p&^^ 






photocopy only if necessa 

return to staff 

do not put in bookdrop 



Parkes, Edmund Alexander 



A Manual of Practical 
Hygiene 




HENRY KIMPTON, 

MEDICAL BOOKSELLER 

82.MI6H HOI BORN , 

LONDON, W.C-- 







* 



, /., 



// V 

yt U ^ *^c ^* *x 



A MANUAL 



PEACTICAL HYGIENE 

PEEPAEED ESPECIALLY FOE USE 
IN THE MEDICAL SEEYICE OF THE AEMY. 



EDMUND A. PAEKES, M.D., F.E.S. 



i 



o 

o 



O 3 M- 

tf 3 J oi ars 



SECOND EDITION. 





LONDON: 



JOHN CHUKCHILL & SONS, NEW BUELINGTON STREET. 



MDCCCLXVI. 

[7 7 /;e /'i^/?^ o/ translation is reserved.] 




I.IH.NIirKGIl : I'UIXl'Kl) BY NE1I.L AND COMPANY. 



TO 



OF 

SIDNEY LOBD HEEBEBT OF LEA, 

THIS IMPERFECT ATTEMPT 
TO AID IN CARRYING OUT ONE OF HIS PLANS 

FOR 
THE BENEFIT OF THE BRITISH SOLDIER 

IS DEDICATED. 



PEEFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. 



WITHOUT greatly increasing the size of this work, much new 
material has been added, and the old matter has been carefully 
revised, though the rapid sale of the first edition has rendered 
any great changes unnecessary. Several fresh wood-cuts, and a 
plate showing more thoroughly the microscopical characters of 
some starches, have been added. For most of the drawings I have, 
as before, to thank Dr Maddox of Woolston. They have been 
drawn on wood or copper by Mr Bagg. 

As in the first edition, I have thought it expedient to use the old 
chemical symbols, notation, and nomenclature, as many of those 
for whom the work is more especially intended are not likely to be 
familiar with the new modes of expression. 



February 1866. 



PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION. 



THE Royal Commission appointed in 1857 to inquire into the 
sanitary condition of the army in England, prepared a new edition 
of the "Queen's Hospital Regulations/' which was published by 
authority in 1859.* 

The new Regulations entirely altered the position of the Army 
Medical Officer. Previously the Army Surgeon had been intrusted 
officially merely with the care of the sick, though he had naturally 
been frequently consulted on the preservation of health and the 
prevention of disease. But the Regulations of 1859 gave him an 
official position in this direction, as he is ordered " to advise com- 
manding officers in all matters affecting the health of troops, 
whether as regards garrisons, stations, camps, and barracks, or diet, 
clothing, drill, duties, or exercises " (p. 7). 

The Commission also recommended, that, to enable the Army 
Surgeon to do this efficiently, an Army Medical School should be 
established, in which the " specialties of military medicine, surgery, 
hygiene, and sanitary science " might be taught to the young medi- 
cal officers entering the army. 

This work is an attempt to carry out the wishes of the Commis- 
sioners as regards sanitary science, by providing a text-book of 
Hygiene, illustrated by examples drawn from army life, for the 
gentlemen attending the Army Medical School. 

The Official Medical Regulations have been taken as the basis of 
the work. I have endeavoured to see what the Regulations demand 
from the medical officers of the army, and what are the duties they 
chiefly have to do, and then to explain how the Regulations are to 
be carried out. In writing this work I have had to deal only with 

* " Regulations for the Duties of Inspectors-General and Deputy- Inspectors- 
General, and for the Duties of Staff and Regimental Medical Officers, &c.," 1859. 
This work is also termed, for shortness, " Medical Regulations." 



Vlll PREFACE. 

one sex, a certain age, and a particular trade ; but as the general 
principles of hygiene' are tolerably fully discussed, I have thought it 
entitled to be called a work on general hygiene. 

The work is divided into two Books ; in the First I have arranged 
the chief subjects of hygiene in what is, for my purpose, the most 
convenient order, and have illustrated them by examples drawn 
from army life. I have also included some other topics, such as 
meteorology and statistics, which it is important medical officers 
should learn. In these several chapters I have thought constantly 
on what would be useful to army surgeons, who are often far from 
all books, or possibility of reference. So that, in some parts, I have 
endeavoured to make the book one of reference, though I have been 
obliged to compress it to the greatest degree. In the Second Book, 
the service of the soldier is more particularly described. 

To enable medical officers to perform the chemical processes re- 
quired in the analyses of water and air, and in the examination of 
food, the. Director-General has recommended, and Lord de Grey 
has been pleased to sanction, the issue of a small box, containing 
sufficient apparatus and reagents for these processes, and this will 
be issued to the several stations on demand. After much considera- 
tion, I have adopted the French weights and measures', as being more 
convenient for volumetric analyses, of which considerable use is 
made. In chemistry the battle of the standards is over, and the 
simplicity of the French weights is such that even those who are 
not at first acquainted with them will, in a very short time, find no 
difficulty in using them. I have made the chemical directions as 
simple as possible, and have thought it best to use the old equiva- 
lents and notation. 

I have to thank my friend, Dr Maddox, for very kindly drawing 
for me all but two of the microscopic objects ; his drawings have 
been very carefully engraved on copper or wood by Mr Bagg. I 
must express my obligations to the Council of the Royal United 
Service Institution for permitting me to use the stone with the 
lithographs of knapsacks, employed in illustration of Dr Maclean's 
paper, published in the 10th volume of the Journal of the Council. 

I have to thank also my friends, Dr Sutherland and Dr Francois 
de Chaumont, for many valuable suggestions. 



CONTENTS. 



INTRODUCTION, . .... xvii 

BOOK I. 

CHAPTER I. 

WATER, ARMY REGULATIONS ON, ..... 1 

SECTION I. Quantity for healthy men, .... 2 

sick men, .... 2 

Estimation of quantity, . . . - 4 

Permanence of supply, 7 

SECTION II. Quality and composition, . . . .7 

Rain water, ...... 8 

Ice and snow, ..... 9 

Spring, well, and river, .... 9 

Summary of drinking water, . . . .15 

Sources of contamination, . . .".... 18 

Characters of good drinking water, . . . 19 

SECTION III. Examination of, ... .20 

Physical, . . 20 

Microscopical, ..... 21 

Chemical, . .... 22 

SECTION IV. Purification of, 38 

Without filtration, .... 39 

With filtration, .... 39 

Storage, ..... 40 

Distribution, . . 42 

Action on lead, . . 43 

Search after Water, ... 45 
Special considerations on the supply of water to soldiers, 45 

SECTION V. Consequences of an insufficient or impure supply, . 47 

Insufficient supply, .... 47 

Impure supply, ..... 49 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER II. 

PAGE 

AIR, ARMY REGULATIONS ON, . . 67 

SECTION I. Quantity for healthy men, . . 68 

sick men, . . 70 

lights, . 70 

SECTION II. Composition, . 71 

SECTION III. Impurities, ... 71 

Suspended matters, 72 

Gaseous substances, 74 

Special impurities in respiration, 74 

in sick rooms, . 76 

in combustion, . . 77 

in sewage decomposition, . 79 

Air of churchyards, . . 79 

of marshes, ... 80 

in the holds of ships, . . . 81 

of mines, ... 81 

SECTION IV. Septic condition of the atmosphere, . 81 

SECTION V. Purification of air by solids, . 82 

by liquids, 83 

by gases, . . 84 

Effect of disinfectants on the specific diseases, . 85 

SECTION VI. Diseases arising from impurities in air, . . 86 

CHAPTER III. 

VENTILATION, ........ 108 

SECTION I. Natural ventilation, . . . . 109 

Diffusion, . . . . . .109 

Action of winds, . . . . .109 

Movement produced by unequal weights, . . 112 
Application of the general statements on natural ventila- 
tion, ...... 113 

Plans of natural ventilation which have been proposed, 113 

SECTION II. Artificial ventilation, . . . .121 

By extraction, . . . . .121 

By propulsion, . . . . .126 

SECTION III. Relative value of natural and artificial ventilation, . 129 

CHAPTER IV. 

EXAMINATION or AIR AND OF THE SUFFICIENCY OF VENTILATION, . 131 

SECTION I. Measurement of cubic space, . . . 131 

SECTION II. Direction of movement of air, . . .133 

Rate of movement, . . . . .133 

SECTION III. Examination of air By the senses, . . . 136 

Microscopical and chemical examination, . . 136 

SECTION IV. Scheme for application of foregoing rules, . . 138 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER V. 

PAGE 

FOOD, . . 139 

SECTION I. General principles of diet, . . . .139 

SECTION II. Food in health, ..... 143 

Total amount required, . . . .113 

Amount of .nitrogen and carbon and salts, . . 144 

nitrogenous and carboniferous substances, 145 

of the fundamental dietetic principles, 147 

Table for calculating diet, . . . .149 

Calculation of English soldier's food, . . 150 

French Soldier's food, . .154 

Prussian soldier's food, . . 155 

Austrian soldier's food, . . 156 

Russian soldier's food, . . 157 

Hindu diet, . . . .157 

SECTION III. Food in sickness, ..... 159 

SECTION IV. Digestibility of food, . . . .160 

SECTION V. Variety, . . . . . .160 

SECTION VI. Diseases connected with food, . . , 161 



CHAPTER VI. 

QUALITY, CHOICE, AND COOKING OF FOOD, AND DISEASES ARISING FROM 

ALTERED QUANTITY, . . . . . .165 

SECTION I. Meat, . . . . . .165 

Inspection of animals, . . . .166 

dead meat, . . .169 

Diseases arising from altered quality, . . 171 

Cooking of meat, . . . .176 

Preservation, . . . . .177 

SECTION II. Wheat, . . . . . .178 

Flour, examination of, . . . .179 

Physical, . . . . . .180 

Chemical, . . . . . .180 

Microscopical, . . . . .182 

Adulterations, . . . . '187 

Cooking of flour, ..... 196 

Biscuit, . . . . . .197 

Bread, ..... 197 

Examination of Bread, Physical, Chemical, Microscopical, 201 

Diseases connected with the quality of flour, . 204 

SECTION III. Barley, . . ... . . 205 

SECTION IV. Oats, ...... 206 

SECTION V. Maize and Rye, ..... 207 

SECTION VI. Rice, .... . 208 

SECTION VII. Millet, Raggy, Buckwheat, Gram, . . . 208 

SECTION IX. Leguminosse, ... . 210 



xii CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

SECTION X. Succulent vegetables, . .212 

SECTION XI. Milk, . .214 

SECTION XII. Butter, . . .220 

SECTION XIII. Cheese, . . 220 

SECTION XIV. Eggs, . . 222 

SECTION XV. Sugars and starches, . . . 223 

Arrowroots, . 223 

Tapioca, ... .224 

Sago, . . 225 

SECTION XVI. Concentrated Foods, . 225 

CHAPTER VII. 

BEVERAGES AND CONDIMENTS, ...... 230 

SECTION I. Alcoholic beverages, .... 230 

Beer, ...... 230 

Wines, ..... 236 

Spirits, ..... 241 

as an article of diet for healthy persons, 242 

SECTION II. Non-alcoholic beverages, .... 250 

Coffee, ...... 280 

Tea, ...... 254 

Cocoa, . . . . 257 

SECTION III. Condiments, ... . . 259 

Vinegar, ...... 259 

Mustard, . . . . .260 

Pepper, ... .262 

Salt, . .264 

SECTION IV. Lemon Juice, ..... 264 

CHAPTER VIII. 

SOILS, ......... 266 

SECTION I. Condition of soils affecting health, . . . 266 

Conformation and elevation, . . . 266 

Vegetation, ..... 267 

Mechanical structure, .... 268 

Chemical composition, . . .270 

SECTION II. General observations on the healthiness of soils, . 273 
SECTION III. Examination of soils, .... 275 

SECTION IV. Rules for choice of site, . .278 

SECTION V. Preparation of site, ... . 279 

CHAPTER IX. 

HABITATIONS, ........ 280 

SECTION I. Barracks, ...... 281 

Home service, . . 282 

In forts and citadels, . . 293 

In hot climates, . . .. 294 

SECTION II. Wooden huts, . . 300 



CONTENTS. 



Xlll 



SECTION III. Tents, 

Encampments, 
SECTION IV. Hospitals, 



PAGE 

302 
306 
308 



CHAPTEE X. 

SEWERAGE METHOD OF REMOVING SEWAGE MATTER, . 
SECTION I. By water, .... 
SECTION II. Removal in substance dry method, 
SECTION III. Mixed method, 
SECTION IV. Sewage deodorants and disinfectants, 
General conclusion, 



321 
321 
327 
330 
330 
332 



CHAPTER XL 

WARMING, 

SECTION I. Degree of warmth, . 
SECTION II. Kinds of warmth, 



333 
333 
335 



CHAPTER XII. 

EXERCISE AND PHYSICAL TRAINING, ..... 338 

SECTION I. Effects of exercise, .... 338 

SECTION II. Amount which should be taken, . . . 344 

SECTION III. Training, ...... 347 

SECTION IV. Gymnastic exercises, .... 349 

SECTION V. Duties of the medical officer in the gymnasium, . 352 

SECTION VI. Drills and marches, .... 354 

SECTION VII. Duties of the medical officer on marches, . . 361 



CLOTHING, 

SECTION 
SECTION 



CHAPTER XIII. 

I. Soldier's kit, 
II. Objects of clothing, 
Materials of clothing, 
Garments, . 



365 
365 
367 
367 
372 



CHAPTER XIV. 

WEIGHT OF THE ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIER'S DRESS AND ACCOUTREMENTS, 382 

SECTION I. Cavalry, ...... 382 

Infantry, ...... 385 

SECTION II. Carriage of the weights, .... 389 

Rifle and bayonet, .... 390 

Ammunition, . . . . .391 

Pack and kit, . . . . . . 392 

Greatcoat and blanket, . . . 395 

Canteen and havresac, .... 395 

SECTION III. Effect on health of the regulation method of carrying 

the weights, ..... 396 



XIV CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER XV. 

PAGE 

METEOROLOGY AND INSTRUMENTS USED IN THE ARMY, . . 400 

SECTION I. Thermometers, ..... 401 
SECTION II. Hygrometers, . . 406 

SECTION III. Barometer, . 411 

SECTION IV. Rain-gauge, . 420 

SECTION V. Evaporation, ..... 422 

SECTION VI. Wind, . .423 

SECTION VII. Clouds, . 426 

SECTION VIII. Ozone, . .426 

SECTION IX. Electricity, . . 427 

SECTION X. Thermometer stand, .... 428 

CHAPTER XVI. 

CLIMATE, DEFINITION OF, ... . 429 

SECTION I. Temperature, . . . . . 430 

SECTION II. Humidity, ..... 434 

SECTION III. Movement of air, . . 435 

SECTION IV. Weight of the air, . . .435 

SECTION V. Composition of the air, .... 440 

Ozone and antozone, . . . 440 

Malaria, . . .441 

SECTION VI. Electrical condition light, . . . 442 

CHAPTER XVII. 

PREVENTION OF SOME OF THE ARMY DISEASES, . , . 443 

SECTION I. The specific diseases, . . . 444 

Paroxysmal fevers, . 444 
Yellow fever, ..... 445 

Cholera, . .448 

Typhus exanthematicus, . 454 

Bubo plague, . . 455 

Typhoid fever, . 455 

Relapsing fever, . 456 

Bilious remittent fever, . .456 

* Cerebro-spinal meningitis, . . . 456 
Eruptive fevers, .... 456 

Erysipelas, ... . 457 

Hospital gangrene, . . .457 

SECTION II. Non-specific diseases, . . . 458 

Dysentery and diarrhoea, . . .458 

Liver diseases, , . . 460 

Insolation, . . 462 

Phthisis, 463 

Scurvy, . . . 463 

Military ophthalmia, . . . 466 

Venereal diseases, . . . 468 



CONTENTS. XV 
CHAPTER XVIII. 

PAGE 

DISPOSAL OF THE DEAD, ...... 474 

Land burial, ..... 474 

Sea burial, ...... 476 

Incremation, . 476 

CHAPTER XIX. 

INDIVIDUAL HYGIENIC MANAGEMENT, . . . . . 477 

CHAPTER XX. 

STATISTICS, ........ 480 

SECTION I. A few elementary points considered, . . 480 

SECTION II. Army statistics, ... . 492 

In peace, . 492 

In war, ...... 494 



BOOK II. 

THE SERVICE OF THE SOLDIER. 

CHAPTER I. 
THE RECRUIT, ..... .497 

Regulation weight and height, .... 497 

Girth of chest, . ... 497 

Age, . . 499 

Best height and weight, ..... 500 

Physical training, ..... 502 

Mental training, ...... 503 

Moral training, . . . . . 503 

Amount of sickness in the first year of service, . . 505 

School for Recruits, ..... 505 

CHAPTER II. 

HOME SERVICE, ........ 506 

SECTION I. Loss of strength by death and invaliding, . . 508 

SECTION II. Loss of service by sickness, . .514 

Causes of sickness, . . . .518 

SECTION III. General conclusions, ... . 522 

CHAPTER III. 

FOREIGN SERVICE, .... . 526 

SECTION I. Mediterranean Stations, .... 526 



XVI 



CONTENTS. 



SECTION I. Gibraltar, .... 

Malta, . ' . 
SECTION II. West Indies, 

Jamaica, 

Trinidad, 

Barbadoes, 

St Lucia, 

British Guiana, 

Bahamas and Honduras, 

SECTION III. Bermuda, .... 
SECTION IV. American Stations, 

Canada, 

Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, 

Newfoundland, 

British Columbia, 
SECTION V. African Stations, . 

St Helena, 

West Coast of Africa, 

Cape of Good Hope, . 

SECTION VI. Mauritius, .... 
SECTION VII. Ceylon, .... 
SECTION VIII. India, 

SECTION IX. China, .... 
SECTION X. Australia, Tasmania, and New Zealand, 

CHAPTER IV. 

SERVICE ON BOARD SHIP, .... 

SECTION I. Transports for healthy troops, 
SECTION II. Transports for sick troops, . 
SECTION III. Hospital ships, 

CHAPTER V. 

SERVICE IN WAR, .... 

SECTION I. Preparation for war during peace, 
SECTION II. Entry on war, 
SECTION III. Actual war, . 

Regulations in war, 
Causes of mortality in war, 
Duties of sanitary officers in war, 
Hospitals in war, 
Regimental, 
Division, 
Field general, 



Flying, 



PAGE 
526 
532 
536 
539 
542 
543 
545 
546 
547 
547 
549 
549 
553 
553 
553 
554 
554 
554 
557 
559 
560 
563 
592 
594 



597 
597 
603 
604 



606 
607 
610 
611 
612 
612 
614 
614 
615 
615 
615 
615 
619 
620 



INTRODUCTION. 



HYGIENE is the art of preserving health ; that is, of obtaining the most perfect 
action of body and mind, during as long a period as is consistent with the 
laws of life. In other words, it aims at rendering growth more perfect, decay 
less rapid, life more vigorous, death more remote. 

This art has been practised from the earliest times. Before Hippocrates, 
there were treatises on hygiene, which that great master evidently embodied 
in his incomparable works. It was then based on what we should now call 
empirical rules viz., simply on observations of what seemed good or bad for 
health. Very early, indeed, the effects of diet and of exercise were carefully 
noticed, and were considered the basis of hygiene.* Hippocrates, indeed, 
appears to have had a clear conception of the relation between the amount of 
food taken, and of the mechanical force produced by it ; at least, he is 
extremely careful in pointing out that there must be an exact balance between 
food and exercise, and that disease results from excess either way. 

The effects on health of different kinds of air, of water, and to some extent 
of soils, were also considered at a very early date ; though naturally the igno- 
rance of chemistry prevented any great advance in this direction. Hippocrates 
summed up the existing knowledge of his time on the six articles, which in 
after-days received the absurd name of the " Non-naturals, "t The six articles 
whose regulation was considered indispensably necessary to the life of man, 
were air, aliment, exercise and rest, sleep and wakefulness, repletion and 
evacuation, the passions and affections of the mind. 

With the exception of the attempts of the alchemists, and of the chemical 
physicians, to discover some agent or drug which might increase or strengthen 
the principle of life,:}! the practice of hygiene remained within the same limits 

* Herodicus, one of the preceptors of Hippocrates, was the first to introduce medicinal 
gymnastics for the improvement of health and the cure of disease ; though gymnastics in train- 
ing for war had been used long before. Plutarch says of him, that labouring under a decay 
which he knew could not be perfectly cured, he was the first who blended the gymnastic art with 
physic, in such a manner as protracted to old age his own life, and the lives of others afflicted 
with the same disease. He was censured by Plato for keeping alive persons with crazy consti- 
tutions. -Mackenzie on Health, p. 78. 

f This title originated in a sentence of Galen, and was introduced into use by the jargon of 
the Peripatetic school. It was employed in all treatises on hygiene for probably nearly 1500 
years. 

It was when chemistry was being rudely studied by the alchemists that an entirely different 
school of hygiene arose. The discovery of chemical agents, and the great effect they produce 
on the body, led to the notion that they could in some way aid the forces of life, and insure a 
prolonged, if not an eternal yoxith, and a life of ages, instead of one of years. This belief, the 

I 



XV111 INTRODUCTION. 

until physiology (the knowledge of the laws of life) began to be studied. 
Hygiene then began to acquire a scientific basis. Still retaining its empirical 
foundation, drawn from observation, it has now commenced to apply the 
physiological discoveries to the improvement of health, and to test the value 
of its own rules by this new light. It is now gradually becoming an art 
based on the science of physiology, with whose progress its future is identified. 

But the art of hygiene has at present still another object. If we had a 
perfect knowledge of the laws of life, and could practically apply this know- 
ledge in a perfect system of hygienic rules, disease would be impossible. 
But at present disease exists in a thousand forms, and the human race lan- 
guishes, and at times almost perishes, under the grievous yoke. The study 
of the causes of disease is strictly a part of physiology,* but it can only be 
carried out by the practical physician, since an accurate identification of the 
diseases is the first necessary step in the investigation of causes. 

The causes being investigated, the art of hygiene then comes in to form 
rules which may prevent the causes or render the frame more fitted to bear 
them ; and as, in the former case, it was the exponent of physiology, in this 
case it becomes the servant of the pathologist. 

Taking the word hygiene in the largest sense, it signifies rules for perfect 
culture of mind and body. It is impossible to dissociate the two. The body 
is affected by every mental and moral action ; the mind is profoundly influ- 
enced by bodily conditions. For a perfect system "of hygiene we must com- 
bine the knowledge of the physician, the schoolmaster, and the priest, and 
must train the body, the intellect, and the moral soul in a perfect and 
balanced order. Then, if our knowledge were exact, and our means of applica- 
tion adequate, we should see the human being in his perfect beauty, as Pro- 
vidence perhaps intended him to be ; in the harmonious proportions and 
complete balance of all parts, in which he came out of his Maker's hands, in 
whose divine image, we are told, he was in the beginning made. 

But is such a system possible 1 

Is there, or will there ever be, such an art, or is the belief that there will 
be, one of those dreams which breathe a blind hope into us, a hope born only 
of our longings, and destined to die of our experience ? And, indeed, when 

natural result of the discovery of new powers, has not yet entirely died out ; and while there 
are some who still look to every fresh agent as possibly containing "the balsam of life," there 
are also still enthusiasts who search the mystic tomes of the alchemists or the Rosicrucians, in 
the faith that, after all, the great secret was really found. It may be worth while to consider 
the idea which underlaid the dreams of the alchemists. Life was looked on as an entity or 
principle, liable to constant waste, and to eventual expenditure. If some agent could be found 
to arrest the waste, to crystallise, as it were, the tissues in their full growth and vigour, decay, 
it was conceived, would be impossible, and youth would be eternal. In other cases, it was 
supposed that the agent would itself contain the principle of life, and therefore would at once 
restore destroyed health, and recall again departed youth. We now know this idea to be wrong 
in every point. The constant decay the alchemists sought to check is life itself, for life itself 
is incessant change, and what we call decay is only a metamorphosis of force. To arrest the 
changes in the body for one single moment would be death, or, short of death, it would be 
lessening of the forces which are the expression of life. Nor is there any hope that the exten- 
sion of the period of vital force can ever be accomplished except by improving the nutrition of 
the tissues. Here, indeed, it is just possible that, in time to come, drugs will aid Hygiene, 
either by better preparing food for the purposes of nutrition, or by removing or preventing those 
chemical changes in the tissues which we call decay. But at present, certainly, no rules can be 
laid down for the use of drugs in hygiene, except in that debateable land which lies between 
hygiene and the practice of medicine, that is, in that uncertain region which we do not like to 
call disease, and yet which is not health. 

* In fact, in the last analysis we see that physiology and pathology are one ; normal and 
abnormal life, regular and irregular growth and decay, must be studied together, just as we see 
that human physiology is imperfect without the study of all the other forms of life, animal and 
vegetable, which are in the world. Separated for convenience, these various studies will finally 
converge. 



INTRODUCTION. XIX 

wo look around us and consider the condition of the world the abundance 
of life, its appalling waste ; the wonderful contrivances of the animal king- 
dom, the apparent indifference with which they are trampled under foot ; the 
divine gift of mind, its awful perversions and alienations ; and when, espe- 
cially, we note the condition of the human race, and consider what it appa- 
rently might be, and what it is ; its marvellous endowments and lofty powers ; 
its terrible sufferings and abasement ; its capacity for happiness, and its cup 
of sorrow ; the heavenly boon of glowing health, and the thousand diseases 
and painful deaths, he must indeed be gifted with sublime endurance or un- 
dying faith, who can still believe that out of this chaos order can come, or out 
of this suffering happiness and health. 

In the scheme of Providence it may not be meant that man. shall be 
healthy. Disease of mind and of body may be the cross he has to bear ; or it 
may be the evil against which he is to struggle, and whose shackles he is 
finally to unloose. The last disease will disappear, we may believe, only when 
man is perfect; and as in the presence of the Saviour all disease was healed, 
so, before perfect virtue, sorrow and suffering shall fade away. Whether the 
world is ever to see such a consummation, no man can say; but as ages roll 
on, hope does in some measure grow. In the midst of all our weaknesses, and 
all our many errors, we are certainly gaining knowledge, and that knowledge 
tells us, in no doubtful terms, that the fate of man is in his own hands. 

It is undoubtedly true that we can, even now, literally choose between 
health or disease ; not, perhaps, always individually, for the sins of our fathers 
may be visited upon us, or the customs of our life and the chains of our civi- 
lisation and social customs may gall us, or even our fellow-men may deny us 
health, or the knowledge which leads to health. But as a race, man holds his 
own destiny, and can choose between good and evil ; and as time unrolls the 
scheme of the world, it is not too much to hope that the choice will be for 
good. 

Looking only to the part of hygiene which concerns the physician, a perfect 
system of rules of health would, I conceive, be best arranged in an orderly 
series of this kind. 

The rules would commence with the regulation of the mother's health while 
bearing her child, so that the growth of the new being should be as perfect as 
possible. Then, after birth, the rules (differing for each sex at certain times) 
would embrace three epochs ;* of growth (including infancy and youth) ; of 
maturity, when for many years the body remains apparently stationary ; of 
decay, when, without actual disease, though, doubtless, in consequence of some 
chemical changes, molecular feebleness and death commence in some part or 
other, forerunning general decay and death. 

In these several epochs of his life, the human being would have to be 
considered 

1st, In relation to the natural conditions which surround him, and which 
are essential for life, such as the air he breathes ; the water he drinks ; his 
food, the source of all bodily an4 mental acts ; the soil which he moves on, 
and the sun which warms and lights him, &c. ; in fact, in relation to nature 
at large. 

3d, In his social relations, as subjected from his own acts to a variety of 
influences, as a member of a community with certain customs, trades, condi- 
tions of dwellings, clothing, &c. ; subjected to social and political influences, 
sexual relations, &c. 

* First expressly noted by Galen. 



XX INTRODUCTION. 

3d, In his capacity as an independent being, having within himself sources 
of action, in thoughts, feelings, desires, personal habits, all of which affect 
health, and which require self-regulation and control. 

Even now, incomplete as hygiene necessarily is, such a work would, if 
followed, almost change the face of the world. But would it be followed 1 

In some cases the rules of hygiene could not be followed, however much 
the individual might desire to do so. For example, pure air is a necessity for 
health ; but an individual may have little control over the air which surrounds 
him, and which he must draw into his lungs. He may be powerless to pre- 
vent other persons from contaminating his air, and thereby striking at the 
very foundation of his health and happiness. Here, as in so many other cases 
which demand regulation of the conduct of individuals towards each other, 
the State steps in for the protection of its citizens, and enacts rules which shall 
be binding upon all. Hence arises what is now termed " State Medicine," a 
matter of the greatest importance. The fact of " State Medicine" being pos- 
sible, marks an epoch in which some sanitary rules receive a general consent, 
and indicates an advancing civilisation. Fear has been expressed lest State 
medicine should press too much on the individual, and should too much lessen 
the freedom of personal action. This, however, is not likely, as long as the 
State acts cautiously, and only on well-assured scientific grounds, and as long 
as an unshackled Press discusses with freedom every step.* 

There are, however, some cases in which the State cannot easily interfere, 
though the individual may be placed under unfavourable hygienic conditions 
by the action of others. For example, in many trades, the employed are sub- 
jected to danger from the carelessness, or avarice, or ignorance of the employers. 
Every year the State is, however, very properly, more and more interfering in 
this matter, and shielding the workman against the dangers which an ignorant 
or careless master brings on him. 

But in other cases the State can hardly interfere with effect; and the 
growth of sanitary knowledge, and the pressure of public opinion, alone can 
work a cure, as, for example, in the case of the dwellings of our poorer classes. 
In many parts of the country the cottages are unfit for human beings ; in 
many of our towns, the cupidity of builders runs up houses of the most 

* A watchful care over the health of the people, and a due regulation of matters which con- 
cern their health, is certainly one of the most important functions of Government. The fact 
that, in modern times, the subject of hygiene generally, and State Medicine in particular, has 
commenced to attract so much the public attention, is undoubtedly owing to the application of 
statistics to public health. It is impossible for any nation, or for any Government, to remain 
indifferent when, in figures which admit of no denial, the national amount of health and happi- 
ness, or disease and suffering, is determined. The establishment of the Registrar-General's 
office in 1838, and the commencement of the system of accurately recording births and deaths, 
will hereafter be found to be, as far as the happiness of the people is concerned, one of the 
most important events of our time. We owe a nation's gratitude to the Registrar-General for 
the persistence with which he has used his official position for the public good, and to his able 
coadjutors, especially to him to whose sagacity the chief fruits of the inquiry are due, to 
William Farr. 

Another action of the Government in our day was scarcely less important. It is impossible 
to overrate the value of the Government Inquiry into the Health of Towns, and of the country 
generally, commenced nearly a quarter of a century ago by Edwin Chadwick, Southwood Smith, 
Neil Arnott, Sutherland, Guy, Toynbee, and others, and which has, in fact, been continued 
ever since, and is now vigorously carried on by the official successor of these pioneers, the medi- 
cal officer to the Privy Council, Mr Simon. Consequent on this movement came the appoint- 
ment of medical officers of health to the different towns and parishes. The reports published 
by many of these gentlemen (Letheby, Dundas Thomson, Buchanan, Lankester, Hillier, and 
many others), have greatly advanced the subject, and have done much to diffuse a knowledge of 
hygiene among the people, and at the same time to extend and render precise our knowledge of 
the conditions of national health. When the effect of all these researches and measures developes 
itself, it will be seen that even great wars and political earthquakes are really nothing in com- 
parison with these silent social changes. 



INTRODUCTION. XXI 

miserable structure, for which there are unhappily no lack of applicants ; or 
masters oblige their men to work in rooms, or to follow plans which are most 
detrimental to health. 

But even in such cases it will, I believe, be always found that self-interest 
would really dictate the course which is one of the foremost rules of religion, 
viz., that we should do for our neighbours as for ourselves. Analyse the effect 
of such selfishness and carelessness as I have referred to on the nation at large, 
and we shall find that the partial gain to the individual is far more than 
counterbalanced by the injury to the State, by the discontent, recklessness, 
and indifference produced in the persons who suffer, and which may have a 
disastrous national result. 

In many cases, again, the employer of labour finds that, by proper sanitary 
care of his men, he reaps at once an advantage in better and more zealous 
work, in fewer interruptions from ill health, &c., so that his apparent outlay 
is more than compensated. 

This is shown in the strongest light by the army. The State employs a 
large number of men, whom it places under its own social and sanitary con- 
ditions. It removes from them much of the self-control with regard to 
hygienic rules which other men possess, and is therefore bound by every 
principle of honest and fair contract to see that these men are in no way in- 
jured by its system. But more than this : it is as much bound by its self- 
interest. It has been proved over and over again that nothing is so costly in 
all ways as disease, and that nothing is so remunerative as the outlay which 
augments health, and in doing so, augments the amount and value of the 
work done. 

It was the moral argument, as well as the financial one, which led Lord 
Herbert to devote his life to the task of doing justice to the soldier, of in- 
creasing the amount of his health, and moral and mental training, and, in so 
doing, of augmenting not only his happiness, but the value of his services to 
the country. And by the side of Lord Herbert in this work was one whose 
name will ever be dear to the country, and whose life, ever since that memor- 
able winter at Scutari in 1855, has been given up entirely to the attempt to 
improve the condition of the soldier. 

This book has been written to assist in carrying out one of Lord Herbert's 
plans, and in accordance with his wish, and with that of Lord De Grey, his 
friend, coadjutor, and successor. 

It has, therefore, been sketched on a narrower basis than the longer treatise 
indicated above, which would have to deal with both sexes, all ages, and 
various trades and conditions. 

Although, however, as dealing with Military Hygiene, and drawing its chief 
examples from the soldier's life, it is a work on Army sanitation, it yet in- 
cludes the general principles of hygiene applicable to all men principles 
which, though here stated necessarily in the briefest and barest way, are, I am 
persuaded, fraught with benefit to all men, if they are properly interpreted and 
faithfully applied. 



CORRECTIONS AND ADDITIONS. 



Page 27, line 21 for " 3 grains per gallon of chlorine from organic matter 
cause some blackening" read, 3 grains per gallon of organic matter cause 
some blackening. 

Page 96, line 28 for " Dr Henry Cormac" read, Dr Henry MacCormac. 

Page 138, line 26 -for " sulphide of ammonia" read, sulphide of am- 
monium. 

Page 170 Examination of the pig's flesh for Trichinae. Since this was 
written, the so-called Eainey's corpuscles have acquired great interest, as they 
seem to be exceedingly common in the flesh of cattle and sheep as well as in 
pigs. -They have been frequently found in the flesh of animals dead of cattle 
plague, but are not peculiar to that disease. They lie within the sarcolemma, 
are oval when young, and become spindle-shaped when old, and vary in 
size from -g^Q-th of an inch to Jth of an inch; and Dr Beale, who has lately 
carefully examined them, thinks that the little bodies or nodules contained 
in the cyst increase by division. They do not irritate that is to say, they 
do not cause thickening or growth of the muscles in which they lie. These 
bodies are presumed to be of an animal nature, but whether they are 
immature forms of any of the well-known entozba, is yet uncertain. 

Page 331 Carbolic acid as a disinfectant. It appears that another tar 
acid cresylic acid which is contained in large quantity in the impure carbolic 
acid of commerce, is even more powerful than pure carbolic acid. Its power 
of arresting decomposition is very great. It is also cheaper than carbolic 
acid. The addition of a little impure carbolic, or cresylic acid, to lime, makes 
a good imitation of M'Dougall's powder. 



BOOK I. 

CHAPTEE I. 
WATEK. 

ARMY REGULATIONS ON THE SUBJECT OF WATER. 

THIS subject is referred to in the following places of the Medical Regulations 
for the Army (1859) : 

Barracks. At page 29, the Inspector, or Deputy Inspector-General, is 
required to see that " the water-supply is good and abundant, that wells are 
properly covered, and that there is no soakage from cesspools or drains into 
them ;" and also, that there " are lavatories and baths for the use of the men, 
and that bathing-parades are sufficiently frequent." 

At pages 78, 79, the Surgeon, or Assistant-Surgeon, in charge of a regi- 
ment is ordered " at least once a week to inspect all lavatories and baths," and 
also " to examine the quality and amount of drinking water, and the protec- 
tion of wells, &c., from soakage of latrines, cesspools, &c. 

Camps and Stations. The same duties are to be carried out in camps and 
stations (p. 81). 

General Hospitals. The " Sanitary Officer " who is appointed in each 
general hospital, or the principal medical officer, if no sanitary officer is 
appointed, is directed, at p. 43, to examine the water-supply. 

Temporary Hospitals. Before any building is selected as an hospital, it is 
directed (p. 39) that the water-supply be examined. 

Field Service. The " Sanitary Officer " examines into the water-supply of 
all buildings selected, and of all spots chosen for encampments (p. 83), and 
points out " the best sources of supply of water, and the precautions required 
in storing, purifying, and distributing water for use" (p. 131). 

Transport Ships. The same duties are to be performed by the principal 
medical officer at the port of embarkation, and by the surgeon in charge during 
the voyage (p. 85). 

Foreign Stations. The medical officer in charge of troops makes, monthly, 
a report on the sanitary condition, which includes, of course, the quantity and 
quality of the water-supply (p. 93). 

Annual Reports. The same topics are to be again discussed in the Annual 
Reports, " the sources, quality, and quantity of the water-supply ; its whole- 
someness, and the means of purification used," being the points especially 
referred to (p. 107). 

The care with which these regulations are drawn up sufficiently indicates 
the importance justly attached to this subject. 

A 



'2 WATER. 

The points, therefore, which the medical officer must include in his reports 
are these : 

1. The quantity of water per head per diem ; its sufficiency or the reverse. 

2. Its quality, including its physical and its microscopical characters, and 
its chemical composition. 

3. Its collection, storage, and distribution. 

4. The condition of tanks, cisterns, pipes, &c. 

5. In the field the medical officer may be called on to indicate the possible 
sources of water, to estimate the quantity attainable from any source, and to 
determine the quality. 

SECTION I. 
SUB-SECTION I. 1. QUANTITY OP WATER FOR HEALTHY MEN. 

A proper quantity of water must be supplied in a convenient way, and 
arrangements must be made for the removal of dirty water. 

Amount required for drinking. The regulations for transport ships order 
that each man shall receive 6 pints daily out of, and 8 pints in, the tropics, 
for drinking and cooking. In emigrant ships the usual allowance is 8 pints 
per adult daily. 

The exact amount of water taken by an adult in 24 hours is, on an average, 
from J a fluid ounce to r 6 o-ths or ^ths of an ounce for each pound avoir, of 
body weight. A man weighing 1401bs. will therefore take about 70 to 90 fluid 
ounces daily, and in ordinary English diet about 20 to 30 ounces of this are 
taken in the so-called solid food, and the remainder is drunk as liquid of some 
kind. But the amount taken varies within wide limits in different circum- 
stances, and from individual peculiarities ; some men take only 60 ounces 
others as much as 120, or even more. The 6 pints given on board ship are 
therefore enough, if there is no great loss from cooking. There is seldom any 
question of deficiency of water for drinking, but it should be seen that it is 
readily procurable at proper times. 

During great exertion there is so great a loss of water from the skin that 
more must be drunk ; and it is of great importance that water should be readily 
procurable, and should be taken in small quantities frequently to replace the 
loss. This should be particularly attended to on marches. (See EXERCISE.) 

Amount required for cleansing the person, clothes, and habitations. The 
smallest amount for personal and clothes washing, and for share of house 
washing, is 4 gallons per head daily. If perfect cleanliness is to be secured, 
and if baths are taken, at least 16 gallons per head are required. A general 
bath for an adult requires from 36 to 70 gallons ; a shower-bath, at least 6 
gallons; a hip-bath, 10 to 14 gallons. 

Amount required for Sewers. The fall and make of sewers, and the amount 
of rainfall, influence this. If 16 gallons are provided for domestic purposes, 
9 more should be added for sewers, or in other words, a total of 25 gallons 
per head per diem should pass into sewers in addition to rainfall.* In a 
question of sewage drainage for a town or station, the amount of available 
water at all times of the year becomes a most important question. The 
amount for a water-closet has not been determined, and varies with different 
closets. At Netley Hospital, with Jenning's closets, which require a good 
deal of water, it is 10 gallons per head daily. 

* This was the quantity which Mr Brunei informed me some years ago he considered should 
be provided when it was very important to fix the smallest necessary amount, on the occasion 
of the erection of an hospital in Turkey diiring the Crimean War. 



QUANTITY. 

Amount for Public Baths. If these are largely used, a much greater quan- 
tity is necessary than 16 gallons per head, but no exact statement can be 
made. The enormous baths of Ancient Borne required an amount so great 
that at least 300 gallons per head per diem must have been supplied. 

Amount for Trades and Manufactures. This will of course vary greatly. 
In 1852, in Manchester, the supply for trade purposes alone was about 10 
gallons per head per diem. In Glasgow, in 1852, it was about 7 to 10 gallons. 
In Liverpool, in 1862, about 4 gallons were taken for trades. 

Amount required for Animals. Sometimes a medical officer may have to 
reckon how much water must be obtained for animals. A horse drinks from 
8 to 12 gallons daily, and ought to have 3 or 4 more for washing; a cow or 
small ox drinks about 6 to 8 gallons ; a sheep or a pig, J to 1 gallon. 

Of late years the total supply of water to towns has been large, and is now 
being greatly increased. 

Per head daily. 
In 1852. In 1862. 

Manchester received . 20 gallons. 

Glasgow . . 35 50 gallons. 

Edinburgh . 30 

Liverpool . 22 30 

In 1857, London received 32 gallons, and in 1862 about 50 gallons, per 
head daily. 

In 1865, Southampton received 35 gallons per head in the summer and 26 
in the winter. 

In 1857, the average supply to 14 English towns of second-rate magnitude 
was 24 gallons ; the largest supply was 50 ; the smallest 14 per head daily.* 

New York receives about 300 gallons per head. 

Ancient Imperial Eome received from 300 to 340 gallons per head daily ; 
a large share of this must have been for the supply of the magnificent baths. 

In estimating the amount of water furnished to a town by a water company, 
the usual mode of reckoning is to divide the quantity issued in 24 hours by 
the population. But animals are left out of the account. In some cases, as 
in cavalry stations, it becomes of importance to state in the Eeport the num- 
ber of horses, and to deduct the quantity required for them from the total 
quantity, before calculating what amount is furnished per man daily. 

In drawing up the Eeport the medical officer should distinguish between 
the different uses of water. 

2. QUANTITY OF WATER FOR SICK MEN. 

For hospitals a much larger quantity must be provided, as there is so much 
more bathing and washing. If baths are largely used, and their use is daily 
increasing, the amount of water must be practically unlimited. But from 
40 to 50 gallons per head daily is the least that should be used in a good 

* Professor Rankine gives the following table (Civil Engineering, 1862, p. 731) : 

Gallons per clay per head. 
Least. Greatest. Average. 

Used for domestic purposes, : . . . 7 15 10 

Washing streets, extinguishing fires, supplying ) o o o 

fountains, . . . . . . .] * 

Allowance for trade and waste, .... 7 7 7 

Total in non-manufacturing towns, . 17 25 20 

Additional demand in manufacturing towns, . 10 10 10 

Total in manufacturing towns, . . 27 35 30 

A2 



WATEE. 



hospital, and this, as far as imperfect estimates permit me to state it, is ex- 
pended as follows : 

FO of C kitchen, inClUding deanSing } 2to * gallons per head daily. 
For personal washing, baths, ) 1Q 

&c., . . . _ 1 18 to 20 

^For laundry washing, . . 5 to 6 

For wasliing and cleansing of ) o + a 

hospitals and utensils, . J ' 

For water-closets, . . 10 



40 to 46 
But it would be very desirable to have more precise data as to these quantities. 

SUB-SECTION II. ESTIMATION OF THE AMOUNT OF WATER YIELDED 
BY DIFFERENT SOURCES.* 

The medical officer may sometimes be called upon to calculate the amount 
of water derived from the several sources. 

Rain. The amount of water given by rain can be easily calculated, if two 
points are known viz., the amount of rainfall, and the area of the receiving 
surface. The rainfall can only be determined by a rain-gauge (the mode of 
constructing which is given in the chapter on PRACTICAL METEOROLOGY) ; the 
area of the receiving surface must be measured. 

Supposing that it be known that the rainfall amounts to 24 inches per 
annum, and the area of the receiving surface (say the roof of a house) is 500 
square feet ; 

Multiply the area by 144 (number of square inches in 1 square foot), to 
bring it into square inches, and multiply this by the rainfall. The product 
gives the number of cubic inches of rain which fall on the house-top in a year, 
or in any time the rainfall of which is known. This number, if divided by 
277-274, or multiplied by '003607, will give the number of gallons which 
the roof of the house will receive in a year (viz., in this case 6232 gallons) ; 
or if it is wished to express it in cubic feet, the number of cubic inches must 
be divided by 1728 (number of cubic inches in a cubic foot), or multiplied 
by -00058. 

To calculate the receiving surface of the roof of a house, it is not necessary 
to take into account the slope of the roof. All that is required, is to ascertain 
the area of the flat space actually covered by the roof. The joint areas of the 

* The following are some useful measures and weights of water (at 60 Fahr.) : 



1 cubic foot of pure water, 



1 gallon, 



1 imperial pint, 

i " '>' 

1 imperial ounce, 

1 cubic inch, 

100 cubic inches, 

1 French litre, 

1 gallon, 

1 ton, 

1 Ib. avoir., 



1728 cubic inches. 
= 6-2355 gallons (say 6-23). 

weighs 62-351bs. avoir, at 62F. ; and this 
is the pressure of a cubic foot of 
water on each square foot. 
= 277-274 cubic inches, or 0-1604 

cubic feet. 

weighs 70, 000 grains, or 10 Ibs. at 60Fahr. 
== 34-65923 cubic inches (say 34-66). 

weighs 8750 grains. 

= 1-733 cubic inches, 

weighs 437*5 grains, 
weighs 252-458 grains, 
weighs 57'7 ounces (avoir.) 
= 0-2200767 gallons. 

= 61-027 cubic inches. 

= 4-5434 litres (say 4'54). 

= 35-84 cubic ft., or 224 gallons. 

= -000446 = tons. 



QUANTITY. 



ground-floor rooms will be something less than the area of the roof, which 
also covers the thickness of the walls and the eaves. 

In most English towns the amount of roof space for each person cannot be 
estimated higher than 60 square feet ; and in some poor districts, is much 
less. Taking the rainfall in all England at 30 inches, and assuming that all 
is saved, and that there is no loss from evaporation, the receiving surface for 
each person would give 940 gallons, or not quite 3 gallons a-day. But as few 
town houses have any reservoirs, this quantity runs in great part to waste in 
urban districts. In the country it is an important source of supply, being 
stored in cisterns or water-butts. If, instead of the roof of a house, the 
receiving surface be a piece of land, the amount may be calculated in the 
same way.* It must be understood, however, that this is the total amount 
reaching the ground ; all of this will not be available ; some will sink into 
the ground, and some will evaporate ; the quantity lost in this way will vary 
with the soil and the season from one-half to seven-eighths. To facilitate these 
calculations, tables have been constructed by engineers, and the following por- 
tion of a table from Beardmoret will give the amount per acre. 

Discharges due to Rainfall (if the annual rainfall be equally distributed 

over the year}. 



Rain per 
Annum. 


Cubic Feet per Minute. 


Cubic Feet per Diem. 


Gallons per Diem. 


Inches. 


On 1 Square 
Acre. 


On 1 Square 
Mile. 


On 1 Square 
Acre. 


On 1 Square 
Mile. 


On 1 Acre. 


On 1 Square 
Mile. 


1 


0-006901 


4-41 


9-93 


6,355 


61-9 


39,622 


2 


0-013802 


8-83 


19-87 


12,720 


123-8 


79,245 


4 


0-027604 


17-66 


39-75 


25,440 


257-6 


158,491 


6 


0-041406 


26-50 


59-62 


38,160 


371-4 


237,736 


8 


0-055208 


35-33 


79-50 


50,880 


495-2 


316,982 


10 


0-069011 


44-16 


99-37 


63,600 


619-0 


396,228 



All other quantities in the same proportion. 

Thirty inches of rain annually give 677,805 gallons per acre. One inch of 
rain delivers 4*676 gallons on every square yard, or 22,633 gallons (101 tons 
by weight) on each square acre. In estimating the annual yield of water 
from rainfall, and the yield at any one time, we ought to know 
The greatest annual rainfall, 
The least, 
The average, 

The period of the year when it falls, and 
The length of the rainless season. 

It must also be remembered that the amount of rainfall differs very greatly 
even in places near together. 

Springs, Rivers. It will often be a matter of great importance to de- 
termine the yield of springs and small rivers, as a body of men may have to 
be placed for some time in a particular spot, and no engineering opinion, per- 
haps, can be obtained. 

A spring is measured most easily, by receiving the water into a vessel of 
known capacity, and timing the rate of filling. The spring should be opened 



9 square feet 
4840 square yards 
640 square acres 



1 square yard. 
1 square acre. 
1 square mile. 



t Manual of Hydrology, p. 61. 



6 



WATEE. 



up if necessary, and the vessel should be of large size. The vessel may be 
measured either by filling it first by means of a known (pint or gallon) 
measure, or by gauging it. If it be round or square, its capacity can be at 
once known by measuring it, and using the rules laid down in the chapter 
for measuring the cubic amount of air in rooms. The capacity of the vessel 
in cubic feet may be brought into gallons if desirable, by multiplying by 
6 '2 3. If a tub or cask only be procurable, and if there is no pint or gallon 
measure at hand, the following rules may be useful : 

1. The Excise method of gauging a round guile-tun. Take cross diameters 
of the tun in the middle of every 10 inches, from the bottom upwards; i.e., 
measure the first diameters at 5 inches from the bottom, the second at 15, 
the third at 25, &c. Take half the sum of each two for mean diameters. 
Divide the square of the first mean diameter by 35 3 '04, and multiply by 10; 
the product gives the contents of the lowest 10 inches. Find the contents of 
each successive 10 inches in the same way, and add the whole together. The 
result will give the contents in imperial gallons. 

2. Mule applicable to the majority of casks. Take the bung diameter, the 
head diameter, and the length of the cask. Square the bung diameter, and 
multiply by 39. Square the head diameter, and multiply by 25. Add the 
products together, and multiply by 26. Multiply result by the length of the 
cask. Either multiplying this last number by '000031473, or dividing by 
31773-244, will give the contents in imperial gallons.* 

Where it is required to ascertain the yield of any small water-course with 
some nicety, it is the practice of engineers to dam up the whole stream, and 
convey the water by some artificial channel of known dimensions. 

1. A wooden trough of a certain length, in which the depth of water and 
the time which a float takes to pass from one end to the other is measured. 

2. A sluice of known size, in which the difference of level of the water 
above and below the sluice is measured, t 

3. A weir formed by a plank set on edge, over which the water flows in a 
thin sheet, and the difference of level is measured between the top of the plank 
and the surface of the still water above. Then by means of a table the amount 
of water delivered per minute is read off. The weir must be formed of very 
thin board, and be perfectly level ; a plumb-line has generally to be used.^ 



* Nesbit's Practical Mensuration, 1859 (p. 309). 

t Discharge of water through a sluice. Multiply breadth of opening by the height ; this 
gives the area of the sluice. 

Discharge = area, multiplied by five times the square root of head of water in feet. The head 
of water is the difference of level of the water above and below the dam, if the sluice be entirely 
under the lower level ; or the height of the upper level above the centre of the opening, if the 
sluice be above the lower level. 

J Discharge of water over a weir 1 foot in length. If the weir is more or less than a foot, 
multiply the quantity in the table opposite the given depth by the length of the weir in feet, or 
decimals of a foot. 

Depth falling Discharge per 

over, inches. minute. 

1-70 cubic feet. 

1 .. 4-82 
U 8-84 

2 . 13-63 

49-84 
56-86 
66-45 
75-19 



84-56 
93-93 



Depth falling 
over, inches. 
91 



9* 
10 



Discharge per 
minute. 

19-70 cubic feet. 

26-62 

33-22 

40-71 
105 '22 
116-72 
127-37 
138-88 



150-22 
161-78 



Thus, if the weir measure 1 foot, and the depth of water falling over be 2 inches, the delivery 
is read at once, viz., 13-63 cubic feet, or 84-9 gallons per minute. If it be 4J feet, the number 
13-63 must be multiplied by 4-5, &c. 



PERMANENCE OF SUPPLY. 7 

The same object may, however, be attained with sufficient accuracy for the 
purposes of the medical officer by selecting a portion of the stream where the 
channel is pretty uniform for a length of, say not less than 12 or 15 yards, 
and in the course of which there are no eddies. Take the breadth and the 
average depth in three or four places, to obtain the sectional area. Then, 
dropping in a chip of wood, or other light object, notice how long it takes to 
float a certain distance over the portion of channel chosen. From this can be 
got the surface velocity per second, which is greater, of course, than the bottom 
or the mean velocity. Take four-fifths of the surface velocity (being nearly 
the proportion of mean to surface velocity), and multiply by the sectional 
area. The result will be the yield of the stream per second. 

It may sometimes be worth while, if labour be at hand, to remove some of 
the irregularities of the channel, or even to dig a new one across the neck of 
a bend in the course of the stream. 

The yield of a spring or small river should be determined several times, 
and at different periods of the day. 

Wells. The yield of wells can only be known by pumping out the water 
as far as can be done, and noticing the length of time required for refilling. 
In cases of copious flow of water, a steam-engine is necessary to make any 
impression ; but, in other cases, pumping by hand or horse labour may be 
sufficient perceptibly to depress the water, and then, if the quantity taken out 
be measured, and the time taken for refilling the well be noted, an approxi- 
mate estimate can be formed of the yield. 

SUB-SECTION III. PERMANENCE OF SUPPLY. 

It is obvious that the permanence of the supply of a spring or small stream 
may often be of the greatest moment in the case of an encampment, or in the 
establishment of a permanent station. 

In the first place, evidence should, when available, be obtained. If no evi- 
dence can be got, and if the amount and period of rain be not known, it is 
almost impossible to arrive at any safe conclusion. The country which forms 
the gathering ground for the springs or rivers should be considered. If there 
be an extensive background of hills, the springs towards the foot of the hills 
will probably be permanent. In a flat country the permanency is doubtful, 
unless there be some evidence from the temperature of the spring that the 
water comes from some depth. In limestone regions springs are often fed from 
subterranean reservoirs, caused by the gradual solution of the rocks by the 
water charged with carbonic acid ; and such springs are very permanent. In 
the chalk districts there are few springs or streams, on account of the porosity 
of the soil, unless at the point the level be considerably below that of the 
country generally. The same may be said of the sandstone formations, both 
old and new ; but deep wells in the sandstone often yield largely, as the per- 
meable rocks form a vast reservoir. In the granitic and trap districts, small 
streams are liable to great variations, unless fed from lakes ; springs are more 
permanent when they exist, being perhaps fed from large collections or lochs. 



SECTION II. 
SUB-SECTION I. 1. QUALITY AND COMPOSITION. 

The medical officer should next state the source of the supply, viz., rain, 
snow, ice, springs, wells (shallow, deep, artesian), river ; distillation. A few 
words on the composition of water from these sources may be useful. 



WATER. 



1. RAIN. 

In passing through the atmosphere, the rain becomes highly aerated (from 
3 to 30 cubic cents per litre), the oxygen is found in larger proportions than 
in atmospheric air, reaching from 32 per cent, to 38 of the total amount of 
gas. Carbonic acid constitutes about 2J to 3 per cent, of the total amount 
of gas. In addition, rain water dissolves or carries down many substances 
met with in the air, and may contain small quantities of any or all of the 
following substances : 

Carbonate of ammonia. 

Nitric acid, especially in summer (Bineau) ; and 

Nitrate of ammonia in stormy weather (Schonbein). 

when passing through the air of coal-burning cities. 

Sulphurous acid, The rain water is then distinctly acid. Also through 
Sulphuric acid, ] the air of certain manufacturing places, as Swansea 

(copper works). 

p, ,. . , # ( free in moist sea air and in the neighbourhood of 
p oric aci , j cer tain manufactories, especially carbonate of soda 
Hydrochloric acid, j , 

Sulphuretted hydrogen, free or combined (Marchand). 

Chloride of sodium, which may even amount to as much as 0*02 grammes 

per litre, or 1 -4 grains per gallon,t but is generally in much smaller 

quantity. 

Chloride of potassium and calcium in traces. 
Carbonate of lime which may amount to O'OOT grammes per litre, or 0'49 

grains per gallon.^ 
Sulphate of lime which may reach 0'005 grammes per litre, or 0*35 

grains per gallon, or even more. 
Iron, alumina, silica, phosphate of lime, carbon, pollen of flowers, &c., 

carried down mechanically. 

A trace of nitrogenous organic matter is very common, and has amounted 
to as much as 0*008 grammes per litre, or 0'56 grains per gallon (Bertels) ; 
but in this case it cannot but be suspected that the receiving surface or pipes 
must have been the source. In Manchester, Angus Smith found 0'34 grains 
in 100,000 grains of rain. Nitrate of silver receives a red tint from the 
organic matter, and a precipitate falls which contains silver (Eobinet). 

The total amount of solids (the mean of the analyses of five observers being 
taken) contained in rain water is 0'032 grammes per litre, or 2 '24 grains 
per gallon. The largest amount recorded is '05 09 grammes per litre, or 3 '5 
grains per gallon. 

Iodine and bromine do not appear to be constituents, as stated by Chatin, 
or are very uncommon. (Luca.) 

' Occasionally rain water contains microscopic plants of the lowest order, 
such as the Protococcus pluvialis,\\ a protophyte which, like most of its order, 
decomposes carbonic acid, and liberates oxygen. 

Eain collected in the country is purer than that collected in towns ; it con- 
tains much less ammonia and much less sulphurous acid. In Paris, Boussin- 

* Barral, " Chemical News," December 1860, p. 310. 

t Meyrac quoted by Moleschott, Phys. der Nahrungsmittel, 2d edition, p. 203. 
Bertels, ibid. 

Brandes, Bertels, Barral, Marchand, and Filhol. Quoted by Moleschott, Phys. des 
Nahrungsmittel, 2d edition, p. 203. 

|] Carpenter on the Microscope, 3d edition, p. 258. 



SOURCES. 9 

gault found per litre 0'003 grammes of ammonia, and Bineau in Lyons found 
no less than 0'03 grammes per litre, or 2'1 grains per gallon. 

Eain also often becomes very impure from taking up substances from the 
receiving surface on which it falls, and it also often carries down portions of 
leaves, &c., into the pipes and reservoirs, which slowly dissolve in it. 

Disadvantages and advantages of Rain as a Source of Supply. The uncer- 
tainty of the rainfall from year to year, the length of the dry season in many 
countries, and the large size of the reservoirs which are then required, are dis- 
advantages. On the other hand, its purity and its great aeration make it 
both healthy and pleasant. The greatest benefits have resulted in many cases 
(especially in some of the West Indian islands) from the use of rain instead 
of spring or well water, which is often largely impregnated with earthy 
salts. In all places where the spring or well water is thus bad, as in the 
neutral ground at Gibraltar, rain water should be substituted. So also it has 
been suggested that in outbreaks of cholera anywhere, the rain water is less 
likely to become contaminated with sewage matters than wells or springs, 
into which organic matters often find their way in an unaccountable manner. 

2. ICE AND SNOW WATER. 

In freezing, water becomes much purer, losing a large portion, sometimes 
the whole of its saline contents. Even carbonate and sulphate of lime are 
thus got rid of. The air is at the same time expelled. Ice water is thus 
tolerably pure, but heavy and non-aerated. Snow water contains the salts of 
rain water- with the exception of rather less ammonia. Chatin (whose ex- 
periments are doubtful) found only one-tenth the quantity of iodine. The 
amount of carbonic acid and air is very small. 

There has long been an opinion that snow water is unwholesome, but this 
is based on no reliable observations. In Northern Europe, however, the poorer 
classes have the habit of taking the snow lying about their dwellings, and as 
this is often highly impure with substances thrown out from the house, this 
water may be unwholesome. It has been conjectured that the spread of 
cholera in the Russian winter in 1832, was owing to the use of such snow 
water contaminated by excretions. 

3. DEW 

Has occasionally been a source of supply to travellers in sterile regions in 
South Africa and Australia, or on board ship. It is best collected by expos- 
ing large surfaces of wool, and wringing out frequently. Life may be thus 
supported. 

4. SPRING, WELL, AND RIVER WATER. 

The rain falling on the ground partly evaporates, partly runs off, and partly 
sinks in. The relative amounts vary with configuration and density of the 
ground, and with the circumstances impeding or favouring evaporation, such 
as temperature, movement of air, &c. In the magnesian limestone districts, 
about 20 per cent, penetrates ; in the new red sandstone (Triassic), 25 per 
cent. ; in the chalk, 42 ; in the loose tertiary sand, 90 to 96. 

Penetrating into the ground, the water absorbs a large proportion of car- 
bonic acid from the air in the interstices of the soil, which is much richer 
(250 times) in C0 2 than the air above. It then passes more or less deeply 
into the earth, and dissolves everything it meets with which can be taken up 
in the time, at the temperature and by the aid of carbonic acid. In some' 



10 WATER. 

sandy soils there is a deficiency of C0 2 , and then the water is also wanting in 
this gas, and is not fresh and sparkling. 

The chemical changes and decompositions which occur in the soil by the 
action of carbonic acid, and which are probably influenced by diffusion, and 
perhaps pressure, as well as by temperature, are extremely curious,* but 
cannot be entered upon here. The most common and simple are the solution 
of carbonate of lime, and the decomposition of silicate of lime and soda by 
carbonic acid, or alkaline carbonates. Salts of ammonia also, when they exist, 
appear from Dietrich's observations to have a considerable dissolving effect on 
the silicates. 

The general result of solution and decomposition is that the water of springs 
and rivers often contains a great number of constituents some in very small, 
others in great amount. Some waters are so highly charged as to be termed 
mineral waters, and to be unfit for drinking, except as medicines. The im- 
purities of water are not so much influenced by the depth of the spring as by 
the strata it passes through. The water of a surface spring, or of the deepest 
artesian well, may be pure or impure. The temperature of the water also 
varies, and is chiefly regulated by the depth. The temperature of shallow 
springs alters with the season ; that of deeper springs is often that of the 
yearly mean. In very deep springs, as in some artesian wells, the tempera- 
ture of the water is high. 

The chief constituents of water, which are important in a hygienic point of 
view, are as follows : 

Suspended Matters. 

They may be mineral, vegetable, or animal, and may consist of extremely 
finely divided silica, clay, chalk, chalky marl, or ferruginous soil, or of the 
debris of organic matter, vegetable or animal. Carbonate of magnesia is also 
sometimes present. There may be also growing plants of various kinds. 

The clay and chalky marl is sometimes so finely levigated that it will not 
subside, and even passage through a sand or charcoal filter will not remove it. 
The addition of alum (6 grains to the gallon), and allowing the water to stand 
for twelve hours, will often remove this condition. Chalk and sandy sus- 
pended matters deposit more easily, and are easily separated by filtration. 
Suspended vegetable matter subsides slowly, but is readily got rid of by filtra- 
tion. Animal matter, especially when derived from sewage, is in a state of 
fine suspension, often tinges the water dark, has odour, and can be readily 
separated by filtration. 

The following table from Gustav Bischoff shows the amount of suspended 
matters in the water of some of the great rivers : 



SUBSTANCES SUSPENDED IN RIVER WATER. 

Amount suspended differs at different times. 

In 100,000 parts. 

Ehine, . . . . . 173 to 20 

Danube, .... 9-237 

Elbe, . . 0-891 

Mississippi (annual mean), . . 80-32 to 58"82 

* These are given iu detail by G. Bischoff, "Chemical and Physical Geology" (Cavendish 
Society's edit.), 1854, vol. i. p. 2, el seq. ; and in "Watt's Dictionary of Chemistry ;" Article, 
Chemistry of Geology, by Dr Paul. 



COMPOSITION. 11 

In 100,000 parts. 

Ganges from March to June, . . 21*71 

June to October, . 194-30 

October to March, . 44 -8 6 

Mean, .... 86-86 

(Total annual discharge of the Ganges, 6,368,077,440 
cubic feet of mineral matter. This gives 172 square 
miles 1 foot thick.) 

COMPOSITION OF SUSPENDED MATTERS. 
Per cent, of Suspended Solids. 

Rhine. Danube. 

Silica,. . . . 57-63 ... 45-02 

Alumina, . . .10-75 ... 7 -83 

Peroxide iron, . . . 14-42 ... 9'16 

mang., . . trace 

Lime, .... 2'73 ... 0'34 

Magnesia, . . .0-24 ... 0'42 

Potash, . . .0-89 

CaOC0 2 , . . . ... 24-08 

MgOC0 2 , . . . ... 6-32 

FeO C0 2 . 

Organic matter, . . . ... 2-25 

Loss by ignition, . . 9 -64 ... 4-58 

Loss, . . . 3-31 ... 1-66 

Dissolved Constituents. 

1. Gaseous. Atmospheric air and carbonic acid are contained in most 
waters. The " brisk " and pleasant taste of spring water, especially from the 
chalk districts, is owing to the latter. The total amount of and X may be 
as high as 7 or 8 cubic inches per gallon. The relative amounts of the two 
gases vary greatly. The may be as 1 to 2, or in much less amount. The 
amount of free C0 2 is often from 2 to 17 or 18 cubic inches per gallon, and 
on standing in a long glass, bubbles of gas appear on the sides. River water 
usually contains much less, and many springs, especially if derived from a 
granitic district, contain very little. The carbonic acid may be derived from 
the carbonic acid of the air or soil, or may be produced in water by gradual 
oxidation of organic matter.* In such a case the lessens in a correspond- 
ing degree. 

Water containing much C0 2 is always pleasant and piquant ; whether the 
gas has any other beneficial effect is doubtful. The air in water also contri- 
butes to the agreeableness of the taste, and airless water (like distilled water) 
is disagreeable to some people, and appears to be absorbed with greater 
difficulty. 

Hydro-sulphuric acid, when found in drinking water, has usually resulted 
from. the decomposition of sulphates of soda or lime by contact with organic 
matter, such as vegetable debris, or even particles of cork. It appears from 
an observation of Kisch (Archiv. fiir wiss. Heilk, 1864, No. iii., p. 261), that 
in the Marienbad waters, sulphuretted hydrogen is produced when Algae are 
present in the water, not without. 

Carburetted hydrogen appears to arise from slow decomposition of vegetable 

* Miller's Elements of Chemistry, part ii. p. 53. 1860. 



12 WATEK. 

matter under restricted access of air. Some waters purify themselves on 
standing by giving out sulphuretted and carburetted hydrogen, and after be- 
coming very offensive, again become sVeet, like the Thames water when carried 
'on voyages. 

2. Organic Matters. These are vegetable or animal. Almost all water 
contains some organic matter derived from the soil. The purest water from 
granitic or clay-slate districts contains from 0'3 to 0'7 grains per gallon; the 
purest chalk water contains from 0*3 to 1 and 1'5 grains per gallon. The 
sandstone waters usually contain more. If the water has permeated rich 
vegetable soil, it will contain a very large amount of organic matter, as much 
as 12 to 30 grains per gallon, and the water is then often of a yellowish or 
brownish tint. Water from peat often contains a large amount, and the tint 
is here also brownish. 

In water from marshes the organic matter varies from 10 or 12 grains to 
50 or 100 per gallon, or possibly in some cases more. Suspended organic 
matter is also common. This organic matter is said to be nitrogenous, and is 
sometimes called " vegetable albumen." And indeed it seems probable that 
a nitrogenous vegetable matter is not uncommon in waters. 

In most of these cases the organic matter is of vegetable origin, and con- 
sists of humin and ulmin, and of acids derived from humus, such as the 
crenic acid (C 24 H 12 16 + 3HO), which 011 exposure becomes aprocrenic acid 
(C 4 XA4+ 4HO )> uk acid (C 4 oH 14 12 ), humic acid (C 40 H 12 ), and geic 
acid (C 40 H ]2 14 ). All these acids are non-nitrogenous (Mulder), but combine 
eagerly with ammonia. 

In waters which enter into the list of mineral waters, other substances are 
found the so-called Glairine or the Zoogene, which are nitrogenous sub- 
stances.* 

Organic matter of animal origin, and containing nitrogen, sometimes passes 
into water, and is then usually derived from the habitations or works of men, 
or from decomposing animals living in or accidentally passing into water. 
The contents of cesspools or sewers drain into springs, or are conducted into 
rivers, or the water permeates through soil impregnated more or less with 
these things. The exact composition of the organic matter has not been 
determined ; urea would necessarily soon pass into carbonate of ammonia, and 
the other organic matters of the urine are not very stable. Nitrogenous, 
faecal, and biliary matters are probably less easily decomposed, and these 
possibly give a large amount of the animal organic matter. But in addition, 
decomposed flesh and other animal matters from butchers' shops and slaughter- 
houses, and from dust-heaps and lay-stalls ; substances from tripe-houses and 
gut-spinners ; from size, horn, and isinglass manufactories, and from similar 
trades, often pass into well and spring water. 

Almost all these substances in decomposing produce both nitrous and nitric 
acids and ammonia, and such waters are often rich in nitrites and nitrates. 

Sometimes organic matter oxidises so rapidly into nitrites and ammonia, 
that though the amount of nitrous and nitric acid is great, and the volatile 
matters on incineration amount to 6, 8, or even 12 grains per gallon, the 
permanganate of potassium and the terchloride of gold show only a small 
quantity of oxidisable organic matter. In such cases, if the permanganate 
test is not combined with the examination by incineration, water which had 
been impregnated with sewage might be thought to be pure. 

* Zoogene is a sort of gelatinous substance which has been noticed in the mineral waters of 
Baden, Ischia, and Plombieres. Glairine or baregine is a somewhat similar substance found in 
the sulphurous waters of the Pyrenees. The " stilfuraire," a confervoid growth, is also found 
in this water, and has been confounded with the glairine. 



1 



COMPOSITION. 



13 



Most of these dissolved animal substances give no taste or smell to the water 
unless ammonia is found in great quantity, which is seldom the case, or sul- 
phuretted hydrogen. A water may contain as much as twenty, or even thirty, 
grains per gallon, and be considered good by those who drink it. In those 
who are unaccustomed to it, or in all, apparently, under certain conditions of 
decomposition, such as high temperature, water of this kind produces diarrhoeal, 
and even choleraic symptoms, and there is some evidence to show that it pre- 
disposes to true cholera, as will be presently noted. Possibly the organic 
matter may, under certain conditions, commence to undergo fermentative 
changes, and then becomes suddenly poisonous ; but it seems likely that the 
perfectly dissolved animal organic matter is not quite so injurious as that 
which is merely suspended. 

In addition to these ill-defined substances, certain fatty acids have been 
detected in drinking water viz., butyric, formic, propionic, caproic, and 
acetic.* 

In a case recorded by Kraut, the water came from a marsh, and volatile 
fatty acids were formed on standing. 

Schweizert detected butyric acid in the water of a well, which was in part 
fed by the water of a trench many hundred feet distant, which was full of 
animal and vegetable debris. This water could not be used by men or animals, 
and contained no less than 1-5 grammes per litre or 105 grains per gallon of 
butyrate of lime. 

It seems probable that this kind of contamination is more common than is 
supposed ; and as the fatty acids are sometimes very irritating, even in small 
amount, their rapid formation may also occasionally lead to those symptoms 
of bilious vomiting and diarrhoea which water containing organic matter 
seems sometimes suddenly to produce, although it may have been used for 
some time before with impunity. But nothing certain is known on this 
point. 

Animal organic matter is also derived from graveyards ; the exact nature 
of the substance is here also unknown. It may be partly nitrogenous (since 
nitrous and nitric acid and ammonia are readily formed) and partly fatty. The 
injurious effect of water thus impregnated in causing diarrhoea and dysentery 
seems pretty well established. The detection of, and purification from, organic 
matter are afterwards given. The amount of organic matter in different kinds 
of water can be seen from the following table, containing a few analyses made 
by different observers ; many of them are by Dr Dundas Thomson and Dr 
Letheby, and are merely cited to show the usual range of organic impurity : 



Water. Place supplied to. 


Whence derived, and formation. 


Amount of organic 
matters in grains 
per gallon. 


Glasgow, 


Loch Katrine Primitive, 


0-82 


Chatham, 


Chalk, . 


0-5 




[Millstone grit, brought] 




Liverpool, . 


< by pipe 24 miles long > 
(to Liverpool, 


1-21 


Manchester, . 


j Millstone grit, red sand- ] 
< stone, and surface drain- > 
(age, . . . . j 


1-253 


Watford, . 


Chalk, 


1-26 



* Scherer' and Kraut. Annalen d. Chem. und Pharm. 1856 ; band 99, p. 257 : and band 
103, p. 29. 
t Oesterlen's Zeitschrift fur Hygiene ; vol. i. p. 166. 



14 



WATER. 



TABLE OF ANALYSES continued. 



Water. Place supplied to. 


Whence derived, and formation. 


Amount of organic 
matters in grains 
per gallon. 


Farnham, . ' . 


Tertiary sands, 


1-78 


Aberdeen, 


Primitive rocks, . 


1-82 


New Biver, . 


Chalk, chiefly, 


1-9 to 2-7 


Thames at Thames Ditton, 


Chalk and clay districts, &c. , 


2-29 


at London Bridge 






(in 1861), 


55 55 


3-7 


(in 1863), 






Some shallow London Wells 






(Lethebyinl861) 






Bishopsgate Street, . 


( Surface, gravel, &c., | 
( lying over London clay, j 


6-4 


Aldgate, . 


55 55 


7-1 


Bride Lane, 


55 55 


8- 


Little Britain Street, 


55 55 


8-2 


Honey Lane Market, 


5) 55 


2-1 


Guildhall Buildings, 


5J 55 


2- 


Glover's Lane Court, 


55 55 


1-5 


Chatham weU-water (1861), 


J Chalk, but impregnated \ 
\ with excreta, . . J 


5- 






9 -2 


'55 55 57 


55 55 




Brighton well - water,* { 




n.^9 


Northern well (1862), J 


55 55 


\JM 


Southern well, . 


55 55 


8-32 


Norwich well-water 


Near a churchyard, 


10-37t 



Mineral Substances. An immense number of mineral substances are found 
in water. Omitting, however, all the rarer substances, which are found in 
extremely small quantity, and putting on one side the waters in which saline 
matters are in so great abundance as to constitute mineral waters, we find the 
most common constituents of drinking water to be lime, magnesia, soda, 
potassa, ammonia, iron, chlorine, sulphuric acid, carbonic acid, phosphoric 
acid, nitric acid, silicic acid. 

More infrequently, or in special circumstances, alumina, manganese, arsenic, 
and nitrous acid 'are found. 

The mode of combination of these substances is yet uncertain ; it may be 
that the acids and bases are equally distributed among each other, or some 
other modes of combination may be in play. The mode of combination is 
usually assumed to be as follows.:}: The chemist determines the amount of 
each separate substance, and then calculates the combination as follows. The 
chlorine is combined with sodium ; if there is an excess, it is combined with 
potassium or calcium ; if there is an excess of soda, it is combined with sul- 
phuric acid, or if still in excess, with carbonic acid. Lime is combined with 
excess of chlorine or sulphuric acid, or if there be no sulphuric acid or an 
excess of lime, with carbonic acid. Magnesia is combined with carbonic acid. 
So that the most usual combinations are chloride of sodium, sulphate of soda, 
carbonate of soda, carbonate of lime (held in solution by carbonic acid), sul- 



* Dundas Thomson, "Lancet," Oct. 11, 1862. 
J Fresenius, Quantitative Anal. 3d edit. p. 481. 



t Sutton. 



1 



SUMMARY OF DRINKING WATERS. 15 

phate of lime, chloride and silicate of calcium, and carbonate of magnesia. 
But the results of the analysis may render other combinations necessary. 

SUB-SECTION II. SUMMAEY or DRINKING WATERS. 

As the composition is so various, it is impossible to give any good classifi- 
cation of drinking waters ; the divisions of mineral waters usually employed 
are of little use for our purpose. It may be desirable, however, to give a 
general summary of the characters of some of the most typical kinds. 

s Springs and Wells. 

1. The Granitic, Metamorphic, Trap Rock, and Clay-Slate Waters. 
Generally the granitic water is very pure, often not containing more than 
two to six grains per gallon of solids, viz., carbonate of soda, chloride of 
sodium, and a little lime and magnesia. The organic matter is in very small 
amount. The clay-slate water is generally very pure, often not containing 
more than from three to four grains per gallon. 

2. The Water from Millstone Grit and hard Oolite. Like the granitic 
water this is very pure, often not containing more than four to eight grains 
per gallon of mineral matters, which consist of a little sulphate and carbonate 
of lime and magnesia ; a trace of iron. 

3. Soft Sand-Rock Waters. These are of variable composition, but as a rule 
are impure, containing much chloride of sodium, carbonate of soda, sulphate of 
soda, iron, and a little lime and magnesia, amounting altogether to from thirty 
to eighty grains per gallon. The organic matter may be in large amount, 
four to eight grains per gallon, or even more. Sometimes these waters are 
tolerably pure, or wells or springs, within a short distance, may vary con- 
siderably in composition. 

4. The Loose Sand and Gravel Waters. In this case there is also a great 
variety of composition. Sometimes the water is very pure, as in the case of 
the Farnham waters, and in some of the waters from the greensand, where 
the total solids are not more than from four to eight grains per gallon, and con- 
sist of a little carbonate, sulphate, and silicate of lime ; carbonate of magnesia, 
chlorides of sodium and potassium ; sulphates of soda and potassa, iron, and 
organic matter. The last is sometimes in some amount, viz., -8 to 1*8 grains 
per gallon. In tolerably pure gravels, not near towns, the water is often very 
free from impurity. In the case of many sands, however, which are rich in 
salts the water is impure, the solid contents amounting sometimes to fifty or 
seventy grains per gallon, or more, and consisting of chloride of sodium, 
carbonate of soda, sulphate of soda, with lime and magnesian salts. These 
waters are often alkaline, and contain a good deal of organic matter. The 
water from the sands in the "Landes" (Southern France) contains enough 
organic matter to give ague. 

5. Waters from the Lias Clays vary in composition, but are often impure ; 
as much as 217 grains per gallon of mineral matters have been found. No 
less a quantity than 88 grains of sulphate of lime, and 41 '8 of sulphate of 
magnesia, existed in a water examined by Voelcker. 

6. The Chalk Waters. The pure, typical carbonate of lime water from the 
chalk is very sparkling and clear, highly charged with carbonic acid, and con- 
tains from 7 to 20 grains per gallon of carbonate of lime, a little carbonate of 
magnesia and chloride of sodium small and immaterial quantities of iron, 
silica, potassa, nitric, and phosphoric acid. Sulphuric acid in combination is 
sometimes present in variable amount ; organic matter is usually in small 



16 WATER. 

amount. This is a good, wholesome, and pleasant water. It is hard, but 
softens greatly by boiling.* 

7. The Limestone and Magnesian Limestone Waters. These are also clear, 
sparkling waters of agreeable taste. They differ from the chalk in containing 
usually more sulphate of lime (4 to 12 grains, or even more) and less carbon- 
ate, and, in the case of the dolomitic districts, much sulphate and carbonate 
of magnesia. Organic matter is usually in small amount. They are not so 
wholesome as the chalk waters, and in some cases produce goitre. They are 
hard, and soften less on boiling. 

8. The Selenitic Waters. Water charged with sulphate of lime (6 to 20 
grains, or even more) may occur in a variety of cases, but it may sometimes 
come from selenitic rocks. It is an unwholesome water, and in many persons 
produces dyspepsia and constipation, alternating with diarrhoea. It is hard, 
softens little on boiling, and is not good for cooking or washing. 

9. Clay Waters. Very few springs exist in the stiff clay ; the water is 
chiefly surface, and falls soon into rivers ; it varies greatly in composition, 
and it often contains much suspended matter, but few dissolved constituents, 
chiefly lime and soda salts. 

10. Alluvial Waters. (Alluvium is usually a mixture of sand and clay.) 
Generally impure, with carbonate of lime, sulphates of lime, sulphate of mag- 
nesia, chloride of sodium, carbonate of soda, iron, silica, and often much 
organic matter. Occasionally the organic matter oxidises rapidly into nitrites, 
and if the amount of chloride of sodium is large, it might be supposed that 
the water had been contaminated with sewage. The amount of solids per gallon 
varies from 20 to 120 grains, or even more. 

11. Surface and Subsoil Water. Very variable in composition, but often 
very impure, and always to be regarded with suspicion. Heaths and moors, 
on primitive rocks, or hard millstone grit, may supply a pure water, which 
may, however, be sometimes slightly coloured with vegetable matter. Culti- 
vated lands, with rich manured soils, give a water containing often both 
organic matter and salts in large quantity. Some soils contain nitrates of 
potash, soda, and magnesia, and give up these salts in large quantity to water. 
This is the case in several parts of India ; at Aden, and at ]STassick in the 
Deccan (Haines). In towns, and among the habitations of men, the surface- 
water and the shallow well-water often contain large quantities of nitrites, 
and nitrates, sulphates and phosphates of lime and soda, and chloride of 
sodium. The nitrates in this case probably arise from ammonia ; nitrite of 
ammonia being first formed, which dissolves large quantities of lime. Organic 
matter exists often in large amount, and slowly oxidises, forming nitrous acid 
and ammonia. In some cases, butyric acid, which often unites with lime, is 
also formed. 

12. Marsh Water. This always contains a large amount of vegetable 
organic matter; from 12 to 40 and 50 grains is not uncommon, and in some 
cases there is more. Suspended organic matter is also common. The salts are 
variable. A little lime and soda, in combination with carbonic and sulphuric 
acids and chlorine, are the most usual. Of course, if the marsh is a salt one, 
the mineral constituents of sea-water are present in varying proportions. 

13. Water from Grave-yards. Mtrites and nitrates of ammonia, and lime, 
and sometimes fatty acids, and much organic matter. 

14. Water flowing from factories may contain a great number of mineral 
and organic substances, including arsenic from calico-printing. 

* Sometimes the water drawn from the upper part of the chalk is really derived from ter- 
tiary sand lying above the chalk. The water contains less carbonate of lime, and more carbon- 
ate of soda and chloride of sodium, and may be alkaline. 






CONTAMINATION OF DRINKING WATER. 17 



Artesian Well Water. The composition varies greatly. In some cases the 
water is so highly charged with saline matter as to be undrinkable ; the water 
of the artesian well at Grenelle contains enough carbonate of soda and potash 
to make it alkaline ; in some cases the water contains iron in some amount ; 
in other cases, especially when drawn from the lower part of the chalk, or 
the greensand below it, it is tolerably pure. Its temperature is usually high, 
in proportion to the depth of the well. The aeration of the water is often 
moderate. These last two points rather militate against the employment of 
water from very deep wells. The total solid constituents of some artesian 
wells is as follows : * 

Depth. Grains per Gallon. 

Grenelle, . . 1797 10 

Perpignan, . . 557 11 

Eheims, ' 101 20'8 

Nordmarkt, in Amsterdam, 201 99 '4 

River Water. 

Fed from a variety of sources, river water is even more complex in its con- 
stitution than spring water ; it is also more influenced by the season, and by 
circumstances connected with season, such as the melting of snow or ice, rains 
and floods, &c. The water taken on opposite sides of the same river has been 
found to differ slightly in composition. 

Comparative Value of Spring, River, and Well Water o Sources of Supply. 

This depends on so many circumstances, that little can be said. Spring 
water is both pure and impure in different cases ; and the mere fact of its 
being a spring is not, as sometimes imagined, a test of goodness. Frequently, 
indeed, river water is purer than spring water, especially from the deposit of 
carbonate of lime ; organic matter is, however, generally in greater quantity, 
as so much more vegetable matter and animal excreta find their way into it. 
The water of a river may have a very different constitution from that of the 
springs near its banks. A good example is given by the Ouse, at York ; the 
water of this river is derived chiefly from the millstone grit which feeds the 
Swale, the Ure, and the Nid, tributaries of the Ouse ; the water contains 
only 9 grains per gallon of salts of lime, magnesia, soda, and a little iron. 
The wells in the neighbourhood pass down into the soft new red sandstone 
which lies below the millstone grit; the water contains as much as 64*96 
grains, and even, in one case, 96 grains per gallon ; in addition to the usual 
salts there is much chloride of calcium, nitrates of lime, soda, and magnesia, 
Shallow well water is always to be viewed with suspicion ; it is the natural 
point to which the drainage of a good deal of surrounding land tends, and 
heavy rains will often wash many substances into it. 

Distilled Water. 

Distillation is now very largely used at sea, and affords an easy way of getting 
good water from sea or brackish water. Almost any form of apparatus will 
suffice, if fuel can be procured, to obtain enough water to support life, and 
if even the simplest appliances are not attainable, the mere suspension of 
clean woollen clothing over boiling water will enable a large quantity to be 






* Moleschott, Nahrungsmittel, I860, p. 280. 



18 WATEH. 

collected. At sea, salt water is sometimes mixed with it from the priming 
of the boilers, and occasionally from decomposition of the chloride of mag- 
nesium (probably), a little free hydrochloric acid passes off. This can, if 
necessary, be neutralised by carbonate of soda. 

As distilled water is nearly free from air, and is therefore unpalatable to 
some persons, and it is supposed indigestible, it may be aerated by allowing 
it to run through a cask, the bottom of which is pierced with fine holes, so 
as to expose the water to the air. A special apparatus for aerating the water 
distilled from sea water has been invented by the late Dr Normandy, and is 
in common use. Organic matter, at first offensive to taste and smell in dis- 
tilled water," can be got rid of by passing through a charcoal filter, or by 
keeping three or four days. 

Care should be taken that no lead finds its way into the distilled water. 
Many cases of lead-poisoning have occurred on board ships, partly from the 
use of minium in the apparatus, and partly from the use of zinc pipes con- 
taining lead in their composition. 

SUB-SECTION III. USUAL SOURCES OF CONTAMINATION OF WATER, AND 
SANITARY PRECAUTIONS. 

In examining any water, it is necessary to consider whether, in any way, 
some special cause of impurity has been in operation. 

Eain water becomes contaminated by falling through a foul atmosphere ; 
also, by carrying away decaying leaves or other matters from roofs of houses ; 
it dissolves also lead from lead coatings and pipes, and takes up enough zinc 
from zinc roofs to be injurious. (Tardieu, Diet, d? Hygiene, t. 11, p. 25.) 

Rivers may be rendered temporarily impure by heavy rain and floods 
bringing soils and vegetable debris from higher regions, or by irruptions of 
the sea, or by the overflow of marsh waters. Shallow wells and springs are 
also sometimes altered in composition by the same causes, and, if situated 
near the sea, may be, in dry seasons, rendered brackish by the pressure of 
the salt water into -the land. Deep springs and wells are, of course, less 
affected. 

The most common sources of contamination are found, however, in the 
habitations and trades of men. Shallow wells are very apt to be contaminated 
by floods carrying in surface impurities ; and by sewage soaking from cess- 
pits, and by matters of all kinds thrown out on the ground. To a certain 
extent, the soil through which these substances pass will filter and purify 
the water, but it must eventually lose this power, and also, at last, a com- 
plete channel may be opened, and a stream of substance may suddenly find 
its way into a well. 

A well drains an extent of ground around it in the shape of an inverted 
cone, which is in proportion to its own depth and the looseness of the soil ; 
in very loose soils a well of 60 or 80 feet will drain a large area, perhaps as 
much as 200 feet in diameter, or even more, but the exact amount is not, as 
far as I know, precisely determined. Professor Ansted states that the deepest 
(non-artesian) well will not drain a cone which is more than half a mile in radius. 

Certain trades pour their refuse water into rivers : gas-works ; slaughter- 
houses ; gut spinners ; tripe-houses ; size, horn, and isinglass manufactories ; 
washhouses, starch-works, and calico printers, and many others. 

Gases evolved from decomposing substances, or thrown out from manufac- 
tories, are also absorbed by sheets of water, or are washed down into streams 
or shallow wells by rain, and in this way suspended organic substances are 
often carried down. 



CHARACTEKS OF GOOD DKINKING WATER. 19 

In houses, it is astonishing how many instances occur of the water of butts, 
cisterns, and tanks getting contaminated by leaking of pipes and other causes, 
such as the passage of sewer gas through overflow pipes, &c. 

As there is now no doubt that typhoid fever, cholera, and dysentery may be 
caused by water rendered impure by the evacuations passed in those diseases, 
and as simple diarrhoea seems also to be largely caused by animal organic sus- 
pension or solution, it is evident how necessary it is to be quick-sighted in 
regard to the possible impurity of water from incidental causes of this kind. 
Therefore all tanks and cisterns should be inspected regularly, and any acci- 
dental source of impurity must be looked out for. Wells should be covered ; 
a good coping put round to prevent substances being washed down; the 
distance from cesspits and dungheaps should be carefully noted ; no sewer 
should be allowed to pass near a well. The same precautions should be taken 
with springs. In the case of rivers we must consider if contamination can 
result from the discharge of fsecal matters, trade refuse, &c. 

SUB-SECTION IV. CHARACTERS OF GOOD DRINKING WATER. 

The general characters of good drinking water are these. It must be trans- 
parent, colourless, without odour, and tasteless ; it should be well aerated 
(as it then appears to be more easily absorbed), cool, and pleasant to drink ; it 
must have no deposit ; vegetables should be readily cooked in it ; the total 
dissolved constituents must be within a certain amount. It is difficult, with- 
out more evidence than we at present possess, to define this amount, and the 
following numbers must be taken with some limitation : 

Organic matter should not exceed 1 '5 grains per gallon. 

Carbonate of lime, . . 16 ,, 

Sulphate of lime, . . 3 

Carbonate and sulphate of ) ,> 

magnesia, j 

Chloride of sodium, . . 10 

Carbonate of soda, 20 

Sulphate of soda, 6 

Iron, .... 0-5 

The proper amount of gases is stated by Boudet to be as follows : 
Mtrogen, .... 6 cubic inches per gallon. 

Oxygen, . . 2'5 

Free carbonic acid, . . 5|- to 7 ,, 

At the Sanitary Congress held at Brussels in 1853, it was decided that the 
total amount of solids ought not to exceed 0*5 grammes per litre ( = 35 grains 
per gallon), and the same rule had been previously laid down in the " Annu- 
aire des Eaux de la France pour 1851 " (p. 14) ; but this statement is of 
little use, as the salts differ so much in their effect on the system : the car- 
bonate of lime may exist without injury in large quantities ; the carbonate of 
soda in still greater ; but sulphate of lime or magnesia is prejudicial in much 
smaller amounts. It must also be conceded that in some cases water still 
more highly charged with salts, especially the alkaline salts, has been used 
for many years without apparent injury. 



20 WATER. 



SECTION III. 
EXAMINATION OF WATEE. 

Procure as much of the water as possible ; if a thorough examination has 
to be made, one or even two gallons are necessary. It should be collected in 
clean glass bottles. 

SUB-SECTION I. PHYSICAL EXAMINATION. 

Shake up the water. Place some of it in a long glass, and allow it to 
stand for twenty-four hours to collect the sediment. Then note the following 
points. 

Colour and Transparency. Turbidity which may be permanent is given 
by finely divided clay, vegetable matter, chalk, and ferruginous sand. 

Colour is given especially by peat, decomposing vegetation, animal matters. 
The depth of the colour is no indication of the amount. The water from 
farm-yards is often highly coloured, but sometimes contains little organic 
matter.* It must be remembered that a large quantity of dissolved organic 
matter may exist in a perfectly colourless water. In order to estimate colour 
it has been recommended by Letheby to look down through a stratum of water 
2 feet in thickness on a white plate. A tall glass is used for this purpose, 
and another glass is filled with distilled water for comparison. 

Tasted Although naturally much relied on, and useful if large quantities 
of foreign substances are present, taste is not a good guide. Organic matter, 
when dissolved, is often quite tasteless ; 55 grains of carbonate of soda and 
70 of chloride of sodium per gallon are imperceptible ; 10 grains of carbonate 
of lime give no taste ; 25 grains of sulphate of lime very little ; yet a per- 
manently hard water, especially if alkaline salts are present, has sometimes a 
peculiar fade or slightly saline taste, if the total salts amount to 35 to 40 
grains per gallon, and the sulphate of lime reaches 6 or 8 grains. Iron is the 
only substance in small quantity detected with great certainty by taste. That 
a water is tasteless, is, therefore, evidence only of freedom from very large 
impregnation with salts and organic matter. It is stated that when the 
water is warmed to 86 95 F., any taste is more perceptible than when the 
water is cold. 

Smell detects sulphuretted hydrogen in very small quantities, and ammonia 
if in large amount. Suspended or dissolved decomposing animal matters in 
large quantity sometimes will give a foetid smell. If butyric or other fatty 

* Voelcker says (Journal of the Royal Agricultural Society, No. 50), that samples of farm- 
yard water which " looked like the very essence of the manure heap," were found on analysis 
to contain very little organic matter. 

f A paper in the Army Medical Report for 1862 (vol. iv.) by DrDe Chaumont states very 
clearly the limits of taste ; they are as follows : 

Chloride of sodium is detected when it reaches 75 grains per gallon. 

potassium, . 20 



magnesium, 



,, iXit*Q-U 

Sulphate of lime. 
Carbonate of lime, 
Nitrate of lime, 
Carbonate of soda, 
Iron, 



50 to 55 
25 to 30 
10 to 12 
15 to 20 
60 to 65 
2 



EXAMINATION OF WATEK. 21 

acids have formed, the smell may be occasionally perceived when a stoppered 
bottle in which the water has been kept for some weeks is opened. 

Touch. The only evidence derivable from this sense is in washing ; hard 
waters (containing the earthy salts) forming an imperfect lather with soap. 
This point is generally, however, more precisely determined. So also in 
cooking vegetables. Hard waters coat the vegetables with salts of lime, and 
prevent the access of water. 

If circumstances prevent any examination beyond the physical one, it 
should be clearly understood and stated that the information is very limited, 
and on no occasion should a water be affirmed to be good merely because it is 
colourless, tasteless, and free from smell ; it should be merely stated that the 
physical examination detects no impurity. 



SUB-SECTION II. MICROSCOPIC EXAMINATION. 

After the water has stood for twenty-four hours the sediment may be ex- 
amined, or if there be much animal or vegetable life, a drop can at once be 
taken from the water. The larger animals can often be seen with the naked 
eye, by attentively looking through the glass when placed opposite a bright 
light. 

In the sediment the chief microscopic appearances are 

1. Sand ; easily known by its angles, and its being unaffected by any 

re-agent. 

2. Clay and marl; amorphous non-angular particles, not acted on by 

re-agents. 

3. Chalk ; round and slightly angular particles, at once dissolved by 

acids. 

4. "Woody fibre ; when much broken up, very little is seen beyond dark 

masses, sometimes rather fibrous looking ; if less changed, and in 
large masses, unequivocal woody fibre can be seen. 

5. Portions of leaves ; bits of the veins, with occasionally some of the 

parenchyma, or dark masses without any distinguishing characters, 
are seen. If starchy matters remain, iodine detects them. 

6. Algas and confervoid growths are often seen even in tolerably pure 

waters, and portions of different water plants. 

7. In some cases remains of animals, portions of muscular tissue. In 

waters contaminated with sewage, an " ochreous substance" has 
been found by Hassall, and is considered to be altered muscular 
fibre tinged with bile. Mtric acid brings out the pink tint,* 
according to Hassall. 

8. Infusoria. The different kinds of paramecium are the most common, 

and are found in water containing both animal and vegetable organic 
matter. The P. chrysalis is very common in the Thames water 
(Hassall). Monads and rotifers are sometimes seen, and varieties 
of Actinophrys, Euglcna viridis, &c. 

9. Diatomacese in large numbers are found in some waters, and Hassall 

has figured a great number in the Thames water. Gyrosigma hip- 
pocampus, Nitzschia elongata, and species of Navicula are perhaps 
most common, but there is a considerable variety. 



* A Microscopic Examination of the Water supplied to the Inhabitants of London. By 
Arthur Hill Hassall, M.D. 1850, p. 8. 



22 WATER. 

1 0. Eiitomostraca. The water flea (Daplmia pulex) (fig. 1 ) and the Cyclops 





Fig. 1. 



Fig. 2. 



11. 



quadricornis (male and female, fig. 2) are the most common, and are 
found in most stagnant waters. They are also found in some good 
waters, such as that of Manchester, which in summer is quite full 
of the Daphnia. The Cyclops also is constantly found in water 
which is otherwise considered good. 

Annelids. Small worms are not infrequently found in stagnant or 
marsh water, and sometimes in water contaminated with sewage. 
The subjoined plates (kindly drawn for me by my friend Dr Maddox) 
show all that was found in the sediment of the water drawn from one of the 
wells at Netley, and the sediment of a ditch water, which may be taken to 
represent the usual surface water. Hassall has published numerous plates of 
the sediments in the waters of the London companies, which can be referred 
to.* 



SUB-SECTION III. 1. CHEMICAL EXAMINATION. 

Army surgeons will often be in positions in which it is impossible to make 
a thorough chemical examination, and indeed it is seldom, under any circum- 
stances, that they have complete facilities for so doing. But even an imper- 
fect examination can be made to give much valuable information. The 
chemical analysis can go on at the same time with the physical and microsco- 
pical examinations. 

1. Qualitative Examination. 

1. Reaction. Take the reaction of the water before and after boiling. If 
alkaline, it is probably so from carbonate of soda ; if so, the brown colour 
will not disappear from turmeric. If alkaline from ammonia, the browning 
is fugitive. Carbonic acid may in large quantity give a slight acid reaction, 
and then conceal an alkaline reaction. Boiling drives off the carbonic acid. 

2. Organic Matter. Determine the presence, and form a rough guess at 
the amount, of organic matter by boiling 6 ounces with a few drops of solution 
of chloride of gold. In proportion to the amount of organic matter, the gold 
is reduced, and forms a violet or almost black powder. If this is considerable. 



Op. cit. 



DESCRIPTION or PLATE I. 

Sediment from South iving Wdl, Netley, drawn with the Camera hicida at the distance 
o/lO inches from the centre of eye-piece to paper. 

The presence of infusoria and animals of low type indicates the presence of organic 
matter, animal or vegetable, and it is therefore important to note their presence ; but 
it has not at present been shown that they are in themselves at all hurtful. 

aaa Actinophrys Sol., early and complete stages, x 260. 

b Supposed decomposing amoeba-like expansions Gromio fluviatilis, 
x435. 

c Fragment of carbonate of lime, x 435. 

d Navicula viridis, x 435. 

e Grammatophora marina ? x 435. 

/ Supposed encysted stage of Euglena viridis, x 435. 

g Pinnate conferva, x 780. 

hhh Fragments of decaying vegetable matter, x 65. 
ii Fragments of carbonaceous substance. 

j Part of conferva filament, Conferva floccosa ? showing the various 
conditions of the protoplasm in the old and new cells, x 435. 

k Part of leaf of Sphagnum or bog-moss, x 108. 

I Grammatophora marina, x 435. 
m Minute spores with zoospores ? x 435. 
n Diatoma hyalinum, x 435. 
o Cell with dividing protoplasm, x 435. 
p Oxytricha lingua, x 260. 
q Eotifer vulgaris, small, x 108. 
r Anguillula fluviatilis, x 108. 
s Peranema globosa, x 108. 
t Statoblast of a fresh- water zoophyte ? x 108. 
u Arthrddesmus incus, x 435. 
v Minute Desmidire, Scenedesmus obtusus, x 780. 
w Oscillaria loevis, x 780. 
x Homoeocladia-filiformis ? x 435. 
y Ankistrodesmus falcatus, x 435. 
z Minute moving particles, x 435. (?) Zoospores. 

( To kinder To face Plate /.) 



DESCRIPTION OF PLATE II. 

Sediment of Ditch Water, drawn with the Camera lucida at the distance of 10 inches 
from eye-piece to paper. 

a Decaying vegetable matter, cellular tissue, x 108. 

b Pleurosigma formosum, before dividing, x 170. 

c Oxytricha gibba, x 108. 

d Amphileptus anser, x 170. 

e Euglena viridis, x 285. 

/ Supposed urceola of some rotifer, x 108. 

g Surirella gemma, x 108. 

h Do. do. x 65. 

i Foraminifera, x 65. 

j Trachleocerca linguifera, x 65. 

k Small Planaria ? ovisacs distended, x 65. 

I Navicula viridis, x 285. 
m Paramecium aurelia, x 170. 

n Coleps hirsutus, x 285. 

o Pleuronema crassa, x 285. 
p Monura dulcis, x 1 70. 

q Surirella splendida, x 170. 

r Biddulphia pulchella, x 285. 

s Surirella striatula, x 170. 

t Rotifer, Monolabis conica ? x 108. 

u Aregma, spore cases, x 285. 

v Stertor ceruleus ? do. v. x contracted, x 170. 

w Trinerna acinus 1 x 170. 

x Pinnularia grandis, x 170. 

y Gyrosigma angulatum before dividing, x 170. 

z Alyscum saltans ? x 170. 
aa Synedra ulna, x 170. 
bb Amphipora elata, x 285. 
cc Gyrosigma Spencerii, x 285. 
dd Nitzschia sigma, x 170. 
ee Brachionus angularis, x 170. 
// Young VorticeUa? x 170. 
gg Gyrosigma fasciola, x 285. 
hh Trachelius strictus, x 285. 
ii Cocconema Boeckii, x 170. 

jj Confervoid cell ? with divided protoplasm, x 285. 
Ick Euplotes Charon, x 170. 



(To Binder To face Plate II.} 



EXAMINATION OF WATER. 23 

the amount of organic matter is large. Or add to a pint of the water a 
definite quantity of permanganate of potash (as subsequently directed), and 
allow to stand. A test proposed by Faure for vegetable albumen, viz., tannic 
acid, or an alcoholic solution of gallic acid, is less certain. 

3. Lime. Test with oxalate of ammonia. Six grains per gallon of a lime 
salt give a turbidity with oxalate of ammonia ; 16 grains, a considerable pre- 
cipitate ; 30 grains, a very large precipitate. Even from this test, an idea can 
be formed of the quantity of lime. Boil the water briskly for thirty minutes ; 
if carbonate of lime be present, it will be thrown down; filter, fill up to 
original volume with water, and again test with oxalate of ammonia. As 
only 2 grains per gallon of carbonate of lime can remain in solution after 
boiling, a large precipitate will show that sulphate or chloride of lime is 
present. 

4. Magnesia. Filter the water from the oxalate of lime thrown down in 
3, evaporate to a very small bulk, filter again if there be any precipitate, and 
add a few drops of chloride of ammonia and phosphate of soda, and a few 
drops of ammonia. In twenty-four hours, if magnesia be present, crystals of 
ammoiiiaco-magnesian phosphate are thrown down. 

5. Potash and Soda. It is not often necessary to examine this point, but 
if it is wished to do so,, the process is as follows : Take a portion of the liquid 
from which lime has been thrown down ; evaporate to dryness, ignite gently 
to drive off ammonia ; if magnesia is present, it must be removed as follows : 
Add baryta water, boil, filter ; add to filtrate carbonate of ammonia and some 
caustic ammonia ; evaporate to dryness, adding some chloride of ammonia 
during the process : evaporate, ignite ; then dissolve in a little water, and 
divide into two portions. 

(a.) Test one portion with bichloride of platinum for potassa. 

(b.) Test the other with antimonate of potassa for soda. 

As this process is complex, and as potash is seldoln present in large amount 
in drinking water, it will be generally sufficient to evaporate the water at once, 
and see if it is alkaline ; if it is not, we may be sure no great amount of car- 
bonate of soda is present. 

6. Chlorine. Add a few drops of dilute nitric acid, and then nitrate of 
silver. Four grains per gallon of chloride of sodium give a turbidity; 10 
grains, a slight precipitate ; 20 grains, a considerable precipitate. A guess can 
thus be made at the amount. 

7. Sulphuric Acid. Add a few drops of dilute hydrochloric acid, and then 
a few drops of chloride of barium. If no precipitate occurs, let it stand for 
twenty-four hours. 

Sulphates to the amount of 1, or even 1J, grains per gallon give no preci- 
pitate ; at first, or on standing, 3 grains give a haze, and after a time, a slight 
precipitate; above this amount, the precipitate is pretty well marked. If 
there is no precipitate, the presence of sulphates in small amount (1 to 2 
grains per gallon) is not excluded. 

8. Phosphoric Acid. Add a little dilute nitric acid, and then an excess of 
molybdate of ammonia, and boil. If PO. is present, a yellow colour is produced, 
and in time a finely powdered yellow precipitate of phosphoric molybdate of 
ammonia falls. Or if no molybdate of ammonia be procurable, concentrate the 
water, filter, and add a little sulphate of magnesia and liquor ammonias ; the 
ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate is thrown down. A third test is, to add a 
very little dilute nitric acid, and an excess of acetate of soda, and then a drop 
of sesquichloride of iron; a yellow- white flocculent precipitate falls. As 
phosphoric acid is in small amount, the water must be concentrated. 

9. Test for nitric acid, by evaporating a pint to a very small bulk ; put in 



24 WATEK. 

a test tube ; add an equal bulk of pure sulphuric acid,* so that it may form 
a layer under the water ; allow to cool ; and then drop in a crystal of sulphate 
of iron. A dark olive-green or brown ring will form at the junction of the 
two liquids if nitric acid be present. 

Or after the water has been greatly concentrated, add a little sulphuric acid 
and a drop or two of sulphuric acid and indigo, and warm ; the blue colour 
will disappear if nitric acid be present. 

Another test has been lately proposed, which is still more delicate : 
Brudne Test. Dissolve 1 gramme of brucine in 1000 C.C. of distilled water. 
Take 1 C.C. of this solution ; add 1 C.C. of the water, and then pour down 
the glass very carefully 1 C.C. of pure sulphuric acid, so that it may form a 
layer below the water. If nitrates are present, a zone of rose colour, which 
turns yellow on its under surface, appears at the junction of the two liquids. 
If the water contains To"oo"oth ^ ^& ^ ne reaction is seen very decidedly. 
(Kersting, " Chemical News," October 1863.) The water used to dissolve 
the brucine must be pure, and should be distilled from potash. Commercial 
S0 3 generally contains IST0 5 , and this is a great difficulty for the army surgeon, 
in all the tests for nitric acid in which S0 3 is used. It ought to be distilled 
with 5 per cent, of carbonate of ammonia, and only f collected. The brucine 
should be carefully washed with pure water before solution. 

10. Nitrous Acid. Make iodide of potassium starch paste by taking 1 
part of pure iodide of potassium, 20 parts of starch, and 500 parts of water. 
Take a little of this, mix it with the water, and add a little dilute pure 
sulphuric acid ; if nitrous acid be present, a blue colour will at once appear. 
A comparative experiment should always be made with distilled water. 
Some doubts have been expressed of the accuracy of this test, but it appears 
to be a good one when used for drinking waters, the solids in which are in 
small amount. It is often necessary to concentrate the water. 

11. Ammonia by Nessler's test which is prepared as follows: Take a 
solution of bichloride of mercury, and add solution of iodide of potassium till 
the precipitate is almost redissolved, and then add liquor potassse ; ammonia 
gives a brown precipitate of the composition (NHg 4 I + 2HO). In 559 parts 
by weight of this precipitate, there are 1 7 of ammonia. The water should 
be warmed and then added to the re-agent. 

12. Iron. By red and yellow prussiate of potash, or by solution of tannin, 
Prussian blue or black tannate of iron are thrown down. 

1 3. Sulphuretted Hydrogen, by a salt of lead, or if it exist as sulphide, by 
nitro-prusside of sodium, which gives a beautiful purple colour. The best 
test is solution of oxide of lead in solution of soda, prepared by adding solu- 
tion of soda to acetate of lead, till the precipitate thrown down is dissolved; 
add some of this to a large quantity of water, and see if any discoloration can 
be detected on the surface. 

14. Lead. Pass hydrosulphuric acid at once, or after evaporation, through 
the water. Collect the precipitate ; heat it on charcoal in blowpipe flame, to 
get the metallic lead ; dissolve the lead globule in very weak nitric acid, and 
add a drop of solution of iodide of potassium. 

If the lead is in very small quantity, acidify at least half a gallon of the 
water with acetic acid ; add a little acetate of ammonia (to prevent the lead 
precipitating as sulphate), evaporate to a small bulk, filter, and pass SH 
through. Collect the sulphide of lead, and proceed as above. 

Even by these simple qualitative tests a very fair opinion may be formed 

* The sulphuric acid may be tested by brucine, or by adding a particle of bichromate of 
potash ; if nitrous acid be present, the green oxide of chromium is formed. 



I 



EXAMINATION OF WATER. 25 

of the quality of a water, or at any rate, some guidance is given, In the 
field a surgeon can easily carry dry oxalate of ammonia and chloride of 
gold, and make solutions when he wants them, and thus test for lime and 
organic matter. If water does not deposit carbonate of lime on boiling, and 
after boiling continues to give a large precipitate with oxalate of ammonia, the 
presence of sulphate or nitrate of lime or chloride of calcium in large quanti- 
ties, and not of carbonate of lime, may be inferred. 

If to the qualitative tests the quantity of solids per gallon, and the hard- 
ness of the water before and after boiling, can be determined, a very safe 
opinion on the goodness of the water for drinking purposes can be given at 
the cost of little time or labour. 

If, when a small quantity of permanganate of potash be added, the disco- 
loration occurs very rapidly, the organic matter is more probably animal than 
vegetable. 

If a very large quantity of chlorine is present, the water is either con- 
taminated with sea water, or with much sewage, or is drawn from strata very 
rich in salts, as in the case of some sands. A large indication of nitric or 
nitrous acid shows oxidation of animal matter. 

2. Quantitative Determination. 

There are three points which we may desire to determine, viz., the amount 
of the suspended matters, of the gases, and of the dissolved substances. 

(.) Suspended Matters. It is probably seldom that a medical officer will 
desire to determine the quantity of suspended matters ; still there are occa- 
sions when he may wish to do so. 

Take a measured quantity of the water which holds in suspension a fair 
average quantity of substance, and allow it to stand in a long glass ; when it 
has thoroughly subsided, pour off as much as possible of the clear water, the 
amount being known, and evaporate the whole of the rest to perfect dryness, 
carrying the heat to at least 260 Fahr. Weigh; deduct from the weight 
the amount in the quantity evaporated of the dissolved matters (which is 
known by a subsequent operation) : the remainder is the amount of sus- 
pended matter. 

Incinerate the dry suspended matter, recarbonate with solution of carbon- 
ate of ammonia (as subsequently directed), dry thoroughly, and weigh. 

The suspended matters are thus divided into mineral and organic. It is 
seldom necessary for our purposes to carry the analysis further ; but if it is 
wished to do so, act on the residue with weak hydrochloric acid; note 
whether there is effervescence (carbonate of lime), and test for lime, magnesia, 
iron, &c. The matter insoluble in acids will be sand and clay. 

(6.) Determination of the Gases. To determine all the gases, the easiest 
mode is by ebullition ; a flask and curved tube are both filled with a known 
quantity of the water, and the end of the curved tube opens under a graduated 
measure filled with mercury. Heat is then applied, and the gases are driven 
over. The total amount being read off, the carbonic acid is absorbed by a 
little bit of caustic potash, which is passed into the tube ; the amount is 
again read off, and the oxygen is then absorbed by pyrogallic acid, or pyro- 
gallate of potassium. The remaining gas is nitrogen. Corrections must be 
made for temperature and pressure. (See AIR.) By this process some of the 
combined, as well as the free, carbonic acid is obtained. 

If this process cannot be adopted, it may generally be concluded that a 
good quantity of oxygen will exist in the water if there is a good amount of 
carbonic acid. This is approximately determined by the plan with the 



26 WATER. 

test hereafter given, or if the water be merely allowed to stand in a long 
glass, bubbles of carbonic acid gas will appear on the side of the glass. 

Sulphuretted hydrogen is very readily determined. A solution of ^th of 
an equivalent of iodine, viz., 6 '344 grammes, is dissolved in a litre of water, 
by the aid of a little iodide of potassium. Each cubic centimeter contains 
006344 grammes I, and is equivalent to 0-00085 grammes of SH, or 0*0008 
grammes of sulphur. Take one litre of water, add starch, and drop in the 
solution of iodine from a burette till the blue tint is permanent. Multiply 
the number of C.C. used by -00085, which will give grammes of SH per litre. 
Multiply grammes of SH per litre by 70, to bring into grains per gallon, and 
then by 2 '75 2 5, to bring into cubic inches per gallon. 

(c.) Amount of Dissolved Matters. In a thorough chemical examination 
of a water the amount of each ingredient is separately determined by the 
balance, and the different bases and acids are then combined together, accord- 
ing to some arbitrary rule, as that already given, or according to some indica- 
tions which may arise during the analysis of the water. The total amount 
of all the ingredients should agree very closely with the amount of the solids 
determined by evaporation. 

A chemical examination of this kind cannot be done under two days, and 
often takes longer. A medical officer will seldom have a balance fine enough, 
and all the other apparatus and materials for analysis. And yet it is very 
important he should come to some quantitative estimate of the most important 
dissolved ingredients. 

After a good deal of consideration, I have come to the conclusion, that a 
very good opinion of the hygienic qualities of a water can be given if (in addi- 
tion to the physical, qualitative, and microscopial examinations) quantitative 
determinations be made as follows : 

1. Of the total solids, mineral and organic. 

2. Of the volatile solids, i.e., those destroyed by incineration. 

3. Of the dissolved organic matter. 

4. Of the chlorine, as this will indicate impregnation with sea water, 

or sewage or brackish water, from any cause. 

5. Of the earthy salts, by means of the soap test, which determines 

the so-called hardness of a water. 

But, in case time or opportunity exist for a further examination, other pro- 
cesses are given. 

It would be also extremely important to determine whether the organic 
matter be of vegetable or animal origin, and also what is its exact nature. 
But, unfortunately, at present there are no means of doing this. Whether 
organic matter is animal or vegetable, must be judged of by considering these 
three points : 1. The source of the water ; 2. The co-existence of nitrous acid 
and ammonia, which are more likely to form in water containing animal than 
vegetable matter ; 3. The action on permanganate of potash in the cold : 
vegetable matter acts slowly on this ; animal matter much more rapidly. 

1. Determine Total Solids ~by Evaporation. Measure very carefully a litre 
or half a litre of the water, or weigh a certain quantity, and evaporate to dry- 
ness. Commence in a large evaporating dish, and, when dry, scrape the whole 
carefully out, and transfer into a small weighed platinum or porcelain crucible. 
Wash out the large dish carefully, so as to lose no trace. Dry thoroughly in 
the small dish, raising the heat to 270 Fahr. The hot-air bath is the best way 
of drying, but few army surgeons will possess this ; the crucible may be put 
in an oven by the side of a kitchen-range, or even in a baker's oven, though 
the heat of this is often too much. If this cannot be done, the solids must 
be carefully dried by a spirit lamp, the heat being' raised a good deal, and yet 



EXAMINATION OF WATEK. 27 

not enough to blacken the organic matter. A good deal of care is necessary 
here, and the operation should be repeated. 

If chloride of magnesium is conjectured to exist, 30 grains of perfectly dry 
and pure carbonate of soda should first be added to the water, and this weight 
must be deducted from the total weight of the residue. 

It is of the greatest importance to perform this operation carefully. 

The solids are expressed in this country as so many grains per gallon ; in 
France, as grammes per litre. If it be wished to convert the latter into the 
former, a very nearly accurate result is given by multiplying by 70.* 

2. Determine the amount of Organic Matter. There are two principal 
modes of doing this, both of which should, if possible, be employed. 

(a.) Take the total solids determined by evaporation, and incinerate at as 
low a heat as possible, so as not to run much risk of decomposing chloride of 
magnesium, if present. Then, as carbonate of lime will have been rendered 
caustic by the heat, add a little solution of carbonic acid or carbonate of am- 
monia, and heat gently to drive off excess. Do this several times ; then dry 
thoroughly and weigh. 

The difference between this weight and that of the total solids is volatile 
matter, viz., organic matter, nitrates and nitrites in part, ammoniacal salts, 
chloride of magnesium. During the incineration 3 grains per gallon of 
chlorine from organic matter cause some blackening ; 6 grains per gallon, a 
good deal ; 10 grains per gallon, a great amount of blackening. 

(&.) The permanganate of potash has been proposed by several observers, 
and its use has been very carefully investigated by Dr Woods (Army Medical 
Staff ).t It indicates, of course, only the oxidisable organic matter ; .and, as 
already stated, animal organic matter sometimes so rapidly oxidises, that 
though nitrites exist in large amount, no substance oxidisable by permanga- 
nate of potash is Discoverable. It might be supposed that such a water is 
pure, unless the test by permanganate is supplemented by the test for nitrous 
acid. Some important organic matters, as urea, do not act at all on the 
permanganate, and even the different oxidisable matters may differ in their 
action. But still the test is a very useful one. 

It is not applicable to waters containing protosalts of iron, and if these 
exist the iron must be afterwards separately determined, and the amount of 
permanganate decolorised by it deducted. Sulphuretted hydrogen also acts 
on the permanganate. 

Weigh 1 gramme (15 '43 grains) of dry permanganate of potash, and dissolve* 
in 1 litre J (35 -28 fluid ounces) of perfectly pure distilled water. Then graduate 

* This number is obtained as follows : There are 1000 grammes in a litre, therefore the 
ratio of grammes to a litre is 1 to 1000 ; similarly there are 70,000 grains in a gallon, therefore 
the ratio of grains to a gallon is 1 to 70,000. The one proportion is to the other as 1 to 70, so 
that multiplying the hrst by 70 will give the second. The number 70 can only be used when 
grammes per litre are to be brought into grains per gallon. To bring grammes per litre into 
grains per pint, multiply by 8 '75. 

t Chemical Journal, Jan. 1863. This paper is only a short summary of a much more extended 
inquiry. 

J The French weights and measures are used in this work for the volumetric determinations 
on account of their convenience. Boxes containing them and apparatus are supplied by the 
Army Medical Department to military stations, and are sold by Mr Griffin, 119 Bunhill Kow, 
London. 
Equivalents of the French weights : 

Gramme, = 15-43 grains. 

Decigramme, = 1-543 

Centigramme, = '1543 ,, 

Milligramme, = -01543 

Litre, = 1-764 pints. 

Cubic Centimetre, = 16 -9 mins. 

28-4 C.C., =1 fluid ounce av. 



28 WATER. 

this solution with oxalic acid by taking 40 C.C. of centinormal oxalic acid* 
in 300 C.C. of pure water, and 2 C.C. of sulphuric acid ; heating to 140 Fahr., 
and dropping in the permanganate from a burette ; 13 C.C. of the permangan- 
ate should be exactly decolorised. If not, the solution is too strong or too 
weak, and correction must be made accordingly by a little calculation. Then 
take 1 litre of the water to be examined, add 2 C.C. of strong sulphuric 
acid, heat to 1 40 Fahr. ; remove lamp ; drop in solution of permanganate 
from a burette, stirring continually, and stop when the faintest pink tint is 
perceptible. If after waiting the pink tint disappears, add a little more of the 
permanganate, and so on till a tint permanent for half an hour is obtained. 
Then read off the number of C.C. used; deduct 0"24 C.C., as that quantity 
of permanganate is necessary to give a red tinge to 1 litre of water. 

We have now got the quantity of permanganate decolorised by 1 litre of 
water. Dr Woods has shown that 1 C.C. of permanganate of the above 
strength is decomposed by 0-005 grammes ( = 5 milligrammes) of oxidisable 
animal organic matter ; therefore, multiply the number of C.C. of solution of 
permanganate by O'OOS, and the result is the amount of oxidisable organic 
matter in grammes per litre. Multiply by 70 to bring into grains per gallon. 

Example. Say 1 litre of water required 23 '33 C.C. of the solution of per- 
manganate. 

23-33 - 0-24 = 23-09 corrected quantity for 1 litre. 

2 3 "09 x 005 = '11 545 grammes per litre of organic matter. 

0-115x70 = 8-08 grains per gallon of organic matter. 

Or to simplify this calculation, multiply the number of C.C. used for 1 litre 
by '35, the result is grains per gallon. Or, instead of stating it in this way, 
we may, as proposed by Nicholson, state the amount of oxygen required 
to oxidise all oxidisable matters. In the solution recommended by Dr Woods, 
1 C.C. = "00025 grammes of oxygen ; multiply then the number of C.C. used 
by this co-efficient, and the result gives the amount of oxygen in grammes 
necessary to oxidise all the organic matter. Calculate for the litre if a less 
quantity be used, and multiply by 70 to bring into grains per gallon. 

Drs Hofmann, Letheby, and Miller prefer acting on the cold water. Dr 
Miller employs a solution of permanganate containing -395 grammes in 1 litre 
of water, which is standardised by a solution of "7875 grammes of crystallised 
oxalic acid in 1 litre of water. Take 250 C.C. of water; add 2 C.C. of 
hydrochloric acid, and drop in the permanganate without using heat. Every 
fifteen minutes the water is looked at, and more permanganate is added till 
the colour is permanent for half an hour. 1 C.C. of this solution = -0001 
gramme of oxygen. Multiply this number by the number of C.C., and the 
result is the quantity of oxygen in grammes necessary to oxidise all oxidis- 
able matters in the water. 

The chloride of gold, so useful for the detection of the presence of oxidis- 
able organic matter, is less so in the examination of quantity. 

The quantity of organic matter can also be determined by converting it into 
ammonia, distilling this, and estimating its amount by the chloride of platinum 
or a standard acid. But this plan takes a longer time than the permanganate. 

3. Determine the amount of Chlorine volumetrically. Chlorine may be 
determined very rapidly by the volumetric method. 

Make a solution of pure nitrate of silver,t by dissolving 16*997 grammes 

* Centinormal solution of a salt is simply the one-hundredth of an equivalent dissolved in 1 
litre of water. The equivalent of crystallised oxalic acid being 63, the hundredth part ex- 
pressed in grammes is -63. See Chapter on FOOD Preparation of alkaline solution. 

f The common lunar caustic may be used, but as this is impure, whenever it can be done it 
should be dissolved, filtered, and crystallised, and 16'997 grammes (=262*2 grains) taken. Or 



EXAMINATION OF WATER. 29 

(one-tenth of an equivalent) in 1 litre of water. Of this solution 1 C.C. = 
0-00355 of chlorine, or 0-00585 of chloride of sodium. 

If the preliminary test shows a very small quantity of chlorine, a litre 
must be evaporated to a small bulk ; if the chlorine be in large amount, take 
at once a litre of the water to be examined ; add enough solution of yellow 
chromate of potash to make the solution just yellow, and drop in the nitrate 
of silver from the burette, and stir after each addition. The red chromate of 
silver which is first formed will disappear as long as any chlorine is present. 
Stop directly the least red tint is permanent. Deduct O'l C.C. from the 
amount of C.C. used, and multiply the remainder by the co-efficient of 
chlorine, or of chloride of sodium if it be assumed that that salt only is 
present. Neither solution of silver nor the water must be acid ; if the latter 
is acid, a little carbonate of soda must be added. 

Example. A litre of water was evaporated to about an ounce. 

A few drops of chromate of potash, and 16 '4 C.C. gave a red colour 
(16-4 - -1) x -00355 = 0-0578 grammes per litre 0-0578 x 70 - 4-04 grains 
per gallon. 

This calculation may be shortly performed by multiplying the number of 
C.C. used (after correction for colour), by '248. The result is grains per gallon. 

This process is very useful for determining the amount of salt in various 
articles of food and drink. In water it is extremely so. 

4. Determine the Hardness of the Water, which will give an approximate 
idea of the amount of Earthy Salts. When the total solids, the organic 
matter, and the chlorine, have been or are being determined, if we cannot 
attempt to pursue the examination farther from want of time or materials, 
the soap test should be employed. By it the so-called hardness of a water 
can be determined, and approximately the amount of some earthy constituents. 
The method here recommended is based on the beautiful researches of Dr 
Clark of Aberdeen. Messrs Boutron and Boudet have proposed some mo- 
difications, and have termed their method " Hydrotimetrie," * and this 
method has been slightly altered in the hygienic laboratory of the Army 
Medical School, especially by Mr Nicholson of the Army Medical Staff, who 
has also suggested a complete method of analysis based on the soap test.t 
The result is that, with a very small quantity of water, and in a short time, 
several important ingredients of water can be determined with sufficient ac- 
curacy for hygienic and economical purposes, and, as will be presently seen, 
the soap test can really be made the means of an extended analysis of water. 

Apparatus required for the Soap Test. Burette, divided into tenths of a 
cubic centimeter ; measure of 50 C.C. or 100 C.C. ; stoppered bottles of about 
4 ounces capacity. 

Solutions required. 1. Standard solution of chloride of calcium. Dissolve 
O'l gramme of pure carbonate of lime (white marble or Iceland spar) in pure 
hydrochloric acid ; evaporate to dryness ; dissolve ; evaporate again to dry- 
ness, and do this till the solution is perfectly neutral. Then dilute with 
pure water to 1000 C.C. In English weight this is 7 grains of carbonate of 
lime to 1 gallon. Label this, " Standard solution of chloride of calcium" 

2. The best way is to make a solution of ten times the strength (1 gramme 



pure silver may be dissolved in nitric acid and crystallised. The best proportions are 10 '797 
grammes (166-6 grains) in pure acid ; driving off all fumes, and dissolving in a litre of water. If 
kept in crystals, it must be carefully dried, and kept in a dark place. 

* In the French army this method is now largely employed, and chemical boxes are 
issued to army surgeons and pharmaciens. 

t Mr Nicholson's paper is published in the "Chemical Journal," Dec. 1862. Some of his 
processes are given in a subsequent page. 



30 WATEE. 



to 1 litre), or 7 grains to ^th of the gallon ( = 16 ounces), and to dilute when 
required. Label, " Concentrated solution of chloride of calcium 1 to 10." 
If a litre of the stronger solution "be made, it will last for many years. 

3. Instead of the lime solutions, nitrate of baryta may be employed. All 
the trouble of evaporation is avoided. The strength of the standard solution 
is 0'26 grammes of pure nitrate of baryta to 1 litre of water ; of the concen- 
trated solution, ten times this strength, or 2*6 grammes per litre. In English 
weights these are 18*2 grains per gallon for the standard, or 18*2 grains to 16 
ounces for the concentrated solution ; 1 part of which has to be diluted with 
9 parts of water when used. 

4. Solution of Soap. Dissolve a piece of soft potash soap of the Pharma- 
copeia in equal parts of alcohol and water ; filter and graduate. Or rub in a 
mortar, emplastrum plumbi of the Pharmacopoeia with dry carbonate? of 
potash, in the proportions of 150 to 40 or 3| to 1 ; carbonate of lead and 
oleate of potash are formed ; dissolve in rectified spirit, filter, and graduate.* 

Method of Graduation. Take 50 C.C. of the standard solution of lime 
or baryta ; put into the shaking bottle, and add to it slowly the soap solu- 
tion from the finely graduated burette, shaking vigorously after each addition, 
and placing the bottle on its side. When a thin beady lather, permanent for 
five minutes, is equally distributed over the whole surface, the process is 
complete. Head off the amount of soap solution used; if exactly 2 '2 C.C. 
have been used, the process is correct ; if less, the soap solution must be 
diluted with spirit. A simple rule will show how much spirit must be added. 
Suppose 1-6 C.C. have been used, and that the whole of the unused soap 
solution which has been made measures 210 C.C., then 

As 1-6 : 2-2 : : 210 : x 

x = 288-7 C.C. 

The 210 C.C. must then be diluted with spirit and water to 288*7 C.C. The 
solution should then be tested once more to see that it is quite correct. 

To avoid trouble, it is best always to make the soap solution too strong at 
first. 

As the accuracy of all the subsequent processes depends on this graduation, 
it is necessary to take the greatest care in the operation. 

In all cases the glasses, burettes, &c., must be perfectly clean; the least 
quantity of acid, for example, will destroy the accuracy of the process alto- 
gether. 

Rationale of the Process. When an oleate of an alkali is mixed with pure 
water, a lather is given almost immediately ; but if lime, magnesia, iron, 
baryta, alumina, or other substances of this kind be present, oleates of these 
bases are formed, and no lather is given until the earthy bases are thrown 
down. iVee (but not combined) carbonic acid prevents the lather. The 
soap combines in equivalent proportions with these bases, so that if the soap 
solution be graduated by a solution of known strength of any kind, it will be 
of equivalent strength for corresponding solutions of other bases. There are, 
however, one or two points which render the method less certain. One of 
these is, that, in the case of magnesia, there is a tendency to form double- 
salts (Playfair and Campbell), so that the determination of magnesia is never 
so accurate as in the cases of lime or baryta. Carbonic acid appears to unite 
in equivalent proportions when it is passed through the soap solution ; but 
if it be diffused in water, and then shaken up with the soap solution, two 
equivalents of the acid unite with one of soap. 



* Redwood and Wood. By this plan a very pure and unalterable soap solution is obtained. 



EXAMINATION OF WATEll. 31 

It being clearly understood that the soap test is approximative (though 
really tolerably accurate if carefully used), it will be found an extremely con- 
venient plan for medical men, as it demands very little time. 

To avoid the repetition of the term tenth of a centimeter, it will be con- 
venient to call each tenth of a centimeter a degree. 

Grammes. 
T V C.C. or 1 Soap solution, := -00014 lime. 

= -00025 carbonate of lime. 

= -00034 sulphate of lime. 

= -0002775 chloride of calcium. 

,, = -0001 magnesia. 

= -00021 carbonate of magnesia. 

= -00022 carbonic acid. 
= -00014 iron. 

Process with the Soap Test. 

1. Determine the Total Hardness of the Water. Take 50 C.C. of the 
filtered water ; put it in a small stoppered bottle, and add the soap solution 
from the burette; shaking it strongly until a thin uniform beady lather 
spreads over the whole surface without any break. If the lather is perma- 
nent for five minutes, the process is complete ; if it breaks before that time, 
add a drop or two more of the solution. 

Then read off the number of degrees of soap solution used. 

From the total number of degrees (or tenths of a centimeter) used, deduct 
two, as that amount is necessary to give a lather with the purest water, and 
this deduction has to be made in all the processes. The soap solution which 
has been used indicates the hardness due to all the ingredients which can act 
on it ; in most drinking waters there are only lime and magnesian salts, iron, 
and free carbonic acid. 

The amount of this total hardness is, for convenience, usually expressed in 
this country in the manner proposed by Dr Clark. Although dependent on 
various causes, it is expressed as equivalent to so much carbonate of lime 
per gallon, and in Clark's scale 1 grain of carbonate of lime per gallon is 
called 1 degree of hardness. Express the total hardness, therefore, in degrees 
of Clark's scale. 

This is done as follows : 

Each 0-1 C.C., or in other words, each degree, of our soap solution, corre- 
sponds to -00025 of carbonate of lime. Multiply, therefore, this co-efficient 
by the number of degrees of soap solution used, and the result is the hardness 
of 50 C.C. of water expressed as carbonate of lime. Then, as we have acted 
on one-twentieth of a litre, multiply by 20 to give the amount per litre, and 
then by 70 to bring the amount into grains per gallon. 

Example. A lather was given with 5--2 C.C., or 52 of the soap solution. 
(52 - 2) x -00025 x 20 x 70 = 17 -5 grains of carbonate of lime per gallon. 
Hardness expressed as carbonate of lime =17 -5 Clark's scale (viz., 1 
= 1 grain of CaO C0 2 per gallon). 

The same result (viz., grains per gallon) is obtained if the number of 
degrees (less 2) are multiplied by -35 ; thus 52 were used 
52 - 2 x -35 = 17-5. 

If the hardness of the water exceeds 80 of the soap solution, 25 C.C. of 
water only should be taken, and 25 C.C. of distilled water added. The 
result must then be muliplied by 2. 

This process gives very valuable information as to the total amount of 



32 WATER. 

earthy bases. And, taken in connection with the next and with the qualita- 
tive examination, it will enable any one to say whether an objectionable 
amount of earthy salts exists in the water. 

2. Determine the Permanent or Irremoveable Hardness. Boil a known 
quantity briskly for half an hour (one hour, Miller), and replace the loss by 
distilled water from time to time. 

By boiling, all carbonic acid is driven off ; all carbonate of lime, except 
about 2 grains per gallon, is thrown down ; the sulphate of lime and chloride 
of calcium are not affected if the evaporation is not carried too far; the car- 
bonate of magnesia at first thrown down is redissolved as the water cools. 
If iron is present, most of it is thrown down. When the water is cold, take 
50 C.C. and determine hardness, and calculate it again for convenience in 
Clark's scale, i.e., as equivalent to so many grains of carbonate of lime per 
gallon. 

Example. Before boiling, 52, and after boiling, 23 of the soap solution, 
were used. 

(23 - 2) x -00025 x 20 x 70 = 7'35 grains of carbonate of lime per gallon. 

As this hardness cannot be got rid of by boiling, it is called the permanent 
hardness, and the difference between the total and the permanent hardness is 
the temporary or removeable hardness, which in the example would be 17 '5 
-7'35 = 10'15 grains of carbonate of lime per gallon. 

The amount of permanent hardness is very important, as it chiefly repre- 
sents the most objectionable earthy salts viz., the sulphates and chlorides of 
calcium, and the magnesian salts. The greater the permanent hardness, the 
worse is the water. The permanent hardness of a good water should not be 
greater than 2 or 3 of Clark's scale. 

The determination, then, of 

1. The total hardness, 

2. The permanent or irremoveable hardness, 

3. The removeable or temporary hardness, 

will enable us to speak positively as to the hygienic characters of a water,* 
as far as earthy salts are concerned. 

* MM. Boutron and Boudet recommend the following plan, which is often useful, especially 
for chalk or limestone waters, but yet is only to be considered as giving approximative results. 
For the waters containing no carbonate of lime it is less applicable. 
Determine the hardness four times (always deducting 2 for the pure water), viz. : 
1 Of the simple water, = { Hardne s s of carbonic acid, lime and mag- 

l nesian salts, iron, &c. 

2. Of the boiled water (carbonic acid ^ ( Hardness of a small amount of carbonate of 

driven off, most of the carbonate V = < lime (2 grains per gallon), of lime salts other 
of lime thrown down), ( than carbonate, and of magnesian salts. 

3. Of water, to which oxalate of \ t Hardnesg of magnes ian salts, and of free car- 

ammonia has been added, and all > = < v -, 

lime thrown down, j \ borne acid. 

4. Of water freed from lime, and boiled, == Hardness of magnesian salts alone. 

From No. 4 we have at once the degrees of soap sohition, corresponding to magnesian salts. 
Deduct No. 4 from No. 3, and the difference gives us the carbonic acid hardness. 
Deduct No. 4, and an additional 6 to represent the 2 grains of carbonate of lime always left 
in solution from No. 2, and the remainder is 'the hardness attributable to salts of lime other 
than carbonate, such as sulphate, chloride. 

Deduct the hardness of the magnesian salts, carbonic acid, and salts of lime other than car- 
bonate, from the total hardness, and the remainder is the hardness which is owing to carbonate 
of lime. 

Say that, in the water, the hardness (2 being always deducted) was, for Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4 
respectively, 60, 20, 10, and 3, the further calculation would be 
No. 4. Magnesian hardness = 3. 
No. 3. Carbonic acid hardness (10- 3) = 7. 
No. 2. Salt of lime other than carbonate (20- (3 + 6) = 11. 
No. 1. Carbonate of lime (60 - (3 + 7 + 11) = 39. 



EXAMINATION OF WATER. 33 

Additional Analysts. In many cases the analysis must end here; but it 
may be desirable to carry it farther, and to determine the exact amount of 
some ingredients ; for example, lime, magnesia, iron, soda, sulphuric acid, 
silica, carbonic acid. 

It so happens that an approximate estimate can be given of several of these 
ingredients by the soap test ; and any one who has learned to properly de- 
termine the hardness of a water, will be able to carry on the process into 
finer details. , 

Lime. Lime can be determined either by weight, or approximately by the 
soap test. 

Lime by iceiglit. Take a known quantity of water ; add oxalate of ammo- 
nia, and then ammonia enough to give an ammoniacal smell. Allow precipitate 
thoroughly to subside, and then wash by decantation, or by throwing the 
precipitate on a small filter of Swedish paper, the weight of the ash of which 
is known. Decantation is recommended. If a filter is used, wash precipitate 
on filter ; dry ; scrape precipitate from filter,- and place in a platinum cru- 
cible ; burn filter to an ash, by holding it in a strong gas flame, and place it 
also in the crucible. Heat the crucible to gentle redness for fifteen minutes, 
moisten with a little water, and test with turmeric paper. If no reaction is 
given, the process is done. If the paper is browned (showing presence of 
caustic lime), recarbonate with carbonate of ammonia, drive off excess of 
ammonia, dry and weigh. 

The substance weighed is carbonate of lime ; multiply by '56, and the re- 
sult is lime. 

Lime by the Soap Test. Messrs Eoutron and Boudet have proposed, after 
determination of total hardness, to precipitate the lime by oxalate of ammonia, 
and then to determine the hardness again. The difference will be owing to 
lime removed. The difficulty here is to add enough, and not too much, of 
oxalate of ammonia, which itself in excess gives hardness. 

I have found the best way to perform this process is to have a perfectly 
concentrated clear solution of oxalate of ammonia, and to add to 50 C.C. of 
water 1 drop for every 4 of soap solution used ; then in other bottles, to add 
respectively, 1, 2, and 3 drops more. Then determine hardness of all the 
bottles, and select the result which gives the least hardness. In this way we 
can hit on the bottle which contains enough, but not too much oxalate of 
ammonia. The water need not be filtered, but it should be allowed to stand 
at least for three or four hours, or, better still, twenty-four hours, before -the 
hardness is taken. 

Then multiply the difference between, the total hardness and the hardness 
without lime, by the co-efficient , for lime; this is "00014, as each degree of 
the soap solution is equivalent to this amount of lime. 



Assuming the magnesia to exist as carbonate of magnesia, and the salts of lime other than 
carbonate to be sulphate but this is merely a convenient assumption multiply the degrees by 
the co-efficients, and then by 20 to bring out grammes per litre, and by 70, to bring into grains 
per gallon. Thus 

Carbonate of lime, 39 x -00025 x 20 x 70 = 13-650 grains per gallon. 

Sulphate of lime, 11 x -00034 x 20 x 70 = 5'236 

Carbonate of magnesia, 3 x -00021 x 20 x 70 = 0-882 ,, 

Carbonic acid, free, 7 x -65 = 4-55 cubic inches per gallon. 

This calculation may be shortened by using the following numbers : 
For carbonate of lime, multiply degrees by -35 ; the result is grains per gallon. 
For sulphate of lime, multiply degrees by -476 ; the result is grains per gallon. 
For carbonate of magnesia, multiply degrees by '294 ; the result is grains per gallon. 

These numbers are obtained by simply multiplying the co-efficients by 20 and 70. 

C 



34 WATER. 

Example. Total hardness, . . 52 

After lime precipitated, . 10 

Difference, . 42 

42 x -00014 x 20 x 70 = 8-232 grains of lime per gaUon. 

Or, to save trouble, multiply tlie number of degrees by -196 ; the result is 
grains per gallon. If carefully done this result will be near the truth. 

Magnesia by weight. Take the water from which the lime has been 
thrown down ; evaporate to a small bulk ; filter if there be turbidity ; add 
solution of chloride of ammonium and ammonia to slight excess ; then add a 
solution of phosphate of soda ; stir with a glass rod ; set aside for twelve 
hours ; throw precipitate on a filter, carefully detaching it from the sides of 
the glass ; wash with ammoniacal water ; dry ; incinerate in an intense heat ; 
weigh, taking care to deduct the ash of the filter known by previous experi- 
ment. The substance is pyrophosphate of magnesia ; multiply by "36036 to 
get the amount of magnesia. 

Magnesia ly the Soap Test. Boutron and Boudet propose to determine 
the magnesia by boiling the water from which the lime has been thrown 
down. All usual elements of hardness, except the magnesia, are thus got rid 
of. The objection to the process is the possibility that the magnesia may 
form a double salt with the soap. (Campbell Playfair.) 

Take 50 C.C. of water ; add to it the number of drops of solution of 
oxalate of ammonia found to be sufficient in !N~o. 3 ; allow to stand for three 
or four hours ; boil for half an hour, replace loss by distilled water ; allow to 
cool, and determine hardness, which is owing to magnesian salts. 

Calculate as magnesia, the co-efficient of which, for each degree of soap 
solution, is -0001, or, as carbonate of magnesia, the co-efficient of which is 
00021. 

Example. Hardness, after driving off carbonic acid by boiling and pre- 
cipitating lime, = 11. 

(11 - 2) x -0001 x 20 x 70 = 1-26 grains of magnesia per gallon. 

Or, to save trouble, multiply the number of degrees by -14 ; the result is 
grains per gallon. 

This result is merely approximative, but it is really always nearer the truth 
than the determination by weighing in the hands of a beginner. 

Soda by weight. The quantity of lime and magnesia must be known 
and calculated as sulphates ; the silica and iron must also have been deter- 
mined. 

Take the total solids after their determination by evaporation ; add cau- 
tiously dilute sulphuric acid, avoiding loss by spurting ; warm gently for 
ten minutes; then evaporate to dryness; ignite, adding at the last a little 
carbonate of ammonia : weigh. 

The substance weighed is composed of silica and iron, and sulphates of 
lime, magnesia, and soda. The weights of all the first-named substances 
being known, and deducted from the total weight, the residue is the weight 
of sulphate of soda. Multiply by '43662 ; the result is soda (NaO). 

Ammonia. Dr Miller recommends the following plan : Mix J litre with 
1 fluid ounce of baryta water, and distil J. Divide the distillate into two 
equal parts, and add Nessler's test to one. If much ammonia be present, a 
precipitate occurs ; then take the other half and dilute until nothing amount- 
ing to a precipitate but only a decidedly yellow coloration is produced. This 



EXAMINATION OF WATER. 35 

Dr Miller compares with the tint given by adding Xessler's test to a* highly 
dilute solution of sal-ammoniac of known strength. 

Sulphuric Acid l>y weight. Take a known quantity of water (500 to 
1000 C.C.) ; evaporate to a small bulk; acidify with hydrochloric acid, 
and add chloride of barium ; wash by decantation ; dry and weigh. The 
substance is sulphate of baryta ; multiply by -34309 to get the amount of 

so p 

Sulphuric Acid by Soap Test. This plan was proposed by Boutron and 
Boudet, and is briefly as follows : The hardness of the water being known, 
50 C.C. of the weak barytic solution are added to 50 C.C. of water, and the 
mixture is allowed to stand for 24 hours. The hardness (supposing no SO. } 
were present) would be exactly equal to the original hardness of the water, 
and of the barytic solution, combined. But S0 3 being present, sulphate of 
baryta is precipitated, and there is a loss of hardness. Each degree of loss 
equals '0002 of anhydrous sulphuric acid (S0 3 ). 



Example. Original hardness, ..... 62 
50 C.C. barytic solution, .... 22 

84 
After precipitation, , . . . . 71'2 



Difference, . . . . 12 -8 
0002 x 12-8 x 20 x 70 - 3-584 grains per gallon of S0 3 . 

Usually this process gives good results. Occasionally, from some cause of 
which I am ignorant, the sulphate of baryta does not precipitate. This does 
not depend on the amount of sulphuric acid. The ease with which this pro- 
cess is done renders it useful. 

Iron. Evaporate one litre, or half a litre, of the water to dryness ; incinerate 
to destroy organic matter ; if iron be present, the ash will be red. Dissolve 
in a small quantity of sulphuric acid ; add zinc to reduce the iron to prot- 
oxide; dilute to 100 C.C. or any convenient quantity, and warm to 140 
Fahr. Put the solution of permanganate of potash,* graduated for the organic 
matter, into a burette, and add it to the water till the faintest red tint is per- 
manent. Calculate how much would be used for the litre, and deduct 0*24 
C.C. Multiply remainder by co-efficient of iron, or oxide or carbonate of iron. 

Grammes. 
1 C.C. of permanganate, = -00172 iron. 

= -002211 protoxide of iron. 

= '003562 carbonate of iron. 

If a water contains both oxidisable organic matter and iron, two operations 
must be done with the permanganate ; the first on the water itself ; this will 
show the total amount of permanganate destroyed by the two substances 

* This solution of permanganate is merely used because it has been already graduated for the 
organic matter. Otherwise it is more convenient to use a decinormal solution of the perman- 
ganate, or to use the bichromate of potash, which, in some respects, is superior to the per- 
manganate ; as 1 atom of bichromate gives up 3 atoms of oxygen, the decinormal solution is 
^th of an equivalent (= 4-919 grammes) dissolved in 1000 C.C ; 1 C.C. is equal to ^f^th 
atom of a protosalt, or y-^^th of a persalt ( TT ^ T th atom of iron = -00028). The end of the 
reaction is known by bringing a drop of the mixture in contact with a drop of freshly prepared 
red prussiate of potash on a white slab (Siitton's Volumetric Analysis, p. 94). The colour at 
the point of contact is blue as long as protoxide of iron exists, then is green, and then brownish ; 
the disappearance of the greenish-blue tint indicates the point at which all the iron is oxidised. 

C2 



3G WATER. 

together ; the second on the ash ; this will show the amount of permanganate 
destroyed by iron. If the latter amount is deducted from the former, the 
remainder gives the amount of permanganate of potash oxidised by the organic 
matter alone. 

Silica and Iron. Take the dried solids ; add strong hydrochloric acid ; 
evaporate to dryness ; dissolve everything that will come away by repeated 
washing with hot water. Weigh remainder as silica and iron mixed. 

The amounts of the Nitric and Phosphoric Acids had better not be deter- 
mined by weight. If it is wished to do so, refer to Fresenius' " Quantitative 
Chemical Analysis." 

Free Carbonic Acid Determination by the Soap Test. In order to get rid 
of the fallacy from free carbonic acid acting on the soap, Clark recommended 
that the water should be well shaken in a bottle, so as to disengage some of 
the C0 2 , and then that the air should be sucked out. But this does not 
entirely remove the carbonic acid. 

By the soap test the free carbonic acid can be determined in the following 
way : Throw down all the lime carefully by oxalate of ammonia, without add- 
ing an excess, and determine the hardness in 50 C. C. as usual. The hardness 
will be owing to magnesian salts, iron, if it exists (or alumina or baryta in 
mineral waters), and carbonic acid. If, now, the water, freed from lime, be 
boiled, and the loss of water replaced by distilled water, the carbonic acid 
will be driven off. The hardness should be then again determined. The 
difference between the first and second trials will (if no iron exist in the 
water), give the amount of soap solution which had been previously acted on 
by the carbonic acid. 

Example. 1. Total magnesian and carbonic acid hardness, = 12 
2. Magnesian hardness, . . . = 7 

Carbonic acid hardness, . = 5 

1 of soap solution corresponds to '00022 grammes carbonic acid. Therefore 
00022 x 5 x 20 x 70 - 1 -54 grains per gallon. 

As 2-116 cubic inches weigh one grain, multiply the number of grains by 
2-116 to bring into cubic inches per gallon. 

1-54 x 2-116 = 3-25 cubic inches. 

Or, to shorten the calculation, multiply the number of degrees of soap solution 
by -65 ; the result is the amount of cubic inches per gallon. 

5 x *65 -- 3 -25 cubic inches per gallon. 

If iron exists in. the water, it must be determined and its amount deducted ; 
1 of soap solution corresponds to -00014 grammes of iron (Fe). 

Mr Nicholson has proposed another process which is more accurate, but 
demands more time and care. 

Determine the total hardness of the water. Then to another known quan- 
tity of water add a few drops of sulphuric acid ; evaporate to dryness ; drive 
off carefully the excess of S0 3 ; dissolve in an equal quantity of pure water, 
and determine the hardness again. The S0 3 converts all the salts into sul- 
phates, but their hardness remains the same ; the C0 2 is, however, driven off, 
and the difference between the first and second determination represents the 
carbonic acid. The calculation is made as before.* 



* It must be remembered that it is only the free and not the combined carbonic acid which 
is estimated. 



EXAMINATION OF WATER. 



37 



Recapitulation of t/ie Schema for the Rapid Examination of Water. 

1. Take physical characters. 

2. Set aside a portion to stand. In twenty-four hours examine sediment, 
if any, with the microscope. 

3. Measure a portion of water, and set it to boil for half an hour. 

4. Take another portion ; add a few drops of terchloride of gold, and set it 
to boil. 

5. Arrange test tubes or glasses. Put some of the water in each, and test 
for lime, sulphuric acid, chlorine, and nitric and nitrous acid. 

If time permit, pursue the examination farther. 

6. Evaporate for total solids, and then incinerate carefully, so as to divide 
into fixed and volatile matters. 

7. Determine oxidisable organic matter by permanganate. 

8. Determine amount of chlorine. 

9. Determine the hardness of the simple and boiled water. 

By these simple means we obtain all the hygienic information that is really 
important and necessary. If we know the total solids, the amount of organic 
matter, the amount of chlorine, which will show us whether the water is 
impregnated with sea water or sewage, and the approximative amount of the 
earthy salts, as determined by the hardness, we can without hesitation express 
a confident opinion that the water is good or bad. 

If time permit, the examination can be pushed farther : 

Determine amount of lime and magnesia by soap test or by weight. 

Determine amount of sulphuric and carbonic acids by soap test. 

Determine amount of iron and silica. 

Determine amount of soda by weight. 

Calculate according to the formula given at a former page. 

Scheme for the Registration of the Condition of the Water at 
Different Stations. 

If analyses were made frequently at each station, and a record left in the 
office, the successive medical officers would be able to learn at once the com- 
position of the water and its changes during the year in floods, dry seasons, 
&c. Of course, any elaborate analyses could not be expected, but the follow- 
ing short scheme would give much useful information : 

Example of a Simple Table proposed to be hung up in the Surgery of each 
Station. Of course, whenever practicable, it should be extended. I have 
here given only the facts of greatest moment. 



.2 
m 


& 


1 


Per gallon in grains. 


Hardness 
Clark's scale. 


g 


i 


3 















a 


1 




| 


1? 


I 1 


'|S 





ti 

.5 


| 


1 


1 




1 

a 


P 


w 




s 


'o 





1 




1 

Q 





1 


s 


11 


6 & 


fit 


6 


1 

H 


1 




Slightly 


A little sand 


N 
















hazy. 


and vege- 
















1864, 
June 20. 


Tasteless. 
No odour. 


table mat- 
ter. 


17;6 


2-3 


0-75. 


0373 


2-2 


8-4 


26 






A few para- 




















mecia. 


J 















38 WATER. 



SECTION IV. 

SUB-SECTION I. PURIFICATION OF WATER. 
Without Filtration. 

1. Exposure to Air in divided currents. This was a plan proposed by Lind, 
for the water of the African west coast, more than 100 years ago, and 
frequently revived since. The water is simply poured through a sieve, or a 
tin or wooden plate, pierced with many small holes, so as to cause it to fall in 
finely divided streams. A similar plan, advised by Mr Osbridge, has been 
used in the Royal Navy. A hand-pump is inserted in a cask of water, and 
the water is pumped up, and made to fall through perforated sheets of tin. 
It soon removes hydrosulphuric acid, offensive organic vapours, and, it is said, 
dissolved organic matter. 

2. Boiling and agitation. This plan gets rid of carbonate of lime, iron in 
part, and hydrosulphuric acid, and lessens, it is said, organic matter. 

3. Addition of Alum. Six grains per gallon throw down almost all sus- 
pended matters ; the alumina falls as a basic salt ; the sulphuric acid remains 
in solution. The alum should, if possible, be added twenty-four hours before 
the water is used. 

4. Addition of Lime Water (Clark's patent). By combining with carbonic 
acid, it causes almost all the carbonate of lime previously and newly formed 
to be thrown down. It also throws down suspended and perhaps dissolved 
organic matters, and also, it is said, iron. It does not touch the sulphate and 
chlorides of lime and magnesia. 

5. Addition of Permanganate of Potash, or Soda (Condy's fluid and powder). 
It destroys organic matter and ammoniacal compounds by rapid oxidation, 
and may be used with advantage for this purpose. Used for the water of 
ponds charged with putrefying organic matters, it purifies the water almost 
instantaneously (Hofmann). The peroxide of manganese subsides, and can 
be separated by filtration. 

6. Carbonate of Soda, with boiling, throws down lime, and possibly a little 
lead, if present. 

7. Use of the Strychnos potatorum. In India, this nut is rubbed on the 
inside of casks, and is supposed to purify water from organic matter. 

8. Immersion of Iron Wire and Magnetic Oxide of Iron (Medlock). This 
plan is said to decompose organic matter. Charcoal and peroxide of iron are 
sometimes mixed. 

9. Immersion or boiling of certain Vegetables, especially those containing 
tannin ; such as tea,* kino, the Laurier rose (Nerium Oleander, which is also 
rubbed on the inside of casks in Barbary), bitter almonds (in Egypt). 

10. Immersion of small pieces of Charcoal, and charring the inside of Casks. 
This is an extremely effectual plan, but the charcoal soon loses its power, 
and requires to be renewed. Berthollet considered that the charring of the 
casks was more effectual than the immersion ; the charring can be renewed 
from time to time. Lowitz advises that a little sulphuric acid (10 drops to 

* In the North of China, and especially during winter, the water of the Peiho becomes very 
impure, and contains not only suspended matters, but dissolved animal matter in large quantity, 
which gives the water a disagreeable offensive smell. The Chinese never drink it except as tea, 
which is cooled with a lump of ice, if it is desired to drink it cold. In this way they secure them- 
selves from all bad effects of this water (Friedel, Das Klima. Ost-Asiens, p. 60). The Europeans 
use alum and charcoal ; but these do not always entirely remove the taste. The Tartars also 
UM; their "brick tea" to purify the water of the Steppes, which would otherwise be undrinkable. 



I 



PURIFICATION OF WATER. 39 

1 lb. of charcoal) shall be added. A mixture of some of these substances has 
beenfused, as lime and alum (1 part to 2), or carbon and alum (4 parts to 1). 

To put these facts in another form : 

Organic matter is got rid of most readily by exposure to air, boiling, 
agitation, charcoal, alum, permanganate of potash, Strychnos potatorum, 
astringents. 

Carbonate of lime, by boiling and addition of caustic lime. 

Chloride of sodium, by filtration through a great depth of charcoal or sand. 

Iron, by boiling and lime water, and in part by charcoal. Lead and copper, 
are also removed or lessened by pure charcoal.* 

Sulphate and chlorides of lime, and of magnesia, cannot be got rid of, but are 
perhaps lessened a little by filtration through charcoal. 

It should also be remembered that some water plants have a purifying effect, 
apparently from the large quantity of oxygen they give out ; and this takes 
place sometimes though the water itself is green. 

With Filtration. 

On the large scale, water is received into settling reservoirs, where the most 
bulky substances subside, and is then filtered through gravel and sand, either 
by ascent or descent, or alternately one and the other (Thorn, at Paisley). A 
sort of trap rock (amygdaloid) has been used instead of sand at Greenock, and 
is said to be very useful in peaty discoloration (Thorn). Mr Witt's experi- 
ments show that sand removes about 5 per cent, of organic matter, but not 
more than 0'2 per cent, of mineral substances. It is said, however, that a very 
great thickness of sand will in part purify from chloride of sodium ; and Pro- 
fessor Clark has stated that lead is also lessened or removed by this plan. 

On a smaller scale, a great number of substances have been used ; animal 
and vegetable charcoal, charcoal and soda (Lipscombe), magnetic iron ores and 
luumatite, peroxide of manganese, flannel, wool, sponge, porous sandstones, 
natural and artificial, &c. 

Of all these substances, charcoal is the best ; it can remove 88 per cent, of 
organic matter, and 28 per cent of mineral matters. It has removed 7 '4 8 per 
cent, of the chloride of sodium, 8 '5 per cent, of the lime salts, and 2 '3 per 
cent, of the sulphuric acid (Witt). One part of animal charcoal purifies 136 
times its weight of any impure water, and 1 part of vegetable charcoal 116 times 
(Gaultier de Claubry). But if the water be moderately good, 1 part of charcoal 
will purify 600 times its own weight of water ; or 1 lb. will purify 600 Ibs. 
or 60 gallons. 

Animal charcoal is better than vegetable charcoal ; both lose their power 
in a certain time, but regain it when exposed to air, and still more quickly if 
slight heat be employed. Every now and then, therefore, the charcoal should 
be removed, thoroughly dried, and freely exposed to the air. 

The thickness of charcoal should be considerable ; in the best filters it is 
very closely pressed. 

The effect of the charcoal is partly mechanical, but chiefly chemical; the 
large quantity of oxygen in its pores is brought into the closest contact with 
any oxidisable matters in the water. It must be remembered, however, that 
charcoal is often itself impure, and can communicate some salts to water. 

In very large quantities, charcoal will, it is said, remove sufficient salt from 
sea water to render it potable with wine. Lately, M. Garden has recom- 
mended a siphon, the long leg of which is filled with charcoal. The action 



Chevallier, Traite cles Desinfect. r- 



40 



WATER. 



is started with fresh water, and then sea water is allowed to flow through. 
There might be circumstances in which distillation of sea water could not "be 
carried on, and then this plan might be useful. 

In Lipscombe's patent, carbonate of soda is mixed with the charcoal ; its 
utility is doubtful, and it must soon be dissolved out. 

The filter patented by M. Fouvielle, in Paris, is composed of 9 layers of 
sponges, pounded sandstone, and gravel. That of M. Souchon is made up 
chiefly of diaphragms of wool ; the wool having been previously boiled in solu- 
tion of alum and cream of tartar, and then dyed in infusion of gall-nuts, and 
washed in solution of carbonate of soda. 



SUB-SECTION II. STORAGE or WATER. 

The amount of storage required will depend on circumstances, viz., the 
amount used, and the ease of replenishing. It is, of course, easy to calculate 
the space required when these conditions are known, in this way : The 
number of gallons required daily for the whole population must be divided 
by 6-23 to bring into cubic feet, and multiplied by the number of days which 
the storage must last ; the product is the necessary size of the reservoir in 
cubic feet. 

Many waters, particularly rain water, must be filtered through sand before 
they pass into small cisterns, and the filter should be cleaned every three or 
four months. The following is the filter recommended by the Barrack Com- 



mission : 



moveaLle-coverinff j-tone 



Paving 



Level of Ground. 




Fig. 3. 

A filter made up of animal charcoal is now frequently placed in the London 
cisterns (Danchell's patent) ; the water is made to ascend through it, and is 
then drawn off by a tap ; it is said to answer well. 

Whatever be the size of the reservoir, it should be kept carefully clean, 
and no possible source of contamination should be permitted. In the large 
reservoirs for town supply, the water is sometimes rendered impure by floods 
washing surface refuse into them, or by substances being thrown in. 

Some large cities are still supplied principally by rain water, as Con- 
stantinople where, under the houses, are enormous cisterns Venice, and 



Report on the Mediterranean Stations, 1863. 



PURIFICATION UF WATEK. 41 

places.* Gibraltar is in part supplied in this way, and there was 
storage in the military tanks, in 1861, for 1,971,844 gallons. No house is 
now allowed to "be built in Gibraltar without a tank. 

As far as possible, all reservoirs, tanks, &c., should be covered in; in form, 
they should be deep rather than extended, so as to lessen evaporation, and 
secure coolness. Though they should be periodically and carefully cleaned, 
it would appear that it is not always wise to disturb water plants which may 
be growing in them ; some plants, as the Protococcus, the Chara, and others, 
give out a very large amount of oxygen, and thus oxidise and render in- 
nocuous the organic matter which may be dissolved in the water or volatilised 
from the surface, t Dr Chevers mentions that the water of some tanks which 
were ordered to be cleared of water plants by Sir Charles Napier, deteriorated 
in quality. Other plants, however, as some species of duckweed (Lemna at 
home, Pistia in the tropics), are said to contain an acrid matter which they 
give off to the water. It would be well to remove some of the plant, place 
it in pure water in a glass vessel, and try by experiment whether the amount 
of organic matter in the water is increased, or whether any taste is given to 
the water. Dead vegetable matter should never find its way into, or at any 
rate remain in, a reservoir. 

Whenever a reservoir is so large that it cannot be covered in, a second 
smaller covered tank, capable of holding a few days' supply, might be pro- 
vided, and this might be fitted with, a filter, through which the water of the 
large reservoir might be led as required. 

When tanks are large, they are made of earth, stones, or masonry ; if 
mortar be used, it should, as in the case of the smaller reservoirs, be hydraulic, 
so that it may not be acted on by the water. 

The materials of small reservoirs and cisterns are stone, cement, brick, 
slate, tiles, lead, zinc, and iron. Of these slate is the best, but it is rather 
liable to leakage, and must be set in good cement ; common mortar must not 
be used for stone or cement, as lime is taken up and the water becomes hard. 
Leaden cisterns, as in the case of leaden pipes, may yield lead to water, and 
should be used as little as possible, or should be protected. Lead cisterns are 
often corroded by mud or mortar, even when no lead is dissolved in the water. 
Iron cisterns and pipes are often rapidly eaten away. Zinc has been said to 

* The following account of the cisterns of Venice may be interesting (Chemical News, August 
1862, from the Scientific American) : 

" The city of Venice is wholly supplied with rain water, which is retained in cisterns. The 
city occupies an area of about 13,000 acres. The annual average fall of rain is 31 inches, the 
greater part of which is collected in 2077 cisterns, 177 of which are public. The rain is 
sufficiently abundant to fill the cisterns five times in the course of the year, so that the distri- 
bution of water is at the rate of 312 gallons per head. To construct a cistern after the Venetian 
fashion, a large hole is dug in the ground to the depth of about 9 feet. The sides of the 
excavation are supported by a framework made of good oak timber, and the cistern has thus 
the appearance of a square truncated pyramid, with the wider base turned upward. A coating 
of pure and compact clay, 1 foot thick, is now applied on the wooden frame with great care ; this 
opposes an invincible obstacle to the progress of the roots of any plants growing in the vicinity, 
and also to the pressure of the water in contact with it. No crevices are left which might 
allow the air to penetrate. This preliminary work being done, a large circular stone, partly 
hollowed out like the bottom of a kettle, is deposited in the pyramid with the cavity upward ; 
and on this foundation a cylinder of well-baked bricks is constructed, having no interstices 
whatever, except a number of conical holes in the bottom row. The large vacant space 
remaining between the sides of the pyramid and cylinder is filled with well-scoured sea sand. 
At the four corners of the pyramid they place a kind of stone trough covered with a stone lid 
pierced with holes. These troughs communicate with each other by means of a small rill made 
of bricks, and resting on the sand ; and the whole is then paved over. The rain water coming 
from the roofs of the buildings runs into the troughs, penetrates into the sand through the 
rills, and is thus filtered into the well-hole by the conical holes already described. The water 
thus supplied is limpid, sweet, and cool." 

t Clemens in Archiv. fur Physiol. Heilk. 1853. 



42 WATER. 

to be a good material ; water acts a little upon it, but generally the com- 
pounds formed (hydrated oxide, ulmate of zinc*) are almost insoluble. Never- 
theless, water passing through zinc pipes produces occasionally symptoms of 
metallic poisoning.t 

Cisterns should always be well covered, and protected as much as possible 
from both heat and light. Care should always be taken that there is no 
chance of leakage of pipes into them. A common source of contamination is 
an overflow pipe passing direct into a sewer, so that the sewer gases pass up, 
and being confined by the cover of the cistern, are absorbed by the water ; to 
prevent this, the overflow pipe is curved so as to retain a little water and 
form a trap, but the water often evaporates, or the gases force their way 
through it ; no overflow pipe should therefore open into a sewer, but should 
end above ground over a trapped grating. Cisterns should be periodically 
and carefully inspected ; and in every new building, if they are placed at the 
top of a house, convenient means of access should be provided. 

SUB-SECTION III. DISTRIBUTION OP WATER. 

When houses are removed from sources of water, the supply must be by 
aqueducts and pipes. The distribution by hand, formerly so common in this 
country, and still practised in India, is a rude and objectionable arrangement, 
for it is impossible to supply the proper quantity, and the risks of contamina- 
tion are increased. Some of the most extraordinary of the Roman works in 
both the eastern and western empires were undertaken for the supply of 
water works whose ruins excite the astonishment, and should rouse the 
emulation of modern nations. 

The pipes are composed of iron, masonry, or earthenware for the larger 
pipes or mains, the iron being sometimes tinned or galvanised; for the 
smaller pipes, iron, lead, tin, zinc, tinned copper, earthenware, gutta percha, 
&c., are used. 

Eituminised paper pipes were some time since brought into the market, 
but they have not succeeded ; after a time they become soft. Pipes of arti- 
ficial stone are now, it is said, able to be made. Iron is the best material for 
the larger pipes, and iron or non-metallic substances for the smaller pipes. 
(For the action on lead, see next page.) The distribution of water is either 
intermittent, when the water flows at certain times from its source or reser- 
voir into cisterns, and is there stored for a time ; or it is continuous, when 
the house pipes are connected always with the main reservoir. 

The latter plan gives a constant supply, and avoids all chances of contamin- 
ation of cisterns. It has, therefore, been strongly advocated by some of the 
best sanitarians of our time, and is employed in several English towns. It 
has, however, some disadvantages. The waste of water is considerable, and 
chance of leakage also. As in many instances where the system has been 
adopted, the supply of water is much larger than the population demand, 
the loss of water at first causes no inconvenience ; but if the population 
increases, or if the supply is only just sufficient from the first, the waste 
is sometimes a great evil, and in some cases has been almost intolerable. 
Various plans have been tried water meters and payments by quantity; but 
then the effect was to lead to such economy on the part of the tenants, as to 
lead to depressed rates, and to almost ruin the water company. Some com- 
panies bound to a constant supply have introduced a kind of throttle into 



* Fonssagrives, Ann. d'Hyg. Jan. 1864, p. 857. 

f My friend, Dr Orsborn, of Bitternc, has seen several cases of this kind. 



service-pipe, which allows only a dribble into the house ; but this is bad, 
as there are certain times when much water is wanted, and times when little 
is used ; the invariable dribble gives too little or too much. 

On the whole, cisterns are probably a necessity unless the supply of water 
can meet a very great demand ; then the constant system should be adopted. 

Water should be distributed not only to every house, but to every floor in 
a house. If this is not done, i labour is scarce in the houses of poor people, 
the water is used several times ; it becomes a question of labour and trouble 
versus cleanliness and health, and the latter too often give way. Means must 
also be devised for the speedy removal of dirty water from houses for the 
same reasons. 

SUB-SECTION IV. 1. ACTION OF WATER ON LEAD PIPES. 

There are more discrepancies of opinion on this subject than might have 
been anticipated. 

From an analysis of most of the works, the following points appear to be 
the most certain : 

1. The waters which act most on lead are the purest and most highly 
oxygenated ; also those containing organic matter, nitrites (Medlock),* nitrates, 
and according to several observers, chlorides. Besides the portion dissolved, a 
film or crust is often formed, especially at the time of contact of water and 
air ; this crust consists usually of 2 parts of carbonate of lead and 1 part of 
hydrated oxide. The mud of several rivers, even the Thames, will corrode 
lead, probably from the organic matter it contains, but it does not necessarily 
follow that any lead has been dissolved in the water. Bits of mortar will 
also corrode lead. 

2. The waters which act least on lead are those containing carbonic acid,t 
carbonate of lime, and in a less degree, sulphate of lime ; and, perhaps, in a 
still less degree, magnesian salts, and the phosphates of the alkalies ; J but 
it has been said that perfectly pure water, containing no gases, has no action 
on lead. The deposit which frequently coats the lead, consists of carbonate 
and sulphates of lead, lime, and magnesia, if the water have contained these 
salts, and chloride of lead. 

3. From the observations of Graham, Hofmann, and Miller, the protective 
influence of carbonic acid gas appears to be very great ; a difficultly soluble 
carbonate of lead is formed. However, a very great excess of free carbonic 
acid may dissolve this. This has perhaps led to the statement that carbonic 
acid counteracts the preservative effects of the salts. || 

Other substances may find their way into water, which may act on lead as 
vegetable and fatty acids, arising from fruits, vegetables, &c., or sour milk or 
cider, &c. 

4. The lead itself is more easily acted upon if other metals, as iron, zinc, or 
tin are in juxta-position ; galvanic action is produced. Bending lead pipes 
against the grain, and thus exposing the structure of the metal, also increases 
the risk of solution; zinc pipes, into the composition of which lead often 

* Medlock attributes the greatest influence to nitrite of ammonia formed from organic matter ; 
nitrite of lead is rapidly formed, and carbonate is then produced ; the nitrous acid being set free 
to act on another portion of lead. The nitrite of ammonia exists in most distilled water. 

f In a late paper, M. Langlois (Rec. de Mem. de Med. Mil. 1865, p. 412) attributes a great 
.action on lead to the carbonic acid, but states that the carbonate of lime entirely protects lead, 
especially, as I understand him, by rendering the carbonic acid inactive. 

4: Report of the Government Commission, 1851, p. 7. 

Lander Lindsay, Action of Hard Water on Lead, p. 7. 

|| '['here is some discrepancy of opinion as to the action of the chlorides. 



44 WATER. 

enters, yield lead in large quantities to water, and this lias been especially 
the case with the distilled water on board ships. 

2. AMOUNT OF DISSOLVED LEAD WHICH WILL PRODUCE SYMPTOMS OF POISONING. 



Dr Angus Smith refers to cases of lead paralysis in which as little as 
of a grain per gallon was in the water. Adams also (" Trans, of the 
American Medical Society," 1852, p. 163) speaks of T -o<jth of a grain causing 
poisoning. Graham speaks of -g\ih. of a grain per gallon as being innocuous. 
Angus Smith says that ^th of a grain per gallon may affect some persons, 
while yL-th of a grain per gallon may be required for others. But it is diffi- 
cult to prove it may not at some time have been more than this. Calvert 
found that water which had been decidedly injurious in Manchester, contained 
from -j^th to T \ths of a grain per gallon. 

In the celebrated case of the poisoning of Louis Philippe's family at 
Claremont, the amount of lead was -/^ths of a grain per gallon ; this quantity 
affected 34 per cent, of those who drank the water. 

The water of Edinburgh is said to contain only yJoth of a grain per gallon, 
which is not hurtful.* 

On the whole, it seems probable that any quantity over ^g-th of a grain per 
gallon should be considered dangerous, and that some persons may even be 
affected by less quantities, t 

3. PROTECTION OP LEAD PIPES. 

The chief means which have been proposed are : 

(a.) Lining with tin. Gal vert's experiments :[ show that extra tinned and 
ordinary tinned lead piping both gave up lead to the pure water now used at 
Manchester. 

(&.) Fusible metal, vk., lead, bismuth, and tin. This is certainly objection- 
able. 

(c.) Bituminous coating (M'Dougall's patent). This is said to be effectual, 
but I am not aware of any exact experiments. 

(d.) Various gums, resins, gutta perch a, and india-rubber. These would 
probably be efficacious, but I am ignorant of any evidence to show how long 
they will adhere. 

(e.) Coating interior of pipes with sulphide of lead by boiling the pipes in 
sulphide of sodium for fifteen minutes. The sulphide of sodium may be made 
by boiling sulphur in liquor soda3. (Schwartz's patent.) 

(/.) Rosin and grease with white lead(!) has been proposed, also rosin and 
arsenic. Both are most objectionable. 

(g.) Varnish of coal tar. 

4. SUBSTITUTES FOR LEAD PIPES. 

Cast-iron pipes can be used, and Mr Rawlinson informs me that he now 
orders no others. Copper tinned and block-tin are also used, and botk are 
excellent, but are rather expensive. Zinc, which speedily gets covered with 
an insoluble oxide, can be used, if the water contains carbonate of lime, as 
this is said to prevent the free carbonic acid from dissolving the oxide. 
Gutta percha and bituminised paper pipes have been proposed, but at present 
are not in much, if in any, use. 



* Chemical News, September 28, 1861. 

t See also Taylor's Med. Jurisp., 1865, p. 242 ; and opinions of Penny, ibid., p. 241. 

t Chemical News, September 28, 1861. 

Lander Lindsay, Action of Hard Water on Lead, p. 21. 



SUPPLY OF WATER. 45 



SUB-SECTION V. SEARCH AFTER WATER. 

Occasionally, a medical officer may be in a position in which he haa to 
search for water. Few precise rules can be laid down. 

On a plain, the depth at which water will be found will depend on the 
permeability of the soil, and the depth at which hard rock or clay will hold 
up water. The plain should be well, surveyed ; and if any part seems below 
the general level, a well should be sunk. The part most covered with herb- 
age is likely to have the water nearest the surface. On a dry sandy plain, 
morning mists or swarms of insects are said sometimes to mark water below, 
Near the sea, water is generally found ; even close to the sea it may be fresh, 
if a large body of fresh water flowing from higher ground holds back the salt 
water. But usually wells sunk near the sea are brackish ; and it is necessary 
to sink several, passing farther and farther inland, till the point is reached 
where the fresh water has the predominance. 

Among hills the search for water is easier. The hills store up water, which 
runs off into plains at their feet. Wells should be sunk at the foot of hills, 
not on a spur, but, if possible, at the lowest point ; and if there are any in- 
dications of a Avater-course, as near there as possible. In the valleys among 
hills, the junction of two long valleys will, especially if there is any narrow- 
ing, generally give water. The outlet of the longest valleys should be chosen, 
and if there is any trace of the junction of two water-courses, the well should 
be sunk at their union. In a long valley with a contraction, Avater should be 
sought for on the mountain side of the contraction. In digging at the side of 
a valley, the side with the highest hills should be chosen. 

Before commencing to dig, the country should be as carefully looked over as 
time and opportunity permit, and the dip of the strata made out, if possible. 
A little search will sometimes show which is the direction of fall from high 
grounds or a water-shed. 

If moist ground only is reached, the insertion of a tub pierced with holes 
deep into the moist ground will sometimes cause a good deal of water to be 
collected. 

SUB-SECTION VI. SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS ON THE SUPPLY OF 
WATER TO SOLDIERS. 

In barracks and hospitals, and in all usual stations, all that has to be done 
is to make periodical examinations of the quantity and quality of the water, 
to inspect the cisterns, &c. , and to consider frequently if in any way wells or 
cisterns can have become contaminated. As far as possible, a record should 
be kept at each station of the normal composition of the water. 

In transport ships, the water and the casks or tanks should always be 
examined before going to sea. Alum, charcoal, and permanganate of potash 
should be taken to sea. If the water turns out bad, it must not at once 
be condemned ; by aeration, boiling, charring the casks, throwing alum and 
charcoal into the water, what at first appeared a very unpromising water, may 
be used. If it cannot be used, or if the water fails, distillation can always be 
managed. If the water distils over acid, neutralise with carbonate of soda. 
If there is a little taste from organic matter, let it be exposed to the air for 
two or three days. 

During marches, each soldier carries a water-bottle. He should be taught 
to refill it with good water whenever practicable ; a little flannel bag, into 
which charcoal may be sewn, should be placed at the opening so as to strain 



46 



\VATER. 



the water. If the water is decidedly had, it should he hoiled with tea, and 
the cold tea drunk. The exhausted leaves, if well hoiled in water, will give up 
a little more tannin and colouring matter, and will have a good effect ; and if a 

soldier would do this after his evening meal, 
the water would he ready for the next day's 
march. Alum and charcoal should he used. 
Small charcoal or sandstone filters, with elastic 
tubes (fig. 4) at the top, which draw water 
through like siphons, or through which water 
can he sucked, are extremely useful, and are 
now much employed by officers. They have 
been largely used by the French soldiers in 
Algiers. The Austrian soldiers were formerly 
supplied with two boards pierced with holes, 
and with compressed sponges between them, 
and they poured their water through this. 
They also used sandstone and pumice-stones. 




Fig. 4. 



Soldiers should be taught that there is danger in drinking turbid water, 
as they will often do when they are overcome with thirst. Not only all 
sorts of suspended matters may be gulped down, but even animals. On some 
occasions, the French army in Algiers has suffered from the men swallowing 
small leeches, which brought on dangerous bleeding. The leeches, which 
are so small as to look merely like small bits of vegetable matter, fix in the 
pharynx, the posterior nares, &c., more rarely in the larynx, causing repeated 
haemoptysis, epistaxis or asphyxia. 





Fig. 6. 





Fig. 8. 

If water-carts or water sacs are used, they should be regularly inspected ; 
every cart should have a straining filter of sand, through which the water 
should pass. The carts and skins should be scrupulously clean. The water- 



i 



INSUFFICIENT SUPPLY. 

.ers, or bheesties, in India should be paraded every morning, and the 
sources of water inquired into. 

When halting ground is reached, it may be necessary to filter the water. 

common plan is to carry a cask, charred inside, and pierced with small 
oles at the bottom ; it is sunk in a small stream, and the water rises through 
the holes. A better plan still is to have two casks, one inside the other ; the 
outer pierced with holes at the bottom, and the inner near the top'; the space 
between is filled with sand, gravel, or charcoal, if procurable ; the water rises 
through the gravel between the barrels, and flows into the inner. In the 
French army it is ordered* that, if other means cannot be procured, fresh and 
inodorous straw be taken, and chopped fine and pressed at the bottom of a 
tub pierced with holes ; if possible, charcoal is to be intercalated among the 
straw. Great care must be taken to have the straw pure, and to change it 
often. Other simple plans are given in the drawings, which need little 
description. Figs. 5 and 6 speak for themselves. Fig. 7 is a barrel connected 
by a pipe with a supply above ; the water rises through sand and charcoal, 
and is drawn out above ; the barrel is fixed on a winch, and the supply 
pipe being removed, and the hole closed, a few turns of the handle clear the 
sand. Fig. 8 is a simpler contrivance, which may be made of wood or tin. 

In the field, the medical officer may be sent on to give a report of the 
quantity and quality of any source. Before the troops arrive he should 
make his arrangements for the different places of supply ; men and cattle 
should be watered at different points ; places should be assigned for washing ; 
and if removal of excreta by water be attempted, the excreta should flow in 
far below any possible spring ; in the case of a spring, several reservoirs of 
wood should be made, and the water allowed to flow from one to another 
the highest for men, the second for cattle. If it is a running stream, localities 
should be fixed for the special purpose ; that for the men's drinking-water 
should be highest up the stream, for animals below, washing lowest ; sentries 
should be placed as soon as possible. The Distribution of water should be 
regulated ; streams are soon stirred up, made turbid, and the water becomes 
undrinkable for want, perhaps, of simple management. 

Wherever practicable, the reservoirs or cisterns which are made should be 
covered in ; even if it is merely the most flimsy covering, it is better than 
nothing. 

In sieges, the same general rules must be attended to. The distribution of 
the water should be under the care of a vigilant medical officer. Advantage 
should be taken of every rainfall ; fresh wells should be dug early ; if neces- 
sary, distillation of brackish or sea water must be had recourse to. 



SECTION V. 

CONSEQUENCES OF AN INSUFFICIENT OR IMPURE SUPPLY 
OF WATER. 

SUB-SECTION I. INSUFFICIENT SUPPLY. 

The consequences either of a short supply of water for domestic purposes, 
or of difficulty in removing water which has been used, are very similar. On 
this point much valuable information was collected by the Health of Towns 

* Code des Officicrs de Santo. Par Didiot. P. 515. 



48 WATER. 

Commission in their invaluable reports. * It was then shown that want of 
water leads to impurities of all kinds ; the person and clothes are not washed, 
or are washed repeatedly in the same water ; cooking water is used scantily, 
or more than once ; habitations become dirty, streets are not cleaned, sewers 
become clogged ; and in these various ways a want of water produces unclean- 
liness of the very air itself. 

The result of such a state of things is a general lowered state of health 
among the population ; it has been thought also that some skin diseases 
scabies, and the epiphytic affections especially and ophthalmia in some cases, 
are thus propagated. It has also appeared to me that the remarkable cessation 
of spotted typhus among the civilised and cleanly nations is in part owing, 
not merely to better ventilation, but to more frequent and thorough washing 
of clothes. There is no doubt that the virus of this disease chiefly spreads 
by the cutaneous exhalation and cuticle, and is well known to adhere very 
strongly to clothes. 

The deficiency of water leading to insufficient cleansing of sewers has a 
great effect on the spread of typhoid, and of choleraic diarrhoea ; and cases 
have been known in which outbreaks of the latter disease have been arrested 
by a heavy fall of rain. 

Little is known with certainty of the effects produced on men by deficiency 
in the supply of water. Under ordinary circumstances, the sensation of 
thirst, the most delicate and imperative of all our feelings, never permits any 
great deficiency for a long time, and the water-removing organs eliminate with 
wonderful rapidity any excess that may be taken, so as to keep the amount in 
the body within certain limits. But when circumstances prevent the supply 
of water, it is well known that the wish to drink becomes so great, that men 
will run any danger, or undergo any pain, in order to satisfy it. The exact 
bodily condition thus produced is not precisely known, but from experiments 
on animals and men, it would appear that a lessened amount of water in the 
body diminishes t the elimination of the pulmonary carbonic acid, the intesti- 
nal excreta, and all the important urinary excreta. And it is probable, though 
not yet certain, that this arises from absolute lessening of tissue metamorphosis. 
The precise alterations in nutrition which ensue if the deficiency of water 
continues, have not yet been indicated, but it is well known that complete 
deprivation of water and food leads to a much more early death than absti- 
nence from food alone. 

The more obvious effects produced on men who are deprived for some time 
of water is, besides the feeling of the most painful thirst, a great lowering of 
muscular strength and mental vigour. After a time, exertion becomes almost 
impossible, and it is wonderful to see what an extraordinary change is pro- 
duced in an amazingly short time if water can be then procured. The supply 
of water becomes, then, a matter of the most urgent necessity when men are 
undergoing great muscular efforts, as it is absolutely impossible that these 
efforts can be continued without it. If we reflect on the immense loss of 
water by the skin and lungs .which attends any great physical exertion, we 
shall see that to make up for this loss is imperative ; and it is very important 
that this loss should be made up continually by small quantities of water 
being constantly taken, and not by a large amount at any one time. The 
restriction of water by trainers is based on a misapprehension : a little water, 
and often, should be the rule. (See EXERCISE.) 

* First and Second Reports (with evidence) of the Health of Towns Commission, 1844 and 
1845. 

j* The experiments of Falck and Scheffer on animals, and of Mosler on men and women, 
axe here referred to. 



EFFECTS OF IMPURE WATER. 49 

hi the case of soldiers the organisation for the supply of water should be 
better than it is. At present every man carries a water-bottle, holding about 
1| to 2 pints ; or in India, water-carriers (bheesties), with skins and water- 
carts, follow each regiment. In the French army also, water-carts are in 
waiting on each brigade. Such plans answer perfectly when there is no pres- 
sure ; but the time when water is most needed is during rapid and prolonged 
movements and in action, when water-carts are left behind, and when men 
too often empty their water-bottles, or throw them away, to lessen the weight 
they have to carry. It should be explained to the men that water will be 
more necessary for them than even food, and that the benefit of a supply of 
water will far more than compensate for the extra weight. The water-carts 
should be superseded for the time by water-skins borne by horses or mules, 
which can keep up with the men, and can, in action, pass from regiment to 
regiment, and fill up the men's bottles. "Whenever fresh ammunition is served 
out, a water-carrier should be in attendance, and fill up the bottles while the 
men receive their ammunition. 

Excess in the supply of drinking water will be likely to occur only when it 
is used as a mode of treatment (as in the water-cure), or when thirst is the 
result of some special unknown conditions of the nervous system, leading to 
diabetes insipidus. In both cases there is increased elimination and aug- 
mented tissue metamorphosis, and loss of flesh and strength, unless the appetite 
and the supply of food increase in a corresponding degree.* 



SUB-SECTION II IMPURE SUPPLY. 

At present, owing probably to the difficulty of making analyses of waters, 
the exact connection between impure water and disease does not stand on so 
precise an experimental basis as might be wished. There are some persons 
who have denied that even considerable organic or mineral impurity can be 
proved to produce any bad effect ; while others have believed that some 
mineral ingredients, such as the carbonate of lime, are useful. One writer, 
indeed, has proposed to add carbonate of lime to water in order to supply 
lime for bones ; and even so excellent a writer as Johnston has supposed that 
in Ireland the deficiency of lime salts in the potato is supplied by the large 
amount of lime in the water which, in so many parts of the country, is derived 
from the Mountain Limestone. But as Boussingault's experiments are not so 
satisfactory as they were formerly supposed to be, it is unlikely that this sug- 
gestion will obtain much hearing, and the idea that the exclusive use of the 
potato is rendered possible by the composition of the water does not seem 
likely to find much favour. 

It may be true that water containing a large quantity of organic matter, or 
much sulphate of lime or magnesia, has been used for long periods without 
any ill effects. The water of the Canal de 1'Ourcq, which contains much 
bicarbonate of lime, and some sulphate of lime and magnesia, was found by 
Parent-Duchatelet to produce no bad effect, and Boudet has lately asserted the 
same thing. 

In some of these cases, however, very little careful inquiry has been made 
into the state of health of those using the water, and that most fallacious of 
all evidence, a general impression, without a careful collection of facts, has 
often been the only ground on which the opinion has been come to. As well 



* The experiments of Bo'cker, Becher, Genth, Hosier, Lehmann, aud Chossat are especially 
referred to. 



50 WATER. 

observed by Mr Simon, in one of his philosophical Reports,* we cannot 
expect to find the effect of impure water always sudden and violent ; its 
results are indeed often gradual, and may elude ordinary observation, yet be 
not the less real and appreciable by a close inquiry. In fact, it is only when 
striking and violent effects are produced that public attention is arrested ; the 
minor and more insidious, but not less certain, evils are borne with the in- 
difference and apathy of custom. In some cases it is by no means improbable 
that the use of the impure water, which is supposed to be innocuous, has 
been really restricted, or that experience has shown the necessity of purifica- 
tion in some way. This. much seems to be certain, that as precise investiga- 
tions proceed, and, indeed, in proportion to the care of the inquiry and the 
accuracy of the chemical examination, a continually increasing class of cases is 
found to be connected with the use of impure water, and it seems only rea,son- 
able to infer that a still more rigid inquiry will further prove the frequency 
and importance of this mode of origin of some diseases. 

Animal organic matter, especially when of fecal origin ; vegetable organic 
matter, when derived from marshes ; and some salts, are the principal noxious 
ingredients, t 

Of the various mineral ingredients, the least hurtful substances appear to be 
carbonate of soda and chloride of sodium, when not present in too great 
quantity. Carbonate of lime, when not exceeding 12 to 16 grains per gallon, 
is not usually considered unwholesome, though it remains to be seen whether 
a more careful inquiry will not indicate some effect on digestion or assimila- 
tion to be produced by the constant use of such a water. 

The salts usually considered hurtful, except when in very small quantity, 
are sulphates of lime and magnesia, chlorides of calcium and magnesium, 
nitrates and nitrites, and butyrate of lime. 

The most practical way of treating this subject at present seems to be to 
enumerate the diseases which have, on good evidence, been attributed to im- 
pure water, and to select one or two examples of each case. But I have 
restricted myself entirely to drinking water, and leave on one side, as too 
uncertain for present discussion, the effect of impure water being used in the 
making of bread, the brewing of beer, or the preparation of other articles of 
food. 

1. AFFECTIONS OF THE ALIMENTARY MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 

It is reasonable to suppose that the impurities of water would be likely to 
produce their greatest effect upon the membrane with which they come first 
in contact. This is in fact found to be the case. 

Symptoms which may be referred to the convenient term dyspepsia, and 
which consist in some loss of appetite, vague uneasiness or actual pain at 
the epigastrium, and slight nausea and constipation, with occasional diarrhoea, 
are caused by water containing any quantity of sulphate of lime, chloride of 
calcium, and the magnesian salts. Dr Sutherland found the hard water of 
the red sandstone rocks, which was formerly much used in Liverpool, to 
have had a decided effect in producing constipation, lessening the secretions, 
and causing visceral obstructions ; and in Glasgow, the substitution of soft 
for hard water lessened, according to Dr Leech, the prevalence of dyspeptic 
complaints. It is a well-known fact that grooms object to giving hard water 

* Second Annual Report to the City of London, p. 121. 

t The quantities of those substances which should not be exceeded in good drinking water 
have been already given, as far as they can be stated at present. 



EFFECTS OF IMPURE WATER. 51 

to their horses, on the ground that it makes the coat staring and rough a 
result which has been attributed to some derangement of digestion. The 
exact amount which will produce these symptoms has not been deter- 
mined, but water containing more than 8 grains of each substance individu- 
ally or collectively appears to be injurious to many persons. This would 
correspond to about 10 degrees of permanent hardness. A much less degree 
than this will affect some persons. In a well water at Chatham, which was 
found to disagree with so many persons that no one would use the water, the 
main ingredients were 19 grains of carbonate of lime, 11 grains of sulphate of 
lime, and 1 3 grains of chloride of sodium per gallon. The total solids were 
50 grains per gallon. In another case of the same kind, the total solids were 
58 grains per gallon ; the carbonate of lime was 22 ; the sulphate of lime 11, 
and the chloride of sodium 14 grains per gallon. 

Organic matter produces no symptoms of this kind. 

Iron, in quantities sufficient to give a slight chalybeate taste, often produces 
slight dyspepsia, headache, and general malaise. Custom seems to partly 
remove these effects. 

Diarrhcea has been known to be produced by many conditions. 

(a.) Suspended Mineral Substances. Clay, marl as in the cases of the 
water of the Mississippi, the Missouri, Rio Grande, Kansas,* of the Ganges, 
and many other rivers, which at certain times of the year produce diarrhoea, 
especially in persons unaccustomed to the water. Hammond states that the 
diarrhoea sometimes ends in ulceration. 

(b.) Suspended Animal, and especially Faical Matters, have produced 
diarrhoea in many cases ; such water always contains dissolved organic mat- 
ters, to which the effect may be partly owing. The case of Croydon in 1854 
(Carpenter) is one of the most striking on record. In cases in which the 
water is largely contaminated with sewage, it is important to observe that the 
symptoms are often markedly choleraic (purging, vomiting, cramps, and even 
some loss of heat). This point has been lately again noticed by Olde- 
kop of Astrachan,t who found strong choleraic symptoms to be produced by 
the water of the Volga, which is impregnated with sewage. 

Suspended animal and vegetable substances, washed off the ground by 
heavy rain into shallow wells, often produce diarrhoea, as at Prague in 1860, 
when an endemic of " catarrh of the alimentary canal" was produced by heavy 
floods washing impurities into the wells.:}: 

(c.) Stispended Vegetable Substances. In this country, and also in the late 
American civil war, several instances have occurred of diarrhoaa arising from 
the use of surface and ditch water, which ceased when wells were sunk ; pos- 
sibly there might be also animal contamination. It is not, therefore, quite 
certain that suspended vegetable matter was the vera causa. Assistant- 
Surgeon Gore has recorded a violent outbreak of diarrhoea at Bulama, on the 
west coast of Africa, produced by the water of a well ; the water was itself 
pure, but was milky from suspended matters, consisting of debris of plants, 
chlorophyll, minute cellular and branched algae, monads, polygastrica, and 
minute particles of sand and clay. When filtered the water was quite 
harmless. 

(d.) Dissolved Animal Organic Matter. The opinion is very widely diffused 
that dissolved and putrescent animal organic matter to the amount of 3 to 10 
grains per gallon may produce diarrhoea. This is no doubt correct, but two 

* Hammond's Hygiene, p. 218. t Virchow's Arehiv, band xxvi. p. 117. 

t Canstatt's Jahresb. 1862, vol. ii. p. 31. 

Report on Hygiene by the Author, " Army Medical Report," vol. v. p. 428. 



52 WATER 

points must be conceded 1st, That there are usually other impurities which 
aid the action of the organic matter ; and 2d, That organic matter, even to 
the amount of 10 to 15 grains per gallon, may exist without had effects. In 
the latter case the water is, however, always clear and sparkling, never tainted 
or discoloured, and it may be perhaps inferred that such organic matter is not 
undergoing those rapid fermentative or putrefactive changes which appear to 
be so pernicious. The frequent presence of other impurities renders it difficult 
to assign its exact influence to dissolved organic matters ; for example in the 
shallow well waters of London, many of which are very unwholesome (Letheby), 
there are other impurities besides organic matter. 

In the case of a well-ventilated court in Coventry,* where diarrhoea was 
constantly present, the water contained 5 -68 grains per gallon of volatile and 
combustible matter, but then it contained also no less than 105 grains of 
fixed salts, which, as the water had a permanent hardness of 51'6 (Clark's 
scale) after boiling, must have consisted of sulphates and chlorides of calcium 
and magnesium. It also contained alkaline salts, nitrates, and ammonia. The 
composition was therefore so complex, that it is difficult to assign to the 
organic matter its share in the effects. 

The animal organic matter derived from grave-yards appears to be especially 
hurtful; here also nitrites of ammonia and lime may be present. 

(e.) Dissolved Vegetable Matter. There is no evidence at present to show 
that this produces diarrhoea. 

(/.) Foetid Gases. Water containing much sulphuretted hydrogen will 
give rise to diarrhoea, especially if organic matter be also present. In the late 
Mexican War (1861-62), the French troops suffered at Orizaba from a pecu- 
liar dyspepsia and diarrhoea, attended with immense disengagement of gas 
and enormous eructations after meals. The eructed gas had a strong smell 
of sulphuretted hydrogen, t This was traced to the use of water from sul- 
phurous and alkaline springs; even the best waters of Orizaba contained 
organic matter and ammonia in some quantity. The experiments of Professor 
Weber (see page 94) have shown what marked effects are produced by the 
injection of sulphuretted hydrogen in solution in water into the blood ; is it 
possible that water containing animal organic matter may occasionally form 
SH after absorption into the blood, and that the poisonous effect of some 
water may be owing to this ? The symptoms of poisoning by water contami- 
nated by sewage are sometimes very like those noted by Weber in his experi- 
ments, viz., diarrhoea and even choleraic symptoms (lowering of temperature) 
and irritation of the lungs, spine, liver and kidneys. 

The absorption of sewer gases, as when the overflow-pipe of a cistern opens 
into the sewers, will cause diarrhoea. This seems perfectly proved by the case 
recorded by Dr Greenhow, in Mr Simon's second report.^ All the conditions 
of an exact experiment seem to have been here fulfilled. In the gaol at Sal- 
ford, two bodies of men, viz., the prisoners, 466 in number, and the officers 
and members of their families, 53 in number, were distributed throughout 
the gaol, and were under the same conditions of weather, lodging, &c. Yet, 
of the former, 266, or 57 per cent., were attacked with sudden diarrhoea, of a 
choleraic type, while, of the latter body, not one was attacked, although, had 
the proportion been the same, 30 should have been taken ill. As the attack 
was remarkably sudden and evanescent, it was a case of poisoning of some 



* Greenhow, in Second Report of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council, 1860, p. 75. 
f Poncet, in Rec. de Mem. de Med. Mil. 1863, p. 218. The exact words are "une odeur 
d'acid sulfurique," but " sulf hydrique" must be meant. 
J Second Report of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council, Par!. Paper, 1860, p. 153. 



EFFECTS OF IMPUKE WATER. 53 

dnd. The cause was not in the air, for both classes were on a par in that 
respect ; the food of the prisoners was examined, and was found to be good ; 
the only other probable channel of the poisonous agent was the drinking 
water. It was discovered that, while the water was derived from the same 
source, the officers used the water of one cistern, and the prisoners' food was 
cooked with the water of another covered cistern, the untrapped overflow- 
pipe of which communicated with a common sewer. On the day of the out- 
break, this water was noticed to be less light, to have a yellow colour, and a 
somewhat unpleasant taste. Although the water was not further examined, 
there can be no doubt it was the cause of the attack, which ceased almost as 
rapidly as it commenced, on the cistern being emptied, and the pipe trapped."" 
There seems no point of evidence wanting here, either positive or negative, to 
fix the cause in the water, and that the impurity of the water was from the 
sewer gases, is really as certain. 

(</.) Dissolved Mineral Matters, if passing a certain point, produce diarrhoea. 
Boudin refers to an outbreak of diarrhoea at Oran, in Algiers, which was dis- 
tinctly traced to bad water, and ceased on the cause being removed ; the com- 
position of the water is not explicitly given, but it contained lime, magnesia, 
and carbonate of soda. Sulphates of lime and magnesia also cause diarrhoea, 
following sometimes constipation. The selenitic well waters of Paris used 
to have this effect on strangers. Parent-Duchatelett noticed the constant 
excess of patients furnished by the prison of St Lazare, in consequence of 
diarrhoea, and he traced this to the water, which " contained a very large pro- 
portion of sulphate of lime and other purgative salts;" and he tells us that 
Pinel had noticed the same fact twenty years before in a particular section of 
the Salpetriere. In some of the West Indian stations, the water drawn from 
the calcareous (so-called Parian) formation has been long abandoned, in con- 
sequence of the tendency to diarrhoea which it caused. 

Mtrate of lime waters also produces diarrhoea. A case is on record, in 
which a well water was obliged to be disused, in consequence of its impregna- 
tion with butyrate of lime (105 grains per gallon), which was derived from a 
trench filled with decomposing animal and vegetable matters. Both men and 
beasts were affected with diarrhoea from its use. 

Brackish water (whether rendered so by the sea, or derived from loose 
sands) produces diarrhoea in a large percentage of persons, and at some of the 
Cape frontier stations water of this character formerly caused much disease of 
this kind. In a water I examined, which became brackish from sea water, 
and which produced diarrhoea in almost all persons, I found the amount of 
chloride of sodium to be 253 grains per gallon. But, doubtless, a much less 
quantity than this, especially if chloride of magnesium be present, will act in 
this way. 

(h.) Metallic Impregnation. Occasionally animal organic matter acts in an 
indirect way, by producing nitrites and nitrates, which act on metals. 

Dr Baedeker, a physician in Witten, was called to some cases of sickness 

* The period of the incubation, so to speak, of the attack of diarrhoea is well shown in this 
case. Granting that the cause was only acting on the day of the outbreak, the folloAving num- 
bers come out : Out of 100 sick 

73 '68 per cent, fell sick within 24 hours. 
21-02 in the second 24 hours. 

2-63 third 

1-87 fourth 

0-75 fifth 

The rapidity with which this cause of disease always seems to act is very remarkable, 
t Hygiene Publique, t. i. p. 236. + Zeitschrift fur Hygiene, vol. i. p. 166. 

Pappenheim's Beitrage, heft iv. p. 49. 



54 WATEli. 

produced, apparently, by water. On examining the point, he found the 
water was drawn from a pump with a copper cylinder, and it was after it had 
stood for some tiine in the pump that it was hurtful. Greens boiled in this 
water acquired a beautiful green colour. 

The water was found to contain a considerable quantity of copper, which 
seemed to be in combination with some organic matter, and the solution was 
aided by the large amount of nitrates which are produced by passage of 
excreta into the water, and subsequent oxidation. 

Lead (as might have been anticipated) was also largely present in this water, 
when leaden pumps were used ; iron, on the contrary, was not dissolved. 

Dysentery. Dysentery also is decidedly produced by impure water, and 
this cause ranks high in the etiology of dysentery, though perhaps it is not 
the first. 

Several of the older army-surgeons refer to this cause. Pringle does so 
several times, and Donald Monro, in the Campaigns in Flanders and Germany. 
In the West Indies, Lempriere,* in 1799, noticed the increase of bowel com- 
plaints in Jamaica in May, when, after floods, the water was bad and turbid, 
"and loaded with dirt and filth." He also mentions, that at Kingston and 
Port Royal the dysentery was owing to brackish water. It was not, how- 
ever, for many years after this that fresh sources of water were sought for in 
the West Indies, and that rain water began to be used when good spring or 
river water could not be got. 

Davis t mentions as a curious fact, in reference to the West Indies, that 
ships' crews, when ordered to Tortola, were " invariably seized with fluxes," 
which were caused by the water. But the inhabitants who used tank (i.e. 
rain) water were free ; and so well known was this, that when any resident at 
Tortola was invited to dinner on board a man-of-war, it was no unusual thing 
for him to carry his drinking water with him. 

The dysentery at Walcheren, in 1809, was in no small degree owing to the 
bad water, which was almost everywhere brackish. 

The epidemic at Guadaloupe, in 1847, recorded by Cornuel, seems also quite 
conclusive as to the effect of impure water in causing, not merely isolated 
cases, but a wide-spread outbreak. 

In 1860, at Prague, there were many cases of dysentery, clearly traced to 
the use of water of wells and springs rendered foul by substances washed into 
the water by heavy floods. Exact analyses were not made. 

On the West Coast of Africa (Cape Coast Castle), an attack of dysentery 
was traced by Assistant-Surgeon Oakes to the passage of sewage from a cess- 
pool into one of the tanks. " This was remedied, and the result was the 
almost total disappearance of the disease." 

That in the East Indies a great deal of dysentery has been produced by 
impure water, is a matter too familiar almost to be mentioned (Annesley ; 
Twining). Its constant prevalence at Secunderabad, in the Deccan, appears 
to have been partly owing to the water which percolated through a large grave- 
yard. One of the sources of water contained 119 grains of solids per gallon, 
and in some instances there were 8, 11, and even 30 grains per gallon of 
organic matter. (Indian Report, p. 44.) 

The great effect produced by the impure water of Calcutta in this way has 
been lately pointed out by Chevers. (Indian Annals, No. 17, p. 70, 1864.) 

In time of war this cause has often been present, and the great loss by 

* Vol. i. p. 25. t On the Walcheren Fever, p. 10. 

J Hee a review by the author on Dysentery, in the " British and Foreign Medical and Chir- 
urgioal Review " for 1847, for fuller details of this epidemic. 



EFFECTS OF IMPUKE WATE1J. 

dysentery in the Peninsula, at Ciudad Kodrigo, was partly attributed by Sir 
J. M'Grigor to the use of water passing through a cemetery where nearly 
20,000 bodies had been hastily interred. 

The impurities which thus produce dysentery appear to be of the same kind 
as those which cause the allied condition, diarrhoea. Suspended earthy 
matters, suspended animal organic matter, sulphates and chloride of lime and 
magnesium, nitrates of lime and ammonia, large quantities of chloride of 
sodium and magnesium in solution, appear to be the usual ingredients ; but 
there are few perfect analyses yet known. 

The observations which prove so satisfactorily that the dysenteric stools can 
propagate the disease, make it probable that, as in the case of typhoid fever 
and cholera, the accidental passage of dysenteric evacuations into drinking 
water may have some share in spreading the disease. 

2. AFFECTION OF OTHER MUCOUS MEMBRANES BESIDES THE ALIMENTARY. 

Little has yet been done to trace out this point. At Prague, after the 
severe flood of 1860, bronchial catarrh was frequent, probably caused chiefly 
by the chills arising from the great evaporation ; but it was noticed that 
bronchial catarrh was most common when the drinking water was foulest and 
produced dysentery. Possibly the bronchial and the urinary mucous mem- 
branes may also suffer from foul water ; the point is well worthy of close 
investigation. 

3. SPECIFIC DISEASES. 

That some of the specific diseases are disseminated by drinking water is a 
fact which has only attracted its due share of attention of late years. It is 
certainly one of the most important steps in Etiology which has been made in 
this century. 

Malarious Fevers. Hippocrates states that the spleens of those who drink 
the water of marshes become enlarged and hard ; and Ehazes not only asserted 
this, but affirmed that it generated fevers. Little attention seems to have 
been paid to this remark, and in modern times the opinions of Lancisi, that 
the air of marshes is the sole cause of intermittents, has been so generally 
adopted, that the possibility of the introduction of the cause by means of 
water, as well as air, was overlooked. Still it has been a very general belief 
among the inhabitants of marshy countries, that the water could produce 
fever. Henry Marshall* says that the Singhalese attribute fevers to impure 
water, " especially if elephants or buffaloes have been washing in it," and it 
is to be presumed that he referred to periodical fevers. On making some 
inquiries of the inhabitants of the highly malarious plains of Troy, during the 
Crimean war, I found the villagers universally stated, that those who drank 
marsh water had fever at all times of the year, while those who drank pure 
water, only got ague during the late summer and autumnal months. The same 
belief is prevalent in the south of India, and in Western Candeish, Canara, Bala- 
ghut and Mysore, and in the deadly Wynaad district, it is stated by Mr 
Bettington of the Madras Civil Service, that it "is notorious that the water 
produces fever and affections of the spleen." The Essay by this gentleman t 
gives, indeed, some extremely strong evidence on this point. He refers to vil- 
lages placed under the same conditions as to marsh air, but in some of which 



Topography of Ceylon, p. 52. | Indian Annals, 1856, p. 526. 



56 WATEK. 

fevers are prevalent, in others not ; the only difference is, that the latter are 
supplied with pure water, the former with marsh or nullah water full of vege- 
table debris. In one village there are two sources of supply, a tank fed by 
surface and marsh water and a spring ; those only who drink the tank water 
get fever. In a village (Tulliwaree) no one used to escape the fever ; Mr Bet- 
tington dug a well, the fever disappeared, and, in the last fourteen years, has 
not returned. 

Another village (Tambatz) was also " notoriously unhealthy," a well was 
dug, and the inhabitants became healthy. Nothing can well be stronger than 
the positive and negative evidence brought forward in this paper ; and Mr 
Bettington seems quite justified in asserting, that as the malaria, however 
deadly, is only in action for a short period, the health of the people is far 
more affected by the water they drink than by the air they breathe. 

In the " Landes" (of south-west France), the water from the extensive 
sandy plain contains much vegetable matter, which it obtains from the vege- 
table deposit, which binds together the siliceous particles of the subsoil. It 
has a marshy smell, and, according to Faure, produces intermittents and vis- 
ceral engorgements. 

The same facts have been noticed in this country. Twenty years ago Mr 
Blower of Bedford mentioned a case in which the ague of a village had been 
much lessened by digging wells, and he refers to an instance in which, in the 
parish of Houghton, almost the only family which escaped ague at one time 
was that of a farmer who used well water, while all the other persons drank 
ditch water.* 

At Sheerness the use of the ditch water, which is highly impure with 
vegetable debris, has been also considered to be one of the chief causes of the 
extraordinary insalubrity, t 

At Versailles a sudden attack of ague in a regiment of cavalry was traced 
to the use of surface water taken from a marshy district. J 

The case of the Argo, recorded by Boudin, is an extremely strong one. In 
1834, 800 soldiers in good health embarked in three vessels to pass from 
Bona in Algiers to Marseilles. They all arrived at Marseilles the same day. 
In two vessels there were 680 men without a single sick man. In the third 
vessel, the Argo, there had been 120 men; thirteen died during the short 
passage (time not given), and of the 107 survivors no less than 98 were dis- 
embarked with all forms of paludal fevers, and as Boudin himself saw the 
men, there was no doubt of the diagnosis. The crew of the Argo had not a 
single sick man. 

All the soldiers had been exposed to the same influences of atmosphere 
before embarkation. The crew and the soldiers of the Argo were exposed to 
the same atmospheric condition during the voyage ; the influence of air seems 
therefore excluded. There is no notice of the food, but the production of 
malarious fever from food has never been suggested. The water was, how- 
ever, different in the two healthy ships the water was good. The soldiers 
on board the Argo had been supplied with water from a marsh, which had a 
disagreeable taste and odour; the crew of the Argo had pure water. The 
evidence seems here as nearly complete as could be wished. 

* Snow "On the Mode of Communication of Cholera." 2d edit. 1855, p. 130. 

f Is it not possible that the great decline of agues in England is partly due to a purer drink- 
ing water being now used ? Formerly, there can be little doubt, when there was no organised 
supply, and much fewer wells existed, the people must have taken their supply from surface 
collections and ditches, as they do now, or did till lately, at Sheerness. 



J Grainger' s Report on Cholera. Appendix (B), page 95 ; foot-note. 
Traite de Geographic et de Statistique Medicales, 



. 
, 1857, t. i. p. 142. 



EFFECTS OF IMPURE WATER. 57 

One very important circumstance is the rapidity of development of the 
malarious disease and its fatality when introduced in water. It is the same 
thing as in the case of diarrhoea and dysentery. Either the fever-making 
cause must be in larger quantity in the water, or, what is more probable, 
must be more readily taken up into the circulation and carried to the spleen, 
than when the cause enters by the lungs. 

In opposition, however, to all these statements must be placed a remark of 
Finke's,* that in Hungary and Holland marsh water is daily taken without 
injury. But in Hungary, Dr Grosz states that, to avoid the injurious effects 
of the marsh water, it is customary to mix brandy with it, "a custom which 
favours hypertrophies of the inner organs, "t 

Typhoid Fever. The belief that typhoid fever can spread by means of 
water as well as air appears to be quite of modern origin, though some epide- 
mics, such as the " Schleim-fieber" of Gottingen in 1760, were attributed in 
part to the use of impure water. In 1822, Walz affirmed that an outbreak 
of " typhus" (typhoid) at Saarlouis, in Rhenish Prussia, was caused by impure 
water; and in 1843, Miiller discovered that 129 cases of typhus abdominalis 
(typhoid), and 21 'deaths which occurred in the garrison at Mayence, were 
produced by fsecal matter passing into the drinking water, which had a dis- 
agreeable putrid smell. In 1848, E. A. W. Bichter published an account of 
an outbreak of the same kind which occurred in a school at Vienna, from the 
contents of a sewer passing into the drinking water.;}: In 1852, Dr Austin 
Flint published the particulars of a single outbreak of typhoid fever at the 
hamlet of North Boston (Erie, U.S.) in 1843. In this case the disease was 
clearly introduced into a perfectly healthy village by a stranger who arrived 
ill at an inn, and there died on the 19th October. A very large proportion 
(28 out of 43 persons, forming 10 families) of the inhabitants became very 
rapidly affected with typhoid fever, and all those attacked used the water of 
the inn well. Three families only out of the ten in the village entirely 
escaped. Two lived at a distance, and had their water from other sources ; 
and the other, who lived close to the inn, was at feud with the innkeeper, and 
had his own well. So strongly did the belief that the well water of the inn 
caused the disease, take root in the little community, that the man who, 
living close to the inn, yet escaped, was accused of poisoning the inn water, 
and an action for slander was obliged to be brought by him. On subsequent 
analysis the water was found to be quite pure, but this appears to have been 
some time after the severity of the outbreak. The dates of attack of 15 
cases are known: 6 occurred between the 14th and 20th of October; 6 
between the 20th and 30th ; and 3 between the 1st and 8th of November. 
The rapidity with which the disease spread, and its extent (65 per cent, of 
the population being affected) are not like the ordinary rather slow propagation 
of typhoid through the air. Certainly, although the evidence is not perfect, 
it seems extremely probable that the well water of the inn was the main 
medium of the dissemination. 

In 1852-53, a severe outbreak of typhoid fever took place at Croydon, and 
was thoroughly investigated by many competent observers ; and it was shown 
by Mr Carpenter of Croydon, that it was partly, at any rate, spread by the 
pollution of the drinking water from the contents of cesspools. 



* Oesterlen's Handb. der Hygiene. 2d edit. 1857, p. 129 ; foot-note. 
f Quoted by Wutzer, Reise in den Orient. Europas, band. i. p. 101. 

: All these cases are related by Riecke in his excellent work "Der Kriegs- und Friedens- 
Typhus." Nordhausen, 1850, pp. 44-58. 

Clinical Reports on Continued Fever. By Austin Flint, M.D. Buffalo, 1852, p. 380. 



58 WATER. 

In 1856, Dr Routh* published a case in which the evacuations of a typhoid 
patient were thrown into a closet, the pipe of which passed directly into the 
cistern of the drinking water, in a well- ventilated house at Hastings. A r o less 
than eight persons were aifected with more or less typhoidal symptoms; 
many of these had not been brought into any personal contact with the sick 
person. 

In 1859, Dr W. Buddt published two very conclusive cases, in which well 
water was contaminated by sewage. 

There is no satisfactory evidence that typhoid stools had been in the sewage 
matter, but their presence is not excluded. I learn, from personal communi- 
cation with Dr Budd, that he has long been convinced of the occasional 
propagation of typhoid fever in this way. 

In 1860, an outbreak of typhoid fever occurred at the Convent of Sisters of 
Charity at Munich. 31 persons out of 120 were attacked between the 15th 
September and the 4th of October, with severe illness, and 14 of these 
cases were true typhoid ; 4 died. The cause was traced to wells impregnated 
with much organic matter (and among other things typhoid dejections), and 
containing nitrates and lime. On the cessation of the use of this water, the 
fever ceased. J 

The propagation of typhoid fever in Bedford, would certainly appear from 
Mr Simon's report, to have been partly through the medium of the water. 

Dr Schmit|| has for several years paid particular attention to this point, and 
in 1861 published the following cases : 

In Colmar in Berg, an attack of adynamic ataxic febrile disease, diagnosed 
as typhoid, occurred in 105 persons, and 12 died. 

The course was that of abdominal typhus. 

The disease commenced in a house where the sewage matter flowed on to a 
dung-heap, and then into the well ; the water smelt badly, and sewage was seen 
in it. It was certain that the disease commenced in and spread from that 
house ; all attacked belonged to, or had nursed, or in some way attended in 
the house. 

In 1844, a family of 6 persons, at Ettelbruch, all fell ill nearly at the same 
time with typhoid. A month before, the next-door neighbour had made his 
cesspool deeper, and since then, faeces had passed from the cesspool into the 
well of the next house, and corrupted the water. 

In 1855, the sister and the maid of a minister were simultaneously attacked 
with typhoid. The water of the well had a bad taste and smell, and Schmit found 
that the dirty water of the kitchen passed into the well. The minister who 
had drunk very little water, but took wine, escaped. 

In March 1855, in Bomtscheid, 5 persons fell ill of typhoid ; the well had 
become contaminated with sewage. 

In May 1856, nearly all the inmates, 10 in number, in the house of Herr G. 
at Burdeu, fell ill of very severe typhoid. Here the water had become con- 
taminated with all sorts of substances thrown from the kitchen into the swine's 
trough, and which were decomposing in many cases. 

In a house in Ettelbruch, in 1855, 1856, and 1859, cases of typhoid fever 
occurred. Here sewage had found its way into the well. 



* Faecal Fermentation as a Cause of Disease. Pamphlet. Lond. 1856, p. 34. 

f Lancet, Oct. 29, 1859, p. 432. 

J Edinburgh Medical Journal, Jan. 1862, p. 1153. See also Gietl, Die Ursachen des 
Enter. Typhus in Miinchen, 1865, p. 58. 

Third Report of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council, 1860. 

|| Journ. de Med. de Bruxelles, Sept. 1861 ; and Canstatt's Jahresb. for 1861, band iv. pp. 
182, 183. 



EFFECTS OF IMPURE WATER. 59 

long a body of workmen in Ettelbruch, typhoid prevailed in 1854 and 
1856. Here also the sewage matter had passed into the drinking water, and 
when this was remedied, the typhoid fever disappeared. 

In 1857, almost simultaneously, the entire household of H. G. fell ill of 
typhoid. H. G. was the only person who escaped ; and he drank wine, and 
no water. Sewage matter had penetrated into the drinking water. 

In several of these cases the disease was confined to a single house, and the 
greater number of persons in the house were affected. Nothing is said about 
the incubative period. 

A case bearing on the same point was brought before the Metropolitan 
Officers of Health in 1862,* by Mr Wilkinson of Sydenham. In this case the 
water was contaminated by absorption of sewer gases. 

In 1862, a very sudden and severe outbreak of typhoid in a barrack at 
Munich was traced to water impregnated with fsecal matter ; on ceasing to use 
the water, the disease disappeared.t In 1865 a very remarkable outbreak of 
typhoid occurred at Eatho, in Scotland, and was traced to drinking water 
contaminated with sewage. J 

That water may be the medium of propagating typhoid, thus seems to be 
proved by sufficient evidence ; and it has been admitted by men who have 
paid special attention to this subject, as Jenner, W. Budd, and Simon. It 
does not seem unlikely, indeed, that this mode of spreading will be found to 
be far more common than is supposed. 

Two questions arise in connection with this subject 

1. As typhoid fever undoubtedly spreads also through the air, What is the 
proportion of cases disseminated by water, as compared with those dissemi- 
nated by air ? No answer can yet be given to this question. Dr W. Budd is 
inclined to think that the cases of water propagation are numerically small. 

There is one point of some interest. When the dates of attacks are given, 
it is curious to observe how short the incubative period appears to be ; 
while it is probable that it takes many days (8 to 14) after the typhoid 
poison has entered with the air before the early malaise comes on, in some of 
the cases of typhoid brought on by water, two or three days only elapse 
before the symptoms are marked. In the one case, it may be readily sup- 
posed that the poisoning substance, entering with the air into the mouth, 
and being then swallowed, is in much smaller quantity than when taken in 
the drinking water, and its effect on the intestinal membrane is slow in pro- 
portion. 

A very large proportion also of the susceptible persons who drink the water 
is affected. 

2. Will decomposing sewage in water produce typhoid fever, or must the 
evacuations of a typhoid patient pass in ? This is part of the larger question 

* British Medical Journal, March 1, 1862. 

t Gietl, Die Ursachen des Ent. Typhus in Miinchen, 1865, p. 62. In this little book is much 
evidence to show the propagation of typhoid by foul water and by deficient arrangements for 
removal of excreta, as well as many instances of the carrying of the disease from place to place, 
analogous to those narrated by Bretonneau many years ago. 

J Edin. Med. Journ. Dec. 1865. In this case, a groom came to the house ill with typhoid 
from Dundee, and thus introduced the disease. 

Dr W. Budd says, in a letter to me " In the cases in which the poison is conveyed by 
water, infection seems to be much more certain ; and I have reason to think that the period of 
incubation is materially shortened. An illustration of this seems to be furnished by the me- 
morable outbreak which occurred at Cowbridge some years ago, and which presented this unex- 
ampled fact : that out of some 90 or 100 persons who went to a race ball at the principal inn 
there, more than one-third were within a short time laid up with the fever. In this case, there was 
satisfactory reason to think that the water was contaminated, though there was no chemical 
examination." 



60 WATER. 

of the origin and propagation of specific poisons. It is certainly remarkable, 
in the range of cases recorded by Schmit, how uniformly the possibility of the 
passage of typhoid stools is disregarded. Everything is attributed to faecal 
matters merely. But this may have been an oversight. The opinion that the 
stools of typhoid are the especial carriers of the poison was first, I believe, ex- 
plicitly stated by Canstatt,* and has been also ably argued by W. Budd. 
Whether or not the special putrefactive change going on in these evacuations, 
can be communicated to other organic matter out of the body, is not certain ; 
but it is probable that in the body it must meet with a fit nidus, such as the 
Peyerian glands of a young person, before it can act. 

Cholera. None of the earlier investigators of cholera appear to have 
imagined that the specific poison ever found entrance by the means of drink- 
ing water. The only intimation of the kind I have ever seen is in a remark 
by Dr Muller.t 

In 1849, the late Dr Snow, in investigating some circumscribed outbreaks 
of cholera in Horsleydown, Wandsworth, and other places, came to the con- 
clusion that, in these instances, the disease arose from cholera evacuations 
finding their way into the drinking water. Judging from the light of subse- 
quent experience, it now seems extremely probable that this was the case, and 
to Dr Snow must certainly be attributed the very great merit of discovering 
this most important fact. At first, certainly the evidence was defective,^; but 
gradually fresh instances were collected, and in 1854 occurred the celebrated 
instance of the Broad Street pump in London, which was investigated by a 
committee, whose report, drawn up by Mr John Marshall, of University 
College, with great logical power, contains the most convincing evidence that, 
in that instance, at any rate, the poison of cholera found its way into the body 
through the drinking water. 

In 1855, Dr Snow published a second edition of his book, giving an account 
of all the cases hitherto known, and adding some evidence also as to the in- 
troduction in this way of other specific poisons. || 

The facts, at present, may be briefly summed up as follows : 

1. Local outbreaks, in which contamination of the drinking water was 
proved, or was very probable, such as those at Horsleydown, Broad Street, 
Wandsworth, West Ham, &c., in England. In India, Mouat records a case 
of a very severe outbreak among soldiers who drank the water of a tidal stream. 
(Indian Report , p. 47.) 

2. More general attacks, in which districts supplied with impure water by 
a water company have suffered greatly, while other districts in the same locality, 

* " Wahrsclieinlich sind die Exhalationen des Krankes, seine Excremente, vielleicht die 
typhosen aftergebilde im Darme, die Trager des Contagiums." Canstatt, Spec. Path, und Ther. 
2d edit, band ii. p. 572 (1847). 

f Einige Bemerkungen iiber die Asiat. Cholera. Hannover, 1848, p. 36. 

\ There seemed at once an a priori argument adverse to this view, as, at that time, all evi- 
dence was against the idea of cholera evacuations being capable of causing the disease. They 
had been tasted and drank (in 1832) by men, and been given to animals, without effect. 
Persons inoculated themselves in dissections constantly, and bathed their hands in the fluids of 
the intestines ; in India the pariahs who remove excreta, and everywhere the washerwomen 
who washed the clothes of the sick, did not especially suffer. And to these arguments must be 
added the undoubted fact, that there were serious deficiencies of evidence in Dr Snow's early 
cases. (See review by the author in the "British and Foreign Medical Chirurgical Review," April 
1855.) 

Report on the Cholera Outbreak in St James', Westminster, in 1854. London, Churchill, 
1855. Every point is discussed in this report with a candour and precision which leaves nothing 
to be desired. For further evidence on this outbreak, see Indian Sanitary Report : evidence 
of Dr Dundas Thomson, p. 272. 

II On the Mode of Communication of Cholera. By John Snow, M.D. London, Churchill. 
2d edition, 1855. 



EFFECTS OF IMPURE WATER. 

and presenting, otherwise, the same conditions, were supplied with pure water 
and suffered very little. Thus the Eegistrar-General has shown that the dis- 
tricts supplied in 1853 by the Lambeth Company with a pure water, and part 
by the Southwark Company with an impure water, suffered much less than 
the districts supplied by the latter company alone (the proportion was 61 and 
94 cases respectively to 100,000 of population) ;.and Dr Snow has shown, by 
a most elaborate inquiry, that in the districts partly supplied with pure water 
by the Lambeth Company, and partly with impure water by the Southwark, 
the attacks of cholera were chiefly in the houses supplied by the latter 
water. 

Thus, in four weeks, in 1853, in this district, there were 334 deaths. Of 
these, no less than 286 deaths occurred in 40,046 houses supplied with the 
impure water of the Southwark Company, or 71 to 10,000 houses, and only 
14 deaths in 26,107 houses by the Lambeth Company, or 5 to 10,000 houses ; 
in the other cases, the water was drawn from other sources. 

This is as complete as any inquiry of the kind can be made, for we must 
assume that all the other conditions of the houses were equal. Granting 
this, it shows either that the water contained the poison, or predisposed the 
system to bo more easily acted upon by it. 

3. Instances in which towns which could not have had water contaminated 
with sewage have escaped, and instances in which towns which have suffered 
severely in one epidemic have escaped a later one, the only difference being 
that, in the interval, the supply of water was improved. Exeter, Hull, and 
ISTewcastle-on-Tyne, Glasgow, Moscow, are instances of this. Two very good 
cases are related by Dr Acland.* The parish of St Clement was supplied 
in 1832 with filthy water from a sewer-receiving stream. In 1849 and 1854 
the water was from a purer source. In the first year, the cholera mor- 
tality was great ; in the last years, insignificant. Two gaols were near each 
other ; the one suffered, the other not ; the water was impure in one case, 
from drainage, pure in the other. The gaol with bad water having got a fresh 
supply, the cholera did not appear in the next epidemic. 

In looking back, with this new reading of facts, it would seem that some 
older reported cases of sudden cessation of cholera can be explained, such as 
the case of Breslau, in 1832, when the shutting up of a pump was followed 
by the very rapid decline of the disease. Doubtless, however, in other cases 
the causes of the cessation are different ; heavy rain, by cleansing air and 
sewers, and by stopping the evolution of effluvia, will sometimes as suddenly 
arrest cholera. 

So, also, other curious facts in the history of cholera become explicable. 
The prevalence of cholera in Eussia, with an out-door temperature below zero 
of Fahr., has always seemed an extraordinary circumstance, and it appeared only 
possible to explain by supposing that, in the houses, the foul air and the 
artificial temperature must have given the poison its necessary conditions of 
development. But Dr Eouth has pointed outt that, in the poorer Eussian 
houses, everything is thrown out round the dwellings ; then, owing to the 
cold, and the expense of bringing drinking water from a distance, the inhabi- 
tants content themselves with taking the snow near their houses and melting 
it. It is thus easy to conceive that, if cholera evacuations are thus thrown 
out, they may be again taken into the body. This is all the more likely, as 
cholera stools have little smell or taste, and, when mixed even in large 
quantity with water, are indetectable by the senses. 

* Cholera in Oxford in 1854, by H. W. Acland, M.D., p. 51. 
f Faecal Fermentation, p. 24. 



('.!> WATKK. 

No decided evidence lias yet been given from ludiii, on this point, hut 
many of tin; exceedingly sudden niithrc.iiks in thai, country would he, more, 
easily accounted lor in that wa.y than hy supposing the a,ir alone, carried the 
poison.* 

in certain extremely rapid and fatal oiifhreaks, as, for exam pie, in theease, 
of the Krenc.li Division in the Dobrudtcha in l*;">. r >, when the wells were. 
thoii'.dit lo he |>oisoned, the. introduction was probably chiefly hy means of 
water. In the cholera at Devna, in the English army, Dr Cattell, of the f>Mi 
Dragoon (luards, states, in an essay I had the opportunity of reading, that 
the river which lormed the chief supply of water for the camp was a, fre.pieiif 
cause. Into this river oll'al was thrown ; the, slaughter house, was on its 
l>a,nks; and men and women bathed in it '//^/r the source of supply. 

It seems on the whole, mo;;!, prohahle. thai, I, he cholera, evacuations, ci!,her 
at once or alter undergoing, as supposed hy I Ytfenkofer and Thiersk, some 
fermentative! change, pass into drinking water or float, ahoiil, in the. almo 
sphere. In either case they are, received info the mouth ;ind swallowed, and 
produce their elfccfs directly on the. mucous membrane, or are, absorbed info 
tin- hlood. The relative frequency of eac,h occurrence, the, incubative period, 
and the. severity of the. disease produced, are points still uncertain, hut at- pre- 
sent the communication through Mie ail 1 appears to he most common. This 
may, however, he merely from deficient observation. 

In addition to the production of cholera, from drinking wafer containing 
the cholera, stools, it has hcen supposed that, the use of impure water of any 
kind /tr<'i//'x/Hwx to cholera, though it, cannot absolutely produce the disease. 
The facts already piloted Oil the. inlliieiice of the Lambeth water seem to 
support this view. If tlio water acts in tin's way, if can only he hy causing 
a constant tendency to diarrho'a, or by carrying into the alimentary canal or- 
ganic mat fer which may be thrown into special chemical changes hy a, small 
(pianlify of choleru poison, which has been introduced with air or food and 
swallowed. 

Vi'llnir A'r/wr. As, like dysentery, ty|>hoid lever, and cholera, the aliment, 
ary mucous memhrane is primarily affected in yellow fever, there, is an (t 
jifiori probability that the cause is swallowed also in Miis case, and that it- 
may possibly enter with the drinking water. Cut no good evidence has heen 
yet brought forward. 

r.oiidini quotes a case, from Kodiard in which a, 1<Y ndi frigate (in 1778) 
took in water at, San hi.'j.o, \vhere yellow fever prevailed. Several days after 
wards yellow lever hroke. out with such violence, that, two thirds of the crew 
were attacked. "And the proof that the only cause was the wafer," says 
1,'ochard, " was thai the persons living with the captain had with them jars 
Idled with water from Kim.pe, and all escaped." lloiidin very properly ob- 
serves, that Miis evidence is very defect, ive ; hut yet, we must, leniemher how 
completely Mie propagation of marsh and typhoid fevers, and of cholera, hy 
water, has heen overlooked, and how exactly this sudden and extensive 
attack resemhles Mie case of the ArgO. 

The liar rack Commissioners have also directed attention to the fact of the 
great impurity of the wafer at (Jibraltar at the time, of the, yellow fever 
epidemic. 



* Dr M'Willi:i.ni (l!r|M.rl. on K|ii<l-iiiirs, K/n'ifi-m. Xr-r. Ti'inix. vol. i. ].. t>7-l) slates llml, :i 
-rucral opinion cxislnl :in ..... v. tin- :imiy iiirdic;i! olliccrs, tli;it, Ihr great rlinli-r:i oiil,luv;ik ol 
I,M;O .'inil iMil, in (.lie n.i'l.li-\vcst, of ln<li:i, was in part, atlrilmlalilr In the inipuril.y of the tank 
\\atcr. " into \vhirh tin- general ordure of l.lu- natives in cantonment is washed during ihe rainy 
season." 

f Trnito <le(!eo-. et ill- Slat. Mnl.. is;,7. t. i. p. 1-11. 



ic /)t.xi>ftt<f'#. No evidence IIM.H yet been given thai any 
of the specific diseases are pmpa^aled in this \vay. 



4. DISKASKS OF TIIK SKIN. 



A curious endemic of boils occurred in Hie vicinity of Frankfort in 1848. 
! was conlined to a small number of persons, and presented favourable oppor 
tunities for investigation. An elaborate inijiiiry was made by I >r ( 'leniens,'"" 
wlneli certainly seems to indicate that the. complaint was caused by drinking 
water containing sulphuretted hydrogen -as, which was set free in some large 
chemic,a,l works, and was washed down by the mi us into the, brooks from 
which drinking waler was derived. The case is most elaborately and logi- 
cally nr^ned, but it certainly seems remarkable, that other instances of the same 
kind should not have been observed, especially as in some, trades there is 
disengagement of large quantities of SH into the atmosphere, and as the, 
drinking of sulphuretted springs is so common. 

5. DIHKASBS OF THE BONES. 

Water impregnated with sulphurous acid gives rise in cattle to a number 

of serious symptoms, among others to diseases of the bones. The sulphurous 
acid evolved from the copper works at Swansea has caused numerous ac.tions 
on a.ccmint of the loss of herbage, and cattle, K'.ossignoi t states that water 
highly charged with carbonate and sulphate of lime was found to give rise to 
exostoses in horses ; pure water being given, the bones ceased to bo diseased. 
I lard water is said to make horses' coats rough. 

6. CALCULI. 

It lias long been a popular opinion that drinking lime waters gave rise to 
calculi (phosphafie and oxalate of lime). Several medical writers have held 
the same, opinion, and have, adduced individual instances of calculi (phos 
phatic ?) being apparently caused by hard waters, and cured by the use of soft 

or distilled water. ( )n a large scale, statistical evidence is, as far a* I know, 
wanting. The excess of cases of calculi in Norwich and Norfolk generally is 
not, in Dr Richardson's opinion, attributable to the. wator.J 

Professor (lamgcc, however, states that sheep are particularly all'ected by 
calculus in the. limestone districts. 

7. GOITUK. 

The old notion, mentioned by Pliny, that drinking snow water is the cause 
of goitre, is now known to be erroneous. The opinion of Chatin also, that 
goitre only prevails where no iodine can be found in the water, is without 
foundation, All the most careful observations, however, chemical and geolo- 
gical, show that the, water of goitrous regions contains large, quantities of lime, 
and magnesia, and is derived from limestone and dolomific regions, or from 
serpentine in the granitic, and mefaniorphic districts. Some still, doubt the 
influence of such waters, but these investigations now embrace the Alps, 
Pyrenees, Dauphine, and some parts of Russia, Kuinaon in North-west India, 
IJra/il (Ually, Coindot, Branson). ranges hasgivensome elaborate analyses 

* Hiili!\s /c.il,sc.liriH, fur N:d. M-..l., 1841), vol. viii. |>. 21 f. 

t Trail,,; .rilvvi.-ini Mili1,:iirc., 1S&7, \:W>7. 

$ Mod. BtetorjrofBSnglaml ; Mc.liml Timc.s :m<l <!:i/.Htc, 1MM, |>. 100. 

{J Ann. ilc Cliimic d, dc I'liys. vol. x.xiv. (>. M-\. 



64 



WATER. 



of the water of the Isere,* to show that magnesia is the great cause ; and has 
pointed out that, in the Alps and in the Pyrenees, the villages most attacked 
are situated on the lines of the magnesia-holding rocks, or of gypsum or ser- 
pentine ; while, at a greater elevation, the hills are gneiss, and contain less 
magnesia, and there are fewer goitres. The geological investigations of 
M'Clellant in Kumaon are singularly convincing, as may be seen from the 
following table compiled from his work : 

Goitre and Cretinism in Kumaoit. 



Water derived from 


Percentage of Population affected. 


With Goitre. 


With Cretinism. 


Granite and gneiss 


0-2 

0-54 

33 






31 


Mica, slate, and hornblende, . . 
Clay slate 


Green sandstone, 


Limestone rocks, 





The greater prevalence of goitre in low, ill-ventilated, damp valleys, seems 
to be caused simply by the soil, the debris of the lime and magnesian rocks 
rendering the water more impure even than that of the hills above. There are 
not wanting, however, some analyses of water which show that the water of 
goitrous regions contains no magnesia (in Rheims, according to Maumene ; in 
Auvergne, according to Eertrand ; in Lombardy, according to Demortain), 
although it contains lime in large quantity ; while there are some few authors 
who deny that the water contains even lime. But this last opinion has gene- 
rally been based, not on chemical analysis, but on the geological argument that 
the water was furnished by a granitic or gneissic district. As, for example, 
the argument of Render, that in some regions in Brazil, where three-fourths of 
the population are goitrous, the villages are on granite, gneiss, quartz, and 
clay. But no analyses are given, and, as in Dauphin^, the springs may arise 
at the junction of limestone and granitic rocks. In Brazil, Castelnau believed 
he could confirm Granges' view of the prevalence of magnesia and lime in the 
water of goitrous districts. 

The amount of lime and magnesia salts required to produce goitre is not 
precisely known. In the gaol at Durham, Johnston states that when the 
water contained 77 grains per gallon (chiefly of lime and magnesia salts), all 
the prisoners had swellings of the neck ; these disappeared when a purer water, 
containing 18 grains to the gallon, was obtained. 

Goitre may be rapidly produced. Bally noticed that certain waters in 
Switzerland would cause it, even in eight or ten days, and cases almost as 
rapid have occurred in other places. || 



* Bailarger (Comptes Rendus de PAcad. t. Iv. p. 475) informs us that in this locality horses 
and mules become goitrous ; young men, he also says, are in the habit of drinking the water, 
so as to produce goitre and escape the military conscription. The occurrence of goitre in horses 
has, however, been denied by Rey. 

f Medical Topography of Bengal. 

J I have included the facts on cretinism also, although I do not wish, in any way, to pre- 
judge the much more uncertain problem of the cause of cretinism. 

Edin. Monthly Journal, May 1855. 

|j Bally, quoted in Cyclopaedia of Pract. Med. art. Bronchocele, vol. i. p. 326. 



EFFECTS OF IMPURE WATEli. 65 



8. ENTOZOA, OB OTHER ANIMALS. 

Whereas the Tcenia solium and the Tcenia mediocanellata enter the body 
chiefly in food, the two forms of the Bothriocephalus latus (T. lata) seem to 
find their way into the body principally or entirely in the drinking water.* 
Both embryo and eggs (but principally, or perhaps entirely, the former) exist 
in the river water. The ciliated embryo moves for several days very actively 
in water ; it may there, after a time, lose its ciliary covering, and then, not 
being able to move further, perishes ; or it may find its way into the bodies 
of man and animals, and there develops into the Bothriocephalus latus. 

It is most common in the interior of Eussia, Sweden, in part of Poland, 
and in Switzerland. 

The Ascaris lumbricoides (Round-worm) appears also sometimes to enter the 
body by the drinking water. At Moulmein, in Burmah, during the wet 
season, and especially at the commencement, both natives and Europeans, both 
sexes and all ages, were, during my service, so affected by lumbrici, that it was 
almost an epidemic, t The only circumstance common to all classes was that 
the drinking water, drawn chiefly from shallow wells, was greatly contaminated 
by the substances washed in by the floods of the excessive monsoon which 
prevails there. Dr Paterson has also noticed similar facts (Aitken's " Practice 
of Medicine," 3d edition, i. p. 854). 

Filaria Dracunculus (Guinea-worm). The intrQduction by water of the 
Filaria has long been a favourite opinion. It has been a matter of debate 
whether it is taken into the stomach as drink, and thence finds its way (like 
the Trichina, to the muscles) into the subcutaneous cellular tissue, or whether 
it penetrates the skin during bathing or wading in streams. The latter opinion 
seems to be the most probable in the majority of cases, j 

Boiling the water before drinking appears to have some preservative effect. 

Leeches. Reference has already been made to the swallowing of small 
leeches, which fix on the pharynx and in the posterior nares. In a march of 
the French near Oran, in Algiers, more than 400 men were at one time in 
hospital from this cause. In some cases the repeated bleedings from the 
larynx have simulated haemoptysis and phthisis, and have produced anaemia. 
A leech, once fixed, seldom falls off spontaneously. In India, no accidents of 
this kind are on record, yet we must assume that they occasionally occur. 

9. LEAD, MERCURY, ARSENIC, COPPER, AND ZINC POISONING. 

It is only necessary to mention the fact of metals pasing into the drinking 
water, either by trade refuse being poured into streams, or by the water dis- 
solving the metal as it flows through pipes or over metallic surfaces. (See 
page 43). 

General Conclusions, 

1. An endemic of diarrhoea, in a community, is almost always owing either 
to impure air, impure water, or bad food. If it affects a number of persons 

* See especially a paper by Dr Knock in the Peterburger Med. Zeitsch. for 1861. An ab- 
stract is given in the Lancet, Jan. 25, 1862 ; and the paper in full is printed in Virchow's Archiv, 
band xxiv. p. 453. 

t The native treatment is the powder of a fungus (Wat-mo), derived from the female bamboo. 
It is most useful. See paper by the author in the London Journal of Medicine, 1849. 

+ See Dr Aitken's long and excellent chapter on this disease, in the first volume of his 
Practice of Medicine, 3d edition, p. 867, et seq. 

Greenhow in Indian Annals, 1856, p. 557. 

E 



66 WATER. 

suddenly, it is probably owing to one of the two last causes, and, if it extends 
over many families, almost certainly to water. But as the cause of impurity 
may be transient, it is not always easy to find experimental proof. 

2. Diarrhosa or dysentery, constantly affecting a community, or returning 
periodically at certain times of the year, is far more likely to be produced by 
bad water than by any other cause. 

3. A very sudden and localised outbreak, of either typhoid fever or cholera, 
is almost certainly owing to introduction of the poison by water. 

4. The same fact holds good in cases of malarious fever, and especially if 
the cases are very grave, a possible introduction by water should be carefully 
inquired into. 

5. The prevalence of Lumbrici, Guinea-worm, or Bothriocephalus latus, 
should always excite suspicions of the drinking and bathing water.* 

* In the preceding pages I have dealt only with the sanitary, and not with the economical, 
question of pure and impure water supply. But this latter is a point of no mean importance, 
and even has a bearing on health. For example, the expenditure of soap from the use of hard 
water is very great, and has even been reckoned in London alone as equal to half a million 
sterling annually. This cost lessens cleanliness, and in this way health is affected. In some 
manufactures soft water is so essential for dyes and other work, that great expense has been in- 
curred by several manufacturing towns to get soft water, although they already possessed a good 
supply of rather hard water. Even the question of good or bad infusion of tea is connected 
with good or bad water. Mixed sanitary and economical considerations have led engineers at 
the present day to very remarkable works for water supply, and it requires no prophet to fore- 
see that the great engineering problem of the day is really the supply of abundant, pure, and 
soft water for great masses of population. Already we see Glasgow bringing down the waters 
of a Highland lake, Manchester and Liverpool collecting rain water from the vast regions of the 
Millstone grit, and London debating whether it would not be economical to turn to account a 
lake fed by the rain on the mountains of Wales. 



CHAPTER II. 
AIR. 

AEMY REGULATIONS ON THE SUBJECT OF AIE AND 
VENTILATION. 

THE Inspector-General or Deputy-Inspector, or Sanitary Officer or Regimental 
Surgeon, is desired to see that the ventilation of barracks, guard-rooms, day-rooms, 
schools, reading-rooms, cells, and hospitals is good, and that the number of men 
in any room does not exceed the regulation number (M&d. Reg.~pp. 29 and 80). 
The number of men placed in a barrack-room or hospital-ward is to depend 
on the cubic space. 

In permanent barracks a man is allowed . . 600 cubic feet.* 
In wooden huts, ...... 400 

In hospital wards at home, . . . .1200 

,, in the tropics, . . . 1500t ,, 

In wooden hospitals at home, .... 600 

The number of men in each room is to be painted on the door (Med. Regs. 
pp. 38 and 79). 

Before temporary hospitals are organised, the sanitary or other medical officer 
is to consider and report on the ventilation as well as other things (p. 39). 

The surgeon or medical officer in charge of a regiment is directed to visit 
" at frequent intervals " all barracks, quarters, hospitals, cells, married sol- 
diers' quarters, to note their general sanitary condition, including ventilation. 
He is also to examine latrines, stables, &c. (p. 81). 

On field service and on transport ships the same duties are enjoined (pp. 
83 and 85). 

The most constant attention is therefore ordered to be paid to this subject. 

With the exception of ordering a certain cubic space, the Medical Regula- 
tions do not give any specific rules as to the rate of change of air, but the 
Report of the Barrack Commissioners (1861) orders that arrangements be 
made to supply at least 1200 cubic feet per head per hour ; or, in other words, 
that the 600 cubic feet of air shall be changed twice in the hour. 

In the Queen's Regulations for the Army the subject of ventilation is also 
several times referred to. The ventilation of cells is ordered at page 236 ; of 
barracks at p. 246 ; of transport ships at p. 346. 

* In the metropolitan lodging-houses, 30 superficial and 240 cubic feet are allowed ; in the 
section-houses of the metropolitan police 50 feet superficial and 450 cubic feet are given. The 
Poor-law Board allows 800 cubic feet for every healthy person in dormitories, and 500 cubic 
feet for every sick person. In Dublin an allowance of 300 cubic feet is required in the registered 
lodging-houses. (From an excellent pamphlet entitled " Essentials of a Healthy Dwelling," 
p. 12.) 

t See Chapter on India for the late recommendations on this point. 

v 9 



68 AIR. 

The regulations thus require the medical officer to be able to report on the 
sufficiency or otherwise of ventilation ; or, in other words, on the rate of 
movement, and on the purity of the air. 

It is a physiological question of the greatest moment to determine pre- 
cisely the amount of air necessary for the vital process of respiration. To 
determine when air is pure, or, if impure, what substances are mixed with it, 
is a chemical inquiry ; and to trace the diseases attributable to deficiency of 
quantity and alterations in quality of air, is a subject for the pathologist. 
How the requisite amount of pure air can be given is an engineering problem, 
and forms the subject of the chapter on VENTILATION. 



SECTION I. 
QUANTITY OF AIE. 

What quantity of air must "be supplied per head per hour, so to dilute the 
products of respiration and transpiration from the sound and sick body, or 
of combustion of lighting, as to keep the air always pure and fresh ? 

SUB-SECTION I. FOR HEALTHY ADULT MEN. 

The question may be answered both by calculation and by experiment. 
Taking the carbonic acid of respiration as a convenient measure of impurity, 
the following table will show the mode of calculation : 

1. An adult man inspires and expires on an average ^ OA n/ > 

30 cubic inches at every respiration, and e I 30 x 16 = 480 cubic 
breathes 16 times per minute, . . J 

2. In an hour he therefore expires 480 x 60 = 28,800 cubic inches, or 

16 '6 6 cubic feet. 

3. The air he breathes in (if pure) contains 0'4 per 1000 volumes of C0 2 , 

while the air he breathes out contains 40 volumes per 1000 of C0 2 in 
addition to foetid organic matter undetermined in amount, and watery 
vapour to saturation; or, in other words, about - 5 or 0'6 cubic feet 
of C0 2 and 136 grains of watery vapour, are eliminated per hour, or 
from 12 to 16 cubic feet of carbonic acid gas in twenty-four hours. 

4. To dilute the expired air so that the amount of 1 

C0 2 shall be reduced to 0-4 per 1000, more I 16-66 x 100- 1666 
than 100 times the volume of expired air must j cubic feet, 
be supplied, or per hour, . . . . J 

5. But as the added air contains some C0 y and as the exhalations from 

the skin require to be also diluted, at least J more must be added, 
which brings up the amount to 2082 cubic feet per hour. 

Pettenkofer,* by a similar calculation, has fixed the amount as 200 times 
the volume of the expired air, which he puts at 300 litres (= 10 '6 cubic feet 
per hour). Vierordt's calculation of the expired air is 12 *75 cubic feet, and 
Valentin's 16 '6 cubic feet per hour. Practical experience confirms this 
result. The successive experiments made by Grassi and others have shown, 
first, that allowances successively given of 10 cubic metres (=353 cubic 
feet), of 20 cubic metres (706 cubic feet), of 30 cubic metres (1059 cubic 
feet), were quite insufficient for one man, and the quantity was gradually 

* Ueber den Luftwechsel von Dr Max Pettenkofer, 1858, p. 85. 




QUANTITY OF AIR. 69 

increased till 60 cubic metres (2118 cubic feet) were given. The air in the 
cell of a prisoner who received that ration of air seemed pure to the senses. 

From a number of experiments, in which the outfloAv of air was measured, 
and the carbonic acid simultaneously determined, I have found at least 2000 
cubic feet per hour must be given to keep the carbonic acid at "5 or *6 per 
1000 volumes, and to entirely remove the foetid smell of organic matter. 
When 1200 or 1400 feet only were given, the carbonic acid amounted to '7, 
8, or -9 per 1000 volumes, and the organic matter was in sufficient amount 
to destroy '00002 grammes of permanganate of potash when 12 cubic feet of 
air were drawn through. My friend Dr Sankey, from careful experiments 
with a fan, found that when, in a ward in the London Fever Hospital used as 
a chapel, 800 cubic feet per head per hour were supplied, the ventilation was 
insufficient. 

General Morin,* from analysis of all the observations made in Paris, and 
from experiments of his own, gives the following amount : 

Amount of fresh air to be supplied per head per hour in temperate climates 
in the following circumstances : 

In Barracks, = 30 cubic metres by day 60 by night. 

= 1059 cubic feet 2118 ' 

Workshops, = 60 cubic metres. 

= 2118 cubic feet. 
,, Prisons, =ibid. 
Theatres, = ibid. 
,, Schools, = 30 cubic metres. 

= 1059 cubic feet. 

Hospitals, = 80 cubic metres day and night. 
= 2825 cubic feet. 



The Barrack Improvement Commissioners order at least 1200 cubic feet 
per head per hour to be given in barracks at home. The older observers 
fixed much smaller amounts. Peclet, in the earlier editions of his great 
work (De la Chaleur), thought 6 cubic metres ( = 212 cubic feet) per head 
per hour sufficient. 

Arago recommended 10 cubic metres per hour, or 353 cubic feet. 

Dr Eeid ,, 10 feet per minute, or 600 per hour; in some 

cases, however, he gave 60 cubic feet per minute, or 3600 per hour. 
Hood recommended 5 cubic feet per minute, or 300 per hour. 
Wolpert 600 cubic feet (Prussian) per hour. 

In mines which are thought to be well ventilated, not less than 1400 
cubic feet are given per head per hour, and if there is much fire-damp, as 
much as 6000 cubic feet have been supplied. t A horse requires 2460 cubic 
feet per hour at the least. 

Although, in order to give precision to the subject, it is necessary to 

* Rapport de la Commission sur le Chauffage et la Ventilation des Batimens du Palais de 
Justice. Paris, 1860. 

t It has been stated, from extensive observations, that, in mines, if it is wished to keep np 
the greatest energies of the men, no less than 100 cubic feet per man per minute (= 6000 per 
hour) must be given ; if the quantity is reduced to one-third, or even one-half, there is a serious 
diminution in the amount of work done by the men. Mr Robert Stephenson even thought that 
100 cubic feet per man per minute would not be enough. This amount includes, of course, all 
the air wanted in the mine for horses, lights, kc. Proceedings of the Civil Engineers, vol. xii. 
pp. 298 and 308. 



70 AIR. 

attempt to define the minimum quantity which is necessary, there is no doubt 
that it is advantageous to have a much larger amount. Wherever practicable, 
we should be contented with nothing short of an almost unlimited supply. 



SUB-SECTION II. ON THE QUANTITY REQUIRED FOR THE EESPIRATION AND 
DILUTION OF THE EMANATIONS OF SICK MEN. 

With regard to sick men, it is impossible to say what quantity should be 
given. In some diseases, so much organic substance is thrown off, that 
scarcely any ventilation is sufficient to remove the odour. At the Hospital 
Beaujon in Paris, it was shown, as long ago as 1847, that 60 cubic metres 
( = 2118 cubic feet) per head per hour did not remove all odour from the 
surgical wards after dressings. Grassi* mentions that a perceptible odour 
diffused from a case of cancerous ulcer in a ward in the Hopital Necker at 
Paris, although the ventilation at the time was 3500 cubic feet per head per 
hour ; but bad odour will perceptibly taint an hospital ward with a greater 
allowance of air even than this. Dr Sankey found the wards in the London 
Fever Hospital to be not free from odour when 3720 cubic feet per head per 
hour were passing in. In the new Hotel Dieu at Paris, it is intended to give 
at least 100 cubic metres (3500 cubic feet) per head per hour, but it is 
questionable whether this is sufficient. Dr Sutherland believes that at least 
4500 cubic feet per head per hour must be allowed when there are many bad 
cases, and especially surgical cases with open wounds ; and during epidemics, 
or when hospital gangrene, pyaemia, or erysipelas are spreading, 6000 cubic 
feet at least must be given ; or, in other words, the supply must be almost 
unlimited. The best surgeons now consider an almost complete exposure 
of pyaemic patients to the open air the best treatment ; and it is well known 
that in typhus fever and (to a less extent) in typhoid, and also in smallpox 
and plague, this complete exposure of patients to air is the first important 
mode of treatment, before even diet and medicines. 



SUB-SECTION III. ON THE QUANTITY OF AIR REQUIRED FOR LIGHTS, IF THE 

AlR IS TO BE KEPT PURE BY DILUTION. 

Air must be also supplied for lights if the products of combustion are 
allowed to pass into the room. Wolpert has calculated that, for every cubic 
foot of gas, 1800 cubic feet of air must be introduced to properly dilute the 
products of combustion, and this is not too much if we remember that a cubic 
foot of good coal gas produces about 2 cubic feet of carbonic acid, and that 
sulphuric acid and other substances may be also formed. A common gas 
burner will burn nearly 3 feet per hour, and will consume 10 or probably 
12 cubic feet in an evening (4 hours), and therefore from 18,000 to 21,600 
cubic feet of air must be introduced for this purpose alone in the 4 hours, 
unless the products of combustion are removed by a special channel. 

A 5) of oil demands, for complete combustion, 1 38 cubic feet of air ; and 
to keep the air perfectly pure, nearly as much air must be introduced for 
1 R) of oil as for 1 cubic feet of gas. 

In mines, 60 cubic feet per hour are allowed for each light ; the lights 
generally are dim, and the amount of combustion slight ; but this seems an 
extremely small amount. 

* 'Etude Comparative des Deux Systemes de Chauffage et de Ventilation. &c. Par C. Grassi, 
1856, p. 12. 



IMPURITIES IN AIR. 71 

SECTION II. 
COMPOSITION OF AIE. 

It would be occupying unnecessary space to enlarge on this subject. In 
addition to oxygen and nitrogen, there are the following substances : carbonic 
acid, watery vapour, organic matter. Perhaps, also, the almost universally 
diffused salts of soda should be reckoned as normal constituents. Alterations 
in, or specific states of these gases (ozone, antozone, &c.), are considered under 
the head of climate. 

The amount of watery vapour varies in different countries greatly, from about 
40 per cent, of saturation to perfect saturation ; or, according to temperature, 
from 1 to 11, or even 12 grains in a cubic foot of air, if that expression may 
be admitted. The best amount for health has not been determined, but it has 
been supposed it should be from 65 to 75 per cent. ; but in many healthy 
climates it is much more than this. (See CLIMATE.) 

The normal amount of carbonic acid in normal air ranges from -02 to -05 
per cent, (or from 2 to 5 volumes in 10,000) ; it increases slightly up to 11,000 
feet of elevation, then decreases ; it is slightly augmented under certain cir- 
cumstances ; as in sea-air by day, though not at night ; the difference being 
between -054 to -033 per cent. (Lewy). 

The normal amount of organic matter is not known, if indeed it is not to 
be considered as an impurity. 

SECTION III. 
IMPURITIES IN AIE. 

A vast number of substances, vapours, gases, or solid particles, continually 
pass into the atmosphere. Many of these substances can be detected neither 
by smell nor taste, and are inhaled without any knowledge on the part of those 
who breathe them. Others are smelt or tasted at first ; but in a short time, 
if the substance remains in the atmosphere, the nerves lose their delicacy ; so 
that, in many cases, no warning, and in other instances, slight warning only, 
is given by the senses of these atmospheric impurities. 

As if to compensate for this, a wonderful series of processes goes on in the 
atmosphere, or on the earth, which keeps the air in a state of purity. 

Gases diffuse, and are carried away by winds, and thus become so diluted as 
to be innocuous ; or are decomposed if compound, or are washed down by 
rain ; solid substances lifted into the air by winds, or by the ascensional force 
of evaporation, fall by their own weight ; or if organic, are oxidised into 
simple compounds, such as water, carbonic acid, nitric acid, and ammonia ; or 
dry and break up into impalpable particles, which are washed down by rain. 
Diffusion, dilution by winds, oxidation, and the fall of rain, are the great 
purifiers ; and in addition, there is the wonderful laboratory of the vegetable 
world, which keeps the carbonic acid of the atmosphere within certain limits. 

If it were not for these counterbalancing agencies, the atmosphere would 
soon become too impure for the human race. As it is, it is wonderful how 
the immense impurity, which daily passes into the air, is soon removed, 
except when the perverse ingenuity of man opposes some obstacle, or makes 
too great a demand even upon the purifying powers of Nature. 

The air passing into the lungs in the necessary and automatic process of 
respiration, is drawn successively through the mouth and nose, the fauces, 



72 AIR. 

and the air-tubes. It may consist, according to circumstances, of matters 
perfectly gaseous (as in pure air), or of a mixture of gases and solid particles, 
mineral or organic, which have passed into the atmosphere. 

The truly gaseous substances will doubtless enter the passages of the lungs, 
and will meet there with that wonderful surface, covered with the most delicate 
tufts of blood-vessels, unshielded even, it is supposed by some, by epithelium, 
which stand up on the surface of 5,000,000, or 6,000,000 air-cells, and through 
which the blood flows with an extreme velocity ; there they will be absorbed, 
and if, as has been calculated, the surface of the air-cells is as much as from 
10 to 20 square feet (and some have placed these figures much higher), we 
can well understand the ease and rapidity with which gaseous substances will 
enter the blood. 

The solid particles or molecules entering with the air, may lodge in the 
mouth or nose, or may pass into the lungs, and there decompose, if of de- 
structible nature ; or may dissolve or break down if of mineral formation ; 
or may remain as sources of irritation until dislodged ; or perhaps become 
covered over with epithelium, like the particles of carbon in the miner's lung. 

If such particles lodge in the mouth or nose they may be swallowed, and 
pass into the alimentary canal, and it is even more probable that this should 
be the case with all except the lightest and most finely divided substances, 
than that they should pass into the lungs. Although incapable of present 
proof, there is some reason to think that some of the specific poisons, which 
float about in an impure atmosphere, such as those which arise from the 
typhoid or cholera evacuations, may produce their first effects, not on the 
lungs or blood, but on the alimentary mucous membrane, with which they are 
brought into contact when swallowed. 



SUB-SECTION I. SUSPENDED MATTERS. 

Nature of Suspended Substances. An immense number of substances, or- 
ganic and inorganic, may be suspended in the atmosphere. From soil the 
winds lift silica, finely powdered silicate of alumina, carbonate of lime, 
phosphate of lime, and peroxide of iron. Volcanos throw fine particles of 
carbon, sand, and dried mud, which passing into the higher regions, may be 
carried over hundreds of miles. 

The animal kingdom is represented by the debris of the perished creatures 
who have lived in the atmosphere, and also it would appear that the ascen- 
sional force of evaporation will lift even animals of some magnitude from the 
surface of marsh water. The germs, also, of Vibrio, Bacteria, and Monads are 
largely present. 

From the vegetable world pass up seeds and debris of vegetation ; pollen, 
spores of fungi, mycoderms, mucedines, which may grow in the atmosphere, 
and innumerable volatile substances or odours. 

From tKe sea the wind lifts spray, and the chloride of sodium becoming 
dried, is so diffused through the atmosphere, that it is difficult, on spectrum 
analysis, to find a spectrum without the yellow line of soda. 

The works and habitations of man, however, furnish matters probably of 
much greater importance in a hygienic point of view. 

Particles of carbon from imperfect combustion of wood or coal, or from 
breaking up of masses of coal, are, of course, extremely common ; starch-cells, 
among all bread-eating nations, appear scarcely less so. In manufacturing 
districts, or in certain trades, there may be cotton fibres, hair, particles of wool, 
particles of iron, steel, stone, clay, &c., &c., and the diffusion of these particles 



IMPURITIES IN AIR. 



plays a very prominent part in the production of lung diseases (bronchitis, 
emphysema, phthisis), and of stomach diseases (dyspepsia). 

In addition to this, dried organic substances are, like fine particles of soil, 
lifted from the ground by wind, and are possibly carried for some distance. 
In some such way, in all probability, certain diseases are propagated, the dried 
substance, as for example, the evacuations of cholera or dysentery, floating 
through the air, and being finally swallowed or inhaled into the lungs. 

The specific poison of smallpox derived from the skin ; of scarlet fever de- 
rived from the skin, throat, urine (?) ; of measles derived from the skin and 
lungs (?), &c., must also be molecular organic matter, or even formed cor- 
puscles, though as yet they have not been recognised. 

But not only are such impalpable fine dry powders lifted into and carried 
in the air, but organised particles, still retaining their form, may be lifted by 
the force of evaporation of water. Eiselt discovered pus cells in the air of an 
ophthalmic ward ; and epithelium cells are found in all ill-ventilated rooms.* 

The extent to which pus or epithelium cells contribute in forming the or- 
ganic matter which accumulates in badly cleaned hospitals, is shown by the 
experiments of Chalvet in the wards of St Louis, t The dust collected, when 
the wards were being cleaned, was found in one experiment to contain 36 per 
cent, of organic matter, and in another experiment 46 per cent. This organic 
matter consisted in great measure of epithelium cells ; when burnt it gave out 
an odour of horn, when moistened and allowed to decompose it gave out a 
foetid putrid smell. 

I have examined the air of various barracks and military hospitals, and 
have detected large quantities of epithelium from the skin, and perhaps the 
mouth ; particles of cotton, wool, and other matters of uncertain origin. Drs 
Frank, Hewlett, St John Stanley, Baynes Reed, De Chaumont, M'Cully, 





Scale of lOOths of an inch. 
Fig. 9. Suspended matter in the air of the Barracks at Gravesend. 

and others, of the Army Medical Service, have also made many experiments 
on this point. The figure given above is a copy of the woodcut given in the 
excellent paper on the ventilation of the barracks at Gravesend, by Messrs 
Hewlett, Stanley, & Reed. $ 



* First detected by Dundas Thomson in the air of a cholera ward in 18-19 and in 1854. 

f Ann. d'Hygiene. July 1862, p. 240. 

i Army Medical Reports for 1860 and 1861. Ventilation of the Barracks at Gravesend, &c. 



74 AIK. 

In all tainted atmospheres of this kind, it would appear that the germs 
of infusoria abound to a much greater extent than in pure air. It seems 
probable that the discovery of suspended matters of this kind will lead to 
most important results. The possibility of a direct transference from body to 
body of cells undergoing special chemical changes is thus placed beyond 
doubt, and the doctrine of contagion receives an additional elucidation. It 
remains to be seen whether pus and epithelium cells becoming dried in the 
atmosphere can again, on exposure to warmth and moisture, undergo the 
chemical changes \vhich had been interrupted, or whether they would not 
rather break down into impalpable particles, and be then totally oxidised 
and destroyed. It is now generally admitted that protophytes, like the Pro- 
tococcus pluvialis, may be dried and yet retain their vitality even for years, 
and may be blown about in atmospheric currents ; but it would not be right 
to infer a similar power on the part of epithelium or pus cells. 

SUB-SECTION II. GASEOUS SUBSTANCES. 

A great number of gases may pass into the atmosphere either from natural 
causes or from the works of man. 
Compounds of carbon 

Carbonic acid (abnormal if exceeding 5 in 10,000 parts). 
Carbonic oxide. 
Carburetted hydrogen. 
Peculiar substances (gaseous) in sewage air. 
Compounds of sulphur 
Sulphurous acid. 
Sulphuric acid. 
Sulphuretted hydrogen. 
Sulphuret of ammonia. 
Bisulphide of carbon. 
Compounds of chlorine 

Hydrochloric acid. 
Compounds of nitrogen 

Ammonia and acetate and sulphuret and carbonate of ammonia (normal 

in small amount?). 
Nitrous acid. 
Mtric acid. 

Compounds of phosphorus 
Phosphoretted hydrogen. 
Organic vapours 

Of the exact composition of the vapours, often foetid, which arise from 
various decomposing animal matters, little is known. The vapours 
of sewage have been examined by Odling, and were found to be 
carbo-ammoniacal, containing more carbon than methylamine, and 
less than ethylamine. 

SUB-SECTION III. NATURE OP IMPURITIES IN CERTAIN SPECIAL CASES. 
Air Vitiated l>y Respiration. 

An. adult man, in ordinary work, gives off in twenty-four hours from 12 
to 16 cubic feet of carbonic acid gas, and also emits an undetermined quan- 
tity of carbonic acid gas by the .skin. 



IMPURITIES IN Alii. 



75 



The amount of carbonic acid in pure air being assumed to be on an average 
0'4 per 10QO, or 4 volumes per 10,000, the quantity in the air of respiration 
as follows : 

Per 1000 volumes. 
Barrack (unventilated) in London (Eoscoe), . 1-242 

( ), - M89 
Chatham (Fyffe), . 1-95 
Military hospital at (Fort Pitt) Chatham numer- 
ous observations, ...... 1"800 to 0"600 

Hospital at Netley (numerous observations), . '800 to '600 
General Hospital, Madrid, . 3-2 to 4 -3 

Boys' school (Eoscoe) 22,141 cubic feet, and 164 
boys for 2| hours, with bad ventilation, 



2-371 

Boys r school (Eoscoe j 4 640 cubic feet and' 6 7 boys, 3-100 
Air of a crowded meeting (Eoscoe), . 
Sleeping-room in Salpetriere, 



Madrid (Da Luna), 

Schoolroom 10,400 cubic feet and 70 girls 

(Pettenkofer), 

Horse stable in Ecole Militaire, with badly-closing 

doors, 



3-65 
4-000 
5-000 
4-8 

7-230 
7-000 



The carbonic acid of respiration is equally diffused through the air of the 
room (Lassaigne, Pettenkofer, Eoscoe) ; it is very rapidly got rid of by opening 
windows (Gore), and in this respect differs from the organic matter, and pro- 
bably from the watery vapour ; neither appear to diffuse rapidly or equably 
through a room. 

By the skin and lungs pass off from 25 to 40 ounces of water in 24 hours, 
to maintain which, in a state of vapour, 211 cubic feet of air per hour is neces- 
sary on an average. Of course, however, temperature and the hygrometric 
condition of the air greatly modify this. 

Organic matter is also given off, the amount of which has never been pre- 
cisely determined, and has been variously estimated at from 10 to 240 
grains.* Perhaps at present it may be approximately stated at 30 grains per 
diem for each adult. This organic matter must be partly suspended, and is 
made up of small particles of epithelium and fatty matters detached from the 
skin, and partly of an organic vapour given off from the lungs and mouth. 
The organic matter from the lungs, when drawn through sulphuric acid, 
darkens it ; through permanganate of potash, decolorises it, and through pure 
water, renders it offensive. Collected from the air by condensing the watery 
vapour on the sides of a globe containing ice (as by Taddei in the wards of the 
Santa Maria Novella), it is found to be precipitated by nitrate of silver, to 
blacken on platinum, and to yield ammonia. It is therefore nitrogenous. It 
has a very foetid smell, and this is retained in a room for so long a time, some- 
times for four hours, even when there is free ventilation, as to show it is 
oxidised slowly. It is probably in combination with water, for the most 
hygroscopic substances absorb most of it. It is absorbed most by wool, feathers, 
damp walls, and moist paper, and least by straw and horse-hair. The colour 



* Report on Hygiene in the Transactions of the American Medical Association, 1850. Cal- 
culating on the larger number, which is in all probability much exaggerated, the American 
reporters have stated that 300 persons spending 12 hours daily between decks on board ship, 
will emit in thirty days 187 Ibs. of animal matter ; and that an army of 20,000 men would emit 
in one day 833 Ibs., or in one year 304,166 Ibs. 



76 AIR. 

of the substance influences its absorption in the following order : black most, 
then blue, yellow, and white. It is probably not a gas, but is molecular, and 
floats in clouds through the air, as the odour is evidently not always equally 
diffused through a room. This quantity is in no very close relation to the 
carbonic acid, though a large quantity of C0 2 derived from respiration, always 
indicates a large quantity of organic matter. In a room, the air of which is at 
first perfectly pure, but is vitiated by respiration, the smell of organic matter 
is generally very perceptible when the C0 2 reaches *7 per 1000 volumes, and 
is very strong when the C0 2 amounts to 1 per 1000. From experiments made at 
Gravesend, Netley, and Hilsea, by various medical officers,* it has been shown 
that the amount of permanganate of potassium destroyed by air drawn through 
its solution is generally in proportion to the amount of carbonic acid of 
respiration. 

It is indeed asserted by Gaultier de Claubry (Ann. d'Hygiene, April 1861, 
p. 348), that in barracks, some minutes only after the soldiers had entered, 
the smell of organic matter was perceptible, though there was at that time no 
augmentation in carbonic acid. 

Assuming that the organic matter has an effect on the permanganate of 
potash equal to that which sugar has,t Dr Angus Smith has calculated the 
amount of organic matter to be 

Cubic feet of Air. 

In a bedroom, . . . .1 grain in 64,000 

56,000 



Inside a house, 

In a closely-packed railway-carriage, 

When the air of a sewer entered a house, 

Ash of midden or cesspool, 

Pure air on high ground, 



16,000 

8,000 

8,000 

62 



176,000 
209,000 

Besides the gaseous products strictly derived from the lungs, the air of most 
dwelling-rooms, when examined by the aeroscope, is found to contain many 
epithelium cells ; many of these are evidently derived from the skin ; they are 
rubbed off, and then float through the air. Some of the cells are smaller and 
rounded, and are either nuclei or are from some parts of the air- tubes. Frag- 
ments of cotton fibre, wool, &c. &c. are also found. The plate shows some 
of these objects found by Messrs Hewlett, Stanley, and Keed in the barracks 
at Gravesend. (See fig. 9, p. 73.) 

Air of Sick-Rooms. 

In addition to being vitiated by respiration, the air of sick-rooms is conta- 
minated by the abundant exhalations from the bodies, and by the effluvia from 
discharged excretions. The quantity of organic matter is known to be im- 
mense, but it is difficult at present to give a quantitative statement. Moscati, 
who (in 1818) condensed the watery vapour of a ward at Milan, describes 
it as being slimy, and as having a marshy smell. The peculiar smell of an 
hospital is indeed very remarkable, and its similarity in hospitals of different 
kinds seems to show that the odorous substance has a similar composition in 

* By Assistant-Surgeons Hewlett (Bombay Army), Stanley (Staff), Baynes Reed (12th 
Regiment), Tnnes (16th Lancers), Yenning (1st Lite Guards), Martin (Staff), and De Chaumont 
(Staff-Surgeon). 

f" In using these numbers, it must be remembered that they involve an assumption of the 
equality of action of sugar and organic matter. It is perhaps safer to express the relation 
directly between the permanganate and organic matter by stating the amount of air necessary 
to decolorise a definite amount of permanganate. 



IMPURITIES 

many cases. The reaction of ozone appears not to be given in such an 
atmosphere. 

Devergie found an "immense amount" of organic matter in the air in the 
vicinity of a patient with hospital gangrene. 

The composition of the dust of a ward in St Louis in Paris examined by 
Chalvet, has been already noticed (p. 73). The dust collected in hospi- 
tals from the skin is stated by Gailleton to be full of sporules of the 
Trichophyton. 

Much interest was excited in 1849 by the discovery by Drs Brittan and 
Swayne of Clifton of bodies very like fungi in the air of a cholera ward ; 
later researches lead to the opinion that this observation was perfectly 
correct, though the connection between these fungi and cholera is still 
quite uncertain. In 1849, also, Dr Dundas Thomson drew the air of a cholera 
ward through sulphuric acid ; various suspended substances were arrested : 
starch, woollen fibres, epithelium, fungi or spores of fungi and vibriones. 
Some of these bodies were found, however, in the open air. 

The scaly and small round epithelia found in most rooms are in large 
quantity in hospital wards, and probably in cases where there is much expec- 
toration or exposure of pus or puriform fluids to the air, the quantity would 
be still larger. 

Considering that the pleuro-pneumonia of cattle is probably propagated 
through the pus and epithelium cells of the sputa passing into the air-cells 
of other cattle ; that even in man there is some evidence of a pneumonic or 
phthisical disease being contagious (Bryson Cases in the Mediterranean Fleet), 
the floating of these cells in the air is worthy of all attention. It may explain 
some of those curious instances of phthisis being apparently communicated. 
In military granular conjunctivitis (gray granulations), the remarkable effect 
of ventilation in arresting the spread (Stromeyer) seems to show that we have 
here a similar case, and that ventilation acts by diluting, oxidising, and 
drying the cells thrown off from the conjunctivas. In many other diseases 
somewhat similar conclusions can be drawn. 



Products of Combustion^ 

The products of firing pass out into the atmosphere at large ; those of 
lighting are for the most part allowed to disseminate in the room. 
Coal of average quality gives off in combustion 

1. Carbon. About 1 per cent, of the coal is given off as fine carbon 

and tarry particles. Angus Smith found in the air of Manchester 
1 grain in a cube of 17,853 feet. 

2. Carbonic acid. In old Paris, Boussingault calculated that 2,500,000 

cubic metres of C0 2 were given out from combustion alone ; and in 
Manchester, Angus Smith has calculated that 15,000 tons of car- 
bonic acid are daily thrown out. 

3. Carbonic oxide. The amount depends on the perfection of combus- 

tion. 

4. Sulphur and sulphurous and sulphuric acids. The amount of 

sulphur in coal varies from \ to 6 or 7 per cent. In the air of 
Manchester, A. Smith found 1 grain of sulphuric acid in 2000 and 
1076 cubic feet. Owing to the presence of these acids, the air and 
water falling through it have an acid reaction. 

5. Sulphuret of carbon. 

6. Ammonia and sulphide of ammonia. 



78 AIB. 

7. Hydro-sulphuric acid (sometimes). 

8. Water. 

From some manufactories there pour out much greater quantities of SO 2 
(copper-works), arsenical fumes, sulphuretted hydrogen, carbonic oxide, &c. 

For complete combustion, lib of coal demands about 240 cubic feet of air. 

Wood produces carbonic acid and oxide and water in large quantity, but 
few compounds of sulphur, lib of dried wood demands about 120 cubic feet 
of air for complete combustion. 

Coal-gas is composed of : 

Hydrogen, . . . . . 40 to 45-58 

Marsh gas (light carburetted hydrogen), . 35 to 40 

Carbonic oxide, . . . . 3 to 6*6 

Olefiant gas (ethylene), . . . 3 to 4 

Acetylene, i 
Tetrylene, } 

Sulphuretted hydrogen, . . . 2 to 3 

Nitrogen, . ' . . . . 2 to 2-5 

Carbonic acid, . . . . 3 to 3 '75 

Sulphurous acid, . . . \ 

Ammonia, or sulphide of ammonium, . -5 to 1 

Bisulphide of carbon, . . j 

In some analyses the carbonic oxide has been as high as 11 per cent., and 
the light carburetted hydrogen 56 in such cases the amount of hydrogen is 
small. As much as 60 grains of sulphur have been found in 100 cubic feet of 
gas.* The Parliamentary maximum is 20 grains in 100 cubic feet. 

When the gas is partly burnt, the hydrogen and light and heavy carbu- 
retted hydrogens are almost destroyed ; nitrogen (67 per cent.), water (16 per 
cent.), carbonic acid (7 per cent.), and carbonic oxide (5 to 6 per cent.), with 
sulphurous acid and ammonia, being the principal resultants. And these pro- 
ducts escape usually into the air of rooms. 

According to the quality of the gas, 1 cubic foot of gas will unite with from 
9 to 1 '64 cubic feet of oxygen, and produces on an average 2 cubic feet of 
carbonic acid, and from -2 to '5 grains of sulphurous acid. In other words, 
1 cubic foot of gas will destroy the entire oxygen of about 8 cubic feet 
of air. 

Oil. A lamp with a moderately good wick burns about 154 grains of oil 
per hour, consumes the oxygen of about 3 '2 cubic feet of air, and produces a 
little more than ^ a cubic foot of carbonic acid ; lib of oil demands from 140 
to 1 60 cubic feet of air for complete combustion. 

A candle of 6 to the Ib, burns per hour about 1 70 grains. 

The products of the combustion of coal and wood pass into the atmosphere 
at large, and usually are at once largely diluted. Even in the smoky air of 
Manchester, the carbonic acid does not exceed on an average the normal 
amount (Eoscoe). Though on a very still day, Smith has found it as high as 
1*2 per 1000, in London; on a windy day, it was - 3, and probably is not often 
above '5. In Manchester, Roscoe found a mean of '39 volumes per 1000. In 
a dense fog in Manchester the amount was - 6 per 1000. Mean for London 
was '37 per 1000 volumes. In Paris, Boussingault calculated that the whole 
of the enormous amount of carbonic acid formed in twenty-four hours was dis- 
sipated in the same time. At Madrid, however, the observations of Ramon 



Chemical News, March 1865, p. 154. 



IMPUEITIES IN AIR. 

da Luna show that aeration is less complete, and that the amount of carbonic 
acid averages -517, and may reach -8 per 1000 volumes. Still, diffusion and 
the ever moving air rapidly purify the atmosphere from carbonic acid. 

It is not so, however, with the suspended carbon and tarry matters, which 
are too heavy to drift far, or to ascend high. As a rule, the particles of carbon 
are not found higher than 600 feet ; and the way it accumulates in the lower 
strata of the atmosphere can be seen by looking at any lofty building in 
London. The air of London is so loaded with carbon, that even when there 
is no fog, particles can be collected on Pouchet's aeroscope when only a very 
small quantity of air is drawn through. 

Sulphurous and sulphuric acid also appear to be less rapidly removed, as 
Angus Smith found a very perceptible quantity in the air of Manchester ; and 
the rain water is often made acid from this cause. 

The products of gas combustion are for the most part allowed to escape 
into rooms, but certainly this should never be allowed. 

Products of Sewage Matter. 

Ordinary London sewage disengages from 1 to 1J cubic inches of gas per 

hour, per gallon (Letheby), consisting of: 

Light carburetted hydrogen, . . . 73 per cent. 

Carbonic acid, . . . .16 

Nitrogen, . . . . .10 

Sulphuretted hydrogen (variable), . . 2 to 3 per cent. 

$ Ammonia and sulphide of ammonium. 

A putrid organic vapour. 

The liquid which collects on the walls of sewers is alkaline from ammonia 
and very offensive from organic matter. The organic vapour is carbo-am- 
moniacal. In sewer water this putrid substance is found to contain more 
carbon than methylamine (C 2 H 5 ]N") = N(H 2 Me), and less than ethylamine 
(C 4 H 7 N) - N(H 2 Ae). (Odling.) 

The air in sewers varies of course very much according to ventilation. It 
is often alkaline from ammonia. The oxygen has been known to be reduced 
to 13-5 per cent., or to be in usual quantity. The carbonic acid may reach 
2 or 3 per cent., and the sulphuretted hydrogen 3 per cent. (Parent- 
Duchatelet) or more ; ammonia or sulphide of ammonium is generally present. 
Organic matter reckoned in Angus Smith's mode (1 grain = 1 grain of sugar 
in the effect on permanganate of potash), may reach 1 grain in 60 cubic feet. 
Fungi and germs of infusoria abound, and meat and milk taint rapidly when 
exposed to sewage air. The putrid vapours are very quickly absorbed by 
charcoal 

The asphyxiating gases of sewers appear to be carbonic acid gas, and sul- 
phuretted hydrogen, and sulphide of ammonia existing in large quantity. 

Air of Church-yards and Vaults. 

The decomposition of bodies gives rise to a very large amount of carbonic 
acid. It has been calculated that when intramural burial was carried on in 
London, 2J millions of cubic feet were disengaged annually from the 52,000 
bodies then buried. Ammonia, and an offensive putrid vapour are also given 
off. The air of most cemeteries is richer in carbonic acid ('7 to '9 per 1000, 
Ramon da Luna), and the organic matter is perceptibly large when tested by 
permanganate of potash. 



80 AIR. 

In vaults, the air contains much carbonic acid, carbonate or sulphide of 
ammonium, nitrogen, hydrosulphuric acid, and organic matter. Waller Lewis 
found little SH, or CH ; or cyanogen, or phosphoretted hydrogen. In his 
experiments, the gas always extinguished flame. 

Fungi and germs of infusoria abound. 

Gases and Vapours given out from certain Trades. 

Hydrochloric acid gas, from alkali works. 

Sulphurous and sulphuric acids, from copper-works bleaching. 

Sulphuretted hydrogen, from several chemical works, especially of ammonia. 

Carbonic acid, carbonic oxide, and sulphuretted hydrogen, from brick-fields 
and cement-works. 

Carbonic oxide (in addition to above cases), from iron furnaces, gives rise 
to from 22 to 25 per cent. (Letheby) ; from copper furnaces, 15 to 19 per 
cent. (Letheby). 

Organic vapours, from glue-refiners, bone-burners, slaughter-houses, hackeries. 

Zinc fumes (oxide of zinc), from brassfounders. 

Arsenical fumes, from copper-smelting. 

Bisulphide of carbon, from some india-rubber works. 

Air of Marshes. 

The air of typical marshes contains usually an excess of carbonic acid, which 
amounts, perhaps, to *6 to '8 or more per 1000 volumes. Watery vapour is 
usually in large quantity. Sulphuretted hydrogen is present, if the water 01 
the marsh contain sulphates, which, in presence of organic matter, are con- 
verted into sulphurets, from which SH is derived by the action of vegetable 
acids. Carburetted hydrogen is also often present, and occasionally free 
hydrogen and ammonia, and, it is said, phosphoretted hydrogen. 

Organic matter also exists in considerable quantity. Discovered by Vau- 
quelin (1810 and 1811, in the air collected over the Languedoc marshes by 
De Lisle), and again by Moscati (1818, in the air of a Lombardy rice-field), 
and examined more recently by Boussingault (1829, 1839), Gigot (1859), and 
Becchi (1861), the organic matter seems to have much the same character 
always. It blackens sulphuric acid when the air is drawn through it ; gives a 
reddish colour to nitrate of silver ; has a flocculent appearance, and sometimes 
a peculiar marshy smell, and, heated with soda-lime, affords evidence of am- 
monia. The amount in Becchi's experiments was '00027 grammes in a cubic 
metre of air ( = '000118 grains in 1 cubic foot). Ozone, led through a solution 
of this organic matter, did not destroy it. Besides this organic matter, various 
vegetable matters and animals, floating in the air, are arrested when the air 
of marshes is drawn through water, or sulphuric acid, and debris of plants, 
infusoria, insects, and even, it is said, small Crustacea are found the ascensional 
force given by the evaporation of water seems, indeed, to be sufficient to lift 
comparatively large animals into the air. It has been stated that ozone is 
deficient in the air over marshes, but the observations of Burdel (Kecherches 
sur les fievres paludeennes, 1858) do not confirm this. He often found as 
much ozone as in other air. In the air collected from the surface of lakes, 
containing some aquatic plants, especially the Chara, there is a large propor- 
tion of oxygen, and this air gives, near , the surface, the reaction of ozone 
(Clemens), while at some feet above the reaction is lost. This is usually 
ascribed to the oxidation of organic matter, which rises simultaneously from 
the water. 



SEPTIC CONDITION OF THE ATMOSPHERE. 

Air in the Holds of Ships. 

The air in the holds of ships is compounded of exhalations from the wood, 
bilge-water, and cargo. Owing to the usual coolness, and comparative im- 
mobility of the air, it often becomes extremely foul. The composition is not 
known, but the smell of sulphuretted hydrogen is very perceptible, and white 
paint is blackened. 

Air of Mines. 

In the metalliferous mines the air, according to Angus Smith,* is poor in 
oxygen (20'5 per cent, sometimes), and very rich in carbonic acid (7*85 per 
1000 volumes on a mean of many experiments)'. It also contains organic 
matter, giving, when burnt, the smell of burnt feathers, in uncertain amount. 
These impurities arise from respiration, combustion from lights, and from 
gunpowder blasting. This latter process adds to the air, in addition to car- 
bonic acid, carbonic oxide, hydrogen and sulphuretted hydrogen, various solid 
particles, consisting of suspended salts, which may amount to as much as 
3 grains in each cubic foot of air. These suspended substances are especially 
sulphate of potash, carbonate of potash, hyposulphite of potash, sulphide of 
potassium, sulphocyanide of potassium, nitrate of potash, carbon, sulphur, 
and sesquicarbonate of ammonia. 

SECTION IV. 
FERMENTATIVE OR SEPTIC CONDITION OF THE ATMOSPHERE. 

The observations of Schroeder, and especially of Pasteur, are likely to have 
a very important influence on the doctrines of Etiology. It must now be 
admitted that countless germs of vegetables and infusoria exist in the air, and 
develop whenever they find an appropriate nidus. The germs of Bacterium 
termo are in great abundance ; those of the Mycoderms, Madelines, and 
Tor nice are also very common. According to Pasteur, during this development 
they produce those chemical changes which have ordinarily been referred to 
the action of oxygen alone. Some of these infusorial ferments, such as the 
Bacteria, require oxygen for their action ; others, like the Vibrios, develop 
only when there is no oxygen. In either case, all that they require is an 
organic menstruum, and then either the one set of ferments or the other comes 
into play, and either produces the fermentative changes and putrefaction, or 
invariably accompanies them. The amount .of these germs in the air appears 
to be in proportion to the organic impurity of the atmosphere, since organic 
fermentable liquids change very slowly, or not at all, when exposed to calcined 
air, or to the pure mountain air,t but very rapidly when exposed to vitiated 
air. A putrid emanation, acting for a very short time, suffices alone to change 
milk (Sanderson), or to commence putrefaction in meat. According to 
Pasteur, different kinds of chemical changes are brought about by different 
germs ; the alcoholic fermentations by the Torula ; the acetous fermentation 
by the Mycoderma aceti; the lactic acid by another kind ; the butyric acid 
fermentation, not by a vegetable but by a Vibrio, which can not only live 
without air, but dies in it. 

The septic condition of the atmosphere, as Dr Sanderson has termed 
it, | derives importance from the possibility of its being concerned in the 

* Report on Mines, Blue-Book, 1864. 

t On this point Pasteur's observations have been denied by others (Pouchet, &c.), but the 
balance of evidence seems to be at present in his favour. 

* Review on the Hygiene of Habitations, in the Brit, and For. Med. Chir. Rev., Oct. 1861. 

F 



82 AIR. 

production of some of the so-called zymotic diseases. It has been lately 
asserted by Davaine,t that the " sang de rate," or splenic apoplexy of the 
sheep, is owing to the presence in the blood of Bacteria, and that sheep, 
rabbits, and horses can be inoculated by transferring the Bacteria. The 
Bacteria is made up of straight, cylindrical, stiff, free filaments, yo*o -g-ths and 
T I rf -g-ths of a millimetre in length, and of extreme thinness. They rapidly 
absorb oxygen, and are destroyed by putrefaction. Sulphuric acid and liquor 
potassse do not destroy them. Davaine found them in the blood of six diseased 
sheep, never in the blood of sound sheep. On the other hand, they have 
been looked for in the blood of braxy sheep without success. Infusoria of all 
kinds, including Bacteria, have been injected by Leplet and Taillardt into the 
blood without any bad effects, except in one case, when decomposing serum of 
ox blood was used, when dysenteric and convulsive symptoms were caused in 
a dog. 

These germs are not destroyed except at a very high temperature. The 
Bacterium termo requires a heat of 212 Fahr. to kill it, and the spores of the 
Mucidines 240 Fahr. A temperature of 262 Fahr. kills all. Merely filter- 
ing the air, by drawing it through cotton-wool, will cleanse it from many 
infusoria (Schrceder). 

SECTION V. 
METHODS OF PUEIFYING AIR. 

The great purifying actions of Nature are diffusion, dilution, transference 
by winds, oxidation, and the fall of rain. Some of these powers are brought 
into play by ventilation, presently to be considered. 

Apart from ventilation, however, we can, to a certain extent, purify air by 
chemical agency, though this must always be looked upon as entirely sub- 
sidiary to ventilation. 

Heat. The application of heat to disinfect clothing was proposed by Dr 
Henry in 1832. It is to be presumed, therefore, that the same amount of 
heat would purify air. Dr Henry disinfected scarlet fever clothing by ex- 
posure to 212 Fahr. ; woollen clothing from plague patients, after being 
heated 24 hours from 144 to 167 Fahr., was worn with impunity by 56 
healthy persons for 14 days. Heat has also been largely used to olisinfect 
clothing by the Americans in their civil war. It is believed that the cessation 
of the plague in Egypt, after St John's day, is due to the increased heat; but 
possibly the hygrometric condition of the air may have more to do with this. 
It has also been surmised that the yellow fever poison is destroyed by an in- 
tense heat. Dr Shaw has collected the few facts which we know on this sub] ect. 

Disinfectants or Deodorants. Neither of these terms are good, or express 
the exact or entire truth, but it is difficult now to change them. 

To affect the composition of the air, we either use solids, liquids, or gases. 

1. SOLIDS. 

Dried earth, lime, charcoal, and carbolates (phenates) of magnesia and lime 
are the principal solids. 

Of these charcoal is the most effectual ; it presents an immense surface to 
the air ; the porosity of beechwood charcoal is such that 1 cubic inch equals 
100 square feet of surface (Liebig) ; it separates and absorbs oxygen from air 

* Compte Rendu de 1'Acad. Juillet 1863. f Chemical News, August 1864. 

J Trans, of the Social Science Assoc. for 1864, p. 558. 

For a fuller account of sewage deodorisers, see Chapter on SEWAGE. 



METHODS OF PURIFYING AIR. 83 

(Sennebier, quoted by Chevallier, " Traite" des Disinfect," p. 146, and A. 
Smith), and oxidises rapidly almost every substance capable of it. Its action 
is not indiscriminate, but elective (A. Smith) ; when charcoal which has ab- 
sorbed oxygen is warmed, it gives off carbonic acid (A. Smith), a proof of its 
great oxidising power. Exposed to the air in bags or shallow pans, it absorbs 
rapidly and oxidises organic matter ; its effect is especially marked with sew- 
age gases, and with the organic emanations in disease. It also absorbs sulphu- 
retted hydrogen. 

Of the different kinds of charcoal, the animal charcoal has the highest 
reputation, and then peat. But the carbon left in the distillation of Boghead 
coal has been stated to be even better than animal charcoal.* If vegetable 
charcoal be used, it should be rather finely powdered. The disinfecting 
qualities of charcoal on air scarcely lessen with time. The use of charcoal in 
this way should be a matter of routine in all hospitals, even the best venti- 
lated. Charcoal filters to be placed before the mouth have been recommended 
by Stenhouse, and might be useful in cases of very impure air. Dried marly 
earth is much inferior to charcoal, but still can be employed in the absence 
of the latter. 

Quicklime absorbs carbonic acid, and perhaps compounds of sulphur, and 
has been employed for that purpose. 

Carbolates of lime and magnesia have been also used : their exact effect on 
the air passing over them is not, I believe, known. 

2. LIQUIDS. 

(.) Solutions of permanganate of potash, chloride of zinc, nitrate of lead, 
and perchloride of iron, and a mixture of sulphate of zinc and sulphate of 
copper (Lanaude's disinfectant), give off no volatile substances, and act merely 
on the air which comes in contact with them. Their effect therefore is 
limited ; and if they are used, the solutions must be placed in flat shallow 
vessels, so as to expose a great surface to the air, or cloths dipped in the solu- 
tion must be hung in the room. 

Nitrate of Lead, or Ledoyen's Fluid, is made by dissolving 1K> of litharge 
in about 7 ounces of strong nitric acid and 2 gallons of water ; a little of the 
water is mixed with the litharge ; the acid is gradually added, and then the 
rest of the water. This quantity will deodorise a moderate-sized cesspool. 
It acts rapidly on sulphuretted hydrogen, and can be depended upon for this 
purpose. 

Chloride of Zinc. Burnett's fluid contains 25 grains to every fluid drachm ; 
1 pint is added to a gallon of water (1 to 8). It is usually said to decompose 
sulphuretted hydrogen until the solution becomes acid, when its action ceases ; 
but Hofmann finds that it does not act on free sulphuretted hydrogen, but on 
sulphide of ammonium, forming sulphide of zinc and chloride of ammonium. 
It destroys ammoniacal compounds and organic matter. The sulphates of 
zinc and copper decompose free sulphuretted hydrogen, with formation of 
metallic sulphide and water. 

Permanganate of Potash or Soda (Condy's fluid) gives off oxygen, and 
destroys organic matter rapidly ; ammoniacal compounds are at once decom- 
posed. The permanganate of soda taken into the mouth destroys at once the 
odour of tobacco (Hofmann). 

Perchloride of Iron (Fe C1 3 ) destroys sulphuretted hydrogen and sulphide 
of ammonia, in both cases setting free sulphur, and forming sulphide of iron . 

* Chevallier Tvait^' des Disinfectants, 1862, p. 143. 



84 AIR. 

But as the sulphide tends to form peroxide of iron, sulphur being set free, Dr 
Hofmann thinks that a powerful oxidising effect may follow the first action, 
and thus a twofold influence may be produced by the perchloride. 

(/>.) Chlorides of lime and soda, nitrous acid, solution of sulphurous acid, 
pyroligneous acid, act on the air chiefly or entirely by the gases which pass off 
from them, and their effects are considered under that head. 

3. GASES. 

The evolution of gases into the air is the most powerful means of purifying 
it independent of ventilation. The principal gases are chlorine, hyponitrous, 
nitrous, and sulphurous acid, ammonia, acetic acid. 

Chlorine. Given off from chloride of lime, moistened with water, and 
placed in shallow vessels, or from chloride of soda, or evolved at once. 

Preparation of Chlorine. Four parts by weight of strong hydrochloric acid 
are poured on 1 part of powdered binoxide of manganese, or mix 4 parts of 
common salt and 1 part binoxide of manganese with 2 parts by weight of 
sulphuric acid and 2 of water, and heat gently. According to the size of the 
room, the actual weight of the substances taken must vary. 

A still better plan is to take 2 table-spoonsful of common salt, 2 tea-spoonsful 
of red lead, half a wine-glassful of sulphuric acid, and a quart of water. Mix 
the lead and salt with the water, stir well, and add the S0 3 gradually. 
Chlorine is evolved, and is absorbed by the water, from which it is slowly 
given out. It may be kept in a jar or stoppered bottle, left open as occasion 
may require.* 

Chlorine decomposes sulphuretted hydrogen and sulphide of ammonium at 
once, and more certainly than any other gas. Its effect on organic matter is 
not quite certain, but it probably destroys it, as it bleaches organic pigments, 
and destroys organic odours, either by abstracting hydrogen, or by indirectly 
oxidising. 

Iodine can be easily diffused through the atmosphere by placing a small 
quantity on a hot plate. Dr Richardson proposes to saturate a solution of 
peroxide of hydrogen with iodine, and to add 2 J per cent, of sea salt ; by 
" atomising " or " pulverising " the fluid by the little instrument used for this 
purpose, the air can be charged with iodine and sea-salt spray very readily. 
Iodine will decompose SH, and destroys, therefore, much odour. Its action was 
investigated byDuroy in 1854,t who showed that it is a powerful arrester of 
putrefaction. It has been recommended, especially in smallpox, by Dr 
Richardson and Mr Hofmann ;} but at present more evidence is wanted to 
prove that it will destroy the virus. As it condenses easily, and does not 
probably diffuse everywhere like chlorine, it might be expected to be less use- 
ful than chlorine. 

Bromine. In the American civil war bromine was rather largely used as an 
aerial disinfectant; a solution of bromine in bromide of potassium is placed in 
saucers and exposed to the air ; the vapour is, however, very irritating, and 
should not be disengaged in too large an amount. 

Nitrous Acid (N0 3 ) can be evolved either by placing nitre in sulphuric 
acid, or more simply, by putting a bit of copper in nitric acid and a little water. 

The efficient action of nitrous acid is very great on organic matter it 
removes the smell of the deadhouse sooner than any other gas. It is rather 

* Medlock's " Record of Pharmacy and Therapeutics," 1858, p. 20. 

t Chevallier, Traite des Desinf'ect. p. 19. J Brit. Med. Jour. Dec. 5, 1863. 

Hyponitrous acid of some writers. 



1'UKIFICATION OF AIR. 85 

irritating to the lungs, and, in some persons, large quantities of "it cause 
vertigo, nausea, and even vomiting. If possible, when it is used, the rooms 
should be cleared ; if not, it should be disengaged slowly, which can always 
be done by diluting the nitric acid. 

I The action of nitrous acid results from the ease with which it parts with 

one equivalent of oxygen to any oxidisable substance, being converted into 
binoxide of nitrogen, which again at once combines with another atom of 
oxygen from the air, which it again gives up, and so on. 

Sulphurous Acid. Most easily evolved by burning sulphur. It decom- 
poses sulphuretted hydrogen (S0 2 + 2HS = 3S + 2HO), and also combines 
with ammonia. It has also been supposed to act powerfully upon organic 
matter (Graham), and probably does so if ammonia is not present. Guy ton 
de Morveau, who studied the action of this acid, was of opinion that.it com- 
pletely disinfects miasms, and gives some evidence on this point.* 

Ozone. In 1860 it was proposed to disengage ozone constantly into the 
air of a ward, by heating a platinum wire by a Bunsen cell. Richardson and 
Barker have also proposed to constantly diffuse ozone through the air of a 
room, by half immersing a stick of phosphorus in water in a wide-mouthed 
bottle ; the amount of ozone can be measured by the common ozone paper, 
and the stopper put in if the tint is too deep. 

Vinegar and Ammonia. The vapour of vinegar is an old remedy, and was 
much employed by Howard in the purification of gaols ; the efficient agents 
were probably heat and ventilation, which Howard made use of at the same 
time. The vinegar would, of course, neutralise any ammoniacal vapours which 
might be in. the air ; whether its action would extend beyond this is doubtful. 

A mixture of 1 part of carbolic and 9 of vinegar, and a little camphor, has 
been used as a disinfectant in cabins on board ship. 

The vapour of ammonia would not a priori seem likely to be at all a disin- 
fectant. Payen, however, believes that it has an effect on malaria, the evi- 
dence, however, merely being, that periodic fevers have diminished in certain 
tlistricts in France since the establishment of manufactories in which ammonia 
is evolved. But so many other possible causes of this diminution suggest 
themselves, that the evidence must be considered very slight. 

Of the three important gaseous disinfectants, chlorine, nitrous acid, and 
sulphurous acid, the nitrous acid is probably the most powerful, but it is use- 
ful to employ all three, alternately, or even together. The use of such agents 
can never supersede ventilation, and if they were allowed to do so, their 
employment would be more hurtful than otherwise, but, as auxiliaries to 
ventilation, we ought not to neglect them. 

Effect of the Gaseous Disinfectants on the Specific Diseases. 

Cholera. Many experiments made in Austria and Hungary, in 1832, 
seem to prove that chlorine diffused in the air has no action on the spread 
of cholera. Mr Herapath, of Bristol, asserted, in 1849, that it was a com- 
plete preservative, and an opinion partly to the same effect was expressed in 
Paris in 1865 ; but the Hungarian experiments are much more conclusive, 
inasmuch as they Avere positive, and not negative, results, that is to say, 
chlorine did not prevent the outbreak of cholera. Charcoal also so far ap- 
pears inert, that in the Crimean war cholera prevailed severely on board a ship 
loaded with charcoal, and Dr Sutherland informs me it is quite useless. Ramon 
da Luna has asserted that nitrous acid has really a preservative effect, arid 
that no one was attacked in Madrid who used fumigations of nitrous acid. 



* Che\allior, Traitr <lcs Pcsinfoct. p. 2t. 



86 AIR. 

But negative evidence of tliis kind requires to be on a very large basis to prove 
such an action. At the same time, the fact should certainly lead to a fair trial 
of nitrous acid fumes in all cholera epidemics. In. none of the trials, however, 
were the substances added to the stools ; they were merely diffused in the air. 

Typhus (exanihematicus). The nitrous acid fumes were tried very largely 
towards the close of the last century and the beginning of this, in the hulks 
and prisons where Spanish, French, and Russian prisoners of war were con- 
fined.* At that time, so rapidly did the disease spread in the confined spaces, 
where so many men were kept, that the efficacy even of ventilation was doubted, 
though there can be no question that the amount of ventilation which was 
necessary was very much underrated. Both at Winchester and Sheerness the 
circumstances were most difficult ; at the latter place (in 1785), in the hulk, 
200 men, 150 of whom had typhus, were closely crowded together ; 10 females 
and 24 men. of the crew were attacked ; 3 medical officers had died when the 
experiments commenced. After the fumigations, one attendant only was 
attacked, and it appeared as if the disease in those already suffering became 
milder. In 1797, it was again tried with success, and many reports were 
made on the subject by army and naval surgeons. It was subsequently largely 
employed on the Continent,t and everywhere seems to have been useful. 

There can be no doubt, in fact, that the evolution of nitrous acid should 
be practised, as a matter of course, in fever wards, proper precautions being 
taken to diffuse it equally through the room, in not too large quantities. 

Hydrochloric acid was employed for the same purpose by Guy ton de 
'Morveau, in 1773, but it is doubtless much inferior to nitrous acid. Chlorine 
has been also employed, and apparently with good results. J 

Yellow Fever. Fumigations of nitrous acid were employed by Eamon da 
Luna, and it is asserted that no agent was so effectual in arresting the spread 
of the disease. 

Dysentery. It is well known that dysentery, and especially the putrid 
dysentery, may spread through an hospital from the practice of the same 
close stool or latrines being used. As long ago as 1807, fumigations of 
chlorine were used by Mojon|| to destroy the emanations from the stools, and 
with the best effects. 

Nothing precise is known respecting the effect of fumigations on the poisons 
of typhoid fever or of the exanthemata. The statement of the efficiency of 
iodine diffused in smallpox rooms has already been referred to. 

SECTION VI. 

DISEASES PRODUCED BY IMPURITIES IN AIR. 

That the breathing of air rendered impure from any cause is hurtful, and 
that the highest degree of health is only possible when to other favourable 

* It. was used at Winchester, in 1780, by Carmichael Smith, and again at Sheerness, in 1785. 
Smith published several accounts : " An account of the experiment made at the desire of the 
Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty. By J. C. Smith, 1796. " 

f Chevallier, Traite des Disinfectants, pp. 39, 40. J Ibid., pp. 14, 15. 

Ann. d'Hygiene, Avril 1861. 

|| His words, as quoted by Chevallier, are interesting : " The dysentery became contagious 
in the hospital at Genoa ; almost all the sick of my division, nearly 200, were attacked ; and, 
as we know that this disease, when contagious, is communicated ordinarily from one person to 
another by the abuse which exists in all hospitals of making the same latrines serve for all the 
sick of a ward, I wished to see if fumigations of chlorine had the power of destroying these con- 
tagious exhalations. I therefore caused fumigations to be used twice daily in the latrines, and, 
in a few days, I was able to destroy that terrible scourge whicli already had made some 
victims." It appears that the chlorine was, therefore, in the air, and not added to the stools. 




EFFECTS OF IMPURE AIR. 



87 



conditions is added that of a proper supply of pure air, might be inferred 
from the physiological evidence of the paramount importance of proper 
aeration of the blood. Experience strengthens this inference. Statistical 
inquiries on mortality prove beyond a doubt that of the causes of death, 
which usually are in action, impurity of the air is the most important. Indi- 
vidual observations confirm this. No one who has paid any attention to the 
condition of health, and the recovery from disease of those persons who fall 
under his observation, can doubt that impurity of the air marvellously affects 
the first, and influences and sometimes even regulates the second.* The 
average mortality in this country increases tolerably regularly with density of 
population. Density of population usually implies poverty and insufficient 
fool, and unhealthy work, but its main concomitant condition is impurity of 
air from overcrowding,t deficiency of cleanliness, and imperfect removal of 
excieta, and when this condition is removed, a very dense and poor popula- 
tion may be perfectly healthy. The same evidence of the effect of pure and 
impire air on health and mortality is still more strikingly shown by horses ; 
for in that case the question is more simple on account of the absolute simi- 
larity in different periods or places of food, water, exercise, and treatment. 
Formerly, in the French army, the mortality among the horses was enormous. 
RossignolJ states that, previous to 1836, the mortality of the French cavalry 
lorses varied from 180 to 197 per 1000 per annum. The enlargement of the 
stables, and the " increased quantity of the ration of air," reduced the loss in 
uhe next ten years to 68 per 1000. At present it is said to be a little greater 
than this, viz., 85 per 1000, of which about 50 per 1000 is from glanders or 
farcy. But in some cases in the French army a much greater ventilation has 
reduced the mortality still more. In the Italian War of 1859, M. Moulin, 
the chief veterinary surgeon, kept 10,000 horses many months in barracks 
open to the external air in place of closed stables. Scarcely any horses were 
sick, and only one case of glanders occurred. || 

In the English cavalry (and in English racing stables) the same facts are 
well known. Wilkinson IT informs us that the annual mortality of cavalry 
horses (which was formerly great) is now reduced to 20 per 1000, of which 
one-half is from accidents and incurable diseases. Glanders and farcy 



* See the chapter on Hospitals for detailed proof. 

f* See Dr Duncan's evidence in the Health of Towns Reports, vol. i. p. 131. On this point 
Dr Gairdner has also brought together some good evidence in his work on " Public Health in 
relation to Air and Water," p. 52, et seq. 

The following part of his table may be quoted : 



Population to one square 
mile in districts taken 
in England. 


Deaths per 1000 per 
annum. 


Population to one square 
mile in districts taken 
in England. 


Deaths per 1000 per 
annum. 


56 


15 


324 


22 


106 


16 


485 


23 


144 


17 


1216 


24 


149 


18 


1262 


25 


182 


19 


2064 


26 


202 


20 


2900 


27 and upwards. 


220 


21 







Admitting that several causes are acting here, the increase is so regular as to lead to the 
belief that one grand condition must be dominant. 
$ Traite d'Hygiene Militaire. Paris, 1857. 

g Wilkinson- -Journal of the Royal Agricultural Society, No. 50, p. 91, et seq. 
|| Larrey Hygiene des Hop. Mil. 1862. p. 63. If Op. cit. 



88 AIT?. 

have almost disappeared, and if a case occurs, it is considered evidence of 
neglect. 

The food, exercise, and general treatment being the same, this result has 
been obtained by cleanliness, dryness, and the freest ventilation. The venti- 
lation is threefold ground ventilation, for drying the floors ; ceiling venti- 
lation, for discharge of foul air ; and supply of air beneath the horses' noses, 
to dilute at once the products of respiration. 

In cow-houses and kennels similar facts are well known ; disease and health 
are in the direct proportion of foul and pure air. 

The air may affect health by variations in the amount or condition of its nor- 
mal constituents, and by differences of physical properties. These latter condi- 
tions will be considered in the chapter on CLIMATE, and in this place I shill 
merely attempt a brief analysis of the effect of the different impurities on 
health. It will be seen that while the immense effect of impure air camot 
be for a moment doubted, it is not always easy to assign to each impurity its 
definite action. The inquiry is, in fact, in its infancy ; it is difficult, pd 
demands a more searching analysis than has been, or perhaps than can be at 
present, given. When impure air does not produce any very striking disease, 
its injurious effects may be overlooked. And in this, it appears to me, conl 
sists the fallacy of some of Parent-Duchatelet's observations. In many cases 
he looked in vain for fever or for marked diseases. But we now know that 
unless the specific cause be present, no mere foulness of air will produce a 
specific disease. The evidences of injury to health from impure air are found 
in a larger proportion of ill health i.e., of days lost from sickness in the 
year than under other circumstances ; an increase in the severity of many 
diseases, which, though not caused, are influenced by impure air ; and a higher 
rate of mortality especially among children, whose delicate frames always give 
us the best test of the effect both of food and air. In many cases accurate 
statistical inquiries on a large scale can alone prove what may be in reality a 
serious depreciation of public health. 



SUB-SECTION I. SUSPENDED MATTERS. 

1. Mineral Substances. A considerable number of substances suspended 
in the atmosphere produce diseases from mere mechanical causes, such as 
ophthalmia or nasal catarrh, from irritation of dust, or bronchitis, from the 
inhalation of fine particles of coal, sand, steel, or other metal, flocks of cotton, 
flax, hemp, or fine dust ; and dyspepsia, from similar substances being swal- 
lowed.* The disease of the lungs appears in some cases to run the course 
of phthisis, but in many instances it is chronic bronchitis, followed by 
emphysema. A large number of the unhealthy trades are chiefly so from this 
cause ; this is the case in part with miners of all kinds. Mr Simon t states 
that, with one exception, the 300,000 miners in England break down as a 
class prematurely from bronchitis and pneumonia, caused by the atmosphere 



* Thackrah enumerates the following trades The Effects of Arts, Trades, and Professions 
on Health, 1832, p. 63 : The workmen who were affected injuriously by the dust of their trades 
30 years ago even, and the same list will almost do for the present day : Corn-millers, maltsters, 
teamen, coffee-roasters, snuff-makers, papermakers, flock-dressers, feather-dressers, shoddy- 
grinders, weavers of coverlets, weavers of harding, dressers of hair, hatters employed in the 
bowing department, dressers of coloured leather, workers in flax, dressers of hemp, some workers 
in wood, wiregrinders, masons, colliers, iron miners, lead miners, grinders of metals, file cutters, 
machine-makers, makers of firearms, button-makers. 

f Fourth Report of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council, 1862, p. 15, et seq. See also 
Aldridge in B. and F. Med. Chir. Rev. July 1864, for the effects of the pottery trade. 



EFFECTS OF IMPURE Alii. 



89 



O.J.U 

: 



11 which they live. The exception is most important. The colliers of Dur- 
ham and Northumberland, where the mines are well ventilated, do not appear 

suffer from an excess of pulmonary disease, or do so in a slight degree. 

In different mines, also, the amount of pulmonary disease is different, 
apparently according to the amount of ventilation. 

The following table by the Kegistrar-General is printed in the Eeport of 

e Commissioners on Mines, Blue-book, 1864. 



Average Annual Deaths per 1000/rom Pulmonary Disease, during 
the years 1860-62 inclusive. 



Ages. 


Metal Miners 
in Cornwall. 


Metal Miners 
in Yorkshire. 


Metal Miners 
in Wales. 


Males, exclu- 
sive of Miners, 
in Yorkshire. 


Between 15 and 25 years, 


3-77 


3-40 


3-02 


3-97 


, 25 35 , 


4-15 


6-40 


4-19 


5-15 


, 35 45 , 


7-89 


11-76 


10-62 


3-52 


,45 55 , 


19-75 


23-18 


14-71 


5-21 


,55 65 , 


43-29 


41-47 


35-31 


7-22 


, 65 75 , 


45-04 


53-69 


48-31 


17-44 



The enormous increase of lung diseases among the miners after the age of 
35, is seen at a glance. 

In the pottery trade all classes of workmen are exposed to dust, especially, 
however, the flat-pressers. So common is emphysema that it is called " the 
potters' asthma." 

So also among the china scourers ; the light flint dust disengaged in great 
quantities is a "terrible irritant." Dr Greenhow states that all sooner or 
later become "asthmatical." 

The grinders of steel, especially of the finer tools, are perhaps the most 
fatally attacked of all, though of late years the evil has been somewhat 
lessened by the introduction of wet-grinding in some cases, by the use of 
ventilated wheel-boxes, and by covering the work with linen covers when 
practicable. The wearing of masks and coverings for the mouth appears to 
be inconvenient, otherwise there is no doubt that a great amount of the dust 
might be stopped by very simple contrivances.* 

Button-makers, especially the makers of pearl buttons, also suffer from 
chronic bronchitis, which is often attended with haemoptysis. So also pin 
pointers ; some electro-plate workmen, and many other trades of the like kind, 
are more or less similarly affected. 

In some of the textile manufactures much harm is done in the same way. 
In the carding rooms of cotton and wool spinners, there is a great amount of 
dust and flue, and the daily grinding of the engines disengages also fine 
particles of. steel. 

In flax factories a very irritating dust is produced in the process of hackling, 
carding, line preparing, and tow spinning. Of 107 operatives, whose cases 
were taken indiscriminately by Dr Greenhow, no less than 79 were suffering 
from bronchial irritation, and in 19 of these there had been haemoptysis. 



* See for further particulars and much interesting information Dr Hall's paper read at the 
Social Science Congress in 1865. 



90 AIK. 

Among 27 hacklers, 23 were diseased.* These evils appear to be entirely 
and easily preventable. 

The makers of grinding-stones suffer in the same way; and children 
working in the making of sand-paper are seriously affected, sometimes in a 
very short time, by the inhalation of fine particles of sand into the lungs. 

In making Portland cement, the burnt masses of cement are ground down, 
and then the powder is shovelled into sacks ; the workmen doing this cough 
a great deal, and often expectorate little masses of cement. I have been 
informed by some of them that if they had to do the same work every day, it 
would be impossible to continue it on account of the lung affection. 

In making bichromate of potash, the heat and vapour employed carry up 
fine particles, which lodge in the nose and cause great irritation, and finally 
ulceration, and destruction of both mucous membrane and bone. Those who 
take snuff" escape this. The mouth is not affected, as the fluids dissolve and 
get rid of the salt. The skin is also irritated if the salt is rubbed on it, and 
fistulous sores are apt to be produced. No effect is noticed to be produced on 
the lungs, t Washing the skin with subacetate of lead is the best treatment. 

At present it would appear that the nature of the suspended substance has 
little influence ; the quantity, fineness, and irritating properties (depending 
probably on the sharp angles of the particles) appear to be the important 
points. 

In the process of sulphuring vines the eyes often suffer, and sometimes 
(especially when lime is used with the sulphur) decided bronchitis is produced. 

In some trades, or under special circumstances, the fumes of metals, or par- 
ticles of metallic compounds, pass into the air. Brassfounders suffer from 
bronchitis and asthma as in other trades in which dust is inhaled ; but in 
addition, they also suffer from the disease described by Thackrah as " brass 
ague," and by Dr Greenhow as " brassfounders' ague." It appears to be 
produced by the inhalation of fumes of oxide of zinc ; the symptoms are 
tightness and oppression of the chest, with indefinite nervous 1 sensations, 
followed by shivering, an indistinct hot stage, and profuse sweating. These 
attacks are not periodical. 

Coppersmiths are affected somewhat in the same way, by the fumes arising 
from the partly volatilised metal, or from the spelter (solder). 

Tinplate workers also suffer occasionally from the fumes of the soldering. 

Plumbers inhale the volatilised oxide of lead which rises during the process 
of casting. Nausea and tightness of the chest are the first symptoms, and 
then colic and palsy. 

Manufacturers of white lead inhale the dust chiefly from the white beds 
and the packing. 

House painters also inhale the dust of white lead to a certain extent, 
though in these, as in former cases, much lead is swallowed from want of 
cleanliness of the hands in taking food. 

Workers in mercury, silverers of mirrors, and water gilders (men who coat 
silver with an amalgam of mercury and gold), are subject to mercurialismus. 

Workmen who use arsenical compounds, either in the making of wall papers 
or of artificial flowers, &c., suffer from slight symptoms of arsenical poisoning, 
and many persons who have inhaled the dust of rooms papered with arsenical 
papers have suffered from both local and constitutional effects ; the local being 
smarting of the gums, eyes, nose, oedema of the eyelids, and little ulcers on 
the exposed parts of the body ; the constitutional being weakness, fainting, 



* Mr Simon's Fourth Report, p. 19. t Chevallier, Ann. d'Hygiene, July 1863, p. 83. 



EFFECTS OF IMPURE AIR. , 91 

sthma, anorexia, thirst, diarrhoea, and sometimes even severe nervous symp- 
toms. Arsenic has been detected in the urine of such persons. 

2. Germs of Infusoria, Fungi, fyc., in the Air. The speculations which 
have attributed the spread of epidemic diseases to the action of fungi * have 
regained interest since the investigations of Schroeder, Pasteur, and Davaine. 
The observations of the latter observer on the production of the splenic 
apoplexy of the sheep by the multiplication of Bacteria in the blood, if 
correct, can hardly be without some effect on our opinions respecting 
analogous diseases. At present it can scarcely be said that this subject 
of propagation of the epidemic diseases by fungi has passed out of the realm 
of conjecture. 

Dr Salisburyt of Ohio has affirmed that the prevalence of measles in the 
Federal army arose from fungi on mouldy straw. He inoculated himself, his 
wife, and forty other persons with the fungi, and produced a disease like 
measles in from 24 to 96 hours. It is stated also that this disease was 
protective against measles. I have not yet seen any confirmatory observa- 
tions ; but it has been objected to Dr Salisbury's statement that it seems 
extraordinary that the lumbermen of Maine, Pennsylvania, and Minnesota, who 
have slept on mouldy straw since childhood, should contract measles from beds 
of like material in military encampments. Dr Woodward (United States 
Army) has repeated Dr Salisbury's experiments, and does not confirm them.J 

3. Organic. Substances. The most important class of diseases produced by 
impurities in the atmosphere is certainly caused by the presence of organic 
matters floating in the air, since under this heading come all the specific 
diseases. The exact condition of the organic matter is unknown ; whether 
it is in the form of impalpable particles, or moist or dried epithelium and 
pus cells, is a point for future inquiry ; and whether it is always contained 
in the substances discharged or thrown off from the body (as is certainly the 
case in smallpox), or is produced by putrefactive changes in those discharges, 
as is supposed to be the case in cholera and dysentery, is also a matter of 
doubt. But, from the way in which, in many cases, the organic substance 
is absorbed by hygroscopic substances, it would appear that it is often com- 
bined with, or is at any rate condensed with, the water of the atmosphere. 

The specific poisons manifestly differ in the ease with which they are oxi- 
dised and destroyed. The poison of typhus exanthematicus is very readily 
got rid of by free ventilation, by means of which it must be at once diluted 
and oxidised, so that a few feet give, under such circumstances, sufficient 
protection. This is the case also with the poison of oriental plague ; while, 
on the other hand, the poisons of smallpox and scarlet fever will spread in 
spite of very free ventilation, and retain their power of causing the same 
disease for a long time ; even it may be for weeks, or in the case of scarlet 
fever, for months. Is it that in one case the poison is a mere cloud of 
molecules ; that in the other it is contained in epithelium and pus cells, thrown 
off from the skin in both cases, and from the throat also in one ; and which 
adhering to walls, clothes, &c., partially dry, and then can be rendered again 
active by warmth and moisture ? 

In the case of malaria, the process of oxidation must be slow, since the 
poison can certainly be carried for many hundred yards ; even sometimes for 
more than a mile in an upward direction, or horizontally if it does not pass 
over the surface of water. The poison of cholera also, it is supposed, can be 



* Cowdell, Mitchell, Holland, &c. 

t American Journal of the Medical Sciences, July 1862. 

J Camp Diseases in the U.S. Army, p. 278. The fungus is a Penicillium. 



92 AII;. 

blown by the winds for some distance ; but the most recent observations on 
its mode of spread lead to the conclusion, that the portability of the poison 
in this way has been overrated. 

But organic matters carrying the specific poisons are not the only suspended 
substances which thus float through the atmosphere. 

There can be no doubt that while purulent and granular ophthalmia most 
frequently spreads by direct transference of the pus or epithelium cells, by 
means of towels, &c., and that erysipelas and hospital gangrene, in surgical 
wards, are often carried in a similar way, by dirty sponges and dressings, 
another mode of transference is by the passage into the atmosphere of dis- 
integrating pus cells and putrefying organic particles, and hence the great 
effect of free ventilation in military ophthalmia (Stromeyer), and in erysipelas 
and hospital gangrene. In both these diseases, great evaporation from the 
walls or floor seems in some way to aid the diffusion, either by giving a great 
degree of humidity, or in some other way. The practice of frequently washing 
the floors of hospitals is well known to increase the chance of erysipelas. 

It is a question even whether we shall not be obliged to extend this view, 
and to believe that every pus or epithelium cell, or even formless organic 
substance, floating in the air, may, if it find a proper place or nidus in or on 
which it can be received, communicate to it its own action. 

SUB-SECTION II. GASEOUS MATTERS. 

(a.) Carbonic Acid. The normal quantity of carbonic acid being '4 volumes 
per 1000, it produces fatal results when the amount reaches from 50 to 
100 per 1000 volumes; and at an amount much beloAV this, 15 or 20 per 
1000, it produces, in some persons at any rate, severe headache. Other 
persons can inhale, for a brief period, considerable quantities of carbonic; 
acid without injury ;* and animals can be kept for a long time in an at- 
mosphere highly charged with it, provided the amount of oxygen be also 
increased. Probably, indeed, discomfort, indicating the commencement of 
poisoning, is produced by a quantity below this ; but sufficient experiments 
to show the precise effect of small quantities of carbonic acid, unmixed with 
other gaseous substances, in different persons, are yet wanting. In the air of 
respiration, headache and vertigo are produced when the amount of carbonic 
acid is not more than 1*5 to 3 volumes per 1000 ; but then organic matters, 
and possibly other gases, are present in the air, and the amount of oxygen is 
also lessened. Well-sinkers, when not actually disabled from continuing their 
work by carbonic acid, are often affected by headache, sickness, and loss of 
appetite ; but the amount of carbonic acid has never been determined. 

The effect of constantly breathing an atmosphere containing an excess of 
carbonic acid (up to 1, or 1*5 per 1000 volumes) is not yet perfectly known. 
Dr Angus Smith t has attempted to determine the effect of carbonic acid per 
se, the influence of the organic matter of respiration being eliminated. H 
found that 30 volumes per 1000 caused great feebleness of the circulation, 
with usually slowness of the heart's action ; the respirations were, on the con- 
trary, quickened, but were sometimes gasping. These effects lessened when 
the amount of carbonic acid was smaller, but were perceptible when the 
amount was as low as 1 volume per 1000; an amount often exceeded in 
dwelling-houses. At the same time, this is not the case always, for in the air 



* It is stated that Dr Christison lias employed aiv containing 20 per cent, of carbonic acid 
as an anaesthetic. (Taylor's Jurisprudence, 1865. p. 713.) 
t Chemical News, Feb. 1865. 



EFFECTS OF IMPURE AIR. 93 

of a soda-water manufactory, where the carbonic acid was 2 per 1000, Smith 
found no discomfort to be produced. It has been supposed that lung diseases, 
especially phthisis, are produced by it ; but as this opinion has been drawn 
merely from the effects of the air of respiration, which is otherwise vitiated, 
it cannot be considered to stand on any sure basis. 

The presence of a large amount of carbonic acid in the air may lessen the 
elimination of carbonic acid from the lungs, and thus retain the gas in the 
blood, and thus in time possibly produce serious alterations in nutrition. 

(6.) Carbonic Oxide. Of the immense effect of carbonic oxide, there is no 
doubt. Less than one-half per cent, has produced poisonous symptoms, and 
more than one per cent, is rapidly fatal to animals. It appears from Bernard's, 
and from Lothar Meyer's observations,* that the carbonic oxide, volume for 
volume, completely replaces the oxygen in the blood, and cannot be again dis- 
placed by oxygen, so that the person dies asphyxiated ; but Pokrowsky has 
shown t that the carbonic oxide may gradually be converted into carbonic 
acid, and be in that way got rid of. It seems, in fact, as Hoppe conjectured, 
to completely paralyse, so to speak, the red particles, so that they cannot any 
longer be the carriers of oxygen. The observations of Dr Kleber show that, 
in addition to loss of consciousness and destruction of reflex action, the car- 
bonic oxide causes complete atony of the vessels, diminution of the vascular 
pressure, and slowness of circulation, and finally, paralysis of the heart. A 
very rapid parenchymatous degeneration takes place in the heart and muscles 
generally, and in the liver, spleen, and kidneys. 

(a.) Sulphuretted Hydrogen. The evidence with regard to sulphuretted 
hydrogen is contradictory. While dogs and horses are affected by compara- 
tively small quantities (1-25 and 4 volumes per 1000 volumes of air, and 
suffer from purging and rapid prostration), men can breathe a larger quantity. 
Parent-Duchatelet inhaled an atmosphere containing 29 volumes per 1000 
for some short time. 

When inhaled in smaller quantities, and more continuously, it has appeared 
in some cases harmless, in others, hurtful. Thackrah, in his inquiries, could 
trace no bad effect. It is said that in the Bonnington chemical works, 
where the ammoniacal liquor from the Edinburgh gas-works is converted into 
sulphate and chloride of ammonium, the workmen are exposed to the fumes 
of hydro-sulphate of ammonia, and of hydro-sulphuric acid, to such an extent 
that coins are blackened ; yet no special malady is known to result. The same 
observations have been made at the Britannia metal-works, where a superficial 
deposit of sulphuret is decomposed with acids. It has not as yet been shown 
that these workmen enjoy an equal share of health and vigour with those en- 
gaged in other trades, and it must also be remembered, that the deleterious 
atmosphere is only breathed during part of the day, and that the quantity of 
SH may, after all, be small, as no quantitative analysis has yet been made. 

So large a quantity of SH is given out from some of the salt marshes at 
Singapore, that slips of paper moistened in acetate of lead are blackened in 
the open air, yet, not only is no bad effect found to ensue, but Dr Little has 
even conjectured (on very disputable grounds, however) that the SH may 
neutralise the marsh miasma. 

On the other hand, some of the worst marshes in Italy are those in which 

* De Sanguine Oxydo Carbonico Infecto, 1858. Reviewed in "Virchow's Archiv," band xv. 
p. 389. See also Letheby, " Chemical News," April 1862. 

f Virchow's Archiv, band'xxx. p. 525 (1864). J Ibid, band xxxii. p. 450 (1865). 

On dogs, Herbert Barker found a larger quantity necessary than that stated above ; viz., 
4-29 per 1000 is rapidly fatal; 2'06 per 1000 may be fatal; but -5 per 1000 may produce 
.serious symptoms. 



94 AIR. 

SH exists in large quantity in the air, and, in direct opposition to Little, it 
has been supposed that the highly poisonous action of the marsh gas is partly 
owing to the sulphuretted hydrogen. Again, in the making of the Thames 
Tunnel, the men were exposed to SH, which was formed from the decom- 
position of iron pyrites ; after a time they "became feeble, lost their appetites, 
and finally passed into a state of great prostration and anaemia. Nor, as far 
as is known, was there anything to account for this except the presence of 
sulphuretted hydrogen.* 

Dr Josephson and Eawitzt have also investigated in mines effects produced 
apparently by sulphuretted hydrogen ; two forms of disease are produced 
pure narcotic, and convulsive and tetanic symptoms. In the first case, the 
men became pale, the extremities got cold. There was headache, vertigo, a 
small weak pulse, sweating, and great loss of strength. On this, spasms and 
tremblings sometimes followed, and even tetanus. These symptoms were 
acute, and not, as in the Thames Tunnel case, chronic. When these attacks 
occurred, the temperature was high and the air stagnant. 

The observations of Clemens, also, on the development of boils from the 
passage of SH into the drinking water from the air, if not convincing, cannot 
be overlooked. (See page 63.) 

The symptoms produced by sulphide of ammonium in dogs are said, by 
Herbert Barker,:}: to differ from those of SH. There is vomiting without 
purging, quickened pulse, and heat of skin, followed by coldness and rapid 
sinking. When sulphuretted hydrogen and sulphide of ammonium, dissolved 
in water, are injected into the blood, they, and especially SH, produce the 
same symptoms as the injection of non-corpuscular putrid fluids, viz., profuse 
diarrhceal evacuations, with sometimes marked choleraic symptoms and decided 
lowering of the temperature of the body, congestions of the lungs, liver, spleen, 
and kidneys, irritation of the spine, and opisthotonos. But, in this case, a 
much larger quantity will be introduced than by inhalation through the lungs. 

(d.) Carburetted Hydrogen. A large quantity of carburetted hydrogen 
can be breathed for a short time ; as much, perhaps, as 200 to 300 volumes 
per 1000. Above this amount it produces symptoms of poisoning, headache, 
vomiting, convulsions, stertor, dilated pupil, &c. 

Breathed in small quantities, as it constantly is by some miners, it has not 
been shown to produce any bad effects, but here, as in so many other cases, 
it is to be wished that a more careful examination of the point were made. 
Without producing any marked disease, it may yet act injuriously on the health. 

(e.) Ammoniacal Vapours. An irritating effect on the conjunctiva seems 
to be the most marked effect of the presence of these vapours. I am not 
aware of any evidence showing any other effect on the health. 

(/.) Sulphurous Acid Gas. The bleachers in cotton and worsted manu- 
factories, and storers of woollen articles, are most exposed to this gas, the 
amount of which in the atmosphere is, however, unknown. The men suffer 
from bronchitis, and are frequently sallow and anaemic. 

When sulphurous acid is evolved in the open air, and therefore at once 
largely diluted, as in copper smelting, it does not appear to produce any bad 
effects in men, though from being washed down with rain, it affects herbage 
and, through the herbage, cattle, causing affections of the bones, falling off 
of the hair, and emaciation. 



* Taylor's Med. Jurisp. 1865, p. 727. 

t Schmidt, Jahr. band ex. p. 334, and band cxvii. p. 85. 

+ On Malaria and Miasmata, p. 212. 

Weber, Syd. Soc. Year-Book for 1864, p. 227. 




EFFECTS OF IMPURE AIR. 95 

Hydrochloric Acid Vapours in large quantities are very irritating to 
the lungs ; when poured out into the air, as was formerly the case in the 
alkali manufactures, they are so diluted as apparently to produce no effect on 
men, but they completely destroy vegetation. In some processes for making 
steel, hydrochloric, sulphurous and nitrous acids, and chlorine are all given 
out, and cause bronchitis, pneumonia, and destruction of lung tissue, as well as 
eye diseases.* 

(h.) Bisulphide of Carbon. In certain processes in the manufacture of 
vulcanised india-rubber a noxious gas is given off, supposed to be the vapour 
of bisulphide of carbon. It produces headache, giddiness, pains in the limbs, 
formication, sleeplessness, nervous depression, and complete loss of appetite. 
Sometimes there is deafness, dyspnoea, cough, febrile attacks, and sometimes 
even amaurosis and paraplegia (Delpech). The effects seem due to a direct 
anaesthetic effect on the nervous tissue. 



SUB-SECTION III. EFFECT OF AIR IMPURE FROM SEVERAL SUBSTANCES 
ALWAYS CO-EXISTING. 

The examination of the effects of individual gases, however important, can 
never teach us the results which may be produced by breathing air rendered 
foul by a mixture of impurities. The composite effect may possibly be very 
different from what would have been anticipated from a knowledge of the 
action of the isolated substances. 

(#.) Air rendered Impure by Respiration (see page 74). The effect of the 
fo3tid air containing organic matter, excess of water and carbonic acid, pro- 
duced by respiration, is very marked upon many people ; heaviness, headache, 
inertness, and in some cases nausea, are produced. From experiments on 
animals in which the carbonic acid and watery vapour were removed, and 
organic matter alone left, Gavarret and Hammond have found that the organic 
matter is highly poisonous. Hammond found that a mouse died in forty-five 
minutes, and I have known cases in which the inhalation of such an atmo- 
sphere for three or four hours produced in men decided febrile symptoms 
(increased temperature, quickened pulse, furred tongue, loss of appetite, and 
thirst), for even twenty-four or forty-eight hours subsequently. 

When the air is rendered still more impure than this, it is rapidly fatal, as 
in the cases of the Black Hole at Calcutta; of the prison in which 300 
Austrian prisoners were put after the battle of Austerlitz (when 260 died 
very rapidly) ; and of the steamer Londonderry. The poisonous agencies are 
probably the organic matter and the deficient oxygen, as the symptoms are 
not those of pure asphyxia. If persons survive, a febrile condition is left 
behind, which lasts three or four days, or there are other evidences of affected 
nutrition, such as boils, &c. 

When air more moderately vitiated by respiration is breathed for a longer 
period, and more continuously, its effects become complicated with those of 
other conditions. Usually a person who is compelled to breathe such an 
atmosphere is at the same time sedentary, and, perhaps, remains in a con- 
strained position for several hours, or possibly is also under-fed or intemperate. 
But allowing the fullest effect to all other agencies, there is no doubt that the 
breathing the vitiated atmosphere of respiration has a most injurious effect on 
the health, t Persons soon become pale, and partially lose their appetite, and 

* Jordan Canstatt's Jahresb. for 1863, band vii. p. 76. 

t See among a number of other instances Guy's evidence before the Health of Towns Com- 
mission, vol. i. p. 89, et seq., and S. Smith, ibid. p. 37, et seq. 



96 AIR. 

after a time decline in muscular strength and spirits. The aeration and 
nutrition of the blood seem to be interfered with, and the general tone of the 
system falls below par, so that there appears to be less resistance to the action 
of morbific causes. Of special diseases it appears pretty clear that pulmonary 
affections are more common. 

Such persons do certainly appear to furnish a most undue percentage of 
phthisical cases. The production of phthisis from impure air (aided most 
potently, as it often is, by coincident conditions of want of exercise, want of 
good food, and excessive work) is no new doctrine. Baudelocque long ago 
asserted that impure air is the great cause of scrofula (phthisis), and that here- 
ditary predisposition, syphilis, uncleanness, want of clothing, bad food, cold 
and humid air, are by themselves non-effective. Carmichael, in his work on 
scrofula (1810), gives some most striking instances, where impure air, bad diet, 
and deficient exercise concurred together to produce a most formidable mortality 
from phthisis. In one instance, in the Dublin House of Industry, where 
scrofula was formerly so common as to be thought contagious, there were in 
one ward, 60 feet long and 18 feet broad (height not given), 38 beds, each con- 
taining four children ; the atmosphere was so bad that in the morning the air 
of the ward was unendurable. In some of the schools examined by Car- 
michael, the diet was excellent, and the only causes for the excessive phthisis 
were the foul air and want of exercise. This was the case also in the house 
and school examined by Neil Arnott in 1832. Lepelletier (Traite Complet de 
la Maladie Scrophuleuse) also records some good evidence. Professor Alison, 
of Edinburgh, strongly insisted on this fact, and Sir James Clark, in his in- 
valuable work, lays great stress on it. Neil Arnott, Toynbee, Guy, and others 
brought forward some striking examples before the Health of Towns Com- 
mission (First Eeport, 1844, vol. i. pp. 52, 60, 69, 79, &c:). Dr Henry 
Cormac has insisted with great cogency on this mode of origin of phthisis, and 
Dr Greenhow, in his " Eeport on the Health of the People of England," also 
enumerates this cause as occupying a prominent place. 

In prisons, the great mortality which formerly occurred from phthisis, as 
for example at Millbank (Baly), seemed to be owing to bad air conjoined with 
inferior diet and moral depression. 

Two Austrian prisons in which the diet and mode of life were, it is believed, 
essentially the same, offer the following contrast : 

In the prison of Leopoldstadt at Vienna, which was very badly ventilated, 
there died in the years 1834-1847, 378 prisoners out of 4280, or 86 per 1000, 
and of these no less than 220, or 51*4 per 1000, died from phthisis; there 
were no less than 42 cases of acute miliary tuberculosis. 

In the well- ventilated House of Correction in the same city, there were in 
five years (1850-1854) 3037 prisoners, of whom 43 died, or 14 per 1000, and 
of these 24, or 7 -9 per 1000, died of phthisis. The comparative length of 
sentences is not given, but no correction on this ground, if needed, could ac- 
count for this discrepancy. The great prevalence of phthisis in some of the 
Indian gaols appears to be owing to the same cause, combined with insufficient 
diet. 

The now well-known fact of the much greater prevalence of phthisis in most 
of the European armies (French, Prussian, Eussian, Belgian, and English) 
can scarcely be accounted for in any other way than by supposing the vitiated 
atmosphere of the barrack-room to be in fault. This is the conclusion to which 
the Sanitary Commissioners for the Army came in their celebrated report, after 
assigning all probable influence to exposure on duty, intemperance, and a some- 
what faulty diet. And if we must attribute some influence to the pressure of 
ill-made accoutrements, and to the great prevalence of syphilis, still it can 



I 



EFFECTS OF IMPUliE AIR. 97 

hardly be doubted that the chief cause of phthisis among soldiers Jias to be 
sought somewhere else, when we see that with very different duties, a variable 
amount of syphilis, and altered diet, a great amount of phthisis has prevailed 
in the most varied stations of the army, and in the most beautiful climates ; 
in Gibraltar, Malta, Ionia, Jamaica, Trinidad, Bermuda, (fee. (see history of 
these stations), in all which places the only common condition was the vitiated 
atmosphere which our barrack system everywhere produced. And, as if to 
clench the argument, there has been of late years a most decided decline in 
phthisical cases in these stations, while the only circumstance which has notably 
changed in the time has been the condition of the air. So also the extraor- 
dinary amount of consumption which prevails among the men of the Royal 
and Merchant Navies, and which, in some men-of-war, has amounted to a veri- 
table epidemic, is in all probability attributable to the faulty ventilation.* 

The deaths from phthisis in the Royal Navy averaged (3 years) 2 -6 per 1000 
of strength, and the invaliding 3 '9 per 1000. The amount of consumption 
and of all lung diseases was remarkably different in the different ships. These 
inferences have received the strongest corroboration from the outbreak of a lung 
disease leading to the destruction of lung tissue in several of the ships on the 
Mediterranean station in 1860. Dr Bryson traces this clearly to contamination 
of the air, and notices that in several cases the disease appeared to be propagated 
by contagion, t It may be inferred that pus cells were largely thrown off 
during coughing, and, floating through the air, were received into the lungs of 
other persons. 

The production of phthisis in animals confirms this view. The case of the 
monkeys in the zoological gardens, narrated by Dr Arnott, is a striking instance. 
Cows in close stables frequently die from phthisis, or at any rate from a 
destructive lung disease (not apparently pleuro-pneumonia), while horses, who 
in the worst stables have more free air, and get a greater amount of exercise, 
are little subject to phthisis. But not only phthisis may reasonably be 
considered to have one of its modes of origin in the breathing an atmosphere 
contaminated by respiration, but other lung diseases, bronchitis and pneu- 
monia, appear also to be more common in such circumstances. Both among 
seamen and civilians working in confined close rooms, who are otherwise so 
differently circumstanced, we find an excess of the acute lung affections. The 
only circumstance which is common to the two classes is the impure atmo- 
sphere. (Compare especially Gavin Milroy and Greenhow.) The favourite 
belief that these diseases are caused by transitions of temperature and ex- 
posure to weather, has been carried too far ; there is evidence to show that 
this cause is subordinate to several others. 

In addition to a general impaired state of health arising, probably, from faulty 
aeration of the blood, and to phthisis and other lung affections which may 
reasonably be believed to have their origin in the constant breathing of air 
vitiated by the organic vapours and particles arising from the person, it has 
long been considered, and apparently quite correctly, that such an atmosphere 
causes a more rapid spread of several specific diseases, especially typhus exan- 
thematicus, plague, smallpox, scarlet fever, and measles. This may arise in 
several ways ; the specific poison may simply accumulate in air so imperfectly 
changed, or it may grow in it (for though there may be an analogical argument 
against such a process, it has never been disproved, and is evidently not im- 
possible) ; or the vitiated atmosphere may simply render the body less resist- 
ing or more predisposed. 

* Statistical Reports on the Health of the Navy, and especially Gavin Milroy 's pamphlet on 
"The Health of the Royal Navy," 1862, pp. 44 and 54. 
t Trans, of the Epidem. Soc., vol. ii. p. 142. 



98 AIR. 

(b.) Air rendered Impure by Exhalations from the Sick,. The air of a sick- 
ward, containing as it does an immense quantity of organic matter, is well 
known to be most injurious. The severity of many diseases is increased, and 
convalescence is greatly prolonged. This appears to hold true of all diseases, 
but especially of the febrile. At a certain point of impurity, erysipelas and 
hospital gangrene appear. The occurrence of either disease is, in fact, a con- 
demnation of the sanitary condition of the ward. It has been asserted that 
hospital gangrene is a precursor of exanthematic typhus, but probably the 
introduction at a particular time of the specific poison of typhus was a mere 
coincidence. But, doubtless, the same foul state of the air which aids the 
spread of the one disease would aid also that of the other. 

When hospital gangrene has appeared, it is sometimes extremely difficult to 
get rid of it. Hammond* states that in a ward of the New York City Hospital, 
where hospital gangrene had appeared, removal of the furniture and patients 
did not prevent fresh patients being attacked. Closing the ward for some time 
and whitewashing had no effect. The plastering was then removed, and fresh 
plaster applied, but still cases recurred. At last the entire walls were taken 
down and rebuilt, and then no more cases occurred. 

It is now Veil known that by the freest ventilation, i.e., by treating men in 
tents or in the open air, hospital gangrene can be entirely avoided, t The oc- 
currence of hospital gangrene in a tent is a matter of the rarest occurrence. 

(c.) Air rendered impure by Combustion. Of the products of combustion 
which pass into the general atmosphere (see page 74), the carbonic acid and 
carbonic oxide are so largely and speedily diluted that it is not likely they 
can have any influence on health. The particles of carbon and tarry matter, 
and the sulphurous acid, must be the active agents if any injury results. It 
has been supposed that molecular carbon and sulphurous acid, instead of being 
injurious, may even be useful as disinfectants, and we might a priori con- 
clude that to a certain extent they must so act, but certainly there is no 
evidence that the smoky air of our cities, or of our colliery districts, is freer 
from the poisons of the specific diseases than the air of other places. It has 
been supposed, indeed, that the air of large cities is particularly antagonistic 
to malaria, but there are probably other causes acting here. The solid 
particles of carbon, and the sulphurous acid gas, may, on the other hand, have 
injurious effects. It is not right to ignore the mechanical effect of the fine 
powder of coal so constantly drawn into the lungs, and even the possibility 
of irritation of the lungs from sulphurous acid. Certain it is, that persons 
with bronchitis and emphysema often feel at once the entrance into the London 
atmosphere, and individual experience will, I believe, lead to the opinion that 
such an atmosphere has some effect in originating attacks of bronchitis, and in 
delaying recovery. But statistical evidence of the effect of smoky town atmo- 
spheres in producing lung affections on a large scale cannot be given, so many 
are the other conditions which complicate the problem. 

The effect of breathing the products of combustion, of gas especially, is 
more easily determined. In proportion to the amount of contamination of 
the air, many persons at once suffer from headache, heaviness, and oppression. 
Bronchitic affections are frequently produced, which are often attributed to 
the change from the hot room to the cold air, but are really probably owing 
to the influence of the impure air of the room on the lungs. 

* On Hygiene, p. 172. 

"1* See Chapter on Hospitals, and Professor Jiingken's Address on Pysemia in the Sydenham 
Society's Year-Book for 1862, p. 213. and Report on Hygiene by the Author, in the Army 
Medical Report for 1862 (vol. iv.) 




I 



EFFECTS OF IMPURE AIR. 99 

The effects of constantly inhaling the products of gas combustion may be 
seen in the case of workmen whose shops are dark, and who are compelled to 
bum gas during a large part of the day; the pallor, or even anaemia and 
general want of tone which such men show, is owing to the constant inhala- 
tion of an atmosphere so impure. 

(d.) Air Rendered Impure by Sewage Gas. Cases of asphyxia from sul- 
phuretted hydrogen, sulphide of ammonium, carbonic acid, and nitrogen (or 
possibly rapid poisoning from organic vapours), occasionally occur both in 
sewers and from the opening of old cesspools. In a case at Clapham, the 
clearing out a privy produced in twenty-three children violent vomiting and 
purging, headache, and great prostration, and convulsive twitchings of the 
muscles. Two died in 'twenty-four hours. (" Health of Towns Eeport," vol. 
i. p. 139.) 

If such cases as these are put aside, and we demand what is the condition of 
health of those who work in non-infected sewers, to use Parent-Duchatelet's 
expression, we find some difference of opinion. Thackrah states* that sewer- 
men are not subject to any disease (apart from asphyxia), and are not 
short-lived. He cites no evidence. Parent-Duchatelett came on the whole 
to the same conclusion as regards the sewer-men of Paris in 1836. He says 
that there are some men so affected by the air of sewers that they can never 
work in them ; but those who can remain suffer only from a little ophthalmia, 
lumbago, and perhaps sciatica. They consider otherwise their occupation not 
only innocent but as favourable to health. The only fact adverse to this 
seemed to be that the air of the sewer greatly aggravated the venereal disease, 
and those who persisted in working with this disease on them inevitably 
perished (p. 256). The working in deep, old sewage matter produced an 
eruption on the parts bathed by the mud, which resembled itch sometimes, or 
was phlyctenoid in character. 

When Parent-Duchatelet's facts are subjected to analysis, the case is not, 
however, so clear as would appear from his statement. At one place he speaks 
of 24 men being the number of sewer-men, at another of 32- either number 
being too small for safe conclusions. He also gives a list (t. i. p. 386) of the 
32 men, from which it appears that there were no less than 20 men who had 
only been employed six months in the sewers, and seven others who had only 
been there a year ; two others had been less than sixteen months, and only 
three were over two years (viz., fifteen years and six years respectively). So 
that the extremely short period of time seems quite to vitiate any conclusions. 
But it appears also that a very considerable effect was produced on a large 
number of these men, as, besides ophthalmia, from which no less than 25 of 
them had suffered, and several three and four times, 10 of the 20 men who 
had been employed less than six months had suffered from bilious and cere- 
bral affections, diarrhoea, colics, jaundice, lumbar pains, and, in one case, bilious 
and cerebral fever. Of the seven men who had been employed less than one 
year, no less than three had suffered from colics and diarrhoea, and two from 
rheumatism. So that all the facts show that this celebrated evidence of 
Parent-Duchatelet, which has been so often quoted to- prove the innocuous- 
ness of sewer air, has been completely misunderstood, and that it rather proves 
the hurtfulness than otherwise. The principal affections seem to have been 
ophthalmia, bilious affections, diarrhoea, and colics. The exact amount of 
sickness per annum, the rate of mortality, and the expectation of life, have not 
been determined by any observer. 

* The Effects of Arts, Trades, and Professions on Health, 183'2, p. 118. 
t Hygiene Publique, vol. i. p. 247 (1836). 

G 2 



100 AIR. 

It must be remembered also that sewer air is of no invariable composition, 
that often, with good ventilation, it is tolerably pure, and that, in many cases, 
the inhabitants of houses over sewers really receive more sewer air than those 
who penetrate into the sewers themselves. The workmen also take great pre- 
cautions, both in London and Paris, and, in both cases, the sewage matter is 
mixed with a very large quantity of water, which has a great effect in holding 
back deleterious products. Occasionally, men have breathed the air issuing 
from a drain, and have suffered from it most unequivocally. Dr Clouston* 
records a good case of this kind. After inhaling the gas, the man felt ill, 
languid, and had no appetite for four days, and was then attacked with a violent 
colic, vomiting, purging, and great prostration. 

Dr Herbert Barkert has attempted to submit this question to experiment 
by conducting the air of a cesspool into a box where animals were confined. 
The analysis of the air showed the presence, of carbonic acid, sulphuretted 
hydrogen, and sulphide of ammonium. The reaction of the gas was usually 
neutral, sometimes alkaline. The gas was sometimes offensive, so that organic 
vapours were probably present, but no analysis appears to have been made on 
this point. Three dogs and a mouse were experimented on ; the latter was 
let down over the cesspool, and died on the fifth day. The three dogs were 
confined in the box ; they all suffered from vomiting, purging, and a febrile 
condition, which, Dr Barker says, " resembled the milder forms of continued 
fever common to the dirty and ill- ventilated homes of the lower classes of the 
community." But the effects required some time, and much gas for their 
production. Dr Barker attributes the results, not to the organic matter, but 
to the mixture of the three gases, carbonic acid, sulphuretted hydrogen, and 
sulphide of ammonium, and especially to the latter two. 

With respect to the special production of typhoid fever among sewer-men, 
Parent-Duchatelet refers only to three cases of cerebral and bilious affection, 
which may have been typhoid ; there is, however, no certainty. He does not 
state whether any of the men had been protected by previous attacks, and 
the large number of men who had been but a short time in the sewers would 
render this inquiry of little value. 

Dr Guy, from an inquiry in London, J believed that these men were not 
more subject to fevers than other workmen, but, as Dr Murchison has pointed 
out, Guy's conclusions are questionable, especially from the distinction of 
typhus and typhoid fevers not being drawn, and from the mixing up scaven- 
gers and dust-men with sewer-men. 

Murchison and Peacock have both observed sewer-men to be more subject 
to those diseases. Murchison thinks that constant exposure to sewage air 
gives immunity, but possibly previous attacks (which are not necessarily 
severe) may often give protection. 

Nightmen, and the collectors and sorters of dust, do not appear, according 
to Dr Guy, to be subject to any special disease or ill-health. 

(e.) Effect of Sewer Air on the General Population. The effect of sewer 
air on the general population is another question. In many towns there is a 
constant escape of sewage air into the houses ; the drains open at the base- 
ment, are insufficiently trapped, and currents of air force the gas into the 
house, or the artificial warming of the house continually draws up the air 
from the sewers. In London, Dr Sanderson has shown, by his ingenious 
manometer, that the tension of the air in the sewers is always greater than 

* Medical Times and Gazette, June 1865. 

t On Malaria and Miasmata, by T. H. Barker, M.D., 1863, p. 176, et sec/. 

J Journal of the Statistical Society, 1848, vol. xi. On Fevers, p. 453. 



EFFECTS OF IMPURE AIR. 101 

that of the house air, and, consequently, that there is a constant 'danger of 
sewer air entering our dwellings. 

That* the breathing such an atmosphere has an immense effect on health is 
a matter of such daily observation that, I presume, it will not be denied. 
Every one must have seen instances in which headache, sickness, diarrhoea, 
general malaise, and, after a certain time, great depression of health, with 
more or less anaemia, were produced.* In some cases I have known decided 
febrile attacks lasting three or four days, and attended with great headache 
and anorexia. In some cases, houses into which there has been a continued 
escape of sewer air have been so notoriously unhealthy, that no persons 
would live in them, and this has not been only from the prevalence of fever, 
but from other diseases. Dr Marston, K.A., in his excellent paper on the 
-Fever of Malta,t tells us that when typhoid fever broke out at the Fort of 
Lascaris, from the opening of a drain, other affections were simultaneously 
developed, viz., " diarrhoea, dysentery, slight pyrexial disorders, and diseases of 
the primary assimilative organs." A close examination and analysis of the 
affections produced by the inhalation of sewer air, would probably much 
enlarge this list ; and the class of affections resulting from this cause, to which 
it may be difficult to assign a nosological name, will be found, I believe, to be 
essentially connected with derangement of the digestive rather than with the 
pulmonary system. 

Is typhoid fever produced by the emanations arising from faecal decom- 
position ? 

This great question is almost too large for the limits of this book, and yet 
it is too important to be briefly dismissed. The main facts which we may, I 
believe, legitimately draw from, the long discussion which has taken place are 
these : 

1. There are several cases on record in which typhoid fever has constantly 
prevailed in houses exposed to sewage emanations, either from bad sewers, or 
from want of them, and in which proper sewerage has completely removed 
the fever.:}; 

2. There are several cases on record (Croydon, Peckham, Westminster, 
Fleet Lane, Hammersmith, Malta) in which the opening of a drain (in some 
cases an old one) has given rise to decided typhoid fever, as well as to an ex- 
tremely severe and rapidly fatal disease (probably severe typhoid), in which 
coma is a marked, symptom. (Murchison, p. 438.) And there are other 
cases (Windsor) in which typhoid fever was manifestly caused by ill- venti- 
lated and ill-contrived sewers permitting a large reflux of air into the houses. 

3. Whenever statistics are accurately carried on, the prevalence of typhoid 
fever is always found to be in a close relation to the imperfect manner in 

* It is impossible to quote the numeroxis instances which have been recorded. Many are 
given in the Health of Towns Reports. (See Evidence of Rigby, vol. i. p. 121 ; Aldis, vol. i. p. 
115). 

t Army Medical Report for 1861, p. 486. 

J Whoever will take the trouble to read the Health of Towns Reports and Evidence, Mr 
Simon's Reports, Dr Letheby's Reports, Dr Acland's Report on Fevers in Agricultural Districts, 
and the Reports of the Medical Officer to the Privy Council, will find abundant evidence in 
support of this assertion. Many provincial towns in England could give similar evidence, as 
Norwich. (See Dr Richardson's Report, Medical Times and Gazette, Jan. 1864.) The case of 
Calstock in Devonshire may be also noted It used to be always liable to outbreak of typhoid 
fever, but after the drainage of the place the fever disappeared. (Bristowe in Trans, of Epid. 
Soc. vol. i. p. 396.) 

For many instances, see Murchison on Fevers, p. 436, et seq. The Hammersmith case is 
one mentioned by Babington (British Medical Journal, May 3, 1862). The case at Malta is 
mentioned by Marston (Army Medical Report for 1861, p. 486). I have been informed of a 
similar case ; and it was also affirmed that the evacuations of some patients with typhoid fever 
had been received two years before into this drain. 



102 AIR. 

which sewage matters are removed. The army statistics of home and foreign 
stations give us excellent examples of this, and year by year, as diagnosis is 
becoming more certain, this fact is coming out more and more clearly. 

These three classes of facts are so undoubted, and so numerous, as to show 
that the connection between typhoid fever and faecal emanations is too inti- 
mate to be accidental. 'But, 

4. There are cases on record in which fecal accumulation and decomposition 
has been going on about habitations for years without producing fever. Cer- 
tainly many of these cases are in small villages and isolated houses, where 
there are currents of air to carry off the effluvia, and not in close towns and 
alleys. The difference may, then, be merely one of ease of oxidation and dis- 
persion. In some of these instances again, and especially in the case of foreign 
towns, fever may really greatly prevail, though casual observers do not recog- 
nise it ; it may affect the children under the form of the so-called infantile 
remittent fever, and in this way preserve them from subsequent attacks. 
Strangers suffer in such towns, but apparently not the inhabitants. A closer 
examination may, perhaps, detect the reason of this to be the protective influ- 
ence of prior attacks.* In other cases, again, the fever really prevails among 
adults, but is not recognised, t How constantly it used to be said that typhoid 
fever prevailed in neither the East nor the West Indies. It really prevails in 
one, and probably in both, and doubtless has always been present, but was 
confounded with other diseases. Still, will these explanations account for 
alf cases ? A village is known to me in which no typhoid fever had ever been 
known ; the drainage arrangements were, as usual in our English villages, very 
bad. About twelve years ago typhoid fever commenced to prevail, and spread 
completely through the village, attacking old and young, so completely unpro- 
tected were all the inhabitants. Importation could not be traced, but it is not 
certain it did not occur. Now here, as in the cases of Calstock and Over 
Darwen, recorded by Bristow and Greenhow, j either the accumulation of, and 
emanations from, sewage must reach a certain point, or there must be some 
special superadded meteorological conditions, such as excessive heat, drought, 
&c., or there must be entrance of a fresh agent. 

5. There are cases in which, in such local outbreaks, no introduction of a 
fresh agent can be traced. But then it is notoriously difficult to prove a 
negative, and these specific poisons pass from place to place in such secret ways 
that it is almost impossible to trace them. A great number of negative in- 
stances must be brought together before much reliance can be placed on this 
argument. 

6. There are cases on record (the outbreak at Steyning, recorded by Whitley, 
is one of the best) in which all the conditions of typhoid fever from accumu- 
lated sewage are present for years, and yet no fever is caused. Then, a 
patient arrives from a distance with typhoid fever, and the disease spreads 
more or less through the village, and, spreading evidently from this case, is 
disseminated as evidently by the faecal emanations. Now, such cases as these 
support very strongly Dr William Budd's view, that the specific poison must 
be introduced, and that it is conveyed in the stools, and, as a matter of course, 
propagated through the sewers, if these exist. 

* There seems little doubt that one attack of typhoid usually protects from another. Is this 
owing to" the destruction of Peyer's patches ; and is the fever really caused by the absorption of 
the products of these glands, when disintegrating from the effects of a poison locally applied to 
them ? The transmission of the disease by water gives some countenance to this. 

f This is the case still in London ; there is reason to think that many cases of typhoid occur 
in private practice which are not diagnosed. 

J Fourth Report of the Medical Ofiicer to the Privy Council. 

Ibid. p. 43. 



EFFECTS OF IMPURE AIK. 103 

7. There are cases in which typhoid fever occurs when no exposure to sew- 
age emanations can be traced. But these instances are always isolated ; and it 
I is well known that, in such cases, it is not to be expected we shall always be 
able to point out the exact place and time of exposure. A man may be ex- 
posed to a vitiated atmosphere without even knowing it himself, and even the 
time and place of exposure to the most undoubted contagions (as smallpox) 
cannot always be traced. 

The general conclusion seems to me to be this. The view which meets best 
all the facts is that sewage air, per se, does not produce the specific lesion of 
Peyer's patches, which is the anatomical sign of typhoid fever, but that sewers 
afford the channels of propagation when the specific poison of typhoid, derived 
from the stools, finds its way into them. At the same time, it must be con- 
fessed that this conclusion is not based on such complete evidence as should 
alone content us, and that the spontaneous origin of true typhoid fever from 
simple sewage matter is neither completely disproved, nor is evidence wanting 
which seems to indicate such an origin. That the effluvia from the typhoid 
stools will produce typhoid fever seems to be certain, and a good case is given 
by Eiecke. The evacuations of a typhoid patient were placed ih an outhouse, 
the upper room of which had an unceiled floor. Two men who had no inter- 
course whatever with the patient, and never entered the house, but who slept 
in the upper room, were attacked, and at the same time. 

With regard to the production of diarrhoea from faecal emanations, it would 
seem that the autumnal diarrhoea of this country is intimately connected with 
temperature,* and usually commences when the thermometer is persistently 
above 60, and when there is, at the time, a scarcity of rain-fall. It is worst in 
the badly sewered districts, and is least in well-drained districts, and in wet 
years. It has been checked in London by a heavy fall of rain. All those 
points seem to connect it with fsecal emanations reaching a certain rapidity 
of evolution in consequence of high temperature, deficient rain, and perhaps 
relative dryness of the atmosphere. At the same time, there is some con- 
nection between this disease and impure water. It may own a double origin, 
and in a dry season both causes may be in operation. 

To sum up, the diseases produced by faecal emanations on the general popu- 
lation seem to be, diarrhoea, bilious disorders, often with febrile symptoms ; 
dyspepsia, general malaise, and anaemia ; all these being affections of digestion 
or sanguification ; typhoid fever is also intimately connected with sewage 
emanations, either being their direct result, or, more probably, being caused 
by specific products mixed with the sewage. 

In addition, sewer air aggravates most decidedly the severity of all the 
exanthemata, erysipelas, hospital gangrene, and puerperal fever (Eigby), and 
probably has an injurious effect in all other cases. 

(/.) Emanations from Fo&cal Matter tliroivn on the Ground. Owing, 
doubtless, to the rapid movement of the air, there is no doubt that the excreta 
of men and animals thrown on the ground and exposed to the open air are 
less hurtful than sewer air, and probably in proportion to the dilution. 

When there are accumulations in close courts, small back-yards, &c., the 
same effects are produced as by sewer air, and many instances are recorded in 
the Health of Towns Eeports. When fsecal matters are used for manure, 
and are therefore speedily mixed with earth, they seldom produce bad 
effects. Owing, doubtless, to the great deodorising absorbing powers of earth, 
effluvia soon cease to be given off. An instance is, however, on record,t 

* Ransome and Vernon, " Influence of Atmosph. Changes on Dis." p. 3. 
t Whitby, "Med. Times and Gazette," Jan. 1862. 



104 AIR. 

in which two cases of typhoid were supposed to arise from the manuring of 
an adjacent field. Dr Clouston* has also shown by evidence which seems 
very strong, that dysentery was produced in an asylum by the exhalations 
from sewage, which was spread over the ground (a stiff brick clay subsoil) 
about 300 yards from the asylum. The case seems a very convincing one, 
as the possibility of the action of other causes (impure water, bad food, &c.) 
was excluded. This is a point on which more evidence is desirable. It is 
stated in some works that disease is frequently produced by the manuring of 
the ground, but I have been able to find no satisfactory evidence. 

(g.) Emanations from Streams Polluted by Fcecal Matter. The evidence 
on this point is contradictory. Parent-Duehatelet, in 1822,t investigated the 
effect produced on the health of the inhabitants of the Faubourg St Marceau, 
in Paris, by the almost insupportable effluvia arising from the Riviere de 
Bievre, which received a large portion of the sewage of the quarter. He 
asserts that the health was not at all damaged, though he admits that there is 
truth in the old tradition at the Hotel Dieu, that the cases from St Marceau 
were more severe than from any other place. 

Dr M'William found that the emanations from the Thames in 1859-60 had 
no deleterious effect on the health of the Custom-House men employed on 
the river. The amount of diarrhoea was even below the average. 

Mr Eawlinson states (Eeport of Committee on Sewage, 1864, p. 174, Ques- 
tion 3997) that a careful house to house visitation had been made in some 
of the worst districts of Lancashire (in Manchester on the banks of the Med- 
lock for instance) without finding any great excess of disease. 

On the other hand, in the reports of Sir H. De la Beche and Dr Lyon Play- 
fair, $ is some strong evidence that the general health of the people suffered 
from the emanations of the putrid streams of the Frome, and the tributaries 
of the Irk and Medlock ; that they were pale, in many cases dyspeptic ; that 
fevers (typhoid) prevailed on the banks is asserted by some observers, but 
rather doubted by others ; but none seem to have any doubt that the fevers, 
when they occurred, were much worse. Cholera in Manchester was severe 
along the banks of some of these streams, but that might have been from the 
water being drunk. In 1858 also, Dr Ord observed that a large number of 
men employed on the Thames were affected by the effluvia ; the symptoms 
being languor and depression, followed by nausea and headache, aching of the 
eyeballs, and redness and swelling of the throat. Diarrhoea was rare. In 
1859 these symptoms were not observed, though the state of the river was 
worse. Were they then really caused by the effluvia in 1858 ? 

It is very likely that the discrepancy of evidence may arise from the amount 
of water which dilutes the faecal matter being much greater in some cases 
than others. In the case of the Thames, the dilution was after all very great, 
and this was the case, in part at any rate, in the Bievre, as the stream was in 
some places 6 and 7 feet deep. The evaporation from such a body of water, 
however offensive it may be, must be a very different thing from the effluvia 
coming off from the masses of organic matter laid bare by the almost 

* Medical Times and Gazette, June 1865. t Hygiene Publique, t. i. p. 98. 

* Second Report of the Health of Towns Commission, pp. 261 and 347. Lyon Playfair says, 
" The medical men in Manchester whom I have consulted are unanimously of opinion that the 
emanations from the putrid streams which wind their way sluggishly through the town are a 
cause of disease and mortality." On the other hand, Whitehead (Rate of Mortality in Man- 
chester, 3d edit. 1864, p. 50) denies that typhus (typhoid?) is more prevalent near the banks of 
these streams, and also denies (p. 52) that health is injuriously affected. Mr Rawlinson also 
(Report of Sewage Committee, 1864, p. 174, Question 3997) states that no great excess of disease 
from exhalations was found to exist on the banks of the Medlock. 

Trans. Social Science Association, 1859, p. 571. 



EFFECTS OF IMPURE AIR. 105 

complete drying up of streams into which quantities of fajcal matter are 
poured. 

(ft.) Effect of Manure Manufactories. The manure manufactories at 
present existing in this country do not appear to produce any bad effects. 
They are generally at some little distance from towns and the effluvia are soon 
diluted. But if situated in towns they are nuisances, and may be hurtful. 
In 1847 evidence was given to show that a manure manufactory situated in 
Spitalfields, and about 100 feet from the workhouse, caused bad diarrhoea 
whenever the wind blew in that direction, and 12 cases of " spontaneous 
gangrene "(!) which had appeared among children were attributed to it. The 
cases of disease in the workhouse infirmary also acquired, it was said, a malig- 
nant and intractable character.* In France the workmen engaged in the 
making of " Poudrette " do not in any way suffer, except from slight ophthal- 
mia, t Parent-Duchatelet;}; (on very slight evidence indeed) thought the ema- 
nations were even beneficial in some diseases, and Tardieu seems inclined to 
support this opinion. When the poudrette is decomposing, and large quanti- 
ties are brought into small spaces, as on board ship, serious consequences may 
result. Parent-Duchatelet records two cases of outbreaks on board ships carrying 
poudrette which fermented on the voyage ; one vessel, the Arthur, lost half 
her crew (number not known), and the rest were in a state of deplorable 
health ; the men who unloaded the cargo were also affected. The symptoms 
are not recorded, but, in a smaller vessel, where all on board (5) were similarly 
affected, the disease put on the appearance of "an adynamic fever." There 
was intense pain of the head and of all the limbs, vomiting, great prostration, 
and in two cases great diarrhoea. These symptoms are very similar to those 
already mentioned as produced in the children at Clapham by the opening of 
a privy. 

(i.) The Air of Grave-yards. There is some evidence that the disturbance 
of even ancient places of sepulture may give rise to disease. Vicq d'Azyr 
refers to an epidemic in Auvergne caused by the opening of an old cemetery ; 
the removal of the old burial-place of a convent in Paris produced illness in 
the inhabitants of the adjoining houses. In India, the cantonment at Suk- 
kur was placed on an ancient Mussulman burial ground, and the station was 
most unhealthy, 1 1 especially from fevers. 

The effect of effluvia from comparatively recent putrefying human bodies 
has been observed by many writers. KammazzinilT states that sextons entering 
places where there are putrefying corpses are subject to malignant fevers, 
asphyxia, and suffocative catarrhs ; and Foucroy remarks that there are a 
thousand instances of the pernieious effects of cadaveric exhalations ; and 
Tardieu** has collected a very considerable number of cases, not only of 
asphyxia, but of several febrile affections produced by exhumations and dis- 
turbance of bodies. Mr Chadwick, ft and the General Board of Health, |J have 
also summed up the recent evidence, which shows that in churchyards thickly 
crowded with dead, gases are given off (see page 79), which, if not productive 
of any specific disease, yet increase the amount both of sickness and mortality. 

* " Medical G-izette," December 1847. 

f Parent-Duchatelet ; Patissier. See also Tardieu, "Diet. d'Hygiene," t. iv. p. 453. Tardieu, 
in 1862, writes, " We do not hesitate to affirm that the exhalations from these manufactories 
(voiries) exercise no injurious action either on man or vegetation." But it must be remembered 
that these places are excellently conducted ; ventilation is good, and the faecal matter is soon 



subjected to processes which prevent its decomposition. 
J Hyg. Publique, t. ii. p. 276. 



Tardieu, " Diet. d'Hygiene," i. p. 517. 

| Norman Chevers, p. 404. ^[ Maladies des Artizans, p. 71. 

** Diet. d'Hygiene, 1862, t. iii. p. 463, el seq. ft Report on Interments in Towns. 
\\ Report on Extramural Sepulture, 1850. 



106 AIR. 

In some instances, this may be from contamination of the drinking water ; 
but in other cases, as in the houses bordering the old city grave-yards, where 
the water was supplied by public companies, the air also must have been in 
fault. In the houses which closely bordered the old city yards, which were 
crowded with bodies, cholera was very fatal in 1849,* and I was informed by 
some practitioners that no cases recovered. I was also informed that all other 
diseases in these localities assumed a very violent and unfavourable type. 

(k.) Effluvia from Decomposing Animals. On this point there is some dis- 
crepancy of evidence. 

In 1810, Deyeux, Parmentier, and Pariset, gave evidence to show that the 
workmen in knackeries are in no way injured. Parent-Duchatelet, from his 
examination of the health of the men employed at the knackery and slaughter- 
house at Montfauon, came also to the conclusion that their health was not 
affected. It should be mentioned that this knackery is remarkably well placed 
for ventilation, and is excellently conducted ; putrid remains, in the proper 
sense of the word, do not now exist in any knackery in or near Paris ; the 
workmen are well paid and well fed, and are therefore prepared to bear the 
effect of any injurious effluvia. It has been stated, however, that in the 
Hotel Dieu, the patients used to suffer when the wind loaded with effluvia 
blew from Montfauon (Henry Bennet). Tardieu, from a late re-examination 
of the question, confirms Parent's conclusions, t except as regards glanders 
and malignant pustule, touching which Parent-Duchatelet's evidence was as 
usual negative. Tardieu (t. iv. p. 468), however, states that many examples 
occur in the French knackeries of the transmission of these diseases, though 
glanders and farcy are less frequently caught in knackeries than in stables. 
No analysis has yet been made of the air of knackeries. 

Parent-Duchatelet]: is often also quoted, as having proved that the exposure 
of the remains of 4000 horses, killed in the battle of Paris in 1814, pro- 
duced no bad effects. These horses were killed on the 30th March, and were 
burnt on the 10th and 12th April. They gave out " une odeur infecte," which 
produced no bad results on those who collected the bodies. Parent-Duchatelet 
inquired particularly, whether typhus was produced by the effluvium, and 
proved that it was not ; a conclusion conformable to our present doctrine. 
He did not, however, do more than examine the registers of deaths for the 
three years before, during, and after the battle, and found no evidence of in- 
creased mortality. The utmost this observation shows is, that no typhus was 
produced; and that the amount of decomposition, caused by eleven days of hot 
weather, did not affect those concerned in collecting and burning the bodies. 

On the other hand, the experience of many campaigns, where soldiers have 
been exposed to the products of an advanced putrefaction of horses, shows 
that there is a decided influence on health. Pringle especially noticed this ; 
and in many subsequent campaigns this condition has been one of the causes 
of insalubrity. Diarrhoea and dysentery are the principal diseases ; but all 
affections are increased in severity. At the siege of Sebastopol, where, in 
the French camp, a great number of bodies of horses lay putrefying on the 
ground, Reynal describes the effect as most disastrous ; and even conjectures 
that the spread of typhus was connected with this condition. 

(Z.) Air of Brickfields and Cement Works. The peculiar smell of brick- 
fields cannot be owing to carbonic acid, oxide, or to hydrosulphuric acid, or 



* S. Smith, and Sutherland's Report on Extramural Interment, p. 12. See also Sutherland's 
Report on Cholera, 1850, p. 27. 

f Diet. d'Hygiene, t. iv. p. 468. J Ibid. t. i. p. 47. 

Vernois, Hygiene Industrielle, t. ii. p. 60. 



EFFECTS OF 1MPUKE AIR. 107 

sulphurous acid (the gases evolved from the kilns) ; but its exact cause, I 
believe, is not known. The air, at its exit from the chimney of furnaces and 
kilns, is rapidly fatal ; but so rapid is its ascension, dilution, and diffusion, 
that at a little distance it is respirable. I am not aware that, in any of the 
actions against the owners of brickfields, anything more than a nuisance has 
been established. The smoke and gases from cement works, however, destroy 
neighbouring vegetation. The smell can be perceived for several hundred 
yards. In the north of France, it is ordered that no kilns shall be within 50 
metres (54J yards) of a public road; and the kilns are lighted only at night. 

(ra.) Air of Tallow-makers, Bone-burners, fyc. In many trades of this 
kind large quantities of very disagreeable animal vapours are produced, which 
spread for a long distance, and are most disagreeable. Although a nuisance, 
it is difficult to bring forward positive evidence of insalubrity. But the 
odour is so bad, that in France rules are in force to oblige the vapours to be 
condensed or consumed* and if in the process any water is contaminated 
with fatty acids, it is neutralised with lime. M. Foucon has figured an appa- 
ratus which completely burns the animal vapours, t 

(n.) Air of Marshes. It seems scarcely necessary to allude to this point, 
except to notice that, in addition to paroxysmal fevers, it has been supposed 
that serous diarrhoea (a sort of dysenteria incruenta) and true bloody dysen- 
tery, are produced by malaria. Also that there is perhaps some connection 
with malaria and liver abscess (?). In addition to marked diseases, the 
breathing of marsh air produces an imperfect condition of nutrition, in which 
enlarged spleen plays a prominent part, and the mean duration of life is 
shortened. 

(o.) Unknown conditions of the Atmosphere. Occasionally, outbreaks of 
disease occur from impurities of the atmosphere, the nature of which is not 
known ; though the causes giving rise to them may be obvious. Dr MajerJ 
records a case of a school at Ulma, of sixty or seventy boys, where the greater 
number were suddenly affected, on a warm day in May, with similar symptoms 
giddiness, headache, nausea, shivering, trembling of the limbs, sometimes 
fainting. The attack occurred again the next day, and a common cause was 
certain. The room was enclosed by walls, in a narrow space, where the snow 
had lain all the winter ; the wall was covered with fungous vegetation, and 
with salts from the mortar. From the sudden entrance of warm weather, fer- 
mentation had set in, and a strong marshy smell was produced ; the substances 
of whatever kind generated in this way accumulated in the narrow, ill- ventilated 
space. Removal to a healthier locality at once cured the disease. 

* Tardieu, Diet. d'Hygiene, t. xi. p. 221. 

t Pappenheim's Beit, der Sanitat. Pol. Heft ii. } Canstatt's Jahresb. 1862, vol. ii. p. 32. 



CHAPTER ill. 
VENTILATION.* 

VENTILATION OF BUILDINGS. 

IN order to keep air in its necessary purity, it must be continually changing. 
In the previous chapter we have seen that the change must amount to at 
least 2000 cubic feet per hour per head for persons in health, and not less 
than 3000 or 4000 cubic feet or more for sick persons. Less than this will 
not suffice to keep the air pure, and even this amount is quite the minimum 
which must be given. 

In whatever way this air is supplied, certain conditions must be laid down. 

The entering Air. 1. The air which enters must itself be pure. It must be 
warmed if too cold, and cooled if too warm. 

g 2. Its movement should be imperceptible, otherwise it will cause the sen- 
sation of draught, and will chill. The rate at which the movement becomes 
imperceptible is much influenced by the temperature of the air ; if this is 
about 70, a very considerable velocity is not perceived. But taking the 
temperature of 55 or 60, a rate of 1^- feet per second ( = 1 mile per hour 
nearly) is not perceived; a rate of 2 and 2^ feet per second (1*4 and 1*7 
miles per hour), is imperceptible to some persons ; 3 feet per second (2 miles 
per hour nearly) is perceptible to most ; a rate of 3 J feet is perceived by 
all persons ; any greater speed than this will give the sensation of draught, 
especially if the entering air be of a different temperature, or moist, t 

3. It must be well diffused all through the room, so that in every part 
movement shall be going on ; in other words, the distribution must be 
perfect. 

The outgoing Air. 4. The air must be removed so immediately that there 
shall be no risk of a person breathing again his own expired air, or that of 
another person. 

5. In hospitals especially, it is desirable that there shall be no chance 
of the air from one sick person passing over the bed of another. Therefore, 
the movement of air should be rather vertical than horizontal, and as the 
expired air, and all exhalations from the body or bed clothes, at first pass up- 
wards from their levity, it is desirable that they should be discharged above, 



* The following are some useful measures : 

1 cubic foot, . . = 1728 cubic inches. 

= 28-31 French litres. 

35-31658 cubic feet (English). 



1 cubic metre (French), 
1 litre (French), . 
1 litre, 
1 cubic centimetre, 



0-03531 6 cubic feet. 
61 -027 cubic inches. 
0-06103 cubic inches. 



t In Pettenkofer's closed room, which contains 423'7 cubic feet, it has been found that 44 
cubic feet can be admitted per minute without draught, or, in other words, the air can be. 
completely changed in ten minutes without the inmates perceiving it. 



VENTILATION. 109 

and not drawn down again past the patient. During the last few years it 
lias been argued that it is better that the foul air should pass off below the 
level of the person, so that the products of respiration will be immediately 
drawn down below the mouth, and be replaced by descending pure air. But 
the resistance to be overcome in drawing down the hot air of respiration is so 
great that there is a considerable waste of power, and the obstacle to the dis- 
charge is sometimes sufficient, if the extracting force be at all lessened, to 
reverse the movement, and the fresh air forces its way in through the pipes 
intended for discharge ; a fact which has been noticed in the Hospital Lari- 
boisiere on some occasions. This plan, in fact, must be considered a mistake. 
The true principle here is that stated long ago by D'Arcet. In the case of 
vapours or gases the proper place of discharge is above ; but heavy powders, 
arising in certain arts or trades, and which from their weight rapidly fall, are 
best drawn out from below. 

Means by which Air is set in Motion. These are : ls, The forces con- 
tinually acting in nature, and which produce what has been termed natural 
ventilation. 2d, The forces set in action by man, and which produce the so- 
called artificial ventilation. 

The division is convenient, but not strictly logical, as the forces which act 
in natural do so also in artificial ventilation to a certain extent. 



SECTION I. 
NATURAL VENTILATION GENERAL STATEMENTS. 

Three forces act in natural ventilation, viz., diffusion, winds, and the differ- 
ence in weight of masses of air of unequal temperature. 

SUB-SECTION I. DIFFUSION. 

As every gas diffuses at a certain rate, viz., inversely as the square root of 
its density, there is a constant escape of any foreign gas into the atmosphere 
at large. From every room that is not air-tight Pettenkofer and Roscoe have 
shown that diffusion occurs through brick, and Pettenkofer believes that one 
of the evils of a newly built and damp house is that diffusion cannot occur 
through its walls. But the ordinary plastered and papered walls reduce dif- 
fusion to a most insignificant amount. Through chinks and openings pro- 
duced by imperfect carpentry the air diffuses fast, and Roscoe found that 
when he evolved carbonic acid in a room the amount had decreased one- 
half from that cause in 90 minutes. 

The amount of purification produced by diffusion under ordinary circum- 
stances is shown by observation to be insufficient, and, in addition, organic sub- 
stances, which are not gaseous, but molecular, are not affected by it. As a 
general ventilating power it is therefore inadequate. 

SUB-SECTION II. THE ACTION OF THE WINDS. 

The wind acts as a powerful ventilating agent, and in various ways. If it 
can pass freely through a room, with open doors and windows, the effect it 
produces is immense. For example, air moving only at the rate of 2 miles an 
hour (which is almost imperceptible), and allowed to pass freely through a 
room 20 feet wide, will change the air of the room 528 times in one hour. 
No such powerful action as this can be obtained in any other way. 

The wind will pass through walls of wood (single-cased), and even of single 



110 AIR. 

porous bricks, when it attains a certain velocity, and perhaps this will account 
for the fact, that such houses, though cold, are healthy habitations. Plaster, 
however, appears to arrest wind at any velocity, if it be true, as stated, that 
in the interior of some thick walls, after many years, lime has been found still 
caustic. And the resistance of a certain amount of brick or porous stone is 
so great, that none, or a very small amount of air will pass through. 
There are two objections to winds as ventilating agents by perflation. 

1. The air may be stagnant. In this country, and, indeed, in most coun- 
tries, complete quiescence of the air for more than a few hours is scarcely 
known. Air is called " still" when it is really moving 1 or 1^ miles an hour. 
The average annual movement of the air in this country is from 6 to 8 miles 
per hour, but it varies of course greatly from day to day. It is between 5 and 
6 miles in Northern Germany. 

2. A much more serious evil is the uncertainty of the movement, and the 
difficulty of regulation. When the velocity reaches 5 or 6 feet per second, 
unless the air be warm, no one will bear it. The wind is therefore excluded, 
or, if allowed to enter directly through small openings, is badly distributed. 
Passing in with a great velocity, it forces its way like a foreign body through 
the air in the room, causing draughts, and escaping, it may be, by some 
opening without proper mixing. I have measured a current entering in this 
way for many feet. In spite of this inconvenience, there can be no doubt 
that in every case, when it can be done, a thorough cross-ventilation by 
opposite windows should be provided, so that advantage may be taken of this 
vast ventilating power. In other cases, the wind can be allowed to blow 
down a tube, and this is especially calculated for certain special cases hereafter 
mentioned. 

But the wind acts in another way. A moving body of air sets in motion all 
air in its vicinity. It drives air before it, and, at the same time, causes a partial 
vacuum on either side of its own path, towards which all the air in the vicinity 
flows at angles more or less approaching right angles. In this way, a small 
current moving at a high velocity will set in motion a large body of air. 

This may be tested at once by placing a small card on one side of a candle, 
and blowing strongly along the side away from the candle. The flame will 
then bend in towards the card. Or, by arranging a Woolf 's bottle with open 
tubes of unequal length, and by blowing along the top of one or other tube, the 
air may be made to pass up or down either, at pleasure. 

The wind, therefore, blowing over the tops of chimneys causes a current at 
right angles to itself up the chimney, and the unequal draught in furnaces is 
owing, in part, to the variation in the velocity of the wind. Advantage, there- 
fore, can be taken of this aspirating power of the wind to cause a movement 
of air up a tube. And in this way the wind may be made to do excellent service 
in ventilation. 

The wind, however, may impede ventilation by obstructing the exit of air 
from any particular opening, or by blowing down a chimney or tube. This 
is, in fact, one reason of the failure of so many systems of ventilation ; they 
may work well in a still atmosphere, but the immense resistance of the wind 
has not been taken into account, and the plan which works beautifully in a 
model fails on the large scale. 

In some systems of ventilation the perflating power of the wind has been 
used as the chief motive agent. In Egypt the wind is allowed to blow in at 
the top of the house through large funnels. This plan has been in use from 
time immemorial. This was the case in Mr Sylvester's plan, which was used 
at Derby and Leicester forty or fifty years ago. A large cowl, turning towards 
the wind, was placed in a convenient spot near the building to be ventilated 



VENTILATION. 



Ill 



a little above the ground if in the country, or at some height if in a town. 
The wind blowing down the cowl passed through an underground channel to 
the basement of the house, and entered a chamber in which was a so-called 
cockle-stove, or calorifere of metal plates, or water or steam pipes, by which 
the air was warmed. It then ascended through tubes into the rooms above, 
and passed out by a tube or tubes in the roof, which were covered by cowls 
turning from the wind. So that the aspiratory power of the air was also used. 
This plan is extremely economical and successful. The movement of air is, 
however, necessarily unequal, and it is difficult to regulate it. It has been 
proposed to place a fan in the tunnel to move the air in periods of calm, and 
the plan then becomes identical in principle, and almost in detail, with the 
method of Van Hecke. 

Mr Ritchie* has employed a similar plan in the ventilation of a dwelling- 
house ; a current of air (of eight square feet in section) was introduced into the 
hall and staircase of the house by air-openings to the prevailing points of the 
wind. The air was warmed in winter to about 70 Fahr. ; every room had a 
longitudinal opening over each door, concealed by the architrave, and regu- 
lated by valves, and through this the warm air from the staircase entered the 
rooms, and then passed up the chimney, and up outlet air-flues placed in the 
walls, commencing at the ceiling, and ending at the wall-heads under the roof. 
The area of the opening into the room was made just equal to the sum of the 
throat of the chimney and the outlet air-flues. 

Dr Arnott ventilated the Field Lane Ragged School on this principle with 
excellent effect, as is shown by the annexed cut. In this case, as in all others, 
the movement is also in part carried 
on by the third cause of motion in 
air, viz., the effect of unequal density 
of masses of air. 

In the ventilation of ships, the 
wind is constantly used ; and by 
wind-sails, and tubes with cowls turn- 
ing towards the wind, air is driven 
between decks and into the hold. 

In using the wind in this way, 
the difficulty is to distribute the air 
so that it shall not cause draughts. 
This is best done by bending the 
tubes at right angles two or three 
times, so as to lessen the velocity, 
by enlarging the channel towards 
the opening in the interior of the 
vessel, and by placing valves to par- 
tially close the tubes, if necessary, 
and by screens of wire-gauze, t 

In all cases in which the air of a room, as in a basement story, or in the 
hold of a ship perhaps, is likely to be colder than the external air, and when 
artificial means of ventilation cannot be employed, the wind should be taken 
advantage of as motive agent. 




Fig. 10. 



* Treatise on Ventilation, by Robert Ritchie, C.E., 1862, p. 89. 

t As the use of perforated zinc plates and of wire-gaze is very common in ventilation, it is 
necessary to bear in mind that these screens very soon get clogged with dirt. In all cases they 
should be so arranged as to be easily inspected and cleaned ; and it should be a matter of routine 
duty to see that they are constantly kept clean. It should also be understood that the amount 
of friction offered by these small openings is exceedingly great. 



112 AIR. 

The aspiratory power of the wind can be secured by covering air-shafts with 
moveable cowls turning from the wind, and special forms of covering here- 
after described, which aid up currents and prevent down draughts. 



SUB-SECTION III. MOVEMENTS PRODUCED BY UNEQUAL WEIGHTS OF AIR. 

The wind itself is caused by this power ; but it is necessary, in discussing 
ventilation, to look upon this as if it were an independent force. If the air 
in a room be heated by fire, or the presence of men or animals, or be made 
moister, it endeavours to expand ; and if there be any means for it to escape, 
a portion of it will do so, and that which remains will be lighter than an 
equal bulk of the colder air outside. The outer air will then rush into the 
room by every orifice, until the equality of weight outside and inside is 
re-established. But as the fresh air which comes in is in its turn heated, the 
movement is kept up in a constant stream, cold air entering by one set of 
orifices, and hot air escaping by another. 

We have now to inquire how the rate of this constant stream of air may be 
calculated.* The mode most generally used is based on two well-known laws : 
first, that the velocity in feet per second of falling bodies is equal to (nearly) 
8 times the square root of the height through which they have fallen ; and, 
second, that fluids pass through an orifice in a partition with a velocity equal 
to that which a body would attain in falling through a height equal to the 
difference in depth of the fluid on the two sides of the partition, t The pres- 
sure of air upon any surface may be represented by the weight of a column of 
air of uniform density of a certain height. Thus the pressure of the atmo- 
sphere at the surface of the earth is 14 Ibs. on the square inch, and this would 
be the weight of a column of air of about 5 miles in height. Air, therefore, 
rushes into a vacuum with a velocity equal to that which a heavy body would 
acquire in falling from a height of 5 miles, viz., 1339 feet per second. But if, 
instead of rushing into a vacuum, it rush into a chamber in which the air has 
less pressure than outside, its velocity will be that due to a height which 
represents the difference of pressure outside and inside. In ordinary cases 
this difference of pressure cannot be obtained by direct observation, but must 
be inferred from the difference of temperature of the outer and inner air. Air 
is dilated one part in 491 of its volume for every degree of Fahrenheit that 
its temperature is raised, consequently the difference of pressure outside and 
inside will be as follows : 

The height from the aperture at which air enters to that from which it 
escapes, multiplied by the difference of temperature outside and inside, and 
divided by 491. 

If the height be 20 feet and the difference of temperature 15 degrees, we 

20 x 15 

have the height to produce velocity of inflowing current = - = - 61 of 

TTt/ L 

a foot, and the velocity =-- 8 V~-QT= 8 x 781 = 6-248. This, however, is the 
theoretical velocity. In practice an allowance must be made for friction of 
J, J, or even J, according to circumstances. The diminution of velocity from 

* Many of these points are given in Hood's Treatise on Warming and Ventilation, and in 
Wolpert (Principien der Vent, und Luftheiziing), and are also in part discussed in Peclet 
(Traite de la Chaleur, 3d edit.), to which reference is made for those who wish to enter into 
the mathematical part of the inquiry. 

f This is frequently called the Rule of Montgolfier. The formula is v = V2#H ; g being 
the acceleration of velocity in each second of time, viz., 32 '18 feet, and H the height of the 
descent. 



VENTILATION. 113 

friction is in proportion to the length of the tube, and is inversely as the 
diameter. Eight angles greatly increase the friction in the proportion 'of the 
shies of the angles. The friction increases also as the square of the velocity. 
The deduction of ^th would leave 4*686 linear feet per second as the actual 
velocity. If this be multiplied by the area of the opening, in feet, or decimals 
of a foot,* the amount of air is expressed in cubic feet per second, and multi- 
plying by 60 will give the amount per minute. 

A table is given at page 135, in which this calculation has been made for 
all probable temperatures and heights. 

This cause of movement is, of course, constantly acting when the temperature 
of the air changes. It will alone suffice to ventilate all rooms in which the 
air is hotter than the external air, but will not answer when the air to be 
changed is equal in temperature to, or colder than, the external air. 

As its action is equable, imperceptible, and continuous, it is the most useful 
cause hi natural ventilation in cold climates, in inhabited and warm rooms ; 
and in all habitations arrangements should be made to allow this cause to act. 
As the action increases with the difference of temperature, it is most powerful 
in winter, when rooms are artificially warmed, and is least so, or is quite 
arrested in summer, or in hot climates, when the internal and external tem- 
peratures are identical. 

How powerful its action is may be seen from the following statement : 
At the Hospital Lariboisiere in Paris, a powerful fan is used to drive air into 
some of the wards, at a considerable expense. It has been lately shown by 
General Morin that the movement of air in the wards is, however, chiefly pro- 
duced by natural ventilation, arising from difference of temperature. Only 
14-9 per cent, was on an average due to the fan, and in two experiments it was 
as low as 12 -4 per cent. No less than 85'1 per cent, of the movement was 
from natural ventilation. 

SUB-SECTION IV. PRACTICAL APPLICATION OF THE GENERAL STATEMENTS ON 
NATURAL VENTILATION. 

1. No particular arrangements are necessary to allow diffusion to act except 
that there shall be communication between two atmospheres. 

2. To obtain the perflation of the wind, windows should be placed, in all 
cases where it can be managed, at opposite sides of a room. The windows 
should open at the top, and in case the wind has a high velocity, means 
should be taken to distribute it. This can be done by sloping the window 
inwards when it opens, a plan which answers admirably at the Middlesex 
Hospital, where the windows are divided into three parts, which open slop- 
ingly by a lever and pivot. A board may be placed obliquely upwards from 
the top sash of the window, when it opens in the usual way ; then the air 
striking against the board is thrown up towards the ceiling. The Patent 
Ventilating Company use a wire screen, which folds up when the window is 
shut, and unfolds when the window is pulled down. The velocity of the 
wind is checked by the gauze, and the current is minutely divided. All these 
plans are good, especially the one adopted in the Middlesex Hospital. 

Various plans have been proposed by different persons. The panes of 
glass may be made double, spaces being left at the bottom of the outside pane, 
and at the top of the inner one, so that the wind is obliged to pass up between 
the two panes before it enters the room. Or, the lower sash being raised, 

* It will be found always easier to take the area in decimals of a foot instead of inches ; but 
if it be taken in inches, multiply the linear discharge by the number of square inches, and 
divide by 144. 



114 



AIR. 



and a piece of wood placed below it, the air is allowed to pass through 
the space left between the upper and lower sashes. Or, glass louvres, which 
can be more or less closed, are placed in one of the panes of the window ; or a 
number of holes are obliquely bored through the panes, through which the air 
may pass up towards the ceiling before it intermixes with the air of the room. 

Besides windows, special openings may be provided for the wind to blow 
through, as in the plans already referred to of Mr Sylvester and Dr Arnott. 

In all warm climates, where no chill can be produced by wind, it is a good 
plan to make the walls entirely pervious. Nothing can be better than the ven- 
tilation of the bamboo-matted houses in Burmah. The wind blows through 
them, but is so broken up into currents that it is not in the least unpleasant. 
Even in colder parts of India the upper parts of the walls might be made thus 
pervious, provision being made to cover them, if necessary, in the cold season. 





Fig. 12. 



Fig. 13. 
Section of Fig. 11. 




Fig. 11. 



Fig. 14. 



To obtain the full effect of the aspirating power of the wind, chimneys or 
ventilating tubes should be fitted with cowls turning away from the wind. 
The cowl should be large, and should expand greatly towards the end, so as 
to make the calibre of the opening several times greater than that of the tube 
(fig. 1 2). Most cowls on chimneys are too small. The upper rim should also 
project a little, so as to lessen the chance of rain getting in. 

Another form of covering is represented in fig. 11, and is also drawn in 
section (fig. 1 3). Whichever way the wind blows it almost always causes 
an up-draught. A little rain, however, may possibly penetrate, but otherwise 
it is as good as the cowl. 



VENTILATION. '115 

Louvred openings are not nearly so good ; the aspirating effect is much less, 
down-draughts are common, and rain gets in. If louvres are used, a jflan in- 
vented by Mr Kitchie is a good one.* Inside the louvre is a moveable cylinder, 
turning with a vane ; on the side opposite the wind is an opening through 
which the air escapes (fig. 14). 

3. The movement produced by the difference of weight of unequally heated 
bodies of air, will, of course, go on through open windows and doors, and 
through all the contrivances just mentioned. But as in cold climates windows 
and doors must sometimes be shut, no room of any kind should be without addi- 
tional openings, which may permit this movement from unequal temperature to 
go on. The great difficulty here, is to exclude the action of the wind ; and, 
in fact, it is impossible to do so ; but, as far as possible, the openings should 
be protected from the perflating influence of the wind, so that only its 
aspirating force should be acting. They should be capable of being lessened 
in size, when the difference of the external and internal temperatures is 
great. As long as there are openings, movement will go on ; and it does 
not really matter, as long as there is proper distribution, where the air comes 
in or goes out, or whether its direction is constant. In fact, it scarcely 
ever is constant, so liable is the direction to be altered by winds, by the action 
of the sun heating one side of a room, by the unequal distribution of heat 
in the room, &c. Still, it seems desirable, as far as it can be done, to make 
such arrangements as shall give the movement of air a certain direction ; and 
therefore, in most systems, some of the openings are intended for the admission 
of fresh air. These are called inlet, entrance, or adduction openings ; others are 
intended for the discharge of impure air exit, outlet, or abduction openings. 

Total size of all the openings, whether intended for Inlets or Outlets. As the 
movement of air increases with temperature, the size of the apertures can only 
be fixed for a certain given temperature ; and as the efflux of hot air increases 
with the height of the column (supposing the temperature is equal through- 
out), a different size has also to be fixed for different heights. 

Supposing that the height of the heated column be 15 feet, a difference of 
ten degrees between the external and internal air produces an efflux (allowance 
being made for friction) of about 12,000 linear feet per hour. For an opening 
of 1 square foot, 12,000 cubic feet would be therefore discharged ; and if the 
discharge per man is to be 2000 cubic feet per hour, the share of outlet space 
per man will be, of course, one-sixth part of a square foot, or 24 square inches. 
This is nearly equivalent to a square opening 5 inches (4 -9 inches) to the side. 
There must be, of course, an equal amount of inlet ; so that the inlet and 
outlet together would be 48 square inches per head. This, therefore, would be 
the total open area necessary for each person, independent of all openings by 
windows and doors. In hospitals, more must be given, as more air is necessary. 

To get the total size of the openings for any room containing healthy per- 
sons, multiply, then, 48 by the number of persons, and the result is the total 
section area to be provided, expressed in square inches. For hospitals, mul- 
tiply 72 by the number of persons. 

If the columns of hot air be higher than 15 feet, the openings can be made 
smaller, provided the temperature be the same throughout. The exact size 
can be determined by the table, p. 135, if it be thought necessary. 

Sir Joshua Jebb's experiments, referred to in the Eeport of the Barrack 
Committee (1855, p. 108), give an amount of 35 to 50 square inches for 
inlet and outlet ; but in this case extraction by a fire was in force. 

* Peclet (op. cit. t. i. p. 241) figures a variety of chimney coverings, and many others hav< j 
been proposed. 

H 2 



116 AIR. 

The Barrack Commissioners of 1861, whose plans are now used in all the 
barracks and military hospitals of the British army, order, on an average, 1 1 
square inches of outlet for each man ; or for a room of twelve men, an outlet 
tube of nearly 1 square foot superficies is provided, in addition to the chimney. 
The exact amount depends, however, on the position of the barrack-room, or, 
in other words, on the height of the outlet shaft ; in the lowest story of a three- 
storied building, only 10 square inches are given per head. (See BARRACKS.) 
The area of the inlets is made nearly equal to that of the outlet shaft (10 to 
11 square inches). The total area of inlet and outlet is, therefore, 22 to 24 
square inches ; but there is also the chimney, which in barracks and hospitals 
gives, on an average, about 6 square inches to each man making the total 
area of openings about 28 to 30 square inches per head. In hospitals these 
numbers are doubled. This plan has wonderfully improved the ventilation of 
barrack-rooms; and a change of air, equivalent to about 1200 cubic feet per 
head per hour, is, on an average, secured in barracks.* 

Relative size of the Inlets and Outlets. It is commonly stated that, as the 
heated air expands, the outlets should be larger than the inlets, and the great 
disproportions of 5 to 4 and 10 to 9 have been given. As, however, the 
average difference of temperature is only about 10 to 15 Fahr. in this 
country, the disproportion is much too great, as a cubic foot of air only ex- 
pands to 1*020361 cubic feet with an increase of 10. Even if the difference 
is 30 Fahr., a cubic foot of air only becomes 1'061 cubic feet, which is equal 
to an increase of about ^\ih. The difference is so slight that it may be 
neglected, and the inlets and outlets can be made of the same size. 

It is desirable to make each individual inlet opening not larger than 48 to 
60 square inches in area, or enough for two or three men ; and to make the 
outlet not more than 1 square foot, or enough for six men. Distribution is 
more certain with these small openings. 

Position and Description of the Inlet and Outlet Tubes. 1. Inlets. The 
air must be taken from a pure source, and there must be no chance of any 
effluvia passing in. As a rule, the inlet tubes should be short, and so made as 
to be easily cleaned, otherwise dirt lodges, and the air becomes impure. In- 
lets should not be large and single, but rather numerous and small (from 48 
to 60 inches superficial), so that the air may be properly distributed. They 
should be conical or trumpet-shaped, where they enter the room, as the enter- 
ing air, after perhaps a slight contraction, spreads out fan-like, and a slight 
back-current from the room down the sides of the funnel facilitates the mixing 
of the entering air with that of the room. To lessen the risk of immediate 
down-draught they should turn upwards, if they are placed above the heads of 
the persons. Externally the inlets should be partly protected from the wind ; 
otherwise the wind blows through them too rapidly, and, if the current be 
strong, draughts are felt ; an overhanging shelf or hood outside will answer 
pretty well. Valves must be provided to partially close the openings if the 
wind blows in too strongly, or if the change of air is too rapid in cold weather. 



* Wolpert (Principiender Ventilat. pp. 159, 160) gives the following formula for determining 
the section area of a ventilating opening (presumably both inlet and outlet). Let H be the height 
of the room or tube to the point of discharge ; P the number of persons in it ; and 3 a constant. 

P 

VH x 3. 

If gas-lights are in the room, the constant must be 1*5. The number obtained gives the area 
in square feet, or parts of a square foot. The formula seems to give too small a section area. 
It is to be always remembered, that, as regards ventilation, children are to be reckoned as 
adults. 






VENTILATION. . 117 

Ln many cases (for example, when they enter at the bottom of a room, and 
the air is not warmed) the tubes should be covered with wire-gauze, so as to 
break up the entering current into small streams ; but the openings must not 
be too small, otherwise friction may be great enough to check the entrance. 
The wire-gauze must be frequently cleaned. 

Sometimes an inlet tube must be carried some distance to an inner room, or 
to the opposite side of a large room which is unprovided with cross-ventilation. 
In this case the heat of the room so warms the tube that the wind may be 
permitted to blow through it. 

The position of the inlets is a matter of some difficulty. If there are 
several, they should be, of course, equally distributed through the room, so as 
to insure proper mixing of the air. They should not, however, be placed 
too near an outlet, or the fresh air may at once escape ; theoretically, their 
proper place of entrance is at the bottom of the room, but if so. the air 
must in this climate be warmed ; no person can bear the cold air flowing to 
and chilling the feet. The air can be warmed easily in various ways, viz. 

(a.) The air may pass through boxes containing coils of hot- water pipes, or 
(in factories) of steam-pipes. This is the best mode of warming. The coils 
may be close to the outside wall, or in the centre, or in hospitals in boxes 
under the beds, communicating with the exterior air, and opening into the 
ward. This is an excellent plan, as the confined space below the bed, and 
the bed itself, are purified, and the fresh air rising on both sides of the bed at 
once dilutes the air of respiration and transpiration. (See HOSPITALS.) 

(b.) The air may pass into air chambers behind or round grates and stoves, 
and be there warmed, as in the present barrack and hospital grate, contrived 
by Captain Galton ; or as in the Meissner or Bohm stove of Germany ; or as 
in the terra cotta stove, in the Herbert Hospital at Woolwich. (See 
WARMING.) 

(c.) The tubes may be made to run for some distance inside the room, so 
that they may become warm ; metal tubes answer best for this purpose, and 
they should be small. 

If the air cannot be warmed, it must not be admitted at the bottom of the 
room; it must be let in above, about 9 or 10 feet from the floor, and be 
directed towards the ceiling, so that it may pass up and then fall and mix 
gradually with the air of the room. The Barrack Commissioners have adopted 
this plan with half the fresh air brought into a barrack-room. The other half 
is warmed. It answers very well. 

The fresh air may be introduced at the top of the room, as in M'Kinnell's 
plan, and, if properly distributed, this arrangement answers very well. But 
both these last modes must be considered inferior to the first, if the air can be 
warmed.' 

In towns or manufacturing districts the air is so loaded with particles of coal, 
or, it may be, other powders, that it must be filtered. Nothing answers 
better for this than muslin or thin porous flannel, or paperhangers' canvas, 
spread over the opening, which then should be made larger. This covering 
can be moistened if the incoming air be too dry. 

2. Outlets. The place for the outlets is a most important consideration, as 
it will determine in great measure the position of the inlets. If there are no 
means of heating the air passing through them, they should be at the top of 
the room ; if there are means of heating them, they may be at any point. If 
not artificially warmed, the highest outlet tube is usually the point of greatest 
discharge, and sometimes the only one. 

(a.) Outlet Tubes without Artificial Heat. They should be placed at -the 
highest point of the room ; should be enclosed as far as possible Avithin walls, 



118 AIR. 

so as to prevent the air being cooled ; should be straight and with perfectly 
smooth internal surfaces, so that friction may be reduced to a minimum. In 
shape they may be round or square, and they must be covered above with 
some apparatus (the cowl, hexagon tube, &c.), which may aid the aspirating 
power of the wind, and prevent the passage of rain into the shaft (see page 
114). The louvred openings are not the best. 

The causes of down-draught and down-gusts in outlet tubes are these the 
wind forces down the air ; rain gets in, and, by evaporation, so cools the air 
that it becomes heavier than the air in the room ; or the air becomes too much 
cooled by passage through an exposed tube, so that it cannot overcome the 
weight of the superincumbent atmosphere ; or another outlet shaft, with greater 
discharge, reverses the current. 

Arrangements should be made to distribute the down-draught, if it occurs ; 
flanges placed at some little distance below, so as to throw the air upwards 
again before it mixes with the air of the room, or simple contrivances of a 
similar kind, may be used. Valves should be also fixed to lessen the area 
of the outlet when necessary. If there are several outlet tubes in a room, all 
should commence at the same distance from the floor, be of the same height 
(or the discharge will be unequal), and have the same exposure to sun and 
wind. 

Simple ridge openings may be used in one-storied buildings with slanting 
roofs ; they ventilate most thoroughly, but snow sometimes drifts in. Rain 
may be prevented entering by carrying down the sides of the overhanging 
ridge for some little distance. A flange placed some little distance below will 
throw any down-draught towards the walls. 

(b.) Outlets with Artificial Warmth. The discharge of outlets is much 
more certain and constant if the air can be warmed. The chimney and open 
fire is an excellent outlet so good that in dwelling-houses, if there are proper 
inlets, no other outlet need be made. When rooms are large, and more 
crowded, other outlets are necessary ; the heat of the fire may be farther 
utilised by shafts round the chimney, opening at the top of the room, or, in 
other words, by surrounding the smoke-flue with foul-air shafts. 

Gas, if used, should in all cases be made to warm an outlet tube, both to 
carry off the products of combustion, and to utilise its heat. The best 
arrangement appears to be to place over the gas-jet a tube to carry off the 
products of combustion, and to case the pipe itself with a tube, the opening 
of which is at the ceiling ; the tube carrying off the gas products is hot 
enough to cause a very considerable draught in its casing, and thus two outlet 
currents are in action, one over the gas, and one from the ceiling round the 
gas-tube. 

In various other ways the heat of fire and lights may be taken advantage 
of. There will be seldom any difficulty in arranging the inlets and outlets, 
and in obtaining a satisfactory result, if these principles are borne in mind, 
viz., to have the fresh air pure, to distribute it properly, to have the relative 
positions and sizes of the inlets and outlets so arranged as to keep the cur- 
rents vertical, and to adopt every means of warming the outlets, and of dis- 
tributing the air, which, in spite of all precautions, will occasionally pass down 
them. 

In hot climates, when outlet shafts are run up above the general level of the 
building, it would be of advantage to make them of brickwork, and to colour 
them black, so that they may absorb and retain heat. 

Under the headings of the different military buildings, the plans to be used 
in each case aro particularly described. 




VENTILATION. 119 



SUB-SECTION V. PLANS OF TUBES AND SHAFTS WHICH HAVE BEEN PROPOSED. 

In most of the plans which have been proposed, the inventors have not 
distinctly seen that the influence of the winds and of the movement of air 
produced by unequal temperatures must be carefully distinguished, and, as 
far as can be done, provided for. 

1. Openings at once to the Outer Air for Inlets, the Chimney being relied on 
for the Outlet or Special Tubes fixed in. Perforated or air bricks are let into 
the walls. A usual size is 9 x 3 inches, and the united area of all the several 
openings in one brick is about 11^ square inches. Another common size is 
10x6 inches, with an open area of about 24 square inches. The wind blows 
freely through them, and draughts are produced. 

The Sheringham valve is an improvement on this ; the air passes through 
a perforated brick or iron plate, and is then directed upwards by a valved 
opening, which can be closed, if necessary, by a 
balanced weight (fig. 15). The size of the internal 
opening is, in the usual-sized valve, 9 inches by 3, 
and the area is 27 inches. These valves are usually 
placed towards the upper part of the room. The 
wind blows through them, and the movement is 
therefore variable. They are often outlets ; it will, 
in fact, depend upon circumstances whether they are Fig. 15. 

inlets or outlets. Very little draught is, however, 

caused by them, unless with a high wind ; they are well adapted for small 
rooms, but if used in large rooms, there must be a considerable number of 
them. 

An open iron frame of the size of a brick, covered with perforated zinc, and 
with a valve to close it, if necessary, is a still simpler plan, and the air is 
pretty well distributed. The gauze should be cleaned frequently. The 
National Ventilation Company fix folded wire-gauze screens at the top of the 
windows ; when the window is opened, the screen is unfolded. Mr Louch, 
of Dublin, uses a wooden box, which contains 3 or 4 partitions of perforated 
zinc, and can be closed inside by a sloping cover ; the box is placed obliquely 
through the wall under the eaves, and the air is broken into currents by the 
zinc, and is then thrown up towards the ceiling by the sloping cover. This 
answers well in calm weather, but the wind blows through, and draughts are 
caused. Mr Boyle of London uses a round plate working on a screw, which 
can be brought nearer or farther from a corresponding opening in the wall ; 
the entering air strikes on the plate, and then spreads circularly over the wall, 
and is then drawn gently into the room. 

The Barrack Commissioners have placed in the barracks an opening about 
7 to 10 feet from the ground; inside the room there is a fixed triangular box, 
closed at the sides and open above. This opening is much larger than the 
external opening. It was protected by wire-gauze, but this is now found to 
be unnecessary. 

A plan proposed by Mr Varley is said to have worked well in a school of 
200 children ; a perforated zinc tube, opening into the external air, runs 
round the cornice of three sides of the room ; on the fourth side, another per- 
forated zinc tube is connected with the chimney. Many years ago, a similar 
plan was applied to emigrant ships ; two tubes ran the whole length of the 
between decks, just under the upper deck ; the under side was perforated, 
and the tubes opened at the two ends externally ; the wind, entering one 
end, blew strongly along the tubes, sending down a great body of air, and 
sending off the impure air from the other end. 



120 



AIR. 



2. Tubes of Different Kinds. A single tube has been sometimes used for 
inlet and outlet, a double current being estab- 
lished. This is, however, a rude plan, as there are 
no means of distributing the air, and as the inter- 
mingling of the current and the friction of the 
meeting air is sometimes so great as to impede, 
or even for a time stop, the movement.* To 
avoid these inconveniences, Watson proposed to 
place a partition in the tube (fig. 16), and Muir 
suggested the use of a double partition running 
from corner to corner, so as to make four tubes. 
He covered his divided tube with a louvre, so as 
to make use in some degree of the aspiratory power 
Ma of the wind on one side. 

In these tubes, accidental circumstances, such as 
the sun's rays on one side, the wind, the fire in the 
room, &c., will determine which is outlet and 



i 



Fig. 16. 



which is inlet. They are so far better than the single tube that the partition 
divides the currents and prevents friction, but there is the same irregular 
action and changing of currents from accidental circumstances, so that the 
direction of the currents and their rate are variable. The distribution of the 
entering air is also not good. 

Much better than these plans is M'KinnelTs circular tube. It consists of 
two cylinders, one encircling the other, the area of the inner tube and en- 
circling ring being equal. The inner one is the outlet tube ; it is so because 

the casing of the other tube maintains the 
temperature of the air in it ; and it is also 
always made rather higher than the other ; 
above it is protected by a hood, but if it had a 
cowl turning away from the wind, it would be 
better. The outer cylinder or ring is the inlet 
tube ; the air is taken at a lower level than 
the top of the outlet tube ; when it enters the 
room, it is thrown up towards the ceiling, and 
then to the walls by a flange placed on the 
bottom of the inner tube ; the air then passes 
from the walls along the floor towards the centre 
of the room, and upwards to the outlet shaft. 
(Figs. 17 and 18.) Both tubes can be closed 
by valves. If there is a fire in the room, both 
tubes may become inlets ; to prevent this, the 
outlet tube should be closed ; if doors and win- 
dows are open, both tubes become outlets. 




Fig. 17. 



The movement of air by this plan is imperceptible, or almost so ; it is an 
admirable mode for square or round rooms, or small churches ; for very long 
rooms it is less adapted. 

The tube is made of all sizes, from 6 inches in diameter, which is adapted 
for a sitting-room, up to 7 or 8 feet, which is the size used in some churches. 
The two tubes, after passing out of the room, may be taken in different direc- 



* The model of Watson's ventilating tube is well adapted for showing how opposing curre 
of air block each other. Although the tube is of good size, a candle placed in a bell glass, i 



currents 
into 

the top of which the tube is fixed, soon goes out ; a partition being then inserted into the tube, 
the currents are at once divided one passes up, one down, the sides of the tube, and the candle 
burns again. 



VENTILATION. 



121 



tions, care being taken that the inner tube is always the longest, 'and, if 
possible, with the fewest curves. 

If the two tubes can be kept together for some 
distance, an advantage would perhaps be gained, 
as the hot air would transmit a portion of its 
heat to the air in the outer tube, which would 
enter the room at a higher temperature than 
would otherwise be the case ; some loss of move- 
ment would result, but this would be trifling. 

Dr Chowne* has proposed an inverted siphon 
for an outlet tube. He finds that in an inverted 
siphon there is a current up the long limb, and 
this is, in fact, powerful enough to overcome the 
resistance of the air in the short leg, and to draw 
a current down the short leg with considerable 
force, which is proportioned to the excess in 
length of the long leg. The cause is perhaps the 




Fig. 18. 



fact, that the temperature of the air in the long limb is higher, though Dr 
Chowne has not been able to detect this by the thermometer ; he thinks 
that the changes in the amount of watery vapour play some part in the pro- 
duction of the current. 

Dr Chowne proposes to make the chimney the long leg of the siphon, to 
make the junction at or just above the throat of the flue, and so let the short 
leg open near the ceiling of the room. Separate inlets are provided. From per- 
sonal observation, I can testify that a good movement of air is thus obtained: 

Dr Arnott's chimney ventilator is a valved opening at the top of the room, 
leading at once into the chimney ; and, like Dr Chowne's siphon, has the 
great advantage of drawing the air from the top of the room ; it has been, and 
is, much used, but has the inconvenience of occasionally allowing the reflux 
of smoke. 

Mr Boyle has altered this by hanging small talc plates at a certain angle ; 
falling by their own weight, they close the opening and prevent reflux, but 
a very slight pressure opens them. 

Of these various plans, M'Kinnell's should be chosen, if the air must be 
admitted at the top of the room ; and it is well adapted for guard-rooms, cells, 
and rooms of small dimensions, when it is desired to have the ventilating ap- 
paratus out of reach. Watson's divided tube can also be used, but is less 
useful than M'Kinnell's. 

The plans for military buildings are given under the respective headings of 
Barracks and Hospitals. 

SECTION II. 
ARTIFICIAL VENTILATION. 

Artificial ventilation is accomplished in two ways ; either the air is drawn 
out of a building or room (the method by extraction), or it is driven in, so as 
to force out the air already in the room (the method by propulsion). 

SUB-SECTION I. VENTILATION BY EXTRACTION. 

This is produced by the application of heat, so as to cause an upward cur- 
rent, or by the steam jet, or by a fan or screw, which draws out the air. 

* Ventilation by means of the patent pneumatic or air-siphon, and movement in atmospheric 
air-tubes. (Proceedings of Royal Society, 1855. ) 



122 AIK. 

1. Extraction by Heat. The common chimney is a well-known example of 
this. There is a constant current up the chimney, when the fire is burning, 
in proportion to the size of the fire and of the chimney. The usjial current 
up a common sitting-room chimney, with a fair fire, is, as measured by an 
anemometer, from 3 to 6 feet per second. A very large fire will bring it up 
to 8 or 9 feet. The movement caused by a kitchen or furnace fire is, of course, 
greater than this. If the area of the section where the anemometer is placed 
be known, the discharge can be stated in cubic feet. In a room I have often 
examined, the area of the throat of the chimney is 1 *5 square feet ; there is no 
down-draught, but an upward current, which, with a good fire, is 4 feet per 
second. The discharge per second is then 6 cubic feet, or no less than 
21,600 cubic feet per hour. The capacity of the room is 2000 cubic feet, so 
that a quantity equal to the total air in the room passes up the chimney 
nearly 11 times per hour. And yet, with this immense current, the room, 
when shut up with two or three persons, "gets close. The reason is, that 
when the window is shut the fire is chiefly fed with air which enters below 
two doors, and which, flowing near the ground to the chimney, never pro- 
perly diffuses through the room. The current near the ground moves from 
1-6 to 2 '6 feet per second, and chills the feet. A few feet above the ground 
no movement can be discovered. This is an example of great movement, but 
bad distribution of air, and, consequently, imperfect ventilation. 

When the air enters in more equably, and is .better distributed, the move- 
ment of air is from the inlets gently towards the fireplace there is also said 
to be a movement, from above the fireplace, along the ceiling and down the 
walls, and then along the floor to the chimney. (Eeid and Stewart, quoted 
by the Barrack Commissioners.) 

In the wards of Fort Pitt the current, with a good fire, is about 3J to 4J 
feet per second, and as the section area of the throat is '5 square foot, the 
average discharge is about 7200 cubic feet per hour. In the barracks of 
Chatham, Dr Fyffe found the discharge by the chimney to be 9080 cubic 
feet per hour (average of six observations). In the barracks at Gravesend, 
Messrs Hewlett, Stanley, and Eeed found the discharge to be 6120 cubic feet 
per hour (average of twenty observations). In the experiments of the Barrack 
Commissioners,* the chimney discharge ranged from 5300 to 16,000 cubic feet 
per hour, the mean of twenty-five experiments being 9904 cubic feet. Even in 
summer, without a fire, there is generally a good up-current, but it is difficult 
to state the amount. It may be then concluded that, with an ordinary fire, a 
chimney gives a discharge sufficient for four or five persons ; if, then, more 
than this number of persons habitually live in the room, another outlet must 
be provided. 

As the current up the chimney is so great when the fire is lighted, all 
other openings in a room, if not too many, become inlets ; and, in this way, 
down-draughts of air may occur from tubes intended as outlets. There is no 
remedy for this, and if too much enters, the outlets must be more or less 
closed. 

If the room be without openings, so that no air can reach the fire, air is 
drawn down the chimney, and a double current is established, by which the 
fire is fed. The down-current coming in puff's is one cause of smoky chim- 
neys, and may be at once cured by making an inlet. 

The chimney and fire is the type of a number of other similar modes of 
ventilation by extraction. 

The ventilation of mines is carried on by lighting a fire at the bottom of a 



Report, 1863, p. 73. 



shaft 



VENTILATION. 123 



(the upcast or return shaft), or half a shaft, if there be only one. The 
air is drawn down the other or downcast or intake shaft, or half the shaft, and 
is then made to traverse the galleries of the mine, being directed this way or 
that by partitions. Double doors are used, so that there is no back or side 
rush of the air. The current passes up the upcast-shaft at the rate of from 
8 to 10 feet per second; it flows through the main galleries at the rate of 
from 4 to 6 feet per second, or even more, and from 1000 to 2000 cubic feet 
per head per hour are supplied in good mines. In fire-damp mines much 
more than this is given, even as much as 6000 cubic feet per man per hour 
(Proceedings of Civil Engineers, vol. xii. p. 308). If the quantity of air be 
reduced too low there is a serious diminution in the amount of work per- 
formed by the men. A horse requires 2466 cubic feet, and a light 59 cubic 
feet per hour. It may easily be conceived how skilfully the air must be 
directed, so as to traverse the most remote workings; in some mines a portion 
of air makes a circuit of from 30 to 40 miles before it can arrive at the up- 
cast-shaft. The size of the shafts in a colliery varies from 8 to 11 or 12 feet 
in diameter; the sectional area of a shaft of the former size would be 50 
square feet. A current of 8 feet per second in the upcast-shaft would give a 
discharge of 1,440,000 cubic feet per hour, which would give 720 men 2000 
cubic feet per hour. 

The sectional area and height of the extracting-shaft, and of the tubes 
running into it, has been fixed by Pe'clet; the principle is to give to the 
shaft the greatest height which can be allowed, and the largest section which 
can be given,* without permitting the temperature of the contained air to fall 
so low as to be unable to overcome the resistance of the atmosphere at the 
top of the shaft, or the action of the winds, t 

In large buildings the same plan is often used ; a chimney (cheminee d'appel 
of the French) is heated by a fire at the bottom, and into the bottom of this 
shaft, close to the fire, run a number of tubes coming from the different rooms. 
Several French and English hospitals, and many other buildings, are venti- 
lated in this way. Dr Reid for some years ventilated the Houses of Parlia- 
ment in the same manner, and so powerful was his up-draught, that he could 
change the entire air in the building in a few minutes. 

In dwelling-houses it has been proposed to have a central chimney, into 
which the chimneys of all the fires shall open, and to surround this with air- 
shafts connected with the tops of the rooms. It is supposed that, if other 
inlets exist, there will be a current both up the chimney and up the shaft 
running beside it. 

In all these cases it requires that the workmanship shall be very exact, so 
that air shall not reach the extracting-shaft except through the tubes. 

It is now about a hundred and twenty years ago since Dr Mead 
brought before the Eoyal Society Mr Sutton's plan of ventilating ships on 
the same principle. Tubes running from the hold and various cabins joined 
together into one or two large tubes which opened into the ashpit beneath 
the cooking fires. If the doors of the ashpits were kept closed, the fires drew 
the air rapidly from all parts of the ship. Unfortunately, this plan never 
came into general use. The same plan was adopted by Dr Mapleton for the 



* De la Chaleur, 3d edit. 1861, t. iii. p. 6 , 

f* The amount of the resistance given to the movement of air through the tubes leading to 
the shaft, and in the shaft itself, can be calculated from the formula given by Peclet at page 47 
(t. iii. ), but which it is unnecessary to introduce here. General Morin's observations show 
that the difference in the volumes of air passing through small openings is in the ratio of the 
square root of the area. The increased velocity through the smaller openings does not com- 
pensate for this great loss. 



124 AIR. 

ventilation of the hospital ships employed in the last (1860) China War. 
The : arrangement requires some watching to prevent careless cooks from 
allowing air to reach the fires in other ways. 

On the same principle men-of-war are now being ventilated. The funnel 
and upper part of the boiler, and, as far as possible, all the steam apparatus, 
are enclosed in an iron casing, so that a space is left of some 3 or 4 feet 
between the casing and the funnel. When the fires are lighted, there is of 
course a strong current up this space, and to supply this the air is drawn 
down through all the hatchways towards the furnace doors. The tempera- 
ture of the stoke-hole is reduced from 130 or 140 Fahr., to 60 and 70 ; 
and the draught to the fires is so much more perfect, that more steam is 
obtained from the same amount of fuel. This plan, devised by Mr Baker, 
has been ingeniously applied by Admiral Fanshawe, late superintendent- at 
Chatham dockyard, to the ventilation of every part of the ship where there 
are no water-tight compartments. Edmond's plan combines with this the 
ventilation not only of the hold, but of the timbers of the ship. 

Sometimes, instead of a fire at the bottom of the chimney, it is placed at the 
top, but this is a mistake, as there is a great loss of heat from the immediate 
escape of the heated air ; the proper plan is to heat, as much as possible, the 
whole column of air in the chimney, which can only be done by placing the 
fire below. 

Sometimes, instead of, or in addition to a fire, heat is obtained in the shaft 
by means of hot- water pipes. This plan has long been in use in England,* 
and has lately been introduced into France, and improved by M. Leon Duvoir. 
Warming, as well as ventilation, is accomplished by this method, which is in 
action at the Hospitals Lariboisiere (in one-half) and Beaujon. It appears to be 
at once effectual and economical, though it has been sharply criticised by Grassi 
and Peclet. After a very long investigation into the merits of all rival plans, 
it has been adopted by a French Commission for the warming and ventilation 
of the Palais de Justice at Paris, t The plan at the Hospital Lariboisiere is 
simply this : an extracting shaft contains in the lower part a boiler, from 
which two spiral hot- water tubes run up to the requisite height in the shaft, 
and then, leaving it, pass downwards and enter the wards, in which they are 
coiled so as to form hot-water stoves, and then leaving the wards, they pass 
down and re-enter the boiler. There is a continual circulation of hot water, 
and in the shaft there is necessarily an upward current of air. But as the air 
is continually increasing in temperature towards the point of discharge, there 
is a loss of power, just as in the case of the fire being placed at the top instead 
of the bottom of the shaft. From the bottom of the wards air-conduits or 
tubes run into the extracting shaft, and thus the vitiated air is drawn out of 
the wards. The fresh air is admitted directly from the outside into the wards, 
and is warmed by being admitted through the coils of the hot- water tubes. 
In the summer the water is shut off from the water-stoves, but the tempera- 
ture of the extracting shaft is still maintained. 

It is certainly true that the ventilation by this plan is irregular ; J and also, 
that in the Hospital Lariboisiere, a much greater quantity of air passes 
through the extracting shaft than enters through the hot-water stoves. 

In the summer, when there is ventilation without warming, the outflow of 



* It is ill use at the Circuit Court-House in Glasgow, and in the Police Buildings at Edin- 
burgh (Ritchie), and in many other buildings. 

f Two excellent reports have been made by this Commission, of which General Morin is re- 
porter. Their titles are given farther on. 

Peclet Traite de la Chaleur, 1861, t. iii. p. 267. 



II 



VENTILATION. 125 

air from the wards varied from 84-4 cubic metres (2980 cubic feet)' to 55 '3 
cubic metres (1952 cubic feet) per head per hour.* 

In the winter, when there are both ventilation and warming, the outflow of 
air from the wards was 82 -2 cubic metres, or 2902 cubic feet, per head per 
hour. Of that amount only 35 cubic metres (1235 cubic feet) entered by the 
water-stoves, the rest came in by doors and windows and other openings an 
objectionable point, as the air might press in from the closets. Yet, in spite 
of this, the temperature was maintained pretty well up to the limit, fixed in 
the agreement, viz., 15 Cent., or 59 Fahr. 

Oil has been used in some cases instead of water. 

Yery frequently, instead of a fire or hot-water vessels, lighted gas is used 
to cause a current, and if the gas can be applied to other uses, such as light- 
ing, cooking, or boiling water, the plan is an economical one. 

In theatres the chandeliers have long been made use of for this purpose. 
M. Darcet proposed this for several of the old theatres in Paris, and the Com- 
mission t lately appointed to determine the mode of ventilation to be adopted 
in the Theatres Lyrique et du Cirque Imperial, have determined, after much 
consideration, that this plan is the best adapted for theatres. The details 
have, however, been somewhat modified from those devised by Darcet, and 
are too long to be here inserted, but they seem admirably adapted to distri- 
bute the entering air thoroughly, and to insure its discharge. The entering 
air is warmed by caloriferes below the pit, and is then carried by flues to the 
front of the stage, and to the front of each tier of boxes, where they open at 
the floor. The outgoing air is drawn away by flues running from each box, 
and ending in a large central shaft surrounding the tube which carries off the 
products of the combustion of the central chandelier. But every gas-jet in the 
house, as well as the spare heat of the furnace, is made to contribute its share 
of movement. The amount which can be supplied in winter is 30 cubic 
metres ( = 1059 cubic feet) per head per hour. The burning of 20 cubic 
metres (706 - 2 cubic feet) of gas in one hour at the Opera Comique caused the 
discharge of 80,000 cubic metres of air (2,825,280 cubic feet). . The tempera- 
ture of the air was 9 Cent., or 16 Fahr., above the external air. At the 
Yaudeville, 10 cubic metres (353 cubic feet) of gas were consumed per hour, 
and 15,523 cubic metres (548,210 cubic feet) passed through the chimney, 
so that' 1 cubic foot of gas perfectly consumed caused the discharge of 1553 
cubic feet of air. 

The advantages of extraction by heat, especially in the case of theatres and 
buildings where gas can be brought into play, are obvious. 

There are some objections to extraction by the fire and hot-air shaft. 

1. The inequality of the draught. It is almost impossible to keep the fire 
at a constant height. The same quantity of combustible material should be 
consumed in the same time every day, and the heat should be kept in by 
large masses of masonry. Still, with these precautions, the atmospheric in- 
fluences, and changes in the quality of the combustibles, cannot be avoided. 

2. The inequality of the movement from different rooms. From rooms 
nearest the shaft, and with the straightest connecting tubes, there may be a 
strong current, while from distant rooms the friction in the conduits is so 
great that little air may pass. The greatest care is therefore necessary in cal- 
culating the resistance, and in apportioning the area of the tubes to the resist- 
ance. This plan is, indeed, best adapted for compact buildings. Occasionally, 

* Grassi, op., cit. pp. 35-37. 

t Rapport rte la Commission sur le Chauffage et la Ventilation du Theatre Lyrique et du 
Theatre du Cirque Imperial. Rapporteur le General Morin. Paris, 1861. 



126 AIR, 

if the friction be great, from too small size, or the angular arrangement of 
the conduits leading to the hot-shaft, there may be no movement at all in the 
conduits, but a down-current to feed the fire is established in the shaft itself 
a state of things which was discovered by Dr Sanderson to exist in the venti- 
lation of St Mary's Hospital in London. 

3. The possibility of reflux of smoke and, perhaps, of air, from the shaft to 
the rooms, is another objection of some weight. 

4. The impossibility of properly controlling the places where fresh air 
enters. It will flow in from all sides, and possibly from places where it is 
impure, as from closets, &c. ; air is so mobile that with every care it is diffi- 
cult to bring it under complete control it will always press in and out at the 
point of least resistance. 

2. Extraction by the Steam-jet. The moving agent here is the force of the 
steam-jet, which is allowed to pass into a chimney. The cone of steam sets 
in motion a body of air equal to 217 times its own bulk. Tubes passing from 
different rooms enter the chimney below the steam-jet, and the air is extracted 
from them by the strong upward current. This plan is best adapted for 
factories with spare steam. It was employed for some time in the ventilation 
of the House of Lords, but was finally abandoned. 

3. Extraction by a Fan or Screw. An extracting fan or Archimedean screw 
has been used to draw out the air. Several different kinds have been pro- 
posed by Messrs Combes, Letoret, Glepin, and Lloyd, and have been used in 
coal-mines in Belgium, and in some of the English mines. At the Abercarn 
mine, in South Wales, a fan is used of 13 J feet diameter ; the vanes, eight in 
number, are 3| feet wide by 3 feet long ; at 60 revolutions per minute the 
velocity of the air is 782 linear feet per minute, and 45,000 cubic feet are 
extracted ; the velocity at the circumference of the fan is 2545 feet per 
minute ; the theoretical consumption of coal per hour is 17 '4 Ibs.* 

Mr Van Hecke formerly used a fan for this purpose, in his system of venti- 
lation of buildings, but he has found it better to abandon it, and to substitute 
a propelling fan. It was proposed by Mr Higgins to put in a chimney an 
Archimedean screw to be turned by the wind, and in this way it was thought 
a constant upward current would be caused. But the plan has little power, 
and is not now employed. 

To both these methods of extraction some of the objections already noted 
apply, but extraction by the fan is, of course, more uniform. 



SUB-SECTION II. VENTILATION BY PROPULSION. 

This plan was proposed by Desaguiliers, in 1734,t when he invented a fan 
or wheel enclosed in a box. The air passed in at the centre of the fan, and 
was thrown by the revolving vanes into a conduit leading from the box. In 
some form or other this fan has been used ever since, and the conduits lead- 
ing from it are now generally made large, so that the fan may move slowly, 
and deliver a large quantity of air at a low velocity. The fan, if small, is 
worked by hand ; if larger, by horse, water, or steam power. 

The fans are often made with six or eight rays, each carrying vanes at the 
end, which should be as close as possible to the enveloping box. In size, 
the length of the vanes should be more than half the length of the rays ; 

* Ure's Dictionary, 1860 ; Art. Ventilation, vol. iii. p. 961. 

*f* Course of Experimental Philosophy, vol. ii. p. 564. The wheel was shown to the Royal 
Society in 1734. 



VENTILATION. 127 

the number of rays should augment with the diameter of the orifice of access.* 
(P&let, p. 259.) 

The amount of air delivered can be told by timing the speed of revolution 
of the extremities of the fan per second, or per minute ; the effective velocity 
is equal to |ths of this, and this is the rate of movement of the air. If the 
section area of the conduit be known, the number of cubic feet discharged per 
second, minute, or hour can be at once calculated. 

The power of this plan is very considerable. With a fan of 10 feet diameter, 
revolving sixty times per minute, the effective velocity is 1414 feet per minute. 
The rate of movement in the main channel should not be more than 4 feet per 
second ; the conduits must gradually enlarge in calibre ; and the movement, 
when the air is delivered into the rooms, should not be more than 1| feet per 
second. 

At the Hospital Lariboisiere, in Paris, it is stated that 150 cubic metres 
( = 4296 cubic feet) have been delivered per head per hour, in the wards 
ventilated by the propelling fan of MM. Thomas et Laurens. It must, how- 
ever, be remembered, that the later observations of General Morin have shown 
that much of the movement ascribed to the fan was really owing to natural 
ventilation. 

This plan is very well adapted for those cases in which a large amount of 
air has to be suddenly supplied, as in crowded music halls and assembly 
rooms. St George's Hall at Liverpool is ventilated in this way. The air 
is taken from the basement; is washed by being drawn through a thin 
film of water thrown up by a fountain; is passed into caloriferes (in the 
winter), where it can be moistened by a steam-jet, if the difference of the dry 
and wet bulb be more than four or six degrees, and is then propelled along 
the channels which distribute it to the hall. In summer, it is cooled in the 
conduits by the evaporation of water. 

At the Hopital Necker in Paris, and in many other places, the plan of Van 
Hecke is in use. A fan, worked by an engine, drives the air into small 
chambers in the basement, where it is warmed by cockle stoves, and then 
ascends into the rooms above, and passes out by outlet shafts constructed in 
the walls. The system is effective and economical, though it is only just to 
say that, the use of the fan excepted, it is precisely similar in principle to 
Sylvester's. Mr Phipsont states that 2 '2 Ib. avoir, of coal will renew 86,065 
cubic feet of air. 

Mr Brunei introduced into the Hospital at Renkioi, on the Dardanelles, in 
the Crimean war, a wheel of Desaguiliers, at the entrance to each ward of fifty 
men. It was worked by hand, and could throw 1000 cubic feet every minute 
into the ward. Owing to the position of the Hospital, which permitted a 
thorough perflation of air, the wheels were seldom used, but in a still atmo- 
sphere they would have been invaluable. If small wheels of this kind could 
be worked by hydraulic power, or in some cheap way, they might be used 
economically to Ventilate particular wards, even when a general system by 
propulsion is not adopted. 

In America many of the larger establishments are ventilated on the same 
plan. The Utica Asylum (N. Y.) is ventilated^: by a fan (14 feet diameter), 
worked by a 12 -horse steam engine. The air taken at the basement enters a 

* Peclet, De la Chaleur, 3d edition, 1860, t. ii. pp. 259, 263. Numerous kinds of fans for 
propulsion and extraction are figured, and detailed accounts of construction and amount of 
work are given. 

t Notice of Dr Van Hecke's system, by W. W. Phipson. Reprint from " London Medical 
Review," 1862, p. 6. 

J For this information T have to thank my friend, Dr C. W. Eddy. 



128 



AIR. 



chamber filled with 80,000 feet of steam piping ; and then, after being warmed, 
enters the wards at the floors, and rises to the ceiling, where it escapes through 
apertures. 

In addition to the fan other appliances have been used. Soon after Desa- 
guiliers proposed the fan, Dr Hales employed large bellows for the same purpose, 
and they were used for some time on board some men-of-war, and in various 
buildings. They were worked by hand ; and probably this, and their faulty 
construction, led to their being disused. Their use has been revived, and their 

form modified and improved by Dr 
Arnott. * Dr Arnott has shown that 
Hales lost much power by forcing 
his air through small openings ; 
and, by some ingenious alterations, 
has made an effective machine. It 
is a large box or cylinder, in which 
a piston works ; openings are made 
at the ends of sufficient size ; oiled 

I<F.<?p rings silk hangs over the upper openings 

p. p is ton on th e inside, and on the lower open- 

ings on the outside of the box. These 
covers, therefore, act as valves, and 
allow the air to pass in one direction 




<p.jpring\r 
p. piston 
v. valves 

Fig. 19. 



only ; as the piston moves, air is driven through the lower openings, on the side 
towards which the piston is moving, while fresh air enters at the same time 
through the upper openings at the opposite end. The figure will show this 
clearly. A pump of 6 feet long, 4 feet wide, made of deal boards, and fitted 
with a piston of wood, can be constructed in a few hours, and will deliver 96 
cubic feet at every stroke, or 192 cubic feet at each double stroke of the piston. 
If ten strokes only are made per minute, nearly 2000 cubic feet of air are 
driven out in any direction. On board ship this little apparatus has proved 
very useful. Canvas tubes can be fitted to it to bring down fresh air. 

Dr Arnott has also fitted up a gasometer pump, which was used in the 
York County Hospital for some time ; it was worked by hydraulic pressure, 
and the expenditure of 60 gallons of water in an hour drove through the 
hospital 120,000 cubic feet of air, which would be enough for 60 patients, if 
2000 cubic feet per hour only were given. The air was warmed, if necessary, 
by water leaves, t This plan was in use for some time at the York Hospital, 
but was finally disused, probably because the apparatus, though excellent in 
principle, was not quite large enough. Dr Arnott has also proposed to cause 
the two currents of air leaving and entering the rooms to pass close to each 
other, being separated only by the thinnest partition ; in this way the heat of 
the impure is taken up by the pure air. 

The hydraulic air-pump, sometimes used in mines, is useful on a small 
scale ; a circular vessel having above a hole closed by a valve (a) opening out- 
wards, works up and down in a vessel nearly full of water, through which 
passes a tube into the mine shaft. This tube is closed above by a valve (&) 
opening upwards. When the cylinder moves down, air is forced out at (a) ; 



* "On the Smokeless Fireplace," by Neil Arnott, M.D., F.R.S., &c., 1855, p. 162 ; and in 
other publications. In the figure all the valves are shown open, but, during action, the top 
valves on one side, and the bottom on the other, are alternately open or closed. 

| Water leaves (one of Dr Arnott's ingenious contrivances) are thin, flat boxes made of sheet- 
copper, used instead of pipes ; the boxes are set side by side, like the leaves of a book, about 
half an inch apart, and are connected by tubes, at the top and bottom, which pass to the 
boiler. 






VENTILATION. 



129 



rhen it rises, air passes into it at (b), to be expelled through (a) at the next 
descent.* 

The punkah used in India is another mechani- 
cal agent with a similar though more imperfect 
action. When a punkah is pulled in a room open 
on all sides, it will force out a portion of air, the 
place of which will be at once supplied by air 
rushing in with greater or less rapidity from all 
points. If the punkah can be moistened in any 
way, its cooling effect is considerable. Captain 
Moorsom of the 52d Regiment, some years ago pro- 
posed an ingenious plan, which is given in the 
Indian Sanitary Report. A wheel turned by a 
bullock at once moves the punkah, and elevates 
water, which then passes along the top of the 
punkah, and flows down it. 

The advantages of ventilation by propulsion are 
its certainty, and the ease with which the amount 
thrown in can be altered. The stream of air can 
be taken from any point, and can, if necessary, be 
washed by passing through a thin film of water, 
or through a thin screen of moistened cotton, and 
can be warmed or cooled at pleasure to any degree. 
In fact, the engineer can introduce into this opera- 
tion the precision of modern science. 

The disadvantages are the great cost, the chances 
of the engine breaking down, and some difficulties 
in distribution. If the air enter through small 

openings, at a high velocity, it will make its way to the outlets without mix- 
ing. The method requires, therefore, great attention in detail. 

Pettenkofer has suggested that outlet openings are unnecessary ; that when 
the air is driven in, it will be sure to find its way out through doors and win- 
dows, which are constantly open, and that a great cost may thus be saved. 
This has not been put to experimental proof, and it would be undesirable to 
run the risk of in any way obstructing the entrance of the air, as may be the 
case if sufficient means of egress are not provided. 




Pig. 20. 



SECTION III 

RELATIVE VALUE OF NATURAL AND ARTIFICIAL 
VENTILATION. 

Circumstances differ so widely, that it is impossible to select one system in 
preference to all others. In temperate climates, in most cases, especially for 
dwelling-houses, barracks, and hospitals, natural ventilation, with such powers 
of extraction as can be got by utilising the sources of warming and lighting, 
is the best. Who, in fact, would not attempt to make use of these vast powers 
of nature, which are ever ready to serve us ? Incessant movement of the air 
is a law of nature. We have only to allow the air in our cities and dwellings 
to take share in this constant change, and ventilation will go on uninterrup- 
tedly without our aid. 



Ure's Dictionary, I860, vol. iii. p. 953. 



130 AIR. 

In some circumstances, however, as in the tropics, with a stagnant and 
warm air; and in temperate climates in certain buildings, where there are a 
great number of small rooms, or where sudden assemblages of people take 
place, mechanical ventilation must be used. So much may be said both for 
the system of extraction and propulsion under certain circumstances, that I 
think it is impossible to give an abstract preference to one over the other. 
This is evident, indeed, from the fact, that quite contrary opinions have been 
arrived at by equally competent men. Peclet, whose great authority no one 
can doubt, says (De la Chaleur, t. iii. p. 63), " Mechanical ventilation has 
then an immense advantage over the ventilation of an extracting chimney " 
(cheminee d'appel) ; and Grassi, from a comparison of the two plans at the 
Lariboisiere Hospital, unequivocally condemned the system of extraction as 
arranged by Duvoir. Yet, lately, General Morin, after a fresh inquiry into 
the whole subject, has as decidedly pronounced the system of propulsion to 
be everywhere inferior to that by extraction. He has also condemned the 
plan of Van Hecke, which previously had been praised by Pettenkofer. In 
fact, it is evident that the special conditions of the case must determine the 
choice, and we must look more to the amount of air, and the method of dis- 
tribution, than to the actual source of the moving power. But in either case 
the greatest engineering skill is necessary in the arrangement of tubes, the 
supply of fresh air, &c. For hospitals I cannot but believe natural ventilation 
is the proper plan. (See HOSPITALS.) The cost of the various plans will 
depend entirely on circumstances ; the nature of the building ; the price of 
materials, coal, &c. On the whole, the plans of ventilating and warming by 
hot-water pipes., and Van Hecke's plan, are cheaper than the method by pro- 
pulsion by means of a large fan ; but the latter gives us a method which is 
more under engineering control, and is better adapted for hot climates when it 
is desired to cool the air. (See BARRACKS IN HOT CLIMATES.) 




CHAPTER IV. 

EXAMINATION OF AIE AND OF THE SUFFICIENCY OF 
VENTILATION. 

THE sufficiency of ventilation should be examined : 

1st, By determining the amount of cubic space assigned to each person, and 
the amount of movement of the air, or in other words, the number of cubic 
feet of fresh air which each person receives per hour. 

2d, By examining the air by the senses, and by chemical and mechanical 
methods, so as to determine the presence, and, if possible, the amounts of 
suspended matters, organic vapour, carbonic acid, sulphuretted hydrogen, and 
watery vapour. 



SECTION I. 
MEASUREMENT OF CUBIC SPACE. 

The three dimensions of length, breadth, and height are simply multiplied 
into each other. If a room is square or oblong, with a flat ceiling, there is, of 
course, no difficulty in doing this, but frequently rooms are of irregular form, 
with angles, projections, half-circles, or segments of circles. In such cases the 
rules for the measurement of the area of circles, segments, triangles, &c., must 
be used. By means of these, and by dividing the room into several parts, as 
it were, so as to measure first one and then another, no difficulty will be felt. 
After the room has been measured, recesses containing air should be measured 
and added to the amount of cubic space, and on the other hand, solid projec- 
tions, and solid masses of furniture, cupboards, &c., must be measured, and 
their cubic contents (which take the place of air), deducted from the cubic 
space already measured. The bedding also occupies a certain amount of space ; 
a soldier's hospital mattress, pillow, three blankets, one coverlet, and two 
sheets, will occupy about 10 cubic feet. It is seldom necessary to make 
any deduction for tables, chairs, and iron bedsteads, or small boxes ; it is a re- 
finement to do this, or to reduce the temperature of the air to standard tem- 
perature, as is sometimes done. 

A deduction must be made, however, for the bodies of persons living in the 
room ; a man of average size takes the place of about 2 J to 4 cubic feet of air 
(say 3 for the average). 

In linear measurement, it is always convenient to measure in feet and deci- 
mals of a foot, and not in feet and inches. If square inches are measured, 
they may be turned into square feet by multiplying by '007. 

12 



132 



AIR. 



EULES Area or Superficies. 



Area of circle, 

> 

Circumference of circle, 
Diameter of circle, 

Area of ellipse, 

Circumference of ellipse, 
Area of rectangle, 
Area of parallelogram, 
Area of Trapezium, 




D 2 x -7854. 
C 2 x -08. 
D x 3-1416. 
C -? 3-1416. 

( Multiply the product of the 
{ two diameters by -7854. 
( Half sum of the two diame- 
\ ters by 3-1416. 
: Multiply two sides. 

( Multiply a side by its width 
" ( on the square. 

Multiply J sum of the two 
perpendiculars by the dia- 
gonal on which they fall ; 
or 



Fig. 21. 




Fig. 22. 



Area of trapezoid, 



Fig. 23. 



Area of triangle, 




Fig. 24. 
Area of segment of circle, 




Divide into two triangles 
in the most convenient 
manner, calculate the 
areas, and take the sum. 



Take J the sum of the 
parallel sides and multi- 
ply by the distance be- 
tween them. 



Base 
Height x 



x 4 height, or 
base. 



= To of product of chord 
and height add the cube 
of the height divided by 
twice the chord 



Fig. 25. 2 Ch 

or calculate by equidistant ordinates. Divide the base into any number of 
even equidistant parts, and measure the height of each ordinate. 






EXAMINATION OF AIR. 133 

Take sum of first and last ordinates, = A 
,, all the even ordinates, = B 

all the uneven ordinates, = C 

(except the first and last). 
Add together, A 

4B 
2C 

and divide by 3. Multiply product by the common distance between the 
ordinates. 

Cubic Capacity of a Cube. Multiply the three dimensions; length, 
breadth, and height. 

Cubic Capacity of a Cone or Pyramid. Area of base x ^ height. 
Cubic Capacity of a Cylinder. Area of base x height. 
Cubic Capacity of a Parallelopiped. Multiply area of one side by the per- 
pendicular let fall on it. 

Cubic Capacity of a Dome. Two-thirds of the product of the area of the 
base multiplied by the height (area of base x height x ). 
Cubic Capacity of a Sphere. D 3 x -5236. 

The cubic capacity of a bell-tent may be taken as that of a cone. 
The cubic capacity of an hospital marquee must be got by dividing the 
marquee into several parts 1st, into body ; and 2d, roof: 

1. Body, as a solid rectangle, with a half cylinder at each end. 

2. Roof, solid triangle, and two half cones. 

The total number of cubic feet, with additions and deductions all made, 
must then be divided by the number of persons living in the room ; the result 
is the cubic space per head. 



SECTION II. 
MOVEMENT OF AIR IN THE ROOM. 

The direction of movement must first be determined, and then its rate. 

SUB-SECTION I. DIRECTION OF MOVEMENT. 

First enumerate the various openings in the room doors, windows, chim- 
ney, special openings, and tubes and consider which is likely to be the 
direction of movement, and whether there is a possibility of thorough move- 
ment of the air. Then, if it is not necessary to consider further any move- 
ment through open doors or windows, close all these, and examine the 
movement through the other openings. This is best done by smoke disengaged 
from smouldering cotton-velvet, and less perfectly by small balloons, light 
pieces of paper, feathers, &c. The flame of a candle, which is often used, is 
only moved by strong currents. It may be generally taken for granted that 
one-half the openings in a room will admit fresh air, and half will be outlets. 
But this is not invariable, as a strong outlet, like a chimney, may draw air 
through an inlet of far greater area than itself, or may draw it through a much 
smaller area, with an increased rapidity. 

1 SUB-SECTION II. RATE OF MOVEMENT. 

The direction being known, it is only necessary to measure the discharge 
through the outlets, as a corresponding quantity of fresh air must enter. 



134 AIR, 

By the Anemometer. This is best done by an anemometer, of which there 
are several in the market. The one commonly used is that invented by Combes 
in 1838 ; four little sails, driven by the moving air, turn an axis with an endless 
screw, which itself turns some small toothed wheels, which indicate the num- 
ber of revolutions df the axis, and consequently the space traversed by the 
sails in a given time, say one minute. M. Neumann, of Paris, has modified 
this anemometer by omitting most of the wheels, and introducing a delicate 
watchmaker's spring, which opposes the force of the wind, and when it equals 
it, brings the sails to a stand-still. By a careful graduation (which must be 
done for each instrument), the rate per second is determined, and is indicated 
by a small dial and index. 

Mr Casella, of Hatton Garden, has, at my suggestion, modified and improved 
this instrument, and has adapted it to English measures. A very beautiful 
instrument is thus available at a comparatively IOAV price, by which the move- 
ment of air can be measured very readily. 

The anemometer is thus used : Being set at the zero point, it is placed in 
the current of air ; if it is placed in a tube or shaft, it should be put well in, 
but not quite in the centre, as the central velocity is always greater than that 
of the side ; a point about two-fifths from the sides of the tube will give 
the mean velocity. As soon as the sails stop rotating, or at a given time if 
Casella's instrument be used, the instrument is removed, and the movement 
per second or per minute, or in the time noted, is given by the dial. If this 
linear discharge is multiplied by the section-area of the tube or opening 
(expressed in feet or decimals of a foot), the cubic discharge is obtained. If 
the current varies in intensity, the movement should be taken several times, 
and the mean calculated ; and if the tube is so small that the sails approach 
closely to the circumference, the results cannot be depended on. If placed at 
the mouth of a tube, it often indicates a much feebler current than really 
exists in the tube. 

The cubic discharge per second being known, the amount per hour is got 
by multiplying by 3600, and this, divided by the number of men in the room, 
gives the discharge per head for that particular aperture. 

An anemometer on a larger scale is fixed in some of the large outlets of the 
Paris hospitals, showing the movement at every moment by means of an index 
and dial.* 

By the Manometer. Dr Sanderson has made an ingenious alteration of a 
manometer described by Peclet, which can also be employed to measure the 
pressure, and .by calculation the velocity, of the air. The current of air is 
allowed to impinge on a surface of water, and the height to which the water is 
driven up a tube of known inclination and size gives at once a measure of force. 
But, as necessitating a little calculation, this instrument is less useful than the 
anemometer, though it is adapted for cases where the anemometer cannot be 
used, as it may be connected by a long tube with a distant room, and probably 
would be well fitted to measure constantly the velocity in an extraction shaft. 

By Calculation. Supposing the external air is tranquil, and that the only 
cause of movement is the unequal weights of the external colder and the in- 
ternal warmer air, the amount of discharge may be approximately obtained by 
the law of Montgolfier described in the chapter on VENTILATION. There is a 
fallacy, however, as the amount of friction can never be precisely known. 
Still, as an approximation, and in the absence of an anemometer, the rule is 
useful ; and I have therefore calculated a table, as follows. . 

On testing this table, however, by the anemometer, I have found it give 



Peclet De la Chaleur, t. i. p. 171, where the description will be found. 



EXAMINATION OF Alii. 



135 



too much when the tubes are long, on account of the great friction, and I 
would therefore advise the further deduction of Jth when the shaft or tube is 
long, and is at the same time of small diameter. If the tube has many angles, 
or is greatly curved, this table is too imperfect to be used. 



TABLE to show the Discharge of Air in linear feet per minute. Calculated from 
Montgolfier's formula ; the expansion of air being taken as 0*002 for each 
degree Fahrenheit, and one-fourth being deducted for friction. (Hound 
numbers have been taken.} 



II 


DIFFERENCE BETWEEN INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL TEMPERATURE. 


p 


3 1 4 1 5 


6 


7 


8 


9 10 


11 


12 


1314 


15 


16 


17 


18 


19 


20 


21 


22 


23 


24 


25 


30 


10 


88102|ll4 


125 


135 


144 


153 161 


109 


176 


183 190 


197 


204 


210 


216 


222 


228 


233 


239 


244 


24: 


254 


279 


11 


92107 


119 


131 


141 


151 


160 169 


177 


185 


192 200 


207 


213 


220 


226 


233 


239 


245 


250 


250 


261 


267 


292 


12 


96111 


12.3 


136 


147 


158 


167 


176 


185 


193 


201 


209 


210 


223 


230 


237 


243 


249 


255 


261 


207 


27o 


279 


805 


13 


100116130 


140 


153 


164 


174 


183 


192 


201 


209 


217 


225 


232 


23!) 


246 


253 


259 


260 


272 


278 


284 


290 


;,l* 


14 


104120135 


147 


159 


170 


181 


190 


200 


209 


217 


225 


233 


241 


248 


255 


202 


209 


276 


282 


289 


2!r 


301 


330 


15 


108125139 


153 


165 


176 


187 


197 


207 


216 


223 


23:3 


241 


21! I 


257 


264 


272 


279 


2SO 


292 


209 


30;- 


312 


341 


16 


111129144 


158 


170 


182 


193 


204 


21:; 


223 232 


241 


249 257 


265 


2731281 


288 


295 


302 


309 


315 


322 


353 


17 


115 133 148 162 


176 


188 199 


210 220 


230 239 


248 


257 265 


274 


282289 


297 


304 


311 


318 


32." 


J32 


863 


18 


118|136 153 167 


181 


193 205 


216 226 237 246 


255 


264 


21", 


282 


290298 


305 


313 


320 


327 


335 


342 


374 


19 


121 


140157172 


186 


198 


210 


222 


233 


243 253 


202 


272 281 


289 


298306 


314 


321 


329 


336 


344 


351 


384 


20 


125 


144161176 


190 


204 


216 228 


239 249 259 


20!) 


279 288 


297 


305314 


322 


330 


338 


345 


:!5.'3 


360 


394 


il 


128 


147 


165181 


195 


20!) 


221 233 


245 255 266 


276 


286 295 


304 


313321 


330 


M38 


346 


354 


;;oi 


369 


40-1 


23 


131 


151 


169 185 


200 


214 


226 


239 


250 261 272 


282 


292 


:io2 


311 


320329 


338 


346 


354 


362 370 


378 


414 


2c 


134 


154 


173 189 


204 


218 


232244 


256 


267 278 


289 


299 309 


318 


327336 


345 


354 


302 


370 378 


386 


42-", 


24 


136 


158'l76 193 


209 


22:3 


237 


249 


201 


273 


2,84 


295 


3051315 


325 


335 '344 


353 


301 


370 


378 386 


394 432 


25 


139 


161 


180 197 


213 


227 


241 


254 


267 


279 


290 


301 


312 322 


;;:!2 


342 351 


360 


:309 


378 


386 


394 


402441 


26 


142 


164 


183 '201 


217 


232 


246 259 


272 


284 '296 


307 


318328 


338 


348 


358 


367 


376 


385 


394(402 


410450 


27 


145 


167 


187205 


221 


237 


251 264 


277 


290 302 


313 


324335 


.'345 


!55 


365 


374 


383 


392 


401 410 


418458 


28 


147 


170 


190207 


22,3 


241 


255 269 


282 


295 307 


319 


330341 


351 


361 


371 


381 


390 


399 


408417 


426467 


29 
30 
31 


150 
153 
155 


173 
176 
179 


194 212 229 
197)216 233 
200J219 237 


245 
249 
253 


260 

264 

269 


274 

279 

2,8:! 


287 
292 
297 


300312324 
305318330 
310 323 335 


335347 
341353 

347358 


357 
303 
309 


308 
374 
J80 


378 
;!84 
391 


388 
'394 
401 


397 
404 
411 


407 
414 

420 


416425 
423432 
430439 


433475 
441483 
448491 


32 


158 


182204223 


241 


2.37 


273 


288 


302 


315 


328 


341 


353364 


375 


380 


397 


407 


417 


427 


437446 


455J499 


33 
34 
35 
36 


160 
162 
165 

167 


185 

188 
190 
193 


207 
210 
213 
216 


220 
230 
233 
23(3 


245 261 

248265 
252 269 
255 273 


277 

282 
2SO 
290 


292 
297 
301 
305 


307 
311 
316 
320 


320 333 
325 338 
3301343 
334 348 


346 
351 
356 
;!(!! 


358 

303 
369 
374 


370 
375 
3,81 
386 


381 

x87 
393 

:!!;8 


392 
398 
404 
410 


403 
409 
415 
421 


414 
420 
420 
432 


424 

4:30 
4:30 
142 


434 443 453 

440450460 
447457467 
453 463 473 


402 
409 
476 

183 


500 

% 

52!i 


37 


170 


196 


219 


240 


259 277 


294 


310 


325 339 


353 366 379 


392 404 


415 


427 


438448 


459 


470480 


490 


53(; 


38 


172 


198 


222 


243 


262 


281 


298 


314 


329 


341 


358 


3711384 


397 


401) 


421 


432 


444 


454 


465 


476486 


490 


543 


39 


174 


201 


22:, 


210 


200 


284 


!()2 


318 


333 


348 


:302 


376 389 


402 


414 


420 


438 


450 


401 


471 


482 492 


508 


551 


40 


176 


204 


228 


24!) 


209 


288 


10.3 


322 


33,8 


868 


307 


381 


394 


407 


120 


432 


444 


455 


467 


477 


488 499 


509 


558 


45 


187 


216 


241 


264 


280 


305 


324 


341 


358 


374 


389 


404 


418 


432 


445 


458 


471 


183 


495 


50(3 


518529 


540 


391 


50 


197 


228 


254 


279 


801 


322 


341 


300 


377 


394 


401 


420 


441 


455 


409 


183 


490 


309 


522 


584 


546 


558 


509 


623 




3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


10 


11 


12 


13 


14 


15 


16 


17 


18 


19 


20 


21 


22 


23 


24 


25 


30 



7o use the table, determine the height of the warm column of air from the point of entrance to 
thepoint of discharge. Ascertain the difference between its temperature and that of the external 
air. Take out number from table, and multiply by the section-area of the discharge-tube 
or opening, in feet or decimals of a foot. The result is the discharge in cubic feet per minute, 
mutiply by 60 result, discharge per hour. Example. Height of column 32 feet ; difference of 

Looking in the table, we find opposite 
That would be for an area of 1 square foot. 



temperature between internal and external air, 17 deg. 
to 52 and under 17, 375 feet. 



f 375 

75 

But supposing our air opening to be only | 
I of a foot, we must multiply 375 by f . { 1875 
ir 0-75 of afoot. 2625 




Therefore we get 281 feet (per 
minute), multiplied by 60 = 16,860 
feet per hour. 



136 Alii. 

If the movement of the external air influences the movement in the room, 
as when the wind blows through openings, calculation is useless, and the ane- 
mometer only can be depended on. 



SECTION III. 
EXAMINATION OF THE AIR. 

SUB-SECTION I. BY THE SENSES. 

Many impurities are quite imperceptible to smell, but it so happens that 
animal organic matters, whether arising in respiration or in disease, have, for 
the most part, a peculiar foetid smell, which is very perceptible to those trained 
to observe it when they enter a room from the open air. This is, in fact, a most 
delicate, as well as a ready way of detecting such foetid impurities, and, with a 
little trouble, the sense of smell may be cultivated to the point of extreme 
acuteness. Only, it must be remembered, that in a short time the impression 
is lost, and is not at once regained even in the open air. 

As the evidence of the senses, however practically useful, is always liable to 
be challenged, a more thorough examination of the air must in many cases be 
made. 

SUB-SECTION II. MICROSCOPICAL AND CHEMICAL EXAMINATION. 

The points which can be easily examined at the present day are 

1. The existence and nature of suspended matters. 

2. The amount of organic matter, as estimated by permangaiate of 

potash. 

3. The amount of carbonic acid. 

4. The amount of watery vapour. 

5. The presence of ammonia and sulphuretted hydrogen. 

1. Suspended Substances. The aeroscope invented by Pouchet offers an easy 
mode of examining the suspended matters in air. Air is drawn, by means of 
an aspirator, through a funnel, the end of which is brought to a fine point, 
immediately below which is placed a slip of glass moistened with glyceriie. 
The end of the funnel and glass are enclosed in a little air-tight chamber, frcjm 
which a small glass tube passes up, and is connected by means of india-rubljer 
tubing with an aspirator. As the water runs out the air can only pass into 
the aspirator through the funnel, and, as it does so, any solid particles carrM 
down with the current impinge on and are arrested by the glycerine, aid 
can be afterwards examined by the microscope. An aspirator can be made 
for a few shillings ; a square tin vessel with a tap below, and a small opening 
above to receive the india-rubber tube, is all that is necessary. The capacity 
of the aspirator is told by filling it with water, at a temperature of 62 Eahr., 
and then letting the water run out into a measured vessel. If an ounce 
measure is used, the number of ounces, multiplied by 1-733, will give the ea- 
pacity in cubic inches, and dividing by 1 728, will bring the same into cubic feat. 

A still better plan is by drawing the air through a solution of pure water, 
or permanganate of potash. All the solid particles are retained at the bottan 
of the vessel, and can be afterwards microscopically examined. 

2. Organic Matter. This can be determined as follows. A solution of per- 
manganate of potash, which has been graduated with oxalic acid in the man- 
ner described in the chapter on the mode of determining the organic matter 
in water is taken, and diluted to such an extent as that 100 C.C. shall coa- 



EXAMINATION OF AIR. 137 

tain O'OOOl grammes of permanganate, or any known small quantity .which 
gives a perceptible colour to the water ; the air is drawn through this slowly 
by an aspirator ; the number of times the aspirator is emptied and filled being 
known, the number of cubic feet drawn through the water is also known. 
The process is over when the colour has disappeared. As the quantitative 
relations of the organic matter of air and permanganate of potash are not yet 
accurately known, the result should be simply noted, that O'OOOl grammes of 
permanganate required so many cubic feet of air for complete decolorisation. 
The fallacy of this process is that tarry matters derived from combustion, sul- 
phuretted hydrogen, sulphurous acid, and other matters, act on the permanga- 
nate ; however, no other process has been yet proposed which is equal to it. 

The air may also be drawn through tubes cooled by a freezing mixture ; the 
water of the air and the organic matter condense together (Southwood Smith). 

3. Carbonic Acid. For our purpose the method proposed by Pettenkofer is 
the best. A vessel is taken capable of holding from half a gallon to 1 J gallons. 
The capacity is determined by filling it with water at 62 Fahr., and by 
measuring the contents by means of a litre or ounce measure (1 oz. = 1*733 
cubic inches). The vessel is thoroughly dried, and then filled with the air to 
be examined, which is most readily done by pumping in the air with a bellows. 
When this is done 45 C.C. of clear lime or baryta water are put in, and the 
mouth is closed with an india-rubber cap. The vessel is agitated, so that the 
lime-water may run over the sides, and then is left to stand for not less than 
six or eight hours, and not more than twenty-four hours. The carbonic acid 
is absorbed by the lime or baryta water, and consequently the causticity of 
these fluids is, pro tanto, lessened. If the causticity of the lime or baryta is 
known before and after it has. been placed in the vessel, the difference will give 
the amount of lime or baryta which has become united with carbonic acid. 

The causticity of lime is determined by means of a solution of crystallised 
oxalic acid. If 2*25 grammes of crystallised (0 + 3Aq) are dissolved in 
1 litre of water, 1 C.C. will exactly neutralise 1 milligramme ('001 gramme) 
of lime ; 30 C.C. of lime water are taken, and exactly neutralised ; good tur- 
meric paper is the best plan for determining the exact point of neutralisation, 
and the margin of the drop gives the most delicate indication. The amount 
of lime in the 30 C.C. is then equal to the number of C.C. of oxalic acid used ; 
it is always somewhere between 34 and 39 milligrammes. 

After the lime has absorbed the carbonic acid of the air in the vessel, 30 C.C. 
of the solution are taken out, and neutralised by oxalic acid ; the difference be- 
tween the first and second operations is increased by one-half (to account for the 
15 C.C. left in the vessel, 45 being always put in to allow 30 to be taken out). 
This gives the amount of lime which has combined with carbonic acid, and 
the amount of the latter is known by simply calculating according to the 
atomic weights, and then converting weight into measure. This is done in 
one sum by multiplying by -39521. The capacity of the vessel being known, 
the amount of C0 2 is calculated for 1000 volumes by simple rule of three. 
From the capacity 45 C.C. must be deducted, to account for the lime-water 
put in. 

A correction must be also made for temperature. The standard temperature 
being 62, if the air of the room which is examined be below this, the quan- 
tity of air actually acted upon will necessarily be greater from condensation 
than would have been the case had the air been warmer ; and conversely, if 
the temperature be higher than 62, a less quantity of air must have been 
operated on than would have been the case had the air been at the lower 
temperature of 62. 

This error is corrected by multiplying '0020361 (the co-efficient of expan- 



138 AIE. 

sion of air for 1 Fahr.) by the difference between 62 and the observed tem- 
perature, and then by the capacity of the vessel, and adding the product to 
the capacity if the temperature be below 62, and subtracting it if it be 
above 62. 

A correction for pressure is not necessary, unless the place of observation 
be much removed from sea-level ; in that case, the barometer must be 
observed, and a rule of three stated. 

As standard height ) ( observed height ) 
ofbar(= 30 in.) / : \ of bar ( 

Baryta water may be used instead of lime water, but it must be free from 
traces of potash or soda. 

4. Watery Vapour. The hygrometric condition of the air is known in 
various ways, especially by the dry and wet bulbs, as explained in the chapter 
on METEOROLOGY. The hair hygrometer is a very useful instrument for 
this purpose, as it marks the degree of humidity much more quickly than the 
dry and wet bulbs, and can be used to give rapidly the different degrees of 
humidity in parts of the same room. 

5. Ammonia is determined by Nessler's test (see chapter on WATER) ; a 
known quantity of air is drawn through by the aspirator, and the weight of 
the precipitate determined ; then by rule of three : 

As 559 : 17 : : weight of process : x. 

The mere presence of ammonia may be also detected by logwood paper. 
Tincture of logwood is evaporated to dryness, and the residue dissolved in 
ether. Strips of filtering paper are soaked in it ; ammonia gives a brownish 
colour. Sulphuretted hydrogen is best detected by exposing strips of blotting 
paper dipped in a solution of subacetate of lead. Sulphide of ammonia is de- 
tected by paper dipped in the solution of nitroprusside of sodium. 



SECTION IV. 
SCHEME FOE THE APPLICATION OF THE FOREGOING RULES. 

The ventilation of a certain room being about to be examined, enter it after 
being at least fifteen minutes in the open air, and notice if there is any smell. 
Measure the cubic space, then consider the possible sources of entrance and 
exit of air ; if there are only doors and windows, notice the distance between 
them, how they open, on what external place they open ; whether there is 
free passage of air from side to side ; whether it is likely the air will be pro- 
perly distributed. On all these points an opinion is soon arrived at. If there 
are other openings, measure them all carefully, so as to get their superficies ; 
the chimney must be measured at its throat or smallest part. Determine then 
the direction of movement of air through these openings by smoke, noting 
the apparent rapidity. The doors and windows should be closed. When 
the inlets have been discovered, consider whether the air is drawn from a pure 
external source, and whether there is proper distribution in the room. Then 
measure the amount of movement in the outlets with an anemometer, or calcu- 
late by the table if it seems safe to do so. 

If the ventilation of the room is influenced by the wind, the horizontal 
movement of the external air should be determined by Robinson's anemometer, 
which is now supplied to many military stations. 

Then proceed to the microscopical and chemical examination, if this is con- 
sidered desirable, as it will frequently be. 




CHAPTER V. 
FOOD. 

SECTION I. 
GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF DIET. 

THE doctrines held at present by most physiologists on the subject of diet* 
may be expressed in the briefest way, as follows : 

Following the original deduction of Prout, it is believed, that for perfect 
nutrition, certain quantities of four great classes of aliments must be taken, 
viz. : 

1. Nitrogenous substances or albuminates (including albumen, fibrin, 
casein, hasmatoglobulin, legumen, gluten, &c.), which all contain also sulphur 
and phosphorus. 

2. Fatty substances (including all animal and vegetable oils). 

3. Carbo-hydrates (including all starches, sugar, pectin, and allied sub- 
stances ; and, 

4. Salts (potash, soda, magnesia, lime, iron, chlorine, phosphoric acid, 
fluorine, and water). 

Three of these classes are indispensable, viz., albuminates, fat, and salts, 
with water, and, as Ludwig remarks, the carbo-hydrates are sought after so 
eagerly, and are so universally taken, that (independent of physiological con- 
siderations) it is highly probable no diet can be considered perfect without 
them. 

These classes are not convertible ; fat and starch serve different purposes, 
and must not be confounded, or classed together under such heads as carboni- 
ferous or respiratory. In addition to these four great classes, there are a 
number of so-called accessory foods or condiments which are non-essential, 
but are useful in giving flavour and aiding digestion. 

1. The albuminates nourish all the tissues which give rise to mechanical 
force of any kind, and, probably, also those connected with mental action. 
The mechanical force evinced by the human machine (either in carrying on 
its internal movements, or in acting on external objects) is probably propor- 
tioned to the amount of albuminates which can be digested, absorbed, and 
properly applied in nutrition, t The means of increasing force by augmenting 
the absolute supply of albuminates, i.e., of increasing digestive power in the 

* I need hardly say that a treatise on hygiene should not be one on diet ; hygiene is only the 
application of the principles of diet to the improvement and preservation of health. But I have 
been obliged to go a little more into diet than would otherwise be necessary, as many books 
are not accessible to army medical officers. 

f See on this subject Dr Lyon Playfair's Lecture " On the Food of Man in Relation to his 
Useful Work." Edinburgh, 1865. 



140 FOOD. 

stomach and intestines, formative power in the nitrogenous tissues, and elimi- 
nating processes in the after stages, is one of the highest problems in physio- 
logy. All the three parts of the process have to be balanced, so that one 
shall equal the other, otherwise health is destroyed. It is only when the 
great processes of digestion, respiration, and elimination are in proper co- 
relation, that we have the highest development of force which the individual 
can manifest. Digestion may be imperfect, or, being perfect, the tissues may 
not be able to apply the material, or, applying it, the disintegrating processes 
may be insufficient. Hence, we may have half-digested food in the stomach 
and intestines producing irritation;* or an excess of albuminous matters, 
which the tissues cannot appropriate, in the blood, or imperfectly oxidised 
products of disintegration, falling short of the two substances which are the 
normal ends of disintegration, urea and carbonic acid. And there can be no 
doubt that many of the diseases which receive no, or an imperfect, nosological 
name are of this description. The means of increasing the proper adaptation 
of albuminates must be chiefly sought by increasing the amount of the other 
substances which form parts of the nitrogenous tissues, especially fats and 
some salts, but principally by increasing the supply of oxygen t by exercise, 
which augments, at the same time, absorption of oxygen, elimination of car- 
bon, and, in a less degree, of nitrogen, and the circulation of the blood. Or 
indirectly, it may be obtained by lessening the supply of starches, which ap- 
propriate the oxygen, and thereby, to some extent, save the albuminous tis- 
sues and the fats from disintegration. The precise limit of the digestion and 
absorption of albuminates in men is not yet known, and must evidently be 
aifected by various circumstances ; not only by the kind and cooking of the 
albuminates, but by the movement of the intestines, the rapidity of the circu- 
lation, and the supply of oxygen. Ludwig states that a pound of albumen can- 
not be absorbed, but Hammond's experiments give a higher amount ; in one 
experiment he actually absorbed in twenty-four hours 2 7 '8 ounces of albumen 
(= 1933 grains of nitrogen). 

The lessening of the supply of albuminates leads to a decline of force ; and 
if the supply is entirely cut off, the decline is very rapid. It affects the 
muscular system first and chiefly (both the voluntary and involuntary, includ- 
ing the heart), and at a much later date, the mental powers. This result may, 
to a certain extent, be delayed by an increase in the supply of fats and 
starches, which, by absorbing oxygen, limit the disintegration ; of course, by 
perfect rest, the loss of nitrogenous substances may also be delayed, so that, 
if, under any circumstances, the supply of nitrogenous substance falls short, 
the structure of the body may be kept in a healthy state for a longer time 
than would otherwise be the case, by a large supply of non-nitrogenous sub- 
stances, and by rest. And these principles can be applied in treatment, so 
that the albuminous tissues can be, to a certain extent, brought under our 
control by a judicious adaptation of diet and exercise alone, without the em- 
ployment of drugs. The use of drugs, however, is a point of the greatest in- 
terest and importance, especially in aiding the two ends of the scale primary 
digestion and elimination. 

The nitrogenous aliments also contribute to animal heat, by oxidation, 
after they have formed parts of tissues ; but probably not before, as, so 
far, analyses do not show any higher oxidation of muscular and nervous sub- 

* The faeces then contain a large amount of nitrogen. This is more common after vegetable 
than animal albuminates, as the latter seem more easily digested, though, even in the dog, 
there is a limit. 

f There are three factors in nutrition, viz., the tissue which attracts the albuminate ; the 
albuminate itself carried in the blood to the tissue ; and the oxygen which, by removing the 
\ised material, enables the tissue to renovate itself by attracting more nutritive supply. 



GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF DIET. 141 

stances over blood, albumen, or the alimentary principles. The amount of oxi- 
dation is not, however, great ; and it is usually supposed that if nitrogenous 
substances are given alone, a much larger supply must be taken to supply 
animal heat. 

2. The fatty aliments are, like the nitrogenous, both plastic and heat-giving. 
They are essential to the formation of both muscular and nervous tissues, 
especially the latter ; and it is remarkable how much carbonic acid, derived, 
it is believed, principally from fat, is given off during muscular action. Like 
the nitrogenous substances, they are essential to the production of mechanical 
force, either directly, or, perhaps, more probably by aiding the formation 
of tissue ; and it is curious to observe how intimately connected the nitro- 
genous and fatty substances are in many of the foods which have come 
into most general use. 

When it is wished to augment mechanical force, the fats must be augmented 
like the albuminates. Their digestion and absorption is not so difficult as in 
the case of the nitrogenous substances, and their elimination is easier, since, 
if not got rid of by the formation of carbonic acid, they are stored up in the 
body, and form a collection for future use. The animal fats appear easier of 
absorption than the vegetable. Berthe * found that in addition to the fat in 
his ordinary diet, he could absorb 30 grammes, or 1*059 ounces of cod-liver 
oil, butter, or other animal oil ; in some instances If ounces were absorbed. 
Of vegetable oils only 20 grammes, or 0'7 ounces, were absorbed. When, 
in experiments with cod-liver oil 40 grammes were taken, 31 '5 were ab- 
sorbed, 8 '5 passed by the bowels ; when 60 grammes were taken, 48 were 
absorbed and 12 passed. But when he took 60 grammes daily, the amount 
of fat in the fa3ces gradually increased, until 50 grammes daily passed off in 
that way. In the dog, however, Bischoff and Voit found that 250 and 300 
grammes (8 '8 and 10*5 ounces) of butter were easily absorbed. During the 
digestion of the fats they are, probably, in part decomposed; and the fatty acids, 
like the acids derived from the starch, must, to a certain extent, antagonise 
the introduction of alkali in the food. The relative proportion of fat to al- 
buminates in the best diet (viz., that which is most easily digested, and, at 
the same time, produces the greatest mechanical force), appears to be as 1 to 
2, or as 1J to 2. 

3. The starches and sugars are supposed to be entirely heat-giving, and not 
formative (respiratory, and not plastic) ; but so great is the obscurity of this 
part of physiology, that it is impossible to be quite certain of this. It seems 
undoubted that they are more easily attacked by oxygen than either the albu- 
minates or the fats, and, therefore, that they save these constituents from too 
rapid disintegration. Whether the starches actually form fat in the human 
body is still doubtful.t By a judicious employment of them, the elimin- 
ation, and perhaps the formation, of the albuminates and fatty tissues can 
be modified ; and it is evident that this principle will enter largely into the 
treatment of disease. : 

The constant introduction of an excess of alkali in the food, and the con- 
stant production of acid from the food, cause a singular alternation of acid 
and alkaline fluids in the body. This is probably especially connected with 
the metamorphosis of starch, which causes the production of lactic acid. Lactic 
acid, in the presence of albumen and certain salts, seems to have the power of 
decomposing salts containing stronger acids than itself; then being absorbed 

* Luclwig's Physio, band ii. p. 668. 

t In his last edition Ludwig seems to admit that they will form fat. Phys. des Menschen, 
band ii. p. 603. 

J This has long been known, and, to some extent, practically employed. 



142 FOOD. 

from the place where it has aided in setting free some potent acid, and carried 
away, the lactate of the alkali is decomposed, a carbonate is formed, and the 
alkalinity of the body is again restored. The exact amount of acid produced 
in the body with and without starch has not, I believe, been at present de- 
termined. 

If the starch foods thus greatly influence the acidity of the body, we can 
perceive another reason why they should enter into the composition of a 
perfect diet. Their relative amount to nitrogenous substances in the best 
diets is as 2J or 3J to 1. 

4. The salts and water are as essential as the nitrogenous substances. Lime, 
chiefly in the form of phosphate, is absent from no tissue ; and there is 
reason to think no cell growth can go on without it ; certainly, in morbid 
growths which are overgrown, and in rapidly growing cells, it is in large 
amount. 

Whether magnesia is equally important for cell growth and tissue life is 
less certain. Both lime and magnesia are essential for bone growth and 
repair; and there can be little doubt that the judicious abstraction or 
employment of these will form an important part in the treatment of bone 
diseases. 

Potash and soda, in the forms of phosphates and chlorides, are equally im- 
portant, and would seem to be especially concerned in the molecular currents ; 
forming parts of almost all tissues, they are less fixed, so to speak, than the 
magnesian and lime" salts. It is also now certain, that the two alkalies do 
not replace each other, and have a different distribution ; and it is so far 
observable, that the potash seems to be the alkali for the formed tissues, such 
as the blood cells or muscular fibre ; while the soda salts are more largely 
contained in the intercellular fluids which bathe or encircle the tissues. The 
employment of these two alkalies in medicine is great, and will no doubt be 
based hereafter on more certain principles than we now possess. 

The chlorine and phosphoric acid have also very peculiar properties ; the 
former apparently being easily set free, and then giving a very strong acid, 
which has a special action on albuminates, and the latter having remarkable 
combining proportions with alkalies. Both are furnished in almost all food ; 
the chlorides of sodium also separately. Carbonic acid is both introduced and 
made in the system, and probably serves many uses. Iron is, of course, also 
essential for certain tissues, and in small quantity is found almost in every 
tissue, and in every food. The sulphur and phosphorus of the tissues appear 
to enter especially as such with the albuminates. 

Some salts, especially those which form carbonates in the system, such as 
the lactates, tartrates, citrates, and acetates, give the alkalinity to the system 
which seems so necessary to the integrity of the molecular currents. The 
state of malnutrition, which in its highest degree we call scurvy, appears to 
follow inevitably on their absence ; and as they exist chiefly in fresh vege- 
tables, it is a well-known rule of dietetics to supply these with great care, 
though their nutritive power otherwise is small. 

The amount of absorption of the salts varies evidently in different persons ; 
about 30 grammes, or 463 grains, of chloride of sodium can be absorbed by 
most persons ; but if a larger quantity be taken, the excess usually appears in 
the faeces. Iron is evidently absorbed in small amount. 

Such, then, being the general principles of diet, the points to be considered 
in a complete treatise on hygiene would be 

1. The quantity of the different classes required for persons of different 
sexes and ages, during and after the period of growth and pregnancy, and 
under all ordinary conditions of life and climate. 






THE FOOD OF THE SOLDIEU. 143 

2. The determination of the best articles of food in each class, and the 
quality of those substances ; and whether or not they are fit for food, and are 
in any way altered or falsified. 

3. Their digestibility, and the best mode of cooking them, so that they may 
be supplied in the best form. 

Digestibility depends on bulk, cohesion, due admixture, and variety. 
Cooking is intended especially to lessen cohesion, and to soften tissues, so that 
they may be broken up ; and to add flavour, which may aid appetite and 
digestion. 

When these things have been determined, all other points depend on the 
person taking the food. He can aid nutrition by proper mastication, and by 
such habits and customs as are known to have a good effect on the changes of 
tissue. 

The object of this work prevents so large a treatment of this subject, and 1 
must therefore consider only those substances which form part of the food of 
the soldier ; but, as far as is possible, I shall do it in the above order. 

SECTION II. 
THE FOOD OF THE SOLDIEE ARMY REGULATIONS. 

The Army Medical Regulations place the food both of the healthy and sick 
soldier under the control of the medical officer. He is directed to ascertain 
that the rations of the healthy men are good, and that the cooking is properly 
performed (Regulations, pp. 29, 30, 42, 51, 79) ; the amount of food for the 
sick is expressly fixed (p. 59). On taking the field, the principal medical 
officer is ordered to advise on the subject of rations, as well as on all other 
points affecting the health of the troops. It will thus be seen that a -great 
responsibility has been thrown on the Medical Department, and that its 
members will be called upon to give opinions on the quantity of all kinds of 
food supplied to soldiers ; the composition of diet ; on the quality and adul- 
teration of the different articles ; and on their cooking and preparation. 

QUANTITY AND COMPOSITION OF FOOD FOR HEALTHY MEN OF THE SOLDIERS' 
AGE (20 TO 40). 

Although it is not possible to determine d priori in any particular person 
how much food is sufficient for complete manifestation of his possible power, 
it is of importance to fix the average amount, as in the Army and Navy fixed 
quantities of food, or rations, must evidently be issued ; and their sufficiency 
or otherwise can only be known by reference to average quantities. In differ- 
ent cases the amount of food required varies according to 1 . Activity of the 
bodily and mental functions ; 2. The digestibility of the food ; 3. The size of 
the body, though this is probably a matter of less moment ; 4. The composi- 
tion of the body, whether chiefly bony, muscular, or fatty. 

In fixing the amount of a ration for a large body of men, it should satisfy 
the majority, and should err on the side of excess rather than defect. More 
evils result from under than over feeding. Even with a liberal ration there 
will always be found in a regiment of 1000 strong some for whom it is in- 
sufficient. 

A man of average size and activity will, under ordinary conditions of 
moderate work, take in twenty-four hours from ^th to ^th of his own weight 
in solid and liquid food. In this country he will take about 40 ounces (i.e. with 



144 FOOD. 

an average range of from 34 to 46 ounces) of so-called solid food (bread, 
meat, &c.), and from 50 to 80 ounces of water, making in all from 80 to 120 
ounces by weight of ingesta.* The ratio of the so-called solid to the liquid 
food varies greatly. In most cases it is 1 to 2, but in some only 1 to 1. 
Great bodily activity renders necessary a large increase in the solid, but seems 
to require a less increase in the liquid food. 

The so-called solid food contains a certain percentage of water ; if we elimi- 
nate this, and consider only the anhydrous or water-free food, we find the 
amount in twenty-four hours to be on an average for healthy men from 19 to 
25 ounces. Putting the case in this way, the average amount is then 
Water-free food, ..... 22 to 23 ounces. 
Water, ... .. 60 to 90 

The relative amount of the water-free food to water is usually as 1 to 4, or 
as 1 to 5. 

Assuming the average to be 23 water-free ounces daily, and the mean 
weight to be 150 Ib, the body receives y-J^-th of its own weight in water-free 
solids. The range in different persons is from ^ih. to y^-oth of the body 
weight. Each pound weight of the body receives about 0*15 ounces (range 
from O'l to 0'2 ounces) of water-free food, and 0'5 ounces by weight of water 
in twenty-four hours. But this amount clifTers in rest and in activity. 

The following table gives the average amount for men of mean height (5 
feet 6 to 5 feet 10) and weight (140 to 160 1>), under different conditions of 
activity : 

A man will take on an average, in twenty-four hours 



ounces avoir. ounces ' 

When nearly at rest, . . . . 18 -5 70 to 90 

When in moderate and usual exercise, 23 70 to 90 

Under great exertion, . 26 to 30 ( 80 to 10 

I or more. 

Undergoing enormous exertion, . . < 40 f 

These are all averages, and there is a wide range. From day to day a man 
takes different amounts. Much depends also on the kind and digestibility of 
food. A larger quantity of indigestible food is taken ; much is then lost by 
passing out undigested by the bowels. Of the water about f ths or -f-ths is 
taken as water, the rest is contained as water in the so-called solid food. 

It is most important to fully understand, that if more work is required from 
a man his food must be increased in proportion. If it is not, one of two 
results follows : the man ceases part of his work, and his usefulness as an 
agent of force lessens ; or he continues his work, but at the expense of his 
tissues ; his weight lessens and, at a certain point, which is not yet defined, 
all morbific causes (malaria, contagions, cold, &c.) begin to act upon him 
more easily. 

Amount of Nitrogen, Carbon, and Salts. 

The phenomena of nutrition are owing to the various chemical interchanges 
of nitrogen and carbon, with the concurrent influences of oxygen and hydrogen 
(chiefly, though not entirely, in the form of water) and of various salts. 

* In two of the most active men I have ever known, whose food and drink I determined very 
carefully, I found the total amount of solid and liquid food was ^\^ and ?*}$-<? of the body 
weight. 



QUANTITY OF FOOD. 145 

A man of mean height, weight, and activity, requires in twenty-four 
hours* 

Nitrogen, about .... 250 to 350 grains. 

Carbon, 3500 to 5000 

Salts, 400 

Viz. : 

Chlorine, 120 

Phosphoric acid, .... 50 

Potash, 40 

Soda, 170 

Iron, . . . ? 

Lime, > ? 

Magnesia, ..... ? 

Organic acids ? ? 

The amount of salts cannot be fixed at present ; the quantity of chlorine 
and phosphoric acid is probably near the truth, but the amount of potash, 
lime, and magnesia, and even soda, is very doubtful. Few perfect determina- 
tions have been made of the potash ; and as it is uncertain how much of the 
lime and magnesia present in the intestinal discharges is owing to elimin- 
ation, or simply to the remains of food, it is obvious that at present we 
cannot fix their quantities. The precise amount of iron is doubtful. One 
difficulty is, that the amount required is judged of by the amount eliminated ; 
some of the quantity passing out by skin and lungs and kidneys may, how- 
ever, be mere surplusage, and have never been actually employed in nutrition. 
With regard to the relative amounts of nitrogen and carbon required for 
the human body, the most perfect experiments yet made are by John Eanke. 
In a state of rest the relative amount of nitrogen and carbon varied between 
1 N to 11 C, and 1 N to 15 C. The absolute amount (weight of person 
160-6 lb avoir.) was 240 grains of N" to 3531-4 grains (8*07 ounces avoir.) 
of C, to exactly maintain the weight and the balance between ingesta and 
egesta. According to Gasparin's calculations, a man weighing 141 Ib. will 
require in grains, 

Nitrogen. Carbon. 

During rest, .... 198 4152 

exertion, . . . 395 4841 

The ratio of these numbers is rather different from those of Ranke. During 
rest there was IN to 21 C; and during activity 1 N to 12 C. On an 
average about fths of the carbon are given in the starches and fats, and th in 
the albuminates, but the ratio varies a good deal. 

Amount of Nitrogenous and Carboniferous Food. 

When, instead of speaking of nitrogen and carbon, we speak of nitro- 
genous and carboniferous food, the proportions come out differently. t One 
part of nitrogenous food to from 3 to 6 parts of carboniferous (1 to 4 being 

* Dr Edward Smith lias given some very interesting tables showing the amount of carbon 
and nitrogen taken by the Lancashire operatives in the time of the cotton famine in 1862. The 
daily consumption was for single males, 4588 grains of carbon and 215 of nitrogen, and for 
single females, 3758 grains of carbon and 155 of nitrogen. Married adults appear to have taken 
less, doubtless from the additional calls on their means. The diminution of nutritive elements 
appears to be chiefly in the nitrogen. The diet was, therefore, far from the starvation point, as 
far as nutrition is concerned. 

f I have not here nsed the term plastic and respiratory food, as an error is involved when 
such words are used in the usual sense. Liebig's grand, and in the abstract true, physiological 
generalisation cannot be applied in the classification of diets. The plastic and respiratorq 
actions in nutrition can be abstractedly disciissed, but it is questionable if most articles of food 
(and perhaps all) are not both plastic and respiratory. 

K 



146 FOOD. 

the mean), forms the usual proportion in apparently all nations, and it is 
indeed remarkable how the ratio is preserved in different countries. The 
following table shows the amount of nitrogenous and carboniferous food, if the 
numbers given in the table for calculating diet (p. 149) are adopted. A 
similar table has been given by Letheby in his instructive paper read before 
the Society of Arts (Journal of tlie Society of Arts, March 1857). The num- 
bers are a little different : 

Nitrogenous Carboniferous substances 

substances per cent. per cent., reckoned as starch.* 
Beef, ... 15 20-16 

Bread, ... 8 52 -8 

Flour, . . . 14-6 71-5 

Kice, ... 5 85-6 

Potatoes, . 1-5 2 3 '6 

Peas, ... 24 62-4 

Cheese, . . . 33*5 58*32 

Milk, . 4 13-88 

If it be desired to calculate the amount of nitrogen or carbon in these 
articles, it can be done very simply : 

1. Nitrogen. Divide the nitrogenous substance by 6"3,t the result is 
nitrogen ; e.g. beef =15 nitrogenous substance per cent., therefore 

^ = 2-38 percent, of N. 

One ounce (437'5 grains) of an albuminate contains 69-44 grains of nitro- 
gen. Multiply, then, 69*44 by the number of ounces of nitrogenous sub- 
stance, and the result is grains of nitrogen. 

2. Carbon. -Multiply the amount of fat by '79, the result is carbon ; mul- 
tiply the amount of starch by '444, the result is carbon ; add the two results. 
If instead of starch or cane or grape sugar, or pectin, there is much milk in the 
diet, the amount of lactin in the milk should be calculated (see chapter on 
MILK), and then multiplied by '4 instead of -444, as lactin contains only 40 
per cent, of carbon. 

But it must be understood that there is also 53-5 per cent, of carbon in 
the nitrogenous substances. Multiplying any albuminoid substance by -535 
will give the amount of carbon; e.g. in 100 ounces of meat there are 15 
ounces of nitrogenous matter, and these 15 ounces contain (15 x -535 = ) 8 
ounces of carbon. It may make the calculation easier to remember that 1 
ounce (437-5 grains) of fat contains 345-62 grains of carbon; 1 ounce of 
starch contains 194-2 grains of carbon; 1 ounce of albuminate contains 233 
grains of carbon. If the number of ounces is multiplied by these numbers, 
the amount of carbon in grains is given. 

If the amount of carbon in the fat, starch, and albuminoid matters be added, 
we obtain the total amount of carbon in the diet under examination. 

* When fat is to be reckoned as starch, it is considered that 1 part of fat = 2-4 starch; the 
fat is therefore multiplied by 2-4, and added to the amount of starch. The reason of this is 
seen by comparing the composition of fat and starch : 

Fat. Starch. 

Carbon, .... 79 44-44 

Hydrogen, .... 11 6 '17 

Oxygen, .... 10 49-39 

100 100 

Fat will demand 290'834 parts of to convert all the carbon into carbonic acid. Starch will 
demand only 118 "834 parts. These numbers are to each other as 2 '4 to 1. 
t This number is obtained by assuming the albuminous substances to be meat, the sarcosin 

of which contains 15*84 / of N, according to Strecker ; therefore -jTTgi = 6*31. 




QUANTITY OF FOOD. 



147 



Amount of the Fundamental Dietetic Principles. 

As already stated diet must not be considered only in relation to its amount 
of nitrogen, carbon, hydrogen, and salts. The form in which these elements 
exist is of great moment, and it would therefore appear that the physical con- 
dition of the food is second only in importance to its ultimate chemical con- 
stitution, and it is therefore at present of the greatest practical importance to 
calculate the amount of the fundamental dietetic principles.* 

It now seems certain that the fats and starches are not interchangeable ; 
that each class has its own part to play in nutrition ; and therefore it is wrong, 
in calculating diets, to confound starches and fats under the one common term 
of carboniferous. 

The mean amount of the four classes of solid aliments has been determined 
by several physiologists ; but many nlore experiments are needed to get a true 
average. The following table is taken from Moleschott,t the greatest autho- 
rity, at present, on this point. 

Water and food required daily for a working-man of average height and 
weight : 



Albuminous substances, 
Fatty, 

Carbo-hydrates, . 
Salts (all kinds), . 



Water, 



Grammes. 

130 
84 

404 
30 



Ounces avoir. 
1 oz. = 437 '5 grains. 

4-587 

2-964 

14-257 

1-058 



648 

2800 



22-866 
98-580 



3448 121-446 

Dr Lyon Playfair^: has calculated the following amounts from a considera- 
tion of many diets. 

Amount in ounces (avoir.} and tenths of ounces for Male Adults. 





J* 












* 8 >> 13 












> S fi 














Diet in 
quietude. 


Adults in 
full health, 
but with 


Adults in 
active work. 


Adults in 
laborious 
work 




Ills? 




easy work. 






Nitrogenous substances, 
Fat, 


2- 
0-5 


2-5 
1- 


4-2 
1-4 


5-5 
2-5 


6-5 

2-5 


Starch 


12- 


12- 


18-7 


20- 


20- 


Mineral matters, . . 






71 


9 




Carbon (total), 


6-7 


7-4 


11-6 


13-7 


14-3 



* As denned by Prout, and now admitted by the chief authors on diet. 

f Phys. der Nahrungsmittel, 1860, p. 223. A considerable number of diets have been cal- 
culated by Mulder, Pay en, Gasparin, Liebig, Play fair, Hildesheim, Christison, Letheby, 
Lauder Lindsay (36th Annual Report of the James Murray Lunatic Asylum, 1864), E. Smith, 
Beddoe, and several others, and I have also calculated several, but such details can only be given 
in a treatise on diet ; by means of the table afterwards given, however, any one may calculate 
out the amounts. 

+ Food of Man in relation to his Useful Work, 1865. 

K 2 



148 FOOD. 

These numbers are taken chiefly from working-men's and soldiers' dietaries. 
In persons of an equal activity, but more able to obtain what food they 
please, I believe, the albuminates and fats will be found in larger, and the 
starches in smaller amount ; at least they were so in the two following 
cases : 

In a friend of very active habits, aged thirty-two, and weighing 165-75 R>, 
the so-called solid food amounted to 40 J ounces, on a mean of seventeen days. 
The water-free solids and the water amounted to 

Albuminates, 6-056 ounces avoir. 

Fats, . .... 4-709 

Carbo-hydrates, .... 11 '573 

22-338 



Water (in food and drink), . , 88-860 

In this case a very large amount of fat was taken in the form of meat and 
butter, and a lesser proportion of starches. No less than 413 grains of nitro- 
gen were taken daily. 

In another friend, aged twenty-six, weighing 132 5), of remarkably active 
habits, the daily solid ingesta were 42 ounces avoir., calculating the water in 
this the water-free food was : 

Albuminates, . . . . . 7-37 ounces avoir. 

Fats, 6-048 

Carbo-hydrates, . . . . 11*75 



25-168 

Water (in food and drink), . . 60-42 

In this case, as in the former, the amount of albuminates was very large, 
in accordance with the extremely active life ; the fat was also very large, 
owing to the quantity of meat and of butter (2 ounces) taken daily ; the 
starches were comparatively in small amount. 

In both these cases the subjects of the experiments were in easy circum- 
stances, and took food ad libitum; they both appeared to be in perfect health; 
they took no wine or spirits, and but little beer. 

Moleschott has calculated that 104 grammes of nitrogenous substances 
(= 3-671 ounces avoir, or 243 grains of nitrogen) is the least amount a work- 
ing-man ought to have. Many men not working particularly hard take 5 to 
5'4 ounces avoir, daily of water-free albuminates.t 

For the purpose of calculating the amounts of the several classes of aliments 
a table of average composition must be used, as, of course, it is impossible to 
make analyses of the articles actually taken. Such tables cannot pretend to 
absolute accuracy, but are yet extremely useful as giving a close approxima- 

* In this and the following case the food was very carefully weighed ; the amount of water 
and nitrogen in the bread was determined ; the remaining amounts were calculated on the sup- 
position that the composition of the food was similar to that given in the table for calculating 
diets. 

t In the experiments on the friends just referred to, the amount of entering nitrogen was 
afterwards reduced to 175'78 and 164 grains daily, from a previous amount of more than 400 
grains. The amount of urea was enormously lessened, but in both cases more N passed off 
than entered the body, and the body losing weight, the active work in one person began to 
lessen in five days. In the other no effect on the work was produced in seven days, the extent 
of the trial. 



II 



CALCULATION OF DIETS. 



149 



tion. Whenever practicable, the nutritive value should be calculated- on the 
raw substance, as the analyses of cooked food are more variable. It must 
then be seen that no loss occurs in cooking.* 

Table for Calculating Diets. 



Articles of the Soldier's Diet. 


IN 100 PARTS. 


Water. 


Albumi- 
nates. 


Fats. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 


Salts. 


Uncooked meat of the kind sup- 














plied to soldiers, beef and 
mutton. Bone constitutes th 




75 


15 


8-4 




1-6 


of the soldier's allowance,t 














Uncooked meat of fattened 














cattle. Calculated from Lawes' 














and Gilbert's experiments. 




63 


14 


19 




3-7 


These numbers are to be used 














if the meat is very fat, . . 














Cooked meat;:}: roast, no drip-") 












ping being lost. Boiled as- > 


54 


27-6 


15-45 




2-95 


sumed to be the same, . . j 












Bread ; white wheaten of aver- 
age quality, 


} 


40 


8 


1-5 


49-2 


1-3 


Flour, average quality, . . . 




14 


14-6 


1-2 


68-6 


1-6 


Biscuit, 




8 


15-6 


1-3 


73-4 


1-7 


Eice, 




10 


5 


8 


83-2 


0-5 


Oatmeal, . 




12 


16 


6-8 


63-2 


2 


Maize (Poggiale), . 




13-5 


10 


6-7 


64-511 


1 5 

1-4 


Peas (drv), 




15 


22 


2 


ii 
5311 


2-4 


Potatoes, 




74 


1-5 


1 


ii 
23-4 


1 


Carrots (cellulose excluded), 




85 


6 


25 


8-4 


7 


Cabbage 




91 


2 


5 


5-8 


*7 


Butter, 




6 


3 


91 




variable, 


Egg (10 per cent, must be de-1 












taken as 2 '7 


ducted for , shell from the 




73-5 


13-5 


11-6 




1 


weight of the egg), . . . | 














Cheese, 




36-8 


33-5 


24-3 




5-4 


Milk (sp. gr. 1030 and over), . 




86-7 


4 


3-7 


5 


6 


(sp. gr. 1026), .... 




90 


3 


2-5 


3-9 


5 


Suofar 




3 






96-5 


5 





The mode of using the table is very simple ; the quantity of uncooked meat 
or bread being known, and it being assumed or proved that there is no loss in 
cooking, a rule-of-three brings out at once the proportion. Thus, the ration 
allowance of meat being 12 oz., 2 - 4 oz. or 20 per cent, is deducted for bone, as 

* Since this was written, some useful books have been published by Dr Horace Dobell, 
"Manual of Diet and Regimen, 1864," and by Dr Beddoe of Clifton, which contain fuller 
tables of this kind. 

f The gelatine of the meat is reckoned with the albuminates ; it is not certain what deduction 
should be made on account of its lower nutritive value, which is about jth that of albumen 
(Bischoff). 

J These numbers are taken from John Ranke's analysis. Silica of the husk deducted. 

|j There is also some indigestible cellulose in maize, peas, and carrots, which is not included 
in the table. 



150 



FOOD. 



the soldier does not get the best parts. 
9 '6 ounces will be 



The quantity of water in the remaining 



= 7*2, and the water-free solids will be 2-4 ounces. 



3*28 
7 
18 
21-07 



100 

In the case of salt beef or pork, it is not certain how their value should be 
calculated. The analyses by Girardin give for uncooked salt beef 
49*11 per cent, of water, 
24 '82 fibrin and cellular tissue, 

extractive matters, 

albumen, 

fat, 

soluble salts ; 

but the analysis of the brine shows that much of the nutritious matters, 
organic and mineral (phosphoric acid, lactic acid, magnesia), have passed out 
of the meat.* Liebig has reckoned the nutritive loss at one-third, or even one- 
half. It appears from Kiihne's observations, that myosin is soluble in a 10 
per cent, solution of chloride of sodium, and hence a large quantity of this 
substance necessarily passes into the brine. Analyses show, it is true, a large 
percentage of fibrin and cellular tissue in salt meat, but this is made up of 
indigestible nitrogenous substances, which afford, probably, little real nutritive 
material. Perhaps salt beef may be reckoned as equal to two-thirds the 
quantity of fresh beef; this estimate is certainly quite high enough. 

The precise amount of the mineral matters of the various articles can be 
calculated, whenever necessary, from the following list, compiled in great part 
from Moleschott's elaborate tables. The mode of calculation is the same as 
above. For example, it is required to know the amount of chloride of potas- 
sium in the soldier's ration of meat, which is taken, we will say, as 9 '6 ounces 
without bone 

oz -' or 5 ' 83 



We are now prepared to examine the food of our own and other armies. 

ENGLISH SOLDIER ON HOME SERVICE. 
Daily Quantity, Cost, and Nutritive Value of the Soldier's Rations. 



Articles. 


Quantity taken daily 
in oz. and lOths of oz. 


Price. 


To whom paid. 


Meat, 
Bread 


12 oz. ) 
16 


4Jd. 


Government. 


Bread, 
Potatoes, .... 
Other Vegetables, 
Coffee, .... 


' ) 
8 
16 
8 
0-33 




Bought in the market, 
or in some stations 


Tea, . 


0-16 


3Jd. 


partly supplied at 


Salt, 
Sugar, 
Milk, 


0-25 , 
1-33 , 
3-25 , / 




cost price by govern- 
ment. 


Total quantity, . 
Total value 


65-32 oz. 


8d. 













* Liebig found that the brine is saturated with the juice of meat, and Mr Whitelaw (Chemical 
Neivs, March 1864) has shown that extract of meat may be obtained by dialysis from the brine. 



CALCULATION OF DIETS. 



151 






GO 
10 


O 


b- co 

CM lO 

l-H O 


CO 

1 1 

o 


GO 
i i 


o 


CO 

o 
o 


CM 




: 


























safc 


lO 

o 





1O CM 

T i i i 


oo 

GO 

o 


05 

O 


CM 
CM 

O 


CM 

o 


CO 


o : 


1 




I I 




















, S 99, 


10 


lO 

cb 


05 

: ^ 


cp 


CO 

10 


9 


1 


05 


: : 




aShqqi.0 


CM 

10 


CO 
10 

r i 


: ^ 


10 


CO 


co 
o 


co 
o 


CM 


05 
00 

o : 


CO 

o 




PH 




















9{OUAY 'S'^tJQ 


05 
10 




: co 


o 


O5 
GO 

O 


CO 
O5 


CO 
CM 
O 


CO 
OS 


CO 

o 


- 




CM 


















I 1 


'S90!).'B!).0 ( J 


r l 


CO 

71 

p 


OO CO 
lO <M 

9 ^ 




CO 
CM 


CO 
10 

9 


10 
O 



C5 
i < 


9 : 


00 
1 1 

9 


STOJ PUB sirB3 


CM 




GO 

: 05 


CM 


CO 
CO 


XO 

oo 

I I 




O 
CO 


10 

.i>- CM 

9 9 







GO 
CM 

t i 




CO 
05 

: co 




CO 

p 


o 

CM 
CM 




10 

-H 
CO 




1 





lO 




' T 1 


CO 

p 


lO 
CO 

o 


7 1 

CM 




i i 

O 


1 1 
07, 




o 
p 


*~<M 


co 

05 
05 


T I 

O 


CO 


I ( 

C5 


1 


CM 
CM 


05 

9 


GO 
O 
C5 


<M 


CM 

O 


. lnj9jg 


CO 




. 




. 














' 




















ll^g JO UIBJJ 


CO 

cb 


ib 


CO 
t^ 10 

i I CO 


: 


CM 

p 


10 
CO 

p 


1 


CM 

i i 

op 


CO 

9 ' : 


: 


wnsm 


71 


i i 

o 


: g 


o 


CO 
GO 
O 


o 
o 


05 


lO 








1 < 























lO 


O5 
CO 


GO 
. O5 




CM 

O 


CO 

p 


O 


CO 
cp 


9 ' : 


o 
p 


^-^ 


* 

co 


o 

I 1 
cp 


10 -* 

T 1 "P 


CO 

9 


10 

9 


CO 
CM 



O 


10 
co 


CO 
CO 

p : 


9 




^ ' , 






















1 

rt <D 

S | 

<D CO 
PH rQ 

J- S 
s 1 

^ r^ 

1 


Chloride sodium, . . 


potassium, 
Potash, 


o 

m 


I 


Magnesia, 


Oxide iron or phosphate, 


Phosphoric acid, . . 


Sulphuric acid, . . . 
Chlorine, .... 


cf 



ji 



5 K 

.2 c 

oi Q) 

IS 

jT 
^ 















152 



FOOD. 



Nutritive Value in Ounces (avoir.) and Tenths of Ounces. 



Articles. 


Water. 


Nitrogenous 
substances. 


Fat. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 


Salts. 


Meat, one-fifth de- ) 
ducted for bone, . J 


7-2 


1-44 


0-8 




154 


Bread, 


9-6 


1-92 


0-36 


11-73 


312 


Potatoes, .... 


11-84 


0-24 


0-02 


3-75 


020 


Other vegetables ) 
(taken as cabbage), J 


7-28 


0-16 


0-04 


0-46 


050 


Milk, 


2-92 


0-1 


0-08 


0-13 


016 


Sugar, 


0-04 




... 


1-28 


006 


Salt 










25 














Total, . . . 


38-88 


3-86 


1-30 


17-35 


808 



In addition there is coffee, 0'33 ounces, 
tea, 0-16 
pepper, 

Eeckoned as nitrogenous and carboniferous substances (starch), the amount 

Nitrogenous substances, 3*86 = 1. 
Carboniferous (starch), 20'47 = 5*3. 
This is equivalent to 

Nitrogen, 268 grains. 

Carbon, 9 ounces, or 3937 grains, to which must be added 899 
grains of carbon in the albuminates, making in all 4836 grains 
of carbon. 
Dr Playfair* has calculated the diet of the British soldier to be 

Albuminates, . . 4 '2 50 ounces. 

Fat, .... 1-665 

Starch, &c., . . '18-541 

Mineral matter, . . -789 



Total, 



25-245 



This would give 298*4 grains of nitrogen and 11*803 ounces of carbon, of 
which 2'286 ounces are given by the albuminates, and 9 -5 17 ounces by the 
fats and starches (in all, 5163 grains of carbon). This gives a rather greater 
amount than my calculation. 

The food (issued and bought) of nine companies of the Eoyal Engineers 
(who receive extra working pay), serving at home in 1865, has been carefully 
calculated by Dr Playfair : the mean was 

Albuminates, . . 5 -08 ounces. 

Fat, . . . . 2-91 

Starch, &c., . . . 22'22 

Mineral matter, . . -93 



On the Food of Man in relation to his Useful Work, 1865, p. 11. 



CALCULATION OF DIETS. 153 

This would give the nitrogen as equal to 356*74 grains, and the total 
carbon as 14-844 ounces, of which 2*73 was in the albuminates. 

The ration of the English soldier at home, therefore, appears to be deficient, 
to a certain extent, in albuminates ; to be very poor in fat, and to be in 
excess in starches. The fresh vegetables are sufficient. It would be im- 
proved by the addition of more meat, or what would perhaps be better, two 
ounces of good cheese by some fatty food, such as bacon, butter or by a 
greater use of oil in cooking (an excellent way of getting fat into the system) 
and by a larger employment of beans and peas.* 

The accessory foods are rather deficient, and vinegar especially should be 
used. Robert Jackson very justly insisted on the importance of vinegar as a 
digestive agent and flavourer, as well, no doubt, as an anti-scorbutic. He 
remarks on the great use of vinegar made by the Romans, and possibly the 
comparative exemption which they had from scurvy was due to this. In 
time of war this ration is quite insufficient. (See WAR.) 

The diet of the soldier on foreign stations is stated under the several head- 
ings when it differs materially from that of home service, and the alterations 
in the diet which should be made under circumstances of great exertion are 
given in the proper chapter. 

In the time of Edward VI. the English soldier's rations during war were 
meat 2 Ib, bread 1 K>, wine 1 pint (Froude). The wine was the light 
French wine, invariably used in England before the Methuen treaty. 

In the military prisons the diet is as follows : t 

1. Not at hard labour 

Daily Ration in Ounces. 

Under 56 days. After 56 days. 
Oatmeal, . . 8 10 

Indian meal, .9 12 

Bread, 8 8 

Milk, ... 24 24 

2. At hard labour 

First Class. For four days the same as for prisoners not at hard labour ; 
on Sunday, Tuesday, and Thursday, the following : 

Oatmeal, ..... 8 ounces. 
Beef (raw, without bone), . . 8 

Potatoes, 32 

Or, Bread, 8 oz. ; Soup, thickened 

with 1 oz. of Oatmeal, 1 pint ; 

and 2 oz. of Vegetables, with 

Pepper and Salt. 

Bread, . . . . 8 
Milk, 16 

Second and Third Class. Same as prisoners without hard labour, except 
on Tuesday and Thursday, when the diet is the same as for the first class. 

* Various diets have been proposed by Sir A. Tulloch and others in the Royal Sanitary 
Commission's Report, p. 429, et seq. Dr Christison's remarks will be also found there, and are 
well worth attentive study. 

t Report on Military Prisons for 1863. Blue-Book, 1864, p. 22. 



154 



FOOD. 



3. In solitary confinement 

16 oz. of bread and water for three days (or for seven at the option of the 
visitor), then the same diet as for prisoners without hard labour. 



RATION OF THE FRENCH SOLDIER.* 

In time of Peace. 

In time of peace the different arms of the Service are somewhat differently 
fed, according to the contribution which the men make themselves, as in 
England. Thus the infantry of the line pay 45 centimes daily, the cavalry 
of the line 43 centimes, and the imperial guard 50 centimes. In time of 
peace the State furnishes only bread and fuel, the soldier buys the rest. 



Infantry of the Line. 



Munition bread, .... 
White bread for soup, . 
Meat (uncooked}, 

Vegetables, 

Salt, . 

Pepper, ... 
Brandy, . 

Total, exclusive of brandy, 



Grammes. 

750 
250 
250 
160 
15 

2 
50 C.C. 



Ounces avoir. 

26-5 
8-8 
8-8 
5-6 
0-5 



( 0-07 

( =31 grains. 
O'lf ounces. 

50-27 



If biscuit is issued, 550 grammes (or 19 -4 ounces) are given in place of 
bread. If salt beef is used, 250 grammes (8*8 ounces) are issued, and 200 
(7 oz.) of salt pork. Haricot beans frequently form part of the vegetables. 

Analysed by the table for calculating diets, and deducting 20 per cent, 
from the meat for bone, the water-free food of the French infantry soldier is, 
in ounces and tenths 



Bread, 
Meat, 
Vegetables (taken as cabbage), 

Total, 


Water. 


Albumi- 
nates. 


Fats. 


Starches. 


14 

6-6 
5-09 


2-8 
1-4 
11 


0-5 

0-8 
028 


17-8 
32 


25-69 


4-31 


1-328 


18-12 



In Algiers the ration of bread is also 750 grammes, or 26*5 ounces, and 8 -8 
ounces for soup, or biscuit 643 grammes. The meat is the same ; 60 grammes 
of rice and 15 of salt are issued, and on the march, sugar, coffee, and \ litre 
of wine. 



* Code des Officiers de. Saute, par Dicliot, 1862, pp. 481, et seq. 



CALCULATION OF DIETS. 



155 



In time of War. 





Total. 


Water. 


Albumi- 
nates. 


Fats. 


Starches. 


Meat (without bone), 


7 


5-2 


1-1 


0-7 




Bread, 


26-5 


10-6 


2-1 


0-4 


13-5 


Or Biscuit, . 


(18-5) 










Kice, . 


2 


0-2 


0-078 


0-018 


1:7 


Dried Vegetables, . 


2 




0-5 




1-5 


Salt Beef or Salt Pork, 


875 


6-58 


1-4 


0-78 




Total, 


46-25 


22-58 


5-18 


1-898 


16-7 


Salt, . 


7J OZ. 




Wine, . 


\ pint 




Beer, . 
Brandy, 


1 pint 
J oz. 


Total water-free food, 23'7 oz. 


Vinegar, 


... 




Sugar, . 


1 oz. 





In the Crimea the ration was rather larger than this; 10^ ounces of fresh 
meat and 8 of salt pork being issued, and haricot beans, with or without rice. 

PRUSSIAN SOLDIER.* 
In time of peace (in ounces avoir.} 



Bread (rye in part), 
Meat (without bone), 


Quantity. 


Water. 


Albumi- 
nates. 


Fatty 
subst. 


Starchy 
subst. 


Salts. 


25-5 
5-5 


11 

4 


2-25 
0-9 


33 

5 


11-75 


21 


31 


15 


3-15 


83 


11-75 


21 



= 15 -9 oz. avoir, daily. 

For this food, and for a very small quantity of fresh vegetables, the soldier 
pays a little over l^d. daily. As this is insufficient, he is obliged to buy 
food for himself. Hildesheim states that he has not been able to ascertain 
whether he obtains even in this way enough, but that diseases of an asthenic 
character are of such frequent occurrence among these soldiers as to lead to 
the belief that the die, even when increased by private means, is insufficient. 

On the March (in ounces avoir.) 



Bread, 
Meat, 


Quantity. 


Water. 


Albumi- 
nates. 


Fatty 
subst. 


Starchy 
subst. 


Salts. 


33 

8-25 


14 

6-2 


2-9 
1-33 


4 
75 


15-2 


25 


41-25 


20-2 


4-23 


1-15 


15-2 


25 



20-58 oz. avoir, daily of water-free solid in addition to a small supply of 
fresh vegetables. 



* Hildesheim. Die Normal-Diat. Berlin, 1856, p. 60. 



156 



FOOD. 



If the soldier always got this quantity he might manage pretty well, but 
he sometimes receives part of it in money ; this he spends always in brandy, 
and soon becomes " fatigued and unable to bear the marches." 

Hildesheim says he greatly requires " a warm breakfast" after which, even 
in stormy weather, great fatigue can be borne. 

In time of War. 

The war ration is divided into a lesser and greater war ration ; the former 
merely differs from the latter in having one-half as much meat. 



Greater War Ration* 



Bread, . 
Or Biscuit, . 
Fresh Meat, . 
Or Salt Meat, 
Eice, 



Ounces. 

29 
144 

8 
10 

3 



Or Barley, Eye, or Buckwheat, 3 J 



Ounces. 

Or Peas, or Beans, or Flour, 8 
Or Potatoes, ... 48 
Salt, .... -75 

Coffee, roasted, . . "5 

Brandy, ... 2 



As the ration is thus not always the same, it is difficult to calculate it, but 
supposing rice was issued, it would be =20-217 oz. of total water-free solids. 
This amount would suffice for a daily march of about fourteen English miles, 
but not for anything more severe than this. If peas or beans were issued, 
the amount of nitrogen would be greater. 

This diet scale is not well arranged. Eice, pearl barley, peas, and potatoes, 
are not substitutes for each other. 

In the war in Schleswig, in 1864, the diet of the Prussian soldier was 
stated to be meat ^ K>, bread 2 lb, peas or beans ^ Ib, salt ^ oz., roasted coffee 
\ oz., rice or sago occasionally. On field days the meat was doubled. Biscuit 
was only used when bread could not be obtained. 

AUSTRIAN SOLDIER. 
In time of Peace (in ounces avoir.) 



Bread, 
Meat (without bone), 
Flour, 


Total. 


Water. 


Nitrogenous 
substances. 


Fatty 
siibstances. 


Starchy 
substances. 


31-75 

7-5 
1-25 


12-7 
5-625 
0-175 


2-54 
1-2 

0-175 


0-476 
0-675 
0-025 


16-190 

: 875 


40-50 


18-500 


3-915 


1-176 


17-065 



Total solids (water-free food) = 22 -156. 

The amount is pretty good, but there is too great a preponderance of bread, 
and there is too great sameness. The fat is in too small a quantity ; the 
nitrogenous substances are too small. 



* Ordinance of 1859. Das Preuss. Militair Med.-Wesen. Von C. J. Prager. 1864, p. 159. 
The amount of potatoes seems very great. 



CALCULATION OF DIETS. 157 



In time of War. 

It is difficult to calculate the daily ration, as there is a weekly issue of many 
substances. On four days, fresh pork is issued ; the total amount being 26 
oz., or 6^ oz. daily. On one day, 6 oz. of salt pork ; on one day, 6 oz. of beef; 
and on one day, 6 oz. of smoked bacon ; altogether in the week, 44 oz. of meat 
are issued ; and in addition, 1 oz. of butter or fat. 

There are also issued per week : 

24^ ounces of biscuit, 
147 flour for bread, 

cooking, 

pickled cabbage (sour kraut), 
potatoes, 
pease, 
barley. 

If these articles be distributed uniformly over the seven days, the result is 
per diem : 

4 ounces of nitrogenous substances, 
1| fatty substances, 
2 Of carbo-hydrates, 

Water-free food, 26-9 

Wine, brandy, and beer are also given. 

For the calculation of the nitrogenous substances in meat, Artmann, the 
Austrian surgeon, has been followed ; but as he takes the nitrogenous consti- 
tuents of meat as 20 per cent., and the fat as 10 per cent., the proportion of 
these two constituents is rated too high. 

BUSSIAN ARMY* (1856). 

Black bread, 1 Ib. 

Meat, 1 K>. 

Kawass (fermented drink), . . 1-1 quarts. 

Sour cabbage, 3^ gills. 

Barley, 3| gills. 

Salt, . . . . . . 1^ ounces. 

Horse radish, .... 4 grains. 

Pepper, 4 grains. 

Vinegar, . . . . . 1| gills. 

It will be observed that this ration is particularly strong in accessory and 
anti-scorbutic food ; in this respect, we might take a lesson from the 
Russians. 

Hindu diet. The Hindu diet consists of some of the millets (cholum, 
raggee, cumboo, see Millets), rice, leguminosse (Co j anus indicus), with green 
vegetables, oil, and spices. If any kind of diet of this sort has to be cal- 
culated, it can be readily done by means of the analyses of the usual foods 
given farther on. For example, a Hindu prisoner at labour in Bengal, 



Report of Sanitary Commission, 1858, p. 425. 



158 



FOOD. 



receives, under Dr Mouat's dietary,* the following diet during his working 
days : 





Total, 
oz. 


Water. 
oz. 


Album, 
oz. 


Fat. 
oz. 


Starches, 
oz. 


Salt, 
oz. 


Eice, 


20 


2 


1 


16 


16-74 


1 


Dholl (a pea, Cajanus ) 
indicus), . / 


4-25 


4 


9 


08 


2-75 


12 


Vegetables (reckoned ) 
as cabbage), j 


6 


5-46 


12 


03 


34 


04 


Oil, . 


33 






33 


... 




Salt, . 


33 






... 


... 


33 


Spices 


33 



























In some Bengal prisons, 2 ounces of fish or flesh appear to be also 
given. 

Mechanical force oUaiiiablefromtliefood. Dr LyonPlayfairt hascalculated 
very carefully the amount of mechanical force which can be derived from the 
albuminates. Adopting the calorific units of Andrews (viz., 7900 for carbon, 
33,808 for hydrogen, 2307 for sulphur, and 2227 '7 for carbonic oxide), % and 
assuming that one-seventh of the carbon is converted into carbonic oxide, he 
estimates that one ounce of albumen would develop heat enough to raise 
126 - 5 kilogrammes of water 1 Cent. If this is multiplied by the correspond- 
ing mechanical force (taken by Dr Playfair as 425 kilogrammes lifted one 
metre, equal to one kilogramme of water raised 1 Cent.), the result is that the 
perfect oxidation of one ounce of albumen would suffice to raise 173 tons one 
foot high. If 5 -5 ounces of albuminates were taken daily, the possible me- 
chanical force would be 951'5 tons lifted a foot. The work of the human 
heart is equal to 122 tons lifted one foot in twenty-four hours, and Dr Play- 
fair believes that the remaining internal mechanical work of the body (move- 
ment of muscles of respiration, intestines, mental work, &c.) will be equal to 
224 tons lifted one foot. The total internal work of the body is then sup- 
posed to be equal to 346 tons lifted a foot, and this amount would be given 
by two ounces of dry (water-free) albumen. The external mechanical force 
manifested by the body would be the result of the oxidation of the re- 
maining 3J ounces of albumen, believed to be taken by adult men in active 
work. 



* See Mouat's elaborate report " On the Diet of Bengal PrisoneiV Government Return, 1860, 
p. 49. The chittack is reckoned as the bazaar chittack- -viz. , = -1283 K>, or nearly 2 ounces avoir. 

f Food of Man in relation to his Useful Work, 1855. 

+ Calorific unit = one kilogramme of water raised 1 Cent. It is more convenient to use this 
expression than the smaller amount of one gramme of water raised 1 Cent. 

The army surgeon will find a fuller account of Dr Playfair's Paper in the Army Medical 
Blue-Book for 1863 (vol. v.), 1865, p. 429. 



DIET IN SICKNESS. 159 



SECTION III. 

AMOUNT AND KIND OF FOOD IN SICKNESS. 

This subject "belongs to the practice of medicine, and cannot be treated in 
a work on Hygiene. A few words may, however, be said. 
Two modes may be employed in calculating sick diets. 

1. The average diet of healthy men may be halved or quartered; here the 
relations of the different classes remain the same, but the amount is lessened. 
These half and quarter diets are useful, as allowing the physician to know at 
once the exact amount his patient is taking ; and tables can be kept of the 
nutritive value of the diet, to avoid trouble in calculation. 

2. The relative proportions of the several classes may be altered ; the nitro- 
genous substances may be increased or lessened ; or the fatty or starchy sub- 
stances or salts may be thus dealt with. By making alterations in this way, 
certain tissues may be fed or brought into a state of inanition at the option of the 
physician, and the nitrogenous tissues can be wasted or fed, or the fat of the 
body can be removed or increased almost at will. This can be done in some 
cases both directly and indirectly thus, the growth of the nitrogenous tissues 
can be altered both directly by increasing or lessening the nitrogenous sub- 
stances ; or indirectly, by altering the amount of starches, which by their 
more easy union with oxygen, affect the action of that agent on the nitrogenous 
tissues. But these results are not identical ; in one case, if the nitrogenous 
aliments are increased, the growth of the nitrogenous tissues is rendered more 
active, and their bulk increases, because there is increased formation ; if the 
starches only are increased, the nitrogenous tissues also retain their bulk, or in 
other words remain un wasted ; but this is simply from delayed metamorphosis. 

It cannot be said at present that the facts of nutrition, now being worked 
out by physiologists, can be applied very perfectly in the treatment of disease;* 
but some indications have been given, and it is certain that the physician can 
in this way wield a great power ; which, if less striking than that obtained 
more rapidly by drugs, is yet of immense moment. 

In addition to quantity and composition, the digestibility of the food is a 
point of vast importance in the treatment of the sick, as the nervous and 
muscular powers of the stomach, and the supply of gastric juice, are so often 
lessened. The point of digestibility indeed is often alone considered, and 
certainly it is most important ; but it should not supersede, but supplement 
the determination of quantity, and the calculation of composition. 

Fixed scales of diet for sick must be used in hospitals for convenience ; but 
the innumerable wants of the sick can never be compressed into three or four, 
or even ten or twelve rigid scales ; and as the treatment by diet is better 
understood, the fixed diet tables will gradually become mere outlines, which 
will be filled up by orders for each special case. 

In the army, in order to facilitate work, a very elaborate system of diet 
tables is in use, which is intended to avoid, as far as possible, the employment 
of extras. There are altogether ten diets tea, spoon, beef-tea, milk, low, 
chicken, half, fish, roast, entire. The amount is given in the Medical Eegu- 
lations (page 60). The following table shows the quantity in the chief diets, 
and the proportion of carboniferous and nitrogenous aliments, as calculated 
by Dr de Chaumont from the numbers given in the preceding table. 



* Moleschott has attempted this in his chapter (unfortunately too short) on the Diet in 
Inflammations, &c. 



160 



FOOD. 



Nutritive Value of Military Hospital Diets, as fixed by Regulation* 





Amount of the Different Constituents in Ounces and Tenths of Ounces. 


NAME OF DIET. 


Albumi- 
nates. 


Fats. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 


Salts. 


Water- 
free 
Weight. 


Water. 


Total. 
Weight. 


Tea Diet 


880 


342 


6-648 


153 


8-023 


8-477 


17 


Spoon Diet 


960 


342 


8-288 


173 


9-763 


8-737 


18} 


Milk 


3-620 


2-446 


12-517 


557 


19-140 


57-850 


77 


Beef-tea ,,t 


2-400 


1-074 


7-651 


828 


11-953 


16-047 


28J 


Low + 


3-503 


2-792 


11-531 


1-004 


18-845 


31-450 


49 H 


Half ,,t 


3-072 


2-102 


12-966 


1-306 


19-446 


27-607 


47| 


Entire 


3-792 


2-446 


14-838 


1-450 


22-526 


36-267 


59J 


Chicken 


3-411 


1-554 


10-603 


1-279 


16-847 


18-403 


35J 


Fish 


3-134 


2-384 


12-475 


1-394 


19-387 


24-863 


44J 



SECTION IV. 
DIGESTIBILITY OF FOOD. 

The quantity of the different articles of diet being determined, and their 
good quality ascertained (see succeeding chapters), the next point is to fix their 
degree of digestibility. 

Digestibility depends partly on the original nature of the substance, as to 
hardness and cohesion, or chemical nature, and partly on the manner in which 
it can be altered by cooking. Tables of degree of digestibility have been 
formed by several writers, and especially by Dr Beaumont, by direct experi- 
ment on Alexis St Martin ; but it must be remembered that these are merely 
approximative, as it is so difficult to keep the conditions of cooking equal. || 

Bice, tripe, whipped eggs, sago, tapioca, barley, boiled milk, raw eggs, lamb, 
parsnips, washed and baked potatoes, and fricasseed chicken, are the most 
easily digested substances in the order here given ; the rice disappearing from 
the stomach in one hour, and the fricasseed chicken in 2| hours. Beef, pork, 
mutton, oysters, butter, bread, veal, boiled and roasted fowls, are rather less 
digestible ; roast beef disappearing from the stomach in three hours, and roast 
fowl in four hours. Salt beef and pork disappeared in 4^ hours. 

As a rule, Beaumont found animal food digested sooner than farinaceous, 
and in proportion to its minuteness of division, and tenderness of fibre. 



SECTION V. 
VARIETY OF FOOD. 

According to the best writers on diet, it is not enough to give the proxi- 
mate dietetic substances in proper amount. Variety must be introduced into 
the food, and different substances of the same class must be alternately em- 

* The amounts of the different articles are given in the Medical Regulations. The total 
weight does not. always correspond to the other numbers, as tea, &c., is omitted. 

f As soup is only given, and not the entire meat, the amount of the albuminates is too high. 

J Roast half nearly the same. 

Varied diet almost the same. 

|| An extended table is given in Dr Cox's excellent edition of " Combe's Physiology of Diges- 
tion," p. 123. 



DISEASES CONNECTED WITH FOOD. 161 

It may appear singular that this should be necessary ; and certainly 
many men, and most animals, have perfect health on a very uniform diet. 
Yet, there appears no doubt of the good effect of variety, and its action is 
probably on primary digestion. Sameness cloys ; and with variety, more food 
is taken, and a larger amount of nutriment is introduced. It is impossible, 
however, with rations, to introduce any great variety of food ; but the same 
object appears to be secured by having a variety of cooking. Formerly, the 
soldier had nothing but boiled beef; now, he has roast meat twice in the 
week, and stews occasionally ; and a portion of his flour is made into puddings. 
In the case of children especially, a great improvement in health takes place 
when variety of cooking is introduced ; and by this plan (among others), Dr 
Balfour succeeded in marvellously improving the health of the boys in the 
Duke of York's School. 

SECTION VI. 
DISEASES CONNECTED WITH FOOD. 

So great is the influence of food on health, that some writers have reduced 
hygiene almost to a branch of dietetics. Happiness, as well as health, is con- 
sidered to be insured or imperilled by a good or improper diet, and high moral 
considerations are supposed to be involved in the due performance of diges- 
tion. If there is some exaggeration in this, there is much truth ; and doubtless, 
of all the agencies which affect nutrition, this is the most important. 

The diseases connected with food form, probably, the most numerous order 
which proceeds from a single class of causes ; and so important are they, that 
a review of them is equivalent to a discussion on diseases of nutrition generally. 

It is of course impossible to do more here than outline so large a topic. 

Diseases may be produced by alterations (excess or deficiency) in quantity ; 
by imperfect conditions of digestibility, and by special characters of quality. 

SUB-SECTION I. ALTERATIONS IN QUANTITY. 

1. Excess of Food. In some cases, food is taken in such excess, that it is 
not absorbed ; it then undergoes chemical changes in the alimentary canal, and 
at last putrefies ; quantities of gas (carbonic acid and sulphuretted hydrogen) 
are formed. As much as 30 Ibs. of a half-putrid mass have been got rid of by 
purgatives.* Dyspepsia, constipation, and irritation, causing diarrhoea, which 
does not always empty the bowels, are produced. Sometimes some of the putrid 
substances are absorbed, as there are signs of evident poisoning of the blood, 
a febrile condition, torpor and heaviness, fcetor of the breath, and sometimes 
possibly even jaundice. It was, no doubt, cases of this kind which led to the 
routine practice of giving purgatives; and as this condition, in a moderate 
degree, is not uncommon, the use of purgatives will probably never be dis- 
continued. 

The excess of food may be absorbed. The amount of absorption of the 
different alimentary principles is not precisely known. Dogs can digest an 
immense quantity of meat, and especially if they are fed often ; and not simply 
largely, once or twice a-day. In men, also, much meat and albuminous matter 
can be digested ;t though it is by no means uncommon, in large meat-eaters, 

* A good case of this kind is recorded by Kouth (Faecal Fermentation, p. 19). Some convicts 
in Australia received from 1\ to 1\ Ib of food daily. Obstinate constipation, dyspepsia, 
diarrhoea, skin diseases, and ophthalmia were produced. Purgatives brought away large quan- 
tities of half-putrid masses. 

t Jones's, and especially Hammond's experiments, " Experimental Researches," 1857, p. 20. 

L 



162 FOOD. 

to find much, muscular fibre in the faeces. Still, enough can be taken, not 
merely to give a large excess of nitrogen, but even to supply carbon in sufficient 
quantity for the wants of the system. 

There is certainly a limit to the digestion of starch (though sugar, how- 
ever, is absorbed in large amount), as after a very large meal much starch 
passes unaltered. This is also the case with fat ; and if large quantities are 
given, much passes by the bowels. But in all cases, habit probably much 
affects the degree of digestive power ; and the continued use of certain articles 
of diet leads to an increased formation of the fluids which digest them. 

When excess of albuminates continually passes into the system, congestions 
and enlargements of the liver, and probably other organs, and a general state 
of plethora, are produced. If exercise is not taken at the same time, there is 
a disproportion between the absorbed oxygen and the absorbed albuminates, 
which must lead to imperfect oxidation, and therefore to retention in the body 
of some substances, or to irritation of the eliminating organs by the passage 
through them of products less highly elaborated than those they are adapted 
to remove. 

Although not completely proved, it is highly probable that gouty affections 
arise partly in this way, partly probably from the use of liquids which delay 
metamorphosis, and therefore lead to the same result as increased ingestion, 
and in some degree also from the use of indigestible articles of food. 

Very often large meat-eaters are not. gouty, and do not appear in any way 
over-fed. In this case, either a great amount of exercise is taken, or, as is 
often the case in these persons, the meat is not absorbed, owing frequently to 
imperfect mastication. 

A great excess of albuminates, without other food, produces in a short time 
(five days Hammond) marked febrile symptoms, malaise, and diarrhoea ; and 
if persevered in, albumen appears in the urine. 

Excess of starches and of fats delays the metamorphosis of the nitrogenous 
tissues, and produces excess of fat. Sometimes acidity and flatulence are 
caused by the use of much starch. It is not understood if profounder diseases 
follow the excessive use of starches unless decided corpulence is produced, 
when the muscular fibres of the heart and of many voluntary muscles lessen 
in size, and the consequences of enfeebled heart's action are produced. When 
an excessive quantity of starch is used to replace albuminates, in physiological 
experiments, the condition becomes of course a complex one. 

If an excess of starch be taken under any circumstances, much passes into 
the faeces, and the urine often becomes saccharine. 

There may be also excess of food in a given time ; that is, meals too fre- 
quently repeated, though, the absolute quantity in twenty-four hours may not 
be too great. 

2. Deficiency of Food. The long catalogue of effects produced by famine 
is but too well known, and it is unnecessary to repeat it here. But the 
effects produced by deficiency in any one of the four great classes of ali- 
ments, the other classes being in normal amount, have not yet been perfectly 
studied. 

The complete deprivation of albuminates, without lessening of the other 
classes, begins to produce marked effects in from four to five days. There is 
great loss of muscular strength, often mental debility, some feverish and dys- 
peptic symptoms. Then follow anaemia and great prostration. The elimina- 
tion of nitrogen in the form of urea greatly lessens, while the uric acid dimi- 
nishes in a less degree. If starch be largely supplied, the weight of the body 
does not lessen for seven or eight days (Hammond). 

If the deprivation of albuminates be less complete (70 to 100 grains of 



DISEASES CONNECTED WITH FOOD. 163 

being given daily), the body lessens in activity, and passes into more 
or less of an adynamic condition, which predisposes to the attacks of all the 
specific diseases (especially of malarious affections and typhus), and of pneu- 
monia, and modifies the course of some of these diseases, as, for instance, of 
typhoid, which runs its course with less elevation of temperature than usual, 
and with less or with no excess of ureal excretion. If Dr Playfair's calcula- 
tion is correct, two ounces of albuminates (=138-8 grains of nitrogen) are 
necessary in each twenty-four hours for the mere internal mechanical work 
of the body (circulation, respiration, &c.) ; any amount below this will then 
lead at once to imperfection of some of the mechanism of the body, and to 
alterations in circulation, and, as a consequence, in secretion or excretion. 

The deprivation of starches can be borne for a long time if fat be given, 
but if both fat and starch are excluded, though albuminates be supplied, 
illness is produced in a few days. Nor is it difficult to explain this : as 
albumen contains 5 3 '5 per cent, of carbon and 15 '5 per cent, of nitrogen, to 
supply 3500 grains of carbon no less than 1014 grains of nitrogen must be 
introduced, a quantity three times as great as the system can easily assimilate, 
unless enormous exertion be taken, and then the quantity of carbon becomes 
insufficient. 

Men can be fed on meat for a long time, as a good deal of fat is then intro- 
duced, and if the meat be fresh (and raw ?), scurvy is not readily induced. 

The deprivation of fat does not appear to be well borne, even if starches 
be given ; but the exact effects are not, I believe, known. The great remedial 
effects produced by giving fat in many of the diseases of obscure mal-nutrition, 
prove that the partial deprivation of fat is both more common and more 
serious than is supposed. The deprivation of the salts is also evidently 
attended with marked results which are worthy of more attention than they 
have yet received. There seems good reason to think that proper cell-growth 
requires a liberal supply of phosphate of lime, and that good bone-growth 
cannot go on without lime and magnesia. The marvellous effects of iron in 
ansemia are certainly best explained by looking on the treatment as simply a 
dietetic one, a substance being supplied which had previously been wanting 
in the food, or which had from some cause or other passed more rapidly out 
of the system than it could be replaced by the food. But the deprivation of 
the organic salts forming carbonates of alkalies in the system produces the 
most singular result if, as commonly supposed, the peculiar mal-nutrition of 
tissues (for the blood is less affected), which we call scurvy, is to be attributed 
to their deficiency. And as scurvy is not prevented by the simple carbonates 
of the alkalies, it must be supposed that it is citric, lactic, and other acids of 
that kind which are required, and that scurvy is not so much a deficiency of 
alkali in the system as a want of organic acids and alkalies together. 

Bad effects are also produced if the intervals between meals are too long ; 
this is a matter in which there is great individual difference, and need not be 
further referred to. 

SUB-SECTION II. CONDITIONS OF DIGESTIBILITY AND ASSIMILATION. 

A great number of diseases are produced, not by alterations in quantity, or 
by imperfections in quality of the raw food, but by conditions of indigesti- 
bility, either dependent on physical or chemical conditions of the food itself, 
or of the digestive fluids. To some persons certain foods are indigestible at 
all times, or at particular times. Indigestibility leads to retention, and then 
to the results of retention, viz., chemical changes and putrefaction going on 
in the stomach and bowels under the influence of warmth, moisture, and 

L2 



16-4 FOOD. 

air. Then irritation is produced, and dyspepsia, diarrhoea, or dysentery, are 
caused. 

Indigestibility extends, however, farther than this. There is some reason 
for thinking that the albuminates sometimes pass into the circulation less pro- 
perly prepared than usual to undergo the action of the liver, and that they 
therefore produce irritation of that organ, and passing into the blood in some 
unassimilable state, produce irritation of the skin or kidneys. Sometimes, 
indeed, albumen appears in the urine, as if it had circulated like a foreign 
body in the blood. Such conditions are usually allied to some evident error 
in primary digestion, but occasionally are not obviously accompanied by any 
gastric disorder. Whether there is any similar imperfection in the digestion 
of starch or fat is not at present known. 

SUB-SECTION III. CONDITIONS OP QUALITY. 

Altered quality of what is otherwise good food produces a great number 
of diseases. Most of these are referred to under the headings of the different 
articles of food, and the subject is merely introduced here to complete the 
general sketch of the production of disease from food. 

In inquiring, then, into the effects of food, the following appears to be the 
best order of procedure : 

1. Is the food excessive or deficient in quantity as a whole, or in any of 

the primary classes of aliments? 

2. Are the different articles digestible and assimilable, or from some 

cause inherent in the food or proper to the individual, is there diffi- 
culty in primary digestion or want of proper assimilation? 

3. Is the quality of the food altered either before or after cooking? 




CHAPTER VI. 



QUALITY, CHOICE, AND COOKING OF FOOD, AND DISEASES 
ATTRIBUTABLE TO IMPROPER QUALITY. 

SECTION I. 
MEAT. 

THE advantages of meat as a diet are its large amount of nitrogenous sub- 
stance, the union of this with much fat, the presence of important salts (viz., 
chloride of potassium, phosphate of potash, carbonate of potash, or a salt- 
forming carbonate in incineration), and iron. It is also easily cooked, and is 
very digestible ; it is probably more easily assimilated than any vegetable, and 
there is a much more rapid metamorphosis of tissue in carnivorous animals 
than in vegetable feeders. Whether the use of large quantities of meat in- 
creases the bodily strength or the mental faculties more than other kinds of 
nitrogenous food, is uncertain. The great disadvantage of meat is the want, 
of starch. 

The composition of fresh and salt meat has been already given (pages 149 
and 150) ; but the annexed table will supply further details : 

Composition of Fresh Beef. (Moleschott Mean of all the Continental 

Analyses.} 

Water, 734 

Soluble albumen and hsematin, . . . . 2*25 

Insoluble albuminous substances, . . . 15 - 2 

Gelatinous substances, 3 -3 

Fat,* 2-87 

Extractive matters, 1'38 

Kreatin, 0*068 

Ash, 1-6 

The composition of the ash has already been given (page 151). 
It is worthy, however, of remark, that Stolzelt found 8 '9 per cent, of car- 
bonic acid in 100 of ash, which indicates probably lactic acid. Are the 
anti-scorbutic properties of fresh and raw (?) meat connected with this acid, 
and is it destroyed by cooking ? More than one-third of the ash is composed 
of phosphoric acid. It is alkaline. 

Beef, mutton, and pork form the chief meats eaten by the soldier. 



* The amount of tat in this analysis is c< 
t Lieltig'.s Annalen, band Ixxvii. p. 256. 



certainl v too low. 



166 AKTICLES OF THE SOLDIER'S FOOD. 

In time of peace, he only receives fresh meat, beef and mutton, and more 
seldom pork ; in time of war, he has salt "beef and salt pork. The meat is 
supplied by contractors, or is, at some stations, furnished by the commissariat, 
who have their own slaughter-houses. 

The salt meat is prepared in the usual way, but it is probable that Pro- 
fessor Morgan's improved process will supersede the old plan. Instead of 
cutting the meat into small masses, and placing it in brine, Professor Morgan, 
immediately after death, opens the thorax, inserts a pipe into the left ventricle, 
and connects the pipe, by an india-rubber tube, with a tank of brine placed at 
a few feet elevation, and injects the vessels. After the blood has been driven 
out through the right auricle, the exit is closed, and the pressure forces the 
brine into the smallest ramifications of the vessels. The process is finished in 
ten to twenty minutes ; the meat is then cut up, dried, if necessary, in a hot- 
air chamber, and packed in charcoal. The injected fluid is composed of 1 
gallon of brine to the cwt., J to J ft of nitre, 2 Ib of sugar, a little spice, salt, 
and ^ oz. of phosphoric acid, which serves more completely to retain the 
albumen, and also adds a little phosphoric acid. The brine can be used hot. 
This is an excellent plan, and will undoubtedly supersede the old system. It 
is now being employed to preserve the bodies of the cattle in South America. 
The meat is rather salt. 

The medical officer may be called on to see the animals during life, or to 
examine the meat. 

SUB-SECTION I. INSPECTION OP ANIMALS. 

Animals should be inspected twenty-four hours before being killed.* In 
this country killing is done twenty-four or forty-eight hours before the meat 
is issued ; in the tropics only ten or twelve hours previously. 

Animals should be well grown, well nourished, and neither too young nor 
too old. The flesh of young animals is less rich in salts, fat, and syntonine, 
and also loses much weight (40 to 70 per cent.) in cooking. 

Weight. An ox should weigh not less than 600 ft, and will range from 
this "to 1200 ft. The French rules fix the minimum at 250 kilogrammes 
( = 550 ft av.). The mean weight in France is 350 kilogrammes ( = 770 ft av.). 
A cow may weigh a few pounds less ; a good fat cow will weigh from 700 to 
740 ft. A heifer should weigh 350 to 400 ft. The French rules fix the 
minimum of the cow's weight at 160 kilogrammes (=35 2 ft). The mean 
weight of cows in France is 230 kilogrammes ( = 506 ft). 

There are several methods of determining the weight ; the one most com- 
monly used in this country is to measure the length of the trunk from just in 
front of the scapulse to the root of the tail, and the girth or circumference just 
behind the scapula? ; then multiply girth by 0'08, and the product by the 
length, the dimensions in cubic feet are obtained ; each cubic foot is sup- 
posed to weigh 42 ft avoirdupois. The formula is (C x '08) x L x 42. An ox 
or cow gives about 60 per cent, of meat, exclusive of the head, feet, liver, 
lungs, and spleen, &c.t 

A full-grown sheep will weigh from 60 to 90 ft, but the difference in 
different breeds is very great. It also yields about 60 per cent, of available 
food. 

* Every contract should have a clause giving officers the power of inspection. 

f The animal is divided into carcass and offal ; the former includes the whole of the skeleton 
(except the head and feet), with the muscles, membranes, vessels, and fat, and the kidneys and 
fat surrounding them. The offal includes the head, feet, skin, and all internal organs, except 
the kidneys. 



Afull-g 



CHOICE OF MEAT. 167 



A full-grown pig weighs from 100 to 180 lb or more, and yields about 75 to 
80 per cent, of available food. 

Age. The age of the ox and cow should be from three to eight years ; the 
age is told chiefly by the teeth, and less perfectly by the horns. The tem- 
porary teeth are in part through at birth, and all the incisors are through in 
twenty days ; the first, second, and third pairs of temporary molars are through 
in thirty days ; the teeth are grown large enough to touch each other by the 
sixth month ; they gradually wear and fall in eighteen months ; the fourth 
permanent molars are through at the fourth month ; the fifth at the fifteenth ; 
the sixth at two years. The temporary teeth begin to fall at twenty-one 
months, and are entirely replaced by the thirty-ninth to the forty-fifth month ; 
the order being central pair of incisors gone at twenty-one months ; second 
pair of incisors at twenty-seven months ; first and second temporary molars 
at thirty months ; third temporary molars at thirty months to three years ; 
third and fourth temporary incisors at thirty-three months to three years. 
The development is quite complete at from five to six years. At that time 
the border of the incisors has been worn away a little below the level of the 
grinders. At six years, the first grinders are beginning to wear, and are on 
a level with the incisors. At eight years, the wear of the first grinders is 
very apparent. At ten or eleven years, the used surfaces of the teeth begin 
to bear a square mark surrounded with a white line ; and this is pronounced 
on all the teeth by the twelfth year ; between the twelfth and fourteenth 
year this mark takes a round form. 

The rings on the horns are less useful as guides. At ten or twelve months 
the first ring appears ; at twenty months to two years the second ; at thirty to 
thirty-six months the third ring ; at forty to forty-six months the fourth ring; 
at fifty-four to sixty months the fifth ring, and so on. But at the fifth year, 
the three first rings are indistinguishable, and at the eighth year all the rings. 
Besides, the dealers file the horns. 

In the sheep, the temporary teeth begin to appear in the first week, and fill 
the mouth at three months ; they are gradually worn and fall about fifteen or 
eighteen months. The fourth permanent grinders appear at three months, 
and the fifth pair at twenty to twenty-seven months. A common rule is 
" two broad teeth every year." The wear of the teeth begins to be marked 
about six years. 

The age of the pig is known up to three years by the teeth; after that there 
is no certainty. The temporary teeth are complete in three or four months ; 
about the sixth month, the premolars, between the tusks and the first pair of 
molars, appear ; in six to ten months the tusks and posterior incisors are 
replaced ; in twelve months to two years the other incisors ; the fourth per- 
manent molars appear at six months ; the fifth pair at ten months ; and the 
sixth and last molars at eighteen months. 

Condition and Health. There ought to be a proper amount of fat, which 
is best felt on the false ribs and the tuberosities of the ischium, and the line 
of the belly from the sternum to the pelvis ; the flesh should be tolerably firm 
and elastic ; the skin should be supple. 

As showing health, we should look to the general ease of movements, the 
quick bright eyes, the nasal mucous membrane red, moist, and healthy-look- 
ing ; the tongue not hanging ; the respiration regular, easy ; the expired air 
without odour ; the circulation tranquil ; the excreta natural in appearance. 

When sick, the coat is rough or standing ; the nostrils dry, or covered with 
foam ; the eyes heavy ; the tongue protruded ; the respiration difficult ; move- 
ments slow and difficult : there may be diarrhoea ; or scanty or bloody urine, 
&c. In the cow the teats are hot. 



168 ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIER'S FOOD. 

The diseases of cattle which the medical officer should watch for are 

1. Epidemic Pleuro-pneumonia (a lung disease). Not easily recognised 

at first, but with marked lung symptoms after a few days. 

2. Foot-and-Mouth Disease (murrain, aphtha or eczema epizootica). At 

once recognised by the examination of the mouth, feet, and teats. 

3. Cattle Plague (typhus contagiosus, Steppe disease, Einderpest). 

Eecognised by the early prostration (hanging of head, drooping of 
ears), shivering, running from eyes, nose, and mouth, peculiar con- 
dition of tongue and lips, cessation of rumination, and then by ab- 
dominal pain, scouring, &c. 

4. Anthrax (malignant pustule, carbuncular fever). If boils and car- 

buncles form, they are at once recognised : if there is erysipelas, it 
is called black-quarter, quarter-ill, or blackleg (erysipelas carbun- 
culosum), and is easily seen. 

5. Simple inflammatory affections of the lungs, bronchitis, and simple 

pneumonia. All have obvious symptoms. 

6. Dropsical affections from kidney or heart disease. 

7. Indigestion, often combined with apoplectic symptoms. 

A great number of other diseases attack cattle, which it is not necessary to 
enumerate. All the above are tolerably easily recognised. The presence of 
Tcenia mediocanella'ta cannot, to my knowledge, be detected before death. 

The diseases of sheep are similar to those of cattle ; they suffer also in 
certain cases from splenic apoplexy or " braxy," which is considered by Pro- 
fessor Gamgee to be a kind of anthrax, and is said to kill 50 per cent, of all 
sheep that die in Scotland ; the animals have a " peculiar look, staggering 
gait, blood-shot eyes, rapid breathing, full and frequent pulse, scanty secre- 
tions, and great heat of the body." * 

The smallpox in sheep (variola ovina, clavelee of the French) is easily known 
by the flea-bitten appearance of the skin in the early stage, and by the rapid 
appearance of nodules or papulae and vesicles. 

The sheep is also subject to black-quarter (erysipelas carbunculosum) ; one 
limb is affected ; and the limp of the animal, the fever, and the rapid swelling 
of the limb, are sufficient diagnostic marks. 

The sheep, of course, may suffer from acute lung affection, scouring, red 
water (hrematuria), and many other diseases. Of the chronic lung affections, 
one of the most important is the so-called " phthisis," which is produced by 
the ova of the Strongylus jilaria. This entozoon has not, I believe, been yet 
found in the muscles, and the meat is said to be good. The rot in sheep 
(fluke disease) is caused by the presence of the Distoma hepaticum in large 
numbers in the liver, and sometimes by other parasites. The principal 
symptoms are dulness, sluggishness, followed by rapid wasting and pallor of 
the mucous membrane, diarrhoea, yellowness of the eyes, falling of the hair, 
and dropsical swellings. The animal is supposed to take in the Cercaria 
(the embryotic stage of the distoma) from the herbage. The so-called " gid," 
" sturdy," or " turnsick," is caused by the development of the Ccenurus cere- 
Iralis in the brain. 

The pig is also attacked by anthrax in different forms ; by typhoid, and by 
hog cholera, which may perhaps be a rapid form of typhoid. The swelling 
in the first case, and the scouring, fever, and prostration in the second, are 
sufficient diagnostic marks. In 1864, a severe fever of this kind, with or 
without scouring, prevailed among the pigs in London. 

The so-called measle of the pig is caused by the presence in the muscle of 

* Fifth Report of the Medical Officer to the Privy Council, p. 222. 




CHOICE OF MEAT. 169 

the Cysticercus cellulosus. It is detected in the following way : The "neasle 
trier" throws the pig on its back, draws out and wipes the tongue, and looks 
and feels for the sublingual vesicles containing the Cysticerci. Sometimes a 
bit is cut out of the muscle under the tongue, and the Cysticerci are micro- 
scopically examined. A small harpoon can be used for this purpose, and gives 
little pain. Sometimes the Cysticercus can be seen on the conjunctiva, or on 
the folds of the anus. When the disease is far advanced, the animal is dull, 
the eyes heavy, appetite bad. These symptoms are, however, not peculiar ; 
there is said to be sometimes tenderness in the groin (Greve), but, according 
to Delpech, this is very uncertain ; a better sign is a certain amount of 
swelling of the shoulder, which causes a sort of constriction of the neck, and 
somewhat impedes the movements of the animal (Delpech). The presence of 
the Trichina spiralis (a disease to which no name is yet given) is indetectable 
before death, unless it be also found in the muscles under the tongue. 

SUB-SECTION II. INSPECTION OF DEAD MEAT. 
1. Fresh Meat 

Meat should be inspected, in temperate climates, twenty-four hours after 
being killed ; in the tropics, earlier. 

The following points must be attended to : 

(a.) Quantity of Bone. In lean animals, the bone is relatively in too great 
proportion ; taking the whole animal, 20 per cent, should be allowed. 

(b.) Quantity and Character of the Fat. It should be sufficient, yet not 
excessive, else the relative proportion of albuminous food is too low ; it should 
be firm, healthy looking, not too yellow ; without hemorrhage at any point. 
The kind of feeding has an effect on the colour of the fat ; some oil-cakes 
give a marked yellow colour. 

Professor Gamgee states that pigs fed on flesh have a peculiarly soft 
diffluent fat, and emit a strong odour from their bodies. The same authority 
tells us that the butchers will rub melted fat over the carcass of thin and 
diseased animals, to give the glossy look of health. 

(c.) Condition of the Flesh. The muscles should be firm, and yet elastic ; 
not tough ; the pale moist muscle marks the young animal ; the dark-coloured 
the old one the muscular fasciculi are larger and coarser in bulls than oxen. 
When good meat is placed on a white plate, a little reddish juice frequently 
flows out after some hours. There should be no lividity or marbling on cut- 
ting across some of the muscles ; the interior of the muscle should be of the 
same characters, or a little paler ; there should be no softening, mucilaginous 
fluid, or pus, in the intermuscular cellular tissue. This is an important 
point, which should be closely looked to. The intermuscular cellular tissue 
becomes soft, and tears easily when stretched in commencing putrefaction. 

The presence of Cysticerci or Trichina in the pig, and of the former in the 
cow and ox (giving rise to Taenia mediocanellata), must be carefully looked 
for. The Cysticerci are easily detected by the naked eye as small round 
specks ; and the microscope (twenty to fifty diameters) at once shows their 
real nature. The psoas muscle should be especially examined. When the 
Cysticerci are in great numbers, the flesh crackles on section. The Trichinae, 
when encapsuled, are also often seen by the naked eye as small white specks ; 
the white colour is chiefly owing to lime salts, and disappears when dilute 
hydrochloric acid is added. Leuckhardt recommends putting a piece of flesh 
in a watch-glass with liquor potassse (one part to eight of water) ; the muscle 
is changed into an almost mucous-like, clear mass. The capsules of the before 
invisible Trichina 1 will then be seen as little, sharply-defined white specks, and 



170 ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIER'S FOOD. 

can be readily examined under the microscope. This seems a useful plan. 
Vogel recommends acetic acid; dilute hydrochloric acid is perhaps better. 
When not encapsuled, the microscope alone detects them ; a power of 50 
to 100 diameters is sufficient. It is said that the part of the muscle near 
the tendon is most likely to have them in greatest numbers. 

Professor Gamgee states that in Ireland, among 5427 pigs, 120 (2'2 per 
cent.) were measly. 

In Braunschweig, in 1864, 12,747 pigs were examined, and only one 
trichinous pig was found.* 

It is necessary not to mistake the so-called Eainey's corpuscles for Trichinae. 
These are dark granular masses of an oval figure and with a transparent cap- 
sule, which, when ruptured, discharges oval bodies. The capsules are some- 
times long, and even star-shaped. The nature of Eainey's corpuscles is not, I 
believe, known. 

The degree of freshness of meat in commencing putrefaction is judged of by 
the colour, which becomes paler ; by the odour, which becomes at an early 
stage different from the not unpleasant odour of fresh meat, and by the con- 
sistence. Afterwards, the signs are marked ; the odour is disagreeable, and 
the colour begins to turn greenish. It is a good plan to push a clean knife 
into the flesh up to its hilt. In good meat the resistance is uniform ; in 
putrefying meat, some parts are softer than others. The smell of the knife is 
also a good test. 

(d.) Condition of the Marrow.' In temperate climates, the marrow of the 
hind legs is solid, twenty-four hours after killing ; it is of a light, rosy red. 
If it is soft, brownish, or with black points, the animal has been sick, or putre- 
faction is commencing. The marrow of the fore-legs is more diffluent ; some- 
tiling like honey of a light rosy red. 

(e.) Condition of Lungs and Liver. Both should be looked at, to detect 
the Strongylus filaria in the lungs ; the Distoma in the liver ; also for the 
presence of multiple abscesses. 

(/.) To detect cattle plague, the mouth, stomach, or intestines must be seen ; 
no alterations have as yet been pointed out in the naked-eye appearance of the 
muscles, though under the microscope they are degenerating like the muscles 
in human typhoid (Buchanan). 

But meat cannot be fully judged of till it has been cooked, so as to see 
how much it loses in roasting or boiling ; whether the fibres cook hard, &c. 

In countries where there are goats, the attached foot of the sheep should be 
sent in for identification. 

Decomposing sausages are difficult of detection until the smell alters. Art- 
mann recommends mixing the sausage with a good deal of water, boiling and 
adding freshly prepared lime-water. Good sausages give only a faint, not 
unpleasant, ammoniacal smell; bad sausages give a very offensive, peculiar 
ammoniacal odour. 

2. Salt Meat. 

It is not at all easy to judge of salt meat, and the test of cooking must often 
be employed. The following points should be attended to : 

(a.) The salting has been well done, but the parts inferior. This is at once 
detected by taking out a good number of pieces ; those at the bottom of the 
cask should be looked at, as well as those at the top. 

(b.) The salting well done, and the parts good, but the meat old. Here the 
extreme hardness and toughness, and shrivelling of the meat, must guide us. 

* Virchow's Archiv, band xxxii. p. 554. 



DISEASES PRODUCED BY MEAT. 171 

It would be desirable to have the year of salting placed on the cask of salt- 
beef or pork. 

(c.) The salting well done, but the meat bad. If the meat has partially 
putrefied, no salting will entirely remove its softness ; and even there may be 
putrefactive odour, or greenish colour. A slight amount of decomposition is 
arrested by the salt, and is probably indetectable. Cysticerci are not killed 
by salting, and can be detected. Measly pigs are said to salt badly, but Mr 
Gamgee informs me this is not the case. 

(d.) The salting badly done, either from haste or bad brine. In both cases 
signs of putrefaction can be detected ; the meat is paler than it should be ; 
often slightly greenish in colour, and with a peculiar odour. 

It should be remembered that brine is sometimes poisonous ; this occurs in 
cases where the brine has been used several times ; a large quantity of animal 
substance passes into it, and appears to decompose. The special poisonous 
agent has not been isolated. 

SUB-SECTION III. DISEASES ARISING FROM ALTERED QUALITY OF MEAT. 

A very considerable quantity of meat from diseased animals is brought into 
the market. Professor Gamgee has estimated it at one-fifth, but the amount 
is uncertain. 

Instances are not at all uncommon in which persons, after partaking of 
butcher's meat, have been attacked with serious gastro-intestinal symptoms 
(vomiting, diarrhoea, and even cramp), followed in some cases by severe febrile 
symptoms ; the whole complex of symptoms somewhat resembles cholera at 
first, and afterwards typhoid fever. The meat has been often analysed, for the 
purpose of detecting poison, but none has been found.* In the records of 
these cases, the kind of meat, the part used, and the origin from a diseased 
animal, are not stated, and, in some cases, it may be conjectured that the 
cooking, and not the meat, was in fault. Still, the instances are becoming 
numerous, and are increasing every day, as attention is directed to the subject. 
We should conclude from general principles, that as all diseases must affect 
the composition of flesh, and as the composition of our own bodies is inextri- 
cably blended with the composition of the substances we eat, it must be of the 
greatest importance for health to have these substances as pure as possible. Ani- 
mal poisons may indeed be neutralised or destroyed by the process of digestion, 
but the composition of muscle must exert an influence on the composition of 
our own nitrogenous tissues which no preparation or digestion can remove. 

On looking through the literature of the subject, however, we find less evi- 
dence than might be expected. I cannot but believe this to be, in part, owing 
to imperfect observation, especially when we think for how long a time the 
Trichina disease has been overlooked. I have observed also with interest 
that several of the instances of innocuity of diseased meat, in different authors, 
are taken from Parent-Duchatelet's works on Hygiene from an author, in 
fact, whom it was difficult to convince that injury to health was produced 
by any cause. There appear to be three divisions of this subject, which must 
not be confounded. 

1. The flesh of healthy animals may produce Poisonous Symptoms. This 
is the case with certain kinds of fish, especially in the tropical seas. There 
is no evidence that the animal is. diseased, and the flesh is not decomposed ; it 

* See Professor G-amgee's paper in the Fifth Report of the Medical Officer to the Privy Council, 
1863, p. 287. He refers to cases noted by Maclagan, Taylor, Letheby, Dundas Thomson, and 
Keith. 



172 ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIER'S FOOD. 

produces, however, violent symptoms of two kinds gastro-intestinal irrita- 
tion, and severe ataxic nervous symptoms, with great depression and algidity. 
The little herring (Clupea harengo minor), the silver-fish (Zeus- gallus), the 
pilchard, the white flat fish, and several others, have been known to have these 
effects.* In some cases, though not in all, the poison is developed during the 
breeding time. Ctysters (even when in season) and mussels have been known 
to produce similar symptoms, without any decomposition. The production 
of dyspepsia and nettle-rash in some persons from eating shell-fish need scarcely 
be mentioned. 

Among the Mammalia the flesh of the pig sometimes causes diarrhoea a 
fact I have had occasion to observe in a regiment in India, and which has 
been often noticed by others. The flesh is probably affected by the unwhole- 
some garbage on which the pig feeds. Sometimes pork, not obviously 
diseased, has produced choleraic symptoms. t In none of these cases has the 
poison been isolated. 

2. The flesh of healthy animals when decomposing, is eaten sometimes without 
danger ; but it occasionally gives rise to gastro-intestinal disorder vomiting, 
diarrhcea, and great depression ; in some cases severe febrile symptoms occur, 
which are like typhus, on account of the great cerebral complication. Cooking 
does not appear entirely to check the decomposition. 

It appears to be, in some cases, the acid fluids of cooked meat which pro- 
mote this alteration. 

Sausages and pork-pies sometimes become poisonous from the formation of 
an as yet unknown substance, which is perhaps of a fatty nature. It is not 
Trimethylamine, Amylamine, or Phenylamine these are not poisonous 
(Schlossberger)4 The symptoms are severe intestinal irritation, followed 
rapidly by nervous oppression and collapse. Neither salts nor spices hinder 
the production of this poison. 

Oysters and shell-fish, when decomposing, produce also marked symptoms 
of the same kind. Kotten fish are used, however, by the Burmese, Siamese, 
and Chinese, as a sort of condiment, without bad effects. 

3. The fresh and not decomposing flesh of diseased animals causes in many 
cases injurious effects. A good deal of difference of opinion, however, exists 
on this point, and it would seem that a more careful inquiry is necessary. The 
probability is, that when attention is directed to the subject, the effects of dis- 
eased meat will be found to be more considerable than at present believed. 
At the same time, we must not go beyond the facts as they are at present 
known to us. 

(a.) Accidents. The flesh of animals killed on account of accidents may be 
eaten without injury. 

(&.) The flesh of over-driven animals is said by Professor Gamgee to con- 
tain a poison which often produces eczema on the skin of those who handle 
it; and eating the flesh is said to " have been attended with bad effects." 

(c.) Early stage of Acute Inflammatory Disease. The meat is not apparently 
altered, and it is said that some of the primest meat in the London market is 
taken from beasts in this condition ; it is not known to be injurious, but it 
has been recommended that the blood should be allowed entirely to flow out 
of the body, and should not be used in any way. 

* A list of more than forty fishes, which are occasionally poisonous, is given by Pappenheim. 
Handb. der Sanilats-Pol. band i. p. 395. 

f Kesteven cites a good case, in which twelve persons were affected. Med. Times and 
Gazette, March 5, 1864. 

It is generally thought that the test of the human body is the only plan of detecting this 
poison, but a test is given by Artmann which can be used (see page 170). 



DISEASES PKODUCED BY MEAT. 173 

(d.) Chronic wasting diseases Phthisis, Dropsy, fyc. -The flesh* is pale, 
cooks "badly, and gives rise to sickness and diarrhoea. It also soon begins to 
decompose, and then causes very severe gastro-intestinal derangement. 

(e.) Chronic Nervous fevers. Same as above. 

(/.) Epidemic Pleuro-pneumonia of Cattle. A good deal of doubt exists 
on the effect of this disease on the meat. It would seem hardly possible that 
the flesh should not be seriously altered in composition by so severe a disease, 
but it seems certain that a large quantity of such meat is daily consumed 
without apparent injury. I have been informed by two most excellent autho- 
rities that the Kaffirs ate their cattle when destroyed by the epidemic lung 
disease which prevailed at the Cape some years ago, without injury. Both 
my informants Staff-surgeon Nicholson and Assistant-surgeon Frank made 
very careful inquiries on this point. Dr Livingstone, however, states that the 
use of such flesh produces carbuncle. 

(g.) Anthrax and Malignant Pustule. Many of the older authors (Kamaz- 
zini, Lancisi, quoted by Levy) mention facts tending to prove the danger of 
using the flesh of animals affected with malignant pustule. Chaussier also 
affirmed the same thing, but subsequently modified his opinion considerably. 
The apparent increase in the number of cases of malignant pustule in men has 
been ascribed to eating the flesh of animals with this disease, but it is quite 
as likely that inoculation may have taken place in other ways. 

The evidence laid before the Belgian Academy of Medicine led them to 
believe the flesh of cattle affected with carbuncular fevers to be injurious, and 
it is not allowed to be sold. 

It has been supposed that the outbreaks of boils, which have certainly 
become more prevalent of late years, are produced by meat of this kind, but 
the evidence is very imperfect. 

Menschel* has also lately recorded a case in which twenty-four persons 
were seized with malignant pustule, the majority after eating the flesh of 
beasts suffering from the disease, the others from direct inoculation. Those 
who ate the flesh were attacked in three to ten days ; those who were 
inoculated, in three to six days. In those who ate the flesh the carbuncle 
appeared in two cases on the upper arm, in three on the forearm, in nine on 
the face and head. The gangrenous degeneration rapidly extended. Five died 
of the twenty-four cases. One woman ate flesh and broth ; another ate the 
same flesh but threw away the broth. The first was attacked the second had 
only diarrhoea. This appears to be the most satisfactory case on record. It is 
also stated that pigs fed on the flesh got the disease, and that a woman who 
ate some of the diseased pork was also attacked. 

On the other hand, several old authors, and lately Keffel,t assert that the 
Kirghises constantly eat horses and cattle (either killed or dying spontane- 
ously) affected with malignant pustule without injury. 

Parent-Duchatelet (t. ii. p. 196) quotes a case from Hamel (1737), in 
which a bull infected three persons who aided in killing it, and a surgeon 
who opened one of the tumours of a person affected ; yet, of more than 
100 persons who ate the flesh roasted and boiled, no one experienced the 
slightest inconvenience, and Parent states that many other cases are known in 
literature. 

Parent-Duchatelet and Levy (t. ii. p. 661) quote from Morand (1766) an 
instance in which two bulls communicated malignant pustule to two butchers 
by inoculation, yet the flesh of the animals was eaten at the " Invalides " 

* Preuss. Med. Zeit. 4th June 1862, and Canstatt's Jahresh. 1862, band iv. p. 257. 
t Canstatt's Jahresb. for 1860, band ii. p. 137. 



1*74 ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIEK'S FOOD. 

without injury. But both these instances are of old date. Pappenheim 
(Handb. der Sanitats-Pol. band i. p. 587) states (without giving special 
instances) that there are many cases in which no bad effect resulted from the 
cooked flesh of charbon that the peasants of Posen eat such meat with per- 
fect indifference, and believe it is harmless when boiled. 

With regard especially to the erysipelas carbunculosus, or black-quarter, as 
distinguished from malignant pustule (if it is to be so distinguished), Professor 
Gamgee (Fifth Eeport of Medical Officer to the Privy Council, p. 290) refers 
to cases of poisoning, and two deaths mentioned to him by Dr Keith of 
Aberdeen, caused by eating an animal affected with black-quarter. He 
also notices an instance which occurred " a number of years ago in Dumfries- 
shire," when seventeen persons were more or less affected, and at least one 
died, and states that a number of cases have been related to him by different 
observers. 

The discrepancy of evidence is so great as to lead to the conclusion, 
that the stage of the disease, or the part eaten, or the mode of cooking, 
must have great influence, and that a much more careful study than has yet 
been given to this subject is necessary to clear up these great variations of 
statement. 

(h.) Splenic Apoplexy or Braxy of Sheep. Professor Simonds* states that 
pigs and dogs died in a few hours after eating the flesh of sheep dead of 
braxy. Professor Gamgee (Privy Council Eeport, 1863, p. 280) affirms the 
same thing. On the other hand, the experiments of Alfort (Levy, t. ii. p. 664) 
have shown that pigs, dogs, and fowls are not incommoded by this poison, 
which yet acts violently when swallowed by sheep, goats, or horses. So 
also Dr Smith states, t that the shepherds in the Highlands of Scotland eat 
by preference braxy sheep, and are quite healthy. 

(i.) Smallpox of Sheep. The flesh has a peculiar nauseous smell, and 
is pale and moist. It produces sickness and diarrhoea, and sometimes febrile 
symptoms. 

(j.) Foot-and- Mouth Disease (Aplitlia or Eczema epizootica). Levy* states 
that at different times (1834, 1835, 1839) the aphthous disease has prevailed 
among cattle both at Paris and Lyons, without the sale of the meat being 
interrupted, or giving rise to bad results. The milk of cows affected with 
foot-and-mouth disease has been supposed to cause vesicular affection of the 
mouth in men. The evidence seems to me very uncertain. The discharges 
from the mouth are constantly in the hands of the farm-labourers, who are not 
very cleanly, and who must constantly convey them to their own mouths, and 
yet these discharges, so infectious to other cattle, produce no effect on them. 

(k.) Cattle Plague (Rinderpest, Typhus contagiosus of the French}. A 
priori, such flesh would be considered highly dangerous, and the Belgian 
Academy of Medicine so consider it ; but there is some strong evidence on 
the other side. In Strasbourg and in Paris, in 1814, many of the beasts 
eaten in those cities for several months had Einderpest, and yet no ill 
consequences were traced. But it may be questioned whether they were 
looked for in that careful way they would be at the present day.|| Some 
other evidence is stronger : Eenault, the director of the Veterinary School at 
Alfort, made for several years after 1828 many experiments, and asserts that 

* Agricultural Journal, No. 50, p. 232. f Social Science Trans, for 1863, p. 559. 

J Traite d'Hygiene, 1857, t. xi. p. 663. Jour, of tlie Epid. Soc., vol. i. p. 423. 

|| The words of Coze (Parent-Duchatelet, t. xi. p. 201), are, however, very strong. At Stras- 
bourg he says " Un millier de boeufs de grande taille, malades pour la plupart au plus haut 
degre, puisqu'un assez grande nombre ont ete egorges au moment ou ils allerent expirer, a etc 
consomme, pendant et apres le blocus, et cet aliment n'a produit auciine maladie. 






DISEASES PRODUCED BY MEAT. 175 



there is no danger from the cooked flesh of cattle, pigs, or sheep dead of any 
contagious disease (" Qu'elle que soit la repugnance Men naturelle que puis- 
sent inspirer ces produits."*) So also since the occurrence of the Rinderpest 
in England (1865), large quantities of the meat of animals killed in all stages 
of the disease have been eaten without ill effects. In Bohemia also, in 1863, 
the peasants dug up the animals dead with Rinderpest and ate them without 
bad results, t 

(1.) Rabies in the dog and cow produces no bad effects.:}: 

(m.) The Cysticercus cellulosus of the pig produces Tcenia solium, and that 
of the ox and cow the Tcenia mediocanellata* These worms often arise from 
eating the raw meat, but neither cooking nor salting are quite preservative, 
though they may lessen the danger. Smoking appears to kill the Cysticerci, 
and so, according to Delpech, does a temperature of 212 Fahr. 

(n.) The Trichina spiralis in the pig gives rise to the curious Trichina 
disease caused by the wanderings of the young Trichinae. The affection is 
highly febrile, resembling typhoid or even typhus, or acute tuberculosis, 
but attended with excessive pains in the limbs, and oedema. Boils are also 
sometimes caused. The eating of raw trichiniferous pork is the chief cause, 
and, as in the case of Cysticerci, the entozoon is not easily killed by cooking 
or salting. A temperature of 144 to 155 Fahr. kills the free Trichinae, but 
the encapsuled Trichinae may demand a greater heat (Fiedler). During 
cooking, a temperature which will coagulate the albumen (150 to 155 Fahr.) 
renders the Trichinae incapable of propagation, or destroys them. As a prac- 
tical rule, it may be said that, if the interior of a piece of boiled or roasted 
pork retains much of the blood-red colour of uncooked meat, the temperature 
has not been higher than 131 Fahr., and there is still danger. Intense cold 
and complete decomposition of the meat do not destroy the Trichinae. Hot 
smoking, when thoroughly done, does destroy them (Leuckhardt) ; but the 
common kinds of smoking, when the heat is often low, do not touch the 
Trichinae (Kiichenmeister). 

(o.) The Ecliinococcus Disease. It is well known that many persons will 
eat freely of, and even prefer, the liver of the sheep full of flukes. I am not 
aware that in this country direct evidence has been given of the production 
of liver echinococcus from this cause, but in Iceland the.echinococcus disease, 
which affects from one-sixth to one-eighth of the whole population, is derived 
from sheep and cattle, who in their turn get the disease from the Taenia 
of the dog (Leared and Krabbe). 

(p.) Glanders and farcy in horses do not appear to produce any injurious 
effects on their flesh -when eaten as food. Parent-Duchatelet quotes two 
instances, in one of which 300 glandered horses were eaten without injury. 
(Hyg. Publ. t. ii. p. 194. See also Levy, t. ii. pp. 661, 662.) 

(q.) Medicines, especially antimony, given to the animals in large quanti- 
ties, have sometimes produced vomiting and diarrhoea. Arsenic, also, is occa- 
sionally given, and the flesh may contain enough arsenic to be dangerous. || 

In time of peace the duty of the army surgeon is simple. Under the 

* Payen, "Des Substances Alimentaires," pp. 30, 31. 

f Evidence of Cattle Plague Commission, question 997, and other places. 

J Parent-Duchatelet, t. ii. p. 197, cites a case of seven mad cows being sold without injury 
to those who ate the flesh. 

Aitken's Practice of Medicine, 4th edit. vol. i. p. 857. See also Reports on Hygiene by the 
writer in the Army Medical Report for 1860, 1861, 1862, and 1863, where references to most 
of the early cases will be found. See also Dr Thudidum's Report in Mr Simon's Report to 
the Privy Council, 1864. 

|| Levy, " Traite d'Hygiene," t. ii. p. 666 ; reference to experiments of Danger, Haudin, and 
Chatin. 



176 ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIER'S FOOD. 

terms of the contract, all sick beasts are necessarily excluded. Without 
reference, then, to any uncertain questions of hurtfulness, or the reverse, he 
must object to the use of the flesh of such animals. This is the safe and 
proper course. 

But, in time of war, he may be placed in the dilemma of allowing such 
meat to be used, or of getting none at all. He should then allow the issue 
of the meat of all animals ill with inflammatory and contagious diseases, with 
the exception of smallpox, and perhaps splenic apoplexy in sheep. But it will 
be well to take the precautions 1st, Of bleeding the animals as thoroughly 
as possible ; 2d, Of using only the muscles, and not the organs, as it is quite 
possible these may be more injurious than the muscles, though there are no 
decided facts on this point; and, 3d, Of seeing that the cooking is thoroughly 
done. But animals with smallpox, Cysticerci, and Trichinae, should not be 
used. If dire necessity compels their use, then the employment of a great 
heat in a baker's oven and smoking, if it can be used, may lessen the danger. 
If such things can be got, it would be well to try the effect on the meat of 
antiseptics, especially of the carbolic acid, which destroys low animal life 
with great certainty. 

SUB-SECTION IV. COOKING OF MEATS. 

Boiling. The loss of weight is about 25 to 30 per cent. ; sometimes as 
much as 40. If it is wished to retain as much as possible of the salts and 
soluble substances in the meat, the piece should be left large, and should be 
plunged into boiling water for five minutes to coagulate the albumen. After 
this the heat can scarcely be too low. The temperature of coagulation of the 
albuminoid differs in the different constituents, one kind of albumen coagu- 
lates at as low a heat as 86 if the muscle serum be very acid : another albu- 
men coagulates at 113 Fahr. ; a large quantity of albumen coagulates at 167, 
the haematoglobulin coagulates at 158 to 162, below which temperature the 
meat will be underdone. If the temperature keeps above 1 70, the muscular 
tissue shrinks, and becomes hard and indigestible. Liebig recommends a 
temperature of 158 to 160. Most military cooks employ too great a heat ; 
the meat is shrunken and hard. In boiling, sulphohydrate of ammonia is 
evolved, with odoriferous compounds, and an acid like acetic acid. 

If it is desired to make good broth, the meat is cut small, and put into 
cold water, and then warmed to 150; beef gives the weakest broth. In a 
pint there are about 140 grains of organic matter, and 90 grains of salts. 
Mutton broth is a little stronger, and chicken broth strongest of all. About 
82 per cent, of the salts of beef pass into the broth, viz., all the chlorides, and 
most of the phosphates. 

Broth made without heat, by the addition of four drops of hydrochloric 
acid to a pint of water, and a half pound of beef, is richer in soluble albumen. 
Lactic acid and chloride of potassium added together have the same effect. 
If rather more hydrochloric acid be used, but no salt, heat can be applied, 
and, if not higher than 130 Fahr., nearly 50 per cent, of the meat can be 
obtained in the broth. 

Roasting. The loss varies from 20 to 30 per cent, in beef, it is rather less 
than in mutton (Oesterlen). This loss is chiefly water; the proportion 
of carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen remaining the same (Playfair). 
Roasting should be slowly done ; to retain the juices, the meat must be first 
subjected to an intense heat, and afterwards cooked very slowly ; the dry dis- 
tillation forms aromatic products, which are in part volatilised ; the fat is in 
part melted, and flows out with gelatine and altered extractive matters. The 



PRESERVATION OF MEAT. 177 

fat often, improperly, becomes the perquisite of the cook, and may be lost to 
the soldier. 

Steu-ing. This is virtually the same as roasting, only the meat is cut up, 
is continually moistened with its own juices, and is often mixed with vege- 
tables. Like boiling and roasting, it should be done slowly at a low heat ; 
the loss is then about 20 per cent., and chiefly water. 

In all cases, there is one grand rule, viz., to cook the meat slowly, and with 
little heat, and, as far as possible, to let the loss be water only. The fault in 
military kitchens has been, that excessive heat is used. I have frequently 
seen the water boiling, and the men have told me that, in order to boil the 
vegetables, and yet not overdo the meat, they are obliged to remove the meat 
for a time from the water. The meat is then often a sodden, tasteless mass, with 
hard, shrunken, and indigestible fibres. Happily, one of the improvements 
introduced by Lord Herbert was regular instruction of soldiers in cooking, 
and this is now being carefully done. But medical officers should interest 
themselves in this subject, which is of such importance for health. The 
thermometer will be found very useful, especially in showing cooks that the 
temperature is often much higher than they think. 

In cutting up meat, there is a loss of about 5 per cent., and there is also a 
loss from bone, so that, all deductions being made, the soldier does not get 
more than 5 or 6 ounces of cooked meat out of 12 ounces. In the cooking 
of salt meat, the heat should be very slowly applied, and long continued ; it 
is said that the addition of a little vinegar softens the hard sarcolemna, and it 
is certain that vinegar is an agreeable condiment to take with salt meat, and 
is probably very useful. It may be of importance to remember this in time 
of war. 

It has lately been shown, that the large quantity of flesh-extract contained 
in the brine can be obtained by dialysis. Place the filtered brine in a bladder 
or vessel of the prepared dialysis-parchment, and place it in a large vessel with 
water ; the salt diffuses out, leaving, in three or four days, the extract behind ; 
from two gallons of brine a fluid was obtained, which, on evaporation, yielded 
1 K> of extract (Whitelaw, Chemical News, March 1864). The liquid left in 
the dialyser may be mixed with flour, and then forms a nutritious meat- 
biscuit (Whitelaw). Instead of pure water in the outer vessel, salt water may 
be at first used. An air-bladder will do as a dialyser if the parchment cannot 
be obtained. Mr Whitelaw (Chemical News, May 1864) has also suggested 
a process for converting salt meat into fresh. Place the meat and some brine 
in a dialyser (made of untanned skin, or any material which can be obtained), 
and insert in sea- water. The salt of the brine passes into the sea-water ; the 
salt of the meat into the brine ; and the meat takes up from the brine some 
of the natural juice which has previously passed into the brine. It swells, 
and becomes, in reality, fresh meat. If bags could be procured, this process 
would be very useful at sea. 

SUB-SECTION V. PRESERVATION OF MEAT. 

Meat may be kept for some time by simply heating the outside very 
strongly, so as to coagulate the albumen ; or by placing it in a close vessel, 
in which sulphur is burnt, or by covering the surface with charcoal, or strong 
acetic acid, or weak carbolic acid. Injections of alum and chloride of 
aluminum through the vessels will preserve it for a long time ; water should 
be injected first, and then the solution. Even common salt injected in the 
same way will keep it for some time. So also will free exposure to pure air, 
charcoal thrown over it, and suspended also in the air ; or the meat being cut 

M 



178 



ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIER'S FOOD. 



into smaller portions, and placed in a large vessel, heat should be applied, 
and, while hot, the mouth of the vessel sjiould be closed tightly, with well 
washed and dried cotton-wool ; the air is filtered, and partially freed from 
germs. The application of sugar to the surface is also a good plan. 

Plans of this kind may be useful to medical officers under two circum- 
stances, viz., on board ship, and in sieges, when it is of importance to preserve 
every portion of food as long as possible. The covering the whole surface 
with powdered charcoal is perhaps as convenient as any plan. 

Meat is also preserved in tin cases, either simply by the complete exclusion 
of air ( Appert's process), or by partly excluding air, and destroying the oxygen 
of the remaining part by sulphite of soda (M'Call's process). It is not neces- 
sary to raise the heat so high in this case, and the meat is less sapid. Meat 
prepared in either way has, it is said, given rise to diarrhoea, but this is 
simply from bad preparation ; when well manufactured, it has not this effect. 
(See also chapter on CONCENTRATED FOOD.) 

Meat is also preserved by drawing off the air from the case and substituting 
nitrogen and a little sulphurous acid (Jones and Trevithick's patent), or the 
air can be heated to 400 or 500, so as to kill all germs (Pasteur), and then 
allowed to flow into an exhausted flask. 



SECTION II. 
WHEAT. 

Advantages as an Article of Diet. It is poor in water and rich in solids, 
therefore very nutritious in small bulk ; when the two outer coats are sepa- 
rated, the whole grain is digestible. The nitrogenous substances are large 
and varied, consisting of soluble albumen (1 to 2 per cent.), and gluten (8 to 
12 per cent.), which itself consists of three or four substances (mucin or vege- 
table casein, glutin, or gliadin or vegetable gelatine, which gives the adhesive- 
ness and power of rising in fermentation, and vegetable fibrin).* The starchy 
substances (starch, dextrin, sugar) are large, 60 to 70 per cent., and are easily 
digested ; and, according to Mege-Mouries, a nitrogenous ^substance (cerealin) 
is contained in the internal envelope, which, like diastase, acts energetically 
in transforming starch into dextrin, sugar, and lactic acid. Some consider this 
cerealin to be merely a form of diastase. The salts (see table, p. 151) are 
chiefly phosphates of potash and magnesia. 

Disadvantages. It is deficient in fat, and in vegetable salts which may 
form carbonates in the system. 

* These are the substances found by Ritthausen and Von Bibra. Giinsberg has given rather 
different results ("Watt's Diet, of Chemistry," article Gluten, vol. ii. p. 875). The following 
table is taken from Von Bibra : 

Composition of Gluten from the finest Meal in 100 parts of Gluten (after Von Bibra.) 



\ 1- 


2. 


3. 


4. 


Vegetable fibrin, 


70-95 


71-55 


69-40 


70-48 


Vegetable glutin, 
Vegetable casein, 
Fat, .... 


14-40 

8-80 
5-85 


16-00 
6-53 
5-92 


17-57 
7-30 
5-73 


16-92 
6-33 
6-27 



In poor wheat the vegetable fibrin is larger, the gluten and casein are in much less amount 
sometimes scarcely g. 

The fibrin contains 1*2 per cent, of S. and 

0-3 P. 

The glutin 0-88 S. 
The casein ., 0-68 S. 



K WHEAT AND FLOUK. 179 

lly prepared, the grain is separated into flour and bran ; the mean 
)arts of flour, 16 of bran, and 4 of loss. The flour is itself divided 
into best or superfine, seconds or middlings, pollards or thirds or bran flour. 
In different districts different names are used. The wheats of commerce are 
named from colour or consistence (hard or soft), the hard wheat contains less 
water, less starch, and more gluten than the soft wheat. 

SUB-SECTION I. WHEAT GRAINS. 

The medical officer will seldom be called on to examine wheat grains, but 
if so, the following points should be attended to. The grains should be well 
filled out, of not too dark a colour ; the furrow should not be too deep ; there 
should be no smell, 110 discoloration, and no evidence of insects or fungi. The 
heavier the weight the better. In the Belgian army the minimum weight is 
77 kilogrammes the hectolitre.* In England, good wheat weighs 60 Ib to 
the bushel ; light wheat 58 K), or even 50 lb. The fungi, if present, will be 
found at the roots of the hairs, and if in small amount, are only microscopic. 
If in large amount they cause the diseases known by the name of rust, bunt 
or smut, or dust-brand ; they are owing to species of Uredo and Puccinia. 
(See FLOUR, t) ' If any grains are seen pierced with a hole, and on examina- 
tion are found to be a mere shell, with all the starch gone, this is owing to 
the weevil, and the little insect can itself be found readily enough if a hand- 
ful of wheat be taken, and spread over a large plate. The weevil can hardly 
escape being seen. (See fig. 36, p. 186.) The Acarus farince (see FLOUR) 
may also prey on the wheat grain, but cannot be seen without a microscope. 

SUB-SECTION II. FLOUR. J 

Almost all the bran is separated from the finest flour ; it has been a ques- 
tion whether this is desirable, as the bran contains nitrogenous matter as 
much sometimes as 15 per cent., with 3*5 per cent, of fat, and 5*7 per cent, 
of salts. But if the bran is used, it seems probable that much is left undi- 
gested, and all the nutriment which is contained in it is not extracted (Pog- 
giale). A plan has been lately employed by Mege-Mouries, which seems to 
save all the most valuable parts of the bran ; the two or three outer and 
highly siliceous envelopes of the wheat are detached, and the fourth or inter- 



* Squillier, Des Subsist. Mil. p. 37. 

f The brand of wheat and other cereals is owing to the Uredo or Puccinia, the species being 
sitophilum or segetum. Rye, maize, millet, &c., appear to have their own species. 

+ The following, after Peligot (mean of 14 analyses), may be taken as the mean composition 
of flour. The analyses of Von Bibra (Die Getreidearten und das Brod, 1860) agree very closely 
with it : 

Wheat Flour and Bran. 

In 100 parts. 
Flour. Bran. 

Water, 14 10-3 

Fatty matters, 1-2 2-82 

Nitrogenous substances insoluble in water (gluten), 12-8 10'84 

Nitrogenous substances soluble in water (albumen), 1 '8 1-64 

Non-nitrogenous soluble substances dextrin, sugar, 7 -2 5 -8 

Starch, 597 22-62 

Cellulose,* . 1-7 43-98 

Salts, 1-6 2-52 



This is, however, the cellulose of the entire grain, both of the husk and the interior of the grain. The 
salts are given at page 151 ; the potash, phosphoric acid, and magnesia are the principal ingredients ; the 

s, with the albuminates (Mayer), and 
jran contains much silica. Oudemans 
ic salts higher (4 to 6 per cent.). 

M 2 



.us are given at page iai ; me potasn, phosphoric acid, and magnesi 
earthy phosphates are especially combined, and in definite proportions, 
also the gummy matter (Bibra). The alkaline phosphates free. The bn 
places the cellulose lower (25 to 30 per cent.), and the salts higher (4 to 



180 ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIER'S FOOD. 

nal envelopes are left. Several plans of decorticating wheat have been pro- 
posed, and some of them seem likely to supersede the old system of grinding. 
By a special manipulation and fermentation, Mouries proposes to so far 
alter the cerealin that its energetic action on starch and production of acid is 
lessened, while all the really nutritious parts of the envelopes are preserved.* 
If the whole bran is used, it should be ground very fine, as the harder enve- 
lopes are very irritating, and it is well to remember that for sick persons with 
any bowel complaints bread must be used entirely without bran. I have 
found dysenteries most intractable, merely from attention not being directed 
to this simple point. 

Examination of Flour for Quality and Adulteration. 

Flour should be examined physically, microscopically, chemically, and 
practically by making bread. 

The quality is best determined by chemical examination ; adulterations by 
the microscope. 

Physical Examination. 

Sight. The starch should be quite white, or with the very slightest tinge 
of yellow ; any decided yellow indicates commencing changes ; the amount 
of bran should not be great. 

Touch. There should be no lumps, or, if there are, they should at once 
break down on slight pressure ; there must be no grittiness, which shows that 
the starch grains are changing, and adhering too strongly to each other, and 
will give an acid bread. There should, however, be a certain amount of ad- 
hesion when a handful of flour is compressed, and if thrown against a wall or 
board some of the flour should adhere. When made into a paste with water, 
the dough must be coherent, and draw out easily into strings. 

Taste. The taste must not be acid, though the best flour is slightly acid 
to test-paper. An acid taste, showing lactic or acetic acids is sure to give an 
acid bread. 

Smell. There must be no smell of fermentation or mouldiness. 

Age of flour is shown by colour, grittiness, and acidity. 

Chemical Examination. 

It is seldom that a medical officer will be able to go through a complete 
examination, but he should always determine the following points. 

1. Amount of Water. Weigh 100 grains, spread it out on a dish, and dry 
either by a water bath or in a hot-air bath or oven, the temperature not being 
allowed to go above 200. The flour must not be at all burnt or much 
darkened in colour. Weigh directly the flour is cold ; the loss is the per- 
centage of water. 

The range of water is from 10 (in the best dried flours) to 18 in the worst. 
The more water the greater liability of change in the flour, and, of course, 
the less is the amount of nutriment purchased in a given weight. If, then, 
the water be over 18 per cent., the flour should be rejected; if over 16, it 
should be unfavourably spoken of. 

2. Amount of Gluten. Weigh 100 grains, and mix, by means of a glass 
rod, with a little water, so as to make a well-mixed dough ; let it stand for 
half an hour in an evaporating dish ; then pour a little water on it ; work it 

* See his papers in the "Comptes Rendus de 1'Acad." vols. 37, 38, 42, and Chevallier's Re- 
port, Jan. 1857. 



181 

about with the rod, and carefully wash off the starch ; pour off from time to 
time the starch water into another vessel. After a time, the gluten "becomes 
so coherent, that it may be taken in the fingers and worked about in water, 
the water being from time to time poured off till it comes off quite colourless. 
If there is not time to dry the gluten, then weigh ; the dry gluten is generally 
one-third the weight of the moist (Dumas ; 1 to 2 '9 is perhaps a nearer 
amount). But if there is time, dry the gluten thoroughly, and weigh it. The 
dry gluten ranges from 8 to 12 per cent. ; flour should be rejected in which it 
falls below 8. If there is much bran, it often apparently increases the 
amount of gluten by adhering to it, and should be separated if possible. The 
gluten should be able to be drawn out into long threads ; the more extensible 
it is the better. It is always well to make two determinations of gluten, 
especially if there is any disputed question of quality. When the wet gluten 
is exposed to a temperature of 410 Fahr. in an oil bath, it swells to from 2 
to 6 times its volume, and this has been used as a test of goodness ; the 
greater the swelling, the better the flour.* 

3. Amount of Ash. Take 100 grains, put into a porcelain or platinum 
crucible, and incinerate to white ash. Weigh. The ash should not be more 
than 2 per cent., or probably some mineral substances have been added; it 
should not be less than -8, or the flour is too poor in salts. 

It will not be easy for the medical officer to incinerate the flour, as it re- 
quires a crucible and gas. It is difficult to do it over a spirit lamp, as it 
takes a long time. A small charcoal fire is probably the best plan when ap- 
pliances are wanting. 

If the ash be more than 2 per cent., add hydrochloric acid, and see if there 
be effervescence (carbonate of lime) or magnesia. Dissolve, and test with 
oxalate of ammonia, and then for magnesia, in the same way as in water (see 
p. 23). As flour contains both lime and magnesia, to prove adulteration, the 
precise amount of lime and magnesia must be determined by weighing the 
incinerated oxalate of lime, or the pyrophosphate of magnesia (p. 33). 

If there is no effervescence, add water, and test for sulphuric acid and 
lime, to see if sulphate of lime (plaster of Paris) has been added. In normal 
flour the amount of sulphuric acid is very small. 

Notice, also, if the ash be red (from iron). If clay has been added, it will 
be left undissolved by acids and water. 

If carbonate of magnesia has been added, the ash is light, and porous and 
bulky (HassaU). 

An easy mode of detecting large quantities of added mineral substances is 
given by Eedtenbacher ; the flour is strongly shaken with chloroform ; the 
flour floats, while all foreign mineral substances fall. This is a very useful 
test. 

4. The remaining ingredients can be determined, if necessary, from the 
starch water, but it is seldom necessary to do so. Allow the starch to sub- 
side, pour off the fluid, and wash the starch by decantation, then dry and 
weigh ; take all the water and washings, evaporate to a small bulk, add a little 
nitric acid, and boil ; albumen is thrown down ; collect, wash, and weigh. 
Evaporate the whole of the remainder to dryness, and weigh (mixed dextrin 
and sugar). 

If the water be small, the gluten large, and the salts in good quantity, the 
flour is good, supposing nothing is detected on microscopical examination. 
But in all cases it is well if time can be spared to have a loaf made. 



* Payen, Des Subst. Alim., 4th ed. 1865, p. 278. 



182 



ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIER'S FOOD. 



Practical Test by Baking. Make a loaf, and see if it is acid when fresh, 
and how soon it becomes so ; if the colour is good, and the rising satisfactory. 
Old and changing flour does not rise well, gives a yellowish colour to the bread, 
and speedily becomes acid. Excess of acidity can be detected by holding a 
piece of bread in the mouth for some time, as well as by test-paper. 

Test for Ergot. There is no very good test for ergot when it is ground up 
with the flour. Laneau's plan is to make a paste with a weak alkaline 
solution ; to add dilute nitric acid to slight excess, and then alkali to neu- 
tralisation ; a violet-red colour is said to be given if ergot is present, which 
becomes rosy-red when more nitric acid is added, and violet when alkali is 
added. 

Wittstein considers this method imperfect, and prefers trusting to the pecu- 
liar odour of propylamine (herring-like smell), developed by liquor potass* in 
ergoted flour. I have no experience of this point. 



Microscopical Examination. 

This is especially directed to- determine the relative amount of flour and 
bran, the presence of fungi or acari, or the fact of adulteration by other grains. 

Structure of the Wheat Grain. It is necessary to refer briefly to the struc- 
ture of the grain of wheat, as this, of course, must be thoroughly understood. 




Fig. 26. Transverse Section of Envelopes of Wheat. Scale 1000th of an inch. 

There are four envelopes (some authors make three, others five or six the 
outer coat being divided into two or three), surrounding a fine and very 
loose areolar tissue of cellulose filled with starch grains. 

Envelopes of Wheat, The drawings show the coats in situ, cut transversely 




Fig. 27. Envelopes of Wheat (longitudinal section). Scale 1000th of an inch. 

and longitudinally, also the separate coats. The outer coat is made up of two 
or three layers of long cells, with slightly beaded walls, running in the direc- 
tion of the axis of the grain. The septa are straight or oblique, and, as will be 
seen, the cells differ in length and breadth. The size can be taken by the scale. 
The hairs are attached to this coat, and are prolongations, in fact, of the cells. 



II 



WHEAT AND FLOUR. 



183 



In the finest Hour the hairs and bits of this coat (as well of the other 
coats) can be found. 

The second coat, counting from without, is composed of a layer of shorter 
cells, more regular in size, with slightly rounded ends, and lying at right 
angles to the first coat, or across the axis of the grain. It is impossible to 




Fig. 28. Outer Coat and Hairs of Wheat. Scale 100th of an inch. 

mistake it. The third coat is a delicate diaphanous, almost hyaline mem- 
brane, so fine that its existence has been doubted. Dr Maddox, however, has 
distinctly shown it to have faint lines on it, as seen in the drawing, which may 
be cells. In the transverse section of the envelope it appears as a thin white 
line. Internal, again, to this coat what appears to be another coat can sometimes 
be made out ; it is a very fine membrane, marked with widely separated lines, 







Fig. 29. Outer Coat and Hairs of Wheat. Scale 1000th of an inch. 

which look like the outlines of large round or oval cells. The internal or 
fourth coat, as it is usually called, is composed of one or two layers (in places) 



184 



ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIER'S FOOD. 



of rounded or squarish, cells filled with a dark substance which can be 
emptied from the cells. When the cells are empty, they have a remote 
resemblance to the areolar tissue of the leguminosse, and there is little doubt 




Fig. 30. Second and Third Envelopes of Wheat. Scale 1000th of an inch. 

that from this cause adulteration with pea or bean has been sometimes impro- 
perly asserted. 

The Starch Grains of wheat are very variable in size, the smallest being 
almost mere points, the largest T ^-g-ths of an inch in diameter or larger. In 





Fig. 31. Fourth Envelope of Wheat. Fig. 32.- Fresh Starch-grains of Wheat. (moistened). 
Scale 1000th of an inch. X 360. 

shape the smallest are round ; the largest round, oval, or lenticular. It has 
been well noticed by Hassall that there is often a singular want of inter- 
mediate sized grains. The hilum, when it can be seen, is central, the concen 



WHEAT AND FLOUR. 



185 



trie lines are perceived with difficulty, and only in a small number ; the edge 
of the grain is sometimes turned over so as to cause the appearance of a slight 
furrow or line along the grain. Very weak liquor potassse causes little swell- 
ing ; strong liquor potassse bulges them out, and eventually destroys them. 
There is no difficulty in seeing if the pieces of envelopes are too numerous, 
but it should be remembered the best flour contains some. 




Fig. 33. Dried and then moistened Starch-grains of Wheat. Scale 1000th of an inch. 

Diseases of Flour. Some substances are found in flour, viz., fungi and 
animals. 

Fungi. Several fungi are found in wheat flour. The most' common 
fungus is a species of Puccinia. It is easily recognised by its round dark 
sporangia, which are either contoured with a double line, or are covered with 
little projections. It is said not to be injurious by some, but this is very 
doubtful. The symptoms have not been well described. 

The smut, or caries, is also a species of Puccinia ; has large sporules, and 
gives a disagreeable smell to the flour, and a bluish colour to the bread. It 
is said to produce diarrhoea. 




Fig. 34. Diseased Flour (Puccinia). 

Acarus. The Acarus farince is by no means uncommon in inferior flour, 
especially if it is damp. It does not necessarily indicate that leguminous 
seeds are present, as stated. It is no doubt introduced from the grain in the 
mill, as I have found it adhering to the grain itself. It is at once 
Portions of the skin are also sometimes found. 



186 



ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIER S FOOD. 



Vilriones. These form for the most part in flour which has gone to extreme 
decomposition, and which is moist and becoming discoloured. They cannot 
be mistaken. 




Fig. 35. Acarus farince (x85 diameters). Mites found in flour alive. In the largest 
figures, the insects are considerably compressed, to show the powerful mandibles, and have 
each a ventral aspect. In the smallest and middle-sized insect, we have drawn the dorsal aspect ; 
the former possesses only six legs, as before the first moult ; several ova lie scattered in the field 
of view. It is unknown what office the capsular organs fulfil. They are well seen on each side 
of the largest figure. 

The presence of Acari always shows that the flour is beginning to change. 
A single acarus may occasionally be found in good flour, but even one should 
be looked on with suspicion, and the flour should be afterwards frequently 
examined to see if they are increasing. 



Fig. 36. 
Weevil -Natural size. 




Fig. 37. Weevil. Magnified 12 diameters. 

Weevil (Calandra granaria). The weevil is of course at once detected. It 
is by no means so common in flour as in corn. 

Adulteration* of Wheat-Flour. At present there is very little adulteration 



ADULTERATIONS OF FLOUR. 



187 



of wheat-flour in this country, but should the price rise again, the case will be 
different. Abroad, adulteration is probably more common, and the medical 
officer must be prepared to investigate the point. 

The chief adulterations are by the flour of other grains, viz. : 



Barley, 


Buckwheat, " 




Potato, 


Millet, 




Beans and 


Sarrazin, 




peas, 
Maize, 


Linseed, 
Melampy- 


in some 
countries, 


Oat, 


rum, 




Eye, 


Lolium, 




Eice, 





and other grains noticed farther on. 
All these are best detected by the 
microscope. 

Other adulterations are by mineral 
substances, viz. : 



Alum, 

Gypsum, 

Clav, 



Powdered flint, 
Carbonate of lime 
and magnesia. 




Fig. 38. Barley Longitudinal Section. 



These are best detected by chemi- 
cal examination. (For the detection ScaleVthe samrM^t'onhTstarS-grains. 
of alum, see the chapter on BREAD.) 

Detection of Barley. This is not easy, but can, with care, be often done. 




Fig. 39. 
Outer Coat and Hairs of Barley (low power). 



X 205 

Fig. 40. 
Outer Coat of Barley (higher power). 



TIic envelopes of barley are the same in number as those of wheat, but they 



188 



ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIER'S FOOD. 



are all more delicate. The outer coat has three layers of cells ; the walls of 
the external layer are beautifully waved, hut not headed; the cells are 
smaller than those of the outer coat of Avheat. The second coat, disposed at 
right angles to the first, as in wheat, is like the second coat of wheat, except 
in being more delicate. The third appears precisely the same as that of wheat. 



a 




Fig. 41. -Barley (second and third coats). 

The fourth has the cells similar in shape to the corresponding wheat coat, but 
they are very much smaller, as may be seen on reference to the scale, and 
there are two, or often three, layers. 

The starch grains of barley are very like the wheat, with a central hilum 
and obscure marking, but are on the whole smaller ; some have thickened 
edges, instead of the thin edges of the wheat-starch grain, but it is very 




Fig. 42. Barley (fourth coat). 



Q O 



O > 




Fig. 43. Barley (Starch-grains). 



difficult, and sometimes impossible to distinguish them. It is therefore 
especially to the envelopes that we must attend. 

Detection of Potato Starch. This is a matter of no difficulty; the starch 
grains, instead of being round or oval, and with a central hilum and obscure 



ADULTERATIONS OF FLOUR. 



189 



rings, are pyriform, with an eccentric hilum placed at the smaller end, and 
with well-marked concentric rings. Weak liquor potassae (1 drop of pharma- 
copceial liq. pot. to 10 of water) swells them out greatly after a time, while 




Fi. 44. Potato Starch x 285. 
ee also Plate of Starches. 



Fig. 45. Medium and small-sized Potato- 
starch grains, treated with Liq. Pot. Ph. 
Lond. One-third part and water x 285. 



wheat-starch is little affected by this strength ; if the strength is 1 to 3 (as 
in the figure), the swelling is very rapid. 

Detection of Maize (Indian Corn). There are two envelopes ; the outer 
being made up of seven or eight strata of cells ; there is no transverse second 



K A^mm. 

K : \ /^v-Y' /hz^m-r \>&,A 




Fig. 46. Indian-Corn Flour x 500. 
See also Plate of Starches. 



Cellulose of Indian- Corn x 500, with mark- 
ings from the starch-grains on the inter- 
cellular membrane. 



coat, as in wheat ; the internal coat consists of a single stratum of cells like 
the fourth of wheat, but less regular in shape and size. The cellulose, through 
the seed holding the starch in its meshes, forms a very characteristic struc- 



190 



ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIER'S FOOD. 



ture, which on section looks like a pavement made of triangular or square 
pieces ; the cells are filled with the starch-grains, which are very small, and 
compressed, so as to have facets. They are very different from the smooth, 
uncompressed round cells of wheat. 




Fig. 47. Longitudinal section of Coats of Indian Corn and Cellulose x 190. 

Bits of cellulose, with its peculiar angular markings, are always found if the 
wheat is adulterated with maize. 

Detection of Bean and Pea. TJiese adulterations are also at once dis- 
covered ; the meshes of cellulose are very much larger than those of the 




Fig. 48. Bean Starch x 500. 

fourth coat of wheat, with which it has sometimes been confounded, and the 
starch-grains are also quite different ; they are oval or reniform, or with one 
end slightly larger ; they have no clear hilum or rings, but many have a deep 
central longitudinal cleft running in the longer axis, and occupying two-thirds 
or three-fourths of the length, but never reaching completely to the end ; this 



ADULTERATIONS OF FLOUR. 



191 



cleft is sometimes a line, sometimes almost a chasm, and occasionally second- 
ary clefts abut upon it at parts of its course ; sometimes, instead of a cleft, 




Fig. 49. Bean (transverse section). 

there is an irregular-shaped depression. If a little liquor potassse be added, 
the cellulose is seen more clearly. Pea flour is never added to a greater 
extent than 4 per cent., as it makes the bread heavy and dark. If the flour 
be mixed with a little boiling water, the smell of the pea or bean is per- 
ceptible. 

A chemical test has been given by Donne to detect admixture of garden 
beans. The powder is smeared 
round the inside of a small ves- 
sel ; at the bottom of the vessel 
seven or eight drops of nitric 
acid are allowed to fall, and are 
evaporated by aid of a lamp, 
the vessel being partly covered 
to prevent too rapid evapora- 
tion ; when the flour has partly 
become brown, a few drops of 
ammonia are put in the cap- 
sule, and left to spontaneous 
evaporation. A beautiful red 
colour forms about the centre Fig. 50. -Pea Flour. 

of the flour where the action of the nitric acid has been neither too strong nor 




192 



ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIER'S FOOD. 



too feeble. A lens will pick out at once the red points of the bean flour. 
This reaction must be marked to be of any value.* Several other tests have 
been given, but are imperfect and really unnecessary, for the microscopic 
characters are sufficient. 

Detection of Oat. There are two or three envelopes; the outer longi- 
tudinal cells ; the second transverse, and not very clearly seen ; the third 




Fig. 51. White Oat Long, sect., 2d and 3d coats not separable, a, Compound grains x 190 ; 

b, One do. X 500. 

a layer, usually single, of cells like wheat. The starch-cells are small, many- 
sided, and cohere into composite round bodies, which are very characteristic, 
and which can be broken down into the separate grains by pressure. A high 
power is the best for this. The oat starch does not polarise light. There is 
no difficulty in the detection of the starch-grains. 

Detection of Rice. The husk of rice is very peculiar ; on the outer coat are 
numerous siliceous granules, arranged in longi- 
tudinal and transverse ridges (a). There are 
numerous hairs, some of which are seated 
over stomata. Below this is a membrane of 
transverse and longitudinal rough-edged fibres 
(be), while below these again is a fine mem- 
brane of transverse angular cells (c?), covering 
a very delicate membrane of large cells. 
The starch corpuscles are very small ; angular 
Fig. 52. Ground Rice Flour x 500. under low powers ; under high powers they 

are seen to be facetted and compressed. They 
cannot be mistaken for the round cells of wheat, but may be confounded 




* Stas 1ms given facts which appear to greatly lessen its value. Squillier, Des Subsist. Mil. p. 93. 



ADULTERATIONS OF FLOUR. 



193 



with rnaize. As will be seen on reference to the scale, they are, however, 
much smaller. 




Fig. 53. Rice x 170. Fig. 54. Rice x 170. 

Fig. 53. Transverse section of the Husk of Rice, _ ' I x 170 

Fig. 54. Appearance of Husk as seen in a transparent medium of glycerine and gum, j 
a Siliceoas granules, arranged in longitudinal and transverse ridges, perforated by openings 
stomata, some having hairs seated over them, b c Transverse and longitudinal, brittle, rough- 
edged fibres, d A. fine membrane of transverse angular cells ; these overlie a very delicate 
membrane of large cells e. 

Detection of Eye. The envelopes are very like those of wheat, and can 
perhaps be hardly distinguished. The recent 
starch-grains are also extremely like those of 
wheat, but the older and drier grains have 
sometimes a peculiar rayed hilum. I have seen 
this, however, in very old wheat, but never to 
the same extent as in rye. 

Eye, if in any quantity, is discovered by 
baking ; it makes a dark, acid bread. 

Linseed is not a common adulterant. The 
envelopes are peculiar : the external is made up 
of hexagonal cells, containing oil; the second 
of round cells; the third of fibres; and the 
fourth of angular cells, containing a dark reddish 
colouring matter. 

Sarrazin in France and Belgium 
sometimes used, but is not common, 
adulterations of grain, &c. , in India. 

Buckwheat (Polygonum fagopyrum, or Fagopyrum esculentum). Like rye, 

N 




Fig. 55. Rye-starch,with rayed 
has been hilum ^ after Hassa11 ) x 42 - 
There may also, perhaps, be other 



194 ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIER'S FOOD. 

this is only likely to be found in wheat coming from the Baltic. The 




Fig. 56. Rye 1. Transverse section of Testa, &c. x 108; 2. Coats in situ from without, x 170. 
a External ; b Middle ; c Internal coat ; d Starch-grains x 108. 

drawing sufficiently shows the texture of the envelopes, which is very com- 




n 




Fig. 57. Outer coat of Buck-wheat, ap- Internal coats. The most internal is com 



posed of cells with an irregular waved out- 
line, and longitudinal cells over the starch- 
cells x 170. 



parently of irregular and interlacing 
fibrospiral cells, separable by boiling 
the testa and macerating it. Outside 
these cells is a very thin and delicate 
membrane, retaining the marks of at- 
tachment of the spiral cells x 170. 

plicated. The starch-grains are small and round, and adhere together in 



ADULTERATIONS OF FLOUR. 



195 



masses. Under a high power there are indications of concentric rings. 
Bread made with this grain has a darkish, somewhat violet, colour. 




Fig. 58. Buckwheat Transverse section of outer, middle, and internal 1 x!70. 

coats, with cellulose containing starch-grains, . . J Starch-grains x 500. 

Millet. In India, Egypt, China, and West Coast of Africa, millet of some 




Fig. 59. Millet Seed a Transverse section of Testa coats, seen from inside ; a Outer ; 
b Middle ; c Inner coat x 170 ; <5 Starch-grains x 500. Scale l-1000th inch. 

kind is likely to be an adulteration. Dr Maddox's drawing shows the beau- 

N 2 



196 ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIER'S FOOD. 

tiful structure of the envelopes, which could not be confounded with those of 
wheat. The starch-grains are very small, round, and tolerably uniform in 
size. 

Melampyrum arvense and other species (Purple Cow-wheat Scrophula- 
riacece). This has occasionally been mixed with flour ; it is not injurious, 
but gives the bread (not the flour) a peculiar smoky violet or bluish violet tint. 
This depends on a colouring matter in the seed, which, when warmed with 
acid, gives the violet colour.* 

Tri folium arvense (Trefoil Leguminosce). This also gives the bread a red 
violet colour. It is not known to be injurious. 

Rhmanthus major and minor (Sainfoin or Yellow rattle Scropliulariacece) 
gives bread a bluish-black colour, a moist sticky feel, and a disagreeable 
sweet taste. It is not injurious. 

Lolium temulentum (Rye-grass Graminecs. Other species may be used). 
This gives the bread no colour, but produces narcotic symptoms, vertigo, 
hallucinations, delirium, convulsions, and paralysis. Pellischek states that 
these symptoms do not occur if the grain be dried in an oven before baking, 
or if the bread is left for some days before being used. The detection of the 
lolium is best effected by means of alcohol, which gives a greenish solution 
with a disagreeable repulsive taste, and on evaporation a resinous yellow- 
green disagreeable extract is left. Pure flour gives with alcohol only a clean 
straw-coloured solution, with an agreeable taste (Pellischek). 

Bromus (Brome-grass Graminece ; different species Arvensis or Seca- 
linus). Pellischek states that the seeds of this plant give the bread a dark 
colour, and make it indigestible. It is probably a most uncommon adul- 
teration. 

It will be found that when mixed with flour, the microscope will detect 
readily many of these substances. Detection is often very difficult when the 
flour is made into bread, and, therefore, whenever from the bread there is any 
cause of suspicion, means should be taken to obtain some of the flour. 

Cones flour. A flour obtained from Revet wheat is used by the bakers for 
dusting their trough. Hassall has found this Cones flour to be greatly adulter- 
ated with rice, maize, beans, rye, and barley. Sometimes Cones flour is mixed 
with good flour. All these impurities have been already described. 

Cooking of Flour. 

The effect of heat is to coagulate the albumen, and to transform some of 
the starch into dextrin. Substances are also added to the bread to cause a 
further transformation of the starch. 

Cakes. The unfermented cakes are simply made with water and salt. As 
they are very readily made, are agreeable to taste, and nutritious, it is very 
desirable to teach every soldier to make them \ so that in war, when bread is 
nob procurable, he may not be confined altogether to biscuit. The Australian 
" damper" is simply made by digging a hole in the ground, filling it with a 
wood fire, and, when the fire has thoroughly burnt up, removing it, placing 
the dough on a large stone, covering it with a tin plate, and heaping the hot 
ashes round and over it. In a campaign, every soldier, if he could get flour 
and wood, would soon learn to bake a cake for himself. The only point of 
manipulation which requires practice is not to have the heat too great ; if it 
be above 212 too much of the starch is changed into dextrin, and the cake 

* Pellischek, Schmidt's Jahrb. 1863, No. 3, p. 287. 



BREAD. 



19' 



I 



is tough. Exposed to greater heat, and well dried, the un fermented cakes 
become biscuit. 

Maccaroni is flour of an Italian grain, moistened with water, and pressed 
through a number of small openings, while at the same time heat is applied. 
As it is very nutritious in small bulk, and keeps well, it would be a good food 
for soldiers in war if its cost could be lessened. 

SUB-SECTION III. BISCUIT.* 

To make biscuit, flour is often taken with little or 110 bran (on account of 
the hygroscopic properties of bran) ; but bran is also sometimes used ; no salt 
is added. The simplest biscuits are merely flour and water. Some biscuits 
are made with milk, eggs, &c. 

Choice of Biscuit. Biscuit should be well baked, but not burnt ; of a light 
yellow colour, and should float in water ; when struck, it should give a ring- 
ing sound ; and a piece put into the mouth should thoroughly soften down. 
It should be free from weevils, which are easily seen. 

Advantages as a Diet. As it contains little water (see Table*), and, bulk 
for bulk, is more nutritious than bread, three-fourths of a pound are usually 
taken to equal 1R> of bread ; but different authorities give different numbers. 
Its bulk is small, and it is easily transported. 

Disadvantages. Like flour, it is deficient in fat. After a time, it seems 
difficult of digestion. Perhaps the want of variety is objectionable ; but 
certain it is, that men do not thrive well upon it for long periods. In war, it 
has always been a rule with the best English army surgeons, for more than a 
century, to issue bread as much as possible, and to use biscuit only in cases 
where it cannot be avoided. 



SUB-SECTION IV. BREAD, t 

If carbonic acid gas is in any way formed in or forced into the interior of 
dough,' so as to divide the dough into a number of little cavities, bread is 
made. 

There are three kinds of bread : 

1. Carbonic acid is disengaged by a fermentative process, caused by yeast 
or leaven. During the baking a certain amount of preformed sugar yields 
carbonic acid ; a portion of starch is converted into dextrin and sugar, and 



* Composition of Biscuit : 

Water, . . . . 8 to 12 
Nitrogenous substances, 15 

Dextrin, ... 3 -8 

f* Composition of Bread : 



Sugar, 

Fat, 

Starch, 



1-9 
1-3 
72 to 75 






Water. 


Nitrogenous 
Substances. 


Fat. 


Starches, 
&c. 


English Baker's Bread : 
Maximum nutriment, 


33 


8-57 


1-5 


56-93 


Minimum nutriment, 


44 


6-93 


1 


48-07 


Trench Commissariat : 










Old formula, 


41 


7-2 


1-5 


47 


New formula, 


35 


7-9 


1-5 


52-6 


Austrian Commissariat, 


45-50 


6-2 


1-4 


46 



The nitrogen in 100 parts of dry bread, in eleven different armies, varies from 2-26 per cent. 
(French) to 1 -12 per cent. (Prussian). According to Reichenbach, the crust contains a sub- 
stance (assamar), which has an influence in retarding tissue metamorphosis. 



198 AETICLES OF THE SOLDIER'S FOOD. 

also yields carbonic acid ; a little lactic and butyric acids, and extractive 
matters are formed. It is of importance to prevent this change from going 
too far ; and herein is one of the arts of the baker ; and it is partly to pre- 
vent this that alum is added, which has the property of arresting the change 
(Odling). 

In making bread, the proportions are 20 Ib of flour; 8 to 12 ft> of tepid water ; 
4 oz. of yeast, to which a little potato is added, and 1 J to 2 oz. of salt ; 280 Ib 
of flour (1 sack) will give from 90 to 105 4-ft> loaves ; the baker always endea- 
vours to combine as much water as he can, so as to get more loaves. 6|- Ib 
of dough yield 6 R) of bread. Machines are now generally used for mixing 
the dough (Stevens' Machine). 

2. Carbonic acid is disengaged by mixing carbonate of soda or ammonia 
with the dough, and adding hydrochloric, tartaric, or citric acids. Baking 
powders are compounds of these substances. 

3. Carbonic acid is forced through the dough by pressure (Dauglish's 
patent aerated bread). This process has the great advantage of rendering it 
impossible that the conversion of starch into dextrin, sugar, and lactic acid 
shall go too far. About 20 cubic feet of carbonic acid (derived from chalk and 
sulphuric acid) are used for 280 R> of flour ; and about 1 1 cubic feet are 
actually incorporated with the flour (Odling). 

The Table on page 199 can be used in the following way : 

Determine the percentage of water and of gluten (nitrogenous compounds) 
in the flour. Then learn how many 4-l> loaves are given by a sack of 280 R), 
or how many pounds of bread are given by 100 Ib of flour. 

Then the table will give the amount of water, and of nitrogenous substance 
in the bread. 

As there is vegetable albumen in the flour, as well as gluten, a correction 
should be made by adding one per cent, to the weight of the gluten. 

Advantages of Bread as an Article of Diet. 

It is hardly necessary to mention these. The great amount of nitrogenous 
matters and starch it shares with flour ; the nitrogenous substance is to the 
carboniferous as 1 to 6 -3 (Forbes Watson, Odling). It therefore requires more 
nitrogen for a perfect food. The process of baking renders it more digestible 
than flour. No satiety attends its use, although it may be always made in the 
same way ; this is probably owing to the great variety of its components. 

Disadvantages. It is poor in fat and some salts, especially in the case of 
the finest flour freed from the internal envelope. Therefore we see that the 
practice of using fat with it (butter for the rich, fat bacon for the poor man) 
is extremely common. As to the relative advantages of the three methods of 
making bread, the last (aeration by carbonic acid) is said to have the advan- 
tage of making white bread, though the inner envelopes are left ; of not causing 
any loss of starch, or permitting the change to go too far ; of not containing 
any unwholesome yeast. The system of making bread with yeast has been 
objected to on the ground that bad yeast is often used; the fermentative 
changes go on in the stomach, much carbonic acid gas is disengaged, and 
dyspepsia, flatulence, and unpleasant sensations, such as heartburn, are pro- 
duced. There is no doubt that badly prepared bread gives rise to these 
symptoms, though whether this is owing to bad yeast is, I think, uncertain. 
The second method yields a wholesome bread, but is too expensive for com- 
mon use, and it has also been pointed out that the hydrochloric acid of com- 
merce always contains arsenic. The amount would be too small to be hurtful, 
but might have a medico-legal consequence. 



BREAD. 



199 



o fi 

s>i 



Ss 

II .S 



H.s 



.-s . 



S 



(XJOOOOOOOOGOOOOOOOGOt^t^t^t-t-t^ 
CM CM CM <N *"* 

oooooooooooooot-t~t~i>. 

T-H O OS GO t- 

o 
1> 

_ 05 

cpcp^cqcN^^wiyqcN 

<O O5 00 GO !> CO 1O 1O '^ CO G^J r-H r I <O Oi Oi 

o 

OIC^lCN^CqCqC^iTHr^lrlr li^Hr-(r (r IT I 

Wi^O^COCOCOCOCOCOCO^^-^i'rJH'rh^ 

CO b- t^ 

XO O O 

<n <N co * 

COCOCOCOCOCOCOCO^-*^"^^^^^ 

cqcococococococo^f^^^^^^iQ 
<O '""' C^l CO "^ lO CO t>* 00 O5 O 1 IH 



p;-s 

si 



SI 



II 



51 



*=S 



200 ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIER'S FOOD. 



Special points about Making of Bread. 

Bread may be of bad colour rather yellowish, from old flour ; from grown 
flour (in which case the changes in the starch have generally gone on to a 
considerable extent, and the bread contains more sugar than usual, and does 
not rise well), and perhaps from bad yeast. The colour given by admixture 
of bran must not be confounded with yellowness of this kind. 

Bread is also dark-coloured from admixture of other grains, as already 
noticed under flour (rye, buckwheat, melampyrum, sainfoin, &c.) Bread 
may be acid, from bad flour giving rise to an excess of lactic and perhaps 
acetic acids, or, it is said, from bad yeast. It is bitter from bitter yeast. 

Bread is heavy and sodden from bad yeast fermenting too rapidly, or when 
the fermentation has not taken place (cold weather, bad water, or some other 
cause, will sometimes hinder it), or when the wheat is grown ; when too little 
or too much heat has been employed. It is said, also, that if the flour has 
been dried at too great a heat (above 200), the gluten is altered, and the 
bread does not rise well. 

It becomes mouldy rapidly when it contains an excess of water. 

Rice is used as an addition because it is cheaper ; it retains water, and 
therefore the bread is heavier. Rice bread (if 25 per cent, of rice be added) 
is heavier, of closer texture, and less filled with cavities. Potatoes are some- 
times added, but are generally used only in small quantity with the yeast. 

Alum is added to stop an excess of fermentation, when the altering gluten 
or cerealin acts too much on the starch, and it also whitens the bread ; it 
does not increase the amount of water ; it enables bread to be made from 
flour which otherwise could not be used. Sulphate of copper and of zinc, in 
very small amount, are sometimes employed for the same purpose. 

For acid flour lime water is used instead of pure water ; lime water has this 
advantage that, while it does not check the fermentation of yeast, it hinders 
the action of diastase on starch (Odling). 

After being taken from the oven bread begins to lose weight. The 4-Ib 
loaf loses, 

In the first 24 hours, 1 J ounce. 

In 48 5 

60 7 

70 . . 8f 

But this is merely an average, and is altered by amount of crust, temperature, 
and movement of air. 

Loaves are generally weighed when hot, and that is considered to be their 
weight. In the Austrian army, a loss of 2 '9 per cent, in four days is per- 
mitted. 

When loaves become stale they can be rebaked, and then taste quite fresh 
for twenty-four hours ; after that they rapidly change. 

Old biscuit also, mixed with water, can be rebaked, and becomes palatable. 

In the French army different kinds of bread are used :* ordinary bread ; 
biscuited bread ; bread half biscuited ; bread one quarter biscuited ; hospital 
bread. The " Pain biscuite" is used only on service ; it is baked more firmly 
than ordinary bread. 

Pain de munition ordinaire keeps 5 days in summer and 8 in winter. 
au quart biscuite 10 to 15 days. 

demi 20 to 30 

biscuite 40 to 50 

* Code des Officiers de Sante, 1863. 




BREAD. 201 

The French munition loaf weighs 1-5 kilogrammes (3'3 fi> avoir.), and con- 
tains two rations of 760 grammes (each 1'65 ft)). The ration of biscuit is 550 
grammes (1'2 ft)). 

It would be useful to adopt the practice of strongly baked bread in our 
army ; it is a good substitute for biscuit. 

Compressed Bread. (See Concentrated Foods.) 

Examination of Bread. 

There is perhaps no article on which the medical officer is more often called 
to give an opinion. 

General Characters. There should be a due proportion, not less than 30 
per cent, of crust ; the external surface should be well baked, not burnt ; the 
crumb should be permeated with small regular cavities ; no parts should be 
heavy, and without these little cells ; the partitions between the cavities 
should not be tough ; the colour should be white, or brownish from admix- 
ture of bran ; the taste not acid, even when held in the mouth. If the bread 
is acid the flour is bad, or leaven has been used ; if the colour changes soon, 
and fungi form, the bread is too moist ; if sodden and heavy, the flour is bad, 
or the baking is in fault ; the heat may have been too great, or the sponge 
badly set. 

Chemical Examination. This is conducted chiefly to ascertain the amount 
of water, acidity, and the presence of alum or sulphate of copper. 

Water. Take a weighed quantity (say 100 grains) of crumb, and dry in a 
water bath ; powder, and then dry again in a hot-air bath or oven, and weigh \ 
the water should not be more than 45 per cent. ; if more, the bread is pro 
tanto less nutritious, and is liable to become sooner mouldy. 

Acidity. This can be determined by a standard alkaline solution. (See 
Beer.) At present no observations have been made on this point, but it may 
be important as indicating bad flour. In good bread the acidity on first 
baking is very trifling ; it increases slightly for five or six days. 

Alum. The determination of the presence of alum is not difficult, but the 
quantitative analysis is a very delicate matter, and probably the medical officer 
will act wisely in simply noting the presence, and leaving the question of 
quantity undetermined. Many processes have been proposed,* some of 
which are merely modifications of each other. The following seems the 
most simple : 

1st part. Take at least J ft) of crumb, put in a mortar, and soak it well in 
pure cold water ; filter, and get as clear a fluid as possible ; add a few drops 
of hydrochloric acid, and then chloride of barium. If there is no precipitate 
no alum can have been added, and the process need not be proceeded with. 
If there is a slight precipitate, it may be accounted for by sulphate of lime 
or magnesia in the water added, or of sulphate of magnesia in the salt, or by 
the slight amount of sulphuric acid naturally existing in the grain, or added 
during the grinding. Perhaps the medical officer will know whether the 
water or the salt contains sulphates, and if so, the absence of alum may be 
inferred. If there be a large precipitate, the presence of alum is probable, 
but is not certain, and the process must be continued. 

2d part. Take another ^ ft) of crumb, and incinerate it in an iron or porce- 
lain vessel to black ash, or grey ash if possible. Put in an evaporating dish, 
add a little hydrochloric acid, and evaporate to dryness. This is in order to 

* By Kuhlmanu, Letheby, (Ming, Wentworth, Scott, Crookes, Hassall, Hadow, Horsley. 



202 ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIER'S FOOD. 

render as much silica as possible insoluble. Moisten thoroughly with strong 
hydrochloric acid, add water, and boil ; filter, add carbonate of soda nearly 
to neutralisation, and then an excess of pure potash dissolved in alcohol.* 
The lime and magnesia are thrown down ; the alumina is held in solution. 
Boil and filter. Add an excess of hydrochloric acid and then carbonate of 
ammonia, and boil ; alumina falls ; wash the precipitate well by decantation, 
not using a filter, collect in a small porcelain capsule, dry, and weigh. 

1 grain of alumina = 5 of dry alum. 

= 9 '4 of crystallised alum. 

After weighing, to make assurance doubly sure, moisten with a few drops 
of nitrate of cobalt, and heat in the blow-pipe flame ; a beautiful blue or 
purplish-blue colour should be given. As phosphate of magnesia gives the 
same, this test cannot be used with the ash of bread. 

There is one inaccuracy in the above process ; the alumina always retains 
some phosphoric acid, and therefore the precipitate gives a greater quantity of 
alum than really exists. The difference is not probably material, but if it is, 
the process devised by Mr Crookes should be used,t or the following modifi- 
cation. 

After weighing the precipitate, dissolve in nitric acid, add a piece of 
metallic tin, and boil ; the tin is oxidised and thrown down as stannic acid 
and phosphate ; evaporate to dryness, dissolve in water, filter, and add car- 
bonate of ammonia ; pure alumina falls, dry and weigh. J 

Dr Letheby has also used a decoction of logwood as a test ; a piece of pure 
bread and a piece of suspected bread are put in a glass containing freshly- 
prepared decoction, and left for twenty-four hours ; the pure bread is simply 
stained, the alumed bread is dark purplish, as the alum acts like a mordant. 
Mr Hadow has also used this test with advantage, but Mr Crookes, after many 
experiments, came to the conclusion that it was valueless. The chemical 
test should be therefore always resorted to. 

Alum is not much used except with inferior bread. || The amount of alum 
in bread is said to be, on an average, 3 ounces to a sack or 280 Ib of flour ; if the 
sack gives 105 4-1) loaves, there will be 16 grains in a 4-Ib loaf; if crystallised 
alum is meant by this, there will be only about 8 grains of dry alumlF in a 4-Tb 
loaf. Hassall states the quantity to be J Jb (8 ounces) to 240 K> of flour, but 
that the quantity differs for old and new flour. A very good witness,** in the 
inquiry into the grievances of the journeymen bakers, gave the quantity at 



* Pure liquor potassae is best made by taking 16 parts by weight of solid hydrate of baryta, 
dissolving in water, adding by degrees 9 parts by weight of sulphate of potash dissolved in 
water. After the sulphate of baryta has completely subsided, pour off the clear fluid, eva- 
porate to dryness in a silver or platinum dish if possible, and dissolve in alcohol. Common 
liquor potassse frequently contains alumina, and should be tested as follows : Add a slight, 
excess of hydrochloric acid, and neutralise with ammonia, boil ; if a precipitate occur, the 
liquor potassse must not be used. It is said also that the salt used in making bread may con- 
tain a little alumina ; if so, another fallacy is introduced, and the salt must be examined ; 
but this error must be most trifling. Whenever practicable, the flour should be obtained, and 
military surgeons will generally be able to do this. 

f Mr Crookes' process is given in the " Chemical News," 1862. 

J Article Bread in " Watt's Dictionary of Chemistry," vol. i. p. 660. 

Chemical News, Sept. 1862. 

|| Report on Journeymen Bakers, 1862, p. 164. See also Odiing's Papers. Hassall, however, 
found alum in half the loaves examined. 

IT Mitchell, in his Treatise on the Falsifications of Food, gave a much greater amount ; but 
there is little doubt his alumina was not pure. 

** Report on the Journeymen Bakers, 1862, p. 163. Some of the statements are beyond even 
this amount 1 to 4tt> per 1000 (4-ft> ?) loaves (p. xxxvi.); but this is probably an exaggeration. 




BREAD. 203 

10 ounces per sack ; this would give 41*6 grains per 4-K> loaf. When mixed 
with Hour and baked, the alum is decomposed ; part of the alumina combines 
most strongly with phosphoric acid ; and either this or the alum itself is pre- 
sumed to be in combination with the gluten ; bisulphate of potash is pro- 
bably formed. 

The effects of alum on the flour during baking have been already noticed. 
The effects on health will be presently considered. 

Sulphate of Copper. Cut a smooth slice of bread, and draw over it a glass 
rod dipped in ferrocyanide of potassium. If copper be present a brick-red 
colour is given by the formation of ferrocyanide of copper. This test is very 
delicate. 

Potatoes. If potatoes in any quantity have been added, the ash of the 
bread instead of being neutral is alkaline ; this can only occur from carbonate 
of soda having been added, or from the presence of some salts of organic acid, 
citrates, lactates, tartrates, which form carbonates on incineration. But if it 
be from carbonate of soda, the solution of bread will be alkaline, so that it 
can be known if the alkalinity is produced during incineration. If so it is 
almost certain to be from potato. 

Examination of Yeast. Common brewers' yeast is not likely to be adulter- 
ated. If any solid mineral substances are mixed with German yeast, they are 
detected either by washing or by incineration. Dr Letheby found German 
yeast, imported in 1863, to be adulterated with 30 per cent, of pipe-clay. 

Microscopical Examination of Bread. 

Under the microscope some starch-cells can be seen, but they are generally 
enlarged and partly broken up ; often they are broken up altogether, and form 
little angular masses which might be mistaken for rice starch-grains. The 
gluten forms little stringy masses. Sometimes with a low power some dark 
points are seen ; under a high power, 500 or 600 diameters, these are found to 
be formed of a number of dark little rods joined together. This is a kind of 
bacterium often found in large quantities in yeast, and is carried into the 
bread. It must not be mistaken for an impurity. 

Fungi. The most common fungus is a kind of Penicillium (sitopliilum 
and rose-ami), greenish, brownish, or reddish yellow colour ; sporules, sporangia, 
and mycelium can all be seen. The Oidium aurantiacum has been several 
times detected in France and Algeria ; it is distinguished by its orange-red 
colour. A greenish mucor is often found in bread. I have not yet seen the 
Puccinia so common in flour. 



Microscopical Examination for Adulterations. 

Eice flour cannot be detected unless it is in very large quantity ; then the 
number of small angular grains may create suspicion, often unfortunately 
nothing more than suspicion. Potato starch is often completely broken up, 
and cannot be detected ; if potato itself is used, little masses of it can often 
be found, and some starch-grains with eccentric hilum. Incineration for the 
alkaline ash is useful in this case. 

Bean and pea flour, if more than 4 per cent., give a dark colour to the 
bread ; the starch cells can often be found ; moistening the bread with hot 
water sometimes produces the peculiar smell of the pea. 

The microscopical examination of bread for adulteration is unsatisfactory ; 
the flour should be examined instead, whenever it can be obtained. 



204 ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIER'S FOOD. 



Diseases connected with the Quality of Flour and Bread. 

1. The Flour originally bad. It may be ergoted or grown and fermenting, 
or with fungi forming. Any anomalous disease approaching to ergotism should 
lead at once to an examination of the flour. The fermenting flour produces 
dyspepsia and diarrhoea ; the heat and moisture of he stomach, no doubt, 
excite at once very rapid fermentation ; the gluten, already metamorphosing, 
acts very energetically on the starch, and carbonic acid is rapidly developed ; 
hence uncomfortable feelings, flatulence, imperfect digestion, and diarrhoea. 
It is to remedy this condition of flour that alum is added, and some of the 
effects ascribed to alum may be really owing to the flour. 

The most important disease connected with flour is, however, ergotism ; 
this is less common in wheat than in rye flour, but yet is occasionally seen. 
Sometimes ergoted meal produces at once violent stomach and intestinal 
symptoms, at other times primary digestion is well performed, and the early 
symptoms are great general depression and feverishness, ushering in the local 
symptoms of acrodynia. 

2. Flour originally good, but altering either from age or from not having 
been well dried. The bread is often acid, and sometimes highly so ; this may 
produce diarrhoea, though I have known such bread used for a long time with- 
out this effect ; usually persons will not eat much of it, and thus the supply 
of nutriment is lessened. If the bread be too moist, fungi form, and the 
Oidium aurantiacum, in particular, has been known in Algiers to give rise to 
little endemics of diarrhoea (Boudin and Foster*). The Mucor mucedo either 
does not produce this, or rarely. It should be remembered, however, that 
mouldy oats (the fungus being the Aspergillus) have given rise to paralytic 
symptoms in horses, so that these fungi are to be looked on with suspicion, t 
Professor Varnell also states^ that six horses died in three days from eating 
mouldy oats ; there was a large amount of matted mycelium, and this when 
given to other horses for experiment, killed them in thirty-six hours ; there 
was a " peculiar growth " on the mucous membrane of the small intestine. It 
is not known that the Acarus so common in flour has any bad effects when 
eaten. 

3. Substances added. Alum, of course, is the chief substance ; there has 
been much difference of opinion as to its effects. It has been asserted to pro- 
duce dyspepsia ; to lessen the nutritive value of bread by rendering the phos- 
phoric acid insoluble, and to be also a falsification, inasmuch as it permits an 
inferior flour to be sold for a good one. The last allegation is no doubt correct ; 
the second probably so, as there is little doubt of the formation, and none of 
the insolubility, of phosphate of alumina. The first point is more doubtful, 
though several physicians of great authority (Carpenter, Dundas Thomson, 
Gibbon, Normandy) have considered its action very deleterious, and that it 
causes dyspepsia and constipation. Pereira considered that whatever may 
have been the effect in the case of healthy persons, sick persons did really 
suffer in that way. A question like this is obviously difficult of that strict 
proof we now demand in medicine, and personally I have been able to come 
to no conclusion, except that several persons have told me that the London 
bakers' bread produced in their cases constipation, and this they attributed 
to alum. Seeing, indeed, that the usual effect of bad flour is flatulence and 
diarrhoea, if constipation were decidedly produced by bread, it would be more 



* Archives Gen. de Med., 1848, p. 244. 

f Sanderson's Report in Syd. Soc. Year-Book for 1862, p. 462. 

J Journal of the Society of Arts, April 1865. 



BARLEY. 



205 



likely to proceed from alum than from any other ingredient of the bread. Look- 
ing again to the fact that sometimes "bread has contained large quantities of 
alum, sometimes as much as 40 grains in a 4-K) loaf, and probably more, we 
got an amount in an ordinary meal which (if the phosphate of alumina is 
an astringent) might very well cause constipation. 

Looking, then, to the^ positive evidence, and the reasonableness of that evi- 
dence, it seems to me extremely likely that strongly alumed bread does pro- 
duce the injurious effects ascribed to it. 

The addition of alum is forbidden by law. 

Sulphuric acid is said to be added* before grinding instead of alum ; it has 
the same power of preventing decay. 

Sulphate of Copper. The amount used is so small that it seldom produces 
any symptoms ; still it is possible that some anomalous cases of stomach 
irritation might be owing to this. The Lolium temulentum gives rise to nar- 
cotic symptoms (see ante}. 

Flour from other Grains. It is not known whether the addition of potatoes, 
rice, barley, peas, &c., in any way injures health, except as it may affect 
nutrition or digestion. Occasionally, in times of famine, other substances are 
mixed chestnuts, acorns, &c. In 1835, during famine, fatal dysentery ap- 
peared in Konigsberg, owing to the people mixing their flour with the pollen 
of the male catkin of the hazel bush. In India the use of a vetch, Lathyrus 
sativus, with barley or wheat, gives rise to a special paralysis of the legs, when 
it exceeds j^th part of the flour (Irvine in Indian Annals) ; the L. cicera has 
the same effect, t 



SECTION III. 
BARLEY4 

As an article of diet barley has the same advantages and disadvantages as 
wheat. It is said to be rather laxative (Pereira), and I have myself noticed 

* Dr Angus Smith, Animal Report of the Manchester and Salford Sanitary Association for 
1863. Report of Sub-Committee, 
t For symptoms, see Aitken's Practice of Medicine, 4th edit., vol. i. p. 800. 

J Analysis of Barley Meal and Bran in 100 parts ( Von Bibra). 





In the Meal 
salts omitted). 


In the Bran 

(salts omitted). 


Water, . ... 
Albumen, 
Substances indicated in the term Gluten, 
Gum, 
Sugar, . 
Fat, . 
Starch, . 
Cellulose, 


15 
1-634 
11-347 
6-744 
3-200 
2-170 
59-950 


12 
1-740 
13-103 
6-885 
1-904 
2-960 
42-008 
19-400 



Mineral substances in 100 parts of Barley freed from husks. The husks contain large 

quantities of silicates ( Von Bibra). 

.Percentage of ash in the flour, . . . 2'53 

Potash, 24-36 



Soda, 
Magnesia, . 
Lime, 
Phosphoric acid, 
Sulphuric acid, . 
Silicate of alumina, 
Oxide of iron and loss 















3-64 
9-59 
3-54 
49-40 
2-75 
5-49 
1-33 



100-00 



206 ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIER'S FOOD. 

that either from this cause, or from the imperfect separation of the sharp 
husks, barley bread is particularly unstated for dysenteric cases. It is cer- 
tainly, however, very nutritious, and the Greeks trained their athletes on it. 
Its richness in phosphoric acid and iron render it particularly adapted for 
this. 

Choice of Barley. (Scotch or pot barley, viz., the grain without the husks.) 
For the barley grains the same points are to be attended to as in wheat. 

For the pearl barley (which is merely the grain rounded off), the best tests 
are the physical characters, colour, freedom from dust, grit, and insects, and 
the test of cooking. 

The patent prepared or powdered barley should be examined with the 
microscope ; any kind of cheaper grain may be mixed with it. For figures of 
barley see pages 187, 188. 

Diseases arising from altered quality. These are the same as those of 
wheat viz., indigestion, flatulence, and diarrhoea. I am not aware that there 
is anything peculiar in the action of diseased barley as distinguished from 
wheat. 

SECTION IY. 
OATS.* 

Oats have been considered even more nutritious than wheat or barley, and, 
certainly, not only is the amount of nitrogenous substance great, but the pro- 
portion of fat is large. Unfortunately, the absence of gluten in the nitro- 
genous substance takes away the adhesive property, and bread cannot be 
made ; the amount of indigestible cellulose is large. But, on the other hand, 
oatmeal has the great advantage of being very readily cooked, much more so 
than wheat or barley. 

For this reason, and because it contains much nutriment in small bulk, 
because it can be eaten for long periods with relish, and keeps unchanged for 
a long time, it would seem to be an excellent food for soldiers during war an 
opinion which does not lose in force, when we remember that it formed the 
staple food of one of the most martial races on record, the Scotch Highlanders, 
whom Jackson considered also one of the most enduring. Formerly, when oats 
were badly cleaned, intestinal concretions of the husk and hairs were common 
among those who lived on oatmeal, but these are now uncommon. It has been 
thought to be " heating" when taken continually, but this is probably a 
prejudice. 

Adulterations. Barley-meal and the husks of barley, of wheat, and of oat 
itself, are added very frequently. A single look through the microscope detects 
the round and smooth barley starch ; the envelopes are recognised with very 
little more trouble. Eice and maize are also sometimes used. The drawings 
already given will also enable these substances to be detected. Hassall found 
about half the samples of oatmeal adulterated. 

Choice of Oatmeal. There should be a good proportion of eny elope, but 

* Oatmeal in 100 parts (after Von Bibra). 



Water, .... 12-330 

Albumen, .... 1'524 

Other Nitrogenous Substances, 14 '5 47 

Gum or Dextrin, . . 3 "500 



Sugar, .... 2-243 

Fat, 6-829 

Starch, . 59 '027 



The quantity of fat is very great in oats. The fat is brown-yellow, and more fluid than that 
of wheat or barley. The mineral constituents are very much the same as in the other Cerealia. 



MAIZE AND RYE. 



207 



no branny character, which usually arises from barley husks ; the starch 
should not be discoloured. A microscopic examination should always be 
made, both for adulterations and Acari. 



SECTION V. 
MAIZE AND RYE * 

Both these grains are very nutritious ; maize contains a large quantity of 
yellowish fat (6 to 7 per cent.) It requires very careful cooking, as otherwise 
much passes out undigested. t My friend, Dr Johnston (26th Regiment), has 
communicated to me the particulars of an outbreak of diarrhoea in a military 
prison clearly due to badly cooked maize. It should be soaked in water, but 
not too long (two to four hours), and then thoroughly boiled for several 
hours (four to six) at a rather low heat. Maize cakes are both palatable and 
nutritious. 

Rye makes a very acid dark bread, which causes diarrhoea in those unac- 
customed to it ; custom, however, soon remedies this, and, as far as nutritive 
value goes, it appears equal to wheat. It contains less vegetable fibrine, and 
more casein and albumen, and a peculiar odorous substance. 

Diseases connected with Maize and Rye. 

It is presumed that alterations in the flour will produce the same diseases 
as in the analogous case of wheat. Ergotism is, however, more common in 
rye than any other grain. The Pellagra of Lombardy has been ascribed to a 
fungus (Verderame or Verdet) forming in the maize. Many volumes, with 



Maize (Indian Corn called MuT&ka in India) in 100 parts (Poggiale). 



Starch and Dextrin, 
Cellulose (from the bran), 
Ash, .... 



Water, 13 -5 

Nitrogenoiis substance, . 9-9 

Fat, 6-7 

The amount of fat is very great. 

In 100 parts of Ash (Step/). 

Potash, .... 28-80 Lime, .... 

Soda, .... 3 '50 Phosphoric acid, 

14'90 Iron, Sulphuric Acid, and loss, 

In 100 parts of Rye-flour and Rye-bran (Von Bibra). 

Flour with little Bran. 

14-6 

1-565 

10-191 

4-100 

3-465 



Water, 
Albumen, 

Substances included under gluten, 
Gum or Dextrin, 
Sugar, 
Fat, . 
Starch, 
Cellulose, 
For the salts, see the other table. 

Amount of Ash in 100 of Rye-flour 
Potash, . 29-37 to 37 '54 



1-800 
64-289* 



64-5 
4-0 
1-4 



6-32 

44-97 

1-51 



Bran. 

15-320 

2-150 

15-941 

10-400 

1-860 

4-720 

21.085 

28-533 



Soda, 
Magnesia, 
Lime, . 
Phosphoric Acid, 



3-35 to 0-300 
10-77 to 14-37 

1-34 to 2-63 
50-35 to 42- 



: 2. In 100 of Ash ( Von Bibra). 
Silicate of Alumina, . . 1 '44 
Oxide of Iron, and Sulphuric 
Acid, . . . . 2-38 



t See especially on this point, Edward Smith's " Experiments on Prisoners in Coldbath- 
fields." The food was partly maize, and 40 or 50 grains of nitrogen were passed daily by the 
bowels, no doubt from undigested food. 



* A little cellulose still with the starch. 



208 



ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIER S FOOD. 



different statements, have been written on this point, and it is still doubtful 
whether or not the Verdet has this effect. The evidence is not sufficient, but, 
on the whole, seems to me most in favour of the view which connects Pellagra 
with diseased maize. 

SECTION VI. 



RICE* 

The whole grain (paddy) deprived of the husk is sold as rice. There are 
many varieties, of different colours (white, red, brown ?) and composition. The 
amount of nitrogenous matter varies greatly, from 3 to 7 '5 per cent, of the 
moist grain. As an article of diet, it has the advantage of an extremely 
digestible starch-grain, and, like the other Cerealia, there is a great admixture 
of substances ; it is, however, poorer in nitrogenous substances than wheat, 
and is much poorer in fat, consequently, among rice-feeding nations, legu- 
minous seeds are taken to supply the first, and animal or vegetable fats to 
remedy the latter defect. Rice is also poor in salts. 

Cooking of Rice. It should properly be steamed, not boiled, and the 
steaming should be thoroughly done, else the starch-grains are not swollen 
and digestible. If boiled, it should be for a long time at a low temperature ; 
the rice (or conjee) water contains some albuminous matter, and the grain loses 
in nutritive power. 

Choice of Rice. The grains should be clean, without grit ; the individual 
grains without spots, or evidence of insects. The size varies much, according 
to the kind ; the large kinds usually command the highest market price. 

Comparison of the foregoing Grains Order of Rid 



Nitrogenous 
Substances. 


Fat. 


Starch, &c. 


Salts. 


Wheat. 
Barley. 
Rye. 
Oats. 
Maize. 
Rice. 


( Maize. 
\ Oats. 
Barley. 
Rye. 
Wheat. 
Rice. 


Rice. 
Maize. 
Wheat. 
Rye. 
Oats. 
Barley. 


Barley. 
Oats. 
Wheat. 
Rye. 
Maize. 
Rice. 



SECTION VII. 
MILLET, RAGGY, BUCKWHEAT, GRAM. 

Various other grains belonging to the Cerealia, or to other natural orders, 
but having similar properties, are used as food in different countries. Of 



Water, 
Albumen, . 



Other nitrogenous matters, 
Gum or Dextrin, 



Rice-flour ( Von Bibra), in 100 parts (without salts). 

Sugar, . 
Fat, 



14 

0-050 
7-192 
1-570 



Starch, 



0-390 

0-900 

75-918 

100-000 



The amount of nitrogenous substance is greater than usual. 

The salts amount to from -3 to '85 per cent. ; potash, magnesia, and phosphoric acid are the 
main ingredients, as in the other Cerealia. 




MILLET AND BUCKWHEAT. 



209 



these, the above named are chiefly those the medical officer may have to 
report on. 

Millet is used largely in Africa (west coast), and Algeria, in Italy, Spain , 
Portugal, some parts of India, China, &c. 



English Names. 
Common millet, 

Small millet, 

Spiked millet, 
Golden-coloured millet, 
Italian millet, 
German millet, 



Botanical Names. 



Panicum miliaceum, 



Indian Names. 

(Sawee Chennawaree 

(Hindustani). 



\ i j-j-iiiuusbttiii;. 

(Varagoo (Tamul). 

(Dhurra (Arabic). 
/ Sorghum or Panicum 1 nilftlnTn >r ftTnill < 



-x Cholam (Tamul). 
(Joaror Jowree (Hind.) 

-r, . .,, . . , f Baira or Bairee (Hind.) 

Penicillaria spicata, vr i_ /T- i\ 
( Cumboo (Tamul). 

Sorghum saccharatum, 

Setaria Italica, { ^ ala k f^ 1 ( Hind ) 

( Tenay (Tamul). 



Setaria Germanica. 



Eleusine Corocana, 
The table sufficiently expresses the composition of most of these. 



f Eaggee or Eaggy (Hind., 
Canarese, and Tamul). 
Murha and Maud in the 
K Prov. of Hindustan. 
* 



In IQQ parts of Meal (freed from Bran). 





Panicum miliaceum 
(Common Millet). 


Penicillaria spicata ; 
a kind of Millet 
much used in In- 
dia under the name 
of Bajra. 


Sorghum vulgare, 
Dhurra of the 
Arabs, Joar or 
Jowaree of India. 


Water, 


12-22 


11-8 


11-95 


Nitrogenous substances, 


9-27 


10-13 


8-64 


Dextrin, . 


9-13 




3-82 


Sugar, 


1-80 


... 


1-46 


Fat, 


7-43 


4-62 


3-9 


Starch, . 


59-04 


71-75 


7 . 9 o/ with 
70 23 | husks. 


Silica,, 


0-11 


... 


... 



The ash is about 3 per cent, in Panicum, 2 -6 in Penicillaria, and 1'7 in 
Sorghum. When freed from silica, which is present in large amount, the ash 
contains 20 per cent, of potash, 24 of magnesia, a little soda, no lime, and 
about 50 per cent, of phosphoric acid. 

The other millets (Setaria germanica and Panicum sanguinale) are very 
similar in constitution. 

Millet bread is very good, and some was issued to the troops in the last 
China expedition. This should always be done in a millet country, if wheat 
or barley cannot be got. 

Eaggy or Eagee, Murha and Maud of the upper provinces (Eteusi.ne Coro- 
cana), a millet, is largely used in Southern India (Mysore), and in some parts 

* The native names of the Indian grains and pulses used, especially in Southern India, are 
given very fully in a paper by Mr Elliot (Edinburgh Philosophical Journal, July 1862) ; and 
also in Mr Cornish's excellent paper (Madras Medical Journal February 1864). 

O 



210 



ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIER S FOOD. 



of Northern Hindustan, and is considered even more nutritive than wheat.* 
It is very indestructible, and can be preserved for many years (even sixty) in 
dry grain-pits. 

Buckwheat and Gram are not so likely to be used. The former is poor in 
nitrogenous substances and fat, but makes a fair tasting bread. 

Gram bread or cakes have been occasionally used in India for Europeans, 
and this use might be extended; the cakes are palatable, and extremely 
nutritious, as may be seen by the tables. 

Polygonum Fagopyrum, or Fagopyrum esculentum^ (Buckwheat), used in 
some parts of Russia. 

In 100 parts. 

Water, . . . 12-754 Sugar, . . . 0-914 

Nitrogenous substances, 2 '645 Fat, . . . 0*943 

Dextrin, . . . 2 -850 Starch, . . . 79-894 

The ash is about 1'09 per cent., and contains chiefly potash, magnesia, and 
phosphoric acid. 

Cicer arietinum (Gram or Gram-Dholl of India). 
In 100 parts without husk. 



Water, . . . 11-39 

Nitrogenous matters, . 22*70 

Fat, ... 376 



Starch, 

Minerai matter, . 



63-18 
2-60 



SECTION VIII. 



The Leguminosae, in respect of dietetic properties, are broadly distinguished 
from other vegetables by their very large amount of nitrogenous substance, 
called legumin or vegetable casein. The advantages of peas and beans as 
articles of diet are the great amount of this substance, and the existence of 
much sulphur and phosphorus in combination with the legumin; in salts 

* For the Indian grains and pulses, Dr Forbes Watson's admirable paper can be consulted ; 
also the papers by Mr Elliot and Dr Cornish, already referred to. 
f Other species of Buckwheat are P. tartarium and P. emarginatum. 
+ Composition of the Dried Grain : 





Pisum sativum 
Peas. 


Phaseolus vulgaris 
Kidney Bean. 


Vicia Faba Com- 
mon or Broad Bean. 


Water, 


14-5 


16' 


12-8 


Legumin, albumen, and gluten-like ) 
substances, j 


22-3 


22-5 


22- 


Cellulose, 


4-9 


4.4 


5- 


Starch and Dextrin and Sugar, . 


52-6 


49-9 


52-6 


Fat, 


2- 


2- 


1-6 


Chlorophyll, 


1-2 


... 


... 


Salts, . .... 


2-4 


2-4 


2-5 


Potash, .... 


86 


98 


62 


Soda, .... 


16 


24 


34 


Lime, .... 


1 


23 


15 


Magnesia, .... 


18 


18 


2 


Iron, . .... 


023 


001 


03 


Phosphoric acid, 
Sulphuric acid, .... 
Chloride of potassium, 


85 . 
077 
067 


64 
07 


9 

08 


Chloride of sodium, . 


044 




... 


Chlorine, ..... 


... 


'"025 


06 



PEAS AND BEANS. 



211 



also they are a little richer than the Cerealia, especially in potash and lime, 
but are rather poorer in phosphoric acid and magnesia ; 1 H) of peas contains 
about 168 grains of salts. The disadvantages of peas and beans are a certain 
amount of indigestibility ; about 6 '5 percent, of the ingested pea passes out 
unchanged, and starch-cells, giving a blue reaction with iodine, are found in 
the feces ; much flatus is also produced by the sulphuretted hydrogen formed 
from the legumin. Still, they are a most valuable article of food, and are 
always to be used when much exercise is taken, as they are an excellent 
addition to meat and Cerealia. Both men and beasts can be nourished on 
them alone for some time. Added to rice, they form the staple food of large 
populations in India.* Mr Cornish mentions that, in the Sepoy corps, the 
men are much subject to diarrhoea from the too great use of the "dhoU" 
(Cajanus indicus). 

Choice of Pea. By keeping, peas lose their colour, become very pale and 
much shrivelled, and extremely hard. Anything like decomposition, or exist- 
ence of insects, is at once detected. The powder does not keep very long ; 
the whole peas should be split. 

The microscope should be used to detect the Acarus. The characters of the 
Pea and Bean Starch are given at page 190. 

Cooking of Peas and Beans. They must be boiled slowly, and for a long 
time, otherwise they are very indigestible. If old, no amount of boiling 
softens them ; in fact, the longer they are boiled, the harder they become ; 
they should then be soaked in cold water for twenty-four hours, crushed, and 
stewed ; in this way even very old peas may be made digestible and palatable. 
Chalk- water must be avoided in the case of peas as of other vegetables, as the 
lime-salts form insoluble compounds with the legumin. 

Lathyrus sativus (Kassaree-dholl of India). Occasionally in Europe, and 
constantly in some parts of India, this vetch has been used when mixed with 
wheat or barley flour for bread. When used in too great quantities, it produces 
(without there being necessarily any alteration of the grain?) paraplegia. In 
Bengal, near Allahabad, Dr Irvingt found in some villages no less than from 
10 to 15 per cent, of the people paralytic from this cause. 

From its composition, it would not appear to be innutritions. "Without 
husks, it is composed of 



Chief Indian Peas and Beans (after Forbes WatsSa), in 100 parts (without husks) : 





itf 


03*0 


d 
1 


s 


3j 


! S ~ 




Hi 






&| 


1 


ijj 




Isll 


lH 


f 


-lo 


til 


iif 




if 


1 


I 


I" 


I! 


Si 


Water, . 


11-79 


10-63 


12-44 


10-25 


12-03 


11-84 


Nitrogenous substances, 


27-96 


22-18 


24-73 


38-83 


23-27 


25-15 


Fat, 


1-47 


1-95J 


1-36 


10-51 


2-20 


1-26 


Starch, . 
Mineral Matters, . 


56-36 
2-48 


62-13 
3-11 


58-76 
3-17 


26-65 
4-14 


59-38 
3-19 


59-85 
1-92 



f Indian Annals, 1857. 



A little oil is often mixed with the Dholl, which increases the fatty matter to 3 or 4 per cent. 
Not liked by the Hindus, on account of its red blood-like colour. 

O 2 



212 ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIER'S FOOD. 



Nitrogenous substances, 2 7 '9 6 
Fat, . . . .1-47 
Starches, . . 56 '30 



Ash, . . . .2-48 
Water, . .11-72 



SECTION IX. 

SUCCULENT VEGETABLES. 

Almost all other vegetables are used, not so much on account of nutritive 
qualities, as for the supply of salts ; some of them, however, contain very 
digestible starch and sugar, or other substances, such as pectin or asparagin, 
or peculiar oils which act as condiments, as in onions. 

SUB-SECTION I. POTATOES (SOLANUM TUBEROSUM). 

The composition has been already given (p. 152). The salts are noted below. * 
It will be observed from these, and from the tables already given, that the 
amount of potash and phosphoric acid is not so great as in some other sub- 
stances; the true use of the potato is probably to be found in the large 
amount of salts (malates ? tartrates 1 citrates) which form carbonates on in- 
cineration. The juice of the potato is acid. There is no better anti-scorbutic 
than the potato, and its starch is very digestible. The citric acid is combined 
with potash, soda, and lime. 

As the amount of salts is small, and that of water large, at least 8 to 12 
ounces of potatoes should be taken daily if no other vegetables are eaten ( = 8 
ounces at 1 per cent, of salts contain 35 ; at 1'5 per cent. = 5 2 '5 grains). 

Choice. Potatoes should be of good size, firm, cut with some resistance, 
and present no evidence of disease or fungi. 

A still better judgment may be formed by taking the specific gravity, and 
using the following tables : 

Potatoes. The solids can be determined by taking the specific gravity, and 
multiplying it by a factor taken from the table below, the result is the per- 
centage of solids : 

Specific gravity, F t Specific gravity, F . 

between between factor. 



10611068 1 

10691074 18 

10751082 20 

10831104 22 



11051109 24 

11101114 26 

11151119 27 

11201129 28 



If the starch alone is to be determined, deduct 7 from the factor, and 
multiply the specific gravity by the number thus obtained, the result is the 
percentage of starch. 



* Potato. Percentage amount of asli 1- to 1-5. Mineral constituents in 100 of ash. 

(Way.) (Fromberg.) (Way.) (Fromberg.) 

Potash, . . 46-60 50-23 Chloride of sodium, 3-43 



Soda, 
Magnesia, 
Lime, 

Phosphoric acid, 
Sulphuric 



3-7 Carbonic acid (from ") 



8-70 4-4 

4-54 0-83 

13-30 10-10 

4-66 14-67 



the incineration V13-30 
of organic acids), J 

Oxide of iron, . ? 

Silicate of alumina, 1'95 



Chloride of potassium, ... 11 "76 

The carbonate of potash is produced in the incineration from the vegetable salts (citrate, 
malate, tartrate of potash). An analysis of Vogel's gives no less than 21 per cent, of carbonate 
of potash, and 34 per cent, of carbonate of soda in 100 of ash. 



POTATOES. 



213 



If the specific gravity of the potato is 



Below 


1068 


The quality is very bad. 


Between 


10681082 


inferior. 


Between 


10821105 


rather poor. 


Above 


1105 


good. 


Above 


1110 


best. 



As, however, the medical officer will seldom have an hydrometer which 
will give so high a specific gravity, and must work, therefore, with a common 
urinometer, the following plan must be adopted : Take a sufficient quantity 
of water, and dissolve in it \ an ounce or an ounce of salt, and take the specific 
gravity; then add another J ounce or ounce, and take again the specific 
gravity; do this two or three times, so as to get the increase of specific 
gravity for each addition of a known quantity of salt ; then add salt enough 
to bring up the specific gravity to the desired amount. This is, of course, not 
quite accurate, but in the absence of proper instruments it is the only plan I 
can devise. 

Cooking of Potatoes. The skins should not be taken off, or a large amount 
of salts passes into the water ; using salt water is a good plan, as fewer of the 
salts then pass out. The boiling must be complete, as the starch-grains are 
otherwise undigested, and it must be slow, else the cellulose and albuminates 
are hard. Steaming potatoes is by far the best plan; the heat must be 
moderate ; the steam penetrates everywhere, and there is no loss of salts. 

Preservation of Potatoes. Sugar, in the form of molasses, is the best plan 
on a large scale ; a cask is filled with alternate strata of molasses and peeled 
and sliced potatoes. On a small scale, boiling the potatoes for a few minutes 
will keep them for some time. Free exposure to air, turning the potatoes 
over and at once removing those that are bad, are useful plans.* 

The preserved potatoes are sliced, dried, and granulated, and when well 
prepared, are extremely useful. 

SUB-SECTION II. SWEET POTATO (CONVOLVULUS BATATA). 



Composition per cent. 
Water, . 6 7 '5 to 73 
Starch, . 13 to 16 
Sugar, . 6 to 10 

Pectic acid, 1*2 



Albumen, . . 1'5 
Fat, ... -3 

Salts, . . . 2-9 
Cellulose, . . 2 -5 

This vegetable is very rich in sugar and in salts. It may be usefully 
employed for soldiers, wherever it can be procured, in lieu of potatoes, for 
some time. 

SUB-SECTION III. YAM (DIOSCOREA SATIVA). 



Composition 
Water, 
Albuminates, 
Starch, 
Sugar, 



74 

2 

16 



Pectin, 
Cellulose, . 
Fat, . 
Salts, 



2-8 

2 - 2 

5 

1-3 



This also is a useful vegetable, though inferior to the potato and batata. 
It is largely used for soldiers in the West and East Indies. 



* In the Crimean war there was a considerable loss of potatoes sent 1141 to Balaklava, and at 
a time when the men were most in need of them. The addition of sugar to the raw potatoes 
might have been made. 



214 



ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIER S FOOD. 



SUB-SECTION IV. OTHER VEGETABLES. 

The composition of Carrots and of Cabbage has been already given (p. 149). 
Two or three of the more common may be added 





Water. 


Albumen 
and 
Casein. 


Starch, 
Sugar, and 
Dextrin. 


Fat. 


Woody 
Fibre. 


Mineral 
Substances. 


Turnip (Brassica ) 
rapa), . . J 


90-5 


1-1 


4-0 




2-4 


0-5 


Parsnip (Pastmaca ) 


82-04 


1-215 


6-389 


0-546 


8-022 


1-041 


sativa), . . / 














Jerusalem artichoke ^ 














(Helianthus tube- y 


76-35 


0-9 


19- 


0-9 


1-22 


1-61 


rosus), . . ) 















Other vegetables contain special ingredients, such as asparagin in asparagus 
(a small amount is also contained in potatoes), wax, pectin (C 8 H 7 8 ), which is 
a little more oxidised than starch or sugar ; or peculiar oils and savoury or 
odoriferous matters. 

On account of its volatile oils, the onion tribe is largely used, and is a 
capital condiment, and whenever practicable should be used. 

Onion contains some citrate of lime (for Dried Vegetables, see page 228). 

There are many vegetables which can be employed as anti-scorbutics besides 
potatoes, onions, and green vegetables. The wild artichoke, the Agave 
americana (cactus), are both excellent anti-scorbutics, and the latter is said to 
be better than lime juice. Sorrel, and in a less degree scurvygrass and mustard 
and cress are useful. In New Mexico a salad made of the " lamb's quarter" 
(Chenopodium album), was found very useful.* 

In war almost any kind of vegetables may be used rather than that the troops 
should be left without such food. In one of the Caffre wars, an African corps 
kept free from scurvy by using a sort of grass (?) in their soup. 

The dried vegetables, and especially the dried potato, have considerable 
anti-scorbutic powers ( Armstrong t). The dandelion was largely used in the 
French army in the Crimean war. The American Indians put up for winter 
quantities of dried plums, buffalo berries, and choke berries, and escape scurvy 
(Hamilton's Mil. Surg. p. 212). 

If vegetables cannot be procured, citrate, tartrate, and lactate of potash 
should be given. 



SECTION X. 
COW'S MILK 

A cow gives very variable quantities of milk, according to food and race, 
and age of the calf; perhaps 20 to 25 pints in twenty-four hours is the average 
for the year, but with poor feeding it will fall much below this ; occasionally 
a cow, soon after calving, will give 50 pints, but this is not common. A goat 
will give 6 to 8 pints. 

* Mil. Med. and Surg. Essays prepared for the U. S. Sanitary Coin. 1864, p. 202. 
t Naval Hygiene, p. 112. In the American -war, however, the anti-scorbutic eifects^of the 
dried vegetables have not been found to be very great. 




MILK. 215 



SUB-SECTION I. MILK AS AN ARTICLE OF DIET. 

Milk contains all the four classes of aliment essential to health. Being in- 
tended especially for feeding during growth, the proportions of nitrogenous 
substances and fat, as compared to sugar, are large. 

Average composition of unskimmed milk. A certain proportion between 
the casein, fat, and sugar must exist. 



Per cent. 


Per cent. 


Specific Gravity 
1030. 1026. 


Specific Gravity 
1030 1026. 


4 


3 


Salts, . . . 


6 


5 


3-7 


2-5 


Total Solids, . 


13-3 


9-9 


5 


3-9 


Water, . . . 


86-7 


90-1 



Casein, . 
Fat, . . 
Lactin, . 

In addition to casein, a small quantity of albumen remains in solution after 
the casein has been thrown down, and there is also, according to Millon,* 
another albuminoid substance, which he calls lactoprotein. In cow's milk 
the amount of albumen is said to be 5 -2 5 grammes per litre; the amount of 
lactoprotein is much smaller, but has not been very precisely determined. 

The amount of salts (see page 151) varies from '5 to - 8 per cent., but seldom, 
if ever, exceeds 1 per cent. This is of importance in the detection of adultera- 
tion by salts. In poor milk the salts may be as low as -3 per cent. 

Milk is very largely used in some countries, especially in India and Tartary, 
where the use of the koumiss, prepared from mare's milk, has been supposed 
to prevent phthisis. 

Milk varies in quantity and composition according to 1st, the age of 
cow ; 2d, the number of pregnancies, less milk being given with the first 
calf (Hassall) ; 3d, to the age of the calf, being at first largely mixed with 
colostrum ; 4:th, to the time of day, being slightly richer in solids in the morn- 
ing (Hassall) ; 5th, to the kind of feeding, beet and carrot augmenting the 
sugar ; 6th, and remarkably, according to the race, some cows giving more fat 
(as Alderneys), others more casein (as the long-horns). The last portion of the 
milk given in milking is richest in cream (Hassall). 

The goat's milk is rather richer in solids (144 per cent. Payen), and con- 
tains also a peculiar smelling acid (hircine or hircic acid). Specific gravity, 
1032-1036. 

Ass's milk is rather poorer in solids (9 '5 per cent. Payen). This is owing 
to a small amount of casein and fat ; it is rich in lactin. The specific gravity 
varies from 1023 to 1035. 

The buffalo milk is richer in all the ingredients. 

Taking the total solids of cow's milk at only 10 per cent, (specific gravity 
1026), one pint (20 ounces) will contain, in round numbers 

Casein, 262 grains. 

Fat, 217 

Lactin, 341 

Salts, . 43 



Total, ... 863 
or very nearly 2 ounces avoir, of water-free food. 

To give 23 ounces of water-free food (or one day's allowance for an adult), 
rather more than 11 pints of milk, of specific gravity 1026, are necessary. 



* Comptes Rendus, t. lix. p. 396. 



216 ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIER'S FOOD. 

For an adult this would be far too much water, and the fat would be in great 
excess. But for the rapid formation and elimination of the young, the water 
and fat are essential. It is a question whether, in old age, large quantities of 
milk might not be a remedy for failures in tissue formation and elimination.* 

SUB-SECTION II. ALTERATIONS OF MILK. 

The cream rises in from four to ten hours ; it is hastened by adding warm 
water, but its quantity is not increased (Hassall). 

Milk alters on standing ; it absorbs oxygen, and gives off carbonic acid ; 
placed in contact with a volume of air greater than its own bulk, it absorbs all 
the oxygen in three or four days (Hoppe). The carbonic acid is formed at the 
expense of the organic matter (probably casein Hoppe), and bodies richer 
in carbon and hydrogen are formed ; fat increases in amount, and oxalic acid 
is said to be formed. 

Subsequently lactic acid is formed in large quantities from the lactin ; the 
milk becomes turbid, and finally casein is deposited. The cream which had 
previously risen to the surface disappears. 

Milk given by diseased Cows. 

Milk from diseased animals soon decomposes ; it may contain colostrum, or 
heaps of granules collected in roundish masses, pus cells, or epithelium, and 
occasionally blood. It then soon becomes acid, and the microscope detects 
usually abnormal cell forms, and casts of the lacteal tubes. 

SUB-SECTION III. EXAMINATION OF MILK. 

This is intended first to determine the quality. Put some of the milk in a 
long glass, which is graduated to 100 parts ; a 100 centimetre or litre measure 
will do, or a glass may be specially prepared by simply marking with com- 
passes 100 equal lines on a piece of paper, and gumming it on the glass. 
Allow it to stand for twenty-four hours. By this means the percentage of 
cream can be seen, and the presence of deposit, if any, observed. There should 
be no deposit till the milk decomposes ; if there be, it is probably chalk or 
starch. 

The cream should be from T f -g-ths to iVo* ns \ & ^ s generally about T f -g-ths ; 
in the milk of Alderney cows it will reach T 3 Q-ths or -j^yths. The time of 
year (as influencing pasture), and the breed, should -be considered. 

While this is going on, determine 

1. The Physical Characters. Placed in a narrow glass, the milk should be 
quite opaque, of full white colour, without deposit, without peculiar smell or 
taste. When boiled it should not change in appearance. 

2. Reaction. Eeaction should be slightly acid or neutral, or very feebly 
alkaline ; if strongly alkaline, either the cow is diseased (?), or there is much 
colostrum, or carbonate of soda has been added. 

3. Specific Gravity. The specific gravity varies from 1026 to 1035. A 
very large quantity of cream lowers it, and after the cream is removed, the 
specific gravity may rise. The average specific gravity of unskimmed milk 
may be taken as 1030 at 60 Fahr., and the range is nearly 4 above and 
below the mean. 

The addition of water is best detected by the specific gravity. No doubt, 
the method is not perfect, but its ease of application strongly recommends it. 



* This was a point debated by Galen, so old is this suggestion. It is still undecided. Some 
old persons cannot digest milk. 



MILK. 



217 



The following table shows the specific gravity at 60, with the addition of 
different quantities of water, as determined by several experiments : 



Original specific gravity, , 
9 milk, + 1 water, 



Specific Gravity. 

1030-5 

1027 

1025 

1024 

1021 

1018 

1015 



Specific Gravity. 

1026 
1023 

1019 

1017-5 
1016 



4. Examine chemically for the Amount of the Different Constituents 

(a.) Total solids. Evaporate a known weight to dryness, and weigh. 
Calculate the percentage. The heat must not exceed 240 Fahr. As it is 
difficult to dry it thoroughly, the result is only approximative. A known 
quantity of sulphate of baryta may be added to separate the particles, and 
facilitate the drying. 

(6.) Ash. Incinerate the total solids, and weigh. 

(c.} Casein. Take a weighed or measured quantity; add two or three 
drops of acetic acid, and boil. Add a good deal of water ; allow to stand for 
twenty-four hours ; pour off the supernatant fluid ; wash the precipitate well 
with ether at 80 ; dry, and weigh. Calculate the percentage. 

(d.) Evaporate the ether, and weigh the fat. This requires care, however, 
and the same result can be given by the employment of an instrument called 
a lactoscope, which measures the degree of transparency. The lactoscope of 
Donne has been lately improved by Vogel, and this simple plan can be recom- 
mended for ascertaining the amount of fat in milk. 

Vogel's instrument consists of a little cup, formed by two parallel pieces of 
glass, distant J a centimetre ( = '1968 inches, say T 2 Q-ths of an inch) from each 
other, and closed everywhere except at the top, so as to form a little vessel ; a 
glass graduated to 100 C.C., and a little pipette, which is divided to J C.C., 
are also required. Water (100 C.C.) is placed in the measure, and 2 or 3 
C.C. of milk (which should be first agitated, so as to mix any separated 
cream) are added to it. The parallel glass cup is then filled with this diluted 
milk, and a candle placed about 1 metre from the eye ( = 39-37 inches) is 
looked at ; if the candle is seen, the milk is poured back into the large mea- 
sure ; more milk is added to it, and it is poured again into the parallel glass, 
and the light is again looked at ; the experiment ends when the contour of 
the light is completely obscured. The candle should be a good one, but the 
difference in the amount of light is not material. ' The percentage amount of 
fat in the milk is then calculated by the following formula (which has 
been determined by a comparison of the results of the instrument, and of 
chemical analysis) : x being the quantity of fat sought ; and m the number 
of C.C. of milk, which added to the 100 C.C. of water, suffice to obscure the 
light. 

23-2 



0-23 



m 



If, for example, 3 C.C. of milk, added to the 100 of water, were sufficient 

to obscure the light, the percentage of fat is 

90.9 

x = 1 + -23 = 7-96 per cent, 
o 

From this formula the following table has been calculated, which enables 
us to read off at once the percentage of fat : 



218 



ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIER'S FOOD. 



C.C. 

Milk. 


= 


Per cent, 
of Fat in 
the Milk. 


C.C. 
Milk. 




= 


Per cent, 
of Fat in 
the Milk. 


Ito 


lOOof waterobscures the light = 23-43 


14 to 100 of waterobscures the light = T88 


1-5 


11 11 


15-46 


15 


,, 


,, 


1-78 


2 


11 11 


11-83 


16 


,, 


11 


1-68 


2-5 


11 11 


9-51 


17 


11 


11 


1-60 


3 


11 11 


7-96 


18 


11 


11 


1-52 


3-5 


11 11 


6-86 


19 


11 


11 


1-45 


4 


11 11 


6-03 


20 


55 




1-39 


4-5 


11 11 


5-38 


22 


55 





1-28 


5 


11 11 


4-87 


24 


11 


5) 


1-19 


5-5 


11 11 


4-45 


26 


11 


n 


1-12 


6 


11 11 


4-09 


28 





11 


1-06 


6-5 


11 11 


3-80 


30 


11 


11 


1-QO 


7 


11 11 


3-54 


35 


11 


11 


0-89 


7-5 


11 11 


3-32 


40 


11 





0-81 


8 


11 11 


3-13 


45 


11 


11 


0-74 


8'5 


11 11 


2-96 


50 


11 


11 


0-69 


9 


11 11 


2-80 


55 


11 


11 


0-64 


9-5 


11 11 


277 


60 


11 





0-61 


10 




2-55 


70 


11 


11 


0-56 


11 


11 11 


2-43 


80 


11 


11 


0-52 


12 


11 11 


2-16 


90 


11 





0-49 


13 


5, 


2-01 


100 





11 


0-46 



If, for example, 1 cubic centimetre of milk to 100 of water obscures the 
light, the percentage of fat is 23-43 ; if 8 cubic centimetres, added to 100 of 
water, are needed to obscure the light, the percentage is 3-13, &c. ; so that in 
four or five minutes an analysis of the milk is made, as far as the fat is con- 
cerned. 

The advantage of this is obvious, both in detecting the removal of cream, 
and in seeing if milk is rich in butter. 

(e.) Determine the amount of lactin by the polariscope, or by the copper 
solution. To do this, take 10 C.C. of milk, free it from casein and fat by 
warming, and the addition of a very small quantity of acetic acid ; then add 
90 C.C. of water. The whey being filtered, and the quantity known, put it 
into a burette, and drop it into a boiling solution of 10 C.C. of standard 
copper solution, diluted with water, until the fluid is colourless, i.e., until the 
blue colour disappears, and yet no yellow is seen. Read off the amount of 
whey used, and divide by 10 ; the result is the amount of milk which exactly 
decomposes 10 C.C. of the copper solution. The 10 C.C. of the copper solu- 
tion equal 0-08571 grammes of lactin.* The amount of lactin in the 10 
C.C. of milk is then known by a simple rule of three ; and the amount in 100 
C.C. of milk is at once obtained by shifting the decimal point one figure to 
the right. 

Preparation of the copper solution. Take 34*64 grammes of pure sulphate 
of copper, and dissolve in about 200 C.C. of water ; dissolve in another vessel 
173 grammes of tartrate of soda and potash, in 480 C.C. of caustic soda (or 
potash, if the caustic soda, as is probable, is not in the surgery) ; mix slowly, 
and dilute with distilled water to one litre. 

1 C.C. = 0-005 grammes of glucose 
1 C.C. = 0-008571 grammes of lactin. 



* This number is deduced from Bigaud's observations (Schlossberger, Lehrb. der Org. Cheni. 
1860, p. 753), which show that 17143 grammes of lactin are required to reduce the quantity of 
copper reduced by 1 gramme of grape sugar. Lately Millon (Chemical News, January 1865) 
has asserted that 1 '375 grammes of lactin are equal to 1 gramme of cane sugar. 



MILK. 219 

5. Examine the milk microscopically. The only constituents of milk are 
the round oil globules of various sizes in an envelope and a little epithe- 
lium. The abnormal constituents are epithelium in large amount, pus, con- 
glomerate masses, and casts of the lacteal tubules. The added ingredients may 
be starch grains, portions of seeds, and chalk (round and often highly refract- 
ing bodies, with often a marked double outline, and at once disappearing in 
acid). Colostrum, occurring for three to eight days after the birth of the calf, is 
composed of agglomerations of fat vesicles united by a granular matter. 
Infusoria are sometimes found in milk. 

Scheme for a Short Examination. 

If milk is agitated with three or four volumes of sulphide of carbon, and 
then allowed to stand, the sulphide separates highly charged with an aromatic 
matter, which, on spontaneous evaporation of the sulphide, can be obtained 
as an unctuous imponderable residue, which possesses the aroma of the food of 
the animal (Millon). 

As a medical officer is constantly called upon to examine milk, and will 
seldom have time to go thoroughly into all the points just noted, the following 
short scheme will be useful : 

1. Put some milk into the long glass for deposit, and for determining per- 
centage of cream. 

2. Take physical characters, reaction, and specific gravity. 

3. Determine fat by Vogel's milk test. 

The comparison of the specific gravity, and the amount of cream which 
rises, or of fat, will be found to give, in conjunction with the physical cha- 
racters, a very good idea of the quality of the milk. 

SUB-SECTION IV. PRESERVATION OF MILK. 

1. Boiled, the bottle quite filled, and at once corked up and well sealed, 
the milk lessens in bulk, and a vacuum is formed above. It will keep for 
some time. A little sugar aids the preservation. If the heat is carried in a 
close vessel to 250 Fahr., the milk is preserved for a very long time, even for 
years ; the butter may separate, but this is of no consequence. 

2. Sulphurous acid passed through it, or sulphite of soda added. This 
may be done after boiling. 

3. A little carbonate of soda and sugar added, without boiling. This will 
keep for ten days or a fortnight. 

In the market are milk in tins, preserved in the usual way, by exclusion 
of air, and dessicated milk. This last is milk carefully dried at a low tempe- 
rature, with probably a little sugar. Dissolved well in water, it forms an ex- 
cellent milk (see Concentrated Food, p. 228). 

The preserved liquid milk* often has the butter separated ; if so, it may be 

* A sample of French preserved milk, which I examined in 1862, was a good specimen of its 
class. It was in a glass bottle, well corked and sealed. The butter was separated, and con- 
sisted of 96 grains of fat and 4 of casein per cent. The liquid, without the butter, had a spe- 
cific gravity of 1039. The milk had a pleasant taste, and was very feebly acid. In a few hours 
the acidity increased, and in forty-eight hours the casein had separated. The percentage com- 
position was 

Casein, 4-140 

Fat, ... 4-230 

Lactin, .... 5'460 

Salts, -804 

Water, . 85'366 



100-000 

Tliis milk had apparently been preserved simply by boiling, and corking the bottle while Hit 
milk was hot. It had kept perfectly fresh for more" than a year. 



220 ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIER'S FOOD. 

spread on bread. It is not easy to remix it with the milk, but it is said that 
the separation may be prevented by adding a little yolk of egg to the 
milk. 

SUB-SECTION V. ADULTERATIONS. 

1. Water. This is extremely common, and is, in fact, generally the only 
adulteration, best detected by specific gravity or evaporation. 

2. Starch, dextrin, or gum, to conceal the thinness and the bluish colour 
produced by water. Not a common adulteration. Add iodine at once for 
starch ; boil with a drop of acetic acid, and add iodine for dextrin, or add 
acetate of lead and then ammonia, a white precipitate falls. 

3. Annatto or turmeric added to give colour. Liquor potassse at once de- 
tects turmeric. By boiling the milk, the colouring matter remains in the 
serum. 

4. Emulsions of seeds (hemp or almond), added; this is uncommon. Boil. 
The albumen of the seeds coagulates ; the milk will not mix with tea. Hemp- 
seed gives an unpleasant odour to the milk (Normandy). 

5. Chalk, to neutralise acid, and to give thickness and colour. Let it stand 
for deposit ; collect and wash deposit, and add acetic acid and water ; after 
effervescence filter, and test with oxalate of ammonia. 

6. Carbonate of soda. Very difficult of detection unless the milk be alka- 
line. Determine the ash, and see if it effervesces ; if so, either some carbonate 
has been added, or if the soda have united with lactic acid, this will be con- 
verted into carbonate, and enough lactic acid to give an effervescing ash does 
not exist in good milk. 

7. Milk is often boiled to preserve it it may then take up from the vessel 
lead, copper, or zinc, if these metals are used. 

Cream is adulterated or made with carbonate of magnesia, tragacanth, and 
arrowroot. The microscope detects the latter, and particles of carbonate of 
magnesia (round) can also be seen and be found to disappear with a drop of 
acid. 

SECTION XL 
BUTTER 

As an article of diet, butter supplies to most people the largest amount of 
fat which they take. Many persons take from 1J to 2 oz. daily, if the butter 
used in cooking be included, and the average amount for persons in easy cir- 
cumstances is 1 oz. daily. Butter appears to be easily digested by most per- 
sons, except when it is becoming rancid. It then causes dyspepsia and 
diarrhoea, and as a rule it may be said that decomposing fats of all kinds 
disagree. 

COMPOSITION AND EXAMINATION. 

1. The average amount of water varies from 5 to 10 per cent. Hassall has 
found as much as 15| per cent, in fresh, and 28^ per cent, in salt butter. 
The retail dealer, by beating up the butter in water endeavours to increase 
the amount. This can be detected by evaporation in a water bath ; if the 
quantity of water be very large, melting the butter will show a little water 
below the oil. 

2. Casein. All butter contains some casein, as some milk is taken up with 
the cream. The best butter contains least. The amount can be told roughly 
by melting in a test-tube. The casein collecting at the bottom does not ex- 
ceed one-third of the height of the contents of the tube in the best butter, or 



BUTTER. 221 

between one-third and one-half in fair butter. In bad butter it may reach to 
more than this. A better plan is dissolving the fat by ether, washing and 
then weighing the remainder ; the casein then weighs from 5 to 3 grains in 
every 100 of very good butter. In bad butter it is much more than this. 

The rancidity of butter is chiefly owing to changes in the fat, produced 
apparently by alterations in the casein, and therefore the greater amount of 
casein the more the chance of rancidity. 

3. The fat amounts to from 86 to 92 per cent. ; sometimes other fats 
lard, beef, and mutton dripping are used as adulterants. Butter oil consists 
of margaric, butyric, caproic, and other fatty acids, combined with glycerine. 
It is entirely soluble in ether at 65 (Horsley), and does not deposit. In this 
respect it diifers from beef and mutton suet, which, if they dissolve, do so 
with greater difficulty, and deposit. The ether should be added gradually 
(Horsley) and need not be measured. Horsley says 20 grains should dissolve 
in 60 drops ; Ballard thinks this is not enough.* The fat begins to melt at 
70 or 80, and is entirely melted at about 120. Beef dripping begins to 
melt at 90 to 100, and is entirely melted at 120 to 130. Mutton drip- 
ping commences to melt at about 100, and is entirely melted at about 150. 

The melting-point of butter fat is then slightly below that of beef, and a 
good deal below that of mutton dripping, and this test, taken in connection 
with the ether test, may be useful. 

The best way of taking the temperature is to put a small quantity of butter 
into a test-tube ; immerse it well in water, and heat the water gradually, ob- 
serving its temperature by a thermometer. 

The taste of butter fat when melted, separated from the casein, and allowed 
to cool, is very characteristic ; while that of mutton fat is also distinguish- 
able. 

Hassall has pointed out that butter under the microscope presents only oil 
globules, while lard contains numerous crystals of margaric and stearic acids. 
If any membrane is mixed with the butter, it is at once detected by the 
microscope. 

4. Salt is added to all butter ; in fresh butter it should not be more than 
5 to 2 per cent., and in the salt butter it should not exceed 8 per cent. To 
determine the amount of salt, wash a weighed quantity of butter thoroughly 
with distilled water, and determine the ^chloride of sodium by the standard 
solution of nitrate of silver (see WATER, p. 28). 

5. Potato or other starch is sometimes added. It is a rare adulteration, and 
at once detected by iodine, either used at once or after melting. Gypsum and 
sulphate of baryta have, it is said, been added. This must be rare, and would 
be at once detected by melting and pouring everything off the insoluble 
powder, or by incinerating. 

SCHEME FOR A SHORT EXAMINATION. 

1. Determine quality by the taste of the whole butter, by the taste of the 
melted and recongealed fat, and by the smell. 

2. Melt in a tube for the approximate amount of casein. 

3. If necessary determine melting-point and solubility in ether. 

4. Examine with microscope for animal membranes, crystals of stearine, or 
starch globules, and, if necessary, test with iodine under microscope. 

Preservation of Butter. Pouring water which has been boiled over butter 

* Chemical News, January 1862. See this and other papers for an interesting discussion on 
the examination of butter by Ballard and Horsley. 



222 ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIER'S FOOD. 

will keep it for some time ; but a better plan is one discovered by M. Breon,* 
viz., water acidulated slightly (3 grammes to 1 litre) with acetic or tartaric 
acid, is added, and the whole is placed in a close-fitting vessel. Sugar also 
has a preventative effect, especially when mixed with a little salt. 

SECTION XII. 
CHEESE. 

As an Article of Diet. It contains a very large amount of nitrogenous 
matter in small bulk (page 149), and as it is agreeable to the palate, it must 
be an excellent food for soldiers in war. About ^ Ib contains as much nitro- 
genous substance as 1 Ib of meat, and Jd of a S> as much fat. It does not, 
however, keep well in warm climates. 

The quality is known by the taste. The only adulteration is from sub- 
stances to give weight. Starch is chiefly employed, and can be detected at 
once by iodine. There is usually about 5 or 6 per cent, of salt. 

Sulphate of copper and arsenious acid are sometimes used to destroy insects ; 
the rind is then the most poisonous part. Copper is detected by ammonia 
or ferrocyanide of potassium. Arsenic by any test (Reinsch's or Marsh's). 

The Acarus domesticus, Aspergillus glaucus (blue and green mould), and 
Sporendomema casei (red mould), form during decay. During decay the fat 
augments at the expense of the casein ; leucin is produced, and baldrianic and 
butyric acids. Lactic acid is also often produced by the lactin of the milk 
contained in the cheese. The aroma of cheese partly arises from this decom- 
position, and the production of volatile acids. 

SECTION XIII. 
EGGS. 

It is needless to say anything of eggs as an article of diet ; they contain 
albumen and fat in very digestible forms. 

Composition and Choice. An egg weighs from 600 to 950 grains, or even 
more ; the average weight is about 2 ounces avoir. ; 10 parts are shell, 60 
white, and 30 yolk ; the white conflfeins 86 per cent, of water ; the yolk 52 
per cent.; 100 grains of egg, therefore, contain, 
10 grains shell. 
22 - 8 albumen and fat. 
67-2 water. 



100-0 

If an egg weighs 2 ounces, it contains nearly 200 grains of solids ; this is a 
convenient number to remember, as 100 grains correspond to 1 ounce. 

For choice, look through the egg ; fresh eggs are more transparent in the 
centre ; old ones at the top. Dissolve 1 ounce of salt in 10 ounces of water ; 
good eggs sink ; indifferent swim. Bad eggs will float even in pure water. 

Preservation. Eggs are packed in sawdust or salt, or are covered with 
gum or oil, or placed in lime-water, with a little cream of tartar.t Boiling 
for half a minute also keeps them for some time ; in fact, anything which 
excludes air. 

* Payen Des Subst. Alim. 4th ed. p. 179. 

f It is said that covering them with a solution of bees-wax in warm olive oil (Jd of bees-Wax, 
ds of olive oil) will keep them for two years. (Chemical News, August 1865, p. 84.) 



ARROWROOT. 



223 



The lime-water gives them, it is said, a peculiar taste, and makes the albu- 
men more fluid. 

SECTION XIV. 
SUGARS AND STARCHES.* 

SUB-SECTION I. SUGAR. 

Choice and Examination. The sugar should be more or less white, crys- 
talline, not evidently moist to the touch, and should dissolve entirely in water, , 
or leave merely small fragments, which on examination with the microscope 
will be found to be bits of cane. The whiter the quality the less is the per- 
centage of water, which varies in different kinds of sugar, from about '25 
per cent, (in the finest sugars), to 9 or even 10 per cent, (in the coarse brown 
sugars). 

The unpurified sugars contain albuminous matters which decompose, and a 
sort of fermentation occurs. The Acarus, or sugar mite, is usually found in 
such sugar, which is not known to be hurtful. Eungi also are very frequently 
present. 

Method of Examination. 

1. Determine physical characters of colour, amount of crystallisation, &c. 

2. Dissolve in cold water ; fragments of cane, starch, sand, gypsum, phos- 
phate of lime are left behind ; test with iodine for .starch. The best way is 
to dissolve under the microscope, as all adulterations are at once detected. 

3. Determine percentage of water by drying thoroughly 100 grains and 
again weighing. 

4. Excess of glucose (a little is always present) is detected by the large 
immediate action on the copper solution. 

SUB-SECTION II. ARROWROOTS. 

Maranta Arrowroot (West Indian). The chief kind is obtained from the 
Maranta arundinacea. The quality of Maranta arrowroot is judged of by 
whiteness ; by the grains being 
aggregated into little lumps, and 
by the jelly being readily made, 
and being firm, colourless, trans- 
parent, and good tasted. The 
jelly remains firm for three or 
four days without turning thin or 
sour, whereas potato flour jelly in 
twelve hours becomes thin and 
acescent. Under the microscope 
the starch grains are easily identi- 
fied. They are slightly ovoid, 
like potato starch, but have a 
mark or line at the larger end 




Fig. 60. West Indian Arrowroot (Maranta 
arundinacea.) Scale l-1000th of an inch. 



(the hilum of the potato starch 
is at the smaller end), the con- 
centric lines are well marked. The 
most common adulterations are sago, tapioca, and potato starch. All these 
starch grains are readily detected. 

Curcuma Arrowroot. Arrowroot obtained from the Curcuma has the same 



* A plate of drawings of some starches by Dr Maddox is given further on, in addition to tht 
woodcuts. 



224 



ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIEfi'S FOOD. 



physical characters as Maranta, but under the microscope the starch grains are 
large and oblong, marked with very distinct concentric lines, which, however, 
are not entire circles, having an indistinct hilum at the smaller end. 

Manihot Arrowroot. This is 
obtained from Eio. The starch- 
grains are very marked. 

Tacca or Otaheiti Arrowroot. 
I have never seen this arrowroot, 
but Hassall gives a figure which 
shows that the starch-grains re- 
a, semble those of the Manihot. 

Arum Arrowroot. The Arum 
or Portland arrowroot has small, 
angular, and facetted starch-grains, 
which cannot be confounded with 
any of the former. They are a 
little like maize. This is some- 
times called Portland Sago. 

British or Potato Arrowroot. 
Under the term " Farina," potato 




Fig. 61. Rio or Manihot Arrowroot. 
Scale 1-lOOOth of an inch. 



starch is sold in the market j so white and crackling, and making so good 
a jelly, that it is not always easy to distinguish it from Manihot. The 
microscope at once detects it (see page 188). The pear-shaped grains, the 
marked hilum towards the smaller end, and the swelling with weak liquor 
potassse, render a mistake impossible. In making the jelly a much larger 
quantity is required than of the Maranta arrowroot. 

Canna or Tous les Mois Arrowroot. The starch-grains are like those of 
the potato, but much larger, and the concentric lines are beautifully marked 
and distinct. 

SUB-SECTION III. TAPIOCA. 

This is obtained from the finest part of the pith of Jatropha manihot or 
Cassava. 

Under the microscope the starch-grains are small, with a central hilum ; 
and sometimes three or four adhere together and form compound grains. 




Fig. 62. Tapioca. Scale 1 -1000th of an inch. 

It is adulterated with sago and potato starch, both of which are easily 
detected by the microscope. 



pim. 





, 





















. 


















x 















\ e 

3 . 






:* 

" ^v<3^ ir.^ y <tf^rWS4 rf 







i -% 




1. Potato Starci. 4. S* Vincent Arrowroot 7. Rio Arrowroot 

2. Bermuda Arrowroot 5. Sago of Commerce 8. Tapioca 



CONCENTRATED AND PRESERVED FOOD. 225 



HUB-SECTION IV. SAGO. 

The best kinds are derived from the sago palm (Bogus farirdf era), but the 
sago of the Cycas circinalis is also sold ; it is, however, inferior. 

Granulated sago is either " common" or " pearl;" the latter is chiefly used 
in hospitals. The starch is soluble in cold as well as in hot water. The 
starch-grains are elongated, rounded at the larger end, and compressed at the 
other ; and hence their shape is quite different from the potato starch. The 
hilum is a point, or more often a cross, slit, or star, and is seated at the 
smaller end, whereas, as in the Maranta arrowroot, the hilum is at the larger 
end. Eings are more or less clearly seen. 

In the market is a factitious sago made of potato flour. This is sometimes 
coloured red or brownish, either from cochineal or sugar. In thirty speci- 
mens Hassall found five to be fictitious. The microscope easily detects 
potato starch. 

SECTION XV. 
CONCENTRATED AND PRESERVED FOOD. 

For the military surgeon this subject is so important, that it is desirable to 
put the chief facts under a separate section. 

It is obvious how important it must be in time of war to have a food 
which may be at once nutritious, portable, easily cooked, and not liable to 
deterioration. Land's sagacious mind long ago saw this, and he strongly 
urged the advisability of having on board ship prepared food of this kind. 
It must be remembered, however, that a man must get his 260 to 300, or 
even 350 grains of nitrogen, and 8 to 12 ounces of carbon, in each twenty- 
four hours, besides some hydrogen and salts. The work of the body when 
in activity cannot be carried on with less ; and at present these elements 
cannot be presented to us in a digestible form in a smaller bulk than 22 or 
23 water-free ounces. Concentration at present cannot be carried beyond 
this, and practically has not really been carried to j;his point. Life, however, 
and vigour may for some days be preserved with a much less amount ; and I 
have reduced the total amount of food to 1 1 water-free ounces daily, with full 
retention of strength for seven days, though the body was constantly losing 
weight. For expeditions of three or four days, if transport were a matter of 
great difficulty, soldiers might be kept on 10 or 12 ounces of water-free food 
daily, provided they had been fully fed beforehand, and subsequently had 
time and food to make up the tissues of their own body, which would be 
expended in the time, and would not be replaced by the insufficient food. 

When we inquire into the concentrated foods now in the market, some of 
which profess to supply all the substances necessary for nutrition, we find 
them not very satisfactory. They are often not so concentrated as they 
might be, or are deficient in important principles, or are disagreeable to the 
taste. 

Meat Biscuits. These biscuits, or powders, for they are generally pjowdered, 
and sold in canisters, are formed by mixing rich extract of meat with wheat 
flour, and drying. The biscuit of Mr Gail Borden, of Galveston, in Texas, 
contains equal parts of meat-extract and flour dried (made in a Papin's 
digester). A biscuit like this has been very much "used in the American war. 
The inventor represents that 10 K) will last a man for fourteen days, or at 
the rate of 11 -2 ounces a-day, but this is clearly an exaggeration. The 

p 



226 ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIER'S FOOD. 

biscuit, after being powdered, is soaked in cold water for a few minutes, then 
boiled from twenty to thirty minutes. 

French Meat-Biscuit. This is similar, except that dried vegetables are 
added. The " biscuit-viande" of Callamond contains 

Dry flour, . . . 76*45 per cent. 

meat, . . . . 5*79 

Fat, 6-27 

Dried meat, . . . . 2-77 

Spices and sugar, . . . -92 

Water, 7-8 



100-00 
The taste is not agreeable. 

Another French meat biscuit is prepared by M. de Beurmann, and obtained 
a medal at the Exhibition of 1851. Its composition is probably similar. 

Blood Biscuit. A patent was taken out some years ago (1855) by M. 
Kohrig, which aimed at preparing a biscuit with dried blood, mixed with 
boiled rice, and potato and wheat flour. This does not appear to have ever 
come into use. 

Carniset.* Under this title Messrs Gehrig and Grunzig, of Berlin, have 
made a food, which is sold under the form of little millet-like grains, and is 
flavoured in two or three ways. The composition of the most nutritious 
kind is 

Nitrogenous substances, . . 35*28 per cent. 

Fatty 4-25 

Starchy 34*68 

Salts, ..... 8*8 

Water, .... 16*99 

It is cooked very rapidly, but is not palatable. It is used with bread ; and 
8 ounces daily, with 10 ounces of bread, making a total amount of water-free 
solids of about 12J ounces avoir., maintains the strength and vigour for six 
or eight days fairly, but the body loses weight. It appears to be a meat- 
extract mixed with the flour of a cereal, either wheat or barley. It is defi- 
cient in fat and salts. 

Rata Francaise au Gras. Small cakes, of a very strongly flavoured meat, 
mixed with salt and flour, are sold under this term in Paris. 15 grammes 
( = 231 grains) are mixed with 1J pints of water, and make a soup, which, 
when mixed with vegetables, is not unpalatable. The Prussian army, in 1861, 
was kept for a fortnight on pea-soup flavoured with Eata ; a little bacon and 
salt were added, and the men were kept in good health. It contains about 
5 per cent, of nitrogenous substance, so that the supply of nitrogen in this 
form is very small. 

Meat-Biscuit (Author's). Not feeling satisfied with any of the meat-bis- 
cuits I found in the market, nor seeing why an extract should be used in 
preference to the meat itself, I have made some meat-biscuits, in a very 
simple way, by mixing together, cooking, and baking 1 Ib flour, 1 Ib meat, 
J ft) fat (suet), J ft) potatoes, with a little sugar, onion, salt, pepper, and 
spices. A palatable meat-biscuit, weighing about 1J ft), containing 10 to 12 
per cent, of water, is then obtained, which keeps quite unchanged for four 



* See a paper on this food by the Professors of the Army Medical School. Army Medical 
Report for 1861, p. 386. 



CONCENTRATED AND PRESEKVBD FOOD. 

months. I have not yet had an opportunity of keeping men on this food, 
but I have no doubt it would answer better than the Carniset. A man could' 
easily carry 8 Tb weight, which would be sufficient for five days. It requires, 
of course, no subsequent cooking ; but if opportunity offered, it might be 
made into soup. 

After I had made this meat-biscuit, I observed that Dr Christison (Report 
of the lioyal Sanitary Commission, 1858) had suggested a simple process of 
this kind. 

. These appear to be the chief attempts at combining meat and flour, but 
there are various other foods in which concentration is attempted. 

Dried Meats. Meat dried at a very low heat has been brought into the 
market by Verdeil. It has lost the greater part of its water, is hard, and re- 
quires very careful cooking, but is believed to be nutritious when well prepared. 

Messrs M'Call of London have also prepared an excellent dry meat ; it 
is sold in packets, each of which weighs 4 oz., and is intended for one meal. 
It contains salt and pepper, and 12 per cent, of water. 

Under the terms Tasajos and Charqui, two kinds of meat are prepared in 
South America ; it is probable that these terms have not always been used in 
the same sense. According to Mr Bridges Adams,* Tasajos is meat cut in 
thin slices, dipped in brine, and then partially dried. Charqui is thin strips 
of muscular fibre from which the fat is removed, dried rapidly by sun heat, 
and sprinkled with maize. The salted dried meat (Tasajos), analysed by 
Hassall, gave from 29 to 59 per cent, of water; 15 to 41 per cent, of nitro- 
genous substances; 3 to 12 of fat, and 11 to 20 of salts. 

The dried meat of the Kaffirs is very much the same ; great hunks of beef 
are sun-dried, and remain undecomposed for a long time. So also in Egypt 
the meat is dried by exposure to the sun and north wind. 

The Pemmican of the arctic voyagers is a mixture of the best beef and fat 
dried together, and is an excellent food, though rather expensive. 

Liebig's Extractum Carnis is the juice of meat extracted on the following 
plan. Every particle of meat, fat, &c., is taken off the bones, and is then 
subjected for some time to a moderate heat ; a viscid dark extract at last 
collects, which contains the salts, creatin, and other organic nitrogenous sub- 
stances. Mixed with warm water, this extract gives a highly agreeable and 
nutritious beef-tea or mutton broth. One K> of mutton gives about 2-5ths of 
an ounce of extract. It has the remarkable property of not decomposing ; 
Liebig has had some for fifteen years in a bottle loosely stoppered. 

The composition of the Extractum Carnis is, according to my analysist 

In 100 parts. 

Water, 15-084 

Organic matter, insoluble in ether, . . . 58*869 

soluble . . . 3-210 
Combined lactic acid = 5 grains, less 1 -363 weighed as 

carbonic acid in the ash, . . . . 3*637 

Fire-proof soluble salts, 16-055 

insoluble salts, ..... 3*145 



100-000 

The amount of nitrogen is 10*14 per cent. In an ounce of the extract there 
are 



* Journ. of the Soc. of Arts, March 1865. 
t Army Medical Report, vol v. p. 455. 

P 2 



228 ARTICLES OF THE SOLDIER'S FOOD. 

Nitrogen, . . . . 44-36 grains. 

Phosphoric acid, . . . 20'92 

Potash, . 8-72 

Lactic acid, . . . 40 -51 

It supplies these substances in larger proportion than any other food ; it is 
very stimulating and restorative, and, in proportion to its bulk, very nutritious, 
as far as nitrogen and salts are concerned. 

The "extract of beef," or "concentrated beef-tea," is beef-tea and the 
juices of the compressed beef mixed and evaporated.* This is a highly nutri- 
tious substance, and most useful to the army surgeon. Mixed with wine, and 
given as soon as possible after wounds are received, in the time of shock and 
collapse, it was found in the Austrian army (in 1859) to save the lives of many 
wounded men, and the experience of the Federal American army is to the 
same effect (Hammond). 

Dried Cerealia. Many flours, if well dried, will keep for a long time. 
Hard's " farinaceous food for infants" is wheat flour baked. Densham's 
" farinaceous food" is composed of 3 parts wheat flour and 1 part of barley, 
dried at a heat of 200 Fahr. It loses from 25 to 30 per cent, in weight. 
The Russian Government formerly used a cake composed of a mixture of oat- 
meal and malt (2 parts to 1) ; it was baked, and formed an agreeable article of 
food. When placed in water in a warm place, a slight fermentation goes on, 
and a kind of beer is produced. I have kept these cakes unaltered for more 
than a year. Liebig's food for infants is composed of equal parts of wheaten 
flour and malt flour mixed with a little carbonate of potash and cooked with 10 
parts of milk. The wheat and malt flour are now usually cooked first, and 
sold in powder ready to be cooked again with the milk. Some kinds of the 
nutritive red and dark coloured rice made into cakes and dried are used by 
the Burmese soldiers on long marches, and a man will carry, it is said, enough 
food for ten or twelve days. 

Dried Bread. In addition to biscuit already described, bread has been 
partially dried by being pressed in a hydraulic press (method of Laignel). 
Much water flows out, but when taken out the bread still feels moist. In a 
day or two, however, it becomes as hard as a stone, and in a year's time will 
be found good and agreeable. Placed in water, it slowly swells. The " pain 
biscuite" of the French army is bread dried by heat (see Bread). 

Dried Potatoes are sold in two forms slices and granulated. In either 
case the potato is easily cooked, and is very palatable. It should be soaked 
in cold water first for some time, then slowly boiled, or, what is much better, 
steamed. 

Dried Vegetables (other than Potatoes). Dried and compressed vegetables 
of all kinds (peas, cauliflowers, carrots, &c.) are now prepared, especially by 
Messrs Masson & Chollet, so perfectly, that if properly cooked they furnish 
a dish almost equal to fresh vegetables. They must be soaked for some time 
(four to six hours) in pure water, and then cooked very slowly. If there 
is any disagreeable taste from commencing putrefaction, which is very rare, a 
little chloride of lime removes it at once. Permanganate of potash can be also 
used for this purpose. 

As anti-scorbutics they are said to be inferior to the fresh vegetable (ex- 
perience of American war), but are still much better than nothing. 

Dried Milk. Preserved milk is sold in a liquid form (see Milk), but is 

* All these concentrated meats ought to he largely used in medicine, instead of the weak 
heef-teas and other slops so much employed ; they contain a large amount of food in small bulk, 
and are therefore particularly fitted for certain cases of failing powers of digestion. 



CONCENTRATED AND PRESERVED FOOD. 229 

also sold as a powder. Desiccated milk is now very well prepared ; I ex- 
amined a sample of Tadeuille's desiccated milk; the bottle contained 1502 
grains, consisting of 

Casein, 524-588 

Fat, . . 330-442 

Lactin, 492-265 

Salts, . . . 73-898 

and intended to be mixed with a quart of water. When so mixed it had a 
specific gravity of 1026; a little sugar had probably been added. Cream to 
the extent of -fg^ths rose to the surface. The milk turned acid in twenty- 
four hours. 

In the use of these concentrated foods there are one or two points which 
should be explained to soldiers. The bulk is so comparatively small that 
men will eat rapidly two or three days' allowance. It should be explained to 
them that the feeling of hunger will be removed by the smaller bulk if they 
will allow time for this. There is, however, often a sort of hunger felt even 
after eating slowly, on account of the small bulk and the easy digestion of 
these well-cooked substances. The best way to obviate this is to make them 
into thick soups, if time and means permit, so as to form a greater bulk. 
This has the advantage also of giving the soldier warm food, a point of the 
very greatest importance ; for it is certain that under fatigue, and during cold, 
nothing is more reviving than warm food. 



CHAPTER VII. 
BEVERAGES AND CONDIMENTS. 

SECTION I. 
ALCOHOLIC BEVEEAGES. 

ALTHOUGH it is convenient to place all the beverages which, contain Alcohol 
under one heading, they yet differ materially in composition and effects. The 
medical officer has to deal with only a few of these liquids. 

SUB-SECTION I. BEER. 

Composition. The law allows only malt and hops to be used in brewing ; 
and beer consists of malt and hop extracts ; of alcohol, formed by fermenta- 
tion ; and of salts added in the water, or present in the malt and hops. 

The specific gravity varies from 1006 to 1030, or even more, in the thick 
German beers ; the average in English beers and porters is from 1010 to 101 4. 
The percentage of malt extract (dextrin, cellulose, sugar) is from 4 to 15 per 
cent, in ale, and from 4 to 9 per cent, in porter. It is least in the bitter, and 
highest in the sweet ales. The hop extract (lupulit and resin) is in much 
smaller amount. The alcohol varies from 1 to 10 per cent, in volume. The 
free acidity which arises from lactic, acetic, gallic, and malic acids, ranges (if 
reckoned as dry acetic acid) from 15 to 40 grains per pint. The sugar has a 
great tendency to form glucinic acid (C 8 H 5 5 ). There is a small quantity of 
albuminous matter in most beers, but not averaging more than '5 per cent. 
The salts average '1 to *2 per cent., and consist of alkaline chlorides, and 
phosphates, and some earthy phosphates. There is a small amount of am- 
moniacal salt. The dark beers, or porters, contain caramel and assamar. Free 
carbonic acid is always more or less present; the average is -1 to *2 parts by 
weight per cent., or about If cubic inches per ounce. Volatile and essential 
oils are also present. 

Adopting mean numbers, 1 pint (20 ounces) of beer will contain : 

Alcohol, 1 ounce. 

Extractives, dextrin, sugar, . . . 1 -2 (524 grains). 

Free acid, 25 grains. 

Salts, . . . . . . 13 grains. 

As an article of Diet. There appear to be four ingredients of importance 
viz., the extractive matters and sugar, the bitter matters, the free acids, and 
the alcohol. The first, no doubt, are carbo-hydrates, and play the same part 
in the system as starch and sugar, appropriating the oxygen, and saving fat 
and albuminates from destruction. Hence, one cause of the tendency of per- 
sons who drink 'much beer to get fat. The bitter matters are supposed to be 
stomachic and tonic ; though it may be questioned whether we have not gone 
too far in this direction, as many of the highest-priced beers contain now little 



BEER. 231 

else than alcohol and bitter extract. The action of the free acids is not 
known ; "but their amount is not inconsiderable ; and they are mostly of the 
kind which form carbonates in the system, and which seem to play so useful 
a part. To the action of alcohol, reference will be presently made. 

It is evident that in beer we have a beverage which can answer several 
purposes viz., can give a supply of carbo-hydrates, of acid, and of a bitter 
tonic (if such be needed), independent of its alcohol. 

In moderation, it is no doubt well adapted to aid digestion, and to lessen 
to some extent elimination of fat. It may be inferred that beer will cause an 
increase of weight of the body, by increasing the amount of food taken in, and 
by slightly lessening metamorphosis ; and general experience confirms these 
inferences. 

Physiological Action. The physiological action on tissue metamorphosis, 
as far as is known, is one of lessened excretion ; the urea and pulmonary car- 
bonic acid being both decreased. On the nervous system, the action is pro- 
bably the same as that of alcohol. 

When beer is taken in excess, it produces gradually a state of fulness and 
plethora of the system, which probably arises from a continual, though slight 
interference with elimination, both of fat and nitrogenous tissues. When 
this reaches a certain point, appetite lessens, and the formative power of the 
body is impaired. The imperfect oxidation leads to excess of partially oxi- 
dised products, such as oxalic and uric acids. Hence many of the anomalous 
affections, classed as gouty and bilious disorders, which are evidently con- 
nected with defects in the regressive metamorphosis. 

The question what is excess, is not easy to answer, and will depend both 
on the composition of the beer, and on the habits of life of those who take it. 

EXAMINATION OF BEER. 

This is directed to ascertain 1. Quality; 2. Adulterations. 

1. Quality. 

1. Physical Characters. The beer should be transparent, not turbid. 
Turbidity arises from imperfect brewing or clarifying, or from commencing 
changes. If the latter, the acidity will probably be found to be increased. 
The amount of carbonic acid disengaged should neither be excessive nor defi- 
cient. 

The taste should be pleasant. If bitter, the bitterness should not be per- 
sistent. It should not taste too acid. 

Smell gives no indication till the changes have gone to some extent. 

2. Determine specific Gravity. If this is done after the alcohol is driven 
off (see Determination of Alcohol), an approximative conclusion can be formed 
of the amount of solids. 

Specific Gravity Per cent, of Specific Gravity Per cent, of 

after loss of Alcohol. Extract. after loss of Alcohol. Extract. 



1004 1 

1008 ... 2 

1012 ... 3 

1016 ... 4 

1020 5 



1024 . . 6 

1028-1 . . 7 

1032-2 . . 8 

1036-3 . . 9 

1040-4 10 



3. Determine Acidity. This is a very important matter, as the increase of 
acidity is an early effect when beer is undergoing changes. 
The acidity of beer consists of two kinds. 
Volatile Acids viz., acetic and carbonic. 



232 BEVERAGES AND CONDIMENTS. 

Non-Volatile Acids viz., lactic, gallic or tannic, malic, and sulphuric, if' it 
has been added as an adulteration. 

To determine acidity of beer and all other liquids, the easiest plan is to pre- 
pare an alkaline solution of known strength. 

Standard Alkaline Solution. 

A standard acid is first made, and crystallised oxalic acid (C 2 3 + 3HO, 
equivalent 63) is now usually employed. 

One equivalent (63 grammes or grains viz., C 2 3 +3HO = 63) is taken 
and dissolved in 1 litre of water. 

A convenient amount for beer, wine, vinegar, or lemon-juice is, however, 
the decinormal solution or 6*3 grammes, in 1000 C.C. of water. 1 C.C. of 
this decinormal solution contains therefore -0063 grammes of crystallised ox- 
alic acid, and is exactly equal, of course, to an equivalent proportion of any 
other acid. 

A solution of liquor potassse, or sodse, is now taken and graduated with the 
acid solution ; so that 1 C.C. of oxalic acid solution shall exactly neutralise 
1 C.C. of the alkaline solution. Then 1 C.C. of the ^alkaline solution will be 
equal to '0063 grammes of oxalic acid, or to an equivalent proportion of any 
other acid, as shown in the table. 



' 63 g rammes crystallised oxalic acid (C 2 O 3 + 3HO). 
0036 dry oxalic acid (C 2 3 ). 
0051 dry acetic (C 4 H 3 3 ). 
0060 hydrated acetic (C 4 H 3 3 + HO). 
0165 dry citric acid* (C 12 H 5 H ). 
0192 hydrated citric (C 12 H 5 U + 3HO). 
0132 dry tartaric (C 8 H 4 10 ). 
0150 hydrated tartaric (C 8 H 4 10 + 2HO). 
0090 lactic acid (C 6 H 5 5 + HO). 
0040 dry sulphuric acid (S0 3 ). 
0049 hydrated sulphuric acid (S0 3 + HO). 

In preparing the alkaline solution, dilute the common liquor potasse of the 
pharmacopoeia with about eight or nine parts of water ; put a portion into 
the burette, and add it to 10 C.C. of the standard acid, coloured with litmus. 
It will be found that about 8 or 9 C.C. of the liquor potassse will neutralise 
the 10 C.C. of acid; read off the amount of alkaline solution used, measure 
the remaining portion, and calculate by rule of three how much water must 
be added to dilute it, so that 10 C.C. shall be required to neutralise 10 C.C. 
of the acid. 

Example. 10 C.C. of acid required 8 '17 C.C. of alkaline solution, and the 
remainder of the alkaline solution measured 160 C.C. 

8-7 : 10 : : 160 : x 

8 188-9. 

Thus (183-9-160 = ) 23-9 C.C. of water must be added to the 160 C.C., 

to dilute it to the proper strength. Add then this amount of water, and test 

it once more to see that there is no mistake. The alkaline solution does not 

keep well, and must be re-tested, if a long time passes without its being used. 

Having prepared the alkaline solution, take a measured quantity of beer 

* I have adopted the common constitution of citric acid. In stating the result of the inquiry, 
the composition of the acids should always be given, by adding the symbols, otherwise error 
may arise, as the compositions of citric and tartaric acids are stated in two or three ways. If the 
symbols are given, no mistake is possible. 



BEER. 233 

(say 10 C.C.), and drop in the alkaline solution from the burette, till exact 
neutrality is reached. Then read off the numbers of C.C. of alkaline solution 
used ; multiply by the co-efficient of dry acetic acid, and the result will be 
the amount of total acidity in the quantity of beer operated on, as expressed 
by acetic acid. By shifting the decimal point two places to the right, the 
amount per litre is given. To bring grammes per litre into grains per ounce, 
multiply by 70, and divide by 160 ; or, what is the same thing, multiply by 
437. If an ounce has been taken instead of 10 C.C., multiply the grammes 
by 15 '4 3 to bring the amount into grains. 

If the alkaline solution cannot be made, dried carbonate of soda must be 
used; weigh 53 grains (1 equiv.), and dissolve in 1000 C.C. ; 1 C.C. = "053 
grains, and this is equivalent to -063 grains of oxalic acid. If there is no 
burette, then weigh 100 grains of carbonate of soda; add portions gradually 
to the beer, and when the beer is neutralised, weigh the carbonate of soda re- 
maining. Then calculate by rule of three. 

As 53 is to the equivalent of the acid sought ; so is the amount of carbonate 
of soda used to x ; x = amount of acid in the quantity of beer operated upon. 

The total acidity can be divided into fixed and volatile by evaporation. 
While the total acidity is being determined, evaporate another measured 
quantity of beer to one-fourth, then dilute with water, and determine the 
acidity. The acetic acid being volatile, is driven off, and lactic and other 
acids remain. Deduct the amount of alkaline solution used in this second 
process from the total amount used, and this will give the amounts used for 
the volatile and fixed acidities respectively ; express one in terms of acetic, the 
other of lactic acid. If the fixed acidity is very large, the beer is not good, or 
sulphuric acid has been added. 

Generally speaking, the determinations of total acidity of beer given in 
books are too great. I have seldom found it to be more than 30 grains per 
pint, and often less ; sometimes not more than 14 or 15 grains. 

4. Determine Amount of Alcohol. There are various ways of doing this, 
but one of the two following will be sufficient. 

Measure a certain quantity, say one pint, of beer, and take the specific 
gravity at 60 or 68 Fahr. 1st, Put into a retort and distil at least two- 
thirds. Take the distillate, dilute to original volume with distilled water, 
determine the specific gravity at 60 or 68 by a proper instrument, and then 
refer to the annexed table of specific gravities opposite the found specific 
gravity the percentage of alcohol is given in volume (not in weight). 

2d, Then, to check this, a plan devised by Mulder may be used. Take the 
beer in the retort, dilute with water to the original volume, and take the 
specific gravity at 60 or 68. 

Then deduct the specific gravity before the evaporation from the specific 
gravity after it, take the difference, and deduct this from 1000 (the specific 
gravity of water), and look in the table of specific gravities for the number 
thus obtained ; opposite will be found the percentage of alcohol.* The results 
of these two methods should be identical. 

If there is no retort, this second plan may be used with a common evapo- 
rating dish, the alcohol being suffered to escape. A common urinometer 
(tested for correctness in the first place by immersion in distilled water at 62 
Fahr.), may be employed for determining the specific gravity. This plan is 

* It may be puzzling at first to see how this plan gives the result ; but it is simple enough. 
As alcohol is lighter than water, the evaporation raises the specific gravity in proportion to the 
loss of alcohol, and the gain of the beer in specific gravity from the evaporation is exactly 
equal to the depression in specific gravity which that amount of alcohol would cause if added 
to pure water equal in bulk to the beer operated upon. 



234 



KKVKRAGKS AND CONDIMENTS. 



very useful for medical officers ; it requires nothing but a urinometur ami 
evaporating dish. 

Alcohol (Volume) according to Specific Gravity. 



100 parts. 


Specific Gravity. 


100 parts. 


Specific Gravity. 


Alcohol. 


Water. 


At 68. 


At 60. 


Alcohol. 


Water. 


At 68. 


At 60. 


62 


38 


0-887 


0-891 


31 


69 


0-954 


0-957 


61 


39 


0-889 


0-893 


30 


70 


0-956 


0-958 


60 


40 


0-892 


0-896 


29 


71 


0-957 


0-900 


59 


41 


0-894 


0-898 


28 


72 


0-959 


0-962 


58 


42 


0-896 


0-900 


27 


73 


0-961 


0-963 


57 , 


43 


0-899 


0-902 


26 


74 


0-963 


0-965 


56 


44 


0-901 


0-904 


25 


75 


0-965 


0-967 


55 


45 


0-903 


0-906 


24 


76 


0-966 


0-968 


54 


46 


0-905 


0-908 


23 


77 


0-968 


0-970 


53 


47 


0-907 


0-910 


22 


78 


0-970 


0-972 


52 


48 


0-909 


0-912 


21 


79 


0-971 


0-973 


51 


49 


0-912 


0-915 


20 


80 


0-973 


0-974 


50 


50 


0-914 


0-917 


19 


81 


0-974 


0-975 


49 


51 


0-917 


0-920 


18 


82 


0-976 


0-977 


48 


52 


0-919 


0-922 


17 


83 


0-977 


0-978 


47 


53 


0-921 


0-924 


16 


84 


0-978 


0-979 


46 


54 


0-923 


0-926 


15 


85 


0-980 


0-981 


45 


55 


0-9L>:> 


0-928 


14 


86 


0-981 


0-982 


44 


56 


0-927 


0-930 


13 


87 


0-983 


0-984 


43 


57 


0-930 


0-933 


12 


88 


0-985 


0-986 


42 


58 


0-932 


0-935 


11 


89 


0-986 


0-987 


41 


59 


0-934 


0-937 


10 


90 


0-987 


0-988 


40 


60 


0-936 


0-939 


9 


91 


0-988 


0-989 


39 


61 


0-938 


0-941 


8 


92 


0-989 


0-990 


38 


62 


0-940 


0-943 


7 


93 


0-990 


0-991 


37 


63 


0-942 


0-945 


6 


94 


0-992 


0-992 


36 


64 


0-944 


0-947 


5 


95 


0-994 


0-994 


35 


65 


0-946 


0-949 


4 


96 


0-995 


0-995 


34 


66 


0-948 


0-951 


3 


97 


0-997 


0-997 


33 


67 


0-950 


0-953 


2 


98 


0-998 


0-998 


32 


68 


0-952 


0-955 


1 


99 


0-999 


0-999 













100 


1-000 


1-000 



5. The solids can be determined by evaporation, and the ash obtained by 
incineration ; but medical officers will seldom have occasion to do this. The 
specific gravity of the de-alcoholised beer gives a sufficient approximation. 

6. Taste the beer evaporated to a syrupy consistence; it should be a pleasant 
bitter. 

2. 



1. Water. Detected by taste; determining amount of alcohol and specific 
gravity of the beer free from alcohol. 

2. Alcohol Seldom added : the quantity of alcohol is largo in proportion 
to tho amount of extract, as determined by the specific gravity after separa- 
tion of tho alcohol. 



11KKK. 235 

3. Carbonate of Soda or of Lime in order to lessen Acidity. Neither adul- 
teration can be detected without a chemical examination. Evaporate beer 
to a thick extract, then put in a retort, acidulate with sulphuric acid and 
distil ; if an acetate of lime or soda be present, acetic acid in large quantity 
will pass over. The extract always contains some acetate, but only in small 
quantity. 

Lime. Evaporate to dryness another portion of beer, incinerate, dissolve in 
weak acetic acid, and precipitate by oxalate of ammonia. In unadulterated 
beer the precipitate is moderate only. 

Excess of soda, for some always exists in beer, is detected with much greater 
difficulty, and it will be well not to attempt this. Mulder states that the 
presence of too great a quantity of lactates may be determined by boiling the 
beer with carbonate of zinc, when lactate of zinc deposits.* 

4. Chloride of Sodium. This is hardly an adulteration, unless a very large 
quantity is added. Take a measured quantity of the beer ; evaporate to dry- 
ness ; incinerate ; dissolve in water, and determine the chlorine by the standard 
solution of nitrate of silver. (See Analysis of Water.) 

5. Sulphate of Iron. If the beer be light-coloured, a mixture of ferricy- 
anide and ferrocyariide of potassium (Faraday's test) may be added at once, 
and will give a precipitate of Prussian blue ; if the beer be very dark-coloured 
it must be decolorised by adding solution of diacetate of lead and filtering. 

Or evaporate a portion of beer to dryness and incincerate ; if any iron bo 
present the ash is red ; dissolve in weak nitric acid, and test with ferrocyanide 
of potassium. Two grains of sulphate of iron to nine gallons of porter give 
a red asli (Hassall). The ash of genuine porter is always white, or greyish 
white (Hassall). 

6. Sulphuric acid is added to clarify beer, and to give it the hard flavour of 
age. If the beer be pale, add a few drops of hydrochloric acid, and test with 
chloride of barium. A very dense precipitate may show that sulphuric acid 
has been added, but it must be remembered that the water used in brewing 
may contain large quantities of sulphates. (The Burton water is rich in sul- 
phates.) If there be a large precipitate, then determine the acidity of the 
beer before and after evaporation ; if the amount of fixed acid be found to be 
/'<v// large, there will be no doubt that S0 3 has been added. 

Mulder recommends that the extract of the beer be heated, and the sul- 
phurous acid gas which is disengaged led into chlorine water ; sulphuric acid 
will be found in the chlorine water, and may be tested for as usual. 

7. Alum. Evaporate to dryness; incinerate, and proceed exactly as in the 
analysis of alum in bread. 

8. Burnt Sugar Essentia Una. Evaporate beer to extract ; dissolve in 
alcohol ; evaporate again to extract and taste. According to Pappenheim these 
substances prevent the regressive metamorphosis of the tissues, and thus in- 
jure health. 

9. Capsicum Peppers Grains of Paradise. Evaporate to dryness care- 
fully ; dissolve in alcohol ; filter ; evaporate very carefully to dryness, and 
taste if there is any pungency. In fourteen out of twenty samples of illicit 
beer, Mr Phillips found that grains of paradise had been added. 

10. A number of other substances are, it is said, sometimes added, cen- 
tauria, absinthe, pyrethrus, gentian, quassia, aloes, burnt chicory. The detec- 
tion is extremely difficult, if not impossible, unless the taste of the alcoholic 
extract gives any indication. 

11. Cocculus Indicus. It is not known whether much of this is now used. 

* DC hi Him- (French edition), 1861, p. 363. 



236 BEVERAGES AND CONDIMENTS. 

Tlie witnesses examined some years ago (1856) by the Committee of the House 
of Commons (Scholefield's) all doubted it ; a large quantity of Cocculus indicus 
is, however, annually imported, and no other use is known. In two instances 
out of twenty specimens of adulterated beer, analysed in 1863 by Mr Phillips, 
Cocculus indicus was found in large quantities. 

For the detection of Picrotoxine, Herapath recommends that the beer be 
first treated with acetate of lead ; filtered ; excess of lead got rid of by sul- 
phuretted hydrogen ; fluid evaporated to a small bulk, and mixed with animal 
charcoal. The charcoal absorbs the picrotoxine ; it is boiled in alcohol, and 
the alcohol is evaporated on slips of glass. The picrotoxine crystallises as 
plumose tufts of circular or oat-shaped crystals. 

Dr Langley of Michigan* recommends acidulating the beer with hydro- 
chloric acid and agitating with ether ; the etherial solution yields on evapora- 
tion crystals of picrotoxine, which can be tested by rubbing it with nitrate 
of potash ; adding a drop of sulphuric acid, and then a strong solution of 
potash of soda. A bright reddish-yellow colour is given if picrotoxine be pre- 
sent. 

A more complete, but much longer process, is given by Schmidt,t who de- 
tected *04 grains of picrotoxine in a bottle of beer ; but probably one of the 
above will be sufficient. 

12. Strychnine or Nux Vomica. This is a very uncommon adulteration, if 
it ever occur. Add animal charcoal to the beer ; digest for twenty-four hours ; 
pour off beer ; boil the charcoal in alcohol ; filter ; evaporate one-half ; add a 
few drops of liquor potassse and then ether ; agitate ; pour off ether and eva- 
porate to dryness ; test for strychnine by the colour tests (sulphuric acid and 
bichromate of potash, or -peroxide of lead, or manganese, or permanganate of 
potash). 

1 3. Tobacco is occasionally used ; in twenty specimens of illicit beer ex- 
amined in 1863, by Mr Phillips of the Inland Eevenue Department, tobacco 
was found in one. 

14. Picric Acid. Lassaigne recommends the addition of subacetate of lead 
and animal charcoal ; if the beer has still a yellow colour, picric acid is present. 
But, as Mulder and Hassall observe, many beers destitute of picric acid remain 
yellow. Pohl advises to add white uncombed wool ; if picric acid be present 
it stains it. This is an uncertain test. 

15. Copper. Evaporate a portion of the beer to dryness ; incinerate; dis- 
solve in weak nitric acid ; test for copper by the insertion of a clean knife ; 
by addition of ammonia and of ferrocyanide of potassium. 

1 6. Lead. Evaporate a considerable quantity of the beer to dryness ; incine- 
rate ; dissolve in weak nitric acid, and test for lead as usual. (See analysis 
of Water.) 

SUB-SECTION II. WINES. 
Composition. 

The composition of wine is so various that it is difficult to give a summary. 
The following are the chief ingredients : 

1. Alcohol. From 6 to 25 per cent, of volume of anhydrous alcohol. It 
has been, however, stated that the fermentation of the grape, when properly 
done, cannot yield more than 17 per cent., and that any amount beyond this 



* Chemical News, Sept. 6, 1862. 

t Schmidt's Jahrb. 1863, No. 4, p. 5 ; and Chemical News, March 1864, p. 123. 



WINES. 



237 



is added. * 
cent. 



Some of the finest wines do not contain more than 6 to 10 per 

Per cent, of Alcohol 
(Volume). 

16-62tto23-2 



16 

16-7 

15 

6-85 



11 

8-7 

11 
7-3 

8-9 
9 

5-8 
8 

6-7 

10-2 

10 

9-1 
14 
13 



25 

22 
25 

13 

18-7 

13-7 

16 

14-5 

12 

16 

13 

13 

16 
15 

15 
19 
18 



Port (analysed in England), 

Sherry (analysed in England), . 

Madeira (analysed in England), 

Marsala (analysed in England), .... 

Bordeaux wines, red (mean of 30 determinations of ~\ 

different sorts : Chateau Lafite, Margeau, Larose, Y 

Barsac, St Emilion, St Estephe, &c.), . - _) 
Bordeaux wines, white (mean of 27 determinations ) 

of sorts : Sauterne, Barsac, Bergerac, &c.), . J 
Khone wines, red (Hermitage, Montpellier, Fron- ) 

tignan, &c.), ....... J 

Kousillon, .... 

Burgundy, red (Beaune, Macon), . . . 
white (Chablis, Ma9on, Beaune), 

Pyrennean, 9 . 

Champagnes, 

Moselles, ........ 

Ehine wines (Johannisberg, Hochheimer, Rudes- ) 

heimer, &c.), J 

Ehine Hessian wines (Niersteiner, Liebfrauenmilch, ) 

Oppenheimer, &c.), J 

Wurtemberg wine, . 

Hungarian wine, ....... 

Italian, ......... 

Syria, Corfu, Samos, Smyrna, Hebron, Lebanon, 

So various is the amount of alcohol in wines from the same district, that a 
very general notion only can be obtained by tables, and a sample of the wine 
actually used must generally be analysed. 

To tell how much pure alcohol is taken in any definite quantity of wine, 
measure the wine in ounces, and multiply it by the percentage of alcohol with 
a decimal point before it. 

Example. Wine drank being 9 oz., and the percentage 13, then 9 x -13 
- 1'17 oz. of absolute alcohol. 

The amount of alcohol can be determined by distillation or evaporation, as 
given in the section on Beer.j; Instruments, however, are required, which 
indicate a less specific gravity than pure water. If the medical officer has 
only a common urinometer, the only plan will be to dilute with pure water 
at 60, so as to double or quadruple the wine, and in this way to bring the 
specific gravity above that of water ; then evaporate as usual. Take the 
difference of the specific gravities (before and after evaporation) ; deduct from 
1000, and look in the table (p. 234) for the amount of alcohol in the diluted 
wine ; by multiplying the result by 2 or 4, the percentage of alcohol in the 
undiluted wine is found. 

* Mulder (On Wine, p. 186) quotes Guijal to the effect that pure port never contains more 
than 12-75 per cent, of pure alcohol ; but Mulder doubts this. Dr Gorman stated before the 
Parliamentary Committee that pure sherry never contains more than 12 per cent, of alcohol, 
and that 6 or 8 gallons of brandy are added to 108 gallons of sherry. 

f Some port used in the Queen's establishment contains only 16-62, and the highest percent- 
age is 18'8 (Hofmann). The sherry contains only 16 per cent., and the claret 6'85 to 7 per cent. 

J Geissler's vaporimeter is an excellent plan when there are many analyses to be made, but 
the instrument is too delicate to be carried about. 



238 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. 

2. Ethers. (Enanthic, citric, malic, tartaric, racemic, acetic, butyric, 
caprylic, caproic, pelargonic. The " bouquet " of wiiie is partly owing to the 
ethers partly, it is said, to extractive matters. 

The only mode of determining the ethers is by fractional distillation, i.e., 
by distilling small portions at a very low temperature, so as to get over the 
ethers more volatile than alcohol, then to distil the alcohol, and then to 
carry the heat higher, so as to get the ethers (if any) less volatile than alcohol. 
There is also a little aldehyde and amylic alcohol in wine. 

3. Albuminous Matters Extractive Colouring Matter. The quantity of 
albumen is not great ; the extractives and colouring matter vary in amount. 
The colouring matter is derived from the skins ; it is naturally greenish or 
blue, and is made red by the free acids of wine. The bluish tint of s"ome 
Burgundy wines is owing, according to Mulder, to the very small amount of 
acetic acid which these wines contain. It is, according to Batilliat, composed 
of two matters Rosite and Purpurite. With age changes occur in the extrac- 
tive matters ; some of it falls (apothema), especially in combination with 
tannic acid, and the wine becomes pale and less astringent. 

4. Sugar exists in varying amounts, and in the form for the most part of 
fruit sugar. Sherry generally contains sugar, but not always ; it averages 8 
grains per ounce,* and appears to be highest in the home sherries, and least 
in Amontillado and Manzanilla. In Madeira it varies from 6 to 66 grains 
per ounce ; in Marsala a little less ; in port, from 1 6 to 34 grains per ounce, 
being apparently greatest in the finest wine. In champagne it amounts to 
from 6 to 28 grains, the average being about 24 grains. In the clarets, Bur- 
gundy, Rhine, and Moselle wines, it is absent, or in small amount. 

The amount of sugar is best determined by the saccharimeter. If the copper 
solution be used, the colouring matter is acted on by the alkali of the copper 
solution, and interferes with the appreciation of the change of tint, and must be 
got rid of by acetate of lead only, animal charcoal, boiling, and filtering. If any 
substance exists which is still turned green by the alkali of the copper solution, 
the wine must be neutralised, evaporated to dryness, and the sugar dissolved. 
As a rule, the copper solution employed directly with wine gives often ^ per 
cent, too much sugar (Fehling), and a correction to this amount should be made. 

5. Fat. A small amount exists in some wine. 

6. Free Acids. Wine is acid from free acids and from acid salts, as the 
bitartrate of potash. The principal acids are racemic, tartaric, acetic, malic, 
tannic (in small quantities), glucic, formic (?), lactic (?), carbonic and fatty 
acids. Some acids are volatile besides the acetic, but it does not seem quite 
certain what they are. The tannic acid is derived from the skins ; it is in 
greatest amount in new port wine ; it is trifling in Madeira and the Rhine 
wines ; it is present in all white and most red-fruit wines, except champagne. 
The tannic acid on keeping precipitates with some extractive and colouring 
matter (apothema of tannic acid). 

7. Determination of the Free Acidity. This is done by the alkaline solu- 
tion, as described in the section on Beer, or if this is not procurable, the dried 
carbonate of soda can be used. The free acidity is generally reckoned as 
crystallised tartaric acid. There is both fixed and volatile acidity, but the 
relative amount of the two has not yet been satisfactorily determined. 

The amount of free acidity varies greatly even in the same kind of wines ; 
the least acid wines are sherry, port, champagne, the best claret, and Madeira ; 
the more acid wines are Burgundy, Rhine wine, Moselle (Bence Jones). The 
amount of free acid in good claret is equal to 2 to 4 grains per ounce of 

* Bence Jones in " Mulder on Wine," p. 386. 



WINES. 239 

tartaric acid ; in common clarets, and in Beaujolais, it may be 4 to 6 grains, 
and in some extremely acid wines it may be even more than this. In the 
best champagnes it is 2 to 3 grains usually ; but it has been known to reach 
in excellent champagne 1*12 per cent., or 4'8 grains per ounce.* In port 
it averages 2 to 2J grains, but may reach 4 grains; in sherry, 1J to 2^ 
grains ; in the Rhine wines, 3^ to 4 or 6 grains. 

The taste of wine does not depend on, but yet is somewhat influenced by the 
degree of acidity. Still the taste and juice of a wine can never be judged of 
by the acidity. Mr Griffin t states that good-tasted wine contains from 1'87 
to 2 '8 grains of crystallised tartaric acid per ounce ; that if it contains less than 
1*87 grains it tastes flat ; that if more than 3 grains per ounce, the wine is 
too acid to be agreeable ; if more than 4 '37 grains per ounce, it is too acid to 
be drunk. These numbers are rather lower than I should have supposed. 

It seems to be of great importance to determine the free acidity of wine, as 
doubtless, not only in health, but in many diseases, the supply of acid to the 
system may be a thing to be desired or prevented, and we can never treat 
disease properly without knowing what we are giving. 

8. Salts. The salts consist of bitartrate of potash, tartrate of lime and 
soda, sulphate of potash, a little phosphate of lime and magnesia, chloride of 
sodium, and iron. The magnesia is in larger amount than the lime, and 
exists sometimes as malate and acetate. A little manganese and copper have 
been sometimes found. In Rhine wine a little ammonia is found (Mulder). 
The total amount of salts is -1 to '3 per cent., i.e., about 9 to 26 grains per 
pint, or J to 1| grains per ounce. The salts can only be detected by evapo- 
ration and ignition. 

The total solids in wine vary from 3 to 14 per cent., or in some of the rich 
liqueur-like wines to more. The specific gravity depends upon the amount of 
alcohol and of solids, and varies from '973 to 1-002 or more. An approxi- 
mate notion can be formed of the total solids by taking the specific gravity, 
after driving off the alcohol by evaporation, and then replacing the water (see 
Beer, p. 231). 

The quality of wine can be best determined by noting the colour, trans- 
parency, and taste (the taste or bouquet of wine is given partly by the ethers, 
partly by extractive matters), and then determining the following points : 

(1.) The amount of solids as given by the specific gravity after the elimina- 
tion of the alcohol. In the best clarets, before the loss of alcohol, the specific 
gravity is very nearly that of water. In some claret used in the Queen's estab- 
lishment, and analysed by Dr Hofmann, the specific gravity was '99952. In 
inferior clarets it is as low as '995. The low specific gravity shows that 
alcohol has been added, or that the solids are in small amount. 

(2.) The amount of alcohol ; a very small amount may show the addition 
of water ; a large amount the addition of spirits. 

(3.) The amount of free acidity. This is an important point, as it seems 
clear that some persons (especially the sick) do not readily digest a large 
amount of acid and acid salts. 

(4.) The amount of sugar. The best mode of determining this has been 
already noticed. 

(5.) It may be sometimes useful to determine the amount and kind of 
ethers by fractional distillation. 

Excessive acidity of wine can be corrected by adding neutral tartrate of 
potash. Milk is also often used. The addition of the carbonated alkalies, or 

* This was the case in some champagne examined by Dr Hofmann. 
t Report on Cheap Wine, by R. Druitt, M.D., p. 178. 



240 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. 

of chalk, alters the bouquet of the wine. When wine becomes stringy, in 
which case acetic and lactic acids are formed, it may be improved by adding 
a little tea ; about 1 ounce of tea boiled in 2 quarts of water should be added 
to about 40 gallons of wine. Bitter wine is treated with hard water or sul- 
phur ; bad smelling wine with charcoal ; too astringent wine with gelatine ; 
wine which tastes of the cask with olive oil. 

Adulterations of Wine. 

1. Water. Known by taste ; amount of alcohol ; specific gravity after 
elimination of alcohol. 

2. Distilled Spirits. Known by determining the amount of alcohol ; the 
normal percentage of the particular kind of wine being known. By fractional 
distillations the peculiar-smelling fusel oils may be obtained ; or merely rub- 
bing some of the wine on the hand, and letting it evaporate, may enable the 
smell of these ethers to be perceived. 

3. Artificial Colouring Matters. There are no good methods of recognising 
these matters ; salts of lead, ammonia, and sulphide of ammonium, alum, and 
carbonate of potash, or ammonia, salts of tin, have been used as re-agents. 
The most useful test appears to be this : add to the wine about Jth volume of 
strong solution of alum ; stir well, and then add about an equal quantity of 
strong solution of carbonate of ammonia ; the natural colouring matter of the 
wine when thrown down in this way has a greenish or dirty bluish-green 
colour, but there is no tinge of red ; logwood and several other abnormal 
colours have a distinct red or purplish tint.* 

4. Lime Salts. -The so-called " platrage" of wines consists in the addition 
of 1 1 R) to 7 Ib of a mixture of sulphate of lime (80 parts) , carbonate of lime (12), 
quicklime and sulphide and chloride of calcium (8 parts) to 1 hectolitre of 
wine. Sulphate of lime dissolves in large proportion, and then interchanges 
with the chloride of potassium, and chloride of calcium and sulphate of potash 
are formed. The chalk forms acetate and tartrate of lime. The proportion of 
lime salts is then very large. The only precise way of detecting this adulte- 
ration is by evaporating to dryness, incinerating, and determining the amount 
of lime. But the following method is shorter, and will generally answer. 
The natural lime salts of wine are tartrate and sulphate ; when lime is added 
an acetate of lime is formed. Evaporate the wine to jig-th ; add twice the 
bulk of strong alcohol ; the acetate of lime is dissolved, but not the sulphate 
or tartrate ; filter and test with oxalate of ammonia ; if a large precipitate 
occur, lime has probably been added. 

5. Tannin may be detected either by chloride of iron or by adding gelatine. 
But as tannin exists naturally in most of the red wines (Port, Beaune, 
Roussillon, Hermitage, &c.), the question becomes often one of quantity. 
The amount of tannin can be estimated by drying the tannogelatine (100 
grains contain 40 of tannin). 

6. Alum. This is detected precisely in the same manner as in bread. 
Evaporate a pint of the wine to dryness ; incinerate, and then proceed as 
directed in bread. 

7. Lead. Evaporate to dryness and incinerate ; dissolve in dilute nitric 
acid, and test as directed under the head of WATER. 

8. Copper. Decolorise with animal charcoal, and test at once with fer- 
rocyanide of potassium. 

9. Cider and Perry. Evaporate wine, and the peculiar smell of the liquids 
will be perceived. 

* Mulder speaks very doubtfully of all such tests ; they seem, however, better than nothing. 




SPIRITS. 



241 



Port wine, as sold in the market, is stated to be a mixture of true Port, 
Marsala, Bordeaux, and Cape wines with brandy. Inferior kinds are still 
more highly adulterated with logwood, catechu, prune juice, and a little sandal- 
wood and alum. 

Wine as an Article of Diet. 

So complex and so varying is the composition of many kinds of wine, that 
it seems almost impossible to make any statements which shall be applicable 
to all sorts. But it is clear that wine contains, besides alcohol and ethers, 
several substances of great value as articles of diet, viz., some albuminous 
substances, much sugar in some wines, and other carbo-hydrates, and abundant 
salts. The common experience of nations seems to prove that the employment 
of wine in moderation is useful as well as agreeable. Whether it is that the 
amount of alcohol is small, or whether the alcohol be itself, in some way, 
different from that prepared by distillation, or whether the co-existence of 
carbo-hydrates and of salts modifies its action, certain it is that the moderate 
use of wine, which is not too rich in alcohol, does not seem to lead to those 
profound alterations of the molecular constitution of organs which follow the 
use of spirits, even when not taken largely. Considering the large amounts 
of vegetable salts which most wines contain, it may reasonably be supposed 
that they play no unimportant part in giving dietetic value to wine. Indeed, 
it is quite certain that, in one point of view, they are most valuable ; they are 
highly anti-scorbutic, and the arguments of Lind and Gillespie, for the intro- 
duction of red wine into the royal navy instead of spirits, have been completely 
justified in our own time by both French and English experience. It is now 
certain that with the same diet, but giving in one case red wine, in another 
rum, the persons on the latter system will become scorbutic long before those 
who take the wine. This is a most important fact, and in a campaign, the 
issue of red wines should never be omitted. 

To define precisely what is moderation in the use of wine is as impossible 
as in the case of beer ; that most persons, even in these days of comparative 
temperance, take too much is highly probable. After all, a point of this kind 
must be settled by individual experience. The great object should be to dis- 
courage the use of the strong wines (15 to 23 per cent, of alcohol), and to 
encourage the use of the weak wines (6 to 10 per cent, of alcohol). There is, 
of course, no doubt that wine is unnecessary as an article of diet, and many 
persons are much better without it. 



SUB-SECTION III. SPIRITS. 

Composition of Spirits. 
The following table gives the chief points of importance : 













Acidity 




Name. 


Sp. Gr. 


Alcohol, 
per cent. 


Solids, 
per 
cent. 


Ash, 
per cent. 


per ounce, 
reckoned 
as tartaric 


Sugar, 
per cent. 












acid. 




Brandy, . . 


929--9S4 


50-60 


1-2 


05 to -2 


1 grain 


or traces 


Gin, . . . 


930--944 


49-60 


2 


1 


0-2 


1 


Whisky, . . 


915--920 


50-60 


6 


trace 


0-2 





Eum, . . . 


S74--926 


60-77 


1- 


1 


0-5 






* This table is chiefly taken from Bence Jones' "Observations ;" "Appendix to Mulder on 
Wine," p. 389 ; and from Hassall's "Food and Adulterations," p. 645. 

Q 



242 



ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. 



Brandy contains also cenanthic ether, acetic, butyric, and valerianic ethers. 
A little tannin and colouring matter from the cask, or from caramel, are also 
present. If sugar is present in any quantity, it must have been added. The 
inferior kinds of brandy, prepared from potatoes as well as grain, contain 
potato fusel-oil. Eum contains a good deal of butyric ether, to which the 
aroma is chiefly owing. Gin, besides containing the oil of juniper, is flavoured 
with various aromatic substances, as Calamus aromatictis, coriander, carda- 
moms, cinnamon, almond-cake, and orange-peel ; Cayenne is often added. 
Whisky often derives a peculiar flavour from the malt being dried over peat 
fires, or by the direct impregnation of peat smoke.* 

Spirits as an Article of Diet for Healthy Persons. 

Three sets of arguments have been used in discussing this question, draWn, 
namely, from 

1. The physiological action of alcohol. 

2. Experience of its use or abuse. 

3. Moral considerations. 

To the last point I shall not further allude, for though I do not underrate 
the great weight of the argument drawn from the misery which the use of 
alcohol produces, a misery so great that it may truly be said, that if alcohol 
were unknown, half the sin and a large part of the poverty and unhappiness 
would disappear from the world, yet this part of the subject is so obvious 
that I do not wish to occupy space with it. To my mind, however, the argu- 
ments which are strongest for total abstinence are drawn from this class. Nor 
does any one entertain a moment's doubt that the effect of intemperance in 
any alcoholic beverage is to cause premature old age, to produce or predispose 
to numerous diseases, and to lessen the chance of living very greatly. The 
table given below,t taken from Neison's " Vital Statistics," puts this in a 
strong light. 



* It may be worth while to give the names of some of the distilled spirits used in different 
parts of the world, as the army surgeon may meet with them in the course of service : 
Nations by whom employed. 
Hindus, Malays, &c., 
Greeks, Turks, &c., 
Hindus, 

(Mahrattas), 

(Sikkim), 
Chinese, 
Japanese, 

Pacific Islanders, . 
Mexicans, 
South Americans, 
Tartars, 

Russians and Poles, 
Abyssinians, . 

t Effects of Intemperance, Nelson's " Vital Statistics," p. 217, et seq. : 

Ratio per cent, from the under-mentioned Causes, to Deaths from all Caiises. 



Name. 


Obtained from 


Arrack. 


Bice or Areca-nut. 


Eaki. 


Rice. 


Toddy. 


Cocoa-nut. 


Bojah. 


Eleusine Corocana. 


Murwa. 


)? yy 


Samshoo. 


Rice. 


Sacie. 


... 


Kawa. 


Macropiper. 


Pulque. 


Agave. 


Chica. 


Maize. 


Koumiss. 


Mares' milk. 


Vodki. 


Potato. 


Tallah. 


Millet. 



Cause of Death. 


1847. 


Gotha Life 
Office. 


Scottish 
Widows' Fund. 


Intemperate 

Lives. 


Head diseases, 
Digestive organs (especially those ) 
of the liver), ) 
Respiratory organs, .... 

Total of above three classes, 


9-710 
6-240 
33-150 


15-176 
8-377 
27-843 


20-720 
11-994 
23-676 


27-10 
23-3 
22-98 


49-100 


51-396 


56-390 


73-38 




SPIRITS. 243 



The Physiological Action of Alcohol, taken as an Article of Diet, and not 
in Poisonous Doses. 

Any physiological arguments for the use or disuse of spirits, or of alcoholic 
beverages generally, require to be used with caution, as our knowledge of the 
physiological action of even pure alcohol, much more of the alcoholic beve- 
rages, is imperfect. The following is a brief summary. 

When taken into the body, alcohol is either not destroyed at all, or is so 
only in small part.* It is eliminated by the lungs chiefly, by the skin in a 
less degree, and by the kidneys in a small amount ; it has been surmised that 
it may pass out by the bowels without absorption, but exact experiments are 
still wanting. At the same time, it seems extremely likely that the absorp- 
tion has its limits. 

1. On the Stomach. In very small quantities it appears to aid digestion; 
in larger amount it checks it, reddens the mucous membrane, and produces 
the "chronic catarrhal condition" of Wilson Fox, viz., increase of the con- 
nective tissue between the glands ; fatty and cystic degeneration of the con- 
tents of the glands, and, finally, more or less atrophy and disappearance of 
these parts, t Taken habitually in large quantities, it lessens appetite. 

2. On the Liver. The action of small quantities on the amount of bile or 
glycogenic substances, or on the other chemical conditions of the liver, is not 
known. Applied directly to the liver by injection into the portal vein, it 
increases the amount of sugar (Harley). Taken daily in large quantities, it 
causes either enlargement of the organ by producing albuminoid and fatty 
deposit, or it causes at once, or following enlargement, increase of connective 
tissue, and finally, contraction of Glisson's capsule, and atrophy of the portal 
canals and cells, by the pressure of a shrinking exudation (?). The exact 
amount necessary to produce these changes in the liver and stomach has not 
yet been fixed with precision. 

It thus appears that the intemperate have a much greater mortality from head and digestive 
diseases than other classes. 

In intemperate persons the mortality at 21-30 years of age is five times that of the tempe- 
rate ; from 30-40 it is four times as great. It becomes gradually less. 



A Temperate person's chance 

of living is, 

At 20 = 44-2 years. 
,,30 = 36-5 
,,40 = 28-8 
,,50 = 21-25 
= 14-285 



An Intemperate person's chance 

of living is, 

At 20 = 15-6 years. 
,,30 = 13-8 
,,40 = 11-6 
,,50 = 10-8 
60 = 8-9 



All these deductions appear to be drawn from observations on 357 persons with 6111*5 years 
of life. The facts connected with these persons are well authenticated, but the number is small. 
The average duration of life after the commencement of the habits of intemperance is 
Among mechanics, working and labouring men, ... 18 years. 

traders, dealers, and merchants, 17 

professional men and gentlemen, 15 

females, 14 

Those who are intemperate on spirits have a greater mortality than those intemperate on beer. 
Those who are intemperate on spirits and beer have a slightly greater mortality than those 
intemperate on only spirits or beer, but the difference is immaterial. 

Mortality per Annum. 

Spirit drinkers, .... 5*996 per cent, (nearly 60 per 1000). 
Beer drinkers, .... 4'597 per cent, (nearly 46 per 1000). 

Spirit and beer drinkers, . . 6 '194 per cent, (nearly 62 per 1000). 

* The experiments of Percy, Masing, and of Perrin, Lallemand, and Duroy, seem to me not 
to be invalidated by the criticism of Baudot. From pathological cases there is also evidence of 
the retention of alcohol in the brain and nervous fluids for a long time. 

j* These changes are now considered by Wilson Fox to be closely allied with those occurring 
in cirrhosis of the liver, and in the contracted and indurated kidney. Dr Fox informs me that 
the association of those conditions in these organs " has been before him with remarkable fre- 
quency." 

Q2 



244 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. 

3. On the Spleen. Its action is not known. 

4. On the Lungs. Any quantity lessens the amount of carbonic acid (and 
of watery vapour ?) in the air of expiration, and this is probably true of all 
the alcoholic beverages,* though there are some discrepancies in experiments 
with different kinds of spirits (E. Smith). In larger quantities habitually 
taken it also alters the molecular constitution of the lungs, as chronic bron- 
chitis and lobar emphysema are certainly more common in those who take 
much alcohol. 

5. On the Heart. It increases at first the force and sometimes the fre- 
quency of the pulse, but eventually greatly lessens it. In large quantities habi- 
tually taken it perhaps alters molecular constitution, and tends to the deposit 
or the formation of fat, as well as perhaps to other parenchymatous changes. 

6. On the Blood- Vessels. It causes general turgescence, especially of the 
skin, apparently from a sort of paralysing action on the nerves of the small 
arteries. 

7. On the Blood. The amount of fat is either increased, or it is more visi- 
ble. The chemical changes in the blood are partially arrested, t 

8. On the Nervous System. In some persons it acts at once as an anaes- 
thetic, lessening the rapidity of impressions, the power of thought, and the 
perfection of the senses. In other cases it seems to cause increased rapidity 
of thought, and excites imagination, but even here the power of control over 
a train of thought is lessened. In no case does it seem to increase accuracy of 
sight ; nor is there any good evidence that it quickens hearing, taste, smell, or 
touch. In almost all cases moderate quantities cause a feeling of comfort and 
exhilaration, which ensues so quickly as to make it probable the local action 
on the nerves of the stomach has at first something to do with this. After- 
wards the increased action of the heart may have an effect. Different spirits 
act differently on the nervous system, owing probably to the presence of the 
ethers ; some, as samshoo and raki, produce great excitement, followed by 
profound torpor and depression. Absinthe is also especially hurtful, appa- 
rently from the presence of the essential oils of anise, absinthe, and angelica, 
as well as from the large amount of alcohol. It appears that the properties 
are somewhat different according to the manner in which water is mixed with 
the absinthe, i.e., suddenly or slowly ; in the latter case, the particles of the 
absinthe are more divided, are absorbed more easily, and produce greater 
effects. 

9. On the Muscular System. Voluntary muscular power seems to be less- 
ened, and this is most marked when a large amount of alcohol is taken at 
once ; the finer combined movements are less perfectly made. Whether this 
is by direct action on the muscular fibres, or by the influence on the nerves, 
is not certain. 

10. On the Metamorphosis of Tissue. This is lessened, as is evidenced by 
a diminution in the elimination of nitrogen (as urea), and of carbon (as car- 
bonic acid). This indicates that less mechanical force is produced in the 
body, and less work is got from the human machine. Large quantities of al- 
cohol, therefore, tend to cause an accumulation in the system of imperfectly 
oxidised bodies, such as uric and oxalic acids. 

11. On the Temperature of the Body. Perrin, to whose observations re- 

* The effect of red and white French wines and of beer has been lately very carefully ex- 
amined by Pen-in (Eec. de Mem. de Med. Mil. 1865, p. 82) ; a very great diminution in the 
amount of carbonic acid (from 5 '6 to 22 per cent., less being excreted) was noticed in all the ex- 
periments. The effect commenced soon, and reached its maximum in the third hour, and ceased 
in two hours more. The pulse after meals with and without wine had equal power, but after a 
time the pulse fell more when wine was not taken. 

t Harley. Proceedings of Royal Soc., March 1861, No. 62, p. 160. 



SPIRITS. 245 

ference has been made, found the temperature of the body rather less after 
meals with, than after meals without wine. Brs Sidney Einger and Rick- 
ards have made an extensive series of observations on men and rabbits, which 
show that alcohol in large doses depresses the temperature remarkably. In 
dietetic doses it also usually lowers it ; in no case does it ever raise it. These 
experiments are quite in accordance with the observations on the use of alcohol 
when persons are exposed to cold (see next page). 

12. On the Action of the Eliminating Organs. The action of the lungs and 
kidneys is lessened ; less carbonic acid, less urea, and less water are elimi- 
nated ; that of the skin is not certain. Dr Edward Smith thinks it is lessened, 
and there is apparently dryness of the skin after the use of alcohol. But 
Weyrich* has noticed after spirits, beer, and wine, a very large augmentation 
of the insensible cutaneous perspiration. In large quantities the minute 
structure of the kidneys suffers, the vessels and tubes become thickened, and 
there is proliferation and rapid cell-growth, followed by as rapid atrophy and 
shrinking. It has also been often- noticed that even moderate spirit-drinkers 
show very early an appearance of age, and this probably arises from the con- 
stant over-distension of the small vessels of the skin, and perhaps from some 
change in the texture of the skin itself. 

It is certainly undesirable to draw any strong conclusions as to the use of 
alcohol in health, from our present knowledge of its physiological action, but 
it is impossible not to feel, that so far the progress of physiological inquiry 
renders the propriety of the use of alcohol in health more and more doubtful. 

It appears to decrease strength and to impair nutrition, by hindering oxida- 
tion, and if in large quantities, the reception of food ; while habitually taken 
in any large quantity, it leads to degeneration of the tissues of certain organs, 
especially of the liver, the nervous system, the heart, lungs, and kidneys. If 
we look upon the body as an agent of work, from which we desire to obtain 
as much mechanical and mental force as is compatible with health, we can 
consider the effect of alcohol, per se, as simply a means of preventing this de- 
velopment of force. But physiological experiment does not yet point out what 
quantity is necessary to produce these effects, nor whether a high degree of 
dilution, or the admixture of other substances, may not to a certain extent 
counteract the action of pure alcohol. 

The Arguments from Experience for and against the use of Alcohol in Health, 
are at present our chief guides. 

Beer and the weaker wines contain other ingredients which are useful, and 
when used in moderation the quantity of alcohol is small. Experience does 
not show at present any increase of sickness, proneness to special diseases, or 
lessening of duration of life in those who take moderately of beer or the 
weaker wines. In some cases, indeed, the moderate use seems to increase 
appetite and improve nutrition. But, on the other hand, experience most 
decidedly shows that the highest health, the greatest vigour, and long life, are 
quite compatible with entire abstinence from these liquids. 

In the case of spirits the result of experience is very different, and I believe 
it may be asserted that experience does not sanction the use of spirits ; or if 
in health their employment is useful, it can only be, I believe, in quite ex- 
ceptional circumstances, viz., when either a sudden stimulant is necessary for 
a failing heart, or when, in cases of deficient food, it is desired to lessen as 
tar as possible the waste of the body, or to diminish mental power. 

* Die tinmerkliche Wasserverdunstung der Menachl. Haut. Von Dr V. Weyrich, 1862, p. 117. 



246 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. 

Evidence on the Use of Spirits under various circumstances* 

Great Cold. There is a singular unanimity of opinion on this point ; all 
observers condemn the use of spirits, or of wine or beer, as a preventive 
against cold. In the Arctic regions we have on this head the evidence of Sir 
John Kichardson, Mr Goodsir (in Sir J. Franklin's first voyage), Dr King, 
Captain Kennedy (in the last search for Sir J. Franklin, when the whole crew 
were teetotallers), Dr Kane, Dr Hayes (surgeon of the Kane expedition), and 
others. Dr Hayes, indeed, says in his last paper (1859), that he will not only 
not use spirits, but will take no man accustomed to use them ; and that if 
" imperious necessity obliges him to give spirits, he will give them in small 
doses frequently, as the excitant action is followed by a very dangerous de- 
pression." In the Antarctic regions, and in the cold whaling grounds, we have 
the strong evidence of Dr Hooker to the same purport, and the customs of the 
many teetotal whalers. In North America, the Hudson's Bay Company 
entirely excluded spirits, partly, no doubt, to prevent their use among the 
Indians, but partly, in all probability, from experience of their inutility. 
Dr Carpenter quotes from Dr Kniill a statement, that the Eussian army on the 
march in cold weather not only use no spirits, but no man who has lately 
taken any is allowed to march. The guides at Chamouni and the Oberland, 
when out in the winter, have invariably found spirits hurtful ; they take only a 
little light wine (Forbes). The bathing men at Dieppe, who are much exposed 
to cold from long standing in the sea, also find that spirits are hurtful, and 
take only a little weak wine (Levy). 

The reason of this is not difficult to find, when we remember the lessening 
of pulmonary carbonic acid, and the impairment of the chemical changes (cor- 
related to heat and mechanical motion) which alcohol produces. The instances 
in which spirits are popularly supposed to be useful, are those in which hot 
water is taken with them, and the benefit is doubtless simply owing to the 
heat of the liquid. 

Great Heat. The evidence here also is almost equally conclusive against 
the use of spirits or beverages containing much alcohol. Dr Carpenter has 
assembled the most conclusive testimony from India, Brazil, Borneo, Africa, 
and Demerara. The best authorities on tropical diseases speak as strongly ; 
Robert Jackson, Ranald Martin, Henry Marshall, and many others. It seems 
quite certain, also, that not only is heat less well borne, but that insolation is 
predisposed to. 

The common notion that some form of alcoholic beverage is necessary in 
tropical climates is, I firmly believe, a mischievous delusion. I brought to Dr 
Carpenter's notice the case of the 84th Regiment, in which I formerly served, 
which, from the years 1842 to 1850, numbered many teetotallers (at one time 
more than 400) in its ranks ; and the records of this regiment show that, 
both on common tropical service, and on marches in India, the teetotallers 
were more healthy, more vigorous, and far better soldiers than those who did 
not abstain, t The experience of almost every hunter in India will be in 
accordance with this. 

On this point the greatest army surgeons have spoken strongly (Jackson 

* I have borrowed largely from Carpenter's admirable Essay on Temperance, and his other 
writings, and also from Spencer Thomson's useful work on the same subject, as well as from 
many other writers. 

j* See " Carpenter's Physiology of Temperance" for full details. The officers, who, by their 
example and precept, produced this great effect in a regiment in India, and proved that men are 
healthier and happier in India without any alcoholic beverage, were Lieut. -Colonel Willington, 
Captain (now Major-General) Russell, and Lieut, and Adjutant Seymour, an officer of the 
greatest promise, who died from dysentery, contracted during the mutiny. 




SPIRITS. 247 

especially, and Martin) ; and yet nothing is more common, even at the pre- 
sent day, than to hear officers, both in India and the West Indies, assert that 
the climate requires alcohol. These are precisely the climates where alcohol 
is most hurtful. 

With regard to service and exercise in the tropics, we have the strong 
testimony of Eanald Martin that warm tea is the best beverage ; and this 
will be corroborated, I believe, by every one who has made long marches, or 
hunting excursions, in India, and has carefully observed what kind of diet 
best suited him. 

It is, no doubt, in its opposition to the regressive metamorphosis, already 
probably interfered with by the high temperature, that we are to look for 
the cause of the pernicious effect of alcohol, when used under the influence 
of great heat. If the view, that the perspiration is lessened by alcohol, 
turns out to be correct, we have another cause for the hurtfulness of alcohol, 
as then the great agency by which the heat of the body is lowered, viz., 
surface evaporation, is lessened. 

The Exposures and Exertions of War. On this point, also, there is con- 
siderable unanimity of opinion. The greatest fatigues, both in hot and cold 
climates, have been well borne have been, indeed, best borne by men who 
took no alcohol in any shape. The march, which Sir James M'Grigor says 
was made under fatigues as great as troops ever underwent in any war, viz., 
across the desert to join Sir Ralph Abercromby in Egypt, in 1804, was 
accomplished without spirits ; and not only accomplished, but the troops 
" were remarkably healthy." 

To cite a well-known individual instance of great exertion in a hot climate, 
Kobert Jackson marched 118 miles in Jamaica, carrying a load equal to a 
soldier's, and decided that " the English soldier may be rendered capable of 
going through the severest military service in the West Indies ; and that 
temperance will be one of the best means of enabling him to perform his 
duty with safety and effect. The use of ardent spirits is not necessary to 
enable a European to undergo the fatigue of marching in a climate whose 
mean temperature is from 73 to 80. I have always found the strongest 
liquors the most enervating." 

Even under circumstances when the use of spirits might be supposed a 
priori to be useful, as when men are exposed to cold and wet, soldiers are 
better without alcohol. On this point, no testimony can be stronger than 
that given by Inspector-General Sir John Hall, K.C.B.* He says : 

"My own opinion is, that neither spirit, wine, nor malt liquor, is necessary for health. The 
healthiest army I ever served with had not a single drop of any of them ; and although it was 
exposed to all the hardships of Kaffir warfare at the Cape of Good Hope, in wet and inclement 
weather, without tents or shelter of any kind, the sick-list seldom exceeded one per cent. ; and 
this continued not only throughout the whole of the active operations in the field during the 
campaign, but after the men were collected in standing camps at its termination ; and this 
favourable state of things continued until the termination of the war. But immediately the 
men were again quartered in towns and fixed posts, where they had free access to spirits, an 
inferior species of brandy sold there, technically called ' Cape Smoke/ numerous complaints 
made their appearance among them. 

" In Kaffraria the trc 
kind ; and all attempts 
and heavily punished bj 
Colonel Mackinnon, the Commandant of British Kaffraria ; and the consequence was, that 
drunkenness, disease, crime, and insubordination were unknown ; and yet that army was 
frequently placed in the very position that the advocates for the issue of spirits would have said 
required a dram. 

" Small as the amount of sickness and mortality was in the Crimea, during the winter 1855-56, 
they would have been reduced one-half, I am quite sure, could the rule that was observed in 
Kafferland have been enforced there." 

* Medical History of the War in the Crimea, vol. i. p. 504. 



248 ALCOHOLIC BEVEKAGES. 

In the same Kaffir war (1852), a march was made by 200 men from Graham's 
Town to Bloomfronthein, and back ; 1000 miles were covered in seventy-one 
days, or at the rate of nearly 15 miles daily; the men were almost naked, 
were exposed to great variations of temperature (excessive heat during day ; 
while at night water froze in a bell-tent, with twenty-one men sleeping in it) ; 
and got as rations only biscuit, meat (1 J fi>), and what game they could kill. 
For drink they had nothing but water. Yet this rapid and laborious march 
was not only performed easily, but the men were " more healthy than they 
had ever been before ;" and after the first few days, ceased to care about spirits. 
'No man was sick till the end of the march, when two men got dysentery, and 
these were the only two who had the chance of getting any liquor.* 

To take an instance from a colder climate, and a more rigorous exposure, I 
will quote the opinion given by Dr Mann, one of the few American surgeons 
in the war of 1812-14, who have left any account of that contest. 

Dr Mann says,t " My opinion long has been that ardent spirits are an 
unnecessary part of a ration. Examples may be furnished to demonstrate 
that ardent spirits are a useless part of a soldier's ration. At those periods 
during the revolutionary war, when the army received no pay for their ser- 
vices, and possessed not the means to procure spirits, it was healthy. The 
4th Massachusetts Eegiment, at that eventful period of which I was the 
surgeon, lost in three years by sickness not more than five or six men. It 
was at a time when the army was destitute of money. During the winter 
1779-80 there was only one occurrence of fever in the regiment, and that 
was a pneumonia of a mild form. It was observable in the last war, from 
December 1814 to April 1815, the soldiers at Plattsburgh were not attacked 
with fevers as they had been the preceding winters. The troops during this 
period were not paid a fortunate circumstance to the army, arising from the 
want of funds. This embarrassment, which was considered a national cala- 
mity, proved a blessing to the soldier. When he is found poor in money, 
it is always the case that he abounds in health a fact worth recording." 

To take only one more instance. The 10th corps of the army of the Ger- 
manic Confederation, in the autumn of 1846, had 27,859 men under arms. 
Of these 21,752 received rations of spirits, and gave 472 sick, or 2'17 per 
cent. ; 6107 received no spirits, and gave 79 sick, or 1*27 per cent.J 

Discipline, Temper, Cheerfulness, Endurance. It is a fact known to every 
officer that good discipline is inversety as drunkenness ; but it is not so well 
known that, when debarred from spirits and fermented liquids, men are not 
only better behaved, but are far more cheerful, are less irritable, and endure 
better the hardships and perils of war. The courage and endurance of a 
drunkard are always lessened ; but in a degree far short of drunkenness, spirits 
lower, while temperance raises, the boldness and cheerfulness of spirit which 
a true soldier should possess. This was remarkably shown by the "illustrious 
garrison" of Jellalabad, in the old Affghan war. Debarred from all alcoholic 
beverages, it was noticed by all that the men were not only healthier and 
better behaved, but were more hopeful and cheerful than could have been 
anticipated. Sir John Hall's experience is to the same effect ; and there are 
many other instances. This is no unimportant matter for the combatant 
officer to consider ; the spirit of the troops may make the difference between 
a success or a reverse. The experience of the present American civil war 
abounds in instances of the effects of the use or disuse of spirits. A surgeon 

* This was related to me by one of the men who made the march Corporal Paul of the 12th 
Regiment. 

t Quoted by Hamilton, "Military Surgery," p. 61. 
J Squillier, "Des Subsistances Militaries/' p. 422. 




SPIRITS. 249 

of the United States army, after describing the improvement of discipline, 
says, " The curse of an army is intoxicating liquors ; the spirit ration is the 
great source of all this mischief." 
Another writer says, 

" I have been busily employed in passing through the entire line of the Federal army on 
both sides of the Potomac, and have had excellent opportunities for examining into the 
character and condition of our troops, of whom there are now, in this department of our army 
alone, some 250,000. In general, I have found them in the most satisfactory condition, in good 
health, and well provided with all that a generous Government and a patriotic people can 
furnish. Yet I have had occasion to observe a remarkable difference in the appearance of the 
different regiments. In some cases I have found their men dirty, their camps disorderly, and 
their whole appearance shabby ; in others, everything neat and tidy, orderly, and well disposed. 
On inquiry, I have found that the difference is owing in a great degree to the course which the 
commanding officers have pursued in relation to the use of intoxicating drinks. Where, as in a 
great many instances, the colonel has enacted a ' prohibitory law,' and forbidden the admission 
of liquor into the camp, I find everything in the best condition, the best health, the best order. 
Where there is no 'prohibition,' the men are quarrelsome, disorderly, and slovenly. Any 
colonel can prohibit. Some do, and we see the consequences ; some do not, and we see the 
difference a difference so apparent, that in many cases where the commanders are not them- 
selves teetotallers, they compel their soldiers to be so, in order to maintain good order, and 
have an efficient and well-behaved regiment. I was much gratified to find that a great many 
officers and soldiers abstained entirely not because they were compelled, but chose to do so. 
No small number of officers in high command are teetotallers. The result of all my observa- 
tions in regard to temperance in this great army at Washington is, that the common sense of 
both officers and men is strongly in favour of prohibition ; and wherever it has been enforced 
with fidelity and vigilance (and it requires a good deal of both), it has been in the highest degree 
beneficial. Where prohibition has not been made effective, the difference is so striking, as I 
have said, that it must impress upon all minds the desirableness of having all intoxicants ex- 
cluded, even on the ground of military discipline alone." Times, Nov. 23, 1862. 

Resistance to Disease. 

Malaria. There are instances both for and against the view that spirits 
are useful against malaria. On both sides the evidence is defective ; but 
there are so many cases in which persons have been attacked with malarious 
disease who took spirits, that it is impossible to consider the preventive 
powers great, even if they exist at all. On the other hand, when teetotallers 
have escaped malaria (as in the instance recorded by Drake*), there have 
been other circumstances, such as more abundant food and better lodging, 
which will explain their exemption. The probability is, that the reception 
and action of malaria is not influenced by the presence or absence of alcohol 
in the blood, unless the amount of alcohol is so great as to lessen the amount 
of food taken. 

Yellow Fever. It is a general opinion in New Orleans and Mobile that the 
victims of yellow fever are chiefly those who drink freely (Drake). The old 
West Indian experience is to the same effect. 

CJiolera. Intemperance, per se, has no influence, and teetotalism does not 
guard against cholera. When a regiment is attacked with cholera, and the 
men take to drinking, a number of pseudo-cases come into hospital of vomit- 
ing and cramps, which are often returned as cholera, but I believe they seldom 
if ever pass into true cholera. 

Dysentery. It has been supposed, from some statistics for 1847, published 
in the " Fort George Gazette," that teetotallers were more subject to dysentery, 
but the error was committed of not estimating sufficiently the influence of a 
particular station (Secunderabad), where it so happened a number of tee- 
totallers were stationed during an outbreak of dysentery. The conditions of 
the station were to blame, not the habits of the men. 

Looking back to this evidence, it may be asked, Are there any circumstances 

* On the Interior Valley of North America. 



250 BEVERAGES AND CONDIMENTS. 

of the soldier's life in which the issue of spirits is advisable, and if the ques- 
tion at any time lies between the issue of spirits and total abstinence, which 
is the best 1 

To me there seems but one answer. If spirits neither give strength to the 
body, nor sustain it against disease are not protective against cold and wet, 
and aggravate rather than mitigate the effects of heat if their use even in 
moderation increases crime, injures discipline, and impairs hope and cheerful- 
ness if the severest trials of war have been not merely borne, but most easily 
borne, without them if there is no evidence that they are protective against 
malaria or other diseases then I conceive the medical officer will not be jus- 
tified in sanctioning their issue under any circumstances.* 

The terrible system which in the East and West Indies made men drunkards 
in spite of themselves, and which by the issue of the morning dram did more 
than anything else to shatter the constitutions of the young soldiers, is now 
becoming a thing of the past. But the soldier is still permitted to get spirits 
too easily, and is too ignorant of their fatal influence on his health, t Still 
the British army bears the unhappy character of the most intemperate army 
in Europe, and it is certain that its moments of misconduct and misfortune 
have been too frequently caused by the unrestrainable passion for drink. 
Eemembering all these things, and how certainly it has been proved that 
drunkenness increases the spread of syphilis, it is not too much to say that 
the repression of this vice, both by example and precept, must be considered 
to be the duty of every officer in the army. Moderation should be encou- 
raged by precept and example ; wholesome beer and light wine should be 
invariably substituted for spirits, and if these cannot be procured, then it may 
safely be said that the use of tea, coffee, or simple water, is infinitely prefer- 
able to spirits under all circumstances of the soldier's life. 



SECTION II. 

NON-ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. 

SUB-SECTION I. COFFEE. 

Composition. 

In 100 Parts (Payen). 

Water, 12 

CeUulose, . . .34 

Fatty substances, . . . . . . 10 to 13 

Sugar, dextrin, . , V 15 . 5 

Undetermined vegetable acid, j 

Legumen, ....... 10 

Nitrogenous substance, 3 

Coffee-gallate of potash, and caffein,t . . . 3 '5 to 5 



* Yet so inveterate is the tendency to order spirits, that when great efforts were made, and 
would have been continued to be made, to supply beer to the troops during the Crimean War, 
medical officers were found to advise Lord Raglan to substitute rum for beer. 

f I noticed in a Sanitary Report from Newera Ellia, in Ceylon (in 1860), that invalids who 
are sent to that sanitarium are permitted to purchase spirits cheaply and without restriction. 
What is the use of sending men to hill climates, and then at once neutralising the benefit by 
such a regulation as this, as if the mere change of climate would do all, and sanitary regulations 
and ordinary prudence were quite unnecessary? Sir Hugh Rose issued an order in 1864, 
reducing the spirit ration in India to one-half. He made many improvements ; this was one of 
his greatest. 

Payen calls the acid chloroginic, but I have used the term employed by Rochleder. 



COFFEE. 



251 



Free caffein, 

Insoluble solid oil, ...... 

Aromatic oil, ....... 

Mineral substances Potash, magnesia, lime, phos- ) 
phoric acid, chlorine, J 



In 100 Parts. 
8 

001 
002 



6-679 



The potash is in largest amount. The total amount of caffein (free and 
combined), according to Payen, would be about 1'736 per cent. ; but this is 
more than other observers have found it (1 - 31 per cent.). In roasted coffee 
berries the average of Boutron and Robiquet's analysis gives '238 per cent, of 
caffein. 

When coffee is roasted it swells, but becomes lighter (15 to even 25 per 
cent, if the coffee is dark-roasted). The sugar is changed into caramel, the 
peculiar aroma is developed, the union between the caffein and the coffee- 
gallic acid is broken up ; several gases are formed, viz., carbonic acid (in 
greatest amount), carbonic oxide, and nitrogen. It is owing to these gases 
that the roasted coffee swells so much (Coulier, Recueil de Memoires de Med. 
Mil. Juin 1864, p. 508). The temperature in roasting should not be higher 
than 320 Fahr. 

As an article of diet, coffee stimulates the nervous system, and in large 




Fig. 63. Testa of raw Coffee x 170, the right-hand figure shows the double spiral fibres in 
the raphe of the berry x 500. 

doses produces tremors. It increases the force and frequency of the pulse, 
and removes the sensation of commencing fatigue during exercise. It has 
been said (J. Lehmann and others) to lessen the amount of urea and phos- 



BEVERAGES AND CONDIMENTS. 



phoric acid, but this is doubtful.* It appears, however, to increase the 
urinary water. The pulmonary carbonic acid is said to be increased (E. 
JSmith). It increases the action of the skin. 

Coffee is a most important article of diet for soldiers, as not only is it in- 
vigorating, without producing subsequent collapse, but the hot infusion is 
almost equally serviceable against both cold and heat : in the one case, the 
warmth of the infusion in the other, the action on the skin, being useful, while 
in both cases the nervous stimulation is very desirable. Dr Hooker tells us 
that in the antarctic expedition the men all preferred coffee to spirits, and 
this was the case in the Schleswig-Holstein war of 1849. 

The experience of Algeria and India (where coffee is coming more and 
more into use) proves its use in hot climates. 

But there is another recommendation ; it has been asserted to be protec- 
tive against malaria. The evidence, certainly, is not strong, but still is suffi- 
cient to authorise its large use in malarious districts. 

Making of Coffee. But the use of coffee can never be fully obtained unless 
the infusion is well made, and it should not be beneath the dignity of the 
medical officer to attend to the making of coffee for troops. 

Eoasted and ground coffee must be served out to troops, as the delicate 
operation of roasting can never be performed by soldiers. Exposed to the air, 
the roasted and ground coffee loses its aroma in from two to four months ; but 
if packed in tins it will keep it for several months. The tins should not be too 
large, so that no more than necessary may be exposed to the air. It has been 
said that the tin is acted upon, but this does not appear to be the case for 
some time. 

The coffee must not be boiled, or the aroma is in part dissipated but if 
made with water of 180 or 200, the coffee only gives up 19 to 25 per cent., 

whereas it ought to yield 30 to 35 
per cent. The amount, however, 
depends also on the kind and de- 
gree of roasting. In order to get 
the full benefit of the coffee, there- 
fore, after the infusion has been 
poured off, the grounds should be 
well boiled in some more water, 
and the hot decoction poured over 
fresh coffee, so that it may take up 
aroma ; the coffee thus partially 
exhausted can be used on the next 
occasion for boiling. 

To clear the coffee some cold 
water should be poured in from a 
little height ; the cold water sinks 
through the coffee, and carries down 
the suspended particles. The infu- 
sion of coffee has a specific gravity 
of about 1008 to 1010 ; the oil, 
caffein, sugar, dextrin, and mineral 
matters, are taken up by water. 
Choice of Coffee. This is determined entirely by the aroma and taste of 

* While Hoppe found a decrease in dogs, Voit found no alteration of urea ; and some very 
careful experiments made by Mr Squarey of University College do not confirm Lehmann's 
observations on men so far as the urea is concerned. Mr Squarey's experiments are far more com- 
plete than those of Lehmann ; the urea was not aftected even by very large quantities of coffee. 




Fig. 64. Raw coffee-berry ; transverse section 
X170. 



COFFEE. 



253 



the roasted coffee and of the infusion. If the coffee has been damaged (as 
by sea-water, when the berries are washed in fresh water and redried), there 




Fig. 65. Roasted Coffee ; the dark cells, containing air, show the spiral fibre. 

is always a disagreeable taste even after roasting (Chevallier). The berries 
give up less than usual to water (12 per cent.) 

Adulterations. The mi- 
croscope detects adulterations 
with the greatest facility. 

The structure of the coffee- 
berry is shown in the draw- 
ings. 

The long cells of the testa 
(figs. 63 and 65) are very 
marked. The interior of the 
berry also presents characters 
which are quite evident ; an 
irregular areolar tissue con- 
tains light or dark yellow an- 
gular masses and oil globules ^ 
which are very different from \ fM 
any adulterations. The little 
corkscrew-like unrolled spiral 
fibres are chiefly found in 
the bottom of the raphe. 
The usual adulterations of 
coffee are chicory,* roasted ; 
cereal grains or beans, pota- 
toes, and sugar. 




Fig. 66. Roasted coffee-berry ; transverse section. 



* Chicory is itself adulterated with roasted barley and wheat grain, acorns,, mangold- wurze), 
saw-dust, and beans and peas. 



254 



BEVERAGES AND CONDIMENTS. 



1. Chicory is discovered by its smell; by yielding a darker and denser 
infusion of a specific gravity of 1018 to 1020 ; and by its microscopic char- 
acters. It also sinks in water when roasted, whereas coffee floats in conse- 
quence of the development of gas during roasting ; but this is not a very good 
test, as coffee also sinks at last. The microscopic test is the most important, 




Fig. 67. Chicory root ; cells and dotted ducts. 

and both the cells and dotted ducts of chicory are quite characteristic, at least 
nothing like them exists in coffee. 

2. Eoasted corn or beans are at once known by the starch-grains, which 
frequently preserve the precise character of wheat or barley or beans. (See 
figures of these grains, p. 184.) Iodine turns them at once blue. The infu- 
sion also gives a blue with iodine. 

3. Potato starch is also at once detected ; there is nothing like it in coffee. 
(See figure, p. 189.) 

4. Sugar is detected by solution, and by the copper solution which it re- 
duces, as the kind of sugar is almost always glucose. If caramel or burnt 
sugar be present, make an infusion, evaporate, dry, and taste ; if the extract 
be brittle, dark coloured, and bitter to the taste, caramel has been added 
(Hassall). 

5. Hassall has also detected adulterations with mangold-wurzel, parsnip, 
carrot, acorn, and saw-dust. The cells of mangold-wurzel are like chicory, 
but much larger \ those of carrot and parsnip are something like chicory, but 
contain starch cells ; the starch grains of the acorn are round or oval, with 
a deep culvert depression or hilum. 



SUB-SECTION II. TEA. 

The chief kinds of black tea are Souchong, Congou, Oolong, and Pekoe. 
Bohea is not now found in the market. The chief green teas are Hyson 
Hyson-stem, Twankay, Caper, and Gunpowder. 



TEA. , 255 

Per cent. 
Composition of Black Tea.* Dry tea. Moist tea. 

Them, .... 1-778 1-576 

Albumin, .... 2 -680 2 -375 

Dextrin, .... 9-780 8'668 

Cellulose, .... 22-650 20-077 

Wax, .... '150 -130 

Chlorophyll, . . . 2-145 1-901 

Kesin, .... 2 -486 2-203 

Tannic acid, . . . 15-760 13-969 

jEtherial oil, . . . '755 -669 

Extractive matters, ' . . 20-770 18-410 

Apothema, . . . '780 '690 

Ash, .... 5-425 4-808 

Water, .... ... 6'5 

The ash consists principally of potash, soda, magnesia, phosphoric acid, 
chlorine, carbonic acid, iron, and silica. 

There is rather more tannic acid, and more thein and astherial oil, in green 
than black tea, and less cellulose; otherwise the composition is much the 
same (Mulder). 

In some good teas the amount of thein is much greater. Peligot found as 
much as 6 -21 per cent, in dry tea. The thein is combined with tannic acid. 

Black tea contains from 6 to 10 per cent, of water more often the latter 
quantity ; green tea about 8 per cent. 

Black tea yields to boiling water, . . 29-45 per cent. 

As a mean, .38 ,, 

Green ,, . 40-48 

As a mean, . 43 ,, 

About f-ths of the soluble matters are taken up by the first infusion with 
hot water. 

If water contain much lime or iron, it will not make good tea ; in each 
case the water should be well boiled with a little carbonate of soda for 15 or 
20 minutes, and then poured on the leaves. 

In the infusion are found dextrin, glucose, tannin, and thein. About 47 per 
cent, of the nitrogenous substances pass into the infusion, and 53 per cent, re- 
main undissolved. If soda is added, a still greater amount is given to water. 

The green tea is either natural or coloured (faced) with indigo, Prussian 
blue, clay, carbonate and acetate of copper, curcuma, gypsum, and chalk. 

Scraping the tea-leaves and microscopic examination at once detect the 
shining blue particles of indigo and Prussian blue ; and the addition of an 
acid indicates which is indigo.t Copper is at once detected by solution in an 
acid and addition of ammonia. 

As an Article of Diet. Tea seems to have a decidedly stimulative and res- 
torative action on the nervous system, which is perhaps aided by the warmth 
of the infusion. No depression follows this. The pulse is a little quickened. 
The amount of pulmonary carbonic acid is, according to E. Smith, increased.^ 
The action of the skin is increased ; that of the bowels lessened. The kidney 

* Mean of analyses by Mulder, Warrington, Stenhouse, and Peligot. Taken from Moleschott. 

"|" The brick tea of the Tartars consists of old tea leaves, mixed with the leaves and stems 
of Rhamnus thedzans, Rhododendron, Chrysanthemum, Rosa canina, and other plants, mixed 
with ox's or sheep's blood. It is much used to purify water. 

J Phil. Transactions, 1859. 




Leajves and stalks of best Tea, trou$nt froin. China (1861) Vyp 

natural size . 

Generally in Commercial Tea. the leaves are much larger 8c thicker ,& of terv 

are cut tra-nsvcriy into two-ar-i/hree. po-rts Soone stalks ^cremcLnas- of 
flowers are found. in all Tea, erentiie "best . 




Willow 



Willow 




Camellia Sasanaua. Clalor&nth.u.s Inconspicuas , 

LEAVES USED IN THE ADULTERATION OP TEA. 

TKe Sloe, Willow, OakjBeecK, Elder, and Hawliorn have been nature-printed 2c 
tKen LithoOrapKed . The Drawings of ike ChlorariUius Inconspicu-us wd. tKe Camellia 
Sasanqua, v/liidn are saicxtobe used, "by Ihe Chinese are copied fr am- Hassail. The j.eave5 
of tlit E Im Poplar. Plane are sa-ioL^o'oe sometimes usedinEnolaxud., Falsifica-tion. 
With, any Isind of leaf is however now decide oily uncomnaoii in. tliis covintry 



TEA. 



257 



evaporate to small bulk, and add a little ammonia ; add more water, decolorise 
with animal charcoal, and evaporate slowly to small bulk. White feathery 



Upper Surface. 
x 285. 



Under Surface. 
x 285. 




Fig. 68. --Black Dried Tea Leaf. 

crystals of thein form, which should be collected on filtering paper, dried at a 
very low heat, and weighed. 

Determination of Tannin. 

Make an infusion, and add solution of gelatine ; collect precipitate, dry and 
weigh 100 grains = 40 of tannin (Marcet). 

Examination of Tea. 

Judge of the aroma of the dry tea and infusion ; taste infusion ; spread out 
leaves and see their characters ; collect anything like mineral powder, and 
examine under microscope. 

In making the infusion, take 100 grains of tea to 5 ounces of boiling distilled 
or rain water, so as always to have the infusion of the same strength. Dry 
and weigh the exhausted tea leaves and calculate the percentage of soluble 
matter. If desired, determine the thein and tannin. 



SUB-SECTION III. COCOA. 

Composition. Although the theobromin of cocoa is now known to be 
identical with thein and caffein, the composition of cocoa removes it widely 
from tea and coffee. 

R 



258 



BEVERAGES AND CONDIMENTS. 



The quantity of fat varies even in the same sort of cocoa. The ash contains 
a large quantity of phosphate of potash. 




Fig. 69. Cocoa, Outer Coat x 190. 

Per cent. 

Cocoa fat (stearin, elain, and margarin), . 45 - 49 

Starch, . . . . .14-18 

Grape sugar, ..... -34 

Cane sugar, . . . . . -26 

Cellulose, . . . . 5 -8 

Pigment, . . 3 "5 -- 5 

Protein substances, . . . . 13-18 

Theobromin, . . . . 1 -2 - 1 -5 

Ash, ...... 3-5 

Water, . . . . . 5'6 - 6'3 

As an Article of Diet. The large quantity of fat and albuminoid substance 
makes it a very nourishing article of diet ; and it is therefore useful in weak 
states of the system, and for healthy men under circumstances of great exer- 
tion. It has been even compared to milk. In South America cocoa and maize 
cakes are used by travellers ; and the large amount of agreeable nourishment in 
small bulk enables several days' supplies to be easily carried (Humboldt). 

By roasting, the starch is changed into dextrin ; the amount of margaric 
acid increases, and an empyreumatic aromatic substance is formed. 

The changes depend on the amount of roasting ; the lighter-coloured nuts 
contain more unchanged fat, and less aroma ; the strongly roasted and dark 
cocoas have more aroma and bitterness. 

Clwice and Adulterations. In commerce, cereal grain starches, arrowroot, 
sago, or potato starch and sugar, are very commonly mixed with cocoa ; and 



COCOA. 



259 



some of the so-called homeopathic cocoas are rightly named, for the amount 
of cocoa is very small. Brick-dust and peroxide of iron are sometimes used 
(Normandy).* The structure of the cocoa is very marked. 




Fig. 70. Cocoa, Under Parts, Middle Coat x 190. 

The starch-grains of cocoa are small, and embedded usually in the cells. 
The presence of starch-grains of cereals, arrowroot, sago, or other kinds of 
starch, is at once detected by the microscope (see figures ante of these starches). 
Sugar can be detected by the taste, and by solution. Mineral substances are best 
detected by incineration, digesting in an acid, and testing for iron, lead, &c. 

SECTION III. 

CONDIMENTS. 
SUB-SECTION I. VINEGAR. 

As an Article of Diet. Robert Jackson was of opinion that the use of 
vinegar was too restricted in the army. This opinion he appears to have 
formed from considering the great use of vinegar made by the Eomans. 
Whatever may have been the source of the opinion, there is no doubt of its 
correctness. Acetic acid plays that double part in the body which seems so 
important, of first an acid of a neutral salt, and then, in the form of carbonic 
acid, as the acid of an alkaline salt. But this valuable dietetic quality is 
partly counterbalanced in English vinegar by .the unfortunate circumstance 
that sulphuric acid (y^L^ th part by weight) is allowed to be added to vinegar, 
and thus a strong acid is taken into the body, which is not only not useful in 

* Hassall examined 54 samples ; 8 were genuine, 43 contained sugar, and 46 starch ; 39 out 
of 68 samples contained earthy colouring matter, as reddle, Venetian red, and umber (On 
Adulteration, p. 169). 

R2 



260 BEVERAGES AND CONDIMENTS. 

nutrition, but which is hurtful, from the tendency to form insoluble salts of 
lime. As the addition of sulphuric acid is not necessary, and, indeed, is not 
permitted on the Continent, it is to be hoped the Legislature will soon alter a 
system which has the effect only of injuring an important article of diet. The 
amount of vinegar which may be used may be from one to several ounces. 
On marches, the Romans mixed it with water as a beverage. 

Examination of Vinegar. Several kinds of vinegar are in the market, 
known by the Nos. 16, 18, 20, 22, 24. Nos. 22 and 24 are the best, and 
contain about 5 per cent, of pure acetic acid. The weakest kinds contain less 
than 3 per cent. 

Examination. 

duality. 1. Take specific gravity of the best, 1022; of the worst, 1015. 
If below this, water has been added. 

2. Determine acidity of 100 grains, or of 10 C.C., with the alkaline solu- 
tion (see Beer). 

The acidity of English vinegar is chiefly caused by acetic and sulphuric 
acids ; but it is usually calculated at once as dry acetic acid. If it falls below 
3 per cent., water has probably been added. (The lowest noted by Hassall 
in 33 samples was 2 -29.) 

If the specific gravity be low, and the acidity high, excess of sulphuric 
acid may have been added. 

If the alkaline solution cannot be prepared, the acidity must be determined 
with dried or crystallised carbonate of soda. Weigh 100 grains of dried car- 
bonate of soda, and add portions carefully to a weighed quantity of vinegar 
(100 grains, or 10 grammes), till it is neutralised ; then weigh the remaining 
carbonate of soda, and calculate according to the atomic weights (53 : 5 1 : : a : x) y 
or multiply the quantity used by '962 ; the result is the amount of anhydrous 
acetic acid in the quantity of vinegar experimented upon. 

In adding carbonate of soda to wine vinegar, the colour becomes dark and inky. 
Ammonia also gives a purplish precipitate in wine, but not in malt vinegar. 

3. If excess of sulphuric acid be suspected, it must be determined by baryta ; 
this requires care, as sulphates may be introduced in the water. Hydrochloric 
acid and chloride of barium are added ; the sulphate of baryta collected, dried, 
weighed, and multiplied by -34309. 

Adulterations. Water ; sulphuric acid in excess (see ante) ; hydrochloric 
acid (uncommon) ; or common salt (detected by nitrate of silver and dilute 
nitric acid) ; pyroligneous acid (distil and re-distil the distillate, the residue 
will have the smell of pyroligneous acid) ; lead ; copper from vessels (evapo- 
rate to dryness, incinerate, dissolve in weak nitric acid, divide into two parts, 
pass SH through one, and test for copper in the other by ammonia, or by a 
piece of iron wire) ; corrosive sublimate (pass SH, collect precipitate) ; capsi- 
cum, pellitory, or other pungent substances (evaporate nearly to dryness, and 
taste if the extract is hot and pungent) ; burnt sugar (evaporate to dryness, 
dissolve in boiling alcohol, evaporate to syrup, taste ; burnt sugar gives a 
bitter taste and a dark colour to the syrup). 

The presence of copper in the vinegar used for pickles may be easily de- 
tected by simply inserting the bright blade of a knife. 

SUB-SECTION II. MUSTARD. 

Good mustard is known by the sharp acrid smell and taste. It is adul- 
terated with turmeric (detected by microscope and liquor potassse), wheat or 
barley starch (detected by microscope and iodine), and linseed (detected by 
microscope). Every sample of mustard is at present mixed with turmeric and 



MUSTARD. 



2(51 



starch of some kind. Clay and plaster of Paris are sometimes added, and 
cayenne is added to bring up the sharpness, if much flour is used. 

The microscopic characters of mustard are well marked-. The outer coat of 




Fig. 71. White Mustard Seed. Cuticle consisting of a perforated cellular epiderm and 
cilage cells, some by expansion escaping through the cuticular openings after being placed in 



mucilage 
water. 




?\m 

7 ift 

Fig. 72. White Mustard Seed. 1. Outer coat, cuticle mucilage cells ; 2. Fibrous reticular ; 
3. Small angular cells ; 4. Large cells and very delicate membrane ; 5. Interior of seed with a 
few minute oil globules. 

the white mustard consists of a stratum of hexagonal cells, perforated in the 
centre, arid other cells which occupy the centre portion of the hexagonal 



262 



BEVERAGES AND CONDIMENTS. 



cells, and escape through the opening when swollen from imbibition of water 
these cells are believed to contain the mucilage which is obtained when mustard 
is placed in water. There are two internal coats made up of small angular 




Fig. 73. White Mustard Seed. Central part x 205. 

cells ; the structure of the seed consists of numerous cells containing oil, but 
no starch. The black mustard has the same characters, without the infundi- 
buliform cells. 

SUB-SECTION III. PEPPER. 

Pepper is adulterated with linseed, mustard husks, wheat and pea flour, rape 
cake, and ground rice. The microscope at once detects these adulterations. 




Fig. 74. Black Pepper Berry. Between centre and cortex. 



PEPPER. 



263 



The microscopic characters of pepper are rather complicated ; there is a 
husk composed of four or five layers of cells and a central part. The cortex 
has externally elongated cells, placed vertically, and provided with a central 
cavity, from which lines radiate towards the circumference ; then come some 
strata of angular cells, which, towards the interior, are larger and filled with 




M 

Fig. 75. Transverse Section of Black Pepper Berry. 

oil. The third layer is composed of woody fibre and spiral cells. The fourth 
layer is made up of large cells, which towards the interior become smaller and 
of a deep red colour ; they contain most of the essential oil of the pepper. 
The central part of the berry is composed of large angular cells, about twice as 
long as broad. Steeped in water, some of these cells become yellow, others 
remain colourless. It has been supposed that the yellow cells contain peperine, 
as they give the same reactions as peperine does ; the tint, namely, is deepened 
by alcohol and nitric acid, and sulphuric acid applied to a dry section causes 
a reddish hue (Hassall). 

White pepper is the central part of the seed, but some small particles of 
cortex are usually mixed with it. It is composed of cells containing very 
small starch-grains. Hassall says that the central white cells are so hard that 
they may be mistaken for particles of sand. A little care would avoid this. 
The starch-grains are easily detected, however small, by iodine. 

Pepper dust is merely the sweepings of the warehouses. Eape or linseed 
cake, cayenne and mustard husks, are mixed with pepper dust, and it is then 
sold as pepper. 



264 BEVERAGES AND CONDIMENTS. 




Fig. 76. Section of Black Pepper Berry ('central portion). 

SUB-SECTION IY. SALT. 

The goodness of salt is known by its whiteness, fine crystalline character, dry- 
ness, complete and clear solution in water. The coarser kinds, containing often 
chloride of magnesium, and, perhaps, lime salts, are darker coloured, more or less 
deliquescent, and either not thoroughly crystallised or in too large crystals. 

SECTION IV. 

LEMON JUICE. 

Lemon juice is an extremely important article of diet, not merely on board 
ship, but in campaigns, where fresh vegetables always run short. In this case 
one ounce of lemon juice per man should be issued daily, and as on board 
ship, should be commenced ten days after the deprivation of the vegetables. 
If dried vegetables are used, half the quantity of lemon juice will probably be 
sufficient. Sugar is added to it, to make it more agreeable to taste, in the pro- 
portion of half its weight. Lemon juice is usually issued in bottles containing 
three to four pints, not quite filled, and is covered with a layer of olive oil. 
About 1 ounce of brandy is added to each 10 ounces of juice. Sometimes the 
juice is boiled, and no brandy is added; the former kind keeps best (Armstrong). 
Both are equal in anti-scorbutic power (Armstrong). Good lemon juice will 
keep for some years, at least three years (Armstrong) ; bad lime juice soon 
becomes turbid, and then stringy and mucilaginous, and the citric and malic 
acids decompose. Some turbity and precipitate does not, however, destroy 
its powers. 

Examination of Lemon Juice. 

1. Pour into a glass and mark physical characters; turbidity, precipitate, 
stringiness, &c. The taste should be pleasant, acid, but not bitter. 



LEMON JUICE. 265 

2. Determine the degree of acidity by the plan given in the section on 
Beer. Neutralise by the alkaline solution, and multiply by the co-efficient of dry 
or hydrated citric acid. The old equivalent of citric acid is C 4 H 2 4 , but since 
the observations of Liebig it is considered to be tribasic with an equivalent of 
C ]2 H 5 O n , and it is usually combined with 3HO. (The co-efficient for 1 C.C. 
of alkaline solution is '0165 for the dry acid.) 

If the old equivalent be taken, the amount of citric acid in grains, in 100 
grains of lemon juice, will be from 2 to 6 ; in an ounce there will be from 15 
to 25 grains. Reckoned as tribasic, the co-efficient for 1 C.C. of alkaline 
solution is '0165; but then, as the acid is tribasic, the amount of alkaline 
solution used must be divided by three. Usually, for 1 C.C. of lemon juice 
from 9 to 12 C.C. of the centinormal alkaline solution are required. If the 
alkaline solution cannot be obtained, dried carbonate of soda must be used. 

3. Test for adulteration, viz. 

(a.) Tartaric Acid. Dilute and filter, if the lime juice be turbid ; add a 
little solution of acetate of potash ; stir well, without touching the sides of 
the glass, and leave for twenty-four hours ; if tartaric acid be present the bi- 
tartrate of potash will fall. 

(I).} Sulphuric Acid. Add chloride of barium after nitration, if necessary ; 
if any precipitates fall, add a little water and a few drops of dilute hydro- 
chloric acid ; dissolve the citrate of baryta, which sometimes causes a turbidity. 

(c.) Hydrochloric Acid. Test with nitrate of silver and a few drops of 
dilute nitric acid. 

(d.) Nitric Acid. This is an uncommon adulteration ; the iron or brucine 
test can be used, ac in the case of water. 

(e.) Phosphoric Acid. It has been lately stated (Morgan, in the " Journal 
of the Society of Arts," April 1864, p. 349) that both Admiralty and com- 
mercial lemon juice have been found to contain phosphoric acid. In 1 gallon 
of the former 91 grains of phosphoric acid were found (combined with soda). 
It will be detected by evaporation to dryness, incineration, resolution in 
water, or a little acetic acid, and precipitation as ammoniaco-magnesian phos- 
phate. (See WATER, page 34). Professor Morgan considers the phosphoric 
acid a valuable ingredient of the lemon juice. 

Factitious Lemon Juice. 

It is not at all easy to distinguish well-made factitious lemon juice ; about 
552 grains of crystallised citric acid (C. + 3aq.) are dissolved in a wine pint 
of water, which is flavoured with essence of lemon dissolved in spirits. This 
corresponds to about 19 or 20 grains of dry citric acid per ounce. The flavour 
is not, however, quite like that of the real juice, and the taste is sharper. 

Substitutes for Lemon Juice. 

Citric acid is the best, or citrate of potash ; then perhaps vinegar, though 
this is inferior, and lowest of all is nitrate of potash.* The tartrates, lac- 
tates, and acetates of the alkalies may all be used, but I am not aware of any 
good experiments on their relative anti-scorbutic powers. If milk is procur- 
able, it may be allowed to become acid, and the acid then neutralised with an 
alkali. The fresh juices of many plants, especially species of Cacti, can be 
used, the plant being crushed and steeped in water ; and in case neither vege- 
tables, lemon juice, nor any of its substitutes can be procured, we ought not 
to omit the trial of such plants of this kind as may be obtainable. 

* On this point see Bryson's paper in the "Medical Times and Gazette," 1850. I may also 
refer to a review on scurvy, which I contributed to the " British and Foreign Medical Chirur- 
gical Review," in October 1848, for evidence on this point. 



CHAPTER VIII. 
SOILS. 

TOPOGRAPHICAL REPORTS AND CHOICE OF SITES. 

THE term soil is used here in a large sense, to express all the portion of the 
crust of the earth, which by any property or condition can affect health. The 
subdivision into surface soil and subsoil is often very useful ; and these 
terms need no definition. 

SECTION I. 
CONDITIONS OF SOIL AFFECTING HEALTH. 

Soil may affect health : 

1. By its conformation and elevation. 

2. By the vegetation covering it. 

3. By its mechanical structure, which influences absorption and radiation 

of heat ; reflection of light ; absorption of water ; movement of water 
over and through the soil ; passage of air through soil ; formation of 
dust. 

4. By its chemical structure, which acts especially by altering the com- 

position of the air over the soil, or the water running through it. 

In addition, the aspect of a place ; and the amount of sunshine and light it 
receives, are very important. 

All these points should receive attention in reports on sites ; and it will be 
found convenient to make the report in the above order. 

SUB-SECTION I. CONFORMATION AND ELEVATION. 

The relative amounts of hill and plain ; the elevation of the hills ; their 
direction ; the angle of slope ; the kind, size, and depth of valleys ; the chief 
water-sheds, and the direction and discharge of the water-courses ; the amount 
of fall of plains, are the chief points to be considered. 

Among hills, the unhealthy spots are enclosed valleys, punch-bowls, any 
spot where the air must stagnate ; ravines, or places at the head or entrance 
of ravines. 

In the tropics, especially, ravines and nullahs are to be avoided, as they are 
often filled with decaying vegetation, and currents of air frequently traverse 
them. During the heat of the day, the current of air is up the ravine ; at 
night, down it. As the hills cool more rapidly than the surrounding plains, 
the latter current is especially dangerous, as the air is at once impure and cold. 
The worst ravine is a long narrow valley, contracted at its outlet, so as to dam 
up the water behind it. A saddleback is usually healthy, if not too much ex- 



SOILS. 267 

posed ; so are positions near the top of a slope. One of the most difficult 
points to determine in hilly regions is the probable direction of winds ; they 
are often deflected from their course, or the rapid cooling of the hills at night 
produces alteration. 

On plains, the most dangerous points are generally at the foot of hills, 
especially in the tropics, where the water, stored up in the hills, and flowing 
to the plain, causes an exuberant vegetation at the border of the hills. 

A plain at the foot of hills may be healthy, if a deep ravine cuts off com- 
pletely the drainage of the hill behind it. 

The next most dangerous spots are depressions below the level of the plain, 
and into which therefore there is drainage. Even gravelly soils may be damp 
from this cause, the water rising rapidly through the loose soil from the 
pressure of higher levels. 

Elevation acts chiefly by its effect in lessening the pressure of the air, and 
in increasing the rapidity of evaporation (see CLIMATE). It has a powerful 
effect on marshes ; high elevations lessening the amount of malaria, partly 
from the rapid evaporation, partly from the greater production of cold at 
night. Yet, malarious marshes may occur at great elevations, even 6000 feet 
(Erzeroum and Mexico). 

SUB-SECTION II. VEGETATION. 

The effect of vegetation on ground is very important. In cold climates, the 
sun's rays are obstructed, and evaporation from the ground is slow ; the ground 
is therefore cold and moist, and the removal of wood renders the climate 
milder and dryer. The extent to which trees impede the passage of water 
through the soil is considerable. 

In hot countries, vegetation shades the ground, and makes it cooler. The 
evaporation from the surface is lessened ; but the evaporation from the vege- 
tation is so great, as to produce a perceptible lowering effect on the temperature 
of a place. 

The hottest and driest places in the tropics are those divested of trees. 

Vegetation produces also a great effect on the movement of air. Its velo- 
city is checked ; and sometimes in thick clusters of trees or underwood the 
air is almost stagnant. If moist and decaying vegetation be a coincident con- 
dition of such stagnation, the most fatal forms of malarious disease are pro- 
duced. 

Vegetation may thus do harm by obstructing the movement of air ; on the 
other hand, it may guard from currents of impure air. The protective influence 
of a belt of trees against malaria is most striking. 

In a hygienic point of view, vegetation must be divided into herbage, 
brushwood, and trees ; and these should be severally commented on in 
reports. 

Herbage is always healthy. In the tropics it cools the ground, both by 
obstructing the sun's rays, and by aiding evaporation ; and nothing is more 
desirable than to cover, if it be possible, the hot sandy plains of the tropics 
with close-cut grass. In several places this has been done with excellent 
effects. 

Brushwood is almost always bad, and should be removed. It must be re- 
membered, however, that its removal will sometimes, on account of the 
disturbance of the ground, increase malarious disease for the time ; and there- 
fore, in the case of a temporary camp in a hot malarious country, it is often 
desirable to avoid disturbing it. When removed, the work should be carried 
on in the heat of the day, i.e., not in the early morning, or in the evening. 



268 SOILS. 

Trees should be removed with judgment. In cold countries they shelter 
from cold winds ; in hot, they cool the ground ; in both, they may protect 
from malarious currents. A decided and pernicious interference with the 
movement of air should be almost the only reason for removing them. In 
some of the hottest countries of the world, as in Southern Burmah, the in- 
habitants place their houses under trees with the best effects and it was a 
rule with the Eomans to encamp their men under trees in all hot countries. 

The kind of vegetation, except as being indicative of a damp or dry soil, 
does not appear to be of importance. 

SUB-SECTION III. MECHANICAL STRUCTURE. 

(a.) As influencing Heat. The heat of the sun is absorbed in different 
amounts by different soils equally shielded or unshielded by vegetation. The 
colour of the soil and its aggregation seem chiefly to determine it. The dark, 
loose, incoherent sands are the hottest ; even in temperate climates Arago 
found the temperature of sand on the surface to be 122 Fahr., and at the 
Cape of Good Hope, Herschel observed it to be no less than 159.* The heat- 
ing power of the sun's rays is indeed excessive. In India, the thermometer 
placed on the ground and exposed to the sun will mark 160 (Buist), while 
two feet from the ground it will only mark 120. Buist thinks that if pro- 
tected from currents of air it would mark 212 when placed on the ground. 
The absorbing and radiating powers of soils are not necessarily equal, though 
they may be so. Generally the radiating power is more rapid than the absorb- 
ing ; soils cool more rapidly than they heat. Some of the marshes in Mexico 
cool so rapidly at night that the evolution of malaria is stopped, and the marsh 
is not dangerous during the night. A thermometer marked 32 Fahr. on the 
ground, while 16 feet above the ground it marked 50 Fahr. (Jourdanet). 

With regard to absorbing power, the following table by Schiibler contains 
the only good experiments at present known : 

Power of retaining heat ; 100 being assumed as the standard. 



Clayey earth, . . 6 8 -4 

Pure clay, . . . 66 '7 

Fine chalk, . . . 61 -8 

Humus, ... 49 



Sand with some lime, . 100 

Pure sand, . . . 95 '6 

Light clay, . ... . 7 6 -9 

Gypsum, . . . 73*2 

Heavy clay, . . . 71 '11 

The great absorbing power of the sands is thus evident, and the compara- 
tive coldness of the clays and humus. Herbage lessens greatly the absorbing 
power of the soil, and radiation is more rapid. On the Orinoco a naked 
granite rock has been known to have a temperature of 118 Fahr., while an 
adjacent rock, covered with grass, had a temperature 32 lower. 

In cold countries, therefore, the clayey soils are cold, and as they are also 
damp, they favour the production of rheumatism and catarrhs ; the sands are, 
therefore, the healthiest soils in this respect. In hot countries the sands are 
objectionable from their heat, unless they can be covered with grass. They 
sometimes radiate heat slowly, and therefore the air is hot over them day and 
night. 

The sun's rays cause two currents of heat in soil one wave diurnal, the 
heat passing down in temperate climates to about four feet in depth during the 
day, and receding during the night ; the depth, however, varying with the 



* Meteorology, p. 41. 



SOILS. 269 

nature of the soil, and with the season ; the other wave is annual, and in 
temperate climates the wave of summer heat reaches from 50 to 100 feet. 
The line of uniform yearly temperature is from 57 to 99 feet below the surface 
(Forbes). 

Not only does the amount of radiation differ in different soils, but a change 
is produced in the heat by the kind of soil. The remarkable researches of 
Tyndall have shown,* that the heat radiated from granite passes through 
aqueous vapour much more readily than the heat radiated by water (though 
the passage is much more obstructed than in dry air). In other words, the 
luminous heat rays of the sun pass freely through aqueous vapours, and fall 
on water and granite ; but the absorption produces a change in the heat, so 
that it issues again from water and granite changed in quality ; it will be 
most important for physicians if other soils are found to produce analogous 
changes. 

(&.) Reflection of Light. This is a matter of colour ; the white glaring 
soils reflect light, and such soils are generally also hot as the rays of heat are 
also reflected. The effect of glare on the eyes is obvious, and in the tropics 
this becomes a very important point. If a spot bare of vegetation, and with 
a white surface, must be used for habitations, some good result may be 
obtained by colouring the houses pale blue or green ; and possibly in the case 
of masses of white rock opposite windows it might be possible to partly colour 
them also. 

(c.) Absorption and retention of Water. Some soils absorb and retain water 
more than others ; apd some experiments have been made by Schiibler on this 
point. Sand absorbs very little ; clays about ten to twenty times more ; and 
humus or common surface soil more than forty or fifty times as much as sand. 
Some soils retain water with great tenacity. After several months of long- 
continued drought, Mr Church found a light calcareous clay-loam subsoil, rest- 
ing on the Forest marble, contain from 19 to 28 per cent, of water. 

Professor Anstedt gives the following amount of the usual quantity of 
water contained in soils in this country : 

Gallons of Water in 
each cubic foot. 

Loose sea-sand, . . . . .2 

Ordinary sandstones, . . . . .1 

Best . . . . . 0-625 

Limestones (densest), . . . . 0'5 

Bath stone, ...... 1 

Magnesian limestone, . . . . 1 -5 

Soft chalk, ...... 2 

Clays often contain as much as 10 per cent, of water by weight the driest 
granites and marbles from '4 to 4 per cent, by weight, or about a pint in each 
cubic yard. It is said that the soil from disintegrated granite or trap rock is 
very absorbent of water, as in the case of the black or so-called cotton soil of 
India, which is derived from trap. 

The absorption of water seems important in two ways ; 1st, Such soils are 
moist ; 2d, If they contain organic matter the moisture aids in its decomposi- 
tion, and such soils, though not rich in organic matter, may be malarious. 

(d.) Movement of Water over and through Soils. No soils are absolutely 
impermeable to water, but practically a division can be made into the imper- 
meable and the permeable soils. The impermeable soils, into which, perhaps, 

* Chemical News, March 5, 1864, p. 114. 
t Journal of the Soc. of Arts, Feb. 1865. 



270 SOILS. 

not more than 5 to 10 per cent, of the rain penetrates, are the granitic and 
trap rocks ; the clay slates ; the hard sandstones, such as the millstone grit ; 
the hard limestones and magnesian limestones, such as the mountain limestone, 
and dolomites, and the clays. Some kinds of clay are as impermeable to 
water as the hardest rocks, and the addition of even Jg-th part of clay to sand 
checks in an extraordinary degree the transit of water. 

Of the above soils, on some the water runs oif, as in the granite, clay- 
slates, &c. ; in others, it lodges, as in the clays. This is a sequence merely 
of conformation ; the hard rocks having for the most part a great slope, the 
clays being flat. But this makes the difference between healthy and unhealthy 
soils; when the water runs rapidly off, the hard soils are the healthiest of all 
soils (provided the drinking water is good) ; when the water lodges, the soil 
is cold, the air damp, foggy, relaxing in its effect on the body. Catarrhs 
and rheumatism are more common, and malaria, if its sources* exist, is more 
widely diffused. 

The permeable soils are the sandstones (except when traversed by veins of 
clay), the loose sands and the chalk, except where marly. Of the water fall- 
ing on these soils, 25 per cent, penetrates into the sand rocks, about 42 per 
cent, penetrates into the chalk, and from 60 to 96 per cent, into the loose 
sands. The water passes rapidly through the soil. These very permeable 
soils are healthy, unless either a clay stratum or a hard rock a few feet below 
the surface holds up the water, and makes the sand moist by evaporation, 
which can be always detected by boring holes ; or unless the soil also contains 
a large quantity of organic matter, of which an example is given farther on. 

Buhl* has endeavoured to show that the prevalence (mortality ?) of typhoid 
fever stands in causal connection with the position of the water in the soil 
(ground or subsoil water), and increases as this gets low, and the reverse ; just 
as Pettenkofer has endeavoured to connect the prevalence of cholera with the 
same condition. His facts are interesting, but the point requires much more 
investigation. 

As a rule, then, the dry soils, whether impermeable or permeable, are 
healthy ; not only is there less disease (catarrhs, rheumatism), but persons 
feel better, and nutrition seems better performed. 

(e.) Passage of Air through Soils. Some of Pettenkofer's observations on 
cholera show that the effluvia from decomposing cholera evacuations may 
pass to some distance through very loose soils, and it is by no means impos- 
sible that the effluvia from typhoid stools or common fecal matters may do 
the same. It is a practical point of importance, especially on the sandy 
plains of India, to see that there is no chance of transmission of disease in 
this way. 

(/.) The amount of dust given off from soils is not a matter of slight 
moment. Apart from its inconvenience, the irritation has a decided effect 
on the eyes, and possibly even on the lungs and stomach, though on this 
point the evidence is not satisfactory. 



SUB-SECTION IV. CHEMICAL COMPOSITION. 

The chemical composition of the soil is important as affecting drinking 
water and air. The first point has been fully considered in the chapter on 
WATER. 

As regards air, some gases, such as carburetted hydrogen, ammonia, sul- 

* Zeitschrift fur Biologie, band i. p. 1 (1865). 



SOILS. 271 

phuretted hydrogen, are given off by certain soils. Diffusion and the wind, 
for the most part, so rapidly dissipate these gases that they produce no bad 
effects. Organic matters are also given off, the nature of which is not yet 
known (see Air over Marshes, p. 80). 

It can hardly be doubted that it is some of these organic matters which 
produce the remarkable fevers with periodical returns, for I presume it may 
now be assumed that such fevers are not produced by heat or electricity, or 
great exercise in the sun, or any other alleged cause of the kind, but must 
own a special and constant agent which is produced almost everywhere by 
decomposition going on in the soil, especially when the conditions come 
together of organic matter in the soil heat, water, and limited access of air. 

If it be asked, What exact chemical conditions of soil produce the malaria 
which causes periodical fevers ? the answer cannot be given, because no great 
chemist has ever systematically prosecuted this inquiry, and, in fact, it may 
be said that, singularly enough, there are few good analyses of malarious soil, 
although no problem is perhaps more important to the human race. It seems 
pretty clear that the mineral constituents of the soil are of little or no conse- 
quence. Malaria will prevail on chalk, limestone, sand, and even, under 
special conditions, on granite soils. 

The following soils have been known to cause the evolution of the agent 
causing periodical fevers in the malarious zone. 

1. Marshes. Except those with peaty soils, those which are regularly over- 
flowed by the sea (and not occasionally inundated),* and the marshes in the 
southern hemisphere (Australia, IsTew Zealand, New Caledonia), and some 
American marshes, which, from some as yet unknown condition, do not pro- 
duce malaria. 

The chemical characters of well-marked marshes are a large percentage of 
water, but no flooding; a large amount of organic matter (10 to 45 per cent.) 
with variable mineral constituents ; silicates of alumina ; sulphates of lime 
magnesia and alkalies ; carbonate of lime, &c. The surface is flat, with a 
slight drainage ; vegetation is generally abundant. 

The analyses of the worst malarious marshes show a large amount of vege- 
table organic matter. A marsh in Trinidad gave 35 per cent. ; the middle 
layer in the Tuscan Maremma 30 per cent. The organic matter is made 
up of humic, ulmic, crenic, and apocrenic acids all substances which require 
renewed investigation at the hands of chemists. Vegetable matter embedded 
in the soil decomposes very slowly ; in the Tuscan Maremma, which must 
have existed many centuries, if not thousands of years, many of the plants 
are still undestroyed. The slow decomposition is much aided by heat, which 
makes the soil alkaline from ammonia (Angus Smith), and retarded by cold, 
which makes the ground acid, especially in the case of peaty soils. 

It would now seem tolerably certain that the growing vegetation covering 
marshes has nothing to do with the development of malaria. 

2. Large collection of Vegetable Matter in the soils of Valleys, Ravines, fyc. 

* The effect of salt water on marshes is a problem which has been much debated, and I believe 
the statement in the Section reconciles most statements. It was the older writers (Sylvius, Lan- 
cisi, and Pringle) who insisted on the noxious qualities of exhalations from marshes with water 
containing salt, and there is certain evidence that the occasional overflowing of the sea in some of 
the Italian marshes, for example, has been followed by a great development of paroxysmal fevers. 
But there is much evidence similar to those given by Robert Jackson, who says ("Fevers in 
Jamaica," 1791, p. 4) : " I have never found the neighbourhood of salt marshes, in the different 
parts of America that I have had an opportunity of visiting, less healthful than the rest of the 
country ; on the contrary, they were frequently more so." And the case of Singapore, which 
has created such surprise, and is cited even by Hirsch as an exceptional case, is of this kind ; 
the regular tidal overflow, though it causes the development of much sulphuretted hydrogen, 
prevents the formation of malaria. 



272 SOILS. 

3. Sandy Plains. The analysis of such sand has not been yet properly 
made, but two conditions seem of importance. Some sands, which to the 
eye appear quite free from organic admixture, contain much organic matter. 
Faure has pointed out that the sandy soil of the Landes in south-west France 
contains a large amount of organic matter, which is slowly decomposing, and 
passes into both air and water, causing periodical fevers. This may reason- 
ably be conjectured to be the case with other malarious sands. Then, under 
some sands, a few feet from the surface, there is clay, and the sand is moist 
from evaporation. Under a great heat, a small quantity of organic matter 
may thus be kept in a state of change. This is especially the case along the 
dried beds of water-courses and torrents ; there is always a subterranean stream, 
and the soil is impregnated with vegetable matter. 

4. Certain Hard Rocks and Disintegrated Rocks are said to be Malarious. 
In Brazil (" M 'William on Yellow Fever in Brazil," p. 7), and in the Mysore 
country of India, certain dark granitoid or metamorphic trap or hornblendic 
rocks are said to give rise to fever,* and the same statement has been made 
in respect of the weathered and disintegrated granite of Hong-Kong. In fact, 
many Indian surgeons entertain a strong opinion of the unhealthiness of dis- 
integrated granite. The statement (Heyne of Madras) that iron hornblende 
is concerned in the production of periodical fevers is now known to be in- 
correct, as several healthy stations in India (Himalaya stations) are situated 
on such rocks. Richter also statest that observations on the Saxon hills 
entirely contradict Heyne' s statements. 

The disintegrated granite of Hong-Kong contains a small proportion of 
organic matter, J which could hardly produce malaria. Friedel, however, has 
stated that the disintegrated granite, which is highly absorbent of water, be- 
comes often permeated by a fungus, and it would be interesting to see if there 
is any relation between the development of this fungus and the production of 
malaria. 

The magnesian limestone rocks which have been subjected to volcanic action 
have also been supposed to be especially malarious (Kirk, who instances the 
rocks at Sukkur), but the evidence has not been yet corroborated. 

5. Iron Salts. Sir Ranald Martin has directed attention to the fact that 
many reputed malarious soils contain a large proportion of iron. No good 
evidence has been adduced that this is connected with malaria, but the point 
is well worthy of investigation. Boussingault has pointed out that the oxides 
of iron in clays aid in the absorption of oxygen ; the peroxide of iron is an 
oxidising agent, giving off an atom of oxygen to an oxidisable substance, and 
again taking an atom of oxygen from the air. It is therefore possible that it 
may aid in a partial oxidation of vegetable matter. But certainly many most 
healthy soils contain a large amount of iron. 

A medical officer is often placed in a very difficult position when he has 
to give an opinion on the probability of a soil (not evidently marshy) being 
free from malaria or not. Two points must be considered : 

1. Can malaria be drifted to the place in any way; how far off are de- 
cided marshes ; do winds blow over such marshes ; are there any protective 
eminences or belts of trees? It must be remembered that in the tropics 
currents of air will pass for some distance from the banks of rivers, or from 

* The syenite of Brazil becomes coated by a dark substance, and looks like plumbago, and 
the Indians believe that rocks thus blackened cause "calenture," or fevers. 

f Schmidt's Jahrb. 1864, No. 5, p. 240. 

An analysis made in the Army Medical School Laboratory shows less than 2 per cent, of 
organic matter in a sample of disintegrated granite from Hong-Kong. 

Ost Asiens, von C. Friedel, 1863. 



SOILS. 273 

ground covered with vegetation, over hot plains, from which heated air 
ascends by night as well as by day, so that a place in this way may become 
malarious. 

2. Can malaria be generated on the spot itself? Of course the character of 
a marsh cannot be mistaken, but there may be no marsh ; then the soil and 
subsoil should be thoroughly examined ; deep holes dug to find the depth of 
water, and this should be done in the wet season, if possible, and the amount 
of organic matter in the soil should be determined. In this way a conclusion 
can generally be come to ; but in all cases, if possible, let an actual trial be 
made of the place, supposing it be intended for a permanent cantonment. 

The following table condenses some of these points : 

Soils with the largest Organic Emanations. 

1. Alluvial soils, old estuaries, deltas, &c. 

Peaty soils are much less malarious. 

Marshes overflowed regularly by the sea are often healthy. 

The occasional admixture of salt water increases the emanations. 

2. Sands, if there is an impermeable clay or marly subsoil. 

Old water-courses. 

3. The lower parts of the chalk, when there is a subsoil of dense gault or 

clay, and bad drainage. 

4. Weathered granitic and trap rocks, if vegetable matter has become in- 

termixed. Such soils absorb both heat and water. 



SECTION II. 
GENEEAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE HEALTHINESS OF SOILS. 

It is of course always useful to know the geological formation of a place, 
but the value of this knowledge must not be overrated. A geological forma- 
tion may include rocks of very various mechanical and chemical composition. 
In many cases we want to know the condition as to permeability, organic 
substance, or moisture of a very limited area ; so to speak, it is the house, and 
not the regional, geology which is of use to us. Still, geological terms have 
their value for our purpose, as expressing, in some cases, the usual conditions 
of conformation, and -mechanical and chemical properties. 

1. The Granitic, Metamorphic, and Trap Rocks. Sites on these formations 
are usually healthy ; the slope is great, water runs off readily ; the air is com- 
paratively dry ; vegetation is not excessive ; marshes and malaria are com- 
paratively infrequent, and few impurities pass into the drinking water. It 
has been noticed that Asiatic cholera is infrequent in houses seated on such 
rocks, as well as on hard volcanic rocks, and this has been attributed to un- 
known influences excited by such formations on the air ; the cause is, most 
probably, as Pettenkofer has pointed out, merely that the cholera stools do 
not penetrate into the soil, but are carried off by the steep slope and rapid 
falls of rain. As such regions are also often elevated, strong currents of air are 
more frequent, and the particles derived from the dried stools are carried away. 

When these rocks have been weathered and disintegrated, and when they 
often yield a red or dark coloured soil, they are supposed to be unhealthy. 
Such soil is certainly absorbent of water ; and the disintegrated granite of 
Hong-Kong is said to be rapidly permeated by a fungus ; but exact evidence 
as to the effect of disintegrated granite or trap is really wanting. 

2. The Clay Slate. These rocks precisely resemble the granite and grani- 



274 SOILS. 

toid formations in their effect on health. They have usually much slope ; are 
very impermeable ; vegetation is scanty ; and nothing is added to air or to 
drinking water. 

They are consequently healthy. Water, however, is often scarce ; and, as 
in the granite districts, there are swollen brooks during rain, and dry water- 
courses at other times swelling rapidly after rains. 

3. The Limestone and Magnesian Limestone Rocks. These so far resemble 
the former, that there is a good deal of slope, and rapid passing off of water. 
Marshes, however, are more common, and may exist at great heights. In that 
case, the marsh is probably fed with water from some of the large cavities, 
which, in the course of ages, become hollowed out in the limestone rocks by 
the carbonic acid of the rain, and form reservoirs of water. 

The drinking water is hard, sparkling, and clear. Goitre is more common, 
and, it is said, renal calculus. Of the various kinds of limestone, the hard 
oolite is the best, and magnesian is the worst ; and it is desirable not to put 
stations on magnesian limestone if it can be avoided. 

4. The Chalk. The chalk, when unmixed with clay and permeable, forms 
a very healthy soil. The air is pure, and the water, though charged with 
carbonate of lime, is clear, sparkling, and pleasant. Goitre is not nearly so 
common, nor apparently calculus, as in the limestone districts. 

If the chalk be marly, it becomes impermeable, and is then often damp 
and cold. The lower parts of the chalk, which are underlaid by gault clay, 
and which also receive the drainage of the parts above, are often very 
malarious ; and in America, some of the most marshy districts are on the 
chalk. In this country, such impermeable chalk is almost entirely along the 
low lines of drainage. 

5. The Sandstones. The permeable sandstones are very healthy ; both soil 
and air are dry ; the drinking water is, however, sometimes impure. If the 
sand be mixed with much clay, or if clay underlies a shallow sand-rock, the 
site is sometimes damp. In choosing such a site, the water should be always 
carefully examined. 

The hard millstone grit formations are very healthy, and their conditions 
resemble those of granite. 

6. Gravels of any depth are always healthy, except when they are much 
below the general surface, and water rises through them. Gravel hillocks are 
the healthiest of all sites, and the water, which often flows out in springs near 
the base, being held up by underlying clay, is very pure. 

7. Sands. There are both healthy and unhealthy sands. The healthy are 
the pure sands, which contain no organic matter, and are of considerable 
depth. The air is pure, and so is often the drinking water. Sometimes the 
drinking water contains enough iron to become hard, and even chalybeate. 
The unhealthy sands are those which, like the subsoil of the Landes, in 
south-west France, are composed of siliceous particles (and some iron), held 
together by a vegetable sediment. It is nearly impermeable to water, but 
water dissolves gradually the vegetable matter, and acquires a brownish- 
yellow colour, and, if it comes from about 6 feet in depth, has a marshy 
odour. It is most unwholesome, and causes intermittents and visceral en- 
gorgements.* Chemical and microscopic analysis will detect this condition. 

In other cases sand is unhealthy, from underlying clay or laterite near the 
surface, or from being so placed that water rises through its permeable soil 
from higher levels. Water may then be found within 3 or 4 feet of the 
surface ; and in this case the sand is unhealthy, and often malarious. Im- 

* Eaux Publiques, par De Caxix, p. 155. ,- 



SOILS. 275 

purities are retained in it, and effluvia traverse it. Merely digging for water 
in the wet season will cause the discovery of these conditions. 

In a third class of cases, the sands are unhealthy because they contain 
soluble mineral matter. Many sands (as, for example, in the Punjab) con- 
tain much carbonate of magnesia and lime salts, as well as salts of the 
alkalies. The drinking water may thus contain large quantities of chloride 
of sodium, carbonate of soda, and even lime and magnesian salts and iron. 
Without examination of the water, it is impossible to detect these points. 

8. Clay, Dense Marls, and Alluvial Soils generally. These are always to 
be regarded with suspicion. Water neither runs off nor runs through ; the 
air is moist ; marshes are common ; the composition of the water varies, but 
it is often impure with lime and soda salts. In alluvial soils there are often 
alternations of thin strata of sand, and sandy impermeable clay; much 
vegetable matter is often mixed with this, and air and water are both impure. 
Vast tracts of ground in Bengal and in the other parts of India, along the 
course of the great rivers (the Ganges, Brahmapootra, Indus, Nerbudda, 
Krishna, &c.), are made up of soils of this description, and some of the most im- 
portant stations even up country, such as Cawnpore, are placed on such sites. 
If such spots must be chosen, thorough subsoil draining, careful purification of 
water, and elevation of the houses far above the soil, are the measures which 
must be adopted. It has been considered (Forbes Watson) that nearly one- 
third of the whole surface of India is covered by alluvial soil. 

The Deltas of great rivers present these alluvial characters in the highest 
degree, and should not be chosen for sites. If they must be taken, only the 
most thorough drainage can make them healthy. It is astonishing, however, 
what good can be effected by the drainage of even a small area, quite insuffi- 
cient to affect the general atmosphere of the place ; this shows that it is the 
local dampness and the effluvia which are the most hurtful. 

9. Cultivated Soils. Well-cultivated soils are often healthy, nor at pre- 
sent is it known that the use of manure in any form has been hurtful. 
Irrigated lands, and especially rice fields, which not only give a great surface 
for evaporation, but also send up organic matter into the air, are hurtful. 
In Northern Italy, where there is a very perfect system of irrigation, the rice 
grounds are ordered to be kept 14 kilometres ( = 8'7 miles) from the chief 
cities ; 9 kilometres ( = 5-6 miles) from the lesser cities and the forts ; and 1 
kilometre ( = 1094 yards) from the small towns. In the rice countries of 
India this point should not be overlooked. 



SECTION III. 
EXAMINATION OF SOIL. 

Mechanical Condition of Soil. The degree of density, friability, and pene- 
tration by water, should be determined both in the surface and subsoil. Deep 
holes, 6 to 12 feet, should be dug, and water poured on portions of the soil. 
Holes should be dug after rain, and the depth to which the rain has pene- 
trated observed. In this way the amount of dryness, the water level, and 
the permeability, can be easily ascertained. 

The surface or subsoil can also be mechanically analysed by taking a 
weighed quantity (1000 grains), drying it, and then picking out all the large 
stones and weighing them, passing through a sieve the fine particles, and 
finally separating the finest particles from the coarser by mixing with water, 
allowing the denser particles to subside, and pouring off the finer suspended 
particles. The weight of the large stones, plus the weight of the stones in 



276 SOILS. 

the sieve and of the dried coarser particles deducted from the total weight, 
gives the amount of the finely divided substance, which is probably silicate 
of alumina. 

Temperature. The temperature at a depth of 2 or 3 feet, at 2 to 4 o'clock 
in the afternoon, would be an important point to determine in the tropics, 
and also the temperature in early morning. At present such observations, 
though very easily taken, and obviously very instructive, are seldom, if ever, 
made. It might be also useful to take a certain depth of soil, say 6 inches, 
and placing a thermometer in it, determine the height of the thermometer on 
exposure to the sun's rays for a given time at a certain hour. 

Chemical Examination. The chemical constituents of soil are, of course, as 
numerous as the elements; more than 500 minerals have been actually named. 
But certain substances are very rare, and, for the physician, the chief consti- 
tuents of soils are the following substances or combinations. Silica, alumina, 
lime, iron, magnesia, chlorine, carbonic acid, phosphoric acid, nitric acid. A 
few simple tests are often very useful, if we are uncertain what kind of rock 
we have to deal with. Few persons could mistake granite, trap, gneiss, or 
rocks of that class ; or clay-slate or crystalline limestone. But fine white 
sandstones, or freestone, or even fine millstone grit, might be confounded with 
lirne rocks, or magnesian limestone. A few drops of hydrochloric acid will 
often settle the question, as it causes effervescence in the carbonates of lime 
and magnesian rocks.* 

* It may be useful to give (from Page's "Handbook of Geological Terms") a few composi- 
tions, and to define a few of the common mineralogical words used in geology. 

Quartz. Crystallised silica. 

Felspar. Silica, alumina (trisilicate of alumina), potash or soda, and a little lime, magnesia, 
and peroxide of iron, crystallised or amorphous. 

Mica. Silica, alumina, peroxide of iron and potash, or magnesia, or lime, or lithia. 

Chlorite. Mica, but with less silica and more magnesia and iron. 

Granite. Composed of quartz, felspar, and mica. 

Syenite. Hornblende instead of mica. 

Syenitic granite. Quartz, felspar, mica, and hornblende. 

Gneiss. Same elements as granite, but the crystals of quartz and felspar are broken and 
indistinct. 

Hornblende. A. mineral entering largely into granitic and trappean rocks, composed of silica 
(46 to 60), magnesia (14 to 28), lime (7 to 14), with a little alumina, fluorine, and pro- 
toxide of iron. 

Augite. Like hornblende, only less silica (does not resist acids). 

Hypersthene. Like augite, only with very little lime ; it contains silica, magnesia, and iron ; 
resists acids. 

Greenstone. Hard granular crystalline varieties of trap, felspar, and hornblende, or felspar 
and augite. 

Basalt. Augite and felspar, olivine, iron, pyrites, &c. 

Trap. Tabular greenstone and basalt. 

Schist. A term applied to the rocks mentioned above, when they are foliated or split up into 
irregular plates. 

Clay-slate. Argillaceous arenaceous rocks, with more or less marked cleavage. 

Limestone. All varieties of hard rocks, consisting chiefly of carbonate of lime. 

Oolite. Limestone made up of small rounded grains, compact or crystalline, like the roe of a fish . 

Chalk. Soft carbonate of lime. 

Magnesian limestone. Any limestone containing 20 per cent, of a salt of magnesia, fre- 
quently not crystallised. 

Dolomite. Crystallised magnesian limestone. 

Kunkur. A term used in India, to denote nodular masses of impure carbonate of lime. 

Gypsum Selenite. Sulphate of lime. 

Gravel. Water- worn and rounded fragments of any rock, chiefly quartz ; size, from a pea to 
a hen's egg. 

Sand. Same, only particles less than a pea. 

Sandstone. Consolidated sand; the particles held together often by lime, clay, and oxide of 
iron. 

Freestone. Any rock which can be cut readily by the builder ; usually applied to sandstone. 

Millstone grit.- -Hard gritty sandstone of the carboniferous series, used for millstones. Grit 
is the term generally used when the particles are larger and sharper than in ordinary 
sandstone. 



SOILS. 277 

A more complete examination should include the following points : 

1. Percentage of Water. Take 100 grains of a fair sample of soil, and dry 
at a heat of 220 ; weigh again ; the difference is water or volatile substance. 

2. Absorption of Water. Place the dried soil in a still atmosphere, on a 
plate in a thin layer, and reweigh in 24 hours ; the increase is the absorbed 
water. An equal portion of pure sand should be treated in the same way as 
a standard. It would be well to note the humidity of the air at the time. 

3. Power of holding Water. Thoroughly wet 1000 grains, drain off water 
as far as possible, and weigh ; the experiment is, however, not precise. 

4. Substances taken up by Water. This is important, as indicating whether 
drinking water is likely to become contaminated. Rub thoroughly 100 grains 
in pure cold water, filter and test for chlorine, sulphuric acid, lime, alumina, 
iron, nitric acid (see WATER, page 22, for the several tests). 

5. Substances taken up by Hydrochloric Acid. "While water takes up the 
chlorides and the sulphates of the alkalies, nitrates, &c., the greater part of 
the lime, magnesia, and alumina, are left undissolved. This quantity can be 
best determined by solution in pure hydrochloric acid. 

(.) To 400 grains of the soil add 1 ounce of pure hydrochloric acid, and 
heat; note effervescence. Add about 3 ounces of water. Digest for 12 
hours. Dry and weigh the undissolved portion. 

(b.) To the acid solution add ammonia. Alumina and oxide of iron are 
thrown down. Dry and weigh precipitate. 

(c.) To the filtered solution add oxalate of ammonia. Dry ; wash and burn 
the oxalate of lime. Weigh as carbonate (see page 33). 

(d.) To the solution filtered from (c) add phosphate of soda. Collect; 
dry and weigh (100 grains of the precipitate = 79 grains of carbonate of mag- 
nesia) ; or determine as pyrophosphate. (See WATER.) 

The portion insoluble in hydrochloric acid consists of quartz, clay, silicates 
of alumina, iron, lime, and magnesia. If it is wished to examine it further, 
it should be fused with three times its weight of carbonate of soda, then 
heated with dilute hydrochloric acid. The residue is silica. The solution 
may contain iron, lime," magnesia, and alumina. Test as above. 

6. Iron. Iron can be determined by the bichromate of potash, or by the 
permanganate. As the latter solution is used for other purposes, it is conve- 
nient to employ it in this case. 

Dissolve 100 grains of the soil in pure hydrochloric acid, free from iron, 
by heat. 

Add a little pure zinc and heat to convert peroxide into protoxide. Deter- 
mine iron by permanganate of potash ; i.e., heat to 140, and then drop in the 
solution of permanganate till a permanent but very slight red colour is given. 

Preparation of Permanganate of Potash Solution. 

The solution made for the determination of organic matter in water may be 
used, or the following may be substituted. 

Take 10 C.C. of standard solution of oxalic acid (63 grammes to 1 litre) 

Greensand. Lower portion of the chalk system in England ; sand coloured by chloritous 
silicate of iron. 

Clay. Silicate of alumina. 

Marl. Lime and clay. 

Laterite. A term much used in India to denote a more or less clayey stratum which underlies 
much of the sand in Bengal, some parts of Burmah, Bombay presidency, &c. 

Conglomerate. Rocks composed of consolidated gravels (i.e., the fragments water-worn and 
rounded). 

Breccia. Rocks composed of angular (not water-worn) fragments (volcanic breccia, osseous 
breccia, calcareous breccia. 

Shale. A. term applied to all clayey or sandy formations with lamination ; it is often consoli- 
dated and hardened mud. 



278 SOILS. 

and add 90 C.C. of water (-100 C.C. of decinormal acid). Add 6 C.C. of 
strong sulphuric acid, and heat to 140 Fahr. 

Drop into it solution of permanganate of potash. 

The number of C.C. of the permanganate used = 0*5 6 grammes of pure 
iron. Multiply by 15-43 to bring into grains. A simple calculation will 
then show to how many grains of iron 1 C.C. of the permanganate solution 
corresponds. 

1 gramme or grain of iron = 1-285 grammes or grains of protoxide. 
1 = 1'428 peroxide. 

1 = 2*071 carbonate, 

i . 4.964 (sulphate (FeO 

\ S0 3 +7H"0). 

Multiply the amount of metallic iron found by any of the above numbers, 
and the result is the amount of the particular salt the factor of which is used. 
The medical officer will seldom find it necessary to examine for any of the 
other constituents of soil. 

SECTION IV. 
GENERAL RULES FOR CHOICE OF SITE. 

If a site is to be chosen for a permanent station, see it at all times of the 
year and of the day ; in the wet as well as in dry season, and at night as well 
as by day. 

Height of Hills. Get the exact height of the hills from an engineer ; or 
failing this, determine it by the barometer. (See METEOROLOGY.) 

Geological Order, Direction, and Dip of Strata. Learn the position in the 
geological series, if possible, the direction of the dip of the strata, and the 
course of the fall of water. 

Mechanical and Chemical Composition. Get as much information as pos- 
sible in the way already pointed out ; even a superficial examination is much 
better than nothing. 

Analysis of Water. Analyse the water, and determine its quantity. 

Subterranean course of Water. Always choose a spot from which there is 
drainage, and into which there is no drainage. 

Temperature, Dew-point, and Winds. Take as many temperature observa- 
tions as possible, and dew-point determinations, and learn the direction of the 
winds, and, if possible, their force and temperature. Attend to all the rules 
already given on conformation, vegetation, and composition of soil, and dig 
holes of 10 to 16 feet in depth at various points. If possible, never take 
ground which has been much disturbed, and always avoid sites of old 
dwellings. 

Such a complete examination demands time and apparatus, but it is quite 
necessary. 

A fan* opinion can then be formed ; but if a large permanent station is to 
be erected, it is always desirable to recommend that a temporary station 
should be put up for a year, and an intelligent officer should be selected to 
observe the effect on health, to take meteorological observations, and to ex- 
amine the water at different times of the year. Sometimes a spot more eligible 
than that originally chosen may be found within a short distance, and the 
officer should be instructed to keep this point in view. 

The medical officer has nothing to do with military considerations or ques- 
tions of supply, but if he is able to suggest anything for the information of 
the authorities, he should of course do so. 



PREPAKATION OF SITE. 279 

The opinion of Lind, whose large experience probably surpassed that of his 
contemporaries, and of our own time, should be remembered.* 

In choosing a site for a temporary camp, so elaborate an examination is not 
possible. But as far as possible the same rules should be attended to. There 
is, however, one difference in a permanent station water can be brought 
from some distance ; in a temporary station the water supply must be near at 
hand, and something must be given up for this. The banks of rivers, if not 
marshy, may be chosen, care being taken to assign proper spots for watering, 
washing, &c., as laid down in the chapter on WATER. A river with marshy 
banks must never be chosen in any climate, except for the most imperative 
military reasons ; it is better to have the extra labour of carrying water from 
a distance. 

A site under trees is good in hot countries, but brushwood must be avoided. 

SECTION V. 
PREPARATION OF SITE. 

In any locality intended to be permanently used, the ground should be 
drained with pipe drains. Even in the driest of the loose soils this is desir- 
able, especially in hot climates, where the rain-fall is heavy. In impermeable 
rocky districts it is less necessary. The size, depth, and distance of the drains 
will be for the engineer to determine ; but generally deep drains (4 to 8 feet 
in depth, and 12 to 18 feet apart) are the best. If there is no good fall, it 
has been proposed to drain into deep pits ; but usually a good engineer will 
get a fall without such an expedient. A good outfall, however, should be a 
point always looked to in choosing a station. These drains are intended to 
carry off subsoil water, and not surface and drain water. This latter should 
be provided for by shallow surface drains along the natural outfalls and valleys. 
As far as drainage is 'concerned, we have then to provide for mere surface 
water, and for the water which passes below the surface into the soil and sub- 
soil.. 

Brushwood should be cleared away, but trees left until time is given for 
consideration. In clearing away brushwood, the ground in the tropics should 
be disturbed as little as possible ; and if it can be done, all cleared spots 
should be soon sown with grass. 

In erecting the buildings, the ground should be excavated as little as pos- 
sible ; in the tropics, especially, hills should never be cut away. The surface 
should be levelled, holes filled in, and those portions of the surface on which 
rain can fall from buildings well paved, with good side gutters. This is espe- 
cially necessary in the tropics, where it is of importance to prevent the ground 
under buildings from becoming damp ; but the same principles apply every- 
where. 

In a temporary camp so much cannot be done ; but even here it is desirable 
to trench and drain as much as possible. It not unfrequently happens in 
Avar that a camp intended to stand for two or three days is kept up for two or 
three weeks, or even months. As soon as it is clear that the occupation is to 
be at all prolonged, the same plans should be adopted as in permanent sta- 
tions. The great point is to carry off water rapidly, and it is astonishing 
what a few well-planned surface drains will do. 

* " The most healthy countries in the world contain spots of ground where strangers are sub- 
ject to sickness. There is hardly to be found any large extent of continent, or even any island, 
that does not contain some places where Europeans may enjoy an uninterrupted state of health 
during all seasons of the year."- Lind, Diseases nf Europeans in Hot Climates, 4th edition, 
p. 200. 



CHAPTER IX. 
HABITATIONS. 



WHOEVER considers carefully the record of the mediaeval epidemics, and seeks 
to interpret them by our present knowledge of the causes of disease, will, I 
believe, become convinced that one great reason why those epidemics were so 
frequent and so fatal was the compression of the population in faulty habita- 
tions. Ill-contrived and closely packed houses, with narrow streets, often 
made winding for the purpose of defence ; a very poor supply of water, and 
therefore a universal uncleanliness ; a want of all appliances for the removal 
of excreta ; a population of rude, careless, and gross habits, living often on 
innutritious food, and frequently exposed to famine from their imperfect sys- 
tem of tillage, such were the conditions which almost throughout the whole 
of Europe enabled diseases to attain a range, and to display a virulence, of 
which we have now scarcely a conception. The more these matters are 
examined, the more, I believe, shall we be convinced that we must look, not 
to grand cosmical conditions ; not to earthquakes, comets, or mysterious waves 
of an unseen and poisonous air ; not to recondite epidemic constitutions, but 
to simple, familiar, and household conditions, to explain the spread and fatality 
of the mediaeval plagues. 

The diseases arising from faulty habitations are in great measure, perhaps 
entirely, the diseases of impure air. The site may be in fault ; and from a 
moist and malarious soil excess of water and organic emanations may pass 
into the house. Or ventilation may be imperfect, and the exhalations of a 
crowded population may accumulate and putrefy ; or the excretions may be 
allowed to remain in or near the house ; or a general uncleanliness, from want 
of water, may cause a persistent contamination of the air. And, on the con- 
trary, these five conditions insure healthy habitations : 

1. A site dry and not malarious, and an aspect which gives light and 

cheerfulness. 

2. A ventilation which carries off all respiratory impurities. 

3. A system of immediate and perfect sewage removal, which shall render 

it impossible that the air shall be contaminated from excreta. 

4. A due supply and proper removal of water ; by means of which per- 

fect cleanliness of all parts of the house can be insured. 

5. A construction of the house which shall insure perfect dryness of the 

foundation, walls, and roof. 

In other words, perfect purity and cleanliness of the air are the objects to 
be attained. This is the fundamental and paramount condition of healthy 
habitations ; and it must over-ride all other considerations. After it has 
been attained, the architect must engraft on it the other conditions of comfort, 
convenience, and beauty. 



BARRACKS. 



281 



The military habitations which have to be considered are barracks and 
their adjuncts, and hospitals. 

In the chapter on Field Service temporary war buildings will be con- 
sidered. 

SECTION I. 
BARRACKS. 

Barracks have been in our army, and in many armies of Europe still are, a 
fertile source of illness and loss of service. At all times the greatest care is 
necessary to counteract the injurious effects of compressing a number of per- 
sons into a restricted space. In the case of soldiers, the compression has been 
extreme ; but the counteracting care has been wanting. It is not more than 
forty years since, in the West Indies, the men slept in hammocks touching 
each other, only twenty-three inches of lateral space being allowed for each 
man. At the same time, in England, the men slept in beds with two tiers, 
like the berths in a ship ; and not infrequently, each bed held four men. 
When it is added, that neither in the West Indies, nor in the home service, 
was such a thing as an opening for ventilation ever thought of, the state of 
the air can be imagined. 

The means of removal of excreta were, even in our own days, of the rudest 
description, both at home and in many colonies ; and from this cause alone 
there is no doubt that the great military nations have suffered a loss of men, 
which, if expressed in money, would have been sufficient to rebuild and purify 
every barrack they possess.* 

* It is a most remarkable circumstance, that the two diseases which, in the French, Prussian, 
Hanoverian, and Belgian armies, and probably in the Austrian, and, till lately, in our own 
army, caused the largest share of the mortality, were a destructive lung disease, termed phthisis 
in the returns, and typhoid fever. 

At the risk of a little repetition, I introduce here a table which belongs to another chapter : 





Out of 100 deaths from all causes, 






there occur from 


Total deaths 


Armies. 




out of 100 




Phthisis. 


Typhoid Fever. 




Austrian, 


25 


*(?) 




Prussian, 
French, 


22-9 


36 
26 


48-9 


Belgium, 


30 


16-6 


46-6 


England, Home Service (m an ) 
of 1859, 1860, 1861), ( 
Hanoverian, 


33-81 
39-4 


5-64J 
23-68 


39-45 
63-08 



The production of disorganising lung-disease (though perhaps occurring in several ways), is 
intimately connected with the constant breathing of an atmosphere vitiated by respiration ; and 
typhoid fever is as closely related with bad drainage. Both diseases are therefore diseases of 
habitations, and show, in the case of the soldier (who is not subjected to other causes of phthisis, 
such as inaction, constrained position, and inhalation of dust, &c. ), that the air of his dwelling 
is foul. But I need not say, the vitiated air of dwellings has a far wider influence even than 
this, which is elsewhere referred to. 

In hot climates the same rule holds good. Is it not a remarkable fact, that in the "West 
Indies, those islands of paradise, where no cold inclement wind ever vexes the tender lungs, 
there was, twenty or thirty years ago, an extraordinary mortality from consumption, and from 

* The precise amount of typhoid fever is uncertain, but is known to be very large. 

t The amount of phthisis is greater ; but as the men are sent home, and struck off the roll in a certain 
time, it is difficult to state it in figures. 

J In the English returns, I have put together typhoid, typhus, and Febris continua, as they are not always 
distinguished ; and it is safer at present to do so. The number, therefore, is higher than it would be with 
typhoid alone ; but even this number contrasts very favourably with the mortality of other armies, and 
shows how well the sanitary regulations are working. 



282 HABITATIONS. 



SUB-SECTION I. BARRACKS ON HOME SERVICE. 

The imperfection of the English barracks was owing to two causes first, a 
great disregard or ignorance of the laws of health ; and, secondly, an indispo- 
sition on the part of Parliament to vote sums of money for a standing army. 
At the close of the last, and at the commencement of the present century, 
the Whig party especially opposed every grant which Mr Pitt brought for- 
ward for this purpose.* After the great war, the exhaustion of the nation 
prevented anything being done, and in spite of the representations of many 
military men, comparatively little change occurred till the Crimean War. In 
1855 a committee, t of which Lord Monck was chairman, was appointed by the 
War Office to consider this subject, and presented a most excellent Eeport on 
Barracks, the suggestions of which have been since gradually carried out. 
Immediately after this a Barrack Improvement Commission^ was organised, 
and in 1861 this Commission published a Blue- Book, which not only con- 
tained plans and descriptions of the existing barracks and hospitals, but laid 
down rules for their construction, ventilation, and sewerage, for future guid- 
ance. It is difficult to speak too strongly of the excellence of this Report, and 
if its rules are attended to, there can be no doubt the British army will, as far 
as habitations are concerned, be lodged in healthier dwellings than almost any 
class of the community. I must refer to this Eeport for a fuller account of 
the older barracks and hospitals than can be given here. 

Regulations on Barracks. 

The Hospital Regulations. The Director-General is to be consulted on the 
plans and site of any new barrack (p. 79). 

The Inspector or Deputy-Inspector-General is ordered to see that all regula- 
tions for protecting health in barracks are carried out. He makes a monthly 
inspection, examining into ventilation, warming, lighting, latrines, closets, and 
all other points. (Med. Reg., p. 28, et seq.) 

The regimental medical officer performs the same duties (p. 78, et seq.) He 

a continued fever, which in all probability was typhoid ? Yet who can wonder, when we find, 
in the Windward and Leeward command, the very best barrack, in 1827, gave only this amount 
of accommodation : the men slept in hammocks touching each other ; the average space allowed 
to each man measured only 23 inches in breadth ; and the total cubic space per head, in this 
the best barrack in a tropical climate, was only 250 cubic feet. The air was, of course, putrid 
in the highest degree. 

So also in India, the best writer on the means of preserving the health of troops in India 
(Dr Chevers), does not hesitate to assert that faulty barracks are, though not the only, yet a 
great cause of a mortality, which, in a term of years, has been at least fourfold more than at 
home. Phthisis and typhoid fever hold a subordinate place (though it is not unlikely that 
their frequency is underrated) ; but other diseases appear, which are in part connected with 
faulty barrack arrangements, dysentery, and cholera. 

In India, as in England, no expense has of late years been spared ; but yet the fact remains, 
that the very habitations erected for their shelter and comfort have proved to the soldiers a 
source of suffering and death. 

' * On looking through the Annual Register, I find that Fox, as well as his followers, spoke 
strongly against the grant of sums of money for improving barracks. Their motives were 
good, and their jealousy of a standing army justified by what had gone before, but the result 
has been most unfortunate for the soldier. 

i 1 Report of the Official Committee on Barrack Accommodation for the Army ; Blue-Book, 
1855. 

JMr Sidney Herbert, Drs Sutherland and Burrell, and Captain Galton, were the first Barrack 
Hospital Improvement Commissioners. Lord Herbert did not sign the first Report, as he 
became Minister of War. Dr Burrell retired. The remaining Commissioners (Dr Sutherland 
and Captain Galton) subsequently published the Report on the Mediterranean Barracks, and, 
with others hereafter noted, are now occupied with the Indian barracks. 

Ji General Report of the Commission appointed for improving the sanitary condition of Bar- 
racks and Hospitals. 1861. 



BARKACKS. 283 

is also especially ordered to see that every soldier has a separate bed ;* that 
the beds are not placed at a less distance than 6 inches from the wall ; that 
the beds are aired every morning for at least an hour ; that the windows are 
opened in the morning as soon as possible, and kept open as far as weather 
and season will permit. The walls and ceilings are ordered to be limewashed 
twice a-year (p. 80). In the barrack regulations (Reg. 186) it is ordered that 
painting, colouring, scraping, and washing shall be done every nine years or 
oftener, on the requisition of the commanding officer. But, as pointed out 
by the Barrack Improvement Commission, these rules are quite insufficient. 

Each man is allowed 600 cubic feet of space, and the number of men 
located in each barrack room is to be painted on the door. This is a most 
important rule, which should be strictly enforced ; if it is not so, it is to be 
stated in the Annual Report. No regulation is made as to superficial space, 
and it will vary with the height of the barrack room ; from 56 to 60 square 
feet is the average. 

The Queen's Regulations for the Army (p. 246, et seq., pocket edition) 
order the officer of the day to see to the ventilation and cleanliness of barracks. 

Barracks are ordered to be washed once a-week, and no more water is to be 
used than necessary. On intermediate days the rooms are dry-scrubbed. 

Construction of Barracks. 

A dry and non-malarious site being chosen, and the subsoil drained, the 
plan of sewerage must be fixed. If, as usual in this country, water is used 
to carry off the sewage, the medical officer should bestow great pains in con- 
sidering the plan of tha sewers and their ventilation. (See SEWAGE.) 

In building the several parts, it is most important to insure perfect dryness 
of the walls by using courses of slate, vitrified bricks, or asphalte, to prevent 
water from rising, and to see that the basement rooms are thoroughly venti- 
lated. With regard to the materials for building, the least absorbent sub- 
stances, whether stone or brick, are to be preferred ; the amount of absorption 
may be tested by placing the brick or piece of stone of known weight and 
surface into a measured quantity of water, and measuring the water not ab- 
sorbed in three hours, t 

The arrangement of the several buildings must be then considered, and a 
distinction must be made between infantry and cavalry barracks, on account 
of the stables in the latter case. 

Infantry Barracks. 

Block Plan. Formerly a number of men, even a whole regiment, were 
aggregated in one large house, and this was often built in the form of a square, 
the quarters for the officers forming one side, on account of the ease of sur- 
veillance. Many officers still prefer this form. But it is always objectionable 
to have an enclosed mass of air, and if it is adopted the angles should be left 
open, as recommended by Robert Jackson. The Barrack Improvement Com- 
missioners have very justly recommended that there shall be such division of 

* Formerly two, and even three, men slept together. I have been told, that as late as 1842, 
one of the old beds, with two tiers, was to be seen at the Guards' barracks in Portman Street, 
London, though it had, of course, been long disused. 

f Bricks imperfectly burned on the outside of the kiln are termed Place, or Samel, or Sandel 
bricks. They absorb much water. The sun-dried bricks of India are very damp, and absorb 
water from the air. I am not aware of the absorbing power of the bricks made by compression 
without burning. Many sandstones are very porous ; water beats into them and rises high by 
capillary attraction. Lime made from chalk absorbs water. Pise is compressed earth, and, 
unless covered with cement, is moist. 



284 HABITATIONS. 

the men among numerous detached buildings ; and instead of the square, that 
the separate buildings shall be arranged in lines, each building being so placed 
as to impede as little as possible the movement of air on the buildings, and 
the accession of the sun's rays. As the plan of assembling the men in camps 
at a distance from towns, where land is less valuable, is now the system, no 
difficulty is found in spreading the men over a large area, nor has discipline 
suffered in any way. 

In arranging the lines, the axis of the buildings should be if possible north 
and south, so as to allow the sun's rays to fall on both sides. One building 
should in no case obstruct air and light from another, and each building must 
be at a sufficient distance from the adjoining house, and this distance should 
not be less than its own height, and if possible more. 

Parts of a Barrack. 1. The barrack room, with non-commissioned officers' 
rooms screened off. 2. Quarters of the married privates six to each com- 
pany. 3. Quarters of the staff-serjeants and Serjeants' mess. 4. Quarters of 
the officers. 5. Kitchens. 6. Ablution rooms. 7. Latrines and urinals. 
8. Orderly-room; guard-room. 9. Cells. 10. Tailors' shop and armoury j 
commissariat stores ; canteen. 11. Beading-room (in many barracks) ; schools; 
magazine. 

It is unnecessary to describe all these buildings. 

The old barracks are of all conceivable forms and kinds of construction, for 
details of which I refer to the Commissioners' Report. 

In many of the old barrack rooms the following defects are found : the 
rooms have windows on one side only, and there are no means of cross venti- 
lation, or the rooms are very long, with the windows at the ends, and the 
beds arranged along the dead wall, so that thorough ventilation is impossible, 
or the vitiated air from one end must pass over all the other beds to escape at 
the other ; or the rooms open on either side of a central corridor, so that good 
ventilation is not only difficult, but the air of one room must almost inevit- 
ably pass into another. 

The chief plans of the grouping of rooms in the older barracks are the 
corridor, with rooms on one side ; the corridor, with rooms on the two sides ; 
and transverse passages with rooms opening on each side the rooms being 
each divided into two by a longitudinal partition. The first arrangement is 
the best, but the closed corridor is objectionable. If it be used, there should 
be windows as well as doors opening from the rooms into it, and free corre- 
sponding windows in the corridor itself. The corridor should, as well as the 
rooms, be ventilated with shafts ; and it should be a rule, whenever corridors 
or inside staircases exist, to ventilate them separately from the rooms. 

Many of the old barracks are also very deficient in proper arrangements for 
the removal of refuse. Ashpits, dung-heaps, &c., are placed too near the 
buildings, and the air entering the rooms passes over them. All such defects 
as these are now remedied. 

When new barracks are built, the plans of the Commission will be 
followed. 

(a.) Barrack Rooms. The size and shape of the barrack room will decide the 
kind of buildings. The Barrack Committee of 1855 recommended that each 
room should accommodate twelve men, or one squad, as this is most com- 
fortable for the men ; but small rooms of this size are more difficult to arrange, 
and it is now considered best to put twenty-four, or one section, in each room. 

The Barrack Improvement Commissioners' recommendations may be con- 
densed as follows : 

The rooms are directed to be narrow, with only two rows of beds, and with 
opposite windows one window to every two beds. As each man is allowed 



BARRACKS. 



285 



Tic 



600 cubic feet of space, and as it is strongly recommended that no room shall 

be lower than 12 feet, the size of a room for 24 men will be length 60 feet, 

breadth 20 feet, height 12 feet. This size of 

room will give 14,400 cubic feet, or (600 x 24) 

enough for 24 men ; but as the men's bodies and 

furniture take up space, an additional 2 feet has 

been allowed to the length in some of the new 

barracks. Assuming the length to be 62 feet, 

the superficial area for each man will be nearly 

52 feet, a little more than 5 feet in the length 

and 10 in the width of the room. At one end 

of the room is the door, and a room for the ser- 

jeant of the section, which is about 14 feet long, 

10 wide, and 12 high. At the other room is a 

narrow passage leading to an ablution room, one 

basin being provided for 4 men, and a urinal. 

Such is the present arrangement of a single 
barrack room, and it is difficult to conceive a 
better plan, unless it might be suggested that 
an open verandah, never to be made into a cor- 
ridor, should be placed on the south or west 
side. It would be a lounging-place for the men. 
So also a cleaning room for arms and accoutre- 
ments would be a very useful addition. 

The room thus formed may constitute a single 
hut, but if space is a consideration, two such 
rooms are directed to be placed in a line, the 
lavatories being at the free ends. A house of 
this kind will accommodate half a company. 
The several houses are separated by an interval 
of not less than 25 feet. For the sake of 
economy, however, the houses will in future be 
frequently made two-storied, so that one house 
will contain a company in four rooms, and ten 
will suffice for a regiment. 

The three following plans of recently erected 
barracks show the arrangements which are 
adopted. 1st, "When there is a single story, 
as at Colchester, and no staircase is required. 

2d, When there are two stories, and a stair- 
case must be introduced, as in the new cavalry 
barracks at York. 

3d, When there are not only staircases, but 
the barracks must be extended in one long line, 
including many rooms, and when, therefore, the 
ablution rooms cannot be put at the ends of the 
rooms, but must be placed on the landings, as at 
Chelsea. 

If 10 houses are thus formed, and arranged so 
as to insure for each the greatest amount of 
light and air, the following area will be occupied Fig. 77. Colchester Camp Houses, 
by these houses alone. Each house (with walls) 

would measure about 140 feet long and 22 broad, and the space between the 
houses mav be taken at 64 feet, or twice the height of the house. The 



286 



HABITATIONS. 



external houses would, of course, have clear spaces on both sides like the 
others. The area of the occupied and unoccupied space would be very nearly 
12 square yards to a man. 






Fig 78. New Cavalry Barracks at York. 



Fig 79. New Chelsea Barracks. 



But this amount of compression, which would be injurious in a large city, 
will do no harm in these well-planned and ventilated barracks. 



BARRACKS. 287 

(b.) Day-rooms. The soldier lives and sleeps in his barrack room ; it has 
long been a desideratum to introduce day-rooms,* but, at present, the expense 
is too heavy. Still it is very important that the men should take their meals 
elsewhere than in their barrack room, and in some barracks a room is pro- 
vided close to the kitchen. The addition of a few verandahs to the rooms 
would be less expensive, and if reading-rooms were provided, some of the 
purposes of day-rooms would be obtained. 

(c.) Non-Commissioned Officers' Rooms. The Serjeant-major and Quarter- 
master-serjeant are entitled to two rooms and a kitchen ; the Paymaster-ser- 
jeant, Hospital-serjeant, Schoolmaster-serjeant, and some others, are entitled to 
two rooms. The company Serjeants have one room each. The rooms are 
about 14 feet by 12, and 10 high, and contain about 1168 cubic feet when 
empty. The amount of space is small, and as many of these non-commis- 
sioned officers are married, and as it is a matter of justice no less than of 
policy to make them as comfortable as possible, it is to be hoped that two 
rooms may be allowed to every married man, and three in the case of all the 
senior non-commissioned officers. The non-commissioned officers should be 
looked on in the light of the overlookers of a factory they are even more 
essential to the good working of the army than the overlookers are in a mill ; 
but no married overlookers would ever conceive the possibility of living in two 
rooms, in one of which cooking must be done. 

(d.) Married Soldiers' Quarters. Six privates in a company of 100 men 
are allowed to be married. Formerly they were placed in the men's barracks, 
a space being screened off, but now they are entitled to separate quarters, 
each family receiving one room 14 feet by 12, or 168 superficial and 1680 
cubic space. Sixty such rooms are or are to be provided for a regiment. 

There is no doubt that this allowance of space will be increased in accord- 
ance with the general feeling of the time, which is strongly against the mix- 
ing up adults and children of all ages in the same room. The amount of 
space also is really much too small. Certainly two such rooms ought to be 
given to each married private. 

Warming of Barrack Rooms. The rooms are warmed in two ways radi- 
ant heat from an open fire, and warm air, which is obtained from an air-cham- 
ber behind, and heated by the fire. The external air is led by a pipe to this 
chamber, and then ascending, enters the room by a louvre. The grates are of 
various sizes, according to the size of the room. Smallest 1 foot 3 inches of 
fire opening for rooms of 3600 cubic feet. Middle 1 foot 5 inches for 
rooms between 3600 and 9800 cubic feet. Largest 1 foot 9 inches up to 
12,000 cubic feet. Large rooms have two grates. One grate is usually pro- 
vided for twelve men. 

The radiating power of the small barrack grate is aided by a well-arranged 
angle, and by a fireclay back ; as the fire is small, however, the radiating 
power is not great. The amount and temperature of the air entering in by 
the warm-air louvre has not yet been determined. 

In the wards at Fort Pitt, with the largest size of grates, the mean rapidity 
of movement of warm air through the upper slits of the louvre, with a good 
fire, was found to be about 2| feet per second, and the total cubic amount of 
warm air entering per hour through the whole louvre was (approximately) 
4600 cubic feet per hour, with a mean temperature of 19 in excess of the 
external air-temperature. No unusual dryness of the air is produced by the 

* See Report of Committee (1855), p. iv. The objections to day-rooms are : 1st, More labour 
to keep clean ; 2d, Chance of men being debarred from their barrack room during day ; 3d, 
Chance of day-room being appropriated on emergencies. The Committee, therefore, recom- 
mend only dining-rooms for the men, to be arranged near the kitchen if possible. 



288 HABITATIONS. 

admission of this quantity of warm air, the relative humidity of the air being 
about 70. 

The fires in the barrack rooms are let out at night. During fifty-six days 
in the winter of 1862-3, the mean minimum night temperature in a barrack 
room at Chatham was 4 3 '6, while the mean minimum outside temperature 
on the same nights was 35'3, showing a difference of 8 0- 3 in favour of the 
barrack room, which (as the fire was out) was owing chiefly to the warm air 
entering through the louvre, and in a less degree (probably) to the warmth 
given off from the bodies of the men. When the weather was cold, and the 
outside temperature was lowest, the fire was kept up later, and the difference 
between the outside and inside air was greatest, amounting, on one occasion, 
to 19 (28 outside and 47 in the room). It would appear probable, then, that 
the grate is sufficient, with an extra supply of coal in very cold winter weather. 

The movement of air through the hot-air louvres is not regular ; open doors 
and windows, which increase the pressure of the air of the room on the louvre, 
will sometimes delay the movement, and, if the air-chamber is not very hot, 
will even reverse it and drive the ah* down ; but in cold weather, when the 
doors and windows are shut, the action is tolerably regular. 

The size of the tube leading to the air-chamber is given under the follow- 
ing heading. 

Ventilation of Barrack Rooms. This is now carried out on the principles 
laid down by the Barrack Commissioners. In addition to cross currents 
secured by the windows and by the Chimney, certain openings are provided. 
Every room is ventilated apart from other rooms. Lobbies and staircases, if 
they exist, are also separately ventilated. Both inlet and outlet openings are 
provided. 

Outlet Openings. The size is governed by the cubic space which regulates 
the number of persons in the room, and by the position of the room ; as the 
current is greater the higher the shaft, less area is required for the ground-floor 
of a three-storied house. As each man is allowed 600 cubic feet, his space of 
outlet will be as follows : 

1. On the ground-floor, 1 square inch for every 60 cubic feet of room space. 

-~x =10 square inches of section area per man. 

2. On the first-floor, 1 square inch for every 55 cubic feet of room space. 

600 

-p = 10 '9 square inches of section area per man. 

3. On the second-floor, 1 square inch for every 50 cubic feet. 

600 

-FT: =12 square inches per man. 

For a room of twelve men, the total size of the shaft is from 120 to 144 
square inches ; if there are more than twelve men, two shafts are generally 
provided. The outlet shafts are placed in the corners of the room, with an 
inverted louvre below to throw up down-draught. Above, there is a louvre 
to prevent down-draught. (See VENTILATION.) The outlets are made of 
wood, with a perfectly smooth internal surface. 

In addition to these outlets there is the chimney, which gives a section area 
to each man equal to about 6 square inches. The total outlet opening is there- 
fore from 16 to 18 square inches, according to circumstances. 

Inlets. The amount of inlet is directed to be 1 square inch for every 60 
cubic feet of room space =10 square inches for each man. Wherever possible, 
about half of the inlet air is to pass through a tube leading from the open 
air to an air-chamber behind the fire to be warmed (area of tube = 6 square 



BAKKACKS. 



289 




Fig. 80. 



inches per head), and the other half is to come direct from the outer air into 
the rooms through Sheringham valves. Area of outer opening = 5 square inches 
per head. 

In hospitals at home, as each man has 1200 cubic feet of space, the inlet 
and outlets would be nearly doubled. 

The cold air inlets (Sheringham valves) are placed at the sides near the 
ceiling, and are not to be opposite each other. 
Fig. 80 shows a usual arrangement. The 
outlet space is thus seen to be rather larger 
than the inlet, but as the doors and windows 
seldom fit close, it is probable that practically 
this is of little consequence. 

The movement of air through these open- 
ings is tolerably regular as regular as it ever 
can be in natural ventilation. The discharge 
of air through the chimney and outlet shaft 
averages about 1200 cubic feet per head per 
hour, with a range from 700 to 1500 or 1600, 
according to the amount of fire, the warmth 
of the room, and the movement of the ex- 
ternal air. The ventilation of barracks has 
been wonderfully improved by this plan. 

Ablution Rooms. Formerly the means for washing were of a very rude 
kind, but now in the new barracks regular basins with clean water and dis- 
charge/dirty water-pipes are provided close to every room, in the proportion 
of one basin to four men. The basins are of slate or iron. Wooden gratings 
are provided for the men to stand on, and one peg to hang clothes is provided 
for each basin. In several cases basins on the floor have been provided for 
feet-washing, and in some instances there are also baths for each regiment. 
The Barrack Improvement Commissioners recommend one bath to every 100 
men. It is understood to be the desire of the Government to provide plunge- 
baths wherever practicable, and this would not only aid cleanliness, but might 
be made the means of teaching the men swimming, as suggested by Mr 
M'Laren. 

If water is scarce, the most economical kind of bath is a shower-bath, so 
arranged as to permit 80 to 100 men to have a bath at once ; the expenditure 
of water is not above 6 to 8 gallons per head. 

Inspections for cleanliness are made in many regiments. They should be 
systematically carried on under the direction of good non-commissioned 
officers ; but if means are provided, soldiers will generally be cleanly. 

Kitchens. The Barrack Improvement Commissioners have paid great at- 
tention to the apparatus for cooking, and have described and figured various 
plans in their Eeport. The great object is to cook thoroughly with a small 
expenditure of coal.* The plans recommended by the Commissioners are 

For Large Bodies of Men. Triple boilers, the centre boiler being for hot 
water and steaming potatoes, the two sides being for cooking. The fire is 
single beneath the central boiler, and with good flues round all the boilers, 
which are set in good fire-brick lumps. The expenditure for 100 men per day 
is 3l Ib of coal, or 5 ounces per head. The oven is separate, and is heated by 
a single fire set in fire-brick, and with a fireclay tile separating it from the 
bottom of the oven ; the heat from the fire passes up one side, over the top, 
and then round under the bottom of the oven, between it and the fireclay 

* Count Rumford's standard of fuel was T Vth part the weight of the food. Barrack Report, 
p. 49. 

T 



290 HABITATIONS. 

tile. Holes are left in the fire-lumps which admit air to the flame as it leaves 
the fuel, so as to cause perfect consumption. The oven itself is 4 feet by 2 
feet 3 inches, and will roast or "bake for 500 men at a consumption of f ths of 
an ounce per man daily.* 

For Detachments of 50 to 100 Men. One side boiler is replaced by an 
oven ; the central boiler and potato steamer is retained. There is only a 
single fire. 

Captain Grant's cooking apparatus has been in use at Aldershot for some 
years. Two brick conduits, enclosing boilers, run towards a central chimney. 
The fires are lighted at the free ends of these conduits, and the smoke and 
heat passes around the boilers towards the chimney. The arrangement is 
simple and convenient, but not so economical as the plans already mentioned ; 
and the heat is unequally supplied to the boilers (Barrack Eeport, p. 50). 

Messrs Benham have also proposed ranges, some of which are very effective, 
and economical of fuel. One of these is in the Marine Hospital at Woolwich, 
and a model is in the Museum of the Army Medical School. The expendi- 
ture of coal for 500 men is 200 K) per diem. 

The plans recommended by the Commissioners will come gradually into use, 
and at present no better arrangements can be suggested. The opinion of the 
medical officer will therefore seldom be asked on the question of construc- 
tion, at any rate on home service. He may, however, be referred to on the 
question of consumption of fuel, and then he can take as the standard for an 
ordinary good apparatus J Ib of fuel per man per diem. 

More often, however, he will have to examine the cooking, to which refer- 
ence is made under the different sections in the chapter on FOOD. The chief 
points to which attention should be paid, are the temperature, the rapidity of 
its application, and the ventilation of roasting ovens. Faulty cooking will 
generally be found to be owing to one or other of these conditions. 

Formerly the regimental cooking establishment was badly arranged ; men 
cooked by turns, and for short periods only. Now, cooks are regularly trained 
at Aldershot. 

The other parts of a barrack are officers' quarters; laundry (in some 
cases) ; workshops for tailor, shoemaker, and armourer ; orderly-room ; guard- 
room ; cells ; reading-room (in some cases) ; chapel and school, which are often 
in one ; magazine ; barrack-masters' and quarter-masters' stores for regimental 
purposes, bread, and meat. 

It is not necessary to refer to all of these. 

Guard-room. The guard-room for a regiment of 1000 strong has a size of 
about 24 feet by 18 ; two rooms open into it one a lock-up for prisoners, the 
other a room where prisoners are placed who are not put in the lock-up. In 
many barracks, however, the lock-up is placed near the cells. The guard- 
room is ventilated like the other rooms, with Sheringham valves, shafts, &c. 
M'Kinnell's ventilator is well adapted for it. It should be fitted with a 
drying closet by the side of the fire, to dry the men's clothes when they come 
in wet off sentry. 

Cells. The cells are ranged on one or both sides of a corridor. They are 
10 feet long, 6J feet wide, and 9 high ( = 605 cubic feet), with one window, 
2 feet 6 inches wide by 1 foot 3 inches high, placed at the top of the wall, 
and guarded by iron bars. A moveable iron shutter is sometimes added for 
security, and to make the cell a dark one if needed. Fresh air is admitted 
through a grating opening from the corridor, which is warmed. The air enters 
below, or in some cases above ; but the former arrangement is the best. A 

* There is, of course, a great difference between the amount of fuel which is sufficient for 
cooking in skilful hands, and the amount which can be wasted by a bad cook. 



BARRACKS. 291 

foul-air shaft runs from the top of the room. Two cells are provided for every 
100 men. A medical officer inspects the cells every day. 

Latrines and Urinals. Formerly, urine tubs were brought into barrack- 
rooms every night ; and, indeed, this is still done in some barracks. The 
tubs are charred inside, are emptied every morning, and filled with water 
during the day. In all new barracks urinals are introduced ; the pattern is 
one devised by Captain Gal ton, K.E., and is similar to some railway urinals. 
It is only used at night, when water rises into it from a pipe below at a 
graduated rate, and dilutes the urine, which flows out continually by an 
overflow pipe. 

In the new barracks the urinal is placed at the end of the passage beyond 
the ablution room. It is found by the men that this is inconvenient ; the 
passage is often wet and cold. If the urinal is full of water it splashes ; it 
might be well to put the overflow-pipe a little lower down. In some barracks 
it is not understood that the water should be allowed to enter during the 
whole night, so as at once to dilute the urine, and to be continually -passing 
off by the overflow pipe. It has been recommended to put a small pipe and 
stopcock a few inches above the urinal, so that the men may cleanse them- 
selves, and in this way possibly lessen the chances of syphilitic infection. 

Cesspits are now discontinued in most barracks, and water latrines are used. 

The latrines are placed at some little distance from the rooms, and are 
usually connected with them by a covered way ; in almost all barracks they 
are Jenning's or Macfarlane's patents. These are metal or earthenware troughs, 
which are one-third full of water. Twice a-day a trap-door is lifted, the latrine 
is flushed, and the soil flows into a sewer or tank at a distance. A hydrant 
is now frequently placed close to the latrine ; an india-rubber pipe can be 
connected with it, and the seats and floor of the latrine are thoroughly 
washed in this way twice daily. Probably it would be difficult to suggest 
anything better than this, although soldiers can be taught to use water-closets 
like other people, and do not damage them. If water-closets are used, a plan 
suggested by Mr "Williams, C.E., clerk of the works at Gravesend, seems a 
very good one. It is to have the water-closets at the top of a two-storied 
building, to the central part of which they form a small third story. In. this 
way the following advantages are secured : vicinity to the men under the 
same roof, yet with perfect ventilation; impossibility of effluvia passing 
down ; proximity to the cistern ; and a good fall. At present, however, it 
seems better to keep to the water latrines outside the barracks. 

With regard to the disposal of the sewage, see chapter on SEWERAGE. 

Cavalry Barracks. 

In many cases the men's "rooms are placed over the stables, and there has 
been much discussion as to whether this arrangement is a good one. On the 
one hand the men get more room, as the horses cannot be crowded, and they 
are near their horses. On the other hand, there is strong evidence that the 
effluvia from the stables pass into the men's rooms overhead ;* and although 
I have been able to find no statistical proof that this has produced sickness 
among the men, we may safely a priori conclude that it is objectionable. The 
evidence of mews in London is not in point, as they are often close, ill-venti- 
lated courts, independent of the stables in them. Besides, this evidence is as 
yet rather contradictory. 

* See especially the evidence of Mr Wilkinson, Principal Veterinary Surgeon to the Army ; 
Report of Barrack Committee (1855), p. 136, question 2262 ; also, the Report on the Ventila- 
tion of Cavalry Stables (1863). 

2 T 



292 HABITATIONS. 

The question has, however, been solved by a late Report on the Ventilation 
of Cavalry Stables (1863),* by the Barrack Improvement Commissioners, who 
have shown that the ventilation and lighting of stables can only be satisfac- 
torily carried out in one-storied buildings, and who, therefore, recommend that 
the men's rooms shall not be placed over stables. 

Stables. The medical officer has no duties connected with stables, except 
to see that they are in no way injurious to the health of the men ; but it may 
be well to give the suggestions lately made by the Barrack Improvement Com- 
missioners. 

In all the old stables, if it is not already done, ventilating shafts are to be 
carried up, air-bricks introduced, and more window space to be given. 

Whenever stables are to be built in future, it is recommended that the 
building should be one-storied ; that the breadth should be 33 feet ; the 
height of the side walls to the spring, 12 ; and of the roof, 8|- feet more. 
The breadth of each stall is to be 5^ feet, and there are only two rows of 
horses in each stable. Each horse is to have 100 superficial feet, and 1605 
cubic feet ; the ventilation is by the roof, and is formed by a louvre 1 6 inches 
wide, carried from end to end, and giving 4 square feet of ventilating outlet 
for each horse. A course of air-bricks is carried round at the eaves, giving 1 
square foot of inlet to each horse ; an air-br ik is introduced about 6 inches 
from the ground in every two stalls. The^ is a swing window for every 
stall, and spaces are left below the doors. In this way, and by attention to 
surface drainage and roof lighting, it is anticipated that stables will become 
perfectly healthy. Some experiments have been lately made by Dr de Chau- 
mont on the air of some artillery stables at Hilsea. In one stable, with 32 
ventilators, and with 655 cubic feet per horse, theC0 2 was 1-053 volumes per 
1000 ; in another, with 1000 cubic feet per horse, and with 420 air bricks, 25 
windows, and a ridge opening, it was -593 volumes per 1000. Both these 
experiments show great purity of the air. 

Causes of Unhealthiness of Barracks. 

These are for the most part obvious enough, and the nature of the prevalent 
sickness (malarious disease, typhoid fever, lung affection, ophthalmia, &c.), will 
often give a clue to the detection of the cause. Site, building, air, and water, 
have all to be carefully examined, The chief causes are 

1. Defective Site, vk., giving rise to malaria or damp; or impregnated with 
excreta or old organic remains ; or the building is placed in a position which 
shelters it too much from the wind, or which, on the other hand, exposes it 
to too cold or unhealthy winds, &c. (see Choice of Site.) 

2. Bad Arrangement of Separate Buildings, if there are more than one, 
obstructing light ; impeding movement of air, &c. 

3. Bad Arrangement of the Parts of the Building. Impeding access of 
sunlight and air ; detaining air, or allowing the vitiated air from one part of 
the building to pass into another. 

4. I II- Arranged Basements, allowing damp to rise, or confining masses of 
damp and semi-stagnant and septic air, which gradually rise into the rooms 
above ; or which, from the existence of cesspools, accumulations of filth, ill- 
arranged sewers, allow contaminated .air to enter or collect. Dampness of 
basements and walls, from bad materials (porous stone or brick), or from want 
of impermeable courses to hinder damp from rising. 

5. Imperfect Administration and Conservancy viz., overcrowding; neglect 

* Report of Barrack and Hospital Improvement Commission, signed by Sir Richard Airey, 
Captain Galton, Dr Sutherland, Dr Logan, and Captain Belfield. 



BARRACKS. 293 

of proper means of ventilation ; want of cleanliness ; foul walls, floors, and 
bedding; short supply of water; bad water; retention of excreta in rooms or 
under the houses, and bad condition of sewage generally ; proximity of ashpits 
or refuse heaps to rooms, causing contamination to the air, &c. 

Reports on Barracks. 

The Regulations (p. 107) order the form in which reports on barracks shall 
be sent in. The arrangement should be strictly followed; it comprehends 
site, construction, external ventilation, internal ventilation, basements, and 
administration. It is then certain that no -point will be overlooked ; and, if 
nothing can be made out after going thoroughly through all the headings, it 
may be concluded that the cause of any prevailing sickness must be sought 
elsewhere. The site and basement should be especially looked at ; every 
cellar should be entered, and the drainage thoroughly investigated. Little 
can be learned by merely walking through a barrack-room, which is nearly 
sure to look clean, and may present nothing obviously wrong. With respect 
to ventilation, the statements of soldiers can seldom be trusted; they are 
accustomed to vitiated air, and do not perceive its odour. The proper time 
to examine the air of a room is about 12 to 3 A.M., and the medical officer 
should, accordingly, visit barrack rooms between midnight and 3 A.M. every 
now and then. The cisterns should be regularly inspected. 

The walls and floors of the rooms should be carefully looked to. Walls are 
porous, and often become impregnated with organic matter. If there is any 
suspicion of this, they should be scraped and then well washed with quick- 
lime. The medical officer should see that the lime is really caustic ; chalk 
and water does little good. Collections of dirt form under the floors some- 
times, and a board might be taken up to see if this is the case. 

SUB-SECTION II. BARRACKS IN FORTS AND CITADELS. 

In fortified places it is, of course, often impossible to follow the examples 
of good barracks just given. Citadels may have little ground space ; build- 
ings must be compressed, guarded from shot, made with thick and bomb- 
proof walls, with few openings. Buildings are sometimes underground. 
Drainage is often difficult or impossible ; and if to all these causes of con- 
tamination of air we add a deficiency of water, which is common enough, it 
will not surprise us that the sickness and mortality in forts, in even healthy 
localities, are greater than should be the case. Both at Malta and Gibraltar 
there has for years been too large a mortality from typhoid fever, and from 
the destructive lung disease, which appears in the returns as phthisis. 

How these difficulties are to be met is one of the most difficult problems 
the military engineer has before him. How, without weakening his defences, 
he is to get light and air into the buildings, and an efficient sewerage, would 
test the ingenuity of a Brunei. It is possible that the best plan would be by 
the employment of thick moveable iron doors and shutters. In time of peace 
these might be open ; in time of war easily replaced. But, in addition, 
means of ventilation must be provided when such defences close the usual 
openings ; tubes must be carried up, and, if necessarily winding, an enlarged 
area might, perhaps, compensate for this. 

It must be said, also, that it is quite certain that in our fortified places many 
of the arrangements are much worse than they need be, and that the sanitary 
rules deducible from home experience should be applied in every case when 
the defensive properties are not interfered with. 



294 HABIT AXIOMS. 



SUB-SECTION III. BARRACKS IN HOT CLIMATES.* 

The Indian Sanitary Commission have lately recommended that each man 
in barracks shall have from 80 to 100 superficial feet, and from 1000 to 1500 
cubic feet. Mr Webb,t who has paid great attention to the subject of over- 
crowding in Indian barracks, and who believes that it is the grand cause of 
insalubrity in India, has adduced good reasons for thinking that this amount 
is not nearly sufficient. It is suggested, indeed, that 3000 cubic feet of space 
is not too much. 

The older barracks in both the East and West Indies were often merely 
copies of the English barrack square. In some cases, also, the exigencies of 
defence led to a cramped and irregular plan, and owing to the little attention 
which was paid either to the health or comfort of the soldier, overcrowding 
and deficient ventilation were as common in the tropics as at home. For 
several years there has been a gradual improvement, and in India especially 
vast and extensive palaces have been reared in many stations, which testify at 
any rate to the anxiety of the Government to house their soldiers properly. 

It will be desirable to refer here chiefly to the Indian barracks, but the 
same principles apply to all hot countries. 

I shall not refer to the old barracks, but to the later and the present 
patterns. 

1. As a type of the later barracks the Dalhousie Barracks in Fort William 
may be cited. They are a magnificent pile of three floors ; each floor con- 
tains three long parallel rooms opening into each other, and with verandahs 
on the side ; each room is about 19 feet wide, and contains two rows of beds. 
The whole floor is, in fact, one large room longitudinally divided, contains six 
rows of beds, and holds 306 men, who have a large superficial and cubic space. 
The breadth of these three parallel rooms and verandahs is more than 64 feet. 

We must not criticise this arrangement without remembering the conditions 
under which the architect worked. He had a confined space at his disposal, 
and a large number of men to accommodate. It is said that so numerous are 
the openings, and so strong the current of air, that the air is never otherwise 
than pure, and that at times the men even suffer from too strong currents. 
The plan is said to answer. Perhaps, then, nothing ought to be said against 
it, yet I cannot think this arrangement right in principle, supposing that space 
could be obtained. It is a great compression of the population into narrow 
limits. 

2. Another variety of barracks was planned by Sir Charles Napier, and 
erected at Mean Meer. In order to prevent risk of overcrowding, great height 
was given to the barracks, as much as 35 feet, with a breadth of only 20. 
The men's cots were placed almost close together, and though cubic space was 
secured (2232 cubic feet), superficial space was sacrificed. These barracks 
have been ravaged by cholera, and, no doubt, the construction is faulty, but it 
must be remembered that the proximity of large cesspools would, under any 
circumstances, have rendered those barracks unhealthy. 

3. In 1857 and 1858 the Bengal Government ordered standard plans to be 

* The Barrack and Hospital Improvement Commission, consisting of Sir Richard Airey, 
Captain Galton, R.E., Dr Sutherland, Dr Logan, Captain Belfield, with Colonel Sir Proby 
Cautley, Sir Ranald Martin, and Mr Rawlinson added for Indian Sanitary Works, have drawn 
up a report, entitled " Suggestions in regard to Sanitary Works required for improving Indian 
Stations," which will become the official guide to such works in India. This chapter was 
written before these suggestions reached me, but I have incorporated as many of their directions 
as possible, and most strongly recommend the report itself to every medical officer. 

t Remarks on the Health of European Soldiers in India- By H. Webb. Bombay, 1864, 
p. 50. 



BARRACKS IN HOT CLIMATES. 



295 



if 



ffl 



prepared for barracks, hospitals, latrines, &c., and several barracks have been 
built according to these plans. 

Two kinds of barracks were ordered. 

(a.) Barrack for a company of infantry on one floor. 

There is a central hall and two verandahs, inner and outer. The dimensions 
are given in the plan. Two 
lines of cots occupy the 
hall, and one line an inner 
verandah ; the other inner 
verandah is used as a day- 
room. Small rooms at the 
end accommodate Serjeants, 
reading and water rooms. 
The doors are numerous, 
and are opposite each other, 
so that there is a clear 
draught through. Ventila- 
tors are also let into the 
roof. The roof of the cen- 
tral hall is a gable; the 
roofs of the verandahs are 
flat; all are double. The 
barracks are raised about 3 
feet from the ground. 

In this construction the 
day-rooms and sleeping- 
rooms are really in one ; 
the advantage of separate 
ventilation is lost, though 
the same expense would 
have given entirely distinct 
rooms ; the building is too 
broad, and there are three 
rows of beds. On the other 
hand, there is a good super- 
ficial and cubic space. In 
some cases barracks on the 
same principle have been 
made with a single veran- 
dah, as at Kurrachee.* 

(b.) The second standard 
Bengal plan is for a double- 
storied barrack, with half a 
company on each floor, 
the construction otherwise 
being precisely the same. 

* A very good description of the new barracks at Kurrachee is given by Dr Inglis (64th 
Regiment) in the Army Medical Report for 1861. The barrack rooms are ten in number, 120 
feet apart, and placed broadside to the wind ; each room is 278 feet long (besides end rooms 
for Serjeants), 24 wide, and 22 high- giving at least 1467 cubic feet per man ; there are 25 doors, 
each 9J feet high, with a small window above ; a verandah 11J feet wide runs round the whole 
biiilding ; there are six large side ventilators in the roof, which is formed of wood covered with 
tiles. Dr Inglis would have preferred continuous ventilators along the whole, course of the roof, 
and, no doubt, this view is perfectly correct. Latrines, urinaries, and cookhouses, are at con- 
venient distances in rear and to leeward. 






Fig. 81. Bengal Standard 
Plan for a company of Euro- 
pean infantry on one floor. 



Fig. 82. 
Bengal Standard Plan. 



296 HABITATIONS. 

4. Another description of barrack has been recently erected at some stations. 
The barrack is two-storied, and is surrounded by a verandah ; the lower story 
is the day, the upper the sleeping, room. There are only two rows of beds. 
If, in addition to this, this barrack is raised from the ground, and if it is 
made smaller, so as to hold only half a company (as at some stations), it would 
seem difficult to devise a better plan. 

5. One or two of the old barracks in India have been much praised ; and 
it is remarkable that these are barracks of the most simple kind. In a very 
useful book on the means of preserving the health of the European soldier in 
India, Dr Mouat, the Inspector-General of jails in Bengal, remarks that, in 
his wide experience, the healthiest barracks he ever saw were rows of common 
wooden sheds, in Moulmein, in Tenasserim. Having been quartered for two 
years at this station, I can fully confirm the statement of the -healthiness 1 of 
those barracks. They were merely ten long wooden sheds, one for a company, 
very roughly put together, and raised from the ground from 2 to 6 feet, and 
surrounded by a small verandah. The roof was slanting, and was covered 
merely with the thin leaf of the Mpa palm. Through the innumerable 
crevices in the walls, and through the thin roof, air passed with such facility, 
that ventilation was more perfect than in any building I have ever seen. 

To the eye of a man fresh from India, they might have appeared hardly fit 
for habitation, and to be scarcely at all sheltered from the sun ; but they 
really possessed every condition of health. In the bamboo houses, so com- 
mon in Burmah, ventilation goes on with great facility; the wind blows 
through them, but so checked and divided into currents by the interwoven 
bamboo, as to be almost imperceptible. 

It has been proposed to adopt a different style of building altogether, and 
to copy some of the sub-tropical nations, who build their towns with narrow 
streets ; and so arrange their houses as to have as much shade as possible. 
But this impedes ventilation ; and the same result is obtained by observing 
the rule of never allowing the sun's rays to fall on the main wall of a house. 

The urinals, latrines (see SEWERAGE), and cookhouses, are now always placed 
as outhouses, at some short distance, and connected by covered ways. 

There is no doubt of the excellence of some of these plans ; but improve- 
ments can unquestionably be n^ade, and various suggestions will be found in 
the Indian Sanitary Keport, which I have here embodied. 

1. Size of Houses. If there are no strong military reasons to the contrary, it 
seems certain that it is even more important in India than in England to 
spread the men over the widest available area, and not to place more than 
fifty men in a single block, and twenty-five men in a single room. There has 
been an objection raised, that small detached houses on the hot plains of 
India, not having any large space in shadow, get everywhere heated by the 
sun's rays, and become very hot. The objection is theoretical ; it is the 
immense blocks of masonry used in the construction of large buildings which 
are to be avoided as much as possible, since, when once heated, they take 
hours to cool. 

2. Arrangement of Houses. Broadside on to the prevalent wind, and dis- 
position en echelon, as now adopted in India, is obviously the proper plan. 
The only exception will be when there are marsh or gully winds to be avoided, 
and then the houses should be placed end on to the deleterious wind ; and no 
windows should open on that side. But it is seldom such a site would be 
selected or kept. 

3. Breadth of Houses. As in England, it is important to have only two 
rows of beds in each house,. and to keep the houses under 30 feet in width, 



BARRACKS IN HOT CLIMATES. 297 

so as to permit effective perflation. A single verandah is as good as a double 
one in keeping off the direct rays of the sun from the walls of the house, and 
two verandahs (one inner, and one outer) add to the breadth to be ventilated. 
The width of the verandahs must be 10 to 12 feet ; and on the southern and 
western sides wooden jalousies may have to be placed, so as to occupy 3 or 4 
feet at the upper part of the verandah. 

Verandahs should be ventilated by openings at the highest part, so as to 
have a free movement of air through them ; this is very important. If there 
are two stories, the roof of the upper verandah should be double. 

Materials of Building. 

On this point there is little choice, for the risk of fire renders the use of 
wood undesirable for walls and roof. And yet, apart from this risk, loosely 
joined wood, or frames of bamboo, have the great advantage of allowing air to 
pass through the walls. Brick or stone has therefore to be used. In India, 
sun-dried brick (kutcha), covered with cement, or faced with burnt brick, is 
often used ; and the remains of Babylon or Nineveh show how imperishable 
a material this is if properly protected. It is said to be a cooler material than 
burnt brick (pucka), but it absorbs a great deal of moisture. 

Iron barracks were sent out from England during the mutiny, but were said 
to be hot, and were not liked; but iron frames have been usefully em- 
ployed, the intervals being filled up with unburnt bricks. There is, however, 
a very general feeling against unburnt brick, on account of the moisture it 
absorbs and retains. 

Construction of the Building. 

The three points to be aimed at are : avoiding the malaria and dampness 
of the ground, should there be any risk of this ; insuring coolness ; providing 
ventilation. 

(a.) Employment of Open Arches for the Basement. The extraordinary 
diminution in the risk of malaria by elevating the building only a few feet 
above the ground, and allowing a free current of air under the house, is illus- 
trated in various parts of the world : along the banks of the Lower Danube, 
in the plains of Burmah and Siam, &c. But another great benefit is obtained : 
dryness and freedom from pent-up, stagnant, and often septic masses of air 
are insured, so that, even when the soil is not distinctly malarious, buildings 
should be raised. In a malarious country, the height of the ground-floor 
above the ground should be 8 or 10 feet; in non-malarious districts 3 or 4 
feet are sufficient, but it should always be high enough to be cleaned easily. 

If high enough, these open spaces afford excellent places for exercise during 
the heat of the sun. 

(b.) Walls. Very thick brick walls do not add to coolness (Chevers), but 
being thoroughly heated during the day, give out heat all night. The direct 
rays of the sun should not be allowed to fall on any part of the main wall. 
This will be found one of the most important rules for insuring coolness. 
Double main Avails, with a wide space between, and free openings above and 
below, so as to admit a constant movement of air between, is the coolest plan 
known. Considering the excellent ventilation which goes on in bamboo and 
wooden houses, it may be a question whether, in the warm parts of India, 
the walls might not be made as far as possible permeable ; at any rate, above 
the heads of the men. Whitening the outside walls reflects the heat, but is 
dazzling to the eyes ; almost as good reflection, and much less dazzling, is 
obtained by using a slight amount of yellow or light blue colour in the cement 
or lime-wash. 



298 HABITATIONS. 

(c.) Floors. The materials at present used are flagstones (in Bengal), slates 
(in some barracks in the Punjab), greenstone (in some Madras barracks), 
tiles, bricks placed on end and covered with concrete, pounded brick and 
lime beaten into a solid concrete and plastered with lime, broken nodulated 
limestone or kunkur (in places where the masses of kunkur are found, as in 
Bengal), asphalte, pitch, and sand, wood (Chevers). Of these various mate- 
rials, the asphalte gets soft and is objectionable ; the cements and kunkur 
wear into holes, produce dust, and have been supposed to cause ophthalmia 
(Chevers) ; wood is liable to attacks of white ants, &c. 

On the whole, it would seem that good wood (if there be a space below the 
barracks) with brick supports is the best, and after this tiles. 

(d.) Roofs. Double-roofs are now usually employed, and are made slant- 
ing, and not terraced. The terraced roofs, if made single (i.e., with battens 
on the joists covered with kunkur), conduct heat too freely ; but if made 
double, with a good current of air, there is an advantage in giving a promenade 
to the men, and also, at some seasons of the year, the roof may be most advan- 
tageously used as a sleeping-place. 

The sloping roofs are better adapted for ventilation. The coolest roof is 
made of thatch, covered with tiles ; it would be cooler still if the thatch were 
outside ; but thatch is dangerous on account of fire, and harbours vermin and 
insects. If there is a good space between the two roofs (2 feet), and if there 
are sufficient openings to permit a good current of air, perhaps two tile roofs 
would be as cool as any. 

It has been suggested by Julius Jeffries to have the outer roof made of a 
polished metal (tin), to reflect the heat. In Canada tin is used. In the 
Crimean War the roofs of Renkioi Hospital, on the Dardanelles, were covered 
with polished tin ; it was found, however, somewhat difficult to place it so as 
to exclude rain, and the surface soon became tarnished. The thermometric 
experiments did not show a greater lessening of heat than 3 Fahr. below 
houses not tin coated. 

(e.) Doors and Windows. These are now always made very numerous, and 
opposite each other, so as to permit perfect perflation. The official " Sugges- 
tions" order one window for every two beds. Five doors are recommended 
for each room of twenty-five men ; and Norman Chevers gives a good rule : 
A light placed in the centre at night should be seen on all sides. Upper as 
well as lower windows a clerestory, in fact are useful ; the lower windows 
should then open to the ground. In most of the stations in northern India 
the windows must be glazed. 

The committee appointed to carry out the suggestions of the Indian Sani- 
tary Commission have recommended that each window should consist of two 
parts the upper portion, about 2 feet in depth, being hinged on its lower edge 
to fall inwards, so as to direct the currents of air towards the ceiling of the 
room. 

Ventilation of Tropical Barracks. 

If barracks are not made too broad, and are properly placed, the same prin- 
ciples of ventilation may be applied to them as to barracks at home. The 
perflation of the wind should be obtained as freely as possible. The numerous 
doors and windows, however, render it unnecessary to provide special inlets ; 
outlets should, as at home, be at the top of the room, either along the ridge, 
or if of shafts, they should be carried up some distance ; if they are made of 
masonry, and painted black, the sun's rays will cause a good up-current. The 
area of the shafts is ordered (" Suggestions," p. 22) to be 1 square inch to every 
15 or 20 cubic feet, with louvres above and inverted louvres below. In the 



BAltllACKS IN HOT CLIMATES. 299 

lower rooms these shafts are to be built in the walls ; in the upper rooms to 
be in the centre. 

In many parts of India, however, at particular times of the year, the air 
is both hot and stagnant ; in such stations artificial ventilation must be 
employed, and the forcing in of air offers greater advantages than the method 
by respiration. The wheel of Desaguliers was introduced into India many 
years ago by Dr Rankine, and, under the name of " Thermantidote," is fre- 
quently used in private houses and hospitals. Wheels may be used of a 
larger kind, and driven by horses or bullocks, or steam or water-power. The 
great advantage is that the air can be taken through a tunnel, and cooled either 
by the cooler earth or by evaporation (see Cooling of Air). 

An Arnott's pump, made as large as a man can easily work, will be found 
to be cheaper, and as good as the thermantidote. 

The common punkah is a ventilator, as it displaces masses of air ; the 
waves pass far beyond the building, and are replaced by fresh waves entering 
in. An improved punkah, worked by horse or bullock, and supplied with 
water for evaporation, was devised by the late Mr Moorsom of the 52d Regi- 
ment ; it is described and figured in the Report of the Indian Sanitary Com- 
mission, and would seem likely to be a very useful modification of the common 
punkah. 

Ventilation in most parts of India must be combined with plans for cooling, 
and often moistening the air. 

Cooling of Air. When the air is dry, i.e., when the relative humidity is 
low, there is no difficulty in cooling the air to almost any extent. If the air 
be moving, this is still easier. The evaporation of water is the great cooling 
agency. A drop of water, in evaporating, absorbs as much heat as would raise 
967 equal drops 1 Fahr., or in other words, the evaporation of a gallon of 
water absorbs as much heat from the air as would raise 4^ gallons of water 
from zero to the boiling point. As the specific heat of an equal weight of air 
is J that of water, it follows that the evaporation of 1 gallon or 10 Ib of water 
will cool (10 x 4 x 967) 38,680 K) of air, or 477,637 cubic feet of air 1 Fahr. ; 
or, to put it in another way, the evaporation of 1 gallon of water will reduce 
26,216 cubic feet of air from 80 to 60 Fahr. In India the temperature of 
a hot, dry wind is often reduced 15 to 20 by blowing through a wet kuskus 
tattie ; but merely sprinkling water on the floors will have a perceptible effect 
on the temperature. 

When the air is stagnant, cooling is less easy. In India it is often attempted, 
in a still atmosphere, to insure coolness by creating currents of air either by 
the simple punkah or by thermantidotes ; these act by increasing evaporation 
from the body, and they certainly do away with the oppressiveness of a still 
atmosphere. But evaporation of water must be also employed, as in Captain 
Moorsom's punkah just referred to, or in some other way. 

In the case of a thermantidote, or Arnott pump, thin, wet cloths suspended 
in a short discharge-tube, or ice suspended in it, or a bottle containing a freez- 
ing mixture, and with a wet surface, will answer equally well. 

When water is abundant, other contrivances may be employed. A little 
instrument is now used in medicine, by means of which water is subjected to 
great pressure by means of a pump which compresses air in a globe. When 
a stopcock is turned, the water is forced out with such velocity as to be con- 
verted into the finest spray. It is, so> to speak, pulverised. Now, nothing 
could be better adapted for evaporation than to interpose, in the way of a dry 
current of air, water thus finely divided. Or the beautiful sheet-water fountains 
used to wash air for ventilation might be employed. In the old Roman, and 
some Italian houses, coolness was obtained by a fountain in the central court ; 



300 HABITATIONS. 

and where it can be done, the more common employment of fountains in the 
houses in the hot parts of India may be suggested. 

Cooling is then easy when the air is dry, or is not moister than 70 per cent, 
of saturation ; but when the air is very moist, and almost saturated, as is often 
the case, for example, in Lower Scinde, and is at the same time still, evapora- 
tion is very slow. What can be done ? Of course the air must be set in 
motion by mechanical means. But how is it to be cooled ? Two plans suggest 
themselves taking the air through a deep tunnel, and the employment of 
ice. 

The tunnel plan was tried, I believe, some years ago at Agra, and was not 
well thought of. But everything depends on the mode of making the tunnel. 
It must be deep enough to get into a cold stratum of earth. 

The Chinese, in the north of China, suspend lumps of ice in their rooms 
during the summer ; but this seems a wasteful plan. Ice in tunnels would 
have a much greater effect. If the ice cannot be obtained, freezing mixtures 
might possibly be used, if the expense is not a bar. 

Ablution Rooms. In India, every private house, and almost every room 
in a house, belonging to a European, has its bath-room. And not only the 
luxury, but the benefit is so great, that bath-rooms should be considered 
essential to every barrack. For tha usual purposes of ablution, the plan now 
used on home service is the best ; but it should be supplemented by shower- 
baths. In order that these shall be efficiently given, the old plan of carrying 
w^ater by hand must be given up ; shoiver-baths "for a regiment could never 
be provided in this way ; water in large quantity must be laid on in pipes, 
and cisterns at the top of every barrack should feed the ablution rooms, and 
supply water for the urinals. At least from 12 to 18 gallons daily should be 
allowed per head for shower-baths alone, and, if possible, more than this, as 
general baths should be also provided. So essential must baths be considered 
for health, that a large supply of water should be considered a necessary con- 
dition in the choice of site. The disposal of the water after use is a question 
for the engineer ; but it must not be permitted to soak into the ground near 
the barracks ; it might seem superfluous to notice this, if the custom of allow- 
ing the ablution water to run under the houses did not prevail at some stations. 

Urinals. Urine tubs are still used in many of the barracks in India, but 
their use should be discontinued as soon as possible. Evaporation is rapid, 
and decomposition soon sets in. Several army surgeons have pointed out that 
the atmosphere is greatly contaminated in this way, and some have considered 
that affections of the eyes are produced by the ammoniacal fumes. Earthen- 
ware or slate urinals should be used, with water running through them ; and 
if there are no drains to carry off the urine, a zinc pipe may be laid inside 
the building, and open into a tub below, which should be emptied daily. 

The War-office Committee, in their " Suggestions " (p. 24), recommended 
Mr Jenning's urinal, which consists of a basin, valve, and syphon-trap, sup- 
plied with water. It is cleaned and filled by raising the handle. As already 
noticed in the Home Barracks, the suggestion of a small water-tap above, to 
allow the means of ablution, seems an excellent one. 



SECTION II. 
WOODEN HUTS. 

Of late years the use of wooden huts, both in peace and war, has greatly 
extended in several of the European armies. In peace, their first cost is 
small, and they are very healthy. In war, they afford the means of hous- 



WOODEN HUTS. 



301 



ing an army expeditiously, and are better adapted for winter quarters than 
tents. 

The healthiness of wooden huts doubtless depends on the free ventilation ; 
when single-cased, the wind blows through them ; and even when double 
cased, there is generally good roof and gable ventilation. 

Numerous patterns of huts have been used in our own and other armies, 
from small houses holding six men, to the large houses designed by Mr Brunei 
for Eenkioi Hospital, and which were 25 feet high in the centre, 12 feet at 
the eaves, and held 50 men. In the Crimea the most usual sizes were for 
12, 18, and 24 men. 

In arranging lines of huts, as much external ventilation and sunlight must 
be secured as possible for every hut. According to circumstances, the arrange- 
ment in lines, or en echelon, &c., must be adopted. 

In time of peace, huts are sure to be put up well ; to be properly under- 
pinned ; on a drained site, and well warmed. 



War Huts. 

In the putting up of huts in time of war, when everything is done more 
roughly, the following points should be attended to : 

Do not excavate ground, if possible ; and never pile earth against the sides. 

(a.) Floor. Whenever practicable, underpin the joists, so as to get a cur- 
rent of air under the floor. Arrange for the drainage underneath, so that 
water may not lie underneath, but may "be carried by a surface drain at once 
to an outside drain. If the floor is entirely of wood, have it screwed, and not 
nailed down, so that the boards may "be taken up, and the space below cleaned. 
If the sides are of planks, and the centre of earth, pave the centre with small 
stones, if they can be got, so that it may be swept. If this cannot "be done, 
remove a little of the surface earth every now and then, and put clean sand or 
gravel down. 

(1.) Sides. If the sides are double, leave out a plank at the bottom of the 
outside, and at the top of the inner lining. If the sides are single, make 
oblique openings for ventilation above the men's heads, with wooden flaps 
falling inwards, and capable of being pulled more or less up, and enclosing 
the opening. Place a plank obliquely along the bottom at the outside, to 
throw the drip from the roof outwards, so that the water may not sink under 
the houses. Whitewash both the inside and outside of the planks. 

(c.) Roof. Arrange for ridge ventilation. If felt is used, let the strips 
run along the sides, and not over the ridge, and 
beginning at the bottom, so that each successive 
strip may imbricate over the one below it ; use 
no nails, but place thin strips of board across 
the strips from the ridge downwards, to hold 
the felt down. 

Warming. In cold countries, if stoves are 
provided, place them at one end, and let the 
chimney run horizontally along above thi tie- 
beams, to the other end, and open at the gable; 
in this way, the heat is economised : or put a 




'Fig. 83. 



casing of wood round the stove, except in front, and allow fresh air to pass 
between the stove and casing. If no stoves are provided, and a fireplace is 
made with stone, it should be put at one end, and a wooden trough running 
out at the gable be used as a chimney. If a good broad slab of stone can be 
obtained for a hearth-stone, dig a trench under the boards and lead the air 



302 HABITATIONS. 

from outside under the hearth-stone, and provide an opening at the other side 
of the stone. In this way the entering air is warmed. 

Trenches should be carried round huts as in the case of tents. 

Causes of Unhealthiness of Wooden Huts. 

1. Dampness from Ground, Earth against Walls, fyc. Drain well. Cut 
away ground from outside ; have good trenches round, with a good fall. 

2. Substances collecting under Floors. Look well to this as a common 
cause of unhealthiness. 

3. Earth round Huts saturated with Refuse, Urine, $c. Every now and 
then clear away the surface earth, and replace it with clean dry earth. 

4. Ventilation bad from too few openings. 

5. Cold. Issue extra clothes, if additional fuel cannot be obtained. See 
that the greatest effect is obtained from the fuel ; but do not, if it can possibly 
be helped, close the ventilators. 

SECTION III. 
TENTS AND CAMPS. 

SUB-SECTION I. TENTS. 

In temperate climates, no army has ever been able to war without tents ; 
and the importance of providing good tents is obvious. 

A good tent should be light, so that it may be easily transported, readily 
and firmly pitched, and easily taken down. It should completely protect 
from weather, be well ventilated, and durable. 

It is perfectly easy to devise a tent with some of these characteristics, but 
not to combine them all. 

The tents used in our army are as follows : 

Home Service. 

The Bell-Tent. A round tent with sides straight to 1 or 2 feet high, and 
then slanting to a central pole. Diameter of base, 14 feet; height, 10 feet; 
area 'of base, 154 square feet ; cubic space, 513 feet ; weight, when dry,* about 
65 to 70 K>. The canvas of the new pattern is made of cotton or linen. The 
ropes extend about 1 J feet all around. It holds from twelve to sixteen men ; 
and in war time, even eighteen have been in one tent. The men lie with 
their feet towards the pole, their heads to the canvas. With eighteen men, 
the men's shoulders touch. Formerly, there was no attempt at ventilation ; 
but now, a few holes are made in the canvas near the pole. Ventilation, 
however, is most imperfect. t Dr Fyffe (of the Army Medical School), who 
has carefully examined this point, finds the holes so small, that the move- 
ment of air is almost imperceptible. There is little ventilation through the 
canvas, and none at all when it is wet with dew. The bell-tent is in all re- 
spects, except weight, a rude and imperfect contrivance. It becomes exces- 
sively hot ; and the atmosphere in? the middle of the day is most oppressive. 
When pitched, as usual, without any persons in it, the air in a few hours 
loses its freshness, and is close and unpleasant when the tent is entered. 

The Hospital Marquee. This tent is two-poled, with double canvas. It is 
made of a lower, almost quadrangular part, and an upper part, sloping from 

* Complete wetting of a tent adds from 30 to 40 per cent, to the weight, 
f* Barrack Improvement Report, p. ]70. 



TENTS. , 

the top of the straight portion to the ridge. Length, 33 feet; breadth, 12 
feet (up to 5 feet in height, and lessening above) ; height, 5 feet to the top of 
the straight part, and 7 from this to the ridge, making 12 from ground to 
ridge; area of ground, 396 square feet; total cubical space (reckoning the 
lower part as a quadrangle, and the upper part as a triangle), 3366 feet. 

It is intended for sick, and can accommodate ten men well ; eighteen is 
the regulation, and twenty-four men have been put in it ; but this crowds it 
extremely. A large flap at the top can be opened for ventilation, and the fly 
can be raised. Its weight (including the valise) is about 500 R>. An india- 
rubber sheet is now supplied, to put on the ground, and this weighs 1451b. 

It is a good tent when care is taken with ventilation ; but there should be 
a way of raising one whole side, so as to expose every part of the tent. 

Officers' Tents. Small and large marquees are allowed. Each field-officer, 
and captain, and every two subalterns, have one tent. 

On Indian Service. 

The tents for Europeans are marquees, with two poles and ridge, double 
fly. Length, 21 feet; breadth, 15; height to inner fly, 10 feet 3 inches; 
and outer fly, 1 1 feet 9 inches. Twenty-five infantry are accommodated with 
85 cubic feet per man ; or twenty cavalry with saddles, with 100 cubic feet. 

The tents for natives have a single fly. Length, 22 feet; breadth, 12 ; 
height of pole, 10 feet ; to accommodate twenty cavalry, or twenty-five infantry. 

French Tents. In the French army, two chief kinds of soldiers' tents are 
used. 

1. The tente d'abri, or shelter-tent of hempen canvas, is intended for three 
or four men. Each man carries one-third or one-fourth of the tent, and a 
stick ; the weight of the two being 3 ft). The canvas he carries serves him 
for a covering while marching ; or he can form it into a bag into which he can 
creep. Each sheet is 5 feet 8 inches long, and 5 feet 3 inches broad ; the 
stick is 4 feet 4 inches long, and 1J inch in diameter. When the tent is 
pitched, the three men can creep inside, and have as much space and as good 
ventilation as the English soldier in the bell-tent. This sort of tent has the 
great advantage of giving protection during the march, and immediate cover 
when the march is over. The number of baggage animals for the army is also 
greatly lessened. 

Some of the French tentes d'abri are intended for four or six men ; the 
length is 6J feet, the height, 3J ; it is carried by three or four men. The total 
weight of the tent is from 6 J to 8f S>. 

2. Tente de Troupe. This is a two-poled tent, with a connecting ridge- 
pole. It is 19J feet long, by 13 or 14 wide, and 10 high; the ground area 
is 25 3 - 5 square feet. It is intended for sixteen men. There are two openings 
in the centre, which can be held out by poles, each 5 feet in length, or closed 
at pleasure. Between the poles, at the height of 6 feet, there is a perforated 
wooden plank, on which articles are placed, or from which they hang. The 
total weight is 143*5 R> avoir. 

3. Two conical tents are also sometimes used, like the English bell-tent ; 
one (tente conique) a cone, and the other having an upright wall 16 inches 
high, and then being conical above (tente conique a muraille). This last tent 
is ventilated at the top ; a galvanised iron ring, 12 inches in diameter, receives 
the canvas, which is sewed round it. An opening is thus left of 1 1 3 square 
inches, which can be closed by a wooden top which rests on the top of the 
pole, and is buckled to the ring. Each tent holds twenty men. 

Prussian Tent. This is a conical tent, with a single pole, like the bell-tent 



3 04 HABITATIONS. 

of the English army ; it is 14 feet diameter, the polo llf feet high ; it holds 
fifteen to eighteen men, and weighs 80 K> avoir. 

Prussian Hospital Tents. The ground-floor of the tent is a rectangle 62 feet 
long and 24 broad ; the tent is 16 feet high ; there are 6 or 8 poles ; the area 
is 1488 square feet. It is divided into three parts : a central, 52 feet long and 
24 broad ( = 1248 square feet), for the sick, and two rooms, each 5 feet long and 
24 broad, for attendants, utensils, <fec. Each tent could contain 20 to 22 beds, 
but only 1 2 patients are placed in it. It stands on an area of 80 feet by 40. 
Since 1862 the Prussians have treated many of the worst cases under such 
tents during the summer. The same practice has been adopted in the Austrian 
army for twelve years past. 

The Prussian hospital tent appears to be excellent, and superior to the Eng- 
lish marquee. 

Northern American Tents. At the commencement of the civil war the Sibley 
tent was much used. It is conical, 18 feet in diameter, and 13 feet high, with 
an opening for ventilation, and gives 1102 cubic feet; often twenty or twenty- 
two men were held by one tent. Bell and wedge-shaped tents were also used ; 
the latter was 6 feet 10 inches long, 8 feet 4 inches broad, and 6 feet 10 inches 
high, with a cubic space of 194 feet.' It held six men. 

These tents, however, did not answer ; the ventilation was most imperfect, 
and in the summer of 1862 ponchos and shelter-tents were issued, which in 
the army of the Potomac have superseded the old tents.* The poncho is a 
piece of oilcloth with a slit in the centre, through, which the head is put ; two 
ponchos can form a shelter-tent. The army of the Potomac spent the winter 
in improvised huts of logs or mud, with the shelter-tent for the roof. 

The larger tents are, however, still used for stationary commands, and for 
hospital purposes. 

Other Plans. A very great number of different kinds of tents are employed 
by different nations, and many plans have been proposed of late years, t Of 
these, Edgington's square military tent, and Turner's and Rhodes' tents, are the 
best. The first is a single-poled pyramidal tent, with a second pole to sustain 
the entrance flap ; it is 13 feet square, and will hold sixteen men. There are 
ventilating holes through the canvas at the top, protected by canvas. It 
weighs 90 Bb. 

Turner's tents are conical and oblong ; the pole is hollow iron, and is sup- 
ported in a tripod, below which a stove can be placed, to which the pole 
serves as a chimney. Instead of ropes, galvanised wire and iron pegs are 
used, and wire ropes running from the pole to the circumference are used to 
sustain hammocks, and so raise the men from the ground. A tent for eighteen 
men weighs 3005). Turner's hospital tent is 60 feet long, 29 wide, and 18 high, 
and weighs 896Jb.J A great advantage of these and similar tents is that a 
stove can be easily used, and there is pretty good ventilation through the 
hollow pole. The raising the men off the ground is also a great advantage. 

Major Rhodes' tent is a curvilinear octagon, which is made up by a frame 
of stout ash or bamboo ribs, which are stuck into the ground, passing through 
a double-twisted rope near the ground, and bent into the centre, where they 
meet in a wooden head fitted with iron sockets, to receive the ends of the 
ribs. The framework is not unlike an open umbrella. The rope through 
which the ribs pass is well pegged to the ground, and there are also outside 
storm ropes, so that, both from the shape of the tent and its ties, no storm can 

* Woodward, " Outlines of the Chief Camp Diseases of the United States Army," 1863, p. 46. 
t A very good description will be found in Major Rhodes' "Tent Life and Encamping," 1859. 
J Rhodes, p. 178. 



TENTS. 305 

blow it over. There is good top ventilation through an opening protected by 
a leathern cap, and the canvas covering which contains the tent (when 
packed) can be divided into two parts, and buttoned inside the bottom of 
the tent, so as to prevent air from blowing in under the canvas. 

A small tent (guard tent), capable of holding four or five men, is also used. 

The hospital tent is made of two of these tents connected by a portion of 
tent made of ribs which run to a ridge pole. It is 30 feet long, 15 feet wide, 
and 10 feet high, but can be made of any length. The field tent weighs 
100 Ib ; the hospital tent, 395 R>. Both these seem excellent tents ; they give 
much more ground area, cubic space, and standing room, than any form of 
cone tent, and are more convenient, as there are no poles. 

General Conclusions. 

The history of all wars in the temperate zone proves that men cannot war 
without tents. Both theory and experience show that the best arrangement 
for a soldier is that he should carry a portion of a shelter-tent, which may at 
once serve him for a cloak on the march, and a cover at night, if he is 
obliged to lie out without pitching his tent, and which, joined to two or three 
other similar pieces, may make a tent to hold three or four. For camps of 
position, where troops are kept for months, and where there is less trouble 
about transport, larger tents can be used, and then either a tent like that of 
Major Ehodes', or a two or four poled tent like the Prussian, appears to be 
the best. 

This French system, now adopted by the Americans, is in reality a very old 
one. The Macedonians used small tents which held two men,* and Rhodes 
figures a little shelter-tent of the same form as the French, and holding appa- 
rently five men, which was in use in the British army in 1750. 

At various times in late wars the English army have extemporised tents of 
this description, by suspending blankets over their firelocks. An instance of 
this occurred in the long march of the 12th Regiment, in 1852, at the Cape 
(see chapter on MARCHES). Profiting by this hint, and struck by the military 
advantages which would result from the men carrying their tents, a private 
soldier, Paul, of the 12th Regiment, devised a shelter-tent for three men, 
which was shown at Chatham in 1862. It is an improvement over the French 
tent, and is better than the American poncho-tent, as, instead of a slit, through 
which the head passes on the march, a portion of the sheet goes over the head 
so as to form a hood. The man is thus perfectly protected on the march to 
below the knees. Two sheets form a tent for three men, the third sheet being 
on the ground. Colonel Stewart of the 2d Depot Battalion has still further 
improved this tent, which now seems as good as it can be. 

On the whole, this tent seems better than Major Rhodes' guard tent, as one 
or two men can form a tent with their own canvas ; and if the sticks are 
lost, the rifles can supply their place. 

An army could then encamp and house itself as fast as it could take up its 
ground, and so short is the time necessary for pitching the tent, that even in heavy 
rain the men would not get wet. The men lie much more comfortably than 
in the bell-tent,t and there is scarcely a possibility of its being blown down. 



* Rhodes' " Tent Life," p. ]3. 

t In some of the last China expeditions waterproof sheets were issued, of which the men 
made tents as well as cloaks. I was told by a private soldier who carried one of these, that 
nothing more comfortable was ever issued to" the men. His sheet was the last thing the man 
would part with. 

U 



3 Of) HABITATIONS. 



SUB-SECTION II. ENCAMPMENTS. 

Several regulations have been issued by the Quartermaster-General's De- 
partment; and the Queen's Regulations (pocket edition, p. 278) contain 
several orders which will be noticed immediately. The Barrack Improvement 
Commissioners also, in their Eeport (1861), lay down certain rules which 
must be attended to (p. 168). 

Encampments are divided into two kinds those of position, which are 
intended to stand for some time, and incidental camps. The camps are 
arranged in the same way in peace and war, as a means of training the men ; 
but, of course, in peace the war arrangement need not be adhered to. 

In the instructions issued in 1853 by the Quartermaster-General's Depart- 
ment, the following rules were laid down : 

1. That the front of the camp be made to correspond in extent with the 
front occupied by the troops in line. 

2. That the means of passing freely through the encampment with a large 
front be maintained. 

3. That the tents be disposed with a view to the greatest amount of order, 
cleanness, ventilation, and salubrity. 

4. That the camp be as compactly arranged as the above considerations permit. 
The general principle of the encampment is a military one, viz., that the 

line shall correspond to that in which the troops would engage, viz., in order 
of battle,* a plan which originated with Gustavus Adolphus. A battalion of 
infantry being in line, it wheels into open column on the reverse flank, and 
then pitches its tents. If there are ten companies, there are, therefore, ten 
rows of tents, each about 36 yards long and 7 broad, the distance between 
them being the length of the column (36 yards). Or instead of being in open 
column, every second column closes up, and the tents of two companies are 
pitched close to each other, back to back. This leaves, of course, a very much 
wider street between every second row of tents, but the two rows of tents are 
close together. 

In front of the line a broad street is left, on which are three guard tents. 
The company officers' tents are in rear of their companies, and behind these 
are the field officers' tents, the sutlers, horses, kitchens, and the rearguard. 
The latrines are usually in rear of all. From 15 to 20 yards separate each 
row of these tents in rear. 

A battalion of 850 rank and file, encamped on its own front either in open 
column or with the alternate companies closed, will, with all the tents in rear, 
occupy a space of 230 yards by 139, or 32,000 square yards. But if the space 
actually occupied by the men's tents, and the unoccupied spaces between the 
lines of men, be alone considered, the space will be 230x36 = 8280 = 9-7 
square yards to each man. If, again, the area of the men's tents only be in- 
cluded, it will be 7 x 10 x 36 or 14 x 5 x 36 = 2520 square yards, or 3 square 
yards to each person. 

If space permit, the next battalion is encamped on the same line, a broad 
street, equal at least to 1| companies, being left between the battalions. 

Cavalry are encamped in the same way, in columns of troops open, or with 
the alternate troops closed ; 4 feet of space is allowed to each horse, which is 
picketed. 

Artillery encamp with the guns in front, the waggons in two lines behind, 
officers' tents, &c., in rear again, and the horses and men on the flanks, the 

* Rhodes' " Tent Life," p. 218. 



CAMPS. 307 

men being outside. A troop of horse artillery, with 162 men and 155 horses, 
occupies a space of 140 yards by 70. 

On considering these arrangements, it is evident that the compression of 
the men is considerable. Taking the oblong space covered by the men's 
tents, and the spaces between them, and disregarding the space behind with 
the officers' tents, the space per man is only 97 square yards. In the densest 
part of London in 1851, the space was 18*9 yards per head, and in the 
densest part of Liverpool in 1844, it was 6-1 square yards. 

Square yards Tent, per Troo mile > 

pertent* squaremih, 



50 . . 61,952 . . 929,280 

100 . . 30,976 . .. 464,640 

150 . . 20,650 . . 309,760 

200 . -. 15,488 . . 232,320 

300 . . 10,325 . . 154,880 

400 . . 7,744 . . 116,160 

500 . . 6,195 : . 92,928 

600 . . 5,162 . . 77,440 

700 . . 4,425 . . 66,377 

800 . . 3,872 . . 58,080 

900 . . 3,441 . . 51,628 

1000 . . 3,097 . . 46,464 

The number of persons per square mile ie given by the Royal Sanitary 
Commission, as 

Leeds, ...... 87,256 

Manchester, ..... 100,000 

London St James's, Westminster, . 144,008 
East London, ..... 175,816 

In using this table, two calculations should be made first, as to the whole 
area of the camp ; second, as to the ground occupied by that section of the camp 
on which the soldiers' tents stand ; the space covered by the tents and the 
ground between them being included. 

But the compression is hardly represented sufficiently by this. Taking 
the occupied space alone, we find each man has only 3 square yards. Either, 
then, the ventilation must be extremely good, or more space per man should 
be given. As in war it is not always easy to give space, the importance, even 
in a military point of. view, of thoroughly ventilating the tents is obvious. 
It is quite certain that the present bell-tent must be entirely altered. 

Whenever practicable, it should be urged on the military officers to give 
more space to the tents than is allowed in the instructions quoted. The Barrack 
Commissioners say " Battalion tents should never be arranged in double 
line ; short single lines are best. The tents in line should be separated from 
each other by a space at the very least equal to a diameter and half of a tent; 
and the farther the lines can be conveniently placed from each other the 
better" (p. 169). The general arrangement must obviously be adhered to; 
but it would be desirable to abandon the plan of closing up the alternate 
companies, and to give the length of one and a half diameters of a tent 
between the tent-pegs of every tent. But, as already said, the important 
point is to improve the ventilation of the tent itself. 

* Report of the Army Sanitary Commission, 1858, where plans are shown to illustrate this 
point. 

u2 



308 HABITATIONS. 

Compressed Camps. Occasionally the tents have been placed much closer 
together than even on these plans. It is to be presumed that no military 
officer who regards the comfort or health of his men will ever do so without 
an imperative military necessity. Yet it has been occasionally done, and 
tents have been placed almost as closely as they could be, even when ground 
was available, and no enemy was in front. Under these circumstances, an 
explanation of the reasons for not crowding the men together will undoubtedly 
satisfy the officer in command, that he is sacrificing comfort, convenience, 
and efficiency, to a false notion of order and neatness. 

* 

Points to be attended to in the Erection and Conservancy of Tents. 

Place the tents as far apart as can be permitted ; have a deep trench dug 
round each tent, and carry it into a good surface-drain running in front of the 
tents, with a proper fall. Place the tent on the ground and do not excavate; 
in a camp of position, the tents can sometimes be raised on a wall constructed 
of stones, or even earth, if this can be plastered over. Whenever possible, 
let the floor of the tent be boarded, the boards being loose, and able to be 
removed. If there are materials, make a framework elevated a few inches 
from the ground to carry the boards. If boards cannot be obtained, canvas 
or waterproof sheets should be used ; whatever is used, take care that nothing 
collects below, and move both boards and canvas frequently to see to this, 
and scrape the earth if it is at all impregnated. If straw is used for bedding, 
get the men to use it carefully ; to place pegs of wood or stones, and make 
ropes of straw running from peg to peg, so that each man may keep his own 
place neat. Take care that the straw is kept dry, and never allow the men 
to use green foliage, or any damp substance. Have the sides of the tent 
thoroughly raised during the day, and even at night, to leeward. Whenever 
practicable (twice a-week if it can be done), the tents should be struck, the 
boards taken up, the surface well cleaned, the worst part of the straw re- 
moved and burnt. 

(For conservancy of camps, see WAR.) 



SECTION IV. 

SUB-SECTION I. HOSPITALS. 
General Remarks. 

During the last ten years a great number of w r orks '(English, French, and 
German) have been written on the construction of hospitals. This has been 
especially owing to the celebrated "Notes on Hospitals," published by Miss 
Nightingale, after the Crimean War a work the importance of which it is 
impossible to overrate and to the very useful pamphlets of Mr Eoberton of 
Manchester. Among military writers, Robert Jackson in this, as in all other 
points, takes the first rank, and his observations on the construction of hos- 
pitals are conceived entirely in the spirit of the best writings of the present 
day. In the short space which can be given to the subject here, I can merely 
condense what has been best said on the subject, as applied especially to 
military hospitals. In the first place, however, a few words are necessary on 
the general question. 

Although the establishment of hospitals is a necessity, and marks the era 
of an advanced civilisation, it must always be remembered that if the crowd- 
ing of healthy men has its danger, the bringing together within a confined 



HOSPITALS. 309 

area many sick persons is far more perilous. The risks of contamination of 
the air, and of impregnation of the materials of the building with morbid 
substances, are so greatly increased, that the greatest care is necessary that 
hospitals shall not become pest-houses, and do more harm than good. We 
must always remember, indeed, that a number of sick persons are merely 
brought together in order that medical attendance and nursing may be more 
easily and perfectly performed. The risks of aggregation are encountered for 
this reason ; otherwise it would be far better that sick persons should be sepa- 
rately treated, and that there should be no chance that the rapidly changing, 
and in many instances putrefying, substances of one sick body should pass 
into the bodies of the neighbouring patients. There is, indeed, a continual 
sacrifice of life from diseases caught in, or aggravated by, hospitals. The many 
advantages of hospitals more than counterbalance this sacrifice, but it should 
be the first object to lessen the chance of injury to the utmost. The risk of 
transference or aggravation of disease is least in the best ventilated hospitals. 
A great supply of air, by immediately diluting and rapidly carrying away the 
morbid substances evolved in such quantities from the bodies and excretions 
of the sick, reduces the risk to its minimum, and perhaps removes it altogether. 
But the supply of air must be enormous ; we are not in a position to say how 
much, but I question whether even the large quantity of 4000 cubic feet per 
head per hour, now assigned by the best observers, will not be found to be 
far below the proper amount for the acute and febrile diseases. 

The causes of the greater contamination of the air of hospitals are these : 

1. More organic effluvia are given off from the bodies and excretions of 
sick men. These are only removed by the most complete ventilation. 

2. The medical and surgical management of the sick necessarily often ex- 
poses to the air excretions, dressings, foul poultices, soiled clothes, &c., and 
the amount of substance thus added to the air is by no means inconsiderable, 
even with the best management. 

3. The walls and floors of hospitals absorb organic matters and retain them 
obstinately, so that in some cases of repeated attacks of hospital gangrene in 
a ward, it has been found necessary to destroy even the whole wall. Con- 
tinual drippings on the floor of substances which soak into the boards and 
through crevices, and collect under the floor, also occur, and thus collections 
exist of putrefying matters which constantly contaminate the air. 

4. The bedding and furniture also absorb organic substances, and are a 
great cause of insalubrity. 

5. Till very recently, even in the best hospitals, the water-closets and urinals 
were badly arranged, and air passed from these places into the wards. 

In addition to the necessary amount to dilute these substances, the freest 
supply of air is also now known to be a curative means of the highest mo- 
ment ; in the cases of the febrile diseases, both specific and symptomatic, it is 
indeed the first essential of treatment ; sometimes, especially in typhus and 
small-pox, it even lessens duration, and in many cases it renders convalescence 
shorter.* 

There can, I believe, be no doubt, that the necessity for an unlimited sup- 
ply of air is the cardinal consideration in the erection of hospitals, and, in 
fact, must govern the construction of the buildings. For many diseases, 

* The effect of a great supply of air on some diseases is marvellous, and the subject is so im- 
portant that a few examples may be quoted. The experience of the fevers in the force assem- 
bled at Cork in 1795 ; of the spotted typhus of 1814 at Paris, when it was noticed with astonish- 
ment that the cases placed (with great fear of the result) in the abattoir of Montfaucon (one of 
the highest and most breezy parts of Paris), did infinitely better than the patients in the regular 
hospitals ; and the analogous case of the Irish fever of 1847-48, when cases left in the open air 
and in the rudest sheds recovered better than those patients who had all the advantages of the 



310 HABITATIONS. 

especially the acute, the merest hovels with plenty of air are better than the 
most costly hospitals without it. What ill-judged humanity it is to over- 
crowd febrile patients into a building, merely because it is called an hospital, 
when the very fact of the overcrowding lessens or even destroys its usefulness ! 
In times of war, it should never be forgotten by medical officers that the 
rudest shed, the slightest covering, which will protect from the weather, is 
better than the easy plan so often suggested and acted on, of putting the beds 
a little closer together. 

The recognition that the ample supply of pure air is the first essential of a 
good hospital, led Miss Nightingale to advocate with so much energy and 
success the view which may be embodied in the two following rules : 

fixed establishments, can be 'paralleled by many other instances. A case full of instruction for 
the army surgeon was recorded 100 years ago by Brocklesby, physician to the army in 1764.* 

" In October 1758, a greater number of sick were landed out of the transports on the Isle of 
Wight, than all the spare out-houses, barns, and empty cottages which could be procured for 
money or the sake of humanity at Newport, were capable of containing. In this distress, some 
gentlemen of the hospital proposed to erect a temporary shed, with deal boards, upon the open 
forest, and to have it thatched over with a coat of new straw, thick enough to keep out wind 
and rain, and capacious enough to hold 120 patients or upwards ; for doing which, and the use 
of the boards, the country workman exacted forty pounds. Although the hovel was finished in 
a fashion the most slovenly, and apparently inadequate to the end proposed, upon trial it was 
found that, notwithstanding much extraordinary cold, as well as moisture, which the sick there 
lodged had suffered, remarkably fewer died of the same diseases, though treated with the same 
medicines and the same general regimen, than died anywhere else ; and all the convalescents 
recovered much sooner than they did in any of the warmer and closer huts and barns hired 
round Newport, where fires, and apparently better accommodations of every sort, could be pro- 
vided for them." (Pp. 66, 67.) 

He gives another instance afterwards. 

In making these rough sheds with wattle, Brocklesby incidentally mentions two points of im- 
portance : 1. The removing from time to time the ground from the surface, as it gets impreg- 
nated with all sorts of things. 2. The building of a large entrance porch, sheltered over head 
(but not at the sides ?), into which the convalescent men can creep, to get as much as possible 
into the open air, and also to eat their meals in it. 

Another old army surgeon f records an analogous case. Donald Monro says, that Dr Hume 
told him, that in 1755, some of the men-of-war carried out to North America a malignant jail 
fever, brought by impressed men. The fever continued to spread while at sea ; but at Halifax, 
the sick "were lodged in tents, or in very old shattered bouses that admitted the air very 
freely, which put a sudden and effectual stop to this disorder." 

The same facts were before clearly pointed out by Pringle, who witnessed the loss occurring 
in military hospitals when spotted typhus once gained a footing ; and they were also fully 
understood by Sir James M 'Grigor in the Peninsular war. As far as spotted typhus is con- 
cerned, no evidence is necessary to convince us that patients must be treated with an absolutely 
unlimited supply of air ; and with respect to some other diseases, the remarkable experience of 
the Austrian army surgeons for the last ten years shows that the same rule applies to typhoid 
fever, smallpox, pyaemia, hospital gangrene, and wounds. Since 1854, the sick of the Austrian 
army have been largely treated, during eight or nine months every year, in well ventilated tents 
in preference to fixed hospitals. The result has been most remarkable ; disease was prevented 
from spreading, and patients got well much more rapidly than in the apparently more comfort- 
able permanent hospitals. For particulars, the Report on Hygiene by the author, in the Army 
Medical Report for 1862, can be referred to ; some of the most important facts are given under 
the head of Field Hospitals in War. 

An analogous experience has led some of our best surgeons (Mr Paget, for example) to 
believe that in pysemia a patient should be treated almost in the open air. 

In yellow fever the same rule holds good ; and to show how early this was appreciated, I 
subjoin a quotation from Lind. 

Lind J quotes from "a very sensible man, who resided long in Jamaica." 

" I have often observed the poor seamen in the merchant service to recover from the yellow 
fever solely by having the benefit of a free and constant admission of the cool sea air into a 
ship anchored at a distance from the shore, where they lay utterly destitute of every assistance 
in sickness, and even of common necessaries, having nothing but cold water to drink, and not 
so much as a bed to lie upon ; while gentlemen newly arrived from England, by being shut up 
in small, close, suffocating chambers at Kingston or Port- Royal, expired, with their whole mass 
of blood dissolved, flowing from every pore the stifling heat of their room having produced a 
state of universal putrefaction in the body, even before death." 



* Economical and Medical Observations from the year 1758 to 1763, by R. Brocklesby, 1764. 
t Donald Monro. Vol. i. p. 269. % On Diseases of Europeans in Hot Climates, p. 215. 



HOSPITALS. 311 

1. The sick should be distributed over as large an area as possible, and 
each sick man should be as far removed as possible from his neighbour. 

2. The sick should be placed in small detached and perfectly ventilated 
buildings, so that there is no great number of persons in one building, and 
there shall be no possibility of the polluted air of one ward passing into 
another. 

How is this perfect Purity of Air to be secured ? 

This is a matter partly of construction, partly of superintendence. 

(a.) There should be detached buildings, so disposed as to get the freest 
air and the greatest light. They should be at considerable distances apart, so 
that 1000 sick should be spread like a village; and in the wards, each man 
ought to have not less than 100, if possible 120, feet of superficial, and from 
1500 to 2000 feet of cubic space. With detached buildings, the size of an 
hospital, as pointed out by Miss Nightingale, is dependent merely on the faci- 
lity of administration. When the hospitals consist of a single building, the 
smallest hospitals are the best. 

(&.) The ventilation should be natural, i.e., dependent on the movement 
of the outer air, and on inequalities of weight of the external and internal 
air. The reason of this is, that a much more efficient ventilation can be 
obtained at a cheaper cost than by any artificial means. Also, by means of 
open doors and windows, we can obtain at any moment any amount of venti- 
lation in a special ward, whereas local alterations of this kind are not possible 
in any artificial system. The amount of air, also, which any artificial system 
can cheaply give, is comparatively limited. The amount of air should be 
limited only by the necessity of not allowing its movement to be too per- 
ceptible. 

The best arrangements for natural ventilation for hospitals appear to me to 
be these 1st, Opposite windows reaching nearly to the ceiling, on the sides 
of a ward (not wider than 24 feet, and containing only two rows of beds), and 
a large end window. 2d, Additional openings, to secure, as far as possible, a 
vertical movement of the air from below upwards ; and this, I believe, will be 
best accomplished as follows : * 

A tube opening at once to the external air should run transversely along 
the floor of the ward to each bed, and should end in a box placed under the 
bed, and provided with openings at the top and sides, which can be more or 
less closed. In the box, coils of hot-water pipes should be introduced to 
warm the air when necessary. The area of the tube should be not less than 
72 square inches to each bed ; and the area of the openings in the box at 
least four times larger. The fresh air, warmed to any degree, and moistened, 
if necessary, by placing wet cloths in the box, or medicated by placing chlo- 
rine, iodine, or other substances, will then pass under each bed, and ventilate 
that space so often left unaired ; and then, ascending round the sides of the 
bed, will at once dilute and carry up the products of respiration and transpira- 
tion to the ceiling. It would, I presume, be a simple matter so to arrange 
the hot-water pipes as to be able to cut off all or some of the pipes under a 
particular bed from the hot-water current if desired, and so to give a fever 
patient air of any temperature, from cold to hot, desired by the physician. In 
the low and exhausted stages of fever warm air is often desirable. By this 
simple plan, it seems to me we could deal more effectually with the atmo- 
sphere round our patients, as to warmth, dryness, humidity, and medication, 

* A plan similar to this has been devised by Dr S. Hale, and adopted in some of the Aus- 
tralian hospitals. It is an excellent arrangement,, but seems rather unnecessarily complicated 
by taking the air under the floor, and elevating the beds on a dais. 



312 HABITATIONS. 

than by any other. At the same time, the open fireplace and chimney, and 
the open doors and windows, are preserved. 

For the exit of the foul air, channels in the ridge should be provided, 
warmed by gas if possible, as pointed out in the chapter on VENTILATION. 

To facilitate this system of ventilation, it is desirable to have the buildings 
one storied only ; but it can be applied with two stories. Only then the dis- 
charge tubes must be placed at the sides, and must run up in the thickness of 
the walls. 

(c.) The strictest rules should be laid down with regard to the immediate 
removal from the wards of all excreta, dirty dressings, foul linen, &c. 

Nothing that can possibly give off anything to the air should be allowed to 
remain a single moment. Dressings of foul wounds should be sprinkled with 
deodorants, and charcoal bags suspended round the bed. 

(d.) The walls should be of impermeable material. Cements of different 
kinds are now used, especially Parian ; but it may be suggested whether 
large slabs of properly coloured tiles, joined by a good cement, would not be 
better. Ceilings should be either cemented or frequently limewashed. Great 
care should be taken with the floors. On the whole, good oak laid on 
concrete seems the best material ; but the joining should be perfect, so that 
no fluid may pass through and collect below the floor. Possibly it might be 
well to cover the floor with a good oil-cloth, or material of the like kind, 
which would prevent substances from sinking into the boards, and would 
lessen the necessity of washing the floors, but might be itself removed, and 
frequently washed. The practice of waxing and dry-rubbing the floors, and 
other similar plans, is intended to answer the same purpose. 

(e.) The furniture in a ward should be reduced to the minimum; and, as 
far as possible, everything should be of iron. The bedding should also be 
reduced in size, as much as it can be. Thick mattresses should be discarded, 
and thin mattresses, made easy and comfortable by being placed on springs, 
employed. The material for mattresses should be horse-hair, or coir fibre, 
which, on the whole, are least absorbent. Straw, which absorbs very little, 
is bulky, and is said to be cold. All flock and woollen mattresses should be 
discarded. Blankets and coverlets should be white or yellowish in colour, 
and should be frequently thoroughly aired, fumigated, and washed. 

(/.) The arrangement of the water-closets and urinals is a matter of the 
greatest moment. Every ward should have a urinal, so that the common 
practice of retaining urine in the utensils may be discontinued. If the urine 
is kept for medical inspection, it should be in closed vessels. The removal 
of excreta must be by water. In hospitals, nothing else can be depended 
upon, as regards certainty and rapidity. The best arrangement for closets is 
not the handle and plug, which very feeble patients will not lift ; but a self- 
acting water supply connected with the door, and flowing when it is opened. 
This plan is better than the self-acting spring seat, which is not always easily 
depressed by a thin patient ; and also, by leaving the door open, it gives us 
the means of pouring in any quantity of water, and of thoroughly flushing the 
pan and pipe. The closets are best arranged in nearly detached lobbies, at 
one end of the ward, and separated from it by a thorough cross ventilation, as 
shown in the plan afterwards given, which is copied from Miss Nightingale's 
work. 

In this way, provided the site of the hospital is originally well chosen, 
perfect purity of air can be obtained, and the first requisite of a good hospital 
is secured. 

The warming of the air of Hospitals is discussed in the chapter on 
WARMING. 



HOSPITALS. 313 

Next to the supply of pure air, and to the measures for preventing con- 
tamination (which embrace construction, ventilation, cleanliness, and latrine 
arrangements), come the arrangements for medical treatment. 

Medical treatment includes : 

1. The Supply of Food. The diet of the sick is now becoming a matter of 
scientific precision ; and it is probable that every year greater and greater im- 
portance will be attached to it. Hence, the necessity of a perfect central 
kitchen, and of means for the rapid supply of food at all times. There is 
more difficulty in doing this than at first appears, as the central kitchen can- 
not supply everything ; and yet, there must be no cooking in the wards, or 
even near them, as the time of the attendants should be occupied in other 
ways. Probably, the best arrangement is to have hot closets close to the 
wards, where the food sent from the kitchen can be kept warm, and ready for 
use at all hours of the day and night. 

2. The Supply of Water. Hot and cold water must be supplied every- 
where, and baths of all kinds should be available. The supply of water for 
all purposes should be 40 or 50 gallons per head daily. (See p. 3.) 

3. The Supply of Drugs and Apparatus. The chief point is to economise 
the time of attendants, and to enable drugs and apparatus to be procured with- 
out delay when needed. 

4. The Nursing and Attendance, including the Supply of Glean Linen, fyc. 
The time and labour of the attendants should be expended, as far as possible, 
in nursing, and not in other duties. Every contrivance to save labour and 
cleaning should therefore be employed. Lifts, shafts, tramways, and speaking- 
tubes to economise time ; wards arranged so as to allow the attendants a view 
of every patient ; wards not too large nor too small, for Miss Nightingale 
has conclusively shown that wards of from 20 to 32 beds are best suited for 
economy of service. 

5. Means of Open-Air Exercise for Patients. This ought properly to be 
considered as medical treatment. As soon as a patient can get out of his ward 
into the open air he should do so ; therefore, open verandahs on the sunny 
sides of the wards, and sheltered gardens, are most important. For the same 
reason hospitals of one story are best,* as the patients easily get out ; if of two 
stories the stairs should be shallow. 

6. In addition to all these, the supply of air medicated with gases, or fine 
powders, or various amounts of watery vapour, is a mode of treatment which 
is sure to become more common in certain diseases, and special wards will 

have to be provided for these remedies. 



The parts of a military hospital are 

Patients' Rooms, Wards, and Day-rooms, if possible ; the wards of two 
sizes ; large, i.e., from 20 to 32 beds ; and small, for one or two patients. It 
is desirable to have the small wards not close to the large ones, but at some 
little distance. Attached to the wards are attendants' rooms, scullery, bath and 
ablution rooms, small store-room, urinal, closets (one seat to every eight men). 

Operating-room Dead-house Administration. Surgeons' rooms ; case- 
book and instrument room ; offices and officers' rooms. 



* I had never properly estimated the importance of patients getting into the air, and the 
desirability of one-storied buildings for this purpose, till I served at Renkioi in Turkey during 
the Crimean War. The hospital was composed of one-storied wooden houses connected by an 
open corridor. As soon as a man could crawl he always got into the corridor or between the 
houses, and the good effects were manifest. Some of the medical officers had their patients' 
beds carried out into the corridor when the men could not walk. In the winter greatcoats were 
provided for the men to put on, and they were then encouraged to go into the corridor. 



314 HABITATIONS. 

Pharmacy. Dispensary; store-room; dispenser's room. 

Culinary. Store-room ; wine and beer room ; larder and meat room ; 
kitchen ; room for arranging diets ; scullery ; cook's room. 

Washing. Wash-house; dirty linen store ; fumigating-room; cleaning-room 
for mattresses. 

Steward's Department. Offices ; furniture, linen, utensil, and pack stores ; 
rooms for cleaning. 

The amount of storage room is, for an hospital of 100 sick 



o / 

Bedding and store = 200 square feet. 



Clothing store =100 
Utensil store = 160-200 
Provision store =100 



Fuel store =250 square feet. 

Foul linen store = 120 ,, 
Pack store = 200 

(In military hospitals.) 



SUB-SECTION II. MILITARY HOSPITALS. 
Regulations. 

Hospital space is to be provided for 10 per cent, of the force. Lately, since 
the health of the army has been so much improved on home service, it has 
been proposed to reduce it to 7 per cent., but it would appear desirable always 
to have a large hospital space for emergencies and for war. 

The Director-General is consulted when a fresh hospital is built (p. 79). 

The Inspectors and Deputy-Inspectors of Hospitals are ordered to inspect 
the drainage, ventilation, water supply, water-closets, latrines, urinals, and sinks 
of every hospital, and to see that the warming and lighting are sufficient (p. 29), 
also that the number in hospital is not over regulation (p. 4) ; that the excreta 
of the sick are promptly removed from the wards ; that cleanliness, cooking, 
&c., are properly attended to ; and that the vicinity of the hospital is in good 
condition, and the hospital itself in good repair. 

In general hospitals a sanitary officer is to be appointed ; in regimental 
hospitals the surgeon or assistant-surgeon is the sanitary officer, and the duties 
of these officers as to inspection is explicitly laid down (p. 39). 

If any building is selected as a temporary hospital, the sanitary officer, or 
medical officer in charge, is ordered to inspect it, and to recommend such 
alterations as are necessary (p. 39). 

Convalescent wards are to be provided when practicable (p. 40). 

In various other places hospitals are referred to in the same sense as in the 
above extracts. 

Military hospitals are either regimental or general. In the former case the 
medical officer is in charge of the sick of his own corps ; in the latter, the 
sick of many regiments are received, and are treated by medical officers who 
are usually on the staff, or not doing duty with regiments. 

The great improvements in military hospitals which have been made of 
late years are entirely owing to Miss Nightingale and the Barrack Commis- 
sioners (Dr Sutherland and Captain Galton). The old hospitals are gradually 
being altered as far as they can be, and all new hospitals are constructed on a 
certain plan. 

Condensed into the shortest space, the present rules of construction of mili- 
tary hospitals are as follows : 

The hospitals are to be formed by detached buildings, or pavilions arranged 
in line or side by side, and, in the last case, to be separated by spaces equal 
in width to double the height of the pavilion. The pavilions to be so dis- 
posed as to get most air and light ; to be connected by a corridor with thorough 
cross and roof ventilation. No sunk basement to be under the wards except 



HOSPITALS. 



315 



to isolate them from the soil, and such basement to be arched, drained, and 
ventilated.* 

Each pavilion for the sick to have only two floors, on account of ease of 
ventilation, economy of service, and facility for sick men getting into the open 
air. If possible, one floor is better. Inside staircases, if used, to be large and 
ventilated separately and thoroughly. 

Each floor to have one ward, to hold from 20 to 32 patients, t the wards to 
contain nothing but the sick and the necessary ward offices. In addition, 
small wards (one or two patients) for special cases, to be provided off the stair- 
case, or, what is better, located at a distance. 



1 






A. Ward. 



Fig. 84. Ward for 20 Ward-beds. 

D. Water-closet and Ward-sink. 



B. Nurse's room, with Ward- window. 
c. Scullery. 



E. Bath-room and Ablution-room. 
p. Ventilated lobbies. 



Each bed to have from 87 to 110 feet of superficial space (viz., for strict 
regulation, 12 feet in the width of a ward of 

24 feet, and 7 '2 5 feet in its length =87 
square feet), and 1500 to 2000 cubic space. 
The Medical Regulations fix 1200 of cubic 
space. A ward to have only two rows of 
beds 20 patients should be 80 feet long, 

25 or 26 broad, &nd 15 or 16 high. But as 
the Regulations give only 1200 cubic feet, a 
ward for 20 men is 72J feet long, 24 wide, 
and 14 high. 

One window for every two beds, each window to be about 10 feet high, to 




Fig. 85. 
Section of Ward to show the Bed. 






Fig. 86. --Drawing to show Beds and Windows. 
be double, or of plate-glass, to open near the ceiling. The walls to be of im- 

* See "Notes on Hospitals," 3d edition, 1863, p. 56, et seq.; and "Barrack Improvement 
Report," p. 175, et seq.; the text is a condensation of these two. 



f Miss Nightingale has shown that these are the limits of size for the common wards, on 
account of ease of superintendence and attendance, economy of labour, ventilation, and com- 
fort. Each pavilion, if two storied, will then hold from 40 to 64 patients. 



316 



HABITATIONS. 



permeable material, so as to be non-absorbent and easily washed. The floor 
to be of dense wood (oak preferred), the joints to be perfectly closed with 
impermeable cement ; not to be scoured ; to be kept clean by waxing and 
rubbing. A nurse's room and scullery opposite, to be at one end of the ward ; 
the apparatus for washing, and as far as right for ward cooking, to be in the 
scullery. At the other end of the ward two projecting chambers, and be- 




' 

& 

!-" 

03 <u 



II 

O'&b 



II 

J I 

r 



tween them a large end window. One chamber to contain bath-room and 
lavatory table ; one basin to 6 men, or four for 20. The other chamber to 
contain one closet for every 10 men (or under), and a sink. It would be well 
to add an urinal, for which there is room in one corner, as shown in Miss 
Nightingale's plan. The closet pans are usually of the syphon form, and of 
earthenware. 



.HOSPITALS. 



317 



The ventilation to be by windows, doors, open fireplaces; inlets placed 
above the men's heads, and outlet-shafts at the side properly arranged with 
respect to inlets. (For construction and size see Ventilation and Barracks.) 

The supply of water to be at least 25 gallons per head, independent of the 
laundry. 

The warming to be by radiation in great measure, in part by warm air pro- 
ceeding from an air-chamber (see Warming). 

No drain to pass under a building; all pipes from sinks, lavatories, &c., 
to be in the outer and not the inner walls ; all the drains to be ventilated. 
At the Herbert Hospital "the ward drainage is discharged into vertical 
drain-pipes in the outer walls, which drain-pipes are carried from a trap in the 
main drain below, straight up above the roof of the building, where they are 
left open to the air. A box of charcoal is placed over the upper opening."* 




Fig. 88. Lariboisiere Hospital at Paris. 



The kitchen to be placed away from the wards, its walls and ceilings to be 
cemented. The cooking must be of two kinds ordinary diets and extras. 

The foul linen to be at once removed from the wards, and in large hospitals 
this is best done by a shaft opening above, not into the ward, but into the 
staircase, or a well-ventilated passage, and below into a small closet from 



* Notes on Hospitals, p. 84. 



318 



HABITATIONS. 



which the linen should be frequently removed to the dirty linen store. The 
laundry must be detached, never under the hospital. 

The general principle of construction is seen in the three cuts (taken from 
Miss Nightingale's work), showing the Lariboisiere Hospital at Paris, which 
circumstances have made the type of this system, and the military hospitals at 
Woolwich and Malta.* 




The Herbert Hospital at Woolwich consists of four double and three single 
pavilions of two floors each, all raised on basements. There is a convalescents' 
day-room in the centre pavilion. The administration is in a separate block in 
front. The axis of the wards is a little to the east of north. There is a 
corridor in the basement, through which the food, medicines, coals, &c., are 



* In Miss Nightingale's work, and in an article by Dr Aitken (Brit, and For. Med. Chir. 
Review, 1860), will be found plans of small and large hospitals on the pavilion system. 



HOSPITALS. 



319 



conveyed, and then, by a series of lifts, elevated to the wards. The terraces 
on the corridor afford easy means of open-air exercise for the patients in the 
upper ward. The wards are warmed by two central open fireplaces, with 
descending flues, round which are air passages, so that the entering air is 
warmed. The floors are iron beams, filled in with concrete, and covered with 
oak boarding. 




sale ' of Feet 



Fig. 90. Ground Plan of the Herbert Hospital, Woolwich (from Miss Nightingale's 

book). 

Such, then, are the general principles of construction and administration as 
applied in military hospitals at home. 

As another illustration of the same principles of construction, the proposed 
General Military Hospital at Valetta may be given. 

Hospitals in the Tropics. 

The Barrack and Hospital Commission, in carrying out the plans of the 
Royal Indian Sanitary Commission, suggest* for each sick man 

Superficial area = 100 square feet, up to 120 in unhealthy districts. 
Cubical space = 1500 feet, or, in unhealthy districts, 2000 feet. 

It is also directed that hospitals should consist of two divisions 1st, for 
sick ; and, 2d, for convalescents this latter division to hold 25 per cent, of 
the total hospital inmates. 

Each hospital is to be built in blocks, to consist of two floors, the sick and 
convalescents to sleep on the upper floors only ; each block to hold only 20 to 
24 beds. 

The principles and details are, in fact, identical with those already ordered 
for the home stations. 

These plans will effect a great change in the hospital accommodation in 
India. The plan now adopted there is shown in drawing (fig. 91), which 



Op. dt. p. 27. 



320 



HABITATIONS. 



represents half of a European hospital on the Bengal standard plan. It is 
very similar to the barrack, and consists of a central hall or ward, and two 




Fig. 91. Bengal Standard Plan for a European Hospital. 

verandahs (inner and outer). The centre part is the administration and offices. 
The several blocks are arranged en echelon. 



CHAPTER X. 
SEWEKAGE. 

METHODS OF REMOVING SEWAGE MATTERS. 

THE absolute necessity of removing from our dwellings as rapidly as possible 
the solid and fluid excretions of men and animals will not be disputed. It is 
highly probable that to barbarous and inefficient modes of removing excreta 
we must partly trace the great prevalence of disease in the middle ages, and 
there is no doubt that many of the diseases now prevailing in our large towns 
are owing to the same cause. (See AIR.) 

When men live in thinly-populated countries, following, as they will then 
do, an agricultural or nomade life, they will not experience the consequences 
of insufficient removal of excreta. The sewage matter returns at once to that 
great deodoriser, the soil, and fertilising it, becomes a benefit to man, and not 
a danger. It is only when men collect in communities that the disposal of 
excreta becomes a matter literally of life and death, and before it can be 
settled, the utmost skill and energy of a people may be taxed. 

The question of the proper mode of disposal of sewage has been somewhat 
perplexed by not keeping apart two separate considerations. The object of 
the physician is to remove as rapidly as possible all excreta from dwellings, 
so that the air shall not be made impure. The agriculturist wishes to obtain 
from the sewage its fertilising powers. It is not easy to satisfy both parties, 
but it will probably be conceded that safety is the first thing to be sought, 
and that profit must come afterwards. 

There are only two modes of removing sewage from dwellings. It must be 
washed away by water, or it must be carried or carted away to such a dis- 
tance as to be innocuous, or partly washed away and partly carried by hand. 
It must not lie about houses, or be buried in pits, which is only one degree 
better, if, indeed, it is better. 

The quantity of excreta to be removed may be assumed, taking all ages into 
account, to be at least 2 \ ounces of faecal and 40 ounces of urinary matter. A 
population of 1000 persons will therefore pass daily 156 R> of solids and 250 
gallons of urine ; or, in a year, 25 tons of solids and 91,250 gallons or 14,646 
cubic feet of urine. If sewers are employed, this is diluted greatly with water. 

SECTION I. 
REMOVAL BY WATER THROUGH SEWERS WET METHOD. 

If the supply of water be sufficient, and if sewers are properly constructed, this 
is by far the readiest and most inexpensive way of disposing of the excretions. 

x 



322 SEWERAGE. 

The sewage matter is at once diluted with water, and washed away to a dis- 
tance. On the other hand, if sewers are badly made, and if the amount of 
water be insufficient, they are worse than useless, as they have the appearance 
of efficiency without the reality. 

In order that sewers may be efficient, they must be well constructed, have 
a proper fall and water supply, and be properly ventilated. If there be 
enough water, and if the rain-fall be great, they should not be used for carry- 
ing off surface water, especially in India, where the rains are so heavy that 
no sewers could be large enough for this. They must never open into the 
basement of a house, as no traps will prevent the gases from rising into 
the warmer atmosphere of a dwelling house ; but they should open into de- 
tached or .semi-detached buildings, with good ventilation in the connecting 
passage. 

If these points are not attended to, they become worse than the 'old 
cesspits, the gases from which escaped at any rate into the free atmo- 
sphere ; whereas in sewers the gases are often confined in a small space, and 
press with a force great enough to throw back the atmosphere through all 
openings. 

Size and Shape of Sewers. A convenient division is into house drains and 
street drains. The former are now almost invariably made of well-glazed 
round earthenware pipes the latter of good brick, well set and cemented, 
and of the form of an egg, with the small end downwards. The best size for 
circular house drains is considered to be 4 to 6 inches diameter for closet and 
sink drains, up to 15 inches diameter for the larger house drains, which 
should never be smaller than 6 inches. They ought not to be more than 
two-thirds full. It is generally considered that the size of the street or main 
drains should be enough to allow a man to creep through, but some engineers 
consider this unnecessary. The general opinion, however, is in favour of 
making them this size.* In Paris the main sewers are made with paths on 
each side, just above the stream ; a tramway runs on one side which carries a 
machine, which can at once clear the bottom of the sewer ; the entrance of 
each house drain is marked by a porcelain plate bearing a number ; the owner 
of the house pays a small sum (3 francs) annually to have his house drain 
kept clean. 

Fall and Velocity of Current. For pipe house drains engineers usually 
give a fall of 1 in 48 ; for street drains the fall is much less from 1 in 50 to 
1 in 300, or even less. The fall depends on the size. Mr Wicksteed gives 
the following table to show the amount of fall for different sizes. If it be 
admitted that a velocity of about 220 feet per minute is the best for house 
drains, and 180 feet per minute for the larger street drains, the fall required 
would be, in the first case, from 1 in 65 to 1 in 87, and, in the second case, 1 
in 244 or 1 in 784, according to the size of the drain. Occasionally, with a 
good supply of water, and when well made, sewers have been kept clear with 
scarcely any fall, but it is hazardous to trust to this. 



* An immense amount of discussion has taken place as to whether it would not be better to 
have the main sewers of circular pipe drains of 18 inches diameter, instead of building them of 
brick. The Reports of the General Board of Health were in favour of such a plan, but the very 
long discussion at the Institute of Civil Engineers (1849 and 1850) showed that the opinions of 
engineers were opposed to this plan. Still it has acted well in some cases. At Alnwick, in 
Northumberland, it is stated (" Suggestions for Sanitary Works in India," Blue-Book, 1864, p. 
6), that a pipe of 18 inches diameter, with a fall of 1 in 400, serves a town of 7000 inhabitants, with 
1400 water-closets. The supply of water is 15,000 gallons daily, or 21 gallons per head. In 
other places, however, the pipe main drains have been found so defective, so liable to breakage 
and clogging, that they have been taken up. On the whole, the opinion of the majority of 
engineers is at present opposed to them. 



VENTILATION OF SEWERS. 



323 



Diameter. 

4 inches 

6 

8 

9 

10 
15 
18 
21 
24 
30 
36 
48 



Sewers. 

Velocity 

in feet per 

minute. 

240 
220 
220 
220 
210 
180 
180 
180 
180 
180 
180 
180 



Gradient 
required. 



1 i 


n 36 


1 


, 65 


1 


, 87 


1 


, 98 


1 


,119 


1 


,244 


1 


,294 


1 


,343 


1 


,392 


1 


,490 


1 


,588 


1 


,784 



Calculation of the Discharge from Sewers, 

Sewers. Several formulae have been given, of which the following is the 
most simple ; it is also fairly correct. 

Ascertain the hydraulic mean depth when the sewage is flowing, and the 
amount of fall in feet per mile. The hydraulic mean depth is ^th the diameter 
if the pipe is running full; if the pipe is not full, it is the section area 
divided by the wetted perimeter. The wetted perimeter is that part of the 
circle of the pipe wetted by the fluid. The fall in feet per mile is easily 
obtained, as the fall in 50 or 100 or 200 feet can be measured, and the fall 
per mile calculated (5280 feet = 1 mile). Having got these numbers, mul- 
tiply the hydraulic mean depth by twice the fall in feet per mile, and take out 
the square root. Multiply this by 55, and the result by the section area.* 
The number obtained gives the amount in cubic feet per minute. 

Laying and Connection of Sewers. 

The greatest care is necessary in the construction, so that there shall be no 
breakage ; pipe sewers must rest on a hard, well-formed bed ; the fall should 
be as regular as possible without sudden differences of level ; if there is a 
great difference of level, a manhole must be provided. The manhole is now 
often provided with a sliding iron cover to prevent passage of sewer air ; or 
by the side of the manhole a ventilating chamber is placed, into which the 
sewer air passes, after having first passed through horizontal or vertical char- 
coal trays. At junctions of sewers right angles must be avoided, and curves 



* The formula is V = 55 x ( VD x 2F) x A. 

V = velocity in cubic feet per minute. 

D = hydraulic mean depth. 

F = fall in feet per mile. 

A = section area. 
Mr Hawkesley's formula is 



77 / 
V 



V = velocity in yards per second. 
I ~ length of pipe in yards. 
h = head in inches. 
d = diameter in inches. 
The result must be multiplied by the section area to give the cubic amount. 



x 2 



324 SEWERAGE. 

with a large radius given ; the radius of no curve on a main sewer should be 
less than ten times the cross sectional diameter of the sewer. Traps must be 
inserted at the junction of house and street drains, and the common syphon 
is now usually preferred. The best hydraulic lime must be used for mortar. 

Ventilation and Purification. As gases are largely disengaged, and natu- 
rally rise to the upper end of the sewer, there is a continual danger of their 
passing back into the house in spite of traps ; there must, therefore, be many 
openings into the drain sewers, and especially just where the house drains 
join them, so that there may be no pressure on the trap. House drains should 
be ventilated near the closet by a pipe running up above the house. The best 
mode of ventilating is by pipes running up into the air ; means of aspiration 
by furnaces and chimneys have been proposed, but the openings into a sewer 
are too many for this to act efficiently. The street lamps have been used with 
advantage as pipes. In certain cases the wind blowing through the open out- 
let has forced back the sewer gases into houses, and this is likely to occur 
when the sewer opens above a river or the sea, or if the mouth is left open by 
the ebb of the tide. 

Trays of charcoal (as recommended by Stenhouse) have been used with 
great advantage by Letheby and others to absorb the foetid gases of sewers, 
and in every ventilating pipe there should be one or more trays. Mr Eaw- 
linson now regularly employs them in the sewers of every town he drains. 
The charcoal must be rather small not too thick, and several trays with a 
little charcoal are better than one thick mass. The objection is that the pas- 
sage of the gas is sometimes stopped, and it finds a readier exit elsewhere. It 
should be seen that this is not the case. 

The causes of choking of sewers are 

1. Bad lines and gradients. The information on this point must be 
obtained from the engineer. It should be the first point inquired into when 
a disease connected with sewage prevails. 

2. Imperfect form and workmanship, so that an obstruction is given to the 
flow, from excessive friction ; large, wide, flat sewers are very liable to chok- 
age from this cause. Subsidence of the sewers in loose soils, and fracture, so 
that the contents escape into the surrounding soil. Sewers made of porous 
brick allow the fluids to percolate ; the solids remain and accumulate. 

3. Forcing back of sewage at the outlet by tides or by accumu^tion of 
water from rains. Winds also force back sewer gases. So that the mouth 
of sewers should be protected. 

4. Defective water supply. 

Amount of Water. It has already been stated in the chapter on WATER, 
that to keep sewers clear the amount of water, in addition to rain-fall, must 
be twenty-five gallons per head daily. If the fall is bad, it should be more. 
In addition, flushing, i.e., the sudden passage of large bodies of water into the 
sewers, must be employed. It is, indeed, recommended by those best 
acquainted with the subject that all sewers should be flushed once a-day. 

Composition of Sewage. As found in sewers, the excretory matter is greatly 
diluted, and is largely mixed with other matters which find their way into 
the sewers, especially through the surface drains. Many analyses have been 
made, which agree tolerably closely. In London, where about forty to fifty 
gallons of water per head daily pass into the sewers, the sewage is often not 
more concentrated than some shallow well waters, and drinking water in 
various parts of the world has often been more impure. It is this immense 
degree of dilution which renders the application of sewerage materials to land 
so difficult and unprofitable, so that, according to Mr Lawes, it is impossible 
to look for a good financial return for the outlay expended on works intended 



DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE. 



325 



to apply the sewage to the land.* To get any return an enormous quantity 
of the diluted sewage has to be used ; Lord Essex found that the sewage of 
Watford, with 4000 people, was only sufficient for sixty acres. Used in this 
great proportion, it is, however, very fertilising for the grass crops, and espe- 
cially for Italian rye-grass. The composition is fairly represented in the fol- 
lowing analyses : 

Composition of Sewage Water. t 





Grains per gallon. 




1 


2 


3 


4 


Organic matter (soluble), . 
,, (suspended), 


19-40 
39-10 


41-03 
17 


12-3 ) 
24-37 J 


9-20 


Lime, ..... 


10-13 


14-71 


12-52 


11-25 


Magnesia, .... 


1-42 


1-82 


1-59 


1-35 


Soda, 


4-01 


2-40 


2-41 


1-89 


Potash, 


3-66 


3-57 


3-31 


1-09 


Chloride of Sodium, . 


26-40 


22-61 


34-30 


5-58 


Sulphuric acid, 


5-34 


5-31 


6-40 


3-43 


Phosphoric acid, 


2-63 


5-76 


2-48 


0-64 


Carbonic acid, 
Silica, oxide of iron, oxide of zinc, 


9-01 
6-20 


8-92 
13-55 


11-76 ) 
6-46 j 


4-77 


Ammonia, .... 


7-48 


8-43 


7-88 






134-78 


145-11 


125-78 


39-20 



One ton of London or Rugby sewage contains only from 2 Ib to 3 Ib of solid 
matter (Lawes). 

The amount and composition of the gases evolved from sewage has been 
already given. (See Am, p. 79.) 

Examination of Sewers. In case there is any suspicion of diseases being 
connected with sewage, the examination should be conducted in the order of 
the previous paragraphs, viz., the kind of sewers ; their fall ; the velocity of 
the current in them, and the amount of their discharge, actual (if it can be 
ascertained) and calculated ; their condition as to construction ; ending and 
trapping ; ventilation and amount of water. The facts just given will serve 
as a guide to show if any defect exists in any of these points. 

Disposal of the Sewage Matter. 

The following plans are in use : The sewage runs into a tank, and is then 
removed from time to time ; or it is passed into a river or the sea, or is 
allowed (after settling or treatment with deodorants) to flow over land. 

There is now a strong feeling against sewage passing into a river ; it con- 

* The value of the diluted sewage has been variously calculated ; this has been usually done 
by taking the quantities of ammonia, phosphoric acid, and potash (the three valuable consti- 
tuents of sewage), as given by analysis per ton, and then estimating the value according to the 
market price of these three substances. It is believed, however, that the value is not more 
than 2d. or 4d. per ton, all deductions being made. Some years ago it was calculated by Mr 
Bazalgette that no less than 431,000,000 gallons of water passed daily from the London sewers. 
This included rain water. This will show the immense dilution of the sewage. 

t Way Second Report of Commission on Sewage of Towns, 1861, p. 69, et seq. 



326 SEWERAGE. 

taminates the water which may be used for drinking, and the evidence we 
now have of the effects of impure water makes it imperative that this plan 
should be given up. Besides, the amount of substance of all kinds carried is 
sufficient to silt up the beds of even large streams. It may be considered that 
the disposal in running streams will not long be permitted.* 

It may be carried into the sea if a town be conveniently situated, but then 
it must be carried well out beyond low-water mark, or else the effluvia caused 
by the mixing of the organic matter and sea water will be both a nuisance 
and injurious. It must never be discharged into a tideless sea unless it can 
be thrown into a current which may sweep it away, otherwise it accumulates 
near the shore, and being covered only by shallow water, soon becomes little 
better than a cesspool. 

What is to be done with the diluted sewage in an inland town ? If it were 
strongly fertilising, there would be no difficulty ; but it is not so. It is not 
profitable to apply it to land unless it can be made to pass over the land by 
gravitation. If this can be done, the best plan appears to be to receive it 
into settling reservoirs or trenches, so that the thick viscous parts may subside ; 
to let the thin portions flow over land, and then to mix the thick parts with 
coal refuse, street sweepings, &c., and to cart it away. It will pay the expense 
of carting, but not much more. The trenches are usually made 4 or 5 feet 
deep, 18 inches wide at the bottom, and with slopes of 1 to 1; the sectional 
area of the trenches is from 10 to 20 times greater than the area of the outlet 
of the sewer, so that the sewage flows slowly. Hurdles and wickerwork 
strainers are placed in the trenches, to lessen flow and encourage subsidence. 
In the reservoirs filtering beds have been put, and it has been attempted to 
filter it, both by ascent and descent. On a small scale this answers, I believe, 
but not on a large one ; the filters constantly get clogged. 

The most hygienic proceeding was that adopted at Leicester. The sewage 
water, which averages about 40J gallons per head daily, was received into a 
tank and mixed with lime. The solid matter was so perfectly precipitated 
that the supernatant water had no taste, and could be allowed to pass into 
streams without injury. Unfortunately the thick part left behind has scarcely 
any fertilising power, as the ammonia is lost ; and therefore this method is 
not financially successful. 

When the sewage is allowed to flow over land, it is absorbed in large 
quantities, and so rapid is the deodorisation that frequently no nuance is 
created. Still the power of the soil has a limit, and sometimes the sewage 
water has passed insufficiently purified into streams ; and actions have been 
brought against the authorities of some towns for polluting the streams. It 
appears from the experiments of Lawes and Gilbert,t that the earth removes 
almost the whole of the suspended matters of the sewage, both organic and in- 
organic. Some of the matters in solution are also removed ; for example, the 
ammonia, especially if the sewage does not run through too rapidly, in which 
case a good deal of ammonia may pass off. Some nitrogenous organic matter, 
however, passes often into the drainage water, but usually it has been oxidised 
into nitric acid. Phosphoric acid and potass are both retained to a considerable 
extent ; soda in the next place, magnesia to a less extent, and lime still less. 

The important hygienic point appears to be that the nitrogenous organic 
matter was usually either retained in the soil, or was oxidised, so that there 
was no further danger of putrescency. If there is at any time more sewage 
than the land can receive, deodorants must be employed. 

* See Second Report of the Commission appointed to inquire into the best mode of Distribut- 
ing the Sewage of Towns. Blue- Book, 1861. 
f" Third Report of the Commission appointed to inquire into the Sewage of Towns, 1865, p. 47. 



SEWERAGE. 327 

In some cases sewage has been applied to land for years without any bad effects 
to those living near; but there are a few instances to the contrary, and more evi- 
dence is necessary on this point (see page 104; cases of Whitby and Clouston). 
It is possible that the nature of the soil, the amount of sewage, and the mode 
of its application, may cause differences in the amount of emanations, or the 
emanations may not drift in the direction of the houses. At any rate, it is 
wise not to apply the sewage on lands near houses. 

As the great dilution of sewage is the main cause of the financial failures, it 
has been proposed to divert the surface water and rain-fall from the sewers, 
and convey it by separate channels. Mr Ward's phrase, " the rain to the 
river, the sewage to the soil," has become celebrated, but it must be remem- 
bered that the rain is the great purifier of sewers ; without it there are few 
which would not get clogged, unless they are well made and are well supplied 
with water. 

Form of Water-Closets. On this point little need be said ; many patents 
have been taken out, but practically they almost all resolve themselves into 
some modification of the syphon. A simple syphon, with a good flow of 
water (10 gallons), is as good as anything, and it is easily cleaned if it gets out 
of order. Mr Jennings has patented a syphon with a plug which would seem 
to render reflux of gas almost impossible. The flow of water can be connected 
with a handle, the seat, or the door of the closet. The latter is the most 
certain plan of insuring that water in sufficient amount is poured in. In 
barracks, water latrines are used instead of closets (see BARRACKS, p. 291). 

SECTION II. 
REMOVAL IN SUBSTANCE DRY METHOD. 

The use of sewers, and removal by water, is in many cases impracticable. 
A fall cannot be obtained ; or there is insufficient water ; or the severity of 
the climate freezes the water for months in the year, and removal by water 
cannot be attempted. Then either the excreta will accumulate about houses, 
or must be removed in substance daily or periodically. Even when water is 
abundant, and sewers can be made, many agriculturists are in favour of the 
dry system, as giving a more valuable fertilising product ; and various plans 
are in use. 

In some, the solid and liquid excreta pass into boxes or tanks, which are 
emptied daily, and the sewage is at once applied to land without further 
treatment. This system is profitable ; it is carried out in England in some 
barracks ; and Liebig has given an account of the barracks at Baden, where 
the excreta of about 8000 men are removed daily, and have converted the 
sandy wastes about Eastadt and Carlsruhe into fertile corn-fields. The 
annual profit was in 1858, L.680. If this can be done effectually, it is the 
best plan ; it should not be applied in the immediate neighbourhood of dwell- 
ings, and the Barrack Commissioners have ordered that it shall not be nearer 
barracks than 500 yards. 

In other cases, the soil being removed daily, or from time to time, is taken 
to a manufactory, and there subjected to manipulations which convert it into 
a manure. 

Under the term " Poudrette," manufactories of this kind have been long 
carried on in France, though they are said not to be very profitable". At 
present, however, a portion of the nitrogen of the urea is converted into 
ammonia, and is united with sulphuric acid, and conies into the market as 
sulphate. In England, also, there are several manufactories, among others, 



328 SEWERAGE. 

the " Patent Manure Eureka Company," who reduce the soil to one-seventh 
of its "bulk by the application of heat, and obtain a saleable and good manure. 

There have been great discussions as to the salubrity of the French poudrette 
manufactories, and the evidence is, that they are not injurious to the work- 
men or to the neighbourhood, although often incommodious. But the pou- 
drette can take on a kind of fermentation which renders it dangerous, and 
Parent-Duchatelet has recorded two cases of outbreaks of a fatal fever 
(typhoid ?) on board ships loaded with poudrette. 

Very commonly, however, some deodorising substance is mixed with the 
soil before it is removed from the house, and it is then at once applied to 
land without further preparation. Dried surface earth (marly and clayey 
earths are the best, but all may be used) has been strongly recommended for 
this purpose.* Boxes to contain dry earth are now made, which are placed 
above the pan, and, instead of water, the earth is allowed to fall over the soilt 
This plan is the best which can be adopted when water cannot be used, but 
the removal of the soil should be frequent. The plan is attended with far 
more trouble than the removal by water, since the earth must be dried in an 
oven or in the sun, sifted, placed in the box, and the soil removed ; but, on 
the other hand, it gives a product of much higher manurial value. The same 
earth may be redried and used over again even for five times ; the smell of the 
soil is destroyed almost immediately. 

In addition to earth, charcoal has been used ; it is very effectual, but ex- 
pensive. M'DougalTs powders (carbolates of lime and magnesia) have also 
been used, and sprinkled on the soil ; they arrest putrefaction for several days. 

It is now generally believed, in carrying out the " dry system," that it is of 
great importance to separate the urine from the solid discharges. In Denmark 
some of the closets have long been made on this plan ; and it is believed that 
the decomposition of the soil is prevented. In this country, Mr Chesshire, 
of Birmingham, has introduced an " Intercepting Tank." Immediately below 
the closet is placed an iron box, large enough to hold the solid excreta of a 
household for several months ; the water-closet pipe passes in at one corner at 
the top ; at the opposite corner, at the bottom, is an outlet pipe running into 
a sewer or receptacle ; across this corner of the box, and reaching up the 
whole height, is a perforated plate or grating. The box is hermetically 
sealed, and trapped above and below. The result of this is, that the urine 
runs off through the discharge pipe, leaving the solids in the box ; from time to 
time the lid is removed, and the box cleaned out. Decomposition of the solid 
soil is certainly greatly delayed, if not altogether arrested in this way. 

A somewhat similar plan, devised by Mr Lloyd, is in use at Manchester ; 
the receptacle is divided into two parts, so disposed as that one receives ex- 
clusively the solid, and the other the liquid matters. They are each separately 
disinfected and dried by a mixture of cinders and chalk. 

Mr Taylor, of R,omsey,| has also devised an ingenious machine, which in 
part effects the same purpose. Under the seat is a revolving disk or turn- 
table, which is moved after the closet is used ; the soil falling on the disk is 
moved round with it, and by the time the circle is finished, is so dry that it 
can be scraped off into a receptacle, by a plate projecting from the edge of 
the seat. A current of air is allowed to pass through the box in which the 
apparatus is contained. The urine runs off the dish into another receptacle. 

* See especially the papers of the Rev. H. Moule, "Journal of the Agricultural Society," 
No. 1. p. Ill (1863). " National Health and Wealth," 1861 (pamphlet). 

| Mr Moule states the quantity of earth to be one-fifth of a ton per head for twelve months, 
or very nearly 1^ tt>. of earth daily per head. 

J " British Guano," by Francis Taylor, M.R.C.S. 2d ed. 1864. 



SEWEEAGE. 329 

The " dry system" is coming into great use in India, and is being carried 
out there with great attention to detail. The following is a condensation of 
the regulations of the Bengal Government on this point.* It will "be observed 
that only in a country with plenty of labour could such a system be carried 
out. 

The general arrangement of the privy is that given in the standard plan of 
the Bengal Government (1858). It is a series of seats, open at the back, 
where there is an enclosed space for the convenience of the sweepers who 
remove the soil. The height of the seat is 18 inches; a moveable pan 8 
inches in depth, resting on a solid foundation 9 inches high, is placed below, 
so that it exactly fits in under the seat. In rear of the seats is an enclosed 
space where a sweeper is constantly stationed ; directly a pan is used he 
removes it, empties the contents into an iron receptacle, rinses it out, pours 
the rinsings into the receptacle, and replaces the pan, leaving in it 2 inches 
depth of clean water. 

Once a-day the pan is scrubbed inside and out with wood ashes or broken- 
up charcoal, and once a-month is coated with Dhoona (resin). The pan is 
made of enamelled iron, or if this is not procurable, of kiln-dried, glazed 
earthen vessels. 

The urinal is an enamelled iron pan, with an upper iron sloping upwards 
and outwards, so as to extend 1| inch beyond the side of the vessel, to catch 
drippings ; it stands in an iron tray If feet in diameter, filled with broken-up 
charcoal and wood ashes. The urinal is emptied night and morning, and 
scrubbed once a-day with wood ashes and charcoal. A privy should contain 
eight seats, and is calculated for a company of 100 men (one seat to 12 men). 

Three receptacles are provided for each privy, two for the soil and one for 
the urine ; they are kept behind the screen-wall in rear, and the sweeper 
empties everything into them. They measure (apparently, for the dimensions 
are not explicitly given) 3 feet by 8 inches, and 18 inches high. The exact 
size is a matter of no moment, provided they are not too large to be easily 
handled. They are air-tight. 

The faeces and urine being collected in these receptacles, they are removed 
daily in carts provided for the purpose, and are carted away to pits at least 
half a mile from the nearest barrack. Here the receptacles are emptied into 
pits each 10 feet deep, 6 feet in diameter, and 9 feet distant from each other, 
so as to allow a cart to pass. One set of pits is used for soil, one for urine. 
Quicklime is thrown into the first, but not into the second, on account of 
the action of the lime on the urea. One privy pan takes 3 ounces of quick- 
lime, one receptacle 6 ounces, and 20 ounces is thrown into each pit where 
the sewage of a regiment is collected. 

An orderly is appointed to inspect every privy twice daily, and the sweepers 
are placed under his orders. The officer commanding each battery, troop, or 
company, inspects the privies, &c., four times in a month, and reports to the 
officer commanding. 

There can be no doubt of the general excellence of this plan, but some sug- 
gestions may be made. 

Why should all this rich fertilising matter be thrown into pits, which 
become, in fact, cesspools, and though closed up now, may at some future 
time be opened ? Why not apply it to the land at once 1 There is no spot 
in India, even the most sandy plain, where this sewage would not suffice to 
grow any amount of fresh vegetables for soldiers. Use it for soldiers' gardens, 
as all our present experience shows that the disinfecting power of earth is so 

* Madras Medical Journal, November 1863, p. 415. 



330 SEWERAGE. 

great that there is no danger. It might be kept at one-third of a mile from 
the barracks to remove all possible risk. 

Then again, why use lime, which is by no means so good a disinfectant as 
dry earth, and more costly ? And why not, by a simple arrangement like that 
proposed by Mr Moule, allow dry earth to fall into the seat, and thus lessen 
the amount of labour required ? In many colonies it would be impossible to 
command the services of ten men per regiment constantly for this duty alone ; 
and even in India, it may be questioned whether the rise in the price of 
labour which is now going on will long permit such a plan to be continued. 
By the earth closets there would be a great saving of labour, as the pans need 
not be emptied oftener than once a-day.* 

SECTION III. 
MIXED PLAN OF REMOVAL BY HAND AND SEWERS. 

In Paris, and some other continental towns, a mixed system is in operation. 
The receptacle is pierced with holes, through which the urine passes and flows 
away in sewers ; the solid soil is retained in the receptacle, and is periodically 
.removed. The removal is accomplished by taking away and replacing the 
receptacle, or by pumping up the soil by means of a large exhausting syringe and 
hose. Deodorant substances are sometimes mixed with the soil, and the recep- 
tacle is ventilated by a pipe carried up and opening in the free air. In this way 
the chances of clogging of sewers are, it is supposed, almost avoided. 

After the soil has been removed, it is mixed in Paris with lime slaked with 
urine, which would seem by no means a good plan, and is then removed to 
the land. This is called " Chaux animalizee," and in 1863 was sold in Paris 
at 38s. per ton.t 

SECTION IV. 
SEWAGE DEODORANTS AND DISINFECTANTS. 

A very great number of substances have been added to sewage for the pur- 
pose usually of preventing decomposition and retaining the ammoniacal com- 
pounds. In the chapter on Am. (page 82) several of the chief deodorants and 
disinfectants of air were enumerated. Here I shall refer only to those used 
for sewage : 

1. Charcoal which soon, however, gets clogged and loses its power it is 
not nearly so useful when used in this way as in the purification of air. 

* Since the above was written, a paper has been published by Mr Cornish, of Madras (" On 
some Unsolved Problems in Relation to Public Health/' No. 1, Madras, 1864), which sets forth 
in a striking way the advantages of a good system of dry conservancy for India. Mr Cornish has 
contrived a plan of obtaining the solid excreta separate from the urine. The faeces are received 
into a flat saucer-shaped receptacle, which has been soaked in coal tar and then dried, and in 
which some wood ashes are put. The urine does not flow into this vessel, but into an asphalted 
tube, which runs to a reservoir. There is also an urinal placed against the wall, and the urine 
runs through a screen of charcoal and then into an urine i % eservoir outside, which is nearly filled 
with dry earth. The reason of the filtration is to absorb the mucus, and thus to delay decom- 
position. In the Punjab jails, the following system has been arranged by Dr Hathaway 
(Cornish Appendix). These latrines are free from all odour: 

1. No lime cement is used in the masonry. 

2. No cesspools, or reservoirs, or pipes leading out of the latrine or urinary are allowed. 

3. No water is allowed to flush the ground or flooring, which is kept perfectly dry. 

4. The flooring is of earth, made with 4 inches of dry sand over a layer of well-rammed clay. 

5. All refuse is at once removed. 

6. No lime is allowed to be sprinkled. 

f How can our Town Sewage be best Preserved and Utilised ? By J. Edmeston. 1863, p. 3, 



DEODOKANTS AND DISINFECTANTS. 331 

2. Dry earth, especially in marly and clayey soils, the effect is similar to 
charcoal, but it is not so soon clogged, and when redried the same earth can 
be used again. It is dried in a common oven, or in any convenient way. 

3. Quicklime and water added till a deposit occurs, leaving a clear fluid 
above. This is chiefly caused by the lime forming insoluble salts, by union 
with carbonic and phosphoric acids, and mechanically carrying down the sus- 
pended matters. The sulphuretted hydrogen forms sulphuret of calcium, 
which remains in the supernatant fluid. The ammonia is set free. The 
potash salts remain in the liquid. Five-sixths, of the phosphoric acid are in 
the precipitate. No organic matter is precipitated except mechanically. The 
solid deposit has little value as manure. The lime delays, but does not pre- 
vent the subsequent decomposition of the animal vegetable matters, and as the 
sulphuret of calcium easily decomposes, sulphuretted hydrogen is very liable 
to be again set free from the clear fluid. 

The process, though simple and cheap, is by no means perfect. The addi- 
tion of charcoal to the lime does not materially modify the result. 

From 15 to 16 grains per gallon of quicklime are enough for 1 gallon of 
sewage, or 20 cwt. per million gallons. At Leicester 580 tons of quicklime 
were used per annum for 4,700,000 tons of sewage. 

4. Cheap salts of alumina, and then lime, or alum sludge, lime, and waste 
animal charcoal (Manning), or zinc and charcoal (Stothert's process). 

The alumina precipitated by the lime forms a very bulky precipitate, well 
suited to the entanglement of suspended matters. The clearance of the sewage 
is more perfect than with lime alone, but otherwise the process and the objec- 
tions are the same, and the cost is greater. The whole of the phosphoric 
acid is precipitated as phosphate of alumina. To a gallon of sewage were 
added 73| grains of sulphate of alumina, 3^ grains of sulphate of zinc, 73^ 
grains of charcoal, 1 6f grains of quicklime. 

5. Superphosphate of magnesia, and lime water (Blyth's patent). The idea 
was to add a substance which, in addition to deodorising, might be useful as 
a manure, and it was thought that a double phosphate of magnesia and am- 
monia would be thrown down ; but this salt is sufficiently soluble in water, 
especially when the water contains chloride of sodium, to render this expecta- 
tion incorrect. This method has been practically found to be useless, and to 
be more costly than any other plan. 

6. M'Dougall's Patent. Sulphites of lime and magnesia, mixed with pro- 
ducts from tar, impure carbolic (or phenic) acid, forming carbolates of lime and 
magnesia. The fermentation is arrested by both classes of substances. The 
sulphites destroy sulphuretted hydrogen; their action, however, is transient, and 
they themselves are very liable to change ; the tarry products have a greater 
action, which is supposed to be markedly antiseptic. This disinfectant is sold 
in powder and liquid, and must be ranked among the first, if it is not the 
first. The sewage is not precipitated by this process. This is a lime .process 
with improvements. 

7. Perchloride of iron. "When this salt is added to sewage, a precipitate 
of peroxide of iron is caused by the carbonate of ammonia, which forms so 
rapidly in sewage, and carries with it all the suspended matters of the sewage. 
A clear fluid remains above. The sulphuretted hydrogen falls in the precipi- 
tate as sulphuret of iron. 

Both precipitate and supernatant liquid are free from odour. 

This substance has been tried at Croydon and Coventry. From 14 to 29 
grains per gallon of sewage are necessary for London sewage ; for Croydon 
sewage from 5 to 15 grains were necessary. One gallon of liquid perchloride 
was sufficient for 15,000 gallons of sewage (Hofmann and Frankland). 



332 SEWERAGE. 

The perchlorides of iron can be manufactured by dissolving peroxide of iron 
in hydrochloric acid ; the different iron ores, refuse oxide of iron from sul- 
phuric acid works, iron rust in foundries, &c. Another plan is to take 
equivalent proportions of common salt, sulphuric acid, iron rust, and water, 
so that chlorine, when disengaged, shall combine with the iron. A hard, 
yellowish, not very deliquescent substance, containing 26 per cent, of per- 
chloride of iron, is formed, which can be transported to any distance. The 
price, if made in this way, is L.2, 7s. per ton (cost of labour not included) 
in England. 

The perchloride acts both on sulphuretted hydrogen and on sulphides, in 
both cases setting free sulphur. In sewage its ordinary action is on sulphide 
of ammonium. 

Objections have been made to the perchloride, as it contains arsenic ; but 
the amount of this is small, and as it falls with the deposit it is never likely 
to be dangerous. 

8. Bird's powder is in use at Cheltenham and other places ; it contains iron 
and clay, and is said to be useful. 

The chlorides of lime and zinc, the sulphate of zinc, the nitrate of lead, per- 
manganate of potash, and other salts already noticed (p. 84) as used in the 
purification of air, are too expensive to be used on the large scale' for sewage, 
but are very useful on a small scale.* 

General Conclusions. 

Bearing in mind that the problem with which we have to deal is the im- 
mediate and complete removal of excreta from our dwellings, the following 
conclusions seem justified : 

If our opinion is asked regarding the best method to be adopted in a tem- 
perate climate, we should advise removal by water, provided there is water 
enough, good fall, and proper means of disposal of the sewage, and, of course, 
available materials for properly constructing the sewers. All these points 
should be carefully considered. It must be understood, however, that this 
plan renders the sewage comparatively valueless. The employment of 
Chesshire's intercepting tank may be very useful in certain cases where there 
is no outflow for sewage, but where urine could be disposed of. 

If the plan by water cannot be adopted, one of the dry methods must be 
used, and of these the mixing with dried earth is the cheapest and probably 
the best. This requires, however, much greater labour and superintendence ; 
but if the soil is saleable it may repay this. Even if not saleable, it may be 
considered to fairly repay its cost, in the case of barracks, if it is applied to 
soldiers' gardens. In many stations, where water is scarce, this plan, or Mr 
Taylor's revolving turn-table, must be adopted. Only until there is greater 
evidence about the complete deodorisation and innocuousness of the mixed 
soil and earth when retained in houses (especially in the tropics), it would 
be desirable to have the earth closets always external to the houses, and, if 
possible, the soil should be removed daily. 

M'Dougall's carbolates are probably more efficacious than earth, but are not 
so convenient ; next to the carbolates, or equal to them, comes the perchloride 
of iron. Either of these can be safely recommended. For urinals, in order 
to prevent rapid decomposition, the addition of a little carbolic acid will be 
found most useful, and if the urine, after being thus treated, is allowed to flow 
into dry earth, a valuable manure is obtained. 



* For further information, see Dr Hubert Barker's Essay on Deodorisation and Disinfection 
(British Medical Journal, Jan. 1865.) 



CHAPTER XL 
WARMING OF BARRACKS AND HOSPITALS. 

THE heat of the human body can be preserved in two ways : 

1. The heat generated in the body, and which is continually radiating and 
being carried away by moving air, can be retained and economised by clothes. 
If the food be sufficient, and the skin can thus be kept warm, there is 
no doubt that the body can develop and retain its vigour with little exter- 
nal warmth. In fact, provided the degree of external cold be not too great 
(when, however, it may act in part by rendering the procuring of food difficult 
and precarious), it would seem that cold does not imply deficiency of bodily 
health, for some of the most vigorous races inhabit the cold countries. In 
temperate climates there is also a general impression (and such general im- 
pressions are often right), that for healthy adults external cold is invigorating, 
provided food be sufficient, and if the internal warmth of the body is retained 
by clothing. 

2. External heat can be applied to the body either by the heat of the sun 
(the great fountain of all physical force, and vivifier of life), or by artificial 
means, and in all cold countries artificial warming of habitations is Used. 

The points to determine in respect of habitations are 
1st, What degree of artificial warmth should be given ? 
2d f What are the different kinds of warmth, and how are they to be given 1 

SECTION I. 
DEGEEE OF WARMTH. 

For Healthy Persons. There appears no doubt that both infants and old 
persons require much artificial warmth, in addition even to abundant clothes 
and food. The lowering of the external temperature, especially when rapid, 
acts very depressingly on the very young and old ; and when we remember 
the extraordinary vivifying effect of warmth, we cannot be surprised at this.* 

For adult men of the soldier's age, who are properly fed and clothed, it is 
probable that the degree of temperature of the house is not very material, and 
that it is chiefly to be regulated by what is comfortable. Any temperature 
over 48 up to 60 is felt as comfortable, though this is dependent in part on 

* Inanition experiments on animals prove how death may be retarded by applying warmth ; 
and Valentin's experiments on killing animals by coating their skins with an impermeable cement 
show the same thing even more forcibly. Such animals, even when at the point of death, were 
wonderfully resuscitated by warmth, a good hint to us to employ this powerful agent in appro- 
priate cases. 



334 WARMING OF BARRACKS AND HOSPITALS. 

the temperature of the external air. It seems certain that for healthy well- 
clothed and well-fed men we need not give ourselves any great concern about 
the precise degree of warmth. 

For children and aged persons we are not, I believe, prepared to fix any 
exact temperature ; for new-born children a temperature of 65 or 70, or 
even more, may be necessary, and old people bear with benefit a still higher 
warmth.* 

For Sick Persons. The degree of temperature for sick persons is a matter 
of great importance, which requires more investigation than it has received. 
There seems a sort of general rule that the air of a sick-room or hospital 
should be about 60 Fahr., and in most continental hospitals, warmed arti- 
ficially, this is the contract temperature ; but the propriety of this may be 
questioned, t 

There are many diseases greatly benefited by a low temperature, especially 
all those with preternatural heat. It applies, I believe, almost without ex- 
ception (scarlet fever ?) to the febrile cases in the acute stage, that it is desir- 
able to have the temperature of the air as low as 50 or even 45 or 40. 
Cold air moving over the body is a cooling agent of great power, second only, 
if second, to cold affusion, nor is there danger of bad results if the movement 
is not too great. The Austrian experiments on tent hospitals^ show con- 
clusively that even considerable cold is well borne. 

Even in the acute lung aifections this is the case. Pneumonia cases do 
best in cold wards, provided there is no great current of air over them. 

Many cases of phthisis bear cool air, and even transitions of temperature, 
well, provided there be no great movement of air. 

On the other hand, it has appeared to me that chronic heart-diseases with 
lung congestion, emphysema of the lungs, and diseases of the same class, 
require a warm air, and perhaps a moist one. I have noticed that patients 
with these affections, when removed from their own houses with hot rooms to 
the comparatively cool and ventilated wards of a London hospital, were often 
injured. 

With respect to the inflammatory aifections of the throat, larynx, and 
trachea, I have no decided evidence of my own, and have been able to find 
nothing decisive in authors on this point ; but the spasmodic affections of 
both larynx and bronchial tubes seem benefited by warmth. 

In the convalescence, also, from acute diseases, cold is very badly borne ; 
no doubt, the body, after the previous rapid metamorphosis, is in a state very 
susceptible to cold, and, like the body of the infant, resists external influences 
badly. Convalescents from fever must therefore be always kept warm. This 
is probably the reason why, in the Austrian experience, it has been found 
inadvisable to transfer febrile patients treated in a permanent hospital to con- 
valescent tents, although patients treated from the first in tents have a good 
convalescence in them, as if there were something in habit. 

If these views are correct, they show that hospitals should have wards of 
different temperatures. The plan of ventilation already noted, viz., heating 
fresh air under each bed by hot-water pipes (the passage of hot water through 

* It is singular, however, that in some old people the temperature of the body is higher than 
normal (John Davy). Is there, then, a difference in the amount of external heat required in 
different persons ? 

| It is owing to this rule that in French hospitals, artificially ventilated and warmed by hot 
air, the amount of air is lessened and its temperature heightened in order to keep up the con- 
tract temperature of 15 C. (=59 F.) The air is then often close and disagreeable. 

J See Report on Hygiene in the Army Medical Report for 1862, by the author. Elue-Eook, 
1864. 

Das Kranken-Zerstreuungs-System von F. Kraus> 1861. 



KINDS OF WARMTH. 335 

certain of which can be stopped if desired), offers a means of giving a certain 
temperature to a bed even in a large ward, or in a small ward of bringing the 
whole air in the ward to any desired temperature. 



SECTION II 
DIFFERENT KINDS OF WAEMTH. 

Heat is communicated by radiation, conduction, and convection. The 
latter term is applied to the conveyance from one place to another of heat by 
means of masses of air, while conduction is the passage of heat from one par- 
ticle to another a very slow process. Practically, conduction and convection 
may be both considered under the head of convection. 

Radiant heat has been considered by most writers the best means of warm- 
ing ; it heats the body without heating the air,* and of course there is no 
possibility of impurity being added to the air. 

The disadvantages of radiant heat are its cost, and its feebleness at any dis- 
tance. The cost can be lessened by proper arrangement, but the loss of heat 
by distance is irremediable. The effect lessens as the square of the distance, 
i.e., if at 1 foot distance from the fire, the warming effect is said to be equal 
to 1, at 4 feet distance it will be sixteen times less. A long room, therefore, 
can never be warmed properly by radiation. 

It has been attempted to calculate the amount of air warmed by a certain 
space of incandescent fire, and 1 square inch has been supposed sufficient to 
warm 8 -4 cubic feet of air. But much depends on the walls, and whether 
the rays fall on them and warm them, and the air passing over them. 

Radiating grates should be so disposed as that every ray is thrown out into 
the room. The rules indicated by Desaguliers were applied by RumforjL 
Count Rumford made the width of the back of the grate one-third the width 
of the hearth recess ; the sides then sloped out to the front of the recess ; the 
depth of the grate from before backwards was made equal to the width of the 
back. The sides and back were to be made of non-conducting material ; the 
chimney throat was contracted so as to lessen the draught, and ensure more 
complete combustion. The grate was brought as far forward as possible,t 
but still under the throat. 

The open chimney, which is a necessity of the use of radiant grates, is so 
great an advantage that this is per se a strong argument for the use of this 
kind of warming, but in addition, there can be little doubt that radiant heat 
is really the healthiest. 

Still in large rooms it is not sufficient, and must be supplemented by 

Convection and Conduction. 

The air is heated in this case by passing over hot stones, earthenware, iron 
or copper plates, hot water or steam pipes. The air in the room is thus 
heated, or the air taken from outside is warmed, and is then allowed to pass 
into the room, if possible at or near the floor, so that it may properly mingle 
with the air already there. The heat of ih r vvarming surface should not be 
great, probably not more than 120 to 1 ^0 Fahr. ; there should be a large 

* My friend Dr Sankey has made experiments, which show that the temperature of the air 
of a room heated by radiant heat is really lower than the indicated temperature of the air, 
because the bulb is warmed by radiation. When this is prevented by enclosing the bulb in a 
bright tin case, the thermometer falls. 

f It has been truly said that, in spite of the constant use of Count Rumford's name, not one 
grate in 10,000 is made according to his principles. 



336 WARMING OF BARRACKS AND HOSPITALS. 

surface feebly heated. The air also should not be heated above 75 or 80 
Fahr., and a large body of air gently heated should be preferred to a smaller 
body heated to a greater extent, as more likely to mix thoroughly with the 
air of the room. 

It does not matter what the kind of surface may be, provided it is not too 
hot. If it is, the air acquires a peculiar smell, and is said to be burnt ; this 
has been conjectured to be from the charring of the organic matter. Some 
have supposed the smell to be caused by the effect of the hot air on the 
mucous membrane of the nose, but it is not perceived in air heated by the sun. 
Such air is also relatively very dry, and absorbs water eagerly from all sub- 
stances which can yield it. 

If air is less heated (not more than 75) it has no smell, and the relative 
humidity is not lessened to an appreciable extent. Haller's experiments, 
carried on over six years with the Meissner stove common in Germany, show 
that there the relative moisture is not lessened with moderate warming.* I 
have made experiments with the Galton stove used in barracks with the same 
result. On the other hand, when the plates are too hot, the air may be really 
too much dried, and Dr Sankey informs me that while he never found the 
difference between the dry and wet bulbs in a room warmed by radiant heat 
to be more than 8 Fahr., he has noticed in rooms warmed by hot air a diffe- 
rence of 15 to 17 Fahr., which implies a relative humidity, if the tempera- 
ture be 60, of only 34 per cent, of saturation, which is much too dry for 
health. In this case the air is always unpleasant, and must be moistened by 
passing over water before it enters the room if possible ; some heat is thus 
lost, but not much. Of the various means of heating, water is the best, as it 
is more under control ; steam is equally good, if waste steam can be utilised, 
but if not, it is more expensive. Hot-water pipes are of two kinds : pipes in 
which the water is not heated above 200 Fahr., and which, therefore, are not 
subjected to great pressure ; and pipes in which the water is heated to 300 or 
350 Fahr., and which are therefore subjected to great pressure. These pipes 
(Perkin's patent) are of small internal calibre (about |- inch), with thick walls 
made of two pieces of welded iron ; the ends of the pipes are joined by an 
ingenious screw. In the low-pressure pipes there is a boiler from which the 
water circulates through the pipes and returns again, outlets being provided 
at the highest points for the exit of the air. In Perkin's system there is no 
boiler ; one portion of the tube passes through the fire. 

The amount of tubing (low pressure) which must be given, requires a good 
deal of calculation ; the following rule is given by Hood : If the pipes be 
four inches diameter and the water be at 200, then divide the cubic con- 
tents of the room by 200, and the quotient will be the number of feet of pipe 
in length to keep the room at 55 Fahr. when the external air is 32. If 
Perkin's pipes are used, as the heating power is greater, a less amount does, 
probably about two-thirds, or a little more. 

A plan which was proposed 130 years ago by Desaguliers is now coming 
into general use, viz., to have an air-chamber round the back and sides of a 
radiating grate, and to pass the external air through it into the room. Thus 
a great economy of heat, and a considerable quantity of gently-warmed air 
passes into the room. The Meissner stove of Germany is a very ingenious 
stove of this sort, only there is no open fire. The advantages of these grates 
are that they combine a good amount of cheerful open fire, radiant heat, and 
chimney ventilation, with supplementary warming by hot air, so that more 

* Die Liiftung und Evwarmung cler Kinderstube und dcs Krankenzimmers, von D. C. Haller, 
I860, pp. 29-38. 



337 



value is obtained from the fuel, and larger spaces can be more effectually 
warmed. 

A great number of grates and stoves have been proposed, which it is im- 
possible here to notice.* The medical officer's advice will be sought, first, as 
to the kind, and, second, as to the amount of heat. He will find no difficulty 
in coming to the conclusion that in most cases both methods (radiation and 
connection) should be employed ; the air warmed by plates or coils of water- 
pipes being taken fresh from the external air and thereby conducing to ven- 
tilation. He will be also called on to state the relative amount of radiant 
and convected heat, and to determine the heat of the plates, and of the air 
coming off them, and the degree of humidity of the air. The thermometer, 
and the dry and wet bulbs, will give him all the information he wants on 
these points. 

* I would especially refer the reader, however, to Dr Neil Arnott's treatise on the "Smoke- 
less Fire," in which the true principles are laid down, and a description given of the Arnott 
Stove. The principles are by slow and perfect combustion to get the full value of the heating 
power of the coal ; to warm a large surface with this gradually, and to conduct over this surface 
a large amount of fresh air which may then flow into the room. In Dr Arnott's stove the dis- 
tinguishing feature is the valve which admits the air to the fire. It is so arranged as to partially 
close when the draught is strong, so as to cut oif the access of air to some extent, and to lessen 
the amount of combustion. Its mode of action can be scarcely understood without a model. 
Dr Arnott is now engaged in designing another valve, which is connected with rotating cups or 
sails, like a little anemometer, and which, more or less, closes the opening according to the rapi- 
dity with which the sails revolve with the wind. By this plan the air flowing to a stove or 
passing through a ventilating tube by the force of the wind, can be brought to a constant quan- 
tity. It is by no means improbable that we shall see some contrivances of this kind used in 
ventilation when the agency of the wind is employed. 



CHAPTER XII. 
EXERCISE AND PHYSICAL TRAINING. 

A PERFECT state of health implies that every organ has its due share of exer- 
cise. If this is deficient, nutrition suffers, the organ lessens in size, and 
eventually more or less degenerates. If it be excessive, nutrition, at first 
apparently vigorous, becomes at last abnormal, and, in many cases, a degene- 
ration occurs which is as complete as that which follows the disuse of an 
organ. Every organ has its special stimulus which excites its action, and if 
this stimulus is perfectly normal as to quality and quantity, perfect health is 
necessarily the result. 

But the term exercise is usually employed in a narrower sense, and ex- 
presses merely the action of the voluntary muscles. This action, though not 
absolutely essential to the exercise of other organs, is yet highly important, 
and indeed, in the long run, is really necessary for the perfect exercise of all 
organs, with perhaps the exception of the brain. For not only the circulation 
of the blood, but its formation and its destruction, are profoundly influenced 
by the movement of the voluntary muscles. Without this muscular move- 
ment health must inevitably be lost, and it becomes therefore important to 
determine the effects of exercise, the amount which should be taken, and the 
consequences of deficiency or of excess. 

SECTION I. 
THE EFFECTS OF EXERCISE. 

(a.) On the Lungs. The most important effect of muscular exercise is pro- 
duced on the lungs. The pulmonary circulation is greatly hurried, and the 
quantity of air inspired, and of carbonic acid expired, is marvellously in- 
creased. Dr Edward Smith has carefully investigated the first point, and the 
following table shows his main results. Taking the lying position as unity, 
the quantity of air inspired was found to be as follows : 



Lying position, . . 1 

Sitting, . . . 1'18 

Standing, . 1'33 

Singing, . . . 1'26 

Walking 1 mile per hour, 1 -9 



Walking and carrying 62 Ifo, 3 -84 
118 lb, 4-75 
4 miles per hour, 5 
,,6 7 

Riding and trotting, . 4'05 

Swimming, 



Treadmill, . . 5 "5 



2 2-76 

3 ,, 3-22 
and carrying 34 lb, 3 '5 

The great increase of air inspired is more clearly seen when it is put in this 
way : Under ordinary circumstances a man draws in 480 cubic inches per 



EFFECTS OF EXERCISE. 



339 



minute ; if he walks 4 miles an hour he draws in (480 x 5 = ) 2400 cubic 
inches ; if 6 miles an hour (480 x 7 = ) 3360 cubic inches. Simultaneously 
with this, the amount of carbonic acid in the expired air is increased (Schar- 
ling and many others), as is seen in the following table : * 

Effect of Exercise on the amount of Inspired Air, of Absorbed Oxygen, and 
of Exhaled Carbonic Acid in grains (English}, and in cubic feet (English). 





PER HOUR. 




Inspired 
air in 


Absorbed 

0' 


Exhaled Co 2 in 




cubic 


in 


grains = carbon. 




feet. 


grains. 




Man, 42 years old, weighing 135 R) avoir., 








Rest (mean of 3 experiments), 


27 


416-8 


603=164 


Exercise (mean of 5 experiments), . . 


64-9 


1829-6 


2501-682 


Man, aged 42, weighing 184*8 ft) avoir., 








Rest, 1 observation, 


23-66 


508-5 


682 = 185 


Exercise (mean of 2 experiments), . . 


92-8 


241-3 


3338 = 910 


Woman, aged 18, weighing 142 ft) avoir., 








Rest, 1 observation, 


13-25 


389-8 


464-7 = 1267 


Exercise, 1 observation, ..... 


51-9 


166-4 


2299 = 627 



In other words, in the first experiment, a man at rest would get rid in 24 
hours of 9 ounces of carbon, but if he could take exercise of the amount noted 
in the table during 24 hours, he would excrete more than 37 ounces of carbon. 
Of course it would be impossible that exercise should be so long continued, 
though men have occasionally been called on to make exertion almost equal 
to this, and it is equally clear that after exertion the amount of carbonic acid 
must fall below the usual amount even of rest, so that in no case could such 
a quantity as 37 ounces be eliminated. 

Dr Speck has also examined this point, and the following table has been 
calculated from his experiments, t the amounts are smaller than those given 
by Him : 



Amount of dry air at 32 Fahr. in- 
spired per minute in cubic inches. 
Mean of 62 experiments during 
rest, and 24 during exercise ; dif- 
ferent hours and on different days. 

Amount of dry air at 32 Eahr. ex- 
pired per minute. Mean of 62 
experiments during rest, and 24 
during exercise. 



During Rest. 
Cubic Inches. 



553-6 



484-3 



During Exercise. 
Cubic Inches. 



988-6 



985-3 



* These experiments are selected from some made by Him (" Ludwig's Physiology," p. 742). 
The mean has been taken of the amount of work in the hour. The mean amount of work done 
in the hour was, for the first man, 22017 kilogramme-metres=70-9 tons lifted 1 foot. (See 
formula given afterwards.) By the second man the work was 112 tons lifted 1 foot, and, in the 
case of the woman, nearly 70' tons lifted 1 foot. It maybe desirable to mention again here 
the mechanical equivalent of heat ; raising 430 grammes 1 metre high is equivalent to raising 
1 gramme of water from a temperature of to 1 Cent., or to 1 heat-unit. 

t Die Wirkung Korperlicher Anstrengung von C. Speck, Archiv des Vereins fiir wiss. Heilk. 
band vi. pp. 285 and 289. 

Y 2 



340 EXERCISE AND PHYSICAL TRAINING. 

The amount of carbonic acid expired per minute amounted to 8 '78 grains 
( = 2*39 grains carbon) during rest, and to 20 grains ( = 5'45 grains carbon) 
during exercise. In 24 hours this would give 3441 grains of carbon during 
rest, and 7858 during exertion ; but as the amount of excretion lessens greatly 
in the period of rest after exercise, the 24 hours' excretion would not be so 
great as this. But, as far as can be made out, it would seem that fair exertion 
for 10 hours a-day would increase the elimination of carbon in 24 hours about 
one-third over the excretion in the same time during rest. 

It seems most likely that the great formation of carbonic acid takes place 
in the muscles ;* it is rapidly carried off from them, and if it is not so, it 
would seem highly probable that their strong action becomes impossible. At 
any rate, if the pulmonary circulation and the elimination of carbonic acid are 
in any way impeded, the power of continuing the exertion rapidly lessens. 
The watery vapour exhaled from the lungs is also largely increased during 
exertion, and some observations of Dr Speck's lead to the inference that the 
nitrogen may be so also. 

Muscular exercise is then clearly necessary for a sufficient elimination of 
carbon from the body, and it is plain that, in a state of prolonged rest, either 
the carboniferous food must be lessened or carbon will accumulate. So also, 
if any substance exists in muscles which is destroyed by their contraction, as 
Sczelkow conjectures, deficient exercise may increase the amount of this sub- 
stance to an abnormal extent. 

Excessive and badly arranged exertion may lead to congestion of the lungs 
and even haemoptysis. Deficient exercise, on the other hand, is one of the 
causes which produce those nutritional alterations in the lung which we class 
as tuberculous. 

Certain rules flow from these facts. During exercise the action of the lungs 
must be perfectly free; not the least impediment must be offered to the 
freest play of the chest and the action of the respiratory muscles. The dress 
and accoutrements of the soldier should be planned in reference to this fact, 
as there is no man who is called on to make, at certain times, greater exertion. 
And yet, till a very recent date (and in our service, unfortunately, even now), 
the modern armies of Europe were dressed and accoutred in a fashion which 
took from the soldier, in a great degree, that power of exertion for which, and 
for which alone, he is selected and trained. The action of the lungs should 
be watched when men are being trained for exertion ; as soon as the respira- 
tions become laborious, and especially if there be sighing, the lungs are becom- 
ing too congested, and rest is necessary. 

A second point is, that the great increase of carbon excreted demands an 
increase of carbon to be given in the food. There seems a general accordance, 
among physiologists, that this is best given in the form of fat, and not of 
starch, and this is confirmed by the instinctive appetite of a man taking 
exertion, and not restrained in the choice of food. In this point the trainers 
of pedestrians and prize-fighters have till lately (and even now in some cases) 
greatly erred. In order to reduce the amount of fat in the body, they have 
excluded, as far as they could, the use of fat in food, and thus deprived the 
body of a substance absolutely essential for the nutrition of muscular fibre. 

A third rule is, that as spirits lessen the excretion of pulmonary carbonic 

* See the observations of Valentin and others, and especially the experiments of Sczelkow 
(Henle's Zeitschrift, 1863, band xvii. p. 106). The amount of C0 2 passing oft' from contracting 
muscles was indeed so great, and so much in excess of the passing to them, that it was con- 
jectured that carbonic acid must have been formed during contraction from substances rich in 
oxygen (such as formic acid), or that oxygen must have been obtained otherwise than from 
inspiration. 



EFFECTS OF EXERCISE. 341 

acid, they are hurtful during exercise ; and it is perhaps for this reason, as 
well as from their deadening action on the nerves of volition, that those who 
take spirits are incapable of great exertion. This is now well understood by 
trainers, who allow no spirits, and but little wine or beer. It is a curious 
fact, stated by Artmann, that if men undergoing exertion take spirits, they 
take less fat. Possibly in reality they lessen the amount of exertion, and 
therefore require less fat. Water alone is the best fluid to train on. 

A fourth rule is, that as the excretion of carbonic acid (and perhaps of pul- 
monary organic matter) is so much increased, a much larger amount of pure 
air is necessary ; and in every covered building (as gymnasia, riding-schools, 
&c.) where exercise is taken, the ventilation must be carried to the greatest 
possible extent, so soon does the air become vitiated. 

(6.) On the Heart and Vessels. The action of the heart rapidly increases in 
force and frequency, and the flow of blood through all parts of the body, in- 
cluding the heart itself, is augmented. The amount of increase is usually 
from ten to thirty beats, but occasionally much more. After exercise, the 
heart's action falls below its normal amount ; and if the exercise has been 
exceedingly prolonged and severe, may fall as low as fifty or forty per minute, 
and become intermittent. During exertion, when the heart is not oppressed, 
its beats, though rapid and forcible, are regular and equable, but when it 
becomes embarrassed, the pulse becomes very quick, small, and then unequal, 
and even at last irregular. In examining men who are training for severe 
exercises, and especially in the case of young recruits, the heart's action must 
be carefully examined, and exercise should be at once discontinued for a time, 
if the strokes become extremely quick (120-140) and unequal. When men 
have gone through a good deal of exertion, and then are called upon to make 
a sudden effort, I have known the pulse become very small and quick (160- 
170), but still retain its equability. There seems no harm in this, but such 
exertion cannot be long continued. 

An exertion which greatly tries a fatigued heart is the ascension of heights, 
but I have made no experiments on the effects of different kinds of exertion 
in this respect. The accommodation of the heart to great exertion is probably 
connected with the easy flow of blood through its own structure. 

After exertion the heart must have rest ; it is not yet known how much 
rest should follow a given amount of exertion. 

Excessive exercise leads to affection of the heart ; rupture (in some few 
cases), palpitation, hypertrophy in a good many cases, and more rarely valvu- 
lar disease. These may be avoided by careful training, and a due proportion 
of rest. Injuries to vessels may also result from too sudden or prolonged 
exertion. 

Deficient exercise leads to weakening of the heart's action, and probably 
to dilatation and fatty degeneration. 

These facts lead to certain rules. 

In commencing an unaccustomed exercise, the heart must be closely 
watched; excessive rapidity (120-140), inequality, and then irregularity, will 
point out that rest, and then more gradual exercise, is necessary, in order that 
the heart may be accustomed to the work. 

(c.) On the Skin. The skin becomes red from turgescence of the vessels, 
and perspiration is increased ; water, chloride of sodium, and acids (probably 
in part fatty), pass off in great abundance. It was formerly supposed that 
urea also passed off in this way, but this seems now doubtful. 

The amount of fluid passing off is not certain, but is very great. Speck's 
experiments show that it is at least doubled under ordinary conditions, and 
the usual ratio of the urine to the lung and skin excreta is reversed. Instead 



342 EXERCISE AND PHYSICAL TEAINING. 

of being 1 to O5 or 0'8, it becomes 1 to 1-7 or 2, or even 2-5. Evaporation 
reduces and regulates the heat of the body, which would otherwise soon 
become excessive ; so that, as long ago pointed out by Dr John Davy, the 
body temperature rises little above the ordinary temperature. No amount of 
external cold seems to be able to hinder this passage of fluid, though it may 
partly check the rapidity of evaporation. If anything check evaporation, the 
body-heat increases, and soon languor comes on and exertion becomes difficult. 
It seems likely that to some check in evaporation, combined with interference 
with free pulmonary action, one form of the so-called heat-apoplexy is owing. 

During exertion there is little danger of chill under almost any circum- 
stances ; but when exertion is over, there is then great danger of chill, because 
the heat of the body rapidly declines, and falls below the natural amount, and 
yet evaporation from the skin, which still more reduces the^heat, continues. 

The rules to be drawn from these facts are that the skin should be kept 
extremely clean ; during the period of exertion it may be exposed, but im- 
mediately afterwards, or in the intervals of exertion, it should be covered 
sufficiently well to prevent the least feeling of coolness of the surface. Flannel 
is best for this purpose. 

(d.) On the Voluntary Muscles. The muscles grow, become harder, and 
respond more readily to volition. Their growth, however, has a limit ; and 
a single muscle, or group of muscles, if exercised to too great an extent, will, 
after growing to a great size, commence to waste. But this seems not to be 
the case when all the muscles of the body are exercised, probably because no 
muscle can then be over-exercised. It seems to be a fact, however, that pro- 
longed exertion, without sufficient rest, damages to a certain extent the nutri- 
tion of the muscles, and they become soft. As their reparation only takes 
place during rest, this is easily understood, and besides, there may be in such 
cases a general want of nutrition throughout the whole system. 

The rules to be drawn from these facts are, that all muscles, and not single 
groups, should be brought into play, and that periods of exercise must be 
alternated, especially in early training, with long intervals of rest. 

(e.) On the Nervous System. The effect of exercise on the mind is not 
clear. It has been supposed that intellect is less active in men who take 
excessive exercise, owing to the greater expenditure of nervous force in that 
direction. But there is no doubt that great bodily is quite consistent with 
extreme mental activity ; and, indeed, considering that perfect nutrition is not 
possible except with bodily activity, we should infer that sufficient exercise 
would be necessary for the perfect performance of mental work. Doubtless, 
exercise may be pushed to such an extreme as to leave no time for mental 
cultivation ; and this is perhaps the explanation of the proverbial stupidity of 
the athletse. Deficient exercise causes a heightened sensitiveness of the 
nervous system, a sort of morbid excitability, and a greater susceptibility to 
the action of external agencies. 

(/.) On the Digestive System. The appetite largely increases with exercise, 
especially for meat and fat, but in a less degree, it would appear, for the carbo- 
hydrates. Digestion is more perfect, and possibly a larger development of force 
is obtained from an equal quantity of food than in a state of rest. The cir- 
culation through the liver increases, and the abdominal circulation is carried 
on with more vigour. Food must be increased, especially nitrogenous sub- 
stances, fats, and salts, and of these especially the phosphates and the chlo- 
rides.* The effects of exercise on digestion are greatly increased if it be 

* It is yet uncertain what kind of diet should be allowed during long marches in the tropics. 
Dr Kirk has informed me that in South Africa (10 to 17 S.L.), during Dr Livingston's second 




EFFECTS OF EXEKCISE. 343 

taken in the free air, and it is then a most valuable remedy for some forms of 
dyspepsia (James Blake, Pacific Medical and Surgical Journal, 1860). Con- 
versely, deficient exercise lessens both appetite and digestive power. 

(g.) On the Generative Organs. It has been supposed that puberty is 
delayed by physical exertion, but perhaps the other circumstances have not 
been allowed full weight. Yet, it would appear that very strong exercise 
lessens sexual desire, possibly because nervous energy is turned in a special 
direction. 

(h.) On tlie Eliminating Organs. The action on the lungs and skin has 
been already noticed. 

On the kidneys, the water of the urine and the chloride of sodium often 
lessen in consequence of the increased passage from the skin. The urea is 
slightly increased,* but the elimination of nitrogen from the system by no 
means approaches the immense increase in the outflow of carbon. The uric 
acid increases after great exertion ; so also apparently the pigment ; the 
phosphoric acid is often largely augmented, especially that combined with 
alkalies ; the sulphuric acid moderately ; the free carbonic acid is increased ; 
the chlorides are lessened on account of the outflow by the skin ; the exact 
amount of the bases has not been determined, but a greater excess of soda and 
potash is eliminated than of lime or magnesia ; nothing certain is known as 
to the amount of creatinin, hippuric acid, sugar, or other substances. 

On the bowels, the effect of exercise is to lessen the amount, partly, pro- 
bably, from lessened passage of water into the intestines nothing is known 
of the composition of the feces. 

From these facts the following rules can be inferred : Nitrogenous food 
must be somewhat increased in amount ; chloride of sodium, chloride of 
potassium, phosphates of soda, and potash, should be increased in amount ; 
probably all the salts should be augmented. 

(i.) On the Metamorphosis of Tissue. The weight of the body is lessened 
by exertion, owing to the increased exit of carbon, nitrogen, water, and salts. 
The quantity of carbon excreted is so great, and in such excess over the nitro- 
gen, that it cannot be accounted for by destruction of muscular fibre, per se; t 
it is necessary to suppose either that fat (perhaps in the muscle itself) is 
destroyed, or that some non-nitrogenous body, rich in carbon, is present in the 
muscles, and is destroyed by their action. % The increased quantity of 
nitrogen excreted is certainly smaller than we should have anticipated, and 
has led to the supposition that nitrogen, arising from muscular destruction, 
may pass off by the skin or lungs. But this is uncertain, as the most careful 

expedition a large quantity (2 Ib) of animal food was found to be essential ; this was pre- 
ferred, though any quantity of millets and leguminosae could have been procured. Fat was 
taken in large quantity. It was found, also, that boiled was better than roast meat, because 
the men could eat more of it. No bad effect whatever was traceable to the use of this great 
amount of meat, even in the intensest heat. 

* I say this with a full knowledge of the statements on the opposite side by Voit and others ; 
but the latest experiments of Speck ("Archiv des Vereins fur wiss. Heilk," band vi. p. 161) 
seem to show decidedly that there is a moderate increase in the elimination of urea in most 
cases, though not in all ; the exceptional cases are when there is excessive action of the skin, 
or the flow of water through the kidneys is so lessened as to retard the outflow of urea. 

t Taking Speck's experiments, the excess of carbon excreted in twenty-four hours' exertion 
over the excretion of twenty-four hours' rest, is about 102 grammes ; the excess of nitrogen, 
2'5 grammes ; this amount of nitrogen corresponds to 70 grammes of muscle, and this would 
give of carbon to be eliminated by the lungs only 77 grammes, so that nearly 94 grammes of 
carbon remain, which were not derived from muscular fibre, per se. The great acidity of 
muscles during and after exertion, from probably lactic acid (?), seems also to make this pro- 
bable. Heynsius has lately directed particular attention to the formation of lactic acid, and 
believes that the sense of fatigue in muscles is owing to the accumulation of this acid, which 
requires rest for neutralisation. 

J On this point Speck's experiments (op. cit.) seem conclusive. 



344 EXEKCISE AND PHYSICAL TKAINING. 

experiments, in a state of rest, seem to throw doubt on the excretion of 
nitrogen through any channel except the kidneys. 

The reparation of the muscles appears to take place only during rest ; and 
they require apparently much rest. This is especially the case when muscles 
are weak ; their repair goes on more slowly than when they are in condition. 

The muscles after exertion eagerly absorb and retain water. When water 
is taken after exertion, it does not pass off as usual by the kidneys or the 
skin, and instead of causing an augmented metamorphosis, as it does in a 
state of rest, it produces no effect whatever. It is a matter of the highest 
probability that it enters into the composition of the muscles, from which 
water has been passing so rapidly* during their strong action. So completely 
is it retained, that, although the skin has ceased to perspire, the urine does 
not increase in quantity for several hours. The quantity of water taken is 
sometimes so great as not only to cover the loss of weight caused by the 
exercise, but even to increase the weight of the body. 

We can be certain, then, of the absolute necessity of water for the acting 
muscle, and the old rule of the trainer, who lessened the quantity of water to 
the lowest point which could be borne, must be wrong. In fact, it is now 
being abandoned by the best trainers, who allow a liberal allowance of fluid. 
The error probably arose in this way : if, during great exertion, water is 
denied, at the end of the time an enormous quantity is often drunk, more, in 
fact, than is necessary, in order to still the overpowering thirst. The sweating 
which the trainer had so sedulously encouraged is thus at once compensated, 
and, in his view, all has to be done over again. All this seems to be a mis- 
apprehension of the facts. Muscles must have water, and the proper plan is 
to let them have it in small quantities and frequently ; not to deny it for 
hours, and then to allow it to pass in in a deluge. The plan of giving it in 
small quantities frequently, does away with two dangers, viz., the rapid pas- 
sage of a large quantity of cold water into the stomach and blood, and the 
taking more than is necessary, t 

In the French army, on the march, the men are directed not to drink ; but 
if very thirsty, to hold water in the mouth, or to carry a bullet in the mouth. 
It is singular, in that nation of practical soldiers, to find such an order. 
Soldiers ought to be abundantly supplied with water, and taught to take 
small quantities, when they begin to feel thirsty or fatigued. If they are hot, 
the cold water may be held in the mouth a minute or two before swallow- 
ing, as a precaution though, I must say, as far as I have seen, I have never 
known any ill effects from drinking a moderate quantity of cold water, even 
during the greatest heat of the body.:}: 



SECTION II. 
AMOUNT OF EXERCISE WHICH SHOULD BE TAKEN. 

It would be extremely important to determine, if possible, the exact amount 
of exercise which a healthy adult, man or woman, should take. Every one 
knows that great errors are committed, chiefly on the side of defective exer- 

* Speck's observations and remarks on this point (op. cit. p. 315) seem to render this almost 
certain. 

t It is but right to say that many travellers of great experience have expressed great fear 
of water under exertion. Some of them have most strongly urged that " water be avoided 
like poison," and have stated that a large quantity of butter is the best preventive of thirst. 
At any rate, the butter may be excellent, but a little water in addition would do no harm. 

* Horses also used to be, and by some are now, deprived or stinted of water during exercise. 



AMOUNT OF EXERCISE. 



345 



cise. It is not, however, easy to fix the amount even for an average man, 
much less to give any rule which shall apply to all the divers conditions of 
health and strength. 

The work which can be done by a man daily has been estimated at |th of 
the work of the horse ; but if the work of a horse is considered to be equal to 
the 1 -horse power of a steam-engine (viz. 33,000 K) raised 1 foot high per 
minute, or 8839 tons raised 1 foot high in ten hours), this must be an over- 
estimate, as yth of this would be 1265 tons raised 1 foot in a day's work of 
ten hours. The hardest day's work of twelve hours I have ever myself 
known a man do, was in the case of a workman in a copper rolling-mill. 
He stated that he occasionally raised a weight of 90 ft, to a height of 18 
inches, 12,000 times a-day. Supposing this to be correct, he would raise 723 
tons 1 foot high. But this much overpasses the usual amount. The same 
man's ordinary day's work, which he considered extremely hard, was raising 
a weight of 124 Ib 16 inches, 5000 or 6000 times in a day. Adopting the 
larger number, this would make his work equivalent to 44 2 '8 tons lifted a 
foot ; and this was a hard day's work for a powerful man. Some of the 
puddlers in the iron country, and the glass-blowers, probably work harder 
than this ; but I am not aware of any calculations. I learn from a pedlar, 
that an ordinary day's work was to carry 28 fb twenty miles daily. The 
weight is balanced over the shoulder ; 14 ft) behind and 14 Ib in front. The 
work is equal to 41 9 '5 tons lifted 1 foot. It would seem certain, that an 
amount of work equal to 500 tons lifted a foot is an extremely hard day's 
work, which perhaps few men could continue to do. 400 tons lifted a foot, 
is a hard day's work ; and 300 tons lifted a foot, is an average day's work for 
a healthy, strong adult.* 

But in India, the native horsemen give their horses drink as often as they can ; and Dr 
Nicholson tells me this is the case with the Cape horses ; even when the horses are sweating 
profusely, the men will ride them into a river, bathe their sides, and allow them to drink. 

* In this country, the amount of work done is generally estimated as so many Ibs. or tons 
lifted 1 foot. In France it is expressed as so many kilometres lifted 1 metre. Kilogramme- 
metres are converted into foot-pounds, by multiplying by 7 '216. The following table may be 
useful, as expressing amount of work done. It is taken from Mr Haughton's work (" A New 
Theory of Muscular Action "). The numbers are a little different from those given by Coulomb, 
as they have been recalculated by Mr Haughton, 1863. 



LABOURING FORCE OF MAN. 


Kind of Work. 


Amount of Work. 


Authority. 


Pile driving, 
Pile driving, 
Turning a winch, . . . 


312 tons lifted 1 foot. 
352 
374 

325 
303 
381 
352 
310 
160-7 . 


Coulomb. 
Lamaude. 
Coulomb. 

Haughton. 

?? 


Porters carrying goods, and returning ) 
unladen, . . j 


Pedlars always loaded 


Porters carrying wood up a stair, and ^ 
returning unloaded, ) 


Paviours at work, 
Military prisoners at shot drill (3 hours), ) 
and oakum picking, and drill, . . . ) 
Shot drill alone (3 hours), . 



It may be interesting to give some examples of work done in India by natives, which have 
been given me by Dr de Chaumont : 

A Leptcha hill-coolie will go from Punkabarree to Darjeeling (thirty miles, and an ascent of 5500 
feet), in three days, carrying 80 ft weight. The weight is carried on a frame supported on the 
loins and sacrum, and aided by a band passed round the forehead. 

Work per diem, 500 tons lifted 1 foot. 

Eight palanquin bearers carried an officer weighing 180 Ib, and palanqtiin weighing 250 Ib, 
twenty-five miles, in Lower Bengal. Assuming each man weighed 150 ft, the work was 600 
tons lifted a foot. 



346 EXERCISE AND PHYSICAL TRAINING. 

The exertion which the soldier is called upon to undergo is chiefly drill, 
and carrying weights on a level, or over an uneven surface. 

The Reverend Professor Haughton, who is so well known for his important 
contributions to physiology and medicine, has shown that walking on a level 
surface is equivalent to raising ^th part of the weight of the body, through 
the distance walked ; an easy calculation changes this into the weight raised 
1 foot. When ascending a height, a man of course raises his whole weight 
through the height ascended. 

Using this formula,* and assuming the soldier to weigh 150 lb with his 
clothes, we get the following table : 

Kind of Exercise. ^m!^ ' 

Walking 1 mile, .... 17-67 

2 35-34 



10 

20 

1 

2 

10 
20 



176-7 
353-4 
and carrying 60 lb, . . 24-75 

49-5 
247-5 
495 



It is thus seen that a march of ten miles, with a weight of 60 K) (which is 
nearly the weight a soldier carries when in marching order, but without 
blankets and rations), is a moderate day's work. A twenty-miles march, with 
60 lb weight, is a very hard day's work. As a continued labouring effort, Mr 
Haughton believes that walking twenty miles a-day, without a load (Sunday 
being rest), is good work (353 tons lifted a foot) ; so that the load of 60 fb 
additional would make the work too hard for a continuance. 

It must, however, be remembered, that it is understood that the walking is 
on level ground, and is done in the easiest manner to the person, and that the 
weights which are carried are properly disposed. The labour is greatly in- 
creased if the walk is irksome, and the weights are not well adjusted. And 
this is the case with the soldier. In marching, his attitude is stiff ; he ob- 
serves a certain time and distance in each step ; he has none of those shorter 
and longer steps, and slower and more rapid motion, which assists the ordinary 
pedestrian. The weights he carries are also (as will be hereafter noticed) so 
badly disposed, as to add greatly to the labour. It may be questioned, indeed, 
whether the formula does not under-estimate the amount of work actually done 
by the soldier. The work becomes heavier, too, i.e., more exhausting, if it is 
done in a shorter time ; or in other words, velocity is gained at the expense 
of carrying power, t 

Two Banghy Tmrdars carried 70 lb each for twenty-five miles. Work done = 648 tons lifted 
a foot. 

Extraordinary work appears to be sometimes done by natives of India. Immense marches 
of fifty miles a-day have been kept up for many days ; and much greater weights are often 
carried than those given above, even for great distances. 

The Turkish porters or hummals will carry weights of from 600 to 800 K> for short distances, 
but I do not know the precise distance which a man could do with this weight in twenty-four 
hours. 



The formula is ; where W is the weight of the person, W the weight carried ; 



D the distance walked ; 20 the co-efficient of traction ; and 2240 the number of pounds in a ton. 
The result is the number of tons raised 1 foot. To get the distance in feet, multiply 5280 by 
the number of miles walked. 

I Gerstner's formula is sometimes used to calculate this. The quotient of the actual and the 
average velocity is subtracted from 2 ; and the quotient of the times occupied by the work is 
also subtracted from 2. The product of these magnitudes is multiplied by the medium force. 
But this rule is doubtful. (See " Valentin's Physiology," translated by Brintou, p. 415.) 



TRAINING. 347 

Ordinary drill, without arms, is regarded by Mr Haughton to be equivalent 
to walking; but considering the constrained attitudes, and the tension of 
particular muscles, it seems but right to reckon it one-third more severe than 
common walking. 

In addition to drill and marching, the soldier has to perform other duties, 
such as cleaning arms and rooms, &c., of which the exact amount of work 
cannot be calculated. 

The shot-drill which military prisoners perform under certain circumstances 
is carried on for three hours daily. A man stoops down and lifts a 32 R> shot 
from a low bench, erects himself, steps 9 feet, and lowers the shot to another 
bench ; he then returns empty-handed to the first bench, lifts another shot, 
carries it to the second bench, and so on. Six double journeys are performed 
per minute. He therefore walks 18 feet 360 times per hour, or 6480 feet per 
hour, carrying his own weight, and also, for half the distance, a shot of 32 fb. 
He also lifts and puts down the weight of 32 ib twelve times per minute a height 
of 3 feet, or 2160 feet per hour. Assuming his weight to be 141 Ife, we find 
by the formula that the work is equal to 160*7 tons raised 1 foot.* 

Looking at all these results, and considering that the most healthy life is 
that of a man engaged in manual labour in the free air, and that the daily 
work will probably average from 250 to 350 tons lifted 1 foot, we can perhaps 
say, as an approximative, that every healthy man ought, if possible, to take a 
daily amount of exercise in some way which shall not be less than 150 tons 
lifted one foot. This amount is equivalent to a walk of about 9 miles ; but 
then, as there is much exertion taken in the ordinary business of life, this 
amount may be in many cases reduced. It is not possible to lay down rules 
to meet all cases, but probably every man with the above facts before him 
could fix the amount necessary for himself with tolerable accuracy. 

In the case of the soldier, if he were allowed to march easily, and if the 
weights were not oppressively arranged, he ought to do easily 12 miles daily 
for a long time, provided he was allowed a periodical rest. But he could not 
for many days, without great fatigue, march 20 miles a-day with a 60 Ib load, 
unless he were in good condition and well fed. If a greater amount still is 
demanded from him, he must have long subsequent rest. But all the long 
marches made by our own or other armies have been made without weights, 
except arms and a portion of ammunition. Then great distances have been 
traversed by men in good training and condition. 



SECTION III. 
TRAINING. 

As the trade of the soldier is, par excellence, an athletic one, and as he 
ought to be able and in readiness for any call on his energies, it is desirable 
to say a few words on the system by which it is attempted to prepare men for 
great exertions. 

* The formula is 

Work in tons in shot- ) _ / (2 W+32) 32 x 2A \ v , finm 
drill for 180 minutes } ~ V 20x2240 + 2240 / 
Where W is the weight of the man, 

a the distance the 32 It) shot is carried, 
h the height in feet to which the shot is lifted, 
n number double journeys per minute. 
Substituting the values, we have 

/282ft+32K>(x9feet) , 32 ft x 6 feet \ ... 
work m tons = ^ 20 x 2240 2240 / X J ourne y s x 1" minutes. Haughton. 



348 EXEKCISE AND PHYSICAL TRAINING. 

The system of training is now conducted on much sounder principles than 
formerly. The old trainers, in addition to fanciful systems of diet, and, in 
some cases, the use of spirits, gave much purgative and diaphoretic medicine ; 
so that digestion was weakened, and many men came out of their hands in 
really worse condition than they went in. Even now the system of training 
is so far faulty that men cannot be kept in high training for any length of 
time. Some of the best pedestrians now never go into training at all, but 
lead a life which keeps them always ready for their vocation. As far as I can 
learn, this life is a simple and sensible one. Plain and regular diet, without 
restriction to one set food ; temperance ; systematic exercise, not pushed to 
great excess ; the avoidance of tobacco, or its use in great moderation ; and 
great cleanliness, seem to be the chief points. And, as a writer celebrated 
in the annals of the Fancy* has advocated lately these simple but all-suf- 
ficient rules, we need not expect to see any revival of the old fancies of the 
ring. 

The rules now laid down by the best trainers are these. Their motto is 
now "Work and diet." 

The diet is largely of lean meat. Underdone meat is still used, though 
there is no physiological reason for this. All that is wanted is that the meat 
should be perfectly digestible. Fat is excluded by most, and sugar also, or 
is given in small quantity ; weak beer, or weak wine and water (two glasses 
of wine daily sherry for pedestrians, port for boxers, but this is a mere fancy) ; 
but no spirits are used, and often nothing but water or barley-water is al- 
lowed. Tea and coffee are sometimes excluded. Tobacco is excluded by most. 
The man sleeps in a cool room, with free ventilation, and in beds not too hot ; 
feather-beds are considered relaxing. Great cleanliness and the frequent use 
of the bath are rigorously enforced. Purgative physic is now never given, but 
sweating is produced by the feather-bed and blankets, by the Turkish bath, 
or by exercise in flannel. In the first case, during sweating, no water is 
given, and it is said the thirst goes when the sweating is over ; but it seems 
as if the feather-bed sweating is now going out of fashion, or is only used 
once or twice when the men are very fat. The Turkish bath is regarded dif- 
ferently by different trainers some use it ; others call it detrimental. Sweat- 
ing by exercise is the common plan, and little water is allowed. 

The amount of work done is moderate at first, but is gradually increased, 
until a regime like the following is reached. The man rises at an early hour ; 
uses the dumb-bells or the chest -expander for some time, varying according to 
the period of training ; then takes a cold bath, and starts for a walk of an 
hour, taking before starting a stale crust of bread, and perhaps a raw egg and 
a cup of infusion of gentian. He then breakfasts on meat and bread, with 
perhaps tea, but little or no sugar. An hour after breakfast he begins his 
exercises with dumb-bells or weights, or walks, according to his vocation, and 
is made to sweat profusely. The exercises vary in length according to the 
condition of the man and the time of training ; they are at first light, and 
increase in severity. When training is at its height, about eight or ten hours 
are occupied in sleep, four in meals and rest, and the remaining ten or twelve 
in exercises more or less severe, or in quick walking. Training usually lasts 
six weeks. 

The system is irksome, and the men sometimes find the training worse 
than the punishment they receive in the ring. 

The result of this training is apparently greatly to improve the health. 

* " Stonehenge '' a nom de plume well known in the sporting world. It is easy to see that 
sound medical knowledge dictated this sensible little work on training. 



GYMNASTIC EXERCISES. 349 

The skin gets clear, the eye bright, the temper cheerful ; the movements 
of the body are easy and rapid ; the breathing power of the lungs greatly 
augments ; there is little fat on the body ; the muscles are firm and resistant, 
so that they are not so easily bruised as usual, and injuries are sooner re- 
covered from. 

The fault of the system is to be found in the fanciful notions of diet which 
still prevail. The exclusion of fat and of the starches must reduce too much 
the amount of fat in the body, and must seriously interfere with the nutrition 
of muscle. The true way of lessening fat is to be found in exercise, com- 
bined with such a lessening of the carboniferous food as may permit little or 
none to be stored up. Owing, probably, to this dietary, it appears to be true 
that many men are "overtrained," i.e., too fine-drawn from absorption of fat, 
and few men can remain in high training for any length of time. Some of 
the best trainers now endeavour not to lessen the external fat too much ; in 
fact their criterion should be the breathing power, and muscular strength 
and rapidity, not the appearance of the man. That the deprivation of fat is 
an entire mistake, is not only a matter of reasoning, it is practically the case 
that men who take much exertion always take much fat. (See THE DIETS, 
p. 148.) 

After training, the men often compensate for their previous abstinence by 
great excesses, and pass from extreme work to a state of perfect idleness ; and 
this is no doubt the principal cause that professional pedestrians and prize- 
fighters are not very healthy as a class. The same fact precisely occurred 
among the athletes of Greece ; as a class they were short-lived. Men of the 
better classes, training for boat-racing or other athletic sports, injure them- 
selves by excessive exertion commenced too early in the training, and do not 
give time for the lungs to expand and the muscles to develop. 

In the case of the soldier, he ought to be always in a state of training, if 
we use this term to express those habits which are best calculated to develop 
and maintain muscular vigour. In many respects, and especially in the cavalry 
branch of the service, where the care of the horses calls into play many 
muscles which in the infantry soldier are less used, the life of the soldier is a 
good one for muscular training. He has regular work, with proper intervals 
of rest, and, to a certain extent, good and well-cooked food. But it fails in 
the following points : In the infantry the attitudes are too stiff, and all the 
muscles are not equally exercised ; the clothes are too tight, the weights are 
badly carried, and oppress the lungs and heart. At the present time a great 
improvement is being introduced by Lord de Grey, by making all men in the 
infantry under ten years' service go through a three months' course of gym- 
nastic training in the year (spreading over six months by taking every other 
day), which will have the effect of developing all the muscles. If the food 
could be increased in quantity, especially in its nitrogenous and fatty con- 
stituents, the clothes loosened, and the weights properly carried, there 
would be no doubt that the soldier could be kept in a condition of perfect 
training ; at least there would be only his own vices drinking, excessive 
tobacco-smoking, and inordinate sexual indulgence which could pre- 
vent this. 

SECTION IV. 
GYMNASTIC EXERCISES. 

All military nations have used in their armies a system of athletic exercises. 
The Greeks commenced such exercises when the increase of cities had given 



350 EXERCISE AND PHYSICAL TRAINING. 

rise to a certain amount of sedentary life. The Eomans began to use athletic 
training in the early days of the Republic, entirely with a view to military 
efficiency. The exercises were continuous, and were not alternated with 
periods of complete idleness. 

The officers exercised with the men. At a later day we are told that 
Marius never missed a single day at the Campus Martius ; and Pompey is said 
by Sallust to have been able at fifty-eight years of age to run, jump, and carry 
a load as well as the most robust soldier in his army. 

Swimming was especially taught by the Romans, and so essential were the 
gymnastic exercises deemed that, to express that a man was completely igno- 
rant, it was said "he knew neither how to read nor swim." The gymnastic 
exercises were the last of the old customs which disappeared before the increas- 
ing luxury of the later empire. 

In the feudal times the practice of the weapons was the best gymnastic 
exercise ; every peasant in England was obliged to practise with the bow ; 
the noblemen underwent an enormous amount of exercise both with and with- 
out arms, and on foot and horseback. 

After the invention of gunpowder the qualities of strength and agility 
became of less importance for the soldier, and athletic training was discon- 
tinued everywhere. But within the last few years the changing conditions of 
modern warfare have again demanded from the soldier a degree of endurance 
and of rapidity of movement which the wars of the eighteenth century did not 
require. And the population generally of this country have of late years 
become alive to the necessity of compensating, by some artificial system of 
muscular exercise, the sedentary life which so many lead. 

In our own time, the first regular gymnasium appears .to have been estab- 
lished at Schwefental, in Saxony, by Saltzmann, with a view of giving health 
to the body, strengthening certain muscles, and remedying deformities. 
About forty years ago, Ling also commenced in Sweden the system of move- 
ments which have made his name so celebrated. Switzerland, Spain, and 
France followed, and of late years in Germany many gymnastic societies 
(Turner- Verein) have been founded in almost all the great cities, and the lite- 
rature of gymnasticism is now a large one. In our own country, the out-door 
and vigorous life led by the richer classes, and by many working-men, ren- 
dered this movement less necessary, but of late years societies have been 
formed, gymnasia established, and athletic sports encouraged in many 
places. 

Among armies, the Swedish and Prussian were the first to attempt the 
physical training of their soldiers. France followed in 1845, and ever since 
a complete system of gymnastic instruction has been carried on in the French 
army. Since the accession of Napoleon III., the greatest care has been taken 
to develop this plan of increasing the efficiency of the soldier, arid a large 
military gymnastic school exists at Vincennes w^here instructors for the army 
are taught. 

In the English army this matter attracted less attention until after the 
Crimean War, when the establishment of gymnasia as a means of training 
and recreation were among some of the many reforms projected by Lord 
Herbert. In 1859, General Hamilton and Inspector-General Dr Logan were 
sent over to inspect the systems in use on the Continent, and presented a 
very interesting Report, which was subsequently published. A grant of 
money was immediately taken for a gymnasium at Aldershot, and this has 
now (1866) been in operation for four years, under the direction of Major 
Hammersley, with most satisfactory results. Lord de Grey is wisely urging 
on this matter ; Gymnasia are now ordered to bo built at all the largo stations, 



EFFECTS OF GYMNASTIC EXERCISES. 351 

and a complete code of instructions, drawn up by Mr MacLaren of Oxford, is 
now published by authority.* 

Gymnastic Instruction in the English Army. 

The instruction has two great objects : 1st, To assist the physical develop- 
ment of the recruit ; 2d, To strengthen and render supple the frame of the 
trained soldier. Every recruit is now ordered to have three months' gymnastic 
training during (or, if judged expedient by a medical officer, in lieu of part 
of) his ordinary drill. Two months are given before he commences rifle prac- 
tice, and one month afterwards. This training is superintended by a medical 
officer, who will be responsible that it is done properly, and who will have 
the power to continue the exercises beyond the prescribed time, if he deems 
it necessary. The exercise for the recruit is to last only one hour a-day, and 
in addition he will have from two to three hours of ordinary drill. 

The trained infantry soldier under ten years' service, is ordered to go 
through a gymnastic course of three months' duration every year, one hour 
being given every other day. The cavalry soldier is to be taught fencing and 
sword exercise in lieu of gymnastics. 

The Code of Instructions drawn up by Mr MacLaren consists of two parts, 
elementary and advanced exercises. The exercises have been arranged with 
very great care, and present a progressive course of the most useful kind. 

The early exercises commence with walking and running ; leaping, with 
and without a pole, follows, and then the exercises with apparatus com- 
mence, the order being the horizontal beam, the vaulting bar, and the vaulting 
horse. All these are called exercises of progression. The elementary exercises 
follow, viz., with the parallel bars, the pair of rings, the row of rings, the 
elastic ladder, the horizontal bar, the bridge ladder, and the ladder plank. 
Then follow the advanced exercises of climbing on the slanting and vertical 
pole, the slanting and vertical rope, and the knotted rope. 

Finally, the most advanced exercises consist of escalading, first against a 
wall, and then against a prepared building. 

In the French army swimming and singing are also taught. Both are very 
useful ; the singing is encouraged, not as a matter of amusement (though it is 
very useful in this way), but as a means of improving the lungs. 

Swimming should be considered an essential part of the soldier's educa- 
tion, and it is probable that it will be systematically taught in the English 
army. 

Robert Jackson very strongly recommended that dancing should be taught 
and encouraged. There is sound sense in this ; a spirited dance brings into 
play many muscles, and in a well-aired room is as good an exercise as can be 
taken. It would also be an amusement for the men. 

Effects of Gymnastic Training. 

On Young Men under Twenty. In the chapter on the Choice and Treat- 
ment of the Recruit, some particulars are given of the average size and growth 
up to the age of twenty, under ordinary circumstances, as far as these are 
known. Mr MacLaren has endeavoured to determine the ratio of growth at 
different ages under the influence of gymnastic training, but his observations 
are at present too few to enable a rule to be laid down. 

On trained soldiers, the effect of gymnastic training is to increase largely 

* A Military System of Gymnastic Exercises. By Archibald MacLaren. - Adjutant-General's 
Office, Horse-Guards, 1862. * 



352 EXERCISE AND PHYSICAL TRAINING. 

the girth of the chest, and of the arms and legs. In some cases, also, even in 
grown men the height increases. 

From a table given to me by Major Hammersley, it appears that at Alder- 
shot, up to November 1862, the average increase in 360 men from not more 
than one to two months' training two or three times weekly, was 
Chest, .... 1-625 inches. 

Fore arm, ... -5 

Upper arm, . '75 

SECTION V. 
DUTIES OF THE OFFICER IN THE GYMNASIUM. 

The Medical Regulations (pp. 29 and 79) order the inspecting medical officer 
and surgeon to visit and advise on the kind and amount of gymnastic exer- 
cises ; and a late Report from the Committee of Gymnastic Exercises appointed 
by the War Office, directs that the medical officer shall inspect the recruits 
once a fortnight, and the trained soldiers once a month. The measurements 
of the recruit are also to be taken under the direction of the medical officer. 
The following points should be attended in regard to 

1. Recruits. The recruit is inspected from time to time, to see if the 
system agrees with him. 

(a.) Weight. The weight of the body should be ascertained at the begin- 
ning and end of the course, and during it, if the recruit in any way complains. 
With sufficient food recruits almost always gain in weight, therefore any loss 
of weight should at once call for strict inquiry. It may be the recruit is 
being overdone, and more rest may be necessary. But in order to avoid the 
greatest error, the weights must be carefully taken ; if they are taken at all 
times of the day, without regard to food, exercise, &c., accuracy is impossible ; 
there may be 2 Ib or 3 ft variation. The physiological practice during experi- 
ments is to take the weight the first thing in the morning before breakfast, 
and after emptying the bladder. If it cannot be done at this time, scarcely 
any reliance can be placed on the result. Food alone may raise the weight 
2 Ib or 3 K>, and we cannot be sure that the same quantity of food is taken 
daily. The clothes, also, must be remembered; men should be weighed 
naked if possible, if not, in their trousers only, and always in the same dress. 

(b.) Height. This is usually taken in the erect position. Dr Aitken* 
recommends it to be taken when the body is stretched on a horizontal plane. 
A series of experiments on both plans would be very desirable. 

(c.) Girth of Chest. The chest is measured to ascertain its absolute size, 
and its amount of expansion. 

It is best measured when the man stands at attention, with the arms 
hanging and the tape should pass round the nipple line. The double tape 
(the junction being placed on the spine) is a great improvement over the 
single tape, as it measures the sides separately, and with practice can be done 
as quickly. 

The chest should be measured in the fullest expiration and fullest inspira- 
tion. If the chest is measured with the arms extended, or over the head, as 
ordered in the Regulations in Recruiting, the scapulae may throw out the tape 
from the side of the chest. 

Sibson's chest-measurer and Quain's stethometer may be used, if thought 
desirable. 

* On the Growth of the Recruit, p. 68. 



EFFECTS OF GYMNASTIC EXERCISES. 353 

(d.) The Inspirator// Power, as expressed by the spirometer, may also bo 
employed. The spirometer invented by Dr Lewis of Carmarthen appears to 
be better than Hutchinson's. 

(e.) Growth of Muscles. This is known by feeling the muscles when re- 
laxed and in action, and by measurements. The measurement of the upper 
arm should be taken either when the arm is bent over the most prominent 
part of the biceps, or over the thickest part when the arm is extended. 

(/.) General Condition of Health. Digestion, sleep, complexion, &c. 
The recruit should also be inspected during the time of exercise to watch the 
effect on his lungs, heart, and muscles. In commencing training the great 
point is to educate, so to speak, the heart and lungs to perform suddenly 
without injury a great amount of work. To do this there is nothing better 
than practice in running and jumping. It is astonishing what effect this soon 
has. If possible, the increase in the number of respirations after running 200 
or 300 yards should be noted on the first day, as this gives a standard by 
which to judge of the subsequent improvement. But as it would be impos- 
sible and a waste of time to do this with all the men, directly the run is 
ended the men should range in line, and the medical officer should pass 
rapidly down and pick out the men whose respiration is most hurried. In 
all the exercises the least difficulty of respiration should cause the exercise to 
be suspended for four or five minutes.* The heart should be watched ; the 
characters indicating the necessity for rest or easier work are excessive rapidity 
(130-160), smallness, inequality, and irregularity. 

Soreness of muscles after the exercise, or great weariness, should be inquired 
into. It would be well every now and then to try the inguinal and femoral 
rings during exertion and coughing. 

One very important part in gymnastic training depends on the instructor. 
A good instructor varies the work constantly, and never urges a man to undue 
or repeated exertion. If the particular exercise cannot be done by any man 
it should be left for the time. Anything like urging or jeering by the rest of 
the men should be strictly discountenanced. The instructor should pass 
rapidly from exercise to exercise, so that a great variety of muscles may be 
brought into play for a short time each, and as the men work in classes, and 
all cannot be acting at once, there is necessarily a good deal of rest. 

The grand rule for an instructor is, then, change of work and sufficient rest. 

In the case of a recruit who has not been used to much physical exertion, 
the greatest care must be taken to give plenty of rest during the exercises. 
There may even seem to be an undue proportion of rest for the first fortnight, 
but it is really not lost time. The medical officer is only directed to visit the 
gymnasium once a fortnight, but during the first fortnight of the training of 
a batch of recruits he should visit it every day. 

With proper care men are very seldom injured in gymnasia. I was in_- 
formed at Vincennes that though they did not take men unless they were 
certified as fit by a medical officer, they occasionally got men with " delicate 
chests," though not absolutely diseased. These men always improved mar- 
vellously during the six months they remained at Vincennes. In fact, a 
regulated course of gymnastics is well known to be an important remedial 
measure in threatened phthisis. Hernia is never caused at Vincennes. Nor 
does it appear that any age is too great to be benefited by gymnastics, though 

* In the training of horses the points always attended to are the very gradual increase of 
the exercise ; gentle walking is persevered in for a long time, then slow gallops, then, as the 
horse gains wind and strength, quicker gallops ; but the horse is never distressed, and a boy 
would be dismissed from a stable if it were known that the horse he was riding showed by 
sighing, or in any other way, that the speed was too great for him. 

Z 



354 EXERCISE AND PHYSICAL TRAINING. 

iii old men the condition of the heart and vessels (as to rigidity) should be 
looked to. 

Trained Soldiers. There is less occasion for care with these men ; they 
should, however, be examined from time to time, and any great hurry of re- 
spiration noted. The man should be called out from the class, his heart 
examined, and some relaxation advised if necessary. 



SECTION VI. 
DRILLS AND MARCHES. 

In drill, and during marches, the movements of the soldiers are to a certain 
extent restrained. In the attitude of " attention" the heels are close together, 
the toes turned out at an angle of 60, the arms hang close by the sides, the 
thumbs close to the forefingers and on a line with the seam of the trousers. 
The position is not a secure one, as the basis of support is small, and in the 
manual and platoon exercise the constant shifting of the weight changes the 
centre of gravity every moment, so that constant muscular action is necessary 
to maintain the equilibrium. Men are therefore seldom kept long under 
attention, but are told to " stand at ease" and " stand easy," in which cases, 
and especially in the latter, the feet are farther apart and the muscles are less 
constrained. 

In marching the attitude is still stiff it is the position of attention that is, 
as it were, put into motion. The slight lateral movement which the easy 
walker makes when he brings the centre of gravity alternately over each foot, 
and by the slight rotary motion which the trunk makes on the hip-joint, is 
restrained as far as it can be, though it cannot be altogether avoided, as is 
proved by observing the slight swaying motion of a line of even very steady 
men marching at quick time. Marching is certainly much more fatiguing 
than free walking; and in the French army, and by many commanding officers 
in our own, the men are allowed to walk easily and disconnectedly, except 
when closed up for any special purpose. This may not look so striking to 
the eye of a novice, but to the real soldier, whose object is at the end of a long 
march to have his men so fresh that, if necessary, they could go at once into 
action, such easy marching is seen to be really more soldierlike than the 
constrained attitudes which lead so much sooner to the loss of the soldier's 
strength and activity. 

In walking, the heel touches the ground first, and then rapidly the rest of 
the foot, and the great toe leaves the ground last. The soldier, in some 
countries, is taught to place the foot almost flat on the ground, but this is a 
mistake, as the body loses in part the advantage of the buffer-like mechanism 
of the heel. The toes are turned out at an angle of about 30 to 45, and at 
each step the leg advances forward and a little outward ; the centre of gravity, 
which is between the navel and the pubis, about in a line with the promontory 
of the sacrum (Weber), is constantly shifting. It has been supposed that it 
would be of advantage to keep the foot quite straight, or to turn the toes a 
little in, and to let the feet advance almost in a line with each other.* But 

* Sir John Burgoyne, in a very able and excellent paper on the "Clothing of the Soldier" 
( " Trans, of the Royal Engineers, 1863 "), has argued that the tread of the Red Indian should be 
our model. But in all probability the peculiar step of the Red Indian was merely acquired 
in order to hide the trail ; a man treads on his own footstep, and a line of men follow accurately 
in the footsteps of those before them. Inspector-General Dr Anderson has also informed me 
that the Red Indians have told him that by the action of turning in the toes they have less 
chance of entanglement in the long prairie grass. 




MAKCHING. 



355 



the advantage of keeping the feet apart and the toes turned out, is that, first, 
the feet can advance in a straight line, which is obviously the action of the 
great vasti muscles in front of the thigh ; and, second, when the body is 
brought over the foot, the turned-out toes give a much broader base of sup- 
port than when the foot is straight. The spring from the great toe may per- 
haps be a little greater when the foot is straight (though of this I am not 
certain, and I do not see why the gastrocnemii and solei should contract better 
in this position), but there is a loss of spring from the other toes. Besides 
this, it has been shown by Weber that when the leg is at its greatest length, 
i.e., when it has just urged the body forward, and is lifted from the ground, it 
falls forward like a pendulum from its own weight, not from muscular action, 
and this advance is from within and behind to without and before, so that 
this action alone carries the leg outwards. 

The foot should be raised from the ground only so far as is necessary to 
clear obstacles. Formerly, in the Eussian Imperial Guard, the men were 
taught to march with a peculiar high step, the knee being lifted almost to a 
level with the acetabulum. The effect was striking, but the waste of power 
was so great that long marches were impossible, and I believe this kind of 
marching is now given up. The foot should never be advanced beyond the 
place where it is to be put down ; to do so is a waste of labour. 

In the English army the order is as follows : 

Length and Number of Steps in Marching. 



Kind of Step. 


Length. 


No. per Minute. 


Ground Traversed 
per Minute. 


Ground Traversed 
per Hour with- 
out Halts. 




Inches. 




Feet. 


Miles. 


Slow time, . 


30 


75 


1871 


2-1 


Quick time, 


30 


110 


275 


3-1 


Stepping out, 


33 


110 


302J 


3-4 


Double, 


36 


150 


450 


5-1 


Stepping short, . 


10 




... 




Side step, . 


10 








or when 










Forming four deep, 


21 








Stepping back, 


30 




... 





The " double" is never continued very long ; it is stopped at the option of 
the commanding officer. In the French army, it is ordered not to be con- 
tinued longer than twenty minutes.* At the double (if without arms), the 
forearms are held horizontally, the elbows close to the side ; if the rifle is car 

* It may be worth while to mention some of the feats of celebrated pedestrians as a means 
of comparison. 

The mile has been walked in 7 minutes (or at the rate of 8J miles per hour). Such an exertion 
is enormous, for the exertion is in the ratio of the velocity. 

Ten miles have been walked by Captain Saunders in 93i minutes, and 21 miles in 3 hours by 
Westhall. 

In running, 100 yards have been covered in 9| seconds ; a little over 10 sec. is the usual time. 



| mile in 

1 mile in 

2 miles in 



30 
11 

20 

40 

100 



and 46 yards 



1 minute 58 seconds. 

4 minutes 22J 
9 minutes 20 ,, 

31 

51 

60 

120 

5 hours. 

18 hours and 50 minutes. 



z 2 



EXKRCISE AND PHYSICAL TRAINING. 



ried, one arm is so held. There is an advantage in this attitude, as the arms 
are brought into the position of least resistance ; more fixed points are given 
for the muscles of respiration, and the movement of the arms and shoulders 
facilitates the rapid shifting of the centre of gravity. 

Slow time is only used on certain occasions ; quick time is almost always 
used in drills and marching. The ground got over per hour is generally re- 
duced by halts to 2 '8 miles. 

Some regiments also go at the double, and can do 6 or even 7 miles per 
hour for a short time. 

In the French army the length of the step is rather different. 

French Steps in English Measures. 





Length of Step 
in Inches. 


Steps per 
Minute. 


Ground Traversed 
per Minute in 
feet. 


Ground Traversed 
per Hour in 
Miles. 


Pas ordinaire, . 


26 


76 


164 


1-86 


Pas de route, . 


26 


100 


216 


2-46 


Pas accelere, . 


26 


110 


238 


2-70 


Pas accelere, . 


26 


120 


260 


2-95 


Pas de charge, 


26 


128 


277 


3-15 


Pas maximum, 


26 


153 


331 


3-76 



The French step is therefore 4 inches shorter than the English ; this is per- 
haps because the men are, as a rule, shorter. The Prussian and the Bavarian 
step is 30 inches (Prussian) long, and 120 steps are taken per minute. 

The exact length of the step, and the number per minute, are very impor- 
tant questions. The object of the soldier is to get the step as long, and the 
number per minute as great, as possible, without undue fatigue, so as to get 
over the greatest amount of ground. 

The quickest movement of the leg forward in walking has been shown by 
Weber to correspond very closely with half a pendulum vibration of the leg, 
and to occupy, on an average, 0'357 seconds; this would give 168 steps per 
minute, supposing the one foot left the ground when the other touched it. 
This is much quicker than the army walking step (the double is a run), and 
no doubt much quicker than could long be borne, since, with a step of only 
30 inches, it would give nearly 5 miles per hour ; but it may be a question 
whether, with men in good condition, the pace might not be increased to 130 
per minute. Practical trials, however, with soldiers carrying arms and accou- 
trements can only decide this point. 

The length of the step of an average man has been fixed by the Brothers 
Weber at about 28 inches. In individual cases, it depends entirely on the 
length of the legs. Eobert Jackson considered 30 inches as too long a step 
for the average soldier, and suggested 27 inches. It is of great importance 
not to lessen the length too much, and it would be very desirable to have 
some well-conducted experiments on this point. The steps must be shorter 
if weights are carried than without them ; a little consideration shows how 
this is : When a man walks, he lifts his whole body and propels it forward, 
and in doing so, the point of centre of gravity describes a circular motion, in 
the form of an arc about the foot. 

Now, the less the body is raised, or, in other words, the shorter the versed 
sine of the arc, the less of course the labour. In long steps, the arc, and of 
course the versed sine, or height to which the body is raised, are greater ; in 



MARCHING. 357 

short steps, less. It is probable that, with the weight the soldier carries 
(60 ft)), the step of 30 inches is quite long enough, perhaps even too long ; 
and it would be desirable to know if, after a march of six or eight miles, the 
steps do not get shorter. 

In the French army, the march is commenced at the pas de route (100 
steps per minute) : then accelerated to 110 steps, and finally to 130; during 
the last half-hour 100 steps are returned to. But the soldiers themselves 
often set the step ; the grenadiers and the voltigeurs alternately leading. 
Four kilometres ( = 2 J miles) are done in forty-five or forty-eight minutes. 
( )ne kilometre ( = 0'62 miles) is done in about twelve minutes. 

The soldier, in this country, when he marches in time of peace, carries his 
pack, kit, havresack, water-bottle, greatcoat, rifle, and ammunition (probably 
twenty rounds). In India, he does not carry his pack or greatcoat. 

There is a very general impression that the best marchers are men of middle 
size, and that very tall men do not march so well. 

Length of the March. In " marching out" in time of peace, which is done 
once or twice a-week in the quiet time of the year, the distance is six or eight 
miles. In marching on the route or in war, the distance is from ten or twelve 
miles to occasionally eighteen or twenty, but that is a long march. A forced 
inarch is any distance twenty-five to thirty, and occasionally even forty, 
miles being got over in twenty-four hours. In the Prussian army the usual 
march is fourteen miles (English) ; if the march is continuous, there is a halt 
every fourth day. 

A halt is usually made every hour for five minutes, and fifteen minutes after 
the second hour. In a long march, an hour's halt is made in the middle. In 
the French army, halts are frequent during the first days, but when the men 
are fully trained they take place only every two hours. 

In marching long distances, the extent of the marches, the halting grounds, 
&c., are fixed by the Quartermaster's department. 

Robert Jackson considered that an ordinary march should be fourteen 
miles, and done in four hours and twenty-five minutes, including halts, at the 
rate of three and four miles an hour, the first hour to be at slow time, with 
five minutes' halt ; the march to be at quick time with fifteen minutes' halt 
at the end of the second hour ; in the third hour slow time to be resumed 
an hour's halt to be given after two or three hours. Officers of experience, 
however, have informed me that the slow time is not a good plan ; it is better 
not to let the men drawl on the pace, but to give them more frequent halts, 
if necessary, to get their wind. 

Order of March. Whenever possible, it seems desirable to march in open 
order. Inspector-General J. E. Taylor has given evidence to show that a 
close order of ranks is a cause of unhealthiness in marching, similar to that of 
overcrowding in barracks ; and the Medical Board of Bengal have, in accord- 
ance with this opinion, recommended that military movements in close order 
should be as little practised as possible.* 

Effects of Marches. Under ordinary conditions, both in cold and hot 
countries, men are healthy on the march. The exercise, the free air, the 
change of scene all do good. Under special circumstances, immense marches 
have been made by all armies. The French and Spanish are particularly good 
marchers, the British less so ; but they have occasionally made extraordinary 
efforts. 

One of the most celebrated in the annals of the British Army is the march 
made by the 43d, 53d, and 95th Regiments of Foot, under Crawfurd, in July 

* Chevers, op. cit,, p. 98. 



358 EXERCISE AND PHYSICAL TRAINING. 

1809, in Spain, in order to reinforce Sir Arthur Wellesley at the battle of 
Talavera. About fifty weakly men were left behind, and the brigade then 
marched sixty-two miles in twenty-six hours, carrying arms, ammunition, and 
pack in all, a weight of between 50 Ib and 60 ib.* There were only seven- 
teen stragglers. The men had been well trained in marching during the pre- 
vious month. 

One of these regiments the 52d made in India, in 1857, a march as 
extraordinary. In the height of the mutiny, intelligence reached them of the 
locality of the rebels from Sealkote. The 52d, and some artillery, started at 
night on the 10th of July 1857 from Umritzur, and reached Goodasepore, 
forty-two miles off, in twenty hours, some part of the march being in the sun. 
On the following morning they marched ten miles, and engaged the mutineers. 
They were for the first time clad in the comfortable gray or dust-coloured native 
Khakee cloth. 

Forced marching for some days may be also well borne by seasoned troops, 
as in the case of two companies of the 39th, which accomplished 195 miles 
in nine days ( 2T6 miles daily) in Canara in India, in the month of April, 
without a casualty. 

Thirty miles a-day for four or five days appear also to have been done by 
some European Regiments during the mutiny without loss at the time, though 
there was often much sickness afterwards. 

But marches are sometimes hurtful 

1st, When a single long and heavy march is undertaken when the men 
are overloaded, without food, and perhaps without water. Eiecke records two 
terrible marches of the Prussians. In 1778, the Prussian army by forced 
marches marched in four days to Dresden; each man carried a weight of 
80 ib ; the weather was hot ; the officers were afraid to let the men drink, 
and no care was taken to obviate the effects of the intense heat. They halted 
at mid-day on a burning plain where no water was procurable. " In one 
night the soldiers looked as if. they had aged ten years. Almost at every step 
lay a fainting man, and entire troops lay on the roadside. The horses also 
were ruined by this march ; almost every hundred steps lay a dead pack- 
horse. In such fashion the entire army marched in four days to Dresden, and 
getting there exhausted even to death, found the Saxon army fresh and lively." 

One other quotation from the same author gives a vivid picture of an ill- 
conducted march : 

" On the 21st May 1827 the Prussian corps of guards had a manoeuvre 
between Berlin and Potsdam. The soldiers were the night before disturbed 
with an alarm of fire, and had no rest. The day was very hot and the air was 
dry. The soldiers manoeuvred from Berlin to Potsdam (four German miles), 
and were in constant exercise. They had no rest, no refreshment, and the 
heat in the sandhills and pine woods was unbearable. They were not per- 
mitted to drink, for fear the cold drink when they were heated should injure 
them. Halting-places in hot sandy planes were therefore chosen, far from 
springs. The brandy flask that false friend of the soldier had indeed 
silenced thirst, but did not remove the necessity for water. 

u The consequences were that the 1st Regiment of Guards, and in a less 
degree the other regiments, was quite disorganised. They fell in sections on 

* Napier's "War in the Peninsula," 3d edit. vol. ii. p. 400 ; Moorsom's " Record of the 52d 
Regiment," p. 115. Both authors state that the men carried between 50 Ib and 60 Ib on this 
extraordinary march, but there seems a little doubt of this. During the Peninsular War, the 
men carried bags, weighing about 2 Ib, and not framed packs, and 'their kits were very scanty. 
Lord Clyde, in talking of this march to my colleague, Mr Longmore, told him the men only 
carried a shirt and a spare pair of either boots or soles. He saw the men march in. In all 
probability, also, they would not carry their full ammunition. 






MARCHES. 359 



the roads, and only recovered after a long time when refreshments were 

brought, and when the pack which compressed the chest so heavily was 

removed. 

. " Many died, and even the cavalry lost horses in the same way." 

I heard the celebrated Professor Champouillon of the Val de Grace mention 
in his lectures the following case : 

About twenty-five years ago a regiment of Chasseurs de Vincennes marched 
twelve miles into Paris on a hot July day. The men carried their packs and 
wore their stocks, which at that time were thick and stiff like the English 
stocks, and compressed their throat. Hardly a quarter of the men reached 
Paris ; the rest were left in the villages, or lying on the roadside. Many died 
of what was called coup de soleil. 

William Ferguson gives also a vivid picture of an ill-conducted march in 
St Domingo. The 67th Regiment were well supplied with rum, and were 
then marched through a dry rocky country, where no water was procurable. 
In a march of twelve miles men fell at every step ; nineteen died on the 
road, and the rest reached the end of the march in a state of indescribable 
exhaustion. 

The prevention of these catastrophes is easy. Place a soldier as much as 
possible in the position of the professional pedestrian ; let his clothes and 
accoutrements be adapted to his work ; supply him with water and proper 
food, and exclude spirits ; if unusual or rapid exertion is demanded, the 
weights must be still more lightened. 

When a soldier falls out on the march he will be found partially fainting, 
with cold moist extremities, a profuse sweat everywhere ; the pulse is very 
quick and weak often irregular ; the respiration often sighing. The weights 
should be removed, clothes loosened, the man laid on the ground, cold water 
dashed on the face, and water given to drink in small quantities. If the syn- 
cope is very dangerous, brandy must be used as the only way of keeping the 
heart acting, but a large quantity is dangerous. If it can be obtained, weak 
hot brandy and water is the best under these circumstances. When he has re- 
covered, the man must not march he should be carried in a waggon, and in 
a few minutes have something to eat, but not much at a time. Concentrated 
beef-tea mixed with wine is a powerful restorative, just as it is to wounded 
men on the field. 

2d, When the marches which singly are not too long are prolonged over 
many days or weeks without due rest. 

With proper halts men will march easily from 500 to 1000 miles, or even 
farther, or from twelve to sixteen miles per diem, and be all the better for it, 
but after the second or third weeks there must be one halt in the week 
besides Sunday. If not, the work begins to tell on the men ; they get out of 
condition, the muscles get soft, appetite declines, and there may be even a 
little anaemia. Both nerves and muscles are used too fast, and are not 
repaired. The same effects are produced with a much less quantity of work, 
if the food is insufficient. Bad food and insufficient rest are then the great 
causes of this condition of body. 

In such a state of body malarious fevers are intensified, and in India attacks 
of cholera are more frequent. It has been supposed that the body is overladen 
with the products of metamorphosis which cannot be oxidised fast enough to 
be removed. 

Directly the least trace of loss of condition begins to be perceived in the 
more weakly men (who are the tests in this case), the surgeon should advise 
the additional halt if military exigencies permit. On the halt day the men 
should wash themselves and their clothes, and parade, but should not drill. 



360 EXERCISE AND PHYSICAL TRAINING. 

3d, When special circumstances produce diseases. 

Exposure to wet and cold in temperate climates is the great foe of the sol- 
dier. As long as he is marching, no great harm results, and if at night he 
can have dry and warm lodgings, he can bear, when seasoned, great exposure. 
But if he is exposed night as well as day, and in war he often is so, and never 
gets dry, the hardiest men will suffer. Affections arising from cold, catarrhs, 
rheumatism, pulmonary inflammation, and dysentery are caused. 

These are incidental to the soldier's life, and can never be altogether 
avoided. But one great boon can be given to him ; a waterproof sheet, 
which can cover him both day and night, has been found the greatest comfort 
by those who have tried it. (See chapter on CLOTHING.) 

The soldier may have to march through malarious regions. The march 
should then be at mid-day in cold regions, in the afternoon in hot. The early 
morning marches of the tropics should be given up for the time ; the deadliest 
time for the malaria is at and soon after sunrise. If a specially deadly narrow 
district has to be got through, such as a Terai, at the foot of hills, a single 
long march should be ordered ; a thoroughly good meal, with wine, should be 
taken before starting, and if it can be done, a dose of quinine. If the troops 
must halt a night in such a district, every man should take five grains of qui- 
nine. Tents should be pitched in accordance with the rules laid down in the 
chapter on CAMPS, and the men should not leave them till the sun is well up 
in the heavens. 

Yellow fever or cholera may break out. The rules in both cases are the 
same. At once leave the line of march ; take a short march at right angles 
to the wind ; separate the sick men, and place the hospital tent to leeward ; 
let every evacuation and vomited matter be at once buried and covered with 
earth, and employ natives (if in India) to do this constantly, with a sergeant 
to superintend. Let every duty-man who goes twice to the rear in six hours 
report himself, and, if the disease be cholera, distribute pills of acetate of 
lead and opium to all the non-commissioned officers. Directly a man who 
becomes choleraic has used a latrine, either abandon it, or cover it with earth 
and lime if it can be procured. If there is carbolic acid or chloride of zinc, 
or lime or sulphate of zinc at hand, add some to every stool or vomit. 

In two days, whether the cholera has stopped or not, move two miles ; take 
care in the old camp to cover everything, so that it may not prove a focus of 
disease for others. The drinking water should be constantly looked to. A 
regiment should never follow one which carries cholera ; it should avoid towns 
where cholera prevails ; if it itself carries cholera, the men should not be al- 
lowed to enter towns. I know one instance (and many doubtless are known 
in India) where cholera was in this way introduced into a town. 

The men may suffer from insolation. This will generally be under three 
conditions.* Excessive solar heat in men unaccustomed to it and wrongly 
dressed, as in the case of the 98th in the first China war, when the men 
having just landed from a six months' voyage, and being buttoned up and 
wearing stocks, fell in numbers during the first short march. A friend who 
followed with the rearguard informed me that the men fell on their faces as 
if struck by lightning ; on running up and turning them, over, he found many 
of them already dead. They had, no doubt, struggled on to the last moment. 
This seems to be intense asphyxia, with sudden failure of the heart-action, 
and is the " cardiac variety " of Morehead. 

A dress to allow perfectly free respiration (freedom from pressure on chest 

* Of course 1 do not enter here into the pathology of this affection. For this I refer to the 
reat works of Morehead and Martin and Aitken. I look at it from a special point of view. 



MARCHES. 361 

and neck), and protection of the head and spine from the sun, will generally 
prevent this form. The head-dress may be wetted from time to time, a piece 
of w r et paper in the crown of the cap is useful. When the attack has occurred, 
cold affusion, artificial respiration, ammonia, and hot brandy and water to act 
on the heart seem the best measures. Bleeding is hurtful ; perhaps fatal. 
Old affusion must not be pushed to excess. 

In a second form the men are exposed to continued heat,* both in the sun 
and out of it, day and night, and the atmosphere is still, and perhaps moist, so 
that evaporation is lessened, or the air is vitiated. If much exertion is taken, 
the freest perspiration is then necessary to keep down the heat of the body; if 
anything checks this, and the skin gets dry, a certain amount of pyrexia oc- 
curs ; the pulse rises ; the head aches ; the eyes get congested ; there is a fre- 
quent desire to micturate (Longmore), and gradual or sudden coma, with per- 
haps convulsions and stertor, comes on, even sometimes when a man is lying 
quiet in his tent. The causes of the interruption to perspiration are not 
known ; it may be that the skin is acted upon in some way by the heat, and 
from being over-stimulated, at last becomes inactive. 

In this form cold affusion, ice to the head, and ice taken by the mouth, are 
the best remedies ; perhaps even ice water by the rectum might be tried. 
Stimulants are hurtful. The exact pathology of this form of insolation is un- 
certain. It is the cerebro-spinal variety of Morehead. 

In a third form a man is exposed to a hot land-wind ; perhaps, as many 
have seen, from lying drunk without cover. When brought in, there is gene- 
rally complete coma with dilated pupils, and a very darkly flushed face. After 
death the most striking point is the enormous congestion of the lungs, which 
is also marked, though less so, in the other varieties. Although I have dis- 
sected men in a very large number of diseases both in India and in England, 
I have never seen anything like the enormous congestion I have observed in 
two or three cases of this kind. 

As prevention of all forms, the following points should be attended to 
suitable clothing ; plenty of cold drinking water (Crawford) ; ventilation ; 
production in buildings of currents of air ; bathing ; avoidance of spirits ; 
lessening of exertion demanded from the men. 



SECTION VII. 
DUTIES OF MEDICAL OFFICEES DURING MARCHES. 

General Duties on Marches in India or the Colonies. Before commencing 
the march, order all men with sore feet to report themselves. See that all the 
men have their proper kits, neither more nor less. Every man should be pro- 
vided with a water-bottle to hold not less than a pint. Inspect halting- 
grounds, if possible ; see that they are perfectly clean, and that everything is 
ready for the men. In India, on some of the trunk roads there are regular 
halting-grounds set apart. The conservancy of these should be very carefully 
looked to, else they become nothing but foci for disseminating disease. If 
there are no such places, halting-grounds are selected. It should be a rule 
never to occupy an encamping ground previously used by another corps if it 
can be avoided ; this applies to all cases. Select a position to windward of 
such an old camp, and keep as far as possible from it. The encampment of 

* The heat of sandy plains is the worst, probably, from the great absorption of heat and the 
continued rarefaction. The heat of the sun, per se, is not so bad ; on board ship sun-stroke is 
most uncommon. 



362 EXERCISE AND PHYSICAL TRAINING. 

the transport department, elephants, camels, bullock carts, &c., must be looked 
to, they often are very dirty : keep them to leeward of the camp, not too near, 
and see especially that there is no chance of their contaminating streams sup- 
plying drinking water. If the encampment is on the banks of a stream, the pro- 
per place for the native camp and bazaar will always be lower down the stream. 
The junior medical officer, if he can be spared, should be sent forward for this 
purpose with a combatant officer. Advise on length of marches, halts, &c., 
and draw up a set of plain rules to be promulgated by the commanding officer, 
directing the men how to manage on the march if exposed to great heat or 
cold, or to long-continued exertion, how to purify water, clean their clothed, 
&c. If the march is to last some time, and if halts are made for two or three 
days at a time, write a set of instructions for ventilating and cleaning tents, 
regulations of latrines, &c. 

Special Duties for the March itself. Inspect the breakfast or morning re- 
freshment ; see that the men get their coffee, &c. On no account allow a 
morning dram, either in malarious regions or elsewhere. Inspect the water- 
casks, and see them properly placed, so that the men may be supplied; inspect 
some of the men to see that the water-bottles are full. March in rear of the 
regiment so as to pick up all the men that fall out, and order men who can- 
not march to be carried in waggons, dhoolies, &c., or to be relieved of their 
packs, &c. If there are two medical officers, the senior should be in rear ; if 
a regiment 'marches in divisions the senior is with the last (Reg. p. 34). 
When men are ordered either to be carried or to have their packs carried, 
tickets are to be given specifying the length of time they are to be carried, 
These tickets should be prepared before the march, so that nothing has to be 
done but to fill in the man's name, and the length he is to be carried. 

Special orders should be given that, at the halt, or at the end of the day's 
march, the heated men should not uncover themselves. They should take 
off their pack and belts, but keep on the clothes, and, if very hot, should put 
on their greatcoats. The reason of this (viz., the great danger of chill after 
exertion) should be explained to them. In an hour after the end of the 
march the men should change their underclothing, and hang the wet things 
up to dry ; when dry they should be shaken well, and put by for the follow- 
ing day. Some officers, however, prefer that their men should at once change 
their clothes and put o*n dry things. This is certainly more comfortable. 
But, at any rate, exposure must be prevented. 

It will be found that old soldiers eat very little while on the march ; the 
largest meal is taken at the end. 

At the end of the march inspect the footsore men. 

Footsoreness is generally a great trouble, and frequently arises from faulty 
boots, undue pressure, chafing, riding of the toes from narrow soles, &c. 
Rubbing the feet with tallow, or oil or fat of any kind,* before marching, is a 
common remedy. A good plan is to dip the feet in very hot water, before 
starting, for a minute or two ; wipe them quite dry, then rub them with soap 
(soft soap is the best), till there is a lather ; then put on the stocking. At 
the end of the day, if the feet are sore, they should be wiped with a wet 
cloth, and rubbed with tallow and spirits mixed in the palm of the hand 
(Galton). Pedestrians frequently use hot salt and water at night, and add a 
little alum. Sometimes the soreness is owing simply to a bad stocking ; this 
is easily remedied. Stockings should be frequently washed ; then greased. 
Some of the German troops use no stockings, but rags folded smooth over 

* An old prejudice gives the preference to stag's fat, hut there is little doubt all oils are 
equally effectual. 



the feel 



MA.KCHES. 363 



.e feet. This is a very good plan. Very often soreness is owing to ne- 
glected corns, bunions, or in-growing nails, and the surgeon must not despise 
the little surgery necessary to remedy these things ; nothing, in fact, can be 
called little if it conduces to efficiency. 

As shoes are often to blame for sore feet, it becomes a question whether it 
might not be well to accustom the soldier to do without shoes. (See section 
on Shoes.) 

Frequently men fall out on the march to empty the bowels ; the frequency 
with which men thus lagging behind the column were cut off by Arabs, led 
the French in Algeria to introduce the slit in the Zouave trousers, which 
require no unbuckling at the waist, and take no time for adjustment. 

At the long halt, if there is plenty of water, the shoes and stockings should 
be taken off, and the feet well washed ; even wiping with a wet towel is very 
refreshing. The feet should always be washed at the end of the march. 

Occasionally men are much annoyed with chafing between the nates or 
inside of the thighs. Sometimes this is simply owing to the clothes, but 
sometimes to the actual chafing of the parts. Powders are said to be the best 
flour, oxide of zinc, and above all, it is said, fuller's earth. 
If blisters form on the feet, the men should be directed not to open them 
during the march, but at the end of the time to draw a needle and thread 
through ; the fluid gradually oozes out. 

All footsore men should be ordered to report themselves at once. 

Sprains are best treated with rags dipped in cold water, or cold spirit and 
vater with nitre, and bound tolerably tightly round the part. Eest is often 
impossible. Hot fomentations, when procurable, will relieve pain. 

Marches, especially if hurried, sometimes lead men to neglect their bowels, 
and some trouble occurs in this way. As a rule it is desirable to avoid pur- 
gative medicines on the line of march, but this cannot always be done ; they 
should, however, be as mild as possible. 

Eobert Jackson strongly advised the use of vinegar and water as a refreshing- 
beverage, having probably taken this idea from the Eomans, who made vinegar 
one of the necessaries of the soldier. It was probably used by them as an 
anti-scorbutic ; whether it is very refreshing to a fatigued man I do not know. 

There is only one occasion when spirits should be issued on the march : 
this is on forced marches, near the end of the time, when the exhaustion is 
great. A little spirit, in a large quantity of hot water, may then be useful, 
but it should only be used on great emergency. Warm beer or tea is also 
good ; the warmth seems an important point. Eanald Martin tells us that in 
the most severe work in Burmah, in the hot months of April and May, and in 
the hot hours of the day, warm tea was the most refreshing beverage. This I 
found also from my own experience. Several friends have told me that both 
in India, and in bush travelling in Australia, there was nothing so reviving 
as warm tea. Chevers mentions that the juice of the country onion is useful 
in lessening thirst during marches in India, and that, in cases of sun-stroke, 
the natives use the juice of the unripe mangoe mixed with salt. 

Music on the march is very invigorating to tired men. Singing should also 
be encouraged as much as possible. 

Marching in India. Very little need be said in addition to the general 
rules just laid down. Marches take place in the cool season (November to 
February), and not in the hot or rainy seasons, except on emergency; yet 
marches have been made in hot weather without harm, when care is taken. 
They are conducted much in the same way as in cold countries, except that 
the very early morning is usually chosen. The men are roused about half-past 
two or three, and parade half an hour later ; the tents are struck, and carried 



364 EXERCISE AND PHYSICAL TRAINING. 

on by the tent-bearers ; coffee is served out, and the men march off by half- 
past three or four, and end at half-past seven. Everything is ready at the 
halting-ground, tents are pitched, breakfast is prepared. 

These very early marches are strongly advocated by many, and are opposed 
almost as strongly by some. Sir George Ballingall was of opinion that the 
disturbance of the men's sleep was worse than the exposure to the sun till ten 
or eleven o'clock would be. In the West Indies, marching in the sun has 
always been more common than in the East. Much, perhaps, must depend 
on the locality, and the prevalence and time of hot land-winds. (See CLIMATE.) 
In malarious districts there can be no question that the early morning is the 
worst time ; in the heat of the day the risk of malaria is trifling. 

Both in India and Algeria marches have been made at night; the evidence 
of the effects of this is discordant. The French have generally found it did 
not answer ; men bear fatigue less well at night ; and it is stated that the 
admissions into hospital have always increased among the French after night 
inarching. Annesley's authority is also against night marching in India. On 
the other hand, I have been informed that in India the march through the 
cool moonlight night has been found both pleasant and healthy. 

Afternoon marches (commencing about two hours before sunset) have been 
tried in India, and, I believe, often with very good results. It seems very 
desirable to give this plan a fair trial. 

The halting-grounds in India are generally indicated beforehand by the 
Quartermaster-General's department, -and on some of the trunk roads there 
are regular walled spaces set apart for this purpose. 

Marching in Canada. In 1814, during the war with America ; in 1837, 
during the rebellion ; and, in 1861-62, during the " Trent" excitement, winter 
marches were made by the troops, in all cases without loss. The following 
winter clothing was issued at home, a sealskin cap with ear lappets ; a 
woollen comforter ; two woollen jersies ; two pair woollen drawers ; a 
chamois leathern vest with arms ; two pair long woollen stockings to draw 
over the boots ; sealskin mits, and a pair of jackboots. In Canada a pair of 
blankets and moccasons were added,* and, at the long halts, weak hot rum 
and water was served out. A quarter of a pound of meat was added to the 
ration. A hot meal was given before starting, another at mid-day, and 
another at night. They were extremely healthy, only 70 men were admitted 
into the hospitals on route out of a strength of 6818 ; there were 11 cases of 
frostbite, and 7 of pneumonia. During exposure to cold, spirits must be 
avoided ; warm coffee, tea, ginger tea, or warm weak wine and water, are the 
best. In all cases the warmth of the drink is important. 

During great exposure to cold it is a good plan to rub the hands, feet, face, 
and neck with oil ; it appears to lessen the radiation of heat and the cooling 
effect of winds. Alpine travellers find a piece of blotting paper, cut to the 
shape of the sole of the foot and placed in the stocking, a good plan. 

* See Inspector-General Muir's Report Army Medical Report, vol. v. p. 378. 



CHAPTER XIII. 
CLOTHING. 



Regulations. No specific instructions are laid down in the Medical Regula- 
tions respecting clothing, but the spirit of the general sanitary rules necessarily 
includes this subject also. When an army takes the field, the Director- 
General is directed to issue a code for the guidance of medical officers, in 
which clothing is specifically mentioned (p. 82) ; and the sanitary officer with 
the force is ordered to give advice in writing to the commander of the forces, 
on the subject; of clothing among other things (p. 84). 

Formerly a certain sum, intended to pay for the clothing of the men, was 
allotted by Government to the colonels of regiments. This was a relic of the 
old system by which regiments were raised viz., by permitting certain per- 
sons to enlist men, and assigning to them a sum of money for all expenses. 
The colonel employed a contractor to find the clothes, and received from him 
the surplus of the money after all payments had been made. A discretionary 
power rested with the service officers of the regiment, who could reject im- 
proper and insufficient clothing, and thus the interests of the soldier were in 
part protected.* The system was evidently radically bad in principle, and, 
since the Crimean War, the Government has been gradually taking this 
department into its own hands, and a large establishment has been formed 
at Pimlico, where the clothing for a certain number of regiments is pre- 
pared. This system has worked extremely well ; the materials have been 
both better and cheaper, and important improvements have been and are still 
being introduced into the make of the garments, which cannot fail to increase 
the comfort and efficiency of the soldier, t 

At the Pimlico depot the greatest care is taken to test all the materials and 
the making up of the articles ; the viewers are skilled persons, who are in no 
way under the influence of contractors. 

In January 1865 a warrant was issued;}; containing the regulations for the 
clothing of the army. 

SECTION I. 

When a soldier enters the army he is supplied gratis with his complete kit ; 
some articles are subsequently supplied by Government, others he makes good 
himself. In the infantry of the line a careful soldier can keep his kit in good 

* But this safeguard was not sufficient. Officers are not judges of excellence of cloth ; for 
this it requires special training. As Robert Jackson said fifty years ago : " Soldiers' clothing is 
inspected and approved by less competent judges than those' who purchase for themselves." 

t Much is owing to the exertions of Sir Thomas Troubridge, C.B., and Colonel Daubeny, C.B., 
who have had the organisation of this important establishment. 

J Revised Royal Clothing Warrant, 1865. 



366 CLOTHING. 

order at a cost of about L. 1 per annum. The following are the articles of the 
kit supplied to the infantry recruit : 

Articles of the Kit (Infantry] supplied to a Soldier on joining, and afterwards 
kept up at his own expense. 



1 Forage cap. 
1 Shell-jacket. 

1 Stock. 

2 Flannel shirts.* 

3 Pairs socks. 
2 Towels. 

1 Knapsack. 

2 Pairs boots. 
1 Pair braces. 
1 Comb. 



1 Eazor. 

Mitts. 

Knife, fork, and spoon. 

Sponge. 

Blacking (one tin). 

1 Clothes-brush. 

2 Shoe-brushes. 

1 Shaving-brush. 
1 Button-stick. 
1 Hold-all. 



To the Army Hospital Corps and Artillery, a waterproof bag, for part of the 
kit, is also issued, to each man. Squad bags are also issued to infantry, four 
to each company. 

Certain articles are also issued free of expense at stated intervals. For the 
particulars of these, reference must be made to the Eoyal Warrant of 1865, 
where they are stated in detail. The following are the articles issued to the 
line infantry soldier at home : 

One chaco and cover, . . . . Triennially. 

One tunic, ....... Annually. 

One pair cloth trousers, Annually. 

One pair serge trousers in line regiments, or one ) p. . -.-. 

pair tartan trousers in rifle regiments, . . / 
Two pair of boots, one on 1st April and one on ) A 

1st October, . . . . . . JAnnnally. 

One silk sash for Serjeants, .... Every two years. 

One worsted sash for Serjeants, .... Every two years. 

In India and the^ West Indies, and other tropical stations, light clothing of 
different kinds is used drill trousers and calico jackets, or in India complete 
suits of the khakee, a native grey or dust-coloured cloth, or tunics of red serge, 
and very light cloth. The khakee is said not to wash well, and white drill 
is superseding it. The English dress is worn on certain occasions, or in certain 
stations. Formerly the home equipment was worn even in the south of India ; 
but now the dress is much better arranged, and also differences of costume for 
different places and different times of the year are being introduced. 

During Campaigns extra clothing is issued according to circumstances. In 
the Crimea the extra clothing was as follows for each man : 



2 Jersey frocks. 
2 Woollen drawers. 
2 Pairs woollen socks. 
2 Pairs woollen mitts. 



1 Cholera belt. 
1 Fur cap. 
1 Tweed lined coat. 
1 Comforter. 



To each regiment also a proportion of sheepskin coats was allowed for 
sentries. 

The warrant of 1865 orders the following articles of clothing to be issued 
to every 100 men proceeding on active service in cold, temperate, or hot 
climates : 

* By a late circular, November 1865, flannel shirts only are ordered to be supplied to the 
recruit. 



Sheepskin coats, 

Fur caps, 100 

Woollen comforters, . . . 100 

Shirts, grey flannel, ... 200 

Jerseys, blue, 100 



.CLOTHING. 367 

1. In cold climates 

Per 100 effectives. Per 100 effectives. 



Stockings, woollen, . pairs, 200 
Drawers, flannel, . . 200 
Cholera belts, flannel, 200 
Mittens, lined with lambskin 
or fur, .... pairs, 100 



Boots, knee, brown leather, pairs, 100 

2. In temperate climates 



Shirts, flannel, of alight texture, 200 
Cholera belts, when not included 



Waterproof capes, .... 10 

Watch coats, 3 

in the voyage kit, . . . 200 

3. In tropical climates 

Shirts, flannel, of lightest texture, ..... 200 

Chaco covers, of white cotton, except in climates where the wicker ) , 
helmet and " Puggaree" (turban) are to be worn, . . J 

Forage cap covers, of white cotton, 100 

Frock coats, of red, green, or blue serge, when not supplied as \if\f\ 

ordinary clothing of these climates, ..... j 
Cholera belts, of flannel, when not part of the sea kit, . . 200 
Capes, waterproof, 10 

SECTION" II. 

OBJECTS OF CLOTHING. 

The objects of clothing are to protect against cold and against warmth ; all 
other uses will be found to resolve themselves into one or other of these. 

The subject naturally divides itself into two parts 1st, The materials of 
clothing ; and 2d, The make of the garments. 

SUB-SECTION I. MATERIALS OF CLOTHING. 

The following only will be described : Cotton, linen, jute, wool, leather, 
and india-rubber. 

Cotton Microscopic Characters. A 'diaphanous substance forming fibres 
about ^L^th of an inch in diameter, flattened in shape, and riband-like, with 
an interior canal which is often obliterated, or may contain some extractive 
matters, borders a little thickened, the fibres twisted at intervals (about 600 
times in an inch). It has been stated that the fresh cotton fibre is a cylin- 
drical hair with thin walls, which collapses arid twists as it becomes dry. 
Iodine stains them brown ; iodine and sulphuric acid (in very small quantities) 
give a blue or violet blue ; nitric acid does not destroy them ; liquor potassse 
dissolves them. 

As an Article of Dress. The fibre of cotton is exceedingly hard, it wears 
well, does not shrink in washing, is very non-absorbent of water (either into 
its substance, or between the fibres), and conducts heat rather less rapidly 
than linen, but much more rapidly than wool.* 

The advantages of cotton are cheapness and durability ; its hard noii- 
absorbent fibre places it far below wool as a warm water-absorbing clothing. 

* Late experiments have been made on the conducting power of materials by Coulier (Pro- 
fessor of Chemistry at the Val de Grace), and by Dr Hammond (Surgeon-General, United States 
army). In both cases a polished metallic vessel was filled with hot water of a known tempera- 
ture, a delicate thermometer inserted, and the vessel was hung in an empty room ; the time 



368 



CLOTHING. 



Iii the choice of cotton fabrics there is not much to be said ; smoothness, even- 
ness of texture, and equality of spinning, are the chief points. 

In cotton shirting and calico, cotton is alone used ; in merino and other 
fabrics it is used with wool, in the proportion of 20 to 50 per cent, of wool, 
the threads being twisted together to form the yarn. 





Fig. 92. Cotton x 285. Fig. 93. Linen x 285. 

Linen Microscopic Characters. The fibres are finer than those of cotton, 
diaphanous, cylindrical, and presenting little swellings at tolerably regular 
intervals. The elementary fibres (of which the main fibre is composed) can 
be often seen in these swellings, and also at the end of broken threads which 
have been much used. The hemp fibre is something like this, but much 
coarser, and at the knots it separates often into a number of smaller fibres. 
Silk is a little like linen, but finer, and with much fewer knots. 



required for cooling to a given point, 
fabrics, was noted by the observer at a 

Conner's Experiments. 
Time required for cooling from 122 C 
to 104 Fahr. 

Min 

Vessel uncovered, . . .18 
covered with cotton shirting, 11 
,, ,, linings, 11 

,, ,, hemp lining, 11 

,, blue woollen cloth 

for uniforms, 14 

,, ,, red do., for uni- 

forms, . 14 

,, ,, blue do., for 

greatcoats, 15 



when the vessel was iincovered and covered by different 
, distance with a magnifying glass. 

Hammond's Experiments. 
Fahr. Time required for cooling from 150 Fahr. 

to 140 Fahr. 

. Sec. Min. Sec. 

12 Vessel uncovered, . . . 15 11 

30 ,, covered with cotton shirting, 9 42 

15 linen shirting, 7 24 

25 white flannel, 12 35 

dark blue wool- 

45 len cloth, 14 5 

., ,, light blue wool - 

50 len cloth, 13 50 




MATERIALS. 



369 



As an article of Clothing. Linen conducts heat and absorbs water slightly 
better than cotton. It is a little smoother than cotton. As an article of 
clothing it may be classed with it. In choosing linen regard is had to the 




Fig. 94. Silk x 285. Scale on page 368. 

evenness of the threads, and to the fineness and closeness of the texture. The 
colour should be white, and the surface glossy. Starch is often used to give 
glossiness. This is detected by iodine, and removed by the first washing. 

Jute. As jute is now being very largely used, it is possible it may be 
employed as a falsification of linen or cotton. Jute is obtained from the 




Fig. 95. Jute United and single elongated cellular fibres. Resinous (?) matter adhering 
more or less to all the fibres. 

Corchorus capsularis, and comes to England from Eussia and India. The 
fibres are of a considerable length, are hollow, thickened, and with narrow- 



370 



in^'s and Constriction! 111 the, tubular portions, sometimes an air bubble may 
be in the fibre, as shown in the. drawing. The drawing, which, as well as the 

above description, I owe, to Dr Maddox, shows flic differences between the 

jute, and cotton or linen. 

Wool Mi<T<>xr<>i>!<- <'hnr<i<-l,'i-x. Hound fibres, transparent, or a, little lia/y, 
colourless. The fibre is. made up of ;| number of little, cornets, which have 
become united. There arc. very evident slightly oblique cross mail 
which indicate the, bases of the cornets; and at these, points the, libre, is very 
slightly larger. There are a.lso line longitudinal markings. There, is a, canal, 
but it is often obliterated. When old and worn, the fibre breaks up info 
librilla-; and, at tin; same time, the, slight prominence, at the cross markings 
disappears, and even the mark ings become indistinct. I'.y these c.ha.racters 
lised. Si/e, of fibres varies, but, an average is given 
est Wools have the smallest, fibres. 

An mi Arlirlc of (!/n/ Ju'tlff. Wool is a, ba.d 
'i conductor of heat a.nd a, grea.t absorber of 
Water. The wafer penetrates into the libres 
them elves, and distends them (hygroscopic 
water), and a, I so lies between them (water of 
interposition). In these, respects it is greatly 
superior to either cotton or linen, its power 
of hygroscopic a.bsorpfion bcine at least, double 
in proportion to its weij-hf, and ipiadni|ile in 
proportion to its surface. 

This property of hygroscopically absorbing 
water is a most, important one. I hiring per 
spirafion the evaporation from the surface of 
the. body is necessary to reduce the heat which 

is generated by the exercise. When the e.\ 
e.rcise is finished, the evaporation .still goes on, 
and, as already noticed, to such an extent as 
to chill the frame. W hen dry ffOOllenclothing 
is put on after exertion, the vapour from the 
surface of the, body is condensed in the wool, 
and "i\ cs out a; '.a in I lie Large amount of heat 
which had become latent when the water was 
vaporised. Then-lore, a. woollen covering, from 

this cause a.h , at once feels warm when used 

during sweating. In the ease, of cotton and 
linen the perspiration passes through them, 
and evaporates from the external surface 

facts make it 




Fig. Ofl.- Wool x 286. 

Hmlr. ,,;! li iii.-.h. 

without condensation ; the lo.ss of heat then 
plain why dry woollen clothes arc so use 

I n addition to this, the texture of wo< 
power, a.nd it is less easily penetrated by < 
is the way in which its soft libre shrink? 
libre beeo s smaller, harder, and proba. 

Ill the choice of woollen llllderclothil 
should bo I 
should be 



These 

ill iij'tcr exertion, 
is wanner, from its bad conducting 

Id winds. The, disadvantage of wool 

from washing, and after a time the 

iv less absorbent 

; the touch is a ^reat j^uide. There 

fhness and I'Teat softness, of texture,; to the, eye the. texture 
; the hairs ..landing out from the surface of equal Length, not 



l"ii;' and I ra-'din^. The, heavier the substance is, in a ^i veil bulk, the belter, 
lii the case of blankets, the softness, thickness, and closeness of the pile, the 
closeness of the texture, and the weight of the blanket, are the best guides. 
In woollen cloth the rules are the same. When held against the litflit, the 



MATKKIALS. .''71 

doth .should lie. ul' uniform texture, without holes ; when folded and suddenly 
stretched, it, should give a, dear ringing note ; it should he, very resistant 
when stretched with violence.; the "tearing power" is the best, perhaps the 
only way of judging if " flihoddy " (old use.d ;md workod-up wool ;md e,lol,h) 
lia.s he.e.ii mixed with fresh wool. At the ( Joveriiment ('lothing Kstablish 
ment ;it I'indieo, a machine is used which marks tin; exact weight necessary 
to tear across a piece of cloth. A certain weight must bo borne by every 
piece of cloth. 
The dye, also muftt bo good, and of tho kind named in tho contract, and 

tests must lie applied. 

Lcnllu r. Choice of leather; it should be woll tanned, arid without any 

marks of corrosion, or attacks of insed, . The thinner kind should he per 

fcefly Sllpple. 

L' ;it her is not only used for shoes, loggings, and accoutrements; it j ,. 
employed occasionally for coats and trousers. It in a,n extremely warm 
clothing, as no wind blows through it, and is therefore, well adapted |,,r 
old, windy climates. Leather or sheepskin mats are very common in Turkey, 
Tartary, I'ersiu, the, hanubian Provinces, a,nd everywhere whe.re, the cold 
north witids are, felt. In ( 'anada, coats of sheepskin or bulfalo hide, have, hee.n 
found very useful, and arc commonly use.d for sentries. 

I u< I 'a i rulilicr (llolltuty. Lik(5 leathern articles, the india-rubber is an ex- 
ceedingly hot dress, owinj4 to the, same, causes, viz., impermeability to wind, 
and condensation and retention, of perspiration. It is objected to by many 
on these, grounds, and especially the, latter; ;md Levy informs us that the. 
Council of Health of the I'Ycnch Army have persistently refused (and in hi. 
opinion, very properly) the introduction of waterproof garments into the, army. 
If, however, woollen underthings are. worn, the perspimtion is sufficiently 
absorbed by the.se during the comparatively short time waterproof clothing in 
worn, and the objection is probably not valid, unless tho waterproof is con 
tinually worn. 

The groat use of waterproof is, of course, its protection against rain, and in 
this respect it is invaluable to the soldier, and should bo largely used. By 
the side, of this great use, all its defects appear to me, to be, minor evils. 

India, rubber cloth loses in part its distensibility in ve.ry cold countries, and 
becomes too distensible in tins tropics. 

General Conclusions. 

I 'r< >!<'< lion against Cold. For equal thicknesses, wool is much superior to 
cither cotton or linen, and should be worn for all underclothing. In case of 
extreme cold, besides wool, leather or waterproof clothing is useful. Cotton 
ami linen are nearly eojiial. 

I'mln-Hnii. luju.hixl //ctif. Texture ha:-: nothing to do with protection, from 
the, direct solar rays; this depends entirely on. colour. White, is tho best 
colour; then grey, yellow, pink, blue., black. In hot countries, therefore, 
white, or light grey clothing should be, chosen. 

In the sha.de., the effect of colour is not marked. Tho thickness, and the 
conducting power of the, material, are, the, conditions (especially MM-, former; 
which influence heat. 

/'rttfcrft'uit df/tit'n.':/. Cold Winds. For equal thicknesses, leather and india- 
rubber take tho first rank ; wool the second ; cotton and linen about equal. 

Absorption <>f /Vy.:/,//-'///'//,. Wool has more, than double tin; power of 
cotton and linen. 

i. <>J' O//o////w.- This partly depends on colour ; and Stark's obser 
show that the, power of absorption is in this order- black, blue, red, 

2 A -2 



372 CLOTHING. 

green, yellow, white. As far as texture is concerned, the absorption is in 
proportion to the hygroscopic absorption, and wool therefore absorbs more 
than cotton or linen. 

Protection against Malaria. It has been supposed that wearing flannel 
next the skin lessens the risk of malaria. As it is generally supposed that 
the poison of malaria enters either by the lungs or stomach, it is difficult to 
see how protection to the skin can prevent its action ; except indirectly, by 
preventing chill in persons who have already suffered from ague. But the 
very great authority of Andrew Combe, drawn from experience at Koine, is in 
favour of its having some influence ; and it has been used on the west coast 
of Africa for this purpose, with apparently good results. 

SUB-SECTION II. MAKE OP GARMENTS. 

Special Articles of Soldiers' Clothing. 

It will be convenient to divide clothing into two sections 1st, Under- 
clothing ; 2d, Outer clothing. In both cases, these articles of clothing must 
answer their purpose, which is protection from cold or from warmth, without 
at all interfering with the freest action of muscles or the circulation of the 
blood, and without pressing on any important part. 

1. Underclothing, viz., vests, drawers, shirts, stockings, flannel belts, &c. 

The soldier, as a rule, wears as underclothing only a calico shirt and socks. 
He is obliged to have in his kit either three calico or two flannel shirts. As 
the calico shirts are cheaper to keep up, he generally prefers these. Some 
regiments, however, have the custom of using only flannel shirts. 

The majority of army surgeons recommend the flannel in place of the cotton 
shirt, and advise that it shall be of grey colour. Pringle, Robert Jackson, 
Sir James M'Grigor, Ballingall, Eanald Martin, Norman Chevers, and many 
other surgeons dead and living, have spoken strongly on this point. On the 
other hand, some army surgeons, of whom Luscombe may be considered the 
most authoritative, have objected to the use of flannel, chiefly on the ground 
of the difficulty of cleaning it. 

There can be no doubt, I believe, that all theoretical considerations are in 
favour of the use of flannel ; and there is much practical evidence of its use. 
For the soldiers' life of exertion it would seem peculiarly fitted. The objec- 
tions to it are these : Flannel shirts require more washing than calico, and 
are less easily and more expensively washed. In time of war, when water is 
scarce, they get very dirty, and becoming impregnated with perspiration and 
cuticle, they become very offensive. Woollen clothes are probably the chief 
media by which animal poisons are carried when they are conveyed in clothes. 

In time of war, flannel shirts may be partially cleaned in this way : The 
soldier should wear one and carry one ; every night he should change ; hang 
up the one he takes off to dry, and in the morning beat it out and shake it 
thoroughly. In this way much dirt is got rid of. He should then carry this 
shirt in his pack during the day, and substitute it for the other at night. If 
in addition great care is taken to have washing parades as often as possible, 
the difficulty of cleaning would be avoided. 

Another objection to flannel is, that it shrinks in washing, becomes hard, 
rucks up, and causes irritation. This can be avoided in part, by choosing 
good, soft flannel, and shrinking it before making up.* Some new flannels, 

* It is well worth consideration whether the introduction of 20 or 30 per cent, of cotton 
would not obviate the shrinking of flannel, and so do away with one objection. 



GARMENTS. 373 

however, are irritating, "because the bases of the little cornets project some- 
what on the surface ; washing will remove this. Without overlooking the 
objections to flannel, it seems to me that they by no means set aside its great 
advantages, and that the objections are chiefly of detail, and can be avoided 
by care. A grey flannel is now issued by the Clothing Department at Pim- 
lico, which seems to be a most excellent fabric. Grey seems to be the best 
colour for flannel. It has been objected to as concealing dirt, but the white 
flannel, even when not really dirty, soon looks so, and has a bad appearance, 
and a dirty grey flannel can really be easily detected. 

For hot countries, the common English flannels are much too thick and 
irritating ; flannel must be exceedingly fine, or what is perhaps better, merino 
hosiery, which contains from 20 to 50 per cent. of cotton,* could be used. 
The best writers on the hygiene of the tropics (Chevers, Jeffreys, Moore) have 
all recommended flannel. 

.The soldier wears no drawers, but in reality it is just as important to cover 
the legs, thighs, and hips with flannel as the upper part of the body. Drawers 
folding well over the abdomen form, with the long shirt, a double fold of 
flannel over that important part, and the necessity of cholera belts or kummer- 
bunds is avoided. Cholera belts are made of flannel, and fold twice over the 
abdomen. 

The soldiers' socks are of cotton ; it would be desirable to have them either 
all of wool, or half cotton half wool ; they should be well shrunken before 
being fitted on. It has been proposed to divide the toes, but this seems an 
unnecessary refinement. It has been proposed to do away with stockings 
altogether, but with the system of wearing shoes, it is difficult to keep the 
feet perfectly clean. The boots get impregnated with perspiration. Some of 
the German troops, instead of stockings, fold pieces of calico across the foot 
when marching ; when carefully done, this is comfortable, but not, I believe, 
really better than a good sock kept clean. 

2. Outer Garments. The clothes worn by the different arms of the service, 
and by different regiments in the same branch, are so numerous and diverse, 
that it is impossible to describe them. In many cases, taste, or parade, or 
fantasy simply, has dictated the shape or the material. And diversities of 
this kind are especially noticeable in times of peace. When war comes with 
its rude touch, everything which is not useful disappears. What can be 
easiest borne, what gives the most comfort and the greatest protection, is soon 
found out. The arts of the tailor and the orders of the martinet are alike 
disregarded, and men instinctively return to what is at the same time most 
simple and most useful. It will be admitted that the soldier intended for war 
should be always dressed as if he were to be called upon the next moment to 
take the field. Everything should be as simple and effective as possible ; 
utility, comfort, durability, and facility of repair, are the principles which 
should regulate all else. The dress should not be encumbered by a single orna- 
ment, or embarrassed by a single contrivance which has not its use. Elegant 
it may be, and should be, for the useful does, not exclude, indeed often im- 
plies, the beautiful, but to the eye of the soldier it can be beautiful only when 
it is effective, t 

Head-Dress. The head-dress is used for protection against cold, wet, heat, 
and light. It must be comfortable ; as light as is consistent with durability ; 

* Just before the cotton famine, I got some fine merino hosiery made of a kind suitable for 
India. I found that, with 40 per cent, of cotton, a fabric could be got of an excellent quality, 
and within the price of the soldier. 

t 1 La tenue. dans laquelle le militaire est pret a marcher a 1'ennemi. est ton jours belle 
(Vaidy). 



37-4 CLOTHING. 

not press on the head, and not be too close to the hair ; it should permit some 
movement of air over the head, and therefore openings, not admitting rain, 
must be made, and should present as little surface as possible to the wind, so 
that in rapid movements it may meet the least amount of resistance. In some 
cases, it must be rendered strong for defence ; but the conditions of modern 
war are rendering this less necessary. 

As it is of great importance to reduce all the dress of the soldier to the 
smallest weight and bulk, it seems desirable to give only one head-dress, 
instead of two, as at present. Kemembering the conditions of his life, his 
exposure, and his night-work, the soldier's head-dress should be adapted for 
sleeping in as well as for common day-work. Another point was brought 
into notice by the Crimean War ; in all articles of clothing, it much facilitates 
production, lessens expense, and aids distribution, if the different articles of 
clothing of an army are as much alike as possible ; even for the infantry, it 
was found difficult to keep up the proper distribution of the different insignia 
of regiments. 

Head- Dress of the Infantry. The present head-dresses are the bearskin 
caps for the Guards, busbys for the Foot Artillery and Engineers, the High- 
land bonnets and shakos for the Line, and forage-caps made of cloth for all. 

Nothing can be said in favour of the bearskin. Its shelter from rain is 
imperfect, it does not protect the eyes from light, it is very hot, it is ex- 
tremely high, opposes a great surface to the air, and weighs 37 ounces. It 
is not even an imposing head-dress, because it destroys the idea which should 
at once arise in looking at the soldier of mixed force and rapidity. In 1854, 
the embarkation of the Guards for Malta was delayed some days in order that 
the bearskins might be lowered. It is, however, stated that the Guards were 
the only regiments who did not throw away their shakos in the Crimea ; still, 
there might be other reasons for this, such as the esprit de corps, and the 
chance of paying for the bearskin. The head-dress of the Artillery and 
Engineers is the busby, neither a showy nor an useful article. 

The Scotch bonnets of the Highlanders are very showy, but no Highlander 
ever carried the large feather, which destroys the very character of the cap, 
and renders it heavy and difficult to carry in high winds. The single feather 
for officers would be much better. The shako of the Infantry of the Line has 
undergone many changes. Some of the old shakos are most extraordinary ; 
excessively weighty, conical in shape, with the base upwards, so as to be 
top-heavy. In former years, I have seen men, when at the double, keeping 
their heads quite stiff to prevent their shakos rolling off, or holding the 
shakos with their hands. The wind caught shakos of this kind, and the men 
were obliged to have their chin-straps as tight as possible to keep them on. 
The Albert hat was an immense improvement ; it was lighter, of a fair shape, 
and with a rim behind to prevent the rain from trickling down the back. Men, 
however, could not sleep in it. Even this shako was so incommodious that 
the men threw it away in the Crimea, and campaigned in their forage caps. 

The present shako is the best that has ever been issued ; it is made of two 
pieces of waterproof cloth, sewn together by the sewing-machine ; its shape is 
slightly conical ; its height is 4 inches in front, 6 \ behind ; weight, 9f ounces, 
including the ball and brass plate, which weigh If ounces. The oilskin cover 
weighs in addition 1J ounces. The peak is horizontal, and measures 2J 
inches. There is no rim behind to direct off the rain, but the lower edge of 
the cap comes well down over the head. Another shako has been partly 
issued, made of cloth and calico, with a thin sheeting of cork. This weighs 
only 6J ounces, but is said to be too expensive for use. 

Great as the improvement is over the old dresses, it may be questioned 




GARMENTS. 375 

whether another change still may not be desirable. Without copying the 
French kepi or the fez, to which there are many objections, a model of a 
head-dress is already naturalised among us. 

The Glengarry Scotch cap, with a peak and a waterproof falling flap behind, 
and with ear-flaps, to be put down in case of rain, or in sleeping out at night, 
has these great advantages. It is very soft and comfortable, presses nowhere 
on the head, has sufficient height above the hair, and can be ventilated by 
openings if desired; it cannot be blown off; it can be carried at the top of 
the head when desired in hot weather, or pulled down completely over the 
forehead and ears in cold ; with a large flap behind, and ear-flaps, it makes 
what the soldier wants, a comfortable night-cap, sheltering the back and 
sides of the neck as well as the head. It is also both an elegant and a na- 
tional head-dress. Divested of the showy but objectionable feather, which 
has been foisted in the Highland regiments on the original bonnet, it would 
be the best head-dress in any army for temperate and subtropical climates, 
arid might be used both for shako and forage cap. 

The peak of the shako in the English army was worn quite horizontally 
about thirty-five years ago ; it was then made almost vertical, and is now 
horizontal again. It is perhaps now too horizontal, as it does not shade the 
eyes at all when the sun is low ; a moderate curve would be better. 

Head-Dress of the Cavalry. The Horse Artillery and Cavalry carry helmets 
and caps of different kinds. 

The shape of the helmet in the Guards and heavy dragoons is excellent. 
It is not top-heavy ; offers little surface to the wind ; and has sufficient but 
not excessive height above the head. The material, however, is objectionable. 
The metal intended for defence makes the helmet very hot and heavy ; and the 
helmet of the Cavalry of the Guard weighs 55 ounces avoir. ; that of the 
Dragoon Guards, 39 ounces (in 1864). But as every ounce of unnecessary 
weight is additional unnecessary work thrown on the man and his horse, it 
is very questionable whether more is not lost than is gained by the great 
weight caused by the metal. Leather is now often substituted in some armies, 
where the cavalry helmets are being made extremely light. 

The Lancer cap weighs 34J ounces ; the Hussar, 29f ounces. Both are 
dresses of fantasy. The Lancer cap, except for its weight, is the better of the 
two ; is more comfortable ; shades the eyes ; throws off rain better ; and offers 
less resistance to moving air than the Hussar cap. 

The undress or forage cap of all corps is a cloth cap, with or without a 
peak, and varying in shape and kind, according to the regiment, and weigh- 
ing about 5 ounces. With a good simple shako, it would seem unnecessary 
for the infantry to have a second cap. 

In Canada, a fur cap is used, with flaps for the ears and sides of the face 
and neck. 

In India, many contrivances have been used. Up to the year 1842, little 
attention seems to have been paid to the head-dress of the infantry, and the 
men commonly wore their European forage caps. In 1842, Lord Hardinge 
issued an order, that white cotton covers should be worn over all caps ; subse- 
quently, a flap to fall down over the back of the neck was. added. The effect 
of the cotton cover is to reduce the temperature of the air in the hat about 
4 to 7 Fahr. Although a great improvement, it is not sufficient. 

Afterwards, other plans came into use. Pith and bamboo wicker helmets, 
covered with cotton, have been much used ; especially the latter, which are 
very light, durable, not easily put out of shape, and cheap. The rim should not 
be horizontal, but inclined, so as to protect from the level rays of the sun. The 
pith, or " Sola" hats, appear to be decidedly inferior to the wicker helmets; and 



376 CLOTHING. 

men have had sun-stroke while wearing them. It seems improbable that any- 
thing better than the wicker hat will be devised; but the suggestions which 
have been made are numerous. It has been proposed to have a bright metallic 
surface to reflect the heat;* but no metal can be provided except aluminium 
which is light enough, and aluminium is at present much too expensive. A 
modification of the Chinaman's or Malay's cap has been proposed. In this 
cap, a small flat band passes round the head ; and thin uprights from this 
support a sort of dome, made of pith or intertwined bamboo, covered with 
cotton. The sides of the dome come down low enough to shield the eyes and 
the side of the head. The band does not adhere very firmly to the head, and 
the cap blows off easily ; but the ventilation of the head is excellent. The 
Malay cap has an exceedingly wide rim, which gives capital shelter, but is not 
convenient. 

The turban has never been much worn in India by the English. It requires 
some time and care to put on ; and if not well arranged, is hotter than the 
wicker helmet. 

In the French infantry, the shako is now made of leather and pasteboard, 
and is divested of all unnecessary ornament, so as to be as light as it can be. 
It covers well back on the head, being prolonged, as it were, over the occi- 
pital protuberance. 

In Algeria, the Zouaves, Spahis, and Tirailleurs wear the red fez, covered 
with a turban of cotton. In Cochin-China, the French have adopted the 
bamboo wicker helmet of the English. 

The natural hair of the head is a very great protection against heat. Various 
customs prevail in the East. Some nations shave the head, and wear a large 
turban ; others, like the Burmese, wear the hair long, twist it into a knot at 
the top of the head, and face the sun with scarcely any turban. The China- 
man's tail is a mere mark of conquest. The European in India generally has 
the hair cut short, on account of cleanliness and dust. A small wet hand- 
kerchief, or piece of calico, carried in a cap with good ventilation, may be 
used with advantage ; and especially in a hot land-wind cools the head greatly. 

Cravat or Neckcloth. Eew things have given rise to more controversy than 
the question of the utility of the English soldier's stiff stock. In the days 
when the stock was at its worst, it was composed of extremely stiff leather, so 
hard and firm that it was impossible to bend the neck. It rubbed against 
and irritated the submaxillary glands, and was so uncomfortable, that it was 
months before recruits could wear it with ease. Recruits were sometimes 
made to sleep in it, in order to accustom them to it more quickly. Of late 
years the stock has been made lower, and more flexible ; but this modified 
stock is still worn in England, though it is now quite discarded in India, 
where a thin handkerchief takes its place. 

It certainly seems wonderful that an apparatus of this kind should have 
found defenders ; for it was not merely uncomfortable, and somewhat impeded 
the return of blood through the external jugulars, and hindered the action of 
some of the accessory muscles of respiration, but also (what would be more 
perceptible to soldiers) rendered impossible the bending and varying attitudes 
of the neck, which occur when a man makes a strong exertion. Eor great ex- 
ertion with the upper extremities cannot be made, if the clavicles and scapula 
are not rigidly fixed ; and they cannot be fixed unless the neck can easily 

* Jeffreys. Although the great weight of the reflecting head-dress proposed by Mr Jeffreys 
("The British Army in India," p. 59) seems to me conclusive against it, I ought to state that 
this is not the opinion of the inventor, who thinks the weight would be well borne if the solar 
heat were reflected. I can strongly recommend Mr Jeffreys' work, as full of ingenious and 
useful remarks. 



GARMENTS. 377 

bend. On every account, physiological and mechanical, the neck should be 
left as bare as possible. Nor is there any medical reason why it should not 
be. Like the face, the neck soon gets accustomed to exposure ; and besides, 
if we let Nature follow her own course, there is the beard to shelter important 
parts. Among many work-people exposed to vicissitudes of weather, among 
English sailors and the French Zouaves, the neck is left quite bare without 
injury. A stock may, indeed, turn a half-spent rifle ball ; but clothes are 
not to be considered a defence ; and even if they were, where are we to stop 
in our application of such a principle ? In time of war, also, the stock is at 
once thrown away. In the Crimea, the stock and the shako were at once 
discarded. 

If the neck is covered at all, it should be with a very thin and supple cloth. 
The collar of the coat should be made low and loose, so as to give full freedom 
to every movement of the neck, and not to compress the root of the neck in 
the slightest degree. 

In Algeria the French troops have long worn a thin cravat of cotton ; and 
a decree of March 1860 extended its use to all the corps of infantry. 

Coat, Tunic, Shell-Jacket, $c. The varieties of the coat are very numerous 
in the army ; and there are undress and stable suits of different kinds. The 
infantry now wear the tunic, which is a great improvement over the old cut- 
away coatee. It is still, however, too tight, and made too scanty over the hips 
and across the abdomen. A good tunic should be with a low collar, and 
loose round the neck, over the shoulders (so as to allow the deltoid and latis- 
simus the most unrestricted play),* and across the chest. It should come 
well across the abdomen, so as to guard it completely from cold and rain ; 
descending loosely over the hips, it should fall as low over the thighs as is 
consistent with kneeling in rifle practice, i.e., as low as it can fall without 
touching the ground. Looking not only to the comfort of the soldier, but to 
the work and force required of him, it is a great mistake to have the tunic 
otherwise than exceedingly loose. A loose tunic, a blouse in fact, is in reality 
a more soldier-like dress than the tight garment, which every one sees must 
press upon and hinder the rapid action of muscles. The tunic should be well 
provided with pockets, not only behind, but on the sides and in front ; the 
pockets being internal, and made of a very strong lining. In time of war, a 
soldier has many things to carry ; food, extra ammunition sometimes, all sorts 
of little comforts, which pack away easily in pockets. If the appearance is 
objected to, they need not be used in time of peace ; but with a loose dress, 
they would not be seen. 

The colour of the tunic is red in most regiments. It is a very striking 
colour, but it soils easily; and as it appears to be more easily seen at a distance 
than other colours, there can be little doubt that the inexorable necessities of 
war will soon cause the " red coats " of England to be merely historical. 

The shell-jacket and the stable-suit need not be described. 

In India the tunic is made loose, and of thin material. Mr Jeffreys has 
suggested that a bright metallic-like surface should, if possible, be given to 
the cloth, so as to reflect the heat. He has also proposed to have the tunic 
made with a series of flounces, pierced with ventilating holes, so as to offer a 
slow conducting material, but this seems unnecessary. 

Waistcoats. No waistcoats are worn in the British army, but they ought to 
be introduced. A long waistcoat with arms is one of the most useful of gar- 
ments ; it can be used without the tunic when the men are in barracks or on 

* This cannot occur if epaulets are worn ; and it is to be hoped nothing will ever occur to 
bring in again the use of these so-called ornaments. 



378 CLOTHING. 

common drill. Put on under the tunic, it is one of the best protections 
against cold. At present the men are obliged to wear tight coats, and haying- 
nothing under them, line them with flannel and wadding. In winter and summer 
they often wear the same dress, although the oppression in the summer is very 
great. If the tunic were made very loose of some light material, and if a 
good short Jersey or Guernsey frock were allowed to be worn at the option of 
the men, the men would have cool dresses in summer, warm in winter, and the 
thin tunic would be more comfortable in the Mediterranean and subtropical 
stations. 

Trousers. Formerly the army wore breeches and leggings; but shortly before 
or during the Peninsular War trousers were introduced. The increased com- 
fort to the soldier is said to have been remarkable ; the trouser, indeed, pro- 
tecting the leg quite down to the ankle, seems to be as good a dress as can be 
devised, if it is made on proper principles, viz., very loose over the hips and 
knees, and gathered in at the ankle, so that merely sufficient opening is left 
to pass the foot through. The much-laughed-at pegtop trousers seem to be, 
in fact, the proper shape. In this way the whole leg is protected, and the 
increased weight given by the part of the trousers below the knee is a matter 
of no consequence. 

In the French army the trousers are now made large at the ankle, so as 
to be turned up inside during marches; a fastening is placed inside the 
trousers below the knee, and the trousers then falling from this reach to 
mid-leg. 

The " knickerbockers" differ from this as they cannot be let down. It 
has been proposed to introduce them into the army, and they are actually in 
use in some volunteer -regiments. But though very easy, and adapted for 
gentlemen while shooting, they do not seem to me fitted for the soldier. 
Leggings constantly worn are necessary, or the leg is left bare. Now, the sol- 
dier requires a garment which may constantly cover him, and the rather 
heavy leggings are not adapted for this. It is also introducing two gar- 
ments where one would do, and therefore increasing the complexity of the 
dress, and lessening the rapidity of dressing. Besides, what is gained by this, 
if the trousers are made equally loose about the hips and knees and calves ? It 
is here that the impediment to free movement exists. The trousers at present 
are made so tight over the hips that to overcome their resistance some force 
is lost every time the muscles act. 

In the English army leather leggings are now worn over the trousers ; they 
keep the trousers dry. But would it not be better to adopt the plan used in 
some cavalry regiments, of letting the lower part of the trousers be made of 
thin leather ? It would do away with one garment, would be sufficient pro- 
tection, and would be easily cleaned, and in going through jungle would not 
be liable to be torn. 

The trousers are supported either by braces or a belt. If the latter be used, 
it should be part of the trousers, should fit just over the hip, and not go 
round the waist. It must be tight, and has one disadvantage, which is, 
that in great exertion the perspiration flowing down from above collects 
there, as the tight belt hinders its descent. Also, if heavy articles are car- 
ried in the pocket the weight may be too great for the belt. Braces seem, 
on the whole, the best. 

Trousers should be made with large pockets, on the principle of giving the 
men as much convenience as possible of carrying articles in time of war. 

In India, trousers are made in the same fashion as at home, but of drill 
or khakee cloth, or thin serge an excellent material especially for the nor- 
thern stations. 



GARMENTS. 379 

Leggings and Gaiters. Formerly long leggings reaching over the knees, and 
made of untanned leather, were used. They appear not to have been con- 
sidered comfortable, and were discarded about fifty years ago. Short gaiters 
were subsequently used for some time, but were finally given up, and for 
several years nothing of the kind was worn. After the Crimean War, 
Lord Herbert introduced for the infantry short leather leggings, 6 inches 
in height, and buttoning on the outside. These leggings give after a time, 
and ruck up. They want also a flap over the instep to throw off the wet. 

In some of the French regiments a gaiter of half-dressed hide comes up 
to just below the knee ; short calico or linen gaiters are worn by other corps ; 
a flap comes forward over the instep. 

The calico gaiters have been much praised, but they soon get saturated with 
perspiration, thickened in ridges, and sometimes irritate the skin. On the 
other hand, leather gaiters, if not made of good leather, lose their suppleness, 
and press on the ankles and instep. 

A great advantage of gaiters and leggings is that at the end of a march they 
can be at once removed and cleaned ; but, on the whole, if suitable leather 
could be fixed to the bottom of trousers, it seems to me they might be 
abandoned. 

Shoes and Boots. In the action of walking the foot expands in length 
and breadth; in length often as much as y^th, in breadth even more. In 
choosing shoes this must be attended to. The shoemaker measures when 
the person is sitting, and as a rule allows only ^\th increase for walking. 
Ankle boots, weighing 40 to 42 ounces, are now worn by the infantry ; the 
cavalry have Wellingtons and jackboots. The jackboots of the Life Guards 
weigh (with spurs) 100 ounces avoir. Shoes cannot be worn without gaiters. 
Ankle boots are preferable ; in the English army they are now made to lace, 
and are fitted with a good tongue. Great attention is now paid at Pimlico 
to the shape and make of the boot,* and the principles laid down by 
Camper, Meyer, and others, are carefully attended to. There are eight sizes 
of length and four of breadth, making thirty-two sizes in all. The boots are 
made right and left. The heel is made very low and broad, so that the weight 
is not thrown on the toes, the gastrocnemii and solei can act, which they 
cannot do well with a high heel, and there is a good base for the column 
which forms the line from the centre of gravity, and the centre of gravity is 
kept low ; the inner line of the boot is made straight, so as not to push out- 
wards the great toe in the least degree, and there is a bulging over the root of 
the great toe to allow easy play for that large joint. Across the tread and toes 
the foot is made very broad, so that the lateral expansion may not be im- 
peded ; the toes are broad. The greatest care is taken in the inspection of 
the boots, the order of inspection being 1st, The proof of the size, which is 
done by standard measure ; 2d, The excellence of the leather, which is 
judged of by inspection of each boot, and by selecting a certain number from 
each lot furnished by a contractor, and cutting them up ; if anything wrong 
is found, the whole lot is rejected ; 3d, The goodness of the sewing ; there 
must be a certain number of stitches per inch (not less than eight for the 
upper leathers), a certain thickness of thread, and the thread must be well 
waxed. The giving up of boots is generally owing to the shoemaker using a 

* The importance of a good boot is known to every soldier. Marshal Saxe says in his 
" Memoirs" that there is no article of the soldier's dress more important, and that battles are 
won by legs. Sir John Burgoyne, in his interesting paper on -Dress (" Professional Papers of 
the Royal Engineers," 1863, p. 121), tells an anecdote of the Duke of Wellington. On being 
asked what was the best requisite for a soldier, the Duke replied, " A good pair of shoes !" 
What next ? "A spare pair of good shoes !" What next ? "A spare pair of soles !'.' 



380 CLOTHING. 

large awl, and thin unwaxed thread, with as few stitches as possible ; the 
work is thus easier to him, but the thread soon rots. 

Sometimes boots are not sewn, but pegged, but there seems to be some 
difficulty in repairing them on service, and after some trial they have been 
given up in the English service. 

Some other plans have been proposed. Mr Dowie* has introduced an 
elastic, instead of the rigid, "waist." This bends easily with the foot, and 
thus all the muscular effort necessary for overcoming the resistance of the 
rigid waist is gained for progression. A similar object is sought for in the 
"Hythe boot" of Colonel Carter, who has introduced a slit across the tread, 
which permits enough movement to give increased facility in walking, and 
especially in going up hills, and to render some of the attitudes in rifle prac- 
tice more easy. Some shoemakers now put two or three slits in the sole, 
filling them up with vulcanised india-rubber. Others have used a thin elastic 
steel band in the "waist." 

Mr Dowie's boots have been under investigation by the War Office autho- 
rities, but have not been introduced. The question is, whether their increased 
expense is compensated for by increased ease and efficiency, and whether 
they are fitted for all the work a soldier may have to do for example, dig- 
ging in trench work. They appear to be easily mended, so that is no objec- 
tion. It would seem desirable, by an exact and practical inquiry, to see 
whether marching is facilitated, and to what extent. If only two miles a-day 
could be gained, then, cceteris paribus, these boots might be introduced with 
advantage. Formerly soldiers were permitted to buy Mr Dowie's boots if 
they pleased. A certain number did so, but apparently did not renew them 
when worn out. The soldier, of course, always prefers the cheapest article when 
he has to pay for it. At present he receives, however, a free kit, and therefore 
the objection he might formerly entertain against these boots no longer exists. 
Colonel Carter's boots are also well worthy of a trial. 

Considering the great injury inflicted on the foot by tight and ill-made 
boots, by which the toes are often distorted and made to override, and the 
great toe is even dislocated and anchylosed, it is plain that the increased 
attention lately excited on this point is not unnecessary. The compression of 
children's feet by the tight leather shoes now made is often extremely cruel 
and injurious. 

It may, indeed, be asserted that the child's foot would be better if left 
altogether unclothed, and certainly we see no feet so well modelled as the 
children of the poor, who run about shoeless. In the case of the soldier, too, 
who has in many campaigns been left shoeless, and has greatly suffered there- 
from, t it is a question whether he should not be trained to go barefooted.^: 
The feet soon get hard and callous to blows, and cleanliness is really pro- 
moted by having the feet uncovered, and by the frequent washings the prac- 
tice renders necessary. After being unworn for some time, shoes that 

* Mr Dowie is a boot and shoe maker in the Strand. He has the credit of writing a very 
sensible work on the "Foot and its Covering" some years ago, in which he incorporated 
Camper's well-known and philosophical treatise on the Foot. To Mr Dowie must certainly be 
given the credit of having again directed attention to this point. Other works have lately been 
published, "Why the Shoe Pinches," a translation of Dr Meyer's work by Dr Craig, and an 
excellent work on the " Foot and Hand" by Mr Humphry of Cambridge. 

t We all know how frequently this subject is referred to in the Duke of Wellington's de- 
spatches. In the Indian mutiny several regiments were shoeless, and the 84th Regiment, in its 
rapid pursuit after Koer Singh, suffered greatly from this cause. 

Mr Dowie states that at the battle of Maida the Highlanders, when ordered to charge, 
stopped to pull off their boots, and then, freed from these incumbrances, made that famous 
onset which rendered the first meeting in that war of the French and British soldiers so 
celebrated. 



GARMENTS. 381 

previously fitted will be found too small, on account of the greater expansion 
and growth of the foot, and this is itself a strong argument against the shoe 
as commonly worn. 

The sandal in all hot countries is much better than the shoe, and there is 
no reason why it should not be used in India for the English soldiers as it is 
by the native ; the foot is cooler, and will be more frequently washed. For 
all native troops, negroes, &c., the sandal should be used, and the boot alto- 
gether avoided. In campaigns it is most important to have large stores of 
boots at various points, so that fresh boots may be frequently issued and worn 
ones sent back for repair. Soldiers ought to be trained to repair their own 
boots.* 

Greatcoat and Cloak. In the cavalry, cloaks, with capes which can be 
detached, are carried. They are large, so as to cover a good deal of the horse, 
and are made of good cloth ; the weight is about 5 5> to 6 Ib for the cloak, and 
2J K) to 3 Tb for the cape. The infantry wear greatcoats weighing from 4 R> 
to 5 ft. They are now made of extremely good cloth, are double-breasted, and 
are as long as can be managed. They are not provided with pockets at the 
back, which is a serious omission, and they also should have loops, so that the 
flaps may be turned back if desired. The regulation coat is also unprovided 
with a hood, but this ought to be altered ; a waterproof hood for a soldier's 
comfort is indispensable. Most armies use them, and in countries with very 
cold winds it is cruelty to omit them. 

The greatcoat is perhaps the most important article of dress for the soldier. 
With a good greatcoat, Robert Jackson thought it might be possible to do 
away with the blanket in war, and if india-rubber sheets were used this is 
perhaps possible. In the Italian war of 1859, the French troops left their 
tunics at home, and campaigned in their greatcoats, which were worn open on 
the march, t 

In countries liable to great vicissitudes of temperature, and to sudden cold 
winds, as the hilly parts of Greece, Turkey, Affghanistan, &c., a loose, warm 
cloak, which can be worn open or folded, is used by the inhabitants, and 
should be imitated in campaigns. It is worthy of remark, that in most of 
these countries, though the sun may be extremely hot, the clothes are very 
warm. 

In very cold countries, sheepskin and buffalo-hide coats, especially the 
former, are very useful. No wind can blow through them ; in the coldest 
night of their rigorous winter the Anatolian shepherds lie out in their sheep- 
skin coat and hood without injury, though unprotected men are frozen to 
death. In Bulgaria, the Crimea, and other countries exposed to the pitiless 
winds from Siberia, and the steppes of Tartary, nothing can be better than 
coats like these. 

* It may be worth while to give a receipt for making boots impermeable to wet. I have tried 
the following, and found it effectual : Take half a pound of shoemaker's dubbing, half a pint 
of linseed oil, half a pint of solution of india-rubber (price 2s. per gallon). Dissolve with gentle 
heat (it is very inflammable), and rub on the boots. This will last for five or six months ; but 
it is well to renew it every three months. At a small expense the boots of a whole regiment 
could be thus made impermeable to wet. 

f Cloth may be made waterproof by the following simple plan : Make a weak solution of 
glue, and while it is hot add alum in the proportion of one ounce to two quarts ; as soon as the 
alum is dissolved, and while the solution is hot, brush it well over the surface of the cloth and 
then dry. It is said that the addition of two drachms of sulphate of copper is an improve- 
ment. Extreme heat destroys the waterproof quality, so it is possible that this may not do 
for India. Sometimes native products in India will make cloth waterproof. This is the case 
with the wood oil, or Thietsie of Burmah. When I was serving in Burmah I made many ex- 
periments with this curious substance, and found that common American drill could be made 
quite waterproof with it. 



CHAPTER XIV. 

WEIGHTS OF THE ARTICLES OF DRESS AND OF THE 
ACCOUTREMENTS, AND ON THE MODES OF CARRY- 
ING THE WEIGHTS. 

SECTION I. 
WEIGHTS. 

THE following tables give the weights of all the articles used by the Heavy 
Cavalry (except the Guards), the Lancers, and the Hussars * and the weights 
of the articles used by the Infantry of the Line. The weights carried by the 
Artillery are much the same as those of the Cavalry. The weights of the 
helmets and jackboots of the Life and Horse Guards have been already men- 
tioned. The cuirass weighs 10 5> 12 oz. ; it rests a little on the sacrum and 
hip, and in that way is more easily borne by the man. With these excep- 
tions, the weights may be considered nearly the same as those of the heavy 
dragoons. 

CAVALRY. 

The weight of the accoutrements and equipment is in great part carried by 
the horse. The cloak, when not worn, is carried in a roll over the shoulder, 
or sometimes round the neck, or in front on the horse. 

Weights of Dress, Equipments, Arms, and Horse Appointments of the Private 
Soldier in the 5th Dragoon Guards (1863). 



Dress on the Person. 



ft> oz. 

Helmet, . . .27 
Tunic, . . .32 

Leather overalls, . .36 
Boots and spurs, . .311 
Gauntlets, . . .10 



ft oz. 



Shirt, . . . . 10 

Socks, . . . .04 

Cloak, . . ..70 

Cape, . . . .26 



Total, . . 23 14 

Saddlery. 

Ib oz. 
Saddle-tree, seat, and flaps, . . . . .112 

One pair pannels, 4 4J 

Girth, girth-stay, and pair of lacing thongs, . . 1 9f 

* For these weights I have to thank Dr Fyffe, 5th Dragoon Guards ; Dr Innes, 16th Lancers 
and Dr Fraser, 10th Hussars. 



WEIGHTS OF DftESS AND ACCOUTREMENTS. 



383 



Saddlery continued. 



Ib oz. 




Stirrup irons and leathers, 1 1 




Crupper, ..... . 11^ 




Breast-plate and neck-strap, . . . . \ 1 3j 




Surcingle, . 15 




The set of baggage-straps to fasten valise, . 8^ 




One pair of wallets and straps, packed, . . .70^ 




One cloak-strap, ... .02^ 




One pair of horse-shoes and cases, packed, . 513^ 




One pair horse-shoe straps, . . ..04^ 




Carbine, bucket, and strap, . . 12;] 




Carbine stay-strap, . ... 3^ 




Total, . . 37 12} 


Ib oz. 




Bridle, ... . 2 10 J 




Bridoon and reins, 13 




Head-collar, . . . 1 4| 




Collar-chain, . . . 1 11 J 




Horse-log, . . . . . .15^ 
8 3 




Tntil 


45 15J 




Horse Appointments. 




ft) OZ. 




Shabraque, . . . . . . . .49^ 




Sheepskin, . . . . . . . . 5 13- 


; 


Numnah,* . 2 15j 


; 


Valise, packed with kit, 14 10. 


- 


Corn-sack, 1 12; 




Corn-bag, . . . . . . . . 12 J 


TVktal 


- 30 9| 


_L o iai, ...... 


Arms and Accoutrements. 




Ib oz. 




Mess-tin and strap, 10. 


f 


Cloak and cape, . 10 0. 


r 


Carbine, . . . . . . . .68^ 


1 


Sword-blade, 2 8J 


Sword scabbard, 21 




Waist-belt, with long and short carriage, . . .013; 




Sword-billets (i.e., straps fastening sword to scabbard), 3; 




Sword-knob, . li 




Pouch-box 10 rounds and caps, . . . .115; 




Pouch-belt, swivel, and cap-pocket, . . . . 1 10- 




Havresac, 8^ 




Water-bottle and strap, . . . . . . 1 .111 




rp j I 


- 29 31 


1 (.) I ! I J 5 * 


Weight of all equipments, 129 K) lOf oz. ; total weight of dra- 


goon (153 K>)t and all equipments, 282 Ib lOf oz. 





* A thick felt pad placed under the saddle. 

t The weight is assumed to equal that of the men of the 10th Hussars. 



384 



WEIGHTS OF DRESS AND ACCOUTREMENTS. 



Weight of Men's Clothes, Necessaries, $c., 10th Royal Hussars (1863). 



No. Articles. 


ft OZ. 


No. Articles. 


ft OZ. 


1 Tunic, 


2 114 


Brought forward, 


32 13i 


1 Busby, plume, and lines, 1 13| 
1 Pair leather overalls and \ ^ R 


2 Pairs drawers, each 13| oz. 1 11^ 
2 gloves, each 7j oz. 14| 


straps, 


) 


3 worsted socks, each 


) 

\ O 1 *}! 


1 Pair cloth do. do., 


2 74- 


4^ oz. 


/ U Xt>7) 

) 


1 Stable-jacket, 


1 154 


Or 3 cotton socks, each 


U 7 


1 Forage-cap, 


5~ 


2 oz. 


r ' 


1 Valise, 


2 7 


1 Brass paste, 


3| 


I Cloak, 5 ft) 8 oz. ; cape, 


^ 


1 Hold-all, . 


4 


2 Ib 6 oz., 


) 


1 Horse-rubber, 


11 


1 Pair boots, 


3 OJ 


1 Knife, fork and spoon, 


44 


1 spurs, . 


5 


1 Pipe-clay and sponge, 


2" 


1 highlows, 


3 8 


1 Razor, 


2 


1 Stable-bag, 


6 


3 Shirts, each 14| oz., . 


2 11^ 


1 Pair braces, 


3| 


1 Button brass, " . 


If 


1 Button-brush, 


H 


1 Stock, 


14 


1 Cloth 


34 


2 Towels, 7| oz. each, . 


15^ 


1 Hair . . 


2f 


1 Stable trousers, 


1 5 


1 Brass 


2| 


1 Turnscrew, 





Lace 


1 


2 Flannel jackets, each 11 


oz. 1 6 


Shaving 


1J 


1 Oil-tin, 


24 


Shoe (old), 


94 


1 Pair foot-straps, 


04 


Tin blacking, 


44 


1 Mess-tin and strap, . 


1 1} 


Hair-comb, 


04 


1 Account-book, . 


o H 


Carry forward, 


32 13^ 




46 7 


Weight 


of Saddlery, 10th Royal Hussars. 




Articles. 


ft oz. Articles. 


ft OZ. 


Saddle-tree, 


6 51 


Brought forward, 


50 4| 


seat, 


1 O]7 


Numnah, 


2 llj 


Pair flaps, 


2 8 


Corn-sack, 


1 114 


pannels, . 


4 6^ 


Nose-bag, 


i U 


Girth-tub, 


6^ 


Horse-brush, . 


11 


Girth-leather, 


1 li 


Currycomb, 


11 


Stirrup-irons, 


1 114 


Sponge, 


2 


leathers, 


1 34 


Hoof-picker, . 


If 


Crupper, 


144 


Scissors, 


34 


Breastplate, 


i 4 


Horse-log, 


1 3| 


Surcingle, 


15 


Havresac, 


9 


Set of baggage-straps, 


9j 


Carbine, 


7 


cloak straps, 


9 


Pouch-belt, 16 oz. . 


} 


Pair wallets, 


1 144 


Pouch, 17 oz. 




Pair shoe-cases and straps, 


1 4" 


Cap-pocket, 3 oz. . 


} 3 34 


4 Horse-shoes and nails, 


4 9 


Ammunition, cap-tin, and 




New carbine bucket, 
Bridle-bit and head-stall, . 


2 13^ 

2 2 


worm, 15j oz. 
Waist-belt, &c., 1 ib 1 oz. 


/ 


Bridoon-bit and reins, 


1 2 


Sabretash and slings, 1 R> 


> 7 O 1 


Curb-chain, . ... 


3| 


5| oz., 


\ 5 


Bit reins, .... 


104 


Sword, 4 Ib 10 oz. . 


) 


Head-collar, 


1 111 








Collar-chain, 


1 12| 




76 10 


Sheepskin, 
Shabraciue 


4 4 
4 65 


Weight of equipments, 


124 1 






Total weight of Hussar* 


( 977 o 


Carry forward, 


50 4 


with all his equipments, 


> il 1 O 



* Average weight of men of 10th Hussars (1863) = 153 ft 2 oz. ; average height, 5 feet 7 in. 



EQUIPMENTS. 



385 



Weight of IQth Lancer's Equipment (1863). 



Description. 


Ib o/. tt> oz. 


Description. tt> oz. 


tt> 


CLOTHING. 




Brought forward, 11 lOf 27 8^ 


Lancer cap, lines, &c. 
(complete), . 
Unbooted overalls, 


2 . 2* 
2 12 


Piece of soap, . . 2J 
Woollen socks, . . 14 
Pipeclay and sponge, 0^ 




Booted do., 


3 12| 


Button brass (cleaner), 1^ 




Tunic, 


2 Hi 


Stock, . . .0 l\ 




Boots, 


3 8 


Mess-tin and strap, .0 14^ 




Ancle boots, 


2 10 


Towels, ... 1 




Spurs, 
Gloves, 


61 
2| 


Linen stable-trousers, 14| 
Valise and straps, . 2 15 


Cloak, 


7 7 


Flannel waistcoats, . 1 12 




Cape, 


2 

97 Qi 


Plume case, . .0 li 


20 !>j 






NECESSARIES- 


ARMS. 




Stable baff. 


51 


Sword and scabbard, . 4 7; 




hJVOSA Mi^, 

Blacking and tin, 


4 

9 


Lance and flag, . .40; 




Oil bottles and oil, 


3| 


Pistol, . . .32. 




Pair braces, 


4 

4 


Pouch and belt (complete) 1 12, 




Box of brass paste, 
Brush, brass, 


3 

2 


Sword-belts, ' . . 1 2 ; 
Cleaning-rod, pistol, . 2 




clothes, . 


3 





14 lOf 


hair, 


3 


SADDLERY. 




lace, 


1 


Saddle and bridle, . 32 9 




shaving, . 


1 


Collar-chain, . .23 




shoe polishing, , 


4j- 


Horse-log, . .12, 


t 


blacking, . 


2 


Horse-bag, . .1 2 


i 


Forage-cap and strap, 


4f 


Sponge, . . .02 




Hair-comb, 





Scissors, . . .03 


fc 


Pair cotton drawers, . 


15 J 


Horse-brush, . . 11 


2 


Girdle, . 


5 


Curry-comb, . . 11 


i 


Pair gauntlets, . 


10 


Shabraque, . . 3 13 




Under jacket, . 


2 4 


Sheepskin, . .50 




Knife and fork, 


3 


Numnah, . . 2 13^ 


Spoon, 
Hold-all, . 


2 

2| 


Corn sack, . . 1 13 
Hoof pick and turnscre w If 


Eazor and case, 


2j' 


i 


52 6i 


Horse-rubber, . 


10J [ 


10 Rounds ball ammunition, 


o ioj 


Cotton shirts, . 


3 l r 








Carry forward, 




Total weight of equipment, 
Including man (153 R>), 


115 13i 

268 13 


11 10| 27 8 



INFANTRY. 

The articles of dress and equipment may be divided into those the man 
carries and those carried for him. In marches the soldier now only carries 
what is called the field or Lord Hardinge's kit ; other articles which formed 
part of the full kit are placed in a squad bag (of which there are four to each 
company), and are carried for him. The articles of the field kit are 1 or 2 
cotton shirts (10 ounces each =20 ounces), a pair of serge or cloth trousers 
(23 to 32 ounces), a pair of socks (4 ounces), towel (8 ounces), boots (42 
ounces), forage cap (4 to 5 ounces), hold-all with knife, fork, and spoon (2| 
ounces), 2 brushes (6 ounces), tin of blacking (6| ounces). 

2 B 



386 WEIGHTS OF DRESS AND ACCOUTREMENTS. 



Weights carried by the Infantry Soldier at Home. 

lb oz. lb oz. 

The clothes he stands in (including shako), from 9 12 to 1011 

Field kit in pack, . . . . 7 9 8 

Greatcoat, . . . . . 4 2 5 

Eegulation pack and straps, . . . ,,40,, 40 

Cross-belt, waist-belt, pouch, frog, ball-bag, 3 14 ,, 4 

Havresac, 8 8 



29 13 32 3 

Canteen,* ,, 1 5 1 5 

Eifle and sling, 9 4 9 7f 

Bayonet and scabbard, . . . 14f ,, 10 

Ammunition, 60 rounds and 75 caps,t . ,,58,, 5 8J 



16 15f 17 5 
In the field : 

Water-bottle and water, . . . 2 2 

Blanket, 3 5 

Three days' provisions, . . . . ,,60,, 60 



11 13 



Total weight carried by the Infantry Soldier. 

Lowest. Highest, 

lb oz. lb oz. 

Clothes, necessaries, and accoutrements, from 29 13 to 32 3 

Armament, 16 15f 17 5 

Field necessaries, . . . . 11 13 

Grand Total, 57 12f 62 8 

The mean#of the two is a trifle over 60 lb, and this may be considered the 
average weight carried by the foot soldier of the line. 



Weight of a Rifleman: 's Kit, Clothing, and Appointments, with 
20 rounds of Ammunition (1860). 



Kifle with sling, . 
Sword and scabbard, 
Kit complete, 
Greatcoat, 




Carry forward, . 33 9J 



* A new canteen lately issued weighs 1 lb 7 oz. ; it is much stronger and better than the old 
one. 

t It appears that the weight of powder in each cartridge varies from 67 '9 to 72 '6 grains ; the 
paper also varies in thickness, so that the weight of the ammunition is not always the same. 



EQUIPMENTS. 



387 



Weight of a Rifleman's Kit, ^c. continued. 



Brought forward, 

Accoutrements, . . . 

Eegimental clothing complete,* 

Without ammunition, .... 
20 rounds of ball cartridge, . 

Total, . . 




48 lOf 



It may be interesting to give the weights carried by the French infantry 
soldier in 1857. The clothing of the French army is, however, being altered, 
and varies in different regiments, so that the following table is perhaps not 
now perfectly correct : 



Equipment of the French Infantry Soldier (in 1857).t 



Name. 


Weight. 
French mea- 
sure. 


Weight. 
English mea- 
sure. 


Total in tt> 
avoir, and 
lOths of a Ib. 






Ib. avoir, and 






Kilogrammes. 


lOths of a Ib. 






' 1 Greatcoat, . 


2-150 


4-73 








1 Tunic, 


1-400 


3-08 






d 
<& 


1 Waistcoat, . 


850 


1-87 








1 Pair trousers (sometimes 2), 
1 Cap, .... 


720 
220 


1-58 
484 




15-448 





1 Shako, 


665 


1-46 








Epaulettes, 


120 


264 








L 1 Bag, .... 


900 


1-98 






g { Pouch, 


870 


1-914 






| 1 Pouch-belt, . 
j 1 Gun strap, . 


370 
80 


814 
176 




3-718 


& [ Sabre belt, . 


370 


814 








1 Gun and bayonet (the } 












new fusil weighs 4*5 > 


4-580 


10-08 








kiL), . '. . j 










g 


Sword, 


1-331 


2-93 






r 


Case for arms, 
Ball screw, 


100 
025 


22 
055 




19-017 


3 


" Monte-ressort," 


110 


232 






^H 


Bayonet sheath, . 


050 


11 








Hache de campement, . 


1- 


2-2 








2 Packets of 15 cartridges each, 


1-450 


3-19 







* Cap, tunic, trousers, boots, and leather leggings, 
t Rossignol, " Hygiene Pub. ;" and Boudin, p. 266. 



388 



WEIGHTS OF DRESS AND ACCOUTREMENTS. 



Equipment of the French Infantry Soldier (in 1857) continued. 



Name. 


Weight. 
French mea- 
sure. 


Weight. 
English mea- 
sure. 


Total in ft 
avoir, and 
lOths of a lb. 




Kilogrammes. 


lb avoir, and 
lOthsof alb. 






3 Shirts, 550 grammes each, 


1-650 


3-6300 






2 Collars, 30 grammes, . 


060 


1320 






1 Pair leather gaiters, 


380 


8360 






1 Pair cloth do., 


220 


4840 


' 




2 Pairs shoes, 690 grammes, 


1-380 


3-0360 






1 Pair drawers, 


440 


9680 






2 Pairs gloves, 25 grammes, 


050 


1100 






2 Caps, 45 do., 


090 


1980 




| 


1 Pouch cover, 


070 


1540 






1 Memorandum book, 


030 


0660 




1 


1 Tunic case, 


120 


2640 




w 


Shako cover, 


100 


2200 




i 
fe 


1 Pompon, 


050 


1100 


14-53 


^H 


Case for razors, &c., 


070 


1540 






1 Musette, 


140 


3080 






1 Fusil stop, . 


020 


0440 






1 Epinglette, . 


008 


0176 






1 Pair braces, 


090 


1980 






1 Pair buckles, 


012 


0264 






1 Havresac, . 


1-133 


2-4926 






1 Large strap, 


120 


2640 






L 2 Small round planchettes ) 
for tunic case, . . J 


100 


2200 




1 Zinc "bowl, 


275 


6050 






Total, 


52-713 



To this weight must be added : 

Pack, .... 

Blanket, .... 
Share of tente d'abris about, 
Water-bottle and water, 
Rations for three days,* 



Grand total, 



lb 

4-73 
3-5 
3 

2 
6 



7 1-9 6 a avoir, (say 72 lb). 



19-25 



Since this time the shako has been made lighter ; the dress has also been a 
little altered, and some of the equipment is not taken in the time of war. 
The weight is probably, therefore, diminished at present in time of war to 
about 60 to 65 Jb avoir. 



* The French soldier, however, often carries as much as 13 lb weight of rations. Rossignol, 
Hygiene Militaire, p. 267. 



CARRIAGE OF THE WEIGHTS. 389 



SECTION II. 
CAREIAGE OF THE WEIGHTS BOENE BY THE SOLDIER 

The weights of the articles borne by the cavalry soldier are of less conse- 
quence than in the case of the infantry, since the horse really carries them. 
At the same time, the efficiency of the horse is greatly lessened by over- 
weighting him, and no one can look through the tables just given without 
wishing that military officers would again turn their attention to this subject, 
and see whether the great weight which even the light-cavalry man and horse 
carries could not be lessened without injury to efficiency. 

In the infantry it is of the greatest moment to lessen the weight carried to 
the utmost, especially in these days of rapid and sudden movements. A cer- 
tain load must be carried by the soldier, as for example 

1. Eifle and bayonet. 

2. Ammunition (= 1'47 ounces avoir, for each round). 

3. Pack and field kit. 

4. Greatcoat and blanket. 

5. Canteen, water-bottle, havresac, and provisions. 

If, in addition, the plan of giving him a portion of a shelter-tent is adopted, 
he will have this ( = 2 J Ib to 3 fi>) in addition. Besides, he may have also 
to carry entrenching tools, and probably the conditions of modern warfare will 
make this always necessary. No great marches have ever been made by men 
so loaded ; in the most rapid marches the men have merely carried their arms, 
ammunition, provisions, and a blanket. It has therefore been proposed to 
let the men have no kit on active field-service, but however expedient it may 
be to put aside the kit and pack during very rapid and forced marches, a 
soldier could not manage during a whole campaign without his kit.* The 
great point must be, not to deprive him of his comfort, but to make his weights 
as easy to him as they can be, and not to oblige him to carry a single ounce 
more than is absolutely necessary. " Force unnecessarily expended is force 
lost" (Eanald Martin). 

Weights are most easily borne when the following points are attended to : 

1. They must lie as near the centre of gravity as possible. In the upright 
position the centre of gravity is between the pelvis and the centre of the body, 
usually midway between the umbilicus and pubis, but varying of course with the 
position of the body ; a line prolonged to the ground passes through the astra- 
galus just in front of the os calcis. Hence weights carried on the head or 
top of the shoulder, or which can be thrown towards the centre of the hip 
bones, are carried most easily, being directly over the line of centre of gravity. 
When a weight is carried away from this line the centre of gravity is dis- 
placed, and, in proportion to the added weight, occupies a point more or less 
distant from the usual site, until, perhaps, it is so far removed from this that 
a line prolonged downwards falls beyond the feet ; the man then falls, unless, 
by bending his body and bringing the added weight nearer the centre, he 
keep the line well within the space which his feet cover. 

In the distribution of weights, then, the first rule is to keep the weight near 
to the centre ; hence the common mode of carrying the soldier's greatcoat, 
viz., on the back of the knapsack, is a mistake, as it puts on weight at the 
greatest possible distance from the centre of gravity. 

* " There are five things," says Napoleon, "the soldier should never be without his firelock, 
his ammunition, his knapsack, his provisions for at least four days, and his entrenching tools. 
His knapsack may be reduced to the smallest possible size, but the soldier should always have 
it with him." Ranald Martin's Influence of Tropical Climates, p. 213. 



390 WEIGHTS OF DRESS AND ACCOUTREMENTS. 

2. The weights must in no case compress the lungs, or in any way interfere 
with the respiratory movements, or the elimination of carbonic acid (see 
EXERCISE, page 338), or hinder the transmission of blood through the lungs, 
or render difficult the action of the heart. 

3. No important muscles, vessels, or nerves should be pressed upon. This 
is self-evident ; an example may be taken from the present pack, the arm- 
straps of which so press on the axillary nerves and veins as to cause numbness, 
and often swelling of the hands, which I have known last for twenty-five hours. 

4. The weights should be distributed as much as possible over several parts 
of the body. 

If we consider the means made use of by those who carry great weights, we 
find the following points selected for bearing the weights : 
1. The top of the head. The cause of this is obvious ; the weight is com- 
pletely in the line of centre of gravity, and in movement is kept balanced 
over it. Of course, however, very great weights cannot be carried in this way. 

2. The tops of the scapulas, just over the supra-spinous fossa and ridge. At 
this point the weight is well over the centre of gravity, and it is also diffused 
over a large surface of the ribs by the pressure on the scapula. 

3. The hip bones and sacrum. Here, also, the weight is near the centre of 
gravity, and is borne by the strong bony arch of the hips, the strongest part 
of the body.* 

In addition, great use is always made by those who carry great weights of 
the system of balance. The packman of England used to carry from 40 Ib 
to even 60 Ib easily thirty miles a-day by taking the top of the scapula for the 
fixed point, and having half the weight in front of the chest and half behind. 
In this way he still brought the weight over the centre of gravity. The same 
point, and an analogous system of balance, is used by the milkmaid, who 
can carry more weight for a greater distance than the strongest guardsman 
equipped with the military accoutrements and pack. 

These points must guide us in arranging the weights carried by the soldier. 
The weight on the head is, of course, out of the question. We have, then, the 
scapulae, the hip, and the principle of balance, to take into consideration, t 

SUB-SECTION I. THE EIFLE AND BAYONET. 

The rifle is, of course, carried in the hand, or on the shoulder by the sling. 
Colonel Carter has affixed a button to one of his belts, by means of which the 
rifle can be slung to the shoulder-strap, and the arms be quite relieved. This 
is a very good contrivance. 

* The girls engaged in some of the works in Cornwall carry immense bags or hampers of sand 
up steep hills by resting the lower part of the sack on the hip and sacrum, and the upper part 
on the scapula. It is the same position as that taken by the Turkish porters, who will carry 
600 and 800 tt> some distance ; they also sometimes have a band round the forehead fastened 
to the top of the weight. 

t The Royal Sanitary Commission of 1857 did not neglect this subject, but examined wit- 
nesses and made suggestions. Among others, they advised a full trial of Berrington's knap- 
sack, which had been invented many years before. Nothing, however, was done, but several 
gentlemen Colonel O'Halloran and Lieutenant-Colonel Carter, in particular turned their atten- 
tion to this point, and trials were made of their respective packs. In 1861 and 1862 the Professors 
of the Army Medical School, and Major Deshon of the 2d Depot Battalion, an officer who has 
paid great attention to the health and comfort of the soldier, drew up some reports on the 
accoutrements of the soldier for Major-General Eyre, who is much interested in this important 
question. Major-General Eyre ordered many trials to be made at Chatham with different kinds 
of knapsacks and accoutrements, and brought the matter again before the Government. In 
1864, Professor Maclean of the Army Medical School delivered a lecture on "The Influence of 
the Present Knapsack and Accoutrements on the Health of the Infantry Soldier," at the Royal 
United Service Institution, which has been published in the Journal of the Institution (vol. viii. ) 
I have made use of all these documents. 



CARRIAGE OF THE WEIGHTS. 391 

The bayonet is carried by all nations either by a waist or hip -belt. For- 
merly in the British army it was carried by a cross-belt running over the 
right shoulder, and crossing the chest to the left hip. This was most oppres- 
sive, as there was another cross-belt over the other shoulder at the same time, 
and the two crossed on the sternum, and prevented entirely the advancing move- 
ment of the ribs. 

SUB-SECTION II. THE AMMUNITION. 

At present the English soldier carries sixty rounds in a pouch on the right 
side, suspended by a belt over the left shoulder, and crossing the front of the 
chest. The belt crossing the chest, and rendered tense by the 9 Ib weight at 
the end, impedes both the antero-posterior and lateral movements, and is 
most oppressive. The pouch hangs loose, and knocks against the hip in 
running. The whole contrivance is wrong in principle and clumsy, as the 
man has to put his hand behind for his ammunition, and drops much of it. 
Some new accoutrements were at one time issued for the Kifles,* which are 
infinitely better. There are three pouches two in front, at each side, and 
one behind, in the centre. A strap runs up from the one in the centre of the 
back to the top of the space between the shoulders ; then divides, and, pass- 
ing over each shoulder, runs down to the two pouches in front. Thus there 
is no cross-belt or compression of the chest ; the pouches all balance each 
other, and two-thirds of the ammunition are in front, so that there is great 
facility in loading. It is probable that nothing will be found better than 
this. A "War Office Committee, of which General Eyre is president, have 
adopted this plan, with a slight modification : the pouches are placed on a hip- 
belt ; the two in front carry fifteen rounds each ; the one at the back thirty ; 
they thus exactly balance each other. 

The French carry the pouch on the waist-belt, but it holds only forty of our 
rounds. The Prussians carry two pouches in front, containing fifteen rounds 
each, attached to and balancing the pack. When the pack is not worn, they 
are carried solely by the waist-belt. The American Federals, at the latter 
end of the civil war, carried all the ammunition in a single pouch in front. 
Colonel O'Halloran, in his adaptation of Berrington's pack, places the pouch 
behind on a hip-belt; it holds sixty rounds. t Colonel Carter hangs his 
pouch on the right side behind, and supports it by a strap, which runs up and 
is attached to two shoulder-straps, which, passing down, join (in each case) a 
ring, from which two straps run down one to the waist-belt in front, and one 
to the same belt at the side. The pull is all on the rings in three directions, 
so that the weight is well distributed. The pouch holds seventy rounds, and 
is very easily carried in this way. Sir Thomas Trowbridge, when his valise 
is worn, places all the ammunition in front in two pouches, each holding 
thirty rounds ; but instead of connecting them with the knapsack, a strap, 
running from one pouch to the other, passes round the back of the neck, on 
which, however, it should not press. The two pouches thus balance each 
other, and are carried with the greatest ease.:}: 

Of all these plans, the present practice is the worst, and the new rifle prac- 
tice is, I believe, the best. The weights are on the scapulae, and are balanced on 
either side of the centre of gravity. Sir Thomas Trowbridge's second arrange- 

* Suggested by Colonel Sir Thomas Trowbridge, Bart., C.B., Director of Clothing. 

f The hip-belt must not be confounded with the waist-belt ; the latter passes round the 
body, and compresses the lower floating ribs ; it is, therefore, being tight, very objectionable. 
The hip-belt invented by Berrington is cut out to rest on the hips, and therefore is borne on that 
strong arch. It is by far the best arrangement. 

J I venture to suggest a plan of this kind for the army surgeon in the field, and for the men 
of the Army Hospital Corps. Instruments, medicines, and even food for the sick, could be 
carried with the greatest ease. 



392 WEIGHTS OF DRESS AND ACCOUTREMENTS. 

merit, and Colonel Carter's, are both very good ; but the former seems to me 
the best, as the weight is divided, and the weights balance each other. 

The Prussian experience, as well as trials at Chatham, show that there is 
no objection to the two pouches in front ; they do not press on the abdomen, 
or cause hernia, or have any bad eifect whatever. 

It has occurred to me, and no doubt to many others, that a hollow hip-belt 
might be worn, holding ammunition all round the weight would not then be 
collected into one or two dense masses, but would be equally distributed on 
the hip-bones; but yet no point would have more weight than one ounce. The 
belt even might be made part of the tunic. For rapid loading, a few car- 
tridges might be carried in a small ball-bag in front, which might be replenished 
from time to time from the hip-belt. 

SUB-SECTION III. THE PACK AND KIT. 

The weight of the field-kit ( = 7 J ft to 8 ft) might possibly be lessened still 
more by taking away the knife, fork, and spoon, and giving the soldier only 
a clasp-knife, with the handle prolonged and hollowed to serve as a spoon. 
The hold-all is indispensable, but the razor might be given up entirely, and 
the brushes lessened in number. The boots are the heaviest individual 
articles in the kit, and possibly, if magazines of boots are properly established 
in war, a pair of light shoes would be better in the pack. On talking with 
soldiers, both officers and men, I have found great divergence of opinion 
about the utility of the spare boots in the pack. It is a point on which it is 
very desirable some good authority should express an opinion. 

Possibly the weight of the field-kit, now about 7J ft to 8 ft, might be 
lessened to 7 ft, but probably not below. 

The pack carrying this kit should be as light as possible. The present 
pack weighs 4 ft, so that, to carry 8 ft, the soldier has 50 per cent, additional 
weight put on him. A great number of plans have been devised, of which I 
can notice only the chief. 

British Regulation Pack. Two straps pass over the shoulders and under 
the arms, and are fixed to hooks on the pack below. The whole weight of 
the pack and kit (12 ft) is thrown on the clavicle, on part of the first and 
second ribs, and the pectoral muscles. The movement of the clavicle and first 
rib is impeded, although in any exertion they are the parts which must be 
most free ; the axillary nerves and vessels are pressed on ; the hands become 
numbed, and often swell, so that men cannot use their rifles ; the cutting 
under the arm-pit is very disagreeable, and the carrying of the pack is on 
this account alone very irksome. 

ISTo plan is so unphilosophical as this ; there is a violation of all the rules 
just laid down. The man cannot put on or take off his pack, and if the arm- 
straps are not very tight, the pack falls back. To prevent this, a stick has 
been placed near the top of the pack, under which the straps pass. 

French Pack ((Jhasseurs de la Garde, 1861). Straps pass over the shoul- 
ders, and just below the axilla a strap running to the waist-belt is joined on ; 
another strap passes back and is fixed to the pack behind. 

This is a much better arrangement than the English, as there is very little 
pressure under the arm-pit ; but the weight is still not properly placed, and 
the waist-belt drags up, unless the men make it very tight, when it com- 
presses the lower ribs. The pack can be readily put on and taken off by the 
man without help. 

Prussian Pack (1860). The pack is cut to the back, and fits into the 
hollow below the scapula? ; it thus rests a little on the back itself and the 




CARRIAGE OF THE WEIGHTS. 393 

loins. From the top of the pack two broad straps pass over tne shoulders 
and fall to the waist-belt, where they are hooked ; the pouches, being attached 
to the same part of the waist-belt, balance in part the pack. From the 
shoulder-belt below the axilla a strap passes, to be hooked to the lower part 
of the pack. This pack rides low, but is very easy, and the man can put on 
and take off his pack himself, and very readily. It is understood that the 
Prussians approve highly of this method of carrying the pack. 

In this country various plans have been invented, of which the following 
are the chief : 

Berrington's or O'Halloran's Pack. More than twenty-five years ago Mr 
Berrington invented a pack which was tried on rather a large scale, and was 
very highly approved. It was not, however, adopted in the service, owing, 
Mr Berrington states,* to its price being rather greater than the regulation 
knapsack. If that be so, how much suffering nay, how much loss of service, 
and how many lives has this miserable economy occasioned ! Some time 
afterwards, Colonel Spiller attached two short rods to the bottom of the 
pack, and connected them by a broad band placed against the back, so as to 
throw the weight in part on the back. Subsequently, Colonel O'Halloran 
still further improved the details of the pack, and it is now known by his 
name. 

In Berrington's pack, two steel plates lie in front of the chest from the 
second to the fifth rib ; straps pass from these above to the top of the pack. 
Two straps also pass back from the shoulder-straps under the arms, which 
they do not touch, to the bottom of the pack. By this plan the weight is 
brought over the shoulder, and, as the steel plates rise and fall with the 
movements of the ribs, respiration is very little impeded ; the arms are quite 
free, and no muscles or nerves are pressed. 

Spiller's rods still farther relieve the chest, by throwing some of the weight 
on the loins. The pack is put on and off with the greatest ease by the 
wearer without help. 

This is an excellent pack, but at the end of a long day's march the steel 
plates somewhat impede the movements of the chest. 

Colonel Carter's Pack. From the bottom of the pack two slightly curved 
iron rods project, passing under the arms to about three inches in front of the 
chest. From the top of the pack straps come down and fasten to the ends of 
the rods. The weight of the pack is thus entirely thrown on the tops of the 
shoulders, and there is no pressure on any part. Eespiration is quite free. 
To give ventilation to the back, the pack is made with a double back, the 
inner back being of wickerwork. A flap behind covers the greatcoat. 

This is also an excellent pack, but there is an objection to the iron rods, 
which may get broken, or which may be splintered by shot. 

Mr Truss's Pack. Two iron plates are fixed in the coat, so as to rest on the 
tops of the shoulders. From the top of the pack two iron rods come off, and 
are fixed into the plates, and are then prolonged forwards, till they meet at 
the middle line about the lower end of the sternum. They do not touch the 
chest, but lie nearly an inch in front of it. The effect of this arrangement is 
to bring the weight on the shoulder ; and by the junction in front, to bring 
into play the principle of balance. The knapsack feels very comfortable when 
well adjusted ; but sufficient trials have not yet been made with it. 

Sir Thomas Trowbridge's Yoke and Valise. Struck with the imperfection 
of the regulation pack, and practically aware of the great discomfort it causes, 
Sir Thomas Trowbridge has for years been experimenting on this subject. He 

* The Berrington Knapsack and Slings. London, 1859. (Pamphlet.) 



394 



WEIGHTS OF DKESS AND ACCOUTREMENTS. 



has abandoned the framed knapsack, and has adopted a bag or valise, which 
rests on the loins, and is supported (by means of two curved rods) by a yoke, 
on the principle of the milkmaid's yoke, resting on the top of the shoulders. 
The weight is thrown on the top of the scapulae, and slightly on the loins. The 
chest is left perfectly free, and no muscles, nerves, or vessels are pressed on. 

This is by far the most comfortable pack yet invented, and it fulfils every 
mechanical and physiological requirement. In our trials at Chatham, it was 
preferred to Berrington's and Carter's, and the Prussian pack. The men 
marched very long distances with it, and came in as fresh as when they started. 

Pack invented by the Author. All the preceding packs are borne wholly, 
or in great part, on the shoulder. I have endeavoured to use the strong hip 
bones as the support. After many trials the simplest plan was found to be 
the best ; and by fixing two iron rods to the bottom of the pack, and receiving 
them into sockets fastened to Berrington's hip-belt (two straps run over the 
shoulders, and hook to the sockets in front), I found that the regulation pack 
and kit could be carried with great ease. But there are objections to this plan. 
The rods are liable to break. Each man must have his own sized rods ; as, if 
too short, the pack falls back, and is uncomfortable. It requires also to have 
the socket well padded, and to take care that it is placed just in front of 
the anterior superior spine of the ilium, so as not to press on the bone. The 
chest and arms are perfectly free. Although this plan is so easy, the objec- 
tions just mentioned are, I believe, fatal to its adoption ; and even in point 
of ease, I do not think it is equal to Sir Thomas Trowbridge's valise. 

Such, then, are the chief plans of carrying the pack. O'Halloran's, Carter's, 
Truss's, and Sir T. Trowbridge's, are, I believe, all much superior to the British 
regulation, the French, or the Prussian. 

Of these three, Sir T. Trowbridge's yoke and valise is, I believe, the best ; 
but further experiments are necessary.* 

The weights in ounces avoir, of some of these packs and accoutrements, are 





g 


. 


g 






ji 






1 


1 


| 


11 


5 


i 


'i 


Names. 


I 


,d 


1 




if 

1 


1 


1 


1 




2 







-^ w 


g 


EH' 


ft 




tj 


E 




r <3 










W 












CO 




Pack or valise, with ) 
straps or bands, . j 


64 


771 


89f 


) 91f l 

< or > 
(69}J 


91 


37| 


72 


Pouches and belts, with \ 
















waist-belt, ball-bag, > 
frog, &c., ... j 


64 


361 


40J 


40 


901 


29J 


43 


Total, . '. . . 


128 


114 


ISOi 


j 1 ^ 1 } 


181} 


67 


115 



* A Committee of the War Office is at the present moment considering the whole question, and 
trying experiments, by order of Lord de Grey, who is doing much for the efficiency of the army. 
The Committee have proposed a pack of their own, based on the Prussian principle ; and this pack, 
as also the Prussian, Sir T. Trowbridge's, and Colonel Carter's, are now being practically tested. 

t These packs are made, however, of different sizes and weights. The above weights are 
those of the packs used in our trials at Chatham. 



CARRIAGE OF THE WEIGHTS. 395 



The preceding table shows, what might have been anticipated, that the mere 
weight is not the point which determines whether the pack can be comfort- 
ably carried. Colonel Carter's is one of the heaviest, yet is very easily borne 
much more so than the lighter British regulation. The place where the- 
weights lie, and their distribution, determine the degree of comfort, and not 
the mere weight. 



I 



SUB-SECTION IV. GREATCOAT AND BLANKET. 



The greatcoat is now usually carried on the back of the pack an objection- 
able position, as it throws the weight so far from the body. Formerly, it was 
carried in a roll 011 the top of the pack. This is the easiest position ; only it 
was disliked by the men, as the coat was obliged to be rolled up very neatly. 
It took three men to do this ; and pins were obliged to be used, which tore 
the cloth. Some regiments carry the coat horse-shoe-like over the pack, and 
this is a very good plan. The easiest mode of all is to make a long roll of 
the coat, and to carry it over one or other shoulder across the chest. As there 
is no weight at the end, it does not bind down the chest like the pouch cross- 
belt. The objection to this is, that the blanket has to be carried in this way 
in war ; and it is impossible to carry both coat and blanket in this manner. 
The best plan, then, with the present pack, is horse-shoe-like, over it. 

With Sir Thomas Trowbridge's yoke, it can be carried on the top of the 
valise very easily. 

The blanket is best carried over the shoulder, if the regulation pack is used. 

SUB-SECTION V. CANTEEN AND HAVRESAC. 

The canteen is now carried at the top of the pack ; formerly it was carried 
011 the back of the pack. If the greatcoat is carried over the top, the canteen 
must be borne on the back of the pack, or hanging below it. It has been 
proposed to divide the canteen, and carry it on either side of the pack, but it 
is then in the way of the arms. With the present shape of canteen and equip- 
ment the best place seems the back of the pack, and as the canteen only 
weighs 21 ounces, while the greatcoat weighs from 64 to 80 ounces, the dis- 
tance of the canteen from the body is less irksome than when the greatcoat is 
in that position. With other contrivances of Colonel Carter or Sir T. Trow- 
bridge, the canteen can be very easily carried in two or three ways. 

The havresac is a canvas bag weighing 8 ounces, and is carried by a canvas 
belt which passes over the right shoulder and across the chest. This is a 
cross-belt, and when there are 4 or 6 Ib weight of provisions in the havresac it 
compresses the chest. It is not easy to suggest another plan with the present 
equipment. With some of the other packs the havresac can be carried much 
more easily. 

The water-bottle is attached to the waist-belt. 

If the present pack is continued, it may be suggested that the havresac 
and water-bottle should be used to balance each other, in the manner of Sir 
T. Trowbridge's pouches ; a strap passing round the back of the neck, and 
carrying in front the water-bottle at one side and the havresac at the other. 

It is, however, inadvisable to discuss this subject farther, as it is now under 
the consideration of the Government, and will no doubt receive a full inves- 
tigation. 



396 WEIGHTS OF DRESS AND ACCOUTREMENTS. 



SECTION III. 

EFFECTS ON HEALTH OF THE EEGULATION METHOD OF 
CARRYING THE AMMUNITION AND KIT. 

That the present method of carrying the weights is irksome, and at the end 
of a march becomes distressing, has been ascertained by many inquiries from 
soldiers. At the end of a long march the fatigue is great ; the men, if called 
upon for any exertion, such as ascending a hill at the double, or even quick 
movements on the level, do them with great difficulty, and with an extraor- 
dinary acceleration and accompanying feebleness of the heart's action, and great 
rapidity and shallowness of respiration. The hands, at the same time, are 
numbed and swollen, and the careful training which the men now receive at 
rifle practice is entirely neutralised, as they can scarcely pull the trigger of 
their rifles. On long marches, or on field-days at the camp (if the men carry 
their kits in their pack, which happily they seldom do), some men always 
fall out, and the number would be greater were it not that the soldier fears 
the banter of his comrades. Occasionally, it is said, men have died after field- 
days ; and the death of a man, on the march of the Guards to Guildford, a 
few years since, created, it is well known, a great sensation. 

From careful trials at Chatham, made by order of Major-General Eyre, it 
was proved that other packs did not produce these effects. With Berring- 
ton's (O'Halloran's), Carter's, and especially Sir T. Trowbridge's, the men at 
the end of 16 miles' march came in fresh, could ascend hill easily, and de- 
clared that they could have made the march over again without rest. 

It is quite clear, then, that this is a military question of the greatest moment, 
since it comes to this, that the present plan lessens, to a very great extent, the 
fighting qualities of the soldier. The English soldier, in fact, is so bound up 
with straps and belts that he is almost as rigid as a statue, a plan which is 
about as sensible as placing shackles on a racehorse. 

But there is another equally important consideration. If the pack and 
pouch are much worn (and it has become the custom to require the pack to be 
carried much more frequently than formerly), the men suffer in health, and 
there is a loss of service to the State. 

So large a portion of the English army is serving in India, where the packs 
are never carried, and are only put on for inspection, that the injury produced 
on those who do wear the pack frequently has not attracted so much atten- 
tion as it deserves. But that observant army surgeons have long been aware 
of the fact is certain, and of late years the greater accuracy of diagnosis en- 
ables us to trace more perfectly the influence of faulty accoutrements.* In the 
French army the frequency with which the older soldiers suffer from emphy- 
sema of the lungs has long been a matter of remark, and has been ascribed to 
the accoutrements ; in our army that disease does not, I believe, so frequently 
occur in the invaliding returns, but it may be more common than is supposed. 
But among the invalids of the army (i.e., the men who are sent to the Gene- 
ral Invaliding Hospital as unfit for duty) there appears to be a very large 
proportion of cases of heart disease. My colleague, Dr Maclean, has paid 

* The older statistical returns of the army cannot be referred to as evidence, as the nomen- 
clature employed (Cullen's) was not accurate ; the different kinds of heart diseases Avere not 
distinguished, and emphysema of the lungs was not included. Taking the years 1859-63, it is 
found that, in a list of the causes of death in the army, diseases of the heart and vessels take 
the second place (see table in chapter on HOME SERVICE). 



I 



EFFECTS OF IMPROPER WEIGHTS. 397 

particular attention to this subject, and the following quotation from a lecture,* 
given by him at the Koyal United Service Institution, puts the case in a very 
forcible way, Dr Maclean says : 

" I had not been long in the position I have the honour to fill in the public 
service, before I became profoundly impressed with the vast losses sustained 
by the prevalence in the army of consumption and diseases of the circulatory 
system, that is, of the heart and great vessels. Within the last three years, 
excluding those who die in regimental and depot hospitals, and those of the 
Household troops (I exclude all invalided in Ireland, of whom we at Netley 
see nothing), no less than 1344 men have been lost to the service from con- 
sumption alone. Now, the causes in operation tending to produce this enor- 
mous and costly loss are many and complicated. That the present accoutre- 
ments and knapsack, interfering as they do with the free play of the important 
organs within the chest, exert an important influence in this direction, I do 
not doubt ; but as the proof of this would lead me into details, and involve 
many points of inquiry not suited for discussion here, I shall not go further 
into it on this occasion, but will direct your attention to another source of 
inefficiency, which can be more directly traced to the mischievous constriction 
to which we subject the chests of our soldiers at the time we demand from 
them the maximum of exertion. 

"Between the 1st of July 1860 and the 30th of June 1861, 2769 men 
were discharged the service at Fort Pitt ; of these, 445 (or 16-07 per cent.) 
were under two years' service ; and of these 445 discharges, heart diseases 
made up 137 per cent. From the 1st July 1861 to 30th June 1862, 4087 
men were discharged the service; 569 of them (or 13 '9 2 per cent.) had less 
than two years' service, and of these 14-76 per cent, were lost to the service 
from heart diseases. 

" From the date of my assuming charge of the medical division at Fort Pitt, 
in April 1861, to the end of last year, no less than 883 cases of diseases of 
the circulatory system in other words, a number nearly equal to the strength 
of a battalion have passed under my observation, and been lost to the ser- 
vice, and this from one class of disease ; the great bulk of the cases being 
young men returned to the civil population (that is, cast upon their parishes), 
and incapable of earning their bread in any active employment. The pension 
allowed to such short-service men is but a pittance, and that pittance is granted 
only for a limited period. Let me remind you again, that in the figures I 
have given, the invalids of the Royal Artillery, the Guards, and the troops 
serving in Ireland, are not included ; they were discharged without being 
seen by us at all. 

" Surely, gentlemen, you will agree with me, after hearing a statement so 
startling, that it behoves us to look narrowly into a question involving such 
an amount of suffering, costly invaliding, and inefficiency, with a view to the 
adoption of a remedial measure. 

" Before I address myself to an examination of the accoutrements and knap- 
sack, and show the evils they induce, I must advert for a moment to three 
causes which are supposed to exercise a disturbing influence on the organs of 
circulation, and to act either as predisposing or exciting causes of disease of 
the heart, viz., rheumatism, intemperance, and excessive smoking. 

" Rheumatism affects the fibrous structure of the frame ; these structures 
enter into the formation of the delicate valves of the heart, and these valves 

* The Influence of the present Knapsack and Accoutrements on the Health of the Infantry 
Soldier. By W. C. Maclean, M.D., Professor of Military Medicine in the Army Medical 
School. Journal of the Royal United Service Institution, vol. viii. - 



398 WEIGHTS OF DRESS AND ACCOUTREMENTS. 

are apt to suffer from this disease, to have their mechanism injured, and so to 
interfere prejudicially with the working of the heart the central moving- 
power. Now, many cases of heart disease can be traced to this cause, and 
soldiers, from the very nature of their calling, are of course much exposed to 
rheumatism but, making a fair allowance for this, particularly among old 
soldiers, an immense number of cases remain that cannot be accounted for in 
this way. A vast number of the young soldiers discharged the service for 
heart disease have never suffered from rheumatism at all. 

" With regard to intemperance, it is undeniable that the presence of alcohol 
in the blood exercises a prejudicial influence on the heart and great vessels, as 
well as on other organs, but here we have the same difficulty to meet, viz., 
that a large proportion of our young lads are lost to the service from heart 
disease ere they have contracted the baneful habit of spirit drinking. 

" Nor do I deny that excessive abuse of tobacco may in many cases result 
in an irritable condition of the heart, incapacitating a man from much exer- 
tion ; but I think there is no proof that young soldiers smoke more than other 
classes of the population. 

"Is it that soldiers are called upon to make greater exertions than the 
labouring and manufacturing classes? Doubtless the soldier has at drills, 
marches, and field-days, to put forth considerable exertion ; but is this more 
than, or so much, as we see daily done by our ' navvies,' and others of the 
labouring classes ? I think not. We must look, then, to the different con- 
ditions under which the two classes work. A labouring man or mechanic, 
when he addresses himself to his work, lays aside every weight, and every 
article of dress that can in the slightest degree interfere with the free move- 
ment of his chest and limbs. In like manner, the sportsman, or the Alpine 
tourist, adapts his dress to the work in which he is engaged. But the soldier, 
on the other hand, is called on to make the severest exertions, at the utmost 
possible disadvantage as regards the weight he has to carry, the mode in which 
he has to carry it, and the entire arrangement of his dress and equipment." 

The following figures show that both heart and lung diseases are more 
common, as Dr Maclean points out, among young than old soldiers. 

I took out from the books of the invaliding establishment at Fort Pitt,* 
the causes of invaliding during two successive years, 1st July 1860 to 30th 
June 1861, and during the same period in 1861-1862. 

1860-61. 1861-62. 

Total invalided at all ages, .... 2769 4087 
Of these invalided under two years' service, . 445 569 

Percentage invalided under two years, . . 16*07 13'92 
Percentage of heart cases in the men under two 

years' service, 13'7 14-76 

Percentage of lung cases, chiefly consumption, 

in the men under two years' service, . . 34 '15 25 '83 

Out of 100 men discharged under two years' service, heart and lung disease 
together constituted in one year 47'85, and in the other 40'59. 

In order to form a standard of comparison, which cannot be obtained from 
the civil population (as deaths only are recorded in the Eegistrar-General's 
returns), I compared this amount of heart and lung disease among the young 
soldiers with the same diseases among the invalids of all ages at Fort Pitt 
in the two years. The following numbers came out : 



* The invaliding at Fort Pitt included only a portion of the army. 




EFFECTS OF IMPKOPEK WEIGHTS. 399 

Percentage of heart Percentage of lung 

diseases as causes diseases as causes 

of invaliding. of invaliding. 

Invalids of aU ages, . . . 77 19-8 

Invalids under two years' service, . 14'23 29-99 

Heart and lung diseases, therefore, form a much larger percentage among the 
young soldiers; and this would have come out more clearly still had the 
number of young soldiers been deducted from the number at all ages. 

How is this to be accounted for 1 The recruits are carefully examined ; 
they have no heart or lung disease ; how is it that such diseases are developed 
during their first two years of service, and indeed more during the second 
year than the first ? 

Dr Maclean has already argued this question, and I believe his observations, 
already quoted, render it very highly probable that it is to the exertion we 
demand from recruits, while we bind down their ribs with dress and accoutre- 
ments, the production of heart disease, and of some of the lung disease, must 
be traced. At any rate, this seems the most obvious cause of this result. 

The general rules deducible from all that has been said are these : 

1. The soldier must carry a certain weight, but he should not carry one 
single ounce more than is absolutely necessary,* either in the shape of clothes 
or equipment. 

2. The necessaries, while enough for comfort, should not be superfluous. 

3. The belts and apparatus necessary for carrying his ammunition and ne- 
cessaries should be as light as possible, and the weights must be disposed 
according to correct principles. 

4. If these points are not attended to, the value of the soldier as an agent 
of force will be proportionably lessened ; he will be more liable to disease, 
and his term of service will be shortened. 

* Robert Jackson (" Formation, Discipline, and Economy of Armies," p. 383) speaks very 
strongly against the practice of " multiplying the equipments of the soldier termed necessaries 
with a view of adding to his comfort. The case is mistaken ; there is not more personal com- 
fort, and there is inconvenience from the possession of quantity. Superfluity of baggage is a 
common error in the British service, and the usual manner of disposing of it for carriage is not, 
moreover, well contrived." 



CHAPTER XV. 

DESCRIPTION OF THE METEOROLOGICAL INSTRU- 
MENTS USED IN THE ARMY, AND A FEW REMABKS 
ON METEOROLOGY. 

As the Army Medical Officer is expected to send in meteorological observa- 
tions at all stations where instruments are provided, it is desirable to 
give a few plain instructions on the use of these instruments.* For the 
convenience of beginners, also, I have made a few observations on Meteor- 
ology. 

* Only the instruments issued by the Army Medical Department are described in the text. 
Sir Henry James's very useful book (" Instructions in Meteorology") is issued to all the gentle- 
men who attend the Army Medical School. 

The following is the official circular issued by the Army Medical Department: 

Official Instructions for Reading the Meteorological Instruments. 

The observer should make himself thoroughly acquainted with the scale of every instrument, 
especially with that of the barometer and its attached vernier, and by frequent comparisons 
ascertain that he and his deputy read the instruments alike, and record the observations accu- 
rately. 

All observations must be recorded exactly as read. The corrections are to be made only at 
the end of each month on the "means" of the "sums." 

Barometrical observations must be recorded to the third decimal place ; thermometrical to 
the first decimal. When the readings are exactly to the inch or degree, the places for the deci- 
mals must he filled up with ciphers. 

The observations should be made as quickly as possible, consistently with perfect accuracy, 
and the observer must avoid breathing on the instruments, particularly the dry and wet bulb, 
and maximum thermometers. 

Barometer Readings. Note the temperature of attached thermometer in degrees only ; by 
means of the thumb-screw at the bottom adjust the mercury in the cistern to its proper level, 
the point of the ivory cone, which should just touch the mercury without breaking the surface ; 
then bring the zero line of the vernier to the level of the apex of the column of mercury, and 
read off in the manner described at pages 15 and 16 of Sir H. James's Book of Instructions. 

Thermometer Readings. The scales are divided to degrees only, but these are so open that 
the readings can be determined to the tenth of a degree. Practice and attention will insure 
accuracy. 

Maximum Thermometer in Shade. The maximum thermometer must be hung at such a dis- 
tance (2 or 3 inches) from the water vessel of the wet-bulb thermometer, that its readings may 
not be affected by evaporation. 

In hanging the maximum, care must be taken that the end of the tube is slightly inclined 
downwards, which will have the effect of assisting in preventing the return of any portion of 
the column of mercury into the bulb on a decrease of temperature. To read the instrument, 
gently elevate the end furthest from the bulb to an angle of about 45, in which position of the 
instrument note the reading. To reset the thermometer, a gentle shake or swing, or a tap on 
the wooden frame of the instrument, will cause the excess of mercury to return to the bulb, 
and it is again ready for use. 

Maximum in Sun's Rays, or the Vacuum Solar Radiation Thermometer. Being constructed 
on the same principle as the last-mentioned instrument, it must be read in a similar position. 
After completing the reading, by giving the instrument a slight shake, with the bulb still in- 
clined downwards, the excess of mercury will return to the bulb, and the thermometer be ready 
for the next observation. 

Minimum Thermometer in Shade. The minimum thermometer must be so hung that the 



TEMPERATURE OF THE AIR. 401 

SECTION I. 
THERMOMETERS FOR TAKING THE TEMPERATURE OF THE AIR. 

Maximum Thermometers. 

Two maximum thermometers are issued one to observe the greatest heat 
in the sun, the other in the shade. 

The Sun Maximum or " Solar Radiation Thermometer " is formed by a 
glass case (from which the air is removed), containing a mercurial thermometer 
with a blackened bulb. The case shelters from currents of air ; the black 
bulb absorbs the sun's rays. The tube of the thermometer is slightly bent 
near the bulb, and a piece of porcelain is inserted which narrows the tube. 
The effect of this is to make the thermometer self-registering, as, after the 
mercury has expanded to its fullest extent, instead of retiring into the bulb 
on cooling, it is stopped by the porcelain, and the mercury breaks between 
the porcelain and the bulb. The instrument is placed near the ground on 
wooden supports, and in any place where the sun's rays can freely fall on it. 

The Shade Maximum is a mercurial thermometer, not enclosed in a case ; 
the tube is bent just above the bulb, and a piece of porcelain or glass is fixed, 
so that a very small opening only is left between the bulb and the stem. As 
in the sun maximum, when the mercury has expanded from heat it does not 

bulb may be about one inch lower than the other extremity of the instrument, because in this 
position the index is less likely to be affected by a rise in temperature. 

The extremity of the index furthest from the bulb shows the lowest degree to which the 
spirit has fallen since the last observation. The reading on the scale corresponding to this is the 
temperature to be recorded. Then, by elevating the bulb, the index will float towards the end 
of the spirit. When it has nearly^ arrived at that point, the instrument is re-set. 

Minimum on Grass or Terrestrial Radiation Thermometer is constructed like the last, and 
the directions above given are also applicable to it. 

After reading and re-setting the self-registering thermometers, compare them with the dry- 
bulb thermometer in order to ascertain that their readings are nearly the same. 

Dry and Wet Bulb Thermometers. Bring the eye on a level with the top of the mercury in 
the tube of the dry -bulb thermometer, and take the reading, then complete the observation by 
noting in like manner the reading of the wet-bulb thermometer. 

The temperature of the air is given by the former, that of evaporation by the latter. From 
these data the hygrometrical results are to be calculated by Glaisher's Tables, 3d edition. 

Rain Gauge and Measure. Pour the contents of the gauge into any convenient vessel with a 
lip, and from this into the glass measure, which has been graduated especially for the gauge, 
and is only to be used in measuring its contents. It is graduated to the hundredths of an inch. 

Anemometer. The dials are read from left to right. The first on the left records hundreds 
of miles, the second tens, the third miles, the fourth tenths of a mile, and the fifth hundredths 
of a mile. 

The reading of the anemometer is obtained by deducting from the amount registered by the 
dials the total sum registered at the period of the preceding observation. The difference be- 
tween these (subject to a small correction) indicates the velocity or horizontal movement of the 
air in miles during the interval, and must be entered in the return. When the instrument is 
first set up, the reading on the dials must be noted, in order that it may be deducted from the 
total registered by the dials at the end of the first period of observation. 

In making observations on the presence of ozone, a box has been found to be unnecessary, 
equally satisfactory results having been obtained by fixing the paper immediately under the 
penthouse of the stand, which shelters it sufficiently from a strong light, while it secures proper 
exposure. 

The minimum thermometers are liable to get out of order, first, by carriage, when the index 
may be wholly or partly driven out of the spirit, or a portion of spirit may become detached 
from the main column ; and, secondly, by slow evaporation of the spirit, which, rising in the 
tube, condenses at the upper end. The first-mentioned errors are corrected by taking the ther- 
mometer in the hand, with its bulb downwards, and giving it a swing up and down. The 
second is remedied by the inclined position of the instrument, which allows the condensed spirit 
to ti'ickle back to the main column. 

N.B. On no account whatever is artificial heat to be applied to a spirit thermometer. In 
re-setting the minimum, the index should never be brought quite to the end of the column of 
spirit. 



402 DESCRIPTION OF METEOROLOGICAL INSTRUMENTS. 

on cooling contract into the bulb, but breaks between the obstruction and 
the bulb, so that the mercury in the stem remains at the height it had 
reached during the time of the greatest heat. 

The thermometer is placed in the shade four feet above the ground, and 
sufficiently far from any walls to be unaffected by radiation. It should be 
freely exposed to air, but perfectly protected from the sun's rays. 

Minimum TJiermometers. 

Two minimum thermometers are supplied. 

The Shade Minimum is an alcoholic thermometer with a small index in the 
alcohol. It is set by shaking the index nearly to the end of the spirit ; as 
the spirit contracts during cold it carries the index down ; when it expands 
again it cannot move the index, but leaves it at the degree of greatest cold. 
The end of the index farthest from the bulb is the point to read. 

This thermometer is placed in the shade four feet above ground, under the 
same conditions as the former. 

The Grass Minimum or "Terrestrial Radiation Thermometer" is a ther- 
mometer of the same kind, but protected by a glass shield. It is placed 
almost close to the ground on grass, suspended on little tripods of wood ; it 
is intended to indicate the amount of cooling produced by radiation from the 
ground. 

Common TJiermometer. 

The dry bulb of the " wet and dry bulb thermometer " is read as a common 
thermometer. 

Heading of the Thermometers. 

All these thermometers can be read to tenths of a degree. The maximum 
and minimum thermometers are read once a-day, usually at 9 A.M. ; the former 
marks the highest point reached on the previous afternoon, and must be so 
entered on the return ; the latter the lowest point reached on the same morn- 
ing. For the army returns the common thermometer is read twice a-day, at 
9 A.M. and 3 P.M. 

Range of the Temperature. The maximum and minimum in shade give 
most important climatic indications; the difference between them on the 
same day constitutes the range of the diurnal fluctuation. The range is ex- 
pressed in several ways. 

The extreme daily range is the difference between the maximum and 
minimum thermometer on any one day. 

The extreme monthly or annual range is the difference between the greatest 
and it,ast height in any month or year. 

The mean monthly range is the daily ranges added and divided by the 
number of days in a month. 

The mean yearly range is the monthly ranges added and divided by 1 2. 

Mean Temperature. The mean temperature of the day is obtained in the 
following ways : 

(a.) Absolutely at Greenwich and other observatories, where by means of 
photography the height of the thermometer at every moment of the day is 
registered. 

(b.) Almost absolutely, if the thermometer is noted every hour, and the 
mean of the observations are taken. 

(c.) Approximately in several ways. Taking the mean of the shade 
maximum and minimum of the same day. In this country, during the cold 
months (December and January), the result is very close to the truth, but as 



TEMPEEATURE OF THE AIR. 403 

the temperature increases, a greater and greater error is produced, until in 
July the mean monthly error is+ 1 0> 9 Fahr., and in some hot days is much 
greater. In the tropics, the mean of the maximum and minimum must give 
a, result still farther from the truth. 

In this country, the application of a monthly correction has been suggested 
by Mr Glaisher. It is this 

Subtract from the monthly mean of the maximum and minimum 



January, 0'2 

February, 0'4 

March, 1 

April, 1-5 



May, 1-7 

June, 1-8 

July, 1-9 

August, 1 -7 



September, 1'3 
October, 1 
November, 0'4 
December, 0*0 



The result is the approximate mean temperature. But this is true only for 
this country. It would be very desirable to work out in each country the 
proper correction. 

In a great number of places the mean temperature of the day and year, as 
stated in books, is derived solely from the mean of the maximum and mini- 
mum, and cannot be considered as correct. 

The approximate mean temperature may be obtained by taking observations 
at certain times during the day, and applying a correction. Mr Glaisher has 
given some very valuable tables of this kind,* which can be consulted. The 
following rules, which are applicable in all parts of the world, are given by 
Herschel : t 

If observations are taken three times daily at 7 A.M., 2 P.M., and 9 P.M. 
hours which we may denote by , If, and t" ; then 

t + f + 2f 

- = mean temperature of day. 
4 

If the hours are 8 A.M., 3 P.M., and 10 P.M., the formula is 



Another simple mode of getting an approximation to the mean temperature 
is this : Take the mean of the maximum and minimum, and call it t; if a 
single observation, f , is made with the dry bulb, then 

2 



If two observations (f and t*) are taken beside the maximum and minimum, 
the rule is 

2 t + t' + f 

4 
and so on. 

The nearest approach to the mean temperature of the day by a single 
observation is given at from 8 to 9 P.M. ; the next is in the morning about 
8 o'clock in July and 10 in December and January. 

The nearest approach to the mean annual temperature is given by the mean 
of the month of October. Observations made from a week before to a week 
after the 24th April, and again in the corresponding weeks of October, give a 

* On the Corrections to be Applied to Meteorological Observations for Diurnal Range, 
prepared by the Council of the British Meteorological Society, 1850. These corrections are 
applicable only to this country. 

t Meteorology, p. 173. 

" 



404 DESCRIPTION OF METEOROLOGICAL INSTRUMENTS. 

certain approximation to the yearly mean temperature (Herschel, " Meteor- 
ology," p. 180). 

The changes in temperature of any place, during the day or year, are either 
periodic or non-periodic. The former are dependent on day and night, and 
on the seasons, i.e., on the position of the place with respect to the sun. The 
periodic changes are sometimes termed fluctuations, and the difference between 
day and night temperatures, or the temperatures of the hottest and coldest 
months, are often called the amplitudes of the daily or yearly fluctuations. 

The non-periodic changes are dependent chiefly on shifting winds, and may 
either augment or lessen the periodic changes. They are sometimes termed 
undulations. The thermometer makes, of course, no distinction between these 
two causes of change, but the observer should distinguish them if possible. 

Daily Periodic Changes. On land the temperature of the air is at its lowest 
about 3 o'clock A.M., or just before sunrise, and at its maximum about 2 
o'clock P.M. ; it then falls nearly regularly to 3 o'clock A.M. On water the 
maximum is nearly an hour later. 

The amount of diurnal periodic change is greater on land than on water ; 
in the interior of continents than by the sea-side ; in elevated districts than 
at sea-level. As far as land is concerned, it is least on the sea-coast of tropical 
islands, as at Kingston in Jamaica, Colombo in Ceylon, Singapore, &c. 

Yearly Periodic Changes. In the northern hemisphere the coldest month 
is usually January ; in some parts of Canada it is February. On the sea the 
coldest month is later, viz., March. The hottest month is in most places 
July, in some few August ; on the sea it is always August. The coldest days 
in this country are towards the 21st January; the hottest about the 18th to 
the 21st July. At Toronto the hottest day is 37 days after the summer 
solstice, and the coldest 55 days after the winter solstice. 

It is thus seen that both for the diurnal and animal alterations of heat the 
greatest heat is not simultaneous with, but is after, the culmination of the sun ; 
this is owing to the slow absorption of heat by the earth. 

The amplitude of the yearly fluctuation is greater on land than sea, and is 
augmented by land, so that it reaches its highest point in the interior of great 
extra-tropical continents. 

It increases towards the poles for three reasons, 

1. The geographical fluctuation of the earth's position causes a great yearly 
difference of the angle with which the sun's rays fall on the earth. 

2. The duration of incidence of the sun's rays (i.e., the number of hours of 
sunshine or shade) has greater yearly differences than in the tropics. 

3. In the northern hemisphere especially there is a very great extent of land 
whicl increases radiation. 

The amplitude of the yearly fluctuation is very small in the tropical land at 
sea level. At Singapore it is only 3*4 Fahr. (Jan. 78*8, July 82*4), while it 
is immense on continents near the pole. At Jakoutsk, in North Asia, it is 
112'5 ( January -44-5, and J u ly+ 68). 

Undulations or Non- Periodic Changes are irregular changes, and are chiefly 
caused by the wind, or to a less extent by clouds, rain, and evaporation, and 
by great and rapid radiation from the earth. In the tropics near the sea they 
are slightest, and chiefly depend on coast and sea winds. In the higher 
mountainous regions they are greater; they are greatest in those countries 
which lie in the debateable region between the cold polar, N". and NE., and 
the warmer equatorial, S. and SW. winds (anti-trades). They are, however, 
often dependent on local winds, caused especially by the vicinity of high lands. 

In any place there may be great undulations and small fluctuations, or great 
changes in each way. At Brussels the greatest possible yearly undulation is 



<>}' 'IHK 



407 



' ' Ottbii !' I'J. i>f V'i/>><i, under it , 

<>f M'l'-'li >/ l',l >>'/'/ '/'<///:/ '// l''nij,'-/'llilf''. jr'HI' ' /', 100'. '/'/// //,; 

////v ; ;,; //,,; ,/, // point) "i" 1 ii"' >""//>> >>j I'l],',", '-. H" >/'/'//,/ which '''/>. //> 
toed "i 1 1 '"./'; urUhaut >" >'i > 



TVrnr.. 


;'.t in 
of a 


T'-.rnp, 


Weight in 

of a 


Tf.niti. 


St in 
grain* of a 


7V- m p. 

fifer. 


Weight, in 
pMR 











20 




51 


JfW. 

4-24 



70 


grs. 


1 


0-57 


27 








77 


o-oo 




0-M 


28 








78 


10-31 




0-02 








4-71 


70 


10-01 


4 


0-6C 




1-97 




4-87 




10 






ff] 






5-01 


61 


11 




0-71 




L'-I:; 


57 


5-21 




11-07 


7 


0-74 




2-21 


58 




83 


12-03 


8 


0-77 




2-30 




5-58 




12-40 











60 


5-77 




12-78 


10 




M 


2-48 


61 


5-07 


80 


13-17 


!l 


0-88 


57 


2.57 


02 


6*17 


87 


13-57 


12 


0*92 




2-00 






88 


13 




0-90 


89 


2-70 


M 




80 


14-41 


M 


I -00 


16 


2-80 




641 


00 


M-85 




i-ot 


41 


2-07 


06 


7-01 


01 


15-20 


10 


1 -00 


12 




67 


7-27 


92 


15-74 


17 


14 




940 


66 


7-51 


93 


1021 


18 


JO 


n 




69 


7-70 


01 


10-00 


19 


2J 


15 


:;-n 


70 


8-01 


05 


17-18 


20 


:',<) 


40 


8-56 


71 


8-27 


00 


17-08 


2] 


30 


47 


:'><,'.* 


72 


8-54 


07 


18-20 


22 


JL> 


48 




73 


8-82 


08 


18-7:; 


2:5 




49 




71 


o-io 


00 


10-28 


24 


54 


50 


4-10 


75 


9-30 


100 


10 


25 


1-61 















f: df:\v point in ohtairif:'! tl.irf.fJI.fj hy 1 )anif:ir.-: or lio^nault's hygrornotor, 
f:rui : :ool an'l not.fj tho t.f.rn j>f. rat uro of a hri^ht surface until the. 

on it, or by rm-.an.-', of the dry anrl wr;t bulbs. 

('rile.-;.-; the air in sat united, the temperature of tbe wet bulb (/.., tbe 
temperature, of evaporation; i.-: alwayn above the dew-point, but is below the 
temperature of the dry bulb, bein# reduced by the evaporation. If the dry 
and wet bulbs are of the name temperature, the air in .saturated with rn< 
and the temjHirature noted i.-s the dew-point ; if they are not of the same 
temperature, the dew-point in at some distance below the wet bulb temperature. 
It can then be calculated out in two ways. 
(ft..) By Mr Glai.shcr'.s factor-:. By comparison of the result of Daniell's 

.ueter and the dry and wet bulb thermometers for a long term of 
Mr Cilfiisher has deduced an empirical formula, which is thus worked. Take 
the difference of the dry arid wet bulb, and multiply it by the factor which 
-tands opposite the d.nj l>n.H> temperature in the following table, deduct the 
product from the >//// bulb temperature, the result is the dew-point : 



406 DESCRIPTION OF METEOROLOGICAL INSTRUMENTS. 

5. Aerial and Ocean Currents. These have a great effect, bringing clouds 
which block out the sun or produce rain, or which, in the case of ocean cur- 
rents, cool or warm the air. The cold polar sea currents and the warm equa- 
torial (like the Gulf-stream) in some cases almost determine, and always 
greatly influence, the temperature of a place. 

6. Nature of the Soil. On this point little is yet known, but it is certain 
that some soils easily absorb heat ; others do not. The moist and clayey soils 
are cold ; the dry hard rocks and dry sands are hot. 

The hottest places on the earth are in the eastern hemisphere, near the 
Eed Sea, at Massava and Khartoum (15 N.L.), and on the Mle in Lower 
Nubia ; annual temperature = 90 -5 Fahr. ; in the western hemisphere, on the 
Continent, near the West Indies, the annual temperature is 81'5. These 
are sometimes called the climatic poles of heat. The poles of cold are in 
Siberia (Jakoutsk to Ustjausk, 62 N.), and near Melville Island. 

Isothermal Lines. These are lines drawn on charts, and were proposed by 
Humboldt to connect all places having the same mean annual temperature. 
The various conditions just noted cause these lines to deviate more or less 
from the lines of latitude. The isothermal lines are now drawn to represent 
the places of the same mean monthly, or mean winter or summer temperature. 

The lines of mean summer temperature (three months, June, July, August) 
are called isotheral ; those of mean winter temperature (December, January, 
and February) are called isocheimonal. 



SECTION II. 
HYGROMETEKS HUMIDITY OF THE AIK. 

The amount of watery vapour in the air can be determined in several ways ; 
by direct weighing, by Daniell's or Regnault's hygrometer, by the hair hygro- 
meter, and by the dry and wet bulbs. The method by the dry and wet bulb 
thermometers has been adopted by the Army Medical Department, and ob- 
servations are taken twice daily (9 A.M. and 3 P.M.) The instruments are not 
self-registering, and are simply read off. They are placed in the shade, four feet 
above the ground, the bulbs freely exposed to the air, but not exposed to the 
effect of radiant heat from brick walls, &c. The wet bulb is covered with 
muslin, which is kept moistened by cotton twisted round the bulb and then 
passing into the water vessel ; the cotton is soaked in solution of carbonate of 
soda, or boiled in ether to free it from fat, so that water may ascend easily in 
it by capillary attraction ; the water must be either rain or distilled water. 
The dew-point, the weight of a cubic foot of vapour, and the relative humidity, 
are then taken from Mr Glaisher's tables.* 

Definition of these terms. The dew-point is the temperature when the air 
is just saturated with moisture, so that the least further fall would cause a 
deposit of water. The quantity of vapour which can be taken up and be 
made quite invisible to the senses varies with temperature. The following 
table gives the weight of a cubic foot of vapour, or to use the common, though 
not quite accurate, phrase, the weight of vapour in a cubic foot of air at 
different temperatures when the air is saturated with moisture : 

* Hygrometrical Tables, 3d edition, 1863. A copy is now sent to each station. 



HUMIDITY OF THE AIR, 



407 



Weight in Grains of a Cubic Foot of Vapour, under the pressure of 30 inches 
of Mercury for every degree of temperature, from to 100. The tempera- 
ture is the dew-point, and the weight of vapour is the weight which can be 
sustained at that temperature without being visible. 



Temp. 
Fahr. 


Weight in 
grains of a 
Cubic Foot of 
Vapour. 


Temp. 
Falir. 


Weight in 
grains of a 
Cubic Foot of 
Vapour. 


Temp. 
Fahr. 


Weight in 
grains of a 
Cubic Foot ol 
Vapour. 


Temp. 
Fahr. 


Weight iu 
grains of a 
Cubic Foot of 
Vapour. 





grs. l 





grs. 





grs. 





grs. 





0-55 


26 


1-68 


51 


4-24 


76 


9-69 


1 


0-57 


27 


1-75 


52 


4-39 


77 


9-99 


2 


0-59 


28 


1-82 


53 


4-55 


78 


10-31 


3 


0-62 


29 


1-89 


54 


4-71 


79 


10-64 


4 


0-65 


30 


1-97 


55 


4-87 


80 


10-98 


5 


0-68 


31 


2-05 


56 


5-04 


81 


11-32 


6 


0-71 


32 


2-13 


57 


5-21 


82 


11-67 


7 


0-74 


33 


2-21 


58 


5-39 


83 


12-03 


8 


0-77 


34 


2-30 


59 


5-58 


84 


12-40 


9 


0-80 


35 


2-39 


60 


5-77 


85 


12-78 


10 


0-84 


36 


2-48 


61 


5-97 


86 


13-17 


11 


0-88 


37 


2.57 


62 


6-17 


87 


13-57 


12 


0-92 


38 


2-66 


63 


6-38 


88 


13-98 


13 


0-96 


39 


2-76 


64 


6-59 


89 


14-41 


14 


1-00 


40 


2-86 


65 


6-81 


90 


14-85 


15 


1-04 


41 


2-97 


66 


7-04 


91 


15-29 


16 


1-09 


42 


3-08 


67 


7-27 


92 


15-74 


17 


14 


43 


3-20 


68 


7-51 


93 


16-21 


18 


19 


44 


3-32 


69 


7-76 


94 


16-69 


19 


24 


45 


3-44 


70 


8-01 


95 


17-18 


20 


30 


46 


3-56 


71 


8-27 


96 


17-68 


21 


36 


47 


3-69 


72 


8-54 


97 


18-20 


22 


' -42 


48 


3-82 


73 


8-82 


98 


18-73 


23 


48 


49 


3-96 


74 


9-10 


99 


19-28 


24 


54 


50 


4-10 


75 


9-39 


100 


19-84 


25 


61 















The dew-point is obtained directly by Daniell's or Regnault's hygrometer, 
which enables us to cool and note the temperature of a bright surface until the 
dew is deposited on it, or by means of the dry and wet bulbs. 

Unless the air is saturated, the temperature of the wet bulb (i.e., the 
temperature of evaporation) is always above the dew-point, but is below the 
temperature of the dry bulb, being reduced by the evaporation. If the dry 
and wet bulbs are of the same temperature, the air is saturated with moisture, 
and the temperature noted is the dew-point ; if they are not of the same 
temperature, the dew-point is at some distance below the wet bulb temperature. 

It can then be calculated out in two ways. 

(a.) By Mr Glaisher's factors. By comparison of the result of Daniell's 
hygrometer and the dry and wet bulb thermometers for a long term of years, 
Mr Glaisher has deduced an empirical formula, which is thus worked. Take 
the difference of the dry and wet bulb, and multiply it by the factor which 
stands opposite the dry bulb temperature in the following table, deduct the 
product from the dry bulb temperature, the result is the dew-point : 



408 



DESCRIPTION OF METEOROLOGICAL INSTRUMENTS. 



Glaisher's Factors: 



Reading 
of Dry-bulb 
Therm. 


Factor. 


Reading 
ofDry-bulb 
Therm. 


Factor. 


Reading 
of Dry -bulb 
Therm. 


Factor. 


Reading 
of Dry -bulb 
Therm. 


Factor. 


o 









o 









10 


8-78 


33 


3-01 


56 


1-94 


79 


1-69 


11 


8-78 


34 


2-77 


57 


1-92 


80 


1-68 


12 


8-78 


35 


2-60 


58 


1-90 


81 


1-68 


13 


8-77 


36 


2-50 


59 


1-89 


82 


1-67 


14 


8-76 


37 


2-42 


60 


1-88 


83 


1-67 


15 


8-75 


38 


2-36 


61 


1-87 


84 


1-66 - 


16 


8-70 


39 


2-32 


62 


1-86 


85 


1-65 


17 


8-62 


40 


2-29 


63 


1-85 


86 


1-65 


18 


8-50 


41 


2-26 


64 


1-83 


87 


1-64 


19 


8-34 


42 


2-23 


65 


1-82 


88 


1-64 


20 


8-14 


43 


2-20 


66 


1-81 


89 


1-63 


21 


7-88 


44 


2-18 


67 


1-80 


90 


1-63 


22 


7-60 


45 


2-16 


68 


1-79 


91 


1-62 


23 


7-28 


46 


2-14 


69 


1-78 


92 


1-62 


24 


6-92 


47 


2-12 


70 


1-77 


93 


1-60 


25 


6-53 


48 


2-10 


71 


1-76 


94 


1-60 


26 


6-08 


49 


2-08 


72 


1-75 


95 


1-59 


27 


5-61 


50 


2-06 


73 


1-74 


96 


1-59 


28 


5-12 


51 


2-04 


74 


1-73 


97 


1-59 


29 


4-63 


52 


2-02 


75 


1-72 


98 


1-58 


30 


4-15 


53 


2-00 


76 


1-71 


99 


1-58 


31 


3-70 


54 


1-98 


77 


1-70 


100 


1-57 


32 


3-32 


55 


1-96 


78 


1-69 







The dew-point being obtained, the amount of vapour in a cubic foot of air 
is at once seen by looking at the table before given. From this formula Mr 
Glaisher's tables have been calculated. 

(&.) Apjohn's Formula. From a most philosophical and exhaustive analysis 
of th: conditions of this complicated problem, Dr Apjohn has derived his 
celebrated formula which is now in general use. Reduced to its most simple 
expression, it is thus worked : A table of the elastic tension of vapour, in 
inches of mercury at different temperatures, must be used. From this table 
take out the elastic tension of the temperature of the wet thermometer, and 
call it /. Let d be the difference of the two thermometers, and h the observed 
height of the barometer. Apjohn's formula then enables us to calculate the 
elastic tension of the dew-point, which we will call F ; and this being known 
by looking in the table, we obtain, opposite this elastic tension, the dew-point 
temperature. 

If the temperature be above 32 the formula is 

F=f-Ax A- 

88 30 ' 

If below 32 the formula is 



HUMIDITY OF THE AIK. 409 

Or the formula may be thus expressed 



The dew-point being known, the weight of a cubic foot of vapour, and the 
amount of elastic tension, expressed in inches of mercury (if it is wished to 
learn this), are taken from tables ; the relative humidity is got by calculation. 

The relative humidity is merely a convenient term to express comparative 
dryness or moisture. Complete saturation being assumed to be 100, any 
degree of dryness may be expressed as a percentage of this, and is obtained at 
once by dividing the weight of vapour actually determined by the weight of 
vapour which would have been present had the air been saturated. 

In order to save trouble, all these points, and other matters of interest, 
such as the weight of a cubic foot of dry air, or of mixed dry and moist air, 
are given in Mr Glaisher's Hygrometrical Tables, which are now sent to the 
principal stations, and which all medical officers are advised to get. But in 
the absence of these, the tables given in this chapter, and Glaisher's factors, 
will enable the chief points to be determined ; also the following table, which 
is extracted from Mr Glaisher's larger tables, will be found useful. It gives 
the relative humidity, and if the weight of a cubic foot of vapour (in the table 
already given), at the temperature of the dry bulb, be multiplied by the rela- 
tive humidity, and then divided by 100, the actual weight of vapour in the air 
at the time of observation is obtained.* 

To read the table take the temperature of the dry bulb, and the difference 
between it and the wet bulb, and look in the table at the intersection of the 
two columns. 

The amount of watery vapour can also be told by a hair hygrometer. A 
modification of Saussure's hygrometer is still used in France. A human hair, 
freed from fat by digestion in liquor potassse or ether, is stretched between a 
fixed point and a small needle, which traverses a scale divided into 100 parts. 
As the hair elongates or dries, the needle moves and indicates the relative 
humidity. The scale is graduated by wetting the hair for complete saturation, 
and by placing it over sulphuric acid of known strength for different degrees 
of saturation. A very delicate instrument is thus obtained, which indicates 
even momentary changes in moisture. On comparison with the wet and dry 
bulb, I have found that it gives accordant results for three or four months ; 
it then loses its delicacy, and requires to be a little wound up. If compared 
with the dry and wet bulb, the hair hygrometer seems to be exact enough for 
experiments in ventilation, for which it is adapted from its rapidity of indi- 
cation. The amount of watery vapour in the air has a considerable effect on 
the temperature of a place. Hermann von Schlagmtweitt has pointed out 
that the differences between the temperature marked in the sun and shade by 
two maximum thermometers are chiefly dependent on the amount of humidity. 
The maxima of insolation (measured by the difference between the sun and 
shade thermometers) occur in those stations and on those days when humidity 
is greatest. Thus, at Calcutta, the relative humidity being 88 to 93, the inso- 
lation (or difference between the thermometers) is 50 Fahr. ; at Bellori, 
the relative humidity being 60 to 65, the insolation is 8 to '11. These 
results are explained by Tyndall's observations, which show that the trans- 
parent humidity will scarcely affect the sun's rays striking on the sun 

* Or, what is the same thing, multiply by the relative humidity, with a decimal point 
before it. 

f Proceedings of Royal Soc., vol. xiv. p. Ill, 1865. 



410 



DESCRIPTION OF METEOROLOGICAL INSTRUMENTS. 



TABLE of the Relative Humidity given by the difference between the 
Dry and Wet Bulb. 





DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE DRY AND WET BULB. 


Temperature 
of the 





1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


10 


11 


12 


13 


14 


15 


Dry Bulb. 




































RELATIVE HUMIDITY, SATURATION = 100. 


90 


100 


95 


90 


85 


81 


77 


73 


69 


65 


62 


59 


56 


53 


50 


47 


44 


89 


100 


95 


90 


85 


81 


77 


73 


69 


65 


61 


58 


55 


52 


49 


46 


43 


88 


100 


95 


90 


85 


81 


77 


73 


69 


65 


61 


58 


55 


52 


49 


46 


43 


87 


100 


95 


90 


85 


81 


77 


73 


69 


65 


61 


58 


55 


52 


49 


46 


43 


86 


100 


95 


90 


85 


80 


76 


72 


68 


64 


61 


58 


55 


52 


49 


46 


43 


85 


100 


95 


90 


85 


80 


76 


72 


68 


64 


61 


58 


55 


52 


49 


46 


43 


84 


100 


95 


90 


85 


80 


76 


72 


68 


64 


60 


57 


54 


51 


48 


45 


43 


83 


100 


95 


90 


85 


80 


76 


72 


68 


64 


60 


57 


54 


51 


48 


45 


42 


82 


100 


95 


90 


85 


80 


76 


72 


68 


64 


60 


57 


54 


51 


48 


45 


42 


81 


100 


95 


90 


85 


80 


76 


72 


68 


64 


60 


56 


53 


50 


47 


44 


41 


80 


100 


95 


90 


85 


80 


75 


71 


67 


63 


59 


56 


53 


50 


47 


44 


41 


79 


100 


95 


90 


85 


80 


75 


71 


67 


63 


59 


56 


53 


50 


47 


44 


41 


78 


100 


94 


89 


84 


79 


75 


71 


67 


63 


59 


56 


53 


50 


47 


44 


41 


77 


100 


94 


89 


84 


79 


75 


71 


67 


63 


59 


56 


53 


50 


47 


44 


41 


76 


100 


94 


89 


84 


79 


75 


71 


67 


63 


59 


55 


52 


49 


46 


43 


40 


75 


100 


94 


89 


84 


79 


74 


70 


66 


62 


58 


55 


52 


49 


46 


43 


40 


74 


100 


94 


89 


84 


79 


74 


70 


66 


62 


58 


55 


52 


48 


45 


43 


40 


73 


100 


94 


89 


84 


79 


74 


70 


66 


62 


58 


54 


51 


48 


45 


42 


40 


72 


100 


94 


89 


84 


79 


74 


69 


65 


61 


57 


54 


51 


48 


45 


42 


39 


71 


100 


94 


88 


83 


78 


73 


69 


65 


61 


57 


53 


50 


47 


44 


41 


38 


70 


100 


94 


88 


83 


78 


73 


69 


65 


61 


57 


53 


50 


47 


44 


41 


38 


69 


100 


94 


88 


83 


78 


73 


68 


64 


60 


56 


53 


50 


47 


44 


41 


38 


68 


100 


94 


88 


83 


78 


73 


68 


64 


60 


56 


52 


49 


46 


43 


40 


37 


67 


100 


94 


88 


83 


78 


73 


68 


64 


60 


56 


52 


49 


46 


43 


40 


37 


66 


100 


94 


88 


83 


78 


73 


68 


64 


60 


56 


52 


48 


45 


42 


40 


37 


65 


100 


94 


88 


83 


78 


73 


68 


63 


59 


55 


51 


48 


45 


42 


39 


36 


64 


100 


94 


88 


82 


77 


72 


67 


63 


59 


55 


51 


48 


45 


42 


39 


36 


63 


100 


94 


88 


82 


77 


72 


67 


63 


59 


55 


51 


47 


44 


41 


38 


35 


62 


100 


94 


88 


82 


77 


72 


67 


62 


58 


55 


50 


47 


44 


41 


38 


35 


61 


100 


94 


88 


82 


77 


72 


67 


62 


58 


54 


50 


47 


44 


41 


38 


35 


60 


100 


94 


88 


82 


76 


71 


66 


62 


58 


54 


50 


46 


43 


40 


37 


34 


59 


100 


94 


88 


82 


76 


71 


66 


61 


57 


53 


49 


46 


43 


40 


37 


34 


58 


100 


93 


87 


81 


76 


71 


66 


61 


57 


53 


49 


46 


43 


40 


37 


34 


57 


100 


93 


87 


81 


75 


70 


65 


61 


57 


53 


49 


45 


42 


39 


36 


33 


56 


100 


93 


87 


81 


75 


70 


65 


60 


56 


52 


48 


44 


41 


38 


35 


32 


55 


100 


93 


87 


81 


75 


70 


65 


60 


56 


52 


48 


44 


41 


38 


35 


32 


54 


100 


93 


86 


80 


74 


69 


64 


59 


55 


51 


47 


43 


40 


37 


34 


31 


53 


100 


93 


86 


80 


74 


69 


64 


59 


55 


51 


47 


43 


39 


36 


33 


30 


52 


100 


93 


86 


80 


74 


69 


64 


59 


54 


50 


46 


42 


39 


36 


33 


30 


51 


100 


93 


86 


80 


74 


68 


63 


58 


54 


50 


46 


42 


38 


35 


32 


29 


50 


100 


93 


86 


80 


74 


68 


63 


58 


53 


49 


45 


41 


37 


34 


31 


29 


49 


100 


93 


86 


79 


73 


67 


62 


57 


53 


49 


45 


41 


37 


34 


31 


28 


48 


100 


93 


86 


79 


73 


67 


62 


57 


52 


48 


44 


40 


36 


33 


30 




47 


100 


93 


86 


79 


73 


67 


61 


56 


51 


47 


43 


39 


36 


33 


30 




46 


100 


93 


86 


79 


73 


67 


61 


56 


51 


47 


43 


39 


35 


32 


29 




45 


100 


92 


85 


78 


72 


66 


60 


55 


50 


46 


42 


38 


34 


31 


28 




44 


100 


92 


84 


78 


71 


65 


59 


54 


49 


45 


41 


37 


34 


31 


28 




43 


100 


92 


84 


78 


71 


65 


59 


54 


49 


45 


41 


37 


34 


31 


28 




42 


100 


92 


84 


78 


71 


66 


60 


54 


49 


44 


40 


36 


43 


30 


27 




41 


100 


92 


84 


77 


70 


64 


58 


53 


48 


43 


39 


35 


31 


28 






40 


100 


92 


84 


77 


69 


63 


57 


51 


46 


42 


38 


34 


31 








39 


100 


92 


84 


77 


69 


63 


57 


52 


47 


42 


38 


34 










38 


100 


91 


83 


75 


68 


62 


56 


50 


45 


41 


37 












37 


100 


91 


83 


75 


68 


61 


55 


49 


44 


39 














36 


100 


91 


82 


74 


66 


59 


53 


47 


42 
















35 


100 


90 


80 


72 


























34 


100 


89 


79 


72 


























33 


100 


89 


78 


70 


























32 


100 


87 


75 












1 















BAROMETER, 



411 



thermometer, while it greatly obstructs the radiation of invisible heat from 
the thermometer; when the air is highly charged with moisture, the sun 
thermometer is constantly gaining heat from the sun's rays, while it loses little 
by radiation, or if it does lose by radiation, gains it again from the air. 

When watery vapour mixes with dry air, the volume of the latter is aug- 
mented; the weight of a cubic foot of dry air at 60 Fahr. is 536*28 grains, 
and that of a cubic foot of vapour at 60 is 5-77 grains ; the conjoint weights 
would be 542 '05 grains at 60, but, owing to the enlargement of the air, the 
actual weight of a cubic foot of saturated air at 60 is only 532*84. It will 
be useful to extract a table from Mr Glaisher's work, showing the weight of a 
cubic foot of saturated air. 

Weight of a Cubic Foot of Saturated Air under the pressure of 30 inches 

of Mercury. 



Temp. 
Fahr. 


Weight of a 
Cubic Foot 
of Air satu- 
rated with 
Vapour. 


Temp. 
Fahr. 


Weight of a 
Cubic Foot 
of Air satu- 
rated with 
Vapour. 


Temp. 
Fahr. 


Weight of a 
Cubic Foot 
of Air satu- 
rated with 
Vapour. 


Temp. 
Fahr. 


Weight of a 
Cubic Foot 
of Air satu- 
rated with 
Vapour. 





grs. 





grs. 





grs. 





grs. 





606-03 


26 


572-85 


51 


543-21 


76 


514-55 


1 


604-69 


27 


571-63 


52 


542-06 


77 


513-40 


2 


603-37 


28 


570-42 


53 


540-89 


78 


512-26 


3 


602-05 


29 


569-20 


54 


539-75 


79 


511-13 


4 


600-72 


30 


567-99 


55 


538-60 


80 


509-97 


5 


599-40 


31 


566-79 


56 


537-45 


81 


508-81 


6 


598-11 


32 


565-58 


57 


536-30 


82 


507-67 


7 


596-80 


33 


564-38 


58 


535-16 


83 


506-51 


8 


595-51 


34 


563-18 


59 


534-00 


84 


505-36 


9 


594-24 


35 


561-99 


60 


532-84 


85 


504-19 


10 


592-94 


36 


560-79 


61 


531-69 


86 


503-05 


11 


591-64 


37 


559-59 


62 


530-55 


87 


501-90 


12 


590-35 


38 


558-42 


63 


529-42 


88 


500-74 


13 


589-08 


39 


557-22 


64 


528:27 


89 


499-57 


14 


587-82 


40 


556-03 


65 


527-14 


90 


498-43 


15 


586-55 


41 


554-87 


66 


526-01 


91 


497-25 


16 


585-30 


42 


553-69 


67 


524-86 


92 


496-07 


17 


584-03 


43 


552-52 


68 


523-71 


93 


494-90 


18 


582-76 


44 


551-36 


69 


522-55 


94 


493-74 


19 


581-51 


45 


550-19 


70 


521-41 


95 


492-56 


20 


580-26 


46 


549-01 


71 


520-27 


96 


491-39 


21 


579-03 


47 


547-85 


72 


519-12 


97 


490-19 


22 


577-78 


48 


546-69 


73 


517-98 


98 


489-01 


23 


576-56 


49 


545-53 


74 


516-82 


99 


487-83 


24 


575-32 


50 


544-36 


75 


515-69 


100 


486-65 


25 


574-08 















SECTION III. 
BAROMETER. 

A good mercurial barometer is supplied to many army stations ; the scale 
is brass, graduated to 20ths or ^-tenths on the scale, and is read to 



412 DESCRIPTION OF METEOROLOGICAL INSTRUMENTS. 

by means of a vernier. There is a moveable bottom to the cistern, which is 
worked up and down by a screw, so as to keep the mercury in the cistern at 
the same level. Correction for capacity is thus avoided. 

To fix the Barometer. Choose a place with a good light, yet protected 
from direct sunlight and rain ; fix the frame sent with the barometer very 
carefully with a plumb-line, so as to have it exactly perpendicular ; then hang 
the barometer on the hook, and adjust it gently by means of the three screws 
at the bottom, so that it hangs truly in the centre. Test this by the plumb- 
line (a 4-oz. weight tied to a string will do), and then unscrew the bottom of 
the cistern till the ivory point is seen. 

Before fixing the barometer the bottom should be unscrewed till the mer- 
cury is two or three inches from the top ; the barometer should be suddenly 
inclined, so as to let the mercury fall against the top ; if there is no air it will 
do this with a dull thud ; if there be air there is no thud ; in that case turn 
the barometer upside down, and tap the side forcibly till you see the globule 
of air passing up the tube through the mercury into the cistern. Do not be 
afraid of doing this ; if the screw at the bottom be not too far unscrewed 
there is no danger of any damage to the instrument. 

Reading of Barometer. Read the attached thermometer first ; then adjust 
the cistern, so that the ivory point, perceptible through the glass wall of the 
cistern, seems just to touch the point of the image in the mercury. Then 
adjust the vernier, so as to cut off the light from the top of the mercury. 
Then read the scale with the bottom of the vernier. 

I have found that a little difficulty is experienced in understanding the 
vernier by those who are not accustomed to such instruments. It will be, 
probably, comprehended from a little description, read with the instrument 
before us. On the scale of the barometer itself, it will be seen that the 
smallest divisions correspond to half-tenths ; that is, to T |o-ths of an inch 
( = -05). The height of the mercury can be read so far on the scale itself. 
The vernier is intended to enable us to read the amount of space the top of 
the mercury is above or below one of these half-tenth lines. It will be ob- 
served that the vernier is divided into twenty-five lines ; but on adjusting it, 
so that its lower line corresponds with a line indicating an inch, it will be seen 
that its twenty-five divisions only equal twenty -four half-tenth divisions on 
the scale. The result is, that each division on the vernier is ^g-th less than a 
half-tenth division on the scale. One ^th of a half-tenth is y^^ths of an 
inch (0-5 -f- 25 = '002 inch). 

This being understood, adjust the vernier so that its lowest line accurately 
corresponds to any line on the scale. It will then be seen that its lowest 
line but one is a little distance below (in fact, '002 inch) the next line on the 
fixed scale. Eaise now the vernier, so that its second line shall correspond to 
the line on the scale to which it was a little below ; and of course the bottom 
of the vernier must be raised -002 inch above the line it first corresponded 
with. If the next line, the third on the vernier, be made to correspond 
with the line on the scale just above it, the bottom of the scale must be 
raised double this ('004 inch) above the line it was first level with ; if the next 
line on the vender be made to correspond with a line on the scale, the scale 
is raised -006, and so on. Each division on the vernier equals '002 inch, 
and each five divisions equals T oth> or '01 inch. 

The barometer is read thus. When the top of the mercury is between the 
half-tenth lines, and the vernier is adjusted to the top of the mercury, see 
what line on the vernier above corresponds exactly to a line on the scale. Then 
read the number on the vernier, counting from the bottom ; multiply it by 
002, and the result is the number of hundreds or thousands of an inch the 



BAROMETER. 413 

top of the mercury is above the half-tenth line next below it.* Add this 
number to that already got by direct reading of the fixed scale, and the result 
is the height of the mercury in inches and decimals of an inch. 

Corrections for the Barometer. The barometer supplied to military stations 
requires no correction for capacity. There are two constant corrections for 
all barometers, viz., capillarity and index error. The first depends on the 
size of the bore, and whether the mercury has been boiled in the tube or not. 

1 TV To be added for capillarity, if 

the mercury has been boiled. 

0-1 inch, .... '070 inches. 

0-2 . . . . -029 

0-3 . . . . -014 

0-4 . . . . -007 

0-5 . . . . -003 

0-6 . . . . -002 

The error for capillarity is notified by the maker. Index error is determined 
by comparison with a standard barometer. It is indicated by the maker, and 
is constant for the same barometer. The index and capillarity errors are put 
together. The capillarity error is always additive ; the index error may be 
subtractive or additive ; the two together form a constant quantity. 

Correction for Temperature. The barometer is always registered as if the 
temperature of the mercury were 32 Fahr. If the temperature of the mer- 
cury be above this, the metal expands, and reads higher than it would do at 
32. The amount of expansion of mercury is "0001001 of its bulk for each 
degree ; but the linear expansion of the brass scale must be also considered. 

Schumacher's formula is used for the correction viz., 

li observed height of barometer in inches. 
t temperature of attached thermometer (Fahr.) 
m = expansion of mercury per degree viz. -0001001. 
I = linear expansion of scale viz. '0000104344; normal temperature 
being 62. 



1 +ra (*-32). 

To facilitate the correction for temperature, tables are given in Sir H. 
James's work, which is distributed to medical officers. The shorter table on 
page 414 may be useful. 

Correction for Sea-Level. Medical officers do not require to make this cor- 
rection, as what is wanted is to know the actual pressure of the air on the 
body. As the mercury falls about joV^th (-001 inch)t for every foot of 
ascent, this amount multiplied by the number of feet must be added to the 
height, if the place be above sea-level. The temperature of the air has, how- 
ever, also to be taken into account if great accuracy is required. 

When all these corrections have been made, the exact height of the mercury 
represents the conjoint weights of the oxygen, nitrogen, carbonic acid, and 
watery vapour of the atmosphere. It is difficult to separate these several 
weights, and the late observations, which show that the humidity existing at 
any place is merely local, and that vapour is most unequally diffused through 

* Instead of multiplying the number on the vernier by -002, a little practice will enable the 
calculation to be made at once. On the vernier will be seen the figures 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 ; 
corresponding to the 5th, 10th, 15th, 20th, and 25th lines, and indicating -01, -02, -03, -04, or 
05 inch. Each line between these numbered lines equals '002 inch. 

t The exact amount is a little below this, but varies with altitude ; at sea-level the amount 
is -000886 for every foot of ascent. See measurement of heights by barometer. 



414 



DESCRIPTION OF METEOROLOGICAL INSTRUMENTS. 



TABLE for Reduction of Barometer to Freezing Point. The number opposite 
the temperature of the attached thermometer is to be deducted. 



Temp, of 
attached 
Therm. 


Corrections for the Barometer at 


27 inches. 


28 inches. 


29 inches. 


30 inches. 


Fahr. degs. 


inch. 


inch. 


inch. 


inch. 


32 


0086 


0088 


0091 


0094 


34 


0134 


0138 


0143 


0148 


36 


0183 


0188 


0194 


0201 


38 


0231 


0238 


0246 


0255 


40 


0279 


0288 


0298 


0309 


42 


0327 


0338 


0350 


0362 


44 


0375 


0388 


0402 


0416 


46 


0423 


0438 


0454 


0470 


48 


0471 


0488 


0506 


0523 


50 


0519 


0538 


0558 


0577 


52 


0568 


0588 


0609 


0630 


54 


0616 


0638 


0661 


0684 


56 


0664 


0688 


0713 


0738 


58 


0712 


0738 


0765 


0791 


60 


0760 


0788 


0817 


0845 


62 


0809 


.0838 


0868 


0898 


64 


0857 


0888 


0920 


0951 


66 


0906 


0938 


0971 


1005 


68 


0954 


0988 


1023 


1058 


70 


1000 


1037 


1075 


1112 


72 


1049 


1087 


1126 


1165 


74 


1097 


1137 


1178 


1218 


76 


1146 


1187 


1229 


1272 


78 


1194 


1237 


1281 


1325 


80 


1241 


1286 


1332 


1378 


82 


1289 


1336 


1384 


1432 


84 


1338 


1386 


1435 


1485 


86 


1385 


1435 


1486 


1538 


8^ 


1433 


1485 


1538 


1591 


90 


1482 


1535 


1589 


1644 



the air, render it quite uncertain what amount of the mercury is supported 
by the watery vapour. Yet that this has a considerable effect in altering the 
barometric height, particularly in the tropics, seems certain (Herschel). 

The height of the barometer at sea-level differs at different parts of the 
earth's surface ; being less at the equator (29*974) than on either side at 30 
]N~. and S. lat., and lessening again towards the poles, especially towards the 
south, from 63 to 74 S. lat., where the depression is upwards of an inch. It 
differs in different places also according to their geographical position and 
their height above sea-level. Like the thermometer, it is subjected to diurnal 
and annual periodic changes and to non-periodic undulations. 

In the tropics the diurnal changes are very steady ; there are two maxima 
and two minima : the first maximum is about 9 A.M. ; the first minimum about 
3 to 4 P.M. ; the second maximum at 10 P.M. ; the second minimum at 4 A.M. 
These changes are, perhaps, chiefly dependent on the watery vapour (Herschel). 
In this country the diurnal range is less ; it falls from midnight to about 



BAROMETER. 



415 



4 or 6 ; rises till 11, and falls again till 4 or 6 ; then rises till midnight. The 
undulations depend on the constantly shifting currents of air, rendering the 
total amount of air over a place heavier or lighter. The wind tends to pass 
towards the locality of least barometric pressure. In this country the baro- 
meter falls with the south-west winds ; rises with the north and east ; the 
former are moist and warm, the latter dry and cold winds. 

The isobarometric lines are the lines connecting places with the same mean 
annual height of barometer. 

Measurement of Heights. The barometer falls when heights are ascended, 
as a certain weight of air is left below it. The diminution is not uniform, for 
the higher the ascent the less weighty the air, and a greater and greater height 
must be ascended to depress the barometer one inch. This is illustrated by 
the following table : * 

To lower from 31 inches to 30= 857 feet must be ascended. 



30 
29 
28 
27 
26 
25 
24 
23 
22 
21 
20 
19 



29- 

28 = 

27 = 
26 = 



918 
951 

986 

25 = 1025 

24=1068 

23=1113 

22=1161 

21 = 1216 

20=1276 

19 = 1341 

18 = 1413 

The measurements of heights in this way is of great use to medical officers : 
the aneroid barometer can be used as high as 5000 feet, and a delicate instru- 
ment will measure as little as 4 feet. 

A great number of plans are in use for calculating heights. It can be 
done readily by logarithms, but then medical officers may not possess a table 
of logarithms. 

The simplest rule of all is one derived from Laplace's formula. Mr Ellist 
has lately stated this formula as follows : Multiply the difference of the 
barometric readings by 52400, and divide by the sum of the barometric 
readings. If the result be 1000, 2000, 3000, 4000, or 5000, add 0, 0, 2, 6, 14, 
respectively. Subtract 2| times the difference of the temperatures of the 
mercury. Multiply the remainder by a number obtained by adding 836 to 
the sum of the temperatures of the air, and dividing by 900. A correction 
must also be made for latitude, which can be done by Table III. p. 418. 

Tables such as those given by Delcros and Oltmanns are very convenient 
for estimating heights by the barometer. A table less long than these, but 
based on the same principle, has been given by JSTegretti and Zambra in their 
useful work,} and as it is the easiest formula I know, I have copied it. 

A good mercurial barometer, with an attached thermometer, or an aneroid 
compensated for temperature is required. A thermometer to ascertain the 
temperature of the air is also required. Two barometers and two thermo- 

* The height can be taken readily from this table, by calculating the number of feet which 
must have been ascended to cause the observed fall, and then making a correction for tempera- 
ture, by multiplying the number obtained from the table, which may be called A, by the formula 
(t is the temperature of the lower, and if of the upper station). 



f Proceedings of Royal Society, 1865, No. 75, p. 283. 

} A Treatise on Meteorological Instruments, by Negretti and Zambra, 1864. 



416 



DESCRIPTION OF METEOROLOGICAL INSTRUMENTS. 



meters, which can be observed at the same moment at the upper and lower 
stations, are desirable. 

Supposing, however, there is but one barometer, take the height at the lower 
station, and correct for temperature to 32, according to the table given at 
page 414. Take the temperature of the air. Ascend as rapidly as possible 
to the upper station, and take the height of the barometer (correcting it to 
32) and the temperature of the air ; then use the following tables, taken from 
Negretti and Zambra's work. If the height is less than 300 feet, Tables II., 
III., and IV. need not be used. 

"Table I. is calculated from the formula, height in feet = 60,200 (log. 
29-922 log. B] + 925 ; where 29 '922 is the mean atmospheric pressure at 
32 Fahr., and the mean sea-level in latitude 45; and B is any other baro- 
metric pressure ; the 925 being added to avoid minus signs in the table. 

" Table II. contains the correction necessary for the mean temperature of 
the stratum of air between the stations of observation ; and is computed from 
Eegnault's co-efficient for the expansion of air, which is -002036 of its volume 
at 32 for each degree above that temperature. 

" Table III. is the correction due to the difference of gravitation in any 
other latitude, and is found from the formula, x 1 + '00265 cos. 2 lat. 

" Table IV. is to correct for the diminution of gravity in ascending from 
the sea-level. 

" To use these tables : The barometer readings at the upper and lower 
stations having been corrected and reduced to temperature 32 Fahr., take 
out from Table I. the numbers opposite the corrected readings of the two 
barometers, and subtract the lower from the upper. Multiply this difference 
successively by the factors found in Tables II. and III. The factor from 
Table III. may be neglected unless precision is desired. Finally, add the 
correction taken from Table IV." (Negretti and Zambra.) 

In the table the barometer is only read to lOths, but it should be read to 
lOOths (-01) and lOOOths ('001), and the number of feet corresponding to 
these amounts calculated from the table, which is easy enough. 

TABLE I. Approximate Height due to Barometric Pressure. 



Inches of 
Barometer. 


Feet. 


Inches of 
Barometer. 


Feet. 


Inches of 
Barometer. 


Feet. 


31-0 





29-3 


,474 


27-6 


3,037 


30-9 


84 


2 


,563 


5 


3,132 


8 


169 


1 


,653 


4 


3,227 


7 


254 


29-0 


,743 


3 


3,323 


6 


339 


28-9 


,833 


2 


3,419 


5 


425 


8 


,924 


1 


3,515 


4 


511 


7 


2,015 


27-0 


3,612 


3 


597 


6 


2,106 


26-9 


3,709 


2 


683 


5 


2,198 


8 


3,806 


1 


770 


4 


2,290 


7 


3,904 


30-0 


857 


3 


2,382 


6 


4,002 


29-9 


944 


2 


2,475 


5 


4,100 


-8 


1,032 


1 


2,568 


4 


4,199 


7 


1,120 


28-0 


2,661 


3 


4,298 


6 


1,208 


27-9 


2,754 


2 


4,398 


5 


1,296 


8 


2,848 


1 


4,498 


4 


1,385 


7 


2,942 


26-0 


4,598 



BAROMETER. 



417 



TABLE I. Approximate Height due to Barometric Pressure continued. 



Inches of 
Barometer. 


Feet. 


Inches of 
Barometer. 


Feet. 


Inches of 
Barometer. 


Feet. 


25-9 


4,699 


21-1 


10,058 


16-3 


16,806 


8 


4,800 


21-0 


10,182 


2 


16,967 


7 


4,902 


20-9 


10,307 


1 


17,129 


6 


5,004 


8 


10,432 


16-0 


17,292 


5 


5,106 


7 


10,558 


15-9 


17,456 


4 


5,209 


6 


10,684 


8 


17,621 


3 


5,312 


5 


10,812 


7 


17,787 


2 


5,415 


4 


10,940 


6 


17,954 


1 


5,519 


3 


11,069 


5 


18,122 


25-0 


5,623 


2 


11,198 


4 


18,291 


24-9 


5,728 


1 


11,328 


3 


18,461 


8 


5,833 


20-0 


11,458 


2 


18,632 


7 


5,939 


19-9 


11,589 


1 


18,805 


6 


6,045 


8 


11,721 


15-0 


18,979 


5 


6,152 


7 


11,853 


14-9 


19,154 


4 


6,259 


6 


11,986 


8 


19,330 


3 


6,366 


5 


12,120 


7 


19,507 


2 


6,474 


4 


12,254 


6 


19,685 


1 


6,582 


3 


12,389 


5 


19,865 


24-0 


6,691 


2 


12,525 


4 


20,046 


23-9 


6,800 


1 


12,662 


3 


20,228 


8 


6,910 


19-0 


12,799 


2 


20,412 


7 


7,020 


18-9 


12,937 


1 


20,597 


6 


7,131 


8 


13,076 


14-0 


20,783 


5 


7,242 


7 


13,215 


13-9 


20,970 


4 


7,353 


6 


13,355 


8 


21,159 


3 


7,465 


5 


13,496 


7 


21,349 


2 


7,577 


4 


13,638 


6 


21,541 


1 


7,690 


3 


13,780 


5 


21,734 


23-0 


7,803 


2 


13,923 


4 


21,928 


22-9 


7,917 


1 


14,067 


3 


22,124 


8 


8,032 


18-0 


14,212 


2 


22,321 


7 


8,147 


17-9 


14,358 


1 


22,520 


6 


8,262 


8 


14,505 


13-0 


22,720 


5 


8,378 


7 


14,652 


12-9 


22,922 


4 


8,495 


6 


14,800 


8 


23,126 


3 


8,612 


5 


14,949 


7 


23,231 


2 


8,729 


4 


15,099 


6 


23,538 


1 


8,847 


3 


15,250 


5 


23,746 


22-0 


8,966 


- 2 


15,402 


4 


23,956 


21-9 


9,085 , 


1 


15,554 


3 


24,168 


8 


9,205 


17-0 


15,707 


2 


24,381 


7 


9,325 


16-9 


15,861 


1 


24,596 


6 


9,446 


8 


16,016 


12-0 


24,813 


5 


9,567 


7 


16,172 


11-9 


25,032 


4 


9,689 


6 


16,329 


8 


25,253 


3 


9,811 


5 


16,487 


7 


25,476 


2 


9,934 


4 


16,646 


6 


25,700 



2 D 



418 



DESCRIPTION OF METEOROLOGICAL INSTRUMENTS. 



TABLE II. Correction due to Mean Temperature of the Air ; the Tem- 
perature of the Upper and Lower Stations being added and divided 
by 2. 



Mean Temp. 


Factor. 


Mean Temp. 


Factor. 


Mean Temp. 


Factor. 


10 


0-955 


35 


1-006 


60 


1-057 


11 


957 


36 


1-008 


61 


1-059 


12 


959 


37 


1-010 


62 


1-061 


13 


961 


38 


1-012 


63 


1-063 


14 


963 


39 


1-014 


64 


1-065 


15 


965 


40 


1-016 


65 


1-067 


16 


967 


41 


1-018 


66 


1-069 


17 


969 


42 


1-020 


67 


1-071 


18 


971 


43 


1-022 


68 


1-073 


19 


974 


44 


1-024 


69 


1-075 


20 


976 


45 


1-026 


70 


1-077 


21 


978 


46 


1-029 


71 


1-079 


22 


980 


47 


1-031 


72 


1-081 


23 


982 


48 


1-033 


73 


1-083 


24 


984 


49 


1-035 


74 


1-086 


25 


986 


50 


1-037 


75 


1-088 


26 


988 


51 


1-039 


76 


1-090 


27 


990 


52 


1-041 


77 


1-092 


28 


992 


53 


1-043 


78 


1-094 


29 


994 


54 


1-045 


79 


1-096 


30 


996 


55 


1-047 


80 


1-098 


31 


0-998 


56 


1-049 


81 


1-100 


32 


1-000 


57 


1-051 


82 


1-102 


33 


1-002 


58 


1-053 


83 


1-104 


34 


1-004 


59 


1-055 


84 


1-106 






TABLE III. Correction due to Difference of Gravitation in different 

Latitudes. 



Latitude. 


Factor. 


Latitude. 


Factor. 


Latitude. 


Factor. 


80 


0-99751 


50 


0-99954 


20 


1-00203 


75 


0-99770 


45 


1-00000 


15 


1-00230 


70 


0-99797 


40 


1-00046 


10 


1-00249 


65 


0-99830 


35 


1-00090 


5 


1-00261 


60 


0-99868 


30 


1-00132 





1-00265 


55 


0-99910 


25 


1-00170 







MEASUREMENT OF HEIGHTS. 



419 



TABLE IV. 



Height in 
Thousand Feet. 


Correction 
Additive. 


Height in 
Thousand Feet. 


Correction 
Additive. 


1 


3 


14 


44 


2 


5 


15 


48 


3 


8 


16 


52 


4 


11 


17 


56 


5 


14 


18 


60 


6 


17 


19 


65 


7 


20 


20 


69 


8 


23 


21 


74 


9 


26 


22 


78 


10 


30 


23 


83 


11 


33 


24 


88 


12 


37 


25 


93 


13 


41 


26 


98 



Example. On 21st October 1852, when Mr Welsh ascended in a balloon, 
at 3h. 30m. P.M., the barometer, corrected and reduced, was 18 '85, the air 
temperature 27, while at Greenwich, 159 feet above the sea, the barometer 
at the same time was 29 '97 inches, air temperature 49, the balloon not being 
more than five miles S.W. from over Greenwich ; required its elevation. 



Barometer in Balloon 
at Greenwich, 



18-85, Table I. 
29-97, 



Mean Temperature, 38, Table II. Factor, 
Latitude 51J, Factor from Table III., 
Correction from Table IV., '. 

Elevation of Greenwich, 

Balloon, .... 



Feet. 

13007 

883 

12124 
1-012 

12269- 
99941 

12262 
38 

12300 
159 

12459 



Weight of the Air. The barometer expresses the weight of the air in inches 
of mercury. The actual weight can be determined, if the reading of the 
barometer, temperature, and humidity are all known. 

The weight of a cubic foot of dry air at 32 Fahr., and normal pressure, is 
566-85 grains. For any other temperature, the weight can be calculated. 
Multiply the co-efficient of the expansion of air (viz., -0020361 for 1 Fahr.) 
by the number of degrees above 32, and divide 5 66 -85 by the number so 
obtained. The result is the weight of the dry air at the given temperature. 
The following Table is copied from Glaisher : 

2 D 2 



420 



DESCRIPTION OF METEOROLOGICAL INSTRUMENTS. 



TABLE Showing the Weight in Grains of a Cubic Foot of Dry Air, under the 
pressure of 30 inches of Mercury , for every degree from to 100. 



Temp. 
Fahr. 


Weight of 
a Cubic Foot 
of Dry Air. 


Temp. 
Fahr. 


Weight of 
a Cubic Foot 
of Dry Air. 


Temp. 
Fahr. 


Weight of 
a Cubic Foot 
of Dry Air. 


Temp. 
Fahr. 


Weight of 
a Cubic Foot 
of Dry Air. 


o 


grs. 





grs. 





grs. 


o 


grs. 





606-37 


26 


573-87 


51 


545-74 


76 


520-25 


1 


605-05 


27 


572-69 


52 


544-67 


77 


519-28 


2 


603-74 


28 


571-51 


53 


543-61 


78 


518-31 


3 


602-43 


29 


570-34 


54 


542-55 


79 


517-35 


4 


601-13 


30 


569-17 


55 


541-50 


80 


516-39 


5 


599-83 


31 


568-01 


56 


540-45 


81 


515-43 


6 


598-54 


32 


566-85 


57 


539-40 


82 


514-48 


7 


597-26 


33 


565-70 


58 


538-36 


83 


513-53 


8 


595-98 


34 


564-56 


59 


537-32 


84 


512-59 


9 


594-71 


35 


563-42 


60 


536-28 


85 


511-65 


10 


593-44 


36 


562-28 


61 


535-25 


86 


510-71 


11 


592-18 


37 


561-15 


62 


534-22 


87 


509-77 


12 


590-92 


38 


560-02 


63 


533-20 


88 


508-84 


13 


589-67 


39 


558-89 


64 


532-18 


89 


507-91 


14 


588-42 


40 


557-77 


65 


531-17 


90 


506-99 


15 


587-18 


41 


556-66 


66 


530-16 


91 


506-07 


16 


585-95 


42 


555-55 


67 


529-15 


92 


505-15 


17 


584-72 


43 


554-44 


68 


528-14 


93 


504-23 


18 


583-49 


44 


553-34 


69 


527-14 


94 


503-32 


19 


582-27 


45 


552-24 


70 


526-15 


95 


502-41 


20 


581-05 


46 


551-15 


71 


525-16 


96 


501-50 


21 


579-84 


47 


550-06 


72 


524-17 


97 


500-60 


22 


578-64 


48 


548-97 


73 


523-18 


98 


499-70 


23 


577-44 


49 


547-89 


74 


522-20 


99 


498-81 


24 


576-24 


50 


546-82 


75 


521-22 


100 


497-93 


25 


575-05 















SECTION IV. 
RAIN. 

Eain is estimated in inches ; that is, the fall of an inch of rain implies that 
on any given area, say a square inch of surface, rain has fallen equal to one 
inch in depth. The amount of rain is determined "by a rain-gauge. Two 
gauges are supplied for military stations ; one placed on the ground, one 20 
feet above it ; in all parts of the world the latter indicates less rain than the 
lower placed gauge. 

Several kinds of gauges are in use. The one used by the Army Medical 
Department is a round tin box with a rim or groove at the top ; a round top 
with a funnel inside fits on to this groove, which, when filled with water, forms 
a water valve. The opening above is circular (the circle being made very 
carefully, and a rim being carried round it to prevent the rain-drops from 
being whirled by wind out of the mouth), and descends funnel-shaped, the 



RAIN. 421 

small end of the funnel being turned up to prevent evaporation.. The best 
size for the open top, or in other words, the area of the receiving surface, is 
about 100 square inches* The lower part of the box is sunk in the ground 
nearly to the groove ; the upper part is then put in, and a glass vessel is 
placed below the funnel to receive the water. At stated times (usually at 9 
A.M. daily) the top is taken off, the glass vessel taken out, and the water 
weighed or measured. The latter is easiest, and is done in a glass vessel 
graduated to an inch and hundreths of an inch, and which is sent with the 
gauge. Each gauge has its own measure. 

If this glass is broken it can be replaced by the following rule, or a rain- 
gauge can be made by any one very easily. It need not be round, though 
this is now thought the best form, but may be a square box of metal or wood, 
and may be of any size near a square foot ; the small gauges are not to be 
trusted, and the large are unwieldy. 

Determine the area, in square inches, of the receiving surface, or top of the 
gauge, by careful measurement (see Measurement of Kooms, chapter on AIR). 
This area, if covered with water to the height of one inch, would give us a 
corresponding amount of cubic inches. This number of cubic inches is the 
measure of that gauge for one inch, because when the rain equals that quan- 
tity it shows that one inch of rain has fallen over the whole surface. 

Let us say the area of the receiving surface is 100 square inches. Take 100 
cubic inches of water and put it into a glass, put a mark at the height of the 
fluid, and divide the glass below it into 100 equal parts. If the rainfall 
comes up to the mark, one inch of rain has fallen on each square inch of sur- 
face ; if it only comes up to a mark below, some amount less than an inch 
(which is so expressed in T Vths and T-i-g-ths) has fallen. 

To get the requisite number of cubic inches of water we can weigh or 
measure. A cubic inch of water at 62 weighs 252*458 grains, consequently 
100 cubic inches will be (252458 x 100) = 25245-8 grains, or 57'7 ounces 
avoir. But an easier way still is to measure the water, an ounce avoir, is 
equal to T733 c.ubic inches, therefore divide 100 by 1 '7 33, and we obtain the 
number of ounces avoir, which corresponds to 100 cubic inches. 

Usually a one-inch measure is so large a glass, that half an inch is considered 
more convenient. 

From the table of the weight of vapour already given, it will be seen that 
the amount of vapour which can be rendered insensible, increases with the 
temperature, but not regularly ; more, comparatively, is taken up by the high 
temperatures; thus, at 40, 2*86 grains are supported; at 50, 4*10 grains, or 
1 '24 grains more ; at 60, 5 '77 grains, or 1 '67 grains more than at 50. There- 
fore, if two currents of air of unequal temperatures, but equally saturated with 
moisture, meet in equal volume, the temperature will be the mean of the two, 
but the amount of vapour which will be kept invisible is less than the mean, 
and some vapour therefore necessarily falls as fog or rain. Thus one saturated 
current being at 40 and the other at 60, the resultant temperature will be 
50, but the amount of invisible vapour will not be the mean, viz., 4*315, but 
4*1 ; an amount equal to -215 will therefore be deposited. 

Eain is therefore owing to the cooling of a saturated air, and rain is heaviest 
under the following conditions, when the temperature being high, and the 
amount of .vapour large, the hot and moist air soon encounters a cold air. 
These conditions are chiefly met with in the tropics, when the hot air, 
saturated with vapour, impinges on a chain of lofty hills over which the air 
is cold. The fall then may be 130 to 160 inches, as on the Malabar coast of 
India, or 180 to 220 in Southern Burmah, or 600 at Cherrapoonjee, in the 
Khasyah Hills. Even in our own country the hot air from the Gulf Stream 



422 DESCRIPTION OF METEOROLOGICAL INSTRUMENTS. 

impinging on the Cumberland Hills causes, in some districts, a fall of 80, 
100, and even 130 inches. 

The rainfall in different places is remarkably irregular from year to year ; 
thus at Bombay the mean being 76, in 1822 no less than 112 inches, while 
in 1824 only 34 inches feU. 

The amount of rain in the different foreign stations is given under the re- 
spective headings. 

SECTION Y. 
EVAPORATION. 

The amount of evaporation from a given moist surface is a problem of great 
interest, but it is not easy to determine it experimentally, and no instrument 
is issued by the Army Medical Department. A shallow vessel of known area, 
protected round the rim by wire to prevent birds from drinking, is filled with 
a known quantity of water, and then, weekly or monthly, the diminution of 
the water is determined, the amount of addition by rain being at the same 
time determined by a rain-gauge. This plan takes no notice of dew, and is 
not regarded as satisfactory. 

Another plan is placing water under a cover, which may protect it from rain 
and dew and yet permit evaporation, and weighing the loss daily. It is diffi- 
cult, however, to insure that the evaporation shall be equal to that under the 
free heavens. 

A third plan is calculating the rate of evaporation from the depression of 
the wet-bulb thermometer, by deducting the elastic force of vapour at the 
dew-point temperature from the elastic force at the air temperature, and taking 
the difference as expressing the evaporation. This difference expresses the 
force of escape of vapour from the moist surface. 

Instruments termed Atmometers have been used for this purpose ; the first 
was invented by Leslie. A ball of porous earthenware was fixed to a glass 
tube, with divisions, each corresponding to an amount of water which would 
cover the surface of the ball with a film equal to the thickness of T oVo th part 
of an inch. The evaporation from the surface of the ball was then read off. 
Dr Babington has also invented an ingenious " Atmidometer."* 

The amount of evaporation is influenced by temperature, wind, humidity of 
the an, rarefaction of the air, degree of exposure or shading, and by the nature 
of the moist surface ; it is greater from moist soil than from water. 

The amount of vapour annually rising from each square inch of water sur- 
face in this country has been estimated at from 20 to 24 inches ; in the 
tropical seas it has been estimated at from 80 to 130, or even more inches. 
In the Indian Ocean it has been estimated at as much as an inch in twenty- 
four hours, or 365 in the year, an almost incredible amount. No doubt, how- 
ever, the quantity is very great. 

It requires an effort of imagination to realise the immense distillation which 
goes on from the tropical seas. Take merely 60 inches as the annual distilla- 
tion, and reckon this in feet instead of inches, and then proceed to calculate 
the weight of the water rising annually from such a small space as the Bay of 
Bengal. The amount is almost incredible. 

This distillation of water serves many great purposes ; mixing with the air 
it is a vast motive power, for its specific gravity is very low ('6235, air being 1), 
and it causes an enlargement of the volume of air ; the moist air is therefore 

* See Negretti and Zarnbra's Treatise, p. 141, for details. 



WIND. 423 

much lighter, and ascends with great rapidity ; the distillation also causes an 
immense transference of heat from the tropics, where the evaporation renders 
latent a great amount of heat, to the extra-tropical region where this vapour 
falls as rain, and consequently parts with its heat. The evaporation also has 
been supposed to be a great cause of the ocean currents (Maury), which play 
so important a part in the distribution of winds, moisture, and warmth. 

For physicians the amount of evaporation is a very important point, not 
merely as influencing the moisture of the air abstractedly, but as aifecting the 
evaporation from the skin and lungs. The evaporating power of the air is 
inversely to its relative humidity in a still air ; it is of course influenced by 
winds and their temperature, and the vessels and the nerves of the skin are 
then affected, and evaporation may be accelerated by the physical conditions 
of motion and warmth, or may be lessened by the physiological action of the 
wind. The problem is thus a complicated one. (See CLIMATE.) 



SECTION VI. 
WIND. 

Direction. For determining the direction of the wind a vane is necessary. 
It should be placed in such a position as to be able to feel the influence of the 
wind on all sides, and not be subjected to eddies by the vicinity of buildings, 
trees, or hills. The points must be fixed by the compass ; the magnetic decli- 
nation being taken into account; the declination of the place must be obtained 
from the nearest Observatory; in this country it is now about 21 to the west- 
ward of true north. The direction of the wind is registered twice daily in the 
army returns, but any unusual shifting should receive a special note. The 
course of the wind is not always parallel with the earth ; it sometimes blows 
slightly downwards ; contrivances have been employed to measure this, but 
it does not seem important. 

Various plans are resorted to for giving a complete summary of the winds, 
but these are not required from the medical officer. 

Velocity. A small Eobinson's anemometer is now supplied to each station ; 
it is read every twenty-four hours, and marks the horizontal movement in the 
preceding twenty-four hours. 

This anemometer usually consists of four small cups,* fixed on horizontal 
axes of such a length (1-12 feet between two cups) that the centre of a cup, in 
revolving a circle, passes over T ^Vo^ n f a mile; or the distance between two 
cups is exactly one foot, so that the circle is 3*1416 feet. These cups revolve 
with a third of the wind's velocity ; 500 revolutions of the cups therefore in- 
dicate one mile. By an arrangement of wheels, the number of miles traversed 
by the cups in any given time is registered. 

This instrument should be made also to register the maximum velocity at 
any time. 

Osier's anemometer is a larger and very beautiful instrument. It registers 
at the same time on a piece of paper fitted on a drum, which turns with clock- 
work, direction, velocity, and pressure. 

Other anemometers, Lind's, Whewell's, &c., need not be described. 

The average velocity of wind in this country on the surface of the earth is 
from six to eight miles per hour ; its range is from zero to 60 or even 70 miles 

* The current of air is opposed one-fourth more by a concave surface than by a convex one 
of the same size. 



424 



DESCRIPTION OF METEOROLOGICAL INSTRUMENTS. 



per hour, but this last is very rare ; it is seldom more, even in heavy winds, 
than 35 to 45 miles per hour. In the hurricanes of the Indian and China 
seas it is said to reach 100 to 110 miles per hour. 

Force. The force of the wind is reckoned as equal to so many pounds or 
parts of a pound on a square foot of surface. Osier's anemometer registers the 
force as well as the velocity and direction, but Kobinson's (used in the army) 
only marks the velocity; the force must then be calculated. The rule for the 
calculation of the force from the velocity is as follows : 

Ascertain the velocity for one hour by observing the velocity for a minute, 
and multiplying by 60 ; then square the hour velocity and multiply by '005. 
The result is the pressure in pounds or parts of a pound per square foot. 

V 2 x -005 - P. 



The subjoined table is taken from Sir Henry James's work, and will save 
the trouble of calculating : 



Pres- 
sure in 
Ibs per 
Square 
Foot. 


Velo- 
city in 
Miles 

Hour. 


Pres- 
sure in 
Ibs per 
Square 
Foot. 


Velo- 
city in 
Miles 

Hour. 


Pres- 
sure in 
Ibs per 
Square 
Foot. 


Velo- 
city in 
Miles 

Hour. 


Pres- 
sure in 
Ibs per 
Square 
Foot. 


Velo- 
city in 
Miles 
per 
Hour. 


Pres- 
sure in 
Ibs per 
Square 
Foot. 


Velo- 
city in 
Miles 
per 
Hour. 


oz. 




fts 




R>s 




Ks 




tt>S 




0-08 


1-000 


2-25 


21-213 


8-75 


41-833 


15-25 


55-226 


21-75 


65-954 


0-25 


1-767 


2-50 


22-360 


9-00 


42-426 


15-50 


55-677 


22-00 


66-332 


0-50 


2-500 


2-75 


23-452 


9-25 


43-011 


15-75 


56-124 


22-25 


66-708 


0-75 


3-061 


3-00 


24-494 


9-50 


43-588 


16-00 


56-568 


22-50 


67-082 


1-00 


3-535 


3-25 


25-495 


9-75 


44-158 


16-25 


57-008 


22-75 


67-453 


2-00 


5-000 


3-50 


26-457 


10-00 


44-721 


16-50 


57445 


23-00 


67-823 


3-00 


6-123 


3-75 


27-386 


10-25 


45-276 


16-75 


57-879 


23-25 


68-190 


4-00 


7-071 


4-00 


28-284 


10-50 


45-825 


17-00 


58-309 


23-50 


68-556 


5-00 


7-905 


4-25 


29-154 


10-75 


46-368 


17-25 


58-736 


23-75 


68-920 


6-00 


8-660 


4-50 


30-000 


11-00 


46-904 


17-50 


59-160 


24-00 


69-282 


7-00 


9-354 


4-75 


30-822 


11-25 


47-434 


17-75 


59-581 


24-25 


69-641 


8-00 


10-000 


5-00 


31-622 


11-50 


47-958 


18-00 


60-000 


24-50 


70-000 


9-uC 


10-606 


5-25 


32-403 


11-75 


48-476 


18-25 


60-415 


24-75 


70-356 


10-00 


11-180 


5-50 


33-166 


12-00 


48-989 


18-50 


60-827 


25-00 


70-710 


11-00 


11-726 


5-75 


33-911 


12-25 


49-497 


18-75 


61-237 


25-25 


71-063 


12-00 


12-247 


6-00 


34-641 


12-50 


50-000 


19-00 


61-644 


25-50 


71-414 


13-00 


12-747 


6-25 


35-355 


12-75 


50-497 


19-25 


62-048 


25-75 


71-763 


14-00 


13-228 


6-50 


36-055 


13-00 


50-990 


19-50 


62-449 


26-00 


72-111 


15-00 


13-693 


6-75 


36-742 


13-25 


51-478 


19-75 


62-849 


26-25 


72-456 






7-00 


37-416 


13-50 


51-961 


20-00 


63-245 


26-50 


72-801 


ibs 




7-25 


38-078 


13-75 


52-440 


20-25 


63-639 


26-75 


73-143 


1-00 


14-142 


7-50 


38-729 


14-00 


52-915 


20-50 


64-031 


27-00 


73-484 


1-25 


15-811 


7-75 


39-370 


14-25 


53-385 


20-75 


64-420 


27-25 


73-824 


1-50 


17-320 


8-00 


40-000 


14-50 


53-851 


21-00 


64-807 


27-50 


74-161 


1-75 


18-708 


8-25 


40-620 


14-75 


54-313 


21-25 


65-192 


27-75 


74-498 


2-00 


20-000 


8-50 


41-231 


15-00 


54-772 


21-50 


65-574 


28-00 


74-833 



* The velocity can be calculated from the pressure by taking the square root of 200 times the 
pressure, or 



WIND. 



425 



TABLE continued. 



Pres- 
sure in 
Bbsper 
Square 
Foot. 


Velo- 
city in 
Miles 
per 
Hour. 


Pres- 
sure in 
Ibs pei- 
Square 
Foot. 


Velo- 
city in 
Miles 
per 
Hour. 


Pres- 
sure in 
Ibs per 
Square 
Foot. 


Velo- 
city in 
Miles 
per 
Hour. 


Pres- 
sure in 
Ibs per 
Square 
Foot. 


Velo- 
city in 
Miles 
per 
Hour. 


Pres- 
sure in 
Ibs per 
Square 
Foot. 


Velo- 
city in 
Miles 
per 
Hour. 


Ibs 




R>s 




fts 




Ibs 




Ibs 




28-25 


75-166 


32-75 


80-932 


37-25 


86-313 


41-75 


91-378 


46-25 


96-176 


28-50 


75-498 


33-00 


81-240 


37-50 


86-602 


42-00 


91-651 


46-50 


96-436 


28-75 


75-828 


33-25 


81-547 


37-75 


86-890 


42-25 


91-923 


46-75 


96-695 


29-00 


76-157 


33-50 


81-853 


38-00 


87-177 


42-50 


92-195 


47-00 


96-953 


29-25 


76-485 


33-75 


82-158 


38-25 


87-464 


42-75 


92-466 


47-25 


97-211 


29-50 


76-811 


34-00 


82-462 


38-50 


87-749 


43-00 


92-736 


47-50 


97-467 


29-75 


77-136 


34-25 


82-764 


38-75 


88-034 


43-25 


93-005 


47-75 


97-724 


30-00 


77-459 


34-50 


83-066 


39-00 


88-317 


43-50 


93-273 


48-00 


97-979 


30-25 


77-781 


34-75 


83-366 


39-25 


88-600 


43-75 


93-541 


48-25 


98-234 


30-50 


78-102 


35-00 


83-666 


39-50 


88-881 


44-00 


93-808 


48-50 


98-488 


30-75 


78-421 


35-25 


83-964 


39-75 


89-162 


44-25 


94-074 


48-75 


98-742 


31-00 


78-740 


35-50 


84-261 


40-00 


89-442 


44-50 


94-339 


49-00 


98-994 


31-25 


79-056 


35-75 


84-567 


40-25 


89-721 


44-75 


94-604 


49-25 


99-247 


31-50 


79-372 


36-00 


84-852 


40-50 


90-000 


45-00 


94-868 


49-50 


99-498 


31-75 


79-686 


36-25 


85-146 


40-75 


90-277 


45-25 


95-131 


49-75 


99-749 


32-00 


80-000 


36-50 


85-440 


41-00 


90-553 


45-50 


95-393 


50-00 


100-000 


32-25 


80-311 


36-75 


85-732 


41-25 


90-829 


45-75 


95-655 






32-50 


80-622 


37-00 


86-023 


41-50 


91-104 


46-00 


95-916 







Certain terms are in common use in the navy* for expressing the amount 
of wind : 

Velocity in Pressure in Ibs. 
Miles per per Square 
Hour. 

0. Calm, 

1. Light air, sufficient to give steerage way, 

2. Light breeze, 

3. Gentle (3 to 4 knots), 

4. Moderate breeze (5 to 6 knots), 

5. Fresh breeze (royals), 

6. Stormy breeze (single reef and top-gallant 

sail), 

7. Moderate gale (double reef, jib), 

8. Fresh gale (triple reef, canvas), 

9. Strong gale (close reefs and courses), . 

10. Whole gale (close-reefed main-topsail and 

reefed foresail), .... 

11. Storm (storm stay -sails), 

12. Hurricane (no canvas), .... 

These terms, however, seem hardly to express the real facts. A velocity 
of 28 miles per hour is really much stronger than a six-knot breeze ; it is a 
strong wind ; 21 miles an hour would never be called by any one a " gentle 
breeze ;" it is a good stiff breeze, under which few ships would carry royals. 
Some tables give 10 to 15 miles an hour as a good breeze, 20 a brisk gale, 
and 30 to 35 a high wind. 



7 

14 
21 
28 
35 

42 



56 
63} 

70 

77 



Foot. 

25 
1 



61 

9 

16 
20J 

25 

30J 
36 



Sir H. James's "Instructions for Meteorological Observers," p. 31 of Appendix. 



426 DESCRIPTION OF METEOROLOGICAL INSTRUMENTS. 

SECTION VII. 

CLOUDS. 

The nomenclature proposed by Howard* is now universally adopted. 
There are three principal forms and four modifications. 

Principal Forms. 

Cirrus. Thin filaments, which by association form a brush, or woolly hair, 
or a slender net-work. They are very high in the atmosphere, probably more 
than ten miles, but the exact height is unknown. It has even been ques- 
tioned whether they are composed of water ; if so, it must be frozen. In this 
climate they come from the south-west. 

Cumulus. Hemispherical or conical heaps like mountains rising from a 
horizontal base ; cumuli are often compared to balls of cotton. 

Stratus. A widely-extended, continuous, horizontal sheet, often forming 
at sunset. 

Modifications. 

Cirro-cumulus. Small rounded, well-defined masses, in close, horizontal 
arrangement ; when the sky is covered with such clouds it is said to be fleecy. 

Cirro-stratus. Horizontal strata or masses, more compact than the cirri ; at 
the zenith they seem composed of a number of thin clouds ; at the horizon 
they look like a long narrow band. 

Cumulo-stratus. Cirro-stratus blended with the cumulus. 

Cumulo-cirro-stratus or Rain-cloud. A horizontal sheet above which the 
cirrus spreads, while the cumulus enters it laterally or from below. 

Estimation of Amount of Cloud. This is done by a system of numbers 
1 expresses a cloudless sky, 10 a perfectly clouded sky, the intermediate 
numbers various degrees of cloudiness. To get these numbers look midway 
between the horizon and zenith, and then turn slowly round, and judge as 
well as can be done of the relative amount of clear and clouded sky. 

SECTION VIII. 
OZONE. 

Papers covered with a composition of iodide of potassium and starch, and 
exposed to the air, are supposed to indicate the amount of ozone present in 
the atmosphere. Schonbein, the discoverer of ozone, originally prepared such 
papers, and gave a scale by which the depth of blue tint was estimated. Sub- 
sequently similar but more sensitive papers were prepared by Dr Moflat, and 
lately Mr Lowe has improved Mofiat's papers, and has also prepared some 
ozone powders. 

The papers are exposed for a definite time to the air, if possible with the 
exclusion of light, and the alteration of colour is compared with a scale. 

Schonbein's proportions are -1 part of pure iodide of potassium, 10 parts 
starch, and 200 parts of water. Lowe's proportion is 1 part of iodide to 5 of 
starch. The starch should be dissolved in cold water, and filtered so that a 
clear solution is obtained ; the iodide is dissolved in another portion of water 
and is gradually added. 

The paper prepared by being cut into slips (so as to dry quicker and to 

* Climate of London. 



ELECTRICITY. 427 

avoid loss of the powder in cutting) and soaked in distilled water, is placed in 
the mixed iodide and starch for four or five hours, then removed with a pair 
of pincers, and slowly dried in a cool dark place in a horizontal position. 
This last point is important, as, otherwise, a large amount of the iodide drains 
down to one end of the paper, and it is not equally diffused. The papers 
when used should hang loose in a box, the bottom of which is removed ; they 
must not touch or rub against each other or against the box if more than one 
is hanging they should not be touched more than can be helped with the 
fingers when they are adjusted. 

When Schonbein's papers are used they are moistened with water after ex- 
posure, but before the tint is taken. Moffat's papers are prepared somewhat 
similarly to Schonbein's, but do not require moistening with water. Mr Lowe 
has lately prepared some very sensitive papers which give very uniform results. 

The estimation of ozone is still in a very unsatisfactory state, and this arises 
from two circumstances. 

1. The fact that other substances besides ozone act on the iodide of potas- 
sium, especially nitrous acid, which is formed in some quantity during elec- 
trical storms. Cloez has shown that air taken about one metre above the 
ground often contains nitrous acid in sufficient quantity to redden litmus. 
Starch and iodide paper is coloured when air contains :00005 of its 
volume of nitrous acid. Indeed some chemists have doubted whether any 
proof has even yet been given of the presence of ozone in the atmosphere 
(Frankland). 

2. The fact that the papers can scarcely be put under the same conditions 
from day to day ; light, wind, humidity, and temperature (by expelling the 
free iodine) all effect the reaction. 

3. Two chemical objections have also been made.* Supposing that iodine 
is set free by ozone, a portion of it is at once changed by additional ozone into 
iodozone, which is extremely volatile at ordinary temperatures, and is also 
changed by contact with water into free iodine and iodic acid. Hence a por- 
tion of the iodine originally set free never acts on the starch, being either 
volatilised or oxidised. Again the ozone may possibly, and probably, act on 
the starch itself, and hence another error. 

In spite of these difficulties, it seems desirable to continue the ozone obser- 
vations j they must have a value, and the investigation will perhaps bring its 
own interpretation. But, at present, we ought to be cautious in drawing con- 
clusions from any ozonometric experiments. 

Dr Lankester has contrived a self-registering ozonometer ; an inch of pre- 
pared paper passes per hour by clock-work beneath an opening in the cover. 
The paper, however, would have to be still exposed to air in the box, unless 
means were taken for fixing the tint. 

SECTION IX. 

ELECTRICITY. 

At present the Army Medical Department has not organised any system 
of electrical observations. Eventually, probably, electrical phenomena will be 
observed and recorded. 

The instruments used by meteorologists are simple electroscopes, with two 
gold-leaf pieces which diverge when excited, or dry galvanic piles acting on 
gold-leaf plates or an index attached to a Leyden jar (Thomson's Electrometer). 



Beitrage zur Ozonornetrie, von Dr v. Maach ; Archiv. fiir Wiss. Heilk. Band ii. p. 29. 



428 DESCRIPTION OF METEOROLOGICAL INSTRUMENTS. 

SECTION X. 
THERMOMETER STAND. 

A stand is issued by the War-office, and will be provided at every station. 
If it is not so, it is very easy to make a stand by two or three strata of boards, 
placed about 6 inches apart, so as to form, a kind of sloping roof over the 
thermometers, which are suspended on a vertical board. 

The dry and wet bulb thermometers are placed in the centre ; the maximum 
on the right side, and the minimum on the left. The wood should be cut 
away behind the bulbs of the maximum and minimum thermometers, so as 
to expose them freely to the air. The bulbs of the dry and wet bulbs should 
also fall below the board. 

In the regular stands, the pole is made to rotate, so as to turn the roof 
always to the sun ; but if there is any difficulty in doing this, projecting 
pieces of wood can easily be arranged to keep the sun's rays from falling on 
the thermometers. 

The variation in the prevalence of different diseases at a particular place, 
in connection with the simultaneous variation of meteorological elements, is an 
old inquiry which has at present led to few results. The reason of this is, 
that the meteorological elements are only a few out of a great many causes 
affecting the prevalence and severity of diseases. Consequently, in order to 
estimate the real value of changes of temperature, pressure, humidity, ozone, 
&c., the other causes of disease, or of variations in prevalence or intensity, 
must be recognised and eliminated from the inquiry; then the action per se 
of the different meteorological conditions will be apparent. The subject at 
present is more fitted for a work on the practice of medicine than for one on 
hygiene. The best of the late observations are those by Eansome, Vernon, 
Moffat, Tripe, and Scoresby-Jackson. 



CHAPTER XVI. 
CLIMATE. 

IT is not easy to give a proper definition of climate. The effect of climate on 
the human body is the sum of the influences which are connected either with 
the soil, the air, or the water of a place, and as these influences are in the 
highest degree complex, it is not at present possible to trace out their effects 
with any certainty. 

With regard generally to the effect of climate on human life, it would 
seem certain that the facility of obtaining food (which is itself influenced by 
climate), rather than any of the immediate effects of climate, regulates the 
location of men and the amount of population. The human frame seems to 
acquire in time a wonderful power of adaptation ; the Esquimaux, when they 
can obtain plenty of food, are large strong men (though nothing is known of 
their average length of life), and the dwellers in the hottest parts of the world 
(provided there is no malaria, and that their food is nutritious) show a stature 
as lofty, and a strength as great, as any dwellers in temperate climates. 
Peculiarities of race, indeed, arising no one knows how, but probably from 
the combined influences of climate, food, and customs, acting through many 
ages, appear to have more effect on stature, health, and duration of life, than 
climate alone. Still, it would seem probable that, in climatic conditions so 
diverse, there arise some special differences of structure which are most 
marked in the skin, but may possibly involve other organs. 

How soon the body, when it has become accustomed by length of residence 
for successive generations to one climate, can accommodate itself to, or bear 
the conditions of, the climate of another widely different place, is a question 
which can only be answered when the influences of climate are better known. 
The hypothesis of " acclimatisation" implies that there is such an accommo- 
dation within a very limited time ; that, for example, the dweller in northern 
zones passing into the tropics acquires in a few years some special constitution 
which relieves him from the injurious consequences the change at first brought 
with it. At present this hypothesis is losing ground, and many believe that 
there is no such thing as adaptation of frame to climatic differences which are 
widely apart. 

The influences of locality and climate, as far as they are connected with 
soil and water, have been sufficiently discussed. I shall merely briefly review 
the climatic conditions most closely (though by no means solely) connected 
with air. They are temperature, humidity, movement, weight, composition, 
and electrical condition. The amount of light is another climatic condition 
of importance. 



430 CLIMATE. 

SECTION I. 
I. TEMPEKATURE.* 

The amount of the sun's rays ; the mean temperature of the air ; the varia- 
tions in temperature, both periodic and non-periodic ; and the length of time 
a high or low temperature lasts, are the most important points. Temperature 
alone has been made a ground of classification of climate. 

(a.) Equable, limited, or insular climates; i.e., with slight yearly and 
diurnal variations. 

(b.) Extreme, excessive, or continental; i.e., with great variations. 

The terms limited and extreme might be applied to the amplitude of the 
yearly fluctuation (i.e., difference between hottest and coldest month, see 
METEOROLOGY), while equable and excessive might be applied especially to the 
non-periodic variations, which are slight in some places, and extreme in others. 

A limited climate is generally an equable one, and an extreme climate 
(with great yearly fluctuation) is generally an excessive one (with great un- 
dulations). 

The effects of heat cannot be dissociated from the other conditions ; it is 
necessary, however, to briefly notice them. 

The effect of a certain degree of temperature on the vital processes of a race 
dwelling generation after generation on the same spot is a question which has 
yet received no sort of answer. Does the amount of heat per se, independent 
of food and all other conditions, affect the development of mechanical force 
and temperature, and the coincident various processes of formation and de- 
struction of the tissues ? Is there a difference in these respects, and in the 
resulting action of the eliminating organs, in the inhabitants of the equator 
and of 50 or 60 1ST. lat. ? This is entirely a problem for the future, but 
there is no class of men who have more opportunities of studying it than the 
army surgeons. 

The problem of the influence of temperature is generally presented to us 
under the form of a dweller in a temperate zone proceeding to countries either 
colder or hotter than his own. It is in this restricted sense I shall now con- 
sider it. 

With regard to the effect on the Anglo-Saxon and Celtic races of going to 
live Ji a climate with a lower mean temperature and greater variations than 
their own, we have the experience of Canada, Nova Scotia, and some parts of 
the Northern American States. In all these, if food is good and plentiful, 
health is not only sustained, but is, perhaps improved. The agricultural and 
out-door life of Canada or Nova Scotia is probably the cause of this ; but cer- 
tain it is that in those countries the European not only enjoys health, but 
produces a progeny as vigorous, if not more so, than that of the parent race. 

The effects of heat exceeding the temperate standard must be distinguished 
according to its origin ; radiant heat, or the direct rays of the sun, and non- 
radiant heat, or that of the atmosphere. In the latter case, in addition to 
heat there is more or less rarefaction of the air, and also coincident con- 
ditions of humidity and movement of the air, which must be taken into ac- 
count. The influence, again, of sudden transitions from heat to cold, or the 
reverse, has to be considered. The Europeans from temperate climates 
flourish, apparently, in countries not much hotter than their own, as in some 
parts of Australia, New Zealand, and New Caledonia, though it is yet too 
soon to speculate whether the vigour of the race will improve or otherwise. 

* For some elementary facts on temperature see METEOROLOGY. 



But 



TEMPERATURE. 431 



t there is a general impression that they do not nourish in countries much 
hotter, i.e., with a yearly mean of 20 Fahr. higher, as in many parts of India ; 
that the race dwindles, and finally dies out \ and therefore that no acclimati- 
sation of race occurs. And certainly it would appear that, in India and in the 
West Indies, sickness and mortality increase with length of residence, and 
there is some evidence to show that the pure race, if not intermixed with the 
native, does not reach beyond the third generation. Yet it seems only right 
to say that so many circumstances besides heat and the other elements of cli- 
mate have been acting on the English race in India, that any conclusion 
opposed to acclimatisation must be considered as based on scanty evidence. 
We have not gauged on a large scale the effect of climate pure and simple, 
uncomplicated with malaria, bad diet, and other influences adverse to health 
and longevity.* 

(a.) Influence of the Direct Rays of the Sun. It is not yet known to what 
temperature the direct rays of the tropical sun can raise any object on which 
they fall. In India, on the ground, the uncovered thermometer will mark 
160, and perhaps 212 (Buist) ; and in this country, if the movement of air 
is stopped in a small space, the heat in the direct sun's rays can be raised to 
the same point. In a hermetically sealed box, with a glass top, Sir H. James 
found the thermometer mark 237 Fahr., when exposed to the rays of the 
sun, on the 14th July 1864. In experiments on frogs, when a temperature 
much over the natural amount is applied to nerves, the electrical currents 
through them are lessened, and at last stop.t E. H. Weber's observations 
show that for men the same rule holds good ; the most favourable tempera- 
ture is 30 E. ( = 99'5 Fahr).:}: It appears also from Kiihne's experiments 
that the heat of the blood of the vertebrata must not exceed 113 Fahr., for at 
that temperature one of the albuminous bodies in muscles coagulates. (Lud- 
wig, Lehrb. der Phys. band ii. p. 732). Perhaps this fact may be connected 
with the pathological indication that a very high temperature in any disease 
(over 110 Fahr.) indicates the extremest danger. 

To what temperature is the skin of the head and neck raised in the tropics 
in the sun's rays 1 No sufficient experiments have, I believe, been made, 
either on this point or on the heat in the interior of caps and hats with and 
without ventilation. Doubtless, without ventilation, the heat above the head 
in the interior of a cap is very great. It is quite possible, as usually assumed, 
that with bad head-dresses the heat of the skin, bones, and possibly even of 
the deep nerves and centres (the brain and cord), may be greater than is 
accordant with perfect preservation of the currents of the nerves, or of the 
necessary temperature of the blood, or with the proper fluidity of some of the 
albuminous bodies in the muscles. 

The difficulty of estimating the exact effect of the solar rays is not only 
caused by the absence of a sufficient number of experiments, but by the com- 
mon presence of other conditions, such as a hot, rarefied, and perhaps impure 
air, and heat of the body produced by exercise, which is not attended by 
perspiration. Two points are remarkable in the history of sun-stroke, viz., 
the extreme rarity of sun-stroke in mid-ocean, and at great elevations. In 
both cases the effect of the sun's rays, per se, is not less, is even greater, than 

* In India the mortality of Eurasians (that is, the mixed race of British, Portuguese, Hindoo, 
Malay, blood mixed in all degrees) appears to be below that of the most healthy European ser- 
vice, viz., the Civil Service. Mr Tait's facts (On the Mortality of Eurasians ; " Statistical Jour- 
nal," September 1864) would show that this mixed race will maintain itself in India. 

f Eckhard, Henle's Zeitsch. band x. p. 165, 1851. 

J Weber, Ludwig's Phys., 2d ed. vol. i. p. 126. 

The cases of insolation in a narrow sea like the Red Sea do not invalidate this rule. 



'432 CLIMATE. 

on land and at sea-level ; yet in both sun-stroke is uncommon ; the temper- 
ature of the air, however, is never excessive in either case. 

The effect of the direct rays on the skin is another matter requiring inves- 
tigation. Does it aid or check perspiration ? That the skin gets dry there is 
no doubt, but this may be merely from rapid evaporation. But if the nervous 
currents are interfered with, the vessels and the amount of secretion are sure 
to be affected, and on the whole it seems probable that a physiological effect 
adverse to perspiration is produced by the direct rays of the sun. If so, and 
if this is carried to a certain point, the heat of the body must rise, and supposing 
the same conditions to continue (intense radiant heat and want of perspiration), 
may pass beyond the limit of the temperature of possible life (113 Fahr.) 

The effect of intense radiant heat on the respiration and heart is another 
point of great moment which needs investigation. 

The pathological effects produced by the too intense direct rays of the sun 
are supposed to be one form of insolation. 

A form of fever (the Causus of some writers) has been supposed to be caused 
by the direct rays of the sun combined with excessive exertion. I have seen 
a case of this kind which corresponded closely to the description in books. 
The fever lasted for several days, and its type was not in accordance with the 
hypothesis that it was malarious fever, or febricula, or typhoid. No thermo- 
metric observations were made on the patient. 

(b.) Heat in Shade. The effect of high air temperature on the native of a 
temperate climate passing into the tropics has not been very well determined, 
and some of the conclusions are drawn from experiments on animals exposed 
to an artificial temperature. 

1. The temperature of the body does not rise greatly not more than '5 or 
1 Fahr. (John Davy) ; from 1 to 2J and 3 (Eydaux and Brown Sequard). 
The temperature of the body is the result of the opposing action of two factors 
1st, of development of heat from the chemical changes of the food, and by 
the conversion of mechanical force into heat, or by direct absorption from 
without ; and, 2d, and opposed to this, of evaporation from the surface of the 
body, which regulates internal heat. So beautifully is this balance preserved, 
that the stability of the animal temperature in all countries has always been 
a subject of marvel. If anything, however, prevents this evaporation, radia- 
tion and the cooling effect of moving wind cannot cool the body sufficiently 
in tb- tropics. Then, no doubt, the temperature of the body rises, and the 
extreme discomfort always attending abnormal heat of body commences. 
Thermometric observations in the tropics on this point are much needed. 
In experiments in ovens, Blagden and Fordyce bore a temperature of 260 
with a small rise of temperature (2J Fahr.), but the air was dry, and the heat 
of their bodies was reduced by perspiration ; when the air in ovens is very 
moist and evaporation is hindered, the temperature of the body rises rapidly.* 

2. The respirations are lessened in number (Vierordt, Ludwig) in animals sub- 
jected to heat, and the same is believed to hold good in the tropics. According 
to Visrordt, less carbonic acid and presumably less water are eliminated. 

3. The heart's action is somewhat increased in frequency, perhaps not in 
force, in new comers, in tropical climates. In experiments on animals, mo- 
derate heat does not quicken the heart, but great heat does. 

4. The digestive powers are somewhat lessened, there is less appetite, less 
desire for animal food, and more wish for cool fruits. The quantity of 
bile secreted by the liver is not increased, if the stools are to be taken as a 
guide (Marshall, in 1819, John Davy, Morehead, author), though Lawson 

* Even 7 to 8 Fahr. Ludwig, " Lehrb. der Phys.," 2d edit. b. ii. p. 730. 






TEMPERATURE. 433 

believes that an excess of colouring matter passes out with the stools ; nothing 
is known of the condition of the usual liver work. 

5. The skin acts much more than usual, and great local hypersemia and 
swelling of the papillae occur in new comers, giving rise to the familiar erup- 
tion known as " prickly heat." In process of time, if exposed to great heat, 
the skin suffers apparently in its structure, "becoming of a slight yellowish 
colour from, probably, pigmentary deposits in the deep layers of the cuticle. 

6. The urine is lessened in quantity. The urea is lessened, as shown by 
experiments in hot seasons at home and during voyages (Dr Forbes Watson 
and Dr Becher).* It is not yet certain whether this is simply from lessened 
food. The pigment has been supposed to be increased (Lawson), but this is 
doubtful. The chloride of sodium is lessened ; the amount of uric and phos- 
phoric acids is uncertain. 

7. The effect on the nervous system is generally considered as depressing 
and exhausting, i. e., there is less general vigour of mind and body. But it is 
undoubted that the greatest exertions both of mind and body have been made 
by Europeans in hot climates. Eobert Jackson thought as much work could 
be got out of men in hot as in temperate climates. It is probable that the 
depressing effects of heat are most felt when it is combined with great humi- 
dity of the atmosphere, so that evaporation from the skin, and consequent 
lessening of bodily heat, is partly or totally arrested. 

The most exhausting effects of heat are felt when the heat is continuous, 
i.e., very great, day and night, and especially on sandy plains where the air 
is highly rarefied day and night. There is then really a lessened quantity of 
oxygen in a given cubic space, t Add to this fact that the respirations are 
lessened, and we have two factors at work which must diminish the ingress of 
oxygen, and thereby lessen one of the great agents of metamorphosis. 

On the whole, even when sufficient perspiration keeps the body tempera- 
ture within the limits of health, the effect of great heat in shade seems to be, 
as far as we can judge, a depressing influence lessening the nervous activity, 
the great functions of digestion, respiration, sanguification, and directly or 
indirectly the formation and destruction of tissues. Whether this is the heat 
alone, or heat and lessened oxygen, and great humidity, is not certain. 

So bad have been the general and personal hygienic conditions of Europeans 
in India, that it is impossible to say what amount of the great mortality in 

* These experiments are not yet fully published ; they were made during voyages to Bombay 
and China, and show that when the temperature reached a certain point (75 in Dr Becher's 
experiments), the solids of the urine and the urea lessened considerably. Proceedings of the 
Royal Society, 1862. 

T A cubic foot of dry air at 32 weighs 566-850 grains, and if the proportion of nitrogen and 
oxygen be assumed to be by weight 77 and 23 per cent., and the slight amount of carbonic acid 
be neglected, there will be in a cubic foot 

436-475 grains of nitrogen. 
130-375 oxygen. 

566-850 

As a man draws, on an average, when tranquil, 16 -6 cubic feet per hour into his lungs, he will 
thus receive 130-375 X 16 -6 = 2164-2 grains of oxygen per hour. 
At a temperature of 80 the foot of air weighs 516-38 grains, and is made up by weight of 

397-61 grains of nitrogen. 

11877 oxygen. 

516-38 

Therefore, in an hour if a man withdraws 16'6 cubic feet, he will receive 118-77 X 16-6 = 1971 '6 
grains of oxygen per hour. Or, in other words, in an hour he would receive 192-6 grains of oxygen 
less with the higher temperature, an amount equal to about 9 per cent, of the amount supplied 
at the lower temperature. 

If saturated with moisture, a cubic foot of air will contain 130 grains of oxygen at 32, 
and 112 grains at 100. 

2 E 



434 CLIMATE. 

that country is due to excess of heat over the temperature of Europe. Nor 
is it possible to determine the influence of heat alone on the endemic diseases 
of Europeans in the tropics liver disease and dysentery. There is, perhaps, 
after all, little immediate connection between heat and liver disease. 

Rapid Changes of Temperature. The exact physiological effects have not 
yet been traced out ; and these sudden vicissitudes are often met by altered 
clothing, or other means of varying the temperature of the body. The greatest 
influence of great changes of temperature, appears to be when the state of the 
body in some way coincides with or favours their action. Thus, the sudden 
checking of the profuse perspiration by a cold wind produces catarrhs, inflam- 
mations, and neuralgia. I have been astonished, however, to find how well 
even phthisical persons will bear great changes of temperature, if they are 
not exposed to moving currents of air; and there can be little doubt that 
the wonderful balance of the system is soon readjusted. 



SECTION II. 
HUMIDITY. 

According to their degree of humidity climates are divided into moist and 
dry. Professor TyndalTs observations have shown how greatly the humidity 
of the air influences climate, by hindering the passage of heat from the earth. 
As far as the body is concerned, the chief effect of moist air is exerted on the 
evaporation from the skin and lungs, and therefore the degree of dryness or 
moisture of an atmosphere should be expressed in terms of the relative (and not 
of the absolute) humidity, and should always be taken in connection with the 
temperature, movement, and density of the air, if this latter varies much from 
that of sea-level. The evaporating power of an atmosphere which contains 
75 per cent, of saturation is very different, according as the temperature of the 
air is 40 or 80. As the temperature rises, the evaporative power increases 
faster than the rise in the thermometer. 

There is a general opinion that an atmosphere which permits free, without 
excessive, evaporation is the best ; but there are few precise experiments. 

The most agreeable amount of humidity to most healthy people is when 
the relative humidity is between 70 to 80 per cent. In chronic lung diseases, 
how :^er, a very moist air is generally most agreeable, and allays cough. The eva- 
poration from the lungs produced by a dry atmosphere appears to irritate them. 

The moist hot siroccos, which are almost saturated with water, are felt as op- 
pressive by man and beast ; and this can hardly be from any other cause than 
the check to evaporation, and the consequent rise in the temperature of the body. 

It is not yet known what rate of evaporation is the most healthy. Excessive 
evaporation, such as may be produced by a dry sirocco, is well borne by some 
persons, but not by all. Probably, in some cases, the physiological factor of 
perspiration comes into play, and the nerves and vessels of the skin are altered ; 
and in this way perspiration is checked. We can hardly account, in any other 
way, for the fact, that in some persons, the dry sirocco, or dry, hot land wind, 
produces harshness and dryness of the skin, and general malaise, which possibly 
(though there is yet no thermometric proof) may be caused by a rise of tem- 
perature of the body. 

From the experiments of Lehmann on pigeons and rabbits, it appears that 
more carbonic acid is exhaled from the lungs in a very moist than in a dry 
atmosphere. The pathological effects of humidity are intimately connected 
with the temperature. Warmth and great humidity are borne, on the whole, 



PilESSUKE OF THE AIR. 435 

more easily than cold and great humidity. Yet, in both cases, so wonderful 
is the power of adaptation of the body, that often no harm results. 

The spread of certain diseases is supposed to be intimately related to 
humidity of the air. Malarious diseases, it is said, never attain their fullest 
epidemic spread unless the humidity approaches saturation. Plague and 
smallpox are both checked by -a very dry atmosphere. The cessation of 
bubo plague in Upper Egypt, after St John's Day, has been considered to be 
more owing to dryness than to the heat of the air. 

In the dry Harmattan wind, on the west coast of Africa, smallpox cannot 
be inoculated ; and it is well known with what difficulty cowpox is kept up 
in very dry seasons in India. Yellow fever, on the other hand, seems inde- 
pendent of moisture, or will at any rate prevail in a dry air. The observations 
at Lisbon, which Lyons has recorded, show no relation to the dew point. 

With regard to other diseases, and especially to diseases of sanguification 
and nutrition, observations are much needed. 



SECTION III. 
MOVEMENT OF AIE. 

This is a very important climatic condition. The effect on the body is two- 
fold. A cold wind abstracts heat, and in proportion to its velocity ; a hot 
wind carries away little heat by direct abstraction, but, if dry, increases eva- 
poration, and in that way may in part counteract its own heating power. 
Both, probably, act on the structure of the nerves of the skin, and on the 
contractility of the cutaneous vessels, and may thus influence the rate of 
evaporation, and possibly other organs. 

The amount of the cooling effect of moving bodies of air is not easy to de- 
termine, as it depends on three factors, viz., the velocity of movement, the 
temperature, and the humidity of the air. The effect of movement is very 
great. In a still atmosphere, an extremely low temperature is borne without 
difficulty. In the arctic expeditions, still air many degrees below zero of 
Fahr. caused no discomfort. But any movement of such cold air at once 
chills the frame. It has been asserted that some of the hot and very dry 
desert winds will, in spite of their warmth, chill the body ; and if so, it can 
scarcely be from any other reason than the enormous evaporation they cause 
from the skin. It is very desirable, however, that this observation should be 
repeated, with careful thermometrical observations on the body and surface. 



SECTION IV. 
WEIGHT OF THE AIE. 

I shall not here enter into the question, whether the slight changes in the 
pressure of the atmosphere, which occur at any one spot, have any effect on 
health, or any influence on disease. 

Effects of Considerable Lessening of Pressure. 

When the difference of pressure between two places is considerable, a 
marked effect is produced, and there seems no doubt that the influence of 
mountain localities is destined to be of great importance in therapeutics. It is 
of particular interest to the army surgeon, as so many regiments in the tropics 
are, or will be, quartered at considerable elevations. 

2E2 



436 CLIMATE. 

In ascending mountains there is rarefaction, i.e., lessened pressure of air ; on 
an average (if the weight of the air at sea-level is 14 ft) on every square inch,) 
an ascent of 900 feet takes off \ Bb ; but this varies with height (see Measure- 
ment of Heights) ; there are also lowered temperature, and lessened moisture 
above 4000 feet ; greater movement of the air ; increased amount of light ; 
greater sun radiation, if clouds are absent. The air is freer from germs of 
infusoria. Owing to the rarefaction of the air and lessened watery vapour 
there is greater diathermancy of the air ; the soil is rapidly heated, but radi- 
ates also fast, as the heat is not so much held back by vapour in the air, hence 
there is very great cooling of the ground and the air close to it at night. 

The received physiological effects of lessened pressure begin to be percep- 
tible at 2800 or 3000 feet of altitude ( - descent of 2J to 3 inches of mer- 
cury) ; they are quickened pulse* (fifteen to twenty beats per minute) ; 
quickened respiration (increase = ten to fifteen respirations per minute), in- 
creased evaporation from skin and lungs ; lessened urinary water, t At great 
heights there is increased pressure of the gases in the body against the contain- 
ing parts ; swelling of superficial vessels, and occasionally bleeding from the 
nose or lungs. A sensation of weight is felt in the limbs from the lessened 
pressure on the joints. At altitudes under 6000 or 7000 feet the effect of 
mountain air (which is, perhaps, not owing solely to lessened pressure, but 
also, possibly, to increased light and pleasurable excitement of the senses) is a 
very marked improvement in digestion, sanguification, and in nervous and 
muscular vigour.^; It is inferred that tissue change is accelerated, but nothing 
definite is known. 

The rapid evaporation at elevated positions is certainly a most important 
element of mountain hygiene. At Puebla and at Mexico the hygrometer of 
Saussure will often mark 37, which is equal to only 45 per cent, of satura- 
tion (Jourdanet, "Du Mexique," p. 49), and yet the lower rooms of the 
houses are very humid, so that, in the town of Mexico, there are really two 
climates, one very moist, in the rez-de-chaussee of the houses ; one very dry, 
in the upper rooms and the outside air. 

The diminution of oxygen, in a certain cubic space, is precisely as the 
pressure, and can be calculated for any height, if the barometer is noted. 
Taking dry air only, a cubic foot of air at 30 inches, and at 32 Fahr., con- 
kins 130 4 grains of oxygen. An ascent (about 5000 feet) which reduces the 

barometer to 25 inches will lessen this Jth, or t - = j!08'6 grains. 

But it is supposed that the increased number of respirations compensate, or 
more so, for this, and, in addition, it must be remembered that in experiments 
on animals, as long as the percentage of oxygen did not sink below a certain 
point (14 per cent.), as much was absorbed into the blood as when the 
oxygen was in normal proportion. Jourdanet has indeed asserted ("Du 
Mexique," p. 76), that the usual notion that the respirations are augmented 
in number in the inhabitants of high lands is " completely erroneous ;" that 
the respirations are in fact lessened, and that from time to time a deeper respira- 
tion is voluntarily made as a partial compensation. But Coindet, from 1500 
observations on French and Mexicans, does not confirm this ; the mean imm- 

* Balloon ascents. Biot and Gay Lussac at 9,000 feet=increase of 18 to 30 beats of the pulse. 
Glaisher, . . at 17, 000 = 10 to 24 

. at 24, 000 = 24 to 31 

The beats seem to augment in number with the elevation. These are safer numbers than those 
obtained in mountain ascents, as there is no physical exertion. In mountain climbing the in- 
crease is much greater. 

f Vivenot, Virchow's Archiv. 1860, band xix. p. 492. This is probable, but not yet proved. 
J Hermann Weber, " Climate of the Swiss Alps," 1864, p. 17. 



PRESSURE OF THE AIR. 437 

her of respirations was 19'36 per minute for the French, and 20^97 for the 
Mexicans.* 

Jourdanet (loc. cit. p. 291) asserts that the "respiratory aliments" are badly 
digested ; that butter remains in the stomach ; that starch and sugar render 
the mouth and tongue coated and destroy appetite ; that alcohol remains a 
long tune in the circulation. Whether there is any truth in this remains to 
be seen. It accords with M. Jourdanet's improbable hypothesis of the condi- 
tion of respiration ; and this perhaps renders the statement doubtful. 

As a curative agent, mountain air (that is, the consequences of lessened 
pressure chiefly) ranks very high in all anaemic affections from whatever 
cause (malaria, haemorrhage, digestive feebleness, even lead and mercury 
poisoning), and it would appear, from Hermann Weber's observations, that 
the existence of valvular heart disease is, if proper rules are observed, no 
contra-indication against the lower elevations (2000 to 3000 feet). Neuralgia, 
gout, and rheumatism are all benefited by high Alpine positions (H. Weber). 
Scrofula and consumption have been long known to be rare among the 
dwellers on high lands, and the curative effect on these diseases of such places 
is also marked ; but it is possible that the open air life which is led has an 
influence, as it is now known that great elevation is not necessary for the cure 
of phthisis, t 

Dr Hermann Weber, in his important work on the Swiss Alps, thus sums 
up the present evidence : 

" Tubercular phthisis occurs not rarely in the lower mountainous or sub- 
Alpine region, but in the true Alpine region it seems to be almost absent. 
Thus it is of very rare occurrence among the priests on the Great St Bernard ; 
and Dr Briigger has scarcely ever observed it amongst those inhabitants of 
the Upper Engadin who have not resided in other countries ; and has further 
found that this disease is generally cured, in natives of the Engadin, when 
they return to their mountains, before it has made great progress. Dr Albert 
of Brian9on, in the Dauphine" (4283 feet above the sea-level), bears, according 
to Lombard (loc. cit. p. 93), the same testimony. These observations are quite 
in harmony with what we know of the occurrence of tubercular phthisis in 
other mountainous countries. Thus patients affected with phthisis at Lima 
are sent on the adjacent mountains of Peru, where phthisis is scarcely known 
at an elevation of about 8000 feet. It is described as very rare at Mexico 

* The statements of M. Jourdanet ("Du Mexique an point de Vue de son influence sur la 
vie de 1'Homme," Paris, 1861,) are so adverse to general opinion, that it is to be hoped the sub- 
ject will be soon thoroughly investigated. Jourdanet asserts that elevation lessens the " respi- 
ratory endosmosis ; " that cattle imported into the mountains of Mexico suffer ; horses, for 
example, breathe with difficulty, run badly, are often ill, have rheumatism, and often die of 
pleurisy. " As to man, the modifications he suffers, at first less visible, become with time still 
more evident, and while strangers acclimatise easily at sea-level in countries which are not 
malarious, and reach, 'in good health, an advanced age, those who live on the altitudes are more 
feeble and sickly, and seldom reach the natural term of human existence" (p. 79). This is attri- 
buted both to lessened pressure and lessened watery vapour, and a kind of anaemia is said to be 
very common in the city of Mexico and at Puebla. As this assertion is quite contrary to the 
experience of the Swiss Alpine regions, it has been examined by Coindet in Mexico, and is de- 
clared to be incorrect. Joiirdanet states that the circulation is always increased, and in the 
disproportion between the circulation and the respiration he traces the origin of those " dan- 
gerous engorgements," which he believes to be the consequence of residence on the heights of 
Mexico (6000 to 7000 feet). A thorough examination of all these points could be made more 
thoroughly by the army surgeons on the Indian hill stations than by any body of men in the 
world, and it is to be hoped the inquiry will soon be systematically entered upon. At present 
Jourdanet's statements are, on the whole, much doubted. 

f" Some time ago a remarkable paper was published by Dr James Blake of California on the 
treatment of phthisis (" Pacific Medical Journal," 1860). He adopted the plan of making his 
patients live in the open air ; in the summer months he made them sleep out without any tent ; 
the result was an astonishing improvement in digestion and sanguification ; the resistance to 
any ill effects from cold and wet are described as marvellous. As Dr Blake is well known to be 
perfectly trustworthy, these statements are worthy of all consideration. 



438 CLIMATE. 

(7000 feet) and Quito (8700 feet), and still more so in higher elevations. The 
elevation beyond which phthisis becomes rare, or is absent, seems to vary- 
considerably in different latitudes, and to become lower as we proceed towards 
the poles. In the tropical zone it may be regarded as becoming rare above 
7000 feet ; in the warmer temperate zone, above 3500 to 5000 feet ; in the 
colder temperate zone, above 1300 to 3000 feet elevation. In Switzerland, 
between 46 and 48 N. lat., the frequency of its occurrence diminishes above 
3000 feet ; in the Black Forest, between 47 and 49 T. lat., above 2500 ; 
in the mountains of Thiiringen and Silesia, and in the Harz, between 50 and 
52 N. lat., above 1200 to 1400 feet. Fuchs " Medicinishe Geographic," 
1853, p. 35), states that at Brotterode (1840 feet), in the mountains of Thiir- 
ingen, the percentage of deaths from phthisis is only 0'9. Brehmer assures 
us that in the neighbourhood of Gb'rbersdorf, in Silesia (1700 feet), tubercular 
phthisis has never been seen by him amongst the inhabitants (" Die Chro- 
nische Lungen-schwindsucht," Berlin, 1857, p. 134) an observation which 
Dr H. Beigel, who has for several years resided at Reinerz (1700 feet above 
the level of the sea, and very near to Gorbersdorf), has, in a personal commu- 
nication to me, to a great degree confirmed." (Weber, op. cit. p. 22.) 

Although on the Alps phthisis is thus arrested in strangers, in many places 
the Swiss women on the lower heights suffer greatly from it ; the cause is a 
social one ; the women employed in making embroidery congregate all day in 
small, ill-ventilated, low rooms, where they are often obliged to be in a con- 
strained position ; their food is poor in quality. Scrofula is very common. 
The men, who live an open air life, are exempt ; therefore, in the very place 
where strangers are getting well of phthisis the natives die from it another 
instance that we must look to local conditions and social habits for the great 
cause of phthisis. It would even seem probable that, after all, it is not indeed 
elevation and rarefaction of air, but simply plenty of fresh air and exercise, 
which cures phthisis. 

Jourdanet, who differs from so much that is commonly accepted on this 
point, gives additional evidence on this point. At Yera Cruz phthisis is 
common ; at Puebla and on the Mexican heights, it is almost absent (a peu 
pres nulle). The fact seems certain, whatever may be the fate of Jourdanet's 
explanation of it. 

The diseases for which mountain air is least useful are rheumatism; at the 
lower elevations where the air is moist ; above this rheumatism is improved ; 
chronic inflammatory affections of the respiratory organs (?) The " mountain 
asthma" appears, however, from Weber's observations, to be no specific disease, 
but to be common pulmonary emphysema following chronic bronchitis. 

It seems likely that pneumonia, pleurisy, and acute bronchitis, are more 
common in higher alpine regions than lower down.* 

* As M. Jourdanet's experience in Mexico has been great, and as no other work with which 
I am acquainted professes to give so complete a summary of a mountain climate, I have thought 
it desirable to give some of his conclusions (loc. cit. p. 389), as particularly interesting in con- 
nection with hill life in India ; but, of course, several of them are very doubtful, and are only 
useful as leading to further inquiry. Already one or two of his assertions have been denied. 

" In Mexico, at 2270 metres (7445 feet), the mean temperature of the year is 17 Cent. 
(62 0< 6 Fahr.) At this height the rarity of the air renders the inhabitants bloodless. They are 
weak, generally apathetic, gentle, generous, and amiable. Under the influence of this rarefac- 
tion of the air human life is shorter than it is at the level of the sea ; so that in this strange 
country it is not the localities esteemed most unhealthy which influence most fatally the life of 
man. At the greatest elevations of the Cordilleras of Mexico typhoid affections are very 
common. They coincide especially with the great rarefaction of the air and the extreme dry- 
ness at the period of the heat of spring, and there is no need of unwholesome emanations to 
develop them. Acute inflammations are rare in these altitudes ; their duration induces the 
passage to the adynamic state, and chronicity is not common in diseases of that type so that 
we find an analogy in this respect with what goes on in marshy countries at the level of the sea. 



PliESSUKE OF THE AIB. 439 

Effects of increased Pressure. The effects of increased pressure have been 
noticed in persons working in diving-bells, &c., or in those submitted to 
treatment by compressed air. (At Lyons especially.) When the pres- 
sure is increased to from 1J to 2 atmospheres, the pulse becomes slower, 
though this varies in individual cases ; the mean lessening is 10 beats per 
minute ; the respirations are slightly lessened (1 per minute) ; evaporation 
from the skin and lungs is said to be lessened (?) there is some recession of 
blood from the peripheral parts ; there is a little ringing and sometimes pain 
in the ears ; hearing is more acute ; the urine is increased in quantity ; ap- 
petite is increased ; it is said men will work more vigorously. When the 
pressure is much greater (two to three atmospheres) the effects are sometimes 
very marked ; great lowering of the pulse, heaviness, headache, and some- 
times, it is said, deafness. It is said* that more oxygen is absorbed, and that 
the venous blood is as red as the arterial ; the skin also sometimes acts more, 
and there may even be sweating. 

When the workmen leave the compressed air they are said to sujffer from 

Europeans on these heights die most frequently of pneumonia and typhus. Diseases of the 
heart are frequent, and their course rapid in countries which exceed 2000 metres (6560 feet), 
congestions are generally very common on great elevations. These congestions may continue 
long without assuming an inflammatory type. The liver, the uterus, and the brain, are the 
organs most subject to congestion. These congestions have their origin in the imperfect 
oxygenation of the blood. Abscess of the liver is often met with at an altitude above 2000 
metres (6560 feet). Marsh poisoning is easy and terrible on the coasts of the Gulf ; it is still 
powerful at 1000 metres (3280 feet) ; beyond this point it diminishes progressively, and at 
Mexico, over 2270 metres (7445 feet), it is very slight. Black vomit never shows itself at 
1000 metres (3280 feet) high, but the germ acquired at the coast may develop itself on the 
heights of the Cordilleras a few days after the arrival of the travellers. These cases of black 
vomit are generally fatal. The cholera rages on these altitudes as at the level of the sea. 
Neuroses and neuralgias are very common on the great heights of the Cordilleras. Functional 
disorders of the stomach are often observed there. Vertigo takes a special character, assuming 
often an acute but apyretic form. I have designated this vertigo as cerebro-anemico-vertigineuse. 
The diminution of atmospheric pressure and density of air being the occasion of a lessening of 
a respiratory aliment (oxygen), phthisis is more uncommon on these altitudes than at the level 
of the sea. Tuberculization, though very common, and always acute on the coast, diminishes 
as we ascend the Cordilleras, in the same proportion as the density of the air, and becomes very 
rare as we rise above 2000 metres (6560 feet). At this elevation phthisis rarely attacks persons 
who follow good hygienic rules. Foreigners are hardly ever attacked with this disease. Cases 
of phthisis from Europe often recover here. In Mexico, phthisis is in relation to the amount 
of oxygen inhaled. On the coast, the activity of nightly respirations exceeds physiological 
needs. Also phthisis there is frequent, and acute in places where the soil is dry. Where the 
soil is damp, the marshy miasmata are combined with oxygen in the bronchial tubes, whence 
results a lessened respiratory aliment (oxygen) ; and it is on this account that phthisis is so rarely 
seen. What I have just said leads me to trace an analogy between the action of marshy countries 
and the influence of high lands on tuberculous phthisis. Every substance, and every influence 
acting in the sense of diminishing the quantity or the effects of oxygen, is consequently useful in 
cases of phthisis. The same result is arrived at if, by any process whatever, we oppose to the 
absorbed oxygen an aliment which abstracts from its action the plastic part of the organism. 
Countries of 2000 metres (6560 feet) of altitude offer the best points as a therapeutic station for 
the cure of phthisis, provided these localities are dry, that the mean temperature of the air is 
not below 14 Cent. (57 Fahr.), and that the extreme variations of winter and summer are not 
less than 5 and do not exceed 23 Cent. This is the case on the central table-land of Mexico. 
Scrofula is here ' en rapport ' with phthisis. Cancer is frequently observed there. Pulmonary 
emphysema, acquired at the level of the sea, is either mitigated or cured on heights above 2000 
metres (6560 feet). Asthma acquired on the heights causes premature death, by adding a 
fresh impediment to hsematosis already impaired by the altitude. Subcutaneous tenotomy has 
clearly proved that surgical inflammation does not follow when the parts operated upon are 
protected from contact with the air. The heights, by diminishing this contact by a less density 
of atmosphere, are favourable to surgical operations. These are generally followed by happy 
results at an elevation of above 2000 metres (6500 feet). In short, contrary to the assertions of 
M. le Dr Lombard, who places these great altitudes among exciting and tonic climates, these 
elevated regions produce a great debilitating effect on life and on disease. I do not mean to 
say that this distinguished practitioner has written without discernment his book on the Climates 
of Mountains. His work is, on the contrary, very conscientious, and is distinguished by judg- 
ments most frequently unanswerable. But my observations begin where his end at 2000 
metres in height. At this point documents were wanting to this estimable confrere." 
* Foley Du Travail dans 1'air comprime', Gaz. Hebdom, 1863, No. 32. 



440 CLIMATE. 

haemorrhages and occasional nervous affections, which may be from cerebral or 
spinal haemorrhage.* 

As a curative agent in phthisis, the evidence is unfavourable. 



SECTION V. 
COMPOSITION OF THE AIE. 

The proportionate amounts of oxygen and nitrogen remain very constant 
in all countries, and the range of variation is not great. 

So also, apart from the habitations of men, the amount of carbonic acid is 
(at elevations occupied by men) constant. The variations in watery vapour 
have been already noticed. 

The only alterations in the composition of the air which come under the 
head of climate, are changes in the state in which oxygen exists (for no 
change is known to occur in nitrogen), and the presence of impurities. 

SUB-SECTION I. OZONE AND ANTOZONE. 

Since the discovery of ozone by Schb'nbein, it has seemed not unlikely that 
variations in the amount of this substance would be one reason of climatic dif- 
ferences. At present, however, it cannot be said we have any safe data to go 
upon ; this has arisen chiefly from the imperfection of the test for ozone (see 
METEOROLOGY). Admitting the presence of ozone in the air, the paper tests 
are uncertain, and are also acted on by other substances. But some che- 
mists even doubt whether there be yet satisfactory evidence that ozone does 
exist in the air, though no one doubts the existence of this substance, and its 
origin from, and connection with, common oxygen. t This much, however, is 
certain, that the reaction given by Schonbein's or Moffat's papers is different 
in different places, and differs in the same place on different days, even when 
wind, light, &c., are equal. So that there is a measurable change in the air, 
which it is certainly worth while to take notice of. 

The reaction with these papers is greater in pure than in impure air ; at the 
seaside than in the interior ; with south and west winds (in this country) 
than with north and east. 

The reaction is often absent from hospital wards, though present in the air 
around them. 

According to Moffat the indications are greater when the barometer, the 
mean daily temperature, and the dew-point are all high. Lowe's observations 
show that indications are less either when the air is dry or quite saturated, he 
also found more reaction when the barometer is low. The reaction is said to 
be at its minimum in the autumn in this country. 

* See Limousin in Canstatt, 1863, band ii. p. 105, and Babington in " Dublin Quarterly 
Journal," Nov. 1864. 

f The late researches of Meissner (" Chemical News," July 1864) show that when oxygen is ' 
converted into ozone by electricity (in which process it lessens in volume and becomes heavier 
A ndreivs), and is then led through iodide of potassium, every trace of ozone is removed ; but 
when the gas which emerges from the solution of iodide of potassium is passed through pure 
water, a thick white mist appears, sometimes so thick as to render the surface of the water quite 
opaque. A certain amount of vapour is necessary for its formation. Meissner at first called 
this smoke or mist-forming gas atmizone (aT>ua>, I smoke), but subsequently ascertained that 
it was identical with Schonbein's antozone. The mist can be poured like carbonic acid from one 
vessel to another ; on standing, it gradually becomes transparent, and drops of water are de- 
posited ; when it has once disappeared it cannot be reproduced, and the air has all the proper- 
ties of ordinary oxygen. Thus atmizone has the property of attracting moisture, and giving it 
the character of a cloud. The whole matter is however extremely uncertain. 



MALARIA. 441 

As already stated, the great imperfections in the reagent (see METEOROLOGY) 
make it desirable to avoid all conclusions at present, but one or two points 
must be adverted to. 

1. Owing probably to the oxidising power of ozone when prepared from 
oxygen, a great power of purification of organic matter floating in the air has 
been ascribed to ozone both by Schonbein and others, and to the amount of 
organic matter in the air of towns the absence of ozone in the air has been 
ascribed. Even the cessation of epidemics (of cholera, malarious fevers) 
has been ascribed to currents of air bringing ozone with them. The accumu- 
lation of malaria at night has been ascribed to the non-production of ozone by 
the sun's rays (Uhle). The effect of stagnant air in increasing epidemics has 
also been ascribed to the absence of ozone. 

It seems clear that the substance giving the reaction of ozone is neither de- 
ficient in marshy districts, nor when ozone is conducted through marsh dew 
does it destroy the organic matter (see page 80). Is there any experimental 
proof that it acts on the organic impurities of respiration ? I have been able 
to find none recorded, except the fact already noticed, that the reaction is 
least in impure air. It is incumbent on the supporters of this view (which 
may or may not be correct) to bring forward more experimental proof. I do 
not see any evidence of weight to prove that deficiency in ozone has assisted 
the spread of epidemics of any of the specific diseases, or that excess has 
checked them. 

2. On account of the irritating effect of ozone, when rising from an elec- 
trode, Schonbein believed it had the power of causing catarrh, and inferred 
that epidemics of influenza might be produced by it. He has attempted to 
adduce evidence, but at present it may safely be said that there is no proof of 
such an origin of epidemic catarrhs. 

3. A popular opinion is, that a climate in which there is much ozone (i.e. 
of the substance giving the reaction with starch paper) is a healthy, and, to 
use a common phrase, an exciting one. The coincidence of excess of this re- 
action with pure air lends some support to this, but, like the former opinions, 
it still wants a sufficient experimental basis. 

On the whole, the subject of the presence and effects of atmosphere ozone, 
curious and interesting as it is, is very uncertain at present ; experiments must 
be numerous, and inferences drawn from them will for a long time have to be 
received with caution. 



SUB-SECTION II. MALARIA. 

The most important organic impurity of the atmosphere is malaria (for Air 
of Marshes, see page 80), and when a climate is called " unhealthy," in many 
cases it is simply meant that it is malarious. In the chapters on SOILS and 
AIR the most important hygienic facts connected with malaria have been 
noted. In this place it only remains to note one or two of the climatic points 
associated with malaria. 

1. Vertical Ascent. A marsh or malarious tract of country existing at any 
point, what altitude gives immunity from the malaria, supposing there is no 
drifting up ravines ? It is well known that even a slight elevation lessens 
danger a few feet even, in many cases, but complete security is only ob- 
tained at greater heights. Low elevations of 200 to 300 feet are often, indeed, 
more malarious than lower lands, as if the malaria chiefly drifted up. 

At present the elevation of perfect security in different parts of the world 
is not certainly determined, but appears to be 



442 CLIMATE. 

Italy, . . . . 400 to 500 feet* 

America (Appalachia), . . 3000 

Calif ornia,t . . . . 1000 

India, .... 2000 3000 

West Indies, . . 1400 1800 up to 2200 feet. 

But these numbers are so far uncertain that it has not always been seen 
that the question is not, whether marshes can exist at these elevations (we 
know they can be active at 6000 feet), but whether the emanations from a 
marsh will ascend that height without drifting up ravines ? I cannot help 
suspecting that 1000 to 1200 feet would generally give security. 

2. Horizontal Spread. In a calm air Levy* has supposed that the malaria 
will spread until it occupies a cube of 1400 to 2000 feet, which is equivalent 
to saying it will spread 700 to 1000 feet horizontally from the central point 
of the marsh. But currents of air take it great distances, though tl|e best 
observations show that these distances are less than were supposed, and seldom 
overpass one or two miles, unless the air-currents are rapid and strong. The pre- 
cise limits are unknown, but it is very doubtful if the belief in transference of 
malaria by air-currents for 10, 20, or even 100 miles, is correct. 

3. Spread over Water. The few precise observations show that this differs 
in different countries. In. the Channel, between Beveland and Walcheren, 
3000 feet of water stopped it (Blane). In China and the West Indies a 
further distance is necessary. In China three-quarters of a mile has been effec- 
tual ; in the West Indies one mile. Grant thinks salt water more efficacious 
than fresh. 

SECTION VI. 
ELECTRICAL CONDITION LIGHT. 

That these, as well as heat, are important parts of that complex agency we 
call Climate, seems clear ; but little can be said on the point. In hot countries 
positive electricity is more abundant ; but the effect of its amount and variation 
on health and on the spread and intensity of diseases is quite unknown. All 
-that has been ascribed to it is pure speculation. The only certain fact seems 
to me that the spread of cholera is not influenced either by its presence or 
absence. 

With regard to light, the physiological doctrine of the necessity of light for 
growth and perfect nutrition makes us feel sure that this is an important part 
of climate, but no positive facts are known. 

Dr Eoscoe has proposed a plan of measuring the intensity of light, which 
will probably be very useful in Meteorology. 

A sensitive photographic paper is prepared, and the time given to produce a 
constant tint is noted. At present, however, the apparatus is not sufficiently 
perfected to be commonly used. 

* Carriers, quoted by Levy, t. i. p. 491. 

f This information was given me by my friend Dr James Blake. 

+ T. i. p. 464. 

Grant (quoted by Chevers), " Indian Annals," 1859, p. 636. 



CHAPTER XVII. 

ON THE PREVENTION OF SOME OF THE IMPORTANT 
AND COMMON DISEASES IN THE ARMY. 

THERE are two modes by which we may attempt to prevent the occurrence of 
disease. 

1. By conforming with the general rules of hygiene, by which the "body and 
mind are brought into a state of more vigorous health. 

2. By investigating and removing the causes of the diseases which we find 
actually in. operation. This part of the inquiry is in fact a necessary supple- 
ment to the other, though in proportion to the observance of the general rules 
of hygiene the causes of disease will gradually be removed. At present, how- 
ever, we have to deal with the facts before us, viz., that there are a great 
number of diseases actually existent which must form the subject of investiga- 
tion. We proceed in this case from the particular to the general, whereas, in 
the first mode, we deduce general rules which have to be applied to individual 
instances. 

Hygiene is in this direction an application of etiology, and etiology is the 
philosophy of medicine ; while in its turn the very foundation and basis of 
etiology is an accurate diagnosis of disease. Unless diseases are completely 
identified, all inquiry into causes is hopeless. Let us remember, for example, 
what utter confusion prevailed in our opinions as to causes and preventive 
measures at the time when typhus and typhoid fevers were considered identical, 
or when paroxysmal fever and the true yellow fever or vomito were thought to 
own a common cause. Any useful rules of prevention were simply impossible 
as impossible as at present in many of the diseases of nutrition, which, in 
the proper sense of the word, are yet undiagnosed. 

The advance of diagnosis has of late years been owing not merely to im- 
proved methods of observation, but to the more complete recognition of the 
great principle of the invariableness of causation. The sequence of phenomena 
in the diseased body proceeds with the same regularity and constancy as in 
astronomy or chemistry. Like causes always produce like effects. To suppose 
that from the same cause should proceed a sequence of phenomena so utterly 
distinct as those of typhus and typhoid fever, now seems incredible ; yet with 
a full, or at any rate a sufficient, knowledge of the phenomena, it was at one 
time almost universally believed that these two perfectly distinct diseases 
owned a common origin. At the present moment, the superficial resemblance 
between gout and rheumatism causes them to be put together in almost all 
systems of nosology, although, with the exception of the joints being affected, 
the diseases have almost nothing in common.* 

* Few things have done more harm in the study of etiology than the tendency, by hasty 
classification, to confound perfectly distinct things. At present classification must be looked 



444 ON THE PREVENTION OF DISEASES IN THE ARMY. 

In proportion as this great principle is still more constantly applied, and 
as our means of diagnosis advance, and consequently, causes are more satis- 
factorily investigated, methods of prevention will become obvious and precise. 
At. present they are very far from being so. In many cases they are founded 
on very imperfect observation ; and very frequently all that can be done is 
to apply general sanitary rules, without attempting to determine what are the 
special preventive measures which each disease requires. 

It is not necessary, however, that we should wait until the causation of 
any disease is perfectly understood. We must act, as in so many other affairs, 
on probability ; and endeavour to remove those conditions which, in the 
present state of our knowledge, seem to be the most likely causes of the 
disease. It may be that, in some cases, we may be attacking only subsidiary 
or minor causes, and may overlook others equally, or more, important. In 
some cases, indeed, we may overlook entirely the effective causes, and may be 
lighting with shadows. Still, even from mistakes, progress often arises in- 
deed, the difficult path of human knowledge is perhaps always through error. 

The term cause is applied by logicians to any antecedent which has a 
share in producing a certain sequence ; and it is well known that in many 
diseases two sets of causes are in operation one external, and one internal 
to the body (exciting, and predisposing). The investigation of the internal 
causes, which in some cases are necessary to the action of the external causes, 
is equally curious and intricate as that of the external causes, and in some 
respects is even more obscure ; but measures of prevention must deal with 
them, as well as with the external causes. 

In this chapter I can, of course, only venture to enumerate very briefly, 
and without discussion, what seem to be the best rules of prevention for the 
principal diseases of soldiers. To enter on the great subject of the prevention 
of disease generally, and to discuss all the complicated questions connected 
with causation, would demand a volume. 

I have endeavoured to preserve the simple and practical character which 
I have attempted to give to the other parts of this manual. 



SECTION I. 
THE SPECIFIC DISEASES* 

PAROXYSMAL FEVERS. 

External Cause. This is presumed to be putrescent, or at any rate, decom- 
posing vegetable matter (see pages 80 and 271), derived from a moist and 
putrescent soil, which is carried into the body by the medium of water or 
of air. 

If by water, a fresh source must be obtained. Well water is generally safe, 
but not always. Eain water may be unsafe, if the tanks are not clean. If 

upon merely as a convenient arrangement, not as expressing any real generalisation. The 
employment of such terms as miasmatic, zymotic, &c., is not only justifiable, but iiseful as a con- 
venient mode of classification ; but if such terms are allowed to carry more weight than should 
attach to them, and make us overlook the absolutely different and uninterchangeable character 
of the causes of the several diseases thus classed together for convenience, they can only be 
productive of harm. In respect both of causes and of preventive measures, we must at present 
study each disease separately, and no disease is worth studying scientifically as to causes and 
prevention until its diagnosis is quite certain. 

* In enumerating these diseases, I have followed simply a convenient order, and have only 
referred to the most common diseases of soldiers. 



YELLOW FEVER. 445 

a fresh source cannot be obtained, boiling, charcoal, and alum appear to be 
the best preventive measures. 

If the introduction be by air, and if the locality cannot be left, the most 
approved plan is elevation to at least 500 feet above the source of the poison 
in temperate climates; and 1000 to 1500 feet in the tropics, or higher still, 
if possible.* If this plan cannot be adopted, two points must be aimed at 
viz., to obviate local, and to avoid drifting malaria. Thorough subsoil 
draining ; filling up moist ground when practicable ; paving, or covering the 
ground with herbage kept closely cut, are the best plans for the first point. 
For the second, belts of trees, even walls, can be interposed ; or houses can 
be so built, as not to present openings towards the side of the malarious 
currents. 

The houses themselves should be raised above the ground on arches ; or, if 
wooden, on piles. Upper floors only should be occupied. The early morning 
air, for three hours after sunrise, should be avoided ; and next to this, night 
air. 

Internal Causes. The conformation, or structural condition, which permits 
the external cause to act, is evidently not equal in different individuals, or in 
different races ; but we are quite ignorant of its nature. It is not removed 
by attacks of the disease ; but, on the contrary, after repeated attacks of ague, 
a peculiar condition (of the nerves ?) is produced, in which the disease can be 
brought on by causes, such as cold, dietetic errors, Vhich could never have 
caused it in the first instance. The internal predisposition is greatly 
heightened by poor feeding, anaemia, and probably by scurvy. 

To remove the internal causes our only means at present are the adminis- 
tration of antiperiodics, especially quinine ; and good and generous living, 
with iron medicines. The use of flannel next the skin, and of warm clothing 
generally ; warm coffee, and a good meal before the time of exposure to the 
malaria, and perhaps moderate smoking (?) are the other chief measures. 
Wine in moderation is part of a generous diet ; but spirits are useless, and 
probably hurtful. 

Yellow Fever. 

External Cause. During the last few years the progress of inquiry has 
entirely disconnected true yellow fever from malaria, though yellowness of 
the skin is a symptom of some malarious fevers. Yellow fever is a disease of 
cities and of parts of cities, being often singularly localised, like cholera. In 
the West Indies it has repeatedly attacked a barrack (at Bermuda, Trinidad, 
Barbadoes, Jamaica), while no other place in the whole island was affected. 
In the same way (at Lisbon, Cadiz, and many other places) it has attacked 
only one section of a town, and occasionally, like cholera, only one side of a 
street. In the West Indies it has repeatedly commenced in the same part of 
a barrack. In all these points, and in its frequent occurrence in non-malarious 
places, in the exemption of highly malarious places, in its want of relation to 
moisture in the atmosphere, and its as evident connection with putrefying 
faecal and other animal matters, its cause differs entirely from malaria. 

If these points were not sufficient, the fact that the agent or poison which 
causes yellow fever is portable, can be carried and introduced among a com- 
munity,t and is increased in the bodies of those whom it attacks, indicates 

* It must be understood that these heights are assumed to be above a marsh. They will not 
secure from malaria from marshes, if situated at that or a much greater height. A marsh at 
Erzeroum is 6000 feet above sea-level ; one at Puebla, in New Mexico, ia 5000 feet ; both cause 
fevers. 

f Cases of the Bann, Eclair, Icarus, and several others. The late remarkable introduction of 
yellow fever from Havannah into St Nazaire, in France (near Brest), is most striking, and can- 



446 ON THE PREVENTION OF DISEASES IN THE ARMY. 

that the two agencies of yellow fever and paroxysmal fevers are entirely dis- 
tinct.* 

That great point being considered settled, the inquiry into the conditions 
of spread of the yellow fever becomes easier. The points to seize are its fre- 
quent and regular localisation and its transportation. The localisation at 
once disconnects it with any general atmospheric wave of poison; it is no 
doubt greatly influenced by temperature, and is worst when the temperature 
is above 70 Fahr. Though it will continue to spread in a colder air than 
was formerly supposed, it does not spread rapidly, and appears to die out, but 
even temperature does not cause it to become general in a place. 

The localising causes are evidently (cases of Lisbon, Gibraltar, West Indies, 
&c.), connected with accumulation of excreta round dwellings, and overcrowd- 
ing. Of the former there are abundant instances, and it is now coming out 
more and more clearly that, to use a convenient phrase, yellow fever, like 
cholera and typhoid fever, is a faecal disease. t And here we find the expla- 
nation of its localisation in the West Indian barracks in the olden time. 
Eound every barrack there were cess-pits, often open to sun and air. Every 
evacuation of healthy and sick men was thrown into perhaps the same places. 
Grant that yellow fever was somehow or other introduced, and let us assume 
(what is highly probable) that the vomited and fsecal matters spread the 
disease, and it is evident why, in St James' Barracks at Trinidad, or St Ann's 
Barracks at Barbadoes, men were dying by dozens, while at a little distance 
there was no disease. The prevalence on board ship is as easily explained : 
Granted that yellow fever is once imported into the ship, then the conditions 
of spread are probably as favourable as in the most crowded city ; planks and 
cots get impregnated with the discharges, which may even find their way 
into the hold and bilge. No one who knows how difficult it is to help such 
impregnation in the best hospitals on shore, and who remembers the imperfect 
arrangements on board ship for sickness, will doubt this. Then, in many 
ships, indeed in almost all in unequal degrees, ventilation is most imperfect, 
and the air is never cleansed. 

Overcrowding, and what is equivalent, defective ventilation, is another 
great auxiliary ; and Bone^ relates several striking instances. 

The question of the origin of yellow fever is one which cannot be con- 



not be explained away. It spread both from the ship, and, in one instance, from persons. (See 
" Aitken's Medicine," 3d edit. 1864 ; and " Report on Hygiene for 1862," in the Army 
Medical Report, by the author). The introduction into Rio in 1849, and into Monte Video, are 
still more striking cases of importation ; and lately a case very similar to that of St Nazaire has 
occurred at Swansea. (See Report by Dr Buchanan to the Medical Officer of the Privy Coun- 
cil, 1866.) 

* As more care is taken, the symptoms of the two diseases also are found to be diagnostic, 
and if it were not for the constant use of the unhappy term "remittent," the confusion would 
not have so long prevailed. 

An interesting instance of good diagnosis was made by the French at Vera Cruz in 1861. In 
the spring the vomito prevailed, and then disappeared. Some months afterwards, cases of a 
disease occurred so like yellow fever that they were at first taken to be that disease, but on a 
closer examination they were found to be clearly paroxysmal, and to yield to quinine. Rec. de 
Mem. de Med. Milit. 1863. 

f It has been stated in the American papers that the only good result of General Butler's 
rule at New Orleans was his iron rule as regards sewage conservancy. The city was never so 
clean as under his rule, and was never so free from yellow fever. At New Orleans it has been 
long known that the yellow fever, when it returns, commences at a certain spot, and that at the 
place where the sewage arrangements are the worst. 

J Yellow Fever, by G. F. Bone, Assist. -Surg. to the Forces. (The materials of this work 
are partly derived from the MSS. of the author's father, Inspector-General Bone.) 

For example, in the same barrack, the windward rooms have been quite healthy, and the 
leeward rooms attacked. Men in the latter have ceased to have cases of the disease when 
moved to the former locality. (See a good case in Bone, op. cit. p. 13.) 



YELLOW FEVER. 447 

sidered in this volume, and at present no preventive rules of importance can 
be drawn from the discussion.* 

The chief preventive measures for the external cause are these : 

1. The portability being proved, the greatest care should be taken to pre- 
vent introduction, either by sick men or by men who have left an infected 
ship. The case of the " Annie Marie " (see " Aitken's Medicine," and " Re- 
port on Hygiene" .in the Army Medical Report for 1862) has made it quite 
uncertain what period of time should have elapsed before an infected ship can 
be considered safe ; in fact, it probably cannot be safe until the cargo has 
been discharged and the ship thoroughly cleansed. Still it appears, that if 
men leaving an infected place or ship pass into places well ventilated and in 
fair sanitary condition, they seldom carry the disease. It appears necessary, 
also, to consider that the incubative period is longer than usually supposed, 
probably often fourteen or sixteen days. In the case of a ship it seems de- 
sirable not to consider danger over until at least twenty days have elapsed since 
the cure or death of the last case, and even at that time to thoroughly fumigate 
the ship with chlorine and nitrous acid before the cargo is touched. Men 
working on board such a ship should work by relays, so as not to be more 
than an hour at a time in the hold. 

In case men sick with yellow fever must be received into a barrack or hos- 
pital, they should be isolated, placed in the best ventilated rooms, or, better 
still, in separate houses, and all discharges mixed with sulphate or chloride of 
zinc and separately buried, not allowed to pass into any closet or latrine. 

2. The introduction by drinking-waters not being disproved, care should be 
taken that the possibility of this mode of introduction be not overlooked. 

3. Perfect sewerage and ventilation of any station would probably in great 
measure preserve from yellow fever, but in addition, in the yellow fever zone, 
elevation is said to have a very great effect, though the confusion between 
malarious fevers and the vomito renders the evidence on this point less certain, 
and the late introduction into Newcastle in Jamaica (4200 feet), and the 
frequent occurrence at Xalapa (4330 feet), as well as its prevalence on high 
points of the Andes (9000 feet) (A. Smith), show that the effect of mere eleva- 
tion has been overrated. Still, as a matter of precaution, all stations in yel- 
low-fever districts should be on elevations above 2000, and if possible 3000 feet. 

4. If an outbreak of yellow fever occurs in a barrack, it is impossible then 
to attempt any cleansing of sewers ; the only plan is to evacuate the barracks 
This has been done many times in the West Indies with the best effects. 
As a preventive measure, also, evacuation of the barracks and encampment at 
some little distance is a most useful plan, and was resorted to lately in De- 
merara with success. Before the barrack is re-occupied every possible means 
should be taken to cleanse it ; sewers should be thoroughly flushed ; walls 
scraped, lime-washed, and fumigated with nitrous acid. If a barrack cannot 



* As these opinions are different to some I formerly expressed in print, I think it necessary 
to state that the progress of inquiry has certainly modified considerably my views as regards 
both yellow fever and cholera. As regards the subject of contagion generally, I attempted to 
define the position of the question in a Report on the Early Cases of Cholera in London in 1848 
("Brit, and For. Med. Chir. Review," July 1849), but the question of the mode of transmission 
of cholera has been rendered more precise since that time. So also I should modify the 
statements in some articles on Yellow Fever and Cholera ("Brit, and For. Review," April 
1847, and "Brit, and For. Med. Chirurgical Review," 1848 and 1849), which connected too 
closely yellow and malarious fevers, or, at any rate, allowed too easily the origin of a true con- 
tagious and portable yellow fever from a malariohs fever. The question is still surrounded 
with difficulties, and there are many facts which are not easy to explain. But one thing seems 
to have been clearly made out, that whatever may be the origin of the poison of yellow fever, 
it is not of malarious birth. On this point see also the opinions of my colleague, Dr Maclean, 
as recorded in Dr Aitken's great work. 



448 ON THE PREVENTION OF DISEASES IN THE ARMY. 

be altogether abandoned, the ground floors should be disused. There are 
several instances in which persons living in the lowest storey have been 
attacked, while those above have escaped. 

5. In all buildings where sick are, or where yellow fever prevails, there 
should be constant fumigation with nitrous acid, which seems to be, as far as 
we know, the best disinfectant for this disease (page 84). 

6. If it appears on board ship, take the same precautions with regard to 
evacuations, bedding, &c. Treat all patients in the open air on deck, if the 
weather permit ; run the ship for a colder latitude ; land all the sick as soon 
as possible, and cleanse and fumigate the ship. 

Internal Cause. Eecent arrival in a hot country has been usually assigned 
as a cause, but the confusion between true yellow fever and severe febricula 
(ardent fever or causus) and malarious fevers, renders it uncertain how far this 
cause operates.* Still, as a matter of precaution, the present plan of three or 
four years' Mediterranean service before passing to the West Indies seems 
desirable. Different races possess the peculiar habit which allows the ex- 
ternal causes to act in very different degrees ; this is marked in the cases of 
negroes and mulattoes as compared with white men, but even in the Euro- 
pean nations it has been supposed that the northern are more subject than the 
southern nations. Of the sexes, women are said to be less liable than men. 

This predisposition is increased by fatigue,t and it is said, especially when 
combined with exposure to the sun ; by drinking, and by improper food of 
any kind which lowers the tone of the body. J 

No prophylactic medicine is known ; quinine is quite useless. 

Little, therefore, can be done to avert the internal causes, except care in 
not undergoing great fatigue at first, temperance, and proper food. The ex- 
ternal conditions are the most important to attend to. 

Cholera. 

External Cause. As in the case of yellow fever, we have no clue to the 
origin of cholera, and in some respects the propagation of the disease is very 
enigmatical. The way, for example, in which the disease has spread over vast 
regions, and has then entirely disappeared, and the mode in which it seems 
to develop and decline in a locality in a sort of regular order, are facts which 
we can only imperfectly explain. 

But as far as preventive measures are concerned, the researches of the last 
few years seem to have given us indications on which we are bound to act, 
though they are based only on a partial knowledge of the laws of spread of 
this poison. Thus it appears that the carriage of the disease by human inter- 
course, always strongly advocated by some writers, is now quite certain, || and 

* In the older time in Jamaica it was, however, always noticed that the worst attacks occurred 
in regiments during the first twenty-four, and especially the first twelve months. In thirteen 
epidemics in different regiments, four occurred in less than six months after landing, seven in 
less than twelve months, and two in less than twenty-four months. But it has been stated 
that residence in one place, though it may secure against the yellow fever of that, does not 
protect against the disease in another locality. It is much to be wished that all these asser- 
tions which abound in books should be tested by figures. That is the only way of coming to a 
decision. 

t Arnold, "Bilious Remittant Fever," 1840, p. 32. 

J Bone has given a receipt for making yellow fever. It is simply placing men in the West 
Indies under the old system, which seemed to include every imaginable sanitary error, and yellow 
fever would be, he affirmed, certainly produced. 

There is, of course, no doubt that the common autumnal cholera, however much it may 
resemble superficially the Indian cholera, is quite a separate disease. 

|| The observations in Northern Germany (Pettenkofer, Ackermann, and others) are very con- 
vincing on this point, but there are numerous cases in all countries. The late outbreaks of 1865 
have given other instances. 



CHOLERA. 449 

it seems also pretty clear that the singular erratic spread of cholera can be 
best accounted for in this way. This does not exclude other modes of trans- 
mission (which, indeed, are probable), but it gives us at once a preventive 
indication of value. The transmission of the disease by the choleraic stools, 
either when fresh or more probably when putrefying, by water or air (p. 60), 
is another fact which seems to be now proved, and by tracing out this mode 
of transmission we can account for many obscure points in the history of 
cholera. The stools being thrown upon the ground, especially if this is already 
foul with excretions, there undergo changes, and seem to give rise to an agent 
capable of causing the disease by transmission through the air. The evident 
connection of cholera with imperfect sewerage, and yet its absence from those 
parts of a town which are worse sewered even than the places it attacks, are 
best explained, as in the analogous case of enteric fever, by believing that the 
entrance of a specific agent is necessary, but that its further transmission is 
favoured by means of bad sewage conservancy. That the stools on the 
surface of the ground will dry up, and then, in the form of dust, may be 
blown for some distance, and may afterwards, in some way not yet clear (by 
respiration 1 or by being swallowed ?), be received into the body, and then 
act, is also highly probable, though precise evidence is yet wanting. 

That the condition of ground, and that, in particular, moist loose soil, is 
particularly favourable to the spread of cholera, has long been known, and 
that some influence is produced in this way on the specific poison, has been 
often suspected.* Professor Pettenkofer has particularly directed attention to 
this point, t and has lately summed up his views as follows. In the development 
of a cholera epidemic he believes that five conditions must come together : 

1. A locality and soil where men dwell, and which, to a certain depth, (that 
of the subsoil or ground water grund-wasser) is permeable by air and water. 

2. A coincident great alteration in the degree of moisture of this soil, which 
in alluvial soils corresponds to the changeable height of the ground water the 
dangerous time being the period of sinking of the water from an unusual height. 

3. The presence of an organic matter, viz., substances derived from excre- 
ments which spread in the ground capable of receiving them. 

4. The specific germ, the specific cholera poison, brought into such a 
locality by human intercourse ; the principal bearer of this poison being the 
alvine excretions of cholera and diarrhosal sick persons, and possibly also of 
sound persons coming from infected places. 

5. A disposition of the individual rendering him capable of being affected 
by cholera. 

These views are, in fact, a more precise and formal expression of opinions 
more or less clearly put forward by many writers. 

At the present moment, then, the preventive measures are almost the same as 
in typhoid fever, and the grand measure is destruction of the specific discharges. 

* I may perhaps refer here to a Review on Cholera I wrote for Sir John Forbes in 1847 
("British and Foreign Medical Review" for 1847, p. 338), for evidence on this point. 

f Die Verbreitungsart der Cholera. Miinchen, 1855, and pamphlet same year. Also. 
Zeitschrift fiir Biologic, band i. p. 322 (1865). 

It resembles typhoid fever, also, in being in temperate climates (Northern Germany and Eng- 
land) a late summer and early autumnal disease; i.e., occurring more commonly during the 
months when the heat of the earth is greatest, rain-fall most deficient, and air and water most 
likely to be impure. In 341 outbreaks cholera occurred as follows (Hirsch) : 

Per cent. 
1st three months of year, . . . . . 7 '33 

2d 24-05 

3d 45-16 

4th 23-46 

100-00 



450 ON THE PREVENTION OF DISEASES IN THE ARMY. 

1. The introduction of the poison is by air and water. The drinking 
water should be especially examined ; and even if nothing can be made out, it 
is a good plan, during a cholera epidemic, to change the source of supply ; or 
if this cannot be done, to boil, and then filter the water through charcoal ; 
permanganate of potash may be also put in before boiling, if we have that salt. 

2. Very free ventilation has sometimes evidently checked the disease, and 
instances are known in which two bodies of men nearly close together have 
suffered very unequally, the only discoverable difference being that one body 
had passing over them a current of air (which was not contaminated in any 
way), and in the other case the air was stagnant.* 

At the same time, as the wind carries the poison (dried choleraic stools ?) to 
some distance (probably a short one), it is now a rule in India, in cholera 
epidemics, not to march with or against the wind, but across it at right angles. 

3. The use of chlorine, nitrous acid, and sulphurous acid thrown into the 
air, should be freely tried in all buildings when cholera prevails in a station ; 
and one of these agents should be used after another, as we do not yet know 
which is most efficacious. 

4. As the disease can be introduced by men, and probably by the stools, it 
should be a rule that any men coming from an infected district should be kept 
by themselves, and should use entirely separate latrines for at least fifteen 
days, when it may be presumed all danger is over. Sulphate of iron or zinc 
should be mixed with the stools of all these men, whether healthy or not. It 
seems quite certain that persons with very slight attacks of cholera, so slight 
as to be merely diarrhoea or cholerine, as it has been termed, will carry the 
disease. There are several cases on record in which men apparently healthy, 
but coming from an infected place, have introduced the disease. In most cases 
this has only been done by crowds of dirty pilgrims, or coolies, or camp-fol- 
lowers. How this takes place is not known ; perhaps there have been really 
cases of slight cholera among them, which have been overlooked. It is worthy 
of remark, that in many cases in which the introduction of the disease by 
human intercourse cannot be doubted, a considerable period (twenty to thirty 
days) has elapsed between the arrival of the affected persons and the appear- 
ance of the disease in the locality. This certainly looks as if some decompo- 
sition must take place in the stools. 

In any case, when cholera appears in a place, and men are taken ill, the 
latrines they have used should be closed, disinfectants freely used in them, 
and, when the epidemic is over, they should be thoroughly cleaned out. The 
system of dry conservancy now coming into use in India, when every evacua- 
tion is at once removed, will no doubt do more than anything else to check 
outbreaks of cholera. The medical officer should, of course, inspect these 
places at all times, but especially during cholera, when it should be a regular 
part of his duty to visit the latrines at least twice daily. 

The disposal of the cholera stools should be carefully looked after. It 
appears probable that it is the putrefying stage of these which is most efficient 
in spreading the disease ; therefore they should be mixed with perchloride of 
iron, or chloride or sulphate of zinc, or carbolic acid or the carbolates, and 
buried deeply, t No experiments have yet been made on the relative efficiency 
of these agents ; Pettenkofer recommends especially sulphate of iron. 

* The effect of ventilation, and want of it, was shown in the case of the Kurrachee epidemic, so 
ably described by the late Mr Thorn (86th Regiment). See review by the author in the British 
and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical Review, July 1848, page 62. See especially, as far as ventilation 
is concerned, page 69, and page 83, where the differences in causes, which led to the unequal 
prevalence of the disease in three regiments, are discussed. 

t On looking back to the epidemics of cholera I saw in India, I can perceive many points 
which are capable of explanation if the putrefying stools are the cause. As no credit was 



CHOLERA. 451 

5. As in the case of yellow fever, if cholera appears in any place, the barrack 
must be evacuated, and the troops moved a short distance and put under 
canvas. This has been done with the best effect both in the hot and rainy 
seasons in India and elsewhere. The tents should be well ventilated, and 
the men must not be crowded nor fatigued. In four or five days the camp 
should be struck, and moved two or three miles off, and this must be con- 
tinued till the disease disappears. In choosing ground for camps, a good 
elevated spot should be selected ; damp and low soils should never be taken. 
The effect of elevation has been long known, and was especially pointed out 
in London, in 1849, by the Registrar-General. The diminution in the num- 
ber of cholera cases from the Thames level to the higher lands was very regu- 
lar. All the low levels have more chance of impurity of both ground and air. 
The same point has been noticed at Hamburg (1832), Konigsberg and Oxford, 
but it is not invariable (Paris, Zurich, and Mexico). If a river is in front, it 
should be crossed. Of course, a good water supply is indispensable.* 

A camp once left should not be returned to until it has been thoroughly 
cleaned, any more than in marching, a regiment should occupy ground pre- 
viously used by another regiment, t 

6. Men sick from cholera are also best treated in well-ventilated tents ; 
cholera wards and hospitals do not answer. Even in cold countries, up 
to the end of October or the middle of November, tents can be used if 
properly warmed. In India it should be a rule to treat every cholera patient 
in a tent. 

Internal Causes. General feebleness of health gives no predisposition, nor 
is robust health a safeguard ; some even have thought that the strongest men 
suffer most. Great fatigue, and especially if continued from day to day, greatly 
predisposes ; of this there seems no doubt. : No influence has yet been traced 
to diet, nor does it appear that insufficient diet has any great effect, though 
there is some slight evidence that scurvy increases the mortality, and perhaps 

attached at that time to the notion of the stools carrying the poison, no trouble was taken in their 
disposal. Beddings, clothes, floors, furniture, were saturated with them, and were too often 
very imperfectly cleaned. 

* In all large Indian military stations placed near great towns, spots are now selected in the 
neighbourhood where the men can be encamped, and kept ready as to water supply, &c., so 
that at the first alarm the men may move out. This should be done everywhere. The little 
trouble thus caused is well repaid by the saving of life and discomfort. Railways will greatly 
aid the removal of the men. But it is well to observe that on the railways themselves the 
latrines may be a means of widely propagating cholera if great care be not taken. 

+ Great importance has been attached to the meteorological conditions attending outbreaks of 
cholera ; they do not appear to be very important, except in two or three cases. 

1. Temperature. A high temperature favours the spread by increasing the putrefaction of 
the stools, and by augmenting generally the impurity of the air. When cholera has prevailed 
at a low temperature (it has been severe at a temperature below freezing), the drinking water 
has possibly been the cause. 

2. Pressure has no effect. The old observation of Front, that the air is heavier in cholera 
epidemics, has never been confirmed. 

3. Moisture in Air. Combined with heat, this seems an accessory cause of importance, pro- 
bably by aiding transmission. Moisture in the ground has always been recognised as an aiding 
cause of great importance. 

4. Dry ness of Air seems decidedly to check it. 

5. Rain sometimes augments, sometimes checks it. This, perhaps, depends on the amount 
of rain. A very heavy rain is a great purifier. 

6. Movement of Air. It is certainly worst in the stagnant atmospheres, as in the cases of all 
the specific poisons. 

7. Electricity is not known to have any effect. This was particularly examined by Mr Lamont 
in Munich, one of the most celebrated physical philosophers of our time, but with entirely nega- 
tive results. 

8. Ozone has no effect, either in its presence or absence. (Schultze, Voltotine, De Wethe, 
Lamont, Strambio. ) 

J There are many instances of the effects of long marches. See Orton, Lorimer, and Thoni, 
quoted in the Review just referred to ("Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev.," July 1848, pp. 85-87). 

2 F 2 



452 ON THE PREVENTION OF DISEASES IN THE ARMY. 

the predisposition.* The strictest temperance does not preserve from attacks ; 
but every one agrees that spirits are no protection, and that debauchery 
increases liability. 

Of pre-existing diseases, it has been supposed that cardiac affections and 
pulmonary emphysema predispose ; the evidence is very unsatisfactory. 

Diarrhoea predisposes, and any causes which lead to diarrhoea, especially im- 
pure water, dietetic errors, &c., should be carefully looked after. 

With regard to prophylactic measures (except in respect to proper diet, free 
ventilation, and pure water), nothing has been yet made out. Quinine has 
been recommended, and should certainly be given, especially in malarious 
countries, as it is a fact that the choleraic poison and malaria may act together, 
and even give a slight periodical character to choleraic attacks, which is never 
seen in non-malarious districts, and is therefore merely grafted on cholera. 
Peppers, spices, &c., have been used ; but I am not aware of any good evi- 
dence. All diarrhoea should be immediately checked, and this is well known 
to be the most important point connected with the prevention of the internal 
causes. The universal order in India is, that any man going twice in one 
day to the latrine should report himself ; and non-commissioned officers are 
usually stationed at the latrines to watch the men. The reason of this rule 
should be fully explained to the men. In two attacks of cholera in India, I 
found it almost impossible to get the men to report themselves properly ; the 
slight diarrhoea of early cholera is so painless that they think nothing of it.t 

I append Sir Hugh Eose's order, which is now in force in India : 

General Order ly Sir Hugh Hose, Commander-in- Chief in India. 

" HEAD- QUARTERS, SIMLA, 1th April 1862. 

"1. Officers commanding divisions, stations, &c., will make themselves 
thoroughly acquainted with the ground in the neighbourhood of their stations 
to the extent of twenty miles, with a view to at once selecting sites for encamp- 
ments in the event of cholera appearing, and care will be taken to ensure these 
places being always kept in a fit state for occupation by troops, and with a 
sufficient supply of wholesome water available on each. 

"2. The officers of the Quartermaster-General's department of each division 
will prepare a plan of the required extent of country, with the different en- 
camping grounds marked on it, so that when the disease approaches, measures 
may be at once taken to place the troops under canvas without delay. 

"3. On the outbreak of cholera in an epidemic form, either in neighbouring 
villages or cantonments, officers commanding stations will be prepared to move 
the troops into the selected camp on the shortest notice. 

"4. As soon as any case of cholera is reported on the station, the troops will 
be moved into camp, and no unfavourable condition of the weather is to prevent 
this movement being carried out. 

" 5. The force will be broken up into as many detachments as the number 
of the medical officers will admit, allowing one to each party. Should the 
medical staff be insufficient to afford such medical aid to the several detach- 
ments, experienced medical subordinates will be placed in charge of the smaller, 
or less distant parties. 

" 6. Officers commanding stations are authorised to call directly for aid 
from other stations, divisions, or districts free from cholera. 

* For some evidence as to scurvy, see Pearce and Shaw on the cholera of the jail at Calicut. 
--Madras Medical Journal, July 1863. 

f- I have taken several points from Mr Dickinson's useful little pamphlet on the "Hygiene 
of Indian Cholera." 1863. 



CHOLERA. 453 

" 7. The sick, labouring under other diseases than cholera, will move with 
the force and share the benefit of removal from the choleraic atmosphere. 

"8. It must be insisted on, that all discharges from stomach and bowels of 
cholera patients be instantly removed and buried in pits. 

" 9. Strong deodorants are to be thrown into the receiving vessels, as well 
as into the pits, latrines, and privies. 

"10. Should cholera follow the troops, they will be moved short distances, 
at right angles, if possible, to the prevalent wind and track of the disease, 
every second or third day, care being taken that the marches in no way fatigue 
the men. 

"11. The breaking out of cholera in a regiment or at a station is on no 
account to cause the suspension of the soldiers' daily amusements and occu- 
pations, care being taken that the latter in no way fatigue them ; and com- 
manding officers will use their utmost exertions to develop any recreation or 
employment of which the effect is to keep the men's minds in their normal 
state. 

" 12. It often occurs that soldiers on a visitation of cholera indulge in the 
use of spirituous liquors, in the belief that they are a preventive against the 
disease. The medical authorities unanimously condemn this supposed remedy 
as a certain promoter of the disease ; commanding officers are therefore en- 
joined to use their utmost endeavours to prevent so baneful a practice. 

"13. One of the several cholera antidotes is the early treatment of pre- 
monitory symptoms, of which looseness of the bowels is a principal one ; 
commanding officers are therefore requested to give the most precise orders on 
the subject, and to cause all men affected by premonitory symptoms to be 
placed at once in a premonitory ward. 

"14. The troops are not to return to cantonments until all traces of the 
cholera shall have disappeared from the neighbourhood, either amongst the 
European or native population. The barracks and hospitals will be thoroughly 
fumigated, the walls whitewashed, and the doors and window-frames painted, 
before they are re-occupied. 

"15. The men will be supplied with hot tea and coffee before going out in 
the morning ; they will invariably wear flannel belts, and all precautions must 
be taken to prevent their remaining in wet or damp clothes. 

" 16. The Commander-in-Chief feels persuaded that all officers share his 
feeling, that when cholera breaks out in a station, they should be with their 
regiments, and at their posts. 

" HEAD QUARTERS, SIMLA, 2Bd June 1862. 

" In continuation of G. O. C. C. of the 7th April last, the Commander-in* 
Chief is pleased to publish the following rules, which have received the sanc- 
tion of Government : 

" U^, On the occasion of an outbreak of cholera, such changes in the diet, 
and such other medical comforts, are to be allowed to the sick as the Deputy- 
Inspector- General of the circle or other principal medical officer may deem 
expedient. 

" 2d, Wood fires, if considered necessary, are to be maintained to the wind- 
ward of camp. 

" 3d, The railway is to be used for the conveyance of the troops through 
an infected tract. 

" th, In wet weather cots are to be carried for all the men, to prevent 
their sleeping on damp ground. 

"5//?, On the requisition of medical authorities, commanding officers arp 



454 ON THE PREVENTION OF DISEASES IN THE ARMY. 

to indent on the nearest magazine for such additional camp equipage as may 
be considered necessary. The indents to be countersigned by the Deputy- 
Inspector-General of the circle and the officer commanding the station. 

" 6th, The Deputy- Inspectors-General of Hospitals being the officers 
specially appointed by Government to judge of the extent which the recom- 
mendations of medical officers should be complied with, the Commander-in- 
Chief desires that their opinion may, whenever practicable, be obtained. In 
the event of their absence from the station, the opinion of the senior medical 
officer may be acted upon. 

" By order of his Excellency the Command er-in-Chief, 

"E. B. JOHNSON, Lieut-Colonel, 
" Offg. Adjutant- General of the Army." 



Typhas Ejcanthematicus (Spotted Typhus). 

External Cause. An animal poison, origin unknown, but communicable 
from person to person, probably through the excretions of the skin and lungs 
floating in the air. Not known to be communicated by water. Its spread 
and its fatality are evidently connected with overcrowding and debility of 
body from deficient food. That it can be produced by overcrowding is yet 
uncertain.* The preventive measures may be thus shortly summed up : 
Adopt isolationt of patients ; use the freest ventilation (5000 to 6000 cubic 
feet per head per hour or more) ; evolve nitrous acid and chlorine fumes ; 
thoroughly fumigate with sulphurous acid, heat (to 240 Fahr.), wash, and 
expose to air all bedding (including mattresses) and clothes. This last point 
is extremely important. In fact, it may be said that, for the prevention as 
well as treatment of typhus, the cardinal measures are abundance of pure air 
and pure water. Whenever practicable, treat all typhus patients in tents, or 
wooden huts with badly-joined walls, not in hospitals. Fumigate tents and 
scrape and limewash huts, and remove earth from time to time from the 
iloors. A number of typhus patients should never be aggregated ; they must 
be dispersed ; and if cases begin to spread in an hospital, clear the ward, and 
'then, if the disease continues, the hospital itself; then wash with chloride of 
lime, and then limewash or scrape walls and floors, and thoroughly fumigate 
with nitrous acid. It has been often shown that even exposure to weather, 
bad diet, and insufficient attendance, are less dangerous to the patients than 
^he aggregation of cases of typhus (see especially p. 310). 

Internal Causes. A special condition of body is necessary, as in the case of 
smallpox, and one attack protects to a great extent from another. The nature 
of the internal condition is unknown ; but general feebleness from bad diet, 
overwork, exhaustion, and especially the scorbutic taint, greatly increase the 
intensity of the disease in the individual, and perhaps aid its spread. These 
conditions, then, must be avoided. But the strongest and best health is no 
guarantee against an attack of typhus. 



* For some evidence on this point, see Murchison on Fevers, and a paper in the "Medical 
Times and Gazette," July 1859. 

f* By the term isolation, I imply the placing a patient in a separate building, not in another 
room in the same building ; in the case of smallpox, typhus, and scarlet fever, this partial 
isolation, though sometimes successful, cannot be depended upon. If a room must be chosen 
in the same building, choose the top story, if a good room can be there found. 



PLAGUE AND TYPHOID FEVER. 455 

Bubo or Oriental Plague (Pali Plague in India)/'' 

The preventive measures should "be the same as in typhus, to which this 
disease shows great analogy. The history of the plague at Cairo (from which 
it has been now banished for many years, simply by improving the ven- 
tilation of the city),t and the disappearance, after sanitary improvements, 
of the Pali plague in India, and its recurrence on the cessation of preventive 
measures, show that, like typhus, the bubo plague is easily preventible. Eleva- 
tion, as in so many other specific diseases, has a considerable effect; the 
village of Alum Dagh, near Constantinople (1640 feet above the sea), and 
freely ventilated, has never been attacked ; the elevated citadel of Cairo has 
generally been spared, and when Barcelona was attacked, the elevated citadel 
also escaped. 

Typhoid or Enteric Fever. 

External Cause. A poison of animal origin ; one mode of propagation is 
by the intestinal discharges of persons sick of the disease ; other modes of 
origin and transmission are not disproved. There is doubtless a frequent 
transmission of the disease by the diarrhoea of mild cases which are often not 
diagnosed. There is some evidence that persons considered convalescent may 
carry the disease, but it is possible that this may have been owing to badly 
washed clothes. The mode of entrance into the body is by air and water. (See 
pages 57 and 100.) As means of arresting the disease, isolate patients; receive 
all evacuations (faeces and urine) into vessels strictly kept for one sick person ; 
place chloride or sulphate of zinc, carbolate of lime and magnesia, &c., in the 
vessels ; never empty any evacuation into a closet, sewer, or cesspool ; bury 
it several feet deep, and mix it well with earth. Fumigate, and heat to 240 
Fahr., all clothes and bedding. Use nitrous acid fumes in the wards. As 
means of prevention, attend especially to the disposal of sewage : although 
the origin of typhoid merely from putrefying non-typhoid sewage is not con- 
sidered at present to be probable, it is not disproved, and it is certain that 
the disease spreads by the agency of sewers and faecal decomposition. A 
single case of typhoid fever should at once be held to prove that something 
is wrong with the mode of getting rid of the excretions. 

Internal Causes. As a first attack preserves in great measure from a second, 
a peculiar condition of body is as essential as in smallpox ; and looking to the 
special effect produced on Peyer's patches, and to the fact that at the period of 
life when these patches naturally degenerate, the susceptibility to typhoid 
fever materially lessens, or even ceases, it seems possible that the internal 
cause or necessary second condition is the existence of these patches, the 
structures in which are brought into an abnormal state of activity by the 
direct or indirect action of the poison on them. The other internal causes are 
anything which causes gastro-intestinal disorder, such as bad water, and gene- 
ral feebleness. 

* The Pali plague (Malia Murree), which was most common in Rajpootana, was evidently pro- 
pagated by the filthy habits of the inhabitants (see Ranken and others), and was some years ago 
almost entirely got rid of by sanitary measures. Subsequently, these were neglected, and the 
disease returned. It is now, I believe, again greatly lessened. Hirsch has pointed out that the 
Pali plague differs from the Egyptian plague, in having a marked lung disease, and in this it 
resembles the black death of the fourteenth century, with which Hirsch, in fact, considers it 
identical. 

f Stamm, in Pappenheim's " Beitrage," 1862-3, p. 80. The measures adopted in Cairo were 
levelling some hillocks, which stopped the air from blowing over the city, filling up some 
marshes, and adopting a better mode of burial. The peculiar sepulture customs of the Copts 
have indeed even been assigned as the sole cause of the origin of plague. 

J Gietl. Die Ursachen der enterischen Typhus in Miinchen, 1865, pp. 74 and 94. 



456 ON THE PREVENTION OF DISEASES IN THE ARMY. 



Relapsing Fever. 

No preventive measures have been yet pointed out, to my knowledge, but 
the occurrence of the disease in times of famine seems to indicate that feeble- 
ness and inanition are necessary internal causes. 

Bilious Remittent Fevers. 

Under this vague term, a disease or diseases, which in many points are like 
relapsing fever, but yet are not identical (Marston), have been described as 
occurring especially in Egypt (Griesinger), and in the Levant generally. It 
has been lately described by Marston at Malta. The exact causes are not 
known ; but in some of the writings of the older army surgeons, the fevers 
which are produced by foul camps (in addition to typhoid) appear to have a 
close resemblance to the bilious remittent fevers of the Mediterranean. They 
appear to be connected with bad sanitary conditions, but their exact causation 
is not clear. 

Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis. 

This disease which has been occasionally noticed in France, and especially 
among soldiers for the last forty years, has within the last few years ap- 
peared in several parts of Germany, and a few cases among civilians have 
occurred in England. It seems to depend on a specific agent, but very little 
is yet known about it. It does not appear to be contagious. No preventive 
measures can be at present suggested. 

The Eruptive Fevers. 

Smallpox is guarded against in the army by repeating vaccination in the 
case of recruits, and by occasional re-vaccination of all the men in a regi- 
ment. In Dr Balfour's statistical reports, great attention is always paid to 
this important point, and the evidence from foreign armies prove the neces- 
sity of careful re- vaccination. 

If the disease does occur, the use of chlorine, iodine, and nitrous acid 
thrown up into the air, should not be forgotten, in addition to all usual 
measures of isolation (in separate buildings) and sanitary appliances. 

In the cases of scarlet fever and measles, nothing definite is known with 
regard to prevention, except that a good sanitary condition seems to lessen 
their intensity, and probably their spread. The evidence with regard to 
belladonna in scarlet fever is contradictory, but on the whole unfavourable. 
When the disease is actually present, fumigations, as in smallpox, should be 
used. 

The most difficult case is when either measles or scarlet fever appears on 
board-ship, and especially if children are on board. If the weather permit, 
the best plan is then to treat all patients on the upper deck under an 
awning. If this cannot be done (and scarlet-fever patients must not be 
exposed to cold), they must be isolated as much as possible, and the place 
constantly fumigated. Both in scarlet fever and smallpox there is some evi- 
dence to show that the incubative period may be very long.* 

Perhaps, in the present state of evidence, it might be desirable to try the 
prophylactic effects of belladonna on board-ship, directly the first case occurs. 

* See a case by Bryson (Trans. Soc. Science Assoc. 1862, p. 677), for a case in which the 
incubative period of smallpox was thirty-one days. In scarlet fever it is sometimes even longer. 



ERYSIPELAS AND HOSPITAL GANGRENE. 457 

Erysipelas (Hospital or Epidemic). 

External Cause. It is well known that in the surgical wards of hospitals 
erysipelas occasionally occurs, and then may "be transmitted from patient to 
patient. The exact causes of its appearance have not been made out, but 
it is evidently connected with overcrowding and impure air. Moisture of 
the floors, causing constant great humidity of air, has also been supposed to 
aid it. It is much more common in fixed hospitals than in tents and huts, 
and indeed is exceedingly rare in the two latter cases. The agencies or 
agent can scarcely be supposed to be other than putrefying organic matter 
and pus cells passing into and accumulating in the air. They or it would 
appear to be really generated during the process of suppuration of wounds, 
and at present the production of a transmissible agent in this way is one 
of the best examples we have of the origin of a contagion de novo. It is 
remarkable that pus cells derived from purulent sputa do not cause erysi- 
pelas in medical wards, but this may be from a want of open wounds 
to give the necessary internal condition. 

"When hospital erysipelas has once appeared in a ward, nothing will avail 
except complete clearance of the ward, scraping the floors, and often the walls, 
washing with chloride of lime, and then with solution of caustic lime, and 
thorough fumigation with chlorine and nitrous acid alternately. The erysi- 
pelatous cases should be placed in well-ventilated tents. If this cannot be 
done, then nitrous acid and chlorine fumigations must be constantly used in 
the wards, charcoal trays be placed round the bed of the erysipelatous patient, 
and excessive ventilation employed. It may be suggested whether suppu- 
rating wounds could not be covered with a light charcoal layer, so that the 
air could only act on it after filtering through the charcoal. 

Considering the undoubted beneficial influence of tent life, it may be a 
question whether, even in civil life, hospitals which possess gardens should 
not, during the summer, treat their surgical cases with suppurating wounds 
in the tents.* 

Of course, extreme care in conservancy of wards or tents, the immediate 
removal of all dressings, great care in dressing wounds, so that neither by 
instruments, sponges, lint, or other appliances, pus cells or molecular organic 
matter shall be inoculated, are matters of familiar hospital hygiene. 

Internal Causes. Nothing, I believe, is known on this point, except that 
there must be some abrasion or wound of the surface or of the passages near 
the surface, as the vagina or throat. The erysipelas commences at the point 
of abrasion. If there is no open wound, the atmospheric impurity seems to 
have no bad effect on the persons who are exposed to it, but it would be 
interesting to know if some forms of internal disease are not produced. Is it 
possible that some forms of tonsillitis and diphtheritic-like inflammation of 
the throat may be caused in this way, although there is no solution of con- 
tinuity ? 

Hospital Gangrene. 

Almost the same remarks apply to hospital gangrene as to erysipelas. One 
of the most important facts which has been pointed out by many writers, 
and which has been thoroughly proved by the American and the Italian Wars, 
is that perfectly free ventilation prevents hospital gangrene. 

Hammond, the late Surgeon-General of the. United States Army, declares t 

* See Hammond's Hygiene, 1863 ; Kraus' Das Kranken nnd Zerstremmgs-System, 1861 ; and 
a Report on Hygiene, by the author, in the " Army Medical Report" for 1862, for the effects 
of tents on erysipelas and hospital gangrene. 

t Hygiene, p. 397. 



458 ON THE PREVENTION OF DISEASES IN THE ARMY. 

that only one instance has come to his knowledge in which hospital gangrene 
has originated in a wooden pavilion hospital, and not one which has occurred 
in a tent. Kraus also, from the experience of the Austrians in 1859, states 
that it never could be discovered that gangrene originated in a tent. On the 
contrary, cases of gangrene at once commenced to improve when sent from 
hospital wards into tents. On the other hand, the tenacity with which the 
organic matters causing the gangrene adhere to walls is well known. 

The measure to be adopted in wards when hospital gangrene occurs, and 
the ward cannot be at once evacuated, are the same as for erysipelas.* It is 
not necessary to do more than allude to the undoubted transference by dirty 
sponges, &c. 

SECTION II. 

VARIOUS NON-SPECIFIC DISEASES. 
Dysentery and Diarrhoea. 

At present there is no evidence that the dysentery arising from various 
causes has different anatomical characters, or runs a different course, except 
perhaps in the case of malarious dysentery. The chief causes are : 

1. Impure Water (pages 50-54). Both Annesley and Twining have 
directed attention to this cause, in. their accounts of Indian dysentery. It is 
scarcely possible, that, with common attention, this cause should not be dis- 
covered and removed. 

2. Impure Air. The production of dysentery and diarrhoaa from the effluvia 
of putrefying animal substances, is an opinion as old as Cullen, and probably 
older; and there seems little doubt of its correctness. The gases and vapours 
from sewers and from sewage on land also will, in some persons, cause it (pages 
99, et seq.) ; and also effluvia from the foul bilge-water of ships.t On the 
other hand, very disagreeable effluvia from many animal substances, as in the 
case of bone-burners, fat-boilers, &c., do not seem to cause diarrhoea. In 
India there appears to be a decided relation between the prevalence of dysen- 
tery and overcrowding and want of ventilation in barracks ; massing a large 
number of men together is certainly an accessory cause of great weight.^ 

The air from very foul latrines has caused dysentery in numerous cases. 
Cringle, and many other army surgeons, record cases. In war, this is one 
of the most common causes. The occasional production of dysentery from 
sewage applied to land, seems to me to be proved by Clouston's observations 
on the causes of the attack of dysentery in the Cumberland Asylum (" Medical 
Times and Gazette," June 1865). Still sewage matter has been often applied 
in this way without bad effects (see page 327). In Dr Clouston's case the 
sewage was 300 yards from the ward where the dysentery occurred. Calm 
and nearly stagnant nights, or with a gentle movement of air from the sewage 
towards the ward, were the conditions which preceded most of the attacks. 

* With regard to pyaemia, observations show that one of the external causes is foetid organic 
emanations. Spencer Wells (" Med. Times and Gazette," 1852) states, that in 1859 the mor- 
tality from pyaemia was great in some wards over a dissecting room. On removing all the cases 
after operation to the opposite side of the building, pyaemia almost disappeared. Other similar 
cases are on record. 

f Fonssagrives (Traite d'Hygiene Navale, p. 60) records a good case of this kind. It com- 
menced after a gale at sea had stirred up the bilge, and on clearing it out, the attack ceased. 

J Wood on the Health of European Soldiers in India, 1864, p. 45, et seq. 

Sir James M'Grigor, Vignes (who gives many cases from the French experience in the 
Peninsula), Chomel, Copland ; see also the "Diet, des Sciences Med." Art. Dysenteric. D'Arcet 
(" Ann. d'Hygiene," vol. xii. p. 390) records a good case, in which a whole regiment was affected 
in the Hanoverian war, from having used too long the same trench as a latrine. The disease 
disappeared when another was dug. 



DYSENTERY AND DIARRHCF.A. 459 

Of all the organic effluvia, those from the dysenteric stools appear to be 
the worst. Some evidence has been given to show that dysentery arising 
from a simple cause (as from exposure to cold and wet), when it takes on the 
gangrenous form, and the evacuations are very foetid, produces dysentery in 
those who use the latrines, or unclean closets, into which such gangrenous 
evacuations are passed. If correct, this is a most interesting point, as it seems 
to show the origin of a communicable poison de novo. Possibly, in all these 
cases the effluvia, or organic matters, or particles disengaged from the putre- 
fying evacuations, act at once on the anus, and the disease then spreads up 
by continuity. 

There is some reason, also, to think that retaining dysenteric stools in hos- 
pital wards spreads the disease ; and, perhaps, in this case, the organic par- 
ticles floating up may be swallowed, and then act on the mucous membrane 
of the colon. In the epidemic of dysentery in Sweden in 1859, there was 
good evidence to show that it spread by means of the diarrhoeal and dysen- 
teric evacuations.* 

In addition to removal of the sources of all these effluvia, fumigations with 
nitrous acid, and with chlorine, should be practised in all dysenteric wards 
(see page 86); as in the case of typhoid fever, the stools must be mixed with 
disinfectants, and immediately removed from the wards and buried. 

3. Improper Food. Any excess in quantity, and many alterations in quality 
(especially commencing decomposition in the albuminates, and perhaps, the 
rancidity of the fatty substances) cause diarrhoea, which will pass into dysen- 
tery (see the chapter on FOOD). But the most important point in this direc- 
tion is the production of scorbutic dysentery. A scorbutic taint plays a far 
more important part in the production of dysentery than is usually imagined ; 
and there is now no doubt that the fatal dysentery, which formerly was so 
prevalent in the West Indies, was of this kind. Much of the Indian dysen- 
tery is also often scorbutic. 

4. Exposure to Cold and Wet. Exposure to cold, especially after exertion, 
and extreme variations of temperature, have been assigned as the chief cause 
of dysentery by numerous writers ;t great moisture has been assigned by some 
writers (Twining, Annesley, Griesinger) as a cause ; and great dryness of the 
air by others (Mouat) ; while a third class of observers have considered the 
amount of moisture as quite immaterial. 

Hirsch,| after summing up the evidence with respect to temperature with 
great care, decides, that sudden cold after great heat is merely a "causa 
occasionalis," which may aid the action of the more potent causes of dysentery. 
This, probably, is the true reading of the facts. The amount of moisture in 
the atmosphere would appear to be a matter of no moment. 

Although we cannot assign its exact causative value, the occurrence of chill 
is, of course, as a matter of prudence, to be carefully guarded against ; and 

* "British and Foreign Med.-Chir. Rev." Jan. 1866, p. 140. 

f A few only can be noted : Stoll, Zimmermann, Huxham, Durandeau, Willan, Irvine, James 
Johnson, Annesley, Bampfield, Morehead, Vignes, Fergusson, &c. Fergusson says, " True 
dysentery is the offspring of heat and moisture ; of moist cold in any shape after excessive heat. 
Nothing that a man can put into him would ever give him true dysentery." 

J Handbuch der Historisch-Geograph. Pathol. band ii. p. 234. 

The so-called " hill diarrhoea," which was formerly prevalent on some of the hill sanitaria 
in India, especially on the spurs of the Himalayas, has been attributed to the effect of cold 
and moisture, and sudden changes of temperature. But, as remarked by Dr Alexander Grant, 
many hill stations have these atmospheric conditions, without having any hill diarrhoea. I 
learn, from some gentlemen, who have paid much attention to this subject, that there is great 
reason to suppose the hill diarrhoea to be entirely unconnected with either elevation or climate. 
In some cases it has been clearly caiised by bad water ; in other cases, its exact causes remain 
unexplained. Of late years it has lessened in amount at all stations, and will probably dis- 
appear. 



460 ON THE PREVENTION OF DISEASES IN THE ARMY. 

especially chills after exertion. It is when the body is profusely perspiring, 
and is then exposed to cold, that dysentery is either produced, or that other 
causes are aided in their action. In almost all hot countries, chilling of the 
abdomen is considered particularly hurtful, and shawls and waist-bands 
(Cummerbund of India) are usually worn.* 

5. Malaria has been assigned as another cause; and it was noticed, especially 
by the older writers, that the dysentery was then often of the kind termed, 
" Dysenteria Incruenta ;" the stools being copious, serous, and with little 
blood; in fact, a state somewhat resembling cholera. 

Very great difference of opinion has prevailed in regard of this opinion. t 
Possibly the " malarious dysentery " is in part connected with the use of 
marsh water. More evidence is desirable, certainly, with regard to this point ; 
but it seems probable, from the observations of Annesley and Twining, that 
marsh water has an effect in this direction. 

Liver Diseases (Indian). 

The production of diseases of the liver is so obscure, and so many states of 
hepatic disorder are put together under the term " hepatitis," that it is im- 
possible to treat this subject properly without entering fully into the question 
of causes. But, as this could not be done here, I must content myself with 
a short summary of the preventive measures which appear to be of the greatest 
importance. 

I have long been convinced that many cases of hyperseinia, bilious conges- 
tion, and enlargement of the liver, with increase of cell-growth and connective 
tissue (but without tendency to abscess), and enlargement and partial fatty 
degeneration of the liver cells, are caused simply by diet.;}: I had a good oppor- 
tunity of observing this on landing in India in 1842 with an European regi- 
ment, and as the experience of more than twenty years has made me certain 
that the observation was correct, I venture to repeat here the conclusion I 
then came to as to the origin of some kinds of liver disease. 

" The diet of European soldiers in India is, as a general rule, far too rich 
and stimulating ; hot curries, carelessly made by native cooks, are used several 
times every week for dinner, and vegetables in many places are scarce, or of 
indifferent quality. Soldiers often refer the origin of their complaint at once 
'D their diet, and, to my own knowledge, many men have supplied the place 
of the curries by rations purchased out of their own scanty funds. It often 
happens that an European regiment, quartered with one or two companies of 
English artillery, will show a much greater percentage of sickness ; the habits 
of both corps are the same with one exception ; artillerymen being in small 
bodies, are easily looked after by their officers, and they are generally more 
careful about their diet. Again, married men who are not in a mess are 
always more exempt from both dysentery and hepatitis than single men. If 
this is not attributable to their food being better cooked the circumstance is 
inexplicable. It is an extraordinary thing that, out of 150 married men in 

* It is a remarkable circumstance, that in temperate climates the most common months for 
dysenteric epidemics are the hot months June to September. Taking North America, and 
Northern and Western Europe, Hirsch has assembled 546 outbreaks. Of these, 176 occurred in 
summer ; 228 in summer and autumn ; 107 in autumn ; only 16 in spring ; and 19 in winter. 
This does not look as if cold had any effect. The heat of summer is far more influential. 

f- The very varying opinions are given very fully by Hirsch. Morehead's great authority is 
altogether against the presumed action of malaria ; but, possibly here, as in many other cases, 
we shall have to draw a complete distinction between malarious and non-malarious dysentery. 

J In the great and admirable works of Ranald Martin and Morehead, the influence of diet in 
producing liver affections, though alluded to, has been passed over much too lightly. Annesley, 
on the other hand, has fully recognised the immense influence of diet (vol. i. p. 192). 



DYSENTERY AND LIVER DISEASES. 461 

the 84th Kegiment, only two died during a tropical service of thirty months, 
while, in the same period, the mortality among the single men was above 9 per 
cent. The two deaths referred to were from phthisis and delirium tremens. 
Some influence may be given to the habits of married men being more regular 
than those of single men, but in a small station, where little debauchery goes 
on, this influence cannot be great. The custom so general among soldiers of 
spending their surplus pay on intoxicating liquors is another producer of 
gastric and duodenal disease, but I am convinced that too much importance 
has been given to this habit. I am fully prepared to say, from actual know- 
ledge of the character of patients labouring under duodenal hepatitis, that 
there is no great preponderance of intemperate men. A supervision of the 
whole system of diet among European troops, not as regards commissariat 
supplies, which are usually excellent,* but as regards the cooking of these, 
and the time of meals, the encouragement of teetotal societies by every allow- 
able means, and the formation of day and night guards differently clothed, to 
prevent the effects of the great daily thermometrical range of some Indian 
stations, are measures which would, I am convinced, at once reduce the list 
of hepatitis, "t 

Yery similar opinions have been expressed by Macnamara,| and Norman 
Chevers has also pointedly alluded to this subject. 

The food thus supplied to the soldier errs in two ways ; it is too much in 
quantity, especially when the amount of exercise is limited. Macnamara has 
calculated that each European soldier in Bengal consumed (at the time he 
wrote in 1855) 76 ounces of solid (i.e., water-containing) food daily, so that 
there must have been an excess of all the dietetic principles. Then, in every 
case, there was added to this a very large amount of condiments (spices and 
peppers), articles of diet which are fitted for the rice and vegetable diet of the 
Hindu, but are particularly objectionable for Europeans. In the West Indies, 
where the diet has never been so rich in condiments, liver diseases have 
always been comparatively infrequent. 

Lately, some orders for improving the cooking in India have been issued 
by Sir Hugh Eose (see section on India), and if these are carried out, and if 
medical officers would thoroughly investigate the quantity of food taken by 
the men, and compare it with their work, and examine into the cooking, it is 
quite certain that many cases of dyspepsia and hepatitis would be prevented. 

In cases not simply of hypereemia and bilious congestion, but of abscess, 
it is" probable that a certain number are consecutive to dysentery, and are 
caused by the absorption of putrid matters from the intestine,)) which are 
arrested by the liver, and there set up suppuration. There is no true pyaemia 
or inflammation of the vena portse as a rule. When caused by phlebitis or 
special affection of the vena portse, the suppuration is in the course of the 
vena portae, or at any rate commences there. The reason why some cases of 

* They were so in the stations of which I had knowledge, but, unfortunately, this was not 
true for the whole of India. 

f " On the Dysentery and Hepatitis of India," by E. A. Parkes, Assistant-Surgeon 84th 
Regiment, 1846, p. 228. The term duodenal hepatitis was one employed to express a joint 
affection of duodenal hypersemia and catarrh with hepatic swelling, but it has never come into 
use. 

J " Indian Annals," 1855. Mr Macnamara found a most extraordinary amount of fatty de- 
generation of the liver. 

" Health of European Troops in India," Indian Annals, 1858, p. 109 ; it is particularly re- 
commended that this chapter should be carefully perused. 

|| It is, however, remarkable how many cases of dysentery occur without producing hepatic 
abscess ; still our general knowledge of the causation of" disease makes it highly probable 
that dysentery acts in this way. Is it the sloughing dysentery which is followed by hepatic 
abscess ? 



462 ON THE PREVENTION OF DISEASES IN THE ARMY. 

dysentery cause abscess and others do not, is uncertain. The prevention of 
this form of abscess is involved in the prevention of dysentery. 

In other cases of abscess, however, there is no antecedent dysentery, but 
there are collections of pus or foetid debris somewhere else, which act in the 
same way. There are, however, other cases in which no such causes have been 
pointed out, and the genesis of abscess remains quite obscure. Much effect 
has been attributed to the influence of sudden changes of temperature ; to the 
rapid supervention of an exceedingly moist and comparatively cold air on 
a hot season, whereby the profuse action of the skin is suddenly checked ; 
and to the influence of malaria. But the extraordinary disproportion of 
cases of abscess in different parts of the world seems to negative all these 
surmises. 

One fact seems to come out clearly from Mr Waring's observations, viz., 
that recent arrival in India is favourable to the occurrence of abscess, and that 
(all kinds of abscesses being put together) 50 per cent, occur in men under 
three years' service. No length of residence, however, confers perfect im- 
munity. It would be very important to determine whether the effect of 
recent arrival is marked, both in cases of abscess consecutive and anterior to 
dysentery. 

In the absence of perfect knowledge, great care in preserving from chills, 
and proper diet, are the only preventive measures which can be suggested for 
primary hepatic abscess. 

Insolation. (Seepage 431). 

Under this convenient term, a number of cases are put together which 
seem to be produced by one or more of the following causes : 

External Causes. 1. Direct rays of the sun on the head and neck. Adopt 
light coverings, covered with white cotton ; permit a good current of air be- 
tween the head and the covering, and use a light muslin or cotton rag, dipped 
in water, over the head under the cap. 2. Heat in the shade, combined 
especially with stagnant and impure air. In houses (and men have been at- 
tacked with insolation both in tents and barracks) means can always be taken 
to move the air, and thus to keep it pure, even if it cannot be cooled. In 
tents, the heat is often exceedingly great, simply from the fact that there is 
i.ot sufficient movement of air ; in the tropics a simple awning is much better 
than tents, and if the awning is sloped a little, the top of the slope being 
towards the north, the movement of air will be more rapid than if the canvas 
be quite flat. But in the dry season, in the tropics, the men should sleep 
in the open air in all non-malarious districts, when they are on the march or 
in campaigns. 

Internal Causes, It is only known that spirit drinking, even in modera- 
tion, powerfully aids the external causes of insolation ; even wine and beer 
probably have this effect. Tea and coffee, on the other hand, probably lessen 
the susceptibility. 

A full habit of body, or any tendency to fatty heart or emphysematous lungs, 
have been supposed also to predispose. 

It seems certain that any embarrassment of the pulmonary circulation aids 
the action of the heat, and therefore the most perfect freedom from belts and 
tight clothes over the chest and neck is essential. 

Great exhaustion from fatigue aids the action, either from failure of the 
heart's action or want of water. In this case diffusible stimuli, such as am- 
monia, tincture of red lavender, tincture of cardamoms, &c., with strong coffee, 
are the best preventives. Spirits should not be given, unless the exhaustion 



PHTHISIS AND SCURVY. 463 

be extreme, and the diffusible stimula cannot be obtained. A small quantity 
in hot water may then be tried. 

Cold baths, and especially cold douching to the head and spine, are most 
useful as preventive as well as curative measures. 

Phthisis Pulmonalis. 

It seems to me highly probable, that in respect of causes, we must dis- 
tinguish between those usually rapid cases of phthisis which arise from here- 
ditary constitutional causes, or from the influence of exanthemata (especially 
measles), or of typhoid, or other fevers, and which run their course with im- 
plication of several organs at an early stage, and the more chronic forms of 
phthisis, in which the lung in adults is the first seat of the disease, and other 
organs are secondarily affected. Probably several distinct diseases are con- 
founded under this one term of phthisis, and it is therefore not possible at 
present to trace out their precise origin. 

Taking only the common cases of subacute or chronic phthisis, it has been 
already intimated that most European armies have been found to furnish an 
undue proportion of such cases. 

A few years ago much influence was ascribed to food as a cause of phthisis ; 
the occurrence of a sort of dyspepsia as a forerunner (though this does not 
seem very common), and the great effect of the treatment by diet (by cod- 
liver oil), seemed to show that the fault lay in some peculiar malnutrition, 
which affected the blood, and through this the lungs. 

Probably there is truth in this ; but of late years the effects of conditions 
which influence immediately the pulmonary circulation and the lungs them- 
selves have attracted much attention. The effect of want of exercise (no doubt 
a highly complex cause, acting on both digestion and circulation), and of 
impure air, have been found to be very potent agencies in causing phthisis, 
and conversely, the conditions of prevention and treatment which have seemed 
most useful are nutritious food and proportionate great exercise in the free 
and open air. So important has this last condition proved to be, that it 
would appear that even considerable exposure to weather is better than keep- 
ing phthisical patients in close rooms, provided there be no bronchitis or 
tendency to pneumonia or pleurisy. 

The three points, then, which are within our control as regards phthisis 
are arrangement of food, exercise, and pure air. 

The food should contain a good deal of the nitrogenous and fatty principles 
if phthisis is apprehended. Milk has been long celebrated, and lately the 
koumiss of Tartary has obtained a great reputation in Eussia as an agent of cure. 

Exercise is of the greatest importance, and it would seem quite clear that 
this must be in the open air. The best climates for phthisis are perhaps not 
necessarily the equable ones, but those which permit the greatest number of 
hours to be passed out of the house. 

In the house itself, attention to thorough ventilation, i.e., to constant, 
though imperceptible movement of the air, is the point to be attended to. 

In the case of soldiers, it must also be seen that no weights or straps 
impede the circulation of blood through the lungs and heart. 

Scurvy. 

The peculiar state of malnutrition we call scurvy is now known not to be 
the consequence of general starvation, though it is doubtless greatly aided by 
this. Men have been fed with an amount of nitrogenous and fatty food 
sufficient not only to keep them in condition, but to cause them to gain 



464 ON THE PREVENTION OF DISEASES IN THE ARMY. 

weight, and yet have got scurvy. The starches also have been given in 
quite sufficient amount without preventing it. It seems, indeed, clear that it 
is to the absence of some of the constituents of the fourth dietetic group, the 
salts, that we must look for the cause.* 

Facts seem to show with certainty that there is no deficiency of soda or of 
iron, lime, or magnesia, or of chloride of sodium. Nor is the evidence that 
salts of potash are deficient at all satisfactory. Brought forward by Garrod 
as an hypothesis, and based, not on analyses of scorbutic blood and tissues, 
but on the fact that the food which produces scurvy contains less potash than 
the well-known antiscorbutic foods, this hypothesis has been accepted far too 
readily as the true cause of scurvy. It has not been shown yet by analysis 
that the food of a scorbutic patient has been actually deficient in potash, nor 
have analyses of the urine or sweat proved that the natural elimination of 
potash has been at all altered. Therapeutic trials with salts of potash prove 
that potash per se has no antiscorbutic power. Still, simply as a matter of 
precaution, it may be considered right to increase the supply of potash. 

Deficiency of phosphoric acid seems hardly likely to be the cause, though 
Professor Morgan of Dublin has given some reasons which make it desirable 
this point should be again examined, and certainly good analyses of blood and 
of excretions are still desirable. Still, when we think of the quantity of 
phosphoric acid which must have been supplied in many diets of meat, and 
cerealia, which yet did not prevent scurvy, it seems very unlikely that the 
absence of the phosphates can have anything to do with it. Still, it is better 
to be on the safe side, and to supply phosphates. 

The same may be said of sulphur. Considering the quantity of meat and 
of leguminosse which some scorbutic patients have taken, it is almost impos- 
sible that deficiency in sulphur should have been the cause. 

By exclusion, we are led to the opinion that if the cause of scurvy is to be 
found in deficiency of salts, it must be in the salts whose acids form carbonates 
in the system. For, if we are right in looking to a deficiency in the fourth class 
of alimentary principles as the cause of scurvy, and if neither the absence of 
soda, potash, lime, magnesia, iron, sulphur, or phosphoric acid can be the 
cause (and it is probable it is not so), then the only mineral ingredients which 
remain are the combinations of alkalies with those acids which form carbo- 
nates in the system, viz., lactic, citric, acetic, tartaric, and malic. That these 
ajids are most important nutritional agents no one can doubt. The salts con- 
taining them are at first neutral, afterwards alkaline, from their conversion 
into carbonates ; they thus play a double part, and moreover, when free, and 
in the presence of albumen and chloride of sodium, these acids have peculiar 
powers of precipitating albumen, or perhaps of setting free hydrochloric acid.t 
Whatever may be their precise action, their value and necessity cannot be 
doubted. Without them, in fact, one sees no reason why there should not 
be a continual excess of acid in the system, as during nutrition a continual 
excess of acids (phosphoric, sulphuric, uric, hippuric) is produced, sufficient, 
even when the salts with decomposable acid are supplied, to render all excre- 
tions (urinary, cutaneous, intestinal) acid. The only mode of supplying alkali 
to the acids formed in the body is by the action of the phosphates, which is 

* For a good deal of the evidence up to 1849, I beg to refer to a review I contributed on 
Scurvy to the " British and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical Review" in 1848. The evidence since 
this period has added, I believe, little to our knowledge, except to show that the preservative 
and curative powers of fresh meat in large quantities, and especially raw meat (" Kane's Arctic 
Expeditions "), will not only prevent, but will cure scurvy. Kane found the raw meat of the 
walrus a certain cure. 

| See a notice by the author of this singular property in the "Medical Times and Gazette," 
1850. Melsens subsequently directed attention to this point. 



SCURVY. 465 

limited. The only manufacture of alkali in the body is the formation of am- 
monia. Yet it is not solely the absence of alkali which produces scurvy, else 
the disease would be prevented or cured by supply of carbonate of soda or 
potash, which is not the case. 

When, in pursuing the argument, we then inquire whether there is any 
proof of the deficiency of these particular acids and salts from the diets which 
cause scurvy, we find the strongest evidence not only that this is the case, 
but that their addition to the diet cures scurvy with great certainty. They will 
not, of course, cure coincident starvation arising from deficiency of food 
generally, or the low intercurrent inflammations which occur in scurvy, or the 
occasionally attendant purpura, but the true scorbutic condition is cured with 
certainty. 

Of the five acids, it would appear unlikely that the lactic should be the 
most efficacious. If so, how is it that in starch food, during the digestion of 
which lactic acid is probably formed in large quantities, scurvy should occur ? 
Is, in such a case, an alkali necessary to insure the change of the acid into a 
carbonate ? How is it that scurvy will occur with a milk diet, though, doubt- 
less, milk is a good, though not perfect preservative ? 

Vinegar is an old remedy for scurvy, and acetic acid is known to be both a 
preventive of (to some extent) and a cure for scurvy. But it has always been 
considered much inferior to both citric and tartaric acids. Possibly, as in the 
case of lactic acid, an alkali should be supplied at the same time so as to en- 
able the acid to be more rapidly transformed. 

Tartaric, and especially citric acids, when combined with alkalies, have 
always been considered to be the antiscorbutic remedies, par excellence, and 
the evidence on this point seems very complete.* 

Of malic acid little is known as an antiscorbutic agent, but it is well worthy 
of extended trials. 

Deficiency of fresh vegetables implies deficiency in the salts of these acids, 
and scurvy ensues with certainty on their disuse. Its occurrence is, however, 
greatly aided by accessory causes, especially deficiency in food generally, by 
cold and wet, and mental and moral depression. 

The preventive measures of scurvy are, then, the supply of the salts of 
citric, tartaric, acetic, lactic, and malic acids, and of the acids themselves, and 
perhaps in the order here given, and by the avoidance, if it can be done, of 
the other occasional causes. 

Experience seems to show that the supply of these acids in the juices of 
the fresh succulent vegetables and fruits, especially the potato, the cabbage, 
orange, lime, and grape, is the best form. But fresh fruits, tubers, roots, and 
leaves, are better than seeds. The leguminosse, and many other vegetables, 
are useless. 

Fresh, and especially raw, meat is also useful, and this is conjectured to 
be from its amount of lactic acid ; but this is uncertain. 

The dried vegetables are also antiscorbutic, but far less so than the fresh ; 
and the experience of the American War is not so favourable to them as might 
have been anticipated. Do the citric and other acids in the dried vegetables 
decompose by heat or by keeping 1 It would be very desirable to have this 
question settled by a good chemist. We know that the citric acid in lemon 

* It is based on a very wide experience, and should not be set aside by the statements of men 
who have seen only three or four cases of scurvy, often complicated, which happen not to have 
been benefited by lemon juice. The progress of preventive medicine is checked by assertions 
drawn from a very limited experience, yet made with great confidence. We must remember that 
many cases of scurvy are com plicated that the true scorbutic condition, inanition, and low inflam- 
ma* "f various organs, lungs, spleen, liver, and muscles, may be all present at the same time. 

2 G 



466 ON THE PREVENTION OF DISEASES IN THE ARMY. 

juice gradually decomposes. It does not follow that it should be quite stable 
in the dried vegetables. 

The measures to be adopted in time of war, or in prolonged sojourn on board 
ship, or at stations where fresh vegetables are scarce, are 

1. The supply of fresh vegetables and fruits by all the means in our power. 
Even unripe fruits are better than none, and we must risk a little diarrhoea 
for the sake of their antiscorbutic properties. In time of war every vegetable 
should be used which it is safe to use, and, when made into soups, almost all 
are tolerably pleasant to eat. 

2. The supply of the dried vegetables, especially potato, cabbage, and cauli- 
flowers; turnips, parsnips, &c., are perhaps less useful; dried peas and beans 
are useless. As a matter of precaution, these dried vegetables should be issued 
early in a campaign, but should never supersede the fresh vegetables. 

3. Good lemon juice should be issued daily (1 oz.), and it should be seen 
that the men take it. 

4. Vinegar (^ oz. to 1 oz. daily) should be issued with the rations, and used 
in the cooking. 

5. Citrates, tartrates, lactates, and malates of potash, should be issued in 
bulk, and used as drinks, or added to the food. Potash should be selected as 
the base, as there is seldom any chance of the supply of soda being lessened. 
The easiest mode of issuing these salts would be to have packets containing 
enough for one mess of twelve men, and to instruct the men how important 
it is to place them in the soups or stews. Possibly they might be mixed with 
the salt, and issued merely as salt. 

Military Ophthalmia. 

The term " military ophthalmia" is often applied particularly to that dis- 
ease in which the peculiar grey granulations form on the palpebral conjunc- 
tiva. But any severe form of purulent ophthalmia* spreading in a regiment 
is often classed under the same heading. Diseases of the eyes are a source of 
very considerable inefficiency in the army, and even a casual visitor to the 
Royal Victoria Hospital must be struck by the large number of men he will 
meet with who have some affection of the eyes. A reference to the Army 
Medical Eeports will also show what great attention is being paid to this 
important subject by military surgeons, especially by my colleague, Professor 
Longmore.* 

Epidemics of military ophthalmia (grey or vesicular granulations, and rapid 
purulent ophthalmia), seem to have been uncommon, or perhaps unknown, on 
the large scale in the wars of the eighteenth century. 

The disease, as we now see it, is one of the legacies which Napoleon left to 
the world. His system of making war with little intermission, rapid move- 
ments, abandonment of the good old custom of winter quarters, and inter- 
mixture of regiments from several nations, seem to have given a great spread to 
the disease, and though the subsequent years of peace have greatly lessened it, 
it has prevailed more or less ever since in the French, Prussian, Austrian, 
Bavarian, Hanoverian, Italian, Spanish, Belgian, Swedish, and Eussian armies, 
as well as in our own. It has also been evidently propagated among the 

* Ophthalmoscopes are now issued to the different stations, and an Ophthalmoscopic Manual 
has been drawn up by Mr Longmore for the use of army medical officers. As giving a good 
survey of military ophthalmia in the British army, the excellent papers of Dr Frank (Army 
Medical Report for 1860), and Dr Marston (Scale's Archives), should be also referred to. _ A 
very interesting paper has also been published by Mr Welch, 22d regiment (Army Medical 
Report, vol. v. p. 494, 1865), on the " Causes aiding the Development of Granulations at 
Malta." A warm, moist, impure atmosphere is shown to have a great influence. 



OPHTHALMIA 467 

civil population by the armies, and is one more heritage with which glorious 
war has cursed the nations. 

In some cases, as in the Danish army, it has been absent till 'manifestly 
introduced (in 1851) ; in other instances it has been supposed to originate 
spontaneously from overcrowding and foul barrack atmosphere, and from defec- 
tive arrangements for ablution.* Here, as in so many other cases, we find that 
the question of origin de novo, however important, need not be mixed up with 
that of *the necessary preventive measures. What is important for us is to 
know -first, that it is contagious, that is, transmissible ; and, secondly, that if 
not produced, its transmissibility is singularly aided by bad barrack accom- 
modation. 

In the six years ending December 1860, out of 16,654 soldiers discharged 
the service for disability, no less than 1393, or 8 '4 per cent., were so for 
diseases of the eyes. In 1860, no less than 9 per cent, (or one invalid in every 
11) were thus discharged. t This, of course, includes all diseases of the eyes. 
In 1861, about 64 per cent, of the eye diseases were cases of "ophthalmia," 
8 '4 of iritis, 17 '6 of retino-choroidal disease, 4*5 of defective refraction, 4 of 
traumatic injury, and 1 '3 of cataract (Frank). It is not clear how many of the 
cases classed as " chronic ophthalmia" were of the disease termed military 
ophthalmia or grey granulations," but the majority appear to have been of this 
class ; and Dr Frank states that, in 1861, cases of " chronic ophthalmia" for 
invaliding were furnished by no less than fifty-seven different regiments. 

The measures to be adopted if military ophthalmia prevails 

1. Good Ventilation and Purity of the Air. In the Hanoverian army, 
Stromeyer reduced the number of cases in an extraordinary degree, simply 
by good ventilation. The only explanation of this must be that the dried 
particles of pus and epithelium, instead of accumulating in the room, were 
carried away, and did not lodge on the eyelids of the healthy men. The 
evolution of ammonia from decomposing urine has been also assigned as a 
cause ; no urine tub should be allowed in a room, or if it must be placed there, 
a little carbolic (or failing this, hydrochloric) acid should be placed every night 
in the tub to delay the decomposition of the urea. 

It would appear likely that bad barrack air predisposes to granular con- 
junctivitis by producing some peculiar state of the palpebral conjunctiva and 
glands (Stromeyer and Frank), and if a diseased person then introduces the 
specific disease, it spreads with great rapidity, or possibly, as Mr Welch's facts 
seem to show, the impure atmosphere is the great cause, and contagion only 
secondary. 

2. Careful Ablution Arrangements. An insufficient supply of water for 
cleansing basins, and the use of the same towels, are great means of spreading 
the disease, if it has been introduced. Whenever men use the same basins 
they should be taught to thoroughly cleanse them, and it would be well if in 
every military ablution room the men were taught not only to allow the dirty 
water to run away, but to refill the basin with water, which the next comer 
would let off before filling with fresh water for himself. If some mechanism 
could be devised for this, it would be very useful. The same towel is a most 
common cause of propagation ; or a diseased man using always the same towel 
may reinoculate himself. The towels should be very frequently washed (pro- 
bably every day), and should be dried in the open air, never in the ablution 
room or barrack. 

In some cases special ablution arrangements may cause a good deal of granu- 

* See Dr Frank's papers (Army Medical Report for I860, p. 406) for some remarks on its 
spontaneous origin. 

t Frank, Army Medical Report for 1860, p. 400. 

2o 2 



468 ON THE PREVENTION OF DISEASES IN THE ARMY. 

lar conjunctivitis. In 1842 and 1843, I witnessed, in a regiment newly 
landed in India from England, a very great number of cases of this kind ; the 
supply of water was very insufficient, many men used the same basins, which 
were very imperfectly cleaned ; the same basins were used for washing, and 
also for dyeing clothes ; at that time the men in the cold months wore trou- 
sers of a black drill, and when the dye came off they were accustomed to 
rudely replace it ; they themselves ascribed the very prevalent ophthalmia to 
the irritating effect of the particles of the dye left in the basins, and getting 
into the eyes. There were enormous granulations on both upper and lower 
lids, and the disease was believed to be communicable, but whether the 
affection was strictly to be classed with the vesicular granulations I do not 
know. 

3. In some cases the use of the bedding (pillows and pillow-cases), which 
has been used by men with grey granulations, has given the disease to others, 
and tin's has especially occurred on board transports. In time of war, espe- 
cially, this should be looked to. If any cases of ophthalmia have occurred on 
board ship, all the pillows and mattresses should be washed, fumigated, and 
thoroughly aired and beaten. The transference has been in this case direct, 
particles of pus, &c. adhering to the pillow and mattresses, and then getting 
into the eyes of the next comers. 

4. Immediately the disease presents itself, the men should be completely 
isolated, and allowed to have no communication with their comrades. It has 
been a great question whether a Government is justified in sending soldiers 
home to their friends, as it has been thus carried into previously healthy 
villages. It would seem clear that the State must bear its own burdens, and 
provide means of isolation, and not throw the risk on the friends and neigh- 
bours of the soldier. 

An important matter to remember in connection with grey granulations, 
is, that relapses are very frequent : a man once affected has no safety 
(Warlomont) ; simple causes of catarrh and inflammation may then reinduce 
the specific grey granulations with their contagious characters ; so that a man 
who has once had the disease is a source of danger, and should be watched. 

Venereal Diseases. 

It is convenient for our purpose to put together all diseases arising from 
impure sexual intercourse, whether it be a simple excoriation which has been 
inoculated with the natural vaginal mucus or with leucorrhoaal discharges, 
and which may produce some inguinal swelling, and may either get well in a 
few days or last for several days ; or whether it be an inflammation of the 
urethra produced by specific (or non-specific ? leucorrhoeal ?) discharge, or 
whether it be one of the forms of syphilis now diagnosed as being in all pro- 
bability separate and special diseases having particular courses and termina- 
tions.* 

In the army men enter the hospital from all these causes, and from the 
remoter effects of gonorrhoea or syphilis, orchitis, gleet, stricture, bladder and 
kidney affection ; or syphilitic diseases of the skin, bones, eyes, and internal 
organs. 

The gross amount of inefficiency is tolerably well known (see chapter on 
HOME SERVICE), but it will require a few more years before the several items 

* The singular attempt to argue there is no true syphilitic poison causing a certain and 
regular series or evolution of diseases is hardly likely to introduce any permanent confusion 
into this subject. What should have been done, would have been, not to deny the existence of 
syphilis, but to show what is the precise diagnosis ; to do, in fact, for the venereal diseases 
what has been done for fevers. 



VENEREAL DISEASES. 469 

of the gross amount are properly made out. This arises partly, from an occa- 
sional great difficulty in the diagnosis of true infecting syphilis, and partly 
from a want of uniformity in nomenclature.* 

The comparative amount of army and civil venereal diseases is not known, 
because we have no statistics of the civil amount. It is no doubt great. It 
is a question whether a large majority of the young men of the upper and 
middle classes do not suffer in youth from some form of venereal diseases. In 
the lower classes it is perhaps equally common. 

The sequences are most serious ; neglected gleet, stricture, secondary and 
tertiary syphilis, are sad prices to pay for an unlawful (in some cases a momen- 
tary) gratification ; and in the army the State yearly suffers a large pecuniary 
loss from inefficiency and early invaliding. In campaigns the inefficiency 
from this cause has sometimes been great enough to alarm the generals in 
command, and to increase considerably the labour and sufferings of the men 
who are not affected. 

In the chapter on HOME SERVICE, the statistics of our own and of the 
French army during peace are given, and here I must refer only to the means 
of prevention among soldiers. 

1. Continence, The sexual passion in most men is very strong. Provi- 
dence has, indeed, made it strong enough to lead men to defy all dangers, and 
to risk all consequences. It has been supposed by some that, in early man- 
hood, continence is impossible, or if practised, is so at the risk of other habits 
being formed, which are more hurtful than sexual intercourse, with all its 
dangers. But this is surely an exaggeration ; the development of this passion 
can be accelerated or delayed, excited or lowered, by various measures, and 
continence becomes not only possible, but easy. 

For delaying the advent of sexual puberty and desire, two plans, in addition 
to the restraints of religious duty, can be suggested absence from exciting 
thoughts and temptation, and the systematic employment of muscular and 
mental exercise. The minds of the young are often, but too soon, awakened 
to such matters, and obscene companions or books have lighted up in many 
a youthful breast ihatfeu-d'enfer which is more dangerous to many a man than 
the sharpest fire of the battle-field would be. Among young soldiers this is 
especially the case ; while, in spite of the exciting literature of the day, and of 
the looseness of some of the older boys at the public schools, or at the univer- 
sities, the moral tone of the young gentlemen of our day is perhaps better than 
it was some half century ago, the conversation of the classes from which the 
soldier is drawn is still coarse and lewd as in the middle ages. There is too 
close a mixture of the sexes in the English cottages for much decency, and the 
young recruit does not often require the tone of the barrack to destroy his 
modesty. In fact, it is possible that, in good regiments, he will find a higher 
moral tone than in the factory or the harvest field. 

We must trust to a higher cultivation, and especially to religious influences, 
to introduce among the male youth of this nation, in all its grades, a purer 
moral tone, so that the safeguard of modesty and religious scruples may be 
cultivated, and not destroyed. In the army, the example of the officers, and 
their exertions in this way, would do great things, if we could hope that the 
high moral tone which happily exists in some cases could inspire all. 

If exciting and lewd conversation and thoughts should be discouraged by 
moral and religious teaching, it is not the less necessary to save the young 

* A bad or hasty nomenclature does great harm ; but nothing so aids investigation as precise 
language when properly used. In fact, advance is impossible without it ; and this, it seems to 
me, is now one of the wants in syphilology. Such progress has been lately made, however, in 
diagnosis, that we shall doubtless soon have a perfectly correct nomenclature. 



470 ON THE PREVENTION OF DISEASES IN THE ARMY. 

from temptation. The youth of this nation are now sorely tempted. In our 
streets, prostitution is at every corner, and the most degraded and dangerous 
strumpets are allowed to congregate round our barracks without hindrance. 
Whatever may be the objection to police regulations, we have s.urely a right 
to demand that the present system of temptation shall be altered. It may not 
be easy to exclude all prostitutes, especially of the better class (whose calling 
is less easily brought home to them), from public thoroughfares, but, practi- 
cally, open prostitution can be recognised and made to disappear from our 
streets. It has been said our police regulations are sufficient for this ; they 
have never yet proved so ; and in no European country but England is prosti- 
tution so open and so undisguised.* 

Although in our camps and garrisons means could easily be adopted to 
prevent soldiers being solicited by women, even in the Act passed in 1864+ 
(an Act of the greatest importance, as the first step in an efficient legisla- 
tion), no authority has been taken to prevent prostitutes from assembling in 
public places near barracks, or to insure that the public-houses which the 
soldier frequents are not either brothels or connected with them. To do so 
would, according to some, be "an interference with the liberty of the subject," 
as if the State does not, in numberless ways, and most properly, interfere with 
the liberty of the subject at every turn. It is quite time that this meaningless 
phrase should disappear, and that men should see that, in the case of venereal 
diseases, the State must as much protect its citizens as from the danger of 
foul water, or the chances of gunpowder explosions, or the risks of any other 
perilous and unhealthy trade. If men want prostitutes, they must go and 
seek them. If a woman desires to become a prostitute, she must know that 
she will not be allowed to pursue her calling in the public streets or in public 
places. 

If young men could thus escape an appeal to their passions, continence 
would be much more easy. There are times when the strictest virtue may 
well dread such an appeal. Human nature is but too weak, and needs every 
safeguard it can get. 

As aids to continence, great physical and mental exertion are most powerful. 
It would seem thafc, during great exercise, the nervous energy is expended in 
that way, and erotic thoughts and propensities are less prominent ; so also 
with mental exercise, in perhaps a less degree. The establishment of athletic 
sports, gymnasia, and comfortable reading-rooms in the army, may be expected 
to have some influence. 

Temperance is a great aid to continence. In the army, the intemperate men 
give the greatest number of cases of syphilis ; and when a man gets an 
attack, it is not infrequently found that he was drunk at the time. 

The measures which promote continence are then 

(a.) The cultivation of a religious feeling, and of pure thought and conver- 
sation among the young soldiers, by every means in our power. 

(b.) Eemoving from him temptation and occasions to sin. 

(c.) Constant and agreeable employment, bodily and mentally; as idleness 
is one great cause of debauchery. 

(d.) Temperance. 

* The effect of this upon the virtuous female population is very serious. Every servant in 
London sees the fine clothes and hears of the idle and luxurious lives of the women of the 
town, and knows that occasionally respectable marriage ends a life of vice. What a temptation 
to abandon the hard work and the drudgery of service for such a career, of which she sees only 
the bright side ! It is a temptation from which the State should save her. She should see 
prostitution as a degraded calling only, with its restrictions and its inconveniences. 

t An Act for the Prevention of Contagious Diseases at certain Naval and Military Stations. 
1864. 



VENEREAL DISEASES. 471 

2. Marriage. It is very doubtful whether those who condemn early mar- 
riages among the working classes, on account of improvidence, are right in 
their argument. Probably the early marriages are the salvation of the youth 
of this country ; and in the present condition of the labour market, the best 
thing a working-man can do is, as early as possible, to make his home, and to 
secure himself both from the temptations and expenses of bachelorhood. In 
the case of the soldier there is, for 94 privates out of every 100, a condition 
of enforced celibacy. It seems difficult to avoid this, with the present condi- 
tions of service ; and yet, what is the inevitable consequence of shutting out 
from the prospect or possibility of marriage young men of the soldier's age 
and education ? It should be a matter of grave consideration for the State 
which places men in such a position. In most of the other armies of Europe 
the soldier serves for a limited time three to five years ; and can look for- 
ward to a speedy release, and to marriage if he pleases. In our service his 
least period is ten years. The present system of rapid relief also renders 
marriage less attractive to the soldier than it was, on account of the great ex- 
pense the removes put him to. Formerly, when he remained several years, or 
his whole service, in one station, or at neighbouring stations, his expenses as a 
married man were light ; now, he seldom stops more than three years at any 
one place. 

All that the State can do, is to allow as many men to marry as possible 
(and surely 6 per cent, is a very small number), and to make marriage a re- 
ward, by providing good quarters, and by allowances to married men when en 
route. Beyond this, it seems impossible to look to marriage as a preventive 
of venereal disease in the army. 

3. Precautions against the Disease. Admitting that, in the case of a body 
of unmarried men, a certain amount of prostitution will go on,* something 
may be done to prevent disease by extreme cleanliness, instant ablution, and 
by the use of sulphate of zinc, or similar lotions after connection. It may 
seem an offence against morality to speak of such things ; but we must deal 
with things as they are ; and our object now is not to enforce morality, but to 
prevent disease. The use in brothels of these measures appears to be more 
efficacious than any other plan. In some of the French towns the use 
of lotions and washing is rigorously enforced, with the effect of lessening 
disease considerably. 

4. Cure of the Disease in those affected with it. In the case of the soldier 

* While saying this, and while dealing with what actually exists, I do not, for a moment, 
share the opinions of those who look on prostitution not only as a necessity, but as a good as 
a shield against worse vices, and as a guard against attempts on married virtue. One feels 
instinctively that such arguments, however plausible at first sight, are untrue. In fact, they do 
not bear investigation. Develope the case to a general rule (as Paley advised to be done in all 
arguments), and its fallacy is manifest. The more prostitution is extended, the more encroach- 
ment does it make on marriage the safeguard of the human race. In its smallest degree, it 
does this. If extended, prostitution would begin to shake the very structure of society the 
relations of the sexes, the improvement of both men and women, and the care and culture of the 
offspring, would become endangered. The more it is considered, the more clearly will the ter- 
rible consequences of an extended prostitution come out. But apart from this general view, the 
effect on the individual man is disastrous, even if he escapes venereal disease. Association with 
a single woman is a safeguard against excess ; but if the appetite is stimulated by constant 
variety, it is impossible to avoid excess, and its enfeebling effects on the body. It is worse than 

Eolygamy, as sexual intercourse with different females is more varied. In polygamy, also, it 
i well known that our common notions of a great number of wives is erroneous ; a stop is put 
by the expense ; and in the polygamous nations, the majority of men have only one wife. 
Whenever station or riches enable a man to have more, he pays for his gratification by an en- 
feebled health, and by a degenerate offspring. 

It is not without physiological cause that Christianity has forbidden prostitution, in terms 
which make us understand even better than the writings of Terence or Juvenal, how wide-spread 
and deadly was the prostitution of antiquity, and how the strength and wellbeing of men were 
being undermined. Is there no danger that we may require similar warnings ? 



472 ON THE PREVENTION OF DISEASES IN THE A11MY. 

who has medical advice at hand, it seems of the greatest importance to have 
instant medical aid at the first sign of disease. But, instead of this, the 
soldier conceals his ailment as long as possible, because he will be sent to 
hospital, put under stoppages, &c. This is a very bad result of our present 
system, and the sooner it is altered the better. The soldier should be en- 
couraged to make immediate application, and he should certainly not be 
punished for a fault which his superiors commit with impunity, and for 
which the State is in part answerable by enforcing celibacy. Our object is to 
preserve the man's health and services for the State ; we shall not accomplish 
this by ignoring Avhat is a common consequence of his conditions of service. 

Health inspections are made weekly by the surgeon or assistant-surgeon. I 
believe these inspections, when carefully made, to be of the greatest service. 
Some medical officers consider them derogatory, and slur them over. I can 
neither participate in, nor indeed understand, a feeling of this kind ; it seems 
to me a matter of duty, which should be done as conscientiously as possible. 
I know from personal experience of health inspections how many men were 
caught in an early stage of syphilis and gonorrhoaa, and the disease was forth- 
with cured, or greatly mitigated. The more thoroughly these health inspec- 
tions are again made the better. 

It has been also proposed to detect and cure the disease in prostitutes. A 
great outcry has been raised against this proposal, which is yet a matter of 
precaution which the State is surely bound to take. A woman chooses to 
follow a dangerous trade as dangerous as if she stood at the corner of a 
street exploding gunpowder. By practising this trade she ought at once to 
bring herself under the law, and the State must take what precautions it can 
to prevent her doing mischief. The State cannot prevent prostitution. We 
shall see no return to the stern old Scandinavian law which punished the 
prostitute with stripes and death ; but it is no more interference with the 
liberty of the subject to prevent a woman from propagating syphilis, than it 
would be to prevent her propagating smallpox. 

The difficulty is to detect when she is diseased. Abroad, an elaborate 
system is in use for this purpose ;* brothels are registered, and their inmates 
regularly examined. In this country such a system seems to many people 
too like a recognition of the inevitableness of prostitution, and to a certain 
extent a sanction of it. It does not present itself to me in this light, but as 
a simple matter of precaution. A custom exists which we cannot set aside ; 
let us obviate its effects as best we may, while, at the same time, by higher 
culture and better religious teaching, we endeavour to gradually remove the 
custom. 

Another plan is followed at some foreign stations, and is about to be tried 
in England. "With a boldness which does them great credit, the Government 
passed an Act in the session of 1864, by which, in the neighbourhood of 
certain places (Portsmouth, Plymouth, Woolwich, Chatham, Sheerness, and 
Aldershot), prostitutes who are found diseased may be taken to certified 
hospitals, and there detained till cured. Information, according to a certain 
form, contained in the second schedule to the Act, is laid before a Justice of 
the Peace that a common prostitute has venereal disease. A notice in a cer- 
tain form is then issued to the woman, either to attend before the Justice, or 
to go at once with a constable to a certified hospital for medical examination. 
If found diseased, she can then be detained in the hospital for twenty -four 
hours, and, under orders from the Justice, to whom a medical certificate from 

* For an account of the various plans, which have not, I believe, been much altered since 
that time, I beg to refer to Dr Holland's two articles on Prostitution, in the "British and Foreign 
Medico-Chirurgical Review " for 1854, and to Mr Acton's work. 



VENEREAL DISEASES. 473 

** 

the hospital is transmitted, for a longer period. Power is given, "by clause 17, 
to enable the Justice to enforce the order, and to oblige the woman to conform 
to the regulations of the hospital, and to retain her in it, if she wishes*to leave. 

Clause 18 is an important one. It runs thus, " If any person, being the 
owner or occupier of any house, room, or place within the limits of any place 
to which this Act applies, or being a manager or assistant in the management 
thereof, knowingly induces or suffers any common prostitute having a con- 
tagious disease to resort or to be in such house, room, or place for the purpose 
of prostitution, every such person shall be guilty of an offence against this 
Act, and on summary conviction thereof before a Justice of the Peace, shall 
be liable to a penalty not exceeding twenty pounds, or, at the discretion of 
the Justice, to be imprisoned for any term not exceeding six months, with or 
without hard labour." 

" Provided that a conviction under this enactment shall not exempt the 
offender from any penal or other consequences to which he or she may be 
liable for keeping or being concerned in keeping a bawdy-house or disorderly 
house, or for the nuisance thereby occasioned." 

The effect of this Act cannot yet be known, as it has been in actual operation 
only during the last six months of 1865. But it is understood that some 
good is traceable to it already, although from the limited nature of the 
powers there are great opportunities for evasion. If it does not succeed, it 
should only lead to more complete legislation. Without sanctioning or legalis- 
ing prostitution, we can yet surely control a dangerous trade, prevent the 
display of vice in our streets, remove from prostitution some of the glitter 
which tempts the foolish and the unwary to sin, and save to some extent the 
unhappy girls who lead this life of miscalled joy from the consequences of 
their own weakness or misfortune.* 

* Those persons who shut their eyes to the enormous prostitution of this country, as of all 
others, or think nothing can be done because it is impossible to deal with private or " sly" 
prostitution, and with the higher grades of the calling, should remember that some movement 
in the interest of the unhappy girls themselves is necessary. In the low brothels in London, 
the system is a most cruel one. A girl is at first well treated, and encouraged to fall into debt 
to her employer. As soon as she is fairly involved, she is a slave ; there is no relief till she 
can make no more money, when she is cast out. Surely something should be done to save her. 
Possibly it might be well to try the plan of recognising no debts from a girl to the procuress or 
brothel-keeper, and to also devise means for at once giving her the means of release from her 
life if she desires it. Also, if such houses must exist and Avho can venture to hope they will 
110 t '( they may at least be made less indecent, quieter, and safer from theft, and even murder. 
At present, the system, as it exists, is a gigantic scandal to Christianity, and Jeannel's singular 
work has lately shown how curious a parallel there is between modern prostitution and that 
which dimmed the splendour, and perhaps hastened the fall, of Imperial and Pagan Rome. 
Eighteen centuries after the death of Christ, are we still at such a point ? 



CHAPTER XVIII. 
DISPOSAL OF THE DEAD. 



IN densely populated countries the disposal of the dead is always a question 
of difficulty. If the dead are buried, so great at last is the accumulation of 
bodies that the whole country round a great city becomes gradually a vast 
cemetery.* In some soils the decomposition of bodies is very slow, and it is 
many years before the risk of impurities passing into air and water is removed. 

After death the buried body returns to its elements, and gradually, and 
often by the means of other forms of life which prey on it, a large amount 
of it forms carbonic acid, ammonia, sulphuretted and carburetted hydrogen, 
nitrous and nitric acid, and various more complex gaseous products, many of 
which are very foetid, but which, however, are eventually all oxidised into the 
simpler combinations. The non-volatile substances, the salts, become con- 
stituents of the soil, pass into plants, or are carried away in the water perco- 
lating through the ground. The hardest parts, the bones, remain in some 
soils for many centuries, and even for long periods retain a portion of their 
animal constituents. 

If, instead of being buried, the body is burned, the same process occurs 
more rapidly and with different combinations ; carbonic acid, carbonic oxide (?) 
nitrogen, or perhaps combinations of nitrogen, water, &c., are given off, and 
the mineral constituents, and a little carbon, remain behind. 

A community must always dispose of its dead either by burial in land or 
water, or by burning, or chemical destruction equivalent to burning, or by 
embalming and preserving. Accustomed as we are to land burial, there is 
something almost revolting, at first sight, at the idea of making the sea the 
sepulchre, or of burning the dead. Yet the eventual dispersion of our frames 
is the same in all cases ; and it is probably a matter merely of custom which 
makes us think that there is a want of affection, or of care, if the bodies of 
the dead are not suffered to repose in the earth that bore them. If we read 
the Bible aright that our bodies are to rise again it must be by a miracle, 
which, in some way incomprehensible to us, will bind up again the scattered 
elements, and from the four winds of heaven call the dispersed atoms to the 
promised land. 

* Nothing, perhaps, testifies more strongly to the antiquity and the extent of the ancient cities 
in Anatolia, than the vast sepulchral remains. On the site of old Dardanus, the mother of 
Troy, and stretching from the Hellespont for two or three miles into the hills, the whole 
country is honeycombed with tombs. It is the same in the neighbourhood of Troy. The burial 
of the dead, though practised by the most ancient nations, wns afterwards superseded by burn- 
ing, and was only subsequently 'returned to. As, therefore, these graves represent only a por- 
tion of the duration of the city, the immense assemblage of tombs is the more remarkable, and 
it is impossible to avoid the conclusion that these great cities must have floxivished for periods 
far longer than those which have elapsed since London or Paris, for example, became large 
centres of population. 



DISPOSAL OF THE DEAD. 475 

In reality, neither affection nor religion can be outraged by any manner of 
disposal of the dead which is done with proper solemnity and respect to the 
earthly dwelling-place of our friends. The question should be placed entirely 
on sanitary grounds, and we shall then judge it rightly. 

What, then, is the best plan of disposing of the dead, so that the living 
may not suffer ? 

It seems hardly likely that the practice of embalming or mummifying will 
ever again become common. What is the use of preserving for a few more 
years the remains which will be an object of indifference to future generations ? 
The next logical step Avould be to enshrine these remains in some way so as to 
insure their preservation, and we should return to the vast burial mounds of 
Egypt. The question will lie between burial in the land or at sea, and burning. , 

At present the question is not an urgent one ; but if peace continue, and if 
the population of Europe increase, it will become so in another century or two. 
Already in this country we have seen, in our own time, a great change ; the 
objectionable practice of interment under and round churches in towns has 
been given up, and the population is buried at a distance from their habita- 
tions. Eor the present that measure will probably suffice, but in a few years 
the question will again inevitably present itself. 

Burying in the ground appears certainly the most insanitary plan of the 
three methods. The air over cemeteries is constantly contaminated (see 
p. 79), and water (which may be used for drinking) is often highly impure. 
Hence, in the vicinity of graveyards two dangers to the population arise, and 
in addition, from time to time, the disturbance of an old graveyard has given 
rise to disease. It is a matter of notoriety that the vicinity of graveyards is 
unhealthy. How are these dangers to be avoided 1 The dead may be buried 
in more or less air-tight vaults; here decay is slow; the products form and 
escape slowly, though they must eventually escape ; and air and water are 
less contaminated. But the immense expense of such a plan renders it im- 
possible to adopt it for the community generally. Deep burying has the ad- 
vantage of greater nitration, both for air and water, than shallow burying, 
and hence it is a good rule to make the grave as deep as possible, and to allow 
no more than one body in a grave. The admixture of quicklime has been 
advised ; it absorbs some carbonic acid, and forms sulphuret of calcium with 
the sulphur and sulphuretted hydrogen, but this itself soon decomposes, so 
that the expense of quicklime seems hardly commensurate with the result. 
Charcoal would absorb and oxidise the foetid organic matter, and, if sufficiently 
cheap, would be a valuable substance to be heaped in graves ; but its cost 
would be probably too great, nor does it entirely hinder putrefaction, and the 
evolution of foul-smelling substances (H. Barker). If a body has to be kept 
unburied for some time, sawdust and sulphate of zinc, in the proportion of two 
parts to one, has been found by Herbert Barker* to be the best existing; a thin 
layer is put over the dead body ; or sawdust is sprinkled on the body, and 
then two or three ounces of carbolic acid thrown over it. 

The only means which present themselves, as applicable in all cases, are the 
deep burial and the use of plants, closely placed in the cemetery. There is 
no plan which is more efficacious for the absorption of the organic substances, 
and perhaps of the carbonic acid, than plants, but it would seem a mistake to 
use only the dark, slow-growing evergreens. The object should be to get 
the most rapidly growing trees and shrubs, and, in fact, there is no reason, 
except a feeling of sentiment, why we should introduce into our cemeteries 
the gloomy and melancholy cypress and yew. 

* Deodorisatiou and Disinfection, "British Medical Journal," January 1866. 



476 DISPOSAL OF THE DEAD. 

When, in the course of years, it becomes imperative to reconsider this 
question, and land "burial will have to be modified, many arguments will 
present themselves to maritime nations in favour of burying in the sea rather 
than of burning. It is true that the impurities in burning can be well diffused 
into the atmosphere at large, and would not add to it any perceptible impurity. 
But if the burning is not complete, foetid organic matters are given off, which 
hang cloud-like in the air, and may be perceptible, and even hurtful. As a 
matter of expense, too, the system of incremation would be greater than the 
burial at sea. In the burial at sea, some of the body would go at once to 
support other forms of life, more rapidly than in the case of land burial, and 
without the danger of evolution of hurtful products ; and in the vast abyss of 
the ocean the remains would rest until the trumpet shall sound which shall 
order the sea to give up its dead. 

In time of war, and especially in the case of beleagured fortresses, the dis- 
posal of the dead becomes often a matter of difficulty. In that case burning 
may have to be resorted to. If the bodies are buried, they should always be 
at as great a distance as possible, and as deep as they can be. If procurable, 
charcoal should be thrown over them ; if it cannot be obtained, sawdust and 
sulphate of zinc, or carbolic acid may be employed. Quicklime is also com- 
monly used, but is less useful. 



CHAPTER XIX. 
INDIVIDUAL HYGIENIC MANAGEMENT. 

THIS subject is an extremely large one, and the object of this book does not 
allow me to discuss it. It would require a volume to itself. I can merely 
here make a few very general remarks. The application of general hygienic 
rules to a particular case constitutes individual management. 

It is impossible to make general rules sufficiently elastic, and yet precise 
enough, to meet every possible case. It is sufficient if they contain principles 
and precepts which can be applied. While individual hygiene should be a 
matter of study to all of us, it is by no means desirable to pay a constant or 
minute attention to one's own health. Such care will defeat its object. We 
should only exercise that reasonable care, thought, and prudence which, in a 
matter of such moment, every one is bound to take. 

Every man, for example, who considers the subject bond fide, is the best 
judge of the exact diet which suits him. If he understands the general prin- 
ciples of diet, and remembers the Hippocratic rule, that the amount of food 
and exercise must be balanced, and that evil results from excess of either, he 
is hardly likely to go wrong. 

" Temperance and exercise" was the old rule laid down, even before Hip- 
pocrates,* as containing the essence of health ; and if we translate temperance 
by " sufficient food for wants, but not for luxuries," we shall express the 
present doctrine. 

The nutrition of the body is so effected by individual peculiarities, that 
there is a considerable variety in the kind of food taken by different persons. 
The old rule seems a good one, viz., while conforming to the general principles 
of diet, not to encourage too great an attention either to quantity or to quality, 
but avoiding what experience has shown to be manifestly bad, either generally, 
or for the particular individual, to allow a considerable variety and change in 
amount from day to day, according to appetite, t Proper and slow mastica- 

* It is quite plain from the context, that Hippocrates, by temperance, meant such an amount 
of food as would balance, and neither exceed nor fall short of the exercise. He had a clear con- 
ception of the development of mechanical force from, and its relation to, food. He lays down 
rules to show when the diet is in excess of exercise, or the exercise in excess of diet. In either 
case he traces disease. 

f 1 Celsus carried the plan of variety so far as to recommend that men should sometimes eat 
and drink more than is proper, and should sometimes not exceed ; and Lord Bacon has a 
remark which leads one to believe he held a similar opinion ; but there can be no doubt of the 
incorrectness of this opinion. It has been truly said that the first general rule of Hippocrates, 
which prescribes continual moderation, is much truer, and the best writers on hygiene, ancient 
and modern, have decided against Celsus. Besides being erroneous, the rule of Celsus opens a 
door to intemperance, and, like a harmless sentence in Hippocrates, has been twisted to serve 
the argument of gourmands. Its influence is felt even at the present day. This much is 
certain, that probably 30 per cent, of the persons who consult physicians owe their diseases in 



478 INDIVIDUAL HYGIENIC MANAGEMENT. 

tion of the food is necessary, and it is extraordinary how many affections of 
the stomach called dyspepsia arise simply from faulty mastication, from defi- 
cient teeth, or from swallowing the food too rapidly. Many persons who are 
too thin are so from their own habits ; they eat chiefly meat, and eat it very 
fast ; they should eat slowly, and take more bread and starchy substances. 
Fat persons, on the other hand, by lessening the amount of starch, and taking 
more exercise, can lessen with the greatest ease the amount of fat to any 
amount. (See page 141.) It must be remembered, however, that there is 
a certain individual conformation in this respect ; some persons are normally 
fatter or thinner than others. 

The exact amount of exercise must also be a matter of individual decision, 
it being remembered that great exercise in the free air is a paramount condi- 
tion of health, and that the healthiest persons are those who have most of it. 
As a rule, persons take far too little exercise, especially educated women, who 
are not obliged to work.* 

Attention to the skin is another matter of personal hygiene. 

The skin must be kept perfectly clean, and well clothed. Some writers, 
indeed, have advised that, if food be plentiful, few clothes be worn ; but the 
best authors do not agree in this, but recommend the surface to be well pro- 
tected. For cleanliness, cold bathing and friction hold the first rank. The 
effect of cold is to improve apparently the nutrition of the skin, so that it 
afterwards acts more readily, and when combined with friction, it is curious 
to see how the very colour and texture of the skin manifestly improve. 

The effect of heat on the skin, and especially the action of the Roman or 
Turkish baths, and their action on health, has certainly not yet been properly 
worked out, in spite of the numerous papers which have been written. It 
has not been proved that the strong action of the Turkish bath is more 
healthy in the long run than the application of cold water. As a curative 
agent, it is no doubt extremely useful ; but as a daily custom, it is yet sub 
judice. Certainly it should not be used without the concluding application 
of cold to the surface. 

The care of the bowels is another matter of personal hygiene, and is a 
matter of much greater difficulty than at first sight appears. Constipation, as 
allowing food to remain even to decomposition, as leading to distension and 
sacculation of the colon, and to haemorrhoids, is to be avoided. But, on the 
other hand, the constant use of purgative medicine is destructive of digestion 
and proper absorption ; and the use of clysters, though less hurtful to the 
stomach, and less objectionable altogether, is by no means desirable. On the 
whole, it would seem that proper relief of the bowels can be usually insured 
by exercise, and especially by bringing the abdominal muscles into play, and 
by the use of certain articles of diet, viz., pure water in good quantity with 
meals, the use of bran bread, honey, and such gently laxative food ; and that 
if these do not answer well, it is better to allow a certain amount of consti- 
pation than to fall into the frequent use of purgative medicines. 

The regulation of the passions must also be left to the individual. In these 
days of too early sexual life, 110 subject is perhaps more important than this 
one. In how many ways are health and vigour injured by the want of control ? 
To say nothing of the venereal diseases, with all their consequences, how much 

some way to food, and in many cases they are perfectly aware themselves of their error or bad 
habit, but, with the singular inconsistency of human nature, either conceal it from the man to 
whom they are professing perfect openness, or manage to blind themselves to its existence. 

* Compare the imperfect development of the muscles of the arms in ladies, as shown by the 
low evening dresses, with the women of the working classes. No one can doubt which is 
healthiest or which is most beautiful, until excess of work developes in the muscles of the 
labouring woman the too hard outlines of middle life. 



INDIVIDUAL HYGIENIC MANAGEMENT. 479 

evil results even from unbridled erotic thoughts and the habits which some- 
times follow ? But the young often err only from ignorance, and should be 
taught that perfect health and vigour are only possible when there is perfect 
sexual health. 

Among soldiers the amount of venereal disease is discussed in another 
chapter. The practice of masturbation is, I believe, in our own army happily 
uncommon ; in other armies a few expressions by authors lead me to think it 
is less uncommon ; but it is a subject which, in spite of its importance, few 
have cared to look into. 

The amount of mental work, and the practice of general good temper and 
cheerfulness and hope, are other points which each man must himself control. 
Great mental work can be borne well if hygienic principles of diet, exercise, 
&c., be attended to. The old authors paid great attention to the regimen 
of men engrossed in literary work, and laid down particular rules, insisting 
especially on a very careful and moderate diet, and on exercise.* 

Hope and cheerfulness are great aids to health, no doubt, from their effect 
on digestion. Usually, too, they are combined with a quick and active tem- 
perament, and with rapid bodily movements and love of exercise. 

The individual application of general hygienic rules will differ according to 
the sex and age,t and the circumstances of the person. In the case of children 
we have to apply the general rules with as much caution and care as possible, 
and we must depend on external evidence to prove their utility. In the case 
of adults, individual experience soon shows whether or not a prescribed rule 
is or is not beneficial, and what modification must be made in it. It is not, 
however, every grown person who has the power to modify or change his con- 
dition. He may be under the influence of others who, in fact, arrange for 
him the circumstances of his life. But still, in no case is all self-control taken 
away ; the individual can always influence the conditions of his own health. 
Probably even in the case of soldiers he has more power over his own welfare 
than other persons have. 

Were the laws of health and of physiology better understood, how great 
would be the effect ! Let us hope that matters of such great moment may 
not always be considered of less importance than the languages of extinct 
nations, or the unimportant facts of a dead history. 

* Plutarch, whose rules on health are excellent, and chiefly taken from Hippocrates, compares 
the over-studious man to the camel in the fable, who, refusing to ease the ox in due time of his 
load, was forced at last to carry not only the ox's own load, but the ox himself, when he died 
under his burden. 

f Galen was the first who pointed out explicitly that hygienic rules must be different for in- 
fancy, youth, manhood, and old age a fourfold division which is still the best. Pythagoras, 
Iccus, Herodicus, Hippocrates, Polybus, Diocles, Celsus, and others who preceded Galen, appear 
to have framed rules chiefly for male adults. Galen sub-divided the subject much more sys- 
tematically. (For a good short account of the early systems, see Mackenzie on " The History of 
Health, and the Art of Preserving it," 1758.) 



CHAPTEE XX. 
STATISTICS. 

AN accurate basis of facts, derived from a sufficient amount of experience, and 
tabulated with the proper precision, lies at the very foundation of hygiene, 
as of all exact sciences. Army surgeons have already contributed much im- 
portant statistical ev'dence as to the amount and prevalence of different 
diseases, and it is evident that no other body of medical practitioners possess 
such opportunities of collecting, with accuracy, facts of this kind, both among 
their own nations and others. As they have to make many statistical returns, 
it seems desirable to make a few brief remarks on some elementary points of 
statistics, which are necessary to secure the requisite accuracy in collecting 
and arranging facts. But it is, of course, impossible for me to enter into the 
mathematical consideration of this subject ; even were I competent, a separate 
treatise would be required to do justice to it. 

SECTION I. 

A FEW ELEMENTARY POINTS CONNECTED WITH GENERAL 
STATISTICS. 

1. The elements of statistical inquiries are individual facts, or so-called 
numerical units, which having to be put together, or classed, must have pre- 
cise, definite, and constant characters. For example, if a number of cases of 
a certain disease are to be assembled in one group with a definite signification, 
it is indispensable that each of these cases should be what it purports to be, 
an unit not only of a definite character, but of the same character as the other 
units. In other words, an accurate diagnosis of the disease is essential, or 
statistical analysis can only produce error. If the numerical units are not 
precise and comparable, it is better not to use them. A great responsibility 
rests on those who send in inaccurate statistical tables of diseases ; for it must 
be remembered that the statist does not attempt to determine if his units are 
correct ; he simply accepts them, and it is only if the results he brings out 
are different from prior results that he begins to suspect inaccuracy.* 

* It is in vain to conceal the fact that many persons look at tables of diseases collected in- 
discriminately as worse than useless, from errors in diagnosis. Even in the army returns, 
which are all furnished by qiialified practitioners, there is reason to doubt the correctness of the 
earlier tables especially. But it is believed that the army returns of diseases are now gaining 
in accuracy, and it cannot be too strongly urged on medical officers, that perfect accuracy in 



STATISTICS. 481 

2. These items or numerical units being furnished to the calculator, are by 
him arranged into groups. That is to say, he contemplates the apparently 
homogeneous units in another light, by selecting some characteristic which 
is not common to all of them, and so divides them into groups. To take 
the most simple case ; a certain number of children are born in a year to a 
given population. The children are the numerical units. They can then be 
separated into groups by the dividing character of sex ; and then into other 
groups by the dividing character of " born alive," or " still born," &c. 

Or, a number of cases of sickness being given, these numerical units (all 
agreeing in this one point that health is lost) are divided into groups by 
diseases, &c. ; these groups, again, are divided into others by the character of 
age, &c., and in this way the original large group is analysed, and separated 
into minor parts. 

This group-building seems simple, but to properly group complex facts, so 
as to analyse them, and to bring out all the possible inferences, can only be 
done by the most subtle and logical minds. The dividing character must be 
so definite as to leave no doubt into which group an unit shall fall. This 
rule is of the greatest importance, and many examples could be pointed out 
of error from inattention to it. The dividing character must be precise 
enough to prevent the possibility of an unit being in two groups at the same 
time. It may be useful to give one or two examples of erroneous dividing 
characters.* 

Example to show the Incorrect Mode employed in forming the Groups. 

Subject to be investigated by numbers, = Causes of Insanity. 

Nature of numerical units, . . = Insane persons. 

Author collecting the cases, . . = Esquirol. 

{Hereditary, . = 337 

Domestic troubles, = 278 

Sexual excesses, . = 148 

Drinking, &c., . = 134 

897 

Objection. Dividing character ambiguous ; an insane case may fall into 
two, three, or four of the above groups. The only plan of stating the facts 
is by forming a number of definite groups and sub-groups, mutually exclusive 
of each other. (See Table, next page.) 

Another very common error is illustrated by Annesley's statistics of dysen- 
tery in India. He gives so many cases as occurring in the dry, the wet, and 
cold seasons. The dividing character is then the season; but the three 
seasons differ in duration. There is a difference in time,, and a correction 
must be made, as the dividing character is not uniform. So also in stating 
the number of cases of disease per month, given by a certain force, the divid- 
ing character is slightly incorrect, as the months are of unequal length. Many 
other examples will present themselves in medical works. 

diagnosis is a duty of the highest kind. It is much better to have a large heading of undeter- 
mined diseases, than, when in doubt, to put a case of disease under a heading to which it has no 
unequivocal pretensions. 

* See Schweig in " Archiv. fur phys. Heilk," 1854, p. 305, for several examples. 

2 H 



482 



STATISTICS. 



Groups which would be necessary to give any value to EsquiroTs figures. 



First Group. 


Second Group. 


Third Group. 


Fourth Group. 






Domestic 


/ Sexual excesses. 


( Drinking. 
I No drinking. 






troubles. 


\ 










I No sexual excesses. 


( Drinking. 


Hereditary. 


* 






\ No drinking. 






No domestic 
troubles. 


/'Sexual excesses. 


( Drinking. 
\ No drinking. 






I No sexual excesses- 


f Drinking. 
( No drinking. 






Domestic 


/ Sexual excesses. 


( Drinking. 
( No drinking. 






troubles. 


V No sexual excesses. 


( Drinking. 


Not hereditary. 








I No drinking. 






No domestic 


/ Sexual excesses. 


( Drinking. 
\ No drinking. 






troubles. 


I No sexual excesses. 


f Drinking. 
| No drinking. 



Having decided on the groups, their numerical relations are then expressed 
in figures, for example : 

3. In order to express the relation of the smaller groups to the gross 
number of individual facts or units, a constant numerical standard must be 
selected, else comparison between groups of unequal numbers cannot be made. 
The standard universally adopted in medical statistics is to state this rela- 
tion as a percentage, or some multiple of a percentage. So much per cent., 
or per 1000, or per 10,000, is the standard. This is got simply by multiplying 
the number of units in the smaller group by 100, and dividing by the total 
number of units. Thus, let us say there occur 362 cases of pneumonia ; this 
is divided into two groups of recovered or died, say 343 recoveries and 19 
deaths ; and their relation may be expressed in one of two ways, viz., either 
by the relation of the deaths to the total number of cases, which will be 



19x100 
362 



= 5'248 per cent. 



of mortality ; or by the relation of the deaths to recoveries, viz. 

19x100 

gg = 5-54 per cent. 

4. Having established that in a certain number of cases, divided into 
groups, the number in each group bears a certain proportion to the whole, 
how far are we justified in concluding that the same proportions will be 
repeated in future cases ? This will chiefly depend on the number of the cases. 
If the number of cases from which one proportion has been taken is small, we 
can have no confidence that the same proportion will be repeated in future 
cases. If the number is large, there is a greater probability that the proper- 



CALCULATION OF AVERAGES. 483 

tion in succeeding numbers of equal magnitude will be the same. The result 
obtained even from a very large number is, however, only an approximation 
to the truth, and the degree in which it approaches the truth can be obtained 
by calculation. The following rule is given by Poisson for calculating the 
limits of error, or, in other words, the degree of approximation to the truth : 

Let fj. be the total number of cases recorded. 
m be the number in one group. 
n be the number in the other. 

So that m + n = /*. 

The proportion of each group to the whole will be respectively and -, 

M /* 

but these proportions will vary within certain limits in succeeding instances. 
The extent of variation will be within the proportions represented by 




and 

It will be obvious that the larger the value of p the less will be the value of 
' 3 ' ? and consequently the less will be the limits of error in the simple 

proportion OL m 
P-' 

An example will show how this rule is worked. The following is given by 
Gavarret (Statisque Medicale, 1840, p. 284) : 

Louis, in his work on Typhoid Fever, endeavours to determine the effect 
of remedies, and gives 140 cases, with 52 deaths and 88 recoveries. What is 
the mortality per cent., and how near is it to the true proportion ? 

m = 52 = number of deaths. 
n = 88 = number of recoveries. 



fj, = 140 = total number of cases. 

i.e., 37 deaths in 100 cases, or more precisely 37,143 deaths in 100,000 cases. 
How near is this ratio to the truth ? The possible error is as follows the 
second half of the formula, viz. 



will be 



2 x 52x88 A11KKA ^ 

=0-1 1550 to unity. 



(uo)a 
(Or 11,550 in 100,000.) 

The mortality being 37'143 per cent., or 37,143 deaths in 100,000 cases, 
in these cases, it may be in other 140 cases either 

37,143 + 11,550 = 48-693 per cent, 
or 37,143-11,550 = 25-593 

In other words, in successive 140 cases the mortality will range from 49 per 

2 H 2- 



484 STATISTICS. 

cent, (nearly) to 26 per cent, (nearly), so that Louis' numbers are far too few 
to give even an approximation to the true mean. 

5. There being a number of facts, each of which can be expressed by a 
numerical value, an average or mean number is obtained by adding all the 
numerical values, and dividing by the number of facts.* 

In many cases the method by successive means is very useful. This con- 
sists in taking the mean of the mean numbers successively derived from a 
constantly repeated series of events (say the mortality to a given population 
yearly). Supposing, for example, the annual mortality in England to be, in 
successive years, 22, 23, 21, 26, 23, 21, 22, 28, 22, 21, per 1000 living, the 
successive means would be 

22 + 23 22 + 23 + 21 22 + 23 + 21 + 26 



23 4 

and so on, until the numbers are so great as to give every time the same result. 
It is useful to calculate the successive means in both the direct and inverse 
order, viz., from first to last, and then from last to first, i.e., putting the two 
last together, then the three last, &c., so as to see if the variation was greater 
at the end of a series than at the beginning. The degree of uncertainty is 
then the mean variation between the successive means, t 

A plan almost the same as this has been used ; a certain number of facts 
being recorded, the sum is divided into two, three, or more parts, and it is 
then seen whether the results drawn from these lesser groups agree with that 
drawn from the larger group and with each other. If there is any great 
difference of results, the numbers of the lesser groups are not sufficient. In 
the instance given above, the mean of the ten years is 22 '9 ; the mean of the 
first three years is 22 ; of the second three years is 2 3 '33 ; of the third three 
years is 24. The term of three years is therefore far too short to allow a safe 
conclusion to be drawn. The mean of five years again is 23, and of eight 
years is 2 2 '8, numbers which are much nearer each other and the mean of the 
whole ten years. 

The application of averages when obtained is of great importance, but 
there is one usual error. The results obtained from an average (that is, from 
the mean result obtained from a number of units, not one of which perhaps 
is the same as the mean result, but either above or below it) can never be 
applied to a particular case. On either side the average there is always a 
range the value of which may be obtained by Poisson's rule as above, and the 
particular case may be at either end of the range. The use of the average is 
to apply it to an aggregate of facts, then supposing it be founded on a suffi- 
cient number of cases, it will be exact. But a particular case can never be 
judged of by the average. 

6. In addition to averages, it is always desirable to note extreme values, 
that is, the two ends of the scale of which the average is the middle. To use 
Dr Guy's pointed expression, " averages are numerical expressions of pro- 
babilities ; extreme values are expressions of possibilities."^: In taking too 
great note of mean quantities, we may forget how great a range there may be 
above and below them, and it is by reminding, us constantly of this that 
Poisson's rule is so useful. 

* The arithmetical mean is used in medical inquiries ; but there is, in addition, the geometrical, 
harmonic, and quadratic means. For an account of these, and for many rules, I beg to refer 
to Dr Bond's translation of Professor Radicke's Essay, New Sydenham Society Publ. vol. xi. 

"I* The mean error is best obtained by taking the square root of the sum of the square of the 
errors ; but the arithmetic mean error that is, the sum of the errors divided by the number of 
means --gives a tolerably close approach. 

+ Cyclopjcdia of Anatomy and Physiology Art. Statistics. 



CALCULATION OF AVERAGES. 485 

7. Statistical results are now frequently expressed by graphic representa- 
tions, a certain space drawn to scale representing a number. The most 
simple plan is that of intersecting horizontal and vertical lines. 

Two lines, one horizontal (axis of the abscissa?), and the other vertical (axis 
of the ordinates), form two sides of a square, and are then divided into seg- 
ments, drawn to scale vertical and horizontal lines are then let fall on the 
points marked ; the axis of the ordinates representing, for example, a certain 
time, and the axis of the abscissae representing the number of events occurring 
at any time. A line drawn through the points of intersection of these two 
quantities forms a graphic representation of their relation to each other, and 
the surface thus cut can be also measured and expressed in area if required, or 
the space can be plotted out in various ways, in columns, pyramids, &c. In 
the same way circles cutting radii at distances from the centre drawn to scale 
are very useful ; the circles marking time (in the example chosen), and the radii 
events, or the reverse. In the Eegistrar-General's reports on cholera,* and in 
many of the works on the army, these plans are employed. Such graphic 
representations are most useful, and allow the mind to seize more easily than 
by rows of figures the connection between two conditions or events. It is 
possible to construct tables showing the relation of three variable quantities, 
but this is seldom required in medical statistics. 

Generally speaking, it may be said that the amounts of sickness and mor- 
tality in different bodies of men, or in the same body of men at successive 
periods, show such wide variations that the mean error is always very great, 
and it requires a very large number of cases, and an extended period, to deduce 
a probable true mean. For this reason it is necessary to be cautious in appor- 
tioning blame or credit to persons, or to special modes of treatment, unless 
the numbers are very large and accordant. The circumstances influencing the 
result are, in fact, very numerous, and the proper estimation of a numerical 
result is only possible when it is considered in reference to the circumstances 
under which it occurs. 

The most important statistical inquiries applied to health are 

1. Births to Population. To obtain all these elementary facts, an accurate 
census and proper registration are required. It is only within the last few 
years that the most civilised nations have commenced these inquiries. 

2. Relative Number of Live and Still-Born, of Premature and Full-Grown 
Children. 

3. Number of Children Dying in the First Year, with Sub-Groups of Sex, 
and Months. There are two great periods of mortality in the first year, viz., 
in the first week, and at the time of weaning, about the seventh month. 

4. Amount of Sickness to Population. 

(a.) Number constantly sick, grouped according to sex, age, occupa- 
tion, and diseases. 
(b.) Average duration of sickness, &c. 

5. Amount of Yearly Mortality in a Population, or Deaths to Population. 
The deaths are generally expressed as so many deaths to 1000 or 10,000 

living ; but the deaths can be calculated in relation not only to the number 
living at the end of the time, but to that number plus a certain addition to 
be made on account of those persons who lived during part of the time, but 
died before its close. But the difference is not material. Grouped according 
to sex, age, &c. 



* See also a paper by Dr Domeniclietti in the "Journal of the Royal United Service 
Institute/' published 1864. 



486 



STATISTICS. 



6. Mean Age at Death of a Population is the Sum of the Ages at Death, 
divided by the Deaths. The mean age at death, expresses, of course, the ex- 
pectation of life at birth, or the mean lifetime. It is no very good test of the 
health of a people, as a great infant mortality may reduce the age, though the 
health of the adults may "be extremely good. 

7. Mean Duration of Life (vie moyenne). This is the expectation of life 
at birth ; at any other age than birth, it is the expectation of life at that age 
(as taken from a life table) added to the age. It is no good test of sanitary 
condition or health. 

8. Probable Duration of Life (vie probable; probable lifetime) is the age 
at which a given number of children born into the world at the same time 
will be reduced one-half. (See table, p. 491.) 

9. Expectation of Life, or Mean Future or After Lifetime. Tliis is the 
true test of the health of a people. It is the average length of time a person 
of any age may be expected to live ; and in order to construct it, we must 
know the number of the living, their ages, the number of deaths and the ages, 
and the other changes in the population caused by births, emigration, immi- 
gration, &c.* It does not, of course, follow that any particular person will 
live the time given in such a table; he may die before or after the period, but 
taking a large number of cases, the average is then found to apply. Life- 
tables show at a glance the expectation of life at any age, and a part of Dr 
Farr's new life-table for England is given farther on. 

It may be useful to subjoin a few tables for comparison with army statistics, 
or with the vital statistics of the nations among whom the army is serving, if 
they can be procured. 

Ratio constantly Sick and Mortality among the general Male Population 

in England and Wales. 
(This and the following table are useful for comparison with the illness of soldiers). 



Age. 


Number per cent, con- 
stantly sick. 


Mortality per cent, 
of the whole popula- 
tion sick and well. 
(Neison.) 


16 to 20 


1-5938 


730 


21 25 
26 30 


1-6469 ) 
1-7335 / 


974 


31 35 

36 40 


1-7785 ) 
2-0611 / 


1-110 


41 45 


2-5852 ) 




46 50 


3-3048 / 


1-452 


51 55 


4-4675 ) 


9-9^4. 


56 60 


6-3025 } 


w ^t/TT 


61 65 
66 70 


10-5736 ) 
21 -4000) 


4-259 


71 75 

76 80 


35-3960 ) 
50-1088 / 


9-097 



As a rule, it appears that for every death in England there are two persons 
constantly sick. Then, among the whole population there are, we will say, 
22 deaths yearly per 1000. Then there will be 44 persons per 1000 constantly 
sick. 

* The early life-tables were very imperfect. Halley's table (" Philosophical Transactions ") 
was the earliest, and was framed on the tables of the deaths in Breslau during five years only 



STATISTICAL INQUIRIES. 



487 



Weeks per Annum Lost ~by Sickness l>y Members of Friendly Societies from 
Twenty to Seventy Years of Age (Nelson). 



Age. 


Average Sickness per Annum to each Person in Weeks or Decimals of a Week. 


Rural District. 


Town District. 


City District. 


The Three Districts 
combined. 


20 


8387 


8564 


5659 


8398 


25 


8630 


8649 


9650 


8744 


30 


8753 


8794 


1-1059 


9107 


35 


8991 


1-0114 


1-2372 


9836 


40 


1-0677 


1-2669 


1-4663 


1-1808 


50 


1-5896 


2-5559 


2-3831 


1-9603 


60 


3-8531 


4-9132 


4-4973 


4-1657 


70 


14-1949 


15-4995 


9-9610 


14-0391 



The average yearly amount of sickness given in the earlier tables of friendly 
societies (viz., in the Highland Society's and in Mr Ansell's tables) is less 
than this, and is, in fact, too low. Owing to this error, almost all the earlier 
friendly societies have broken down. The actual sickness has been more than 
80 per cent, above that calculated on by the earlier societies. 

It must be remembered, when comparing this sickness with that of soldiers, 
that members of friendly societies are generally well-conducted, sober, well- 
to-do men, and do not report sick for trifling ailments, as soldiers do. 

MORTALITY PER 1000 LIVING PER ANNUM. 
England and Wales. 

Male perlOOO aaleS ' ^S 1000 8 ' Males " Females " 

23 ' 15 21 ' 68 22 ' 36 l in 42 ' 76 l in 46 ' 33 

For 103 deaths of males, there are 100 of females. 

Taking both sexes, and the average of 22 years ending with 1859, there 
is 1 death to 45 living. 

In 1859 it was 1 in 46 
1860, 1 in 46-85 

1860 was one of the healthiest years ever known in England. 
The mortality in the healthiest districts is from 15 to 17 per 1000 living. 
,, unhealthiest ,, ,, 26 to 30 

Scotland. 
The annual death-rate in Scotland is less than in England, being 21 per 

(1687-1691), as given by Caspar Neumann ; as the numbers of the living were not accurately 
known, the calculation was very incorrect. In 1746, Deparcieux published a better life-table ; 
and subsequently, Smart constructed a table from the London bills of mortality, which was 
published by Simpson in 1752; in Germany, Siissmilch constructed a similar table in 1761. 
Both these were useless. In 1771, Price published his work " On Reversionary Payments," in 
which were contained the celebrated Northampton tables. In France, Duvillard soon after 
constructed similar tables. Other tables have been published by Leonard! (for Saxony), 
Quetelet (for Belgium), Henschling, &c., all of which are more or less inaccurate. In England, 
the Carlisle tables were prepared some time after the Northampton, but referred, I believe, to 
a period little later than the former tables ; more recently, tables were drawn up by Finlaison 
and Morgan, and in 1854 an excellent life-table, drawn up by Dr Farr, was published in the 
Registrar-General's Report. A new life-table, based on the census of 1861, has just been pre- 
pared by Dr Farr. The true principles of construction are laid down by Dr Farr in his paper 
in the " Philosophical Transactions" (1859). 



488 



STATISTICS. 



1000 (both sexes). This is chiefly from the salubrity of the rural districts, 
the mortality of the large towns Glasgow, Leith, &c. is very high. 



France. 

Both Sexes. 
Per 1000. 

24-58 
23-97 
26-70 
21-39 
22- 



1 in 40-68 
1 in 42. 
1 in 37-45. 
1 in 46-7. 
1 in 45-45. 



Mean of 5 years, 1855-9, 
Mean of 16 years, 
In 1859, .... 
In 1860, .... 
In 1860-62, 

(These variations probably arise from an imperfect registration.) 

In Paris* the mortality in the years 1845-1849 was 31'2 per 1000. 

1850-1854 28-6 
1855-1859 28 
1860-1863 25 

Prussia. 
Both sexes, . . . 26'58 per 1000, or 1 in 38. 

Austria. 
. . 29-95 per 1000, or 1 in 33. 

Norway. 
... 17-9 per 1000, or 1 in 55-6. 

Sweden. 
... 20-4 per 1000, or 1 in 48-94. 

Russia. 

... 35-90 per 1000, or 1 in 28. 

In Central Europe, 1 person dies annually in 36 of the population. 

Mortality per cent, per annum (according to Ages and Sexes) in England 
and Wales. Mean of 10 Years, 1845-54. 



Age. 


Males. 


Females. 




Per cent. 


Per cent. 


to 4, 


7-356 


6-343 


5,9, . . 


916 


895 


10 ,14, . . 


523 


546 


15 ,24, . . 


833 


863 


25 , 34, . 


1-015 


1-083 


35 ,44, . . 


1-309 


1-293 


45 , 54, . 


1-895 


1-617 


55 , 64, . 


3-226 


2-855 


65 , 74, . . 


6-755 


6-104 


75 ,84, . . 


14-991 


13-652 


85 , 94, . 


30-294 


28-076 


95 and upwards, 


45-219 


45-226 



Journal de la Soc. de Stat. de Paris, 1865, p. 47. 



STATISTICAL TABLES. 



489 



Healthy Districts in England, Mortality per cent. (1849-1853). 



Age. 


Persons. 


Males. 


Females. 


All ages, 


1-753 


1-772 


1-733 


Under 5, . 


4-036 


4-348 


3-720 


5, ... 


688 


674 


702 


10, . . . 


431 


384 


480 


15, . 


728 


691 


765 


25, . . . 


857 


818 


894 


35, . . . 


964 


928 


998 


45, . . . 


1-232 


1-273 


1-192 


55, . 


2-228 


2-294 


2-162 


65, . . . 


5-228 


5-486 


4-992 


75, .. 


12-304 


12-817 


11-866 


85, . . . 


27-399 


28-350 


26-711 


95 and upwards, 


42-813 


40-000 


45-000 



Average Expectation of Life (Mean After-lifetime) in the whole Population. 

At the age noted in the Table, a person has the average chance of living 
the number of years opposite the age. 



Age. 


ENGLAND.* 


NETHERLANDS, t 


SWEDEN, t 


FRANCE. 


Males. 


Females. 


Males. 


Females. 


Males. 


Females. 










1850-1859. 


1850-1859. 


1841-1853. 


1841-1853. 


1855-1859. 





39-91 


41-85 


34-12 


36-43 


41-28 


42-04 




1 


46-65 


47-31 


45-67 


45-27 


48-29 


47-36 


... 


2 


48-83 


49-40 


47-54 


48-12 


49-27 


49-38 




3 


49-61 


50-20 


48-59 


49-16 


49-68 


50-25 




4 


49-81 


50-43 


48-82 


49-39 


49-68 


50-56 


... 


5 


49-71 


50-33 


48-68 


49-23 


49-4 


50-53 


49-6 


10 


47-05 


47-67 


45-91 


46-51 


46-48 


47-86 




20 


39-48 


40-29 


38-26 


39-17 


38-55 


40-65 


39-2 


30 


32-76 


33-81 


31-75 


32-40 


31-22 


34-06 




40 


26-06 


27-34 


24-96 


26-36 


24-33 


27-50 


25-10 


50 


19-54 


20-75 


18-46 


19-73 


18-02 


20-84 




60 


13-53 


14-34 


12-78 


13-31 


12-31 


14-49 


12-7 


70 


8-45 


9-02 


7-91 


8-07 


7-40 


9-12 




80 


4-93 


5-26 


4-36 


4-47 


3-88 


5-34 


... 


90 


2-84 


3-01 


2-36 


2-67 


2-42 


3-09 




95 


2-17 


2-29 


2-51 


2-62 


2-00 


2-38 




100 


1-68 


1-76 


1-00 


1-00 


... 


1-86 


... 



After the first year the chances of living increase up to the fourth year ; 
the fifth year is nearly as good, and then the chances of life lessen, but at first 



* Abridged from Dr FarrVLife Tables, constructed from census of 1861, and published in 1864. 
t Copied from Hendrik's paper in the " Statistical Journal," December 1863. The numbers 
given by Wargentin for Sweden, and Kerschoom for Holland, are slightly different. 



490 



STATISTICS. 



slowly, and then more rapidly. From five to forty years of age the expecta- 
tion of life lessens in the ratio of from 2J to 3| or 3f years for each quin- 
quennial period. It may be useful to give a table from Farr, to show the 
expectation of life in the most healthy districts in England. The mean age 
at death is seen from this table. Of the whole population in those districts, 
it is 48-56 years for males, and 49 -45 years for females. The mean age at 
death of those males who live 5 years is 54*39 years, &c. 



Healthy Districts (England) Life-Table (Farr, 1859). 



Age 
(or Past-life- 
time). 


MALES. 


FEMALES. 


Mean After-life- 
time of Males 
of the Age x. 


Mean Age at 
Death of Males 
actually living 
at the Age x. 


Mean After-life- 
time of Females 
of the Age x. 


Mean Age at 
Death of Females 
actually living 
at the Age x. 





48-56 


48-56 


49-45 


49-45 


5 


54-39 


59-39 


53-93 


58-93 


10 


51-28 


61-28 


50-88 


60-88 


15 


47-20 


62-20 


47-04 


62-04 


20 


43-40 


63-40 


43-50 


63-50 


25 


39-93 


64-93 


40-18 


65-18 


30 


36-45 


66-45 


36-35 


66-85 


35 


32-90 


67-90 


33-46 


68-46 


40 


29-29 


-69-29 


30-00 


70-00 


45 


25-65 


70-65 


26-46 


71-46 


50 


22-03 


72-03 


22-87' 


72-87 


55 


18-49 


73-49 


19-24 


74-24 


60 


15-06 


75-06 


15-69 


75-69 


65 


12-00 


77-00 


12-58 


77-58 


70 


9-37 


79-37 


9-85 


79-85 


75 


7-15 


82-15 


7-52 


82-52 


80 


5-37 


85-37 


5-64 


85-64 


85 


4-01 


89-01 


4-19 


89-19 


90 


2-99 


92-99 


3-11 


93-11 


95 


2-25 


97-25 


2-32 


97-32 


100 


1-69 


101-69 


1-75 


101-75 



In the healthy districts in England the half of 100,000 children are dead 
between the 58th and 59th year, so that the probable duration of life in such 
districts is between 58 and 59 years (58 years and 10 months nearly). The 
probable duration of life in healthy districts at any age can be calculated from 
the following table. Thus, supposing a person is 30 years of age ; at that 
age there are 69,792 persons living; the half of this is 34,896, and this 
number is reached (nearly) at 70 years the probable duration of life at 30 
years in the healthy districts of England is then (70 30 = ) 40 years. The 
number dying in each period can be calculated from the table ; thus, in the 
first year of life there die = (100,000 - 89,705) 10,295, and so on. 



ARMY STATISTICS. 



491 



TABLE to show the probable duration of life in one of the most healthy 
countries in the world, viz., in the healthy districts in England (Farr) : 
In 100,000 children (both sexes} born alive. 



Age. 


Living. 


Age. 


Living. 


Age. 


Living. 





100,000 


25 


72,755 


70 


34,278 


1 


89,705 


30 


69,792 


75 


24,721 


2 


86,700 


35 


66,794 


80 


14,971 


3 


84,815 


40 


63,756 


85 


6,996 


4 


83,510 


45 


60,602 


90 


2,265 


5 


82,459 


50 


57,203 


95 


446 


10 


79,525 


55 


53,408 


100 


46 


15 


77,857 


60 


48,855 


105 


2 


20 


75,600 


65 


42,460 


106 


1 



Probable Duration of Life in other Countries. 
Of 10,000 children born alive there live at the several periods noted below 



After the course of 


In Prussia. 


In Baden. 


In Belgium. 


1 year, . . . 


7506 


7180 


7753 


2 ... 




6550 


7054 


3 ... 


6316 


6286 


6653 


5 ... 


5825 


5872 


6244 


10 ... 


5301 


5614 


5825 


15 ... 


. . . 


5400 


5602 


20 ... 


4852 


5198 


5345 


25 ... 


4572 


4969 


4999 


30 ... 


4303 


4730 


4675 


35 ... 


4030 


4476 


4382 


40 ... 


3748 


4210 


4088 


45 ... 


3417 


3895 


3790 


50 ... 


3078 


3539 


3478 


55 ... 


2688 


3099 


3117 


60 ... 


2264 


2660 


2724 


65 ... 


1735 


2081 


2246 


70 ... 


1242 


1435 


1701 


75 ... 


768 


822 


1127 


80 ... 


399 


348 


586 


85 ... 


160 


110 


246 


90 ... 


51 


22 


68 


95 ... 




3 


15 


100 . . . 


... 


... 


1 



Or, in other words, there die in Prussia in the' first year 
(10,000 - 7506 = ) 2494 children, or one quarter of all born living. 



of life 



Relative Number of Male and Female Births. 
To every 1000 boys, there were born :- 



In England (1839), . 954 girls. 

In England (1856), . 959 

In France (1836-40), . 943 

In France (1851-55), . 947 



In Prussia (1852), 
Belgium and Holland. 
Sardinia (1828-37) 



942 girls. 
940 
951 



Canton Zurich (1850-52), 953 



492 STATISTICS. 

SECTION II. 
AEMY STATISTICS.* 

At the close of the Peninsular War in 1814, Sir James M'Grigor com- 
menced the collection of the statistics of disease and mortality in the English 
army, and during the course of the next twenty years, a great amount of 
valuable evidence was accumulated. In 1835 Dr Henry Marshall (Deputy- 
Inspector of Hospitals, and one of the most philosophical surgeons who have 
ever served in the English army) commenced to put these returns into shape, 
and the late Major-Gen eral Sir Alexander Tulloch, K.C.B. (at that time a 
lieutenant in the 45th Regiment, employed in the War Office), was associated 
with him. In the following year, on the retirement of Dr Marshall, Dr 
Balfour, the present head of the Statistical Branch of the Army Medical De- 
partment, was appointed as his successor, and in conjunction with Sir A. 
Tulloch, brought out the series of reports on the health of the army which 
have had such influence, not merely on the causes of the sickness and morta- 
lity among soldiers, but indirectly on those of the civil population also. In 
1838-1841, reports were issued of the following stations, United Kingdom, 
Mediterranean, and British America, West Indies, Western Africa, St Helena, 
Cape, Mauritius, Ceylon, and Tenasserim. 

These returns included the years 1827-1836. In 1853 another report con- 
taining the stations of the troops in the United Kingdom, Mediterranean, and 
British America, including the years 1836-1846, was prepared by the same 
gentlemen. 

In these reports, in addition to the statistical analysis, short but most 
graphic and comprehensive topographical and climatic accounts of the differ- 
ent stations were given. 

The effect of these several reports, and especially of the earlier issues, was 
to direct the attention of the Government, both to the fact of an enormous 
sickness and mortality, and to its causes, and then commenced the gradual 
series of improvements which at a latter period were urged on by Lord Her- 
bert with so much energy. 

The Russian War of 1854-1855 prevented any further publication until 
1859, when yearly reports were commenced by Dr Balfour, and have been 
regularly issued since. In the report for 1860, Dr Balfour has given a sum- 
mary of the earlier and later mortality of the different stations before and after 
1837, which shows a remarkable difference in favour of the later periods as 
regards both sickness and mortality, t 

SUB-SECTION I. 

With respect to soldiers in time of peace, the statistical evidence is required 
to show the amount of benefit the State receives from its soldiers, and the 
amount of loss it suffers yearly from disease. Tables should therefore show 

1. The amount of loss of strength a definite number of men in each arm of 
the service suffers in a year 

(a.) By deaths, or, in other words, the mortality to strength. 

(&.) By invaliding from disease,^ for if this is not regarded, different 

* The short summary of the history of the Army Statistical Reports is chiefly taken from Dr 
Balfour's account, in the Army Medical Report for I860, p. 131. 

t In the chapter on INDIA, I have mentioned the chief statistical papers which refer to that 
country. 

J Loss by purchase of discharge, expiration of term of service, imprisonments, and dismissals 
from the army, must also' be put under separate headings ; but the medical officer has nothing to 
do with this point, except to see that such cases are not confounded with invaliding from disease. 



ARMY STATISTICS. 493 

systems and modes of invaliding may entirely vitiate any conclusions drawn 
from the mortality. 

The groups thus formed must again be subdivided, so as to show 

(a.) The causes of death or invaliding. 

(b.) The ages of those who die or who are invalided. 

(c.) Their length of service. It is of great importance to determine the in- 
fluence of service in every year, and these groups should be again divided by 
ages. 

2. The loss of effective service a definite number of men say, 1000 in each 
arm suffers during a year. This is best expressed as follows : 

(a.) The total number of cases of disease in a year, i.e., the number of ad- 
missions to hospital per annum. It must be understood that this does not 
express the number of men admitted, as one man may be admitted two, three, 
or even ten times with the same disease ; each admission counts as a fresh 
case. It would be very important to have another table showing the number 
of men admitted for different diseases, or, in other words, the number of cases 
of re-admission for the same disease. 

(b.) The number constantly sick on an average. This is often called the 
sick population, and is obtained most easily in army hospitals by dividing the 
number of diets issued in a year by the purveyor by 365, or adding all the 
" remaining" on the daily or weekly states together, and dividing by 365 or 
52, as the case may be. 

(c.) The total number of days lost in a J^f to the service by illness by the 
1000 men, and the number of days per heacL The number of the sick popu- 
lation (that is, the number constantly sick out of, say 1000 men) multiplied 
by 365 and divided by 1000, or by the number furnishing the sick, whatever 
that may be, gives these facts. 

(d.) The mortality in relation to sickness. 

The group constituted by the sick must then be subdivided by diseases, 
and often it is useful to make other lesser groups by distributing the causes 
of sickness under ages or length of service. 

There are a few points which require attention. The amount of sickness 
and mortality is calculated on the mean strength, that is, the number of men 
of a regiment present at a certain station on the muster days divided by the 
number of muster days. But it must be understood that this includes the 
sick men in hospital as well as the healthy men, and therefore does not 
perfectly express the amount of disease among the healthy men. Also some- 
times the muster rolls of a regiment include men on detachment at some dis- 
tance, whose sickness is not attributable to the headquarter station. The 
French, in their late Army Statistical Eeturn (for 1862), make two headings, 
one of " mean strength" (effectif moyenne), and the other of " present" 
(presents), the men in hospital not being included in the latter. Moreover, 
in the French army, nearly one-sixth are always absent on leave ; and the 
deaths of those on leave are included among the army deaths, but the sickness 
is not so. Consequently, sickness has to be calculated on the number not 
on leave ; deaths, on the total strength. In the French army, officers are in- 
cluded with the men ; in the English, separate returns are made. 

It is often difficult to get the mean strength if there are many changes of 
troops, and instances of erroneous calculations from this cause are not un- 
common.* 

* I subjoin one which Dr Balfonr has given. It will be seen that an unhealthy station 
(Masulipatam) in India is credited with a much greater degree of health than it really was 
entitled to, and the annexed extract from Dr Balfour's paper (Edin. Med. and Surg. Jour., No. 
172) shows clearly how the mistake arose : 

"The [Madras] Medical Board, in submitting to Government the table from which these 



494 STATISTICS. 

In calculating also the effect of age and length of service upon disease and 
mortality, it is necessary to know not only the ages and length of service of 
the sick men, but of the healthy men also, and to calculate out the proportion 
of the sick to the healthy at that particular age or length of service, otherwise 
very erroneous conclusions might be drawn. For example, it might appear 
that sick men under nineteen years of age were very numerous in proportion 
to other years, but in a young army the greater number of the force might be 
of this age. Care is necessary in all these points to arrive at correct conclu- 
sions. 

SUB-SECTION II. 

In time of war the statistics must be slightly altered in form, though the 
same in principle. The object is to show as completely as possible to the 
General in command what amount of loss his army is suffering at the moment, 
and to what extent it may be expected to suffer, and also what are the causes 
of such sickness. 

The sickness here must not only be calculated on the mean strength (which 
will include the men in hospital), but also on the healthy men, or those 
actually under arms and effective. If the sick are counted in the strength, 
the sickness of the army may be much understated. What a General wants 
to know with regard, to sickness will be these points : 

1. How many men am I losing daily from the rank and file actually serving 
with the colours ? 

2. How many are replaced by discharge from hospital ? 

3. What is the balance, gain or loss ? 

4. If my effective force loses daily, when this balance is struck, such a per- 
centage, what will be its loss of strength in a week, in four weeks, in six 
weeks, &cJ 

5. What are the causes, i.e., what are the diseases which are causing this 
sickness, and how are they affected by special circumstances of age, particular 
service, or arms, or other causes ? 

The mortality in war should be calculated on the mean strength, that is, 
on the total number of healthy and sick, and on the sick alone, so as to repre- 
sent both the loss of the army and the fatality of the sickness. 

List of Statistical Returns required in the Army. 

1. Weekly Sick Return Home Service (form 294). 

2. Weekly Sick Return Foreign Service (form 294A). Nearly the same, 
but a heading " not yet diagnosed," and two fresh columns, are added for 
references to secondary diseases. Also a form for the names of men whose 

figures are computed, stated that the ratio of mortality among all the European regiments in 
the Presidency from January 1813 to December 1819, was 5 -690 per cent. ; while that of the 
regiments at Masulipatam, from 1813 to 1832 inclusive, was 5 '100 per cent. They then add 
' The rate of mortality having been somewhat lower than throughout the rest of the Presidency 
for such a period, gives reason to conclude that the station cannot be considered under ordinary 
circumstances as unhealthy. ' Now, the Board appears to have arrived at this conclusion from 
an error in the mode of calculating the ratio. In several of the years between 1813 and 1832 
the regiments were quartered at Masulipatam during part of the year only. It must be obvious 
to any one conversant with the principles of statistics, that in such a case a proportion of the 
annual strength only should be taken, corresponding with the period for which the regiment 
was quartered there. Thus, if the period was nine months, the sickness and mortality should 
be calculated on three-fourths of the strength ; if eight months, on two-thirds, and so forth. 
The Board, however, have made the calculation in every instance on the average annual strength 
without any such deduction. Had the necessary correction been made, the deaths from 1813 
to 1832 would have been found to average 6'394 per cent, annually, instead of 5-100, as above 
stated. " 



ARMY STATISTICS. 495 

diseases have been changed during the week. Some other forms relating to 
draughts, &c. 

3. Weekly Sick Return Active Service (form 151c). Same as home return. 

4. Monthly Return of Men Vaccinated (form 1118). 

5. Quarterly Sick Return United Kingdom (form 893). The headings 
for this are more numerous than in the weekly returns. Meteorological ob- 
servations required. 

6. Quarterly Return (form 89 3 A). Duplicate of a portion of above. 

7. Quarterly Return (form 893s). Foreign stations. 

8. Quarterly Return (form 893c). Duplicate of part of the above. 

9. Annual Return (comprising ten lesser returns and meteorological obser- 
vations). 

To accompany this return are 

1. Report of medical transactions (see Med. Reg., p. 107). 

2. Return of recruits. 

3. operations. 

4. deaths. 

5. ,, men of other corps. 

6. casualties. 

10. Return of Sick on Board Ship. 

11. Return of Wounds and Injuries Received in Action (form 151). 

12. Return of Wounds and Injuries Received in Action (form 15L\). Same 
as above, but extending over a definite time, not after a single action. 

13. Weekly Return of Admissions into Hospital from Men Occupying Huts 
and Barracks respectively. 

14. Medical History of an Individual. 

1 5. Return of Medical Officers. 



BOOK II. 



THE SERVICE OF THE SOLDIER. 

IN the First Book, the general principles of Hygiene were illustrated, as far 
as possible, by examples drawn from the life of the soldier ; but this does not 
exhaust the subject. It is necessary to consider a little more particularly 
the nature of the service of the soldier, and the influence it has on him. At 
the same time, it will be unnecessary to return to various points already 
sufficiently discussed in previous chapters. 

The life of the soldier is conveniently divided into five epochs : the period 
of entrance on his new life, and his first year's service his service at home 
abroad on board ship and during war. These five chapters include all 
that is important. 



CHAPTER I. 
THE RECRUIT. 

In the English army, young men are enlisted at or after seventeen or eighteen 
years of age,* unless they are intended for drummers. They must be of a 
certain height, which is fixed by regulation from time to time, according to 
the particular arm, and to the demands of the service. There must also be a 
special girth of the chest. 

In time of war, the measurements are reduced according to the demand for 
men ; and even in time of peace, the necessary height of the infantry recruit, 
usually 65 or 66 inches, has been sometimes only 5 feet 4 inches. Before 
the enlistment is completed, the recruit is examined by a medical officer, and 
then by the staff-surgeon of the recruiting district, according to a scheme laid 
down in the Medical Regulations t (p. 99). The scheme is a very good one, 

* In reality, they sometimes enlist under this age. 

f* For a full account of the system of recruiting, the mode of examination, and much useful 
information on disabilities, see a paper hy Dr Crawford in the " Army Medical Report for 
IM2.Blue-Book, 1864. 



HEIGHT AND WEIGHT. 



497 



and aims at investigating, as far as can be done, the mental condition ; the 
senses ; the general formation of the body, and especially of the chest ; the 
condition of the joints ; the state of the feet ; the absence of hernia, varico- 
cele, piles, &c. ; and the condition or physical examination of the heart, 
lungs, and abdominal organs generally.* A certain girth of chest according 
to the height is required. 

A Horse-Guards' order (No. 806, 14th January 1862) fixes the height and 
girth as under : 

TABLE formed to show the limits of Age, Standard Height, and Girth of Chest, 
of Recruits, required by General Order, No. 806, dated Horse Guards, 
Uth January 1862. 



CORPS. 


Limi 
Age. 


tsof 
Height. 


Minimum of Girth of Chest according to Varia- 
tions in Height in different Corps. 


Years. 


Inches. 


For Height of 


Girth of Chest must be 


CAVALRY 
Heavy 
Medium 
Light 


Min. 
18 
18 
18 


Max. 
25 
25 

25 


Min. 
68 
67 
66 


Max. 
71 
69 
68 


70 inches and upwards 
68 and under 70 
66 and under 68 


35 inches. 
34 
33 


MILITARY TRAIIT .... 


18 


25 


63 


66 


63 to 66 inches 


34 


KOYAL ARTILLERY 
Gunners 
Growing Lads . . . 
Drivers 
Artificers 


18 
17 unc 
18 
Notd 

18 
18 


25 
ler 18 
25 
jflned 

25 
25 


67 <fe upwards 
66 & upwards 
64 | 66 
66 & upwards 

fi6 & upwards 
64 | 66 


Same as Cavalry 
Not defined 
64 inches to 66 inches 
Not defined 

Same as Cavalry 
64 inches to 66 inches 


Same as Cavalry. 
Not defined. 
34 inches. 
Not defined. 

Same as Cavalry. 
34 inches. 


HOYAL ENGINEERS 
Sappers . 


Drivers 


INFANTRY * 
China, India. St Helena,) 
and New South Wales f 
Rifle Brigade and 60th) 
Regiment . . . ) 


17 
18 

17 


25 
25 

25 


66 & upwards 
66 & upwards 

66 & upwards 


Same as Cavalry 
Same as Cavalry 

66 inches and upwards 


Same as Cavalry. 
Same as Cavalry 

34 inches. 


CAPE MOUNTED RIFLES . 
Boys and Lads . . . 
Boys and Lads for R. E. 


16 
14 
14 


18 
16 
15 


60 | 63 
) In the pro 


Not defined 
)ortion of one boy to one 
and chest measurement 


Not defined, 
hundred men. Height 
not defined. 


The recruit is to be measured round the chest in a line over the nipples, with his arms placed 
straight above his head, the backs of his hands touching each other, and the edges of the feet close 
together, and at the same time made to count the numbers from one to ten, in a loud tone of voice 
and slowly. 


* By Horse-Guards' order of 4th March 1864, the standard for infantry recruits was reduced 
to 65 inches, the measurement round the chest being 33 inches, except for rifle corps, when it is to be 
34 inches. 



After joining his regiment he is again examined, and may be rejected if 
any defect is discovered. Eejections may take place then either at the primary 
or secondary inspection. 

Both the average weight and height, especially the latter, will vary with 
the demand for men. 

The trades of the men furnishing the recruits must also vary greatly from 
year to year. 

In 1860 and 1861, out of every 1000 recruits from all parts of the kingdom, 
labourers, husbandmen, and servants, furnished about one-half; mechanics 

* As the Medical Regulations are in the hands of all medical officers, it is unnecessary to go 
into more detail on this point. My colleague, Professor Longmore, uses in the Army Medical 
School a set form of examination, which renders it almost impossible that any point should 
be overlooked. 

2 i 



498 



THE RECRUIT. 



employed in occupations favourable to physical development, about one- 
quarter ; manufacturing artisans (as cloth-workers, weavers, &c.), about one- 
sixth ; shopmen, a little less than one-tenth ; and the small remainder was 
made up of professional occupations, students, and boys.* 

The average weight of the British recruit, as given by Dr Balfour, was 
among 10,000 recruits : 



WEIGHT. 


1860. 


1861. 


1862. 


1863. 


Below 100 K>, 


157 


209 


411 


280 


From 100 to 110 ,. . 


663 


365 


117 


134 


110 120 ,. . 


2,296 


1,651 


1,183 


1,002 


120 130 ,. . 


2,817 


2,581 


2,458 


2,610 


130 140 ,. . 


2,090 


2,539 


2,831 


3,050 


140 150 ,. . 


1,254 


1,679 


1,761 


1,786 


150 160 ,. . 


488 


652 


805 


777 


160 170 ,. . 


180 


240 


330 


286 


Above 170 ft), .... 


55 


84 


74 


75 




10,000 


10,000 


10,000 


10,000 



The height was as follows in the four years : 



HEIGHT. 


I860. 


1861. 


1862. 


1863. 


Under 63 inches, . . 


150 


201 


419 


365 


63 to 64 ... 


580 


52 


66 


157 


64 65 ... 


2,409 


1,823 


592 


251 


65 66 ... 


2,075 


1,552 


816 


691 


66 67 "... 


1,764 


1,917 


3,105 


4,049 


67 68 ... 


1,243 


1,890 


2,358 


2,232 


68 69 ... 


811 


1,268 


1,308 


1,162 


69 70 ... 


480 


685 


767 


641 


70 71 ... 


293 


425 


350 


259 


71 72 ... 


138 


156 


150 


136 


Over 72 


57 


91 


69 


57 




10,000 


10,000 


10,000 


10,000 



The number of recruits drawn from each division of the kingdom varies 
with the state of trade, degree of distress, emigration, &c. In 1860-1862, of 
every 1000 recruits, 553 were English, 127 Scotch, 314 Irish, and 6 foreign 
and colonial. 

After the recruit has been enlisted and approved, he joins his depot or his 
regiment ; receives his free kit, which he subsequently in part keeps up at his 
own cost ; and is put on the soldier's rations. He enters at once on his drill, 
which occupies from 3J to 4J hours daily. Wherever gymnasia are estab- 
lished, he goes through a two-months' course of gymnastic training for one hour 
every day. He then goes to rifle drill, which lasts about six weeks, and then 



* For further detailed information, see Dr Balfour's reports in the "Army Medical Reports." 
Blue- Books. 



HABITS. 499 

joins the ranks. After the rifle drill, he has another month's gymnastic train- 
ing, and is then supposed to be a finished soldier. 

The total number of rejections, either at once or after re-examination by a 
second Medical officer, on various grounds, of men brought by the recruiting 
serjeant to the medical officer, varies somewhat from year to year. The ratio 
in 1860-61 was 293 per 1000, in 1862, 401, and in 1863, 441 per 1000 in 
each year. Of these rejections, some are primary (/. e., at once by the examin- 
ing officer), and some secondary (i.e. t by the staff-surgeon of the district or at 
the head-quarters of the regiment). 

About f ths of the rejections arise from causes connected with general bad 
health or feeble constitution, and th from causes affecting the marching powers 
of the men (Ealfour). 

In the French army, the height was fixed in!860at69 inches (1 '76 metres) 
for the carabiniers, and 61 J inches (1'56 metres) for the infantry of the 
line. 

The rejections in the French conscription includes men rejected for insuf- 
ficient height, as well as reasons of health. Excluding the former, the 
exemptions from infirmities amount (1850-58 inclusive) to 267'6 per 1000.* 

Such being the system, it will be desirable to consider certain points. 

1. The Age of the Recruit. Strong opinions have been expressed by Bal- 
lingall (English army), Levy (French army), Hammond (American army), and 
other army surgeons, that the age of 17 or 18 is too low that the youngest 
recruit should be 20 or 21 years of age. 

This opinion is based both on actual experience of the effect produced on 
boys of 17 to 20 when exposed to the hardships of war, or even to heavy duty 
in time of peace, and on a physiological consideration of the extreme immatu- 
rity of the body at 18 years of age. 

With regard to the first point, there is no doubt that to send young lads of 
18 to 20 into the field, is not only a lamentable waste of material, but is posi- 
tive cruelty. At that age such soldiers, as Napoleon said, merely strew the 
roadside and fill the hospital. The most effective armies have been those in 
which the youngest soldiers have been 22 years of age. 

With regard to the second, it is also certain that at 18 the muscles and 
bones are very immature, and, in fact, it is not till 25 years of age, or even 
later, that all the epiphyses of the bones have united, and that the muscles 
have attained their full growth, t 

The epiphyses of the transverse and spinous processes of the vertebrae 
hardly commence to ossify before 16 years of age, and it is not till after 20 
years that the two thin circular plates form on the body of the vertebrae. 
The whole process is not completed till close on the 30th year. The consoli- 
dation of the sacrum only commences at the 18th year, and is completed from 
the 25th to the 30th. The fourth and third bones of the sternum are only 
united between the 20th and 25th years, and the second is not united to the 
third bone before the 35th year. The epiphyses of the ribs commence to 
grow between the 16th and the 20th years, and are completed by the 25th 
year. The epiphyses of the scapula join between the ages of 22 and 25. The 
epiphysis of the clavicle begins to form between the 18th and 20th years. 
The internal condyle of the humerus unites at 18, but the upper epiphysis 
does not join till the 20th year. The epiphyses of the radius and ulna, the 
femur, the tibia, and fibula, are all unjoined at 18 years, and are not com- 
pletely joined till 25 years. The epiphyses of the pelvic bones (viz., crest of 

* Sistach, "Recueil de Mem. Mil." 1861, Nov., p. 353.'? 

t See Aitken's " Growth of the Recruit and Young Soldier," 1862. 

2 i 2 



500 THE RECliUIT. 

ilium, spine, and tuberosity of the ischium) "begin to form at puberty, and are 
completed by the 25th year.* 

That the muscles are equally immature is just as certain ; they grow in size 
and strength in proportion to the bones. 

These facts show how wrong it is to expect any great and long-continued 
exercise offeree from men so young as 18 and 20, and what will be the in- 
evitable consequences of taxing them beyond their strength. 

Are we, then, to conclude that the soldier should not be enlisted before 20 1 

It appears to me that the case stands thus. If the State will recognise the 
immaturity of the recruit of 18 years of age, and will proportion his training 
and his work to his growth, and will abstain from considering him fit for the 
heavy duties of peace and for the emergencies of war till he is at least 20 years 
of age, then it would seem that there is not only no loss, but a great gain, by 
enlisting men early. At that most critical period of life the recruits can be 
brought under judicious training, can have precisely the amount of exercise 
and the kind of diet best fitted for them, and thus in two years be more fully 
developed, and be made more efficient, than if they had been left in civil life. 

2. The Height and Weight of the Recruit. The desire of almost all military 
officers is to get tall men. The most favoured regiments, especially the 
cavalry, get the tallest men. It has been recommended both that shorter men 
should be generally taken, and that the infantry should have the tallest men. 
The last point is one for military men to determine, and must be decided by 
considerations of the respective modes of action of cavalry and infantry. 

The first point is entirely physiological, and opens a difficult question. 
"What is the height, at 18 years of age, which is attended with the greatest 
amount of health, strength, and endurance, or is it possible to fix such a 
standard ? 

Tables of average height and weight have been compiled by Quetelet and 
much used, and lately somewhat similar tables have been framed by Danson, 
Eoyd, and Liharzik.t With regard to all of these it may be said that the 
observations (however numerous) are yet too few for such a large question, 
and that the influence of race has been too little regarded.^ 

Boyd gives the height at 18 years at 60-4 inches, and at 25 years at 67 
inches, and Liharzik at the same ages give 64*17 and 68 -9 inches. The Eng- 
lish army returns (1860-63) give the following numbers, but it must be under- 
stood that we cannot deduce the mean height of the population from these 
figures, as the shorter men are not taken as recruits (see table, page 502). 

Although these numbers are not very accordant, we may perhaps assume 
that at 18 the average height will be something near 64 or 65 inches, and the 
average weight about 124 ft). 

But the difficulty of the case only commences here ; taking the age at 1 8 
(for over 20 the case is simple), what is the range above and below the average 
which is consistent with perfect health and growth ? How far is it safe to 
apply an average to an individual ? Will not an excess of weight and height 
imply that an individual comes of a larger race, or has been better fed and 
nourished, and is so far a stronger man than he who only just reaches the 
average? 

The range, in fact, appears to be very great, as much as six inches above 
and below the mean (Danson) ; i. e., a boy at 18 may be 58 or 71 inches tall. 

* See Aitkeu's " Growth of the Recruit," p. 37, andQuain's "Anatomy, "for still fuller details. 

f Liharzik's number professes to be based on a law induced from great numbers of measure- 
ments in different animals. 

J Boudin, in a late paper on the size of the French conscript, is inclined to attribute differences 
in height more to race than to any other condition. 



HABITS. 



501 



But are these extremes consistent with perfect health, such as we demand in 
a recruit ? It seems very doubtful if they are. 



The following are the Averages given by Quetelet (Belgians) and by Danson 
(English criminals}, at the Ages when Recruits are enlisted : 



Age. 


Height. 


Weight. 


Quetelet. 


Danson. 


Quetelet. 


Danson. 




Inches. 


Inches. 


H> avoir. 


H> avoir. 


16 


57 




109 




17 


64-3 




116 




18 


65-2 


64-34 


126 


122| 


19 


... 


64-94 




130f 


20 


65-9 


65-11 


132 


131J 


25 


66-1 


66-3 


138 


1451 



It may be well to put the same question in rather a different way. In the 
English army the minimum height has been always (except in times of great 
emergency) above the mean height of the population at that age. Has the 
State, then, secured a larger framed and more powerful set of men by only 
taking those who are above the mean height, or has it unnecessarily limited 
its choice? 

The experience of other armies cannot answer this question. The French 
height for infantry is 61^ English inches, or 2|- below the mean. The Austrian 
height for infantry is 60 inches; in the Prussian army* the least height (in 
English inches) of the recruits for the cuirassiers is 65-9 inches, and the great- 
est 69 inches ; for the light cavalry (hussars and dragoons), the least height 
is 63'8, the greatest 68 inches. In the Jager battalions the height is not less 
than 63*8 inches (English), and not more than 69 inches. Men of 60 inches 
are, however, exceptionally taken, if strongly built. In the infantry (not 
Jager) the least height is 63 -8 inches, but men of 60 inches are also occasion- 
ally taken. In the Northern American army the height of the infantry was, 
in 1863, fixed at 63 inches (Hammond), but men are really taken as low as 
60 inches, t 

It is therefore clear that the great military nations go 2 inches or even more 
below the mean height of the population at the recruiting age, and find no 
injury to the quality of their soldiers, and it would certainly appear unnecessary 
that the English should fix their standard at 1 inch above the mean height 
for infantry, and 2 or 4 inches for cavalry. But this does not settle the ques- 
tion, as it may still be argued that the taller men are most desirable when 
they can be procured, although shorter men may answer very well when others 
cannot be obtained. I really know of no good evidence which can settle this 
question. 

The best rule to guide us is that given by Dr Aitken, viz., to take into 
consideration the three points of age, height, and weight, and if either in 
weight or height, or both together, there is any great divergence from the 
mean, then something wrong will probably be found. But as long as weight 
and height are in accord, the taller and heavier the man the better, as a rule. 



* Prager, Das Preusissche Militaire-Med. Wesen, 1864, p. 312. 
t The minimum height of the Roman soldier was 62 inches. 



502 



THE RECKUIT. 



The height and weight of the recruits from 18 to 19 years of age are given in 
the following tables : 



Heights of Recruits (inspected) between 18 and 19 years of age. 



HEIGHT. 


1860. 


1861. 


1862. 


1863. 


Under 63 inches . . . 


44 






34 


63 to 64 ... 


443 


23 


23 


40 


64 ,,65 ... 


2553 


932 


212 


93 


65 66 ... 


1786 


678 


203 


242 


66 67 ... 


1053 


574 


821 


1784 


67 68 ... 


629 


497 


460 


651 


68 69 ... 


268 


254 


161 


244 


69 70 ... 


116 


123 


70 


115 


70 71 ... 


52 


58 


38 


25 


71 72 ... 


20 


16 


9 


13 


72 and over, .... 


2 


5 


3 


5 



Weights of Recruits between 18 and 19 years of age. 



WEIGHT. 


1860. 


1861. 


1862. 


1863. 


Under 100 1> ... 


68 


11 


4 


7 


100 to 110 .".". 


923 


227 


24 


46 


110 120 . . . 


2978 


961 


414 


525 


120 130 . . . 


1768 


1021 


604 


1191 


130 140 . . . 


784 


616 


536 


987 


140 150 . . . 


344 


255 


229 


353 


150 160 ...,. 


83 


55 


67 


102 


160 170 . . . 


18 


13 


17 


26 


170 and over, . . . 


... 


1 


5 


9 



One point is, however, quite clear. When the height is much below the 
mean, the bodily development generally is bad. Hammond states that, in the 
American war, men of less than 5 feet have broken down by a few weeks' 
campaigning, while men of 5 feet have stood the work well. Probably 62 
inches at 18 years of age, and 1121btoll61) weight, should be a minimum, 
even in times of the greatest pressure. So also a very great height at 18 years 
of age is objectionable, and anything over 67 inches at that age should be 
looked on with great suspicion. As a rule, also, adult men of middle size 
(67 to 69 inches) appear to bear hard work better than taller men. There is 
one alteration in the regulations which would be desirable, viz., that the re- 
quired height and weight at the respective ages should be expressly named ; 
at present the minimum height for the whole range of years from 18 to 25 is 
alone stated in the Horse-Guards' Circular. 

With regard to weight alone, the rule is simple. Unless there be any great 
disproportion in height, the heavier the recruit is the better; this will be 
found a rule with very few exceptions. 

3. The Physical Training of the Recruit. A great improvement has been 
introduced by the late order that each recruit shall have three months' gym- 
nastic training. If properly done, this will have a most beneficial effect. 



HABITS. 503 

The medical officer will have power to continue this if necessary, and care 
should be taken to use this power (see chapter on GYMNASTIC TRAINING for 
the points to be attended to by the medical officer). 

It would be very desirable to make a rule that no soldier under 19 years 
of age should carry his pack, except on parades for inspection of kit ; he 
should be excused the pack in marching out, field-days, and drills. Indeed, it 
may be questioned whether this rule should not be extended till 20 years of age. 
The young soldier under 19 or 20 years of age should also be excused from 
guard ; heavy guard duty, even an amount which gives three nights in bed 
out of four, is too much for an immature frame. In fact, the soldier, till he 
is 20 years of age, should be spared all heavy duty. The time thus saved 
would be well spent in other matters presently to be noted. 

4. The Mental Training. Since the introduction of rifle practice, the trade 
of the soldier has become much more interesting to him ; he is now taught 
scientifically how to manage his arm, and learns to take interest in his shoot- 
ing. It would be most desirable to give him some knowledge of the Military 
Art, and of the object of the different manoeuvres he goes through. A military 
literature fitted for the private soldier is still wanting. It is also very im- 
portant to train him for the field, and to teach him to perform for himself 
all the offices which in time of war he will have to do not merely trench 
work, but hutting, cooking, washing and mending his clothes, as in time of 
war (see WAR). It is too late, at the commencement of a campaign, to begin 
these necessary parts of a soldier's education; they should form part of his 
training as a recruit ; and if he is excused guard and other duties during his 
first year, there would be ample time. 

Great attention is now being directed to the importance of soldiers keeping 
up their trades, or learning some trade if they have none. Such a system 
occupies men, makes them contented, keeps them from dissipation, and opens 
a career for them when they leave the army. Instead of interfering with their 
military training, it can be made to subserve it, and possibly might be found 
to be advantageous to the State, even in a pecuniary point of view. The 
recruit then would have to keep up or learji his trade. 

5. The Moral Training. The recruit, on entering the army, is brought 
under moral influences of a strong kind. A discipline always rigorous, and 
sometimes severe, produces often a ready obedience and a submission of cha- 
racter, and, when not carried too far, greatly improves him. At the same time, 
independence is preserved by the knowledge which the soldier has of his 
rights and privileges, and the result is a manly, conscientious, and fine 
character. But occasionally, a too sensitive nature on the part of the recruit, 
or a discipline too harsh or capricious on the part of his officers, produces very 
different results, and the soldier becomes cunning, artful, and false, or morose 
and malicious. The two characters are often seen well marked in old soldiers, 
and no contrast can be greater than between the two. A heavy responsibility 
rests, then, with the officers of the army who have power thus to influence 
for good or evil natures like their own. 

The influence of companionship is also brought to bear on the recruit, and 
is fraught with both good and evil. The latter probably predominates, though 
there are many excellent, high-minded, and religious men in the army. In- 
deed, in some regiments the proportion of steady religious men is perhaps 
beyond the number in the analogous class in civil life. But if the influences 
be for bad, the recruit soon learns some questionable habits and some vices. 

Thus he almost invariably learns to smoke, if he has not acquired this habit 
before. It is indeed remarkable what a habit smoking tobacco is in every 
army of Europe ; it seems to have become a necessity with the men, and 



504 THE EECEUIT. 

arises probably from the amount of spare time the soldier has, and which he 
does not know what to do with. A recruit, on joining, finds all his comrades 
smoking, and is driven into the habit. 

The discussion on the effects of tobacco does not seem to have led to any 
clear conclusions. The immoderate use brings many evils to digestion and 
circulation especially. But no great evil appears to result from the moderate 
use, though no good can be traced to it. In moderation it has not been 
proved to lessen appetite, to encourage drinking, or to destroy procreative 
power. But, on the other hand, it probably lessens bodily, and perhaps even 
mental, activity, in spite of the illustrious examples to the contrary. It is 
certainly remarkable how uniformly the best trainers prohibit its use, and 
men of the highest physical vigour are seldom, I believe, great, and often are 
not even moderate, smokers. As it is of no use, and indeed injurious, by 
bringing men under the thraldom of a habit, it seems very desirable to dis- 
courage it. 

But in the army it seems useless to fight against this custom, nor is it 
indeed one which is sufficiently injurious to be seriously combated, except 
for one reason. In time of war, the soldier often cannot obtain tobacco, and 
he then suffers seriously from the deprivation. The soldier should have no 
habits which he may be compelled to lay aside, and which it would pain him 
to omit. As the time of the soldier becomes more and more occupied with 
his vocation and with a trade, it is possible that the amount of smoking may 
lessen. 

A much more serious matter is the vice of drinking, which many recruits 
are almost forced into, in spite of themselves. The discipline of the army 
represses much open drunkenness, though there is enough of this, but it can- 
not prevent, it even aids, covert drinking up to the very edge of the law. 
Formerly, a most lamentable canteen custom made almost every man a 
drunkard, and a young boy just enlisted soon learned to take his morning 
dram, a habit which, in civil life, would mark only the matured drunkard. 
Now, happily, spirits are not sold in the canteens, and no regulation thrusts 
raw spirits down a man's throat. 

Drinking, is, however, still the worst vice of the army, and that which 
strikes most of all at the efficiency of the soldier. 

How is this great vice to be combated ? The Duke of Wellington, in 1845, 
abolished teetotal societies in regiments, in accordance with the general prin- 
ciple of allowing in the army no form of combination. The great influence 
of a common cause and enthusiasm cannot therefore be used. We must look 
to the same causes to remove drunkenness in the army as in civil life ; an 
improved tone in this respect among officers ; the influence of officers, and 
especially medical officers, with their men ; more occupation for the men, and 
the establishment of reading-rooms and soldiers' institutes, which, in several 
places, have done marvels in lessening drinking. 

Another vice is almost as certainly contracted as smoking by the recruit. 
Probably, before enlistment, he has led no very pure life, but when he enters 
the army, he is almost sure to find his moral tone higher than that of some 
of his new associates. A regiment, in fact, is composed of young men with 
few scruples and small restraints. Prevented from marriage, and not able, 
indeed, to look forward to it, as civilians do; tempted by low prostitutes, who, 
to the disgrace of our laws, are permitted to hang about every barrack, and to 
haunt every neighbouring public-house, it is no wonder if, to the extent of 
his means, the soldier indulges in promiscuous sexual intercourse. He does 
this, in fact, to excess, and the young recruit is led at once into similar habits. 
That many recruits are most seriously injured by tliis habit, even if they 



HABITS. 505 

neither contract syphilis nor gonorrhoea, is, I believe, certain. The remedies 
for this have been already discussed (p. 468). 

It has also been supposed that solitary vice is particularly rife in armies. 
I am unaware of any evidence on this point, and believe that, in the English 
army, such habits are uncommon. 

6. The Amount of Sickness and Mortality suffered by the Recruit during 
the First Six Months and Year of Service. This is an extremely important 
matter, but at present we are not able to answer the question for the English 
army. (See page 398 for a few facts.) 

In the French army,* the amount of sickness among soldiers under one 
year of service is more than one-third greater than among the army generally ; 
this is partly caused by slight injuries, though not solely, for the admissions 
to hospital t are nearly one-fourth more among them than in the army at large. 
In 1862, the mortality from disease under one year's service was 11 P 45. In 
1863, it was 13 "2 6 per 1000 of strength of that service, which is much greater 
than the mortality at all ages (which was 8 -31 and 9-16 in 1862 and 1863.) 

A School for Recruits. Looking to the very great importance of properly 
training the recruit in all ways, and recognising the fact that an army badly 
recruited was never yet made a good one, it may be questioned whether the 
present system of enlisting a man for a particular regiment, and sending him 
at once to his regiment or depot, is the best that can be adopted. It would 
seem much wiser to conduct his physical training altogether apart from the 
older men, to give him a different and more nutritious diet than the full- 
grown man requires, and to secure him, as far as can be, from the bad in- 
fluences of injurious companionship. 

In a school for recruits, not only could physical, mental, and moral training 
be much better conducted than under the present system, but men might be 
selected for the different arms of the service ; weakly men might be got rid of, 
or employed in the corps requiring least vigour of body. 

Six months' training at such a school would be the best possible initiation, 
nor would the State lose any period of service in reality. If the recruit 
entered the ranks at six months instead of three, the trifling loss would be 
far more than compensated by the greater vigour and the lessened sickness. 

* Statistique Medicale de I'Armee pendant 1'Annee 1862. Paris, 1864, p. 11. Ibid, pendant 
1'Annee, 1863. Paris, 1865, p. 51. 

f The French treat some cases in barracks, some in the regimental infirmaries, some (the 
severe cases) in general hospitals. 



CHAPTER II. 
HOME SERVICE. 

THE recruit having entered the ranks, begins his service, we will assume, at 
home. This does not necessarily follow, for he may be soon sent out to his 
regiment serving abroad. Usually, however, he is kept at his depot as long 
as possible. It would be desirable, however, to make a rule that the first 
two years of service should always be at home. In previous chapters, the 
food, clothing, housing, &c., of the soldier have been discussed, so that I have 
now merely to describe the effects of the life upon him. 

We should suppose the life would be a healthy one. It is a muscular, and, 
to a certain extent, an open-air life, yet without great exposure or excessive 
labour ; the food is good (though there might be some improvement), the 
lodging is now becoming excellent, and the principles of sanitation of 
dwellings are carefully practised. Although the mode of clothing might be 
improved, there is not much that can affect health. There is a freedom from the 
pecuniary anxiety which often presses so hardly on the civil artisan, and in 
illness the soldier receives more immediate and greater care than is usual in 
the class from which he comes. 

There are some counterbalancing considerations. In a barrack, there is 
greater compression of the population than in the most crowded city, and 
beyond a doubt the soldier has greatly suffered, and even now suffers, from 
the foul air of barrack rooms. But this is a danger greatly lessening, owing 
to the exertions of the Barrack Improvement Commissioners, and, as is 
proved by the experience of some convict jails, can be altogether avoided. 

Among the duties of the soldier is some amount of night-work; it is 
certain that this is a serious strain, and the Sanitary Commissioners, therefore, 
inserted in the Medical Eegulations an order that the number of nights in bed 
should be carefully reported by medical officers. Commanding officers should 
be informed how seriously the guard and sentry duties, conducted as they are 
in full dress, tell on the men if they are too frequent ; one guard-day in five 
is quite often enough, and as there are often unnecessary posts, four nights in 
bed can usually be secured to the men, if the commanding officer is impressed 
with the importance of this matter. 

The weights and accoutrements are injurious, and of late years a practice 
has crept in of making the soldier carry his pack much more frequently than 
formerly. Twenty years ago he merely paraded twice a-week in heavy 
marching order for inspection. Now, he often carries his pack on field-days, 
sentry, and even regimental drill. Instead of accustoming men to the pack, 
and making it easier, it breaks them down ; but as this whole subject is 
under the consideration of the authorities, it is possible that alterations will 
be made. 



MORTALITY. 507 

The habits of the soldier are also unfavourable to health ; in the infantry, 
especially, he has much spare time on his hands, and ennui presses on him. 
Ennui is, in fact, the great bane of armies ; less in our own than in many 
others. It is said to weigh most heavily on the German, the Russian, and 
even on the French army. Hence, indeed, part of the restlessness, and one 
of the dangers of large standing armies. The Romans appear to have avoided 
this danger by making their distant legions stationary, and permitting mar- 
riage and settlement ; in fact, by converting them into military colonies. We 
avoid it in part by our frequent changes of place, and our Colonial and Indian 
service ; but not the less, both at home and abroad, do idleness and ennui, the 
parents of all evils, lead the soldier into habits which sap his health. Not 
merely excessive smoking, drinking, and debauchery, but in the tropics mere 
laziness and inertia have to be combated. Much is now being done by estab- 
lishing reading-rooms, trades, industrial exhibitions, &c., and by the encour- 
agement of athletic sports to occupy spare time, and already good results 
have been produced. 

The establishment of trades, especially, which will not only interest the 
soldier, but benefit him pecuniarily, is a matter of great importance. It has 
long been asked why an army should not do all its own work ; give the men 
the hope and opportunity of benefiting themselves, and ennui would no 
longer exist. In India, Sir Hugh' Rose has done most essential service by 
the establishment of trades, and the system, after long discussion and many 
reports, is now likely to be fully tried in England. 

Every military officer should remember that one of the proofs of ability for 
command and administration is the power of occupying his men, not in routine, 
but in interesting and pleasant work, to such an extent that rest and idle- 
ness may be welcomed as a change, not felt as a burden. Constant mental 
and much bodily movement is a necessity for all men ; it is for the officers to 
give to their men an impulse in the proper direction. 

Among the conditions of the soldier's life adverse to health, enforced celi- 
bacy must be reckoned. This produces not merely promiscuous intercourse, 
that terrible evil, but other effects. We do not require the statistical proof 
that both in the army and civil life married men have less illness and longer 
lives than single men ; we might be certain, a priori, that the great function 
of procreation cannot be thus endangered by the conditions we impose on our 
soldiers without injury. The continental system of conscription for limited 
periods has prevented this matter from assuming the importance it does in 
armies enlisted for long or permanent service, but as the soldier's trade is 
now becoming a skilled one, and as he will be retained for longer periods, it 
cannot be doubted that the great military powers will in a few years have to 
meet this difficult problem. 

For our own army the question is already pressing enough, nor is it easy 
to offer a solution ; it can only be hoped that some great soldier who has, 
what all great soldiers must have, a conviction of the importance and a know- 
ledge of the laws of health, may be found to reconcile the demands of military 
service with the dictates of a rule of nature. (See page 469.) 

The last point which, probably, makes the soldier's life less healthy than 
it would otherwise be, is the depressing moral effect of severe and harassing 
discipline. In our own army in former years, it is impossible to doubt that 
discipline was not merely unnecessarily severe, but was absolutely savage. An 
enlightened public opinion has gradually altered this, and with good command- 
ing officers, the discipline of some regiments is probably nearly perfect ; that is 
to say, regular, systematic, and unfailing, but from its very justice and regularity, 
and from its judiciousness, not felt as irksome and oppressive by the men. 



508 HOME SERVICE. 

The general result of the life at home on soldiers must now be considered. 

It is by no means easy to say whether soldiers enjoy as vigorous health as 
the classes from which they are drawn ; the comparison of the number of 
sick, or of days' work lost by illness by artisans, cannot be made, as soldiers 
often go into hospital for slight ailments which will not cause an artisan to 
give up work. The amount of comparative mortality seems the only avail- 
able test, though it cannot be considered a very good one. 

Following the order laid down in the chapter on STATISTICS, we have to 
consider 

SECTION I. 

L THE LOSS OF STRENGTH BY DEATH AND INVALIDING, 

PER 1000 PER ANNUM. 

(a.) By Death. It is to be understood that the mortality is here reckoned 
on the strength, that is, on the number of healthy persons actually serving 
during the time. The mortality on the sick is another matter. 

From the Parliamentary Statistical Returns of the Army (1840 and 1853, 
which include the years 1826-1846), we find that the mortality among the 
cavalry of the line was about ^d more than among the civil male population 
at the same age (nearly as 15 to 10* per 1000), among the Foot Guards more 
than double (very nearly 20 J per 1000 as against 10), among the Infantry of 
the line fths more (or nearly 18 per 1000 as against 10). 

The State was thus losing a large body of men annually in excess of what 
would have been the case had there been no army, and was therefore not only 
suffering a loss, but incurring a heavy responsibility. 

In the splendid men of the Household Brigade, diseases of the lungs (in- 
cluding phthisis) accounted for no less than 67' 7 per cent, of the deaths, in 
the cavalry of the line for nearly 50 per cent., and in the infantry of the line 
for 57 per cent. ; while among the civil population of the soldier's age, the 
proportion in all England and Wales was only 44*5 per cent, of the total 
deaths. The next chief causes of death were fevers, which accounted in the 
different arms of the service for from 7 to 1 4 per cent, of the total deaths. 
The remainder of the causes of deaths were made up of smaller items. 

These remarkable results were not peculiar to the English Army. Most 
armies did, some still do, lose more than the male civil population at the 
same age. The following are the most reliable statistics : t 

Per 1000. 





Army Loss. 


\jivu ropuiauon at 
Army Ages. 


France (1823), 


28-3 




France (Paixhans, 1846), 


. ' . 19-9 


about 11 


France (1862), 


9-42 


about 11-09 


(1863), . . 


9-22 




French in Algeria (1846), 


64 




(1862), 


12-21 


1 


(1863), 


12-29 




Italy (1862), 


17-69 


1 



* In reality the deaths from the civil male population of the soldiers' ages (20 to 40) were 
below 10, and in the healthy districts much below ; the case against the soldier is, therefore, 
even worse than it reads in the text. 

t Meyne (Elements de Stat. Med. Militaire, 1859) gives some of these figures ; others are 
taken from the reports of the different armies. 



MORTALITY. 509 

Per 1000. 
Army Loss. $$ 

French in Italy, (1863), . . 17-92 
Prussian, . . . . . 13-1 10? 

Kussian (series of years), . . 39 uncertain, but under 39. 

(1857-1861), . . . 18-7 

Austrian, 28 uncertain, but much less. 

Piedmontese (1859), ... 16 1 

United States (before the war), . 18 '8 probably about 11. 
Portuguese (1851-53), . . . 16'5 ? 

The Danish army, however, is as healthy as the civil population, losing 
only 9-5 per 1000. 

The Hanoverian army is healthier, losing only 5*3 per 1000 as against 9*5 
among the civil population of the same ages. 

In these foreign armies the same rule holds good ; fevers (chiefly typhoid in 
all probability) and phthisis were the great causes of mortality. In Prussia 
phthisis caused 27 per cent, of the total mortality, but in that army phthisical 
men are sent home, and after a certain time are struck off the rolls, so that 
the army deaths are thus fewer than they would be if the men died at their 
regiments. In Austria phthisis caused 25 deaths out of every 100 ; in France, 
22-9 ;* while in 1859, the proportion among the civil population was 17 '76 ; 
in Hanover, 39 '4 ; and in Belgium, 30 ; though in the latter country the pro- 
portion among the civil population was only 18 '97 deaths from phthisis per 
100 of all deaths. In Portugal the mortality from phthisis constitutes 22 per 
cent, of the deaths,t while in the civil population the deaths are 12 per cent, 
of the total deaths. In these armies, also, fevers caused a greater number of 
the deaths than in the English army, even in the period referred to. In 
Prussia, 36; in France, 26 $ in Belgium, 16*6; and in Hanover, 23-68 per 
cent, of all deaths were from fever (typhoid?). In Portugal only 3*9 deaths 
are from typhoid out of every 100 deaths; this is owing to its rarity in the 
country districts ; it is common in Lisbon. 

Nothing can prove more clearly that in all these armies the same causes are 
in action. And from what has been said in previous chapters, it may be con- 
cluded that the reason of the predominance of these two classes, lung diseases 
and typhoid fever, must be sought in the impure barrack air, and in the defec- 
tive removal of excreta. 

The Crimean war commenced in 1854, and ended in 1856. A large part 
of the army was destroyed, and a fresh force of younger men took its place. 
Soon afterwards, the great sanitary reforms of Lord Herbert commenced. In 

1859, yearly statistical returns began to be published, and have now (1866) 
been completed to 1863 (five years). 

In these five years the mortality of all arms underwent an extraordinary 
decrease from that of the former period. 

Mortality per Thousand per Annum, including Suicides and Violent Deaths. 
1859, -9-965; 1860,^9-95; 1861, = 9-24; 1862, = 8'72; 1863, = 8-86. 

In the different corps of the service the amount of mortality varied. In 

1860, for example, it ranged from as little as 1'55 in the Koyal Engineers, to 
19-08 in a Military Train battalion. 

* This was in 1860 ; I have calculated this from Laveran's returns from eleven of the great 
garrisons. In 1863, the mortality from typhoid in the French army was 1'87 deaths per 1000 
of effectives in France ; 1'63 in Algeria ; and 3 '55 in Italy. 

| Marques, reviewed in an excellent article in the British and Foreign Medico-Chir. Review 
for April, 1863. 

Laveran in 1860 made the number 25 '9 in the deaths from eleven garrisons. 



510 



HOME SERVICE. 



The diminution over the years previously noted (1826-46) is extraordinary. 
Three causes only can be assigned for it the youth of the army, and a better 
selection of men ; or a partial removal of the causes of diseases ; or earlier 
invaliding, so as to throw the fatal cases on the civil population. 

The question of age has been examined and disposed of by Dr Balfour,* 
who has shown that the youth of the army does not account for the lessening. 
Selection has always been made with equal care, and invaliding does not 
appear to have been in excess sufficient to account for the lessening, though 
it certainly has been greater of late years. There can be no doubt, then, that 
the great result of halving the yearly loss of the army by disease has been 
the work of Lord Herbert and the Royal Sanitary Commission. 

It will be observed (see table, p. 508) that the diminution in the mor- 
tality in the French army has also singularly lessened from 1846 to 1862 
and 1863, and this is, no doubt, owing to the great sanitary precautions now 
taken in that army. 

When in the last five years we examine the causes of death among 100 
deaths, taking out the principal diseases in order of fatality,t we find the 
result as follows : 



Ratio of Certain Causes of Death to Deaths from all Causes. 



1 


Diseases in order of fatality. 


Of every 100 deaths. 


1859. 


1860. 


1861. 


1862. 


1863. 


Mean of the 
five years. 


1. 


Tubercular diseases (scro- ) 
















fula, phthisis, hsemop- > 


37'9 


3179 


36-1 


41-6 


31-48 


35-77 




tysis), ) 














2. 


Diseases of heart and 


4-08 


6-68 


6-81 


7-36 


8-34 


7-28 




vessels, 














3. 


Violent deaths, exclusive 
















of suicides and execu- 


6-7 


514 


717 


5-47 


5'21 


6-56 




tions, 














4. 


Diseases of the nervous 
















system, exclusive of 


5-4 


4-5 


7-42 


5-48 


11-48 


6-09 




delirium tremens, 














5. 


Pneumonia, 


5-52 


7.4 


5-47 


5-82 


4-52 


5-88 


6. 


Fevers (typhoid, typhus, \ 
















and continued ; pro- > 


7-14 


4-32 


5-47 


6-16 


7-65 


5-52 




bably chiefly, typhoid) ) 














7. 


Bronchitis, acute, 


3-64 


3-39 


3-04 


3-42 


2-95 


3-28 


8. 


Suicides, 


2-9 


2-98 


1-12 


3.08 


3-13 


2-64 


9. 


Bronchitis, chronic, 


277 


2-26 


2-43 


2-39 


3-13 


2-59 


10. 


Delirium tremens, 


1-75 


1-23 


0-24 


1-2 


0-52 


0-98 




All other causes, 












24-29 


















100 



As the percentage of mortality of a certain disease to the whole number of 
deaths is not an accurate plan of stating the case, I have prepared the follow- 
ing table as testing more perfectly the amount of phthisis : 



* Report for 1859, p. 6. 

f* This table has been calculated from the table called "Appendix, No. I." in Dr Balfour's 
Reports ; the numbers in those tables only being used. 



MORTALITY. 



511 



Army. 

1859, 
1860, 
1861, 
1862, 
1863, 



Strength.* 

71,714 
83,386 
81,500 
76-029 
70-819 



Deaths from Deaths from phthis 
phthisis and and haemoptysis 
haemoptysis.* per 1000 living. 


269 


3-7 


322 


3-86 


276 


3-38 


243 


3-19 


179 


2-53 


Age. 




20 to 25 


3-5 


25 30 


4-0 


30 35 


4-1 


35 40 


4-1 


15 55 


3-7 


25 45 


4-02 


15 55 


4-5 


hospitals, 


5.0 


. . 


1-96 



Male civilians. f 
All England and Wales, 



55 

London, 

"Worst districts in England, excluding hospitals, 

Best districts in England, 

During the five years named, it thus appears that the mortality in the 
army hospitals from phthisis was not above that of the country generally, 
though it is greatly above that of the healthy districts; but then an im- 
portant element is omitted, viz., that a certain number of soldiers are invalided 
for phthisis, and swell the mortuary civil returns ; and some of these are lost 
sight of, and do not appear in the army returns. The following table, taken 
from Dr Balfour, shows the amount in the different arms : 

Tubercular Diseases (chiefly Phthisis and Haemoptysis, with some other 
Diseases (such as Morbus Coxarius, Scrofula, Tabes.) 



COUPS. 


Eate per 1000 of strength in 1860-2. 
Average of 3 years. 


Total of 
deaths and 
invalided in 
1863 per 
1000 of 
strength. 


Died. 


Invalided. 


Total. 


Household Cavalry, . . 
Dragoon Guards and Dragoons, 
Royal Artillery, .... 
Military Train, 
Foot Guards, 
Infantry Regiments, 
Cavalry Depots, .... 
Royal Artillery Depots, . . 
Depot Battalions, .... 


3-55 
2-34 

2-65 
2-55 
4-33 
2-69 
3-54 
6-94 
5-14 


3-55 

6-85 
6-44 
7-43 
13-56 
5-22 
5-15 
6-44 
9-15 


7-10 
9-19 
9-09 
9-98 
17-89 
7-91 
8-69 
13-38 
14-29 


14-80 
8-58 
8-97 
6-85 
16-08 
10-65 
1-04 
10-26 
10-16 



There can be no doubt, then, that there is still an excessive prevalence of 
tubercular disease in the army ; and the astonishing disproportionate number 
of cases in the Foot Guards is still as remarkable as it was twenty years ago. 
It may be safely concluded that the larger part of the men invalided will 
shortly die, and their deaths will swell the mortality from tuberculosis of the 



Taken from the tables, Appendix No. I. in Balfour's Reports 

Parliamentary Return of Annual Average Mortality during t 

Feb. 1864 ; and Dr Parr's Report to the Sanitary Commission, p. 507. 



512 



HOME SERVICE. 



civil population. These tables show, in fact, that there must be a large 
amount of phthisis generated in the army ; and in the Foot Guards it would 
seem to be nearly four times as much as among the civil male population of 
25 to 45 years of age. 

In the French, the deaths from phthisis are rather less than in the British 
army. 

The deaths from continued fever (typhoid almost entirely) to 1000 of 
strength declined extremely from the early to the later period. A table 
copied from Dr Balfour shows this very clearly : 

Admissions and Deaths from Continued Fever per 1000 of Strength. 



CORPS. 


1837-46. 


1859. 


I860. 


1861. 


Adm. 


Died. 


Adm. 


Died. 


Adm. 


Died. 


Adm. 


Died. 


Household Cavalry, . 
Dragoon Guards and ) 
Dragoons, . . . J 
Eoyal Artillery, . . 
Military Train, . . 
Foot Guards, . . . 
Infantry Eegiments, . 
Cavalry Depots, . . 
Royal Artillery Depots, 
Depot Battalions, . 










18-81 
20-09 

14-93 
32-59 
27-93 
22-33 
32-85 


11 

26 
1-21 
52 

56 
8 


5-74 

27-08 

12-38 
20-36 
29-77 
19-24 
36-33 
18-7 
25-4 


53 

5 
55 
52 

6 

3 

64 


51-9 
51 


1-36 
65 


27-8 
26 


37 
35 


777 
69-9 


2-44 
2-45 


32-2 
29 


84 
66 


















24-92 


17 











In 1862 and 1863 the numbers are not very different from those of the 
preceding 3 years. 

The decline of continued fever is therefore very great. 

There can be no doubt that, both as regards phthisis and fever, a reduction 
can still be made ; and future returns will see considerable progress, though 
we can hardly expect again to witness so great a reduction. There is every 
encouragement from the past to carry on actively all measures which can do 
away with the causes still existing. (See chapter on PREVENTION OF DISEASE.) 

So also it may be questioned whether pneumonia, bronchitis, and heart 
disease could not be further reduced. The observations already made in the 
chapter on ACCOUTREMENTS render it very likely that this can be done. 

I am strengthened in this opinion from finding that a great difference in 
mortality, and in its causes, exists in the different arms of the service and in 
different corps. This argument will be stronger, however, when the figures 
are derived from a larger number of years. So also in the French army, in 
which the dress and accoutrements are both better arranged than our own, 
the amount of heart disease is less. Taking Dr Balfour's figures,* it appears 
that the deaths per 1000, from diseases of the organs of circulation, are in the 
French army in France, only '255 per 1000 of strength; in our own army 
895, or 3^ times as much. 

To show the effect of age and of the arms of the service on the total mor- 
tality, I subjoin a table compiled from Dr Balfour's reports. 



* Army Medical Report, vol. v. p. 165. 



INVALIDING. 



513 



Annual Ratio of Deaths per 1000 Living at the following Ages (Balfour). 



CORPS. 


Under 20. 


20-24. 


25-29. 


CO 

*l 

g 


rH 


'^ 


g 

i 

OO 

) 1 


d 

i 


] 


Household Cavalry, . . . 
Dragoon Guards and Dragoons, 
Military Train, 
Foot Guards 


7-5 

8-1 

11-1 
13-1 


2-47 
4-398 
6-33 
3-146 
5-036 
0-7 

7-41 
5-83 


11-7 
11-8 

21-6 

17-8 


6-34 

4-498 
5-282 
8-062 
6-658 
9-684 
4-576 

8-42 
7-30 


10-3 
14-3 

21-1 
19-8 


6-806 
7-288 
4-292 
9-252 
8-598 
11-646 
6-938 

9-21 
7-93 


Infantry Eegiments, . . . 
Depot Battalions, .... 
Royal Artillery . ... 


3 d f England and Wales gene- \ 
l|l raUy, / 


^ IM Healthy districts in Eng- ) 
3 ^ [ land and Wales, . . / 


CORPS. 


30-34. 


35-39. 


40 and upwards. 


1837-46. 


1 


1837-46. 


1 


1837-46. 


pH 


Household Cavalry, . . . 
Dragoon Guards and Dragoons, 
Military Train, 


13-3 
14-6 

19-5 
19-8 


6-95 
11-624 
6-852 
12-712 
13-956 
18-148 
7-498 

10-23 
8-38 


8-4 
15-3 

22-4 
21 


9-508 
13-58 
30-622 
14-306 
15-776 
26-41 
13-158 

11-63 
9 


13-4 
18-3 

26-2 
23-4 


20-442 
25-232 
41-332 
16-314 
17-39 
31-048 
0-968 

13-55 

9-86 


Foot Guards 


Infantry Eegiments, . . . 
Depot Battalions, .... 
Royal Artillery 


,2 g ("England and Wales gene- ) 
g| 1 rally, j 
^ "3 1 Healthy districts in Eng- ) 
3 , [ land and Wales, . j 



The effect of length of service on mortality has not yet been fully worked 
out, but appears to be very great. 

From the French army Reports (1862 and 1863), mortality appears to lessen 
with service after the third year is passed, and is least in the period seven to ten 
years' sendee (SatisqueMed. de T Armee pendant TAnnee 1862, p. 32, ibid. 1863). 



Deaths by Suicide 
per 1000. 





In the French Army. 




Deaths by Disease 




per 1000. 




1862. 1863. 


Less than 1 year 


of service, 11-45 13*26 


From 1 to 3 years, . . 13'38 12-81 


3 5 ,, 


9-30 9-77 


5 jj ' r> 


7-40 6-62 


7 10 


4-99 6-14 


10 ,, 14 


5-72 6-12 


Over 14 years, 


7-11 7-82 



1862. 

16 

32 

42 

86 

98 

1-12 

1-25 



1863. 
39 
28 
35 
54 
68 
61 
65 



2K 



514 



HOME SERVICE. 



The decrease of mortality with length of service, in the French army, is 
(juite remarkable. Had the later years of service been given, no doubt the 
mortality would have shown an increase at that time. The regular increase in 
suicidal deaths, with length of service, is also very striking, particularly in 1862. 

The effect of rank is also very marked. In all armies, the commissioned 
officers are more healthy than any other class. The non-commissioned officers 
are more healthy than the men, even to the extent of 40 or even 45 per cent. 

(b.) By Invaliding. Taking the men under 21 years' service only, the 
number of men discharged for illness has varied in different years and regi- 
ments very greatly. 

Number per 1000 Invalided under 21 years' Service. 



ARMS. 


1839-53. 


1859. 


I860. 


1861. 


1862. 


1863. 


Household Cavalry, . 


15-2 


7-42 


14-7 


8.2 


12-27 


16-44 


Cavalry of Line, 


20-9 


14-6 


22-8 


47 


28-53 


24-70 


Royal Artillery, 






20-2 


21-1 


31-01 


22-19 


Military Train, . 






21-7 


38-5 


26-66 


30-85 


Foot Guards, 


15-9 


19-87 


24-6 


28-2 


38-45 


30-63 


Infantry, . 


20-8 


10.41 


21-3 


35 


25-71 


33-90 


Cavalry Depots, 










59-29 


14-56 


Depot Battalions ) 
(Infantry), . j 


... 




21-6 


72-3 


50-85 


36-40 



The amount of invaliding is influenced by other causes than mere inefficiency 
of the men ; sometimes a reduction is made in the army, and the opportunity 
is taken to remove weakly men who would otherwise have continued to serve. 
This was the case in 1861. As invaliding greatly affects the mortality of the 
army, a source of fallacy is introduced which it is not easy to avoid. In 

1861 the ratio of invaliding per 1000 was, for the whole army, 51*419 ; in 

1862 it was 41-27 ; in 1863 it was 32-58. 

It thus appears that the total loss of men per 1000 per annum by deaths 
and invaliding differs greatly in the different arms, but is about 42 per 1000 
per annum for the whole army. With a mean strength of 70,000 men serving 
at home, this amounts to a yearly decrease of nearly 3000 men. 



SECTION II. 
LOSS OF SERVICE FROM SICKNESS PER 1000 PER ANNUM. 

SUB-SECTION I. 

(a.) Number of Admissions into Hospital. On an average 1000 soldiers 
furnish rather over 1000 admissions into hospital per annum. 



In 1837-46 (Infantry) 1044 

1859 v (total) 1066 

1860 1053 



In 1861 
1862 
1863 



(total) 



1025 
989 
960 



The number varies in the different arms from about 500 in the Household 
Cavalry, which is usually the lowest, to about 1400 in the Cavalry and 
Artillery Depots. In the first case the steady character of the men, many of 
whom are married, and in the second the frequency of contusions during drill, 
accounts for this great range. In the Infantry the average is from 850 to 1020. 



INVALIDING. 



515 



It appears, therefore, that the number of admissions has remained tolerably 
constant for 25 years, although during that time the mortality has so much 
decreased, a fact which proves how inferior a test of health the number of ad- 
missions is. In no part of the world, indeed, have they a constant relation to 
the deaths. 

In the French army everywhere the admissions were as follows in 1862. 
It must be understood that the French system is essentially different from our 
own, as the slight cases of sickness are treated either in the barrack-rooms or 
in the infirmaries, while the severer cases are sent to general hospitals. In 
1862 the mean strength (I'e/ectif moyenne) was 372,166 men; the number 
" present" with the regiments was 316,578. 



Into hospital, 
Into infirmaries, or treated 
in the barrack-room, 

Total, 



Admissions in 1862. 

106,262 



Per 1000 of mean strength. 

285 
1875 



804,212 



2160 



In France alone there were 636,370 total admissions to 304,733 of effective 
strength, or at the rate of 2088 per 1000 of strength. In Italy the admis- 
sions were 3460, and in Algeria 2248 per 1000 of strength. In 1863, on the 
1st January, there were 255,013 men present with their regiments in France 
on that day there were in hospital 26 men per 1000, and in the infirmaries or 
in barracks sick there were 19, or altogether 45 non-effective per 1000 of 
strength. 

The French plan clearly shows how slight three-fourths of the cases in the 
French army are, as no man sick for more than a day is kept in the barrack, 
or for more than a few days in the infirmaries ; all severer cases are sent to 
hospital. 

In the different arms the proportion varied from a total sick of 1153 (Im- 
perial Guard) to 2425 (Cavalry) per 1000 of strength. 



SUB-SECTION II. 

(b.) Daily number of Sick in Hospital per 1000 of Strength. About one- 
twentieth of the army is constantly sick in time of peace, or 5 per cent. 
In 1860, the proportion was 54-72 per 1000, or 5 '4 per cent. 

1861, 54-54 5-4 

1862, 52.45 5-2 

1863, 49-14 49 
The different arms, however, present different numbers. 



ARMS. 


1837-46. 


1859. 


I860. 


1861. 


1862. 


1863. 


Household Cavalry, 




28-70 


28-68 


31-38 


33-21 


33-52 


Cavalry of the Line, 


40 


51-13 


41-67 


43-43 


43-62 


47-22 


Royal Artillery, 






57-51 


57-13 


50-62 


46-87 


Military Train, 




71-82 


62-66 


50-22 


54-25 


51-61 


Foot Guards, . 


43 


51-76 


52 


51-73 


57-12 


58-58 


Infantry Regiments, 


48-50 


50-91 


48-13 


46-12 


45-65 


40-92 


Depot Battalions, ) 
(Infantry), . . j 






57-55 


51-48 


47-63 


45-73 



2x2 



516 



HOME SERVICE. 



In England, the number of members of friendly societies, between 20 and 
30 years of age, who are constantly sick is nearly 16 per 1000. 

The daily sick in foreign armies per 1000 of men actually with their 
regiments is 



French (1846), 
(1862), . 
(1863), . 

Prussian, 

Austrian, 

Belgian (1859), 

Portuguese (1851-53), 



45-5 

47-93 

45 

44 

45 

54-2 

39-4 



The number of daily sick has, of course, a wide range ; sometimes an hos- 
pital is almost closed, at other times there may be more than 100 sick per 
1000 of strength. The composition and the duties of the several arms 
sufficiently indicate some of the reasons for the differences in the above 
table. 



SUB-SECTION III. 

(c.) Number of Days spent in Hospital pw head in each 1000 of Strength. 
The number of days' service of a battalion 1000 strong in a year would be of 
course (1000 x 365 = ) 365,000. If we assume the average number of sick to 
be 54 per 1000, there are lost to the State (54 x 365 = )19,710 days' service 
per annum, or 19^ days per man ; that is to say, each man has a little under 
three weeks' illness in the course of the year. As already said, it is diffi- 
cult to compare the sickness of soldiers and civilians, but the above amount 
seems large when we remember that, in the friendly societies, the average 
sickness per man per annum (under forty years of age) is less than seven 
days. 

The number of days of hospital to each sick man (mean duration of cases) 
is nearly the same, as the number of admissions nearly equals the strength. 

It can be most easily calculated as following : multiply the mean number 
of sick (sick population) by the number of days in the period, and divide by 
the cases treated. The "cases treated" is the mean of the admissions and 
discharges in the period. 

In the different arms the mean duration of cases is as follows : 



Days in Hospital to each Sick Man ( = Duration of Cases). 



ARMS. 


1837-46. 


1859. 


1860. 


1861. 


1862. 


1863. 


Household Cavalry, 


15 


19-46 


20-39 


20-41 


20-43 


19-03 


Dragoon Guards ) 
and Dragoons, j 


15 


19-02 


16-51 


16-35 


16-07 


18-74 


Eoyal Artillery, . 


... 


... 


20-06 


20-63 


19-22 


18-56 


Military Train, 




20-75 


19-84 


19-85 


17-76 


16-53 


Foot Guards, . . 


18 


23-87 


25-07 


23-79 


24-04 


22-35 


Infantry, . . . 


17 


19-28 


19-43 


19-84 


20-03 


18-08 


Depot Battalions, 




... 


19-09 


19-99 


19-24 


17-07 



SICKNESS. 



517 



Austrian army, 17 to 18 days, 

French (1846), 16 days. 

French at home, all cases (1862), 

7-84 days. 
French at home (1863), 8'02 days. 



French in hospitals only (1862 and 

1863), 27 days. 
Prussian, 16 days. 
Belgian, 23*6 days. 
Portuguese, 19 days. 



SUB-SECTION IV. 

(a.) Mortality to Siclcmss. This is, of course, a different point from that 
of the relation of mortality to strength. A few cases of very fatal illness may 
give a large mortality to cases of sickness, but the mortality to strength may 
be very small. 

The mere statement of the ratio of mortality to sickness gives little infor- 
mation ; what is wanted is the mortality of each disease, and at every age. 
Otherwise the introduction of a number of trifling cases of disease may com- 
pletely mask the real facts. 

When, however, the general ratio is to be determined, it must be calculated 
in one of three ways : 

1. Mortality to admissions in the time. This is, however, an uncertain 
plan ; a number of cases admitted towards the close of a period, and the 
greater part of whose treatment and mortality falls into the next period, may 
cause an error. 

2. Mortality to cases treated ( = mean of admissions and discharges).* 
This is the best method of calculation. 

3. Mortality to sick population, i.e., the number of deaths furnished per 
annum by a daily constant number of sick. This, however, must be taken in 
connection with the absolute number of sick in the time, and with the dura- 
tion of the cases, or, in other words, with the kind of cases. 

The degree of mortality to the several causes of sickness is given very fully 
in the Army Statistical Reports, and in a few years some of the most valuable 
evidence that has ever been given in this direction will be available, t 

* It has not infrequently happened that the mortality on sickness has been calculated in this 
way ; the number of sick remaining in hospital at the commencement of the period, say a year, 
are added to the admissions in the year, and the mortality is calculated on this number. At 
the end of the year a certain number of sick remaining in hospital are carried on to the next 
year, and added to the admissions of that second year for the calculation of the mortality of 
that year. In this way they are counted twice. This has been done in calculations of weekly 
mortality, and in this way the same sick man has been made to do duty as" a fresh case many 
times over. This is to be avoided by either calculating on the admissions, or by considering 
half the " remaining" at the beginning to belong to the previous period, and half the " remain- 
ing " at the end of the period to belong to the following period ; or, what is the same thing, 
taking half the admissions and half the discharges in the period as representing the " cases 
treated " in that time. 

f To analyse these tables (appended to the Statistical Reports) would take up too much 
space, and probably it is undesirable to do so for a few more years, but already the information 
is becoming very interesting. Take, for instance, pneumonia. 



Years. 


Total Cases. 


Total Deaths. 


Percentage of Deaths. 


1859, 
1860, 
1861, 
1862, 
1863, 


320 
442 
859 
334 

281 


38 
72 
45 
34 
30 


11-87 
16-28 
12-53 
10-18 
10-67 



There is a great diversity in the mortality in the several corps. It thus appears that the mor- 
tality of pneumonia on the admissions has been, as a mean of five years, 12-306 per cent. In a 
very few years, supposing the diagnoses are well made, the mortality of pneumonia in. males, 
if the soldiers are under good medical treatment, will be determined with certainty. 



518 



HOME SERVICE. 



Calculated on the admissions, the mortality to total sickness is nearly the 
same as the mortality to strength, or about 9 '5 per 1000 per annum. 

SUB-SECTION V. CAUSES OF SICKNESS. 

The causes leading men to go into hospital are, of course, very different from 
those which produce mortality. For example, admissions from phthisis will 
be few, mortality great ; admissions from skin diseases numerous, mortality 
trifling. 

Taking the most common causes of admission in the order of frequency, we 
find 

1. Enthetic or Venereal Diseases. Under the term enthetic, all diseases, im- 
mediate or remote, resulting from sexual intercourse, are included. Secondary 
as well as primary syphilis ; stricture and orchitis, as well as gonorrhea, &c. ; 
also a few cases not strictly venereal. 



YEARS. 


Admissions for 
1000 of 
Strength. 


Average number 
constantly 
Sick per 1000. 


Duration of illness 
in Days. 


1859, . . 


422 


26-8 


23-22 


I860, . . 


368-96 


23-69 


23-5 


1861, . . 


354 


23-45 


24-19 


1862, . . 


330 


22-24 


24-61 


1863, . . 


306-8 


20-28 


24-10 



In some corps the admissions have been as low as 120 (Household Cavalry), 
in others as high as 511 per 1000 of strength (Artillery Depots). 

In 1861 these diseases caused a loss to the State of a period equal to 8 -6 9 
days for every man serving at home; the number of troops at home in 1861 
being nearly 89,000, there was a daily inefficiency from venereal of 2077 
men ; in 1862, the troops being 78,173 in number, there was a daily ineffi- 
ciency with venereal of 1739 men ; in 1862, of 8'12 days, or equal to the loss 
of two regiments constantly ; in 1863, of 7*4 days. How many of these cases 
are of infecting syphilis ; how many are non-infecting sores, is doubtful ; but 
Dr Balfour has calculated that about 60 per cent, is syphilitic (recent or 
remote) and 40 gonorrhoeal. It varies, however, from year to year. 

It would be of great moment to determine the exact number of true cases 
of infecting syphilis presenting themselves for the first time. In 1862, there 
were 7771 cases returned as " syphilis primaria" out of a total of 25,787 ad- 
missions from "enthetic diseases," or at the rate of 30-13 per cent, of the 
admissions from " enthetic" diseases. If we can trust to the diagnosis, the 
admissions from primary syphilis would be 9 9 -4 per 1000 of strength in 1862. 
In 1863 there were 7131 cases of "primary syphilis," or 93*8 per 1000 of 
strength. 

We have no certain facts with which we can compare the syphilitic disease 
of the civil population with the enthetic diseases of the army. The amount 
among the civil population at large is really a matter of conjecture. But 
whether it is greater or less than that of the army does not affect the result 
drawn from the above figures, viz., that there is an appalling loss of service 
every year from the immediate or remote effects of venereal disease. 

In foreign armies the evidence is very imperfect. M. Jeannel, in his 
remarkable book on the prostitution of Bordeaux,* has given a table of 

* Sur la Prostitution Publique, par le Dr J. Jeannel, Pharmacien principal de premiere 
classe a 1'HOpital Militaire, &c. Paris, 1862, pp. 196 and 214. 



SICKNESS. 



519 



cases of venereal (veneriens) in the garrison hospitals of thirty French and 
Belgian garrisons, from which the following is an abstract. The rule in the 
French service is to send all had cases from the regimental hospitals to the 
garrison (the French regimental hospitals are intended only for the treatment 
of the slight cases of sickness), hut yet some slight cases of venereal disease 
are treated in the infirmaries. This lessens the value of his table, from which 
the table below is an extract.* 

Number Admitted per 1000 of Strength in some of the Principal Qarrisons, 
and Average Number of Days of Sickness (JeanneT). 





1858. 


1859. 


1860. 


GARRISONS. 


Admissions 


Days in 


A-dmissions 


Days in 


Admissions 


Days in 




per 1000 


hospital for 


per 1000 


hospital for 


per 1000 


hospital for 




of strength. 


each case. 


of strength. 


each case. 


of strength. 


each case. 


Paris, 


34-2 


29-1 


51-1 


18-5 


33 


27 


Briangon, 


28-8 


34-1 


49-3 


30-5 


19-9 


56-7 


Montpellier, 


52-9 


50-5 


11-3 


46 


71 


52-6 


Toulouse, 


904 


47-3 


83-4 


55-6 


81-6 


37-1 


Marseilles, . 


113-3 


40-2 


... 




127-8 


32-6 


Calais, 


132-5 


25 


60-9 


29-3 


73-8 


30-2 


Lyons, . . 


136 


49-9 


165-5 


33-6 


163 


42-2 


Nancy, . 






159-6 


33-9 


598-1 


18-1 


Bordeaux, 


255-4 


29-4 


158-2 


27-5 


103-5 


29-1 



In Brussels the average admissions per 1000 of strength were 89'1 (years 
1858-59-60). 

In Lille during the same year it was 104-2. 

In Russia, the admissions from syphilis are about 55 per 1000 (in Europe). 

In the Hanoverian army, 37 '1 per 1000 from syphilis, 28 per 1000 from 
gonorrhoea, 65 -1 per 1000 from both. 

From the French Army Report of 1862, already quoted, the total amount 
of " enthetic disease " is not very readily determined. In 1862, out of a mean 
strength of 304,733 men serving in France, there were 10,985 admissions into 
hospital from " syphilis primitive," or at the rate of 36 per 1000 of strength. 
Also 2636 cases of " syphilis constitutionnelle " were admitted. But then 
we must add to this number all the slighter cases treated in the infirmaries. 
This, however, is nowhere stated, and the total amount of enthetic disease can 
only be obtained by inference. Dr Balfour has calculated that the average 
non-effective from syphilis in hospital, infirmaries, and quarters was, in 
1862, 11-11 per 1000 serving; while in the English army the proportion in 
the same year was 10-82 per 1000 serving,t or giving a little advantage to 
the English army. But the French reporters state (pp. 43 and 52), that on 

* The rule in the French army about the plan of treatment of venereal disease appears to be 
this. The Ordonnance of 1839 ordered that slight syphilis requiring local treatment only should 
be treated in the infirmaries, but that severer cases should be sent to hospital. An order of 
1860 (Didiot, Code Sanitaire, 1863, p. 204) directs that in any place where there is no (general) 
hospital, every form of syphilis is to be treated in the infirmaries, under the express condition 
that the place allows the police surveillance to which these patients are subjected to be carried 
out. If this cannot be done, the Ordonnance of 1839 is adhered to, viz., that cases requiring 
local treatment only are kept in the infirmaries. 

t Army Medical Report for 1862, p. 153. (Syphilis, and not venereal, is referred to.) 



520 HOME SERVICE. 

every 5 -27 days of sickness from all causes there is one day from venereal 
(v&neriens) treated in hospitals, infirmaries, and barracks, which would give, 
if the loss of service were distributed over the whole army, a loss of 3-9 days 
yearly for each man. In England the loss is between eight and nine days 
for each man, and, therefore, it is double the French amount. But we 
certainly require more perfect French statistics before any result can be fairly 
reached. 

The comparison between our own and other armies will not affect the 
facts as regards us viz., that there is an enormous loss to the State from 
venereal diseases, and it is urgently necessary that some steps should be taken 
to lessen the evil (see Prevention of Disease). It should be understood, also, 
that the action of syphilis is long continued. Many soldiers die at Netley * 
from various diseases, whose real aifection has been syphilis, so that the influ- 
ence of this cause is very imperfectly indicated by the number of admissions 
and service lost under the head of enthetic diseases. 

2. The important diseases included under the miasmatic class give about 
one-fifth to one-fourth of the total admissions ; or about 220 per 1000. 

1859, 194 

1860, . . .... 246 

1861, 221 

1862, 234-3 

1863, 188-6 

Mean, . . 218*4 

(a.) Eruptive fevers are not very common, about 3 per 1000. Small-pox 
is checked by vaccination ; measles and scarlatina are not frequent. 

(b.) Paroxysmal fevers (many of which have been contracted out of 
England), give about 11 per 1000. 

(c.) The continued fevers are more common, but their frequency is lessen- 
ing. There is no doubt that typhoid is the chief, perhaps almost the only 
fever besides febricula which is now seen. Spotted typhus is at present very 
uncommon. The continued fevers cause about 30 admissions per 1000 of 
strength. 

(<V) Rheumatism gives between 50 and 60, dysentery and diarrhoea 25 
to 30, sore throat and influenza 53, and ophthalmia 30 cases per 1000 of 
strength. 

3. Integumentary diseases usually give the next greatest number of admis- 
sions viz., from 100 to 130. This does not include scabies, but is made up 
of a great number of cases returned as phlegmon and ulcers (which appear to 
be rather more common among the cavalry and artillery), and a much smaller 
number of cases of eczema, herpes, psoriasis, and impstigo. 

4. Diseases of the respiratory organs (excluding tuberculosis) give the next 
largest number viz., from 75 to 110 per 1000, the mean being nearly 100 ; 
acute bronchitis gives the largest number (more than two-thirds) ; chronic 
bronchitis, one-sixth ; and pneumonia and pleurisy, about one- twelfth each. 

5. Accidents follow with from 70 to 80 admissions 'per 1000 of strength. 
Contusions are much more common in some regiments than in others, espe- 
cially in the artillery and cavalry depots, where recruits are in training. 

6. Diseases of the digestive system cause from 35 to 50 admissions ; dys- 

* My colleagues, Professors Maclean and Aitken, are both veiy much impressed with the 
frequent occurrence of marks of continued and dominant syphilitic action in the bodies of men 
who die from what are considered other diseases. 



SICKNESS. 



521 



pepsia is the chief heading ; then chronic hepatitis (although it is very ques- 
tionable if this term is not a conventionalism), and hoemorrhoids. 

7. Parasitic diseases come next, with an average of about 30 to 40 cases per 
1000 ; which are made up of scabies, and a smaller amount of " porrigo." 

8. Diseases of the nervous system give about 15 to 20 per 1000. Epilepsy 
gives the largest number; then otitis; then cephaloea. 

9. Tubercular diseases cause about 18 admissions per 1000. 

10. Diseases of the reproductive (venereal excluded), locomotive, and 
urinary, give 6, 3J, and 3 admissions per 1000 of strength. 

11. The remaining admissions are made up of smaller classes; corporal 
punishment sends 2 men into hospital yearly out of every 1000 men; these 
points are summed up in the following table, copied from Dr Balfour's re- 
ports : 

Ratio per 1000 of mean Strength. 





I860. 


1861. 


1862. 


1863. 


CLASSES. 












Admitted. 


Died. 


Admitted. 


Died. 


Admitted. 


Died. 


Admitted. 


Died. 


CLASS I. 


















Miasmatic, . 


246-2 


1-23 


221-2 


98 


195-3 


96 


188-6 


89 


Enthetic, 


369-0 


08 


353-8 


16 


329-9 


11 


306-8 


09 


Dietetic, 


5-5 


10 


7-1 


03 


7-3 


05 


8-3 


05 


Parasitic, . . . 


30-2 


02 


35-1 


... 


44-3 




47-2 


... 


CLASS II. 


















Diathetic, 


1-8 


12 


2-4 


16 


3-1 


14 


3-4 


14 


Tubercular, . 


17-8 


3-47 


18-7 


3-34 


19-5 


3-67 


16-9 


2-99 


CLASS III. 


















Nervous System, . 


18-8 


62 


19-9 


79 


20-2 


61 


18-4 


73 


Circulatory 


7-5 


72 


10.3 


79 


8-9 


68 


9.2 


89 


Respiratory ,, 


106-5 


1-77 


98-2 


1-44 


86-4 


1-13 


75-9 


1-17 


Digestive 


36 


51 


38-9 


45 


39-0 


47 


37-0 


48 


Urinary, ^ 


2-7 


14 


3 


09 


2-8 


08 


2-7 


17 


Reproductive System, 


4-9 




7-5 




10-3 


... 


12-8 


... 


Locomotive 


3 


03 


3-6 




4-1 


01 


4-4 


03 


Integumentary 


118 


14 


119-9 


07 


128-2 


03 


137-6 


06 


CLASS IV. 


















Diseases of Nutrition, 


1 


03 


2-1 


0-4 


3-2 


0-3 


2 


03 


CLASS Y. 


















Accidents, . 


78-5 


60 


80 


68 


82-5 


46 


85-8 


74 


Homicides, . . ) 


9 


f-02) 


.1 


/02 




01 


... 


01 


Suicides, . . J 


A 


t-34/ 


i 


V16 


1 


27 


3 


31 


Execution, 








03 




01 




01 


Corporal Punishment, 


1-9 




2-1 




2-1 




2-4 




Not specified, 


3-1 


01 


1-6 


... 


2 




3 


01 


Total,* . 


1052-7 


9-95 


1025-5 


9-24 


989-2 


8-72 


96-0 


8-86 



522 HOME SERVICE. 

Can the causes of any of these admissions into hospital be lessened or re- 
moved 1 On this point there is no room for doubt that the enthetic admis- 
sions could be greatly lessened; so also could the admissions from fever, 
which have in fact been already reduced from 60 to 30 per 1000 of strength. 
The large class of integumentary diseases Avould probably admit of reduction. 
What is the exact nature of the phlegmon and ulcers which form so large a 
proportion of the admissions ? Trifling as the cases are, they form a large 
aggregate, and a careful study of their mode of production might show how 
they might be diminished. Probably, however, these are mere conventional 
terms, under which a number of trifling cases are conveniently recorded, but 
a complete analysis of the returns of one year under phlegmon would be 
desirable. So also of all the other classes, it may be concluded that an active 
medical officer might succeed in reducing the cases of rheumatism, bronchitis, 
and dyspepsia."" 

Sickness in Military Prisons. The admissions into hospital in the military 
prisons do not appear to be great ; they have varied per 1000 of admissions 
of prisoners from 316 (in 1851) to 136 in 1863.t Calculated in the mean 
strength, the result is as follows : In 1863, the daily average number of 
prisoners were 1064 ; the admissions for sickness, 772 ; the mean daily sick, 
21; the mortality, 0. These numbers give 725*5 admissions, and 19-74 mean 
daily sick per 1000 of strength. Prisoners are healthier than their comrades 
at duty in the same garrisons where the prisoners are under sentence. 



SECTION" III. 

Such, then, being the amount of mortality and sickness at home, it may be 
concluded, that the soldier at present is not yet in so good a condition of 
physical health as he might be ; and we can confidently look to future years 
as likely to show a continuance in the improvement now going on. 

Health is so inextricably blended with all actions of the body and mind, 
that the medical officers must consider not only all physical but all mental 
and moral causes acting on the men under their charge. 

The amount of work, the time it occupies, its relation to the quantity of 
food, the degree of exhaustion it produces, the number of nights in bed, and 
other points of the like kind; the mental influences interesting the soldier, 
or depressing him from ennui; the moral effect of cheerfulness, hope, dis- 
content, and despondency upon his health, as well as the supply of water, 
air, food, clothing, &c., must be taken into account. And just as the body 
is ministered to in all these ways, so should there be ministration of the 
mind. It is but a partial view which looks only to the body in seeking to 
improve health ; the moral conditions are not less important ; without con- 
tentment, satisfaction, cheerfulness, and hope, there is no health. 

Hygiene, indeed, should aim at something more than bodily health, and 
should indicate how the mental and moral qualities, essential to the particular 
calling of the man, can be best developed. 

How is a soldier to be made not merely healthy and vigorous, but courageous, 
hopeful, and enduring ? How, in fact, can we best cultivate those martial 

* It is right, however, to say that no medical officer ought to sacrifice his men in the slightest 
degree for the purpose of appearing to have a small sick list and an empty hospital. There is 
a temptation in that direction which we have to guard against, and to remember that the only 
question to be asked is, What is best for the men ? not, What will make the best appearance? 

t Report on Prisons for 1863, p. 24. 



SOLDIERLY QUALITIES. 523 

qualities which fit him to endure the hardships, vicissitudes, and' dangers of 
a career so chequered and perilous 1 ? 

Without attempting to analyse the complex quality called courage, a qua- 
lity arising from a sense of duty, or love of emulation, or fear of shame, or 
from physical hardihood, springing from familiarity with, and contempt of 
danger, it may well be believed that it is capable of being lessened or in- 
creased. In modern armies, there is not only little attempt to cultivate 
courage and self-reliance, but the custom of acting together in masses, and of 
dependence on others, actually lessens this. It is, then, a problem of great 
interest to the soldier, to know what mental, moral, and physical means must 
be used to strengthen the martial qualities of boldness and fortitude. 

The English army has never been accused of want of courage, and the idea 
of pusillanimity would seem impossible to the race. But drunkenness and 
debauchery strike at the very roots of courage; and no army ever showed the 
highest amount of martial qualities when it permitted these two vices to 
prevail.* In the army of Marlborough, the best governed army we ever had, 
and the most uniformly successful, we are told that the " sot and the drunkard 
were the object of scorn." To make an army perfectly brave, it must be 
made temperate and chaste. 

Good health and physical strength, by increasing self-confidence, increase 
courage ; and self-reliance is the consequence of feeling that, under all circum- 
stances, we can face with strength the dangers and difficulties that present 
themselves. 

Few wiser words were ever written than those by William Fergusson,t at 
the close of his long and eventful service. 

" Of the soldier's life within these barracks," writes Fergusson, " there is 
much to be said, and much to be amended. To take his guards, to cleanse 
his arms, and attend parade, seems to comprehend the sum total of his 
existence ; amusement, instruction beyond the drill, military labour, and ex- 
tension of exercises, would appear, until very recently, to be unthought of ; as 
it is impossible that the above duties can fully occupy his time, the irksome- 
ness of idleness, that most intolerable of all miseries, must soon overtake him, 
and he will be driven to the canteen or the gin-shop for relief. 

" Labour in every shape seems to have been strictly interdicted to the soldier, 
as water for his drink. All, or nearly all, must have been bred to some trade 
or other before they became soldiers; but they are to work at them no longer. 
Labour (the labour of field-works and fortifications) strengthens the limbs and 
hardens the constitution, but that is never thought of in our military life at 
home ; so thought not the ancient Romans, whose military highways still 
exist, and who never permitted their soldiers to grow enervated in idleness 
during peace. Better, surely, would it be that every one should work at his 
own craft, or be employed on the public works, in regulated wholesome 
labour, than thus to spend his time in sloth and drunkenness, 

" But his exercises,, without even going beyond the barrack premises, may 
be made manifold running, wrestling, gymnastic games of every kind, 
swimming, leaping, pitching the bar, the sword exercise, that of the artillery, 
all that hardens the muscles and strengthens the limbs, should be encouraged ; 

* There are many sober and excellent men in the army. But as a rule, the English soldier 
cannot be depended upon under any circumstance, if he can get drink. Well does Sir Ranald 
Martin say, "Before that terrible vice can be overcome, something far more powerful than 
medical reasoning on facts, or the warnings of experience founded on them, must be brought 
into active operation. Discipline must still further alter its direction ; in place of being active 
only to punish wrong, it ought and must be exerted further and further in the encouragement 
to good conduct." Ranald Martin, " Tropical Climates," p. 263. 

T Notes and Recollections of a Professional Life, 1846, p. 49. 



524 HOME SERVICE. 

and when the weather forbids out-door pastimes, the healthier exercise of 
single-stick, in giving balance and power to the body, quickness to the eye, 
and vigour to the arm, may properly be taken as a substitute for the drill, 
which, after the soldier has been perfected in his exercise, is always felt to be 
a punishment. So is the unmeaning evening parade and perpetual roll-calling. 

" Surely, if the soldier present himself once every morning, correctly 
equipped and in order, the most teasing martinet ought to be satisfied, and 
then no more should be required than to see that the men are all in their 
quarters on the beating of the tattoo. Surely the use of the sword has been 
too much frowned down, as if it had been a forbidden thing. In the night 
attack the musket is worse than useless, its fire leading to every kind of con- 
fusion ; and at the breach it is little better, for it can only be presented 
against stone walls and ramparts that conceal the defenders; but it [the sword] 
would cover the swordsman advancing to the breach, and a couple of chests 
of ships' cutlasses furnished to every regiment as regimental baggage a single 
horse-load provided the men had been taught to use them, would generally 
supply all that could be wanted for the exigency of the service. 

" Let any one reflect on the fearful expenditure of life at the breaches at 
Badajos and St Sebastian, and say if some means should not, if possible, be 
devised to render it less costly hereafter. One is almost tempted to regret 
the times ' when,' according to the old song, ' our leaders marched with fusees, 
and we with hand-grenades ;' and could the good grenadier have carried a 
sword by his side, to use after he had tossed the ball, he would, I believe, 
have done much more execution than with a musket and bayonet ; and why 
should the artillery be to him a closed book, as if in the course of his service 
he was never destined to handle or to suffer from it ? A couple of guns, even 
if wooden ones, in every barrack-yard, with an old invalid bombardier to 
teach the use of the rammer, and the sponge, and the match, would fill up 
many a vacant dreary 'hour, and open his mind to a most useful professional 
lesson. 

" The lesson, moreover, would be as useful to the infantry officer as to the 
private. He would then, should he ever prove the captor of a prize gun, at 
least know what it was, and be able to turn upon the enemy the engine that 
had just been used for the purpose of destroying himself. Every sailor, even 
on board a merchant ship, where there are no idlers, must become more or less 
an artilleryman, and why should not the too often idle soldier 1 

" Foot-racing too, the art of running, so little practised, and so supremely 
useful, should be held amongst the qualities that constitute military excel- 
lence. It was so held at the Isthmian games of ancient Greece, and deserves 
a better place than has hitherto been assigned to it in the military pastimes 
of modern Britain. In our school-books we are told that the youth of ancient 
Persia were taught to launch the javelin, to ride the war-horse, and to speak 
the truth. Let the young British warrior be taught to use his limbs, to fire 
ball-cartridge, to cook his provisions, and to drink water. The tuition may 
be less classical, but it will stand him in far better stead during every service, 
whether at home or abroad. 

" Eegular bodily pleasurable exercise has been said to be worth a host of 
physicians for preserving military health ; and occupation without distress or 
fatigue is happiness. The philosopher can make no more of it ; and every 
idle hour is an hour of irksomeness, and every idle man is, and must be, a 
vicious man, and to a certain extent an unhealthy one ; for the mind preys 
upon the body, and either deranges its functions in a direct manner, or drives 
the possessor to seek resources incompatible with health. 

" Barracks, from time to time, should be evacuated for purification. The 



SOLDIERLY QUALITIES. 525 

evils and dangers of accumulation will otherwise beset them, inducing disease ; 
and to obviate this, it would be well, whenever practicable, to march out their 
inhabitants, in the summer season, to the nearest heath or common always, 
however, without tents and there make them hut themselves. No military 
lesson could be more useful than this. Every man so hutted would be ad- 
vanced in soldiering to the full instruction of the campaign. The change 
breaking the monotony of barrack life the novelty would animate ; he would 
be taught how to live in a camp, how to cook and to forage, to use the mat- 
tock, the shovel, and the axe. 

" Tents, when the soldier lies upon the cold ground, with a crowd of com- 
rades enclosed within a superficially heated atmosphere, loaded with animal 
exhalations, can only be considered hot-beds for the generation of dysentery. 
On their return to barracks they will find everything healthy and refreshed, 
and they will know that they have been made better soldiers. 

" Some have strenuously recommended barrack libraries ; and surely, when 
we think of the dismal monotony that hangs over the soldier in barrack life, 
no one with good feelings could object to them. Still, I must confess that I 
never knew or heard of a reading army. The military exercises and pastimes 
would seem better adapted to the soldier's character ; and I acknowledge I 
would rather see him a cook than a student, for on that art his very existence 
may depend; but if he feel disposed to read, let him have every advantage 
and opportunity that the rules of the service can admit. 

" Music would seem far better adapted than even books to fire the soldier's 
mind, for, when played in national airs, it awakens a chord which has often 
electrified armies ; and amongst all nations, at some period or other of their 
history, it has been the accompanient and incentive to war. The highly 
civilised English soldier now fights, and can fight, without it ; but if taught to 
feel its power, would he not fight better with HI To the Irish and the 
Scotch soldier it still speaks the language of the heart ; and the Highlander, 
when he hears the gathering of his clan blo'wn from the mountain war-pipe, 
becomes elevated and transported beyond himself; he will then encounter 
anything in human shape, unappalled by all the forms of death that the 
engines of war can inflict."* 

In many of the foreign stations of the British army, excellent opportunities 
exist for both occupying the men and developing their spirit. All history 
teaches us that a hunting race is a martial one. The remarkable fighting 
qualities of the English, as drawn in Froissart's Chronicles, were owing to the 
fact that at that time they were " a nation of hunters," and trained from 
infancy to face dangers alone. In India there are many places where men 
could not only be allowed to hunt, but where such permission would be the 
greatest boon to the inhabitants. Yet this is never thought of, because it is 
imagined it would relax discipline, or would expose the soldier to the sun. 
But discipline and health are both infinitely more imperilled by the present 
system, to say nothing of the soldierly qualities which should be cultivated 
with so much care. 

Moral and mental means for increasing health, courage, and self-reliance, 
must also be adopted. 

The English army offers but few incentives to good conduct, scanty encou- 
ragement for the cultivation of martial qualities. Men must have rewards, 

* Such, then, was the advice of an old Peninsular surgeon many years ago ; how time is 
bringing the fulfilment of every recommendation ; how much lost time would have been saved 
had William Fergusson's counsel found a Sidney Herbert to recognise its value and to carry it 
into effect ! 



526 HOME SERVICE. 

and feel that earnest endeavour on their part to become in all respects better 
soldiers is neither overlooked nor unrewarded. 

The cultivation of the martial qualities of the soldier is in reality a part of 
hygiene considered in its largest sense, but this part of hygiene must be 
studied and carried into effect by the combatant officers. Let us trust it may 
not be long before they seriously study and endeavour, by precept and ex- 
ample, to promote the formation of those habits of boldness and endurance, 
and that fertility in resources, which alone can render an army the formidable 
instrument it is capable of becoming. 



CHAPTER III. 
FOREIGN SERVICE. 

THE foreign service of the British army is performed in every part of the 
world, and in almost every latitude, and probably more than two-thirds of 
each line-soldier's service is passed abroad. The mere enumeration of the 
stations is a long task ; the description of them would demand a large volume. 
In this short chapter, to give a few general statements as to climate and 
geology, and the pas$, and present medical history of the stations, only can be 
attempted ; such an outline as may give medical officers a sort of brief sum- 
mary of what seems most important to be known. 

Detailed and excellent accounts of most of the foreign stations exist, either 
in the independent works of army surgeons, such as those of Marshall, 
Hennen, Davy, and many others, or in reports drawn up for Government, 
and published by them. In the early Statistical Eeports of the Medical 
Department of the army, short topographical notices of the stations were in- 
serted ; they are models of what such reports should be, and must have been 
drawn up by a master in the art of condensation. In the Annual Eeports 
now published, many excellent topographical descriptions will be found ; and 
some of the Indian Governments have published complete descriptions of 
all their stations. In the "Bombay Transactions," the "Madras Medical 
Journal," and the " Bengal Indian Annals," are very full accounts of almost 
every station that has been, or is, occupied by European troops in India. 
Finally, in the " Indian Sanitary Keport," is much important information on 
the meteorology and topography of the present Indian stations. Young 
medical officers first entering on foreign service are strongly advised to study 
these accounts of the stations in the command where they are serving ; it will 
not only give them interest in their service, but will aid them in their search 
how best to meet the climatic or sanitary conditions which affect the health 
of the men under their charge. 

SECTION I. 

MEDITERRANEAN STATIONS.* 
GIBRALTAR. 

Usual peace garrison = 6000 men. Period of service, three years. Civil 
population = 17,750 (in 1857). Height of rock, 1439 feet at highest point. 
Nature of rock, grey limestone, with many cavities filled with reddish clay ; 
under town, an absorbent red earth forms the subsoil. 

* A very important Report on the Mediterranean Stations has been published by the Barrack 
Improvement Commissioners (Dr Sutherland and Captain Galton). Blue-Book, 1863. 



528 FOREIGN SERVICE. 

Climate. Mean temperature of year = 64'1 ;* hottest month, August (in- 
variably in eight years) 76*6; coldest month, either January or February, in 
equal proportions, 5377; amplitude of the yearly fluctuation, 22 '83 ( = dif- 
ference between hottest and coldest months). 

Mean monthly maximum and minimum in shade t Hottest month, July 
or August mean maximum = 89; coldest month, December, January, or 
February mean minimum, 42. Range of highest and lowest monthly 
means of maximum and minimum, 47. Extreme yearly range (difference 
between highest and lowest temperature recorded in the time) about 50 to 
58. The minimum thermometer on grass sometimes falls to 4 or 6 below 
freezing. 

Rain-fall. Mean 32-8 inches (mean of seventy years, 1790-1860). Great- 
est amount in any one year, 75 -8 (1855). Least amount in any one year, 15'1 
(1800). The importance of this great variation, as regards sieges, is evident ; 
Gibraltar might be embarrassed for water, if the rain-fall were only 15 inches 
in a year of siege. 

Number of rainy days =68. The rain is therefore infrequent, but heavy. 
The rain falls in nine months, September to May; greatest amount in 
January and November ; most rainy days in April. Summer, rainless. 

g 
Humidity. 

Grains of Relative 

Dew-point. Vapour in a Humidity 

cubic foot. Sat. = 100. 

Mean dew-point of year, . 55-9 5-75 72-3 

Mean highest dew-point in ) ^o.y 7.5 JQ.Q 

August, . . | 

Lowest dew-point in January ) 43 -5 3-95 69 '1 

or February, . . J 

Gibraltar is thus seen to be a rather dry climate ; at any rate, the air is on 
an average only three parts saturated with moisture, and therefore evaporation 
from the skin and lungs will be tolerably rapid, provided the air moves 
freely. It is certainly not a moist insular climate, as might have been antici- 
pated. At the times of rain, however, and during the fogs and moist sirocco, 
the air is nearly saturated. 

Winds. Chiefly to the N.W. or S.W. or W., in January, April, May, June, 
and October. Easterly in July, August, and September. But sometimes the 
easterly winds are more prevalent, or may be moderate for almost the whole 
year. The east and south-east winds are sirocco (Levanteros), and are often 
accompanied by rain and fogs. 

Sanitary Conditions. 

Water Supply. Quantity is very deficient ; in 1861 only 2J gallons daily 
were supplied for non-commissioned officers and privates. 

Sources. Wells and tanks, rain water, and a small aqueduct carrying sur- 
face water. Nothing has been done to improve the water supply for 150 
years. 

* Mean of eight years' observations by the Royal Engineers (1853-1860), as given in the Bar- 
rack Commissioners' Blue-Book (1863). The numbers given by Dove are rather different, viz., 
mean of year 66. Hottest month, July, 79'5. Coldest month, February, 56 P 6. Mean yearly 
range, 22 '9. Extreme yearly range, about 50. 

f Of the eight years (1853-60) given in the report above quoted, the difference between the 
monthly mean maximum and minimum is so much less in the last three years, as to make one 
suspect some error in observation. 



GIBRALTAR. 529 

Quality. In a well from the neutral ground analysed by Mr Abel, there 
was much sulphate and nitrate of lime (4 -5 and 6 grains per gallon), and car- 
bonate of lime (12 grains per gallon), also alkaline chlorides (7 or 8 grains), 
and 4 grains of organic matter. A tank water contained less lime, but much 
carbonate of magnesia. A well water in the town contained no less than 
49-6 grains of nitrate of lime, and 15 grains of sulphate of lime, per gallon. 
The immense amount of nitric acid points unequivocally to the oxidation of 
animal organic matter. 

In 1861, the storage in the military tanks was 1,971,844 gallons, while 
the daily consumption was 18,759 gallons, which is equal to 6,845,935 
gallons yearly ; or, in other words, the storage is not equal to three months' 
consumption. 

Many of the houses of the civilians have tanks, and no new house is allowed 
to be built without a tank. The distribution of water, both to soldiers and 
civilians, is very defective ; it is almost entirely by hand. 

Drainage, The sewers which exist are badly planned, without ventilation, 
and from bad outfall are liable to be choked ; the sewage is poured out into 
shallow sea- water, which is very offensive ; the supply of water for sewers is 
most deficient. Surface draining and cleansing was, in 1861, extremely de- 
fective. 

Barracks. More than half the garrison is in casemates, which are " mere 
receptacles of foul air, dark, damp, and unwholesome."* The barracks are, for 
the most part, badly arranged, and are over-crowded ; the average cubic space 
(in 1862) was only about 450 feet, and the average superficial space under 40. 
Ventilation is very defective, especially in the casemates. The means of ablu- 
tion are, of course, defective. Latrines and urinals are also defective, t The 
duties are not heavy, and the rations are said to be good. In 1860 some 
improvements were made in the dress of the troops, and a light summer suit 
ordered. Flannel next the skin has been recommended strongly for Gibraltar, 
on account of the occasional cold winds. 

Health of the Civil Population. 

Gibraltar is now a place of considerable trade ; whether the Government 
have been right in allowing a mass of people to herd closely together in the 
midst of the most important fortress we possess, is very questionable. In 
case of a siege they would be a serious embarrassment, and even in time of 
peace they are objectionable. The health of this community is bad ; in 1860, 
the northern district, where population is densest, gave 38 deaths per 1000, 
or, excluding cholera, 3 3 '5 ; in the more thinly populated southern end, the 
mortality was 2 7 '5 per 1000, or more than St Giles', in London. The deaths 
in children under one year form 17*33 per cent, of the total mortality. The 
prevailing causes of this mortality are fevers (in all probability typhoid), and 
tuberculous consumption, which causes 13 per cent, of the total deaths at all 
ages, or 37 -6 per cent, of the total deaths at the soldiers' ages. Dysentery 
and diarrhoea are common. 

In this compressed arid dirty population several great epidemics have 
occurred. The bubo plague has not been seen since 1649 ; but yellow fever 
prevailed in 1804, 1810, 1813, and 1828. Cholera has prevailed several 
times. 

* Barrack Commissioners' Report, p. 37. 

f All these points are noted in the Barrack Commissioners' Report, and will no doubt be 
soon altered ; they are merely referred to here as bearing on the question of the amount and 
prevention of disease. Plans of all the proposed improvements are given in the Commissioners' 
Report. 

2 L 



530 FOREIGN SERVICE. 

An immediate and complete amendment of all these bad sanitary conditions 
is imperatively demanded, on account of the danger to the troops during a 
siege, if for no other reasons. 

HEALTH OF THE TROOPS. 
1. Loss of Strength by Death or Invaliding per 1000 per annum. 

(a.) By Death. From year to year there has been a considerable variation 
in the number of deaths, occasionally as low as 7 '46, and as high as 16-9. 

Vpflr Deaths per 1000 

Years - of Strength. 

1837-56 inclusive, . . . .12-9 

1859 (including deaths in invalids sent home), . 7 '76 

1860 (including deaths in invalids sent home), a cholera year, 11 '06 

1861 . 9-06 

1862 ....... 7-46 

1863 .... . 5-05 

Exclusive of cholera, the yearly mortality seems to be now about 7 or 8 
per 1000. It differs greatly in the different regiments. 

Causes of Death. In the earlier years, the large causes of deaths were 

.^Phthisis, . . 41 per cent of total deaths. 

Fever (typhoid?) . 17-65 
Head affections (D.T.) 9-28 



67-93 

This great amount of phthisis in such a climate naturally excited great 
surprise ; it was certainly not owing to climatic agency, as of late years the 
number of cases has declined; it was almost certainly owing to the great 
crowding and to the number of ill- ventilated casemates inhabited by troops. 
The excess of fevers is seen by comparing the number given above with that 
of the home service. 

^ During the last few years, the mortality from phthisis at Gibraltar has 
lessened, the fevers have increased. 

In 100 Deaths. 

1859. 1860. 1861. 

Phthisis, . . . 12-5 11-3 12 

Fevers (typhoid?) . . . 22-5 9-6 39-95 

The decline of one disease and increase of the other, in the early and late 
periods, is, however, better seen by taking the admissions. 

Admissions per 1000 of Strength 

1837-46. 1859. 1860. 1861. 1862. 1863. 

Tubercular diseases, . 11 6 4'8 8-96-9 9-35 

Continued fevers (typhoid), 75 -46 107-51 59-4 108-3102-6 115 

The decrease in tubercular diseases from 11 to a- mean of 7, maybe owing 
probably to some improvement in ventilation, and to the practice of encamp- 
ing the men out, or it may be more apparent than real ; for, as will be seen 
immediately, a large number of tuberculous cases are sent home. The increase 
in continued fevers must be simply attributable to an increasing imperfection 
in drainage. 

Dysentery and diarrhoea form the next class of diseases, which, in former 
years, caused a considerable mortality and a large number of admissions. 
Their prevalence was nearly three times that of the same affections at home, 



GIBRALTAR. 



531 



and at the same time other digestive diseases of some kind were very fre- 
quent. Of late years they have decreased, but are still more common than 
they should be. There is no doubt that they are owing to impure water, and 
not to any recondite climatic conditions. In 1860 and 1865 cholera pre- 
vailed, and caused an increase in the deaths. 

(&.) By Invaliding. The amount varies considerably from year to year ; in 
1 859-60; the average invaliding for discharge was 10 per 1000 of strength; 
1861, no less than 22'8 ; in 1863, it was 18 : a very large proportion of these 
are tuberculous cases, so that the apparent lessening of these cases of phthisis 
in the death list may simply be that the men are not now allowed to die 
on the Rock. In addition, men are sent home for change of air ; the pro- 
portion is about 20 per 1000 of strength. Cardiac diseases, diseases of 
the eyes, dysentery, and liver diseases, constitute the next chief classes of 
disability. 

The causes of the large proportion of cardiac diseases are not clear, but 
those of the eyes and dysentery are obvious enough. In both cases the water 
is no doubt the main cause ; quantity in the one case, quality in the other, 
being to blame. 

The excess of liver cases is a curious subject, which requires looking into ; 
it was noticed very early in the Statistical Reports. 

The loss at Gibraltar by death and invaliding appears therefore to be from 
20 to 25 men per 1000, or 120 men yearly out of the garrison. 



2. Loss of Service by Sickness. 
Per WOO of Strength. 



YEARS. 


Admissions per 
Annum. 


Mean daily 
Sick. 


Mean Stay in 
Hospital of each 
Sick .Man. 


1837-56, 


976 






1859, 


949 


46-90 


18-04 


1860, 


825 


40-55 


17-93 


1861, 


927 


47-64 


18-75 


1862, 


878 


44-05 


18-30 


1863, 


877 


40-77 


16-96 



Each soldier loses from sickness about sixteen days' service annually, or 
rather less than at home. As compared with home service, the admissions 
are rather fewer ; the mean daily sick rather less, and the duration of cases 
rather less. 

Of the diseases causing admissions, venereal affections are less frequent than 
in England, varying from 127 to 240 per 1000. Integumentary diseases give 
the next greatest number ; phlegmon and ulcers forming the largest number, 
as at home. Continued fevers give the next greatest number, and in 1859 
they amounted to no less than 107 per 1000, or one admission for every ten 
men in the garrison; in 1863 they reached the still higher figure of 115 per 
1000. The digestive and dysenteric diseases come next in order of frequency; 
and after these, rheumatism, which is about as common as at home. 

These figures tell the same tale as the mortality returns. Bad drainage 
and bad water are the causes of the diseases giving the largest number of ad- 
missions. 

Venereal diseases are somewhat less than at home, being repressed by police 

2 L 2 



532 FOKEIGN SERVICE. 

regulations. One point that needs investigation is, whether there is any 
other cause (in food ?) for the rather large number of cases of digestive dis- 
order. 

Sanitary Duties at Gibraltar. Captain Galton and J)r Sutherland have 
already indicated the measures which must be adopted, viz., a better supply 
of water, by arranging a larger storage ; a better drainage, with sea-water for 
flushing, and a different outlet ; and an improved ventilation, with less crowd- 
ing in barracks. There is no doubt these measures will greatly improve health. 

It may be suggested whether, as water is so deficient, a removal of sewage 
by hand might not be employed. The soil might be used for cultivation in 
the neighbourhood of the Eock, or carried out to sea. 

Supposing war were to arise at this moment, and that we lost the command 
of the sea for a time, the points of danger would apparently be these : 

1. Deficient Water, Storage being small, and Main-fall uncertain. This 
would have to be supplied by distillation, and it would be prudent to keep a 
good apparatus always at Gibraltar. 

2. Overcrowding and Bad Ventilation, leading to Spotted Typhus. With 
a full garrison, and with some barracks untenable, there is no doubt there 
would be serious danger of this disease ; and it is a matter of great moment to 
ventilate as perfectly as possible all casemates which, even if now disused, 
must be used in time of war. 

3. Typhoid Fever from Bad Drainage. The drainage should be put into 
thoroughly good order in time of peace, either by adopting good sewers, and 
sea-water for flushing, or using the dry method. 

4. Diseases arising in the Town, and spreading to the Garrison. In case 
of war, it would seem most desirable to clear out the native town as far as it 
can be done. More space and more water would be available. There would 
be less chance of famine, destitution, and disease. 

In the war in 1782, scurvy prevailed from deficiency of food and fresh 
vegetables. 

MALTA. 

Size, 17 miles by 8. Usual peace garrison = 6000 to 7000 ; period of ser- 
vice, three years; population (civil) in 1851 = 98,021. 

Geology. Soft, porous rock ; the greater part is sandstone resting on hard 
limestone ; in some parts marl and coral limestone over the sandstone. In 
the centre of the island, at Citta-Vecehia, there is, in order from the surface, 
alluvium, upper limestone, red sand, marl, sandstone, and lower limestone. 
Yaletta is on thin alluvium, with thick sandstone below, and beneath this 
the lower limestone. 

Climate (at Valetta). Mean of year, 68; hottest month (July), 77" 
coldest (January), 57; amplitude of the yearly fluctuation, 20 ; extreme 
yearly range (from highest to lowest temperature in shade), 62, from 100 in 
July to 39 in January mean yearly range, about 50 ; extreme monthly 
range (i. e., from highest to lowest in month), about 25 to 35. 

Undulations of temperature are frequent, and there are often cold winds 
in winter from N.W. The south-east wind is an oppressive sirocco, raising 
the temperature to 94 or 95. It is chiefly in the autumn, and blows for 
from 60 to 80 days every year. At 'Citta-Vecchia (600 feet above the sea) 
the temperature is lower and the air keener. Kain-fall about 32 inches. 
Chief rain in November, December, and January ; less, in February and 
March ; small in amount in the other months. From June to August almost 
rainless. 



MALTA. 533 

'Humidity. (Mean, of 1859-60); observations at 9 '30 A.M. and 3-30 P.M. 

Grains of 
Dew-point. Vap 

Mean of year, . . 60-5 5'87 62 

Highest in year (August), 727 8'73 

Lowest in year (February), 49 3 '96 

Malta thus appears to be a dry climate, i.e., with little relative humidity. 

Sanitary Condition. 

Much has been done of late years, and, as far as external cleanliness goes, 
Valetta is very clean. Water supply from rain and springs (the largest of 
which is in the centre of the island, and the waters of which are led by 
aqueduct), is not very deficient in quantity (8 to 10 gallons per head), and, 
except in some places, good in quality, though the rain-water contains chlo- 
rides from the spray falling on the roofs of buildings. Some of the tanks are 
too near the sea, which percolates into them. The tanks require, however, 
careful looking after. Within the lines there are 272 public and military 
tanks, with storage for 55 millions of gallons, and 4294 private tanks, with 
storage for 323 millions of gallons. The military tanks, if full, would give 6 
gallons of water per man daily for eleven months, but even now the water often 
falls short. The water is now carried everywhere by hand, v and the drinking- 
water for the men is not filtered. The sewers in Valetta are bad in construc- 
tion and outlet, and much typhoid has been and is still caused in consequence. 
In many cases " they are nothing but long cesspools."* 

The barracks are bad, many casemates being used, and buildings intended 
for stores and not for habitations. In some cases, all sanitary considerations 
have been sacrificed for the purposes of defence. They are built of soft sand- 
stone, which both crumbles and absorbs wet. The ventilation of the case- 
mates is very bad. The Barrack Commissioners, in their Report, recom- 
mended that in every way which can be done the ventilation should be 
improved by admitting the wind, especially from the north, and that each 
barrack will require a separate plan to meet the particular case. They re- 
commend that air shafts shall be made, much larger than ordered for home 
service, viz., 1 square inch for every 20 cubic feet of space, or for a barrack 
of twelve men with regulation space (7200 -=- 20 = ) 360 square inches ( = 2 J 
square feet) of outlet opening. At the present time the amount of cubic space 
is below the home service amount (600 cubic feet), and the superficial area is 
very small, one-fourth of the men having less than 40 square feet each. 

Means for ablution are very deficient. Urinals and water latrines are made 
of porous stone, and are also bad in construction. 

It is therefore evident that the condition of Malta is a parallel to that of 
Gibraltar, and very much the same diseases may be expected, viz., typhoid 
fever from bad drainage, and lung disease from the faulty ventilation. As the 
water is less impure, the amount of dysentery may be expected to be less. 

Health: of the Civil Population. 

There is some, but no great amount, of malarious disease, but a good deal 
of the so-called bilious remittent,t and typhoid. Typhus is not at present 

* Barrack Commissioners' Report, p. 111. 

t See Dr Marston's excellent Report in the Army Medical Report for 1861, for the symptoms 
of this disease among troops. 



534 



FOREIGN SERVICE. 



seen. Bubo plague has prevailed seven times, the last in 1841, slightly. 
Yellow fever has been known, but not of late years. Cholera has occurred 
thrice. Dysentery is common ; tsenia not infrequent ; ophthalmia common, 
from dust and glare. Boils or anthrax are frequent, rheumatism is not un- 
common, and phthisis is said to be frequent (from dust ?). The death rate 
is said to be 21 '3 per 1000 in the towns, and 287 in the country districts; 
while nearly 57 J per cent, of this is in children under five years,* the great 
causes of infantile mortality being registered as teething and convulsions. 

Health of the Troops. 

On the whole, the health of the troops is worse than at Gibraltar, but it has 
singularly fluctuated (even without great epidemics), more so probably than 
at any station in the same latitude. The mortality has varied as much as 
threefold without cholera. 





Loss of Strength per 


Loss of Service per 1000 




1000 per annum. 


per annum. 


YEARS. 


Deaths. 


Invalided 
for 
discharge. 


Admissions. 


Mean daily 
Sick. 


Days in 
Hospital 
;o each sick 
man. 


1837-46, . 


15-3 




1120 


43-79 




1859, 


18-08 


8-29 


1214 


51-81 


18-91 


1860, 


10-59 


6-05 


983 


47-40 


17-30 


1861, 


11-15 


9-20 


772 


48-67 


23-01 


1862, 


9-23 


7-90 


695 


39-27 


20-63 


1863, 


7-31 


13-5 


666 


42-73 


18-79 



Therefore the total loss of men per year is 20 per 1000, or 120 for a garrison 
of 6000, and the days' service lost per annum is 17,078 days out of (365 x 
6000 = ) 2,190,000 days. It will thus be seen that of late years the morta- 
lity and admissions have both declined; but the mortality in former years has 
been as low as 5 -6, and it is impossible to be certain that the present low mor- 
tality will continue. 

In former years phthisis was the cause of 39 per cent, of the deaths, or 
nearly the same as at Gibraltar. Latterly there have been fewer deaths at 
Malta, but a considerable number of tubercular cases are sent home, The 
disease is probably detected more early, and the men do not die as formerly at 
the station. Still this does not account for the whole diminution, and there 
has been clearly a lessening of phthisis. There was a large amount'of stomach 
and bowel disease, and dysentery was forty times as frequent as in England. + 
This is certainly a very remarkable circumstance, that both at Gibraltar and 
Majta there should have been this extraordinary liability to affections of the 
alimentary canal. At Malta, as at Gibraltar, it may have been chiefly owing 
to impure water and to food (Keport of 1853, p. 118). Of late years stomach 
and bowel affections have been less frequent, but are still more common than 

* Report of Barrack Commissioners, p. 87. The Commissioners justly remark that these 
figures are so striking as to demand further inquiry. Probably they are quite untrustworthy, 
yet both at Gibraltar and Malta it would be of the greatest importance, not merely for the 
health of the troops in peace, but for the security of the fortress in war, to know everything 
about the social life and the diseases of the native population. 

f In England, in 1837-46, every 1130 men gave one case of dysentery ; in Malta, in the same 
years, every twenty-eight men gave one case of dysentery. The mortality of the disease was, 
however, nearly the same (see pages 21 and 118 of the Report of 1853). 



MALTA. 535 

at home; in 1861, the 89,000 men on home service gave only' sixty-seven 
cases of acute dysentery and no deaths, while the 6000 men at Malta had 
thirty-four cases and two deaths. 

A continued fever (which was probably in great measure typhoid) has pre- 
vailed more or less for the last forty years at Malta, and doubtless also before 
that time. It has been quite as prevalent and fatal of late years as formerly; 
in 1859 there were 1413 admissions out of a garrison of 5310 men, or at the 
rate of one man in every four; and the deaths from fever were 44 out of 96 
total deaths, or 45*83 of the total mortality. In 1863 there were 844 admis- 
sions and 21 deaths out of a garrison of 5494 men. This is more than in any 
town or village in England. 

In the Statistical Eeport for 1853, it is observed that the number of cases 
of liver disease at Malta are remarkably high ; and the writers, while believing 
there must be " something in the climate of Malta peculiarly favourable to 
the production of hepatic affections," were unable to find, on bringing the 
cases into relation with the temperature, any connection. The cause of this 
may be something very different, and it is very desirable that the food should 
be looked to. There is a suspicion at Netley (which requires a few years 
more experience to test it) that the cases of echinococcus of the liver are 
more frequent in men from the Mediterranean stations than others (Dr 
Maclean). The case of Iceland (see page 175, and the Eeport on Hygiene in 
the Army Medical Eeport for 1862, p. 339) should lead us to look into this 
point. The history of admission for venereal disease is important ; in 1837- 
1846, inclusive, the admissions were only 99 per 1000, or two-thirds less than 
at home; in 1859, when the next report appeared, they were 149 per 1000 ; 
and in 1860 they were 147*9 per 1000. In the early period there were police 
regulations, which were suspended in the two latter years. In June 1861 
the police regulations were re-enforced, and the admission for the year sank to 
102. The 4th battalion of the Eifle Brigade showed the following remarkable 
result : In the first half of 1861, there were fifty-seven admissions ; in the 
last half, only seventeen. In 1862, the total number of cases of " enthetic 
disease" in the whole garrison were only 49*5 ; and in 1863, 44 - 1 per 1000, a 
result which, compared with home service, is marvellous ; the reduction is 
almost entirely of syphilis, not of gonorrhoea. The large number of admissions 
from phlegmon and ulcers is as striking in Malta as at Gibraltar and at home, 
and here as there, these are probably mere conventional terms. Such then, in 
brief, seem to be the chief medical points of importance at Malta, viz., a liability 
to phthisis, less marked of late years ; a great amount of fever, from bad 
sanitary conditions in great part ; a liability to stomach and intestinal affec- 
tions, which, though less obvious, is still great, and a singular tendency to a 
liver affection, which may be parasitic. The chief improvements advised by 
the Barrack Commissioners refer to a larger water supply, a better distribution, 
improved drainage, and efficient ventilation. 

In time of war, the dangers at Malta would be the same as at Gibraltar ; 
the aqueducts might be cut by a besieging force, and the water supply 
restricted to the tanks. Although these are supposed to hold a large quan- 
tity, they are not kept full, and could not, perhaps, be rapidly filled. The 
garrison might be driven to distil the sea water. The Barrack Commissioners 
very properly strongly advise that a tank inspector should be appointed. A 
still more serious danger would be the overcrowding of a war garrison. 
Doubtless, in case of a war, the garrison would only be concentered in the 
lines when the siege commenced, but the crowding during a siege of three or 
six months might be very disastrous. This danger should be provided for 
beforehand by a clear recognition of what accommodation would be wanted 



536 FOREIGN SERVICE. 

for war, and how it is to be obtained without violating either the conditions 
of health or of defence. 

The drainage will no doubt be soon remedied in accordance with the recom- 
mendations of the Barrack Commissioners. 

SECTION II. 
WEST INDIES. 

The history of sanitary science affords many striking instances of the removal 
of disease to an extent almost incredible, but no instance is more wonderful 
than that of the West Indies. Formerly, service in the West Indies was 
looked on as almost certain death. It is not fifty years since the usual time 
for the disappearance of a regiment of 1000 strong was five years. Occasion- 
ally in a single year a regiment would lose 300 men, and there occurred from 
time to time epochs of such fatality that it was a common opinion that some 
wonderful morbid power, returning in cycles of years some wave of poison 
swept over the devoted islands, as sudden, as unlooked-for, and as destructive, 
as the hurricanes which so sorely plague the 

" Golden isles set in the silver sea." 

What gave countenance to this hypothesis was, that sometimes for months, 
or even for a year together, there would be a period of health so great that a 
regiment would hardly lose a man. But another fact less noticed was not so 
consistent with the favourite view. In the very worst years there were some 
stations where the sickness was trifling ; while, more wonderful still, in the 
worst stations, and in the worst years, there were instances of regiments 
remaining comparatively healthy, while their neighbours were literally deci- 
mated. And there occurred also instances of the soldiers dying by scores, 
while the health of the civil inhabitants in the immediate vicinity remained 
as usual. 

If anything more were wanted to show the notion of an epidemic cycle to 
be a mere hypothesis, the recent medical history of the West Indies would 
prove it. At -present this dreaded service has almost lost its terrors. There 
still occur local attacks of yellow fever, which may cause a great mortality ; 
but for these local causes can be found, and apart from these the stations in 
the West Indies can now show a degree of salubrity almost equalling, in 
some cases surpassing, that of the home service. 

The causes of the production, and the reasons of the cessation, of this great 
mortality are found to be most simple. It is precisely the same lesson which 
we should grow weary of learning if it were not so vital to us. The simplest 
conditions were the destructive agents in the West Indies. The years of the 
cycles of disease were the years of overcrowding, when military exigencies 
demanded that large garrisons should hold the island. The sanitary condi- 
tions at all times were, without exception, infamous. 

There was a great mortality from scorbutic dysentery, which was almost 
entirely owing to diet.* Up to within a comparatively late date, the troops 
were fed on salt meat three, and sometimes five, days a-week, and the supply 
of fresh vegetables was scanty. It required all the influence of Lord Howick, 
the then Secretary at War, to cause fresh meat to be issued, though it had 
been pointed out by successive races of medical officers that fresh meat was 
not only more wholesome, but was actually cheaper. The result of an im- 

* This is pointed out, in the Statistical Report (1838) on the West Indies, by Tulloch and 
Balfour ; and it is believed that the improvement in the diet was in a great measure owing to 
these gentlemen. 



WEST INDIES. 537 

provement in the diet was marvellous; the scorbutic dysentery at once 
lessened, and the same amount of mortality from this cause is now never 
seen. Another cause of dysentery was to be found in the water, which was 
impure from being drawn from calcareous strata, or was turbid and loaded 
with sediment. The substitution of rain water has sufficed in some stations 
to remove the last traces of dysentery. 

If the food and water were bad, the air was not less so. Sir Alexander 
Tulloch has given a picture of a single barrack at Tobago, said to be the 
"best in the whole Windward and Leeward Command,"* the figures of which 
tell their own tale. 

Barrack at Tobago in 1826. Superficial space per man, 22^ feet; breadth, 
23 inches ; cubic space, 250 feet. 

The men slept in hammocks, touching each other. In these barracks, crowded 
as no barracks were even in the coldest climates, there was not a single venti- 
lating opening except the doors and windows ; the air was foetid in the highest 
degree. With this condition of atmosphere, it is impossible not to bring into 
connection the extraordinary amount of phthisis which prevailed in the soft 
and equable climate of the West Indies. There was more phthisis than in 
England, and far more than in Canada. The first great improvement was 
made in 1827, when iron bedsteads being introduced, each 3 feet 3 inches 
wide, greater space was obliged to be given to each man. 

Every arrangement for removal of sewage was barbarous, and in every bar- 
rack sewage accumulated round the buildings, and was exposed to heat and 
air. When yellow fever attacked a regiment, every stool and evacuation was 
thrown into the cesspools common to all the regiment ; and in this way the 
disease was propagated with great rapidity, and was localised in a most singular 
manner, so that a few hundred yards from a barrack, where men were dying 
by scores, there would be no case of fever. In spite of this, it was many years 
before the plan of at once evacuating a barrack where yellow fever prevailed 
was adopted. 

The barracks themselves were usually very badly constructed, and when in 
some cases the architects had raised the barracks on arches from the ground, 
in order to insure perflation of air below the buildings, the arches were blocked 
up or converted into store-rooms ; and the barracks, with spaces thus filled 
with stagnant air beneath them, were more unhealthy than if they had been 
planted on the ground. 

The localities for barracks were often chosen without consideration, or for 
military reasons,t into which no consideration of health entered. Almost all 
were on the plains, near the mercantile towns, where the soil was most mala- 
rious, and the climate hottest and most enervating. Malarious fevers were, 
therefore, common. 

To all these causes of diseases were added the errors of the men themselves. 
For the officers there existed, in the old slave times, the greatest temptation. 
A reckless and dangerous hospitality reigned everywhere ; the houses of the 

" * Report, 1838. 

~\ The history of the old St James's Barracks in Trinidad is too remarkable to be passed over. 
It was determined to build a strong fort a second Gibraltar on the lower spurs of the hills 
overlooking the plain where the barracks now stand. When the works had been carried on for 
some time, it was discovered that they could not hold the troops. The barracks were then 
ordered to be placed on the plain, under cover of the guns of the foil. Before the fort was 
quite finished, it was found to be so unhealthy that neither white nor black men could live 
there, and it was abandoned. The barrack, it is said, was not then commenced ; yet, though 
the reason for placing it in that spot had gone, it was still built there, on a piece of ground 
near two marshes (Cocorite and the Great Western Marsh), below the general level of the plain, 
and exposed to the winds from the gullies of the neighbouring hills. Yet this bad position, so 
fruitful of disease, was in reality less injurious than the local bad sanitary arrangements of the 
old St James's Barrack itself. 



538 FOREIGN SERVICE. 

rich planters were open to all. A man was deemed churlish who did not 
welcome every comer with a full wine, or more often a brandy cup. 

In a climate where healthy physical exertion was deemed impossible, or was 
at any rate distasteful, it was held to be indispensable to eat largely to maintain 
the strength. To take two breakfasts, each a substantial meal, was the usual 
custom; a heavy late dinner, frequently followed by a supper, succeeded; and 
to spur the reluctant appetite, glasses of bitters and spirits were taken before 
meals. 

The private soldiers obtained without difficulty abundance of cheap rum, 
which was often poisoned with lead. Drunkenness was almost universal, and 
the deaths from delirium tremens were frequent and awfully sudden. The 
salt meat they were obliged to eat caused a raging thirst, which the rum bottle 
in reality only aggravated. 

To us these numerous causes seem sufficient to account for everything, but 
in former days an easier explanation was given. It was held to be the climate ; 
and the climate, as in other parts of the world besides the West Indies, became 
the convenient excuse for pleasurable follies and agreeable vices. In order 
to do away with the effects of this dreaded climate, some mysterious power 
of acclimatisation was invoked. The European system required time to get 
accustomed, it was thought, to these climatic influences, and in order to 
quicken the process various measures were proposed. At one time it was 
the custom to bleed the men on the voyage, so that their European blood 
might be removed, and the fresh blood which was made might be of the kind 
most germane to the West Indies. At other times an attack of fever (often 
brought on by reckless drinking and exposure) was considered the grand pre- 
servative, and the seasoning fever was looked for with anxiety. The first 
statistical report of the army swept away all these fancies, and showed con- 
clusively that instead of prolonged residence producing acclimatisation and 
lessening disease, disease and mortality increased regularly with every year of 
residence. 

The progress of years has given us a different key to all these results. It 
is now fully recognised that in the West Indies, as elsewhere, the same cus- 
toms will insure the same results. Apart from malaria, we hold our health 
and life almost at will. The amount of sickness has immensely decreased ; 
occasionally in some stations which used to be very fatal (as at Trinidad) there 
has not been a single death in a year among 200 men. Among the measures 
which have wrought such marvels in the West Indies have been 

1. A better supply of food ; good fresh meat is now issued, and vegetables, 
of which there is an abundance everywhere. 

2. Better water. 

3. More room in barracks, though the amount of cubic space is still small. 

4. Kemoval of some of the stations from the plains to the hills : a measure 
which has done great good, but which can explain only a portion of the im- 
provement. The proper height to locate troops is by most army surgeons 
considered to be at some point above 2500 feet. 

5. Better sewage arrangements, and more attention generally to sanitary 
conservancy. 

6. A more regular and temperate life, both in eating and drinking, on the 
part both of officers and men. 

7. The occupancy of the unhealthy places, when retained as stations, by 
black troops. 

8. A better dress. It is only, however, within the last few years that a 
more suitable dress has, at the instance of the present Director-General, been 
provided for the West India islands. 



WEST INDIES. 539 

The army stations in the West Indies are, Jamaica, Barbadoes, Trinidad, 
St Lucia ; the last three being included in the term " Windward and Leeward 
Command." British Guiana, on the mainland, is part of this command. 
There are small parties of artillery and some black troops in Honduras and 
the Bahamas. 

The period of service is now three or four years ; formerly it was eleven 
or twelve, but this was altered after the first statistical report. Usually the 
Mediterranean regiments pass on to the West Indies, and subsequently to 
Canada. 

The proper time for arriving in the West Indies is in the beginning of the 
cold season, viz., about the beginning of December, when the hurricanes and 
autumnal rains are usually over. 

JAMAICA. 

Present strength of white garrison, 600 to 700 ; black troops, 700 to 800. 
A range of lofty hills (Blue Mountains) divides Jamaica into two parts, con- 
nected by a few passes. The troops were formerly stationed chiefly in the 
south plains, at Kingston, Port-Koyal, Spanish Town, Up-Park Camp, Fort- 
Augusta, &c. After the Maroon war in 1795, some troops were stationed at 
Maroon Town (2000 feet above the sea) on the north side, and at Montego 
Bay. Subsequently Stoney Hill (1380 feet above the sea), at the mouth of 
one of the passes, was occupied. 

Since 1842 some, and now nearly all the troops, are at Newcastle, in the 
hills, 4000 feet above the sea, with detachments at Kingston and Port-Royal. 
The other stations are now disused for white troops. The sanitary condition 
at Newcastle was formerly not good ; the sewage arrangements were very im- 
perfect ; it is now somewhat improved. 

Climate. The climate is very different at the different stations. At King- 
ston (sea-level) temperature, mean of year=78'0; hottest month, July, 
mean = 81 0> 71 ; coldest month, January, mean.= 75'65 ; mean yearly fluctua- 
tion = 6 '06. Undulations trifling. The climate is limited and equable. At 
Newcastle, the mean annual temperature is about 66; hottest month, 
August = 67 '75 j coldest month, February, = 61. The diurnal range is 
considerable, but the annual fluctuation is trifling (about 6). The mean of 
the year is therefore much lower than on the plains ; the amplitude of the 
yearly fluctuation about the same ; the diurnal change greater. 

Humidity. This is considerable in the plains often from 80 to 90 per 
cent, of saturation = 7 to 9 grains of vapour in a cubic foot. At Newcastle 
the mean yearly dew-point is about 60 ; the amount of vapour in a cubic 
foot of air is 5-77 ; the mean yearly relative humidity is 68 per cent, of 
saturation. 

Rain. Amount on the plains = 50 to 60 inches, in spring and autumn, viz., 
April and May, and October and November. Showers in July and August. 

Winds. Tolerably regular land winds at night, and sea breezes during the 
hot and dry months during the heat of the day. The central chain of moun- 
tains turns the north-east trade wind, so that it reaches the south side diverted 
from its course ; from December to February the wind is often from the north, 
and brings rain and fogs (" wet northers"). The south-east wind in April and 
May is very moist. The hurricane months are from the end of July to the 
beginning of November. The climate in the plains is therefore hot, equable, 
and humid. 

Health of the Slack Civil Population. 

Of the specific diseases, smallpox and the other exanthemata are common. 



540 



FOREIGN SERVICE. 



Spotted typhus is said to be unknown ; typhoid is said to be uncommon, but 
is probably more common than is supposed. Influenza has prevailed at times, 
and also the so-called dandy or polka. Cholera has prevailed severely. Malarious 
fever is common over the whole of the south plains. Yellow fever is common, 
though less frequent and severe among the blacks than the whites. Dysen- 
tery is common, though it has always been less frequent than among the 
troops. Organic heart disease is frequent. Liver diseases are uncommon. 
Spleen disease, in the form of leucocythaemia, is common among the blacks 
(Smarda). Gout is said to be frequent, and scrofula and rickets to be infre- 
quent. Syphilis is not common, but gonorrhoea is. Cancroid of the skin 
and elephantiasis of the Arabs (Pachydermia) are common. Leprosy is also 
seen. 

Health of the Troops. 

In the years 1790-93, the annual mortality of the white troops varied in the 
different stations from 111 (Montego Bay) to 15 '7 per 1000 of strength at 
Stoney Hill (1380 feet above sea level). In the years 1794-97, the mortality 
was much greater, the most unhealthy regiment in the plains lost 333 ; the 
most healthy, 45*4 per 1000 of strength ; at the hill station of Maroon Town 
(2000 feet), the mortality was, however, only 15*6 per 1000. In the years 
1817-36, the mean mortality was 121-3; the mean of the four healthiest 
years gave 67, and of the four unhealthiest years, 259 per 1000. The causes 
of death in these twenty years was 



Fevers, . 
Lung diseases, . 
Bowel complaints, 
Brain disease, 
Liver diseases, . 
Other complaints, 



101-9 per 1000 of strength. 
7-5 
5-1 
2-6 

1 
3-2 



121-3 



The admissions in these years were 1812 per 1000 of strength. In 1837-55, 
the following were the mean results : Mortality per 1000 of strength white 
troops, 60'8; black troops, 38'2. Admissions, per 1000 white troops, 1371 ; 
black troops, 784. So that the mortality had declined one-half. At present, 
the statistics of the white troops are 

Per 1000 of Strength, 



YEABS. 


Mortality (in- 
cluding Violent 
Deaths). 


Invalided for 
Discharge. 


Admissions. 


Mean Daily 
Sick. 


Mean Time in 
Hospital of 
each Sick Man. 


1859, 


14-42 


4-8 


1335 


58-08 


15-88 


1860, 


20-02 


17-7 


816-5 


23-95 


10-71 


1861, 


9-43 


1-57 


819 


29-87 


13-31 


1862, 


12-81 


4-3 


644 


44-79 


15-85 


1863, 


9-02 


13-8 


947-6 


36-91 


14-22 



The difference between these figures and those formerly given is indeed 
most remarkable ; the small number of admissions, the small mortality, and 
the short period in hospital, contrast favourably even Mdth home service. The 
decrease in admissions is chiefly owing to the lessening of paroxysmal fevers 



WEST INDIES. 541 

consequent on removal from the plains; (in 1859, Newcastle gav.e 29*1 ad- 
missions, and Port-Koyal 443 '5 per 1000 of strength, from malarious disease). 
In 1863, some white troops were sent to Up-Park Camp, and furnished a large 
number of malarious cases (547 '6 admissions per 1000 of strength), while at 
Newcastle they were only 48 per 1000. The decrease in the mortality is 
owing to lessened fever and dysentery. Among the black troops there is 
now greater sickness and mortality than among the whites ; the mortality in 
1837-1855, was 38-2 per 1000; in 1860, 31-42; in 1861, 18-65; and in 
1862, 30-25 per 1000. There is among these troops a large mortality from 
paroxysmal fevers, phthisis, and diseases of the alimentary canal, and it is 
evident that this condition requires a close examination. 

The mortality of the white troops shows a marked increase with age. 

The following seem to be the most important points connected with the 
white troops which require notice. 

It is impossible to avoid paroxysmal fevers without placing all the troops 
in the hills, and it is very desirable Newcastle should be made the only sta- 
tion for white troops. 

The possibility of yellow fever occurring at an elevation of 4000 feet, was 
shown by the appearance of yellow fever at Newcastle in 1860. In that 
year occurred the remarkable instances of contagion on board the ships Icarus 
and Imaum described by Dr Bryson. Whether yellow fever was imported 
into Newcastle or not was a subject of discussion ; it certainly appears pro- 
bable that it was carried there ; but the important point for us is that mere 
elevation is not a perfect security. There were, however, only a small num- 
ber of cases. 

In the returns for a number of years past, cases are returned as " continued 
fever;" it has never yet been clearly made out whether or not these were 
cases of typhoid fever ; but the existence of typhoid fever in India, on the 
west coast of Africa, in Algeria, and in other tropical countries, makes it 
possible that typhoid fever does occur in Jamaica. 

Formerly there were a large number of cases of phthisis ; phthisis is now 
uncommon; in 1817-36 lung diseases (almost entirely phthisis) caused 7 '5 
deaths per 1000 of strength, or more than in England. In 1859-60 the ratio 
was only 2-46 per 1000 of strength, and in 1861, out of 636 men there was 
not a single death, though four men were sent home with consumption. 

In 1862 there was 1 death from phthisis in Jamaica, and 1 in an invalid 
sent home, or at the rate of 2-85 per 1000 of strength, which is rather greater 
than formerly, but still below the home standard. In 1863 the number was 
greater; there were 3 deaths out of 477 men, or 6-28 per 1000 of strength. 

At Newcastle there occurred for some years an excess of affections of the 
alimentary canal, chiefly indigestion ; at present these have lessened, but it 
would be important to make out the cause. In 1860 there was not a single 
admission from dysentery at any station. 

In the worst times in Jamaica it was always remarked that there was 
rather a singular exemption from acute liver disease ; very few cases appear in 
the returns under hepatitis ; whether this is a matter of diagnosis, or whether 
there was really an immunity compared with India or the Mauritius, is a 
question of great interest which cannot now be solved. At present, liver 
disease unconnected with drinking is uncommon. 

There is still too much drinking, and the medical officers have strongly 
advised the issue of beer instead of the daily dram. 

Venereal diseases have never prevailed much in Jamaica ; they have caused, 
on an average, from 70 to 90 admissions per 1000 of strength. In 1862 
there were only 47 admissions per 1000 of strength. This is owing to the 



542 FOREIGN SERVICE. 

connection usually formed between the black women and the soldiers, and to 
a lessened amount of promiscuous intercourse. 

Under the present system there seems little chance of the sickness and 
mortality of Jamaica becoming excessive; but if war came, and it were con- 
sidered necessary to have a large force there, and the barracks in the plains 
were reoccupied and overcrowded, the old state of things would at once recur. 
This seems to be the only danger to be avoided, and probably there would be 
no military objection to keeping the troops on the hills, unless in the case of 
the actual presence of a hostile force. 

TRINIDAD. 

Strength of garrison, 200 men. 

Geology. Tertiary formation of miocene age; central range of hills is an in- 
durated formation of cretaceous age ; the northern littoral range consists of 
micaceous slates, sandstones, limestones, and shales. The highest hill is 3012 
feet; the central hill (Tamana) is 1025 ; -^yth of the island is swampy. 

Climate. Temperature of the plains: Mean of year about 79'3 ; coldest 
month, January = 78 ; hottest month, May = 81-5 ; next hottest, October = 
80 *4. Mean annual fluctuation, 3 '5. The climate is therefore very equable 
and limited. There are, however, cold winds from the hills blowing over 
small areas. 

Hygrometry. Mean dew-point, 75*1, mean relative humidity = 81 per 
cent, of saturation ; mean weight of vapour in a cubic foot = 9 - 4 grains ; most 
humid month is May, as far as the amount of vapour is concerned. Month 
with greatest relative humidity, August. 

Winds from east to north-east and south-east. West winds rare, and oppres- 
sive. 

Rain on the Plains about 60 to 70 inches. Greatest rain-fall in one day, 
4 -6 7 inches. Dry season, December to May. June and July showery. 
Heavy rain in August, September, and October. 

Sanitary Condition. St James's Barrack is on a depression on an alluvial 
soil three miles from Port of Spain, the capital; it is one mile from the 
Cocorite, and three from the Great Eastern Swamp ; the drainage, for many 
years most defective, is now improved, as the main sewer is carried to the 
sea. On many occasions yellow fever has prevailed in this barrack, and no- 
where else in the island ; the last occasion was in 1858-59, and then it was 
proposed by Dr Jameson (the principal medical officer) to erect barracks on a 
spot 2200 feet above sea-level. 

The capital, the Port of Spain, is built at the principal outfall of the 
island ; it is on a low and unhealthy plain. Formerly, it was so unhealthy as 
to be scarcely habitable, but after being well drained and paved by Sir Ralph 
Woodford, it became much healthier. This was the result of great sanitary 
efforts in a very unpromising locality, and should be a lesson for all climates. 

There is still, however, much malarious disease, dysentery, and at times 
yellow fever, but this last disease has occasionally been very severe at St 
James's Barracks, without a single case being seen in Port of Spain. The 
ascent of the malaria from the barrack plain is certainly more than 500, and 
probably as much as 1000 feet. 

Diseases of Troops. The state of health has been and is very similar to 
that of Jamaica, with, however, a larger percentage in former years both of 
phthisis and diseases of the stomach and bowels, chiefly dysentery. 

In the years 1817-1836, the average mortality of the white troops was 
106*3 per 1000 of strength, and of these deaths there were 



BAKBADOES. 543 

From fevers, ..'......, 

Lung diseases, .... 

Diseases of stomach and bowels, 
Dropsies (probably partly malarious, partly renal), . 
Brain disease (especially from intemperance), 
Liver diseases, . . . . . 

All other diseases, 

106-3 

As in Jamaica, the statistics of the white troops of late years tell a very 
different story. 

Per 1000 of Strength. 

Mortality from Disease, 

Years. Suicides and Violence 

excluded. 

1859, . . . . 84-27 1452-7 

1860, .... 1357-4 

1861, .... 8-88 1079-8 

1862, .... 5-15 1180-4 

1863, .... 16-12 7S6--2 

In 1859 there were only 190 men on the island; yellow fever broke 
out in St James's Barracks, and caused 10 deaths. There were 4 deaths 
from delirium tremens and one suicide. Had there been no yellow fever, no 
drinking, and no suicide, there would have been in 1859 only 2 deaths from 
disease, or 10*1 per 1000, and both these were from some form of fever. 

Among the diseases in the returns, the largest item is malarious fever ; there 
are also cases of " continued fever," as in Jamaica, and this term, in fact, has 
never been absent from the reports. Is this typhoid fever 1 ? A considerable 
number of cases of dyspepsia are admitted; in 1860 there were 16 cases out 
of 221 men, or 72 per 1000 of strength. In 1862 there were 103 per 1000 ad- 
missions from " digestive" diseases. Venereal diseases have always been low; 
in 1860, 1861, and 1862 there were only 49'8, 44-4, and 20-6 admissions 
per 1000 of strength. Dysentery is now infrequent. In 1860, out of 221 
men, and in 1861, out of 225 men, there was not a single case. Phthisis is 
much less common, yet in some years there is still too much of it. 

It is evident that if Dr Jameson's suggestion is acted upon, and the troops 
are removed up to the hills, malarious fever will disappear, and yellow fever 
can be prevented. In such a case, if the men will abstain from drinking, this 
island, which formerly killed rather more than 1 man in every 10 yearly, 
will be one of the healthiest spots in the world. 

The black troops are now less healthy than the white, having in 1860 and 
1861 an annual mortality of nearly 21 per 1000. Their condition requires 
looking into. 

The invaliding from Trinidad is 'combined in the Army Eeports with that 
of the other islands of the Windward and Leeward Commands. 

BAEBADOES. 

Strength of Garrison, 500 to 600 men. 

Geology. Limestone (coralline) ; sandstone (tertiary) ; beds of bituminous 
matter and coal (tertiary), clay in parts (especially in the hilly district called 
" Scotland"). 

An open country, well-cultivated, no marshes except a small one at Graeme 
Hall, one mile to the east of St Ann's Barracks. 



544 FOREIGN SERVICE. 

The country is divided into two parts : a mountainous district termed 
" Scotland," and a lower country consisting of a series of five gigantic terraces, 
rising with some regularity one above the other. The highest hill is 1 1 00 feet. 

Climate of the Plain. Temperature : Mean of year, 80 ; hottest month 
(October), 83 ; coldest month (January), 78 ; mean yearly fluctuation, 5. 
Climate equable and limited. 

Wind. N.E. trade, strongest in February to May ; weak in September to 
November inclusive ; hurricane month, August. 

Rain. About 56 to 58 inches, on an average, but varying a good deal in 
the autumn chiefly, though there is rain in all months, but much less. The 
dry season is from December to May. 

Water. Formerly supplied from wells ; it was highly calcareous. At 

E resent good water is supplied by a water company. Kain water is also col- 
icted in tanks. 

Sanitary Condition. St Ann's Barracks are placed above one and a-half 
mile from Bridgetown, on the sea ; the locality and the construction of the 
barracks have been much complained of, and a position in the hills advised.* 
Arrangements for sewering and the water supply were both formerly bad ; 
considerable improvements have been made, and, since 1862, 30,000 gallons 
are supplied daily to St Ann's Barracks. It is a limestone water, containing 
carbonate of lime, but no sulphate of lime, and is remarkably free from 
organic matter. The total solids are 18 '72 grains per gallon. The troops are 
still too much crowded in barracks, the allowance being under 600 cubic feet. 

Formerly vegetables were very deficient in Barbadoes, and even now there is 
some difficulty in procuring them. They are often imported from other islands. 

Diseases among Civil Population. Yellow fever has appeared frequently, 
although the island is not marshy. It is not so frequent as formerly it used 
to be expected every four years. 

Barbadoes and Trinidad contrast greatly in the freedom from marshes of the 
one, and the prevalence of marshes and malarious disease in the other ; yet 
Barbadoes has had as much yellow fever as Trinidad. 

Dysentery was common formerly, partly from bad water ; influenza has 
been epidemic several times. Barbadoes leg, or Elephantiasis of the Arabs, is 
frequently seen. Leprosy, or Elephantiasis Grsecorum, is also not very uncom- 
mon. Variola and Pertussis have from time to time been very bad. 

Hillary, in 1766, described a "slow nervous fever," under which term our 
typhoid fever appears to have been indicated by most writers of that period. 
His description is not quite clear, but resembles typhoid fever more than any 
other. He also speaks of " diarrhoea febrilis." Can this have been typhoid? 
Of late years, there has been no evidence of typhoid to my knowledge. 

The heading "continued fever" appears in the Army Eeturns; from 1517-36, 
there were 169 cases. 

Dracunculus was formerly very frequent, and Hillary attributes it to the 
drinking water, and states that there were some ponds, the water of which 
was known to " generate the worm if washed in or drank." 

Yaws used to be common. 

Colica pictonum was formerly frequent. 

Diseases of Troops. Yellow fever has several times been very fatal. 

Scorbutic dysentery, arising from the wretched food, was formerly very fre- 
quent, and appears from Sir Andrew Halliday's work to have been very bad 
even in his time (1823 to 1832). 

* For an extremely good and concise account of Barbadoes, see Dr Jameson's Report in the 
Army Medical Report for 1861, p. 261. 



ST LUCIA. 545 

From 1817 to 1836 (20 years) 

Average Mortality (white troops), 58'5 per 1000 of strength. 
Greatest, . . 204 (in 1817). 

Least, . . 18 (in 1823). 

In 1817 there were 1654 men on the island, and yellow fever broke out. 
In 1823 there were only 791. 

Of late years, as in all the other islands, the sickness and mortality has 
been comparatively trifling. 



Per 1000 of Strength. 
Deaths 

Admissions, (exclusive of 
Suicides). 

1859, . . . 1051 6-36 

I860,. . . 1018 5-15 



Per 1000 of Strength. 
Admissions. Deaths. 

1862, . . . 1120 16-77 

1863, . . . 1106-9 5-2 



1861, . . . 974.5 2-54 

The increased mortality of 1862 was owing to yellow fever. It appeared 
first among the civil population in Bridgetown, and afterwards attacked the 
troops in the (stone) barracks. As it continued to spread, the men were 
moved out and placed under canvas, with the best effects. A remarkable 
feature of this epidemic was that the officers suffered in attacks six-fold more 
than the men, and had a mortality more than twenty-fold. The women also 
suffered three-fold more than the men. Formerly the case would have been 
reversed. In 1861 there were only two deaths out of 787 men, one from 
phthisis and one from apoplexy. 

Dysentery is now uncommon. 

The great improvement to be made at Barbadoes is decidely a complete 
change of barracks. The persistent recurrence of yellow fever in these old 
barracks, with their imperfect arrangements, shows them to be the main cause 
of the appearance of the disease. The cost of a single epidemic would amply 
repay the outlay. 

As in the other islands, the black troops are now much more unhealthy 
than the white, and the sanitary condition of their barracks and their fooij 
evidently require looking into. 

ST LUCIA. 

Strength of Garrison, = 100 men. 

St Lucia is divided into two parts : Basseterre, the lowest and most culti- 
vated part, is very swampy ; Capisterre, hilly, with deep narrow ravines, full 
of vegetation. The climate is similar to that of the other islands, but is more 
rainy and humid. 

Diseases of the Troops. From 181736; average strength, 241 ; average 
deaths, 30 - 122*8 per 1000 of strength. Of the 122-8 deaths, 63'1 were from 
fevers, 39-3 from bowel disease, and 12 -5 from lung disease. 

Pigeon Island (a few miles from St Lucia) was formerly so unhealthy that 
on one occasion 22 men out of 55 died of dysentery in one year, and of the 
whole 55 men not one escaped sickness. The cause is supposed to have been 
bad water. Now, Pigeon Island is considered healthy. 

Although the mortality was formerly so great, St Lucia has been very 
healthy for some years. 

. In 1859, mean strength, 96; admissions, 113, and there was not a single 
death, although, if the mortality had been at the rate of the twenty years 
ending 1836, 12 men would have died. 

Better food, some improvement in barracks, and the use of rain instead of 
well water, have been the causes of this extraordinary change. 

2 M 



546 FOKEIGN SERVICE. 

22 men were admitted with "continued fever," 18 with ophthalmia, and 
only two with venereal. 

In 1860 there was no case of dysentery and only two of diarrhoea among 
100 men in this island, where formerly there would have been not only many 
cases, "but four deaths. One man died from phthisis, or at the rate of 10 per 
1000. 

In 1861, out of 94 men, there was one death from jaundice, or at the rate 
of 10-6 per 1000. 

In 1862 there were 88 men on the island; one man was drowned; there 
was no death from disease. No case of jaundice was admitted. 

In 1863 there were 55 men, and one death from accident; there were 64 
admissions, of which 15 were accidents. 

Invaliding. In 1859-61 there were discharged from the Windward and 
Leeward Command 8 per 1000 of strength, and in 1862, 22 per 1000. The 
cause of the increase in the latter year was chiefly from eye diseases. 

BRITISH GUIANA. 

Strength of Garrison, = 200 to 300 men. 

This other station in the West Indian Command is on the mainland, 
extending from the equator (nearly) to 10 IN"., 200 to 300 miles, and inland 
to an uncertain distance. 

It is a flat alluvial soil of clay and sand, covered with vegetation. 

The water is not good ; it is drawn from a fresh- water lake and an artesian 
well ; the water from this well contains a good deal of iron. 

Trade-winds from N.E. and E. for nine months. In July, August, and 
September, S.E. and S. and land-winds. This is the unhealthy season. 

Two wet seasons, January and June ; the last is the longest. 
Temperature of summer, 86; of winter, 82. Rain about 160 inches. 

Formerly there was an enormous mortality among the troops from yellow 
fever and scorbutic dysentery. The men used to have salt meat five times 
a-week. 

The climate is most highly malarious, but this does not cause much mortality. 

Yellow fever has prevailed here several times. On the last occasion, 1861, 
the troops were moved out and encamped at some distance from Georgetown ; 
they escaped (seven mild cases only), although they were on a swampy plain. 

In 181736, the average deaths were 74 per 1000 of strength. 

In 1859, out of a mean strength of 143, there were 156 admissions =1091 
per 1000 of strength ; 2 deaths = 13 -9 per 1000 of strength. One death from 
apoplexy, one from drowning. The deaths from disease were only 6*9 per 
1000. Of the 156 admissions, no less than 81 were from malarious disease, 
or at the rate of 519 per 1000 of strength, or nearly one-half the total 
admissions. 

In 1860, 1861, and 1862, the admissions from malarious disease con- 
tinued high (673, 1380, and 1104 per 1000 of strength), the mortality was 
very small, being only 6*6 per 1000 in each year; in fact, the single death in 
1860 and in 1861 was in one year from " acute hepatitis," and in the other 
from accident. In 1862, in spite of the immense malarious disease, there was 
no death. In 1863, there was a great reduction in the admissions from, malari- 
ous disease ; there were only 51 admissions among 133 men, or 377 per 1000 
of strength. There was no death in that year. Some important lessons are 
drawn from the medical history of this station. It has been shown that even 
in a high malarious country yellow fever is not common, and that it may 
be escaped by change of ground, although the men are still obliged to 



BERMUDA. 



547 



encamp on a swamp. Another remarkable point is the very small mortality 
attending the paroxysmal fevers. It would he very interesting to* know the 
future history of such men, but it cannot be doubted that the lessened mor- 
tality since former years must be owing to better treatment. 

The extent of malarious disease shows how desirable it would be to avoid 
sending white troops to Demerara, or, if this cannot be avoided, to change 
the men every year, and, during their service, to use quinine as a prophylactic 
regularly. 

In French Guiana, Dr Laure, besides malarious fevers, describes typhoid 
fever to have been seen for some short time after the arrival of French poli- 
tical prisoners after the coup d'etat of 1851. It then disappeared. 

BAHAMAS AND HONDURAS. 

The black troops garrison both those places, and show a degree of mortality 
nearly the same as in the other stations, the amount of phthisis being very 
great. In 1862, at the Bahamas, there were no less than 4 deaths out of a 
strength of 439, or at the rate of 9*1 per 1000 of strength; there were also 
3 deaths from pneumonia and 1 from pleurisy. Out of 2 7' 31 deaths per 
1000 of strength, no less that 18 '2 (or 66 per cent, of total deaths) were from 
phthisis and other lung diseases. This is evidently a matter for careful 
inquiry. 

At Honduras, among the black troops, the deaths from tubercular disease, 
in 1862, were 3 -2 6 per 1000 of strength. 



SECTION III 
BEEMUDA. 

Usual strength of garrison about 1100 to 1300 men. 

Climate. Hot, equable, and rather limited. 

Temperature. Mean of year, 74 ; hottest month (July), 83 0- 5 ; coldest 
month (February), 64 '5 ; amplitude of yearly fluctuation, 19 0- 0. 

The sanitary condition is very bad ; there are no sewers, and no efficient 
dry method removal. Rain water is used for drinking. 

Diseases of the Troops. 





Loss of Strength per 


Loss of Service per 1000 of 




1000 of Strength. 


Strength. 


YEARS. 






















Days in 




Deaths, 
all kinds. 


Invaliding. 


Admissions. 


Daily Sick. 


Hospital 
to each 












Sick Man. 


1817-36, . . 


28-8 




768 






1837-46, . . 


35-5 




1080 






1859, . . . 


11-16 




537 


35-11 


23-75 


1860. . 


8-55 


6*6 


752 


39-01 


18-94 


1861, . . . 


13-86 


8-9 


461-4 


24-75 


19-58 


1862, . . . 


11-75 


8-63 


767-0 


29-80 


14-18 


1863, . . . 


11-10 




684 


31 


14-11 



2 M 2 



548 FOREIGN SERVICE. 

This history of the West Indies may be applied to Bermuda, though, with 
the exception of yellow-fever years, it never showed the great mortality of the 
West Indies. There is no great amount of paroxysmal fevers ; in ten years 
(1837-46) there were only 29 admissions out of an aggregate strength of 
11,224 men. 

Yellow fever has prevailed eight or nine times in two centuries. 

In 1819 it destroyed th of the force. 
1837 it appeared but did not spread. 
1843 it destroyed ^-th of the force. 
1847 it caused a large mortality. 
1853 
1856 
1864 

The history of the yellow fever in 1864 is given in detail by Dr Barrow.* 

The total mortality was 14 officers, 173 men, 5 women, and 4 children. 
The deaths to strength were, among the officers, 18*9, and among the men, 
14-9 per cent. This was owing to a large number of deaths among the medical 
officers. 

The town of St George's in Bermuda presents every local condition for the 
spread of yellow fever ; the town is quite unsewered ; badly supplied with 
water ; badly built. 

" Continued fevers" (no doubt in part typhoid) have always prevailed more 
or less at Bermuda. In the ten years (183746) they gave 1004 admissions 
out of 11,224 men, or 88 per 1000 of strength, being much greater than at 
home. 

In 1859 there were only 11 cases of " continued fever" out of 1074 men; 
but in 1860 " continued fever" prevailed severely (209 cases in 1052 men). 
It was of a mild type, and caused little mortality. It was probably not 
typhoid, but I have learned nothing definite of its nature. It prevailed in 
September, October, and November. Was it mild, bilious, remittent, or " re- 
lapsing fever ?" It is said that the drainage was defective at Hamilton. 

Formerly tuberculous diseases caused a considerable mortality. In the years 
1817-36, diseases of the lungs gave a mortality of no less than 8'7 per 1000 
of strength. In 1837-46, the lung diseases gave a yearly mortality of 8 '3 
per 1000 of strength. Of late years the amount has decreased. The admis- 
sions and deaths were 7'3 and 2 '55 per 1000 in 1859-60, and 11 and -78 per 
1000 in 1862. 

Diarrhoea and dysentery were also formerly very common, but of late years 
there has been a great decrease. Diseases of the eyes are common. 

There has always been much intemperance, and a large number of deaths 
from delirium tremens. 

Venereal (enthetic) diseases have averaged from 55 to 80 per 1000 of 
strength. 

In considering the sanitary measures to be adopted at Bermuda, it would 
seem that drainage and ventilation are still most defective, and that means 
should be taken to check intemperance. If yellow fever occurs, the measures 
should be the same as in the West Indies. 

* Army Medical Report, vol. v. p. 290. 



CANADA. 549 



SECTION IV. 
AMERICAN STATIONS. 

SUB-SECTION I. CANADA.* 

Usual garrison, from 3000 in profound peace, to 10,000 or 12,000 in dis- 
turbed times. In 1862, it was 10,763 ; in 1863, it was 10,764. 

LOWER CANADA. 
Chief Stations. 1. Quebec. 

Temperature. Mean of year, 41; hottest month (July), 71'3; coldest 
(January), 11. Annual fluctuation, 60-3. 

The undulations of temperature are enormous. In the winter, sometimes, 
there is a range of 30, 40, and even more degrees in 24 hours, from the alter- 
nation of northerly and southerly winds. In one case the thermometer fell 
70 in 12 hours. The mercury is sometimes frozen. 

The mean temperature of the three summer months is 69 ; winter months, 
12 0< 8. The climate is " extreme" and variable. 

Rain. About 36 to 40 inches. The air is dry in the summer, and again in 
the depth of winter. 

Barracks. Built on lower Silurian rocks. No ague is known, though the 
lower town is damp. 

Amount of cubic space small. Casemates in citadel very bad, damp, ill 
ventilated, ill lighted. 

2. Montreal. 

Temperature. Mean of year, 44'6 ; hottest month (July), 73*1 ; coldest 
(January), 14'5. Annual fluctuation, 58'6. The undulations are very great, 
though not so great as at Quebec. 

Mean of the three summer months, 70 - 8 ; of the three winter months, 1 7. 2. 

Rain. 36 inches to 44 inches. 

Barracks. Bad ; very much over-crowded. 

In Lower Canada are also many smaller stations. 

UPPER CANADA. 
Chief Stations. 1. Toronto 

Temperature. Mean of year, 44'3 ; hottest month (July), 66 -8 ; coldest 
(February), 23'l. Difference, 43'7. Great undulations. 

12am. 31*5 inches. 

The town stands on ground originally marshy. The new barracks are built 
on limestone rocks of Silurian age. Average cubic space, only 350. Drain- 
age bad. 

Intermittent fevers among the civil population ; not very prevalent among 
the troops. 

2. Kingston* 

Temperature. Mean of year, 45'8. 
Malarious. 

London, Hamilton, and several smaller stations Fort George, Amherst- 
berg, &c. are also occupied. 

* For an excellent account of the Canadian stations, see Dr Muir's Report on the Army 
Medical Report for 1862, p. 375. 



FOREIGN SERVICE. 



Diseases of the Civil Inhabitants. 

Formerly ague was prevalent in Upper Canada, especially in Kingston ; it 
is now much less. At Montreal ague used to be seen ; now is much less 
frequent. It prevails from May to October, and is worst in August. 

If the isothere (summer temperature) of 65 be the northern limit of malaria, 
both Quebec and Montreal are within the limit ; yet the winter is too severe, 
and the period of hot weather too short, to cause much development of 
malaria. 

The climate is in both provinces very healthy, and has been so from the 
earliest records, though, when the country was first settled, there was much 
scurvy. 

Typhoid is sometimes seen. Typhus has been often carried in emigrant 
ships, but has not spread, or at least has soon died out. Cholera has pre- 
vailed. Yellow fever dies out. Consumption is decidedly infrequent. 

Acute pulmonary diseases used to be considered the prevalent complaints, 
but it is doubtful whether they are much more common than elsewhere. 

Diseases of the Troops. 

Years 1817-36 (20 years) Admissions per 1000 of strength = 1097 ; 
deaths, 16'1. 

Admissions and deaths per 1000 per annum of the 1097 admissions 
and 16'1 deaths. 

Admissions. Deaths. 

Fevers, intermittent and " common, con- ) 01 4 9 .4 

tinued," . . . . J 

Diseases of lungs, . . . 148 6 '7 

Diseases of stomach and bowels, . 155 1*3 

Venereal diseases, . . . . 99 

"Abscesses, . . . . . 109 

Wounds and injuries, . . . 162 

Punished, ..... 32 

Diseases of the eyes, . . . . 45 

Years 1837-46 (10 years). Yearly admissions per 1000 of strength, 982 ; 
average daily sick per 1000 of strength, 39 '1 ; mortality (violent deaths ex- 
cluded), 13 ; mortality with violent deaths, 17'42. 

The mortality (17*42) was made up in part of fever, 2'13; lung disease, 
7'44; stomach and bowels disease, I'll; brain disease, 1'28. Nearly two- 
thirds of the fevers are returned as " common continued," probably typhoid. 

Venereal admissions, 117 per 1000. 

Erysipelas was epidemic at Quebec, Montreal, and Toronto in 1841 ; at 
Montreal in 1842, from bad sanitary conditions. 

The number of days' service lost per man in 1859-62 was only 10, or little 
more than half the amount on home service. It will be observed (See Table 
p. 551) that there is a greater discrepancy between the admissions (which 
are few) and the mortality in Canada than in almost any station. This arises 
from the violent deaths having been large in 1861 and 1862, a good many 
men being drowned in the latter year, and from the fatal diseases phthisis 
and continued fever causing a small number of admissions. 

If these two diseases could be prevented, Canada would be in all respects 
remarkably healthy. It is to be observed, however, that erysipelas sometimes 



CANADA. 



551 



prevails, an indication (like the " continued fever ") of a bad sanitary condi- 
tion. 

Years 1859-63. 





Loss of Strength per 1000. 


Loss of Service per 1000. 




Deaths, 
(all causes). 


Invaliding. 


Admissions. 


Mean daily 
sick. 


Days in Hospi- 
tal to each sick 
man. 


1859, 


10-42 


7-91 


545 


28-27 


18-93 


1860, 


10-33 


14-7 


539 


30-08 


20-36 


1861, 


9-42 


13-68 


597 


27-12 


16-59 


1862, 


8-36 


14-21* 


667 


28-06 


15-36 


1863, 


9-57 


14-40* 


680 


31-49 


16-91 



Causes of Mortality. 
In 100 deaths, the percentage of the different causes was as follows 





In 100 Deaths. 


Causes of Death in order of Fatality. 


1859. 


1860. 


1861. 


1862.| 


1863. 


Violent deaths, .... 


11-11 


13-64 


36-36 


29-10 


24-0 


Phthisis, ..... 


18-51 


22-73 


9-10 


10-13 


14-58 


Brain diseases (including deli- ) 
rium tremens), / 


14-81 


9-10 


15-15 


12-65 


15-62 


" Continued fever," 


14-81 




6-06 


7-59 


6-25 


Pneumonia, .... 


11-11 


13 : 64 


6-06 


6-35 


7-29 


Bronchitis, . . . 


14-81 


4-54 


3-03 


3-80 


1-04 


Diseases of organs of circulation, 




18-19 


6-06 


6-35 


13-53 


Diseases of digestive sytem, 


... 


4-54 


3-03 


6-35 


4-17 


Drunkenness, .... 


3-71 


4-54 


3-03 


1-26 


2-08 


Suicides, ..... 






3-03 


3-80 


3-12 


Pleurisy and Empyema, 






3-03 


2-53 


2-08 


Erysipelas, .... 


3-71 




... 


1-26 


2-08 


Eheumatism, .... 


3-71 






1-26 




Remittent fever, 






... 


2-53 




Laryngitis, 








1.26 




Asthma, ..... 






3-03 




... 


Anthrax, ..... 




4 : 54 


... 






Scarlet fever, .... 




4-54 








Diphtheria, .... 








1-26 




Diabetes, 






3-03 






Stricture of urethra, . 






... 


1-26 




Integumentary abscess, 








1-26 




Kidney disease, 










3-12 


Dysentery (acute), 










1-04 














100-00 


100-00 


100-00 


100-00 


100-00 



* These numbers are taken from the tables in Dr Balfour's Report, and include both those 
sent home for discharge and for change of air. 
f One execution not included. 



552 



FOREIGN SERVICE. 



This table shows that this plan of reckoning the percentage of any cause 
of death, although useful as a guide, must not be pushed too far. The per- 
centage of phthisis, for example, contrasts very favourably in this table, for 
the years 1861 and 1862, especially, with similar tables on home service, but 
this arises in part from the immense preponderance of violent deaths in 
Canada in those years, which reduces the proportionate number of deaths* 
from phthisis. Still the returns as regards phthisis are very favourable. 
Calculated on the strength, the deaths from tubercular diseases and haemop- 
tysis in 1859-1861 (inclusive), and in 1862, were in Canada itself 1*54 and 
1-3 per 1000 of strength. There were, however, in the last-named year, 19 
tubercular patients sent home for discharge, and 1 7 for change of air ; add- 
ing these together it gives us for 1862 : 

Mortality per 1000 of strength Tubercular diseases, . 1-3 

Invaliding per 1000 of strength, . 3'33 

Total, . 4-63 

If the tables for home service (p. 511) are looked at, it will be seen that 
Canada is thus much better as regards phthisis than home service. This may, 
in fact, arise from phthisical men being kept at the depots ; it is a matter, 
however, which is well worthy of perfect inquiry. 

With regard to pneumonia and bronchitis, the following table gives the 
results for five years : 

Mortality per 1000 of Strength * 





Canada. 


England. 


YEARS. 


Pneumonia. 


Acute 
Bronchitis. 


Pneumonia. 


Acute 
Bronchitis. 


1859, 


1-070 


719 


527 


350 


1860, 


1-400 


469 


736 


338 


1861, 


570 


285 


552 


306 


1862, 


464 


278 


447 


276 


1863, 


650 


092 


423 


240 


Mean, 


831 


368 


537 


302 



It is therefore by no means certain that in the cold climate of Canada 
soldiers have much greater mortality from pneumonia and acute bronchitis 
than at home ; in fact, it seems probable that there is no very great difference, 
though we must remember that the period of observation is yet but limited. 
The latest observations in Eussia also seem to make it very doubtful if pneu- 
monia be, as usually supposed, a more common disease in cold than temperate 
climates. Exposure without protection to the cold winter winds does, how- 
ever, seem to induce a rapid and fatal congestion of the lungs. 

The great healthiness of Canada in part probably depends on the fact, that 
the extreme cold in winter lessens or prevents decomposition of animal matter 
and the giving off of effluvia ; hence, in spite of bad drainage and deficient 
water, there is no great amount of fever. In the hot summer, the life is an 
open air one. Even in winter the dry cold permits a good deal of exercise to 
be taken. 

The amount of drunkenness and delirium tremens in Canada used to be 



* Calculated on the numbers, given in the tables in the Appendix to Dr Balfour's Reports in 
the Army Medical Reports. 



NEWFOUNDLAND AND BRITISH COLUMBIA. 



553 



great, and is still so considerable as to show that something should be done to 
check it. In 1863, no less than 9 out of 96 deaths, or nearly j^th, we re caused 
by delirium tremens. 

SUB-SECTION II. NOVA SCOTIA AND NEW BRUNSWICK. 

Strength of garrison, 1500 to 4000 men. 

The state of health at these stations is almost identical with that of Canada, 
and it is hardly necessary to do more than cite the figures of the earlier and 
later years. 

Per 1000 of Strength. 



YEARS. 


Admissions. 


Mortality. 


Number 
constantly 
Si^k 


Days in 
Hospital to 
each Sick 


Without 


With 






Violent 


Violent 




man. 






Deaths. 


Deaths. 






1837-1856, . 


836 


15-1 


15-3 


34-8 




1859, . 


558 


7-23 




22-39 


14-65 


1860, . 


590 


3-35 


5-17 


30-10 


18-62 


1861, . 


586-7 


6-95 


7-53 


24-34 


15-15 


1862,* . 


586-0 


7-77 


8-63 


26-74 


16-66 


1863, . 


561 


5-15 


8-06 


24-87 


16-19 



Taking the year 1862, the average .loss of service to each soldier was 8 -89 
days; in 1863, almost the same. 

The remarks already made in respect of Canada apply to Nova Scotia. 
Continued fever (typhoid) causes some mortality every year, and should be 
prevented. Drunkenness and delirium tremens are less common than they 
were, but still prevail too much. 

SUB-SECTION III. NEWFOUNDLAND. 

Garrison about 200 to 300. 

Newfoundland has had the reputation of being extremely healthy ever since 
it has been garrisoned, or even frequented by sailing ships (Lind). Among 
the troops, the Colonial Battalion (now disbanded) has had remarkable health, 
and if drunkenness had been avoided, it would have been almost unexampled. 

In 1837-56 (twenty years) the average yearly admissions per 1000 were 
689, and the deaths 11. 

In 1859-62 the admissions were 980, and the deaths 672 per 1000, or much 
below the home standard in men of the soldier's age. At present Newfound- 
land is garrisoned by the Canadian Bines, who are younger men than the men 
of the old colonial corps (the Royal Newfoundland Companies). 

In 1863 there was only 1 death out of 318 men, or at the rate of 3-15 per 
1000 of strength. 

The causes of sickness and mortality are the same as those in Canada. 

SUB-SECTION IV. BRITISH COLUMBIA. 

Garrison, 100 to 150 men. 

New Westminster is to be the capital. Lat. 49 12' ; long. 122 49'. 

Soil. Gravel, sand, and clay. 

* Of the permanent force ; not of troops en route. 



554 FOKEIGN SERVICE. 

Climate. The temperature of the hottest month, August, mean 69 '4 ; 
coldest month, January, mean 35 l- 7 ; mean yearly range, 33*7.* 

Eain, 56-42 inches, on 152 days. Relative humidity, 9O8 in December; in 
June 65 per cent, of saturation. 

Strength, 142 ; admissions into hospital, 115, of which 25 were from 
influenza, 6 from rheumatism acute and chronic. Deaths 5 ; of which 4 
were from accidents, and 1 from " encephalitis." 

In 1861, in a force of 130, there were 97 admissions (22 catarrh (like, but 
not true influenza), 22 venereal, and 24 injuries), and one man frozen to death. 

In 1862, in a strength of 160, there were 90 admissions (28 accidents, 24 
sore throat, 19 diarrhoea, and 8 gonorrhoea), and one death from dropsy in an 
intemperate man. 

In 1863 the deaths from disease were only 3 '04 per 1000 of strength. 

No measles, scarlatina, hooping-cough, or other zymotic diseases have yet 
been seen in the colony among the children. 

It is probable, then, this colony will be found to be, like Canada, a very 
healthy one ; in fact, out of the malarious range, America seems remarkably 
healthy. 

SECTION Y. 
AFRICAN STATIONS. 

SUB-SECTION I. ST HELENA. 

Garrison, 500 to 700. 

Until very lately this small island has been garrisoned by a local corps (St 
Helena Regiment). This system is now altered, and a West India Regiment 
now serves in the island for three or four years. 

The island has always been healthy ; seated in the trade-winds, there is a 
tolerably constant breeze from south-east. There is very little malarious dis- 
ease (about 50 to 60 admissions per 1000 of strength), but there has frequently 
been a good many cases of " continued fever," and dysentery and diarrhoea 
are usual diseases. Formerly there appears to have been much phthisis, but 
this is now much less, giving another instance of the real or apparent decline 
of this disease as in so many stations. 

In the years 1837-46, the admissions from tubercular diseases averaged 21 
per 1000 per annum, and the deaths 5 -45. In 1859 the admissions were only 
6 '45, and there were no deaths. In 1860 there were 6*5 admissions, 4'34 
deaths per 1000 from tuberculosis. In 1862 there were no admissions, but 
2 -8 7 deaths per 1000 from tuberculosis in men out of hospital. In the years 
1859-62 the admissions from all causes were 880, and the deaths 11-28, or 
without violent deaths, 9-11 per 1000. In 1863 there were 822 total 
admissions, and 8 deaths per 1000 of strength. The health of the troops 
would have been even better if the causes of the continued fever and 
dysentery could have been discovered and removed, and if the amount of 
drunkenness had been less. 

SUB-SECTION II. WEST COAST OF ApRiCA.t 

The principal stations are Sierra Leone, Gambia, Cape-Coast Castle, and 
Lagos (500 miles from Cape-Coast Castle, occupied first in 1861). 

* From Dr Seddall's paper in the Army Medical Report for 1859. 

f For a very good account of the topography of the Gold Coast, see Dr R. Clarke's paper in 
the "Transactions Epid. Society," vol. i. 



WEST COAST OF AFJJICA. 555 



Sierra Leone. 

Strength of garrison, 300 to 400 (black troops). Hot season from May to 
the middle of November ; Harmattan wind in December ; soil, red sandstone 
and clay, very ferruginous. There are extensive mangrove swamps to K 
and S. Water very pure. The spring in the barrack square contains only 
3 to 4 grains per gallon of solids. 

This station had formerly the reputation of the most unhealthy station of 
the army. Nor was this undeserved. 

From 1817 to 1837 (20 years), there were yearly among the troops 

Admissions, .... 2978 per 1000. 

Deaths, . . ... 483 

At the same time, about 17 per cent, of the whole white population died 
annually. 

The chief diseases were malarious fevers, which caused much sickness, but 
no great mortality ; and yellow fever, which caused an immense mortality. 
Dysentery, chiefly scorbutic, was also very fatal. 

The causes of this great mortality were simple enough. The station was 
looked upon as a place for punishment, and disorderly men, men sentenced 
for crimes, or whom it was wished to get rid of, were draughted to Sierra 
Leone. They were there very much over-crowded in barracks, which were 
placed in the lower part of the town. They were fed largely on salt meat ; 
and being for the most part men of desperate character, and without hope, 
they were highly intemperate, and led, in all ways, lives of the utmost disorder. 
They considered themselves, in fact, under sentence of death, and did their 
best to rapidly carry out the sentence. 

Eventually, all the white troops were removed, and the place has since 
been garrisoned by one of the West Indian regiments. Of late years, the 
total white population of Sierra Leone (civil and military) has not been more 
than from 100 to 200 persons. 

The great sickness and mortality being attributable, as in so many other 
cases, chiefly to local causes and individual faults, of late years Europeans 
have been comparatively healthy ; although from time to time fatal epidemics 
of yellow fever occur. They are, however, less frequent and less fatal than 
formerly. The position of the barracks has been altered, and the food is 
much better. One measure which is supposed to have improved the health 
of the place, is allowing a species of grass (Bahama grass) to grow in the 
streets. The occupiers of the adjacent houses are obliged to keep it cut short, 
and in good order. 

Among the black troops, the returns of the four years 1859-1862 gave 
740 admissions and 2 9 -5 3 deaths (or 27*42, exclusive of violent deaths) per 
1000. Among the causes of death, tubercular diseases hold the first place, 
amounting to 7*74 per 1000 of strength, or to 2 7 '2 per cent of the total deaths 
from disease. In 1862, phthisis amounted to no less than 12 '6 per 1000 of 
strength, and constituted 43 '7 per cent, of all deaths from disease. There were 
also 9 '46 per 1000 of strength deaths from pneumonia. In 1863, the deaths 
from phthisis were 9 '3 per 1000 of strength, and made up 36 '3 per cent, of 
the total deaths. It seems clear, indeed, that in all the stations of the West 
India corps (black troops), the amount of phthisis is great ; in fact, the state 
of health generally of these regiments requires looking into, as in the West 
Indies. 

In 1862, there were only five cases of intermittent, and eighteen of re- 
mittent fever among 317 negroes. 



556 



FOREIGN SERVICE. 



In 1861, some of the troops from. Sierra Leone and the Gambia were em- 
ployed up the Gambia against the Mandingoes, and also against the chiefs of 
Quiat. In 1863 and 1864 the Ashanti war prevailed. All these wars added 
to the sickness and mortality, so that these years are not fair examples of the 
influence of the climate. In 1863, there were 1125'6 admissions, and 25*59 
deaths per 1000 of strength. 

Gambia. 

Garrison, about 200 to 400 (black troops). This station is much more 
malarious than any of the others. The drinking-water is bad ; all barrack 
and sewage arrangements imperfect. Yellow fever from time to time is very 
destructive. In 1859, two out of four European sergeants, and in 1860, 
three medical officers, died of yellow fever. 

As at Sierra Leone, phthisis and other diseases of the lungs cause a large 
mortality. In 1861, phthisis gave five deaths out of a strength of 431, or at 
the rate of 11 '6 per- 1000 of strength; and pneumonia gave four deaths, and 
acute bronchitis three, or (together) at the rate of 16-24 per 1000 of strength. 
Phthisis, pneumonia, and bronchitis gave nearly 60 per cent, of all deaths 
from disease. This was higher than in previous years; but in 1862, phthisis 
gave 14-35 deaths per 1000 of strength, and constituted 75 per cent, of the 
whole number of deaths ! There was, however, no pneumonia or bronchitis 
in that year. In 1863, however, there were no deaths from phthisis. Although 
the period of observation is short, it can hardly be doubted that here, as 
elsewhere in the stations occupied by the West Indian regiments, some 
causes influencing the lungs prejudicially are everywhere in action. It is 
probably to be found in bad ventilation of the barracks. 

Among the few white residents at the Gambia, diarrhrea, dysentery, and 
dyspepsia appear to be common. These, in part, arise from the bad water ; 
in part from dietetic errors (especially excess in quantity), and want of exer- 
cise and attention to ordinary hygienic rules. 

Cape-Coast Castle (Gold Coast). 

Garrison, 300 to 400 (black troops). 

This station has always been considered the most healthy of the three 
principal places. It is not so malarious as even Sierra Leone, and much less 
so than the Gambia, and has been much less frequently attacked with yellow 
fever. Dysentery and dyspepsia are common diseases among the white resi- 
dents. Among the black troops the prevalence of phthisis, pneumonia, and 
bronchitis is marked, though less so, perhaps, than at the other two stations. 

One peculiarity of the station is the prevalence of dracunculus. This is 
uncommon on Sierra Leone, and at the Gambia. It is, on the other hand, 
very frequent at Cape-Coast Castle. 

Admissions from Guinea-Worm, per 1000 of Strength. 



GARRISONS. 


1860. 


1861. 


1862. 


1863. 


Sierra Leone, . 
Gambia, . 
Cape-Coast Castle, . 
Lagos, 


2-6 
246 


285 


115 

38 


11-62 
12-8 



The investigation of the cause of dracunculus at Cape-Coast Castle is one 
which would well repay the trouble, so abundant is the material of observa- 



CAPE OF GOOD HOPE. 



557 



tion ; it would probably clear up the still doubtful points on the mode of 
ingress. * 

The following table shows the mean admissions and discharges for four 
years, 1859-62 : 

Black Troops. 



GARRISONS. 


Admissions 
per 1000 
of Strength. 


Deaths per 1000. 


From Disease. 


Including Violent 
Deaths. 


Sierra Leone, 
Gambia, 
Cape-Coast Castle, 
Lagos (1862), 


740 
978 
624 

1885 


27-42 
31-43 
20-01 

28-57 


29-53 
33-74 
26-45 



Hygiene on the West Coast. 

There is no doubt that attention to hygienic rules will do much to lessen 
the sickness and mortality of this dreaded climate. In fact, here as else- 
where, men have been contented to lay their own misdeeds on the climate. 
Malaria has, of course, to be met by the constant use of quinine during the 
whole period of service. The other rules are summed up in the following 
quotation from Dr Robert Clarke's paper ;t and when we reflect that this ex- 
tract expresses the opinion of a most competent judge on the effect of climate, 
we must allow that, not only for the West Coast, but for the West Indies, 
and for India, Dr Clarke's opinions on the exaggeration of the effect of the 
sun's rays and exposure to night air, and his statement of the necessity of 
exercise, are full of instruction : 

" Good health may generally be enjoyed by judicious attention to a few 
simple rules. In the foremost rank should be put temperance, with regular 
and industrious habits. European residents on the Gold Coast are too often 
satisfied with wearing apparel suited to the climate, overlooking the fact that 
exercise in the open air is just as necessary to preserve health there as it is in 
Europe. Many of them likewise entertain an impression that the sun's rays 
are hurtful, whereas in nine cases out of ten the mischief is done, not by the 
sun's rays, but by habits of personal economy. Feeling sadly the wearisome 
sameness of life on this part of the coast, recourse is too frequently had to 
stimulants, instead of resorting to inexhausting employments, the only safe 
and effectual remedy against an evil fraught with such lamentable conse- 
quences. Europeans also bestow too little attention on ventilation, far more 
harm being done by close and impure air during the night than is ever 
brought about by exposure to the night air. 

" Much of the suffering is occasioned by over-feeding." (P. 124.) 

SUB-SECTION III. CAPE OF GOOD HOPE. 

Garrison, 4000 to 6000 men, chiefly Europeans. 

The chief stations are Cape Town, Grahams Town, King William Town ; 
Port Elizabeth, Algoa Bay, and several small frontier stations. At Natal 
there is also a small force. The climate is almost everywhere good ; the 
temperature is not extreme nor very variable ; the movement of air is consi- 
derable. 

* For anybody interested in the investigation of the anatomy of the dracunculus, Dr Bastian's 
paper in the Linnean Transactions (1863) can be recommended, 
f Trans, of the Epidem. Soc. vol. i. pp. 123, 124. 



558 FOREIGN SERVICE. 

At Cape Town the mean annual temperature is 67, with a mean annual 
range of about 38. 

Loss of strength yearly per 1000. Loss of service yearly per 1000. Number of days 
Deaths, all kinds. Invaliding. Admissions. Mean daily Sick. to each Sick man. 

1859-61, 11-28 15 876-2 46-72 19-89 

1862, 9-73 16-2 864 44-7 18-88 

1863, 11-14 17-58 841 45-84 19-89 

Malarious diseases are very uncommon. " Continued fevers" (probably 
typhoid) are seen and are rather common, though not very fatal. In 1859-61 
they gave a mortality of 1 '2 per 1000, and in 1862 of 1 -1 1 per 1000 of strength. 
In the earlier periods dysentery and diarrhoea were very common ; they are 
now less so ; in many cases, especially in the small frontier stations, they 
were clearly owing to bad water. 

Ophthalmia has prevailed rather largely, especially in some years ; there 
is a good deal of dust in many parts of the colony, and it has been attributed 
to this ; the disease is probably the specific ophthalmia (grey granulations), 
and is propagated by contagion. Whether it had its origin in any catarrhal 
condition produced by the wind and dust, and then became contagious, is one 
of those moot points which cannot yet be answered (see page 467).* 

The Cape has always been noted for the numerous cases of rheumatism and 
cardiac disease, and a good monograph on this subject is much wanted. The 
prevalence of this affection has been attributed to the exposure and rapid 
marches in hill districts during the Kaffir wars. In 1863 there was, however, 
less rheumatism than usual. 

Taking the years 1859-62, as expressing tolerably fairly the effect, per se, 
of the climate, we find that the whole colony gave twenty-two admissions and 
1-58 deaths per 1000 of strength from diseases of the circulation. This is 
certainly somewhat greater than at any other station during these years, as 
will be seen from the following table : 

Diseases of the Circulatory Organs.\ 

Admissions per 1000 Deaths per 1000 

of strength. of strength. 

Home, 9 -73 

Gibraltar, 6 -64 

Malta, 5 -51 

Canada, 3 -73 

Windward and Leeward Command, 4 -81 

Jamaica, 6 -78 

Mauritius, . . . . .11 . . -56 

Ceylon, ' 17 .. '83 

Australia and Tasmania, . .13 . . 2-34 

New Zealand, 7 -98 

Bengal Presidency, . . .10 . . '62 

Madras Presidency, . . .15 . . 1'27 

Bombay Presidency . . .12 . . -53 

It seems therefore probable that there is an excess of cardiac cases at the Cape, 
especially as we find that the number invalided for such affections is large. 
(Statistical Report for 1862, p. 94.) 

Scurvy has prevailed a good deal at the Cape, especially in some of the 

* Dr Lawson has published a memoir on this subject (Army Medical Report, vol. v. p. 338), 
to which reference may be made. 

t Copied from a paper of Dr Balfour. 



MAUKITIUS. 559 

Kaffir wars. Venereal diseases are common, and in some years have given 
admissions equal to 250 per 1000 of strength; the average is about* 190 per 
1000. The Cape has always been considered a kind of sanitarium for India. 
Its coolness and the rapid movement of the air the brightness and clearness 
of the atmosphere, and the freedom from malaria, probably cause its salubrity. 
It has been supposed that it might be well to send troops to the Cape for two 
or three years before sending them on to India. This plan has, I believe, 
never been perfectly tried, but in the case of regiments sent on hurriedly to 
India on emergency, it has been said that the men did not bear the Indian 
climate well. Probably they were placed under unfavourable conditions, and 
the question is still uncertain. 

As a convalescent place for troops who have been quartered in a malarious 
district it is excellent.* 

SECTION VI. 
MAUKITIUS. 

Garrison, about 1500 to 2000 men. 

Mauritius in the eastern, has been often compared with Jamaica in the western 
seas. The geographical position as respects the equator is not very dissimilar ; 
the mean annual temperature (80 Fahr.) is almost the same; the fluctuations 
and undulations are more considerable, but still are not excessive; the 
humidity of air is nearly the same, or perhaps a little less ; the rain-fall (66 
to 76 inches) is almost the same ; and the geological formation is really not 
very dissimilar. Yet, with all these points of similarity in climatic conditions, 
the diseases are very different. 

Malarious fever is not nearly so frequent as in Jamaica, and yellow fever is 
quite unknown ; Mauritius, therefore, has never shown those epochs of great 
mortality which the West Indies have had. Hepatic diseases, on the other 
hand, which are so uncommon in the West Indies, are very common in the 
Mauritius. For example, in 1859 there were 47 cases of acute and chronic 
hepatitis in 1254 men, while in Jamaica there was 1 case out of 807 men. 
In 1860 there were 31 admissions from acute hepatitis out of 1886 men; in 
Jamaica, there was not a single case. In 1862 there were 12 cases of acute, 
1 1 of chronic hepatitis, and 72 cases of hepatic congestion out of 2049 men ; 
in Jamaica, in the same year^ there was only 1 case of acute hepatitis out of 
702 men. This has always been marked ; is it owing to an error in diagnosis, 
or to differences in diet 1 It can scarcely be attributed to any difference in 
climate. In 1863 the difference was less marked, but was still evident. 

In the Mauritius, as in Jamaica, a " continued fever" is not uncommon ; 
this is now being returned in part as typhoid. It has occasionally been 
imported. Dysentery and diarrhoea have largely prevailed, but are now 
becoming less frequent, though still in too great amount. In this respect 
Jamaica now contrasts very favourably with the Mauritius ; thus, in 1860, there 
were altogether 213 admissions per 1000 of dysentery and diarrhoea, and 6*8 
deaths per 1000 ; in Jamaica, in the same year, there was not a single admis- 
sion from dysentery, and only 19 from diarrhoea among 594 men, and no 
death. Cholera has prevailed five times (first in 1819 ; not afterwards till 
1854 ; then again in 1856, 1859, and 1861. It appears to have been imported 
in all these cases). Formerly there was a large mortality from lung diseases ; 
now, as in Jamaica, this entry is much less, not more than half that of former 
days. The deaths from phthisis per 1000 of strength were, in 1860, '521 ; 

* See effect on the 59th Regiment in the Army Medical Report for 1859, p. 99. 



560 



FOREIGN SERVICE. 



in 1861, 1-03; in 1862, 1-94 (but in this year 11 men were invalided for 
phthisis) ; and in 1863, 2. Venereal (enthetic) diseases give about 100 to 
120 admissions per 1000 of strength. Ophthalmia prevails moderately; to 
nothing like the same extent as at the Cape. 

In the earlier periods, owing to the absence of yellow fever, the mortality 
of the Mauritius contrasted favourably with that of Jamaica, but now it is 
rather greater. 

Per IOW of Strength. 





Loss of Strength. 


Loss of Service. 


YEARS. 


Mortality 
(all Causes). 


Invaliding. 


Admissions. 


Mean Daily 
Sick. 


Days in Hos- 
pital to each 
Sick Man. 


1817-36, 


30-5 




1249 


68 


20 


1837-56, 


24 


... 


909 






1859, 


16 


... 


1237 


48-76 


14-39 


1860, 


23-86 


11-13 


1119 


44-83 


14-62 


1861, 


11-97 


4-2 


608 


25-51 


15-31 


1862, 


43-92 


19-5 


822 


31-72 


14-77 


1863, 


13-10 


18-71 


651 


36-40 


20-40 



The large mortality in 1862 was owing to epidemic cholera, and partly to 
the arrival of troops who had served in China, and were in bad health. 

Fot the means to be adopted for lessening the amount of " continued fever," 
dysentery, diarrhoea, and hepatitis, see chapter on the prevention of these 
diseases (p. 458.) 

SECTION VII. 
CEYLON* 

Garrison, 800 to 900 white troops, 1200 to 1500 black troops. Popula- 
tion, 1,800,000, including nearly 5000 Europeans. The stations for the white 
troops are chiefly Galle, Colombo, Kandy, and Trincomalee, with a conva- 
lescent station at Newera Ellia (6200 feet above sea-level). The black troops 
are more scattered, at Badulla, Pultan, Jaffna, &c. 

Geology. A considerable part of the island is composed of granite, gneiss, 
and hornblende granite rocks ; these have become greatly weathered and 
decomposed, and form masses of a conglomerate called " cabook," which is 
clayey like the laterite of India, and is used for building. The soil is derived 
from the debris of the granite, is said to absorb and retain water eagerly. In 
some parts, as at Kandy, there is crystalline limestone. 

. Climate. This differs of course exceedingly at different elevations. At 
Colombo, sea-level, the climate is warm, equable, and limited. Mean annual 
temperature about 81. Mean temperature April, 82-70 ; January, 78- 19 ; 
amplitude of the yearly fluctuation = 4 -51. April and May are the hottest 
months; January and December the coldest. Amount of rain about 74 
inches ; the greatest amount falls in May with the S.W. monsoon (about 13 
to 14 inches) ; and again in October and November with the N.E. monsoon 
(about 10 to 12 inches) in each month. Kain, however, falls in every month, 
the smallest amount being in February and March. The heaviest yearly fall 
ever noted was 120 inches. The humidity is very great, about the same as 

* For a full account, see Sir E. Tennaiit's Ceylon. 



CEYLON. 561 

at Jamaica. The S.W. monsoon blows from May to September, and the N.E. 
monsoon during the remainder of the year, being unsteady and rather" diverted 
from its course (long-shore wind) in February and March. 

At Kandy (72 miles from Colombo, 1676 feet above sea-level), the mean 
temperature is less, 3 to 5 ; the air is still absolutely humid, though relatively 
rather dry. At 9.30 A.M. the mean annual dew-point is 70 -4, and at 3.30 it 
is 71'54. This corresponds to 8 '11 and 8 "42 grains in a cubic foot of air ; as 
the mean temperature at these times is 7 6 -3 7 and 7 9 "2 7, the mean annual 
relative humidity of the air at 9.30 A.M. and 3.30 P.M. is 71 and 63 per cent, 
of saturation (see tables, pp. 407 and 410). The heat is oppressive, as Kandy 
lies in a hollow, as in the bottom of a cup. 

At Newera Ellia (48 miles from Kandy, and 6210 feet high) is a large table- 
land, where, since 1828, some Europeans have been stationed ; the climate is 
European, and at times wintry ; the thermometer has been as low as 29, 
and white frosts may occur in the early morning in the coldest months. The 
mean annual temperature is about 59.* 

In the dry season (January to May) the daily thermometer's range is ex- 
cessive ; the thermometer may stand at 29 at daybreak, and at 8 A.M. reaches 
62 ; at mid-day it will mark 70 to 74, and then fall to 50 at dark. In one 
day the range has been from 27 to 74 = 47. The air is very dry, the 
difference between the dry and wet bulbs being sometimes 15. Assuming 
the dry bulb to mark 70, this will give a relative humidity of only 38 per 
cent, of saturation; the barometer stands at about 24*25 inches. Although 
the range of temperature is thus so great, it is equable from day to day. 

Such a climate, with its bright sun and rarefied air, an almost constant 
breeze, and an immense evaporating force, seems to give us, at this period, the 
very beau ideal of a mountain climate. 

In the wet season (May or June to November) all these conditions are 
reversed. The mean thermometer of 24 hours is about 59, and the range is 
only from 56 at daybreak to 62 at midday, during the height of the mon- 
soon ; about 30 inches of rain-fall, and sometimes as much as 70 ; the air is 
often almost saturated. 

Two more striking climatic differences than between January and June can 
hardly be conceived, yet it is said Newera Ellia is equally healthy in the wet 
as in the dry season ; the human frame seems to accommodate itself to these 
great vicissitudes without difficulty. 

Although there is some moist and even marshy ground near the station, 
ague is very uncommon ; the temperature is too low in the dry season, and 
the fall of rain too great in the wet. It is said that dyspepsia, hepatic affec- 
tions, and nervous affections are much benefited ; phthisis to some extent, but, 
it would appear, scarcely so much as our European experience would have led 
us to expect ; rheumatism does not do well, nor, it is said, chronic dysentery ; 
but it would be very desirable to test this point, as well as that of the influence 
on phthisis carefully. The so-called " hill diarrhoea" of India is unknown. 

The neighbouring Horton Hills are said to be even better than ISTewera 
Ellia itself. Probably, in the whole of Hindustan, a better sanitary station 
does not exist. It is inferior, if it be inferior, only to the Neilgherries, and 
one or two of the best Himalayan stations. 

Diseases of the Native Population. 

In some parts of the island, especially at Trincomalee, there is much 
malarious disease, and hepatic and splenic engorgements are common ; dysen- 

* I have taken many of these facts from an excellent Report by Assistant-Surgeon R. A. 
Allan, which I had the advantage of reading, as well as from Sir E. Tennant's hook. 

2 N 



562 



FOREIGN SERVICE. 



tery, diarrhoea, rheumatism, and skin diseases are all common. At Colombo, 
smallpox, cholera, and continued fevers are frequent. The sanitary condition 
of Colombo is bad ; the native town is badly drained ; there are many cess- 
pools, and wells close to them. 

Elephantiasis and leprosy are common in some parts, scarcely seen in 
other (Trincomalee). At Trincomalee, Dr Kelaart states that scrofula is very 
common, and is attributed by the natives to syphilis introduced by the Por- 
tuguese, and kept up by intermarriage. 

In the district of Kandy the population would seem to be healthier ; in 
1859 the deaths were 20'27 per 1000 living, and the births 24'93* If this 
be true for all years, it contrasts favourably even with England. 

Diseases of the Troops. 

In Ceylon, as in so many other stations, we find that the amount of sick- 
ness and mortality has greatly declined of late years. In the earlier periods 
it was very great. Destructive fevers (malarious 1 typhoid ? bilious remittent ?) 
of uncertain nature prevailed, and in some years, as in 1817, were very fatal. 
Liver diseases (often attended with abscess) have always been much more com- 
mon at Colombo and Trincomalee than at Kingston or Port-Royal in Jamaica, 
with the same high annual temperature and the same equability of climate. 

Dysentery and diarrhoea have also always been frequent, and are still so. 
In fact, the diseases of troops are very similar to those of Hindustan, except 
that, on the whole, there has been less fatality. 

Per 1000 of Strength (White Troops). 





Loss of Strength. 


Loss of Service. 


YEARS. 


Deaths 

(all Causes). 


Invaliding.! 


Admissions. 


Mean daily 
Sick. 


Days in 
Hospital to 
each sick man. 


1817-36, 


69-8 


... 


1678 






1837-56, 


38-6 


... 


1407 






1859, 


35-05 




1693 


79-31 


15-12 


1860, 


19-65 


... 


1671 


70-14 


17-32 


1861, 


19-85 


12-1 


1440 


66-15 


16-77 


1862, 


19-43 


33-2 


1233 


75-51 


22-35 


1863, 


29-41 


35-1 


1536 


72-40 


17-2 



If these numbers be compared with the west Indian or Canadian stations, 
the great amount of sickness and mortality in Ceylon is evident. The loss of 
service is very serious. Thus, to take the year 1862, the table shows that 
1000 men would have furnished 75*51 daily sick ; as the white troops actually 
present in Ceylon in 1862 numbered 874, the daily amount of sick was 66. 
Therefore there were for the whole force (66 x 365 = ) 24,090 days lost to the 
State, or each man lost 27 -5 6 days a very large amount. 

When the causes of this great sickness and mortality are looked into, they 
are found to be as follows. Paroxysmal fevers, dysentery, ophthalmia, enthetic 
diseases, acute and chronic hepatitis, acute and chronic bronchitis, drunken- 
ness, phlegmon, and ulcers, give the largest admissions. Cholera, dysentery, 
hepatitis, and phthisis, appear to be the chief causes of mortality. 

The diseases, in fact, are chiefly those of India. 

* MS. Report on Kandy, by Surgeon M'Gregor. 

| By the term invaliding is implied the troops actually discharged the service for ill health. 



INDIA. 563 

The deaths from phthisis in Ceylon in 1860, 1861, 1862, and 1863, were 
2-18, 2-2, 3-43, and 3-39 per 1000 of strength. There does not appear to 
have been much invaliding from this cause (none in 1860-1861), so that 
phthisis is apparently rather infrequent in Ceylon, though perhaps more com- 
mon than in the Mauritius. 

With regard to the lessening of this considerable amount of sickness, the 
measures necessary for India must be adopted in Ceylon. (See also chapter 
on PREVENTION OP DISEASE, p. 443.) 

Among the black troops in Ceylon, the admissions have averaged 1064, 
and the deaths 11-97, or without violent deaths, 10'97 per 1000 of strength. 
The chief causes of admissions are paroxysmal fevers, and of deaths, cholera, 
dysentery, and paroxysmal fevers. " Continued fever" also figures among the 
returns, but is less common of late years. The average number constantly 
sick is about 32, and the duration of the cases 10 or 11 days. 

In Ceylon, therefore, the black troops are healthier than the white, con- 
trasting in this remarkably with the West Indies. 

In. conclusion, it may be said that much sanitary work has evidently to be 
done in Ceylon before the state of the white troops can be considered at all 
satisfactory. 

SECTION VIII. 
INDIA.* 

More than 72,000 Europeans are now quartered in India, and there is in 
addition a large native army. In this place the Europeans will be chiefly 
referred to, as it would require a large work to consider properly the health of 
the native troops, t 

In the First Book various points connected with the health of Europeans 
in India have been discussed ; in this place I have merely to give a short 
outline of the conditions of service in that country, and of the amount of sick- 
ness and mortality. 

The 72,000 Europeans are thus distributed : About 46,000 are serving in 
the Bengal Presidency, which includes Bengal proper, the North- West Pro- 
vinces, the Punjab, and Trans-Indus stations. About 14,000 are serving in 
the Madras Presidency, which also garrisons some part of the coast of Burmah, 
and sends detachments of native troops to the Straits of Malacca. About 
12,000 are serving in the Bombay Presidency. The troops consist of all arms. 

* No medical officer should serve in India without carefully studying one of the best works 
ever published on hygiene, Dr Norman Chevers' essay on the "Means of Preserving the Health 
of Europeans in India," published in the Indian Annals. It is to be regretted that it has not 
been published as a separate work. The Introduction to Sir Ranald Martin's great work on 
"Tropical Diseases" contains most valuable sanitary rules. Dr Moore's " Health in the Tro- 
pics" is also a work all should read. I need not say that the Report of the Indian Sanitary 
Commission should be very carefully considered. The Government have just published in a 
small form the Report of the Indian Sanitary Commission, and an Abstract of all the Station 
Returns sent in to the Commission, with some of the evidence, and this will be a most valuable 
document for all officers serving in India. The present chapter may perhaps serve as a sort of 
introduction to this larger work. The Barrack Improvement Commissioners have also published 
a very useful work, entitled " Suggestions in Regard to Sanitary Works for Indian Stations." 

t The general principles of hygiene are of course to be applied in the case of the natives of 
Hindustan, and so far there is nothing unusual. In the chapter on FOOD I have purposely in- 
cluded the chief articles of diet ; the question of water and air is the same for all nations, and 
other hygienic rules of clothing or exercise can be easily applied to them. But their health is 
much influenced by their customs, which are in many races peculiar. The only proper way of 
treating such a subject would be by a work on the hygiene of India generally, including the 
native army as a branch of the community. 

| For brevity, it is customary to speak of serving in Bengal, Bombay, or Madras, when speak- 
ing of the Presidency, so that these names are sometimes applied to the cities, sometimes to the 
presidencies ; but a little care will always distinguish which is meant. 

2N2 



564 FOKEIGN SERVICE. 

These men are serving in a country which includes nearly 28 of lat. and 33 
of long., and in which the British possessions amount to 1,465,322 square miles. 
Stretching from within 8 of the equator to 15 beyond the line of the tropics, 
and embracing countries of every elevation, the climate of Hindustan presents 
almost every variety ; and the troops serving in it, and moving from place to 
place, are in turn exposed to remarkable differences of temperature, degrees of 
atmospheric humidity, pressure of air, and kind and force of wind, &c. 

Watered by great rivers which have brought down from the high lands 
vast deposits in the course of ages, a considerable portion of the surface of the 
extensive plains is formed by alluvial deposit, which, under the heat of the 
sun, renders vast districts more or less malarious ; and there are certain parts 
of the country where the development of malaria is probably as intense as in 
any part of the world. A population, in some places thickly clustered, iii 
others greatly scattered, formed of many races and speaking many tongues, 
and with remarkably diverse customs, inhabits the country, and indirectly 
affects very greatly the health of the Europeans. 

Cantoned over this country, the soldiers are also subjected to the special 
influences of their barrack life, and to the peculiar habits which tropical ser- 
vice produces. 

We can divide the causes which act on the European force into four "sub- 
sections : 

1. The country and climate. 

2. The diseases of the natives. 

3. The special hygienic conditions under which the soldier is placed. 

4. The service, and the individual habits of the soldier. 

SUB-SECTION I. THE COUNTRY AND CLIMATE. 

The geological structure and the meteorological conditions are, of course, 
extremely various, and it is impossible to do more than glance at a few 1 of the 
chief points. 

1. Soil.* There is almost every variety of geological structure. In the 
north-west, the vast chain of the Himalayas is composed of high peaks of 
granite and gneiss j while lower down is gneiss and slate, and then sandstone 
and diluvial detritus. Stretching from Cape Comorin almost to Guzerat, 
come the great Western Ghauts, formed chiefly of granite, with volcanic rocks 
around; and then stretching from these, come the Vindhya and Satpoora 
Mountains, which are chiefly volcanic, and inclose the two great basins of the 
Taptee and Nerbudda rivers. Joining on to the Vindhya, come the Aravalli 
Hills, stretching towards Delhi, and having at their highest point Mount 
Aboo, which is probably destined to become the great health resort of Central 
India. 

On the east side, the lower chain of the Eastern Ghauts slopes into the table- 
land of the Deccan ; and at the junction of the Eastern and Western Ghauts 
come the Neilgherry Hills, from 8000 to 9000 feet above sea-level, and formed 
of granite, syenite, hornblende, and gneiss. But to enumerate all the Indian 
mountains would be impossible. 

Speaking in very general terms, the soil of many of the plains may be 
classed under four great headings (Eorbes Watson). 

(a.) Alluvial soil, brought down by the great rivers Ganges, Indus, Brah- 
mapootra, rivers of Nerbudda, Guzerat, &c. It is supposed that about one- 
third of all Hindustan is composed of this alluvium, which is chiefly siliceous, 

* See Carter's " Summary of the Geology of India," in the "Journal of the Bombay Asiatic 
Society Transactions," 1853. 



INDIA. 565 

with some alumina and iron. At points it is very stiff with clay as in some 
parts of the Punjab, in Scinde, and in some portion of Lower Bengal. Under- 
neath the alluvial soil lies, in many places, the so-called clayey laterite (see 
page 277.) Many of the stations in Bengal are placed on alluvial soil. 

This alluvial soil, especially when, not far from the surface, clayey laterite 
is found, is often malarious ; sometimes it is moist only a foot or two from the 
surface ; and, if not covered by vegetation, is extremely hot. 

As a rule, troops should not be located on it. Whatever be done to the 
spot itself and much good may be done by efficient draining the influences 
of the surrounding country cannot be obviated. Europeans can never be en- 
tirely free from the influences of malaria. There is but one perfect remedy : 
to lessen the force in the plains to the smallest number consistent with 
military conditions, and to place the rest of the men on the higher lands. 

Somewhat different from the alluvial, is the soil of certain districts, such as 
the vast Eunn of Cutch, which have been the beds of inland seas, and now 
form immense level marshy tracks, which are extremely malarious. The Runn 
of Cutch contains 7000 square miles of such country. 

(b.) The so-called " regur," or " cotton soil," formed by disintegrated basalt 
and trap, stretches down from Bundelcund nearly to the south of the penin- 
sula, and spreads over the table-land of Mysore, and is common in the Deccan. 
It is often, but not always, dark in colour. It contains little vegetable organic 
matter (1*5 to 2 '5 per cent.), and is chiefly made up of sand (70 to 80 per 
cent.), carbonate of lime (10 to 20 per cent.), and a little alumina. It is very 
absorbent of water, and is generally thought unhealthy. It is not so malari- 
ous as the alluvium, but attacks of cholera have been supposed to bo 
particularly frequent over this soil. 

(c.) Red soil from disintegration of granite. This is sometimes loamy, at 
other times clayey, especially where felspar is abundant. The clay is often 
very stiff. 

(d.) Calcareous and other soils scattered over the surface, or lying beneath 
the alluvium or cotton soil. There are, in many parts of India, large masses 
of calcareous (carbonate of lime) conglomerate, which is called kunkur. It is 
much used in Bengal for footpaths and pavements. 

In Behar, and some other places, the soils contain large quantities of nitre, 
and various of the sand plains are largely impregnated with salts. 

2. Temperature. There is an immense variety of temperature. Towards 
the south, and on the sea-coast, the climate is often equable and uniform. 
The amplitudes of the annual and diurnal fluctuations are small, and in some 
places, especially those which lie somewhat out of the force of the south-west 
monsoon, the climate is perhaps the most equable in the world. 

At some stations on the southern coast, the temperature at the sun's zenith 
is lower than at the declination, in consequence of the occurrence of clouds 
and rain, brought up by the south-west monsoon. 

In the interior, on the plateaux of low elevation, the temperature is greater, 
and the yearly and diurnal fluctuations are more marked. On the hill stations 
(6000 to 8000 feet above sea-level), the mean temperature is much less ; the 
fluctuations are sometimes great, sometimes inconsiderable. 

The influence of winds is very great on the temperature ; the sea winds 
lowering it, hot land winds raising it greatly. 

The temperature of a few of the principal stations is subjoined, merely to 
give an idea of the amount of heat in different parts of the country.* Those 
of the hill stations are given under the proper headings. 

* These are taken from Mr Glaisher's very excellent report in the India Sanitary Commission, 
which must be consulted for fuller details of the greatest value. 



566 



FOREIGN SERVICE. 



Mean Temperature and Height, above Sea-level, of some of the larger Stations. 
Bengal Presidency. 







jg 


1* 


|. 




2, 


t| 


^-3 




"C > 


"- 1 > 


8,2 


<o & 


c^-i > 




1-2 


J2 


MONTHS. 


w-3 


<M c 


off 


00 "3 


1^ 


gg 


<3<2 


""1$ 




Calcutta. 
William, 
above set 


t? OJ 


O 05 

P 


1 * 


fl 


f! 


til 


Peshawui 
above t 


Mean of year, . . 


o 

82 


78 


80-4 


79 


77 


78 


73 




74 


January, . . . 


70 


66 


64 


66 


61 


59 


54 


52 


February, . . . 


75 


69 


70 


68 


65 


68 


60 


55 


March, .... 


83 


75 


72 


79 


70 


76 


68 


65 


April, .... 


88 


84 


89 


88 


83 


81 


77 


75 


May, .... 


89 


93 


97 


91 


90 


94 


86 


88 


June, .... 


87 


88 


91 


90 


92 


95 


89 


91 


July, .... 


85 


86 


87 


88 


88 


90 


87 


91 


August, .... 


85 


82 


87 


84 


84 


86 


86 


88 


September, . . 


85 


83 


85 


85 


82 


86 


83 


84 


October, . . . 


84 


79 


79 


79 


76 


79 


76 


73 


November, . . 


78 


70 


75 


70 


68 


68 


61 


64 


December, . . . 


72 


64 


68 


60 


62 


58 


55 


56 


Amplitude of yearly") 


















fluctuation (difference ( 
between hottest and f 


19 


29 


33 


31 


31 


37 


35 


39 


coldest months), . . ) 



















The increase in the amplitude of the yearly fluctuation is thus seen as we 
pass to the north, and ascend above sea-level. 

Madras Presidency. 



MONTHS. 


Madras, 
Fort St 
George, at 
sea-level. 


Bangalore, 
3000 feet 
above sea- 
level, lyear 
only. 


Bellary, 
1500 feet 
above 
sea-level. 


Secunder- 
abad, 1800 
feet above 
sea-level. 


Cannanore, 
15 feet 
above sea- 
level. 




o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


Mean of year, . 


82 


76 


80 


80 


82 


January, 


76 


69 


74 


73 


82 


February, 


78 


73 


79 


76 


82 


March, . 


80 


79 


85 


81 


84 


April, . 


84 


79 


88 


86 


86 


May, . . . 


87 


82 


86 


89 


85 


June, 


88 


77 


83 


83 


80 


July, . . . 


85 


77 


80 


80 


79 


August, . 


85 


75 


79 


79 


79 


September, 


84 


76 


79 


78 


79 


October, 


82 


75 


78 


78 


81 


November, 


79 


73 


74 


76 


82 


December, 


76 


71 


73 


73 


81 


Amplitude of yearly ) 
fluctuation, . . J 


12 


13 


15 


16 


7 



INDIA. 



567 



Bombay Presidency. 



MONTHS. 


Bombay, at 
sea-level. 


Poonah, 1800 
feet above 
sea-level. 


II!. 

boo > r 

ISlI 


. 


Neemuch. 
1 year. 


Mhow, 1862 
feet above 
sea-level. 


Hyderabad 
(Scinde), 99 
feet above 
sea-level. 


Kurrachee, 
27 feet above 
sea-level. 


Mean of year, 


80 


78 


74 


81 


71 


77 


81 


78 


January, . 


74 


72 


72 


71 


55 


70 


64 


62 


February, . 


76 


75 


75 


75 


60 


72 


71 


67 


March, 


80 


79 


78 


84 


70 


80 


81 


74 


April, . . 


83 


83 


81 


93 


81 


86 


87 


84 


May, . . 


86 


85 


78 


93 


84 


87 


91 


84 


June, . . 


83 


81 


75 


86 


80 


74 


92 


88 


July, . . 


81 


77 


73 


81 


74 


82 


91 


88 


August, 


81 


76 


72 


81 


74 


75 


88 


82 


September, 


80 


77 


74 


82 


75 


75 


85 


81 


October, . 


82 


79 


74 


82 


71 


77 


82 


79 


November, 


79 


76 


72 


75 


67 


75 


73 


73 


December, 


76 


73 


70 


73 


65 


71 


66 


65 


Amplitude 


















of yearly 
fluctua- 


12 


13 


11 


22 


29 


17 


28 


26 


tion, . 



















These temperatures, which represent those of stations of the countries where 
the troops are stationed, should be compared with the temperature of hill 
stations subsequently given. 

The mean monthly maximum and mean minimum temperatures of some of 
these places are as follows : 









Greatest 




Mean Maximum 


Mean Minimum 


possible 


PLACES. 


Hottest Month. 


Coldest Month. 


Monthly 








Amplitude. 


Calcutta, .... 


May, . 94 


December, . 59 


35 


Madras, .... 


May, . 91 


January, . 65 


26 


Lucknow, .... 


May, . 100 


January, . 53 


47 


Peshawur, .... 


June, . 102 


January, . 44 


58 


Bellary, .... 


May, . 92 


February, . 65 


27 


Bangalore, .... 


April, . 91 


January, . 59 


32 


Secunderabad, . . 


May, . 95 


January, . 64 


31 


Neemuch, .... 


May, . 94 


January, . 49 


45 


Poonah, .... 


April, . 95 


January, . 58 


37 


Kurrachee, 


June, . 95 


January, . 50 


45 



568 FOREIGN SERVICE. 

The mean daily range of temperature is as follows : 





Bengal Presidency. 


Madras Presidency. 


Bombay 
Presidency. 


MONTHS. 


A 


o 


^ 


y 


T O> 




g 


1 


rd 


A 


1 




11 


1 


1 


1 


Jo 


s 


'f 


1 


1 


1 


1 






A 


* 


AH 


^ 


m 


1 


1 

<u 








M 




h 















02 










o 


o 


o 


o 














o 





o 


January, . . 


18 


25 


22 


16 


21 


10 


20 


14 


23 


13 


36 


February, 


18 


19 


19 


13 


21 


16 


20 


16 


24 


21 


15 


March, 


17 


20 


18 


16 


21 


17 


18 


14 


23 


20 


14 


April, . . 


16 


20 


21 


23 


20 


15 


15 


16 


24 


20 


9 


May, . . . 


15 


19 


26 


18 


20 


15 


19 


13 


19 


19 


13 


June, . . . 


10 


16 


14 


23 


19 


10 


15 


9 


13 


4 


14 


July, . . . 


8 


16 


14 


19 


6 


10 


14 


8 


10 


3 


12 


August, . 


8 


7 


12 


22 


20 


9 


12 


9 


9 


2 


13 


September, . 


8 


6 


9 


21 


21 


11 


12 


9 


11 


8 


10 


October, . . 


10 


13 


27 


19 


21 


10 


13 


11 


18 


11 


21 


November, . 


15 


16 


31 


20 


19 


8 


12 


12 


22 


22 


37 


December, . 


18 


11 


16 


15 


18 


10 


18 


13 


22 


21 


39 


Mean daily ) 
range of year, J 


13 


16 


19 


19 


19 


12 


16 


12 


18 


14 


19 



The extreme daily range is, of course, greater than this. 

In addition, there are at several places great undulations of temperature 
from hot land winds, or from sea or shore breezes, or from mountain currents, 
which give to the place local peculiarities of temperature. 

The temperature of the sun's rays has not yet been properly determined 
with the self-registering black-bulb thermometer in vacuo. The temperatures 
which are recorded are, I believe, all made with the common thermometer, 
and give no adequate idea of the real heat of the sun. (See page 431.) 

These few figures give a general view of the chief thermometric points, and 
it will be seen that many of these stations are marked by a continued high 
temperature and a small mean daily range. To get the same mean annual 
temperature as in England, it would be necessary that 9500 feet be ascended 
in places south of lat. 20 ; between lat. 20 and 26, 9000 feet ; between lat. 
26 and 30, 8700 feet ; and north of lat. 30, 8500 (Glaisher). 

The mean monthly temperatures would, however, at such elevations, differ 
somewhat from those of England. Speaking generally, an elevation of 5000 
to 6000 feet will give over the whole of India a mean annual temperature 
about 10 higher than that of England, and with a rather smaller range 
(Glaisher). 

Mr Glaisher has calculated that in the cold months the decrease of tempera- 
ture is 1 0- 05 for each 300 feet of ascent, but increases from. March to August 
to 4 '5, and then gradually declines. These results are not accordant with the 
recent balloon ascents in this climate. 

Humidity. The humidity of different parts of India varies extremely ; there 
are climates of extreme humidity either flat, hot plains, like Lower Scinde, 
where, without rain, the hot air is frequently almost saturated, and may con- 



INDIA. 



569 



tain 10 or 11 grains of vapour in a cubic foot ; or mountain ranges like Doda- 
betta, in Madras, 8640 feet above sea-level, where, during the rainy season, 
the air is also almost saturated ; a copious rain, at certain times of the year, 
may make the air excessively moist, as on the Malabar coast, the coast of 
Tenasserim, or on the Khasyah Hills, where the south-west monsoon parts 
with its vapours in enormous quantities. 

On the other hand, on the elevated table-land of the interior, and on the 
hot plains of north-west India, during the dry season, or in the places exposed 
to the land winds at any part, the air is excessively dry. In the Deccan the 
annual average of the relative humidity is only 55 per cent, of saturation 
(Sykes). Mr Glaisher has assembled all that is at present known on the 
humidity of India. I extract a few stations : 

Mean Dew-Point. 





| 


i 












i 








MONTHS. 


II 


i! 


1 


1 


1 


i 


i 


1 


1 


1 


1 




|| 


o 


1 


1 


a 


1 


i 


1 





M 


1 




Pn 


& 












1 
































January, . . 


57 


67 


64 


48 


54 


39 


54 


54 


51 


48 


54 


February, 


61 


68 


64 


53 


56 


43 


60 


51 


50 


55 


51 


March, . . 


68 


71 


68 


57 


59 


56 


58 


60 


54 


60 


58 


April, . . . 


72 


76 


73 


60 


56 


66 


69 


59 


59 


66 


60 


May, . . . 


76 


76 


75 


72 


71 


62 


62 


62 


65 


74 


66 


June, . . . 


78 


73 


76 


78 


76 


72 


69 


66 


67 


76 


68 


July, . . . 


78 


73 


76 


84 


80 


74 


69 


68 


69 


76 


68 


August, . . 


78 


74 


74 


80 


71 


74 


66 


71 


69 


75 


67 


September, 


78 


75 


75 


80 


75 


65 


59 


73 


67 


71 


66 


October, . . 


74 


74 


74 


76 


71 


56 


67 


66 


62 


66 


61 


November, 


64 


71 


67 


61 


61 


45 


66 


58 


55 


52 


61 


December, 


57 


69 


64 


54 


48 


39 


60 


54 


51 


47 


55 


Mean daily ave- ) 
rage of Year, ] 


70 


72 


71 


67 


65 


57 


63 


62 


59 


64 


61 



If the table at page 407 be looked at, the mean monthly amount of vapour 
in a cubic foot of air will be the number opposite the temperature of the 
above table. If the mean monthly temperature of the month at any of the 
above stations be taken out of the table of mean monthly temperature already 
given, the mean monthly relative humidity (or, in other words, the evaporat- 
ing force of the air) can be calculated. 

Thus, let us take the month of July at Calcutta : 

Mean dew-point = 78 = 10*31 grains of vapour in a cubic foot of air. 
Mean temperature = 85 = 12-78 grains of vapour in a cubic foot of air. 

The relative humidity 10 'f* * 10 =80 per cent, of saturation. (See 
12'78 

METEOROLOGY). 

It may be well to mention the dew-point of the year at Greenwich for com- 
parison ; it is 44 ; the mean weight of vapour is 3 '3, varying from 4 '7 grains 
in August to 2 -4 in January; the mean relative humidity is 82, varying from 



570 



FOREIGN SERVICE. 



89 in December and January to 76 in July. Calcutta, therefore, with a 
mean yearly humidity of 6 8 '6 per cent, of saturation, is, as far as relative 
humidity (i. e. evaporating power) goes, less moist than England, and the 
evaporating power is also increased by the higher temperature. 

Rain. The amount of rain and the period of fall vary exceedingly in the 
different places. It is chiefly regulated by the monsoons. 

When the south-west monsoon, loaded with vapour, first strikes on high 
land, as on the Western Ghauts, on the Malabar coast, or on the mountains of 
Tenasserim, and especially on the mountains of the Khasyah Hills, at some 
points of which it meets with a still colder air, a deluge of rain falls ; as for 
example at Cannanore (Malabar), 121 inches; Mahableshwur, 253 inches; 
Moulmein (Tenasserim), 180 inches ; Cherrapoonjee (Khasyah Hills), 600 
inches. On the other hand, even in places near the sea, if there is no high 
land, and the temperature is high, scarcely any rain falls ; as in Aden, on the 
south coast of Arabia, or at Kotu, in Scinde, where the amount is only 1'8 
annually, or Kurrachee, where the yearly average is only 4 '6 inches. Or in 
inland districts, the south-west monsoon, having lost most of its water as it 
passed over the hills, may be comparatively dry, as at Nusseerabad, where 
only 15 -8 inches fall per annum, or Peshawur, where there are 13 '7 inches 
annually. 

The yearly amount of rain in some of the principal stations is 



Average. 

Calcutta, . . .56-8 

Madras, . . . .50 

Bombay, . . . 72 '7 
Bengal Presidency 

Dinapore, . . . 31*1 

Berhampore, . . 49 '8 

Benares, . . .37*4 

Ghazeepore, . . 41 -4 

Azimghur, . . .40 
Agra, .... 27-9 

Delhi,. . . .25-1 

Meerut, . . .18 

Punjab, . . .56-6 



Average. 
Madras Presidency 

Bellary, . . .21-7 
Bangalore, . . .25 
Trichinopoly, . .30'6 
Secunderabad, . .34*6 



Bombay Presidency 

Belgaum, . . .51'5 

Poonah, . . 2 7 '6 

Neemuch, . . .34-1 

Kamptee, . . . 41 '8 



Winds. The general winds of India are the north-east monsoon, which is, 
in fact, the great north-east trade-wind, and the south-west monsoon, a wind 
caused by the aspiration of the hot earth of the continent of Asia, when the 
sun is at its northern declination. During part of the year (May to August) 
the south-west monsoon forces back the trade-wind or throws it up, for at 
great altitudes the north-east monsoon blows through the whole year, and the 
south-west monsoon is below it. But, in addition, there are an immense 
number of local winds which are caused by the diverting effect of hills on the 
monsoons, or are cold currents from hills, or sea breezes, or shore winds caused 
by the contact of sea breezes and other winds, or by the first feeble action of 
the south-west monsoon before it has completely driven back the north-east 
trade. The south-west monsoon is in most of its course loaded with vapour ; 
the north-east is, on the contrary, a colder and drier wind, except when at 
certain times of the year, in passing over the Indian Ocean, it takes up some 
water, and reaches the Coromandel coast and Ceylon a moist and rain-carrying 
wind. 

The hot land winds are caused by both the south-west monsoon, after it 
has parted with its moisture and got warmed by the hot central plains, and 



INDIA. 571 

the north-east monsoon ; the temperature is very great, and the relative 
humidity very small ; the difference between the dry and the wet bulb being 
sometimes 15 to 25 Fahr. 

Pressure of the Air. On this point little need be said. The barometer is 
very steady at most sea-coast stations, and its daily variations (see METEOROLOGY) 
are chiefly caused by alteration in humidity. An elevation of 5000 feet lowers 
the barometer to nearly 25 inches. 

Electricity. On this point few, if any, experiments have been made ; the 
air is extremely charged with electricity, especially in the dry season, and the 
dust-storms are attended with marked disturbance of the electrometer.* 

The estimation of the effects of such various climates is a task of great diffi- 
culty, which has been already, in great part, discussed in the chapter on 
CLIMATE. Long-continued high temperature, alternations of great atmospheric 
dryness and moisture, rapidly moving and perhaps dry and hot air, are 
common conditions at many stations ; at others, great heat during part of the 
year is followed by weather so cold that even in England it would be thought 
keen. When to these influences the development of malaria is added, enough 
has been said to show that, a priori, we can feel certain that the natives of 
temperate climates will not support such a climate without influence on health, 
and the selection of healthy spots for troops is a matter of the greatest 
moment as affects both health and comfort. This much being said, it must 
at the same time be asserted that, malaria excepted, the influences of climate 
are not the chief causes of sickness. 

The location of troops should be governed by two or three conditions : 
1. Military necessities ; 2. Convenience ; 3. Conditions of health. The second 
of these conditions is, however, a mere question of administration ; every 
place can be made convenient in these days of railways and easy locomotion. 
Military necessity and health are the only real considerations which should 
guide our choice. 

What is now wanted in India is some great soldier, who, with the intuitive 
glance of genius, will indicate what are the vital military points. These must 
be held with the necessary forces, and then the whole of the remaining troops 
can be located on the most healthy spots. 

These spots cannot be in the plains. Let any one look at a geological map 
of India, and see the vast tract of alluvial soil which stretches from the loose 
soil of Calcutta, formed by the deposit of a tidal estuary, up past Cawnpore, 
Delhi, to the vast plains of the Punjab, Scinde, and Beloochistan. The 
whole of that space is more or less malarious, and will continue to be so until, 
in the course of centuries, it is brought into complete tillage, drained, and 
cultivated. 

In looking for healthy spots, where temperature is less tropical, and mala- 
rious exhalations less abundant, there are only two classes of localities which 
can be chosen seaside places and highlands. 

Seaside places. The advantages of a locality of this kind are, the reduction 
in temperature caused by the expanse of water, the absence of excessive dry- 
ness of the air, and the frequent occurrence of breezes from the sea. All these 
advantages may be counteracted by the other features of the place; by a damp 
alluvial soil, bad water, &c. 

It does not appear that many eligible places have yet been found, and as a 
substitute in Bengal, the Europeans from Calcutta go and live on board a 
steamer anchored off the Sandheads, thus literally carrying out a suggestion 
of Lind in the West Indies a century ago. 

* See Baddeley's " Whirlwinds and Dust-storms of India " (1860), for a very good account of 
these singular storms. 



572 FOREIGN SERVICE. 

In the Bay of Bengal, Waltair, in the nothern division of Madras, is one 
of the best.* Cape Calimere (28 miles south of Nagapatam) also appears to 
have many advantages (Macpherson). On the opposite coast, Cape Negrais 
on the Burmese coast, was pointed out as long ago as 1825, by Sir Eanald 
Martin as a good marine sanitarium, and Amherst in Tenasserim, and some 
of the islands down the coast towards Mergui are beautiful spots for such a 
purpose, being, however, unfortunately, at a great distance from the large 
military stations, and not being well supplied with food. 

On the Bombay side, at Sedashagur or Beitkul Bay, between Maiigalore 
and Goa, a spur of the Western Ghauts projects into the sea for upwards of a 
mile, and forms an admirable sea-coast sanitarium (Macpherson). 

All these sea-coast stations seem, adapted for organic visceral affections and 
dysentery, but they are not so well calculated for permanent stations for 
healthy men. Probably they are rather sanitaria than stations. 

Highlands. The location of troops on the hills or on elevated table-lands 
has long been considered by the best army medical officers as the most impor- 
tant sanitary measure which can be adopted. Not only does such a location 
improve greatly the vigour of the men, who on the hill stations preserve the 
healthy, ruddy hue of the European, but it prevents many diseases. If pro- 
perly selected, the vast class of malarious diseases disappears ; liver diseases 
are less common, and bowel complaints, in some stations at any rate, are 
neither so frequent nor so violent. Digestion and blood-nutrition are greatly 
improved. Moreover, a proper degree of exercise can be taken, and the best 
personal hygienic rules easily observed. 

Indian surgeons appear, however, to think the hill stations not adapted 
for cardiac and respiratory complaints ; it is possible that this objection is 
theoretical. The latest European experience is to the effect that phthisis is 
singularly benefited by even moderate, still more perhaps by great elevation ; 
that anaemia and faulty blood-nutrition are cured by high positions with 
great rapidity, and that if the elevation be not too great (perhaps not over 
3000 feet) even chronic heart diseases are improved (see page 437). In some 
of the hill stations of India bowel complaints were formerly so frequent as to 
give rise to the term " hill diarrhoea." The elevation was credited with an 
effect which it never produced, for, not to speak of other parts of the world', 
there are stations in India itself (Darjeeling, for example) as high as any 
other, where the so-called hill diarrhoea was unknown. At Newera Ellia, in 
Ceylon, too, if the simple condition of mountain elevation could have pro- 
duced diarrhoea, it would have been present, but it has never been known 
there. The cause of the hill diarrhoea was certainly, in many stations, the 
impure drinking water ; whether this was the case in all, I am not sure. Some 
of the hill stations are said not to be adapted for rheumatic cases j in other 
instances (as at Subathoo) rheumatism is much benefited. I infer, from read- 
ing the reports from these stations, that damp barracks, and not the station, 
have been in some cases the cause of the rheumatism. 

But it must be noticed that the evidence given before the Indian Sanitary 
Commission shows, on all or almost all hill stations, a most lamentable want 
of the commonest sanitary appliances. At great expense men are sent up to 
the hills, where everything is, or was, left undone which could make that 
expense profitable. It appeared to be thought sufficient to ascend 6000 feet 
to abandon all the most obvious sanitary rules, without which no place can 
be healthy. 

Admitting, as a point now amply proved, that stations of elevation are the 

* Evidence of Dr Maclean iu Indian Report, p. 139. 



INDIA. 573 

proper localities for all troops not detained in the plains by imperative military 
reasons, the following questions are still not completely answered : 

1. What amount of elevation is the best? We have seen that to reduce 
the temperature to the English mean, 5000 to 6000 feet must on an average 
be ascended. But then such an elevation brings with it certain incon- 
veniences, viz., in some stations much rain and even fog at certain times of 
the year, and cold winds. However unpleasant this may be, it yet seems 
clear, from the experience of Newera Ellia, in Ceylon, that damp and cold 
are not hurtful. But it must also be said that, with a proper selection, dry 
localities can be found at this elevation. 

From 3000 to 4000 feet have been recommended, especially, to avoid the 
conditions just mentioned. Whether places of this height are equal in 
salubrity to the colder and higher points is uncertain. 

Even at 6000 feet there may be marsh land, though it is not very malarious. 
Malarious fever has been known during the rains at Kussowlie (6400 feet), 
and Subathoo (4000), and other Himalayan stations. Malaria may, however, 
drift up valleys to a great height ;* but, apart from this, it seems likely that 
5000 feet, and probably 4000, will perfectly secure from malaria. Probably, 
indeed, a less height will be found effectual. 

At no point do hot land winds occur, or at any rate endure, at above 4000 
feet. 

Dr Macpherson (Inspector-General of Hospitals, Madras), divides moun- 
tain climates into three categories : 

1. Below 3500 feet, tonic and soothing. 

2. Between 3500 and 6000 feet, tonic and invigorating. 

3. Above 6000 feet, tonic and exciting, t 

On the whole, it would appear probable that the best localities are above 
5000 feet, but below 7000. 

2. What stations are the best the tops of solitary hills, spurs of high 
mountains, or elevated table-lands ? 

Ranald Martin has called especial attention to the solitary hills, rising as 
they do sometimes from an almost level plain to 2000 and 3000 feet. Such 
mountain islands seem especially adapted for troops if there is sufficient space 
at the top. They are free from ravines conducting cold air from higher land, 
and are often less rainy than the spurs of loftier hills. 

The spurs of the Himalayas, however, present many eligible spots, and so 
do some table-lands. And perhaps, on the whole, if the elevation is suffi- 
cient, it is not a matter of much importance which of these formations is 
chosen; other circumstances, viz., purity of water, space, ease of access, and 
supplies, &c., will generally decide. 

Iii choosing hill stations, the points discussed in the chapter on SOILS should 
be carefully considered, and it is always desirable to have a trial for a year or 
two before the station is permanently fixed. 

It may be desirable to give an enumeration of the hill stations now in use. 
The following table is copied from Dr Macpherson : 

* It has drifted up even to the summits of the Neilgherries, 7000 or 8000 feet. Indian Sanitary 
Report, Mr Elliott's Evidence, vol. i. p. 250. 

f The statements of Jourdanet (see page 438) should receive due consideration, and be tested 
by observations, but it is probable they are not correct ; they apply to elevations above 6000 
feet. 



574 



FOREIGN SERVICE. 



oeooooiooo ; o : o co 

t-OOt-t COiOldlO O .-^-rH 



co 



OOOCOOO 
OOOOOOO 
OOCOt-^CM 



Or lOOr t 
OCOO-^CO 
OCO lOOr i 



iQ 
^ 



OOO 
COOO 
(M 



CO 
CO 



OOiO 
OOi-H 
t <?q O 



CO Oi O C<1 



COJ>.COCC>t~CC>CO 



-CO^OO 



^oooocoocioob-coooo -10 -ooo 
cot>-t^ Ico Icob- 



rH CO 

coco 



ICrH 
1OCO 



cot-cot-t cocot 



OO i I o 

Icot r-i 



OiCOOlT 
COtCOt-OOiOCOCOCO 



'CO 
ICO 



00 

-COCOr- ic 4H 
I CO t t O 



t Ob- 
COt-t- 



I-H "* O 

^H ^ -^ 



OOlO 
"*I^CO 



t CiOir- 1 i ICOCOOO 

tcocooococococo 



to 

-I-HXOCOC3 

It-t GO 



COCOCOt COCOCOCOCOCO 



OOCOt O i it GO O i 1 
IO1OXO .COCOCOCOCOCO 



OOOO 
COOOt 



cot co o i i cq co co -xocoo 

"^"rtl IlOCOCOCOlOO I CO t CO 



1C CO i-H 

CO t- CO 



r-iCO -1O 
OlO .CO 



OO 
t CO 



CO 
COCOCO 



H 



III 






.a-fl!-. il 







INDIA. 575 

In all the presidencies of India elevated spots where troops can be can- 
toned exist in abundance.* 

Fresh stations are, however, being constantly discovered, and it seems now 
certain that there is scarcely any important strategical point without an 
elevated site near it. 

Near Nynee Tal, in Kumaon, are Almorah (5500 feet), and Hawalbagh 
(4000 feet), both well spoken of. Kunawar (5000 or 6000 feet), in the 
valley of the Sutlej, has a delicious climate ; and Chini (about 100 miles 
from Simla), is a most desirable spot. 

Passing down from the north-west towards Calcutta, Dr M'Clellan found 
elevated land within 100 miles of Allahabad; and farther south still there 
came the Travancore mountains, with numerous good sites. 

If, then, the mass of the troops are cantoned on elevated places, the dis- 
advantages of climate are almost removed. The Indian Sanitary Commis- 
sioners recommend that one-third of the force shall be in the hills, and that 
enfeebled men and recruits especially shall be sent there. But it is to be 
hoped that not only one-third, but a large majority of the troops will 
eventually be placed there. 

SUB-SECTION II. DISEASES OF THE NATIVES. 

It is impossible that Europeans can be perfectly isolated from the nations 
among whom they serve ; they have suffered from the pestilential diseases of 
the Hindus, but still it is wonderful they have not suffered more. Cholera is 
the chief disease, which, arising in the native population, scourges their con- 
querors. Some fevers also, relapsing fever, perhaps a " febris icterodes," or 
bilious remittent, which has occasionally attacked Europeans, have had their 
origin, or at any rate their conditions of spread, in the dense populations of 
native cities. Happily, the black death (the Maha murree, or Pali plague) has 
never yet spread to the troops, and has indeed been confined within narrow 
limits. Still these pestilences among the native population are an ever-pre- 
sent menace to Europeans, and, as in the case of cholera, may pass to them at 
any time. Cholera, certainly, will never be extirpated until attacked in its 
strongholds, among the miserable dwellings which make so large a part of 
every oriental city. 

The exact influence on Europeans of the customs and modes of life of the 
natives of India has not, as far as I know, been made an object of special study, 
but it cannot be inconsiderable. In many places the Europeans and the natives 
are in close neighbourhood, and the air at all times, and often the water, must 
be influenced by the social life of the native races. The proximity to large 
cities or bazaars is indeed often alluded to by army officers as affecting the 
health of their men ; it would be very interesting to know the precise effect. 
The sanitary condition of almost all the large native towns, and the sanitary 
habits of the country people, are as bad as can be. Bad water, foetid air, want 
of sewage removal, and personal habits of uncleanliness, abound everywhere. 
The Report of the Indian Sanitary Commission is now beginning a series of 
changes in this respect, which will probably change, in toto, the medical history 
of India. 

SUB-SECTION III. SPECIAL HYGIENIC CONDITIONS. 

The special hygienic conditions (apart from locality) under which the 
soldier serves in India have been the main causes of excess of disease. This 

* See the evidence in the Indian Sanitary Report (vol. i.) of Sir R. Martin, Mr Elliott, Dr 
Maclean, Dr Alexander Grant, Mr Montgomery Martin, and others. Also most instructive 
reports by Dr Macpherson, Indian Report, vol. ii. p. 622, and by Dr Alexander Grant, Indian 
Annals. 



576 FOREIGN SEEVICE. 

subject has lately received a searching inquiry from the Sanitary Com- 
missioners.* They declare, and after reading the Station Eeports and the 
evidence given before them, no one will doubt the assertion, that while 
malaria, extremes of temperature, moisture, and variability of temperature, 
cause a certain amount of sickness, " there are other causes of a very active 
kind, connected with stations, barracks, hospitals, and the habits of the men, 
of the same nature as those which are known in colder climates to occa- 
sion attacks of those very diseases from which the Indian army suffer so 
severely." 

And the Commissioners enumerate a list of causes connected with un- 
healthy stations, bad barracks, over-crowding, impure air and water, bad 
drainage, imperfect ablution, inferior rations and cooking, &c. 

In fact, no doubt can exist in the minds of all who have studied the sub- 
ject, that these form the most potent class of causes which affect health. 

SUB-SECTION IY. HABITS AND CUSTOMS OF THE TROOPS. 

The habits of the men and the customs of service are, however, also great 
causes of disease. 

The men are, as a rule, intemperate, great smokers, and indisposed for 
exertion. It has, indeed, been pointed out with truth, that in proportion to 
their amount of exercise the men are much overfed, and some diseases of the 
liver appear to result directly from this simple condition. 

The want of exercise is not always the fault of the men. The early morn- 
ing hours, and often the evening, are occupied with parades ; in the period 
between, the men are often confined to barracks. Here, listless, unoccupied, 
and devoured with ennui, they pass the weary day, lying down perhaps for 
hours daily, or lounging on chairs smoking. 

This forced confinement to barracks is indeed an evil often greater than 
that it is intended to remove. To prevent men from passing out into the 
sun they are compelled to remain in a hot, often ill-ventilated room, worse for 
health than the intensest rays of the sun,t that scape-goat of almost every 
fault and vice of Indian life. 

All these causes are summed up by Miss Nightingale in some of those 
telling sentences which have done more than anything else to force attention 

* Report of the Commissioners on the Sanitary State of the Army in India, 1863. Report, 
p. 79, published in 1864 in small bulk. 

f I shall never forget the sufferings of the men in the old barracks at Madras. We arrived 
there from Moulmein, where the men had never been confined to barracks, and where, during 
two hot seasons, no injury had resulted from allowing them to go out when they liked. On 
arrival at Madras, in accordance with invariable custom, the men were confined to barracks. 
They lay all day on their beds, reeking with perspiration ; the space was so small and ventila- 
tion so bad, that the heat was perfectly intolerable in the barracks, though the sun's rays were 
quite bearable. The sufferings were extreme. When the afternoon came, more injury had 
been done by the hot and impure air than exposure to the sun's rays could have caused. 

At Moulmein, in Tenasserim, at one time, two European regiments served together. The 
barracks of each were perfectly healthy ; the food and duties were the same ; yet one showed a 
sick list and mortality always much greater than the other. Serving in the station shortly 
afterwards, I was so struck by this difference that I went over all the returns and reports in the 
staff-surgeon's office to make out the cause ; the only difference I could detect was, that in the 
sickly regiment the men were confined to barracks, in the other they were allowed to go about 
as they pleased. Many years afterwards, I met with a medical officer who had served in the 
sickly regiment, and learned from him that he had always considered the confinement to bar- 
racks, and the want of exercise, and the impure air breathed by that system almost night and 
day, were the causes of a disparity so striking. No one would recommend imprudent ex- 
posure to the sun : men may be trusted to avoid its intensest rays ; but to reduce men to en- 
forced idleness for many hours, and to confine them in the small space of a barrack-room, is 
not the way of meeting the evil. (On this point see also page 557 for Dr Clark's observations 
on want of exercise as compared with exposure to the sun on the West Coast of Africa. ) 



INDIA. 577 

to these vital questions. After referring to the large mortality of India, Miss 
Nightingale * continues : 

" 1. Unofficial people are everywhere asking the question, how this great 
death-rate has arisen how it happens that one of the most civilised and 
healthy nations in the world no sooner lands the pick of its working popula- 
tion in tropical climates (for similar losses occur in all tropical climates among 
us), than they begin to die off at this enormous rate? 

" I am afraid the reply must be, that British civilisation is insular and 
local, and that it takes small account of how the world goes on out of its own 
island. There is a certain aptitude amongst other nations which enables 
them to adapt themselves, more or less, to foreign climates and countries. 
But, wherever you place your Briton, you may feel satisfied that he will care 
nothing about climates. 

" If he has been a large eater and a hard drinker at home ten to one he 
will be, to say the least of it, as large an eater and as hard a drinker in the 
burning plains of Hindustan. Enlist an Irish or a Scotch labourer who has 
done many a hard day's work almost entirely on farinaceous or vegetable 
diet, with an occasional dose of whisky, place him at some Indian station 
where the thermometer ranges at between 90 and 100, and he will make 
no difficulty in disposing of three or four times the quantity of animal 
food he ever ate under the hardest labour during winter at home if, indeed, 
he ever ate any at all. 

" Now the ordinary system of dieting British soldiers in India is more 
adapted to a cold climate than that of out-door, farm-servants doing work in 
England. 

"More than this, the occasional dram at home is commuted, by regula- 
tion, in India, into a permission to drink two drams, i.e., 6 oz. of raw 
spirits every day. And be it remembered that, at the same time, the men 
have little or nothing to do. The craving for spirits, induced by this regu- 
lation-habit of tippling, leads to increase of drunkenness so that, what 
with over-eating, over-drinking, total idleness, and vice springing directly 
from these, the British soldier in India has small chance indeed of coping 
with the climate, so called. The regulation-allowance of raw spirit which a 
man may obtain at the canteen is no less than 18^ gallons per annum ; which 
is, I believe, three times the amount per individual which has raised 
Scotland, in the estimation of economists, to the rank of being the most 
spirit-consuming nation in Europe. Of late years malt liquor has been 
partly substituted for spirits. But, up to the present time, every man, if he 
thinks fit, may draw his 18J gallons a-year of spirits, besides what he gets 
surreptitiously at the bazaar. t 

" So much for intemperance. But not to this alone, nor to this mainly, 
nor to this and its kindred vice together, is to be laid the soldier-mortality 
in India. 

" The diseases from which the soldier mainly suffers there are miasmatic ; 
now, intemperance never produced miasmatic diseases yet. They are foul-air 
diseases and foul-water diseases : fevers, dysenteries, and so on. But intem- 
perance may cause liver disease ; and it may put the man into a state of health 
which prevents him from resisting miasmatic causes. 

" 2. What are these causes ? We have not far to look. 

" The Briton leaves his national civilisation behind him, and brings his 
personal vices with him. 

* " How people may Live and not Die in India," by Florence Nightingale, 1863, p. 5. 
f Sir Hugh Rose has reduced the spirit ration one-half since Miss Nightingale wrote. 

2o 



578 FOREIGN SERVICE. 

"At home there have been great improvements everywhere in agricultural 
and in town drainage, and in providing plentiful and pure water supplies. 

" There is nothing of the kind in India. There is no drainage either in 
town or in country. There is not a single station drained. If such a state 
of things existed at home, we should know that we have fevers, cholera, and 
epidemics to expect. But hitherto only a few enlightened people have ex- 
pected anything of the kind from these same causes in India (although they 
are always happening). 

"As regards water, there is certainly not a single barrack in India which 
is supplied, in our sense of the term, at all. There are neither water-pipes 
nor drain-pipes. Water is to be had either from tanks, into which all the 
filth on the neighbouring surface may at any time be washed by the rains ; or 
from shallow wells, dug in unwholesome or doubtful soil. So simple a piece 
of mechanism as a pump is unknown. Water is drawn in skins, carried in 
skins on the backs of men or bullocks, and poured into any sort of vessels in 
the barracks for use. The quantity of water is utterly insufficient for health. 
And as to the quality, the less said about that the better. There is no reason 
to hope that any station has what in this country would be called a pure water 
supply. And at some it is to be feared that, when men drink water, they 
drink cholera with it. 

" The construction of barracks, where men have to pass their whole period 
of service, is another illustration of how completely home civilisation is 
reversed in India. All our best soldiers have been brought up in country 
cottages ; and when in barracks at home, there are rarely more than from 
twelve to twenty men in a room. But as soon as the soldier comes to India 
he is put into a room with 100, or 300, and, in one case, with as many as 
600 men. Just when the principle of subdivision into a number of detached 
barracks becomes of, literally, vital importance, the proceeding is reversed ; 
and the men are crowded together under circumstances certain, even in Eng- 
land, to destroy their health. 

" To take another illustration : Our home British population is about the 
most active in the world. In fact, we in this country consider exercise and 
health inseparable ; but as soon as the same men go to India, they are shut 
up all day in their hot, close barrack rooms, where they also eat and sleep ; 
they are not allowed to take exercise ; all their meals are eaten in the hottest 
part of the day, and served to them by native servants ; and they lie on their 
beds idle and partly sleeping till sunset ! ' Unrefreshing day-sleep' is indeed 
alleged as one of the causes for the soldier's ill-health in India the soldier, 
the type of endurance and activity, who now becomes the type of sloth ! 

" 3. The Indian social state of the British soldier is not only the reverse of 
the social state of the soldier at home, and of the class from which he is taken, 
but there is a great exaggeration in the wrong direction. Yet people are sur- 
prised that British soldiers die in India, and lay the whole blame on the climate. 

" It is natural to us to seek a scape-goat for every neglect, and climate has 
been made to play this part ever since we set foot in India. Sir Charles 
Napier says, * That every evil from which British troops have suffered has 
been laid at its door.' ' The effects of man's imprudence are attributed to 
climate ; if a man gets drunk, the sun has given him a headache, and so on.' 
In regard to Delhi, he says, ' Every garden, if not kept clean, becomes a morass; 
weeds flourish, filth runs riot, and the grandest city in India has the name of 
being insalubrious, although there is nothing evil about it that does not appear 
to be of man's own creation.' 

" One most important result of the inquiry of the Royal Commission has 
been to destroy this bugbear. They have reduced 'climate' to its proper 



INDIA. 579 

dimensions and influence, and they have shown that, just as hot moist weather 
at home calls people to account for sanitary neglects and acts of intemperance, 
so does the climate of India call to account the same people there. There is 
not a shadow of proof that India was created to be the grave of the British 
race. The evidence, on the contrary, is rather in the other direction, and 
shows that all that the climate requires is, that men shall adapt their social 
habits and customs to it; as, indeed, they must do to the requirements of 
every other climate under heaven. 

" This necessity includes all the recommendations made by the Eoyal Com- 
mission for improving the health, and reducing to one-sixth the death-rate of 
the British Army in India. They all amount to this : You have in India 
such and such a climate ; if you wish to keep your health in it : 

" Be moderate in eating and drinking; eat very little animal food; let your 
diet be chiefly farinaceous and vegetable. 

" Spirits are a poison, to be used only (like other poisons) for any good 
purpose, under medical advice. Use beer or light wine, but sparingly. Drink 
coffee or tea. Clothe yourself lightly to suit the climate, wearing thin flannel 
always next the skin. Take plenty of exercise, and use prudence and common 
sense as to the times of it. 

" So far for personal habits. But a man cannot drain and sewer his own 
city, nor lay a water supply on to his own station, nor build his own barracks. 
What follows pertains to Government : 

" Let it be the first care to have a plentiful supply of pure water laid on 
for every purpose ; drain all dwellings ; have no cess-pits ; attend rigidly to 
cleansing, not only to surface-cleansing. 

" Never build in a wet hollow nor on a sludgy river -bank, which would be 
avoided by sensible people even at home. Never crowd large numbers into 
the same room ; build separate barrack rooms, instead of large barracks ; place 
these so that the air plays freely round them ; raise them above the ground 
with a current of air beneath. 

" Do these things, and the climate may be left to take care of itself. 

" But, if we would make India about as healthy as England, only some- 
what hotter, let us have improved agriculture and agricultural drainage. 

" If all these improvements were carried out, the normal death-rate of the Brit- 
ish soldier would be, not 69 per 1000, but 10 per 1000, say the Commissioners. 

" But it is not for the soldier alone we speak. The report has a much 
deeper meaning and intent than this : it aims at nothing less than to bring 
the appliances of a higher civilisation to the natives of India. Such revelations 
are made, especially in the reports from the stations, with regard to the sanitary 
condition of these, as to be. almost incredible. Everywhere the people are 
suffering from epidemic diseases : fevers, dysenteries, cholera constant epide- 
mics we may call them, and constant high death-rates (how high can never be 
known, because there is no registration). 

" The plague and pestilence is the ordinary state of things. The extra- 
ordinary is when these sweep over large tracts, gathering strength in their 
course, to pass over gigantic mountain ranges, and to spread their ravages over 
Western Agia and Europe. And all this might be saved ! 

" We know the causes of epidemic outbreaks here. Take the worst condi- 
tion of the worst and most neglected town district at home; and this is, to 
say the least of it, much better than the normal condition of nearly the whole 
surface of every city and town in India. 

" Not one city or town is drained; domestic filth round the people's houses 
is beyond description; water supply is from wells, or tanks, in ground satu- 
rated with filth ; no domestic conveniences ; every spare plot of ground is 

2 o 2 



580 FOREIGN SERVICE. 

therefore in a condition defying us to mention it further ; rains of the rainy 
season wash the filth of the past dry season into the wells and tanks. The 
air in, and for some distance round, native towns is as foul as sewer air. [At 
Madras a wall has actually been built to keep this from the British town.] 
JSTo sanitary administration ; no sanitary police. 

" Here then we have, upon a gigantic scale, the very conditions which in- 
variably precede epidemics at home. India is the focus of epidemics. Had 
India not been such, cholera might never have been. Even now, the Sun- 
derbunds, where every sanitary evil is to be found in its perfection, are nurs- 
ing a form of plague increasing yearly in intensity, covering a larger and larger 
area, and drawing slowly round the capital of India itself. 

" Are we to learn our lesson in time ? 

" Some say, What have we to do with the natives or their habits? 

" Others find an excuse for doing nothing in the questions arising out of 
caste. But caste has not interfered with railways. 

" The people of themselves have no power to prevent or remove these evils, 
which now stand as an impassable barrier against all progress. Government 
is everything in India. 

" The time has gone past when India was considered a mere appanage of 
British commerce. In holding India, we must be able to show the moral 
right of our tenure. Much is being done, no doubt, to improve the country 
by railways, canals, and means of communication ; to improve the people 
by education, including under this word, European literature and science. 

" But what at home can be done in education, if we neglect physical laws 1 
How does education progress here', without means of cleanliness, of decency, 
or health 1 The school lessons of a month are sapped in an hour. If the 
people are left a prey to epidemics and to immoral agencies in their homes, it 
is not much good sending them to school. Where should we be now Avith all 
our schools, if London were like Calcutta, Madras, or Bombay, the three seats 
of Government in India ? 

" The next great work, then, is sanitary reform in India. 

" There is not a town which does not want water supply, draining, paving, 
and cleansing. 

" Healthy plans for arranging and constructing buildings. 

" Together with agricultural drainage and improved cultivation all round. 

" These things the people cannot do for themselves. But the India Govern- 
ment can do them. ****** 

" The work is urgent. Every day it is left undone adds its quota of ineffi- 
ciency to the British army, and its thousands of deaths to the native popula- 
tion. Danger is common to European and to native. Many of the best men 
this country ever had have fallen victims to the same causes of disease which 
have decimated the population of Hindustan. And so it will be till the India 
Government has fulfilled its vast responsibility towards those great multi- 
tudes who are no longer strangers and foreigners, but as much the subjects of 
our beloved Queen as any one of us." (Page 5, et seq. ) 

There are one or two points, connected with the habits of the soldier, which 
must be a little more discussed. With regard especially to diet two points 
must be considered : 

1. What amount of food should be taken? In India, as in all parts of the 
world, food is taken in proportion to the mechanical work done by the body, 
and to the equivalent of mechanical force, viz., animal heat. 

High temperature, as lessening the loss of the body heat, must, pro tanto, 
lessen the need of food to supply the temperature ; and it has been supposed 



INDIA. 



581 



that the diet of men in cold countries (arctic regions) and in hot, contrasted 
remarkably in respect of the amount of carboniferous food taken by each. 
But although it is certain that large quantities of meat and fat are taken by 
men living in or arriving in cold countries, it is now known that the natives 
of some of the hottest parts of the world take immense quantities of both fats 
and starches. In fact, both these substances perhaps, certainly fats, are taken 
to supply mechanical force directly, as well as animal heat. It is not, in fact, 
yet known what amount of lessening of food, or what kind of lessening, the 
increased heat of the tropics demands, or whether any is demanded, for exact 
experiments are wanting. Our best guide at present for the quantity of food 
to be taken in the tropics, is to apportion it to the amount of mechanical work 
done, as in temperate climates. In India, as elsewhere, it must be in balance 
with exercise. The points then to be considered are the amounts of daily 
food and of daily exercise, and by means of the tables (p. 139, et seg.) for- 
merly given, and by knowing the habits of the men, little difficulty will be 
found in determining the proper ration quantity of food with accuracy. 

Admitting that at present we are not in a position to say whether the rela- 
tive proportions of the four great dietetic classes should be altered in India, 
from the standard proved to be the best for temperate climates, we can yet 
affirm that our present knowledge would seem to show that the amounts of 
these substances should not necessarily be altered. 

The Indian regulation ration is as follows : 

Daily Ration in India, in most Stations, in ounces and tenths of ounces. 







Nutritive Value. 


Name of Article. 


Daily 
Quantity. 




Water. 


Nitrog. 
Subst. 


Fats. 


Starches. 


Salts. 


Bread, . 


16 


6-4 


1-28 


24 


7-8 


2 


( 


16, less 3 -2 


) 










Meat, . . \ 


for bone, 


f 9-6 


1-92 


1-07 


... 


2 


1 


=-12-8 


3 










Yegetables,*taken ) 
as Carrots, J 


16 


13-6 


96 


04 


93 


11 


Rice, 


4 


4 


20 


03 


3-33 


02 


Sugar, . 


2-5 


075 


... 




2-41 


012 


Salt, 


1 








... 


1 


Coffee (or in part ) 
black tea), J 


1-75 






... 


-. 


... 


Total, exclusive of ) 
Coffee, | 


52-3 


30-075 


4-36 


1-38 


14-47 


1-542 








Total Solids, 21'752t 



Mutton is issued once a-week ; beef six times. Instead of rice, the soldier 
may, if he pleases, receive flour. Breakfast is at 8 -30; dinner at 2 '30; and 
tea after evening parade. 

If this diet be compared with the home ratio (page 152), it is found to be 
slightly more nitrogenous and less rich in starches. The difference is not 

* The vegetables are of different kinds : yams, sweet potatoes, pumpkins, &c. If yams are 
used, the amount is greater than in the text. 

t In calculating out these diets, there is a little apparent loss from not carrying on all the 
places of decimals. 



582 FOREIGN SERVICE. 

considerable, however. Is it too much for India? This will depend entirely 
on the amount of exercise ; no doubt for a perfectly idle man it would be too 
much, but not if the amount of exercise is that of the home standard. In 
fact, it is believed to be in reality insufficient in quantity and in quality, from 
the fact that good meat, and even in some parts good bread, is not readily pro- 
curable in India. Vegetables also are deficient in many stations at certain 
times of the year.* It appears, however, that the soldier almost always buys 
additional food, and he may eat much more than is stated above. As already 
said (p. 461), Dr Macnamara found the troops in Bengal taking no less than 
76 ounces of food (i.e., water containing food), while the regulation ration is 
only 52 ounces, so that these men were largely over-feeding. And Dr Demp- 
ster (Indian Sanitary Eeport Evidence) states that the majority of the re- 
cruits from Scotland and England eat in the hot weather in India much more 
animal food than in the coldest seasons in their native countries. t 

It would therefore seem that illness may arise in India from excess of 
food, but it is not the regulation ration which produces it, but the additional 
purchased food, or the extreme idleness of the men, in which case even the 
regulation ration is too much. The only remedy is instruction of the men in 
what is good for them, and no men are so stupid as not to perceive what is 
best for their own comfort and happiness when it is once pointed out to them. 

In addition, the soldier in India had till very lately the spirit ration (now 
lessened to one-half), which has the effect of lessening the power of appropria- 
tion of food, though not always the appetite, and thus indirectly may cause 
over-feeding. 

The amount of fat in the regulation ration is, as at home, too small ; but 
the soldier buys butter and other milk, and takes more oily food. 

2. Admitting (till better observations are made) that men in the tropics, 
undergoing as much exertion as at home, will demand as much food, and in 
the same proportions, as far as the four classes of aliment are concerned (and 
it seems to me all physiological evidence shows that this must be the case, and 
that not external temperature, per se, but mechanical work, is the chief mea- 
sure of food), the next question is, whether the different articles of the diet 
should be altered ; whether, for example, the same amount of nitrogen being 
given, it should be contained in vegetable or animal food ? 

It has been stated by several of the best observers in the tropics that those 
who eat largely of animal food are less healthy than those who take more 
vegetable food ; and Friedel, in his work on China, has lately again directed 
attention to the fact^: that the amount of digestive and hepatic disease is much 
greater among the English than among any other European settlers in China. 
But whether this is owing to excessive animal food, or excess generally in all 
food, and to too much wine, beer, and spirits, is not certain. The diet is pro- 
bably too rich as a whole. 

Supposing meat is taken in proper but not excessive quantity with farina- 
ceous food, as at home, is it less healthy than a quantity of vegetable food 
containing an equivalent amount of nitrogen 1 On this point it seems to me 
that strict scientific evidence has not been produced. With regard to excess 
of animal food there is no doubt ; but animal food in moderation has not, I 
think, been shown to be more active in causing liver complaints in India than 
at home. 

* Memorandum on Rations of Troops, by Dr C. A. Gordon, C.B., (Sanitary Commissioner for 
Bengal). 

t Colonel Sykes long ago directed particular attention to this point, stating with perfect truth 
that the soldier in India is over-stimulated by food and drink, and under-stimulated by bodily 
and mental exercise. 

+ Already noticed as regards India and the Mauritius. 



INDIA. 583 

Considering, indeed, how important it is, when the digestive organs have 
been accustomed to one sort of diet, not to suddenly and completely change 
it, it seems to me very doubtful whether it would be desirable for the Euro- 
pean arriving in India at once to give up all previous habits, and to commence 
an entirely different kind of diet. 

It is possible, however, that the meat standard of England might be some- 
what reduced, and the bread, flour, and leguminosse increased. This is not 
the opinion, however, of some of those who have lately paid particular atten- 
tion to Indian rations (Dr C. A. Gordon and Dr Inglis*), and who believe 
that the amount of meat is even too small. Still the point is worthy of a 
careful trial, so that the question might be properly settled by the sole test of 
these matters, a sufficient experience. A certain number of men (one or two 
companies in a regiment) might be selected for these trials, and the state of 
health carefully noted. 

It has often been said that Europeans in India should imitate the natives 
in their food, but this opinion is based (it seems to me) on a misconcep- 
tion. The use of ages has accustomed the Hindu to the custom of taking 
large quantities of rice, with pulses or corn ; put an European on this diet, 
and he could not at first digest it ; the very bulk would be too much for him. 
The Hindu, with this diet, is obliged to take large quantities of condiments 
(peppers, &c.) The European who did the same would produce acute gastric 
catarrh and hepatic congestion in a very short time ; in fact, as already stated 
(p. 460), one great fault of the diet of Europeans arriving in India is too great 
use of this part of the native diet. 

Two points about the diet of India seem quite clear. One is, that spirits are 
most hurtful, and that even wine and beer must be taken in great moderation. 
Of the two beverages, light wines (clarets), which are now happily coming 
into use in India for the officers, are the best. Eor the men good beer should 
be provided, but it is important to teach the men moderation. The allowance 
per man per dieni should never be more than a quart, and men would find 
themselves healthier with a single pint per day. But it would seem probable 
that, especially in the hot stations and seasons, entire abstinence should bo 
the rule, and that infusions of tea and coffee are the best beverages, t 

The other point is, that in the tropics there is perhaps even a greater ten- 
dency to scurvy than at home ; the use of fruits, then, is of great importance, 
and whenever practicable, the growth of fruit trees should be encouraged in 
the neighbourhood of stations. In some stations (Mooltan) lime juice has 
been issued with the greatest benefit when vegetables were scarce. J 

Sir Hugh Rose has lately issued some good orders with regard to cooking, 
which will have the effect of improving considerably the preparation and the 
variety of food. 

Exercise in the Tropics. The amount of exercise should not be less than 
at home ; it must necessarily be taken at different hours, early morning and 
evening, in certain parts of India ; but when the time comes that the major 
part of the troops are quartered on the hills, exercise will be able to be taken 
as at home. And this, in fact, is one reason for hill stations. 

The hours during the extreme heat of the sun will be always avoided on 
the plains of India, though it is probable that idleness and inertia have done 
much more harm than a little exposure to the sun would have done. 

* Op. cit. and Army Medical Report, vol. v. p. 380. 

f* The drinks which the private soldier often buys in the bazaars in India are of the worst 
description ; arrack mixed with cayenne and other pungent substances, or fermenting toddy 
mixed with peppers and narcotics, or drugged beer, are common drinks. It would be easy to 
put a stop to this by legislative enactment. 

+ Dr C. A. Gordon Memorandum on Rations, 1865, p. 11. 



584 



FOKEIGN SERVICE. 



Health of the Troops. 

The chief statistics of the forces in India are contained in 

1. Numerous scattered papers in the various Indian medical periodicals for 
the last thirty years, referring chiefly to the health of one presidency or of 
regiments or forces occupying small districts. 

2. Summaries of the whole, by Colonel Sykes (for twenty years ending 1847, 
" Statistical Journal," vol. x.), Sir Kanald Martin (" Influence of Tropical 
Climates," 2d edition), Mr Ewart ("Vital Statistics of European and Native 
Armies," 1859), Drs Waring and Norman Chevers (" Indian Annals," 1858 
1862) ; and as far as officers and civilians are concerned, by Colonel Hender- 
son " Asiatic Eesearches," vol. xx.), and Mr Hugh Macpherson. 

3. Official documents, the most important of which are contained in the 
Indian Sanitary Report, and in the yearly Army Medical Reports since 1860. 
These last statistics, however, refer only to Queen's troops, until 1863. 

Loss of Strength of Europeans. 

1. By Death. From all these statistics it appears that the three presidencies 
differ in the amount of mortality. Bengal is the most unhealthy presidency, 
and Madras the least so. 

Mortality per 1000 of Europeans. 



AUTHORITIES. 


Bengal. 


Bombay. 


Madras. 


Sykes (20 years ending ) 


73-8 


50-7 


38-46 


1847), . . . j 








Ewart (42 years for Ben- ] 








gal, 50 Bombay, 30 V 


69-4 


55-2 " 


38-8 


Madras), . . .j 








Chevers (1845-1854), . 


63-38 


60-2 


59-2 


Sanitary Commission, (56 \ 








years, ending 1856, > 


74-1 


66 


63-5 


Company's Troops), . J 








Queen's Troops alone ) 
(Balfour, 1838-1856), / 


76-2 


60-2 


41-5 


Queen's Troops alone 
(Tulloch, 1817-1856),' 


79-2 


61-1 


62-9 


Queen's Troops alone 
(Balfour, 1860), 


39-37 


31-70 


22-63 


Queen's Troops alone ) 
(Balfour, 1861), . j 


45-57 


24-72 


15-83 


Queen's Troops alone i 
(Balfour, 1862), . J 


27-55 


24-6 


20-83 


All Troops (Balfour, ) 


26-26 


16-14 


22-11 


1863), . . . J 









These numbers are tolerably accordant 

All India. 
Per 1000 of Strength. 

Sir Alexander Tulloch (Queen's Troops, 1817-1855), . 70 
Sanitary Commission (Company's Troops, 1800-1856), . 69 
( 1847-1858), . 51-2 



INDIA. 585 

The mortality of the Company's Troops, distributed according to ages, is as 
follows (Sanitary Commissioner's Report, p. 539) : 

COr "l P 8 a ^8^ PS ' Queen, Troop, 
Per 1000 of Strength. 

1020, . . . 27-3 6-99 

2025, . . . 56-5 14-02 

2530, . . .49 18-92 

3035, ... 50 34-96 

3540, . . .50 39-32 

4045, . . . 5 

4550, . . . 5 OQ 

50-55, . . . 6 38 ' 

55 and upwards, . . 4 

The mortality augments, therefore, greatly with age and service, in a ratio 
much quicker than on home service. 

Effect of Residence in India. From the Sanitary Commissioners' numbers 
it is concluded that the mortality is highest in the first year of residence, then 
slightly declines, and becomes sensibly less in the fifth year ; from that time 
it rises slowly again. Entry into India in early life appears to give some 
advantage. 

During the periods referred to in the preceding tables, the mortality has 
greatly varied. In Bengal the deaths were highest in the quinquennial period, 
1812-1816, viz., 96-5 per 1000, and lowest in 1832-36, viz., 51'6 per 1000. 
In 1852, among the Company's Europeans, the deaths were only 41 -1 per 
1000 ; in 1829 they were 43-4 per 1000. 

In Bombay the greatest mortality was in the years 18191823, viz., 80 per 
1000, and least in 1849-1853, viz., 28'6 per 1000. In one year, 1855-56, 
there were only 10 deaths per 1000 of strength. The decrease has been sup- 
posed to be owing to better treatment, and not to improved sanitary conditions. 

The mortality just enumerated is the gross loss, including the deaths in war, 
by violence, suicides, &c. The effects of war are not easily distinguishable, 
as the consequences of an unhealthy campaign show themselves for some time 
afterwards. The present mortality in times of profound peace, and when the 
force is not under peculiarly unfavourable conditions, is probably represented 
pretty closely by the mean mortality in 1860-61-62-63, viz. : 

Present Mortality per 1000 of Strength. 

Bengal. Bombay. Madras. 

34-69 24-29 20-35 

The greater mortality in Bengal has been .usually ascribed to the greater 
prevalence of malaria, and to the effects of more frequent wars. On the 
whole, more frequent outbreaks of fever and cholera have probably been chief 
causes. 

Of late years the mortality in all India has lessened, while the admissions 
have remained the same. It is probable that this is owing to several causes : 

(a.) Better treatment, viz., especially a larger use of quinine in fevers and 
ipecacuanha in dysentery, and a lessened use of the terrible plan of giving 
mercury largely in hepatic and dysenteric affections. 

(5.) Earlier invaliding, and the effect of hill sanitaria, though the full use 
of these has not yet been brought out. 

The mortality not only differs in the three presidencies, but in different 



586 



FOltEIGN SERVICE. 



stations in the same presidency, and in different years in the same station. 
This is partly owing to occasional outbreaks of cholera. 

At some stations the mortality has been occasionally lower than at home ; 
in others more than twenty times as much. Thus, to take a few stations in 
the Bengal Presidency in 1861 : * 



Mortality per 1000 of Strength. 



6-35 

8-18 

124-05 

35275 



Dugshai (Himalaya hill station), . 

Eawul Pindee (Punjab), .... 

Umritsir, . . . .. 

Mean Meer (Punjab), cholera, 

These astonishing differences are the measure of the sanitary work which 
has to be done. 

Ranald Martin gives a table with the admissions and deaths in the chief 
European stations during the years 1838-56, which will be useful as showing 
the usual mortality at that time. The numbers at the stations with only 
two or three years' returns must be held to be doubtful. 

Abstract showing the Sickness and Mortality of the Troops of the Line at the 
under-mentioned Stations of the Indian Presidencies, as nearly as can be 
ascertained from the Annual Sanitary Reports forwarded to the War 
.Office from 1838 to 1856 inclusive. 



STATIONS. 


Period of 

Observation. 


Ratio per 1000 of 


Years. 


Admissions. 


Deaths. 


BENGAL. 








Fort William, . 


7 


1652 


58-08 


Chinsurah, 


2 


2601 


69-96 


Dinapore, 


13 


1847 


82-73 


Ghazeepore, 


5 


1878 


91-94 


Cawnpore, 


10 


2278 


88-90 


Agra, .... 


8 


2365 


60-71 


Meerut, .... 


14 


1690 


44-03 


Kurnaul, .... 


5 


2344 


78-04 


Hazareebaugh, . 


2 


1622 


34-15 


Allahabad, 


2 


2479 


115-14 


Loodianah, 


2 


2259 


127-10 


Umballah, 


10 


1497 


61-71 


Kussowlie, 


7 


1222 


49-01 


Ferozepore, 


5 


1759 


55-12 


Jullundur, 


5 


1727 


37-44 


Lahore, .... 


7 


2848 


90-40 


Eawul Pindee, . 


4 


1868 


43-46 


Peshawur, 


5 


3225 


71-86 


Wuzeerabad, 


4 


1660 


59-22 


Dugshai, .... 


3 


1423 


26-36 


Subathoo, 


3 


1630 


31-02 



* Balfour Army Medical Report for 1861, p. 112. 



INDIA. 587 

Abstract showing Sickness and Mortality of the Troops, fyc. continued. 



STATIONS. 


Period of 
Observation. 


Ratio per 1000 of 


Years. 


Admissions. 


Deaths. 


MADRAS. 








Fort George, 


16 


1754 


28-93 


Cannanore, 


17 


1611 


31-65 


Trichinopoly, . 


11 


1913 


31-07 


Secunderabad, . 


8 


1716 


56-78 


Bangalore, 


17 


1402 


24-39 


Kamptee, 


7 


2068 


47-72 


Tenasserim Provinces, 


9 


1770 


33-00 


Bellary, .... 


7 


1939 


48-60 


BOMBAY. 








Colabah and Bombay, 


7 


2165 


60-73 


Poonah, .... 


13 


2089 


33-01 


Belgaum, .... 


10 


1644 


41-27 


Deesa, .... 


7 


1641 


33-45 


Kirkee, .... 


14 


1886 


25-63 


Kurrachee, 


12 


1907 


47-14 


Ahmednugger, . 


3 


2396 


57-19 


Hyderabad, 


4 


2495 


42-43 


Aden, .... 


8 


1239 


43-64 



Composition of the Force influencing Mortality. 

The mortality among officers is always less than among men. 

In +he years 181433, the yearly mortality of officers of the East India Com- 
pany's armies was 38 per 1000 ; in these twenty years, 3194 deaths occurred out 
of 4219 officers. The yearly mortality among the officers of the royal army 
serving in India during the same period was 34 per 1000, or 742 deaths out of 
1079 officers. In all, 3936 officers died, whereas in England the deaths of the 
same class would have been 1060. There was, therefore, in twenty years, an 
excess of 2876 deaths, of which 122 only occurred in action or from wounds.* 
Macpherson determined the rate of deaths of officers in Bengal for eight years 
(1846-1854). The deaths were 21'2 per 1000 ; the ratio among the soldiers 
being 56-2 per 1000 for the same period. 

No later returns have been made ; but it is probable Macpherson's numbers 
are not far from the present amount. However much the officer suffers in 
comparison with England, he has less than half the mortality of the men. 
The causes of mortality of officers have not yet been fully made out. Fevers 
and dysenteries hold the chief rank, but as a class there is much less cholera 
and dysentery among the officers than among the men. 

The mortality of non-commissioned officers is also less than that of the men, 
and this has sometimes been very marked in cholera epidemics. The exact 
amount is, however, not known. 

Married men show a less mortality than single men, especially from 



* Indian Sanitary Report, p. 19. 



588 



FOREIGN SERVICE. 



dysentery and liver disease. It can scarcely be doubted that this is chiefly 
owing to the better cooking of food by their wives. 

Of the different arms, the engineers and artillery are the healthiest ; then 
generally the cavalry, and lastly the infantry. 

Causes of Mortality among Europeans. 

There are four diseases, or rather groups of diseases, which are the chief 
causes of mortality, viz. : 

Fevers, paroxysmal and continued. 

Cholera. 

Bowel complaints, especially dysentery. 

Liver diseases. 

The mortality by all diseases in every hundred deaths of Europeans serving 
in the Presidency of Bombay, between 1830 and 1846, was as follows : * 

Dysentery, 28 -5 2 7 

Fevers, 23'054 

Cholera, ....... 10 '320 

Hepatic diseases, 9 '59 7 

Diarrhoea, 3'9U 

Pulmonary diseases, 5 '807 

Other diseases, 18-697 

Lost in calculation, -084 



Total, .... 100-000 

If we take the returns of 1860, 1861, 1862, and 1863, as representing the 
present causes of mortality in hospitals in India, we find them to be as 
follows : 

Deaths per 1000 of Strength. 





Bengal. 


Bombay. 


Madras. 




1860. 


1861. 


1862 


1863. 


1860. 


1861. 


1862. 


1863. 


1860. 


1861. 


1862. 


1863. 


Eruptive fevers, . 


40 


85 


05 


23 


26 


45 


17 


16 




09 


08 




Paroxysmal fevers, 


2-76 


1-97 


1-86 


2-16 


2-63 


1-92 


2-11 


97 


1-4*6 


56 


56 


32 


Continued fevers, 


2-10 


2-29 


1-47 


1-10 


2-9< 


90 


V18 


40 


1-18 


65 


64 


1*27 


Dysentery and diarrhoea, 
Cholera, 


5-92 
12-46 


5-28 
23-48 


3-31 
8-21 


3-64 
3-69 


4-13 
9-22 


5-64 
3-95 


4-38 
4-63 


2-11 
65 


2-10 
3-37 


2-42 
2-7 


1-91 
3-67 


2-38 
3-72 


Tubercular diseases'!" ) 
(phthisis and haemoptysis) j 
Pneumonia, f 


2-57 
47 


1-89 

72 


1-75 

38 


2-16 
42 


1-58 



1.24 
33 


1-01 
33 


1-05 
24 


2-19 
17 


0-74 

28 


1-43 
16 


1-58 

08 


Acute bronchitis, i 1 


28 


34 


25 


19 


37 




5 




43 


19 


16 


24 


Diseases of nervous system, f 


3-49 


1-75 


1-63 


1-76 


1-66 


1-35 


1-35 


97 


1-31 


84 


2-39 


1-26 


Hepatitis ) (acute and ) 
chronic) and icterus, . J 


3-75 


2-74 


2-97 


3-26 


2.72 


3-49 


2-69 


2-84 


3-27 


2-70 


2-79 


3-01 


Violent and suicidal deaths ) 
(not executions), f- . . J 


61 


80 


1-39 


2-60 


2-11 


1-69 


2-1 


1-45 


1-02 


1-30 


1-5 


2-61 



Taking the average of the four years, and calculating the percentage of 
each of these causes of deaths, we find the table shows at a glance the im- 
portant differences in mortality in the three presidencies ; in Bengal and 
Bombay malarious fevers are in greater excess than in Madras ; so with 

* Sir Ranald Martin Tropical Climates, p. 94. 

f These numbers are all calculated from the returns in the Appendix to Dr Balfour's Report, 
and do not include the deaths among invalids on passage to England, [n 1863, the return for 
Bombay does not distinguish between acute and chronic bronchitis, so it has been omitted. 



INDIA. 



589 



" continued fevers," which in all presidencies cause a good deal of mortality. 
Dysentery is most fatal in Bengal, then in Bombay, and then in Madras. 
Cholera in the same order, being nearly fourfold as fatal in Bengal as Madras. 
Diseases of the nervous system are also more fatal in Bengal. 

With regard to tuberculosis (phthisis and haemoptysis), it would seem that 
more men die, in proportion to strength, in the hospitals in India, than in 
Canada (see page 552) ; and in respect of pneumonia (which is rather more 
frequent in Bengal), it would seem that, taking the mean of the four years 
(1861-63) in Bengal, the deaths from pneumonia are '497 ; in Bombay -225 ; 
in Madras '172 per 1000 of strength; in England, the mean of five years 
(1859-63) is -537, and in Canada -831. It is singular how closely Bengal 
approaches to England in this respect ; in Bombay and Madras the prevalence 
is less. 

It is at once seen how great a diminution of mortality there would be, if 
cholera and dysentery could be prevented ; and that the prevention is no idle 
dream, must surely be admitted, after what has been said in the chapter on 
the PREVENTION OF DISEASE. 

But there are two headings in the table which seem to demand from 
Indian officers a more thorough investigation. What are those fatal diseases 
which appear as paroxysmal and continued fevers ? The only fatal malarious 
fevers are the intense remittents, from which troops only suffer in special 
localities; during a service of two and a-half years in Burmah, where 
malarious fever was extremely common, I only saw five cases of malig- 
nant remittent, of which three were fatal. As a rule, however deeply 
malarious fever invades the constitution, and however obstinately it clings to 
it, it is not, in the first instance, a fatal disease ; witness the slight mortality 
in the most malarious country of all our foreign possessions, Demerara. 
What, then, are the forms of those paroxysmal fevers, which every year kill 
two or three men in every 1000 1 If they are malignant remittent, there 
must be great and unnecessary exposure at some points. 

So also with the return of " continued fever;" is this also a severe mala- 
rious fever, or typhoid or relapsing fever, both of which occur in India ? A 
complete analysis of the meaning of this heading would be most important. 

The mortality from diseases of the nervous system is in part dependent on 
insolatio and delirium, tremens, and probably will be lessened in years to 
come. 

2. By Invaliding. The numbers invalided are not known with any ac- 
curacy for a long term of years. 

Discharged per 1000 of Strength. 





Cavalry and Infantry. 




YEARS. 




Royal Artillery. 
All India. 










Bengal. 


Bombay. 


Madras. 




1860, 


7-46 


20-42 


8-27 


9-96 


1861, 


9-80 


43-65 


9-84 


15-01 


1862, 


15-32 


34-52 


19-88 


18-83 


1863, 


18-16 


33-01 


14-74 





The great causes of discharge are eye diseases, pulmonary diseases, mental 
diseases, rheumatism, dysentery, and hepatic disease. 



590 



FOREIGN SERVICE. 



Mortality of Native Troops* 

Colonel Sykes gives the mortality for 1825-44 as 18 per 1000 of strength 
for all India, and for Bengal, 17 "9 ; Bombay, 12 -9 ; Madras, 20-95. 

In Madras, from 1842 to 1858, the average was 18 per 1000 (Macpherson), 
of which 6 per 1000 each year were deaths from cholera. 

Ewart gives the following numbers (p. 36), per 1000 of strength Bengal 
(1826-1852), 13-9 ; Bombay (1803-1854), 15 -8 ; Madras (1827-1852), 17'5. 

Taking successive quinquennial periods, there has been a slight progressive 
decrease in mortality, but this is less marked than in Europeans. 

The excess of mortality is chiefly due to cholera, dysentery, and fever. 

Loss of Service of Europeans (Queen's Troops). 
Admissions per 1000 of Strength. 





Bengal. 


Bombay. 


Madras. 


Admissions, 1838-1856, 


2047 


2117 


1741 


1860, 


2023 


1933 


1487 


1861, 


1954 


1756 


1254 


1863, 


1759 


1591 


1255 


Mean daily sick, 1860, 


74-89 


66-21 


62-97 


1861, 


80-27 


73-02 


57-64 


1862, 


... 


69-5 


61-77 


1863, 


61-89 


64-16 


63-62 


Mean duration of ) 
cases in days, 1860, / 


13-51 


12-50 


15-55 


.Mean duration of ) 
cases in days, 1861, J 


14-99 


15-09 


16-77 


Mean duration of ) 
cases in days, 1862, J 


... 


13-95 


17-42 


Mean duration of ) 
cases in days, 1863, J 


12-84 


14-72 


18-51 



In 1860, a number equal to three regiments in Bengal, and one regiment in 
each of the other two presidencies, was constantly sick. 

The table (p. 591) gives a view of the chief causes of admissions during 
the last years of which we have the returns, and it is probable that the 
diagnoses are more certain than in the tables of any former years. 

It shows that the diseases of England, pneumonia, bronchitis, pleurisy, &c., 
are by no means rare in India ; and, indeed, I feel pretty sure a more accurate 
diagnosis will raise the figure. But the chief causes of admissions are par- 
oxysmal fevers, " continued fevers," dysentery, digestive diseases (exclusive of 
hepatitis and dysentery), venereal, integumentary diseases, and rheumatism. 
Hepatitis causes few admissions, but much loss of service. Cholera gives few 
admissions, but a great mortality. 

Tuberculosis is by no means absent, and gives, in fact, more admissions 
than in the West Indies. 

With regard to the prevention of these several diseases, enough has been 

* Owing to the want of accurate census returns, it is very difficult to know the loss among 
the Indian civil population. In Calcutta, where the number of inhabitants is pretty well 
known, the yearly mortality in eleven years fluctuated from 37 to 81 per 1000 ; the mean being 
51 per 1000. The Hindus were less healthy than the Mussulmans. At Delhi, the yearly rate 
lias been placed at 36 per 1000. 



INDIA. 



591 



said in the chapter on the PREVENTION OP DISEASE, and in the present section. 
There is no doubt that much may be done, and probably the sickness and 
mortality will be reduced, if hill stations are used, to the same ratio as in the 
West Indies. 

It is most satisfactory to find that the sickness and mortality are both rapidly 
falling, owing to the energetic means now being adopted by the Government^ 
and to the increased sanitary powers and improved curative means of the 
medical officers. 

The prevalence of venereal disease demands as much attention in India as 
in England, but the preventive measures will be much easier. Police regula- 
tions and proper surveillance will be more readily enforced, and a larger num- 
ber of men can be permitted to marry. At present twelve men per company 
are allowed to marry, and it has been supposed by military officers that 25 
per cent, could be so allowed. This is much to be desired ; but if it be done, 
the Government must face certain results ; proper quarters must be provided, 
and places for disposal of the women in times of service. It is also very 
desirable, for married men, not to move regiments too frequently ; and if the 
plan of giving a regiment two years' service in the hills and one on the plains 
be adopted, it will put the married people to great expense. Probably it will 
be found that a longer hill service can be given without injury. 

Another result can be foreseen : if the term of Indian service be shortened 
to ten years, it will be a great inconvenience to the married men to return 
home, and it is quite clear that a very great number of them will constantly 
volunteer to remain. This is indeed, perhaps, desirable, as keeping steady 
married men who know the sort of life in India ; but it is not the result con- 
templated by the plan of frequent reliefs. 

Taking the mean of the years 1860, 1861, 1862, and 1863, as probably 
giving us more trustworthy numbers than earlier periods, we find the follow- 
ing to be the chief causes of admissions : 

European Troops (Annual Average Admissions per 1000 of Strength). 





Bengal. 


Bombay. 


Madras. 


DISEASES. 


1860-63 
(4 years). 


1860-63 
(4 years). 


1860-63 
(4 years). 


Paroxysmal Fevers, 
Continued Fevers, . . 
Dysentery and Diarrhoea, . 


536- 
178-27 
145-1 
19-77 


566-27 
122-55 
143-92 

7-22 


174-9 
84-62 ' 
151-12 
7-62 


Acute Hepatitis, . . . 
Chronic Hepatitis, . 
Tubercular (Phthisis and I 
Haemoptysis), . . . j 
Bronchitis ( Acute & Chronic), 
Pneumonia, 


34-82* ) 

25-68* } 

10-02 

44-73 
3-13 


49-21 

7-99 

43-29 
1-99 


/ 39-77 
\ 22-97 

14-05 

37-44 
1-59 


Pleurisy, 


3-74 


2-17 


2-46 


Digestive (Non-Dysenteric), 
Enthetic (Venereal), . . 
Ophthalmia, 
Kheumatism, .... 
Integumentary, .... 


122-91 
324 
63-65 
75-1 
104 


113-59 
305-17 
53-27 
65-55 
104-75 


108-6 
264-1 
55 
63-6 
107-3 



Mean of three years. 



592 FOREIGN SERVICE. 



Arrival in India^ 

The proper time for arrival is at the end of October or beginning of 
November. It appears to be an almost invariable rule that soldiers on dis- 
embarkation in India show a large sick list during the first three or four 
months. They frequently land in robust health they have been well fed 
during the voyage, and have had little exercise, and are often, indeed, too 
plethoric. The excitement of landing, the new scenes, the welcome, and too 
great hospitality of comrades, the exercise under unusual conditions of heat, 
the altered diet, all act unfavourably, and their own excesses add to the evil. 
As they usually land at the presidencies, they are at once exposed to the in- 
fluences of these towns, and may suffer very soon from cholera, or malarious 
fever. In addition to what has been advised elsewhere (p. 602), it is of great 
importance to fully carry out a measure already commenced by the Govern- 
ment,* viz., not to keep the men longer than absolutely necessary at the pre- 
sidencies (not for a day if possible), but to move them inland. If it were 
made a rule to send every fresh corps at once to the hills for two years after 
landing, it would probably be the means of saving many lives, One difficulty 
is that the best hill stations are a long way from the sea-ports, but the rail- 
ways have somewhat lessened that objection. 

The advantages of the hills are, not merely the avoidance of malaria, and 
the excessive high temperature of sea-level or inland plains, but the fact 
that exercise can be. taken freely in a temperature not very different from 
England. "Would it not be possible to use the fine station of Newera Ellia or 
Horton in Ceylon as a station of transit for Bengal ? Madras can use the table- 
land of the Deccan or the Neilgherry Hills, and Bombay has its stations on 
the Ghauts. 

One more point will require attention in India, and that is the health of 
the women and children. There has always been a very large mortality of 
children, and at certain stations of women. For them the transference to the 
hills is the most important preventive measure, and probably nothing else will 
do more than slightly lessen the great yearly loss of children. 

SECTION IX. 
CHINA. 

HONG-KONG. 

Although the English have occupied Canton, Tientsin in the north, and 
several other places, yet, as their occupation has been only temporary, it seems 
unnecessary to describe any other station than Hong-Kong. 

Garrison of Hong-Kong about 1000 to 1500, but differing considerably ac- 
cording to the state of affairs in China. 

The island is 27 miles in circumference, 10 long, and 8 broad at its widest 
part. 

Geology. The hills are for the most part of granite and syenite, more or 
less weathered. In some parts it is disintegrated to a great extent, and clayey 
beds (laterite) are formed, in which granite boulders may be embedded. 
Yictoria, the chief town, stands on this disintegrated granite. As in all other 
cases, this weathered and clayey granite is said to be very absorbent of water, 
and, especially in the wet season, is considered very unhealthy. 

* Especially by the Bengal Government since 1856 ; the men are sent on arrival toDum-Dum 
or Chinsurah, and are then sent to the north-west as soon as conveyance can be found. 



CHINA. 593 

Climate. Mean annual temperature, 73 Fahr. ; hottest month (July), 
86 C> 25 ; coldest month (January), 52'75 ; amplitude of the yearly fluctu- 
ations, 33-5. 

The humidity is considerable, about 10 grains in a cubic foot of air in July, 
and four in January. 

The IST.E. monsoon blows from November to April ; it is cold, dry, and is 
usually considered healthy and bracing; but if persons who have suffered 
from malaria are much exposed to it, it reinduces the paroxysm. The S.W. 
monsoon blows from May to October ; it is hot and damp, and is considered 
enervating and relaxing. The difference in the thermometer between the two 
monsoons has been said to be as much as 46, but this seems excessive. 

The rainfall is about 90 inches with the S.W. monsoon. 

In addition to Victoria, there are two or three other stations which have 
been occupied as sanitaria, viz., Stanley, seated on a peninsula on the south 
end of the island, and about 100 feet above the sea ; and Sari van, 5 miles 
east of Victoria. Neither station seems to have answered ; the barracks are 
very bad at Stanley, and are exposed too much to the N.E. monsoon, which, 
at certain times, is cold and wintry ; during the S.W. monsoon it is healthy. 
Sarivan has always been unhealthy, probably from the neighbourhood of rice 
fields. Since the close of the last war a portion of the mainland, Cowloon, 
opposite Victoria, has been ceded, and has been occupied by troops. It is said 
not to be, however, even so healthy as Hong-Kong,* but there are differences 
of opinion on this point. 

Hong-Kong has never, it is said, been considered healthy by the Chinese. 
The chief causes of unhealthiness appear to be the moist laterite and weathered 
granite, and the numerous rice fields. Indeed, to the latter cause is ascribed 
by some (Smart)t the great unhealthiness, especially when the rice fields are 
drying in October, November, and December. 

Local causes of unhealthiness existed till very lately in Victoria. In build- 
ing the barracks the felspar clay was too much cut into, and, in addition, the 
access of air was impeded by the proximity of the hills. The S.W. monsoon 
was entirely shut out. Till lately sewerage was very defective. 

Owing probably to these climatic and local causes, for many years after its 
occupation in 1842, Hong-Kong was excessively unhealthy. Malarious fevers 
were extremely common, and not only so, but it is now known that typhoid 
fever has always prevailed there (Becher and Smart). Dysentery has been 
extremely severe, and has assumed the peculiar form of lientery. This was 
noticed in the first China war, and appears, more or less, to have con- 
tinued since. In addition to these diseases, phthisis appears to have been 
frequent. 

There have been of late years such frequent wars in China, that the exact 
amount of sickness and mortality, due to the climate of Hong-Kong, cannot 
be well determined. But it is becoming much healthier than in former years, 
owing to the gradual improvement in sanitary matters which goes on from 
year to year. In 1865 there was, however, much sickness, owing apparently 
to overcrowding, and to bad accommodation. 

In the Statistical Keports, the troops serving in Hong-Kong, Cowloon, 
Canton, and Shanghai, are classed together, so that the influence of Hong- 
Kong per se cannot be known. 

In the years 1859-62, which include years of war, the admissions in South 

* See Report of Surgeon Snell, "Army Medical Report," vol. v. p. 360, for the causes of 
the unhealthiness of Cowloon. 

f " Transactions of the Epid. Soc.," vol. ii. 'This paper should be consulted for an excellent 
account of Hong-Kong, and of the diseases among sailors especially. 

2 P 



594 FOREIGN SERVICE. 

China averaged 2340, and the deaths 35-49, or, exclusive of violent deaths, 
33 '35 per 1000 of strength, and there was in addition a large invaliding. In 
the last-named year (1862) the admissions were 1781, and the deaths (acci- 
dents excluded) 23 '7 per 1000 of strength. In 1863 the admissions in the 
stations in South China (Hong-Kong and Cowloon), were at the rate of 2637, 
and the deaths were 39'03 per 1000 of strength, or, excluding violent deaths, 
35-74 per 1000. Paroxysmal fevers gave 671 4 admissions and 2-49 deaths ; 
continued fevers 374 admissions and 2*49 deaths ; and dysentery and diarrhea 
208'8 admissions and 10*81 deaths per 1000. It is therefore evident that 
there must be a vast amount of preventible sickness still to be got rid of. 



SECTION X. 
AUSTEALIA AND NEW ZEALAND. 

Australia. It seems unnecessary to describe the climate of Australia. 
The number of troops stationed in Australia (New South Wales, Victoria, 
Adelaide, and Western Australia) and Tasmania is now small; in 1862 it 
averaged only 1000 for all the stations. During the years 1859-62 there 
were in Australia and Tasmania 726 admissions and 15*51 deaths, or, without 
violent deaths, 14*03 deaths per 1000. 

These countries at present are known to be very healthy ; this arises in 
part from the absence or great infrequency of malaria ; the exanthemata also 
are less common and virulent, and phthisis among the civilians is supposed to 
be infrequent. 

Among the troops the chief admissions in 1862 were, in the order of fre- 
quency 



Contusio, . . 68 per 1000 

Gonorrhoea, . 67 

Kheumatic, . 49 

.Diarrhoea, . 37 ,, 

Phlegmon, . 32 



Influenza, . 29 per 1000 

Drunkenness, . 26 ,, 

Dyspepsia, . 24 

Phthisis, . 20 

Abscesses, . 16 ,, 



and other smaller items, no disease being of any gravity. In 1863 there were 
27*9 admissions and 2*54 deaths from "continued fever." 

It only requires a glance at these figures to show not only the healthiness 
of Australia, but that a little individual management and good conduct would 
remove much of this sickness. There is only one formidable entry, viz., 20 
cases of phthisis. Of 17 deaths from disease in 1862, phthisis caused 7, or 41 
per cent., of the total deaths from disease. In 1861 it caused 13*2 admissions, 
and 1-1 death per 1000. In 1860 it caused 8*3 admissions, and 3*7 deaths 
per 1000 ; the average of the three years being 3*7 per 1000 living, exclusive 
of invaliding. In 1862, 46 per 1000 were recommended for discharge, and 
of these 7 were tuberculous, so that in that year there was a loss from phthisis, 
per 1000 of strength, by death, 7; by invaliding, 7; total, 14. This is 
nearly as much as at home, and so far does not seem to bear out the general 
impression of the absence of phthisis in Australia. The number of years of 
observation is, however, small ; and the number of cases in 1862 was evidently 
unusual. In 1863 there were 6 deaths from phthisis and haemoptysis out of 
a total of 14, or 7*64 per 1000 of strength; of 100 deaths, tubercular diseases 
caused 42 '8. In addition, 5 invalids were sent home with scrofula and phthisis, 
or at the rate of 6*34 per 1000 of strength. The total loss from phthisis, 
haemoptysis, and scrofula, was 13*9 8 -per 1000 of strength. This experience 
accords with that of 1862, and so far the Australian climate or mode of life 



AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND. 595 

does not seem very favourable in phthisis. Still, the period of observation 
is too limited for a safe conclusion. 

New Zealand. The frequent wars in New Zealand render it rather difficult 
to judge of the effect of the colony on the health of the troops. It has always 
been considered healthy. In the years 1859-62, there were (men killed in 
action and other violent deaths being deducted) only 595 admissions and 7 '41 
deaths per 1000 of strength. In 1862, one regiment (65th) had only 4-78 
deaths per 1000 from all causes, an almost unexampled degree of health. In 
1863 there were 22'49 deaths per 1000, but 12'46 were in battle, and 277 
were also other violent deaths, so that the total from disease was only 7*26 
per 1000 ; of these tubercular diseases give 1*73 per 1000. In spite of the 
hardships of eight months' war, the admissions were only 568.7 per 1000 ; the 
ratio constantly sick was only 30 '2 8 per 1000, an extremely small amount for 
a period of war. 

Tubercular diseases cause a mortality of 2 per 1000, including the deaths of 
invalids on the passage home. 

Among the diseases causing admissions, ophthalmia, bronchitis acuta, 
phlegmon, and abscess, diarrhoea, acute and chronic rheumatism, and " con- 
tinued fever," give the greatest number of admissions. The latter is probably 
febricula, as in 1862, among 114 cases, there was not a single death. 



CHAPTEE IV. 
SERVICE ON BOARD SHIP.* 

SERVICE on board ship must be divided into three sections, corresponding to 
three different kinds of service. 

1. Transport ships, for the conveyance of healthy soldiers, their wives and 
children, from place to place, or for conveying small parties of troops in charge 
of convicts. 

2. Transports for conveyance of sick from an army in the field to an hospital 
in rear, or from a foreign station to a sanitarium, or home. Although the 
term is a little odd, it is convenient to call these ships Sick Transports. 

3. Hospital ships, intended for the reception and treatment of the sick. 

SECTION I. 
TRANSPORTS FOR HEALTHY TROOPS. 

At present Government employs a few steam- vessels of its own which convey 
troops, but the greater part of the transport is carried on by vessels hired at 
the time. This plan has been much objected to, and as strongly defended. 
The plan by Government transports is said to be cheaper, and to have the 
advantage of vessels specially prepared for the service. Considering the great 
and constant transport which is now necessary, it is difficult to believe that 
this plan would not be better in all ways.t At present, however, merchant 
ships which happen to be disengaged are hired for the voyage. They are 
inspected by Government officers, and such alterations as are necessary are 
made in them. Before troops are permitted to embark, they are carefully 
inspected Toy the principal medical officer and the medical officer in charge, 
and any man with any disease which may prove injurious during the voyage 
is kept back. Every man is therefore supposed to embark in perfect health 
("Queen's Regulations." Embarkation of Troops.) 

* In writing this chapter, I have made use of Dr Wilson's work on "Transports," of Dr 
Kirwan's " Despatch of Troops by Sea/' and of Dr Charles Gordon's " System of Sea Transport 
for Troops." I have also had the" advantage of reading a lecture given by Dr Fyffe at the Army 
Medical School, and a MS. essay on Transports, by Dr Davidson of the Army Medical School. 
I have also been allowed to read some sets of regulations for the management of troops at sea, 
drawn up by officers in command for their own use, and must especially refer to one excellent 
set of rules drawn up by Major Macpherson, 24th Regiment. 

t 1 Could not some of the old wooden ships, now useless and rotting in the Medway or other 
ports, be used for this purpose ? Their crews, being men-of-war sailors, would add to the strength 
of the navy, and in time of war, when transports would be less wanted, might return to the 
armed men-of-war. The great advantages which would result from the use of Government 
transports have been very well and forcibly put by Dr Kirwan (see "Despatch of Troops by 
Sea," pages 6-12). 



REGULATIONS FOR TRANSPORTS. 597 

Regulations for Transport*. 

At page 84 of the " Medical Eegulations," the principal medical officer at 
the port of embarkation is ordered to inspect the ship, and to ascertain the 
tonnage per man;* the height between decks; the cubic space, superficial 
area, and means of ventilation ; the cleanliness of the ship, bilge, and water- 
closets; that there is sufficient chloride of zinc, and a fumigating apparatus on 
board ; that stoves are provided ; that cots, bedding, utensils, and cooking 
arrangements are sufficient ; and that the stoves, water, and medical comforts 
are good and sufficient. 

In the Queen's Eegulations (p. 319, et seq., of the pocket edition) the 
"Duties on Board Ship" are very explicitly stated. This chapter should be 
very carefully read over, and constantly referred to. As it would be impos- 
sible to put in these long directions here, I shall assume that every officer 
thoroughly knows these regulations. A scheme of diet is ordered (p. 331, 
pocket edition,t also Medical Eegulations, p. 200, for India), additional 
clothing is given, viz., a canvas tunic or blouse. 

Inspection of Transports at the Port of Embarkation. The Assistant- 
Quartermaster-General and the Principal Medical Officer make an inspection 
of all hired transports, as already stated. It is of importance that the medical 
officer who is to be in charge of the troops should be present, and this should 
be ordered whenever it can be done; occasionally, however, the medical officer 
may be with his regiment, and does not see the ship till the men are actually 
embarking. 

The inspection of the ship should be conducted like that of a barrack. A 
ship is, in fact, a floating barrack. 

1. Amount of Space. The measurements on board ship are not always easy, 
but by attention to the rules at page 132, the various irregular spaces will be 
determined. No special amount of superficial or cubic space is ordered; this is 
determined by the tonnage (1 man to 2*7 tons), but this plan is not a good one. 
The loftier the space between decks and the greater the cubic space the better. 

2. Ventilation. Most hired transports have no means of ventilation except 
opposite ports (which are often obliged to be closed), hatches, and windsails. 
Windsails are large tubes made of sailcloth closed above, but having on one 
side a large open mouth or slit. The windsail is tied to a yard or rope, the 
upper part being some four or six feet above the deck, and the lower open 
end passing down between decks. The open mouth is turned towards the 
wind, which then blows down the tube. A great deal of air enters in this 
way, but it is often badly distributed. The best plan is to close the lower 
end and to have several lateral openings at different heights (Davidson), and 
in all directions ; it would be well, also, to have the upper of these lateral 
openings rather smaller than the lower, as the wind will blow more forcibly 
through the upper holes. Another very good plan is to make the windsail 
long enough to be carried some way between decks, and not merely, as usual, 
open at the bottom of the hatches ; openings can then be made at intervals 
in it. Any curves in a windsail should be large, so as to avoid choking, or 
the calibre should be held open with hoops at this point. The air should be 
let in near the lower deck, and as far as possible from the outlets. 

If a ship has open stern ports, this is a great advantage, but generally there 
are cabins, or cargo, which block the stern ports from the between-deck. 

* The Queen's Regulations order 270 tons (new measurement) for 100 men. 

f I believe it is not unlikely that some alteration may be made soon in the diet of troops at 
sea, especially of those bound to India. I have therefore not made any remarks on the diet 
scales given in the Queen's and Medical Regulations (p. 331 and p. 200 respectively). 



598 SERVICE ON BOARD SHIP. 

Hatches are always very uncertain means of ventilation ; they are also 
obliged to be closed during stormy weather in fact, at the time when most of 
the men are below, and when the ventilation is Avorst. In bad weather, Dr 
Davidson suggests the following arrangement : Suspend a spar a few feet 
above the main hatch, and let a tarpaulin fold over it like a tent ; this can 
often be kept open at one side, or at both for a time, and closed at once if 
necessary. In very severe weather, of course, this will not answer. In the 
smaller hatches a frame of wood or rope can easily be arranged, which the 
tarpaulin can cover. 

But with all care the ventilation between decks is never good with hatches 
and windsails merely, when the ports are closed. Let any one visit a troop- 
ship about three hours after the men are in bed, or even a man-of-war : the air 
is excessively foetid, very moist, extremely hot, the temperature above the men's 
heads being sometimes, it is said, 6 or 8 higher than below ; and those who 
go in from the pure air can hardly bear the odour.* The movement of air is 
extremely small when the ports are closed. At the hatches the hot air gets 
suddenly cooled, and its ascent is checked. Usually, however, a double cur 
rent is established in the hatchway, but this is not nearly sufficient. 

Other plans must be adopted. Dr Edmond's plan of ventilation is now 
used in all the emigrant ships, and is being adopted in the Royal Navy. In 
the case of a steamer, the space round the funnel is encased, and serves as an 
outlet, or the funnel itself is used; the spaces between the timbers and between- 
decks are all brought into connection, and the air is led from them by shafts 
to the central shaft. By this plan, the bilge and hold, as well as the between- 
decks, are purified (see page 124). If the vessel be not a steamer, there is a 
stern or central shaft, up which there is, I believe, always a good current. 

One argument for Government transports is the possibility of having a good 
system of this kind ready arranged. 

If the hired transport is not thus ventilated, tubes must be arranged at 
different points leading to the between-decks. Sometimes two tubes (one 
at each side) have been placed at the fore and two at the after part of the 
ship ; according to the wind, two are outlets and two inlets ; there may be a 
strong current, but the respired air in this way is obliged to pass over a num- 
ber of persons. It would seem better to fix several tubes along the sides or 
centre, to cover them with cowls turning to or from the wind, so as thus to 
have a certain number of inlets and outlets. If it can be done, a narrow 
central opening along part of the deck, with a low plank at either side to 
keep out water, and covered by a louver, is a very good plan, and is a very 
efficient outlet, 

M'Kinnell's double tube has been used and well reported upon by some ; 
by others it has not been found so useful. It seems, in fact, better to make use 
of the wind, on which we can always depend. The hold should be ventilated 
with tubes as well as the between-decks. If there be cargo, this is very 
important. 

The exact size and number of the tubes has not yet been experimentally 
determined ; probably, as there is a good deal of wind, these need not be so 
large as in houses on shore, but it is always best to have plenty of them. If 
necessary, some can be closed. Perhaps a tube of eight inches diameter would 
do for ten persons, giving five inches to each for inlet and outlet. Of course, 
hatches, windsails, ports, and tubes should all be in action at the same time. 

Tubes running to and feeding the fires (Sutton's plan) can be used. (See 
page 123.) 

* The eftect of this bad ventilation on the sailors of the Royal and Merchant Services is very 
serious. See especially Gavin Milroy's paper before referred to. 



TRANSPORTS. 599 

Arnott's pump (page 128) is said to be a most useful plan; the ends of 
the pump, where the fresh air is to flow in, are connected by canvas tubes 
with the open air, and the discharge outlets are left open, or, if desired, can 
be connected with a canvas or wooden tube, so that the air may be sent to 
some distance. But care should be taken not to increase friction. Arnott's 
pump may be made double, with vertical pistons working 011 the plank form- 
ing the junction of the double pump ; if properly made, a child can work the 
suspended double piston. Other machines of a like kind have been used. 

Sometimes propelling and extracting fans or screws are connected with the 
steam-engine, and air is drawn out or blown in. 

Cabins should be ventilated by tube's passing up and opening on deck ; 
they should be recurved, so as to prevent rain or water splashing in. If the 
cabin lamp is fixed below the opening, a strong current is obtained. 

3. Water supply. The tanks should be carefully examined, the quantity 
determined, and the quality examined. (See chapter on WATER.) If there 
be a distilling apparatus, this should be examined. In a sailing vessel, small 
stills should be fixed to the top of the ship's coppers. 

Permanganate of potash should always be taken to sea, as well as charcoal 
and alum. 

4. The food is inspected as follows : A cask of salt-beef and pork is opened, 
and the pieces looked at (see page 170). One or two tins of preserved meat 
are opened ; samples of flour, porter, &c., medical comforts, such as beef-tea, 
arrowroot, &c., are examined. The rules have been already given in the 
chapter on Food. It is important to take time in this examination ; not to slur 
it over, and especially to test the lemon-juice carefully. If there are many 
children on board, large stores of arrowroot, preserved milk, and children's 
farinaceous food, should be laid in.* The cooking apparatus should be next 
examined, and it should be seen that there are proper means for removing all 
refuse, which is often allowed to accumulate. For the proportion of medical 
comforts, lemon-juice, and sugar, and for the rules of diet, &c., see Medical 
Eegulations, pages 199-200 ; and for the mess and other articles to be provided 
for the troops, see page 202. 

5. The state of the hold, spaces between bunkers, bilge, and cargo, if any, 
should be next seen to ; chloride of zinc should be taken to mix with the 
bilge water. 

6. Arrangements for Washing. These are generally very defective on board 
hired transports ; on board Government transports a lavatory might easily be 
fitted up. A good forcing pump and hose should always be on board, for 
getting up salt water. At present, in most merchant transports, the arrange- 
ments fdr all these things are most primitive and incomplete. The bucket is 
still perhaps the only way of getting up water, both from the water-tanks or 
sea. 

7. The closets are usually fixed on either side, in front of the forehatchways 
or in the head. If women are on board, one should be kept for them and for 
the children. The opening should be just below the water-line. It has been 
suggested to have a double set of latrines, and only to use those on the lee- 
ward side (Kirwan). This seems a good suggestion. Considering that every- 
thing passes into the sea, it might be supposed that nothing would be easier 

* In several cases in which there occurred a large mortality of children, during voyages, &c., 
in which the symptoms are recorded, it will be found that gastro-intestinal affections and tabes 
were the causes of the sickness and mortality. The mesenteric glands are evidently injured by 
the passage through the glands of half-digested and unwholesome food. The kind of food and 
cooking on shipboard generally account for the sickness of children, it' the exanthemata are not 
present. 



600 SERVICE ON BOARD SHIP. 

than to keep the closets and head clean, but this is not the case, owing to the 
usual deficiency of water ; it is usually considered sufficient to haul up the 
water in buckets and to pour it down ; instead of this, force-pumps should be 
used j they can be so made as to be worked most easily, and with a proper dis- 
tribution of the water all round the rim of the seat, the places can be kept 
quite clean. The closets and shafts are often made of wood, but wood gets 
excessively foul ; they must be of zinc. Sometimes the soil is allowed to fall 
against the side of the ship, which soon gets impregnated, and if a port- 
hole is near, foul air drifts in. A metal plate should lie against the side, and 
bo scraped every now and then, or if this cannot be done, a piece of wood, 
which should be cleaned from time to* time. 

8. The medicine chest is next examined (see Medical Regulations, pages 
203-214), 

Duties during the Voyage. 

The health and comfort of the troops during the voyage depend entirely on 
the commanding officer and the medical officer.* 

The Queen's Eegulations are so full and clear, that to a certain extent the 
work must be done in a particular way. These regulations must be followed 
to the letter. But, of course, there should be a certain system and order in 
carrying out both the word and spirit of these regulations. The system 
usually adopted is something of this kind. Before embarkation the men are 
told oif in messes of six, and the various articles of the sea-kit are allotted. 
Whenever practicable, troops should be on board 36 hours before sailing ; 
their berths are allotted and packs hung up ; arms put in the racks ; sea-kit 
arranged, &c. Troops are then told off, three watches each, commanded by a 
subaltern, who is in charge of the deck ; a guard of a certain strength is 
ordered, and sentries are placed over the hatchways, cook-houses, forecastle, &c. 
A certain number of men are told off as cooks, and others (one to each mess) 
as swabbers. A portion of the between-decks is fixed as an hospital, if this 
has not been done ; a portion is assigned to the women and children, and 
screened off. At reveillee, troops and women and children turn out, fold 
hammocks, and take them on deck, if the weather permit ; the hammocks are 
stowed away by the swabbers till evening. Before, however, the bedding is 
brought up, the upper deck is washed by the watch. The men remain on deck, 
except the swabbers, who clean the between-decks, thoroughly ventilate, &c. 

Directly they are on deck, the washing of the men begins ; two large tubs 
are fixed on the forecastle ; in many ships the men get buckets of water 
thrown over them, and if one or two good force pumps and hose are on 
board, every man could be douched. The men wash, comb, and brush their 
heads every morning. After washing, the men parade for inspection by a 
serjeant, who sees that the hands, arms, face, and feet are clean. The men's 
breakfasts are then served ; after breakfast is cleared away, there are parade 
and drills ; or, according to circumstances, fatigue duties. Twice a- week there 
are washing parades for clothes ; the washing should be done early, and the 
clothes hung up to dry. A soldier is expected to shave and to have a clean 
shirt twice a-week at least (Queen's Eegulations, clause 19). 

If the troops are very numerous, it may be necessary to divide them into two 
or more sets for washing both persons and clothes, and to have different days. 

* My first service in the army, as a young assistant-surgeon just gazetted, was starting from 
Gravesend with troops to India. Never did a man set off in more perfect ignorance of what he 
had to do. Happily we had an excellent commanding officer who had made many voyages, 
and the next in command (now a most distinguished officer) was a thorough soldier. I can truly 
say my first sanitary lessons were learned from them. 



TRANSPORTS. 601 

If there are women and children on board, one day is set apart for their 
thorough bathing, a screen being put up on deck. For washing, a certain 
quantity of marine soap is issued, but it is said to be insufficient. Dr 
Kirwan states that 8K> per head for a voyage for four months is the proper 
quantity. During the day the troops are encouraged to take exercise and 
amusements. The men bathe when there is no danger of sharks, a sail being 
let down for those who cannot swim. At night two watches go below, one 
watch remains on deck. The men are strictly forbidden to sleep on deck 
(Queen's Kegulations, para. 41 of the chapter on Duties on Board Ship). 

There are one or two points which must be noticed. The turning out of 
the women and children is essential, but it should not be done till after the 
men have washed ; about 9 o'clock is a good time. Especially during the first 
few days after starting, when the women are sea-sick, the medical officer is 
often implored to speak to the officer in command to permit them to remain 
below. But it is always better to get them up, even for their own good, and 
this should be explained to them. Without necessity, therefore, from decided 
illness, the medical officer should refuse the request. 

The swabbing between decks is done by scraping, rubbing, and sweeping ; 
not by washing, unless the weather is dry, and then only once a-week. This 
is a very important rule; in fact, it would be well to avoid washing altogether, 
except in the very heat of the tropics. If there are berths, the lower boards 
should be removed now and then, so that every place may be cleaned. 

The watch remain on deck at night, but do not sleep ; although, of course, 
they have no duties to keep them awake. They are relieved every four hours. 
This is the only clause in the Queen's ^Regulations,* of which I greatly doubt 
the propriety. There is no harm in sleeping on deck when the weather 
permits, but, on the contrary, the greatest good. I paid particular attention to 
this point in India, and never found any man injured ; there may be heavy 
dew, but a blanket keeps this off completely, and it does no harm. The pure 
sea air is infinitely better than the hot foul atmosphere between decks. I 
have made many inquiries from friends who have had far more experience 
lately of troops at sea than I have, and I have found they all approved of the 
men sleeping on deck when the weather permits. It is much to be wished 
that the reason for this order should be again investigated. 

Again, under the present system, the watch in the pure night air are sud- 
denly sent below into the stifling atmosphere, and the relief watch are trans- 
ferred from below to the colder moving air on deck ; . the transition in either 
case has its dangers. 

The rule should be to allow, in the fine warm weather, every man to sleep 
on deck if he pleases, as long as the working of the ship is not interfered 
with. In the trades, where sometimes a rope is not touched for hours, the 
decks might be crowded. It would be well to leave this matter to the 
discretion of the commanding officer and surgeon. 

The issue of lemon-juice is commenced 10 days after the men have been at 
sea. A serjeant sees that each man drinks his share. 

Duties of the Medical Officer. As on shore, he is charged to look after 
every point connected with the health of the men, and to mention such points 
as are necessary to the commanding officer. On board ship, as everywhere, 
the medical officer is under the orders of the commanding officer, but sensible 
suggestions are always welcome. 

* Clause 41." Officers to pay the strictest attention to prevent the men sleeping on deck in 
warm weather, which they are very apt to do. This practice is generally productive of fevers 
and fluxes." I cannot think there is a moment's doubt of the entire incorrectness of the last 
sentence. 



602 SERVICE ON BOARD SHIP. 

On first going on board, the medical officer should see that the hospital or 
" sick bay" is properly arranged. The best place for the sick-bay is the 
best ventilated part, where there is not too much passage. If near the 
hatchways, there is no quiet. Ventilating tubes, &c., should be put in. A 
closet must always be provided, discharging into the sea, as well as patent 
close-stools. 

Then the kit of medical comforts, medicines, and instruments should be 
gone over, and everything placed in order. 

The daily duties are these : attendance at the sick-bay ; reception of sick ; 
preparation of morning state for the commanding officer. 

Attendance at morning parade (Queen's Regulations, clause 44), to observe 
any appearance of disease. 

Also, for the first three weeks, health inspections should be held for the detec- 
tion of venereal. It is best to hold two the first week ; one three days 
after starting, so as to catch the disease at its very commencement. 

For the first fortnight every child should be seen daily, to detect the first 
sign of scarlet fever, measles, or hooping-cough. 

After the parades, the between-decks should be visited. By that time they 
will have been swabbed out. They should be carefully inspected and occa 
sionally fumigated with nitrous acid and chlorine* (see page 84). 

In the sick-bay, if there are many patients, chlorine should be continually 
disengaged by means of the chlorine water. The bedding should be occa- 
sionally inspected, especially that of the women and children. 

The rations should be looked at from time to time ; they are always in- 
spected by the orderly officer, and the medical officer is sure to be referred 
to if there is any complaint. 

Inspect the latrines and the cook-houses regularly twice daily, morning 
and evening. 

Take care that the bilge-water is pumped out whenever practicable ; every 
day should be the rule. 

If any specific disease appears on board, the most active measures must be' 
taken to fumigate, isolate, &c. (see chapter on the PREVENTION OF DISEASES). 

If diarrhoea appear, look to the water first, then to the latrines, then to the 
bilge, then to food, as the possible causes. Take special care to cleanse the 
latrines, as the disease may be communicable. 

With regard especially to salt meat, see page 177 for the cooking of salt 
meat, and for the possibility of converting it into fresh meat by dialysis. Almost 
any skin or membrane will do as a dialyser. 

In the cooking of the preserved vegetables, remember the use of the 
permanganate of potash, if there be any smell ; or if there is none of the per- 
manganate, of chloride of lime. 

The administration of the lemon-juice should be carefully looked after. 
Every man should be seen to drink his allowance. 

Duties on Disembarkation. 

Usually the men are landed in excellent health, but almost always there is 
a large amount of sickness the first month after landing. This arises from 
personal irregularities, and the medical officer, before arriving at the port, 
should spend some time in talking to the men, and pointing out the inevitable 
consequences of misconduct and foolish irregularity. Intemperance especially 

* The Queen's Regulations (clause 39) order for chlorine common salt four ounces ; one 
ounce oxide manganese ; sulphuric acid one fluid ounce (which is nearly two ounces by weight) ; 
water two fluid ounces ; the pipkin is to be placed in a vessel of hot sand. 



SICK TRANSPORTS. 603 

is the grand cause of disease. The men on landing are placed in a position 
of temptation on account of the ill-judged hospitality and welcome of their 
comrades at the station, who think it necessary to show their pleasure at 
meeting by doing their best to make their friends ill. If a medical officer 
has been attentive during a long voyage, he will be sure to have acquired 
much influence with the men by the time they arrive at their journey's end. 
He should use this power for their good (see page 592). 



SECTION II. 
TKANSPORTS FOR SICK TROOPS. 

No specific regulations are laid down with respect to these ships, but it 
would be very desirable to have some set rules with respect to space, diet, 
and fittings. At present the diet, especially of invalids, is not good. The 
invalids from India, landed at Netley, show not infrequently, Dr Maclean 
informs us, symptoms of scurvy. In respect of fittings, the use of swinging 
cots for feeble men, and well-arranged closets for dysenteric cases, are very 
important. So also with the cooking ; the coarse ship cooking is a great trial 
to many patients. If there is need of Government transports for healthy 
men, the necessity is still greater for sick men.* 

The general rules for transports are to be attended to here, with, of course, 
such relaxations and modifications as the state of the sick suggests. As far 
as possible, the sick should be treated on deck in fine weather, a good awning 
and a comfortable part of the deck being appropriated to them. I believe 
that it would be a good plan not to send home sick officers and men in the 
same ship, but to have officers' ships, so as to give up the poop to the men in 
the ships which carried them. This division would be a gain to both. 

In time of war, sick transports are largely used to carry troops to hospitals 
in rear. For this purpose good roomy steamers must be chosen. For 
economy's sake, they will generally be large, and probably with two decks ; 
they should never have more, and indeed a single deck is better. But if with 
two decks, each space should be separately ventilated by tubes, so as, as far 
as possible, to prevent passage of foul air from the lower to the upper deck. 
All the worst cases should be on the upper deck, especially surgical cases. 

The decks of these vessels should be as clear as possible, so that men can 
l)e treated on deck. An apparatus should be arranged for hoisting men on 
deck from below. 

It has been proposed to fit these ships with iron bedsteads, and no doubt 
this gives the men more space ; but a better plan still would probably be to 
have short iron rods, to which every cot could be suspended. The sick men 
might be carried in their cots on board, and again removed. If the rods are 
made about 14 inches high, an.d bent in at the top so as to form a hook, a cot 
is hung easily, and will swing. There is space enough below to put a close- 
stool or pan under the man without stirring him, if a flap is left open in the 
canvas, and a hole left in the thin mattress. 

Fixed berths are not so good, but some must be provided. Some cots can 
swing from the top, and some men can be in hammocks. Probably every sick 
transport should have all these, viz., iron bedsteads at some points fastened 

* Formerly, when the late Dr Scott was out of town, I used to take his duties of Examining 
Physician to the East India Company. One of these duties was to read the journals of the 
medical officers returning with troops. In these journals the system of bringing home invalids 
was very frequently strongly commented on and condemned ; yet it has very little improved, if 
at all, since those days. 



604 SERVICE ON BOARD SHIP. 

<to the deck, iron standards for swinging cots, cots swinging from the roof, 
low berths, and hammocks. 

In these sick transports the kits and clothes must be stowed away ; and as 
they are often very dirty and offensive, and sometimes carry the poison of 
typhus and other diseases, the place where they are put should be constantly 
fumigated with nitrous and sulphurous acid alternately. Robert Jackson 
mentions that dirty clothes and bedding may be soon washed sweet by mix- 
ing oatmeal with salt water. 

Directly a sick transport has landed the sick, the whole place should be 
thoroughly washed and scraped, then the walls and ceiling should be lime- 
washed, and the between decks constantly fumigated till the very moment 
when fresh sick embark. 

SECTION III. 
HOSPITAL SHIPS. 

These are ships intended for the reception and treatment of the sick, 
floating hospitals, in short. Whenever operations are undertaken along a 
seaboard, and especially when a force is moving, and places for fixed hospitals 
cannot be assigned, they are indispensable. They at once relieve the army 
from a very heavy encumbrance, and, by the prompt attendance which can be 
given to the sick, save many lives. They should always be organised at the 
commencement of a campaign. 

However convenient, and indeed necessary, they are, it must be clearly 
understood that they are not equal to an hospital on shore. It is impossible 
to ventilate and clean them thoroughly. The space is small between decks. 
The wood gets impregnated with effluvia, and even sometimes the bilge is 
contaminated. I have been informed by I)r Becher, late pathologist in China, 
that even in the very best of the hospitals used there, it was quite clear that 
in every wound there was evidence of a slight gangrenous tendency. In fact, 
it is perhaps impossible to prevent this. 

The principle of separation should be carried out in these ships. One ship 
for wounded men, another for fevers, a third for mixed cases. In fine weather 
the sick should be treated on deck under awnings. The between-decks must 
be thoroughly ventilated, and all measures of fumigation, frequent lime- 
washing, &c., must be constantly employed. Charcoal, also, in substance 
should be largely used, and is, in fact, quite indispensable. Warming by 
stoves must be used in damp and cold weather, and, if so, advantage should 
be taken of this source of heat, and of all lights, to improve ventilation. 

Ships of one deck are better than two ; but as they will hold a very small 
number of sick, two decks must be used. But not more than two decks 
should be used ; and if there be a third or orlop deck, it should be kept for 
stores. Sometimes, if there are two decks, the upper deck is used for officers 
and ihe lower for troops, but the reverse arrangement should be adopted. 

The ventilation of the between-decks, in addition to Edmond's plan, should 
be carried on by tubes, which, if the central shaft is acting, will be all inlets, 
and can be so arranged as to cause good distribution of the air. 

In an hospital ship the offices are the same as in a land hospital ablution- 
room, surgery, purveyor's store, bakehouse, laundry, pack-store. In the Army 
Medical Report for 1859 is a description, with plans, of the hospital ships 
Mauritius and Melbourne, equipped by Dr Mapletoii for service in China ; 
this paper should be referred to, as it gives a very good account of the arrange- 
ments. 



HOSPITAL SHIPS. 605 

The fittings of an hospital ship should be as few and simple as possible, and 
invariably of iron. Tables should be small, and on thin iron legs. Swinging 
cots (as noticed in the former section) are indispensable for wounded men, and 
the appliances for the receiving and removing the excreta of dysenteric and 
febrile patients must be carefully attended to. Berths should not be of wood, 
but of iron bars, which are much more easily laid bare and cleaned. 

The supply of distilled drinking water should be as large as possible, and a 
good distilling apparatus should be on board, whether the vessel be a steamer 
or not. 

The laundry arrangements are most important, and I believe it would be a 
good plan to have a small ship converted entirely into a laundry. It would 
not only wash for the sick, but for the healthy men also. So also a separate 
ship for a bakery is an important point, so as to have no baking on board the 
hospital ship. 

On board the hospital ship there should be constant fumigation ; lime- 
washing, whenever any part of the hospital can be cleaned for a day or two, 
and, in fact, every other precaution taken which can be thought of to make 
the floating hospital equally clean, dry, well aerated and pure, as an hospital 
on shore. 

On board hospital ships it is often easy to arrange for sea-bathing and 
douching; it should never be forgotten what important curative means these 
are. 

In case pyaemia and erysipelas, or hospital gangrene occur, the cases must 
be treated on deck, no matter how bad the weather may be. Good awnings 
to protect from wind and rain can be put up. 

If cows or goats are kept on board to supply milk, their stalls must be kept 
thoroughly cleaned. But generally it is better to obtain milk from the shore. 



CHAPTER V. 
WAK. 

THE trade of the soldier is war. For war, he is selected, maintained, and 
taught. As a force at the command of a government, the army is also an 
agent for maintaining public order ; but this is a minor object, and only occa- 
sionally called for, when the civil power is incompetent. 

In theory, an army should be so trained for war as to be ready to take the 
field at literally a moment's notice. The various parts composing it should be 
so organised that, almost as quickly as the telegram flies, they can be brought 
together at any point, prompt to commence those combined actions by which 
a body of men are moved, fed, clothed, kept supplied with munitions of war, 
maintained in health or cured if sick, and ready to undertake all the engineer- 
ing, mechanical, and strategical and tactical movements which constitute the 
art of war. 

That an organisation so perfect shall be carried out, it is necessary that all 
its parts shall be equally efficient ; if one fails, the whole machine breaks down. 
The strength of a chain is the strength of its weakest link, and this may be 
said with equal truth of an army. Commissariat, transport, medical, and en- 
gineering appliances are as essential as the arts of tactics and strategy. It is a 
narrow and a dangerous view which sees in war merely the movements of the 
soldier, without recognising the less seen agencies which insure that the soldier 
shall be armed, fed, clothed, healthy, and vigorous. 

During peace, the soldier is trained for war. What is meant by training 
for war 1 Not merely that the soldier shall be taught to use his weapons 
with effect, and to act his part in that machine, where something of mechani- 
cal accuracy is imprinted on human beings, but that he shall also know how 
to meet and individually cope with the various conditions of war, which differ 
so much from those of peace. 

It is in the nature of war to reinduce a sort of barbarism. The arts and 
appliances of peace, which tend, almost without our carefto shelter, and clothe, 
and feed us, disappear. The man reverts in part to his pristine condition, 
and often must minister as he best may to his own wants. No doubt, the 
State will aid him in this ; but it is impossible to do so as completely as in 
peace. Often, indeed, an army in war has maintained itself in complete in- 
dependence of its base of supplies, and in almost every campaign there is 
more or less of this independence of action. 

In peace, the soldier, as far as clothing, feeding, shelter, and cleanliness are 
concerned, is almost reduced to the condition of a passive agent. Everything 
is done for him, and all the appliances of science are brought into play to 



PREPARATION FOR WAR. 607 

save labour and to lessen cost. Is this the proper plan ? Looking to the con- 
ditions of war, ought not a soldier to be considered in the light of an emi- 
grant, who may suddenly be called upon to quit the appliances of civilised 
life, and who must depend on himself and his own powers for the means of 
comfort, and even subsistence? 

There is a general impression that the English soldier, when placed in 
unaccustomed circumstances, can do nothing for himself, and is helpless. If 
so, it is not the fault of the man, but of the system, which reduces him to such 
a state. That it is not the fault of the man is shown by the fact that, how- 
ever helpless the English soldier may appear to be in the first campaign, he 
subsequently becomes as clever in providing for himself as any man. The 
Crimean war did not perhaps last long enough to show this, but the Peninsu- 
lar war proved it. The soldier there learned to cook, to house himself, to 
shelter himself from the weather when he had no house, to keep himself clean, 
and to mend and make his clothes. Was it not the power of doing these 
things, as well as the mere knowledge of movements and arms, which made 
the Duke of Wellington say that his army could go anywhere and do any- 
thing 1 And the wars at the Cape and in New Zealand have shown that the 
present race of soldiers, when removed from the appliances of civilised life, 
have not lost this power of adaptation. 

The English soldier is not helpless ; he is simply untrained in "these things, 
and so long as he is untrained, however perfect he may be in drill and 
manoeuvre, he is not fit for war. The campaign itself must not be his tutor ; 
it must be in the mimic campaigns of peace, in which the stern realities of 
war are imitated, that the soldier must be trained. Our present field- 
days represent the very acme and culminating point of war ; the few bright 
moments when the long marches and the wearisome guards are rewarded by 
the wild excitement of battle ; but the more common conditions of the cam- 
paign ought also to find their parallel. Since the Crimean war, much has 
been done to instruct the soldier in the minor arts of war. The establish- 
ment of camps has to some extent familiarised him with tent life ; the flying 
columns which go out from Aldershot show him something of the life of the 
bivouac, and the training in cooking which Lord Herbert ordered, is teaching 
him how to prepare his food. It requires only an extension of this system 
to make the soldier familiarised with the chief conditions of the life in cam- 
paigns. 

A campaign can never be successful unless the men are healthy. How are 
men to be trained so as to start in a campaign in a healthy condition, and to 
be able to bear the manifold trials of war ? The answer may be given under 
three heads 

1. Preparation for war during peace. 

2. Entry on war. 

3. Actual service in war. 

SECTION I. 
PREPARATION FOR WAR DURING PEACE. 

The various conditions of war, which are different from those of peace, are 
1. Exposure to the Weather. It is a constant observation that men who 
have led out-door lives are far more healthy in war than men whose occupa- 
tions have kept them in houses. The soldier's life should be, therefore, an 
out-door one. This can only be done properly by keeping him in tents during 
the summer. It would be well, in fact, to tent the whole army from the 



608 WAR. 

middle of May to the end of October every year. ' The expense should be 
looked on as a necessary part of the military establishments. Wooden huts 
are too like ordinary barracks. As the soldier has often to sleep out in war, 
he should be accustomed to this also in peace ; warm summer nights being 
first selected to train him. It will soon be found that he will very soon acquire 
the power of resistance to cold. This plan also will test the utility of his 
clothes.* It has been found by experiment that, by careful training, even 
delicate persons can bear sleeping out at night, even in tolerably cold weather, 
without injury, provided there be no rain. At the latter end of the summer 
it would be well to expose the men even to rainy nights, their clothes being 
adapted for this by the supply of waterproofs. 

It may be thought that training of this kind is needless, and that it may 
be left to the campaign to accustom the men to exposure, but this is not the 
case ; a number of men are rendered inefficient at the commencement of a 
campaign simply by the unaccustomed exposure. 

2. Tent and Camp Life. The pitching, striking, and cleansing of tents, 
(see page 308) ; the digging trenches round the tents, and providing for gene- 
ral surface drainage ; the arrangement of the interior of the tent, &c. , should 
all be carefully taught. So also the camp life of the campaign should be 
closely imitated. A place being taken up for the camp, and if there be any 
prevailing wind, the front of the camp being turned to the wind, dry paths 
should be constructed between the different parts ; latrines should be dug in 
rear of the stables, and not too near the kitchen, and en echelon with the 
camp ; each latrine should be a trench twenty to fifty feet long, according to 
the size of the camp, ten deep and two wide at the top, and three at the 
bottom. The earth thrown out should be arranged on three sides. It should 
be screened by branches of trees, and earth should be thrown in every day. 
When four feet from the surface, it should be filled in and another dug, the 
earth of the old one being raised like a mound to mark the spot. Close to 
it an urinal should be constructed, of a sloping channel paved as well as it can 
be, and leading into the latrines, or of a tub which can be emptied into it, and, 
as far as possible, men should be prevented from passing the urine round their 
tents. 

A corps of scavengers should be immediately organised to clean away all 
surface filth, and to attend to the latrines and urinals. All refuse must Be 
completely removed ; it is often a good plan to burn it. Both in peace and 
war, encamping ground should be often changed, and an old camp should 
never be occupied. (For erection of huts, see page 301). 

In addition to tents, the men should IDG taught, if possible, to house them- 
selves. Huts of wattle should be run up, or wooden sheds of some kind. In 
war, men soon learn to house themselves. Luscombet gives the following 
account of the huts in the Peninsula : - 

" A cork tree or evergreen oak with wide-spreading branches was chosen ; 
a lower branch was nearly cut through, so as to allow the extreme points to 
drop to the ground. Other branches were then cut from adjoining trees and 
fixed in a circle in the ground, through the branch, on which their upper 
branches rested. Smaller branches were then interwoven to thicken the walls, 
and the inside was lined with the broom-plant, which was thatched in. The 

* In reference to what was said (p. 381) of the great importance of a hood to the greatcoat 
for men who sleep out at night, an old observation of Donald Monro is of interest. He states 
that in 1760 the greater health enjoyed by the Austrian Hussars over other troops, Avas owing 
to the half-boots, and the large cloaks with hoods carried by these men. On the Means of Pre- 
serving the Health of the Army. (2d edit. 1780, p. 7.) 

f On the Means of Preserving the Health of Soldiers, 1821, p. 107. 



PREPARATION FOR WAR. ' 609 

door of the hut was put due east, so that the sun might pass over it before it 
reached the horizon." 

This hut was very cool during the day, but very cold at night, and thus 
"very prejudicial to health." 

Underground huts are sometimes used ; they are, however, dangerous ; 
they are often damp, and are difficult of ventilation. In cold, dry countries, 
however, they are warm, and the Turks have constantly used them in cam- 
paigns in winter on the Danube. They have, however, frequently suffered 
from typhus. If used, there should be two openings besides the chimney, so 
as to allow a current of air ; and a spot should be chosen where it is least 
likely water will gravitate. But underground huts are always to be discour- 
aged if any substitutes can be found. Sometimes the side of a hill is cut into, 
and the open top covered with boards and earth. This is as bad as an under- 
ground hut. 

Tents should not be placed in an excavation, but, if too cold, a wall of 
stones or earth should be built, and the tent placed on it. When sleeping 
out, the men should be taught to use every inequality of the ground as a pro- 
tection against cold winds ; it is astonishing what protection even a slight 
elevation gives. 

3. Cooking of Food. No doubt, in future wars, all governments will en- 
deavour to supply prepared and cooked food (see page 225), so as to lessen 
the cost of transport and the labour of the soldier. But as this cannot always 
be depended upon, the soldier must be trained to cook his ordinary rations. 
This should not be done for him ; he ought to do it himself merely with the 
appliances he would have in war, viz., his camp kettle, canteen, and tin plate. 
The camp kitchen is made simply of a round or square hole, sunk half a 
foot to a foot in the ground ; the fire is fed with air by a small channel cut in 
the ground for some little distance. This channel should be covered in with 
turf or stones, and by proper management the draught to the fire can be in- 
creased or lessened ; if the fire itself be more or less covered with a stone, or 
tin plate, or turf, the fuel can be economised. The fire can be used for boil- 
ing, or for baking in the canteen ; the fire being then taken out, or the embers 
heaped round the sides, and the top closed or nearly so. If a camp is more 
permanent, Captain Grant's plan (page 290) should be imitated, the central 
chimney being made of planks. But everything should be done by the men 
themselves. 

At the commencement of a campaign many men lose flesh and strength 
from the food being badly cooked and indigestible. 

In the Peninsular war the men became admirable cooks. At first very 
large camp-kettles, intended for half a company, were used, and were carried 
on horses. They did not answer, and the men left them behind. After- 
wards smaller camp-kettles were supplied, one for each mess of six or eight. 
Luscombe mentions that the supply of salt was found to be a very important 
point ; he says, he had no idea of the value of this condiment till he saw the 
way in which the men saved every little particle ; without it, in fact, animal 
and even vegetable food is unsavoury. 

It may be a question whether the present canteen might not be improved ; 
it should not be soldered. No soldered articles do in war ; the solder melts, 
and cannot be replaced. Many years ago a very portable cooking tin was 
sold in shops in London ; it would hold a pint of water, which could be 
boiled by lighting a comparatively small piece of brown paper, placed in an 
outer casing, and slowly supplied with air. The objection to any articles of 
this kind is the weight. 

In the Crimea some camp stoves, invented or improved by Soyer, were 



610 WAR. 

used. Such, things are very useful in camps of position, but are not always 
forthcoming in rapid movements. 

The different kinds of camp cooking to be taught are stewing, boiling, and 
making soup, making tea and coffee, cooking preserved vegetables, making 
cakes of flour, and oatmeal porridge. 

4. Water Supply. As impure water is a great cause of sickness in war, 
the soldier should be taught how to recognise impurity, and how to use 
the simple methods of purification with charcoal, alum, tea, boiling, &c. 
(See chapter on WATER.) 

5. Mending Clothes. Every soldier carries a hold-all, but many cannot use 
it properly. It may be suggested whether, in the workshops which are now 
being established, it would not be well to let every recruit have a month's 
practice in repairing clothes, and especially boots; simple plans of repair 
being selected if it be possible. 

6. Cleanliness. In war a source of disease is the want of cleanliness. Very 
soon the person and clothes get covered with lice ; all the garments, outer as 
well as under, get impregnated with sweat, and become very filthy. The best 
generals have always been very careful on this point, and have had frequent 
washing parades. As washing clothes is really an art, the soldier should be 
taught to do it, not by machinery, but in the rude fashion he must practise 
during war. Clothes can be partially cleaned by drying and beating. (See 
page 372.) 

The hair should be cut short. In the absence of water for washing, the 
best plan is the small-tooth comb, to keep the hair free from vermin, and it 
may be a question whether one should not be supplied to every soldier. 

Washing the whole body in cold water, whenever it can be done, is not only 
bracing and invigorating, but strengthens it against vicissitudes of weather, 
and against dysentery.* 

SECTION II. 
ENTRY ON WAE. 

When actual war commences some further steps become necessary. 

All experience shows that men under twenty or twenty-one years of age 
cannot bear the fatigues of war.t If possible, then, all men below twenty- 
one, or at any rate below twenty, should be held back from the campaign, 
and formed into depots, whence they may be draughted for active service on 
occasion. Of course every means should be taken during their service at the 
depots to strengthen and harden them. 

All weakly men should also be held back, and every man thus retained 
should come under the surgeon's superintendence, not in hospital, but while 
doing his duty. 

The men who are about to enter on the campaign should at once com- 
mence a more severe training, especially by marches with weights. If there 
be time to do it, this should be carried to an extent even greater than will 
be demanded in war, in the manner of the Romans, who trained their sol- 
diers so severely in peace that war was a relief. The rules given in marches 

* Both Donald Monro and Lind notice this. 

t The examples are numerous, but the following are often quoted. In 1805 the French 
army broke up at Boulogne, and marched 400 leagues (French) to fight at Austerlitz ; the 

? r oungest soldier was twenty-two years old ; they left scarcely any sick or wounded en route. 
n 1809 the French marched from the German provinces to Vienna ; not half the army were 
aged twenty years ; the hospitals were filled with sick. In 1813 and 1814 the despatches of 
Napoleon are filled with complaints of the "boys/' who were sent him, and who died in multi- 
tudes by the road side and in the hospitals. 



WAR. 611 

about sore feet, and the means of preventing those and other evils, should be 
attended to (see page 361, et seq.) at this time. 

Certain changes in the food of the men should be made. 

The exertions of war, bodily and mental, are often very great, and demand 
an increased quantity of food, especially in the nitrogenous and fatty ele- 
ments; an increased amount of meat and bread, with the addition of fat 
bacon, cheese, and peas or beans, should be given, so as to bring the daily 
amount of nitrogen to 400 grains, and of carbon to 5000 or 6000 grains 
daily, or, in other words, 6 ounces of albuminates ( = 400 grains of nitrogen 
and about 1400 grains of carbon), 3 ounces of fats (=1137 grains of carbon, 
and about 14 ounces of carbo-hydrates (= 2702 grains of carbon). The salts 
also must be increased, and it would be well to do this by adding chloride of 
potassium, phosphate of soda, and perhaps a little citrate of iron to the 
culinary salt. During the war, make every effort to get bread and flour sup- 
plied in lieu of biscuit (see page 196), and to supply red wine (page 241). 

As one of the perils of war is the occurrence of scurvy, the supply of 
fresh vegetables should be increased ; if these at all fail during the campaign, 
the preserved vegetables must be issued, and the other precautions taken (see 
pages 463-466). Considering the benefit apparently derived in Captain 
Cook's voyages from wort made from malt, it might be worth while to try the 
effect of introducing this as a beverage ; it can be readily made. 

Donald Monro mentions that at Bremen, in 1762, when no vegetables 
could be got, and fresh meat was dear, and scurvy broke out, infusion of 
horse-radish was found to be useful. Spruce beer was also used. The con- 
centrated foods should also be largely stored, so that the troops can be sup- 
plied on excursions or in emergencies, and the men should be taught how to 
cook them, and especially in the case of the compressed vegetables. 



SECTION III. 
ACTUAL WAR* 

Experience has showed in hundreds of campaigns that there is a large 
amount of sickness. The almost universality of this proves that, with every 
care, the conditions of war are unfavourable to health. The strenuous exer- 
tions, the broken rest, the exposure to cold and wet, the scanty, ill-cooked, or 

* Sanitary Rules of the Romans during War. 

Vegetius (De Re Mililari, lib. iii. cap. 2) says the Romans took great care that the men 
should be well supplied with good water, good provisions, firewood, sufficient quantity of wine, 
vinegar, and salt. They endeavoured to keep their armies in good health by due attention 

1. To Situation ; avoiding marshes and dry uncovered ground in summer ; in having tents ; 
frequently changing camps in summer and autumn. 

2. To the Water ; for bad water was considered to be very productive of diseases. 

3. To the Seasons ; not exposing men to heat. In winter, taking particular care that the 
men never were in want of firewood or of clothing. 

4. To Food and Medicine ; the officers saw that the men had their regular meals, and were 
well looked after by the commissariat. 

5. To Exercise ; by keeping the troops during the day-time in constant exercise ; in dry 
weather in the open air ; in time of rain or snow under cover ; for exercise was believed to do 
a great deal more for the preservation of health than the art of physic. 

The Prsefectus-Castrorum (Quartermaster-General), an officer of high rank in the Roman 
army, looked after the sick, and provided everything required by the surgeons. Both Livy and 
Tacitus mention that the commanding officers used to visit the sick and wounded soldiers, to 
inquire if they were well taken care of. 

Rules of the Macedonians. The only notice, I believe, of the means by which Alexander the 
Great preserved so wonderfully the health of his small army, is a statement that he frequently 
changed his encamping grounds (Quintus Curtius, lib. v. 32). This great soldier must certainly 
have been acquainted with the art of Hygiene. 

2 Q 2 



612 WAR. 

unwholesome food, the bad water, and the foul and overcrowded camps and 
tents, account for the amount of disease. 

The amount of illness varies with the nature of the campaign and the 
genius of the commander. 

If records can be trusted, it would seem that the English have been more 
unhealthy than the Trench in their wars, but there is no great trust to be 
placed in war statistics. In the Peninsula, the mean daily number of sick 
was never below 12 per cent., except for a short time, in the lines of Torres 
Vedras, when it fell to 9 or 10. Sometimes it amounted to 15, 20, or 25 per 
cent. In the Crimea, the immense sickness of the first winter is but too well 
remembered. 

Army Medical Regulations. 

Before an army takes the field, the Director-General may appoint a medical 
officer to act as Field-Inspector under the principal medical officer, but not to 
act as sanitary officer (p. 69). The Director-General prepares lists of all medi- 
cines, stores, &c. (p. 69). The amount of transport and of stores is laid down 
(pp. 69-77). 

Before an army takes the field, the Director-General, on requirement by the 
War Office, gives an account of everything in the proposed scene of operations 
which may affect the health of the men (p. 82). He appoints a sanitary 
officer to be attached to the Quartermaster-General's department (p. 82). He 
issues instructions to the principal medical officer and sanitary officer on all 
matters connected with rations, clothing, shelter, precautions for preventing 
disease, &c. (p. 82). 

The sanitary officer inspects all proposed encamping ground, quarters, &c., 
and supervises the sanitary arrangements of all camps, towns, hospitals, &c. 
(p. 83). The principal medical officer advises the Commander of the Forces 
on all matters affecting health, such as rations, shelter, clothing, &c., and 
may, with the sanction of the Commander of the Forces, issue instructions on 
such matters to. the medical officers (p. 84). 

The sanitary officer inspects the camp daily ; accompanies the Quartermaster- 
General on the march, and gives his advice on all sanitary points (p. 85). He 
is supplied with information to aid him in his work from all principal medical 
officers of general hospitals, divisions, and brigades in the field (p. 85). He 
transmits a weekly sanitary report to the principal medical officer (p. 85). 

Causes of Sickness and Mortality in War. 

The chief causes of sickness and mortality in the English army have been 
in order of fatality 

1. Diseases arising from improper and insufficient food, viz., general feeble- 
ness and increased liability to malarious fevers, dysentery, bronchitis, &c., and 
actual production of scurvy and scorbutic dysentery. 

2. Malarious disease from unhealthy sites. 

3. Catarrhs, bronchitis, pleurisy, pneumonia, rheumatism, dysentery (?), 
produced by inclemencies of weather. 

4. Spotted typhus, kept up and spread (if not produced) by overcrowding 
and uncleanliness. 

5. Contagious dysentery, arising from foul camps and latrines. 

6. Typhoid and perhaps other fevers, produced by foul camps. 

7. Exhaustion and debility, produced by excessive fatigue a very great 
predisposing cause of almost all other diseases. 

8. Cholera, in India especially, and in Turkey. 



WAR. 613 

9. Yellow fever in the West Indian campaigns. 

10. Plague in Egypt. 

11. The exanthemata occasionally. 

12. Ophthalmia. 

13. Venereal diseases. 

Of these diseases the most fatal have been scorbutic dysentery and typhus. 
It is indeed curious to see how invariably in all wars the scorbutic taint occurs, 
and frequently in how early a period of the campaign it can be detected. 
There almost seems to be something in the fatigues and anxieties of war 
which assists its development. It frequently complicates every other disease, 
impresses on them a peculiar character, and renders them very intractable to 
treatment. This is the case with dysentery, typhoid fever, malarious fever, 
and spotted typhus. With the last disease, especially, it has intimate rela- 
tions, and contributes apparently to its propagation by rendering the frame 
more easily attacked by the specific poison. 

One of the most important preventive measures to be adopted in war is the 
prophylactic treatment of scurvy. But with a full knowledge of this, the 
disease cannot always be avoided. The Federal Americans were fully aware 
of the necessity of combating it, and made immense efforts to do so. They 
did not succeed, and so marked and so general was the scorbutic taint in 
their army, that its combinations with typhoid fever and malaria have been 
looked upon as new diseases. 

If scurvy could be prevented, every other war disease would be compara- 
tively trifling. Inflammations from exposure, exhaustion from fatigue, and 
gastro-intestinal affections from improper food and atmospheric vicissitudes, 
would still occur ; but the ravages of typhus, typhoid fever, malaria, and 
dysentery, would be trifling and easily prevented. 

To prevent scurvy, then, is one of the most important measures. 

If scurvy be absent, typhus fever is readily treated; isolation and the freest 
ventilation are certain to stop it. The only great danger would be in a be- 
sieged and crowded fortress. In such a case it may be beyond control, but 
early recognition and prompt isolation, as far as it can be done, and as free 
ventilation as possible, may perhaps stop it. It is in such cases that we 
should freely use the nitrous acid fumes and other disinfectant vapours. 

Typhoid fever and contagious dysentery, in the same way, ought with cer- 
tainty to be prevented in a camp. The first case, even, should make us take 
urgent measures for the cleansing of latrines, or, better still, the closing of all 
the old and the opening of fresh ones. But the best plan of all is to shift the 
encamping ground, and we should remember the old Eoman maxim, based 
doubtless on observation of typhoid fevers, that this must be done more often 
in the autumn. 

The exanthemata, measles, and scarlet fever, sometimes' spread largely, 
through an army ; the only plan is to separate all cases, and send them one 
day's march on the flank of the army, if it can be done, not in the direction 
of the line of supplies. 

Plague probably demands the same measures as typhus. 

The measures for cholera have been already sufficiently noted (p. 448). 

The diseases of exposure can be hardly avoided, but may be lessened by 
warm clothes and waterproof outer coverings. Flannel should be used next 
the skin all over the trunk and extremities, and is indispensable. One of the 
most important means to enable troops to stand inclemencies of weather, and 
indeed all fatigues, is hot food. Coffee and tea are the best, and hot spirits 
and water, though useful as an occasional measure, are much inferior, if indeed 
they do any good at all apart from the warmth (see page 247.) But the 



614 WAR. 

supply of hot food in war should be carefully attended to, especially in the 
case of breakfast, after which men will undergo without harm great exposure 
and fatigue. 

It is unnecessary to enter at greater length into the measures to prevent the 
diseases of war, for the proper plans have been all enumerated previously. We 
may conclude only that much can be done to prevent disease, but we must 
also remember that the course of campaigns sometimes is too violent and over- 
powering for our efforts, and wars, like revolutions, will never be made with 
rose-water. 

Recapitulation of the Duties of a Sanitary Officer during War. 

To go forward with the officers of the quartermaster's department, to choose 
the camping ground (see pages 278-9) ; arrange for surface drainage ; if 
necessarily in a malarious place, make use of all obstacles, as hills, trees, &c., 
to throw off the malaria from the tents ; place the tents with the openings 
from the malarious quarter. If possible, never take low hills (100 to 250 feet) 
above marshy plains. Arrange for the water supply, and for the service of the 
men, animals, and washing (see page 47). As soon as possible, fix the sites 
for the latrines ; have them dug out, and make dry paths to them. As soon 
as the tents are pitched, visit the whole camp, and see that the external ven- 
tilation is not blocked in any way, and that the tents are as far off each other 
as can be permitted. Assign their work to the scavengers, and mark out the 
places of deposit for refuse. The daily inspection should include all these 
points, as well as the inspection of the food and cooking and of the slaughter- 
houses. If the camp be a large one, a certain portion should be selected every 
day for the careful inspection of the individual tents, but it should be made 
in no certain order, that the men may not prepare specially for the inspection. 

A set of rules should be drawn up for the men, pointing out the necessity 
of ventilation, cleanliness of their persons, tents, and ground around them, and 
ordering the measures which are to be adopted. This will have to be promul- 
gated by the general in command. 

In the daily work, a certain order and routine should be followed, so that 
nothing shall be overlooked. 

The sanitary officer of a large camp can never perform his duties without 
the most unremitting support from the regimental medical officers, who are 
the sanitary officers of their regiments. Not only must they inspect their own 
regimental camps, but by an immediate report to the sanitary officer of any 
disease which can possibly be traced to some camp impurity, they should 
render it possible for the commencing evil, of whatever kind, to be detected 
and checked. 

As early as possible every morning the number of men reported sick from 
each regiment should be made known, and a calculation made of sick to 
strength, and then, if any regiment showed any excess of sick, the sanitary 
state of its camp should be specially and thoroughly investigated. 

Hospitals in War* 
With an army in the field hospitals are of several kinds. 

* Sir James M'Grigor, in the Peninsula, established divisional hospitals in front, and con- 
valescent hospitals in the rear, where the men were received en route to the depot. Although 
he does not describe his system fully in his paper in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions (vol. 
vi._), it is evident from his Autobiography that his constant practice was to send off the sick as 
soon as possible. This is shown by his narrative of the retreat from Burgos, when he saved 
Lord Wellington from the mortification of abandoning his sick and wounded to the enemy. In 
this section I have merely enumerated the hospitals and considered them from a hygienic point 



HOSPITALS. 615 

1. Regimental Hospitals. These are purposely kept as small as possible ; 
they are intended merely to receive the men when they are first reported sick, 
and to treat the slightest cases. But it is most important to keep the regiment 
free from sick men, and any man who is likely to be ill for several days 
should be sent to the hospitals in rear. 

2. Division Hospitals are small general hospitals under the charge of a 
staff-surgeon and staff assistant-surgeon. They are intended especially for 
emergencies, such as wounded men in action, and should be kept as empty as 
possible for this purpose ; still, sometimes they must be used for urgent 
medical patients who are too ill, or attacked too suddenly, to be sent to the 
hospital in rear ; or if the hospital in rear is at some distance, they are used 
as receiving houses. Both regimental and division hospitals move with the 
force, and are best made of tents. The tents should be large, and thoroughly 
ventilated. The present hospital marquee might be improved (see page 302).* 
It is now quite certain that good tents are much better than any buildings 
which can be got. 

3. In rear of the army is the Field General Hospital, which receives all 
the sick and wounded who can be transported from the front. The exact 
position of this hospital depends on the campaign and country. It is put as 
near to the army as it can be, regard being had to the safety of the men and the 
necessity of supply of hospital stores. The Austrian experience seems to be 
in favour of making it of tents, moving it up with the army. It must be of 
great advantage to have it made of tents ; they have all the advantage of 
separate houses both as to ventilation and separation of patients ; have excellent 
ventilation, if well made ; can be shifted from ground to ground or place to 
place; erysipelas and hospital gangrene are extremely rare in them (p. 457). 

In the general hospital classification of patients is of extreme importance, 
and this can be more easily managed by tents or wooden huts than in any 
other way. Surgical cases must be kept separate ; on no account must they 
ever be put with fever cases. This was a Peninsula rule of Sir James 
M'Grigor, and should never be forgotten. The fever cases (if admitted), both 
typhus and typhoid, should be by themselves, and ophthalmic cases must also 
be isolated. There may be more admixture of other diseases. 

4. In rear, again, of the Field General Hospital, other hospitals intended for 
lingering cases, for half-cured wounds, all cases of severe inflammations which 
can be moved, rheumatism, phthisis, fever cases, &c., and men* requiring 
change of air, must be organised. These may be at some distance in rear, but 
connected either with a railway or by water carriage. It is of great import- 
ance to keep continually sending patients from the division and general 
hospitals with the army to the hospitals in rear. It is not only to keep the 
hospitals in front empty for emergencies, and to facilitate all movements of 
the army, but it has a great effect on the army itself. A great hospital full 
of sick is a disheartening spectacle, and often damps the spirit of the bravest 
men. The whole army is higher in hope and spirits when the sick are 
removed, as was shown remarkably by the Austrian experience of 1859. The 
sick themselves are greatly benefited by the removal ; the change of scene, 
of air, of ideas, has itself a marvellous effect, and this is another great reason 
for constantly evacuating the sick from the hospitals in front. 

The men who are reported for hospital in war must be divided into several 



of view. My colleague, Professor Longmore, in the work on Military Surgery which will be 
shortly published, will detail at length the means of transport of the sick and wounded, and 
other important matters of the kind. 

* Improvements are, I understand, to be made in the ventilation of the hospital marquee. 



616 WAR, 

1 . Slightly wounded should be treated in the regimental or division hospitals, 
and then return to duty. 

2. Severely wounded at first in the division hospitals, then sent to the 
general hospital, and then to the rear, as convalescence is always long. 

3. Slight colds, diarrhoea, &c., treated in the regimental hospitals. 

4. Severer colds, bronchitis, pleurisy, pneumonia, dysentery, &c., should be 
sent at once to the general hospital, and then to the rear as soon as they can 
move with safety. 

5. Typhus fever at once to the hospitals in rear, if possible without entering 
the field general hospital. 

6. Typhoid cases, also, should be sent to the rear, and, in fact, all severe 
cases. The field general hospital should be always almost empty, and ready 
for emergencies. 

These hospitals in rear may be even two to three days' journey off, if convey- 
ance be by water, or one or two days if by rail. Sick and wounded men 
bear movement wonderfully well with proper appliances, and are often indeed 
benefited.* 

The proper position for these hospitals, at the base of operations, must be 
fixed by the commander of the forces at the commencement of a campaign, 
as he alone will know what point will be the base of supplies, and it is of 
importance to have these great hospitals near the large stores which are col- 
lected for a campaign. 

It seems now quite clear that these hospitals should not be the ordinary 
buildings of the country adapted as hospitals. Such a measure seldom suc- 
ceeds, and the mere adaptation is expensive, though probably always imper- 
fect .t Churches should never be taken, as they are not only cold, but often 
damp, and there are often exhalations from vaults. 

The French, Austrian, and American experience is in favour of having the 
hospitals in rear made of tents or wooden huts. The huts are perhaps the best, 
especially if the winter be cold. They have been very largely used by the Federal 
Americans, who have entirely given up converting old buildings into hospitals. 
The best huts which were used in the Eussian war of 1854-56 were those 
erected at Eenkioi from Mr Brunei's design ; each held fifty men in four rows. 
This plan, however, is not so good a one as having only two rows of beds. 
Hammond J states that in the American war the best size has been found to 
be a ward for fifty men with two rows of beds ; length of ward, 175 feet ; 
width, 25 feet ; height, 14 feet ; superficial area per man, 87 feet ; cubic space 
per man, 1200 feet. Ventilation is by the ridge, an opening 10 inches wide, 
running the whole length, and by openings below, which can be more or less 
closed by sliding doors. Some of the American hospitals hold from 2000 to 
2800 beds. It is probable, however, that smaller wards (for 25 men) would 
be better. 

An hospital constructed of such huts can be of any size, but there must be 
several kitchens and laundries if it be very large. If space permit, however, 
it seems desirable to have rather a congeries of smaller hospitals of 500 beds 
each, separated by half a mile of distance, than one large hospital. 

* On this and other points of the like kind, see Report on Hygiene, in the "Army Medical 
Report for 1862," pp. 349, 350. 

f Donald Monro says that, in 1760, the houses in Germany taken for the sick were improved 
by taking away the stoves and putting in open fire-places/ In the Peninsula, the Duke of 
Wellington appeared to have a dread of fever attacking the army. Lusccnibe tells us that the 
Duke asked the principal medical officer every day as to the appearance of fever. He also im- 
proved the hospitals by ordering open fire-places. Luscombe, p. 6. 

+ On Hygiene, p. 355. 

See Report on Hygiene, in the Army Medical Report for 1862, p. 345, et seq., for a fuller 
description. 



HOSPITALS. G17 

The arrangement of the huts must be made according to the principles 
already laid down (p. 301). Dr Hammond writes thus of these hospitals : 

" It will, perhaps, not be out of place again to insist on the great advan- 
tages of these temporary field hospitals over those located in permanent 
buildings in towns. Nothing is better for the sick and wounded, winter and 
summer, than a tent or a ridge-ventilated hut. The experience gained during 
the present war establishes this point beyond the possibility of a doubt. Cases 
of erysipelas or of hospital gangrene occurring in the old buildings, which were 
at one time unavoidably used as hospitals, but which are now almost dis- 
placed for the ridge-ventilated pavilions, immediately commenced to get well 
as soon as removed to the tents. But in one instance that has come to my ' 
knowledge has hospital gangrene originated in a wooden pavilion hospital, 
and in no instance, as far as I am aware, in a tent. Hospital gangrene has 
been exceedingly rare in all our hospitals, but two or three hundred cases 
occurring among the many wounded, amounting to over 100,000 of the loyal 
and rebel troops which have been treated in them. Again, wounds heal more 
rapidly in them, for the reason that the full benefit of the fresh air and the 
light are obtained. Even in fractures the beneficial effects are to be remarked." 
(" On Hygiene," p. 397). 

Baron Larrey, in his useful work,'"" describes the plans adopted by the French 
in the Italian war of 1859. At Constantinople, during the Crimean war, the 
French were apparently very well installed ; the best buildings in Constan- 
tinople were assigned to them, and they were arranged with all the accuracy 
of organisation which distinguishes the French. The results were not, how- 
ever, favourable, especially in the spring of 1856, when typhus spread through 
many of the hospitals, and caused great mortality, t Taught by this expe- 
rience, in 1859 the French distributed their sick in small hospitals whenever 
they could find a building, and in this way the extension of the specific 
diseases was entirely stopped. 

To sum up, the hygiene of field hospitals in war (the rules are derived from 
our own Crimean experience, and that of the wars which have taken place 
since) is as follows : The movable field hospitals (regimental, division, and 
general, in rear) to be made of tents ; the tents being constructed of good size, 
thoroughly ventilated, the flaps being able to be raised so as almost, if desired, 
to make the tent into an awning. 

The ground round the tents to be thoroughly drained, kept very clean, and 
replaced from time to time. The tent floor to be covered with clean, and, if 
possible, dried earth, or charcoal, and to be then covered with a waterproof 
cloth, or boarded, if the camp be one of position. In either case the greatest 
care must be taken that the ground does not get soaked and filthy. Every 
now and then (if possible every ten days or so) the tents should be shifted 
a little. 

If it can be done, the sick should be raised off the ground. Iron bedsteads 
are cumbrous, but small iron pegs stuck in the ground might carry a sort of 
cot or hammock. The advantage of a plan of this kind is, that by means of 

* Notice sur I'Hygiene des Hopitanx Militaires, 1862. 

t Larrey mentions some good instances of the effects of overcrowding. At Rami-Tchifflick, 
the hospital was fixed for 900 by the surgeon in charge, who allowed no more ; it remained 
healthy. His successor increased the beds to 1200 and then to 1400. Typhus became most 
severe, and spared no one (ui infirmiers, ni sceurs, ni medecins). In the hospital at Pera there 
was the same mistake, and the same results. Typhus caused fifty per cent, of the deaths. At 
the hospital of the Ecole Militaire no crowding was permitted, and typhus caused only ten per 
cent, of the deaths. In the French ambulances in the Crimea the same facts were noticed. 
Double and treble numbers were crowded into some, and they were ravaged by typhus ; others 
were not allowed to be crowded, and had little typhus. 



618 WAR. 

holes in the sacking, wounded men can have the close-stool without much 
movement. For fever cases it permits a free movement of air under the 
patient. 

The stationary general hospitals in rear should be of tents or wooden huts, 
but never of converted buildings, or of hospitals used by other nations. Here, 
of course, iron bedsteads, and all the appurtenances of a regular hospital, are 
brought into play. 

Whenever practicable, the rear hospital should have water-closets and 
sewers. At Renkioi, in Turkey, Mr Brunei supplied square wooden sewers 
about fifteen inches to the side ; they were tarred inside, and acted most 
admirably, without leakage, for fifteen months, till the end of the war. The 
water-closets (Jenning's simple syphon), arranged with a small water-box 
below the cistern to economise water, never got out of order, and, in fact, the 
drainage of the hospital was literally perfect. I have little doubt such well- 
tarred wooden sewers would last two or three years. 

There is one danger about wooden hospitals, viz., that of fire. The huts 
should, therefore, on this ground alone, be widely separated ; each hut should 
have, about ten feet from it, an iron -box for refuse. Wooden boxes do not 
answer, as in the winter live cinders get thrown in, and there is danger of 
fire. These boxes should be emptied every morning by the scavengers. 
Water must be laid into every ward. 

The arrangement of the buildings is a simple matter, but must partly be 
determined by the ground. Long open lines are the best. An hospital of 
this kind, completely prepared in England, can be put up at a very rapid rate, 
supposing there be no great amount of earth-work, and that the supply of 
water and of outlet for sewage be convenient. So that, if commenced at once 
at the beginning of a campaign, accommodation Would soon be provided. 

If tents be used for the hospital in rear, they should be much larger than 
those of the movable hospitals. 

Laundry Establishment. 

This part of an hospital must be organised as early, and as perfectly, as pos- 
sible. The different parts must be sent out from England, viz., boiler, drying- 
closet, washing-machines, and wringing-machines. The washing in war can 
never be properly done by the people among whom the war is carried on. 
Every appliance to save labour must be used, and after calculating what 
amount of laundry work has to be done for a presumed number of sick, just 
twice the amount of apparatus should be sent out, partly to insure against 
breakage, partly to meet moments of great pressure. The drying-closet, espe- 
cially, is a most important part of the laundry.* 

Amount of Hospital Accommodation. 

This must not be less than for 25 per cent, of the force, with reserve tents 
in rear in case of need. 

Cemeteries in war must be as far removed as possible ; the graves dug deep, 
and peat charcoal thrown in if it can be procured. Lime is generally used 

* A very good laundry was organised for Eenkioi hospital during the Crimean war, but 
although calculated on a liberal scale, it could hardly keep pace with the work at times. Mr 
Hooper, the superintendent, at the end of the war, devised a movable laundry, carrying boiler, 
drying-closet, and washing-machine. The idea was that this should accompany the troops on 
a march. A small waggon would wash for a large body of men or for an hospital. A plan of 
this kind would be very useful for moving field hospitals. (See " Report on Renkioi Hospital." 
by the Author, 1856.) 



WAR. 619 

instead, but is not quite so good. If charcoal cannot be got, lime must be 
used. If the army is warring on the sea-coast, burial in the sea is the safest 
plan. 

Flying Hospitals. 

For moving columns and excursions, flying hospitals are organised. Medi- 
cal comforts, concentrated foods, wine, brandy, dressing instruments, bedding, 
&c., and perhaps tents, are carried in light carts, or on mules, or camels. If 
it can be done, an old recommendation of Donald Monro seems useful, viz., 
that a baker with flour should accompany, and even a butcher with live stock ; 
but since the use of concentrated foods, the last is perhaps less needed. 



Sanitary Duties connected with a War Hospital. 

In addition to the usual sanitary duties of an hospital, there are one or 
two points which require particular attention in the field. 

The first of these is the possible conveyance of disease by the exceedingly 
dirty clothes, which may perhaps have been worn for weeks even, without re- 
moval, in the hard times of war. Typhus, especially, can be carried in this 
way. 

To provide for this, every hospital should have a tent or building for the 
reception of the clothes ; here they should be sorted, freely exposed to air, 
and the dirty flannels or other filthy clothes picked out. Some of these are 
so bad that they should at once be burnt, and the principal medical officer, at 
the beginning of a campaign, should have authority given him. to do this, and 
to replace the articles from the public store. 

The articles which are not so bad should be cleansed. The cleansing is 
best done in the following way : If the hospital have a laundry and drying- 
closet, they should be put first in the drying-closet for an hour, and the heat 
carried as high as possible, above, if it can be, 240 Fahr. Then they should 
be transferred into the fumigation box ; this is simply a tin-lined box or 
large chest. The clothes are put in this, and sulphur placed above them is 
set on fire, care being taken not to burn the clothes ; or nitrous acid fumes 
should be used. After an hour's detention in the fumigating box they should 
be removed to the soaking tubs. These are large tubs with pure water, put 
in a shed or tent outside the laundry. A little chloride of lime can be added 
to the water. They should soak here for 24 hours, and then go into the 
laundry and be washed as usual. This plan, and especially the heating and 
fumigation, will also kill lice, which often swarm in such numbers. 

Another point of importance is to bathe the men as soon as possible, 
The baths of a war hospital at the base of operations should be on a large 
scale, and the means for getting hot water equally large. The men's heads, 
if lousy, should be washed with a little weak carbolic acid, which kills 
the lice at once. The smell is not agreeable, but that is no of real conse- 
quence. 

In a war hospital, also, the use of charcoal in the wards, charcoal dressings, 
the employment of disinfectants of all kinds, is more necessary than in a 
common hospital. 

As a matter of diet, there should be a large use in the diet of antiscorbutic 
food, vegetables, &c., and antiscorbutic drinks should be in every ward, to 
be taken ad libitum citric acid and sugar, cream of tartar, &c. The bread 
must be very good, and of the finest flour, for the dysenteric cases. 



620 WAR. 



Sieges. 

The sanitary duties during sieges are often difficult. Water is often scarce ; 
disposal of sewage not easy, and the usual modes of disposal of the dead can- 
not, perhaps, be made use of. (For precautions about water, see page 47.) 
If sewage is not washed away, and if there is no convenient plan of removing 
it by hand, it must be burnt. Mixing it with gunpowder may be adopted if 
there is no straw or other combustible material to put with it. 

If food threaten to run short, the medical officer should remember how 
easily Dr Morgan's process of salting meat can be applied (see page 166), and 
in this way cattle or horses which are killed for want of forage, or are shot in 
action, can be preserved. For sieges, as vegetables are sure to fall short, a 
very ample supply of lemon-juice, and of citric acid, citrates, and creain of 
tartar, should be laid in, and distributed largely. 

One other point should be brought to the notice of the general in com- 
mand. In times of pressure, every man who can be discharged from the 
hospital is sent to the front. This cannot always be avoided. But when 
there is less pressure, the men should go from the rear hospitals to a depot, 
and while there should still be considered under medical treatment, so that 
they may not too soon be subjected to the hardships of war. They should, 
in fact, be subjected again to a sort of training, as if they were just entering 
en the war. If this is not done, a number of sickly or half-cured men get 
into the ranks, who may break down in a moment of emergency, and cause 
great difficulty to the general in command. Some officers think that a man 
should either be in hospital or at his full duty ; this seems to me a misap- 
prehension both of the facts and of the best way of meeting them. To 
transfer a man just cured, from the comforts of an hospital at once to the 
front, is to run great danger. A depot, which should be a sort of conva- 
lescent -hospital, though not under that term, is the proper place to 
thoroughly strengthen the man just recovered for the arduous work before 
him. 



INDEX. 



p 
Ablution rooms in barracks, 
rooms in India, 
Abscissae, axis of, 
Acarus in flour .... 


AGE 

289 
300 
485 
186 
382 
554 
, 69 
71 
299 
86 
136 
95 
440 
133 

112 

309 
91 
82 
67 
88 
419 
201 
391 
423 
166 
440 
408 
508 
351 
513 
443 
337 
128 
223 
594 
484 

81 
547 
543 
205 
187 
411 
281 
291 
283 
294 
282 
293 
292 
288 
333 
211 
190 
165 
230 
234 
231 
547 
392 
197 


PAGE 

Boots, .... 379 


Bread, .... 197 


dried 228 




Accoutrements, 
African stations, .... 
Air, amount of, in barracks, . 67 


Brickfield, air of, . . . .106 


British Columbia, .... 553 
Guiana, . . . . 546 
Brocklesby, Dr, on hospitals, . . 310 
Bronchitis, from water, ... 55 
Buckwheat, , 208 
drawings of, . . . .194 
Butter, 220 








impure eifects of, . 
impurities in, . . 71, 
movement of, . . , 
movement of, from unequal 
weight, .... 


examination of, . . . 221 

Campaigns, clothing in, . . . 366 
Camps, 302, 306 








Canada 549 




Canteen, 395 

Cape-coast Castle, .... 556 
Cape of Good Hope, . . . .557 
Carbon in food, .... 146 
Carbonic acid, determination of, inair, 137 
Carniset, 226 
Carriage of weights, . . . 389 
Carter, Colonel, his knapsack, . . 392 
Causes of sickness in home service, . 518 
Cells in barracks, .... 290 
Ceylon, 660 
Cheese, 222 
Chesshire, Mr, his intercepting tank, 328 
Chevers, Dr, Norman, on hygiene, . 563 
China, 592 
Cholera, during inarches, . . . 360 


T suspended matters in, . 


Alum in bread 
Ammunition, carriage of, . 
Anemometer, .... 133, 
Animals, inspection of, . 


Apjohn, Dr, his formula, . 
Armies, mortality among, 
Army, gymnastic exercises of, . 
- French mortility of 508 




Arnot, Dr Neil, on warming, 
Arnott, Dr, ventilating pump, . 


Australia, 
Averages, 

Bacterium in air 
Bahamas, 
Barbadoes, ..... 
Barley, ..*... 


' f* AAi 


Churchyard, air of, . . . .79 
effects of 105 


Cirrus, 426 


Climate, 429 


Clothing, 365 
materials of, . . . . 367 


Barometer, 


Clouds, 426 
Cocoa, . 257 
Coffee, . . . . . .250 
Cold climates, clothing in, . . 367 
Combustion, effects of, . . 77 


cavalry, .... 


in hot climates, 




V -UT/' * f * 


Condiments, 259 
Conformation of soils, . . . 266 
Cotton clothing 368 
Crimea, clothing in the, . . . 366 
Cubic space in barracks, ... 67 


t'1 H f ' * 




Beans, composition of, . . 210, 
Bean-flour, drawings of, . 
Beef, composition of, . .149, 
Beer 


Cumulus, 426 
Cysticerci, detection of, . . .169 


adulteration of, . 


Bermuda, ...... 
Berrington, Mr, his pack, . 
Biscuit, 


Deaths, causes of, on home service, . 510 
Demerara. . 546 



622 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Deodorants, 330 
Desaguliers on ventilation, . . 126 


PAGE 

Forts and citadels, . . . .293 
Fungi in the air, . . . 81-91 

Gambia, 556 
Gangrene, hospital, prevention of, . 457 
Garments, soldiers', .... 372 
Gas, products of, . . . .78 


Dewpoint, ...... 
Diarrhoea, from water, 


407 
57 
458 
157 
151 
139 
602 
82 
347 
354 
327 
54 
458 

328 
331 
222 
427 
442 
209 
597 
306 
65 
382 
385 
457 
422 
338 
344 
489 
227 

456 
309 
456 
512 
445 
455 
454 
445 
392 
46 
39 
172 
372 
179 
187 
180 
139 
145 
225 
162 
161 
161 
159 
145 
143 
225 

158 
527 


Diet, Hindu, ..... 
Diets, calculation of, . . . 149, 


Gibraltar, 529 
Glaisher, Mr, his factors, . . .407 
Goitre, 63 
Greatcoat, . . . .381, 395 


Disembarkation, duties during, . 
Disinfectants of air, .... 
Drill, shot, work in, . 
Drills, 
Dry method of removing sewage, 
Dysentery, from water, 
prevention of, ... 

Earth closets, 
dry, as disinfectant, 
Eggs, 
Electricity, 
a climatic agency, 
Eleusine corocana, .... 
Embarkation, duties during, 
Encampments, 
Entozoa in water, .... 
Equipment of cavalry, 


Guard-room, 290 
Gymnasium, duties of medical officers in, 352 
Gymnastic exercises, . . . 349 

Habitations 280 
Haughton, Prof., his formula for work, 346 
Havresac, 395 
Head-dress, soldiers', . . . 373 
Heat in shade, effect of, . . . 432 
Height, average 601 
Heights, measurement by barometer, 415 
Helmets, 375 
Home service, ..... 506 
Honduras, 547 
Hong-Kong, 592 
Hospital ships 604 
tents 30 


Erysipelas, prevention of, . 
Evaporation, 
Exercise, 


Hospitals, 308 


Houses, causes of unhealthiness in, . 280 
Humidity of air, .... 406 
effect of on health 434 


Expectation of life, .... 
Extractum carnis, .... 

Fevers, bilious, prevention of, . 


Huts in war, 301 


- wooden 300 


Hygienic management, individual, . 477 
Hygrometers, 406 

India, . . 563 


,. ' i- ' f ' 


Fever, continued, in the army, 


barrack" in 94 








.,_. clothing in 366 367 


11 t' f ' 


hospitals in 319 


Field kit, carriage of, ... 
Filters, portable, for soldiers, . 
Filtration of water, .... 
Fish, poisonous, .... 
Flannel, 
Flour ...... 






soil of, 664 


India-rubber clothing, . . . 371 
Inlet-tubes, 115 
Insolation, .... 360, 462 

Jamaica 639 
James, Sir Henry, work on meteorology, 400 
Jute 369 

Kit, soldiers', 366 
Kitchens in barracks, . . . 289 
Knapsack, 392 

Lagos 654 
Lathyrus sativus, . . . .211 
Latrines in barracks, . . . 291 
Lead, acted on by water, ... 44 
Leather, 371 


adulterations of, . 
examination, 
Food 












in sickness, .... 
nitrogenous, 


preserved 
Force, mechanical, derived from food, 
139, 
Foreign service, .... 



INDEX. 



623 



] 
Leggings, 
Leguminosse, ..... 


PAGE 

379 
210 
264 
265 
606 
269 
368 
406 
460 
328 
427 

331 
616 
120 
207 
189 
441 
55 
532 
133 
223 
354 
360 
361 
356 
302 
107 
271 
659 
402 
164 
225 
176 
169 
171 
177 
527 
196 
400 
313 
220 
214 
228 
206 
219 
208 
195 
81 
134 
549 
487 
488 
584 
508 
328 
435 
260 
81 

553 
653 
594 
29 


PAGE 

Nightingale, Miss, her plan for hospitals, 310 
Nitrogen in food, .... 146 
Nova Scotia 553 

Oats, 206 


substitutes for, 
Life of the soldier, .... 
Light, reflection of, by soil, 
Linen clothing, .... 
Lines, isothermal, .... 
Liver diseases, prevention of, . 
Lloyd, Mr, plan of removing sewage, 
Lowe, Mr, ozone papers, . 

M'Dougall's powder, 
M'Grigor, Sir James, his rules in war, 
M'Kinnell, Mr, his ventilating tubes, 
Maize, ...... 


Ophthalmia, military, . . . 466 
Outlet tubes 115 
Ozone, 426, 440 

Pack, 392 
Panicum, 209 
Parent-Duchatelet, his opinions on 
sewage air, .... 99 
Pasteur, observations of, . . .81 
Pea flour, drawings of, . . .191 
Peas, composition of, ... 200 
Penicillaria, 209 
Perchloride of iron as disinfectant, . 331 
Pepper, 262 
Phthisis, causes of, . . . .96 


Malaria, 
Malarious fevers from water, 
Malta, 
Manometer, 
Maranta arundinacea, 
Marches, 
diseases during, . 


production from impure air, . 96 
pulmonalis, prevention of, . 463 
Plague, prevention of, . . 455 
Potato starch, drawing of, . . 188 
Potatoes, . . . . .212 
sweet, 213 
Poudrette, 327 
Puccinia in flour, .... 185 

Quebec, 549 

Radiation of warmth, . . . 335 
Eain 420 


Marching, length of step in, . 355, 
Marquee, hospital, .... 
Marshes, air of, ... 80, 
composition of, 
Mauritius, 
Mean temperature, calculation of, 
Meat, 


biscuits, .... 


dead inspection of 






silt 1 70 




Mediterranean stations, 
Melampyrum in flour, 
Meteorology, ..... 
Military hospitals, .... 
Milk adulterations .... 
cow's, 
dried, 


Recruit, age of, .... 499 
physical training of, . . 502 
service of, . . . 496 
Rhodes, Major, on tents, . . . 304 
Rice, 208 
drawings of, . . .192 
Romans, their rules in war, . .611 
Rye 207 


examination of, . 


Millet, 


Sago, 225 
Sagus farinifera, .... 225 
Salt, 264 
Sanitaria in India, . . . .571 
Scurvy, 463 
Septic state of the air, . . .81 
Service, foreign, .... 557 
.. ... home 506 


Mines, air in, . 
Montgolfier, formula of, . 
Montreal, 
Mortality in England, 






Moule, Mr, his earth closets, 
Movement of air, .... 
Mustard, 
Mycoderms in air, .... 

New Brunswick, .... 
Newfoundland, .... 
New Zealand, 
Nicholson, Mr, analysis of water, 


Sewage, deodorants, . . . 330 


3,3 effects of 99 


Sewerage, 322 


Sewers, discharge of, ... 323 
size of, 322 
Ships, air in the holds of, . . 81 


Sick-rooms, air of, . . . .76 



624 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Sickness among recruits, . . . 605 


PAGE 

[Youbridge, Sir Thomas, his yoke 
and valise, 393 
Tunic, 377 
Typhoid fever from sewer air, . . 101 


vice, .... 


518 
514 
486 
590 
555 
369 
278 
279 
270 
268 
266 
273 
431 
401 
150 
496 
209 
131 
85 
82 
241 
292 
223 
485 
479 
492 
305 
426 
104 
554 
545 
223 
519 

224 

228 
254 
3o7 
401 
430 
302 
401 
603 
637 
549 
81 
224 
80 
, 347 
596 
169 
175 
196 
542 
294 
319 
378 










Typhus, prevention of, . . 454 
Jrinals in barracks, . . . .291 
Vegetables, dried, .... 228 


Silk clothing, ..... 






Soil, chemical constitution of, . 


Vegetation on soils, . . . .267 
Venereal diseases, . . . 468, 519 
Ventilation, 108 


Soils 


healthiness of, 
Solar heat, effect of, 






Soldier, food of, . .143, 
service of, . 
Sorghum, . . 
Space, cubic measurement of, . 
Specific diseases, disinfectants in, 
Splenic apoplexy, bacteria in, . 




ft ' 1 Vi 'l " ' <>Qft 


- of hospitals 311 


Vinegar, 259 
Voyages, 600 

Walking, work done in, . . . 346 
War, 606 


Stables over barracks, 


sickness in, . . . .612 
Warming of barrack rooms, . . 287 
Warmth, kinds of, . . . 335 


Statistical inquiries, important, 
Statistics, 
army, . . . 
Stewart, Colonel, tent of, 


degree of, for sick people, . 334 
Water, 1 


Streams polluted by sewage, effects of, 
St Helena . 




St Lucia 


,.^ rt 1 -fcJ If ' " 11 






Syphilis, 468 




^ ^4.,-^ 1^ * * on 




Taylor, Mr, plan of sewage removal, 
Tea 






Temperate climate, clothing in, 
Temperature of air, .... 








TV nts 




Thermometers, . ... 
Tobacco, . ... 
Tobago, barracks at, . 
Toronto, 
Torulse in air, 
Tous les mois, 
Trades, gases from, .... 
Training . . . 338 


sewage, composition of, . 325 


Water-closets 312, 327 
Weight of air, effect of, on health, . 435 
Weights, carriage of, ... 389 
West Indies, . . . . .636 
Wheat, 178 
flour, drawings of, . . 182 
Wind, ...... 423 
Winds, action of, in ventilation, . 109 
Wines, . . ' . . . .236 
Wool, . ... 370 


Transports, . . . . 
Trichinae, detection of, . 
diseases produced by, . 
Trifolium in flour, . 
Trinidad, 
Tropics, barracks in, . 


Yellow fever, prevention of, . . 447 


TrmiQAra 





PIUXTFD BY NEILL AND COMPANY, EDINBURC.H. 



London, New Burlington Street, 
October, 1866. 



MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS' 




IN 



MEDICINE 



AND THE VARIOUS BRANCHES OF 



NATUKAL SCIENCE. 




" It would be unjust to conclude this notice without saying a few words in favour of 
Mr. Churchill, from whom the profession is receiving, it may be truly said, the most 
beautiful series of Illustrated Medical Works which has ever been published." Lancet. 

" All the publications of Mr. Churchill are prepared with so much taste and neatness, 
that it is superfluous to speak of them in terms of commendation." Edinburgh 
Medical and Surgical Journal. 

" No one is more distinguished for the elegance and rechercht style of his publica- 
tions than Mr. Churchill." Provincial MediculJournal. 

"Mr. Churchill's publications are very handsomely got up: the engravings are 
remarkably well executed." Dublin Medical Press. 

"The typography, illustrations, and getting up are, in all Mr. Churchill's publi- 
cations, most beautiful." Monthly Journal of Medical Science. 

" Mr. Churchill's illustrated works are pmong the best that emanate from the 
Medical Press." Medical Times. 

" We have before called the attention of both students and practitioners to the great 
advantage which Mr. Churchill has conferred on the profession, in the issue, at such a 
moderate cost, of works so highly creditable in point of artistic execution and scientific 
merit." Dublin Quarterly Journal. 



r^ 
ra 




MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS are the Publishers of the following Periodicals, offering to 
Authors a wide extent of Literary Announcement, and a Medium of Advertisement, 
addressed to all Classes of the Profession. 



THE BRITISH AND FOREIGN MEDICO- 

GHIRURGIGAL REVIEW, 
QUARTERLY JOURNAL 0? PRACTICAL MEDICINE 

AND SURGERY. 
Price Six Shillings. Nos. L to LXXVI. 

THE QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF 

SCIENCE. 
Price Five Shillings. Nos. I. to XIL 



THE QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF 

MICROSCOPICAL SCIENCE, 
INCLUDING THE TBANSACTIONS OF THE MICROS- 
COPICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON. 
Edited by DR. LANKESTER, F.R.S., and GEOKOE 
BUSK, F.R.S. Price 4*. Nos. I. to XXIV. 
New Series. 



THE JOURNAL OF MENTAL SCIENCE. 
By authority of the Medico-Psychological 

Association. 
Edited by C. L. ROBERTSON, M.D., and HENRY 

MADDSLEY, M.D. 

Published Quarterly, price Half-a-Crown. New 
Series. Nos. I. to XXIIL 



ARCHIVES OF MEDICINE: 
A Record of Practical Observations and Anato- 
mical and Chemical Researches, connected 
with the Investigation and Treatment of 
Disease. Edited by Dr. LIONEL S. BEALE, 
F R.S. Published Quarterly ; Nos. I. to VIII., 
35. 6d.; IX. to XII., 25. Gd., XIII. to XV., 3s. 



ARCHIVES OF DENTISTRY: 

Edited by EDWIN TRUMAN. Published Quarterly, 
priced. Nos. I. to IV. 



THE YEAR-BOOK^ OF PHARMACY 

CHEMISTS' DESK COMPANION 

FOR 1866. 

BEING A PRACTICAL SUMMARY OP RESEARCHES 

IN PHAKMACY, MATERIA MEDICA, 

AND PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISTRY, DURING 

THE YEAR 1865. 

Edited by CHARLES H. WOOD, F.C.S., and 
CHAB. SHARP. Price 25. 6d. 



THE ROYAL LONDON OPHTHALMIC HOSPITAL 

REPORTS, AND JOURNAL OF OPHTHALMIC 

MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 

Vol. V., Part 2, 2*. 6d. 



THE MEDICAL TIMES & GAZETTE. 
Published Weekly, price Sixpence, or Stamped, 

Sevenpence. 

Annual Subscription, 1. 6s., or Stamped, 
1. 105. 4d, and regularly forwarded to all 
parts of the Kingdom. 



THE HALF-YEARLY ABSTRACT OF 
THE MEDICAL SCIENCES. 

Being a Digest of the Contents of the principal 
British and Continental Medical Works; 
together with a Critical Report of the Pro- 
gress of Medicine and the Collateral Sciences. 
Post 8vo. cloth, 65. Gd. Vols. I. to XLIII. 



THE PHARMACEUTICAL JOURNAL, 

CONTAINING THE TRANSACTIONS OF THE PHAH- 

UACEUTICAL SOCIETY. 

Published Monthly, price One Shilling. 

V Vols. I. to XXV., bound in cloth, price 

125. Gd. each. 



THE BRITISH JOURNAL OF DENTAL 

SCIENCE. 

Published Monthly, price One Shilling. Nos. 
I. to CXXIII. 



THE MEDICAL DIRECTORY FOR THE 
UNITED KINGDOM. 

Published Annually. 8vo. cloth, 10*. Gd. 



ANNALS OF MILITARY AND NAVAL 

SURGERY AND TROPICAL MEDICINE 

AND HYGIENE, 

Embracing the experience of the Medical Offi- 
cers of Her Majesty's Armies and Fleets in 
all parts of the World. 

Vol. L, price 7*. 



30- 



A CLASSIFIED INDEX 

TO 

IESSIS. CI1RCHLL & mm' EATAL8CTE. 




ANATOMY. 


DISEASES OF WOMEN 


MATERIA MEDICA and 


Anatomical Remembrancer . . 3 


AND CHILDREN. 


PHARMACY continued. ?A01t 


Flower on Nerves 11 
Hassali's Micros. Anatomy .. 14 
Heale's Anatomy of the Lungs 14 


Bird on Children 6 
Bryant's Surg. Diseases of Child. 7 
Eyre's Practical Remarks . . 11 


Squire's Hospital Pharmacopeias 26 
Do. Companion to the Phar- 


Heath's Practical Anatomy .. 15 


Harrison on Children . . . . 14 


Steggall's First Lines for Che- 


Holden's Human Osteology . . 15 


Hood on Scarlet Fever, &c. . . 16 


mists and Druggists . . . . 26 


Do. on Dissections .. ..15 
Ffuxley's Comparative Anatomy 16 


Kiwisch (ed. by Clay) on Ovaries 9 
Lee's Ovarian & Uterine Diseases 18 


Stowe's Toxicological Chart . . 27 
Taylor on Poisons 27 


Jones' and Sieveking's Patho- 


Do. on Speculum 18 


Waring's Therapeutics .. ..29 


logical Anatomy 17 


Ritchie on Ovaries 23 


Wittstein's Pharmacy .. ..31 


Maclise's Surgical Anatomy . . 19 


Seymour on Ovaria 25 




St. Bartholomew's Hospital 


Smith on Leucorrhoea . . . . 26 


MEDICINE. 


Catalogue 24 


Tilt on Uterine Inflammation . . 28 


Adams on Rheumatic Gout . . 3 


Sibson's Medical Anatomy . . 25 
Waters' Anatomy of Lung . . 29 


Do. Uterine Therapeutics . . 28 
Do. on Change of Life . . . . 28 


Addison on Cell Therapeutics . . 3 
Do. on Healthy and Dis- 


Wheeler's Anatomy for Artists 30 


Underwood on Children . . . . 29 


eased Structure 3 


Wilson's Anatomy 31 


Wells on the Ovaries 30 


Aldis's Hospital Practice . . . . 3 


~^w\^v^ 


West on Women 30 


Anderson (Andrew) on Fever . . ' 


CHEMISTRY. 


Do. (Uvedale) on Puerp. Diseases 30 


Do. (ThosJ on Yellow Fever 


Abel & Bloxam's Handbook . . 3 
Bernays' Notes for Students . . 6 


GENERATIVE' ORGANS, 


Austin on Paralysis 
Barclay on Medical Diagnosis . . 


Bowman's Practical Chemistry 7 
Do. Medical do. ..7 
Fownes' Manual of Chemistry . . 12 
Do. Actonian Prize .. ..12 


Diseases of, and SYPHILIS. 

Acton on Reproductive Organs 3 
Coote on Syphilis 10 
Gant on Bladder 13 


Do. on Gout 
Barlow's Practice of Medicine 
Uasham on Dropsy 
Brinton on Stomach 


Do. Qualitative Analysis ..12 
Fresenius' Chemical Analysis . . 12 


Hutchinson on Inherited Syphilis 16 
Judd on Syphilis 17 


Do. on Ulcer of do. 
Budd on the Liver 8 


Galloway's First Step .. ..12 
Do. Second Step .. ..12 
Do. Analysis 12 


Lee on Syphilis 18 
Parker on Syphilis .* .. ..21 
Wilson on Syphilis 31 


Do. on Stomach 8 
Camplin on Diabetes 8 
Chambers on Digestion . . . 8 


Do. Tables 12 




Do. Lectures 8 


Griffiths' Four Seasons .. ..13 


TJVrtTTn^nr 


Uockle on Cancer 9 


Horsley's Chem. Philosophy .. 16 
Mulder on the Chemistry of Wine 20 
Plattner & Muspratton Blowpipe22 
Speer's Pathol. Chemistry . . 26 
Button's Volumetric Analysis . 27 


XI JL VTJ.JLJM Xi . 

Armstrong on Naval Hygiene 4 
Beale's Laws of Health .. ..6 
Do. Health and Disease . . 5 
Bennet on Nutrition 6 
Carter on Training 8 


Davey'sGanglionic Nervous Syst. 10 
Syre on Stomach 11 
French on Cholera 12 
Fuller on Rheumatism . . . . 12 
Gairdner on Gout . . . . . . 12 
Gibb on Throat . .13 


CLIMATE. 


Chavasse's Advice to a Mother . . 9 
Do. Advice to a Wife . . 9 


Granville on Sudden Death .. 13 
Griffith on the Skin 13 


Aspinall on San Remo . . . . 4 
Bennet's Winter in the South of 


DobelTs Germs and Vestiges of 
Disease 11 


Bully's Simple Treatment . . 13 
Elabershon on the Abdomen . . 13 


Europe 6 


Do. Diet and Regimen . . 11 


Do. on Mercury . . . . 18 


Chambers on Italy 8 
Dalrymple on Egypt 10 


Fife & Urquhart on Turkish Bath 1 1 
Gordon on Army Hygiene . . 13 


Hall (Marshall) on Apncea ..14 
Do. Observations . . 14 


Francis on Change of Climate . . 12 
Hall on Torquay 14 
Haviland on Climate 14 


Granville on Vichy 13 
Hartwig on Sea Bathing . . . . 14 
Do. Physical Education 14 


Headland Action of Medicines 14 
Hooper's Physician's Vade- 
Mecum 13 


Lee on Climate 18 
Do. Watering Places of England 18 


Hufeland's Art of prolonging Life 16 
Lee's Baths of France, Germany, 


Inman's New Theory .. ..16 
Do. Myalgia 16 


McClelland on Bengal .. ..19 
McNicoll on Southport .. .. 19' 
Martin on Tropical Climates .. 20 
Moore's Diseases of India . . 20 


and Switzerland 18 
Moore's Health in Tropics . . 20 
Parkes on Hygiene 21 
Parkin on Disease 21 


James on Laryngoscope . . . . 17 
Maclachlan on Advanced Life . . 19 
Marcet on Chronic Alcoholism 19 
Macpherson on Cholera . . . 20 


Scoresby-Jackson's Climatology 24 
Shapter on South Devon . . . . 25 


Pearse's Notes on Health . . ..21 
Pickford on Hygiene . . . . 22 


Markham on Bleeding . . .20 
Meryon on Paralysis . . .20 


Siordet on Mentone 25 
Taylor on Pau and Pyrenees . . 27 


Robertson on Diet 24 
Routh on Infant Feeding . . . . 23 


Nicholson on Yellow Fever . 21 
Parkin on Cholera 21 


^WN^S^VN^ 


Tunstall'g Bath Waters .. ..28 


Pavy on Diabetes 21 


DEFORMITIES, &c. 


Wells' Seamen's Medicine Chest 30 


Peet's Principles and Practice 




Wife's Domain 30 


of Medicine 21 


Bigg's Orthopraxy 6 
Bishop on Deformities ... 6 


Wilson on Healthy Skin .. ..31 
Do. on Mineral Waters .. 31 


Richardson's Asclepiad . . .23 
Roberts on Palsy 23 


Do. Articulate Sounds . 6 


Do. on Turkish Bath .. ..31 


Robertson on Gout 24 


Brodhurst on Spine 7 
Do. on Clubfoot ... 7 


MATERIA~MEDICA and 


Savory's Compendium . . .24 
Semple on Cough 24 


Godfrey on Spine 13 


PHARMACY. 


Seymour on Dropsy 25 


Hugman on Hip Joint .. . 16 


Bateman's Magnacopia . . . . 5 


Shaw's Remembrancer .. . J6 


Salt on Lower Extremities . . 24 


Beasley's Formulary . . . . , . 5 


Smee on Debility 25 


Tamplin on Spine 27 


Do. Receipt Book . . . . 5 


Thomas' Practice of Physic .. 87 


^^xvwvyv 


Do. Book of Prescriptions 5 


Thudichum on Gall Stones . . 28 


DISEASES OF WOMEN 
AND CHILDREN. 


Frazer's Materia Medica . . . . 12 
Nevins' Analysis of Pharmacop. 20 
Pereira's Selects, e Prsescriptis 21 


Todd's Clinical Lectures . . . . 28 
Tweedie on Continued Fevers 29 
Walker on Diphtheria .. ..29 


Ballard on Infants and Mothers 4 


Pharmacopoeia Londinensis . . 22 


What to Observe at the Bedside 19 


Bennet on Uterus 6 


Prescriber's Pharmacopoeia . . 22 


Williams' Principles 30 


. Do. on Uterine Pathology . .' 6 


Royle's Materia Medica .. ..24 


Wright on Headaches .. ..31 



CLASSIFIED INDEX. 



MICROSCOPE. PAO , 
Beale on Microscope in Medicine 5 
Carpenter on Microscope . . . . 8 
Schacht on do. .... 24 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Acton on Prostitution . . . . 3 
Barclay's Medical Errors . . . . 4 
Barker & Edwards' Photographs 4 
Bascome on Epidemics . . . . 5 
Elaine's Veterinary Art .. ..7 
Bourguignon on the Cattle Plague 7 
Bryce on Sevastopol 7 
Buckle's Hospital Statistics .. 7 
Cooley's Cyclopaedia 9 


OPHTHALMOLOGY-c ^ d - 

Jago on Entoptics 17 
Jones' Ophthalmic Medicine .. 17 
Do. Defects of Sight .. ..17 
Do. Eye and Ear 17 
Macnamara on the Eye . . ..19 
Nunneley on the Organs of Vision 2 
Solomon on Glaucoma . . . . 26 
Walton on the Eye 29 
Wells on Spectacles 30 

PHYSIOLOGY. 

Carpenter's Human 8 
Do. Manual 8 
Heale on Vital Causes .. ,.14 
Richardson on Coagulation . . 23 
Shea's Animal Physiology .... 25 
Virchow's (ed. by Chance) Cel- 
lular Pathology 8 

PSYCHOLOGY. 

Arlidge on the State of Lunacy 4 
Bucknill and Tuke's Psycholo- 
gical Medicine 8 
Conolly on Asylums 9 
Davey on Nature of Insanity .-. 10 
Dunn's Physiological Psychology 1 1 
Hood on Criminal Lunatics . . 15 
Millingen onTreatmentof Insane20 
Noble on Mind 21 
Sankey on Mental Diseases . . 24 
Williams (J. H.) Unsoundness of 
Mind 30 


SCIENCE continued. 

PAG* 

Howard on the Clouds . . . . 16 
Jones on Vision 17 
Do. on Body, Sense, and Mind 17 
Mayne's Lexicon 20 
Noad on the Inductorium .. 21 
Pratt's Genealogy of Creation . . 22 
Do. Eccentric & Centric Force 22 
Do. on Orbital Motion . . . . 22 
Do.Astronomicallnvestigations 22 
Do. Oracles of God 22 
Price's Photographic Manipula- 
tion .. 22 


Rainey on Shells 23 
Reymond's Animal Electricity 23 
Taylor's Medical Jurisprudence 27 
Unger's Botanical Letters . . 29 
Vestiges of Creation 29 

SURGERY. 

Adams on Reparation of Tendons 3 
Do. Subcutaneous Surgery 3 
Anderson on the Skin . . . . 3 
Ashton on Rectum 4 
Brodhurst on Anchylosis . . . . 7 
Bryant on Diseases of Joints . . 7 
Callender on Rupture 8 
Chapman on Ulcers 8 
Do. Varicose Veins . . . . 8 
Clark's Outlines of Surgery . . 9 
Collis on Cancer 9 
Cooper (Sir A.) on Testis . . . . 9 
Do. (S.) Surg. Dictionary 9 
Coulson on Lithotomy .. ..10 
Curling on Rectum .. ,, ..10 
Do. on Testis 10 
Druitt's Surgeon's Vade-Mecum 1 1 
Fayrer's Clinical Surgery ..11 
Fergusson's Surgery 11 
Gamgee's Amputation at Hip-j oint 1 2 
Gant's Principles of Surgery .. 13 
Heath's Minor Surgery and 
Bandaging 15 
Higginbottom on Nitrate of Silver 15 
Hodgson on Prostate J 5 
Holt on Stricture .. .. ..15 
James on Hernia 17 
Jordan's Clinical Surgery . . 17 
Lawrence's Surgery 18 
Do. Ruptures la 
Lee on the Rectum, &c, .. .. 18 
Listen's Surgery 18 


Gordon on China . . . . 3 


Graves' Physiology and Medicine 3 
Guy's Hospital Reports .. .. 3 
Harrison on Lead in Water . . 4 
Hingeston's Topics of the Day . . 5 
Howe on Epidemics .. .. ..16 
Lane's Hydropathy .. .. ..18 
Lee on Homoeop. and Hydrop. 18 
London Hospital Reports .. . 19 
Marcet on Food 19 


Massy on Recruits 20 
Mayne's Medical Vocabulary . 20 
Part's Case Book 21 
Redwood's Supplement to Phar- 
macopoeia 23 
Ryan on Infanticide 24 
St. George's Hospital Reports . . 24 
Simm's Winter in Paris .. ..25 
Snow on Chloroform 26 
SteggaU's Medical Manual .. 26 
Do. Gregory's Conspectus 26 
Do. Celsus 26 
Whitehead on Transmission . . 30 

NERVOUS~DISORDERS 
w AND INDIGESTION. 
Birch on Constipation . . . . 6 
Carter on Hysteria 8 
Downing on Neuralgia . . ..11 
Hunt on Heartburn 16 
Jones (Handfleld) on Functional 
Nerrous Disorders 17 
Leared on Imperfect Digestion 18 
Lobb on Nervous Affections . . 19 
Radcliffe on Epilepsy . . . . 22 
Reynolds on the Brain . . . . 23 
Do. on Epilepsy . . . . 23 
Rowe on Nervous Diseases . . 24 
Sieveking on Epilepsy . . . . 25 
Turnbull on Stomach,. . . . . 28 

OBSTETRICS. 

Barnes on Placenta Prsevia . . 5 
Hodges on PuerperalConvulsions 15 
Lee's Clinical Midwifery . . . . 18 
Do. Consultations 18 
Leishman's Mechanism of Par- 
turition 18 


PULMONARY and CHEST 
DISEASES, &c. 

Alison on Pulmonary Consump- 
tion 8 


Barker on the Lungs . . . . 4 
Billing on Lungs and Heart . . 6 
Bright on the Chest 7 
Cotton on Consumption .. ..10 
Do. on Stethoscope .. ..10 
Davies on Lungs and Heart . . 10 
Dobell on the Chest 11 
Do. on Tuberculosis . . ..11 
Do. on Winter Cough .. ..11 
Fenwick on Consumption.. ..11 
Fuller on Chest .. .. ,. .. 12 
Do. on Heart 12 
Jones (Jas.) on Consumption.. 17 
Laennec on Auscultation ,. .. 17 
tfarkham on Heart 20 
Peacock on the Heart .. .21 
Richardson on Consumption . 23 
salter on Asthma . . , . .24 
skoda on Auscultation . . .20 
Thompson on Consumption . 27 
Timms on Consumption . . .28 
Turnbull on Consumption . 28 
Waters on Emphysema . . .29 
Weber on Auscultation , . .29 

RENAL anTuRINARY 
DISEASES. 

Acton on Urinary Organs . . 8 
Beale on Urine .... , , 6 


Logan on Skin Diseases . . .*. 19 
Macleod's Surgical Diagnosis .. 19 
Do. Surgery of the Crimea 19 
Maclise on Fractures 19 
Maunder's Operative Surgery . . 20 
Nunneley on Erysipelas .. ..21 
Pirrie's Surgery 22 
Price on Excision of Knee-joint 22 
Salt on Rupture 24 


Sansom on Chloroform . . . . 24 
Smith (Hy.) on Stricture . . . . 25 
Do. on Haemorrhoids . . . . 25 
Do.ontheSurgeryof theRectum 25 
Do. (Dr. J.) Dental Anatomy 
and Surgery 26 
Steggall's Surgical Manual . . 26 
Teale on Amputation . . . . 27 
Thompson on Stricture . . . . 27 
Do. on Prostate .. ..27 
Do. Lithotomy and Lithotrity 27 
Tomes' Dental Surgery . . . . 28 
foynbee on Ear 28 
Wade on Stricture 29 
Webb's Surgeon's Ready Rules 29 
Williamson on Military Surgery 30 
Do. on Gunshot Injuries 30 
WUson on Skin Diseases . . . . 31 
Do. Portraits of Skin Diseases 81 
Yearsley on Deafness .. ..31 
Do. on Throat 31 

, , , >,. ...^J3 U K3 ( V 


Mackenzie on PhlegmasiaDolens 19 
Pretty's Aids during Labour . . 22 
Priestley on Gravid Uterus . . 22 
Ramsbotham's Obstetrics . . . . 23 
Do. Midwifery.. .. 23 
Sinclair & Johnston's Midwifery 25 
Smellie's Obstetric Plates . . . . 25 
Smith's Manual of Obstetrics . . 26 
Swayne's Aphorisms 27 
Waller's Midwifery 29 

OPHTHALMOLOGY. 

Cooper on Injuries of Eye . . 9 
Do. on Near Sight . . . . 9 
Dalrymple on Eye 10 
Dixon on the Eye 10 
Hogg on Ophthalmoscope .. 15 
Hulke on the Ophthalmoscope 16 
Jacob on Eye-ball is 

:fife^ 


Jird's Urinary Deposits . . . . 6 
Coulson on Bladder 10 
lassall on Urine ., .. ..14 
'arkes on Urine 21 
Thudichum on Urine . . . . 28 
Todd on Urinary Organs . . . . 28 

SCIENCE. 

Baxter on Organic Polarity . . 5 
Jentley's Manual of Botany . . 6 
Jird's Natural Philosophy . . 6 
>aig on Electric Tension . . 10 
Hardwich's Photography . . . . 14 
Hinds' Harmonies 15 



MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS* PUBLICATIONS. 8 

&*- 

MR. F. A. ?ABEL, F.R.S., &, MR. C. L. BLOXAM. 

HANDBOOK OF CHEMISTRY: THEORETICAL, PRACTICAL, 

AND TECHNICAL. Second E ^i^_^^>th, 15s. 
MR. ACTONTIv^R-C.S. 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON DISEASES OF THE URINARY 

AND GENERATIVE ORGANS IN BOTH SEXES. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 
1. 1*. With Plates, 1. 11*. 6d. The Plates alone, limpjjoth, 10s. 6d. 

THE FUNCTIONS AND DISORDERS OF THE REPRODUC- 
TIVE ORGANS IN CHILDHOOD, YOUTH, ADULT AGE, AND ADVANCED 
LIFE, considered in their Physiological, Social, and Moral Relations. Fourth Edition. 
8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. in. 

PROSTITUTION : Considered in its Moral, Social, and Sanitary Bearings, 

with a View to its Amelioration andReffljJation. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 
DR. ADAMS, A.M. 

A TREATISE ON RHEUMATIC GOUT ; OR, CHRONIC 

RHEUMATIC ARTHRITIS. 8vo. cloth, with a Quarto Atlas of Plates, 21s. 
MR. WILLIAM ADAMS, F.R.C.S. 

ON THE PATHOLOGY AND ''TREATMENT OF LATERAL 

AND OTHER FORMS OF CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. With Plates. 
8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. n. 

ON THE REPARATIYE PROCESS IN HUMAN TENDONS 

AFTER SUBCUTANEOUS DIVISION FOR THE CURE OF DEFORMITIES- 
With Plates. 8vo. cloth, 6s. m 

SKETCH OF THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF 

SUBCUTANEOUS SURGERY. 8vo. cloth, 2s. 6d. 

DR. WILLIAM ADDISON, F.R.S. 

CELL THERAPEUTICS, 8vo. cloth, 4*. 
ON HEALTHY AND DISEASED STRUCTURE, AND THE TRUE 

PRINCIPLES OF TREATMENT FOR THE CURE OF DISEASE, ESPECIALLY CONSUMPTION 
AND SCROFULA, founded on MICROSCOPICAL ANALYSIS. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 

DR. ALOIS. 

AN INTRODUCTION TO HOSPITAL PRACTICE IN YARIOUS 

COMPLAINTS ; with Remarks on their Pathology and Treatment. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 6d. 
DR. SOMERVILLE SCOTT ALISON, M.D.EDIN., F.R.C.P. 

THE PHYSICAL EXAMINATION OF THE CHEST IN PUL- 
MONARY CONSUMPTION, AND ITS INTERCURRENT DISEASES. With 
Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 12s. *~~ *~~ 

THE ANATOMICAL REMEMBRANCER; OR, COMPLETE 

POCKET ANATOMIST. Sixth Edition, carefully Revised. 32mo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 
DR. MCCALL ANDERSON, M.D. 

PARASITIC AFFECTIONS OF* THE SKIN, with Engravings. 

8vo. cloth, 5s. n. 

ECZEMA. Svo. cloth, 5s. 

III. 

PSORIASIS AND LEPRA, With Chromo-lithograph. Svo. cloth, 5s. , 




MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS* PUBLICATIONS. 

^0 3<SH- 

DR. ANDREW ANDERSON, M.D. 

TEN LECTUEES INTEODUCTOEY TO THE STUDY OF FEYEE. 

Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

DR. THOMAS ANDERSON, M.D. 

HANDBOOK FOE YELLOW FEYEE: ITS PATHOLOGY AND 

TREATMENT. To which is added a brief History of Cholera, and a method of Cure. 

Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 

DR. ARLJDGE. 

ON THE STATE OF LUNACY AND THE LEGAL PROVISION 

FOR THE INSANE; with Observations on the Construction and Organisation oi 
Asylums. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 

DR. ALEXANDER ARMSTRONG, R.N. 

OBSERVATIONS ON NAYAL HYGIENE AND SCURVY. 

More particularly as the latter appeared during a Polar Voyage. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 



MR. T. J. ASHTON. f 

ON THE DISEASES, INJURIES, AND MALFORMATIONS 

OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 8s. 

PEOLAPSUS, FISTULA IN ANO, AND ILEMORRHOIDAL 

AFFECTIONS ; their Pathology and Treatment. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 2s. 6d. 
MR. W. B. ASPINALL. 

SAN EEMO AS A WINTER RESIDENCE with Coloured Plates. 

Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 

MR. THOS. J. AUSTIN, M.R.C.S.ENG. 

A PRACTICAL ACCOUNT OF GENERAL PARALYSIS: 

Its Mental and Physical Symptoms, Statistics, Causes, Seat, and Treatment. 8 vo. cloth, 6s. 
DR. THOMAS BALLARD, M.D. 

A NEW AND EATIONAL EXPLANATION OF THE DIS- 
EASES PECULIAR TO INFANTS AND MOTHERS; with obvious Suggestions 
for their Prevention and Cure. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 

DR. BARCLAY. 

A MANUAL OF MEDICAL' DIAGNOSIS. Second Edition. 

Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 8s. 6d. IIt 

MEDICAL EEEOES, Fallacies connected with the Application of the 

Inductive Method of Reasoning to the Science of Medicine. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

in. 

GOUT AND EHEUMATISM IN EELATION TO DISEASE 

OF THE HEART. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. 
DR. T. HERBERT BARKER, M.D., F.R.S., &. MR. ERNEST EDWARDS, B.A. 

PHOTOGRAPHS OF EMINENT MEDICAL MEN, with brief 

Analytical Notices of their Works. Nos. I. fo VIII., price 3s. each. 



DR. W. G. BARKER, M.D.LOND. 

ON DISEASES OF THE EESPIEATOEY PASSAGES AND 

LUNGS, SPORADIC AND EPIDEMIC; their Causes, Pathology, Symptoms, 
and Treatment. Crown 8vo. cloth, 6s. 

DR. BARLOW. 

A MANUAL OF THE PEACTICE OF MEDICINE. Second 

Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. Gd. 




DR. BARNES. 

THE PHYSIOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF PLACENTA * 

.; being the Lettsomian Lectures on Midwifery for 1857. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. 



DR. BASCOME. 

A HISTORY OF EPIDEMIC PESTILENCES, FROM THE 

EARLIEST AGES. 8vo. cloth, 85. 

DR. BASHAM. 

ON DROPSY, AND ITS CONNECTION WITH DISEASES OF 

THE KIDNEYS, HEART, LUNGS AND LIVER. With 16 Plates. Third 

Edition. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 

MR. H. F. BAXTER, M.R.C.S.L. 

ON ORGANIC POLARITY; showing a Connexion to exist between 

Organic Forces and Ordinary Polar Forces. Crown 8vo. cloth, 5s. 
MR. BATEMAN. 

MAGNACOPIA : A Practical Library of Profitable Knowledge, commu- 
nicating the general Minutiae of Chemical and Pharmaceutic Routine, together with the 
generality of Secret Forms of Preparations. Third Edition. 1 8mo. 6s. 

MR. LIONEL J. BEALE, M.R.C.S. 

THE LAWS OF HEALTH IN 'THEIR RELATIONS TO MIND 

AND BODY. A Series of Letters from an Old Practitioner to a Patient. Post 8vo. 
cloth, 7s. 6d. H. 

HEALTH AND DISEASE, IN CONNECTION WITH THE 

GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF HYGIENE. Fcap. 8vo., 2s. 6d. 
DR. BEALE, F.R.S. 

URINE, URINARY DEPOSITS, AND CALCULI: and on the 

Treatment of Urinary Diseases. Numerous Engravings. Second Edition, much Enlarged. 
Post 8vo. cloth, 8s. 6d. n. 

THE MICROSCOPE, IN ITS APPLICATION TO PRACTICAL 

MEDICINE. With a Coloured Plate, and 27<> Woodcuts. Second Edition. 8vo. 
cloth, 14s. in. 

ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE SALTS OF URINE, URINARY 

DEPOSITS, and CALCULI. 37 Plates, containing upwards of 170 Figures copied 
from Nature, with descriptive Letterpress. 8vo. cloth, 9s. 6d. 

MR. BEASLEY. 

THE BOOK OF PRESCRIPTIONS; containing 3000 Prescriptions. 

Collected from the Practice of the most eminent Physicians and Surgeons, English 
and Foreign. Third Edition. 18mo. cloth, 6s. 

THE DRUGGIST'S GENERAL ' RECEIPT-BOOK : comprising a 

copious Veterinary Formulary and Table of Veterinary Materia Medica ; Patent and 
Proprietary Medicines, Druggists' Nostrums, &c. ; Perfumery, Skin Cosmetics, Hair 
Cosmetics, and Teeth Cosmetics ; Beverages, Dietetic Articles, and Condiments ; Trade 
Chemicals, Miscellaneous Preparations and Compounds used in the Arts, &c. ; with 
useful Memoranda and Tables. Sixth Edition. 18mo. cloth, Gs. 

in. 

THE POCKET FORMULARY AND SYNOPSIS OF THE 

BRITISH AND FOREIGN PHARMACOPOEIAS; comprising standard and 
approved Formulae for the Preparations and Compounds employed in Medical Practice. 
Eighth Edition, corrected and enlarged. 18 mo. cloth, 6s. 



6 MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS PUBLICATIONS. 

* J*S 

DR. HENRY BEN NET. 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE 1 ' ON INFLAMMATION AND 

OTHER DISEASES OF THE UTERUS. Fourth Edition, revised, with Additions. 
8vo. cloth, 16s. ii. 

A REYIEW OF THE PRESENT STATE OF UTERINE 

PATHOLOGY. 8vo. cloth, 4s. m 

NUTRITION IN HEALTH AND DISEASE, Post 8vo. cloth, 5*. 
WINTER IN THE SOUTH OF 'EUROPE; OR, MENTONE, THE 

RIVIERA, CORSICA, SICILY, AND BIARRITZ, AS WINTER CLIMATES. 
Third Edition, with numerous Plates, Maps, and Wood Engravings. Post 8vo. cloth, 

10s. 6d. t 

PROFESSOR BENTLEY, F.L.S. 

A MANUAL OF BOTANY, With nearly 1,200 Engravings on Wood. 
Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. ^ 

DR. BERNAYS. 

NOTES FOR STUDENTS IN CHEMISTRY; being a Syllabus com- 

piled from the Manuals of Miller, Fownes, Berzelius, Gerhardt, Gorup-Besanez, &c. 
Fourth Edition. Fscap. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 

MR. HENRY HEATHER BIGG. 

ORTHOPRAXY: the Mechanical Treatment of Deformities, Debilities, and 
Deficiencies of the Human Frame. With Engravings. Post 8vo. cloth, 10s. 

DR. BILLING, F.R.S. 

ON DISEASES OF THE LUNGS AND HEART, 8vo. doth, 6.. 

DR. S. B. BIRCH, M.D. 

CONSTIPATED BOWELS : the Various Causes and the Rational Means 
of Cure. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 

DR. GOLDING BIRD, F.R.S. 

URINARY DEPOSITS; THEIR DIAGNOSIS, PATHOLOGY, 

AND THERAPEUTICAL INDICATIONS. With Engravings. Fifth Edition. 
Edited by E. LLOYD BIBKETT, M.D. Post 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 

ELEMENTS OF NATURAL PHILOSOPHY; being an Experimental 

Introduction to the Study of the Physical Sciences. With numerous Engravings. Fifth 
Edition. Edited by CHARLES BROOKE, M.B. Cantab., F.R.S. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 
12s. 6d. 

MR. BISHOP, F.R.S. 

ON DEFORMITIES OF THE HUMAN BODY, their Pathology 

and Treatment. With Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 

ON ARTICULATE SOUNDS, AND ON THE CAUSES AND 

CURE OF IMPEDIMENTS OF SPEECH. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 
MR. P. HINCKES BIRD, F.R.C.S. 

PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN 

AND INFANTS AT THE BREAST. Translated from the French of M. BOUCHUT, 
with Notes and Additions. 8vo. cloth. 20s. 



MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS* PUBLICATIONS. 7 \ 

** 30- 

MR. BLAINE. 

OUTLINES OF THE VETERINARY ART; OR, A TREATISE 

ON THE ANATOMY, PHYSIOLOGY, AND DISEASES OF THE HORSE, 
NEAT CATTLE, AND SHEEP. Seventh Edition. By Charles Steel, M.R.C.V.S.L. 

With Plates. 8vo. cloth, 18s. 

DR. BOURGUIGNON. 

ON THE CATTLE PLAGUE; OR, CONTAGIOUS TYPHUS IN 

HORNED CATTLE: its History, Origin, Description, and Treatment. Post 8vo. 5s. 



MR. JOHN E. BOWMAN, &, MR. C. L. BLOXAM. 

PRACTICAL CHEMISTRY, including Analysis. With numerous Illus- 
trations on Wood. Fifth Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. 

II. 
MEDICAL CHEMISTRY; with Illustrations on Vfood. Fourth Edition, 

carefully revised. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. 

DR. JAMES BRIGHT. 

ON DISEASES OE THE HEART, LUNGS, & AIR PASSAGES; 

with a Review of the several Climates recommended in these Affections. Third Edi- 
tion. Post 8vo. cloth, 9s. 

DR. BRINTON, F.R.S. 

THE DISEASES OF THE STOMACH, with an Introduction on its 

Anatomy and Physiology; being Lectures delivered at St. Thomas's Hospital. Second 
Edition. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. n 

THE SYMPTOMS, PATHOLOGY, AND TREATMENT OF 

ULCER OF THE STOMACH. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

MR. BERNARD E. BRODHURST, F.R.C.S. 

CURVATURES OF THE SPINE: their Causes, Symptoms, Pathology, 
and Treatment. Second Edition. Roy. 8vo. cloth, with Engravings, 7s. 6d.^ 

ON THE NATURE AND TREATMENT OF CLUBFOOT AND 

ANALOGOUS DISTORTIONS involving the TIBIO-TARSAL ARTICULATION. 
With Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 60?. 

in. 

PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE DISEASES OF THE 

JOINTS INVOLVING ANCHYLOSIS, and on the TREATMENT for the 
RESTORATION of MOTION. Third Edition, much enlarged, 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 



MR. THOMAS BRYANT, F.R.C.S. 

ON THE DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. 

CLINICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. Post 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 

THE SURGICAL DISEASES OF CHILDREN, The Lettsomian 

Lectures, delivered March, 1863. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. 
ol=r~BRYCE. 

ENGLAND AND FRANCE BEFORE SEBASTOPOL, looked at 

from a Medical Point of View. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 

DR. BUCKLE, M.D., L.R.C.P.LOND. 

VITAL AND ECONOMICAL STATISTICS OF THE HOSPITALS, 

INFIRMARIES, &c., OF ENGLAND AND WALES. Royal 8vo. 5s. 




MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS* PUBLICATIONS. 



DR. BUDD, F.R.S. 

ON DISEASES OF THE LIYEE. 

Illustrated with Coloured Plates and Engravings on Wood. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 16s. 

ON THE OEGANIC DISEASES AND FUNCTIONAL DIS- 

ORDERS OF THE STOMACH. 8vo. cloth, 9s. 

DR. JOHN CHARLES BUCKNILL, &, DR. DANIEL H. TUKE. 

A MANUAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE: containing 

the History, Nosology, Description, Statistics, Diagnosis, Pathology, and Treatment of 
Insanity. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 15s. 

MR. CALLENDER, F.R.C.S. 

FEMOEAL EUPTUEE: Anatomy of the Parts concerned. With Plates. 
8vo. cloth, 4*. 

DR. JOHN M. CAMPLIN, F.L.S. 

ON DIABETES, AND ITS SUCCESSFUL TEEATMENT. 

Thkd Edition, by Dr. Glover. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 

MR. ROBERT B. CARTER, M.R.C.S. 

ON THE INFLUENCE OF EDUCATION AND TEAINING 

IN PREVENTING DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. Fcap. 8vo., 6s. 

THE PATHOLOGY AND TEEATMENT OF HYSTEEIA. Post 

8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. "* 

DR. CARPENTER, F.R.S. 

PEINCIPLES OF HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY, with numerous nius- 

trations on Steel and Wood. Sixth Edition. Edited by Mr. HENRY POWER. 8vo. 
cloth, 26s. ii. 

A MANUAL OF PHYSIOLOGY. With 252 Illustrations on Steel 
and Wood. Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6rf. 

in. 

THE MICEOSCOPE AND ITS EEYELATIONS. With nume- 

rous Engravings on Steel and Wood. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 
DRTcHAMBE.RS. 

LECTUEES, CHIEFLY CLINICAL. Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, u s . 

DIGESTION AND ITS DEEANGEMENTS. Post 8vo. cloth, 10*. 6d. 

in. 

SOME OF THE EFFECTS OF THE CLIMATE OF ITALY. 

Crown 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6< 

DR. CHANCE, M.B. 

YIECHOWS CELLULAE PATHOLOGY, AS BASED UPON 

PHYSIOLOGICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL HISTOLOGY. With 144 Engrav- 
ings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 16s. 

MR. H. T. CHAPMAN, F.R.C.S. 

THE TEEATMENT OF OBSTINATE ULCEES AND CUTA- 

NEOUS ERUPTIONS OF THE LEG WITHOUT CONFINEMENT. Third 
Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 

II. 

YAEICOSE YEINS : their Nature, Consequences, and Treatment, Pallia- 
tive and Curative. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 





MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS PUBLICATIONS. 

< *< 

MR. PYE HENRY CHAVASSE, F.R.C.S. 

ADVICE TO A MOTHER ON THE MANAGEMENT OF 

HER CHILDREN. Eighth Edition. Foolscap 8vo., 2s. 6rf. 

ADVICE TO A WIFE ON THE MANAGEMENT OF HER 

OWN HEALTH. With an Introductory Chapter, especially addressed to a Young 
Wife. Seventh Edition. Fcap. 8vo., 2s. 6d. 

MR. LE GROS CLARK, F.R.C.S. 

OUTLINES OF SURGERY ; being an Epitome of the Lectures on the 

Principles and the Practice of Surgery, delivered at St. Thomas's Hospital. Fcap. 8vo. 

cloth, 5s. 

MR. JOHN CLAY, M.R.C.S. 

KIWISCH ON DISEASES OF THE OVARIES: Translated, by 

permission, from the last German Edition of his Clinical Lectures on the Special Patho- 
logy and Treatment of the Diseases of Women. With Notes, and an Appendix on the 
Operation of Ovariotomy. Royal 12mo. cloth, 16s. 

DR. COCKLE, M.D. 

ON INTRA-THORACIC CANCER,^8vo. 6.. M. 

MR. COLLIS, M.B.DUB., F.R.C.S.I. 

THE DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF CANCER AND 

THE TUMOURS ANALOGOUS TO IT. With coloured Plates. 8vo. cloth, 14s. 
DR. CONOLLY. 

THE CONSTRUCTION AND GOVERNMENT OF LUNATIC 

ASYLUMS AND HOSPITALS FOR THE INSANE. With Plans. Post8vo. 

cloth, 6s. -~~ 

MR. COOLEY. 
COMPREHENSIVE SUPPLEMENT TO THE PHARMACOPOEIAS. 

THE CYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL RECEIPTS, PRO- 
CESSES, AND COLLATERAL INFORMATION IN THE ARTS, MANU- 
FACTURES, PROFESSIONS, AND TRADES, INCLUDING MEDICINE, 
PHARMACY, AND DOMESTIC ECONOMY ; designed as a General Book of 
Reference for the Manufacturer, Tradesman, Amateur, and Heads of Families. Fourth 
and greatly enlarged Edition, 8vo. cloth, 28s. 

MR. W. WHITE COOPER. 

ON WOUNDS AND INJURIES OF THE EYE. illustrated b y 

17 Coloured Figures and 41 Woodcuts. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 

ON NEAR SIGHT, AGED "SIGHT, IMPAIRED VISION, 

AND THE MEANS OF ASSISTING SIGHT. With 31 Illustrations on Wood. 
Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 

SIR ASTLEY COOPER, BART., F.R.S. 

ON THE STRUCTURE AND DISEASES OF THE TESTIS. 

With 24 Plates. Second Edition. Royal 4to., 20s. 



MR. COOPER. 

A DICTIONARY OF PRACTICAL SURGERY AND ENCYCLO- 

P^EDIA OF SURGICAL SCIENCE. New Edition, brought down to the present 
time. By SAMUEL A. LANE, F.R.C.S., assisted by various eminent Surgeons. Vol. I., 
8vo. cloth, 1. 5s. 



10 MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS PUBLICATIONS. 



MR. HOLMES COOTE, F.R.C.S. 

A REPORT ON SOME IMPORTANT POINTS IN THE 

TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 



DR. COTTON. 

ON CONSUMPTION: Its Nature, Symptoms, and Treatment. To 
which Essay was awarded the Fothergillian Gold Medal of the Medical Society of 
London. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 8s. 

PHTHISIS AND THE STETHOSCOPE; OR, THE PHYSICAL 

SIGNS OF CONSUMPTION. Third Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 3s. 



MR. COULSON. 

ON DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE GLAND, 

New Edition, revised. In Preparation. 

ON LITHOTRITY AND LITHOTOMY; with Engravings on Wood. 

8vo. cloth, 8s. 

MR. WILLIAM CRAIG, L.F.P.S., GLASGOW. 

ON THE INFLUENCE OF VARIATIONS OF ELECTRIC 

TENSION AS THE REMOTE CAUSE OF EPIDEMIC AND OTHER 
DISEASES. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 

MR. CURLING, F.R.S. 

OBSERVATIONS ON DISEASES OF THE RECTUM, Third 

Edition. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. Ir 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON 'DISEASES OF THE TESTIS, * 

SPERMATIC CORD, AND SCROTUM. Third Edition, with Engravings. 8vo. 
cloth, 16s. 

DR. DALRYMPLE, M.R.C.P., F.R.C.S. 

THE CLIMATE OF EGYPT: METEOROLOGICAL AND MEDI- 

CAL OBSERVATIONS, with Practical Hints for Invalid Travellers. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 



MR. JOHN DALRYMPLE, F.R.S., F.R.C.S. 

PATHOLOGY OF THE HUMAN EYE, Complete in Nine Fasciculi: 

imperial 4to., 20s. each; half-bound morocco, gilt tops, 9/. 15s. 



DR. HERBERT DAVIES. 

ON THE PHYSICAL DIAGNOSIS OF DISEASES OF THE 

LUNGS AND HEART. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, Qs. 
DR. D A V E Y. 

THE GANGLIONIC NERVOUS' SYSTEM : its Structure, Functions, 
and Diseases. 8vo. cloth, 9s. n. 

ON THE NATURE AND PROXIMATE CAUSE OF IN- 

SANITY. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 

MR. D IXO N. 

I A GUIDE TO THE PRACTICAL STUDY OF DISEASES OF 

THE EYE. Third Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 9s. 



-30- 



MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS* PUBLICATIONS. 11 



DR. DOBELL. 

DEMONSTRATIONS OF DISEASES IN THE CHEST, AND 

THEIR PHYSICAL DIAGNOSIS. With Coloured Plates. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6rf. 

LECTURES ON THE GERMS AND VESTIGES OF DISEASE, 

and on the Prevention of the Invasion and Fatality of Disease by Periodical Examinations. 
8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. m 

A MANUAL OF DIET AND REGIMEN FOR PHYSICIAN 

AND PATIENT. Third Edition (for the year 1865). Crown 8vo. cloth, Is. 6rf. 

ON TUBERCULOSIS : ITS NATURE, CAUSE, AND TREAT- 

MENT; with Notes on Pancreatic Juice. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 

ON WINTER COUGH (CATARRH, BRONCHITIS, EMPHY- 

SEMA, ASTHMA); with an Appendix on some Principles of Diet in Disease^ 
Lectures delivered at the Royal Infirmary for Diseases of the Chest. Post 8vo. cloth, 
5s. Qd. _____ 

DR. TOOGOOD DOWNING. 

NEURALGIA: its various Forms, Pathology, and Treatment. THE 

JACKSONIAN PRIZE ESSAY FOR 1850. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 



DR. DRUITT, F.R.C.S. 

THE SURGEON'S VADE-MECUM; with numerous Engravings on 
Wood. Ninth Edition. Foolscap 8 vo. cloth, 1 2s. 6d. 



MR. DUNN, F.R.C.S. 

AN ESSAY ON PHYSIOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY. 8vo. cloth, 



SIR JAMES EYRE, M.D. 

THE STOMACH AND ITS DIFFICULTIES. Fifth Edition. 

Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 2s. 6d. u 

PRACTICAL REMARKS ON ' SOME EXHAUSTING DIS- 

EASES. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 

DR. FAYRER, M.D., F.R.C.S. 

CLINICAL SURGERY IN INDIA^With Engravings. 8vo.cloth,16*. 

DR. FENWICK. 

ON SCROFULA AND CONSUMPTION. Clergyman's Sore Throat, 
Catarrh, Croup, Bronchitis, Asthma. Fcap. 8vo., 2s. 6d. 

SIR WILLIAM FERGUSSON, BART., F.R.S. 

A SYSTEM OF PRACTICAL SURGERY; with numerous iiius- 

trations on Wood. Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 

SIR JOHN FIFE, F.R.C.S. AND MR. URQUHART. 

MANUAL OF THE TURKISH BATH. Heat a Mode of Cure and 

a Source of Strength for Men and Animals. With Engravings. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. 
MR. FLOWER, F.R.C.S. 

DIAGRAMS OF THE NERVES OF THE HUMAN BODY, 

exhibiting their Origin, Divisions, and Connexions, with their Distribution to the various 
Regions of the Cutaneous Surface, and to all the Muscles. Folio, containing Six 
Plates, 14s. 



12 MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS* PUBLICATIONS. 



MR. FOWNES, PH.D., F.R.S. 

A MANUAL OE CHEMISTRY; with 187 Illustrations on Wood. 
Ninth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. Gd. 

Edited by H. BENCE JONES, M.D., F.R.S., and A. W. HOFMANN, PH.D., F.R.S. 

CHEMISTRY, AS EXEMPLIFYING THE WISDOM AND 

BENEFICENCE OF GOD. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 

m. 

INTRODUCTION TO QUALITATIYE^ANALYSIS, Post 8vo. cloth, 2*. 

DR. D. J. T. FRANCIS. 

CHANGE OF CLIMATE ; considered as a Remedy in Dyspeptic, Pul- 
monary, and other Chronic Affections; with an Account of the most Eligible Places of 
Residence for Invalids, at different Seasons of the Year. Post 8vo. cloth, 8s. Gd. 

DR. W. FRAZER. 

ELEMENTS OF MATERIA MEDICA; containing the Chemistry 
and Natural History of Drugs their Effects, Doses, and Adulterations. Second Edition. 
8vo. cloth, 10s. Gd. ----- 

"MR. J. G. FRENCH, F.R.C.S. 

THE NATURE OF CHOLERA INVESTIGATED, Second 

Edition. 8vo. cloth, 4s. -- 

C. REMIGIUS FRESENIUS. 

A SYSTEM OF INSTRUCTION IN CHEMICAL ANALYSIS, 

Edited by LLOYD BULLOCK, F.C.S. 

QUALITATIVE. Sixth Edition, with Coloured Plate illustrating Spectrum Analysis. 8vo. 
cloth, 10s. Gd. - QUANTITATIVE. Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 18s. 

DR. FULLER. 

ON DISEASES OF THE CHEST, including Diseases of the Heart 

and Great Vessels. With Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6t/. 

ON DISEASES OF THE HEART AND GREAT YESSELS, 

8vo. cloth, Is. Gd. in. 

ON RHEUMATISM, RHEUMATIC GOUT, AND SCIATICA: 

their Pathology, Symptoms, and Treatment. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 12s. Gd. 
DR. GAIRDNER. 

ON GOUT J its History, its Causes, and its Cure. Fourth Edition. Post 
8vo. cloth, 8*'. Gd. ~~-~~~~~~~~. 

MR. GALLOWAY. 

THE FIRST STEP IN CHEMISTRY, Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 

cloth, 5s. n. 

THE SECOND STEP IN CHEMISTRY; or, the student's Guide to 

the Higher Branches of the Science. With Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 

in. 

A MANUAL OF QUALITATIVE ANALYSIS, Fourth Edition. 

Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. Gd. iv. 

CHEMICAL TABLES, On Five Large Sheets, for School and Lecture 
Rooms. Second Edition. 4s. Gd. __ ~ ______ 

MR. J. SAMPSON GAMGEE. 

HISTORY OF A SUCCESSFUL CASE OF AMPUTATION AT 

THE HIP-JOINT (the limb 48-in. in circumference, 99 pounds weight). With 4 



i 

y T 



@| Photographs. 4to cloth, 10s. Gd. 



MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS PUBLICATIONS. 13 

J<3 

MR. F. J. QANT, F.R.C.S. 

THE PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY : Clinical, Medical, and Opera- 

tive. With Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 18s. 

THE IRRITABLE BLADDER "' its Causes and Curative Treatment. 

Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 

DR. GIBB. M.R.C.P. 

ON DISEASES OF THE THROAT AND WINDPIPE, as 

reflected by the Laryngoscope. Second Edition. With 116 Engravings. Post 8vo. 

cloth, 10s. 6d. 

MRS. GODFREY. 

ON THE NATURE, PREVENTION, TREATMENT, AND CURE 

OF SPINAL CURVATURES and DEFORMITIES of the CHEST and LIMBS, 
without ARTIFICIAL SUPPORTS or any MECHANICAL APPLIANCES. 
Third Edition, Revised and Enlarged. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

DR. GORDON, M.D., C.B. 

ARMY HYGIENE, 8vo. cloth, 20.. 

CHINA, FROM A MEDICAL"' POINT OF YIEW, IN 1860 

AND 1861; With a Chapter on Nagasaki as a Sanatarium. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 
DR. GRANVILLE, F.R.S. 

THE MINERAL SPRINGS OF VICHY : their Efficacy in the 

Treatment of Gout, Indigestion, Gravel, &c. 8vo. cloth, 3s, 

ON SUDDEN DJAm_Post s., 2,. M. 

DR. GRAVES, M.D.. F.R.S. 

STUDIES IN PHYSIOLOGY AND MEDICINE. Edited by 

Dr. Stokes. With Portrait and Memoir. 8vo. cloth, 14s. 

DR. S. C. GRIFFITH, M.D. 

ON DERMATOLOGY AND THE TREATMENT OF SKIN 

DISEASES BY MEANS OF HERBS, IN PLACE OF ARSENIC AND 
MERCURY. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 

MR. GRIFFITHS. 

CHEMISTRY OF THE. FOUR SEASONS Spring, Summer, 

Autumn, \\ inter. Illustrated with Engravings on Wood. Second Edition. Foolscap 

8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. ~~~ 

DR. GULLY. 

THE SIMPLE TREATMENT OF DISEASE; dedticed from the 

Methods of Expectancy and Revulsion. 18mo. cloth, 4s. 

DR. GUY AND DR. JOHN HARLEY. 

HOOPER'S PHYSICIAN'S VADE-MECUM; OR, MANUAL OF 

THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF PHYSIC. Seventh Edition, consider- 
ably enlarged, and rewritten. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 

GUY'S HOSPITAL EEPORTS L rd Series. Vols. I. to XIL, 8vo., 

7s. 6d, each. 

DR. HABERSHON, F.R.C.P. N 

PATHOLOGICAL AND PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON 

DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN, comprising those of the Stomach and other Parts of 
the Alimentary Canal, (Esophagus, Stomach, Caecum, Intestines, and Peritoneum. Second 
Edition, with Plates. 8vo. cloth, 14s. n. 

ON THE INJURIOUS EFFECTS OF MERCURY IN THE 

TREATMENT OF DISEASE. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 




MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS ? PUBLICATIONS. 



DR. C. RADCLYFFE HALL. 

TORQUAY IN ITS MEDICAL ASPECT AS A RESORT FOR 

PULMONARY INVALIDS. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

DR. MARSHALL HALL, F.R.S. 

PRONE AND POSTURAL RESPIRATION IN DROWNING 

AND OTHER FORMS OF APNCEA OR SUSPENDED RESPIRATION. 
Post 8vo. cloth. 5s. ii. 

PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS AND SUGGESTIONS IN MEDI- 

CINE. Srcontr Srrtas, Post 8vo. cloth, 8s. 6d. 

MR. HARDWICH. 

A MANUAL OF PHOTOGRAPHIC CHEMISTRY, With 

Engravings. Seventh Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d, 

DR. J. BOWER HARRISON, M.D., M.R.C.P. 

LETTERS TO A YOUNG PRACTITIONER ON THE DIS- 

EASES OF CHILDREN. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 3s. 

ON THE CONTAMINATION OF WATER BY THE POISON 

OF LEAD, and its Effects on the Human Body. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 
DR. HARTWIG. 

ON SEA BATHING AND SEA AIR, Second Edition. Fcap. 

8vo., 2s. 6d. ii. 

ON THE PHYSICAL EDUCATION OF CHILDREN, Fcap. 

8vo., 2s. Qd. --- 

DR. A. H. HASSALL. 

THE URINE, IN HEALTH 'AND DISEASE ; being an EX- 

planation of the Composition of the Urine, and of the Pathology and Treatment of 
Urinary and Renal Disorders. Second Edition. With 79 Engravings (23 Coloured). 
Post 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. n. 

THE MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY OF THE HUMAN BODY, 

IN HEALTH AND DISEASE. Illustrated with Several Hundred Drawings in 
Colour. Two vols. 8vo. cloth, 1. 10s. 

MR. ALFRED HAVILAND, M.R.C.S. 

CLIMATE, WEATHER, AND DISEASE; being a Sketch of the 

Opinions of the most celebrated Ancient and Modern Writers with regard to the Influence 
of Climate and Weather in producing Disease. With Four coloured Engravings. 8vo. 
cloth, 7s. 

DR. HEADLAND. 

ON THE ACTION OF MEDICINES IN THE SYSTEM, 

Being the Prize Essay to which the Medical Society of London awarded the Fother- 
gfflian Gold Medal for 1852. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 

DR. HEALE. 

A TREATISE ON THE PHYSIOLOGICAL ANATOMY OF f 

THE LUNGS. With Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 8s. 

A TREATISE ON VITAL CAUSES, 8vo. cloth, 9,. 4' 



MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS* PUBLICATIONS. 15 



MR. CHRISTOPHER HEATH, F.R.C.S. 

PRACTICAL ANATOMY: a Manual of Dissections. With numerous 

Engravings. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 

A MANUAL OF MINOE SURGERY AND BANDAGING, FOR 

THE USE OF HOUSE-SURGEONS, DRESSERS, AND JUNIOR PRAC- 
TITIONERS. With Illustrations. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 



MR. HIGGINBOTTOM, F.R.S., F.R.C.S.E. 

A PRACTICAL ESSAY ON THE USE OF THE NITRATE OF 

SILVER IN THE TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION, WOUNDS, AND 
ULCERS. Third Edition, 8vo. cloth, 6s. 

DR. HINDS. 

THE HARMONIES OF PHYSICAL SCIENCE IN RELATION 

TO THE HIGHER-SENTIMENTS; with Observations on Medical Studies, and on 
the Moral and Scientific Relations of Medical Life. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 



MR. J. A. HINGESTON, M.R.C.S. 

TOPICS OF THE DAY, MEDICAL, SOCIAL, AND SCIENTIFIC. 

Crown 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 

DR. HODGES. 

THE NATURE, PATHOLOGY, AND TREATMENT OF PUER- 
PERAL CONVULSIONS. Crown 8vo. cloth, 3s. 

DR. DECIMUS HODGSON. 

THE PROSTATE GLAND, AND ITS ENLARGEMENT IN 

OLD AGE. With 12 Plates. Royal 8vo. cloth, 6s. 



MR. JABEZ HOGG. 

A MANUAL OF OPHTHALMOSCOPIC SURGERY ; being a 

Practical Treatise on the Use of the Ophthalmoscope in Diseases of the Eye. Third 
Edition. With Coloured Plates. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 

MR. LUTHER HOLDEN, F R.C.S. 
I. 

HUMAN OSTEOLOGY : with Plates, showing the Attachments of the 

Muscles. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 16s. 

A MANUAL OF THE DISSECTION OF THE HUMAN BODY, 

With Engravings on Wood. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 16s. 



MR BARNARD HOLT, F.R.C.S. 

ON THE IMMEDIATE TREATMENT OF STRICTURE OF 

THE URETHRA. Second Edition, Enlarged. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 



DR. W. CHARLES HOOD. 

SUGGESTIONS FOR THE FUTURE PROVISION OF CRIMI- 
NAL LUNATICS. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 6d. 

^fHf^ - -^-5^|> 



16 MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS* PUBLICATIONS. 



DR. P. HOOD. 

THE SUCCESSFUL TREATMENT OF SCARLET FEYER; * 

also, OBSERVATIONS ON THE PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF 
CROWING INSPIRATIONS OF INFANTS. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. 




MR. JOHN HORSLEY. 

A CATECHISM OF CHEMICAL PHILOSOPHY; being a Familiar 

Exposition of the Principles of Chemistry and Physics. With Engravings on Wood. 
Designed for the Use of Schools and Private Teachers. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d, 

MR. LUKE HOWARD, F.R.S. 

ESSAY ON THE MODIFICATIONS OF CLOUDS. Third Edition, 

by W. D. and E. HOWARD. With 6 Lithographic Plates, from Pictures by Kenyon. 
4to. cloth, 10s. 6d. 

DR. HAMILTON HOWE, M.D. 

A THEORETICAL INQUIRY INTO THE PHYSICAL CAUSE 

OF EPIDEMIC DISEASES. Accompanied with Tables. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 
DR. HUFELAND. 

THE ART OF PROLONGING LIFE, Second Edition. Edited 

by ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S. Foolscap 8vo., 2s. 6d. 

MR. W. CURTIS HUGMAN, F.R.C.S. 

ON HIP JOINT DISEASE; with reference especially to Treatment 
by Mechanical Means for the Relief of Contraction and Deformity of the Affected Limb. 
With Plates. Re-issue, enlarged. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 

MR. HULKE, F.RC.S. 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE USE OF THE 

OPHTHALMOSCOPE. Being the Jacksonian Prize Essay for 1859. Royal 8vo. 

cloth, 8s. . 

DR. HENRY HUNT. 

ON HEARTBURN AND ^ESTION, 8vo. cloth, 5*. 

PROFESSOR HUXLEY, F.R.S. 

LECTURES ON THE ELEMENTS OF COMPARATIVE 

ANATOMY. ON CLASSIFICATON AND THE SKULL. With 111 Illus- 
trations. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 

MR. JONATHAN HUTCHINSON, F.R.C.S. 

A CLINICAL MEMOIR ON CERTAIN DISEASES OF THE 

EYE AND EAR, CONSEQUENT ON INHERITED SYPHILIS; with an 
appended Chapter of Commentaries on the Transmission of Syphilis from Parent to 
Offspring, and its more remote Consequences. With Plates and Woodcuts, 8vo. cloth, 9s. 

DR. INMAN, M.R.C.P. 

ON MYALGIA: ITS NATURE, CAUSES, AND TREATMENT; 

being a Treatise on Painful and other Affections of the Muscular System. Second 
Edition. 8vo. cloth, 9s. n 

FOUNDATION FOR A NEW' THEORY AND PRACTICE 

OF MEDICINE. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. cloth, 10s. 
DR. ARTHUR JACOB, F.R.C.S. 

A TREATISE ON THE INFLAMMATIONS OF THE EYE-BALL 

Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 5s. 






MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS PUBLICATIONS. 17 



DR. JAGO, M.D.OXON., A.B.CANTAB. 

ENTOPTICS, WITH ITS USES IN PHYSIOLOGY AND 

MEDICINE. With 54 Engravings. Crown 8vo. cloth, 5s. 
MR. J. H. JAMES, F.R.O.S. 

PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE OPERATIONS FOR 

STRANGULATED HERNIA. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

DR. PROSSER JAMES, M.D. 

SORE-THROAT: ITS NATURE, VARIETIES, AND TREAT- 

MENT ; including the Use of the LARYNGOSCOPE as an Aid to Diagnosis. Second 
Edition, with numerous Engravings. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

DR. HANDFIELD JONES, M.B., F.R.C.P. 

CLINICAL OBSERVATIONS ON FUNCTIONAL NERVOUS 

DISORDERS. Post 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 

DR. HANDFIELD JONES, F.R.S., &> DR. EDWARD H. SIEVEKING. 

A MANUAL OF PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY, illustrated with 

numerous Engravings on Wood. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 

DR. JAMES JONES, M.D., M.R.C.P. 

ON THE USE OF PERCHLORIDE OF IRON AND OTHER 

CHALYBEATE SALTS IN THE TREATMENT OF CONSUMPTION. Crown 
8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. .^-~.~*~-~~~* 

MR. WHARTON JONES, F.R.S. 

A MANUAL OF THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF 

OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY; with Nine Coloured Plates and 
173 Wood Engravings. Third Edition, thoroughly revised. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 

THE WISDOM AND BENEFICENCE OF THE ALMIGHTY, 

AS DISPLAYED IN THE SENSE OF VISION; being the Actonian Prize Essay 
for 1851. With Illustrations on Steel and Wood. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 

in. 

DEFECTS OF SIGHT AND HEARING ;: their Nature, Causes, Pre- 
vention, and General Management. Second Edition, with Engravings. Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 6d. 

A CATECHISM OF THE MEDICINE AND SURGERY OF 

THE EYE AND EAR. For the Clinical Use of Hospital Students. Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 6d. 

A CATECHISM OF THE PHYSIOLOGY AND PHILOSOPHY 

OF BODY, SENSE, AND MIND. For Use in Schools and Colleges. Fcap. 8vo., 
2s. 6d. 

MR. FURNEAUX JORDAN, M.R.C.S. 

AN INTRODUCTION TO CLINICAL SURGERY; WITH A 

Method of Investigating and Reporting Surgical Cases. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 
"MR. JUDD. 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON URETHRITIS AND SYPHI- 

LIS : including Observations on the Power of the Menstruous Fluid, and of the Dis- 
charge from Leucorrhoea and Sores to produce Urethritis : with a variety of Examples, 
Experiments, Remedies, and Cures. 8vo. cloth, 1. 5s. 

DR. LAENNEC. 

A MANUAL OF AUSCULTATION AND PERCUSSION, Trans- 
lated and Edited by J. B. SHARPE, M.R.C.S. 3s. 




18 MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS* PUBLICATIONS. | 

DR. LANE, M.A. 

HYDROPATHY; OK, HYGIENIC MEDICINE. An Explanatory " 

Essay. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

MR. LAWRENCE, F.R.S. 

LECTURES ON SURGERY, *> cloth, IBS. 

A TREATISE ON RUPTURES. The Fifth Edition, considerably 

enlarged. 8vo. cloth, 16s. w 

DR. LEARED, M.R.C.P. 

IMPERFECT DIGESTION: ITS CAUSES AND TREATMENT, 

Fourth Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 4s. 

DR. EDWIN LEE. 

THE EFFECT OF CLIMATE ON TUBERCULOUS DISEASE, 

with Notices of the chief Foreign Places of Winter Resort. Small 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 

THE WATERING PLACES OF ENGLAND, CONSIDERED 

with Reference to their Medical Topography. Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 

in. 

THE PRINCIPAL BATHS OF FRANCE. Fourth Edition. 

Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. iv. 

THE BATHS OF GERMANY, Fourth Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, is. 
THE BATHS OF SWITZERLAND, i2mo. cloth, 3*. 6rf. 
HOMGEOPATHY AND HYDROPATHY IMPARTIALLY AP- 

PRECIATED. With Notes illustrative of the Influence of the Mind over the Body. 
Fourth Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 

MR. HENRY LEE, F.R.C.S. 
I. 

ON SYPHILIS. Second Edition. With Coloured Plates. 8vo. cloth, 10*. 

ON DISEASES OF THE YEINSri^EMORRHOIDAL TUMOURS, 

AND OTHER AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 8s. 
DR. ROBERT LEE, F.R.S. 

CONSULTATIONS IN MIDWIFERY, Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 4.. erf. 

A TREATISE ON THE SPECULUM; with Three Hundred Cases. 
8vo. cloth, 4s. 6rf. in. 

CLINICAL REPORTS OF OVARIAN AND UTERINE DIS- 

EASES, with Commentaries. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. 

IV. 

CLINICAL MIDWIFERY : comprising the Histories of 545 Cases of 

Difficult, Preternatural, and Complicated Labour, with Commentaries. Second Edition. 
Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

DR. LEISHMAN, M.D.. F.F.P.S. 

; THE MECHANISM OF PARTURITION: An Essay, Historical and 

Critical. With Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

MR. LhSTON, F.R.S. 

PRACTICAL SURGERY, Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 22s. 






MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS* PUBLICATIONS. 19 

-* $e-- 

MR. H. W. LOBB, L.S.A., M.R.C.S.E. 

ON SOME OF THE MORE OBSCURE FORMS OF NERVOUS ' 

AFFECTIONS, THEIR PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT. Re-issue, 
with the Chapter on Galvanism entirely Re-written. With Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 8s. 

DR. LOGAN, M.D., M.R.C.P.LOND. 

ON OBSTINATE DISEASESJ^JTHE SKIN, Fca P .8vo.cioth,2..6rf. 

LONDON HOSPITAL. 

CLINICAL LECTURES AND REPORTS BY THE MEDICAL 

AND SURGICAL STAFF. With Illustrations. Vols. I. to III. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6rf. 
LONDON MEDICAL SOCIETY OF OBSERVATION. 

WHAT TO OBSERVE AT THE BED-SIDE, AND AFTER 

DEATH. Published by Authority. Second Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 
DR. MACKENZIE, M.D., M.R.C.P. 

THE PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF PHLEGMASIA 

DOLENS, as deduced from Clinical and Physiological Researches. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 
MR. M'CLELLAND, F.L.S., F.Q.S. 

THE MEDICAL TOPOGRAPHY, OR CLIMATE AND SOILS, 

OF BENGAL AND THE N. VV. PROVINCES. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 

DR. MACLACHLAN, M.D., F.R.C.P.L. j* 

THE DISEASES AND INFIRMITIES OF ADVANCED LIFE, f 

8vo. cloth, 16s. I 

DR. GEORGE H. B. MACLEOD, F.R.C.S.E, 

OUTLINES OF SURGICAL DIAGNOSIS. 8vo. cloth, 12,. erf. 
NOTES ON THE SURGERY OF THE CRIMEAN WAR; with 

REMARKS on GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 
MR. JOSEPH MACLISE, F.R.C.S. 

SURGICAL ANATOMY. A Series of Dissections, illustrating the Prin- 
cipal Regions of the Human Body. 
The Second Edition, imperial folio, cloth, 3. 12s.; half-morocco, 4. 4s. 

ON DISLOCATIONS AND FRACTURES. This Work is Uniform 

with the Author's " Surgical Anatomy;" each Fasciculus contains Four beautifully 
executed Lithographic Drawings. Imperial folio, cloth, 2. 10s.; half-morocco, 2. 17s. 

MR. MACNAMARA. 

ON DISEASES OF THE EYE J referring principally to those Affections 
requiring the aid of the Ophthalmoscope for their Diagnosis. With coloured plates. 

8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 

DR. MCNICOLL, M.R.C.P. 

A HAND-BOOK FOR SOUTHPORT, MEDICAL & GENERAL; 

with Copious Notices of the Natural History of the District. Second Edition. Post 8vo. 

cloth, 3s. 6d. ~~~ ' 

DR. MARCET, F.R.S. 

ON THE COMPOSITION OF' FOOD, AND HOW IT IS 

ADULTERATED ; with Practical Directions for its Analysis. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. 

ON CHRONIC ALCOHOLIC INTOXICATION; with an INQUIRY 

INTO THE INFLUENCE OF THE ABUSE OF ALCOHOL AS A PRE- 
DISPOSING CAUSE OF DISEASE. Second Edition, much enlarged. Foolscap 
8vo. cloth, 4s. OU 



M 20 MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS* PUBLICATIONS. 

*1 



DR. J. MACPHERSON, M.D 

CHOLERA IN ITS HOME ; with a Sketch of the Pathology and Treat- 
ment of the Disease. Crown 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

DR. MARKHAM. 

DISEASES OF THE HEART :' THEIR PATHOLOGY, DIAG- 

NOS1S, AND TREATMENT. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. 

SKODA ON AUSCULTATION^AND PERCUSSION, Post 8vo. 

cloth, 6s. ill. 

BLEEDING AND CHANGE IN TYPE OF DISEASES, 

Gulstonian Lectures for 1864. Crown 8vo. 2s. 6d. 

SIR RANALD MARTIN, K.C.B., F.R.S. 

INFLUENCE OF TROPICAL CLIMATES IN PRODUCING 

THE ACUTE ENDEMIC DISEASES OF EUROPEANS; including Practical 
Observations on their Chronic Sequelae under the Influences of the Climate of Europe. 
Second Edition, much enlarged. 8vo. cloth, 20s. 

DR. MASSY. 

ON THE EXAMINATION OF RECRUITS; intended for the Use of , 

Young Medical Officers on Entering the Army. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

MR. C. F. MAUNDER, F.R.C.S. 

OPERATIVE SURGERY, With 158 EDgravings. Post 8vo. 6*. ^ 

DR. MAYNE. 

AN EXPOSITORY LEXICON ''OF THE TERMS, ANCIENT I 

AND MODERN, IN MEDICAL AND GENERAL SCIENCE. 8vo. cloth, 2. 1 Os. 

ii. 

A MEDICAL VOCABULARY ; or, an Explanation of all Names, 
Synonymes, Terms, and Phrases used in Medicine and the relative branches of Medical 
Science. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 8s. 6d. 

DR. MERYON, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

PATHOLOGICAL AND PRACTICAL RESEARCHES ON THE 

VARIOUS FORMS OF PARALYSIS. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 



DR. MILLINGEN. 

ON THE TREATMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF THE IN- 

SANE; with Considerations on Public and Private Lunatic Asylums. 18mo. cloth, 
4 S . 6d. 

DR. W. J. MOORE, M.D. 

HEALTH IN THE TROPICS;'' or, Sanitary Art applied to Europeans 
in India. 8vo. cloth, 9s. n 

A MANUAL OF THE DISEASESjOF INDIA, Fcap. 8vo. doth, 5*. 

PROFESSOR MULDER, UTRECHT. 

THE CHEMISTRY OF WINE, Edited by H. BENCE JONES, M.D., 

F.R.S. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 

DR. BIRKBECK NEVINS. 

THE PRESCRIBER'S ANALYSIS OF THE BRITISH PHAR- 

MACOPEIA. Third Edition, enlarged to 295 pp. 32mo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 




MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS PUBLICATIONS. 
DR. THOS. NICHOLSON, M.D. 

ON YELLOW FEYER ; comprising the History of that Disease as it 
appeared in the Island of Antigua.^^ap^Sm^cloth, 2s. 6d. 
DR. NOAD, PHND^ F-R-S. 

THE INDUCTION COIL, being a Popular Explanation of the Electrical 
Principles on which it is constructed. Second Edition. With Engravings. Fcap. 8vo. 

1 j.1- O ** -~ ~~~^ ~. 

cloth, os. 

DR. NOBLE. 

THE HUMAN MIND IN ITS RELATIONS WITH THE 

BRAIN AND NERVOUS SYSTEM._JPost^8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 
MR. NUNNELEY. F.R.C.S. E. 

ON THE ORGANS OF VISION: THEIR ANATOMY AND PHY- 
SIOLOGY. With Plates, 8vo. cloth, 15s. 

A TREATISE ON THE NATURE, CAUSES, AND TREATMENT 

OF ERYSIPELAS. 8vo. cloth, 10s. Gd. 

MR. LANGSTON PARKER. 

THE MODERN TREATMENT OF SYPHILITIC DISEASES, 

both Primary and Secondary; comprising the Treatment of Constitutional and Confirmed 
Syphilis, by a safe and successful Method. Fourth Edition, 8vo. cloth, 10s. 

,.DR. PARKESj F.R.S., F.R.C.P. 

A MANUAL OF PRACTICAL ''HYGIENE; intended especially for 
ra the Medical Officers of the Army. With Plates and Woodcuts. 2nd Edition, 8vo. cloth, 1 6s. 

ii. 

& THE URINE: ITS COMPOSITION IN HEALTH AND DISEASE, 

AND UNDER THE ACTION OF REMEDIES. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 
DR. PARKIN, M.D., F.R.C.S. 

THE ANTIDOTAL TREATMENT AND PREYENTION OF 

THE EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 7s. Qd. 

THE CAUSATION AND PREYENTION OF DISEASE; with 

the Laws regulating the Extrication of Malaria from the Surface, and its Diffusion in the 

surrounding Air. 8vo. cloth, 5s. , 

MR. JAMES PART. F.R.C.S. 

THE MEDICAL AND SURGICAL POCKET CASE BOOK, 

for the Registration of important Cases in Private Practice, and to assist the Student of 
Hospital Practice. Second Edition.^^2s.^6c^^ 

DR. PAVY, M.D., F.R.S., F.R.C.P. 

DIABETES : RESEARCHES ON ITS NATURE AND TREAT- 
MENT. 8vo. cloth, 8s. 6rf. 

DR. PEACOCK, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

ON SOME OF THE CAUSES AND EFFECTS OF YALYULAR 

DISEASE OF THE HEART. With Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 5$. 
DR. W. H. PEARSE, M.D.EDIN. 

NOTES ON HEALTH IN CALCUTTA AND BRITISH 

EMIGRANT SHIPS, including yentilation, _Diet, and Disease. Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 
DR. PEET, M.D., F.R.C P. 

THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF MEDICINE; 

Designed chiefly for Students of Indian Medical Colleges. 8vo. cloth, 1 6s. 
DR. PERErRAT F.R.S. 

SELECTA E PR^ESCRIPTIS. Fourteenth Edition. 24rao. cloth, 5s. ; 




22 MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS* PUBLICATIONS. 

^HSH J<=H^ 

DR. PICKFORD. i 

HYGIENE; or, Health as Depending upon the Conditions of the Atmo- ^ 

sphere, Food and Drinks, Motion and Rest, Sleep and Wakefulness, Secretions, Excre- 
tions, and Retentions, Mental Emotions, Clothing, Bathing, &c. Vol. I. 8vo. cloth, 9s. 

MR. PIRRIE, F.R.S.E. 

THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OE SURGERY, With 

numerous Engravings on Wood. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 24s. 

PHARMACOPEIA COLLEGlTREGALIS MEDICORUM LON- 

DINENSIS. 8vo. cloth, 9s. ; or 24mo. 5s. 

PROFESSORS PLATTNER Sc MUSPRATT- 

THE USE OE THE BLOWPIPE IN THE EXAMINATION OE 

MINERALS, ORES, AND OTHER METALLIC COMBINATIONS. Illustrated 
by numerous Engravings on Wood. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 

DR. KENRY F. A. PRATT, M.D., M.R.C.P. 

THE GENEALOGY OF CREATION, newly Translated from the 

Unpointed Hebrew Text of the Book of Genesis, showing the General Scientific Accuracy 
of the Cosmogony of Moses and the Philosophy of Creation. 8vo. cloth, 14s. 

ON ECCENTRIC AND CENTRIC EORCE: A New Theory of 

Projection. With Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 

in. 

ON ORBITAL MOTION: The Outlines of a System of Physical 
Astronomy. With Diagrams. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 

ASTRONOMICAL INVESTIGATIONS. The Cosmical Relations of 
the Revolution of the Lunar Apsides. Oceanic Tides. With Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 

v. 

THE ORACLES OP GOD I An Attempt at a Re-interpretation. Part I. 
The Revealed Cosmos. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 

THE PRESCRIBER'S PHARMACOPGEIA ; containing all the Medi- 

cines in the British Pharmacopeia, arranged in Classes according to their Action, with 
their Composition and Doses. By a Practising Physician. Fifth Edition. 32mo. 
cloth, 2s. 6d.-, roan tuck (for the pocket), 3s. 6d. 

DR. JOHN ROWLISON PRETTY. 

AIDS DURING LABOUR, including the Administration of Chloroform, 
the Management of Placenta and Post-partum Haemorrhage. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 



IV! R LAKE 

PHOTOGRAPHIC MANIPULATION: Treating of the Practice of 

the Art, and its various appliances to Nature. With Fifty Engravings on Wood. Post 

8vo. cloth, O's. Qd. 

MR. P. C. PRICE, FRQS 

AN ESSAY ON EXCISION OE THE KNEE-JOINT, with 

Coloured Plates. With Memoir of the Author and Notes by Henry Smith, F.R.C.S. 
Royal 8vo. cloth, 14s. , 

l ^S? &t OF THE GRAV1D 

DR. RADCLIFFE, F.R.C.P.L. 

LECTURES ON EPILEPSY, PAIN, PARALYSIS, AND 

CERTAIN OTHER DISORDERS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM, delivered at 
the Royal College of Physicians in London. Post 8vo. cloth, 7s 6d 




MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS PUBLICATIONS. 23 I 



MR. R Al N E Y. 

ON THE MODE OF FORMATION OF SHELLS OF ANIMALS, 

OF BONE, AND OF SEVERAL OTHER STRUCTURES, by a Process of 
Molecular Coalescence, Demonstrable in certain Artificially-formed Products. Fcap. 8yo. 
cloth, 4s. 6d. 

DR. F. H. RAMS BOTH AM. 

THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF OBSTETRIC MEDI- 

CINE AND SURGERY. Illustrated with One Hundred and Twenty Plates on Steel 
and Wood; forming one thick handsome volume. Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 22s. 

DR. RAMSBOTHAM. 

PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON MIDWIFERY, with a Selection 

of Cases. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 

PROFESSOR REDWOOD, PH.D. 

A SUPPLEMENT TO THE PHARMACOPEIA: A concise but 

comprehensive Dispensatory, and Manual of Facts and Formulae, for the use of Practi- 
tioners in Medicine and Pharmacy. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 22s. 



DR. DU BOIS REYMOND. 

ANIMAL ELECTRICITY ; Edited by H. BENCE JONES, M.D., F.R.S. 

With Fifty Engravings on Wood. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 6s. 
DR. REYNOLDS, M.D.LOND. 

EPILEPSY: ITS SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND RELATION 

TO OTHER CHRONIC CONVULSIVE DISEASES. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 

THE DIAGNOSIS OF DISEASES OF THE BRAIN, SPINAL 

CORD, AND THEIR APPENDAGES. 8vo. cloth, 8s. 
DR. B. W. RICHARDSON. 

ON THE CAUSE OF THE COAGULATION OF THE BLOOD, 

Being the ASTLEY COOPER PRIZE ESSAY for 1856'. With a Practical Appendix. 
8vo. cloth, 16s. n 

THE HYGIENIC TREATMENT 'OF PULMONARY CONSUMP- 

TION. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 6d. m> 

THE ASCLEPIAD, Vol. I., Clinical Essays. 8vo. cloth, 6*. Qd. 

DR. RITCHIE, M.D. 

ON OVARIAN PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY, with 

Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 

DR. WILLIAM ROBERTS, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

AN ESSAY ON WASTING PALSY; being a Systematic Treatise on 
the Disease hitherto described as ATROPHIE MUSCULAIRE PROGRESSIVE. 
With Four Plates. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

DR. ROUTH. 

INFANT FEEDING, AND ITS INFLUENCE ON LIFE; 

Or, the Causes and Prevention of Infant Mortality. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 6s. I 



ffi 24 MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS* PUBLICATIONS. 



DR. W. H. ROBERTSON. 

THE NATURE AND TREATMENT OF GOUT, 8vo. cloth, 10*. erf. 
A TREATISE ON DIET AND'REGIMEN, Fonrth Edition. 2vois. 

12s. post 8vo. cloth, >~~~~~~.~~, 

DR. ROWE. 

NERYOUS DISEASES, LITER AND STOMACH COM- 

PLAINTS, LOW SPIRITS, INDIGESTION, GOUT, ASTHMA, AND DIS- 
ORDERS PRODUCED BY TROPICAL CLIMATES. With Cases. Sixteenth 

Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 6d. ^ 

DR. ROYLE, F.R.S., AND DR. HEADLAND, M.D. 

A MANUAL OF MATERIA MEDICA AND THERAPEUTICS. 

With numerous Engravings on Wood. Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 
DR. RYAN, M.D. 

INFANTICIDE: ITS LAW, PREVALENCE, PREVENTION, AND 

HISTORY. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL. 

A DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE OF THE ANATOMICAL 

MUSEUM. Vol. I. (1846), Vol. JM^VVol. III. (1862), 8vo. cloth, 5s. each. 

o ST, GEORGE'S HOSPITALLERS, vol. i. 8vo. 7,. Qd. 

MR. T. P. SALT, BIRMINGHAM. 

ON DEFORMITIES AND DEBILITIES OF THE LOWER 

EXTREMITIES, AND THE MECHANICAL TREATMENT EMPLOYED 
IN THE PROMOTION OF THEIR CURE. With numerous Plates. 8vo. 
cloth, 15s. ii. 

ON RUPTURE : ITS CAUSES, MANAGEMENT, AND CURE, 

and the various Mechanical Contrivances employed for its Relief. With Engravings. 

Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 

DR. SALTER, F.R.S. 

ON ASTHMA : its Pathology, Causes, Consequences, and Treatment. 
8vo. cloth, 10s. ~~~~~~~ 

DR. SANKEY, M.D.LOND. 

LECTURES ON MENTAL DISEASES, 8vo. cloth, 8,. 

DR. SANSOM, M.B.LOND. 

CHLOROFORM : ITS ACTION AND ADMINISTRATION. A Hand- 
book. With Engravings. Crown 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

MR.^/WcTRY. 

A COMPENDIUM OF DOMESTIC MEDICINE, AND COMPA- 

NION TO THE MEDICINE CHEST ; intended as a Source of Easy Reference for 
Clergymen, and for Families residing at a Distance from Professional Assistance. 

Seventh Edition. 12mo. cloth, 5s. , 

DR. SCHACHT. 

THE MICROSCOPE, AND ITS APPLICATION TO VEGETABLE 

ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. Edited by FREDERICK CURREY, M.A. Fcap. 

8vo. cloth, 6s. 

DR. SCORESBY-JACKSON, M.D., F.R.S.E. 

MEDICAL CLIMATOLOGY ; or, a Topographical and Meteorological 

Description of the Localities resorted to in Winter and Summer by Invalids of various 
classes both at Home and Abroad. With an Isothermal Chart. Post 8vo. cloth, 12s. 

DR. SEMPLE. 

ON COUGH : its Causes, Varieties, and Treatment. With some practical 
Remarks on the Use of the Stethoscope as an aid to Diagnosis. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. 




MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS* PUBLICATIONS. 25 



DR. SEYMOUR. 

ILLUSTRATIONS OF SOME ''OF THE PRINCIPAL DIS- 

EASES OF THE OVARIA: their Symptoms and Treatment; to which are prefixed 
Observations on the Structure and Functions of those parts in the Human Being and in 
Animals. With 14 folio plates, 12s. 

THE NATURE AND TREATMENT OF DROPSY; considered 

especially in reference to the Diseases of the Internal Organs of the Body, which most 
commonly produce it. 8vo. 5s. ~~~~~~~* 

DR. SMARTER, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

THE CLIMATE OF THE SOUTH OF DEYON, AND ITS 

INFLUENCE UPON HEALTH. Second Edition, with Maps. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 



MR. SHAW, M.R.C.S. 

THE MEDICAL REMEMBRANCER; OR, BOOK OF EMER- 

GENCIES. Fourth Edition. Edited,withAdditions,by JONATHAN HuxcHiNSON,F.R.C.S. 
32mo. cloth, 2s. 6d. 

DR. SHEA, M.D., B.A. 

A MANUAL OF ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY, With an Appendix of 

Questions for the B.A. London and other Examinations. With Engravings. Foolscap 

8vo. cloth, 5s. 6d. ~ 

DR. SIBSON, F.R.S. 

MEDICAL ANATOMY. With coloured Plates. Imperial folio. Fasci- 
culi I. to VI. 5s. each. ~ v " ~ % 

DR. E. H. SIEVEKING. 

ON EPILEPSY AND EPILEPTIFORM SEIZURES: their 

Causes, Pathology, and Treatment. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6rf. 



DR. SIMMS. 

A WINTER IN PARIS : being a few Experiences and Observations 

of French Medical and Sanitary Matters. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 

MR. SINCLAIR AND DR. JOHNSTON. 

PRACTICAL MIDWIFERY : Comprising an Account of 13,748 Deli- 

veries, which occurred in the Dublin Lying-in Hospital, during a period of Seven Y ears. 

6vo. cloth, 10s. ^^. 

DR. SIORDET, M.B.LOND., M.R.C.P. 

MENTONE IN ITS MEDICAL ASPECT. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 2.. M. 

MR. ALFRED SMEE, FRS. 

GENERAL DEBILITY AND DEFECTIVE NUTRITION; their 

Causes, Consequences, and Treatment. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 
DR. SMELLIE. 

OBSTETRIC PLATES ' being a Selection from the more Important and 

Practical Illustrations contained in the Original Work. With Anatomical and Practical 

Directions. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

MR. HENRY SMITH, F.R.C.S. 

ON STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 8vo. cloth, 7,. 6* 
HEMORRHOIDS AND PROLAPSUS OF THE RECTUM: 

Their Pathology and Treatment, with especial reference to the use of Nitric Acid. Third 
Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 3s. m 

THE SURGERY OF THE RECTUM. Lettsomian Lectures. Fcap. 

8vo. 2s. 6d. 



-* : : : *e- 

26 MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS* PUBLICATIONS. 

__ ^ r ^ _ ($ 

DR. J. SMITH, M.D., F.R.C.S.EDIN. 

HANDBOOK OF DENTAL ANATOMY AND SURGERY, FOR 

THE USE OF STUDENTS AND PRACTITIONERS. Fcap. 3vo. cloth, 3s. 6rf. 
DR. W. TYLER SMITH. 

A MANUAL OF OBSTETRICS,' THEORETICAL AND PRAC- 

TICAL. Illustrated with 186 Engravings. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 

THE PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF LEUCORRHCEA. 

With Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 

DR. SNOW. 

ON CHLOROFORM AND OTHER ANESTHETICS: THEIR 

ACTION AND ADMINISTRATION. Edited, with a Memoir of the Author, by 
Benjamin W. Richardson, M.D. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6rf. 

MR. J. VOSE SOLOMON, F.R.C.S. 

., TENSION OF THE EYEBALL; GLAUCOMA: some Account of r 

the Operations practised in the 19th Century. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 



DR. STANHOPE TEMPLEMAN SPEER. 

PATHOLOGICAL CHEMISTRY, IN ITS APPLICATION TO 

THE PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. Translated from the French of MM. BECQUEEEL 
and RODIEB. 8vo. cloth, reduced to 8s. 



MR. PETER SQUIRE. 

A COMPANION TO THE ''BRITISH PHARMACOPEIA, 

Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 8s. 6d. u 

THE PHARMACOPOEIAS OF THIRTEEN OF THE LONDON 

HOSPITALS, arranged in Groups for easy Reference and Comparison. 18mo. cloth, 
3s. 6rf. 

DR. STEGGALL. 
STUDENTS' BOOKS FOR EXAMINATION. 

A MEDICAL MANUAL FOR APOTHECARIES' HALL AND OTHER MEDICAL 

BOARDS. Twelfth Edition. 12mo. cloth, 10s. 

A MANUAL FOR THE COLLEGE OF SURGEONS ; intended for the Use 

of Candidates for Examination and Practitioners. Second Edition. 12mo. cloth, 10s. 

in. 

GREGORY'S CONSPECTUS MEDICINE THEORETICS. The First Part, con- 
taining the Original Text, with an Ordo Verborum, and Literal Translation. ]2mo. 
cloth, 10s. iv. 

THE FIRST FOUR BOOKS OF CELSUS; containing the Text, Ordo Verb- 

orum, and Translation. Second Edition. 12mo. cloth, 8s. 

FIRST LINES FOR CHEMISTS AND* DRUGGISTS PREPARING FOR EX- 
AMINATION AT THE PHARMACEUTICAL SOCIETY. Second Edition, 
18mo. cloth, 3s. Qd. 




MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS* PUBLICATIONS. 27 

MR. STOWE, M.R.C.S. 

A TOXICOLOGICAL CHART, exhibiting at one view the Symptoms, 

Treatment, and Mode of Detecting the various Poisons, Mineral, Vegetable, and Animal. 
To which are added, concise Directions for the Treatment of Suspended Animation. 
Twelfth Edition, revised. On Sheet, 2s. ; mounted on Roller, 5s. 

MR. FRANCIS SUTTON, F.C.S. 

A SYSTEMATIC HANDBOOK OF YOLUMETRIC ANALYSIS; 

or, the Quantitative Estimation of Chemical Substances by Measure. With 'Engravings. 

Post 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 

DR. SWAYNE. 

OBSTETRIC APHORISMS FOR THE USE OF STUDENTS 

COMMENCING MIDWIFERY PRACTICE. With Engravings on Wood. Third 
Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 

MR. TAMPLIN, F.R.C.S.E. 

LATERAL CURVATURE OF THE SPINE: its Causes, Nature, and 

Treatment. 8vo. cloth, 4s. ~~~ 

DR. ALEXANDER TAYLOR, F.R.S.E. 

THE CLIMATE OF PAU; with a Description of the Watering Places 

of the Pyrenees, and of the Virtues of their respective Mineral Sources in Disease. Third 
Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 7s. 

DR. ALFRED S. TAYLOR, F.R.S. 

THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF MEDICAL JURIS- 
PRUDENCE. With 176 Wood Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 28s. 

A MANUAL OF MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. Eighth Edition. 

With Engravings. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 

in. 

ON POISONS, in relation to MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE AND 

MEDICINE. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. 



ON AMPUTATION BY AKAND A SHORT RECTAN- 

GULAR FLAP. With Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

DR. THEOPHILUS THOMPSON, F.R.S. 

CLINICAL LECTURES ON PULMONARY CONSUMPTION; 

with additional Chapters by E. SYMES THOMPSON, M.D. With Plates. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 
DR. THOMAS. 

THE MODERN PRACTICE OF PHYSIC; exhibiting the Symp- 
toms, Causes, Morbid Appearances, and Treatment of the Diseases of all Climates. 
Eleventh Edition. Revised by ALGERNON FRAMPTON, M.D. 2 vols. 8vo. cloth, 28s. 

MR. HENRY THQMPSON, F.R.C.S. 

STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA; its Pathology and Treatment. 
The Jacksonian Prize Essay for 1852. With Plates. Second Edition. 8 vo. cloth, 10s. 

THE DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE; their Pathology and Treat- 

ment. Comprising a Dissertation " On the Healthy and Morbid Anatomy of the Prostate 
Gland;" being the Jacksonian Prize Essay for 1860. With Plates. Second Edition. 
8vo. cloth, 10s. m 

PRACTICAL LITHOTOMY AND LITHOTEITY; or, An Inquiry 

into the best Modes of removing Stone from the Bladder. With numerous Engravings. 
8vo. cloth, 9s. 





MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS PUBLICATIONS. 



DR. THUDICHUM. 

A TREATISE ON THE PATHOLOGY OF THE UKINE, 

Including a complete Guide to its Analysis. With Plates, 8vo. cloth, 14s. 

A TEEATISE ON GALL STONES: their Chemistry, Pathology, 
and Treatment. With Coloured Plates. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 

DR. TILT. 

ON UTERINE AND OVARIAN INFLAMMATION, AND ON 

THE PHYSIOLOGY AND DISEASES OF MENSTRUATION. Third Edition. 
8vo. cloth, 12s. 

A HANDBOOK OF UTERINE THERAPEUTICS, AND OF 

MODERN PATHOLOGY OF DISEASES OF WOMEN. Second Edition. 
Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. 

in. 

THE CHANGE OF LIFE IN HEALTH AND DISEASE: a 

Practical Treatise on the Nervous and other Affections incidental to Women at the Decline 
of Life. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 



DR. GODWIN TIMMS. 

CONSUMPTION: its True Nature and Successful Treatment. Crown 

8vo. cloth, 10s. 

DR. ROBERT B. TODD, F.R.S. 

CLINICAL LECTURES ON THE PRACTICE OF MEDICINE, 

New Edition, in one Volume, Edited by DR. BEALE, 8vo. cloth, 18s. 

ON CERTAIN DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS, AND 

ON DROPSIES. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 



MR. TOMES, F.R.S. 

A MANUAL OF DENTAL SURGERY, With 208 Engravings on 

Wood. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6rf. 



MR. JOSEPH TOYNBEE, F.R.S., F.R.C.S. 

THE DISEASES OF THE EAR: THEIR NATURE, DIAG- 

NOSIS, AND TREATMENT. Illustrated with numerous Engravings on Wood. 
8vo. cloth, 15s. 

DR. TUNSTALL, M.D., M.R.C.P. 

THE BATH WATERS : their Uses and Effects in the Cure and Eelief 
of various Chronic Diseases. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 2s. 6d. 



DR. TURNBULL. 

AN INQUIRY INTO THE CURABILITY OF CONSUMPTION, 

ITS PREVENTION, AND THE PROGRESS OF IMPROVEMENT IN THE 
TREATMENT. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON DISORDERS OF THE STOMACH 

with FERMENTATION; and on the Causes and Treatment of Indigestion, &c. 8vo. 
cloth, 6s. 




MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS PUBLICATIONS. 



DR. TWEEDIE, F.R.S. 

CONTINUED FEYERS: THEIR DISTINCTIVE CHARACTERS, 

PATHOLOGY, AND TREATMENT. With Coloured Plates. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 

VESTIGES OF THE NATURAL HI8TOBY OF CREATION. 

Eleventh Edition. Illustrated with 106 Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 
DR. UNDERWOOD. 

TREATISE ON THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN, Tenth Edition, 

with Additions and Corrections by HENRY DAVIES, M.D. 8vo. cloth, 15s. 



DR. UNQER. 

BOTANICAL LETTERS, Translated by Dr. B. PAUL. Numerous 
Woodcuts. Post 8vo., 2s. 6d. 

MR. WADE, F.R.C.S. 

STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA, ITS COMPLICATIONS 

AND EFFECTS; a Practical Treatise on the Nature and Treatment of those 
Affections. Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 7s. Qd. 



DR. WARING, M.D., F.L.S. 

A MANUAL OF PRACTICAL THERAPEUTICS, Second Edition, 

Revised and Enlarged. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. Qd. 



DR. WATERS, M.R.C.P. 

THE ANATOMY OF THE HUMAN LUNG, The Prize Essay 

to which the Fothergillian Gold Medal was awarded by the Medical Society of London. 
Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. u. 

RESEARCHES ON THE NATURE, PATHOLOGY, AND 

TREATMENT OF EMPHYSEMA OF THE LUNGS, AND ITS RELA- 
TIONS WITH OTHER DISEASES OF THE CHEST. With Engravings. 8vo. 

Cloth 5S. VVWWV%VWVVVV*,VVVN 

DR. ALLAN WEBB, F.R.C.S. L. 

THE SURGEON'S READY RULES FOR OPERATIONS IN 

SURGERY. Royal 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. 

DR. WEBER. 

A CLINICAL HAND-BOOK OF AUSCULTATION AND PER- 

CUSSION. Translated by JOHN COCKLE, M.D. 5s. 



DR. WALKER, M.B.LOND. 

ON DIPHTHERIA AND DIPHTHERITIC DISEASES. Fcap. 

8vo. cloth, 3s. _~^~~ ^* 

DR. WALLER. 

ELEMENTS OF PRACTICAL MIDWIFERY; or, Companion to 

the Lying-in Room. Fourth Edition, with Plates. Fcap. cloth, 4s. 6d. 
MR. HAYNES WALTON, F.R.C.S. 

SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE EYE. With Engravings on * 

Wood. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 14s. 





30 MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS* PUBLICATIONS. 



MR. SOELBERG WELLS, M.D., M.R.C.S. 

ON LONG, SHORT, AND WEAK SIGHT, and their Treatment by 

the Scientific Use of Spectacles. Second Edition. With Plates. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 



MR. T. SPENCER WELLS, F.R.C.S. 

DISEASES OF THE OVARIES: THEIE DIAGNOSIS AND 

TREATMENT. Vol. I. 8vo. cloth, 9s. 

SCALE OF MEDICINES WITH WHICH MERCHANT VES- 
SELS ARE TO BE FURNISHED, by command of the Privy Council for Trade; 
With Observations on the Means of Preserving the Health of Seamen, &c. &c. 
Seventh Thousand. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 

DR. WEST. 

LECTURES ON THE DISEASES OF WOMEN. Third Edition. 

8vo. cloth, 16s. 



DR. UVEDALE WEST. 

* ILLUSTRATIONS OF PUERPERAL DISEASES. Second Edi- * 

tion, enlarged. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. 

MR. WHEELER. 

HAND-BOOK OF ANATOMY FOR STUDENTS OF THE 

FINE ARTS. With Engravings on Wood. Fcap. 8vo., 2s. 6d. 



DR. WILLIAMS, F.R.S. 

PRINCIPLES OF MEDICINE: An Elementary View of the Causes, 

Nature, Treatment, Diagnosis, and Prognosis, of Disease. With brief Remarks on 
Hygienics, or the Preservation of Health. The Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 15s. 



THE WIFE'S DOMAIN : the YOUNG COUPLE the MOTHER the NURSE 
the NURSLING. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 



DR. J. HUME WILLIAMS. 

UNSOUNDNESS OF MIND, IN ITS MEDICAL AND LEGAL 

CONSIDERATIONS. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. 



DR. WILLIAMSON, SURGEON-MAJOR, 64TH REGIMENT. 

MILITARY SURGERY. With piates. 8vo. cloth, 12*. 

NOTES ON THE WOUNDED FROM THE MUTINY IN 

INDIA : with a Description of the Preparations of Gunshot Injuries contained in the 
Museum at Fort Pitt. With Lithographic Plates. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 



DR. WHITEHEAD, F.R.C.S. 

ON THE TRANSMISSION FROM PARENT TO OFFSPRING * 

OF SOME FORMS OF DISEASE, AND OF MORBID TAINTS AND 
TENDENCIES. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, ] Os. 6d. 



MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS PUBLICATIONS. 



3! 1 



MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S. 

THE ANATOMIST'S YADE-MECUM: A SYSTEM OF HUMAN 

ANATOMY. With numerous Illustrations on Wood. Eighth Edition. Foolscap 8vo. 
cloth, 12s. fid. 

DISEASES OF THE SKIN : A Practical and Theoretical Treatise on 

the DIAGNOSIS, PATHOLOGY, and TREATMENT OF CUTANEOUS DIS- 

EASES. Fifth Edition. 8 vo. cloth, 16s. 
THE SAME WORK; illustrated with finely executed Engravings on Steel, accurately 

coloured. 8vo. cloth, 34s. 

in. 
HEALTHY SKIN : A Treatise on the Management of the Skin and Hair 

in relation to Health. Seventh Edition. Foolscap 8vo. 2s. 6d. 

PORTRAITS OF DISEASES OF THE SKIN, Folio. Fasciculi I. 

to XII., completing the Work. 20s. each. The Entire Work, half morocco, 13. 

THE STUDENT'S BOOK OF CUTANEOUS MEDICINE AND 

DISEASES OF THE SKIN. Post 8vo. cloth, 8s. 6<f. 

ON SYPHILIS, CONSTITUTIONAL AND HEREDITARY; 

H AND ON SYPHILITIC ERUPTIONS. With Four Coloured Plates. 8vo. cloth, 

>S 16s. 

VII. 

? A THREE WEEKS' SCAMPER THROUGH THE*&PAS OF 

GERMANY AND BELGIUM, with an Appendix on the Nature and Uses of 
Mineral Waters. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. 

VIII. 

THE EASTERN OR TURKISH BATH: its History, Revival in 

Britain, and Application to the Purposes of Health. Foolscap 8vo., 2s. 



DR. G. C. WITTSTEIN. 

PRACTICAL PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISTRY: An Explanation 

of Chemical and Pharmaceutical Processes, with the Methods of Testing the Purity of 
the Preparations, deduced from Original Experiments. Translated from the Second 
German Edition, by STEPHEN DARBY. 18mo. cloth, 6s. 



DR. HENRY Q. WRIGHT. 

HEADACHES ; their Causes and their Cure. Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 
2s. 6d. 



DR. YEARSLEY, M.D., M.R.C.S. 

DEAFNESS PRACTICALLY ILLUSTRATED ; being an Exposition 

as to the Causes and Treatment of Diseases of the Ear. Sixth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 



ON THE ENLARGED TONSIL AND ELONGATED UYULA, 

and other Morbid Conditions of the Throat. Seventh Edition. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 



CHURCHILL'S SERIES OF MANUALS. 

Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12*. Qd. each. 

" We here give Mr. Churchill public thanks for the positive benefit conferred on the 
Medical Profession, by the series of beautiful and cheap Manual? which bear his imprint." 
British and Foreign Medical Review. 



AGGREGATE SALE, 141,OOO COPIES, 




ANATOMY. With numerous Engravings. Eighth Edition. By ERASMUS 
WILSON, F.R.C.S., F.R.S. 

BOTANY. With numerous Engravings. By ROBERT BENTLEY, F.L.S., 
Professor of Botany, King's College, and to the Pharmaceutical Society. 

CHEMISTRY. With numerous Engravings. Ninth Edition. By GEORGE 
FOWNES, F.R.S., H. BENCE JONES, M.D., F.R.S., and A. W. 
HOFMANN, F.R.S. 

DENTAL SURGERY. With numerous Engravings. By JOHN TOMES, 

F.R.S. 
MATERIA MEDICA. With numerous Engravings. Fourth Edition. 

By J. FORBES ROYLE, M.D., F.R.S., and FREDERICK W. HEADLAND, 

M.D., F.L.S. 

MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. With numerous Engravings. Eighth 
Edition. By ALFRED SWAINE TAYLOR, M.D., F.R.S. 

PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. Second Edition. By G. HILARO BARLOW, 
M.D., M.A. 

The MICROSCOPE and its REVELATIONS. With numerous Plates and 
Engravings. Third Edition. By W. B. CARPENTER, M.D., F.R.S. 

NATURAL PHILOSOPHY. With numerous Engravings. Fifth Edition. 

By GOLDING BIRD, M.D., M.A., F.R.S., and CHARLES BROOKE, M.B., 

M.A., F.R.S. 
OBSTETRICS. With numerous Engravings. By W. TYLER SMITH, 

M.D., F.R.C.P. 
OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE and SURGERY. With coloured Plates 

and Engravings on Wood. Third Edition. By T. WHARTON JONES, 

F.R.C.S., F.R.S. 

PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. With numerous Engravings. By C. 
HANDFIELD JONES, M.B., F.R.C.P., and E. H. SIEVEKING, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

PHYSIOLOGY. With numerous Engravings. Fourth Edition. By WILLIAM 
B. CARPENTER, M.D., F.R.S. 

POISONS. Second Edition. By ALFRED SWAINE TAYLOR, M.D., F.R.S. 

PRACTICAL ANATOMY. With numerous Engravings. (10*. 6d.) By 
CHRISTOPHER HEATH, F.R.C.S. 

PRACTICAL SURGERY. With numerous Engravings. Fourth Edition. 

By Sir WILLIAM FERGUSSON, Bart., F.R.C.S. 
THERAPEUTICS. Second Edition. By E. J. Waring, M.D., F.L.S 

"* Printed by W. BLANCHARD & SONS, 02, Millbtmk Street, Weatminiter. 3 





^ 



University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 





Acme Library Card Pocket 

Uder Pat "Ref . Ixtn File" 

Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



4 BOUND 3Y *T 
0*M*^ 

LONDON j 




a^lll 

'^MZzfi^j&'L. 

<;^$&$jgj^ 



