,j&M^w 



m 



9§^ 



lip%r-/ ■■■" 

,. Mm 



ja,jlfii; 






h^i. 



\ 






:^S 



WyV;^':V'\Jv^' 






ts^^^ 









H)AM 



\s^\ 



m 






iyfy»=AA'^^ 






If^Sa: 



h[4!1^^/J^f(r\^^ LIBRARY OF CONGRESS, t 

my.. T X- f 5^3 Jl 
^^f .F55 






;: v■^'^ /' 






O^/l i£<t<A 



T 



// ^i^.. 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. J 









:^Ki 



4, 'P ■. '!-:«;V-A. 









v'Hwnw^nni T i«' 



:i:%inhNnr^«iM)ffi)K 



m.mM>,.r^m 



mm^ 






•^ THE 



MINE OF WEALTH 



AND 



7 T^AT> rr... 



CONTAINING THE 



SEOEET SYSTEM AND INSTRUCTIONS 



FOR THE MANUFACTURE OP 



WINES, LIQUORS, CORDIALS, AND BITTER: 

ENABLING EVEKY ONE TO MANUFACTURE FOR HIMSELF; 

COOKERY IN ALL ITS BEANOHES; 

THE ART OF PRODUCING BEAUTIFOL FIREWORK 

A LARGE AND VALUABLE COLLECTION OF 

USEFUL MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS, 

AND A 

FAMILY MEDICAL DEPARTMENT, 

"BY WHICH DISEASES MAY BE TEEATED WITH THE GEBATES'f 

SAFETY, AS THE INSTRUCTIONS AND PRESCRIPTIONS ARE 

GIVEN IN THE PLAINEST MANNER AND LANGUAGE. 



TVe eat a.iid dx^inls: to live, 
A.XX& live to eat a-ncl drink. 



By Dk. WM. FITZGIBBON. 




/ IP H I X. ^^ ID E Xi IP il X .A- : 

BARCLAY & CO., No 602 ARCH STREET. 






A 



^- 



Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1867, by 
BARCLAY & CO., 

in the Clerk's Offlc« of the District Court of the United Htatea, 
in and for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. 



PREFACE. 



It has been said by a modern writer that "facts are the firmest 
friends of common sense." In no department of information ar*; 
common sense facts, that is to say proven data, more important than 
in a volume of receipts. In the " Mine of Wealth," for sucb is the 
title we have given the present compend of nseful knowledge, will 
be found such materials familiarly presented as shall justify this 
appellation. Like " the gems " of the poet the interior of this Mine 
is both " rich and. rare " for not only is it valuable in regard to the 
secrets it divulges, but in the rarity of the information given. The 
costliness of some works upon this subject, and the unreliability of 
others made a want, that this is calculated to supply. 

The publisher has long been in possession of a number of useful 
formulae for which at different times he has been offered large sums 
of money. The present volume owes its origin to a desire to make 
generally known that which privately disposed of, might never 
meet the public eye ; but as a very large sale of copies is justly an- 
ticipated the confidence of the publisher in the popular appreciation 
is not likely to be disappointed. 

In the department of Wines and Liquors there will be found de- 
tails which no one connected either with the sale or consumption of 
those articles should be without. In the Bread and general culinary 
department there are ideas that have truly been called "the living 

facts of the kitchen." 

iii 



,iv PREFACE. 

Practices based on the n.se of brass kettles as is generally re- 
commended are here eschewed, and only such employment of 
utensils recommended as condiiise to the consumer's health. Sim- 
plicity and the absence of technical or scientific terms has been 
made the rule of expression ; and it is believed that every receipt 
herein published is at least worth the price of the book to every 
one interested in its subject. The Miscellaneous Department is 
necessarily an Olla Podrida of facts that refused other classification 
but possesses an importance and value little inferior to the other 
special departments, and without which the work would not ha\'« 

been complete. 

W. B 

PHILADELPHIA, 1867 



MINE OF WEALTH. 



AND 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 



CHAPTEE I. 

The Manufacture of Wnies, Liquors^ Cordials and Bitters. 

Among the many articles upon whicli increased heavy duties have 
been levied, in consequence of our late war, that of Foreign "Wines, 
Liquors, Cordials and Bitters have come in for their full share, and 
it has therefore become a matter of great importance and economy 
t® the distiller and to the dealer, to produce articles of a similar 
character and of course at a less expense than that incurred by the 
importation of the Foreign article. Some years ago, arising from 
almost similar causes British capitalists were induced to prepare this 
class of articles for their home consumption, and though for a long 
time the effort proved unsuccessful, yet at last, after the expenditure 
of much talent, labor and capital their efforts were crowned with 
success. A very excellent article of British manufacture can now 
be purchased in the market, at the same time some vile mixtures 
are sold and palmed off as genuine. Several attempts have been 
made to establish similar enterprises in the United States, and noio 
their necessity having been experienced more than ever, it is pro- 
posed to aid and encourage overcoming this want by furnishing such 
important receipts for the manufacture of these articles as the skill 
and experience of the pnst ha? langht. The writer of this chapter 



MINE OF WEALTH AND 

here gives the formulas Avhich he has worked over twenty years, 
and he can only say that, if skilful management, care, and the faith- 
ful following out of the instructions are persevered in, an article 
will be produced, that cannot, except by the most rigid tests, be sur- 
passed by the original, either in quality or flavor. As large a sum 
as $1000 has been paid for some of the receipts here presented — 
the publication of this book will now, however, place them within 
the reach of all, and every dealer can, if he chooses, rrianufacture 
for himself a superior article and at about half the cost of an inferior 
and poisonously adulterated mixture, with which it is to be regretted, 
the country now abounds. 

The French manufacturers are proverbial for the superiority of 
their cordials over all others, and to succeed similarly and attain to 
their cream-like smoothness and delicate flavor, the very purest of 
spirit, and sugar, and the judicious application of the flavoring in- 
gredients must be employed. The flavoring essences should always 
be prepared by the manufacturer rather than purchased, and this 
can be done either by infusion or maceration, always in very pure 
spirit, and kept in a cool place, in well corked stone ware bottles. 
It generally occupies four or five weeks when it may be distilled 
or filtered — the former being preferable. Either the outer peel or 
fruit is used for the preparation of the essence which is obtained by 
carefully peeling the fruit with a knife, or by rubbing it ofi" with a 
lump of hard white sugar, or pure aromatic seeds and woods by 
pounding them before submitting to the action of spirit for infusion. 
For coloring, vegetable infusions are best, agreeable to the color 
required. 

In conclusion, let the casks, vats, and other articles used in manu- 
facturing be always kept perfectly clean and sweet ; the ingredients 
required for the various preparations of the first quality, and strength : 
the manipulation conducted with the necessary judgment and dis- 
cretion, and the results will be alike .satisfactory and profitable, and 
industry and ingenuity meet their well-merited reward. 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 7 

Proportionate quantities of the articles named in the following re- 
ceipts^ are to he used^ according as a greater or less quantity may he 
required. 

EECEIPTS. 

AmericaiA Money I'l^'iiae. — Honey, twenty pounds ; eider, 

twelve gallons ; put in a forty gallon cask and let ferment. Then add 

rum, half a gallon ; brandy, half a gallon ; red or white tartar dissolved, 
six ounces; bitter almonds and cloves, each one quarter of an ounce. 
Mix well together, let set twenty-four hours, then bottle. 

Anl§eed Cordial. — Bruised aniseed, sixteen pounds ; proof spirits, 
fifty gallons ; water, sixty gallons ; macerate well and let stand three days : 
draw off one hundred gallons, and sweeten to your taSte, either with clari- 
fied syrup or with white sugar, and then filter through a bag, previously 
putting a little magnesia in the bag. 

Aiati-FeriBient for l¥asie, Beer, &c.— Sulphate of lime, one 
part ; powdered mustard seed, two parts ; mix well together — this is in- 
fallible if properly used. 

Anisette. — (Frencta.) — Sugar, twelve ounces ; water, five pints ; 
proof spirits, three pints ; oil of aniseed, fifteen drops. Rub the oil with 
a little of the sugar before adding it to the mixture. 

Brandy Bitters. — Bruised gentian root, eight ounces ; bitter 
orange peel, five ounces ; cardamons, three ounces ; cassia, one ounce ; 
cochineal, one quarter an ounce ; proof spirits one gallon. Let it digest 
one week, and then decant the clear ; pour five pints of water on the 
sediment and let it digest ajiother week, then decant and mix both together. 
Bottle, 
g Brandy Bitters. — (American.) — Wild cherry, one ounce ; 
peelings of oranges and lemons dried, two ounces each ; the same of fresh, 
two ounces and a half each ; French brandy, one gallon. Digest for 
twelve days, shaking frequently, then press out the liquor and strain 
carefully, add loaf sugar, one and a half pounds. As soon as the sugar 
is dissolved and mixed, bottle. 

Brandy Bitters. — (ComnHin.) — American brandy, three gal- 
lons ; orange and lemon peel, each half a pound ; calamus root, three and 
a half ounces ; sugar one and a half pounds ; camomile flowers, two 
drachms ; syrup, half gallon. Water, two gallons. Digest the whole well 
for twelve days ; draw off carefully and bottle. 



8 MINE OF WEALTH. AND 

Aniseetl Coa'ctiaE. — (HiritisSa.) — Oil of aniseed, five drachms ; 
oil of carraway, thirty drops ; proof spirit two gallons. This is a very 
excellent cordial for lowness of spirits, flatulence, &c. By adding fonr 
pounds of loaf sugar, it is ranch improved. 

Brillf?!li Sla';iBl€l Vo, No. H. — Proof spirit, ninety-eight gallons; 
red tartar, five pounds ; acetic ether, three pounds ; wine vinegar, three 
gallons ; bruised French plums, seven pounds ; bruised bitter almonds, 
one ounce ; water sufficient to reduce it to the strength required. Dis- 
solve the tartar in the v/ater, then add other ingredients; after mixing 
well and letting stand three days to settle, draw off one hundred and 
twenty gallons ; add brown sugar for coloring and bottle. 

• 9, — Clean spirit, one hundred gallons ; nitric ether, two pounds ; ca.«- 
sia buds ground, half a pour.d: bitter almond meal, half a pound; orris 
root sliced, six ounces ; good vinegar, two gallons ; brandy coloring, one 
quart. Mix well in a brandy cask, stirring occasionally for a fortnight; 
let settle three days and boni'.'. 

S. — Clean spirit one hundred gallons ; strong vinegar, three gallons ; 
bitter almonds ground, quarter of a pound ; cassia buds ground, half a 
pound ; orris root ground, seven ounces ; guinea pepper, six ounces ; 
powdered cloves, one ounc«> ; tincture of catechu four pints ; nitric ether 
two pints; brandy coloring, one quart; put the above on the lees of a 
freshly emptied cognac cask; mix well and treat like IS'o, 2. 

4, — Good plain malt spirits, one hundred gallons ; liucly powdered 
catechu twelve ounces ; tincture of vanilla, two ounces ; brown sugar 
coloring, one quart or more as may be required. Mix well, let clear 
thoroughly and bottle. 

1;^^^ Ripe pine apples (number according to desired flavor), mashed 
up and added to either of the above brandies in lieu of vinegar, will pro- 
duce a superior pine apple brandy. Should it show signs of fermentation 
after adding the pines, add the antiferment. 

5. — Proof spirit, forty gallons; oil of cognac, one drachm, dropped on 
a little white sugar and mixed in alcohol ; bruised dried prunes, six 
pounds; white sugar, five pounds; coloring to suit. Digest for ten 
days, stirring occasionally. 

MniiMly F!l«5TOa*mg,'. — Finely powdered charcoal, three and a half 
ounces ; ground rice, four and a half ounces ; put in a quart of mak 
spirits and work up for fourteen days. This is the required quantity for 
one hundred gallons. 



QUIDK FOR TgE MILLION". 9 

Britisli Bair^eiady l>¥flBie. — Good cider thirty gallons ; juice 
of elderberries, seven gallons. Lees of old burgundy wine, four and a half 
gallons ; brandy, two gallons. Isinglass one pound, dissolved in a gallon 
of warm cider; lemon juice, one quart; orange flower water half a gal- 
lon ; alum, four ounces. Bury down for two months, then bottle and store 
away for twelve months in a cool cellar. Then use. 

Britisli Clsas'et l¥iEft€.— Good cider and port wine, each twenty- 
fii^e gallons ; cream of tartar, three ounces ; good juicy, lemons, (the juice 
only), one dozen. Mis well, and at the end of five weeks fine down 
with the whites and shells of three eggs, then bottle. This imitation if 
properly attended to and made as above can scarcely be distinguished 
from pure Bordeaux wine. 

IBi'itisSa Msicleira 'M'^aMe. — Infuse in forty-four gallons of boiling 
water, four bushels of ground pale malt. Strain off while warm twenty- 
four gallons, and add fourteen pounds of sugar candy, three ounces of 
cream of tartar, and when dissolved, two pounds of yeast. Ferment, 
keep skimming off the yeast, and when the fermentation is nearly finished, 
add raisin wine, two and a half gallons; brandy and sherry wine each, 
two gallons ; and rum one quart. Bury down close for six to eight 
months. Kefine and u.se. 

Krlti§la F®rt Wiiae. — Good cider, twenty-four gallons ; juioe of 
elderberries, six gallons ; port wine, four gallons ; brandy, one and a half 
gallons ; logwood, one pound ; isinglass, twelve ounces, dissolved in a 
gallon of the cider. Bury it down and in two months it will be fit to 
bottle, but should not be drank for twelve months. Four ounces of alum 
may be added to give a rough flavor. 

Mritisli SlaerE'y ^"¥iiie. — Loaf sugar, thirty-two pounds ; sugar 
candy, ten pounds : water, sixteen gallons ; boil and add six gallons of 
pale ale wort, similar to that used for madeir»; yeast, one pound. On 
the third day add stoned raisins ten pounds, and in another three days, 
brandy, one gallon ; bitter almonds grated, one drachm. Bury it down 
for four months, draw it off into another cask, add another gallon of 
brandy and in three months bottle. 

1^^ None of the British imitation wines are mellow enough for 
use under twelve months after their manufacture. 

Krlta§li Slilfislj, T¥©. 1. — Best white sugar, one hundred and 
seventy-five pounds ; proof spirit, twenty-two gallons ; British brandy, ten 
gallons ; bitter almonds, bruised, one ounce and a half. Orris root pow- 
der, three ounces; powdered cassia, two ounces; essence of orange, one 
onnce ; lemons sliced, one dozen ; water twenty-five gallons ; put the 



10 MINE OF WEALTH, AND 

whole into a« proper sized cask, and work up well every day for one 
week, then add water to make up one hundred and five gallons, and one 
quart of coloring. Beat up lightly the whites of two dozen eggs, and 
with the shells finely broken up, add to refine and clear. 

*J. — Tartaric acid powdered, eight pounds ; loaf sugar, two hundred 
and forty pounds ; dissolve them in thirty-five gallons of water ; put 
into a cask and then add, proof spirit, or English or American brandy, 
thirty-five gallons ; brandy coloring, one pint ; oranges sliced, two dozen • 
bitter almonds bruised, half an ounce ; cassia bruised, half an ounce : 
cloves bruised, half an ounce ; stir up well daily for one week, keeping 
the casks in the meantime well bunged, then add the yolks, whites, and 
shells of twenty eggs, beaten to a froth mix well again, bung close and 
let settle, bottle. 

BourfoOEl "Whiskey. — Proof spirit, thirty-five gallons ; spirits of 
nitre, three ounces ; fusil oil of corn, two ounces, steeped four days in 
a pint of alcohol ; sugar, dissolved in five gallons of soft water ; three 
pounds ; half dozen mellow ripe peaches mashed up. Mix well and di- 
gest twenty-four hours. 

Carraway Urandy — Carraway seed bruised, seven pounds ; 
proof spirits, eighty gallons ; sugar, forty-two pounds ; water twenty 
gallons. Mix well, let steep for a month ; let settle three days after last 
mixing, and bottle. 

Carraway Cordial. — Oil of carraway, three ounces ; oil of cassia, 
one drachm ; oil of lemon, fifteen drops ; proof spirits, twenty-five gallons ; 
mix well, then add, white sugar, seventy pounds ; dissolved in fifteen 
gallons of water. Mix well, let settle, and refine with the whites and 
shells of eight eggs beat up. 

Carraway Cordial. — (West India.) — Proof spirits, forty gal. 
Ions ; bruised caraway seed, three pounds ; white sugar, fifty-six pounds ; 
oil of lemon and of orange peel, and of capsicum, each thirty drops ; 
reduce with soft water to suit the taste. Mix well and digest ten days 
and fine with white of four eggs, 

Champa^DBe I\^0. I. — Loaf sugar, fifty-six pounds ; pale brov,-n 
sugar, forty-eight pound>* ; white tartar, four ounces ; warm water, forty- 
five gallons ; mix well and when cold add, yeast, one quart ; sweet cider, 
five gallons; bitter almonds, bruised, eight ounces ; proof spirits, one gallon; 
orris root powder, half an ounce. Mix well, keeping the ea.sk closely 
banged. At the end of a week draw off and bottle carefully. 

58, — Take three gallons of water and nine pounds of pale raw mus- 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 11 

covado sugar , boil half an hour ; skim clear with the greatest care and 
then pour the boiling liquid upon one gallon of red or white currants 
picked from the stalk, but not bruised, and when cold work it up we H 
for two days with half a pint of ale yeast ; afterwards pour it through a 
fl annel bag, and put it into a clean cask with half a pint of isinglass 
fineing. When it has done working, bung it and let it stand for a month, 
then bottle with care, putting into every bottle a lump of loaf sugar 
about the size of a pigeon's egg. This is an excellent wine, has a beaw- 
tiful color, sparkles brilliantly, and has been used by thousands supposing 
it to be the genuine article. It must be preserved or kept packed in salt. 

Claret Wllte. — Cider, forty gallons ; cherry brandy, six gallons ; 
cream of tartar, five pounds ; white sugar, five pounds ; color with red 
beet juice. Digest for twelve days, with occasional stirring, 

Clove Cordial. — Bruised cloves, seven pounds ; pimento one 
pound ; proof spirits, fifty gallons ; mix well for fourteen days, then add 
white sugar, one hundred and fifty pounds, dissolved in forty-five gal- 
lons water; mix well and refine with whites and shells of twelve eggs. 

Cherry Braaidy, Mo. 1. — Best thick sugar house molasses, 
one hundred and twenty -five pounds ; proof spirits, ninety-five gallons ; 
bruised bitter almonds, half a pound ; cloves, one ounce ; cassia, one 
ounce; put the ingredients into a large cask, mix well and let them re- 
main a month wnth occasional stirring, bottle. 

3. — Bruised cherries, twenty-five gallons ; sugar thirty pounds ; cloves 
and cassia, each, half an ounce : 35 proof spirit sixty gallons ; bruised 
bitter almonds, three ounces ; dissolve the sugar in suflScent warm water 
to dissolve it — no more — then put the whole into a cask, mix well, let 
stand for three months with an occasional stirring then let settle ajjd 
bottle. 

CillBaaniOll Cordial. — Oil of cassia, one ounce ; essence of lemon, 
thirty drops ; proof spirit, fifteen gallons ; sugar fifty pounds ; water, ten 
gallons; mix the spirit with the oil and essence, then add the sugar dis- 
solved in the water, mix well again, let settle, filter through a flannel 
bag and bottle. 

Co^Biac ^Braiady, — ^Prepared whiskey, twenty-eight gallons ; fourth 
proof brandy, three gallons; tincture of kino, four ounces; spirits of nitre, 
seven ounces. Digest twenty-four hours. 

Conamosa ^^rasidy. — Whiskey, twenty-five gallons, fourth proof 
brandy, one gallon, spirits of nitre, five ounces ; one fourth of an ounce 
of Russia castor, mixed in half a gallon of alcohol ; loaf sugar, two and 
a half pounds. Mix well and let stand twonlv four hours. 



12 MINE OF V.'EALTH, AND 

Commosi tJin. — Whiskey, thirty-five gallons ; spirits of nitre, five 
ounces ; oil of juniper, three quarters of an ounce, and oil of lavender, half 
an ounce, dissolved in half a gallon of alcohol ; loaf sugar three pounds. 
Mix well, and let stand twenty four hours. 

ComiMOai RllfiU. — Whiskey, thirty gallons ; tincture of kino, and 
spirits of nitre, each four ounces ; half an ounce of oil of carraway in 
half a gallon of alcohol; loaf sugar, ten pounds. Mix well, and let 
stand twenty four hours. 

ConaillOSl Wmes. — The following formula will answer for any 
of the ordinary kinds of wine, by simply adding to it five gallons of the 
stock wine, for which it is named. — Worked cider, thirty gallons ; good 
brandy, one gallon ; cream of tartar one pound ; milk to settle one quart, 
or the whites and shells of four eggs beat up well together. It should 
be well worked, and then add the five gallons of stock wine. Let stand 
for twenty-four hours, then draw off and bottle. 

CommOBl Hitters. — Without any exceptions one of the best 
stomachic bitters ever manufactured, and but very little known. — Pre- 
pared whiskey, or clean proof spirits, fifty gallons ; coriander seed, thir- 
teen pounds; cassia four pounds ; ginger, calamus, and camomile flowers, 
each two pounds ; orange and lemon peel, each two and a half pounds . 
caraway seed, five and a half pounds ; Virginia snake root, half a pound ; 
aniseed, cochineal, and cloves, each one pound ; red sanders, half a 
dozen. The red sanders and cochineal should be ground together and 
put into a long woolen sack dropped through the bung hole of the cask, 
with a string so as to be withdrawn when necesary. The other arti- 
cles should be well bruised and infused in the spirit or whiskey, mixing 
it well occasionally for at least fourteen days. Then draw off and add 
three pounds of loaf sugar and one ounce of saturated tincture of gentian 
root. Bottle and seal up carefully for use. If pure Jamaica or Santa 
Cruz rum can be obtained add five gallons, with the sugar and gentian 
and it will greatly improve it. 

Creme de Macasons. — P^-le sugar, seven pounds ; proof spirits 
eight pounds ; water, ten pounds ; white sugar, eight pounds ; blanched 
bitter almonds bruised, half a pound ; powdered cloves, fifty grains ; 
powdered mace, fifty grains ; tinge it with tincture of turnsole and cochi- 
neal to a violet color. Mix and work well for ten days, then let settle 
and bottle. 

Cremc dc ]\oyeau d']?IartiEfisque. — White sugar, one hundred 
pounds; proof spirits fifteen gallons ; orange flower water, half a gallon ; 
bruised biV.er almonds, three pounds ; esseaco of lemons, one ounce ; 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 18 

water, twenty-five gallons ; work up the almonds and the essence in the 
spirit for fourteen days, keeping the cask well bunged, then add the 
sugar dissolved in the water, let them stand for a month, then strain 
through a flannel bag and bottle. 

Creme de Sarl^adoes. — Two dozen lemons sliced; six large 
citrons sliced ; fresh balm leaves half a pound ; white sugar, thirty pounds ; 
proof spirits, three gallons ; water, four gallons ; put the fruit into the 
spirits and work up well for four days, then pour the water on the baim 
leaves ; steep for half an hour ; lastly add the spirit. 

CuB*a<^oa, ]\©. fi. — Cinnamon, two ounces ; brandy or proof spirits, 
three quarts ; white sugar, two pounds and a half; Seville oranges, two 
dozen ; mix and work well for three weeks, then let settle and bottle. 

;2. — Proof spirits, ten pounds ; water, five pounds : white sugar, four 
pounds ; peelings of six Seville oranges ; powdered cassia, two scruples ; 
powdered mace, two scruples ; brazil, one ounce ; burned sugar to give 
a tint ; work up well for ten days and then strain off and bottle. 

3. — Highly rectified spirits, five gallons; fresh orange peel, four 
ounces ; oil of bitter almonds, one drachm ; oil of cassia, one drachm ; pul- 
verized brazil wood, two ounces ; clarified syrup, two quarts ; let the in- 
gredients be well stirred up every day for a fortnight, then add one gal- 
lon of water and color it with caramel, or burned sugar, and let it stand 
to clear ; and if not quite clear in three days pass it through a filtering 
bag. Bottle. 

£ssence of Feppemtilit. — Oil of peppermint, one pound ; rec- 
tified spirits, two gallons ; green peppermint to color ; mix well, settle 
and bottle. 

Eogllsll Criia. — Clear rectified spirits, one hundred gallons ; English 
juniper oil, one and a half ounce ; angelica essence, half an ounce ; bitter 
almond oil, half an ounce ; oil coriander, half an ounce ; oil of carraway, 
half an ounce ; put these into the rectified spirit and mix well during 
three days, then add forty-five pounds best loaf sugar, dissolved in a 
small quantity of rain or distilled water, again mix well and add four 
ounces of roche alum, and two ounces of salts of tartar. Work the 
whole up well for a day, let settle and bottle. 

Englisli Imitation MolIaBld €riil. — Juniper berries, two 
pounds ; proof spirit, eighty-three gallons ; water sufficient to draw off 
one hundred gallons; mix and work up well for ten days, let settle 
and bottle. 

Essence oC Giuig'er. — Capsicum, one drachm ; bruised ginger, 



14 MINE OF WEALTH ; AND, 

three ounces ; alcohol, one pound ; mix and work well for ten days. 
Bottle. 

Flask. — Thick sugar coloring, nine parts ; extract of capsicum, three 
parts ; mix. This is used to color and give false strength to weak bran- 
dies, &c. Sugar coloring is made by roasting coarse brown sugar to a 
dark color and then bui'ning it with any hot iron instrument ; or loaf 
sugar burned in the same manner. 

€ieiltiail Bitters. — Bruised gentian root, four ounces ; cassia 
bark, two ounces ; fresh orange peel, five ounces ; bruised cardamon seed, 
one ounce, Jamaica or Santa Cruz rum, one gallon. "Digest for eight 
days, then decant the clear liquor, press out the sediment, pour on it 
five pints of water, digest again for two days, press out agaiu and add 
the two liquors together and dissolve in them two pounds of loaf sugar. 

€fiWigev Beer, ]¥o. I. — Bruised ginger, two ounces ; water five 
gallons ; boil for an hour, then add when sufficiently cool, loaf sugar, three 
pounds ; cream of tartar, one and a half ounce ; essence of lemon, one 
drachm ; yeast, half a pint ; mix, then strain, bottle and cork down 
with cord if for immediate use, but if to be kept for a time then secure 
with wire. 

If the beer is liked stronger make in the proportion of two pounds 
of sugar and one ounce of ginger to each gallon of water. 

9. — One and a half ounces of well sliced ginger ; one ounce of cream 
of tartar ; one lemon sliced ; one pound of white sugar ; put the above 
into an earthen vessel and pour on them one gallon of boiling water. 
When cold add a table spoonful of yeast, and let the whole stand for 
twenty four hours, skim, bottle and cork down well and in three days 
it will be fit for use. 

3. — White sugar, four pouiids ; water, nine gallons ; well sliced ginger, 
two pounds ; citric acid, sixty grains. Pour the water hot (not boiling) 
ou the ginger, and when cool, mash up and add two sugar loaf, or 
sweet pine apples, well ripe, then add the sugar and citric acid. Clear 
the whole with the whites and shells of two eggs well beat up — let 
stand four days and bottle carefully. 

JiJ^^The above ginger beer stands unrivalled and this receipt has 
been sold as high as one hundred dollars. 

Clinker Pop, Wo. 1. — Cream of tartar, one pound ; ginger, one 
and a half ounces ; white sugar, seven pounds ; essence of lemon, one 
drachm; water, six gallons; yeast, half a pint; mix and work well, lot 
settle, strain, bottle and cork down with cord. 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLIOIST, 15 

g. — Cream of tartar, one and a half ounces ; sliced ginger, one ounce 5 
white sugar, twelve ounces ; oranges sliced, three ; boiling water, one 
gallon ; work well, let settle until clear, add a little yeast, draw off and 
bottle. 

Ginger 'Wine. — Water ten gallons ; white sugar, thirty pounds 5 
bruised ginger, fifteen ounces ; four eggs beat up ; boil well and skim, 
then pour the liquid hot on six lemons cut up in thin slices, work 
up well, rack and ferment, then add two quarts of proof spirits aad 
one pint of finings of isinglass to clear up — bottle. 

J"ailiaica Mitiaa. — Brown oil of rum, six ounces ; oil of pimento, 
half an ounce ; dissolved on sugar and mixed in a quart of ninety- 
five per cent, alcohol ; proof spirit, thirty-five gallons. Mix well and 
re-cask after twenty-four hours. 

lieinofil Sraatdy. — Proof spirit, seventy gallons ; essence of 
lemon, three ounces ; sugar, fifty pounds ; dissolved in twenty gallons of 
water ; mix and work well for fourteen days, let settle and bottle. 

liemon Cordial. — Essence of lemons, two ounces; proof spipt, 
twenty-five gallons ; mix and work up well ; then add fifty pounds sugar, 
dissolved in twenty gallons of water ; mix well, work up for twelve 
days, clear with the whites and shells of eight eggs beat up to a froth, 
and bottle. 

JLeiMOii Peel, Essence oi^— Oil of lemons, six drachms ; proof 
spirit, one pound ; mix well. 

Itiqnodilla. — Take the fresh peelings of one dozen each of oranges 
and lemons, and steep them for three days in three gallons of brandy or 
rum ; then add, water two gallons ; sugar, eight pounds ; mix, filter and 
bottle. 

Madeira Wine. — Cider, forty gallons ; cherry brandy, six gallons ; 
proof spirit, two gallons ; tartaric acid, one quarter of a pound ; oil of 
bitter almonds, half an ounce infused in ninety-five per cent, alcohol ; 
raisins, five pounds. Digest and mix well for ten days. 

Mixed Sitters. — Fresh orange and lemon peel, wild cherry, eo- 
lomba root, quassia and camomile flowers each one ounce ; proof spirit, 
half a gallon. Digest for eight days, strain and express all the liquor, 
and add half a pound of loaf sugar and a little tincture of cochineal for 
coloring. 

Me^BT England Mlini. — Whiskey, twenty-seven gallons ; New 
England rum, three gallons ; ninety -five per cent, alcohol, half a gallon ; 
liquorice root, three ounces ; orris root, two ounces ; spirits of nitre, one 
ounce ; mix well and digest for twenty -four hours. 



16 MINE OF WEALTH ; AND, 

IVoyean. — ^Bruised bitter almonds, four ounces ; cassia and cloves 
braised, each one quarter of an ounce ; essence of orange peel, one 
drachm ; essence of lemon peel, one drachm ; proof spirit, twenty gal" 
Ions ; mix and work well, and then add sugar, thirty pounds, dissolved 
in five gallons of water. Mix, let settle and bottle. 

Orangeade. — Sugar, one pound ; tartaric acid, one quarter of an 
ounce; essence of oranges, thirty-five drops; rub well together then 
add three quarts of water. This is a most refreshing drink. 

Orange Peel, Esseiace of' — Orange peel, one pound; proof 
spirit, one gallon ; work well for ten days, let settle and bottle. 

Another. — Orange peel, one pound; proof spirit, one pound; work 
well, for two days, then add six pints of white wine, work for one day, 
draw off the clear and bottle. 

Orange T'V^jne. — Take two hundred of the finest ripe and juicy 
oranges and forty lemons, or Seville oranges instead of the lemons, peel 
them as thin as possible, then pour eleven gallons of boiling soft water 
upon the peelings ; let stand ten or twelve hours then strain and add 
the expressed juice of the oranges and lemons and thirty pounds of 
white sugar, work the whole well and ferment with half a pint of yeast 
for four or five days. Now cask and add one a half gallons of 
French brandy. Bury the cask closely and let stand six months to 
ripen, when it will be found perfectly clear and ready for bottling. 
The whites of two dozen eggs boiled in the water before pouring on 
the peelings is found to be a great improvement. 

Peach. Brandy. — Bruised bitter almonds, three pounds j proof 
spirit, one hundred gallons ; sugar, sixty pounds ; dissolved in thirty 
gallons of water; mix and work well for fourteen days, color with 
brandy coloring if required, let settle and bottle. 

Peach Wine. — Full ripe peaches, one hundred pounds; water, 
twenty gallons ; white sugar eighty pounds ; cream of tartar dissolved 
in boiling water, one and a half pounds. Digest the whole well for fif- 
teen days occasionally stirring up well, then add one quart of best brandy 
and let stand bunged close for six months. Draw off and bottle. 

Peppermint Cordial. — White sugar, one hundred and ninety-six 
pounds ; water, fifteen gallons ; break up the sugar and put into a one 
hundred and twenty gallon cask, and pour the water on it, then work 
it up well until all the sugar is dissolved ; and add English oil of pepper- 
mint, two ounces ; proof spirit forty gallons ; mix well, then add sufficient 
water to make one hundred and six gallons. Let it stand until clear/ 
then bottle. 



qmiDE FOR THE MILLION". 17 

Pine Apple Cordial. — Proof spirits,, ten gallons ; white sugar, 
eighty pounds, in as much water as is necessary to dissolve it ; ten 
sugar loaf pine apples, soft, ripe and in the rind, well iliashed; mix well 
and work for ten days, then add four drachms otto of roses ; let settle 
and bottle. 

Port Wine, ]?¥o. 1. — Burgundy port wine, five gallons ; elder- 
berry wine, fiftee-n gallons; brandy half a gallon; white sugar,, three 
pounds ; alum, three ounces. Mix well and digest for about two months 
stirring occasionally ; then put in a fresh cask, bung close and let stand 
at least twelve months before using. 

3. — Cider, twenty-seven gallons ; cherry brandy, six gallons ; proof 
spirit, five gallons ; sugar syrup, two gallons ; alcanet root, four pounds ; 
tartaric acid, half a pound ; a.lum, four ounces. Mix and treat as above. 

3. — Cidei*, twenty-four gallons ; juice of elderberries, six gallons; 
port wine, four gallons ; brandy, one and a half gallons ; isinglass, four 
ounces ; dissolved in one gallon of cider. Bung down and treat as above. 

Prepared 'Whiskey. — Common whiskey, twenty-eight gallons ; 
unslacked lime, one pound ; alum, half a pound ; sweet spirits of 
nitre, one pint. Mix well and digest twenty-four hour. 

Raisin Wine. — To every eight pounds of good raisins add one 
gallon of cold soft water. Put the whole into a vat or large tub, and 
keep well worked up every twenty-four hours until thoroughly sweet and 
fit to draw oft. The vat or tub anust be kept well covered with a mat 
or cloth. If the weather is warm the wine is fit to draw off generally 
in four or five weeks-— if cool seven or eight weeks. Cask but simply 
cover the bunghole with a piece of cloth to keep out the dust. Let 
stand about five months, then draw off into a fresh cask, carefully filter 
ing the lees. If not clear and bright, refine with isinglass dissolved in 
some of the wine, putting it in quite cold, and let rest a few days. 
Now add one gallon of the best brandy to each fourteen gallons of the 
^ine, and let stand for about three months when it Will be fit for u^. 

Ratafia. — (Britisll.) — Bruised bitter almonds, five pounds ; well 
bruised nutmegs, ten ounces; white sugar, ten pounds; ambergris, ten 
grains ; strong French brandy, six gallons ; mix and work well, keeping 
closely bunged, for a fortnight, then filter and bottle. 

Ratafia de Curacoa. — Yery superior proof spirit, two gal- 
lons and a half ; peelings of one dozen fine quality sweet oranges ; 
infused for fifteen days then add ten pounds of white sugar, dissolved 
in one gallon of water ; mace and cinnamon, each, well bruised, one 
3 



18 MINE OF WEALTH; AND, 

cjuarter of an ounce ; ground Brazil wood, one ounce ; bitter almonds, 
well bruised two pounds. Infuse the whole for ten days more, bring 
up the color, with brandy cploring, filter and bottle. 

Ratafia des Dames. — Stoned and bruised black currants, four 
pounds ; cloves, one and a half drachms ; cinnamon, two and a half 
drachms ; proof spirit, one gallon and a quarter ; white sugar, three 
pounds; digest well for fifteen days, in a close vessel, occasionally 
shaking it — ^let settle three days after last shaking, strain and bottle. 

Ratafia de Woyeail. — Bruised bitter almonds, two ounces ; proof 
spirit, one gallon ; two pounds of sugar dissolved in three pints of water*, 
cassia bruised, one quarter of an ounce ; cloves, one quarter of an ounce ; 
mix and work well for twenty days, then filter and bottle. , , 

Rhubarb Wimc. — (Cliampagiric.) — To every gallon of soft 
water, add five pounds of ripe rhubarb, cut into thin slices and well 
bruised ; let stand nine days stirring well three times a-day ; keep the 
tub or vat in which it is well covered with a cloth ; strain, and to every 
gallon of the liquor add four pounds of white sugar, two lemons sliced 
with peeling, and refine with one ounce of isinglass to every nine gal- 
lons ; let ferment three weeks, add one pint of brandy to each ten gallons 
and bring up. Make it in July and bottle in October, and put one table- 
spoonful of brandy and a teaspoonful of white sugar in each bottle when 
corking. 

Rum SSiraib, IVo. 1. — Oranges and lemons four dozen each j 
loaf sugar, twenty-five pounds ; rub the sugar on the fruit until the 
whole of the rind is off, then add twelve gallons of rum and allow the 
sugar to dissolve in the spirit; mix and add of lemon juice and orange 
juice each one gallon and a half and six gallons of water that has boiled 
and cooled again. Mix well, digest three days. j' 

2, Tartaric acid, five pounds ; white, sugar, one hundred and twelve 

pounds ; oil of lemons, four drachms ; oil of oranges, four drachms ; put 
them into an eighty gallon (or larger) cask, and add ten gallons of water. 
Work well until the sugar is dissolved, then add rum proof twenty-five 
gallons, and water to make up the whole to fifty-five gallons ; coloring 
one quart ; clear with twelve entire eggs, well beat up ; add now one 
dozen Seville oranges finely sliced, and three quarters of an ounce 
of bruised bitter almonds. Mix the whole well, let stand until clear 
and bottle. 



OUIDE FOB THE MILLION. , 19 

Itye "Wlftiskey. — Good com whiskey, thirty-eight gallons ; high 
wines, three gallons ; peaches bruised up, two pounds ; sugar, two 
pounds. Digest and mix well up for eight days. 

^anta Craaa I&UIII. — Prepared whiskey, twenty-five gallons ; 
Santa Cruz rum, three gallons; oil of carraway seed, one ounce ; spirits 
of nitre, four ounces^ tincture of kino, half; a^ o^ince. Digest twenty- 
four hours.. . ,.; f; u ...1. , i, f 

Sherry Wine. — Soft old racked cider, forty gallons ; proof spirit, 
two gallons ; raisins, five pounds ; sherry wine, six gallons ; bitter 
almond oil, half an ounce -dissolved in alcohol. Let stand ten days, fine 
down ^'fiid re-cask. :^. oiui^im xaa Kioit 9"iaq li 

Sig^lis of liOTe.— Proof spirit, three gallons'; wMte s'flgar," dis- 
solved in one and a half gallons of common rose water, eight pounds ; 
mix and add tincture of cochineal, to color. A fashionable cordial. 

Tomato WiBie. — The following recipe for the making of tomato 
wine, will retain all the well known medicinal properties of the fruit, 
and good judges unaware of its nature ha'V^e prdnounced It excellent ea- 
tawba wine. Express the juice of fully ripe tomatoes, but perfectly 
sound, and add one pound of loaf sugar, to each quart of the juice and 
bottle. In a few weeks it will have the appearance and flavor of wine 
of the best quality, No alcohol is needed to preserve it. Mixed with 
water it is a delightful and refreshing beverage for the sick. 

liV"liite Elder Flower "Witte. — (Imitation Frontinac) — Boil 
eighteen pounds of white sugar in six gallons of water, and the whites 
of two eggs. Well beaten up ; then skim repeatedly until no more rises, 
then add a quarter of a peck of elder flowers from the tree. Do not 
keep them on the fire. When nearly cold stir in four or five spoonsful 
of good yeast and the juice of four lemons and work well into the liquor, 
and keep well stirred daily for eight days, then add six pounds of the 
best raisins stoned. Bung the cask close anji let stand si,?: months then 
bottle. ! Jr.jinao r^rriw "Jo J-iji'iiqa 'tv> X'^'^«*^-'P 

WTltsliey Cord5aI.— Bruised cassia, one ounce ; bruised ginger, 
one ounce ; coriander seed, one ounce ; mace, cloves, and black pepper 
each iialf an ounce ; saffron, one ounce and a half; steep for five days 
in four gallons of whiskey, then add twelve pounds of sugar dissolved 
in five gallons of water. Clear with six eggs -beat up> Work well for 
ten days then let settle and bottle. nvm.-/' v) 

Wine Bitters, I^O. 1. — Any good wine will answer the purpose. 
Bruised gentian root, lemon peel, juniper berries and wMl^sCameiia', 



■iO UlKK OF WEALTH; AND, 

each one ounce and a half j braised cbinchona bark, eight ounces ; car- 
bonate of soda, one ounce j wine, one g'allon. Digest for twelve days, 
strain, press out the liquor and add half a pound of loaf sug^ar, 

2.-^FoK Restoring a Jaded Stomach, — Chamomile, bitter orange- 
peel, caraway seed, juniper berries— an ounce of each. Simmer slowly 
in a pint and a half of water till reduced to a pint. Strain and bottle. 
Take half a wine-glassful in an equal quantity of wine, say an hour be- 
fore dinner, daily. Unequalled in convalescence when bitter inedieines 
have not been much taken previously. 

"Wines,— How TO Detect Adulteration of.-— Champagne wine, 
if pure from any mixture not belonging to it forms a star in the centre 
of the effervescing froth, when poured into a glass standing on a table. 
Poor and adolterated wine named champagne is thus easily detected, as 
are also home made imitations from any fruit whatever, many of which 
owing to their sparkling qualities and close approach to real champagne 
have deceived some of the best judges of the wine. All other wines 
may easily be tried by slaking a piece of quick lime in water and bot- 
tling for use when perfectly clear and transparent. To test the suspected 
wine half 611 a wine glass with the lime water and fill up with the wine j 
if it turns black or muddy it is impure and adulterated if not the liquid 
will remain clear. 

HVoodeft Casks. — Wine and other liquors are subject to consider- 
able loss and even to changes which deteriorate them in consequence 
©f the porosity of the wooden casks in which they are kept. These evils 
may be prevented by drying and warming the casks, and then causing 
their interior to imbibe pure fused parafine. 

J¥c»te on E^Ksential Oils.-— All the essential oils mentioned itt 
the preceding receipts must be thoroughly killed in spirits of wine before 
being added to the other ingredients. By killing is meant that tbey 
mix thorougly with the spirits of wine without appearing oily. The 
quantity of spirits of wine cannot be determined upon, but by beginning 
with double the quantity that there is of oil, if Bot enough more can be 
added, until it is thoroughly mixed, 

mack and Red Bottle IVax.— As the bottling of wines 
Imd liquors properly is of the last importance, the following preparations 
will be fotsnd of greast utility for corking. 

Red "Wax. — Common resin, twenty pounds; tallow, five pounds; 
lampblack, four pounds f melt and mix with a gentle heat. 

Common Wax* — Kesln, pitch and ivory black in equal part9. 
Prepare a& above. 



GUIDE FOB THE MILLION. 2J 

To make this Chapter as complete as possible^ and at the same 
time give varied information, we annex the following highly valua- 
ble and important receipts for Summer and Winter Drinks and bev- 
erages : — 

RECEIPTS. 

/Summer Drinks, and Beverages, 

Appleade. — Cut two large apples in slices, and pour a quart of boil- 
ing water on them, strain well, and sweeten. To be drank when cold, 
or iced. 

Apricot Eliervescmg: ]>rink« — Take a pint of the juice 
of bruised apricots, filter until clear, and make into a syrup with half a 
pound of sugar, then add one ounce of tartaric acid, bottle, and cork well. 
For a tumbler three parts full of water, add two tablespoonfuls of the 
syrup, and a scruple of carbonate of soda, stir well, agd drink while 
effervescing. ■» ,<)'!('-. . - . 

JjBarley "Water. — 1. Pick clean, and wash well a handful of com- 
mon barley, then simmer gently in three pints of water with a bit 
of lemon-peel. Prepared thus, it does not nauseate like pearl barley 
Waftefj" ,,i 

^. — Take two ounces and a half of pearl barley : wash well, then add 
half a pint of water, and boil for a little time, throw away the liquor, 
pour four imperial pints of boiling water on the barley, boil down to 
two pints, strain, flavor with sugar, and lemon-peel if wished. 

Barley "Water, Compound. — Boil two pints of barley water, 
and a pint of water together, with two ounces and a half of sliced figs, 
half an ounce of licquorice root sliced and bruised, and two ounces and 
a half of raisins. Reduce to two pints, and strain. 

Beer, Treacle. — Take a pound and a half of hops, and boil in 
thirty-six gallons of water for an hour, then add fourteen pounds of trea- 
cle, and a little yeast to work it ; ferment, and bottle. 

Srown Sprwce Beer. — Pour four gallons of cold water into a 
nine-gallon barrel, then add four gallons more, quite boiling, and six 
poiinds of molasses, with about eight or nine table-spoofuls of the es- 
sence of spruce, and on its getting a little cooler, the same quantity 
of good ale yeast. Shake the barrel well, then leave with bung out for 
three days ; bottle in stone bottles, cork well, wire carefully, pack in 
sand, and it will be fit to drink in two weeks. 



i& 



MINE OF WEALTH, AND 



Capillaire I?Iock, IVo. 1. — Take three pounds and a half of 
loaf sugar, three quarters of a pound of coarse sugar, two whites of eggs 
well beaten with the shells, boil together in a pint and a half of water, 
and skim carefully. Then add an ounce of orange-flower water, strain 
and put into perfectly dry bottles. When cold, mix a tablespoonful or 
two of this syrup in a little warm or cold water. 

9. — Mix two teaspoonsful of curacoa with a pint of syrup. 

3. — Boil a quart of water well, add three pounds of white sugar, the 
white of an egg ; skim, and boil to a syrup ; then add while warm, 
four tablespoonsful of orange-flower water, strain, and use the same as 
the others. 

Capillaire, TrHe.--Take forty-eight grains of Canadian maiden- 
hair, (adianfum pedatum) , six drams of boiling water, and an ounce and 
twenty grains of white sugar. Infuse two-thirds of the maiden-hair in 
the water, strain, dissolve the sugar in the infusion. Clarify with the 
white of an egg, pour it over the remainder of the maiden-hair, placed 
in a water-bath, digest for two hours, and strain the syrup. For large 
quantities the proportions are: — maiden-hair, one hundred ninety-two 
parts. Boiling water, one thousand five hundred parts. White sugar, 
two thousand parts. 

Cherry Drank. — Prepare the same as apricot, substituting the 
cherry juice for the other fruit. 

Cobbler, Sherry. — Take some very fine and clean ice, break into 
small pieces, fill a tumbler to within an inch of the top with it, put a ta- 
blespoonful of plain syrup, capillaire, or any other flavor — some prefer 
strawberry — add the quarter of the zest of a lemon, and a few drops 
of the juice. Fill with sherry, stir it up, and let it stand for five or six 
minutes. Sip it gently through a straw. 

Cool Tankard. — Put into a quart of mild ale, a wine-glassful 
of white wine, the same of brandy, and capillaire, the juice of a lemon, 
and a little piece of the rind. Add a sprig of borage or balm, a bit 
of toasted bread and nutmeg grated on the top. 

Cranberry Drink. — Put a teacupful of cranberries into a cup 
of water, and mash them. Boil, in the meantime, two quarts of water 
with one large spoonful of oatmeal, and a bit of lemon-peel ; add cran- 
berries, and sugar, (but not too much, otherwise the fine sharpness of the 
fruit will be destroyed) a quarter of a pint of white wine, or less, accord- 
ing to taste ; boil for half an hour, and strain. 

Curds and Whey— Cheap JTIethod.— Add six grains of cit- 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 23 

ric acid to a wineglassful of milk, and the result will be a pleasant 
acidulous whey, and a fine curd. 

Curds; and "Whey — ItallaBi MetSaod. — Take several of the 
rough coats that line the gizzards of turkeys and fowls, cleanse from 
the dirt, rub well with salt, and hang them up to dry ; when required 
for use, break off some of the skin, pour boiling water on, digest for 
eight or nine hours, and use the same as rennet. 

Cnrrant "Water. — Take a pound of currants, and squeeze into a 
quart of water ; put in four or five ounces of pounded sugar. Mix well, 
strain, and ice, or allow to get cold. 

!Drink. ©iVlBte. — Mix a bottle of cider, half a bottle of perry, 
atid the same of sherry, with half a gill of brandy, then add a sliced 
leinon, the rind pared as thin as possible, and a toasted biscuit, which is 
to be added to the liquor as hot as possible. Drink iced or cooled. 
'^^EffervesclBig liCmoiiade. — Boil two pounds of white sugar 
with a pint of lemon-juice, bottle and cork. Put a tablespoonful of the 
syrup into a tumbler about three parts full of cold water, add twenty 
grains of carbonate of soda, and drink quickly. ' 

Ginger Seer, Iiadiail. — To ten quarts of boiling water, add 
two ounces of pounded ginger, one ounce of cream of tartar, two limes, 
and two pounds of sugar. Stir until cold, then strain through flannel 
until quite clear, adding a pint of beer, and four wineglassesful of good 
toddy. Bottle, tie down the corks, skake each bottle well for some time, 
place them upright, and they will be fit to drink the next day. This 
does not keep long. 

Ginger liemonade. — Boil twelve pounds and a half of lump 
sugar for twenty minutes in ten gallons of water ; clear it with the 
whites of six eggs. Bruise half a pound of common ginger, boil with 
the liquor, and then pour it upon ten lemons pared. When quite cold, 
put it in a cask, v^th two tablespoonsful of yeast, the lemons sliced, and 
half an ounce of isinglass. Bung up the cask the next day ; it will be 
ready to bottle in three weeks, and to drink in another three weeks. 

Hippocras. — Digest for three days half a drachm of mace, ginger, 
cloves, nutmegs, and gatingale, in three quarts of Lisbon wine, and also 
carraway, add an ounce of cinnamon. Strain, and mix twenty ounces 
of white sugar with the liquor. 

Imperial, Bottled. — Pour a pint of boiling water on a drachm 
of creamof tartar, flavor with lemon-peel and sugar, and bottle. 
'Imperial Brisik. — Put half an ounce of cream of tartar, four 



24 MINK OP WEALTH; AND, 

ounces of white sugar, and thi'ee ounces of orange-peel, into a pan ; 
pour three pints of boiling water on, strain, and cool. 

IllipeB'sa3 F05>. — Take three ounces of cream of tartar, an ou^ce 
of bruised ginger, a pound and a half of white sugar, an ounce of lemon- 
juice, and pour a gallon and a half of boiling water on them, add two 
tableapoonsful of yeast. Mix, bottle, and tie down the corks as usuaL 

Kin^ Ch|>. — Take the rind and juice of a lemon, a lump of sugar,,, 
a small piece of bruised ginger, and pour on them about one pint and a 
half of boiling water ; when cold, strain, add a wineglassfal of sherry^ 
and ice. 

liemonade. — Take sixteen lemons, pare thin, cut in halves, squeeze 
well, and throw all into a pan ; add a pound and a half of white sugar, 
a gallon of boiling water, and five tablespoonsful of white wine (four 
if sherry), mix, strain, and cool. 

jUaisit eFwlei?. — Put about a dozen of the young sprigs of mint into 
a tumbler, add a tablespoonful of white sugar, and half a wineglassful 
of peach, and the same of common brandy, then fill up the tumbler with 
pounded ice. ' 

©range I>rank, Effervescing. — Put the juice of six or eight 
oranges, two quarts of boiling water, and two drachms of tartaric acid 
into a bottle. When required for use, pour out a tumblerftil, and add 
thirty grains of carbonate of soda. 

Poor Man's Champagne. — Put a pint of Scotch ale into a 
jug, and add a bottle of good ginger beer. 

Quince Syrup. — Grate quinces, pass the pulp through a sieve, 
then set before the fire for the juice to settle and clarify ; strain and add 
a pound of sugar (boiled down) to every four ounces of juice ; remove 
from the fire, and when cold, bottle for use. A tablespoonful of this 
syrup will flavor a pint of water. 

Royal I^eanonade. — Pare two Seville orangee and six lemons 
as thin as possible, and steep them four hours in a quart of hot water ; 
boil a pound and a quarter of loaf sugar in three pints of hot water, 
skim it, and add the two liquors to the juice of six China oranges and a 
dozen lemons ; stir well, strain through a jelly-bag, and ice. 

Raspberry Sherbet — Add half an ounce of raspberry vinegar 
to half a pint of iced water. 

Raspberry Vinegar. — Put a pound of fine fruit into a bow], 
pour upon it a quart of the best white wine vinegar, next day strain the 
liquoT on it piund of fresh raspberries; the following day do the same, 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. ^ 

but do not squeeze the fpuit only drain the liquor ^s dry as you oan. 
Bottle, and cork well, then cover the corks with bottle cem^jQt. , ,, 

Sangaree. — Mix a bottle of Marsela wine with a bottle and a half 
of iced water, sweeten with loaf sugar, and flavor with lemon-juice, apd 
grated nutmeg. vn;- 

Sherbet, liemon. — Mix half a dram of tartaric acid, an ounce 
and a half of white sugar, with half a pint of water, and flavor with 
essence of lemons. i\oBr'ib ^ 

Supreme Mectar. — Put in a nine gallon cask six pounds of moist 
sugar, five ounces of bruised ginger, four ounces of cream of tartar, 
four lemons, eight ounces of yeast, and seven gallons of boiling water. 
Work two or three days, strain, add brandy one pint, bung very close, 
ajid in fourteen days bottle, aud wire down. 

Tamarind ©rink.— Boil three pints of water with an otince and 
a half of tamarinds, three ounces of currants, and two ounces of stoned 
raisins, till about a third has evaporated. Strain, add a bit of lemon- 
peel, which is to be removed in half an hour, then cool. 

IVhite Spruce Beer. — Take six pounds of white sugar, four 
ounces of essence of spruce, ten gallons of boiling water, and an ounce 
of yeast. Work the same as in making ginger beer, and bottle imme- 
diately in half pints. Brown spruce beer is made with treacle ii^ 
stea4 Gf sugar. 

' ' Winter Drinks, and Beverages. 

Aleberry. — Mix two large spoonsful of fine oatmeal in sufficient 
sweet small beer, two hours previous to using it; strain well, boil, and 
sweeten according to taste, Pour into a Warm jug, add wine, lemon 
juice, and nutmeg to taste, serve hot with thin slips of toast or rusk. 

Ale, Iflufiled. — Boil a pint of good sound ale with a little grated 
nutmeg and sugar. Beat up three eggs, and mix them with a little cold 
ale ; then add the hot ale to it gradually, and pour backwards and for- 
wards from one vessel to the other several times, to prevent it curdling. 
Warm, and stir till it thickeu^, then add a tablespoonful of brandy, and 
serve hot with toast. 

Arrack, Mock. — Take a scruple (twenty grains) of benzoic acM, 
and add to a quart of rum. Prepare punch with it. i 

Athol Brose. — Add two wineglassesful of Scotch whiskey to a 
wineglassful of heather-honey ; mix well, and then stir in a well-beaten 
new laid egg. ''^'^P "•' Jnod« iiod it Jo'l 



26 MINE OF WEALTH; AND, 

^Bang. — Take a pint of cider and add to a pint of warm ale; 
sweeten with treacle or sugar to taste, grate in some nutmeg and ginger, 
and add a wineglassful of gin or whisky. 

Bishop. — Take three smooth-skinned and large Seville oranges, 
and grill them to a pale brown color over a clear slow fire ; then place 
in a small punch-bowl that will about hold them, and pour over them 
half a pint from a bottle of old Bordeaux wine, in which a pound and a 
quarter of loaf sugar is dissolved ; then cover with a plate, and let it 
stand for two days. When it is to be served, cut and squeeze the 
oranges into a small sieve placed above a jug containing the remainder 
of the bottle of sweetened Bordeaux, previously made very hot, and 
if when mixed it is not sweet enough, add more sugar. Serve hot 
in tumblers. 

Some persons make Bishop with raisins or Lisbon wine, and mace, 
cloves, and nutmegs, but it is not the proper way. 

Cardinal is made the same way as Bishop, substituting ol(l 
Rhenish wine for the Bordeaux. 

Clary, Mock. — Warm a bottle of claret, sweeten with honey, and 
add allspice and cloves to taste. Serve hot. 

CramliailllbuSfl. — Take two bottles of light porter or ale, and boil 
them in a pan. Then put into the liquor half a pint of rum, and from 
half a pound to a pound of loaf sugar. After this has been boiling for a 
few minutes, take the whole from the fire, and put into the mixture 
the whites and yolks of from six to eight eggs, previously well whisked ; 
stir the whole for a minute or two, and pour it into a punch-bowl, to be 
drunk out of tumblers. It tastes well hot or cold. 

Caudle, IVo. 1. — Make half a pint of fine gruel with very fine 
groate or oatmeal ; add a piece of butter the size of a large nutmeg, 
a tablespoonful of brandy, the same of white wine, a little grated nut- 
Dicg and lemon-peel, and serve hot. 

2, — Put three quarts of water into a pot, set over the fire to boil ; 
miA hmooth as much oatmeal as will thicken the whole with a pint 
of cold water, and when the water boils, pour in the thickening, and 
add about twenty peppercorns finely powdered. Boil till pretty thick, 
then add sugar to taste, half a pint of good ale, and a wineglassful 
of gin, all warmed up together. Serve hot. 

Caudle, Brown. — Take a quart of water, mix in three table- 
spoonsful of oatmeal, a blade of mace, and a small piece of lemon-peel ; 
let it boil about a quarter of an hour, skimming and stirring it well, but 



QVtt>E P'OR THE MILLION. 27 

taking care that it does not boil over. When done^i Mrain through a 
coarse sieve, sweeten to taste, add a little grated nutmeg^ a pint of good^ 
sweet ale, and half pint of white wine ; then serve hot. 

CaiadSe, Cwfld. — Boil a quart of spring water, when cold, add the 
yolk of an egg, the juice' of a small lemon, six tablespoonsful of raisin 
wine, and sugar to taste, i ii/iiw • : ; , , ;. i j 

CaMcBlCj FSoiif. — Take''a'Wesge^tsj>b6nfnl oT finW flour, and rub it 
into a smooth bat4;er, with five tablespoonsful of spring water. Put a 
quarter of a pint of new milk into a saucepan, set over the fire, with 
two lumps of sugar, and when it boils, stir the flour and water grad- 
ually into it, and keep stirring for twenty minutes over a slow fire. 
Nutmeg or ginger may be grated in, if thought proper. 

Caildle, FlmiMBiaeFy. — Put half a pint of fine oatmeal into a quart 
of spring water, and let it stand all night. In the morning stir it well, 
and strain through a coarse sieve into a skillet or saucepan, then add two 
blades of mace and some grated nutmeg; set on the fire, keep stirring 
and let boil for a quarter of an hour, when if too thick, add a little more 
water, and let it boil a few minutes longer ; then add half a pint of white 
wine, a tablespoonful of orange-flower water, the juice of a lemon, the 
same of an orange, sugar to taste, and a piece o| butter about the size 
of a walnut; warm the whole together, thicken with the yolk of a 
well-beaten egg, and drink hot. 

Cawdle, ©atmeal. — Take a quart of ale, a pint of stale beer,, and 
a quart of water ; mix all together, and add a handful of fine oatmeal, 
six cloves, two blades of mace, some nutmeg, and eight allspice berries 
bruised. Set over a slow fire, and let it boil for half an hour, stirring 
it well all the time ; then strain through a coarse sieve, add half a 
pound of sugar, or to taste, a piece of lemon-peel. Pour into a pan, 
cover close, and warm before serving. 

Caudle, ISice. — Make the same as flour caudle, using ground rice 
instead of flour, and when done add cinnamon and sugar to taste, and 
a wineglassful of brandy. 

Caisdle, Tea. — Make a pint of strong green tea, pour it into a 
Saucepan, and set over a slow fire. Beat the yolks of two eggs well. 
and mix with half a pint of white wine, some grated nutmeg, and sugar 
to taste; then pour into the saucpan, stir well until hot, and serve. ", 

Cawdfle, WMte — Mix two tablespoonsful of fine oatmeal m " 
quart of water, two hours before using it, strain through a sieve and ho:j 
it, then sweeten with sugar, and season with lemon-juice and nutmeg 



aaB MmK OF wealth; and, 

•: ^ifievilled Ale. — Cut a slice of bread about an inch thick, toast and 
battel it, then sprinkle with cayenne pepper and ginger, and place in the 
bottom of a jug, add a pint of warm ale, and sugar to taste. 

I^SS Flip, — To mix a quart of flip put the ale on the fire to warm, 
and beat up three or four eggs with four ounces of moist sugar ; remove 
the froth of the ale, while on the fire, until it begins to boil, mix the froth 
with the sugar and eggs, add grated nutmeg or ginger to taste, and a 
girl of rum. When the ale boils, stir it gradually into the eggs and rum, 
until quite smooth, then serve. 

jjgg- ^i^'lBie. — Beat up an egg and mix it with a tablespoonful 
of spring water. Put a wineglassful of white wine, half a glass of spring 
water, and sugar and nutmeg to taste, into a small saucepan, place over 
a slow fire, and when it boils add it gradually to the egg, stirring well ; 
then return the whole to the saucepan, and place over the fire again, 
stir for a minute, remove, and serve with toast. 

If it boils when placed on the fire a second time, it will curdle, 

£lder ^Vane, ITIillled. — Put sufficient wine into a saucepan, 
warm over the fire, and if requisite add sugar, spice, or water. When 
warmed, serve Avith thin slips of toast or rusks. 

Fun. — Take half a dozen or more lemons, as may be desired, and 
extract the juice, adding half the bulk of water ; saturate Avith loaf sugar, 
then heat to boiling point and add an equal quantity of best gin, brandy 
or whisky according to taste, grate a little nutmeg on it, serve thus 
hot in tumblers and you have a " night-cap " for a winter's night that 
cajinot be equalled. A strong solution of citric acid will answer in- 
stead of lemons, if they cannot be obtained. 

BEot Pupl. — Put a quart of mild ale into a saucepan, add a table- 
spoonful of nutmeg, and place over a slow fire until it nearly boils. 
Mix a little cold ale with sugar to taste, and, gradually, two eggs well 
beaten; then add the hot ale, stirring one way to prevent curdling — ■ 
and a quarter of a pint of whisky. Warm the whole again, and then 
pour from one vessel into another till it becomes smooth. 

Jingle. — Koast three apples, grate some nutmeg over them, add 
sugar to taste, and place in a quart jug, with some slices of toasted 
plum cake ; make some hot ale, and fill up the jug, then serve 

Oxford ]\fl^htcap. — Take half a tumbler of tea made as usual 
with sugar and milk, add a slice of lemon, a wineglassful of new milk, 
and the same of rum or brandy ; beat up a new-laid egg, and add to 
the whole while warm. 



(itJIDK FOR THE MILLION. 29 

iPoor man's Brink.— Take two quarts of water, and place in a 
Baucepan with four ounces of pearl barley, two ounces of figs split, two 
ounces of stoned raisins, and an ounce of root-liquorice sliced ; boil all 
together till only a quart remains ; then strain, and use as a drink 

,,iPo$set Ale.— Boil a pint of new milk with a slice of toasted bread, 
feweeten a bottle of mild ale, and pour it into a basin with nutmeg or 
other spice, add the boiling milk to it, and when the head rises serve. 
Posset, Cold.— Take a pint of cream, half a pint of white wine, 
the juice of half a lemon, and the peel rasped into it. Sweeten the 
cream and wine, put the latter into a basin, and then pour the cream from 
a height into the basin, stirring both well all the time ; remove the 
froth, let it remain for a day in lukewarm water if the weather is cold, 
and then serve. 

,,', Posset, Jelly. Take eight eggs, leave but "the whites of four, 
and beat all the remainder well together in a basin ; then add half a 
pint of white wine, a little strong ale (to taste), and sugar; put into a 
saucepan, and set over a slow fire, stirring all the time. Boil a pint 
of milk with a little nutmeg and cinnamon, just enough to flavor it, 
and, when the eggs and wine are hot, add the boiling milk to it; then 
remove from the fire, pour into a punch-bowl, cover with a plate for 
half an hour, then sprinkle the top with poujided sugar, and serve. 

Posset, Liemon. — Steep the rind of a lemon pared thin, in a pii^t 
of sweet white wine two hours before required, add the juice of one 
lemon, and sugar to taste ; put it in a bowl with a quart of milk or 
cream, and whisk one way until very thick. This will fill twenty 
glasses, which may be filled the day before required. --^-' 

Posset, Orang^e.— Take the crumb of a penny loaf grated ine,. 
and put it into a pint of water, with half the peel of a Seville orange 
grated, or sugar rubbed upon it. Boil all together till it looks thick and 
clear ; then take the juice of one half a Seville orange, three ounces 
of sweet, and one ounce of bitter almonds, beat well with a tablespoon* 
ful of brandy, add sugar to taste, and a pint of white or raisin wine; 
mix well, add to the posset, and serve. 

Posset, Pope's.— -Blanch and pound four ounces of sWeet almonds, 
and half an ounce of bitter ones ; add boiling water, and strain, sweeten, 
and make hot half a bottle of white wine ; mix. 

Planter's Punch. — Infuse two ounces of go6d green tea in a 
pint of boiling waiter, and when well drawn, draw off without sediment; 
dissolve ih it about half a pound of blast white lump sugar ; take three 



dO MINE OF WEALTH; AND 

large full lemons and rub off the rind with q, second half pound of lump 
sugar to impregnate with the essential oil, then cut up the lemons in 
small slices and bruise ; add a small pot of pure guava jelly, and mix 
the whole thoroughly ; next add six wineglasses of best cognac brandy, 
two of madeira wine, one bottle of old rum and about a quart of boil* 
ing water. Work up and mix thorougly, add a little grated nutmeg, 
and you have a punch that cannot be surpassed, if equalled by any 
other compounded. 

Posset, RoyaB. — Take a pint of ale, mix a pint of cream with it ; 
then add the yolks of four and the whites of two eggs well beaten, 
sweeten to taste and flavor with nutmeg. Pour into a saucepan, set 
over the fire, stir well until thick, and before; it boils :, pour into a basin 
and serve hot. 

Possctj Hack. — Put a quart of new milk into a saucepan, and 
place it over a slow clear fire. When it boils, crumble four Damascus 
biscuits into it ; give it one boil, remove from the fire, add grated nut- 
meg and sugar to taste, stir in half a pint of sack, (canary wine,) and 
serve. French roll will answer instead of the biscuit. 

Posset, iSiaow. — Boil a stick of cinnamon, and a quarter of a nut- 
meg, with a quart of new milk, and when it boils remove the spice. 
Beat the yolks of ten eggs well, and mix gradually with the milk until 
thick ; then beat the whites of the eggs with sugar and canary wine 
into snow. Put a pint of canary (sack) into a saucepan, sweeten to 
taste; set over a slow fire, and pour the milk and snow into the sauce- 
pan, stirring all the time it is over the fire ; when warm, remove from 
the fire, cover close, and set aside for a little time before being used. 

Posset, Treacle. — Boil a pint of milk, add sufficient treacjp to 
curdle it ; allow the curd to settle, strain off, the liquid, and drink it as 
hot as possible. 

Posset, 'WiBHe. — Boil some slices of white bread in a quart 
of milk ; when quite soft take it off the fire, add sugar and grated nut- 
meg to taste. Pour it into a basin, add a pint of raisin or sweet wine 
by degrees, and serve with toasted bread. 

-hPuRCli, Cofld. — Pour half a pint of gin on the rind of a lemon; 
add a tablespoonful of lemon-juice, a wineglassful of maraschino, a 
pint and a half of water, and two bottles of iced water. 

, Punch, Common.^ — Take two large fresh lemons with rough 
skins and full of juice. Rub some large lumps of white sugar over the 
lemons till they have acquired the oil from the rind, then put them into 



GUIDE I!OR, THE MILLION. .SI 

« feowl with as much more as is necessary to sweeten the punch to 
taste ; then squeeze the lemon-juice upon the sugar, and bruise the 
sugar in the juice, add a, quart of boiling water and mix . well ; ^then 
strain through a fine sieve, and add a quart of, rum. or a^(j^int,,of rum 
and brandy, or a pint and a half of rum and half a pint of porji^r |^ th^n 
add three quarts more water, and mix well. 

About half a pound of sugar is usually required, but it is impossible 
to fix a limit to sugar, spirits, or lemon-juice, as they depend upon taste. 

Plincli Milk — For Cheistmas-Dat.— Add the peel and juice 
^f twenty-four lemons, and three pounds aiOd a half of loaf sugar, to 
five bottles of cold water, and four bottles of rum ; when these are well 
mixed, add two bottles of boiling milk, and mix the whole well. Let 
it stand for twenty-four hours, strain well, bottle, and cork tight ; it is 
then ready for use. N. B. The finer the strainer is, the better the 
punch. This is the best receipt we have ever seen or used. ; . .; 

Piiiaclaj, Milli, ©rdiatary. — Pare six orange* and six lemons 
as thin as you can ; grate them over with sugar to get the flavor. 
Steep the peels in a bottle of rum or brandy stopped close twenty-four 
hpurs. Squeeze the fruit on two pounds of .sugar, add, to it four quarts 
of water and one of new milk boiling hot ; stir the rum into the whole, 
run through a jelly-bag till clear, bottle and cork close immediately. 

Pemclij ll,€gesat. — Take a bottle of Champagne, a quarter of a 
pint of brandy, the juice of a lemon, a Seville orange, and a wineglassful 
of Martinique, with this mix a pint or more of a strong infusion of the 
best green tea strained, and syrup or sugar to taste. 
.y. Pwincli a la ll.oiIB«aliae. — Take a quart of lemon ice, add the 
whitep of three eggs well beaten, with rum and brandy, till the ice 
liquefies, in the proportion of three parts of rum to one of brandy, and 
water to taste. Then add a teacupful of strong green tea in-fusion, 
strained, and a little champagne. 

Pumcli, Tea— Infuse two ounces of hyson tea, and an onnice 
of black tea, in three quarts of boiling water ; then add four pounds 
of loaf sugar, citric acid and spirit of citron, of each six drachms ; rum 
one pint, and five pints of brandy; mix well, and serve. 

Toddy, Hilttea'ed. — Mix a glass of rum-grog pretty strong a,nd 
hot, sweeten to taste with honey, flavor witl; nutmeg and lemon-juice, 
and add a piece of fresh butter about the size of a walnut. 

"Wliae Melted, Mo. t. — Boil some cloves, mace, cinnamon, 
and nutmeg, in about a quarter of a pint of water till well flavored 



.82 MINE OF wealth; and, 

with spice, then add to a pint of port or home-made wine; sweeten to 
taste, and serve hot with thin toast or rusks. 

S. Boil a small stick of cinnamon, a blade of mace, and three cloves, 
in a breakfast cupful of water for a few minutes ; add some grated nut- 
meg, and a pint of home-made or port wine, sweeten to taste, boil for 
one minute, and serve hot. 

3. Put a bottle of port wine, half a bottle of water, and sugar to taste, 
into a saucepan ; then add allspice, cloves, and a blade of mace ; boil all 
together, serve in a jug with grated nutmeg, and rusks or slips of thin 
toast. Some persons add lemon-juice to the mull, but it does not 
generally please. •^i''' *■ '' 

Wine Whey. — -IPnt naif a pint of new milk in a saucepan, set on 
the fire, and when it boils add as much raisin wine as will turn it ; let 
it boil up, then set the saucepan aside till the curd subsides, but do not 
stir it. Pour off the whey, then add half a pint of boiling water, and 
white sugar to taste. 

To Preserve I^iquors Colorless. — Oaken barrels may be pre- 
vented fi'om coloring spirit by dissolving one part of ammonia alum, and 
two parts of sulphate of iron in one hundred parts. Well wash the casks 
with this solution, boiling hot, and allow them to stand twenty-four 
hours. Then rinse out the casks well, dry them, and finally give them 
a washing with a thin solution of silicate of soda. 



Brewing. 

General Notice — Before entering on a description of the process 
of brewing, it will be necessary to notice the apparatus and 
materials required for its conduct. 

' A copper or boiler capable of holding fully two-thirds of the 
quantity proposed to be brewed ; with a gauge-stick to determine 
the number of gallons of fluid at given depth therein. A copper 
holding about 140 gallons is a convenient size for brewing a 
quarter of malt. 

A mash-tub, or tun, capable of containing rather more than the 
copper. 

One or more tuns, or vessels, to ferment the beer in. 

Three or four shallow coolers to reduce the wort as rapidly aa 
possible to a proper temperature for fermenting. 



One or tvo copper or wooden dowIs, for Dailing, &c. 

A thermometer with a scale reaching from Zero to above the. 
boiling point of water. ^, 

A suitable number of casks [clean] to contain the beer. 

One or more large funnels, or tunners. 

Two or more clean pails. 

A hand-pump of a size proportionate to the brewing. 

The materials necessary to brew beer are, good malt, hops, and 
water, and a little yeast. 

The malt is bruised or crushed in a mill before brewing, that it 
may be acted on the more readily by the water. It should not be 
ground too small, as it would then make the wort thick ; the 
OTUshed malt may advantageously lie for a few days in a cool 
situation, by which it will attract a considerable quantity of moist- 
ure from the air, and consequently its soluble portion will be the 
more easily dissolved out by the water used in mashing. Pale malt 
may be used coarser than amber or brown malt. A bushel of malt 
should make a bushel and a quarter when ground, and a quarter 
should yield between 9 and 10 bushels, the quantity slightly vary- 
ing according to the degree of bruising it has undergone. On the 
large scale, malt is ground in crushing mills, furnished with iron 
rollers ; and on a small scale, by wooden rollers or small mills 
worked by hand. For private brewing, the malt is generally bought 
ready ground, for convenience sake. The hops should be those 
of the previous season. 

The quantity of hops required to a given measure of malt varies 
from 2 lbs. to 8 lbs of the former, to 1 quarter of the latter, accord- 
ing to the nature of the brewing. For good strong beer, i lbs. or 
4 1-2 lbs. is usually sufficient, but when the liquor is very strong, and 
it is intended to be highly aromatic, and to be kept for a long 
period, l'lb.\ of hops may be used to every bushel of malt, or 8 lbs. 
to the qiiarter. Mild porter has about 3 lbs. to the quarter, and 
weak common beer has frequently only about 1-2 lb. of hops to the 
bushel of malt. 

The water should be soft and clear, the yeast sweet and good, and 
all the vessels and casks both sweet and clean. If this be not the 
case, with the latter especially, the best brewing in the world will 
be useless. 



S4 MINE OP WEALTH; AND, 

Process of Brewing. This may be divided into .^ 

The Mashing. — This operation consists in placing the ground or 
bruised malt in a large tub or " tun," known by the name of the 
" mash-tun," macerating it for some time in hot water, and lastly 
drawing off the wort from a hole in the bottom, over which a bunich 
of straw, or a strainer, or false bottom, is placed, to prevent the 
malt passing out along with the liquor. During the process, of 
mashing, a peculiar principle, called by chemists diastase, reacts 
upon the starch also contained in the malt, and converts it first into 
a species of gum, called by the French chemists " dextrine," and 
then into a species of sugar resembling that produced by the action 
of sulphuric acid. The greater the quantity of starch converted 
into sugar in this way, the stronger and finer will be the wort. It 
therefore becomes a desideratum with the brewer to mash at a 
temperature that will most fully promote this object. 

The action of the first mash is n>erely to extract the sugar con- 
tained in the malt already formed ; that of the second to convert the 
starch into sugar by the action of the diastase ; the third to fully 
complete this object, as well as to carry away the remaining 
portion of extract. 

The mashing is usually performed by filling the copper with 
water, and as soon as it acquires the temperature of 145 ^ in summer, 
or 167 ^ in winter, 45 gallons are run off into the mash-tun, and 1 
quarter of crushed malt gradually thrown in and well mixed by 
laborious working, until it becomes throughly incorporated and 
no lumps remain ; the agitation is then continued for 30 or 40 
minutes," "when 36 gallons of water from the boiler, at a temperature 
of 200 ® are added, and the whole again well agitated until thoroughly 
mixed. The mash-tun is now closely covered up, and allowed to 
stand for an hour or an hour and a half. At the end of this time the 
tap'is set, and the wort is drawn off into the " underback,",aud gene- 
rally aihounts to about 50 to 52 gallons: 60 gallons of water, at a 
temperature of 200 o J are next added to the mash-tun, previously 
drained Well, and after being well worked, the whole is covered up 
as before. This mash is allowed to remain for an hour, when it is 
drawn off, and the malt again drained ready for the third mash, 
•this time only 35 gallons of water are added at 200 ® , and allowed 



GtriDE FOR THE MILLION, |j| 

to Stand for 1-2 an hour, when it is run off in the same manner as 
before, and the malt allowed to drain. The worts aire now ready 
for boiling, 

IL BoiLmo-. — The wort is- next transferred to the copper, 
and heated to the boiling point as soon as possible. In large 
breweries where several coppers are employed, the first mash is no 
sooner run into the underback, than it is transferred to the wort 
copper, and immediately boiled, and the successive mashings added 
as soon as drawn off; but in private houses, where there is only 
one copper, the boiling cannot be commenced until the water for 
the last mashing is removed. In some cases the worts are brewed 
separately, thus producing 2 or 3 qualities of beer, viz, strong ale 
or stout, beer and table beer. No sooner has the boiling com- 
menced than the hops may be added, and the boiling continued for 
2 or 3 hours or more. 

In general, two hours good boiling will be found sufficient. In 
small brewings the first wort should be sharply boiled for 1 hour, 
and the second for 2 hours. But if intended for beer of long keep- 
ing, the time should be extended half an hour. The hops should' 
be strained from each preceding wort, and returned into the copper 
with the succeeding one. Between the boilings the fire should be 
damped with wet cinders, and the copper door set open. 

III. Cooling. — The boiling being finished, the wort is run off 
from the copper into the hopback, which is furnished with a strainer 
to keep back the hops. It is then pumped into large square shallow' 
vessels called " coolel's," where it is exposed to a good current of air 
to cool it down ■td^&)''^iPd]pef'' fermenting temper as; 
possible. This is of the utmost importance for the success of the 
brewing. The wort should be laid so shallow as to cool within 6 
or f' hours to the temperature of about 60 ® . In warm weather, the' 
depth- should not exceed 3 or 4 inches^ but in cold weather it may 
be 6 or 6 inches. As soon as the heat has fallen to about* 60 o , it' 
should be instantly tunned and yeasted. 

IV. FEEMENTATiON.-^When the wort is sufficiently cool, it is run 
into the fermenting tuns or ves^6ls, which in small brewings may 
be casks, with one of their heads removed. These are called " gyle 
tiMis," and should no«' fee-Biore -than two-thirds' full. The yeast,, 



ff MINE OF WEALTH; AND, 

previously mixed with a little wort, and kept until this latter has 
begun to ferment, may now be added, and the whole agitated well ; 
the tun should then be covered up, until the fermentation is well 
established. During this process the temperature rises from 9 o to 
150. ; m', lit 

V. Cleansing, — When the fermentation has proceeded to a 
certain extent, the liquor undergoes the operation called " cleans- 
ing." This consists in drawing it of from the gyle tun into other 
vessels, or casks, set sloping, so that the yeast, as it forms, may work 
off the one side of the top, and fall into the vessel placed below tc* 
receive it. In small brewings, the beer is often at once transferred 
from the gyle tun to the store casks, which are sloped a little until 
the fermentation is over, when they are skimmed, filled, and bunged 
up. When the operation of cleansing is not employed, the yeast is 
removed from the surface of the gyle tun with a skimmer, and the 
clear liquor drawn off into the store casks. 

VI. Storing. — As soon as the fermentation is concluded, which 
generally takes from 6 to 8 days, or more, the clear liquor is drawn 
off into the store casks, or vats, which are then closely bunged downy 
and deposited in a cool cellar. 

VII. EiPENiNG. — After a period, varying from 1 to 12 months,. 
or more, according to the nature of the brewing, the liquor will 
have become fine, and sufficiently ripe for use. 

VIII. Fining. — It frequently happens that malt liquor, especi- 
ally porter, with all the care bestowed upon it in brewing, will not 
turn out sufficiently fine to meet the taste and eye of the consumer,^ 
in which case it is usually subjected to the operation of " clarifying." 
For this purpose 1 oz. of isinglass is put into 1 quart of weak vine- 
gar, or still better, hard beer, and when dissolved, a sufficient quan- 
tity of good beer may be added to make it measure 1 gallon. This 
mixture is called " finings ;" 1 to 2 pints of which is the proper 
quantity . for a barrel. The method of using it, is to put the finings 
into a bucket, and to gradually add some of the beer, until the 
bucket is three parts full, during which time it is violently agitated 
with a whisk, and this is continued until a good frothy head is raised 
upon it, when it is thrown into the bftrrel of < beer, and the whole 
well rummaged up, by means of a large stick shoved in at the 
bunghole. In a few days the beer "^ill usually become fine. 



WIDE FOR THE MILLION 37 



^' OHAF^BiS ii. 

WhecU — Flow, a/nd the various Preparations of Bread, and Grachers. 

r,I.T is by understanding the constituents of our food we are ena- 
bled to make proper selections. We have to determine whether it 
is " flesh and blood " we aim at that is to say nutrition, or the part 
only that maintains the lamp of life. These are said to be nitrogenous, 
or non -nitrogenous, as they are capable of supporting life, or only 
in warming the body. 

, la the first list we will mention wheat, oats, barley, Indian corn 
and rice ; in the second all pure starches, arrowroot, tapioca, corn 
starch and the like— but wheat is the principal ; it is foremost of 
them all in nitrogenous value, and it is this also that principally con- 
cerns us in our varieties of pastry and bread which we will speak 
of more at large. 

Wheat ground and separated by sifting yields us much that nour- 
ishes and much that only warms. The outside of a kernel of wheat 
is richest in nutritive qualities, the inside in warming qualities ; 
hence the coarser the flour the more wholesome, the finer the less 
power of sustaining life ; and as the starch, or non-nitrogenous parts 
pf wheat are more subdivisible than the outer or nitrogenous parts, 
so only the fine particles of starch are able to pass the fine bolting 
cloths that are used for the manufacture of the finest flour — finest in 
point of minuteness but by no means the finest or most desirable for 
wholesome bread. Yet flour preparations are said, or thought not 
to look well except it be thus compounded principally of wheaten 
4 



^ MINE OF WEALTH, AND 

Starch. Let it be remembered that in making any mixture of flotir 
there are certain conditions of success that cannot with impunity be 
neglected ; and it is known to be due to a just consideration of these 
that some housewives have made themselves famous not only in the 
eyes of their own families, whose sound health indicate their excel- 
lent judgement and management, but before the world as teachers of 
the important art of making those popular articles of the table, 
which though graced with a hundred names and made in a thou- 
sand ways are after all but pastries led off by the " staff of life,"— 

EVEN BREAD. 

Perhaps no article of daily consumption comes less uniformly 
good to the consumer's hand ; not only is the flour subject to a dif- 
ference of quality, for all wheats do not yield the same proportions, 
but it may be adulterated with gypsum, or spoiled in the harvesting, 
or in the cleaning by leaving in wild garlic, or in the grinding by 
heat, or in the storage by damp, or even in the packing, in barrels 
by sourness. Again, supposing the best flour, in the best condition 
to be in the best barrels ; still almost as many mishaps follow the 
baum or yeast or rising, or whatever name you may give the ferment- 
ing agent, and not a few mistakes arise, after all other difficulties 
and uncertainties have been overcome, in the character of the oven 
and the nature of the fire. 

The surface yeast of beer is a powerful alcohol fennent, and by 
its means the sugar contained in meal is thereby resolved into 
alcohol and carbonic acid the efforts of which to escape causes the 
cellular texture or rising with the dough ; and thus gives to the 
toughness that lightness and porousness which the baking retains in 
the bread. If the heat of the oven is insufficient, or the dough too 
watery, the partitions of these cells harden too slowly and on the es- 
cape of the carbonic acid, collapse or " fall," or in other words get 
heavy by slack baking. 

It is unnecessary here to enter into explanations of the various 
modes of different nations of making bread. The 15'rench, English, 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 8^ 

and i&ermans all aim at results adapted to the wants and tastes of 
their customers. The principle is one and the same ; — bread — what- 
ever its color, flavor, shape, or consistency, has to be leavened to 
become light, or what is better to call it, digestible. Raising bread, 
then, is simply a process of adaptation to the digestive powers of the 
stomach. Modern science arid the tendency of man to economise 
labor have marked this subject out for improvement, and many are 
the substitutes for brewer's yeast which have found their way into use. 
Experiments have been made both chemically and mechancially. The 
chemist has combined certain carbonates and acids, as for instance 
carbonate of potassium or saleratus, carbonate of soda, cream of 
tartar, tartaric acid and lactic acid (sour milk) but the universal 
difficulty has been in perfect incorporation, and uniform and relia- 
ble results. Baking powders, self raising flour and a dozen market- 
able substitutes are offered for use, for the chemical action in the 
dough which renders it light and porous all of them used according 
to directions are more or less successes ; but the question that the 
people want solved is to increase the nutritious properties of flour, 
^nd not destroy or impair them, by injudicious additions. The me- 
chanically produced lightness is where such agents as ammonia in 
the form of a carbonate and carbonic acid gas, are used; but all 
these fail except in the hands of persons who understand the sub- 
ject. The general housekeeper wants good bread, and cares little 
who makes it, or what it is made from. This being the case some 
advice is necessary. 

If you use any ofthe substitutes for yeast, study the directions on 
the packet and follow them, for the manufacturer has there given 
you the result of his experience. The important points to be striven 
after are the greatest volume of well raised bread for a given quan- 
tity of flour. The employment of no articles that act injuriously On 
the digestive organs ; and in whatever form or manner the bread 
maybe manipulated, to add to rather than take from its nutritive 
qiialities. .*-«iVyiVf7'/; u uaisooiq 



i9 MINE OP WEALTH ; ANP,,„ 

'ioThere is uo doubt but that what is calted " self-raising flour" 
is a desideratum to a vast number of persons. Time is saved, 
fewer vessels of preparation are needed, less skill is required, and 
altogether labor is much diminished. The summer and winter 
make no difference in the results, and have not to be provided for^,. 
and. what is of more importance than all is, that any one with clean, 
hands and a clear head, may manufacture palatable, nutritious, and. 
wholesome bread, light pastry, or any other of the numerous items 
of the table in which flour is the principal ingredient, out of it ; and 
we are glad to see so much desire in the public mind to have the 
RIGHT article, and among the philanthrophic discoverers of the day 
TO give it. 

But there is yet room for improvement, and we are of opinion 
that before long there will be discovered greater secrets in regard 
to bread making, than any now in use. 

We cannot however overlook the fact that Professor Horsford in 
Harvard University, Cambridge, has recently given the public a 
most interesting little work on the " Theory and art of Bread Ma- 
king without the use of ferment" which cannot fail to be interesting 
to all who desire a fine, palatable and healthy article and among the 
advantages of which he enumerates the following ;— ^^^^^^ ^j. 

'lii^-1. Its saving of the nutritious constituents of the flour from con- 
stittiption in the process of raising the bread. 

" 2. Its restoration of the phosphates, which are in a larger or lesser 
measure removed with the bran in the preparation of the fine quali- 
ties of flour. ^„jj ^^ ^^^ ryj 

< if 3. Its saving of time. While ordinary fermented bread involves 
wa general thing preparation over night, care for several hours be- 
fore baking, and dependence on a variable supply of leaven or yeast, 
the phosphatic bread is prepared from the flour for the oven in a few 

minutes. aiiijjBifo «▼ r tr- r b «Hf^ 

'vitf;4j It secures a uniformly excellent result, while the result with the 
process of fermentation is of doubful issuo, and in household pro- 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. |§ 

duction is more frequently indifferent than good-7--after a failure. 

"5. It furnishes a bread that retains its moisture much longer than 
equally porous fermented bread, and does not mould ^s readily^, a? 
fermented bread does. : v, 

"6. It provides a bread, from the use of which, even by persons of 
delicate digestive apparatus, npn(e of the ills peculiar to fermented 
bread follow. It may be eaten warm with impunity, while with 
most persons it is necessary that fermented bre^ad should lose ,its 
freshness, or become stale, in order to the destruction of some Qbiec* 
tionable qualities, before it may be eaten with safety. ■ ^ i - r, 
' •* 7l 'Itis a method which, by providing agents of known qualifies 
and strength, reduce the measuj^rof;. skill required to a minimum^; 
and secures, with a very small degree of care and moderate expentjir 
ture of time, uniformly excellent bread." 

And the method of preparation and use is thus described :— 

" Self-raising flour is prepared, in which the phosphoric acid, bi- 
carbonate of soda, and common, salt are, present in the required prQj- 
portions. With this flour, it is only necessary thoroughly to knead 
in sufficient water to make a slightly sticky dough, and bake in cov- 
ered tins, in a quick oven. The time required for a single person to 
prepare four loaves of a, pound each, does not exqeed five minutes, 
and the baking takes from thirty to fortyrfive; m.ore^.,;i ,,.,,.;;...? w,.,, 

'f The acid is prepared by itselfj and may be mixed with the flour 
and bicarbonate of soda at the same time; the equivalent quan- 
tities having been put up in separate parcels, ^n^ W-^^ thena 
the mieasure for each. , ,, . 

\.!"iLastly^ the dry acid and dry bicarbonate of soda, mixed ,j^Q 
equivalent quantities, may be added to the flour directly. This is 
the most, convenient form for household use. The method applied 
to making a quart of flour into one loaf of bread for family use is as 
follows: — n ,,;.. 

"1. Provide a quick oven. .[This reqiaires a temperature pj^ 
from 350 to 450 degrees Fahr.] 



42 MINE OF WEALTH, AND 

"2. Stir a measure [the acid measure should contain 140 grains 
and the soda measure 92 grains, for one pound of flour,] each of acid 
and soda into a quart of sifted dry flour, to which a teaspoonful 
of salt has been added. Mix intimately with the hands. Then add 
from time to time cold water from a pint cup, stirring and kneading 
meanwhile, until just a pint of water has been most thoroughly in- 
corporated with the flour. •icf 
'^'^ '" S. ' Shape the mass of dough into a loaf, place it in a deep tin 
bake-pan, with a cover so high as to befdut of the reach of the risen 
dough, and set it immediately in the oven." 

The wide-spread knowledge of the value and importance, there- 
fore, of self-raising flour, has already led to the establishment of mills 
for its preparation in different parts of the country, amongst the 
most celebrated of which are the "Franklin Mills" of Messrs. C. J. 
Fell & Brother, 120 South Front Street, Philadelphia. This flour 
has been submitted by us to the necessary chemical tests, and we 
find it, and the bread produced from it, -not only free from every 
impurity, but composed of the proper nutritive qualities for sustain- 
ing life and warming the body. Under the proper headings will be 
found the formulas for self-raising flour. 

Of the numerous baking powders and other substitutes for yeast, 
now before the public, we find that their general properties are as 
before mentioned. One of these, however, has become so celebrated 
that we have been induced to examine it with considerable attention. 
It is called "^zwrnea," and was discovered by Professor Morris some 
ten years ago, used in his own family for some time, and finally pre- 
sented to the public. Of the commendatory remarks given it by 
the press we cannot do better than give the following from th« 
Public Ledger: — 

" An article called Azumea has been composed by Professor Mor- 
ris. The manufacturer has shown us two loaves of bread, one made 
with the Amrriea^ and the other with yeast. The first is much the 
superior article, kept moist longer, and tasted sweeter and more i^u- 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 43 

tritious than the last. This is said to be the special quality of the 
Azumea. It has the following advantages over yeast or fermented 
bread : — It ean be made and baked in one hour from the time of first 
handling the flour ; it will be moist and pleasant to eat for at least 
four days after baking ; it is easy of digestion ; excellent for per- 
sons suffering from dyspepsia ; retains all the gluten, starch and 
sugar in the flour, and therefore produces 1 lb; 12 oz. of bread fcoim 
1 lb. 4 oz. of flour, while yeast produces only 1 lb.\9 oz. from 1 lb. 
4 oz. of flour; thus obtaining about 27 lbs. more of bread from a 
barrel of flour." 

And the Press says: — 
•" '^*Gf all the scientific accessions to the cwZmar^/ department of dp- 
'^iaiestic economy, we know none of more merit than Azumea, The 
merits of this simple and wholesome preparation have been estab- 
lished by scientific analysis, and practical demonstrations in thou- 
sands of families. The bread produced is easy of digestion, and 
excellent for persons suffering from dyspepsia." yhaa f«>Rt;r;> 

The Monthly Guardian speaking of it has the following : — 
" No other article of diet is, with the people of the United States, 
of such direct importance, as bread. We are more indebted to our 
bread makers — for just about seven-tenths of all our fashionable 
complaints ; as indigestion, headaches, heart-burns, dyspepsia, flatu- 
lency, acidity, delicacy, and debility, than to all other causes cpm- 
bined. All fermented bread, must show similar results. Therefore, 
ail leavened bread is unwholesome ; — in degree, poisonous. A very 
large per cent, of its best life-giving properties are poisoned by im- 
pure carbonic gas — changed by fermentation into noxious fungi. 
What is to be done? Feed on unleavened gutta percha bread? 
No : that does not necessarily follow. The best thing we can do for 
making bread of all kinds of grain, cakes, pastry, pie-crust,^ — what- 
ever we would make light and wholesome, will be to resort to Azu- 
mea, the invention of Prof. Morris, of Philadelphia. By using this 
inaterial, the tedious waiting for the 'batch' to get light enough to 
bake is dispensed with, and good, sweet bread the result." 



"iift MINE OF WEALTH; AND, 

And the. Saturday Evening Post makes the annexed comments : — 
b«t" By all means let us have daily the very best bread that is to be 
made — not that which is leavened and made light by any process 
of fermentation. We have bidden our last good-bye to that kind 
of material, after applying a microscopic test of twelve hundred 
diameters power to a loaf of our nicest, newest yeast baking, and 
finding a large per cent, of good food material metamorphosed into 
fungi— m plain English, "toad stools," by fermentation, and thus 
rendered not only unfit for food, but in so jar absolutely poisonous. 
We are particularly attached to good, pure mushrooms, but always 
detested toad stools, and finding a large per cent, of the very best 
fermented bread we could make presented in this form, we were in 
a dilemma. Perhaps we should have discarded bread entirely, but 
for the timely suggestion of our friend. Dr. G., who simply said, 
'Azumea.^ We had no definite idea what Azumea was, and have not 
yet, beyond the fact that it produces the very best Iread, cakes, pie 
crusts, puddings, and all sorts of pastry without fermer\tation, that 
we have ever seen. Our honest conviction is that the public ought 
to be advised where to get, and how to use, the material, the value 
of which we can fully endorse." 

Another article of recent introduction is called Mrated Bread. 
It has its advocates and opponents, the latter asserting that it is 
not as wholesome as ordinary bread and the former insisting that 
it is superior to any now made. Time alone and its use can settle 
this question. It is produced, as we are informed, by forcing car- 
bonic acid gas (or some other) into the dough whilst being mixed, 
and thus the necessary cellular condition of raising is produced. 
Should this be the case, then it can hardly ever be made available 
for general family use. It may and will suit the baker— but not 
the housekeeper. We have tried the bread and found it palatable, 
—and others can try it and judge for themselves. 

We cannot conclude our remarks upon the subject of BREADj 
without urging upon all who desire a healthy and nutritious article 



GUIDE PO'S TBE MIIiLIOSr. 

to abandon the Use of yeast, as fermentation decomposes the gluten 
andstarcb eOfitained in the jfloui?, disengages much, carbonic acid gas, 
caluses dyspeipsia and Katulenee, and has a tendency, to produce a 
fibrous, woody substance, which although it may allay the appetite, 
is neither calculated to nourish life, not benefit the health. 
■ Biscuit AND Cracker.— The popular mind has long been .dis- 
turbed on the subject of pure bread ini' the fOrm known as Biscuit 
across the Atlantic and Crackers on this side. There is probably no 
grieater temptation to economize materials than in the manufacture 
of these essential articles of food, and no where else in the vast cata- 
logue of productions in which flour is the base, is, there so rnuoh ad- 
mixture of economizing ingredients. But on the other hand ijt naay 
be safely stated, that it is, almost unkno\yn that, at any manufactory 
positively injurious adulterations of wheat flour have been employed. 
The mistake has been the call for cheap articles on the part of con- 
sumers and the effort to make cheapness remuners^tiv^ on the part 
of manufacturers. 

The popular mind has also been deceived in this wise, willing to 
pay for the best when means were sufficient, the best has been asked 
forj and the best sold — but what kind of "best"— why the best the 
shopkeeper has on hand, not the best he might have supplied, if this 
class of customers was mor'e nuriierohs. Bakers like to make what 
they can sell most of— and the storekeeper likes to sell what he dis- 
poses most of—and so it has generally prevailed as a settled popular 
conviction— that Crackers are Crackers — nothing more. Yet there 
is as much difference in the' quality of different makes, as in the 
gijafies; of fllour in the meal raarket^and it is our opinion that the 
best is always the cheapest taking into account its sanitary enecti. 
and riot its simple bulk. The term Biscuit, meajis twice baked, hence 
such articles as are of the rusk character, are nearer the original 
idea; but the Cracker is a different article altogether. It' is so ftiade 
(or ought to be) that it splits in two easily and hence the name Of J 
Cracker — but only the best materials made in the best manner by 
the'^est workmen, turn out Crackers to perfection. 



416 MINK OF WEALTH; AND, 

In iour endeavors to realize our ideal of a perfect article, we have 
tried, we believe, every kind the cities of Philadelphia and New 
York have for sale, and without any disparagement to others, candor 
and truth alike render it obligatory upon us to say, that we have 
found none manufactured superior to those made by Mr. Robert 
Pearce, Ninth street below Dickerson, — the which we have found to 
possess all the requisites and properties so essentially necessary tp 
nutrition and health. ,.,^^1, 

In the meantime, however, and until such further improvements 
are made in every department of "Flour preparations" we must rest 
satisfied and be grateful for what we have ; and the millions of cooks, 
housekeepers, bakers, and all others interested, who will make 
The Mine op Wealth their guide, are referred to the necessary, 
but simple instructions for the use of "Yeast," " Self-Eaising 
Flour," and " Baking Powders," which will be found under their 
appropriate heads. 

iW xif RECEIPTS. __ 

Bread, French. — Mix together three qtiarts of water and one pint 
of milk ; for summer use let it be milk warm, but in winter scalding hot, 
adding a sufficiency of salt. Take one and a half pints of good ale 
yeast, free from bitterness, and lay it in one gallon of water the night 
before. Pour off the yeast into the milk and water and then break in 
rather more than a quarter of a pound of butter. Work it well until 
it is all dissolved ; then beat up two e.gg» in a basin, and stir them in. 
Mix about one and a half pecks of flour with the liquor, and in winter 
make the dough pretty stiff, but in summer more slack ; mix it well, but 
the less it is worked the better. Stir the liquor into the flour as for 
pie-crust, and after the dough is made cover it with a cloth, and let it 
lie to rise, while the oven is heating. When the rolls or loaves have 
lain in a quick oven about a quarter of an hour, turn them on the other 
side for about a quarter of an hour longer. Then take them out and 
chip them with a knife, which will make them look spongy, and of a 
fine yellow, whereas washing takes off this fine color, and renders their 
looks less inviting. 

noi*»9lT9q o* enajoAiC) iuo aiui M^ai^ow is9ft9di 



GUIDE FOR^ THE MILLION 



' Bread, Family. — Boil five pounds' of the flake of bran in four 

gallons of water, until the water is reduced to three and a half gallons, 
then strain it and knead in fifty-six pounds of flour, adding salt and 
yeast as for bread. A quarter of an ounce of carbonate of magnesia; 
(a perfectly innocent article) added to every four pounds of flour ina' 
terially improves the quality of the bread, even when made' fiJom the 
worst new second flour. i^ ! 

Bread, liCaTened. — Take about two pounds of dough of th^ 
last making which has been%aised by barm ; keep it in a wooden vessel, 
(jovered with flour. When sufficiently sour it will become leavened. 
Work this quantity with warm water into a peck of flour. Cover the 
dough close with a cloth, or flannel, and keep it in a warm place ; mix 
it next morning with two or three bushels of flour, mixed up with warm; 
water and a little salt. When the dough is thoroughly made, cover it 
as before. As soon as it rises well, knead it into loaves. Observe in 
this process, that the more leitven is put to the flour, the lighter the 
loaves will be, and the fresher the leaven, the less sour it will taste. 

Bread, ExtemporairaeoMs and "Wholesome.— Take eight 
pounds of flour and divide into two parts ; mix one part, four pounds, in 
water in which two ounces of bicarbonate of soda has been dissolved, 
and the other part with, water to which one ounce of muriatic acid has 
been added. Knead both-paiets well, but separately until perfectly 
kneaded, then work both together thoroughly as rapidly as possible, 
make into such sized loaves as may be required and bake immediately. 

Bread or BisCMlf.— (Self-Raising Flour).— Take in the propor- 
tion of one quart of milk or cold water to three pounds of flour— mix 
as little as possible— just enough to wet through and form a slack dough. 
Imnaediately bake in a deep pan, about half full, in an oven well 
heated, to be ready when you commence mixing. If a shallow pan be 
used, cover it, but not so as to press on the dough and injure its rising. 
Thus iprotectiag the; bread from being burned or crust-bound which 
would deter its full expansion. Use no salt. Weigh the flour, and 
measure the water to secure accuracy, which is very important. 

^^Floor FaMdm^.— A superior pudding can be made by simply 
mixing Self-Raising Flour and water together, boiling it in a cloth, or 
Steaming it, leaving it room to expand, and using a little sauce made 
from, melted butter and sugar. 

A^USnea Bread.— The Azumea makes the ' finest wheat bread 
possible ; it is made in the simplest manner, as follows :— Get one quart, 
equal to one and a quarter of a pound of flour; mix into it, quite dry, 



^ MINE OF WEALTH ; AND, 

tl^reCj ordinary-sized teaapdonsful of Azumea ; add cold water, with a 
l^tle salt dissolved in lit, sufficient to make a dough as soft as can be 
conveniently handled, which is generally a little less than one pint 
of watQE to one quart of flour ; do not knead it, shape it very lightly 
and immediately hake in a quick oven, which must be quite hot before 
you begin to mix. It has the following advantages over yeast or fer- 
mented bread : — It can be made and baked in one hour from the time 
of first handling the flour; it vyill be moist and pleasant to eat for at 
least four days after baking ; it is easy ofj-fiigestion ; excellent for per- 
sons sufl"ering from dispepsia ; retains all the gluten, starch and sugar 
contained in the flour, and therefore produces one pound and twelve 
ounces, of bread from one pound and four ounces, of flour, whilst yeast 
produces only one pound and nine ounces, of bread from one pound 
and four ounces, of flour ; thus obtaining about twenty-seven pounds 
more of bread from a barrel of flour, which, with the saving of yeast, 
will about balance the cost of the Azuniea. It 

AaEumea Corn Bread. — It makes delightful Egg Bread with' 
white corn meal. Beat the eggs ; put in old or new mjlk — even if it is 
not perfectly sweet — and mix the meal with the Azumea well ; dissolve 
the salt in a little water ; and, after stirring all well together, grease 
your baker or 'pan, and bake with a moderately quick fire. When done, 
add butter, and you cannot wish for a greater treat. - d 

Azumea Hroivn Bread. — One quart of yellow corn meal, one 
pint of flour, three tablespoonsful of Azumea, all sifted together ; add 
one gill of molasses, two beaten eggs, make a thin paste with miJk, 
and bake slowly. 

Azuniea Biiscuit. — One quart of flour, three teaspoonsful 
of Azumea, one heaping tablespoonful of butter or lard ; rub the short- 
ening into the flour, add the Azumea and mix well ; dissolve a litle salt 
in enough cold water or sweet milk (a coffee cupful is about the quantity) 
to make a dough as soft as can be conviently handled; flour the hands 
and make into smooth round balls, or roll out and cut; place in a 
greased pan, and immediately bake. 

Azumea Roll$$. — Throe teaspoonsful of Azumea to one quart 
of flour; mix thoroughly by passing two or three times through a sieve; 
rub in a piece of butter half the size of an egg, with salt as usual, and 
make the paste with cold milk or water— milk is best — barely stiff 
enough to permit rolling out ; do not knead the dough ; cut in any de- 
sired form ; place immediately in a hot ov,en, and bake quickly. 

'li'oioi rfffl ; nooft ^o brtooq uSo T^^oop « biw mo o* i«0p9 



!»,f^o!> Off feWvo'fq— ybcrf hfflfoa a ni ^roa :'^- r:.-;;'' 

f/rnjtjiMHtiwoH .8noiit«.taoqmi xij5n'>? Jj-iioBonad sit 

.IJ «dJ aaa«»a.i^jy,^^.Sr E R III. ' "■ 

Cookery in its variozts Departments. — Boiling, Baking, Boasting, 
m orli ,i&t ^y^rying, and Grilling. « aguaeiL 

,^ r^MAGENDiE the great Chemist once made some experiments on 
geese — His object was to find out what may be called the carbon 
doctrine of aliment. It is said that every thing eaten can, with the 
exception of salt be turned into charcoal— but this has not precision 
of statement enough to be perfectly intelligible — we prefer to say 
that Carbon being the one solid of the four organic elements, the 
others may be driven off by heat leaving the carbon behind in the 
form of charcoal. And here we have a valuable hint in cookery. — 
Persons cannot be efl&cient cooks without a knowledge of the laws 
by which food is carbonized by Caloric. Magendie fed some geese 
on gum only, and they all died on the 16th day. others on starch 
and they all died on the 24th day, again othersj, on boiled albumen 
(the whites of eggs) and they died on the 46th day — again he fed 
others on all three articles together and they lived and throve and 
fattened. By this he demonstrated the necessity of a variety of food^ 
^ that every tissue may have a due supply of its proper components 
n(^^Q must vary our food as much as possible in order to supply the 
waste of every part of the system — but there are two pre-requisites 
to be considered, the one is the selection of proper articles of food, 
and the other is in their proper preparation for the table.. Things 
must be right from the beginning, or they will be wrong in 
the end, is an old but sound axiom. Food requires to ba judiciously 



50 MINE OP WEALTH ; AIITD, 

chosen, judiciously prepared, and judiciously eaten. When this 
trinitarian duty is performed, the result is the very acm^ of human 
desire — a sound mind in a sound body — provided no constitutional 
disqualification chronically exist. The products of the " land we live 
in " are invariably more beneficial than importations. Howunnatural 
it would be to a visitor of the icy zones, to crave the highly sea- 
soned articles of the tropics — or he who witnesses the thin spare 
character of the inhabitants of the warmer latitudes, to fancy they 
only needed fat. Yet such a theory would only end practically in 
disease and death. The Laplander must have fat, the West Indian 
his cayenne. Why ? because it is a law of Nature's Harmony to 
live off the land we live in. But we must not wander from the 
subject matter in hand, and therefore return from our digression. 

" To keep the pot boiling " is a saying that has extended itself into 
every department of life — it is almost a synonyme for perse- 
verance — but be this as it may, it is quite certain that when by 
proper attention to the cleanliness and proper draught of the cook- 
stove, the pot boils, it must be perseveringly kept boiling until the 
contents are cooked. 

Some cooks, or rather some miserable apologies for cooks, place 
the dinner on the fire and leave it to take care of itself, and then 
when dinner time arrives, turn out of the pot probably as tough a 
piece of meat as ever a poor butcher was blamed for supplying, and 
never think that such " pot-luck " is an unworthy waste of the 
money expended in market, for the fault always lies with the cook, 
not the meat. There is probably not a piece of sound meat sold in 
any market in the world, that may not be by judicious boiling ren- 
dered tender, palatable and digestible — but if cooks trifle with or 
neglect to keep " the pot boiling," in harmony with the conditions 
Avith the joint and the purpose in view, the most succulent flesh 
\will be spoiled. 

If I want soup, I cannot get it if I do hot boil the meat that 
•fcakes it, as slowly as a boil can be kept up — for the reason thfit 



GUIDE FOB THE MILLION. 61 

tile virtue of the meat is wanted as an extract, and a fierce fire and 
rapid boiling is a sure means of retaining all the meat contains 
within itself. It may "Be well here to remark that when a joint is 
wanted to be tender a,nd juicy, it should be at first, for the shortest 
possible time quickly boiled, so as to set the fibrine of the outside 
of the meat and then boil slowly for the rest of the time until 
done. 

The commonly received idea, that what goes under the denomina- 
tion of *' good plain living" — ^that is, joints of meat, roast or boiled — 
is best adapted to all constitutions, has been proved to be a fallacy. 
Many persons can bear testimony to the truth of Dr. Kitchener's 
remark, that " elaborate culinary processes are frequently necessary 
in order to prepare food for the digestive organs." It may be truly 
said that many persons ruin their health by over indulgence in food 
rendered indigestible by being badly cooked. 

It is our intention to endeavor to correct the prejudice in favor 
of a family joint — by showing that it is not only very often impro- 
perly cooked, but* that the same quantity of meat, if dressed in dif- 
ferent ways, still retaining a certain degree of simplicity, will be 
more pleasant to the palate, more healthful, and quite as econonii- 
cal, if brought to the table, as two or three instead of one. 

'In French cookery, those substances which are not intended to be 
broiled or roasted, are usually stewed for several hours at a temper- 
ature below the boiling point ] by which means the' most refractory 
articles, whether of animal or vegetable origin, are more or less'i^e- 
duced to a state of pulp, and admirably adapted for the further 
action of the stomach. In the common cookery of this country, on 
the contrary, articles are usually put at once into a large quantity 
oif water, and submitted, without care or attention, to the boiiiiag 
temperature ; the consequence of which is, that mdst anim:al sub- 
stances, when taken out, are harder and more iMigestible than in 
'ithe natural state.' ' '"^^^" '" »« ^'-^-^ .f^^^ '^^^ .iMiaih B»'n>lS<!o-lW 



62 MINE OF WEALTH; AND, 

It appears from Dr. Beaumont's Tables that the following arti- 
cles are digested in the times indicated : — 

H. M. 

Rice, boiled soft 10 

Apples, sweet and ripe ------ 130 

Sago, boiled - - 1 45 

Tapioca, Barley, stale Bread, Cabbage with Vinegar, raw, 

boiled Milk and Bread, and Bread and Milk, cold 2 

Potatoes, roasted, and Parsnips, boiled - - - 2 35 

Baked Custard 2 45 

Apple Dumpling 30 

Bread, Com, baked, and Carrots, boiled - - - 3 15 

Potatoes and Turnips, boiled ; Butter and Cheese - 3 30 

Tripe and Pigs' Feet 10 

Venison -. 135 

Oysters, undressed, and Eggs, raw . . - 2 3 

Turkey and Goose 2 30 

Eggs, soft boiled ; Beef and Mutton, roasted, or broiled 2 

Boiled Pork, stewed Oysters, Eggs, hard boiled or fried 3 30 

Domestic Fowls 4 

Wild Fowls ; Pork, salted and boiled ; Suet - - 4 30 

Veal, roasted ; Pork, and salted Beef . - - 5 30 

"When the powers of the stomach are weak, a hard and crude diet 
is sure to produce discomfort by promoting acidity ; while the very 
game articles when divided, and well cooked upon French princi- 
plea, or rather the principles of common sense, can be taken with 
impunity, and easily digested. 

There are only a few persons — with the exception, perhaps, 
o£ those who take violent exercise, or work hard in the open air — 
who can dine heartily upon solid food without suffering from its 
effects ; yet in order to escape indigestion, plain roast or boiled meat 
should be very sparingly consumed. 

The foundation of all good cookery consists in preparing the meat 
so as to render it tender in substance, without extracting from it 
those juices which constitute its true flavor ; in doing which, the 
main point in the art of making those soups, sauces, and made 
dishes of every sort, which should form so large a portion of every 
well-ordered dinner, as well, also, as in cooking many of the plain 
family joints — is boiling, or rather stewing, which ought always to 



GUIDE FOB THE MILLION. 53 

be performed over a slow fire. There is, in fact, no error so com- 
mon among American cooks as that of boiling meat over a strong 
fire, which renders large joints hard and partly tasteless ; while, 
if simmered during nearly double the time, with less than half *the 
quantity of fuel and water, and never allowed to "boil up," the 
meat, without being too much done, will be found both pliant to 
the tooth and savory to the palate. 

For instance. The most common and almost universal dish 
throughout France, is a large piece of plainly-boiled fresh beef, 
from which the soup — or ^^jpotage" as it is there called — h^s been 
partly made, and which is separately served up as " boutlU" accom- 
panied by strong gravy and minced vegetables, or stewed cabbage. 
Now this as constantly dressed in the French mode, is very deli- 
cate both in fibre and flavor ; while, in the American manner 
of boiling it, it is almost always hard and insipid. The resison 
of which, as explained by Car^me, is this : — " The meat, instead 
of being put down to boil, as in the American and English method, is 
in France put in the pot with the usual quantity of cold water, and 
placed at the corner of the fireplace, where, slowly becoming hot, 
the heat gradually swells the muscular fibres of the beef, dissolving 
the gelatinous substances therein contained, and disengaging that 
portion which chemists term ' osma2ome,' and which imparts savor 
to the flesh — thus both rendering the meat tender and palatable, 
and the broth relishing and nutritive; whilst, on the contrary, 
if the pot be inconsiderately put upon too quick a fire, the boiling is 
precipitated, the fibre coagulates and hardens, the osmazome is hin- 
dered from disengaging itself, and thus nothing is obtained but a 
piece of tough meat, and a broth without taste or succulence." 

Meat loses, by cooking, from one-fifth to one-third of its whole 
weight. More is lost by roasting than by boiling meat. In calcu- 
lating for a -family, one pound per day for each individual is a gen- 
eral allowance for dinner. 



64 MINB OF WEALTH; AND, 

Meat that is not to be cut till cold must be well done, particularly 
in summer. 

The use of skewers in joints should be avoided as much as possi- 
ble, as they let out the gravy ; twine will answer better. 

In every branch of cookery much must be left to the discretion 
of the cook and knowledge of the family's taste ; particularly in 
force-meats and seasonings. 

Suet. — When sirloins of beef, or loins of veal or mutton^ are 
brought in, part of the suet may be cut off for puddings, or to cla- 
rify, dhopped fine and mixed with flour, if tied down in a jar, it 
will keep ten days or a fortnight. If there be more suet than will 
be used while fresh, throw it into pickle, made in the proporticm 
of one-quarter pound of salt to a quart of cold water, and it will be 
as good afterwards for any use, when soaked a little. 

To remove the taint of meat, wash it several times in cold water ; 
then put it into plenty of cold water, into which throw several 
pieces of red-hot charcoal. If you fear meat will not keep till the 
time it is wanted, par-roast or par-boil it, that is partly cook it ; it 
will then" keep two days longer, when it may be dressed as usual^ 
but in rather less time. 

When meat is frozen, it should be brought into the kitchen and 
laid at some distance from the fire, early in the morning; or soak 
the meat in cold water two or three hours before it is used : put- 
ting it near the fire, or into warm water, till thawed, should ba 
avoided. ■■-'] 

Meats become tenderer and more digestible, as weH as better 
flavoured, by hanging. In summer, two days is enough for lamb 
and veal, and from three to four for beef and mutton. In cold 
weather, the latter may be kept for double that time. 

Legs and shoulders should be hung knuckle downwards. 

An effectual way of excluding the fly is by using a wire meat- 
safe, or by covering the joints with a long loose gauze or some thin 
cloth, and hanging them from the ceiling of an airy room. Pep- 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 55 

per and ginger should be sprinkled on the parts likely to be washed 
off before the joint is put to the fire. 

A larder should always be placed on the north side of the house ; 
the window may be closed with canvass, but wire is preferable. 
There should be a thorough draft of air through the room. 
Articles that are likely to spoil should not be kept in or laid 
upon wood. 

Warm, moist weather is the worst for keeping meat ; the south 
wind is very unfavourable, and lightning very destructive ; so that 
after their occurrence meat should be especially examined. 

Boiling, or cooking with heated water, is an important branch 
of the kitchen duties. Some articles, as potatoes, should be above the 
water in a steamer ; some should be in deep water, as cabbage ; 
some should be in shallow water, as beans ; some in a " spider " as 
gmoked fish ; some in nets within the water, as spinach ; some in 
bags and basins, as puddings ; some in small cloths as dumplings, 
and so on, making it necessary for the cook to have her wits about 
her and see that her fuel, fire, wood and furniture are all proper to 
use and properly used. 

It is the most simple of all processes of cooking. Eegularity 
and attention to time are the main secrets. 

Much less heat is requisite to keep liquids boiling in copper and 
iron saucepans than in those made of tin. 

There is frequently a great waste of fuel in cooking, which arises 
from making liquids boil fast, when they only require to be kept 
slowly boiling. Count Eumford (the inventor of the Eumford 
stove), states, that more than half the fuel used in kitchens is wasted 
in the above manner. 

It is a sad waste to put fuel under a boiling pot. There is a de- 
gree of heat in water called the boiling-point ; and all the coals or 
wood in the world cannot make water hotter in an open vessel ; it 
can but boil. By this waste, the cook not only loses time, but 
spoils the cookery. 



56 MINE OP WEALTH ; AND, 

The loss by boiling varies, from 6 1-4 to 16 per Cent. The aver- 
age loss on boiling butcher's meat, pork, hams, and bacon, is 12 ; 
and on domestic poultry is 14 3-4. 

The loss per cent, on boiling salt beef is 15 ; on legs of mutton, 
10 ; bams, 12 1-2 ; salt pork, 13 and l-3rd ; knuckles of veal, 8 and 
l-3rd; bacon, 6 1-4; turkeys, 16; chi6kens, 13 1-2. itaii aaioiaiA 

The established rule as regards time, is to allow a quarter of an. 
hour for each pound of meat if the boiling is rapid, and twenty 
minutes if slow : there are exceptions to this ; for instance, ham and 
pork, which require from twenty to twenty-five minutes per pound, 
and bacon nearly half an hour. For solid joints allow fifteen min- 
utes for every pound, and from ten to twenty minutes depend much 
on the strength of the fire, regularity in the boiling, and size of the 
joint. The following table will be useful as an average of the time 
required to boil the various articles : — « ; d«ft bedomt' 

H. M. ,i<(j 
A ham, 20 lbs. weight - - - requires 6 30 
A tongue, (if dry) after soaking - - - 4 
A tongue, out of pickle - - - 2-12 to 3 

A neck of mutton ...--- 1 30 rau 
A chicken 
A large fowl 
A capon 
A pigeon 

Dried or salted meats and fish require soaking in cold water 
before boiling. 

Meat and poultry will lose their flavour and firmness, if left in 
the water after they are done ; as will also fish, which will break 
to pieces. 

The water in which meat, poultry, or fish has been boiled should 
be saved ; this pot-liquor, as it is called, may be made into soup. 

Slow boiling is very important for all meats, to ensure their ten- 
derness ; fast boiling always makes them hard and tough, less 
plump, and of darker color, than when they are boiled gradually. 

Skimming the pot will alone ensure the good color and sweetness 



»oiq"lIa To olrffnia i'mm ? T? 

. \ - 45 

ai^gi sdi ©i£ ,emii joi a o 35 

.... 15 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION,^ 67 

of the meat ; a little cold water and salt will aid in throwing up the 
scum : milk put into the pot does good in few cases only ; and wrap- 
ping in a cloth is unnecessary, if the scum be carefully removed. 

The lid of the saucepan should only be removed for skimming; 
and, before taking off the lid, be careful to blow from it any dust 
or blacks from the fire or chimney. 

The joint should always be covered with water; above this 
quantity, the less water the more savory will be the meat. 

In some few instances, however, it may be necessary to boil the 
articles in a much larger quantity of water ; a quart of water is 
mostly a good proportion to a pound, of meat. 

If meat be put into cold water, it should be heated gradually,* so 
as hot to cause it to boil in less than forty minutes ; if it boil much 
sooner, the meat will shrink and be hardened, and not so freely 
throw up the scum. 

i'our skewers, or plate, inside downwards, should be laid on the 
bottom of the saucepan, especially for large joints and puddings; 
so that they may be equally done, and escape burning or adhering 
to the saucepan. 

When a pot boils remove it nearly off the fire, but let the lid re- 
main on ; a very little heat will then keep up the boiling. 

The time of boiling should be reckoned from the time bubbles 
begin to rise on the surface of the liquid ; as the boiling continues, 
the water will evaporate, and in some cases it may be requisite to 
fill up the saucepan with boiling water. 

Baking of late years has come more into general use from the 
fact that it is found to be a cheap, expeditious, convenient and econo- 
mical way of cooking. The flavor of meats, however, when baked is 
not considered equal to the same when roasted although there are 
many joints that are preferable from being more suitable to baking 
than roasting. Among such may be enumerated legs and loins of 
pork, legs and shoulders of mutton, fillets of veal, &c ; and a baked 
pig if properly basted with butter and otherwise attended to is 



is MINE OF WEALTH; AND, 

fblfy equal to a roast one. The same may be said of ducks and 
geese, and various pieces of beef, especially the buttock. A 
baked buttock of beef should be salted about eight days, then well 
washed and put into a brown earthenware pan (glazed inside) with 
a pint of water, tied over with three or four thicknesses of writing 
paper, and baked about five hours in a lightly heated oven. A 
baked ham is far preferable to a boiled one, not only is it more ten- 
der, but it retains its gravy and has a finer flavor. It should be 
soaked at least one hour in clean water, wiped thourghly dry and 

then covered over with a thin flour paste before being put in the 
oven. 

Roasting is prefered by many and no doubt for many joints it is 
preferable, but it is more tedious, requires more care and attention 
and in this day of cooking stoves and close ranges is not so much 
in general use as heretofore. It has one great advantage and that 
is that a. roasted joint is exempted from a combination of flavors 
such as are attached to a baked one, when several have been 
cooked in the same oven together. 

The success of every branch of cookery, however, depends upon 
the good management of the kitchen fire ; roasting, especially, 
requires a brisk, clear, and steady fire ; if made up close to the bars 
of the grate. 

The spit being wiped clean, the joint to be roasted should be care- 
fully spitted even, and tied tight ; and if it will not turn round well, 
balance skewers, with leaden heads, should be used ; for, if the meat 
be not evenly spitted, it will probably be burned on one side, and 
not done on the other. Avoid running the spit through the prime 
parts of joints. Cradle spits answer best. 

A leg of mutton should never be spitted, as the spit lets out the 
gravy, and leaves an unsightly perforation just as you are cutting 
into the pope's eye. 

Make up the roasting-fire three or four inches longer than the 
joint, else the ends of the meat will not be done. 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. §9 

In stirring the fire, be careful to remove the dripping pan, else 
dust and aghes may fall in. On no account let the fire get dull and 
]ow, as a strong heat is requisite to brown the meat. 

A thin joint requires a brisk fit-e; a large joint, a strong, sound, 
and even fire. - When steam rises from the meat, it is done. 

Large joints should be put at "«, moderate distance from the fire, 
and' gradually brought nearer; else the meat will be overdone half- 
wlay through the joint, and be nearly raw at the bone. 

'-Such meat as is not very fat should have paper placed over it, to 
preven-t it from being scorched. 

Do not sprinkle the meat with salt when first put down, as the 
salt draws out the gravy. 

Old meats i*equire more cooking than young. The longer the 
meat has been killed, the less time it requires to roast it. Very fat 
meat requires more time than usual. 

There are a variety of opinions respecting the washing of meat 
previous to roasting. Many old and experienced cooks declare that 
it destroys the flavor of the meat. Professors of the art, however, 
hold a contrary opinion. We are not disposed, from experience, to 
differ so essentially from them as to advise meat to be roasted with- 
out this operation, but should advise that the meat be not suffered 
to remain too long in the water, unless frost-bitten, and then it 
should soak an hour or two previous to cooking. 

The time necessary for cooking a joint must depend, of course, 
upon the weight of the joint to be roasted ; experience gives fifteen 
minutes to each pound of meat ; where the quantity is very large, 
an extra two or three minutes must be given ; but so much depends 
upon the state of the fire, and the attention directed to the joint 
while cooking, that the judgment must be exercised. Although 
the above calculation may be taken as a general rule, time for any 
drawback which may occur must be considered. 

Baste the meat first with fresh dripping, and then with its own 
fat or dripping ; and within the last hour of roasting, take off the 



60 MINE OP WEALTH; AND, 

paper, and sprinkle the meat with gait and flour, to brown ^and froth 
it; but some cooks dredge the meat with flour earlier, so that it 
may imbibe the gravy, a practice which should be specially avoided. 

The spit should be wiped dry immediately after it is drawn from 
the meat, and washed and scoured every time it is used. 

Perfection in roasting is very difficult, and no .certain rules can 
be given for it, as success depends on many circumstances which 
are continually changing ; the age and size (especially the thick- 
ness) of the pieces, the quality of the coals, the weather, the cur- 
rents of air in the kitchen, the more or less attentions of the cook, 
and the time of serving, are, all to be considered. Hence, epicures 
say of a well-roasted joint, "It is done to a turn." 

Eoast meats should be sent to table the moment they are ready, 
if they are to be eaten in perfection. 

Broiling or Grilling. — Broiling requires a brisk and qlear 
fire, proportioned to the article to be broiled ; for example ; mutton 
chops require a clear rather than a brisk fire, else the fat will be 
wasted before the lean is warmed through ; but for a beef steak, 
the fire can neither be too brisk nor clear, if the gridiron be placed 
at the proper distance. Fish requires a steady fire ; as also does 
under-done meat. 

Much, however, depends on the substance of the article to be 
broiled : if it be thick, it must be placed at a greater distance, at 
first, to warm it through ; if thin, the fire must be brisk, else the 
meat will not be of a good color. 

The gridiron should be wiped clean after it has been used, so that 
the bars may be kept bright on top ; they should be allowed to 
get hot before the article is laid on them, but not too hot, else they 
will burn the meat or fish : the latter especially. To prevent this, 
the bars should be rubbed with fat. 

A charcoal fire is best for broiling. 

To prevent the fat dripping into the fire set the gridiron aslant. 

For turning the broiling article, use tongs, as a fork will let out 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLIOIT. 61 

the gravy. Whon the article is done, it will feel firm if touched 
with the tongs : by no means cut the meat to ascertain if it be done, 
as that will let out the gravy. 

Frying is of all methods the mo^t objectionable, from the food's 
being less digestible when thus prepared, as the fat employed un- 
dergoes chemical changes. Olive oil in this respect is preferable to 
lard or butter. The crackling noise which accompanies the process 
of frying meat in a pan is occasioned by the explosions of steam 
formed in fat, the temperature of which is much above 212 ® . If 
the meat is very juicy it will not fry well, because it becomes sod- 
den before the water is evaporated; and it will notbro-rtrn because 
the temperature is too low to scorch it. To fry fish well the fat 
should be boiling hot (600 ^ ), and the fish well dried in a cloth, 
otherwise, owing to the generation of steam, the temperature will 
fall so low, that it will be boiled in its own steam, and not be 
browned. Meat, or indeed any article, should be frequently turned 
and agitated during frying, to promote the evaporation of the 
watery particles. To make fried things look well, they should be 
done over twice with eggs and stale bread crumbs. 

If eggs be very dear, a little flour and water may be substituted 
for them in preparing fish to fry. 

In frying use a slice to lift the articles in and out of the pan, and 
drain them. ■ ' 

,To make batter for frying ; melt two ounces of butter in a little 
warm water, and pour it upon half-a-pound of flour ; stir it and add 
water enough to form a batter, thick enough to adhere to whatever 
is put into it; but it should run freely: add some salt and the 
beaten whites of two eggs. ; fw 

A small shallow frying-pan, is very useful to fry articles to be 
stewed : this method differs from common frying, as it only requires 
butter enough to keep the article from sticking to the pan and 
burning. 



'$2 MINE OF WEALTH; AND, 

( The fire for frying should be free from smoky coals, sharp, and 
,«ven. Charcoal makes the best frying fire. 

The fat should be carefully drained from all fried articles ; indeed, 
they should be so dry as scarcely to soil a cloth. Fish is best 
drained by wrapping it in soft whited -brown paper, by which it will 
so dry as not to soil the napkin upon which it is served. 

Stewing. — AH articles to be stewed should first be boiled gently, 
then skimmed and set aside in an even heat : on this account, char- 
coal makes the best fire for stewing. 

All stews, or meat dressed a second time, should be only sim- 
mered, as the meat should only be made hot through. 

A stewpan is the most advantageous vessel in which stews, hashes, 
soups, or gravies, can be made ; indeed, for all purposes of boiling, a 
stewpan is preferable to a deep saucepan, as, in the former, .the 
articles are exposed to more even heat than when they are placed 
one upon another in the saucepan, and are likely to be broken in 
stirring. 

The best stewpans are made of copper or iron ; they should be 
kept covered as much as possible, unless you wish to reduce the 
gravy. 

Be careful not to fry in a stewpan ; or, if so, with great care, and 
sufficient butter to save the tinning from melting. 

Most of the directions for making soups and gravies apply also 
to this branch of cookery. , , 

Larding, — Have ready larding-pius of different sizes, according 

to the article to be done , cut slices of bacon into bits of a proper 

length, quite smooth, and put on a larding-needle to suit it, with 

which pierce the skin and a very little of the meat, leaving the 

©(bacon in, and the two ends of equal length outwards. Lard in rows' 

the size you think fit. 
, The same effect with regard to flavor, may be produced by raising 
the skin and laying a slice of fat bacon beneath it. 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLIOlff. 08 

DoUBiNG consists in passing bacon through meat, while larding is 
on the surface only. 

Braising. — Put the meat you would braise into a stewpan, and 
cover it with thick slices of fat bacon : then lay round it six or eight 
onions, a faggot of sweet herbs, some celery, and, if to be brown, 
some thick slices of carrots, and trimmings of any fresh meat-bones 
you have, with a pint and a half of water, or the same quantity 
of stock, according to what the meat is, and add seasoning. Cover 
the pan close, and set it over a slow Stove ; it will require two or 
three hours as its size and quality may direct. Then strain the 
gravy ; keep the meat quite hot : take the fat off by plunging the 
basin into cold water, which will cause the fat to coagulate ; and 
boil it as quickly as you can till it thickens. If, however you wish 
the gravy to adhere to the meat, it must be still further thickened ; 
then with a brush kept for the purpose do over the meat,, and if that 
has been larded, put it into the oven for a few minutes. This is 
called " glazing," and is much in use for made-dishes. 

Glazing is done by brushing melted glaze or jelly over the 
article, and letting it cool ; in some cases it is requisite to cover the 
articles with two or three coats of glaze, allowing each to cool as it 
is laid on. The glaze should be of a clear yellow brow%r^Bdj^ 
thick as good treacle. ,v^ ' . , 

If you have not the glaze ready, sift a little sugar over the article 
to be glazed, and finish in the oven, with a salamander, or red hot 
shovel. 

Boning. — In disengaging the flesh from the bones, work the knife 
always close to the bone, and take care not to pierce the outer skin. 
Minute directions are given in other parts of the work for boning 
fowls, &c. 

Blanching makes the article plump and white, and consists in 
putting it into cold water over the fire, allowing it to boil up, and 
then plunging it into cold water, where the article should remain 
until cold. 



Hi* MINB OP WEALTH; AlfD, 



n. 



Danger from Copper Saucepans. — The precise dangefTrbm the 
use of copper saucepans, or stewpaos, imperfectly tinned, is' far from 
rightly understbod. It appears that the acid contained in stews and 
other made dishes, as lemon-juice, though it does not dissolve copper, 
by being merely boiled in it a few minutes, nevertheless, if allowed 
to cool and stand in it for some time, will acquire poisonous matter, 
as verdigris, in the form of a green band, or crust, inside the vessel. 
It has likewise been proved that weak solutions of common salt, 
such as are daily made by adding a little salt to boiling vegetables, 
^eat, or fish, act powerfully on copper vessels, although strong solu- 
tions, or brine would not affect them. 

^ It is, however, in vain to hope that cooks will attend to the nice 

distinctions by which copper stewpans may be rendered safe ; the 

general advice given by prudent physicians is, therefore, against 

^their use at all. ''^ •■ •- ■•-'"'> ^ ■ -'v' -' — ^ 

^ The kettles in #^lch'llib Soups are made should be well tfniifed, 

and kept particularly clean, by being washed in hot water and 

^rubbed dry before they are put away. If they are not kept well 

'tinned, the taste as well as the color of the soup will be liable to be 

'affected by the iron; and if the soup-k;ettle be made of copper, and 

^iSie tinning not quite perfect, everything cooked in it will be more 

or less poisonous, as everything which is sweet, salt, or sour, 

' extracts verdigris from copper. ^'^^"^ os«I:!5'9iTt .t^ 



How to Choose Meats. 

"^ Beep.— True well-fed beef may be known by the texture and 

color ; the lean will exhibit an open grain of deep coral red, and 

•'the fat will appear of a healthy oily smoothness, rather inclining to 

^'white than yellow ; the suet firm and white. Yellow fat is a test 

of inferior quality. Heifer beef is but little inferior to ox beef; 

ihe lean is of a closer grain, the red paler, and the fat whiter. Cow 



GUIDE FOB THE MILLIOlf. fl 

beef may be detected by the same signs, save that the elder the 
beast, the texture of the meat will appear closef, aind ihe flesh 
coarser to the sight, as well as harder to the touch. 

The round of beef is, in large families, one of the most profitaWe 
parts : it is usually boiled, and, like most of the boiling parts 
of beef, is generally sold in our markets at lees per pound thati the 
roasting joints. ' « rfliw obucn \v»t^ 

The brisket is also less in price than the roasting parts; 'it- is liot 
so economical a part as the round, having more bone to be Weighed 
with it, and more fat. Where there are children, very fat joints are 
not desirable, being often disagreeable to them,^ and sometimes pre- 
judicial, especially if they have a dislike'tef^it.Y' This joint siho 
requires more cooking than many others ; that is to say, it requires 
a double allowance of time to be given for boiling it : it will, when 
served, be hard and scarcely digestible if no more time be allowed 
to boil it than that which is sufficient for other joints and meats. 
When stewed it is excellent ; and when cooked fresh, (i. e; utisalted,) 
aa eSECellent stock for soup may be extracted from it, and yet the 
meat will serve as well for dinner. ' ' -' ' ■ ' ' V'^^' '^^'* 

The edgebone, or aitchbone, is not'eoiisi^ef^tf tB bek'ffery'etjdil- 
omical joint, the bone being large in proportion to the meat ; but 
the greater part of it, at least, is as good as that of any prime pairf^' 
It sells for less per pound than roasting joints. l<jliqoowq x'sv 

The rump is the part of which our butchers make g;re^t pi'ofid/ 
by selling it in the form of steaks. In the country, as there is nW 
an equal demand for steaks, the whole of it may be purchased as 
a joint, and at the price of other prime parts. It may be turned to 
good account in producing many excellent dishes. If salted, it is 
simply boiled ; if used unsalted, it is usually stewed. ; : ' • B '^ 

The veiny piece is sold at a low price per pound'f but tf^ 'nufig^ 
for a day or two, it is very good and very profitable. Where there 
are a number of servants and children to have an early dinner, this 
part of beef will be found desirable. ' ''' c^^^Si'^^ ^ 



B$ MINE OF WEALTH; AND, 

: From the leg and shin excellent stock for soup may be drawn ; 
afpd if not reduced too much, the meat taken frojnthe bones may 
be served as a stew with vegetables ; or it may be seasoned, 
pounded with butter, and potted ; or chopped very fine, and seasoned 
with herbs, and bound together by egg and bread crumbs ; it may 
be fried in balls, or in the form of large eggs, and served with a 
gravy made with a few spoonsful of the soup, aiaioi yt^. 

«QPf,half an ox cheek excellent soup may be made; the meat, 
when taken from the bones, may be served as a stew. v.u ..:;'D ck 
Roasting parts of beef are the sirloin and the ribs, and these bfeawr 
in all places the highest price. The most profitable of these twor 
joints at a family table is the ribs. The bones, if removed from 
the beef before it is roasted, will assist in forming the basis of a 
soup. When boned, the meat of the ribs is often rolled up, tied 
with strings, and roasted : and this is the best way of using it, as 
it enables the carver to distribute equally the, upper part of meat 
with the.more.skinny and fatter parts at the lower end of the bones. 

q,Veal. — When you oKserve the kidney well surrounded with fat, 
you may be sure the meat is of a good quality. The whitest is not 
the best veal; but the flesh of the bull-calf is of a brighter color 
than that of the cow-calf The fillet of the latter is generally pre- 
ferred, on account of the udder. There is a vein in the shoulder 
very perceptible; and its color indicates the freshness of the meat; 
if a bright blue or red, it is recently killed ; if any green or yellow 
^ots are visible, it is stale. The suet will be flabby, and the kidney 
will smell. 

The leg of veal from whi-ch the fillet is taken, the shoulder, the 
i^eck, and Ipin, are all in turn serviceable in a family. When the 
leg is purchased altogether, without dividing the knuckle from it, 
the butcher usually considerably remits the price. 

^JilUTTpN. — The best is of a fine grain, a bright color, the fat firm 
3y|jj|W.|iite. It is better for being fuU-,gro\vn. The meat of the ewe 
is not so bright, Avhile the grain is closer. The ram mutton may 



GtriDB FOR THE MILLION. ^ 

be known by the redness of the flesh and the sponginess of the fat. 

The leg and haunch of mutton, are the most profitable joints, 
although in price higher than the shoulder or neck. But these last 
joints are sold at a less price per pound than others. ;, i;(> tfn 

The loin and saddle (the two loins not separated) are expensive 
joints, not in price only, but in the great proportion of fat and bone 
belonging to them. They are considered to be prime parts. 

Lamb,— -This meat will not keep long after it is killed. The large 
vein in the neck is blueish in color when the fore-quarter is fresh, 
green when becoming stale. In the hind quarter, if not recently 
killed, the fat of the kidney will have a, slight smell, and the knuckle 
will have lost its firmness. 

The hind quarter of lamb is more advantageous in use than the 
fore, but can scarcely be regarded as an ■economical part. In hot 
weather, and in a small family, the joints which the quarters form, 
wh<en divided, are of so'conveni'ent a sia^as to render _ them muek' 
in request. ^iiU t* ^i flstfw lamg beffj© ore 

Pork. — In young pork the lean when pintjlied will break; ffic 
tbickn«ess arnJ toughness of the rind shows it to be old. In fresh'^ 
pork the flesk is firm, smooth, a clear color, and the fat set When 
stale it looks clammy aiad flabby. Measly pork may be detected by8 
the keraaels in the fat ; it should not be eaten. Dairy-fed pork bea^ffi 
the palm over all others, .bliw &di aadi tey 

Bacon should have a thin rind, and the fat 'should be firm and 
tinged red, by the curing;, the flesh should be of clear red, without* 
intermixture of yellow, and it should firmly adhere to the bone^' 
Tojudgeof the state of a ham, plunge a laiife into it to the bone; opi 
drawing it back, if particles of meat adhere to i^^r'qr if the^smelJ^iis 
disagreeable, the curing has not been effectual, arid the hiam is ri<!)M 
good; it ehould, in such a state, be immediately cooked. In buying 
a ham, a short thick one is to be preferred to one long and thin.-r- 
There are such a variety of qualities that to enuemrate'' itn wo^^WM 
be ton tedious. bolM gooi oo# 



0ti Mlf^l^ or WEAr/i'H ; AWD, 

VbnisON'. — When good, the fat is clear, bright, and of comsidef- 
able thickness. To know when it is necessary to cook it, a knife 
must be plunged into the haonch ; and from the smell the cook mnst 
determine on dressing or keeping it. 

Poultry.— Tn choosing poultry, the age of the bird is the chief 
point to be attended to. 

An old turkey has rough and reddish legs; a young oiie .smooth 
and black. Fresh killed, the eyes are full and clear, and the ffet 
moist. When it has been kepi too long, the parts about the vent btr- 
gin to wear a greenish discoloured appearance. 

CJOMMON DOMESTIC FOWLS, when young, have the legs and comb? 
smooth ; when old, they are rough, and on the breast long iiairs are 
found instead of feathers. Fowls and chickens should be plnrnp on 
the breast, fat on the back, and white legged. 

G-KESE. — The bills and feet red wlicn old, yellow when youn^ 
Fresh killed, the feet are pliable^ stiff when too long kept. Geese 
are called green when they are only two or three months' old. 

oDuCKS. — Choose tbem with supple feet and hard plump breasts. 
Tame ducks have yellow feet, wild ones red. 

Pigeons are very indiiferent food when they are too long kept- 
Suppleness of the feet show tbero to be young ; the state of the flesh 
is flaccid when they are getting bad from keeping. Tame pigeons 
are larger than the wild. '^'- 

Babbits when old, have the haunches thick, the ears dry aiid 
tough, and the claws blunt and ragged. A young rabbit has claws 
smooth and sharp, ears that easily tear, and a narrow cleft in the 
lip. I ' ' <>J iieiti 

Pabtridoes when young, have yellow legs and dark colored 
bills. Old partridges are very indifferent eating. 

Woodcocks and Snipes, when old, have the feet thick and hard; 
when these are soft and tender, they are both young amd fresh 
killed. When their bills become moist, and their throats muddy, 
they have been too long killed. 



QtJrDE FOR 'fHE MILLION. ^ 

>VMr/i) • ; vein oJfllq jrfea »dt .ea^giiS. Si ned^ir ni&ii9(»£ oT .^(;lIoow 

' _, „'. V''^*-^ ^'^.' •<^'^<^'<--' ^f'^ f^'^'^eniiw ii^cnii.idi ,Pim-\h'ii. i>.fTji»ofl 
That Fish is an important agerit to the comfort of thinking mmas 

may be readily understood by only a slight examination of what 
fish (particularly salt water fish) does for us— Xt supplies us with 
nerve matter. We will instance phosphorus. An idiot has a feain 
of which about one per cent of phosphorus is present, a healthy 
active brain about two per cent, a maniac's brain nearly three. We 
may perhaps here remark without offence that poisonous ingredients 
such as alcohol, taken immoderately, are apt to destroy the brain 
power of rejecting (phosphorus for instance) a superfluity of nourish- 
ment, and to this cause may be mainly attributed the great danger 
in what is called " drinking" and traced incipient maniacism. 

Fish supplies our system with brain power, and makes good the 

^15. ...r.Kn Wit, aj o.jfii miiUj! : . • , 

^'MtofM^^ffiSlipUltt^loys." - c. ... a.u 

We advise that Fish be made an article of diet twicfe^'^ W^? -''^ 
Before dressing fish of any kind, great care should be takeii that 
it is well washed and cleansed, but be cautious not to wash it too 
much, a^ the flavor is much diminished by too much water. Wnfeii 
boiling fish, put a little salt and a little vinegar into the water to 
give it firmess. Be careful to let the fish be well done, but not to 
let it break. When very fresh, cod and whiting are very inueh 
improved by keeping a day, and rubbing a little salt dowii the 
back bone. ' Fresh-water fish often have a muddy smell and tasle 
which is got rid of by soaking it. After it has been thoroughly 
c\^ansed in strong salt and water, if the fish is not too large|' scald 
it m the same ; then dry and dress it. 

Put the fish in cold water, and let it boil very gently, or the' otii- 
side will break before the inside is warm. . Piit all crimped fish 
into boiling water, and when it boils up some cold water should "be 
put into it,, to check it and keep it simmering. All fish should "be 
taken out of the water the instant it is done, or it will becom'e 



9§B MIKE OB WEALTH ; AND, 

"woolly. To ascertain when it is done, the fish plate may be drawn 
np, and, if done, the meat will leave the bone. To keep it hot, and 
tio prevent it losing its color, the fish plate should be placed across 
the fish kettle, and a clean cloth put over the fish. 

Small fish may be nicely fried plain, or done with egg and bread 
crumbs, and then fried. On the dish on which the fish is to be 
served should be placed a damask napkin, folded, and upon this 
put the fish, with the roe and liver ; then garnish the dish with 
horse-radish, parsley and lemon. 

To broil or fry fish nicely, after it is well washed, it should be 
put in a cloth, and when dry, wetted with egg and bread crumbs. 
It will be much improved by being wetted with egg and crumbs a 
a^ond time. Then have your pan ready with plenty of boilling 
dripping or lard, put your fish into it and let it fry rather quickly 
till it is of a nice brown and appears done. If it is done before be- 
ing nicely browned, it should be taken from the pan, and placed on 
a sieve before the fire to drain and brown. If wanted very nice, 
put a sheet of cap paper to receive the fish. Should you fry your 
fish in oil, it obtains a much finer color than when done in lard or 
dripping. Never use butter, as it makes the fish a bad color. Gar- 
nish your dish with green or fried parsley. 

In broiling fish, be careful that your gridiron is clean ; place it on 
the fire, and when hot rub it over with suet, to hinder the fish from 
sticking. The fish must be floured and seasoned before broiling. 
It must be broiled over a clear fire only, and great care must be 
taken that it does not burn or become smoky. 

Broiled fish for breakfast should always be skinned, buttered, and 
peppered. , . , , ,..-. 

Fish are boilfed, fried, broiled, baked, stewed, in fact cboked m 
every imaginable fashion ; those named are the chief methods. In 
every kind the greatest attention and cleanliness must be exercised. 
A broken, disfigured, abrased, or ill-cooked dish of fish presented 



GUIDE FOB THE MILLION. ?1 

at'taff^^ is 'quiet sufficient to destroy the taste' for it forever; on 
the contrary, wben neatly done, it heightens the relish which every 
one possesses more or less, and imparts an appetite where one may 
be wanting, while the cook is held in grateful remembrance. 

Among the bivalves Oysters are said to contain the most of thei 
phosphoric principle, and are held in universal estimation. They 
are cooked in a greater variety of ways than any other fish— but 
the leading principle with them is to obtain them fat and in season, 
and then not to forget that a stew must not be a deluge of water ; SP 
fry must not shake off its batter; a roast must not get dried up; 
a steam must not be done with dirty shells ; a fritter must not be all 
batter, and whether stewed, fried, roasted, steamed or frittered, they 
must be served up hot. 

To Choose Fish.— Cod.— The best fish are thick at the neck, very 
red gills, firm white flesh, bright, and blood-shot eyes, and small head. 

Cat Fish.— When large they will be found very coarse and 
strong, consequently the small ones are best. Always cook whilst 

fresh. 

. Eels.— Silver eels are the best; dark skinned and yellow tinged 

are not good; the bright silver-hued belly and thickness of back 
• ,■ . , . , ,. . ' )?^"WdoiIa sdt m 8{ ova a/iiil .woi 
are the guides in their selection. , , ' ., 

FLOUNDERS.-^Thick bodies an4" the 'bellies of a creamy white, 
show them to be good ; a flabby flounder, with a pale blue tinge on the 
belly, should be avoided. 

Halibut.— Should be very firm, the fish a clean white when cut 
into, and with no outward sliminess. 

Herrings.— Very red gill's, blood -shot eyes, bright scales, and 
^he fish stiff, shows them to be good and fresh. 

Mackerel.— Bright eyes, thick bodies, the prismatic colours very 
predominant on the belly, denote freshness and goodness. '''^*^^^'-^ 

Rock Fish, Black Fish, &c-The remark as to firmness and 
clear fresh eyes apply to these varieties of the finny tribe. They 



71 MINE QP wkaltih; and, 

should be eatron when very fresh, otherwise their flavor becomes 
destroyed. 

Salmon. — The fish stiff, scales very bright, the belly thick, the 
gills a brilliant colour and the flesh when cut a beautiful red, will 
prove it to be a fine fresh fish, and upon which alone depends its fla- 
vor and excellence, for no method can completely preserve the del-' 
icate flavor it has when just taken out of the water. 

Salt Fish should be properly soaked in water previous to being 
dressed, for at least twelve hours, then taken out, scrubbed with a 
coarse cloth, and laid on a stone or table to drain for six or eight 
hours, when.it should again be put into water, just lukewarm, tore- 
main there ten or twelve hours. 

Sea Bass. — When fresh, will exhibit very clearly defined stripes, a 
clear eye and firm flesh. When too large they are rather coarse. 
Should be eaten as soon as posible after catching. 

Shad. — When fresh and good, the gills are bright, the scales 
silvery, and the flesh firm. Shad should be cleaned and salted, at 
least six hours before cooking. 

Trout. — See that the gills are a bright red, the spots on the sides 
well colored, with the belly a clear white or slightly tinged with yel- 
low. If the eye is in the slightest degree flabby the fish is not fresh. 

TURBOT, and all flat white fish, are rigid and firm when fresh ; 
the under side should be of a rich cream colour. When out of 
season, or too long kept, this becomes a bluish white, and the flesh 
soft and flaccid. A clear bright eye in fish is also a mark of 
being fresh and good. 

Of the many other varieties of fish offered in our markets nothing 
more need be said — by following the above general rules, (which will 
be found applicable in all cases) fresh fish, and of good quality, can 
always be chosen. 

Shell Fish. — Lobsters, to be had in perfection should be boiled 
at home; choose the heaviest. When they are boiled the tail 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLIOIf. ,1f8 

should have a good spring ; the cock lobster has a narrow tail in 
which the two uppermost fins are stiff and hard j the hten has a 
broad tail and these fins are softer. The male has the best flavour; 
the flesh is firmer, and the colour when broiled is brighter then the 
hen. 

Crabs. — Like lobsters, should be selected by weight ; when prinie, 
the leg-joints are stiff and the scent pleasant. 

Oysters. — There are so many named varieties of the oyster, 
that it would be rather a difficult matter to classify them. None but 
fresh ones should be used for any style of cooking, and these are 
easily known from their general appearance on opening, (as they 
exhibit a cleaness of liquid and full roundness of flesh) which should 
be done with care and by an expert. If on inserting a knife be- 
tween the shells they close firmly, then they are fresh and in good 
condition, if on the contrary they shut slowly and remain open, they 
are not fit for use. The smallest and most delicate are considered 
by most persons best in their raw state whilst the larger or coarser 
varieties are those generally used for cooking, 

RECEIPTS. 

Cat Fish, Fried. — Remove the head and tail, and the upper part 
of the back bone and wash and clean thoroughly ; having scored the 
sides and backs dredge with flour and fry in a pan of boiling lard. They 
can also be fried in a batter made of eggs and tine bread crumbs, 
seasoned with salt and pepper. 

Cod, to boil — Wash, clean, and rub the inside of the fish with salt. 
Let it be completely covered with water, in the kettle. A small fish will 
be done in fifteen minutes after the water boils ; a large one will take half 
an hour ; but the tail being so much thinner than the thick of the fish, it 
will be done too much if it be all boiled at once ; therefore,' the best way 
is, to cut that part in slices to fry, and garnish the head and shoulders 
with, or to serve in a separate dish. Lay the roe on one side, and the 
liver on the other side of the fish. Serve it with oyster sauce, or plain 
melted batter. 



^ MINK OF WEALTH; AND, 

^' Cod Chowder. — Lay some slices of good fat pork in the bottom 
of the pot, cut a fresh cod into tbin slices, place a layer on the pork, then 
a layer of biscuit, then pork, then cod, then a layer of biscuit again, and 
when all is used, add a quart of water. Let it simmer till the fish is done ; 
l>efore quite done, add pepper, salt, and such seasoning as you like, and 
a thickening of flour, with a coffee cup of sweet cream or rich milk. Add 
oysters, to the above if you fancy them. 

Clam Choirdea* is made the same way, only cut off the hard 

leathery parts of the clams. 

Cod, to Fry. — Cut in ihick slices ; flour, or egg, and cover these 
with bread-crumbs, or biscuit powder. Fry in plenty of hot dripping 
or lard. Slices of cod may also be stewed in gravy, like eels. 

Cod's Head and Shoulders. — Wash it clean, then quickly 
dash some boiling water over it, which will cause the slime to ooze out; 
this should be carefully removed with a knife, but take care not to break 
the skin ; wipe the head clean, and lay it on a strainer, in a turbot-kettle 
of boiling water ; put in the salt and a teacupful of vinegar. Take care 
that it is quite covered. Let it simmer from thirty to forty minutes. It 
should drain before it is dished, and the dish be rather a deep one. 
Glaze it with beaten yolks of eggs, then strew over it fine grated bread- 
crumbs, lemon-peel, pepper and salt, stick into it some bits of butter, and 
set it before the fire ; as it browns baste it with butter, constantly strew- 
ing more bread-crumbs and chopped parsley over it. A rich sauce for 
the above is made as follows : have made, in preparation, a quart of 
strong beef or veal stock; or, if to be maigre, a rich, well seasoned, fish 
stock; thicken with flour mixed into butter, and then strain it; add it to 
30 oysters, picked and bearded, the hard meat of a boiled lobster cut up, 
auid the soft part pounded, 2 glasses of white wine (sherry is best,) and 
the juice of one lemon. Boil it, altogether, for 5 minutes, skim it, and 
pour part of it into the dish where the fish is ; the rest serve in a sauce 
tureen. This dish may be garnished with fried smelts, flounders, or 
oysters. When the French cook cod's-head in this way it has the addi- 
tion of being stuffed with either meat or fish forcemeat and some balls 
of the same, fried, as a garnish. Cold cod may be dressed as cold tur- 
bot. Slices of cod may be boiled, as well as fried ; but they should be as 
short a time as possible in the water ; it should, therefore, boil soon after 
the slices are put into it. About ten minutes ought to do them. Shrimp 
sauce may be poured over these, or anchovy sauce. If you wish it to 
be rather rich, make a sauce of veal stock, a boned anchovy and pickled 



SUIDB FOR THE MILLION. 75 

oysters, all chopped fine,, pepper, salt, a gla&s of red wine, and a thickening 
of butter and flour. Boil up and skim, and pour over the slices of cod. 

Cod SoimdSj Soiled. — Soak the sounds in warm water for half an 
hour, then scrape and clean well. Boil in milk and water, and when ten- 
der, serve in a napkin, with egg sauce. 

Cod bounds Ragout. — Scald, clean, and rub the sounds well 
with salt ; then stew in some good highly seasoned gravy, and \yhen 
tender add a little cream and floured butter to thicken; give a boil, and 
season with grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, and a little allspice. 

Eels^ Sroiled. — Skin and clean them, cut into pieces about three 
inches long, and broil slowly over a good fire: then serve with melted 
butter. 

Eels, to Collar. — Skin, gut, remove the back-bone, and cut off the 
heads of as many eels as you want ; then dip into a mixture of salt, com- 
mon pepper, cayenne, grated nutmeg, pounded cloves, lemon-peel grated, 
and some finely-rubbed sage. Boll up in fillets, tie with string as usual, 
boil in salt water, with an equal portion of vinegar, until tender, and 
then remove; add some whole pepper to the pickle, which should be 
placed in a deep dish, and when cold, plunge the eel fillets into it. 

Eel Pie. — Clean a pound or more of eels, cut them in lengths of two 
and three inches, season with pepper and salt, and put them in a dish 
with some lumps of butter; and a wine-glassful of water; cover with a 
light paste, and bake. Some add a couple of bay-leaves and a fagot 
of herbs, with a few cloves and an onion, and veal stock thickened with 
flour, instead of water. Cream added after the pie is done, instead 
of butter before, also improves it vastly. 

Eels, t© Pot. — Skin and clean the eels, split them, and remove the 
back-bone, then cut into pieces two or three inches long, and sea,son 
with pepper, salt, dried sage rubbed fine, and powdered allspise and 
nutmeg. -Place the pieces in a baking-dish in layers, pour in clarfied 
batter until full; cover with paper, and bake in a moderaetly quick oven 
for an hour and a half. When cold remove them, press into pots, and 
cover with clarified butter. 

Fish Cakes. — Bemove all the bones carefully from any given quan- 
tity of either fresh or salt codfish of a previous days cooking , mix it weli 
with mashed potatoes and butter, (having an excess of the potatoes,) to 
which now add well beaten eggs, so as to make the whole into a thict 
paste, and season with black or cayenne pepper as may be desired 
Make up into balls or cakes, sprinkle with flour and fry in lard. 



76 MINE OE WEALTH; ANT, 

Flounder S) Frieil. — Clean and dry the fish well, egg over dip, in 
bread crumbs, and fry a light brown. Garnish with fried parsley, and 
«*erve with plain melted butter. 

Haddock, to boil. — Boil entire, if not very large; and throw a 
little salt, vinegar, and horseradish, into the water, which improves the 
look of the fish, and prevents the skin breaking. Serve hot, with oyster 
t^auco. 

Hake Cutlets. — Cut a moderate sized hake into cutlets, length- 
wise, about the size of ordinary veal cutlets, dry well with a cloth, egg 
well, dip in bread crumbs, and fry light brown ; then serve hot on a 
napkin, with fried parsley garnish. 

Halibut, Fried. — The best pieces for frying, are obtained from 
the middle of the fish, which wash and dry very carefully; extract all 
the bone and cut into slices about an inch in thickness. Take beaten 
yolk of eggs well seasoned and prepare in a pan and in another grated 
bread crumbs. Now season the fish with salt, pepper and butter and 
dip twice alternately in the egg and bread crumbs, and fry in boiling 
lard over a quick fire. 

Herrings, to Fry. — Scale, wash, and dry them in a cloth, but 
do not cut off their heads. Dredge them with flour, and fry them with 
clean dripping or lard over a brisk fire, and when done, serve hot, gar- 
nished with fried parsley round the dish, and parsley and butter for 
sauce. 

mackerel, to Hroil. — Clean, split down the belly, spread open, 
cut off the heads, and pepper well inside : then flour them lightly to pre- 
vent their sticking to the bars of the gridiron, and put over a clear fire, 
until done a light brown, then serve spread open with the inside upper- 
most, with a lump of butter the size of a walnut rubbed over each or 
with plain melted butter. 

ITIackerel, Fried. — Take the swollen sized mackerel for the pur- 
pose, perfectly fresh, and wash and dry them thoroughly ; then make 
some cuts and scores in the back and cover them well with beaten egg 
and bread crumbs. Let the lard be boiling before putting them in to 
fry, and serve them hot. 

Perch as "Water Souchy. — Take a dozen fish, place in a stew 
pan, with about two quarts of water, some parsley roots and leaves 
chopped, but not fine. Boil until nearly the whole of the flesh of the 
fish will run through a coarse sieve with the gravy to them, season with 
pepper and salt, and stew until done ; then turn gravy and all into a soup 



* GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. ^tt 

tareen. Some add onions, but in our opinion it spoils the flavor of the 
souchy. 

Pike, to Bake.-^Scale and clean the fiah, cut off its ins, ftnd stuff 
the belly with pudding meat of best quality ; then place the 
tail in the mouth, as recommended for stewing, and put it upon its belly 
in a baking-dish. Flour the fish well all over, cover with a few lumps 
of butter, and place in an oven, or a Dutch-oven before the fire, taking 
care to baste it occasionaly with some of the fat. When done, remove 
the pike, place on a clean diah, add a squeeze of lemon, a little soy and 
melted butter together, mix, and pour into the dish ; garnish with sliced 
lemon, and serve as hot as possible. * 'iot?jn 

Pike to Stew. — Take stale bread crumbsj flttfely-chopped sweet 
herbs and parsely, a little lemon peel, three ounces of butter, mixed up 
with the yolks of two egga, and seasoned with nutmeg, cayenne, common 
pepper, and salt, and form into a pudding to stuff the fish with. A few 
pickled or fresh oysters chopped fine and mixed with it improves the 
flavor consideratbly. Clean and wash the fish, stuff with pudding, fix the 
tail in the mouth, and stew gently in the same manner as the turbot 
and garnish with sliced lemon. 

Rock Fi§ii, Sea Bass and Black Fish.— These are all 
best boiled plain, after having drawn, scaled and carefully washed them, 
then dredge a cloth with flour, place the fish in it, and place in the fish 
kettle with plenty of water, to which add salt in sufficient quantity. 
The head and tail should be left on. They require about thirty minutes, 
steady boiling; when done remove the cloth, drain well the fish, and 
serve either with egg sauce, or hard boiled eggs sliced, and cold butter to 
the taste. 

Rock Fish, Steweft.-^Cut the fish in slices about an inch thick 
and sprinkle with salt ; put in a stcwpan with some fresh butter, and 
about half a dozen large onions thinly sliced. The fish should be placed 
in layers seasoning each with pepper, and nutmeg, chopped parsely and 
small lumps of butter rolled in flour. Cook one hour over a slow fire, 
and serve hot with egg sauce. 

Salmon, to Broil. — Cut the fish in slices ail inch thick, season 
with cayenne and common pepper, a little nutmeg and salt, roll well in 
buttered white paper, and broil over a slow fire ; serve in the paper, 
with plain melted butter, anchovy, lobster, or shrimp sauce. 

Salmon Collared Split enough of the fish to make a handsome 



f6 MINE OP WEALTH; AND, 

roU, wash, and wipe it well; rub the inside and outside well with 
powdered white pepper, mace, salt, and Jamaica pepper, carefully 
mixed ; roll it tight, and bind it up ; put as much water, and one-third 
of vinegar, as will cover it, add salt, long pepper, allspice, and two bay- 
leaves ; cover it close, and simmer till done enough. Drain and boil the 
liquor quickly, and pour it over the fish when cold ; serve with parsley. 

iSalmon dressed, to pot.— Take the remains of a dressed sal-' 
moD, remove the bones, mash it upon a board, season with a little all-? 
spice, pepper, and salt ; then add some thick melted butter, sufficient to 
form into a paste, but do not make it too moist, then press into a pot, 
and pour clarified butter over the top. If at hand, the coral and spawn 
of a lobster, or a few shrimps or prawns, improve it both in flavor and 
appearance. 

Salmon to PickSe Cold.— Boil some of the liquor in which the 
fish was dressed with an equal part of vinegar, and add some whole 
peper*corns : when it bubbles, remove from the fire, and pour over any 
cold salmon you have at hand. If the salmon is not well done, boil it 
up in the pickle until well dressed. 

Salmon, to Packle Undressed.— Scale the fish, rub well with' 
a eloth, and scrape away all the blood about the back bone, but do not 
wash it; cut off the head, and divide the fish into pieces about six inches 
long, then boil the pieces in pickle made of equal parts of vinegar and 
water, with a few cloves, and two or three blades of mace, until done ; 
skim carefully all the time the fish is boiling and when done remove the 
fish, and pour the liquor into a jar or a tub, so that both may become 
cold; when cold, put the fish into the liquor, with one-third more 
vinegar, and some whole pepper. 

Salmon-Trotit Ple.^-A Plain Wa?/.— .Clean and nicely trim, then 
cut into handsome fillets, as many trout as may be required ; season each 
fillet with pepper, salt, mace, and cayenne, which should be well rubbed 
into the inside, and each fillet afterwards rolled up and well packed into 
the pie-dish. Put bits of butter above and among the fillets, and add' 
six or eight oysters, Take a pint of iish-stock, or the same quantity 
made of the bead and trimmings, thicken and strain -this over the fish; 
then cover in the dish with a good paste, and bake as usual, but remember' 
that it will not require so long a time to bake as a meat-pie. 

Sea Bass Fried. — Kemovc the head and tail of the fish and fry in 
plenty of lard. By adding about a pint of cither stewed and seasoned 
or pickled tomatoes, and dredging with a little flour, they will be 
greatly imprr""-* 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 79 

Skate, to Boil. — The fish having been previously skinned, the flesh 
^ut into slips about an inch wide, and then immerse in salt and water 
for four or five hours, the pieces should be rolled, tied with a piece 
of string, and boiled for about twenty minutes. The thinner parts not 
requiring so long should not be put in until a short time after the water 
boils. Anchovy, and butter sauce, or crab sauce, should be served with it. 

Skate, to Fry. — Prepare the fish as directed to boil egg well, dip 
in bread crumbs, and fry carefully in plenty of dripping. Garnish with 
fried parsley, and serve with crab sauce, anchovy and butter sauce, s<^j 
or ketchup. , i^^ I 

■. Siuifish, and Perch to Fry. — Clean, cut all the fins close off, 
open by the belly, dry well, dust with flour, and fry a light brown, in 
plenty of lard or olive oil. Serve with melted butter, anchovy, soy, or 
ketchup. y^g 

Trout, Boiled. — Clean, scale well, and boil whole in cold water, 
allowing it to boil gradually ; vinegar and horseradish put in the water 
improve the flavor. When done, carefully drain off the water so as not 
to break the skin, aad serve JKith lobster, shrimp, or .anchovy -batter* 
sauce. -'fljc .ftWfil;) 'm" 'V3l vijai;'! A-'Q>iw iivn 

Trout Stewed. — Take white wine and cold water, in equal quan- 
tities, as much as may be required to cover the fish well,, and stew until 
done, serve them hot with a gravy composed of flour, butter, beaten 
eggs and seasoning to taste. 

Tnrliot Baked.— Prepare as above, then season with cayenne,, 
mace and nutmeg powdered, a few sprigs of herbs, butter and grated 
bread crumbs, and place in a deep baking dish and bake. Serve hot. 

TlU*bot, to Boil. — Choose a sufficiently large kettle, pour in suffi- 
cient water to cover the fish, add a handful of salt, a table-spoonful 
of shred horseradish, and two table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Boil until th<? 
water has acquired some flavor, and then allow it to become cool. Score 
the fish just through the skin on the dark side, so as to prevent it crack- 
ing on the other, and then place it in the kettle with the dark side dowi%- ; 
wards, and check the boiling as soon as ebullition takes place ; observe 
also that the scum is removed frequently, and that no blacks fall into the 
kettle. When done, remove, sprinkle the surface with the dried spawn 
of a hen lobster, or if it cannot be procured, a little scraped horseradish. 
Serve with lobster, shrimp, or crab sauce. A moderate sized turbot re- 
quires about half an hour to cook it well, a large one from three quarters 
of an hour,to an hour, a thick slice from twenty to twenty-five minutes, 



9f' MINK OF WEALTH; AIfU,.,0 

-••uuf--/ .'Hncrrv. SiiellFuh. cdT-^Jioa ot ,3tMB^ 

CratHt, Dressed Choose a good heavy crab, boil foV about half 

an hour in salt and water, remove the pot, let the crab get cold ; taKe 
off the great shell without breaking it, extract the fish from the body 
and claws, and mince it well. Put some floured butter in a stew-pjiA' 
with six or eight small mushrooms, parsley, and gi'een asparagus tops, 
shred fine, fry a little, and put in the minced fish with half a wine-glass 
of white wine, and pepper, salt, and sweet herbs to season; stew gently 
for fifteen minutes, thicken with flour, and flavor with lemon juice. Fill 
the shell with this mixture, having previously removed the herbs, set 
in a baking-pan, or dish, strew stale bread crumbs over the top, set in 
an oven to brown, and then serve hot. Garnish with lemon, and parsley. 

Crab, Iflinced. — Remove the meat, mince small and place in a' 
saucepan with a wine-glassful of white wine, pepper and salt, nutmeg, 
cayenne pepper, and two table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Let it stew for ten 
minutes; melt a piece of butter the size of a hen's Gg^, with an anchovy 
and the yolks of two eggs ; beat up and mix well, stir in the crab, and 
add sufficient stale bread crumbs to thicken. Garnish with thin toast 
cut with a pastry leaf-cutter, or with the claws, and parsley. Lobster 
may be dressed in the same manner. 

liObster Balls. — Take the meat of a lobster with the coral ahd 
spawn, pound in a mortar, add bread crumbs, about, a quarter the propor- 
tion of the lobster, and season with cayenne, white pepper, mace, and 
salt. Mix sufficient melted butter with the whole to form into a mass, 
make into balls the size of small apples, egg well, dip in bread erumbs^ 
and fry a pale brown. eiq brw .HGmmo b«oid 

liObster Cutlets. — Choose a large lobster a(n<r "two smaTl bnes, 
reserve a piece of the coral, pick and pound the remainder with a little 
fresh butter, a little salt, red and white pepper, a blade or two of mace',*^^' 
a little nutmeg, and a dessert-spoonful of anchovy sauce: when welT^ 
pounded, add the yolk>4 of two ejrgs and the white of one ; lay the mii^^ 
ture on a paste-board, roll it out with a little flour until an inch thick, 
cut into small squares, do them over with egg, dip in bread crumbs, and' 
fry a light brown in lard. Mix the cornl remaining with a little melted 
butter and anchovy sauce, pour it into the middle of the dish with the 
cutlets arranged round, cut the horns of the lobster into pieces ad inch 
and a half long, place them 1)etween each cutlet and serve hot. A very 
pretty way to dress them is to form into the shape of lamb cutlets, placM^ 
ing a piece of the horn in centre ofthc extremity to resemble the bone. ' > 



QtriDK FOR TH» aiLIif^W ^^ 

IiObster, to Pot Cold. — Chroose a hen lobster. Remove the 
spawn, coral, flesh, and pickings about the head, and mix with the meat 
firbm the claws ; pound well in a mortar, seasoning with white pepper, 
Cayenne, and pounded mace; then add some thick melted bdltter, until it 
forms a good thick paste. Remove the meat from the tail, poUnd and 
season the same, then put half of it in the bottom of the pot, and cover 
with the other paste. Pour clarified butter over the top of each pot, 
and keep in a cool place. 

IiObsier Sailad .— Take three yolks of hard eggs, two yolks of raw 
e^gs, two tea-spoonsful of mustard, a little salt and cayenne pepper, four 
table-spoonsful of salad oil, one and a half table-spoonful of tai'ragon viii' 
egar, and one of essence of anchovies ; mix well, and add thi*ee table- 
spoonsful of cream. Cut two large lobsters up small, and mix with fine- 
ly ciit salad, ciicumber, hot pickles, and beet-root. Pour the mixture 
^veh above over the salad, put in a disii riot a bowl, and garnish wiitii 
bflrd boiled eggs dMt in thin slices 

liObstei* iSauce. — Break the shell of the lobster, extract the meat 
firom the claws and body, cut small; boil the shells in half a pint of 
water, with a little ground allspice and scraped horseradish, until all the 
strength is extracted ; strain the liquor into a stew-pan ; add the lobster, 
h^dlf a' pound of cream or thick melted britter, a teaspoonful or two of 
a&ebovy sauce, and a squeeze of lemon. If you have a hen lobster, re- 
move the coral and spawn, and pound it Up fine in a mortar; stir well 
in the stew-pan, and let simmer gently for about five minutes, but do 
not let it boil ; season with cayenne and salt while stewing. 

Oyster iSlausa^es. — Chop and pound some veal well in a mortar, 
th^n chop up an equal proportion of oysters, mix well and add some 
htetid crumbs and a little beef suet shred fine ; moisten with some of the 
liquor of the oysters, season wiib pepper salt and a little mace, bind 
together with well beaten egg form into sausages or flat cakes, and fry 
a pale brown in good dripping, 

0y inters Scollopedv— Butter the bottoms of your scoll<^ shells, 
tii^n sprinkle with bread crumbs, and lay a suffieient number of bearded 
oydters to cover the bread, season tvith' pepper and salt, aliid place some 
pieces of butter over them ; place another layer of bread crumbs, oysters, 
and butter until the shellsare full then coverthe whole with bread cnini'»* 
add a few pieces of butter on the top, and place in a Dutch-oveu ii>tiun 
tho fire ; when done, brown with a salamander, or a red-h«t shovel IjeUf 
«^ the tb^, )^d serv^ in the scdlloji shellk. ' ' '^ 



gjjSfe; MINE OF WEALTH; AND, 

Soups. 

What constitutes Soup and what are its constituents are two very 
diflfereut questions — many persons think that a medley of market 
supplies thrown carelessly into a pot of boiling water after an indef- 
inite period or hurried cooking makes Soup but such is not the 
case; it requires due proportion of each item, due attention to the 
manner of mingling, and due time to each of the ingredients, and 
indeed if the soup-er-in-ten-dant is not half a scientist it will be but 
a sorry recompense for getting good materials. The French are the 
best soup makers in the world, and this aptitude is so natural, that 
even the common soldiers divide themselves into soup squads, and', 
thus extract from their rations, probably double the nutriment of 
their neighbors the English — who tradition^aJJy go in for every thing 
as solid as possible. : "^c f'-vl*' ^ff^ ■' : ■■'H 

The constituents of soup, then, are not enough to constitute soup, 
without very careful management. This will be easily understood 
w^en it is taken into consideration that the extraction of gelatine 
from meat, which is the basis of good soup, may be or nearly so lost to 
the soup by fierce boiling, and then, what avails the rest ? The vege- 
table additions too may be spoiled by equal inattention. To make' 
good soup, it matters not what the ingredients are, if there is a pro- 
per knowledge of their conditions and nature — a skilled cook can 
make soup out of material that would otherwise be wasted, while 
the best materials without skill would yield nothing worth the 
name. 

There is no form of nutriment so palatable and healthful as prop- 
erly prepared soup, while it may be said that few articles of the 
dinner table are more distasteful than what generally passes under , 
its injured name. Whether we regard the season of the year, or not' 
as suggestive of different soups, oiie thing is certain that what cati- 
not be got cannot be made into soup ; the market must decide, and 
vwhether meat or vegetable, or a mixture of both, the same rule must 



GUIDE FOR THE MIIiLION. 83 

be followed — boil steadily, adjust sorts and quantities judiciously, 
and never over-season — all that is wanted is what epicures call 
piquancy — something to call out the flavors of the meat and vege- 
table compound. Too little attention is paid to color in soup, it 
sibic^ld' be clear and rich, and if there is no natural browning or 
kitchen stock on hand, the addition of a little sugar browned will 
supply this need. It is a matter however of some consequence to 
take into account whether it is winter or summer : in the winter, 
soup is better made before it is wanted, and the vegetable addition 
and seasoning added afterwards, for, by this means, the gelatine is 
much richer after being cooled, and the coarse fat can be easily 
removed. 

In summer only the leaner and best meat should be used and 
only such vegetables as are in the highest perfectioti ;^'^€t"^tllirl is 
■one thing that in both and all seasons should be especially noted, 
and that is, both before and after use, carefully clean and dry the soup- 
pot, and friends who love to feed their brethren well should remember 
that upon the first dish, soup, depends mainly the relish for the rest. 
Many inferior dishes may follow without remark if good soup leads; 
but if this fail, the appetite will criticise every succeeding delicacy, 
and a disappointed fancy often condemn a whole dinner. So much 
depends on the subject of these remarks and which the following 
receipts will illustrate. 

RECEII^TS. 

Karley Sottp — . Two pounds of shin of beef, quarter of a pound of 
pearl barley, a hunch of parsley, four onions, four potatoes, two sweet 
potatoes, salt, pepper a blade or two of mace, and four quarts of water. 
A small piece of a boiled knuckle of ham will improve it. Put all the 
ingredients together, and simmer gently for three hours. 

Beef, Family ^oup. — ^txet what is called a good beef soup bone, 
boil two hours, leaving about two quarts of broth, break two eggs into it, 
about the size of a pigeon's egg, and fried, and add them to the soiip 
Just before s'^ti&ing to talale. 



iJ4 , MINE OF WEALTH ; AND. 

Calf's Head. — Scald, and wash the head clean with salt and'watef' 
then place in a stewpan with snfficiont water to cover it: add a fiig?ft»t 
of sweet herbs, an onion stuck witli cloves, six blades^ of niac'c, iind a 
table-spoonful and a hiilf of pi^arl' barley; Stew t'i'lV tondcf, and suld'a 
head of stewed celery. Season with pepper, pour the ^?oup iritd' tti'e 
tureen, place the head in the centre, and serve. This is an excellent 
soup when carefully prepared. 

Carrot 8oilp. — Take half a dozen full grown carrotf?, scrape them 
clean and then rasp off the outer rind, or soft red part only, add a sliced 
ripe tomato. Prepare any kind of fresh meat broth, and take Iv.d qufidj^ 
of it whilst hot, season it with two onions fried in butter, a small qAmntiiy 
of mace, and a little salt — nothing else ; add the raspings, put the whole 
in a stewpan covered close, and let it simmer by the side of the fire lur 
two or three hours, by which time the raspings will have become soft 
enough to be pulped through a fine sieve ; after which boil the soup until 
it is as smooth as jelly. 

Clam iSoup. — The secret of this soup is merely in the opening of 
the clams ; they must be opened into two dishes, the bodies in one the • ton- 
gues" in another — Scald the tongues and skin them, then cut them small 
and put with the bodies. Cook slowly, with the addition of a little 
water, some white potatoes, parsley, peper, and a trifle of salt. 

Green Pea iSoup. — (t'lain). — Take a quart of large fresh greefl 
peas, boil them in water with salt until thoroughly tender — then pass 
the pulp through a sieve ; take a quart of fresh milk and beat up in it 
the yolk of two eggs and the white of one ; add the pulp to this and 
boil for a quarter of an hour; just before taking off the fire sweeten a 
little with white sugar, and add a little grated nutmeg and lemon peel, 
IiOb§ter Noup. — Take three or four young lobsters boiled, and re- 
move the fish and cut it into small pieces; take out the coral, not the 
berries, pound it so as to separate it and sift it through a coarse strainer; 
take two quarts of good veal stock quite a jelly and cold ; add to it the 
berries bruised, a tablespoonful of anchovy sauce, two ounces of melud 
butter, rubbed into two tablespoonsful of flour; add it to the stock witli 
a blade of mace, let it boil ten minutes, then strain it; add to it the 
meat of the lobsters and the whole of the coral, stir it all up so as to 
make thoroughly warm but do not let it boil. Make forced meat balls* 
(minced) out of the head of lobster, with the soft part, the tips of the 
tails and other scraps, some bread crambs, a teaspoonful of flour, a little 
grated nutmeg, mixed up, with tlie yolk of one egg, made into^ b^U»., 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 85 

mixed Vegetable ^up. — ^Take half a pint of small barley, and 
having washed well, put it into four quarts of cold water, with a lump 
of fat from any kind of roasted meat, a teaspoonful of salt, and half a one 
of pepper. Let this boil gently for two hours, the four quarts will then 
be reduced to two. Cut up two large well scraped carrots, four large 
onions, two beads of celery, and three or four turnips, into thin slices or 
small pieces, aud put them in wben the soup is boiling. Let it boil gently 
for an hour and a half. Mix in a basin, a piled teaspoonful of flour with 
a little cold water until it is like cream. Mix a little flour clear of lumps 
and add it ; stir the soup i;p well, let it simmer a moment and it is done, 
•t ■WtocU. Twrfle Soup.— Take a Calf's or full grown lamb's head, 
thoroughly clean it, breaking the bones and taking out the brains, sepa- 
rating the tongue and detaching the scalp; add the giblets of two tender 
full-grown chickens, and having washed them carefully in cold water, put 
them all into a pot and boil gently in a gallon of water, adding a little 
salt; skim, and when cooked enough peel the tongue and boil down until 
all the meat has boiled from the bones. Take then a large stewpan and 
line the bottom with good fat ham, mix such vegetables as you "please 
with the meat, with pepper and a little mace and a few cloves, and place 
ou the ham, and then gently pour on the soup.' Simmer the whole slowly 
for one hour, adding more seasoning if necessary, and serve whilst hot. 

M aattoii Uroth. — Take the blood out of two pounds of scrag of mut- 
ton, by putting it in a stewpan and covering with cold water ; when the 
water becomes milk-warm pour it off; then put in it four or five pints 
of water, with a teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of best grits, and an 
onion ; set it over a slow fire, and when all the scum has been removed, 
put in two or three turnips. Let it simmer very slowly for two hours, 
then strain through a clean sieve. ,.,)* '->'?»'' 

©yster §OU|«, — Take a quart of milk and a quart of stock ; boil 
them for ten minutes, with a blade of ma^e, and a tablespoonful of essence 
of anchovy ; then set it to cool. Take thi"ee dozen oysters, put them with 
their liquor and a little water over the fire, and barely let them boil ; then 
drain them, taking care of the liquor and throw away their beards. Take 
four tablespoonsful of floUr, mix in a paste, with two ounces of melted 
butter before the fire, add a little cold water, then a little of the soup ; 
then put it over the fire until it is thick, strain it into the soup, and throw in 
the oysters. The whole of the soup will now be nearly cold ; let it boil 
up rapidly at once, and carefully scum it, and serve it as hot as possible. 

Pea Soup. — Cut up two^and a half pounds of pickled pork, or some 



86 MINE OP wealth; and, 

pork cuttings, or the same quantity of scrag of mutton, or leg of beef, (bat 
always witb a little pork flavoring) and put away one of these kinds of meat 
into a pot with a gallon of water, three pints of split or dried peas pre- 
viously soaked in water over night, two carrots, four onions, and a head 
of celery, all chopped small; season with pepper and salt if necessary; 
boil very gently for three hours, taking care to skim it occasionally, and 
stirring it up from the bottom now and then. Serve while hot. 

Soup Stock. — Take four pounds of shin of beef, or four pounds of 
knuckle of veal, or two pounds of each; any bones, trimmings of poultry, 
or fresh meat, quarter of a pound of lean bacon or ham, two ounces of 
butter, two large onions, each stuck with three cloves, one turnip, three 
carrots, one head of cellery, three ounces of white sugar, two ounces of 
salt, half a teaspoonful of whole pepper, one large blade of mace, one 
bunch of savory herb, and four quarts and a pint of cold water. Cut up 
the meat and bacon or ham into pieces of about three inches square ; 
rub the butter on the bottom of the stewpan ; put in half a pint of water 
the meat, and all the other ingredients. Cover the stewpan, and place it 
on a sharp fire, occasionally stirring its contents. When the bottom of 
the pan becomes covered with a pale jelly-ljke substance, add the four 
quarts of cold water, and simmer very gently for five hours. Do not let 
it boil quickly, and carefully remove every particle of scum whilst it i& 
doing, and strain it through a fine hair sieve. This stock, or one sim- 
ilar to it in most respects, is the basis of most of the soups made, and 
will be found excellent for ordinary purposes. 

Sa^O Soup. — Take two quarts of good clear, brown, gravy soup, 
and add to it sufficient sago to thicken it to the consistency of pea soup. 
Season it with any favorite ketchup, and add a little lemon juice. 

Veal White Soup. — Take four calPs feet, and a knuckle of veal 
and boil them in five quarts of water, with three onions sliced, a bun«h 
of sweet herbs, four heads of #hite celery cut small, a tablespoonfut 
of whole pepper, and a small teaspoonful of salt, adding five or six large 
blades of mace. Let it boil very slowly until the meat is in rags and 
has dropped from the bone, and the gristle quite dissolved. Skim it well 
while boiling. When done, strain it through a sieve into a tureen, or a 
deep white-ware pan. When cold, skim off all the fat, and put the jelly 
(for such it ought to be) into a clean soup-pot with two ounces of vermi- 
celli, and set it over the fire. When the vermicelli is dissolved, stir ia 
gradually a pint of thick cream, while the soup is quite hot; but do not 
let it come to a boil after the cream is in lest it should curdle Cut up 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 87 

one or two rolls into small pieces, put in the bottom of a tureen, pour in 
the soup and send it to table. 

Vermicelli. — Put on a quart of soup stock and when it boils add 
two ounces of vermicelli ; simmer gently for half an hour, stirring fre- 
quently. 



: ' i Meats. 

Bacon, fSoiled and Te^etatoles.— Take a ten gallon pot and 
put therein a piece of bacon ; let it boil up gently, and take care to keep 
it well skimmed ; then add some cleaned, washed and split cabbage ; a 
few parsnips and carrots also split, and when it has boiled an hour and 
a half, put in a dozen, more or less as may be required, peeled potatoes, 
and when these latter are done the whole will be ready to serve. The 
liquid in which this has been cooked makes an excellent soup by adding 
a little seasoning and soiiae spicks or crusts of brea,d. 

Bacon Pllddlng". — Take a pound of moderately fat bacon and 
boil for half an hour, and then cut it up into thin slices ; peel an onion 
and half a dozen apples and cut them also into thin slices ; work two 
pounds of flour into a stiff dough, and having rolled it out thin lay the 
sMces of bacon upon it, and the slices of onion and apples upon the bacon; 
roll up the dough so as to secure its contents, securing it well, put into 
a pudding cloth and boil full two hours in a goOd sized pot and an abun- 
dance of water. 

Beef a-la-mode. — Cut out the bone from the beef, and convert it 
with the trimmings into gravy ; stuff the orifice with rich forcemeat. 
Half roast it, and before putting in the stewpan lard the top with dried 
and pickled mushrooms, adding mushroom powder in the orifice ; then put 
in two quarts of gravy from the bones, a large onion stuck with cloves 
and two carrots cut in slices. When the beef has stewed until it is quite 
tender, strain and thicken the sauce, add to it a glass of wine, mushroonn 
or oysters and small pieces of fried paste. The mushroom or oysters 
may be omitted if desired. 

lleei^ Haked, and Potatoes. — The cheapest pieces of beef, 
suitable for baking or roasting, consist of the thick part of the ribs, cut 
from towards the shoulder, the mouse buttock and the gravy pieces, and 
also what is commonly called the chu'ck of beef, which consists of the 
throat boned, and tied up with a string in the form of a small round. 



88 MINK OF WEALTH; AND, 

Whichever you may happen to buy, it should be well sprinkled oyer 
with peppLT, salt and, flour, and placed upon a sniail iron trivet in a 
baking disii, containing peeled potatoes and about half a pint of water. 
If you haki; the meat in your own oven remember that it muist be 
turned over on the trivet every twenty minutes, and that you must be 
careful to baste it all over now and then with the fat which runs frohi it 
into the dish, using a spoon for that purpose. 

ISeel' Collops^. — Cut thin slices of beef from the rump, or any other 
tender part, and divide them into pieces two or three inches long ; l>eat 
them with the blade of a knife and flour them. Fry the collops in 
butter two minutes; then lay them into a small stewpan, and cover them 
with a pint of gravy ; add a bit of butter rubbed in flour. ^. 

Beei', Corned, ivitli Cabbage. — Select .for boiling small whi^te 
cabbages with firm heads; cut them in quarters, and examine carefully 
that there is no vermin lodged in them ; lay them for an hour 
in Salted water to draw out any that may have escaped observation. 
Wash your corned beef well and put on the fire in cold water, and let 
boil sufficiently, remove it, skin the fat from the pot and put in the cab- 
bage while the liquor is boiling. When done^, replace the meat in the 
pot to warm unless it is desired cold. 

Heel", C©rBie<l Hash. — Take corned beef boiled very tender and 
chop it up fine when entirely cold. The potatoes intended for the ha,sh 
should be boiled in the meat liquor, and peeled and chopped fine whilst 
warm. To every teacupful of chopped meat allow four of chopped pota- 
toes, stirring them gradually the one into the other, until the whole is 
mixed. Put the pan on the fire with a lump of b.utter about the size of 
an eg<^, add a little pepper and salt if necessary. When the butter has 
melted put the hash in the pan; add four tablespoonsful of water and stir 
the whole well together. After it has become pretty hot, stir it from the 
bottom, keep it covered and place it where it will merely stew. If a nry 
orown ha.sh is desired, put no water, and prepare over a quick fire. It 
is always best to mix the beef and potatoes over night. 

JBeef^ Dutch. — Com lean beef with a mixture of molasses and moist 
sugar for three days, then salt it well with common salt and saltpetre 
rubbed well in, and turn it well every day for a fortnight. Then roll up 
tight in a coarse cloth and place for some hours under heavy pressure, 
after which hang up in wood smoke, turning it every day. After boiling 
if well pressed, it will grate up or cut in shavings equal to the finest 
Dutch beef. One pound of salt is sufficient for twelve pounds of beef. 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 1^ 

Beeij Fricasse of ISoast l^oSd. — Cut underdone beef into vei'jf 
thin slices, ciiop some parsely very fine, put it with an onion cut up into 
a stew pan, a little butter and a spoonful of flour ; let it fry ; then add 
some strong broth, season with salt and pepper, and simmer very gently 
a quarter of an hour ; then mix into it the yolks of two eggs, and a 
spoonful of vinegar. Stir it quickly over the fire a minute or two, then 
put in the beef, make it hot, but do not let it boil, and serve while hot. 

Beef MaJBig". — Rub a piece of beef with one eighth of its weight of 
salt, to Avhich a little salt-petre has been added, then put in a tub or other 
suitable vessel, place a board over it and pile heavy weight upon it : let it 
remain so for fourteen or twenty ^ays then take out and hang up for a 
m9nth to dry. It eats well boiled tender with greens, carrots, &c., or by 
cutting a lean bit and boiling until extremely tender it can be grated,and 
whilst hot put under a press. When cold it can be folded in a sheet of 
paper and will keep in a dry place for two or three months, and can be 
served on bread and butter. 

Beefj Minced. — Take the lean of some cold roast beef, chop it very 
fine, adding a small minced onion ; and season it with pepper and salt. 
Put it into a stewpan, with some of the gravy that has been left from the 
day before, and let it stew for a quarter of an hour. Then put it 
(two thirds, full) into a deep dish ; fill the deep dish with mashed potatoes, 
heaped high in the centre, smoothed on the surface, and browned with a 
salamander or red hot shovel. 

^ ,Beel§teak Pie — Take rump steaks that have been well hung, cut 
m. small scollops : beat them gently with a rolling pin ; season with 
pepper, salt, and a little shalot minced very fine , put in a layer of sliced 
potatoes, place the slice in layers with a good piece of fat and a sliced 
muttO|n kidney ; fill the dish ; put some crust on the edge, and about an 
lAch below it and a cup of water or broth in the dish. Cover with rather 
a thick crust and bake in a moderate oven, 

Beeil^ Pflaln. — Persons desiring economy may learn from the fol- 
lowing how to practice it without losing their character for good cookery. 
Take a piece of beef, and divide it — -that is to say cut about half of it 
into steaks and the rest reserve for boiling. Into a saucepan two thirde 
full, of v^rater place all that is not wanted for steaks, and a dozen or two 
of whole onions — stew slowly till the onions are done — then fiy the 
steaks, and serve them with the onions, making plenty of gravy — what 
may remain uneaten of the steaks and gravy put into the boiling meat, 
an(i continue it slowly boiling. Let this stand over night to cool — then 



90 MINE OF WEALTH; AND, 

akim off any fat that may have risen — take out the meat and cut it all up 
into small pieces. Season with pepper, and salt, and add from six to a 
dozen sweet potatoes peeled and cut into dice sizes. By this manage- 
ment two meals may be made out of what ordinarily is cooked for one. 

Beef Roast, wISh Yorkshii'e Puddiiaif.— Five tablespoons- 
ful of flour mixed with one of salt, one pint of milk, and three well 
beaten eggs. Butter a square pan, and put the butter in it ; set it in the 
oven until it ris^cs, and is slightly crusted on top; then place it under 
the beef roasting before the fire or the oven, and baste it as well as the 
meat. 

Beef. Bwiep ©f. — This is one of the most juicy of all the joints 
of the beef, but is more frequently stewed than roasted. As it is two 
large to serve whole, generally, cut as much from the chump end to roast 
as will make a good dish. Manage it as though a sirloin. When boned 
and rolled into the form of a fillet of veal, it requires more time. 

Beef, (sliBBi or leg of) or knuckle of Veal .—A shin or 
leg of beef, or a knuckle of veal, of about six pounds in weight will make 
an excellent soup and is thus easily prepared. Cut half a pound of 
bacon into slices, about half an inch thick ; lay it at the bottom of a soup 
kettle, or deep stewpan, and on this place the beef or real, having first 
chopped the bone in two or three places ; garnish it with two carrots, 
two turnips, a head of celery, two large onions, with two or three cloves 
stuck in one of them, and a good bundle of lemon thyme, winter savory 
and parsley. Just cover the meat with cold water, and set it over a 
quick fire until it boils ; having skimmed it well, remove your soup kettle 
to the side of the fire, and let it stew very gently about four hours : then 
take out the meats, strain the soup and set it in a cool place till wanted, 
when the fat must be taken off from the surface of the liquor, which is to 
be decanted into a clean pan, keeping back the settlings. If thick soup 
is desired, take a tablespoonful of the fat off the soup into a stewpan and 
mix it with four tablespoonsful of flour, pour a ladleful of soup to it, and 
mix it with the rest by degrees, and boil it up until it is smooth. Cut the 
meat, gristle and bacon, into small eating sized bits, and put them into 
the soup to get warm, and then serve up. 

Beef, Spiced. — Take a round of beef, put in a quarter of a pound 
of saltpetre finely pounded, let it stand a day, then season it with 
a pound of bay salt, an ounce of black pepper, and the same of allspice, 
both well pounded. Let it lie in pickle a month turning it every day. 
When required for use, chop some shred suet very finely, and coVeV the 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION". 91 

beef with it, and bake it in a moderately heated oven from five to six 
hours. Whilst baiting it may be placed either upon a meat tin, or in an 
e«a,i?then dish as neaj-lyof its, size as possible. In both cases there should 
l^e a cupful of gravy or water under the meat to prevent it from burning. 
■ ..JBeer^teak, gpaussll. — Take the tender loin of beef, have onion:^ 
cut fine and ]>ut into a frying pan, with some boiling butter. When quite 
soft, draw them to the back part of the pan, and having son stoned well 
the beef with pepper and salt, put it in the pan, and rather boil than fry 
it. When done, put the onions over it, and just as much boiling Avaim- 
as will make gravy. Let it stew a few minutes, and serve while well hot. 
ISeei' T©BlgMe, ©ried. — Soak the tongue well over night, then ]mt 
in. a pot of cold water over a slow fire for an hour or two, before it comes 
to •» boil. Let it simmer gently from three to four hours, according to 
its size ; ascertain when it is done by probing with a skewer. Take the 
skin off and serve either hot or cold. 

Beef TOM§:iie, Fresla. — Take a fresh tongue, stick it well with 
cloves, and boil gently for three hours; then brush it over with the yolk 
of an ogg, dredge it well with bread crumbs, and roast it, basting it well 
with butter, ^when dished,, serve it with a little brown gravy, flavored 
with a glass of wine if agreeable, and lay slices of currant jelly around 
it. A pickled tongue may be dressed in the same way. 

IBeelj 'Welsta. — Rub two ounces of saltpetre into a round of beef, 
let it remain an hour, then season it with pepper, salt, and a fourth portion 
of allspice; allow the beef to stand in the brine for fifteen days, turning 
it frequentlv. Work it well with pickle ; put it into an earthen vessel, 
with a quantity of beef suet over and under it, cover it with a coarse 
])aste, and bake it, allowing it to remain in the oven for six or eight hours. 
Pour off the gravy, and let the beef stand until cold. It will keep for 
two months in winter. 

Ks'O'Wiaiiag' for fwravies.— Melt four ounces of sugar in a frying- 
pan, with a little water ; add one ounce of butter, and continue the heat 
i|n^til the whole is turned quite brown without burning ; then pour in a 
pijit of port wine, stirring well, all the time, and remove the pan from 
the fire. When the roasted sugar is d"ssolved, pour it into a bottle and 
add half an ounce each of black .pepper and bruised pimento, six shalols 
cut'sraall, a little mace and finely grated lemon-peel and a quarter of a 
pmt of catsup. Digest for a week occasionally shaking, then strain 
through a muslin and keep for use. 

BubMc and ^iqaieali.— Cut slices from a cold round of beef; let 



X 



92 MIN'E OF WKALTH; AND, 

them be fried quickly until brown, and put them into a dish to keep hot. 
Clean the pan from the fat ; put into it preens and carrots previously 
boiled and chopped small ; add a little, butter, pepper and salt. Make 
them very hot and put them round the beef with a little gravy. Cold 
pork boiled is better for bubble and squeak than beef, which is always 
hard. In either case, the slices should be very thin and lightly fried. 

Haiti Omelet. — Take two eggs, four ounces of butter, half a salt- 
spoonful of pepper and two tablespoonsful of minced ham. Mince the 
ham very finely, without any fat, and fry it for two minutes in a little 
butter; then make the batter for the omelet, stir in the ham, and proceed 
as in the case of a plain omelet. Good lean bacon, or tongue, answers 
equally well for this dish ; but they must also be slightly cooked pre- 
viously to mixing them with the batter. Serve very hot and quickly, 
without gravy. 

fiiiaBSli Pie. — Make « crust the same as for soda biscuit, line a dish, 
and put in a layer of potatoes sliced thin, with pepper, salt, and butter, 
then a layer of ham, or corned leg of pork, cooked and cold ; add consid- 
erable water, bake one hour, and an excellent pie will be the I'esult. 

Mami SS-elish. — Cut some slices of boiled ham, season them as 
highly as may be desirable with Cayenne pepper, and broil them until 
nicely browned, basting with a little butter ; spread mustard over them, 
squeeze on a little lemon juice and serve. 

Ham Toast. — Grate a sufficient quantity of cold lean ham, and 
having beaten together the yolks of two or three eggs, as may be neces- 
sary, with a little cream, work the grated ham into it until tolerably 
thick ; put the whole into a saucepan over the fire and let it simmer 
about ten minutes. Pare the crust off some slices of toasted bread, 
butter them nicely, then spread them thickly over with the ham, and 
serve whilst hot. 

I^aiilb (Boiled I^eg" Ofl) — To make it white, boil in a cloth — 
cut the loin into stakes, dip them in egg, the yolks and whites beaten up 
strew them over with crumbs of bread, fry them a nice brown and plaee 
them round the dish. Garnish with dried and fried parsley. Spinach 
should be served with it. 

liamb, Boiled IVeck or Breast of! — These being small and 
delicate joints, are only suited for a very small family. The blood must be 
carefully cleaned away by washing in warm water. Either of these joints 
when being boiled, must be put into cold water, well skimmed, and very 
gently boiled, until done. Half an hour after they begin to boil, will be 
sufficient for either of them. 



GrVim von THE MILLION. 93 

Llhlllt) Chops. — Cut chops half an inch thick from a loin of lamb, 

retaining the kidney in its place ; dip them into a thick batter of eggs 
and bread crumbs, fry and serve with fried parsley. If the chops are 
made from a breast of lamb, remove the red bone at the edge of the breast, 
and parboil it in water broth with a sliced carrot and two or three 
onions before it is divided into chops, which is done by cutting between 
every second or third bone, and preparing them like the others. 

Kisanib^ I&oa§i liOin, Neck and Breast ol*.— These joints 
should be floured and salted about twenty minutes before they are done, 
The loin will require roasting an hour a.nd a half ; neck jt^i liouF,;;%ni4, tt 
breast, three quarters of an hour. u ..^v ,, .,. . . 

Tiaint), R.oast I^eg' of. — The hind quarter has an average weight 
of seven pounds ; roast two honrs ; the leg' itself about four pounds ; 
roast one hour and a half ; and the fore quarter, about the same time- 
Ribs are thin, and require more care to do them gently at first, and 
brisker as finishing. The fire should be brisk, and the joints frequently 
basted whilst roasting, sprinkled with a little salt, and dredged all over 
with flour about half an hour before done.,., , , . , , .j . ;!.,..;■, 

JLskVSihy stewed BJreast of!— Cut it into pieces, season with pep* 
per and salt, and atew in weak gravy ; when tender thicken the sauce. 
Oucumbers sliced and stewed in gravy form an excellent garnish and 
should be poured over them on being served. • 

liamlJ's Sweett)i»ead.—Blancb them a^id' put into cold water. 
Put them in a stewpan with a ladleful of broth, some pepper and salt, 
Braall bunch of button onions, and a blade of mace ; stir in a bit of butter 
and flour, and slew half an hour. Have ready the yolks of two or three 
eggs well beaten in creatti, with a little minced parsley and a few grates 
of nutmeg. Put in some boiled asparagus tops to the other things, and 
be c?ireful it does not boil after the cream has been added, but kept hot 
and stirred all the time until it is done. 

Laonb, Vegetables and t^arnish for.— Joints of roast lamb 
nUould be garnished with minced parsley, aixd served up with either green 
))eas, spring spinach, asparagus and new potatoes, cauliflowers, or French 
beans and potatoes ; and for sajilce take three heaped up tablespoonsful of 
(inoly chopped mint, and mix it with two of pounded and sifted sugaf, 
md six of the best vinegar, mixing well until the sugar is dissolved. 

Meat Cooked (Slaccarosti) 5*nddiil§r^— Take cooked chicken 
and ham, cold, in equal parts, mince them small and mix well ; then take 
half the quantity by weight of maccaroni boiled in broth, two egga vj^dl 



..,.'^' 



M ^iim 6P WEALTH ; AND, 

beaten, one ounce of butter, and seasoning to please ; mix all wiell together 
put in a basin or mould and boil for two hours. 

Meski Pie ivith Potato Crust — An economical Dish. — Take 
cold cooked beef, mutton, veal, or pork, cut into pieces, and season well 
with salt, pepper, onion, &c. ; take boiled potatoes, mash them with 
milk, form a crust, with which line a buttered dish, and put in the meat 
with a teacupful of water, lay the crust thickly over the meat, and bake 
in a slow oven one hour and a half. 

Mutton, JBoiled Iteg of.-— Soak a leg of mutton for a couple of 
hours in cold water ; then put only water enough to cover it, and let 
it boil gently for three hours, or according to its weight, add some salt 
and an onion or two. It should be removed from the fire at least' fifteen 
minutes before serving, during which time the pot should remain covered 
close. 

Mutton Chops. — Take them from the loin, and from one half to 
three quarters of an inch thick. They should not be put on the gridiron 
until everything else is ready to be served ; have a clear cinder fire to broil 
them ; if the fat falling from them should cause a blaze, remove the grid- 
iron for a moment, and strew a handful of salt upon the fire. "^They should 
be kept continually turned ; the greater part of the chine bones should be 
chopped off; cut off a good deal of the fat, but do not pepper or flour the 
chops, anddserve them one at a time, immediately they are done. 

JMuttOM, Fillet Of — Cut a fillet or round from a leg of mutton; re- 
move all the fat from the outside and take out the bone. Beat it well on 
ail sides with a rolling pin, and rub it slightly all over with a very little 
pepper and salt. Have ready a stuffing made of finely minced onions, 
bread crumbs, and butter, seasoned with a little salt, pepper and nutmeg, 
well mixed. Fill the place of the bone with some of this stuffing. Make 
deep incisions or cuts all over the surface of the meat, and fill them closely 
with the same stuffing. Bind a tape round the meat to keep it in shape. 
Put it in a stewpan with just water enough to cover it and let it stew 
slowly during four, five, or six hours, according to size. Serve with its 
own gravy or tomato sauce. 

Mutton, imitation VeniJUOn. — Bone a loin of mutton, and lay 
it on the fat side in a stewpan, with an onion stuck over with clones, 
uiitil the meat is slightly brown. Then pour over it one pint of broth, a 
^iU of port wine, half a gill of catsup, and let all stew gently together for 
abtout- three hours. Serve it with a rich brown sauce. 

Mutton, IjOin of^ Roasted.— Take off the skin and some of the 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLIOIf. 96 

fat ; joint it and skewer it from the flap into the fillet ; then put the spit 
through the chump and the skewer at the end will secure the joint in its 
place. Roast for an hour and a half. 

Jflutton, liOin O^ Stewed. — Bone a loin of well hung mutton ; 
take off the skin and remove the fat from the inside ; put it into a stewt 
pan, with broth enough to cover it, and let it stew gently until it be- 
comes of a good brown color ; add a glass of good port wine, a large 
spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and some vegetables, cut in shapes, or 
stewed beans. 

Hutton, •Minced.' — Cut some lean meat from a roast leg of mut- 
ton, chop it fine, season with pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and a 
little onion ; mix all together with a quarter of a pound of grated bread ; 
moisten with a tablespoonful of vinegar and a cup of good gravy ; when 
put into the dish lay an ounce of butter in small bits on the top, grate 
bread over it, and add a little more butter; brown it before the fire and 
serve whilst hot. 

Mutton Pie. — -Take mutton tolerably fat and cut into slices, sea- 
soning to please the taste, mixing the fat well with the lean, put into a 
stewpan without water, and when done let it remain until cold: make 
some gravy from the bones, and add to it the strained gravy from the 
mutton. Chop a shalot and one or two onions and add them. Use puff 
paste and make the pie in a dish or in small pattypans, and bake. 

MllttOM and Kice.— Half boil a shoulder of mutton, then ptjt into 
a stewpan with two quarts of the water in which it has been boiling, with 
a quarter of a pound of well picked and washed rice, add a little beaten 
mace and cinnamon, stew until the rice is done, then take up the mutton, 
and add to the I'ice half apintof cream and two ounces of butter rolled in 
flour; then pour over the mutton in a dish and serve. ; ' 

' Mutton, Koast Shoilldes" o€— Have a good clean fire, flour the 
Joint well before spitting, and baste it constantly with its own dripping ; 
be careful not to burn the fat by placing too near the fire. A moderate 
sized joint will require an hour and a half to roast. It may be served to 
table with stewed onions. 

Pork. IFresll Pot Pie. — Boil a spare rib of pork until quite tender, 
after removing the fat and cracking the bones ; remove the scum as iti'ises, 
and when nearly done season with salt and pepper ; about half an hour 
before time of serving, thicken the gravy with a little flour, have ready 
another pot or pan into w{iich remove all the bones and most of the gravy, 
leaving oiily,§ufiSGient to cover the pot half an inch above the rim that 



W M3NB OT WEALTH; ANH; 

reats on the stoVe ; pii^t in< the crust, cover tight and boil atoadfly twenty 
to thirty minutes'. 

Pork Chops. — Cut the chops ibout half an inch thick ; trim them 
neatly ; put a frying-pan on the fire, with a bit of butter : as soon as it in 
hot, put in the chop.s, turning them often until brown uU over; fifteen 
minutes is suflScient to have them well done. Season them with fl little 
nicely minced onion, powdered sage, and pepper and salt 

Pork Olives. — Cut slices from a fillet or leg of cold fresh pork, 
Make force meat in the usual manner, only substituting for sweet herbi^i 
some sage leaves chopped fine. When the slices are covered with the 
forcemeat, and rolled up and tied round, stew them slow^ly either in cold 
gravy left of the pork or in fresh lai'd. Drain them well before they ^0 
to table. Serve them up on a layer of mashed turnips or potatoes, o¥ H- 
in season, mashed sweet potatoes. "<■ 

Pork, (Pag's Head) with Cabbage — Pig's head is cheAp M 
when well cooked it is delicious ; the tip of the snout chopped off, and put 
in brine a week is good for boiling, so also the cheeks, though some pre* 
fer these latter baked with beans ; but the whole head is best with cab- 
haue. Select for boiling small white cabbage with firm head ; cut them 
in quarters, and examine carefully that there are no vermin secreted in 
there ; put them in strongly salted water for an hour before cooking in 
order to draw out any that may have escaped detection. Put the pig's 
head or such part as may be required to boil at least an hour before the 
eabbage, and skim the pot carefully. When done the cabbage should be 
well drained before serving. 

Pork Ror* St.— Young: Pig.— Crumble the soft part of a loaf 
of bread, add half a pound of butter a good deal of salt, pepper and sage ; 
stuff the pig and sew it up ; roast two hours and a half; baste frequently 
witk salt and water. For gravy, boil the liver, feet, &c, quite tender 
with salt and pepper ; when done, chop up and mix three ounces of but- 
ter with a couple of tablespoonsful of flour, stir it well into the gravy, let 
hoi! a moment, ajad when t^e pig is carved add the brains. Serve it and 
1*1.^0 apple sauce. ,^.j 

^^aitNa^l^e Cakes.— Chop a pound of good pork fine, add to it half a 
t«a.sp()unfi!l of pepper, half a spoonful of cloves, half a spoonful of cori- 
ander seed, and four tablespoonsful of cold water. Mix all well together 
form them into small cakes, and fry in a hot pan. 

^ausa^e Diiinplin^s.— Take oric pound of flour and two otinces 
of chopped suet, into a thick paste, with only water enough to mix it. 



GUIDE FOR THE JflLLIOlS'. <IW 

ftnd having divided it into twelve eqnal parts, roll each out separately 
just large enough to retain a beef or potk sausage which place in it, wet- 
ting the edge of the paste so as to fasten the dumpling securely, andi is 
fast as prepared put them into a pot or saucepan with an abundance of 
water boiling quickly. When the whole are completed reduce to a very 
gentle boil for over an hour, and then serve whilst hot. 

Sausag^e Fried. — They should always be quite fresh made. Put a 
bit of butter or dripping into a clean frying pan; as soon as it is melted 
and before it gets hot, put in the sausages, and shake the pan for a min- 
ute or two, and keep turning them, but being careful not to prick themfn 
so doing ; fry them over a slow fire until they are nicely brown on all sid^S ; 
when they are done lay them on a hair sieve for a couple of minutes be- 
fore the fire to strain the fat from them. The secret of frying sausages is 
to let them heat gradually ; they then will not burst unless they are stale. 
The common practice to prevent their bursting is to prick them with a 
fork but this lets the gravy out. '^ 

Veal Breast 0I5 Stewed. — Cut a breast, or a portion in pieceM •, 
fry them with a little butter, an onion, and a cabbage-lettuce shred small , 
when browned add a little flour, shake it well together : then add a small 
quantity of broth or water ; let it stew gently. When the veal is three 
parts done, take a quart of peas, put them in water and handle them with 
a little butter, so that they adhere together ; take away nearly all the 
gravy from the veal, and put in the peas. When both are done add 
pepper and salt and a little pounded sugar ; thicken the peas with flour 
and butter, dish up the veal, and pour the peas over. There should be 
very little sauce with the peas. "'- 

Veal, Fillet ©1* Corned. — Take a large fillet of veal and make 
deep incisions or cuts all over it with a sharp knife, and insert a slip of the 
fat into each cut, pressing it down well to keep it in. Mix a tablespoon- 
ful of powdered saltpetre with half a pound of fine salt, and rub the med,t 
all over with it. Make a brine of salt and water strong enough to swim 
an egg on its surface, adding a lump of saltpetre about the size of a waln«t. 
Put the meat into the brine, and of which there must be more than enougli 
to cover it, and let it remain ten days, turning it every day. Then take 
it out wash oflf the brine, and boil the veal until thoroughly done and tender 
throughout. It is best eaten cold and sliced thin. 

Veal Cutlets and Spinach. — Take cutlets, egg and bread 
crumbs, salt and pepper to taste, and a little clarified butter. Brush 
the cutlets over with egg, sprinkle them with bread crumbs, and season 



98 MINE OP WEALTH; AND, 

with pepper and salt. Dip them into elarified butter, sprinkle over a few 
more bread crumbs, and fry them over a sharp fire turning them when 
required. Lay them before the fire to drain, and arrange them on a dish 
with spinach in the centre, which should be previously well boiled, 
drained, chopped and seasoned. Peas or asparagus, or beans may be 
substituted for spinach. 

^ , Veal, Knuckle of and Rice. — Put the knuckle of veal into a 
boiling pot, with a pound of bacon, two pounds of rice, six onions, three 
carrots cut in pieces, some peppercorns, and salt in moderation on account 
of the bacon ; add three or four quarts of water, and set the whole to 
stew very gently over a moderate fire for about three hours. This will 
provide a good substantial dinner for at least ten persons. 

Ai Veal JVIinced. — Take three or four pounds of the lean only of tJie 
fillet or loin of veal, and ham, also minced. Add three or four small 
onions chopped fine, a teaspoonful of sweet marjoram leaves picked from 
the stalks, the yellow rind of a small lemon grated, and a teaspoonful of 
mixed mace and nutmeg powdered. Mix all well together, and dredge it 
with a little flour. Put into a stewpan, with sufiicient gravy of cold 
roast veal to moisten it and a large tablespoonful or more of fresh butter. 
Stir it well and let it stew until thoroughly done. If the veal has been 
previously cooked, a quarter of an hour will be sufficient. 

Veal, Shoulder of French Dres§ing'. — Cut the veal into nice 
square pieces or mouthsful, and parboil them. Put the bone and trim- 
mings into another pot and stew them slowly along time, in a very little 
water, to make the gravy. Then put the meat into the dish in which it 
is to go to table, and season it with a very little salt and Cayenne pepper, 
the yellow rind of a large lemon grated, and some powdered nj ace .and 
nutmeg. Add some bits of fresh butter rolled in flour, or some cold drip- 
pings of roast veal. Strain the gravy and pour it in. Set it in a hot 
oven and bake it brown. Any piece of veal may be cooked in this w^y. 
Veal, Roast Rreast of — Cover it with care, and if the swefet- 
bread is retained, skewer it to the back, but take off the caul when the 
meat is nearly done ; it will take two and a half to three hours roasting. 
*It may be also baked in the same way. , i 

"' ' Veal Sausages. — Chop fat bacon and lean veal in equal parts, with 
a handful of sage, a little salt, pepper, and, if at hand, an anchovy; ult 
.must be well chopped and beaten together, then made into sausage^ or 
ttoUed into small cakes, and fried. , „ 



(JUiDE FOR THE MILLIOiT. 99 

Poultry and Game. 

Capons OP Fowls, Boast. — Capons, and fowls, and chickens 9f e 
roasted or baked and served as turkeys, with the addition of egg sauce, 
requiring of course less time and are seldom stuffed. From half an hour 
to an hour and a quarter jWj^ .suffice, according to age and size. 

Chieken or Fowl fBr oiled. — Split them down the back ; season 
well with pepper and put on the gridiron with the inner part next to the fire, 
which must be very clear. Hold the gridiron at a considerable distance 
from the fire, and allow the chicken or fowl to remain Until it is nearly 
half done ; then turn it taking care it does not burn. ; Brpil it to a,. fine 
,ljro^yn, and serve with stewed mushrooms or their .savice. A. ^uck m,^y 
be broiled in the same way. 

ClBicIicn Fricassee^ — Half-boil a chicken in a little water, let it 
cool, then cut it up, and simmer in a gravy made, of some of the water 
in which it was boiled, and the neck, head, feet, liver, and gizzard stewed 
well together. Add an onion, a faggot of hei^bs, pepper and salt, and 
thicken with butter rolled in flour added to the strained liquor, with-- ^a 
little nutmeg, then give it a boil, and add a pint of cream, stir over the 
fire, but do not let it boji. Put the hot chicken into a dish, pour the 
sauce over it ; add some fried forcemeat balls ; and garnish with slices 
of lemoii> ; . . 

CMcken PlMldmg" Kaked. — ■•Ctit' up two young chickens, an& 
season them with pepper, salt, a little mace and nutmeg. Put them iritb 
a saucepan with two large spoonsful of butter, and watej". enough to cover 
them. Stew them gently; and when about half cooked, set them away 
to.cool. Pour off the gravy, and reserve it to be served up separately. 
Make a batter as if for a pudding, of a pound of flour stirred gradually into 
a quart of milk, six eggs well beaten and added by degrees to the mix- 
ture, and a very little salt. Put a layer of chickens in the bottom of the 
pie-Klish, and pour over it some of the batter ; then another layer of chick- 
ens, then more batter, and so on having a layer of batter on^top. Bak^ 
until it is brown. Break an e^^ into tjie gr3,vy;,^i]i^-pj^t.,^,|)j3ilji,^ai^d,§,e^ 
fe t^ble with the pudding. ii ! : . 

: CBiackens stewed whole.— ^Prepare a .paar of j5n«?..f?<t chiokens 
with the liver under one wing and the,gizzard under the other, and- fill the 
iusides with large oysters secured from failingjuOut by f^teniag them 
round the bodies with tape. Put them into a tiu trntter-kettle with » 
close <3over, set the kettle into a larger pot or saucepan of boiling water. 



100 MINK OF WEALTH; AND, 

taking care that the water does not quite reach the top of the kettle, ant? 
place it over the fire. Keep it boiling steadily until the chickens are 
done, which will be in about one hour after the pot has begun to boil. 
As the water boils away replenish it with boiling water, which should be 
kept ready in a teakettle. When done remove them from the gravy fibout 
them, and leave them clearly covered in the kettle; put the gravy in a 
saucepan and add to it two tablespoon sful of butter rolled in flour ; two 
of chopped oysters ; the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, fine minced, sonnr 
nutmeg, mace and a little cream. Boil five minutes, and send the chick- 
ens to the table with it. 

Ducks, to Roast. — After plucking and singeing carefully, let them 
be well washed and dried. Make a seasoning of onion, sage, prepper, and 
salt. Fasten it tight at the neck and rump. Paper the breast-bone, 
baste well, and when the breast is rising take oflF the paper, and serve 
before the breast falls, with plenty of good gravy. Be sure to have 
apple-sauce ready. 

Dueks, CailTas-back, Roast. — Truss the ducks, and put into 
each a thick piece of bread that has been soaked in port wine. Place 
them before a quick fire and roast them from three quarters to an hour. 
Before they go to table squeeze over each the juice of a lemon or orangey 
and serve them up very hot with their own gravy around them. Eat 
with currant jelly. Make also a gravy by stewing slowly in a saucepan 
the giblets to the ducks in butter rolled in flour, and as little water as 
possible. Serve this gravy up like wine. 

Fowls, Cold, to Rress. — Take the remains of a cold fowl, re- 
move the skin, then the bones, leaving the flesh in as large pieces as possi- 
ble ; dredge with flour, and fry a light brown in butter: toss it up in a good 
gravy well seasoned, thicken with butter rolled in flour, flavour with 
lemon, and serve hot 

' Fowls Curried ]?Iala1iar Fashion.— Cut a fowl into small 
joints, and wash it well in cold water. Mince an onion or two, put three 
ounces of butter, in a stew-pan, fry the onion a nice brown, then add the 
meat, a tablespoonful of flour, the same of curry powder, and simmer for 
ten minutes, then add a pint of veal broth or water, and stew for half an 
hour, with a stick of cinnamon. Scrape some cocoa-nut into a basin with 
a gill and a half of warm water, press it well with the back of a spoon, 
strain through a sieve, and add with two or three bay-leaves before serv- 
ia|;. Shake the pan once or twice, squeeze half ft lemon ia, add a tables 



GUIDE FOB THE MILLION. 101 

spoonful of vinegar, and serve hot, with the rice separate, having pre- 
viously removed the bay-leaves. 

iwoose Iloast.-^Prepare a goose by picking, singeing and cleaning 
it well, and making the stuffing with four common sized onions, about an 
ounce of green sage finely chopped, a large cup of stale bread crumbs, 
one of mashed potatoes, pepper, salt, a small lump of butter, and an egg 
or two ; mix them well together and stuff the goose. As the stuffing will 
swell it is important not to fill the goose too much. Pass the spit 
through it and tie at both ends, to prevent its swinging round, and the 
stuffing from coming out. Roast with a lively fire. At first baste with 
salt and water but afterwards with its own dripping. Two hours will 
roarit it. It may be baked in the same manner. 

In all cases have the goose well and thoroughly cooked, otherwise the 
meat is strong and not easily digested. 

Partriclg^e Pie. — Pick, singe, and clean four partridges, cut off the 
leg, at the knee, season with pepper, salt, thyme, chopped parsley, and two 
mushrooms of moderate size chopped fine. Put the partridges at the bot- 
tom of the dish, and lay over them somie veal steak and ham, cut into pieces 
•bout two inches square ; add half a pint of good veal broth, cover witk 
a good puff paste in the usual way, brush over with egg, and bake for 
an hour. The general way of laying the meat at the bottom of the dish 
is wrong, because by the method given above, the partridges receive the 
flavor of the meat, which is in a measure prevented by adopting th« old 
method. In some pies — ^pigeons for instance — some of the meat should 
be placed at the bottom as well as the top. >> .L ?^>»/5'?l! .; ht*'' 

Pheasant, larded and roasted, lSp01*tiiiali's fasMon. — 
When the pheasant gives off a peculiar odor, and the skin of the breast 
changes color a little, it should be plucked carefully, but not sooner. 
When plucked, lard it with some good fresh bacon very carefully, and 
then stuff with the following : — Take two woodcocks, and divide the flesh 
into one portion, and the tail and liver into another ; mince and mix the 
meat with some good beef marrow, a little scraped bacon, salt, pepper^ 
and lemon-thyme, or other herbs ; add truffles sufficient to fill up the rest 
of the inside of the bird, then stuff it in and secure well, so that none of 
it may escape, which may be effectually done by placing a crust of bread 
over the opening, and sewing it up. Make a paste of the livers of the 
woodcocks, some truffles,- grated l?acon, an anchovy boned, and some 
fresh butter ; cover the bird with this, put down to roast, and when done 
serve upon a slice of toasted bread, surrounded with slices of orange, and 



102 MINE OP WEALTH; AND, 

some of the gravy round the bird, [This receipt was obtained from an 
old epicurean sportsman, who vouched for its being a first-rate way of 
cooking the bird, and further recommended that a table-spoonful of cham- 
pange or burgundy, should be poured over the bird, in ;iddition to a good 
libation of the same wine during the time it is being partaken of.] 

Pheasants, and Partridges. — They are rarely stuffed, it is 
more eustomaiy to send them to table accompanied by forcemeat in the 
dish, and in many cases with the simple gravy only ; the real epicure in 
game prefers the flavour of the bird uncontaminated by any accesso- 
ries, save those which just assist to remove the dryness common to most 
game. Pheasants are sometimes larded ; but as the flavour is entirely 
distinguished by the taste of the bacon, incorporated with the flesh of the 
fowl, unless it is done for appearance than palate we would not advise 
it. In dressing a pheasant, it should be drawn and cleaned as other 
game, and trussed, and should be roasted before a clear, not a fierce fiire j 
it will take forty minutes, but it must not be sent to table underdone. 

They ma}' be, and are oftener, plain roasted than not, but very fre- 
quently larded, and if two are served in a dish have one larded ; but when 
stuffed, by some, larding is most approved. Mince very fine some raw 
veal with a small quantity of fat bacon, with a few bread crumbs, pepper 
and salt*; with this stufif your birds, baste frequently, and flour and salt 
them before you take them up. To any game of this kind you may 
introduce either chestnut stuffing or truffles ; only to be cut in slices or 
put in whole. 

Pigeons, Uroiled. — Cut the pigeon down the back flatten and 
truss it as a fowl for broiling. Egg it on both sides ; season with pepper 
and salt, dip it in chopped sweet herbs and bread crumbs ; warm a little 
butter sprinkle it over, and then dip the pigeon again in the crumbs. 
Broil it a light brown. Serve with any agreeable sauce. 

Pigeons Compote. — Truss six pigeons as if for boiling; grate the 
crumb of a small loaf: scrape a pound of fat bacon; chop parsley, thyme, 
an onion or two shalots, and some lemon peiel, fine; gi'ate some nutmeg, 
season with pepper and salt, and mix up with two eggs. Put this force- 
meat into the craws of the pigeons, lard the breasts, and fry them brown. 
Place in a stewpan with some beef-stock, stew three quarters of an hour, 
thicken with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and dish up with force-meat 
balls around the dish; strain the gravy over the pigeons and serve hoi. 

Rabbats. — There are several ways of cooking this little animal — 
and when properly dressed is a nourishing luxury that ought to be in 
more general use : — 



GUIDE FOR THE ,MILHQI3|^ 103 

To fSoii W^laoie. — When cleaaed, skewer into a compact fonn aud 
fill the inside ;with onions, eschalots,, or leeks, taking care that the liver 
properly freed from the gall is not left out. Put into cold water and only 
just as much as will eoyer it, and boil slowly till done. Then take the 
onions and cut them in pieces and put into some of the liquor the rabbit 
was boiled in, and boil up, thickening with a little flour, and adding some 
pepper and salt. . Remove the skewer, place on a dish, pour over the sauce 
and having chopped the liver very, fine, .sprinkle i;b +oj,^^^Qr around the 
rabbit. Serve as hot as possible. , ' , > 

18.al>]bits Haked. — Take slices of streaky pork or bacon cut very 
thin and skewer over the back of the rabbit. Having stuffed with mash«3,d,j 
potatoes, and seasoned with fine dry sage, pepper and salt. 

Rall>)>lt Curry. — Cut up a rabbit as for a fricassee ; fry it a 
light brown, and stew in gravy. Add a table-spoonful of curry powder, 
and, if necessary, cayenne pepper and salt. When stewed sufficiently, 
tjirckeni 'With, but^ter rolled- in flour, and add lemon juiae, shalots or garlic ; 
serve with rice, and garnish with lemon. 

Rial>toat, Fricassee of. — Wash and cut a young rabbit into joints, 
and put them in a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of streaky bacon cut 
small an onion stuck with cloves, a faggot of herbs, a blade of mace, and 
some salt; cover the whole with water, and let it simmer twenty minutes, 
keeping it well skimmed ; pass the liquor through a sieve. Into another 
stewpan put two ounces of butter, a tablespoonful of flour, and a little of 
the liquor ; set on the fire, stir well until it boils ; add the rabbit and 
bacon, with a dozen and a half of small onions; let the whole simmer 
until the onions are done ; skim well ; then pour "in at wine-glassful of 
white wine, mixed with the yolks of two eggs, and a little grated nutmeg ; 
leave it to tliicken, remove the rabbit, pile it on sippets, sauce over, gar- 
nish with sliced lemon, and serve hot. 

Rafefeit l*ie. — Cut up a rabbit and season it ; bake it with eggs and 
sausage meat, as u-sual; or in a raised crust, and when cold cover with 
s^avory jelly. 

' i UsaltSjit, to ©tew.— Divide the raibbJt into quarters, lard them with 
large slices of bacon, and fry them; then put into a stewpan, w'.th a quart 
of good broth, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little 
pepper and salt, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. When done, dish 
up, and pour the gravy sauce on them. Garnishing with sliced lemon. 

9. — Having stewed some onions until only skins are left; strain 
through a cullender. In this liquor place one or more rabbits cut into 



101 MINE OP WEALTH; AND,*^^^ 

convenient pieces — season with pepper and salt — and when nearly done 
fihv witliin fifteen minutes add two or three sweet potatoes cut up into 
dice sized pieces. 

" Kepley Rabbit Pie," the celebrated.— This is a popular 
dish in all the villages round the new Forest in England, and is pre- 
pared in t!ie following manner: — Take a deep pie dish and line with thin 
slices of bacon. Prepare a mixture of dry sage in powder, pepper and 
salt. Cut the rabbit in pieces, peel a few white potatoes, and cut to the 
size of half an egg. Chop up some onions; when all is prepared lay them 
in the dish, alternately, and sprinkle the seasoning and onions as you 
proceed. Bake this slowly and thoroughly, and when done slightly 
loosen the contents from the dish and place on the table and if any one 
who pnrifikes does not ask, like Oliver Twist, for "more," the fault must 
lie with the cook. .1 

SsMali Birds, Baked- — These should be picked clean, trimmed 
close, and stuffed with a paste made of any rich gravy, oatmeal and a 
little butter, flavored with powdered summer savory pepper and salt. 
Skewer in rows, and bake slowly, serve on toast and pour over a little 
hot rich gravy. 1; 

TTeaB^ to Boast. — Dress the same as wild ducks but it is well, unless 
ordered otherwise, to dress one well and the other rather less, as some 
(epicures prefer wild-fowl underdone, as it is said to be finer flavored. 
Epicures eat wild-fowl without sauce, but a good brown gravy, flavored 
with shalot, cayenne, salt, and port or claret, is usually served hot over 
the birds. lliimH 'luiiBd « bti« Ivbxtb « diiw ,.i.')ai) 

Turkey Boiled. — Make a siufBng consisting of bread crunibs 
very fine, or pounded crackers, raw salt pork chopped very fine, a shredded 
onion, some sage or any other desired herb, seasoning with pepper; work 
all together with the yolks of one or two eggs. Put on the turkey in 
boiling water, just enough to cover it well ; let boil slowly and remove 
the scum as it rises. Boil from one hour and a half to two hours accord- 
ing to size. Serve with oyster sauce. The turkey may be boiled by 
putting into a stewpan over boiling water, and instead of stuffing as 
above, oysters may be used. 

Twrkey Bevilled. — Mix a little salt, black pepper and cayenne, 
and sprinkle the mixture over the gizzard rump, and drumstick of a 
d.essed turkey ; broil them and serve very hot with this sauce ; mix with 
some of the gravy out of the dish, and a little mustard, some butter and 
flour, a spoonful of lemon juice, and the same of soy ; boil up the whole. 



GUIDE FOE TOE MILLION. 

Turkey, Dutch way.— -Boil, season witk §alt, pepper, and 
cloves; add a quarter of a pound of rice or vermicelli to every quart of 
broth, serve hot, garnishing witii toasted bread cut with a pastry-cutter. 

Tmrkey Fatties.— Mince part of the breast fine, season with salt, 
nutm(!g, grated lemon, white pepper, and a little butter warmed. Fill 
fhe patties, and bake as usual. 

Turkey IS.oa§t. — Make a stuffing of pork sausages, an egg or two 
beaten up, some bread crumbs and a shredded onion. Fill the body and- 
under the breast with the stuffing, and put to roast before a sharp, clear 
fire, at a moderate distance for some twenty minutes, but closer after- 
wards. Baste with butter and when nearly done dust it over lightly with 
flour and baste again with melted butter. Serve it with its own gravy 
f*(im the dish, with the liver, gizzard, &c., cooked and added to it, with 
bread sauce. A large turkey will require three hours roasting, a smaller 
one in proportion. A turkey may be prepared and baked in the same 
manner. 

VenisoBi^ to Mash. — Carve your venison into thin slices, and put 
them into a stevvpan with two small glasses of port wine; add a spoonful 
6f browning, one of ketchup, an onion stuck with 'cloves, and half an an- 
chovy chopped small, and let it boil, then put in your venison, making it 
thoroughly hot through. Lay sippets of toast, in various shapes in a 
soup dish, pour the hash upon it, serve with currant jelly. 

Vemson, to Roast. — All venison for roasting should have a paste 
made of lard over it ; after having prepared the meat with buttered pa- 
per, then lay your stiff paste upon the top of that, either dangle it or put it 
in a cradle spit; a few minutes before you require to take it up take off 
the paste and paper, baste it with some butter, salt it and flour it; when 
done give it a few more turns round, and send up very hot, your dish 
to be very hot also ; and the dry pieces and the shank you will boil 
down with brown stock for the gravy ; send currant jelly in a boat, and 
French beans in a vegetable dish. 



There are no Sportsmen whether of the Gun or Eod who do not 
enjoy '* the fruits of their labor" served up to them, in sportsman- 
like style — that is " under the shady greenwood tree" and as few 
know except the very experienced, how simple is 



')»fi*i v«iyi«' 



lOBi MINE OP WEALTH; AND, 

bitft Enjoyment, when the toil is o'er "^^^ >V^lllii»T 

And prizes counted by the Score ; 
To gather round a crackling fire 
The young and old, the son and sire. 
And from the spoils of sport to feed 
Together, on the grassy mead. 
-ba« vtiod ')• 

We will give our sporting friends a few directions calculated to 
enhance and prolong the manly results of such out door enjoyment. 
Some pepper and salt, a sheet of clean paper, a few matches and a 
pocket knife are all that is needed, except of course a few crackers. 
These each person should carry for himself in his own gamebag or 
pockets. 

Suppose birds are to be cooked, the following is the plan — hollow 
^ basin shaped hole and press it close — then build a fire over it till 
the ground all around it is hot, then clean out the hole and place 
your birds, feathers and all, snugly together therein on their backs 
and pile over them the hot embers wood ashes and all. 

Now make up another good fire, and you may disperse for an 
hour and come back to dinner. Carefully remove the fire and as 
carefully lift the birds — each one takes his bird and strips off tb© 
skin, which comes off leaving the bare breast, juicy and clean — this 
he transfers to his plate (i. e. his sheet of paper) and eats the out side 
only, the breast, thighs, &c — and if he does not enjoy his " bread and 
cracker." it is because 

His disposition doth complain 

For want of common sense and brain. 

Fish and small animals are as easily cooked out of doors, but each 
one will req^uire a little study of its own " ways and means," 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 107 

Puddings, Pastry ^ Cakes, ^cf^hs«0T«ff') >t?o 
This Department of Cooking requires more than ordinary caution 
and should be attended to with the strictest care. If the cook 
through negligence should fail to have washed and dried the pud- 
ding cloth well, the outside will taste disagreeable and thus spoil 
the flavor of the whole pudding. Most puddings are better boiled 
in an earthen bowl or tin boiler, than in cloth alone. These how- 
ever must be tied in a cloth, not only for convenience in removing 
them from the pot, but in order* to prevent the admission of water 
Where a bag alone is used it should be cut narrower at the bottom 
than at the top, the corners rounded, and the stiching very firm and 
close, and when in use th'C seams turned outside. .A few inches 
from the top of the bag a tape should be sewed on to tie it with. Al- 
ways dip your bag in boiling water, squeeze it dry, and flour it 
well before using ; pour in the pudding, draw the bag together as 
oldsely as possible, tie it securely, allowing sufficient room for the 
pudding to swell. Immerse it thoroughly, in the pot in boiling 
water and every five or ten minutes during the first half hour, turn 
it over to prevent the fruits settling on one. side ; keep a tea-kettle 
of boiling water ready to replenish the pot as it boils away, as it 
must be kept covered with boiling water when a cloth bag is used. 
When you take it up, put into a strainer or colander, and pour a 
little cold water over it to prevent its sticking to the cloth ; untie 
the bag, and put it over the dish it is to be served in, turn it over 
and remove the strainer and bag. 

When eggs are used in puddings, they should be strained before 
adding the eggs, butter the pans or basins and flour the cloth. 
Where hot milk and eggs are used together be careful not to add 
I lie milk whilst too hot otherwise the eggs will be partially cooked 
and the lightness and appearance of the pudding spoiled. Excellent 
puddings can be made without eggs, but they must only have milk 
enough to mix them, and must boil three or four hours. 



iM MINE OP WEALTH; AND, 

TLe n.ost digestible pudding is that made with bread, or biscuit, 
or boiled flour grated. Paste puddings or dumplings are extremely 
indigestible ; batter pudding is not easily digested and suet pud- 
dings are to h& considered not only mischievous but even dangerouS 
to invalids. Pancakes are to many objectionable on account of the 
frying imparting a greasiness. Boiled Indian Meal puddings are not 
very indigestible and are far preferable to wheat flour. It is always 
well to mix puddings, an hour or two before cooking them, except 
when self-raising flour is used, when they, should be put into the 
boiling water as soon as mixed. 

A bread pudding should be tied loose; if batter, it must be tied 
tight over, and a batter-pudding should be strained through a coarse 
sieve when all is mixed. In others, the eggs only. If you boil the 
pudding in a basin or pan, take care, that it is always well buttered. 

Pancakes are very generally liked, though not the most whole- 
some things in the world. The batter requires long beating ; but 
the art in making pancakes' consists in frying them. The lard, 
butter, or dripping must be sweet, fresh, and hot, as for fish. Beat 
two eggs, and stir them, with a little salt, into three tablespoonsful 
of flour [or allow an egg to each spoonful of flour,] add, by degrees, 
a pint of new milk ; and beat it to a smooth batter. Make a small 
round frying-pan quite hot, put a piece of butter, or lard, into it, and, 
when it has melted, pour it out and wipe the pan ; put a piece more 
in, and when it has melted and begins to froth, pour a ladle or tea- 
cupful of the batter in, toss the pan round, run a knife round the 
edges, and turn the pancake when the top is of a light brown ; 
brown the other side ; roll it up, and serve very hot. Before it is 
rolled up, some people spread currant jelly lightly over, or orange 
or apple marmalade. Cream, and more eggs may be used to make 
the pancakes richer. A little brandy, or peach water is an inprove- 
ment. Serve with white wine sauce. Lemon should be on the 
table as some people like to flavor pancakes with the juice.. A^i.'ji.t 



'- GUIDfi FOR THE MILMC^ 109 

Meceipts. .a,|j»f»,t|% |^r 

Aftple BVead. — Take good sweet apples pared and cored, and stew 
to a pulp, then while yet warm add double their weight of flour, the 
usaal quantity of yeast for making common bread is to be added ; put in 
a proper vessel and allow to rise eight to twelve hours, then bake in 
long loaves. If tbe^fippl/SavSEfe goip^^,Mii4«ft(epJii»PJ»^ater will be neces- 
sary for the mixing. Iff ^ IhiW >)r!!(i V r.qjj;) ,1 ';.'-,'; lifio-ui tik?' 

Apple l$iiilll>ltng^$i. — Choose six or eight good sixed baking apples 
pare them, roll out some-good paste, divide it into as many pieces as you 
have apples ; roll and cut two rorrrid^ from each, put an apple on one piece 
and put the other aver; join the edges neatly, tie them in cloths, and boil 
them. 

Apple Pie. — Kussetiilgs, ribstone pippins, and such other apples as 
have a little acid, are the best for baking. Pare, core, and slice the apples, 
throwing them into cold water to prevent their turning black, sprinkle 
sugar between, as you put them into the pie dish, also a little pounded 
cinnamon and cloves. Some slices of quince are a great improvement, 
or quince marmalade, or candied orange peel. Put a strip of paste round 
the edge of the dish, and cover with a rich light paste, 

Apple or Peach Puddingy Plain.— Take stale bread and 
soak thoroughly in water ; squeeze out the surplus water and work into 
a kind of paste, and having buttered a dish lay the bread paste on the 
bottom and sides of the dish, and put a thin layer of butter over the 
whole surface. Prepare some apples or peaches by paring, slicing and 
then add a lump of butter, some fine loaf sugar and some grated 
orange or lemon peel ; make a cover of some of the bread paste, buttering 
tlie under side and place over all. Now cover it with a plate reversed, 
put a weight upon to keep the frtiit down and bake in a slow oven two 
hours. Take off the weight and plate aud'bake another hour. 

Apple Tart.-— Pare, core, and cut the best sort of baking apples in 
small pieces, and lay them in a dish previously lined with a puff-crust; 
strew over them pounded sugar, cinnamon, mace, nutmeg, cloves, and 
lomon peel chopped small, then a layer of apples, then spice and so on 
till the dish is full, pour over the whole a glass and a half of white wine. 
Cover it with puff-crust, and bake it. When done, take off the crust and 
mix in with the apples two ounces of fresh butter, and then pour in two 
eggs well beaten ; lay the crust on again, and serve either hot or cold. 
You may add pounded almonds and a little lemon juice. 



m 



MINE OP WEALTH; AND, 



Ai»p!c Toa§t Piaddiiig^. — Cut toasted white bread into squares 
!!i« .-ize of the palm of the hand and cross-wise in slices. Butter the toast 
OJid place alternately edgeways in a buttered baking dish sprinkle over 
tlie whole some white sugar and half coTer with hot water. Bake quickly 

,,aittj^rv,e^ without sauce. 

^fS^'i^tVl'OOt Blancmangre. — Take four good tablespoonsful of 
Riruwi-oot ; have four breakfast cups of milk well spiced, add a little ratifia 
and some isinglass to it, and when quite boiling pour it over the arrow- 
root t^^iring• ([uickly all the time; put into a mould and when cold turn it 
out ^nd serve with preserves and cream. 

Jl'i^*oWfi'Ool Breakfast Cakes. — Mix together two cups of 
arrowroot, half a cup of flour, and a tablespoonful of salt butter, an egg 
and as much milk or water as will bring it to the consistency of paste ; 
roll it out, and cut with a breakfast cup, and put the cakes upon a baking 
iron: a few minutes will bake them; split and butter them and send 
tlicm to table hot. 

As*r»wro»t for Sick Persons. — Mix a spoonful or two of 
arrowroot in double the quantity of cold water, then pour on boiling 
w:ilcr slowly until it changes color, and it becomes transparent, then 
put on the fire and boil gently three minutes ; sweeten to the taste, adding 
a iittle cinnamon or grated nutmeg to make it more palatalDle, and wine 
:9r, Urandy if necesary. 

*<i^A*'rf?««''i*«>ot Fiiddatlj^. — Take four tablespoons of sifted arrowroot, 
frtTid pdt into a basin breaking four eggs into it; rub them together until 
smooth, then pour over three quarters of a pint of boiling milk, mixing it 
well whilst pouring on the milk. If it comes to the consistency of a thick 
custard it is properly done; butter a mould pour your padding into it, tie 
It i.i a towel and put it into a pot of boiling water — let boil one hour. 
Sliould the milk not make it thick enough pour the mixture into a pan and 
hold it over the fire until it thickens, and then proceed as above. The 
sante wiJ^ture can be made-with the addition of a little spice, butter and 
Mi^;u-, and baked in an oven. 

£}!il*e?l <iJoa§eberry Pudding.— Scale the fruit, and when quite 
W^-^lui*, rub it through a sieve, and sweeten to taste with browu sugar, 
aii'lt a quarter of a pound of butter in some cream, beat the yolks of six 
tind the whites of three eggs, grate alittle lemon peel, and mix the whole 
Well to,!?ether, adding a little brandy if you wish it highly flavored, 
liake in a dish lined with puflf paste. . j, , / 



Qltm^ FdS THE MILLlOS'. » 111 

Batter Pudding.— Mix well together the whit^^ tod' yollcs- of 
three eggs well beaten, three salt spoonsful of flour Which must be 
worked in gradually and in small quantities. Work in one pint of milk 
with a little salt and boil in a niould or basin tied up in a cloth. Tt will 
require one hour's boiling. The mould or basin should be well filled. 

BisCHits^ ©evilled. — Butter pilot's biscuits, or any similar kind, 
on both sides, and pepper them well ; then make a slice of good clieese 
into a paste, and lay it on one side of each biseuit ; spice with cayenn^e 
pepper and grill them. '«!«» bamd da^^ lo itt'iq a "iiad ; /;,;niiiM j N> lijsti 

BisCBBlts, gpOBlg-e. — Add the whites and yolks of twelve eggs, pr^- 
viously well beaten, to one and a half pounds of finely powdered sugar, 
and whisk it until it rises in bubbles, then add one pound of flour and 
the rind of two lemons grated. Form them into shapes, sift a little sugar 
over them, and bake them in buttered tin moulds, in a quick oven for 
one hour. 

Barley Foddsngr* — Take a pound of pearl barley well washed, 
three quarts of new milk, one quart of cream, and a half a pound of 
double refined sugar, a grated, nutmeg, and some salt; niix them well to- 
gether, then put them into a deep pan, and bake it ; then take it out of the 
oven, and put into it six eggs well beaten, six ounces of beef marrow, and 
a quarter of a pound of grated bread ; mix all well together •, then put it 
into another pan, bake it again, and it will be excellent. 

UlastClSl'iiiilgre. — Milk, one quart; isinglass or calves feet jelly, 
one ounce ; sweet almonds, one dozen ; bitter almonds half a dozen ; loaf 
sugar, half a pound ; cream, four tablespoonsful ; grate the ahnoiuls and 
then boil the whole together until of a. proper thickness; when cold, add 
one or two tablespoonsful of rose-water, before letting it cool; when 
nearly cold pour into the moulds previously rubbed with a little salad 
oil. 

B!ancmam§^e, B-ice. — Ground rice, two ounces; milk, one pint I 
Lump sugar, three ounces; a little lemon peel and cinnamon. Dis.solve 
the rice in the milk by boiling, reduce it toa proper consistence, then add 
the spice and sugar, boil for one minute, strain, and when nearly-. cold, 
mould as before. The powdered rice must be rubbed up with a little cold 
water before adding it to the milk, to prevent lumps. 

BSaiaciBiatlg'e, We§t laidia. — Make a jelly with arrowroot, apd 
to every pint when nearly cold add a glass of sherry, a spoonful each of' 
brandy and orange flower water, and two bunches of lump sugar. Moni'i 
AS before. ,; . :^ j9ia*i ^ninr; i, vf 

.donj'^ ! > qoJ 



\i2 ^£1NE Of .WEALTH; ANI>, 

CSread PuddSiig^.— Cut.two or three French T0II9 in sHres^ and 

soak them in a pint of cream or good milk; beat up the yolks of six ea;ga 
jvith them, and add sugar, orange-flower water, three pounded maca- 
roons, and a glass of white wine ; tie it up in a basin of buttered cloth, let 
the water boil when you put in the pudding, and boil it for half »n hour. 
Serve with wine sauce. 

Drown Bread Pllddan^. — Mix well together half a pound of 
dried bread crumbs, and the same weight of beef suet ; one pound nnd a 
half of currants ; half a pint of fresh bread crumbs ; a large spoonful of 
sugar ; the yolks of six andthe whites of three eggs, and havingseasouod 
it with nutmeg and cinnamo^ij:^ hoi^ i^t for iWQ ^o^s, It may be serv^ 
with or without sauce. , -, , ,f ». i ..; '..,..;-, ^j . ,» 

Bains. — One pound of flour, six ounces of butter, two teaapoonsful of 
baking powder, a quarter of a pound of sugar, one ef^^, nearly -a quarter 
of a pint of milk, a few drops of essence of lemon. Bake immediately. 
This receipt will make twenty-four buns. 

Buns, Eng^lisll. — Flour, two and a half pounds ; sifted white sugar, 
half a pound, a little mace, cassia, and coriander seed powdered fine ; then 
make a paste with half a pound of butter, dissolved in half a pint of hot 
milk, work in three tablespoonsful of yeast and a little salt; set it before 
the fire for an hour to rise, then make it into btins and again set them 
before the fire on a tin for half an hour ; lastly brush them over with 
warm milk, and bake them to a nice brown in a moderate oven. 
• Buns, Family. — Flour, two pounds ; well washed currants, balf 
a pound ; butter, a quarter of a pound ; sugar, six ounces ; a little salt, 
powdered caraway and ginger ; make a paste with four spoonsful of yeast 
and warm milk a sufiicient quantity, and finish as for English buns. 

Buns, iTIadeira. — Butter, eight ounces ; eggs, two ; flour, one 
pound ; powdered sugar, six ounces ; half a nutmeg grated ; powdered 
ginger and carraway seeds, each one teaspoonful ; work well together, 
then addsherry wine, one glassful, and as much milk as required. Bake 
in tin's in a quick oven. 

Buns, Tea. — Warm and dried flour, three pounds ; powdered sugar, 
one pound ; butter, two and a half pounds, melted and beat up with foar 
ounces of rose water ; form into a light paste, tvith three quarters of a pint 
of yeast, and place it for an hoar to rise, then add a little candied lemon 
and orange peel, and one pound of currants, and make the whole into 
buns; set them Iwfore the fire for forty minutes, then wash them over 
with milk, and put a little graced peel and a few caraway comfits on the 
top of each. 



GUIDE FOR THE MlLtlOIf. 113 

Cakes, Almond. — Sweet blanched almonds, flottr and powderea 
sugar, each one quarter of a pound , seven eggs and the outside peel of 
four lemons shredded very small. Pound the almonds until they are 
very smooth, adding gradually the sugar and the lemon peel, add the 
eggs, and beat the whole until it becomes as white as sponge paste ; next 
add the flour, work well, put into well buttered moulds, and bake in a 
slack oven with eight or ten thicknesses of white paper under them and 
one over. ;;; j] ■:',-■,:, .. i-t a:,j js 'Utnl iua— ■.;■ 

Cakes Banbury. — Wc^fc' one pbdnd of butter into the same 
weight of dough, made for white bread, as in making puflf paste, then 
roll it out very thin, and cut into oval pieces, or as the cakes are wanteds 
Mix some good brown brandy, then put a little upon each piece of paste !j 
dose them up, and place them on a tin with the closed side downwardsjl 
and bake them. Flour some powdered sugar with candied peel, grated 
or essence of lemon, and sift a little over the cakes as soon as they cox»e,_ 
out jpf the oven. m 

Cake, Bath. — Mix well together, half a pound of butter, one 
pound of flour, five eggs, and a cupful of yeast; Set the whole before 
the fire to rise, which done, add four ounces of finely powdered sugatr 
and one ounce of caraways. Roll the paste out into little cakes. \ Bs^e 
t^em on tins. > 

' Cakes, Cheese. — Curdle some new milk previously warmed with 
rennet, drain the curd in a linen bag, then beat it as fine as butter, and 
add one fourth its weight, each of sugar and butter ; six eggs, sonae 
grated nutmeg, and a little orange flower or rose water. Work ib^. 
wtiole well together, make into cakes of the desired size and ba-ke in r% 
moderate oven. 

Cake, GiVkgev, — Make a paste with one pound of sugar, four 
ounces of powdered ginger, two pounds of flour, one pint of milk or 
water, half a pound of butter, and three ounces of candied orange peel, 
grated ; form them into cakes and pick them with a fork before baking. 

Cakes, Plain. — Flour, four pounds; currants, two pounds; butter 
half a pound ; caraway seed, a quarter of an ounce ; candied lemon peel 
grated, one ounce ; four eggs ; wet it up with milk, and" half a. pint of ^ 
yeast. Let it rise well before baking. 

Cake Pound. — Take equal parts 6f sugar, fl'our; currants and 
sultana raisins, and half that quantity each of butter, brandy, and candied 
peel, with such spices as may be desirable in the proportion as for 
Runnel's plum cake, and bake in a hot ov«n. 



liil MIN8: Of WBALTH.; AND, 

Cafbes, Icings Ibr. — Beat the white of two eggs to a Ml fm^:^h 
a little rose or orange flower water ; then add gradually as much finely 
IW.wdered sugar, as will make it thick enough, beating it well all the 
time. In using it, dust the cake over with flour, then gently rub' it offif 
lajTuOXi theJeing with a flat knife, stick in the ornaments while wet, an^ 
pi-ace it in the oyen a few minutes to. harden, but not long enough to. 
discolor. 

Cake, Plain Plum. — Mix half a pound of butter in three pounds 
of dry flour, and eight ouneesof finely powdered white sugar; add stoned 
raisins and currants, each three quarters of a pound, well washed and 
diied; some pimento finely powdered^ Make a dough of three spoons- 
ful of yeast and a pint of milk, well warmed, with the above, mixing in 
the fruit last. Make into a cake and bake on a floured tin half an houn. 

Cake, PlaiA Seed. — Mix one quarter of a peck of flour with half' 
a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of allspice, and a little gingery 
melt half a pound of butter with half a pint of milk ; when just warfli,- 
pH^.it to quarter of a pint of yeast, and work up to a good dough. Let 
it,§tand before the fire a few minutes, before it goes to the ovenj a^d 
8«^e(l3 or currants, and bake an hpur and, ,a .half., 

Cakes Ricit — Equal weights of flour-, butter, sultana raisins, 
eggs, currants, and brown sugar, mixed up with milk, and seasoned with^ 
candied peel, caraways, nutmeg and ia littlfl ginger, then batter ail, in 
fine powder. Bake in a quick .oven, ^..;'^' mot » n- ini v>.) :r^j ;> ,-t.ja^*'! 

Cake, Riiiuleirs Plwin.— Be^at one potind ef ft-fesh' batter -witirrw 
strong wooden fork until it resembles cream ; add one pound of sifted 
white sugar, and mix them very completely ; have ready the whites 
often eggs beaten, and pour them into the butter and sugar; then add 
th«-yolks of eighteen eggs, also well beaten and beat, theni; all up for ten 
minutes. Take one pound of flour two. ounces of pounded and sifted 
spices, namely, cloves, cinnamon, mace, nutmeg, and allspice, andanix 
them by degrees with the. other ingredients, then beat tfee-cak^ ten, 
minutes longer, and, when tljie oven is, ready, add one pound.,of currants 
foi^r ounces of sliced almonds,, half a pouijd of raisins, stoned and chopped,, 
■a^4 a large glass of brandy (if agreeable,). Bake the cake in a hot 
oven. When sufiicieutly baked, let the oven. cool and, afterwards put 
tJUfi cake .back in tbe.warn^,pv€n, ai^d allow it to remain sever^il hours.to 

(Cakc^ Hi* »Hnd«ll's, Spongy— Prepare ..eight eggs, three 
.quarters of a pound of lump si^gfn* ^^^^ ?• J?pW»4 of,flpu?,j quavJ:iQr oJ[;<»,pin.tt 



of water, and the juice of a lemon iad'yiitiidg folfows:^ — Overnight pare a 
good sized lemon thin and put the peel into the water'; when about tO 
make the cake, put the sugar into a; saucepan, pour the water and lemon 
peel into it, and let it stand by the fire to get hot. Break the eggs into a 
deep earthen vessel that has 12feen made quite hot; whisk the eggs for a 
few minutes with a whisk that has been well soaked in water; make the 
sugar and water boil up and and pour it boiling hot over the egg^; coii- 
tinue to whisk them briskly for about a quartier of an- hour or until ^#^* 
become quite thick and white^ which is a proof of their lightness. Have 
the flour well dried and quite warm from the fire, then stir lightly in, ppt, 
the cake into tins lined with White paper and bake them immediately in 
a modei'ately hot oven. n j.j' ^ 

CaiiCSj X<eision oi*' Oratllgfr.^I1our arid' sii'^al**, 6f' eiW oii^ 
pound ; eggs, one dozen; grated peel or juice of four leifloiis oi" orangi^^'j 
whisk the eggs to a high froth, then gradually add the- rest. B«lke iit»^ 
small oval tins, well buttered, and place six thicknesses of paper beneath- 
each tin. Thinly ice them. 

Gakes S^da.— Flour, one pound ^ bicarbonate of soda, one quarter of 
ati ounce ; sugar and butter, each half a pound ; curt-'sints, three qiiartei-S 
of a pound; make a paste with milk, and add candied oi'iiiftgej-lenibrittf"' 
citron peel, or the fresh peels grated, according to' fancy. . 

Cake Scotch. — :Butter and sugai', each half a pound;: nifie^^ggSf- 
beat up the eggs, then mix well together, and add a little citinamon/- 
grated nutmeg, and cloves ; carraway seeds, a quarter of an ounce; 
candied citron, one pound; candied orange peel, three quarters of a 
pound; and blanched almonds half a pound, pOiltid^d litie^'niix'w^U then 
add flour three pounds^ and brandy one four-th of- a piht.' ' Work' tbip'*" 
whole well and bake. ' ' 

CakeSj Tipsy. — Steep small sponge' cak^s id bratldj^^ tfefeii covllr*' 
them with graied almonds and candied peel; onaliiionds'dtt^yto "felirtfis 
and stuck in them ; pile them in a dieh, surround thettl with a custard/i^ 
and cover theni with preserves, drained ' as di^y>'as possible! 

Cream Cake*— The whitesof three eggs,' a drop of essence'of l^mon, 
and as much powdered- sugar as wttl thicken ; whisk' thfe- White to & 
dryfrot'h, then add thesugaf; a teaspOonftilJafa time, until it is as thick 
as very thick batter; Wet'asheie^taf whit^pap^fj^place'Sii Si'ti"n, aifld'drOp 
the egg and sugar, oa it ia lump$ abtwit as bi§ aS' a f^xr^MUt ; sef th)feM'iff'a 
cool oven and BO s<GOfl aS' th« sag4riai hsorden^dj t^^th^em out ; remove' 
from the paper with** bread ■bladtedkbifo/5pljli^4Bfe'^^lfttrf^bf't1ir8 tdgetttST 
and place oa a sieve ia a cool oven to dry. 



116 MINE OF WEALTH: AND, 

*^* It is of the last importance before proceeding to the mak- 
ing of Cakes or Fancy bread that the various articles required 
for the purpose should be prepared some short time before nt\d^nl. 
As soon as they are ready they should, be placed upon u iitove ot.^ 
near a fire so as to become gently heated, without which it is itnpo.s- 
sible to obtain good results. The flour should be well dried andihiv- 
roughly warmed, the fruit or other article washed, powdered, graf^e/f 
or cut up fine, as may be required, and dusted over with ;i liitic 
flour and also set before the fire : the sugar rubbed to a fine i>o\vdei;. 
the eggs well beaten and strained, the butter melted by being phicudn 
in a basin set in hot water and afterwards well beaten up with :i little 
milk, lemon cut very thin and beaten in a mortar to a paste or powder 
with lump sugar, the caraways, ginger and other similar fluvoring 
ingredients prepared as a fine powder, and the milk and water well 
warmed. All these things should be put into a pan in their proper 
order and well beaten up, as the lightness of the cakes depend a good 
deal upon this. A little yeast is a great improvement in various 
kinds of cakes. Good stale bread well soaked in hot milk or water 
then beaten to a paste and passed through a fine sieve forms an excell- 
ent article to mix up the ingredients with and produces a light and 
very nutritious cake. 

Cring^er Bread IVuts. — One pound of flour, rubbed iu a quarter of 
a pound of butter, three quarters of a pound of white powdered suj,^ar, one 
ounce of grated ginger, and the peel of a lemon. Let the articles be 
well worked in together, and bake in a slow oven. 

Good Rusks. — Take a piece of bread dough, large enough to till a 
quart bowl, one teacup of melted butter, one egg, one teaspoonful of sal- 
eratus ; knead quite hard, roll out thin, lap it together, roll to the thick- 
ness of thin biscuit, cut out with a biscuit mould and set to rise in a 
warm place, (unless self-raising flour is us^ed when bake as soon as' 
mixed) twenty to thirty minutes will be suflBcient. Bake them and dry 
thoroughly, and they are an excellent rusk to eat with cofiFee. 

Ciround Rice Puddingy. — Grind half a pound of rice into a fiile 
powder and work smoothly into a small quantity of fresh milk, boil a 
quftrt of milk and beat iato it smoothly the rice as prepared. Let it cool 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 117 

and then add the whites and yolks of six or eight eggs well beaten up, ^ 
few bruised almonds, some nutmeg, cinnamon, and grated orangfe peel. 
It may be baked in a buttered dish for three quarters of an hour in a quick 
oven or boiled in a bowl tied up in a cloth, for the same time. 

Flaked Crust fi>P Tart. — Mix a pound of flour with a little salt 
and add sufficient water to make it into a paste of medium consistency, 
neither very thick nor very thin. Let it stand for two hours ; roll out the 
paste, place in the centre a piece of butter nearly equal in weight to the 
quantity of flour used, double the paste over the butter, and roll it out to 
the thickness of about a quarter of an inch, fold it into three, and having 
strewn a little flour between the folds roll it out again ; repeat this 
operation four or five times and the crust is completed. * 

Fritit Cake. — Mix one pound of butter and one of sugar to a 
cream, then beat in twelve eggs, yolks and whites separately; work in 
two pounds of stoned raisins, two pounds of currants, one pound of 
fine chopped citron, and as much spice as is liked in flavoring, one glass 
of brandy and one of wine. When all these ingredients are well mixed 
then work in last one pound of finely sifted flour; beat the whole well up 
and bake four hours in a slow oven. 

JLigrht Currant Dniliplin§;s. — For each dumpling take three 
tablespoonsful of flour, two of finely chopped suet, three of cui-rants, a 
pinch of salt, and as much milk as will make a thick batter of the ingre- 
dients. Tie in well floured cloths and boil an hour 

macaroni Puidding'* — Take an ounce or two of the pipe sort of 
macaroni, and simmer it in a pint of milk, and a bit of lemmon-peel and qin,- 
namon, till tender ; put it into a dish, with milk, three eggs, but only one 
white, some sugar, nutmeg, a spoonful of almond-water, and half a glass of 
raisin wine; lay a nice paste round the edge of the dish, and put it in the 
oven to bake. If you choose you may put in a layer of orango-marma- 
lade, or raspberry-jam; in this case you must not put in the almond- 
water, or ratafia, you would otherwise add too much flavor to it. 

Mew Year's Rich Fruit Puddingr- — Seedless raisins,, one 

and a half pounds ; currants, one pound ; figs, chopped coarse, one pouiKl; 
stoned prunes and dates half a pound each ; citron, four ounces ; lomvi) 
peel, one ounce; cinnamon, half an ounce ; mace, a teaspoonful ; whx 
all the above together well. Beat up one dozen eggs, whites and yoH.x 
separately, then mix, and add to, and work well into the folio win ;^^ 
best self-raising flour two pounds; suet well picked and chopped fine, one 



X^ MII{JB or WKALTH ; AND, 

poitad ; white crushed sugar, one .and a half pounds ; now work in the 
iftixed fruits rapidly, and put the whole into a pudding cloth, allowing 
^piple room to swell and put into a large boiler of water, and allow one 
hour for each pound in weight. Turn it every fifteen minutes of the 
first two hours ; on taking from the holier dip it in cold water two or three 
times before removing from the cloth. Serve with sauce to please the 
taste. 

Panc^akes. — Make good batter, in the usual way with eggs, milk and 
ftour ; pour this into a pan, so that it lays very thin ; let your lard, or 
whatever else you fry them in, be quite hot. WLen one side is don&, 
toss it up lightly to turn it. Serve with lemon and sugar. 

Peach liCaves. — Boil peach leaves in milk and add it to the other 
ingredients in making puddings, and a better flavor is obtained than 
with any spice. Experience will teach the necessary number. 

Plain Rice Pllddiil^. — Take four large spoonsful of well washed 
rice, and boil it in a pint of milk uptil it thickens, add then a small lump 
of butter jind give one boil to dissolve and spread, the J^utter; let cool 
tfeen mix in the yojks of six and the whites pf three eggs well bx^atep, 
sugar, nutmeg and grated lemon to please the taste. .^Jijatt^r €up^, tbre« 
parts fill them, and bake half an hour in a slow oven. 

Plain Plum P|idlllnL»* — Take .of sifted flour, suet, butter, 1o^f 
^ugar, raisins, (stonetl,) -and currants, one pound each ; ten eggs, beat up 
separately, the whites |.o a froth, and th^n mi;£ with the yolks, cinnamoi;, 
cloves and nutmeg to please the taste, and one ounce of candied lemon 
peel. The suet must be chopped up "fine and then mixed in well with 
the flour, rub the sugar and butter together and add them, then the eggs, 
cinnamon, &c., and lastly raisins and currants by alternate handsfull 
having first sprinkled them with a little flour. Now add about four 
ounces of yeast (unless self-raising flour is used) and set the whole in a 
warm place for about twelve hours — then put into a clean pudding bag 
or cloth, and boil one hour for every pound it weighs. 

Plum Cake (Rich). — Rub together one pound each of fresh 
butter and white sugar, now work in one pound each of candied citron and 
of orange peel finely cut up and chopped, one quarter of an ounce of 
allspice, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, two ounces of sweet almonds 
ten eggs, and a glass of brown brandy ; work the whole well and then adS 
and thoroughly mix one pound of best sifted flour. Bake in a hot 
>ven with a sufficiency of paper under it to keep from burning. It yiiV 
require three hours baking. 



Pblka Pudding'. — Mix four tablfespooiifeful of arrowroot in a 
J^int of cold milk ; beat four e^j^sw6ll,' add them with three ounces of 
fresh butter cut in small bits ; a few drops of essence of lemon or ratafia 
a dessert-spoonful of rose water, and a teaeupful of sugar; boil a quart 
of milk in a saucepan and when boiling stir in the other ingredients, 
without taking the pan off the fire; let it feeil u'ntil thick, then poup 
into a mould to cool. " - 

Pineapple Custard.— Strain ttrcfe-'wfce^'glassesful of pineappU; 
juice through a fine sieve; beat hine '^ggs yolks and whites, strain tliem 
also and add them to the pineapple juice, with a quarter of a pound of 
powdered loaf sugar, a glass of white wine, and half a wine glass of 
water, 'With a little grated lemon peel. Mix all together, and ptit all tbe 
ingredients into a saucepdn 6n the fire, "Stirring it ii-ntil it becomes th'ick- 
and of a proper consistence. i . 

Raspberry Biscuit. — ^Select fine clean raspberries and "boiltb a 
pulp; take the fruit off the fire and add an equal weight ofpbwdei-ed whito 
sugar. Stir well until all the sugar is dissolved, when pour the paste on 
tins to dry. \A.s 'soon as the'top ^urfacfe'fs d'fy cttt-ihe paste intt) cakes, 
of different sizes and shapes, and' dr^y them in a slo^ oven until they are 
crisp; put in tin boxes, and keep in a dry place for use. 

tS.ice Custard. — Sweeten a pint of milk with loaf sugar boil it with 
a stick of cinnamon, then use sifted ground rice till qiiite thick. Take 
it off the fire; add the whites of three eggs well beaten; Stir it again for 
two or three minutes, then put into cups that have lain in cold water ; do 
not wipe them, when cold tui^n them btit, and put them into the dish ih 
which they are to be served ; pour ronnd them a custard made of the 
yolks of the eggs, and a little more .than a half a pint of milk, put on the 
top a little red currant jelly, or raspberry jam. A pretty supper dish. 

Rainaldns. — Scrape a quarter of a pound of Goshen cheese, add a 
quarter of a pound of butter, then beat all in a mortar with the yolks of 
four eggs and the inside of a small French roll boiled in cream or milk 
till soft. Mix the paste with the whites of the eggs previously beaten, 
bake in a Dutch oven till of a fine brown color; they should be ei^teii 
quite hot. Some like the addition of a glass of \vl^ite wine. 

Rhubarb l^OOl. — Scald a quart or more of rhubarb, nicely peejed, 
and cut into pieces an inch long, pulp through a sieve, sweeten, and lot 
it stand to cool. Put a pint of cream, or neW milk, into a Stew-pan with a 
stick of cinnamon, a small pie'Ce of I'eiiion-peel, a feWtilov^es, coriander 
seeds, and sugar Ito taste; boll'Mn naiidtes. '^^i tiJ)'thV yolks of four 



VI^ MINE OF WEALTH; AND, 

t^.irsrh. and a little flour, stir into the cream, set over the fire till it boils^ 
sjiir'H}; all the time ; remove, and let it stand till cold. Mix the fruit and 
crcain togethei', and add a little grated nutmeg. 

USajyiiie, Charlotte. — Mix with the yolks of four eggs, a quartor 
oj a. pound of powdered sugar, and add to this half a pint of new milk; 
jKit it over the hre till it begins to thicken like custard, but do not let it. 
boil ; then add half pint of very thick calves foot jelly strain it through a 
nepkin ; put it in a pan placed on ice. A pint of very thick cream, fla- 
vored or not as you like, and whip it until it looks like float — -pour the 
cream into another dish, and pour the custard in the pan on the ice. 
Stir it on the ice with a paddle, until it becomes thick like jelly ; then add 
the cream very lightly. The mixture should look like light sponge cake 
Ixifore it is baked. A round tin pan must prepared with sponge cake called 
ladies' fingers, placed around the bottom very evenly and closely ; pour 
the Charlotte into it, and place it on the ice until wanted. When wanted 
put a round dish or plate on it, and turn it out, the bottom will then be 
at the top, and no cake at the bottom. 

.*»agO Pudsiin^. — Boil two ounces of sago with some cinnamon 
and a bit of lemon-peel, till it is soft and thick ; mix the crumbs of a 
sniiill roll finely grated, with a glass of red wine, four ounces of chopped 
marrow, the yolks of four eggs well beaten, sugar according to taste; 
when the sago is cold, add this mixture to it ; stir the whole well to- 
gether, and put it in a dish lined with a light puff paste ; and set it in a 
moderate oven to bake ; when done, stick it all over with citron cut in 
jHcces, and almonds blanched and cut in slips. 

^,j.,Or, Boil two ounces of sago until tender, in a pint of milk; when 
cold, add five eggs, two biscuits, a little brandy, and sweeten according 
to taste; put this into a basin and boil. Serve with melted butter 
mixed with wine and sugar. 

Or, Wash half a pound of sago in several waters (warm) ; then put it 
into a saucepan with a pint of good milk, and a little cinnamon ; let it 
boil till thick, stirring frequently ; pour it into a pan, and beat up with 
it half a pound of fresh butter ; add to it the yolks of eight, and whites 
of four eggs beaten, separately, half a glass of white wine, sugar accord- 
ing to taste, and a little flour ; mix all together well and boil. Serve 
with sweet sauce. 

Sip|?et Pudding'. — Cut a small loaf into extremely thin slices, and 
put a layer of them at the bottom of a dish, then a layer of marrow, or 
Lecf-suct, a layer of currants, then a layer of bread again, &c., and sp 



GBflDE FOR THE MILLION. 121 

continue until the dish is filled ; mix four eggs, well beaten, with a 
quart of eveam, a nutmeg, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and pour over; 
&ex, it in the oven, it will take half an hour baking. 

^paeiisSB Fratlers. — Cut the crumb of a French roll into square 
lengths half an inch thick; mix nutmeg, powdered cinnamon, sugar, and 
an egg together. Soak the roll in the mixture, and fry a nice brown. 
Serve with wine sauce. ■^ 

Stra^vfoerry Cake. — Take two quarts of flour, and rub in sibont 
two ounces of butter, a little salt, two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, 
and in a little milk; dissolve one teaspoonful of soda, add this to the 
flour and as much more milk as will make it a dough. Bake in a flat 
dish, and when done, and while hot split in two ; spread both sides with 
butter: sprinkle on a little sugar, spread on fresh ripe strawberries, then 
niorfei sugar, on one half, and place the other over it. A little sweet 
cream poured over the whole, enhances this delicacy. This must be 
eaten hot. 

The Philadelphia Raspberry and the Lawton Blackberry, can be used 
in the same way but are inferior to the Strawberry. 

Soet F'ailldillg^. — Chop finely and pick carefully half a pound of 
beef suet, and work well into one pound of floiir, beat up the white, and 
yolk, of six eggs separately, then mix the whole together and add as much 
fresh milk as may be required to thicken properly. Flavor with a little 
powdered allspice, cinnamon and salt ; tie closely in a cloth leaving it room 
to swell and boil two hours. 

Sweetheart Pudcliiag.— Grate the crumb of stale bread, and hav- 
ing buttered a dish lay in a thick layer of the crumbs ; pare core and cut- 
up ten or twelve apples and put a layer of them with sugar on the crumbs, 
then alternate layers of crumbs and apples until the dish is full, putting 
a small lump of butter on top, and bake it in a moderately hot oven. 

Sweet Fota^oe PM€l€lin§'. — Boil the potatoes and mash them 
very smooth. To two cups full of potatoes add two cups of sugar, one 
of butter, one glass of brandy or wine, five eggs, one nutmeg and the 
grated rind of a lemon. Bake with an under crust. 

Tea Kiscuit.— One quart of flour, apinch of salt, and two teaspoons- 
ful of cream of tartar ; mix these together thoroughly whilst in a dry state; 
then dissolve a small spoonful of soda and a small piece of butter in a pint 
of milk and work the whole well together. Bake in a quick oven. 

Tea Cake, (French). — Rub two ounces of fresh butter with one 



122 ^liNB OF WEALTH; AN©, 

pound of flour, then add four tablespoohsful of warm Bdilk, one of yeast 
aad a beat up egg. Mix well and let rise near the fire, when risen make 
into cakes, place before the fire a short time then bake with a quick oven 
fifteen minutes. 

Victoria, Queen, Pudcling^. — Three sponge biscuits soaked in 
wine laid in the bottom of a glass dish ; then a pudding made as follows. 
A pint of milk, with the peel of a lemon stewed half an hour, then thicken 
with two spoonsful of ground rice and lump sugar ; when a little cold, add 
the yolks of four eggs ; butter a dish that will just hold it, then bake it 
sufficiently to turn out on the sponges, then cover it with jam, and over 

that a thick custard. 

f 

.^♦llfote. — When escences or oils are added to puddings, &a, always 
drop them on to a lump of sugar; if you attempt to put any oil in with- 
out so doing, it will not mix with the other ingredients, but float on the 
surface. 

— — - -s?! :{u'i 



Preserves, Jams, Jellies, cmd Marmalades. 

Fruits and Vegetables may according to age and condition be 
preserved. Two methods are employed, the one to secure an acid 
or sour result, the other saccharine or sweet result. The former 
plan yields what are familiarly known as Pickles, the latter Jams, 
Jellies, &c. The two processes demand a few separate remarks. 

In making pickles, a great many nonsenscial ideas have crept 
into formulas and complications of spice and mysteries in prepara- 
tion, have tended to introduce some of the most mischievous ingre- 
dients, as Dr. Hassall's great work on Adulterations abundftfltly 
proves. But the wise pickle maker will not be misled by receip^tS, 
because they are given inexpensive cook books; he will learn what 
does and what does not make the pickles — and leave out all else. 

The best pickles are the simplest in there manufacture — the bept 
lookiQg and the purest flavored — as well as most wholesome. u 

For instance let any one slice a bright well colored and hard red wJ6- 
bage, and sprinkle about two handsful of dry salt orer it, Uft'tiing 



GUIDE FOB THE MILI40|T. 123 

over occasionally till it is all salt-wilted ; all it then needs is enough 
good salt vinegar to cover it and it is a brilliant pickle, as far su- 
perior to the cooked preparations called "pickled cabbage," as can 
be imagined. If the taste is so perverted as to need spice and 
pepper, thej may be added, but they are out of place. This 
.simple rule is more or less applicable to all s«^;oalled Pickles. 

One word, however, on vinegar. Few understand that vinegar ic 
simply water-diluted acetic acid, and the different names given to 
vinegar, such as white wine, malt, cider, &c,, merely indicates from 
Wihat substance the acetic acid is extracted, and why different vine- 
gars have flavors. Vinegar that has no flavor but the acid is to be 
preferred, and if the weather be cold enough to freeze water slightly 
vinegar may be exposed in flat dishes, and the surface ice removed 
to give it strengthTH-rfoE.it is- pure and strong vinegar that make? 
good pickles, by a sour preservation. The other, or sweet process 
of making preserves, is equally simple, needing sugar only to effect 
all the delicious changes that Fruits undergo in the form of Pre- 
serves, which includes the whole fruit crystallized, the broken fi-uit 
of Jam, OT the , juiqe .oaly 3.3 p Jelli^. He^^ a word of counsel vi 
needed; the whitest sugar is not the best preserver, but strong tast- 
iag should not be used, as it spoils the delicacy of the fruit flavor. 

Porcelain dishes should be preferred to copper or brass, that is to 
say, iron ones with porcelain lining, and the fruit should be most 
carefully watched while cooking, skimmed and stirred frequently. 
Preserves cannot be hurried — ^must not be economised — and may 
not be neglected while over the fire. They must have their own 
time, their proper amount of sugar, and their own watchful attend- 
ance. Common tumblers covered with paper on which white of 
egg has been spread, makes the best vessels to keep them in, and a 
drjr ooqI closet to store them. Self sealing cans may be used by 
those preferring them. 



124 MIKE OP WEALTH; AND, 

•Apples J^tinflfed. — Take large apples, cut off the crown thick : — 
pcojp tho cores fill with mixed butter and sugar ; replace the crowns, 
ail 1 bivke with a little water in the dish. — 

Apple Fool. — Pi*el and core a number of apples and put them into 
ajar with sufficient sugar to make them palatable, and add a very small: 
quantitv of cider. Place the jar in a pot of water over the fire andconlinue; 
tin; heat until the apples become quite soft, then pass through a strainer, 
iiM milk and cream and sweeten with sugar to the taste. 

Bj*aBldyl*eaclftes. — Take four pounds of peaches and two pounds 
of powdered loaf sugar. Put the fruit over the fire in cold water; 
feimmer, but not boil, until the skins will rub off easily. Stone them if 
80 preferred. Put the sugar and fruit in alternate layers in the jars until 
fiiUnl, and then pour in sufficient white brandy to cover the whole. Cork 
tightly and put by for use. 

.Fassas. — All jams are made by boiling either pulped or bruised fruit 
over the fire along with certain proportions of loaf sugar, experience 
jilone dictating the proper quantities, until the mixture jellies, which can 
be ascertained bj- pouring a little on a cold plate. When arrived at that 
condition the semi-fluid mass should be passed through a coar.se hair 
sieve while hot, to remove the stones and skins of the fruit, and then 
poured into p6ts or glasses. 

ISlue PImmi. — Take eight dozen fully ripe blue plums, stoned and 
pared or three and a half pounds of the pulp and three pounds of loaf 
sugar. Treat as above, rq imd edj ioa «i; iaa«a iaeiiHw f 

Cherry. — Stoned cherries, four pounds; white sugar, two and a half 
pounds ; red currants, fully ripe, two pounds. Treat as above. 

BlacEiberry. — Clearly picked and ripe blackberries, fifteen pounds; 
loaf sugar, twelve pounds; black currants, two pounds. Treat as 
above, 

<iTOOSetoerry. — Picked and stalked gooseberries, any color, twenty 
pounds , white sugar, twelve pounds. Treat as above. 

Plum.— To seven pounds of common blue plums add four pounds 
of sugar, one quart of vinegar, one tablespoonful of ground cloves and 
one of mace. Boil four hours over a slow fire stirring occasion- 
ally. Treat as above. 

Rafiipberry. — Picked raspberries and white sugar, each twelve 
pounds ; white or red currant juice one pint. Treat as above. li ■ 

Rhubarb — Boil gently together for three hours an equal weight of 



G^U)E.FOn ThK jmiiLJt^f. 125 

^yhite sugar and rhubarb stalks, with thcjuioe^and grated rind of a lemon 
to each pound of the fruit. When a strong flavor of the rhubarb is 
liked, omit the lemon-peel. 

Strairberry Jam is made similar to the Raspberry. 

Jellies.' — All jellies are prepared by first boiling the fruit and press- 
ing out the juice direct from the fruit which in most eases is better and 
boiling down with proportions of sugar, cai'efully removing the scum as 
it sibimers. The sugar should not be added until the juice begins to 
thicken. The whole process must be conducted with a gentle heat. 

Apple Jelly. — Strained apple' juice, four quarts; loaf sugar, five 
pounds. Boil to a jelly 

Cherry. — Cherries, six pounds ;' ^ater, one pint and a half ; bruise;, 
boil and strain, then add, sugar three pounds ; boil down until the liquid 
jellies. 

Curraiat. — Currant juice, six quarts ; loaf sugar three pounds. 
Boil as before. Black Currants in the same quantity will require five 
pounds of sugar. Blackberries, Gooseberries, Raspberries and Straw- 
berries are prepared in the same way and with the same proportions. 

liemoil. — Isinglass, four ounces ; water two quarts ; boil and add 
sugar two pounds ; clarify and when nearly cold, add the juice of one 
do^en lemons and the grated yellow rinds of three oranges and three 
lemons; mix well, strain off the peel and put into pots or glasses. 

3. — The grated rind and juice of four lemons, one box of Cox's gela- 
tine, a few whole cloves, pieces of cinnamon stick, and one pint of cold 
water. Let it stand an hour, then add three pints of boiling water, and 
one and three quarter pound of sugar. Strain into mould. 

f^raiftge. — Orange juice, two, qu,«w^t? ;J>nfuse in it the grated rinds of 
one dozen of the oranges for five or six hours; then strain and add loaf 
sugar, three pounds; isingjass eight ounces dissolved in twelve pints of 
water. Mix, boil down, put into glas^sesl^efore it cools. 

Marmalade, Oreen Gage. — Take off the skins, stone, weigh, 
and b&il quickly, without sugar for one hour keeping them well stirred ; 
then to every four pounds add three of finely powdered white sugar, and 
boil for six or eight minutes ; let cool and scum carefully before piitting in 
the jars. If the flesh of the fruit will not separate easily from the stones, 
boil the whole, pass through a sieve and deduct the weight of the 
stones before adding the sugar. A,ny good plums may be served in the 
name way. , 



126 MINE OF wealth;' 

.fiflsed. — Take equal parts of peaches, plums, pears, apples,' «c., and 
l»oi! them; down to a pulp; pass through a sieve and equal weight of 
loaf sugar; heat again sufficiently to dissolve and mix well in thte sugar 
and put in pots before it is cool. 

Qrangjei — Take equal weight of Seville oranges and loaf sugar; 
grate half the orange rinds, choosing the roughest parts and pour !)oiling 
water over them; cut the oranges into slices across and strain through a 
sieve; boil the ungraled parts of the skins until tender, then wipe them 
on the inside with a clean cloth, cut them into very thin slices, and let 
fhcra boil in the sugar, which should be previously clarified, until they 
are transparent, put in the orange juice and the water strained from the 
gratings and boil down together until it becomes a jelly which can be 
easily known by cooling a little on a plate or saucer. . 

^. — Boil the peelings of one dozen good well flavored oranges ii* 
sufficient syrup to cover them, until reduced to a pulp, then pass through 
a ^feff^ ; add the juice in which they were boiled, the juice of the fruit 
and as m«ch loaf sugar as is necessary to bring them to the required 
consistence. 

FeacSies, Economical i¥ay of Preserving irhole< — 

To fifteen pounds of cling-stone peaches, take seven and a half pounds 
of loaf sugar ; put two or three quarts of water in a preserving kettle* 
With one teaspoonful of pearlash to destroy the skin of the fruit. When 
the water is Hot throw in a few of the peaches and let them remain a(ew 
minutes ; take them out and wipe off the skins with a coarse towel, and 
then throw them into cold water. Take half the sup-ar, with as little 
water as possible to dissolve it; then put in a layer of peaches and let 
theiii boil twenty to thirty minutes ; take them out on a flat dish to cool. 
After I two or three layers have been boiled in this way the syrup will 
increase, then by degrees add the rest of the sugar. When all the 
peaohes are done, boil the syrup until it becomes a little' thick ; then add 
while in the kettle, half a pint of alcohol, which will cool and thicken it 
HLifficiently to put on the peaches which should be ready in the jars. 
Do not cover them until the next day. They will not have ^he least 
taste of the alcohol and are a very fine preserve. i < 1 '';*<» ^' 

Quince. — Equal parts of quince flesh or pulp and sugar, and }ialf<i»' 
pint of white wine. Gently evaporate until prepared. * " 

Scotch^i — Sweet orange juice, two qliatts; yellow peel of the frijit 
prated fiom eight oranges;^ honeys three pounds ; loaf sugar, two pouritl^.' 
lJ'>il to the required thickness. *' 



GUIDE FOR THE MILMOlTi IST' 

1©.|B Cream^ — The; following is excellent: — heat on6 quart of milk 
nearly scalding in a pan over boiling water^ then pour in three eggs well 
beaten^ one tablespoon even full of flour mixed with a little cold milk, 
a half saltspoonful of salt, and one half pound of sugar. Stir constantly 
until it thickens, then strain it. When cold add half a pint of cream and 
flavor to taste. ., ■ .. v ••- i 

I*r€§ervillg PeacheS.-^TakSB h'ailf ac pouifaTof Ltig'ai^'to ea'cfi'pf^S^ ' 
of pared, stoned, and quartered peaches. The sugar must be put into 
a preserving kettle with half a pint of water to every pound of sugar, 
heated to boiling point and carefully skimmed. Into this syrup th^ 
peaches are placed and boiled for ten minutes. Put them in cans, anltf 
seal up whilst hot. The peaches can be treated in the same way whole 
by simply paring them. 

Pickles^ Sauces^ Sc, 

AnchOTy ^aiice. — Two dozen anchovies chopped; butter one 
atid half pounds ; water, twelve ounces ; vinegar, six ounces; flour, six 
tat^lespoonsful ; stir the whole over the fire until it thickens, then rubj- 
through a coarse hair sieve ; when cool bottle close for use. , f 

Ct!0"^V CIiOW«— Half apQck of green tomatoes chopped not very 
fine, six green peppers,' and sprinkle over them ateacupful of salt. Let 
them drain well, and then, add a teacup of. grated horse-radish, a table- 
spoonful each of ground :,nin^ta,rd„ allspice, cloves, and ground pepperr 
Cover with good vinegar. 

Family I$i§h ojTRaw Tomatoes.— For a family of "half #^ 
dozen persons take six eggs, boil four of them hard, dissolve the yolks 
with' vinegar, add about three teaspoonsfnl of mustard, and mashaa- 
smooth as possible ; then add the two remaining eggs, raw, yolk and.;- 
white', well beaten up ; stir well and add salad oil to make altogether, 
sflitce enough to cover the tomatoes; add plenty of salt and cayenne 
pepper, and then beat the whole thoroughly until it frosts. Scald th^^^, 
to%at6es, skin ah^ cut them a full fourth of an inch thick and .pour the 
sauce over them, and the dish cannot be surpassed. 

IFJsh Sawce. — Twenty four anchovies ; ten shalots ;,^scraped horse 
radish, three tablespoonsful ; mace, and cloves, each one quarter of an 
ounce, two shired lemons; anchovy liquor, eight ounces; water, one pint;; 
Hock or' Hhenish wine, one bottle •, walnut ketchup,,halfT,»f{>i-iritij,, l»oiUo<»1 
t#0 and a half pounds, strain and bottle. 



1^ MINE OF WEALTH; AND, 

]?Ieat SailC€«— Sharp apples, pared cored, and tomatoes, salt, brown 
sugar ami stowed raisins, eacii eight ounces ; red chillies, and powdered 
ginger, each four ounces ; garlic and shalots, each two ounccH ; pound 
well and add vinegar three quarts and lemon juice one quart. Digest 
with frequent agitation for a month, pour the liquor clear from the sed- 
iment and bottle. The sediment of this forms the well known Chetney 
Sauce, which must be put into jars or pots, and corked close. It is used 
like mustard. 

PiceaSilSit — One bushel of tomatoes, three pints of oniom^, one 
quart .sharp popper, one pint grated horse-radish, one teacup groiim! mus- 
tard ; salt, cloves, cinnamon and alspice to the taste. Press* out the 
juice of the tonjatoes and boil in vinegar until tender. It is cheap, good, 
and wholesome. 

Pickled CllCllinbers. — Take thoroughly clean full cucumbers — ■ 
not ripe ones — and steep them for eight days in a strong solution of salt 
and water; pour it off, boil it a few minutes and then pour on the cucum- 
bers again ; let stand twenty-four hours then drain and dry them on a 
sieve. Put them into wide mouthed bottles or jars, and fill them up 
with .strong pickling vinegar, boiling hot, bung down immediately and 
tie over with bladder. As soon as thoroughly cold dip the corks into 
melted bottle wax. If desired, spice in any quantity and of any doscrip- 
tioti can be added either by boiling in a cloth with the vinegar, or by 
putting in the jars with the cucumbers before the vinegar is added. This 
gencKal recept will be found excellent also for the pickling of beans, toma- 
toes, onions, gherkins, mushrooms, green gooseberries, walnuts, melons, 
cauliflowers, lemons, peaches, &e. Only observing that the more deli- 
cate the article the less time it will require in the brine. 

Oyster J'iaiice. — Open the oysters carefully, so as to preserve their 
liquor ; beard and remove the tough parts, which stew in the liquor, 
adding sufficient water or veal-broth to make the proper quantity of sauce, 
and allow for evaporation of about one-half; when done, strain it off, and 
put it in a saucepan with the oysters, a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauee, 
and a good-sized piece of butter rolled in flour ; keep turning it round t9 
prevent the butter from curdling. 

1*J€ Lied Oysters. — Take orje hundred oysters with their liquor j 
put ihem into a kettle with a teaspoonful of salt; let them boil gently 
for half an hour, shaking the kettle frequently to prevent burning. Take 
the oysters out of the liquor and throw them into a vessel of cold water 
for a quarter of an hour to make them crisp and solid. Strain the liquor 



% ivuhich ih^y. were boiled, add a pint of sbari) viQei|^ar,^Q,d balf^n ounce 
of mace; let the liquor boil five minutes ; drain the oysters from the cold 
water and pour the liquor over them, and when half cold cover close. 

• Piekled Cucumberis and Onioii*.— Boil in tbj^ee pints of 
videgar, a quarter of a pound of flour of mustard, mixed as for table use; 
let it stand till cold. Slice a dozen large cucumbers, and a half a doaen 
large onions; put them into jars with two ounces Of ginger, half ail 
ounce of white pepper, and a small quantity of mace and doveiSj i^ifiid 
pour the vinegar, when cold, over them. Tie doWn dose. > ucU 

' "PiCibled Red Cabbag^e. — ^Qet afirm dai»k-eolored middling sizM 
Ctibbage, and, having cut out the stalk, divide the cabbage, and cutSt 
hrto slices of the breadth of narrow straws ; sprinkle salt over, and let 
lilB for two days ; then drain the slices very dry, and fill the jar, or jars, 
three parts full, and pour a hot pickle over them, of strong vinegar, 
Mrhieh has been heated, with' dtte proportion of blaok pepper, ginger, and 
allspice. Cover the jars to keep the steam in, and trhen the pickle is 
eolid, put in the bungs, and tie bladders over. 

Pickled Beet Root— There >'^6s<eteral species of beet root, 
which are used for different purposes. The wi\ite Sicilian beet, from 
yielding most saccharine matter, is, according to Burnett, chiefly culti-* 
Vited in Prance for the manufacture of sugar and spirit. Another kind 
of beet is grown extensively by farmers, called "mangel wurzel," which 
translated means "famine's root," but \<^hieh should more properly hav^ 
^'^aiae indicative of plenty, for many of the roots weigh twenty, thirty, 
ttiid even sixty pounds each. But we have to speak of the red beet, the 
beta vulgaris rubra of the botanists ; and the only thing we could d^giife 
respecting this plant is, that it mightin reality be what the botanists 
term it, vulgaris, or common, for a more nutritious esculent couAd 
scarcely be found when properly cooked, that is, boiled from one and «- 
hi^f to two and a-half hours, according to its size. To pickle beet roots, 
boil them till three parts done, then, when cold, peel them and cut them 
into thin slices; put the cut slices into a jar, and pour on them hot spiced 
vinegar, suflBcient to cover the whole. After they have stood a montli 
ask us to come and take bread and cljieeae >with you; put tlie pickled 
beet on tlie table, and there will be a supper "fit for a king." 

^Superior Sauce Piquante. — Brown vinegar, three quarts; to- 
matoes' juice boiled and strained, one quart, salt two ounces, mace, ali- 
8{>ice, ginger and nutmeg each one quarter of au ounce ; cloves andshalots 
each half a dozen ; cayenne pepper. Simmer the whole gently over the 
fire a few minutes, let stand for two weeks and then bottle. 



130 MIWK OP WEALTH; AND, 

To PreserTe Cucumbers, Crerkins, or jfIelon§.— Take 
large cucumbers, green, and free from seed, put thera into ajar of strong 
salt and water, with vine leaves on the top ; set them by the fireside 
until they are yellow ; then wash them, and set them over a slow fire 
in alum and water, covered with vine leaves, let them boil until tender, 
take them off, and let them stand in the liquor until cold ; then quarter 
them, and take out the seed and pulp : put them in cold spring water, 
changing it twice a day for three days. Have ready a syrup made 
thus: — to one pound of loaf sugar, have half an ounce of bruised ginger, 
with as much water as will wet it ; wh«n it is quite free from scorn, put 
in when boiling the rind and juice of a lemon; when quite cold, pour the 
syrup on the preserves. If the syrup is too thin, after standing two or 
three days, boil it again, and add a little more sugar. A spoonful of 
rum gives it the West India flavour. One ounce of powdered alum is 
suflScient for a dozen melons or cucumbers, or a proportionate quantity 
of gerkins. The vine leaves may be omitted, if not obtainable. 

Vinegar, Spiced. — For every pint it is intended to make, take 
cue ounce of black-pepper, half an ounce of salt, half an ounce of ginger, 
a quarter of an ounce of allspice, and if desired to be hot, add also, a 
quarter of a drachm of Cayenne, or a few capsicums. Bruise the whole 
of these materials in a mortar, and put them into ajar, or wide-mouthed 
green glass bottle, tied over with a bladder. Place this m a saucepan 
of water, and keep it hot for three or four days, shaking it now and then. 
If the maker has .an enamel saucepan, this operation can be facilitated 
by simmering the ingredients together. Spiced vinegar is used hot for 
walnuts and cold for cabbage. 

Tomatoes Bottled or Canned. — Procure the tomatoes as late 
in the season as possible and peel them whilst ripe and fresh. Season 
-with salt and pepper as if for immediate use. Put them in cans or 
bottles, cork them up leaving a hole in the centre of the corks, and then 
put them in cold water and set them over a fire and boil them twenty 
min«tes ; take them up, cork and seal them tight and keep for use in a 
cool -place. 

Tomato Catsup. — Heat the tomatoes until they become quite soft, 
and then pass them through a fine sieve. To six quarts of the juice add 
three quarts of first quality cider vinegar. Boil slowly and when it 
begins to thicken, add alspice, cloves, pepper, cinnamon, and mace, each 
half an ounee, and- of salt three tablespoonsful. Boil until reduced to tke 
proper thickpes&^^i*' '^^ '(mnii& .ih^,. U tLu^ 

Jlod tvjdi bam niwv owl i" . , t^ • 9iii 



GUIDE FOB THE MILLION. * 

To Pickle Onions. — Put tbe onions into cold salt water, let 
them stand all night ; boil the spice in white vinegar, let it remain till it 
is cold ; drain the onions well and pour the vinegar ovef ; they will be fit 
for use in a few days. ^^ ra^J sSi 

2. — Peel the onions till they look white; boil some strong salt water, 
and pour it over them ; let them stand in this twenty-four hours, keep 
the vessel closely covered to retain the steam ; after that time wipe the 
onions quite dry, and when they are cold, pour boiling vinegar, white 
ginger and white pepper over, them. Take care the vinegar always 
covers the onions. « iiro^ 

Tomato Soy. — One peck of tomatoes peeled, sliced, and sprinkled 
with a little salt; let them stand twenty-four hours, then pour off all tlie 
)uice; add to the tomatoes one quarter of a pound of mustard seed, one 
ounce each of ground pepper, cloves, and allspice, and twelve large, onions; 
cover the whole with good vinegar and boil twenty minutes. 

To PfiCkie Mangoes. — ^Take small musk-melons, cut out one piece 
large enough to remove all the seeds from the inside. Prepare a filling 
of scraped horse-raddish, whole mustard seed, sliced onions, wholje 
cloves, and allspice. Put this mixture into the mangoes and then put in 
the piece you have cut out, sewing it with coarse thread in its original 
shape. Pickle the same as other pickles. 

^^alnilt Ketctiup. — Thoroughly well bruise one hundred and 

twenty young walnuts ; put to them three quarters of a pound of salt, 
and a quart of good wine vinegar ; stir them every day for a fortnight j 
then strain and squeeze the liquor from them through a cloth, and set it 
aside ; put to the husks half a pint 9f vinegar, and let it stand all night: 
then strain and squeeze them as before, adding the liquor which is ob- 
tained from them to what was put aside the preceding day, and add 
to it ©ae ounce and a quarter of whole black pepper, forty cloves, half an 
ounce of nutmegs bruised, or sliced, half an ounce of ginger, and five 
drachnis of mace, and boil it for half an hour; then strain it off from the 
spices, and Ibottle it for use. 

To make Mustard — Take some of the best flour of imwstard and 
mix it, by degrees, to a proper thickness with boiling water, rubbing it 
extremely smooth ; add a little salt, and loosely cover, and only put as 
much into tbe mustard-pot as will be used in a few dafys 4 the mdgtord- 
pot should be daily wiped round-tbeedgea . ' , •. ., 



1^ ♦ MINE OF WEALTH ; AND, 

Artichokes. — Bdil the artichokes till you can pull the leaves od': 
take out the choke and cut away the stalk, but be careful that the knife 
doea not touch the top; throw them into salt and water, when they 
have lain an hour, take them out and drain them, then put thoin into 
glasses or jars, and put a little mace or sliced nutmeg between ; till 
them with Vinegar or spring water; and cover your jars clone, 

Asparag^US. — Cut and wash the green heads of the lai'gest aspar- 
agus ; let them stand two or three hours in cold water; scal(J them 
very carefully in salt and water, then lay them on a cloth to cool : make 
a pickle according to the quantity of your asparagus, of white wine 
vinegar and bay salt, and boil it. To a gallon of pickle put two nut- 
megs, a quarter of an ounce of mace, the same of whole white pepper, 
and pour the pickle hot over them ; cover the jar with a thick cloth, and 
let it stand a week, then boil the pickle ; when it has stood another 
week, boil it a third time ; when cold, cover the jar close. 

French Beans. — Lay them in salt and water for nine days, then 
add a little vinegar and boil them in the liquor ; when they become 
green, drain them, wipe them dry, and put the beans into a jar; boil 
some vinegar, mace, pepper, cloves, and mustard-seed, all bruised, and 
while hot, pour it on the beans ; cover them close when cold. 

Celery. — Separate the stalks from the head, clean them thoroughly 
and put them into salt and water strong enough to bear an egg, let them 
remain in this a week or ten days, or until wanted to pickle, then take 
tftkem out, wash them well in clear water, drain dry, place in a jar and 
pour boiling vinegar over, to which any approved spices may have been 
•dded. 

Crherkins. — Choose yoar gherkins very green and straight, brush 
and place a layer in a pan, sprinkle them with fine salt, then another 
Itfyer of gherkins, which sprinkle with salt also, and continue this oper- 
ation until you have used nearly a bushel of gherkins ; leave them in 
the s»lt for twenty-four hours, which will draw all the water from 
them ; at the end of that time, drain, and place them in a jar, with a 
handful of allspice, the same of tarragon, a little balm, ten shalots, aix. 
eloves of garlic, two or three long peppers, twenty cloves, a lemon cut in 
quarters, and two small bandfuls of salt. Boil two gallons of the best 
▼inegar, a second time, and pour it on again the following day ; boil the 
viiiegar for the third time, pour it over the gherkins^ and when quite 
«oid, cover the jar with a weifwrebmeat. 



OmPS FOB THi: HIliLION. 



CHAPTEE TV. 

, Milk — Tea — Coffee — Tapioca- — Sago^ &c. 

Many infants subsist entirely upon the milk of tke cow ; that 
n utritious fluid also forms a large portion of the diet of most young 
children, and in some shape or other enters into the daily food 
of almost every adult; it therefore becomes a matter of primary im- 
portance to determine whether milk, as supplied for the consumption 
of the public, is in a genuine state or not. 

If the testimony of ordinary observers, and even of many scien- 
tific witnesses is to be credited, there are but few articles of food 
more liable to adulteration (and this of the grossest descripti-ojy) 
than milk. ^ " v " v-^ ■. '■^^iin 

The relative proportions of the different constituents of cows milk, 
especially the fatty matter, are subject to very great variatioti. 
The age of the cow, the time after calving, food, temperature, and 
the time and frequency of milking, all occasion considerable di:^er- 
euce in the quality of milk. . >f>» 

A very large proportion of fhe milk used in some of our lai-ge 
cities was, until very recently, much deteriorated by the 'impmpfeir 
feeding of the cows, and the manner in which they were bound aiid 
confined. We regret to say that this practice still pre vails, to 
some extent in New York and other places. v/of/fty « 'to 

In a vitiated atmosphere, reeking with everything pernioibus 
to the health of the animal, the poor creatures are kept close shut 



18ii MINE OP WEALTH; AND, 

s 

up, night and day, till their milk failing, they are consigned to the 
butcher. 

Thanks, however, to our railroads, the greater portion of our sup- 
plies are now obtained from country dairies, and hence it is to be 
hoped that ere long, the practice of having and confining cattle in 
our cities will cease. 

The specific gravity of milk is usually determined by means of an 
instrument termed a lactometer. This is a graduated glass tube, 
weighted so as to float upright when immersed in any fluid, sinking 
deep in liquids of low specific gravity, and but little in those 
of high density ; the scale serves to show the exact density in 
degrees, contrasted with distilled water. In estimating then the 
quantity of milk, this instrument should be used for determining 
the density of either skim milk or, what is better still, the serum 
of milk, for numerous observations have shown that the density 
of these, when pure and genuine, the first ranging between 1027 ® 
and 1031 ° , and the second between 1025 ^ and 1028 ^ . 

But there is a second means by which it may be ascertained 
whether any milk be rich or not in butter; namely, by the 
microscope. 

Butter is suspended in milk, in the form of innumerable droplets 
of various sizes ; in rich milk, these are particularly abundant, so 
that when a drop of milk is viewed under an object-glass of high 
magnifying power the field is crowded with myriads of these 
globules. 

In an impoverished milk, the globules will be smaller in size and 
fewer, and the field of vision will present a different appearance. 

When curd of Milk is examined under the microscope, the butter 
IS still seen as droplets of fat, and the cheese as a granular substance 
of a yellowish color. 

It has been stated at the outset, that if the testimony of ordinary 
observers is to be credited, that milk of all articles of consumption, 
is most adulterated. 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION". Wsi 

The most common method of adulteration practiced is that with 
water, although other means are often resorted to. "When adul- 
terated with water, it is found that the serum of milk, that is, the 
fluid left after the precipitation of the cheese, bj the addition of 
acetic acid, possesses a density w hich is almost constant, the 
limits being 1025° to 1028 ° ; it is farther ascertained that the 
specific gravity of this serum, varies in proportion to the quantity 
of water added to the milk; now the addition of water would of 
course lessen the specific gravity in proportion to the quantity 
added, — we have thus a fixed point from which to determine tlje 
adulteration of milk with water. 

The specific gravity of skim-milk, although less uniform than 
that of the serum, is yet much more so than pure milk ; on this 
account, the next and most accurate method of determining the 
admixture of water with milk, is to take the density of skim-milk 
after the per centage of cream has been ascertained by the 
lactometer. 

The medicinal properties of milk have, until recently, been in a 
great measure overlooked. Yet in the early symptoms of con- 
sumption, it may be doubted if there is a better or more eifioacious 
remedial agent than buttermilk, combined with a small portion of 
quick lime, poured on a quantity of wild lettuce, by which means a 
strong infusion is obtained in about twenty-four hours. We have 
seen persons restored to perfect health, in a few months, by the con 
stant use of this infusion taken as an ordinary drink. A simple 
diet and gentle exercise were, in all cases, the only accessories. 

The subject of a " Milk Diet," and its curative effects in diseases 
of the heart, dyspepsia, dropsy, and affections of the breast, is at 
present commanding a good deal of the attention of the medical pro- 
fession, and no doubt some valuable and important results will be 
obtained for the benefit of suffering humanity, the more its powers 
and sanitary virtues become known and appreciated. 



136 MINE OP WEALTH; AND, 

I r used to be said that when the teapot was a permanent " tenant 
of I he hob," the owner was able to "talk some," and the idea is not 
yt;t lo3t sight of, though other beverages have disputed sovereignty' 
with "the cup that cheers but not inebriates;" we still find it cus- 
tomnry to call sociable chats by the name of tea parties — indeed, 
" come to tea, " is almost the same as "come to talk" would be, and it 
is thought nothing strange, if when we are invited to tea, we don't 
liud any, but have its substitutional infusions — perhaps Coftee, 
Chocolate, Cocoa or Rye. Tea however is an important item of diet 
— it lessens the wear and tear of the system — and the experience of 
many is, ihey would more readily do without their loaf than their 
iita. The reason of this is, that tea assists digestion, that is to say, 
Itciivs to disolve the food in the stomach, and thus obtains from a 
i:iven amount a larger proportion of nourishment. This is the rule 
in the use of tea. With plenty of food, tea is beneficial, becauseitis 
a powerful digestive agent, but where tea is taken without corre©* 
ponding food to digest, it wastes the tissues of the body and lowers 
all the vital powers. 

C(^ff'ee has not so many friends among the medical profession as 
tea, for it is always forbidden in treatment, and by many discour- 
aged entirely^ — but the effect of coffee on some constitutions is uo> 
inistakeably good; as an accompaniment of a good segar it is not 
likely to be discarded. It is supposed to act, however, adversely 
upon the reproductive organs, and may, in many ways be injurious 
— and the unfashionable make-believe Coffee called Rye, after all 
u\i\y be more wholesome. .gbaeo Hu ai ,MftW •8iai9xe> hiiti:\.. tMM lafb 

Chocolate, cocoa and suchlike are however in all their forms to be 
commended for they contain nutriment as well as aid in digestion. 

If however we might give our advice on the use of these articles 
it would be to use them, all, at different times, and confine yourself 
to none — taking care however that in their preparation as much 
care and common sense is used as in their purchase and selection. 



GUIDE TO THE MILLION. 137 

Sago, is a species of fecula or starch, obtained from the pith 
^grtjbe sago palpa-tree, and is highly nutricious and m^ch used in 
sickness. ,..,, .^,,,.. ,, ; ; ,,,,. - .i ;,;, . 

Gkla'|'i:^^.^s an article, of diet, is highly nutricious when coin- 
bii^ed wi^h other food abounding in proteine matter, but alone, it 
appears that, notwithstanding the opinion of ages to the contrary, 
it^js incapable of supporting life.. The eommendation of it as ^aaa 
alimentary substance has been too general and lavish, and has led 
to its employment as an article of diet for the sick, in cases in 
which it; is manifestly improper. "Gelatin may be considered as 
t^elesa^t, perfect, kind of albuminous (?) matter existing in animal 
bodies"; intermediate, as it were between the saccharine principles 
of plants, and thoroughly developed .albumen. Indeed, gelatin in 
animals may be said to be the counterpart of the saccharine prin- 
oi'ple of plants, it being distinguished from all other animal suib- 
stances by its ready 'conversion into a sort of sugar, by a proceses 
sdnailar to that by which starch may be so converted." The sim- 
ilarity of composition between the first and third of the above 
substances, will be readily recognized by the reader, but this simil- 
arity does not convey like properties ; gelatin, in reality, more 
nearly resembles sugar than albumen. It has none of the proper- 
ties of a compound of proteine. It neither yields proteine, when 
acted on by potassa, nor does it produce a purple color with hy- 
drochloric acid. It therefore does not contain proteine. Animals 
fed exclusively on gelatin diie of starvation. For ias gelatin contains 
ao proteine, it cannot yield albumen, fibrine, or oasfeine, substano^ 
necessary to the composition and support of animal bodies. Blood 
Gauuot be produced from gelatin alone; for it does not contain its 
most essential ingredient. But when mixed with other food, espe« 
cidlly compounds of proteine, or substances abounding in albumen, 
caseine, or fibrine, gelatin may be Useful as an aliment, and serve 
directly to nourish the gelatinous tissues. 



MINE OF WEALTH ; AND, 

tiikf wft r-- To dress Vegetables. * •" t**"^^ 

< ■■ Vegetables should be fresh gathered, and washed clean ; when 
not recently gathered, they should be put into cold spring- water 
some time before they are dressed. Wben fresh gathered, they will 
not require so much boiling, by a third of the time, as when they 
have been gathered the usual time those in our market have. 
Shake the vegetables carefully to get out the insects ; and take off 
the outside leaves. To restore frost-bitten vegetables, lay them in 
cold water an hour before boiling, and put a piece of saltpetre in 
the saucepan when set on the fire. Softwater is best for boiling veg- 
etables ; but if only hard water can be obtained, a very small bit of 
soda, or carbonate of ammonia, will soften it, and improve the ap- 
pearance of the vegetables. Pearlash should never be used, as k 
imparts an unpleasant flavor, as will also soda, if not cautiously 
used. All vegetables (except carrots) should be boiled by them- 
selves, and in plenty of water. Salt should be used with green 
vegetables. And the water should be skimmed before they are put 
in. Fast boiling, in an uncovered saucepan, will preserve their 
color. When they sink they are done, and should be taken out 
and drained, else they will lose their color, crispness, and flavor. 
Green vegetables, generally will require from twenty minutes to 
half an hour, fast boiling ; but their age, freshness, and the season 
in which they are grown, require some variation of time. They 
should, almost invariably, be put into boiling water. Vegetables 
are very nutritious and wholesome, when thoroughly boiled ; but 
are very indigestible when not sufficiently dressed. The principal 
points in cooking them are, to boil them so soft as to be easy of di- 
gestion, and sufficiently to get rid of any rankness, without losing 
their grateful flavor. 

Methods of Cooking. — Asparagm. — Let the stalks be lightly, 
but well scraped, and as they are done, be thrown into cold water; 
when all are finished, fasten into bundles of equal size ; put them 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 1^9 

into boiling water, throw in a handful of salt, boil until the end of 
the stalk becomes tender which will be about half an hour ; cut a 
round of bread, and toast it a clear brown, moisten it with the water 
in which the asparagus was boiled, and arrange the stalks with the 
white ends outwards. A good melted butter must accompany it to 
table. Asparagus should be dressed as soon after it has been cut 
as practicable. ''^ 

Angelica. — When the stalks are tender, cut them in lengths of 
three or four inches, and boil them well in a very little water, keep- 
ing them covered; then take them up and peel them, and boil again 
until a nice green, when take the stalks up on a cloth to dry, lay 
them in an earthan pan, adding to every pound of stalks a pound of 
sifted sugar, let it lie several days, and then boil the angelica until 
very green, when take it up on your sieve to drain, and sift well 
over it some fine pounded sugar ; lay it in the sun, or in your hot 
closet, to dry, if for candying. 

Artichokes. — Cut away the outside leaves, and make the stalks as 
even as possible, then put them into boiling water with some salt ; 
if they are very young, they will be tender in half an hour, if rather 
old, they will require an hour before they are thoroughly tender ; 
drain and trim the points of the leaves, and serve with melted butter. 
They are better for being kept two or three days. 

French Beans. — When very young, the ends and stalks only 
should be removed, and as they are done, thrown into cold spring 
water ; when they are to be dressed, put them in boiling water which 
has been salted with a small quantity of common salt, in a quarter 
of an hour they will be done, the criterion for which is when they 
become tender ; the saucepan should be left uncovered, there should 
not be too much water, and they should be kept boiling rapidly. 
When they are at their full growth, the ends and strings should be 
taken off, and the bean divided lenthways and across, or, according 
to the present fashion, slit diagonally or aslant. A small piece of 
soda a little larger than a good-sized pea, if put into the boiling 
water with the beans, or with any vegetables, will preserve that 
beautiful green which is so desirable for them to possess when 
placed upon the table. 

Cabbages. — A full grown or summer cabbage should be well and 



140 Umfi OF WEALTH; AN©, 

thoroughly washed ; before cooking,, eu^.them iato fo^r pieces, b«iil 
rapidly, with the saucepan uncovered, half an hour ; a young ea-b- 
bage will take only twenty minutes, but it must be boiled very 
rapidly ; a handful ofsp.lt should be thrown in the water before the 
cabbage is put in. 

Cauliflowers. — Trim them neatly, let them soak at least an hour 
in cold water, put them into boiling water, in which a liandful <gtf 
salt has been thrown, let it boil, occasionally skimming the water. 
If the cauliflower is small, it will only take fifteen minutes; if large, 
twenty minutes may be allowed ; do not let them remain after they 
are done, but take them up, and serve immediately. If the cauli- 
flowers are to be preserved white, they ought to be boiled in milk 
and water, or a little flour should be put into the water in which 
they are boiled, and melted butter should be sent to table with tliem. 

Green Peas. — A delicious vegetable ; a grateful accessory to many 
dishes of a more substantial nature. Green peas should be sent to 
table green. — No dish looks less tempting than peas if they wear an 
autumnal aspect. Peas should also be young, and as short a time 
as possible should be sufiered to elapse between the periods of 
shelling and boiling. If it is a matter of consequence to send them 
to table in perfection, these rules must be strictly observed. They 
should be as near of a size as a discriminating eye can arrange them ; 
they should then be put in a cullender, and some cold water suffered 
to run through them in order to wash them ; then, having the water 
in which they are to be boiled slightly salted, and boiling rapidly, 
pour in the peas ; keep the saucepan uncovered, and keep them 
boiling swiftly until tender; they will tak,e about twenty minute.s, 
barely so long, unless older than, they should be ; drain completely, 
pour them into the tureen in which they are to be served, and in 
the centre put a slice of butter, and when it has melted, stir round 
the peas gently, adding pepper and salt ; serve as quick and as hot 
as possible. 

Potatoes. — In Ireland potatoes are boiled to perfection ; the hum- 
blest peasant places his potatoes on his table better cooked than 
could half the cooks in our city, trying their best. Potatoes should 
always be boiled in their "jackets;" peeling a potato before boiling 
is ofiering a premium for water to run through it, and making idem 



OUiDfi Foa iME mhuam. 141 

waxy and un|»jiktable ; they siliould be thoroughly washed and put 
into cold water. In Ireland they always nick a piece of the akin 
(jff before they place thiem in the pot;' the water is gradually heated, 
but never allowed to boil ; cold water should be added as soon as 
the ^^ter commences bailing, and it should thus be checked until 
the potato is thoroughly done ; the skins will not then be broken or 
ei*dcked until the potato is 1ihoi^oug<hly done ; pour the water oft* 
completely, and let the skins be thoroughly dry before peeling. 

Spinach. — 'The leaves of the spinach should be picked from the 
stems; it should then be well washed in clean cold water, until the 
Whole of the dirt and grit is removed; three or four waters should 
be employed, it will not otherwise be got thoroughly clean ; let it 
dfain in a sieve, or shake it in a- cloth, to remove the clinging water. 
Place it in a saucepan wi^h rboiling water, there should be very 
little, it will be done in ten rain utes } squeeze out the water, chop 
the spinach finely, seasoning well with pepper and salt ; pour three 
(it fcrar large spoonsful of gravy over it, place it before the fire until 
much of the moisture has evaporated, and then serve. 

Turnips, Whole. — Pare several large turnips, and scoop out with 
an iron cutter fbr tlie J)at'|«)se; thrtoiw them in water as you cut 
them; when done, blanch them, then strain them off'; if for white 
sauce, add bechemel to them; if for brown, brown sauce; season 
as before. ©Ofilq-a : 

We cannot conclude this t)epartment of our book better than by 
giving the following valuable 
, , , , Domestic Hints, 

Eat slowly and you will not over-eat. 

Keeping the feet warm will prevent head-aches. 

Late at breakfast — hurried for dinner — cross for tea. 

Between husband and wife little attentions beget much love. 

Always lay your table neatly, whether you have company or not. 

Put your balls or reels of cotton into little bags, leaving the enda 
ont. 

Whatever you choose to give away, always be sure to keep your 
temper. 

Dirty windows speak to the passer-by of the negligence of tba 
inmates. 



i-i2 MINE OP WEALTH; AND, 

•^•V'Ti, crtlfl weather, a leg of mutton improves by being hung three, 
Hinr, or live weeks. 'vi*(W bWutfi 

' When meat is hanging change its position frequently, to equally 
ti-isfribiite the juices. 

There is much more injury done by admitting visitors to invalids 
tban in generally supposed. 

Matches, out of the reach of children, should be kept in every 
bed-room. They are cheap enough. J artijJg 

When you dry salt for the table, do not place it in salt-cells until 
it is cold, otherwise it will harden into a lump. 
"•^'Nevei- put away plate, knives, and forks, &c., uncleaned, or sad 
ihconvenience will arise when the articles are wanted. 

Feather beds should be opened every third year, the ticking well 
du.'^ted, soaped and waxed, the feathers dressed and returned. 

Persons of defective sight, when threading a needle, should hold 
it over something white, by which the sight will be assisted. 
^?n mending sheets and shirts, put the pieces sufficiently large, or 
in the first washing the thin parts give way, and the work is 
tihdoTic. 

■'^"Reading by candle light, place the candle behind you, that the 
9^j,-,s may pass over your shoulder on the book. This will relieve 
W.e eyes. 

A wire fire guard, for each fire-place in a house, costs little, and 
greatly diminishes the the risk to life and property. Fix them 
before going to bed. 

In winter, get the work forward by day-light to prevent running 
ab.>ut at night with candles. Thus you escape grease spots, and 
risks of fire. 

Bo at much pains to keep your children's feet dry and warm. 
Don't bury their bodies in heavy flannels and wools, and leave their 
knees and legs naked. 

Ai)|)les and pears, cut itito quarters, and stripped of the rind, baked 
\y\\\\ a little water and sugar, and eaten with boiled rice, are capital 
food foi- children. 

After washing overlook linen, and stich on buttons, hooks and 
fjoyes, &c; for this, purpose keep a "housewife's friend," full of mis- 
oellaueous threads, cottons, buttons, hooks, &c. 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION 10' 



>i7f 



'P 



Swimming — Home Bathing — Turkish Baths. 

Before meals rather tlian after, and especially before breakfast 
and before supper, are proper seasons for batTiing. The heats of the 
day are to be avoided, but, in very hot weather a" bath is useful to 
oool the blood, and secure refreshing leep. If iu the middle of the 
day, a shaded place should be chosen, or the head protected from 
the sun by being kept wet, or by wearing a straw hat, as is prac- 
tised by the fashionable French ladies at their watering places. 

, The sea is the best place for swimming. Owing to the greater 
specific gravity of salt water than fresh, the body is more bou/ant 
iait, as are other substances. A ship coming out of salt water into 
fresh sinks perceptibly in the water. The difference is hea[r!|- eqM 
to the weight of the salt held in solution. 

The bottom should be of hard sand, gravel, or smooth stones. 
Sharp stones and shells cut the feet — weeds may entangle the ih. 
The swimmer must avoid floating grass and quicksand. The hew 
beginner must be careful that the water does not run beyond his 
depth, and th at the current cannot carry him into a deeper place 
also that there be no holes in the bottom. As persons are ever 
liable to accidents, cramps, &c., it is always best that boys or girls 
should be accompanied by those who are older than themselves, and 
who will be able to save them in any emergency: 

Probably one of the best way.s of learning to swim is to go with a 
competent teacher, in a boat in deep water, thus supporting the body 



Wm MINE 0( ttti^iBa; AND, 

more buoyantly than that which is shallower, and preventing the 
constant tendency of beginners to touch bottom, which here is 
of course impossible. 

The teacher should i'asten a rope carefully around the waist, or 
better still, to a belt, which can neither tighten nor slip down. The 
rope may be fastened to a short pole. Supported in this manner, 
the pupil may take his proper position in the water, and practise; 
the necessary motions, add the siippoft oftJhe rope may be gradually 
lessened, until the pupil finds himself entirely supported by the 
water. *'*>»S. A%«AtiAi~\jw:iAi«a. amoB.— 

Corks and bladders are often used as supports for learners ; but 
it is much better to begin without them. As, however, it ey YHay 
be a protection in some cases Jigainst accidents, and enable the 
learner to practise the proper motions for rapid swimming mote 
carefully, they are not to be entirely condemned. ^ **® 

Swimming with the plank has two advantages. The young 
bather has always the means of saving himself from the effects of a 
sudden cramp, and he can practise with facility the necessary 
motions with the legs and feet, aided by the momentum of the plank, 
A piece of light wood three or four feet long, two feet wide, and 
about two inches thick, will answer very well for this purpose.' 
The chin may be rested upon the end, and the arms used, but this 
must be done carefully, or the support may go beyond the young 
swimmer's reach. 

A better method, still, as many think, is for the teacher to wade 
into the water with his pupil, and then support him in a horizontal 
position by placing his hand under the pupil's chest, while he directs 
his motions. 

Those persons who plunge into ilio water wn en they are heated 
by exercise, and remain in it mitil they iare benumbed with cold, 
or exhaust theniiselve.^ bv verv violent, e.>tertion, are the more 
rtubject to attack.s of cramp. The rnonu'ut the swimmer is seized 
"bv cramp in the legs, he inu.st m.t suffer him.self to feel alarmed; 



but strike out the limb affected with all his migiht, ke^piug the heel 
'downward, and! drawing the toes as fati iip^V'ard 'ais^J-hS'Gan, BltHough 
at the time these'movements give him great patn ; he-may also tiirn 
on his back, and jerk the limb into the air, though not so high^ as 
to throw himself out of his balance. Should these attempts ;prove 
unsuccessful, he milst try to reach the sbord\V-ith his hands; t^^ 
ail" eve'ntis, keep Wtnself afl bait utftif assistance can be procured. 
if lie cannot float on his back, he may sWim upright, keeping his 
head above the surface, by striking the water downward with his 
hands near his hips ; and he can thus make steady progress without 
■using his l6gk '' If only one lesg be attacked, the swimmer may 
strike forward with the other ; and to acquii^e confidence in oases 
of cramp, it is advisable to practise swimming with one hand and 
leg ; with the hands only, or even with one leg. 

"We now com6 to the most important directions. As the pupil 
must gradually acquire confidence in this new element, he should 



aiis 



:K^f 



•^l.l 



not be urged to plunge in against his inclination. After wetting 
nis head, he may wade in until the water is up to his breast, then 
turning towards the shore, inflate his lungs and incline forward, 
tintil the water covers his chin. The head should be thrown back- 
ward, and the back hollowed, and the chest as much as poissible 
expanded. In swimming, the feet should be about two feet below 
the surface. ' ■--•■•'■"'■ ''■'' •*-' ■•'••' '^'^ i's'-^ ■■i;)j;i s: ■lai.ui 

The hands should bi'plalied jh^stln-ftfriift^Uhe^bi^t, p6'^^ 
forward, the fingers kept close together, and the thumb t^ the 
' fingers, so as" to fdrm a islightly hollow paddle. Now strike' the 
hands forward as far as possible, but tiot-' bringing them to the 
surface ; then make a sweep backward to' the hips; the hands being 
turned downward and outward; then bring themf back under the 
body, and with as little resistance as may be, to their former 
position, and continue as before. 

The hands have three motions — Finst, from' their position at the 
breast, they are pushed straight forward; second, the sweep round 



146 MINK OF WEALTH ; AND, 

to the hips, like an oar. the closed and hollowed hands being the 
pad die portion, and their position in the water and descent serving 
both to propel and sustain the body ; and third, they are brought 
back under the body to the first position. 

Having learned these motions by practising them slowly, the 
pupil should proceed to learn the still more important motions 
of the legs. These are likewise three in number, one of preparation, 
and two of propulsion. First, the legs are drawn up as far as 
possible, by bending the knees, and keeping the feet widely sepa- 
rated ; second, they are pushed with force backward and outward, 
so that they spread as far as possible ; and, third, the legs are 
broughttogether, thus acting powerfully upon the wedge of water 
they enclose. 

In leaping into the water, feet first, which is done from rocks, 
bridges, and even from the yards and lofty masts of vessels, the feet 
must be kept close together, and the arms either held close to the 
side or over the head. The hands are also in a proper position 
for striking out. In diving head foremost, thp hands must be put 
together, so as to divide the water before the head. 

It is wonderful how easy the swimmer directs his course under 
water. If he wishes to go down or come up, or swim to the right 
or left, he has but to bend his head and. body in that direction, and 
after a little use he will do this almost unconsciously, as if his '- 
movements were the result of volition alone. 

In descending in the water, bend the head so as to bring the 
chin near the breast, and curve the back in the same direction; in 
ascending, hold back the head and hollow the back. In swimming 
over the surface, look up to the sky. 

In the swimming schools of Prussia, the pupils are taught in 
deep water, sustained by a belt, and a rope attached to a pole, 
which the teacher holds as a lever over a railling. The motions 
of *the arms, then of the legs, and then both together, are practised 
by word of command, like military exercises. The support is 



»mi>B FOR THE MILLION. 147 

given as required. After a few lessons the pole is dispensed with 
—then the rope ; but the pupil is still kept, until profieieftt, within 
reach of the pole. 

Treading is a favorite position in the water, and useful as a means 
of resting in swimming long distances^ The position ia perpen- 
dicular ; the hands are placed upon the hips, or kept close to the 
side, to assist in balancing the body, being moved like fins at the 
wrist only. The feet are pushed down alternately, so as to support 
the head above water ; and the body may be raised in this way to 
a considerable extent. While in this position, if the head be 
thrown back so as to bring the nose and mouth uppermost, and the 
chest somewhat inflated, the swimmer may sink till his head is 
nearly covered, and remain for any length of time in, this pQ§|^n 
without motion, taking care to breathe very slowly^. .1 : , ^ . 
.^i({ fo swimming on either side, the motions of the legs have no alter- 
ation, but are performed as usual. To swim on the left side, lower 
that side, which is done with the slightest effort, and requires no 
instructions. Then strike forward with the left hand, and sidews^ys 
with the right, keeping the back of the latter to the front, with the 
thumb side downward, so a? to JE|,pt as ai^ ,,^a?., ,|Jn jb|UriiingrOj:^P^e 
other side, srtike out with the right hand, and use the left for a,n 
oar. To swim on each side alternately, stretch out the lower arm 
the instant that a strike is made by the feet, and strike with the 
other arm on a level with the h^,^d at tlie instant that the feet ,^i^e 
I urging the swimmer fprward; and while the upper hand is carried 
forward, and the feet are <?ontracted, the lower hand must be drawu 
toward the body. This method is full of variety, and capable 
of great rapidity, but it is also very fatiguing. 

Thrusting is a beautiful variety of exercise, and much used by 
accomplished swimmers. The legs and feet are worked as in ordi- 
nary swimming, but the hands and arms very differently. Oneiarm 
■ — say the right — should be lifted wholly out of the wat'^r, thrust 
frv'T"'.'^ ^'^ '^* m^*nn-!* i'f\'*t*ihmrr ^nf^ thf"? d^o^^ped upon the w«tor 



■j^^g MINE OF -WEALTH; AND, 

with tbe hand hollowed, and then brought back by a powerful 
movement, pulling the water toward the opposite arm-pit: At the 
same time the body must be sustained and steadied by the left hand, 
working in a small circle, and as the right arm comes back from 
its far reach to the arm-pit, the left is carrying in an easy sweep 
from the breast to the hip. The left arm is thrust forward alter- 
nately with the right, and by these varied movements, great 
rapidity is combined with much ease. 

Swimming on the back, is the easiest of all modes of swimmitig, 
because in this way a larger portion df the body is supported by 
the water. It is very useful to ease the swimmer from the greater 
exertion of more rapid methods, and especially when a long con- 
tinuance in deep water is unavoidable. The ^wimmer can turn 
easily to this position, or, if learning, he has but to incline slowly 
backward, keeping his head on a line with his body, and letting his 
ears sink below the surface. Then placing his hands upon his hips, 
he can push himself along with his feet and legs with perfect eftse, 
and considerable rapidity. 

The hands may be used to assist in propelling in this mode by 
bringing them up edgewise toward the arm-pits, and then pushing 
them down, the fingers fronting inwards, and the thumb part down. 
This is called " winging." ' - ' - '■ '" ^ ' • ^ ' 

The hand may be used at discretion, the apfplicatibn of Yotc^'^in 
one direction of course giving motion in the other ; and the best 
methods are soon learned when once the pupil has acquired 
confidence in hisbouyant power- ^*'''"«* «^** **»* »'^^ ^«* i.i«irw8 
5ld£q£o Jja£ ^(kniiiv :: iiui wr '" ;afT vbod 9d) hi«w«J 

id boetr ifowra bojc , -v IttXiiumds mi sniJimcfT 

-jfno Bi M f)03iiow 9T* is ^^^ Bathing. gif»mrriiw« bsMlqtaootm 

^''^Thebb are certain rules connected with our ablutions that ought 
to ' be known and carefully observed. Many persons bathe after a 
fcdl meal, in ignorance of the fact that a period of at least threo 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLIOJiT. 1^^ \ 

■ bspUTS ought to intervene. It is wise 9,lso to consider not only the 
conditions of our stomach, when we are about to take a bath but 
the degree to be exerted by the bath-rTfpl^it:is,;^.iP^o^e;lJai^t. .tjl^at 
the more empty the stomach the greater is the ability of the .syst^j^. , 
to bear powerful bathing and the more loaded the stomach is vfitk- 
undigested food, the less desirable is any bathing indulgence. Per- 
sons when heated; by exertions ought not to ^pply cold water tp 
their bodies',- but it4s qjuite a [beneficial l^^urj, to i^spiijh^ ppld,]:^^th 
when even profusely perspiring from the usqof;^,hqt: l?aj;l\,;, b,u|Jf, 
must not be forgotten that all sudden changes are riskful, of the 
respiration be disturbed, or a fatiguing exhaustion experienced, 
Under all circumstances when a cold bath is , taken the body should 
be comfortably warm. : The "^^p-m %\'P» <^^^^ jnipaiis a^^ i^ec^uir^^, ; 
fresh and dry wrapping, or fire, according to. circumstances. -.at 
command. When feeble or debilitated, persons commence a course 
of bathing, it should be borne in mind that tepid or warm water, 
should be used, and attention paid to its temperature, so that at ea,ch 
succeeding use , of; tihebath„„the tepaperature m^y, be lowered .^^til 
the body €^n^be%rqrdinarily cold water without inconvenienc^ej^j^^j^fj 
The application of water to the skin differs in its efiects accord- 
ing to the manner of its use. It may be general or p^|;ial^,J}^t ,<:^r 
cold, and continue for a longer or shorter period. f;;i,rT if 

•The Hofije bp.th,sho,u]4 aUv^^.s have, at,, hand two ^bathing sheets 
each capable of enveloping the whole body— fpr there are two pic); 
cesses requiring a wet sheet ; and a dry one should always be ready 
to wrap inr after any bathing, in which tp.T^ifi^^v^.,a'J^W,^^mMMy 
lore dressing. .>!:»;< j.* 11 ..aiiiW nsff:^o to 

ti,iAfi sh^et dripping wet may be wrapped round the body, , the ^ppr- 
son standing up in a tub or bath and then rubbed by an attendant 
withthe hands Qver the sheet, the bather assisting, so as speedily and 
actually to finish it — or by placing, i^aan el, cloths di|jpe,d_ in l;i9t, 
water, avi^l wmng'oufc nearly .dry in ap,y,thiii; cl,qth,igo,,t^t;_the gfrt 
ma}' bo steam(^(.l, an^l a sedative effect produced. 



1^ MINK OF WEALTH; AND, 

He is then to be transferred to a dry sheet and the like outinde 
rubbing repeated. 

The other wet sheet process is termed packing, from the fact that 
other wrappings are added to the sheet. In preparing for this op- 
eration two or three bed covers or comfortables, are required ; one 
spread or mattress, then a pair of woollen blankets, then a wet sheet, 
(pillows having been placed on the mattress to raise the head and 
shoulders) and then the person is placed on his back and the sheet' 
closed over him tightly ; then the clothes and the comfortables — 
taking care to wrap the feet well and leave the head free. He then 
remains from fifty to sixty minutes — on removal he may enter a 
cold bath or not, but rubbing with a crash towel is important, vary- 
ing in activity according to the person's condition. 

If during this process, headache is felt apply a folded wet towel 
to the forehead, if the feet continue or become cold, apply a bottle 
or jar of hot water to the wrappings up. 

There is also a wet sheet process which is only partial, that is 
to say only the trunk is enveloped, from the armpits to the hips, 
but otherwise the treatment is the same as the preceeding. 

The wet girdle is applied by the use of a few yards of crash 
toweling ^ one half wet, the other dry and wrapped round the abdo- 
men. This should be frequently, or as often as it gets dry, re-ap- 
plied until alleviation from troublesome symptoms is obtained. It 
may be worse at night. 

The sweating process is accomplished easily by a wet bandage 
round the throat, and all the rest of the body enclosed in blankets 
or other warm flannels. 

The half bath is any vessel convenient to a sitttng posture with 
the legs extended — and the water should reach half way up the ab- 
domen ; an attendant should then rub the upper while the bather 
rubs the lower parts of the body. 

In the use of the hip bath, a blanket should be clasped at 



. GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 151 

the throat and hang down outside the bath tub, which may at the 
same time be used to assist the fraction of the abdomen and sides. 

The Foot Bath is simply a small vessel for the feet filled with the 
water, in which the feet are kept in motion as if walking for ten or 
fifteen minutes and then put into cold water for the shortest possi- 
ble time and then well dried with crash toweling. 

The best Foot Bath however for those who can bear it is obtained 
by a stream of water, such as a running hydrant would produce, 
and walking up and down in it with the bare feet — then rubbing 
them dry with crash toweUijjg .and putting on clean dry socks or 
stockings. cIt;- •" 

The Shower Bath known to every one is not recommended in 
consequence of the shock to the head, but there may be cases in 
which if the head be first wetted or protected by covering, in which 
this plan may be beneficial. 

The Stream Douche is an impartial remedy for many local diffi- 
culties, and can be easily obtained by a common hose pipe attached 
to the hydrant, and the height and strength regulated by the 
faucet. 

The Pail or Bucket Douche, is an easy one (when used to it) an 
agreeable steam bath. This is done by standing in a tub, the head 
having been first dipped in a basin of water and pouring over the 
shoulders the contents of a water bucket — quickly followed by 
good rough drying and rubbing. 

The Towel Bath is simply the use of a dripping towel or sponge, 
applied all over the body, and followed by unfolding in a large dry 
sheet. 

Injection Baths are used warm or tepid, or cool or cold — a 
warm injection is used abundantly to quiet pain and produce free 
evacuations — a cold injection to check excessive evacuations and to 
strengthen the bowels. 

Fomentation Baths are used to relieve spasms, griping paips, 



Ia6fi MINE OF wealth: and, to 

neriYpiis headache, and such like, and are used in two ways either by ■ , 
liot water — soaked tpweling or by placing thin ;flannel cloths dipped 
in liot water and wrung ont nearly dry in any cloth, so that the part 
may be steamed and a sedative effect produced, p. ^^^ Jyi//y/ u -jsiMW 

1 . . . , , f' '^-- - ■■ .-rv 

"TJTTnv b; . ____ ;,: 

bsfliaJcfo 81 *i ije&cf n«o offw oaotfi Kyi lovewotf htaStoo'? ieod orfT 
,3^ aow itta^hvJ^^^^<'h Baths. .^^, .^^^^ ^^ ^^^^^ 

Theory oi* the ^ath. — The impression that a bath necessarily 

implies water is erroneous. The Turkish Bath consists primarily t 
in the application of heated air to the surface of the body for the pur-;?. 
pose of cleansing the skin, purifying the blood, and thereby giving 
relieiTrom pain and disease. In the East, Hdt Air Baths have been> 
in use for centuries, both as a liixury and as a religious custom, by ' 
those who regard physical cleanliness as an aid to moral purification. 'i 
It remained for the present age to adopt a;nd apply the Eastern Bath 
as an invaluable remedial agent. laido yliRie'^ ed n^o hn^ w'ditfo 

The regular Turkish Baths comprise a suit of ^our rooms, namely : •) 
the Frigidarium, with which is connected the dressing-rooms; the 
Tepidarium, or warm room ; the'Galidarium, or hot room ; and the 
Lavatorium, or bathing-rooms. The bather enters the first ; retires 
to tte curtained recess, were he can privsttely prepare him for the 
bath ;'and then enters the Tepidarium, where he remains until the . 
body becomes warm and be has accustomed himself to the tempera- 
ture of the room, ordinarily about 100 ^ Fahr. ; after which he enters 
the Calidarium, the average temperature of which is 130 '^ , and re- • 
clines at leisure on one of the marble couches. When the bather ^ 
is perspiring freely, the attendant goes though a serie^ of manipula- 
tions of the person, called Shampooing the object of which is to re- 
lax the muscles, and, at the same time, give greater freedom to the' 
skin, in relieving the body of its effete matter. This done, the^- 
bather enters the Lavatorium, and is there completely lathered with 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLIQUifK 15^ j 

perfume soapy and rubbed: i«fitVa,bj^iisb or sponge, after w^hiqhj.be 
is subjected'ta the mebessary abl«tioT^s. He is then wrapped ;;|%%, 
dry sheet, and c6nd acted to the cooling-poom, where he reclines 0J9.,,, 
one of the lounges until his skin is dry, when he res,umes his ordji- 
nary attire. The skin is now " as, soft as velvet, as smooth as mar- 
ble,and as sleek as satin," and thie sensatioiis experienced delighljfvil , 

in the extremes w ifsq rr. odi bsx ^otaoi ykdpid bI di&8 Qdi 

Effects of the Bath. — Its first physiological effect is to perfect 
the respiratory function of the skin — to give a living and healthy 
ctiticle, instead of the weak, diseased, and dirty covering which the 
majority of people possess. The skin is thus fitted for imbibing the , 
oxygen of the atmosphere, and giving off the carbon from the blood, 
tw'o most important processes. When we consider that^ the skin,,i^^ 
provided with no less then seven million pores, designed to assist the 
several excretive organs in discharging refuse matter from the 
system, some idea can be formed of the vast importance of keeping , 
it ill ^ perfectly healthy state* 8)^oo®(fpersoni liable, to, ti^)s:^,(Scyi^j 
frdni exposure to slight draughts, the feeling of defianpe to cold 
imparted by the Baths is one of their most striking results., 
Those engaged in manufacturing processes where a high degr^ee qf , 
heat is employed, are found to be entirely free from colds. . In no 
diseases are the effects more magical then in Eheumatism. In 
northern climates, the functions of the skin are, to a great extent,, 
dormant, and its purpose as an outlet for refuse matters of the sys- 
tem almost nullified by inaction. The habitual use of these Baths 
remedies this state of things, giving, at the tsame time beauty to 
thfe skin and health to^ the body; Mr. iB.- Urquhart, than whom 
there is no better authority, says: Where the Ba.th is the practicj^. 
of the people; there are no diseses of the skin. , ,, , 

Perspiration" not Weakening.^ — It is common to asspciate pro^ 
fiise perspiration lvith debility, and to imagine it to be weakening to 
the system.' TMs is a mistake. • Perspiration induced by passivgj 



X54 MiSTB OP wealth; and, j- 

means can not weaken, particularly when the bather partakes freely 
of water. Travelers in the East resort to the Bath for refreshment 
and invigoration. The porters at Constantinople, who are frequent 
bathers, will place a load of five hundred weight unaided on their 
backs. Farmers laboring in the hot sun of harvest days, are bene- 
fited rather than debilitated by abundant perspiration. In fact, 
the Bath is highly tonic, and the rule is to put weak people in 
often, as it is considered conducive to flesh and strength. Perspira- 
tion drains away no living tissue, but merely effete and poisonous 
matter which enervates instead of strengthens. If you perspiw 
well you come out of the Bath stronger than you went in. 

The Turkish Bath differs materially from the Eussian or Va- 
por Bath. In the one case, the heated body is surrounded by dry 
air, which favors perspiration and the free absorption of oxygen 
from the atmosphere; whereas, on the other hand, the body is im- 
mersed in vapor, which being absorbed in place of the oxyg^« 
thereby interferes with the process of evaporation, which nature 
provides for cooling the body. The same rule applies to warm 
water Baths with even greater force. The depressing effect of a 
hot, damp " muggy" day in summer, in contrast with the exhiliration 
of a fair clear day, is an apt illustration of the difference. Hot 
water can not be used with comfort much over 100 ® Fahr. ; steam 
not over 112 ® , or possibly 120 ° ; while hot air may be applied 
by the practised bather at as high a temperature as 200 ® , with but 
Uttle inconvenience. In the Vapor Bath, the pulse is accelerated 
from forty to fifty beats a minute before perspiration is induced, 
while in the Turkish Bath there is but very little variation from 
the normal standard. 

How important therefore it is to pay proper attention to some 
system of Bathing— even were it for no other purpose than that of 
cleansing the pores existing all over the surface of our bodies, ioj 
there are scattered millions of minute orifices, which open into 



GtriDE FOR THE MILLION-; 155 

o 

the delicate convoluted tubes lying underneath the skin, and are 
called by anatomists sudoriferous glands. Each of these tubes when 
straightened, measures about a quarter of an inch ; and as according 
to Erasmus Wilson, whose figures we follow, there are 3,528 of 
these tubes on every square inch of the palm of the hand, there 
must be no less then 882 inches of tubing on such a square inch. 
In some parts of the body the number of tubes is even greater t in 
most parts it is less. Erasmus Wilson estimates that there are 
2 800 on every square inch on the average ; and as the total num- 
ber of such inches is 2 500, we arrive at the astounding result that 
spread over the surface of the body, there are not less than twenty- 
eight miles of tubing, by means of which liquid may be secreted, 
and given off as vapour, in insensible perspiration, or as water in 
sensible perspiration. In the ordinary circumstances of daily life 
the amount of fluid which is thus given off from the skin (and 
lungs) during the twenty-four hours varies from 1 2-31b to 51b. ; 
under extraordinary circumstances the amount will of course rise 
enormously. Dr. Southwood Smith found that the workmen in 
the gasworks employed in making up the fires, and other occupations 
which subjected them to great heat, lost on an average 31b 6ozs. 
in forty-five minutes ; and when working for seventy minutes in an 
unusually hot place their loss was 51b and 41b. 14ozs. 

The best time for taking this or any other Bath is that which 
will least interfere with the process of digestion ; for instance, 
before a meal. Two hours should elapse after eating lightly, and 
at least three hours after dinner or a hearty meal. The time gene- 
rally required for a Bath is one hour, though the processes may be 
shortened or prolonged at will. 

The frequency with which the Bath should be taken depends 
upon the object in view. For invalids, the frequency must be regu 
iated by a medical adviser who understands its effects and proper 
application. 



15G MINE OF wealth; and, 

© 

''Mar^ne'Wfltef 1!^ iMotibftedly better for the bather than fresh, it 

t*XfM-ts a more tonic influenGC, and its temperature is always more 

4!^«tlf.alvle. "Vha proper bathing season i«a this country is from t}ie 

Uyf^iwriing oP June to the end of September ;. the tempt/rature of the 

\yi«t(* tJ'i4h .ranges from 56 '^ to 70^ Fahrenheit, When, it is coi«.hjr. 

than tlrii^, fehould bathing be ordered for medicinal or other purpose^ 

rtvsort sliould be bad to Medicated Baths in which the water its iiti-' 

f)regnat(id with certain minerals, vegetable, and sometimes uuiujai 

sub-stances. Thus we have sulphur, chlorine and iron baths,. iffl!8>S! 

malic and milk baths; which, if properly prepared and npipli^^ 

may be productive of very beneficial effects. The Aromcbtic Vjo^or 

Balh is prepared by passing the vapor of boiling water througharvj- 

matio plants, from which the active, principles are thus carj-ied (iC: 

A good Alkaline Bath may be prepared thus :— SiubcarbonjiteioL' 

potash 8 ounces; hot water about 20 gallons; employed as a ravull-: 

seat in chilblains and sanguineous congestions. • . j 

In bathing children, it should be borne in mind, that the powier 
of producing heat iii warm-blooded animals is at its minimum at 
birth, and increases succesfeively to adult age; hence, the water t bait 
feels but cool to the nurse's hand, may be absolutely cold to an«m'r 
fant. Some persons are fond of what they call hardening tlieir chiii 
dren, by plunging them into cold water in winter; but this is, a 
|3eTrii6idus pi-acfciee, and often produces disease of the lungs i6f of 
the digestive organs. ^iJ '^« awooiq f" 

We all kbo\i( how ihtimatety he'jtlth and cleanliness are connedt^il 
and as a sanitary precaution merely, it would be well for our |3iib- 
lic authorities to afford every facility and inducement to the'f)('>or(^f 
'classes to wash and bathe more frequently than they noTfr do or caii)^ 
There would be less danger ' from epidemic diseases, wliich'^i^m- 
m'incing^with them frequently spread through the whole coimriii- 
inty, 'il" the bath and' towel were in greater requisition among them. 



GUIDE F0± 4M^H(ltU0i(. 1^*^ 



-.!•'. 



■.r-!^ 



;a9gijiiiaaib Y.i9l^w bofi ^sorfrfBib ,aoilJJzr>ioi e9»:jjj!i£ kwl orau; 



aibeiq ,8fI-nB>tfio o* oKh ^frivig .awooirm sylBTonog L'-' ••.■''" '.r;,r-v 
v>d lla'ii itod — ariofRHtrrqqo faiiB aaf^IworffiiI> *«OTifJ f 
-- ^88T©d* ob llhraiffinn baa ,gnrtoeiiooli9a fanuo'] 
-uftifi 9(1* lebau ^no^i^&•gib "io liiovr ^[trfgio lori no x,'' 

,d bn« .Tin P.Ii V ^^^iM(^^ eiirative, omd mifv:t:^ '': "'^^'^^ ' 
11 IS as aifficult to draw the dividing line between food and med- 

^icine as it' is between tlie atiimal and vegetable kingdoms. Many 
noTa the opinion and in our opinion wisely, — that food is both nu- 
iritive /and therapeutic or cu rati ve^ — take water for exaniple, the 
most importat mternal and external pf the whole materia medica. 
bo in like manner with all our eatables and drinkables, they are all 
QHiar in their operations — enriching or depleting — as well as ob- 
structive or c'uraiive— all good medicines may therefore be said to 
be nutritious, all good lood medicinaJ. 

The more naturally we live the better is the hValth we enjoy, and 

"the less we think about the evils of dispepsia, the less cause we have 
to feel it. The main reason why dispeptics have so much cause of 
complaint about certain articles disagreing with their stomachs la 
because tliey stingily reruse them to that organ— as it tp use a 
Ilebrew saying "bricks'^ could be made without straw ;" formerly 

' bricks were mixed with chopped straw in the manner now of hair in 
mortar, to prevent their falling to pieces, when sun drying. The 
stomach cannot do€is work if it be not made out of the matenal it has 
todifjest — -hence tke way to digest is to obtain a healthy digester. 

, Persons are found who gradually drop one article of food after 
"another till they are reduced to a very sparse bill of fare and still 
complain of indigestion — but let them once keep on eating what 
appears to disagree with them, not in abundance but in ever cbang* 



158 MINE OP WEALTH; AND, 

iiig variety, and they will forge a new stomach that will soon 
hardly refuse " Horse-nails." 

Some food induces relaxation, diarrhoea and watery discharges, 
while other food generates mucous, giving rise to catarrhs, predis- 
p<jsing lung and throat diffiiculties and oppressions — but if all be 
eaten, they will be found self correcting, and nature will do the rest— 
,111(1 by day carry on her nightly work of digestion, under the influ- 
ence of light, air, and exercise, and by night of gradual assimila- 
tion under the mantle of darkness, in the stillness of the air, and in 
the absence of exercise. The contest of the schools of medical learn- 
ing have ever ended in extremes of opinion — and it is a noteworthy 
fact in, these days of investigation and diffused knowledge that no 
two pliyscians will diagnoze and prescribe the same for the same 
diiBculty— on the other hand the most curative attendance is found 
in unstudied common sense, matter of fact folks such as are found 
in the Florence Nightingale class of nurses, and in books of refer- 
ence such as " The Mine of Wealth " where the simple and un- 
sophisticated truth is alone found. The Allopaths healing power is 
in medicines; the Hygienic physicians consider that all healing power 
is in the living system, and that there is nothing curative out* 
side the vital organism. 

Again the Allopath and the Homoepath are at extremes in re- 
gard to quantity, the one increases large doses the other diminishes 
small ones— the one drugs with opposites the other medicates with 
siniilaritie —again, water, milk, magnetism, vegetables, the Sun and 
j^, host of jOther units of cure have their exclusive advocates and 
piactisers until every branch and leaf and flower and fruit of the 
great world's trunk of medication, is diverse in some feature or 
uiiuther. Still man lives, man thrives and man does as he likes 
av hm'i as he can: when the inherent power is impaired through 
ignorance, another fountain of often greater ignorance is applied to, 
to re- establish the normal condition — and then in most cases th« 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 160 

self-hood of the individual is surrendered to another, the directions 
given are never followed exactly, and the patient gradually succumbs 
to the Epitaph 

Affliction sore, long time I bore, 
Physcians were in vain, &c. 
The time is coming however when books like The Mine oV 
Wealth will reach every sensible man in the world, aud fill liim 
with new ideas, ideas that will enable him to understand himself and 
his surroundings, as well as his own health and its connection 
with the common activities of every day life. 



Consumption. 
The popular terms, Consumption and Decline, are not always 
applied to the same diseases, being used to designate any of those 
ailments which are characterised by a wasting away of the sub- 
stance of the body. Some people suppose, moreover, that all aftec- 
tions which have for symptoms a gradual diminution of muscular 
strength, with cough, must be cases of Oojisumption, There is a 
wide-spread conviction that all these cases are hopeless and inciir- 
able. It is our agreeable duty to show the errors of these popular 
prejudices. Having giving our attention, particularly to diseases 
of the chest, it is neither our intention to elevate false hopes, nor to 
speak more discouragingly than we are positively warranted by ex- 
perience. We have no new remedy to recommend, nor any pet 
theory to establish: but webelieVe that a general ignorance of the 
nature of consumption exists, and that the want of information leads 
to the neglect of preventive measures, which have saved many from 

an early grave. 

Firstly. — Let us consider what consumption is. True consump- 
tion consists in the deposit, by the blood-vessels in the lungs, of a 
substance which is incapable of being alive. To explain tliis by 



160 MIKK or WEALTH; AND, 

its reverse :• -war^t^ er moles are unnatural growths ; they do ri6i; de- 
6aty upon the' body, but have blodd circulated through thcgn. 
^Yhen a wound is made in the skin, from tlie blooi[l ..v^lijtijk.iiojivfs 
there is poured out or deposited a substance called lymj>li^ which 
fills the incision, and, if the case proceeds favOiirably, gradual Iv as- 
sumes all the appearances of the parts in Avhich the W(yuiij<il'i was 
made: in other words lymph becomes organized iirid^ lives, ^}^n 
the wound does not heal by this formation or organization of J yjinph, 
matter, or pus ^ is poured out: this fluid is of lower vital iu than 
lymph, but is evidence of no deterioration in the blv)yd, iuvi/^is 
capable of being absorbed again by the vessels under peculiar vAv- 
cumstances. It performs an important part in the growili of 
wounds, wherj a large portion of flesh has been destroyed, ami has 
to be filled up by granulation, or gradual growth.. A substaivu^ of 
less vitality is TUBERCLE, the deposit of which is the ca,use of the 
disease properly called consumption. This substance can nev^u- be 
vitalized nor absorbed after it is once deposited ; but sooner or 
later excites inflamation around every portion of it, just as a thorn, 
or a splinter, or any other foreign body would do if it were intro- 
duced into the flesh and allowed to remain therein. , , . 

Tubercle, or tuberculous matter, is found in various conditions, 
and different situations. It is not uncommonly deposited in the 
glands of the neck, and is then known as scrofula. In children it 
is occasionally deposited in the glands and tissues which surround 
the membranes of the bowels in the cavity of the abdomen- — in these 
cases it is called mesenteric disease. Later in life the scene of its 
destructive influences is located in the upper portions of the lungs, 
and then it is recognised as consumption. It varies in character, 
from a hard grain like a millet seed (its primitive condition) to a 
cheesey-looking substance, in. larger quantities. Occasionally and 
rarely it is found in a dried state surrounded with a thick skin-like 
bag called a cyst. TLese details. are given because the probability 



aiTII>£ FOB TWSi MIIiMQSr. 161 

of a cure depends, in a great measvsre, upon the state in wliiGb. the 
tfeiibercles in *he lungs happen <to hev If ithey ace im the fl'Fstf ©r 
milary state, they may remain without producing inflamation for 
;months or years ; if in the second statCj inflamation, the formation 
of matter (pus), and the ulceration of the lung is certain ; in the last, 
:^jjhe tuberculous matter being prevented from irritating the tissue 
iTirhich surrounds ity may never produce ftifey lata! effects ; the last 
iiftate is, however, very rare. ,.^--,hjo '-nm ^v ;.;:;t:'vr:;. ui ■:'>>. v . :. ; 
■ To sum up then-^consumptiofl^ongistff iff "^8 iai^ostt' df llflbe'reMo'^s 
matter in the lungs, which may or may Tiot besoimjured thereby as 
sto destroy life. If the quantity of tubercu'lous^ matter is not lar^e, 
and if the constitution is in such a state as to bear inflamation aM 
ulceration of the lungs (whereby the irritating substance may be re- 
moved from their tissue), then is consumption curable ; but if, as is 
leommonly the case, the tubercles have been allowed to be deposited 
in large quantities in both lungs, and great debility arises as both 
the cause and effect of the state of thelungs— ^the4: alasj.^ittreriei is 
but little hope. - of^-^ -^ ,:^ ::' o.:an cr. e'-''-M:e 

The usual history of fatal c^s§i^'i# 'as' follows : tubeftJtilo«^'i«atlfer 
-^16 deposited in the lungs as small grains ; a low kind of inflamation 
results around each nucleus, and more tuberculous mattef is pdliifed 
oilt. The tubercle then softens, and the effort of ifitdture to expel 
the intruder results in ulceration. At this period a portion of the 
lung softens and comes away with the cough; a blood-vessel is 
burst, and the constitution, thus weakened, is disposed to a fresh 
deposit of tuberculous matter. This round of deterioration of the 
blood, fresh deposit of tubercle, and fresh ulceration goes on, until 
the powers of the system are exhausted, and death takes place. 

The second part of the subject brings the writer to the most im- 
portant part of his remarks, the causes of consumption. We ha/Ve 
seen that tubercles have their origin in the blood, and that con- 
sumption is to be toacied to a diseased state of that fluid ; which in- 



162 MINE OP WEALTH; AND, 

stead of depositing, as in healthy reparative inflamation, a substance 
capable of organization, pours out in the place thereof an effete 
matter, which is incapable of vitality or absorption. We find de- 
posits at various ages in various parts. All these circumstances 
prove that local causes alone will not entirely account for the sad 
phenomenon. Whatever the causes be, they are evidently such as 
affect the constitution generally, and dispose the circulating fluid 
(when called in excess to any congested or irritated part) to deposit 
therein what> would have been organizable lymph, if the blood had 
been in, a healthy condition, but which in its. impoverished con- 
dition is tubercle. To sum up., the immediate causes of tuberculoids 
deposit are a peculiarly impoverished state of the blood, combined 
with a congestion or extra supply of blood, resembling a diffused 
slight inflammation in the part affected. 

The former is evidently the most important, because if the .con- 
stitutional ailment exists, a local congestion will soon give Qppor- 
tunity for its effects; whereas the latter without the former might 
cause so little derangement of the health as to be unnoticed. The 
question now arises— What is the cause of this condition of the 
blood? Upon our knowledge of this depends mainly the hope 
which we entertain of the success of, preventive and. c,u,rati ye mea- 
sures, and this is the knowledge which it is most desirable should 
be generally diffused. By correctly understanding the true causes 
and nature of the disease, hundreds of persons who now fall victims 
■to the nostrums of ignorant quacks, would learn that, no mere drug 
has the power to check their disease; but that their, hope of life 
depends upon a combination of sanitory measures, adopted early, 
and perseveringly pursued; and those measures directed to give the 
•blood a higher vitality, at the same time that local congestion or 
:irritations are prevented or removed. 

The causes 6£ copsumption may therefore be classified as follows: 
m lA-T— General Causes, or influences; which produce a diseased 



GUIDE FOB THE MILLION. '163 

condition of the blood : which fluid, upon a congestion of any organ, 
becomes liable to deposit tuberculous matter therein. 

B. — Special Causes, or influences which produce congestion or 
inflamation in particular organs, which are most commonly the 
seat of tuberculous deposit. 

A. — ^General Causes. 
^^' in estimating the various influences which produce the consump- 
tive cachexia, it must not be forgotten that age and sex must always 
be considered when weighing the importance of any other predis- 
posing causes ; because it has been proved by statistics that females 
are more liable than males to fall victims to this melancholy com- 
plaint. Men are more liable between the ages of twenty-one iand 
twenty-eight; while females are more exposed to this disease before 
the age of twenty. From fifteen to " thirty years, however, in both 
sexes, is the period which seems unfortunately favourable to the 
development of tubercles in the lungs. After the age of thirty-flV-e, 
deaths from consumption are comparatively rare. In giving a pop- 
ular essay on this part of our subject, we ait once feel called ■iipon 
to remind our rea^ders thaXpreventicH^ i^'hefi-^'t^ 
consumption maybe prevented in a large ntimiber of cases wh^6re 
it is threatened ; but that cure, after the disease has become 
rooted is very rarely effected. Of the causes, those under this head 
are by far the niostserious,'bbcausethey'areiii6st difficullbtoreniO^e. 
1. 5ere(i'z!;ar2/ (::?^s^^5^7^on.-— In'humerable faniilia'r efases prove to 
every observer the sad truth, that the liability to tuberculous dis- 
<ease, or consumption, is transmitted from parents to children. The 
peculiar state of the constitution called the consumptive diathesis 
^acAexza, is observed to run through a whole family ; the 'various 
branches of which 5ie 6ff when they a,ttain a ceirtaiii -'ttgev' iJiiw^Ay 
assume in some instances different fotms in' the pel^SOns attacked : 
as, for instance, in otie it may appear as mesenteric disease ; in 
another as scrofula ; and in the elder bi'anehes as eonsumptioai^viJB 



194 MINE OP WEALTH; AND, 

estimating the probability, therefore, of any individual being at- 
tacked by tubercles in the lungs, an important light is thrown upon 
it by the existence or absence of the tuberculous cachexia amonj? 
his near relations. 

2. Insufficient exercise, air, and light. — In persons not hereditarily 
predisposed, this is the most fertile cause of disease. It must not 
be si^pposed that mere muscular labour is all that is required. The 
tiring inordinately of one set of mugcles has been proved to be par- 
ticularly injurious: unless the whole of the muscular svstein is 
called into exercise, the general health is sure to suffer. Seden- 
tary employments are often less ipjurious than those in which 
one set of muscles are unremittingly exerted. But tlie want 
of fresh air, and especially of ligbt renders the lungs unable to 
perform their functions, however varied the employment may be. 
The laws of the constitution of man are unalterable on this 
head ; and the want of exercise, air, and light are certain, ulti- 
mately, to produce disease and death. 

S. Insufficient food ; Indigestion. — The effect of either of these causes 
is deficient nutrition, the impoverishment of the blood, and the im- 
pairing of the general strength and tone of the system. This is so 
plainly favourable to the development of tuberculous disease, that 
no more need be said, except to point out the importance of early 
attention to indigestion in persons known to be predisposed to con- 
sumption. From the experience of the writer, he is inclined to be- 
lieve that it is one of the earliest symptoms of the vitiated state of 
the constitution, if not the immediate cause of the attack in a large 
number of cases. 

4. The attacks of fever, dissipation, the use of intoxicating drinks, and 
the d^ressing passions, are all fertile sources of the tuberculous cachexia. 
However much matter of-fact old people may sneer at what are 
called the romanticieelings of youth, and however lightly the dis- 
ftppoiutments and separations of early life may be treated by them, 



GUIDE FOR THE MILHON. Wb 

it is not to be denied that the deep sadness which oftea results, is t^Jo 
commonly the originator pf disease of fatal character, which de- 
velopes itself long after the operation of its primary cause, and wheit 
the " first love" and their sorrows have lost their intensity. 

5. Compression of the chest and a5c?07wew.— This last of general causes 
is fortunately becoming daily less prevalent. It is the unnatural, 
habit of binding up the body with belts or stays. The gradual pi©-; 
mulgation of popular physiology is triumphing over fashion ; an^? 
the directions of the minds of both sexes to art has taught them how, 
*1Sintirely ignorant of the highest personal beauty those persons are 
who still advocate stays and tight lacing. It is therefore unneces- 
sary to write more here. 

B. Special Cause Operating Locally. 

1. Exposure to cold. — This influence, by driving the blood from 
the surface for -a considerable time, of necessity overloads the vessels 
of the internal organs. As it is the duty of the skin to assist th^e 
lungs iu the performance of the function of perspiration, the e^TeCi- 
is to produce a congestion of the latter. Then passing from heated- 
rooms to a cool air, or the reverse, will also be calculated to produce 
an inflamationof the membrane which lines the air tubes of the 
lujigs: this inflamation readily seems to extend itself to the partic- 
ular tissue of which the lungs are composed. 

2. Dusty atmosphere. — Persons employed in workshops or plaeeiS 
where there is much dust, are also liable to suffer from the inflama-< 
tiou of the air tubes, or bronchia^ of the lungs. These persons hav« 
been found to be particularly liable to consumption. 

From what is written, it will strike the reader that to prevent 
consumption, it is chiefly necessary to remove or counteract the 
causes. How this i^ to be eJBfected we shall next proceed to ex- 
plain, first giving a general outline, in popular language, of the; 
earliest signs of the consumptive cachexia which are discoverable, 
by the non- professional eye. jj^ 



iWf MINE OP WEALTH; AND, 

The earliest signs of the tuberculous or consumptive cachexia 
which are noticeable by the non -professional eye, are : — the tumid 
cracked lip ; the red denuded eye ; the florid complexion ; soft skin 
and hair ; and the precocious mind. Long before the ear of the 
physician can discover auscultation, or percussion, the evidence of 
tubercles in the lungs, the constitution of the patient takes the 
alarm. The pulse becomes much more rapid, and differs very little 
when the patient is sitting or standing (which is not the case in 
he&.lth) ; the respiration becomes hurried, and is accelerated with a 
slight excitement. There is, moreover, a peculiar susceptibility to 
cold or heat. In females, the countenance is often as pallid as wax," 
with a shade of lividity about the lips, and at the root of the finger 
nails. The circulation in the hands, feet, ears, and nose, is disposed 
to be sluggish; and the fingers are apt to lose their sensibility, or, 
in common phraseology, to " become dead." With -these, other 
disturbances of the general health arise. There is a peculiar form 
of the nails of the fingers, which seems to be very often connected 
with the consumptive cachexia, and which may be best described 
by " bean shaped," the upper surface of the nail being rounded like 
a bean, or blister. 

The writer wishes to be distinctly understood that no one or tioo 
of these symptoms, taken alone, are to be received as a positive proof 
that any individual is " in a consumption." They are taken gener- 
ally as the early warnings of the approach of the disease, and, if 
heeded, will be the means of saving life by early attention. These 
symptoms do not indicate that the case is beyond hope. Consumption 

IS OtJBABLE IN THIS STAGE. 

Later — if the disease is not prevented by remedial means — a 
hacking cough, with a dull pain in the chest, and a sense of oppres- 
sion in the respiration, are complained of. The patient is unable 
to run up stairs with as great ease as before, and a sharp pain in 
the side follows unusual exercise. A copious perspiration is noticed 



GUIDE FOE THE MILLION, 167 

in bed before sunrise, and a loss of flesh and strength is per -i /ed. 
At this stage no time or exertion is to be lost, for there is a ch xNCE 
FOE THE PATIENT YET. 

A step further — and there is no more ground for hope — except 
for advent to a brighter world ! At this stage the treatment i.s di-,, 
rected only to alleviate, for cure is impossible; the care of the pa.-,. 
tient is wholly under the direction of the medical attendant and tlie 
nur§e. 

^, In the first part of this article, the writer alluded to the great ig- 
norance which existed on the subject of consumption, and stated 
that it was a popular error to suppose the disease incurable. The 
want of information as to the early symptoips of the disease, and the 
consequent neglect of preventive and correctiye means, have given 
a hopeless aspect to a large majority of cases, and afforded a fatal . 
confirmation of the generally received opinion. With a view to 
warn before it is too late, tp alarm before the time of hope is past, 
irrevocably,, .vret. hsiv^, e.ndftavouredj.v3|](y^r,f. ,.painute ; delineatiori f^^;, 
symptoms, to give to parents and relatiiires^.^bQi means of disco^;^ 
ering the approacji of ,a disease whic,ii 0OW eayries off one-fifth q^[ 
our population. 

The Treatment, for the sake of perspiciuitj, maybe divided 
into three periods, corresponding, to those sketched above: — 

I. Preventive — ^applying to the period of the earliest and most 
doubtful indications. ;r,j;i aTu^; i,i;i >:;.;'• .•^;- 

II. Alternative— applying, to the period when t.hgr#.is little 
doubt of the accession of the disease. >»» .o« 

.m. Ali^EYIATE — applying to ,tli^-. .period when the disease has 
made fatal progress. ,■ ,:,irfoF!^ n©frri-i)»a ouf .oau .jro.ijiw 

I. Preventive. — As far as poi^ible remove all known causes. jTjhe 
patient must be rigidly particular in rules of regimen and diet, , and 
food, sleep, and exercise, must betaken at regular . hours. Early 
risisng is essential. The dyspepsia, or any .othpr n^ialady of a weak- 



lt>8 \nNE OP wealth; and, 

«:-ning character, should be communicated to the medical attendant' 
without delay. Sea air and bathing; the use of the shower-bath 
or, if these cannot be obtained, the habit of sponging the body 
with cold salt water every morning, are remedies of which it is iih- 
possible to speak to highly. Cheerfulness should be promoted, and 
.solitude carefully prevented. The food should be of a light, nu- 
tritive character. Gymnastic exercises in company should be prac- 
tised, and sedentary employment in ill-ventilated rooms avoided. 

2. Alterative. — This portion of treatment, necessarily dift'ering 
with the peculiarities of each individual, must be guided in a great 
measure by a medical man. The common mistake is, not to consult 
a medical man until it is too late. The writer cannot forbear at this 
point urging the employment of gentlemen who are known to be 
thoroughly acquainted with the use of the stethoscope, and with the 
jippUcability of auscultation and percussion to the discovery of early 
signs of disease in the chest. Iodine in various forms, the use of 
emetics, careful depletion by leecHes, or the cupping-glasses applied 
beneatVi the collar bones, blisters in the same situations, and stimu- 
lating liniments applied to the chest, are the principal remedial mea- 
sures. Of the latter kind, the following liniment cannot be too 
highly commended ; — Take of oil of turpentine, one ounce ; acetic 
acid, one ounce, olive oil, two ounces; and the yolk of one egg'.' 
Mix, To be freely rubbed into the chest night and morning. 

3. Alleviative. — The treatment under this head is chiefly that of 
the sick room. The means to be used by the physician need not be 
alluded to. The friends of the patient should take care that he is 
phiced in a light, and well-ventilated room, which can be warmed 
without being close. The bed-linen should frequently be changed, 
and every exciting cause removed. The attendants should be kind 
and tender in manner and spirit, without any hastiness, or show of 
solicitude — teasing kindness is highly injudicious. Vinegar and 
water may be freely sprinkled about the room, and the hands of the 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 169 

sufferer sponged with it. The directions of the medical adviser 
should be strictly complied with ; if the patient objects, mild but 
fi*!m remonstrance will generally gain the acquiescence. The bed- 
curtains should never be drawn at night ; in the day they may be 
useful to screen the eyes, if they are dazzled by too strong light 
The desire for particular articles of food may, as a! general rule, be 
gratified in moderation; but the appetite and relish will very often 
depend upon the delicate cleanliness of the bearer, and the smallness 
of the quantity presented. 

Before laying down the pen, the Writer feels it his duty to sound 
* Warning voice to those who form their conceptions of Oonsump- 
ti'on from novels or romantic stories. It is not a painless disease, 
but one of prolonged suffering and distress. The pictures of the 
fading lily, or the drooping rose, have been favorite metaphors to 
illustrate the /anc?'e(i gliding to the grave by imperceptible grada- 
tions ; and popular poetry has spoken of the dwindling away of the 
thread of life, fibre by fibre, without struggle, or shock, or suffer- 
ing, till the gentle parting of the last filaments. To the young and 
romantic, such falsely colored pictures are perniciously attractive, 
and lead them to neglect and contemn the early remedial measures 
which ought to be actively adopted, whenever the slightest symp- 
tom of predisposition to tuberculous disease is detected. • 

DEVELOPMEisTT OF THE LuNGS.— Much has been said and written 
upon diet, eating and drinking, but scarcely a notice by any 
writer upon breathing or the manner of breathing. Multitudes, 
and especially ladies in easy circumstances, contract a vicious arid 
destructive mode of breathing. They suppress their breathing and 
contract the habit of short quick breathing, not carrying the breath 
half way down the chest, and scarcely expanding the lower portion 
of the chest at all. Lacing the bottom of the chest also greatly in- 
creases this evil, and confirms' a bad habit of breathing. Children 
that move about a great dedl inHhe'-open air, and in no Way laced. 



17Q MINE OF WEALTH; ANDp 

breathe deep and full in the bottom of the chest, and every part 
of it. So also with most out-door laborers, and persons who take 
a great deal of exercise in the open air, because the lungs give us 
the power of action, and the more exercise we take, especially out 
of doors, the larger the lungs become, and the less liable to disease. 
In all occupation^ that require standing, keep the person straight. 
If at table, let it be high, raised up nearly to the armpits, so as not 
to require you to stoop ; you will find the employment much easier 
— not one half so fatiguing ; whilst the form of the chest and sym- 
metry of the figure will remain perfect. You have noticed that a 
vast many tall ladies stoop, while a great many short ones are 
straight. This arises", we think from the table at which they sit or 
work, or occupy themselves, or study, being of a medium height — 
for a short one. This should be carefully corrected and regarded, 
so that each lady may occupy herself at the table to suit her, and 
thus prevent the, possibility or necessity pf stooping., It will be as 
well not to remain too long in a sitting position, but to rise occa- 
sionally, and thus relieve the body from its bending position. The 
arms could be moved about from time to time. 

Care op the Teeth. — Few people know the importance of teeth, 
and still fewer take proper care of them. Only when persons grow 
old and find them wanting, or when they suffer from their decay, do 
they properly appreciate their value. It is remarkable, that while 
man has only one set of any other organs during his life-time, he 
has two distinct sets of teeth ; and this fact may be admitted to show 
their great importance in the animal economy. Man properly has 
thirty-two teeth, which are fixed with great firmness to the jaws, 
which latter are moved by very powerful muscles, and the upper 
and lower rows of teeth are pressed towards each other with consid- 
erable force during the mastictltion of food. By these means, the 
substances eaten are broken, and macerated by the salivary juice 
which flows from the glands of the mouth during the presence 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. |^| 

of food. The subsequent digestion of food in the stomach muoh 
depends upon its perfect mastication ; if the teeth hare effeotivelj 
done their work, and reduced the food to a soft mass, the gas- 
tric juice of the stomach more easily dissolves it, and blood is the 
more speedily and completely formed therefrom, and the body the 
better nourished. Many people who have good teeth suffer indiges- 
tion from neglecting to properly use them ; and those who have 
them not are afflicted frjom their absence. To preserve the teeth, 
they should be regularly cleaned night and morning. Cleaiiliness 
in this respect much promotes personal elegance, and frees the 
breath from the disagreeable taint that would otherwise accompany 
it. The best tooth-powder is a. little pulverised charcoal. Cam- 
phor, or camphorated chalk, acts chemically upon the enamel (i. e. 
the hard white coating of the teeth which protects the soft bone and 
nervous structures beneath), and destroys it. Neglect of the teeth 
is so common, and the employment oif improper substances, a^ 
articles of diet so general, that comparatively few people have their 
teeth sound, and many suffer the excruciating pain termed tooth- 
ache. 'This pain is so severe that we should do right to interpret it 
as a warning to take proper care of parts so important to the 
welfare of the body. Creosote, oil of rtar^ lalcohol, opium, and other 
substances, are often employed as remedies for the tooth-ache. But 
these only aggravate the evil, by accelerating the decaj'", and often 
disordering the gums. The wisest course is, to seek prevention in 
cleanliness in the manner already pointed, out, and by living upon 
simple and pure articles of diet. Bjit when decay has taken its seat, 
the best remedy is to have the apertures filled with; a subsl.ance 
which hardens therein, and thus suppUes an artificial enamel to 
shield the nerve from irritation. 

Influence of Temper on Health. — Excessive labour, expoj 
sure to wet and cold, deprivation of sufficient quantities of neces- 
sary and wholesome food, habitual bad lodgingj. sloth, and intern- 



172 MINfi OF WEALTH; AND, 

perance, are all deadly enemies to human life; but they lire none of 
them so bad as violent and ungoverned passions. Men and women 
have survived all these, and at last reached an extreme old age ; 
but it maybe safely doubted whether a single instance can be found 
of a man of violent and irascible temper, habitually subject to 
storms of ungovernable passion^ who has arrived at a very advanced 
period of life. It is therefore, a matter of the highest importance to 
every one desirous to preserve " a souud mind in a sound body," so 
that the brittle vessel of life may glide down the stream of tim« 
smoothly and securely, instead of being continually tossed about 
amidst rocks and shoals which endanger its existence, to have a 
special care, amidst all the vicissitudes and trials of life, to maintain 
a quiet possession of his own spirit. 

Exposure to the Sun. — There are few points which seem less 
generally understood, or more clearly proved, than the fact that 
exposure to the sun, without creating free perspiration, will produce 
illness; and that the (same) exposure to the sun, with sufficient 
exercise, will not produce illness. Let any man sleep in the sun, 
he will awake perspiring and very ill — perhaps he will die. Let 
the same man dig in the sun for the same length of time, and he 
■will perspire ten tifnes as much, and be quite well. The fact is 
that not only the direct rays of the sun, but the heat of the atmos- 
phere, produce abundance of bile, and powerful exercise alone will 
carry off that bile. 

,'' Cholera. — All diseases are first germinal-— and are born — the 
birthplace of the germ of cholera is in the digestive canal — hence 
the ideas which imperfect science has attributed to what are called 
choleraic and non-choleraic habits of eating and drinking — the 
line is not yet defined in respect to dietetic treatment, and much 
harm is done by breeding apprehension about consuming fruit and 
vegetables — for cucumbers and the like, have removed as many 
predispositions to cholera as they have contributed to their devel- 



STJIDE FOR TM^ MILLIOIf. 173 

Cement. The principle vehicle of geiaaainal ckolera is the air— it 
nurses, atmospheric impurities. • ?.p^^rr-:'-ru-'q f - 

The sources of its supply, are tke exhalations from a porous soil im- 
pregnated with decaying vegetable matter, and the discharges of per- 
sons affected with the disease-— but in all conditions of production, 
there may yet be Wanting a power to attack, for it is proved that in 
the absence of dejection and fear, the most potent assault may be re* 
sisted, provided the contact be not so direct as to overpower these 
guards. That is to say, a continuance in a cholera-generating at- 
mosphere or the non-- removal and destruction of the fsecal discharge 
of patients. 

Standing water collects on its surface whatever the atmosphere 
has to contribute, and when it is understood that dust is settling on 
It through the poisoned air continually it will be understood that 
none but freshly drawn water should be ever used in cholera times. 
It is a disease, of which it may be truly said, " Remove the cause 
and the effect will cease." 

The Feet.— To preserve the feet in a proper condition, they 
should be frequently soaked, and well washed in warm or tepid 
water. The nails of the toes should be pared to prevent their 
becoming inconveniently long, and from growing into the flesh. 
Malny persons suffer severely from tender feet. This generally arises 
from the use of thin cotton or silk stockings, and tight boots or 
shoes, that are not sufficiently porous to permit of the escape of the 
perspiration. The best treatment is the immediate adoption of 
worsted stockings or socks, and light easy shoes of buckskin, goat- 
akin, or some otber equally soft kind of leather. It is highly neces- 
sary, for the preservation of health, to preserve the feet dey ; persons 
who are, therefore, exposed to the wet, or who are frequently pas- 
sengers through the public streets in bad weather, should regard 
sound and good boots and shoes as the most essential portion of their 
clothing. In fact, in a hygienic point of view, a wet back should 



flV!t4 MINE OP wealth; and, 

.;be less shunned than wet feet. Many persons frequently experidiice 
extreme coldness and numbness of the feet ; the best remedies for 
such are exercise and friction. In these cases stockings of flannel 
or worsted alone should be worn, and should be kept on throughout 
the night if required. The peculiar and disagreeable odor which is 
evolved by the feet of some individuals in hot weather, may be 
removed by the observance of extreme cleanliness, and by joccasion- 
ully soaking the feet in warm water, to which a small quantity of 
ichloride of lime has been added. ^ 

RECEIPTS. -^"^ 

BTsH'TROftllf. 'liitJXW !_ 

Astliilia. — This disease is generally brought on (except where it is 
hereditary) by sudden exposure to heat and cold, to unwholesome air, 
fetid smells, by hard drinking, full meals, violent exercise, and by cold, 
damp, and foggy weather. Generally speaking its attacks are confined to 
the later period of life, and the violence of each fit seldom exceeds two or 
three hours in duration. Persons thus afflicted should avoid the above 
causes, keep themselves dry and warm, wear flannel, keep the bowels 
regular, and the stomach in order/ '^'^'' ^ - tHiii 

'■ Asthma Drailg'hI. — Vinegar of squills half a drachm; ipeca' . 
iianha wine, fifteen drops ; cinnamon water, one and a half ounces. 
Mix and take as a draught three times a day. 

Ai^tliBlia ITIixtlire. — Milk of gum ammoniacum, three ounces ; 
syrup of squills, two ounces ; ipecacuanha wine, one ounce. Mix and 
take a small teaspoonful, three or four times a day as an expectorant. 

S — A Tonic. — Infusion of cardavilla, three ounces ; infusion of gen- 
tian, two ounces; simple syrup, one ounce. Mix and take two table- 
spoonsful three times a day. 
.g; AsthMia Pills. — Compound iron pills, two drachms ; extract of gen- 
tian, one drachm ; Mix and divide into sixty pills and take two each night 
and morning. 

CiBi'C for Asthma. — Saturate some brown paper(that is to say the 
old fashioned tar brown) in acetic acid diluted, or vinegar, and dry it ofl". 
When the asthma is distressing, some of this may be burned ; and the 
§moke breathed. This is a quick relief. 



OtriDE FOR THE MILLION. 175 

Astringrent Pills, for Diarrhea. — Alum, six grains; extract 
of opium, one grain ; powdered catechu, twenty grains. Make into six 
pills, and take one after each motion 

"Wasli for Weak Eyes.— Compound liquor of alum, half In 
ounce; rose water, five Ounces; laudanum, sixty drops. Shake we*Il 
before using — wash the eyes with it two Or three times a day. 

Cough Mixture. — Paregoric, ten ounces ; tincture of castor, four 
ounces ; laudanum, one ounce ; tinture of cochineal, half an ounce ; oil of 
aniseed dropped on a lump of sugar, fifteen drops. Mix and take a tea- 
spoonful or more according tO the severity of the attack, three times a 
day. 

Compound liead Cerate. — For burns, scalds, excoriations, &c. — 
Solution of diacetate of lead, three ounces; white wax, four ounces; olive 
oil, half a pint; camphor half a drachm. Prepare it by adding eight 
ounces ofthe oil to the melted wax, and as sOoh as it begins to cool, add 
the solution of lead, and continue the stirring until cold ; then add the 
camphor dissolved in the remaining portions of the oil. 
'-' DisinTectlBlg' Agents. — Common copperas which costs but a few 
•'feents per pound, is perhaps one of the most efficient and econoniical 
disinfecting agents known. If tWo pounds of copperas be dissolved in 
ten quarts of Water, and the solution poured into the gutters, sinks, 
cesspools, and other places where filth necessarily accumulates, its 
deoderizing power will become speedily and convincingly apparent. 
Every housekeeper should provide a quantity ofthe article, and keep it 
constantly on hand, to be used when wanted. The unpleasant odor 
emanting from the barn yard, and other places where manure is stored 
or kept during the hot weather, ordinarily experienced during the vernal 
and summer months, is speedly neutralized by asligWt sprinkling of this 
solutioUj asiwell as the extremely unpleasant smell engendered by decay- 
ing animal and vegetable substances in cellars and outhouses, and which 
it is frequetttly found, diflficult to prevent. Copperas is also an excellent 
manure. It acts as an absorbent alnd fixer of the gaseous and volatile 
products of decomposition, and thus becomes an efficient medium of 
their transportation to the field where they are required to give energy 
to vegetable life. Sulphuric acid — another cheap article, which like 
copperas can be obtained of the druggists in any desirable quantity — is 
also a most desirable article for this purpose. If used in a diluted state 
and sprinkled over the floors of the stables and other buildings where 
animals are kept, it will in a short time disinfect the same of all nau- 



176 MINK OF WBALTH; AN©, 

seous and unpleasant odors, and render the atftttosphere perfectly pure 
and sweet. Like copperas it is also a good manure. Another article of 
great efficiency is found by slacking quick lime to a thick, plastic con- 
sistency, with water saturated with salt. This is what may be p^'operly 
called domestic chloride of lime, being in every respect similar to, if 
not strictly identical with, the chloride of lime found at the stores aqd 
shops, although it comes at less than one-twentieth the cost. 

To restore the Color of the Hair. — Tincture acetate of iron, 
one ounce; water, one pint; glycerine, half an ounce; sulphuret potass- 
ium, five grains. Mix well and let the bottle remain uncovered to pass 
out the foul smell arising from the potassium. Afterwards add a few 
drops of bergamot or other essence. Rub a little of this daily into the 
hair, and it will not only restore it to its original color, but benefit tjje 
health. 

Cure Tor Sore throat. — Dissolve some powdered borax in one 
ounce of glycerine and four ounces of hot water, and use as a gargle. 
It will cure the most inveterate sore throat. 

Choritic Diarrhea. — Pulverised rhubarb, bicarbonate of soda 
tincture of camphor, each one drachm ; essence of peppermint, two 
drachms ; sulphate of morphia, ten grains ; white sugar, four ounces ; 
boi4ing water, one pint. Dose, a tablespoonful twice a day. 

To remove unpleasant odors from the Person.-^Tbe 

unpleasant odor arising from perspiration can be removed eflfectually by 
putting about two tablespoonsful of the compound spirits of ammonia in 
a basin of water, and washing the face, hands and arms in it; it will leave 
the skin as clean, sweet, and fi'esh as one could wish. It is not only 
perfectly harmless and cheap, but more efficacious than any of the costly 
unguents and perfumes of the day now in use. 

Disintectin^ Powder. — Thoroughly mix one hundred pounds 
of finely pulverized quick lime, twenty pounds of dry charcoal powder, 
ten pounds of dry sawdust or peat, and half a pound of crude carbonic 
acid. The acid is to be first stirred into the sawdust, and then added to 
the other ingredients, and the powder distributed in infected places, 
thoroughly purifies them. 

Water Purifier. — A teaspoonful of powdered alum thrown into 

a pailful of muddy or turbid water will precipitate the impurities to the 

bottom, leaving tiie water clear and all the better for drinking purpoaes 

on account of the alum. 

at iifw }i ^qo>i dijs »iMmm» 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION". ^ff 

malignant Scarlet Fever and iSore Throat.— Mix two 

tablespoonsful of capsicums, with one teaspoonful of salt, infused for one 
hour in a pint of boiling liquid composed of equal pai'ts of water and 
rinegar. Strain when cool. If the case is a very serious one take half 
an ounce for an adult every half hour. The same to be taken as a gargle. 
ClironiC [Diarrhea may be permanently cured by a diet of pure 
cow's milk, or such articles as bread and milk — in which milk is mainly in 
use but for drink milk only must be taken. This must be faithfully fol- 
lowed out for three weeks. 

Toothache cured instantaneously.— Dissolve one part of 
mastic in one part of ether. A yellow oily substance is the result, which 
is to be kept in a well stoppered bottle. Saturate a small piece of cotton 
rOf the size of the cavity in the tooth, and introduce it without painful 
pressure, so as to fill the cavity exactly. The ether evaporates while 
the rosin remains protecting the tooth from the action of air and food 
taken into the mouth. .qinAlvJ to tfjl'.tii> "^ 

To cure HiCCOUg^h or HiiCi;uii.^Tl)i's^ spasm is caused by flat- 
ulency, indigestion, and acidity. It may be relieved generally by a 
sudden fright or surprise, or any sudden application of cold, also by 
Swallowing two or three mouthfuls of cold water, by eating a small 
piece of ice, taking a pinch of snufiF, or anything that excites coughing. 

Cure tor iSnake Bites. — Make a paste of ipecacuana and apply 
to the bite. This simple remedy has performed some wonderful cures 
not only of bites from venemous snakes, but also of stings of scorpions, 
centipedes, and various poisonous fish. Equally efficacious is it to 
bathe the wound with strong liquid ammonia, and then apply a linen 
cloth saturated with the same to the affected part. 

Cure ibr Burns and Scalds.— Dissolve from twenty to forty 
grains of crystalized nitrate of silver in an ounce of water, and apply 
it to the burn or scald (over the whole surface) with a camel's hair 
brush. It immediately furnishes a complete protection to the inflamed 
surface, subdues thep^ip, arrests the serous discharge, and promotes 
Ik speedy cure. < ')o f.rin 

Rheumatism. — A slight attack of rheumatism can be readily 
checked and cured by dissolving half an ounce of camphor m eight 
ounces of spirit of turpentine, and thoroughly rubbing the parts af- 
fected morning and evening with it, and covering with flannel. If the 
attack is a very severe one then take one ounce of g^um' guiacum in 



^^§ MINE OF WEALTH ; AND, 

powder and infuse it in a bottle of rum. Take half a gill at night as a 
perspirant, and keep well covered. 

Remedy lor Yelloir Fever. — In the incipient stages of yellow 
fever, a teaspoonful of pulverized charcoal taken three times a day in a 
glass of water will eflFect a cure. And where it is prevailing as an 
epidemic, by taking the cha,rcoal in the above manner it will act as a pre- 
ventive. 

To Destroy Stomach Worms. — Turpentine taken in doses 
from ten drops for a child of three years of age, to a dessert spoonful, 
according to the age of the pei'son, taken in the morning fasting, next 
day an ordinary dose of rhubarb, the turpentine and rhubarb to be 
thus taken alternately for three days each will destroy stomach worms. 
During the time of taking the turpentine and rhubarb it is necessary to 
avoid liquids of all kind as much as possible, and also abstain from 
eating greasy food. 

To Cure attacks of Cramp.— Persons when attacked with 
cramp, whether in the feet, legs, stomach, or any other part will obtain 
immediate relief by holding in the hand a stick of rolled brimstone, when 
it comes on. At such time the brimstone crackles and emits an offensive 
odor, which is not the case unless the cramp is present. If the attack 
is severe, the brimstone as soon as touched breaks into pieces ; after the 
same piece has been used several times, it loses its power and a new 
piece must be resorted to. To lay it in the palm of the hand is suificient. 
It does not relieve from pain by applying it to the part affected 
with cramp. 

Excellent Fumig^ator. — A few spoonsful of fresh ground 
coffee spread and exposed on a plate, and burned with a red hot iron is 
a safe, and pleasant fumigator. It will immediately destroy any foul air 
or smell existing in the room and has a tendency to promote a healthy 
atmosphere for siok persons to inhale. ' 

Cooling ]>rink. — Cream of tartar, two ounces; two lemons 
peeled and squeezed, white sugar, four ounces ; place in a stone jug or 
vessel that will not crack and four or six quarts of boiling water. Let 
cool and bottle for use. Instead of sugar, three tablespoonsful of rasp- 
berry vinegar and six ounces of honey can be used — it gives a richer 
flavor. The above is excellent in case of fever. "* 

Cure for Corns. — Roast a clove of garlic on a bright coal or m 
botashee.; appply it to the cora and tie. on with a piece of cloth just 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 179 

before going to bed. Renew the application two or three times in the 
twenty four hours washing the foot on removing the old garlic. After 
a few days steady application the thick skin which forms the horny 
coating of the corn will disappear, and the corn itself, no matter how 
inveterate will be softened to such a degree that it can be loosened and 
wholly removed with the finger nail, 

Anotlier, — Dr, Hall in his Journal of Health says — "Never let 
anything harder than your finger nail touch a corn. The worst kind 
are controllable as follows ; — Soak the feet in quite warm water for 
half an hour before going to bed, then rub on the corn with your finger, 
for several minutes, some common sweet oil. Do this every night and 
morning. Bind on the corn during the day two or three thicknesses 
of buck skin, with a hole in the centre to receive the corn. In less than 
a week, in ordinary cases, if the corn does not fall out, you can pinch it 
out with your fingernail." 

Casreiba* Tootfe-achie.-— Eflfectual where there is no rheumatism; 
Impalpably powdered alum, two drachms ; nitrous spirits of ether, sevea 
"drachms f mix well and apply to the tooth. 

Cure for ttie §tilig' of a Bee.— Instant relief can be obtained 

by pressing on the place stung with the tube of a key. This extracts 
the stiug and relieves the pain, and the application of common spirits 
of hartshorn will immediately remove it. 

Tonic for Indigestion. — Twenty grains each of rhubarb, gen- 
tian, cartoriate of iron, and Spanish liquorice ; pour on them a pint 
of boiling water, and take of the cold infusion two tafelespoonsful three 
times a day,. 

fiime water. — Quick lime, one part ; water, sixteen parts ; mix, 
and after a short interval, shake well^ then let stand to settle and 
decant the clear liquid. This article should be both made and kept in a 
close vessel. 

SlMelling §alts. — Subcarbonate of ammonia, eight parts ; put it 
in coarse powder into the bottle, and pour on it oil of lavender one 
part, keep well stopped. 

Blood Purifier. — Take of white sugar, rice and starch each eight 
ounces; ground sarsaparilla six ounces, ground senna, four ounces; 
finely pulverize the whole separately, then mix them well and take a® 
« dose a tablespoonftil three times a day. 



180 MINK OF WEALTH; AND, 

Instant Relief liininient. — No family should be without this 

preparation. It is invaluable in the removal of pains of any kind. It 
must be well rubbed in, and but a small quantity used at a time as it is 
very penetrating. Where the pain is internal in addition to tlie out- 
ward application from twenty to thirty drops can be taken on some 
sugar : Alcohol, ninty-five per cent, half a gallon ; cayaput oil and 
essence of capsicum, each half an ounce ; of cloves and oil of sassafras 
each half one ounce ; oil of cedar, one drachm. — Mix well and keep well 
stoppered. 

Purgative Pills. — Colocinth, eight grains; calomel, three 
grains ; rhubarb eight grains ; — make into three pills. 

For Parking:, Teethings and Botrel ConipSaint in 
Children. — Calcined magnesia, one scruple ; powdered rhubarb, 
thirty grains; carbonate of soda, fifteen gains; essence of mint, five 
drops ; water two ounces. Mix well and always shake up before giving. 
Dose, a teaspoonful every two hours until relieved. 

Hooping Cough Half a scruple of cochineal, one scrapie salt 

of tartar, one gill of pure water ; mix well together and sweeten with 
loaf sugar. A teaspoonful three times a day is a dose for a child. 

To Ulake the Hair Grow. — This preparation has met with 
most flattering success where every thing else has failed : — Tincture 
cantharides, two ounces ; proof spirit, two ounces ; mix well, then cold 
drawn castor oil, two and a half ounces ; sweet oil, two and a half ounces ; 
best French brandy, two ounces ; add a few drops of bergamot. Mix 
the whole well and apply to the head daily. 

€iolden Ointment, for Piles, 8ores, &c.— Clear white lard 
one pound ; brown beeswax, eight ounces ; camphor, laudanum and 
areganum each one ounce ; alcohol, five ounces. Melt the lard, bees- 
wax and camphor and then add in the other ingredients whilst milk 
warm. Mix well and preserve in tin boxes. Apply three times a day. 

Chilblain Ointment. — Ointment of nitrate of mercury, one 
ounce ; camphor, one drachm ; oil of turpentine, two drachms ; oil of 
olives, four drachms ; mix well together, and apply by gentle friction 
two or three times a day. 

Cough mixture. — Dose a teaspoonful in a little warm tea 
whenever the cough is troublesome. Tincture of tolu, a quarter of an 
oonce; paregoric elixir and tincture of squills, each half an ounce;, 
gyrup of white poppies, one oauGe. Mix welL 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 181 

^, — As a draught, to be taken in a little warm tea at night on going 
to bed — syrup of poppies, one dessert spoonful, of antimonial wine 
twenty drops ; — this is for a single dose. 

A FistMla Specific. — Sulphate zinc one ounce; sulphate copper 
one ounce; best, gunpowder one ounce ; warm water one quart. 

WaHU de Cologne. — Oil of bergamot, one ounce ; oil of cedar, one 
ounce ; oil of orange peel one ounce ; oil of lemon peel one ounce ; oil 
of orange flowers one ounce; oil rosemary fifty drops ; camphor, six 
grains ; spirits of wine sixty degrees above proof, three quarts. Shake 
well about fifteen minutes and then let stand a fortnight without stirring ; 
filter and put in eau de cologne bottles. 

Fever and Ague Mixture. — Peruvian bark, two ounces ; sal 
tartar or salts of Wormwood (either) twenty grains ; snake root, twelve 
drachms ; alcohol, eight ounces ; water, eight ounces. Digest fortwenty- 
four hours, shaking occasionally. Dose from a tablespoonful to a wine- 
glassful three times a day. 

©issBiiecting" Fluid. — Mix one half of a pound of chloride of 
lime, and one quarter of an ounce of sulphuric acid in one gallon of 
tvater. Shake well before using. This solution sprinkled about yards, 
or rooms of houses will remove all foul or putrid smells, and is an excel- 
lent preventive to the spread of cholera and other contagious diseases. 

Cure for l>ruilkeMliess.' — Sulphate of iron, five grains ; mag- 
nesia, ten grains ; peppermint water, eleven drachms ; spirit of nutmeg, 
one drachin. Take a teaspoonful twice a day for a few weeks or months 
for inveterate topers and it will efi'ect a perfect cure. 

FIsEOr Altous. — Take twenty drops of muriated tincture of iron 
Ihrco times a day — after the third day increase the dose to twenty-five 
dropt^ ; wash the teeth well after taking otherwise the enamel will be 
injured. This will cure most severe cases by taking it«as above and 
with royula.rity. 

BiiMEaedj^ ihr CliilbSains. — Boil some turnips, and mash them 
until reduced to a pulp ; put them into a tub or large basin, and put the 
feet into ihem, also as hot as can be borne, for a short time before going 
to bed. persevere in doing this for a few nights, and the itching and ir- 
ritation of the chilblains will be cured ; of course this must be before the 
chilblains are broken. 

For llae Ca'oup. — Saturated tartar of antimony two grains ; calo- 
mel one grain. Mix in a marble mortar with ten grains of fine sugar. 



182 MINE OP WEALTH; AND, 

Olive Ointment, for sore, weak or inflamed £yes. — 
Fresh unsalted butter, three ounces ; white wax, half an ounce. Melt 
them together on a plate and then add, red precipitate two and a half 
drachms ; camphor, one drachm ; zinc, one drachm ; olive oil, twelve 
drops. Mix all well in together until quite cold. Put a small bit on the 
eyes on going to bed at night and place over it a bandage wetted with 
cold slippery elm water. 

Congh Syrup, and for Sore Lungs.— Take the outside 
shaggy bark of the sweet Hickory tree (white hickory) and put in a 
large pot with plenty of water ; boil from six to eight hours to extract 
and concentrate. Add white sugar^whilst yet warm, just enough to 
make sweetly palatable. Dose, a wine glassful three or four times a 
day according to the severity of the attack. ' 

Diarrhea mixture. — Tincture of ginger, three ounces ; essence 
anise, essence of peppermint, and paregoric each half an ounce. Mix 
well. Take a teaspoonful every half hour until relieved, and two or 
three doses afterwards. 

2. — Smartweed, two parts ; tansy one part ; ginseng, one part : make 
into a strong tea and drink about one third or half a teacupful every 
half hour or hour according to the severity of the attack. Thousands 
have used this with beneficial effect. 

3. — A strong tea made from the bark of the Cashu fruit tree. A 
half a tumbler every hour until relieved. The Indians of Central and 
South America use this in preference to all other other remedies. It is 
effectual. 

To remove Warts. — Rub the warts at night going to bed with 
the following ointment — ^Nitrate mercurial ointment, one drachm ; arsen- 
ical powder, one gi'ain. It will effect a safe and speedy cure of them. 

Severe ]>ysentry. — Four grains of Dover's powders every two 
hours until relieved. Give also one or more ounces of either Gum 
arabic, linseed or starch water, with a few drops of laudanum. 

3. — Take a tumbler of cold water and thicken with flour to the con 
sistency of cream, and drink it. Repeat several times during the daj 
and as often as thirsty. 

3. — Take a teacup half full of vinegar and dissolve in it as much salt 
as it will bear keeping the salt a little in excess. Add boiling water 
until the cup is two thirds full. Skim it and let cool, then bottle down 
for use. Dose, tablespoonful three times a day. 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 183 

Suspended Animation.— In cases where a body is found in a 
suspended state, and life is seemingly extinct, the chief remedy consists 
in cupping the temples or opening the jugular vein, and so relieving the 
head of the blood which accumulates in its superficial veins in conse- 
quence of the ligature. Where the body is cold, from having been long 
suspended, friction, and the other means used for restoring the animal 
heat in drowned persons, should be likewise resorted to. Electricity or 
galvanism may also be of service. 

For a $$wollen Face arising^ from Toothaclae.— Get a 

poppyhead, and boil it in about a pint of water, and bathe the face with 
it, as hot as you can bear it, twice a day ; the swelling will go down in 
two or three days. 

Chloride of liime left standing in an open vessel will keep 
places and rooms sweet, that are liable to be disagreeable to the smell. 

Healing Ointment for IWounds. — Take a quarter ounce of 
white wax, and a half an ounce of spermaceti, and put them in a small 
basin, with two ounces of almond oil. Place the basin beside the tire 
till the ingredients aredissolved ; when cold the ointment is ready for use. 

Remedy for Deafness. — Cleanse the ear out thoroughly by 
means of a pledget of lint or cotton with warm water ; afterwards soak 
apiece of cotton in some glycerine, which insert in the ear ; after a few 
applications you will find relief. Grlyeerine is the sugar of oil. 

Cure for Cold Feet. — Almost any one may protect themselves 
from chilled feet in walking who insert horsehair with the soles of 
their stockings after the manner of running heels. 

liO^V Spirits. — The best remdey is one teaspoonful of spirits of 
lavender, and drops of spirits of hartshorn in half a wine glassful of cold 
water. 

Bilious Powder. — ^Potophelia, two grains ; sectarine aloes, half 
a grain ; cream of tartar a teaspoonful. Mix well. One dose. 

Foul .^toanach or derangement of the L«iver. — Soda, 
rhubarb, and pulverized peppermint each one ounce. Mix well. Take 
a teaspoonful every morning for three successive mornings, repose for 
three and again repeat until relieved. 

Boils.— Boils and their kindred symptoms of inflamation may be 
arrested by creosote — it is an effectual local remedy, but if a core has 
formed the only remedy is its riddance by the poultice. 



1S4 MINE OF WEALTH; AND, 

Cant* cr. — The efficacy of figs in hastening the absorption of in- 
fi n mat ory particles in a cancerous sore is indisputable. Raw bruised 
ripe, cold cranberries are also an excellent application. A confirmed 
cancer may bo taken out without using the knife by a plaster of ar- 
st^nio co\'ered with cobweb, and properly protected. Keep it on and 
linio will take it out. 

r 

Cla'<i|>p<cd ISands. — Five grains of bismuth thoroughly incor-' 
purato(l with an ounce of simple cerate is a speedy cure. 

Cssvc tfbr Felons. — As soon as the parts begin to swell get the 
tiiictiiR! of lobelia, and wrap the affected part with a cloth saturated thor- 
oughly with the tincture, and the felon is dead. 

I?I"\l9ire to R^-iitore the Appetite. — ^Gentian root sliced, 
quarter of an ounce ; fresh orange and lemon peel, each one ounce; tinc- 
lure of rhubarb one ounce ; compound tincture of cardamons half an 
ounce ; spirits of red lavender, quarter of an ounce ; boiling water one 
piiu. Tour the water on the gentian and peels, and macerate for two 
l;.)U"s; strain, and add the other ingredients; and if it be wanted very 
( !ear. it may be filtered through blotting paper; lastly, add two ounces 
of lump sugar. Dose. A small wine-glassful early in the morning or 
shortly before dinner. 

A cure iov Blistered Feet. — Rub the feet, at going to bed, 
with spirits mixed with tallow, dropped from alighted candle into the 
palm of the hand. On the following morning no blisters will exist. 

A good CJargle for sore Throat. — Tincture of myrrh, two 
diachnis; common water, four ounces; vinegar, half-an-ouuce. Mix. 

Itemedy Ibr a Sprain. — Take camphorated spirit, common 
vinegar, spirits of turpentine of each, one ounce. 

ISeareBiss from Deficient iSecretion of W^ax.— Take oil 
of turpentine, half a drachm ; olive oil, two drachms. Mix. Two 

r,i<>ps to be introduced into the ear at bed-time 

ISSeeding at the I¥ose. — To stop this malady, which is some-' 
times alarming, it is recommended by Dr. Negrier (who has extensively 
ivied it) simply to elevate the patient's arm. — The explanation is based 
upon physiological grounds ; the greater force required to propel the 
biood through the vessels of the arm when elevated, causes the pres- 
sure upon the vessels of the head to be diminished by the increased 
action which takes place in the course of the brachial arteries (the ar- 
teries of the arms). If the theory be sound, both arms should be ele- 
vated. 



GUIDE Ton THE MILLION. 18f 

Cholera asftd Boirel Complaonfs. — Rhubarb powder half 
a drachm; calcined magnesia one dram ; paregoric elixir one ounce; 
peppermint water half a pint. Mix and shake up, and take two table- 
spoonsful every three hours till relieved. — The following is a better 
prescrij)tion for the same purpose : — Take of chalk mixture eight ounces: 
aromatic confection one dram; compound tincture of camphor three 
draclims ; oil of carraway three or four drops. Mix. Take two table- 
spoonfuls every three hours, or oftener, if the pain and purging is urgent. 
A teaspoonful is a dose for young children, and one tablespoonful for 
those of ten or twelve years of age. 

Ear Ache. — Sometimes ear ache is connected with chronic ulcera- 
tion in the internal and external part of the eai*, when injections of 
warm Avat<n- and soap are advisable. In this case, there is sometimes a 
constant foetid discharge, for which the following mixture is recom- 
mended : — Take of ox-gall, three drachms : balsam of Peru, one drachm 
Mix. A drop or two to be put into the ear with a little cotton. ' ' 

For !§hortness of* Breath, or DifilciiU Breathing^. 

Vitrolated spirits of ether, one ounce ; camphor twelve grains. Make 
a solution, of which take a teaspoonful during the paroxysm. This is 
usually found to afford instantaneous relief in difficulty of breathing, 
depending on internal disease, and other causes, where the patient, from 
a very quick and laborious breathing, is obliged to be in an erect pos- 
ture. 

Sedative C^mtment. — The violent local irritation which 
often follows the application of blisters to the surface of children, is a 
serious objection to their use, iand requires that particular care be taken 
to lessen the liability of sloughing, &c. Should, however, the ulcer be 
irritable, the following ointment thickly spread on lint will be found ser- 
viceable ; — Lime water, oil of almonds, of each, half an ounce ; mix . 
well together, then add prepared lard one ounce. 

Seidlits Powders. — Two drachms of tartarised soda and two 
scruples of bicarbonate of soda for the blue packet, and thirty grains of 
tartaric acid for the white papers. 

Rose liBp ^alve. — Eight ounces sweet almond oil, four ounces 
prepared mutton suet, half an ounce white wax, two ounces spermaceti, 
twenty drops otto ; steep a small quantity of alkanet root in the oil, 
and strain before using. Melt the suet, wax, and spermaceti together, 
then add the coloric oil and otto. 



186 MINE OF wealth; AND, 

A Valuable Receipt for the Tic Dolor eux.— Take half a 
pint of rose water, add two teaspoonful of white vinegar, to form a lo- 
tion. Apply it to the part affected three or four times a day. It re- 
quires fresh linen and lotion each application ; this will, in two or 
three days, gradually take the pain away, 

[At least three hundred " infallible cures" for the doloreux have been 
discovered. The disease arises from such various causes, that no 
remedy can be relied upon. Carbonate of iron cures one ; quinine 
another ; upon a third these remedies have no effect. The remedy 
here suggested is safe and simple.] j, 

To Cure the 8tiiig of a Wasp. — Apply oil of tartar, or solu- 
tion of potash, to the part affected, and it will give you instant ease. 

To prevent Infection from Typhus Fever. — Six drachms 
of powdered salt-petre, six ounces oil of vitrei ; mix them in a tea-cup 
by adding one drachm of the oil at a time. The cup to be placed during 
the preparation on the hearth, and to be stirred with a tobacco-pipe. 
The cup to be placed in different parts of the room. 

An excellent Remedy for iSprainsi. — Put the white of an 
egg into a saucer, keep stirring it with a piece of alum about the size 
of a walnut until it becomes a thick jelly ; apply a portion of it on a 
a piece of lint or tow large enough to cover the sprain, changing it for 
a fresh one as often as it feels warm or dry ; the limb is to be kept in 
an horizontal position by placing it on a chair. 

For Rheumatism^ Bruises, &.C. — One raw egg well beaten, 
half a pint of vinegar, one ounce of spirits of turpentine, a quarter of an 
ounce of spirits of wine, a quarter of an ounce of camphor. These in- 
gredients to be bqaten well together, then put in a bottle and shaken 
for ten minutes, after which, to be corked down tightly to exclude the 
air. In half an hour it is fit for use. Directions ; — To be well rubbed 
in, two, three, or four times a day. For rheumatism in the head, to be 
rubbed at the back of the neck and behind the ears. This liniment can 
be made at home for twenty five cents ; if not made at home, the drug- 
gist should be told to follow the prescription exactly. 

Antidote Against Poison. — Hundreds of lives might be saved 
by a knowledge of this single receipt. A large teaspoonful of mustard 
mixed in a tumbler of warm water, and swallowed as soon as possible, 
acts as an instant emetic, sufficiently powerful to remove all that is 
lodged in the stomach. , , . , ... . , 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 187 

. Pain^i, In the Stomach. — Sudden spasmodic pains in the 
stomach may be safely relieved by swallowing one or two small wine- 
glassesful of rum. Whereinflamation exists, it should not be given. 

' Treatment ol* Bruises. — The best application for a bruise, be 
it large or small, is moist warmth ; therefore a warm bread and water 
poultice, or hot moist flannels, should be put on, as they supply the skin 
so that it yields to the pressure of the blood beneath, and thereby the 
pain is lessened. If the bruises be severe, and in the neighborhood of a 
joint, it is well to apply some leeches on grown-up persons, but not on 
young children. The poulticing or fomenting should be continued so 
long as the pain and swelling remain ; and it may be sometimes neces- 
sary to put on the leeches a second, or even a third time. If the bruise 
be a joint, the poulticing will often require to be continued longer, on 
account of the stiffness which usually remains for some time; and when 
left off it is well to wrap up the joint in a soap plaster. If the bruised 
part be on the knee or ankle, walking should not be attempted till it can 
be performed without pain. A " black eye," is generally no more than 
a bruise of the eyelids, spreading more or less oyer the face, according 
to the size of the instrument by which it is inflicted. The great num- 
ber of persons who get a black eye deserve it, and so for as I am aware 
there is no remedy save warm bathing, which will hasten its removal, 
but it is often a very tedious business. 

To correct Offensive Breath. — Nothing is so good as con- 
centrated solution of choloride of soda. From six to ten drops of it in 
a wine-glassful of pure spring water, taken immediately after the opera- 
tions of the morning are completed, will instantly sweeten the breath, 
by disinfecting the stomach, which, far from being injured will jbe bene- 
fited by the medicine. If necessary, this may be repeated in the mid- 
dle of the day. In some cases the odor arising from carious teeth is 
combined with that of the stomach. If the mouth be well rinsed with 
a teaspoonful of the solution of the chloride in a tumbler of water, the 
bad odor of the teeth will be removed. 

Antidote ibr Rattlesnake Poison. — The following is an 
infallible cure for the poison of a rattlesnake bite ; — Four grains of the 
iodate potash : two grains of corrosive ^sublimate : five drachms of 
bromine ; Mix together, and keep the mixture in a glass stoppered vial, 
well secured. Ten drops of this mixture, diluted with a teaspoonful of 
brandy, constitute a dose : the quantity to be repeated, if necessary, 
according to the exigencies of the case. 



'1^8 MINE OP WEALTH; AND, 

JDiptlicria. — A kind of throat disease, whicli has recently made 
its app3iiraace in the United States aad Earope, and proved very fatal. 
It consists in the formation of a false peculiar membrane, the origin of 
which is somewhat obscure ; it attacks the tonsils, part of the tongue 
the pharynx, the epiglottis, the larynx, and the trachea: causing suffo- 
cation by stopping the air passage. It has occurred in localities where 
po mnglignant and fatal a form of disease could scarcely have been 
looked for: where the surrounding country was open and beautiful, and 
the soil dry, and the persons attacked were not among the most wretched 
and ill-fed. Its character is peculiarly treacherous and insidious, 
being first so slight as to be scarcely noticeable. By the time medical 
advice is sought, the peculiar exudation has reached the air passages, 
and death shortly ensues often by syncope, when the case appears to be 
progressing favorably. Hitherto, medical measures have been attended 
with but little success ; the best is unquestionably the application of 
strong caustic to the throat at the earliest possible period ; hydrochloric 
acid is recommended; this appears to stop the progress of the false 
membrane; but when this has reached the trachea, and bronchih there 
is little hope for the patient. It is believed by some that this disease 
is to the respiratory membrane what thrush is to the intestinal, having 
a confervid origin, and that the effect of the poison, when absorbed is 
in its elimination, to set up an aestnenic inflamation, like croup. Hence, 
the employment of counter irritation, leeches to the trachea, chlorine 
gargles, with the administration of port wine, quinine, and chlorine of 
potash, would seem to be the most rational mode of treatment. Some 
advocate the employment of emetics, and some tracheoray. 

Disgiissimg" taste of IVIedicines. — Dr. Polli recommends a 
means, founded on the physiological fact that a strong impression on 
the nerves, whether of vision, hearing, or taste, renders that which 
follows less perceptible. Instead of applying to the mouth, therefore, 
agreeable substances after swallowing nauseous medicines, we should 
prepare it before, in order that the taste of the medicine may not be 
perceived. Aromatic substances, chewed just before, as orange or 
lemon peel, &c., effectually prevent castor oil, &c., being tasted. In pre- 
paring the mouth for bitters, licquorice is the only sweet that should be 
used, the others producing a peculiarly disagreeable compound taste. 

Dental Meural^ia. — Acetate of morphia one and a half grains, 
acetic acid two drops, and eau de Cologne two drachms. A little of this 
mixture placed in the ear in cotton, in the ear of the same side as that 
in which the dental neuralgia prevails, is of remarkably efficacy. 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLIONi 189 

IVaptha in Ringirorill. — Dr. Chappelle says he has found the 
following procedure the most successful of any that he has tried ; — The 
hairs are to be cut short, the creamy fluid let out of the pustules, and 
the crusts removed by linseed poultices. The denuded surface is then 
to be covered with a thin layer of oil of naphtha, over which a flannel 
compress is io be placed, the whole being secured by an oil>silk cap. 
^e application is to be renewed twice a day, first well washing the 
parts with soap and water ; and the surface of the scalp is to be care* 
fully searched, in order to detect any small favous pustules that may 
have appeared. These must be pricked with a pin, the matter removed, 
and the surface covered with the oil. This evolution of pustules is suc- 
cessive, so that the hair must be kept short in the vicinity, that their 
advent may be watched. This application secures the rapid absorption 
of the pustules ; but when the scalp is too tender to bear it, it should 
be mixed with other less irritating oils, of which the huile de cade (em-* 
pyreumatic oil of juniper.) is one of the best. 



Variolct ,' dr*, 

Small PoX. — This disease comes on with the usual symptomg 
of inflammatoi'y fevel*. About the third day, red spots, resembling 
flea bites, make their appearance on the face and head, and gra- 
dually extend oVer the whole body. About the fifth day small 
circular Vesicles, depressed in the centre, surrounded by an areola, 
and containing a colorless fluid, being to form, when the feverish 
symptoms abate ; about the the sixth day the throat becomes sore; 
about the eighth day the face is swollen, and about the eleventh day 
the pustules acquire the size of pea, and cease to enlarge, the matter 
which they contain becomes opaque and yellow, a dark central spot 
fotms on each, the swelling of the face subsides, and secondary 
symptons of fever come on ; the pustules become rough, break and 
scab over, and a dark spot remains for some days, often followed by 
permanent indentation. At the end of the sixteenth or eighteenth 
day, the symptoms usually disappear. In the confluent smallpox, the 
pustules caolesce, the eruption is irregular in its progress, and the 
inflammatory symptoms are more severe, The treatment of ordinary 



^^b MINE OF WEALTH; AND, 

cases of smallpox resembles that mentioned above for ehickenpox. 
AVhen great irritability exists, small doses of morphia, opium, or 
campbor, may be administered, and obstinate vomiting arrested by 
effervescing saline draughts. The application on the third day of a 
mask formed of thick muslin, covered with mercurial ointment, 
and having holes cut out for the nostrils, eyes, and mouth, will 
effectually prevent "pitting." Gold leaf is also applied for the 
same purpose. 

Chicken Pox. — An eruptive skin disease, consisting of smooth. 
vesicles of various sizes, which afterwards become white and straw 
colored, and about the fourth day break and scale off. In hot 
weather the discharge sometimes becomes purulent, and at others 
the eruption is attended with considerable fever. The treatment 
consists in the adoption of a light vegetable diet, and in the ad- 
ministration of mild aperients and cooling drinks. 

Cow Pox. — This disease was proposed as a substitute and pre- 
ventive of smallpox. Dr. Jenner in 1798. The success which has 
followed its artificial production has nearly led to the extinction of 
smallpox in England. The process of vaccination is similar to that 
of inocculation for the smallpox, before noticed. About the third 
day the puncture usually becomes red and elevated, and continues 
to enlarge and become vesicular, until at about the 8th or 9th day, 
it is at its height, and the vesicle is surrounded with a florid areola. 
About the 11th or 12th day these symptoms decline ; the centre 
of the pustule becomes brown, and a dark scale gradually forms 
and separates, leaving the arm as heretofore. This disease seldom 
requires medical treatment ; but should febrile symptoms come on, 
an aperient may be given. 

Care of Sleeping Apartments. — It is of great importance that 
sleeping rooms should be frequently and thoroughly ventilated. 
There are many of the European practices, which in this particu- 
lar, are superior to our own. In Italy, for example, it is the cus- 
tom to take care that a separation of all the oloths that have been 
used during sleep be effected, and thus separately suspended from 
the windows, so as to get the benefit of free and full exposure to the 
purifying influence of the atmosphere. Many are the contrivances 
of modern ingenuity for the purpose of insuring an unobstructed cir- 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 191 

culation of air in rooms — but where tliere is a door, and a window, 
and a chimney-place, all these contriyances may be dispensed with. 
Let the windows of the bed room, however, be so constructed, as 
that they shall be capable of being drawn down as well as pushed 
up ; and let it always be recollected, that no effectual ventilation can 
be accomplished without this plan of admitting condensed and 
purer, and giving exit to lighter and impurer atmospheric matter 
A good mode of airing bed-rooms, in which persona are constantly 
sleeping, is that of pumping them, as it is called ; or waving the 
door backwards and forwards for some minutes together, so as by 
agitation to favor the universal diffusion of the admitted air. 

Avoid Exteemes op Heat and Cold. — The extremes of hot 
and cold are unfavorable to constant industry, but much may be 
done by intellectual beings to obviate the tendencies of climate, A 
great deal of time is wasted in winter, in hovering over the fire 
and talking of the cold : in delaying to set about a piece of work, 
because it requires one to leave a warm room. But a little resolu- 
tion will remedy all this. You can make yourselves as comfortable 
by taking your work or book, and sitting at a moderate distance 
from the fire, as by hanging idly over it ; and if you run off briskly 
after what you need, the exercise will warm you better than the 
parlor fire. 

Attention TO Health in Youth. The most precarious period 
of life is said to vary from the ages often to twenty-one years, when 
the frame is most prone to deformity; but particularly from ten to 
fifteen, when the body is in its active state of growth. The most 
frequent cause of deformity at this most dangerous period is the 
over-exercise of the mind, to the neglect of the T^ody, augmented in 
the female sex by the baneful use of stays. " Many are the chil* 
dren," says a physician, "who have been born healthy and robust, 
the pride and hope of fond parents, havingthe rosy hue of health 
upon the cheek, the sparkling eye and laughing mouth; happilles^' 
and enjoyment, the certain attendants upon robust health, plainly 
marked upon their countenances; the voice, the active romping 
motion of the body, confirm it ; but wait a little while, until the 
approach of the assidious age, the period when the body is at 
its highest progress of upward growth, the muscular fibres being 



192 MINE OP WEALTH ; AND, 

still lax, the bones comparatively soft, when the powers of the 
system are so severely tried, nature requiring to be supported by 
the most careful watching and utmost aid of science, in supplying 
anlT regulating the quality and quantity of air, food and exercise, 
so requisite at this period; whereas, instead of such judicious 
attention, we often find that the too fond parent, ever and wholly 
absorbed with the mental education of his offspring, to the entire 
neglect, and even sacrifice of his bodily frame, at this most 
dangerous stage of his life, often fancies that it is the best age tor 
mental training and activity; consequently, taxes both the mind 
and body of the youth to the utmost, by forcing him to employ all 
the hours of the day in study. " 

Rut.es For a Sick Room: — 1. A sick room should be kept very 
Bweet and airy ; there should never be a close smell in it ; if the 
weather is warm enough, let the the door or windoAV be open ; 
if cold, let there be a small fire ; the chimney should nevxr-Ue 
stopped up, »i/;.'»,)l 

2. It should be made rather dark, by a blind over the window ; 
but bed-curtains should not be drawn close. 

3. It should be very clean ; the floor should be wiped over with 
a damp cloth every day ; all chamber- vessels should be removed as 
soon as used, and if there is any bad smell, a little blacking liquid 
should be put into them, and be sprinkled on the floor. 

4. The medicine should be kept in one particular place ; all 
bottles, cups, &c., that are done with, should be taken away at once. 

5. The rbom should also be very quiet ; there should be no talk- 
ing or gossiping ; one or two people at the most, besides the invalid, 
are quite enough to be there at a time ; more people make it close 
and noisy, and disturb the sick. Neighbors should not be too 
anxious to see the sick person unless they can do some good. f 

6. The sick person's face and hands and feet should be often 
washed with warm water and soap, and the mouth be rinsed with 
vinegar and water ; the hair should be cut rather short, and be 
combed every day. 

7. Never give spirits unless ordered by the physician ; sick people 
always feel weak, but yet such things given at a wrong time would 
only make them weaker. 



&U1DE FOR THE MILLION". 1^3 

Tea and its Adulterations. 
. A verj eonsiderable amofunt of skill and ingenuity are displayed, 
as we shall hereafter perceire, both at home and abroad, in the 
adulteration of tea, ^ well as in .the manufacture of spurious articles 
in imitation of it; 'K-i fmhtjitstfirfifi orfi ai hoyoiqi.i* v''i! 

We shall first treat of black tea and its adulterations. The chief 
adulterations to which black tea is subject, consist in the use of 
leaves other than those of tea ; in the re^preparation of exhausted 
ti^a-leaves ; and in the employment of substances, either for the pur 
pose of imparting color and astringency to the infusion, or to glaze 
and face the surface of the dried leaves so that they present aii 
icriproved appearance to the eye. 

It has been repeatedly ascertained that the leaves of various 
American plants are sometimes used in our country in the adultera- 
tion of tea. The leaves of the following species have been detected, 
from time to time, in samples of American fabrication : beech, elm, 
hors^'jchestnut, plane, bastard-plane, fancy oak, willow, poplar, 
hawthorn, and sloe. The leaves in general are not used whole; but 
when dried are broken into small pieces, and usually mixed with a 
paste made of gum and catechu : afterwards they are ground and 
reduced to powder, which, when colored with rose-pink, is mixed 
with inferior descriptions of black tea, resembling in this state tea- 
dust. 

Before the observer is in a position to detect the presence of 
foreign leaves in tea, he must first acquaint himself with the cha- 
racter of tea, and other leaves used to mix with tea. Thus, he 
must note well the size and form of the leaves, the conformation of 
the edges ; but, especially, the arrangement and distribuiion of the. 
bundles of woody fibre, veins as they are commonly termed. 

By the microscope, it is in many eases even possible to distin- 
guish the leaves of different plants when ground to a dust-like 
ppsnfder^ 89 tl^at ittt^jr iaa,siPflaiQ l^h^s^jdetpotedwheu substituted for tea- 

Catechu, or Terra Japonica, which consists principally of tannin, 
is sometimes had rescourse to, when exhausted tea-leaves aire used, 
xxr when other leaves thftQ those of tea are employed. It imparts 



^^ MINE OF WEALTH ; AND, 

increased astringency and color to infusions made from such leaves, 
nnd supplies the place of the tannin abstracted from them. The 
leaves of the sloe also contain a considerable quantity of tannin 
ami . are, therefore, astringent ; and it is on this account that they, 
arc so frequently employed in the adulteration of tea. 

In this place may be noticed two articles occasionally met with 
and employed as substitutes for tea. The first of these is La Yeno 

Bono- HHiiJ i&dlo •^▼••i 

La Veno Bono consists of a coarse powder of a reddish -brown 
color, intermixed with small fragments of sumach leaf To the taste, 
tbe powder is astringent and bitter, and, on analysis, is ascertained 
to bo coarsely-powdered catechu. Now catechu, as already stated', 
consists principally of tannin, which, from its astringent action, 
Avould be extremely apt, when taken in the quantity in which it 
exi.sts in La Veno Bono to produce constipation, with the manifold 
evils wViich result from such a condition. 

'i'he seuuiid article is Chinese Botanical Powder; or Chinese MconO' 
luLt. 

This preparation appears to be got up in imitation of La Veno 
Bonn^ and is sold for the same purpose as that article, viz. to mix 
A\ itli tea. 

It consists of a coarse powder of a reddish-brown color, and 
astringent taste, and is made up of a mixture of catechu and wheat 
ftmir, the latter ingredient being added to reduce the strength of 
the catechu. 

The great difficulty experienced in the re-preparation of exhausted 
tea- leaves, is to cause them to resume the twisted form imparted by 
the Chinese method of rolling and drying the leaves. For this 
purpose, the leaves are steeped in a strong solution of gum; this in 
drying, occasions the contt-action of the leaves, and causes them to 
assume, to a certain extent only, their original appearance ; the solu- 
tion at the time imparting a polished surface to the leaves. The 
forms of the greater number of the leaves after this preparation 
are still, liowever, very different from those of tea as originally 
prepared ; the leaves are more broken and agglutinated into small 
liaitened or rounded masses. This circumstance, together with the 



GUtFE FOR THE MILLION. 

shining appearance ot tbe leaves, are sufficient to enable tlie expe- 
rienced eye to detect samples of tea manufactured from exhausted 
leaves, even when mixed with a proportion of unused tea. 

It is not black tea only which is manufactured from exhausted 
tea-leaves, but also green tea, the leaves undergoing the same pre- 
paratory process of gumming and drying ; and, although in the case 
of green tea the difficulty of detection apart from chemical analysis 
is increased, yet the accurate observation Of the form of the leaves 
is, in many cases, sufficient for the discovery even of this fraud. 

A second substance is Sulphate of won. When a solution of sul- 
phate of iron is brought in contact with a solution of tannin, (which 
contains a large amount of tannin), the liquid becomes deeply col- 
ored, indeed almost black. Of this fact the fabricators of spurious 
tea are well aware, for they avail themselves of it, and frequently 
add +o the gum- water a proportion of sulphate of iron. 

Aqrain; Rose-pink is occasionally used by adulterators, to give a 
color and bloom to the surface of black tea fabricated from exhausted 
tea-leaves; it is not, however, very frequently had recourse ta 
Rose-p'ak consists of the coloring matter of logwood in combination 
>-it!i carbonate or lime. 

Other substances frequently used for blooming the surface of the 
teas, both black a;nd green, especially the latter, are Soapstone, 
China-clay^ and Tah^ or Mica, which impart a pearly lustre to the 
teas. 

Again : Indigo is employed by the Chinese in dressing the surface 
of certain descriptions of black tea; although this article is more 
commonly used in the manufacture of spurious green teas'; this is a 
vegetable substan«ce, and is possessed of active medical properties. 

The last substance detected as being occasionally eniployed, is 
luriiwric powder; this coloring matter, however, like the former, 
is much more commonly used for the painting of green teas. 

We now come to treat of the adulteration of Green Tea. 

Of the analyses of thirty-two sampl'es "df" the various kinds of 
green teas, in the state in which they are imported, (these analyses 
including samples of the many varieties of TwanJcay, Hyson, Gun- 
powdery and /mpeniaZ),'jhe following are the conclusions arrived at; 
— First. That the whole of the thirty-tWo Weir^ a'dullierated. Second. 



196 Ml^ril! Py WEALTH; AN»,i^* 

That five of the ^amplea called Gunpowder, consisted of Lie lea, 
that 13, of tea-duat ,a,nd aand, made up with rioe-water. Third. 
That one of the samples was composed of paddy husk, and other 
substances. Fourth. That another sample was composed chiefly 
of Lie Tea, made up in parts with other leaves than those of tea. 
Fifth. That another sample consisted principally of Lie Tea. 
Sixth. That the whole of the samples were artificially glazed or 
colored. Seventh. That this glazing or coloring consisted of two, 
and, in some cases, three substances — a blue, a yellow, and a white. 
The blue coloring matter was present in all the samples ; and in 
twenty-eight, it was ascertained to be Prussian blue, and in tlie 
other two indigo; the yellow was detected in seventeen samples, 
and consisted in all instances of Turmeric powder ; the white was 
observed in twenty-nine samples, a,nd vaa in general found to be 
China-clay, or Icaolin,. That a second yellow substance is occasion^ 
ally employed by the Chinese, mixed with turmeric powder, is evi 
dent from the analysis of the yellow dye given in the last report. 
Eighth. That in no one of the samples was a single leaf possessed 
of a green color, not produoed by artificial means, detected from 
strong fact, notwithstanding a certain amount of evidence to the 
contrary, we are almost led to conclude that there is really no such 
thing as a " genuine green tea " of the color ordinarily supposed to 
be characteristic of that kind of tea. The leaves, when deprived of 
their artificial coating, have invariably presented different shades of 
yellow, olive, brown, and even black. 

In addition, the gunpowders, in most cases, were further adulter- 
ated by admixture with various proportions of green Lie Tea, some 
of them consistmg even entirely of this almost worthless substance. 
But, the adulteyaitions of tea by the Chinese, are not limited to the 
painting of the surface of the leaves, and to the manufacture of Lie 
Tea ; for there is no question but that the Chinese do even adulterate 
some inferior descriptions of green Gunpowder tea, with the leaves 
of plants other than those of tea, 

Li^ Tea may be very readily distinguished by the circumstance, 
that wh^n the little pellets are moistened, they easily fall to pieces 
under the pressure of a kQif^f the pxesoDoe of sftad being revealed 
by ^ well-knowuL ^itty fe^io^ ^ i. di ouj lo -n i , u « aii i . . 



GUlDiB FOR TSfi MltLtOK. iSt 



OH AFTER VII. "• 

Pyrotechny. 
The art of making ftVewGfks. " The tlit^e prime materials of 
this art are, nitre, sulphur j and charcoal, along with filings of iron, 
steel, copper, zinc, resin, camphor, lycopodium, &c. GunpcWder 
is used either in grain, half-croshed, or finely ground, for different 
purposes. The longer the iron filings, the brighter the red and 
white spots they give; those being preferred which are made with 
a coarse file, and quite free from rust. Steel filings and cast-iron 
borings contain carbon, and afford a more brilliant fire, with 
wavy radiations. Copper filings give a greenish tint to flame } 
those of zinc, a fine blue color; the sulphuret of antimony gives a 
less greenish blue than' zinc, but with much, smoke; amber affords 
a yellow fire, as well as colophony, (rosin,) and common salt ; but 
thelast must be dry. Lampblack produces a very red color with 
gunpowder, and a pink one with nitre in excess ; it serves for 
ma king golden showers." When lightly mixed with gunpdwdfer 
aud put into cases, it throws out small stars resembling the rowel 
of a spur; this composition hais hence been called " spur fire." 
" The yellow sand, or glistening mica, communicates to fireworks 
gduien radiations. Verdigris imparts a pale green; sulphate of 
CO] iper and sal ammoniac give a palm-tree green. Camphor yields 
a very white flame and aromatic fumes, which mask the bad smell 
of other substances. Benzoin and storax are used also on account 
of their agreeable odor. Lycopodium burns with a rose color and 
a magnificent flame; but it is principally employed in theatres to 
represent lightning, or to charge the torch of a fury." Diet, pf 
Arts, Munuf., and Mines.) — Our space will only permit a brief 
notice of the process of making, and the composition for rockets 
and colored fires. 



189 MINE OF WEALTH; AND, 

RECEIPTS. 

Blue Fire, No. 1 — ^Nitre, two parts ; sulphur, three parts ; zine, 
three parts ; pulverized gunpowder, four parts. Mix with care. 

2. — English blue ashes, twelve parts; sulphur, ten parts; chlorate 
of potash, twentj-four parts. Mix well, 

Bengal Flames. — Nitre, seven parts ; sulphur, two parts , anti- 
mony, one part. Mix well and press the composition into earthen 
tubes or porringers and place a slow match on the surface to ignite 
when necessary. 

Blue Flames. — Gunpowder, one part ; king's yellow, one part ; 
sulphur vivium, two parts; crude antimony powdered, four parts; 
nitrate of potash, fourteen parts ; mix well and sift through lawn. 

Common White Fibe. — Nitre, fifty parts ; sulphur, fourteen 
parts ; sulphuret of antimony, eight parts. Mix well. 

Detonating Powder. — Rub two grains of chlorate of potash 
into powder in a mortar ; add a grain of sulphur. Mix them well 
but very gently. By pressing anything forcibly upon this powder 
a loud explosion will follow. 

French White Fire. — Nitre, sixteen parts; sulphur, eight 
parts ; antimony, four parts ; mix well. 

Greek Fire. — Asphaltum, thirty parts ; sulphur, twenty eight 
parts ; nitre forty-two parts. Mix well. 

Green Fire, No. 1 — Nitrate of baryta, twenty-six parts ; sulphur, 
eleven parts ; chlorate of potash, eleven parts. Mix well. 

2. — Nitre, sixteen parts ; sulphur, six parts ; verdigris, six parts ; 
antimony, six parts. Mix well. 

Red Fire, No. 1. — Sulphuret of antimony, four parts ; chlorate of 
potash, five parts ; flowers of sulphur, thirteen parts ; nitrate of 
strontian, forty parts. Mix well. 

2. — Nitrate of strontian calcined, seventy-five parts ; sulphur, 
twenty parts ; pulverized charcoal, three parts ; sulphur of anti- 
mony, three parts ; chlorate of potash, twenty parts. Mix well. 

The strontian can be calcined in any iron or earthenware vessel, 
over a fire without flame, care being taken that no particle falls 
into the fire. ' 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 199 

The chlorate of potash must always be prepared with great care. 
It must be rubbed slowly and in yery small quasktities, in a mortar, 
until the whole is reduced to a very fine powder ; then mix it caro- 
fully with one of the other ingredients using. a bit of card or paste- 
board for ike purpose; then add the other ingredients one by one 
mixing in the same manner until the whole is prepared. 'J he.se 
precautions must be used in every case where the chlorate of pi;t;u:i 
is used. 

This class of Fires, are always put up in small cylindrical 
boxes made of thin pasteboard or thick drawing paper from tLree 
to four inches high. The bottom is closed with a round ])iece 
pasted carefully in and .about an inch of finely powdered dr^^ clav 
is first put in and then the ingredients for the fire up to the top, 
which is closed with another round piece similar to the one at tiie 
bottom. When required for use a small hole is perforated in the 
top with a round bit o£ wood, and therein is inserted a slow match, 
which is to be ignited when you wish to burn the fire. The slow 
match is made by dipping brown paper into a strong solution of 
nitre and rain water, letting the water dissolve all it possibly can 
of the nitre. Then dry the paper carefully and thoroughly^ in the 
sun. Another kind of slow match is made by dissolving gunpow- 
der in water and steeping brown paper or pack thread in it and 
afterwards claying it as above. This is more dangerous however, 
as it ignites more easily and burns with greater rapidity. 

Yellow Fire. — Nitre, sixteen parts; sulphur, eight parts; 
amber, eight parts. Mix well. 

Explosive Volcano. — Take a tin cylinder closed at the bottom, 
from one to three inches in diameter and pack in as close as possible as 
many ounces of gunpowder as you wish power to the explosion, 
placing on top a well forceid in wad of slow match. Make a vol- 
canic cone of gunpowder wetted and mixed to the proper consis 
tency with saturated solution of nitre and water. [When well 
mixed the powder is barely dam,ped through but adheres together 
in a l^mp.] Place your cylinder in the ground near to its top, and 
fill in with the wetted gunpowder, and place thereon the conie. 
Ignite with a slow match. If well made it will resemble the erup- 
tion of a volcano on a small scale with its accompanying explosion. 



200 MINE OP WEAETH ; AND, 

FoiTNTAiN OF Fire. — To six ounces of water in an eartben basin, 
add gradually onei^Ounce of sulphuric acid, then three quarters of an 
<>ut)ce t)f granulated zinc, and a few pieces of phosphorus the size of 
a pea. Bubbles of gas will be immediately generated, which, on 
coming to the surface take fire, and in a short time make the entire 
surface of the liquid illuminated, whilst fire balls and jets of fire 
dart from the bottom with rapidity. 

To Melt a Coin in a Nutshell. — Eub together three parts 
of nitre, one part sulphur and one of dry sawdust, and press down 
and li.-ilf fill a wialnut shell with it; place in it a small rolle(i up 
coin of" either silver or copper, and then fill up the shell with the 
powder, pressing down tightly ; ignite, and when it has burned out, 
the coin will be melted into a mass. 

Crimson Fire. — Chlorate of potash four and a half parts; 
nitrate of stvontia, sixty-seven and a half parts; alder or willow 
cliuieoal five and three quarter parts ; sulphur twenty and a half 
pai-t,s; mix and press lightly into pasteboard tubes and ignite with 
a slow match, 

CiiiAfsoN Stars. — Chlorate of potash, seventeen and a quarter 
parts; sulphur, eighteen parts; nitrate of strontia, fifty-five parts; 
charcoal, four and a half parts; sulphuret of antimony, five and a 
half parts ; mix, load into tubes and prime with a slow match. 

Lilac Fires. — Lamp-black, realger and nitre, each one part; 
sulphur, two parts ; chlorate of potash, five parts; fused nitrate pf 
stroti I. in, sixteen parts ; mix well.. .," 

Biiiij.iANT Stars FOR Eockets. — Nitre, fifty two and a half' 
parts: sulphur and block antimony, of each thirteen parts; powder 
well, mix, and make a stiff paste with one and a half parts of isin- 
glass dissolved in vinegar, six and a half parts, and spirits of wine, 
thirteen parts; form into small pieces and whilst moist roll them 
in meal gunpowder. 

Wiiii'E Stars for Eockets. — Nitre, sixteen parts ; sulphur, seven 
parts; gunpowder, four parts; make a paste and prepare as for 
Bi-illiant Stars. 

Golden Eain. — Nitre and gunpowder, each sixteen parts ; sul- 
phur, ten parts ; charcoal, four parts ; lampblack, two parts ; mix and 
pack into small tubes. Ignite with slow match. 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 201 



CHAPTEE VIII. 

Miscellaneoiis. 

Ip variety is the spice of life, as nature atid common sense seem to 
&'dltftit, such a work as the present would not be complete without, 
adding a spicy chapter of miscellanea that shall add instruction to 
the many subjects here embraced, in the form of a few which claim 
Q^r attention but refuse classification. Many are the hints that may 
be given in this way, and many are the subjects that admit of a® 
other way, of rendering them to the popular mind— we have there- 
fore opened our storehouse of disconnected facts and give out of 
©ur abundance the following. 

Duties of Young Ladies to their Associates. 

The importance of virtuous associates on the youthful mind is 
universally admitted. The human heart was made for friendship. 
Still, in the selection of intimates among her own sex, a young 
lad'y needs to be cautious. Imperfections there will be, even in 
those cases where a rare combination of excellent qualities exists. 
Elevation of character, frankness of disposition, firmness of princi- 
ple, sterling virtue, and a warm heart, are the characteristics to be 
Bought in a friend. Congeniality of taste, pursuits, intellectual 
pleasures and religious principle, constitute other essential pre-re- 
quisites. " Judge before friendship, then confide till death." 

When you have found those of congenial spirit, strive to be mu*- 
tually and greatly beneficial to each other. Eindly point out each 
(Cher's imperfections ; share each other's joys and sorrows ; ex- 
change books, and make the knowledge of one common to both 
When yoa meet, discuss not character, but useful and entertaining 



202 MINE OF WEALTH; AND, 

topics. — When absent, regularly correspond, making judicious 
criticisms where manifest defects of composition, or errors of 
sentiment require. 

A young lady's sense of propriety will lead her as a matter of 
course to treat civilly those of the other sex with whom she comes 
in contact. As the receiving of special attentions from young men 
is not to be regarded as a duty, but it is to be left entirely optional, 
a few suggestions on this topic will suffice. Indeed, it is thought 
by the more judicious that all such attentions had better be dis- 
couraged till the lady has arrived at the age of twenty. The less 
the youthful mind dwells upon lovers and matrimony, the better. 
In deciding who are worthy of special regard remember that 
"Around the mind of every one is a sphere of its own quality, as 
odour surrounds a flower ; and this quality is perceived in attrac- 
tion and repulsion by all who are similar or dissimilar." To the 
first impressions of character, therefore a young lady may pay som» 
regard. Then, if she has brothers, their opinions should have 
weight in the decision. Especially should parents be consulted in 
the matter. 

Earliest Intellectual Education op Children. — Cultivate, 
by exercise, the five senses of seeing, hearing, touching, smelling, 
tasting. Teach the child to observe forms, sizes, weights, colors, 
arrangements and numbers. Practice all a child's knowing facul- 
ties on objects, — feathers, ribbons, buttons, pictures of animals, &c. 
Practice distinct articulation. If at four years of age a child 
has any defect, it ought to be systematically taught to pronounce 
correctly. Let a child put its toy to another than the intended 
use, if it does not destroy it; this exercises invention. En- 
courage construction, and furnish the materials, leaving ingenuity 
to work. Accustom the child to find its own amusement. It is 
the most unprofitable slavery to be constantly finding amusement 
for it. Remember that children love stories, — the simpler the 
better : and delight to have them told again and again. Always 
give them a moral turn and character. Be sparing of the marvel, 
lous, exclude the terrible and horrible, and utterly proscribe all 
ghost and witch stories. Accustom children to reptiles, insects, &c. ; 
and prevent the foolish fear of those creatures which is often found 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. ^ 203 

in adults, and leads to the constant and most unnecessary destruction 
of them. Induce a child to give attention, by presenting objects, and 
giving narratives which interest it. Do not repeat that it must give 
attention. Avoid employing female servants as nurses who possess 
coarse habits and sentiment, or whose mode of speaking is coarse or 
indelicate. No difference need at first be made between the rear- 
ing and training of male and female infants. Allow female children 
as they grow up, to amuse themselves with dolls, and in a similar 
manner encourage and regulate the amusements of the boys. Many 
of these observations may appear trivial, but in most cases they 
form the basis of character in after life. It is highly, important 
that we should set a value on some apparent trifles, especially in 
the rearing of children ; for it is by these means their attention is 
directed to more serious objects. 

Directions For Cleaning Silks And Satins. — White silk or 
satin may be cleaned thus:— Dissolve some of the best curd soap in 
boiling water, and when the solution is as hot as the hand can bear, 
pass the silk through it thoroughly, handling it gently not to injure 
the texture. If there are any spots, these may be rubbed carefully 
till they disappear. The article must then be rinsed in lukewarm 
water, and dried by stretching it out with pins. If satin, the glossy 
or bright side must be well brushed with a clothes-brush the way 
of the nap, till it shines ; it may then be calendered ; or it may be 
finished by dipping a soft sponge in a little isinglass dissolved in 
boiling water, and rubbing the wrong side of the satin, which must 
then be pinned out, and again brushed and dried Plain silks do 
not require brushing. 

If the satin is not much soiled, the brightness may be restored by 
strewing on it some French chalk in powder, and then brushing it 
off with a hard brush ; if once is not sufficient the process may be 
repeated. When the silk is: large, it may be laid smooth upon a 
board, and a little soap spread over the dirtiest parts ; then, having 
ma^e a lather with fine white soap, this may be passed over the silk 
on ofieside with a brush, and then upon the other side. It muat 
then be put into hot water, and afterwards rinsed in cold water ; it 
must next be dried, and smoothed on the right side with an iron 
not hot, or calendered. *fjn*s nlniH' Jooj tal imi3 



204^ MINE OP W^ALTfi ; AlifD, 

(!• ]f t]>e white silks are flowered, the best method is to clean them 
by sifting on tbem some crumbs of stale bread, which must be rub- 
bed on with the liands, and then thoroughly shaken and brushed 
off. If a very little powdered blue be mixed with the crumbs, it 
will be advantageous for some shades of white. ^'^. 

To Preserve Orang^e or lieinon Peel. — Cut the oranges 
or lemons in half, take out the pulp, put the peelings in strong rait and 
water lo soak for three days ; repeat this soaking three times ; then put 
them on a sieve to dry; take one pound of loaf sugar, a quart of pure 
water put in the peelings and boil, skimming until quite clear; let them 
sunnier until they become transparent then take out and dry them be- 
fore the fire. Boil loaf sugar with just sufficient water to dissolve it, 
and whilst boiling put in the peelings, stirring continually until all the 
sugar is candied around them, then put them to dry either before the 
fire or in an oven, and when perfectly dry put by for use. 

To snake paper Impervious; to IVater. — The following 
preparation for waterproofing paper intended for packages exposed to 
the weather is said to be recommended by Professor Muschamp, of 
Wurtemberg : Take twenty-four ounces of alum, and four ounces of 
white soap, and dissolve them in two pounds of water; in another 
vessel, dissolve two ounces of gum arable, and six ounces of glue in 
the same quantity of water as .the former, and add the two solutions 
together, which is now to be kept warm, and the paper intended to be 
made waterproof dipped into it, passed between rollers and dried ; or, 
without the use of rollers, the paper may be suspended until it is per. 
feetly dripped, and then dried. The alum, soap, glue, and gum form a 
kind of artificial leather, which protects the surface of the paper from 
the action of the water, and also renders it somewhat fireproof Merely 
to convert paper into artificial leather, this would be a rather compli- 
cated process compared with the dipping of the paper in diluted oil 
of vitrol, and then washing it immediately with water and drying ; but 
the Professor's method may, perhaps, render paper more impervious 
to water. 

Tomato Sauce. — Take twelve large tomatoes, peel and cut them 
into two parts, placing the cut pairt upwards, sprinkle salt upon them. 
Let stand twelve hours, then squeeze, strain and add three small bruised 
crackers, a little pepper and a clove or two. Boil twenty minutes, keep- 
ing it well skimmed, then let cool, strain and bottle. 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 206 

Egyptian Cream for the Hair.— Into three quarts of sweet 
oil put a quarter of a pound of alkanet root cut into small pieces ; let 
them boil together ten minutes, then add to them three ounces of oil 
of jasmine, and one ounce of oil of lavender; strain the ingredients 
|,hroijgh a coarse cloth, taking care not to squeeze it. If required iti 
can now be made thicker by adding to it a small quantity of fine hair 
powder, smoothly rubbed down with a small portion of oil. 

feoflaW to loosen ^lass Stoppers.— With a feather rub a drop 
or two of salad oil round the stopper close to the mouth of the bottle or 
decanter, and place before the fire at the distance of about a foot or 
eighteen inches, in which position the heat will cause the oil to spread 
downward between the neck and stopper. When it has grown warm, 
gen.tly strike the stopper on one side and on the other, with any light 
woodeft instrument, then try it with the hand. If it will not yet move, 
place it again before the fire adding another drop or two of oil. After 
$ while strike as before, and by persevering in this process, however 
tightly the stopper may be fastened, it will at length become loosened. 

'"Essence of Gingrer. — Well bruised unbladed Jamaica ginger, 
Wtir ounces ; rectified spirits of wine, one pint : digest for a fortnight, 
'^^s, filter arid bottle and add five drdps essence of Cayenne. 

To restore Milk. — When milk has become turned by heat, it can 
v^ made sweet again and perfectly restored by mixing with it a small 
q^^riiity of carbonate of magnesia. 

Cwriosis Facts. — If a tallow candle be placed in a gun, and shot at 
a door, it will go through without sustaining any injury ; and if a musket 
hail be fired into water, it will not only rebound, but will be flattened 
as if fired against a solid substance. A musket may be fired through a 
pane of glass, making the hole the size of the hall, without cracking 
,ti^p gl^^s. ;i]^ suspended by a thread, it will make no difference, and the 
thread will not even vibrate. Cork, if sunk two hundred feet deep in the 
ocean, will not rise, on account of the pressure of the water. In the 
Arctic region, when the thermometer is below zero, persons can con- 
verse more than a mile distant. Dr. Jamieson asserts that he heard 
every word of a sermon at the distance of two miles. 
j^To make hard water soft.-— Dissolve two tablospoonsful of 
^yesh quick lime in two and a quarter gallons of water. Stir this well into 
ji, barrel of hard water and let stand twentj'aeven boura. It will then 



206 MINE OF WEALTH; AND. 

I^-^aors and hot Water. — It was long supposed that the effect 
rtf (lipping a razor into hot water was to remove from its edge a kind of 
resinous substance, which was thought to injure its sharpness. Such, 
however, is not the real effect. The fine edge is given to all blades 
of steel by tempering them that is, heating them and plungmg them into 
cold water. Now it has been proved by experiment, that the heat 
of two hundred and twelve degrees is the exact point at which razor 
edges are admirably tempered ; and as the heat of boiling is two hundred 
and twelve degrees, by dipping a razor into it you, as it were, again 
temper or give a new edge to the razor. 

Treateiient ot Bed -Sores. — M. Lecre, Physician to the Hotel 
Dieu of Laon (France), recommends tannate of lead to prevent bed-sores. 
He prepares it in the foHowing manner: Oak bark, one ounce : water, 
eight ounces; boil down to four ounces, strain, and add liquor of the 
diacetate of lead in sufficient quantity until no more precipitate is 
thrown down ; collect the latter, and spread a thick coating of it with 
the finger on the parts threatened with gangrene ; the whole to be cov- 
ered with a fine piece of linen. No eschar forms with this application, 
except in rare cases^ when the wound, on the falling off of the eschar 
is to be dressed with the same tannate of lead, to which tui'pentine may 
be added. 

QjilElsy. — Those who suffer from this distressing malady will be 
thankful to hear of a simple and efficacious mode of relief, namely, an 
onion poultice. Bake or roast three or four large onions, or half-a- 
dozen smaller ones, till soft. Peel them quickly, and beat them flat 
with a rolling pin or glass bottle. Then put them directly into a thin 
muslin bag that will reach from ear to ear, and about three inches deep. 
Apply it speedily, and as warm as possible to the throat. Keep it on 
day and night, changing it when the strength of the onions appear ex- 
hausted, and substituting fresh ones. Flannel must be worn round the 
neck after the poultice is removed. 

Convenient iTIcthod of Tracing. — Frame a square of glass 
of any convenient size; leaving the back open, that the glass may be 
seen on either side; hang it so that it may turn on a swivel, of the 
fashion of a looking glass for the dressing table but let the supporters be 
taller. Fix the frame horizontally ; laying the drawing covered with 
tracing paper over the glass. The rays of light which play underneath 
will be increased by the reflection of the papar, and afford a light par- 
ticularly ad ap ted ior tracing with accuracy. 



GUIDE FOB THE MILLION. 207 

Cold ('ream. — Sweet almond oil, sev«n pounds by weight, white 
wax, three and a quarter pound, spermaceti, three and a quarter pound, 
clarified mutton suet, one pound, rose water, seven pints, spirits of 
wine, one pint. Directions to mix the above : — Place the oil, wax, 
spermaceti, and suet in a large jar ; cover it over tightly, then place it 
in a saucepan of boiling water, (having previously placed two or more 
pieces of fire-wood at the bottom of the saucepan, to allow the water to 
get underneath the jar, and to prevent its breaking) keep the water 
boiling round the jar till all the ingredients are dissolved ; take it out 
of the water, and pour it into a large pan previously warmed and capa- 
ble of holding twenty-one pints ; then, with a wooden spatula, stir in 
the rose water, cold, as quickly as possible, (dividing it into three or 
four parts at most), the stirring in of which should not occupy above 
five minutes, as after a certain heat the water will not mix. When all 
the water is in, stir unremittingly for thirty minutes longer, to prevoit 
its separating, then add the spirits of wine, an4 the scent, and it is fin- 
ished. Keep it in a cold place, in a white glazed jar, and do not cut it 
with a steel knife, as it causes blackness at the parts of contact. Scent 
with otto of roses and essential oil of bergamot to fancy. For smaller 
quantities, make ounces instead pounds. 

To Pi'eserve Catotoag'e, &C. — Cut them so that they may have 
about two inches of stem left below the leaves, scoop out the pith as far 
down^s a small knife will reach, then suspend them, by means of a 
cord, exactly perpendicular, but in an inverted position, and daily fill 
up the hollow part of the stem with clear pold water. It is said that 
by this method, cabbages, cauliflowers, broccoli, celery, &c., may bo 
preserved for a considerable time in a cool place. An easy method of 
keeping a supply of green vegetables during a severe winter. 

Sufcstitaite for Egg's. — In winter Snow can be used as an excell- 
ent substitute for eggs in puddings, pancakes, &c. Two large spoons- 
ful will supply the place pf one egg, and the article it is used in will be 
equally good. It should be fresh fallen snow or under layers if old. 
The exposed surface loses its ammonia by evaporation very soon after 
it has fallen, and it' is the ammonia contained so largely in snow which 
imparts to it the rising power, 

SwBDie. — To keep swine in health, give them free access to char- 
coal, cinders, and ashes. To cure them of almost any disease, give them 
fasting on three succeeding alternate days a teaspoonful of black sul- 
pburet of antimony, mixed and, moistened in a pint of good meal. 



aU^ ' mini: of W£ALTB; AN%f> 

To take Iiiipre§sion of* Leaves on silks, satinsi, paper, 
or any other iNltbstance. — Prepare two rubbers of wash leather, 
made by tying up wool, or any other substance, in wash-leather : then 
prepare the colors which you wish the leaves to be, by rubbing up 
with cold drawn linseed oil the wished-for colors, as indigo for blue, 
chrome for yellow, &c. Get a number of leaves the size you want, then 
dip the rubbers into the paint, and rub them one over the other, so that 
there may not be too much of the composition on the rubber ; place a 
leaf on one of the rubbers and damp it with the other ; take the leaf off 
and apply it to the substance you wish stamped : on the leaf place a 
piece of paper, and rub if; gently, and there will be a beautiful impres- 
sion of all the veins of the leaf. A leaf can only be used once. The 
leaves should be all nearly the same size, or the patterns will not look 
uniform. 

To Preserve Flowers in Winter .—Take the buds which 
are latest in blowing g^d ready to open, cut them oflf with a pair of 
scissors, leaving the stem about three inches long, cover the end of the 
stem with a little melted sealing wax, and when the buds are a little 
withered, wrap them separately up in paper, and place them in a dry 
book. When it is desired to have the flowers to blow, take out the 
buds over night, and cut off the sealed end, and put them into water in 
which a little saltpetre has been dissolved. In the morning the buds will 
be open and blown. 

Vl^et Clothes. — Handle a wet hat as lightly as possible. Wipe it 
as dry as you can with a silk handkerchief; and when nearly dry, use 
a soft brush. If the fur stick together in any part, damp it lightly with 
a sponge dipped in beer or vinegar, and then brush it till dry. Put the 
stick or stretcher into a damp hat, to keep it in proper shape. When a 
coat gets wet, wipe it down the way of the nap with a sponge or silk 
handkerchief Do not put wet boots or shoes near the fire. 

To Clean Plate.— Take of cream of tartar, alum, and common 
salt, each an ounce, and boil in a gallon of water, throw the plate in 
and boil ; when taken out and rubbed dry it will look beautiful, and will 
seldom if ever tarnish. 

A Water Purifier. — AccorJing to the Scotsman, the solid refuse 
of shale used in the manufacture of paraffine oil is a perfect purifier 
of the filthiest water. This substance is at present thrown aside bf 
____,-^»«faffine mauufacturera as valueless. , ^^ bsxini ,vi«>if«iJi 



ofelbE FOR THE MILLION. 209 

TTo Preserve Cider Sweet. — Take two pound of sioiied and 
picked raisins, one pound of mustard seed, and a quarter of a pound of 
cinnamon in stick, well broken up, and add to an ordinary sized barrel 
of cider. Mix well for a few days, and it will then retain its sweetness 
for months. 

Lavender W^ater. — To a pint of rectified spirits of wine, put one 
ounce of the essential oil of lavender, and two drachms of the essence 
of ambergris. Put the whole into a glass bottle and shake well. Keep 
well stoppered as it is very volatile. 

A Good Hair IWash. — Melt a little white soap, cut in small 
pieces, in spirits of wine, by means of heat, in the proportion of 
half a pound of soap to three quarters of a pint of spirits of wine and 
two ounces of potash. Carefully stir while heating. Let settle ; pour 
off the clear liquid when cold, adding a little perfume. 

To Remove Freckles. — Dissolve one ounce of alum in an 
ounce of lemon juice and a pint of rose-water. Keep well stoppered. 
Use as a wash three times a day until they are removed. 

Saiperlor ISIack Inii,— Make a tolerably strong solution of 
nutgalls, let stand twenty-four hours and then add a few drops (accord- 
ing to the quantity being made) of vanadic acid or vanaditeof ammonia 
This ink will be found superior in its qualities to any of the manuffie- 

tured inks of the day. 

To Preserve Boots and make them IVaterproofl 

— Take a pound each of tallow and resin and melt and mix them well 
over a fire, and apply it whilst hot to the boots with a painter's brash, 
until neither the soles or uppers will absorb any more. If a fine polish 
is desired, let the boots stand two or three days and rub them with a, 
composition made of one ounce of wax dissolved with a teaspoonful 
each of turpentine and lampblack. It must be applied cold. 

To Sharpen Itazors and Penknives. — Immerse the blade 
for half an hour in water to which one twentieth of its weight of sul- 
phuric or muriatic acid has been added. Fpon taking the blade out 
wipe it carefully and a few hours afterwads set it on a strop. Any edge 
tools may be sharpened in the same way. 

To Stupify ISees. — Subject the hives from which you wisn to 
take the honey to the vapor of flax dipped in salts of nitre, which, acts 
•a a powerful narcotic, and deprives the bees temporarily of movemc^at; 
but without des'troying them. , :•• ; 



210 MINE OF WEALTH; AND, 

€Bieni» substitute Ibr Almonds— Peach kernels bear a 
strpng resemblance in properties, appearance and chemical nature to 
bitter almonds, for which they are frequently and without inconvenience 
substituted in the shops. Distillers use preparations of peach kernels in 
making liquors and bake'rs flavor cake with them. 

To Dissolve Gold. — Use a mixture of one part nitre acid and 
two parts of muriatic acid. To be kept in well stoppered bottlea and 
in a dark place. 

Peeliia^ Onions. — In peeling onions put a large needle in the 
mouth, half in and half out. The needle will attract the oily juice 
of the onion, and any number may be peeled with impunity. 

Colored Sug'ar for Ornamenting'. — Pound loaf sugar and 
sift it through a coarse sieve ; lay the sugar on a plate or dish and 
pour into it a few drops of carmine or prepared cochineal, mixing it 
well in. Put it on a screen to dry stirring frequently when dry put in 
a canister for use. 

To remove stains Trom Glass. — Concentrated nitric acid, 
two ounces ; common acetic acid, one ounce ; water six ounces. Soak 
the glass in this solution a few hours and then wash. 

Transparent 8oap. — Cut into thin shavings half a cake of Wind- 
sor soap, or according to the quantity to be made, put into a bottle, and 
half fill with spirits of wine, and place it near the fire until the soap is 
melted. Then pour into moulds to cool and the preparation gives you 
transparent soap. 

Hoir to shave or remove hairs from any part of the 
hody without a razor. — Rub in a mortar and mix well into a 
pQwder, quick lime, ten parts ; starch, ten parts ; hyposulphate of soda 
tbi¥;e parts. For use add a little water to enough of the powder to 
form a paste, which lay on the face or hairs for two or three minutes. 
Scrape off with a wooden knife or anything dull and the hairs will be 
removed. 

Gum for Envelopes and Paper. — Gjum arabic two ounces; 
isinglass dissolved in three pints, warm water, one ounce ; loaf sugar, 
three ounces; boil down to a thin paste and apply with a soft brush. 

To Dye Hats and Bonnets.— Chips, straw bonnets and hats 
may be dyed black by boiling them three or four hours in a strong liquor 
of logwood, adding a little green copperas occasionally. Let the articles 
Hmain in the liquor all night, then take c)ut to dry in the air. If the 
Msck is not satisfactory, dye again after drying. Rub inside and out 
with a sponge moistened with oil. Then black. 



GUIDE FOR TSE MlLLIOlf. 211 

To kill Cockroaches. — Take a teacupful of ground plaster 
of Paris, mixed with double the quantity of oatmeal, to which add a 
little sugar. Strew on the floor, or in the chinks where they frequent 

Artificial Teeth. — Since the introduction of artificial teeth, which 
has enabled many to continue the mastication of solid food to a period 
of life at which they otherwise must have swallowted it whole, longevity- 
is on the increase. Whether the dentist is really to claim this fact as 
the triumph of his art, or whether it be due to a generally improved 
system of hygiene, we will not discuss ; but as mastication is so abso- 
lutely necessary, even to the strong and healthy stomach, we may 
fairly suppose that some years are added to the lives of those who are 
thus enabled to save distress to the other digestive organs when by 
age they have naturally lost some of their power. 

Properties of Charcoal. — Among the many properties of char- 
coal may be mentioned its power of destroying smell, taste and color ; 
and as a proof of its possessing the first quality, if it be rubbed over 
putrid meal, the smell will be destroyed. If a piece of charcoal be 
thrown into water the puirid taste or flavor will be destroyed, and the 
water be rendered completely fresh. Sailors are aware of this ; for when 
water is bad at sea, they are in the habit of throwing pieces of burnt 
biscuits into it to purify it. Color is materially influenced by charcoal, 
and in numbers of instances in a very irregular way. If you take a 
dirt)'^ black syrup, and filter it through burnt charcoal, the color will 
be removed The charcoal of animal matter appears to be the best 
for this purpose. You may learn the influence of charcoal in destroy- 
ing colors by filtering a bottle of port wine through it In the filtration 
it will lose a great portion of this color and become tawny ; repeat the 
process two or three times, and you have destroyed it altogether. 

Coke as Fuel for domestic purposes.— The value of coke 
for general use in private houses is comparatively little known. When 
once introduced, and the proper manner of using it is understood, this 
kind of fuel becomes almost indispensable. The best kinds of soft 
coal to be kept burning, require attention and frequent ap^lc^ 
tion of the poker. A coke fire, with the addition of a little small coal, 
which, in any other way, would be scarcely constimable, being propm'ly 
made, will burn for hours without further attention or trouble, and at 
one-third less cost than a fire sustained by coal only. In the kitchen, 
coke is also very valuable. It makes the clearest fire for broiling, and 
a capital one for roasting." In all <iases, thfe cokfr ebould" be brok^'O' 
tolerably small. 



212 MINE OF WEALTH; AND, 

To Cleaai Furs. — The following will be found very aseful upon 

the approach of winter y — Strip the fur articles of their stuffing and 
binding, and lay them as much as possible in a flat position. They 
must then be subjected to a very brisk brushing, with a stiflF clothes 
brush : after this, any moth-eaten parts must be cut out, and be neatly 
replaced by new bits of fur to match. Sable, chinchilla squirrel, fitch, 
&c., should be treated aa follows: Warm a quantity of new bran in a 
pan, taking care that it does not burn, to prevent which it must be ac- 
tively stirred. When well warmed, rub it thoroughly into the fur with 
the hand. Repeat this two or three times ; then shake the fur, and 
give it another sharp brushing until free from dust. White furs, ermine, 
&c., may be cleaned as follows: Lay the fur on a table, and rub it well 
with bran made moist with warm water ^ rub until quite dry, and after- 
wards with dry bran. The wet bran should be put on with flannel, 
aad the dry with a piece of book-muslin. The light furs, in addition to 
the above, should be well rubbed with magnesia, or a piece of book- 
muslin, after the bran process. Furs are usually much improved by 
stretching, which may be managed as follows: To a pint of soft water 
add three ounces of salt, dissolve ; with this solution sponge the inside 
of the skin (taking care not to wet the fur), until it becomes thoroughly 
saturated; then lay it carefully on a board with the fur side down- 
wards, in its natural disposition ; then stretch as much as it will bear, 
and to the required shape, and fasten with small tacks. The drying 
may be quickened by placing the skin about six or eight feet from the 
fire or stove. 

To brush Clothes. — Have a wooden horse to put the clothes on, 
and a small cane to beat the dust out of them ; also a board or table 
long enough for them to be put their whole length when brushing them. 
Have two brushes, one a hard bristle, the other soft ; use the hardest 
for the great coats, and for the others when spotted with dirt. Fine 
cloth coats should never be brushed with too hard a brush ; this will 
take off the nap, and make them look bare in a little time. Be careful 
in the choice of the cane ; do not have it too large, and be particular 
not to hit it too hard ; be careful also not to hit the buttons, for it will 
scratch, if not break them ; therefore a small hand-whip is the best to 
beat with. If a coat be wet, and spotted with dirt, let it be quite dry 
before brushing it ; then rub out the spots with the hands, taking care 
not to rumple it in so doing. Brush both sides properly, fold them 
tckgetber : then brush the inside, and last of all the collar. 



G0tt)^ PtfK THE MILLIOl^. 213 

Vinea^ar in Dropsy. — Dr. Beyer, a military practitioner at Bres- 
lau, treats almost all dropsies exclusively by vinegar, giving a spoonful 
of the fluid every hour, and, in intervals, water acidulated with it. Six 
ounces are consumed daily, and a complete cure may require from six, 
to nine pounds. The appetite is increased, rather than diminished, 
during this treatment ; and at first three or four stools per day are pro- 
duced, which argues success. When, after a time, the patient becomes 
disgusted by the vinegar, lemon juice may be substituted. 

Treatment of sore ]¥ipples. — M. Anselmier observes, that in 
employing the nipple shield we should take care that it is neither too 
large nor too firm, since deglutition becoming difficult when the jaws 
are wide apart, the child soon becomes tired and refuses to suck. Col- 
lodion is of great use in chaps, although the pain it causes at first is 
complained of. It is, however, most indicated as a preventive when as 
yet only pain is present, and the child sucks forcibly. The gentle com- 
pression it exerts upon the nipple limits the turgescence of the organ» 
and the inflammatory process. It is also an excellent application id 
superficial excoriations, protecting these from the action of the air and 
the saliva. In deeper chaps, it is not of the same use ; and, although 
other substances, as solutions of nitrate of silver or sublimate, may be 
beneficially and safely employed, with due precaution, yet they cause 
great pain, and are opposed by various prejudices. Reserving such 
means for very obstinate cases, M. Anselmier prefers benzoin, reduced 
to a state of impalpable powder. This is dusted over every part of 
the chap, and the nipple is then covered with carded cotton. No pain 
is caused, and cicatrisation soon ensues, a shield being used meanwhile. 

A Cause of Wervous Disorders. — Many inquiries have been 
made why nervous disorders are much more common among us than 
among our ancestors. Other causes may frequently concur ; but the 
chief is, we lie longer in bed. Instead of rising at four, most of us, 
wlio are not obliged to work for our bread, lie till seven, eight, and nine 
We need inquire no further ; this sufficiently accounts for the large in 
crease of these painful disorders. It may be observed that most of 
these arise, not barely from sleeping too long, put even from what we 
imagine to be harmless, the lying too long in bed. By soaking (as it is 
emphatically called) 80 long between warm sheets, the flesh is, as it 
were, parboiled, and becomes soft and flabby. The nerves, in the mean 
time, are quite unstrung, and all the train of melancholy symptoms, 
faintness, tremors, lowness of spirits, so called, come on, till life itself 
is a burden. 



214 MINE OF WEALTH; AND, 

Hyj^pepsta. — Indigestion. — This complaint, of all others, is of the 

most common occurreace, and pervades every rank of society. The 
usual symptoms are want of appetite, and transient distensions of' the " 
stomach, frequent eructations, heartburn, stomachic pains, occasional 
vomiting, and frequently costiveness and diarrhoea. Sometimes the 
head is aflfected, and dimness of sight, double vision, muscse volitantes, 
and slight vertigo, are experienced, along with a multitude of other 
symptoms, depending on a disarrangnneut of the functions of the ner- 
vous system. The causes of dyspepsia are numerous. In the higher 
ranks of society, it is a common consequence of over indulgence in the 
luxuries of the table, or of the want of proper exercis^, botjh bodily and 
mental. In the studiOiU,s, and those who lead a sedentary life, it is 
usually caused by excessive mental exertion or anxiety, or by the fa- 
tigues of business, and the want of sufficient bodily exertion and pure 
air. It frequently arises from inebriety, or a deficienpy of proper food. 
Tebat. — The treatment of dyspepsia depends less on medicine than 
on the adoption of regular habits of life. Moderation in eating, drink- 
ing, and the indulgence of the passions ; early rising, due exercise and 
retiring to rest at an early hour, will do much to restore the tone both 
of the stomach and nerves. Excessive study and mental exertion 
should be avoided, and recourse should frequently be had to society, 
and amusements of a lively and interesting character. If the bowels 
are confined, mild aperients should be taken, and if diarrhoea be present, 
antacids and absorbents may be had recourse to with advantage. The 
stomach should be strengthened by the use of mild bitters, tonics, and 
stimulants, and sea-bathing, or the tepid bath may be taken when con- 
venient. Where dyspepsia is a secondary or symptomatic disease, the 
cause should be sought into, and the treatment varied accordingly. 
Among the aperient medicines most suitable to dyspepsia, may be 
mentioned — Epsom salts, phosphate of soda, and Seidlitz powders, 
either of which should be taken largely diluted with water. An 
occasional dose of medicine producing a stronger effect, may also 
be recommended. Among antacids, are the bicarbonates and car- 
bonates of potassa and soda, either of which may be taken in 
doses of half a teaspoonful dissolved in water, or if the spirits be low 
one or two teaspoonsful of spirits of sal volatile will be more appro- 
priate, and in cases accompanied by diarrhoea, a little prepared chalk. 
As bitters, compound infusion of orange-peel, or gentian, is excellent. 
A& tonics, small doses of bark, ordisulphate of quinine, to which chaly 
beatea may be added, if there be no disposition to fever or headache. 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 215 

To preserre Potatoes.^The Scotch method of preserving 
eggs, by dipping them in boiling water (which destroys the living 
principle,) is too well known to need further notice. The preservation 
of potatoes, by similar treatment, is also a valuable and useful discov- 
ery. Large quantities may be cured at Once, by putting them into a 
basket as large as the vessel containing the boiling water will admit, 
and then just dipping them for a minute or two at the utmost, the gei^in, 
which is so near the skin, is thus " killed," without injuring the potatpe. 
In this way several tons might be cured in a few hours. They should 
then be dried in a warm oven, a,nd laid up in sacks or casks, secure 
from the frost, in a dry place. Another method of preserving this valu- 
able root is, first to peel them, then to grate them down into a pulp, 
which is put into coarse cloths, and the water squeezed out by patting 
them into a common press, by which means they are formed into flit 
cakes; Those cakes are to be well dried, and preserved for use as 
required. This is an excellent and ingenious mod« of preserving pota* 
toes, although attended with too much trouble on the large scale. It is 
said, that a piece of lime put into the water into which potatoes are 
boiling, will render the heaviest, light and flowery. 

Mil flew on liinen, &C. — The mildew upon linen proceeds 
from their being put away damp from the wash, and it is a very diffi- 
cult blemish to remove. When it has unfortunately occurred, you ■vJill 
find that soap rubbed on, and afterwards fine chalk scraped upon the 
spots, with a day's exposure to the sun, will remove it, if not at once, 
ftt least upon a repetition. 

Fruit and red wine stains may be removed by a preparation of equal 
parts of slacked lime, potass, and soft soap, and by exposure to the sun 
while this preparation is upon the stain. Salt of lemon (oa;aZate of 
potasfi) will remove ink and iron mould. 

When linen or muslins are scorched, in the getting up, without 
being actually burnt, a brown mark is left upon the spot, which may 
l)e removed by laying some of the following composition on it, before 
the article is again washed : — Slice six large onions, and express the 
juice, which must be added to a quart of vinegar, with one ounce of 
ra>ped soap, a quarter of a pound of fuller's earth, one ounce of lime, 
and one ounce of pearl-ash. Boil the whole, until the mixture becomes 
thick, and apply it to the scorched spot while it is hot. 

To Clarify Honey. — Place the vessel containing the honey in hot 
water, and take the scum off as long as it rises, afterwards stop it close. 



216 MINE OF WEALTH; AND, 

To Polish Iflaho^any Tables. — Grate very small a quarter 
of an ounce of white soap ; put it into a new glazed earthen vessel with 
a pint of water, hold it over the fire till the soap is dissolved; then add 
the same quantity of white wax cut into small pieces and three ounces 
of common wax. As soon as the whole is incorporated it is fit for use. 
When used, clean the table well, dip a bit of flannel in the varnish 
when warm, and rub it on the table ; let it stand a quarter of an hour, 
then apply a hard brush in all directions and finish with a bit of clean 
dry flannel. This will produce gloss like a mirror; and, to those who 
dislike the smell of turpentine or oil, will be found very useful. 

Hangers of CJreen Paint. — The following important state- 
ment is by Dr. Alfred Taylor, one of the first medical chemists of the 
day : — Sitting down to breakfast one morning, he perceived on the 
orust of a piece of toast a number of green spots and streaks. His curi- 
osity being excited, he examined these green spots in various ways ; 
and at last on analyzing them, extracted a considerable amount of 
arsenic. The spots were, in fact, the green paint known by the name 
of Scheele's green, a brilliant color, and one, therefore, much used, but 
dangerous from the amount of arsenic — fifty per cent — which it contains. 
Dr. Taylor proceeded to the shop of the baker, a respectable tradesman, 
and the cause of the green spots on the loaf at once met his eye. The 
shop had been recently re-decorated ; and, among other things, the 
shelves had been painted a brilliant Scheele's green. The hot loaves 
placed upon these painted shelves — .perhaps not thoroughly dry — had 
caused portions of the paint to adhere to them. Five or six loaves in 
succession examined in the baker's shop were all found to have more 
or less of the green adhering to them; the baker himself, quite unaware 
of the poisonous nature of the color, thinking little about it. Dr. Taylor 
states that, on the first loaf examined by him, there was enough of the 
arsenic paint to have killed an infant. To be sure, it is not to be sup- 
posed that any individual, whether infant or adult, would consume the 
whole crust; but still there might have been sufficient of the poison 
taken in to cause very serious symptoms. There cannot be too much 
caution exercised in the use of this paint in any situation, and it ought 
never to be allowed in connexion with eatables of any sort. Neverthe- 
less as Dr. Taylor remarks, " In England green sweetmeats are actually 
colored with it; and lemon acid, and other drops, are sometimes sold, 
wrapped in paper coarsely tinged or dyed green with this dangerous 
compound of arsenic. In foreign countries there are strong restrictions 
placed on the sale and use of this noxious pigment." 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 217 

A Cement fbr Cellar Floors. — Persons wisbmg to line their 
cellars, and who do not wish to go to the expense of buying cement, eaa 
take coal ashes and mix with water to the thickness of mort.fu-. This 
can be put on about four inches thick, after which lot it lay twenty-four' 
hours, then stamp it with a heavy block of wood three or four times a 
day, until it is perfectly hard. It is better than cement, as it will not 
crack or scale off, and the lumps of cinders contained in the ashes do no 
harm. 

Rasors — The simplest method of sharpening a razor is said to be 
to place the blade for about a half hour in' water, to Avhlch one twen- 
tieth of its weight of sulphuric or muriatic acid has previously been 
added. Upon taking the razor out, wipe it off lightly, and a few hours 
afterwards set it on a strop. The acid thus supplies the place of a whet- 
stone, by corroding the entire surface uniformly so that nothing but a 
good polish is afterwards needed. It is stated that this process never 
injures good razors, whilst poor ones are often improved by it. Tht<« 
mode of sharpening may be used with advantage for any kind of edged 
tools. 

To ©estroy Rats. — The Museum of Natural History at Paris 
was dreadfully infested with ratB; but thanks to M. Cloez, it is now free 
from the nuisance. The happy thought of pouring bisulphide of carbon 
into the holes occurred to this gentleman, aiul the vapor was fatal to 
all the rats which inhaled it. " That settled 'em." 

8alt in Ctlinineys. — In building chimneys bricklayers should 
put a quanity of salt into the mortar with which the interstices of brick 
are to be laid, The effect will be iliiir there will never be any accumu- 
lation of soot in the chimney, for the reason that the salt in the 
portion of mortar which is exposed absorbs moisture every damp day. 
The soot, thus becoming damp, falls down into the fire-place. 

To Clean ^teel Pens, — WIhmi the pen has been written with, 
and appears spoiled, plaee it over a iicrht (a gaslight, for instance,) for a 
short time — say a quarter of a minuiT — then dip it in water, and it will 
again be in good condition to write with. Also, any new pen which is 
too hard to write with, will become softer with being heated in the same 
way. 

moths. — For destroying moths in carpets, a plan which has been 
found perfectly successful is: — Wet a piece of muslin (an old sheet will 
answer very well), spread upon the carpet, and iron rapidly with a bat 
smoothing iron. This not only destrov?3 the moths in whatever stage 
they may be, but also cleans and fresheus the carpet 



218 MINK OF WEALTH; AND, 

To clarify Sugar. — Take four pounds of sugar, and break it 
into pieces ; put into a preserving-pan the white of an egg, and a glass 
of pure spring water; mix them well with a whisk, add another glass, 
still whipping, until two quarts, have been put in ; when the pan is full 
of froth, throw in the sugar, and set it on the fire, being careful to skim 
it everytirae the scum rises, which will be the case as the sugar boils up. 
After a few boilings, the sugar will rise so high as to run over the 
edges of the pan, to prevent which, throw on it a little cold water ; 
this will lower it instantly, and give time for the skimming, for the 
scum should never be taken off whilst the sugar is bubling; the cold 
stills it, and that is the moment to scum it. Repeat this operation care- 
fully three or four times, when a whitish light scum only will rise ; 
then take the pan off, lay a napkin, slightly wetted, over a basin, and 
pour the sugar through it. 

The scum thus taken off, put into a china basin; and when the sugar 
is clarified, wash the pan and skimmer with a glass of water, which 
put to the scum, and set it aside for more common purposes. 

To make Blacking. — Three ounces of ivory black; two 
ounces of treacle ; half an'ounce of vitriol; half an ounce of sweet oil ; 
quarter of a pint of vinegar, and three quarters of a pint of water. Mix 
the oil, treacle, and ivory black gradually to a paste ; then add the 
vitriol, and by degrees, the vinegar and water. It will produce a 
beautiful polish. 

To clean Marble. — Pound very finely a quarter of a pound 
of whitening and a small quantity of stone blue; dissolve in a little 
water one ounce of soda, and mix the above ingredients carefully 
together with a quarter of a pound of soft soap. Put the whole into an 
earthen pipkin, and boil it for a quarter of an hour on a slow fire, care- 
fully stirring it. Then when quite hot, lay it with a brush upon the 
mai'ble, and let it remain on half an hour. Wash it off with warm 
watar, flannel, and a scrubbing-brush, and wipe it dry. 

To remove Iron moulds. — Spirit of salt, oxalic acid, salt of 
lemons, are the usual applications to extract some unsightly stains ; and 
as they are all so much of the same nature, that, unless great caution be 
used in their applications, the article will drop into holes, it becomes 
every mistress of a family to consider whether such a risk should be left 
to a laundress, or whether she be not the more likely person to effect a 
perfect application, as she must or ought to have her own interests at 
heart, more strongly than a person wholly indifferent to her. The only 
caution requisite, is to rinse the article thoroughly after application. 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 219 

Fire-3»roof and TFater-proof Cement.— To a half a pint 
of milk, put an equal quantity of vinegar, in order to curdle it ; then 
j^eparate the curd from the whey, and mix the whey with the whites of 
five eggs beating the whole well together, when it is well mixed, add a 
little quick lime through a sieve, until it has acquired the consistence of 
a thick paste, with this cement broken vessels, and cracks of all kinds 
can be mended, it dries quickly and resists the action of fire and water. 

.To remove the smell of Paint. — Place tubs of water in 
the room and the water will absorb and retain the effluvium of the paint, 
repeat and you will not be troubled with the smell. 

Oil tor Furniture. — For polishing mahogany furniture, we 
would mention, and recommend the following — it is simply cold dravm 
linseed oil The property of this oil differs from that of most other 
oleaginous fluids ; essential oils, as those of cinnamon, cloves, &c., are 
pungent; t hat of others soft and lubricating, as olive, palm, gallipoli, 
neatsfuot. But linseed oil possesses more particularly a tendency to 
harden and become solid, on long exposure to the air. It is this peculiar 
quality that is taken advantage of in its application to furniture ; and, 
which, with a little patience, and no hard rubbing, will produce a 
varnish far superior in durability, beauty, and usefulness to French 
polish, or any mixture for the purpose, which we have ever seen ; and 
we believe that there is scarcely one which we do not know, and have 
not made trial of. 

A very little linseed oil is to be poured into a saucer ; then, with a 
small piece of clean rag smear the furniture with it. In a few minutes, 
wipe it off with an old duster kept for the purpose; and then rub the 
tables, &e, quite clean, with a second cloth. This simple, easy opera- 
tion, performed regularly once a week, will gradually produce a polish 
that is unrivalled : for unless it were to be washed with soap, it will 
not injure ; boiling water even might be poured over it with impunity ; 
indeed, occasional washing with plain water, is an advantage to it. 
Unlike the easily spoiled varnishes of the shops, furniture that is rubbed 
with this oil is not so readily scratched ; and, if it be, the next week's 
application will nearly obliterate the marks. Again, the pores of the 
wood being filled with the application, it becomes very hard, and is able 
to resist the attacks of insects. We have possessed articles of furniture 
thus polished so beautifully, that our simple plan has been conjec^'ired 
to be a newly invented preparation — •" yet unknown to fame." W> are 
aware that this method of beautifying furniture is well, bu> ''>t 
generally known. 



220 MINE OF WEALTH ; AND, 

Perftime lor IVote Paper. — Powdered starch one half 

ounce : otto of roses four drops ; orris powder one half ounce ; the above 
should be put into bags, and kept in the writing desk, with the paper 
desired to be perfumed, this is the article used by the Queen of Eng 
land. 

To make Walnut wood color. — A. given quantity of 
cerute, half that quantity of ochre de rue, a little umber earth, red ochre, 
and yellow ochre de berri, compose this color proper for distemper 
varnish, and oil. 

To render I^eather waterproof. — Take of neats foot and 
linseed oil two quarts, boil them two hours, then add six ounces of 
Indian rubber, and let the whole boil, until the rubber is dissolved; 
apply with a soft brush a little at a time. 

To give Plaster fig^ures the appearance of JVIarble. 
— Dissolve one ounce of pure cui'd soap, grated in four ounces of water, 
in a greased earthen vepsel ; add one ounce of white wax cut in thin 
slices, when the whole is incorporated it is fit for use ; having dried the 
figure before the fire, suspend it by a string and dip it in the mixture ; 
when it has absorbed the varnish, dip it a second time, and that gener- 
ally suffices; cover it carefully from the dust for a week then rub it 
gently with soft cotton wool, and you will have a brilliant shining 
gloss, exactly resembling polished marble. 

method for coolings liiqilids. — An old fashioned yet a 
simple, receipt for cooling liquids is to wrap a wet cloth round the bottle, 
and expose it to the rays of the sun, this will soon have the desired 
effect. 

Preserving Vinegar for Domestic purposes. — Cork 
it up in glass bottles, set them over the fire with cold water, and as 
much hay as will prevent them from knocking together ; when the water 
nearly boils, take off the pan, and let the bottle remain in the hay a 
quarter of an hour, vinegar thus prepared never loses its virtue though 
kept many years, or occasionaly left uncovered and is peculiarly adapted 
for pickles. 

Turkish Cream. — Two teaspoonsfuls of white sugar, one tea 
spoonful of raspberry jam, two whites of eggs, juice of one lemon ; heat 
for one hour, and serve up sprinkled with fancy biscuits. 

To soften old Putty. — Dip a small brush in a little nitric 
or muriatic acid, and go over the putty with it ; let it rest awhile and it 
will become bo soft that you can remove it with ease. 



OFIDE FOR THE MILLION". 221 

Tv clean the Chimneys of Iiamps. — Put a teaspoonfal 
of oil of vitriol, in a long deep pie dish, of luke warm water, let the lamp 
chimneys remain in this for a quarter of an hour ; in wiping dry, all 
smoke and discolorations will disappear. 

To make Ink fbr marking: Steel. — Dissolve sulphate of 
copper, in water, add a little sulphuric acid use a pen for writing, imme- 
diately on application copper letters will be formed on the iron or steel 5 
it may be made without the use of vitriol. 

How to restore discolored Cnloves. — Have ready a little 
new milk in one saucer, and a piece of brown soap in an other, and 
likewise a clean towel rolled three or four times, spread out the glove 
smooth upon the cloth, dip a piece of flannel in the milk, rub it well 
upon the soap, and with this rub the glove downwards, towards the 
fingers, holding it firmly with the left hand, continue this process until 
the glove is white, looks like a dingy yellow though clean ; if colored 
till it looks dark and spoiled ; lay it to dry and it wiil look equal to 
new, soft, glossy, smooth shaped, and elastic. 

Cement for g^lazingr an Aquarium.— Putty mixed with 
any kind of mastic; it is very important, however, that the water should 
not be put in the tank, until the cement is perfectly hardened. 

To streng^tlten and improve the Yoi(^e.— Take of 
beeswax two drachms; Copaibia balsam, three drachms, pow^der of 
liquorice root four drachms ; melt the Copaiba balsam with the wax, in 
a new earthen pipkin ; when melted remove them from the fire, and 
while in a melted state, mix in the powder, make pills of three grains 
each, two of these pills to be taken occasionally three or four times a day 
this is an excellent remedy for clearing and strengthening the voice, 
and is used by most professional singers on the continent. 

To remove Sunburn. — Milk of almonds made thus; take 
blanched bitter almonds one half ounce, soft water one half pint, make 
an emulsion by beating the almonds and water together, strain through 
a muslin cloth and it is made. 

Receipt for joining* g-lass. — Melt a little isinglass in the 
spirits of wine, and add a small quantity of water. Warm the mixture 
^utly over a moderate fire, when mixed by thoroughly melting it will 
form glue perfectly transparent, and which will reunite glass so nicely 
and firmly, that the joining will scarcely be perceptible even to the most 
critical eye. Lime mixed with the white of an egg forms a very strong, 
cement for glass, porcelain, &c. but it must be done neatly, so when hard, 
the superfluous part cannot be easily smoothed or taken off. 



222 MINE OP WEALTH ] AND^ 

Rosemary wash for the Hair. — Boil one pound of rose> 
mary in two quarts of water, and add to the filtered liquor one ounce 
of spirit of lavender, and one ounce of salt of tartar. 

To mix Oil IFith Water. — Salts of tartar, is the best and 
cheapest substance, thus uniting two qualifications, it will cause any 
oil to unite with water. 

IiaTender "Water. — One quart of rectified spirits of wine'; 
essential oil of lavender two ounces ; essence or ambergris five drachms ; 
put it all into a bottle, and shake it until it is incorporated. 

To preserve Seaweeds. — Put each specimen in a plate full 
of water, it will then be easy to spread out and arrange the branches 
or fibres, then introduce a sheet of paper under the seaweed and carefully 
raise it out of the water, the specimen will be beautifully displayed upon 
the paper, by means of the gluten in the seaweed. ' 

HoKF to make cheap French Polish fbr Boots 
and Shoes. — Mix together two pints of vinegar, and one pint of 
soft water; stir into it, one quarter of a pound of glue broken into 
small pieces, half a pound of logwood chips, quarter ounce of soft soap, 
and a quarter of an ounce of isinglass, put it on the fire, and when it 
boils up, continue the boiling for ten minutes longer. Strain it, and 
bottle and cork it : when cold it is ready for use ; before putting it on 
the boots and shoes, remove the dirt with a sponge and w^ater, then pnt 
on the polish with a clean brush. 

To remove Grease from the Collar of a Coat.— 

Obtain six cents worth of ammonia, and mix it in a pint of cold water 
then well sponge the collar or other parts, until the grease disappears, 
which it will quickly do. 

To take Grease out of Carpets. — Scrape and pound 
together in equal proportions, magnesia in the lump, and fullers earth ; 
'having mixed these substances, pour on them a sufficient quantity of 
boiling water to make into a paste ; lay this on as hot as possible upon 
the grease spots, in the carpet and let it dry. Next day when the compo- 
sition is quite dry, brush it oflf and the grease spots will have disappeared. 

To clean Plaster of Paris Btists. — Take a small piece 
of very clean whiting, and dissolve it in a little water, then lay it over 
the bust in the form of whitewash, a little isinglass added to the water, 
made warm previous to mixing with the whiting will prevent the white 
rubbing off when touched. . ... 



GUIDE FOB THE MILLION. 223 

To grive a fine (color to Iflahog^any. — Let the article be 
washed perfectly clean with vinegar, first having taken out any ink 
stains there may be with spirits of salt. Use the following liquid: — 
into a pint of cold linseed oil, put six cents worth of alkanet root, and 
two cents worth of rose pink in an earthen vessel; let it remain all 
night, then stirring well, rub some of it all over the article with a linen 
rag ; when it has lain some time, rub it bright with linen cloths. 

To gi'kd Ivory. — Put the ivory you intend to gild into a solu- 
tion of sulphate of iron (copperas) and then into a solution of nitro- 
•muriate of gold ; on withdrawing it from the latter, it will be beauti 
fully gilded. 

Remedy for Dandruff— Let the roots of the hair be well 
washed with the following solution every day; lime water, one pint; 
distilled vinegar, one fourth pint. Mix. 

Preventative ag^ainst Ifloth^ — Strew camphor or peppar 
over the things you wish to preserve from moths. 

To take Ink out of muslin. — Dip the part stainad with ink 
into cold water. Then fill a small basin with boiling water, and on 
the top place a pewter plate ; lay the muslin on the plate, then salt of 
lemon or tartaric acid upon the spot, rubbing it with the broad of a 
spoon; the spot will then immediately disappear. 

Tainted Meat. — The taint may be removed by covering it for a 
few hours with charcoal, or by putting a few pieces of charcoal into the 
water, in which the tainted meat is boiled. 

Fire in the Chimney. — In case of fire in the chimney, it 
is an excellent plan, to put salt on the fire, as it acts chemically om 
the flaming soot above. 

For Making the hair Curl.— Beat up the yolk of an egg 
^ with a pint of clean rain water or lime water, a pint distilled ; vinegar, 
a quarter of a pint: — Mix/; to be applied warm, and afterwards wash the 
head with warm water. 

Invaluable Dentrifice. — Dissolve two ounces of borax in 
three pints of water ; before getting cold, add one teaspoonful of myrrh, 
and one tablespoonful of camphor ; bottle the mixture for use, one 
wine glass of the solution added to a half a pint of tepid water, is suffi- 
cient for each application, this solution applied daily, preserves and 
beautifies the teeth, arrests decay, and produces a healthy action of 
the gums. ... 



224 MINE OF WEALTH, AND 

JQ[ow to Freshen !§alt Fish. — Many persons who are iu llie 

habit of freshening mackerel or other salt fish, never dream that there is 
a right and a wrong way to do it. Any one who has seen the process 
of evaporation going on at the salt woiks knows that salt falls to the 
bottom. Just so it is in the pan where your mackerel or white fish lies 
soaking ; and as it lies with the skin .'^ide down, the salt will fall to 
the skin, and remain there ; when, if placed with the flesh side down, 
the salt falls to the bottom of the pan, and the fish comes out freshened 
as it should ; in the other case it is nearly as salt as when put in. 

To Relieve a Cou§^8i. — This is the sea.son for colds ; and colds 
are the forerunners of consumption. Attend seasonably to the first," 
if you would avoid the last. For years we have found the following 
preparation the best for the cure or relief of a cough we have ever tried: 
— Take two ounces flaxseed, tAvo ounces stick liquorice, half a pound 
brown sugar, half a pound raisins, one quart cider. Boil the whole 
down to one pint; strain it off and put it aside for use. Whenever the 
cough is troublesome, take a table.spooufu! at a time. 

A T¥ei¥ TreatmCBlt Ibr "'Bl'oiiiBds. — A French surgeon has 
discovered a new method of treating vvouuds which is said to be very 
successful. A jet of air is poured upon the wound by means of an or- 
dinary pair of bellows, which causes a film to form, by means of which 
the healing process is greatly facilitated. 

Hxternal ApplieatsoBi of Caster IHfl. — It is said castor 
oil is much better to soften and redeem old leather, than any other oil 
known. When boots and shoes are grea.sed with it, the oil will not at 
all interfere with the polishing afterwards, avS in the case> with lard, 
olive, or any other oil. In Harrisburg, the old leather hose of some 
of the fire companies were greased with it, and found to become almost 
ati soft and flexible as new leather. Leather belts for transmitting 
motion in machinery will usually last three or five years, according to 
the wear and tear they are exposed to ; when greased with castor oil 
they will last ten years or more, as they always remain flexible and do 
not crack. Besides this advantage, castor oil prevents slipping, so that 
a belt three inches wide, impregnated with it, will be equal to a belt 
four and a half inches wide without ca.^^lor oil. It is necessary, bow- 
ever, to M^ait twenty-four hours till the oil has disappeared fro.m the 
surface and penetrated the leather, otherwise the freshly greased sui'ftice 
will cause slipping. That rats and other vermin detest anything im- 
pregnated with castor oil and will not touch it, is aaather advantage. 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 225 

' " The Use of Bci^rax in "Washing. — In Belgium and Holland, 
linen is prepared beautifully, because the washerwomen use refined borax, 
instead of soda, as a washing powder. One large handful of borax is 
used to every ten gallons of boiling water, and the saving in soap is 
said to be one-half. For laces and cambrics an extra quantity is used. 
Borax does not injure the linen and it softens the hardest water. A 
teaspoonful of borax added to an ordinary seized kettle of hard water, in 
which it is allowed to boil, will effectually soften the water. 

Receipt Worth a Tliousand l>oIlaiL*s. — Take one pound 
of sal-soda and a half apound of unslacked lime, put them in a gallon 
of water and boil twenty minutes ; let it stand till cool, then drain 
off and put in a strong jug or jar. Soak your dirty clothes over night, or 
until they are wet through, then wring them out and rub on plenty 
of soap, and in one boiler of clothes, well covered with water, add one 
tea-cupful of washing fluids Boil half an hour briskly, then wash them 
thoroughly through one suds, rinse, and your clothes will look better 
than the old way of washing twice before boiling — This is a valua- 
ble receipt, and I want every poor tired woman to try it. I think with 
a patent wash-tub to do the little rubbing, the washer-woman might take 
,the old Bible and compose herself on a lounge, and let the washing do 
itself. 

Good Vinegar. — Here is a receipt which will be worth consider- 
ation to our readers who are fond of making vinegar: It may not 
generally be known that an excellent article of vinegar may be made 
by taking the late stalks of rhubarb, and chopping them as one would 
for pies or sauce ; then pour scalding water over the whole, and let 
it stand on the stove till well cooked ; then strain off into a suitable ves- 
sel, add one gill of molasses to each quart of the juice : set it in a sunny 
place ; stir occasionally, and in a few weeks one may have a stout article 
of vinegar. 

Sweet Green Tomato Pickle. — Peel and slice two gallpns 
ef green tomatoes, five tablespoonsful of ground mustard seed, two 
gills of mustard seed, two tablespoonsful of ground cinnamon, one table- 
spoonful of cloves, one pound of brown sugar, three quarts of vinegar. 
Boil altogether until quite done. If you choose, you may use one spoon- 
ful gtound and a portion of cinnamon batk. Celery tops improve the 
flavor. They are excellent. 

Tomato Catsup, T¥o. 1. — Wash and boil one bushel tomatoes. 
When soft, pass the whole through a colander, mashing the mass till it 
has ceased to drip. There will be about eleven quarts of juice. Put this 



226 MINE OF WEALTH, AND ' 

in a china-lined kettle, and add four tablespoonsful of salt, one of allspice, 
three of ground mustard, a teaspoonful and a half of ground black pep- 
per, one of cayenne. — Boil this two hours at least ; if you wish it thick, 
three or four hours. Bottle, putting a little sweet oil on the top of each 
to exclude air. Seal and it is ready for use in two weeks — is better in 
two years. 

*2. — Take six pounds of tomatoes and sprinkle with salt ; let them 
remain a day or two, then boil and press through a coarse sieve or 
colander. Put into the liquor half a pint of vinegar, cloves, pepper, gin- 
ger and cinnamon ; boil them, one-third away ; bottle tight. It should 
be shaken before being used. .,, 

To Test ©old or Silver. — Metals purporting to be gold or sil- 
ver, may be easily tested by moistening the metal and rubbing lunar caus- 
tic on the wet part. If the metal is pure the mark will be faint, bttt 
if it is not pure the mark will be darker in proportion as the alloy is 
greater, until in the case of counterfeit or base metals the mark will be 
quite black. 

fi^list. — Every particle of rust on iron may be removed by first soften- 
ing it with petroleum and then rubbing it well with coarse sand-paper. 
To paint iron, take lamp-black suflSicient for two coats, and mix "wtth 
equal quantities of Japan varnish and boiled linseed oil. 

« Antidote lor Pobsobi. — After many experiments by the officers 
of the Smithsonian Institute and other scientific gentlemen, a certain 
cure is said to have been found for snake bite. It is as follows : Ten 
grains iodide of potassum, and thirty grains iodine, to be dissolved in one 
ounce of water, to be kept in a bottle with a ground glass stopper, and to 
be applied externally — never internally. If possible, stop the circulation 
in the parts bitten by, bandaging and use a stick or anything to tighten 
the bandage, and apply the solution to the bite with a piece of cotton, 
sponge, or anything that will hold the fluid, and then bind it to the 
wound and keep wet until the cure is effected. It is said that five 
drops of undiluted poison from the fangs of a rattlesnake, mixed with 
five drops of the above solution and inserted in a wound with a syringe, 
was as harmless as ten drops of water. 

IncoMibtBstflfole "Wash. — Slake some stone lime in a large tub 
or barrel, with boiling water ; when slaked, pass six quarts of it through 
a fine sieve. It will then be in a state of fine flour. Now to six quarts 
of this lime add one quart of salt and one gallon of water; then boil the 
. mixture and skim it clean. To every five gallons of this mixture add 
ono pound of alum, half pound of copperas, by slow degrees, three quar- 



©UIDE FOR THE MILLION. 

ters of a pound of potash, and four quarts of white sand, or hard wood- 
ashes sifted. This solution will admit of any colored matter, and may 
be applied with a brush. It is more durable than paint It will stop 
small leaks in the roof, prevent the moss from growing over and rotting 
the wood, and renders it incombustible from sparks falling upon it. 
When laid upon brick work, it renders the brick impervious to rain or 
wet. 

Choosang* Carpets. — A carpet should be always chosen as a 
back-ground, upon which the other articles of furniture are to be placed, 
and should, from its sober colors and unattractive features, have a ten- 
dency rather to improve, by comparison, objects placed upon it than 
command for itself the notice of the spectator. It should vie with 
nothing, but rather give value to all objects coming in contact with it. 
Composed of sombre shade's and'' tMes,iand treated essetitially as d flat 
surface, it exerts a most valuable though subordinate influence upon all 
the other decorations of the day. Upon it the eye rests while surveying 
the more important furniture ; and its presence, properly treated, supplies 
the necessary materia! for a satisfactory contrast with other portions 
of the decoration, which comparison in nowise detracts from its own 
peculiar degree of merit, but proves from this circumstance how valuable 
it is a,s contributing to the pleasing eifect of the whole apartment. 

To Imitate II.©se"«ro©d. — Boil half a pound of log^wood in 
three pints of water till it is of a vei-y dark red, and half an ounce 
of salt of tartar. While boiling hot, stain the wood with two or three 
coats, taking care that it Is nearly dry Ijetween each; then, with a 
stiff flat brush, such as painters use for graining, form streaks with a 
black stain, which, if carefully executed, will be very nearly the appear- 
ance of dark rosewood. Stain for mahogany - Put one pound of log- 
wood in four quarts of water, and add a double handful of walnut peels. 
Boil it up again, take out the 'c¥ips, add one pint of the beSt vinegar and 
It will be fit for use. 

To Fill Cracks lia FiiilPltStlli^e.~-Moisten a j)ieee of recently 
burned lime with enougb water to make it fall into powder; mix one paA 
of tliin slacked lime with two parts of rye flour and a sufficient quantity 
of boiled linseed oil to form it into a thick, plastic mass. 

Frosted I^ilMljS. — Frosted linjbs are permanently relieved by one 
or two applications of a boiled lye of wood ashes, made so strong as to 
be quite slippery between the fingers. This'lye should settfe,''be'draiiied 
off, and bave a large handful of common salt to eac^ quart of lye mixed 
with it. It should be quite warm, and the liai'bs be submerged for 
<as€ or two hoars. 



228 MINE OP WEALTH; AND, 

To obtain a beautiful, clear, white, complexion, and 
a brilliant appearance of the skin. — Prepare a wash of one 
ounce of benzoic acid in six ounces of water. This is harmless, but 
etfectual. The greater part of the highly praised nostrums of the day con- 
tain more or less of that dangerous preparation — white lead. 

Extract of Rose-leaf Geranium. — Dissolve three ounces of 
oil of Rose-geranium in one gallon of deodorized alcohol. By filtering' 
alcohol through charcoal it becomes deoderized of the fusel smell. 

Offensive Breath.— This is easily cured and the mouth entirely 
disinfected by washing the mouth with a solution of chlorinated lime. 
Finely pulverized charcoal is another disinfectant for the mouth, bat not 
so efficient. 

rifeir process for remoTlng^ Freckles. — Take finely pow- 
dered nitre, (saltpetre) and apply to the freckles, by the finger moistened 
with water and dipped in the powder. When perfectly done and judi- 
ciously repeated it will remove them effectually and without trouble. 

I§k;ent Powders. — To be used for scent bags, wardrobes, boxes, 
&c. — Corianders, orris root, rose leaves, and aromatic calamas, each four 
ounces ; lavender flowers, eight ounces ; rhodium wood, one drachm ; 
musk, twenty grains. Mix and reduce to course powder. 

To clean kid glOTCS. — Make a strong lather with curd soap and 
warm water, in which steep a small piece of new flannel. Place the glove 
on a flat, clean, and unyielding surface — such as the bottom of a dish, 
and having thoroughly soaped the flannel (when squeezed from the 
lather), rub the kid till all dirt be removed, cleaning and resoaping the 
flannel from time to time. Care must be taken to omit no part of the 
glove, by turning the fingers, &c. The gloves must be dried in the sun 
or before a moderate fire, and will present the appearance of old parch- 
ment. When quite dry, they must be gradually " pulled out," and, will 
look new. We have repeatedly tried the above with success. 

To Protect Children firom Burning^. — Add one ounce of 
alum to the last water used to rinse children's dresses, and they will be 
rendered uninflamable, or so slightly combustible that they would take 
fire very slowly, if at all, and would not flame. This is a simple precau- 
tion, which may be adopted in families of children. Bed curtains, and 
linen in general, may also be treated in the same way. 

Diminution of Smoke. — Smoke from the fires of private 
houses in winter, may be greatly lessened by lighting the fires from 
the top, whereby much of the smoke is cousamed. 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 229 

To Preserve Apples and Pears. — Take a large jar coated 
inside with cement and place a layer of fine sand on the bottom, select 
the best fruit, either apples or pears, and having wiped thoroughly dry 
place a layer on the sand in the jar, taking care that the fruit does not 
touch ; then alternate layers of sand and fruit until the jar is filled, cov- 
ering the whole with a thick layer of the sand gently pressed down. 
Keep the jar in a dry place free from all moisture and the fruit will keep 
in fine condition for some months. 

Economical Hair l^ash. — Take one ounce of borax, half and 
ounce of camphor, powder these ingredients fine, and dissolve them in one 
quart of boiling water when cool, the solution will be ready for use ; 
damp the hair frequently. This wash not only eflfectually cleanses and 
beautifies, but strengthens the hair, preserves the color, and prevents 
early baldness. The camphor will form into lumps, but the water wii|l. 
be sufiicieutly impregnated. 

fiEow to Renovate Black Cloth. — Boil half a pound of log. 
wood and half an ounce of copperas chips in three pints of water until 
reduced to a quart ; when cold add two ounces of alcohol ; mix well and 
apply to the cloth with a h&rd brush ; when dry brush with a soft 
brush. 

Excellent Ooniestic Yeast.— One pound of good flour, s 
quarter of a pound of brown sugar, and two ounces of salt boiled to- 
gether for one hour. White yet warm bottle and cork close. One pint 
of this will make eighteen pounds of bread. , . 

IIoiV to do up §liirt Bosoms. — Dissolve two ounces of fine 
white gum arabic in a pitcher containing a pint or more of boiling 
water, according to the degree of strength required — cover and let stand 
twelve hours, then decant carefully from the dregs into a clean bottle^ 
cork, and keep for use. A tablespoonful of this added to a pint of starch 
made in the usual manner will give to shirt bosoms, or any article 
of lawn (white or colored) a pewness of appearance when nothing else 

can restore them. "^ 

• r 

To ilfeSt Iron Instantly. — Bring iron to a white heat, and 
then apply a roll of sulphur to it. The iron will instantly melt. 

Canslles^ Plain flints Atoout— Candles improve by keeping a 
few months. Those made in winter are the best. The most economical^ 
as well as the most convenient plan, is to purchase them by the box^ 
■keeping them alway in a cool dry place. If wax candles become discol- 
oured or .soiled, they may be restored by rubbing them over with a clean 



H$^ MINE OF WEALTH; AND, 

flannel slighty dippei in spirits of wine. Candles ar6 sometimes dif- 
ficult to light. They ignite instantly if, when preparing them for the 
evening, you dip the top in spirits of wine shortly before they are wanted.' 
Light them always with a match, and do not hold them to the fire, as that 
will cause the tops to melt and drip. Always hold the match to the side 
of the wick, and not over the tbp. If you find the candles too small for 
the candlesticks, always Wra^ a small piece of white paper round the 
bottom end, not allowing the paper to appear above the socket. Cut the 
wicks to a convenient length for lighting (nearly close), for if the wick 
is too long at the top it will be very difficult to ignite, and will also bend 
down, and set the candles to running. Glass receivers, for the droppings 
for candles, are very convenient, as well as ornamental. The pieces of 
calidles that are left each evening shoald be placed in a tin box kept for 
that purpose, and used for bed-lights. 



Twelve Golden Maxims For Families, 

I. Health must be regarded. — This demands the first attention, 
and unceasing regard. The laws of health must be observed, and 
those wise and efficient means must be uniformly employed, by 
which, in connexion with the Divine blessing, the health of the 
various members of the Family may be secured. It is deeply to be 
regretted that so many Families disregard the laws of health: we 
cannot wonder that illness so often prevails, — that death so prema- 
turely ensues. 

II. Education must be early attended to. — The mind must 
be early cultivated : acquisitions, varied and important, must be 
continually gained. The faculties must be wisely and vigorously 
disciplined not only from the consideration of the happiness which 
will be secured, and the true respectability which will be attained ; 
but from the conviction that, at the present period, a good sound 
education will be essential to the members of our Households in fu- 
ture life, — that they will be worth comparatively nothing without it. 

III. Amiable tempers must be cherished. — The kindly dispo 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 2M- 

sitions in our Families are not only desirable, but indispensible ; 
there is no domestic happiness without them. One must be bland, 
courteous, and amiable, to another. The law of kindness must be 
the rule — gpverning, moulding, harmonizing the Family. I'here 
must be nothing hard, stern or unyielding; but mutual concession.-,, 
mutual tenderness, mutual love. 

ly. Industrious habits must be formed. — Nothing is raoi-e 
essential. Unless active habits are cultivated, and cultivated Irom 
principal, no progress can be made in anything that is valuable ; no 
respectability, intellectual, social or moral, can be gained; no confi- 
dence on the part of others can be realized ; no blessings fr<im 
Heaven can be vouchsafed. Indolent apathetic Families, habit- 
ually sluggish, and indisposed to labour, are ignorant, unhappy, im- 
moral. This may be regarded as an indisputable fact. 

V. AIUTUAL CONFIDENCE MUST BE REPOSED. — There mUst be no 
shyness of each other. There must be no jealousy, no undue cau- 
tion, no distrust. If these feelings be manifested in the Family 
circle, there will be no comfort; there will be a canker-worm atHaa 
root of domestic happiness ; and this want of confidence will in- 
crease, until every thing that is petulant and malicious will be dis- 
covered. 

VI. A CONTINUAL DESIRE FOR DOMESTIC TRANQUILITY MUST BE 

CHERisflED. — What can be more desirable than peace in our dwel- 
lings? that peace which is the result of love, — which springs from 
mutual respect and forbearance, — which is associated with prin- 
ciple, — which is the consequence of the fear of Grod, — which is iden- 
tified with filial and unwavering trusfin him. A tranquil, lia[)py 
home, is the very emblem of Heaven. 

VII. The parental character must be highly respected. 
— There will be no domestic blessing, without this. There will be 
no true dignity in the Family, without this. There will be no real 
prosperity at home, without this. Parents must occupy their ap- 



232 ' MINE OF WEALTH ; AND, 

propriute place : they are the heads of Families, and they must be 
regarded as such. There must be no neglect; no disrespect must 
be shown them. There must be no contempt of their authority, no 
indisposition to render obedience. Children must valuej,nd honour 
their parents, else instead of having a blessing throughout life, they 
wiU be sure to have a curse. 

VIII. Domestic order must be maintained. — Where there 
is disoi'der, there is no tranquillity, no excellence, no advancement, 
no happiness. Order in Families is essential to their peace, eleva- 
tion, and progress. In our households, every thing should be done 
at the best time, as well as the best manner. There should be rules 
to direct and govern, from which there should be no deviation, 
unless necessity compel. Disorderly habits, a constant want of ar- 
laiiLjetnents, will entail nothing but loss and misery; and as the 
child]-en grow up, these habits will be rendered fixed and perma- 
nent, so that they will become men and women, fathers and mothers 
without any love of rule or order. 

IX. The love op Home must be fostered. — There is no affec- 
tion, when it is cherished from an early period, and from principle, 
which is stronger : and sure we are, that there is no feeling which 
is more valuable and important. It is connected with a thousand 
endeiirments; it preserves from a thousand temptations ; it is iden- 
tified with the cultivation of the noblest priniciples, and purest emo- 
tions ; and it is inseparable from peace and happiness. In such a 
world as ours, Home should be the refuge from danger; the spot 
where freedom is found from every care; the haven where tranquil 
waters are met with after the fiercest storm. 

X. Sympathy under domestic trials must be expressed. 
— There must be no cold no unfeeling heart displayed. Family 
difficulties will occur ; Family changes will be experienced ; 
Family sorrow will be endured ; Family bereavements will be under- 
gone and in these situations, there must be sympathetic and tender 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 238 

emotions clierished. The Parents must feel for the Children, and 
the Children for the Parents ; Brothers must be S:ind and compas- 
sionate towards their Sisters in affliction; and Sisters must endeavour 
to alleviate the sorrow and burden of their Brothers. Thus will 
support be administered under the heaviest pressure; consolation be 
afforded during painful illnesses and protracted calamities, and 
the benediction of Heaven be graeiously imparted. 

XI. Sincere prayer must be presented for each other. — 
Parents in this way especially must remember their children, 
and children their parents. It is the best kind of remembrance ; 
the most beautiful expression of love. There should be in the 
Family circle the elevation of the heart to God, for his blessing. 
Mutual prayer will cement mutual love, — will alleviate mutual 
sorrows, — will sweeten mutual mercies, — will heighten and purify 
mutual joys. Where these elevated feelings are not cultivated, 
there is no happiness, no security. 

XII. The family must look forward to a purer, brighter, 
NOBLER, WORLD THAN THIS : — A world where there shall be no 
ignorance to darken, no error to mislead, ho infirmities to lament, 
no enemies to assail, no cares to harass, no sickness to endure, no 
changes to experience ; but where all will be perfect bliss unclouded 
light, unspotted purity, immortal tranquillity and joy. 

Members of Families, in passing through life, should make it 
apparent, by their principles, by their habits, by their conversation, 
by their spirit, by their aims, that they are above the present transi- 
tory scene ; and that they are intensely anxious to unite again in 
that world of peace, harmony, and love, where there will be nothing 
to defile or alloy, and where the thought of separation will be 
unknown. 

Families! make the above maxims your governing principles, 
and we promise you domestic bliss. Wherever you may find dis 
comfort abroad, you will be sure to realize happiness at Home 



284 MINE OF WEALTH; AND, 

','•'0 .it Maxims for the Sedentary. '''^•^£■''"0"' ^iT"'*rm 
o 

Eat no suppers, or at least let them be light ; half a dozen oysters, 
or a cup of sago are the best. Brush the mouth and teeth well 
every morning, with a toothbrush and cold water. It would be 
well to do the same at night. Never allow the stomach to remain 
too long without food, nor stop the sensation of hunger by drink. 
If employed in study, always make an hour subservient to pleasure 
and exercise in the open air. Do not walk to fatigue, for that 
debilitates very much. Dancing is a most wholesome exercise both 
for the mind and body, but avoid excess in it. Nuts of all kinds 
are unwholsome. Always keep the feet from wet. Beware of 
damj. beds, for these are destructive to health. Should you be 
caught in a rain shower change the damp clothing as quick as pos- 
sible and rub the body dry. 



How to Make a Will. 
Take care that if written on several sheets of paper, they are all 
fastened together, and that the pages are numbered. Sign your 
name at the bottom of each sheet, and state at the end of your will 
of how many pages it consists. If there are any erasures or inter- 
lineations, put your initials in the margin opposite to them, and 
notice them in the attestation. The attestation should be already 
written at the end of the will. The two persons intended to be the 
witnesses should be called in, and told that you desire them to wit- 
ness your will, and then you should sign your name in their 
presence, desiring them each to look at the signature. Your signa- 
ture should follow your will, but should precede the signatures of 
the witnesses, for if you were to sign after they have signed, your 
will would be void. When therefore, you hare signed they should 



GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 235 

sign their names and residences at the foot of the attestation. You 
will observe tbat, according to the attestation, neither of the wit- 
nesses although he has signed the attestation, should leave the room 
until the other witness has signed also. Remembering that they 
must both sign in your presence, and therefore you should not allow 
them to go into another room to sign, or even any recess, or anj'^ 
part of the same room, where it is possible that you might not see 
them sign. Iftherfore, you do not choose them to sign after you 
at the same table or desk, have a table placed close to you before 
they come into the room, so as to create no confusion, at which 
they can and ought to sign before leaving the room. If you were 
to send your servant, who happened to be one of your intended wit- 
nesses, out of the room even for a table, he must leave the room be- 
fore you sign, if after your death, a question were to arise upon the 
fact of your having signed in the presence of both the witnesses pres- 
ent at the same time, the man would of course, admit that he left the 
room before you did sign, and then imagine what reliance would be 
placed upon the fact in cross-examination, and in the address to 
the jury. 



Syrrfpathetic Inks. 

Secret Writing was known to the ancients but we nave no 
direct evidence that it was used among them for secret intercourse 
during war, though there is every probability of it. 

In modern times the subject has received from several of the early 
chemists considerable attention, which although it has not materially 
benefited science, has nevertheless afforded much amusement to its 
followers ; we therefore offer some practical hints upon the subject- 

Sympathetic Inks which, from their property of being invisible 
when written with, and remaining so till they have undergone some 
process, formed the medium by which secret writing was carried on. 

These inks are usually divided into three classes. — 1. Those ren- 



Inks made Solution of 


become 


Gre^n vitriol 


black 


Pcrchloride of mercury- 


u 


Nitrate of copper 


brown 


Solution 0*" T;oId 


purple 


Nitrate of Cobalt 


blue 


Oreen vitrol 


(( 


Carbonate of iron 


t( 


Arseniate of Potash 


green 


Alum in lemon juice 


grey 


Nitrate of bismuth 


yellow 


Muriate of Antimony 


(1 


Diacetateof Lead 


li 


Nitrate of mercury 


crimson 


Corrosive sublimate 


scarlet 


Rock alum 


white 



236 MINE OF WEALTH; AND, 

dered visible by moistening the writing with another liquid, or by 
exposure to vapour. 2. Those rendered visible by sifting some 
finely powdered dark or highly -coloured substance over the writing. 
'd. Those rendered visible by heat. 

First Class. — The inks in this class require the aid of some 
li(|uid, or vapour, to render them visible thus. — 

When WasJved out-c 
Decoction or tincture of galls. 
Hydrochlorate of tin. 
Prussiate of Potash. 
Muriate of tin. 
Oxalic acid. .) 

Prussiate of Potash. 
Prussiate of Potash. t 

Nitrate of copper. 
Water. 

Prussiate of Potash. 
Decoction of tincture of galls. 
Chromate of Potash. , 

Chromateof Potash. 
Iodide of Potash. . 1 

Water. 

If the writing is to be rendered legible by exposure to a vapour 
write with a solution of nitrate of bismuth, or diacetate of lead, 
which becomes black when exposed to sulphuretted hydrogen. ' 

Second Class. — This includes almost all glutinous expressed 
juices of plants, milk of animals, or any other viscid fluids, which, 
when dry are invisible, but by being inverted over steam, or being 
breathed on, and having some coloured powder sifted over the writ- 
ing, become visible from the viscous nature of the ink attracting 
and retaining the powder. An illustration of this class is afforded 
by writing with milk, to be afterwards dusted with soot. 

Third Class. — This class, from the beauty of the colours it in- 
cludes, and the property most of the inks possess of the colour disap- 
pearing again when allowed to cool in a moist place, is capable of 
affording considerable amusement, by employing the inks as the 
colouring matter in certain portions of drawings ; and it is to encour- 
age this kind of amusement that we introduce the subject. 

As some of the inks included in this class are only rendered vie- 



QV^lpK FOE THE MILLION. 237 

hie by heat, withotit losing the colour again on cooling, we shall 
treat of these previous to describing the others:— 

Black Ink is produced by writing with a solution of sal amoniac, 
or diluted snl-planriG, 'dcid ] broivnish black, hj lemon juice ; 6rowm, 
by milk; brownish yellow^ by juice of onions. 

Nitre, alum, tartar, and sea salt, produce nearly the same effects, 
but not so decidedly. 

^,, Those inks which lose their colour on cooling, and resume it on 
the application of heat, are now to be considered. If a landscape, 
or view of mountain scenery for instance be drawn and painted as 
usual, omitting the colouring and outline of the foliage of the trees, 
the grass, thatch, water, reeds, parts of the sky, &c., or even figures 
of men, birds, or animals, and these parts be filled with the appro- 
priate inks, the drawing will have the appearance of winter until 
heated, when the scene will be entirely changed to that of spring, or 
sumniejj.i , A, tulip, or other blub, may be drawn as usual, and the 
leaves, and flowers finished with sympathetic inks ; an empty plate 
may be made to appear full of fruit and leaves ; a flower-pot, with 
a rose-tree without its leaves, will suddenly appear in full bloom 
and leaf; change of costume is as easy as scene, and, in fact, the 
subject is almost endless. 

The various colours are produced by employing the inks men- 
tioned below: — 

EosE Colour — 'By using a solution of oxide of cobalt in spirit 
of nitre. 

Green— Solutions of the nitrate and chloride of cobalt and chlor- 
ide of copper. 

Yellow — Muriate of copper. 

Blue — Muriate of cobalt, (if pure.) 

Having said this much, we may leave the reader to experiment 
upon the subject. A little practice will soon render the artist pro- 
ficient in the production of the interesting illusive effects alluded to. 



236 MINE OP WEALTH; AND, 

Rules For Success in Business. 

Select the kind op business suits your natural inclina- 
tions AND TEMPERAMENT. — Some men are naturally mechanics ; 
others have a strong aversion to anything like machinery, and so on; 
one man has a natural taste for one occupation in life, and another 
for another. 

I never could succeed as a merchant. We have tried it, unsuccess- 
fully, several times. We never could be content with a fixed salary, 
for ours is a purely speculative disposition, while others are just the 
reverse ; and therefore all should be careful to select those occupa- 
tions that suit them best. 

Let your pledged word ever be sacred. — Never promise 
to do a thing without performing it with the most rigid prompt- 
ness. Nothing is more valuable to a man in business than the name 
of always doing as he agrees, and that to the moment. A strict 
adherence to this rule gives a man the command of half the spare 
funds within the range of his acquaintance, and encircles him with 
a host of friends, who may be depended upon in any emergency. 

What ever you do, do with all your might. — Work at it 
if necessary, early and late, in season and out of season, not leaving 
a stone unturned, and never deferring for a single hour that which 
can just as well be done now. The old proverb is full of truth and 
meaning — " Whatever is worth doing at all, is worth doing well." 
Many a man acquires a fortune by doing his business thoroughly, 
while his neighbor remains poor for life, because he only half does 
his business. Ambition, energy, industry, and perseverance, are 
indispensable requisites for success in business. 

Sobriety. Use no description of intoxicating drinks. — As 
no man can succeed in business unless he has a brain to enable him 
to lay his «)lans, and reason to guide him in their execution, so, no 
matter how bountifully a man may be blessed with intelligence 
if his brain is muddled, and his judgment warped by intoxicating 



- GUIDE FOR THE MILLION. 239 

drinks, it is impossible for him to carry on business successfully. 
How many good opportunities have passed never to return, while a 
man was sipping a "social glass" with a friend! How many a 
bargain has been made under the influence of the wine-cup which 
temporarily makes its victim so rtchl How many important chances 
have been put of until to-morrow, and thence for ever, because 
indulgence has thrown the system into a state of lassitude, neutral- 
izing the energy so essential to success in business. The use of in- 
toxicating drinks as a beverage is as much an infatuation as is the 
smoking of opium by the Chinese, and the former is quite as des- 
tructive to the success of the business man as the latter. 

Let hope predominate, but be not to visionary.— Many per- 
sons are always kept poor because they are too visionary. Every 
project looks to them like certain success, and therefore they keep 
changing from one business to another, always in hot water, and 
always "under the harrow." The plan of " counting the chickens 
before they are hatched," is an error of ancient date, but it does not 
seem to improve by age. 

Do NOT SCATTER YOUR POWERS. — Engage in one kind of business 
only, and stick to it faithfully until you succeed, or until you con- 
clude to abandon it. A constant hammering on one nail will gen- 
erally drive it home at last, so that it can be clinched. When a 
man's undivided attention is centered on one object, his mind will 
continually be suggesting improvements of value, which would 
escape him if his mind were occupied by a dozen different thoughts 
at once. Many a fortune has slipped through men's fingers by en- 
gaging in too many occupations at once. 

Engage proper employees. — Never employ a man of bad habits 
when one whose habits are good can be found to fill his situation. 
I have generally been extremely fortunate in having faithful, 
and competent persons to fill the responsible situations in my busi- 
ness ; and a man can scar'jely be too grateful for such a blessing 



240 MINE OF WEALTH. . .^ ^ ^ 

When you iind a man unlit to fill his situation, either from incapa- 
city peculiarity of character or disposition, dispense with his ser- 
vices, and do not drag out a miserable existence in the vain attempt 
to change his nature. " You cannot make a silk purse," &c. He 
has been created for some other sphere ; let him find and fill it. 

Do NOT Procrastinate. — There is no moment like the present ; 
not only so, but, moreover, there is no other moment at all ; that is, 
no instant force and energy but in the present. The man who will 
not execute his resolutions when they are fresh upon him can have 
no hope from them afterwards; they will be dissipated, lost, and 
perish in the hurry of the world, or sunk in the slough of indolence^ 

Industry. — There is no art or science that is too diffcult for in- 
dastry to attain to; it is the gift of tongues, and makes a man an- 
derstood and valued in all countries, and by all nations; it, is the 
philosopher's stone that turns all metals and even stones into gold? ' 
and suffers not want to break into its dwelling; it is the northwest 
passage that brings the merchant's ship as soon to him as he can 
desire — in a word, it conquers all enemies, and makes fortune her- 
self pay contributions. 

Fix your Mind. — Lay it down as a sound maxim : — Nothing can 
be accomplished without a fixed purpose — a concentration of mind 
and energy. Whatever you attempt to do, whether it be the writing 
of an essay, or whittling of a stick ,let it be done as you can do it. It 
was this habit that made Franklin and Newton, and hundreds whose 
labors have been of incalculable service to mankind. Fix your 
mind closely and intently on what you undertake; in no other way 
can you have a reasonable hope of success. An energy that dies in 
a day is good for nothing; an hour's fixed attention will never 
avail. The inventions that bless mankind Avere not the result of a 
few moments' thought and investigation. If you then, have a de- 
sire to bless your species, or to get to yourself a glorious name, fix 
your mind upon something, and let it remain fixed. 



'^^^^^"^XJ-yi^i^i 



vmm 



AW,v 












rVji 'Ji-^l V Liiit^-ii 



h f 4 :' I 



vwv-yv> f«'v^ 



iim 






^ '''J^ y^'' LW i' W, LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



m 



hm 



i^^,. 









e^ v^ - v»^ 



i^md^''. :^^:v 






^' ■ ;feiii«^* 



=^^V^^a, 



^pi^^^-'.'^i 



.Jy'y:^.'"'-,' 









--'^x,:p:J 



H?V» 



'^^^y^*'^ ;;^'^^, 



^:f-;,^:^^ 






i''.'.- ■; 




y y ^,vi y ^ 


^^ 


te'^'^ 


«# 



