Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



HAND-BOOK 



OF 



PRACTICAL COOKERY, 



FOB 



LADIES AOT) PROFESSIONAL COOKS. 



CX>NTAIira!iO 



THE WHOLE SCIENCE AND ART OF PREPARING 

HUMAN FOOD. 



BY 

PIERRE BLOT, 

FBOFEfSSOB OF GA8TB0K0XT, ANB FOT7in>EB OF THB NSW TOBK 

COOKINa ACADEMT. 



"If ye be wiUlng and obedient, ye shall eat the good of the land." 



NEW YORK: . 
D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, 

448 Sb 446 BBOADWAY. 

1867. 



I 



KB-ijs'vf 






Emtbbxd, according io Act of Congress, in tho year 1867, by 

D. APPLETON & CO^ 

In the Clerk^s Office of the District Oonrt of the United States for the 

Soatheni District of New York. 



\ 



i 



PEEFACE. 



I. 

I 



Food is the most important of our wants; we 
cannot exist without it. The man who does not use 
his brain to select and prepare his food, is not above 
the brutes that take it in its raw state. It is to the 
physique what education is to the mind, coarse or re- 
fined. Good and well-prepared food beautifies the 
physique the same as a good and well-directed educa- 
tion beautifies the mind. A cook-book is like a book 
on chemistry, it cannot be used to any advantage if 
theory is not blended with practice. It must also be 
written according to the natural products and climate 
of the country in which it is to •be used, and with a 
perfect knowledge of the properties of the different 
articles of food and condiments. 

Like many other books, it is not the size that 
makes it practical; we could have made this one 
twice as large as it is, without having added a single 
receipt to it, by only having given separate ones 
for pieces of meat, birds, fishes, etc., that are of the 



4: PEEFACE. 

same kind and prepared alike. All cook-books writ- 
ten by mere compilers, besides giving the same re- 
ceipt several times, recommend the most absurd 
mixtures as being the best and of the " latest French 
style." 

Although cookery has made more progress within 
two or three years, in this country as well as in 
Euro^ej than it had since 1830, and although all 
our receipts are complete, practical, wholesome, and 
in accordance with progress, still they are simple. 
Our aim has been to enable every housekeeper and 
professional cook, no matter how inexperienced they 
may be, to prepare any kind of food in the best and 
most wholesome way, with economy, celerity, aild 
taste ; and also to serve a dinner in as orderly a man- 
ner as any steward can do. 

We did not intend to make a book, such as that 
of Cabemb, which cannot be used at all except by 
cooks of very wealthy families, and with Which one 
cannot make a dinner costing less than twenty dol- 
lars a head. Such a^book is to housekeepers or plain 
cooks what a Latin dictionary is to a person of merely 
elementary education. 

If we give so many different ways of preparing 
the same article of food, it is .not with a view to com- 
plicate cookery, but people's taste is in food as in 
dress, differing not only in the selection of colors, but 
also in shape ; therefore, by our variety of dishes and 
our different styles of decorating them ; by the ejffee 



PBEFACE. " 5 

tbat they can be prepared in the cheapest as well as 
in the 'most costly way, we think we have met all 
wants and all tastes. The wealthy, as well as those 
in limited circumstances, can use our receipts with 
the same advantage. 

Our division of cookery and the* system of arran- 
ging hiUaoffarej contained in these pages, solve that 
great and perplexing question, especially for ladies, 
how to arrange a bill of fare for every season, to suit 
any number of guests, at a greater or less expense, as 
they may desire. Every one knows that money alone 
cannot make good dishes; however good the raw 
materials may be, they require proper preparations 
before being palatable and wholesome. 

TO HOUSEKEEPERS AND C60KS. 

A cook-book cannot be used like a dictionary ; a 
receipt is like a rule of grammar : to comprehend it 
thoroughly, it is indispensable to understand others. 
The author, therefore, earnestly recommends to his 
readers to begin by perusing carefully the directions, 
etc., at the beginning of the book, and also the expla- 
nations given on and heading the different articles of 
food, before attempting the preparation of a dish for 
the first time. They will thus soon be able to pre- 
pare any dish by merely /eading the receipt. If ali^ 
the explanations necessary were given at every re- 
ceipt, this work would have filled more than ten 
volumes like the present,. 



6 . * PREFACE. 

"We are aWare that the study of cookery is as 
uninviting and dry as the study of grammar at first ; 
so is the study of every science and even art ; but it 
becomes comparatively easy and interesting after a 
while. Mere flourish in a receipt would have the 
same effect as in^ rule of grammar. 

TO COOKS. 

We think the following friendly recommendations 
will not be out of place here. They are in the inter- 
est of both the housekeeper and the cook : 

Make use of every thing good. 

Waste nothing, however little it may be. 

Have no prejudices. 

Be careful, clean, and punctual. 

Always bear in mind that routine is the greatest 
enemy of progress, and that you have agreed to faith- 
ftdly perform your daily duties for a certain consider- 
ation. 

PIERRE BLOT. 

New York, Avgusty ISBY. 



OOZSTTENTS. 







FAGS 


COOKING, . 


. . « . 


9 


DIKECTIONS, E3TLANATI0NS, 


ETC., 


. 16 


DlVEi^ RECEIPTg, 


• • • 


44 


POTAGES OR SOUPS, 


• • 


. 01 


SAUCES, . 


• • • 


91 


FARCES AND GARNITURES, 


• • 


. 113 


ijlSH, . . . 


• • 1 


126 


BEEF, ... • • 


• • 


. 162 


HUTTON, . 


• • • 


184 


VEAL, . . 


• • 


. 202 


PORK, 


• • 1 


226 


POULTRY, 


• 

• • 


. 287 


GAME, . . 


• • 


276 


VEGETABLES, . 


• • • 


. 806 


EGGS, MACAItoNI, AND RICE, 


• • • 


866 


SWEET DISHES, 


• • 


. 876 


PASTRY, . 


• 
• • • 


409 


BILLS OF FARE, 


• # 


. 469 


INDEX, 


• • 


466 



COOKING. 



The science and art of cookmg may* be divided into 
ten principal parts ; the rest is all fancy. These ten parts 
are : Baking, Boiling, Broiling, Feting, Mixing, Roast- 
ing, Saut^ing, Seasoning, Simmering, and Stewing. 

Tasting is an adjunct to alL 

Baking. — In ba^ng, see that the famace or oven be 
properly heated; some dishes require more heat than 
others. . Look at the object in process of baking from 
time to time, and. especially at the beginning, turn it 
round if necessary, in case it be heated more on one side 
than on the other, to prevent burning. 

In baking meat and fish, besides keeping the bottom 
of the pan covered with broth or water, place a piece of 
' buttered paper over the object in the pan ; it not only 
prevents it from burning, but acts as a self-basting opera- 
tion, «and keeps the top moist and juicy. 

If the top of cakes bake faster than the rest, place a 
piece of paper on it. 

In most of our receipts, we give the degree of heat 
necessary to bake the different objects ; it will, no doubly 
be found valuable information. 

JBoiling, — This is the most abused branch in cooking ; 
we know that many good-meaning housewives and even 

1* 



10 COOKING. 

professional cooks boil things that ought to be prepared 
otherwise, with a view to economy ; but a great many 
do it through laziness. Boiling requires as much care 
as any other branch, but they do not think so, and there- 
fore indulge in it. 

Another abuse is to boil fast instead of slowly. Set a 
small ocean of water on a brisk fire and boil something in 
it as fast as you can, you make much steam but do not 
cook, faster ; the degree of heat being the same as if you 
were boiling slowly. 

If the object you boil, and especially boil fast, con- 
tains any flavor, you etaporate it, and cannot bring it 
back. 

Many things are spoiled or partly destroyed by boil- 
ing, such as meat, coffee, etc. 

• Water that has been boiled is inferior for cooking pur- 
poses, its gases and alkali being evaporated. 

Broiling. — ^Whatever you broil, grease the bars of the 
gridiron first. . , 

Broiling and roasting is the same thing ; the object in 
process of cooking by either must be exposed to the heat 
on one side, and the other side to the air. 

Bear in mind that no one can b^oil or roast in an oven, 
whatever be its construction, its process of heating, or its 
kind of heat. An object cooked in an oven is baked. 

It is better to broil before than over the fire. In Jjroil- 
ing before the fire, all the juice can be saved 

In broiling by gas, there is a great advantage. The 
meat is placed under the heat, and as the heat draws the 
juice of the meat, the consequence is, that the juice being 
attracted upward, it is retained in the meat. 

A gas broiler is a square, flat drum, perforated on one . 
side and placed over a frame. 



» COOKING. • 11 

Broiling on live coals or on cinders withont^a gridiron 
is certainly not better than with one, as believed by many ; 
on the contrary, besides not being very clean, it bums or 
chars part of the meat. 

That belief comes from .the fact, that when they par- 
took of meat prepared that way, it was with a sauce that 
generally accompanies hunters, fishermen, etc., — hunger — 
the most savory of all savory sauces. 

Frying, — ^That part of cooMng is not as difficult as it is 
generally believed, and properly fried objects are good and 
do not taste greasy. 

To fry requires care, and nothing fried will taste 
greasy' if it has been dropped in fat properly heated and 
in etough of it to immerse the object. 
• When an object tastes greasy, it is not because it has 
been fried in grease, but because there was not enough of 
it, or because it was not properly heated ; for, if heated 
enough it closes the pores of the object and carbonizes 
the exterior, so that it cannot absorb any. 

Directions for Frying, — Prepare what you intend to 
fry according to th6 directions given in the different 
receipts. 

Have fat, lard, or oil in a pan, enough to immerse 
the object or objects intended to be fried. 

When the fat is hot enough (see below), place the 
object in a kind of wire basket made for that purpose, 
which drop in the fat and take oflf when the object is 
fried. It is handy, and there is no danger of breaking 
the object in taking it oflf. 

There are objects that require to be stirred or turned 
over while frying. 

Every time you fry any thing, take the fat from the 
dre, let it stand in a. cool place for about five minutes, 



12 * cpoKiNa. • 

• 

then turn' it gently into a stone jar or pot through a 
strainer; let cool and put away. In turning the fat, 
lard, or oil into the jar, pour so that the dregs will be 
kept in the pan. 

To ascertain with accuracy when the fat, lard, or oil is 
hot enough to lay the things in the pan, dip a fork in cold 
water, the prongs only, so as to retain but one or two 
drops of water, which drops you let faU in the fat,, and if 
it crackles, it is hot euough. 

Another way is, when jets of smoke come out of 
the fat. 

There are objects that require more heat than others, 
some that are more sightly when brown, and others when 
of a pale-yellow hue. 

If the object is desired brown, leave the pan on a 
l5risk fire while it is frying ; if otherwise, remove it to a 
slow or less brisk fire. 

Fat is not like water, which, no matter how fast you 
boil it, you cannot augment the degree of heat, while 
you can that of fat. If water, by boiling it fast, could be 
heated as much as fat, it would be used to fiy in its stead, 
being cheaper. 

Mixing, — ^In mixing, pay due attention to the quanti- 
ties we give in the recefpts ; but as everybody has not 
the same taste, it is very easy to augment or diminish the 
quantity of salt, pepper, sugar, butter, etc., so as to suit 
one's owntastet* 

When the quantity is, left to the judgment or taste of 
the cook, that is, when the expression about so mtich is 
made use of, it is not necessary then to have the exact 
quantity; a little more or a little less cannot Spoil ^t 
partly destroy the dish. 

Boasting, — ^When an object is placed on the spit ac- 






COOKJNQ. 13 

cordihg to directions, remember that it camiot be basted 
too often. 

The time necessary for roasting a piece of meat or any 
thing else,- depends as much upon the fire as upon the 
nature of the meat. Meat especially requires to be placed 
very near the fire at first, and then put back by degrees. 

There is nearly a& much difference between roasted 
and baked meat as ther^i is between broiled and fried 
meat. 

It is generally admitted here, that English roast-beef 
is so superior to American roast-beef that it cannot be 
compared to it. It is not in the quality of the meat that 
the difference lies, but in the process of cooking. 

Meat cannot be roasted in an oven, be it in an ordi- 
nary or in a patented one. 

That peculiar flavor in roasted meat is produced by 
the air coming constantly in contact with the heated meat 
while revolving on the spit. 

Cold' roasted meat, when desired to*be served warm, 
is enveloped in buttered paper and placed on the spit just 
long enough to warm it. 

Sautein^,-^— There, is no word, that we know, in the 
English language, corresponding to the French word mutS. 
It differs fi*om frying in this : that to fry any object requires 
fat enough to immerse that object ; while to sautS it, re- 
quires just enough to prevent it from scorching. 

Vegetables, omelets, etc., are sauted^ and not fried. 

Meat or fish cooked in a frying-pan with a little butter 
or fat, is saw^C6?,'and not fried ; but the term fried is most 
generally used, the other being only known to prac- 
titioners. 

To saute requires a brisk fire ; the quicker an object 
is cooked by sauteing the better. 



14: oooKma. 

Seasoning, — ^This is tlie most difficult part in tke sci- 
ence of cooMng. To season is not difficult, but to season 
properly is quite another thing. 

It is not only necessary to know well how to stew or 
roast a peace of meat or any thing else, but to know how 
to season it, to be able to judge what quantity and what 
kind of spices can be used to season such or such a dish, 
to what extent all the spices used agree together, and 
what taste and flavor th^y will give to the object with 
which they are cooked ; for, if not properly used, they 
may just as likely destroy the taste and itfavor of the ot^ect 
as improve it. 

Some dishes require high and much seasoning, others 
just the contrary. With a gopd fire and a good spit, it is 
not necessary to be a thorough cook to roast a piece weU, 
but the cook is indispensable to mix the gravy or sauce 
with the proper seasonings. 

Simmering, — Simmering difiers from boiling only in the 
amount of heat 'allowed under the boiler, kettle, or pan. 
To simmer, is to boil as gently and slowly as possible. 

Stewing, — To stew properly it is necessary- to have a 
moderate fire and as even as possible. A brisk fire would 
cause much steam to evaporate, which steaiat is the flavor 
of the object stewed. 

Tasting, — This is the most difficult, and at the same 
time the most delicate, part of seasoning ; it is by tasting 
that we ascertain if we have seasoned properly. 

In this only two of the senses are engaged, and one 
of those much more than the other. ^ 

A person may have good feeling, hearing, and sight, 
and for all that would not be fit for preparing the simplest 
dish ; the senses of smelling and tasting are the ones most 
required, and without which no one can cook properly. 




oooKma. 15 

For tbeso reasons we will take the liberty to recommend 
to housekeepers, when they have new cooks, to instract 
them on their taste, and always let them know when they 
have seasoned too much or too little. To the cooks we 
will say, do not season according to your own taste, if the 
persons for whom you cook do not like it 

If the housekeeper would give his or her candid and 
frank opinion of the dishes to the cook, and if the latter 
be not stubborn, the best results might be obtained and 
both would be benefited by it. That ought to be done 
every day while making the bill of fare. 

To taste a sauce, as well as to know if a thing is good 
to eat, we cannot trust either our eyes, fingers, or ears ; we 
then have recourse, first to our smelling, and then to our 
tasting : so do most animals. 

We always commence by smelling, and when that 
sense is satisfied as far as it is concerned, wo then apply 
our tasting qualities ; aud if that last one is, in its turn, 
satisfied also, we proceed, that is, we masticate, if mastica- 
tion is necessary, and then swallow. 



DIRECTIONS, EXPLANATIONS, ETC. 



ANISE. 
Anise comes from Egypt, and is used as a spice. 

APRICOT. 
This is a native of Armenia. It is served like plums 
and peaches ; in salad, compote, etc. 

« 

BACON. 
Never use smoked bacon or ham, except when espe- 
cially directed. The smoky taste would'.spoil the dish. 

BAIN-MARIE. 

A bain-marie is a large vessel of hot or boiling water, 
in which saucepans, kettles, moulds, etc., are placed to 
prepare or warm food. It is also used to teep any kind 
of food warm, when something is ready to serve, and the 
time has not come ; the utensil containing it is placed in hot 
water, and it not only keeps it warm, but there is almost no 
evaporation while iu it. It does not boil away either. 

There are things that are much more delicate when 
prepared or warmed in hot water. 

One utensil made for that purpose, and of brass, with 
compartments, is more handy, but a large saucepan may be 
used in its stead. 

When any thing is in the bain-marie, the water should 



DIBEOnONS, EXPIiAKAHONfl, ETO. 17 

not be allowed to boil fast enough either to upset the'pans 
or get into them. 

BAKE-PAKS. 
A bake-pan for baking meat, fish, or any other object 
that requires liquor of any kind, must have borders in 
order to hold that liquor ; but a baike*pan for cakes or any 
other object that does not require any liquor, or that does 
not turn liquid in baking, is better without borders — ^that 
is, a simple piece of sheet iron of a size to go easily in 
the oven. 

BAY-LEAF. 

This is known also under its French name laurier. 

It is used as a spice ; it is exceedingly cheap afld is 
excellent to flavor sauces, gravies, etc. 

It comes especially from Italy, where it is used to pack 
figs, oil, and different fri^jits. 

BEETS. 

The red beet is much used to decorate different 
dishes. 

It is boiled, then pickled, cut in fancy shapes, either 
with a knife or with paste-cutters, and tastefully placed on 
or around the object it is used to decorate. . 

It is served as a hors-d'oeuvre, picMed, and cut- in 
slices. 

To hoil, — Set it on a good fire in a pan, covered with 
cold water, and boil gently till done. 

The be^t must not be touched at all with any thing 
rough, for if the skin or root is cut or broken,^ the color 
goes away in boiling, it is not fit to decorate, and loses 
much of its quality. 

When you buy beets, see that they are not bruised, and 
that the root is not broken. * 



18 DIEECnONS, EXPLANATIONS, ETC. 

BRAISING. 

Braising, in cookery, means to cook any thing with 
lire under and upon the pan, kettle, or other utensiL 

A good oven is by far more easy, and answers perfect- 
ly the purpose. An oven not only warms the under and 
upper parts of the utensil, but all around it also. 

BUNCH OF SEASONINGS. 

It is composed of parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, and cloves, 
and sometimes a clove of garlic is added. Place the 
sprigs of parsley in the left hand, rather spread, lay the 
others on and in the middle of the parsley, and envelop 
thei]^ in it as well as possible, then tie the whole with 
twine. 

As all these seaso&ings are never served except when 
chopped, they are more easily taken out than if they were 
not tied together. • 

BUTTERED PAPER. 
Dip in lukewarm butter a piece of white paper of the 
size you want, and envelop the piece to broil or roast 
with it Tie the paper around with twine or coarse 
thread. 

OILED PAPER. 

The only difference between oiled and buttered paper 
is, that it is dipped in sweet or olive oil instead of butter. 

CATSUP. 
Beware of what is sold under the name of«catsups and 
pickles ; mkny cases of dyspepsia, debility, and consump- 
tion come from using such stuff. 

CAVIARE. 
It is i{iade with the roes, hard and soft, of the sterlet. 



DIEEOnONS, EXPLANATIONS, ETC. 19 

It is imported from Russia, and is served as a hori-d^cmvre, 
with slices of lemon and toast. 

CERVELAS, SAUCISSONS, ETC. 

* CervelaSy saucissons, as well as smoked sausages, are 
pork-butchers' preparations, cut slantwise in very thin 
slices, and served as hors-cToeuvre, with parsley in the 
middle of the dish. 

CHEESE. 

m 

Cheese is the first plate of dessert to be partaken of. 
^' A dinner without cheese is like a handsome lady with 
but one eye." — BnUat-Savarin. 

"Cheese takes away all the taste that might be left 
from preceding dishes, and by that means prepares the' 
palate for the appreciation of the good things, the delicate 
flavors of the dessert and wines." 

« 
COCHINEAL. 

Cochineal, or carmine. Buy the cochineal in pow- 
der, prepared for cooMng purposes, ink some (say the 
size of half a split pea) with a few drops of cold water and 
mix that again with what you wish to color. The quan- 
tity of cochineal is according to the quantity of mixture 
and also according to how deep the color is desired. 

CHERVIL. 

This comes from Italy, and is used in salad and' as a 
spice. 

COLAin)ER. 
Besides tlie ordinary colander, it is necessary to have 
a fine one. We mean, by a fine colander, one with holes 
half the size of the ordinary ones, that is,' just between 



20 DIBEOnOl^S, EXPLANATIONS, ETC. 

tlie colander and strainer. A colander should not have 
holes on the sides ; it is handier and more clean -with 
holes at the bottom only. 

•CURRY. 

We think that curry is very good and necessary «n 
the borders of the Ganges River, and for that very reason 
we think also that it ought to be eschewed on the borders 
of the Hudson, Delaware, Ohio, and thereabouts. 

We cannot describe curry better than by giving here 
the answer {verbatim et literatim) of a gentleman who 
has lived a few years in Java, to a question on the proper- 
ties and qualities of curry. He said that he thought it 
good and even necessary to use some there on account of 
the climate, but every time he had eaten it he thought he 
was swallowing boiling alcohol or live coals. 

DINING-ROOM. 
It must be well ventilated and lighted. The best de- 
gree of temperature is about 66 degrees Fahr. 

DISH. 
. A dish ought to be charming to the eye, flattering to 
the smell, and delicious to the taste. 

BRAININO. 

To drain, is to put in a colander any thing tiiat has 
been soaked, washed, or boiled, etc., in water or any other 
liquid, in order to dry it, or at least to let drop from it 
the water or other liquid that may be in it 

Salads of greens, as a general thing, are drained after 
being washed, before putting them in the salad-dish ; they 
must be drained as dry as posible,* but without pressing 
on them, as it would wilt the leaves, and give the salad an 
unsightly appearance. 



DIEEOnONS, EXPLAKATIONB, «T0. 21 

DUSTING. 

A pan, after being buttered or greased, is dusted with 
• flour, sugar, <5r even bread-crurhbs, to prevent the mixture 
that is put in it from sticking. Sugar, etc., may also be 
sprinkled over dishes with a dredger. 

DRINKING. 

When weary, or cold, or warm, or exhausted, we 
drink in preference to eating, because we feel the effect 
instantaneously; while after eating even the most sub- 
stantial food, we do not feel the effect for some time. 

When exhausted and when immediate relief is neces- 
sary, the best drinks are broth/ chocolate, milk, or water 
sweetened with sugar. It is more than a mistake to 
drink wines or liquors at such a time ; it is really commit- 
ting slow suicide. 

When only thirsty, without exhaustion, we ought to 
drink cold water with a teaspoon. When thirsty and 
heated, the first thing to do is to dip the hands in cold 
water deep enough just to cover the wrists ; then dip a 
towel in the water, lay it on the forehead, and then drink 
cold water with a teaspoon. 

A few drops of vinegar or lemon-juice may be added 
to the water. If exceedingly hot, keep your hands in 
cold water and the towel on your forehead at least one 
minute before drinking. 

HOT WEATHER. 

A remark or two on eating and drinking in hot weather 
are always in season. Green vegetables, properly cooked, 
are certainly healthful in warm weather ; but it is a mis- 
take to think that meat should be excluded from sum- 
mer diet. The hotter the weather, the more the system 
wastes, and therefore the more we must supply. 



S 



" 



22 DIEBOnONS, EXPLANATIONS, ETC. 

In order to keep tlie body in a healthful condition, 
meat ought to be eaten at least once a day in summer- 
time. It would be well toTary this programme by- taking 
one meal of fish on every other day. 

Fat should be disused as much as possible. A very 
little good butter with your fresh radishes at breakfast is 
as much fat as is necessary. 

COLD WEATHER. 
Fat meat is good in winter and is relished;* so are 
dry vegetables and saccharine substances. 

FOOD. 

Nature has provided man with a mind, in order that 
he should study what kind of food suits his constitution ; 
he who does not do it, is not above the lower animals. 

" Good things have been made by the Creator for good 
people, flowers have certainly not been made for brutes, 
either quadruped or biped.**^ — Jefferson. 

" It is from good things that, in a human point of view, 
we derive the strength necessary to our limbs, let us 
partake of the same and be thankful." — Rev, — Chadhand. 

Have your food selected and prepared according to 
constitution, occupation, climate, age, and sex. 

Waste in females is greater than in males. 

Animals, generally, are very careful in selecting their 
food. 

A temporary bloatedness may be obtained, especially 
with the young, by eating much farinaceous food, such as 
pancakes,. etc., but it does not last, and is sure to bring 
on disease or sickness, or both. 

Man is omnivorous, and must be fed accordingly. 

Extreme leanness comes from want of proper food, 
either in youth or old age. 



DIEECnONS, EXPLANATIONfl, ETU. 28 

It is not the amount that is eaten which nourishes, but 
the amount that is digested ; an excess of food is as bad 
as a lack of it 

Good and well-baked bread is nutritious and healthful, 
while unbaked bread is heavj and difficult of digestion. 

Take at least half an hour's rest after a hearty meal, for 
mind and stomach cannot work at the same time. 

Never eat when angry, or tired, or when heated ; but 
be as cool and as gay as possible, for food being exposed 
to a heat of about XOO degrees Fahr, in the stomach, would 
ferment instead of digesting. 

Tako a hearty but by no means heavy dinner. 

Eat slowly, at regular hours, and masticate well, but do 
not bolt your food, or eat any thing tliat does not taste good. 

Drink slowly, moderately, and always taste before 
swallowing. 

Vary your food as much as possible. 

Always liave at least one dish of vegetables for dinner, 
besides meat, and also ripe fruit. 

See that every thing you eat or drink is of a good 
quality, wholesome and properly prepared* 

ECONOMY. 

There is not a word so much misused in cooking as the 
word economy. 

Prejudice comes for a large share in the use of it. 

How many things are thrown away, or wasted by mere 
prejudice or ignorance I ' . • ' 

It is often jfirom economy that a woman washes meat, 
because some part of it does not look clean. Instead of 
washing it, do not buy it ; or, if bought, cut off a thin 
slice and throw it away: it is more economical than wash- 
ing the whole piece, which you partly destroy by the 
process. 



S 



24: DIREOTIOJrS, EXPLAISTATIONB, ETC. 

* 

It is* with a view to economy, that an old, bad custom 
prevails of boiling coffee. What an economy of sending 
the best part of the coffee (the aroma) to the attic, and 
the rest to the dining-room. A bad- drink can be made 
cheaper with many things than with coffee. 

Tea is also boiled with an eye to economy. 

EGG-BEATEB. 

We have tried five different kinds in Boston, before a 
large audience and 09 the demand of an inventor of one, 
but none could beat eggs as well as a common hand-beater. 
The whites of the eggs could not be raised with any of 
the others much more than half as much as with the com- 
mon one ; and besides, 'could not be beaten stiff. 

Many persons do not succeed in making cakes of 
different preparations in which whites of eggs beaten to 
a stiff froth are used, because the eggs are not properly 
beaten. 

Any tinsmith can make an egg-beater. It is generally 
made with tin-wire, but may be made with brass-wire. 

With the cut below, as a model, it can be easily made. 




. The handle a is of tin, into which the tin wires 5 are 
fastened and soldered. 

ERRORS IN COOKING. 

Ignorance produces abuse or error, or both. Blissful 
Ignorance may be a fine thing in some cases, but either iu 
preparing or partaking of food, it is certainly more than an 
abuse, it is a dangerous error. 



DISEOnONB, EXF^iANATIOKS, STO. 25 

« 

It is by ignorance or disease that man abuses wine or 
any other fiquor. 

It is by ignorance or prejudice that many eschew the 
best and most healthful of condiments, such as garlics, on* 
ions, etc. They dislike them on account of their pungent 
taste when raw, not knowing that when cooked it is all 
evaporated. Their pungent taste comes from the volatile oil 
they contain, and which evaporates in cooking ; it cannot 
be retained, but their sugar is retained, and gives such a 
good flavor to gravies and sauces. 

FENNEL. 

' This is said to be a native of the Canary Islands ; it has 
a very strong tgste, and is used as a spice, especially in blood 
pudding. The Romans used a great deal of it. 

FIG. 

The flg-tree comes from Mesopotamia. Figs are gen- 
erally served as hors-d'cRuvre^ or used in puddings, etc. 

FINES HERBEa 

Parsley and cives chopped fine, and used for omelets, 
or with cold meat, sauces, etc., are called thus. 

• FLOUR. 

In cooking, ne^f flour is not as good as old ; it does 
not thicken a§ well and as fast. 

FOIES GRAS. 

Fpks^ or pdtesde foies gras are made with geese-livers, 
fresh fat pork, truffles, ham, fines herhes, and spices. 

2 



26 . DIBEOTIONS, EXPLANATIONS, ETC. 

They are always served cold as a relevi or entree^ but 
most generally they are used for lunch or supper. 

FRUIT-CORER. 
There are many sizes in the set, to core from a pine- 
apple to a cherry. 




GALANTINE. 

The word galantine means a honed bird, or a boned 
shoulder <ff yeal. 

GLAZING. 

Glazing is generally done by means of a brush or with 
feathers. A beaten eggy or syrup, or jelly, or egg and su- 
gar, etc., are need to glaze cakes, etc. It is done by dip- 
ping the brush into the egg or jelly, and by spreading 'it^ 
on the c§lre or other object before baking or before serving, 
as directed in the different receipts. It is also done by 
sifting powdered sugar on cakes which are put. back in the 
oven for a short tirae-^that is, the time necessary to melt 
the sugar. 

INDIGESTION, 

A cup of tea and camomile, half of each, with a few 
drops of orange-flower water, and the whole well sweet- 
ened and taken warm, is very good after haviipg eaten 
something difficult to digest. 

ITALIAN PASTES. 
Macaroni, vermicelli, and the like dry pastes, are called 
Italian pastes, whatever the shape — ^round, oval, or star-like. 

ISINGLASS. 
It is sometimes used instead of gelatine to make jellies. 



masanosa, KxtLAsATionB, bic. 27 

JELLY-BAG. 
Make a conical bag of good white flamie], about 
twenty iiiclie% long, fifteen incbes broad at one end wheo 
spread on a flat earface, or abont thirty inches in circum- 
ference, the other end being the point Sew to it four 
pieces of white l^po at the laige end, and at equal dis- 
tances, BO that two sticks may be run into them. The 
sticks are placed on ch^rs or something elee, in order to 
have the point of the bag about one foot iiom the floor. 
It is then ready to pass the jellies through it. 



KITCHEN UTENSILS. ' 
Gastronomists use, in preference to^ny thiog else, crock- 
ery or earthen pans ; Of , for want of these, block-tin pans. 
Copper is, in the end, the cheapest of all; but American 
cooks do not like them because they require too much care 
* and mast be examined every day ; to prevent any accident, 
it is necessary to keep the inside properly lined. 

Many indispositions are caused by food prepared in 
copper not properly lined; even food allowed to cool in a 
«ffell-lined pau would be dangerous. 

Fans lined with porcelain are excellent, biit the trouble 
with them is, that they crack, and after that cannot be 



28 DntEonoNS, explakations, etc. 

cleaned ; something will always remain between the lining 
and the iron, and spoil every thing cooked in them. 

The tin-lined are preferable, on account*/ being easily 
cleaned by means of a sm^dl birch-broom, washing-soda, 
and boiling water. 

LAIT DE POULE. * 

Mix well in a tumbler a yolk of egg and a teaspoon- 
fill of sugar ; then add a few drops of orange-flower water 
{eau de fleur cPoranger) ; pour boiling water on the whole, 
little by little, stirring the while, and drink warm. 

The quantity of water is according to taste. 

A gill of water to a yolk of egg makes it thick enough. 

It makes an excellent drink, to be taken just before re- 
tiring, for persons with cough. ' 

LARD. 

Never buy lard ready made if you can help it, but 
take hog's fet, the part enveloping the fcdneys, or leaf 
lard, and chop it fine, put it in a cast-iron or crock- 
.ery kettle with a bay-leaf and a stalk of thyme to every 
two pounds of {&t ; set on a moderate fire, and as soon as 
it begins to melt, take the melted part out with a ladle, and 
put it in a stone jar or pot ; be careful not to take any 
pieces of fat not yet melted. Contmue that process till it 
is all melted. 

The diy or hard part that remains at the bottom of 
the kettle when done is no good. 

Lard made thus is as white as snow, and may be kept 
a long time. 

When there is water in lard, it flies all over th^ Are ; i 
that case, boil it a few minutes with a cover on the panv 
and then use. 



V 



DIBEOnONS, SXPLAKATIOKS, ETO. 29 

^AT FOE FRYING, 

Take beef suet, the part around the kidneys, or any 
kind of fat, raw or cooked ; remove as much as possible 
fibres, nenres, thin skin, or bones ; chop it fine, put it in a 
cast-iron or crockery kettle ; add to it the fat you may 
have skimmed firom the top of broth, sauces or, gravies- 
Set the pan on a moderate fire ; boil gently for about 
fifteen minutes, skim it well during the process ; take from 
the fire, let it stand about five minutes,* and then strain. 
I Put it in a stone jar or pot, and keep it in a dry and 

\ cool place. Cover the jar when perfectly cold. 

It is as good as lard and more handy ; it docs not fly 
over the pan like lard 

A careful cook seldom buys fat ; generally there is 
enough coming from skimming of broth, sauces, and gravies, 
for every purpose. 

TO CLARIFY FAT. 

Set the fat on a moderate fire in a pan, aud as soon as it 
commences to boil, place a slice of bread dried in the 
oven in it, boil gently for about half an hour; take fi'om 
the fire, let it settle for a few minutes ; remove the bread, 
turn gently into a jar or pot, leaving the dregs in the pan. 

Chicken, Turkey, and Ooose Fat, — ^The fat of the above 
birds is never use'd to fry, but to saute instead of butter. 
To make omelets it is excellent ; an omelet is whiter and 
more sightly made with chicken-fat than when made with 
butter. It is clarified as directed above. 

GAME-FAT. 
Game-fat can be used instead of other fat and also ' 
instead of butter, to saute, or what is generally called 
partly firy, game ; it may also be used, instead of butter 
to bake game 



30 DIBECnONS, EXPLANATIONS, ETC. 

It must be clarified longer tlian other fat, but in the 
same way. 

The boiling of fat with water, as indicated in some 
cook-books, is only a fancy and extra work, it has no effect 
whatever on the fat. It is the same by keeping it for hours 
in a hainrmarie ; it does not change it in the least. 

BATTER FOR FRYING. 

^or frying Vegetables, — ^Put three tablespoonfiils of 
flour in a bowl with two yolks of eggs, and cold water enough 
to make a kind of thin paste, then add salt and half a 
teaspoonftd of sweet oil ; mix well Beat the two whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth and mix them with the rest 
Pat the batter away in a cold place for at least two hours, 
and use. 

It must not be put away longer than for half a day. 

Another. — ^Proceed as above in every particular, except 
that you use milk instead of water. 

For frying Fiah, — ^Make it exactly as the above, except 
that you do not use any oil. 

For frying Fritters^- — ^Mix well together in a bowl three 
tablespoonfuls of flour with two yolks of eggs and cold 
water enough to make a thin paste ; add-a pinch of sugar, 
'rum or brandy, or any other liquor, according to taste, 
from one to three or four tablespoonfuls, mix well again, 
and put away for at least two or three hours, but not 
longer than twelve hours. 

Eggs and Crumbs for frying, — ^The eggs are beaten as 
for omelets, with a little salt The objects to be fried are 
dipped in the eggs first, then rolled in bread-crumbs 
and fried. 

Another, — ^When rolled in bread-crumbs as above; 
dip again in the eggs, roll again in bread-crumbs and fry. 



f 




DIBEOnONS, EXPLANATIONS, ETC. 31 

Another, — Dip the object in melted butter, then in 
eggs, and'roll in bread-crumbs; fty. 

LARDING. 

All pork-butchers sell salt pork for larding. Gut it in 
slices and then by cutting the slices across it makes square 
strips or fillets. 

The strips must be of a proper size to be easily inserted 
into the larding-needle, and are about two inches and a 
half long. 

When the needle is run half way through the meat, 
insert the salt pork into it, pull the needle off and leave 
the salt pork inside of the meat, both ends of it sticking 
out 

K it were running through, that is, if the salt pork 
were pulled off with the needle, most likely the strips are 
too small ; then pull slowly, and when the salt pork is far 
enough into the meat, press on it with the finger and pull 
the needle, it will then stay-in its proper place. It is 
bjBtter to cut a few strips first and try if they are of a 
proper size. 

If, in pulling off the needle, the salt pork does not 
enter the meat, the strips ^are too large. 

If the strips are of a proper size and break while jpull- 
ing the needle off, then the pork is not good. 

J^ricandeau, sweetbreads, birds, etc., are larded in the 
same way. • • 

For beef h la mode^ it is described in the receipt 

LARDING-NEEDLE. 

The best are made of brass. Those that are sold for 
steel are generally of iron, and break easilj^. 

Those for beef a la mode are of steel, and must be flat 
near the point, in order to cut the meat. 



32 DEBEOTIONS, EXPLANATIONS, ETC. 

LEAVEN. 

Knead four ounces of flour with baker's yeast, enough 
to make a rather thick dough ; give it the shape of a 
rather flat apple ; with a sharp knife make two cuts on the 
top and across, and through about one-third of the paste ; 
put the paste in a pan of lukewarm water. In a few 
minutes it will float ; take it off and use then after it has 
floated about two minutes. 

MEAT. 

The time it takes to cook meat depends as much on 
the quality of the meat as on the fire. Some persons like 
meat more done than others ; in many cases you must con- 
sult your o^wrn taste or that of your guests. 

Beef, lamb, mutton, and game, may be eaten rather 
underdone, according to taste ; domestic fowls must be 
properly cooked ; but pork and veal must always be over- 
done, or else it is very unwholesome, if not dangerous. 

The following table maj be used as a guide : 

Bear and Boffiilo, aflye-poimd piece,'... 6to7 hn. 

Wild Boar and Woodcbnck, Do. do. .. 8to4hr8. 

Beef, I Do. do. ' . . 1 hr. SO m. 

Do .*. a ten pound piece, ... 2 hrs. 80 m. 

Capon, , a^laige one,. . .'. 1 hour. 

Chicken, J a middling-sized one, 46 min. 

Dnck, a large one, 46 min. 

Do a small one, 80 min. 

Goose, alaigeone, 3 hoars. 

Do a small one, 1 hr. SO m. 

Grouse^Heathcock, Snipe, and WMcock, a fot one, 80 min. 

Do do. do. do a lean one, 20 min. 

Guinea Fowl, ,. a middling-sized one, 1 hoar. 

Hare, an old one, 1 hr. SOm. 

Do a yoang one, aboat 1 hr. 

Lamb and Kid, a large quarter, Ihoar. 

Do. do asmal] one, 46m]n. 

Hatton, ,, a foar-poand ^iece, ... 1 hoar. 

Do. ! .•...asix " " .. Ihr.aOm. 

Partridge, Pheasant, and Prairie-Hen,. . . .a middlings sized one, 80 to 45 m. 
Pigeon,...: one, SOmin. 



1 



DIBECmONS, EXPLANATIONS, BTO. 33 

• # 

Forkf a two-pound piece,... Ihr. 15 m. 

Do afonr ** " .. 3hoim. 

Quail, one, 20min. 

Snddng-Pig, '. a laxge one, 9 hrs. 80 m. 

Bo. do aemallone, 2 hoon. 

BabUt, aimiddling-Blfeedone,80to45min. 

Bobin, Blackbird, Fig-pecker, High- 
holder, Lapwing, Headow Lark, 
Ployer, Beed-bird, Thruah, Yellow- 
bird, and other small birda, 16 to SO min. 

Turkey, a laige one, 1 hr. 80 m. 

Do 2 a small one, iiK>atlhoar. 

Veal, atwo-poondpiece,.. Ihr. 15m. 

Venison, afonr ^* " . . abojat 1 hour. 

The foUowing table may be nsed as a guide to Inxoy^ 
hcrw long meat may be kept, in a cool» dry, and dark 

place ; and protected from fliea or other insects : 

* 

In Sunufitr'. 

Bear and BnflUo, 8 to 4 days. 

Wild Boar and Woodchnck, 8 to 4 " 

Beef and Pork, 2 to 4 '* 

Capon, 2 to 8 " 

Chicken, old one, 8to4 " 

Do. yonng one, 1 to 8 *^ 

Deer, Partridge, Pheasant, Prairie-Hen, Qoail, 

Ooinea-Fowl, and Turkey, 2to8 ^* 

Dnck and Goose, 8to4 ** . 

Hare and Babbit, 2 to 8 " 

Gronse, Heathcock, Snipe, and Woodcock, . . 8 to 4 ^* 

Lamb, Kid, Sacking Pig, and Yeal, 2to8 '' 

Mutton, 2 to 8 " 

Pigeons, Blackbirds, Fig-peckers, High- 
holders, Lapwings, >(eadow Larks, 
Plovers, Beed-birds, Bobins; Thrushes, 

Yellow-birds, and other small birds, ... .2 to 8 " 6 to 10 " 

The time must be reduced one-half in summer, in 
stormy or damp weather, and one-third in winter, in 
thawing or rainy weather. 

JF'ish, — ^When cleaned and prepared as directed, place it 
in a crockery stewpan, cover it with cold water, add a lit- 
tle salt, two or three sprigs of thyme, and one or two bay- 
leaves. It will keep thus for some time. 

2* 



In Whiter. 


10 to 15 days. 


8 to 10 


n 


6 to 10 


u 


4to 8 


14 


4 to 10 


«t 


2to 6 


U 


etoio 


(t 


• 4to 8 


i( 


4to 8 


It 


8tol5 


It 


8to 6 


tt 


6 to 10 


tt 



34 DIEECnOHB, EXPLAHATIONS, ETC. 

MODLDS. 

Mould for Meat Pks. — A mould for meat pies- may be 

ronnd or oval ; it must be ia two pieces, fastened together 

by a kind of hinge, Wben the pie ia baked, the wire 

pin holding the monld is pulled, and the moald removed. 



. Mould for Pies, Jellies, etc. — ^This monld may be 
nsed for any thing that requires a monld ; it may also be 

round, ova], or of anv nt.Iipr Rlinfi«. 



nsed tor any thing that requires a 
round, ova], or of any other shape, 



OLIVES. 

Frosh and ripe they are served as dessert with other 
fruit. iPreserred, they are served as a hors-d'mit're, and ■ 
used to flavor and decorate different dishes. 

Olives as well as sardines are healthful and con^dered 
one of the best hora-tPauvre. 

OSMA20MB. 

Osmazonie is found in beef, mutton, full-grown domes- 
tic fowls, venisoD, and game ; in the latter, when the bird 
or animal is adult. 

In meat soup, the osmazome is the soloble part of the 
meat that dissolyes in boiling, and makes nttrltiona 
broth. 



DIRECTIONS, EXPLANATIONS, ETC. 35 * 

In broiled or roasted pieces, it is that part which 
makes a Mnd of brown crust on the surface 6f the meat, 
and also the brownish part of the gravy. 

Chicken, lamb, sucking-pig, veal, etc., do not contain 
any osmazome. 

PAESLEY, CHERVIL, THYME, CELERY, SAGE, ETC.,— FOR 

WINTER USE. 

Hang in the shade, under a shed, or in a garret, and 
in a clean and dry place, some small bunches of parsley, 
chervil, celery, etc., the roots upward ; leave them thus 
tin perfectly dry, then place them in your spice-box foi * 
winter use. 

TTie best time for drying them is at the end of Octo- 
ber or the beginning of November; dig them up in fine 
and dry weather, so as to have them clean without wash- 
ing- 
Soak in cold water half an hour before using. 

WHITE PEPPER. 
This is black pepper decorticated. 
Put peppercorns in a bowl, cover with cold water, and 
leave thus till the skin is tender ; then drain. Take the 
sMn off, let it dry, grind it ; place with your other spices, 
and »se ^ere directed. It takes many days for the skin 
'bo become tender. 

« 

QUALITY OF MEAT, FISH, VEGETABLES, FRUIT, ETC. 

The quality of meat depends entirely on the quality* 
of food with which the animal has been fed.* 

For fish, the taste w quality is according to the kind 
of water in which they have lived ; fish from a muddy 
pond smell of mud, wlule fish from a clear brook are de 
licious. • 



36 DIBEOTIONS, EXPLAIfATIONS, ETC. 

TEe same difference exists in vegetables and fruit; 
their quality is according to the quality or nature of the 
ground in which they have been grown. 

PASTRY-BAG. 

A bag for pastry is made with thick, strong linen ; of 
a conical shape, about one foot long, eight inches broad 
at one end when spread on a flat surface, and which 
makes about sixteen inches in circumference, and only one 
inch and a quarter at the other end, and in which latter 
end a tiu tube is placed, so that the smaller end of the 
tin tube will come out of the smaller end of the bag. 
Putting then some mixture into the bag and by pressing 
from the upper end downward, the mixture wiU come omt 
of the tin tube. 

RAW MATERIALS. 

If American cookery is inferior to any other general- 
ly, it is not on account of a want of the first two requi- 
sites — ^raw materials and money to buy them ; so there is 
no excuse for it, both are given to the cooks. 

Here, where markets rival the best markets of Europe 
and even surpass them in abundance, it is really a pity to, 
live as many do live. 

SCALLOPED KNIFE. 

This knife is used to cut beets, carrots, turnip-rooted 

celery, potatoes, radishes, and turnips ; m slices, round, ob- 

•long, or of any other shape ; either to decorate dishes, or 

to be served- alone or with something else, or to be 

fried. • 



UmlKivaHHi^ 



The annexed cuts •will give an idea of what can be done 



QIBEcnONS, BXFLANATIOirB, £TC. 87 

with it It is underatood that tlie regetaUes are peeled 



SHALLOTS. 
Shallota come from Syria. Shallot is stronger than 
garlic and onion ; a real Tartar sauce cannot be made with- 
out shallot. The small, green onion ia a good substitute 



The cntB below are skewers. The comnion ones are 
used to fitsten pieces of meat td^tber ; to roast or bake 
small birds, liver in brochetU, etc., etc. 



' \ 




Those to decorate are only used with different f owors 

' vegetables, and stuck inside of different pieces of meat 



38 DIBEOnONS, EXPLANATIONS, ETC. 

as a decoratioD. They are removed just before carv- . 
ing. 

The use of them is explained in the different receipts. 
They may be different from those seen in the cuts. 

SPICES. 

The cooks of this country generally have a queer idea 
of what they call French cookery and French spices. 

Some honestly believe that to make a French dish a 
great deal of pepper and other strong seasonings must be 
put in. 

Many other persons, who have not been in £urope, 
really believe also, that French cookery is what is called 
highly-seasoned. There never was a greater mistake. 

If French cooks use several kinds of spices, and may-be 
more than American cooks, they are not the same ; or if 
'some are the same, such as pepper, they use them in much 
smaUer proportions. 

They generally use tnyrae, parsley, bay-leaf, chervil, 
tarragon, etc., which are aromatic ; but never use (in this 
climate) ginger, curry, cayenne pepper, pimento, catsups, 
variegated colored pickles made with pyroligneous acids, 
etc., and which are very exciting and irritating. 

Some of our readers may naturally ask : How is it that 
French cookery is believed by many to be the contrary of 
what it really is ? 

Because every eating-house, of no matter what size, 
pretends to be a first-rate one or a iashionable one^— and 
to be first-rate or fashionable mtist, as a matter of course, 
have French cooks, or at least cook French dishes. 

You enter the place, ask for a French dish ; or, ask if 
you can have such a dish, ^ la Frangaise ? 

You are politely and emphatically answered in the af- 



BISECTIONS, EXPLANATIONS, ETO. 39 

firmative; and very often the poHte waiter says that a 
French cook presides in the Mtchen. 

Resnlt ! — the cook, be he from the Green Isle or of 
African descent,, receiving the order to prepare a French 
dish, pats a handful of pepper in the already too much pep- 
pered, old-fashioned prepared dish, and sends it to the con- 
fident customer as a genuine French dish. 

Said customer never asks a secottd time for a French 
dish, and pronounces French cookery to be — abominable 1 

STIRRING. 

Never use any spoon bat a wooden one to stir any thing 
on the fire or in a warm state. 

STRAINING. 

To strain, is to pass a sauce or any thing else through a 
sieve, a strainer, or a piece of cloth, in order to have it 
freed ftom particles of every kind. 

Broth is strained to make soup, so as to remove the 
small pieces of bones that may be in it, etc 

SUGAR. 

Sugar plays a very important part in cooking. It is 
added to cereals, vegetables, and fruit, many of which would 
almost be unpalatable without it, and which are rendered 
not only palatable but wholesome by its action. • 

It is the sugar of tlie carrot and that of the onion, or 
of the garlic, that gives such a peculiar and delicious flavor 
to gravies and sauces, to beef h la modcy fricandeau, etc. 

Pulverized. — When pulverized or powdered sugar can 
be had pure, it saves the trouble to do it ; but often there 
are foreign matters in it and therefore it is better to make 
it; you know then what you have. 



40 DISECnOXS, £XPLANATIONB, ETC. 

Break loaf sugar m|o small lumps, pound it and sift it. 
With a fine sieve, you can make it as fine as you please. 

It was not used in Europe until about the middle of 
the seventeenth century. 

For the cooking of sugar, see Pbesebybs. 

TAKRAGON. 

The French name of tarragon is estragon. It is excel- 
lent in vinegar and in many fish sauces. It is aromatic, 
sudorific, and stomachic, and grows very well in this coun- 
try. It grows at least twice as large here as in Europe. 

, Tm TUBES. 

• 

These tubes are put in the pastry-bag, at the smaller 
end of it, to make meringues j ladies' fingers, etc. ; they 
are of tin, and can be made by any tinsmitL 

• They have the shape of a trapezoid or finistum. Two 
are enough for any purpose. 

No. 1. One inch and a half long; one inch and three- 
eighths in diameter at one end, and nine-sixteenths of an 
inch at the other end. 

No. S. One inch and a half long ; one inch and a half 
in diameter at one end, and six-eighths of an inch at the 
other. 

^ TRUFFLES. 

Tnifies are found in Europe and Africa, where they 
were first discovered. 

The truffle is neither an animal nor a vegetable, although 
it has been classed among the fungi, which has root, and 
the truffle has neither root nor stem. 

The truffle is used for stuffling and flavoring only 
otherwise it is not of much value. On account of their 



DIBEOnONS, EXPLAJTATIONS, BTO. 41 

scarcity, and the difScnlty in finding them, they are rather 
costly. 

We think truffles may be compared to lace^-both are 
dear, and neither has an intrinsic value. 

VANILLA 

Is a native of America, extensively ased for seasoning 
creams, pastry, etc., to which it gives a delicious flavor. 

Although a native of America, all the extracts of va- 
nilla, as well as others, were formerly imported; but within 
a ^ few years Americans have found out that they are 
able to distil also, and "Burnett's Extract of Vanilla" is 
better known to-day all over the country than any other. 

VEGETABLE SPOONa 

Vegetable spoons are used to cut potatoes, carrots, and 
turnips; there are different shapes, round, oval, carrot- 
shape, plain, and scalloped. We give here only two, being 
sufficient to explain then* use. 

The fifst (a) is of an oval shape, and makes the cut c; 
the second (&) is round, and makes the cut d. 




When the vegetable is peeled, place the spoon on it, 
the convex side up ; holding the vegetable in your left hand , 
press on the spoon with your left thumb, and in order to 
cause it to cut the vegetable while turning it with the right 
hand, first half way or rather when the half of it is inside of 
the vegetable, stop, turti it the other way, causing it to cut 
the vegetable also, then raise it up withoirt turning at all 



42 DIEECnONS, EXPLANATIONS, ETC. 

and you have in the spoon a piece of vegetable of the 
shape of the spoon, and as seen in the cuts. 

WATER. 

Rain-water is for cooking purposes, as for other pur- 
poses, the best, but is seldom used, especially* in large 
cities, where it is difficult to procure it. Another difficulty 
is, when procured it^soon gets fouL 

The next best is river-water, or water from lakes. 

By boiling, water evaporates its gases and alkali, and 
IS inferior afterward for cooking purposes, especially for 
boiling vegetables ; therefore, we earnestly recommend to 
use the Vater at the first boiling. • 

When foul water has to be used for want of other, if 
no filter, charcoal, sand, or paper can be had to filter 
it, it will improve by boiling it and then exposing it to 
the air for some time. 

WINES. 

Native wines, when pure, are just as good as any other 
for cooking purposes. 

It is wrong and a great mistake to underrate native 
wines; they have a little more acerbity than foreign wines, 
but are not inferior. It cannot be otherwise, being grown 
in a virgin soil, or nearly so. The richer the soil or the 
younger the vineyard, the more acid the wine. 

■ Cold nights during the ripening of the fruit make the 
wine more acid, not ripening so perfectly. 

Wine is a healthy drink, and ihany invalids would 
recover much quicker by a judicious use of it. 

Different wines are used in cooking, and we give the 
names of the best ones in the difierent receipts. 

A little viaegar may be used as a substitute for wine, 



DIEECnONS, EXPLANATIONS, ETC. 43 

but it is very inferior, and in many dishes it cannot be 
used at all m 

A few dollars spent during the year in wine for cooking 
purposes, maisies much better and more wholesome dishes. 

White wine contains little tannin ; it retains nitrogen- 
ous matters, and is free from essential oils; henCe the 
superior fiavdr and quality of brandy made with white 
wines. 

. It is more aperient and less nutritive than red wine. 

Essential oils pass in red wine while it is fermenting. 

Wine and sugar with certain fruits are excellent, and 
are known to neutralize the crudity of the fruit, such as 
straw-berries, pears, peaches, currants, etc 

:moxto. 

The motto of tlfe New York Cooking Academy is — 

Since we must eat to live^ let us prepare our food in 
suck a manner, that our physical^ intellectual, and moral 
capacities may he extended as far as is designed hy our 

CREATOR. 



DIVEES EECEIPTS. • 



ALMONDS. 

Two kinds arc used in cooking, the sw^t and the 
bitter. 

They are shelled first, then by pouring boiling water 
on them and leaving them in it for two or three minutes, 
they are easily skinned. 

They are sometimes used as soon §s skinned, and some- 
times dried after being skinned and just before using. 

When wanted dried, place them in a pan in a slow 
oven with the door open, and turn them occasionally. 

LEMONADE OR ORANGEADR 
Put two ounces of Ipaf sugar in a quart of water, also 
the rind of an orange or one of lemon. Half an hour 
after strain the whole, and press into it the juice of the 
orange, and a few drops of lemon-juice. If found too 
strong, add water and sugar. It is a very good drink in 
summer, or for evening parties. A little currant jelly 
may be added to make a variety. 

LEMONADE WITH BARLEY. 

To the above lemonade or orangeade you add, instead 
of water and sugar, some barley-water and sugar; it is 
very good and very refreshing. 

Barley-water is made by soaking in lukewarm water a 



DIVEBS BEOEnrTB. 45 

pint of barley, drain it two or three minutes after ; put the 
barley in a crockery, pan, cover it with cold water (about 
three quarts), set it on the fire, and boil till the barley is 
perfectly cooked ; skim off the scum during the cooking, 
drain, let cool, and use the water. 

BAKLEY SUGAR FOR CHILDREN. 

Soak a quart pf barley in lukewarm water for two or 
three minutes, and drain. Put the barley in a crockery 
stewpan, with four or five quarts of water, and set it on a 
good fire, boil till the barley is ovqjdone, and then take 
from the fire, mash it as well as possible and strain, throw- 
ing away what there is in the strainer, and if the remain- 
der does not make a kind of jelly when cool, the barley 
has not been boiled enough. 

Mix that jdly with sugar and fry it ; it is better than 
any other candy, barley being refreshing, and the princi- 
pal substance of it 

BAVAIIOISE WITH CHOCOLATE. 

Put in a tin pan a pint of milk, with one ounce of 
chocolate, and two of sugar; set it ove^ the ^e, but do. 
not aUow it to boil ; stir well with a wooden spoon during 
the process, and when the whole is well mixed, serve warm 
in cups. 

It is an excellent and wholesome drink in the evening. 

The same toith Coffee or Tea. — ^Proceed as above in 
every particular, except that you put in the pan a small 
cup of cofiee or tea instead of chocolate, and a little more 
sugar. 

BICHOF. 

Put in a crockery tureen two bottles of white wine, 
with an orange and a lemon, both cut in slices ; cover, 
and place it in a warm place for about ten hours ; then 



48 riVEEB BEOBIPTB. 

Its use VM not known in Europe before 1 850. Ndthei 
waB the nae of sugar, tobacco, and brandy. 

Good coffee cannot be made but by leaching. 

The easiest utensil is what is called a filter, or coffee- 
pot, or big^D, according to locality, with a top to diffuse 
the water. 



I 



The coffee-pot called "the French balance" makes 
the best-fiarored coffee, but it is an ezpensire one. 



There are several good filters, bnt the great majority 
of the people find them too complicated for daily use. 

The bottom of the filter should be of uWered brass- 
gauze instead of perforated tin, as it is generally. 

Gauze-boles being much smallei than those of perfo- 
rated tin, the coffee can be ground much finer, and there- 



DIYEBS BEOEIFTS. 49 

fore, all the strength and aroma can be had ; .while if 
ground coarse, it is utterly impossible. 

Good cofPee cannot be made in a utensil often but 
wrongly called a cofee-poty which is nothing but a pot, 
and something like a tea-pot 

With such a utensil, the grounds must be boiled ; and 
as no Hquor can be boiled without allowing the steam to 
escape (the steam made by boiling coffee being ita aroma), 
therefore the best part of the coffee is evaporated before 
it is served. 

Never grind your coffee until ready to make it. 

No matter how air-tight you keep it, the aroma evapo- 
rates or is absorbed. 

Coffee can be ground and made as soon as cool ; but it 
is better to let it stand for about twenty-four hours after 
being roasted. 

If kept as air-tight as possible in a tin-box, it will 
keep very well for about a week. 

Never buy ground coffee except when you cannot 
help it. 

By taking a pinch of ground coffee and rolling it be- 
tween wetted fingers, it will remain in grains, if pure ; and 
will form in a ball if foreign matters are mixed with it. 

TO BOAST. 

In roasting, good coffee swells about thirty-three per 
cent., and loses about sixteen per cent in weight 

Roast once a week or oftener. 

Put coffee in the apparatus (cylinder, or drum, or 
roaster), the quantity to be according to the size of the 
roaster, or according to how much is needed. Have a 
rather slow fire at first ; when the coffee has swollen, aug- 
ment the fire, turning, shaking, tossing the roaster, some- 

3 -\ 



50 DIVERS EEOEIPTS. 

times fast, sometimes slowly, and take from the fire a little 
before it is roasted enough ; the roasting will be finished 
before the coffee gets cold and before taMng it firom the 
roaster, which you continue turning and shaking as if it 
were yet on the fire. 

A charcoal fire is the handiest, and more easily regu- 
lated. 

It is well roasted when it evaporates a ple$tsing odor 
and when of a brownish color. 

Then take it from the roaster, spread it on a matting or 
on a piece of cloth, and put it in a tin-box as soon as cold. 

It is exceedingly difiScnlt, if not utterly impossible, to 
roast coffee properly by machinery, and for two reasons : 
in the first place, there is too much of it in the cylinder to 
roast evenly, some berries are burned, others not roasted 
enough ; the other is, that being turned by machinery, the 
cylinder is turned regularly and is neither shaken nor 
tossed ; and even if there were not too much coffee in it, 
some berries would be much more roasted than others. 

TO MAKE. 

Set a kettle of cold water on the fire. Place the ground 
coffee in the filter, and as soon as the water begins to boil, 
pour just enough of it over the coffee to wet it. Put the 
kettle back on the fire, and again, at the first boiling, pour 
it over the coffee rather slowly, and till you have poured 
enough water to famish the quantity of coffee required. 

If the water does not pass through fast enough, just 
stop pouring for a few seconds, tha;t is, long enough to 
put the kettle back on the fire and start the boiling 
again. As soon as the water has passed through, the 
coffee is made. The quantity of coffee must be accord- 
ing to the strength you wish it, and the quantity wanted, 
or according to ago and constitution. 



y 



DIVERS EE0EIPT8. 51 

Four teaspoonfdls make a quart of very good coflfce 
for breakfast. It would be rather strong for cbildren, but 
can be diluted to a proper state with milk. 

No matter what quantity of coffee is put in the filter, 
the liquor must be clear; the more is used, the blacker the 
substance is, but it must never be muddy.. If *muddy at 
all, be sure you have not used good coffee. 

One pound of good coffee to a quart of water, should 
make black but clear coffee. 

OAFlS AU LAIT. . 
This IS coffee and milk for breakfast. The milk is se^ 
on the fire in a tin saucepan, and taken off when i^ rises ; 
then mixed with the coffee,' either in the cup or any kind 
of vessel The. proportions are pint for pint. 

CAT^ NOIR. 

Cafe noir is the n^rae given to the coffee taken after 
dinner. It is generally made rather strong. Gentlemen 
sometimes put liquor in it — a glkss of brandy, or rum, 
or kirschwasser ; and ladies, a little cold milk. 

Taken fifteen or twenty minutes after dinner, it helps 
digestion. It excites the faculties of the mind, and gives 
what physiologists call " agreeable sensations." 

Coffee is nutritious, and to a certain extent prevents 
waste of the system. 

CHOCOLATE. 

The quantity of chocolate for a certain quantity of milk 
is according to taste. Two ounces of chocolate make a 
good cup of it, and rather thick. 

Break the chocolate in pieces, put it in a tin saucepan 
with a tablespoonful of water to an ounce of chocolate, 
and set it on a rather slow fire, gtir now and then till 
thoroughly melted. 



52 DIVEES EECETFTS. 

While the chocolate is melting, set the quantity of milk 
desired in another tin saucepan on the fire, and as soon as 
it rises and when the chocolate is melted, as directed 
above, turn the milk into the chocolate, Uttle bj little, 
beating well at the same time with an egg-beater. E«ep 
beating itnd boiling after being mixed, for three or four 
minutes; take off and serve. 

If both chocolate and milk are good, it will be frothy ; 
and no better or more nutritions drink can be hod. 

CHOCA. 
Ghoca is nothing more nor less than one cnp of coffee 
and milk mixed with a cop of chocolate, and for breakiast. 

COCOA. 
Put in a tea or coffee cup one or two tablespoonfuls 
of ground cocoa, pour boiling water or boiling milk on it, 
Uttle by little, stirring with a spoon lie while ; sweeten it to 
taste. A few drops of essence of vanilla may. be added, 
according to taste. 

ESSENCE OF SPINA0H, OB GREEN ESSENCE. 
Put two handfuls of very green and fresh ^inach in 
a mortar and pound It well Then put it in a sancepati, 
set on a rather slow fire, and when on the point of boiling 
take it off, pass it through a sieve and use. It may be 
kept for some time with a little eugar, 

ESSENCE OF BEEF. 

The essence of beef of commerce is well known. 

To make essence of beef used in cooking and called 
glace in French, set three or four quarts of broth on a 
slow fire, in a saucepan and reduce it to jelly. Keep it 
simmering all the time; it may take twenty hours to re- 



DIVEBS BECEIPTS. 63 

duce. When properly reduced, it is of a very dark-brown 
color and has a very pleasant odor. 

When cold, it must be rather hard. 

When essence of beef tastes like glue and has an un- 
pleasant odor, it is not made properly, or with good beef. 

K properly made, it will keep any length of time. 

It is used to thicken sauces, to decorate boned birds, 
etc. ; when in a hurry, it may be used to make soup, but, like 
every thing preserved, is of course inferior to fresh broth. 

ICING. 

Put about three tablespoonfuls of pulverized sugar in 
a bowl with the white of a small egg; and then mix and 
work well for at least five minutes with a piece of wood. 
When done it is perfectly white and rather thick. 

Make a kind of funnel with thick,, white paper ; put 
the mixture in it, and by squeezing it out, you make deco- 
rations according to fancy, on cakes, charlotte russe, etc. 
You make the decorations of the size you please, by 
cutting the smaller end of the paper-funnel of the size 
you wish. 

The mixture may also be spread on cakes with a knife, 
according to what kind of decoration* is desired. 

A charlotte russe may be decorated in the same way, 
"with the same cream as that used to fill it. 

MEAT JELLIES. 

Piit in a saucepan two ounces of gelatine with three 
eggs and shells, a tablespoonful of salt, the rind of half a 
lemon, a liquor-glass of rum* or brandy, or a wine-glass of 
sheiTy, port, or madeira wine ; mix well the whole. Add 
one quart of broth, twelve pepper-corns ; beat the whole 
weU with an egg-beater and set on a good fire ; stir gently 
till it comes to a boil ; then move it on a rather slow fire ; 



54: ^ DIVEBS EEOEIPTS. 

boil slowly for about eight minutes and turn into the jelly- 
bag. Have two bowls at hand to be used alternately; 
have one under the 'T)ag before turning the jelly into k ; and 
when it has passed through the bag once, turn it into the 
bag again, putting the other bowl under; repeat this three 
or four times, and it will be perfectly cl6ar. Just before 
turning into the bag the first time, a few drops of burnt 
sugar are added to give the jelly an amber color. Use the 
jelly immediately if wantQ.d in liquid form, as to fill a 
meat-pie, etc,, or put it on ice to congeal. 

Boned-turkey Jelly. — As soon as the water in. which 
you have boiled a boned turkey is cold, skim off the fat 
and strain it Then proceed exactly as for meat jelly, ex- 
cept that, you take one quart of the above instead of one 
quart of beef broth. 

Boned-chicken Jelly, — ^Prepare the water in which the 
boned chicken has been cooked, the same as above ; take a 
quart of it and proceed as for meat jelly for the rest. 

For jelly to decorate any boned bird, the water in 
which it has been cooked may be used, as described above* 

Calves' 'feet Jelly, — Scald well four calves' feet, and split 
each in two lengthwise. Put them in a saucepan with 
about three pints of water, two onions, two cloves, two 
cloves of garlic, six sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, a stalk 
of celery if handy, salt, and half a dozen pepper-corns. 
Set on the fire, boil gently till well cooked. Serve the feet 
with a poulette or vinaigrette. 

Strain the liquor ; put in it two eggs with their shells, 
salt, rum or wine, as in meat jelly ; beat the whole well 
with an egg-beater; set on a good fire, and finish like 
meat jelly. 

Calfs-head Jelly, — ^Proceed as for the above in every 
particular, except that you use four eggs, having about 






DIYEBS BECEIFTS. • 55 

twice as much liquor, therefore making twice as much 
jelly. A little gelatine may be added, if not found firm 
enough. 

MEAT GRAVY. 

When you are short of gravy, cut a little piece of veal, 
say half a pound of the breast or neck piece, or trimmings 
of veal-cutlets ; set on the fire with about an ounce of but- 
ter, and half of a rather small carrot cut in slices ; stir, and 
when the meat is turning rather brown, add two or three 
onions in slices also ; stir again till the onions are nearly 
fried ; when covered with broth or water, add salt, a dozen 
whole peppers, a bay-leaf, and two stalks of thyme ; boil 
gently for two or three hours, and strain. 

If it is boiling away, add water to fill up. 

Trimmings of mutton, lamb, beef, chicken, or turkey, 
may be added to the veal. 

In case of hurry, it may be done quickly and by 
boiling rather &st, but it is not as good, and there is less 
of it with th& same quantity of meat. 

For a grand dinner, the gravy may be made one or 
*two and even three days in advance; then simmer it for 
five or six hours. . 

MELONS. 

Musk-melons are alwavs served as a hcrs-d^osuvre. but 
must be eaten immediately after soup, or the first thing of 
all if no soup is served. 

It is a great mistake to serve melons as a dessert. 

Water-melons, though eaten abundantly, are consid- 
ered very unwholesome by -the great majority of doctors, 
chemists, and physiologists. 

Musk-melons are served in slices with sugar, or with 
salt and pepper, acco];^ing to taste. 



MM 



56 DIVEBS EEOEIPTS. 

MEUNIlfcRE. 

Mix well together in a cup one teaspoonfnl of flour 
with a tablespoonftil of cold water. 

It is used to thicken sauces and different dishes. 

MINT. 

Put four sprigs of mint into a quart of braudy, cork 
well, or cover air-tight if in a pot, and leave thus forty- 
eight hours; then strain through a cloth. Put half a 
pound of loaf sugar in a stewpan with a pint of water, set 
it on the fire, and, at the first boiling, pour it into the 
quart of brandy; cover with a cloth, let it cool, and 
again strain the whole through a fine cloth. Bottle and 
cork carefully, and use when wanted. 

'A small liquor-glass of it is very good for stomach- 
ache ; it is also useful after having eaten any thing 
diflScult of digestion. 

PANADE, 

Break in pieces the soft part of a small stale loaf of , 
bread ; put it in a tin saucepan, cover it with cold water, 
and leave thus about an hour; then mash it well, set it on 
the fire, add salt, butter, and sugar, to taste ; simmer about 
an hour, then add again two yolks of eggs beaten with 
two tablespoonfuls of cream or milk ; mix the whole well 
together, and serve. 

It makes. an excellent food for infants. 

PAP. 

Put an ounce of butter in a tin saucepan, set it on the 
fire, and when melted, turn into it two tablespoonftils of 
flour, thoroughly mixed with half a pint of milk ; stir with 



4 



DIVEBS BEGEIPTB. 57 



a wooden spoon, boil gently for aboat twelve minutes, 
stirring the while ; take off, tnrn into a bowl, add salt and 
sugar to taste, and use. 

If wanted richer, an egg may be mixed with the flour 
and milk, or a yol!k of egg may be added as soon as 
taken from the fire. 

• RAISINS. 
When the stems of raisins or of currants are removed, 
put them in a bowl, dust them well with flour, move them 
round a little, then turn them into a sieve and shake them 
well. This process will remove the sand as well as 
washing them, and will not take away the sweetness. 

SANDWICHEa 
These are too well known to require any direction. 

SAUSAGE-MEAT. 

Butchers generally, with an eye to economy, make 
sausage-meat of bad or tainted pork. ^ 

We recommend our readers, as far. as possible, never 
to buy sausage-meat ready made, but to make it them- 
selves, or have it made according to their directions. 

A chopping-machine costs very little, and saves a 
great deal of work, besides chopping much better than 
can be done by hand. 

The proportions are : one pound of lean pork and one 
pound of lean veal, chopped very fine, well mixed, and 
»both very fresh. Season with salt, pepper, nutmeg and 
clove grated, and with cinnamon, if liked. 

A yolk of egg may be added to a pound of meat. 

It may also be made with one pound of veal and 
half a pound or less of pork, or with veal only or pork 
only, according to taste. 

3* 



58 DIVEES RECEIPTS. . 

SOUSE. 

Put three ounces of butter in a saucepan, and Bet it on 
the fire; when melted, add two carrots and two onions 
sliced, stir now and then till they begin to turn brown ; 
then add about three pints of warm 'water, half a pint 
of vinegar, one clove of garlic, four sprigs of parsley, one 
of thyme, a clove, a bay-leaf, si;^ peppSl'-coms, a little 
grated nutmeg, and salt. Simtner about an hour, strain, 
and it is ready for use. 

Another, — Put two quarts of vinegar and about ten 
quarts of water in a stone or crockery vessel, with four 
cloves of garlic, a handful of parsley, six cloves, four stalks 
of thyme, four bay-leaves, half a nutmeg grated, three or 
four carrots, and three or four onions sliced, a little salt, 
and two dozen pepper-corns. Stir and mix the whole well, 
and it is ready for use. * 

Pieces of mutton, beef, pork, venison, and bear-meat, 
may be soaked in one of the above preparations from four 
to six days before cooking thenf. A piece of tough meat 
will be more tender and juicy after being soaked. 

More or less "may be made, according to the size of the 
piece of meat. 

TEA. 

There are many ways of making tea ; we might say 
that every one makes it in his own way; but, after 
many experiments and much information, we have found 
the following to be the best : 

Warm the teapot either by pouring boiling water in * 
it and emptying it, or by placing it on a comer of the 
range. 

Then put good tea in it (the quantity to be accord- 
ing to the strength and also, to the quantity you want), 
and pour boiling water on the leaves, just enough to wet 



DIVEBS BECEIFTS. 59 

them ;* leave thus about one minute, then pour on all the 
water you want. 

Let it steep no longer than about six raiuutes, and not 
less than four minutes, before drawing it. 

If allowed to steep longer than six minutes, all the 
astringency of the tea is extracted, and it acts and has a 
bad effect on the nervous system, besides losing most of 
its aroma. 

Chemists and physiologists generally recommend black 
tea, as not affecting the nervous system as much as green 
tea. 

Tea being naturally very astringent, should never be 
served at breakfast. 

Taken after dinner, instead of cafi nair, it has the* 
same effect, and brandy may be mixed with it as in coffee. 

Tea is excellent in damp climates and marshy coun- 
tries, but it must be taken after a substantial meal. 

Drinking warm tea while eating causes the food to 
pass through the system without nourishing it, or supply- 
ing its waste. 

TOAST. 

Cut several slices of bread of even size, and spread 
some anchovy-butter on them; cut anchovies in small 
strips, lengthwise, lay them on the bread also, and then 
spread over some hard-boiled egg chopped fine, and on it 
some parsley also chopped fine, finish with capers here and 
there. 

Place the toast or slices of bread on a dish, tastefully 
arranged all around, a few sprigs of parsley in the middle, 
and you have a fine hora-iTosuvre. 

Sardines, Dutch herrings, or red herrings may be used 
the same as anchovies. 



60 DIVEES BBCEIPTS. 

WELSH RAREBIT. , • * 

This dish is not generally understood. It is thonglit 
by many to be Welsh rabbit, that is, a rabbit prepared 
Welsh fashion. 

It is not a rabbit, but Welsh cheese (a certain kind 
only, and prepared for that purpose), melted to a certain 
degree, and then spread on toast of Welsh bread. 

Grate some Gloucester or Gruyere cheese and pepper it 
with Cayenne pepper. Fry some slices of bread with a 
little butter, but on one side only, until perfectly yellow, 
then spread a thick coat of grated cheese on the fried 
side of the bread, place the slices in a baking-pan, put 
them in a pretty warm oven, take off when it begins to 
melt, and serve warm. 

Then you have as good a Welsh rarebit as cmi be 
made here. The receipt was given to ua by an English 
lady. 



vJt 






I 



POTAGES OR SOUPS. 



PoTAGE is the modem word for soup, and is used in 
bills of fare everywhere. 

Three kinds of liqnor are nsed to make potages : 
broth, milk, and water. 

Besides the liqnor, meat, fish, and . vegetables are 
nsed. 

The richest potages are made yritliconsommi and some 
other componnds ; such as bread, Italian pastes, vegeta- 
bles, etc. 

Consommi means rich broth ; literally, it means con- 
sumed, perfect, that is, properly reduced and partly con- 
sumed, as it is the case in making it. ConsommS is 
broth reduced to a certain point, according to want or 
taste. 

Broth, — ^Broth is to good cooking ' what wheat is to 
bread. Dishes (with some exceptions) prepared without 
broth are, to those prepared with it, what rye or com 
bread is to wheat bread. Broth, and especially consomme^ 
are to old age what milk is to the infant. Broth is called 
bouillon in France, and stock in England. The word pot- 
avrfeu means the meat, vegetables, seasonings, spices, and 
the " pot " or soup-kettle itself, L c, every thing made use 
of in making broth. The popular meaning of the term 
in France is, the soup and the beef and vegetables served 



62 POTAGES OB SOUPS. 

as releves ; and, witli the working-classes, the only thing 
(with bread, wine, and fruit) composing the family dinner. 
The French army is fed on this pot-au-feu three hundred 
and sixty days in the year. 

It is a great mistake to believe that bones or veal 
make good broth ; by' boiling or simmering bones or 
veal, you obtain a gelatinous liquid, but not a rich broth 
with a pleasant flavor. When properly made, broth is 
clear. If milky, it has been made with bones, veal, or 
very inferior beef. 

Broth for Potages, — ^Take three pounds of good, lean, 
fresh beef, from any part except the shin. There must 
not be more than two ounces of bone to a pound of meat, 
and the less bone the better. Place the meat in a soup- 
kettle or iron saucepan lined with tin, with three quarts .of 
cold water and salt, and set it on a good fire. After, 
about thirty minutes, the scum or albumen of the meat 
will gather on the surface, and the water will commence 
boiling. Now place the kettle on a more moderate fire, 
add one gill of cold water, and begin to skim off the 
scum, which will take only a few minutes. Then add 
one middle-sized carrot, half as much turnip, one middle- 
sized leek, a stalk of celery, one of parsley, a bay-leaf, 
one onion with two cloves stuck in it, and two cloves of 
garlic. Keep the kettle between simmering and boiling 
heat for about five hours. Dish the meat with carrot, 
turnip, and leek around it, and serve it as a rekve. Strain 
the broth, and it is ready for use. 

If the broth is required to be richer, use more beef 
and less water, but follow the same process ; if weaker, 
use more water and less beef, but still follow the same 
process. 

Broth for fauces and Gravies, — ^Place in a soup-kettle 






1»0TAGE8 OB SOUPS. 68 

or saucepan fresh bones of beef, mutton, lamb, veal, or 
poultry — of either, or of all; also, bones of the same 
meats from roasted pieces; also trimmings of the same, 
if very fresh, with one quart of cold water to every pound 
of bones or meat ; skim it like the preceding, add the 
same vegetables and seasonings, and simmer for at least 
six hours. Then skim off very carefully all the fat on the 
surface, pass the remainder jthrough a strainer or a sieve, 
and it is ready for use. This broth is certainly very in- 
ferior to the preceding one, but it is excellent for sauces 
and gravies, and is very cheaply njiade. It may be used 
for potages also ; but, as we have said above, it is very 
gelatinous, and cannot be compared with the highly nutri- 
tious beef broth. 

Broth that is not to be used immediately must be 
cooled quickly after being straiqed, as the quicker it is 
cooled the longer it keeps. As soon as cold, put it in a 
stone jar or crockery vessel, and place it in a cool, dry, 
and dark place. It will keep three or four days in winter, 
but only one day in summer. If the weather is stormy, 
it will not keep even for twelve hours ; it turns sour ycry 
quickly. 

I do not put parsnips or thyme in broth, the taste of 
these two vegetables being too strong. They really neu- 
tralize the fine aroma of broth. Even in this nineteenth 
century there are some pretty good coQks who put thyme 
and parsnip in broth, but they do it by routine. Routine 
is in every thing the greatest enemy of progress. Ancient 
cookery used to put in the pot (old name for soup-kettle) 
a burnt onion to give an amber color .to the broth. This 
has exactly the same effect as thyme and parsnip, giving 
it a bad* taste, and neutralizing the flavor given to the 
broth by the osmazome of the meat. When broth of an 



n 



64 POTAGES OE SOUPSi 

amber color is desired, add to it a few drops of bamt 
sugar, the receipt for making which will be found else- 
where. • 

CoTisommS, — ^There are two ways of making oonsomr- 
me: one is to make broth as above^ with ^ the exception 
that five pounds of lean beef, instead of three, are used 
with three quarts of water,- and simmered from seven to 
eight hoars, instead of five, the vegetables and seasonings 
being the same ; or by boiling broth gently till properly 
reduced. 

The other way is to.roast, until they are only one-third 
done, one, two, or three fowls, not under two years old ; 
then place them in a soup-kettle with three pounds of lean 
beef; wet with three quarts of cold water; skim off as 
above directed ; add the same vegetables and seasonings as 
for broth for potages. After having simmered the whole 
for three hours, the fowl or fowls must be taken out of the 
kettle, and the rest is to be simmered for about three 
hours longer. The meat, vegetables, and seasonings are 
then taken from the kettle or saucepan; the liquor is 
strained, and that liquor is the best consomme that can 
be made ; or by boiling the same,* gently, in three quarts 
of good broth, you make consommS, also. 

The reason for directing to use one, two, or three fowls 
is, that the more fowls used, the better and richer the 
broth. The fowfe after having been thus used may be 
prepared in salad, and make a very excellent dish. * 

One pound of beef is enough to make broth for a 
potage for three or four persons. 

Always use fresh meat ; meat with a venison taste or 
tainted would spoil if not entirely destroy the broth. 

. To clarify Broth. — If not as clear as wantecl^ beat the 
white of an egg with a gill of cold broth, and turn into the 



POTAGES OB SOUPS. 65 

broth ; boil gently about ten minutes, and strain through a 
cloth or toweL . • 

Any kind of potage made with broth may be made 
with consomme. It may also be made with water, adding 
butter. With consomme it is richer, and with water 
much inferior, than with broth." 

When a rump-piece is used to make broth, it is better 
to bone it first, and take it from the soup-kettle after three 
or four hours ; it is served as a releve, or prepared as cold 
beef. The broth is finished as directed; the bones 
and vegetables being kept on the fire longer than the 
meat 

Chicken and turkey broth are often i;alled potage de 
sante (potage of health). 

Chicken, — Roast or bake till turning yellow, a chicken 
over two years old. Put it in a soup-kettle with three 
pints of water, and set it on a rather slow fire ; skim off the 
scum, add a middling-sized onion, a leek, a few stalks of 
chervil if handy, a middling-sized head of lettuce, and 
salt ; simmer about three hours. Take out the chicken and 
vegetables, skim off the fat, strain, and use. This broth is 
excellent for a weak stomach, and is easy of digestion. 
The chicken is served in salad. 

Turkey, — ^Procure a rather old turkey and roast or 
bake it till about one-third done ; put it in a soup-kettle 
with about a pint of water to a pound of meat, and set it 
on a rather slow fire. As soon as the scum comes on the 
surface, skim it off carefiilly ; then add two onions, two 
leeks, two or three heads of lettuce, a small handful of 
chervil if handy, and salt Simmer about five hours. 

Use the broth as chicken-broth above, and serve the 
turkey in salad. 

J^ish (also .called a la Lucullus), — Slice three mid- 



66 P0TAGE8 OR SOUPS. 

dling-sized onions and fry them with one ounce of butter 
till turning yellow ; add three ©r four pounds of fish (bass, 
pike, trout, salmon, and the like), any fish having a firm 
and compact flesh, of one or several kinds ; add also two 
carrots, two onions, and one leek, all sliced ; four stalks of 
parsley, one of thyme, one' clove of garlic, a bay-leaf, one 
clove, six pepper-corns, salt; cover the whole with cold 
water, set on a good but not brisk fire, boil gently for 
about two hours. If the water is boiling away, add 
some more ; then strain, and use. 

This broth may be used for bisqi^ and fish sauces, 
instead of beef-broth. 

It may be ijaade rich ; for instance, instead of three 
pounds of fish, use six, seven, eight pounds, or more, and 
seasonings in proportion. 

Louis XV. was on a visit to the monastery of Saint- 
Denis one day during Lent ; after having walked all over 
the grounds and gardens, he was oflfered a cup of broth by 
the superior. 

Being a little fatigued, he took the cup and drank the 
whole at one draught 

In going back* to Versailles, one of his suite, who did 
not nke the monk-superior, adroitly alluded to the cup 
of broth, and managed to persuade the king that the 
monk had done it on purpose ; that is, had made the 
king partake of meat-broth, when it was forbidden by 
the Church. 

The next day the monk-superior was sent for and 
brought before the king. On hearing the object of the 
summons, he asked the king if the broth»had indisposed 
him. Being answered in the negative, he begged to bo 
allowed to prepare the same broth before the king him- 
self, which he did, and from that time till his death the 



J 



POTAGES OB SOXJPS. 67 

king used to send several hundred pounds of fish during 
Lent to the monks of Saint-Denis. 

Frog, — Skin and put the hind-legs of two dozen of 
frogs in cold water ibr an hour ; drain and put them in a 
saucepan, and set it on a slow fire ; stir now and then till 
they are turning yellow, then take them ofi* and chop the 
flesh rather fine ; put back in the pan with a carrot sliced, 
a stalk of celery and one leek, both chopped, a little salt, 
and cover the whole with water. Simmer for about two 
houfs; raash the whole through a colander, add butter 
which you stir -and mix in, and it is ready for use. 

This broth, taken warm before retiring, is excellent for 
persons having a cough or cold. 

It is also excellent for consumptive persons, and is only 
second to snail-broth. 

Another. — Take the hind-legs of fifty well-skinned 
green frogs, put them in cold water and a little salt for 
half an hour — drain them ; then put them in a crockery 
kettle, with a leek, half a carrot, two stalks of celery, a 
middling-sized parsnip, a turnip, two onions, one clove of 
garlic, two ounces of fat bacon, a little salt, and white pep- 
per; cover the whol^ well with cold water, set on the fire, 
simmer gently about four hours ; strain, pour on croutons, 
and serve. 

* 

The hind-legs of the frogs are taken from the strainer, 
placed on a dish, and served at breakfast the next day, 
with a white sauce, or in fricassee, as a chicken. 

Game. — Roast or bake, till about one-third done, two 
prairie-hens, and put them in a soup-kettle with about one 
pound of lean beef, salt, and five pints of water. Set the 
kettle on a rather slow fire, skim ofl^ the scum when it 
gatherg on the surface, and then add half a carrot, two 
stalks of parsley, one of celery, one onion with a clove 



68 P0TAGE8 OB SOUPS. 

stuck in it, a bay-leaf, six pepper-corns, and two cloves of 
garlic. Simmer about three hours, and take the birds out 
of the kettle ; simmer then two hours longer ; strain, and 
the broth is ready for use. 

Game-broth is warming and stimulating ; it may .be 
taken alone, or prepared with croutonSj rice, vermicelli, or 
other Italian pastes, the same as beef-broth. 

The prairie-hens are served in salmis j and the beef is 
served as boiled bee£ 

Snail. — Clean and prepare twenty-five snails as difect- 
ed. Put them in a saucepan, with a carrot, an onion, 
and a head of lettuce, all chopped, a small handful of 
chervil, a few leaves of sorrel, and a little salt ; cover the 
whole with three pints of cold water. Boil slowly for 
about three hours, strain the broth, add a little butter to 
it, and it is ready for use. 

A tumblerful of this broth, taken.warm before retiring, 
is certainly the best thing for a consumptive person. 

It is also excellent for a cough. 

Just salt the snails to taste, and eat them as they are, 
warm or cold. 

Veal. — Procure two pounds of v^l, from the neck or 
breast piece. Put the meat in a soup-kettle with two 
quarts of cold water and a little salt ; set it on a good fire, 
and skim off the scum as soon as it gathers on the surface. 
When skimmed, add a head of lettuce, a leek (and a few 
stalks of chewil if handy) ; simmer for about three hours ; 
strain, and use. 

This broth, as well as chicken and turkey broth, is ex- 
cellent for convalescent persons. 

It may be made ncher bj putting a little more meat, 
according to taste; but generally the physician. gives di- 
rections. 



POTAGES OB 80UPS. 69 

Another. — Soak a calf's liver in cold water for two 
hours, clean and wash it well ; put it in a soup-kettle with 
about three pints of cold water, salt, boil gently for an 
hour and a half^ and then add a handful of water-cresses ; 
simmer fifteen minutes longer, strain and use. 

Another, — ^Proceed as above in every particular, ex- 
cept that you use a handful of chervil instead of water- 
cresses. 

Another, — Use three or four leeks instead of water- 
cresses, and proceed as above for every other particular. 

The last three especially make a very refreshing drink, 
and are a great relief in some cases of fever. 

Vegetable Broth (called also JBjcmillon Maigre), — Scrape, 
clean, and slice three carrots and three turnips, peel three 
onions ; fry the whole with a little butter till it turns rather 
yellow ; and then add two plants of celery cut in pieces, 
three or four leeks, also cut in pieces ; stir and fry the 
•whole for about six minutes. When fried, add also one 
clove of garlic, salt, pepper, two cloves, two stalks of pars- 
ley, a little nutmeg grated ; cover with about three quarts 
of water. Keep on a rather slow fire, skim off the scum 
carefully, and then simmer for about three hours. Strain, 
and use. 

This liquor is called vegetable broth, and is used in- 
stead of broth in time of Lent by persons who do not want 
to use beef-broth; 

Another, — Proceed as above, and with the same vege- 
tables till th^ are fried. Then add salt, pepper, two 
cloves of garlic, four stalks of parsley, three cloves, a. little 
nutmeg grated, two quarts of white beans previously soak- 
ed in cold water for twenty-four hours, and five or six 
quarts of water. Skim it as above ; simmer for about four 
hours ; strain, and use. • 



70 POTAGES OR SOTTPS. 

The beans, carrots, turnips, and leeks may be mashed 
through a colander and served in puree. 

Another, — ^Proceed as above in every particular, with 
the exception that instead of using beans, you use peas, 
lentils, chestnuts, or samp. Peas and lentils are soaked in 
water only for four oj* five hours. Chestnuts must be 
shelled. Some other vegetables may be added, according 
to taste, and also according to the nature of the vegetables. 

Another, — Clean and put in a bowl a head of lettuce, 
a handful of sorrel, same of chervil, same of purslane, and 
all chopped fine j pour over nearly a quart of boiling wa- 
ter, add two ounces of butter, cover the bowl with a wet 
towel ; leave thus half an. hour, and strain. 

When cold it makes a very refreshing drink, and is 
taken morning and evening with salt, to taste. 

It may also be taken warm. 

A la Minute, or made quickly, — Cut four ounces of fat 
salt pork in dice and set it on the fire in a saucepan ; stirj 
and when it is turning rather brown add one onion chop- 
ped,- and half a middling-sized carrot, sliced; stir, and when 
they are partly fried, add also two pounds of lean beef 
cut in small dice ; stir and fry for five- minutes. Then 
pour in it about three pints of boiling water, salt, boil 
gently about forty minutes. Strain, and use. 

The beef may be served with the broth, or separately 
as an entree, with a piquante^ ravigote, or Robert sauce. 

Bisque of Lobster, — Boil one or several lobsters as 
directed, and when cold split the tail in two, lengthwise, 
take the flesh out of the shell, remove the black vein that 
is* on the back, fake out the meat of the two large .claws, 
and keep the flesh of the claws and tail foi; the following 
day's breakfast. 

For SL^insqtiey nothing is thrown away but the head. 



POTAQES OB BOUPS. 71 

stomach, and black vein. The head is the part immedi- 
ately under the eyes ; the stomach is a small, ronnd pouch 
immediately behind the head ; and the vein runs from the 
stomach to the end of the tail. 

Put all the rest^ shell, small claws, all the matter found 
in the large shell (green, Tvhite, or yellow), in a mortar and 
pound welL Then put a tablespoonful of butter in a 
saucepan, set it on the fire, and when the butter is melted, 
put what is in the mortar in, stir with a wooden spoon for 
about ten minutes, then add one pint of warm broth, stir 
for about twenty minutes, and strain. Put the liquor back 
on the fire with about four ounces of toasted bread, boil 
five minutes, and mash through a colander. Put the 
liquor back again on the fire, add one quart of broth, boil 
gently ten minutes, and turn into the soup-dish. 

While it is boiling, chop fine the coral-piece of the lob- 
ster or lobsters, knead it with a piece of butter of about the 
same bulk, then rub both through a wire sieve ; put them 
in the* soup-dish with croutons and about two or three 
ounces of the flesh of the lobster cut in very, small dice. 
Turn the broth into the soup-dish also, and as directed 
above, and serve -warm. 

When there is no coral in the lobster or lobsters, 
knead a hard-boiled yolk of egg with butter in ite stead. 

Use one, two, three, or more lobsters, according to how 
much soup is wanted. It is not costly, because the flesh, 
or most of it, is kept to make a salad the next day, for 
breakfast or lunch. 

The saJad might be served the same day at dinner, but 
lobster is a rather heavy food, and it is more prudent not 
to eat any late in the day. 

£isque of Lobster h la Colbert. — ^Make a bisque as above, 
and while it is on the fire, poach as directed as many eggs 



■ 
I 

\ 



72 POTAGES OB SOUPS. 

as there will be persons at dinner ; pat them in the sonp- 
dish instead of croutons, and serve as above. 

Of Crabs. — Proceed as for a bisque of lobster in every 
particular, except that you use hard-shell crabs instead .of 
lobster. 

The same h la Colbert. — ^Add to the above as many 
poached eggs as you have guests. 

Of Craw-Jish {Bisque (TJScrevissea). — ^Our readers who 
have been in Europe will certainly remfember the name of 
one of the best soups that can be made. It is made of 
craw-fish the same as with lobster, and is certainly more 
delicate than a bisqt^ of lobster or of crabs. (See Craw- 
fish for other particulars.) 

A bisque of craw-fish may also be served a la Colbert 
the same as a bisque of lobster. 

Bouillabaisse. — ^The real bouiUahaisse is made in Mar- 
seilles ; they make an imitation of it in Bordeaux, and 
in many other parts of France and the Continent ; but, like 
a Welsh rarebit prepared out of Wales, it is very inferior 
to the real one. However, we will give the receipt to 
make it here, and as good as possible with the fish that 
can be procured. 

Put a gill o^ sweet-oil in a tin saucepan and set it on 
a sharp fire ; when hot, add two onions and two cloves of 
garlic sliced ; stir so as to partly fry them, and then take 
from the fire. Put also in the pan three pounds of fish, 
such as haddock, halibut, turbot, white-fish — of all if possi- 
ble, but at least of two kinds ; also a dozen muscles, just 
blanched and taken firom the shell (some put them whole, 
properly cleaned). The fish is cut in pieces about two 
inches long. Then add one gill of Catawba or Sauteme 
wine, a bay-leaf, two cloves, two slices of lemon, the juice 
of a tomato, salt, pepper, a pinch of saflron, cover with 



M 



POTAGES OB SOUPS* 73 

cold water, and set the pan back on a brisk fire. After 
about thirty minutes add a teaspoonful of chopped pars- 
ley ; boil ten minutes longer, and it is done. 

The pieces of fish are then placed on a dish and 
served. ' 

Put in a deep dish, and to be served at the same time, 
• some slices of bread, over which you turn the sauce 
through a strainer. 

One slice of bread and one piece of fish is served to 
each person, also some sauce. 

It is put in two different dishes, to avoid breaking 
the pieces of fish. 

There are over a hundred ways of making a bouUla- 
haisse ; the above is one of the best 

There are also about as many ways of spelling the 
same. 

A bouillabaisse is served as a soup. 

POTAGES. 

A la Colbert. — Scrape carrots and turnips and cut 
them in small dice or with a vegetable spoon ; add 
green peas and string-beans, if handy, the beans cut in 
pieces ; set them on the fire in a pan with cold water and 
salt ; boil gently till done, and drain. Put them back on 
the fire, covered with warm broth, salt to taste, boil gently 
about two or three minutes, and turn into the soup-dish, in 
which you have put as many poached eggs as there are 
or will be persons at table. A poached egg with soup is 
served to every person. Proportions of broth and vege- 
tables according to taste. 

Julienne, — Scrape two carrots and two turnips and cut 
them in pieces about an inch and a half long ; cut slices 
lengthwise about one-eighth of an inch thick, then cut 
4 



74 POTAGES OB SOUPS. 

again across, so as to make square strips. Pat tliem in a 
saucepan with about two ounces of butter, three table- 
spoonfuls of cabbage chopped fine, and half a middling- 
sized onion, also chopped ; set on the fire and stir till 
about half fried. Add broth to make it as you wish, thin 
or thick ; boil gently till done ; salt to taste, skim off the 
fat, and serve. It takes about two hours. 

Julienne with Mice, — Boil two ounces of rice in water 
and a little salt, till about three-quarters done ; drain and 
put in the julienne after having added the broth ; finish as 
above. 

Julienne with Barley. — ^Boil barley till done ; add it 
to the julienne at the same time the broth is added, and 
serve as the above. 

Julienne aux Croutons. — Put some croutons in the 
soup-dish, and wh§n the julienne is done, pour it over 
them, and serve. 

Brunoise, — Put an ounce of butter in a saucepan on 
the fire, and when melted, add one carrot, one turnip, a 
little celery, all cut in dice ; stir till they turn yellow, then 
add about a quart of broth, a middling-sized leek cut in 
pieces, a few leaves of lettuce' and of sorrel, if handy, and 
a pinch of sugar. Simmer about two hours ; skim off the 
fiat ; add a few drops of burnt sugar to color. 

Have croutons in the soup-dish,- turn the potage over 
them, and serve. 

Brunoise with Rice, — ^Proceed as above, except that 
you add from two to four ounces of boiled rice to the 
potage ten minutes before taking from the fire. Serve 
without croutons. 

Another. — ^Use boiled barley instead of boiled rice. 

A la Monaco, — ^Put some thin slices of stale bread in 
the soup-diBh, sprinkle pulverized sugar and orange-rind 



POTAGES OB SOUPS. • 76 

grated all OTer. Poor boiling milk over ; cover the dish 
for fiyo minutes, and serve. 

A la Hegence. — ^Put about two dozen quenelles made 
with chicken into the soup-dish with half a pint of boiled 
green peas ; turn boiling consommi over, and servo warm* 

. A la Hoyale, — ^Make a custard with a dozen yolks of 
eggs, about the same volume of good cream, season with 
sugar, salt, and a little nutmeg ; cook, and when perfectly 
cold, cut it in slices and again cut in fancy shapes with 
paste-cutters or with a knife ; place it in the soup-dish, 
pour boiling consommS gently over, and serve warm. 

Potage Printanier (called also Jardinikre and h la 
Paysanne), — It is a "potsLge julierme, to which is added the 
top or eatable part of six asparagus, six turnip-rooted red 
radishes, and two or three tablespoonfuls of green peas. 
They are fried, boiled, and served with the other vege- 
tables. 

VeloutS. — ^Put yolks of eggs in the soup-dish and beat 
them a little with cold or lukewarm broth ; then pour 
boiling broth over them, little by little, stirring the while, 
and serve warm. 

It is made thin or thick, according to taste. 

With Arrow-root — Set broth in a saucepan on the fire, 
and as soon as it boils, sprinkle some arrow-root into it, 
stirring the while with a wooden spoon ; boil gently for 
labout half an hour, stirring now and then the while, and 
fcerve warm, adding salt to taste. 

Milk or consommi may be used instead of broth. 

If you use milk, add a very little salt and sugar, to taste. 

The proportion of. arrow-root to a certain quantity of 
•roth is according to taste ; it can be made thick or thin. 

With Corn-starch. — ^Proceed as for arrow-root. 

With Bread, — This is the simplest of all. Dry some 



L. 



76 • POTAOES OB ^XTPS. 

Blices of bread, either stale or fresh, in the oven, place them 
in the soup-dish, pour boiling broth over them, cover the 
dish for two or three minutes, and serve. 

With i^ectt/a.-r-Proceed as for arrow-root. Being 
finer, it does not require more than about twelve or fifteen 
minutes. 

With Barley, — ^Wash the barley in cold water, then 
drop it in boiling broth,. little by little, sturing the while ; 
when in, keep simmering till perfectly done, which yon 
ascertain easily by tasting ; add then salt to taste, a pinch 
of sugar, and serve warm. 

It must be stirred occasionally while on the fire. 

With Gruel (Fremh Orttau). — ^It is made as with 
arrow-root. 

With Indian Meal. — ^Proceed as with arrow-root. 

With Sago. — Sago must be boiled gently about an 
hour; but for the rest, proceed as with arrow-root in every 
particular. 

With Semoule. — ^With semoule it is the same as with 
arrow-root, except that it is boiled only about 'fifteen 
minutes. 

• With Tapioca, — ^Tapioca is prepared like arrow-root, 
but must be boiled about forty-five minutes. 

All the above, like arrow-root, may be prepared with 
eonsommSy or with milk, as well as with broth. 

With GibleUs.'^Throw the giblets in boiling water and 
a little salt, boil for ten minutes, take off and drain. Drop 
them in broth, boil gently till done, and turn the whole 
into the soup-dish, in which you have some leeks, boiled 
and cflt in pieces. Serve warm. 

Some croutons may be added, and chervil chopped fine, 
just before turning into the soup-dish ; or they may be 
placed in the soup-dish before pounng in the broth. 



\ 



POTAGBS OB BOUPfl. 77 

With Mackerel, — Clean, prepare, and cut in pieces 
abont one inch and a half long, a mackerel weighing 
about one pound and a half; fry it with two ounces of but- 
ter till it turns rather brown, then cover with nearly a 
quart of water ; add a few slices of carrot, same of turnip, 
a small onion, two or three stalks of parsley, salt, pepper, 
a clove of garlic, and a stalk of celery if handy ^ boU 
slowly for about an hour ; mash gently through a colander, 
put what has passed through the colander back on the fire, 
add a little butter, give one more boil, turn into the soup- 
dish over croutons, and serve. 

With new Carrots. — ^Take small, young carrots, clean 
and wash them, then blanch them for about five minutes. 
Set them on the fire, cover with broth or eonsomm4; boil 
gently till done, and serve. 

Another, — ^With carrots and peas. Proceed as above 
till the carrots ore half done, then add blanched green 
peas; finish the cooking, and serve. 

Another, — ^Make as the above, but using on^ or two 
heads of cabbage-lettuce, blanched for two minutes, in- 
stead of green peas. 

Fancy Potage, — ^Take twelve very small rolls ; cut off 
one end and remove all the soft part of it ; fill them with 
quenelles of chicken ; replace the piece cut off as well as 
possible ; place them in the soup-dish ; pour boiling con- 
sommS or good broth over them ; cover the dish for ten 
minutes, and serve warm. 

With Vermicelli, — ^Drop the vermicelli in boiling water, 
and in which you have put a little salt ; boil ten minutes, 
drain, drop again in cold water, drain again and put it in 
boiling broth ; boil ten minutes ; add salt to taste, and serve. 

With Macaroni, — ^Proceed as for vermicelli in every 
particular, except that it takes twice as long to cook. 



78 POTAGES OB SOUPS. 

With Macaroni and Cheese. — ^Proceed as for the above, 
and when done, put. grated cheese in the soup-dish, turn 
the macaroni over it, and serve. 

With Italian Pastes. — ^ISTo matter of what shape are the 
pastes, proceed as for vermicelli ; the only difference is in 
the time of cooMng, which depends on the size. 

ConsommS may he used instead of broth. If milk is 
used, sugar must be added. 

With Macaroni h, la Corinne. — Set two quarts of cold 
water on the fire, with an ounce of salt, and two ounces of 
butter ; at the first boil, drop into it four ounces of maca- 
roni ; boil five minutes, and drain. Immediately drop the 
macaroni in boiling consommSf and boil gently till done. 
Drain it again and place a layer of it in the soup-dish, over 
the macaroni ; place a thin layer of Parmesan cheese grated; 
then a" layer of macedoine of vegetables ; then again, a 
layer of macaroni, one of cheese, etc.; pour consommS to 
taste on the whole, and serve warm.' 

With^Macaroni h la Medici (also called h la NapoU- 
taine). — ^Proceed as for macaroni & la Corinne im every 
particular, with the exception that you put also in the 
soup-dish a layer of qtcenelles of chicken over that of 
macedoifie of vegetables, and serve in the same way. 

The quenelles are boiled till done, in broth in which 
you put a few sprigs of mignonette. 

Another. — Add to the above about a gill of thick to- 
mato-sauce, just before pouring the consommS over the 
macaroni, etc. 

Macaroni h la Romulm, — ^Prepare eight ounces of 
macaroni as directed for macaroni a la Corinne ; place a 
layer of it in the soup-dish ; then over it a layer of que- 
nelles of chicken ; over the quenelles, a thin layer of grated 
Parmesan cheese ; then a layer of thin shces of salt beef 



. . P0TAGE8 .OB SOUPS. 79 

tongue, boiled and Bkimined ; over the latter a layer ot 
sweetbreads boiled in broth and cat in thin slices also ; 
and lastly a layer of thin slices of boiled flounders. Sev- 
eral layers of each of the above may be placed in the soup 
dish, in the same order ; then boiling conspmmi is poured 
over the whole ; the dish is covered, put in a warm place 
for ten minutes, and served. 

Although this dish is a regular potage, and served ap 
such, still many Italians make a meal of it. 

With Macaroni h la Mossinu — Proceed as for maca- 
roni fit la Oorinne above, with two exceptions : first, that 
you add a layer of qtienellea of partridge ; and second, that 
you use consommi of 4)artridge. 

With Macaroni ct la St Pierre, — Proceed also as for 
potage macaroni h la Corinne as far as placing a layer of 
macaroni in the soup-dish ; then put over it a layer of 
boiled soft roe of fish ; over which put a thin layer of 
grated Parmesan cheese ; then a layer of queneUes of fish ; 
another layer of macaroni ; over it, a layer of boiled thin 
slices of salmon ; macaroni again, etc. Pour boiling conr 
somme over the whole, and serve. 

Although bearing the* name of Saint Pierre (St.- Peter), 
the above dish has not been devised by the saint ; but, like 
all the above, save that h la Corinne, it has been invent- 
ed by monks. 

With N'ouilles.—Bet broth on the fire in a saucepan, 
and at the first boiling take the nouilles from the water 
with a skimmer and put in the broth, stir' occasionally and 
b#il gently till done. The proportions are according to 
taste. The more broth tisod for a certain quantity of 
nouilles the thinner the soup will be, and vice versa. Salt 
to taste, and serve. 

With Potatoes, — Cut about half a pint of potatoes with 



80 POTAGES OB SOUPS. 

a vegetable spoon (it is understood half, a pint when cut, 
the rest being ysed to make mashed potatoes), and blanch 
them for three minutes, drain and put them in boiling 
broth ; boil gently till about half done, add then two oi 
three tablespoonfdls of green peas; finish the cooMng; 
and just before serving add a pinch of sugar, salt to taste, 
turn into the soup-dish, and serve with or without crou- 
tons. 

With Qtienelles. — ^Drop quenelles in broth ; boil gently 
till done, and serve. 

The proportion accordiug to taste. Half a dozen 
quenelles for each person, and about half a pint of broth, 
make a good proportion. 

With Rice, — ^Put boiled rice in the soup-dish, turn 
boiling broth over it, and serve warm. 

With Turnips. — ^When clean, cut the turnips in slices, 
drop them in' boiling water, add a little salt, boil for five 
minutes, and drain. Set them on the fire in a saucepan, 
cover them with milk, and boil gently till done. Mash 
them through a colander, put them back on the fire with 
milk, butter, a little sugar and salt ; stir and boil gently a 
few minutes ; then add a yolk of egg for two turnips, stir 
in also two or three tablespoonifiils of cream ; stir, but do 
not boil ; put some croutons in the soup-dish, turn the tui^ 
nips over, and serve. 

Puree of Split Peas, — ^The proportions vary according 
to taste ; the more peas that are used with a certain quan- 
tity of broth, the thicker the potage will be, and vice versa. 
Soak, one pint of spht peas in cold water over nigfit 
and drain. Put them in a saucepan with a few slices of 
carrot, same of turnip, same of onion and salt Cover with 
cold water, set on the fire and boil till done. Drain, and 
then mash through a colander. Put back on the fire with 



F0TAGE3 OB SOUPS. 81 

warm broth to taste — ^that is, to make tbe potage tbin or 
thick, season with salt or pepper ; boil gently for five min- 
tites, stirring the while ; turn into the soup-dish over cnm- 
tonSy and serve warm. It may be served without croti' 
tons, 

Furie of Green FeM.-^t is sometimes called h la Chan- 
tilly, or h la Frangaw. Put cold water and a little salt on 
the fire, and at the first boiling throw the peas in ; if they 
are very tender, leave them in only a few seconds ; if lai^o 
and rather hard, boil one or two minutes ; drain, mash 
them through a colander, and finish as the above. 

Furh of Dry Beans. — ^White and dry beans have several 
names, but no matter what kind, they are prepared alike. 
If you are not sure that the beans are new, soak them in 
cold water for about twenty-four hours, and drain. Cook, 
mash, and serve them the same as split peas. 

Fur6e of Lentils, — ^Wash the lentils in cold water and 
proceed as for split peas for the rest 

Furee of P^<w.— Proceed as for split peas. 

With Lima Beans. — Proceed as with green peas. 

With Fotatoes. — Steam potatoes, then peel and mash 
them through a colander. Put them back on the fire with 
broth, butter, and salt to taste; stir, boil a few minutes, 
and serve with croutons. Water or milk may be used in- 
stead of broth. 

With Fumphins. — Peel, take away the seed and cut 
the pumpkin in small pieces ; put them in a stewpan with 
water just enough to cover them, a little salt and white 
pepper, set on the fire ^pd take off when cooked ; throw 
away the water, mash and strain the pumpkin, put it back 
in the stewpan, cover with milk, add a little sugar, set it 
again on the fire, and take off at the first boiling ; pour a 
little of it on croutons in the soup-dish, and keep covered 
4* 



82 POTAGES OE SOUPS. 

in a warm place for ten minutes ; then ponr also the re- 
mainder in, and serve. 

Another, — ^Prepare as above, throw the pieces in boil- 
ing water with a little salt for five minutes, mash and 
drain ; put butter in a stewpan, set it on the fire ; when 
melted put the pumpkin in, stir about five minutes ; have 
ready in your soup-dish some slices of bread Med in but- 
ter, and dusted with sugar, pour on them some boiling 
milk, keep covered in a warm place two or three minutes ; 
then turn the pumpkin on, at the same time mixing the 
whole gently, and serve. 

With Squash, — ^It is made as with pumpkin. 

With Asparagus. — ^Proceed as for green peas. 

With Jerusalem Artichokes, — ^It is made like that of 
potatoes. 

With Carrots, — ^When made with young carrots, it is 
called potage purie Cricy^ or h la Criey. Add broth to 
taste to a purSe of carrots, turn into the soup-dish over 
•croMiorw, and serve. 

With colored Beans, — ^When made with colored beans, 
it is called h la Condi, Proceed as with beans. 

♦ The Prince of Cond6 devised this potage, and besides 
cooking the beans in broth, he used to put in one or two 
partridges also, to give, as he used to say, " a good taste 
to the beans." 

Wit^i Cauliflowers, — ^Make a purie of cauliflowers, to 
which you add broth to taste, and serve with croutons. 

With Chestnuts, — ^Add broth and croutons to a purie 
of chestnuts, and serve warm. 

With Turnips, — It is made as with carrots. 

With Wheat, — Cut ears of wheat when full, but not 
ripe, and put them away to dry. Shell the wheat ; wash 
it in cold water, put it in h, saucepan, cover it with broth 



FOTAGEd OB SOUPS. 83 

and boil gently till done. Mash through a colander, pat 
back on the fire with a little butter; add broth if ^ too 
thick) stir now and then for about fifteen minutes ; take 
from the fire, add two or three yolks of eggs beaten with 
a little cream and a pinch of sugar ; mix them well with 
the rest, and serve warm. 

With Sweet Com, — ^Proceed as with wheat in every 
particular. It makes a healthy and excellent potage. 

*Water may be used instead of broth, but it is not as 
nutritive. 

With Swallows^ NestSy or Chinese Soup. — ^The nests 
are made a mucilaginous substance of^ and built by the 
species of swallows called JSTirundo esculenta; it would 
require several pages to describe them, together with their 
compound material, and would be out of place m a receipt 
book. Suffice it to say, that they sell for $100 a pound 
in London and Paris, (gold of course), and the cheapest pot- 
age for one person costs about three dollars. 

Soak «about four ounces of it in cold water for ten 
hours, drain and clean. Put it in a saucepan, cover well 
with chicken-broth, place the saucepan in boiling water for 
about two hours, add salt to taste, and then drain again. 
Place the nests in the soup-dish, pour boiling consomme 
over them, and serve warm. 

The Chinese are said to use very rich consommS of 
chicken to prepare them. 

With Tomatoes and Mice, — ^Blanch half a dozen to- 
matoes, and skin them. Put them in a saucepan with a . 
quart of broth, season with an onion sliced, three or four 
sprigs of parsley, one of fhyme, half a dozen pepper-corns, 
a bay-leaf, two cloves, two cloves of garlic ; salt and pep- 
per. Boil gently tiU reduced to about two-thirds, when 
mash gently through a colander.* It is understood by mash- 



1 



84 POTAGEa OB SOUPS. 

ing gently, to maah so that all the liquid part shall pass 
through the colander, and the seeds and spices shall be 
retained in it and thrown away. 

While the tomatoes are on the fire boiling, set four 
ounces of rice on the fire with cold water and salt, and boil 
it tiU tender. Drain the rice, put it in a saucepan with the 
tomato-juice after being mashed, set the saucepan oh the 
fire, add one ounce of butter, a teaspoonfiil of sugar, b^oth 
according to taste ; to make the potage thin or thick, boil 
gently fifteen minutes, turn into the soup-dish, and serve 
warm. 

The same may be done with canned tomatoes ; in that 
case, set a can of tomatoes on the fire with the same sea- 
sonings, and proceed exactly as for tha above in every other 
particular. 

The same with Croutons, — Fry some crouUms with a 
little butter, put them in the soup-dish ; turn the potage, or 
rather the same mixture as above, over them ; cover the 
soup-dish for two or three minutes, and serve. 

With Tomdtoes and Croutons only. — ^Fry the croutons 
and put them in the soup-dish ; turn the tomatoes only 
over them, after being prepared as above ; cover the soup- 
dish for two or three minutes, and serve. 

Puree a la Heine. — ^Procure a rather old chicken and 
cut it in pieces as for fricassee ; set it on the fire in a sauce- 
pan with about a quart of cold water, salt, and boil gently 
about one hour. Then add about four ounces* of rice, 
washed in cold water, continue boiling until the chicken is 
overdone and tender. Take the pieces of chicken from 
the pan, scrape the flesh off the bones ; cut the white 
flesh (the flesh that is on both sides of the breast-bone) 
in dice, and put it in the soup-dish ; chop fine all the 
other flesh, and then mash it through a sieve or strainer, 



J 



FOTAGES OB 80I7P8. 85 

together with the rice. If it be rather too thick to mash 
through, moisten it with broth. A large iron spoon is the 
best ntensil to mash through with. Then set the rice and 
flesh back on the fire in a saucepan with broth to taste, 
stir and add immediately from two to four ounces of buir 
ter, a gill of cream, or, if not handy, a gill of milk. 
Keep stirring on a slow fire for five or six minutes ; salt to 
taste^ turn into the soup-dish, "and serve. 

There is no ^nger of curdling if kept on a slow fire 
and not allowed to boil. 

The same with Broth — ^To make the potage richer, 
cook the chicken and rice in broth instead of water, and 
proceed as above for the rest. • 

The same with cpnsommS. — The chicken and rice may 
also be cooked in comommij and when mashed through 
the sieve, add consommS also instead of broth, and you 
have an exceedingly rich soup. This is excellent for per- 
sons having throat diseases ; it is easily swallowed, and 
very nutritious. 

The same h la J^ranpaisC'^The potage puree h la 
frSnfaise is the same as that a la reine, with the addition 
of quenelles of chicken. 

TTie same h la Princesse, — ^Add to that h la reine, the 
white flesh of a roasted chicken, cut in dice, and put in the 
soup-dish. 

Puree of Game, — ^Proceed as for potage puree h la 
reine^ with the exception that you use prairie-hen, instead 
of chicken. 

SOUPS. 

Maigre^ or Vegetable Soup. — Proceed as for julienne 
in every particular,' except that water is used instead of 
broth. Four ounces of butter may be used instead of 
two. 



86 POTAGBS OB BOUP8. 

Beef and Mutton Soup. — ^Take three poundsof beef 
and two pounds of breast of mutton; put both pieces in 
a crockery kettle with four quarts of cold water, salt, and 
pepper, set on a "slow fire ; skim carefdlly, then add half a 
carrot, two turnips, two onions with one clove stuck* in 
each, two stalks of celery, two leeks, one sprig of parsley, 
and one clove of garlic. Simmer four or five hours ; dish 
the meat with carrots, turnips, and leeks around, to be 
served after the soup if you choose ; strain the broth, 
skim the fat ofi", put back on the fire, give one boil ; have 
croutons in the soup-dish, pour over them, and serve. 

Mock Turtle, — ^Put two ounces of butter in a sauce- 
pan and set it on the fire, when melted, add a tablespoonful 
of flour, stir, and when turning brown, add three pints of 
broth (either beef-broth or broth made by boiling a calf's 
head, according to taste) ; boil five minutes then add a 
liquor glass of brandy or rum, from one to three glasses 
of Madeira, Port, or Sherry wine, about four ounces of 
calf Vhead (the skin only) cut in dice, mushroomi or 
truffles, or both, also cut in dice; boil ^ve minutes. 
While it is boiling, cut two hard-boiled eggs and hAf a 
lemon in dice and put them in the soup-dish; turn the 
broth over, and serve. 

Made with beef broth it is certainly richer than when 
made with calf 's-head broth, the latter is gelatinous bat 
less nourishing than the former. 

Mock Turtle with consomme, — Use consommi instead 
of broth, and you have as rich a soup as «an be made. 

Mock turtle is an English soup, very rich and very 
good. 

Au Chasset^r (Hunter's or SportsmmCs Soup), — ^A 
potage au chasseur is always made with game, such as 
rabbit, prairie-hen, grouse, venison, wild turkey, wild 



J 



P0TAGE8 OB SOUPS. 87 

)igeon, etc., bat never with aquatic birds. It might be 
nade with qnai], but that bird is really too delicate to 
nake soup with. A whole bird or animal is never used» 
)ut the bones and trimmings only. After having cut off 
he fleshy parts, the bones are cracked and used to make 
he potage. 

Take the bones of two prairie-hens after having cut off 
he flesh on both sides of the breast-bone, also the legB ; 
ut the bones in pieces about half an inch long and set 
hem on the fire with half an ounce of butter, stir (or two 
»r throe minutes, cover with broth, or game broth, and 
>oil gently till well cooked, or about two hours. 

Put in another pan, and set it on the fire at the same 
ime as the above, half a head of cabbage, one carrot, one 
umip, and one onion, all cut fine ; about half a pound of 
ean salt pork ; cover with cold water, and boil gently for 
bout two hours also. 

In case the water or broth should boil away, add a 
ittle more. 

After having boiled both vegetables and bones about 
wo hours, take off the salt pork from the pan in which 
be vegetables are, and turn what you have in the other 
tan aver the vegetables, through a strainer ; add some 
roth if it is too thick ; boil ten minutes, and serve. 

Proceed as above with the bones and trimmings of 
ther birds. 

Turtle or Terro^w.— Cut the turtle in dice, throw 
J in boiling water for two or three minutes, and 
rain ; put it in a stewpan with onions and ham, also cut 
1 dice ; season with thyme, parsley, bay-leaf, salt, pepper, 
ad a wine-glass of Madeira wine or of good brandy ; 
et with E8pagnx)le sauce or with consommS^ set on a good 
re, boil about half an hour. Ten minutes before taking 



POTAGEB OB BO0PS. 

L tbe fiie, chop the e^s of the turtle, after having 
id them, and pnt them in a, stewpaa ; if the tortle has 
J, chop and use hard-boiled eggs instead. When 
3, throw away parsley, thyrfle, and hay-lea^ tnm into 
Is, add a little chopped cherril, and a qoarter of a rind 
lemon, also chopped; the latter ia ODOugh for six 
ons. Serve wann, 

[t may be struned before pntUng it in bowls, accord- 
to taste, 

Inrtle-steaks are prepared lite beef-steaks. 
iFith Mice and MUk. — ^Wash half a pound of rice in 
. water. Set it on the fire with about one pint of 
:, boil gently till done, fillin g with more milk, so as to 
> the rice always covered. When coolced, add a little 
er, milk according to taste, sngar or salt, or both, and 
e. It will not take more than two qnarts of milk, 
rhe French name for the above is rt* ffl« lait. 
With Okra. — Okrn or gumbo is little known here; 

it is good in pickles, used like encumbers. It is 
;h used for soap in the Southern States and in the 
it Indies. 

When green and tender, cat it very fine, cook it in 
h, add a few tomatoes or tomato-sauce, according to 
e ; season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar. 
en the tomatoes arc cooked, serve warm. 
If dry, make a potsge like that of tapioca, to which 

add a little tomato-aance and pepper. 

With Onions, — Put two ounces of butter in a saucepan, 

when melted add a tablespoonful of flour, stir, and 
n turning rather yellow add also four or five onions 
id, stir till fried, when you add broth to taste (about 

quart); boil gently, abont fifteen minutes; mash 
ugh a colander, put back on the fire; give one hoil. 



* POTAQEfl OB SOUPS. . 89 

lalt and pepper to taste; turn into the sonp-dish, in which 
70TL have some croutonSj and serve. 

More or less onions* may be used, according to taste. 

Ox-TaiL — Chop the px-tail in pieces ahout one inch 
ong, set them on the fire, with about one ounce of butter, 
tir till it turns rather brown, and turn the fat off. Then 
idd broth to taste, boil slowly till the pieces of tail are well 
Lone ; add salt, pepper, and when handy add also- three 
»r four tomatoes whole ; boil gently about fifteen minutes 
onger, turn into the soup-dish, and serve meat and all. 

Some add wine and liquor, the same as to the mock- 
artlc soup, but this is according to taste. The soup is 
accellent served without wine or liquor. 

When no tomatoes are used, it is not necessary to 
-oil fifteen minutes longer, serve as soon as done. 

Simple. — Use water instead of broth; season with 
arrot, turnip, parsley, leek, onions, cloves, salt, and pepper, 
ierve as the above. 

Ox-cheek. — ^An ox-cheek soup is made the same as an 
x-tail soup. The broth is made with ox-cheek instead of 
dth. other parts of the beef, and the potage or soup made 
rith the broth. A little wine — ^Madeira, Port, or Sherry — 
s sometimes added, as for mock-turtle. 

Sheep^s-taiL — Proceed as for ox-tail in every particu- 
ur. 

Sheep^8-neck, — ^Made the same as ox-cheek soup. 

Sorrel. — ^Put two ounces of butter in a saucepan, set 
i on the fire, and as soon as melted, put a good handM 
f sorrel in, stir for about one minute ; then add a pint 
nd a half of water, salt ; boil two or three minutes ; add 
gain a little butter, give one boil and turn into the soup- 
ish in which you have croutons. 

As soon as taken from the fire, two, three, or four 



FOTAQEfl OK SOOFS . 

of eggs, beaten with a tablespoonful of water, ma 
Ided. 

rotb may be used instead of water. 
*i/»ler. — Put one quart of oysters with their liquor i 
cepan, with one pint of cold water, and set it on 
fire. Take from the fire at the fieet boil, and aldi 
e scum. Take the oystera from the pan with a skin 
ind put them in the BOup-dish. By keeping the soa[ 
in a warm but not hot place, the oysters will ne 
m. Add to the juice iu the saucepan a gill of whit 
; give one boil, and take from the fire. Mix tw 
19 of butter with two tablespoonfuls of flonrina bowl 
the juice and wine into the bowl also, and mix th 
1 well ; put the mixture back in the saucepan, and sc 
the fire, adding about half a dozen mushrooms, tW' 
:ee stalks of parsley, and pepper to taste. Boil tw' 
ies, turn over the oysters through a strainer, an< 

he mushrooms may also be turned into the soup-disb 
'dbbage. — Put in a kettle with two quarts and a hal 
ter a pound of salted pork, same of breaat of mutton 
if handy, the remains of a roasted piece ; set on a sloi 
skim before it boils, and then boil for about an hoo 
half; strain, to remove the small bones, if any ; po 
in the kettle broth and meat, also one middUt^^zei 
ige, which you must have provioasly thrown in boi 
ater and boiled ten minutes ; add then two cairott 
umip, two leeks, half a head of celery, one onio; 
a clove stuck in it, a little salt and pepper, and abon 
1 ponnd of sausage (not smoked) ; then boil gent] 
two hours, strain the broth, pour it on crouto/it i 
>np-dish, and ecrvc. 
be pork, mutton, and sausage, with the cabbag 



POTAGES OB SOUPS. 91 

oimd, may be served on a dish after the soup at a fsaxnlj 
uner, or kept for breakfast the next day. 

Cauliflower, — Clean «nd cut in small pieces three 
iddling-sized canliflowers. Fat in a stewpan two ounces 
' batter, and set*it on a moderate fire ; when hot pat the 
.oMowers in; stir now and then till it turns brown, then 
Id a sprig of thyme, same of parsley, a bay-leaf, one 
lion with a clove stuck in it, salt, and white pepper ; sim* 
er gently till the whole is well cooked, throw away the 
lion, clove, thyme, and bay-leaf; mash well the cauli- 
)wcrs, strain and put back on the fire with the broth ; 
ve one boil, pour on croutons^ and serve. 

Cheese. — ^Put four ounces of butter in a soup-kettle, 
ith an onion chopped fine ; set on a brisk fire, stir now 
id then till it has a yellow color, then sprinkle on^t half 
tablespoonful of flour, keep stirring till it turns brown ; 
en add two quarts of water, salt, and pepper ; boil about 
'e minutes. Have prepared in the soup-dish the foUow- 
g : a thin layer of grated cheese, GruySre or pine-apple 
leese ; on it a layer of thin slices of bread, then another 
cheese, again another of bread, etc., three or four of 
ch ; strain, and pour the liquor in the kettle on the 
!iole ; keep in a warm place five minutes, and serve. 

Milk, — Put a quart of milk in a tin saucepan and set 
on the fire ; when it begins to rise, sweeten it to taste ; 
ve one boil, pour on toasts bread, or on croutcmSy or on 
ounces of boiled rice, and serve. 

Tolks of eggs may be stirred in, just before turniug the 
Ilk into the soup-dish, and when taken firom the fire. 

Maigre (called Soup auxHerhes^ Herh-Broth^ etc.). — 
ash, drain, and chop fine a handful of sorrel, a dozen sprigs 
chervil, and half a head of lettuce ; put an ounce of but- 
r in a stewpan, set it on a good fire ; when melted, put 



92 POTAGES'OB SOUPS. 

tbe sorrel, chervil, and lettuce in, add salt and pepper, stir 
till the whole is cooked ; then cover with lukewarm water J 
boil three minutes, beat well thpee yolks of eggs with a 
tablespoonful of water, take Tfrom the fire and put the eggs 
in while stirring ; pour immediately on croutons, and serve. 

With Leeks. — Clean six leeks; cut them in pieces 
about half an inch long, then fry them with a little butter 
till turning rather yellow ; add then about a pint and a 
half of water, boH gently till the leeks are perfectly 
cooked, salt to taste, and it is ready for use. 

This broth may be taken warm or cold. 

It is a demulcent, and at the same time the most re- 
freshing drink that can be taken. 

With Clams, — ^Wash and clean the clams welL Then 
put tl^em in a saucepan with half a pint of water (say 
one quart of. clams), set on the fire, and at the first boil, 
take off and drain. Put the pan back on the fire with 
two ounces of butter- in it; when melted, fry a chopped 
onion in the butter, add then the liquor dndned, a pint of 
water, salt, pepper, parsley chopped fine, and the clams ; 
boil two minutes, add also a little butter, and when melted 
and mixed, turn over some croutons in the soup-dish, and 
serve warm. 

With Muscles, — Proceed as for claitLs in every par- 
ticular. 

Allemande, or German Soup. — Soak four ounces of 
pearl-barley in tepid water for eight or ten hours, and 
drain* Put it in a saucepan with one quart of broth, a 
piece of leek, one of celery, and boil gently about one 
hour and a half. While it is boiling, mix well together 
in a bowl one tablespoonful of flour and half a giQ of 
broth, which turn into the saucepan, also grated nutm^ 
and sugar to taste ; boil ten minutes longer, and serve. 



FOTAOEfl OB BOT7F8. ' 98 

AnotheTj called h la Maria f/%ereM.-^Proceed as for 
le aboYCy except that you mix in a bowl six yolks of 
ygs with half a gill of brotb, and no flour ; and finish as 
I tfift preceding. 

Another way, — ^Instead of using pearl-barley, use floor 
lat yon have dried in a bakepan till it turns yellow. • 

Indian, or Gurry * — ^Pat in a saucepan one ounce of 
itter and set it on the fire ; ii^en melted, firy in it two 
rge onions, one carrot, and ha]f a turnip, all sliced ; also 
le leek, a stalk of celery, and four of parsley, all cut fine. 
Then the whole is firied, coyer with about one quart of 
roth, season with two cloves, a bay-lea^ half a teaspoon- 
1 of cayenne pepper, same of pimento, two stalks of 
Lyme ; boil gently about one hour and a quarter, and 
rain. Put the liquor back in the saucepan and add four 
unces of boiled rice, a little saflron to color, simmer about 
%een minutes longer, and serve. 

' This soup is good and healthy for southern countries, 
it is too l%hly spiced for this climate. 

Poliehf or Barecz. — ^Peel and clean fifteen or twenty 
idi beets, split them in two or four lengthwise, and put 
lem in an earthen vessel with a pail of water and about 
pound of rye bread ;. cover the vessel as air-tight as pos- 
ble, and set it in a warm place (about 80 degrees Fahr.) 
•r about eight days. After that time the liquor is rather 
mr, then drain. 

Put in a saucepan four pounds of lean beef, one pound 
* smoked pork, half a pound of ham, four onions, two 
eks, and about four quarts of the liquor made as above, 
immer till the whole is done ; skim off the scum that 
ay gather on the.surfece, and then strain. 

Boast tin half done, three chickens, or one chicken and 
le rabbit, or one chicken and one duck ; put them on 



POTAQEfl OE BOCPB. 

e in a saucepan with the liquor struned firom the 
pork, etc., as described above. Boil gently about 
n hour, etraJn the liquor again. Then cut the beef, 
id pork, and bam, in small dice, put the vrhMe in 
>np-diab, with the strained liquor, and serve warm, 
P- 

le chicken, or cbicken and rabbit, or cbickeu and 
me generally served separately, -with some of tha 
nsed to make the liquor, and with the addition of 
'ooms, parsley, celery, onions, and sausages, raw or 
d, according to taste ; and salt, pepper, and spices, 
ting to taste also. 

le poorer classes make tbis sonp with water Instead 
!t-juice, and very often with mntton instead of beef; 
roceed as described above in every other particular. 
tt^sian, or Uha. — The uka is made in Russia with 
& It may be made here with the sturgeou of the 
or with salmon or trout. 

it the fish in pieces about two incbea long, and pnt 
in salt water for one bour, and drain. Cat in small 
■two rooia of parsley and two of celery, throw them 
oiling water five minutes and drain them. Then fry 
with a little butter till they turn yellow, when add 
of broth, and boil gently till it becomes rather thick, 
be pieces of fish in also, add salt and pepper, to 
cover the whole with fish-broth, boil gently till the 
cooked, and serve warm, 
■me caviare may be added juat before serving. 
wther, or Tstchy. — Put four pounds of beef in a 
rettle (the poorer classes always use mutton), with a 
:n or a duck, half a pound of smoked pork, same of 
id sausages, four carrots, foar cloves, twelve pepper- 
salt, two leeks, two onions, four stalks of parsley. 



FOTAQES OB SOUPS. 96 

Qd ODO of celery ; cover the whole with fish-broth, and 
it on a good fire. Skim off the scum carefully) and boil 
entlv till the whole is done. As soon as either *the 
bicken or duck, etc., is done, take it from the kettle. 
Then the whole is cooked, drain. 

Put the liquor back in the kettle with a middling- 
jsed head of cabbage cut in four, or about the same quan- 
ly of sour-krout, sUces of carrots and onions, pearl-barley, 
vmoule^ or gruel ; simmer about three hours, and it is 
one. 

It is served in two ways : first, all the meat and vege- 
ibles are cut in small pieces and served .with the broth 
s soup ; second, the broth is served with the vegetables cut 
p, and th'e meat is served after and separately, as a relevL 

Nothing is thrown away but the pepperKJoms and 
loves. 

Spanish, or Olla Podrida. — Put four ounces of lean 
nd fat salt pork into a saucepan and set it on a good fire ; 
^hen partly fried, add half a. pound of beef, same of mut- 
on, same of veal (occasionally a chicken or partridge is 
dded also), and four ounces of ham. Just cover the 
rhole with cold water, and skim carefully as soon as the 
cam comes on the surface. When skimmed, add a gill 
f dry peas, previously soaked in water for an hour, half 
- small head of cabbage, pimento to taste, one carrot, one 
nrnip, two leeks, three or four stalks of celery, same of 
►arsley, two of thyme, two cloves, two onions, two cloves 
f garlic, ten pepper-corns, and some mace ; fill up with 
?ater so that the whole is just covered, and simmer for 
bout five hours. 

In case the water should simmer away too much, add a 
ttle more. 

When done, dish the pork, beef, mutton, veal, ham, and 



FOTAGSS OB BOUFB. 

cken. Fat the peas, cabbage, carrots, tnmips, lee^ 
!ry, and onions on another dish. 

.Strain the liqaor, poor it on croulont in tiie aonp-diah, 
t Berre the three dishes at the same time. 
The Spanish peasantry and the lower classes in citJeSi 
re tlie vhole in the same dish, and generally omit the 
if and real. The better class seire the fionp first^ and 
n the meat and vegetables afterward. 
Another. — Chop very fine two onions, one cnonmber 
Jed and seeded, a little pimento, two cloves of garlic, 
r spriga of parsley, same of chervil, and mix tbe whole 
a bowl with the juice of four tomatoes, and to which 
1 two or three tablespoonfols of bread-crumbs. Then 
son with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, mnataid, and vaU/et 
taste, and serve. 
The Spanish call it a cool and refreshing soup. 



SAUCES. 



Thebb is no good cooking possible without good sauces. 
Many excellent, pieces of nieat, etc., are spoiled by being 
served with a poor sauce. 

Let every one bear in mind that water is no substitute 
for broth ; that vinegar or water is no substitute for wine, 
etc 

There is no place where the old proverb can be better 
applied than in the kitchen, " Waste not, spare not." 

The JFVench, Italians, Spaniards, and Germans, use 
broth and wine in their cooking, and do not |pend as much 
as the Americans for their food ; they could not afford it ; 
but they waste not, neither do they lose any thing good 
through carelessness or prejudice. 

Good sauces are not as difficult to make as is gener- 
ally believed. 

This general belief comes from the fact that many, 
after having partaken of a certain dish somewhere, and 
liking it much, ask of their own cook to prepare the 
same. • 

The cook, njost probably, has never heard of it, but 
nevertheless prepares a dish which is hardly eatable, and 
is to the other what a crab-apple is to a raspberry. 

The most important thing in making a sauce is for the 
cook to put his or her whole attention and care to it, 

6 



BAUCEa. 

1 Bailees nmst be stirred continually while on tlie 
especially white sauces, such as Bechamel, Be- 
vith cream or cream sauce, and white sauce. , 
necessary to stir all sauces now and then, to pre- 
forming of a tind of skin on the surface, 
onions, shallots, garlics, and vinegar, used in sharp 
nay bo prepared aa described for piquante sauce. 
;ea can always be made to suit the taste. A thou 
I be made as well as a hundred, by merely adding 
■acting one or more of the compounds, or l^ pro- ' 
differently. Ad idea of what can be done in that 
be formed by reading our directions for Supkkub 



i two froah eggs, break them gently, and separate 
;e part from the yolk; be careful to have the yolk 
m any white (there is in every yolk a little white 
lich you cailnot detach without using a fork, knife, 
n) ; mis well the two yolks with twp or three 
onflils of the sauce that is too thin, and a piece 
T the size of a pigeon's egg ; then take the sauce 
i fire, pour the misture in it, little by little, stir- 
the time; when the whole is in, put back on the 
three or four minutes, but do not allow it to boil ; 
ay and use. When too thick, add broth, 
"mande.—Cho^ fine and fly in butter four or five 
3ms ; then add a little fioiu*, and four or five table- 
Is of broth ; reduce it to a sauce ; put a piece of 
he size of an egg in it, also a sprig of white pars- 
pped fine, one of thyme, a-clove, a bay-leaf, a 
' garlic, a little nutnt^ grated fine, the juice of a 



SAUCES. 99 

uarter of a lemon, and three well-beaten yolks, of eggs ; 
oil two or three minutes, and use. If found too thick, 
dd a little broth. 

Anchovy Butter. — Strain essence of anchovy through 
fine sieve, and knead it with fresh butter, or salt butter 
lat you have kneaded in cold water previously, and it is 
jady for use. 

Anchovy Sauce, — Use butter without salt; if salty, 
'ork it in cold water. Set three ounces of butter in a 
mcepan on the fire, and melt it slowly ; then add about 
svo teaspoonfuls of essenc"^ of anchovy ; stir a few sec- 
nds, and it is done. More anchovy may be used if 
ked. It is served in a boat. 

Apple, — ^Peel, quarter, and core four or six apples, 
ud set them on the fire in a small saucepan, with two 
ablespoonfdls of water; stir now and then till done ; when 
one, maah through a fine colander ; add a little sugar, 
nd it is ready for use. 

If found too thin, keep on the fire for some time. If 
oo thick, add a little water. 

Cravherry. — Put a quart of cranberries in a saucepan 
nd set it on a rather slow fire ; stir occasionally till 
lone ; mash gently through a fine colander, or through a 
trainer ; add a Httle sugar, and use. 

Currant. — Proceed as for a cranberry-sauce in every 
►articular, except that it must be mashed through a 
trainer or through a towel. 

Peachx — Stone about a quart of peaches, and proceed 
s for apple-sauce for the rest. 

Raspberry. — Made the same as currant-sauce. 

The five sauces above are served with ro3feted game. 

Bechamel, — Mix cold, and well together, in a tin 
aucepan, two ounces of butter and a tablespo~onful of 



100 8AIJCB8. 

flour ; then add a pint of milk, and set on tbe 
slir coDtdnaallj', and when tumiag ratlter thick, taki 
heat a yolk of egg in a cup with a teaspoonful of w 
turn it into the Bance, and mix well again ; salt and i 
pepper to taste, and it is ready for use. 

Blonde. — Proceed exactly as for whit« saace, i 
broth instead of water. 

Bread. — Take the soft part of half a ten^cSnt lo 
bread ; break it in piocea, which put in a saucepan 
a quart of good fresK milk, sis peppei>corns chopped 
and a little salt; set on the fire and boil five oi 
minutes, stirring the while ; take off, mash thronj 
strainer or a sieve, and it is ready for use. 

A hread-sauoe is really a very poor saace. Ita 
pidity is coneealed by the great amount of pepper tl 
contains. 

Brown Butter, or BeuTre Jfoir. — This is butter s 
the fire in a frying-pan and left till it turns perfectly bi 
then a few sprigs- of parsley are dropped in it, fried 1 
minute, and it is ready for nse. 

It is sometimes used with vinegar, but in that c, 
is described in the receipts. 

Caper. — Mix well together, cold, in a smfdl sauci 
two onnees of butter and a tablespoonful of flour ; 
add a pint of broth, set on the fire, stir, and when thl 
■ ing, add capers to taste, whole or chopped ; give an 
hoil, take from the fire, add salt, the yolk of an 
beaten with a teaspoonfhl of water, mix and serve. 

Celery. — ^Proceed as for a caper-sauce in every pa 
lar except .that you add three or four stalks of c 
chopped fine, and then boil ten or twelve minutee 
str^n it before using. 

Colbert. — Set half a pint of meat gravy on the fi 



SAUCES. 101 

nail saucepan with half a dozen mnshrooms and one 
two truffles chopped fine (the latter, if handy), boil 
tly hvG minutes, add one ounce of butter, stir, and 
m the butter is melted and mixed with the rest, it is 
iy for use. 
Coulis of Fishy or Fish Oravy^ is one and the same 

Boil hard four eggs, and put the yolks in a mortar. 
IB a pike weighing about two pounds, clean,. prepare, 
[ broil it as directed ; split it open, take all the bones 
L skin off,- put the flesh in the mortar with the yolks, 
I pound the whole, and knead it with a little butter, 
.ce a little butter, of the size of a walnut, Iq a stewpan, 
L set it on a good fire ; when melted, fiy in it till of a 
den color, two carrots and two onions cut in slices; 
3r that add also a piece of bay-leaf, two sprigs of pars- 
, one of thyme, a little isinglass, the eggs and fish, 
I cover with water ; simmer gently about one hour and 
alf, and strain. 

If found too thin after it is strained, set it back on the 
I, add a little more isinglass, and simmer fifteen minutes 
ger. 

Coulis of FeaZ.— Place in a stewpan about one pound 
veal, fillet or knuckle, with four ounces of bacon, not 
oked, and* cut fine ; also a carrot cut fine, a little pep- 
r, and grated nutmeg ; set on a slow fire, cover well ; 
f an hour after* augment the fire, and as soon as you 
i the meat stickij^g to the pan, subdue it, leave it so ten 
nutes, then take irom the fire, put the bacon, veal, and 
Tot on a dish ; put butter about the size of an egg in 
> pan ; when melted, sprinkle in it a teaspoonful of 
or, stir with a wooden spoon, then put the n^eat back 
it Cover with warm broth and set on a slow fire for 



102 SAUCES. 

about two hours ; take oflf, throw in it a few drops of cold 
water, ^kim off the fat, strain, and .use. 

Cream, — ^A cream-sauce is a Bechamel made with 
cream instead of milk. 

It is often called a la creme, its French name. 

Cucumber, — ^Proceed as for caper-sauce, using picWed 
cucumbers, chopped fine, instead of capers. 

JEgg, — ^Proceed as for caper-sauce in every particular, 
except that you use two hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine, 
instead of capers. 

Diplomat. — ^Make a cream-sauce with one pint of 
cream. When made, put in it nearly half a pound of lob- 
ster butter, stir, and when the whole is well mixed, add 
also about a tablespoonful of essence of anchovy and mix 
again ; pepper to taste, and use. 

It is a rich sauce, used with boiled fish and baked or 
roasted meat. 

Sspagnole, — ^This sauce is very seldom made in the 
kitchen of a family, excej)t of a large and wealthy family, 
being a rather expensive one. In the kitchen of a fami- 
ly, gravy or even broth is used in its stead ; but, when 
preparing an extra dinner, it should be made, and a little 
of it used in all the brown sauces, either for meat, fish, or 
vegetables. • 

Spread about half a pound of butter in the bottom of 
a stewpan, lay in it lean ham and veal, partridge, wild 
rabbit, pheasant, or fowl of any kind,«about four ounces 
of each, a small carrot cut in dice, one. onion with a clove 
stuck in it, half a turnip, and a sprig of thyme ; cover 
the pan and set it on the fire ; let it simmer till reduced to 
a jelly, then mix in it two tablespoonfuls of flour, a wine- 
glass of white wine, cover with broth, add salt, pepper, a 
clove of garlic, a sprig of parsley, one clove, a bay-lea^ 



SAUCES. 103 

d two muBhrooms cut in pieces ; simmer from three to 
IT hours, sMm off the scum as soon as it comes on the 
rface ; when done, take it from the fire, throw a few 
3ps of cold water in, and sldm off the fat, then strain 
d use. 

It will keep for some time if kept air-tight in a pot or 
ttle, and in a cool, dry place. 

Essence of Spinage, or Spinach, — Soak in water, drain, 
y, and pound well two or three handfuls of spinach, put 
3m in a coarse towel and press the juice out, put it in a 
n on a moderate fire, and when nearly boiling, take it 
', strain, and add to it a little fine-crushed sugar, stir a 
tie, and bottle when cold ; it may be kept for months ; 
e it where directed. 

Sauce for every kind of Fish, boiled ^ baked, or roasted, 
•Boil hard two eggs, take the yolks and pound them 
5II, and place them in a bowl. Have boiling water on 
e fire, and pnt in it cives, bumet, chervil, tarragon, and 
rsley, four or five sprigs of each ; boil five minutes, take 
F, drain and pound them well, then strain them on the 
gs, add two tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar, two of 
ench mustard, salt, pepper, and four tablespoonfuls of 
eet-oil, which you pour in, little by little, at the same 
ne mixing the whole well with a boxwood spoon, and it 
ready for use. 

Fines Herbes, — Chop very fine a small handful of 
irsley, shallots, and chives ; and proceed as for making a 
per-sauce, except that you use the chopped spices in- 
5ad of capers. 

Genoise, — Put two ounces of butter in a small sauce- 
m, set it on the fire, and when meltejj, mix in it a table- 
>oonful of flour ; stir for one minute, add one-fourth of 
carrot, sliced, stir now and then, and when nearly fried. 



ilao a pint of brotb, half a pint of claret wine, s 
onion, and a clove of garlic, chopped ; two cloves, a 
caf, two stalks of paraley, one of thyme, salt, and 
ir ; boil gently about one hour and forty minutes, and 
1. If it boils awaj-, add a little broth. Put it back 
e fire with about half an ounce of butter, boil gently 
)Ottt ten minutes, and it is ready for nse. 
"his sauce is excellent with any kind of boiled fish, 
specially with trout, pike, and pickerel. 
L trout served with a genoke sauce is considered a 
'cke dish. 

lollandaise. — Set one ounce of butter on the fire in a 
pan, and when melted, add half a tablespoonful of 
stH, and when turning rather yellow, add half a pint 
ith, stir for one mioate ; add also four sprigs of pars- 
ad four mushrooms chopped fine (one truffle sliced, 
adj, would be excellent), a liquor-glass of Madeira, 
or Sherrj" nine ; boil gently ten minutes, sUrriog 
■hile, and serce. 

jiditm. — This sauce may be used with fish, in summer 
n Bouthem places. 

lave a stewpan on a moderate fire, with two oances 
utter in it ; when melted, add a teaspoonful of 
nto, salt, a pinch of safiion, and one of grated nut- 
also one and a half tablespoon fuls of flour — the latter 
sprinkle in, little by little, stirring the while; cover 
brotb, boil twelve minutes and strain ; afterward add 
)unces of butter, stir a little, and use. 
talian. — Tie together two sprigs of parsley, one of 
e, and a bay-leaf; put them in a stewpan with two 
iree mushrooms cut fine, one shallot, a small onion 
a clove stuck in it, a piece of butter the size of a 
it, and hfdf a pint of white wine ; set on a gentle fire, 



SAUCES. 105 

id reduce it half; then add about one tablespoonful of 
ive-oil and half a pint of broth, simmer forty minutes, 
rain, and use. 

Lobster, — Chop very fine or pound some of the flesh 
' a boiled lobster. Make a white or blonde sauce, and 
steafl of taking it from the fire when done, turn the 
topped flesh into it with* a little piece of butter ; stir, 
ve one boil, and it is ready for use. 

CraW'Jish^ prawn^ shrimp, and crab sauces are made 
le same as lobster sauce. 

Madeira, — Mix cold in a saucepan two ounces of but- 
r with a tablespoonful of flour, set on the fire and stir till 
turns rather brown ; when add nearly a pint of gravy, 
ir till it is becoming thick; then add half a pint of Ma- 
sira wine, little by little, stirring the while, give one boil 
ily, salt to taste, and theff strain and use. 

CTiampagne sauce is made in the same way, except that 
must be poured in faster and used immediately. 

All wine sauces may be made in the same way. We 
lean wine sauces for meat or fish. 

Maitre cTIToteL — ^This sauce is sometimes called butter 
iaitre cP hotel. Mix and knead well together in a bowl, 
wo ounces of butter, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley 
Dd the juice of a half lemon ; salt to taste and use. 

Pepper, grated nutmeg, and chopped chives, may be 
dded if liked. Using vinegar instead of lemon-juice 
lakes an inferior sauce. 

Mayonnaise. — ^In warm weather it is necessary to put 
lie bowl on ice while making it Put one or two yolks 
f fresh eggs in a bowl with a small pinch of salt ; com- 
lence stirring with a box-wood spoon, or, what is stiU bet- 
3r, a stone or marble pestle. Stir without interruption, 
Iways in the same way and describing a circle. It is 
6* 



easily done if the bowl is held steady. After having 
d about half a minute, commence pouring the oil in, 
by drop, and as soon as you see that it is thickening 
f well, add also a few drops of vinegar and same of 
]-jaice ; then continue with the oil in the same way. 
r time that it becomes too thick, add a. little Alegar, 
ontinue stirring. You p«t as much oil as you please ; 
bottles of oil might be used and it would atill be 
. Spread it on chicken salad, etc 
''artar. — Chop some capers and sballota very fine, mix 

well with a mat/onrtaise when made, and yon have a 

ftithTOom. — ^Proceed exactly as for cape^sauce, using 
ped mnsbrooms instead of capers. 
'iqwmte. — Take a small saucepan and set it on the 
lith two ounces of butter in it, and when melted add 
ill onion chopped ; stir, and when nearly fried add a 
jpoonfal of flour, stir, and when turning rather brown, 
lalf a pint of broth, salt, pepper, a pickled cucnmber 
ped, four stalks of parsley, also chopped, and mos- 
; boil gently about ten minutes, add a teaspoonliil of 
;ar ; give one boil, and serve. 
Inotker woy.,— Set the chopped onion on the fire with 
fill of vinegar, and boil gently till the vinegar is en- 
absorbed, or boiled away. Make the same saace as ■ 
i in another pan, omitting the onion and vin^ar, and 
I done mix the two together, and it is ready for use. 
Inotho'. — Add three shallots, chopped fine, to the 
ped onion, and proceed as above for the rest. 
^arisienne. — Make a bunch of seasonings with six 
9 of parsley, one of thyme, a bay-leaf, and two cloves ; 
t in a saucepan with half a pint of chopped truffles, 
ibout a pint of white wine ; set on the fire and boU 



SAUCES. 107 

gently till about half reduced, strain, put back on the 
ire, turn into it, little by little, stirring the while, nearly a 
>int of gravy or consomme ; continue stiiring'now and 
hen till it begins to turn rather thick, add pepper to 
aste, strain, and use with fish and game. 

Poivrade, — ^Put a piece of butter the size of an egg in 
k stewpan, and set it on the fire ; when melted, sprinkle 
n it, little by little, about a tablespoonfiil of flour, stirring 
he while ; when of a proper thickness, and of a brownish 
solor, take firom the fire, add a tablespoonful of vinegar, 
\ wine-glass of claret wine, a glass of broth, a shallot cut 
Q two, a middling-sized onion, also cut in two, with a 
love stuck in each piece, a sprig of thyme, one of pars- 
ey, a bay-leaf, a clove o^ garlic, a little salt, and two pep- 
)er-coms ; boil about twenty minutes, strain and use. 

The vinegar, shallot, and onion may be boiled feeparate- 
y as for a piquante sauce. • ' 

Polonaise, — Put four ounces of butter in a saucepan 
m the fire, and when melted add two or three tablespoon- 
uls of the soft part of bread, bruised in a coarse towel ;• 
itir for about one minute, salt to taste, and use. 

Like the Parisienne, it is used with game. 

Pouhtte, — Set a stewpan on the fire with a piece of 
gutter the size of an egg in it ; when melted, sprinkle in 
t a tablespoonfiil of flour, stirring the while ; pour gently 
n it also, and little by little, a glass of warm water, and a 
fvine-glass.of white wine, or broth instead of both, salt, 
jepper, a sprig of parsley, one of thyme, a bay-leaf, a 
chopped shallot, a little nutmeg, four small white onions, 
md two or three jnushrooms (the latter cut fine and fried 
n butter before using them) ; simmer till the whole is well 
looked, strain and use. 

In case it should be found too light, add when done, 



^'Jl 



>efore taking from the fire, two or three yolks of 

Hid the juice of a lemon. 

I -incisae. — Make a cream-sauce with one pint of ■ 

I and Bet it on a moderate fire; immediately turn 

y%, stirriDg the while, about half a pint of reduced, 

I'jneat gravy; when thoroughly miied, add two or 

f ^^'I'l'^B^ *^^ butter, stir for a couple of minutes longer, 

and use immediately. 

a very rich sauce, used with boiled fish' and 
)r baked meat, 

•mpale. — Chop fine two or three mushrooms, ftnd 
lallota ; pnt the whole in a stewpan with a clove of 
and two tablespoonfuls of olive-oil ; set on a mod- 
id leaye till half fried ; then sprinkle in it half 
loonful of flour, Btirring the while ; add also half a 
white wine, and as raach broth, and two small 
two sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, half a bay- 
i and pepper ; simmer about half an hour, take 
c fire, and a few minutes sAej sHm oS the fat; 
t the garlic, onions, parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, 
; then ready for immediate use. 
iffote. — Chop fine, and in equal proportion, two 
loonfuls of chervil, tarragon, and pepper-grtUs, also, 
t proportion, one teaspoonful of bumet and table 
place the whole in a stewpan with salt and pep- 
rer with- broth, set on the fire, and boil twenty 
; after which take from the fire, and str^n. Mix 
lccs of butter with flour enough to m^e a paste, 
with the sauce on the fire, add a tablespoonfiil of 
immer till of a proper thickness, and use. 
ibert. — Put about four onncea of butter in a stew- 
it on a moderate fire ; when melted, sprinkle in it 
tablespoonful of floor, atlrriDg the while ; when 



SAUCES. 109 

f a brownish color, add three small onions chopped fine, 
alt, and pepper ; stir, and leave on the fire till the whole 
s turning brown, then add a glass of broth, boil about 
hirty minutes, and strain ; mix well in a cup one tea- 
poonful of vinegar, one of sugar, and one of mustard, 
vbicb mix again with the sauce, and it is ready to be 
ised. 

Memolade. — Chop very fine a small handful of chervil, 
arragon, and bumet, in equal proportion, and put them 
n a saucer or boat ; add salt, pepper, nutmeg grated, and 
nustard, to taste ; also one or two hard-boiled eggs cut in 
lice ; mix the whole gently and well ; then add the vine- 
gar, and lastly the oil. The two latter ones are put in 
ittle by little, stirring gently the while. Serve as it is. 

Another, — ^Proceed as for the above, except that you 
3hop fine with the chervil, etc., some parsley, shallot, and 
Tarlic ; the five spices in equal proportion. 

When finished, add also a pinch of sugar. 

jRoz^a?.— Set a small saucepan on a moderate fire, with 
two oimces of butter in it ; sprinkle into it, when melted, a ^ 
tablespoonful of flour ; stir, and when turning brown, use. 

Shallot, — Chop the shallots, and proceed as for caper- 
sauce, using them instead of capers. 

Souhise, — ^Put about half a pint of good meat gravy 
in a saucepan ; set it on the fire, and when boiling add 
half a, gill of Madeira wine ; when well mixed, add also 
two or three tablespoonfuls of puree of white onions, 
salt, and pepper ; boil five minutes, stirring now and then, 
and it is made. 

A souhise is an excellent sauce for baked or boiled fish, 
also for roasted meat. 

Supreme, — This sauce is made in several ways. We 
will give here the three principal ones : 






110 • BAUOES. 

1. Make an AUemande sauce ; and when done, add to it 
two ounces of butter and half a gill of eonsomme; Estir 
and mix, and place on a brisk fire to start it boiling at 
once ; take it from the fire as soon as it becomes thick ; 
then add a few drops of lemon-juice, and use. 

2. Make a roux; add to it about half a pint of chicken 
gravy ^ stir or boil five or six minutes ; then add two 
ounces of butter, the juice of a lemon, a pinch of parsley 
chopped fine ; give one boil, and use. 

3. This is made like No. 2, except that you use an 
AUemande sauce instead of a roux^ and besides the pint 
of chicken gravy, etc., you add also half a giJl of white 
wine. 

It is used especially with roasted chicken and game. 

Tomato, — ^If you use fresh tomatoes, blanch them first ; 
if preserved, use them as they are in the can. Put one 
pint of tomatoes in a saucepan with a small onion and a 
clove of garlic sliced ; also two stalks of parsley, one of 
thyme, a bay-leaf, one clove, six pepper-corns, and salt; 
boil gently till reduced about one-third, when mash gently 
through a strainer or sieve ; all the tomato-seed and sea- 
sohwgs must remain in the strainer ; • put back on the fire, 
with'ti little piece of butter ; give one boil, and it is done. 

Tfuffle, — ^This sauce is made like a caper-sauce, using 
chopped or sliced trufiles instead of capers. 

Velonte, — ^This and gravy is nearly the same thing. 
It is gravy made as directed for gravy, with the addition 
of a dozen mushrooms chopped fine; and is used for 
saupes, like gravy, to malce sauces richer than with 4)roth. 

Vinaigrette. — ^Put salt and pepper in a saucer (and 
mustard, if it is to be used with butcher's meat ; but with 
fish, chicken, or birds, it is really too strong ; it neutralizes 
the delicate flavor of the object), and pour vinegar over, 



SAUCSS. Ill 

ittie by little, beating with a fork at the same time ; then 
30ur the oil, also little by little, and while beating; a 
ittle chopped parsley is also addetl ; and serve with cold 
meat, fish, or vegetables. 

It is quickly made, is good, and makes an excellent 
lish for breakfast, served as we said above. 

White, — ^Put two ounces of butter in a small sauce- 
pan and set it on the fire, stir a little, and as soon as 
melted, remove on a rather slow fire ; add a tablespoonfiil 
3f flour, stir continually till thoroughly mixed (two or 
}hree minutes) ; then add again about a pint of boiling 
tvater, pouring gently, and stirring the while, take oft* 
when it begins to turn thick ; add a yolk of egg beaten 
m\h. a teaspoonful of cold water, mix it well with the 
rest and it is ready for use ; after having mixed, also salt 
and white pepper to taste. 

Oyster. — Add to a white sauce some oysters blanched ; 
then stir and mix with the whole the juice of half a lemon. 

Muscle, — ^Boil the muscles about one minute and make 
is oyster-sauce. 

SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 

MiCk, — Put in a block-tin saucepan four tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, one of flour, four yolks of eggs, one pint of 
milk ; essence to flavor, and mix the Vhole well ; set on a 
good but not sharp fire, stir continually till it begins to 
become rather thick ; take off", turn over the pudding, and 
serve. 

Madeira, — Set a saucepan on the fire with one ounce 
of butter in it ; as soon as melted, add half a tablespoonful 
of flour, stir till it turns rather yellow, and add also one 
pint of water, four ounces of sugar, and a few drops of 
burnt sugar; boil gently, about twenty-five minuter; add 



) ^11 of Madeira wine, boil again ten minatcs, and 
a boat. 

n. — Proceed as for Madeirarsauce, except yoa use 
iU of rum instead of Madeira. 
•ndy. — Proceed as for rum-aauce, using the same 
ion of brandr. 



FAECES AND GARNITUEES, 

JALLED ALSO GARNISH AND GARNISHING, USED TO 
DECORATE OR ORNAMENT DISHES. 



With JBread. — ^Put in a tureen about a pound of the 
oft part of bread, and cover with broth ; when it has ab- 
orbed the broth, place it in a stewpan, set it on a slow 
ice, and leave till it becomes a thick paste ; stir now and 
hen, then mix well with it three yolks of eggs, and it is 
eady for use. 

With Cabbage. — ^Throw into boiling wat^r a little salt 
nd a middling-sized cabbage ; boil it half an hour, take 
b from the^ettle with a skimmer, throw it in cold water, 
nd drain it, pressing it a little in the drainer to force the 
rater out ; cut off the stump, and chop the cabbage fine, 
lave in a stewpan on the fire, three or four ounces of fresh 
•utter ; put the cabbage in when the butter is half melted, 
prinkling on while stirring a teaspoonful of flour ; pour 
n it, little by little, some broth, stirring the while, and 
^hen it has a fine brownish color, wet with broth enough 
3 boil it ; season with salt, a little grated nutmeg, and 
)ur pepper-corns ; boil gently till the sauce is thick enough, 
ike away the pepper-corns, and use. 

With Combs of Chicken. — Soak the combs over night 
1 cold water, and then clean them well by wiping roughly 



FABCES AND OABSTTIIBES. 

coarse towel, wetted and saltp.d; wash and drain 
put a dozen of them in a saucepan with two sweet- 
bianelied, cover the whole wiih broth, and boil till 
then add salt, pepper, a few drops of lemon-juice, 
ia ready for use.' 

Ith Caulifioteers. — ^Proceed as for cabbage in every 
lar, except that it does not require as long doing. 
Ith Croutons. — Cut pieces of soft part of stale bread 
irent shapes, and fly them on both sides in butter 

r potage, they are 'cut in dice, but for decorating 
they are cut either round, square, oblong, or of a 
jtar-lite, half moon, butterfly, or flower shape, and 
sne-qaartcr of an inch thick. Take them off with 
mer, and turn into a colander to drain. 



n^ 



e cut d is used for potage, and a, b, c, etc., aro naed 

irate. 

ucelle. — Mate a fines-herh^ sauce, and when ready 

ised, add half a gill of gravy, and ^ve one boil ; add 

'o or three yolks of eggs, simmer one minute, and 

ishrooms, whole or in slices, may be added at the 
ime the yolks of eggs are added. 



FASOES AND OAlBNTrUBES. 115 

With Egg8, — ^Mash and mix well together six hard- 
>oiled yolks of e^s with three yolks not cooked, salt 
md pepper. Put the mixture in parts on the paste-board, 
svhich must be previously dusted with flour ; roll each 
part and give it the shape of a small egg (a pigeon's ^gg 
3r a little larger). When the whole is thus prepared, drop 
in boiling water, boil till cooked, and use to decorate meat 
or fish. 

Finandere, — ^A garniture financiere is the . same as a 
garniture with combs of chicken, to which arc added some 
mushrooms and truffles, both cut in slices. 

It is generally served with a roast chicken. 

With Livers, — Geese livers are the best, being the fat- 
test. Drop two geese livers in boiling water and a little 
salt, boil three minutes and drain. Put in a saucepan one 
gill of broth, same of white wine, Sauteme or Catawba, a 
tablespoonfiil of gravy, six pepper-corns, two or three stalks 
of parsley, salt, and the livers; set on the fire and boil 
gently for about twenty-five minutes. Take off the livers, 
boil a few minutes longer to thicken the sauce, turn it over 
the livers through a strainer, and it is ready. 

The same may be done with the livers of poultry or any 
other kind of birds ; the seasonings are the same, and the 
proportion is according to the size or to l3ie number of 
livers. 

Besides being used as garnishing, it may be served as 
a breakfast dish. 

Macedoine, — Blanch a dozen of Brussels cabbages. 
Blanch also half a dozen asparagus cut in pieces about ajx 
inch long. Put four ounces of butter in a saucepan on 
the fire, and when melted put it into a gill of carrots, same 
of turnips, both cut with a vegetable spoon, also a dozen 
small onions ; stir now and then till the whole is about 



FABOSB AND GASNTTUBES. 

done, when add a little over a pint of brotb and the 
sels cabbies; boil about ten minutea. Then add 
1 the blanched aaparagOs, half a dozen mnshrooniB, 
1 juBt enough to cover the whole, eimmer till every 
r is done, salt and pepper to taste, a pinch of sngar, 
it is ready for use. 

iV^ater may bo used iuetsad of broth, but is inferior. 
V macedome may be served with any meat — roasted, 
:d, or broiled. 

With Mushroom. — Chop fine half a pint of fresh 
iroons and two tablespoonfula of parsley. Set a 
epan on the fire with two ounces of fat grated salt 
: in it, as much butter, and as soon as the butter is 
ed put the mushrooms and parsley in ; sea^tn with 
pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and a quarter of a pint 
rhite wine ; let boil gently tUl reduced ^o a jelly, and 

^hen done, three or four yolks of e;^ may be mixed 
it 

With Oniont. — Pot a dozen onions in a crockery 
epan and half cover them with broth. Cover the pui 

ell sa poaaible, simmer till cooked, when add a tea- 
inful of sugar, salt, simmer again for aboat ten min- 
, basting how and then, and serve warm with bee^ 

Quenelles. — Chop fine one pound of fresh veal, half 
and half fat — the fat nearest the kidney is the best; 
pound it well and mash it through a sieve. Mix two 
a of eggs with it, and season to taste with salt, pep- 
nutmeg grated, and powdered cinnattion. Spread 
r on the paste-board, pot a teaspoonfnl of meat here 
there ; roll gently each port into small balls, using as 
I floor as possible. They may also be rolled of an 



FABCES AND GAKNTTUEES. 117 

olive shape* Throw the balls into boiling broth or boiling 
water at the first boiling, boil five minutes and drain. As 
soon as cold they are ready for use. 

Boulettes, fricadelles, godiveau, and quenelles are one 
and the same thing. 

Whole egga may be used instead of the yolks only, 
add also a few bread-crumbs. To the seasonings above 
some parsley chopped fine may be added. 

Make quenelles with any kind of meat — ^butcher's meat, 
poultry, and game, also with fish well boned. 

To the lean meat add the same weight of fat veal, as 
above directed, or, in its stead, beef suet. 

Truffles or mushrooms, or both, may be added to the 
mixture, either of meat or of fish. 

QtieneUes are used for garnitures, etc. They may be 
fried instead of boiled. 

Salpic<m,''~Out in dice an equal quantity of each, and 
to weigh altogether about one pound and a half, calf 
sweetbreads, livers, or flesh of fowls, and ham — ^three 
kinds in all; also two mushrooms and two truffles; all 
must be nearly cooked in water beforehand. Put them in 
a stewpan, season with salt, pepper, a bay-leaf, a clove of 
garlic, an onion, a sprig of parsley, and one of thyme ; 
cover with half a pint of broth," and as much of white 
wine ; set on a slow fire ; it must not boil, but simmer 
gently ; stir now and then till the whole is well cooked ; 
take out the bay-leaf, onion, garlic, parsley, and thjnne. In 
case the sauce should not be thick enough, add a little 
fecula, stir, and leave awhile longer on the fire, and it is 
ready for use. 

With Truffles, — Slice the truffles and put them in a 
saucepan with a pinch of sugar, broth and claret wine 
enough to cover them, half of each, simmer for about 



FABCBS AHD OAamitlBES. 

inutes, add a little potato starch, boil gently till 
to thicken, and use. 

%r Butter. — Put the flesh of the two large clawa 
ed lobster with a httlo of the ioside, abont a 
ntiil, in a mortal and pound well Add about 
volume of good butter aud pound again till the 
well mixed. It ia then mashed through a fine 

b ready for use. When the lobster has coral, it U 
with the rest, and gives a fine color to the batter. 
! lobstSr has no coral, a piece of the reddest part 
ell ia pounded with the rest, when tho Imtter ia 
Dred. 

butter may bo used instead of ordinary butter 
auees, or for making a maltre d'k6ul for boiled 
IT gamiehing the same. 

lari^ it, just put the butter into a bowl when 
t the bowl in a boiling baiiMnarie for about half 
take off and immediately turn it through a cloth 
•wl half full of cold water. The' cloth must be 
isted, to cause the butter to mn tiirough. When 
le bowl, Btjr it till rather hard ; work it in a ball, 

it dry. 

clarified it is finer than when used merely mixed. 

ame butter may be made, and in the same way, 

o-fak, prawns, and thrimpi. 

e-radish Butter. — Grate some horse-radish and 

ill with about the same volume of butter, mash 

% »eve. and it b ready for use. 

iffon and garlic butter ace made as tho above. 

3 butter be found too strong, nso more butter aad 

irlic, etc 

jole Butter (called also Beurre dt MontpelUer). — 

Jie following spices: parsley, tarragon, chives. 



FASOEB ASD GLABNITUBES. 119 

di: — ^parsley and cheryil in eqnal proportion and about 
as much of the two others, about two handfuls alto- 
er — drain diy and put them in a mortar with two 
ovies boned, one shallot chopped and bruised in a 
se towel, half a dozen capers, a rather small piece of 
led cucumber, four ounces of butter, two hard-boiled 
s of eggs, and the juice of half a lemon. Pound the 
le well together, then add a tablespoonful of essence 
pinach, mix well, mash through a sieye, and use. 
This butter is excellent to decorate and to eat with cold 

It is sometimes used with cold birds. 
Wttzelrnut Butter. — Pound some hazel-nuts or filberts 
then mix throtghly with good butter, mash through 
ve, and use as ordinary butter. The proportion ac- 
ing to taste. It is easily prepared, and is delicious. 
Do the same with pea-nuts^ or any other nut. 
Welted Butter, — Put butter in a crockery vessel and 
5 it above a pan of water or some other liquid, heated 
not boiling, so that the butter will melt slowly and 
nally. Sometimes the butter may be wanted soft only, 
hat is called melted soft, or thoroughly melted. It is 
to obtain those different states above with heated 
)r, and the butter, though melted, is more firm than 
Q melted on the fire. 

Scented Butter. — ^Whenever a certain flavor is desired 
. butter, put a piece of firm and good butter in a bowl 
I a few drops of essence, knead well, and then mash 
ugh a sieve. 

* PURINES. 

Purees are made with vegetables, but- when the flesh 
oultry or other birds is mashed through a sieve after 
g cooked, it is sometimes called a puree also. 



120 FARCES ANJ> aAENITlTEES. 

The bones of a ham, after the flesh is disposed of, is 
the most excellent thing you can put with the vegetables 
to boil them in order to make purees. 

One-third of the bones of a middling-sized ham is 
enough for about a quart of regetables. 

When vou have no ham bones, use four ounces of 
good salt pork, as lean- as possible ; but never use smoked 
pork, it gives a disagreeable taste to the puree. 

Of Dry BeanSj white or colored, Kidney, Lima, or any 
other kind. — ^Dry beans must be soaked in cold water, or 
even in lukewarm water, when in a hurry. According to 
the nature of the beans, they must be soaked for from six 
to twenty-four hours. " 

Soak a quart of beans as directed above ; drain and put 
them in a saucepan with one-third of the bones of a ham, 
or about four ounces of salt pork ; cover with cold water, 
season with a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, two of parsley, 
two middling-sized onions, with two cloves stuck in them, 
and a carrot cut in pieces ; when the whole is well cooked, 
throw away thyme, bay-leaf, onions, and cloves ; mash well 
through a* colander all the rest except the bacon. 

While mashing them through the colander, wet them 
with some of the water in which they have boiled, else it 
would be difficult and long. 

When mashed, put them in a saucepan with a little 
broth or water, salt, and two ounces of butter ; stir now 
and then till the butter is melted and thoroughly mixed 
with the rest, and it is ready for use. The quantity of 
broth or water is according to iiow thick or thin they 
are wanted. The salt pork is good tb eat. • 

Of Lentils. — It is made in the same way as that of 
beans, except that they do not require to be soaked more 
than five or six hours in cold water. 



FABGES AND aASNTTUBES. 121 

Of Peas {dry or split). — ^Proceed as for lentils in 
ry particular* 

Of Chestnuts. — ^Remove the skin of a quart of chest- 
3 and drop them in boiling water, with a little salt As 
1 as the under skin comes off easily, take them from 
fire, drain, drop them in cold water, and then remove 

under or white skin; put them in a saucepan with 
ut one quart of broth, set on the fire and boil gently 
well done, and mash through a colander. * 

Then put the chestnuts, and what is left of the broth, 
. saucepan, set on the fire, stir, add a pinch of sugar 

an ounce of butter ; give one boil, and it is made. 
Of Green, Peas, — Wash a quart of green peas in cold 
er, and drain ; put two quarts of cold water on the fire 
, saucepan, with a little salt, 'and at the first boil throw 
peas in, season with three or four sprigs .of parsley, 

of thyme, two onions, and two cloves, a carrot in 
)s, salt, and pepper ; boil till tender. It may take only 
minutes, or it may require half an hour, according to 
' tender the peas are. 

Mash through a colander, and finish like pur^ of 
IS, using either broth or water. With broth it is 
er and better. 

Of lAma Beans. — ^Proceed for green Limas as for 
m peas. 

Of Sweet Com. — ^It is made like that of green peas. 
Of Aspara>gus.-^^\ii the eatable part of the aspaijigus 
ieces, and proceed as ion puree oi green peas. 
Of Potatoes. — Steam a quart of potatoes, and then 
h them well ; put them in a saucepan with half a pint 
nilk, two ounces of butter, and salt ; set on the fire, 
now and then, take off and use. It takes about fifteen 
utes after bemg set back on the fire. 

6 



122 FABOKB ASD OABMinjBBB. 

Another vay, — Proceed as above, udiig broth 
instead of milk. 

0/Jerutalem Artichokes. — Prepared as potal 
Of Carrots. — Clean well, and cut' in slices, 
middling-sized carrob^ put them in a stewpsn ' 
onitceB of bnttei, and set on the fire; when ah 
fried, cover with broth or water; season with ha 
lea( a small sprig of thyme, one of parsley, a smi 
ard a clove stack in it ; when the whole is well 
throw away onion, clove, bay-lea^ and thyme, i 
rest through a colander ; then pat back on the fit 
little butter ; simmer for about two hoora, sliin 
sionally, and it is made. 

In case it should turn too ttuck, add broth or 
The longer they are simmered, the better the 
Of Turnips. — Proceed as with carrots in ei 

Of Celery. — It is always made with tnrai 
celery. Gean the celery well, wash and cot it i 
and prepare as pur^ of carrots, adding a teaspc 

Of Caulifiotoers. — Separate the branches, ai 
them in boiling water and salt; boO two mih 
drain. Put them on the fire with broth or watei 
just to cover them, two or three stalka of parsley 
to season. 

Boil gently till tender; remove the paisl^ 
through a colander ; put back on the fiie with a 1 
ter and white pepper, simmer about ten minutes 
now and then the while, and it is ready for use. 

Instead of bntt«r, some cream may be added. 

Cff Pumpkin, — Jdade exactly the same as that 
flowers, after the pompkiit is peeled and cut in pi 



FASOES AND GABNTTUSES. 123 

Of Squash. — Same as pampldn. 
Of Spinach, — Clean the spinach, and cut off the stem ; 
leaf only is good ; wash and drain it ; pnt cold water 
a little salt on the fire, and throw the spinach in at 
Srst boiL When tender, drain and drop immediately 
old water; drain again, and then chop it very fine, 
r being chopped, it may be mashed through a sieve, 
Ave it finer ; put it back on the fire without any water 
I, and when it gets rather dry, add a little flour ; stir 
mix; add again a little gravy or good broth; stir, 
salt to taste,' and it is ready for use. 
[f the spinach is young and tender, it takes only two 
iree minutes boiling before chopping it. 
5Vom the time it is put back on the fire, it takes about 
or six minutes to finish it. 
Of Sorrel, — ^Proceed as with spinach in every particu- 

If Mushrooms, — Clean well and cut in pieces'a quart 
esh mushrooms ; soak them in cold water, in which 
have put the juice of a lemon ; drain, and chop them 
Put a stewpan on the fire, with a piece of butter 
lize of a- duck^s egg ; when melted, put your mush- 
la in ; when half fried, add the juice of a lemon, finish 
g, then cover with some roux-sauce ; let simmer till 
comes rather thick, strain and use. 
y Onions, — ^Peel, quarter, and blanch for eight min- 

a dozen onions. Drain and put them in a saucepan 

four or six ounces of butter, according to the size of 
mions ; set on a slow fire, stir now and then till well 

; then season with salt, a little flour, stir for two 
ites to cook the flour, and mix it thoroughly with the 

take from the flre ; add cream, little by little, stirring 
vhile. It does not require much cream to make the 



FAECES ASD QABNTTDBEB. 

of a proper thicknesa. Mash tbrongli a eieva or fine 
Br, add a pinch of sugar, and it is ready for use. 
makes an excellent puree, and is good served with 
every kind of meat. 

Ao with white onions, tmd properly mashed through 
i, it looks like cieam, and is almost as white v 



FISH. 



The Indians bleed the fisli as soon as caught^ becanso 
flesh is firmer when cooked. 

The Dutch and the French bleed the cod, which ac- 
nts for the better quality and whiteness of their cod- 

4 

To select — ^To be good, fish must be fresh. It is 
h when the eyes are clear, the fins stiff, the gills red, 
i to open, and without bad odor. 
To clean and prepare for boiling, — ^The sooner fish is 
med the better. Out the belly open, take the inside 
, wash well and wipe dry immediately with a clean 
el, inside and out Place the eggs or soft roes inside, 
tie with twine. It is then ready to be boiled. 
If not cooked as soon as cleaned and prepared, keep 
DL ice. 

To .clean and prepare for baking^ frying, roastingj and 
ut in pieces, etc. — Scale the fish well, holding it by the 
d or tail ; cut the belly open and take the inside out ; 
I off the fins, gills, and tail ; wash well inside and out, 
wipe dry immediately. 
Keep it on ice- if not used immediately. 
Same Family, or Kind, — ^We give only one receipt for 
>he fishes of the same fEunily, or having the same kind 



126 FiSH. 

of flesli, as they are cooked alike, and require the same 
spices. 

Almost every kind of fish is boiled, broiled, fried, or 
stewed. Some are better boiled than broiled, others bet- 
ter fried than stewed, etc. With few exceptions, any eat- 
able fiflh may be cooked in these four ways. Few are 
roasted. 

To know when cooked enough. — ^It is very difQcult, if 
not entirely impossible, to tell ho\i^ long it takes to cook 
fish, as it depends as much on the size, kind, or quality of 
the fish as on the fire ; but as soon as the flesh comes off 
the bones easily, the fish is cooked ; this is very easy to be 
ascertained with a knife. 

To improve. — Glean the fish as for baking, etc, and lay 
it in a crockery vessel with the following seasonings under 
and upon it : parsley and onions chopped fine, salt^ pep- 
per, thyme, bay-leaves, and vinegar or oil; tarn it over 
occasionally, and leave thus for two or three hours. 

To hone,—S]it the fish on one side of the backbone 
and fins, from head to tail ; then run the knife between 
the bones and the flesh so as to detach tiie whole side 
from the rest ; do the same for the other side. 

For a flounder, or any other flat fish, slit right in the 
middle of both sides of the fish so as to make four in- 
stead of two pieces. 

The head, bones, and fins are not used at all, and are ' 
left in one piece. 

To serve, when boiled, — ^The fish is placed on a napkin 
and on a dish or platter, surrounded with parsley, and the 
sauce served in a saucer. 

To akin, — Take hold of the piece offish by the smaller 
end, and with the thumb and forefinger of the left hand ; 
run the knife between the flesh and skin, moving the knife 



FISH. 



m 



ukd fro as if yoa were sawing. Throw away tlie akin, 
. the fish is ready for cooking. 

If the skin were breaking, as it happens sometimes, 
e hold of it again, and proceed as before. 
To dee&rate, — ^Fish may be decorated with jelly, bat 
} easier and more sightly with craw-fish. The skewers 
stack in the fish as they are in a JUUt of huf. 
The craw-fish when boiled are red like t^e lobster, and, 
ides using them with skewdk*s, some may be placed all 
and the fish; it is delicate eating as well as sightly, 
iwers are never used with fish in vinaigrette, or when the 
is cut in pieces. The craw-fish has only to be boiled 
)re using it for decorating fish. 
Shrimps and praums are used the same as craw-fisL 
Oyetere are also used, raw or blanched ; run the skewer 
mgb a large oyster or craw-fish, then through a slice 
sniffle; again through an oyster,* truffle, etc.; through 
>, three, or more of each, according to the size of the 
nrer or of the fish. 

Fiehrketth. — ^A fish-kettle must have a double bottom. 
) more handy to take the fish off without breaking it, 




i 



=^^=% 




. there is no danger of having it spoiled while cooking, 
i-kettles are found in every house-furnishing store. 



Baked.— i 

baMng ; pat i 
ter spread all 
wifi water or 
it and bake. 
done, and eer 

While th€ 
lit a boat, anc 

Abated 
iug a few dr 
kind of saace 

Balls.— Y 
CToqwUes. T 
it may be coc 

Kah, tiill 
cod is tbe eas 

Commenc 
fine also a s. 
(balf a middli 
enough for 1 
tablespoonful 
the fish in vrii 
and a pinch o 
will take two 
yolks of e^;s 
minate, stirrii 
rooms or ob< 
mixtwe into : 
two or three '. 

Before cc 
being more d 
on the paste-1 
either round, 



FISH. 189 

bread-crumbs or flour to belp in handliDg the mixture ; 
boil or fry, according to taste. 
'.t may also be baked in cakes. 
When Med, they may be dipped in beaten egg, roUcd 
read-crumbs, and then fried in hot fet. {See Frying.) 
Boiled. — Clean and * prepare the flsh as directed, and 
it in a fish-kettle ; cover it with cold water (sea-water 
6 best) ; add the following seasonings to a pound of 

two stalks of parsley, one of tarragon if handy, one 
spoonful of vinegar, and balf a middling-sized onion 
d ; salt if boiled in fresh water. Set on the fire, and, 
i fish weighing two pounds or under, take off at the 
boiling — ^it is done enough. For a fish weighing five 
ids, boil ^ve minuteS| etc., that is, about one mi&ute 
lach pound. If it were a thick slice of fish instead of 
lole one, weighing two or three pounds, it should be 
3d two or three minutes longer, etc., according to 
biess. 

Broiled, — Slit the fish on the back and clean it ; salt 
pepper it ; have a little melted butter and spread it all 

the fish, on both sides, with a brush, and broil it. 

Broiling.) 

WMe the fish is broiling, prepare a maitre d^hotel 
e, spread it on the fish as soon as dished, and serve. 
[t may sJso be served with anchovy butter. 
Fried. — ^Any small fish of the size of a smelt, or smaller, 
itter fried than prepared in any other way. 
Dlean and prepare the fish as directed, wipe it dry. 
it in milk, place in a colander for five minutes, then 
in flour, and fry. It may also be fried just rolled in flour. 
Another way. — When wiped dry, dip in beaten egg, 
in bread-crumbs, and fry. 

Another. — ^When wiped dry, dip the fish in butter, and 
6* 



130 



FISH. 



fry. Then the fish is dropped in hot fat {see FBTuro), 
turned uito a colander^ salted, and served hot, with Med 
parsley around or in the middle, according to how the fish 
is arranged in the dish. 

Fry the followiug as above : carp^ tench, Jrostj ban^ 
perch, black and blue fish, gold, loach, mullet, porgy, toeaky 
fiouTider, pike, pickerel, smelt, sun, herring, and white-Jisk 
of the lakes. 

A la Orly, — If it is small fish, like the smelt, it is pre- 
pared whole ; if the fish is larger, it must be boned and 
skinned, and cut in pieces about two inches long. BoU 
the fish, or pieces of ^sh, slightly in fionr ; dip it in beaten 
egg, and roll it again in bread-crumbs ; then fiiy it in hot 
fat as above. 

When fried, serve it with a tomato-sauce. 

The fish may be served on a napkin in a dish, and tiie 
sauce in a boat or saucer. 

Boasted, — ^The following fishes only are roasted : eel^ 
salmon, shad, pike, turbot 

Clean and prepare as directed, and then tie with twine. 
Spread salt, pepper, and melted butter (with a brash) all 
over the fish, and then envelop it in buttered paper ; set 
on the spit and roast Baste with a little melted butter, 
and remove the paper about five minutes before it is done. 

When on the dish the twine is cut off and removed, 
and it is served as hot as possible with the following sancea, 
to which tarragon is added in making them, ii handy : 
caper, Sdlandaise, Mayonnaise, piquante, poivrade, and 
rSmolade, A roii^t fish is served after roast meat 

Another way. — Clean, and cut in slices half an inch 
thick, or leave entire, as it suits you; skin it well; lay it 
in a crockery vessel, spread over it some chopped parsley, 
grated nutmeg, salt, pepper, and two gills of white wine 



FS&K. 181 

is for about three pouads), leave thus two hours ; 
take the fish only, envelop it in buttered paper, fix it 
le spit before a good fire, baste with the wine and 
Dings from the crockery dish, and when nearly done 
the paper off; finish the cooking, basting the while, 
erve with the drippings, to which you diay add a lit- 
negar, sweet-oil, and mustard. 

* there is any. left, you can serve it cold the next day 
an oil-sauce. 

*autS. — Scale, clean, and prepare the fish as directed. 
me pound of fish put about one ounce of butter in a 
y-pan on the ^jee, and when melted put the fish in ; 

on both sides, ta\d serve it with a maitre cPhotel^ 
*tew€d. — Clean and prepare as directed three pounds 
h, cut it in pieces about two inches long. Put in a 
:ettle four ounces of butter, kneaded with a teaspoon- 
' flour, Mid the same of chopped parsley, add two or 

mushrooms cut in pieces, salt and pepper, then the 
ind a glass of claret wine, or a wine-glass of vinegar; 

* with water, set on a good fire, boil gently till cooked ; 
the pieces of fish, strain the saude on them, spread 
deces of mushrooms over, and serve. 

Uuffed. — ^When cleansed, cut out the backbone from 
lead to within two inches of the tail, and fill its place 
the following mixture : soak stale bread in cold water 
then squeeze the water out ; put one ounce of batter 
a saucepan and set it on the fire ; as soon as melted, 
1 it one middle-sized onion, chopped fine ; then add the 
i ; stir for two minutes, add also salt, pepper, a pinch 
Ltmeg, two or three tablespoonfuls of broth ; stir again 
or three minutes ; take the pan from the fire, add a 
of Qgg^ put back on the fire for half a minute, stir- 
tbe while, take off again, add afeaspoonful of chopped 



182 FISH. 

parsley, and use. Whea fiiH, tie the fish with twim 
it ia a baking-pRn, salt and pepper it ; spread a lit 
tor on it also; cover the bottom of the pan with c 
ter, bake and serve with its gravy. 

If there is Bot gravy enough, or if it has driei 
add a litUe Broth a few minutes before taking fri 
oven. 

Fiah au Oratin. — ^Bone and skin the fish as d; 
For a fish weighing about two pounds, spread oq( 
of butter on a tin plate or baSang-pan, spread over 
an onion, chopped ; place the pieces of fish on thei 
salt, pepper, a tablespoonful of vinegar or a wine-f 
white wine, and half an onnce of bqtter ; spread O' 

"While it is baking, put in a small saucepan on( 
of butter, and set it on the fire ; when melted, add 
tahleapoonfu! of flour, stir, and, when it is turning 
add also about one gill of broth, two tablespoon 
meat^avy, the juice of the fish when baked (if ■ 
be not done when the time comes to put the juict 
pan, keep the pan in a warm place, and wait), salt, n 
per; boil gently about five miuates, stirring occaa 
Place the fish in a tin or silver dish, spread three 
mushrooms sliced over it ; turn the sance gently o 
whole, dust with -bread-crumbs ; put half an ounce 
ter, in four or five pieces, on the whole ; bake ten oi 
minntes, and serve in the dish in which it is. 

In Matelote, — Every Hnd of fish is good in » 
but the following are the best: haas, Hack-jUh, bt 
carp, etl, perch, pkh»rel,jnke,porffy, tench, trout, am 
jUh. 

A matelote may be made of eels alone, but it i; 
with eels and one, twc? or three other kinds of fisl 



\ 



SIBH. 133 

ilels tasting of mnd are not good. There is a sure 
of taking away the muddy taste, but it is a rather 
nsive one. Boil them a few minutes in- claret wine 
a little salt, 'before nsing them. 
31ean, and prepare as directed, one pound of eels, one 
id of pike, and one pound of trout, or one pound of 
Df the fishes named above — in all, three pounds. Cut 
ish in pieces about two inches long, fry it slightly with 
le butter, and put it away for awhile. * 
?ut four ounces of butter in a saucepan and set it on 
fire ; when melted, add two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
and, when the flour is turning rather brgwn, add also 
Lt a quart of broth, a pint of claret, a bunch of sea- 
Qgs, composed of half a dozen stalks of parsley, two 
byme, two bay-leaves, and two cloves, also salt, ^pper, 
cloves of garlic, and six button onions ; boil gently 
ibout half an hour. Then put the fish in with /rom 
o twelve mushrooms, broth enough to cover the whole, 
le broth and wine already in do not cover it ; boil 
ly for about half an hour, or till the fish is cooked, 
n^the saucepan now and then ; dish the* fish ^ place 
mushrooms and onions all over; sprinkle the sauce 
• it through a strainer, and serve warm. Croutons may 
erved around. 

Another, or Marinihre, — ^Prepare and cut the fish as 
bhe above, but instead of frying it put it in a sauce; 
, into which you have put previously about half a 
3n sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, two bay-leaves,. two 
es of garlic, twelve small onions, two cloves, salt, and 
per ; when the fish is placed over the above seasonings, 
3r entirely jvith claret wine. Set the saucepan on a 
:p fire, and, as soon as it boils, throw into it a glass of 
neh brandy, set it on fire, and let it burn. It will not 



ery long, bnt enongh to give a good taste to it Aa 
s it stopa baming, knead fonr onncea of batter witb 
»poonM of flour, and pnt it in tbe pan; toes 
n gently DOW and then till done. It taboft about 
ainntes with a good fire. 

hen done, dish the fish carefolly, place the mnah- 
all orer it, the onions alt around, strain the sauce 
le whole, and Berre warm. 

ouftmf may also be served witb tlie rest; pataroosd 
di one crouton, then an onion, and so on, all 
L 

lother. — Proceed ss for the sboye, in every psrtien- 
cept that yoa cover the fish and seasonings with 
and whit« wine, half of each, instead of claret, 
in the same way. 

matelote may be made three or foar days in advance, 
ep warmed in boiling water (baia^marie) jnst before 
fit. 

iny prefer a matelote made fonr days before eating 
prepared in the following way : When made, put 
^ to cool as quickly as poeaible ; twenty-foof home 
bat, warm it in boiling water ; cool, and warm again 
same way once a day. If the sauce becomes thick, 
little broth. Serve warm. 

naigrelle — ^Boil a fish as directed, take it Irom tbe 
and let cool ; then dUb it. Chop fine the yolks of 
ird-boiled e^Ts ; do the same with, the two whites ; 
ilso a handfhl of parsley. Pat a string of &e yolks 
th sidee of the fish, then along that a string of tbe 
, and along these a string of the parsley ; along the 
f, and about half an inch apart, a sf^g of capera. 
lemon in siiteen stices, and in the following w»y : 
ilit the lemon in two lengthwise, then split again 



136 FIBH. 

side of the fiBb under ; place thns on a good fire, tnr 
when done on one side, and, when cooked, spread 
maitre d'h6tel on it; and serve warm. 

The same — aux Jims kerhes. — Clean and prepi 
for bating, etc., and also improve it as directed. £i 
the fish in bnttered paper, and also the seasonings in 
it has been improved, except the thyme and baj-l 
broil it, and eerre mt\i jnqnanle sance. 

Cod-JUh, cask, haddock, hake, halibtit, poUaei 
torak, after being bated or boilad as directed, are i 
with the following sances : 

AiKhmy, Siehamel, eaper, cream, egg, SollandaiM. 
mailre d'h6tcl, tomato, vinaigyelte. 

EEL, CONGEfi, AND LAHPBEY 
To clean. — When skinried, clean, bead, and t 
Then throw them in boiling water, in which yon 
a little salt and a teaapoonful of vinegar; leave t 
abont five ninuteB, take out, and drain. 

Broiled. — fClean and cut two pounds of eel, or 
of the otbers, in pieces about three inches long. 
Btewpan a piece of butter the size of an egg, and 
the fire; when hot, lay the eela in, frj[ about tl 
utcs, turning them over the while ; then turn the 
to a crockery vessel, add a teaspoonful of choppB' 
and onions, a pinch of grated nutmeg, a tablespi 
sweet-oil, salt,' and pepper ; set on the fire and sin 
honra ; take off, roll the pieces in fine bread-emni 
them on a gridiron, and on a good fire, and Be 
llonc with piquante sance. 

From the natiire of their flesh, eels require t 
pared thus ; and, when properly done, make real 
good disb. 



a tsh wfflghing four pounds, spread two oanoea of 
er on the bottom of a baking-pan ; spread one odIod, 
>ped fine, over the batter, and as much carrot, cat in 
11 dice. Place the fiah over the whole, the pieces as 
' are, or cut according to the size of the pan, salt sad 
>er, and bate. Taik^ &om the oven when done and 

the fish, leaving the jnice in the pan ; cnt the steins 
,bont a dozen moshrooniB; plao^ the heads on the 
lie of the fish, and the stems around it 
Uix oold a tablespoonfol of floor and the eame of but- 
n a saucepan, turn into it a pint of broth, set oix thff 
and stir continnally ; when thoroughly miied, turn 

it also, and throngh a strainer, the jnice from the pan 
'hich the fish has baked ; stir again two or three min- 
; turn gently over the fish, put in the oven for about 
minutes, and serve hot. Crvutont may be placed 
nd the dish as a decoration. 

Another Iformtmde. — ^Bone and skin the fish ss direct- 
butter well the dish on which the fish is to be served, 
ad some chopped onion all over, then place the fiah 
' it; sprinkle salt, pepper, and white wine or vinegar 
iblespoonM to a ponnd of fish), all over the fish, aod 
) it. It takes about fifteen miontes for a fish we^hing 
or three poonds. Wine is better than vinegar, 
(Vhile the fish is baking, set a saucepan on tlie fire 
I an oancc of butter in It, and when melted, add 
a tablespoonfdl of flonr ; stir, and when turning yellow, 
also half a pint of broth or water, salt, then the joice 
L the fish when baked, stir, give one boil, and torn 

the fish. 

Blanch a dozen or so of oystera, place them all over 
Ssh also. 
Eave ready two or three potatoes, cnt witli a round 



■e voir. "When clean, boil tbe fish as directed, and 
it, BprinkliDg salt and pepper on it. 
Vliile it is boiling, put about two onnces of batter to 
iiid of fish in a frying-pan, set it on a sharp fire, stii 
and then, and nhca brown, throw into it aboat uz 
8, of parsley, which yon take off inunediatelj with a 
mer. As soon aa the parley is taken off, poor {he 
I over the fish, quickly pat two tablespoonfals of 
;aT in the frying-pan and over the fire, ^re one boil, 
pour also over the fish. Frying the parsley and boil- 
he vinegar cannot be done too fast, as the fish must 
irsed very warm. The warmer it is served, the better 

Salmon, sturgeon, and while-Ji^h, after being baked 
oiled, may be served with a caper, and ako witb n 
mmaUe sauce. They may also be served in cow* 
Ion, like. bass. They are broiled whole, or in slices, 
terved with a maitre fThdtel or a caper sauce. 
Vhe same in Fricandeau. — Cut the fish in slices ttbont 
an inch thick, and place them in a sancepan with 
I of fat salt pork, carrots and onions nhder them ; wA 
good fire; ten minutes afler, add a little broth, just 
gh to cover the bottom of <he. pan ; after abont five 
ites, turn the slices over ; finish the cooking and serve 
the gravy strained over the fish, or with a tomato- 

Vke gaTne in Papillofes, — Fry slices of salmon with a 
butter, and until of a golden color ; take them from 
ire. While they are frying, mis well together paisley 
ped fine, salt, pepper, melted butter, grated nntm^ 
a little lemon-juice; spread some of the mixtnre on 
Ndes of the. slices of fish, envelop them in buttered 
led paper ; broil, and serve them hot 



'rmled. — Cnt it in rather thia slic^Bjbntter botU wd» 

a brush ; broil, and secre with a maitre tFkitA 

had and the^s-head, aAer beiog baked or boiled, 

irred with an anobovj, caper, or tomato sance. They 

£0 serred cold, d la vinatffnUe. 

roiled. — When cleuied and prepared, aalt, pej^vw, 

•otter it ; broil and serve it with a maitre d'hoUt. 

. may be stuffed as directed for fish. 

1 ProeenjaU, — Glean, prepare, asd cut the &h in 

) about two inches long; pat aboat three ponndB of 

!t saucepan, with a pint of claret ; six stalfce of pns- 

. email onion, a clove of garlic, and dx mtuhrooma, 

lopfied fine ; boil till done, when add fonr otucea of 

r, and two of flour, well kneaded together; boil 

minutee longer, and serve warm. 

Mother leaif, or h la Chambord. — Stoff the fish willi 

^meat, envelop it in a towel, boil, and serve it with 

iat«-saace. 

'he tame with Sorrel. — Broil the fish, and serve it on 

■ie of sorrel or of spinach. 

> may also be prepared au court bouillon, (k la Sr4- 

, and attx /ties herbes, like baes, etc. 

heep^i-head may also be prepared like torbot. 

\u Cfratin. — The shad, after beii^ cleaned, but not 

on the back (as is too often the case, to the shame 

) fishmongers who be|^ by spoiling the fish under 

retence of cleaning it), is placed iu a bak&^ian, hav- 

ratt^r, chopped parsley, mnsbroom, salt, and pepper, 

under and above the fish. For a fish weighing three 

ds, add one gill of broth and half aa much of white 

dust the fi^ with bread-crumbs, and set in a pret^ 

oven. 

fteen minntes afterward, examine it Wbra doM^ 




144 FIBH. 

The following sauce is also serred at the 
Chop fine and fry till half done, with s little bn 
email green onione or four Bhallota. Put half » V • 
good meat^ravy ia a, small saucepan ; set on the ^3* 
• as soon as it commences to boil, pour into it, little by 
little, stirring the while with a wooden spoon, sbont a gill 
of Bordeaar wine, then the onions or shallots, 
piece of beef marrow chopped fine ; ^ve one 
serve in a sancer. 

In Salad. — ^Proceed as for salmon in salad. 

When boiled, serre the tnrbot with anchi 
lobster-bntter, lobste>sauce, or mnscle'Sauce. 

Cold. — Any cold piece of tnrbot is sem 
Mayormaine sance, or in vinaigrelU. 

Cold FUh. — If the fish is with sance, that 
sauce is in the same dish with the fish, warm 
hain-marie, and serre warm. Any other piece 
baked, boiled, broiled, or roasted, ia served with 
naUe sance, or with a vinaigrette. 

Any iind of cold fish may be preparec 
Slice the fish or ont it in pieces and pnt it in 
dish with hard-boiled ^^ sliced, onion ai 
chopped fine, salt, pepper, vinegar, and oiL 
whole gently wid weU, and serre. 

Antkovy. — It ia imported preserredL It L 
hon-d'omvre, to decorate or season. 

The essence of anchovy ia nsed for sance. 

The smallest are considered the beat 

To serve as a hors <F<x«vre, wash, wipe di 
move the backbone, serve with tarragon o 
chopped fine, vinegar, and oiL 

They may also be served with hard-bo 
chopped or quartered. 



)Dfiil8 of cream, and mix with the cod ; set on a slow 
and immediately ponr in, littlo by little, atimng the 
te, abont one ^ of eweet oil; simmer ten or twelve 
ntes, and serve with croutojis around. 
In Maiire d'HStel. — Lay three pounds of eod ■ on a 
L, after being cooked as directed ; keep it waim, spread 
atlre d'h^tel sauce on it, and serve. 
With Potaloes. — Prepare about three pounds of cod 
directed above. Lay the fish on a dish; have a 
ttante sauce ready, turn it over it, and serve with 
■med potatoes all around the dish. The potatoes may 
be served separately. 

In Vinaigrette. — Prepare as directed, and when cold, 
e with a vinaigrette. 

With Cheese. — Prepare tho cod as directed, then dip 
[ Inkewarm bntter, roll it in grated cheese, lay it in a 
ing-pan, dnst slightly with bread-crumbs ; bake, and 
e wapn. Two or three minutes in a quick oven will he 
LcienL 

Au. Gratin. — When soaked only and wiped dry, but 
boiled, prepare it as directed for fish au gratin. 
With Caper-Sauce. — Prepare it as directed, and serve 
m with caper-sauce. 

Salt Salmon. — Soak it in cold water for sonie time,- 
length of time to be accor^ng to the saltness of the 
; scale and clean it well, lay it in a fish-kettle, cover 
ith cold water, and set it on a moderate fire. Boil 
tly about two minutea, skim off the scum, take from 
kettle and drain it Put butter in a frying-pan and 
it on the fire ; vrhen it turns rather brown, put a few 
gs of parsley in it, and immediately poor it over the 
in the dish; add a few drops of lemon-juice all over, 
serve warm. 



148 PIBH. 

Sed Herring. — ^Wipe or skin them, 
good when naehed ; cut off the head ai 
bact open, lay them on a, warm and well-^ 
Bet on a slow fire ; spread some butter or > 
over, do the same on the other aide ; broil very little, and 
serve with a vinaigrette and mnstard to taste. 

Another viay. — Clean and split them as above, soak 
them in Inkewarm water for two hours ; take out, dnun, 
and wipe dry. Mis two or three yolks of e^^ with a 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and a little 
melted butter; pnt some of the mixture aronnd every 
heiring, then roll them in fine bread-cnunbs, place them 
on a gridiron on a slow fire, and when lightly broiled, 
serve as the preceding one. 

Red herring may also be broiled with bread-cmmbs 
like salt herring. 

It is also aerred as a kora^eewvre, cut in slices. 

Salt Mackerel broiled. — If the fish be too salt, soak 
it for a while in lukewarm water, take off and wipe dry. 
Have a little melted tat or lard, dip a brush in it and 
grease slightly both sides of the fish ; place on or inside 
of 4Ke gridiron, the bars of which must also be greased ; set 
on, or before, or under a pretty sharp fire; broil haSt 
sides ; dish the fish, the skin nudcr ; spread butter on it; 
also parsley chopped fine, and serve. 

Lemon-juice may be added if liked, or a fe' 
of vinegar. 

When broiled and dished, spread a Tnattre if, 
it, and serve. 

Another way. — When soaked and wiped dr 
melted butter, again in beaten eggs, and roll ii 
cmmbs. Broil and serve with parsley and lemon 
with a maitre iTkdtel. 



BIBH, 149 

FROGS. 

le hind-1^ of frogs ooly are used as food ; former- 
Y were eaten by the French only, but now, frog-eat- 
8 become general, and the AmericanB are not behind 
hers in relishing that kind of food. 
'ied, — ^Skin well, and throw into > boiling water with 
I salt, for fire minutes, the hind-legs only ; take out 
row them in cold water to cool, and drain. Have 
it in a pan on the fire {see Dibbotions fob Frt- 
lay the frogs in, and serve when done with fried 
T around. 

cwcrf.— Skin, boil five minutes, throw in cold water, 
•ain as above. Put in a stewpan two ounces of but- 
)r two dozen frogs) ; set it on the fire, and when 
I, lay the legs in, fry two minutes, tossing now and 
then sprinkle on them a teaspoonful of flour, stir 
wooden spoon, add two sprigs of parsley, one of 
, a bay-leaf, two cloves, one of garlic, salt, white 
r, and half a pint of white wine; boil gently till 
iish the legs, reduce the sauce on the fire, strain it, 
I it two yolks of eggs, pour on the legs, and serve 

• «■ 

LOBSTER. 

ver buy a dead lobster. 

rge lobsters are not as good as small ones. From 
one to two pounds and a half in weight are the 
The heavier the better, 
bsters are better at some seasons of the year than at 

They are inferior when full of eggs. 
is from mere prejudice that the liver (also called tow- 
is eschewed. Thjs prejudice may come firom its 
5 green on boiling the lobster. 



l&O FISH. 

Use every thing bat the stomach and the 
bluish vein runniDg along its back and tail. 

Boil your lobsters yourself; because, if j 
them already boiled, yoa do not know if they wi 
when put in the kettle. 

A lobster boiled after being dead is watery, 
not full ; besides being very unhealthy, if not dan; 

A lobster suffers less by being put in cold that 
ing water, and the flesh is firmer when done. la 
it in boiling water it is killed by the heat ; in co 
it is dead as soon as the water gets warm. 

To boll — Lfiy it in a fish-kettle ; just cover it wi1 
water, cover the kettle, and set it on a sharp 

It takes f/om fifteen to twenty-five mii 
according to the size of the lobster. 

When boiled, take it from the kettle, bre 
that is, separate the body from the tail, and 
colander to let the water drain. 

In Ike shell. — When the lobster is boiled 
two, taking care not to break the body and 
The tml is then split in two, lengthwise, th. 
off, cut in small dice, and mixejj with the 
lobster. 

The vein fonnd immediately under the s! 
the flesh of the lobster, is removed as soon 
The stomach, found near the bead, is remo 
thrown away ; all the rest is good, ineluding- 

When the flesh and inside are properly i 
with salt, pepper, vinegar, oil, mustard, and ( 

Place the body of the lobster on the mid 
the bead up, the two large claw^ stretched 
two feelers stretched out also and fiisten^d 



FISH. ' 151 

claws. A sprig of parsley is put in each claw, at the end 
of it, in the small claws as well as in the two large ones. 
Then the two empty halves of the tail-piece are put around 
the body of the lobster, the prepared flesh placed around 
them ; hard-boiled eggs cut in eight pieces each are placed 
around the dish, tastefully arranged ; some slices of red, 
picMed beets and cut with paste-cutters, are placed be- 
tween each piece of egg, and serve. 

It makes a simple, good, and very sightly dish. 

Half a dozen boiled craw-fish may be placed around 
the dish also ; it will add to the decoration. 

Two middling-sized lobsters prepared thus will fill a 
very large dish. They, should be placed back to back, 
with only a few craw-fish between, and the rest arranged 
as the above. 

In Salad, — ^Boil the lobster as directed; break and 
drain it as directed also. Slice the flesh of the tail, place 
it tastefully on a dish ; also the flesh from the tvfo large 
claws, which may be sliced or served whole. Lettuce, or 
hard-boiled eggs, or both, may be arranged on the dish 
also, and served with the following sauce : 

Put in a boat or saucer all the inside save the stomach, 
with salt, pepper, vinegar, oil, mustard, and chopped pars- 
ley, to taste ; beat and mix the whole well together, and 
serve. In case there are eggs, these are also to be mixed 
with the rest. 

Another. — Boil and drain as directed ; cut all the flesh 
in dice, and put it in a bowl with the inside, some lettuce 
cut rather fine, salt, pepper, vinegar, mustard, and very lit- 
tle oil ; mix well, and then put the mixture on a* dish, 
placing it like a mound on the middle of the dish; 
spread a Mayonnaise sauce over it; decorate with the 
centre leaves of the lettuce, some hard-boiled eggs cut in 



/ 



152 * FISH. 

slices or in fancy shapes, capers, boiled or pickled red 
beets, cut also in fancy shapes, slices of lemon, and serve. 

Anchovies, olives, pickled cucumbers, or any other 
pickled fruit or vegetable may also be added. 

A rose, or two or three pinks, may be placed ngbt on 
the top, as a decoration. Just before commencing to serve, 
the rose may be put on a dessert plate and offered to a 
lady. 

In Coquilles^ or Scalloped, — ^It is boUed and then fin- 
ished like oysters scalloped. 

It may be served thus on scallop-shells, on silver shells, 
or on its own shell ; that is, on the shell of the tail, split 
in two lengthwise, and trimmed according to fancy. 

Croquettes. — ^Lobster croquettes are made exactly like 
Jish-halls, and then fried according to directions for frying. 

They are served warm. It is an excellent dish for 
breakfast. 

Fried. — To be fried, the lobster must be bled ; separate 
the body from the tail, then cut the tail in pieces, making 
as many pieces as there are joints. Put these pieces in a 
frying-pan with two or three ounces of butter, and one 
onion, chopped fine ; set on a sharp fire, stir now and 
then till the whole is fried, then add a bunch of seasoning 
composed of three sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, a bay- 
leaf, and a clove ; salt, pepper, and three gills of Madeira 
wine ; boil gently till reduced about half; dish the pieces 
of lobster according to fancy ; add two or three tablespoon- 
fuls of gravy to the sauce, stir it, give one boil, and tarn 
it over the lobster through a strdner ; serve warm. 

Another way, — Proceed as above in every particular, 
except that you use Sauterne or Catawba wine instead of 
Madeira, and, besides the seasonings, add half a dozen 
mushrooms, or two truffles, or both. 



FISH. 153 

Dish the mushrooms and truffles with the lobster, then 
'finish and senre as the above. 

Cravhjish — ^These are found in most of the. hikes, 
brooks, and rivers. . * 

In some places they are called river^rahs^ or fresh- 
water crabs. 

They resemble the lobster, and are often taken for 
young lobsters. 

Besides being a beautiful ornament and much used to 
decorate dishes, they . are excellent to eat and very 
light 

They are dressed and served like lobsters and crabs. 

Fishermen are sure to find a ready market for them, 
though they are, as yet, very little known. 

Crabs. — Crabs are boiled like, lobsters, and may bo 
served like lobster, in salad. They are ofi;en eaten, only 
boiled, without any seasonings. 

like lobsters also, to be good, crabs must be put in 
the water alive. 

When well washed and clean, they may be prepared 
in the following way : Put them in a saucepan with slices 
of onions, same of carrots, parsley, chives if handy, thyme, 
bay-leaves, cloves, salt, and pepper-corns ; half cover them 
with white wine, add butter, set on a good fire, and boil 
till done. Serve with parsley only. 

The sauce may be used a second time by adding a lit- 
tle wine. 

The soft-shell crab is blanched five minutes, and fried 
like fish. 

It may also be sautS with a little butter, and served 
with a maitre d'hotel. 

Broil it also, and serve it with a maitre d*hdtel. 

Muscles. — These are unwholesome between April and 
7* 



-^ — - i- .-^-1. *l 



154: 



FISH. 



September. They must be heavy, fresh, and of a mid- 
dling size. The very large ones are really inferior. 

Soak them in water and wash well several times, then 
drain. * 

In Poulette, — ^Put them in a saucepan with a little * 
parsley chopped fine, and set them on a pretty good fire ; 
as soon as they are opened, remove the shell to which they 
are not attached, and keep them in a warm place. 

. For two quarts of muscles, put two ounces of butter 
in the saucepan in which they have been cooked and in 
which you have left their liquor ; set on the fire, stir, and 
as soon as the butter is melted, add and stir into it a table- 
spoonful of flour ; when turning a little yellow, add also 
half a dozen pepper-corns, then the muscles ; boil gently 
about ten minutes, stirring occasionally; take from the 
fire, mix one or two yolks of eggs with it, a little lemon- 
juice, parsley chopped fine, and serve warm. 

. Another way, — ^When clean, put them in a saucepan 
with a few slices of carrot, same of onion, two or three 
stalks of parsley, one of thyme, a bay-leaf, two cloves, six 
pepper-corns, and salt. Set on the fire, and take tlie mus- 
cles from the pan as soon as they open, then remove one 
shell ; put them back in the pan, with as much white wine 
as there is liquor from the muscles ; boil gently about ten 
minutes, add the yolk of an ^gg^ a little lemon-juice, and 
dish the muscles ; drain the sauce over them, add a little 
chopped parsley, and serve warm. 

Fried, — Fry, and serve the muscles like fried oysters. 
They may also be served like scalloped oysters. 

Pravms and Shrimps, — Wash, boil in water and salt, 
and serve. They may be used, like craw-fish, to decorate 
fish after being boiled. 

Another way, — ^Wash well, and put two quarts of them 



FISH. 155 

in a saucepan with four onions in slices, two sprigs of 
parsley, one of thyme, a bay-leaf, two cloves, salt, pepper, 
half a pint of white wine, and two ounces of butter, just 
cover with water and set on a good fb:e ; when properly 
cooked, drain, and serve warm with green parsley all 
around. The liquor may be used a second time. 

OYSTERS. 

The American oyster is unquestionably the best that 
can be found. It varies in taste according to how it is 
treated, either after being dredged or while embedded ; 
and also according to the nature of the soil and water in 
which they have lived. It is very wrong to wash oysters. 
We mean by washing oysters, the abominable habit of 
throwing oysters in cold water, as soon as opened, and 
then sold by the measure. It is more than a pity to thus 
spoil such an excellent and delicate article of food. 

Oysters, like lobsters, are not good when dead. To as- 
certain if they are alive, as soon as opened and when one 
of the shells is removed, touch gently the edge of the 
oyster, and, if alive, it will contract. 

Haw. — ^When well washed, open them, detaching the 
upper shell, then detach them from the under shell, but 
leave them on it ; place on a dish, and leave the upper 
shell on every oyster, and serve thus. 

To eat them, you remove the upper shell, sprinkle salt, 
pepper, and lemon-juice on, and eat. 

When raw oysters are served on a table, at which there 
are gentlemen only, some shallots, chopped fine and gently 
bruised in a coarse towel, are served with them, on a sep- 
arate dish. The taste of the shallot agrees very well with 
Ihat of the oyster. 

A Tartar sauce may be served instead of shallots. 



166 FISH. 

To blanch, — Set the oysters and a little water on the 
fire in a saucepan, take them ojQf at the first boil, skim ofif 
the scum from ^e top, strain them, and drop them in cold 
water. 

The skimming, straining, and dropping in cold water 
mast be done quickly^the quicker the better. If allowed 
to stay in the warm water, or out of wafer, they get tough. 

In dropping them in cold water, see that they are free 
from pieces of shell ; take them with a fork if necessary. 

As soon as in cold, water they are ready for use, bat 
they must always be drained again before using them. 

When the water used to blanch is employed in pre- 
paring them, it is explained in the different receipts. 

White wine may be used, instead of water, to blanch 
them, according to taste. 

Fried, — Open the oysters, and put them in a colander 
for about half an hour. They must be as well drained as 
possible. Then dip them in egg and roll in bread-cmmbs 
in the following way : Beat one or two, or three, eggs 
(according to the quantity of oysters to be fried),, as for 
an omelet, turn the oysters into the eggs and stir gently; 
then take one after another, roll in bread-crumbs ; place 
each one on your left hand, in taking them from the 
crumbs, and with the other hand press gently on it. Put 
them away in a cool place for about half an hour, and then 
dip again in Qggj roll in bread-crumbs, and press in the 
hand as before. It is not indispensable to dip in egg and 
roll in crumbs a second time; but the. oysters are better, 
and you are well repaid for the little extra work it re- 
quires. While you are preparing them, set some fat on 
the fire in a pan, and when hot enough {see Frying) drop 
the oysters in, stir gently, take off with a skimmer when 
fried, turn into a colander, add salt, and serve hot. 



insH. 157 

Boasted, — ^Place the oysters on a hot stove or range, 
or on coals, and as soon as they open take off, remove one 
she]] ; turn a little melted butter on each^ and serve, ^ 

There are several oth'er ways. 

When blanched, they are served on toast, a little 
gravy is added, the toast placed on a dessert-plate, and 
served thus. 

Broiled and roasted as above is the same thing. 

Oysters scalloped on their own shell, and placed on 
the range instead of in the oven, ar^ also called bl*oiled. 

Scalloped, — ^Place the oysters when thoroughly washed 
on a hot stove, and as soon as they open remove one shell, 
the flatter one of the two, and take them from the fire. 
Sprinkle salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and bread-crumbs 
on them ; place on each a piece of butter the size of a 
hazel-nut ; put in the oven about ten minutes, and when 
done add a few drops of meat-gravy, to each, and serve 
hot 

Another, — ^Put a quart of oysters and their liquor in a 
saucepan, set* it on the fire, take off at the first boil, and 
drain. Set a saucepan on the fire with two ounces of but- 
ter in it ; as soon as melted, add a teaspoonfiil of flour, 
stir, and, v^hen turning rather brown, add the juice of the 
oysters, about a gill of gravy, salt, and pepper ; boil gen- 
tly for about ten minutes, stirring now and then. While it 
is boiling, place the oysters on scallop-shells, or on silver 
shells made for that purpose, two or three oysters on each, 
turn some of the above sauce on each, after it has boiled ; 
dust with bread-crumbs, put a little piece of butter on 
each shell, and bake for about twelve minutes in a warm 
oven. 

A dozen sHver shells served thus make a sightly and 
excellent dish. 



3ome troffioB, chopped fine, may be added to the aaace, 

minutes before taking it from the fire. 

Stewed. — Procnre two quarts of good and fresh ojs- 
Set them on a sharp fire,' with their liquor and a 

i water, and blanch as directed. Pnt four ounces of 

«r in a saucepan, sot on the fire, and when melted stir 
it a small tablespoonM of flour ; as sood as mixed, 

also a teaspooofhl of parslef, chopped fine, and about 
a pint of broth ; boil gently abont ten minntes, then 
the' oysters, salt- and pepper, boil again about one 

ate, dish the whole, sprinkle lemon-juice on, and serve. 

An oyster soup is often called a stew. 

In JPouletle. — \d *adding chopped mnshroomB to tie 

'cd oysters, at the same time that the oysters are pnt 

he pan, you make tbem inpottlette. 

A la Washington, — ^ed oysters are called it la Wa^ 

on, when two, three, or fonr very lai^ oysters are pat 

ither (they adhere very easily), dipped in egg, rolled 

read-cmmbs, and fried; as directed aboye. It is neces- 

' to have a deep' pan, and mnch fat, to immerse tbem 

ipletely. 

Pickled oysters are always served as a Aorc iTcetaiTe, 

le around the oysters some hard-boiled eggs, chopped 

, nod serve with oil and vinegar. 

Serve them in the same way, with slices of tmfRes in- 

d of hard-boiled e^s. 

They may also be served with lemon-juice only. 

Or with shallots chopped fine, and then bruised in > 

-se towel. This last one is considered of too strong > 

e for ladies. 

They are also served with a Tartar sauce. 

Scallops. — Blanch the scallops for three minutes, draui 

n. Put bntter on the fire in a frying-pan, and when 



FISH. 159 

melted tarn tlie scallops in ; stir now and then, take from 
the fire when fried, add parsley chopped fine, salt, pepper, < 
and serve warm. 

On the Shell, — Chop fine a middlingnsized onion, and 
fry it with one ounce of butter.. While the onion is frying, 
ch9p fine also one quart of scallops and put them with the 
onion ; stir for two or three minutes, or till about half 
fried, when turn the juice ofl^, put back on the fire, and 
add one ounce of butter, one gill of white wine, stir for 
two or three minutes, and if too thick add the juice you 
have turned off; take from the fire, and mix a yolk of egg 
with it, add salt, pepper, nutmeg grated, and parsley chopped 
fine. 

Have the scallop shells properly cleaned, or silver shells, 
spread the mixture on the shells ; dust with bread-crumbs, 
put a piece of butter about the size of a hazel-nut on each, 
and put in an oven, at about 320 deg. Fahr., for from ten 
to fifteen minutes. 

This is a dish for breakfast. 

Scallop, scollop, or escalop, are one and the same fish. 

CLAMS. 

Wash clean with a scrubbing-brush and put them in 
a kettle ; .set on a good fire, and leave till they arfe wide 
open ; then take from the kettle, cut each in two or three 
pieces, put them in a stewpan with all the water they have 
disgorged in the kettle, and about four ounces of butter 
for fifty clams ; boil slowly about an hour, take from the 
fire, and mix with the whole two beaten eggs, and serve 
warm. 

Clams are also eaten raw with vinegar, salt, and pepper. 

Chowder. — This popular dish is made in a hundred 
different ways, but the result is about the saftne. 



U is generally admitted that boatmen prepare it beltei 
I others, and the receipts we give below came from 
most experienced chowder-men of the Harlem £irer. 
Potatoes and crackers are used in different proportions, 
more ased, the thicker, the chowder will be. 
Put in a pot (technical name) some small slices of 
lalt pork, enough ia line the bottom of it ; on that, a 
r of potatoes, cnt in small pieces; on the potatoes, 
;er of chopped onions ; on the onions, a layer of 
atoes, in slices, or canned tomatoes; on the latter a 
r of clams, whole or chopped (they arc generally 
sped), then a layer of crackers. 
Then repeat the process, that is, another layer of pota- 

on that of the clams ; on this, one of onions, etc, 
the pot is nearly full Every layer is seasoned with 

and pepper. Other spices are sometimes added ac- 
ling to taste ; such as thyme, cloves, bay-leaves, and 

IgOD. 

When the whole is in, cover with water, set on a slow 
and when nearly done, stir gently, finish cooking, and 
e. 

As we remarked above, the more potatoes that are 
I, the thicker it will be. 

When done, if found too thin, boil a little longer ; if 
id too thick, add a little water, give one boil, and 
e. 

Another way. — Proceed as above in every particular, 
!pt that you omit the clams and crackere, and when 
rest is nearly cooked, then add the chopped clams and 
ten crackers, boil fast about twenty-five minnles 

If found too thick or too thin, proceed exactly as for 
one above. 



FISH. 161 

Fish Chowder. — ^This is made exactly as clam cbow- 
der, nsiDg fish instead of clams. 

QUmi Bake, — This is how it is made by the Harlem 
Biver clam-baker, Tom Riley. 

Lay the clams on a rock, edge downward, and forming 
a circle, cover them with fine brush ; cover the brush with 
dry sage ; cover the sage with larger brush ; set the whole 
on fire, and when a little more than half burnt (brush 
and sage), look at the clams by pulling some out, and if 
done enough, brush the fire, cinders, etc., off; mix some 
tomato or cauliflower sauce, or catsup, with the clams 
(minus their shells) ; add butter and spices to taste, and 
serve. 

Done on sand, the clams, in opening, naturally allow 
the sand to get in, and it is any thing but pleasant for the 
teeth while eating them. 



HOW TO SELECT. 
Bx if tlie meat is fine, of a clear red color, with ;el- 
h-white fat 

COW BEEP. 
low beef must also be of a clear red color, bnt more 
than other beef; the fat ia white. 

BULL BEEF. 
lull beef 13 never good ; you recognize it when jon 
ard and yellow ia.t ; the leas part isof a dirty-reddish 

lie ramp piece is generally prepared & la modi. 
iteaks, the tenderloin and the piece called the po^te^ 
i steak, are the beat ; mmp eteaka are seldom tender, 
'be roasting or baking pieces are the tenderloin, tbe 

and Bome cuts of the ribs, 
'or Boup, every piece is good; to make ricb brotli, 

pieces of the nirap, sucket, round, etc., but eveiy 

makes excellent broth, and therefore excellent sonp- 
BaOTH.) 

L good piece of rib, prepared like a fillet or tender- 
makes an excellent dish, the bones and meat aroond 

being used to make broth. 



BEEF. 163 

A LA MODE. 

Take from six to twclye pounds of rnmp and lard it. 
To lard it you take a steel needle made for that purpose, 
flat near the pointed end and much larger than an ordinary 
larding-needle. It must be flat near the point in order to 
cut the meat so as to make room for the larger part of the 
needle to pass, and also for the salt pork. This needle is 
only used for beef A la mode. 

Cut the salt pork in square strips to fit the needle, 
{see Larding), and proceed. 

Examine the piece of beef, lard with the grain of the 
meat, so that when it is carved the salt pork shall be cut 
across. 

If the piece is too thick to run the strip of pork 
through, so that both ends stick out, lard one side first 
then the other. We mean by one side first, this : to be 
easily handled, the salt pork cannot be cut longer than 
about four inches ; as half an inch of it must stick out of 
the meat, it leaves only three inches inside, and if the 
piece of meat be six inches or more thi<?k, of course it 
would be impossible to iave the strip of pork stick out on 
both sides ; therefore, you lard one side first ; that is, you 
run the needle through the meat, leaving the salt pork 
stick out on the side you commence, and when that side 
is larded, do the same for the other. You have then the 
salt pork sticking out on both sides of the meat and look- 
ing just as if the strips were running through the whole 
piece. 

Some like more salt pork than others in the beef; the 
strips' may be run thickly or thinly. 

Thirty strips may be run into three pounds of meat as 
well as half a dozen; but about h^f a pound of salt pork 
to five pounds of beef is a pretty good proportion. 



164 BEEF. 

Then take a saucepan of a proper size for the piece of 
meat ; it must not be too large or too small, but large 
enough to hold the meat without beiog obliged to bend 
or fold it ; a crockery pan is certainly the best for that 
purpose, and one that will go easiJj in the oven. 

Put in the saucepan, fojr six pounds of beei^ half a 
calfs foot, or a veal-bone if more handy, two ounces of 
butter, half a handfiil of parsley (cives, if handy), two 
bay-leaves, a clove of garlic, a sprig of thyme, two onions, 
with a clove stuck in each, salt, pepper, half a carrot cut in 
slices, the rind of the salt pork you have used, and what 
you may have left of strips ; the whole well spread on the 
bottom of the pan, then the piece of meat over, cover Uie 
pan, set on a rather sharp fire and after about ten minutes 
add half a gill of water; keep the pan covered to 
the end. 

After another ten or fifteen minutes, add about one 
pint of cold water, turn the meat over, and after about 
ten minutes more, place the pan in the oven, a rather slow 
oven (a little above 220 degrees Fahr.), for five or six 
hours. Dish the meat, skim off the fat on the top of the 
gravy, give one boil and turn it over the meat and carrots 
through a strainer. 

When the meat is dished, put some carrots au jus aU 
around ; serve warm. 

Cold, — Serve it whole or in slices, with meat jelly, or 
with a sharp sauce ; such as piquante^ ravigote^ etc. 

STEWED. 

Stewed beef is called also dauhe or braised beef, but it 
is the same. 

It may be larded as beef a la mode, or not ; it may be 
put whole in the pan or in large dice, according to taste. 



BEBF. 165 

The following is for five or six poands of ramp or 
even a piece of tibs : 

Fat in a saucepan two ounces of salt pork cut in dice, 
four sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, t^o bay-leaves, a 
clove of garlic, a sprig of sweet basil, two cloves, three 
carrots cut in pieces, salt, and pepp^ ; put the piece of 
beef on the whole, wet with a glass of broth, and one of 
white wine (a liquoivglass of French brandy may also be 
added) ; season with six or eight small onions ; place in a 
moderately heated oven, pat paste around the cover to 
keep it air-tight ; simmer about six hours ; dish the meat 
with the onions and carrots around it, strain the gravy on 
the whole, and serve,. 

Almost any piece of beef may be cooked in the same 
way, and will be found goodf wholesome, and economical. 

ROASTED. 

How to improve it — Eut the meat in a tureen, with 
four tablespooniuls of sweet^oil, salt, pepper, two table- 
spoonfuls of chopped parsley, four onions cut in slices, 
two bay-leaves, and the juice of half a lemon ; put half 
of aU the above under the meat, and half on it ; cover, 
and leave thus two days in winter, and about eighteen 
hours in summer. 

It certainly improves the meat and makes it more 
tender. The tenderloin may be improved as well as any 
other piece* 

Then place the meat on the spit before and near a 
very sharp fire* • Baste often with the seasonings, if you 
•have improved the meat ; or with a little melted butter, 
if you have not. -Continue basting with what is in the 
dripping-pan. 

Beef must be placed as near the fire as possible, with- 




166 BEEF. 

out burning it, however ; and tben, as soon as a coadng 
or crust is formed all around, remove it by degrees. Ee- 
member that the quicker the crust is formed, the more 
juicy and tender the meat. 

Nothing at all is added to form that kind of crust It 
is formed by the osmazome of the meat, attracted by the 
heat, and coming in contact with the air while revolving. 

Beef is more juicy when rather underdone ; if good, 
when cut, it has a pinky color inside. 

Koast beef may be served with the drippings only, 
after being strained and the fia,t removed. 

It may Also be served in the following ways : 

With Potatoes, — Fried potatoes may be served all 
around the meat, or on a separate dish. Also, potato 
croquettes. 

With Horse-radish, — Grate horse-radish, mix it with 
the drippings, and serve in a boat 

With a Garniture, — Mix gf liver garniture with the 
gravy, add lemon-juice, place all aroimd the meat, and 
serve. 

With Truffles. — ^Place the garniture of truffles on and 
around the meat, turn the drippings on the whole, and 
serve. 

With' Tomatoes. — Surround the meat with stuffed to- 
matoes, strain the gravy on the whole, and serve. 

On PurSes. — Spread either of the following j9ttr^e» on 
the dish, place the meat over it, strain the drippings on 
the whole, and serve : 

Puries of asparagus^ heans, cauUfloui^rs, ceUry, Lxtml 
beans, onions, green peas, potatoes, and mushrooms. * 

With Cabbage, — Surround the meat with Brussels 
cabbages, prepared aujus; strain the drippings on the 
whole, and serve. 



BEEF. 167 

With Quenelles. — ^Place twelve qaenelles of cliicken 
»nnd tbe meat, and serve with the drippings. 

TO DECORATE.- 

When served in any way as described above, one or 
or more skewers may be ran through craw-fish and a 
ze of traffle, and stuck in the meat, or through sweet- 
sads aujusy and slices of traffics. It makes a beautiful 
d good decoration. 

The skewers may also be ran through chicken-combs, 
epared as for farce; first through a comb, then through 
slice of truffle, through a sweetbread, again through a 
ce of truffle, then through a craw-fish, and lastly a slice 

truffle, or the reverse, according to fancy. 

With Rice, — It is surrounded with rice croquettes, 
e drippings strained over the whole. 

We could put down some twenty or more other ways, 
it any one with an ordinary amount of natui*al capacity 
n do it; by varying the garnitures^ purees^ decorations^ etc. 

Cold roastrbeef is prepared like boiled beef. 

BAKED. 

Place the meat in a bake-pan, with cold water about 
quarter of an inch deep; spread salt, pepper, and a 
tie butter on the meat, cover it with a piece of buttered 
iper; baste often over the paper, lest' it should burn; 
iep the bottom of the pan covered with juice ; if the 
ater and juice are absorbed, add a little cold water and 
mtinue basting ; tura over two or three times, but keep 
e paper on the top ; if it is burnt, put on another piece, 
be paper keeps the top of the meat moist, and prevents 
from burning or drying. 

When done, it is served like uoasted beef. 




168 B£EF. 

.FILLET. 

The tenderloin and even the sirloin are sometimes 
called, or rather known^ under the name of fillet, when 
cooked. It comes from the French fikt — ^tenderloin. 

Sirloin means snrloin; like stock and several others, 
sirloin is purely English. The surloin is the upper part 
of the loin, as its prefix indicates ; it is surlonge in French. 

A fillet is generally larded with salt pork by means of 
a small brass larding-needle ; the salt pork cut in. strips 
to fit the needle {s^ Labdino). 

If you use a tenderloin, trim off the fat. If it is a 
piece of ribs, prepared fiUet-like, shape it like a fillet as 
near as possible ; the rest is used as directed above. 

A piece of ribs is certainly cheaper, and can be had at 
any time, while the other is as difficult to procure as it is 
dear. • 

To lard it. — ^Have a towel in your left hand and place 
the meat over it, the most fiat and smooth side up, holding 
it so that the upper part will present a somewhat convex 
surface, and commence larding at either end and finishing 
at the other, in this way : 

Run the needle through the upper part of the convex 
surface, commencing at about a quarter of an inch from 
the edge of one side, running through the meat a distance 
of about one inch and a half, about half an inch in depth 
at the middle, and the strip 6f salt pork sticking out at 
both ends ; that is, where the needle was introduced into 
the meat, and where it came out of it. Repeat this tiQ 
you have a row of strips across the meat, the strips being 
about one-third of an inch apart. 

Lard row after row in the same way, and till the whole 
fiat side. is covered ; the ends of the strips of pork sticking 
out of each row being intermingled. 



BEEF, 169 

To cook it — It may be roasted or baked exactly- in 
he same way as directed above for roast and baked beef. 
t may also be improved in the same way. 

When cooked in either of the two above ways, it is 
erved witb its gravy only, or — 

With fried potatoes. With tomatoes. 

With potato coquettes. With quenelles. 
With truffles. With Madeira-sauce. 

With green peas. 
Hie same as roast or baked beef above. It may also be 
lecorated in the same way. 

A fillet is also cooked exactly like beef h la mode^ with 
he exception that it doe!S not require as long ; for a large 
me, it requires only about three hours. 

When cooked thus, it is served with its gravy strained, 
nd decorated with skewers, as above. 

With Macaroni, — While the fillet is cooking, prepare 
. pound of macaroni aujus, aud serve the fillet on the 
ttacaroni spread on a dish ; the gravy, of the fillet being 
oixQd with the macaroni when both are done. 

Fillet a la Brillat-Savarin. — ^Cook it in a pan as 
hove, and serve it decorated with sweetbreads and slices 
f truffles, as described for roast-beef, and with a Cham- 
»agne-sauce. 

A la Chateaubriand, — ^This is prepared and served like 
be preceding "one, with a Madeira instead of a Champagne 
auce. 

Saute, — ^When cooked in a pan as directed above, 
ook mushrooms about ten miuutes in the gravy, and 
erve mushrooms and gravy all around the meat. 

A fillet saute is always made with a tenderloin. 

As is seen by the above receipts, all the good' pieces 
f beef may be prepared in the ways described, ribs as 
8 



170 BEEF. 

well as other pieces, and from the plainest to the most 
recherche way, from the cheapest to the most costly 
manner. 

Several names arc given to the different ways we have 
described, such as fillet financiere (fillet served with a 
ragout of chicken-combs), fillet E-ichelieu (fillet with half 
a dozen skewers), etc. 

En Bellevue. — ^This is the best way to serve it coli 
It may be served whole, or part of it, that is, what is left 
from the preceding dinner. For a supper or lunch, it is 
the most handy dish, as it can be prepared in advance. 
Make some meat jelly or calf's-foot jelly, put a thickness 
of about three-quarters of an inch of it in a tin dish or 
mould, large enough to hold the fillet ; then place on ice 
to cool, and when congealed and firn> enough, place the 
fillet on it, the larded side downward ; fill now with jeDy 
till the fillet is covered, and have a thickness of about 
three-quarters of an inch above it. 

The fillet must not touch the sides of the mould, bat 
be perfectly enveloped in jelly. If the thickness of jelly is 
even on both sides and all around, it is much more sightly. 
When the jelly is perfectly congealed and firm, place a 
dish over the mould, turn upside down, and remove it 
Serve as it is. 

As a tenderloin is very expensive and rather difficult 
to get, buy a fine piece of ribs, cut the fleshy part of the 
shape of a tenderloin, and prepare it as directed above ; it 
makes an excellent and sightly dish. The bony part with 
the rest of the flesh is used to make broth. 

RIBS. 

With Vinegar. — Put two ta'blespoonfiils of fat in a 
saucepan, and set it on the fire ; when melted, put- the 



BEBF. 171 

»eef in ; say a piece of tliree pounds, from the round, 
ump, or rib-piece ; brown it on every side ; add one gill 
f vinegar, salt, and a teaspoonful of pepper, cover the 
>an, and keep on a rather sharp fire for fifteen minutes ; 
hen add one carrot and one onion, both sliced, a stalk of 
hyme, three cloves, two bay-leaves, and six pepper-coms, 
. pint of broth, and same of water ; boil gently till done ; 
[isb the meat, strain the sauce over it, and serve. 

Ribs may also be broiled like steaks, and served either 
dth a maitre cThdtel, mushrooms, potatoes, or water- 
ress. The low cuts of beef are generally used to make 
)roth, or stewed. 

STEAKS. 

The best piece pf beef for a steak is the tenderloin. 

What is called a porter-house steak is the tenderloin, 
iirloin, and other surrounding parts cut in slices. 

A steak should never be less than three-quaiiers of an 
nch in thickness. 

It should always be broiled ; it is inferior in taste and 
iavor when cooked in a pan (saute), or other utensil, but 
nany persons cook it so, jiot having the necessary fire or 
itensil to brpil ; broiled or saute, it is served alike. 

The same rules are applied to steaks of venison, pork^ 
Jtc. ; turtle-steaks are also prepared like beef-steaks. 

A good steak does not need any pounding ; the object 
)f pounding a steak is to break its fibres. A pounded 
Jtcak may appear or taste more tender to a person not 
bowing or never having tasted a good steak, but an ex- 
perienced palate cannot be deceived. 

It is better to broil before than over the firq. (See 
Bboiung.) 

To cook a steak in an oven or drum', or any other 



j'-invented macLine or contrivance, ia not to broil it, 
» spoil it 

Fo make lender. — ^When cut, trimmed, salted, and 
lered, put them in a bowl, and sprinkle some sweet- 
r melted butter over them; turn them over in the 
I every two or three hours for from bis to twelre 

To cut <fnd prepare. — Cut the meat in round or oval 
B, as even as possible, of any size, about one inch in 
cness, and trim off the fibres and thin akin that may 
round. Do not cut off the fat, but flatten a little each 

with a chopper. 

To broil. — When the steaks are cut and prepared as 
;ted,thej are slightly greased on both aides with lard 
intt«r (if they have not been in « bowl with oil or 
er before cooking them), placed on a warmed gridiron, 
before or on a sharp fire, turned over once or twice, 

taken ofi' when rather underdone. Salt and pepper 
D, dish, spread a mattre d'hote! over them, and serve 

Cooks and epicures differ about the turning over of 
ks; also about broiling thsm with or without salt; 
e say that they must not be turned over twice, othen 
of opinion that they must be turned over two or three, 
even more times; some say that they most be salted 
peppered before broiling, others say they must not; 
bave tried the two ways many times, and did not find 
difference ; if there irany difference at all, it is in the 
ity of the meat, or in the person's taste, or in the 
t's care. 

When the steak is served as above, place some fried 
rtooB all around, and serve hot. Itfstead of fried pota- 
, put some watercress all around, add a few drops 



« BEEF. 173 

f vinegar, and serve. The water-cress is to be put on 
w and cold. 

When the steak is dished, spread some anchovy-butter 
D it instead of a maitre (Thdtel, and serve warm also. It 
lay also be served with lobster-butter instead of a maitre 
^hdtel. Steaks are also served with horse-radish butter, 
ad surrounded with fried or souffle potatoes. 

With a Tomato-Sauce.'^'BToil and serve the steak as 
irected above, and serve it with a tomato-sauce instead 
f a maitre (Thdtel. 

With a Poivrade or Piquante Sauce. — ^Broil and serve 
ith a poivrade or piquante sauce, instead of a maitre 
^hdtel. 

With Egg, — ^When the steaks are cut and prepared as 
irected, dip them in beaten egg, roll them in bread-crumbs, 
len broil, and serve them with either a mmtre d^hdtel or 
Dmato-sauce, or with potatoes, etc. 

With Truffles, — Set a saucepan on the fire with one 
unce of butter in it ; as soon as melted add half a table- 
poonful of flour, stir, and, when turning brown, add also 
bout a gill of broth ; stir again for five or six minutes, 
rhen mix three or four tablespoonfuls of good gravy with 
lie rest ; boil gently ten minutes, take from the fire ; slice 
«ro or three truffles, mix them with the rest ; add salt and 
epper to taste ; give one boil, turn over the steak which 
ou have broiled as directed, and serve. 

With Mushrooms. — ^Proceed as for truffles in every 
articular, except that you use mushrooms. 

Fancy Steak, — Cut the steak two or three inches 
bick, butter slightly both sides, lay it on a gridiron well 
reased and warmed ; set it on a moderate fire and broil 
i well ; to cook it through it must be turned over many 
imes, OD account of its thickness. Serve like another 



Bteat, with a_ maitre d'hdlel, poivrade, potatoes, or wale^ 
cresB, etc. 

BOILED BEEF. 

This is understood to he beef that has been used to 
make broth— a rump-piece or a rib-piece, Boned and tied 
with twine before cooMug it. 



BEEF. 175 

With Carvots and Turnips. — ^Remove the twine, and 
place the piece of beef on the middle of a dish, with car^ 
rots and tuniips, cut with a fruit-corer, prepared au ju8 or 
rlazed, and arranged all around it ; also, some skewers run 
ihrough pieces of barrot and turnip, and then stuck in the 
piece of beef. (See cnt p. 174.) Serve warm. 

With Brussels Cabbage, or Sprouts, — Serve the beef 
!is above, surrounded with sprouts au jus^ and also orna- 
mented with skewers run through sprouts, with a piece of 
bnmip between each. 

In Bcmrgeoise, — Serve the piece of beef warm, deco- 
rated if handy, and surrounded with fried potatoes cut 
with a vegetable spoon or in fillets, and gravy spread over 
the whole. 

If not decorated, a few sprigs of parsley may be spread 
on the beef. • 

With Onions. — Serve the beef as above, and surround 
it with glazed onions. 

With Celery, — ^When served as above, the meat is sur- 
rounded' with a puree of celery. 

With Cauliflowers. — Serve warm, with a garniture of 
cauliflowers all around. It may be decorated with 
skewers. 

With Gliestnuts. — ^Glaze chestnuts as for dessert ; run 
the skewers through a chestnut first, then through a fried 
potato, and then through a slice of carrot, and stick one 
at each end of the piece of beef; put chestnuts all around, 
spread some gravy over the whole, and serve warm. 

In Croquettes. — Proceed as for croquettes of chicken. 

JETollandaise. — Cut the meat in fillets and put it in a 
saucepan, with about two ounces of fat or butter to a 
pound of meat ; set on the fire and stir for ten minutes. 
Then add a tablespoonful of flour and stir about one min- 



176 BEEP. 

nte, with warm water enough, to half cover .the meat, and 
hoil about five minutes, stirring now and then. 

Mix together in a bowl two yolks of eggs, the juice of 
half a lemon, and two or three tablespoonfuls of the sauce 
from the saucepan in which the beef is ; turn the mixture 
into the saucepan, stir and mix, add salt and pepper to 
taste, give one boil, and serve warm. 

broiled, — Cut the meat in slices about one inch* in 
•thickness, broil, and serve like steaks. 

Au Gratin, — Put two ounces of butter in a saucepan 
on the fire, and when melted sprinkle into it two table- 
spoonfuls of bread-crumbs, two or three mushrooms 
chopped, a teaspoonfiil of chopped onions, same of para- 
ley, a pinch of allspice, salt, and pepper ; stir for about two 
minutes, add a little broth to make the whole rather liquid. 
Cut one pound of boiled beef in slices, place them in a 
tin or silver dish, turn the mixture over them, dust with 
bread-crumbs ; put half a dozen pieces of butter here and 
there on the top, and bake for about fifteen minutes. 

Take from the oven when done, add a few drops of 
lemon juice all over, and serve warm in the dish in which 
it was baked. 

With a maitre cTkotelj piquante, Mayonnaise, Bobert, 
ravigote^ Tartar, or tomato sauce. 

Cut it in slices, place them on a dish, spread on them 
some chopped parsley and slices of pickled cucumbers, 
and send thus to the table, with either of the above sauces 
in a saucer to be used with it. 

IN MIROTOK 

Put a piece of butter the size of an egg in a stewpan 
(this is for about two pounds), and set it on the fire ; when 
melted, put in it four middling-sized onions, cut in slices; 



BEEF. 177 

when nearly cooked, sprinkle on them a pinch of flour, 
and stir till it takes a golden color ; then add half a glass 
of white wine, and as much of broth, also salt, pepper, 
and a little grated nutmeg ; boil until well cooked, and till 
the sauce is reduced ; then add the boiled beef, cut in 
slices, and leave it fifteen minutes ; dish it, pour on a few 
drops of vinegar, and serve. 

Hashed. — ^Proceed exactly as for miroton^ except that 
the beef is cut in strips or chopped, and that no wine is 
used. 

EST SALAD. 

Cut it in very thin and short slices, and place them on 
a dish with chopped parsley ; put in a saucer sweet-oil and 
vinegar, according to the quantity of beef you have, two 
tablespoonfiils of oil to one of vinegar, salt, pepper, and 
some mustard ; beat the whole a little, pour on the slices, 
and serve. 

CORNED BEEF. 

Corned beef is generally boiled. Soak the corned 
beef in cold water for some time, according to how salt 
it is. 

Set it on the fire, covered with cold water, and boil 
gently till done. 

With Cabbage, — Blanch the cabbage for about five 
minutes, and drain. Then put it to cook with the corned 
beef when the latter is about half done ; serve both on 
the same dish, or separately, according to taste. 

Corned beef, when boiled as above, without cabbage, 
can be served and decorated, in every way, like boiled 
beef. It certainly makes sightly as well as good dishes 
for a family dinner. 

A piece of coraed beef, surrounded with a garniture 
8* 



178 BEEF. 

as we have described above, decorated with 
very often served as a releve at an extra dinnei 
Cold Corned Beef. — A whole piece, or par 
bo served en Bellevtte, the same aa a JilUt en j 
is also excellent 

TONGDE. ■ 

Glean and blanch it for abont ten minat 
white skin can be easily removed. After ten n 
ing, try if it conies off; if not, boil a little 
•eldn it welL 

To boil. — When eldnned, pnt it in joni 
vrith the beej| etc., to make broth, and leave 
When boiled, the tongne may be served sa 
exactly the same aa boiled beef^ in every way. 

Stewed. — Cut square fillets of bacon, wbic 
a mixture of chopped parsley, oives, salt, pe 
little allspice; "lard the tongue with the filleta 
crockery atewpan two ounces of bacon cut i 
sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, one of i 
two bay-leaves, a clove of garlic, two cloves, 
cut in pieces, four small onions, salt, and pepj 
" tongue on the whole, wet with half a glass of 
and a glass of broth ; ect on a moderate fire, : 
abont five bonra — keep it well covered; th 
tongue on a dish, atrfun the sance on it^ and i 
a delicious dish. 

It may also be served with vegetables aroi 
tomato-aance. . 

ATiother way. — When prepared as above d 
it on the fire with the same seasonings as thi 
one ; simmer four hours and take from the fiic 
tongue on a dish and let it cool, then place it oi 



BEEF. 179 

before a good fire, and finish the cooking ; serve it warm 
with an oil, or jpiguante sance. 

K any is lefl of either of the two, pnt in a pan the 
next day, wet with a little broth, set on the fire, and when 
warm serve it on a purSe ; do not allow it to boil. 

BRAIN. 

Soak it in lukewarm water and clean well, so as to 
have it free from blood, fibres, and thin skin ; then soak 
it 2^ain in cold water for twelve hours in winter and six 
in summer. Put in a crockery stewpan one ounce of ba- 
con cut in slices, one carrot cut in pieces, two sprigs of 
parsley, one of thyme, a bay-leaf, a clove, four small onions 
cut iQ slices, a teaspoonful of chopped cives, salt, pepper, a 
pint of white wine, as much of broth, and then the brain ; 
set on a moderate fire for half an hour and take it off; 
dish the brain and place it in a warm place ; then strspn 
the sauce, put it back on the fire with the brain in it, add 
two or three mushroonis cut in pieces, leave on the fire 
from ten to fifteen minutes, and serve it, parted in two, 
with Med parsley around. 

Another ti^ay.— ^When the brain is • cleaned and pre- 
pared as above, cut it in eight pieces. Mix well together 
a littte flour, chopped parsley and cives, also a pinch of 
allspice ; roll the pieces of brain in it, so as to allow the 
mixture to adhere to them ; have some butter in a frying- 
pan on the fire, and when hot put the pieces of brain in 
it ; fry gently, and serve with fried parsley around. 

HEART. 

Soak it in lukewarm water for two hours, free it from 
blood and skin, drain and wipe dry ; then stuiff it with 
sausage-meat, to which you have added three or four onions 



180 



BEEF. 



chopped fine, put it in a rather quick oven, or on the spit 
before a good fire (if on the spit, envelop it with buttered 
paper), basting from time to time ; it takes about an honr 
and a half to cook a middling-sized one ; serve it with 
a vinaigrette, piquante^ paivrade, or ravipote sauce. 

It may also be Med with butter, and cut in slices, but 
it is not as good as in the above way ; it generally becomes 

hard in fiying. 

KIDNEYS. 

First split the kidneys in four pieces, trim off as care- 
fully as possible the sinews and fat that are inside, then 
cut in small pieces. 

Saute, — The quicker this is done the better the kidney. 
For a whole one put about two ounces of butter in a fiy- 
ing-pan and set it on a very sharp fire, toss it round so as 
to melt the butter as fast as possible, but without allowing 
it to blacken ; as soon as melted, turn the cut kidney in, ' 
stir now and then with a wooden spoon for about three 
minutes, then add a tablespoon^ of flour, stir again the 
• same as before for about one minute, when add a gSl of 
white wine and about one of broth ; stir again now and 
then till the kidney is rather underdone, and serve im- 
mediately. 

If the kidney is allowed to boil till perfectly done, it 
will very seldom be tender. 

It may be done with water instead of wine and broth; 
in that case, add a few drops of lemon-juice just before 
serving it . 

Prepare and serve it also as calfs-kidney, in every way 
as directed for the same. 

LIVER. 
Cut the liver in slices a quarter of an inch in thick- 
ness, sprinkle on them salt and pepper, place them on a 



BEEF. 181 

gridiron, and set on a sharp fire ; turn over only once, and 
serve rather underdone, with butter and chopped parsley, 
kneaded together and spread between the slices. 

A few drops of lemon-juice may be added. 

Another way. — ^When the liver is cut in slices, as 
above, put a piece of butter in a frying-pan on the fire, 
and when melted, lay the slices in ; turn over only once, 
then serve, with salt, pepper, vinegar, and chopped 
parsley. 

TAIL. 

Cot the tail at the joint, so as to make as many pieces 
as there are joints ; throw the pieces in boiling water for 
fifteen minutes, and drain them. When cold and dry, 
put them in a saucepan with a bay-leaf, two onions, with 
a clove stuck in each, two sprigs of parsley, and one of 
thyme, a clove of garlic, salt, pepper, half a wine-glass of 
white wine, and a few thin slices of salt pork ; cover with 
broth or water, and set on a moderate fire for two hours. 
Dish the pieces, strain the sauce on them, and serve with 
a garniture of cabbage, or with any puree. 

TRIPE. 

How to clean and prepare, — Scrape and 'wash it well 
several times in boiling water, changing the water every 
time, then put in very cold water for about twelve hours, 
changing the'water two or three times ; place it in a pan, 
cover it with cold water; season with parsley, cives, 
onions, one or two cloves of garlic, cloves, salt, and pep- 
per ; boil gently five hours, take out and drain. 

In case the water should boil away, add more. 

You may save. all the trouble of cleaning and prepar- 
ing, by buying it ready prepared, as it is generally sold 
in cities. 



182 BEEF. 

Broiled. — ^When prepared, dip it in lukewaim butter, 
roll in bread-crumbs, place on a gridiron, and set it od a 
moderate fire ; turn aver as many times as is necessary to 
broil it well, and serve with a vinaigrettej piquantefOi 
Tartar sauce ; also with a tomato-sauce. 

Stewed. — ^Put in a stewpan two ounces of salt pork, 
cut in dice, tbree carrots cut in slices, eight small onions, 
four cloves, two bay-leaves, two cloves of garlic, a piece 
of nutmeg, four sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, a dozen 
stalks of cives, six pepper-corns, the fourth part of an ox- 
foot cut in four pieces, salt, pepper, about two ounces of 
ham cut in dice, then three pounds of double tripe on the 
whole ; spread two onnces of fat bacon cut in thin slices 
on the top ; wet with half white wine and half water, or 
water only if you choose ; put the cover on, and if not 
air-tight, put some paste around ; set in a slow oven for six 
hours, then take the tripe out, strain the sauce, skim off 
the fat when cool, then put the sauce and tripe again in 
your pan, warm well, and serve in crockery plates or 
bowls placed on chafing-dishes, as it is necessary to keep 
it warm while eating. It is good with watar only, but bet- 
ter with half vnne. This is also called h la mode de C5m». 

In Poulette. — ^When cleaned and prepared as direct- 
ed, cut one pound of tripe in strips about one and a half 
inches broad, then cut agam contrariwise, so as to make 
small fillets. Put one ounce of butter in a saucepan with 
half a tablespoonful of flour, and mix cold ; add two gilb 
of water, mix again, set on the fire, stir now and then, give, 
one boil, put the tripe in, salt and pepper to taste ; boil 
two minutes and dish the whole ; put a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley all over, and serve hot: 

Aux Fines Herhes. — ^Broil the tripe, and serve it with 
sauce fines herbes. 



BEEF. 183 

Tripe may be bought pickled ; it is then served at 
^akfast and Innch. 

SMOKED BEEF'S TONGUE. 

Soak the smoked tongue in cold water for at least three 
UTS, change the water once or twice during the process, 
en take off the thin sMn or strip around if there is 
Y ; put the tougue in a saucepan with two sprigs of 
nne, two of parsley, a bay-leaf, two 'cloves, six small 
ions, and a clove of garlic ; fill the pan with cold water, 
d let simmer about six hours. If the water is boiling 
ay, add more. Take from the. fire, let cool as it is, then 
ce it out of the water ; clean it, let dry, and serve it 
len cold. 

Cut the tongue, when prepared as above, either in 
ces or in strips, and use for sandwiches, or serve it 
lole, with a cucumber, piquanUj jpoivrade^ or tomato 
ace, at breakfast or lunch. It may also be served in 
migrette, * • 

When prepared as directed above, serve it as a fillet 

beef en Bellevhey for supper, lunch, or breakfiast. It 
akes a fine and delicious dish. 

It is used 'also to stuff boned turkeys and other birds, 

directed in those receipts ; always boil it as directed 
►ove, before using it. 

When served with any of the above sauces, it may be 
icorated with skewers the same as boiled beef. 

Larded. — When boiled, lard it with salt pork, and 
ike it for about one hour in a rtioderately heated oven, 
id serve it with the same sauces as above. 

Cut in slices and served with parsley, it is a kors- 
oeuvre. 



MUTTON. 



HOW TO SELECT. 

YoTT may be sure that mutton is go< 
flesh is rather black, and the fat irhite ; if t 
easily, it is young. 

The wether is much Boperior to the ewe. 

You will know if a leg of mutton c( 
wether, if there is a large and hard piece 
side at the larger and upper end ; if from a e 
is merely a kind of skin, with^ little fat on ■ 

ROASTED. 

A piece of mntton to roast must not' be t 
mnch more tender when the meat ia rather t 
not tinted, or what is sometimes called "hi 
on the spit, place it near the fire, baste imm 
a little melted butter, and then with the dr 
Boon as you notice that a kind of crust or 
formed around the piece of meat, remove it 
the fire by degrees ; and continue basting til 
quicker the crust is formed, though without 
meat, the more juicy and tender it will be. 

Eoast mutton, like roast beef, is better i 
underdone, but shonld be a httJe more don 
When properly roasted, tJie meat, whatever pi( 



MUTTON. 185 

ither a loin or saddle, a leg, shoulder, or a breast, may be 
jrved with its gravy only ; that is, with what is in the 
ripping-pan after having removed all the fat, also on a 
nibise or on a puree of sorrel. The above pieces may 
so be served in the following ways : 

With Potatoes. — When dished, surround the meat 
ith potatoes, either Med, mashed, or in croquettes. 

With Quenelles. — ^pish the meat, place half a dozen 
uenelles around it, and decorate it with skewers which 
>u have run through a quenelle and then through a craw- 
•h. and stuck in the. meat 

With Carrots. — When dished, put all around the 
eat carrots au jus, or glazed and cut with a vegetable 
oon. 

With Spinach. — Spinach au jus when done is spread 
I the dish, the meat is put on it, and served warm. Do 
e same with a puree of cauliflowers. 

BAKED. 

All the above pieces are baked as well as roasted; 
d when done, served exactly in the same and every 
IV as when roasted. 

Put the meat in a baking-pan with a little butter spread 
er it ; cover the bottom of^the pan with cold water, 
en put in a quick oven. After it has been in the oven 
r about fifteen minutes, baste and place a piece of but- 
red paper on the top of the meat. If the bottom of 
e pan is getting dry, add a little more water, but it is 
[dom the case except with inferior meat When you 
B rather too much fat in the pan, take from the oven, 
m the fat ojBT, put cold water instead, and put back in 
e oven to finish the cooking. If the paper bums, put 



186 MUTTOW. 

on another piece ; but by basting often ov 
will remain pretty long before burning. 

With a small knife or a skewer you 
done enough, or to your liking ; never c( 
by hearsay; the oven may be quicker 
another, or slower; the meat may be n 
more hard; remember that if you cooi 
mean, to put down, aa a matter of course, 
many hours, or so many minutes, to bake t 
stick to it, you will fail nine times out 
done, serve as directed above. 

In Croquettes, — Make and serve aa ch: 
In Haricot or Ragout. — Take a neck 
of mutton, which cut in pieces about two 
one broad. Put them in a saucepan (eai 
with two ounces of butter, set on the fir 
Bionally till turning rather brown, then ac 
fill of flour, stir for one minute, cover w 
add one onion whole, salt, a bunch of 
posed of four ppriga of parsley, one of th 
and a clove, one clove of garlic, chop; 
gently till about two-thirds done, stirring 
add potatoes, peeled, quartered, and cut, 
_ sible, of the shape of a carpel of orange, 
is, about as many pieces of potatoes us 
again gently till done, place the pieces 
middle of the dish, the potatoes around, tl 
over the whole, and serve. Skim off tht 
fore taming the sauce over the rest. 

BEEASr BOILED. 
Put the breast entire in a saucepan, i 
thyme, two of parsley, a bay-leaf, a clove. 



MUTTON. 187 

T, cover with water, set on tlie fire, boil gently till 
►oted, and then drain. Put in a frying-pan three table- 
joonfuls of sweet-oi), a teaspoonful of chopped parslej^, 
.It, and pepper ; when hot lay the breast in and fry it all 
'ouTid for five minutes ; then take it off, roll it in bread- 
•umbs, place it on a gridiron, and set on a good fire for 
jre min'ntes ; turn it over once only, then serve it with a 
Iquante^ poivrade, or tomato sauce. It may also be 
jrved on a puree of sorrel. 

NECK BROILED. 

Prepare and serve exactly the same as a breast broiled. 

A breast or a neck piece broiled may be served on a 
mbise. It .may also be served with a maitre cPhdtel or 
mshroom sauce, also with a piquante or any other sharp 
luce. 

CHOPS. 

Broiled, — ^Trim and flatten the chops with a chopper, 
prinkle salt and pepper on both sides, dip them in melted 
utter, place them on a gridiron, and set on a sharp fire, turn 
ver two or three times to broil properly, and when done, 
erve them around a dish, one lapping over the other, 
tc, and serve with the gravy. It takes about twelve 
ainutes to cook with a good fire. 

Another way, — ^When trimmed and flattened, dip them 
ti beaten eggy roll them in bread-crumbs and broil, either 
s they are, or enveloped in buttered paper, and serve 
hem with a maitre d^hdtel sauce. 

Sautes, — ^When trimmed and flattened, fry them 
nth a little butter on both sides ; then take the chops 
rom the pan and put them in a warm place. Leave in 
he pan only a tablespoonful of fat, add to it three times- 
s much broth, a teaspoonfiil of parsley and green onions, 



^ 



188 MUTTON. 

two shallots, two picMed cucumbers, all chopped fine, and 
a pinch of allspice ; gi^e one boil, pour the whole on the 
chops^ also the juice of half a lemon, and serve. 

The same, mth Vegetables. — ^Put in a frying-pan a 
piece of butter the size of two walnuts for four chops, set 
on a good fire, and when hot lay the chops in, after hav- 
ing flattened them with a chopper, and having sprinkled 
salt and pepper on both sides ; add a clove, and a teaspoon- 
ful of chopped parsley and green onions ; leave thus five 
minutes, turn over once or twice ; then add also half a 
wine-glass of broth, same of white wine, and finish the 
cooking. Take the chops ojff the pan and put them in a 
warm place. Boil the sauce in the pan ten minutes, tnm 
it on the chops, put a garniture of vegetables ground, and 
serve. Throw away the clove just before serving. 

Another way, — Have a piece of butter the size of aa 
e^gg for eight chops in a crockery vessel, and set it on a 
good fire ; when melted take from the fire, lay the chops 
in, after having flattened them ; then cover them with a 
sheet of buttered paper ; place the vessel in a rather hot 
oven, and when cooked serve them on a maitre cPhMi 
provenpale, or tomato sauce. They may also be served on 
a puree of sorrel, or one of potatoes. 

The same, in Papillote,-*—Cut the chops rather thb, 
beat them gently and flatten them ; then proceed as for 
veal cutlets in papillotes in every particular. 

Finandere.-^'BTOil the chops, either with or without 
egg and crumbs, and serve them with a financihre garni- 
ture. 

Soubise. — ^The chops are either broiled or fried ; either 
broiled only dipped in lukewarm butter or in beaten egg 
and crumbs and then served on a soubise. A little lemon- 
juice may be added when they are on the dish. 



-_j 



MUTTON. 189 

Jardiniere, — Cut two carrots and two turnips with a 
egetable spoon and set on the fire with cold water and 
alt ; boil gently till tender, and drain. Boil also in the 
ame way, in another pan and till tender, two tablespoon- 
Ilk of green pe«^, or string-beans cut in pieces, and drain 
Iso. Then put carrots, turnips, peas, or beans, back on 
he fire, in the same pan with a little gravy and broth, 
nough to cover them, salt, and pepper ; boil gently five 
aimites; then put the chops in after being fried as 
lirected below ; boil another five minutes ; take from the 
ire, place the chops around the dish, one lapping over the 
ther, and so that an empty place is left in the middle ; 
im the carrots, turnips, and peas, with the sauce in that 
mpty place, and serve. Salt and pepper the chops on. 
oth sides ; fly them, in a little butter till about three- 
uarters done ; then take off and put with the vegetables 
s directed above. They may be broiled instead of Med, 
hich is better. 

A la Princesse. — Trim the chops as usual and salt and 
epper both sides. Chop very fine a piece of lean veal, 
bout half a pound for six or eight chops, according to 
ze, then pound it and mix it with half a teaspoonful of 
our, a pinch of nutmeg, salt, pepper, a yolk of ^gg^ two 
iblespoonfuls of bread-crumbs and one ounce of butter. 
' too firrii the butter must be melted so as to mix better, 
ut the mixture in a saucepan, s6t on a good fire, stir for 
jn minutes, and take ofil Then grease the paste-board 
ightly with butter, put a teaspoonful of the mixture here 
id there on it, roll and make small balls of it, drop them 
. boiling broth or water, boiling about fifteen minutes, 
id take off with a skimmer. Dip the chops in melted 
itter, then in beaten eggs, and roll in bread-crumbs ; fry 
lem with a little butter. Fry the balls also. Place the 



-^ 



190 MUTTON. 

cliops on the dish, the bones toward the edge, and the 
balls between the chops; serve warm. A few balls may 
be placed in the middle. 

With Mushrooms, — ^Broil and serve them vnthapuree 
oF mushrooms, or with a mushroom garniture. 

Mutton chops, broiled, may be served with every Mnd 
of butter, every garniture, and every sauce, according to 
taste ; they may also be served with every puree, 

A French cook once said he could serve mutton chops 
in three hundred ways, apples in two hundred ways, and 
egffs in four hundred ways. The culinary science and art 
is advanced enough to-day to double the above figures^ 
and have plenty to spare. • 

LEG. 

Besides being prepared as directed for roast mutton^ a 
leg of mutton, roasted or baked, may be served in the 
following ways : 

Boil white beans and drain them as directed, then put 
them on the fire with the drippings of the leg of mutton 
jfbr ten minutes, stirring now and then, and serve them with 
it They may also be kept in the dripping-pan for ten 
minutes, when boiled and drained, before the leg is done. 
If the leg of mutton is baked, set them on the fire for 
about ten minutes, with the gravy, stirring occasionally. 
Serve either on the same or on a separate dish. 

With Currant Jelly, — ^Roast or bake the leg of mut- 
ton, and serve it with currant jelly or with ^ puree, 

Provengale, — ^With a sharp-pointed knife, make a small 
cut in the leg of mutton here and there, and large enongh 
to stick into the cut a clove of garlic. Make as many cuts 
as you please, from six to twenty, according to taste, and 
in each cut stick a clove of garlic. When prepared tbns, 



aniTTON. . 191 

>ast or bake, and serve it with either of the following 
lUces: piquante^ poivradcy ravigote, remolade, Robert, 
lallot, Tartar, tomato, and in vinaigrette. 

Decorated, — ^A leg of mutton may be decorated the 
me as a fillet of heet 

Stewed. — Take the large bone out, leaving the bone at 
le smaller end as a handle ; cut off also the bone below 
le knuckle, and fix it with skewers ; then put it in a stew- 
m with a pinch pf allspice, four onions, two cloves, two 
HTots cut in four pieces each, a small bunch of parsley, 
vo bay-leaves, three sprigs of thyme, salt, pepper, two 
mces of bacon cut in slices, a quarter of a pint of broth, 
id water enough just to cover it ; set on a good fire, and 
%eT one hour of boiling add a liquor-glass of French 
randy. Let simmer then for about five hours, in all about 
X hours ; then dish it, strain the sauce on it, and serve. 

We would advise those who have never tasted of a leg 
P mutton cooked as above, to try it. 

It may be served also with white beans cooked in wa- 
jr and fried in butter, or on fried potatoes. 

The. next day. — If you have a piece left for the next 
ay, cut it in thin slices after dinner, place the slices on a 
ish, with parsley under, in the middle, and above, and 
eep in a cold place. 

A while before dinner you put in a stewpan a piece of 
utter (the* quantity to be according to the quantity of 
leat), and set it on a good fire ; when melted, sprinkle in, 
radually, a little flour, stirring with a wooden spoon ; when 
f a proper thickness, and of a brownish color, add a glass 
f broth, salt, pepper, a few pickled cucumbers cut in slices, 
od two or three mushrooms ; boil ten minutes ; lay the 
lices of meat in, subdue the fire, simmer twenty minutes, 
Qd serve. 



192 



UUTTOS. 



The same, in another way, — ^Chop fine the slices of leg 
of mutton, put a piece of butter in a stewpan, and set it 
on the fire ; when melted, place tiie chopped meat in, keep 
stirring with a wooden spoon for about ten minutes ; then 
add two or three tablespoonfuls of broth, salt, pepper, and 
a pinch of allspice ; simmer fifteen minutes, and serve with 
Med eggs all around the dish. 

Boiled. — Set a saucepan on the fire with cold water 
enough to cover the leg of mutton, add salt; at the first 
boil put the leg of mutton in, wrapped up in a towel 
Boil gently tiU done. For a middling-sized one, it takes 
about two hours. Remove the towel, dish the leg of mnt- 
ton, spread a caper-sauce over it, and serve hot The 
sauce may also be served in a boat or saucer. 

Cold, — ^What is left of it may be prepared like cold 
mutton: in vinaigrette. 



SHOULDER. 

Shoulder honed, — Split the shoulder just in the middle, 
on the inside, lengthwise and following the middle of the 
bones ; remove the flat bone at the larger end first. This 
is easily done by scraping the meat off tte bone on both 
sides, and then pulling it off. Do the same with the remain- 
ing bone. Spread the shoulder open on the table, the 
inside up, salt and pepper it, then spread on it the same 
stuffing as for a chicken stuffed with sausage-meat. RoU 
the shoulder round, tie it with twine, and roast or bake it. 
When roasted or baked, serve with the gravy. 

On a Puree, — Bone and roll the shoulder as al>ove 
directed, but do not stuff it ; roast or bake it, and serve it 
on a puree of potatoes, beans, peas, lentils, or any other 
vegetable ; place the shoulder in the middle of a dish, cat 
it in slices, and place them all around the puree, one lap- 



MUTTON. • 193 

LBg-^ver the other ; turn the gravy over the whole through 
strainer, and serve hot. 

With a Sauce, — ^When baked or roasted as above, 
ith or without stuflfing, serve it with a piquante^ ravigote^ 
r Robert sauce. 

Boiled, — ^Boil, and serve it with a caper-sauce, the 
ime as the leg, 

SADDLE. 

Prepare, cook, and serve the saddle in the same way 
J the leg — ^roasted or baked, warm or cold. 

COLD MUTTON. 

Served cold, ct la Vinaigrette, — ^A shoulder of mutton, 
)asted or baked, after beiug boned, makes a handsome 
ish served cold. Cut any piece of cold mutton that you 
lay have, in thin slices, as evenly as possible. Place a paste- 
itter, about an inch and a half in diameter, in the mid- 
le of an oval dish ; then place the slices of meat all around 
le dish, one slice lapping over another; the dish being 
7al, the slices of meat will touch the paste-cutter on two 
des, but there will be two empty places on the two* 
ther sides, which you fill with hard-boiled white of egg 
lopped fine, and hard-boiled yolk of egg chopped fine 
so ; they must not be mixed, and the yolk must be 
rther from the paste-cutter, the white touching it. Put 
string of chopped yolk of egg ^11 around the meat, and 
itside of it one of chopped white of egg around the yolk, 
id one of chopped parsley around the white. Remove 
le paste-cutter, and put a rose, or two or three pinks, in 
s place, or a small bunch of violets. Place one or three 
ipers on each small heap of yolk of egg that is on the 
iddle of the dish, and also some capers here and there 
1 the string of white of egg, 

9 



1 



194 MCTTOK. 

Place a rose at eaoli .»' 

end of the dish, as g 

indicated in the cut S 

oppoMte ; aix radishes ° 

around the dish, also jj 

as indicated. in the cut, ^ 

and yoo have a dish as ^- 

Bightly as can be made, ^ | 

and an excellent one, 3 

too. Serve with the J 

following aauce in a ^ 

boat or saucer: Put [J ^ 

in a bowl half a tea- *■ "e 

spoonful of mnstard, a " t 

little pepper and salt ; 1 - 

then pour one or two m g 

tabiespoonfuls of vin- 3 -z ' 



egar on, little by little, '' i 

beating with a fork at § "' 

tlie same time ; c^ain, >" . 

three or faur table- | | 

spoonfuls of on, and in g - 

■the same way; and ^! 

' when the whole is well ^ 
mixed, serve.. 

bhEep's brain. 

Prepare, cook, and serve as calfs brain. 



Broiled. — Throw them in boiling water for ten minutes, 
clean and scrape off the hmr and take out the large bone. ! 
Put in a saucepan a bay-leaf, ono clove, a tablespoonAd . 



^.J 



MUTTON. * 196 

)f vinegar, a clove of garlic, two sprigs of parsley, two 
rreen onions, salt, pepper, a piece of butter the size of 
wo walnuts, half a pint of broth, then a dozen feet on 
he whole ; set on a slow fire, simmer one hour, stir now 
nd then, take from the fire and let cool. Then dip each 
oot in beaten eggj and roll it in bread-crumbs ; place them 
>n a gridiron ; turn over to broil both sides properly, and 
erve them with the sauce in which they have been 
ooted, after having strained it. They may also be served 
n a piquante, poivrade, raviffote^ or Robert sauce. 

In PouUtte, — ^Prepare and clean them as directed 
,bove. Put in a saucepan four, ounces of salt pork cut in 
iice, two ounces of lard, salt, and white pepper ) when 
vann, add three sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, a bay- 
eaf, one clove, four onions, and one carrot, cut in slices, 
I quarter of a lemon, also cut in slices, free from rind and 
eed, two tablespoonfuls of flour ; this last must be added 
►y sprinkling it little by little, stiriifeg the while with a 
Fooden 8j5oon ; five minutes after, place the feet in, cover 
he whole with warm water, and let simmer gently for 
ive or six hours. After that time see if the me&t can be 
asily detached from the bones, and if so, they are cooked ; 
f not, leave them a little^ longer, and tajfe from the fire 
,8 soon, as it is easily detached, but do not detach it. 
?ut in a stewpan a piece of butter the size of two wal- 
ints ; when meltIB, sprinkle in it a tablespoonful of flour, 
tir with a wooden spoon, then put the feet in, add a tea- 
poonftd of chopped parsley and green onions, a little 
iece of nutmeg, salt; pepper, and two or three mush- 
ooms cut in sHces or pieces; wet with broth; simmer 
aJf an hour, take from the fire, and throw away the 
iece of nutmeg; mix with the whole two yolks of eggs 
^ell beaten and a tablespoonfdl of vinegar, and serve. 



196 ■ MUTTON. 

SHEEP»S KIDNEYS, BROILED. 

Split them in two, and put them in cold water for five 
minntes ; trim oft' the pellicle or thin skin, run a skewer 
through, sprinkle salt and pepper on, place them on the 
gridiron, and set on a good fire ; turn over, and when 
broiled, serve them with a piece of butter and chopped 
parsley kneaded together, and placed on each kidney ;. add 
also a few drops of lemon-juice. 

You may also, when broikd, serve them on a maiire 
d^ hotel sauce. 

The same, in Brochette. — Proceed as above in every 
particular, except that you place the kidneys on the spit 
instead of on the gridiron. Serve them in the same way. 

The iame, wilji Champagne. — Cut the kidneys in slices, 
each in ten or twelve pieces. Put in a stewpan a piece 
of butter the size of two walnuts, and set it on the fire; 
when melted, add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, same 
of mushrooms, a piAh of grated nutmeg, salt, pej^per, 
and the kidneys ; keep tossing till they become stifl^ then 
sprinkle on them a saltspoonfal of flour, stirring with a 
wooden spoon the while ; add also a wine-glass of Cham- 
pagne, or of good white wine ; subdue the fire, and let 
simmer till cooked ; take -from the fire, add . about one 
ounce of .fresh butter, and the juice of half a lemon, and 
serve. This is a v^ry delicate dish. 

SHEEFS TAILS. 

Put in a stewpan two ounces of bacon cut in slices, 
with a bay-leaf, two sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, one 
clove, six small onions, one carrot cut in four pieces, then 
about six tails ; cover the whole with broth and white 
wine, half of each; add salt and pepper. * Place the pan 
in a moderately heated oven ; it will take about four homs 



MUTTON, 197 

to cook them. After that time, take the tails from the 
pan, and put them in a warm place, then strain the sance 
in which they have cooked, skim off the fat if too mach 
of it, put the sauce hack in the pan, and set on the fire ; 
let it reduce till rather thick, place the tails on a purSe^ 
turn the sauce on them, and serve. 



SHEEP'S TONGUES. 

Soak the tonnes in cold water for two hours in winter, 
and one in summer, and drain. Throw them in hoiling 
water, and leave till you can easily take the skin off; then 
skin and clean w«ll, split in two lengthwise, and let cool. 
Put in a stewpan two ounces of bacon cut in thin slices, a 
bay-leaf, two sprigs of thyme, four of parsley, two cloves, 
three green onions and six small red or white ones, one 
carrot cut in four pieces, salt and pepper, then the tongues ; 
add also half a pint of broth, same of water, same of 
white wine ; set in a moderately heated oven, and sim- 
mer about four hours ; have the stewpan covered as nearly 
air-tight as possible. Then take the tongues from the 
pan and drain them ; knead well together two ounces of 
fresh butter, with two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley, 
a little salt and allspice.; spread some on each of the 
tongues as soon as they are cold ; envelop each in oiled 
paper, broil them gently on a slow fire, and serv^ with the 
paper. 

You may also when prepared and cooked as above 
directed, and instead of broiliDg them, place a puree on a 
dish, and serve them on a purSe, pouring on the whole 
the sauce in which they have cooked, and straining it at 
the same time. 

They are really more delicate when broiled. 



^ 



198 MUTTON. 

LAMB. 

To select — ^The flesh must be like that of mutton, 
rather black, and the fat white. 

There is no difference in the wether and ewe. The 
shorter the quarters are the better the meat, and the fore 
as well as the hind quarter.. • With the exception that the 
breast-piece is prepared also in ipigrammey and that it is 
cut itt quarters instead of dividing it like mutton, lamb 
may be prepared in the same and every' way like mutton. 
The quarters may be prepared like shoulder, leg, and sad- 
dle of mutton. 

Chops may be cut and prepared the same as mutton- 
chops. • 

Fore-Quarter. — ^According to the opinion of a great 
many epicures, the fore-quarter is the best part of the 
lamb ; but, as we have previously said, every one to his 
liking. 

Lard it slightly, and envelop it with buttered paper, 
place it upon the spit before a good fire ; when done take 
from the fire, and take the paper off, sprinkle on it salt, 
pepper, and chopped parsley ; put back on the spit before 
a sharp fire, just long enough to allow it to take a fine 
color ; then take off, run a knife under the shoulder to 
make- a small hole, pour maitre cThdtel sauce in it, and 
serve either as it is, with its gravy, or on a purie of 
sorrel. * » . . 

To hake it, — Put it in a baking-pan, spread a little 
salt, pepper, and butter over it ; cover it with a piece of 
buttered paper ; have the bottom of the pan covered with 
cold water and put in a warm oven, baste often till done. 
If the paper bums, put on another piece. Run a small 
knife or a skewer into the meat, to ascertain when proper 
ly done. 






MUTTON. 199 

It may be served with the gravy only, after having re- 
moved the fat, or with a piqtuinte, poivrade^ or maitre 
^hdtel sauce. 

It is also served with a garniture of mushrooms or 
Qions, or with a macedoine, or on a puree of spinach, or 
f sorrel. 

Hind-Qv>arter. — ^Throw it in boiling water for five 
linutes, and drain. Put in a stewpan a piece of butter 
be size of an egg^ and set on the fire; when melted, mix 
1 it a tablespoonful of fiour ; after which, pour in, little 
y little, a pint and a half of boiling water, stirring with 
wooden spoon all the time ; then put the meat in the 
an, add four onions, a bay-leaf, two cloves, three sprigs 
f parley, two of thyme, salt, and pepper ; about fifteen 
ainutes before it is done, add two or three mushrooms 
at in slices, tate from the fire when cooked, place the 
aeat on a dish with the mushrooms and onions around, 
r if preferred, without either ; strain the sauce on the 
Qeat, and serve. 

If the sauce is not thick enough, mix the yolk of an 
gg in it just before serving.. 

Roasted. — Roast and serve the hind-quarter in the same 
vay as directed for the fore-quarter. 

Baked. — ^Bake and serve it also in the same and every 
^ay like the fore-quarter. 

Bpigramme. — ^Put a breast of lamb in a saucepan, 
'Over it with cold, water, season with a small onion and 
>ne clove stuck in it, two stalks of parsley, a piece of 
:arrot, one of turnip, and salt. Boil gently till you can 
)iill off the bones easily. It may also be boiled in th^ 
oup-kettle while making broth. When the bones come 
>ff easily, take from the fire, pull out all the small bones 
md cut out the large one. Place the breast in a large 



200 



MUTTON. 



bakepan, with- some weight over so as to flatten it, and 
leave it so till perfectly cold. Then cut it in pieces of 
rhombic shape about four inches long and two inches 
broad; salt and pepper each piece on both sides; dip 
them in beaten egg, roll in bread-crumbs and fry them 
with a little butter, and serve on a tomato, piqtuinte, ravi- 
gote^ or souMse sauce, or on any puree. 

When the sauce is spread on the dish, place the pieces 
of lamb all around it, one lapping over the other, and 
forming a kind of oblong string, and serve warm. 

Another. — ^When the Spigramme is prepared as above 
and ready to be served, have as many mutton-chops as 
you have pieces of meat from the breast ; dish in the 
same way, except that you put one piece of the breast and 
then a mutton-chop fried in the same way as the pieces 
of meat ; the chops lapping over the pieces of breast, and 
vice versa. 

Broiled. — The same may be broiled instead of fiied, . 
and served in the same way. 

Boasted entire. — Skewer a lamb properly on the spit, 
envelop it with buttered paper, place before a good fire, 
baste often with melted butter first, and then with the 
drippinffs ; when nearly done take the paper off, let the 
lamb take a fine color around, and serve it with the gravy. 
It may be served with a garniture around and decorated 
with skewers, the same as directed for fillet of beef; it 
then makes a sightly as well as a delicious dish. 

Served with a garniture and decorated as directed for 
a fillet of beef, it is served as a releve at a grand dinner, 
%nd as an entree at a family dinner. 

Cold. — Cold lamb is served in every way like cold 
mutton. A part left from a roasted piece may be en- 
veloped in buttered paper, put on the spit just long 



MUTTON. 201 

longh to warm it, and served just in the same way as 
»ast lamb. 

Larnb^s headj feet, kidneys, etc., are prepared and 
!rved like the same parts o| the sheep, and as directed 
the diflferent receipts. 

EID. 

Prepare, cook, and serve kid the same as lamb. 
9* 



VEAL. 



Never buy too young veaL It is very easy to know 
it ; when too young, the bones are very tender ; they are 
more like nerves than bones; the meat is gluish, and 
has little or no taste. Epicures say that if a calf is 
killed before it is two months old, or at least six weeks, it 
is not fit for eating. We are of that opinion, although, 
perhaps, very few are allowed so long a life. We will 
therefore recommend our readers to beware buying too 
young veal ; many diseases, especially in cbUdren, come 
from eating it. 

When you broil or roast a piece of veal, baste often. 
Yeal is better when a little overdone ; it is not good, and 
operates like physic, if underdone. 

The best veal is that of a greenish color and very fet 
It is fresh when the eyes are fiill and smooth, and when the 
meat is firm. If the meat is yellowish or contains yellow- 
ish spots, it is not fresh. The veins must be red. 

To improve, — Chop fine a tablespoonfnl of parsley, a 
teaspoonfiil of shallots, same of green onions, a bay-leat 
two sprigs of thyme, two or three mushrooms, add to 
them, salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg ; cover the bot- 
tom of a tureen with half of each, put, on it the piece of 
veal you wish to. improve, cover with the other half of the. 
seasonings; .then pour gently on the whole two table- 



VEAL. 203 

oonfuls of sweet-oil ; leave' the veal thus about four or 
e hours in winter and about two in summer. 

ROASTED. 

The pieces of veal that are roasted are the loin^ leg^ ^ 
d shoulder. 

It may be improved as directed above or not, accord-* 
y to taste ; but we earnestly recommend it as not a little 
iprovement, but as a marked one, as everybody can try 
and judge, veal being naturally tasteless. 

There are three ways of roasting veal. We will de* 
ribe them, so that it can be done according to taste. 

1. Spread a thin coat of butter around the piece of 
al after being salted all around, put on the spit before 
good but not very sharp fire; near it, but not too 
uch so : veal being more tender than beef, it would also 
im much quicker. Baste often with melted butter first, 
id then with the drippings, and from the beginning to 
e end. When done, that is, when overdone, as veal 
ast always be, serve with the gravy only, or in the differ- 
it ways described below. 

2. Lard all the fleshy parts of the piece of veal with a 
rding-needle and strips of salt pork, the same«as a fillet 
■ beef, but which strips you roll in a mixture of parsley 
lopped, salt and pepper, before running them into the 
eat, and proceed as above for the rest. Serve also like 
»e above. 

3. After the piece of veal is improved as directed, 
>read the seasonings in which it has been improved all 
'ound it, then envelop the whole in buttered paper, which 
3U fasten with twine, put it on the spit, and baste often 
ith melted butter. It must be basted often to prevent 
^ paper from burning. About fifteen minutes before it is 



204 VEAL. 

done, remove the paper, put tlie meat a little nearer the 
fire so as to give it a fine yellow or golden color, finish the 
cooking till overdone, and serve also like the first, or No. 1. 

No matter which of these three ways the piece of veal 
is roasted, it is served in the same manner. 

With Asparagus, — ^When the roasted piece of veal is 
^dished) put a pur4e of asparagus all around, and serve 
warm. 

With Peas, — Spread one pint or one quart (according 
to the size of the piece of meat) of green peas auJtiSj on a 
dish ; place the meat on the peas, spread the gravy over 
the whole, and serve as warm as possible. 

With Quenelles, — ^Dish the roasted piece, place around 
it six or eight quenelles of chicken or of veal, strain the 
gravy on the whole, and serve warm. 

With Vegetables, — When roasted and dished, put any 
kind of vegetables, prepared aujus^ all around the piece of 
meat, and serve warm. 

With Sweetbreads. — ^Roast the piece of veal as directed, 
and when dished, place six sweetbreads, prepared au jus, 
tastefully around the meat ; strain the gravy over, and serve 
very warm. 

Decorated, — Every piece of roasted veal may be deco- 
rated with skewers, either served au jus or in any of the 
above ways. The skewers are first run through either of 
the following and then stuck into the piece of meat : slices 
of truffles ; chicken-combs, prepared as for garniture ; slices 
of sweetbreads or whole ones, prepared aujtcs; quenellet 
of chicken or of veal ; slices of carrots, turnips, beet8, all 
prepared au jus ; and mushrooms. One, two, three, or 
more to every skewer ; for instance : one slice of truffle, 
then one of turnip, a chicken-comb, then a slice of sweet- 
bread or a whole one, and then stick in the meat Frqp 



VEAL. 205 

to six skewers may be used. On a latge piece never 
t less than two, and no matter how many you use, al- 
ys have even numbers of them. 

BAKED. 

All the parts of veal that are roasted, that is, the loin, 
;, and shoulder, can be baked. They may be improved in 
i same way as to roast them. Put the piece of veal in 
bakepan; spread salt, pepper, and butter on it; cover 
J bottom of the pan with cold water, about a quarter 
an inch in depth ; place a piece of buttered paper on 
3 meat, and put in a warm oven. If the meat has been 
proved, the seasonings are spread over it before placing 
> buttered paper. Baste often with the water and juice 
the pan and over the paper, which you need not re- 
ve till about ten minutes befor^taking from the oven, 
in case it should bum ; then you must replace it by an- 
ler. It keeps the top of the meat moist, and it is more 
cy when done. • 

When properly baked (overdone, as every piece of veal 
st be), serve either au jus, or with the same garnitures, 

same decorations, as directed for roasted veal. 
Che^avy in the bakepan is strained, the fat skimmed 

and then it is turned over the meat and garnitures 
Bn dished, the same as the drippings or gravy of roast 
at. In case the water in the bakepan, or the juice, or 
h, should boil away or be absorbed, put more cold water 
it, so as to be able to baste. 

BLANQUETTE.— (^&o called PouleUe.) 

Take about two pounds of neck, breast, shoulder, or 
^ ojher piece, which cut in pieces, two inches square, 
ow them in boiling water, with a little salt, for five 



206 VEAL. 

minutes,* and drain them. Put in a stewpan a pieee of 
butter the size of an eggy set it on a good fire, and when 
melted mix .in a tablespoonM of flour, stirring all the time, 
and when turning yellow pour gently and slowly in the 
pan a pint of boiling water ; add a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley and green onions, salt, pepper, six small white or 
^ red onions, two or three mushrooms, and then the meat; 

boil gently about three hours, and serve. 

CROQUETTES. 

Proceed as for chicken croquettes in evety particular, 
except that you use cold veal instead of cold chicken. 

y/ RAGOOT. 

The neck and breast pieces are generally used to 
make a ragout, but tor other piece may be used. Take 
about three pounds of veal, which cut in pieces about two 
inches square. Put two ounces of butter in a saucepan, 
set it on the fire, and as soon as the butter is melted, lay 
the meat in, stir now and then till of a golden color, and 
then take the meat from the pan. Leave the pan on the 
fire, and put in it a tablespoonful of flour, little by little, 
keep stirring afcout five minutes; add also half a pint of 
broth, same of warm water, one onion with a clove stuck in 
it, a bay leaf, two sprigs of thyme, two of parsley, a clove 
of garlic, a sniall carrot cut in two or three pieces, salt and 
pepper, then the meat, and cover the pan. Half an hour 
after your meat is inj fi'y in butter in a frying-pan six 
small onions, which you also put in the stewpan as soon as 
fried. When the whole is cooked, place the meat on a 
dish, strain the sauce on it, surround the whole jfith the 
six small onions, and serve warm. ^ • 

In Scallops, — Take a piece from the loin or leg of 



VEAL. 207 

I, cut it in pieces about three inches lon^, two inches 
ad, and one-third of an inch thick, as evenly as possi- 

and flatten them with a chopper. Salt and pepper 
en on both sides, and fry them with a little butter till 
ut half done, on both sides alike. Add a little broth 

chopped parsley, and boil gently till done. Place the 
jes of veal all around the platter, one lapping over an- 
er, turn tbe sauce in the middle of them, and serve. 
Another. — Cut the veal in pieces as for the above ; beat 

or two eggs in a plate with salt, pepper, and chopped 
sley ; dip each piece into it and then roll in bread- 
tnbs ; butter a bakepan, place the veal iv with a small 
p of butter on each piece, and bake ; turn over to bake 
nly. Serve as the above, with a piquante* or tomato 
ze in tbe middle. • 

• 

BREAST, STEWED. 

Cut in dice two ounces of bacon, put it in a stewpan 

set on a good fire ; add two ounces of butter, and two • 
)n8 cut in slices ; when melted, lay the breast in, turn 
ver and leave till of a golden color on both sides ; add 
a two small carrots cut in pieces, one teaspoonful of 
pped green onions, three sprigs of parsley, balf a turnip, 
, and peppe?; moisten with half a pint of warm water; 
re tbus about three hours on a moderate fire. Strain 

juice in a 'dish, put the meat on it, and serve. 

The pieces of carrots £^nd of bacon may be served with 

meat, if you choose. 

The same, with Green Peas, — Cut the breast in square 
3es about two inches in size. Put in a stewpan a piece 
butter the size of an egg, and set it on the fire ; when 
ited, mix in it a teaspoonful of flour, then lay the meat 
and wet with half a glass of broth, same of warm wa- 



208 VEAL. 

ter, also twcf sprigs of parsley, salt, and pepper; stir now 
and then. One liour after add green peas, and leave on 
the fire till the whole is cooked, when sMm off the fat on 
the surface, and serve. 

In Matelote. — To make a matelote of veal any piece 
can be used, but most generally it is made with a breast or 
neck piece. Out the veal in square pieces about two inches 
in size ; have in a stewpan and on a good fire a piece of 
butter about the size of an ^gg\ when melted, put the 
meat in, stir now and then till of a golden color ; then 
take the meat from the stewpan, which you leave on the 
fire, and in which you put half a pint of warm water, same 
of claret wine, same of broth, a bay-leaf, two cloves, two 
sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, a clove of garlic, salt^ an<i 
pepper ; when turning l*own, put the meat back in the 
pan, and fifteen minutes before it is cooked add also ten 
small onions fried in butter beforehand and four or fire 
mushrooms, then have a brisk fire to finish the cookbg; 
place the meat on a dish, strain the sauce on the meat, 
put the ten small onions around it, and serve. 

Broiled, — ^Salt and pepper both sides of the breast of 
veal, grease it all over with melted butter, by means of a 
brush, and broil till overdone. Serve with a nutitre tThotd^ 
piqtiante, or poivrade sauce. 

CUTLETS. 

Broiled. — ^When properly trimmed, they may be im- 
proved as directed for veal. Salt and pepper both sides; 
spread a little melted butter on both sides also b'y means 
of a brush ; place them on, before, or under the fire (see 
Broiling) ; baste now and then with melted butter ; turn 
over one, two, or three times, and when rather overdone 
serve with a maitre d'hdtel sauce spread all over. 



VEAL. 209 

The above way of serving them is sometimes called 

uUurel. 

With Crumbs, — When trimmed, dip liiem in egg 

ien with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley, roll them 

)read-cnimb8, and then broil and serve them as the 

^e, with a maitre d^hdteL 

Fines Herhes, — ^Broil the chops as above, either with 

dthout crumbs, and serve them with sauce aux fines 

es, 

A ritalienne,"— When broiled as above, serve them 

I layer of macaroni Italienne, 

With Mushrooms, — When broiled and dished, sur- 

id them with a garniture of mushrooms, and serve 

B. When there are several cutlets on the dish, and 

ed all around overlapping, the garniture may be put 

be middle of the chops. 

Do the same with the following garnitures : chicken- 

bs, croutons^ duxelle^ financiere, Macedoine, and onion. 

y may also be served on any puree. 

Baked, — Trim six cutlets. Mix well half a pound of 

age-meat with two eggs. Put a piece of buttered 

3r large enough to cover the bottom of a bakepan in 

bh the six cutlets may be laid easily. Spread half the 

age-meat on the paper in the pan, then lay the cutlets 

t; put the other half of the sausage-meat over the 

3ts, and place the whole in a rather quick oven. Baste 

y five minutes with melted butter and broth, using 

Q alternately, and serve warm with the gravy when 

B. A few drops of lemon-juice may be added to them 

n on the dish, if liked. 

SautSes. — ^Trinf, and fiy them with a little butter. 

en done on both sides, add a little broth, salt, pepper, 

mushrooms and parsley chopped fine ; chopped truffles 



1 



210 VEAL. 

may be added, if liandy ; boil gently for about ten min- 
utes. Place the cutlets ardund the disb, one lapping over 
the other, tvrrn the sauce in the middle, sprinMe some 
lemon-juice over the whole, and serve warm. 

With Sauce. — When broiled, bated, or sauted^ they 
may be dished and served with either of the following 
sauces: fines kerhes, maitre cThdtelj piquante, poivrade, 
raviffote, tarragon^ tomato, or truffle. 

En Bellevue, — ^Proceed the same as for fillet of beeffli 
Bellevue, • 

In Papillotes, — ^Trim six veal-chops, spread salt and 
pepper on them, and fry them with a little butter till about 
half done. Take from the fire, and cut a small hole in 
the middle with a paste-cutter. While they are frying^ 
fiy with a little butter one onion chopped fine ; as soon 
as fried, add half a pound of sausage-meat ; stir now and 
then for about five minutes ; add also a pinch of cinna- 
mon, same of nutmeg ; take off and mix with the whole 
one yolk of Qgg^ a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, sah, 
and pepper. Cut six pieces of white paper of a heart-like 
shape, and large enough to envelop a chop; grease them 
slightly with butter or sweet-oil ; place some sausage-meat 
on one side of the paper (say half a tablespoonful),. jflace 
a chop on it ; put some sausage-meat on the chop and in 
the hole ; fold the paper in two ; then, by folding all around 
the border, the chop and seasonings are perfectly enveloped 
in the paper; put the chops in a baking-pan, spread a few 
drops of oil all over, and bake for about fifteen minutes in 
an oven at about 260 deg. Fahr. Instead of baking them, 
broil them carefully turning them over often and basting 
them to prevent the paper from buriilng, and serve with 
the paper on. They may be served on a duxelle garni- 
ture, or with a puree. 



VEAL, 211 

W>candeau.—^Take a piec^of veal of any aize, from 
leg, loin, or outlet .piece, about three-quarters of an 
in thickness, lard one side with salt pork, the same as 
et of beef. Put in a saucepan "(for two pounds of 
b) one ounce of butter, half a middling-sized onion, and 
luch carrot in slices, two or three stalks of parsley, 
of thyme, a bay-leaf, six or eight pepper-corns, and 
of the pork you have used ; spread all these season- 
on the bottom of the saucepan, put the piece of veal 
bem, the larded side up, set on a good fire for about 
m minutes ; after which you look if the under side of 
meat is well browne.d ; if so, add a gill of broth, put 
le oven and baste often, if- not, leave a little longer on 
ire. Add a little broth once in a while, to keep the 
Dm of the pan wet, and to have enough to baste till a 
I overdone, and serve with the gravy strained all over 
It is then called au jus,^ 

With Spinach. — Prepare and cook the fricandeau as 
e ; and when done, put some broth in the pan after 
Qg taken off the meat ; give one boil ; turn in the spin- 
dM jus ; stir on the fire one minute ; dish the spinach ; 
J XhQ fricandeau on it, and serve. 
With Sorrel, — ^Proceed as with spinach in every par- 
ar, except that you serve on sorrel au jus instead of 
ich. It makes a more delicate dish with sorrel, al- 
gh excellent with spinach. 

.t may also be served with green peas au jus or h 
flaise. 

Financiers — ^When prepared, cooked, and dished as 
3ted, surround it with a Jinanciere garniture, and serve 

irdinihre, — After being cooked and dished, put a 
edoine garniture around it, and serve warm. 



212 VEAL. 

SHQULI>ER. 

Boned. — Lay the sbouloer on the table, the inside up, 
split it just in the middle, lengthwise, and following the 
middle of the bones J remove the flat bone at the Ihi^t end 
first Do the same for the remaining bone. Then ^read 
the shoulder open, and salt and. pepper it. Fill the inside 
with sausage-meat; roll it of a round shape, and when 
properly tied with twine, roast or bake it, as directed for 
roasted or baked veal. It is then dished, decorated, and 
served in the same and every way as directed for roasted 
pieces of veal. 

It is an excellent dish served on either of the follow- 
ing purees: hearts^ celery^ lentils, peas, potatoes^ sornij 
spinachy or tomatoes. 

When served on a puree, it may be decorated with 
skewers, the same as when served with a garnitare. 

It may also be served with a piqtiahte or poivrade 
sauce. 

Stuffed. — ^Bone the shoulder as directed above ; spread 
it open, aud salt and pepper it, also as directed. Spread 
a coat of sausage-meat on it, about one-third of an inch in 
thickness, then put a layer of salt pork on the saosage- 
» meat ; then a layer of boiled ham ; again a layer of san- 
Bage-meat ; on this a layer of beef or sheep^a tongae, boiled 
The ham and tongue arc cut in square fillets, about one- 
fourth of an inch broad, and about two inches long. The 
tongues may be fresh or salted, according to taste. When 
filled, roll it so as to give it a round shape ; wrap it up in 
a towel and drop it in boiling water, to which you have 
added salt Boil gently for about four hoars, take the 
kettle from the fire and let cool. When cold take the 
shoulder off, wipe it dry and serve with meat jelly. The 
jelly is chopped, or cut in fancy shapes, or both. Some 



VEAL. 213 

»pped jelly may be placed all around the meat, and 

36 cut in fancy shapes with a paste-cutter or with a 

fe, and placed over it. 

It may also be decorated with skewers, as directed for 

sted pieces of veaL 

En Bellevtte. — ^When boiled and cold, prepare it like 

llet of heefen Bdlevru^ and serve. 

LOIN OR LEG STEWED. 

Have in a stewpan and on a slow fire three or four 
lespoonfuls of sweet-oil ; when ho| put the loin in, turn 
»yer till of a yellow color all around, then add a bay- 
', salt, pepper, and a pint of warm water ; simmer four 
ITS, and serve with the following sauce, which you must 
e prepared at the same time : Fry in butter till of a 
ien color ten middling-sized onions, then add to them 
I a glass of blaret wine, two tablespoonfuls of broth, and 
' of the juice of the loin, ten mushrooms (if handy) ; 
mer till cooked, and strain. Mix the sauce with 
juice of the loin, and put it on a dish, place the loin 
>n it, and serve with the onions and mushrooms around 
meat. • 

In case th^ juice of the loin should be found too fat, 
>w in it (and before mixing it with the sauce) a fipw 
ps of cold water, and skim off the fat 
The only thing to throw away before mixing is the 
-leaf. 

Another way^ or prepared with a Garniture of Cahhages, 
?ut in a stewpan and set on a good fire a piece of but- 
the size of an e^^g ; when melted, add four onions and 
► small carrots, cut in slices ; fiy them two or three 
rates, then put the loin in, with half a bay-leaf, wet 
h warm broth ; then subdue the fire, let sipimer about 



• 

1/ 



214 



VEAL. 



two hours and a half; strain the saiice on a dish, place the 
meat on it, and serve with a garniture of cabbages around. 



COLD VEAL. 

Cut the meat in slices and serve them on a dish, ar- 
ranged according to fancy, and serve with a piquante^ 
poivrade, Mayonnaise, Provenpale, ravigote, or remolade 
sauce. It may also be decorated and serve(f like cold 
mutton, in vinaigrette. 

Another way, — Put a piece of butter the size of an egg 
in a stewpan and se* on a good fire, mix in when melted 
two teaspoonfuls of flour, stir till of a brownish color, when 
add a saltspoonful of chopped parsley, four leaves of tarn- 
gon, salt, pepper, and half a pint of broth (more or less of 
the above according to the quantity of meat you have left), 
boil the whole fifteen minutes ; then, if what you have left 
is fi-om an entire piece, cut it in slices, lay them in the 
pan, and serve when warm enough, as it is. 

If what you have left is in pieces, or slices, you merely 
place them in the pan and serve with the sauce .wh^i 
warm. , 

BEAIN. 

To prepare, — ^Put the brain in a bowl of cold water 
and a tablespoonful of vinegar and leave it in from one to 
two or three hours, that is, till you are ready to use it, but 
do not leave it more than five or six hours and not less 
than one hour. Take it off, remove the thin skin and 
blood-vessels that are all around. 

To boil, — ^When prepared, put the brain in a small 
saucepan, cover it with cold water ; add two tablespoon- 
fols of vinegar, half an onion sliced, three, stalks of parsley, 
one of thynae, a bay-leaf, six pepper-corns, one clove, sah. 



VEAL. 215 

about five minutes and tale off the fire. Cut each 
of the brain in two, from side to side ; place the four 
es on a dish, the part cut upward. 
Au JBeurre Noir. — ^When dished as above directed, put 
ounces of butter in a frying-pan and when melted turn 

it 'two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, boil two or three 
iites, then throw into it half a dozen stalks of parsley, , 
! them'bff immediately with a skimmer, turn the butter 
vinegar over the brain ; spread the parsley around, and 
e. 

Stewed J or in Matelote. — ^When prepared as directed, 
it in a small saucepan and cover it with claret wine ; 
half an onion sliced, one clove of garlic, one clove, two 
gsof parsley, one of thyme, salt, a bay-leaf, six pepper- 
is, and boil gently for about fifteen minutes. Cut 

dish it as directed above; turn the sauce over it 
>ugh a strainer and serve — it is understood, the sauce 
?hich it has been cooked. 

Fried. — ^Prepare as directed, cut in about six slices, 
them in batter, and hj in hot fat {See direction for^ 

In Poulefte, — ^Prepare and boil it as directed, split 
b half of the brain in two or four pieces, place them 
eftdly on a dish, spread a poulette sauce all over, and 
•e warm. It may also be prepfred and served with a 
fiuinte sauce. When the piquante sauce is made, put 
brain or brains in, boil ten minutes, and serve as it is. 

EABS. 
They are prepared in every way like calf s head. 

FEET. 
To hoU. — Throw them in boiling water for five min- 
s, split them in the middle and lengthwise after having 



216 VEAL. 

taken off the large bone . and hair, and tie them with a 
string. Put a piece of butter the size of two walnuts in a 
stewpan and set it on the fire, when melted add a teaspoon- 
ful of chopped parsley and green onions, half of each, a 
quarter of a lemon cut in slices, salt, and pepper, then the 
feet ; wet with a glass of warm water ; boil gently two or 
three hours, take from the fire and when nearly cold' dip 
them in bread-crumbs, place them on a gridiron and set 
on a good fire, baste slightly with the juice in which they 
. have cooked, and serve with fried parsley around. 

The same, in PouUite, — ^Prepare and cook them as 
above. When you take them from the fire, instead of 
dipping them in bread-crumbs, put them in a pouleiU 
sauce, simmer ten minutes, and serve. 

Fried, — ^When boiled and drained dry, dip them in 
beaten egg, roll io bread-crumbs, fry in hot fat, and serve 
with green parsley all around. 

In Vinaigrette. — ^Boil them as directed and drain them 
drj. When perfectly cold, serve them with a tfinaiffrette, 

CALF'S HEAD. 

Sow to prepare. — When the hair is oflF and the whole 
head well cleaned (this is generally done by butcheis ; 
but if not^ throw the head in boihng water for fiv6 mm- 
utes and scrape the haft off with a knife immediately afta 
taking it from the water), put it then in cold water for 
twenty-four hours in winter and ten in summer, chanp^ng 
the water two or three times. 

To hail. — It mav be boiled whole or after it is boned. 
If boiled whole, cut a hole on the top of the head and 
take off the brain w^ithout breaking it ; put it in cold 
water immediately and as directed. Then set the head on 
the fire in a saucepan, covered with cold water, salt, one 



VEAL. 217 

lion sliced, half a leiaon, four stalks of parsley, one of 
lyme, a bay-leaf, two cloves, two cloves of garlic, ten 
ipper-coms, and two tablespoonfuls of vinegar; boil 
mtly till done. Bone it before using it. 

When boiled after being boned, the brain is taken off 

the same way as above and put in cold water also ; then 

le tongue is cut out and boiled with the skin of the 

3ad, etc., with the same seasonings as when boiled whole. 

is then ready for use, but leave it in the water till 
anted ; it would become tough if exposed to the air. 

In Poulette, — Put about two ounces of butter in a 
ucepan, set it on the fire, when melted turn in one table- 
'oonful of flour ; stir, and as soon as it commences to 
m yellow add half a pint of broth, stir again, and when 
ickening, add the calf s head cut in rather large dice, 
ve .one boil, take from the fire, add the yolk of an Qg^ 
id about a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, stir, give 
other boil, and serve. 

In Vinaigrette, — Leave it in the water till perfectly 
Id ; .or, if wanted immediately, as soon as boiled, take 
oflf and put in cold water to cool, and use. Cut the 
>ad in large dice and serve it with oil, vinegar, salt, pep- 
T, mustard, and parsley chopped. 

JBroiled, — Prepare and boil the calfs head as directed. 
3 soon as cool, cut it in about half a dozen pieces, dip 
em in beaten eggs, roll them in bread-crumbs,. and broil 
►Jh. sides till turning of a gold^i color; serve warm 
tb a maitre cThdtel sajice, or with ancho\y or horse- 
iish butter. 

Juried. — Calf's head may be fried as soon as prepared 
d boiled ; but most generally, it is only what has been 
't from the day before that is fried. Cut it in small 
sees about two inches square, dip them in melted butter, 

10 ' 



218 VEAL. 

roll them in bread-crambs, and fry* them in hot fat. Serve 
hot, adding lemon-juice when the pieces of calFs head are 
on the dish. 

En Tortue, or Turtle-like, — There are two ways of 
preparing calf s head en tortue : 

1. When it ig prepared and boiled as directed above, 
drain it dry, cut it in pieces as for frying it; put them in 
a saucepan with once ounce of butter, set on the fire, stir 
for two minutes, add nearly a pint of Madeira wine, sim- 
mer gently for about half an hour ; dish the meaty add a 
little lemon-juice all over, and serve warm. Some lu- 
nettes of chicken may be placed all around, as a decoration ; 
or a garniture of mushrooms. 

2. Prepare and boil the calPs head ; drain it dry and 
cut it in pieces about two inches square. Dish the pieces 
either mound-like, or around the dish, one lapping ov» 
the other, and turn the following over it, and serve warm : 
Put a Jinanciere garniture in a saucepan with a pint of 
Madeira wine, set on the fire and boil gently for about 
twenty minutes; take from the fire, spread over the 
pieces of calf's head, and serve. 

Some hard-boiled eggs cut in four or eight pieces, 
lengthwise, mny be placed all around the dish ; or some 
pickled cucumbers, cut in fancy pieces, or some quenelles 
of veal or chicken. 

HEART. 

To prepare. — Soak it in lukewarm water for about 
three hours, trim it and free it from skin, blood, and small 
fibres ; then drain and wipe it dry. Stuff or fill it with 
sausage-meat, to which you add previously two or three 
onions chopped fine. * 

To cook, — ^When thus prepared, envelop it in buttered 



VEAL. 219 

jr, set on tlie spit before a good fire, baste often, re- 
e the paper a few minutes before taking it from the 
then serve warm with a piqtmntey poivrade, or ravir 
sauce. It may also be served with a vinaigrette. 
To hake, — When prepared as directed above, put it 
baking-pan ; spread a little butter over, put a little 
T in the bakepan and set in a quick oven, baste and 
over two or three times, and when done, serve with 
yravy and the same sauces as if it were roasted 
^n Gfratin. — Soak, drain and wipe it dry as directed. 
3ut it in slices and put them in a crockery or other 
turn a white sauce all over, then sprinkle on half a 
)f vinegar or the juice of a lemon, dust with bread- 
bs, put half a dozen lumps of butter, each about the 
of a hazelnut, all over^ bake in a rather quick 



KIDNEYS. 

laute. — ^When prepared as directed below, cut it in 

3 as directed for kidney in brochettes. Then put a 

of butter the size of half an egg in a frying-pan and 

on the fire ; when melted, sprinkle in a teaspoonful 

>ur, stirring with a wooden spoon the while, add half 

ae-glass of white wine, a tablespoonfiil of broth, a 

1 of chopped parsley, salt and pepper, boil ten 

bes and lay the fillets in ; have a quick fire, and as 

as cooked dish them, spread the sauce over, sprinkle 

few drops of lemourjuice, and serve. 

b prepare, — ^Never cook a kidney except it be very 

Prepare in the following way, a beef, sheep, or 

kidney. Pig's kidneys are excellent if they have no 

reeable taste, but it is very often the case. The bad 

niay be partly taken away by blanching the kidney. 



220 



VEAIi. 



but it makes it tougli and tasteless ; it is better to throw 
it away. 

In Brochettes. — Split the kidney in four lengthwise, 
and then cut it in rather small pieces. Cut fat salt pork 
in pieces of the same size as the pieces of kidney — ^the 
fatty part of the kidney must not be used — then salt and 
pepper the pieces of kidney ; take a. common skewer and 
run it through a piece of kidney, then through a piece of 
salt pork ; repeat this till the skewer is full. Fill as many 
skewers as are necessary till the whole kidney is used ; 
and then roast before a good fire, basting often with 
melted butter. Serve warm. 

Another way. — Prepare as above, and instead of roast- 
ing, put the skewers in a bake-pan, spread a little butter 
over the kidney and salt pork, cover the bottom of the 
pan only with cold water, and bake. While in the oven, 
turn over and baste occasionally. 

Serve as the above, with its gravy, and warm. 

^wo^Aer.-^— Skewer the kidney, or rather pieces of kid- 
ney and salt pork as above ; dip them in beaten egg, roll 
them in bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat. Serve 
warm, but without gravy. 



LIGHTS. 

Cut them in four pieces, soak and wash them three or 
four times in lukewarm water, changing the water each 
time ; press them with the hands to extract all the blood 
Place the lights in a stewpan, cover them with cold water, 
and set on a good fire ; boil two minutes, take them ofl^ 
throw them in cold water, and drain them ; cut the lights 
in dice. Have butter in a stewpan on the fire, and |rben 
melted, lay the lights in, fry five minutes, keeping them 
tossed the while, then sprinkle on a tablespoonful of floor, 



VEAL. ' 221 

ing all the time with a wooden spoon ; pour on, little 
ittle, about a pint of warm broth, also a saltspoonful 
hopped parsley, a pinch of allspice, salt, pepper, a bay- 
and sprig of thyme ; have a brisk fire, and when 
it half done, add four or five mushrooms, and eight 
11 onions. When the whole is cooked, take oflf bay- 
and thyme, then take from the fire, beat two yolks of 
i with a tablespoonfiil of vinegar, and mix with the 
ie, turn on a dish, and serve. 

CALF'S LIVER. 

How to prepare, — ^HaviB water, with a little salt, on the 
and at the first boiling, throw the liver in for about 
minutes, and drain it 

How to improve the Liver be/ore cooking it — ^Put in a 
en two tablespoonfuls of sweet-oil, a bay-leaf broken 
)ur pieces, two sprigs of thyme, four of parsley chop- 
fine, a green onion also chopped fine, salt, and pepper ; 
the liver on the whole, and leave it from four to six 
PS, turning it over two or three times. 
How to cookf roasted. — ^Envelop the liver with but- 
d paper, place it on the spit before a good fire, baste 
n with the oil from the tureen, after having taken off 
■leaf and thyme. A few minutes before it is done, 
) the paper off, baste continually with the drippings 
well cooked, and serve it with the* gravy. 
It may also be served with a piquante or poivrade 

It takes from thirty-five to forty-five minutes to 
tit 

The same, saute, — ^Put two ounces of butter in a fry- 
pan, and set it on a sharp ^le ; when melted, add a 
poonful of chopped parsley and green onions, then the 



222 



VEAl. 



liver cut in slices (after having been prepared as above) ; 
sprinkle on a saltspoonftil of flour, then half a wine-glass 
of warm broth, same of claret wine, salt, pepper, and a 
pinch of allspice ; serve when done. 

It takes only from ten to twelve minutes for the whole 
process. 

The samBj in the Oven,—'P\Lt two ounces of butter in a 
frying-pan on a sharp fire; when hot, put the liver in 
(after having been boiled as directed above, and after hav- 
ing cut it in pieces) ; fry it five minutes, turning over 
once only ; then take from the fire, salt both sides of the 
slices, place them on a warm dish, putting on each slice a 
little butter kneaded with chopped parsley, salt, and pep- 
per ; put two or three minutes in a. warm oven, take ofl^ 
sprinkle on the whole the juice of half a lemon, and 
serve in the dish in which it has cooked. 

The same, stewed. — ^Boil the liver as directed above, 
and when drained and cold, lard it well. Have butter in 
a frying-pan on a brisk fire ; when hot, put the liver in 
for about ^ve minutes, turning it over on every side. 
Have in a stewpan four ounces of bacon cut in dice ; set 
it on a good fire, and when hot, lay the liver in ; then add 
a glass of warm broth, same of white wine, a bay-lea^ a 
sprig of thyme, two of parsley, a clove of garlic, two 
cloves, and a small carrot cut in two ; cover the stewpan, 
subdue the fire, and let simmer three hours ; stir now and 
then, place the liver on a dish, strain the sauce on it, and 
serve. 



CALFS PLUCK. 

Put the pluck in cold water for twelve hours in winter 
and four in summer ; change the water once, drain, and 
throw it in boiling water for ten or fifteen minntes ; take 



VEAL. 223 

and throw in cold water to cool, and drain it. Cut 
pluck in pieces, and cook it like calf's head, and 
'e with the same sauce. 

CALF'S TAIL. 

Take two tails, cut each in two, throw them in boil- 
water for three minutes, and drain. Cut a cabbage in 
►, trim off the stump, throw the two halves in boiling 
icr, with a little salt, for fifteen minutes, and drain it. 
u in a tureen the tails, cabbage, six ounces of lean ba- 
, two sprigs of parsley chopped fine, same quantity of 
en onions, two cloves, a little piece of nutmeg, a clove 
rarlic, salt, and pepper ; cover the whole with half broth 
. half water, and boil gently till cooked. Then take 
cloves, nutmeg, and garlic, turn the remainder on a 
a, and serve. 

TONGUE. 

Prepare, cook, and serve a calf's tongue, in the same 
every way like a fresh beef's tongue. The only dif- 
iDce is, that, being smaller, it is seldom decorated. 
It may be split in two, lengthwise and nearly through, 
ued and served thus, with slices of pickled cu- 
ibers. 

SWEETBREADS. 

To prepare. — Soak them in cold water for about an 
ir. Take off and remove the skin and bloody vessels 
t are" all around. For two sweetbreads set about one 
b of water on the fire in a small saucepan with salt, a 
lespoonful of vinegar, a few slices of onion, six pepper- 
as, a clove of garlic, two cloves, six sprigs of parsley, 
of thyme, and a bay-leaf; boil two minutes, drop the 
etbreads in, boil one minute and take them off. Drop 



224 VEAL. 

them immediately in cold water and leave them in for 
from two minutes to an hour. Put them on a flat surface 
with a board over, and leave them thus till they are per- 
fectly cold and rather flattened. 

Au Jus, — Trim them a little, so as to give them a 
better appearance. Lard the top or smooth side, then 
butter the bottom of a pan, spread a few slices of onion 
on the butter ; add a bay-leaf, a clove, two stalks of pars- 
ley ; place the sweetbreads on the whole, the larded side 
up, cover the pan and set on a good flre, or in a rather 
warm oven ; about ten minutes after, add two or three 
tablespoonfuls of broth, baste now and then till done. If 
the broth is absorbed before the sweetbreads are done, 
add some more. Dish the sweetbreads, turn the gravy 
over them through a strainer, and serve. 

Another way, — Prepare as above directed ; then, in- 
stead of larding it, you knead well together two ounces 
of butter, a teaspoonful of shallots and parsley well chop- 
ped, half a clove of garlic, salt, and pepper ; place the 
whole in a stewpan, with the sweetbreads on it, and thin 
slices of bacon on the sweetbreads ; set the pan on a good 
fire, and add then half a glass of broth, same of white 
wine ; simmer till cooked ; dish the sweetbreads, throw a 
few drops of cold water in the sauce, skim off the £it, 
strain the sauce on the sweetbreads, and serve. 

When the sweetbreads au jus are dished as directed, 
place tastefully, all around, either of the following garni- 
tures: cauliflower^ chicken-combs, duxelle, financierey mush- 
rooms, liver, Macedoine, quenelles, and truffles. Besides 
these garnitures, the sweetbreads may be decorated with 
small skewers, run through a boiled craw-fish and a small 
quenelle of chicken or. of veal. One or two skewers may 
be stuck in each sweetbread. 



VEAL. 225 

The sweetbreads, when several are served at a time, 
X be placed on the dish, either around it, forming a 
id of crown, or forming a pyramid, or in any other 
y, according to fancy. They may also be served with 
auce firmz herhes, 
10* 



PORK. 



TO SELECT. 

When the rind is tender and thih, the pork is young; 
when thick and hard, it is old. 

To be good, the meat niust ^e soft, and have a fresh 
and good appearance. 

We do not think it necessary to indicate here how U 
make black puddings, chitterlings, Bologna, and other 
sausages. It is nearly, if not quite impossible, for a per- 
son having no practice in it, to make them edible ; it is 
better to buy them ready made at pork-butcbers' shops, or 
to hire an experienced person to make them. 

CHINE AND FILLET. 

Take a good chine of pork, place it on the spit before 
a sharp fire, baste often with a little melted i)ntter firsts 
and then with the drippings ; when properly cooked, serve 
it with a vinaigrette, Robert, piquante, or poivrade sauce. 
It will take from two to three or four hours to roast, ac- 
cording to the size of the chine. 

HOW TO IMPROVE THE CHINE OF PORK. 

Place it in a crockery vessel, pour on it two table- 
spoonfuls of sweet-oil, then sprinkle on two teaspoonfrils 
of chopped parsley, also salt and pepper, two onions 



POEK. 227 

opped fine, four clones, and two bay-leaves ; leave thus 
enty-four hours in winter, and ten in summer, turning 
er two or three times. The taste of the mgat is much 
proved by that process. The oil may be used for bast- 
r instead of butter. 

Baked. — ^Put the thine in a bakepan, sprinkle salt over 

cover the bottom of the pan with cold water, and put in 

•ather quick oven, baste often, and in case there should 

much fat in the pan, take it off and add a little cold 

,ter. 

"When overdone, serve with any of the following 
trees : beans, lentils, Lima beans, onions, peas, potatoes, 
rrel, or spinach. 

It may also be served with the following sauces : fines 
rbes, ptquante, poivradey Proven^aUy ravigote, remoladey 
obert, tarrcbgon^ Tartar^ and vinaigrette. 

It is served also with a tomato-sauce. Make more 
ice for pork than for other dishes, and make the tomato- 
ice rather thick by boiling it gently for some time ; it 
;tes better so with pork. 

Always use mustard with pork, if you like it. Horse- 
iish, also, is good with it. 

CUTLETS. 

Flatten the cutlets with a chopper (they may be ira- 
oved in the same way as the chine), place them on the 
idiron and set on a sharp fire ; turn over two or three 
aes, and when properly, done, serve them with a piquante, 
yberty or tomato-sauce, adding to them some shoes of 
jkled cucumbers just before serving. 

The same, sautees. — ^Instead of broiling them, when 
spared as above, place them in a frying-pan with a little 
tter, turn over two or three times during the cooking, 
d serve as the above, or on a purSe of sorrel. 



228 POKE. 

LEG, ROASTED? 

How to improve it — ^Take the skin or rind gently off, 
put the leg*in* a crockery vessel, pour on it the folloMring 
mixture: a pint of white wine, two tablespoonfuls of 
sweet-oil, a bunch of sage, salt, pepper, and Si pinch of 
grated nutmeg. Leave it thus two days in winter and one 
in summer, turning it over two or three times during the 
process. 

Place the leg on the spit and put before a very sharp 
fire, baste often with the mixture from the crockery vessel, 
or with melted butter, and serve when cooked, with the 
gravy strained. It will take about two or two and a half 
hours to roast it. 

Baked, — ^Bake and serve the leg in the same and every 
way as the chine, with purees and sauces. Any part of 
pork is' prepared like chine. 

Ham in Hors-cP ceuvre, — Cut the ham in small and thin 
slices, place the slices tastefully on a dish, either oveiiap- 
ping or in pyramid, or in any other fancy way, and serve 
with parsley in the middle or around. Slices of lemon 
may also be served with it, either with the parsley or 
without it. 

HAM. 
♦ 

To boil. — Sugar-cured are preferred to others. 

Scrape off the outside gently, soak in cold water for 
from six to twenty-four hours, take off and wipe dry. 

Envelop it in a towel and tie it. Place it in a kettle 
large eno'ugh to hold it without bending it; cover with 
cold water ; season with six small onions, two carroty four 
cloves, two bay-leaves, a handfiil or two plants of parsley, 
two or three stalks of thyme, two of celery, two cloves of 
garlic (a handful of hay and half a bottle of white wine. 



FOBS* 229 

landy would improve the taste) ; boil gently for four or 
3 hours, according to the size (four hours for a ten-pound 
e, five for a fifteen-pound one). Pay no attention to the 
[ saying that " it takes half an hour to every pound." 

Take from the fire, remove the towel, break off and 
Qove the small bone at the larger end of it, and without 
ring the meat Bemove the rind also, leaving only 
>ut two inches of it near the smaller end, cutting it so 
kt it will be dentilated. 

To decorate, — ^It is decorated in several ways, accord- 
; to taste and fancy. If the fat is not white after 
;ring removed the rind, spread a very thin coat of lard 
ir it, place the ham on a dish, the fatty side up. Cut 
rots, turnips, and beets, boiled tender, in fancy shapes, 
>h paste-cutters or with a knife ; place them tastefully 

over the ham; place also all over it some parsley, 
vers, and olives. Chop some meat-jelly and put it all 
and the dish, and serve. In carving it, scrape back 

lard and vegetables, slice, and serve. 

Another, — ^When boiled, trimmed, and the rind re- 
ved, put it in the oven for about twenty minutes, bast- 
; the while with a Madeira sauce. Serve with the 
ce. Any kind ofpurSe may be served with it. 

Another, — When trimmed and soaked in water as di- 
ted, boil it with half wine and half water : the same 
sonings as when boiled in water. Use either Catawba, 
iterne, or Rhine wine. It makes it more expensive, 
i it is excellent. It is served as when boiled in water. 

Another, — Boil it in claret wine, and when trimmed 
I decorated, serve it with a mushroom or a truffle sauce. 

Another, — Boil, trim, and cut off the rind as described 
the above cases ; place the firiU, and serve with spinach 

beurre. 



Another. — Boil and 
trim the ham as above, 
■ cut the rind iu the 

Bame way. What is g 

left of the rind is cnt tt 

as seen in tho cat op- ^ 

posite: that is, Bome ^ 

small square pieces are f_^ 

cut ofi^ from place to | 

place, so that it re- J 

Bembles a checker- | 

hoard; stick two or S 

mora skewers in it, ^ 

glaze it with essence 5 

of beef or with bu- " 

gar, and serve either g 

on a tomato-sauce I 

or on peas cc rAn- " 

!,lau,. I 

Ham English faxh- % 

ion. — Soak it in water " 
and trim it as directed. 
Make some paste with 
water and fionr only ; 

Bpread a coat of this paste all over the ham, and then en- 

Telop it in buttered or oiled paper. Put it on the spit and 

baste with fat while it is roaating. Eoaat it for three or 

three and a half hours, according to eize ; remove the paper 
abont two hom« after it has been taken from the fire ; cnt 
a hole in the paste aboat an inch in diameter and on the 
lean side ; pour into it, little by htlle, haJf a pint of good 
Madeira wine, cover the hole with some paste, placing a 

band of paper on it to prevent it Eirom falling ; put tho 



POBK. 231 

m back on the spit for about twenty minutes, and serve 
lole with Madeira sauce. We mean, by serving whole, 
th the paste around it, but not the paper. 

Besides the sauce, some green vegetables^ boiled only, 
i served on separate dishes, but eaten with the ham. 

It is also served like game, with currant-jelly, apple- 
ice, etc. 

Champagne Sauce, — ^Proceed as for the above in every 
rticular, except that you use Champagne instead of Ma- 
ura wine, and when done serve it with a Champagne 
ice. 

Another, — It may be boiled as directed above, and 
•ved with a Champagne sauce also. 

Another. — ^When soaked and dry, put it in a crockery 
3sel ; put on and aU around it four onions chopped fine, 
o bay-leaves, two sprigs of thyme, a piece of nutmeg, 
d pour on the whole a bottle of white wine ; cover the 
jsel as nearly air-tight as possible, leave it thus for about 
enty-four hours, turning it over two or three times, so 
to let every side take the seasonings. Place the ham on 
3 spit before a good fire, baste often with the seasonings 
►m the crockery vessel, and when done take it off^, dust 
with fine raspings of bread, place it fifteen minutes in a 
»w oven, strain the drippings, boil them tiU reduced to a 
oper thickness, dish the ham, pour the drippings on it, 
d serve. 

SALTED PORK. 

The best and only proper way to cook salted pork, is, 

put it in a kettle, entirely cover it with cold water, boil 

ntly tUl cooked, and serve it with a purie or with a gar- 

ture of cabbage. Any thing else that you might put 

Ith it would rather spoil than better it. 



FIG'S EABS. 

Hmo to pr^are. — Soak them in warm water for a ftw 
minutes, thea wash and clean them well, and scrape the 
h^ off, if any. 

Boiled. — ^Wben prepared, you throw them in boiling 
water for two minutes and take from the fire ; add four 
onions for four ears, one carrot, salt and pepper ; leave jnit 
water enough to cover the whole, and when cooked, drain. 
Serve them on a puree of beans or of lentils. 

The tame, broiled. — When cleaned, prepared, and 
cooked as above, just dip them in beaten eggs, roll them 
in bread-crumbs, place on the gridiron and on the fire, 
.broil for about two or three minutes ; then serve them with 
a maitre iTkdlel eauce, 



BroUed, or & la Sainie Menehould. — Split siz feet in 

two, lengthwise, and soak them in tepid water for ten 

minutes, then envelop each in a piece of linen well tied 

or sewed ; place them in a kettle or etewpaa with four 

small onions, four sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, two of 

sweet basil, two bay-leaves, two cloves of garlic, two cloves, 

two smaU carrots cut in pieces, salt, pepper,, and half 

a pint of white wine ; cover with cold water, simmer 

about six hours, skini them properly, fill with boiling water 

. so as to have thorn covered all the lime; take from tho 

£re when cooled, and when nearly cool take the feet from 

:ettlc, untie them, throw aivay the linon, and let them 

Dip each in melted butter or in sweet-oil, roll in 

1-crumbs, and place on a gridiron and on a good fire; 

them as they are, when properly broiled. 

fluffed. — Prepare the feet and cook them as ahove^ 

n perfectly cold, remove the long bone of each baif, 



POEK. 233 

the place with sausage-meat ; dip each in melted butter 
L yolk of egg, mixed and seasoned with salt and pepper, 
in bread-crumbs, and broil. While they are broiling, 
te them with melted butter. Serve as they are, or with 
at-jelly, or gravy. 

Stuffed with Truffles, — Proceed as with the above in 
ry particular, so far as removing the long bone of each 
f, so as to be ready for stuffing them. 
Out truffles in small dice, enough to half fill the feet, and 
them on the fire in a small saucepan, just covered with 
deira wine ; toss and stir tiU the wi^e is absorbed and 
xly boiled away, then add a little gravy, stir half a 
mte, take from the fire and let cool. "When cold, fill 
h half foot till half full, and finish with sausage-meat ; 
n dip in butter and Qgg^ roll in crumbs, broil and serve 
;he above. 

They may be filled with truffles only, and served with 
atrjelly. 

PIG'S HEAD. 

Soak in water and clean it well ; take all the bones 
[ flesh out ; then cut the flesh and about one pound 
salt pork in strips, which you put inside of the head, 
1 mixed with salt, pepper, half a dozen middling-sized 
ons chopped, two teaspoonfiils of chopped parsley, half 
dtspoonful of allspice, two bay-leaves, two sprigs of 
me, a little sage, and the juice of half a lemon ; lay it 
I crockery vessel for from four to six days. Envelop 
head in a towel, place it in a kettle with eight small 
ons, two carrots cut in pieces, salt, pepper, four sprigs 
parsley, four of thyme, four bay-leaves, two cloves, and 
int of white wine ; cover with water, set on the fire, and 
mer from six to eight tours ; take from the fire and 



234 FOBS. 

drain, take the towel off and drain again till dry and cold. 
Serve it with sprigs of green parsley around. 

Wild-Boar like. — ^Prepare, stuff, cook, and allow it to 
cool as the one preceding; then place it on an oval dish, the 
ears up, with one or two skewers to hold them in place, 
and also two or three decorated skewers in the middle of 
the head and between the eyes — not across, but lengthwise. 
Glaze it with essence of beef, by means of a brush ; make 
eyes with meat-jelly, which you cut with a vegetable spoon, 
and imitate the tongue, teeth, and tusks with butter colored 
with cochineal and kneaded with flour. Cover the back 
part with jelly and skewers ornamented with flowers or 
slices of truffles, or with both. Some jelly, chopped, 
may also be placed all around, and flowers in the ears and 
on the eyes. It is served as an entree^ or for supper, hmch, 
or breakfast. 

PIG'S KIDNEYS. 
Prepare, cook, and serve like calf s kidneys, 

PIG'S TAIL. 
Prepare, cook, and serve like pig's ears. 

PIG'S TONGUE. 

Prepare, cook, and serve like beef tongue. 

Head<heese. — Soak a pig's head in cold water for two 
or three hours, clean, and then cut the whole of it, eare 
and tongue included, in strips one or two inches long, and 
then put the whole with about two pounds of salt pork, 
cut in strips also, in a crockery bowl, season with salt, 
pepper, chopped onion, chopped parsley, thyme, bay-lea^ 
and sage, chopped also, the juice of a lemon, and leave 
thus for about two or three days, turning it over occa- 



P0BE« 235 

nally. Then put the mixture in a mould or wrap it in 
owel and boil till done.^ It must be immersed in the 
ter. ,* 

Some beet or sheep's tongue, together with the flesh 

chicken, may be added to the head. 

When cooked and cold, if there are any empty places, 
jy may be filled with meat-jelly. 

It is served at late suppers, or at lunch and breakfast, 
is always served cold, with parsley around. 

SUCKING-PIG. 

A sucking-pig, to be good, must be fat. 
When properly cleaned, and hoofs off, clean the inside, 
ving the kidneys ; skewer it, put in it half a pound of 
fcter kneaded with chopped parsley and green onions, 
r or five mushrooms, and two white onions with a clove 
ck in each ; place it on the spit before a good fire, baste 
en with melted butter first, and then with the drippings, 
i when done sierve on a vinaiffrette. 
Some .trujSes may be added to the seasoning, if handy ; 
jives it a good taste. 

Baked. — Stuff it as the above, place it in a baking- 
1 with just cold water enough to cover the bottom of 
1 pan ; put it in a quick oven, baste often, and when 
16 serve with a rimolade or virmgrette sauce. 
When roasted or baked, place it on a dish with slices 
trulHes, mushrooms, and parsley all around. Run some 
swers through slices of truffles and whole mushrooms, 
I plant them in it like the one represented in the cut 
the following page. 

A small red apple is placed in the mouth after it is 
>ked, to make room for which a stone is placed in 



the mouth before cooMng it, in order to teep the month 
open. It ifl served as wana a: 



Boned, — A sncKng-pig can be boned and filled jnrt 
the same as a tnrkej, and cooked and served alike also. 



POULTRY: 



Ohickbns, ducks, turkeys, and geese must he killed not 
3S than twenty-four hours, and not more than three days 
summer, nor less than two days nor more than six days 
winter, before cooking them. • 

HOW TO PREPARE AND CLEAN. 

To transport poultry, see Game. 

Poulterers are of the opinion that the best and quick- 
t way of killing poultry is by cutting the throat or the 
Dgue. Tie the legs of the bird, hang it by the legs, then 
ill and let bleed. Some cut the head off and throw it 
vay on the ground, but the poor things do not die so 
St, and therefore suffer more. 

* As soon as the throat or tongue is cut, if the head is 
3ld down the bird dies sooner, as it allows the blood to 
m more fireely, preventing the bird from bending and 
dsting its neck, and also from swallowing its blood. 

It is much better to pick the bird dry. By scalding, 
le skin is spoiled, ^nd very often the flesh of a young and 
nder chicken is spoUed also, being blanched. When 
eked, singe the bird carefully, in order not to burn the 
in. 

Split the skin on the back of the neck, from the body 



238 



POULTRY. 



to near the head ; then detach the skin from the neck bv 
pulling it downward and the neck upward ; it gives you 
plenty of room to pull the crop out, which you do. Cut 
the sMn (jff at about the middle of the neck, and the neck 
close to the body ; that part of the skin of the neck is 
left to cover the place where the neck was cut off, by turn- 
ing it on the back of the bird, and holding it with twine 
in trussing. 

Make an incision under the rump, lengthwise, and 
large enough to draw the bird easily. 

When drawn, wipe the inside of the bird with a towel, 
but do not wash itj except when you have broken the gall- 
bladder. If that should happen, cut the bird in pieces 
immediately and wash well in lukewarm water; never 
roast or prepare whole a bird that has had the gall-blad- 
der broken in it in drawing it. SauU it or prepare it in 
fricassee. 

If there should be any thing unclean on the outside, 
wipe it off, if possible, or otherwise cut the. place off, or 
wash only the unclean place. A washed bird is a very 
inferior article. If you see that a bird cannot be cleansed 
properly except by washing it, do not buy it. 



CHICKEN. 

To select, — ^Buy a chicken with white flesh and pale- 
yellow fat If young, the cock has small spurs, the ben 
has the lower part of the legs and feet rather soft and 
smooth ; those parts are rough in old pnes. 

If the rump is hard and stiff, they are iresh enough; 
but if soft, it is necessary to examine the bird carefdUy ; 
it might be tainted. 

To truss. — ^When prepared as directed for poultry, 



POULTEY. 239 

the bird on the table on its back, and ^ith a chop- 

or with a round stick flatten the breast-bone, which 

break at a single blow if possible ; the bird is much 

•e sightly when served. Cut the legs off just above 

first joint, or cut off only half of the claws and trim 

the ends of thq wings. Place the bird on a table, the 

ist up and the rump toward you. Push the legs under 

skin, so that, by holding them pei-pendicularly and 

ssing on them, the part ifrom the second to the third joint 

longside the chicken, or horizontally. Then run a truss- 

-needle, with twine attached to it, just above the bone 

the leg, as near the second joint as possible, on the side 

?Fard you) of the bone of the leg that is perpendicular, 

:>ugh the leg (which leg is the left one of the bird), 

ly, and also through the bird, and at the same place, 

t is, as near the second joint as possible. Turn the 

i upside down and the neck toward you ; turn the ends 

the wings on the back, as seen in the cut (p. 240), turn 

skin of the neck on the back also, between or under 

wings and in order to cover the place where the neck 

\ been cut off, then run the needle again through the 

ht wing, the skin of the neck and part of the body, 

I through the other wing. Tie the ends of the twine 

b together. 

As it is, the legs of the bird, when on its back, are 
inting upward. Bend them gently down till they are 
rpendicular and as seen in the cut, run the trussing- 
3dle through both and also through the body, above 
J bones of theleg&and under the end of the breast-bone ; 
1 it again the other way, but under the bones of the legs, 
the two ends of the twine together, and you have a 
d trussed exactly like the one represented in the cut on 
st page. 



Another way to trass ie, to cot on 
instead of cntting the legs at the first 
thns, the first joint must be partly ci 
low. If the nerve were not cut, it wo 
ing, and instead of being strMght, tJ 
upward. 




A bird stuffed is trnased exactly 
above, with the exception that the si 
be sewed up with a truaaing-needle b( 
truss the legs, and the incision must 
soon as filled and before trussing. 

The twine used to eew and truss 
jast before dishing it. 

Some espeiiments ha?e been ma 
to find ont the best way to till chicl 
tender. Those killed by electricity w 
any other, but they must be cooked 
become tainted in a very short time. 



POULTRY. 241 

To blanch — ^When cut in pieces as directed, throw it in 
>iling water to which a little salt has been added ; boil 
^o minutes and drain. 

To cut. — ^To make a chicken saute or in fricassee, it is 
jnerally cut into eight pieces ; the two legs, the wings, 
le piece of the breast-bone, and three pieces of the back- 
)ne. The ends of the wings, the lower part of the legs 
fcer being skinned by warming them, the neck, gizzard, 
jart, kidneys, and head, are put in the soup-kettle. Gen- 
ally the bones of the legs above the second joint are re- 
oved by breaking them with the back of a knife just 
)ove the second joint. The ends of the small bones of 
le three pieces of the back-bone are trimmed off 
so. 

To dish and serve, — ^Di^h the pieces in the following 
*der : the neck, gizzard, the fore part of the back and the 
wpart of the legs in the middle ; then one leg on each side 
• the dish, with one wing beside each, then the breast 
id hind part of the back, and lastly the ends of the wings 
the top. If cut in eight pieces only, place the breast- 
me on the middle of the dish, the hind part of the back- 
)ne at one end of it and the two others at the other end ; 
le legs and wings on each side. 

Boiled. — A chicken is boiled only, when it is an old 
3e, whose tenderness is doubtful, and which is not needed 
' make broth or consomme, 

.Clean, prepare, and truss it as directed for poultry, 
rown the bird in a saucepan with about one ounce of but- 
T, then half cover it with cold water ; season •wirti a few 
ices of onion, same of carrot, two cloves, two stalks of 
irsley, salt and pepper. Boil gently about one hour and 
half, and when done, dish the bird, strain the sauce over 
, and serve warm. 

11 



24:2 POULTEY. 

If the sauce boils away, add a little cold water ; and if 
there is any fat on it, skim it oflf. 

An old chicken may be cooked especially to make a 
salad. 

Boned, — ^Pick, bone, fill, cook, and serve a boned 
chicken exactly like a boned turkey ; the only difference is, 
that it requires less filling, being smaller. 

For an extra, legs of large chickens may be boned and 
filled like the chicken, the rest being used for a Mcassee. 

Broiled, — ^Young, or what are called spring chickens^ 
are broiled ; an old one would not be as good. 

To broil, a chicken is split in two lengthwise, or the 
back only is split, so as to open it. Salt both sides and 
butter them slightly, then broil on a good but not shaip 
fire. Serve with a maitre-iPhdtel, piquanUy or raviffoie 
sauce. 

Broiled hunter4ike. — When* cleaned and prepared, qplit 
the chicken in two lengthwise and place it in a crockery 
dish with the following seasonings: a teaspoonfbl of 
parsley chopped fine, a middling-sized onion in slices, 
two cloves, salt, pepper, a tablespoonfal of sweet-oil, and 
the juice of half a lemon. Half an hour, after turn the 
chicken over, and after another half hour place the above 
seasonings all around the chicken, fasten them vrith paper, 
tie the paper with twine, and broil caretfiilly on a rather 
slow fire, and turning over two or three times. When 
done, remove the paper in which they are enveloped, scrape 
off the slices without scratching the meat, and serve as 
warm as possible with a maitre-<rh6tel, ravigote^ or Madura 
sauce. 

When an older chicken is prepared hunter-like, it is 
generally served with a Tartar sauce. 

Another way, — Clean and prepare a chicken as directed. 



POULTBY. 243 

at the neck off, also the legs at the first joint, split the 
reast in two so as to open the chicken, and flatten it with 
chopper. Put ahout two ounces ©f butter in a sauce- 
sin and set it ou the fire ; "when melted, add a teaspoonful 
' chopped parsley, stir for half a minute with a wooden 
>oon, then put the chicken in with salt and pepper ; when 
l>out half fried on .one side, turn it over and half fry the 
tber side ; then take off the chicken, roll it in chopped 
arsley and bread-crumbs mixed together, broil it properly 
ad serve on a Tartar sauce. , 

A chicken broiled either way above described may 
Iso be served on a Bechamel or on a cream sauce. 

Croqtifittes, — The proportions that we give below are 
>r half a middling-sized chicken. 

A chicken may be cooked especially to make cro- 
tiettes, but it is generally made with cold meat. 

Chop the meat fine. Chop fine also h^lf a middling- 
ized onion; fry it with one ounce of butter, then add 
alf a tablespoonful of flour, stir for half a minute, then 
dd also the chopped meat and a little over a giU of broth, 
alt, peppier, a pinch of nutmeg, stir for about two* minutes, 
ake from the i&re, mix two yolks of eggs with it, put back 
n the fire for one minute, stirring the while ; lastly you 
dd four mushrooms chopped, or two trufl3es, chopped also, 
ir both, according to taste ; do not put back on the fire, 
»ut turn the mixture into a dish, spread it and put it away 
cooL 

When perfectly cold, mix it well, as the upper .part is 
Qore dry than the rest ; put it in parts on the paste-board, 
bout a tablespoonful for each part. Have bread-crumbs 
m the paste-board, roll each part of the shape you wish ; 
liiher round like a small sausage, or fiat, or of a chop- 
hape ; then dip each croquette or part in beaten egg, roll 



244 POITLTEY. 

ia bread-crumbs again, and fry in hot fat. {See Fby- 

ING.) 

The best way to* shape them, is to roll each part round 
first 'with a few bread-crumbs, then with a knife smooth, 
both ends, while with the left hand you roll them gently^ 
and if wanted flat, strike gently on them with the blade 
of a knife. If wanted of a chop-shape, when flat, shape 
with the hands and strike again to flatten them. 

Croquettes are made with any kind of cold meat 

In Fricassee, — Clean, prepare, and cut- as directed. If 
the flesh is not white, blanch it. Put it in a saucepan, 
cover it with broth or cold water (broth is better than 
water), set it on the fire, and add one onion whole, and if 
covered with water, add also a bunch of seasonings, com- 
posed of three stalks of parsley, one of thyme, a bay-lea^ 
and one clove, boil gently till done. Put about two ounces 
of butter in a saucepan with one tablespoon ful of flour, set 
on the fire, stir and mix while the butter is melting; then 
turn the broth or water in which the chicken has been 
cooked into this pan through a strainer, add salt, six mush- 
rooms sHcedf then the pieces of chicken ; give cue Soil, 
dish the pieces as directed, mix a yolk of ^^g in the sauce, 
turn it over the chicken, and serve with or without a border 
of paste. 

Border of Paste, — ^Knead well together, so as to make 
a rather thick paste, two whites of eggs with flour ; spread 
it with a rolling-pin in a long strip about two inches and 
a half 'broad and one-fifth of an inch thick. Trim the sides 
If not straight ; cut three rows of holes in the middle with 
a fruit-corer, then cut the strip of paste in two, leugth- 
wise and in the niiddle of the middle row of holes. Cut 
it again across in pieces about three or four inches loftg. 
Put it in a warm place to dry till hard enough to keep m 



rA 




POULTRY. 



245 



b ape and still be pliable; wann the dish on which you 
dsh to place it ; beat the white of an egg just a little with a 
ancb of sugar, glaze the straight side of the paste with it ; 
►lace it all around and on the border of the dish with the 
lentilated side up. Place the pieces of chicken inside of 
he border as directed aboye, and serve. 

The cut 'below represents the border. One, a^ is the 
>order before being cut in two, and b when cut. 



o 


O 


o 


•• 


O 


o 


o 


, 


O 


o 


o 




O 


o 


o 




O 


o 


o 




O 


o 



It may seem difficult to place the border at first, but 
it will be easily done after having tried once or twice, and 



24:6 . POULTRY. 



following the directions previously given. It is better to try 
when not in a hurry and before being wanted ; that is, be- 
fore you wish to serve it. The border may be made and 
placed on a dish without a chicken, it will be better for an 
experiment. 

In Fricassee a la chevaliere or Parisienne. — ^While the 
chicten is cooking as directed for fricassee^ prepare a gar- 
niture of chickerircombs, and, when the chicken is dished, 
place the garniture all around it, and serve warm. 

A la Frangaise, — ^While th'e fricass^ is being made, 
prepare a garniture of mushrooms or one of truffles, or 
both. 

Dish the chicken as directed, place a garnitmre of 
mushrooms or one of truffles^ or both, tastefiilly all around, 
and serve warm. 

When a fricassee is m^^de for several persons, with 
two, three, four, or more chickens, three garnitures may be 
placed around the same dish, and, when carefully and taste- 
fully arranged, it makes a sightly one. 

The three garnitures are, generally, of chickerb^ombi^ 
mushrooms^ and truffles ; they may be also of chickenr 
combs, quenelles of chicken, and croutons; or, oi financiered 
truffl^s^ and chickefi-combs ; or a boiled craw-fish here and 
there, and two of any of the above-mentioned garnitures. 

Instead of a garniture, it may be served with a border 
of rice. (See Rice in Boudkr.) 

A la financiere, — This is a fricassee of chicken sen'cd 
with a financiere garniture. 

Au supreme. — Chicken, or rather chickens, au suprhne 
is a fricassee made with the breasts of chickens only. 
Each side of the breast-bone is carefully detached in two 
long pieces called fillets; so that, with two chickens, there 
are eight pieces. 



/ 



-B^«S- 



POULTfiY. 247 

To detach them properly, split the skin right on the 
reast-bone from the neck to the rump, then pull it off on 
oth sides so as to have the whole breast skinned. Take 
old of one wing with the left hand, and, with a sharp 
nife in the right, split or cut the joint off carefully, we 
lean the third joint of the wing, or that near the body ; 
i soon as the joint is cut, by merely raising the back of 
le knife, leaving the edge on the cut joint and pressing 
ently on the chicken, you easily pull off the larger part 
f the half breast ; detach the end of the other half with 
be point of the knife and pull it off also. 

Do the same for the other side. 

When the breasts or fillets are thus detached, 4)repare 
bem as chicken in Jricasseej and serve with a border of 
astGy or with one of rice, as directed in the receipts 
bove, and serve warm. 

What is left of the chickens is put in the broth-kettle, 
r used to make consomme. 

Another 8upr^m£, — Detach the breasts of two chick- 
ns as above directed, then prepare the eight pieces or 
illets as directed for chicken saute. Ten minutes before 
aking from the fire, add and mix with the whole two or 
hree truffles, weighing at least six ounces, and sliced ; 
inish the cooking, and serve. 

To serve. — ^Dish the pieces tastefully and according to 
EUicy, and put the dish away in a warm place, then mix 
I supreme sauce with what you have left in the pan, sauce, 
ruffles, etc., boil the whole till rather thick, stirring con- 
innally while it is boiling, turn over the pieces of chicken, 
ind serve. The supreme sauce used in that case is gen- 
irally m^de with very rich chicken gravy. 

Chickens au supreme is considered a very recherchS 
Lish, and it is a rather expensive one. For a grana dinner. 



24:8 POULTRY. 

the breasts of six chickens are used, and all the other parts 
of the chicken are nsed to make chicken gravy with rich 
broth, and that gravy is, in its turn, used to make the 
supreme sauce that is mixed with the liquor in which the 
chicken has cooked. 

The broth used to saute the chicken is generally rich, 
and very often two pounds of truffles are used with six 
chickens. 

A la Bourguignonne, — ^This is a fricassee also, bat 
iQstead of covering the chicken with broth or water, it is 
covered with white wine. 

Proceed, for the rest, and serve as fricoMee. 

With Carrots, — While you are cooking a chicken in 
fricassee^ prepare a dish of carrots au jus or glazed^ for 
ornamenting the dish ; cut the carrots with a vegetable 
spoon before cooking them. 

Dish the chicken as directed, place the carrots taste- 
fully all around the meat, and serve warm. This dish 
was devised by a monk, and is often called h la SainX 
Lambert. 

A la Royale, — This is nearly the same as au suprhne ; 
the only difference is, that the pieces of breast or fillets are 
larded with salt pork, and then cooked, served and deco- 
rated the same as described for au suprime. 

Marengo, — Clean, prepare, and cut up the chicken as 
for fricassee. Put in a stewpan five teaspoonfuls of sweet- 
oil, and set on a good fire ; when hot, put the chicken in 
with salt and pepper ; turn over once in a while, till every 
piece is of a golden color, and nearly cooked, when add 
two sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, a bay-leaf^ and one 
clove, tied together with twine ; add also three or four 
mushrooms cut in slices, and if handy three or four truf- 
fles also^ut in slices ; when the whole is cooked, dish tlie 



.1 '. 



POULTBY. 249 

)ieces of chicken thus : the neck and gizzard, with the 
ore part of the hack, and the low part of the legs in the 
niddle, one leg on each side of the dish with one wing 
)cside each, then the hreast and hind part of the hack, 
tnd the ends of the wings at the top. Hare an Italian 
auce* ready, pour it on the chicken, place on the whole 
he pieces of mushrooms and truffles, also some croutons 
ried in hutter, and serve. 

With Green Pm*.— Clean, prepare, and truss the bird 
IS directed for poultry, then cook it whole as a stewed 
jhicken above. When done, dish the chicken, place peas 
t VAngUme all around, strain the sauce over the whole, 
ind serve. * 

Larded with Truffles, — Clean, prepare, and truss a fat 
chicken. Make about two dozen small pegs, with truffles, 
ibout half an inch long and one-eighth of an inch in di- 
imeter. Take a skewer, make a hole in the flesh of the 
)reast of the chicken, and put a truffle-peg into it. Put a 
iozen pegs ta the same way on each side of the breast- 
)one, and "cook and serve the chicken. It is either boiled, 
slewed, or roasted*, and served as directed for either. 

With Tarragon, — Proceed as for a stewed chicken, 
^ith the exception that it is cooked whole after being 
:russed as directed for poultry, and after having stuffed it 
?dth two ounces of butter kneaded with half a dozen 
>talks of tarragon chopped fine. Serve with a few stalks 
>f tarragon around the dish. * 

Roasted. — Clean, prepare, and truss the chicken as 
iirected. Place it on the spit slightly salted and buttered 
ill around, or envelop it in buttered paper, or merely 
30ver the breast with thin slices of salt pork tied with 
twine. Baste often, at first with melted butter, and then 
with the drippings. 
11* 



250 



POULTKY. 



If the bird has been enveloped with paper, the latter 
must be removed about ten minutes before taking the 
chicken from the fire ; do the same with the slices of salt 
pork. 

It takes from twenty-five minutes to one hour to roast 
a chicken, with a good fire. The time depends as Innch 
on the quality of the bird as on the size. With a skewer 
or a small knife, or merely by pressing on it with the fin- 
gers, any one can learn how to telPwhen done, after haFing 
roasted only two or three. Even by the look of it, many 
persons can tell. 

With Water-cress, — ^Dish the chicken when roasted, 
put fres6 water-cress all around, remove the fat from the 
gravy, which you turn over the whole ; add salt and pepper 
to taste, a little vinegar or lemon-juice, and serve warm. 

With Sauces, — ^When roasted, serve with the following 
sauces : souhise^ tarragon, oyster, tomato, and Provenpale. 

With Cktrnitures. — ^Dish the bird when roasted as 
directed, and place one of the following garnitfires aroand, 
and serve warm : quenelles of chicken er of veal, MacS- 
doine, and cauliflowers. 

With Macaroni, — Spread four ounces of macaroni au 
jus on a dish, place the roasted chicken on it, and serve 
the whole warm. 

With Butter. — It may be served with its gravy and 
craw-fish or lobster-butter. 

With Chestnuts, — ^When dished, surround the chicken 
with chestnuts glazed, and serve. 

With Pigeons, — Dish the bird, place four roasted 
pigeons around, one at each end and one on each side ; 
fill the intervals with green peas au jus, and serve warm. 

All the above may be decorated with skewers. Rmi 
the skewer in a chestnut and then in a craw-fish ; or, in a 



POULTRY. 251 

uenelle and then in a chestnut or craithJUh ; or, in a 
hicken-comhj and in a quenelle, and stick it on the chick- 
n. Two skewers only for a chicken make a fine decora- 
ion. Slices of truffles, of mushroomSy and chicken-cambSj 
aake fine as well as delicious decorations. 

Baked, — ^Fut the chicken in a haking-pan, after being 
leaned, prepared, and trussed. Salt and butter the breast, 
irhich must be upward, place a piece of buttered paper 
m it, and a Kttle cold water in the bakepan. Set it in a 
^arm, but not too quick oven; baste often with the 
iquor in the pan. If the water and juice are absorbed 
>y the heat, add a little cold water, so as to have liquor to 
)aste with. Remove the paper about ten minutes before 
aking from the oven. It takes about forty minutes to 
;ook a chicken of middle size. 

Serve a baked chicken with sauces and gaimitures, and 
lecorated the same as if it were roasted, and as described 
n the above receipts. 

Saute, — After being cleaned and prepared as directed, 
5ut the chicken in pieces as for fricassee. Put it in a 
jaucepan with about an ounce of butter; set on the fire, 
itir now and then till it is of a golden color and pour off 
ihe fat, if any is in the saucepan. Add a tablespoonfiil of 
lour and stir half a minute, then add also broth enough 
X) nearly cover the meat, half a pint of white wine, a 
bunch of seasonings composed' of four stalks of parsley, 
>ne of thyme, half a bay-leaf, and one clove, the four tied 
together with twine ; add salt, and one onion whole. Boil 
yently till done. Ten minutes before serving, add half a 
iozen mushrooms. 

Dish -the pieces of chicken as directed for fricassee, 
place the mushrooms over them, strain the sauce all over, 
and serve warm. 



252 POULTRY. 

If the chicken is done before the sauce is reduced or is 
rather thick, dish the meat and put it away in a warm 
place, boil the rest slowly till reduced, and then turn it 
over the meat. Serve with or without a border, as in a 
fricassee. Truffles may be used instead of mushrooms, 
if handy, or liked. Water may be used instead of broth, 
but it is inferior. 

Another, — To be good saute, the chicken must be 
young and tender. Clean, prepare, and cut as directed. 
Put about one ounce and a half of butter in a fiying- 
pan, set it on the fire, and. when melted put the pieces of 
chicken in, stir now and then till all the pieces have a 
golden hue ; add a tablespoonful of flour, stir again for 
about one minute ; then add also salt and pepper, half a 
pint of broth, or one gill of broth and one gill of white* 
wine ; boil gently for five pr six minutes. Add again a 
teaspoonful of parsley chopped fine, ^yq or six mushroo'ss 
cut in slices, keep it boiling gently till done, and serve 
warm. 

« 

If the sauce is boiling away, or is found too thick, add 
a little broth. Use Champagne, Sauteme, or Catawba 
wine. It is much better with wine than without. 

Another. — Clean, prepare, and cut the cjiicken as for 
fricassee. Put it in a saucepan with about an ounce of 
butter, set on the fire, stir once in a while till all the pieces 
are of a fine golden color; then pour off the fat that may 
be in the pan. Sprinkle a tablespoonfiil of flour all over it, 
and stir for about half a minute, then add three or four 
shallots, or two or three small green onions, chopped fine, 
parsley, and three or four mushrooms, both cut in smaQ 
pieces, a bunch of seasonings composed of four sprigs of 
parsley, one of thyme, a bay-leaf, and one clove, salt, and 
pepper. 



POULTRY. 253 

Stir often till cooked, and serve with a few drops of 
mon-juice sprinkled on it when dished. 

i)ish as directed for frkassee. 

Stewed, — Clean, prepare, and cnt the chicken in pieces 
. for fricassee. Brown them in a saucepan with about one 
mce of butter, then take the pieces oflf, add half a table- 
^oonfirl of flour to the butter, stir for one minute, then 
Id also three or four mushrooms in slices, a small onion, 
id half a dozen sprigs of parsley chopped fine, stir for 
ro or three minutes, then cover with half a pint of white 
ine and the same of broth, boil for ten minutes, put the 
eces of chicken back into the pan, boil gently till done, 
id serve warm as it is. 

The pieces of chicken are dished as directed for 
riccissee. 

Stuffed with Bread, — Soak stale bread in cold water, 
id then squeeze the water out of it Put one ounce of 
itter in a s^fucepan and set it on the fire ; as soon as 
elted, add one middling-sized onion chopped fine, and 
ir till it turns rather yellow, when add the bread, stir 
vo minutes ; add again salt, pepper, a pinfih of nutmeg, 
v^o or three tablespoonfiils of broth ; stir again two or 
tree minutes, take from the fire, mix in it a yolk of egg, 
lit back on the fire for half a minute, stirring the while, 
ike off again, add ateaspoonful of chopped parsley, and use. 
ill the crop (we mean the place where the crop was) and 
so the body or inside of the bird with the above mixture, 
iiss it as directed ; roast or bake it, and serve with the 
ravy. 

Stuffed with Sausage-^meat, — Set a saucepan on the 
re with about half an ounce of butter in it ; when melted 
id an onion chopped fine, sth-, and, when nearly fried, 
id also the heart and liver of the bird, chopped fine, four. 



254 



POULTBY. 



six, or eight onnces of sausage-meat (according to the 
size of the bird), stir for about twelve minutes, take from 
the fire, mix a yolk of egg with it, also four or five mush- 
rooms chopped, or one or two truffles, chopped also, put 
back on the fire for five minutes, stirring the' while, take 
from the fire again, fill the prepared bird with the mixture, 
and as above, roast or bake it, and serve it with its gravy: 

Stuffed with Chestnuts, — ^Roast chestnuts and skin 
them, removing also the white envelope that is under the 
outside skin. Fill the inside of a cleaned and prepared 
chicken till half fiiU, add about one and a half ounces of 
butter, finish the filling ; truss, roast or bake as directed, 
and serve the bird with its gravy. 

Stuffed with Truffles.— ThQ truffles, being preserved, 
do not require any preparation, half a pound is enough for 
a middling-sized chicken ; it is not necessary to put any 
where the crop was. 

Salt and pepper the inside of the bird, ahd put in it also 
about a teaspoonful of parsley chopped fine, then the 
truffles; sew the incisiQp made to draw it; trass it as 
directed, and* roast or bake. 

The same, stewed.— When stuffed, put four ounces of 
salt pork cut in dice in a saucepan, with slices of onion 
and carrot, place the chicken on them, season with four 
stalks of parsley, one of thyme, a bay-leaf, and one cbve 
tied together;. half cover it with broth and white wines, 
of equal parts, set on the fire, boil gently till done, turning 
it over several times. Dish the bird, strain the sauce over 
it, and serve warm. 

After being stuffed with truffles, it may be ^ept two 
days before cooking. . 

Cold. — ^What is left from the previous day's dinner is 
known under the name of cold meat. 



I'V 



POULTRY. 255 

For about half a chicken put one ounce of butter in a 
saucepan, and, when melted, turn into it a fiimncihre gar- 
niture, and half a pint of Madeira wine, boil gently about 
eight minutes, put the cold chicken cut in pieces in it ; 
leave just long enough on the fire to warm it, and serve. 

If not a roasted or broiled chicken, or part of either, 
you merely warm it in the bain-marie if possible, or on 
the fire, and serve as it id. 

If roasted or broiled, it is served in hlanquette, thus : 

Cut up the meat in slices, have in a stewpan and on a 
good fire a piece of butter the size of two walnuts ; when 
melted, sprinkle in it a pinch of flour, stirring with a 
wooden spoon the while ; then pour in also, little by little, 
two ^lls of warm broth, same of boiling water, half a tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and two or three 
small onions fried in butter ; boil fifteen minutes. After 
that time subdue the fire, place the slices of chicken in 
the pan, and serve as it is when well warmed. 

Instead of onions, slices of pickled cucumbers may be 
used. 

Another way, — Cut up the chicken or part of it as for 
fricassee. Put a little butter in a stewpan and set on the 
fire ; .when melted, sprinkle in it a little flour, half a tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, same of chopped mushrooms, 
stir with a wooden spoon the while, two or three minutes 
after which add two gills of white wine, boil the whole fif- 
teen minutes; then subdue the fire, put the pieces of 
chicken in the pan, and serve as it is when warm. 

It may also, after it is cut up, be served cold, with an 
oil, piqtmnte, or poivrade sauce. 

The same, in Fricassee, — An old chicken that has been 
used to make broth, either alone or with beef, when cool, 
or the next day, may be prepared just as a spring chicken 
in fricassee. 



256 POULTRY. 

In Salad, — It is made with cold cMcken, roasted or 
baked, with a whole one or part of it. 

Cut all the meat in dice and put it in a bowl. 

Cut just as much roasted or baked veal in dice also, 
and put with the chicken. 

Cut also about as much table celery as chicken, which 
put with the meat also. Season with salt, pepper, vin^ar, 
and very little oil ; stir and mix . the whole welL Add 
also some lettuce, and mix again gently. Put the mixtme 
then on a platter, making a small mound with it ; spread 
a'Mayonnaise-sauce all over it ; decorate with hard-boiled 
eggs, cut in four or eight pieces, lengthwise ; also with 
centre leaves of lettuce, capers, boiled beets, and even 
slices of lemon. 

A hard-boiled ^gg is cut across in two, then with a 
sharp knife scallop each half, invert them and run a small 
skewer through both, so as to leave the smaller end of 
both halves in the middle and touching; place the ^ 
right in the middle of the dish, when the Mayonnaise is 
spread all over ; plant the centre leaves of a head of lettuce 
in the middle of the upper half of the egg, with a few 
capers in it, and serve. 

Some use mustard with a chicken salad ; it is really 
wrong, because chickens and Mayonnaise-sauce are too 
delicate to use mustard with them. 

CAPON. 

A caponed chicken is cleaned, prepared, cooked, and 
served in the same and every way as a common chicken. 

A capon is almost always fat, larger than an ordinary 
chicken, and has a more delicate and tender flesh. 

Roasted and served in the diflFerent ways described for 
chicken, it makes a recherche dish, also when staffed with 
chestnuts or truffles, as a common chicken. 



potnLTRY. 267 

Boiled, — Clean and prepare as directed above ; rub the 
fleshy part witK lemon, envelop it with slices of bacon, 
place it in a stewpan with one sprig of parsley, one of 
thyme,' a bay-leaf, one clove, a small carrot, two onions, 
salt, and pepper ; cover with half water and half broth, 
and set on a moderate fire. When cooked, take the 
capon off, place it on a dish, and set it in a warm place ; 
then boil the sauce till it is rather thick, when strain it on 
the capon, and serve. 

The same, with Rice, — ^When cleaned and prepared as 
abgve, you place the capon in a stewpan, cover it with 
water, add one glass of broth, a bay-leaf, one clove, a 
sprig of parsley, one of thyme, a small carrot, two onions, 
salt, and pepper ; boil ten minutes, then add also about 
four ounces of rioe, soaked in lukewarm water before using 
it, and let simmer for two hours. Take the capon off, 
and in case the rice should not be found to be cooked 
enough, finish the cooking of it; then take off clove, 
parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, carrot and onions, pour the re- 
mainder on the capon, and serve. 

TURKEY. 

Tame and wild are prepared and served alike. 

The legs of a young hcurturkey are black ; the cock 
has small spurs, and also black legs. 

The shorter the neck the better and fatter the bird. 

An old hen has red and rough legs ; the cock also has 
long spurs. 

The fatter they are the better ; they cannot be too fat. 
The broader the breast the better; the skin must be 
white. 

It is fresh enough as long as the legs are not stiff. 

Boiled, — Clean and prepare a turkey as directed for 
poultry. 



258 



POULTRY. 



Put in. a stewpan^ large enongh to hold a turkey, a 
piece of batter the size of a duck's egg/ also a teaspoon- 
ful of chopped parsley, same of green onions, and four or 
five mushrooms ; set it on a good fire, and, as soon 'as the 
butter is hot, lay the turkey in ; turn over now and then 
till of a fine golden color, then take it from the pan, cover 
the breast with slices of baeon tied with twine, and put it 
back in the pan ; add a pinch of allspice, si» small onions, 
salt, pepper, a glass of white wine, and a pint of broth ; 
simmer till cooked, dish it, strain the sauce on it, and 
serve. . It takes about two hours to cook a turkey of mid- 
dling size. A little warm broth should be added, in case 
the sauce boils away during the cooking. 

Roasted. — Clean, prepare, and' truss a turkey as 
directed for poultry, and, if the turkey is mot fat, the breast 
may be larded with salt pork. Place it on the spit be- 
fore a sharp fire, bastipg often with melted butter at first, 
and then with the drippings. It may be enveloped in 
buttered paper and tied with twine before placing it on 
the spit ; the paper is removed ten or fifteen minutes be- 
fore taking from the fire ; serve with the gravy, after hav- 
ing skimmed the fat ofil 

Some fresh water-cress is placed all around it, and on 
which you sprinkle vinegar or lemon-juice. 

A turkey may be served in every way as a roasted 
chicken — with sauces, garnitures, and decorated with 
skewers. 

Baked, — When cleaned, prepared, and trussed, put the 
turkey in a baking-pan, spread a little butter on it, put a 
Httle cold water in the pan, the depth of about two-eighths 
of an inch, sprinkle salt aU over, place a piece of buttered 
paper on it, and put in a quick oven. Baste often and 
turn the bird over and round, if necessary. It takes ftom 



POULTRY. 259 

one hour and a half to two hours to cook a turkey, a<5-* 
cording to size, quality, and also according to the degree 
of heat. 

It is served with the gravy only, after having removed 
the fet, or with sauces, garnitures, and decorations, de- 
scribed for roasted chicken. 

Ot/ster-Satice, — ^When roasted or baked as directed, 
serve warm with an oystejr-sauce. 

With Currant Jelly, — ^Roast or bake it, and then serve 
it with currant-jelly. 

It is also served with a cranberry-sauce. 

Stewed. — An old turkey is moxe tender stewed than 
cooked in any other way. 

The fleshy parts may be larded with salt pork, if found 
too lean. 

Put in a large stew-kettle half a pound of bacon cut 
in slices, four ounces of knuckle of veal, three sprigs of 
parsley, two of thyme, a bay-leaf, six 'small onions, one 
carrot, cut in four pieces, three cloves, one clove of garlic, 
salt, pepper, and then the turkey ; wet with a pint of 
white wine, same of broth, cover as nearly air-tight as 
you can, place in a moderately heated oven or on a 
moderate fire, let simmer (not boil) about two hours and 
a half, then turn it over, put back on the fire or in the 
oven for another two hours and a half, after which dish 
the turkey ; strain the sauce and put it back on the fire 
to reduce it to a jelly, which you spread on it, and serve. 

Many connoisseurs prefer the turkey served thus when 
cold ; it does not cost any thing to try it, and it is very 
handy for a grand dinner, as it may be prepared one or 
two days in advance, and is just as good, if kept in a 
refrigerator. 

Stuffed with Chestnuts, — ^Roast chestnuts enough to 



260 



POTJLTEX. 



fill the bird. Skin them and remove also the white skin 
under the outer one. Fill the turkey with them, after 
having cleaned and prepared it ; when about half full, pat 
in it also from four to six ounces of butter; finish the 
filling with chestnuts ; sew it up, truss it as directed, and 
roast or bake it Serve with the gravy only. 

Stuffed with Truffles, — Chop fine about four ounces of 
truffles, and piit them in a stewpp-n with about a pound of 
salt pork cut in dice ; set it on a moderate fire ; add salt, 
pepper, a little grated nutmeg, a bay-leaf, a pinch of allspice^ 
and a pinch of dried thyme ; when hot, add also about 
two pounds of trufiBies, boil fifteen minutes, tossing now 
and then, and take from the fire. When nearly cool, put 
the whole in the turkey and sew it up ; leave it thus, if 
fresh, four days in winter and one or two in summer; if 
not fresh, leave it a shorter time. 

Hoast or bake it as. directed above, and serve with the 
gravy, freed from iiie fat part. This dish is considered ex- 
quisite by epicures. 

Stuffed with Sausage-meat. — ^Proceed as forcbicken 
stuffed, in every particular. 

With Salt Pork. — Place thin slices of salt pork on 
the breast of a prepared turkey, covering it entirely, and 
fastening the slices with twine ; then the turkey is roasted 
or baked, and served with the gravy. The slices may be 
removed a httle before taking from the fire, in order to 
color the meat. 

Boned. — Buy a good turkey, neither too old nor too 
fat, and picked dry. Singe the bird, but do not draw it 
Cut the neck off" about one inch and a half from the body. 
Cut also the wings oflT just above the second joint, and 
the legs just above the first joint ; the third joint is the 
one nearest the body. Split the skin from the end oi the 



POULTBT. 261 

• 

neck to the ramp ; use a small sharp-pointed knife ; com- 
mence to run the knife between the bones and flesh, on 
one side, till you come to the third joint of the wings and 
legs. By twisting and raising both wing and leg, but one 
at a time, you easily crack the joint, and then separate it 
from the body with the knife. Continue to Fun the knife 
between the bones and flesh, on the same side, till you 
come to the breast-bone.^ Do the same on the other side. 
Pull out the crop and cut off the rump from the body, but 
without touching the skin, as the rump must come off with 
the sMn and flesh. Then by taking hold of the bird by 
the neck with the left hand, and pulling the skin gently 
down with the right, you partly uncover the upper part 
of the breast-bone ; then again run the knife between that 
bone and the flesh, on. both sides, till you come nearly to 
the end or edge of the bone. Then lay the bird on its 
back, have somebody to take hold of it by the neck, hav- 
ing the breast of the bird toward you. All along the edge 
of the breast-bone there is no flesh between the bone and 
the skin. The bird being held as described above, take 
hold of tte skin of the neck with your left hand, pulling 
gently downward, and with the knife detaching the skin 
carefully from the bone, the carcass coming off whole. 
Place the bird on the table, the inside up,, pull out the 
bones of the wings and legs, scraping the flesh all around 
so as to leave it attached to the rest ; pull or scrape off all 
the tendons of the legs ; push legs and wings inside the 
bird ; see that the rump is clean ; cut off the ring under 
It if necessary. We warrant that anybody, with an ordi- 
nary amount of natural capacity, can bone a turkey or 
other bird by following our directions with care. We 
recommend persons doing it for the first time not to 
attempt to do it fast. Now have at hand about two pounds 




262 POULTEY. 

of saasagcvmeat seasoned as directed, two pounds of boiled 
Lam, half a dozen boiled sheep's* tongaes or a smoked 
beef tongue (but really the former is better), a pound and 
a half of salt pork, and half a pound of truffles sliced 
(the* latter if handy and if liked)« Cut the ham, tongues, 
and salt pork In strips about four inches long, one inch 
broad, and a quarter of an inch thick. Spread the bird 
on the table, the inside up and ihe romp toward you ; 
salt and pepper it ; place three or four slices of salt poik 
here and there on it, then a layer of sausage-meat, strips 
of ham and tongue and salt pork alternately on the aao- 
sage-meat, slices of truffles if used, again sausage-meat, 
ham, etc., till there is enough to fill the bird well ; that is, 
by bringing the two sides of the skin together, giving the 
bird a round fonn, it is perfectly falL It is imposdble to 
give exact proportions ; it depends not only on the size of 
the bird, but also on the quality and degree of fatness of 
the bird. In two of the same weight, one may require 
more than the other to fill it. When filled, and when the 
two sides of the skin are brought together as described 
above, sew up the cut with a tmssing-needle and twine. 
Wrap up the bird tightly in a towel, tie the towel with a 
string, and run the sjbring all around the towel to prevent 
it from opening at all. Take a kettle or saucepan of an 
oval shape and large enough to hold the bird, put enough 
cold wateir in it to cover the bird, also all the bones of the 
bird (broken in pieces), a small piece of lean bee^ say. one 
pound, a few stalks of parsley, two of thyme, two cloves, 
two cloves of garlic, a bay-leaf, twelve pepper-corns, tf 
middling-sized carrot sliced, half a turnip, and salt Set 
on the fire, and at the first boihng put the bird in ; boil 
gently for about three hours if it is a turkey of middlii^ 
size, two hours for a middling-sized chicken. When d<»ie 



POULTET- 263 

it partly floats ; that is, the upper part is abore'^he liquor. 
Take it from the pan, take the towel off and riuse it in 
cold water ; wrap the bird up in the towel again and in 
the same way as before ; place it on a lai^e dish, with the 
seam or back under ; put another plate or dish over it with 
a weight on it, and leave thus overnight in a cool place. 
The next morning the bird will be perfectly cold and 
rather flattened; then remove the towel, also the twine 
with which it has been sewed,- place it on the dish on 
which it is to be served, the breast upward ; glaze it with 
essence of beef or glace; decorate with meat-jelly, and 
serve. 

Sow to decorate with Jelly, — ^When the jelly is con- 
gealed and can be cut with a knife, chop some of it on a 
coarse towel and put it all around the bird, about half 
an inch thick ; cut some in slices about a quarter of an 
inch in thickness ; cut these again with paste-cutters in 
different shapes, according to fancy, and place it over the 
bird, also according to j^ncy ; again cut some of it in slicesi^ 
about one inch broad, a quarter of an inch thick and of 
any length,* and cut out of these last ones pieces of a 
triangular shape, which put all around the border of tiie 
disb, placed so that one point of each piece is turned 
toward the e.dge of the dish and the two other points 
touch the other pieces on both sides ; then you have an 
indented border of jelly. When the jelly is fancifully and 
tastefully arranged, it makes a sightly dish. 

It is always served cold for breakfast, lunch, or supper. 

In summer the jelly melts, and cannot be used as a 
decoration. A boned bird is then served without jelly. 
The bird is cut in slices, and some jelly is served with each 
slice. 

. Cold, — A turkey, being a large bird, is seldom entirely 



264 POULTRY. 

eatea the^day it is served, and very often more than half 
of it is left for the next day. What is left may be pre- 
pared in different ways. 

In Viiyaigrette, — Cut the flesh in slices and serve them 
with a vinaigrette. It is not understood here for a boned 
turkey, which is always eaten cold, but either a roasted, 
baked, stewed, or stuffed turkey. 

In 0roquettes. — Proceed in every particular as for 
chicken croquettes. 

In Salad, — A salad of turkey is made also exactly the 
same as a salad of chicken, with cold meat. It is covered 
with a Mayonnaise-sauce and decorated in the same way. 

Besides the above ways of preparing cold turkey, it 
may also be prepared as directed for cold chicken in 
general. 

A caponed turkey is prepared as a caponed cbicken, 
boiled or with rice ; and also hke a, turkey, as described 
in the above receipts. They are generally larger, fiEitter, 
^and more tender and juicy than others. They are very 
much appreciated here, and every year more and more are 
supplied, and, as in Europe, the greater the* supply the 
httter the quality. There is a ready market for caponed 
turkeys in - aU the large cities of the United States, and 
they command a high price. 

DUCKS. 

Ducks and ducklings, tame and wild, are prepared 
alike. To be good, a duck must be fat, be it a eanvai- 
backj gadwell, black-dtick, garganey, poachard, wood-dnck^ 
pintail, shoveller^ spirit-duck, suminer-duck, teaZy widgeon^ 
shelldrake, or any other. 

How to select, — A young duck has the lower part of 
the legs soft, and the skin between the claws soft also; 



[ 



POULTRY. 265 

you will also know if it is young by taking hold of it by 
the bill (the under bill only), if it breaks or bends, the 
duck is young. 

If the breast of the duck is hard and thick, it is fresh 
enough. 

How-to prepare. — A duck is cleaned and prepared as 
directed for poultry. 

. Roasted, — Clean, prepare, and truss the duck as a 
chicken, with the exception that the rump is pushed inside ; 
tlie duck being much longer than a chicken, it is more 
sightly when so trussed. 

Place inside of the duck two sage-leaves, two bay- 
leaves, and two sprigs of thyme, and leave it thus in a cool 
place for two or three hours, and then roast it as directed 
for chicken. 

"When roasted, serve it with any of the following gar- 
nitures : cabbage, cauliflower, Macedoine, onion, or truffles. 

The fatty part of the gravy or drippings must be care- 
fully and totally removed before turning it over the duck v 
and garniture. It takes from thirty to forty minutes to 
roast. 

Baked, — When cleaned, prepared, and trussed as ^- 
rected for turkeys and chickens, put the duck in a bake-* 
pan, salt and pepper it, cover the bottom of the pan with 
cold water, and place it in a rather quick oven. 

A duck, being generally very fat, requires to be turned 
over and over several times and to be basted very often. 
It is not necessary to cover it with buttered paper. In 
case there is much fat in the pan, remove it while it is 
cooking. 

It is served as directed for roast duck, with garnitures. 

When roasted or baked, it is also served with apple 
or cranberry-sauce, or with currant-jelly. 

12 



266 POULTRY. 

With Peas. — Cut in dice about one ounce of salt pork 
and put it in a saucepan ; set it on the fire, and, as soon 
as the *butter is melted, brown in it a duck trussed as 
directed and take from the fire, • Put one ounce of butter 
in a saucepan and mix it cold with a tablespoon^ of flour, 
set it on the fire, and, when the butter is melted, put the 
duck in with about a quart of green p'eas, blauched for 
one or two minutes only ; add about a pint of water or of 
broth, a bunch of seasonings composed of three or four 
stalks of parsley, one of thyme, a bay-leaf, and one clove, 
salt, and pepper ; boil gently till the whole is cooked, and 
serve warm. 

Remove all the fat carefully before serving. 
If the water should boil away while it is cooMng, add 
a little more. 

With Oranges, — ^Roast or fiake a young duck as 
directed, and serve it with carpels of orange all around ; 
and sprinkle some orange-juice all over just before serv- 
ing it. 

With Olives. — ^Roast or bake the duck as directed. 
When done, turn the gravy into a small saucepan with 
aljput two dozen olives ; stir gently, and keep on the fire 
for about five minutes. Dish the duck, place the olives 
all around ; turn the gravy over the whole, and serve 
warm. 

Saute, served with a Border. — ^When cleaned and cut 
in eight pieces as directed, set it on the fire with one 
ounce of butter, stir occasionally till turning brown, then 
pour off* the fat from the saucepan, add broth enough just 
to cover the pieces of duck ; also one onion with a clove 
stuck in it, a bimch of seasonings tied with twin^ and 
composed of four stalks of parsley, one of thyme, ailtA 
bay-leaf, salt, and pepper ; boil gently till done. Place the 



POULTBY. 267 

# 

pieces of duck inside of a border of rice, strain the sauce 
over the duck only, and ^evve hot. 

The rice must be cooked, moulded, and placed on the 
dish while the duck is cooking, so as to serve the whole 
warm. [See Rice in Border.) 

To cut. — A duck is generally cut in eight pieces, the 
two legs and wings, the breast in two, and the back-bone 
in two. 

With Turnips. — Truss the duck as directed for birds. 
Put one ounce of butter in £t saucepan, set it on the fire, 
and, when melted, put the duck in, turn over now and 
then till it is brown on every side. Then add a piece of 
onion chopped fine, stir, and, when turning brown also, 
add water enough to half cover it ; also a bunch of sea- 
sonings composed of three sprigs of parsley,, one of thyme, 
a bay-leaf, and a clove ; boil gently till done, when add 
salt to taste. 

While the duck is cooking, cut two turnips in dice or 
in round pieces with a fruit-corer, or with a vegetable 
spoon, set them on the fire with cold water and salt, boil 
tiU tender, and drain them. 

Put them back on the fire with the sauce or gravy 
from the saucepan in which the duck has cooked, give 
one boil, dish the duck, place the turnips around, and 
serve. 

Ariother way^ — Cut the duck in pieces. Set a sauce- 
pan on the fire with an ounce of butter in if, when melted, 
add half a tablespoon ful of flour, stir, and, when turning 
brown, add half a dozen small turnips or two large ones, 
cut with a vegetable spoon ; stir, and, when they are all 
browned, take them off and brown the pieces of duck ; 
then put the turnips back in the pan, add broth enough 
just to cover the whole ; also two sprigs of parsley, one 



268 



POULTRY. 



of thvine, a bay-leaf, a clove, salt, and pepper ; bofl gently 
till cooked ; disli the duck and turnips, turn the sauce 
over them through a strainer, and serve warm. 

Cold, — W[yaX is left from the preceding day's dinner 
is prepared in salmis. 

Very often a duck is baked, especially to make a 
salmis with it. {See Salmis.) 

Boned, — Bone; fill, cook, and serve as turkey boned. • 

Cold duck may also be prepared in croqtiettes and 
salad, like chicken. 

Stuffed. — It is stuffed with sausage-meat and chest- 
nuts, also like a chicken. 

GEESE AND GOSLING&-TAME OR WILD. 

A young goose has much down and soft legs of a yel- 
low color ; an old one has little down and rough legs of a 
reddish color. When freah, the legs are soft ; and stiff and 
dry when not fresh. 

Geese and goslings are prepared, cooked, and served 
like ducks, in the following ways : roasted and baked, and 
served with garnitures, with cranberry-sauce, currant-jelly, 
apple-sauce, with a border, olives, oranges, peas, or turnips ; 
in croqtiettes and in salmis. 

It is boned, cooked, and served, like a boned turkey. 

In Civet. — Clean, prepare, and cut the goose in pieces, 
removing most of the fat, and then cook, and serve it lite 
rabbit in civet 

It takeS a little longer than to cook a rabbit, hut 
makes a very good dish. 

When the civet is properly made, it does not taste 
like goose. 

GUINEA-FOWLS. 

A young Guinea-bird is good, but an old one is hardly 
fit to be eaten. 



POULTET. , 269 

Giunea-fowls are prepared aod served like prairie-hens. 

PIGEONS. * 

The stall-fed or squab is prepared the same as the 
-wild one. 

To select. — ^If the legs are not red, they are young ; 
and if not stiff, they are fresh. When not fresh, the 
rump is of a bluish color. 

Clean and prepare them as directed for fowls. 

Broiled, — Split the backs of the pigeons so as to open 
them, flatten them a little with a chopper. Put two 
ounces of butter (for six pigeons) in a saucepan, and set 
it on a good fire ; when hot, add to it a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley and green onions, salt, and pepper ; then 
the pigeons. When half cooked, take them from the fire, 
roll them in bread-crumbs, place them on the gridiron 
and set on a moderate fire, turn over once or twice, and, 
when done, serve on a maitre (Thdtel, piquante, or poi- 
vrade sauce. 

Another way. — ^When cleaned, prepared, and split open 
as directed above, salt and pepper them, grease them 
slightly with melted butter, by means of a brush ; then 
broil them till underdone, and serve with a maitre (Thdtel 
sauce. 

In Chartreuse. — A chartreuse with pigeons is made and 
served as a chartreuse of prairie-hens. 

In Papillotes, — When cleaned and prepared as direct- 
ed, bake the pigeons till about half done, then split them in 
two, lengthwise, and then proceed as for veal cutlets in 
papillotes. 

They may be Med with a little butter, instead of baked. 

With Vegetables. — Clean and prepare as directed for 
poultry, four pigeons. Cut them in four pieces each. 



270 POULTET. 

Put in a saucepan two ounces of butter, and set it on 
the fire ; when melted, brown the pigeons in it, and then 
take them from the pan. 

The pigeons being taken off, put into the pan, which 
is kept on the fire, half a carrot and two onions sliced, 
half a turnip, sliced also ; four or five stalks of parsley, one 
of thyme, one of celery, a bay-leaf, two cloves ; the latter 
five tied together. Cover the whole with broth or water ; 
boil gently tiU about half done, then add the pieces of 
pigeons, and salt and pepper; continue boiling till the 
whole is done. • 

Dish the pigeons, throw away the seasonings, mash 
the carrot, onions, and turnips through a colander, which 
you mix with the sauce. Place the mixture around the 
pieces of pigeons, and serve warm. 

Stuffed, — ^It is stuffed, cooked, and served like a stuffed 
chicken. 

The same, stewed, — ^Put a piece of butter the aze of % 
walnut in a stewpan, and set it on a good fire ; when hot, 
add two ounces of bacon cut in dice, then place in four 
pigeons, leave thus till of a fine golden color, and then 
take pigeons and bacon off the pan. Put again in the 
stewpan the same quantity of butter as before; when 
melted, sprinkle in, little by little, a teaspoonful of flour, 
stirring with a wooden spoon, and when of a proper thick- 
ness, and of a brownish color, put the pigeons and bacon 
back in, add four small onions, two sprigs of parsley, one 
of thyme, a bay-leaf, a pinch of allspice, e'alt, pepper, half 
a glass of broth, same of claret wine ; simmer about an 
hour, take off parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, and send to tiie 
table. 

The same, roasted, — Envelop each pigeon in thin slices 
of bacon tied with twine, place them on a spit before a 



POULTET. 271 

• 

moderate fire, baste often with tlie drippings, and, when 
cooked, serve them with the gravy, at the same time 
isprinkling a few drops of lemon-juice on them. It takes 
from thirty to thirty-five minutes to roast them. 

To roast or bake they are trussed like a chicken, as 
seen in the cut below. To carve pigeons is easy, they are 
merely split in two, lengthwise. 




Baked. — ^Place a tBin slice of fat salt pork or bacon on 
the breast of each pigeon, after being cleaned, prepsfred, 
and salted ; place them in a bakepan, on theiV back ; cover 
the bottom of the pan with cold water and put in a hot 
oven, baste often, and when done serve them with water- 
cress and lemon-juice. 

The pigeons are placed on the dish the same as they 
were in the bakepan ; place water-cress between each, also 
all around and in the middle of them ; sprinkle lemon-juice 
all over, and serve warm. 

With Green Feas. — ^When cleaned and prepared, truss 
the pigeons and put them in a saucepan with about two 
ounces of butter for half a dozen, stir now and then till 
turning rather brown all around and take off*; then put in 
the saucepan about two ounces of salt pork cut in dice, 
stir, and, when partly fried, take it off also. The pan being 
stiU on the fire, put into it a good tablespoonful of flour, 
stir till it turns brown, wJien you add about a quart of 
broth, stir and. mix; put pigeons and salt pork back into 
the pan, season with a bunch of seasonings, composed of 



2Y2 POULTRY. 

half a dozen stalks of parsley, one of thyme, two bay-leaves, 
a clove, and one clove of garlic. Boil gently till nearly 
half done, and then add a quart of green peas, blanched 
previously ; boil again gently till the whole is done ; re- 
move the bunch of seasonings and the clove of garlic ; dish 
the pigeons, turn the peas in the same dish, but in the mid- 
dle of the pigeons, which can be tastefully placed all 
around the dish ; strain the sauce over the whole, and 
serve warm. 

With Mushrooms, — Prepare and truss the pigeons the 
same as for the above, and proceed also as foi* the above 
in every particular, except that you do not put in the 
saucepan quite as much broth, a pint is sufficient, and boil 
gently till done, but do not add pe^. 

Tep minutes before taking from the fire, add a dozen 
mushrooms, whole or sliced, and half a gill of claret wine, 
if handy. 

Dish the pigeons, place the mushrooms in the middle 
of the dish, strain the sauce over the whole, and serve 
warm. 

Fried, — Take four pigeons, cut each in four pieces, 
put two ounces of butter in a stewpan and set it on the 
fire ; when melted, put the pigeons in with two or three 
sprigs of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, a pinch 
of allspice, salt, pepper, and half a pint of broth. Take 
the pigeons off when half cooked, and, as soon as they are 
cool, dip each piece in beaten eggs and roll it in bread- 
crumbs. Strain the butter that may be left in the stew- 
pan, and put it in a frying-pan with about an ounce more, 
and fry the birds for about two minutes ; serve with water- 
cress or parsley all around. 

In Compote. — ^Roast six pigeons as directed. Then cut 
one of them in dice, put it in a mortar and poand it. Pat 



POULTRY. 273 

half an onnce of batter in a saucepan, and, wlien melted, fry 
half an onion chopped fine in it; thin add to the ponnded 
pigeon about a gill of gravy, a gill of good broth, salt, pep- 
per, a bunch of seasonings, composed of three stalks of 
parsley, one of thyme, a bay-leaf, and a clove ; also about 
a gill of Madeira wine or white wine, boil gently till re- 
duced about one-third, strain. Put back on the fire, add 
butter, and when melted stir and get it on the comer of 
the range to keep warm while the rest is prepared. Cut 
the otKer five pigeons in two, lengthwise. Cut ten pieces 
of bread square, or of an oval shape, and about the size of 
a half pigeon, fry them with a little butter, and place them 
on a dish. "While the bread is frying, put the pigeons in 
an oven to warm them ; place half a pigeon on each slice 
of bread, or one lapping over the other ; have the slices 
and pigeons so arrange'd that they fill the dish, leaving 
only a small space in the middle, into which you pour the 
sauce ; serve the whole hot. 

In Crapaudine. — ^When prepared, split open the backs 
of the pigeons ; cut the legs at the first joints and run them 
through the skin so that the ends come out on the inside ; 
dip the birds in beaten eggs, roll them in bread-crumbs, 
and broil them. 

While they are broiling, knead butter, chopped parsley, 
and lemon-juice together ; spread some on the pigeons 
when they are dished, and serve warm. 

GIBLETS. 

By giblets are understood the gizzards, heads, legs, 
livers, necks, and ends of the wings of chickens, ducks, 
geese, turkeys, and other birds, tame or wild. 

You begin by cleaning them well, cut off the bills, 
take the eyes out, warming the legs on live coals, so that 

12* 



n 



274 POtJLTBY. 

jou can take off the outer skin and spars ; place the gil>- 
lets in a tureen, turn boiling water and a little salt on them, 
leave them thus five or six minutes, then wash well and 
drain them. 

In Fricassee. — ^Put a piece of butter in a stewpan (the 
size to be according to the quantity of giblets you have), 
set it on a good fire ; when melted, sprinkle in it^ little by 
little, a teaspoonful of flour ; stir the whole with a wooden 
spoon ; when of a proper thickness, and of a brownish 
color, add half a gill of warm broth, same of warm water, 
a sprig of parsley, a small pinch of grated nutmeg, two 
small onions, salt^-and pepper; then the giblets. About 
half an hour after add also two mushrooms, cut in pieces. 
It takes about two hours to cook them properly. Dish the 
pieces, strain the sauce, mix in it one .well-beaten yolk of 
an eggy and a few drops of lemon-juice ; pour it on the 
giblets, place the pieces of mushrooms over the whole, and 
serve. 

The samBy steioed, — Put l^e giblets in a stewpan with 
butter, and set it on a good fire ; when they are of a fine 
yellow color, add one or two sprigs of parsley, a clove of 
garlic, a sprig of thyme, one clove, half a bay-lea^ two 
mushrooms cut in pieces, two small onions, and a pinch 
of flour ; wet with broth, let simmer gently for half an 
hour, and add also two parsnips cut in slices, and pre- 
viously h^lf fried in butter; simmer again for about an 
hour ; dish the pieces of meat, strain the sauce, put it 
back on the fire to reduce it a little, pour it on the gib- 
lets, place the pieces of mushrooms at the top, and serve 
hot 

Saute, — ^They may also be prepared and served as a 
chicken sauU, 



POULTRY. . 275 

ASPIO OP MEAT. 

Cut four middling-sized onions in slices, lay them in a 
stewpan with a quarter of a pound of bacon (not smoked) ; 
then add about a quarter of a pound of each of the follow- 
ing meats : chicken, game (any kind), mutton, and bee^ 
also a calf 8 foot split in t^o, two ounces of rind of bacon, 
two sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, a clove of garlic, two 
canrots cut in two, one clove, and four small onions ; wet 
with half a pint of water, and set on a brisk fire ; cover 
the pan well. When neariy cooked, take the grease off 
with a ladle ; add then boiling water enough just to cover 
the whole, and finisb the cooking. Strain the juice, skim 
off the fat, if any, and let it cool ; if it is not found clear 
enough. when strained, beat well two whites of eggs, put 
them in the stewpan with the juice, set it on a sharp fire 
for about ten minutes, stirring the while, and take from 
the fire ; add to it a few drops of lemon-juice, and strain 
again. 

Put in a mould some of the above juice, about two- 
eighths of an inch in depth ; place the mould on ice, and 
leave till the juice has turned into a jelly. Lay on that 
jelly some of the following meats, free fi:om bones, and 
not allowing the pieces to touch the sides of the mould : 
chicken, game, tongues of beef, calf, and sheep, of all or of 
cither of them (the meats must be cooked beforehand). 
Cover the whole with the remainder of the juiqe, so as to 
have about the same thickness at the top as at the bot- 
tom. Place the mould in a refrigerator, to cool, and turn 
into a jelly ; then dip the mould in very warm water, turn 
over on a dish, remove the mould, and you have a fine 
tntree* 



l; 



GAME. 



Game, comparatively, is appreciated only by a few. 

When the country was first settled, every one was his 
own provider, and of course game was not sent to a mai^ 
ket several hundred miles from the place where it was 
shot or caught. But settlement and civilization have the 
same effect on game as they have on barbarians or savages — 
they drive it away. 

Our Northeastern cities are now supplied by the West- 
ern States with game. In winter time, game may be kept 
for weeks without being spoiled or losing its natural flavor 
and taste, when kept where it is killed ; but when trans- 
ported, it is very different. To transport it requires pack- 
ing. As soon as packed, it naturally ferments ; and even 
if packed when frozen, the middle of the barrel will fer- 
ment and become injured, if not entirely rendered unfit for 
the table. 

The packing of game or poultry in barrels is a bad 
practice. Nothing requires more ventilation than game 
while being transported. Many dealers have their game 
sent to them in wicker-baskets with plenty of straw, but 
the greater part is still sent in barrels ; hence the musty 
taste when cooked. 

To keep game for some time when fresh, open the 
animal or bird under the rump, just enough to take the 



GAMB. 277 

inside out, also the crop of birds, being very careful about 
the gall-bladder ; if it bursts, it is better not to try to pre- 
serve tke piece, but to clean, wash, and use it as soon as 
possible. Birds must be left in their feathers, and ani- 
mals in their skins. Fill the inside with dry and clean 
oats, and put the piece in a heap or barrel of oats. It 
will keep thus for many days. 

Another way is to envelop Jhe piece well in a towel, 
and bury it in charcoal dust in a cool and dry place. 

How to clean and prepare, — Clean and prepare the 
birda as directed for poultry in general 

After having carefully skinned, take out thejnside, and 
cut the legs off at the first joint of animals ; wash the 
inside with lukewarm water, and wipe it dry with a clean 
towel immediately after ; wipe also the outside, but do 
not wash it if possible ; that is, if you can clean it well by 
wiping only. 

Wild duckSy geese, pigeons, and turkeys, are prepared, 
cooked, and served like tame ones. 

Bear-meat and Buffalo. — ^The meat of all large animals 
is better roasted, than dressed in any other way. Prepare, 
cook, and serve bear and buffalo meat like venison, beef 
a la mode, or stewed. 

Bear-meat has highly nutritive qualities, and is very 
warming. 

Buffalo-steaks are said to be better broiled on cinders 
without a gridiron, than on or before coals with one ; that 
is, Indian fashion and even hunters' fashion. 

Indians often use wood-ashes as a substitute for salt, 
and never use salt with buffalo-meat; but their liking or 
preference comes from their habit of invariably broiling 
buffalo-meat on wood cinders or buffalo-chips. 

Bear-hams, so well appreciated everywhere, are pre- 



278 QMSEs 

pared and served like common bams. A bear-ham, taste- 
fully decorated, is considered a recherchS dish at supper for 
evening parties. « 

Blackbird^ Bobolink, and Small Birds, — ^Tbe cut below 
represents six small birds on the spit, ready for roasting. 
When the birds are prepared, cut off the ends of the wings 
and the legs above the first joint Instead of cutting the 
legs above the first joint,^the ends of the claws only may 
be cut of^ according to taste. Cut thin slices of fJEKt 
salt pork, of a proper size to cover the breast of the bird ; 
« place the slice on the breast of it, run a skewer through 
the middle of the bird, so that it will run through the two 
ends of the slice of salt pork also, as seen in the cutw 

Have a skewer, or merely a piece of wire, long enough 
to hold six birds ; fix the skewer on the spit, and roast 

When the six birds are on the skewer, fasten them 
with twine, to prevent them from turning round, as seen 
in the cut. 




Small birds are cleaned and prepared as directed for 
poultry, but they are not trussed, their legs being tied 
while tying the salt pork. While roastiug, they are basted 
often with the drippings. Some water-cress and lemon- 
juice sprinkled upon them may bo served with the birds. 
The twine is removed before serving, and they must be 
served hot ; if allowed to cool at all, they lose their taste. 
It takes fi'om ten to fifteen minutes to roast 

Baked, — Prepare them exactly as for roasting: place 
the wire or skewer across a baking-pan, turn them round 




GAME. 279 

and bastd often ; serve also as above, with the gravy, and 
with or without water-cress. 

The bobolink, reed-bird, and rice-bird are the same; they 
are called under these different names at different seasons 
and in different localities ; it is the American ortolan, the 
most delicate of small birds ; the robin comes next. 

To eat it a la Brillat-Savarin, — Take hold of the bird 
by the bill ; open your mouth wide enough to. introduce 
the whole bird into it easily ; then shut it, at the same 
time biting off the bill just at its base ; chew properly and 
swallow. 

While the birds are roasting or baking, place as many 
small slices of bread in the dripping or baking pan, and 
serve a bird over each slice. Cut the slices cither square, 
round, or oval, about on^fourth of an inch in thickness, 
and laige enough to hold the bird. 

Hunter-like, — ^Prepare small birds as described for 
quails, hunter-like; it makes an excellent dish. 

In Salmis, — ^Roasted or baked small birds can be pre- 
pared in salmis when cold. Many amateurs prefer small 
birds not- drawn ; that is, the crop only is taken off, but 
nothing of the inside is disturbed ; they pretend that they 
have a better taste when cooked thus ; of course, every 
one to his taste. 

High-holders, lapwings, meadow-larks, plovers, rails, 
roUnSj snipes, thrushes, woodcocks, woodpeckers, and yellow- 
birds are prepared as above. 

Small birds have a better flavor when cooked after 
being somewhat seasoned than when cooked fresh, but they 
must not be tainted. As long as the rump is stiff*, they 
are good ; if soft, they must be examined carefully, as they 
might be tainted. When young, there is no stiffness in 
the legs. Small birds are generally put by the half dozen 



L 



2S0 OAHE. 

on the same skewer, as setii in the cut (p. 3V8)*; but 
whcu a little laiger, like the robin or plover, thej may bo 
trussed as directed for Boipes. 

Grouae or Kealhcoch. — These are good as long as the 
legs are flexible ; if not, examine tbem carefully, tbey might 
be rotten inside. 

Lard tbem well, envelop each in buttered paper, and 
place on the spit before a good fire ; baste often, remove 
the paper after twenty or twenty-five rainatca ; leave two 
or three minutes more, basting continually with the drip- 
pings; disb the birda; mix with the drippings a few drops 
of lemon-juice, and a little salt and pepper, and serve with 
the birds. 

Baked. — Lard tbe bird- aa for roasting; that is, the 
fleshy parts only are larded with salt pork, then truss tbem 
as directed for chicken, place them in a baking-pan, cover 
the bottom of the pan with cold water, put a piece of but- 
tered paper on each bird, place in a hot oven, baste often 
till done. Serve with the gravy some wateiMireBs, and 
lemon-juice, or vinegar. 

It is also prepared, cooked, and served in the different 
ways described for prairie-hen, either in chartreuse, salmia, 
salad, or any other way. 

Hare. — No harea have yet been found in tbe United 
States, except in California. The reported hare of tbe Wesl- 
'em pniiries is, as &r as known, a species of rabbit. That 
fonnd in the Eastern markets comes from Canada and Eu- 
rope. The Canadian hare is very inferior in quality. 

"o select. — When young it has rather soft paws, and 
Quch opened, and also soft ears ; but if old, the paws' 
ard and much worn, and the ears stiff and hard. If 
, the body is stiff; it is soft, and the flesh is nearly 
:, if tabted. Save the blood as much as possible ; it 
oves the sauce very much. 



GAME. 881 

In Civet — ^When the hare is cleaned as* directed for 
game, cnt in pieces. Have in a saucepan and on a good 
fire two ounces of butter and one of salt pork cut in dice. 
Stir, and when the salt pork is fried take it off the pan, and 
put the pieces of hare in it ; stir with a wooden spoon 
now and then, till of a fine golden color ; then sprin- 
kle on it a teaspoonful of flour, add ten small onions, four 
sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, two cloves of garlic, a bay- 
leaf, salt, pepper, about a pint of claret wine, same of 
broth, three or four mushrooms, and a little grated nut- 
meg ; bt>il gently till done ; dish the pieces of hare •, throw 
away parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, and garlic ; mix the blood of 
the hare, if any, in the sauce, boil it about ten minutes 
longer, turn it on the hare, and serve warm. 

Many epicures like a civet better when prepared one 
or two days in advance, and only warmed before serving. 
When the civet is done, and ready to serve, place the dish 
•in a cool, dry place, and when you want to eat the civet, 
place the dish, in a hain-marie^ or in an oven, and serve 
• when warm. 

The same, roasted, — Lard the hare well ; place it on 
the spit before a good fire ; baste often with the drippings, 
and when properly cooked serve it with the following 
sauce : put in a stewpan a piece of butter the size of a wal- 
nut, and set it on a good fire ; when melted, put in it the 
hare's liver well pounded, then the blood, if any, also the* 
drippings, salt, pepper, a tablespoonful of white wine, same 
of broth, and one teaspoonful of vinegar ; when of a proper 
thickness, serve with the hare. 

It takes about an hour to roast it well. 

In a small family, the hind part is roasted, and the fore 
part of the hare is dressed in civet. • 

Baked, — ^Lard it with salt pork and bake it, basting 
often ; serve in the same way as a roasted one. 



282 GAME. 

Thesame^ next day. — ^If any is left from the day before, 
warm it and serve, if in civet; cut in slices and serve cold, 
with an oil-sauce, if roasted. 

Leveret, — Cook and serve like a bare. 

A leveret may also be sauted like a cbickeo. 

Fkeasantj to select, — When youug, the claws are short 
and round at the end, while they are long and sharp when 
old. They are not fresh when the rump is of a bluish 
cofor, but some amateurs like them then ; in that state, 
they iare said to have a venison taste. Some hang the 
bird by the feathers of the tail and leave it so till It faJk; . 
then they prepare and eat it. It does not Mi until 
very " high," or rather when tainted. They ought not to 
be cooked when very fresh, as they have not as delicate a 
taste then as when rather " high." 

Pheasants are prepared^ cooked, and served like prairie- 
birds in every way. 

Crane, Ostrich, Peacocky Pelican, or other Large Birds, • 
— These birds are seldom eaten. When old, they are tough, 
and of a disagreeable taste. When young, they are not * 
so bad, and may be prepared like a turJeey stuffed or stewed 

Prairie-bird, Prairie-hen, and Partridge, — An old 
prairie-hen has a white bill and bluish legs; when young, 
the bill is of a rather dark-gray color, and the legs are 
yellowish. As. long as the rump does not- turn bluish, it 
is fresh enough. 

To prepare, — ^Clean and prepare a prairie-hen as di- 
rected for poultry in general 

Baked. — Glean and prepare the bird as directed, then 
cut off the claws to about half their length. Truss the 
prairie-hen as directed for chicken, and then cover its breast 
with a thin slice of fat salt pork, but do not cover the back 
of the bird. Tie the salt pork with twine. Place the 



GAME. 283 

prairie-hen on its back in the baking-pan, with a piece of 
butler the size of a wahiut on it ; set it in a quick oven 
(about 400 deg. Fahr.), baste often, and serve when rather 
underdone. While the bird is baking, prepare some fresh 
water-ciess, place some of it all around the bird; mix 
lemon-juice with the gravy and turn it over the bird and 
water-cress, and serve warm. It may also be served after 
being baked, the same as directed for a roasted one. 

Broiled, — Clean and prepare as directed, then split the 
back of the prairie-hen so as to open it ; salt, peppS*, and 
butter it by means of a brush ; place it on the gridiron 
over a good fire ; turn over three or four times ; as soon 
as done, sprinkle on it a Httle allspice, dish the bird, spread 
a maitre d'httel sauce on it, and serve warm. It is also 
served with a piquantey poivrade, or ravigote sauce. 

Another way, — Split the prairie-hen in two lengthwise 
so as to make two equal pieces. Put one ounce of butter 
in a stewpan and set it on a good fire; when melted, lay 
the two halves of the bird in ; turn over and leave them 
till a little more than half cooked, when take them off. 
Envelop each piece in buttered paper, place them on the 
gridiron, and set it on a rather brisk fire for about fifteen 
minutes, turning over once only, and serve with the fol- 
lowing sauce : Put with the butter in the pan in which 
was the bird, about a teaspoonfiil of chopped parsley, 
same of chopped mushrooms, salt, pepper, and a pinch of 
allspice ; sprinkle in and stir at the same time a teaspoon- 
ful of flour ; add a gill of white wine, same of broth ; boil 
gently till of a proper thickness, and serve the bird with 
it, either pn the same dish or separately. Serve as warm 
as possible. . 

With Cabbage, — Clean and truss the prairie-chicken 
as directed for birds ; fry it a little vrith butter, just enough ' 



284 GAME. 

to color it ; then place a cabbage, previously blanched, cut 
in fonr pieces, all around it ; also about four ounces of lean 
salt pork, one onion whole ; just cover the whole with cold 
water (it requires about one pint of it if the pan is of a 
proper size) ; when the cabbage is boiled down, baste oc- 
casionally with the juice, and if it boils away add a little 
broth or water ; keep enough to baste till done, when dish 
the prairie-chicken with the cabbage around, also the salt 
pork if liked; turn the juice all over through a strainer. 
In casS it is not* salt enough, add salt while basting. The 
flesh of a prairie-chicken is naturally dry, and by being 
(looked with cabbage it is kept moist all the time and is 
juicy when done. For those who have no prejudice against 
cabbage, it is the best way to prepare a prairie-bird. 

Another way, — Lard two prairie-birds as directed for 
larding, after being cleaned and prepared as directed. Put 
in a stewpan half a pound of bacon cut in slices, with four 
onions, two carrots cut in pieces, a small dried or Bologna 
sausage, two sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, two cloves, a 
bay-leaf, a little grated nutmeg, and a cabbage cut rather 
fine, and which is to be previously thrown in boiling 
water and boiled ten minutes ; then the two partridges or 
prairie-hens ; place over the whole four ounces of bacon 
cut in thin slices, cover with broth, set the pan on a sharp 
fire, and when it has boiled about fifteen minutes, subdne 
the fire, or put the pan in a moderately heated oven, sim- 
mer about two hours if the partridges are old, and one 
hour if they are young ; then take from the fire, place the 
partridges on a dish with the sausage cut in pieces around 
them, drain the cabbage and put it on another dish with 
the bacon, strain the sauce on both dishes, and serve. 
In Chartreuse, — It is made in a mould for Charlotte 
* rv^se, or in one like the cut following. Glean the prairie- 






GAME. 285 

hen as directed for birds ; put it in a baking-pan with one 
onnce of butter spread on it, also salt and pepper, and a 
gill of cold water in the paD, and bake till underdone, 
when cut it in seven pieces, making three slices in the 
breast, lengthwise. Peel and slice two carrots and two 
turnips ; cut the slices about an inch thick ; then cut again 
in small round pieces, with a frait>corer, about half an 
inch in diameter; set them on the fire with cold water and 
salt, boil gently till done, drain and turn immediately in 
cold water, and they are ready to be used. Put a small 
head of cabbage in a saucepan with half a pound of lean 
salt pork, just cover it with cold water, and boil gently till 
done. The prairie-hen, carrots, and turnips, and the cab- 
bage, may be cooked at the same time, but separately, as 
directed. When the cabbage is done, turn it into a col- 
ander, cut it rather fine with a spoon, press gently on it 
to get the water out as much as possible without mash- 
ing it through the colander, and- it is ready to be used. 
Butter the mould well; place slices of boiled beets on the 
bottom ; some letters or flowers may be cut in beet, the 
intervals or holes filled with turnips and carrots ; when the 
bottom is lined with beets, carrots, and turnips, lay hori- 
zontally a row of pieces of carrots all around and against 
the sides of the mould ; place a similar one of turnips on 
the carrots, and so ou, the last row being as high as the 
top of the mould. Then put a layer of 'the cabbage on 
the bottom, about half an inch thick — ^that' is, on the car- 
rots, turnips, and beets — ^place a like layer on the sides 
with a spoon ; put the pieces of prairie-hen in the middle, 
cover with a layer of cabbage, and bake about fifteen min- 
utes in an oven at about 350 deg. Fahr. The meat must 
not touch the carrots or turnips, but be entirely surrounded 
with cabbage, else it would crumble down in removing the 



mould. As soon as the mould is taken ont of the oven, 
place a dish over it and turn it upside down, leave it ao 
about ten minutes to allow the juice to come oat, then re- 
move the mould carefully, and serve. 

The cut below reprcBcnts a eharlreuse made exactly 
like the one described above, with the eaception that in- 
stead of having a row of carrots and a row of -turnips, 
they are mixed, that is, placed alternately, the white spots 
representing pieces of turnips and the black spots pieces 
of carrots — the top being decorated according to fancy. 

According to the size of the mould, two, three, or more 
prairie-hens may be prepared at one time and in the same 
mould. 



Soatted. — Rub the stomach and legs of the birds with 
lemon, then envelop those parts with slices of bacon tied 
with twine, or fixed with small skewers; after which en- 
velop the whole bird in buttered paper tied with twine; 
place them on ^ spit before a good fire, take the paper off 
after twenty or thirty minutes, according to the age of the 
bird; leave two or three minutes longer, baste often during 
the process of roasting, with the drippings ; dish the birds 
without removing the slices of bacon ; mis in the gravy 
the juice of half a lemon, or half an orange, a little salt 
and pepper, and serve it with the birds. It may also be 



GAME. 287 

served witli water-cress and lemon-juice or vinegar. When 
roasted or baked and dished, place carpels of oranges all 
around, and serve. 

A roasted or baked prairie-hen is also served \Wth the 
following sauces : anchovy, caper, Champagne, cranberry, 
and ravigote or tomato, and currant-jelly. 

With Mushrooms, — ^When roasted or baked, serve it 
with a garniture of mushrooms. It is also served with a 
garniture of cauliflowers, financiered Mac4doiney and of 
truffles. 

In Fricassee, — Prepare, cook, and serve it like chicken 
in friccLssie, 

In Crapaudine, — ^Proceed as for pigeons in crapaudine, 
the only difference being that it takes a little longer to 
cook. It ia also prepared and served as a quail, hunter- 
like. It takes longer to cook than a quail. 

Saute,^^C\esaij prepare, cut, cook, dish, and serve the 
prairie-bird as a chicken saute. 

Stewed, — Clean, prepare, and truss the bird as directed. 
Put about one ounce of bntter and two ounces of fat salt 
pork, cut in dice, in a saucepan,, and set it on a quick fire ; 
toss gently, and when the butter is melted, put the bird in 
and brown it all around ; then add four small onions, half 
a carrot in slices, salt, and pepper ; stir till the onions and 
carrot are partly fried ; then add half a pint of broth, same 
of «Fhite wine, a bunch of seasonings composed of four or 
five stalks of parsley, one of thyme, one bay-leaf, and a 
clove ; boil gently till done ; dish the bird, turn the sauc% 
over it through a strainer, and serve warm. Thus stewed, it 
may be served with the following purees : asparagus, beans, 
•lentils, lima beans, mushrooms, and peas. 

Cold, — ^A whole bird or part of it left from the pre- 
ceding day's dinner, if it has been broiled, baked, or 



288 GAME. 

roasted, is prepared and served in salad, like a chicken 
salad ; or in salmis, 

. Boned. — ^A boned prairie-bird makes an excellent dish 
and a%ost nutritious and warming one. Persons Laving 
a phlegmatic constitution ought to^ partake of it at least 
twice a week during hunting-time. Always select a very 
fresh and fat bird to bone. Pick, bone, fill, cook, and 
serve it as described for boned turkey. A prairie-ben is 
more easily boned, when fresh, than an ordinary chicken. 
The addition of truffles (about half a pound for one bird) 
makes it still richer and warmer. 

In Croquettes, — ^Prepare, cook, and serve as chicken 
croquettes. 

Quails, — ^A quail, like a prairie-bird, is old when it 
has a white bill and bluish legs ; whei; young, the bill is 
of a rather dark-gray color, and the legs are yellowish. 
Quails are just the contrary of pheasants ; the more fresh 
they are when cooked, the better. 

To prepare, — ^When cleaned and prepared as directed 
for poultry, cut off the end of the claws, and then tmss it 
as a chicken, sprinkle salt and pepper on the breast. Got 
thin sUces of fat salt pork, somewhat square, and of a 
proper size to cover the breast of the bird, but not the 
back. Tie it to the bird with two pieces of twine, then 
roast or bake. 

Another way to prepare them, — ^When cleaned, pre- 
pared, and trussed as above, envelop the bird with grape- 
vine leaves, then in thin slices of salt-pork, and roast or 
bake them. They may also be enveloped in buttered 
paper, after being prepared, instead of salt pork or gw^ 
vine leaves, or instead of both, but only to roast them ; if • 
baked, the buttered paper is placed over the birds. 

Baked, — Place the birds on their backs in a baking- 



GAME. 289 

pan, witli a piece of butter the size of a hazel-nut on each ; 
just cover the bottom of the pan with cold water, and set 
in a quick oven (about 400° Fahr.) and baste now and 
• then. When about half done, put the liver of the birds, 
well pounded, in the baking-pan, and continue basting till 
done. While the quails are baking, cut as many square 
slices of stale bread as you have quails, about three inches 
broad and one-fourth of an* inch thick ; fiy them in hot 
fat, place them on the dish, place a quail with the breast 
if|)ward on each slice ; remove the twine, turn the gravy 
over them and serve warm. Water-cress may be placed 
between each bird, as well as all around, and in the mid- 
dle of the dish, with vinegar or lemon-juice sprinkled all 
over. It must also be served warm. 

Sunter4iJce {au Chasseuf): — Clean and prepare as di- 
rected for birds. Set a saucepan on the fire with two 
ounces of butter to melt, then put in it four quails trussed 
as for roasting; turn them round in the pan to color every 
side ; add then half a dozen stalks of parsley, salt, pepper, 
and nearly cover them with broth and white wine, half of 
each ; boil gently till done. Dish the quails, and put them 
away in a warm place. Strain the sauce and put it back 
on the fire with a tablespoonful of meunierej boil rather 
fast till it commences turning thick, turn over the quails 
and serve warm. 

Roasted. — When cleaned and prepared as directed, 
envelop the birds in grape-vine. leaves and salt pork, or in 
buttered paper, as directed above, and place them on the 
spit before a moderate though good fire. Have slices of 
roasted bread in the dripping-pan, baste often with the 
drippings, and when done remove the twine, or the twine 
and p^er, but, neither the salt pork nor the grape-vine 
leaves, and serve warm. The slices ctf bread are placed 
• 13 



290 GAME. 

on the dish, then a quail on each slice. Water-cress may 
also be served as aboye. 

Quails roasted with grape-vine leaves are considered 
one of tiie most recherche dishes. When about half 
roasted, the liver of the birds, well pounded, is put in the 
dripping-pan, and the drippings are turned over the birds 
when dished. When pounded, the livers may be spread 
on the slices of bread before placing them in the dripping- 
pan. 

With Oreen Peas, — ^When the quails are roasted •r 
baked, they may be served with green peas aujus. They 
may also be served on a piree of celery or of mushrooms. 
In Chartreuse, — Proceed exactly as for a chartreuse of 
prairie-bird. Quails may be served in every way like 
prairie-hens, stewed^ in salad, in salmis, etc. 

Rabbit — to select — A rabbit, like almost every other 
kind of game, has a better taste when a little seasoned, 
but not too much so. As long as the body is rather stiff, 
it is good ; but when soft, and when the flesh has a black- 
bluish appearance, it is necessary to examine it carefully, 
as it might be tainted. A young rabbit has sofb paws, 
and are not much opened ; but an old one has them 
open, hard, and worn out. The ears of a young one are 
very soft, while those of an old one are stiff and com- 
paratively rough. The blood of the rabbit is a great im- 
provement when mixed with the sauce or gravy accom- 
panying it when served ; therefore, we emphatically and 
earnestly ask of hunters, when they kill rabbits, to place 
them in their game-bags in such a position that the place 
where the shots have penetrated and through which the 
blood is escaping, be upward, and consequently stop the 
spilling of it. • . 

Tame rabbits, unless they have been kept in a laige 



GAME. 291 

place, well fed, free from any manure or dirt, and having 
also plenty of room to burrow in a dry soil, are very sel- 
dom fit to eat. 

To lard, — ^The fleshy parts of a rabbit are larded with 
salt pork in the same way as described for a fillet of beef. 

Baked, — To bake it, it may be larded or not, accord- 
ing to taste. When cleaned and prepared^ as directed for 
game, place the rabbit in a baking-pan, with a few slices 
of onion and carrot ; salt, pepper, and butter it ; cover the 
bottom of the pan with cold wattr and set it in a quick 
oven. After ten or fifteen minutes, turn the rabbit over, 
baste and cover it with a piece of buttered paper. Con- 
tinue basting till done. When about half done, if the 
water and juice are boiling away or absorbed, add more 
water or broth, and when done turn the gravy over the 
rabbit through a strainer, and serve with water-cress and 
a few drops of lemon-juice or -vinegar. 

It is also served with a cr.anherry^ fines kerhes, mush- 
Toorrij piqtuinte, ravigote, tomato, and truffle sauce. 

In Chartreuse. — A rabbit is prepared in chartreuse the 
same as, a prairie-chicken ; the only difference is, that it 
requires a larger .mould ; the rest of the process is the 
same. 

In Civet, or stewed, — Cut the rabbit in pieces, and fiy 
them with a little butter till turning rather brown, when 
add half a pound of lean salt pork cut in dice ; stir and 
fry two or three minutes, stir in also a tablespoonful of 
flour ; one minute after add a half pint of broth, same of 
claret wine, salt, twelve small onions, and a bunch of 
seasonings, composed of three or four sprigs of parsley, 
one of thyme, a bay-leaf, a clove of garlic, one clove. 
Boil gently till done ; throw away the bunch of season- 
ings, and serve warm. In case it is not handy to use 



claret wine, use a gill of Madeira, or Port, or Sherry wine, 
and one gill of water, "Witiout wine at all it makea no 
ioferior dish, 

A civet made tliree or four days ih advance, and 
■ warmed in a bain-moTU for ten minutes, once every day, i* 
better than if eaten as aoon as made. 

In ease the «ance is becoming too thick, after warming 
the rabhit several times, add a little broth, and also a lit- 
tle btitter ; stir gently, and always serve as warm as pos- 

In Crapavdim. — When elesned and prepared as di- 
rected, coot and serve the rabbit as described for pigeon i 
_in crapaudine, with the exception that it takes a Kttle 
longer to cook ' ( 

In Groquettes. What may be left &om the ptecediog i 
day's dinner of a baked, roasted, or stuffed rabbit, maybe | 
prepared in croquettes, in the same way as chicken en- i 
quetlei. • \ 

With Currant-Jellj/. — A rabbit served with currwit- 
jelly mates a sightly dish, hut it requires care and taste. 
Skin the rabbit carefully, leaving the ears unskinnod- Cot 
the legs at the first joint, then dip the ears in hot (bnt not I 
boiling) water, and scrape off the hair carefiilly. Draw it 
and wash the inside carefully also, putting away the liver, | 
heart, and lungs. Chop fine one middling-sized onioD, 
and fry it with about one ounce of butter ; then add to j 
the onion, and fry them also, the heart, liver, and lungs oF 
the rabbit, after being chopped fine, when add a tea- 
spoonfiil of chopped parsley, salt, pepper, nntmee grated, 
and a piece of clove also grated. Stir for about one 
minute, take from the fire, mis with it two yolks of eggs 
and one ounce of butter. Fill the rabbit with the mix- 
tare, sew np the incision made to draw it, and then trass 



GAME. ■ 293 

it in the following way : Put the rabbit on the paste-board 
so that it appears as if it were resting, lying on its belly. 
Skewer the ears so that they seem to be naturally bent 
on the back of the neck. With a trassing-needle fasten 
the forelegs so that they look also as if naturally bent by 
the animal when at rest. Eoast or bake it, and serve it 
with the gravy and currant or raspberry jelly. 

It is placed on the dish lying on its belly, the skewers 
and twine are removed, and a few sprigs of parsley are 
placed in its mouth. The cUrrant-jelly may be served in 
a saucer and the gravy in another. 

In Oihelotte, — ^The only difference between a gihetotte 
and a civet is that the latter is made with claret wine and 
the former with Sauterne or Catawba. Other white wine 
may be used, but the two kinds above mentioned are the 
best. 

Marengo, — When cleaned and prepared as directed, 
cut the rabbit in pieces ; keep the head, neck, and trim- 
mings, to make a potage au chasseur, and cook and serve 
the rest as a chicken h la Marengo, 

. In Papillotes, — ^The four legs and two pieces cut on 
both ^ides of the backbone may be prepared, cooked, and 
served as veal cutlets in papillotes. The rest is used to 
make a potage au chasseur. 

With Olives, — When baked or roasted, serve it as a 
duck with olives, putting three dozen olives instead of two. 

Roasted, — It mav be roasted with onlv a little butter 
spread all over it, or enveloped in buttered paper ; or larded 
with salt pork ; or larded and enveloped in buttered paper. 
It must be basted often, and if enveloped with paper, the 
paper must be removed about fifteen minutes before tak- 
ing the rabbit from the fire. Ascertain when done by 
means of a skewer or a small sharp-pointed knife. It 



294 GAME. 

takes about forty-five minutes to roast, according to size 
and fire. When roasted it may be served with its gravy 
or drippings only, or with a cranberry, fines herhes, mush- 
room, piquante, Provengale, ravigote, Tartar, tomato, or 
truffle sauce. 

With Green Peas, — ^When baked or roasted, serve it 
with green peas au jus, 

'Saute, — ^When the rabbit is cleaned and prepared as 
directed, proceed as for a chicken saute in every par- 
ticular. 

Sportsmanrlike, — Clean and prepare the rabbit, then 
cut off" the neck, head, and the end of the -legs, which 
you keep to make a potage au chasseur. Put the rest in 
a crockery vessel with the juice of a lemon, salt, and pep- 
per. Leave thus for at least one day, turning it over two 
or three times. Then bake or roast it, and serve with 
the gravy and water-cress. 

Stewed, — ^When cleaned and prepared, cut the rabbit 
in pieces. iPut in a saucepan three ounces of butter and 
set it on the fire ; as soon as melted, put the pieces of 
rabbit in, stir now and then till they are turning rather 
brown, then take them from the pan but keep it om the 
fire. Put in it a rather small carrot and two or three 
onions, both sliced, a few slices of turnip, half a dozen 
sprigs of parsley, two of celery, one of thyme, the last 
three tied together with twine, and two or three cloves, 
also half a pint of Madeira or Sherry wine, salt, and pep- 
per ; cover the whole with broth or water ; boil gently 
till half done, when add the rabbit, and continue boiling 
till the whole is done, stirring once in a while. Dish the 
rabbit, mash the onions, carrot, and turnip, through a col- 
ander, which you put all around the pieces of rabbit, 
strain the sauce over the whole, and serve warm. 



GAME. 295 

Cold. — ^Wliat is left is warmed and served, if from a 
civet, gibelotte, stewed, etc., and served with a vinaigrette, 
if froEQ a roasted or baked piece. It may also be served 
with a piquante, poivrade, or ravigote sauce. 

Snipe — to truss. — Prepare as directed for poultry. 
Cut the wings off just above the second joint, as seen 
in the cut below. The head and legs must be cleaned 
very carefully. By heating the lower part of the legs and 
the claws, the skin can be easily removed, but this is not 
necessary, they may be singed and washed only. Fold 
the legs and run the bill of the bird through the two legs 
and the body. Put. a slice of fat salt pork on the breast 
of the snipe, which you fasten there with twine, as seen 
in the cut below. The cut represents the bird on the spit, 
ready for roasting. 




Stewed, — Take four snipes and pound the livers, hearts, 
and lungs well with about the same amount of fat salt 
pork ; then add to them about a teaspoonful of parsley 
chopped fine, and the yolk of an Qgg\ divide the mixture 
in four parts and put each part in a bird, which you sew 
and truss as directed. Line the bottom of a stewpan with 
slices of salt pork and lay the snipe on them ; set on a 
slow fire for ten minutes, add about half a pint of white 
wine, same of broth; simmer till done, dish the birds, 
strain the gravy on- them, sprinkle a few drops of lemon- 
juice over the whole, and serve warm. Snipes are served 



296 QAME. 

in several ways, as described for bobolinks and otlier 
small birds. 

Salmis, — A salmis is made with tame ducks and any 
kind of game birds. 

Birds may be roasted or baked to make a salmis, but 
most generally it is made witb cold birds, that is, what is 
loffc from the previous day's dinner. It is certainly the 
best way to make use of cold birds. The proportions of 
the different seasonings are according to the proportion 
of meat. We give below the proportions for a whole 
bird ; it will be easy to augment or reduce. Put two 
ounces of butter in a saucepan and set it on the fire ; a& 
soon as melted stir into it a tablespoonfdl of flour ; when 
turning rather yellow add one pint of broth, same of 
claret wine, a bunch of seasonings composed of four or 
five sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, a bay-leaf and a 
clove, also salt, pepper, and a clove of garlic ; boil gently 
about thirty-five minutes. Strain the sauce into a sauce- 
pan. Cut the bird or part of bird in pieces, the same as 
they are generally carved ; put them in the pan with the 
sauce ; place the saucepan in a bain-m^rie till the meat is 
warm, add some lemon-juice, and serve. While the meat 
is warming, cut some stale bread in croutons^ fry them 
with a little butter. 

To serve,-^^ A sahnis is served in two ways: first, the 
croutons are placed on the dish, a piece of meat is put on 
each, and then the sauce is poured all over; second, 
dish the meat and sauce, jplace the croutons all around the 
dish, with a piece of lemon or bitter orange between each 
crouton. When the croutons are served under the pieces 
of meat, you must have as many as there are pieces ; 
when served around the dish, have enough, of them, and 
of slices of lemon, to surround the dish. The croutons and 



GAME. 297 

slices of lemon are always placed aroand the meat and 
on* the border of the dish. The lemon or orange is first 
split in two lengthwise, then cut in eight, twelve, or six- 
teen slices, always commencing to cat on the inside and 
finishing by the rind. Chop fine the bones, heaii;, and 
liver of the bird, and put them in the saucepan at the 
same time with the broth. Truffles or mushrooms sliced 
may be added to the sauce, if liked, but only when 
strained. 

Another, — Carve the bird or part of it, and serve cold 
with the following sauce pound the liver of the bird and 
put it in a saucer ; add to it a little vinegar, salt, pepper, 
and stir and mix the whole ; then add about three tim^ 
as much oil as vinegar, mix again, then lemon-juice, stir, 
and serve. It may be made without vinegar at all, using 
lemon-juice instead of vinegar to mix at first 



OPOSSUM, OTTER, RACCOON, SKUNK, FOX, WOODCHUCK, 

. AND OTHER LIKE ANIMALS. 

We cannot say that we have had much experience in 
cooking the above animals, but they are all eaten by many 
persons, in different parts of this and other countries. 
We have tasted of all of them except the raccoon, 
and we must say that we found them palatable. It is 
well known that when our soldiers retook possession of 
Ship Island, they found plenty of raccoons on it, and ate 
all they could catch. One day we happened to meet a 
sub-officer, who was there at the time, and inquired of him 
about it. He said he had never eaten any raccoons be- 
fore, and did not know that they were eatable ; but now 
he couFd eat them as readily as rabbits, as they were quite 
as good. 

13* 



298 GAME. 

The best time to eat any of the animals enumerated 
above is from Christmas to the 15th of February. 

How to prepare them, — As soon as the animal is killed 
skin it, take the inside out, save the liver and heart, and 
wash well with lukewarm water and a little salt, inside 
and out; then wipe dry with a towel, put inside a. 
fewjeaves of sage, bay-leaves, mint, and thyme, and sew 
it up. Hang it outside in a place sheltered from the sun, 
such as the northern side of a building ; leave it thus five 
or six days, then take off, and cook. 

How to skin a Skunk, — ^We were hunting one day in 
New Jersey, northwest of Paterson,' with a friend and two 
farmers living there, when one of them shot a skunk. We 
asked him how much he could get for the skin. He said 
it was not worth while to take it to town, but that he 
would eat the animal, as it was very good. 

We thought at first that he was joking ; but putting 
his gun and game-bag to the ground, he looked at us 
earnestly, and said, "Gentlemen, you seem to doubt; I 
will show you how it is done." We soon* saw that we 
had been mistaken. 

He made a fire, took hold of the skunk by the head 
with one hand, and with a stick in the other held the 
skunk over the fire. He burnt off nearly all the hiur, 
taking care to avoid burning the skin, commencing at the 
hind legs ; then with his hunting-knife he carefully ent 
off the bag containing the fetid matter, and skinned and 
cleaned it. 

We then examined the slgink, and although it had not 
been washed, we could not find any part of it with a bad 
smell, and if we had not seen the whole operation we cer- 
tainly would not have thought that it was a skunk, the 
very name of which is repulsive. 



GAME. 299 

The following week we dined with the farmer, ate some 
of that identical skunk, and found it very good. 

Sow to cook the above-Tiamed Animals, — ^Take out the 
leaves of sage, etc., which you put in the animal before 
exposing it to the weather. Pound well the liver and 
heart with about the same quantity of bacon, then mix 
that with two or three teaspoonfiils of chopped parsley, a, 
pinch of grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper ; stuff the animal 
with that mixture, and also with six small onions fried in 
butter, and a buncb of seasoning composed of four sprigs 
of parsley, three of thyme, two cloves, two cloves of garlic, 
and two bay-leaves, and sew it up again. Butter it well 
all over, place it on a spit before a very quick fire ; put 
three or four sage-leaves in the dripping-pan, and baste 
often with the drippings. Serve it when cooked with 
the gravy, throwing away the sage-leaves. • 

It may also be served with a Mayonnaise^ ravigote, or 
T^artor sauce. 

Squirrel, — A squirrel is prepared as a rabbit in every 
particular. 

VENISON. 

If young, the hoof is not much opened, and the fat is 
thick and clear ; when old, the hoofs are wide open. To 
know if it is fresh enough, run a knife or a skewer through 
the leg or through the shoulder, and if it does not smell 
bad and stale, it is good. It is not as delicate when fresh 
as when it has been killed for five or six days. If fresh 
when you buy it, keep it from three to eight days before 
cooking it. 

To improve. — Put the piece of venison in a crqpkcry 
vessel. For about six pounds put a pint of vinegar in a 
saucepan with two bay-leaves, two cloves, two cloves of 



300 GAME. 

garlic, one onion sliced, two stalks of thyme, four of pars- 
ley, and twelve pepper-coms ; set it on the fire, give one 
boil, and turn over the piece of venison. Turn the piece 
of meat over occasionally for one or two days, and then 
cook it 

Another way. — ^Lard the piece of venison and put it 
in a crockery vessel ; spread all over two or three onions 
and a clove or two of garlic (both sliced), half a gill of 
sweet-oil, same of claret wine, a pinch of allspice, fonr 
cloves, and two sprigs of thyme ; baste twice a day. for 
two or three days, and then cook. ' 

To hake. — ^Put the venison in a baking-pan with the 
seasonings in which it has improved ; spread some butter 
on it, and bake in a rather quick oven ; baste now and j 

then, and turn over if necessary. When baked, serve with 
a ravigote sauce, to which you have added the gravy ftom 
the pan in which it has been baked. Serve it also with a 
cranberry, piquante^ Robert ^ or Tartar sauce, or with cur- 
rant-jelly. 

In Civet — Shoulder, neck, and breast-pieces are cut 
and prepared in civet, in the same way as a civet of rabbit 

It may also be kept three or four days and warmed 
in a bairirmarie ; it improves it as much as that of rabbit 

With Mushrooms, — ^Any piece of venison, baked or 
roasted, may be sen'^ed with a garniture of mushrooms. 

Cutlets, broiled, — ^The cutlets are much better when 
improved as directed. The seasonings are spread all over. 
They are then wrapped up in buttered paper and broiled 
on a quick fire. They may also be larded with salt pork, 
and then broiled with or without being enveloped in paper. 
Whei^ broiled and dished, serve them warm with a maitre 
(Thdtel or ravigote sauce. 

Sautees, — Put six cutlets in a stewpan, larded or not, 



GAME. 301 

with salt, pepper, eight small onions, two carrots, four 
sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, two cloves, a bay-leaf, a 
gill of broth, and same of water ; set it on a good fire and 
boil gently till cooked. Dish the cutlets so that every 
small end or bone rests on the larger end of another, and 
serve with the sauce strained on them. If more sauce is 
desired, add to it any of the following: cranberry, piqiumte, 
ravigote, Robert^ or Tartar. 

Haunch, roasted,-'-^ Mtex, being improved, if liked, re- 
move the thin skin around it and lard it with salt pork ; 
it may be roasted without larding, but it is certainly an im- 
provement, the meat being naturally dry. Place it on the 
spit before a brisk fire and near it ; baste with melted but- 
ter first, and then with the drippings till done. If it is 
larded, it will require less butter. As soon as a kind of 
crust forjBs around the meat, remove it a little from the 
fire by degrees. Ascertain with a skewer or small knife 
when done. Venison is generally served rather underdone, 
when roasted or baked. 

To make the dish more sightly, the skin and hair of 
the lower part of the leg, together with the hoof, are left 
untouched. To prevent them from burning while it is 
roasting, envelop these parts with a wet towel, which you 
cover with several sheets of buttered or oiled paper. It 
may be necessary to dip the towel in water two or three 
times during the process of roasting. When roasted, 
serve with any of the following sauces : cranberry, piqtianie, 
poivrade, ravigote/ Hobert, or Tartar ; also with currant- 
jelly. If* served with the gravy only, add water-cress and 
lemon-juice or vinegar. 

Baked. — ^Prepare it as directed for roasting ; then place 
it in a bakepan with a little cold yater, just enough to 
cover the bottom of the pan ; sprinkle salt and pepper all 



over, spread Bomo butter on the npper side and put in a 
quick oren. Turn over aud baste now and then till done. 
If tbe water is absorbed, add more. When baked, serve 
with the same sauces as if roasted, and also with cur- 
rant-jelly and water-cress. 

Saddle. — Koast or bake the saddle, and serve it as 
directed for a haunch, with the same sauces, and also with 
water-cress and currant-jelly, 

S kimlder. —rCat the shoulder in fillets and lard them 
slightly. Put in a stewpan four ounces of butter and set 
it on a bris^c: fire ; when hot, lay the fillets in, and when 
of a golden color add the seasonings in which you have 
improved the saddle, or the same ones if you have not 
done it ; then subdue tbe fire, wet with a little warm broth, 
simmer till cooked, dish the fillets, straLn the aauce on 
them, and serve. It may also be dressed entire,- with the 
bones off; but it is more generally done in fillets. It is 
boned like a shoulder of mutton, and roasted or baked, 
and served like a haunch, with the same sauces and with 
currant-jelly or water-cress. 

Stewed. — Cut the meat in square pieces, about tsfo 

inches in size. Have in a stewpan, and on a good fire, « 

piece of butter the size of a duck's egg ; when melted, 

sprinkle in, little by little, a tablespoonful of flour, stirrii^ 

the while with a wooden spoon ; when getting ratlwr 

thick, add two ounces of bacon cut in dice, also half a pint 

of claret wine, same of warm water, salt, pepper, a pinch 

of allspice, two shallots chopped fine, or two green onions, 

four or five mushrooms, two cloves of garlic, aiid^sii 

lis ; then lay the meat on the whole, and boil gently 

ooked. Dish the meat, boil the sauce till of a btuwu- 

lolor, skim off the fat if there is too much of it, take 

the cloves of garhc, turn the sauce on the meat, and 

J hot. 



iH« 



GAME. 303 

With Truffles or Mushrooms, — Any part of venison, 
baked or roasted, njay be served with a garniture of mush- 
rooms, or one of truffles. 

Cold, — ^When you have some left for the next day, 
warm it before serving it, if from a stew ; but if from a 
roasted haunch, cut in alices and serve cold with a vinai- 
grette. 

. SNAILS. ■ 

A good many are now imported from Europe. 

How to clean and prepare. — Throw them in boiling 
water, in which you have put some wood-ashes ; leave 
them in till they have thrown their cover wide open, which 
will take about fifteen minutes ; then take theoi off, pul} 
them out of the shell by means of a fork, place them in 
lukewarm. water, and leave two hours; next, rub them in 
your hands, and then soak in cold water ; rub them again 
in your hands in cold water, two or three times, chang- 
ing the water each time, so as to take away most of their 
sliminess. Wash the shells in lukewarm water with a 
scrubbing-brush, and drain tl\em when clean. 

Broiled. — ^Knead together and make a paste of a suffi- 
cient quantity of butter, parsley chopped fine, salt, pepper, 
and grated nutmeg; say •about two ounces of butter, a 
tablespoonful of parsley, a saltspoonfiil of salt; a pinch of 
pepper, and the same of nutmeg (for two dozen). Put a 
piece of the above paste, the size of a kidney bean, in each 
shell, then the snails, and at the top again the same quan- 
tity, of paste ; lay them one by one close together, in a 
crockery or cast-iron kettle,^the mouth of the snails up, 
and not one upon another ; cover the kettle well ; set it 
on a moderate fire, or in a moderately heated oven, and 
leave thus till cooked, which is easily seen by the parsley 



304 GAME. 

beginning to turn black, or as if Med. Lay them on a 
dish in the same order, and if there Js any. gravy in the 
kettle, put a part of it in each shell, and serve hot 

In eating them, be careful after having taken off the 
snail and eaten it, to turn down the shell, for there is some 
juice in the bottom of it which is- delicious ; the best way 
is to drink it as if from the bottom of a glass. 

They can be broiled on a gridiron, but they are not 
as good as in a kettle ; some of the juice is lost, and also 
the flavor. 

Stewed^Vnt in a stewpan four ounces of butter for 
fifty snails, and set it on a good fire ; when melted, sprinkle 
in it a teaspoonful of flour, stirring a while ; then add a 
teaspoonful of parsley chopped fine, two s|>rigs of thyme^ 
a bay-leaf, a pint of white wine, and then the snails, which 
you have previously put back into their shells; cover* the 
whole with warm broth, boil gently till the sauce is rednced 
and the snails are cooked, and serve them mouth upward, 
and filled with the sauce. 






VEGETABLES 



Grebn vegetables most look fresh, and hinire nothing 
rotten about them. 

To boil or blanch Green Vegetables, — Whatever they 
are, spinach, green peas, asparagus, etc., put some cold 
water and a little salt on the fire ; clean the vegetable, 
wash it if necessary, then drop it in the water at the first 
boil ; keep boiling for a time or till done ; drain, and im- 
mediately drop it in cold water ; drain again before using. 
It is impossible to tell how long it takes to boil ; it depends 
entirely on the nature of the vegetable: for instance, 
spinach, as well as peas or any other vegetable, according 
to how tender it is, may take from three to twenty minutes 
to cook properly. Dry vegetables, such as beans, peas, 
lentils, etc., are washed ' or soaked in cold water, drained, 
and then set on the fire with cold water and no salt. Salt 
renders beans much harder and retards their cooking. 
Other vegetables that are neither green nor dry, such as 
carrots, turnips, etc., are generally set on the fire with cold 
water and salt. If prepared in other ways, it is explained 
in the receipts. 

Potatoes are generally steamed ; when they must be 
boiled, it is explained. We recommend to drop the green 
vegetables in the water at the first boil, because, in boil- 



306 VEGETABLES. 

ing, water evaporates its gases and alkali, and is there- 
fore inferior for cooking purposes. Green vegetables are 
more acid here than in Europe, on account of the newness 
and richness of the soil ; so is some fruit. 

Artichokes, — ^The artichoke we refer to here is the plaDt 
somewhat resembling a thistle, having a large, scalj head, 
like the cone of the pine-tree ; the lower part of the leaves 
composing the head, with«the -broad receptacle underneath, 
is the eatable part. It is a native of Sicily, and is an ex- 
cellent and delicate vegetable. It grows well here, and the 
reason why >it is not more generally known is because some 
persons who are used to live on coarse food have under- 
rated it-^their palates not being fit to appreciate its deli- 
cate flavor. We recommend gardeners and farmers to 
cultivate it ; they wiU find a ready market. 

Mow to eat them raw. — Quarter them, take off the enter 
leaves and choke, and serve with oil, vinegar, mustard, salt, 
and pepper. 

JEow to cook, — Clean them and take off the oater 
leaves, throw them into boiling water, with parsley, salt, and 
pepper (they are cooked when the leaves come off easily), 
then take from the fire and drain, taking care to put them 
upside down. 

The same, * fried, — ^When cooked as above, cut the 
upper part of the leaves, and then cut them in eight pieces, 
take the choke off, dip each piece in a thin paste made of 
'flour, sweet-oil, beaten egg, vinegar, salt, and pepper, and 
fry them with a little butter. Serve them with sprigs of 
fried parsley'around. 

The same, stewed. — When cooked as directed aboyc, 
cut them in four pieces, and trim off the upper part of the 
leaves, take off the choke, and lay them in a stewpan; 
cover them with broth and set on a moderate fire; add 



^^ 



VEGETABLES. 307 

then one ounce of butter for six artichokes, one sprig of 
parsley, and two mushrooms cut in slices ; boil ten minutes, 
take the parsley off, and serve the artichokes with the 
mushrooms around; pour the sauce on the whole. 

In Vinaigrette. — Cook, and serve with a vinaigrette. 
The Jerusalem artichokes are dressed like potatoes. . 

Asparagus, — This is thought to be a native of Asia. 
The white asparagus sells dearer than the other kinds, 
but we cannot say that it is on account of its better qual- 
ity, it is*most likely for being more sightly when served. 
If it -is kept for some time before boiling it, place the 
bunch in about half an inch deep of cold water, the top 
upward, and keep in a cool place. There are only four 
ways of preparing asparagus without changing or destroy- 
ing the natural taste of the plant. The large ones, or 
what is called the first cut, is prepared in vinaigrette, 
white sauce, and fried ; the small one, or second cut, is 
cooked en petits pois—YikQ green peas. It is better and 
has more taste when boiled rather underdone, that is, 
taken from the water when still firm ; if boiled till soft, it 
loses its taste and is not crisp. 

To hoil, — Cut off some of the white part, so as to have 
the whole of one length if possible; then scrape the white 
end a little, soak in cold water for a few minutes, and 
drain. Tie it in small bunches of half a dozen or.a dozen, 
according to size, and drop them in boiling water and a 
little salt, at the firsjb boil of the water. Boil till rather 
underdone, take off, drain and drop in cold water imme- 
diately. Drain again, and it is ready to serve. 

^n Petits Pois, — Cut small asparagus in pieces about 
half an inch loiig, and blanch them for three minutes. 
Take off and drain ; then put them in a saucepan on the 
fire with two or three tablespoonfuls of brotb, stir now and 



y 



308 VEaETABLES. 

then for about two minntes, add a teaspoonful of flour; 
stir again, and as soon as mixed with the asparagus add 
also about one ounce of butter, salt, pepper, and chopped 
parsley, stir, and, when the butter is melted, serve. 

Fried. — ^Blanch the asparagus two minutes, drain it; 
dip each in batter and fry in hot fat. Take off with a 
skimmer when done ; and turn into a colander, salt it, and 
serve hot. 

In Vinaigrette. — Boil it as directed. When cold, 
serve with a vinaigrette. (This is also called d rkuile,) 

With White &auce. — ^While it is boiling, make a white 
sauce; drain the asparagus and serve both, sauce and 
vegetable, warm. The asparagus is not dropped in cold 
water. 

With Cream Sauce. — It is prepared and served as with 
a white sauce. 

In Omelet. — ^Boil the asparagus as directed, and when 
cool cut it in small pieces about half an inch long, and 
when the omelet is ready to be folded in two, a little 
while before taking from the fire, • place the asparagus in 
the middle, then fold and serve the omelet as if there were 
nothing in it. 

Green or String Beans, Dwarf or Snap BeoM, 
French Haricots, Pole Beans, ITidnej/ Beans, etc. — To pre- 
pare them when green and cooked with the pods.-^Bj^ 
move the string or thread that is on both sides, by 
partly breaking one end of the pod . and pulling length- 
wise, repeat the same for the other side ; cut them in 
■pieces half an inch long, soak them in cold water, and 
throw them into boiling water with a little salt. Boil them 
till cooked, which you will know by pressing one between 
your fingers to see if tender ; take them from the fire, 
throw them into cold water to cool, and drain them. 



VEGETABLES. 809 

Au jus, — Cook a quart of beans. Put two ounces of 
butter in a stewpan and set it on the fire ; when melted, 
put the beans in with a teaspoonful of chopped parsley ; 
stir five minutes ; then add a gill of broth, salt, and pep- 
per ; simmer twenty minutes, and, just on taking from the 
fire, mix in it two well-beaten yolks of eggs, with the 
juice of half a lemon, and serve. 

Maitre (ThoteL — ^Put in a stewpan two ounces of but- 
ter, and set it on a good fire ; when melted, put in it a 
quart of beans cooked in water, with a pinch of grated 
nutmeg, half a pint of milk, salt, pepper, and a teaspoon- 
fdl of chopped parsley ; keep stirring continually, boil ten 
minutes, take from the fire, mix in it two beaten yolks of 
eggs, and sprve. 

^ The same, with Onions, — Put two ounces of butter in 
a stewpan and set*it on the fire; when hot, put in it two 
onions cut in slices, and fry theib. Then add salt, pepper, 
a piDch of grated nutmeg, a saltspoonful of chopped pars- 
ley, and a quart of beans cooked in water; also half. a 
pint of boiling water ; boil ten minutes, stir with a wooden 
spoon, take from the fire, sprinkle in it a few drops of 
vinegar, and serve. 

The same, in Sala^, — Cook the beans in water, as di- 
rected above ; then put a layer of them in a crockery ves- 
sel, the layer to be about one inch thick ; then sprinkle 
on it salt and pepper ; repeat the same process till aU your 
bganQ are in ; cover and leave thus three or four hours ; 
then throw away the water, or xirain if convenient ; place 
the beans in a salad-dish, with the sweet-oil, vinegar, and 
parsley necessary ; move like a salad, and serve cold. 

Green, shelled, Lima, or other Beans. — Shell the beans, 
throw them in boiling water with a little salt, and when 
cooked drain them. Put two ounces of butter for a quart of 



310 VEGETABLES. 

beans in a saucepan, and when melted pnt tlic beans in with 
salt and pepper ; toss gently now and then for three or four 
miiiutes, then add about a teaspoonfiil of vinegar, or the 
juice of half a lemon, and half a teaspoonful of parsley chop- 
ped. Mix and serve warm. They may also be prepared as 
string-beans, either aujus, in maitre (Thdtel, or in salad. 

Dry Beans, TAma, White or Colored. — ^Dry beans must 
be soaked in water for some time. Some require to be 
soaked twenty-four hours, others only five or six hours. 
Those that require to be soaked long are not from the 
last harvest, but have been kept for two or more years. 
If you are not sure that the beans (especially the white) 
are from this year's crop, soak them for twenty-four hours 
in cold water, and then drain tnem. 

To boil. — ^Putthe beans in a saucepan with coldwat^, 
and boil gently till tender. If the w5ter boils away, fill 
up with cold water, but never put any salt to boil dry 
beans, it prevents them from cooking.- As soon as boiled 
tender, drain them, and they are ready for use. 

Au jus, — When boiled as above, set them on the fire 
in a stewpan with a few tablespoonfuls of gravy or orpth, 
salt, and a little butter, stir for two or three minutes, then 
add a little chopped parsley, and se^re warm. 

Maitre cThotei, — ^When boiled as above, drain. and put 
them in a saucepan with about three ounces of butter for 
a quart of beans, stir now and then, and when the butter 
is melted, add salt, pepper, a teaspoonfiil of chopped pajp- 
ley, and a few drops of vinegar ; just mix and serve. 

With Salt Pork. — ^Boil a quart of beans as directed 
above, and drain them. Cut in dice about half a pound 
of bacon and put it iii a saucepan on the fire ; when about 
half fried add the beans, mix and stir for one minute, then 
put in a warm oven for about twenty minutes, stirring 



/" 



VEGETABLES. \ 311 

occasionally; when done, sprinkle on it some parsley 
chopped fine, pepper and salt to taste, if not salt enough. 
There aie several ways of preparing " pork and beaus," 
but the one we give above is the most general in New 
England. The pork mnst neither be too fat nor too lean. 
It may be done also with ham and fresh pork. 

With Mutton. — ^Boil as directed about three pints of 
white beans and drain them. "When the leg of mutton is 
about half roasted, put the beans in the dripping-pan, and 
stir occasionally till the meat is done, and serve them with 
it. It makes a very nourishing dish, but it would be 
rather heavy for persons having sedentary avocations. 
Two quarts of beans would not be too much for a good- 
sized leg of mutton. It may also be prepared with any 
other piece of mutton ; shoulder, saddle, etc. 

BoUedvnth Mutton or Pork. — ^Prepare a quart of beans 
as directed, and then boil them ten minutes and drain 
them. Cut in rather large dice about two pounds of 
breast or neck of mutton or the same of pork, and of the 
same pieces, and put meat and beans in a stewpan, cover 
well with cold water ; season with a bunch of seasonings 
composed of five or six sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, a 
bay-leaf, and two cloves, salt, pepper, a little nutmeg 
grated, a carrot cut in three or four pieces, two onions, 
and a piece of turnip. Boil gently till the whole is 
thoroughly cooked; remove the seasonings, and serve 
meat and beans together. This makes also a nourishing 
dish and jiot an expensive one. The* nutritive qualities 
of beans are very well known, and very much exaggerated 
too. Even Professor Liebig once said that " four quarts 
of beans and two pounds of corned beef or pork boiled 
to rags, in fifty quarts of water, will furnish a good meal 
for forty men." 



We most Bay Hat we bare not been able to try the 
eKperiment, but we sbould like very mucli to see what 
kind and how much work forty men would do, afld for how 
.ong, with Bupb a diet Tbero are many things that loot 
or eeem well, and even magnificent in theory, though en- 
tirely impracticable. It sounds well, ea[)ecially to ihoK 
who do not understand the meaning of it, to Bay that we 
feed mostly on gluten, albumen, gelatine, etc, and that we 
require bo many ounces of carbon, oxygen, etc., in twenty- 
four hours. Every thing that we eat may be, with the 
exception of salt, tamed into charcoal ; but no one has yet 
been known to feed ou it. 

Colored Beans, stewed. — Soak, boil five minutes, anil 
drain a quart of beans. Put in a stewpan half a pound t^ 
. bacon and set it on the firp ; five ininiitj>fi aftur. not the 
beans in 
gently ti' 



beans, w 

aame of 
twenty L 

boil five 
disb. 

Beeb 
then), ] 
moisten 
and plac 
skiu thei 
butter in 
of flour, 

drops of 



VEGETABLES. 313 

Cabbages — to boil. — Take offtlieT)uter leaves, clean, cut 
in four pieces, free it from stump and stalk, and drop it in 
boiling \wter with a little salt and a piece of charcoal. 
Boil slowly till tender, and drain. Cabbage contains some 
sulphur, and evaporates an unpleasant odor while boiling, 
and especially while boiling fast. By putting a piece of 
charcoal ia the pot, it does not smell as much. 

With Bacon. — When boiled and drained, put the cab- 
bage in a stewpan with bacon, sausage, and a piece of 
breast of mutton ; cover with cold water, season with' three 
or four sprigs of parsley, a carrot, a clove, a little nutmeg, 
salt and pepper; boil till the whole is well cooked, remove 
^]ie seasonings and drain ; dish the cabbage, put the meat 
on it, and serve warm. 

With Milk, or a la Creme. — ^Boil and drain the cab- • 
bage as directed above. Put two ounces of butter in a 
saucepan, set it on a good fire, and when melted put the 
Jabbage in with salt and pepper. Sprinkle on it a tear 
spoonful of flour, add half a pint of cream or good milk; 
keep stirring with a wooden spoon during the whole pro- 
cess ; boil gently till the sauce is reduced, and serve warm. 

Stewed. — ^Boil and drain two large heads of cabbage, 
and cut them very fine. Put about three ounces of butter 
in a saucepan on the fire, and when melted put the cab- 
bage in and stir for Qyq minutes ; then add salt, pepper, 
and a pinch of flour ; wet with a pint of broth, boil till 
cooked and the sauce reduced, then serve warm. 

A VAllemande. — Blanch for ten minutes some white or 
green cabbage and drain it. Put six ounces of salt pork, 
cut in dice, in a saucepan on the fire, and when partly 
fried put two or three small heads of cabbage in, stu*, and 
when done, add a little gravy, and serve warm. 

With Apples. — ^Blanch for about ten minutes a head 
14 



314 VEGETABLES. 

of cabbage and drain it. Put two or three ounces of but- 
ter in a saucepan on the fire, and put the cabbage in when 
the butter is melted with four or five apples peeled, quar- 
tered, and cored ; also a little salt and a little sugar, about 
half a pint of water, or broth, boil gently till done, and 
serve as warm as possible. Generally, cabbages are better 
when prepared at least one day in advance^ and then 
warmed in a bain-marie before serving ; a little butter may be 
added while it is warming. Any kind of cabbage is pre- 
pared as directed in the above ways. 

Hed Cabbage in Salad, — Take a hard head of red cab- 
bage, and when all the outer leaves are removed, see if it 
is clean, but do not wash it ; if a cabbage is not clean, do 
not use it for salad (as you want a hard one, and a hard 
one is always clean when th/B outer leaves are taken off). 
Then cut it in four pieces, trim off the stump and coarse 
ends of the leaves ; cut it as thin as possible, as in making 
sour-krout, put it in a crockery vessel, with salt, vinega^ 
and pepper sprinkled on, cover and leave thus from four 
to six hours ; then throw away the water or vinegar, dress 
as another salad, with oil and vinegar, and serve. 

The same, stewed, — ^Blanch the cabbage for about ten 
minutes and drain it ; then put it in a saucepan with about 
an ounce of butter and stir for five minutes, when add a 
little salt, a little sugar, a gill of claret wine, and same of 
broth or water. Boil gently till done, and serve. 

Stuffed, — ^Remove the outer leaves of either a green, 
white, or red cabbage, see that it be clean, then put it in a 
bowl, and pour boiling water on it. Leave it so till the 
leaves are soft and pliable, when take off and drain. Cut 
off the stump carefully, place the cabbage on the table, 
the top upward, then open it gently by spreading the 
leaves all around without breaking them; then, com- 



VEaETABLES. 315 

mencing witli the centre leaves, put some sausage-meat 
between the leaves, finishing with the outer ones and 
raising them ; that is, bringing the cabbage to its original 

. shape as much as possible, and then tie it all around with 
twine. Put in a saucepan large enough to hold the cab- 
bage easily, but not too large, a little salt pork, cut in 
small dice, rind of salt pork and trimmings of butcher's- 
meat that you may have, but if none at all, put a little 
lean salt pork or bacon, and cut in dice also, half a carrot 
in slices, two onions in slices al§o, and then the cabbage 
on the whole. Half cover it with broth ; water may be 
used instead of broth, but it makes a very inferior dish, 
while with broth it is unquestionably an excellent one for 
those who like cabbages. Simmer for two or three hours, 
according to the size of the csfbbage. A piece of sausage 
may be^ placed on the cabbage also and cooked with it. 
Then dish the cabbage, remove the twine tying it; place 
the sausage around and also the salt pork if liked, strain 
the sauce on the whole, and serve warm. If the water or 
broth boils away while it is cooking, add more. 

Sour-krout, — Soak in cold water for some time, chang- 

. iBg the water three or four times ; then put it in a stewpan 
with a pound of bacon, two ounces of sausages, and two 
ounces of lard to every quart of sour-krout, salt, and pep- 
per ; wet with broth, or with water, boil from five to six 
hours, and serve with the bacon and sausages on it When 
cooked as above, but with water instead of broth, drain it 

*well, put the bacon and sausages away in a warm place; 
then put the sour-krout in a stewpan with about one pint 
of white wine to a quart of sour-krout, set it on the fire and. 
boil gently till the wine is nearly all absorbed or boiled 
away. Serve as above with the bacon and sausages on it. 
It is almost* always prepared with wine in many parts of 
G-ermany. 



316 VEGETABLES. 

Cardoons. — The white part only is good to eat. Clean 
well and scrape the sides ; cut in pieces two inches and a 
half in length, and throw them in boiling water with a lit- 
tle salt; boil them till their sliminess comes off easilj; 
then take from the fire, pour cold water in, and by means 
of a towel remove the sliminess; soak in cold water 
and drain them. Lay a few slices of bacon in a stewpan, 
place the -cardoons on them, and again lay slices of bacon 
on ; season with two onions, two sprigs of parsley, ohe of 
thyme, a bay-leaf, and a clove, salt, pepper, and the juice 
of half a lemon ; cover with water and set on a good fire; 
boil till cooked : take from the fire and drain the cardoona 
only, throwing away the seasonings. Put the cardoons 
back in the stewpan, in which you have left the bacon ; 
add two or tbree tablespoo'nfuls of broth, and two of Eb- 
pagnole sauce'; set on a slow fire, and simmer till the sancc 
is reduced to a proper thickness. Have at the same time 
in a pan on the fire a piece of ox-marrow, and when melted 
mix it with the sauce at the moment you take the car- 
doons from the fire, and serve hot either with or withont 
the bacon. 

Carrots — Tvow to clean and prepare them, — ^Trimoffall 
the small roots, wash them well, scrape them gently, taking 
care to scrape the skiu only ; then wash well, drain, and 
cut them either in slices a quarter of an inch thick, in fil- 
lets or strips, or with a vegetable spoon, according to 
fancy. 

To boil, — When prepared, put them in a saucepan 
with a little salt, more cold water than is necessary to 
cover them, set on the fire, boil gently till tender, and 
drain. It is impossible to tell how long it takes, as.it de- 
pends how young and tender they are. 

In Bechamel, — Clean, cut, and boil about a quart of 



p 



w 



VEGETABLES. ' 317 

carrots as directed and drain them. Mix well together in 
a saucepan, on the table, about two ounces of butter with 
a tablespoonful of flour, add about one pint of milk, set on 
the fire, stir slowly till it comes to a boil, when turn the 
carrots in, stir for about one minute, add also a little salt, 
same of sugar, two yolks of eggs ; stir and mix well, give 
one boil, and serve warm. 

A la Creme^ or with Cream, — ^Proceed as for a Becha- 
mel in every particular except that you use cream instead 
of milk. 

In Poulette, — Proceed as in Bechamel with the excep- 
tion that you use broth instead of milk, and add a little 
pai-sley, chopped fine,^ just before serving. 

Fines Herhes, — Clean, cut, and boil as directed, about 
a quart. of carrots. Set a saucepan on the fire with two 
ounces of butter in it, and when melted fry in it a piece 
of onion chopped fine. When the onion is fried add a 
pint of broth or water ; boil about five minutes, put the 
carrots in with a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, give one 
boil, take from the fire, add a few drops of lemon-juice, 
and serve aa warm as possible, with salt to tasfe. 

An jus. — ^Proceed as for fines herhes, except that you 
do not use onions, and put half a pint of broth or gravy. 

Glmed. — Clean, cut with a vegetable spoon, and boil 
as directed, about a quart of carrots, and drain them. 
Put three ounces of butter in a frying-pan and set it on 
the fire. As soon as the butter is melted turn the carrots 
in, toss gently for five or six minutes, then add a little 
over a gill of rich gravy, sugar to taste, toss again now 
and then till the gravy is half boiled away, and use. 
Glazed carrots are seldom served alone, but most generally 
used as garnishing around a piece of meat. 

Stewed. — Clean, and cut carrots in slices, and then 



318 VEGETABLES. 

blanch them for about five minutes, and drain them. Set 
a stewpan on the fire with about two ounces of butter in 
it ; as soon as melted put the carrots in with salt^ pep- 
per, a pinch of sugar, half a pint of broth; boil gently 
till cooked, ta^ke from the fire, add and mix Vith the caf- 
rots a little chopped parsley, and serve warm. 

. With Sugar, — Clean and slice about a quart of ca^ 
rots, and blanch them for ^y^ minutes, and then drain 
them. Put two ounces of butter in a stewpan, and set it 
on a good fire, and when melted lay Ibhe carrots in with 
salt, pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and about half a 
pint of broth ; sprinkle in it, while stirring with a wooden 
spoon, about a teaspoonfiil of flour, and boU gently till 
cooked. Take from the fire, mix a good tablespoonfol of 
sugar with two yolks of eggs, and those again with the 
rest, and serve. 

Cauliflowers and Broccoli — how to prepaire and cook 
them in water, — Clean and wash them well, throw into boil- 
ing water with a little salt and a little flour, boil till cooked, 
and drain them. 

How to serve with (fheese, — Put them on a crockery 
dish when prepared ; pour on a white sauce, in which 
you have mixed a little grated' cheese ; then dust the whole 
with fine bread-crumbs ; after which you take a soft brash 
or a feather, which you dip in lukewarm butter, and put 
a thin coat of it all over the cauliflowers ; then place the 
dish in a quick oven for ten minutes, and serve as they 
are, i. e., in the dish in which they have been cooked. 
This is also called au gratin. 

In Bechamel, — Boil the cauliflowers till done to yonr. 
taste, drain immediately and place them on the dish, the 
top upward. While it is boiling make a BecJvamel sauce 
and turn it oyer the cauliflowers as soon as dished, and 



^ 



VEGETABLES. 319 

serire as wann as possible. Cauliflower, like asparagus, 
has a better taste when rather underdone; it is more 
crisp. 

Au Beurre Noir {with Brown Butter), — ^Wh en boiled, 
drained, and dished, turn a brown butter over, them, and 
serve warm. 

With a Cream- Sauce, — Clean, prepare, boil, and drain 
the cauliflowers as directed above, then dish them also with 
the top upward. While they, are boiling, make a cream- 
sauce and turn it over the cauliflowers as soon as they are 
dished, and serve warm. As they must be served warm, 
if the sauce is ready before the cauliflowers are cooked, 
keep it in a bain-marie ; if the cauliflowers are cooked be- 
fore the sauce is ready, keep them in a warm place. 

With a White Sauce, — ^Proceed as with a cream-sauce 
in every particular, turning a white instead of a cream- 
sauce over them ; serve warm. . 

Fried, — Clean, prepare, and boil them for about five 
minutes, that is, till they are about half cooked ; then dip 
them in batter for frying vegetables, and fry them in hot 
fat. Take them off with a skimmer, turn them into a 
colander, sprinkle salt all over, and serve as hot as pos- 
sible. They are excellent fried, but they must not be al- 
lowed to cool. 

With a Tomafo-Sauce, — Commence by making a to- 
mato-fiauce, as it requires longer than preparing the cauli- 
flowers. When the sauce is nearly made, boil the cauli- 
flowet as directed, dish it, and then turn the sauce over 
it, and serve warm. 

Au ju8y or stewed, — ^Prepare, Ijpil the cauliflowers till 
half done, and drain them. Place them carefullv in a stew- 
pan, the top upward, and set on the fire with a little fat. 
The fire must be rather slow. Stir gently and very carefully 



320 



VEGETABLES. 



in order not to break ttem, and, about five minutes after 
they are on the fire, add half a gill of broth for a middling- 
sized cauliflower, salt, and pepper ; simmer till done, sti^ 
ring now and then during the process ; dish them, tnm 
the sauce all over, and serve warm. 

In Salad, — ^When boiled and drained, leave them in 
the colander till perfectly cold, then put them in the salad- 
dish with sail, pepper, vinegar, and oil, move carefnlly in 
order not to break it, and serve. A salad of cauliflowers 
is not served as a salad of greens, but as an entremet, like 
other vegetables, and as if prepared in any other way. 
It is an excellent dish for breakfast. 

Celery — stewed, — Cut oflF the green part or top of 
about half a dozen heads of celery ; cleanse and trim 
them, but leave them whole. Set a saucepan of cold 
water and a little salt on the fire, and at the first boil drop 
the heads of celery in, boil till tender and drain. Pat the 
celery back in the pan with about half a pint of broth ; 
boil gently about five minut(Js, when add two or three 
tablespoonfuls of good meat-gravy, a teaspoonfiil of 
meuniefe, salt to taste, give one boil, and serve warm. 

Fried, — Cut the celery in pieces about two inches 
long, wash, drain, and wipe dry. Dip them in batter for 
filing vegetables, drop in hot fat, and turn them into a 
colander when fried ; sprinkle salt over, and serve hot 
Soup or turnip-rooted celery, after being cleaned and prop- 
erly scraped, is prepared like table celery as above, either 
stewed or fried. 

Chiccory, — Chiccory, or succory, or endive, is gene^ 
ally prepared as a salad, if it be that with the broad loives, 
or the curled endive. 

Stewed, — Clean, wash, and drain it. Blanch it for 
about one minute, and drain again. Then put it in a 



VEGETABLES. 321 

stewpan with a little broth, and simmer till cooked ; then 
add a little gravy, salt and pepper to taste, and serve. It 
makes a good entremel. The wild chiccory is prepared in 
the same way. 

With Milk, — ^Remove the outer leaves and see that 
it Is perfectly clean, cut in two or** four, wash well in 
several waters, and*"throw into boiling water with a little 
salt ; boil half an hour, take it out^ throw into cold water, 
leave two minutes, and drain ; press on it the drainer so 
as to extract all the water from it, after which chop it fine. 
Put about two ounces of butter in a stcwpan; when 
melted, -sprinkle in it a teaspoonful of flour, also salt and 
pepper ; then put the endive in, say three or four heads, 
stir with a wooden spoon for ten minutes, after which time 
you beat two eggs with. milk, and put them in the stew- 
pan ; keep stirring fifteen minutes longer, and serve. 

Com — sweet — The simplest and best way is to boil 
it, and then eat it with butter, salt, and pepper. When 
boiled with any meat-soup, or with pot-au-feu^ it is deli- 
cious to eat, and gives a good taste to the broth ; it is 
also eaten with butter, salt, and pepper, as above. 

Stewed, — ^Shell it and then drop it in boiling water 
and a little salt, boil till nearly done ;• then drain and put 
it back on the fire with a little broth ; boil gently for 
about ten minutes, add a little gravy, salt and pepper to 
taste, and serve warm. 

In Succotash, — ^This popular Indian dish, is very sim- 
ply made by boiling corn and green Lima beans together, 
with salt and pepper. The two can be prepared together 
as stewed corn, but it makes a very inferior dish. 

CtLcumhera, — ^Peel them, split them in four, take the 
seeds out, cut in pieces about one inch long, throw them 
into boiling water, with a little salt ; boil till cooked, drain, 
1-i* 



322 VEGETABLES, 

and put them on a towel so as to dry them well ; then put 
butter in a frying-pan, and set it on a good fire ; when 
hot, put in it some chopped parsley, salt, and pepper, two 
minutes after put the cucumbers in it, fry a few minutes, 
tossing them now and then, and serve. 

The same, stewed.-^-Co6k in boiling water, and dry 
them as above ; then put them in a%tewpan with a little 
butter kneaded with flour, add salt, pepper, and a pincli 
of grated nutmeg ; moisten with broth, simmer to reduce 
the sauce ; take from the fire, mix the yolks of two eggs 
in the sauce ; add to it a few drops of vinegar, and serve 
them. 

Siufed, — Soak a piece of bread in cold water and 
then squeeze the water out of it, the size to be according to 
how many cucumbers are to be Stuffed, or how large they 
are. Split liarge cucumbers in two, lengthwise, remove 
the seeds and some of the fleshy parts inside, by means 
of a small iron spoon. Put a little butter in a saucepan . 
on the fire, and when melted fry in it a piece of chopped 
onion. When the onion is fried, put in the pan what 
you have removed from the inside of the cucumbers, and 
which you have chopped a little, stir for about five min- 
utes, and then add> the soaked bread, stir and.'miz well 
with the rest ; add also salt, pepper, a little grated nutr 
meg and a little gravy ; stir again for about one minute, 
take from the fire ; fill the cucumbers, that is, each half 
with the mixture ; place them in a pan, the mixture up- 
ward ; dust with bread-crumbs, put a little butter on the 
top of each, and bake. Before serving, a little gravy may 
be sprinkled all over ; serve warm. 

In JETors-cToeuvre, — Peel the cucumbers, cut them in 
slices slantwise, and ^alt them for two or three houri 
Drain them, and then season with oil, vinegar, pepper, 
and parsley chopped fine. 






VEGETABLES. 323 

Pickled cucumbers are served whole with small onions, 
also picHed, as a hors-d'ceuvre. 

I>andeli(m, — ^Dandelion is a very healthy greens in the 
spring, either cooked or raw. Clean and waA.them well 
several times, as it nearly, always contains fine sand be- 
tween the leaves ; leave them in cold water about two 
hours, and drain them ; throw them into^ boiling water and . 
salt ; boil twenty minutes if young, and thirty minutes if 
full grown ; then put them in a colander, press on them 
so as to extract all the water, after which chop them fine ; 
put about two ounces of butter in a stewpan, for two 
quarts,, and set it on a quick fire ; when melted, sprinkle in 
it a teaspoonfal of flour, salt and pepper, then put the dan- 
delion in, stir for ten minutes, after which .wet it with 
broth ; keep stirring for about fifteen, minutes longer, and 
serve. 

Hgg-Plant — broiled, — Split the egg-plant in two 
lengthwise, peel it and remove the seed. Put it in a 
crockery vessel and sprinkle salt on it ; leave it thus near- 
ly an hour, then take it ofl", dip it in %^ beaten with salt, 
pepper, and. chopped parsley, then boil it ; serve with a 
maitre d'hdtel sauce. 

Fried. — Peel and cut in slices, lay the slices in a ves- 
sel, sprinkling salt over every layer, and leave thus half 
an hour and drain. Dip the slices in batter for fi*ying 
vegetables, drop them in hot fat, and turn them into a 
colander when fried ; sprinkle salt all over, and serve. 

Saute, — Put the slices with salt half an hour in a . 
vessel as directed in the above. Drain them, and then 
fry them on both sides with a little butter in a frying-pan. 
Serve warm, with salt and pepper to taste. 

Stuffed, — Proceed as for stuffed cucumbers in every 
^particular. 



y 



324 'YEaETABLES. 

Hominy, — Hominy is prepared in different ways; 
some make it in cakes, others like mush. The following 
is, however, the general way of preparing it : boil it for 
about threeTiours with water or milk, also butter, salt, and 
pepper ; then mix with it some well-beaten eggs, fry or 
broil, or even cook it in an oven, and serve for breakfast 

Leeks.' — Clean,- wash, and drain ; throw them in boil- 
ing water with a little salt, boil fifteen minutes, and drain ; 
press on them in the drainer, so as to extract all the water, 
then chop them fine. Put two ounces of butter in a stew- 
pan ; when melted, sprinkle in it a teaspoonfiil of flour, 
salt, and pepper, then add the leeks. Stir with a wooden 
spoon for ten minutes ; after that beat two eggs with milk, 
and put them in a stewpan ; keep stirring fifteen minutes 
longer, and serve. 

Lentils. — This excellent vegetable, much superior to 
beans or peas, is not generally known. Most of what we 
have here comes fi'om Germany ; a little comes from France 
and Switzerland. Many persons think them much dearer 
than beans or peas, not knowing that they swell three 
or four times their size when soaked in water before cook- 
ing them. They are prepared like dry beans in eveiy 
way. A purie of lentils is excellent with almost every 
kind of meat, and it also makes a good potage. It has aD 
the nutritive qualities of the bean. ^ " "^ 

Lettuce. — Cos lettuce, cabbage lettuce, butter lettuce, 
curled Silesia, white or green lettuce, etc. Besides being 
served as salad, all the above, when properly dressed, 
make an excellent entremet. 

To prepare, — Take off the outer leaves, that is, all 
those that are too green or too hard, then clean and 
wash well, but without cutting it off, or without detach-^ 
ing the leaves. To stew lettuce, select hard heads, so that 






YEaETABLES. 325 

they can be cleansed without detaching the leaves. When 
cleaned, drop the heads in boiling water and a little salt, 
boil about five or ten minutes, according to how tender 
the lettuce is, and drain dry. 

Stewed, — When cleaned and prepared, sprinkle on the 
top of each, salt, pepper, and a. little grated nutmeg; then 
tie each head with a string. Place in a stewpan two or 
three slices of bacon, put the heads of lettuce in, season 
with two sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, a bay-leaf, and 
a clove, also salt and pepper ; cover with water, and sim- 
mer about two hours in an oven ; then take them from 
the pan, drain, pressing on them to extract all the water, 
and put them on a dish, the top upward. Have butter in 
a stewpan, and on a good fire ; when melted, sprinkle in 
it a teaspoonful of flour, stirring with a wooden spoon ; 
subdue the fire, add a little milk, and stir and simmer ten 
minutes longer ; take from the fire, mix in the beaten yolks 
of two eggs, pour it on the lettuce, which you have kept 
wj^rm, and serve. 

Another mjay. — ^When prepared, chop it fine. Put in 
a stewpan, for four heads of lettuce, three ounces of but- 
ter, and set it on the fire ; when melted, put the lettuce 
in with a little chopped chervil, stir now and then till 
cooked ; then sprinkle in it a pinch of fiour, wet with 
broth, boil ten minutes longer, keeping.it stirred, and 
serve. (For a salad of lettuce, see Salad.) 

Stuffed, — Proceed as for a stuffed cabbage. 

Mushrooms-, — Preserved mushrooms are used for 
sauces only. The first thing to consider very attentively 
in mushrooms is, not to eat any that you do not know to 
be good to eat. There are so many kinds of good and 
bad ones, that it is necessary to be very careful about even 
the edible ones, o^^the ones known as such when young ; 



326 VEGETABLES. 

it is better and safer never to use them when old ; they 
are considered old when the comb underneath is black be- 
fore picking, while when young it is of a pink color. 

How to clean and prepare them, — Cut off the lower 
part of the stem ; skin them with a steel knife, commen- 
cing at the edge and finishing at the top ; cut in pieces, 
put them in cold water, to which you have added a few 
drops' of vinegar ; leave them in it two hours, moTing 
them occasionally ; then wash well in two or three wateis, 
and drain. 

When cleaned and prepared thus, they are ready to 
be used in sauces, or to cook. 

Broiled, — If you have large mushrooms, clean and 
prepare as above, except that you do not cut them ; bat 
when drained, put them upside down on a greased grid- 
iron, and on a moderate fire ; place a little butter around 
the stem upon the comb, and when done place them on 
a dish which you have warmed in advance, and in the 
same position they had on the gridiron ; put again around 
the stem some butter kneaded with a little dhopped pars- 
ley, salt, and pepper, and serve. They must be served 
warm. 

As an ornament, you may make, with common white 
note-paper, as many little square boxes as you have mush- 
rooms to broil ; grease them with butter, put the musL- 
rooms in, set them on the gridiron, and on a moderate 
fire, and servo them in the boxes when done. 

The same, stewed, — When cleaned and prepared as 
directed, and drained, throw a quart of them in boiling 
water, to which you have added a few drops of vinegar; 
boil five minutes, take them out, put them in cold water 
to cool, drain and dry them in a towel. Put two ounces 
of butter'in.a stewpan and set it oj^agood fii-e; when 



VEGETABLES. 327 

melted, sprinkle in it a pinch of flour, add also a sprig of 
parsley, two small onions, a little piece of carrot, a bay- 
leaf, salt, and pepper, cover with broth, and boil till the 
onions are cooked ; then take from the pan onions, pars- 
ley, and bay-leaf, and pat the mushrooms in instead ; boil 
slowly about twenty minutes, take from the fire, add to 
the sauce the yolks of two eggs well beaten with a few 
drops of vinegar, and serve warm. 

Mushroom Catsup, — Clean and wash them well, stems 
and all ; cut them in two or four pieces ; then place the 
pieces in a crockery vessel, sprintling salt on every layer 
of mushrooms, and leave thus twenty-four hours. Take 
them out and press them well, so as to take all the juice 
out, which you bottle at once, and cork. Put the mush- 
rooms back in the vessel, and "twenty-four hours after press 
tbem again ; and again put the juice in bottles, and the 
mushrooms in the vessel, and repeat this process agaiif 
after another twenty-four hours. Then mix well together 
the juice of the three pressings ; add to it pepper, allspice, 
one clove (or more, according to the quantity) broken in 
pieces ; boil the whole, skim off the scum as long as you 
see any on the surface, and strain. Bottle when cool ; 
put in each bottle two cloves and a pepper-corn, cork air- 
tight, put in a cool and dry place, and it wiU keep for 
years. 

Dried, — ^Dried mushrooms are imported from Italy, 
they come cheaper than the preserved ones in cans, and 
are as good for brown sauces. Soak them in water over 
night ; drain them, and they are ready for use. 

Onions h la Creme. — (With Gream.) — Only Small 
white onions are prepared h la creme. Have water and a 
Uttle salt on the fire, and drop two dozen small white 
onions into it at* the first boil. When cooked, drain. 



328 



YEaEfABLEB. 



and wipe them dry carefully, in order not to bruise them. 
Set a saucepan on the fire with about two ounces of butter 
in it, and when melted put the onions in, stirring gently 
for two or three minutes, then turn about a gill of cream 
in, little by little, stirring the while, and as soon as tlie 
whole is in take from the fire, salt to taste, and serve hot 
Glazed. — ^Peel a dozen of middling-sized onions and 
put them in a saucepan with four ounces of butter, and set 
them on a slow fire; stir occasionally till they are about 
three-quarters done, when add about two ounces of pow- 
dered sugar, stir now and then and finish the cooldiig. 
When done and well browned all around, add one or two 
tablespoon fuls of good meat-gravy, keep a few minutes on 
a rather brisk fire in order to reduce the sauce, but keep 
stirring and use. Onions prepared that way are excellent, 
and generally used to decorate meat. 

Stewed. — Clean a quart of small onions, throw them 
in boiling water, add two sprigs of parsley-, one of thyme, 
a clove, a bay-leaf, a little piece of nutmeg, a clove of gar- 
lic, salt, and pepper ; boil twenty minutes, drain the onions 
only, and throw away the seasonings. Put two ounces of 
butter in a stewpan on a good fire, and when melted 
sprinkle in it a teaspoonful of flour ; then add the onions, 
cover with half broth and half white wine, boil gently till 
well cooked and the sauce reduced, serve warm. It is » 
very wholesome dish. 

Parsnips. — Sauties. — Scrape, wash, drain, and put abont 
two quarts of parsnips in a saucepan with cold water and 
a little salt, set on the fire and boil till done, then drain. 
Cut the parsnips in -slices, put two ounces of butter in a 
frying-pan, and when melted put the sliced turnips in, toss 
gently till they are of a fine golden color, then add salt 
and pepper to taste, turn over a dish, sprinkle chopped 
parsley all over, and serve warm. 



VEGETABLES. 329 

Stewed. — Scrape, clean, wash, boil, and drain as above 
directed, about two quarts of parsnips. Put tbem imme- 
diately into a stewpan with salt, pepper, and broth enough 
to about half cover them, boil gently for fifteen minutes, 
and serve the whole as it is. They may also be prepared 
in poulette, the same as turnips. 

Feas with Bacon, — ^Put in a stewpan on the fire four 
ounces of bacon cut in dice (for one quart of peas), and 
toss and fry it for about five minutes, then add the peas 
after having blanched them from five to ten minutes, ac- 
cording to how tender they are ; stir for two minutes and 
add half a pint of broth or water, also a bunch of season- 
ings composed of two or three sprigs of parsley, half a one 
of thyme, and a piece of bay-leaf; stir again and mix, and 
then add also two or three small onions, salt, and pepper; 
boil half an hour, remove the seasonings, and seirve peas 
and salt pork. A ^mall sausage may be added for those 
who like the taste of it. 

Plain boiled. — Put a saucepan on the fire with water 
and salt in it, and at the first boil drop two quarts of 
peas in it; boil gently till done, and then drain. As 
soon as they are in the colander, just toss them a little, 
turn them over a dish, and put four ounces of butter oi^the 
top, salt, and pepper, then place the dish in the oven with 
the door open, that is, just to keep them warm and allow 
the butter to melt^ stir for one or two minutes, and serve 
warm. • 

With Lettuce. — ^Blanch a qtiart of peas for about five 
minutes, and drain them. Blanch a head of lettuce for one 
minute. Put peas and lettuce in a saucepan with one 
ounce of butter, stir gently on the fire for about one min- 
ute, and then add a little broth or water, two or three sprigs 
of parsley, salt, and pepper; boil slowly till done, and 



330 VEGETABLES. 

serve warm. The parsley may be served, or removed just 
before serving, according to taste. The lettuce is always 
served with the peas. • 

AujuB, — ^Boil the peas as directed for plain boUedy 
then put them back on the fire with a little butter, stir for 
one minute, add about three tablespoonftils of gravy to a 
quart of peas, salt and pepper, give one boil, and serve. 

With Ham. — Blanch two quarts of peas and drain 
them. Put them in a saucepan with half a pound of ham, 
cut in dice, half cover them with water, and boil gently 
till done. . K the water boils away, add a little more ; serve 
warm. 

Canned peas are prepared in the same way as above. 

A VAnglaise, — If the peas are fresh, blanch them ; if 
they are .preserved, drain them onjy. Put the peas in a 
saucepan with about one ounce of butter for a pint, set on 
the fire, stir gently till thoroughly \^rm, add chopped 
parsley and a yolk of egg, and serve. 

Au SiLcre (with 'Sugar). — Set the peas on, the fire, the 
same as above, add about one ounce of sugar, stir also till 
warm ; take from the fire, stir a yolk of egg in, and serve. 

Dry Peas and Split Peas. — ^Dry and split peas arc 
prepared and served in the same and every way like dry 
beans, with the exception that they require to be soaked 
only for a few hours before cooking them. 

Potatoes. — To select — ^As a general rule, the smaller 
the eye the better the potatoes. By cutting off a piece 
from the larger end you ascertain if they are sound ; they 
must be white, reddish, bluish, etc., according to the 
species. If spotted, they are not sound, and therefore 
very inferior. There are several kinds, and all of thera 
are good when sound or coming from a proper soil. Use 
the kind you prefer, or those that are better .fit for the way 



wm 



mmtm 



VEGETABLES. 331 

they are intended to be served. To mash or to make a 
puree, etc., every kind is good. To serve whole or in 
dice, or in pieces like carpels of oranges, those called 
Mercers and the like, are preferable, because they do not 
braise so easily. 

To boil. — Being naturally watery, potatoes should never 
be cooked by boiling except when wanted very white, as 
for croquettes. When boiled whole, put them of an even 
size as much as possible, in order to cook them evenly. 
They are better, more mealy, when steamed or baked, but 
those who have no steamer must, of course, boil them. 
Cover theni with cold water, set on the fire and boil till 
done, then pour off all the water, put the pan back on a 
slow fire for five minutes and well covered; then use the 
potatoes. 

To steam. — ^Place them above a kettle of boiling water, 
in a kind of drainer made for that purpose, and adapted 
to the kettle. The drainer must be covered tight. They 
cook as fast as by boiling, the degree of heat being the 
same. When steamed the skin is very easily removed. 

To prepare. — ^If they are to be boiled, or steamed, or 
baked, it is only necessary to wash them. If wanted 
peeled, as for frying, etc., then commence by cutting off 
the germs or eyes ; if young and tender, take the skin off 
with a scrubbing-brush and drop immediately in cold 
wat^r to keep them white ; if old, scrape the skin off witt 
a knife, for the part immediately under the skin con- 
tains more nutriment than the middle, and drop in cold 
water also. If Tjanted cut, either in dice, or like carpels 
of oranges, or any other way, cut them* above a bowl of 
cold water, so that they drop into it, for if kept exposed 
to the air they turn reddish and lose their nutritive quali- 
ties. 



332 VEGEtABLES. 

A VAllemande. — Steam, peel, and slice the potatoes. 
Cut some bread in thin slices, and fry bread and potatoes 
with a little butter and turn the whole in a bowl, dust wefl 
with sugar, pour a little milk all over an^ bake for about 
fifteen minutes ; serve warm. 

A VAnglaise, — Steam or boil about a quart of potatoes 
and then peel and slice them. Put two ounces of butter 
in a frying-pan on the fire, and put the potatoes in when 
melted, toss them for about ten minutes, add salt, pepper, 
a little grated nutmeg, and serve hot. 

A la harigoule, — ^Peel some potatoes and cook them 
whole in broth ; when done take them oflf carefully, so as 
not to break or bruise them, and drain. Have some oil 
in a frying-pan and on a quick fire, and when hot lay the 
potatoes in ; move gently to fry them all around, and then 
dish them, sprinkling salt, pepper, and vinegar, all over; 
seiTc warm. 

Bechamel, — Steam or boil and peel some potatoes, 
then slice them and place on a dish ; have a Bwhamd 
sauce ready, turn it over the potatoes, and serve warm. 

Broiled, — Steam, peel and slice the potatoes. Lay the 
slice^s on a gridiron, and place it. over a rather slow fii«; 
have melted butter, and spread some over the slices of 
potatoes with a brush ; as soon as the under part is broiled, 
turn each slice over and spread butter over the other side. 
When done, dish, salt, and serve them hot. *A little butter 
may be added when dished, according to taste. 

A la Parisienne, — Chop an onion fine and partly fiy 
it with butter, then put in it some potatoes cut in dice, 
add a little water or broth, salt, and pepper ; boil gently 
till done, take from the fire, add chopped parsley, and 
serve. 

Fried, — ^To be fried, the potatoes are cut either with a 



VEGETABLES. 333 

vegetable spoon, in fillets, in slices, with a scalloped kpife, 
or with an ordinary one, or cut in pieces like carpels of 
oranges, or even in dice. When cut, drain and wipe them 
dry. This mast be done quicklj, so as not to allow the 
potatoes to turn reddish. Have a coarse towel ready, then 
turn the potatoes into a colander, and immediately turn 
them in the towel, shake them a' little, and quickly drop 
them in hot fat (See Frying.) When done, turn them 
into a colander, sprinkle salt on them, and serve hot. Bear 
in mind that fried potatoes must be eaten as hot as possi-. 
ble. Fry only one size at a time, as it takes three times 
as long to fry them when cut in pieces as when sHced or 
cut in fillets. 

To fry them lights or swelled. — ^When fried, turn into 
the colander, and have the fat over a brisk fire ; leave the 
potatoes in the colander only about half a minute, then put 
them back in the very hot fat,* stir for about one minute 
and put them again in the colander, salt them, and serve 
hot Tf the fat is very hot, when dropped into it for the 
second time they will certainly swell ; there is no other 
way known to do it. It is as easily done as it is simple. 
Potatoes cut in fillets and fried are sometimes called h la 
JParmenne ; when cut in slices or with a vegetable spoon, 
they are called a la franfaise. 

Potatoes cut with a vegetable spoon and fried, make a 
good as well as a sightly decoration for a dish of meat or 
of fish. They may be fried in oil also, but it is more 
expensive than in fat. They may be fried in butter also, 
but it is still more expensive than oil, and is not better than 
. fat ; no matter what kind of fat is used, be it lard, beef 
suet, or skimmings of sauces and gravy, it cannot be 
tasted. 
. Hollandaise, — Steam or boil the potatoes, and then 



334 VEGETABLES. 

peel and mash tbem. Season them with a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley, salt, and pepper, add also two tablespooii- 
fuls of gravy to a quart of potatoes, then make small balls 
about the size of a walnut, round or of an olive-shape, dip 
them in beaten egg, roll in bread-crumbs, and fry in hot 
fat. Serve hot. 

Another. — Proceed as for the above one in every par- 
ticular, except that you use milk or cream instead of broth, 
and sugar instead of salt and pepper. 

Lyonnaise, — Potatoes Lyonnaise are prepared accord- 
ing to taste, that is, as much onion as liked is used, either 
in slices or chopped. If you have not any cold potatoes, 
steam or boil some, let them cool, and peel and slice them. 
For about a quart of potatoes, put two ounces of butter 
in a frying-pan on • the fire, and when melted put as much 
onion as you please, either sliced or chopped, into the pan, 
and fry it till about half done, when add the potatoes and 
again two ounces of butter ; salt, pepper, and stir and toss 
gently till the potatoes are all fried of a fine, light-brown 
color. It may require more butter, as no vegetable ab- 
sorbs more than potatoes. It makes an excellent dish for 
those who do not object to the taste of the onion (the 
onion can be tasted, not being boiled or kept long enough 
on the fire to evaporate). Serve warm. Oil may be used 
iijstead of butter. 

Maitre cTHdteL-^^te&m or boil about a quart of pota- 
toes,' and then peel and cut them in slices. Put one ounce 
and a half of butter in a saucepan on the fire, and when 
melted add a small tablespoonful of flour ; stir, and when 
turning yellow add also about a quart of milk, salt to 
taste, give one boil and take from the fire. Then add the 
potatoes, put back on a slow fire, stir for ten minutes, mil 
in the whole a- teaspoonful of parsley chopped fine, also a 
yolk or two of eggs, and serve warm. 



V 



VEGETABLES. 335 

Another Maitre cPJffdiel. — ^Take two quarts of potatoes, 
prepare and cook them by steam, peel carefully, and cut 
them in thick slices ; place them on a dish and keep warm. 
Put four ounces of butter in a stewpan and set it on a slow 
fire ; add, when melted, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 
the juice of half a lemon, salt, pepper, and a pinch of all- 
« spice, stir ten minutes ; afterward, put for five minutes on 
. a quick fire, keep stirring, then pour on the potatoes, and 
serve. 

Masked. — ^Peel and quarter about three pints of pota- 
toes as directed ; put them in a saucepan with more water 
than is necessary to cover them, and a little salt ; set on 
the fire and boil gently till done, drain, put them back in 
the saucepan, mash them well and mix them with two 
ounces of butter, two yolks of eggs, salt, pepper, and milk 
enough to make • them of a proper thickness. Set on the 
fire for two or three minutes, stirring the while, and serve 
warm. "When on the dish, smooth them with the back of 
a knife or scallop them, according to fancy. 

Mashed and baked, — Put two ounces of butter in a 
stewpan and set it on the fire; when hot, add. a teaspoon- 
fill of parsley chopped fine, and a little salt ; five minutes 
after, put in it a quart of potatoes, prepared, cooked, peeled, 
•nd mashed, as directed ; then pour on the whole, little 
by little, stirring continually with a wooden spoon, a pint 
of good milk ; and when the whole is well mixed, and 
becoming rather thick, take from the fire, place on the dish, 
then set in a brisk oven for five minutes, and serve. 

Polonaise, — ^Wash well about two quarts of potatoes, 
put them in a saucepan and cover with cold water, season 
with salt, half a dozen whole peppers, a bay-leaf, a sprig 
of thyme, and two or three onions in slices; boil gen- 
tly till done, and drain. Peel the potatoes, cut them 



• » 



336 VEGETABLES. 

in two, dish and tnrn a caper sauce over them. Ser?e 
warm. ^ 

Provenfale. — ^Peel and quarter about three pints of 
potatoes as directed. Put in a saucepan about' a gill of 
oil with the potatoes, salt, pepper, a pinch of nutmeg, six 
sprigs of parsley, two cloves of garlic, and lialf the rind 
of a lemon; the three latter spices well chopped; set on 
a good fire, stir now and then till cooked, dish the whole, 
sprinkle the juice of one or two lemons on, and serve 
warm. 

Another way. — ^Put in a stewpan three tablespoonfbls 
of sweet-oil, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, two cloyes 
of garlic chopped very fine, a pinch of grated nutmeg, the 
juice of half a lepion, salt, and pepper ; set on a good 
fire, and when hot put in it a quart of potatoes prepared 
and cooked by steam, and cut in thick slices ; subdue the 
, fire, simmer about ten minutes, and serve. 

SautSes. — ^Take a quart of young and^tender potatoes, 
peel them with a brush, and cut in slices. Put two ounces 
of butter in a fi*ying-pan on a quick fire ; when hot, put 
the potatoes in, and fiy them till of a golden color ; place 
them on a dish without any butter, sprinkle chopped pars- 
ley and salt on, and serve. They may also be served with- 
out parsley, according to taste. • 

Soufflees, — Steam a quart of potatoes, then peel and 
mash them in a saucepan and mix an ounce of butter with 
them ; set on the fire, pour into it, little by little, stirring 
' the while, about half a pint t)f milk, stir a little longer 
after the milk is in and until they are turning rather thick ; 
dish the potatoes, smooth or scallop them with the back 
of a knife, and put them in a quick oven till of a prx)per 
color, and serve. 

Another way, — Steam three pints of potatoes and peel 



VEGETABLES. 337 

and mash them in a saucepan, then mix with them four 
ounces of butter, salt to taste, half a pint of milk, and 
eight yolks of eggs ; set on the "fire for two minutes, stir- 
ring the while, and take off. Beat six whites of eggs to 
a stiff froth, and mix them gently with the rest. Place 
the mixture on a dish, smooth with the back of a knife or 
scallop them, according to fancy, and put in a quick oven. 
As soon as the top gets a little dry, which will be in two 
or three minutes after being in the oven, take them off 
and quickly spread some melted butter all over, by means 
of a bmsh, and put back in the oven for two or three min- 
utes longer, when tako off again, spread butter over the 
same as the first time, etc. Repeat the same process two 
or three times, and serve warm. 

Stuffed, — Steam two or three potatoes and peel and 
mash them in a bowl, then chop fine a small greeu onion 
or two shallots with two ounces of fat salt pork and six or 
eight sprigs of parsley; mix the whole with the potatoes; 
add also and mix with the rest about two ounces of but- 
ter, and salt and pepper to taste. If the potatoes are not . 
'warm enough to melt the butter while mixing, it should 
be melted first. Clean and wash well six potatoes of an 
even size and split them in two lengthwise ; then with a 
small iron spoon renaove the middle part of each half, so 
as to leave only a thickness of about one-eighth of an 
inch. You have then a kind of shell, which you fill with 
the prepared mixture above, filling more than full, so that 
the top is convex, and which you ilmooth with the back 
of a knife. "Q^hen the twelve halves are thus prepared, 
butter the bottom of a bakepan, lay the potatoes in with 
the mixture upward, and put in a w^ann oven. Take from 
the oven when about half done, and spread some melted 

15 



338 • VEGETABLES. 

butter all over by means of a brush ; put back in the oven, 
fiuisb the baking, and serve warm. 

In Cakes. — Prepare and cook by steam a quart and a 
half of potatoes, peel and mash them ; mix with them the 
yolks of five eggs, half a lemon-rind grated, and four ounces 
of fine white sugar. Put four ounces of butter in a stew- 
pan and set it on the fire ; when melted, put the mixture 
in, stirring with a wooden spoon continually ; as soon as 
it is in the stewpan, add the whites of the five eggs^ weK 
beaten ; leave on the fire only the time necessary to mix 
the whole well together, and take off; when nearly cold, 
add, if handy, and while stirring, a few drops of orange- 
flower water ; it gives a very good flavor ; then put the 
whole in a tin mould greased a little with butter ; place in 
a quick oven for about thirty-five minutes, and serve. 

In Croquettes, — Peel, quarter, and boil about a qnart 
• of potatoes as directed. Mash them in a saucepan and 
mix them with four yolks of eggs, two ounces of butter, 
salt, and about half a gill of milk ; set on the fire, stir for 
about two minutes, take off*, spread on a dish and leafe 
thus for two or three hours, and even over night when for 
breakfast. When left over night, they may be rather too 
dry to work them ; then" mix with a few drops of milk No • 
matter how long they have been left on the dish, it is 
necessary to mix them, that is, to mix the top, which 
is the driest part, with the rest. Dust the paste-board 
slightly with bread-crumbs, put the potatoes on it, in parts 
of about a tablespoonful each ; then, with the hands and a 
knife, shape them according to fancy, either round, flat, or 
oval, etc. When shaped round they look like a piece of 
sausage about two inches and a half long. If wished flat, 
when shaped round, just flatten them a little with the 
blade of a knife. Then dip each part in beaten egg, roD 



■' ^'^ 



VEGETABLES. * 339 

• 

in bread-cnimbs, and fry in hot fat. {See FETiNa.) Take 
them of£ the fat when done, turn them into * a colander, 
and immediately dish, and serve them as warm as possible. 
Potato croquettes are sometimes called potato-balls. When 
the croquettes are shaped flat, they are also called ^^a la 
dttchesse.^^ 

Another Duchesse. — When the potatoes are ready to 
he spread on the dish to cool, put them in the pastry-bag 
and squeeze them out of it like lady's fingers, bake, and 
serve warm. It makes a sightly dish. 

In Matelote, — Prepare and cook a quart and a half of 
potatoes, and peel and cut them in thick slices. Put in a 
stewpan a piece of butter the size of an eggy and set it on 
the fire ; When melted, sprinkle in it a teaspoonful of flour, 
also the same of chopped parsley, salt, and pepper, then 
4he potatoes, wet with half a pint of claret wine, same of 
broth ; boil gently till the sauce is reduced, and serve. 

With Butter, or English Fashion, — Put water on the 
fire with considerable salt in it ; at the first boil, drop a 
quart of washed potatoes in and boilr till done, when take 
ofii peel, and put them whole in a saucepan, with butter, 
salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg ; set on a rather slow fire, 
stirring gently now and then till they have absorbed all 
the butter. Serve warm. They absorb a great deal of 
butter. 

With Ba^on or Salt Pork, — Peel and quarter about a 
quart of potatoes. Set a saucepan on the fire with about 
four ounces of fat salt pork cut in dice in it. When 
Med put the potatoes in. Season with a bunch of season- 
ings composed of two sprigs of parsley, one ofthynie, and 
a bay-leaf; salt and pepper to taste, and about half a pint 
of broth or watfcr. Boil gently till cooked, remove the 
bunch of seasonings ; skim off the fat if any, and serve 



340 TEaETABLEB. 

viana. It is served at breakfast, &s well as enlrentcU for 
dinner, • 

With Cream or Milk. — Peel and mash a quart of po- 
tatoes, when prepared and cooked. Put two ounces of 
butter in a stewpan and set it on a good fire; when 
melted, Bpriukle in it a teaspoonful of flour, same of chop- 
ped parsley, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and salt ; stir willi 
a wooden spooD fivo minutes ; then add the potatoes, and 
half a pint of milk or cream ; keep stirrii^ ten minutes 
longer, take from the fire, sprinkle in them half a tahle- , 
spoonful of sugar, and serve as warm as possible. 

With White Sauce. — Clean, wash, aod throw a quart 
of potatoes in boiling water, with a sprig of thyme, two 
onions, a bay-leuf, two sprigs of sweet basil, two cloves, 
salt, ana pepper; when cooked, take the potatoes out 
I carefully, peel and cut them in two, place them on a warm* 
dish, pour on them a white sauce, and serve warm. 

Sineel Potatoes. — They are prepared in the same and 
every way like the others above, 

J*umpUmajtd Sgtiashes. — Peel, take out the seed, cut 
in pieces, and throw them in boiling water with a little 
salt; drain when cooked and mash through a colander, 
put butter in a stewpan on the fire, when melted, add 
chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and the pumpkin or sqnash, 
and simmer ten minutes ; aher which pour in it hall a 
pint of mitk, little by little, stirring the while; leave ten 

ites longer on the fire, and take ofi'; mis well in it 

or three yolks of e^s, and serve warm. The quanlitj 

lilk, butter, eggs, etc., to be according to the qnaotitv 

Purslain. — Clean, wash woU, and drop it in boiling 
;r with a little salt, boil till cooked, Uike ofi" and draiu. 
butter in a Stewpan on the fire, and when melted 1st 



TEGETABLEB. 341 

the pnrglain io, stir a little and sprinkle on it, little bj 
little, a pinch of flour ; scaaon with salt, pepper, and chop- 
ped parsley, stir and Bimmcr about ten tuinutes, take from 
the fire, mix in it one or two beaten eggs, and serve. 
Purslain ia much more used in Europe than here ; there 
it ia cultivated as other vegetables, but it docs not grow 
as well as here. 

Hktibarb. — Scrape and cut it in pieces about one inch 
long, and then blanch it *for two minutes. Put it in a 
saucepan with two or three tablespoon fuls of cold water 
and set it on a rather sharp fire, toss or stir now and then 
till done, ivhen sweeten to taste, dish, let cool, and serve. 
Rhubarb is very wholesorae, and ought to be partaken of at 
least every other day. Wbtn prepared as above, it may 
bo used to make pies. 

Itadishes. — The cujs below are turnip-rooted red rad- 
ishes, cut with a small knife, put in cold water for about" 
an hour, aud served with butter, as a kors-d'auvre. Eo- 



move the outer leaves, leaving only four or five of the 
small centre ones, cut off tJio root close to the radish, and 
wash clean in cold water. Take the radish with the left 
hand holding it by the centre leaves, cut the skin from the 
top downward to near the leaves, in several parts, but 
without detaching it, and as seen in the cuts above; do 



342 



VEGETABLES. 



the same' carefdlly with the body of the radish, and it 
will look more like a rose than like a radish. After hav- 
ing prepared two or three, it will be comparatively easy. 
The centre leaves mnst be eaten, as well as the body of 
the radish ; they contain a substance that helps the di- 
gestion of the radish itself. 

Salsify, or Oyster-Plant — Scrape them, and throw 
one by one as they are scraped into cold water, with a few 
drops of vinegar ; when they are all scraped, move them 
a little, take out of the water, and throw them in boifing 
water with a little salt, boil till tender, and drain ; place 
them warm on a warm dish, and serve with brown butter, 
a maitre cThdtely or white sauce. 

Fried. — When boiled as above, drain them. Then 
dip each in batter for frying vegetables, drop them in hot 
fat, and take them off with a skimmer when done, turn 
into a colander, salt them, and serve hot 

In Bechamel. — While the salsify, is boiling as directed 
above, make a Bechamel sauce ; drain the salsify when 
done, and turn it into the Bechamel sauce as soon as the 
latter is finished ; keep on the fire for about two minutes, 
stirring the while, and serve warm. They are prepared 
and served in the same way with the following sauces : 
cream, poulette, and white, 

Skirret. — ^Prepare, cook, and serve in every way like 
parsnips. 

Sorrel. — Sorrel is found in a wild state nearly every- 
where; that is, where green plants vegetate. It is an 
excellent vegetable, good to eat all the year round, bnt 
especially in the spring and summer. It is very healtfafn], 
containing the pure oxalic acid as it is formed by Nature. 
Sorrel is the greatest neutralizer of acrid substances. A 
few leaves chewed, take away from the teeth that dis- 



VEGETABLES. 343 

agreeable feeling lefb after having eaten a tart apple or 
other tart, unripe fruit. Cultivated in a rich soil, the 
leaves grow nearly as large as those of the rhubarb. It 
is cut to the ground several times during the spring and 
summer. 

To boil. — Take a peck of sorrel, separate the stalk 
from the eatable part, by taking hold of it with one hand 
and tearing off the rest with the other, so that only the 
Rtalk and fibres attached to it wilLremain after the teaiing, 
and which you throw away. Wash it well, drain and set 
it on the fire in a saucepan with two tablespoonfuls of 
water; stir occasionally, and when nearly done, take ofi^ 
mash through a colander, and it is ready for use. 

Au jus, — Put a piece of butter the size of an egg in 
a saucepan, set it on the fire, and when melted, put the 
sorrel in after being boiled and mashed as above, stir half 
a minute, add a tablespoonful of flour ; stir another half 
minute, add also half a gill of gravy, same of broth, salt, 
stir two minutes, and serve. Hard-boiled eggs, split in 
four pieces, lengthwise, may be placed around the dish, if 
the sorrel is served as an entremets. 

To preserve for Winter Use, — ^Wh en boiled and mashed 
as above, put it in stone or glass jars ; when cold, turn 
melted butter or lard over it ; cover as tightly as possible 
with paper, and when perfectly cold, put away in a dark, 
dry, and rather cool place, and it will keep very well 
during the whole winter. The best time to preserve it is 
at the beginning of November, just before the cold weather 
sets in. 

Puree of, — When prepared as for au ju^^ but without 
gravy, it is a puree. 

Spinach — to boil, — When cleaned and washed, throw 
it in boiling water- at the first boiling, with a pmch of salt. 



f 



344 VEGETABLES. 

and boil till done. It will take from one to ten minutes to 
boil, according to how tender it is. Turn into a colander ; 
press on it to force the water out, put on the paste-board 
and chop it fine. 

Au jus, — When chopped, set the spinach on the fire 
in a saucepan with a little broth, two or three tablespoon- 
fuls for a small measure ; stir, add as much gravy, an ounce 
of butter, a teaspoonful of flour, salt, stir two minutes, and 
serve. . 

Au jus in Winter, — When prepared as above, put it 
away in a bowl in a cool place, for one day ; then set 
it back DTi the fire in a pan, add a little butter and 
a Httle broth, stir and just warm it, when put away 
again ; repeat this for four or five days in succession, and 
you certainly will have an excellent dish. Some hard- 
boiled eggs cut in four pieces, lengthwise, may be placef 
around the spinach when dished, also some croutons. 
Spinach is generally served on a flat dish, and scolloped 
all around with a knife. 

With Sugar. — ^Proceed as for spinach aujus in every 
particular, except that you put very little salt, and one or 
two teaspoonfuls of sugar, according to taste. Lady-fin- 
gers or pieces of sponge-cake may be placed all around 
the dish. 

A la (7rme.— ^Boil and chop the spinach as directed 
Set it on the fire in a saucepan, stir till perfectly dry, but 
not burnt ; add two ounces of butter, and stir again for fife 
or six minutes ; then add about two tablespoonfiils of cream 
to a small measure of spinach ; stir again five minutes, 
take from the fire ; add again one ounce of butter, stir tvo 
minutes, and serve with hard-boiled eggs or croutons^ or 
both. Milk may be. used instead of cream when the lat- 
ter cannot be had, but it is inferior in taste. 



VEGETABLES. 345 

With Anchovt/^—TToceed as - for the above, usiog a 
tablespoonful of essence of anchovy instead of cream. 

Spinach qu BeurrCj or a Vanglaise, — ^Boil and chop 
the spinach as directed. Put it in a saucepan with but- 
ter; set on the fire, stir till the butter is melted and 
mixed with the spinach, salt to taste, and serve. 

Sprouts, — Boil, prepare, and serve sprouts the same 
as spinach. 

Tomatoes are, like sorrel and rhubarb, very healthful. 

To blanch, — After they are washed, 'throw boiling 
water over them, and then take off and remove the skin. 

Stewed J to serve with Meat or Fish, — ^When blanched as 
above, put the tomatoes in a stewpan with butter, salt, and 
pepper, set on the fire and simmer for about forty-five 
minutes ; serve warm all around the fish or piece of meat. 
Tomatoes may be eaten raw, with or without salt ; in no 
matter what way they are partaken of, they are not 
yet known to have indisposed anybody. Although great 
quantities are consumed in this and other countries, still 
many more ought to be used; they are so easily pre- 
served, that every family ought to have a large provision 
of them for the winter and spring consumption. 

Stuffed, — Soak in cold water one-fourth of a ten-cent 
loaf of bread, etc. ; when perfectly soaked, squeeze it with 
tlfe hands. Take six tomatoes, as much of an even size as 
possible, cut the top off; that is, the side opposite the 
stem, and with a small spoon take out the inside and put 
it in a bowl, and then turn into a colander to let the 
liquid part run off. Put about an ounce of butter in a 
saucepan, and when melted add a small onion chopped ; 
stir, and when nearly fried add also the part of the tomar 
toes in the colander also chopped; stir half a minute; 
put in the soaked bread, stir and mix ; then salt, pepper, 

15* 



84:6 VEGBTTABLES. 

and grated nutmeg ; give one boil more, and take from 
the fire. Fill the tomatoes with this mixture, dust with 
bread-crumbs, put a piece of butter the size of a hazel-nut 
on each, and bate. Just before serving, wet with a little 
tomato-sauce, broth, or gravy. 

Turnips — to boil, — Clean, scrape, and wash well, then 
put them in a saucepan, either whole or in slices, or cut 
with a fruit-corer or with a vegetable spoon, add cold wa- 
tes enough to boil them in, a little salt, set on the fire aud 
boil gently till tender ; then take off, drain, drop in cold 
water, drain again, and use. 

In JBeckam€l,T— While the turnips are boiling as de- 
scribed above, make a Bechamel sauce and turn the tur- 
nips in as soon as made ; boil gently about two minutes, 
stirring the while, and serve warm. Do exactly the same 
with a cream or white sauce. 

Au jus, — ^Boil and drain them as directed above, then 
put them in a saucepan with a little gravy, set on the fire, 
stir now and then for about ten minutes, add a teaspoonful 
of meuniere, stir again for two or three minutes, and ser^e 
warm. 

With Sugar, — Cut with a fruit-corer or with a vegeta- 
ble spoon about a pint of turnips, and boil them till un- 
der done, then drain. Put the turnips in a saucepan with 
two or three tablespoonfuls of troth, set on a good fire, 
toss occasionally for about ten minutes, then add two or 
three tablespoonfuls of sugar, toss again now and then for 
ten minutes longer, and serve. It may take a little longer 
or less time than described above, according to the state 
of the turnips ; if young and very tender, keep on the 
fire five instead of ten minutes, and if old, it may take 
fifteen minutes. 

Glazed. — Cut the turnips with a vegetable spoon, boil 



VEGETABLES. 347 

them for five minutes, and drain them. Put half a gill 
of broth in a saucepan with about one pint of turnips and 
set on a good fire ; toss and stir now and then till done, 
and till the broth is all boiled away. If it boils away 
before the turnips are cooked, add more and finish the 
cooking. When done, sprinkle about three ounces of 
sugar on them, stir for about one minute, dish the turnips, 
dredge powdered sugar all over, put in the oven two min- 
utes, and serve. * ^ 

. Water-cress. — ^This contains much sulphur, and is the 
greatest anti-scorbutic known. Besides being eaten with 
salt or in salad, it may also be stewed in the following 
way : Take only the top and the leaves around the st^Ik; 
clean aijd wash it well ; throw it in boiling water with a 
little salt, and when cooked drain it well, so as to extract 
all the water from it. Put a piece of butter the size of an 
egg in a stewpan ; when melted, put the cress in, sprinkle 
on it a tablespoonful of flour (for three quarts) ; stir con- 
tinually with a spoon, boil ten minutes, then add salt, pep- 
per, a little grated nutmeg, and half a pint of broth ; boil 
ten minutes longer, and serve either alone, or with hard- 
boiled eggs on it ; cut the eggs in two or four pieces. 

Salads, — Salads are seasoned with oil, vinegar, salt, 
and peppej, and sometimes with mustard also. The best 
oil is that made of olives, but much is sold for olive-oil 
which contains more lard than oil. It is impossible to tell 
which is pure by the color. Pare olive-oil is of a palc- 
yellow-greenish color. It is very easy to tell the pure oil 
by tasting, but of course it is necessary to know the real 
taste of good oil. 

The Jbest vinegar is wine-vinegar,' with tarragon in it 
{yinaigre a Vestrag<m\ but it is expensive. Next to it is 
cider-vinegar. Beer makes good vinegar, but inferior to 



348 VEGETABLES. 

that made with cider. Pyrolignic vinegar is very un- 
healthy. No one can be too careful in selecting vinegiar. 
The superiority of the French mustard comes from the 
compounds used, and not from the way it is made, as 
thought by many. In the French mustard, besides vinaigre 
a Vestragon^ there is white wine, and more sweet-oil than 
in any other kind. A good deal of mustard is made here, 
and often sold as French, after being carefully labelled. 

^ Salad is made with every species of lettuce ; chicory, 
cultivated and wild ; cabbages, red and white ; cauliflowers, 
celery, dandelion, com-salad, purslain, water-cress^ etc. If 
it were possible to clean the salad by merely wiping the 
leaves with a towel, it would be better than washing ; but 
it must be washed if there is any earth or sand on it. The 
salad should be made by an experienced person, who can 
judge at a glance what quantity of salt, pepper, oil, and 
vinegar is necessary. The quantities cannot be given, as 
that depends on the quantity of salad. Chopped parsley 
and chives are served on a small plate at the same time 
with the salad, as many persons like those spices. 

Celery, — When the celery is washed^and cleaned, wipe 
it dry, cut the white or eatable part (the top ov green part 
is used for soup) in pieces about one inch long, put them 
m the salad-dish with salt, vinegar, and mustard, stir a 
little, leave thus about one hour, then add pepper and oil, 
move again, and serve. 

Lettuce, — ^Lettuce, and especially Cos or Roman let- 
tuce, must be handled very gingerly,, in order not to wilt 
the leaves while cleaning and washing. When the head 
of the lettuce, especially of Roman lettilce, is hard, it is 
not necessary to wash it at all, as when the outer leaves 
are taken off, the rest is perfectly clean. Never use the 
knife, but brea]^ the leaves ; put them in the salad-dish ; 



VEGETABLES. 349 

.spread all over the dish, according to taste and fancy, the 
blossoms and petals (not the leaves) of any or all of the 
following plants: burnet, "wUd chiccory, rose (any kind), 
pink, sage, lady's-slipper, marsh-mallow, nasturtium, peri- 
winkle. Thus decorated, the salad is put on the table at 
the setting of it, and made when the time for eating it 
comes. Of these decorative flowers, the handiest are the 
rose and pink, as at every season of the. year they are 
easily obtained. 'In spring and summer most of the otheas 
can also be had easily. 

The salad, thus decorated, is placed on the table at the 
same time with the soup. It is made while the roast-piece 
is carved or eaten ; the petals of flowers .or blossoms are 
• not removed, and, of course, are eaten with the lettuce. 
The salad is seasoned with salt, pepper, vinegar, and oil. 
The proportions are two tablespoonfuls of oil to one of 
vinegar for a salad for three, four, or nve persons. It is 
generally moved round in the dish, so as to impregnate 
every leaf with the seasoning. It is served immediately 
after the roast-piece. 

Cream may be used instead of oil. 

Turnip-rooted Celery {called also Soup Celery). — Clean, 
wash well, and scrape it carefully ; cut it in thin slices, 
place it in the salad-dish, sprinkle salt, pepper, vinegar, 
and mustard on it, mix well the whole together, and leave 
thus from four to six hours. Then throw away the vine- 
gar, or most of it ; add very little salt and vinegar, oil, and 
move well. Serve as above, that is, immediately after the 
roast-piece of the dinner. 

A salad with cabbage, chiccory, corn-salad, or any kind 
of greens, after being properly cleaned, washed, wiped 
dry, and cut in pieces if necessary, is made and served 
exactly like a salad of lettuce described above. 



\X 



350 VEGETABLES. 

Nasturtium, — ^This is said to be a Dative of Mexico ;. 
it makes a good salad in summer-time. Make and serve 
like a salad of lettuce. 

Chervil and Sorrel. — ^In Italy, Spain, and the south 
of France, they make salad with these two vegetables, 
half of each, prepared and served like lettuce. 

Some persons like a thick sauce with salad ; it is made 
thus : Put a hard-boiled yolk of egg in a bowl, mash it, 
and then mix* with it salt and a tablespoonful of vinegar; 
when these three are thoroughly mixed, add pepper and 
oil (about two tablespoonfuls of oil), little by little, stir- 
ring and mixing well the while ; turn the mixture over the 
salad, and move as directed above. The mixture may be 
prepared in the salad-dish, and the salad put in afterward. 

Mustard should never be used with lettuce ; it is too 
strong to be eaten with such tender vegetables. 

Of Salsify, — In the spring, when the top of the sal- 
sify has grown for one or two weeks only, and immedi- 
ately after the frost is^out of the ground, cut it off, split it 
in four, wash it well, drain it dry, and prepare as a salad 
of lettuce. The root is prepared as described for salsify, 
and is never made in salad. • 

Of Cucumber's, — Peel and slice them, then put them in 
a vessel, salt every layer, and leave thus in a cool place 
about one hour, drain them dry and then dress them with 
oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper; slices of onion may be 
added, if liked. 

Of Beans, — Boil the beans in water with a little salt^ 
drain them dry, and then dress them with parsley chopped 
fine, salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar. 

Of Beets, — ^Boil the beets in water only till done, and 
when cool, peel and slice them, and prepare them with 
pepper, salt, vinegar, and oil. The beets may be baked. 



VEGETABLES. 351 

Of Eggs, — Slice hard-boiled eggs, and dress thera witli 
chopped parsley, salt, pepper, vinegar, and oil 

Of Lentils. — ^Proceed as for beans in every particular. 

Of Onions. — ^Bake the onions, then peel and slice 
them, and dress them "with mustard, salt, pepper, vinegar, 
and oil. 

Of Tomatoes, — ^Wash, wipe dry, and slice the toma- 
toes ; slice also onions and mix with them, the quantity to 
be according to taste ; then season with salt, pepper, oil, 
and vinegar. 

Of Walnuts, — The European walnut only can be used, 
and as soon as good to eat ; that is, before the outer shell 
dries and opens. Break the nuts in two, take out the ker- 
nels with a pointed knife, and place them in a salad-dish, 
with some juice of grapes not yet ripe ; add salt and pep- 
per, leave thus two or three hours, moving now and then, 
and serve. The edible part will be found very good eaten 
that way. To persons who have never eaten any, it may 
appear a strange dish, but let them try it. 

Of Potatoes, — ^A potato-salad is the one that requires 
the most seasoningsy especially oil and vinegar. They are 
better served warm than cold, although many prefer them 
in the latter state. When steamed, peeled, an J sliced, put 
them in the salad-dish, with salt, pepper, vinegar, oil, and 
parsley, to taste. Mix the whole gently and well, and 
serve. If served very warm, butter may be used instead 
of oil. 

Another, — ^Add to the above a few anchovies, or slices 
of pickled cucumbers, or capers, or pickled beets. 

Another, — ^Add to the first some slices of truffles, pre- 
viously soaked in Madeira wine for ten hours, and also a 
little of the wine. 

Another, — Put a hard-boiled yolk of egg in the salad- 



852 VEGETABLES. 

dish, with two tahlespoonfnls of oil, and mix well so as 
to make a paste of them ; then add two anchovies, a piece 
of tnnny the size of a nntmeg, and half a dozen sprigs of 
chervil, the whole chopped fine; mix again with the rest; 
add also a chopped pickled cucumber, mustard to taste, 
vinegar, and then the slices of potatoes (warm or cold), 
slices of truffles previously soaked in Madeira wine, a little 
of the wIdc also, salt, and pepper; stir and mix again well, 
and serve. 

Apricots, Oranges, Peaches, Pears, Strawberries, Hasp- 
berries, Blackberries, Currants, and like Perries, in Salad, 
— Dust the bottom of a dish with white sugar, put a layer 
of slices of apricots, oranges, peaches, or pears, or a layer 
of the others entire, and dust again ; repeat the same till 
the whole is in, then add over the whole a pinch of grated 
nutmeg, with French brandy or rum to suit your taste, and 
serve as a dessert. 

Cocoa-nut, — Peel it carefully and soak it in brandy for 
twenty-four hours. A little sugar may be added ; serve 
as a dessert. 

Salad Macedoine, — This salad ought to be called 
" compound salad," as it- is made of a little of every thing 
that can b^ served in salad, i, e,, fish, meat, green ^d dry 
vegetables, &c. When the whole is mixed, you add 
chopped parsley, sweet-oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper; you 
shake it till your arms are sore, and you have a salad Mace- 
doine, Every one should try it ; serve as an entremets. 

Salmon and Turbot, — Cut in slices, place them in a 
salad-dish, with hard-boiled eggs cut in two, or with some 
lettuce, and serve as a hors-d^ceuvre, with salt, pepper, oil, 
and vinegar. 

Of Pineapple, — Proceed as for that of apricots, etc, 
in every particular. 



VEGETABLES. 363 

Of Anchovy. — Clean and bone the anchovies, and then 
place them in the middle of a dish ; chop fine some hard- 
boiled yolks of eggs and put a string of it around the an- 
chovies; do the same with the whites, and then put a 
string of chopped parsley around the whites ; season with 
oil and very little vinegar. Serve as a hors-d'oeuvre. 

Pickles and Preserves. — To piclde the fruit, it must be 
picMed before commencing to ripen, and be sound ; the 
same for vegetables. When the fruit or vegetable is clean, 
and cut in pieces, if necessary, such as cabbage, have water 
on the fire, and drop it in at the first boil. If the fruit or 
vegetable is desired -white, add to the water lemon or un- 
ripe grape juice. It is necessary to be very careful in 
blanching, for, if too mucb blanched or cooked, it will be 
soft and tasteless ; if not enough, it will ferment. As a 
general rule, it is cooked as soon as it floats, but it can be 
ascertained by running a skewer or a small knife through 
it. By putting some fresh spinach-leaves or fresh grape- 
vine-leaves on the top of the fruit or vegetable, it will keep 
it more green than without.- "When blanched, take from 
the fire and drain. Drop it immediately in cold water, 
and drain again. When dry, put the fruit or vegetable 
in jaiB, cover it with boiling vioegar; season with pep- 
pers, pepper-corns, cloves, and tarragon, also some rock- 
salt. When perfectly cold, seal the jars air-tight, and keep 
in a dark, cool, and dry closet. Every kind of fruit or 
vegetables can be pickled in the same way ; the only dif- 
ference is in the time of blanching or cooking, which is ac- 
cording to the nature of the fruit : apples^ string-^eans, 
beets, cabbages, cauliflowers, cherries, cucumbers, lemons, 
melons, mushrooms, onions, peaches^ pears, plums, pump- 
kins, quinces, radishes, walnuts, etc., may also be preserved 
in salt and water, And in the following way : When cooked 



354 VEGETABLES. 

as above, put tliem in jars and cover tbem with very salt 
water. Seal when cool, and then put the jars in a boiler 
full of cold water, with straw or rags to prevent breaking 
them ; set on the fire, boil from twenty to thirty minutes, 
take from the fire, let cool ; then take the jars from the 
water and put away as the abpYe. 

Peas and mushrooms are ahnost always preserved in 
water and salt. 

Asparagus is also preserved, but it is so difficult to 
succeed, that even manufacturers of preserves have given 
it up. • . 

Tomatoes, — ^Wash them and then bruise them in a 
boiler ; set on the fire, boil half an hour, and strain, to se- 
cure all the juice. Put the juice on the fire, boil till reduced 
about one-half, let cool, put in jars, seal them, put them in a 
boiler of cold water, with straw or rags to prevent break- 
age ; set the boiler on the fire, boil twenty minutes, take 
off, let cool. When perfectly cold, take the jars off, place 
in a cool, dark cellar, and we warrant that they keep for 
years. No salt or seasonings of any kind are used to pre- 
serve them. When you wish to use them, season to taste. 

Tomato Catsup, — To make catsup with the above 
sauce, you have only to add to it, when in jars, peppers, 
pimento, cloves, etc. ; but it is really not necessary, being 
too strong for this climate. 

Another way, — Take good and well-ripened tomatoes, 
clean and wash them well, put them in a stewpan and set it 
on a moderate fire for a while ; take from the fire, throw 
away the water coming from them, and then strain them 
into a vessel. Put what there is in the vessel back on the 
fire, and in the same stewpan, and let it reduce about one- 
half; take fi:om the fire, pour in a crockery pot, and leave 
thus twenty-four hours ; then put in bottles, cork well, and 
place them in a cold and dry place. 



VEGETABLES. • 355 

Cucumbers, — The small green ones are the best. Clean 
them well in cold water with a brush, remo^dng the prickles. 
Put cold water in a vessel with rock-salt in it, and shake it 
to dissolve the salt ; soak the cucumbers in it for about 
three days. Take them out and immediately put them 
in pots or jars with small onions, a few cloves of garlic, 
pepper-corns, rock-salt, cloves, and a bunch of seasonings 
composed of bay-leaves, tarragon, and burnet ; cover them 
with boiling vinegar (turn the vinegar on them as soon as it 
boils), cover the pots or jars air-tight when perfectly cold. 
Look at the cucumbers' every two or three days for the 
first three weeks, and ;affcer that only once in a while. 
According to the quality of the vinegar or of the cucum- 
ber itself^ the whole may turn white after a while ; in that 
case throw away vinegar and spices, put new spices in, the 
same spices as above, except the onions', which you keep 
with the cucumbers; cover again with boiling vinegar, 
and cover when cold as before. If they have not been 
kept too long in that state before changing the vinegar, 
they will be just as good as if they had not turned white. 



EGGS, MACAROl^I, AND RICE. 



Eggs are fit to eat as soon as laid, and the sooner they 
are used the better. You ascertain if they are fresh with 
an oonoscope, or by holding them before a light and look- 
ing through. There are several ways to preserve eggs, 
but f do which they must be fresh ; as soon as perfectly 
cold after being laid, they may be preserved. Dissolve 
gum in water to the consistency of thin mucilage, and 
with a brush give a coat of it to the eggs ; lay them in a 
box of charcoal dust and keep them in a dry, dark, and 
cool place. When wanted, they are soaked in cold water 
for a few minutes, and washed. They are also preserved 
in hydrate of lime. When boiled hard, let them cool and 
place them in a dry, cool, and dark place ; they will keep 
for weeks. If wanted warm after that, put them in cold 
water, set on the fire, and take off when the water is warm. 

With Mushrooms, — Cut in strips or fillets four mush- 
rooms, one onion, one clove of garlicj and fry them with 
two ounces of butter, then add a tablespoonful of flour, stir 
for about one minute, add also half a pint of broth, same 
of white wine, boil gently till reduced about one-hal^ when 
put in the pan eight or ten hard-boiled eggs cut in dice, 
or cut the whites only in dice and put in the yolk whole, 
boil one minute and serve. It makes an excellent dish for 
breakfast. 



. EGGS, MACAi&ONI, AND EIOE. 367 

With Cheese and Parsley. — ^Put about two ounces of 
butter in a saucepan on the fire, and when melted fry in 
it a tablespoonful of parslej'", chopped fine ; then add a 
pinch of nutmeg, salt, pepper, about four ounces of pine- 
apple or Gruyere cheese, grated, and a gill of white wine ; 
stir till the cheese is melted, when you add* eight or ten 
eggs, one after another, stirring the whole time and mixing 
them with the cheese; serve when done. More cheese 
may be used, according to taste. 

' In Fricassee, — Put about half a pound of stale bread 
with one pint of milk in a saucepan on the fire and boil for 
two or three minutes, then mash well so as to mix the two 
together, put back on the fire, stir continually till it makes 
a rather thin paste, then take ofi^ mix with it six or eight 
eggs, grated cheese to taste, salt and pepper, put back on 
the fire, stir, and serve when cooked. Lemon-juice may be 
sprinkled on just before* serving. 

A la Lyonnaise. — Chop fine two white onions and fry 
them with two ounces of butter, then add salt, a pinch of 
nutmeg, half a pint of broth ; boil gently and stir now and 
then till it tm*ns rather thick, when you add also eight 
whites of eggs, chopped ; give one boil, and serve. Place 
the eight yolks, whole, all around, and. between and alter- 
nately a small cake feuillete, and serve warm. 

A la Bechamel, — Slice the eggs or cut them in four 
pieces lengthwise, put them in Bechamel sauce, set on a 
slow fire for two minutes, and sefve warm. 

Fines Heroes, — Mix well together in a saucepan, and 
cold, two ounces of butter with a tablespoonful of flour ; 
set on the fire, stir, and when melted thoroughly, add a 
teaspoohful of parsley and one of chives, chopped fine, salt, 
pepper, and about a gill of white wine; stir, and boil 
gently for about five minutes, and tura over hard-boiled 



358 EGGS, MAOABONI, AND EIOE. 

eggs in a dish ; serve warm. The eggs are served whole, 
shelled, but not cut. 

Piquante-Sauce. — Dish hard-boiled eggs as for fines 
herbes, and turn over them a piquante sauce ; serve 
warm. They may be served in the same way with any 
other sauce. 

Stuffed, or a VAurore, — Cut six hard-boiled eggs in 
tw*o lengthwise ; take the yolks off the whites ; chop them 
line with six or eight sprigs of paysley, put both eggs and 
parsley in a bowl ; add salt, pepper, a little nutmeg grated, 
a piece of the soft part of bread soaked in milk and 
squeezed, three ounces of butter, mix the whole welL 
Then with the mixture fill the whites, that is, the place 
where the yolks were ; fill a little more than. fuU, so that 
all the mixture will go into and upon the twelve halves. 
Lay in a saucepan a puree of spinach or of sorrel, or of 
any other vegetable, according to taste ; lay the halves of 
eggs on it, the mixture upward ; put for ten minutes in 
the' oven, and serve warm. 

In Boxes, — ^Fold note-paper so as to make a kind of 
square box without a cover ; put half an ounce of butter 
in it with a pinch of chopped paroley; lay it on a grid- 
iron and on a slow fire, break an ^gg in it, and when 
nearly done add salt and bread-crumbs, to taste ; serve 
warm when done. 

With Cheese, — Prepare as the above; add grated 
cheese at the same time you add salt and bread-crumbs; 
finish the cooking, and serve warm. 

Au (}ratin, — Chop fine six or eight sprigs of parsley, a 
shallot if handy, or a small onion, half an ounce of the soft 
part of bread, an anchovy, and then mix the whole well 
with two ounces of butter ; mix again with two yolks of 
eggs, place the mixture in a tin dish, place on a slow fire^ 



EaaS, MACARONI, AND BICE. 359 

and wlien getting rather dry break half a dozen eggs over 
it, dust with bread-crumbs, season with salt and pepper, 
and when nearly done spread two yolks of eggs be'aten, 
with a teaspoonful of water over the whole, and serve 
warm. 

With Ham, — Prepare as scrambled eggs with the ex- 
ception that you put in the pfan, at the same time you put 
in the eggs, four ounces of boiled ham cut in dice. Serve 
the same. 

With Milk J Water ^ or Cream, — These three names 
are wrongly applied to eggs in many cook-books ; they are 
creams, and not eggs. 

Mam and Eggs, — There are several ways of preparing 
this good dish ; the hg,m may be raw or boiled ; in slices 
or in dice ; mixed with the eggs, or merely served under. 
Fry the ham slightly, dish it and then turn fried eggs over 
it ; or fry both at the same time, the eggs being whole or 
scrambled, according to taste. 

With Asparagus, — Cut in pieces, about a quarter of 
an inch long, a gill of the tender part of asparagus, throw 
it in boiling water with a little salt ; boil as directed, and 
drain. Beat eight eggs just enough to mix the yolks with 
the whites ; put them in a stewpan, season with a pinch of 
grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper ; add also a tablespoon- 
ful of warm water, set on a slow fire, stir till they are be- 
coming thick; then add four ounces of butter, stir five 
minutes longer ; add the gill of asparagus ; simmer about 
five minutes longer, and serve. 

Boiled, — {See Eggs in the Shell.) — Put the eggs in 
boiling water with a little salt, as near as possible at the 
first boiling ; leave from five to ten minutes ; take out and 
put them immediately in cold water; then shell them 
without breaking them, and use. 



360 EGGS, MAOAEONI, AND EICE. 

With Brown Butter, — ^Breat gently in a plate or dish^ 
and without breaking the yolks, eight eggs ; sprinkle salt 
and pepper on them. Put two ounces of butter in a fry- 
ing-pan, and on a good fire ; when turning brown subdue 
the fire. Put also, and at the same time, the same quan- 
tity of butter in another fi'ying-pan, and on a good fire, 
and when hot, place the eggs in without breaking the 
yolks ; then spread o\er the eggs the brown butter you 
have in the other; take from the fire when you see the 
whites becoming hard ; put them on a dish, pour on them 
a tablespoonful of vinegar which you have warmed -in the 
pan after having used the brown buttef, and serve. 

Friedr — ^Put half a pound of lard in a frying-pan, and 
on a good fire ; when hot, break gently, one by one (be- 
ing careful not to break the yolk), the quantity of ^gs 
you can put in the pan without allowing them to adhere 
together ; turn them upside down once with a <^oon er 
skimmer; take from the pan with a skimmer as soon as 
the white part becomes hard, and serve with fi-ied parsley 
around. 

Scrambled, or Mashed. — ^Beat six eggs just enough to 
mix the whites and yolks together ; put two ounces of 
butter in a stewpan, and set on the fire ; when melted, 
take from the fire, add. salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated 
nutmeg, then the eggs, also a tablespoonful of broth ; put 
back on a very slow fire, stir continually till cooked, and 
serve warm. 

Sur le Plat — ^Butter the bottom of a crockery or tin 
dish with two ounces of butter ; break into the dish and 
over the butter, gently and without breaking the yolks, 
six eggs ; sprinkle salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg all over. 
put the dish on a slow fire, or on warm cinders, and when 
the white is hard, serve. They must be seiTed in the dish 
in which they are cooked. 



uf 



EGGS, MACAEONI, AND RICE. 361 

In the Shell, — Bear in mind that some eggs cook 
quicker than others. Put eggs in boiling water for two 
minutes, if liked soft or underdone ; and three minutes, if 
liked more done. They are generally served enveloped in 
a napkin. 

In Matelote. — Put a bottle, of claret wine in a stewpan 
and f«t it on a good fire ; add to it two sprigs of parsley, 
one of thyme, a clove of garlic, a*middling-sized onion, a 
cloyjp- a'bay-leaf, salt, and pepper ; boil fifteen minutes ; 
then t{^Q all the seasonings out and have your wine boil- 
ing gently ; break one ^gg in by letting it fall gently in 
order to have it entire, and then take it out immediately 
with a skimmer, and place it on a dish ; do the same with 
eight eggs ; keep them in a warm (but not hot) place. 
After which put in the wine, without taking it from the 
fire, four ounces of butter kneaded with a tablespoonful 
of flour ; boil till reduced to a proper thickness, pour it 
on the eggs, and serve. 

With Onions, — Cut in dice three middling-sized 
onions and put them in a saucepan with four ounces of 
butter ; set it on a moderate fire and stir now and then 
till the onions are turning yellow, then sprinkle on them 
a teaspoonful of flour, salt, and pepper; add a pint of 
warm water and boil gently till rather thick, but not too 
much so. Put into the saucepan half a dozen hard-boiled 
eggs ciit in four pieces each, lengthwise, boil gently two 
or three minutes longer, and serve warm. 

With Green Peas, — Proceed as for eggs with asparagus, 
except that you boil a gill of peas instead of asparagus ; 
prepare and serve in the same way. 

With Cauliflowers, — Blanch the cauliflowers and pro- 
ceed as for.the above. Eggs are prepared as above, with 
celery, lettuce, etc. 

16 




362 • EGGS, MACARONI, AND BIOE. 

A la Tnpe.-PToceed exactly the B«f ^^f /^J^^^f. 
with onions, except that you use milk or brotli instead of 

'''''1 la Neige, or Floaimg /sZani.-Beat four (or mor^ 
whites of eggs to a stiff froth. Put in a tm saucepan 
one pint of milk and one ounce of sugar, set on the Hre, 
and as soon as it rises put lumps of the whites into it ^iin 
a skimmer; turn the lumps^over after having been m aDom 
half a minute, leave themV^^iother half ^^^^ 
them off with a skimmer also, place them on a 

allow the milk that may be around ti. ® " ^f 

^ . . /. 11 /. '^ two ounces oi 

Put in a tin saucepan four yolks of cggs,-^,^^;^^ ^^^^ ^ 

sugar, and mix well ; add the^milk that has be^,\j||^ 
cook the whites, after having strained it, and mix 
Set on the fire, stir, give one boil, take off, add a few drops 
of essence to flavor ; turn into a dish ; place the lumps of 
whites gently on the liquor and they will float ; and serve 
cold. If the liquor is desired thicker, use only half of the 
milk. 

To poach Eggs, — Set cold water on the fire in a frying- 
pan, with salt and vinegar in it, a tablespoonjful of vin; 
egar to a quart of water. As soon as it boils, break a ^ 
fresh egg in the water or in a small plate, and slide it 
gently into the water. Then with a skimmer turn the 
white gently and by degrees over the yolk, so as to .en- 
velop the latter in the former, giving the eggs an elon- 
gated shape. They may be poached hard or soft — ^hard 
when the yolk is cooked hard ; soft when the yolk is 
still in a soft state. 

Fondue of Eggs, — ^Beat well six eggs, and put them in a 
stewpan with two ounces of Gruyere, well grated, and about 
one ounce of butter ; set on a brisk fire, an deleave till it 
becomes rather thick, stirring all the time with a wooden 



EGGS, MACAEONI, AND EIOE. '363 

spoon ; take from the fire, add pepper, and stir a little ; 
turn over on a warm dish, and serve. This is a very 
favorite dish in Italy, and also .in Switzerland, where it 
origin ^ed. 

To beat Whites of Eggs, — ^Have a convenient basin ; 
break the eggs gently ; allow the whites to fall in the basin 
and retain the yolks in the shell. This is very easily 
done^by breaking the shell about the middle, opening 
-d^UKl^j^ as to let the white fall, and at the same time re- 
tain the yolk in one of the halves of the shell ; if some 
white remains, turn the yolk from one half into the other, 
and vice versa, till the whole of it has fallen. Then add a 
very small pinch of salt to. prevent the curdling of the 
eggs ; commence by beating slowly ; beat faster and faster, 
till they form a stiff frpth. They are well beaten when, 
placing a twenty-five and a ten-cent silver piece on the 
top, they are firm enough to bear them. If the pieces 
sink, beat again. Always beat eggs in a cool place, they 
will rise better and faster. [See Egg-bhatbb.) 

Basin, — ^Pay no attention to the old prejudice and 
belief that metal is not good to beat eggs in. The best 
and easiest for family use, in which one as well as a dozen 
whites of eggs can be easily whisked, is of block-tin, and 
can be made by any tinsmith. It has the shape of an 
.ordinary goblet oi* tumbler if the foot is cut off, the 
bottom being round. Size : six inches deep from the cen- 
tre of the bottom to the top ; eight incfies in diameter at 
the top, and only six inches in diameter where the bottom 
commences (or five inches from the top) ; the basin being 
broader at the top than at the bottom, and the bottom 
being one inch deeper in the centre than on the sides. 

Omelets — kow to heat the Eggs, — Break in a bowl the 
quantity of eggs you want, or as many as there are per- 



364 EGGS, MACARONI, AND EIOE. 

sons at the table ; beat them well with salt and pepper, by 
means of a fork. A little grated nutmeg may be adde<I, 
if liked. The adding of milk to the eggs makes the ome- 
let soft. ' . 

To make it, — Always hav-e a brisk fire to make an ome- 
let ; the quicker it is made the better, and the less butter 
it requires. If possible, have a frying-pan to make ome- 
lets only in; keep it in a clean place and neve» wash 
it if you can help it ; by warming it a little befo.^ japaking 
the omelets and wiping it with a coarse towel, you can 
keep it as clean as can be without washing. To wash it 
causes the omelet to adhere to it while cooking, and in- 
jures its appearance. Conomence by beating the eggs, 
then put the butter in the frying-pan, about two ounces 
for eight eggs ; set on the fire and toss gently to melt the 
butter as evenly and as quickly as possible, else somp of 
it will get black before the whole is melted. As soon 
as melted, turn the beaten eggs in, and stir and move con- 
tinually with a fork or knife, so as to cook the whole as 
nearly as possible at the same time. If some part of the 
omelet sticks to. the pan, add a little butter, and raise that 
part with a knife so as to allow the butter to run mider 
it, and prevent it from sticking again. It must be done 
quickly, and without taking the pan from the fire. When 
cooked according to taste, soft or hard, fold, dish, and 
serve warm. 

It is folded in this way : run the knife or fork under 
one part of the omelet, on the side nearest to the handle 
of the pan, and turn that part over the other part of the 
omelet, so as to double it or nearly so ; then have an oval 
dish in your left hand, take hold of the frying-pan with 
the right hand, the thumb upward instead of the fingers, 
as is generally the case in taking hold of a pan, incline 



/._ 



EGGS, MACAEONI, AND RICE. 365 

the dish by raisiDg the left side, place the edge of the pan 
(the one opposite to the handle) on the edge of the dish, 
turn it upside down — and you have the omelet on the 
dish, doubled*up and sightly. Cooks do not succeed in 
turning out a decent omelet generally, because they cook it 
too much, turn it upside down in the pan, or because 
they do not. know how to handle the pan. 

In holding the pan as it is generally and naturally held, 
-<fRiti%-with the palm of the hand resting on the upper 
side of the handle, it is impossible for anybody, cook or 
other, to dish the omelet properly without extraordinary 
efforts ; while by resting the thumb on the upper part of 
the handle, the fingers under it, the little finger being the 
nearest to the pan, it is only necessary to move the right 
hand from right to left, describing a circle and twisting 
the wrist, so that, when the pan is turned upside down, the 
fingers are up instead of downward, as they were when 
taking hold of the pan. 

An omelet is called soft if, whan you commence to 
fold, only about two-thirds of the eggs are sohdified ; and 
hard, when nearly the whole of the eggs are solidified. 
With a good fire it takes only about four minutes to make 
an omelet. 

By following our directions carefully, it will be very 
eiasy to make an omelet, and make it well and sightly, 
even the first time, and will be child's play to make one 
after a few days' practice. 

With Apples, — Peel two or three apples, cut them in 
thin, round slices, fry them with a little butter, and take 
them from the pan ; then put a little more butter in the 
pan, and when hot, pour in it six beaten eggs, in which 
you have mixed the slices of apples ; cook, dish, and serve 
as directed above. 



366 EGGS, MACARONI, AND EICE. 

With Asparagtis, — Cut the eatable part of the aspar- 
agus half an inch in length, throw them in boiling water 
with a little salt, drain them when cooked, and chop them 
fine ; beat them with eggs and a little milk ; have hot 
butter in a frying-pan on a good fire ; pour the eggs in, 
tossing continually tiH done, and serve on a dish as di- 
rected. 

With Bacon, — Put two ounces of butter in a frying- 
pan ; when melted, add two ounces of bacon cut m dice;** 
when turning brown and very hot, pour in eight eggs, 
beaten as directed above ; toss the pan nearly all the time 
till done, and serve as directed. 

Au natureL — Beat five eggs, with salt and pepper, as 
directed. Put about an ounce of butter in a frying-pan 
on the fire, and when melted, turn the eggs in ; cook, 
dish, and serve as directed. 

Aux Fines Herhes, — Proceed as for au naturel in every 
particular, except that you beat with the eggs a table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, or parsley and chives, when 
handy ; cook, dish, and serve in the same way. 

Celestine. — Beat eight eggs as directed. Dip the 
point of a small kitchen knife in water and cut with it 
little lumps of butter the size of a pea and of any shape; 
about two ounces of it, drop them in the eggs and beat a 
little to mix, then melt butter in a frying-pan and coot, 
dish, and serve as directed. 

In the Oven, — ^When the omelet au naturel or Celestine 
is cooked enough to commence folding, put the frying-pan 
in a quick oven for about one minute and serve. Tlie 
omelet swells and does not need folding, but if it gains in 
bulk, it loses in taste. 

Jardiniere, — Chop fine, parsley, chives, onions, shallots, 
a few leaves of sorrel, and a few sprigs of chervil ; beat 



EGGS, macaroni; and kice. 367 

and mix the Tvhole well with beaten eggs ; cook, dish, and 
serve as directed. It requires a little more butter than if 
made with eggs only. 

With Cheese^ — Grate some pine-apple or Chuyere 
cheese, about two ounces to four or five eggs, and mix and 
beat it with the eggs ; then make the omelet as directed. 

With Sidney, — Sauti as directed, till about half done, 
part of a beef or calfs kidney, or one sheep's kidney, 
and mix it with beaten eggs. Cook and serve as directed, 
if" makes an excellent dish for breakfast. The kidney 
may be cooked till done, and when the omelet is to be 
folded in t!i5 pan, .put five or six tablespoonfuls of the 
kidney on the middle of the omelet, fold, dish, and serve 
as directed. When dished, none of the kidney is seen, 
being under the omelet. 

With Mushrooms, — Cut mushrooms in pieces, and mix 
them with beaten eggs ; then cook and serve them as di- 
rected. This also makes an excellent dish for breakfast, 
especially if made with fresh mushrooms. 

With Sorrel, — ^Make an omelet au naturel or Celestine, 
and serve it on a puree of sorrel. The same may be served 
on a puree of tomatoes or onions. 

With Lobster. — Cut two ounces of boiled lobster in 
small dice, mix it well with beaten eggs, and cook and 
serve as directed. 

WttJi Sugar, — Mix well the yolks of eight eggs with 
two ounces of fine white sugar and a pinch of salt, and 
beat well the whites ; then mix well yolks, whites, and the 
rind of half a lemon, having the latter chopped very fine. 
Put four ounces of butter in a frying-pan, and set it on the 
fire; when melted, 'pour the eggs in, and toss and stir as 
directed. Then dust a dish with fine white sugar, put the 
omelet on, then dust again the upper side with the same ; 



368 EGGS, MAOABONI, AND EICE. 

have ready a red-liot shovel, or any other flat piece of iron, 
pass it over the top of the omelet, so as to color it while 
melting the sugar, and serve warm. The whole process 
must be performed quickly. The sugar maybe beaten 
with the eggs whole ; both ways are good ; it is only a 
question of taste. 

With Rum, — ^Make an omelet with sugar as' above, and 
when on the table, pour a gill or so of rum on it, set fire 
to it, and let it bum as long as it can,- taking slowly but 
continually with a silver spoon the rum from the sides, and 
pouring it on the middle while it is burning, and until it 
dies out by 'itself; then <?at immediately. 

With Truffles. — Slice four ounces of truffles, beat them 
with six eggs, a little milk, and a little salt and pepper. 
Put in a frying-pan four ounces of butter, and set it on a 
good fire; when melted, pour the eggs in, toss almost con- 
tinually till done, and serve as directed for omelets. 

With Ham, — Cut four ounces of ham in small dice, 
and set it on the fire in a frying-pan with about two ounces 
of butter ; stir, and while the ham is frying, beat six eggs 
and turn them over the ham in the pan when the latter is 
fried ; stir with a fork, to cook the eggs as quickly as pos- 
sible ; turn the part of the om.elet nearest to you over the 
other part by means of a fork, and serve like an omelet 
au natureV 

With Boiled Ham, — Proceed as for the above in every 
particular, except that you mix the ham with the eggs after 
the latter are beaten ; put the mixture in the frying-pan, 
and finish as the above. 

With Salt Pork (called omelet au Lard). — Beat half 
a dozen eggs with a fork. Cut four ounces of salt pork 
in dice, set it on the fire in a frying-pan, and when nearly 
fried turn tjie eggs in ; stir, and finish as other omelets. 



EGGSj MACAEONI, AND RICE. 369 

Lean or fat salt pork (according to taste) may be used, or 
both. If it is all lean, use some butter, otherwise it will 
bum. 

Soufflee, — Put in 'a bowl • four ounces of pulver- 
ized sugar with four yolks of eggs ; then with a wooden 
spoon mix well and stir for. two minutes ; add a few drops 
of essence to flavor. Beat the whites of four eggs to a 
stiff froth in another bowl, and when you see that they are 
beaten enough, turn two tablespoon ftds of the yolks and 
sugar into them, and while still beating, but not as fast ; 
then turn the rest of the yolks and sugar into the whites, 
and mix gently with a wooden spoon. Butter a tin or 
silver dish, turn the mixture into it, smooth or scallop 
with the back of a knife, dust with sugar, and bake in an 
oven at about 310°. It takes about twelve minutes to bake. 

Another, — ^Mix well six yolks of eggs with four ounces 
of sugar; beat the six whites to a stift* froth and mix them 
with the rest, add some lemon-rind chopped very fine or 
grated. Put four ounces of butter in a crockery dish, set 
on a moderate fire, and when the butter is melted pour the 
eggs in ; stir with a fork, and as soon as you see some of 
the mixture becoming hard, place the dish in a hot oven 
for about five minutes ; take off, dust with sugar, and 
serve. 

Macedoine, or a la Washington. — Make four omelets 
of four eggs each, one with apples, one with asparagus or 
sorrel (according to the season), a third with JiTies herhes, 
and the fourth au naturel ; you serve them on the same 
dish, one lapping over the other. It makes a fine as well 
as a good dish. 

This omelet, or rather these .omelets, were a favorite 
dish with the Father of his Country; they were very often 
served on his table when he had a grand dinner. It is also 

10* 



370 EGOS, MACARONI, AND RICE. 

served with the four following omelets : au naturel, -with 
salt pork, fines herhes, and with cheese. 

With Oysters, — Blanch a dozen oysters, drain, and 
beat with the eggs, and then proceed as directed. 

With Tunny^ or any hind of smoked or salt Fish, — 
Beat the eggs as directed, using little or no salt; then 
chop the fish fine, mix and beat it with the eggs, and cook 
as directed. It requires a little more butter than if there 
were no fish. A few drops of lemon-juice may be added 
when dished. 

With Sweetmeats, — Make an omelet aw naturely and 
when ready to be folded in the pan, place on the middle 
of it two or three tablespoonfuls of any kind of sweet- 
meats, then fold and serve. 

Omelets ai^ served as entremets after the vegetables, and 
at breakfast All but four are served as entremets, and all 
are served at breakfast ; the four excepted are : with ba- 
con, ham, salt pork, and kidneys. By using different 
kinds of sweetmeats, an infinite number of omelets can 
be made, and, except the soufflee^ they are all made alike. 

Macaroni, — This excellent article of food is now as 
well known here as in Europe. The harder the wheat the 
better the macaroni. The manufacturers of this country 
use Michigan flour in preference to any other. 

To blanch, — Put about three pints of cold water and 
a little salt on the fire, and at the first boiling drop half a 
pound of macaroni into it ; boil gently till tender but not 
soft. It takes about twenty minutes to boil it, according 
to quality. A little butter, about two ounces, may be 
added in boiling. As soon as tender, turn it into a colan- 
der, and it is ready for use. 

Au Gratin, — Blanch the macaronf, and when drained 
put it on a tin or silver dish, and mix with it a Bechamel 




EGGS, MAOAEONI, AKD RICE. 371 

sauce ; add salt, pepper, two or three ounces of butter, a 
little nutmeg grated, about four pounds of grated cheese, 
either pine-apple, Omyhe^ or Parmesan ; dust with bread- 
crumbs, put about eight pieces of butter the size of a 
hazel-nut here and there on the top, set in a warm but 
not quick oven till the top turns rather brown, and serve 
warm as it is, that is, in the dish in which it is. If in a 
tin dish, put it inside of another dish, and serve. 

A Vltalienne, — Blanch half a pound of macaroni 
and <irain it Put it in a saucepan with four ounces of 
butter, and mix well by stirring the butter in the warm 
macaroni. Then add also three or four tablespoon fills of 
gravy; mix again half a pint of tomato-sauce and grated 
cheese, as for au gratin ; set on the fire, stir, add salt to 
taste; keep on the fire for about ten minutes, stirring now 
and then, and serve warm. 

Napolitaine, — This is the most expensive way of pre- 
paring macaroni. Wealthy Italians have it prepared with 
beef a la mode gravy only, or gravy made especially for 
it, with good lean beef cut in dice, and using as many as 
twelve pounds of meat to make gravy for one pound of 
macaroni, the meat being prepared as boiled beef after- 
ward, but it can be prepared with ordinary gravy. 

Blanch four ounces of macaroni and drain as directed, 
then put it in a saucepan with two ounces of butter, salt, 
pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and set on the fire ; stir 
till the butter is melted, and then add grated cheese as 
directed for au gratin^ and half a pint of gravy; stir and 
mix for about ten minutes, and serve. Macaroni requires 
much butter ; the quantity of cheese is according to taste ; 
some put weight for weight of macaroni, butter, and 
cheese. It is also prepared in a mould {en timhale) for 
chartreuse ; it is macaroni Napoliiaine, when every thing 



372 EGOS, MACAEONI, AND BICE. 

is mixed with it ; instead of leaving it ten minutes on the 
fire, put it in the mould, set in the oven for about fifteen 
minutes, turn over a dish, and serve warm. In using much 
cheese, the macaroni will preserve the form of the mould 
when served. 
. In 6Vogw6^ie5.'— Proceed as for rice croquettes. 

Rice — to boil. — ^Wash half a pound of rice in water 
and drain it ; put it in a saucepan with one quart of broth 
taken fi:om the top of the broth-kettle, and before having 
skimmed oflf the fat ; set on the fire, boil gently for about 
fifteen minutes, or till rather underdone, and put on a 
very slow fire to finish the cooking. Water and butter 
may be used instead of broth. If the broth is absorbed 
or boiled away before the rice is cooked, add a little more 
to keep it moist; add salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste, 
and it is ready for use. 

Another way, — When boiled, place it in a slow oven 
to dry it, and then pour over it, little by little, stirring the 
while, four ounces of melted butter. , 

Another, — Wash half a pound of rice in cold water 
and drain it. Put it in a saucepan with two quarts of 
cold water, salt, and the juice of two lemons; boil six 
minutes, and drain ; put it in a saucepan then with about 
six ounces of m.elted butter ; mix, cover the pan well, and 
put it in a slow oven for about half an hour ; take ofi'and use. 

Eice may be boiled in several difierent ways, or rather 
with several ingredients. To the above ways, in India or 
other southern countries, they add, besides salt and nut- 
meg, a teaspoonful of curry-powder to a pound of rice. 
In Italy they add slices of ham, sausage, saffron, and even 
Parmesan cheese. When cooked, chopped truffles may be 
added at the same time with the butter. Oil is sometimes 
used instead of butter. 



EGGS, MACARONI, AND EIOE. 373 

In Border.^-^'When thus prepared, take it with a spoon 
and place it all around the dish, leaving room in the mid- 
dle to serve a bird, and then serve warm. . 

Another way, — When prepared as above, put the rice 
in a mould for border; the rice must be rather dry and 
the mould well buttered. Press on it so as to fill the 
mould well, then put it in an oven at about 350 deg. Fahr. 
for ten or twelve minutes. Take ofi^, place a dish on the 
mould, turn it upside down, and remove the mould. The 
inside of a mould, for hordes, is plain, but the outside 
and bottom are scalloped ; the. bottom makes the top of 
the rice when served. There is an empty place in the 
centre to hold a bird. 

Oa^. — Butter a mould well and then dust it with su- 
gar. Prepare rice as directed, for croquettes, and instead 
of spreading it on a dish to cool, fill the mould about two- 
thirds full with it, and bake in a warm but not quick oven 
for about hsflf an hour. Serve on a dish. The mould 
may be prepared with sugar only in this way : put pul- 
verized sugar into the mould, set it on a rather slow 
fire, and when turning rather brown turn the mould round 
and round, so as to have it lined all over with sugar ; bake 
as above, turn over a dish, remove the mould, and serve 
hot or cold, with or without a sauce for puddings. 

In Croquettes. — ^Wash four ounces of rice in cold water 
and set it on the fire with a pint of milk and the rind of 
half a lemon ; wh^n done or nearly so, the milk may be 
boiled away or absorbed by the rice ; add a little more to 
keep the rice nearly covered with it. When done, take 
off and mix with it two tablespoonfiils of sugar, two ounces 
of butter, two tablespoonfuls of milk, three yolks of eggs, a 
little pinch of salt, and the same of nutmeg—- the latter, if 
liked. Put back on the fire for one minute, stirring the 



374: EGOS, MACARONI, AND BIOB. 

while. Spread the mixture on a dish and let cool. If the 
croquettes are for breakfast, the above may be done the 
evening previous. When cold, stir the mixture, so as to 
mix the upper part with the rest that is less drv. Put it 
in parts on the paste-board, about a tablespoonful for each 
part. Have bread-crumbs on it, roll each part of the shape 
you wish, either round, like a small sausage, or flat, or of 
a chop-shape. Then dip each croqtiette in beaten e^, roll 
in bread-crumbs again, and fry in hot fat. (jSee^BYisQ,) 

To shape them, roll each part round at first, aSSHwritf-"' 
a few bread-crumbs ; then with a knife you smooth both 
ends, while you roll them round with the left hand ; the 
two must be done at the same time. When fried and in 
the colander, dust with sugar, and serve as warm as possi- 
ble. Croquettes are generally served in pyramid. A nap- 
kin may be spread on the platter, and the croquettes served 
on it. 

In Fritters, — ^When a rice-cake is- cold, It may be cut 
in pieces, dipped in batter for fritters, fried {see Frying), 
dusted with sugar, and served hot. 

Souffle, — Prepare rice as directed for croquettes, and 
when ready to be spread on a dish, add a few drops of es- 
sence to flavor ; have five whites of eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth, and mix * them gently with it ; butter a mould well, 
fill it two-thirds full with the mixture, dust with sugar and 
set in a warm but not quick oven, and serve as soon as 
brown and raised. It takes from fifteen to twenty minutes. 
If the oven is warmer under the cake than on the top, it 
would be necessary to place something under the mould, 
the cake rises better and is lighter. This cake, like every 
scmffle, must be served promptly and before it falls. 

With Fruit, — This dish is excellent, sightly, easilj 
made, and can be varied infinitely. The rice is prepared 



EGGS, MAOAEONI5 AND EICE. 375 

as for croquettes^ and is used when ready to be spread over 
d dish to cool. The fruit, if it hiqpples, pears, plums, etc., 
is stewed. One or several kinds may be used for the same 
dish. It is served warm or cold, according to taste. Place 
a layer of stewed fruit on a dish and then a layer of rice 
over it ; another layer of the same or of another stewed 
fruit, and' over it a layer of rice. Place as many layers as 
you fancy, imitating a pyramid, and you have a fine dish. 

Bice-water, — This being often prescribed by doctors 
against diarrhoea, we will give the receipt for it.. See that 
the rice is clean, but do not wash it. Put one pint of rice 
in a pan with a quart of cold water, and boil gently till the 
rice is quite soft or a little overdone ; if the water boils 
away, fill up with cold water so as to have the rice always 
covered by it. When done, mash it through a colander, 
put back on the fire, add water to make it thin or thick, 
according to prescription ; as soon as warm, sweeten to 
taste with sugar or honey, and take cold or warm, also ac- 
cording to prescription. 

Nouilles» — Put four tablespoonfdls of flour on the 
paste-board ; make a hole in the middle, and break two 
eggs in it, add a pinch of salt, and knead well ; then 
roll down to a thickness of one-twelfth of an inch ; dust it 
slightly with flour ; cut it in strips about an inch wide ; 
then cut these strips across, so as to make fillets one incli 
long and one-eighth of an inch broad. Spread the strips 
on a sieve for half an hour, to dry them a little. Put cold 
water and a pinch of salt in a saucepan, and set it on the 
fire; at the first boiling throw the nouilles in, boil two 
minutes, stirring occasionally ; drain, throw them . in cold 
water and it is ready for use. It may be kept in cold 
water half a day. Nouilles are used to make soup, and 
are prepared in the same and every way like macaroni. 



SWEET DISHES.. 




• These are served both as entremets and dessert. Many 
are entremets at a grand dinner, and dessert at a family 
dinner. As the name indicates, sugar is one of the most 
important of the compounds used to prepare them. It is 
used in syrup, the making of which is generally more diflS- 
cult than the rest of the operation. 

The father of cooks, the great Careme, divides syrup, 
or the " cooking of sugar," as he calls it, and as every 
practitioner has called it since, into six degrees ; each one 
corresponding to the six different states into which the 
sugar passes, while on the fire, from the time it begins to 
boil to that when it begins to turn caramel or burned. 

A copper pan is the best and handiest of all ; it can be 
done in another, but it is more diflBcult ; the sugar turns 
brown before being thoroughly cooked or reduced. Al- 
ways use good loaf sugar. If it be necessary to clarify it, 
do it in the following way : for five pounds of sugar, put 
the white of an egg in a bowl with half a pint of water, and 
beat well with an egg-beater ; then turn into it nearly three 
pints of water, stir, put away half a pint of it to be used 
afterward. Then add to the rest five pounds of sugar, in 



SWEET DISHES. 377 

lumps, set on a rather slow fire, and as soon as it comes to 
a boil, mix witli it the half pint put away, little by little, 
sMmming off carefully the while, and when no more scum 
gathers on the surface, strain through a towel and com- 
mence the working. If the sugar does not require to be 
clarified, that is, when it is good white sugar, set five 
pounds of it on the fire, in a copper pan, with nearly two 
quarts of water, and skim off carefully as soon as the scum 
gathers. It may be stirred a little to cause the sugar to 
nielt evenly, but as soon as it commences to boil, stop stir- 
ring,, else it will turn white and stringy. It passes from 
one state or degree to another in a very short time, and 
must be watched closely. It is at the first degree when, 
by dipping a piece of wood into it so as to retain a drop 
of it at the end, and which you touch with another piece 
of wo</d — if, by pulling them apart, slowly and immedi- 
ately, instead of separating it at once, it forms a thread, but 
that soon breaks. It marks then 34 at the hydrometer. 
It is at the second degree when, by repeating the same pro- . 
cess, the kind of thread formed does not break as easily as 
the first. It marks then 36. It is at the third degree 
when, by dipping a skimmer in it, holding it horizon- 
tally and striking it on the pan, then blowing on it, it 
forms small bubbles. It marks 39 at the hydrometer. It 
is at the fourth degree by trying again with the skimmer 
after a short time, and when, instead of forming bubbles, 
it will fly away like threads. It marks then, 41. The 
fifth degree is when, by dipping a piece of wood in the 
sugar and quickly dipping it also in a bowl of cold water, 
shaking it at the same time and then biting it ; if it breaks 
easily between the teeth, but at the same time is sticky, it 
has attained the fifth degree, and marks 44. A few boil- 
ings more and it is at \hQ sixth degree, and by trying in the 



378 SWEET DISHES. 

same way as the preceding one, it will break under the 
teeth, but will not stick to . them. Above 44 the mark is 
uncertain, the syrup being too thick ; it passes from that 
state to that oi caramel ; is colored, and would burn imme- 
diately. When 'that happens, make burnt sugar with it 
according to direction. 

Apples au Beurre, — Peel and core the applet with a 
fruit-corer. Cut slices of stale bread about one-quarter 
of an inch in thickness, and then cut" them again of a 
round shape with a paste-cutter and of the size of the i^ 
pies. Spread some butter on each slice and place an apple 
on each also. Butter a bakepan, place the apples and 
bread in, fill the hole made in the middle of the apple to 
core it with sugar ; place on the top of the sugar and on 
each a piece of butter the size of a hazel-nut, and set in a 
warm, but not quick oven. When about half done,)jill the 
hole again with sugar and a pinch of cinnamon, place but- 
ter on top as before, and finish the cooking, serve warm. 
When done, they may be glazed with apple-jelly and put 
back in the oven for two minutes ; the dish is more sightly. 

Flambantes, — Lay apples in a saucepan, after being- 
peeled and cored, add sugar to taste, and water enough just 
to cover them, also a stick of cinnamon, and set on a rather 
slow fire, and leave till done. Take them from the pan 
carefully and without breaking them ; place them on a tin 
or silver dish, forming a kind oF pyramid or mound ; turn 
the juice oyer them, dust with sugar, pour good rum all 
over, set it on fire, and serve immediately and warm. As 
soon as on fire it is placed on the table, and the host must 
baste with the rum so as to keep it burning till all the alco- 
hol is exhausted, then serve. 

The following cut represents either a dish of apples 
flambantes before being in flames, or apples with rice. 



In Fritters. — Peel, core, and cat apples in slices, and 
— then proceed as directed for frittera. Seire hot. 

With Wine. — ^Proceed as for apple3_^m6a»(es in every 
particular except that you slice the apples, and instead of 
pouring rum over, yon pour Madeira wine, and do not set 

Meringu^ea. — Peel, quarter, and core half a dozen ap- 
ples; set them on the fire in a saucepan with two table- 
spoonfuls of water; stir occasionally till done, then mix 
with them two or three tablespoon fuls of sugar, and when 
cold put them on a tin or silrer dish ; arrange them as a 
mound on the middle of the dish. Beat three whites of 
e^s to a stiff froth, and mix three ounces of pulverized 
sngar with them ; spread two thirds of that mixture all 
over and around the apples, smooth it with a knife ; then 
put the other third in a paper funnel, and by squcezeing it 
out, decorate the dish according to fancy. You may 
eqnceze some small heaps of the mixture here and there, 
over and around the dish, or squeeze it out all around, 
giving it a rope-like shape. Dust with sugar, and put In 
an oven at 250 degrees for twenty to twenty-five minutes. 
Serve warm in the dish in which it has been baked. 

Charlotte. — Peel, quarter, and core six apples ; put 
them in a pan with two tablespoonfuls of water, cinnamon, 
and stew till done, when add three or four ounces of sngar, 



./■ 



380 SWEET DISHES. 

\nix gently so as not to mash the apples, let cool. Butter 
a mould well, line it, bottom and sides, with strips of stale 
bread, about one quarter of an inch thick, one inch broad, 
and of a proper length for the mould. Fill till about half 
fiill with some of the apples, then put a rather thin layer 
of any kind of sweetmeat on the apples ; finish the fill- 
ing up with apples ; cover with pieces of stale bread, bake 
in an oven at about 340 degrees for about twenty minutes, 
turn over on a dish, remove the mould, and serve hot 

With Sweetmeats, — Prepare apples au beurre, and 
when ready to be served, fill the hole with any kind of 
sweetmeats or with currant-jelly. Serve warm. 

In Pine-Apple. — Core the apples with a fruit-corer 
and then peel them with the scalloped knife (the peels 
are used to tpake syrup or jelly), place them tastefully on 
a dish, so that they will form a pyramid, filling the place 
where the core was with sugar and a little cinnamon ; then 
pour a little apple-syrup on the whole, and bake. When 
done, pour a little more syrup over, and serve -cold or 
warm. 

Apple-Syrup. — Peel, quarter, and core four or six ap- 
ples, of the pippin variety; cook them well in about a 
' pint of water, a wine-glass of brandy, and a pinch of 
grated cinnamon ; when well cooked, put them in a 
coarse towel, and press the juice out; put it in a stew- 
pan and set it on a good fire ; add a pound of loaf-sugar, 
take the foam oft' with a skimmer a little before it boils, 
and boil about five minutes ; take from the fire, let cool, 
bottle it, corking well. It may be kept for months. 
Syrup with pears, pine-apple, etc., is made in the same way. 

Blanc-Mange,— Set on the fire in a block-tin saucepan 
one quart of milk with the rind of a lemon and two table- 
spoonfiils of sugar ; stir occasionally to melt the sugar. 



J? 



SWEET DISHES. 381 

Then mix about six ounces of corn-starcli with half a 
pint of milk in a bowl. As soon as the milk rises, take it 
from the fire ; take ojff with a skimmer the rind of lemon, 
and the skin that has formed on the top of the milk ; 
put the milk back on the fire ; turn the com-starch into 
it, stir continually and very fast till it is very thick. It 
will take hardly a minute to get thick. Turn into a 
mould wetted with cold water and put away to cool. 
When perfectly cold, serve with the following sauce : Mix 
well in a tin saucepan two ounces of sugar and ttvo yolks 
of eggs, then add half a pint of milk and mix again ; set 
on the fire ; stir continually, give one boil ; take off; let 
cool, and serve. 

Blanc-Manger, — ^Throw in boiling water two ounces 
of sweet almonds and the same of bitter ones, or pour 
boiling water over them, and then skin them as soon as the 
skin comes off easily. Pound them well with four- 
ounces of sugar, lay the whole in a pan with about a pint 
of water, set on the tire, and when on the point of boil- 
ing, take off and strain. Put in a tin saucepan about a 
pint of milk, the strained juice, an ounce of gelatin,' a 
little rind of lemon, and a litfle nutmeg, both grated ; set 
the whole on a moderate fire ; simmer just enough to 
melt the gelatin and mix it with the rest, and then strain. 
Wet a mould with cold water, put the mixture in^it, 
set it on ice, and serve when cool. It may be served 
with a sauce like the above. 

Charlotte Bunse. — Wipe a mould well, see that it is 
dry, and then line the bottom and sides with lady's-fingers, 
or sponge cake cut in pieces about the size of a lady's 
finger. .Commence by lining the bottom, placing the 
pieces so as to form a star or rosette, or plain, according 
to fancy. Then place some of them upright all around. 



382 SWEET DISHES. 

rather tight, and even with the top of the mould. Fill 
with cream, well whipped, sweetened, and flavored with 
essence ; place the mould on .ice, and when ready to serve, 
place a dish on it, turn upside down, remove the mould, 
and serve as it is, or decorated* 

To decorate, — Make a paper funnel, fill it with cream, 
or icing (sugar and white of egg worked), then spread some 
all over the top according to fency ; it is quickly done 
and is sightly. The mould may also be filled with some 
other cream ; as creme Ugere, crime cuite, etc. 

Charlotte a la CkantUly,'—li is a Charlotte made ex- 
actly as the above one, but filled with creme a la Chantilly, 

A la Polonaise, — Make a sponge cake, cut it trans- 
versely, dip each piece in cream (any kind) and then 
place them back where they were so as to give the cake 
its original form as near as possible. When thus re-formed, 
cover it with cream, dust with sugar, and decorate with 
any kind of sweetmeats. Besides the sweetmeats that are 
placed here and there all around, some currant-jelly may 
also be used to decorate. Place on ice for some time, and 
s(?rve. 

Italian, — Peel, quarteif, and core about a quart of 
pears and set them on a rather slow fire, in a saucepan 
with half a pint of white wine, sugar, cinnamon, and 
lemon-rind. While they are cooking, line a mould as for 
Charlotte JRusse, remove the lemon-rind, and fill the mould 
with the pears ; place it on ice when cool, turn over on a 
dish, remove the mould, decorate with icing, or cover en- 
tirely with apple-jelly, and serve. It is also made with 
genoise cake instead of sponge cake. 

Frangaise, — This is prepared and served like a Char- 
lotte JRusse, with the exception that it is filled with blane- 
manger or from^ge a la creme instead of cream. 



SWEET DISHES. 383 

Of Fruit — ^This is made of cherries or any kind of 
berries ; cherries must be stoned carefully. Dip the fruit 
in wine-jelly as soon as the latter is cool, but not firm, and 
line a mould with it. • By having the mould on ice it will 
be more easily done. Fill the mould with cream, as for 
Charlotte Husse, place on ice, and serve as soon as con- 
gealed. When the mould is taken from the ice, dip it 
in warm water a few seconds, place a dish over it, turn 
upside down, remove it, and serve immediately. A Char- 
lotte of fruit is sightly diough without decorations ; it re- 
quires some time to make it, but it is worth the trouble, 
being a handsome as well as a good dish. 

Another, — Line a mould as for the above. Put one 
ounce of gelatin in a bowl with about three tablespoonfuls 
of water and leave it so for about half an hour. Mix well 
together in a saucepan four yolks of eggs and three 
ounces of pulverized sugar, add about three tablespoonfuls 
of milk, and mix again ; set on the fire and stir for about 
three minutes, add the gelatin, stir again, give one boil, 
and put away to cool a little. Beat four whites of eggs 
to a stiff froth, turn the above mixture into them, mix 
gently a^in ; fill the mould with the whole, place on ice 
till perfectly cold. When cold, turn upside down on a 
dish, remove the mould, decorate as the preceding one, 
and serve cold. 

Cheese with Cream— r(Fromage a la Creme), — ^This is 
made in different ways ;• sometimes with soft curds only, 
or with curds and cream, or with cream only when very 
thick. Gelatin . dissolved in a little water may also be 
added. The curds or cream, or both, are beaten with an 
egg-beater, sweetened to taste with sugar, and flavored, 
with essence. To make it more sightly, when beaten^d 
flavored, it is moulded, placed on ice to make it fimf, and 



/ 



384 SWEET DISHES. 

then turned over a dish, the mould removed, and then 
served. Any kind of essence may be used to flavor it, 
such as yamWay fleur^cToranger, rose-water, violet, et<;. ; it 
may also be made with coffee, tea, chocolate. Grange^ 
lemon, etc. Put a few drops of very strong coffee, or tet^ 
or chocolate at the same time with the sugar and es8eiio& 

With orange or lemon, rub them on a piece of wgM; 
which you pound and use to sweeten the cheese. Thxea 
or more different ones may be made with a quart^^^ ids; 
for instance, flavor one third of' it with essence, a^dtter 
third with coffee or chocolate, and the other vpith oiange. 
The colors will be different also. It is an. ofxeeHent 
and refreshing entremets in summer-time. Cheese tnay 
also be flavored with pine-apple cut in very small dice* and 
mixed with it instead of essence. 

Compotes, (yrJams,—^How to make syrup for Compotes, 
— Common Syrup, — ^Put a pound of loaf-sugar in a crock- 
ery stewpan, with a pint of water, a wine-glass of brandy, 
and a pinch of well-grated cinnamon ; set it on a slow fire, 
boil gently for ten minutes, skimming oft* the foam ; then 
take from the fire and let cool ; bottle it ; cork it well and 
keep it to use when wanted. It may be kept f5r months 
in a cool and dry place. 

Stewed fruit of any kind is called either 
or jam. They are first peeled and cored and l'i4i*ffooked 
with sugar, water, and sometimes cinnamon, or cloves, 
both in powder and according to taste ; also lemon-juice 
or nnd to taste. Cinnamon agrees well with any kind of 
apples, but is not liked by every one in every kind of 
fruit. The fruits may be cooked and served whole, in 
halves, or quarters, or mashed, according to fancy and 
taste. The proportions of water and sugar are also ac- 
cording to taste, or according to the nature or state of 




• SWEET DISHES. 385 

the fruit. Sour apples require more, sugar than sweet 
ones, nnripe berries require more also than ripe ones. The 
preparation is very simple ; not being prepared to keep, 
they are served as' soon as cold. They may be served 
warm, but they are certainly not as good. When there 
is notAyrub (juice) enough, pour some of the above over 
thj^jjrV ^^"3ome apple-syrup. The peels and cores of 
th^ Z'^^^' iay be used to make syrup, together with 
t»i^e4^^rs. 

While peeling, coring, or tutting fruit, drop each in 
cold water, else it chang.es color and is unsightly. 

When cold, the compote may be piit in a mould ; turn 
over a dish, remove the mould, and serve. Several kinds 
may be served on the same dish as well as one ; being of 
different colors, the dish is more sightly, and quite as 
good. Loaf-sugar is the best. 

Instead of cooking them with water; etc., as directed 
above, put some syrup on the fire, and as soon as it boils, 
drop the prepared fruit in it, and boil slowly till done. 

Of Apples, — Quarter, peel, core, and put apples in a 
stewpan with a gill of water for two quarts, sugar and 
cinnamon to taste; when done, dish them, pour the juice 
"n the stewpan all over, and serve cold. If there is not 
juV>!''^' ^^ ^^^ some apple-syrup. 

Of Jipricots or Peaches.^-Take two quarts of apricots 
or peaches and cut them in two, remove the stones. Throw 
them in boiling water for two minutes and take off; drop 
in cold water and take out immediately, then skin them. 
Put about half a pint of water in a crockery pan or in a 
well-lined one, and at the first boil put the peaches in, 
with sugar to taste ; boil gently till done, turn the whole 
over a dish, and serve cold. If there is not juice or syrup 
enough, add a. little common syrup. 

17 



3S 



^m 



386 SWEET DISHES. • 

Of Blackberries, Currants, Raspberries, Strawberries, 
and other like Berries, — Prepare syrup of sugar, and when 
at the second, third, or fourth state, throw the berries in ; 
boil from one to five minutes, according to the Mnd, tate 
from the fire, and serve when cold. 

Of Cherries. — ^Cut off the stalks of the cberries about 
half their length, wash well and drain their "'NPut them 
in a stewpan in which ther^ is just enough ; * JVat the 
first degree to cover them ; boil slowly '\mc&t^ jd, 
serve. • 

Of Oranges, — ^Peel four oranges, and divide eact cap- 
pel without breaking it, and then throw them in syrup 
of sugar at the fourth or fifth degree, and boil slowly three 
or four minutes; take from the fire, let cooj, and serve. 

Of Pears, — ^Peel the pears, cut the stem half its 
length, put them in a stewpan with a little sugar, a few 
drops of lemon-juice, a pinch of cinnamon, and a little 
water. Set on a moderate fire, and at the first boiling add 
two gills of claret wine. Simmer till cooked, then put 
the pears only on a dish ; set the stewpan back on the fire, 
add to the juice in it about the same quantity of syrup 
of pears or of syrup of sugar at the third 'degree, boil 
fifteen minutes longer, pour the whole on the pears, and 
serve warm or cold. 

Of Lemons, — ^Peel the lemons, cut them in pieces, re- 
move the seeds, and proceed as for that of oranges, boil- 
ing a little longer. 

Of Pine-Apple, — ^Peel and cut in slices, put them in a 
crockery pan, with a little water and sugar, set xm a good 
fire, and finish and serve like apricots. 

Of Plums. — Throw the plums in boiling water, and 
take them out when half cooked ; put them in a crockery 
stewpan, with a little water and a little sugar ; simmer 




^ SWEET DISHES. 387 

till cooked, place them on a dish, pour some common 
syrup on, and serve when cold. 

Of Quinces, — Quarter, peel, and core the quinces; 
throw them in boiling water for five minutes ; take out 
and drain them ; put them in a crockery stewpan, with 
four ounces of sugar for every pound of quinces, a few 
drops of lemon-juice, a little water, and a pinch of grated 
cinnamon ; set it on the fire, simmer till cooked, place 
thgm^S^ dish, pour some common syrup on them, and 
serve cold- 

Of Chestnuts, — Roast about one quart of chestnuts, 
remove the skin and pith, lay them in a pan with half a 
gill of water and four ounces of sugar ; set on a slow fire, 
toss now and then till the sugar and water are absorbed or 
evaporated, turn over a dish, dust with sugar, and serve 
warm or cold. A few drops of lemon-juice may be added 
just before dusting with sugar. 

Cold Compote. — Wash strawberries and raspberries in 
cold water, drain dry, and place them on a dish. Pour 
boiling common syrup or boiling currant-jelly all over ; 
let cool, and serve. 

• Of Cranberries, — ^Put one pint of water in a tin sauce- 
pan, with six ounces of loaf-sugar, the rind of half a lemon, 
and set it on the fire ; boil down until, by dipping a spoon 
in it, it adheres to it. Then throw in it about one pint 
of cranberries; boil about twelve minutes, stirring now 
and then, take ofi^, let cool, and serve. 

Another, — ^After having boiled ten minutes in the same 
way as above, and with the same proportions of sugar, 
cranberries, etc., take from the fire, mash through a fine 
colander or sieve, put back on the fire, boil gently five 
minutes, let cool, and serve. 

Creams or Cremes au Citron (with Lemon), — ^Put one 



388 SWEET DISHES. 

pint of milk in a tin saucepan with the rind of a lemon; 
set on the fire, and as soon as it rises place an iron spoon 
in it and boil gently five minutes; take firom the fire. 
Mix well in a bowl four ounces of sugar with four yolks 
of eggs, then turn the milk into the bowl, little by little, 
stirring and mixing at the same time. Strain the mixture 
and put it in small cups ; put the cups in a pan of boiling ^ 
water, boil gently for about ten minutes, and put in the 
oven as it is, that is, leaving the cups in the water. Th^ 
cups must not. be more than half covered with water, else 
the water will fly into it. It takes from ten to fifteen 
minutes "to finish the cooking in the oven, according to the 
size of the cups. Take therii from the oven when the 
creme is rather firm, except a little spot in the middle, and 
which you ascertain by moving the cups. 

Any one with an ordinary amount of intelligence can 
make creams as well as the best cooks, after liaving tried 
only two or three times. When you know how to make 
one, you can make fifty, just by using different flavorings. 

Au Cafe {with Coffee), — ^The stronger the coffee the 
better the cream. The most economical way of making 
strong coffee is : when you intend to have cream wiA 
coffee for dinner, put the first drops that fall, when you 
make the coffee for breakfast, into a gkss ; put it inune- 
diately in cold water, and as soon as cool cover it with 
paper, which you tie around it with twine, and use when 
vou make the cream. 

Always use good fresh milk and fresh eggs. As soon 
a* the whites of the eggs are separated from the yolks, pnt 
them, together with the shells, on ice, and use the next 
day to clarify your jellies, or to make icing, etc. A little 
care is a great saving in the kitchen. 

Put one quart of milk in a milk-pan on the fire and 



«^\ W>%\ ^\<V?Vx XXX A Vvv\ ^\<'X1 \><K^ >^t^ >>;>i>^ V^Vi>> \%\^ 

\m\^ >X^ >\\AuU\\ ^x^s^ ^\ ^ ^/n\ ><o\v ,< vV ^^^ V; \xV.^ 
^^> >^N ^ <x\x W) rv \\s>^ <^\> x\ ^.^ r.t ^ >V>\\>^X'*,>\\- K\N;>Ni 

\vi \ xi \V* '^^ ^> * N,CV^A. ♦i V A 44 V. x xV V. A. <VV 

>S;^nV\ mS VJ^"" V V tv^-x ^ '^^ xxAVV^ x\ ^V\"^ xS: x\*^ <^^ 
Cn\XV\ ^''x^ *t\\ \^v; >V \\^\x >V A>fcV x^^N v<> ,x xVV xV v\ 

^ \ X 

i <" >^^ \^ v..^vx ^xx ,\\\ ^ >\:v\v X^" A<^ w <^ vN"^ '^* 

x'' W x^« 'N\vv A V ^ ''0 V'K^^ M \ iV^ v^nX vV"^' >► " >. 4^ 

NvsWk^t N'W*^ '»^\^"' >v \^» >v^^ ^ \ r V S » ^\ 

^\ t"\\ vv ^» \ :• C ,MV OjC^v ^^nv >v.^ \v» > ^ V x\\ v^ 

>\ rxv^„\K\x^ ^ » .1 v\v>>*-v^ * * v "sv'xi vvv u o\«.**ii'- 



tmmmi 



390 BWEET DISHES. 

pots or cups, place them in a hot but not boiling bain-marie^ 
take off as soon as it thickens, dust with fine white sugar, 
let cool, place on ice for about fifteen minutes, and use. 

With Orange, — ^TJse orange-rind, and proceed as for 
lemon-cream in every other particular. 

With Tea,^— Proceed with strong tea as for cream au 
cafe in every other particular. 

With JEssence, — ^Make cream au cafSj with the excep- 
tion that, instead of using coffee to flavor, you use a fe 
drops of vanilla, fose-water, orange-flower water,* violet, 
cinnamon, etc. — any kind of essence, to taste. 

With Cinnamon. — Beat well together in a bowl about 
an ounce of potato-starch, a teaspoonful of cinnamon, four 
eggs, four ounces of sugar, .and milk enough to make a 
rather liquid batter. Turn the mixture into a mould, which 
put into a pan of boiling water for fifteen minutes, then 
place in the oven till cooked. Serve cold. 

Quite, — Put two ounces of sugar in a tin pan with' two 
eggs, and mix well ; then add an ounce of flour, little by 
little, mixing the while ; then, in the same way, add also 
about a pint of boiled milk ; set on the fire, stir continually 
till it turns rather thick ; take ofi^, flavor with essence to 
taste, let cool, and serve or use for filling. 

Frangipane. — Set one pint of milk on the 'fire. Mix 
well together in another pan three tablespoonfiils of sugar, 
two of flour, three eggs, three macaroons crumbled, and 
as soon as the milk rises, turn the mixture into it, little by 
little, stirring and mixing the while ; keep stirring about 
three minutes ; take off, add a few drops of essence to 
flavor ; turn into a bowl, let cool, and it is ready for use. 
It may be made without the macaroons. 

With Almonds, — ^Make as the above, with the excep- 
tion that you use sweet almonds, chopped fine, instead of 
macaroons. 




SWEEt DISHES. 391 

With Hazelnuts, — ^Proceed as above, using hazel-nuts 
instead of almonds. 

JAgere. — ^Mix well together in a tin saucepan five yolks 
of eggs and five ounces of sugar ; add four tablespoonfuls 
of milk, and mix again. Set the pan on the fire, and stir 
.continually till it turns rather thick ; take ofi", and add a 
few drops of essence ; turn into a plate or dish and let 
cool. When cold, beat five whites of eggs to a stiff froth ; 
have somebody to pour in the whites, and, while you 
afe-^ill beating, about two tablespoonfuls of the cold 
mixture, and stop beating. Then turn the rest of the mix- 
ture into the whites, and mix the whole together gently ; 
do not stir too much, but move round and round with 
a wooden spoon, and it is done. If it is stirred too much, 
it may become too liquid. It makes an excellent and 
light cream. 

Patissiere, — ^Beat four whites of , eggs to a stiff froth, 
and then mix about one ounce of pulverized sugar with 
them. Put four yolks of eggs in a bowl with half a gill 
of milk, and beat well till thoroughly mixed. Put in a 
saucepan about two ounces of pulverized sugar, with a tea- 
spoonful of potato-starch (fecula), and two-thirds of a gill 
of milk, and mix the whole well ; then add the eggs and 
milk, and beat the whole well with an egg-beater. Set 
the pan on a rather slow fire, stir continually with a wooden 
spoon till it turns rather thick, and then turn the four 
whites and sugar into the pan also, little by little, stirring 
the while, and take off when thoroughly mixed. As soon 
as off the fire, add essence to flavor, and about one-quarter 
of an ounce of gelatine, dissolved in tepid water. Serve, 
or use to fill when cold. 

Menversee. — Make cream with tea, coffee, or chocolate, 
and instead of turning the mixture into cream-pots, turn 



392 SWEET DISHES. 

it into a mould lined witli burnt sugar ; place the mould 
in boiling water for about fifteen minutes, place it in the 
oven to finish the cooking, turn over a dish, remove the 
mould, and serve cold. To line the mould, put two or 
three tablespoonfuls of pulverized sugar in it; set it on 
a slow fire, and when the sugar is melted and turning 
brown, move the mould round and round to spread the 
sugar all over ; then put the cream in it. 

Sweet Cream, — ^We mean here the oily substance which* 
forms a scum on milk ; also called whipped cream. It ia^ 
used to make Charlotte Eusse, to fill meringiieSy choux, or 
'cream-cakes, etc. 

Put a pint of good thick cream in a bowl, and if the 
weather is warm, place the bowl on ice for half an hour, 
then beat the cream with all egg-beater till stiff and thick. 
If the cream does not become stiff after having beaten it 
fifteen or twenty minutes at the longest, it is not good, or 
it is too warm. Good cream may rise and become stiff in 
five minutes. When beaten, add to it about four ounces 
of pulverized sugar, which you mix gently with it, not 
stirring too much ; add also a few drops of essence to 
flavor. If wanted very stiff, add also, after the .sugar, half 
an ounce of gelatin, melted in a little tepid water. When 
beaten and mixed, if not used immediately, it must be put 
on ice. 

Chantilly, — It is the above cream flavored with fieur 
6^ orange (orange-flower water), or with essence of violet. 

Ice Cream, — Made with cream it is richer than with 
mUk. With eggs it is better and richer than without, and 
those that advocate it without eggs, either have no palate, 
or do not know how to use them in making it 

The addition of starch, fecula, arrow-root^ flour, meal, 
etc., spoils it. The proportions are, to a quart of milk or 



h 



SWEET DISHES. 393 

cream: from four to six eggs; from eight to fourteen 
ounces of pulverized sugar ; essence, or chocolate, or fruit- 
jelly to flavor and color. Our receipt is for six eggs and 
fourteen ounces of sugar to a quart of milk. 

Set the milk on the fire, and when it comes to a boil, 
mix well half the sugar and the essence with six yolks 
and three whites of eggs ; beat the three other whites sep- 
arately to a stiff froth. As soon as the milk rises, take it 
from the fire, put half the sugar in it and stir to melt it, 
Th^n turn the mixture into it also, little by little, beating 
the while with an egg-beater ; set on the fire, and take off 
at the first boiling. While on th^ fire it must be beaten 
gently, as, if it is allowed to boil, the eggs may curdle. 
As soon as off the fire, mix. the three whites with the rest, 
beating with an egg-beater, just enough to mix the whole 
well ; put in cold, salt water to cool, and then freeze. 

The "smaller the ice is broken and mixed with plenty 
of ro(Jk-salt, the quicker it freezes. 

Custard. — Put four yolks of eggs in a bowl, then 
sprinkle flour on them, little by little, stirring and mix- 
ing well the while with a wooden spoon, and when the 
mixture is rather thick, stop sprinkling flour, but sprinkle 
milk, and mix again in the same way till the mixture is 
liquid; add sugar and essence to taste, beat the four 
whites to a stiff froth, mix them gently with the rest ; 
butter a mould well, fill it about two-thirds full with the 
mixture, and set in a warm but not quick oven. Serve as 
soon as out of the oven. • If intended to be served cold, 
omit the whites of eggs. 

fritters, — ^These are made with.every kind of fruit, when 
ripe, peeled and stoned j or cored when necessary, and accord- 
ing to the kind. The fruit is used whole, such as strawber- 
ries and the like ; or in ^ices, such as apples, pears, etc. ; 
17* 



\ 

388 SWEET DISHES. 

pint of milk in a tin saucepan with tlie rind of a lemon ; 
set on the fire, and as soon as it rises place an iron spoon 
in it and boil gently five minutes; take from the fire. 
Mix well in a bowl four ounces of sugar with four yolks 
of eggs, then turn the milk into the bowl, little by little, 
stirring and mixing at the same time. Strain the mixture 
and put it in small cups ; put the cups in a pan of boiling 
water, boil gently for about ten minutes, and put in the 
oven as it is, that is, leaving the cups in the water. Th^.,^. 
cups must not. be more than half covered with water, else"^ 
the water will fly into it. It takes from ten to fifteen 
minutes to finish the cooking in the oven, according to the 
size of the cups. Take therii from the oven when the 
creme is rather firm, except a little spot in the middle, and 
which you ascertain by moving the cups. 

Any one with an ordinary amount of intelligence can 
make creams as well as the best cooks, after having tried 
only two or three times. When you know how to make 
one, you can make fifty, just by using different flavorings. 

Au Cafe {with Coffee), — ^The stronger the coffee the 
better the cream. The most economical way of making 
strong coffee is : when you intend to have cream wiA 
coffee for dinner, put the first drops that fall, when you ' 
make the coffee for breakfast, into a glass ; put it imme- 
diately in cold water, and as soon as cool cover it with 
paper, which you tie around it with twine, and use when 
you make the cream. 

Always use good fresh milk and fresh eggs. As soon 
aS' the whites of the eggs are separated from the yolks, put 
them, together with the shells, on ice, and use the next 
day to clarify your jellies, or to make icing, etc. A little 
care is a great saving in the kitchen. 

Put one quart of milk in a milk-pan on the fire and 



SWEET DISHES. 389 

tate off as soon as it rises. While the milk is on the fire, 
mix well together in a bowl eight yolks of eggs with half 
a pound of sugar, and coffee to flavor ; then tura the milk 
into the mixture, little by little, stirring the while ; when 
the whole is thoroughly mixed, strain it. Put the mixture 
in cream-cups, place the cups in a pan of boiling water — 
enough water to half cover them ; boil slowly for about 
ten minutes, put the pan and cups in a moderately-heated 
oven, and take ofi* when done. It takes from ten to fifteen 
linuteS to finish the cooking, according to the size *of the 
cups. It is done when the whole is solidified except a 
little spot in the centre, which, by moving the cups, will 
shake somewhat. Serve cold. 

With Burnt Sugar. — ^Put two ounces of sugar in a 
small tin pan, witH a tablespoonful of water, set on the 
fire, and boil till burnt and of a light-brown color ; take 
off, and put it in a stewpan with a pint of milk, four 
ounces of white sugar, a few drops of rose or orange- 
flower water ; boil ten minutes, stirring occasionally ; take 
from the fire, beat the yolks of two eggs, and one entire, 
put in the pan and mix the whole well, then strain, after 
which you put the mixture in small cream-pots for that 
purpose; place them in a hot but not boiling bain-mariey 
and as soon as it thickens take them out, dust them with 
fine white sugar, let cool ; place them on ice for about fif- 
teen minutes, and then it is ready to be served. 

With Chocolate. — ^Put in a stewpan and on a moderate 
fire six ounces of chocolate, three tablespoonfuls of water, 
three ounces of white sugar, stir now and then with a 
wooden spoon till melted ; then pour in it, little by little, 
a quart of good fresh milk ; boil ten minutes, take from 
the fire, and mix in it one egg well beaten with the yolks 
of five others ; strain tly'ough a fine sieve, put in cream- 



pots or cups, place them in a hot but not boiling bain-mark, 
take off as soon as it thickens, dust with fine white sngar, 
let cool, place on ice for about fifteen minutes, and use. 

With Orange, — Use orange-rind, and proceed as for 
lemon-eream in every other particular. 

With JVa.— Proceed with strong tea as for cream au 
cafi in every other particular. 

With Essence. — Make cream au eafi, with the excep- 
tion that, instead of using coffee to flavor, you use a fe^ 
drops of vanilla, ft>se-water, orange-flower water, viole^^''^ 
cinnamon, etc, — any kind of essence, to taste. 

With CinnoMtyii. — Beat well together in a bowl about 
an ounce of potato-starch, a teaspoonfiil of cinnamon, four 
eggs, four ounces of sugar,. and milk enough to make a 
rather liquid batter. Turn the mixture into a mould, which 
put into a pan of boihug water for fifteen minnl 
place in the oven till cooked. Serve cold. 

Cuite. — Put two ounces of sugar in a tin pan i 
eggs, and mix well ; then add an ounce of fionr, ] 
little, mixing the while; then, in tjie same way, i 
about a pint of boiled milk ; set on the fire, stir coi 
till it turns rather thick; take off, flavor with es 
taste, let cool, and serve or use for filling. 

Frangipane. — Set one pint of mUk on the'fit 
well together in another pan ttu«e tablespoonftila c 
two of flour, three eggs, three macaroons crumb 
as soon as the milk lises, turn the mixture into it, 
little, stiiTing and mixing the while ; keep stinir 
three minutes; take off, add a few drops of ea: 
flavor; turn into a bowl, let cool, and it is ready 
It may be made without the macaroons. 

With Almonds. — Make as the above, with tli 
tion that yon use sweet almonds, e 
macaroons. 



* 



I 




SWEEt DISHES. 391 

With Hazel-^uts, — ^Proceed as above, using hazel-nuts 
instead of almonds. 

JAghre, — ^Mix well together in a tin saucepan five yolks 
of eggs and five ounces of sugar ; add four tablespoonfuls 
of milk, and mix again. Set the pan on the fire, and stir 
.continually till it turns rather thick ; take ofi^, and add a 
few drops of essence ; turn into a plate or dish and let 
cool. When cold, beat five whites of eggs to a stift' froth ; 
have somebody to pour ia the whites, and, while you 
beating, about two tablespoonfuls of the cold 
mixture, and stop beating. Then turn the rest of the mix- 
ture into the whites, and mix the whole together gently ; 
do not stir too much, but move round and round with 
a wooden spoon, and it is done. If it is stirred too much, 
it may become too liquid. It makes an excellent and 
light cream. 

JPatissiere. — ^Beat four whites of , eggs to a stift* froth, 
and then mix about one ounce of pulverized sugar with 
them. Put four yolks of eggs in a bowl with half a gill 
of milk, and beat well till thoroughly mixed. Put in a 
saucepan about two ounces of pulverized sugar, with a tea- 
spoonful of potato-starch (fecula), and two-thirds of a gill 
of milk, and mix the whole well ; then add the eggs and 
milk, and beat the whole well with an egg-beater. Set 
the pan on a rather slow fire, stir continually with a woodeir 
spoon till it turns rather thick, and then turn the four 
whites and sugar into the pan also, little by little, stirring 
the while, and take off when thoroughly mixed. As soon 
as off the fire, add essence to flavor, and about one-quarter 
of an ounce of gelatine, dissolved in tepid water. Serve, 
or use to fill when cold. 

Menversee, — Make cream with tea, coffee, or chocolate, 
and instead of turning the mixture into cream-pots, turn 






390 SWEET DISHES. 

pots or cups, place them in a hot but not boiling bain-marie, 
take off as soon as it thickens, dust with fine white sugar, 
let cool, place on ice for about fifteen minutes, and use. 

With Orange, — ^Use orange-rind, and proceed as for 
lemon-cream in every other particular. 

With T'ea.— Proceed with strong tea as for cream au 
cafe in every other particular. 

With Essence, — Make cream au cafe, with the excep- 
tion that, instead of using coffee to flavor, you use a few 
drops of vanilla, fbse-water, orange-flower water,* violet, 
cinnamon, etc.— any kind of essence, to taste. 

With (7m»amo7i.— Beat well together in a bowl about 
an ounce of potato-starch, a teaspoonfiil of cinnamon, four 
eggs, four ounces of sugar, .and milk enough to make a 
rather liquid batter. Turn the mixture into a mould, which 
put into a pan of boiling water for fifteen minutes, then 
place in the oven till cooked. Serve cold. 

Quite, — ^Put two ounces of sugar in a tin pan with'two 
eggs, and mix well ; then add an ounce of flour, little by 
little, mixing the while ; then, in the same way, add also 
about a pint of boiled milk ; set on the fire, stir continually 
till it turns rather thick ; take off, flavor with essence to 
taste, let cool, and serve or use for filling. 

Frangipane, — Set one pint of milk on the 'fire. Mix 
well together in another pan three tablespoonfiils of sugar, 
two of flour, three eggs, three macaroons crumbled, and 
as soon as the milk rises, turn the mixture into it, little by 
little, stirring and mixing the while ; keep stirring about 
three minutes; take off, add a few drops of essence to 
flavor ; turn into a bowl, let cool, and it is ready for use. 
It may be made without the macaroons. 

With Almonds, — ^Make as the above, with the excep- 
tion that you use sweet almonds, chopped fine, instead of 
macaroons. 



SWEEt DISHES. 391 

With Hazel-nuts, — ^Proceed as above, using hazel-nuts 
instead of almonds. 

TAgere, — Mix well together in a tin saucepan five yolks 
of eggs and five ounces of sugar ; add four tablespoonfuls 
of milk, and mix again. Set the pan on the fire, and stjr 
.continually tiU it turns rather thick ; take off", and add a 
few drops of essence ; turn into a plate or dish and let 
cool. When cold, heat five whites of eggs to a stiff" froth ; 
have somebody to pour in the whites, and, while you 
beating, about two tablespoonfuls of the cold 
mixture, and stop beating. Then turn the rest of the mix- 
ture into the whites, and mix the whole together gently ; 
do not stir too much, but move round and round with 
a wooden spoon, and it is done. If it is stirred too much, 
it may become too liquid. It makes an excellent and 
light cream. 

Patissiere, — Beat four whites of , eggs to a stiff froth, 
and then mix about one ounce of pulverized sugar with 
them. Put four yolks of eggs in a bowl with half a gill 
of milk, and beat well till thoroughly mixed. Put in a 
saucepan about two ounces of pulverized sugar, with a tea- 
spoonful of potato-starch (fecula), and two-thirds of a gill 
of milk, and mix the whole well ; then add the eggs and 
milk, and beat the whole well with an egg-beater. Set 
the pan on a rather slow fire, stir continually with a wooden 
spoon till it turns rather thick, and then turn the foui 
whites and sugar into the pan also, little by little, stirring-- 
the while, and take off when thoroughly mixed. As soon 
as off the fire, add essence to flavor, and about one-quarter 
of an ounce of gelatine, dissolved in tepid water. Serve, 
or use to fill when cold. 

Menversee, — Make cream with tea, coffee, or chocolate, 
and instead of turning the mixture into cream-pots, turn 



4:00 . SWEET DISHES. 

dissolve the sugar, and turn the mixture into a mould 
through a strainer ; place on ice, and serve as the above 
jellies. 

Souffles, — Put in a bowl four tablespoonfuls of potato- 
starch witli three yolks of eggs, one ounce of butter, and a 
few drops of essence to flavor. Turn into it, little by lit- 
tle, stirring the while, about three gills of nailk ; set on the 
fire, stir continually, and take off at the first boiling. Stir 
continually but slowly. As soon as cold, beat three yolks 
of eggs with a tablespoonful of cold water, and mix them^ -• ^^^ 
with the rest Beat four whites of eggs to a. stiff froth, 
and mix them also gently and slowly. Butter a mould 
well, fill it about two-thirds full, and bake in a warm but 
not quick oven (about 300*^ Fahr.). Besides being flavored 
with essence, souffles inAj be flavored with coffee, lemon, 
orange, etc., according to taste. Generally, souffles are 
served under the name of the object used to flavor them, 
such as souffle au cafe (souffle flavored with strong coffee), 
etc. They are all made in the same way as the above one, 
with the exception that 4ihey are flavored with strong coffee 
as above, and used instead of essence, or strong tea, choco- 
late, etc., or with a little jelly of different fruit, or with 
roasted chestnuts well pounded, instead of potato-starcli, 
etc. 

A hundred different kinds of souffles can be easily made 
by following the above directions. 

Apples, fried. — ^Peel and cut in small dice, dropping 
them in cold water till the whole is ready. Then fry with 
a little butter till about half cooked, when add a little 
water and sugar to taste ; finish the cooking, take from 
the fire ; beat a yolk of egg with a teaspoonful of cold 
water and mix it with the apples ; serve warm. Proceed 
in the same way with pears. 



SWEET DISHES. 401 

Peaches baked, — ^Cut peaclies in two, remove the stone, 
and with a paste-cutter cut some slices of bread, and place 
them in a buttered bakepan with half of a peach on each, 
the skin downward ; dust well with sugar, put a piece of 
butter the size of a kidi^y-bean on each, place in a rather 
slow oven ; dish when cooked, turn the juice over, if any ; 
if none, a little syrup of pears, and serve warm. » 

Do the same with apricots, plums, and slices of pine- 
apples. The slices of pine-apples may be soaked in Jdrsch- 
wasser for twenty-four hours before using them. 

Prunes, stewed, — Wash Ihem in cold water if necessary. 
Soak them in tepid water for about two hours, and set the 
whole on the fire ; boil gently till half done, when add 
sugar to taste, a gill of claret wine to half a pound of prunes 
and serve either warm or cold when done. If the water 
boils away too much, add more. 

Currants, JBlackberries, or other Fruit, for Dessert, — 
Beat well the white of an egg with a little water ; dip the 
fruit in, and roll it immediately in some fine-crushed sugar; 
place it on a dish, and leave it thus five or six hours, and 
serve. 

A more sightly and exquisite plate of dessert than a 
plate of currants dressed thus, cannot be had. 

Besides all our receipts, any kind of fruit may be served 
for dessert, according to the season; also any kind of 
cheese ; also fruits preserved ifi liquor. 

JBerries with Milk or Cream, — Nearly every kind of 
berries, when clean, maybe served with milk or cream, and 
sugar to taste. 

With Liquor, — ^They may Slso be served with brandy, 
ruin, kirschwasser, whiskey, etc., and sugar. . 

Marmalades, or Preserves of Fruits — Of Apricots or 
Pleaches, — ^Boil two pounds of peaches for a minute, take 



402 SWEET DISHES. 

off and drop them immediately iq cold water. Drain and 
skin immediately, cut in two and remove the stone. Crack 
two-thirds of the stones and throw the kernels in boiling 
water; leave them in till the skin comes off easily; 
skin them well and cut them ^ smaU pieces, length- 
wise. Lay the peaches in a pan, with about a pound and 
' a half of.sugar, set on the fire, boil about twenty minutes, 
stirring the while with a wooden g>oon ; a few minutes be- 
fore taking from the fire, put also the kernels iu the pau ; 
then turn in pots or jars as soon as off the fire. Cover 
well when cold, and keep in a 3ty and cool (but not cold) 
closet. 

Of Plums. — Proceed as for the above. 

Of JPears and Quinces. — Quarter, peel, and core the 
fruit, put it in a pan, and proceed for the rest as directed 
for peaches, except that you use sweet almonds instead of 
kernels. 

Of Blackberries J Cherries^ Currants, Raspberries, and 
other like. Berries. — Wash the fruit in cold water, drain, 
dry, and mash it through a sieve placed over a saucepan ; 
when the juice and pulp are in the pan add the same weight 
of loaf-sugar as that of juice, which is easily ascertained by 
. weighing the pan first ; set on the fire, skim it carefully ; it 
takes about half an hour to cook ; then put in pots and let 
cool.; cut a piece of white paper the size of the inside of 
the pot, dip it in brandy, f>ut it over the fruit, cover the 
pots; and place them in a dry and cool closet 

Of Chapes.- — Select well-ripened grapes and pick the 
berries. Put them in a thick towel, and press the juice 
out, which you put in a copper or brass saucepan, set on a 
good fire, and boil till about half reduced. Skim off the 
* scum, and stir now and then while it is on the fire. Then 
add about half a pound of loaf-sugar to a pound of juice. 



• 8WEET DISHES. 403 

boil again fifteen or twenty minutes, take . off, put in pots 
or jars, cover or cork well when cold, an4 put away in a 
dark and cool closet. 

Candied or Comfited Fruit, — ^The best state of the 
fruit to be candied is just when commencing to ripen or a 
littfe before. It must be picked in dry weather, and be 
sound ; the least stain is enough to spoil it soon after it is 
preserved. 

Peaches, — Make a cut on the side of the fruit and re- 
move the stone without bruising it ; then skin it carefully 
and drop it in a pan of cold water. When they are all in, 
set on the fire, boil gently till they float. • There must b,e 
much more water than is necessary to cover them, in order 
to see easily when they come to the surface. Then take 
them off carefully, with a skimmer, and drop them in cold 
water and drain. When drained, put them in a pan, cover 
them with syrup of sugar after it is skimmed and clarified. 
{See Syrup of Sugab.) The syrup naust be boiling when 
turned over the fruit. Set on the fire, give one boil only, 
and turn the whole into a bowl, which you cover with 
paper, and leave thus twelve or fifteen hours. After that 
time, drain, put the syrup on the fire, the peaches in the 
bowl, and at the first boiling of the syrup, turn it over the 
fruit, cover the- bowl with paper, and leave about as long, 
that is, twelve or fifteen hours. 

Eepeat the same process three times more, in all five 
times. The last time the syrup must be at the first state 
as described for syrup of sugar. Inexperienced persons 
will do well to try at first with a few fruits, and go through 
the whole process, after which it will be comparatively easy. 

Every one is awkward in doing a thing for the first 
time, and does not do it well, however easy or simple it 
may be. That is the reason why societies of farmers make 



404 SWEET DISHES. 

better preservea than other people; they teach one an- 
other ; and be^des, no one is allo^ved to touch the froit 
before having seen it done several times. 

Candied fruit, as well as preserves, get spoiled by fer- 
mentation, if not cooked enough ; by moisture, if kept in 
a damp place ; or by heat, if kept in a warm place. 

When the last process has been gone through, leave 
the friiit in the bowl about twenty-four hours ; then ^ut it 
in jars, cover air-tight, and put away in a dry and cool 
closet. It may also be drained, dried on a riddle in a warm- 
place, and kept in boxes. A wooden riddle or screen is 
better than a metal one. They may also be put in decan- 
ters, covered with brandy or other liquor, and corked well. 
When preserved in brandy, it is not necessary to remove 
the stone ; they may be covered with half syrup and half 
brandy. 

Plums. — Pick them just before commencing to ripen, 
and cut the stem half way. When clean, but neither 
stoned nor skinned, prick them around the stem with a 
fork, drop them in cold water, set on the fire, add a gill of 
vinegar to three quarts of water, and take from the fire as 
soon as they float. Drain, put them in a bowl, pour boil- 
ing syrup of sugar over them, and proceed as directed for 
peaches, that is, cover and pour the syrup on them ^^Q 
times in all. They are kept like peaches also, either in 
jars, dried, or in brandy. 

Pears, — ^After being peeled and the stem cut off half 
way, they may be preserved whole or in quarters. In 
peeling them, they must be dropped in cold water with a 
little lemon-juice to keep them white. They are picked 
just before- commencing to ripen. When ready, put cold 
water and the juice of a lemon to every two quarts in a 
deep pan, and drop the pears in, set on the ^e and boil 



SWEET DISHES. 405 

gently till well done ; take off, drain and drop in cold 
water, which you change two or three times and without 
stopping ; then drain again, place them in a large bowl, 
and then proceed as for peaches. They are kept like 
peaches also. 

Apples, — Proceed as" for pears, except that apples are 
cooked much quicker. 

Pine-Apples. — Peel, slice, and drop the fruit in cold 
water ; add a little sugar, set on the fire and boil gently 
till done, when drain and drop in cold water and drain 
again. Put them in a bowl, and proceed as for peaches 
for the rest, with the exception that they are kept in jars 
only, and not dried or put in brandy. 

Chestnuts, — Skin the chestnuts and put them in cold 
water on the fire, and take off when tender ; then remove 
the under skin or white envelope or pith. Place them in 
a bowl, and proceed as for peaches for the rest 

Oranges, — ^Drop oranges in boiling water and take off 
when the rind is tender, and when a darning-needle can 
be run through it easily. Drain and drop them in cold 
water. After* two or three hours drain, cut in shoes, and 
put them in a bowl ; then proceed as for peaches, except 
that they are kept in jars only. 

Quinces. — ^Peel, quarter, and core quinces just before 
they commence ripening, drop in boiling water ; drain them 
when done, and drop them immediately in cold water. , 
As soon as cold, take them off, drain and put them in a 
bowl. For the rest, proceed as for peaches, with the ex- 
ception that they are only kept in jars, but neither dried 
nor put in brandy. 

To Peesbrvb in Brandt.— Besides the dried fruits 
above described, several may be preserved in brandy, with- 
out being cooked and soaked in syrup of sugar. 



406 BWEET DISHES. 

Cherries, — ^Pick them when fdlly ripe, see that tliey 
are clean, and put them in decanters with cloves, pieces 
of cinnamon, and entirely covered with brandy ; cover well, 
but do not cork, and leave thus two weeks, at the end of 
which, place a colander over a vessel and empty the de- 
canters into it ; pass the liquor through a jelly-bag, mix it 
with some syrup of sugar at the sepond degree, turn over 
the fruit which you cover with it, and cork the decanters 
well when perfectly cold. Keep in a dark, cool, and dry. 
place. 

Do the same with strawberries and other like fruro 

Fruit Jellies — With Apples or Quinpes. — ^Peel, core, 
and cut in small pieces *wo quarts of good apples or 
quinces, lay them in a stewpan with a clove well pounded, 
and the juice of half a l^aaon ; cover wilji water, set on a 
moderate fire, and boil slowly till well cooked. Turn into 
a jelly-bag, or a thick towel under which you place a 
vessel to receive the juice, and when it is all out, put it in 
a stewpan with three-quarters of a pound of sugar to 
every pound of juice ; boil to a jelly. 

As soon as done put it in pots or jars, let cool, cut a 
piece of white paper the size of the inside of the pot, dip 
it in brandy, put it over the jelly, cover the pot well, and 
place in a dry, cool closet, but not too cold. What re- 
mains in the bag may be used to make a compote. Watch 
. the process carefully, skimmer in hand, to skim off the 
scum, and stir now and then, lest it should bum. 

With Apricots, Peaches^ Plums, etc, — ^After having 
taken the stones out, cut them in four pieces, and proceed 
as for apple-jelly above in every other particular. 

With Blackberries, Currants, Crapes, Haspherries, or 
other like Berries, — ^Put the weU-ripened berries in a coarse 
towel and squeeze all the juice out of them, which you 



SWEET DISHES. 407 

^nt into a stevpan with as many pounds of loaf-sugar 
as there are of juice, and finish as directed for apple-jelly. 
A. little rum or essence of rose, or any other, according to 
taste, may be added just before taking from the fire. 

launch,- — ^Put a saltspoonful of black tea in a crockery 
pot, ^th one clove, a little cinnamon, and the rind of a 
lemon cut in pieces; pour on the whole half a pinj of boil- 
ing watei'; let it remain thus five minutes, and strain. 
Put a bottle of rum or brandy in a crockery vessel, with 
~ twelve ounces of loaf-Sugar, set the rum or brandy on fire, 
and let bum till it stops.^ Then mix tea and rum together, 
and it is ready for use. It is drunk cold or warm, ac- 
cording to taste. When wanted warm, if made previous- 
ly, set it on a moderate fire, in a tin or crockery kettle. 
It keeps very well if carefully bottled and corked 
' when cold. 

Another way to make it is to mix the rum or brandy 
with the tea without burning it. It is warmed, used, and 
kept like the above, ^e quantity of water may be re- 
duced or augmented, according to taste, and so also the 
. sugar. 

Another, — Grate the rind of a lemon and of two 
oranges on a piece of sugar, the yellow part only, and put 
it in a bowl with cold water to dissolve it ; then add two 
gills of pine-apple syrup, essence of vanilla, a pint of claret 
wine, a pint of Catawba, Sauteme, or Rhine wine, a pint 
of Champagne, and a gill of brandy ; sweeten to taste ; 
strain, put on ice for some time, and serve. 

Another, — Put a pouiid of sugar in a bowl with a gill 
of water to dissolve it; then add the juice of three 
oranges, a little rind grated, a bottle of Champagne and 
one of Catawba, or Sauteme wine ; strain, place on ice for 
some time, and serve cold. 



4:08 SWEET DISHES. 

* Roman Punch. — Make iced lemon with one quart of 
juice, same of S3rrup as directed, then mix with it the juice 
of four oranges, some lemon and orange rind grated, an^ 
about three gills of rum (or according to taste) ; also, if 
liked, the preparation used for iced fruit. TJien put the 
mixture in the freezer, stir while freezing, and serve. It 
must not be frozen hard, as it is better when served rather 
liquid and frothy. It may be made with a^y other liquor, 
if preferred. 

Punch is served either after the entrees or aftor the 
releves of fish, according to taste. 



PASTRY. 



Of all the branches of the science and art of cooking, 
pastry, if not the most diflBcult, requires the greatest care. 
An inferior piece of meat makes an inferior dish, but still 
it can be eaten without danger : but inferior pastry can 
hardly be eaten ; or, if eaten, it is indigestible. We will 
recommend our readers to be very careful about propor- 
tions; it would not make a great difference for some 
kinds, but for others, putting too much or too little of one 
or more things would certainly result in failure. It Is 
very important to have good materials. New flour is very 
inferior for pastry ; it must have been ground for at least 
three months. Always keep it in bags, and in a dry and 
well-ventUated place. Sift before using it Use fresh 
eggs, good butter, and good pulverized sugar. 

The most important of all is the oven, for, supposing 
that you have used good materials, have mixed them well, 
if not properly baked, every thing is lost, materials and 
labor. Supposing that you have a good oven, there is 
still a difficulty — and if the last, not the least — the degree 
of heat. Some require a quick oven, as puff-paste, cJioux^ 
etc. ; others a warm one, and others a slow oven, as me- 
ringues, biscuits, etc. By putting the hand in the oven 
you can tell if it is properly heated, but it requires ex- 

18 



410 PABTEY. 

perience, and even practitioners are -often mistaken ; there- 
fore, the easiest way is to have a thermometer in the oven. 
It may be placed in the oven of every stove or range ; it 
is only necessary to bore a hole on the top of the range 
or stove, reaching the oven, and have a thermometer with 
the bulb inclosed in a brass sheath, perforated, long 
enough to reach the oven, and of the size of the hole 
][)ored— the glass tube being above the top of the range." 

Pastes. — There are several kinds of paste. Puff-paste 
is the most important ; it can be made very rich, rich, aad 
less so ; and several hundred diffeirent cakes can be made 
with it Small cakes are called petits fours. 

The next in importance is the p&te-a-chaux ; then the 
paste for meat-pies, sometimes called pd,te hrisSe. 

Puff-paste requires care, but is easily made ; pdte-a- 
choux must be well worked. 

Puff-paste. — To make good puff-paste, good flour and 
butter, free from salt or sour milk, are indispensable. 
It must be made in a cool place. Take half a pound of 
good butter and knead it well in a bowl of cold water; if 
fresh and not salt, the kneading will take the sour milk 
out of it ; if salty, it will remove the salt, then put it in 
another bowl of cold water and leave it till it is perfectly 
firm, and then use. When the butter is ready, put half a 
pound of flour on the paste-board or marble, make a hole 
in it, in which you put a pinch of salt, and cold water 
enough to make a rather stiff dough. It requires about 
half a pint of water, knead well, make a kind of ball with 
the dough, and put it on a corner of your marble or paste- 
board. Take the butter from the water and knead it on 
the board, to press all the water out of it Give it tbe 
shape of a large sausage ; dredge the board slightly with 
flour, roll the butter over only once, as it most take very' 



PASTEY. 411 

Kttle of it, dredge both ends of the piece of butter with . 
flour also, then by putting one end on the board and press- 
ing on the other end with your hands, you will flatten it 
of a rather round shape, and till of about half an inch in 
thickness. Put it thus on the comer of the board also. 
Immediately after having prepared the butter, take the 
dough and roll it down, of a round fonn also, and till 
large enough to envelop the butter in it easily. Re- 
member that during the whole operation of folding and 
"rolling the paste down, you must dust the marble or paste- 
board with flour, very slightly and often ; do the same on 
the top of the paste. It is done in order to prevent the 
past» from adhering to the board or to the rolling-pin. It 
must be dusted slightly, so that the paste cannot, absorb 
much of it, as it would make it tough. Have a slab of 
marble or slate ; it is much easier than wood, and cooler. 
When the dough is spread, place the butter right on 
the middle of it Turn one side of the dough over the 
butter; covering it a little more than half way ; do the same 
with the opposite side, the dough lapping over that of the 
first side turned ; do the same with the side towai'd you, 
and also with the side opposite. Dough stretching easily 
when pulled, and contracting easily when let loose after 
having pulled it, you have now still four comers of the 

• 

dough to bring over the butter and in the same way as 
above, and by doing which, you give to the whole a some- 
what round form, and also have the butter perfectly 
enveloped in the dough. Place the rolling-pin on the mid- ' 
die of the paste, horizontally, and press gently on it so as 
to make a furrow ; do the same froin place to place, on the 
whole surface, making furrows about an inch apart. Re- 
peat the process again, this time placing the rolling-pin 
right on the top of each elevated line ; and again, repeat 



412 PASTBY. 

it a third time, also placing the pin on each elevated line. 
Now do exactly the same contrariwise. Then, roll the 
paste down, gently, evenly, to a thickness of about one 
fourth of an inch, and of a rectangular shape. . Fold it in 
three by turning over one-third of its length toward the 
other end, and thus covering another third of it ; fold or 
turn over the remaining third, so as to cover the. first third 
turned over. EoU it down again of about the same 
thickness as above, but without making ftirrows in it; 
give it also the same rectangular shape, taking care to 
make the length of what was the width, t. e. extending it 
the longer way in an opposite direction to that of the 
first time, so that the ends will be what the sides were. 
Fold in three as before, put it on a plate and set in a re- 
frigerator for from ten to twenty minutes. Take hold of 
it again, roll down as above, fold in the same way also, 
and put away for ten minutes. You roll down and fold 
from four to six times, not counting the time you envelop 
the butter in the dough. In cold weather, and when 
the butter is firm, fold and roll only four times ; but in 
rather warm weather, fold and roll six times. If it is too 
warm, it is of no use to try with butter. 

Puff-paste may be made without stopping; that is, 
without putting it away in a crool place for some time ; 
but it is better to let it rest ; it is lighter and rises better. 
When finished, it can be used immediately ; but it is bet- . 
ter also to put it in a plate or dish, cover it with a towel, 
and put it in a refrigerator for from twelve to twenty-foar 
hours. Although it must be kept in a cool place, do not * 
put it near enough to the ice to freeze. It may be kept 
thus for two or three days. 

Puff-paste loith Beef- Suet — Take half a pound of 
fresh beef suet, the nearest the kidney the best ; break it 




PABTEY. 413 

in small pieces with the hands, at the same time removing 
the thin skin and fibres as nmch as possible ; put it in a 
bowl of cold water and Imead well till it is rather soft ; 
take it ofi*, mash and bruise it well on the paste-board with 
a rolling-pin ; knead it again like butter ; roll it in flour 
like butter also, and proceed As above for the rest, and with 
the same proportion, weight for weight of flour and beef- 
suet, but it requires more salt. Beef-suet being more firm 
than butter, pufl'-paste can be made with it during sum- 
mer, but it must be eaten immediately, being very inferior 
after a while. 

. The proportion of butter and flour may be varied. 
Weight for weight makes the real pufl'-paste, and very 
rich. If less butter is used it will not rise as much, but is 
excellent nevertheless, and is more handy to make different 
cakes, such as short-cakes with fruit. Therefore puff^-paste 
may be made with the following proportions : to one pound 
of flour, use fourteen, twelve, ten, eight, or even four ounces 
of butter or suet. Another way is to mix one or two eggs 
in the flour, water, and salt before rolling it down. When 
eggs are used, it requires less water. Envelop the butter 
in it in the same way. 

Allumettes, — Cut strips of pufl'-paste of any length, 
about three inches wide and about one-fifth of an inch in 
thickness ; mix well together, and for about three or four 
minutes, one ounce of sugar and about half the white of 
an egg ; spread this mixture over the strips of paste, so 
as to have a rather thin coat of it ; then cut the paste 
across, so as to make small strips about one inch broad 
and three inches long. Bake in an oven at about 400 
deg. Fahr. 

FeuilUttes, — Roll pufl'-paste down to a thickness of 
from one-eighth to one-half of an inch in thickness ; cut 



414 PASTBY. 

it in pieces of any size and shape, according to fency, 
with a knife or with a papte-cutter; glaze the top only 
with eggy and bake in an oven at about 450 deg. Fahr. 

Feuillettes a la Conde, — ^RoU and cut the paste exactly 
as for the above ; then, instead of baking it, fiy it in hot 
fat (see Frying); turn into a colander when fried, dust 
with sugar, and serve as warm as possible. 

Pommees. — Line the bottom of a bakepan with puff- 
paste, about one-eighth .of an inch in thickness ; spread 
stewed apples over it of a thickness of one-quarter of an 
inch ; cover these with another thickness of puff-paste ; 
prick the cover all over with the point of a knife, and bake 
in an oven at about 400 deg. Fahr. When baked, cut it 
in square pieces, dust with sugar, and serve hot or cold, 
according to taste. 

Porte-manteaux, — Cut strips of puff-paste of any length, 
about three inches broad, and one-eighth of an inch in 
thickness; spread on the middle of the strips, and length- 
wise, some frangipane, or stewed apples, or any kind of 
sweetmeats, of the size of the finger. Then turn one side 
of the paste over the frangipane or sweetmeats, glaze the 
border with egg (we mean by " the border," about half an 
inch in width, measuring from the edge) ; then turn the 
other side over it so that the glazing will cause the two 
pastes to stick together. Thus it will be only a 
little over an inch broad and about half an incb thick. 
Cat the strips across in small pieces about two inches long, 
glaze the top with egg, and then bake in an oven at 400 
deg. Fahr. 

Tartelettes, — Roll some puff-paste down to a thick- 
ness of about one-sixteenth of an inch ; cut it, witb a paste- 
cutter, of the size of small tin moulds, and place the pieces 
in the moulds ; put about a teaspoonfiil of frangipane in 



PASTEY. 415 

each; place two narrow strips of paste across each, which 
strips you cut with a truckle ; bake in an oven at about 
380 deg. Fahr. 

Tartelettes (sweet), — Proceed as for the above in every 
particular, except that you use any kind of sweetmeats or 
jelly instead of frangipane. 

Cake Pithiviers. — ^RoU some puiOF-paste down to a 
thickness of about one-eighth of an inch; cut it round 
and place on a baking-pan ; if the pan be squai*e 05 rec- 
tangular, cut a round piece that will go in easily ; cut a 
strip of paste about one inch broad, glaze with egg the 
border of the paste in the pan, place the strip all around, 
and then glaze it also. Fill the middle with the following 
mixture : pound four ounces of sweet almonds and mix 
them well with half a pound of sugar, two ounces of but- 
ter, four yolks of eggs, essence to flavor, and four maca- 
roons chopped. Cut another piece of puflf-paste round, 
and of the same size as the other ; dust it slightly with flour, 
fold it gently in four ; the piece then will have two straight, 
sides and a circular one. With a sharp knife make three 
cuts in each of the two straight sides through the four 
thicknesses of the paste, and about half an inch in length. 
Make another cut through the paste also, representing half 
of the figure 8, right in the middle of the piece of paste, 
commencing half an inch from the border of the circular 
side and in the middle of it, and going toward the point, 
so that when the paste is open there are sixteen cuts in it 
Place the paste still folded on the paste and mixture in 
the pan, the circular side on the border and the point 
right in the middle ; open it gently, and the whole will be 
covered. Glaze with egg, and put in an oven at from 430 
to 460 deg. Fahr. The same cake may be filled with a 
frangipane, and prepared as the above for the rest. 



416 PASTRY. 

.Rissoles (also called FourrSs). — Cut round pieces of 
puff-paste about three inches in diameter; wet the edge 
with water, put a teaspoonful of compote or any kind of 
swe.etmeat on one side of it, then fold the paste in two, so 
as to cover the sweetmeat ; pinch the paste around to cause 
it to adhere, in order to envelop the sweetmeat ; you have 
then a cake of a semicircular shape. • Glaze with egg, 
bake in a quick oven, dust with sugar, and serve. 

Galette du Qymnase, — Make puff-paste with half a 
pound of butter to a pound of flour, and when done as 
directed, knead it. Then roll it down to the thickness 
of about one-fourth of an inch, cut it in strips of any 
length and about an inch and a half wide, glaze witli egg, 
bake in a quick oven, about 420 deg. Fahr. . The two 
ends of the strips may be brought together and joined, 
forming a crown. The same galette is made with trim- 
mings of puff-paste, kneaded and rolled as above. 

Fanchonnettes, — ^These are made with the same puff- 
paste as the galette above ; then cut it in round pieces, 
place them on small moulds, fill them with any kind of 
sweetmeats and frangipane, with almonds, half of each; 
bake, dust with sugar, and serve. Instead of frangipane, 
spread raisins over the sweetmeats, or almonds, peanuts, 
hazel-nuts, etc., all cut in small strips, lengthwise ; you make 
then an infinite number of different small cakes. 

Fans, — ^Make some puff-paste with equal weight of 
flour and butter, fold and roll it down six times, and put 
in a cold place. Leave it of a thickness of about one- 
quarter of an inch ; cut it with a sharp knife in pieces of 
a rectangular shape, about four inches long and two broad, 
which cut again in two, across and from one comer to the 
other, so that you make two pieces of a right-angled tri- 
abgle shape. Place the pieces on their sides in a bake- 



PASTRY. 417 

pan, on their sides, far apart?, and bake in a very quick 
oven. When done, dust with sugar, and serve. 

Vol-aurvent and bouchees for the day's use are baked 
early in the morning. They are warmed in a slow oven 
just before filling them. 

Vol-aU'Vent — ^A vol-au-vent is made with puff-paste 
and filled with oysters, meat, etc., when baked ; that is, 
when the cake is baked and emptied, it is warmed in the 
oven, filled, and served warm. It is made of an oval or 
round shape. When made small it is generally of a round 
shape, but when made rather large it is generally of an 
oval shape. When the puff-paste is ready to be used, 
roll down to any thickness from one-quarter to three- 
quarters of an incb; cut it with, a sharp-pointed knife 
of the size and shape you wish, then with the same 
knife cut jvhat is called the cover, ^. e., make a cut all 
around, about half an inch -from the edge or border, and 
about one-third through the paste, leaving two-thirds of 
the thickness of the paste uncut. This operation is called 
marking out the cover. Glaze the top of the paste with 
egg, and bake it in a ver}' quick oven, about 500 deg. 
Fahr. In glazing, be careful not to glaze the sides or 
allow any Qgg to run on the sides ; it would prevent the 
paste from rising. Some drawings may be made on the 
cover with the back of a knife, according to fancy : leaves, 
for instance, are very easily imitated ; it is only necessary 
to run the knife on the paste, without cutting it When 
in the oven, do not look at it for at least seven or eight 
minutes, for in opening the door of the oven it might 
cause the paste to fall, and even after that time open and 
shut the door quickly ; take off when properly baked. 
When the oven is hot enough it takes about twelve min- 
utes, and even less time when the vol-au-vent is small. 
18* 



4:18 PABTEY. 

Take from the oven when baked, and immediately run the 
point of the knife all aroand and in the same place as 
y.ou did before being baked, which place is well marked. 
Thus you cut off the cover and remove it, then remove 
also all the unbaked paste that is inside of the vol-au-vent, 
so that you have left what may be called a shelL Keep it 
then till the oysters or meat are ready to put in it. About 
five minutes before the filling is ready, put the shell or 
baked paste in a slow oven to warm it, turn the filling 
into it, enough to fill it entirely ; place the cover on the 
top, and serve warm. The unbaked paste removed frois 
the inside is baked, and makes an excellent cake, though 
not a sightly one. 

Another, — ^Cut a piece of puff-paste the same as for 
the above one, that is, either round or oval, and of the 
size you wish. Instead of marking a cover, gkyse the bor- 
der with egg. . It is understood here by " the border,*' a 
space about three-quarters of an inch broad and all around 
it, the space being measured from the edge toward the 
centre. Then cut a strip of puff-paste about three-quar- 
ters of an inch broad, long enough to cover the place or 
space glazed, which strip you put all around the first paste, 
and you then have a border. The place between the two 
pastes being glazed, they will adhere in baking. Then 
also glaze the upper side of the border carefiiUy with 
egg. With a knife or fork, prick the paste, inside of the 
border only, in ten, fifteen, or twenty places, according to 
the size of the vol-au-vent, and* in order to prevent that 
part from rising as much as it would if not pricked. 
Bake in the same oven as the above — a very q^oick one. 

A vol-avrvent thus made is deeper than the first one, 
having two thicknesses of paste. Generally there is little 
cir no paste (unbaked) to remove ; having pricked the cen- 



,-» 



PASTEY. 419 

tre, it prevents it from rising and bakes it iDvenly, but if 
there is any, remove it A cover may be made by cutting 
a piece of puff-paste of the size of the vol-au-vent and 
baking it separately. It may be decorated with tlie back 
of the knife as the above one, and made convex on the top 
by baking it on a piece of tin. It is warmed, filled, and 
served the same as the above.' 

A vol-au-vent is filled with the following : 

With Oysters, — The quantity is according to the size 
of the vol-au-vent, Blanch one quart of oysters. Put 
two ounces of butter in a saucepan, set it on the fire, and 
when melted add a tablespoon fill of flour ; stir, and when 
turning rather yellow add also about a pint of milk, and 
the liquor from the oysters ; stir, and as soon as it turns 
rather thick put the oysters in, taking care to have them 
free from pieces of the shell. Give one boil, add salt to 
taste, two yolks of eggs, stir again, turn into the warm 
paste, place the cover on, and serve warm. 

With Lobster, — Prepare the lobster as for bozcchees, 
fill the shell with it, and serve warm. 

With Cod-fish, — Prepare fresh cod-fish a la Bechamel^ 
fill the vol-au-vent or shell with it, and serve warm. 

With Turhot, — Proceed as for cod-fish in every par- 
ticular. 

With Eels, — Fill the vol-au-vent with eels, oyster- 
sauce, or in poulette^ and serve warm. 

With Chicken, — Fill with a chicken or part of a 
chicken in fricassee or saute. 

With Livers and Combs of Chicken, — Prepare combs 
and livers of chicken in fricassee^ the same as a chicken, 
fill the vol-au-vent with them. Serve hot. 

With Sweetbreads, — Cook the sweetbreads as directed, 
and fill the vol-au-vent with them. Serve warm. 



420 PASTRY. 

With Veal, — Fill the vol-au-vent Nvith veal in hhm- 
quettCy in ragout, or in hourgeoise, and serve. It is gen- 
erally filled with what has been left the day previous, as it* 
requires very little for a vol-au-vent 

With Brains. — It may be filled with brains of calf, 
pig, sheep, or veal ; prepared in poulette, or stewed. 

With JRabhit. — Fill it with part of a rabbit saute. 

It may also be filled 'with any other rneat or Jlsh, ac- 
cording to taste, and being cooked pre\dously. 

With Fruits. — Fill the vol-au-vent with any kind of 
stewed fruit, jelly, sweetmeats, etc. It may be only 
filled, or the fi-uit may be dressed in pyramid inside of it- 

Vouchees. — Bouchees, or petiies bouchees, as they are 
sometimes called, are small, round vol-au-vent, served 
warm. They are also called bouchees de dames and petites 
bouchees. Eoll puff-paste down to a thickness of about 
one-quarter of an inch, cut it with a paste-cutter, of any 
size, mark the cover, and bake in an oven at about 450° 
Fahr. A good size is about three inches in diameter. 
When cut, take another paste-cutter about two inches in 
diameter, place it on the piece of paste ; press on it just 
enough to mark the place where it was, but not enough 
to cut the paste, remove it and then the cover is marked ; 
that is, you have a circle on the top of the paste, half an 
inch from the edge all around. Glaze with egg and bake. 
Make one for each person. Immediately on taking them 
from the oven, cut off the cover with a sharp-pointed 
knife. That is easily done ; it is only necessary to follow 
the mark made with the paste-cutter, which is just as 
visible as before baking. Eemove. the cover and then 
carefully take out some unbaked paste inside of the 
bouchee, fill with lobster prepared as directed below, put 
the cover on, and serve as warm as possible. 



— ■— ^. MM*! 



PASTRY. 4:21 

T?ie Filling, — Cut some flesh of boiled lobster in dice. 
Put two ounces of butter in a saucepan and set it on the 
fire ; when melted, add a tablespoon ful of flour, stir for 
about one minute, and add also broth (the quantity must 
be according to the number of houcMeSy but we will give 
here the quantity necessary for five or six bouchees), about 
three gills, also salt, pepper, then the cut lobster; stir 
now and then for five or six minutes, and use. 

Of Ousters, — Prepare, fill and serve exactly as the 
above, except that you fill with oysters prepared as for 
vol-au-vent^ instead of filling with lobster. 

Of Cod-fish, — Fill the bouchees with cod-fish, prepared 
a la Bechamel, and serve warm. 

Of Eels, — Have some eels prepared either in poulette 

or oyster-sauce, fill the bouchees, and serve wai*m. 

Of Turbot. — It is filled with turbot h la creme or a la 
Bechamel, 

It may also be filled with any kind of fish, prepared 
a la Bechamel^ a la creme^ in white sauce, oyster-sauce, etc. 

Of Truffles, — Cut the white flesh of a chicken in dice, 
prepare it as a chicken sauti^ using truffles but ho mush- 
rooms, fill the bouchees with it ^nd serve warm. 

Of Puree of Chicken^ or Bouchees de Dames. — It is 
filled with some puree of chicken, and served as warm as 
possible. 

Do the same with a purie of game. 

Of Bobolink, — Prepare and clean twelve bobolinks as 
directed for birds, put a teaspoonful of truffles, cut in 
small dice, in each bird, for stuffing ; sew the incision, and 
bake or roast the birds. Put each bird in a bouchee, and 
serve warm. A more delicate dish cannot be made. 

The same may be done with any kind of small bird, 

Bouchees are generally served on a napkin and on a 
dish, in pyramid. 



422 PASTEY. 

Pate a choicx. — ^Weigh four ounces of flour, to wLicli 
add half a teaspoonful of sugar. Put two gills of cold 
water in a tin saucepan with two ounces of butter, and set 
it on the fire, stir a little with a wooden spoon to melt 
the butter before the water boUs. At the first boiling of 
the water, throw into it the four ounces of flour and stir 
very fast with the spoon, holding the pan fast with the 
left hand. As soon as the whole is thoroughly mixed, 
take from the fire, but continue stirring for about fifteen 
or twenty seconds. It takes hardly half a minute from 
the time the flour is dropped in the pan to that when 
taken from the fire. The quicker it is done, the better. 
When properly done, nothing at all sticks to the pan, and 
by touching it with the finger it feels as soft as velvet, and 
does not adhere to it at alL Let it stand two or three 
minutes, then mix well with it, by means of a spoon, one 
egg ; then another, and so on ; in all four. It takes some 
time and work to mix the eggs, especially to mix the- first 
one, the paste being rather stiff! They are added one at 
a time, in order to mix them better. If the eggs are 
small, add half of one or one more. To use only half a 
one, it is necessary to be^t it first. Let the paste stand 
half an hour, stir again a little^ and use. If it is left 
standing for some time and is found rather dry, add a 
little egg, which mix, and then use. 

Beignets Souffles — (also called Pets de Nonne), — ^Make 
some 'p&te a ckoux ; take a small tablespoonful of it, 
holding the spoon with the left hand, and with the fore- 
finger of the right cause the paste to fisdl in hot fat on the 
fire (see Frying), turn over and over again till fried, then 
tui:n into a colander, dust with sugar, and serve hot. In 
frying, the paste will swell four or five times its ehe, and 
by dropping it carefully and as nearly of a round shape as 
possible, the cakes will be nearly round when done. 



^ 



PASTEY. 423 

Choux or Cream Calces, — ^Makc some p&te a choux ; 
have a buttered bakepan, and drop the paste upon it in 
the same way as you drop the beignets above ; glaze with 
egg, and bake in an oven at about 380° Fahr. When 
baked and cold, make a cut on one side, about two-thirds 
through, the cut to be horizontal, a little above the middle, 
then, by raising the top a little, fill tKe cake, which is hol- 
low, with one of the following creams : whipped, Chantilly, 
cuite, frangipane, or leg ere ; dust with sugar, and serve. 

The same, with Almonds, — ^Blanch sweet almonds and 
cut them in small strips, lengthwise ; then, when the choux 
are in the bakepan and glazed with egg, spread the al- 
monds all over, bake, fill, and serve as the above. 

Saint Honor L — ^Make some pdte a choux. Then put 
four tablespoonfuls of flour on the paste-board with two 
of sugar, one e^, one ounce of butter, salt, and a pinch 
of cinnamon; mix and knead the whole well; roll the 
paste down to a thickness of about one quarter of an inch 
and place it in a bakepan. Put a dessert-plate upside 
down on the paste, and cut it aU around the plate -with a 
knife ; remove what is cut off and also the plate. Spread 
some pd,te a choux, about a teaspoonfiil, all over the paste 
left in the bakepan, about one-sixteenth of an inch in 
thickness ; put some of it also in the pastry-bag, and by 
squeezing it out, make a border with it about the size of 
the finger ; prick the middle of the paste in about a dozen 
places with a fork, and inside of the border ; glaze the 
border with egg, and then bake in an oven at about 400° 
Fahr. While the above is baking, make very small, choux 
(about the size of a macaroon), and bake them also. When 
both are baked, and while they are cooking, make some 
creme legere, fill the inside of the cake with it, so as to 
imitate a sugar-loaf or mound, about four inches in 



424 PASTRY. 

height, smooth it or scallop it with a Iniife. Put two 
tablespoonfals of sugar and two of water in a saucepan, set 
it on the fire, toss the pan occasionally to boil evenly, and 
till it becomes like syrup. Do not stii* too mucL, else it 
will turn white and somewhat like molasses-candy. It 
is reduced enough when, by dipping (not stirring) a httle . 
stick in it and dipping it again immediately in cold 
water, the symp-like liqnor that has adhered to it breaks 
easily and is very transparent It must be as transparent 
as* glass, ^s soon as reduced thus, take from the fire and 
use. Dip the top of each small chou in it, holding the 
chou with a small knife stuck in it ; place a piece of candy 
(generally, sugar-plums of various colors are used) on the 
top of each cTiou ; place them apart and around the crem 
legere^ and upon the border of the cake, with one a little 
larger than the others on the top of it ; serve cold. This 
cake is as good as it is sightly. 

Eclairs. — Eclairs are also csHled petits pains or profile- 
rolles au chocolat. 

Eclairs au Chocolat — Make some p&te a chmx as 
directed above, and put it in the pastry-bag with tube No. 
1 at the end of it. Force it out of the bag into a baking- 
pan greased with butter. By closing and holding np the 
larger end of the bag- and by pressing it downward, it wiD 
come out of the tube in a rope-hke shape and of Ae size , 
of the tube. Draw the bag toward you while pressbg, 
and stop when you have spread a length of about fonr 
inches. Repeat this operation till the baking-pan is full or 
till the paste is all out Leave a space of about two inches 
between each cake, as they swell in baking. Bake in an 
oven at about 3 70. degrees. When baked and cold, slit 
one side about half through, open gently and fill each cake 
with the following cream, and then close it Cream : pot 






PASTBY. 425 

in a block-tin saucepan three tablespoonfuls of sugar, two 
of flour, four yolks of eggs, and mix well with a wooden 
^poon. Add a pint of milk, little by little, and mixing the 
while; set on the fire, stir continually till it becomes 
rather thick, and take off. Have one ounce of chocolate 
melted on a slow fire in half a gill of milk, and mix it with 
the rest, and use. Put one ounce of chocolate in a tin 
saucepan with a teaspoonful of water, and set on a slow 
fire ; when melted, mix with it two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
stir for a while ; that is, till it is just thick enough to 
spread it over the cakes, and not liquid enough to run 
down the sides. A thickness of about one-sixteenth of 
an inch is sufficient. The cakes may either be dipped in 
the chocolate or the chocolate may be spread over them 
with a knife. Serve cold. 

Eclairs au Cafe, — ^It is made exactly like the above, 
except that you mix with the cream three tablespoonfuls 
of strong coffee, instead of chocolate and milk. 

JSclairs au The, — It is made like the preceding one, 
with the exception that strong tea is used instead of strong 
coffee. 

JSclairs a la Vanille, — Proceed as for the above, b.ut 
mix a teaspoonful of essence of vanilla in the cream instead 
of tea. 

Eclairs a V Essence, — ^The meaning of eclairs a V essence 
is, that a few drops of any kind of essence are mixed with 
the cream instead of chocolate and milk, and prepared and 
served like the others. 

Eclairs atcx Fraises, — Instead of filling the cakes with 
cream, fill them with strawberry-jelly, and for the rest 
proceed as for eclairs au chocolat 

Eclairs aux Groseilles, — Made like the above, but filled 
with currant-jelly. 



426 PASTEY. 

Do the same witli apple^ hloLckherryy cherry, grape, 
peachy pear, plum, quince, raspberry jelly, etc. 

Petite Faine a la JSeine, — Eclairs are so called wheD. 
filled with mannalade of peaches in which sweet almonds 
chopped fine have been mixed previously. 

Petits Pains a la Rose. — Like the above, and bj add- 
ing a few drops of essence of roses to the marmalade. 

Petits Pains h V Essence. — ^Like the above, with any 
kind of essence : pink, violet, geranium, etc. 

Biscuits in Boxes, — Make some square boxes with 
sheets of white paper; fill them about two-thirds full 
with the same mixture as for lady's fingers^ dust with 
sugar, and bake in a slow oven ; serve cold. 

With Almonds, — Mix well together with a wooden 
spoon four yolks of eggs with four ounces of sugar (pul- 
verized), add three ounces of flour and mix well again. 
Beat the four whites to a stiff froth, and then have some- 
body to turn the mixture into them while you finish beat- 
ing, and then mix the whole gently but well. It must not 
be stirred too much. Have two ounces of bitter almonds 
well pounded, with a teaspoonful of sugar, and mix them 
with the rest Butter small moulds, turn the mixture into 
them, filling about two-thirds full, glaze with egg, dust 
with sugar, and bake in an oven at about 300 degj-ees Fahr. ; 
serve cold. 

With Chocolate, — Make some tiscuits like the above, 
omitting the almonds, and flavoring them with a few drops 
of essence of vanilla. When cold, glaze them with choco- 
late, the same as described for eclairs, and serve. 

With Essence, — Make biscuits vrith almonds or with- 
out, as the above ones, and flavor them with any kind of 
essence, or with orange and lemon rind grated. 

Glazed, — ^Wheri the biscuits are baked, glaze them 



PASTEX. * 4:27 

with icing, and serve cold. These are sometimes called 
biscuits a la rotate. 

Of Rheims, — Mix well in a bowl six yolks of eggs 
with six ounces of sugar, with a wooden spoon. Add 
and mix with the above five ounces of flour and lemon- 
rind grated; beat four whites of eggs to a stiff froth, 
and mix them also with the rest. Butter small moulds, 
turn the; mixture into them, and bake in a slow oven, 
about 300 degrees Fahr. These are often made of the 
shape of lady's fingers. They are excellent eaten with 
wine. 

With Filberts. — Put ten or twelve ounces of filberts 
or peanuts in a mortar with a few drops of orange-flower 
water and about half the white of an egg ; when reduced to 
a paste, mix well with it four ounces of sifted flour, eight 
ounces of fine, white sugar, the yolks of two eggs well 
beaten, and the whites of four eggs whisked to a froth; 
when the whole is properly mixed, put it into a well-but- 
tered mould, which place in a mpderately-hcated oven ; 
watch it carefully, take out when cooked, which is easily 
known by the color it assumes. 

Biscuits with hazel-nuts, peach, or other kernels, may 
be made in the same way ; that is, using them instead of 
filberts. 

Lady's Fingers, — Mix well together with a wooden 
spoon four yolks of eggs and four ounces of pulverized 
sugar, then add three ounces of flour and mix well again. 
Beat four whites of eggs to a stiff fi'oth ; have somebody 
to turn two tablespoonfuls of the mixture into the whites 
as soon as beaten enough, and which you mix with the 
egg-beater, then turn the rest of the mixture in, mixing 
gently with the wooden spoon. This must be done rather 
quickly, to prevent the whole from turning liquid. Put 



428 PABTEY. 

the mixture in the pastry-bag with tin tube No. 1 at the 
end of it, squeeze it out in sticks about four inches long into 
a baking-pan slightly buttered and dusted with flour, or on 
a piece of paper placed in the bottom of the pan ; then 
dnst them with sugar, and bake in ja rather slow oven. 
They must not change in the oven, that is, they must not 
spread or swell, showing that the oven is too hot or too 
slow, or that the mixtur.e has not been properly prepared- 
They must be like small sticks, round on the upper side 
and flat underneath. They are sometimes called biscuits 
h la cuiller. They are used to make a Charlotte Husse, or 
eaten with wine. 

Cakes. — Almond, — Blanch, skin, and pound well one 
ounce, of sweet almonds and the same of bitter ones, 
which you mix with eight ounces of pulverized sugar, six 
of flour, two eggs, a tablespoonful of brandy or rum, and 
a pinch of sugar. * When thoroughly mixed, add ^ve 
yolks of eggs, mix and stir for five minutes, then add also 
and mix half a pound of riielted butter. Turn the mix- 
ture in small moulds, well buttered, and bake in a rather 
slow oven. Some almonds cut in small pieces may be 
spread over just before baking; or, when baked, some 
icing may be spread over. Serve cold. This is also called 
Nantais cake. Instead of almonds, use filberts, hazel-nuts, 
currants, peanuts, or raisins. 

FourrL — ^This is made with puff'-paste and cream, or 
puff-paste and different mixtures placed inside of it, such 
as Pithiviers cake and fruit-pies. 

Anckovy, — Knead four ounces of flour with two 
ounces of butter, a little salt, and a little water. Clean 
four anchovies and put them in vinegar for five minutes; 
then cut them in small pieces, put them in a bowl, and 
cover them with sweet-oil ; leave them thus ten minutes. 



PASTEY. 429 

Roll the paste thin, then place a little more than half of 
it on a tart-dish, raising it all around with the thumb and 
forefinger ; cover the paste with the anchovies, and these 
with the remainder of the paste,^ after having cut it in 
square pieces ; spread some of the oil in which were the 
anchovies on it, bake in a warm oven, baste now and 
then with a little of the oil, and serve warm. 

Apple, — Stew eight or ten apples and mash them 
through a sieve. Put them in a saucepan with about two 
ounces of butter, and eight of sugar, set on the fire for 
five minutes, take off, let cool, and then mix with it five 
or six eggs, one after another. Turn the mixture into a 
buttered mould, which you place in a pan of boiling water, 
then boil slowly about half an hour, turn over a dish, and 
serve warm or cold. 

Hard, — ^Put half a pound of flour on the paste-board 
and "make a hole in the middle; put into it three 
ounces of pulverized sugar, three ounces of butter, 
•two eggs, a pinch of cinnamon, a few drops of essence, 
and knead the whole well, dust the board with flour, 
roll the paste down to a thickness of about one-fourth 
of au inch, cut it in pieces with a paste-cutter, of 
any shape ; beat one egg with a teaspoonful of sugar and 
glaze the pieces with it; with a piece of wood draw 
leaves or flowers on each, and bake in an oven at about 
360 degrees Fahr. They are eaten cold at tea. 

Heavy or Gdteau de Plomh, — ^Proceed as above with 
one pound of flour, a pinch of salt, one ounce of sugar, 
four yolks of eggs, one pound of butter, half a pint of 
cream ; when rolled down as above, fold in two or four, and 
roll down again ; repeat the process four times. Then place 
it in a bakepan and put in a hot oven. Serve cold at tea. 

Milanais. — Put one pound of flour on the paste-board 



430 PASTEY. 

and make a hole in the middle, in which you put half a 
pound of butter, same of sugar, two eggs, a pinch of salt, 
and a quarter of a gill of rum. Mix and knead to a 
rather stiff dough with, cold water. Spread it and roll it 
down to a thickness of about one-eighth of an inch. 
Glaze it with egg, dust with sugar and bake in a rather 
quick oven. When cold, cut it in two, spread some com- 
pote of peaches or of apricots on one half, put the other 
half over it, cut in pieces according to fancy, and serve. 

Bum Cakes,— These are made with spenge cake cut with 
a paste-cutter, some sweetmeats or jelly is placed on the 
middle, then it is dusted with pulverized sugar, watered 
with rum, and Jihen placed in the oven for about two 
minutes. These cakes have several names, according to 
the kind of sweetmeat used. 

Savarin, — ^Put one pound of flour on the paste-board 
and make a hole in the middle ; put into it four ounces of 
sugar, and make a hole again ; then put in the middle four 
eggs, twelve ounces of butter,, one and a half gills of milk ; 
mix and knead the whole well ; then mix again in the 
whole four ounces of leaven prepared as directed; butter 
a mould, dust it with sweet almonds chopped ; put the 
mixture in it; put in a warm place (about 78 degrees 
Fahr.) to rise, and bake in an oven at 430 degrees Fahr. 
It ViU take about two and a half hours to rise. The 
mould must not be filled, else it -will run over in rising. 

Sauce for Savarin, — ^Put four ounces of sugar and 
half a pint of cold water in a block-tin saucepan, set it 
on the fire and boil till reduced about one-third ; then add 
from one-half to one gill of *rum (according to taste), give 
one more boO, and turn over the cake. Baste the cake 
with the sauce till the whole is absorbed by it. Serve 
warm or cold. 



{ 



1 

i 



I 



I 



PASTBY. . 431 

Sponge Cake. — ^Mix well together in a bowl six yolks 
of eggs with four ounces of sugar ; add four ounces of 
flour and mix again, add also a few drops of essence, then 
whisk six whites of eggs to a stiif froth and mix them 
again with the rest. * Butter a mould, put the mixture into 
it, not filling it more than two-thirds full, and bake in an 
oven at about 320 degrees. Sponge cake may be cut in 
pieces and used to make a Charlotte Musse, instead of 
lady's fingers. 

Apple Dumplings. — Quarter, peel, and core the apples, 
and cut them in pieces, then envelop them in puft-paste 
with beef-suet, boil till thoroughly done, and serve warm 
with sugar, or with apple or wine sauce. It may also be 
served with sauce for puddings. 

Buckwheat Cakes, — ^Make a kind of thin dough with 
tepid water, yeast, buckwheat flour, and a little sugar and 
salt, let rise, and fry with butter. Serve hot with sugar, 
or molasses, or butter. 

Corn Cakes, — Mix well in a bowl two eggs with two 
ounces of melted buttt^r, a pint of corn-meal, salt and 
sugar to taste. While mixing set milk on the fire, and as 
soon as it rises, turn it into the mixture, little by little, 
stirring and mixing the while, and till it makes a kind of 
thick dough. Butter well a shallow bakepan, put the 
mixture into it, and Jbake. » 

Crullers, — Mix well together and work with a wooden 
spoon, in a bowl, one egg with two ounces of melted 
butter aiid half a pound of pulverized sugar; then add 
salt, cinnamon, nutmeg, a few drops of essence, and one 
pound of flour, and mix again ; add also milk, little by 
little, stirring and mixing at the same time, enough to 
make a thick batter. Divide the mixture in parts and fry 
in hot fat. (See Frying.) 



432 . PASTEY. 

Doughnuts, — ^Mix well together in a bowl four eggs 
with half a pound of sugar, add two or three ounces of 
melted butter and mix again, then mix with the whole, 
about one pound of flour and boiled milk enough to make 
a rather thick dough, season and nftx'viell with the whole, 
nutmeg, cinnamon, and a few drops of essence. Cut in 
fancy pieces with a knife or paste-cutter, and fry in hot 
fat [See Frying.) Dust with sugar, and serve hot. 

Muffins. — ^Mix well together on the paste-board one 
pound of flour and three eggs, then add and mix again 
milk enough to make a thin dough, a little yeast and salt 
Put away to rise ; divide in parts and bake. 

Pound Cake, — ^Take a large bowl and put in it one 
pound of melted butter and one pound of pulverized sugar, 
and mix the two thoroughly together with a wooden 
spoon; then add and mix well also with them, three eggs 
previously beaten with a saltspoonful of nutmeg and cinna- 
mon, half of each. When the eggs are mixed, add also 
half a pound of flour, mix well again ; then add six 
well-beaten eggs, and mix; then another half pound 
of flour, a few drops of essence of rose, half a gill of 
Sherry wine, a liquor-glass of brandy, four ounces of 
citron, and half a pound of comfited finiit, chopped fine. 
Beat and mix as well as possible. Butter a mould, dust 
it Twth fine bread-crumbs, turn the mixture into it, 
anTi bake in a warm but not quick oven. It takes abont 
two and a half hours to bake. As soon as cold, serve it 
It may be glazed with sugar, or sugar and white of e^. 

Short Cake, — Cut puflf-paste, made with a pound of 
flour and six or eight ounces of butter, in square or round 
pieces, bake ; when cold, spread sweetened strawberries 
on, then cover with another cake, spread strawberries 
again on it, etc. Strawberry-jelly may be used. 



PASTRY. 433 

Plum. — Mix well in a vessel a pound of sugar witli a 
pound of butter, and then again with eight eggs, one at a 
time, also half a pound of raisins, half a pound of flour, 
a little rum, and a little yeast» Line a mould with but- 
tered paper, turn .the mixture into it, not filling it more 
than two-thirds full, place it in a warm but not quick oven 
for nearly two 'hours, remove the mould, and serve hot or 
cold. 

Tea Cake. — Put half a pound of flour on the paste- 
board, and in the middle of it a pinch of salt, half an 
ounce of sugar, two Qgg^, four ounces of melted butter, 
and cold water enough to make a rather stiff paste. 
Knead well, roll down to about a quarter of an inch in 
thickness ; cut it in pieces with a knife or paste-cutter ; 
moisten the- top with water by means of a brush, dust 
with sugar, and bake iu an oven at about 370 degrees 
Fahr. Serve cold. 

Viennois. — Make some biscuits in boxes, and when 
cold, cut off a little piece on the top, in the centre, which 
place you fill with peg-ches or apricots in compote ; put 
two together ; serve cold. 

With Jelly, — Proceed as above in every particular, 
using currant or raspberry jelly instead of compote. 

MEAT-PIES. 

• 

F6.tes de Viande, — ^Meat-pies are made in moulds 
without bottoms and which ppen in two, or are made of 
two pieces joined and fastened together with two pieces 
of wire. The size of the mould and that of the pie are 
according to taste. A pie may be made and filled with a 
reed-bird, or with a quail, or a partridge, or prairie-chicken, 
or with a dozen of them. We will give the receipt for one 
prairie-chicken. 

19 



434 PASTBY. 

Pdite of Game. — ^Bone a prairie-chicken as directed for 
birds, and cut it in about balf a dozen slices or pieces. 
Grease the mould with butter and put it in a baJdng-pan. 
Put one pound of flour on the paste-board and make a 
hole in the middle ; place in it six ounces of butter, one 
^gg^ a pinch of salt, and about one gill and a half of cold 
water, and knead the whole well Roll it down to a thick- 
ness of about one-quarter of an inch, and of a rectangular 
shape; fold in two, and roll down again. Repeat this 
from six to twenty times ; that is, till the paste is soft. 
The last time roll it down to a thickness of one-third of 
an inch, and give it as round a shape as possible. Dust 
the upper side slightly with flour, fold in two in this way : 
turn the side farthest from you on the other, so that the 
side of the paste nearest to you will be sonaewhat round, 
and the opposite one will be straight. By pulling with 
the hands the two ends of the straight side toward you, 
it will make it somewhat round also ; then, take hold of 
the paste exactly in the places where you were pulhng ; 
put it in the mould with the side nearest to you on the 
top ; open it gently, and with the bauds spread it so that 
the bottom and sides of the mould will be perfectly lined 
with it. With a sharp knife cut the paste even with the top 
of the mould. Line the sides of the paste with thin slices 
of fat salt pork. Mix in a bowl one pound and a half of 
sausage-meat with two eggs, salt, pepper, a pinch of cin- 
namon and one of nutmeg ; place a layer of this mixtnrc 
about half an inch thick on the bottom of the paste ; then 
a layer of thin slices of fat salt pork ; one of slices of 
prairie-chicken ; again a layer of sausage-meat, one of salt 
pork, etc., layer upon layer, till the mould is nearly foUj 
finishing with a layer of sausage-meat, and giving to the 
top of the 'p^ie a convex form, but leaving a space o^ 



• itM 



PASTRY. 435 

about half an incli unfilled all around, so that the top of 
the pdte will be about one inch higher than the sides, and 
half an inch higher than the sides of the mould and paste. 
The cover of the pdte is made with the same paste as the 
bottom and sides, or with puff-paste. 

Roll the paste down to a thickness of about one-eighth 
of an inch. Glaze the sides of the paste in the mould 
with egg ; that is, the space (half an inch) left unfilled ; 
put the paste for the cover on the p&te ; press it gently 
against the other paste with the fingers in order to cause 
the two pastes to adhere ; with a sharp knife cut off the 
paste even with the mould. Make a hole in the middle and 
on the top of the cover about one inch in diameter ; cut 
five pieces of paste about three inches square, dust them 
slightly with flour ; place them one upon another on your 
left thumb, keeping it erect ; then with the right hand take 
hold of the pieces, bringing the edges together so that the 
top will form a ball ; with a sharp knife make two cuts 
across and through the five pieces ; form a kind of stem 
as if you were to imitate a mushroom with these pieces, 
and plant the stem in the hole; when baked it looks 
like a flower. Glaze the cover with egg ; cut strips of 
paste in different shapes with a knife or paste-cutter, place 
them on it according to fancy, and bake in an oven at 
about 390 degrees. Fahr. The strips of paste may also be 
glazed with egg. It will take about two hours to bake. 
As soon as cold, cut the cover all around and remove it ; 
fill the empty places with meat or calf s-foot jelly and put 
it on the dish. Chop some of the same jelly, put some 
all around it and on the top; cut some of it also in fancy 
shapes w^th a knife or paste-cutter ; place it all around 
the dish and on the top of the pdte, and serve. 

The cut following represents a plain pie ; that is, with- 



out any decoration, and immediately after having remoied 
thf mould. 



Another, or Bahhit-Pie. — Chop very fine and separaliy 
ly one ponnd of veal, one of beef, one of lean fresh pork, 
three of rabbit or hare, and three of fat freah port Mix 
the whole well together and season with salt, pepper, cin- 
nanioii, cloves, and nutmeg, all grated or in powder. Line 
a mould with pasite as directed above, put a layer of the 
mixture in the mould about one inch thick, place on it 
BJices of truffles, if handy and liked ; then another layer, 
truffles, etc., till the mould is full. If fiOed without truf- 
fles, it ia not necessary to put layer after layer. Cover 
also as above, and bake in a moderately heated oven, abont 
330 degrees Fahr, It takes from five to six bonis to 
bake. 

Another, of Prairie-ckkken Pie. — Skio a prairic-heQ 
(or several) and bone it. It is not necessarj' in boning it 
for a pie to proceed as directed for booed turkey, bnl 
merely to remove all the hones in the easiest atyl quietest 
manner ; yon cannot spoil the flesh, as it ia to be chopped. 
Weigh the flesh when free from bones and skin. Weigh 



PA8TEY. 437 

as much of each of the following: ham, salt pork, and 
calf's liver. Grate the salt pork and chop the three others 
very fine, and then pound the whole. Season with salt, 
pepper, cloves and nutmeg, both grated, a pinch of cinna- 
mon and chopped parsley; mix with the whole two or 
three eggs, one at a time,, in order to mix better. Line a 
mould with paste as directed above ; line the paste with 
thin slices of salt pork, fill it with the mixture, and cover, 
bake, finish, and serve exactly the same as the preceding. 
For two prairie-hens it will require about three hours to 
bake. Slices of truffles may also be used ; they are mixed 
at the same time with the eggs and seasonings. 

With Cold Meat, — "When the paste is placed in the 
mould as directed above, line it with thin slices of salt 
pork, then put a very thin layer of sausage-meat, prepared 
also as above, then fill with butcher's meat, poultry, and 
game, having previously removed all the bones, and cut 
the meat in strips; the greater the variety,- the better the 
pdte, Put a little of each kind of meat used in a mortar, 
say from one ounce to a pound, with parsley, thyme, bay- 
leaf, salt and pepper; pound the whole well and then mix 
with one egg, half a gill of white wine, or a liquor-glass 
of brandy, to every pound of meat. Fill the hollow 
places with the mixture, to which you may add a little 
gravy or broth if it is not liquid enough. Place thin 
slices of salt pork on the top, cover with paste as described 
above, cook and serve as above also. 

Meat-pies, as seen above, are made with every kind of 
meat ; with one or several kinds at the same time, accord- 
ing to taste. 

Wines and liquors may be used, it is only a matter of 
taste. The cover may be placed with only a hole in the 
centre, instead of decorating it. 



438 PASTRY. 

By using in turn butcher's meat, poultry, and game, 
an infinite number of diflferent pates can easily be made. 

Terrines (Terreen, or Tureen), — A terrine differs from 
a meat-pie in this, that instead of using a tin or brass 
mould and lining it with paste, a terrine (French word for 
terreen) is used, and is only lined with thin slices of salt 
pork, and closed with its cover. It is filled, cooked, and 
served in the same way as a meat-pie. 

Timbale, — The name timhale is given to a meat-pie 
when made in a straight tin mould, lined as a terrine, and 
covered with a tin cover. A terrine or timbale keeps 
longer in winter than the pie. 

Pains de Gibier {Pains of Game), — ^This means, loaves 
of game. It is a terrine made with any kind of game, 
of one or of several kinds, with the exception that birds 
are boned and filled (see Directions for Boning), before 
placing them in the terreen ; also, before covering the 
terreen, place a piece of buttered paper all around, so as 
to have it as nearly air-tight as possible when covered. 
Bake as above, and as soon as out of the oven remove the 
cover ; put a piece of tin, sheet-iron, or wood on the top, 
large enough to cover the meat, but not the border of the 
terreen. Place some weight on it in order to press the 
meat down, and leave thus over night. The weight and 
piece of tin are removed, the terreen is wiped clean, the 
cover placed on it, and it is then served, or served on a dish. 
It keeps very well in winter time; and many are imported 
from Europe, especially those made like the following: 

Another, — Cut four ounces of boiled beef-tongue and 
one pound of truffles in large dice. Put about two 
ounces of salt pork in a frying-pan on the fire, and when 
fried, add about six ounces of the flesh of prairie-hen, cut 
in pieces, four prairie-hens' and four chicken livers, eight in 



PASTRY. 439 

all ; stir, and when turning rather brown, add also chopped 
parsley, salt, and pepper; stir again for two or three 
minutes, and take oflf. Put in a mortar one pound of 
flesh of prairie-hen, baked and chopped;* one pound and 
a quarter of fat salt pork, and about four ounces of panade. 
Pound the whole well and put it in a large bowl. Then 
pound well also the six ounces of prairie-hen flesh and 
eight livers with twelve yolks of eggs and a wine-glass of 
Madeira wine, and put in the bowl also. Add to it the 
tongue and truffles, and mix the whole well, adding game- 
gravy, or meat-gravy if more handy, about a gill of it, 
season to taste with salt, pepper,- nutmeg, and cloves, 
grated. Bay-leaf and thyme, well pounded, may also be 
used, if liked. After being pounded, the whole may be 
mashed through a sieve, but it is really not necessary. 
Then place the mixture in one, two, or three terrines, 
cook, and serve as above. 

Another. — Take the flesh of six prairii3-hens when 
cooked, and pound it well. Pound also eight livers, fried ; 
four of prairie-hens and four of chickens; put flesh and 
livers in a saucepan with gravy, set on a slow fire, and as 
soon as warm, add to it, little by little, and stirring .con- 
tinually, about three-fourths of its volume of good butter. 
When all the butter is in, take from the fire, mix one 
pound of truffles cut in dice with it ; put the naixture in 
one or more terreens ; cover, bake, and serve as above. 

Terrines and pains are sometimes made with poultry, 
and in the same way as those of game. 

Fish-Pies, — These are made in the same way as meat- 
pies, using cooked fish instead of meat, but putting fish 
only inside of the paste. When done it is filled with 
coulis of fish instead of jelly. Serve as a meat-pie. The 
fish must be free from bones. 



440 PASTRY. 

Fruit-Pies, — Pies are made with paste and fruit or 
vegetables. The iinder-paste may be made of trimmings 
of puff-paste, or of the paste hereafter described, but the 
top is always made of ,puff-paste. The paste on the top 
may cover the fruit entirely, or it may be only strips run- 
ning across, according to taste and fancy. The fruit is 
used raw or cooked previously, according to kind ; if it 
. requires longer cooking than the paste, or if it requires 
to be mixed or mashed, it must be cooked previously. 

Under-Paste. — ^Put one pound of flour on the paste- 
board with six ounces of butter in the middle of it ; also 
two ounces of sugar, two eggs, and cold water enough to 
make an ordinary paste, neither too slift* nor too soft. 
KoU the paste down to a thickness of one-eighth of an 
inch, spread it on a tin dish or bakepan, buttered slightly, 
raise the borders a little or place a strip of puff-paste all 
around it; put the fruit in the middle, then cover with a 
thin piece of puff-paste or place strips of it only over the 
fruit, and bake in a rather quick oven, about 390 degrees 
Fahr. The strips of paste are cut with a paste-cutter 
(caster-like) and placed across; one strip may also be 
placed all around. When trimmings of puff-paste are* 
used for the under-paste, when placed on the tin or bake- 
pan, prick it in about a dozen places with a fork to pre- 
vent it from rising. To place a border around the paste, 
you have only to cut a strip of it about half an inch wide, 
wet the paste with water by means of a brush, that is, the 
edge or place where you are going to put it; then take 
hold of the strip, place one end of it on the paste and 
run it all around till you meet the end, cut it off and 
stick the two eniis tpgether by wetting them also. When 
the border is placed, then put the fruit in the middle ; if 
the fruit is not cooked, it must be mixed with sugar and 



■BM 



PASTEY. Ml 

essence, or cinnaraon, or nutmeg, according to kind; if 
cooked, that is, stewed, or in compote or in jelly, it is 
sweetened and flavored. 

The following are used to make pies : apples, apricots, 
cherries, currants, blackberries, cranberries, gooseberries, 
grapes, mulberries, oranges, peaches, pears, pine-apples, 
pluhns, quinces, raspberries, lemon, rhubarb, prunes, 
whortleberries, etc. It is better to stone the fruit before 
using it. Pies are decorated in the three following ways : 

1. When you use cooked fruit, put a thin layer of rice 
(prepareVl as for croquettes) on the paste, then a layer of 
stewed, fruit ; then the strips over, and bake. Two or 
three layers of each may be used. 

2. "When baked, spread over the pie some syrup of 
apples, of pears, or syrup for compotes, 

3. Just before serving, spread some creme leg ere on 
the top, tastefully and fancifully, by means of a paper 
funnel, or with the pastry-bag. 

Tarts and Tartelettes. — These are small pies. Instead 
of using a tin dish or a bakepan, you use small tin moulds, 
such as for madeleines, and proceed exactly as for pies. 

Mince-Pie, — Every thing used to make a mince-pie is 
chopped fine, and the spices are used in powder. Pre- 
pare paste as directed for meat-pies, and make it either 
with or without mould. Proportions : to three pounds 
of beef add six pounds of beef-suet, one pound of cur- 
rants, one of prunes, one of raisins, arid one of apples, the 
rind of two lemons, two ounces of citron, and one pound of 
any kind of comfited ffuit; nutmeg, mace, cinnamon, 
cloves, and sugar to taste ; also wine or brandy, or both, 
to taste. Bake in a moderately heated oven. The fruits 
may be used candied or fresh, the apples fresh or dried, it 
is a matter of taste. Twenty kinds of fruits and meat 
19* 



442 PASTRY. . 

may be used as well as three or four ; there are no rules 
to make a mince-pie, since its compounds are not used to 
be tasted at all separately, but as a whole. 

Pot-Pie, — ^Make a paste with one pound of flour, two 
ounces of butter, two ounces of beef-suet (the latter pre- 
pared as directed for puff-paste), a little salt, and water, 
enough to make a rather stiff paste ; roll it down to a 
thickness of about a quarter of an inch and fold it in three 
and roll down again; repeat the process half a dozen 
times, the last time leaving it rolled down and of the 
thickness above mentioned. Line the sides of a pot with 
it, lay slices or strips of salt pork on the bottom of the 
pot, then fill it with strips of meat, any and every kitid 
(slices of potatoes may be added, if liked) ; season with 
salt, pepper, nutmeg, and cinnamon ; fill with, water or 
broth ; cover with some of the same paste ; cover the 
pan and boil gently till done. When the cover of paste 
is laid on, make a hole in the centre to let the steam out, 
and to fill up with water or broth if it boils away. Run 
a sharp-pointed knife or a skewer through, to ascertain 
when done. Serve warm. Proceed as above either for 
butcher's meat, chicken, and other domestic fowls, or 
game. 

Puddings. — ^Puddings are made of several materials 
and in a hundred different ways. Some are cooked by 
boiling, others are baked, and some are both boiled and 
baked. Puddings for inhabitants of cities ought to 
be made as light as possible. For persons working out- 
side and at manual labor, it does not matter, because their 
food passes through the system in a short time. It is 
very well known that the poorer class of Americans eat 
too much pudding and pie. Many do it for economy, 
others for convenience. The former are mistaken, and the 



PASTRY. 443 

latter are blamable. Puddings and pies cost more in tlie 
end than meat properly and carefully prepared. We do 
not mean to do away with thera entirely, but we advise 
every one to do with puddings as with every thing else, 
" use, but do not abuse." ** Pies, cakes, and sweetmeats, 
are universally known to be poisoning to children, and 
the mothers who give them are conscious that they are 
purchasing the momentary smile of satisfaction at the risk 
of after-sickness, and perhaps of incurable disease." — 
Peter Parley. 

The above needs no commentary; we only recom- 
mend it to the consideration of young mothers. 

For Convenience. — We have taken the trouble to put 
questions about it to over three hundred mothers, wives 
of mechanics or of employes at a comparatively small 
salary, and we are sorry to say, that more than ninety per 
cent, gave us about the same answer — they make and 
cook cakes in one day, enough to feed the whole family 
for three days, to save the trouble of cooking every day. 
We cannot see where the trouble can be for a good wife and 
mother to prepare her husband and children's dinner. 

Pudding-eating is an English custom ; but, before fol- 
lowing a custom of another country, people ought to con- 
sider if that custom or fashion (whatever it is) has not 
been introduced into that country by necessity, which is 
the case of pudding-eating in England and in some parts 
of Holland. 

In England, where the fog is nearly perpetual, the 
stomach requires to be filled with something heavy, some- 
thing that will stay there till the next meal, and very often 
longer than that. 

It is well known that in England farm hands, or other 
persons working in the open air, eat six times a day, and 



444 PABTET. 

have pudding at least three times ; they drink home- 
brewed beer, which is very heavy, and very rich nlso. Let 
any one here, in this pur^ clear atmosphere, eat six times 
a day, have padding three times, with a pint of home- 
brewed beer every time, and see how he will foel in the 
evening. Wo beg all, who may doubt our observations, 
to try the esperimcnt, 

Pastrj- in general, no matter how light it may be made, 
lies heavier on the Btomach than any other food, and is 
very difficult of digestion. There are thousands of per- 
sons that have never had any indigestion but of pastry. 
Children like pastry very much ; this is easily understood ; 
as their young stomachs digest very rapidly,"they crave 
food oftener than grown persons. Pastry being easier 
to have at any time than any thing el.^e, it is given lo 
them; and from habit in youth arises the liking when 
grown up. The stomach, being accustomed to it from in- 
fancy, may digest it better, but it is always at the ei- 
pense of the whole system ; the stomach must work hard, 
too hard in digesting it; whence come dyspepsia, weak- 
ness, and finally consumption, or debility, j>r any other 
sickness of the same kind. 

The cat below represents a pudding (any kind), made 



PASTEY. 4:45 

in a mould, scalloped, and hollow in the middle ; any kind 
of mould may be used for puddings. 

Bread-Pudding, — Soak half a ten-cent loaf in milk for 
about an hour, and squeeze it with the hands ; place the 
bread in a bowl and mix well with it a gill of milk, three 
tablespoonfiils of sugar, one ounce of citron, cut rather fine, 
four ounces of- raisins, four ounces of melted butter, four 
yolks of eggS; Then beat the four whites of the eggs to 
a stiff" froth and mix them with the rest. Grease a mould 
well with butter, dust it with bread-crumbs, turn the mix- 
ture into it, and bake. The mould must not be more than 
about two-thirds fall. About 400 degrees Fahr. is the 
proper heat for a bread-pudding. It takes aboijt forty 
minutes to bake. Serve with a sauce for pudding, hot or 
cold, according to taste. 

Cabinet Pudding, — A cabinet pudding is made in any 
kind of a mould and of any size, with sponge-cake or 
lady's fingers. Butter a mould well ; if the butter is 
too firm, warm it so as to grease the mould better. Slice 
some citron and cut it in lozenge or of any other shape, 
according to fancy, and place tastefiilly on the bottom of 
the mould; place some raisins all around also. It is not 
necessary to cover the bottom with tbcm, but have some 
here and there, imitating flowers, stars, etc. Then put 
over them a layer of sponge-cake, cut in strips of any 
length and about half an inch thick ; on this layer place 
some citron, some comfited (candied) fruit of one or sev- 
eral kinds, and all cut in dice, also some raisins ; then an- 
other layer of cake, some more fruit, and so on, till the 
mould is full. After having placed the citron and raisins 
on the bottom, it is not necessary to put the rest in with 
care or order, but merely fill the mould with them and so 
that they are all mixed up. Set about a pint of milk on 



446 PASTET. 

the fire Mid take it off as soon as it rises. Mix well in a 
bowl three ounces of sagar with three yolks of eggs, then 
turn the milk into the bowl, little by little, stirring and 
mixing the while, and pour the mixture over the cake, 
fruit, etc., into the mould. The above quantities of milk, 
sugar, and eggs are for a middling-sized pudding, and it 
will be very easy to make more or less, according to the 
size of the pudding. The mixture must be poured over in 
sprinkling, and it must nearly cover the whole within 
about half an inch. It must not be poured too slowly, 
for, the cake absorbing the liquor pretty fast, you would 
have too much of it if you were filling as directed above ; 
we mean filling till the mould is nearly fiill. Place the 
mould in a pan of cold water so that it is about one- third 
covered by it^ set on the fire, and as soon as it boils, place 
the whole, pan and mould, in an oven at about 380 de- 
grees Fahr., and 'bake. For a middling-sized one it takes 
about one hour. When done,- place a dish over the mould, 
turn upside down, remove the mould, and serve with a 
sauce for puddings. % 

With Vermicelli. — ^Blanch four ounces of vermicelli, 
drain and drop it in cold water and drain again. While 
the vermicelli is cooking, put about a quart of milk in a 
saucepan on the fire with two ounces of sugar and a piece 
of lemon-rind, stir now and then to dissolve the sugar, and 
as soon as the milk rises, take it from the fire, remove the 
lemon, then turn the vermicelli into it, put back on the 
fire, add a tablespoonful of butter, stir continually, and 
when the veimicelli is well cooked, take off, mix well 
with the whole four eggs and sugar to taste. Turn the 
mixture into a well-buttered mould, place it in a pan of 
boiling water, boil slowly for ten minutes, then pLoce as it 
is, pan and mould, in a moderately-heated oven to finish 



PA8TEY. 447 

the cooking. It will take from fifteen to twenty minutes. 
Proceed as above with macaroniy tapwea^ etc. 

PlumrPvdding, — Break with the hands, in small 
pieces, about twelve oimces of the soft part of good and 
well-baked bread, not too fresh, but not stale, and grate it. 
Clean twelve ounces of raisins and currants, half of each. 
Cut in small dice four ounces of citron and four ounces of 
candied orange-rind. Chop fine the rind of a lemon. 
Butter a towel slightly and dust it with flour, slightly also. 
Take twelve ounces of good fresh beef-suet, remove the 
fibres and skin as well as possible, and chop it rather fine 
with three or four ounces of flour, and which put in a 
large bowl. Mix with it seven eggs and half a pound of 
sugar. It is believed by many that brown sugar is better 
than white, but it is only a belief, if not a prejudice; Add 
and mix again the bread, the raisins, and currants, the 
citron, and orange-rind. Having the whole thoroughly 
mixed, add half a gill of French brandy or Jamaica rum, 
a little salt, the lemon-rind, half a gill of cream or a little 
milk, and a little grated cinnamon. Place the mixture on 
the towel, and tie it as fast as possible, giving it a round 
shape. Drop the towel in boiling water, and boil for from 
four to five hours. Some boil a plum-pudding as long as 
seven hours. It may also be boiled in a mould for that 
purpose, but it is easier in a towel and quite as good. 
When taken from the water, remove the towel, cut a little 
piece of the pudding ofl^ to make it stand better on the 
dish. The place cut off is generally where the towel was 
tied, being the less smooth. The cut following shows a 
plum-pudding boiled in a towel. • 

Serve with a sauce for puddings. The sauce may be 
served in a boat, or spread all o^er the pudding. When 
served the second day, or cold for supper, it is cut in 



448 PASTEY. 

slices ; some JamMca rnm is poured oyer it, then set on 
fire, basting as long as it bums, and serve. It is generaUy 
burnt on the table, but the rum may be ponred over in the 
kitchen. The c«t below represents a whole one with rum 
around it and on fire. 



Biscottes. — Put half a pound of flour on the paste- 
boai'd and make a hole in the middle of it ; put in the hole 
four ounces of sugar, one ounce of hotter, three yolks of 
eggs, and a few drops of essence to flavor the cakes. Mix 
and knead the whole well "with the hand. When like 
dough, roll it under your hands and bring it to" a rope-like 
form of about three-quarters of an inch in diameter; cut 
it in piece* about two inehea long ; roll again with the 
hand so as to make a hall of each ; then roll ^ain with 
both hands so as to give each piece a round, elongated, 
olive shape ; that is, smaller at each end than at the mid- 
dle. Put them in a baking-pan, greased with butter; 
glaze each piece well with egg and a little sugar beaten to- 
gether, then, with a sharp knife, which you dip in flour, 
make a cat on the top and into each cake, lengthwise, 
about three-quarters through, and bake in an oven at 350 
degrees Fahr, Serve cold. It is an excellent cake for tea 
as well as for dessert 

With Almonds. — Add to the above mixture one ounce 
of pounded almonds. 

With Filberta or Hazel-nuts.— Add to the mixture 



PASTEY. 449 

for biscolUs, one ounce of fflberta or hazel-nuts, ponnded 
well. 

Brioche. — Mix together on the paate-board, one pound 
of flour, sis eggs, one pound of butter, four ounces of 
leaven prepared as direeled, and tepid water enough to 
mate a rather soft dough, then beat well. The longer it 
13 beatea the better, and the lighter the brioche will be. 
By beating we mean — take hold of tbe dough with ' the 
right hand, raise it and then throw it with force on the 
board and in the same place where it was ; repeat that till 
it cornea off your hand without any of the paste sticking 
to it Pttt the mixture in a tin vessel, set it in a warm 
place (about 78° Fahr.) for about two hours to rise, and 
then put immediately on ice to cool. When cold, put it 
back on the paste-board, cut off about one-fourth of it. 
Make a kind of erown with the larger piece, but not a very 
lai^e one; let the hole in the middle bo about three 
inches in diamct«r. Then give the other piece a rope- 
like shape, about three-quarters of an inch in diameter ; 
place it over the crown, giving it the shape of a star, and 
bake in an ovon at 430°. Serve warm, without sauce. 



Baha. — Mix together and beat as for a brioclie, one 
pound of flour, ten cgga, one pound and a quarter of but- 



450 PASTRY. 

ter, four ounces of raisins, four ounces of citron, four 
ounces of leaven, about half a pound of diflferent kinds of 
fruits, preserved in syrup or candied, all cut fine ; put to 
rise, let cool,- shape, bake and serve as a brioche. 

A haha may be baked in a mould ; the cut on the pre- 
vious page represents one. 

Croquignolles, — Put in a bowl four ounces of flour, a 
teaspoonful of butter, a pinch of salt, half a pound of 
butter, four whites of eggs, and a few drops of essence ; 
mix the whole well so as to make a very stiff paste. Then 
put the mixture on the paste-board, and roll it in a rope- 
like form about half an inch in diameter ; then cut it in 
pieces about half an inch long, glaze with yolk of ^gg^ 
dust with sugar, and bake in a warm but not quick oven. 
Serve cold at tea. 

Galette, — Knead together half a pound of flour, six 
ounces of butter, two eggs, and a pinch of salt ; roll it 
down to a thickness of a quarter of an inch, put in a bake- 
pan in the oven, and when nearly done, take off; mix well 
together one agg with a gill of cream and an ounce of 
butter, while the galette ia in the oven, spread the mixture 
over it, put back in the oven, finish the cooking, and serve 
cold at tea. 

Genoises, — ^Put in a large bowl six ounces of flour, 
eight of sugar, two eggs, a liquor-glass of brandy or rum, 
and a few drops of essence ; mix and stir the whole well 
for three minutes, then add two more eggs, stir and mix 
one minute longer, add again four eggs and continue stir- 
ring one minute longer. Melt half a pound of butter in 
another bowl, and mix with it about two tablespoonfiils 
of the mixture ; when, turn into the other bowl and mix 
the whole well together. Butter a bakepan, spread the 
mixture in it, and bake in a rather slow oven (about 300^* 



PASTRY. 451 

Fahr.). When the top is well baked, turn it over and 
finish it. When cold, cut the whole in strips about two 
inches long, then again across so . as to make pieces of a 
lozenge-shape, and serve as it is or with a sattce for pud- 
dings. 

The same, with Almonds. — Pound well four or six 
ounces of sweet almonds, place them in the bowl with the 
rest, and then mix, bake, and serve as the above one. 

Do the same with hitter almonds^ hazel-nuts, peanuts, 
filberts, and raisins ; flavor with any kind of essence. 

With Chocolate, — ^When the cake is cut in pieces, 
glaze it as directed for eclair an chocolat. 

With Sweetmeats, — ^When the cake is cut in pieces, 
with a sharp-pointed knife, cut off a part of each piece, 
on the top and right in the centre, bo as to make a small 
hole, which you fill with any kind of sweetmeat or with 
any cream, and then serve. When thus served, they are 
called under several names. 

Macaroons, — ^Throw into boiling water for five minutes 
ten ounces of sweet almonds, and two ounces of bitter 
ones ; skin them well ; put in a mortar, and pound them 
to a paste, adding a few drops of the white of eggs during 
the process. Grind well also a pound of white sugar, 
with the quarter of a rind of lemon well grated ; then mix 
well together almonds, sugar, and the whites of two eggs. 
Make balls of any size with it ; put the balls on a piece of 
paper, beat the yolk of an egg with half a gill of water, 
and glaze the top of the balls with it by means of a brush ; 
put them in a slow oven ; it will take about fifteen minutes 
to cook them. 

Macaroons with Chocolate, — Melt on a sloV fire and in 
a tin pan three ounces of chocolate without sugar (known 
as Baker's chocolate) ; then work it to a thick paste with 



4:52 PASTBY. ' 

one pound of pulverized sugar, and three whites of eggs. 
Roll tbe mixture down to a thickness of about one-quarter 
of an inch ; cut it in small round pieces with a paste-cut- 
ter, either plain or scalloped; butter a pan slightly and 
dust it with flour and sugar, half of each, place the pieces 
of paste or mixture in and bake in a hot but not quick 
oven. Serve cold. 

Madeleines, — Mix well together in a bowl three 
ounces of sugar, three of flour, and two eggs, then again 
one ounce of melted butter and a few drops of essence to 
flavor. Butter slightly small tin moulds, dust them 
slightly also with flour and sugar, half of each, turn the 
mixture in, filling the moulds only two-thirds full, and 
bake in an oven at about 340°. Serve cold. 

The same^ with Almonds^ — Chop rather fine some sweet 
almonds, and when the mixture is in the moulds as de- 
scribed above, spread the almonds over them ; bake, and 
serve as above. 

Do the same with kazel-jmts, filberts^ peanuts^ or 
raisins, 

Meringiies or Kisses, — ^Put half a pound of pulverized 
sugar in a plate, beat six whites of eggs to a stiff froth as 
directed, then have somebody to sprinkle the half pound 
of sugar into the eggs, and while you are still beating, 
whiclr must be done in two seconds ; stop beating and 
mix gently with a spoon, not by stirring but by turn- 
ing the whole upside down several times. If it is stirred 
too much, it may turn too liquid. Put the mixture 
in the pastry-bag, with tin tube No. 2 at the end of it; 
spread the mixture on paper in a baking-pan, in oblong 
cakes about three inches long ; dust them with pulverized 
sugar, and put in an oven at from 220° to 230° Fahr. It 
requires some time to dry them, about one hour. As soon 



PASTRY. 453 

as taken from tlie oven, place one in your left hand, the 
top downward ; press gently on the under, side which is 
up, with the first finger of the right hand, so as to make 
a hollow ; put in that hollow twice as much cream as is 
necessary to fill it ; place another cake prepared alike over 
the cream; so that the two will be united and kept 
together by the cream ; do the same with the rest ; place 
them tastefully on a dish; dust them with sugar, and 
serve. They are generally filled with whipped cream, but 
may be filled with creme Ugere or creme cuite. They miay 
also be filled with creme Chantilly, 

Swiss Meringue, — Instead of squeezing the mixture 
out and spreading it in oblong cakes, make a crown of it, 
then another and another, four in all, dust and bake in 
the same way ; place them on a dish, one above the other, 
and fill the middle of the dish with cream as above. 
Serve cold. The naixture may also be placed on paper by 
the spoonful, but they are not as sightly as by means of 
the pastry-bag. 

Zephyrs. — Proceed as for meringues as far as mixing 
the sugar with the whites of eggs, when mix also with 
both a few drops of cochineal. Put the mixture in the 
pastry-bag, with tin tube No. 1 at the end of it. Squeeze 
the mixture out and spread it on paper in a baking-pan, 
in different shapes: dentUated, convoluted, overlapping, 
waved, etc., according to fancy, about three inches and a 
half long. Bake in same oven as meringues, and serve 
when cold, as they are. 

Nougat — ^Throw a pound of sweet almonds into boiling 
water for five minutes ; skin them well,'and when cool cut 
them in four or five pieces lengthwise ; then melt a pound 
■ of fine white sugar with two spoonfuls of water, in a cop- 
per or crockery pan, and on a good firej stirring all the 



454 PASTEY. 

time with a wooden spoon ; when well melted, pnt the 
almonds in ; keep stirring about five minutes longer, take 
from the fire, add a little of the rind of a lemon well 
grated, oil the mould, put it on the corner of the range in 
a warm but not too hot place ; put the almonds and sugar 
in the mould, and little by little take off when of a brown 
color, turn on a plate, remove the mould, and serve. 

Pancakes, — Make a thin paste with one pound of flour, 
four eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sweet-oil, one of French 
brandy, a little salt, the necessary quantity of lukewarm 
water and milk, about half of each; let it remain thus 
two or three hours at least ; then put about an ounce of 
lard, butter, or oil in a frying-pan, and set it on a brisk 
fire ; when hot, put some of the paste in it with a ladle, 
spread the paste so as to cover the bottom of the pan ; 
fry on both sides, place it on a dish, dust it with fine 
white sugar on both sides, and serve warm. 

Buckwheat and other pancakes are made in the same 
way. 

Wajffles, — ^Make a thin paste with eight ounces of flour, 
six ounces of pulverized sugar, two eggs, a few drops of es- 
sence to flavor, half a liquor-glass of brandy or rum, and 
milk. Warm and butter both sides of the mould, put some 
of the paste into it, close it gently, set it on the fire, turn 
over to heat both sides equally, dust them with sugar 
when done, and serve either warm or cold. It takes hardly 
a minute for each with a good fire. 

BREAD. 

It is next to aii impossibility to bake bread in a small 
oven ; half the time the bread is too much or not enough 
baked. In cities, where good baker's bread can be bought, 
it comes as cheap as it can be made at home, if not cheaper. 



PABTRY, 455 

and saves a great deal of time and labor. It is not diffi- 
cult to make good bread witb good flour. Tbcre are sev- 
eral ways of making and of using yeast. Some are better 
than others ; but many, though diflierently manipulated, 
bring about the same results. The only difficulty is the 
baking of it. Bakers can almost always bake bread prop- 
erly, having large brick ovens. If they do not bake their 
bread enough, which is generally the case, it is not because 
they cannotj but because under-baked bread is heavier, 
and people, especially the poorer class, buy it in preference 
to the other ; judging by the weight, they think they have 
more of it for a certain sum of monev. Under-baked 
bread is difficult of digestion. {See Food.) 

The best bread is made with the best wheat-flour, all 
that can be said by anybody to the contrary notwithstand- 
ing. Eye, corn, and barley bread are excellent, and may be 
partaken of by those whose constitution, occupation, etc., 
allow it. In every thing, bread included, the people, or 
what may be called " the million," are wiser than soi-dir 
sant philosophers; and if oat-meal or Indian-meal were 
better than wheat-flour, they would be dearer. To de- 
scribe or discuss the innumerable methods of making 
bread would require several volumes. We have perused 
carefully hundreds of them; they nearly all differ theo- 
retically, but practically, when practical (which is not 
always the case), they amount to about the same thing. 
We think that the only difficulty, if difficulty there be, is 
in the use of the yeast, the making of the same, and the 
baking. Chemical processes for rising will never equal 
the processes of nature and time. Many bakers do not 
use the yeast properly, their bread being sour or musty ; 
some sweeten their bread, to disguise an inferior quality of 
flour, or as an antidote to sourness or mustiness. 



456 PABTEY. 

Bread gets dry after a wliile, and is inferior in quality 
and taste. The lighter the bread the better, although 
many do not think so. The belief may come from the 
fact that the lighter bread is the more porous, and there- 
fore the quicker it evaporates and loses its taste. Warm 
bread, besides being injurious to the teeth, is diflBcult of 
digestion. When perfectly cold, let it stand in a dry place, 
neither cold nor warm, for one or two hours, and use. 
We give below the best methods of making bread — ^French 
bread, or rather good light bread, for we do not see that 
it is more French than Chinese or American, as long as it 
can be made everywhere with good flour ; it is certainly 
the best for inhabitants of a large city, and especially for 
those having a sedentary occupation. Let us apply the 
proverb to bread as well as to every thing else : " Feed 
me with food convenient for me^" — Bible, 

Mix well together one gill of good strong yeast with 
half a pound of flour, so that it makes a rather stift' paste. 
Knead so that you shape it like a ball. Make two cuts 
with a knife on the top, across and about one-quarter of 
an inch deep ; then place the paste in a bowl of tepid 
water (milk- warm), the cuts upward. After it has been 
in the water for a few minutes it will float and swell ; let 
it float q.bout two minutes, when take off" and use. Put 
six ounces of flour on the paste-board, and make a hole 
in the middle ; put into it the yeast prepared as above, 
tepid water enough to make an ordinary dough, and salt 
to taste. Knead well, shape according to fancy, put in a 
warm place (about 78 deg. Fahr.) to rise, and bake. It 
requires about six hours to rise. 

Another, — ^Wash and clean thoroughly half a pound 
of potatoes, and then steam them with the skins on. Mash 
them well with half a pint of flour, about half a pint of 



PASTRY. 467 

tepid water, and half an ounce of salt. When thoroughly 
mixed, put away in a warm place (about 78 deg. Fahr.) 
for one hour. Then add and mix with it * half a pint of 
good yeast, and put away in the same place for about nine 
hours. It may take a little longer than nine hours or a 
little less, but it is very easy to know, and in this way : after 
a while "it will rise slowly and gradually for some time, 
and then begin to fall ; as soon as it begins to fall, mix a 
little tepid water with it and strain through a sieve ; throw 
away potato skins and eyes ; mix ^hat is- strained with 
two pounds of flour and tepid water enough to make an 
ordinary dough. Put it away again in the same place 
until it cracks on the top, which will take place in about 
an hour. Then put six pounds of flour on the paste-board, 
and make a hole in the middle ; put into it a little tepid 
water and the dough when cracked ; knead the whole well 
with water enough to make an ordinary dt)ugh, salt to 
taste. To knead it well, it is necessary to raise the dough 
or part of it,* and then throw it back on the paste-board 
with force.. The more the dough is kneaded, the better 
and lighter the bread. Then shape the loaves, let rise, 
and bake in a very quick oven. 

To sTuipe, — Divide the dough, as soon as kneaded, in 
as many parts as you wish to make loaves ; then knead 
each part, one after another, so as to make a kind of ball ; 
then, by rolling and pulling it, give it an elongated, sau- 
sage-like shape. A pound loaf can be made a foot and a 
half long, as well as four inches; it will only be narrower 
and thinner, and will have more crust. When the dough 
is thus elongated, take a round stick or » small rolling-pin, 
place it on the top of the dough, right on the middle, 
lengthwise, and then press on it and roll just a little, to 
and fro, so as to make a kind of furrow in the middle. 
20 



458 PASTBY. 

Have a towel well dusted witli flour, place tlie dougli on 
it upside down, that is, the furrowed side under ; let rise 
as ordinary bread ; twm. it into a pan, but so that the fur- 
rowed side will be up (the side that was down in rising 
must be up in baking) ; dust the fiirrow well with rye- 
flour to prevent the paste from closing, so that the top of 
the loaf will be concave instead of convex when bciked. 

Another, — Steam half a pound of potatoes and mash 
them well; then mix them immediately and while hot 
with about a pint of flour, a quart of water, and half a 
pint of good strong yeast Leave the mixture six hours 
in a rather warm place, then strain through a sieve, press- 
ing the potato-sHns so as to squeeze all the liquid out of 
them. Immediately add to the strained mixture flour 
enough to make ordinary dough, which you knead a little, 
and let stand as it. is from one to two hours and a hal^ 
according to temperature. Knead then with it about six 
pounds of flour, salt to taste, and tepid water to make or> 
dinary dough, and leave it thus two hours, then shape in 
the same way as the above ; put it to rise in the same way 
also (it will take from one to two hours, according to 
temperature) ; dust with rye-flour, and bake.* 

French bread maybe shaped like other bread, round 
or square ; it is just as good. 

Rolls, or rather French rolls as they are generally called^ 
are made, shaped, and baked in the same way. 

It is a mistake to call bread certain mixtures of flour, 
soda, and milk ; or flour, milk, and butter, etc. ; it is no 
more bread than a mixture of carbonic acid, water, alco- 
hol, molasses, vitriol, etc., is wine. No one can give a 
name to such a mixture except chemists. 



BILLS OP FARE. 



DiniMT-Time, — On acconnt of the varioas occnpations 
of members of tlie same family, this is often the first and . 
only time of the day that sees them all assembled. It is the 
dinner that mostly supplies the waste that the system has 
undergone for twenty-four hours. Being taken after the 
day's work is over, it gives to the stomach time to digest 
(mind and stomach never working at the same time). (See 
Food, Economy, Coffee, and Tea.) 

The dinner, being the most substantial meal of the day, 
requires m'ore preparation than any other meal ; the bill 
of fare of it should, therefore, be made the day before, or • 
at least early in the morning. It should always be niade 
between the mistress or master of the house and the cook; 
written and hung in the kitchen, near the clock. The 
'first thing to put down is what may be left firom the pre- 
ceding day, and also what may be in the larder ; then 
what is wanted in butcher's meat or poultry, or both ; the 
fish or game, or both, and which, with vegetables, are ac- 
cording to the market. It is then one of the duties of the 
cook .to make a list of what is wanted as accessories; such 
as flour, eggs, sugar, spices, etc. 



4:60 BELLB OF FARE. 

Besides the above, it is also the duty of the Qook to 
send the dishes to the table in their regular order ; for, if 
the whole dinner is sent at once, all the dishes have to 
be eaten at once also, else the last get cold and are un- 
palatable, or, by mixing thein, they are rendered tasteless, 
as the flavor of one neutralizes (if it does not destroy) the 
taste of another. 

To make models of bills of fare ig not difficult, but to 
follow them is nearly impossible ; hardly one in a hundred 
would suit any one. 

Bills of fare vary according to the season of the year, 
and therefore to the produce in the market. 

We will try to give another, and we think a better 
way of making them to suit everybody, every purse, and 
at any time. 

A dinner, no matter how grand, is composed of three 
courses, and seven kinds of dishes. 

The first course comprises dishes of four kinds, viz. : 
potages, hors-d*oeuvre9, releves, and. entries. 

The second course comprises dishes of two kinds, viz. : 
rots and entremets. 

The third .course comprises dishes- of one kind, the 
dessert. 

The number of dishes of each kind is generally ac- 
cording to the number of guests. 

It may also be according to the importance of the oc- 
casion for which the dinner is given; to the honor the 
giver or givers wish to show the personage or personages 
invited ; to the amount of money they are willing, to spend, 
etc. 

The following table shows how many dishes of each 
kind are to be served at dinner to a certain number of 
persons : 



BILLS OF VASS. 



The above table shows the number of dbhes, but more 
than one dish of the same kind cao be eerved; foriastanee, 
four kinds of potages, relevea, etc., are served for forty; 
but two or four dishes of each kind can be served. 

The size of the releves and r6ti should be according to 
the number of guests. 

It is just as easy to select dlahea for a small family- 
dinner as for a grand one ; two, three, four, or more dishes 
can be selected ; for instance, you select a potage, an en- 
tree or r6l, or both, one Vegetable or a sweet dish, or both ; 
and one or as many plates of dessert as yon please. 

Have a bouquet on- the middle of the table, if possible, 
or at least a basket of fruit. Flowers during dinner have 
the same effect as music after it; they soften the manners, 
and gently and sweetly gratify the senses. 

To simplify and render tie making of bills of fare easy, 
we have divided the different dishes into seven parts, each 
part beingin the order the dishes of which must be served, 
and representing the seven kinds of dishes composing a 
dinner. By this means you select the dish or <^shes which 
suit you, and which you can procure in any or all of the 
seven parts, and yonr bill of fare is made, and more to 
your liking than any steward on earth can do. 

Order of dishef. — 1. Folates. 2. Hora-d'auvres. 
3. Beleveg : of fish, and then of meat 4. Entreie : beef, 



462 BILLS OF FASK 

mutton, lanib, veal, fisli, poultry, and game last. 5. Hots : 
of meat, and then of fish. 6. Entremets : salads of greens, 
vegetables, eggs, macaroni, sweet dishes, and cakes. 7. 
Dessert : cheese the first. ^ 

Mrst. part, or Potages. — ^y kind coming under the 
head of potages or soups. 

Second part, or Jffors-cTceuvres, — ^These are small 
dishes placed on the table as soon as the soup-dish is re- 
moved or even before, and which are removed just before 
serving the sweet dishes of the entremets. They are passed 
round after every dish, on account of being considered 
* more as appetizers, as repairers of the natural waste of ani- 
mal life. Very little of them is partaken of at a time; 
they are anchovies ; artichockes, raw ; picMed heets ; but- 
ter ; caviare ; cervelas ; ■ raw cucumbers ; Jigs ; every kind 
oifish, salted, smoked, pickled, or preserved in oil; every 
kind of pickled fruit ; horse-radish ; horse-radish butter ; 
melons; hToiled mushrooms ; olives; raw and pickled 
oysters ; steamed potatoes served with butter; radishes 
and butter ; sardines ; saudssons ; sausages, salt and 
smoked, but not firesh ; salted and smoked tongue ; tunny ; 
walnuts in salad. 

Third part, or Meleves, — Releves are composed of fish 
and large pieces of meat. A fish served whole is always 
a releve ; in pieces, it is an entree. Pieces of beef, m,utUm, 
and porJc, roasted, are always served as relevSs. At a 
family dinner the releve is almost always a fish. The 
other pieces of meat that are served as relevis are : bear^ 
buffalo, boiled, and corned beef, leg and saddle of mutton, 
quarters of lamb, large pieces of veod ; also all vol-au-vent 
of meat and of fish, boucheSs and Jishrjnes. 

Fourth part, oi Entries, — These comprise every dish 
of meat, except poultry and game, when roasted ; every 



. BILLS OF FARE. 463 

dish of fish not served whole ; also p6,Us de foies gras^ 
sour-kroutj snails, meat-pies, terrines, pains of game and 
of poultry. The dishes of meat mentioned in the reUves 
may be served as entrees at a family dinner. The order 
of the Siish^s is described above. 

Fifth part, or R6ts, — Poultry, game, and fish. At a 
family dinner, lamh and veal are often served as roasted 
pieces, especially at seasons when there is no game, and 
poultry is scarce. 

Sixth part, or Entremets, — The following are served as 
entremets : all salads of greens ; all dishes of vegetables, of 
omelets, except four, viz., with bacon, salt pork, ham, and 
kidneys. Also dishes of macaroni, of rice, eggs a la neige, 
all sweet dishes (sweet dishes are also served as dessert), gmd • 
cakes ; such as haha^ brioche, genoj>ses, madeleines, savarin, 
and sponge-cake. 

Seventh pari, or Dessert, — The dessert comprises ripe 
fruit, sweet dishes (these are also served as entremets, ac- 
cording to taste), pastry (except meat-pies, terrines, and 
pains), salads of fruits, and cheese. The latter is always 
served the first {see Cheese). After cheese, there is no 
rule for serving the other plates of dessert ; it is according 
t« each one's taste. 

Punch is served ?ffcer the entrees or after the releves of 
fish, according to taste. 

Early Breakfast, — We are of opinion that everybody 
ought to eat as little meat as possible, and drink no wine, 
beer, or any other liquor at an early breakfast, no matter 
what the sex or age may be^ except when prescribed J^y 
the physician in case of sickness, debility, etc. The food 
may be ^elected from the following: bread and butter^ 
eggs, omelets, fried fish, fried vegetables, sardines, a,nd fruit, 
according to the season. 



464 BELLS OF FAEE. 



■^. i 



As for meat, in case it should be eaten, it ought to be 
cold, such as fowl or veal, cooked the day before. < i 

MuflSns, and other cakes or pastes, served warm, are 
verv bad for the stomach and teeth. 

The beverage ought to be either coffee, with milk, 
chocolate, cocoa, choca, or cold water, but do not by any , 
means drink tea ^ breakfast ; it is too astringent. 

Although cold meat is not by far so injurious as warm 
meat for breakfast, it ought, nevertheless, to be as little 
partaken of as possible, and especially by- the young. 

Late Breakfast, Lunch, Tea^ and early Supper, — ^At 
these meals the following dishes may be served : 

Every dish served as a hors-tToeuvre, calf^s head and 
I fe(?t, bear hamSy head-cheese, eggs cooked in any way, omelets^ 
mutton chops, veal cutlets, fried fish, ripe fruit, boned 
birds, ham, cold meat of any kind, oysters, pdte defoiesgras, 
salads of chicken, or any other birds, and of lobster, sand- 
wiches, sardines, fried vegetables, sweet dishes, and pastry. 

Late Supper. — ^This being the last meal taken before 
retiring, persons should be careful about what they eat then, 
especially those who take no bodily exercise, or retire soon 
after it. Some are not aware that their test depends 
nearly, if not entirely, on wl^at they have eaten at supper. 
The lighter the food the better; such as fried ^A, sar- 
dines, lait de poule, bavaroise, well-ripened fruit, a cream, a 
little iced fruit, fruit-jelly, prunes, etc. 

The gastronomical or hygienic rule to be observed in 
eating, it will be seen, is therefore, after the soup and 
h^s-d'oeuvres, to commence with the heaviest or most sub- 
stantial dishes, and to finish with the lightest. The rule is 
just the opposite for wines. Here we must comn^nce with 
the lightest, and end with those which contain the most 
alcohol, and are consequently ihe heaviest. 



INDEX. 



Allumettes; 413. 
Almonds, 44. 
Anchovy, 144. 

batter. 99. 

cake, 438. 

ealad, 353. 
Aniee, 16. 
Apples, au beurre, 878. * 

charlotte, 379. 

dumplings, 481. 

flamoantes, 378. 

fried, 400. 

meringa6es, 379L 

pie, 440. 

syrap, 380. 

in compote, or stewed, 385. 

" fritters, 379. 

\'jeUy,4. 

pine-apple, 380. 

with nee, 874. 
" sweetmeats, 330. 
Apricots, IB. 

in compote, 385. 

" jeUy, 406. 

" salad, 352. 

iced, 397. 
Artichokes, 306. 

fried, 806. 

(Jerusalem), 307. 
Asparagus, 307. 

fried, 308. 

en petits pois, 307. 

in omelet, 306. 

with cream, 808. 
" - vinaigrette, 308. 
" white sauce, 308l 
Aspic, 275. 

.Baba, 449. 
Bacon, 16. 
B^n-marie, 16. 
Bakepans, 17. 
Baking, 9. 
Bananas, 393. 

80* . 



Barley, 76. 

lemonade, 44. 
sugar, 45. 
Bass, 132, 135, 186. 
Batter, 30. 
Bavaroise, 45. 
Bay-leaf, 17. 
Beans (string), 308. 
au JUS, W9. 
mattre d'hOtel, 309. 
in salad, 309, 350. 
with onions, 309. 
pickled, 353. 
(L^jma), 309. . 
au jus, 310. 
(dry), 310. 
mattre d'hCtel, 310. 
with ham, 311. 
" mutton, 311. 
" salt pork, 310. 
. in pur6e, 120. 
stewed, 311. 
Bear-meat, 277. 
« ham, 277. ' 

Beef, 162. 

& la mode, 163. 
baked, 167. 
in daube, 164. 
roasted, 165. 
with garnitures, 166. 
decorated, 167. 
stewed, 164. 
fillet larded, 168. 

with mushrooms, 169. 
" truffles, 169. 
potatoes, 169. 
tomatoes, 169. 
quenelles, 169. 
Madeira sauce, etc., 169. 
en beUevue, 170. 
ribs, 170. 

with mushrooms, etc., 171. 
steaks, 171. 
broiled, 172. 



[ 






11 



466 



INDEX. 



Beef: 

Bteaks with potatoes, 172. 

" water-cress, etc., 173. 
" mashfooms, 173. 
" trufELes, Its. 
saat^B, 171. 
fimcy, 173. 
tenderlom, 168. 
low cuts, 171. 
boUed or cold, 174. 
hashed, 177. 
in croquettes, 175. 
" miroton, 176. 
" salad, 177. 
au gratin, 176. 
ynm vegetables, etc., 175, 
corned, 177. 

en belleTue, 178. 
brain, 179. 
heart, 179. 
kidneys, 180. 
liver, 180. 
tail, 181. 
tongae, 178. 

(smoked), 183. ' 
with sauces, 183. 
in hors-d'oeuvre, 183. 
" beUevue, 183. 
tripe, 181. 

broiled, 182. 
poulette, 1^. 
stewed, 182. 
pickled, 183. 
Beets, 17. 
boiled, 17. 
pickled, 853. 
stewed. 813. 
in salad, 860. 
Beignets souffles, 422. 
Berries, iced, 898. 
preserved, 402. 
with milk, 401. 
" liquor,^!, 
in salad, 852. 
Bichof, 45. 
Bills of fare, 459. 
Birds, 278, 279. 

preserved, 46. 
Biscottes, 448. 
Biscuits, 426. 
almonds, 426. 
chocolate, 426. 
glazed, 426. 
with filberts, etc., 427. 
vanilla. 426. 
of Rheime, 427. * 
Blackberries, 352. 
in compote, 386. 
" jelly, 406. 
preserved, 402. 
Black-birds, 278. 
Black-flsh, 132, 135. 
Blanc-mange, 380. 



Blanc-manger, 881. 
Blanch, 305. 
Blanquette, 205. 
Blue-fish, 132, 135. 
Bobolink, 278. 
Boiling, 9. 
Boned turkey, 260. 
Border of paste, 244. 

" rice, 373. 
Bouch^s, 420. 

of fish, 421. 

" birds, 421. 

" oysters, 421. 

" lobster, etc., 421. 
Boulettes, 117. 
Bouquet, 461. 
Brain, 214. 
Braising, 18. 
Bread, l64r468. 

cnmiDM, 46. 

farce, 113. 

puddmg, 445. 
Break&st. 453. 
Brioche, 449. 
Bfoccoll, 318. 



Broiling, 10. 
BrothTBl-'J'O. 



Brown-butter, 100, 
Buffalo, 277. 

steaks, ^77. 
Buckwheat cakes, 431. 
Bunch of seasonings, 18. 
Burnt sugar, 47. 
Butter, 409. 

anchovy, 99. 

lobster, etc., 118, 119. 

melted, 119. 

scented, 119. 
Buttered paper, 18, 

Cabbage, 313. 

ik la cr^me, 313. 

with apples, 813. 
" bacon, 318. 

garniture, 113. 

m salad, 348. 

" sour-krout, 515. 

stewed, 813. 

stuffed, 814. 

pickled, 353. 

red, 314. 
Cabinet pudding, 445. 
Cafig au lait, 51. 

noir, 51. 
Cake, 428. 

almond, 428. 

apple, 429. 

com, 431. 

cream, 423. 

eurrant, 4SS8. 

filbert, 428. 

fourr^, 428. 

hazel-nut, etc., 428. 



IKDEX. 



467 



Cake: 

hard, 429. 

heavy, 429. 

Madeleine, 452. 

Milanais, 429. 

Nantais, 428. 

Pithiviere, 415. 

plum, 433. 

pound, 482. 

rico, 873. 

Saint Honors, 428. 

Sayaiin, 480. 
. Bhort, 482. 

sponge, 481. 

tea, ^. 

Yiennois, 488. 

with jelly, 483. 
Calfs brain, 214. 

ears, 215. 

feet, 215. 
" JeDy, 53. 

head, 21«, 217. 
en tortae, 218. 
sonp, 86. 

heart, 218. 

kidneys, 219. 

lights, 220. • 

Uver, 221. 

pluck, 222. 
. sweetbreads, 223. 

in vol-au-yent, 419. 

tail, 223. 

tongue, 223. 
Candied fruit, 403. 
Capon, 266. 
Caramel, 47. 

Cardoon, 816. • 

Carp, 132, 135. . 
Carrots, 316. 

B^hamel, 316. 

fines herbes, 317. 

glazed, 317. 

au jus. 317. 

pometie, 317. 

stewed, 317. 

with sugar, 318. 

in purSe, 122. 
" soup, 77. ■ 
Catsup, 18. 

mushroom, 827. 

tomato, 854. 
Cauliflowers, 818. 

Bechamel, 318. 

gratin, 318. 

whit^ sauce, 819. 

fried, 319. 

stewed. 819. 

in salad, 820. 

with cream, etc., 319. 

pickled, 363. 
Caviare, 18. 
Celery, 320. 

fried, 320, 



Celery: 

in salad, 848, 849. 

" purge, 122. 
Cervelas, 19. 
Charlotte of fruit, 883. 

Francaise, 882. 

Polonaise, 882. 

Busse, 88i. 

Italienne, 882. 

ft la Chantilly, 882. 

apple, 879. 
Chartreuse, %84. 
Cheese, 19. 

h la cr^me, 883. 
Cherries in brandy, 406. 

compote, 386. 

pie, 440. 

glazed, 896. 

preserved, 402. 
Chervil, 19, 
Chestnuts, 350. 

candied, 406. 

glazed, 396. 

in compote, 387. 
" puT^e, 121. 
Chiccory, 320. 

in salad, 348. 

(wild), 348. 
Chicken, 238. . 

to truss, etc., 238-241. 

baked, 261. 

boiled, 241. 

boned, 242. 

broiled, 242. 

witb sauce, 242, 243. 

croquettes, 243. ' * 

fricassee, 244. 

supreme, 246, 247. 

flnancidre, 246. 

fran9aise, etc., 246. 

Marengo, etc., 248. 

roasted. 249. 

with sauce, 2^. 

" garniture,' 260. 
decorated, 260, 251. 

Baut6, 261, 262. 

with Champagne, 262. 

stewed, 263. 

stuffed, 263, 254. 

in pie, 
" purge, 119. 

vol-au-vent, 419. 

cold, 264. 

in salad, 256. 

preserved, 46^ 

broth, 65. 
Choca.62. 
Chocolate, 61. 

iced. 398. 
Choux,428. 
Chowder, 159. 
Clama, 159. 

baked, 161. 



h 



468 



INDEX. 



i 



dams : chowder, 159. 

Bonp, 92. 
Ck)climcal,'19. 
Cocoa, 53. 
Cocoa-nut, 352. 
Cod-fish, 138. 

staffed, 181. 

(salt), 145, 146. 
Coffee, 47. 

iced, 898. 
Colander, 19. , 

Cold weather, 22. 
Colored beans, 310. 
Compotes, 884. 

apples, 385. 

cnerries, 886. 

oranges, 886. 

berries, 886. 

peaches, etc., 385. 

symp, 384. 
Contents, 7. 
Cooking, 9. 
Com (sweet), 321. 

cake, 431. 
Corn-salad, 848. 
Corn-starch, 75, 
Consommg 64. 
Caulis of fish, 101. 

veal, 101. 
Courses, 460. 
Crabs, 153. 
Cranberries, 387, 

compote, 387. 

pie, 441. 
Craw-fish, 1^. 
Cream, 387. 

sweet, 892. 

cheese, 383. 

an caf6, 888. 

ChantUly, 892. 

caramel, 889. 

chocolate, 389. 

cuite, 890.« 

essence, .890. 

frangipane, 890. 

ice, 392, 

16g^re, 891. 

lemon, 387. 

orangev390. 

patissiere, 391. 

renversee, 391. 

tea, 890. 

vanilla, 390. 

whipped, 892. 

cakes, 423. 
Oroque en bouche, 394. 
Croquettes of veal, etc., 206. 

chicken, 243. 

potato, 838. 

rice, 873. 
CroqnignolLes, 450. 
Croutons, 114; 
Crullers 431. 



Crumbs, 30, 46. 

white, 46. 
Cucumbers; 321. 

in hors-d'oeuvre, 322. 

pickled, 355. 

in salad, 350. 

stuffed, 822. 
Currants, 

compote, 388. 

glazed, 397. 

iced, 398. 

jelly, 406. 

salad', 852. 

(dried), 57. 
Curry, 20. 
Custard, 398. 

Dandelion, 323. 

in salad, 348. 
Dessert, 463. 
Dining-room, 20. 
Dinner, 459. 

directions, 16. 
Dish, 20. 

Dishes (order of), 461. 
Divers receipts, 44. 
Doughnuts, 432. • 
Draining, 20. 
Drinking, 21. 
Duck, 2^. 

apple sauce, 265. - 

cranberry sauce, 265. 

baked, 265. 

roasted, 265. 

with turnips, 267. 
" currant-jelly, 265. 
" gahiiture, 265. 

saut^, 266. 

with peas, etc., 266. 

stuffed, 268. 

boned, 268. 

preserved, 46. 
. cold in salmis, 268. 

** croquettes, 268. 
" s^lad, 268. 
Duckling, 264. 
Dust, to, 21. 

Ears, 215. 
Eclairs, 424. 
,aucaf<6, 425. 

" chocolate, 424. 

" tea, 425. 

" vanilla, 425. 

" currants, 425. 

" strawberries, 425. 

" jellies, 426. 



. * 



u 



essence, 425. 



Economy, 23. 
Eels, 136. 

broiled, 136. 

fried, 137. 
! roasted, 137. 



HTDEZ 



469 



Eels: in matelote, 137. 

etuffed, 187. 

in vol-au-vent, 419. 
Eggs, 856. 

beater,. 24. 

crnmbs to fly, 80. 

whites (to beat), 863. 

Bechamel, 367. 

boiled, 359. 

fried, 360. 

au giatin, 858. 

h. la tripe, 362. 
" neige, 362. • 

poached, 362. 

scrambled, 360. 

staffed, 358. 

Lyonnaise, 357. 

snr le plat, etc., 860. 

in matelote, 861. 

fricassee, 357. 

with'vegetables, 359, 361: 
" cheese, 357, 358. 
" ham, etc., 859. 
" lines herbes, 367. 
" sances, 858. 

garniture, 116. 

m salad, 850. 
Egg-plant, 823. 
Endive, 320. 

in salad, 848. 
Entries, 462. 
Eotremets, 468. 
Epigramme, 199. 
Errors in cooking, 24. 
Escalops, 158, 206. 
Essence of beef, 52. 
spinach, 62. 

• 

Fanchonnettes, 416. 
Fans, 416. 
Farces, 113. 

bread, 113. 

cabbage, 113. 

confbs, 113. 

croutons, 114. 

dnxelle, 114. 

egg^ 115. 

financiSre, 115. 

liver. 115. 

Macedoine, 116. 

mnshroom, 116. 

onion, 116. 

quenelles, 116. 

salpicon, 117. 

truffles, 117. 
Fat (chicken, etc.), 29. 

to clarify, 29. 

for frying, 29. 
Fecnla, 76. 
Fetanel, 25. 
Feaillet^s, 413. 

k la Cond^, 414. 
Figs, 25. 



It 



Fillet, 168. 
Fines herbes, 25. 
Fish, 125. 

to keep, 88. 

quality, 36. 

to select, 125. 

clean for boiling, 125. 
'' baking, etc., 125. 

same species, 125. 

to know when cooked enough, 

126. • 
" improve, 126. 
" bone, 126. 
" skin, 126. 
" decorate, 127. 

kettle, 127. 

baked, 128. 

balls, 128. 

boiled, 129. 

broiled, 129. 

cold, 144. 

fried, 129. 

tk la Orly, 130. 

roasted, 180. 

saut^, 181. 

stewed, 181. 

stuffed, 181. 

& la crdme, 186. 

anchovy butter, 129. 

sauce, 136, 136. 

Bechamel, 136. 

Bordelaise, 148. 

Bretonne, 136. 

caper-sauce, 130, 185, 136 

court-bouillon, 185. 

cream-sauce, 186. 

egg-sauce, 186. 

flnes-herbes sauce, 186. 

gendvoise-sauce, 135. 

genoise-sauce, 135. 

gratin-sauce, 132, 185. 

HoUandaise sauce, 130, 135, 186. 

Italienne sauce, 135. 

Mattre d'hOtel sauce, 129, 136. 

matelote sauce, 132, 136. 

Mayonnaise, 130. 

piquante, 130. 

poivrade, 180. 

r^mokde, 130. 

Tarter, 185. 

tomato, 180, 135, 186. 

vinaigrette, 184-136. 

bass, 130, 132. 

black-fish, 180, 182. 

blue-flsh, 130, 132. 

cod, 136. 
" (salt), 146. 

eels, 182, 136. 

flounder, 130, 137. 

haddock, 1^. 

halibut, 186. 

herring, 130. 

(salt), 147. 



n 



1 



4Y0 



HsIDEX. 



Fish: 

mackerel, 185. 
" (salt), 148. 

pike, lao, 1S2, 139. 

porgy. 180, 182. 
• ray, 189. 

Balmon, 140. 

efaad, 1^ 

BheepVhead, 143. 

Bkate, 189. 

trout, 132, ld9f 

turbot, 148, 144. 

wbite-fiBh, 180. 

clams, 169. 

lobster, 149, 158. 

oysters, 166. 

floattnc^ island, 862. 

Allemande sauce, 187. 
baked, 187. 
I^ormande, 187. 

'' another, 188. 
boned and fried, 189. 
Flour, 25. 
Foies-gras, 25. 
Fondue, 862. 
Food, 22. 
Fox, 297. 
Frangipane, 390. 
Fricandean, 211. 
Fritters, 893. 
Frogs, 149. 

Fromage IL la crdme, 888. 
Fruitri06. 

corer, 26. 

candied, 408. 

glazed, 894. 

iced, 397. 

for dessert, 401. 

prescrred, 358. 

" in liquor, 405. 
Frying, 11. 

batter for, 30. 

fat " 29. 

lard " 28. 

directions for, 11. 

eggs and crumbs for, 80. 

Galantine, 20. 
Galette, 416, 460. 

du gymnase, 416. 
Qame, 276. 

pie, 434. 
Garlic, 25. 
Garnish, 113. 
Garnishing, 118. 
Garnitures, 118. 
G6nolBe, 460. 

with almonds, etc., 461. 
'' chocolate, etc., 461. 
Gibelotte, 298. 
Giblets, 278. 
Glazing, 26. 
Godiyeau, 117. 



Goose, 268. 

apple-sauce, etc., 868. 
Gooseberries in jelly, 886. 
Gosling, 268. 
Grapes, 402. 

in jelly, 406. 

glazed, 897. 
Grayy of meat, 65. 

ffsh, 101. 
Grouse, 280. 
Guinearfowl, 268, 

Haddock, 136. 
HaUbut, 186. 
Ham, 228. 

boiled, 228. 

in hors-d^cenvre, 228. 

with pur^e, 228. 

decorated, 230. 

roasted, 229. 

with sauces, 290, 23L 
Hard cake, 429. 
Hare, 280-282. 
Hazel-nut butter, 119. 
Head-cheese, 234. 
Herb broth, 91. 
Herring, 130. 

salt, 147. 

red. 148. 
Highholders, 279. 
Hominv, 824. 
Hors-d^oeuvres, 462. 
Horse-radish, 462. 
Hot weather, 21. 

Ice-cream, 892. 

Iced fimit, 397. 

Icing, 63. 

Ignorance in cooking, 24. 

Indigestion, 26. 

Isinglass, 26. 

Italian pastes, 26. 

Jam, 884. 
JeUies, 53, 898. 

sweet or wine, 398. 

Mac^oine, 899. 

cold, 899. 

meat, 63. 

broth, 68. 

chicken, 53. 

turkey, 68. 

calTs-foot, 53. 

fruit, 406. 
Jelly-bag. 27. 
Juice or jus, 65. 
Julienne, 73, 74. 

Kid, 201. 

Kitchen utensils, 27. 

Kisses, 462. 

^y's-flngers, 427. 



I 



■Hi 



TSDE3L 



471 



Lait de poule, S8. 
Lamb, 198. 

^pigiamme, 109. 

fore-quarter, 198. 

hind-quarter, 199. 

entire, 800. 

cold, aoo. 

feet, 201. 

kidney8,201. 
Lapwing, 279. 
Lardj28. 
Lardins:, 31. 

needle, 81. 
Leaven, 32. 
Leeka, 824. 
Lemon in compote, 386. 

iced, 898. 

pie, 441. 
Lemonade, 44. 
LentUs, 324 

pur6e, 120. 

Boup, 81. 
Lettuce, 324. 

in salad, 848. 
Lima beans, 809. 
Liver, 115. ^ 
Lobster, 149. 

to boil, 160. 

bisque, TO. 

croquettes, 152. 

butter, 118. 

Med, 152. 

another, 152. 

in bouch6es, 420. 

" vol-au-vent, 419. 
" pie, 439. 
'' salad, 151. 

another, 161. 
'' the shell, 150. 

scalloped, 152. 
Loin, 213. 
Lunch, 464. 

Macaroni, WO. 

croquetieSjSTO. 

au gratln, 8TO. 

Itauenne, 871. 

Napolitaine, 871. 

potage, 77. 
Macaroons, 451. 

with chocolate, 461. 
Mac^doine jelly, 899. 

salad, 852. 

omelet, 869. 

gEurniture. 115. 
erel, 185. 
salt, 148. 
Spanish, 186. 
Maddeines, 462. 
Marmalades; 401. 
Matelote. 18^184. 
Meadow-lark, 279. 
Meat, 86. 



Meat: 

to cook, 82. 
" keep, 83. 
pies, 488. 
jelliQS, 68. 
gravy, 65. 
Melons, 66. 
iced, 898. 

melted butter, li9< 
Meringues, 462. 
apple, 879. 
Chantilly,468. 
Swiss, 453. 
Meunidre, 56. 
Mince-pie, 441. 
Mint, 66. 
Miroton, 176. 
Mixing, 12. 
Mock-turtle soup, 86. 
Motto, 48. 
Moulds, 84. 
Muffins, 432. 
Mulberries, 386, 406. 
Muscles, 153, 154. 
Mushrooms, 325, 827. 
broiled, 326. 
puree, 123. 
catsup, 337. 
gamitnie, 116. 
Mustard, 348. 
Mutton, 184. 
baked, 185. 
. roasted, 184. 

decorated, 186. 
with vegetables, 186. 
haricot, 186. 
breast broiled, 186. 
with sauces, 187. 
■ on purees, 187. 
chops. Drolled, 187. 

with vegetables, 188. 
in papiUotes, 188. 
with sauces, 188. 
sautees, etc., 187. 
leg, 190. 

boiled, 192. 
decorated, 191. 
with vegetables, 190. 
" currant-Jelly, 190. 
'' sauces, 190, 191. 
stewed, 191. 
cold, 192. 
baked, 190. 
roasted, 190. 
.with pur6e, 190. 
neck, 187. 
saddle, 198. 
baked, 198. 
roasted, etc., 193. 
shoulder, 192. 
boiled, 193. 
boned, 192. 
stnfl'ed, 192. 



472 



INDEX. 



Hatton: 

on purees. 192. 

roasted, 193. 

frith Bsaces, 193, 
cold, in Tinaigrette, 193, 191 

" croquettee, 186. 
brain, etc., 194. 



Nastnrtinm, 360. 
Nougat, 463. 
Noimles, 375. 

Oi], 347. 
Oiled papeis 18. 
Okra, 88. 
Olivee, 34. 
Omelet, 863, 364. 
Celestine, 866. 
Mac^oine, 369. 
sooffl^e, 369. 
aax fines herbes, 366. 
an naturel, 366. 
with bacon, 366. 
" fruit, 366. 
" cheese, 367. 
" ham, etc., 388. * 
" kidneys, 867. 
" lobster, 367. 
" mushrooms, 367. 
'^ oysters and fish, 370. 
" rum, 868. 
" sorrel, 367. 
" sugar, 867. 
* sweetmeats, 870. 
" vegetables, 366. 
Onions, 827. 
glazed, 328. 
in pur6e, 123. 
" garniture, 116. 
" salad, 861. 
pickled, 853. 
Opossum, 297. 
Orangeade, 44. 
Oranges, compote, 886. 
glazed, 894. 
Iced, 398. 
preserved, 405. 
salad, 352. 
pie, 440. 
Order of dishes, 461. 
Osmazome, 34. 
Otter, 297. 
Oysters, 165. 
raw, 155. 
in bouch^es, 421. 
" patties, 421. 
" vol-au-vent, 419. 
" poulette, 158. 
broiled, 157. 
fried, 156. 
roasted, 157. 
stewed, 158. 
scalloped, 157. 



Oysters: 

fk la Washington, 158. 

pickled, 158. 

soup. 90. 
Oyster-plant, 842. 

Pain perdu, 394. 
Pains of game, ^8. 
Panade, &6. 
Pancakes, 431, 454. 
Pap, 56. 
Paper, buttered, 18. 

oiled, 18. 
Papillotes, 210. 
Parsley, 35. 
Parsnip, 328. 

saut^, 328. 

stewed, 829. 
Partridge, 282. 
Paste, 410. 

puff, 410-413. 

for meat-pies, 434. 
Pastry, 408. 
_ bag, 36. 
Pfite a chouz, 422. 
Pftt^. 433. 

de foies-gras, 25. * 
Patties (bouuiSes), 420. 
Peacock, 282. 
Peaches, baked, 401. 

in compote, 886. 

"Jelly, 406. 

" pie, 440. 

" salad, 862. 

iced, 897. 

preserved. 401. 

candied, 403. 
Pears, in compote, 386. 
" salad, 852. 

candied, 404. 

glazed, 396. 

iced, 397. 

preserved, 402. 

^yp^Vi 380. 
Peas ^een), 329. 

bwled, 329. 
' au jus, 330. 

with ham, etc.. 830. 
" sugar, 380. 

in pnr^, 121. 

(canned), 330. 

(dry), 330. 

(split), 330. 

in soup, 80. 

preserved, 864. 
Pepper, 36. 
Perai, 132, 135. 
Petits fours, 4ia . 

pains, 426. 

au chocolat, etc., 424. 
Pheasant, 282. 
Pickerel, 139. 
Pickled cucumber, 355. 



DtDEZ. 



473 



Pickles, 853. 


Potages: 
fish, 65. 


Pies, 433. 


decorated, 485 


made quickly, 70. 
bisqne of lobster, 70. 


fruit, 440. 


meat, 437. 


" crabs, 72. 


fish, 489. 


" craw-fish, 72. 


game, 436. 


bouillabaisse, 72. 


mince, 441. 


consomme, 64. 


pot, 442. 


Colbert, 73. 


Pig's feet, 232. 


fency, 77. 


head, 233. 


Julienne, 73,74. 


kidneys, 234. 


^ la Brunoise, 74. 


(sucking), 285, 236. 


Monaco, 74. 


tongue, 234, 


r^gence, 75. 


Pigeons, 269. 


royale, 75. 


baked, 271. 


an chassenr, 86. 


broUed, 269. 


Chinese, 88. 


fried, 272. 


printanier, 75. 


roasted, 270. 


velont^, 75. 


Btewed, 270. 


with arrow-root, 75. 


Btnffed, 270. 


" barley, 76. 
" bread, 75. 


in chartreuse, 269. 


*' compote, 272. 


" com-Btarch, 75. 


" crapaudine, 278. 


" carrots, 77. 


with vegetables, 269. 


" fecula, 76. 


pie, 436. 


" gruel, 76. 


Pike, 139. 


" giblets, 76. 

" Indian meal, 76. 


genoise sauce, 189. 

with different sauces, 135, 186. 


" Italian pastes, 78. 


in matelote, 132-184. 


" macaroni, 77-79. 


roasted, 180. 


" mackerel, 77. 


Pine-apple, 352. 


" nouilles, 79. 


glazed, 897. 
iced, 398. 


" potatoes, 79. 


"• qneneUes, 80. 


in compote, 886. 


" nee, 80. 


" fritters, 893. 


" sago, 76. 


syrup, 880. 


" semoule, 76. 


Pithiviers, 416. 


" tapioca, 76. 


Plover, 279. 


" tumipB, 80, 
" vermicelli, 77. 


Plnmfl, 402. 


• candied, 404. 


pnr^e Chantilly, 81. 
" aiaCond6, 82L 


rlazed, 897. 
ced, 897. 


" " Crfey, 82. 


in jelly, 406. 


**■ " francaise, 81. 


'' marmalade, 886. 


" " reine, 84-85. 


" pie, 440. 


" of asparagus, 82. 
" " artichokes, 82. 


Plnm-pudding, 447. 


Poached eggs. 862. 
Pommies, 414. 


" " beans, 81. 


" " cauliflowers, 82. 


Porgy, 132, 135. 
Pork, 226. 


" " chestnuts, 82. , 


" " com, 88. 
" " lentils, 81. 


chine, 226. 


cutlets,.327. 


" » Lima, 81. 


leg, 228, 
saJt, 2:31, 


" " peas, 80. 


'* " potatoes, 81. 


ham, 228. 


" " pumpkins, 81. 


ears, etc., 232. 


" " squash, 82. 


Porte manteau, 414 


" " tomatoes, 83, 84. 


Potties, 61, 


" " turnips, 82. 
" " wheat, 82. 


broth for, 62. 


chTcken broth, etc., 65. 


» " fowls, 86. 


veal, 68. 


Soup maigre, 85. 


vegetables, 69. 


mock-turtle, 86. 



474 



INDEX. 



Potagee: 

Boaps, Bporteman^s, 86. 
turtle, 87. 
clam, 92. 
rice, 88. 

beer and mutton, 86. 
mnscle, 92. 
okra, 88. 
oz-cneek, 89. 

" taU, 89. 
oyster, 90. 
pot-an-fen. 61. 
Bheep'B-tall, 89. 
Borrel, 89. 
with cabbage, 90. 
** cauliflower, 91. 
" cheese, 91, 
*' herbs, 91. 
" leeks, 92. 
" milk, 91. 
" onions, 88. 
Allemande, 92, 93. 
Indian, 93. 
Polish, 93. 
Russian, 94. 
Spanish, 95^ 96. 
Potatoes, 830. 
boiled, 831. 
steamed, 831. 
* Allemande, 332. 
Anglaise, 332. 
JSarigoule, 332.. 
B^hamel, 882. 
broiled, 332. « 

duchesse, 339. 
francaise, 333. 
fried, 332. 
Hollandaise, 888. 
Lyonnaise, 834. 
Mattre d'hOtel, 834. 
mashed, 335. 
Parisienne, 832. 
Polonaise, 885v 
Banters, 386. 
Boufflees, 386. 
stuffed, 837. 
swelled, 333. 
in balls, 833,838. 
" cakes, 388. 
" croquettes, 888. 
'' xSatelote, 8^. 
" provencale, 886. 
" pur^e, 121. 
salad, 851. 
with bacon, 830. 
" butter, 839. 
" cream, etc., 840. 
soup, 81. 
sweet, 3^. 
Pot-au-feu, 61. 
Poultry, 237. 
Pound cake, 432. 
Prairie hen, 282. 



Prairie hen : 

baked, 282. 

boned, 288. 

broiled, 283. 

preserved, 46. 

roasted, 286. 

6aut4, ^287. 

stewed, 287. 

with sauces, 287. 
'' Tegetables, 283,984. 
" currant-jelly, 287. 
" garnitures, 287. 
*^ mushroomB, 297. 
" oranges, 287. 

hunter-like, 287. 

larded, 284. 

in chartreuse, 284. 

" crapandine, 287. 

" croquettes, ^88. 

" fricassee, 287, 

" pie, 436. 

" pur^, 119. 

" salad, 288. 

'' salmis, 288. 

" terreen, 488. 
Prawns, 154. 
Preface, 3. 
Preserves of berries, 402. 

of fruits, 401. 

^' meat, 46. 

" Tegetables, 358. 
Prunes, 401. 

glazed, 397. 

pie, 440. 
Puddings, 442. 

bread, 445. 

cabinet, 445. 

macaroni. 447. 

plum, 447. 

tapioca, etc., 447. 

vermicelli, 446. 

sauces. 111. 
Puff-paste, 410^3. 
Pumpkins, 340. 
Punch, 407. 

Roman, 408, 463. 
Purees, of fruits, 

" vegetables, 190-194. 
" meat, 119. 
Purslain, 340. 

Quail, 288. 
• bated, 288. 

roasted, 289. 

vegetables, 290. 

in chartreuse, 290. 

" pie, 436. 

hunter-like, 289. 

^reserved, 46. 

in grape-vine leares, 290. 
Qualityof flsh. 86. 

of meat, eic., 35. 
Quenelles, 117. 



raDEX. 



475 



Quinces, preserved, 408. 
in marmalade, 887. 
" jelly, 406. 

Rabbit, 290. 

baked, 291. 

larded, 291. 

roasted, 298. 

sant^, 294. 

stewed, 294. 

in chartreuse, 291. 

- " civet, 291. 
" croqnettes, 292. 
" gibelotte, 298. 
" Marengo, 298. 
** pie, 4JK. 
" vol-au-vent, 4S0. 

with olives, 298. 
" peas, 294. 
" currant-jelly, 292. 
" sauces. 291, 294. 

sportsman-like, 294. 

cold, 295. 
Baccoon, 297. 
Kadishes, 8^. 
Rail, 279. 
Raisin^, 402. 
Raisins, 57. 
Raspberries, compote, 886. 

jeUy, 406. 
Raw materials, 86. 
Ray, 139. 

au beurre noir, 140. 
Red herring, 148. 
Reed-birdT^. 
Relev^s, 462. 
Rhubarb. 841. 

pie, 441. 
Rice, 872. 

in border, 878. 

cake, 878. 

croquettes, 878. 

flitters, 874. * 

soufl^, 874. 

soup, 80. 

water. 876. 

with fruit, 874. 
Rice-bird, 279. 
Rissoles, 416. 
Roasting, 12. 
Robins, 279. 
Rolls, 468. 
Roman punch, 408. 
ROts, 463. 
Ronz, 109. 
Rum cakes, 430. ' 

Sage, 85. 
Sago, 76. 

Sa&t-HonorS, 428. 
Salads, 847. 

of greens, 848. 
"Irait8,862. 



^Salads : of poultry, 266. 
■ " game, 288. 

" fish, 352. 
Salmis, 296. 
Sahnon, 140. 

broiled, 142. 

in fricandean, 140. 
" Qenevoise, 141. 
" hors-d'oeuvre, 363. 
" papillotes, 140. 
" pie, 439. 
" salad, 141. 
" scallops, 141. 

caper-sauce, X36. 

court bouillon, 140. 

maitre d'hOtel, 140. 

roasted, 180. 

salt, 146, 147. 

smoked, 147. 
Salpicon, 117; 
Salsify, 342. 

B^hamel, etc., 343. 
Sandwiches, 67. 
Sardines, 145. 
Sauce, 97. 

Allemande, 98. 

anchovy, 99. 

apple, 99. 

Bi^hamel, 99. 

blonde, 100. 

bread, 100. 

brown, ItX). 

caper, 100. 

celery, 100. 

Champagne, 106. 

Colbert, 100. 

couUs, 101. 

cranbeny, 99. 

cream, 102. 

craw-fish, 106. 

cucumber, 102. 

currant, 99. 

diplomat, 102. 

Sgg,102. 

Bspagnolle, 102. 

essence, 108. 

fines herbes, 108. 

fish, 108. 

Gendvoise,141. 

G^noise, 108. 
tvy, 65. 
!ollandaise, 104. 

Indian, 104. 

Italian, 104. 

luice, 56. 

lobster, 106. 

Madeira, 105. 

mattre d'hdtel, 105. 

matelote, 182, 138. 

Mayonnaise, 106. 

muscle, HI. 

mushroom, 106. 

oyster, 111. 



Hoi 



476 



lETDEX. 



Sauce: 

Farisieime, 106. 

peach, 99. 

piqnante, 106. 

poivrade, 107. 

Polonaise, 107. 

poolette, 107. 

prawn, 105. 

princesse, 108. 

proven9ale, 108. 

ravigote, 108. 

raspoerry, 99. 

r^molade, 109. 

Bobert, 108. • 

ronx, 109. 

shaUot, 109. 

Bhriihp, 105. 

Bonbise, 109. 

suprdme, 109. 

tarragon, 118. 

Tartar, 108. 

tomato, 110. 

truffle, 110. 

velout^, 110. 
• white, ill. 

vinaigrette, 110. 

for blanc mange, 381. 
" puddings. 111, 112. 
" Bararin, 430. 
SauciBSons, 19. 
Sausages, 19. 
Sausage-meat, 67. 
Saut^mg, 18. 
Sayarin, 480. 
.Scallops, 158. 

on the shell, 159. 

of salmon, 141. 
" veal, 906. 
Scalloped-taufe, 86. 
Seasoning, 14. 
Semoule. 76. 
Shad, 142. 
• broiled, 142. 

^ la Chambord, 142. 

an gratin, 142. 

in proven9ale, 142. 

with Borrel, 142. 

stuflfed, 187. 

roasted, 180. 
Shallots, 87. 
Sheep's brain, 194. 

fiet, 194. 

kidneys, 196. 

tongue, 197. 
Sheep's-head fish, 142, 143. 
Short-cake, 432. 
Shrimps, 154. 
Simmering, 14. 
Skate, 139. 
Skewers, 37. 
Skirret, m 
Skunk, 298. 
Small birds, 278, 279. 



Small flsh, 126. 
Smelts, 129. 
Smoked tongue, 183. 
Snails, 303. 
Snipe, 279, 295. 
Sole, 137. 
Sorrel, 342. 

au jus. 343. 

in puree, 343. 

" salad, 350. 

" ^up, 89. 

S reserved, 343. 
1^8,400. 
Soups, 61. 
Sour-kroul, 615. 
Souse, 58. 

Spanish mackerel, 13S. 
Sparrow-grass, 307. 
Spices, 38. 
Spinach, 343. 

au beurre, etc., 345. 

" jus, 844. 

" Sucre, 344. 

k la crdme, 344. 

essence, 62. 
Sponge cake, 431. 
Sportsman's soup, 86. 
Sprats, 145. 
Sprouts, 845. 
Squash, 840. 
Squirrel, 299. 
Steaks, 171. 

turtle, 88. 
Sterlet, 143. 
Stewing, 14. 
Stirring, 89. 
Straining, 39. 
Strawberry, glazed, 896. 

iced, 398. 

in compote, 886. 

" fritters, 393. 

" jelly, 406. 

" salad, 352.* 

" short-cake, 43S. 
Stuffing of birds, 258. 

fisE,131. 
Sturgeon, 140. 
Succory, 320. 
Succotash. 821. 
Sucking-pig,235. 

baked, 235. 

boned, 236. 

roasted, 235. 

decorated, 236. 
Sugar, 39, 876. 

burnt, 47. 

cooked, 376. 

dusted, 21. 

pulverized, 89. 

syrup, 376. 
Sun-flsh, 132. 
Supper, 464. 
I Syrup for compotes, 381. 



rnoEz. 



477 



Syrnp: 

sugar, 876. 

apple, 880. 
Sweetbreads, S23. 
Sweet dishes, 876. 

potatoes, 840. 

Tapioca, 447. 
Tarragon, 40. 
Tarts. 441. 
Tartelettes, 414. 
Tasting, 14. 
Tea, 58. 

cake. 433. 

(meal), 464. * 

Tench, 182. 
Tenderloin, 168. 
Terrapin, 87. 
Terreen, 438. 
Thrush, 279. 

Thermometer, 410. , 

Thyme, 85. 
Tin tubes, 40. 
Toasts, 59. 
Tomatoes, 34S. 

salad, 351. 

stuffed, 846. 

stewed, 845. 

preserved, 854. 

catsup, 864. 
Tongue, 178. 
Tripe, 181. 
Trout. 139. 

genoise sauce, 189. 

m matelote, 132-134. 

with sauces, 135, 136. 
Troutlet, 189. 
Truffles, 40. 

garniture, 117. 
Tunny, 143, 147. 
Tnrbot, 143, 144. 

Bordelaise. 143. 

in salad, 144. 

" vol-au-vent, 419. 

" pie, 439. 

roasted, 180. 

cold, 144. 

in hors-d'oeuvre, 852. 
Turkey, 257. 

baked, 268. 

boiled, 257. 

boned, 260. 

preserved, 46. 

roasted, 258. 

stewed, 259. 

stuffed, 259, 260. 

in croquettes, 264. 
" pie, 487. 
" salad, 264. 

with cranberry-sauce, 359. 
" oyster-sauce, 259. 
" currant-jelly, 259. 

cold, 263. 



Turkey: 

caponed, 264. 
Turnips, 346. 

Bechamel, etc., 346. 

glazed, 846. 

au Jus, 346. 

wim sugar, 346. 
Turtle, 87. 

Vanilla, 41. 
Veal, 202. 
baked, 205. 
blanquette, 205. 
broiled, 208; 
broth, 68. 
croquettes, 206. 
ragout, 206. 
roasted, 203. 
in scallops, 206. 
" vol-au-vent, 420. 
with vegetables, 294. 
decorated, 204. 
breast, with peas, 207. 

in matelote, 208. 

stewed, 207. 
neck, 206. 
cold, 214. 
cutlets, 208. 

baked, 209. 

saut^es, 209. 

with sauces, 210. 
'' gamitires, 209. 

in papillotes, 210. 

with mushrooms, 209. 

en Bellevue, 210. 
fricandeau< 211. 

au jus. 211. 

financidre, 211. 

with peas, etc., 211. 
loin, or leg, stewed, 213. 

baked, 205. 

roasted, 203. 

decorated, 20^. 
shoulder, on purees, etc., 212. 

baked, 212. 

boned, 212. 

roasted, 212. 

stuffed, 212. 

en Bellevue, 213. 
brain, etc., 214. 

pie, 437. 
Vegetables, 805. 
spoons. 4l. 
Venison, 299. 
baked, 800. 
in civet, 300. 
•cuUets, 300. 

with sauces, 801. 
haunch, 801. 

saddle, with curranl^jelly, 302. 
shoulder, 802. 

stewed, 302. 

with truffles, etc., 803. 



478 



muEK. 



YeniBon: 

cold, 808. 
Yennlcelll, 77, 416. . 
Vinegar, 847. 
Vol-aa-reDt, 417. 
of llBh, 419. 

OYSters, 419. 

coicken, 419. 

yeal, 4S0. 

game, 430. 

frait8,4a0. 

BweatmeatB, 490. 



44 



44 
44 



44 

4i 



Waffles, 454. 
WalnntB, 861. 
Water, 43. 



Watercress, 847, 848. 
Weak-fish, 183. 
Welsh rarebit, 60. 
White-fish, 140. 
White pepper, 85. 
Whortleberry, 886, 440. 
Wines, 42. 
Woodchuck, 297. 
Woodcock, 279. 

in pie, 486. 

'' sahnls, 296. 
Woodpecker, 279. 

Yellow-blrdB, 279. 

Zephyrs, 453. 



r » 



•1 A 7 



THE EITD. 



• i 



I 



LIST OF WORKS 

PUBLISHED BY D. APPLETON & CO., 

ITos. '^^S Sc '4=4=5 Broad-way, N". Y. 



A Deacriptwe CataLogue^ wUh full titles and, pricesy may be Tiad 

qr<jtmtou%l/y on appUoaiion, 



Abont^s Bomon Question. 

Adams^ Boys at Home, 

Edgar Clifton. 

Addisoirs Spectator. 6 vols. 

Adler^B German and English Diction- 
ary. 

Abridged do. do. do. 

German Beader. 

^ Literature. 

Ollendorff for Learning Gennan. 

Key to the Exercises. 

Iphigezlia in Tauris. 

After. Iceoergs with a Fainter. 

AgnePs Book of Chess. 

Agoilar^s Home Inflacn^. 

Mother^s Becompense. 

Days of Brace. 2 vols. 

Home Scenes.. 

Woman's Friendship. 

"Women of Israel. 2 vols. 

Vale of Cedars. 

Ahn's French Method. 

Spanish Grammar. 

A Key to same. 

German Method. 1 vol. 

Or, separately— First Ooni'sc. 1 
voL 

Second " 1 
vol. 

Aids to Faith. A series bf Essays, by 
Various Writers. 

Aikin's British Poets. From Chaucer 
to the Present Time. 8 vols. 

Album for Postage Stamps. 

Albums of Foreign Galleries; in 7 
folios. 

Alden's Elements of Intellectual Phi- 
losophy. 

Alison's Miscellaneous Essays. 

Allen's Mechanics of Nature. 

Alsop's Charms of Fancy. 

Amelia's Poems. 

American Poets (Gems flrom the). 

American Eloquence. A Collection 
of Speeches and Addresses. 2 
vols. 

American System of Education : 

1. Hand-Book of Anglo-Saxon 
Boot-Words. 

2. Hand-Book of Anglo-Saxon 
Derivatives. 



itmerican ^tem of Education: 

8. Hand-Book of Engrafted Words. 

Anderson's Mercantile Correspond- 
ence. 

Andrews' New French Instructor. 

—— A Key to the above. 

Annals of San Francisco. 

Antisell on Coal Oils. 

Anthon's Law Student 

Appletons' New American Cyclopfledia 
of tTseftil Knowledge. 16 vols. 

Annual CydopsBdia, and i^pgister 

of Important Events for 1861, 
'62, '63, '64, '65. 

Cyclopffidia of Biogn^hy, For- 
eign and American. 

Cyclopsedia of Drawing, 

The same in parts: 
Topographical Drawing. 
Perspective and Geometrical 

Drawing. 
Shading and Shadows. 
Drawing Instruments and their 

Uses. 
Architectural Drawing and De- 
sign. 
Mechanical Drawing and Design. 

Dictionary of Mechanics and En- 
gineering. 2 large vols. • 

Eailwty Guide. 

American Illustrated Guide 

Book. 1 vol. 
Do. do., separately : 

1. Eastern and Middle States,, 
and British Provinces. 1 voL 

2. Southern and Western States, 
and the Territories., 1 vol. 

— Companion Hand-Book of Travel. 
Arabian N^hts' Entertainments. 
Arnold's (S. G.) History of the State 

of Bhode Island. 2 vols. 
Arnold's (Dr.) History of Borne. 

Modern History. 

Arnold's Classical Series : 

First Latin Book. 

First and Second Latin Book and 

Grammar. 

Latin Prose Composition. 

Cornelius Nepos. 

First Greek Book.- 

Greek Prose Composition Book, 1. 



2 



D. APPLETON & CO.'S PUBLICATIONS. 



Aniold^s Greek Prose Composition 

Book, 2. * 

Greek Keading Book. 

Arthar'8 (T. 8.) Tired of Housekeeping. 
Artjmrjs (W.) Successful Merchant 
At Anclior; or, A Story of our Civil 

War. 
Atlantic Library. 7 vols, in case. 
Attache in Madrid. 
Aunt Fanny's Story Book. 

, Mitten Series. 6 vols, in case. 

' Night Cap Series. 6 vols, in case. 

Badois^ English Grammar for French- 
men. • , 

A Key to the above. 

Baine^B A^nal of Composition and 

Bhetoric. 
Bakeweirs Great Facts 
Baldwin's Flush Times. 

Party Leaders. 

Balmanno's Fen and Pencil. 
Bank Law of the United States. 
Barrett's Beauty for AsheSb 
Bartlett's U. S. Explorations. 2 vols. 

Cheap edition. 2 vols, in 1. 

Biu-weil's Good in Every Thing. 
Bassnett's Theory of Storms. 
Baxley's "West Coast of America and 

Hawaiian Islands. 
Beach's Pelayo. An Epic. 
Boall (John Y.), Trial of. - 
Beauties of Sacred Literature. 
Beauties of Sacred Poetry. 
Beaumont and Fletcher's Works. 2 

vols. 
Belem's Spanish Phrase Book. 
Bello's Spanish Grammar (in Spanish). 
Benedict's Bun Through Europe. 
Benton on the Bred Scott Case. 

Thirty Years' View. 2 vols. ■ 

Debates of Congress. 16 vols. 

Bertha Percy. By Mai^aret Field. 

l2mo. 
Bertram?s Harvest of the Sea. Eco- 
nomic and Natural History of 

Fishes. 
Bessie and Jessie's Second Book. 
. Beza's Novum Testamentum. 
Bibles in all stales of bindings and 

varioug- pnces. 
Bible Stories, m Bible Language. 
Black's General Atlas of the World. 
Bloomfleld's Farmer's Boy. 
Blot's What to Eat, and How to Cook 

it. 
Blue and Gold Poets. 6 vols, in case. 
Boise's Greek Exercises. 
First Three Books of Xenophon's 

Anabasis. 
Bojesen's Greek and Koman Antiqui- 

ticTs. 
Book of Common Prayer. Various 

prices. 
Boone% Life and Adventures. 



the 
15 



Bourne's Catechism of the Steam En- 
gine. 

Hand-Book of the Steam Engine. 

Treatise on the Steam Engine. 

Boy's Book of Modem Travel 

Own Toy Maker. 

Bradford's Peter the Great. 
Bradley's (Mary E.) Douglass Farm. 
Bradley's (Chas.) Sermon's. 

Brady^s Christmas Dream, 

Breakfast, Dinner, and Tea. 

British Poets. From Chaucer to 
Present Time. 8 large vols. 

British Poets. Cabinet Edition, 
vols. 

Brooks' Ballads and Translations. 

Brown, Jones, and Bobinson's Tour. 

Bryan's English Grammar for Ger« 
mans. 

Bryant & Stratton's Commercial Law 

Bryant's Poems, Illustrated. 

Poems. 2 vols. - 

Thirty Poems. 

Poems. Blue and Gold. 

Letters li-om Spain,^ 

Buchanan's Administration. 

Buckle's Civilization in England. 2 
vols. 

Essays.* 

Bunyan's Divine Emblems. 

Burdett's Chances and Changes. 

Never Too Late. 

Bui^ess' Photograph Manual. l'2mo. 

Burnett (James E.) on the Ihirty- 
nine Articles. 

Burnett (Peter H.), The Path which 
led a Protestant Lawyer to the 
Catholic Church. 

Bumouf s Gramatica Latina. 

Bums' (Jabez) Cyclopeedia of Sennons. 

Bums' (Robert) Poems. 

Burton's Cyclopaedia of Wit and Hu- 
mor. 2 vols. ■ 

Butler's Martin Van Buren. 

Butler's (F.) Spianish Teacher. 

Butler's (S.) Hudibras. 

Butler's (T. B.) Guide to the Weather. 

Butler's (Wm. Allen) Two Millions. 

Byron Gallery. The Gallery of By- 
ron Beauties. 

— - Poetical Works. 

< L^e and Letters. 

Works. Illustrated. 

Coeleb's Laws and Practice of Whist 
Ctpsar's C5mmentaries. 
Caird's Prairie Farming. 
Calhoun's Works and Speeches. 6 vols. 
Campbell's (TBos.) Gertmde of Wy- 

. oming. 
—— Poems. 

Campbell (Judge) on Shakespeare. 
Canot, Life of Captain. 
Carlyle's (Thomas) Essays. 
Carrcno's Manual of Politenesa. 



1 



\ 



\ 



1 



