I CO 

:Cr) 
!o 
•o 






CO 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2007 with funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/artofprolonginglOOhufeuoft 






fit 

( HUFELAND'S ) 



ART 



PROLONGING LIFE. 



EDITED BY 



ERASMUS WILSON, F.R. S. 

AUTHOR OF 
■A SYSTEM OF HUMAN ANATOMY," "DISEASES OF THE SKIN," ETC. 



FROM THE LAST LONDON EDITION. 



x> ' 



PHILADELPHIA: 

LINDSAY & BLAKISTON, 

1867. 



PHILADELPHIA: 
CAXTON PRESS OF SHERMAN & CO 



N T E N T S. 



PAKT THE FIKST. 

PAGB 

Chapter I. — State of this Science among the Egyptians and the 
Greeks ; Gymnastic ; Gerocomic ; Hermippus. State of it in the 
middle ages ; Theophrastus Paracelsus. Astrological method. 
Talismans. Thurneiser. Cornaro, and his severe regimen. 
Method by transfusion. Lord Bacon. St. Germain. Mesmer, 13-31 

Chapter II. — Inquiry into the nature of the vital power, and the 
duration of life in general. Properties and laws of the vital 
power. Definition of life. Vital consumption inseparable con- 
sequence of vital operation. Term of life. Causes of the du- 
ration of life. Retardation of vital consumption. Possibility of 
prolonging life. Intensive and extensive life. Sleep, . 32-52 

Chapter III. — Duration of the life of plants ; diversity of it. An- 
nual, biennial, perennial. Experiments respecting circumstances 
by which this is determined ,• result of them. Application of the 
fundamental principles of the duration of life. Great influence 
of attention and culture on the duration of the life of plants, 53-63 

Chapter IV. — Duration of life in the animal world. Observations 
on plant-animals. Worms. Insects. Metamorphosis an im- 
portant means of prolonging life. Amphibia. Fish. Birds. 
Animals which suckle. Result. Influence of maturity and 
growth on the duration of life. Perfection or imperfection of 
organization of life. Rapid or slow vital consumption. Resto- 
ration, 64-77 

Chapter V. — Duration of the life of man. Apparently incredible 
age of the patriarchs explained. Age of the world has no in- 
fluence on the duration of human life. Instances of great age 
among the Jews, Greeks, and Romans. Tables of the census 
under Vespasian. Instances of great age among kings, emperors, 
and popes. Frederick II. Among hermits and monks. Philoso- 
phers and men of letters. Poets and artists. Instances of the 



IV CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

greatest age to be found only among country people, hunters, 
gardeners, soldiers, and sailors. Few to be found among physi- 
cians. Shortest life. Difference of age according to climate, 77-97 

Chapter VI. — Result of the above observations. Age of the world 
has no influence on that of its inhabitants. Influence of climate 
and of atmosphere. Islands and peninsulas. Countries in Europe 
most favorable to longevity. Advantages of temperance. The 
two most dreadful extremes of mortality in modern times. Mod- 
eration in all things has great efi'ect in prolonging life. State of 
marriage. Female sex. Industry. Frugality. Civilization. 
Rural life. Renovation possible. Extent of human life deter- 
mined. Absolute and relative duration of it. Tables respecting 
the latter 98-111 

Chapter VII. — More particular examination of human life. Es- 
sential definition of it. Principal operations on which it depends. 
Accession from without. Assimilation and animalization. Nu- 
trition and preparation of the organized matter. Power and 
organs consumed by life itself. Separation and destruction of 
exhausted parts. Organs necessary for life. History of life. 
Causes of the long duration of the life of man. Influence of 
reason and the higher powers of thought. Answer to the ques- 
tion, " Why, among men, who are more fitted for long life than 
animals, mortality, however, should be greater?" . 111-129 

Chapter VIII. — Signs of long life in individuals. Sound stomach 
and organs of digestion. Good teeth. Well-organized chest. 
Heart not too irritable. Strong natural power of restoration and 
healing. Sufficient quantity and diffusion of the vital power. 
Good temperament. Faultless and well-proportioned make of 
body. No particular weakness of any part. Portrait of a man 
destined to long life, ....... 129-136 

Chapter IX. — Examination of various new methods for prolonging 
life. By vital elixirs. Gold tinctures, and wonder-working es- 
sences. By hardening the organs. By rest, and suspending for 
a time vital activity. By guarding against consumption, and 
the external causes of disease. By fast living. Account of the 
only methods possible by which life can be prolonged. Proper 
union of the four principal indications : Increasing of the vital 
power, Strengthening the organs. Moderating vital consumption, 
Favoring restoration. Modification of these methods, according 
to diff'erence of constitution, temperament, age, and climate, 137-158 



CONTENTS. 

PAET THE SECOND. 

Introduction, . . . . . 



MEANS WHICH SHORTEN LIFE, . 

Chapter I. — Delicate nursing and treatment in infancy, 

Chapter II. — Physical excess in youth, .... 

Chapter III. — Overstrained exertion of the mental faculties, 

Chapter IV. — Diseases. Injudicious manner of treating them 
Sudden kinds of death. Propensity to self-murder, 

Chapter V. — Impure air. Men living together in large cities, 

Chapter VI. — Intemperance in eating and drinking. Refined cook 
ery. Spirituous liquors, ...... 



Chapter VII. — Passions and dispositions of mind which shorten life. 

Peevishness. Too much occupation and business, . . . 179 

Chapter VIII.— The fear of death 

Chapter IX. — Idleness. Inactivity. Languor, . 



Chapter X. — Over-strained power of the imagination. Imaginary 
diseases. Sensibility, ....... 



Chapter XI. — Poisons, physical as well as infectious, 
Chapter XII. — Old age. Premature ingrafting of it on youth, 



PAGE 

159 

160 
162 
163 
164 

169 
174 

175 



182 
186 

188 
191 
201 



PAET THE THIRD. 

MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE, . 

Chapter I. — Good physical descent, ..... 

Chapter II. — Prudent physical education, .... 

Chapter III. — Active and laborious youth, .... 

Chapter IV. — Abstinence from physical love in youth, and a too 
early assumption of the married state 

1* 



204 
204 
210 
224 

225 



VI CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

Chapter V. — Happy married state, . ..... 228 

Chapter VI. — Sleep, .......•■ 232 

Chapter VII. — Bodily exercise, 238 

Chapter VIII. — The enjoyment of free air. Moderate tempera- 
ture of warmth, .......•• 239 

Chapter IX. — Rural and country life, 241 

Chapter X.— Travelling, 246 

Chapter XI. — Cleanliness and care of the skin, .... 250 

Chapter XII. — Proper food. Moderation in eating and drinking. 

Preservation of the teeth, ....... 267 

Chapter XIII. — Mental tranquillity. Contentment. Dispositions 

of mind and employments which tend to prolong life, . . 264 

Chapter XIV. — Reality of character, ...... 268 

Chapter XV. — Agreeable stimulants of the senses and of sensation 

moderately used, ......... 269 

Chapter XVI. — Preventing diseases. Judicious treatment of them. 

Proper use of medicine and physicians, ..... 270 

Chapter XVII. — Relief in cases where one is exposed to the danger 

of sudden death, ......... 286 

Chapter XVIII. — Old age. Proper treatment of it, . ., . 292 

Chapter XIX. — Cultivation of the mental and bodily powers, . 296 



I 



EDITOE'S PEEFACE. 



The *' Art of Prolonging Life," by Christopher Wil- 
liam Hufeland, a philosophic physician and professor of 
medicine in the University of Jena, is a work enjoying 
a deserved popularity in Grermany, where it has gone 
through several editions. Though translated into Eng- 
lish, in 1797, it is but little known in this country, less 
indeed, as it appeared to the Editor, than its merits de- 
serve ; and it is under the hope of being able to fill a 
vacant niche in popular literature, and restoring to his 
proper sphere of usefulness an able and accomplished 
instructor, that the Editor has now undertaken the 
present edition of his book. In its English costume, 
and bearing a dedication to George Christopher Lich- 
tenberg, Counsellor of State to his Britannic Majesty, 
and one of the Professors in the University of Gottin- 
gen, the work was published in two octavo volumes, 
with respectable and roomy type, short lines, shorter 
pages, and broad margins, an effectual prohibition to 
its wide diffusion. The translation bears the impress 
of a master's hand ; it is elegant and exact, and in the 
Editor's judgment is the production of the learned 
author's own pen. Under this belief, the Editor has 
selected the translation of 1794, with its pure and classic 
language, for the present volume, in preference to a new 
translation from a later German edition. 

The Eeader will probably be struck, as was the Edi- 
tor, with the little real progress which has been made 



VllI EDITOR S PREFACE. 

in the science of living during the more than half a 
century since the original work was first written; and 
the feeling of a necessity for bringing the matter up to 
the present line of march will be dissipated by its pe- 
rusal. Indeed it seemed to the Editor more fitting as 
a ground of wholesome reflection, that we should have 
placed before our eyes the philosophy of half a century 
back, that we might thereby learn how much still re- 
mained to be done, before our knowledge of the sub- 
ject could be regarded as complete. 

With an elegant translation, then, done to his hand, 
all that remained to the Editor was a labor of taste; to 
adapt the work to the modes of thinking aud feeling 
of the present day, certain truths, too true to be allowed 
to stand forth in all their naked proportions, required 
a veil to be thrown around them; words that betrayed 
the foreign source of the translation, and bore a mean- 
ing different to that which would have been deduced 
from their construction, required to be exchanged for 
ternis of more obvious nationality; and, in a few in- 
stances, certain elaborate disquisitions bordering on ab- 
solute prose, needed to be expunged altogether. The 
temple of knowledge at the present day, is called on to 
put forth all its allurements to invite mankind to enter 
its portals, while V\^ith equal care its harsher features 
must be thrown into the shade. The art of the arrange- 
ment consists in softening the rude by its combination 
with the refined; in accustoming the senses to the sub- 
dued tints before the more sombre shadows are de- 
veloped. In this, and a few necessary notes, the whole 
of the Editor's labor is embraced. 

Henrietta Street, Cavendish Square. 



PREFACE. 



The life of man, physically considered, is a peculiar chemico- 
animal operation ; a phenomenon effected by a concurrence of the 
united powers of Nature with matter in a continual state of change . 
This, like every other physical operation, must have its defined 
laws, boundaries, and duration, so far as they depend on the sum 
of the given powers and matter, their application, and many other 
external, as well as internal circumstances ; but, like every other 
physical operation, it can be promoted or impeded, accelerated or 
retarded. By laying down just principles respecting its essence 
and wants, and by attending to observations made from experience, 
the circumstances under which this process may be hastened and 
shortened, or retarded and prolonged, can be discovered. Upon 
this may be founded dietetic rules and a medical mode of treat:- 
ment for preserving life ; and hence arises a particular science, the 
MACROBIOTIC, or the art of prolonging it, which forms the subject 
of the present work. 

This art, however, must not be confounded with the common 
art of medicine or medical regimen; its object, means, and boun- 
daries, are different. The object of the medical art is health; .that 
of the macrobiotic, long life. The means employed in the medical 
art are regulated according to the present state of the body and its 
variations ; those of the macrobiotic, by general principles. In 
the first it is sufficient if one is able to restore that health which 
has been lost ; but no person thinks of inquiring whether, by the 
means used for that purpose, life, upon the whole, will be length- 
ened or shortened ; and the latter is often the case in many methods 
employed in medicine. The medical art must consider every dis^- 
ease as an evil, which cannot be too soon expelled ; the macrobi- 
otic, on the other hand, shows that many diseases may be the 
means of prolonging life. The medical art endeavors, by cor- 
roborative and other remedies, to elevate mankind to the highest 



X PREFACE. 

degree of strength and physical perfection ; while the raacrobiotic 
proves that here even there is a maximum, and that strengthen- 
ing, carried too far, may tend to accelerate life, and consequently, 
to shorten its duration. The practical part of medicine, therefore, 
in regard to the macrobiotic art, is to be considered only as an 
auxiliar}' science wliich teaches us hov\^ to know diseases, the en- 
emies of life, and how to prevent and expel them ; but which, 
however, must itself be subordinate to the higher laws of the 
latter. 

Long life has at all times been the chief wish, the principal ob- 
ject of mankind ; but how confused and contradictory are all the 
plans ever proposed for obtaining it ! The stern theologist derides 
such attempts; and asks, if the period of existence is not deter- 
mined to every being — and who is able to add a hair-breadth to 
his stature, or a minute to the duration of his existence? The 
practical physician exclaims, why do you search for the particular 
means of prolonging life ? Employ my art ; take care of your 
health, guard against diseases, and cure those which have appeared. 
This is the only way to promote longevity. The adept shows his 
vital elixir, and boldly asserts that those who will persevere to 
take that incorporated spirit of life may hope to become old. The 
philosopher endeavors to resolve the problem, by teaching men 
to despise death, and to double life by enjoyment. The innumer- 
able legion of quacks and empirics, on the other hand, who have 
gained the confidence of the multitude, inspire them with a belief 
that there are no surer means of becoming old, than to let blood 
at proper times, and to use cupping, purgatives, &c. 

It appeared to me, therefore, useful and necessary to rectify the 
ideas of the public on a matter of so much importance ; and to 
bring this science back to solid and simple principles, by which it 
might acquire that connection and systematic order of which it 
hath hitherto been destitute. 

For eight years this subject has been the favorite employment 
of my leisure hours ; and it will give me great happiness if it bo 
to others only half as serviceable as it has been to me. The present 
melancholy age, so destructive to mankind, induced me to engage 
in this undertaking ; and the idea of its being useful, while it af- 
forded me the highest consolation, encouraged me to pursue my 
researches. 

My chief aim was to establish the Art of Prolonging Life on 
systematic grounds, and to make known the means for accomplish- 



r 



PREFACE. XI 

ing the object ; but, to convey a proper idea of the whole, it was 
necessary to comprehend some concomitant circumstances which 
gradually presented themselves to my notice. This, in the first 
place, appeared to be the best way of giving a higher interest and 
more general value to many dietetic rules ; because I have always 
found that much less impression is made when one says, this or 
that substance^ this or that mode of living, is healthful or unhealth- 
ful (since this is relative, and depends on the strength or weakness 
of the constitution as well as on other points, and has a refer- 
ence to the immediate consequences, which are often imperceptible, 
arid therefore make those who are not physicians disbelieve the 
whole), than when the proposition is thus expressed, — these things, 
these modes of living , prolong or shorten life; for this depends less 
on circumstances, and cannot be judged of from the immediate 
consequences. And, secondly, this work insensibly became a re- 
pository to which I committed many of my favorite ideas ; where 
I indulged in many digressions suited to a citizen of the world, 
and was happy to have it in my power to connect these ideas by a 
thread so beautiful and so extensive in joining everything as the 
thread of life. 

According to the point of view under which I necessarily con- 
sidered my subject, it was natural that I should treat it, not only 
medically, but also morally ; for, how is it possible to write on hu- 
man life, without taking into consideration its connection with the 
moral world, to which it so peculiarly belongs? On the contrary, 
I have found more than once, in the course of my labor, that the 
phj^sical man cannot be separated from his higher moral object; 
and I may, perhaps, reckon it a small merit in the present perform- 
ance, that it will not only establish the truth and heighten the value 
of the moral laws in the eyes of many, by showing that they are 
indispensably necessary for the physical support and prolongation 
of life, but that it demonstrates, that the physical nature of man 
has been suited to his higher moral destination ; that this makes 
an essential difference between the nature of man and the nature 
of animals ; that without moral cultivation man is in continual 
contradiction with his own nature ; and that, by culture alone, he 
becomes even physically perfect. May I be so fortunate, by these 
means, as to accomplish two objects : not only to render the life 
of man more healthful and longer ; but also, by exciting his ex- 
ertions for that purpose, to make him better and more virtuous ! 
I can at any rate assert, that man will in vain seek for the one 



XU PREFACE. 

without the other, and that physical and moral health are as nearly- 
related as the body and the soul. They flow from the same sources ; 
become blended together ; and when united, the result is, human 

NATURE ENNOBLED AND RAISED TO PERFECTION. 

I must here observe, that as this work is not designed merely 
for physicians, but for the public in general, I was obliged in some 
points to be more diffuse, and in others shorter, than if I had 
written for the former alone. I had, in particular, a regard to 
young people ; because I am convinced that the grounds of a long 
or a short life can bo most efl"ectually laid at an early period ; and 
that, through unpardonable negligence in the education of youth, 
information on this subject, so important to their physical happi- 
ness, is entirely forgotten. I have, therefore, placed in the clearest 
light those points most necessary to be known at an early age ; and, 
in general, have treated my subject so that the book may be put 
into the hands of young persons without any danger: and it will 
afford me inexpressible joy if it be not only recommended to them, 
but employed also in schools, to convey instruction respecting their 
physical well-being — which must indeed be given in such semi- 
naries, as I unfortunately know, by long experience, that in col- 
leges it will be for the most part too late. 

My readers, I hope, will forgive me for not supporting with 
quotations every instance I have adduced, and every fact related. 
My motive for omitting them was an apprehension of swelling 
the work too much, and of rendering it too expensive. I must, 
however, remark, that the instances given of the age of man are 
taken chiefly from Bacon's Historia Yitm et Mortis. 

To conclude, I will readily allow, that many parts of this work 
might have been written in a better and fuller manner ; but I 
console myself with the agreeable persuasion, which no one can 
deprive me of, that what I have said, may be useful, and that its 
utility will recommend it, and procure it support. 



• I 



ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 



PART THE FIRST. 
CHAPTER L 

State op this Science among the Egyptians and the Greeks ; Gtm- 
NASTic ; Gebocomic ; Hebmippus. State op it in the middle ages ; 
Theophrastos Paracelsus. Astrological method. Talismans. 
Thurneiser. Cornaro, and his severe regimen. Method by 

TRANSFUSION. LORD BACON. St. GeRMAIN. MeSMER. 

That incomprehensible power, that immediate in- 
fluence of the Deity which we call the vital principle, 
pervades all nature. We everywhere behold phenom- 
ena and effects which evidently announce its presence, 
though under an infinite variety of modifications and 
forms; and the existence of life is proclaimed by the 
whole universe around us. Life is that by which plants 
vegetate, by which animals feel and are actuated ; but 
in the highest degree of perfection, sensation and form, 
it appears, in man, the supreme link of the visible cre- 
ation. If we survey the whole chain of being, we shall 
nowhere find so complete a combination of almost all 
the vivifying powers of nature ; nowhere so much vital 
energy, united with so long duration, as here. It needs 
excite no surprise, therefore, that the most perfect pos- 
sessor of this benefit should value it so highly; and 



14 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

that the bare idea of living and existing should be at- 
tended with so much pleasure. All bodies become the 
more interesting to us, the more we can ascribe to them 
a kind of life and vital sensation. Nothing can engage 
our attention so much ; nothing induce us to make so 
great sacrifices, and to call forth the most extraordi- 
nary display and exertion of our most secret powers, 
as the desire of preserving life, and of saving it in the 
moment of danger. To those, even, who are deprived 
of its comforts and enjoyments; to those who suffer 
under the pain of incurable disease, or who bewail the 
loss of freedom in the gloom of a dungeon, the idea of 
living and existing j)resents some charms ; and it cer- 
tainly requires a derangement of the finest organs of 
sensation, a circumstance possible only in man ; a total 
darkening and deadening of the mental faculties, to 
render life to us either disgusting or indifferent. In so 
wise and intimate a manner is the love of life, that de- 
sire so w^orthy of a thinking being, that grand pillar 
of individual and public felicity, interwoven with our 
frame. It w^as very natural for men, therefore, to con- 
ceive the idea whether it might not be j^ossible to pro- 
long our existence, and to give more extent to the too 
fleeting enjoyment of so valuable a blessing. This 
question, indeed, has, at all times, engaged the atten- 
tion of mankind, and in different ways. It has been a 
favorite object of the deepest thinking minds; it has 
afforded a fine field for visionaries ; and has been the 
principal allurement employed by quacks and impos- 
tors : for we shall find that intercourse with spirits, 
the secret of making gold, or the art of prolonging 
life, were the pretences by which they deluded the 
multitude, and imposed on the credulity of the public. 
It is interesting, and may contribute something to- 
wards the history of the human mind, to see by what 



MEANS ADOPTED BY THE ANCIENTS. 15 

various, and often contrary, means people hoped to ob- 
tain that benefit; and, as in latter times, a Cagliostro 
and a Mesmer have supplied considerable materials for 
this subject, I hope I shall be forgiven if I here take a 
short view, before I proceed to my main purpose, of 
the principal methods that have been employed to 
lengthen the duration of life. 

An idea of this kind prevailed, even in the earliest 
ages, among the Egj'ptians, the Greeks, and the Eo- 
mans. In Egypt, a country which gave birth to so 
many romantic notions, means were devised for the 
attainment of this object; and it is not improbable that 
such researches may have been occasioned by the un- 
healthfulness of the climate, owing to its great heat, 
and the inundations of the Nile. It was believed there, 
that life could be prolonged by the continued use of 
emetics and sudorifics. It was, therefore, a general 
custom to take, at least, two emetics every month ; and 
instead of saying, How do you find yourself? one asked 
another. How do you perspire ? This passion among 
the Greeks, under the influence of a pure and serene 
atmosphere, assumed a different direction. These peo- 
ple were persuaded that a rational enjoyment of na- 
ture, and the continual exercise of their powers, were 
the surest means of strengthening the vital principle, 
and of prolonging life. Hippocrates, and all the phy- 
sicians and philosophers of that period, knew no other 
method of accomplishing this end than by moderation; 
the use of free and pure air; bathing; and above all, 
by daily friction of the body and exercise. Particular 
directions and rules were laid down for giving violent 
and gentle motion to the body in a variety of ways : 
a particular art, called the Gymnastic^ hence arose; and 
the greatest philosophers and men of learning never 
forgot that the body and the soul ought to be exercised 



16 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

in the same proportion. This art, to ns almost un- 
known, of suiting exercise to the different constitu- 
tions, situations, and wants of man; of employing it, 
above all, as the means of keeping his internal nature 
in proper activity, and therebj^ not only rendering the 
causes of disease ineffectual, but also curing diseases 
which have already appeared, they, indeed, brought 
to an extraordinary degree of perfection. One Herod- 
icus, we are told, carried these ideas so far that he com- 
pelled his patients to walk ; to suffer their bodies to be 
rubbed ; and, the more the disease weakened them, to 
endeavor to overcome that weakness by strengthening 
the muscular powers; and he had the good fortune to 
lengthen several years, by this method, the lives of so 
many enfeebled patients, that Plato reproached him 
with having acted very unjustly towards these unfor- 
tunate people, in prolonging, by artificial means, that 
existence of which they would always have less and 
less enjoyment. The clearest ideas and most agreeable 
to nature on preserving and lengthening life may be 
found in Plutarch, who, by the happiest old age, con- 
firmed the truth of his prescriptions. His information 
on this subject, he concludes with the following rules, 
which may suit also the present age : " Keep your head 
cool, and your feet warm; instead of employing medi- 
cine for every indisposition, rather fast a day; and 
while you attend to the body, never neglect the mind." 
A singular method of prolonging life, ascribed also 
to the earliest ages, was the Gerocomic ; or the custom 
of inspiring new strength and vigor into a body en- 
feebled under a load of years, by exj)Osing it to the 
effluvia of fresh and blooming youth. A well-known 
instance of this practice may be found in the history of 
King David ; and we learn from several passages in the 
w^ritings of the ancient physicians, that it was formerly 



METHOD OP HERMIPPUS. 17 

much used, and considered of great efficacy in relieving 
the infirmities of age. Even in modern times this pre- 
scription has been followed with advantage. The great 
Boerhaave caused an old burgomaster of Amsterdam 
to sleep between two young persons ; and he assures us 
that the old man acquired by this means a visible in- 
crease of vigor and activity. When one, indeed, re- 
flects what change may be produced on diseased limbs 
by the vital evaporation of animals newly killed, and 
what may j?e the consequence of applying living ani- 
mals to parts affected with pain, this method will ap- 
pear not to be altogether despicable. 

It is highly probable that the great value which the 
Greeks and the Eomans set upon inspiring pure sound 
breath may have been founded on these ideas; and the 
following ancient inscription, discovered at Eome in 
the last century, seems to allude to this subject: 

uEsculapio et Sanitati. 

L. Clodius Hermippus, 
Qui vixit annos cxv. dies v. 

Puellarum anhelitu. 
Quod etiam post mortem ejus 
Non parum mirantur physici, ^ 

Jam posteri, sic vitam ducite. 

To ^sculapius and Health 

Dedicated 
By L. Clodius Hermippus, 
Who lived cxv years v days 
By the breath of young maids. 

Whether this inscription be authentic or not, it gave 
occasion, in the beginning of the present century, to a 
work in which one Dr. Cohausen endeavors, with much 
learning, to prove that Hermippus was the master of a 
training school, or teacher of female children, at Eome, 

2* 



18 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

who, by living continually amidst a circle of young 
maids, had been enabled to prolong his life to so great 
an age. He advises people, therefore, with much be- 
nevolence, to expose themselves, every evening and 
morning, to breath of young innocent maidens; and 
asserts, that they will thereby contribute, in an incred- 
ible degree, to the strengthening and preserving the 
vital power; as, according to the saying of the adepts, 
the first matter is contained purest in the breath of in- 
nocence. 

But that long period of darkness during the middle 
ages, when all clear and natural conceptions were ban- 
ished by fanaticism and superstition; when the super- 
lative indolence of the cloister gave rise to some chemi- 
cal and physical discoveries, which served rather to 
bewilder than enlighten the understanding, and tended 
more to promote credulity than enlarge knowledge, 
was the most fertile in romantic notions on this subject. 
It was during this night of ignorance that the most 
monstrous chimeras of the human mind were produced; 
and that those absurd ideas of witchcraft, sympathy, 
the philosopher's stone, occult qualities, chiromancy, 
cabala, universal remedies, were established, or at least 
propagated in the world; and which unfortunately yet 
prevail, and, though in a changed and modernized form, 
are still employed to mislead mankind. Amidst that 
mental darkness an opinion arose, that the preserva- 
tion and prolongation of life, which, as the gift of 
nature, had been hitherto sought for by the most natu- 
ral means, could be obtained by cheuiical transmuta- 
tions, by the help o^ i\iQ first matter which men thought 
they had caught in retorts, by guarding against the 
influence of malignant constellations, and by other 
ridiculous conceits of the like kind. I hope I shall, 
therefore, be here permitted to mention a few of the 



THE CHEMICAL METHOD. 19 

plans then proposed to mankind, which, notwithstand- 
ing their absurdit}^, were nevertheless credited. 

One of the most impudent quacks and greatest boasters 
among the prolongers of life was Theophrastus Para- 
celsus, or, as he is better characterized by his whole 
name, Philippus Aureolus Theophrastus Paracelsus, 
Eombastus ab Hohenheim. He had travelled over half 
the world; had collected receipts and wonder-working 
medicines from all quarters and corners; and, in particu- 
lar, which was very uncommon, had studied in mines the 
nature and management of metals. He began his career 
by depreciating everything before taught; by treating all 
the great public seminaries with the utmost contemi)t; 
by giving himself out as the first physician and philoso- 
pher in the world ; and by solemnly asserting that there 
was no disease which he could not cure, no life which 
he could not prolong. As a proof of his insolence, and 
of the high tone in which the quacks of the fifteenth 
century addressed the public, I shall here quote the 
beginning of his principal work : " Ye must give way 
to me, and not I to you; ye must give way to me, 
Avicenna, Khases, Galen, Mesue; ye must give way to 
me, ye of Paris, ye of Montpellier, ye of Swabia, ye of 
Misnia, ye of Cologne, ye of Yienna, and whatever 
places lie on the Danube and the Phine; ye islands in 
the sea; thou Italian, thou Dalmatian, thou Athenian, 
thou Greek, thou Arabian, thou Israelite; you must 
give way to me, and not I to you. The monarchy is 
mine !'^ One may readily perceive that this author was 
not in the wrong when he said, " I am not fine-spun by 
nature ;" but he had the art of clothing his absurdities in 
so dark and mysterious language, that people imagined 
they contained the deepest secrets which they here and 
there sought to discover; and that, at any rate, it was 
impossible to contradict him. By these means, and by 



20 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

the new and accidental effects of some chemical prepa- 
rations which he first introduced into medicine, he 
attracted great notice; and his fame was so far ex- 
tended, that pupils and patients flocked to him from 
every part of Europe; and that even an Erasmus did 
not disdain to consult him. He died, however, in the 
fiftieth year of his age, though he possessed the stone of 
immortality; and when his vegetable sulphur is closely 
examined, it is found to be nothing else than a hot sub- 
stance much like the liquor of Hoffmann. 

But it was not enough that recourse should be had to 
chemistry and the world of spirits in order to prolong 
our days ; the stars also must be employed for that pur- 
pose. It was at the above period commonly believed, 
that the influence of the stars, which people could not 
allow themselves to suppose idle, ruled over the lives 
and fortunes of men ; that every planet or constellation 
could give to the whole frame of the being born under 
it, a certain disposition to good or evil: and that, con- 
sequently, it was necessary only for an astrologer to 
know the hour and minute of a person's birth to dis- 
cover his temperament, capacity, and fate ; to foretell 
the diseases to which he would be subject, the death he 
would die, and even the last day of his existence. This 
opinion prevailed not only among the ignorant multi- 
tude, but among the greatest, the wisest, and the most 
judicious people of the age; and it is astonishing how 
long and how firmlj^ they relied on these ideas, though 
instances could not be wanting of such predictions prov- 
ing altogether false. Bishops, dignified clergymen, cele- 
brated philosophers, and physicians, gave themselves up 
to the casting of nativities ; and lectures were read in col- 
leges on that subject, as well as upon cabala and the art 
of divination by punctures and circles. As a proof of 
what I have advanced, let me here be permitted to say 



THE ASTROLOGICAL METHOD. 2l 

a few words respecting the celebrated Thurneiser, the 
most brilliant phenomenon of this kind; a man truly 
singular. He resided in the last century at the elec- 
toral court of Berlin, and was physician in ordinary, 
chemist, nativity-caster, almanac-maker, printer, and 
bookseller, all in one person. His reputation in astrol- 
ogy was so great, that scarcely was there a child born 
in any respectable family in Germany, Poland, Hun- 
gary, Denmark, and even England, whose parents did 
not immediately despatch a messenger to him with an 
exact account of the moment of its birth. Eight, ten, 
and twelve such nativities came to him often at one 
time, and he was at last so oppressed with them, that 
he was obliged to engage an assistant in his business. 
Several volumes of such questions are still preserved in 
the library at Berlin, among which there appear some 
letters from Queen Elizabeth. Besides, he composed 
annually an astrological calendar, in which was de- 
scribed not only the nature of the year in general, but 
also the principal events of it; and the days on w^hich 
they would take place were distinguished by abbrevia- 
tions or signs. He, indeed, for the most part, did not 
give the explanation of them till the year following ; 
but we find instances of his having been prevailed upon 
by money and fair words to explain them before. It 
is astonishing what the art of indefinite prophetic dic- 
tion and the favor of accident can effect. This calen- 
dar supported itself above twenty years, had a rapid 
and extensive sale ; and, with other quackeries, pro- 
cured to the author an estate of 100,000 florins. 

But in an art which prescribed such certain and un- 
passable boundaries to the life, of man, how was it pos- 
sible to find the means of prolonging it ? This was 
done in the following simple manner : it was supposed 
that, as every man lay under the influence of a certain 



22 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

star, every other body, plants, animals, and even whole 
districts and single houses had each its own star by, 
which it was ruled; and that, besides, there was an 
Intimate connection and sympathy between the planets 
and the metals. As soon as it was known from what 
constellation or planet a man's misfortune or sickness 
proceeded, nothing more was necessary than that he 
should use such food, drink, and place of residence, as 
were under the government of an opposite planet. This 
produced a new regimen, but totally different from that 
of the Greeks already mentioned. If a day occurred 
which, on account of its unfavorable constellation, gave 
reason to apprehend severe sickness or other evils, 
people retired to a spot which lay under the disposition 
of a friendly star, or they took such nourishment and 
medicine as under the protection of a beneficent star 
would annihilate the influence of the malignant one.* 
On the same grounds people hoped for a prolongation 
of life by talismans and amulets. Because the metals 
were in intimate connection with the planets, to wear a 
talisman of the proper metal, which had been melted, 
cast, and stamped, under certain constellations, was 
sufficient to appropriate to oneself the whole power 
and protection of the planets with which it was con- 

* About that period, Marsilius Ficinus, in his Treatise on the 
Prolongation of Life, advised all prudent people to consult an 
astrologer every seven years, in order that they should be apprised 
of the dangers which might threaten them during the following 
seven ; and in particular to respect and to use properly the means 
of the three holy kings — Gold, Frankincense, and Myrrh, M. 
Pansa, in the year 1470, dedicated to the Council at Leipsic, a 
book De Propaganda Vita; Aureus libellus: in which he strongly 
advised these gentlemen, above all things to make known their 
favorable and unfavorable aspects, and to be on their guard every 
seven years, because Saturn, a hostile, malignant planet, ruled at 
those periods. 



THE DIETETIC METHOD. 23 

nected. People had not only talismans which averted 
the diseases of one planet, but talismans for all astral 
diseases; and some even which by a particular mixture 
of different metals, and the peculiar art employed in 
melting them, acquired the wonderful power of destroy- 
ing the whole influence of an unlucky nativity; of ad- 
vancing to offices of dignity, and of rendering the most 
essential seWice in regard to commerce or marriage. 
Was Mars imprinted on a talisman in the sign Scorpio, 
and had it been cast under that constellation, it ren- 
dered the person who wore it invincible and invulner- 
able : and the German soldiers were so prepossessed with 
this idea, that, as a French writer informs us, after a 
defeat which they had sustained in France, amulets 
were found hanging from the necks of all the killed and 
prisoners. The image of the planet-deity must not, 
however, for the above purpose, have an antique, but a 
mystic and romantic figure and dress. For jovial dis- 
eases one had a talisman with the figure of Jupiter, 
which bore a perfect resemblance to an old professor of 
Wittenberg or Basle. He was represented like a man 
with a beard, in a wide gown lined with fur, holding in 
the one hand an open book, and demonstrating with 
the right. I should not have dwelt so long on the pres- 
ent subject, had not this conceit of the last century 
been again revived a few years ago by Cagliostro, and 
found partisans here and there towards the end of the 
eighteenth. 

The more ridiculous and abstruse these conceptions 
were, the more respectable must be the memory of a 
man who could fortunately rise superior to them, and 
discover the art of prolonging life by pursuing the path 
of temperance and of nature. Cornaro, who, by the 
simplest and strictest regimen, and an unexampled 
perseverance in his plan, attained happily to a great age, 



24 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

which rewarded him richly for his self-denial, and gave 
an instructive lesson to posterity, was an Italian. One 
cannot read the history of the life and abstinence of 
this veteran of eighty-three, and hear how he praises 
that serenity and contentment for which he was in- 
debted to his mode of living, without participating in 
his happiness and his cheerful sensations. Till the for- 
tieth year of his age he had led a life of dissipation ; 
had been always subject to colics, pains in his limbs, 
and a fever; and was so far reduced by the last that 
his physicians assured him he could not live above two 
months; that all medicine would be useless; and that 
the only thing which could be recommended for him 
was a spare diet. Having followed this advice, he 
found, after some days, that he was much better; and 
at the end of a few years his health was not only per- 
fectly re-established, but he became sounder than ever 
he had been before. He resolved, therefore, to restrain 
himself more and more, and to use nothing except 
what was absolutely necessary for subsistence. For 
sixty whole years he took no more than twelve ounces of 
food, everything included, and thirteen ounces of drink 
daily. He avoided also violent heat and cold, as well as 
passion; and by this uniform regimen he kept not only 
his body but also his mind in such a state of equality 
that nothing was able to derange them. When at a 
great age, he lost an important lawsuit; and though 
this disappointment hurried two of his brothers to the 
grave, he remained perfectly sound and resigned. He 
was once thrown from a carriage and trod under the 
feet of the horses, so that an arm and foot were dislo- 
cated; but he caused them to be reduced, and without 
the use of any medicine, was soon restored to his former 
condition. But what is most worthy of remark, and 
what proves how dangerous the smallest deviation 



THE DIETETIC METHOD. ' 25 

from long custom may be, is what follows. "When he 
was eighty years of age, his friends prevailed upon 
him, as his body now required more nourishment, to 
make a little addition to his food. Though well aware 
that with the general decay of strength the powers of 
digestion decrease also, and that in old age one ought 
rather to lessen than increase the quantity of nourish- 
ment, he gave way to their request, and raised his food 
to fourteen and his drink to sixteen ounces. " Scarcely," 
says he, "had I continued this mode of living ten days, 
when I began, instead of being cheerful and lively as 
before, to become uneasy and dejected, a burden to my- 
self and to others. On the twelfth day I was seized 
with a pain in my side, which lasted twenty-four hours; 
and this was followed by a fever, which continued with 
so much violence for thirty-five days, that my life was 
despaired of. But, by the blessing of God, and my 
former regimen, I recovered -, and now, in my eighty- 
third year, I enjoy a happy state both of body and 
mind. I can mount my horse without assistance; I 
climb steep hills; and I have lately written a play 
abounding in innocent wit and humor. When I return 
home from private company, or the senate, I find 
eleven grandchildren, whose education, amusements, 
and songs, are the delight of my old age. I often sing 
myself along with them, for my voice is now clearer 
and stronger than it ever was in my youth ; and I am 
a stranger to those peevish and morose humors which 
fall so often to the lot of old age." In this happy dis- 
position he attained to his hundredth year; but his ex- 
ample has never been imitated.* 

There was a period when people in France seemed 

* I would earnestly advise people, before they begin this regi- 
men in the strictest sense, to consult their physician ; for absti- 
nence carried so far will not be salutary to every one. 

3 



26 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

to be so little acquainted with the value of blood, that 
Louis XIII, in the last ten months of his life, was bled 
forty-seven times; and besides he was made to take 
two hundred and fifteen purgatives, and to use a glys- 
ter two hundred and ten times. Soon after, attempts 
were made, by a process directly contrary, that of fill- 
ing the veins with fresh youthful blood, to invigorate 
and prolong the life of man and to remove incurable 
disorders. This method w^as called transfusion; and 
the operation was performed by opening two veins, 
and by means of a small pipe, conveying blood from 
the artery of another living creature into the one vein, 
whilst the blood was suffered to flow off through the 
other. Some successful experiments of this kind had 
been made in England upon animals; and it is certain 
that some old, lame beasts, sheep, calves, and horses, 
by filling their bodies with the blood of a young ani- 
mal, had acquired, at least, after some time, sufficient 
activity and vigor; nay, attemj)ts were even made to 
inspire courage into timorous animals by the blood of 
some wild and ferocious one. Encouraged by these ex- 
periments, people did not hesitate to try if they could 
not restore men by the same means. Dr. Denys and 
M. Emerez, at Paris, were indeed so fortunate as to 
cure a young man who labored under a lethargy which 
had resisted all the power of medicine, and during 
which he had been blooded twenty times, by filling his 
veins with the blood of a lamb; and likewise a lunatic, 
by exchanging his blood for that of a calf. But as 
only the most incurable and wretched of mankind were 
chosen for these experiments, it soon happened that 
some of them died during the operation ; and since 
that time no one has ventured to try it.* It has, how- 

* Transfusion has now become a standard and most important 
operation, and has been the means of saving many lives. It is 



METHOD BY TRANSFUSION. 



^ 



ever, been practised on animals here, at Jena, with 
great success; and indeed it ought not to be entirely 
rejected ; for though the strange blood introduced into 
our bodies must be soon converted into our own, and 
much, consequently, cannot be hoped from it in regard 
to renewing and prolonging life, the sudden and unac- 
customed impression made by new blood upon the no- 
blest of the vital organs, may still, in certain disorders, 
particularly of the mind and nervous system, produce 
a great and salutary revolution. 

The great Bacon, whose genius embraced every 
branch of science, and who first pointed out to the hu- 
man mind, whicli had long wandered amidst error, the 
path to conduct it back to truth, this great man him- 
self thought the question respecting the prolongation 
of life worthy of his attention and researches. His 

applied in cases of extreme loss of blood, wherein every other 
proceeding but that of the restoration of the lost blood, must ne- 
cessarily fail. The first idea of transfusion dates back to the early 
part of the seventeenth century, and is mentioned, in 1615, by An- 
dreas Libavius, in a work on the Transmutation of Metals. In 
England, the operation was performed on animals, by Dr. Lower 
and Mr. Edmund King, in the year 1666, and later in the same 
year, after the news of Denys' success, on the human subject. 
Dr. Denys and M. Emerez were the first to apply transfusion to 
man, and their first success was very wonderful ; the results how- 
ever proved unsatisfactory, and the operation was prohibited by 
Parliament. Dr. Riva met with a like want of success in Italy, 
and the operation was prohibited by an edict of the Pope. It 
was reserved for Dr. Blundell to discover the secret of its failure 
and revive transfusion in this country ; he pointed out the impro- 
priety of conveying the blood of animals into the human system, 
and was the first to employ human blood for the purpose. By 
paying attention to this rule, and the invention of suitable appar- 
atus, the operation may now be deemed perfectly safe ; a result 
for which we are indebted to Dr. James Blundell, Dr. Charles 
Waller, and Mr. Doubleday. — Editor. 



28 ART OP PROLONGING LIFE. 

ideas on this subject are bold and new. He considers 
life as a flame, which is continually consumed by the 
surrounding atmosphere. Every body, even the hard- 
est, is by this incessant evaporation decomposed and 
destroyed. He thence concludes that by guarding 
against this consumption, and by renewing our juices 
from time to time, life may be prolonged. For pre- 
venting external consumption, he recommends in par- 
ticular, the cold bath, and after bathing, that friction 
with oil and ointments which was so much practised 
by the ancients. To lessen internal consumption, he 
prescribes tranquillity of mind, cooling food, with the 
use of opium,* by which the too great vivacity of the 
internal emotions will be moderated, and the wasting 
connected with them will be retarded. But to remedy 
the unavoidable desiccation and corruption of the 
juices, the attendant of increasing years, he considers 
the best method to be to undergo every two or three 
years a renovating process, which consists in first free- 
ing the body from all the old and corrupted juices, by 
spare diet and cathartics; and then again filling the 
dry vessels with new juices, by means of choice re- 
freshing and nourishing food ; and thus, in the prop- 
erest sense, to renew and invigorate one's self periodi- 
cally. The truth contained in these ideas cannot be 
denied ; and, with some modification, these precepts 
might at all times be employed. 

* I trust that none of the readers of this book will be tempted 
to make use of opium or opiates, upon this prescription of Bacon. 
That philosopher must have reasoned upon the theoretical prop- 
erties of opiates as sedatives ; but practical observation proves 
them to be stimulants, and consequently means which tend to in- 
crease "internal consumption" very powerfully. The habitual 
use of opium and opiates would certainly have the effect of short- 
ening rather than of lengthening life. — Editor. 



METHOD BY MAGNETISM. 29 

At present, men have made more progress in the arts 
that shorten life than in that of prolonging it. Abund- 
ance of quacks have appeared, and still appear, who 
with astralish salts, gold tinctures, ethereal essences, 
celestial beds, and the magic of magnetism, promise to 
arrest the course of nature. It was, however, soon 
found that the celebrated tea of long life, of the Count 
de St. Germain, was only a very vulgar mixture of san- 
dal-wood, senna-leaves, and fennel; that the elixir of 
life, so much boasted of by Cagliostro, was merely a 
simple but very hot stomachic; that the wonderful 
virtue of magnetism depended on the combined effects 
of imagination, nervous irritation, and sensibility; and 
that the vaunted ethereal salts and gold tinctures con- 
tributed more to benefit their inventor, than to prolong 
the lives of those who employed them. 

The phenomenon of magnetism deserves in a par- 
ticular manner not to be omitted in this catalogue. 
Mesmer, an enthusiastic physician, who becoming a 
bankrupt had fallen into contempt, and who, in all 
probability, was not so much assisted by invisible 
powers as encouraged by negligent magistrates, at 
length conceived the idea of making artificial magnets, 
which he sold as a sovereign remedy for many diseases, 
such as lameness, the gout, toothache, headache, &c. 
As he found that this plan succeeded, he advanced a 
step further, and asserted that he had no more occasion 
for artificial magnets, but that he himself was the grand 
magnet which should magnetize the world. His own 
person, he pretended, was so filled with magnetic virtue 
that he could communicate it to another by the touch, 
by stretching out his finger, and even by a single look. 

He, indeed, produced instances of people who being 
touched by him, or even looked at, declared they had 
experienced sensations as if they had been struck with 

3* 



30 ART OF PROLONGINCl LIFE. 

a stick, or a piece of iron. This singular virtue he 
called animal magnetism; and he connected with that 
strange appellation whatever is dearest to man, life, 
wisdom, and health; which by these means he could 
dispense and diffuse at his pleasure. 

As he was not long permitted to propagate his en- 
thusiasm at Yienna, he removed to Paris ; and it was 
there that he first properly began to exhibit. He had 
astonishing success; every one wished to be cured by 
him ; and all were desirous of participating in his vir- 
tue, and of being able to perform miracles also. He 
established a secret society, every member of which 
was obliged to subscribe 100 louis d'ors; and he at 
length boldly declared that he was the man whom 
Providence had chosen for the grand business of reno- 
vating human nature, so visibly decayed. As a proof 
of what has been here said, I shall lay before the reader 
only the following address which he caused to be made 
to the public by one of his apostles: "Behold a dis- 
covery which will bring invaluable advantages to man- 
kind, and eternal fame to its author ! Behold a general 
revolution ! Other men will inhabit the earth ; they 
will be checked in their career of life by no weakness; 
and will be acquainted with our evils only by tradition ! 
Mothers will suffer less from the dangers of pregnancy 
and the pains of childbirth; and they will bring forth 
stronger children, who will possess the activity, energy, 
and courage of the old world. Animals and plants, 
alike susceptible of the magnetic virtue, will be free 
from diseases; flocks will more easily increase; the pro- 
ductions in our gardens will have more vigor; the trees 
will produce more beautiful fruit; and the human mind, 
in possession of this agent, will perhaps present to 
Nature effects still more wonderful. Who can know 
how far its influence may extend V 



ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 31 

One might imagine that one here reads some of those 
dreams of the middle ages ; but all these pompous prom- 
ises, and the prospects which they gave rise to, in- 
stantly vanished, when a commission, at the head of 
which was Dr. Franklin, had closely examined the 
agency of this magnetism. The veil was withdrawn, 
and nothing has remained of the whole deception except 
animal electricity, and the conviction that it can be put 
in activity by handling and stroking the body various 
ways; but it is certain that, without the help of nervous 
weakness and enthusiasm, it will never produce these 
wonderful phenomena, and that it is still less liable to 
prolong the life of man. 

It almost appears that mankind wish now to abandon 
these ideas entirely to quacks, especially as the more 
enlightened part make amends for the failure of this 
invention, by having found that the length of life does 
not consist in number of days, but in the use and enjoy- 
ment of it. 

But as it is impossible that the one can make up for 
the other, and as at present our acquaintance with the 
nature of organized life, and the laws to which it is sub- 
jected, has been enlarged and carried to greater perfec- 
tion, it is worth while to employ this improved knowl- 
edge in examining a matter of so much importance, and 
to establish the method of prolonging life in such a man- 
ner, on the principles of physics and animal economy, 
that not only a more definite rule of life may be thence 
deduced, but also that this object in future may be ren- 
dered of no use to quacks and impostors, who, as is well 
known, can carry on their deceptions within the pre- 
cincts of science only so long as they are not enlight- 
ened by the torch of accurate investigation. 



32 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 



CHAPTEE 11. 

Inquiry into the Nature of the Vital Power and the Duration op 
Life in general. Properties and Laws op the Vital Power. 
Definition of Life. Vital Consumption Inseparable Consequence 
op Vital Operation. Term op Life. Causes of the Duration of 
Life. Retardation of Vital Consumption. Possibility of Pro- 
longing Life. Intensive and Extensive Life. Sleep. 

The first thing necessary in regard to the prolonga- 
tion of life must undoubtedly be a more intimate ac- 
quaintance with the nature of life, and in particular 
with the vital power, the grand cause of all life. 

May it not be possible, therefore, to investigate more 
accurately the internal nature of that sacred flame, and 
thence to discover by what it can be nourished, and by 
what it is weakened ? I am perfectly sensible of the 
boldness of this undertaking. I approach the sanctum 
sanctorum of Nature; and we have too many instances 
of daring adventurers, who, blinded in such attempts, 
were obliged to turn back with confusion ; and Haller 
himself, her most intimate confidant, was forced to 
exclaim : 

No mortal being, howe'er keen his eye, 
Can into Nature's deepest secrets pry. 

This, however, ought not to deter us. Nature is, at 
all times, a kind mother; she loves and rewards those 
who seek for her; and though it may not always be 
possible for us to reach the perhaps too exalted object 
of our aim, we may, nevertheless, be certain to find, by 
the way, so much new and interesting matter as will 



NATURE OF THE VITAL POWER. 33 

amply reward us for attempting to approach nearer to 
her. Let us ouly beware of forcing ourselves upon her 
with too rash and precipitate steps ; let our minds be 
unprejudiced and open to conviction; let our progress 
be cautious ; let us ever be attentive to guard against 
deception and phantoms of the mind ; and let our path, 
if not the most convenient, be the certain path of ex- 
perience and regular proof; and let us shun the bolder 
flights of hypothesis, which, in the end, generally prove 
to the world that the wings which supported them 
were cemented with wax. In this path we shall, with 
the greatest certainty, avoid the fate of those philoso- 
phers of whom Bacon says, with much justice, " They 
are night-owls, who see their visions in darkness, but 
become blind in the light of experience; and who per- 
ceive least that which is clearest." By this path, and 
with such a disposition of mind, the friends of Nature, 
since the time of that great man, have approached 
nearer to her than any one ever did before ; discoveries 
have been made respecting her most hidden secrets; 
and her most concealed powers have been applied to 
purposes which astonish the present age, and which 
will still excite the wonder of posterity. By these 
means it has been possible, through indefatigable re- 
search, even without knowing the internal nature of 
things, to determine and estimate her powers and prop- 
erties so accurately that we at least have a practical 
knowledge of them, and can employ them for the uses 
of life. The mind of man has thus been able to subdue 
even unknown agents; to direct them according to 
pleasure, and render them of utility. The magnetic 
and the electric power are agents which both elude our 
senses, and whose nature will, perhaps, remain eternally 
unsearchable ; yet we have rendered them so service- 
able to us, that by the one we can direct our course 



34 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

through the ocean, and with the other kindle ournight- 
lamp while in bed. 

I also, perhaps, shall be able to approach nearer to 
Nature in the present research ; and I flatter myself 
that the following method of treating my subject will 
be the most proper to enable me to attain the object I 
have in view : first, to define more accurately what is 
meant by life and the vital power, and also to establish 
their properties ; next, to consult Nature respecting the 
duration of life in general, and that of different organ- 
ized bodies in particular ; to collect and compare ex- 
amples; and, from the circumstances and situations in 
which the life of a created being has a longer or shorter 
duration, to draw a general conclusion in regard to the 
most probable causes of the shortness or long duration 
of existence. After these premises^ a more rational and 
satisfactory answer may be given to the question, 
Whether and in what manner the life of man can be 
prolonged ? 

What is life? and what is the vital power? These 
questions may be classed among many of the like kind 
which occur to us during our researches into Nature. 
They appear simple ; relate to the most common phe- 
nomena; and are, however, difficult to be answered. 
Wherever the philosopher uses the word Power, one 
may always be assured that he labors under a difficulty, 
since he explains a thing by a word which is itself a 
problem ; for, who has ever yet combined a clear idea 
with the word Power ? In this manner has been intro- 
duced into physics an infinite variety of powers : the 
power of gravity, the power of attraction, the electric 
power, the magnetic power, which, at bottom, signify 
nothing more than the letter that expresses the un- 
known quantity in algebra. We must, however, have 
expressions for things whose existence is undeniable, 



NATURE OP THE VITAL POWER. 35 

though their agency be incomprehensible; and I hope 
I shall be here permitted to use them, though it is not 
yet determined whether what I treat of be really mat- 
ter, or only a property of it. 

The vital power is, without dispute, one of the most 
general, the most incomprehensible, and the most pow- 
erful of all the powers of Nature. It fills and gives mo- 
tion to everything ; and, in all probability, is the grand 
source from which all the other powers of the physical, 
or at least the organized, world proceed. It is that 
which produces, supports, and renews everything ; by 
it the creation, after so many thousands of years, revives 
every spring with the same freshness and beauty as 
when it first came from the hand of its Maker. It is 
inexhaustible and infinite, a real eternal emanation of 
the Deity. In short, it is this which, purified and ex- 
alted by a more perfect organization, kindles up the 
powers of thought and of the soul; and which gives to 
rational beings, together with life, the sensation and 
enjoyment of it. For I have remarked, that the sensa- 
tion of the value and felicity of life is always very 
nearly proportioned to the greater or less abundance 
of the vital power ; and that, as a certain overflow of 
it makes one more capable of action and exertion, and 
of relishing life, nothing is so capable as a want of it 
to produce that misery and dejection which unfortu- 
nately distinguish the present age so much. 

By accurate observation of its phenomena in the 
organized world, the following properties and laws of 
it may be established : 

Ist. The vital power is the most subtle, the most 
penetrating, and the most invisible agent of Nature, 
with which we are as yet acquainted. In these respects 
it exceeds light, electricity, and magnetism, to which, 
however, it seems to have the closest affinity. 



36 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

2d. Though it pervades everything, there are certain 
modifications of matter to which it appears to have 
greater relationship than to others. It unites, there- 
fore, with these in greater ahundance, as well as in a 
more intimate manner, and becomes, as it were, peculiar 
to them. This modification of matter we call organic 
combination, and structure of component parts; and 
the bodies which possess them we call organized bodies 
— plants and animals. This organic structure seems to 
consist in a certain disposition of the finest particles, 
and we here find a remarkable similarity of the vital 
power to that of magnetism ; as the latter, by a stroke 
given to a piece of iron, in a certain direction, and which 
alters the internal disposition of the finest component 
parts, is immediately excited, and may be again destroy- 
ed by a contrary derangement. That, at any rate, the 
organic structure does not lie in the visible tissue or 
web, may be seen in an egg, in which no traces of or- 
ganized life can be found, though it is certain that it 
there exists. 

3d. It can exist both in a free and a fixed state; and 
in this it has a great resemblance to fire and electricity. 
As these may reside in a body without manifesting 
themselves externally until thej^ are called forth by a 
suitable stimulus, the vital power, in like manner, may 
long reside in a fixed state, in an organized body, with- 
out indicating itself in any other way than by support- 
ing and preserving itself from dissolution. Of this 
we have some astonishing instances. A grain of corn 
can retain life in a fixed state for years, and an egg 
several months: it neither evaporates nor corrupts; 
and the stimulus of heat alone can disengage the con- 
fined power, and call forth the expansive principle of 
life. -N^ay, the already expanding organic life can in 
this manner be again checked and confined, yet exist 



NATURE OP THE VITAL POWER. 37 

some time in that state, and preserve the organization 
intrusted to it, of which the polypes and animal plants 
in particular afford us the most remarkable instances. 

4th. As it seems to have a different affinitj^to differ- 
ent organized bodies, and abound more in some and 
less in others, its union with some is likewise stronger, 
and with others weaker. And it is worthy of remark, 
that, where it abounds in the greatest quantity and per- 
fection, it seems there to be more loosely combined. 
To the imperfect, weak-lived polype, for example, it 
adheres with more force than to a more perfect animal 
in a higher degree of existence. For the present in- 
quiry this observation is of the utmost importance. 

5th. It gives to every body which it pervades an 
entirel}^ new character, a specific superiority to other 
parts of the corporeal world. In the first place, it 
renders them susceptible of impressions as a stimulus, 
and makes them capable of reaction; and, secondly, it 
frees them from the general physical and chemical laws 
of inanimate nature : so that one may with propriety 
say, by the assistance of the vital power a body is 
transferred from the mechanical and chemical world to 
a new one, the organic or living world. Here the gene- 
ral physical laws of Nature have place only in part, 
and with certain limitations. All impressions in a liv- 
ing body are modified and counteracted in a manner 
different from what they are in an inanimate body. In 
a living body, therefore, no process merely mechanical 
or chemical is possible; and everything assumes- the 
character of life. A blow, or any stimulus, cold and 
heat, act in a living body according to laws altogether 
peculiar; and in every effect thence produced must be 
considered as compounded of the external impression 
and the reaction of the vital power. 

In this lie the grounds of the peculiarity of different 
4 



38 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

species, and even of diiferent individuals. We observe 
daily that plants which grow near each other in the 
same soil, and which receive the very same nourish- 
ment, are widely different in their form, sap, and prop- 
erties. This is the case also in the animal kingdom; 
and hence the common expression, "every one has his 
own peculiar nature." 

6th. The vital power is the principal support of the 
body in which it resides. It not only binds and keeps 
together the whole organization, but it counteracts 
also, very strongly, the destructive influence of the 
other powers of Nature, so far as they depend on 
chemical laws, which it is able to annihilate, or at least 
to modify. Among these I reckon, in particular, the 
effects of putrefaction^ of the atmosphere, and of frost. 
No living being putrefies; a previous weakening or 
annihilation of the vital power is always necessary in 
order to render corruption possible. Even in a fixed 
and inactive state, it is able to keep off corruption. 
No Qgg, so long as it contains the vital power; no grain 
of corn, no silkworm inclosed in its cocoon, no insect 
apparently dead, corrupts; and it is trul}^ astonishing 
how it can preserve bodies which have such a strong 
tendency to putrefaction as that of man has, for sixty, 
eighty, or a hundred years. By its binding property 
it withstands the power of the atmosphere, the second 
cause of destruction, which, in the end, dissolves the 
hardest bodies, and make them fall to pieces. In like 
manner, the dangerous excitation of the particles of 
fire keeps off frost. No living body freezes ; that is to 
say, so long as its vital power is in activity, frost can- 
not destroy it. Amidst the ice mountains of the South 
and North pole, where all Nature appears to be in a 
state of torpor, one sees living creatures, and even men. 



NATURE OP THE VITAL POWER. 39 

who are not affected by the general congelation.* This 
property of the vital power seems not confined merely 
to its active, but to belong also to its fixed state. An 
egg, or a grain of corn, possessed of life, freezes much 
later than one that is dead. The bear passes the whole 
winter, half torpid, among the snow; the apparently 
dead swallow and the pupas of insects continue under 
the ice without being frozen. When the frost increases 
so much as to weakon or oppress the vital power, it can 
then, only, overcome it, and penetrate a living body. 
This phenomenon depends in particular on that prop- 
erty which the vital power possesses, of exciting 
warmth ; as we shall see hereafter. 

7th. A total loss of the vital power is attended with 
a dissolution of the organized structure of the body 
which it before filled. The matter of the body obeys 
the laws and affinities of inanimate chemical nature, 
to which it now belongs; its first principles are divided 
and separated; and corruption, under the usual circum- 
stances, follows; w^hich can alone convince us that a 
body has been totally deprived of the vital power. But 
it is a great and striking observation, that corruption 
itself, which seems to annihilate all life, must be the 
means of calling forth new life again ; and that it is 
properly nothing else than a highly important process 
to disengage in the speediest manner the component 
parts, no longer susceptible of life under that form, and 
to make them fit for new organic combination and life. 
No sooner is a body thus decomposed than its fine par- 

* The Galanthus nivalis j snowdrop, pushes itself from the frozen 
earth through the snow, and its flower remains unhurt, notwith- 
standing the severe night frosts. Mr. Hunter caused fish to be 
frozen into water. As long as they lived, the water, though con- 
gealed everywhere else, remained around them fluid, and formed 
a real hole ; but as soon as they died, that part froze up also. 



40 ART OP PROLONGING LIFE. 

tides begin to be again animated in a thousand small 
worms, or to display their revival under the figure of 
beautiful grass : the most vivid flowers recommence, in 
this manner, the great circle of organic life ; and, by a 
few changes, become, a year after, component parts 
perhaps of as perfect a human being as that which they 
appeared to corrupt. Their apparent death was only 
a transition to a new life; and the vital power leaves a 
body only that it may unite itself again with it in a 
more perfect manner. 

8th. The vital power may be weakened, and even 
totally destroyed, b}^ certain causes ; and by others can 
be excited, strengthened, and nourished. Among those 
which destroy it may be reckoned in particular, cold, 
the great enemy of all life. A moderate degree of cold, 
however, can be so far strengthening, as it concentrates 
the vital power and prevents its consumption: but this 
strengthening is negative, not positive; and a higher 
degree of cold banishes it entirely. In cold, no vital 
expansion can take place ; no egg can be hatched; no 
grain of corn shoot forth. 

To these also belong certain derangements, which 
seem to have effect partly by annihilating the vital 
power, and partly by a destructive alteration of the 
internal organized disposition of the particles. Thus a 
violent electric shock, or lightning, deprives plants and 
animals of life, instantaneously, without leaving the 
least trace of their having injured the organs; and 
thus among more perfect beings, in particular, may 
the vital power be destroyed, in a moment, by violent 
agitations of the mind, such as sudden fear or joy. 

Lastly, there are certain physical powers which are 
highly capable of weakening and even of annihilating 
it ; and these, therefore, we commonly call poisons : as, 



LIGHT AND HEAT. 41 

for example, the small-pox infection, laurel water, the 
essential oil of bitter almonds, &c. 

But there are agents also of a contrary kind, which 
have a friendship for, and an affinity to, the vital power; 
and which are capable of exciting, invigorating, and, in 
great probability, of affording it a subtle nourishment. 
These, in particular, are, light, heat, and air, or rather 
oxygen; three celestial gifts, which, with great pro- 
priety, may be called the friends and guardian spirits 
of life. 

Light, the first of these, is, without doubt, the most 
intimate friend and relation of life ; and, in this respect, 
has certainly a much more essential effect than is com- 
monly believed. The life of every created being is the 
more perfect the more it enjoys the influence of light. 
Let a plant or an animal be deprived of light, notwith- 
standing every nourishment, care, and cultivation, it 
will first lose its color, then its strength, and at last 
entirely decay. Even man, who passes his life in dark- 
ness, becomes pale, relaxed and heavy, and at Jength 
loses the whole energy of life ; as is proved by the many 
melancholy instances of persons shut up in gloomy dun- 
geons. Nay, I do not think I say too much when I 
assert, that organized life is possible only under the 
influence of light, and in all probability through it ; for 
in the bowels of the earth, in the deepest caverns, 
where eternal night prevails, nothing is seen but what 
we call unorganized life. There nothing breathes, there 
nothing feels ; and the only productions which one finds 
are a few kinds of mould and stone moss, the first most 
imperfect degree of vegetation. For that reason this 
vegetation, for the most part, shows itself only on old 
or rotten wood. The expansion of organized life must, 
therefore, be here excited by wood and water, or by 

4* 



42 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

that putrefaction which generates life, and which in 
those abysses does not exist. 

The second, no less beneficent friend of the vital 
power, is heat, which is alone able to call forth the 
first movements of life. When winter has reduced all 
nature to a deathlike condition, let the genial warmth 
of the spring atmosphere only breathe upon it, and all 
its dormant powers are awakened to activity. The 
nearer we approach the poles everything becomes 
deader, and we at length find districts where absolutely 
no plant, insect, or small animal can exist, and where 
only large masses of being, such as whales, bears, and 
the like, can retain that warmth necessary for life. In 
a word, w^here there is life there is heat, in a greater or 
less degree; and between both there is a very impor- 
tant and inseparable connection. Warmth gives life, 
and life again excites warmth; and it seems difficult to 
determine which is the cause, and which the effect. 

Of the extraordinary power which heat has to nour- 
ish and awaken life, the following entirely new and de- 
cisive instance deserves to be mentioned. On the 2d 
of August, 1790, a carabinier, named Petit, threw him- 
self, entirely naked, into the Rhine, from a window of 
the military hospital at Strasburg. This circumstance 
was observed about three o'clock in the afternoon; and 
the body remained above half an hour in the water be- 
fore it was drawn out, to all appearance jDerfectly dead. 
It was placed in a bed thoroughly warmed, with the 
head raised up, the arms stretched out close to it on each 
side, and the legs laid together. No other process was 
employed than the application of warm cloths to the 
stomach and legs. Warm stones, also, wrapped up in 
cloth, were placed in different parts of the bed. In the 
course of seven or eight minutes a small motion was 
observed in the ej-elids. A little while after, the under 



LIGHT AND HEAT. 48 

jaw, which had been fast locked to the upper one, be- 
came loose; the patient foamed at the mouth, and he 
was able to swallow a few spoonfuls of wine. His pulse 
now returned, and at the end of an hour he was able to 
speak. Warmth, in cases of apparent death, acts evi- 
dently with as much power as on the first expansion of 
life ; it nourishes the smallest sparks of the vital prin- 
ciple still remaining; fans them, and gradually rouses 
them into a flame. 

The third important nourisher of life is air. We find 
no being that can live entirely without air; and sudden, 
sometimes instantaneous, death is to most of them the 
consequence of its being withdrawn. What makes its 
influence highly visible is, that those animals which 
breathe are more abundant in the vital power, and 
possess it in greater perfection, than those which do 
not breathe. Dephlogisticated or empyreal air appears, 
principally, to be that component part of our atmos- 
phere which aff'ords the strongest and best nourishment 
to the vital power : and in the present age, since the 
wonder-working art of Chemistry has taught us to pro- 
duce it pure, people, on inspiring it, have experienced 
a general sensation of strengthening and invigoration. 
The grand principle of this empyreal or vital air is by 
chemists called oxygen ; and this component part is that 
properly which in the air contains life, and passes into 
the blood by breathing. Water, also, belongs to the 
agents friendly to life, so far as it contains oxygen ; and 
it certainly promotes life, for without fluidity no ex- 
pansion of life is possible. 

I think I may with justice, therefore, assert, that 
light, heat, and oxygen, are the real proper nourish- 
ment and sus^.enance of the vital power. Grosser kinds 
of nourishment, setting aside the quantity of oxygen 
and empyreal matter which they contain, seem to serve 



44 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

rather for supporting the organs and repairing the con- 
sumption. "Were not this the case, one could not explain 
how created beings can maintain life so long without 
nourishment. Let us only consider the chicken in an 
egg. It lives without the smallest external support; 
expands itself, and becomes a perfect animal. A hya- 
cinth, or any other bulbous plant, can, without the least 
nourishment — except the evaporation of water — expand 
and shoot forth a stem crowned with beautiful leaves 
and flowers. Even among more perfect animals we 
observe phenomena which would otherwise be inexplic- 
able. Dr. George Fordyce, for example, inclosed gold- 
fish in vessels filled with well-water; he gave them at 
first fresh water every twenty-four hours, but after- 
wards only every three days ; and yet they lived fifteen 
months without any nourishment, and, what is more 
wonderful, became twice as big. But, as it might have 
been believed that the water contained a multitude of 
invisible nutritive particles, he distilled it; added air 
to it again ; and, to prevent the introduction of insects, 
closed up the vessels with great care. Notwithstand- 
ing all this, the fish lived a long time, increased in size, 
and had excretions. How is it possible that man him- 
self could endure hunger so long and yet retain life, if 
the nutriment of the vital power were necessarily 
derived from the substances by which he is nourished? 
A French officer, after a tedious and severe illness, was 
seized with a mental disorder, during which he resolved 
to starve himself to death ; and he continued so firm to 
his purpose that for the space of forty-six days he did 
not take the smallest grain of food. On the fifth day 
he asked only for some distilled water; and as half a 
pint of anise-seed water was given to him, he used the 
whole of it in three days. His friends, however, having 
represented to him that this quantity was too much, he 



PROLONGED ABSTINENCE. 



4h 



r 

■* put into each glass of water that he drank no more than 
H three drops; and in this manner his half-pint lasted till 
IH the thirty-ninth day. He then gave over drinking, 
|B and for the last eight days took nothing at all. After 
the thirty-sixth day he was obliged to lie in bed; and 
it is remarkable that this man, extremely clean in other 
respects, exhaled during the whole time of his fasting, 
a very offensive smell, in consequence of the interrupted 
renovation of his juices, and the corruption attending 
it; and that his eyes became weak. All advice proved 
ineffectual, and his friends gave him up as lost, when 
the voice of Nature was suddenly awakened within him 
by an accident. He saw a child with a piece of bread- 
and-butter enter the apartment where he was. This 
sight excited his appetite so much at once that he begged 
for some soup. A few spoonfuls of rice broth were now 
given him every two hours ; some stronger food was 
gradually added ; and his health, though slowly, was in 
this manner again whollj^ restored. But it is very 
singular that while he fasted and was weak, his phrensy 
and wild imaginations forsook him, and that he answered 
when addressed by his usual name; but as soon as he 
had acquired strength by eating, his whole train of in- 
coherent ideas again returned.* 

9th. There is still a cause which tends to weaken 
and diminish the vital power, and which lies in itself, 
viz., the loss it sustains by exerting its strength. By 
every exertion it loses some of its force; and when 
these exertions are too violent, or continued without 
intermission, the consequence is that it may be com- 
pletely exhausted. This is proved by common experi- 
ence, as we find that, after great exertion in walking, 
thinking, &c., we become fatigued. It is shown still 

* See Hist, de TAcademie Eoyale des Sciences. An. 1769. 



46 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

more clearly by the experiments of Galvani, in which, 
after death, a muscle and nerves, still alive, may be ir- 
ritated by the application of metal. If this irritation be 
often and strongly repeated, the power will be sooner 
exhausted; but if slowly, it will be exhausted later: 
and even when it appears to be totally exhausted, one, 
by intermitting the irritation for some time, can occa- 
sion a new accumulation of it, and produce fresh ex- 
ertions. Hence arises a new means of strengthening, 
namely rest, or a suspension of exertion, by which in- 
deed the power cfin be accumulated and increased. 

10th. The most immediate functions of the vital 
power are not only to receive impressions, such as irri- 
tation, and to react upon them, but also to change into 
organized nature the component parts which are added 
to the body ; that is, to unite them according to the 
laws of organization, and also to give them that struc- 
ture and form which the end of organization requires. 

11th. The vital power pervades all the parts of an 
organized living bod3^, whether fluids or solids; but it 
manifests itself in different ways, according to the dif- 
ference of the organs: in the nerves, by sensibility; in 
the muscles, by irritability, &c. This it does for some 
time visibly and without interruption, and is what we 
name generation or growth until the organized body 
has attained to its destined degree of perfection. This 
plastic, creative power, does not, however, cease to act ; 
but what was before growth, becomes now constant 
renovation ; and this incessant regeneration is one of 
the most important means which support the being. 

These observations on the nature of this wonderful 
power are sufficient. It will now be easier for us to 
speak in a more precise manner on the influence which 
this power has on life; to explain what life properly 



NATURE OF LIFE. 



4t 



is; and to so say something decisive concerning its 
duration. 

Life, in an organized being, means the free active 
state of the before-mentioned power, and the activity 
and efficiency of the organs inseparably connected 
with it. The vital power, therefore, is only capacity; 
life itself action. Every life, consequently, is a con- 
tinued operation of the efficiency of the power and of 
organic exertion. A continual consumption of the 
power and of the organs is necessarily the immediate 
consequence of this process; and, on that account, an 
incessant renovation of both is requisite in order that 
life may be supported. The process of life may then 
be considered as a continued process of consumption ; 
and its essence may be defined an uninterrupted wast- 
ing and reparation of ourselves. Life has been already 
often compared to a flame; and indeed the operation 
in both is the same. Destructive and creative powers 
are engaged, with never-ceasing activity, in a continual 
struggle within us ; and every moment of our existence 
is a single mixture of annihilation and new creation. 
As long as the vital power retains its freshness and 
energy, the living plastic powers will have the superi- 
ority, and afford it protection in this contest ; the body 
will also increase and approach nearer to perfection. 
By little and little they will balance each other, and, 
the consumption becoming equal to the renovation, the 
body will at length decrease. At last, the vital power 
being lessened, and the organs worn out, the consump- 
tion will begin to exceed the renovation ; and decay, 
degradation, and, in the end, a total dissolution will un- 
avoidably follow. This is universally the case. Every , 
created being passes through three periods : that of its 
growth, that of its being stationary, and that of its 
decline. 



48 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

The duration of life, in general, depends on the fol- 
lowing points : 

1. On the quantity of the vital power which resides 
in the being. A greater sujjply of the vital power 
will naturally last much longer, and be later consumed, 
than a smaller. Now we know, from what has been 
before said, that the vital power has a greater affinity 
to some bodies, and to others a less ; that it abounds 
much more in some than in others; and that many 
external causes tend to weaken it, and many to nourish 
it. This, therefore, gives us the first and most im- 
portant ground of the difference in the duration of life. 

2. But, besides the vital power, the organs also are 
consumed and wasted by living; and, consequently, a 
total consumption must take place later in a body the 
organs of which are strong, than in one of a delicate 
structure more liable to dissolution. Besides, the opera- 
tion of life itself requires the continual agency of cer- 
tain organs, which we therefore call the vital organs. 
If these be diseased, or unfit for use, life cannot con- 
tinue. A certain firmness of organization, and a proper 
condition of the vital organs, form the second ground 
on which the duration of life depends. 

3. The jDrocess of consumption may be carried on 
more slowly, or more rapidly; and, consequently, the 
duration of it, or what we call life, even when the 
powers and organs are perfectly alike, wnll be longer or 
shorter in proportion to the quickness or slowness of 
the operation; just as a candle lighted at both ends at 
the same time burns twice as fast as one lighted in the 
usual manner, or as a light in oxygen gas is consumed 
ten times faster than one of the same kind in common 
air, because by that medium the process of consump- 
tion is increased and accelerated in a tenfold propor- 



DURATION OF LIFE. 49 

tion. This affords the third ground of difference in the 
duration of life. 

4. As renovation of what is lost and continual re- 
generation are the principal means of counteracting 
the consumption, those bodies which internally and 
externally have the best means of regenerating them- 
selves with most ease, and in the greatest perfection, 
will naturally be of longer duration than those which 
are destitute of that advantage. 

In short, the duration of life in a being will be pro- 
portioned to the innate quantity of vital power, the 
greater or less firmness of its organs, the speedier or 
slower consumption, and perfect or imperfect restoration. 
All ideas on the prolongation of life, as well as all the 
means which have been or may be proposed on that 
subject, can be brought under these four classes, and 
be examined upon these principles. 

From these, several important deductions may be 
made, and several obscure questions may be answered, 
of which I shall only mention a few. 

Is the extent of life determined or not? This ques- 
tion has often given rise to disputes in which divines 
and philosophers have been divided, and which have 
several times brought the medical art into great diffi- 
culties. On the above principles, however, it may be 
easily resolved. Each race of beings, as well as each 
individual, has its term of life as certainly fixed as it 
has its defined size, and its proper quantity of vital 
power, strength of organs, and means of consumption 
or regeneration; for the duration of life is a conse- 
quence of that consumption, and can continue no longer 
than power and organs are able to support it. But 
this consumption may be hastened or retarded : favor- 
able or unfavorable, destructive or beneficial circum- 

6 



50 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

stances may have an influence upon itj and it thence 
follows that, notwithstanding the before-mentioned nat- 
ural determination, the limits of it may be altered. 

A general answer may now be given also to the fol- 
lowing question : Is it possible to prolong life ? Un- 
doubtedly it is; but not by magical cures or gold tinc- 
tures; nor can we hope to increase the quantity and 
efficacy of the vital power which has been dispensed 
to us, or to alter the whole determination of Nature. 
Whatever is done must be effected by proper attention 
to the above four points, on which the duration of life 
properly depends; by strengthening the vital power 
and the organs; by retarding consumption, and by 
promoting or facilitating renovation or regeneration. 
The more food, clothing, manner of living, climate, and 
even artificial means are favorable to these requisites, 
the more influence they will have in the prolongation 
of life ; the more they counteract these, the more will 
they shorten the duration of existence. 

What I call retardation of vital consumption, as 
being, in my opinion, the most important means of pro- 
longing life, deserves here, in a particular manner, to 
be considered. If we suppose that each body is pos- 
sessed of a certain quantity of vital power, and certain 
organs which make as it were our stock of life, and that 
life consists in a consumption of them, it must be allow- 
ed that this stock may be naturally consumed by a 
stronger exertion of the organs, and by the speedier 
wasting which is connected with it. He who in a day 
consumes twice as much of the vital power as another, 
w^ill exhaust his stock sooner; and organs used with 
double force will in half the time be worn out and be- 
come useless. The energy of life, therefore, will be in 
an inverse ratio w4th its duration ; or the more inten- 
sively a being lives, the more will its life lose in exten- 



INTENSIVE AND EXTENSIVE LIFE. 6| 



r 

■■ sion. The expression fast living^ which, as well as the 
IH thing itself, is at present so common, is not then alto- 
^H gether improper. One may certainly make the process 
^H of vital consumption, whether it consists in labor or 
^B enjoyment, more or less rapid, and thus live either fast 
mm or slowly. In future I shall distinguish the one by the 
expression intensive life, and the other by that of exten- 
sive life. This truth is confirmed, not only among men, 
but also throughout all Nature. The less intensive the 
life of a being is, the longer will be its duration. If 
the intensive life of a plant be increased by heat, ma- 
' nure, and artificial means, it will expand itself to per- 

fection more rapidly, but it will also soon decay. Even 
a being which naturally possesses an abundant stock of 
vital power will, when its life is intensively active, be 
I of shorter duration than another less abundant in vital 

power, but which has by nature a life less intensive. 
Thus it is certain, for example, that the higher classes 
of animals have the vital power in far greater quantity 
and perfection than vegetables ; yet a tree lives a hun- 
dred times as long as the spirited horse, because the 
life of the tree is intensively weaker. In this manner, 
weakening circumstances, when they only lessen the 
intensive activity of life, may be the means of pro- 
longing it; and, on the other hand, influences which 
strengthen and excite life, when they increase the inter- 
nal activity too much, may be prejudicial to its dura- 
tion. Hence it is evident how very sound health may 
shorten the duration of life, and a certain kind of weak- 
ness be the best means of prolonging it; and that the 
diet and means used for lengthening life, cannot be 
altogether those which are commonly called corrobora- 
tive. In this respect, Nature herself gives us the best 
lesson, as she has connected with the existence of every 
more perfect being, a certain regulation, which is able 



52 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

to check the stream of its vital consumption, and there- 
by prevent too rapid wasting. I here allude to sleep, 
a condition which takes place in every animal of a per- 
fect kind: a disposition of the utmost wisdom, which, 
in directing and retarding the vital consumption, acts 
in the same manner as the pendulum of a clock. The 
time of sleep is nothing else than a suspension of inten- 
sive life, or an apparent loss of it; but even in this 
suspension, this interruption of its activity, lies one of 
the greatest means of preserving it. A twelve or six- 
teen hours' uninterrupted continuation of intensive life 
causes such an impetuous stream of consumption as 
produces a more violent pulse, a kind of general fever, 
the so-call&d daily evening fever. Sleep then comes to 
the relief of the body; reduces it to a more passive 
condition ; and after seven or eight hours' pause of this 
kind, the destructive stream of vital consumption is so 
much checked, what has been lost is so fully renewed, 
that pulsation and all its other movements are again 
performed slowly and regularlj^, and everything pro- 
ceeds with a peaceful course as before.* Nothing, there- 
fore, is able to waste and destroy us so speedily as long- 
continued want of sleep. Trees even, those Nestors of 
the vegetable kingdom, without the annual sleep of 
winter, would not be able to preserve their lives so 
long.f 

* Old people, therefore, sleep less, because their intensive life, 
or vital consumption, is weaker, and requires less restoration. 

f In many plants we even find something which ma}'^ with great 
propriety be compared to the daily sleep of man. Their leaves 
every evening are contracted, or droop : their flowers shut them- 
selves up, and their whole external appearance displays a state of 
rest and repose. Some have ascribed this to the coolness and 
moisture of the evening : but the same thing takes place also in 
the greenhouse. Others have considered it as a consequence of 



DURATION OF THE LIFE OF PLANTS. 53 



CHAPTER III. 

Duration op the Life of Plants ; Diversity of it. Annual, Bien- 
nial, Perennial. Experiments respecting Circumstances by 
WHICH THIS IS Determined ; Result of Them. Application of the 
Fundamental Principles of the Duration of Life. Great Influ- 
ence OP Attention and Culture on the Duration of the Life op 
Plants. 

In order to prove and confirm what has been before 
said, let me now be permitted to take a view of all the 
classes of the organized world, and endeavor to estab- 
lish on solid principles what I have asserted. This 
will give us an opportunity of becoming acquainted 
with the most important collateral circumstances which 
have an influence in prolonging or shortening life. How 
infinitely various is the duration of the difi'erent organ- 
ized beings ! Between the mould, which lives only a 
couple of hours, and the cedar, which can attain to the 
age of a thousand years, what a difi'erence; how num- 
berless the intermediate degrees ; what a variety of 
life ! The grounds, however, of this longer or shorter 
duration must lie in the structure of each being. This 
is an important and interesting circumstance, but at 
the same time of the utmost extent. I must, there- 
fore, content myself with deducing from it the princi- 

darkness ; but many shut themselves up in summer at six o'clock 
in the afternoon. Nay, the Tragopogon luteum shuts itself up so 
early as nine in the morning ; and this plant, therefore, gives us 
reason to compare it to certain night birds and beasts of the animal 
world, which are active only during night, and sleep in the day- 
time. Every hour of the day even has some plant which then 
shuts itself up, and on this is founded what is called a plant-dial. 

6* 



54 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

pal data, and exhibiting them in our present point of 
view. 

In this respect, plants, that immense world of crea- 
tion, that first degree of organized beings which nourish 
themselves by internal appropriation, form an individual 
and propagate their race, first present themselves to our 
view. What infinite variety of shape, organization, size, 
and duration ! According to the latest discoveries and 
calculations, they amount to forty thousand genera and 
species at least ! 

They may all, however, be reduced, according to their 
duration of life, into three principal classes: annual, or 
properly only serai-annual, which grow up in spring, 
and die in autumn; biennial, which die at the end of 
the second year; and, lastly, perennial, the duration of 
which extends from four to a thousand j^ears. 

All plants of a soft watery constitution, and which 
have fine tender organs, have a short life, and last only 
one or at most two years: those alone which have 
stronger organs and tougher juices exist longer; but 
wood is absolutely necessary in order to attain to the 
highest degree of vegetable existence. 

Even among those which live only one or two years 
a remarkable difference may be observed. Those which 
are of a cold insipid nature, and destitute of smell, live, 
under like circumstances, not so long as the strong- 
scented balsamic plants, which contain more essential 
oil and spirits. Lettuce, wheat, oats, barley, and all 
kinds of corn, live no more than a year; but, on the 
other hand, thyme, mint, hyssop, balm, wormwood, 
marjoram, sage, &c., can live two years, and even longer. 

Shrubs and small trees can live sixty years, and some 
even twice that number. The vine attains to sixty or 
a hundred years, and continues fruitful at the greatest 
age. This is the case also with rosemary. The acan- 



LIFE IN THE VEGETABLE KINGDOM. 65 



F 

■■ thus and ivy, however, can exceed the age of a hundred. 
W^M Among many such, for example, as the different kinds 
^^m of rubus,"^ it is difficult to determine the age, as the 
^^m branches creep along the ground, and always form new 
^^m plants, so that it is almost impossible to distinguish the 
^^K new from the old; and by these means they make their 
WK existence as it were perennial. 

Those which attain to the highest age are the greatest, 
strongest, and hardest trees ; such as the oak, the lime- 
tree, the beech, the chestnut, the elm, the plane-tree, 
the cedar, the olive, the palm, the mulberry-tree, and 
the baobab.f We may with certainty affirm, that some 
of the cedars of Lebanon, the celebrated chestnut tree 
di centi cavalli in Sicily, and several of the sacred oaks 
under which the ancient Germans performed their re- 
ligious ceremonies, may have attained to the age of a 
thousand years and more. These are the most vener- 
able, the only now existing testimonies of the ancient 
world, and inspire us with reverence and awe when the 
rustling wind plays through their silvery locks, which 
once served to overshade the Druids and our wild an- 
cestors clothed in their bearskins. 

All trees of a rapid growth, such as the fir, the birch, 
the horse chestnut, and the like, yield always less solid 
and durable wood, and the period of their existence is 
shorter. The oak, which is the slowest in growing of 

* Common bramble, blackberry, raspberry. 

f This newly discovered tree [Adansonia digitata), seems to be 
one of those which lives to the greatest age. Its trunk acquires 
the thickness of twenty-five feet in diameter; and Adanson,inthe 
middle of the present century, found trees only six feet in diameter 
which had cut on them the names of seafaring people who had 
visited them in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, yet these in- 
cisions had become very little extended. 



56 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

all, has the hardest wood, and its life is of the longest 
duration. 

Smaller vegetables have, in general, a shorter life 
than those which are large, tall, and spreading. 

Those trees which have the hardest and most durable 
wood are, however, not always those which live longest. 
The beech, for example, the cypress, the juniper, the 
walnut, and the pear-tree, do not live so long as the 
lime-tree, though its wood be softer. 

Those which produce juicy, tender, and delicate fruit, 
are, in general, shorter-lived than those which are barren 
or which bear fruit entirely useless. And among the 
former, those which bear nuts or acorns become older 
than those which produce berries and fruit with stones. 

Even these short-lived trees, the apple, the pear, the 
apricot, the peach, the cherry, &c., can, under very 
favorable circumstances, prolong their life to sixty 
years; especially when they are freed from the moss 
which grows upon them. 

We may establish it as a general rule, that those trees 
which are long in producing leaves and fruit, and which 
also do not soon lose them, become older than those in 
which both these changes take place speedily. Those, 
likewise, which are cultivated, have, in general, a shorter 
existence than those which grow wild ; and those which 
produce sour, harsh fruit, live longer than those which 
produce sweet. 

It is highly worthy of remark, that when the earth 
is dug up every year around the roots of a tree, it be- 
comes more vigorous and fruitful; but the duration of 
its life is shortened. On the other hand, if this be done 
only every five or ten years, it will live the longer. In 
like manner, frequent watering and manuring promotes 
fruitfulness, but it injures the duration of life. 

One, also, by frequently lopping off the branches and 



LIFE IN THE VEGETABLE KINGDOM. 57 

buds, may contribute very much to the duration of the 
life of a shrub; so that small, short-lived plants, such 
as lavender, hyssop, and the like, if annually pruned, 
may prolong their lives to the age of forty years. 

It is also to be remarked, that when one turns up the 
earth, which has remained long untouched and un- 
changed, around the roots of old trees, and makes it 
softer and looser, they will produce fresher and more 
vigorous leaves, and become, as it were, again young. 

When we consider with attention these observations, 
derived from experience, it is perfectly evident how 
much they confirm the above established principles of 
life and vital duration, and that they coincide perfectly 
with these ideas. 

Our first grand principle was, the greater the quantity 
of vital power, and the solidity of the organs, the longer 
will be the duration of life; and we now find in Nature 
that the greatest, the most perfect, and the best formed 
productions, in which also we must allow the greatest 
abundance of the vital power, and those which have the 
strongest and most durable organs, are precisely those 
which enjoy the longest life; as, for example, the oak 
and the cedar. 

The bulk of the corporeal mass evidently appears 
here to contribute to the duration of life, and on the 
three following grounds : 

I. Bulk shows a greater provision of the vital or 
plastic power. 

II. Bulk gives more vital capacity, more surface, 
more external access. 

III. The greater mass a body has, the more time is 
required before it can be wasted by its external and 
internal consumptive and destructive powers. 

We, however, find that a plant may have very strong 



58 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

and durable organs, and yet not live so long as one the 
organs of which are of less solidity. Of this we have 
an instance in the lime tree, which lives much longer 
than the beech or cypress. 

This now leads to a law of the utmost importance for 
organized life and our future research; which is, that, 
in the organized world, a certain degree of solidity 
promotes the duration of life, and that too high a de- 
gree of tenacity shortens it. In general, however, and 
among unorganized beings, it is undoubtedly certain 
the more solid a body is the greater will be its dura- 
tion; but in organized beings, where the duration of 
existence consists in continual activity of the organs 
and circulation of the juices, this observation is limited, 
and too great a degree of solidity in the organs, and 
toughness in the juices, makes them sooner immovable 
and unfit for discharging their functions, produces ob- 
structions, and brings on premature old age, and even 
death. 

It is not, however, merely on the quantity of the 
power and the organs that the vital power depends. 
We have already seen that a great deal, in particular, 
depends on the speedier or slower consumption, and on 
perfect or more imperfect restoration. Is this, there- 
fore, confirmed in the vegetable kingdom ? 

It is, in the fullest manner; and we here find this 
general law : the more intensive life a plant has, the 
stronger and speedier is its internal consumption, the 
sooner it decaj^s, and the shorter is its duration ; on the 
other hand, the more capacity a plant has, either in- 
ternally or externally, to regenerate itself, the longer 
it will preserve its existence. 

I shall now proceed to treat, in the first place, on the 
law of consumption. Plants in general have a very 
w^eak intensive life, which consists only in the func- 



p 



LIFE IN THE VEGETABLE KINGDOM. 69 

tions of growth, propagation, and receiving nourish- 
ment. They are subject to no arbitrary changing of 
place, no regular circulation, or muscular or nervous 
motion. The function of generation is beyond dispute 
the highest degree of their internal consumption, the 
utmost stretch of their intensive life. But how speedi- 
ly is it followed by decomposition and annihilation ! 
Nature appears here to make, as it were, the greatest 
exertion of her plastic power, and to show the ne plus 
ultra of the highest finishing and of bringing to per- 
fection. 

What tenderness and delicacy in the structure of the 
flower; what elegance and splendor of colors astonish 
us often in the most inconsiderable plant, to which we 
never could have ascribed such expansion. These are, 
as it were, the dress of ceremony, with which the plant 
celebrates its festival, but with which it also often ex- 
hausts its whole stock of vital power, either forever, 
or at least for a long time. 

All plants, without exception, lose, immediately after 
this catastrophe, the vigor of vegetation; and begin 
to be stationary, which is the commencement of their 
dissolution. In all annual plants complete death fol- 
lows; among the larger plants and trees, a temporal 
death at least, or a torpor of half a year, until, by 
the great strength of regenerating power, they are 
again put in a condition to shoot forth new leaves and 
flowers. 

On the same principles it may be explained, how all 
plants which acquire early the power of generation die 
also soonest; and it is an invariable law for the dura- 
tion of life in the vegetable kingdom, that the earlier 
and speedier a plant comes to flower, the shorter time 
will its life continue; but the later it flowers, its exist- 
ence will be of the longer duration. All those which 



60 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

flower immediately, the first year, die almost the same 
year; and those which flower for the first time the 
second year, die also the second. Those trees only, 
and woody shrubs, which first begin to generate in the 
sixth, ninth, or twelfth year, become old; and among 
these, those genera which arrive latest at the period of 
propagation become likewise the oldest. A highly im- 
portant observation, which, in part, fully confirms my 
ideas of consumption, and gives an instructive hint in 
regard to our future research. 

An answer may now be given to that important 
question. What influence has cultivation on the longer 
or shorter duration of the life of plants ? 

Culture and art, upon the whole, shorten life; and 
it may be admitted as a fundamental principle, that in 
general all wild plants, left to themselves, live longer 
than those which are cultivated. Every kind of cul- 
ture, however, does not shorten life ; for by careful at- 
tention, a plant which lives only one or two years in 
the open air, may be preserved much longer; and this 
is a very remarkable proof, that, even in the vegitable 
kingdom, it is possible to prolong life by a certain kind 
of treatment. But the question now is. In what con- 
sists the difl'erence of that culture which prolongs life, 
and that which shortens it ? This may be of impor- 
tance to us in the following research, and may be re- 
ferred to our first fundamental principle. The more 
cultivation strengthens intensive life and internal con- 
sumption, and at the same time makes the organiza- 
tion more delicate, the more is it prejudicial to the 
duration of life. This we observe to be the case in all 
hothouse plants, which, by warmth, manure, and other 
arts, are forced to a continual internal activity; so 
that they produce earlier, oftener, and more exquisite 
fruit than is natural for them. The case is the same, 



EXTENSION OP LIFE IN PLANTS. 61 

when, without forcing, hy external causes, a higher 
degree of perfection and delicacy than belonged to its 
nature is communicated to the internal organization of 
a plant, merely by certain operations and arts, such, 
for example, as ingrafting, propping, and the art used 
in regard to full flowers. This kind of culture shortens 
the duration also. 

Cultivation, on the other hand, may be the greatest 
means of prolonging life, if it do not strengthen the in- 
tensive life of a plant, or if it retard and moderate in 
any manner its internal consumption ; if it lessen the 
too great natural toughness or hardness of the organs 
or matter to such a degree that they continue longer 
pliable and proper for their functions ; and if it keep off 
destructive influences, and supply it with better means 
of regeneration. Thus, by the help of culture, a being 
may attain to a greater extent of life than it could 
have acquired according to its natural state and desti- 
nation. 

The duration of the life of plants may be prolonged, 
therefore, in the three following ways : 

1st. If, by often pruning the branches, we guard 
against too rapid consumption. By these means we 
deprive the plant of a part of those organs by which 
it would exhaust too speedily its vital power, and we 
concentrate the power as it were within it. 

2d. If we thereby check, or at least retard its flower- 
ing, and prevent a waste of the power of generation. 
This, we know, is the highest degree of vital consump- 
tion among plants ; and we thus doubly contribute to 
the prolongation of life — first, by preventing this power 
from being exhausted ; and, secondly, by obliging it to 
return back and to act as a me^ns of support or nour- 
ishment. 

3d. If we k:eep oflf the destructive influence of frost, 
6 



62 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

the want of nourishment, and an irregular atmosphere, 
and preserve it by art, in a uniform, moderate, mean 
condition. Though we hereby somewhat increase the 
intensive life, we nevertheless create a richer source of 
regeneration. 

Lastly, the fourth grand point on which the duration 
of every being, and also of a plant, depends, is its greater 
or less capacity to restore itself and to renew its parts. 

In this respect, the vegetable world may be divided 
into two grand classes. The first do not possess this 
capacity ; and these are the annual plants, or those 
w^hich live only a year, and which die immediately after 
they have performed the function of generation. 

The second class, on the other hand, which possess 
this great faculty of regenerating themselves annually; 
of producing new leaves, branches, and flowers, can at- 
tain to the astonishing age of a thousand years and up- 
wards. Such plants may be considered as organized 
masses of earth, from which an immense number of 
plants, but perfectly analogous to each mass, spring out 
every year. And in this regulation the wisdom of Nature 
appears great and divine. 

When we reflect that, as experience teaches us, a 
period of eight or ten years is required in order to pro- 
duce that degree of perfection in the organs and in the 
purification of the juices necessary in a tree before it 
can bring forth flowers and fruit, if it were subjected to 
the same laws of decay as other vegetable productions, 
and if a tree died immediately after it had generated, 
how ill-rewarded would the culture of it be; and how 
little proportion would the expense of preparation and 
time bear to the result ! In such a case, fruit indeed 
would be uncommon. 

To guard against this, Nature has wisely established, 
that the first plant acquires gradually such a consist- 



EXTENSION OP LIFE IN PLANTS. 63 

ence and solidity that at last the place of the earth is' 
supplied by the trunk, from which an abundance of new 
plants spring out every year under the form of buds and 
buttons. 

By this a double advantage is obtained. First, be- 
cause these plants spring from a mass of earth already 
organized, they immediately receive juices assimilated 
and prepared, and can therefore employ them in the 
production of flowers and fruit, which with sap derived 
immediately from the earth would be impossible. 

Secondly, these delicate plants, which in reality we 
may consider as so many annuals, die again after the 
process of fructification is completed, and yet the vege- 
table itself, or the stem, continues perennial. Nature, 
therefore, remains here true to her fundamental law, 
that the function of generation exhausts the vital power 
of single individuals, and yet the whole is perennial. 

In a word, the result of all these observations is, 
that the great age of a plant depends on the following 
points : 

I. It must grow slowly. 

II. It must propagate itself slowly, and late. 

III. It must have a certain degree of solidity and 
duration in its organs, a sufficiency of wood, and the 
sap must not be too watery. 

lY. It must be large, and have considerable extension. 
Y. It must rise into the atmosphere. 

By the contrary of all these the duration of life is 
shortened. 



64 ART or PROLONGING LIFE. 



CHAPTEE lY. 

Duration of Life in the Animal World. Observations on Plant- 
animals. Worms. Insects. Metamorphosis an important Means 
of Prolonging Life. Amphibia. Fish. Birds. Animals which 
Suckle. Result. Influence of Maturity and Growth on the 
Duration of Life. Perfection or Imperfection of Organization. 
Rapid or Slow Vital Consumption. Restoration. 

The animal kingdom, or second grand class of the 
more perfect part of the organized world, is immensely 
rich in being and in variety and diversity of duration. 
Between the elephant, which attains to the age of a 
hundred years, and the ephemeron, that small perish- 
able insect, which exists scarcely a day, and which in 
the twentieth hour of its life is an experienced veteran 
among its numerous posterity, there are innumerable 
intermediate degrees of vital capacity and duration ; 
but amidst this vast abundance I shall content myself 
with collecting only such data as ma}^ serve to illus- 
trate our principal question, On what does the duration 
of life depend ? 

To begin with worms, the most imperfect class of all, 
which approach very near to plants ; these, on account 
of their tender soft nature, can be injured and destroyed 
with remarkable ease; but, like plants, they have the 
best support in their extraordinary power of reproduc- 
tion, by which they can renew whole parts. Nay, 
when divided into two or three pieces they can still 
live, and it is consequently difficult to determine their 
duration. 

In this class there are some animals which almost 



DURATION OP LIFE IN ANIMALS. 65 

appear to be indestructible, and with which Fontana 
and Gotze made so many important experiments. The 
former caused wheel-insects and hair-worms to be dried 
in the hot scorching sun, and to be parched in an oven; 
and at the end of half a year he was able to revive these 
dried animals by pouring over them a little lukewarm 
water. 

These experiments confirm our position that the more 
imperfect the organization, the stronger is the life. 
The case here is the same as in the seeds of plants; and 
one may say that these first points of the animal crea- 
tion are, in a certain measure, only the first shoots or 
seeds for the more perfect animal world. 

Among those insects which have more of the animal, 
and a more finished organization, the power of repro- 
duction cannot perform such wonders. But nature here 
has fallen upon another wise establishment, which evi- 
dently prolongs their existence; I mean that of meta- 
morphosis or transformation. The insect exists, perhaps 
two, three, or four years, as a larva or worm ; it then 
becomes a pupa or nymph, and it exists again in that 
deathlike state a considerable time, at the end of which 
it appears a completely finished being. It now first has 
eyes, a winged, often an elegant body; and what stamps 
it principally with the mark of perfection, it is now first 
rendered fit for generation. This state, which may be 
called the time of its bloom, is, however, the shortest; 
it soon dies; for it has attained to the end of its desti- 
nation. 

I cannot here omit to remark how much these phe- 
nomena coincide with the principles I laid down as the 
grounds on which the duration of life depends. In its 
first state as a worm, how imperfect its existence, and 
how little its motion ! It is impossible for it to generate, 
and its whole faculties seem to consist in those of eat- 



66 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

ing and digesting ; for some caterpillars have so mon- 
strous an appetite, that, in the course of twenty-four 
hours, they devour more than three times the weight 
of their bodies. Their self-consumption, then, must be 
exceedingly small, and their restoration prodigious. It 
need excite no surprise therefore, that, in this condi- 
tion, notwithstanding their diminutive size and imper- 
fection, they can live so long. The case is the same in 
regard to their intermediate state as a chrysalis, when 
the animal lives without nourishment, and is consumed 
neither externally nor internally. But in the last period 
of its existence, of its completely formed state as a 
winged ethereal being, its whole life seems to consist in 
continual motion and removal from one place to another; 
yet, though its self-consumption is incessant, we cannot 
think of nourishment or restoration, for many butter- 
flies in this condition have no mouth. With such a re- 
finement of organization, such a disproportion between 
what is added and what is taken away, no duration is 
possible; and it is confirmed by experience that the ani- 
mal soon dies. Here, therefore, the same being exhibits 
to us in a very evident manner a picture of the most 
perfect as well as most imperfect life, and of the longer 
or shorter duration connected with them. 

Amphibia, those cold transition beings, can prolong 
their existence to an extraordinary length ; an advan- 
tage for which they are principally indebted to the te- 
nacity of their life, that is to the very intimate and dif- 
ficult to be dissolved connection of the vital power with 
the material j^art, and the weakness of their intensive 
life. 

Of the tenacity of life we have instances truly as- 
tonishing. Tortoises have been seen to live a consid- 
erable time without the head ; and frogs, when their 
hearts were torn out, have still continued to leap about. 



DURATION OF LIFE IN ANIMALS. #V 

A tortoise has existed six whole weeks without any 
food; and this sufficiently shows how small its inten- 
sive life is, and how little need it has of restoration. 
Nay, it is proved that toads have been found alive in- 
closed in stones and blocks of marble.* Whether they 
were shut up there in the egg, or as perfect beings, 
both cases are equally astonishing ; for what a number 
of years must have been necessary for the marble to 
generate, and before it could acquire its solidity ! 

This shows how much influence the power of regen- 
eration has in prolonging life. A great many dangers 
and causes of death are thereby rendered harmless; 
and whole parts which have been lost are again re- 
newed. To this belongs that phenomenon of the skin 
which we find among most animals of this class. 
Snakes, frogs, lizards, &c., cast their skin every year; 
and it appears that this method of becoming again 
young, contributes very much to their support and du- 
ration. Something of the like kind seems to prevail 
throughout the whole animal world : birds change their 
feathers as well as their bills, which is called moulting; 
insects transform themselves, and most quadrupeds 
change their hair and their claws. 

The tortoise and crocodile attain to the highest age, 

* In the year 1733, a toad was found in Sweden, seven ells deep, 
in a quarry, in the middle of a block of the hardest stone, to 
which people were obliged to force their way, with much labor, 
by means of chisels and the hammer. It was still alive, but ex- 
ceedingly weak. Its skin was shrivelled, and covered here and 
there with a stony crust. See Transactions of the Swedish Acad- 
emy, vol. iii, p. 285. It is most probable that the toad, when very 
young, had got into a small cleft of the stone, where it nourished 
itself with moisture and the insects which crept into it ; that 
the cleft was at length closed up by sparry matter, and that the 
animal, by the time it grew up, was thus completely incrusted. 



68 ART OP PROLONGING LIFE. 

as far as we have yet been able to learn from obser- 
vation. 

The tortoise, an indolent, slow in all its motions, and 
phlegmatic animal, and which is so long in growing 
that in twenty years one can scarcely observe an in- 
crease of a few inches, lives to the age of a hundred 
years and more. 

The crocodile, a large, strong, vigorous animal, in- 
closed in a hard coat of mail, incredibly voracious, and 
endowed with extraordinary powers of digestion, lives 
also very long; and, according to the affirmation of 
several travellers, is the only animal which grows as 
long as it exists. 

It is astonishing what instances of great age may be 
found among fishes, the cold-blooded inhabitants of the 
waters. We know from the ancient Roman history, 
that in the imperial fish-ponds there were several lam- 
preys (murcence) which had attained to their sixtieth 
year; and which had, at length, become so well ac- 
quainted and familiar with man that Crassus, orator, 
unam ex illis defleverit."^ 

The pike, a dry, exceedingly voracious animal, and 
carp also, according to undeniable testimony, prolong 
their life to a hundred and fifty years. The salmon 
grows rapidly, and dies soon. On the other hand, the 
perch, the growth of which is slower, preserves its ex- 
istence longer. 

It appears here worthy of being remarked, that nat- 
ural death occurs more rarely among fishes than in 
any other part of the animal kingdom. The law of the 
transition of one into another, according to the right of 
the strongest, prevails here far more generally. One 

* That Crassus the orator shed tears for one of them when it 
died. 



DtRATION OP LIFE IN BIRDS. 69 

devours another, the stronger the weaker; and one 
may assert that death exists less in the water, as the 
dying pass immediately into the substance of another 
living being, and consequently the intermediate state 
of death is less common than on land. Putrefaction 
takes place in the stomach of the stronger. This regu- 
lation is a proof of exalted and divine wisdom. If the 
innumerable millions of the inhabitants of the waters 
which die daily, remained only one day un-entombed, 
or, what is the same thing, not devoured, they would 
speedily diffuse abroad the most dreadful pestilential 
evaporation. In water, where vegetation, that great 
means of correcting animal putrefaction, exists in less 
extent, every cause of corruption must be guarded 
against j and on this account continual life must prevail. 

Among birds, also, there are several species which 
live a long time ; and to this, without doubt, the follow- 
ing circumstances contribute : 

Ist. Birds are remarkably well clothed ; for no cover- 
ing can be more perfect or better calculated to preserve 
warmth than feathers. 

2d. They have, every year, a kind of reproduction, 
or renovation, which is called moulting. During that 
period, the bird appears to be somewhat sick; casts, at 
length, its old feathers, and acquires new ones. Many 
cast their bills also ; an important part of renovation, 
as they are thereby put in a condition to feed them- 
selves much better. 

3d. Birds enjoy the purest air, and in the greatest 
quantity. 

4th. They are exposed to much motion ; but their mo- 
tion is the most healthful of all, as it consists of both 
active and passive ; that is to say, they are suspended, 
and exert themselves only in moving forwards. 

The golden eagle, a large strong animal with solid 



70 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

vessels, attains to a very great age. There have been 
instances of many living in menageries above a hun- 
dred years.. 

The case is the same with the vulture and falcon, 
both carnivorous animals. A gentleman at London, a 
few years ago, received from the Cape of Good Hope 
one that had been caught with a golden collar, on which 
was inscribed in English, " His Majesty K. James of 
England, An. 1610." It had therefore been at liberty 
182 years from the time of its escape. How old was it 
when it escaped ? It was of the largest species of these 
birds, and possessed still no little strength and spirit; 
but it was remarked that his eyes were blind and dim, 
and that the feathers of its neck had become white. 

The crow, a carnivorous bird with hard black flesh, 
can extend its life also to a hundred years ; as can like- 
wise the swan, an animal exceedingly well feathered, 
which feeds upon fish, and is fond of running water. 

The parrot, in this respect, distinguishes itself in a 
particular manner. One has had instances of its living 
sixty years a prisoner with man, and how old may it 
not have been when it was caught ? It is an animal 
which eats and digests almost all kinds of food, which 
changes its bill, and which has hard, dark-colored flesh. 

The peacock lives to the twentieth year. On the 
other hand, the cock, a hot, quarrelsome animal, does 
not exist nearly so long. Of a still shorter life is the 
sparrow. Small birds also live in general shorter. The 
blackbird and goldfinch live, at most, only to the twen- 
tieth year. 

If we now turn our view towards the most perfect 
animals, the mammalia^ those which approach nearest 
to man, we shall find amongst these also a very strik- 
ing diff'erence of age. 

That which attains to the greatest is perhaps the 



DURATION OF LIFE IN QUADRUPEDS. 71 

elephant, which, by its size, slow growth (for it grows 
to the thirtieth year), exceedingly hard skin and teeth, 
has the justest claim to longevity. 

The age of the lion cannot be accurately determined; 
but we have reason to think that it is of considerable 
extent; because some have been found without any 
teeth. 

The bear, though a great sleeper, and remarkably 
phlegmatic when awake, has, however, no great dura- 
tion of existence. A poor comfort for those who im- 
agine that they have found in indolence the secret for 
prolonging life. 

The camel, on the other hand, a meagre, dry, active, 
exceedingly hardy animal, becomes old. It generally 
attains to the age of fifty, and sometimes of a hundred 
years. 

The horse does not live more than about forty years. 
He is a large, strong animal, but not well covered with 
hair; he is therefore of greater sensibility. He may, 
however, ascribe his short life, in some measure, to the 
severity of man ; for we do not yet know by experience 
how long he can live in a state of nature. The life of 
the ass has about the same duration. The mule, a pro- 
duction of both, is stronger lived, and becomes older. 

What has been said respecting the great age of the 
stag is a fable. It lives thirty years, and perhaps a 
little over. 

The bull, large and strong as he is, lives only a short 
period — about fifteen years, or at most twenty. Most 
of the smaller animals, such as sheep, goats, the fox, 
the hare, &c., live no more than seven or ten years ; ex- 
cept dogs and swine, which can reach the age of fifteen 
or twenty. 

From this variety of observations the following re- 
sult may be drawn : 



72 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

The animal world have far more external and inter- 
nal movement, a more perfect and a more compounded 
intensive life, and, without doubt, more self-consumption 
than the vegetable. Besides, the organs of this king- 
dom are much tenderer, more complex, and more highly- 
finished. Animals, therefore, must have a shorter life 
than plants. But for this reason they possess a greater 
abundance of the vital power; have more points of con- 
tact with the whole of Nature that surrounds them, and 
consequently more accession and restoration from with- 
out. It must nevertheless be difficult, in this class, to 
attain to a remarkably great age ; but a short life, also, 
will occur very rarely. And this is what we find from 
observation ; a mean age of between five and forty years 
is the most common. 

TheTsooner an animal is formed, the more rapidly it 
arrives at perfection ; but the sooner it will decline and 
lose its existence. This seems to be one of the most 
general laws of Nature, and is confirmed throughout 
all classes. Only one must not confound expansion with 
growth, and reckon by the latter; for there are animals 
which grow as long as they live, and to which growth 
forms part of their nourishment; but this law must be 
referred, in j^articular, to the two following periods : 

1. To the time of the first exjDansion in the egg, either 
in or out of the body. 

2. To the period of maturity, which one may consider 
as the utmost boundary of physical conformation, and 
as a proof that the being has now attained the highest 
degree of finishing which it was physically capable of 
receiving. 

The rule, therefore, must be thus expressed : the less 
time an animal requires for its formation in the mother's 
womb or the egg, the sooner it will perish. The ele- 
phant, which goes with young till the third year, lives 



MATURITY OF ANIMALS. 7S 

also longest; but the hind, the cow, the dog, which go 
with young only from two to nine months, have a much 
shorter existence. Quod citofit, citb perit* 

Another law of great importance must also not be 
omitted; the sooner a being attains maturity, the sooner 
it propagates; but the shorter will be the time of its du- 
ration. This law, which we find so perfectly confirmed 
in the vegetable kingdom, prevails likewise, without ex- 
ception, in the animal. The greatest instance of it is 
afforded by insects. Their first period towards matu- 
rity, that is, their state as larvae, may continue very 
long, even several years; but as soon as they have un- 
dergone their grand transformation, that is, have at- 
tained maturity, their existence is completely ended. 
And among quadrupeds, it is certain that we may de- 
termine the life of an animal with considerable pre- 
cision, if we consider the epoch of maturity as the fifth 
part of the whole duration of its existence. 

The horse, ass, and bull, are at maturity in the third 
or fourth year, and live from fifteen years to twenty. 
Sheep come to maturity the second year, and live from 
eight to ten years. 

All horned animals, in general, live shorter than those 
which have not horns. 

Animals with dark-colored black flesh are, on the 
whole, longer-lived than those which have white flesh. 

And all quiet, timid animals, have a shorter existence 
than those of a contrary temperament. 

A certain covering of the body seems, in a particular 
manner, to have a great influence on the duration of 
life. Thus birds, which undoubtedly have the best and 
most durable covering, live exceedingly long; as do also 

* That which is quickly formed, quickly perishes. 
7 



74 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

the elephant, the rhinoceros, and the crocodile, which 
have the strongest skin. 

The nature of their motion has its influence also. 
Eunning seems to be the least favorable to duration of 
life ; while, on the other hand, swimming, flying, and, 
in short, that motion which is compounded of the active 
and the passive, seems to be the most favorable. 

This principle, therefore, is confirmed : the more in- 
tensive the life of a being is, and the less its internal con- 
sumption, that is to say, according to the common mode 
of expression, the more imperfect the life of a being is, 
it will be so much more the lasting. On the other hand 
the tenderer, finer, and more complex the organization, 
and the more perfect the life is, it will be of so much 
the less duration. 

This is shown, in the clearest manner, by the follow- 
ing observations: 

Ist. Zoophytes, or plant animals, whose whole organ- 
ization consists in a mouth, a stomach, and a straight 
gut, have a life exceedingly tenacious and difiicult to be 
destroyed. 

2d. All cold-blooded animals have, in general, a 
stronger and longer life than the warm-blooded; or, 
what amounts to the same thing, those which do not 
breathe have in this an advantage over those which 
breathe. And for what reason ? Breathing is the 
source of internal heat, and accelerates consumption. 
The business of respiration increases, upon the whole, 
the perfection of a being; but it increases also its con- 
sumption. An animal which breathes has, as it were, 
a double circulation, the common and the less through 
the lungs ; besides a double surface, which comes into 
continual contact with the atmosphere, the skin, and 
the superficies of the lungs ; lastly, a far stronger irri- 



• RESTORATIVE POWERS OP ANIMALS. 75 

lability, and consequently a much greater self-consump- 
tion both internally and externally. 

3d. Animals which inhabit the water live longer, in 
general, than those that reside in the air; and for this 
reason, because an animal in water evaporates very lit- 
tle, and because water does not consume nearly so much 
as the atmosphere. 

4th. Lastly, the strongest proof what an astonishing 
eifect lessening the external consumption has in the 
prolongation of life, is afforded by instances where that 
consumption has been rendered totally impossible. I 
mean those of toads inclosed in blocks of stone, where, 
by the external consumption being suspended, they 
preserved their life so much the longer. In that state 
nothing could evaporate, nothing could be dissolved; 
for the small quantity of air which was perhaps shut 
up with them, must have soon become so much saturated 
as to be incapable of receiving anything more. On 
this account the animal could exist so long without 
nourishment; for the need of nourishment arises from 
the loss which we sustain by evaporation and consump- 
tion. In such a state, where ever3^thing remains as it 
was, no reparation is required. By such means the vi- 
tal power and organization might be retained perhaps 
a hundred times longer than in the natural condition. 

The last principle on which the duration of life is 
founded, more perfect restoration, is fully confirmed 
likewise in this kingdom of Nature. 

The highest degree of restoration is the reproduction 
of entirely new organs. 

This power is found, in a wonderful degree, in the 
class of plant-animals, worms and amphibia, in short of 
those animals which have cold blood and no bones, or 
only such as are cartilaginous. And amongst all these 
animals there exists a most remarkable duration of life. 



76 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

Somewhat of the same nature is the casting of scales 
among fishes; of the skin among snakes, crocodiles, 
frogs, &c. ; of the feathers and bill among birds; and we 
always observe, that the more perfect this renovation 
is, the duration of life is proportionably longer. 

A highly important circumstance, however, in regard 
to restoration, is nourishment; and here a most essen- 
tial difference is manifested between the vegetable and 
animal world. All plants derive their nourishment 
from without; on the other hand, it is an invariable 
law of Nature among animals, that the nourishment 
must first pass into a cavity or bag, commonly called 
the stomach, destined for that purpose, before it can be 
received into the mass of the juices and become a part 
of the animal; and the imperfect polype, as well as the 
elephant, has these characteristics of the animal, a 
mouth and a stomach. 

It is this which forms the grand basis of the animal 
world; the characterizing difference between animals 
and plants, and upon which is originally grounded the 
superior advantage of individuality; of internal, more 
perfect, and more expanded life. Among animals, the 
substance which is received may obtain a far higher 
degree of preparation than among plants; the roots (the 
lacteal vessels) are, as it were, within; and receive the 
nourishing juices, already assimilated and purified, 
through the intestines. Animals, therefore, are subject 
to more secretions and excretions than plants ; and, for 
the same reason, the course of the nourishing juices and 
of all movements proceeds, among animals, from the 
internal to the external part, and among plants from 
the external to the internal. For this reason, also, the 
progress of death, in an animal, is from the external 
to the internal parts: in a plant the case is reversed; 
and one may often see trees without pith or internal 



DURATION OP HUMAN LIFE. 77 

substance, of which nothing exists but the bark, and 
which, however, still continue to live. For the above 
reason, likewise, animals can receive nourishment far 
more various, and restore themselves in a much more 
perfect manner, and, by these means, counterbalance 
the stronger self-consumption. 



CHAPTEK Y. 

Duration of the Life of Man. Apparently Incredible Age op the 
Patriarchs explained. Age of the World has no Influence on 
THE Duration op Human Life. Instances of Great Age among the 
Jews, Greeks, and Romans. Tables of the Census under Ves- 
pasian. Instances of Great Age among Kings, Emperors, and 
Popes. Frederick II. Among Hermits and Monks ; Philoso- 
phers AND Men of Letters ; Poets and Artists. Instances of the 

GREATEST AgE TO BE FOUND ONLY AMONG COUNTRY PEOPLE, HUNTERS, 

Gardeners, Soldiers, and Sailors. Few to be found among Phy- 
sicians. Shortest Life. Difference of Age according to the 
Climate. 

Let us now proceed to the grand source of our infor- 
mation, the history of man ; and let me there collect 
examples which may be of utility to the present re- 
search. 

I shall, therefore, lay before my readers the most re- 
markable instances of the greatest age among man- 
kind ; and we shall thence see in what climate, under 
what favorable circumstances, in what condition, and 
what state both of mind and body man has attained to 
the highest degree of longevity ; an agreeable review, 
which will make known to us a peculiar part of the 
history of the world, the history of the age of man, and 
the venerable gallery of the Nestors of ancient periods 

7* 



78 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

and^ nations. I shall occasionally add a few short 
characteristics, to give at the same time a hint how far 
character and temperament have an influence on the 
duration of life. 

It is commonly believed that, during the early pe- 
riods of the world, the lives of its inhabitants were 
more youthful and more perfect ; that these primitive 
men had a gigantic size, incredible strength, and a 
most astonishing duration of life. A variety of such 
notions were long prevalent among mankind; and to 
these we are indebted for the origin of many romantic 
tales. Some have not hesitated seriously to ascribe 
to our forefather Adam, the height of nine hundred 
yards, and the age of almost a thousand years. But 
the accurate and rational investigation of modern phi- 
losophy has converted the supposed bones of giants, 
found in diff'erent parts of the earth, into those of the 
elephant and rhinoceros; and acute theologists have 
shown that the chronology of the early ages was not 
the same as that used at present. Some, particularly 
Hensler, have proved, with the highest probability, 
that the year till the time of Abraham consisted only 
of three months; that it was afterwards extended to 
eight; and that it was not till the time of Joseph that 
it was made to consist of twelve. These assertions 
are, in a certain degree, confirmed by some of the East- 
ern nations, who still reckon only three months to the 
year; and besides, it would be altogether inexplicable 
why the life of man should have been shortened one 
half immediately after the flood. It would be equally 
inexplicable why the patriarchs did not marry till their 
sixtieth, seventieth, and even hundredth year; but this 
difficulty vanishes when we reckon these ages accord- 
ing to the before-mentioned standard, which will give 
the twentieth or thirtieth year ; and consequently, the 



DURATION OF HUMAN LIFE. 79 

same periods at which people marry at present. The 
whole, therefore, according to this explanation, as- 
sumes a different appearance. The sixteen hundred 
years before the flood will become four hundred and 
fourteen; and the nine hundred years (the highest re- 
corded) which Methuselah lived, will be reduced to two 
hundred — an age which is not impossible, and to which 
some men in modern times have nearly approached. 

In profane history, also, we have an account of many 
heroes and Arcadian kings of those periods who at- 
tained to the age of several hundred years; but these 
pretended instances of longevity can be explained in 
the same manner. 

With the period of Abraham, a period when history 
seems first to be established on more certain grounds, 
we find mention of duration of life which can be still 
attained, and which no longer appears extraordinary, 
especially when we consider the temperate manner in 
which the patriarchs lived; and that, as they were no- 
mades or a wandering people, they were much exposed 
to the free open air. 

From the history of the Jews we are enabled to col- 
lect the following facts. Abraham, a man of great and 
resolute mind, who was fortunate in all his undertak- 
ings, attained to the age of 175 years; his son Isaac, 
a chaste, peaceable man, and fond of tranquillity, to 
180 ; Jacob, who was also a lover of peace, but crafty 
and cunning, lived only 147; Ishmael, a warrior, 137; 
Sarah, the only female of the ancient world with whose 
duration of life we are acquainted, lived 127 years ; 
Joseph, a man of great prudence and political talents, 
much afflicted in his youth, but greatly honored in his 
latter days, lived to the age of 110. 

Moses, a man of extraordinary strength and spirit, 
rich in deeds but weak in words, carried his life, during 



80 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

which he was exposed to great care and fatigue, to the 
age of 120. But he even complains that the life of man 
endures only threescore and ten, or at most fourscore 
years; and we hence find that, in regard to age, the 
case was exactly the same three thousand years ago as 
it is at present. 

The warlike and ever-active Joshua lived to the age 
of 110. Eli, the high priest, a corpulent^ phlegmatic 
man, of a resigned disposition, lived to be only 90; but 
Elisha, severe towards others and towards himself, who 
despised convenience and riches, lived far above 100. 
In the latter period of the Jewish state, the prophet 
Simeon, a man full of hope and confidence in God, was 
distinguished by a life of 90 years. 

However replete with fables the history of the Egyp- 
tians may be, the age of their kings, recorded from the 
earliest periods, presents nothing remarkable. The 
longest reign is somewhat above fifty years. 

If we judge according to the account of Lucian, we 
must form a very high idea of the great age of the Se- 
res, or the ancient Chinese. They are expressly called 
Macrobii; and Lucian ascribes their longevity to their 
drinking water in great abundance. Is it not probable 
that they may, even then, have been acquainted with 
tea? 

Among the Greeks we find several instances of great 
age. The wise Solon, a man of much magnanimity, 
depth of thought and ardent patriotism, though not in- 
difi*erent in regard to the enjoyments of life, attained 
the age of 80. 

Epimenides of Crete is said to have lived 157 years. 
The poet Anacreon, so fond of mirth and jollity, lived to 
the age of 80; as did also Sophocles and Pindar. Gor- 
gias of Leontium, a great orator, a man who had travel- 
led much, and who spent a great deal of his time in the 



I 



EXAMPLES OP GREAT AGE. 81 

company of young people and in giving them instruc- 
tion, prolonged his life to the age of 108 years. Pro- 
tagoras of Abdera, an orator and traveller also, lived 
90; and Isocrates, a man of great temperance and 
modesty, lived 98. Democritus, the friend and searcher 
of Nature, a man also of a good temper and serene 
mind, lived 109 years; and the frugal, but slovenly 
Diogenes, 90. Zeno, the founder of the Stoical sect, 
and a master in the art of self-denial, attained nearly 
to the age of 100 years; and Plato, one of the most 
divine geniuses that ever existed, and a friend to rest 
and calm meditation, to that of 81. Pythagoras, who 
in his doctrine recommended good regimen, moderation 
of the passions, and the gymnastic exercises, became 
also very old. He used to divide the life of man into 
four equal parts. From the first to the twentieth year 
he called him a child, a man begun ; from the twentieth 
to the fortieth, a young man; from the fortieth to the 
sixtieth, a man ; from the sixtieth to the eightieth, an 
old or declining man; and after this period he reckoned 
him no more among the living, let him live to what- 
ever age he might. 

Among the Eomans the following instances deserve 
to be remarked : 

M. Valerius Corvinus, a man of great boldness and 
courage, extremely popular, and always fortunate, was 
above the age of 100. Orbilius, the celebrated Orbilius, 
first a soldier and then a pedagogue, but who always 
exercised military severity, attained, in this kind of 
life, to the age of above 100 years. How far Hermip- 
pus, the instructor of young maids, carried his life, we 
have seen before. Fabius, well known on account of 
his delay, showed, by an age of 90 years, that some- 
thing may be gained even from death by the same 
means. And Cato, that man with an iron body and 



82 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

iron mind, fond of a country life, and an enemy to phy- 
sicians, lived to the age of above 90. 

We have likewise remarkable instances of the lon- 
gevity of Eoman ladies. Terentia, the wife of Cicero, 
notwithstanding her many misfortunes, cares, and the 
gout, with which she was tormented, lived to the age 
of 103. And Livia, the wife of Augustus, an imperious, 
passionate, but fortunate woman, attained to that of 90. 

It is particularly worthy of remark, that several in- 
stances occur of Eoman actresses who became old ; an 
advantage which they have now unfortunately lost, and 
which seems to show that more vital consumption is 
connected with their occupation at present than for- 
merly. One Luceja, who came on the stage very young, 
performed a whole century, and even made her appear- 
ance publicly when in her 112th year. Galeria Copiola, 
an actress, and dancer also, was 90 years old when she 
first performed in the theatre ; and she was again brought 
forward as a wonder, in order to compliment Pompey. 
But this even was not the last time of her acting ; for 
she appeared once more, to show her respect for Au- 
gustus. 

A very valuable collection in regard to the duration 
of life in the time of the Emperor Vespasian, has been 
preserved to us by Pliny, from the records of the Cen- 
sus, a source perfectly sure and worthy of credit. It 
there appears, that in the year when that numbering 
of the people took place, the seventy-sixth of our era, 
there were living in that part of Italy which lies be- 
tween the Apennines and the Po only, 124 men who 
had attained the age of 100 years and upwards, — viz., 
fifty-four of 100, fifty-seven of 110 ; two of 125 ; four of 
130 ; four of from 135 to 137, and three of 140. Besides 
these, there were in Parma five men, three of whom 
were 120, and two 130; in Placentia, one of 130; at 



EXAMPLES OF GREAT AGE. 8S 

Faventia, a woman of 132 ; and in Yellejacium, a small 
town near Placentia, there lived ten persons, six of 
whom had attained to the age of 110, and four to that 
of 120. 

The bills of mortality also of the celebrated TJlpian 
agree in a most striking manner with ours, and in par- 
ticular with those of great cities. From these it ap- 
pears that one might with great propriety compare 
Kome to London, in regard to the probability of the 
duration of life. 

We have sufficient reason, therefore, to believe that 
the duration of life in the time of Moses, the Greeks, 
and the Eomans, was invariably the same as at pres- 
ent ; and that the age of the earth has no influence on 
the longevity of its inhabitants, that difference excepted 
which may be produced by the cultivation of its sur- 
face, and the difference of climate that may thence 
arise. 

Thus, for example, it is certain that in Italy, at pres- 
ent, neither so many nor so old people are to be found 
as in the time of Vespasian : but the reason is, that the 
climate then, on account of the woods and forests, was 
much colder,* and rendered the men more robust. It is 
also not improbable that the natural warmth of the 
earth itself may alter, and be accumulated sometimes 
in one region and diminished in another. 

The result of this research will therefore be, that 
man can still attain to the same age as ever. The dif- 
ference only is, that more attained to old age formerly 
than at present. 

Let us now take a view of the different states and 



* Of this we have several instances. Pliny, for example, speaks 
of winters when the wine was congealed in the cellars, and the 
Tiber frozen to the bottom. 



84 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

conditions of men, and, in this respect, turn our eyes 
in particular to modern times. 

To begin with emperors, kings, and in short, the great 
ones of the earth ; has Nature, which has conferred 
upon them, in the highest degree, all the advantages 
and enjoyments of this world, bestowed upon them also 
her best gift, a longer duration of life ? Unfortunately 
not. Neither ancient nor modern history informs us 
that this prerogative belongs exclusively to them. In 
ancient history we find only a few kings who attained 
to their eightieth year; and this is equally the case in 
the modern. In the whole catalogue of Eoman and 
German emperors, reckoning from Augustus to the 
present time, which includes altogether above two hun- 
dred, we find (the two first, Augustus and Tiberius ex- 
cepted) only four w^ho arrived at the age of 80 : viz., 
Gordian, Valerian, Anastasius, and Justinian. 

Augustus, a man of a peaceful, moderate disposition, 
though quick and lively in action, temperate in the en- 
joyments of the table, but more susceptible therefore 
of the pleasure arising from the arts and the sciences, 
attained to the age of seventy-six. He used none but 
the simplest food ; ate only when he had an appetite ; 
never drank above a pint of wine ; and considered mirth 
and good company as the best seasoning of his meals. 
He possessed a serene mind, was a great favorite of for- 
tune, and entertained such ideas respecting the term 
of life, that he said to his friends a little before his 
death, Plaudite, amici! "Applaud, my friends: the 
farce is ended!" a disposition of mind exceedingly fa- 
vorable to longevity. In the thirtieth year of his age 
he was attacked by so severe and dangerous a disease 
that his life was despaired of It was a sort of nervous 
disorder, which, by the warmth and hot baths recom- 
mended to him by his ordinary physicians, must have 



LONGEVITY OF SOVERIJIGNS. 86 

been rendered still worse. Antonius Musa resolved to 
treat bia case in a manner totally different. He obliged 
him to keep himself perfectly cool, and to use the cold 
bath : and by these means his health was again soon 
restored. This disorder, as well as the useful change 
which it effected in his mode of living, contributed very 
much, in all probability, to the prolongation of his life. 

From this account we learn also, that the method by 
the cold bath is improperly called the English method, 
since it appears to be of so great antiquity. 

The Emperor Tiberius lived two years longer. He 
was of a violent temper, but vir lentis maxillis,'^ as Au- 
gustus called him ; a friend to voluptuousness, though 
still attached to regimen, and, even amidst enjoyment, 
not inattentive to his health ; so that he used to say he 
considered a man as a fool, who, after the thirtieth year 
of his age, consulted physicians respecting diet ; because 
every one, with the least attention, must before that 
period have discovered what was useful and what was 
prejudicial to him. 

Aurengzeb, that celebrated conqueror, attained to the 
age of 100 ; but he is not to be considered so much a 
king as a nomade or wanderer. 

Great age is equally uncommon in the royal and 
princely families of modern times. We must, however, 
except the kings of France, of the house of Bourbon, 
two of whom, who succeeded each other, attained the 
age of 70. 

Frederick II, that great prince, one of the most im- 
portant instances in modern times, must not be here 
omitted. He was great in everything, even in what 

* Literally: " A man of slow jaws," which may mean that he 
masticated slowly, as well as that he was moderate in the quantity 
of his food. — Editor. 

8 



86 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

related to his medicine. He not only attained to an 
age very rare among kings — that of 76 — but wh^t is still 
of greater weight, attained to it amidst a life more ex- 
posed to care, labor, and fatigue, than that j^erhaps of 
any other man who ever existed, as he spent twenty 
years of it in active war, during w^hich he submitted to 
all the toils of a common soldier; but with this differ- 
ence, that, as commander-in-chief, he thought for all, 
and frequently passed the night, while others were en- 
joying repose, in the deepest meditation, and in forming 
new plans for his future operations. 

The ecclesiastical princes, in this respect, have not 
been more fortunate. Of three hundred popes, who may 
be reckoned up, no more than fiveattained to or exceeded 
the age of eight}^, though they possessed the advantage 
of obtaining the pontifical chair at a late period, and 
had therefore a greater probability of enjoying lon- 
gevity. 

An extraordinary number of instances, however, may 
be found among the hermits and monks, who, with the 
strictest regimen, self-denial, and abstraction, while 
they divested themselves of all human passions, and 
avoided such intercourse as might tend to excite them, 
led a life of contemplation, but united with bodily ex- 
ercise and the enjoyment of free air. Thus the apostle 
John attained to the age of 93 ; Paul the hermit, by means 
of an almost incredibly severe regimen in a grotto, to 
that of 113; and St. Anthony to that of 105. Athana- 
sius and Jerome also exceeded the age of 80.* In 
modern times, since mental abstraction, self-denial, and 
temperance have undergone some variations, instances 
of this kind are become more uncommon. 

* St. David lived to the age of 146 ; Theodore, Archbishop of 
Canterbury, to that of 88 ; and Wilfred, Bishop of Hexham, 
through a turbulent career, to 76. — Editor. 



LONGEVITY OF PHILOSOPHERS. 87 

Deep-thinking philosophers have at all times been dis- 
tinguished by their great age, especially when their 
philosophy was occupied in the study of Nature, and 
afforded them the divine pleasure of discovering new 
and important truths : the purest enjoyment, a benefi- 
cial exaltation of ourselves, and a kind of restoration 
which may be ranked among the principal means of 
prolonging the life of a perfect being. The most an- 
cient instances are to be found among the Stoics and 
the Pythagoreans, according to whose ideas subduing 
the passions and sensibilit}^, with the observation of 
strict regimen, were the most essential duties of a phi- 
losopher. We have already considered the example 
of a Plato and an Isocrates. Appollonius of Tyana, 
an accomplished man, endowed with extraordinary 
powers both of body and mind, who, by the Christians, 
was considered as a magician, and by the Greeks and 
Eomans as a messenger of the gods, in his regimen a 
follower of Pythagoras, and a friend to travelling, was 
above 100 years of age. Xenophilus, a Pythagorean 
also, lived 106 years. The philosopher Demonax, a man 
of the most severe manners and uncommon stoical apa- 
thy, lived likewise 100. Being asked, a little before his 
death, how he wished to be buried, he replied, " Give 
yourself no concern on that point ; the smell will soon 
bury the carcass." " But," returned his friends, " do you 
wish then to become food to the dogs and the birds?" 
^'Why not," replied he; "during my whole life I have 
endeavored as much as I could to be serviceable to man, 
why should I not, after my death, be of some use also 
to animals?" 

Even in modern times philosophers seem to have ob- 
tained this pre-eminence, and the deepest thinkers ap- 
pear in that respect to have enjoyed, in a higher degree, 
the fruits of their mental tranquillity. Kepler and Bacon 



88 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

both attained to a great age ; and Newton, who found 
all his happiness and pleasure in the higher spheres, at- 
tained to the age of 84.* Euler, a man of incredible 
industry, whose works on the most abstruse subjects 
amount to above three hundred, approached near to the 
same age; and Kant, the first philosopher now alive, 
still shows that philosophy not only can preserve life, 
but that it is the most faithful companion of the great- 
est age, and an inexhaustible source of happiness to 
one's self and to others.f 

Academicians, in this respect, have been particularly 
distinguished. I need mention only the venerable Fon- 
tenelle, who wanted but one year of a hundred, and that 
Nestor, Formey, both perpetual secretaries, the former 
of the French, and the latter of the Berlin Academy. 

We find, also, many instances of long life among 
schoolmasters; so that one might almost believe that 
continual intercourse with youth may contribute some- 
thing towards our renovation and suj^port. 

But poets and artists, in short all those fortunate 
mortals whose principal occupation leads them to be 
conversant with the sports of fancy and self-created 
worlds, and whose whole life, in the properest sense, is 
an agreeable dream, have a particular claim to a place 
in the history of longevity. We have already seen to 
what a great age Anacreon, Sophocles, and Pindar at- 
tained. Young, Yoltaire, Bodmer, Haller, Metastasio, 
Gleim, Utz, and Oeser, all lived to be very old ;| and 

* Kepler only reached the age of 59 ; Bacon attained that of 78 ; 
and Euler, 77. — Editor. 

f Kant died in 1804, having lived to the age of 80. — Editor. 

X The following short list of the ages of distinguished men may 
be interesting to the reader in this place ; for a more complete cata- 
logue, arranged according to the classes of science and literature 



LONGEVITY OF GREAT MEN. 



89 



I here flatter myself with the hope, and I shall no doubt 
be joined in my wish by every one of my readers, 
that Wieland, the prince of the German poets, may af- 
ford the newest confirmation of this position.* 



upon which they shed their light, 
firmities of Genius." 

Tasso, 51 

Virgil 62 

Shakspeare, 52 

Molifere, 53 

Dante, ....... 56 

Pope, 66 

Ovid, 57 

Horace, 57 

Kacine, 59 

Demosthenes, 59 

Lavater, 60 

Galvani, 61 

Boccaccio, 62 

Fenelon, 63 

Aristotle, 63 

Cuvier, 64 

Milton, 66 

Rousseau, 66 

Erasmus, 69 

Cervantes, 69 

Beaumarchais, 69 

Dryden, 70 

Petrarch, 70 

Lesage, 70 

Linnaeus, 71 

Locke, 73 

La Fontaine, 74 

Handel, 75 

Reaumur, 75 

* Wieland died insane at the 
Editor. 



he is referred to Madden 's " In- 

Galileo, 78 

Swift, 78 

Roger Bacon, 78 

Corneille, 78 

Marmontel, 79 

Thucydides, 80 

Juvenal, 80 

Young, 80 

Plato, 81 

BufFon, 81 

Goethe, 82 

Claude, 82 

West, 82 

Franklin, 84 

Metastasio, 84 

Herschell, 84 

Anacreon, 85 

Newton, 85 

Voltaire, 85 

Halley, . 86 

Sophocles, 90 

Leeuwenhoeck, .... 91 

Hans Sloane, 93 

Whiston, 95 

Michael Angelo, .... 96 

Titian, 96 

Herodias, 100 

Fontenelle, 100 

Georgius, 107 

— Editor. 
age of 80, in January, 1813. — 

8* 



90 ART OP PROLONGING LIFE. 

The most extraordinary instances of longevity are to 
be found, however, only among those classes of man- 
kind who, amidst bodily labor, and in the open air, lead 
a simple life agreeable to nature, such as farmers, gar- 
deners, hunters, soldiers, and sailors. In these situa- 
tions man still attains to the age of 140, and even 150. 
I cannot here deny myself the pleasure of giving a more 
particular account of some of these instances; for, in 
cases of this kind, the most trifling circumstance is 
often interesting, and may be of importance. 

In the year 1670 died Henry Jenkins, of Yorkshire. 
He remembered the battle of Floddenfield in 1513, and 
at that time he was twelve years of age. It was proved 
from the registers of the Chancery and other Courts, 
that he had appeared, 140 years before his death, as an 
evidence, and had an oath administered to him. At the 
time of his death he was, therefore, 169 years old. His 
last occupation was fishing; and when above the age of 
100, he was able to swim across rapid rivers. 

Next to him, in point of age, is another Englishman, 
Thomas Parr, of Shropshire. He was a poor farmer's 
servant, and obliged to maintain himself by daily labor. 
AYhen above 120 years of age, he married a widow for his 
second wife, who lived with him twelve years, and who 
asserted that during that time he never betrayed any 
signs of infirmity or age. Till his 130th year he per- 
formed all his usual work, and was accustomed even to 
thresh. Some years before his death, his eyes and 
memory began to fail; but his hearing and senses con- 
tinued sound to the last. In his 152d year his fame had 
reached London; and as the King was desirous of see- 
ing so great a rarity, he was induced to undertake a 
journey thither. This, in all probability, shortened his 
existence, which he otherwise might have preserved 
some years longer ; for he was treated at Court in so 



INSTANCES OF LONGEVITY. 91 

royal a manner, and his mode of living was so totally 
changed, that he died soon after, at London, in 1635. 
He was 152 years and nine months old, and had lived 
under nine kings of England. What was most remark- 
able in regard to this man is, that when his body was 
opened by Dr. Harvey, his internal organs were found 
to be in the most perfect state, nor was the least symp- 
tom of decay to be discovered in them. His cartilages 
even were not ossified, as is the case in all old people. 
The smallest cause of death had not yet settled in his 
body ; and he died merely of a plethora, because he had 
been too well treated. 

This Parr is a proof that, in many families, a consti- 
tution so favorable to longevity may transmit a remark- 
ably good stamen vitce. His great-grandson died at 
Cork, a few years ago, at the age of 103. 

The following instance is almost of the same kind: 
A Dane, named Draakenberg, born in 1626, served as 
a seaman in the Eoyal Navy till the 91st year of his 
age, and spent fifteen years of his life as a slave in 
Turkey, and in the greatest misery. When he was 
111, and had settled to enjoy tranquillity, he resolved to 
marry, and united himself to a woman of threescore. 
He, however, outlived her a long time ; and in his 130th 
year, fell in love with a young country girl, who, as 
may well be supposed, rejected his proposal. He then 
tried his fortune with several others, but as he had no 
better success, he at length resolved to continue single, 
and in that condition lived sixteen years. He died in 
the year 1772, in the 146th year of his age. He was a 
man of rather violent temper, and exhibited frequent 
proofs of his strength during the last years of his life. 

In the year 1757, J. Effingham died in Cornwall, in 
the 144th year of his age. He was born of poor parents 
in the reign of James I, and had been brought up to 



92 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

labor from his infancy. He had served long as a soldier 
and corporal; and had been present at the battle of 
Hochstedt. He at length returned to the place of his 
nativity, and worked as a day-laborer till his death. 
It is to be remarked, that in his youth he never drank 
strong, heating liquors; that he always lived remark- 
ably temperately, and seldom ate flesh. Till his 100th 
year he scarcely knew what sickness was^ and eight 
days before his end, he had walked three miles. 

In the year 1792, died, in the Duchy of Holstein, an 
industrious day-laborer, named Stender, in the 103d 
year of his age. His food, for the most part, was noth- 
ing but oatmeal and buttermilk. He rarely ate flesh ; 
and what he used was always much salted. He scarcely 
ever had thirst, and therefore drank very seldom. He 
w^as fond of smoking tobacco. In his old age he first 
began to drink tea, and sometimes cofl'ee. He lost his 
teeth early. He was never sick ; and could not be out 
of humor; that is to say, it was physically impossible 
that his bile should ever overflow. He avoided with 
great care every cause of strife or contention. He had 
the greatest trust in Providence; and this was his con- 
solation and support in all his misfortunes and troubles. 
His chief dependence always was in the goodness of 
God. 

One of the most singular instances that, amidst the 
ficklest sports of fortune, continual danger, and the 
most destructive influences, the life of man may be pre- 
served to an incredible length, is the following : An old 
soldier, named Mittelstedt, died in Prussia, in the year 
1722, in the 112th year of his age. This man was born 
at Fissahn, in that country, in the month of June, 1681; 
and was lost at the gaming-table by his master, who in 
one evening staked his whole equipage and six more 



INSTANCES OF LONGEVITY. 98 

servants. He then entered into the army, and served 
as a soldier sixty-seven years. He was present in all 
the campaigns under Frederick I, Frederick William 
I, and Frederick II, and, in particular in those of the 
Seven Years' War; and had been engaged in seventeen 
general actions, in which he braved numberless dangers 
and received many wounds. In the Seven Years' War 
his horse was shot under him, and he was then taken 
prisoner by the Eussians. After supporting all these 
difficulties, he married; 'and having lost two wives suc- 
cessively, he married a third in 1790, when he was in 
the 110th year of his age. A little before his death he 
was still able to walk two miles, every month, in order 
to receive his small pension. 

The same year, died at Neus, in the Archbishopric 
of Cologne, H. Kauper, a veteran of 112. He was a 
man of a strong make; had been accustomed to walk a 
little every day ; could read till his death without spec- 
tacles, and retained the use of his senses to the last. 

Helen Gray died a few years ago, in the 105th year 
of her age. She was of small stature, exceedingly 
lively, peaceable, and good-tempered, and a few years 
before her death acquired new teeth. 

Thomas Garrick was alive last year (1795), in the 
county of Fife, in the 108th year of his age. He still 
possessed great vigor; and was celebrated as he always 
had been, on account of his extraordinary appetite. For 
twenty years he had never been confined to his bed by 
sickness. 

Not long ago there was still alive at Tacony, near 
Philadelphia, a shoemaker named E. Glen, in the 114th 
year of his age. He was by birth a Scotchman, had 
seen King William III, enjoyed the perfect use of his 
sight and memory, ate and drank with a keen appetite, 



94 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

had a good digestion, labored the whole week, and on 
Sunday walked to hear divine service in the church at 
Philadelphia. His third wife was still alive; she was 
thirty years of age, and lived happily with her husband. 

A certain baron, Baravicino de Capellis, died in 1770, 
at Meran, in Tyrol, at the age of 104. He had been 
married to four wives : the first he manned in his four- 
teenth, and the last in his eighty -fourth year. By his 
fourth wife he had seven children, and when he died 
she was pregnant with the eighth. The vigor of his 
body and mind did not forsake him till the last month 
of his life. He never used spectacles, and when at a 
great age would frequently walk a couple of miles. 
His usual food was eggs; he never tasted boiled flesh ; 
sometimes he ate a little roasted, but always in very 
small quantity ; and he drank abundance of tea with 
rosasolis* and sugar-candy. 

Anthony Senish, a farmer of the village of Puy, in 
Limoges, died in 1770, in the 111th year of his age. 
He labored till within fourteen daj^s of his death ; had 
still his teeth and his hair; and his sight had not failed 
him. His usual food was chestnuts and Turkish corn. 
He had never been bled, nor used any medicine. 

These are all the instances of great age, in modern 
times, with which I am acquainted. Persons of 100 
years I omit, for these are more common. A carpenter 
died a few years ago at Biirgel, near this place, in his 
104th year. He worked daily till his death; and his 
favorite employment, at last, was spinning yarn. One 
day as he was sitting at his wheel, his daughter ob- 
served it motionless; she immediately went up to him, 
and found him dead. 

* A plant having the character of being a " cordial."— Editor. 



INSTANCES OF LONGEVITY. 95. 

Physicians, who so abundantly dispense to others the 
means of health and life, ought to claim here a dis- 
guished place. But unfortunately this is not the case. 
It may be said of them, in general : Aliis inserviendo 
consumuntur ; aliis medendo moriuntur.^ 

At any rate, mortality is greater among practical 
physicians than perhaps among men of any other pro- 
fession. They have the least opportunity of observing 
those prudential rules and precautions, for preserving- 
health, which they lay down to others; and there are 
few employments in which the powers both of the 
body and mind are exposed to so much consumption 
as in this. Head and feet must be always exercised in 
common. Eut the greatest mortality prevails during 
the first ten years of their practice. A physician who 
has fortunately withstood that period, attains to a cer- 
tain strength of constitution, a kind of insensibility to 
fatigue and the causes of diseases ; by custom, noxious 
effluvia and the poison of infectious disorders become 
less prejudicial; and he acquires more indifference for 
the heart-melting scenes of woe, and the numberless 
miseries, the consequences of vice and moral evil, which 
his business condemns him to be a daily spectator of: 
and thus a physician who has luckily passed his time 
of probation, may become an old man. 

A striking instance of this is afforded by our prede- 
cessor, Hippocrates, who lived to the age of 109. His 
whole life was employed in the study of Nature, in 
travelling, and in visiting the sick; but he passed more 
of his time in small villages and in the country than in 
great cities. Galen, Crato, Forestus, Plater, Hoffman, 

* In serving others they are consumed ; in healing others they 
are destroyed. — Editor. 



96 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

Haller, Yan Swieten, and Boerhaave, all attained to a 
considerable age.* 

In regard to shortness of life, miners, and those em- 
ployed in melting-houses, are particularly distinguished, 
as well as those who live under the earth, or are con- 
tinually exposed to poisonous effluvia. In some mines, 
which contain much arsenic and cobalt, the workmen 
do not live to be older than thirty. 

I shall now take a short view of the difference of age, 
as arising from climate, or rather the nature of the soil. 

Sweden, Norway, Denmark, and England have, in 
modern times, without doubt, produced the oldest 
men.-)- Instances of some who attained to the age of 
130, 140, 150, have occurred in these countries. 

However favorable a northern climate may be to 
longevity, too great a degree of cold is, on the other 

* The following list embraces a few distinguished names of 
medical philosophers who have attained an advanced age : 



Boerhaave, 70 

Haller, 70 

Tissot, 70 

Gall, 71 

Darwin, 72 

Yan Swieten, 72 

Fallopius, 72 

Jenner, 75 

Heister, 75 

CuUen, 78 

Galen, 79 

Spallanzani, 79 



Harvey, 81 

Mead, 81 

Duhamel, 82 

Astruc, 83 

Hoffman, 83 

Pinel, 84 

Swedenborg, 85 

Morgagni, 89 

Heberden, 92 

Kuysch, 93 

Hippocrates, 109 

— Editor. 



i- In England, during the seven years 1838-44, there died at 
the age of 100 and upwards, 788 persons ; namely, 256 males, and 
532 females : giving an average of 112J annually. Of this num- 
ber a very small proportion, namely 72 (27 males, 45 females), 
were returned from London ; while 137 (43 males, 94 females) 
were inhabitants of Wales.— Editor. 



LONGEVITY OF NATIONS. 97 

hand, prejudicial to it. In Iceland, and the northern 
parts of Asia, such as Siberia, men attain at most to 
the age of sixty or seventy. 

Besides England and Scotland, Ireland is celebrated 
for the longevity of its inhabitants. In Dunsford, a 
small place in that country, there were living, at one 
time, eighty persons above the age of fourscore. And 
Lord Bacon says there was not a village in the whole 
island, as he believed, in which there was not one man 
upwards of eighty. 

In France, instances of longevity are not so abun- 
dant; though a man died there, in the year 1757, at the 
age of 121. 

The case is the same in Italy ; yet in the northern 
province of Lombardy there have been some instances 
of great age. 

In Spain, also, there have been some instances, though 
seldom, of men who lived to the age of 110. 

That healthy and beautiful country, Greece, is still 
as celebrated as it was formerly in regard to longevity. 
Tournefort found at Athens, an old consul who was 118 
years of age. The island of Naxos is particularly cele- 
brated on this account. 

Even in Egypt and India there are instances of long 
life, particularly among the Brahmins, Anchorites, and 
Hermits, who detest the indolence and intemperance 
of the other inhabitants of these countries. 

Ethiopia formerly was much celebrated for its lon- 
gevity ; but a contrary account is given of it by Bruce. 

Some districts of Hungary are particularly distin- 
guished by the great age of the people who reside in them. 

Germany contains abundance of old persons ; but i^i 
affords few instances of very long life. 

Even in Holland people may beconae old ; but this is not 
often the case, and few live there to the age of a hundred. 



98 ART OP PROLOxNGING LIFE. 



CHAPTEE YL 

Result op the above Observations. Age of the World has no influ- 
ence ON that op its Inhabitants. Influence of Climate and of the 
Atmosphere. Islands and Peninsulas. Countries in Europe most 

FAVORABLE TO LONGEVITY. ADVANTAGES OF TEMPERANCE. ThE TWO 
MOST DREADFUL EXTREMES OF MORTALITY IN MODERN TiMES. MODERA- 
TION IN All Things has great Effect in prolonging Life. State 
OF Marriage. Female Sex. Industry. Frugality. Civilization. 
Rural Life. Renovation possible. Extent of Human Life deter- 
mined. Absolute and Relative Duration of it. Tables respect- 
ing the Latter. 

That I may not tire the patience of ray readers by 
too great a multitude of examples, I shall here stop, 
and, in future, introduce them only occasionally, as the 
subject may require. 

Let me be permitted, therefore, to collect the general 
result of the observations above made, and to draw from 
them the following important conclusions : 

I. The age of the world hitherto has had no percepti- 
ble influence on that of man ; and people may still be- 
come as old as in the time of Abraham, and even of 
earlier epochs. There certainly have been periods when 
men lived sometimes longer and sometimes shorter; but 
this evidently did not arise from the world, but from 
man himself. When men were in a savage state, simple, 
laborious children of Nature, and much exposed to the 
open air, as shepherds, hunters, and farmers, great age 
w^as very common among them; but when they began 
gradually to despise the dictates of Nature, to study 
refinement, and to indulge in luxury, the duration of 
their life became shorter. The same people, however, 



CONDITIONS FAVORABLE TO LIFE. 99 

restored by a revolution to their former rude state, and 
to manners more agreeable to Nature, can again attain 
to their ancient longevity. These, consequently, are 
unsettled periods, which only pass away and return. 
Mankind, in general, do not sutler by them, and retain 
that duration of life which is appointed for them. 

II. Man, as we have above seen, can^ in almost all 
climates, in the frigid or torrid zone, attain to a great 
age. The only difference seems to be, that this is the 
case in some much more than in others; and that 
though man can attain to a great age, people in gen- 
eral do not attain to the greatest. 

III. Even in districts where mortality in general is 
very great, individuals may attain to a greater age 
than in places where general mortality is less. I shall, 
by way of example, mention the warm countries of the 
East. There mortality, upon the whole, is very small : 
hence their extraordinary population ; and infancy, in 
particular, suffers there much less on account of the 
continually uniform and pure temperature of the at- 
mosphere. Yet a much smaller proportion of old people 
are found in these countries than in the northern, where 
mortality in general is greater. 

lY. Places, the situation of which is high, have, in 
general, more and purer air than those which stand 
low; though here, also, there is a certain limitation, 
and the rule cannot be thus laid down : the higher the 
better. The greatest degree of height, the glaciers, is, 
on the contrary, prejudicial to health ; and Switzerland, 
without doubt the highest land in Europe, has pro- 
duced fewer instances of longevity than Scotland. For 
this there are two reasons : First, the atmosphere at a 
great height is too dry, ethereal, and pure, and con- 
sumes, therefore, speedier. Secondly, the temperature 
of it is too variable; heat and cold succeed each other 



100 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

too rapidly; and nothing is more unfavorable to dura- 
tion of life than very sudden changes. 

Y. In cold climates, men in general become older 
than in warm ; and for two reasons : First, because, in 
warm countries, vital consumption is greater; and sec- 
ondl}^, because in cold countries, the climate, being 
more temperate, checks vital consumption. This, how- 
ever, is the case only in a certain degree. By the 
highest cold, such as that of Greenland, Nova Zembla, 
&c., the duration of life is shortened. 

YI. Uniformit}^ in the state of the atmosphere, par- 
ticularly in regard to heat, cold, gravity, and lightness, 
contributes, in a very considerable degree, to the dura- 
tion of life. Countries, therefore, where sudden and 
great variations in the barometer and thermometer are 
usual, cannot be favorable to longevity. Such coun- 
tries may be healthy, and many men may become old 
in them ; but they will not attain to a great age, for 
all rapid variations are so many internal revolutions ; 
and these occasion an astonishing consumption, both of 
the powers and the organs. In this respect Germany 
is particularly distinguished ; for its situation renders 
it subject to a continual mixture of heat and cold, of 
northern and southern climate, where one often expe- 
riences, in the course of the same day, both frost and 
the utmost heat; and where the month of March may 
be extremely w^arm, and that of May accompanied with 
snow. This uncertainty of the climate of Germany is 
undoubtedly the principal cause that, notwithstanding 
the healthfulness of its situation in other points of 
view, and thougli in general people attain there to a 
considerable age, instances of very great age occur 
much more rarely than in neighboring countries lying 
almost under the same degree of latitude. 

YIL Too high a degree of dryness, as well as too 



INFLUENCE OP CLIMATE. 101 

great moisture, are unfavorable to duration of life. Air, 
therefore, which contains a mixture of fine moisture, is 
the best for attaining to a great age. The reasons are 
as follows : Moist air, being in part already saturated) 
has less attractive power over bodies; that is to say, 
consumes them less. Besides, in a moist atmosphere 
there is always more uniformity of temperature; and 
fewer rapid revolutions of heat and cold are possible. 
Lastly, an atmosphere somewhat moist keeps the or- 
gans longer pliable and youthful ; whereas that which 
is too dry brings on much sooner aridity of the vessels, 
and all the characteristics of old age. 

A most striking proof of this is afforded by islands ; 
for we find that these, as well as peninsulas, have at all 
times been, and still are, the cradles of old age. In 
islands mankind always become older than in continents 
lying under the same degree of latitude. Thus men 
live longer in the islands of the Archipelago than in the 
neighboring countries of Asia ; in Cyprus, than in Syria; 
in Formosa and Japan, than in China; and in England 
and Denmark, than in Germany. 

Salt water also is more favorable to longevity than 
fresh, and for that reason seafaring people can become 
so old. Stagnated fresh water, on the other hand, is 
hurtful, by its mephitic evaporation. 

yill. A great deal seems to depend likewise on the 
ground and soil, in a word, on the whole genius loci ; and 
in this respect a cold soil appears to be the least calcu- 
lated to promote longevity. 

IX. According to experience, England, Denmark, 
Sweden, and Norway, are the countries where men at- 
tain to the greatest age; and we find by accurate ob- 
servation, that all the before-mentioned properties are 
in these united. On the other hand, Abyssinia, some 



9* 



102 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

parts of the West Indies, and Surinam, are countries 
where the life of man is shortest. 

X. The more a man follows Nature, and is obedient 
to her laws, the longer he will live; the further he de- 
viates from these, the shorter will be his existence. 
This is one of the most general of laws. In the same 
districts, therefore, as long as the inhabitants lead a 
temperate life, as shepherds or hunters, they will attain 
to old age ; but as soon as they become civilized, and 
by these means sink into luxury, dissipation, and cor- 
ruption, their duration of life will be shortened. It is, 
therefore, not the rich and great, not those who take 
gold tinctures and wonder-working medicines, who be- 
come old ; but country laborers, farmers, mariners, and 
such men as perhaps never in their lives employed their 
thoughts on the means which must be used to promote 
longevity. It is among these people only that the most 
astonishing instances of it are to be observed. 

XI. The most dreadful degree of human mortality, 
occasioned by two inventions of modern times, is to be 
found among the slaves in the West Indies, and in hos- 
pitals for foundlings. Of the negro slaves, one in five 
or six dies annually; a proportion equal to that which 
takes place during the ravages of the most inveterate 
pestilence. And of 7000 children who are every year 
brought into the foundling hospital at Paris, 180 only 
are alive at the end of ten years ; so that 6820 perish, 
and no more than one in forty escapes from that 
sepulchre. Is it not highly worthy of remark, and a new 
proof of our former position, that mortality prevails in 
the greatest degree where men deviate farthest from 
Nature; where her most sacred laws are despised, and 
where her first and strongest bonds are torn asunder? 
Where man, in the most evident manner, sinks below 
the brute, there the child is dragged from its mother's 



INFLUENCE OF CLIMATE. 103 

breast, and consigned helpless to the care of hirelings; 
where one brother is separated from another, from his 
home, from his native soil, and transferred to a strange 
and unhealthy climate, where, without hope, without 
comfort, and without enjoyment, while his heart con- 
tinually sighs after those he left behind, he pines to 
death, oppressed with severity and labor. I am ac- 
quainted with no contagion, no plague, no state of man- 
kind, either in ancient or modern times, during which 
mortality prevailed to the degree which it does in or- 
phan-houses. To produce this evil required an excess 
of refinement reserved only for the most modern times. 
It required the aid of those wretched political calcula- 
tors who can assert that the state is the best mother, 
and that nothing more is necessary to increase popula- 
tion than to declare children to be its property, to place 
them under its protection, and to establish a public 
abyss, which may swallow them up. People now see, 
when it is too late, the horrid consequences of this un- 
natural maternity; this contempt of the first grand 
pillar of human society, marriage and parental duty. In 
so dreadful a manner does Nature avenge every trans- 
gression of her most sacred commands. 

XII. The result of all experience, and a principal 
ground of longevity, is omnia mediocriaad vitam prolon- 
gandam sunt utilia. Moderation in everything, the au- 
rea mediocritas, so much extolled by Horace, and which 
Hume calls the best thing on earth, is indeed of the ut- 
most efficacy in prolonging life. In a certain mediocrity 
of condition, climate, health, temperament, constitution, 
employment, spirits, diet, &c., lies the greatest secret 
for becoming old. By all extremes, either too much or 
too little, too high or too low, prolongation of life is 
impeded. 

XIII. The following circumstance also is worthy of 



104 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

remark. All those people who have become very old, 
were married more than once, and generally at a very 
late period of life. There is not one instance of a 
bachelor having attained to a great age. This obser- 
vation is as applicable to the female as to the male sex ; 
and hence it would appear that a certain abundance in 
the power of generation is favorable to longevity. It 
forms an addition to the vital power ; and this power 
of procreation seems to be in the most intimate propor- 
tion to that of regenerating and restoring one's self; 
but a certain regularity and moderation are requisite 
in the employment of it ] and marriage is the only means 
by which these can be preserved. 

The greatest example of this is a Frenchman, named 
De Longueville, who lived to the age of 110. He had 
been married to ten wives ; his last wife he married 
when in his ninety-ninth year, and she bore him a son 
when he was in bis hundred-and-first year. 

XIY. More women than men become old; but men 
only attain to the utmost extent of longevit}^ The 
equilibrium and pliability of the female body seem, for 
a certain time, to give it more durability, and to render 
it less susceptible of injury from destructive influences. 
But male strength is, without doubt, necessary to arrive 
at a very great age. More women, therefore, become 
old; but fewer very old. 

XV. In the first half of man's age, an active, even a 
fatiguing life, is conducive to longevity; but in the last 
half, a life that is peaceful and uniform. No instance 
can be found of an idler having attained to a remark- 
ably great age. 

.XVI. Eich and nourishing food, and an immoderate 
use of flesh, do not prolong life. Instances of the great- 
est age are to be found among men who from their 



RENOVATION IN OLD AGE. 



105 



youth lived principally on vegetables, and who perhaps 
never tasted flesh. 

XYII. A certain degree of cultivation is physically 
necessary for man, and promotes duration of life. The 
wild savage does not live so long as a man in a state of 
civilization. 

XYIII. To live in the country, and in small towns, 
is favorable to longevity ; to live in great towns is un- 
favorable. In great cities, from one in twenty-five to 
one in thirty die every year; in the country, from one 
in forty to one in fifty.* Mortality among children is 
in particular much increased by living in great cities, 
so that one half of those who are born die generally be- 
fore the third year; whereas, in the country, the half 



* The data upon which Hufeland founded these statements were 
of a very ineflSicient character, as compared with those which we 
possess at the present day, in the labors of the Registrar-General. 
Thus, instead of the mortality of large cities ranging from 1 in 25 
to 1 in 30, the highest known rate of mortality, namely, that of 
Liverpool, is 1 in 30 ; while in the metropolis of London it is only 
1 in 40. In the country, taking as examples, Kent, Surrey, and 
Northumberland, it ranges between 1 in 51, and 1 in 71^. In fur- 
ther illustration of this subject, I have selected the following ex- 
amples from the Registrar-General's Report on the mortality of 
England during the seven years 1838-44 : 





Males. 


Females. 


All England, 


. 1 in 44 . . 


1 in 47i^ 


Liverpool, 


. 1 " 28 . . 


. 1 " 32 


London, 


, 1 " 37 . . 


. 1 " 43 


Kent, 


. 1 " 48 . . 
. 1 " 54 . . 


1 " 54 


Surrey (rural), 


1 " 57 


Thanet and Eastry, .... 


. 1 " 54 . . 


1 *' 64 


Hendon and Barnet, . . . 


. 1 " 61 . . 


1 " 63 


Bideford and Hols worthy, 


. 1 " 61 . . 


. 1 " 65 


Godstone, Reigate, Dorking, . 


. 1 " 65 . . 


. 1 " 62 


Northumberland (3 districts), 


. 1 " 71 . . 


. 1 '' 72 
—Editor. 



106 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

are not carried off until the twentieth.* The smallest 
degree of human mortality is one in sixty annually ; 
and this proportion is found only here and there among 
country people. f 

XIX. Among some men a kind of renovation seems 
to be really possible. In several instances of great age 
it has been remarked that persons in their sixtieth or 
seventieth year, when others cease to live, acquired new 
teeth and new hair, and commenced as it were a new 
period of life, which continued twenty or thirty years 
longer : a kind of self-reproduction which is to be ob- 
served only among the more imperfect part of the crea- 
tion. J 

The most remarkable instance of this kind, with 
which I am acquainted, is an old magistrate named 
Bamberg, who lived at Eechingen in the Palatinate, and 
w^ho died in 1791, in the 120th year of his age. In 

* According to the Kegistrar-Gcneral's reports on the mortality 
of children, nearly one-half of all that are born alive die before 
the end of ih^ fifth year in Liverpool ; while the same number in 
London live to the age of 33 ; and in the county of Surrey to 50. 
In 1845 nearly one-half of all the children born in Birmingham 
died under yire years of age; the entire half in Manchester died 
in the same period ; and more than one-half in Ijiverpool. In 
London the proportion was between one-half and one-third; and 
in Wales less than one-third. — Editor. 

f In Northumberland, as is shown in the above table, it is 1 in 
71J. — Editor. 

X In my work on "Healthy Skin" I have mentioned several 
instances of very old persons in whom the natural color of the hair 
returned after they had been for years before graj'-. This was the 
case with John Weeks, who lived to the age of 114. Sir John 
ISinclair reports a similar occurrence in an old Scotchman, who 
lived to be 110; and Susan Edmonds, when in her 95th year, re- 
covered her black hair, but became again gray previously to her 
death at the age of 105. — Editor. 



r 



' 



NATURAL DURATION OF LIFE. 107 

1787, long after he had lost all his teeth, eight new ones 
grew up. At the end of six months they again dropped 
out, but their place was supplied by other new ones, 
both in the upper and lower jaw; and Nature, un- 
wearied, continued this labor four years, and even till 
within a month of his death. After he had employed 
his new teeth for some time with great convenience in 
chewing his food, they took their leave, and new ones 
immediately sprang up in some of the sockets. All 
these teeth he acquired and lost without any pain ; and 
the whole number of them amounted at least to fifty. 

By the observation already made, we are now enabled 
to come to a conclusion respecting the important ques- 
tion, What is the proper term or boundary of human 
life? One might believe that some degree of certainty 
could be acquired on this j)oint; but it is incredible 
what difference in opinion respecting it prevails among 
philosophers. Some allow man a very long, and others 
a very short duration of life. Some are of opinion that, 
to determine it, nothing is necessary but to examine to 
what extent it is carried among savages, because in 
that state of nature the utmost period of life must be 
discovered with the greatest precision. This, however, 
is false. It ought to be considered that this state of 
Nature is likewise, for the most part, a state of misery, 
where the want of society and civilization obliges men 
to waste themselves, and to undergo fatigue superior 
to their strength; and where, in consequence of their 
situation, they are exposed to more destructive influ- 
ences, and enjoy much fewer means of restoration. 
We must not take our examples from the class of 
savages; for these, in their properties, participate with 
the inferior animals: but from that class where man, by 
culture and civilization, has really become a rational 
being; for he has then in a physical sense first attained 



108 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

to his destination and pre-eminence, and, by the help 
of reason, has procured those means of restoration from 
without, and that happiness of situation, which it is 
possible for him to acquire. It is then only that we 
can consider him as a man, and collect examples from 
his condition. 

One might also believe that death by marasmus, that 
is to say, by old age, is the true boundary of human 
life. But this reasoning, in the present times, is at- 
tended with great deception ; for as Lichtenberg says, 
men have found out the art to ingraft old age upon 
themselves before the time ; and one may see very old 
people of thirty or forty, who have every symptom of 
extreme age, such as stiffness and aridity, weakness, 
gray hair, ossified cartilages, &c., which are observed 
very rarel}^ but among persons who have attained to 
the age of eighty or ninet}^ This, however, is an arti- 
ficial relative old age; and such a standard cannot be 
employed in a calculation which has for its object the 
duration of the life of man in "general. 

Some, therefore, have invented the most singular 
hypotheses to answer this question. The ancient Egyp- 
tians, for example, believed that the heart increased 
two drachms annually in weight for fifty years, and de- 
creased again fifty years in the same proportion. In 
the hundredth year, according to this supposition, no 
more heart remained, and, consequently, the hundredth 
year was the term or boundary of human life. To an- 
swer this question in a satisfactory manner, one must, 
in my opinion, make the following essential distinction : 

1. How long can man exist in general, considered as 
a race; and what is the absolute duration of his life? 
We know that each class of animals has a certain abso- 
lute duration of life, and the case must be the same with 
man. 



NATURAL DURATION <TP LIFE. 109 

2. How long can man live as an individual; and what 
is the relative duration of his life ? 

With regard to the first question, the research re- 
specting the absolute duration of human life, there is 
nothing to prevent us from giving it the utmost extent 
to which, according to experience, it is possible for it to 
attain. It is here sufficient to know what man's nature 
is capable of; and a man who has attained to the far- 
thest boundary of mortal existence, may be considered 
as a pattern of human nature in its utmost perfection, 
and as an instance of what is possible for it under favor- 
able circumstances. Now, experience incontestably 
tells us, that a man still may attain to the age of 150 or 
160 years; and what is of the greatest importance is, 
that the instance of Thomas Parr, whose body was 
opened in his 152d year, proves that, even at this age, 
the state of the internal organs may be so perfect and 
sound that one might certainly live some time longer; 
and that no doubt would have been the case with him, 
had not the manner in which he lived, by his not being 
accustomed to it, brought on a plethora which proved 
mortal. We may, therefore, with the greatest proba- 
bility, assert, that the organization and vital power of 
man are able to support a duration and activity of 200 
years. 

This assertion acquires some weight by our finding 
that it agrees with the proportion between the time of 
growth and the duration of life. One may lay it down 
as a rule, that an animal lives eight times as long as it 
grows. Now man in a natural state, where the period 
of maturity is not hastened by art, requires full twenty- 
five years to attain his complete growth and conforma- 
tion; and this proportion also will give him an absolute 
age of 200 years. 

It needs not be objected that gre^t age is the unnat- 
10 



no ART 09 PROLONGING LIFE. 

ural state, or an exception from the rule ; and that a 
shorter life is properly the natural condition. We shall 
see hereafter, that almost all those kinds of death which 
take place before the hundredth year are brought on 
artificially, — that is to say, by disease or accident; and 
it is certain that the far greater part of men die an un- 
natural death, and that not above one in a thousand at- 
tains to the age of a hundred years. 

But with regard to the relative duration of human 
life; that, indeed, is extremely variable, and as different 
as each individual. It is regulated according to the 
goodness or badness of the mass of which the person is 
formed; his manner of living: speedier or slower con- 
sumption; and a thousand internal and external cir- 
cumstances which may have an influence on the con- 
tinuance of his existence. We must not imagine that 
every man, at present, brings with him into the world 
a vital stock capable of lasting 150 or 200 years. It is 
unfortunately the fate of our generation, that the sins 
of the father often communicate to the embryo a far 
shorter stamen vitce.'^ Let us only reflect on the innu- 
merable host of diseases and accidents which openly 
and secretly pre}" upon our lives, and we shall clearly 
see that it is now far more diflicult than ever to attain 
to that term which human nature is really capable of 
reaching. That term, however, we must make our 
foundation ; and we shall afterwards examine how far 
it may be in our power to remove those obstacles which 
prevent us at present from arriving at it. 

The following table, founded on experience, may serve 
as a proof of the relative duration of human life at 
present. • 

* Thread of hfe.— Editor. 



RELATIVE DURATION OF LIFE. 



Ill 



Of a hundred men who are born, 

50 die before the 10th year, 
20 between 10 and 20 
10 between 20 and 30 
6 '' 30 " 40 
5 " 40 '' 50 
3 '' 50 " 60 
Therefore, 6 only live to be above the age of 60. 
Haller, who collected the greatest number of instan- 
ces respecting the age of man, found the relative dura- 
tion of life to be in the following proportion : 

Of men who lived from 100 to 110 years the instances 
have been 



110 to 120 . . 


. . 60 


120 " 130 . . 


. . 29 


130 '' 140 . . 


. . 15 


140 " 150 . . 


. . 6 


169 . . 


. . 1 



CHAPTEE TIL 

MORK PARTICULAR EXAMINATION OP HUMAN LiPE. ESSENTIAL DEFINITION 

OP IT. Principal Operations on which it depends. Accession from 
Without. Assimilation and Animalization. Nutrition and Prep- 
aration of the Organized Matter. Power and Organs consumed 
BY Life itself. Separation and Destruction of Exhausted Parts. 
Organs necessary for Life. History op Life. Causes of the 
LONG Duration of the Life op Man. Influence of Reason and the 
higher powers of Thought. Answer to the question, Why among 
Men, who are more fitted for Long Life than Animals, Mortality, 
however, should be Greater ? 



We now come to our principal object, the application 
of the foregoing premises to the prolongation of human 
life. But before we can be able to accomplish this point, 



112 ART or PROLONGING LIFE. 

we must first thoroughly examine the following ques- 
tions: In what does the life of man properly consist? 
On what organs, powers, and disposition of parts, does 
this important operation, and the duration of it, depend? 
In what does it essentially differ from the life of other 
creatures and beings ? 

Man, Avithout doubt, is the highest link, the crown of 
the visible creation; the last, the most complete, and 
the best finished production of the plastic power of 
jS'ature ; the highest degree of its self-representation, 
which our eyes are capable of seeing, or our senses of 
comprehending. With him our sublunary prospect is 
closed ; he is the extreme point with which and in which 
the sensible world borders on a higher spiritual world. 
The organization of man is, as it were, a magic band, 
by which two worlds of a totally different nature are 
connected and conjoined ; an eternally incomprehensible 
wonder, by which he becomes, at the same time, an in- 
habitant of these two worlds, the material and the in- 
tellectual. 

One may, with propriety, consider man as a compen- 
dium of I^ature ; as a masterpiece of conformation, in 
which all the active powers scattered throughout the 
rest of Nature, all kinds of organs and forms of life, are 
united in one whole, act in concert, and, by this means, 
make him, in the strictest sense, a little world ; a copy 
and epitome of the greater, as he was so often called 
by the ancient philosophers. 

His life is the most expanded; his organization the 
most delicate and best finished ; his juices and compo- 
nent parts the most ennobled and best prepared; and 
his intensive life and self-consumption are therefore, 
the strongest. He has, consequently, more points of 
contact with the whole of Nature, by which he is sur- 
rounded, and likewise more wants; but he has also, a 



ESSENTIAL DEFINITION OF LIFE. 118 

richer and more perfect restoration than any other being. 
The inanimate, mechanical, and chemical powers of 
Nature ; the organic or living powers ; and that spark 
of divine power, the power of thought — are here united 
and blended together, in the most wonderful manner, 
to form that godlike phenomenon which we call the life 
of man. 

Let us now take a short view of the essence and 
mechanism of this operation, as far as they can be 
discovered. 

The life of man, considered in a physical view, is 
nothing else than an incessant ceasing and being; a 
continual change of destruction and restoration ; an 
everlasting contest of chemical decomposing powers, 
with all the combining and creative vital powers. New 
component parts are every moment collected from the 
whole of Nature that surrounds us ; called to life from 
an inanimate state, and transferred from the chemical 
to the organic living world ; and from these heteroge- 
neous particles the plastic vital power produces a new 
uniform mass, which, in every point, is stamped with 
the character of life. But, in the same unceasing man- 
ner the exhausted, worn-out and corrupted component 
parts, when their combination is dissolved, become sub- 
ject again to the mechanical and chemical powers, 
which are in continual contest with the living powers; 
return from the organic to the chemical world ; and 
again become a part of inanimate nature in general, 
from which they had been separated for a short time. 
This uninterrupted business is the work of the vital 
power ever active within us ; and is consequently, at- 
tended with an incessant exertion of that power, which 
is an important part of vital operation. Life, there- 
fore, is a continual receiving, appropriation, and giving 
back ; an incessant mixture of death and new creation. 

10* 



114 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

What, then, in a common sense, we call the life of a 
creature, considered as a representation, is nothing else 
than a mere phenomenon, which has nothing peculiar 
or self-subsistent but the active spiritual power which 
forms the ground of it, and which binds and regulates 
the whole. All the rest is only appearance; a grand 
spectacle continued, where the thing represented does 
not remain the same a moment, but is incessantly 
changing; where the whole duration, form and figure 
of the representation depend, in a particular manner, 
on the matter employed, which is always varying, and 
on the manner in which it is used; and the whole phe- 
nomenon can exist no longer than the continued influx 
from without, which supplies nourishment for the pro- 
cess. Its analogy with a flame is, therefore, very great ; 
only that the latter is merely a chemical, and life a 
chcmico-animal process, a chemico-animal flame. 

The life of man then, according to its nature, depends 
on the following grand operations : 

I. Accession and rece^ption of vital nourishment from 
without. 

By nourishment is here meant not merely what we 
call food and drink, but much rather that influx, from 
the atmosphere, of subtle, spiritual, vital nourishment, 
which seems in a particular manner to contribute to- 
wards the support of the vital power, especially as the 
former coarse nourishing substances serve more for sup- 
porting and repairing the matter of the body and of its 
organs : in a word, not that alone which passes through 
the mouth and the stomach, since our lungs and skin 
receive an abundance of vital nourishment, and for 
spiritual support, are of much greater importance than 
the stomach. 

II. Apj^ropriation, assimilation^ and ariimalization ; 



ESSENTIAL OPERATIONS OP LIFE. 115 

transition from the chemical to the organic world, through 
the influence of the vital power. 

Everything that enters our bodies must first obtain 
the character of life before it can be called ours. All 
component parts, nay, the most subtle agents of IN'a- 
ture, which flow into us, must be animalized : that is 
to say, be so modified and combined, in a totally new 
manner, by the help of the vital power, that they no 
longer act according to the laws of inanimate and 
chemical nature, but according to the peculiar laws of 
organic life, and support themselves in opposition to 
others. In short, as component parts of a living body, 
they cannot be considered singly, but always as com- 
pounded according to their proper nature and the laws 
of the vital power. Everything in us, even chemical 
and mechanical powers, is, therefore, animalized; and 
this, for example, is the case with electricity, and oxy- 
gen or vital air. As soon as they are made component 
parts of a living body, they become compounded na- 
ture (animalized electricity, animalized oxygen), and 
cannot be considered merely according to the laws and 
influence which they had in common nature, but as 
subject to and acting under specific organic laws. These 
observations are applicable not only to oxygen, but 
also to other new chemical discoveries. But we must 
beware of ascribing to them the same efl'ects in the 
vital combination of our bodies, as those which we per- 
ceive them to have in the atmosphere ; for they act ac- 
cording to diff'erent and specific laws. This observa- 
tion, in my opinion, cannot be too often repeated ; and 
it alone may guard us from error in the highly impor- 
tant application of the principles of chemistry to or- 
ganic life. We, without doubt, have these chemical 
powers and agencies within us, and a knowledge of 
them is indispensably necessary ; but their method of 



116 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

operating in our bodies is modified in another manner, 
as they find themselves in a world altogether different. 

This important business of assimilation and animal- 
ization is the employment, first of the absorbing and 
glandular s^^stem, in its widest latitude ; not merely of 
the lacteal vessels, but also of the absorbing vessels of 
the skin and the lungs, which may be called the vesti- 
bule, through which everything that is to form a part 
of us must pass; and, secondly, of the system of cir- 
culation, by which the component parts are prepared 
and brought to organic perfection. 

III. Nutrition ; configuration of the animalized compo- 
nent parts ; further ennobling of them. 

The component parts, fully animalized, are now in- 
corporated and changed into organs; and this opera- 
tion is the business of the plastic power. By the' prep- 
aration of the finer and more perfect secreting vessels, 
these organized component parts are brought to their 
highest degree of purification and refinement; through 
the brain as nervous fluid, and through the organic 
system as organic juices, both of which are a combina- 
tion of the purest organic matter, with a rich abun- 
dance of vital power. 

lY. Self-consumption of the organs and powers by vital 
exertion. 

Active life itself is an incessant exertion of agency 
and power; and, consequently, attended with a con- 
tinual waste of power and consumption of the organs. 
Ever^'thing in which the power shows itself as an 
agent, and active, is exertion; for no vital exertion, 
not even the smallest, can be made without excitation 
and reaction of the power. This is a law of organic 
nature. The voluntary and insensible internal move- 
ments, therefore, of circulation, chylification, assimila- 
tion, and secretion, as well as voluntary movements. 



ESSENTIAL OPERATIONS OF LIFE. 117 

and those produced by the operations of the mind, are 
continual exertions of power, and are incessantly con- 
suming both the powers and the organs. 

This part of life is of the utmost importance in re- 
gard to its duration and condition. The stronger vital 
consumption is, the speedier life will be wasted, and 
the shorter must be its duration : but if it be too weak, 
the consequence then is too seldom a change of com- 
ponent parts, imperfect restoration, and a bad habit of 
body. 

Y. Separation and new acquisition of component parts ; 
transition of them from the organic to the chemical world, 
and their union again with ina7iimate nature in gerieral. 

The component parts which have been used, and 
which can no longer be retained in this combination, 
again separate themselves from it. They lose the in- 
fluence of the vital power, and begin to be decomposed, 
to fly off, and to be once more united according to the 
pure chemical laws of Nature. All our excretions, 
therefore, carry with them the most evident traces of 
decomposition, a process merely chemical, which, as 
such, is never possible in a state of real life. The func- 
tion of discharging these parts from the body is com- 
mitted to the organs of secretion and excretion, which 
operate with continual activity ; the intestines, kidneys, 
liver, and, in particular, the whole surface of the skin 
and lungs. These perform real chemico-animal opera- 
tions ; the removal of the parts is eff'ected by the vital 
power, but the productions are entirely chemical. 

These grand operations constitute life in general, and 
at every moment; for they are continually united, con- 
tinually present, and inseparable from the vital opera- 
tion. 

The organs which belong to life have in part been 
already mentioned. In the present point of view they 



118 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

may be most conveniently divided into three classes : 
Those ivhich receive and prepare ; those which evacuate; 
and those which keep these contrary movements, as well as 
the whole internal economy, in equipoise and order. Many 
thousands of greater or smaller organs are continually 
employed in separating and throwing off the particles 
which have been exhausted and corrupted by the in- 
ternal consumption. Besides the evacuating ducts, 
properly so-called, the whole surface of the skin and 
lungs is covered with myriads of secreting organs in 
continual activit}^. Equally numerous and various are 
the passages of the second class, those of restoration. 
It is not sufficient that the decrease of the coarser parts 
should be repaired from the nourishment by means of 
the organs of digestion ; the lungs, the organs of respi- 
ration, are also continually employed to draw in, from 
the atmosphere, nourishment, vital heat, and vital 
power. The heart, and the circulation of the blood, 
which is dependent on it, serve to regulate their move- 
ments; to diffuse to all points the received heat and 
nourishment -, and to drive off through these passages 
of excretion, those particles which have been used and 
exhausted. All these operations are assisted by the in- 
fluence of the mental powers and their organs, which 
are the most perfect in man. This indeed, increases 
intensive life and self-consumption, but at the same time 
it is a highl}^ important means of restoration, of which 
more imperfect beings are destitute. 

One ma}^ form some idea of the extraordinary self- 
consumption of the human body, when one reflects that 
the pulsation of the heart, and the motion of the blood 
connected with it, take place 100,000 times every day; 
that is to say, the heart and all the arteries are con- 
tracted 100,000 times daily, with such force as is able 
to keep a resistance of from fifty to sixty pounds of 



REPARATIVE POWERS OF LIFE. 119 

blood in continual movement. What clock, what ma- 
chine of the hardest iron, would not by such use be in 
a short time worn out ? If we add to this the almost 
equally incessant muscular motion of our bodies, which 
must occasion a much greater wasting, as these parts 
consist more of tender gelatinous particles, we may then 
have a pretty just conception with what loss of sub- 
stance, a walk, for example of ten miles, or a rapid 
journey of thirty must be attended. And not only soft 
and fluid parts, but even the hardest, are gradually worn 
out by continual use. This may be claarly perceived 
in the teeth, which are evidently destroyed by long 
use, and which, on the other hand, by being not used, 
that is, not exposed to antagonists, become exceedingly 
long. It is proved that, in this manner, we should be 
very soon destroyed were there no reparation ; and it 
has been estimated, with great probability, that every 
three months our bodies are no longer the same, but 
consist of entirely new particles. 

But equally wonderful and extraordinary is the con- 
tinual reparation of those parts which have been lost. 
This may be readily comprehended: because, notwith- 
standing the incessant loss which we sustain, our mass 
still continues the same. The fluid parts, however, re- 
generate themselves soonest ; and experience has taught 
us, that the greatest loss of blood may be again repaired 
in fourteen days. The solid parts reproduce themselves 
by the same power and mechanism as are employed in 
their first creation ; the gelatinous nourishing principle 
is conveyed by circulation to every part of the body, 
and is organized according to the plastic laws of the 
different parts. The bones even which are the hardest 
become regenerated, as is proved in the experiment with 
madder, by the use of which the bones in a short time 
become red. Whole bones lost or decayed can renew 



120 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

themselves also, and one finds sometimes with aston- 
ishment, in pieces of ivory, the hardest animal body, 
leaden bullets, which must have been lodged in them by 
a shot, and which are entirely surrounded with solid 
bone.* 

The usual progress or history of human life is, in a 
few words, as follows: 

The heart, the grand source of all vital motion as well 
as vital diffusion, and the grand principle of the excret- 
ing as well as renovating operations, becomes always 
smaller in proportion to the increase of age; so that, 
at length, it occupies an eighth part of the space which 
it did in the beginning of life.f Its substance also be- 

* The fact is true, but the explanation removes the wonder. That 
a bullet should perforate solid ivory, and that the vacuity caused by 
its passage should close up and become firm and solid is, of course, 
impossible. The explanation of the phenomenon is as follows: 
The tusk of the elephant continues to grow as long as the animal 
lives ; for this purpose it is furnished with a permanent producing 
organ, or pulp, which occupies the root of the tusk. The pulp is 
conical in shape, and, as it is constantly engaged in forming suc- 
cessive layers of ivory, the tooth is gradually pushed forwards ; 
in other words, it grows. Now, if a bullet enter the substance of 
this pulp it will, in time, by a common process of expulsion of 
foreign bodies, reach the surface of the pulp and, when that is 
effected, the next layer of ivory formed by the pulp will be de- 
posited between the pulp and the bullet ; so that now the bullet is 
not only excluded from the pulp, but the pulp has covered it over 
with a layer of ivory, and as layer after layer of new ivory is 
formed, the bullet becomes more and more deeply buried, more 
and more removed from the pulp, and eventually may be found 
in the solid substance of the ivory several inches, or even feet, dis- 
tant from its original bed. — Editor. 

f Hufeland must have meant " an eighth less space ; " he could 
hardly have intended to make a statement so perfectly erroneous 
as the above, upon a point so easily put to the proof. The heart, 
undoubtedly, diminishes a little in size in healthy old age; becomes 
firmer in texture, and less frequent in its pulsations ; adapting itself 



\ 



CESSATION OP LIFE. 121 

comes always thicker and harder; and its irritability 
becomes in the same proportion less. The active powers 
then decrease more and more every year; and the re- 
tarding powers, on the other hand, increase. The same 
thing takes place in the whole vascular system, and 
the organs of motion. All the vessels become gradu- 
ally harder, narrower, more shrivelled, and unfit for 
use; the arteries are ossified, and a great many of the 
finer vessels are entirely closed up. 

The following, therefore, are the unavoidable conse- 
quences : 

1st. By this closing up and becoming shrivelled, the 
most important and finest organs of vital regeneration, 
the passages of assimilation and external accession, the 
lungs, skin, absorbing and lacteal vessels become de- 
ranged; and, consequently, the addition of nourishing 
and enlivening component parts from without is ren- 
dered weaker. Nourishment can neither be received 
in such quantity, nor be prepared and diffused so well 
as before. 

2d. By this increasing hardness and aridity of the 
vessels they lose more and more their power of move- 
ment and sensation. Irritability and sensibility de- 
crease always in the same proportion as the former 
increase; and the active and spontaneous powers within 
us always give more place to the destructive, mechani- 
cal, and chemical powers. 

3d. By the decrease of the motive power, and the 

in fact to the smaller volume of blood contained within the body ; 
but the amount of diminution is very trifling. In a preceding 
page (108), the author ridicules, very justly, the hypothesis of the 
ancient Egyptians concerning the decrease of the heart; and in 
the examination of Thomas Parr, to which he also refers (p. 91), 
the heart, so far from being diminished in size, was found to be 
"great, thick, fibrous, and fat." — Editor. 

11 



122 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

closing up of innumerable vessels, excretion, the most 
indispensable cause of our continual purification, and 
of the removal of corrupt particles, principally suffers. 
The skin, its most important organ, becomes with years 
always closer, more impenetrable, and less useful. This 
is the case also with the kidneys, the pores of the in- 
testines, and the lungs. The juices, therefore, in old 
age, must be always more impure, more acrid, tougher, 
and more impregnated with earthy particles. Earth, 
the great enemy of vital motion, acquires in our bodies, 
by these means, a preponderance ; and thus, with a 
living body, we insensibly approach our final destina- 
tion: " Eeturn to the earth from which thou wast 
taken !" 

In this manner does life bring on a cessation of life, 
that is, natural death; and its progress is as follows: 

The powers subject to the will first decrease, and 
then the spontaneous and proper vital movements. 
The heart can no longer force the blood to the extremi- 
ties; pulsation and heat leave the feet and hands; but 
the blood is still kept in motion from the heart and 
larger vessels, and thus the vital frame, though weak, 
is for some time preserved. At length, the heart has 
not strength to press the blood through the lungs. 
Nature now employs all her power to invigorate res- 
piration, and by these means to give some passage to 
the blood. This power, at last, is exhausted ; the left 
ventricle of the heart, consequentlj^, receives no more 
blood, and is no longer irritated, and continues at rest. 
The right still receives a little transmitted to it from 
parts already half dead ; but these parts soon become 
perfectly cold ; the juices curdle; the heart receives heat 
no more, all its motion ceases, and death is complete. 

Before I proceed further I must examine some prob- 
lematical circumstances, which present themselves in 



SUPERIOR DURATION OP HUMAN LIFE. 123 

the course of every research into the duration of human 
life, and which are deserving of particular attention. 

The first problem is : How is it possible that man, whose 
organization is the most delicate and most complex, whose 
self-consumption is the most rapid, and whose duration of 
life ought consequently to be the shortest, should, however, 
exceed so evidently, in duration of life, all classes of the 
more perfect animals, which have the same size, the same 
organization, and the same place in the scale of creation f 

It is well known that the more imperfect the organ- 
ization, the greater is the duration of life, or at least the 
vital tenacity. Man, as the most perfect of all crea- 
tures, ought consequently, in this respect, to be far in- 
ferior to others. Besides, it appears from the foregoing 
research, that the duration of life of an animal will be 
shorter the more numerous its wants are for support- 
ing that life. Of these, man without doubt has the 
greatest number, and this is a new ground for a shorter 
duration. It has been likewise shown already that, 
among animals, the highest degree of self-consumption 
is the process of generation, and that it shortens in a 
very sensible manner thedr duration of life. In this 
the perfection of man is remarkably apparent; and in 
him there is also a new kind of generation, the spiritual, 
or the business of thinking; and his duration must 
thereby suffer still more. 

It may be asked, then, by what means has man such 
a superiority in regard to the duration of life ? 

In my opinion, the question may be answered from 
the following grounds: 

I. The texture of the whole cellular membrane is much 
softer and tenderer in man than in animals of the same 
class. Even the so-called nervous coat of an intestine 
is, in a dog, much harder, and cannot be so inflated as 
that of a man. The veins also, the bones, and the brain, 



124 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

are, in animals, much more solid, and abound with a 
greater quantity of earth. Now, I have before shown 
that too great a degree of hardness or brittleness in 
the organs is prejudicial to duration of life, because the 
organs thereby lose sooner their pliability and fitness 
for use; and because that stiffness and aridity which 
bring on old age, and at length a complete stoppage of 
the whole machinery, are thus hastened; man, con- 
sequently, must have old age later, and a more exten- 
sive period of life. 

II. Man grows more slowl}^; attains later to matu- 
rity ; all his powers are longer in expanding; and I 
have before shown, that the existence of a creature is 
lengthened in pro^^ortion to the time required for its 
expansion. 

III. Sleep, the greatest means of vital retardation 
and support, is in man more j)eculiarly regular and 
constant. 

lY. The perfect organization of the soul,* the faculty 
of thinking, — that is, reason, makes in a man a very 
great difference. 

This higher and divine power, Avhich exists in man 
alone, has the most visible influence, not only on his 
character in general, but also on the perfection and du- 
ration of his life; and in the following manner: 

Ist. It is perfectly natural that the sum of the active 

* I hope my readers will not here misunderstand my meaning, 
and imagine that I reckon the soul to be a part, a production, or 
property of the body. This is by no means the case. The soul, 
in my opinion, is something distinct from the body ; a being of a 
totally different, more exalted, intellectual world ; but in this 
sublunary combination, and to be a hii7nan soul, it must have or- 
gans to fit it not onl}' for action, but also for sensation, and even 
for the higher functions of thinking and combining ideas. The 
first cause of thought is, therefore, spiritual ; but the business of 
thinking, itself, as carried on in this mortal machine, is organic. 



SUPERIOR DURATION OF HUMAN LIFE. 125 

vital powers within us should be increased by the as- 
sistance of this most pure and divine power. 

2d. Man, by the most refined and most perfect or- 
ganization of the brain, acquires an entirely new organ 
of restoration peculiar to himself; or rather, his whole 
vital capacity is thereby increased. 

3d. By this highly perfect power of the soul, man 
enters into connection with an entirely new world, — the 
spiritual ; which is concealed from the rest of creation. 
It gives him points of contact altogether new — new in- 
fluences, and a new element. Might not one in this re- 
spect call man an amphibious being (pardon the ex- 
pression) of a higher kind, for he is a being who lives 
at the same time in two worlds, the material and the 
intellectual ; and apply to him what I have shown from 
experience, respecting amphibious animals, that exist- 
ence in two worlds at the same time prolongs life? 
What an immense ocean of spiritual nourishment and 
spiritual influence is opened to us by this higher and 
more perfect organization ! An entirely new class of 
means to nourish and excite the vital power, peculiar 
to man alone, here presents itself I mean the more 
refined mental and more exalted moral sensations and 
afl'ections. I shall, on this occasion, mention only the 
enjoyment and comfort which lie in music ] the art of 
painting, and the enchantments of poetry and the im- 
agination ; the pleasure which attends the investigation 
of truth or a new discovery; the rich source of happi- 
ness that may be found in the idea of futurity ; in the 
power of anticipating it, and of living, through hope, 
when the scenes now present shall be no more. "What 
comfort, what unshaken firmness may we not acquire 
from the single idea and belief of immortality. In 
short, the circle of human life is hereby extended in an 
astonishing manner ; and man actually derives his vital 

11* 



126 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

subsistence from two worlds at the same time, the ma- 
terial and the immaterial, the present and the future. 
His duration of life must, therefore, necessarily be a 
gainer. 

4th. The more perfect powers of the soul contribute 
also so far to the support and prolongation of life, that 
man thereby is made a partaker of reason^ which en- 
ables him to regulate his conduct in all things; which 
moderates instinct, a faculty merely animal, as well as 
the furious passions, and the rapid consumption con- 
nected with them ; and which by these means, is able to 
preserve him in that middle state which we have al- 
ready shown to be so necessarj^ for long life. 

In short, man evidently has more spiritual power 
than was requisite for him in the present world ; and 
this superabundance of spiritual power carries with it, 
as it were, the bodily. It is the bodily on\j which is 
subject to wasting, and to death. 

I cannot here omit to remark, how ap]3arently the 
moral object, the higher destination of man, is inter- 
woven with his physical existence: and \\o\y reason^ and 
the higher powers of thought, ^Yhich properly render him 
a man, display not only his moral, but his physical per- 
fection ; consequently, a proper cultivation of his spirit- 
ual powers, particularly the moral, makes him, beyond 
all dispute, more perfect, not only morall}^, but also 
physically; and, as we shall have occasion to see here- 
after, increases his vital capacity and vital duration. 
The man merely savage sinks, in regard to duration 
of life, to the level of the inferior animals, with which 
he is on an equality as to size and strength ; while, on 
the other hand, the weakest man, by this spiritual sub- 
sistence, can often prolong his life far beyond that of 
the strongest animal. 

From the same principles we can resolve also the 



SPIRITUALITY OF HUMAN LIFE. 127 

second problem : How comes it that among men, whose 
duration of life so far exceeds that of animals, and who, as 
experience shows, can live to an extraordinary age, so few 
attain to their real term of existence, and that the greater 
part of them die before the time; or, in other words, that 
where the longest duration is possible, there mortality is the 
greatest. 

The great softness and tenderness of the organs, 
which render man more capable of long duration, ex- 
pose his life also to more dangers, to more interrup- 
tions, to more derangements, and to more injuries. 

Besides the more points of contact he has with the 
whole of surrounding Nature, he is rendered the more 
susceptible of a multitude of prejudicial influences 
which a coarser organization does not feel. The grati- 
fication of his multiplied wants multiplies his dangers. 

Even the spiritual life is attended with its peculiar 
poisons and dangers. What knows an animal of de- 
luded hope, disappointed ambition, slighted love, care, 
repentance, or despair ? And how destructive and per- 
nicious to the life of man are these poisons of the mind ! 

Lastly, one main point is, that man, though organized 
for a reasonable being, is however, at liberty to use his 
reason or not; animals, instead of reason, have instinct; 
and, at the same time, are far more insensible and cal- 
lous in regard to destructive impressions. Instinct 
teaches them to use that which is good for them, and 
to shun that which hurts them. It tells them, when 
they have enough, when they require rest, when they 
are indisposed. Instinct, without the help of regimen, 
secures them from intemperance and dissipation. 
Among men, on the other hand, everything, even what 
concerns medicine, is referred to reason. Man has 
neither instinct to guard against error, nor resolution 
enough to withstand it. All this ought to be supplied 



128 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

by reason. If that be wanting, or if he neglect to listen 
to its admonition, he loses his only guide, his greatest 
means of support; and sinks, physically, not only to 
the level of the brute, but even below it, because brutes 
are indemnified by Nature for the want of reason in 
regard to their vital support. Man, on the contrary, 
without reason, is a prey to every noxious influence, 
and becomes the most perishable and corruptible being 
under the sun. The natural want of reason is far less 
prejudicial to the support and duration of life than the 
interrupted exercise of it, where it has been bestowed 
by Nature. But, as Ilaller, with so much truth, says, — 

O wretched being, to thy interest blind, 

In whom the angel and the brute are joined ! 

God gave thee reason to direct thy choice ; 

Yet thou thy ear turn'st from its friendly voice. 

In this lies the principal cause why among men, who 
in every respect are best fitted for long life, mortality 
is greatest. 

One need not object that this assertion is contradicted 
by many madmen who live to a great age. The first 
thing to be considered here is the species of insanity. 
If it be attended with rage and fury, these certainly 
shorten life very much ; because they are accompanied, 
in the highest degree, with exertion of the powers and 
vital consumption. And the case is the same with the 
deepest melancholy and distress of mind, as these in- 
jure the noblest organs, and destroy the powers. But 
in a mean state, where reason is not entirely gone, 
where the disorder displays itself by incoherent ideas, 
and false but often very agreeable sports of the imagi- 
nation, there the physical use of reason may continue, 
while the moral is lost. Nay, a man in this state is to 
be considered as one under the influence of a pleasant 



SIGNS OF LONG LIFE. 1^ 

dream, on whom a multitude of wants, cares, disagree- 
able and life-shortening impressions, and even physical 
causes of disease, as experience shows, produce no ef- 
fect : who lives happy in his self-created world, and is 
far less exposed to destruction and vital consumption. 
It is to be observed, in the last place, that when a lu- 
natic is totally deprived of reason, those by whom he 
is attended and taken care of, think for him, and as it 
were lend him their reason. He is therefore supported 
by reason, whether it be his own or that of another 



CHAPTEE YIII. 

Signs of Long Life in Individuals. Sound Stomach and Organs of 
Digestion. Good Teeth. Well-organized Breast. Heart not 
too Irritable. Strong natural Power op Restoration and Heal- 
ing. Sufficient Quantity and Diffusion of the Vital Power. 
Good Temperament. Faultless and well-proportioned Make of 
Body. No particular Weakness of any Part. Portrait of a 
Man destined to Long Life. 

After explaining these general principles, lean now 
proceed to lay down the special and individual grounds 
of long life, which must exist in the man himself I 
shall here, therefore, describe those grand properties^ 
and that /rame, which, according to experience and the 
foregoing observations, must be possessed by every man 
before he can lay claim to a long existence. This sketch 
may, in some measure, serve as a register of the signs 
of longevity. 

The properties, which maybe called the foundations 
of long life in man, are the following: 

I. Above all things, the stomachy and the whole sys- 
tem of digestion^ must be sound and well formed. It is 
incredible of what importance this most powerful of all 



130 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

the rulers in the animal kingdom is, in the above re- 
spect; and one may justly affirm, that, without a good 
stomach, it is impossible to attain to a great age * 

The stomach, in two respects, is the foundation of 
long life. First, as it is the principal and most impor- 
tant organ of the restoration of our nature : the door 
through which everything that is to form a part of us 
must enter; and the first vessel, on the good or bad 
condition of w^iich, not only the quantity, but also the 
quality of the addition made to our bodies must depend. 
Secondly, because, by the state of the stomach, the 
effect even which the passions, the causes of disease, 
and other destructive influences, have over our bodies, 
is modified. "He has a good stomach,'' says the pro- 
verb, when one wishes to characterize a person to whom 
neither grief, care, nor sorrow, is prejudicial; and cer- 
tainly in that expression there is a great deal of truth. 
All these passions must, in a particular manner, affect 
the stomach, and must be felt by it before they can pass 
into, or injure, our physical constitution. A strong 
robust stomach is not susceptible of any impression 
from them : on the other hand, a w^eak, sensible stomach 
is everj^ moment subject to some derangement in its 
whole frame ; and, consequently, the important business 
of restoration is continually interrupted, and carried on 
in an imperfect manner. The case is the same with 
most of the physical causes of disease. The greater 
part of them make their first impression on the stomach : 

* In a good stomach we have the secret of Thomas Parr's great 
age ; in the report of his examination after death, it is stated that 
''his viscera were sound and strong, especially his stomach : and 
it was observed of him that he used to eat often, both by night and 
by day, taking up with old cheese, milk, coarse bread, small beer, 
and whey ; and what is most remarkable, he ate at midnight, a 
little before he died." — Editor. 



SIGNS OP LONG LIFE. 131 

and, therefore, a want of digestion is the earliest symp- 
tom of illness. It is thus the first vessel by which they 
insinuate themselves into our bodies, and disturb the 
whole economy. Besides, it is a principal organ, on 
which the equilibrium of the nervous motions, and in 
particular their tendency to the periphery, depends. If 
it be powerful and active, morbid irritations cannot so 
easily fix themselves : they are removed and driven off 
through the skin, before they effect a real derangement 
of the whole system ', that is to say, before they bring 
on disease. 

A good stomach may be known two ways : not merely 
by an excellent appetite, for that may be the consequence 
of any stimulus ; but, in particular, by an easy and per- 
fect digestion. Whoever feels that he has a stomach, 
cannot have a good one. One must not be sensible that 
one has eaten ; must not be drowsy, dejected, or uneasy 
after meals: must have no phlegm in the throat in the 
morning; and the evacuations must be regular and well 
concocted. 

We are taught by experience, that all those who 
attained to a very great age had a good appetite, which 
they retained to the last. 

For good digestion, good teeth are extremely necessary; 
and one, therefore, may consider them among the essen- 
tial properties requisite for long life, and in two points 
of view. First, good and strong teeth are always a sign 
of a sound, strong constitution, and good juices. Those 
who lose their teeth early, have, in a certain measure, 
taken possession of the other world with a part of their 
bodies. Secondly, the teeth are a great help to diges- 
tion, and consequently to restoration. 

II. A well-organized breast and organs of respiration. 
These may be known by a broad, full chest, the power 
of keeping in one's breath for a long time : a strong 



132 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

• 

voice, and by being seldom subject to a cough. Breathing 
is one of the most incessant and necessary of the vital 
operations; the means of the most indispensable, 
spiritual restoration : and at the same time, the cause 
by which the blood is continually freed from a multitude 
of corrupted particles. Those in whom these organs 
are well formed, possess the greatest assurance of lon- 
gevity ; and for this reason, because an important pas- 
sao-e, bv which death and the causes of destruction 
might insinuate themselves, is fully secured. The 
breast is among the principal atria mortis,'^ one of those 
parts of which death first lays hold. 

III. A heart not too irritable. We have already seen, 
that a principal cause of our internal consumption, or 
spontaneous wasting, lies in the continual circulation 
of the blood. He who has a hundred pulsations in a 
minute, must be wasted far more speedily than he who 
has only fifty. Those, therefore, whose pulse is always 
quick, and in whom every trifling agitation of the mind, 
or every additional drop of wine, increases the motion 
of the heart, are unfortunate candidates for longevity, 
since their whole life is a continual fever; and the pro- 
longation of it is thereby counteracted in a double 
manner, partly by the speedier wasting connected with 
it, and partly because restoration is imjoeded by nothing 
so much as by an incessantly accelerated circulation. 
A certain degree of rest is absolutely necessary, that 
the nourishing particles may settle, and be converted 
into the substance of our bodies. Such people also will 
never become corpulent. 

A slow, uniform pulse is, therefore, a strong sign of 
long life, and a great means to promote it. 

IV. A sufficient quantity and diffusion of the vital power. 

* Entrance halls of death. — Editor. 



TEMPERAMENT. 133 

A good temperament. Calmness, order, and harmony in 
all the internal operations and movements, are of the 
utmost importance for supporting and prolonging life; 
but these in a particular manner, depend on a proper 
state of the general irritability and sensibility of the 
body; and the latter qualities must be neither too strong 
nor too weak, and be uniformly diffused, so that no 
part may have too great or too small a proportion. A 
certain degreeof insensibility, a small mixture of phlegm, 
are also ingredients highly necessary for prolonging the 
duration of life ; as they lessen, at the same time, self- 
consumption, favor a far more perfect restoration, and 
contribute most effectually to preserve our existence. 
A good temperament, therefore, may so far be the foun- 
dation of a long life. The best is the sanguine, tempered 
with a little of the phlegmatic. This produces a serene, 
cheerful mind, moderate passions, undaunted courage, 
and, in short, that state of soul which is most fitted for 
longevity. The cause of this disposition is generally an 
abundance of the vital power. And as Kant has al- 
ready proved that such a mixture of temperament is 
the properest for attaining to moral perfection, I am of 
opinion that one may reckon it among the best gifts of 
heaven. 

Y. A strong natural power of restoration and healing, 
by which all those losses which we daily sustain are 
not only repaired, but repaired w^ell. This depends, 
according to the above principles, on a good digestion, 
and a calm, uniform circulation of the blood. To these 
may be also added, a perfect and vigorous activity of 
the absorbing vessels (the lymphatic system), and the 
good condition and regular operation of the organs of 
secretion. The effect of the former is, that the nourish- 
ing substances pass easily into our bodies, and are en- 
abled to reach the places of their destination ; by the 

12 



134 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

latter, they are completely freed from all extraneous 
and pernicious mixture, and enter us perfectly pure. 
And this properly gives an idea of the most complete 
restoration. 

It is incredible how much this quality contributes to 
the support of life. In a man who possesses it, con- 
sumption may be exceedingly strong without his sus- 
taining much loss, as it is again repaired with the ut- 
most speed. We have, therefore, instances of men who, 
even amidst a life of debauchery and fatigue, became 
very old; and thus, for example, could a Duke de Eich- 
elieu and a Louis XY attain to a great age. 

A strong natural power of healing must also be united 
with that of restoration; or, in other words, that faculty 
of Nature by which it assists itself easily in cases of 
derangement and interruption, keeps back and removes 
the causes of disease, and favors the healing of wounds. 
There is an astonishing power of this kind in our bodies, 
as is shown by the example of savages, who are scarcely 
subject to any diseases, and among whom the most 
dreadful wounds heal up entirely of themselves. 

YI. A uniform and faultless conformation of the whole 
body. Without uniformity of structure there can be no 
uniformity of powers and motion, and without these it 
is impossible to become old. Besides, an imperfect 
structure gives an easy opportunity for the rise of local 
diseases, which may bring on death. One will not, 
therefore, find that an overgrown person ever attained 
to a very great age. 

YII. No part, no intestine must have a great degree 
of weakness, otherwise such a part may serve to give a 
ready admission to the causes of disease, to the first 
seeds of some disorder or derangement, and become, as 
it were, the atrium mortis. Even where the organiza- 
tion is very good and perfect, this may be a secret 



FAULTLESS CONFORMATION. 135 

enemy, from which destruction may be afterwards con- 
veyed to the whole body. 

YIII. The texture of the organization must be of a mean 
quality : strong and durable, but not too dry or rigid. 
We have already seen, that, through all the classes of 
organized beings, too great aridity or hardness is prej- 
udicial to the duration of life. Among men it must be 
so in the highest degree; because their organization, 
according to their destination, is the tenderest of all, 
and, by a superfluity of earthy particles, may be soonest 
rendered useless. These are injurious two ways, partly 
by bringing on much sooner old age, the grand enemy 
of life; and partly by making the finest organs of res- 
toration much sooner unfit for discharging their func- 
tions. Hardness of organization, in order to favor long 
life, must not consist so much in mechanical toughness 
as in hardness of sensation ; and must not be the prop- 
erty so much of a coarser texture as of the powers. 
The quantity of earth must be exactly so great as to 
give suflftcient elasticity and tone; but neither so large 
as to prove inflexibility, nor so small as to occasion too 
much facility of movement; for both these are hurtful 
to duration of life. 

Let me now be permitted to delineate the portrait of 
a man destined to long life. Ho has a proper and well- 
proportioned stature, without, however, being too tall. 
He is rather of the middle size, and somewhat thickset. 
His complexion is not too florid : at any rate, too much 
ruddiness in youth is seldom a sign of longevity. His 
hair approaches rather to the fair than the black ; his 
skin is strong, but not rough. His head is not too big; 
he has large veins at the extremities, and his shoulders 
are rather round than flat. His neck is not too long; 
his abdomen does not project; and his hands are large, 
but not too deeply cleft. His foot is rather thick than 



136 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

long; and his legs are firm and round. He has also a 
broad arched chest; a strong voice, and the facult}^ of 
retaining his breath for a long time without difficulty. 
In general, there is a complete harmony in all his parts. 
His senses are good, but not too delicate; his pulse is 
slow and regular. 

His stomach is excellent, his appetite good, and his 
digestion easy. The joys of the table are to him of im- 
portance; they tune his mind to serenity, and his soul 
partakes in the pleasure which they communicate. He 
does not eat merel}^ for the sake of eating, but each 
meal is an hour of daily festivity; a kind of delight, at- 
tended with this advantage, in regard to others, that 
it does not make him poorer, but richer. He eats 
slowly, and has not too much thirst. Too great thirst 
is always a sign of rapid self-consumption. 

In general, he is serene, loquacious, active, suscepti- 
ble of joy, love, and hope ; but insensible to the impres- 
sions of hatred, anger, and avarice. His passions never 
become too violent or destructive. If he ever gives 
way to anger, he experiences rather a useful glow of 
warmth, an artificial and gentle fever, without an over- 
flowing of the bile. He is fond also of employment, 
particularly calm meditation and agreeable specula- 
tions, is an optimist, a friend to nature and domestic 
felicity, has no thirst after honors or riches, and 
banishes all thoughts of to-morrow. 



METHODS FOR PROLONGING LIFE. 137 



CHAPTEE IX. 

Examinations of various New Methods for Prolonging Life. By 
Vital Elixirs. Gold Tinctures and Wonder-working Essences. 
By Hardening the Organs. By Rest and Suspending for a time 
Vital Activity. By guarding against Consumption, and the Ex- 
ternal Causes op Disease. By Fast Living. Account of the 
ONLY Methods possible by which Life can be Prolonged. Proper 
Union of the Four Principal Indications. Increasing the Vital 
Power. Strengthening the Organs. Moderating Vital Consump- 
tion. Favoring Restoration. Modification of these Methods 

ACCORDING TO DIFFERENCE OF CONSTITUTION, TEMPERAMENT, AgE, AND 

Climate. 

Yarious are the methods and plans which have been 
proposed for the prolongation of life. The old super- 
stitious, astrological, and fantastic methods we have al- 
ready examined and appreciated; but there are others, 
more modern, which appear to be founded on juster 
principles of life and vital duration, and which still de- 
serve some inquiry before we proceed to establish that 
which alone is possible. 

I think I have sufficiently proved, that the prolonga- 
tion of life is possible, four different ways : 

Ist. By increasing the vital power itself. 

2d. By hardening the organs. 

3d. By retarding vital consumption. 

4th. By facilitating and assisting restoration. 

On each of these ideas have been founded plans and 
methods, which in part are very plausible, and which 
have been much commended ; but they are all deficient, 
chiefly in this, that they regard only one object, and 
neglect the rest. 

Let us, therefore, examine and appreciate some of 
the principal. 

12* 



138 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

On the first idea, that of increasing the quantity of the 
vital poiver, has been, in particular, founded, the method 
of those who prepare and who use gold tinctures, as- 
tralish salts, the philosopher's stone, and elixirs of life. 
Electricity even, and animal magnetism, belong in part 
to this class. All the Adepts, Eosicrucians, and Con- 
sorts, and a multitude of people sensible in other re- 
spects, are fully convinced that their first matter can 
not only convert the rest of the metals into gold, but 
continually supply the lamp of life with new oil. A 
man, therefore, needs only take daily a small quantity 
of such tinctures to recruit the vital power; and thus, 
according to their theory, we can never be exposed to 
a want or a total loss of it. On this is founded the 
history of the celebrated Gualdus, who by these helps 
lived 300 years, and, as some firmly believe, is alive 
still. 

Those, however, who place confidence in these helps 
are miserably deceived. The use of such medicines, 
which are all hot and stimulating, increases naturally 
vital sensation ; and such people consider increase of 
vital sensation as a real increase of the vital power, 
without reflecting that a continual increase of the former 
is, b}^ irritation, the surest means of shortening life, and 
in the following manner: 

Ist. These, in part, spirituous medicines act as strong 
stimulants, increase the internal motion and intensive 
life, consequently the self-consumption, and occasion a 
more rapid wasting of the organs. Such is the case 
not only w^ith the coarser, but also the more refined, 
substances of this kind. Even electricity, magnetism, 
and the inspiring dephlogisticated air (oxygen gas), 
which one certainly might believe to be the gentlest 
method of instilling vital power, increase self-consump- 
tion in a high degree. This may be very clearly per- 



I 



GOLD TINCTUEES. VITAL ELIXIRS. 139 

ceived in asthmatics, who are made to inspire such air. 
Their vital sensation is thereby much exalted, but they 
die sooner. 

2d. These stimulating medicines, as they exalt vital 
sensation and also sensibility, expose one more to ex- 
ertion of the powers, to enjoyment, and to sensual 
gratifications, which some, however, particularly rec- 
ommend; and by these means increase self-consump- 
tion. 

3d. They contract and desiccate, consequently make 
the finer organs much sooner unfit for use, and bring 
on premature old age, which they ought rather to keep 
off. 

And even supposing that our vital sensation required 
to be so much exalted, neither alembics nor crucibles 
are necessary for that purpose. Nature herself has 
provided for us that most excellent spirit, wine, which 
excels all those prepared by the art of man. If there 
be anything in the world which one can call the prima 
materia, that contains the spirit of the earth in an incor- 
porated form, it is certainly this noble production ; and 
yet we find that too liberal a use of it occasions a 
speedier consumption, brings on old age, and evidently 
shortens the duration of life. 

But it is, indeed, foolish to endeavor to accumulate 
the vital power in a concentrated form within the body, 
and then to imagine that one has accomplished some- 
thing great. Are opportunities of doing this wanting? 
It abounds in everything near and around us. All the 
nourishment we take, each mouthful of air that we 
breathe, is filled with it. The principal point is to pre- 
serve our organs in a state capable of absorbing, re- 
ceiving, and appropriating it. Let a lifeless body be 
filled ever so much with vital drops, it will not begin to 
revive, because it has no longer organs to appropriate 



140 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

them. It is not the want of vital accession, but of vital 
capacity, which in the end makes men unfit to live 
longer. But here Nature herself is our guardian : and, 
in this respect, all vital drops are unnecessary. 

On the second idea, strengthening the organs, a very 
favorite system, that of hardening, has also been founded. 
It is therefore believed that the more the organs are 
hardened, the longer they must naturally withstand 
consumption and destruction. 

But we have already seen w^hat a great difference 
there is between the mechanism of a thing and its vital 
duration; and that a certain degree only of solidity is 
favorable to the latter, and that too much is highly 
prejudicial. The essential character of life consists in 
the uninterrupted and free activity of all the organs, 
and of the circulation of the juices; and what can be 
more destructive to these, and consequently to the du- 
ration of life, than too great hardness and rigidity? 
Fish certainly have the softest and most watery flesh; 
yet they far exceed, in vital duration, stronger and 
more solid animals. 

The favorite method of hardening, which consists in 
endeavoring, by the continued use of the cold bath, 
keeping the body exposed, almost naked, to the keenest 
air, and the most fatiguing exercise, to make one's self 
strong and indestructible, produces no other effect than 
that our organs become drier, tougher, and more rigid, 
consequently much sooner unfit for use ; and therefore, 
instead of prolonging life, we bring on premature old 
age and speedier dissolution. 

There is, however, some truth upon the whole, in this 
method ; and it has proved unsuccessful, because people 
united with it false ideas, and carried it too far. It is 
not so much a hardening of the vessels as of the feeling, 
that can contribute to the prolongation of life. When 



I 



PERIODICAL SUSPENSION OF LIFE. 141 

one, therefore, employs the hardening method so far as 
to make the vessels strong, but not hard or stiif, so that 
their too great irritability, a principal cause of speedy 
wasting, is blunted or removed, and the body rendered 
thereby, at the same time, less susceptible of destructive 
influences, it may certainly, in that case, be of some 
service in lengthening our existence. 

The third idea, that of retarding vital consumption^ is 
highly captivating; and has been adopted, in particular, 
with great satisfaction, but very improperly employed, 
by those who are naturally much inclined to indolence 
and ease. To waste the body by labor and exertion is, 
to such people, unpleasant in itself; they are rejoiced, 
therefore, to find it not only disagreeable, but also prej- 
udicial, and to have, in indolence, a grand secret for 
prolonging life, superior to all the arcana of Cagliostro 
and St. Germain. 

Some have gone even still farther, and in particular 
Maupertuis, who conceived it might be possible, by a 
complete suspension of vital activity, or an artificial ap- 
parent death, to check self-consumption entirely, and 
by such pauses, to preserve life for perhaps several cen- 
turies. He supported his proposition on the life of a 
chicken in the egg, and of insects in their state of 
nymph and chrysalis, which, by the help of cold and 
other means, whereby the animal is kept longer in its 
deathlike sleep, can actually be prolonged. Accord- 
ing then to these principles, nothing is necessary but 
to acquire the art of half-killing one. The same idea 
occurred even to the great Franklin. While in France, 
he received from America a quantity of Madeira wine, 
which had been bottled in Virginia. In some of the 
bottles he found a few dead flies, which he exposed to 
the warm sun in the month of July ; and in less than 
three hours these apparently dead animals recovered 



142 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

life, which had been so long suspended. At first they 
appeared as if convulsed; they then raised themselves 
on their legs, washed their eyes with their fore feet, 
dressed their wings with those behind, and began in a 
little time to fly about. This acute philosopher pro- 
posed, therefore, the following question: "Since, by 
such a complete suspension of all internal as well as ex- 
ternal consumption, it is possible to produce a pause of 
life, and at the same time to preserve the vital principle, 
might not such a process be employed in regard to 
man ? And if that be the case," adds he, like a true 
l^atriot, " I can imagine no greater pleasure than to 
cause myself to be immersed along with a few good 
friends in Madeira wine, and to be again called to life 
at the end of fifty or more years, by the genial solar 
rays of my native country, only that I may see what 
improvement the state has made, and what changes 
time has brought along with it." 

This proposal, however, vanishes again into nothing 
when we consider the real essence and object of human 
life. What is meant by the life of man ? Not, indeed, 
mere eating, drinking, and sleeping, else it would agree 
perfectly with the life of a swine, to which Cicero could 
give no other name than a preventive of corruption. 
The life of a man has a higher destination, — action, 
business, and enjoyment. It is not enough that it be 
present, it must expand, and bring to perfection those 
divine seeds which exist within him ; it must give hap- 
piness to himself and to others. Man must not merely 
fill up a gap in the creation, he must be the lord, the 
ruler, and the benefactor of it. Can one say of a man that 
he lives, when he spins out life amidst sleep, indolence, 
or apparent death ? But, what is still more, we find 
here also a new proof in how inseparable a manner the 
moral object is interwoven with his physical appoint- 



PERIODICAL SUSPENSION OP LIFE. 143 

ment and destination, and how promoting the one con- 
duces to improve the other. Such an unmanly life, as 
it may be properly called, would contribute directly 
not to prolong, but to shorten human existence, and in 
two ways : 

Ist. Human life is composed of so tender and deli- 
cate organs that they very readily become unfit for 
use by rest and inactivit}^ It is only action and exer- 
cise which make them useful and durable. Rest and 
want of exercise are their most deadly poison. 

2d. We have already seen that not merely lessening 
consumption, but promoting restoration also, in a suffi- 
cient degree, is necessary for the prolongation of life. 
But two operations are here requisite : first, perfect as- 
similation of what is useful; and secondly, excretion of 
what is hurtful. The latter can never take place with- 
out proper activity and motion. What would be the 
consequence of a prolongation of life by means of rest < 
and indolence ? The body would be consumed very 
little or not at all, and yet restoration would be car- 
ried on. A most destructive plethora must thence 
arise, because the body always receives and never 
throws off. And, what is still worse, universal corrup- 
tion, with its train of evils, acrid humors, diseases, &c., 
must gain the upperhand, as the secretion of what is 
prejudicial has been stopped. It is very natural, there- 
fore, to suppose that such a body would be much sooner 
destroyed, as experience teaches us. 

3d. With regard to the prolongation of life by a sus- 
pension of the vital activity during a temporal state of 
apparent death, I shall, in the last place, observe, that 
this idea has been founded on the exampje of insects, 
tortoises, and other animals, which, as we h^ve before 
seen, can, by such a deathlike sleep, be preserved a 



144 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

hundred years and more, and consequently far beyond 
the natural term of their existence. 

But in making such proposals, people do not reflect 
that all those experiments were tried upon very imper- 
fect animals, among which, the transition from their 
natural half-animated state to actual torpor is much 
less abrupt than it would be among men, who possess 
the highest degree of vital perfection. And one, in 
particular, must here observe the important difference 
made by the business of respiration. All these animals 
have naturally less need of breathing; and warmth is 
less necessary to them in order to retain life. Man, on 
the other hand, requires, for the preservation of his 
life, a continual accession of heat and spiritual powers; 
in short, of the 'pabulum vitce,""' which exists in the at- 
mosphere. Such a total suspension of breathing would, 
by an entire loss of internal heat, soon become mortal. 
,The more perfect agency of the soul is so interwoven 
with the organization of man, that its influence could 
not be stopped so long without causing the death and 
destruction of the more delicate organs which belong 
to it. 

Others have attempted to prolong life by endeavor- 
ing to avoid or remove the causes of disease, such as 
heat and cold, certain kinds of food and drink, &c. But 
this method is attended with one disadvantage, which 
is, that we are not able to guard against all these evils; 
and that we are, therefore, rendered much more sensi- 
ble of those which affect us. The preventing of con-- 
sumption externally may also be here included. In 
warm countries, where the heat of the atmosphere 
keeps the skin always open, and makes the evaporation 
of the component parts of our bodies far more constant, 

^ Food of hfe. — Editor. 



INCREASED INTENSIVE LIFE. 145 

people find some benefit from rubbing the skin con- 
tinually with ointments and oil, which stop up the pores, 
and prevent the more watery and volatile particles from 
flying off in perspiration. By this process one experi- 
ences a real sensation of strengthening; and, in such 
climates, it appears to be necessary to check too speedy 
consumption by profuse evaporation. But it is certain 
that it is in warm climates only that it can be em- 
ployed. In our climate, where the atmosphere itself 
acts as a medium to shut up the pores of the skin, we 
have more need of promoting perspiration than of pre- 
venting it. 

I must now say a few words respecting an entirely 
new experiment for prolonging vital existence, which 
consists merely in increasing intensive life. On this prin- 
ciple the duration of life is determined, not by number 
of days, but by the sum of its use or enjoyment; and 
it is believed that if one, within a certain period, has- 
had twice as much action and enjoyment as another, 
he has lived as much as the other in double the time. 
However much I respect this method in itself, if it 
consists in laudable exertion, and be the consequence 
of a mind fertile in action; and though I am fully con- 
vinced that, considering the uncertainty of our life, it 
presents an idea highly captivating, I must confess, 
that it will never attain its object, and that the princi- 
ple of it appears to be altogether false. As this opinion 
has found so many advocates, I hope I shall be per- 
mitted to analyze it a little more accurately, and to 
explain the grounds of my assertion. 

All the operations of nature require not only energy 
or intensive life, but also extension of 4ime. Let fruit 
receive twice as much heat and nourishment as it has 
in its natural state, and in half the time it will attain to 
apparent ripeness; but certainly not to that degree of 

13 



146 ART OP PROLONGING LIFE. 

perfection which the same fruit acquires in its natural 
state, with half the intensive activity, in double the 
time. 

The case is the same with the life of man. We must 
consider it as a whole compounded of various effects; 
as a grand ripening jorocess, the object of which is to 
give the utmost expansion and perfection possible to 
human nature, and to make it fill up that point which 
it holds in the creation. Now ripening and maturity 
are the produce only of time and experience; and it is, 
therefore, impossible that a man who has lived thirty 
years, though in that time his action and labor may 
have been doubled, should have attained to the same 
perfection and maturity that are acquired in a period 
of sixty years. Beside??, he was perhajos destined to be 
useful in the course of his life to two or three genera- 
tions; but his prematurity hurries him off before he 
has seen the end of the first. He accomplishes, then, 
neither in regard to himself nor to others, the object 
and destination of complete life ; interrupts the course 
of his days; and remains a more refined suicide. 

In a still worse point of view appear those who en- 
deavor to prolong life by concentrating its enjoyments. 
By these means they maybe wasted much sooner; and 
what is worst of all, they are often punished for their 
folly, because they must lead a life merelj^ intensive 
without any extension ; that is, they must become a 
burden to themselves and to others, or rather they 
exist longer than they live. 

The true art of prolonging human life consists in 
uniting properly-, and employing, the before-mentioned 
four principles, ^r indications, as they are termed by 
physicians; but in such a manner that none of them 
be sacrificed to the rest, and that one never forget that 
the question is concerning the life of man, which, to 



NOURISHMENT OP VITAL POWER. 147 

deserve that name, must consist not merely in existing, 
but in business and enjoyment, and in fulfilling the end 
of his destination. I shall here take a short view of 
the whole method. 

I. The sum or fund of the vital power must he sufficiently 
supplied and nourished ; yet never to such a degree as to 
occasion too violent exertion of it, but only so far as 
may be necessary for it to perform the external and in- 
ternal functions with proper ease, strength, and dura- 
tion, and to give the component parts and juices that 
organic character which is requisite for their destina- 
tion, and for guarding against chemical corruption. 
This may be done with the greatest certainty : 

1st. By sound and powerful generation. 

2d. By pure and wholesome vital nourishment or ac- 
cession from without 3 also pure atmospheric air ; and 
good, fresh, well-digested food and drink. 

3d. By a sound and useful state of those organs by 
which everything added to us from without must be 
assimilated before it can do us good. These essential 
organs are the hmgs, stomach, and skin; on the preserv- 
ing of which in a sound state, vital nourishment de- 
pends in a very particular manner. 

4th. By a uniform diffusion of the j^ower through- 
out the whole body. Every part, every intestine, every 
point of our bodies, must obtain such a quantity of the 
vital power as may be necessary to enable it to dis- 
charge its functions properly. Does any part acquire 
too little, a weakness of it is the consequence; if it ac- 
quire too much, the consequences are too violent mo- 
tion, irritation, accumulations of it ; and then that har- 
mony, the grand pillar of sound life, is, at any rate, al- 
ways destroyed. This uniform distribution of the 
power may be promoted, in particular, by the uniform 
use and exercise of each part and each organ of the 



148 ART OP PROLONGING LIFE. 

body; by bodily motion, proper gymnastic exercise, 
the tepid bath, and friction. 

II. A sufficient degree of solidity or hardjiess must be 
given to the organs or corporeal matter; but not such as 
to render them actually stiff and rigid, which, instead 
of being beneficial to the body, would be hurtful to it. 

The hardness to which I here allude is of two kinds: 
increased binding and cohesion of the component parts, 
as well as physical solidity of the vessels; and next, 
hardening the sensation against noxious and morbid 
impressions. 

Sufficient solidity or cohesion of the vessels, which 
physicians call tone, acts in the following manner, in 
regard to the prolongation of life : 

First, as the cohesion of our component parts is there- 
by increased, they cannot be so speedily wasted, de- 
stroyed, and separated by the vital process; conse- 
quently the change of the component parts is not so 
rapid; it is not necessary that they should be so often 
renewed ; and the whole intensive life is more slow, 
which is always an advantage in regard to its extension 
and duration. For the better illustration of this sub- 
ject, I shall here only compare the life of a child with 
that of a man. In the former, the power of cohesion, 
the solidity of the vessels, are much less; the connex- 
ion of the component parts is weaker and more lax, it 
wastes away therefore much speedier; the change of 
its component parts is more rapid; it must eat more, 
and much oftener; it must sleep longer, and more fre- 
quently, to renew what has been lost; and the blood 
must circulate with far greater velocity; in a word, its 
intensive life and self-consumption are much stronger 
than in a man who has vessels more solid. 

Secondly, as the organs are thereby, in reality, first 
strengthened. The vital power alone supplies no 



TONE AND STRENGTH OF ORGANS. 149 

strength. To produce what we call strength of the or- 
gans, and also of the whole system, a sufficient degree 
of simple power of cohesion must be combined with 
the vital power. This likewise will appear in the clearest 
manner, from the comparison of a child with a man. 
A child is far more abundant in vital power, irritability, 
tendency to growth, and the power of reproduction, 
than a man; yet this body, so rich in life, has less 
strength than that of a man, merely because the cohe- 
sion of the vessels in the child is weaker and more loose. 

Lastly, because the too great morbific or irregular 
irritability, sensibility, and general delicacy of the 
vessels, are regulated, moderated, kept within proper 
bounds, and preserved in good order, by a sufficient 
mixture of the power of cohesion ; and by these means 
the too strong irritation and consumption of the power 
by life are lessened; the extension and duration of life 
are, consequently, increased ; and this advantage also 
is gained, that external noxious causes of irritation act 
less rapidly, and with less violence. 

By a stronger cohesion, the capacity of the matter 
for receiving vital power seems also to be heightened; 
at any rate, a stronger connection of the vital power 
with the matter is effected. 

The means by which this increased solidity and cohe- 
sion of the vessels can be produced, are as follows : 

Ist. Exercise, and the use of the muscular powers 
and vessels, both voluntary, by voluntary muscular 
motion, as well as involuntary, for example, of the 
stomach and intestines by suitable stimulants, such as 
food somewhat solid or hard; and of the bloodvessels, 
by somewhat stimulating medicines. On each move- 
ment of a vessel, it contracts; that is to say, its com- 
ponent parts approach each other; and if this be done 
often, its cohesion or tone will be increased. One only 

13* 



150 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

must be extremely cautious not to occasion too strong 
an irritation, else consumption might be too much in- 
creased, and the consequences become dangerous. 

2d. The use of gelatinous, corroborating nourishment, 
impregnated with ferruginous particles, which increase 
this power; and to avoid too many watery substances, 
w4iich might lessen it. 

3d. To promote moderate perspiration by friction, 
motion, &c. 

4th. A cool temperature of the atmosphere, and of 
the whole system, a point of the utmost importance. 
Though cold is not a positive strengthener of the vital 
power, yet it increases and strengthens the weak cohe- 
sive power or tone; corrects too strong exertion of the 
vital power as w^ell as prevents it from being exhausted; 
and, in this manner, can be a negative strengthener of 
the vital power itself Warmth, on the other hand, 
weakens, partly by relaxing the cohesion, and partly 
by exhausting the vital power. 

I must, however, repeat, in regard to all these means, 
cold, strong substantial nourishment, motion, &c., that 
one must not carry them too far, lest, instead of the 
requisite solidity, too great stiffness or rigidity of the 
vessels should be produced. 

The sensation will be best hardened against the 
causes of disease, if one accustom one's self to such im- 
pressions, and to sudden changes. 

III. The vital consumption must he so lessened, or mode- 
rated, that it may not be attended xoith too speedy wasting 
of the powers and the organs. 

The whole vital operation, as has been already shown, 
consists in action, exertion of the vital power; and is 
consequently connected, in an inseparable manner, 
with consumption and wasting of that power. This is 
the case, not only in regard to the voluntary, but also 



RESTRICTED VITAL CONSUMPTION. 151 

the involuntary, functions ; not only in the external, 
but also the internal, vital operations; for they are 
supported by continual irritation and reaction. Neither 
of these, therefore, must be overstrained, if we are de- 
sirous of preventing consumption. 

Among these I reckon, in a particular manner, the 
following irritations and exertions of power: 

1st. Straining the system of the heart and blood, 
with too great quickening of the circulation; that is, 
by too stimulating, hot nourishment, affections, and 
feverish disorders. Great wine and brandy drinkers, 
as well as passionate people, have a quick, accelerated 
pulse, and keep themselves in an incessant artificial 
fever, by which they are as much wasted and consumed 
as they would be by a real fever. 

2d. Too strong or continued straining of the powers 
of thought : by which, not only the vital power is ex- 
hausted, but the stomach and system of digestion are 
injured, and consequently the most important means 
of restoration are weakened. 

3d. Too abundant and too strong irritation and 
gratification of the animal passions. These tend as 
much to hasten vital consumption, as straining the 
powers of thought. 

4th. Too violent and too long-continued muscular 
motion. Yery great excess, however, is necessary be- 
fore this can be hurtful. 

5th. All strong or long-continued excretions, such as 
perspiration, diarrhoea, catarrh, cough, loss of blood, 
&c. These exhaust not only the power but also the 
matter, and tend to corrupt the quality of the latter. 

6th. All too violent or too long-continued causes of 
irritation acting upon us, by which the power is always 
exhausted. The more irritable a life is, the quicker it 
will pass away. To these belong too strong or too in- 



152 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

cessant irritation of the organs of the mind and sensa- 
tion; passions, excess in wine, brandy, spiceries, and 
seasoning of food. Frequent overloading the stomach 
may be included in the same class; especially as it for 
the most part renders necessary the use of evacuants 
and purgatives, which, as they weaken, are also preju- 
dicial. 

7th. Diseases with highly increased irritation, par- 
ticularly such as are feverish. 

8th. Heat, when it acts upon us too incessantly and 
with too much strength. Keeping the body too warm, 
therefore, from infancy, is one of the greatest means 
to hasten consumption, and to shorten the duration of 
life. 

9th. In the last place, too great a degree of irrita- 
bility and sensibility in the vessels deserves also to be 
inserted in this rubric. The greater these are, the 
easier can any stimulus, even the smallest, excite vio- 
lent irritation, exertion of power, and consequently oc- 
casion a waste of that power. A man with this faulty 
constitution is sensible of a great many impressions 
which have no effect on common men, and is doubly 
affected even by the most usual accidents of life. His 
-intensive life, of course, is infinitely stronger; but his 
vital consumption must be greatly accelerated. Every- 
thing, therefore, which can increase irritability, either 
moral or physical, may be reckoned to belong to those 
means w^hich hasten consumption. 

ly. Restoration of the lost powers and matter must he 
effected easily and completely. For this purpose the fol- 
lowing things are necessary: 

1st. Soundness, vigor, and activity of those organs 
by which the restorative particles must pass into our 
bodies. This process is, in part, continual and perma- 
nent, as through the lungs; and partly periodical, as 



RESTORATION OF VITAL POWER. 153 

through the stomach. To these organs belong the lungs, 
the skin, the stomach, and the intestines. That restora- 
tion may be performed well, these parts must be thor- 
oughly sound, fit for use, and active. They are conse- 
quently of the utmost importance in prolonging life. 

2d. Soundness, activity, and vigor of the innumera- 
ble vessels, by which the component parts received into 
our bodies must be assimilated, rendered homogeneous, 
be brought to perfection, and ennobled. This is first, 
and in a particular manner the function of the absorb- 
ing or lacteal system, with its multitude of glands; and 
secondly, of circulation, or the system of the blood, by 
which organic ennobling is completed. I consider the 
absorbing system, therefore, as one of the grand means 
of restoration. In this respect ive must, above all 
things, direct our attention to infancy; for the first 
nourishment in the tenderest state of childhood, the 
treatment, during the first year of life, determine, for 
the most part, the condition of this system, as it too 
often happens that it is destroyed in the beginning, by 
weak, corrupted, viscid nourishment, and impurities ; 
and an essential foundation is thus laid for a short life. 

3d. A sound state of the nourishment and matter 
from which we are restored. Our food and drink must 
be pure, that is, free from corrupted particles; abundant 
in nutritive principles; stimulating in a certain degree, 
for that quality is necessary to promote proper digestion 
and the whole vital operation, but combined, at the 
same time, with a sufiicient quantity of water or of 
fluids. The last is an important circumstance, but often 
neglected. Water, if it be not nourishment of itself 
(though this, by the instance of fishes, worms, &c., who 
may be fed for a long time with water alone, seems 
highly probable), is at any rate indispensably necessary 
for the business of restoration and nourishment ; first, 



154 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

because it must be the vehicle for the proper nutritive 
substances, in order that they may be sufficiently dif- 
fused from the intestines to every point of the body, 
and secondly, because this vehicle is absolutely neces- 
sary to produce sufficient secretion and evacuation of 
what is corrupted, and consequently for the purification 
of the body. 

4th. A healthful and proper state of the atmosphere 
in which and on which we live. The air is our peculiar 
element; and, in two points of view, an important me- 
dium of restoration. First, because it communicates to 
us two of the most spiritual and most necessary com- 
ponent parts of life, oxygen and heat; and, secondly, 
because it is the most important vehicle for attracting 
from us and absorbing our component particles which 
have become corrupted. It is the principal medium for 
this continual exchange of the finer component parts. 
The far most considerable and important of our excre- 
tions are gaseous; that is to say, the matter must be 
converted into va]3or in order to be expelled. To these 
belong all excretions of the superficies of our bodies, the 
skin and the lungs. This evaporation depends not 
merely on the power and activity of the vessels of res- 
piration, but on the quality of the air which they draw 
in. The more it is already loaded with component 
parts, the less new substance can it receive; and, there- 
fore, moist air checks perspiration. From these prin- 
ciples we may deduce the following conclusions : The 
atmosphere in which we live must contain a sufficient 
quantity of vital air, but not too much, else it might 
stimulate too violently and hasten vital consumption. 
It must likewise contain as few foreign component 
parts dissolved in it as possible; it must also be neither 
moist, nor rendered impure by earthy, vegetable, or 



RESTORATION OF VITAL POWER. 153 

animal particles :* its temperature must be neither too 
warm nor too cold; for, in the former case, it exhausts 
and weakens the power, in the latter makes the vessels 
too stiff and rigid ; and it must neither in its tempera- 
ture, mixture, nor pressure, be subject to too rapid 
changes; for it is a law, fully confirmed by experience, 
that uniformity in the atmosphere and climate is un- 
commonly favorable to long life. 

5th. A free passage and active organs to promote se- 
cretion and evacuation of the corrupted component par- 
ticles. Our life consists of a continual change of com- 
ponent parts. Were not those which have been ex- 
hausted and rendered useless continually separated and 
expelled, it would be impossible that we could appro- 
priate new ones in sufficient quantity; and, what is still 
worse, the new addition, by being mixed with those 
particles kept back, would itself acquire the character 
of corruption. Hence, the so-called acridity, viscosity? 
impurity, and putrefaction of the juices, or rather of 
the whole matter of the bodj^ Eestoration, therefore, 
is by bad secretion prevented two ways; partly in the 
quantity, and partly in the quality. The organs on 
which this secretion and purifying of the body princi- 
pally depend, are the skin, the kidneys^ the liver, the ijites- 
tines, and the lungs. Of these the first is the most im- 
portant, as it is calculated that two-thirds of the com- 
ponent parts which have been used, evaporate by the 
insensible perspiration of the skin. 

* In defining corrupted air an accurate distinction should be 
made between impure air and saturated air, which in general are 
confounded. Corruption of the air may consist either in too small 
a quantity of oxygen gas, or in the chemical mixture ; and air so 
corrupted may be called impure air, in opposition to pure vital air ; 
or it may be corrupted by foreign component parts received into 
it, and then it is called saturated. 



156 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

6th. To stimulate the senses in an agreeable manner, 
and with moderation. Man, in consequence of the su- 
periority of his organization, as has been already shown, 
and of his higher physical perfection, is susceptible of 
more refined as well as more exalted impressions; and, 
consequently, they must have a greater influence on 
tlie physical state of his life than on animals. By these 
means there is opened for him a new source of restora- 
tion, which is denied to animals ; the enjoyment and 
stimulus of sensual pleasure, when not carried to too 
great a length. 

7th. Putting the mind in an agreeable frame; joyful 
and moderate affections ; a succession of new, grand 
ideas; creating, combining, and varying them. These 
more exalted pleasures, exclusively peculiar to man, 
belong to this catalogue of the means which contribute 
to prolong his existence. Hope, love, and joy are there- 
fore happy affections; and there is nothing which tends 
with so much certainty and so generally to preserve 
life and health as cheerfulness and serenity of mind. Such 
a disposition keeps the vital power in a proper uniform 
state, promotes circulation and digestion, and assists in 
a very powerful manner the function of insensible per- 
spiration. Happy, therefore, even in a physical point 
of view, is that man on whom Heaven has bestowed a 
contented and serene mind, or who, by im2:»roving and 
cultivating his moral faculties, has been able to procure 
that blessing. He has within himself the noblest and 
purest balsam of life. 

The principles here laid down contain the fundamen- 
tal rules on which every rational general plan for pro- 
longing life must be founded. But what is necessary 
in regard to every dietetic and medicinal precept is 
necessary here, that, in applying them, regard must be 



PRINCIPLES MODIFYING RESTORATION. 157 

had to special cases; and that, therefore, they must be 
more accurately modified and determined. 

The following circumstances, in particular, are to be 
attended to in the application of them : 

Difference of constitution in the subjects, in regard to 
their simple component parts and vessels. The drier, 
the harder, and more rigid the state of the body natu- 
rally is, the less need there will be for employing the 
means of the second indication, that is, a proper hard- 
ening ; but the more relaxed the vessels are by nature, 
the contrary must be the case. 

Further, the different innate temperaments, under 
which I comprehend the different degrees of irritability, 
and their relation to the powers of the soul. The more 
a subject inclines to the phlegmatic temperament, the 
more and the stronger irritants may be employed. 
A degree of irritation, which in a sanguine tempera- 
ment would waste and exhaust, is here beneficial ; 
necessary to promote a sufiicient degree of vital opera- 
tion, and a means of restoration. The case is the same 
with the melancholic temperament : it requires more ir- 
ritation, but variegated, of a pleasant nature, and not 
too violent. The more the sanguine temperament pre- 
vails the more cautiously and moderately must all 
stimulants as well physical as moral be employed ; and 
in this respect, the choleric, where the smallest stimu- 
lus may often produce the most violent exertion and 
rapid wasting, requires the greatest attention. 

The periods of life. — Children and young people have 
far more vital power and irritability ; their structure 
is less solid; and the change of their component parts 
is more rapid. Much less irritation must, therefore, be 
here given, because a small irritation excites strong re- 
action. More regard must be proportionally paid to 
restoration, and hardening. In old age, on the other 

U 



158 ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

hand, ever3^thing called irritation may be employed in 
a stronger degree. What in infancy would be consump- 
tion, is here restoration. Milk is wine for children; 
wine is milk for old people. Old age requires, there- 
fore, on account of the great rigidity connected with it, 
not an increase of that quality by the second indication, 
but a lessening of it by means of emollients and moist- 
ening things, meat-broths, strong soups, and the tepid 
bath. 

Lastly. — Climate^ also, makes some difference. The 
more southern it is, the greater is the irritability; the 
stronger continual irritation is, the more rapid will 
the stream of life flow, and the shorter will be its du- 
ration. Great attention is here necessary that this ex- 
hausting of the power by too strong irritation, may 
not be accelerated. In a northern climate on the other 
hand, where the temperature being cooler concentrates 
the power more and keeps it together, this is much 
less to be apprehended. 



PART THE SECO^-D. 



I NOW proceed to the most important part of this 
treatise, the Practical Art of Prolonging Life ; and I 
can now make known with confidence, and on good 
grounds, those means by which alone prolongation of 
it is possible. If they are not so specious, so boasting, 
and so mysterious as those commonly recommended, 
they have this advantage, that they may be every- 
where found without expense, nay, that they in part 
lie within ourselves ; that they are perfectly consistent 
with reason as well as experience; and that they pro- 
long, not merely life, but also the enjoyment of it. In 
a word, according to my idea, they deserve the name 
of universal remedies, much more than all the panaceas 
of quackery and imposture. 

We are continually surrounded by the friends and 
the enemies of life. He who keeps company with its 
friends, will become old ; but he who prefers its ene- 
mies, will shorten his existence. It might be expected 
of every prudent man, that he would prefer the former, 
and be always on his guard against the latter; but it 
is an unfortunate circumstance that these enemies of 
life are not all public and known. They, in part, carry 
on their attacks secretly and imperceptibly ; so that 
some of them assume the mask of life's best friends. 
It is, therefore, difficult to discover them; and some we 
even harbor within our own bosoms. 

The principal part of this Art, then, will consist in 



160 MEANS WHICH SHORTEN LIFE. 

being able to distinguish our friends from our enemies, 
and in learning to guard against the latter. In other 
words, the Art of Prolonging Life may be divided into 
two parts : 

I. Guarding against the enemies of life, and those 

means which shorten it. 

II. The knowledge and use of those means which 

tend to prolong it. 



MEANS WHICH SHOETEN LIFE. 

According to the principles before laid down, the 
only grounds on which the duration of life depends, it 
will not be difficult to determine in how many differ- 
ent ways it may be shortened. 

1st. Everything must shorten it which lessens the 
sum of the vital power. 

2d. Everything that takes from the organs of life 
their duration and renders them unfit for use. 

3d. Everything that hastens vital consumption. 

4th. And everything that prevents restoration. 

Everything that shortens life may be comprehended 
in these four classes ; and we have now a standard by 
which the greater or less mischief occasioned by their 
influence can be determined and appreciated. The 
more these four properties are in anything united, the 
more dangerous and hostile will it be to our vital du- 



MEANS WHICH SHORTEN LIFE. 161 

ration ; and the fewer it contains, it will be less so. 
Nay, there are mixed substances, which present as it 
were two sides, one friendly and another hostile ; that 
is to say, which possess one of the above properties, 
but at the same time are more favorable and beneficial 
to us than hurtful. These may form one peculiar class, 
but we shall here, according to their prevailing quality, 
assign them a place, either among those things which 
are friendly, or those which are hostile. 

Between those things which shorten life, there is a 
difference still more important. Some act slowly, suc- 
cessively, and often very imperceptibly; others, on the 
contrary, violently as well as suddenly; and these may 
be rather named the destroyers of life. To these belong 
certain diseases, and the various kinds of violent death, 
as they are properly called. The latter, in general, are 
much more dreaded than the former, because their 
efi'ects are more perceptible and more terrible; but I 
can assure my readers, that they are at bottom much 
less dangerous than these secret enemies ; for they are 
so open that people can be much sooner on their guard 
against them than against the former, which carry on 
their destructive approaches in private, and daily steal 
from us some part of life without our perceiving it, 
though the loss in the end may amount to a sum truly 
alarming. 

I must here make one melancholy remark, which is, 
that the enemies of our life have, in modern times, 
dreadfully increased ; and that the degree of civiliza- 
tion, luxury, refinement, and deviation from nature in 
which we at present live, by so highly exalting our in- 
tensive life, tends also to shorten, in the same propor- 
tion, our existence. We shall find on close examina- 
tion, that men appear, as it were, to have anxiously 
studied how they might deprive each other of life secretly 

14* 



162 MEANS WHICH SHORTEN LIFE. 

and imperceptibly, and often in the most ingenious 
manner possible. Much more precaution and attention 
are, therefore, now necessary in order to secure our- 
selves from danger. 



CHAPTEE I. 

Delicate Nursing and Treatment in Infancy. 

There is no surer method of rendering the vital 
thread of a being from its origin short and perishable, 
than by giving it, during the first years of life, which 
may be considered as a continued generation and ex- 
pansion, a very warm, tender, and delicate education; 
that is, by guarding it from every breath of cool air; 
burying it for at least a year among pillows and blank- 
ets, and keeping it like a chicken in a real state of 
hatching; not omitting, at the same time, to stuff it 
immoderatel}^ with food; and, by coffee, chocolate, wine, 
spice, and such like things (which for children are noth- 
ing else than poison), to irritate it beyond measure, and 
to render its whole vital activity too strong and violent. 
By these means its internal consumption is from its 
birth so accelerated, its intensive life is so early exalted, 
and its organs are rendered so weak, tender, and sen- 
sible, that one may assert that, through two years' 
treatment of this kind, an innate vital capacity of sixty 
years may be reduced one-half; nay, as experience un- 
fortunately shows, to much less, without reckoning 
those evil accidents and diseases which may besides 
be the consequence. The premature expansion of our 
organs and powers is by nothing so much hastened as 



PHYSICAL EXCESS IN YOUTH. 168 

by such a forced education ; and we have before proved 
what an intimate connection there is between rapid or 
slow expansion, and a longer and shorter duration of 
life in general. Speedy ripening carries always along 
with it* speedy destruction. This, certainly, is one 
great cause of the dreadful mortality which prevails 
among children. But men overlook those causes which 
lie nearest to them, and assume rather the most absurd, 
in order that their minds may be at rest, and that 
they may have as little to do as possible. 



CHAPTEE II. 

Physical Excess in Youth. 

" As j^'outh is the period of growth, of forming and 
collecting the powers of the future man, every kind of 
excess calculated to weaken or exhaust the vital powers 
should be carefully guarded against. There are certain 
active properties which belong to this period, such as 
muscular motion, which can hardly be carried beyond 
the bounds of health. But the excesses most to be 
dreaded are those which spring from a too early antici- 
pation of the future man, in which the imagination and 
the feelings play a conspicuous part. Youth, it cannot 
be too often repeated, is the time for storing strength, 

* One of the most remarkable instances of the prematurity of 
nature was Louis II, King of Hungary. He was born so long 
before tbe time that be had no skin. In his second year he was 
crowned ; in his tenth he succeeded ; in his fourteenth he had a 
complete beard ; in his fifteenth he married ; in his eighteenth he 
had gray hair, and in his twentieth he died. 



164 MEANS WHICH SHORTEN LIFE. 

both physical and moral; and every act which can in 
any way impede or frustrate this all-wise intention of 
Nature, will tend to lay the foundation of a weak and 
imperfect body, and shorten the daj^s of its possessor. 
Among the passions of the future man, which, at this 
period, should be strictly restrained, is that of physical 
love ; for none wars so completely against the principles 
which have been already laid down as the most con- 
ducive to long life; no excess so thoroughly lessens the 
sum of the vital power; none so much weakens and 
softens the organs of life; none is more active in has- 
tening vital consumption ; and none so totally prohibits 
restoration. 

" I might, if it were necessary, draw a painful, nay, a 
frightful picture, of the results of these melancholy ex- 
cesses; but I refrain, in the hope that this simple cau- 
tion will be sufficient. To my youthful readers I will 
simply say. Be ivise in time. Experience may appear a 
harsh, but, nevertheless, she is a just monitor." — Editor. 



CHAPTEE III. 

Overstrained Exertion of the Mental Faculties. 

Mental as well as bodily excess is attended with de- 
structive consequences ; and it is worthy of remark, 
that too great exertion of the mental faculties, and the 
waste of the vital power connected with it, produce on 
the health and vital duration almost the same effects as 
a waste of the physical powers — loss of the power of 
digestion, depression, dejection, weakness of the nerves, 
consumption, and premature death. 

Much, however, depends here on the difference of 



OVERSTRAINED MENTAL EXERTION. 165 

structure and constitution : and those who have natu- 
rally a stronger and more active organization of soul, 
must suffer less from such exertion than those who are 
destitute of that advantage. Those, therefore, are most 
affected by it who, with a moderate structure of mind, 
attempt to force it beyond its powers; and that excess- 
ive mental exertion which we make involuntarily, and 
without pleasure in the object of it, will hence weaken 
us most. 

But it may here be asked, what is meant by excess 
in mental exertion ? This, in general, is as diflScult to 
be defined as excess in eating and drinking ; because 
the whole depends on the difference in the capacity and 
state of the mental powers, and these are as different 
as the powers of digestion. That may be excess of 
mental exertion for one, which is not so for another, 
endowed with stronger faculties. The circumstances, 
also, under which that function is exercised, make a 
very essential difference. I shall, therefore, define more 
accurately what is to be understood by excess in the 
function of thinking. 

1st. When one, while employed in abstruse thought, 
neglects too much the body. Every irregular exertion 
of our powers is hurtful ; and as a man is infinitely 
more weakened when he exercises his thought without 
attending to bodily exercise, it is equally certain that 
those can undergo more mental labor, and with much 
less injury to their health, who, in the meantime, give 
to the body suitable and periodical exercise. 

2d. When one thinks too incessantly on the same sub- 
ject. The same law prevails here as in regard to mus- 
cular motion. When one moves the arm continually in 
the same direction, one, in a quarter of an hour, will 
become more fatigued than if the limb had been moved 
two hours in various directions. Nothing exhausts so 



166 MEANS WHICH SHORTEN LIFE. 

much as uniformity in the pursuit and employment of 
the mental powers; and Boerhaave tells us that after 
having bestowed intense study, for a few days and 
nights, on the same object, he fell suddenly into such a 
state of lassitude and relaxation, that he lay some time 
in an insensible and deathlike condition. A proper 
change of objects is, therefore, the first rule in order to 
study without injury to the health, and even to accom- 
plish more work upon the whole. I am acquainted 
with great and intense thinkers, mathematicians, and 
philosophers, who, at an advanced period of life, are 
still happy and contented; but I know also that they 
have made this variety a law, and that they always 
divide their time between these abstract studies and 
reading history, agreeable poetry, travels, and works 
of natural history. It is of great benefit, in this re- 
spect, to unite always a practical with a speculative life. 
3d. When one employs the mind on too abstract or 
difficult subjects; as, for example, problems of the higher 
mathematics and metaphysics. The object makes a 
very essential difference. The more abstract it is, and 
the more it obliges one to disengage one's self from the 
sensual world, and, as it were, to insulate the mind sep- 
arated from the body, the most unnatural state, with- 
out doubt, that can possibly be, the more weakening 
and overstraining is its effect. Half an hour of such 
abstraction exhausts more than a whole day employed 
in translation. But here, also, a great deal is relative. 
Many are born for such labor, and have those powers 
and that frame of mind which it requires; while, on 
the other hand, many are destitute of both, and yet 
endeavor to force them. It appears to me very singu- 
lar that, when it is requisite to raise up a corjDoreal 
burden, people alwa^^s first try it by their strength, to 
discover whether it be not too heavy for them ; but in 



OVERSTRAINED MENTAL EXERTION. 167 

regard to a mental burden, never consult their powers 
to know whether they are sufficient to sustain it. How 
many have I seen miserable and enervated, merely be- 
cause they attempted to dive to the depths of philos- 
ophy without having philosophical heads ! Must every 
man, then, be a philosopher by profession, as seems to 
be the mode at present ? In my opinion, a particular 
organization is necessary for that purpose ; and it may 
be left to the chosen few to investigate and unfold the 
secrets of philosophy; as to others, let them be con- 
tented with acting and living like philosophers. 

4th. I consider it also as excess, when one labors al- 
ways in creating and never in enjoying what has been 
created by others. The labor of the mind may be di- 
vided into two parts : the creative^ which produces of 
itself and gives birth to new ideas ; and the recipient^ 
or passive, which merely receives and enjoys foreign 
ideas, as, for example, by reading or hearing others. 
The former is by far the most exhausting; and one 
ought, therefore, to vary them, and to enjoy them in 
turns. 

5th. "When one begins to overstrain the mind too 
early in infancy. At this period a small exertion is 
highly prejudicial. Before the age of aeven, all mental 
labor is an unnatural state, and attended with conse- 
quences as fatal to the body as the most exhausting 
excess. 

6th. When one studies invita Minerva, that is, applies 
to subjects on which one labors unwillingly, and not con 
amore. The more inclination one has for any kind of 
mental enjoyment, exertion will be the less hurtful. 
More caution, therefore, is necessary in the choice of 
studies ; and wretched must those be who neglect an 
object of so much importance. 

7th. When one stimulates, strengthens, or prolongs 



168 MEANS WHICH SHORTEN LIFE. 

mental exertion by artificial means. People employ 
commonly, for this purpose, wine, coffee, or snuff; and 
though these artificial helps of thought are in general 
not to be approved, because they always exhaust 
doubly, it must, however, be confessed, that, at those 
times when the labor of the mind does not depend upon 
the will, but on periods and hours, they cannot alto- 
gether be dispensed with ; and on such occasions, a dish 
of coffee, a pipe of tobacco, or a pinch of snuff, may be 
the most sufferable. But let people be on their guard 
against excess ; because an abuse of them must increase, 
in an incredible degree, the mischief of mental exertion. 

8th. When one overstrains the mind during the time 
of digestion. This occasions double injury : one weak- 
ens one's self more, as more exertion is then necessary 
for thinking, and interrupts at the same time the im- 
portant function of digestion. 

9th. When one employs, in mental labor, that time 
which ought to be devoted to sleep; a custom highly 
prejudicial to life, and of which I shall speak more ex- 
pressly when I come to treat on sleep. 

10th. When one unites study with hurtful external 
circumstances ; and of these there are two in particu- 
lar, sitting in a beiit posture, and co?ifined air ; which are 
often more destructive in their consequences than in- 
tense thinking itself People, therefore ought to ac- 
custom themselves to study lying, standing, walking, or 
riding on a hobby ; not always in the closet, but some- 
times in the open air ; and they will then suffer much 
less from those diseases which are so incident to men of 
letters. The ancient philosophers undoubtedly studied 
as much as the modern literati ; and yet never suffered 
from bodily disease induced by such a study. The sole 
cause of this was, that they meditated more, lying 
or walking, and in the open air ; because they never 



MISMANAGEMENT OP DISEASES. 169 

drank coffee, or used tobacco ; and because, at the same 
time that they exercised the mind, they never negr 
lected the care and the exercise of the body. 



CHAPTEE lY. 



DiSKASES. Injodicious Mannkr op Treatin(J Thbm. Sudpen K1ND8 
OF Death. Propensity to Self-Murder. 

Dreadfully has this host of the secret and open 
enemies of life increased in modern times. "When one 
reflects how little a savage of the South Sea Islands 
knows of diseases, and then takes a view of a European 
compendium of pathology, where they are marshalled 
by regiments and companies, and where their number 
amounts to several thousands, one cannot help being 
alarmed to find that so n^ueh is possible for luxury, 
corruption of morals, unnatural modes of living, and 
excesses. Many, nay, the greater part of these diseases, 
are occasioned by our own fault; and it is equally cer- 
tain that new ones may be created by the like conduct. 
Others came into the world no one knows when or how, 
and were altogether strangers to the ancients. These 
are the most inveterate and destructive; the small-pox, 
the measles, and scarlet fever : and these even are so 
far owing to ourselves, that we suffer them to spread 
and exercise their ravages, without forming any regur 
lations to check them ; though it is proved that, by ^ 
proper exercise of reason, with the help of those obser- 
vations that have been collected, we might banish them 
from our boundaries, in the same manner as they were 
introduced. 

15 



170 MEANS WHICH SHORTEN LIEE. 

The greater part of diseases act either as violent kinds 
of death ; the means of suddenly stopping vital opera- 
tion, like the apoplexy ; or as the means of shortening 
it gradually, by being either totally incurable, or, even 
when they are cured, by leaving behind them such a 
loss of the vital powder, or such weakness and derange- 
ment of the nobler organs, that a body so affected can 
no longer attain to that term of life to which it was 
originally destined. 

The following short view, collected from different bills 
of mortality, will show, in the clearest manner, how 
monstrous that loss is which mankind sustain at present 
by disease. Of a thousand persons who are born, 24 
die at their very birth ; teething carries off 50; convul- 
sions and other diseases during the two first years, 277 ; 
the small-pox, which, as is well known, destroys one in 
ten, carries off 80 or 90; and the measles 10. If they 
are females, 8 die in childbed. The asthma, consump- 
tion, and disorders of the chest, at least in England, 
destroy 190 ; violent fevers, 150 ; apoplexy, 12, and the 
dropsy, 41. Of a thousand persons also, we can allow 
only 78 who die of old age, or rather at an advanced 
period of life; for the greater part of these will fall a 
sacrifice to accidental affections. In short, it hence 
appears, that nine-tenths of mankind die always prem- 
aturely, and by the effects of disease. 

I must here mention also a new and detestable dis- 
order, which tends to the immediate destruction of life. 
I mean a propensity to self-murder. This unnatural 
passion, which prevailed formerly through direful neces- 
sity and heroic resolution, has now become a disease, 
which, in the bloom of youth, amidst the most favorable 
circumstances, merely by disgust and satiety of life, can 
excite the most hori-id and irresistible desire to deprive 



MISMANAGEMENT OF DISEASES. 171 

one's self of existence.* There are, indeed, men in whom 
every source of vital sensation and vital enjoyment is 
so exhausted, in whom every germ of activity and hap- 
piness is so deadened, that they find nothing so insipid, 
so disagreeable, and so disgustful as life; that they have 
no longer any points of contact with the world which 
surrounds them ; and that life, at last, becomes to them 
such an oppressive burden, that they cannot withstand 
the desire of getting rid of it. And these men, for the 
most part, are such as, by youthful dissipation, and too 
early a wasting of the powers and vigor which ought to 
be the seasoning of life, have exhausted themselves, and 
become incapable of relishing its enjoyments. Is it not 
natural that such unfortunate beings should prefer death 
without all sensation, to a living death which their life 
may undoubtedly be called ? 

But the mischiefs of these already too numerous and 
dangerous enemies are infinitely increased because 
people in part treat them very improperly, and in gen- 
eral abuse medicine too much. 

Among those improprieties which regard the treat- 
ment of diseases, I reckon the following: When people, 
notwithstanding every proof of their mischief, suffer the 
causes of disease to remain in activity; when one, for 
example, evidently observes, that drinking wine, the 
use of too light clothing, or sitting up late at night, 
brings on disease, and yet continues these practices: 
also, when one totally mistakes the disease, or will not 
allow that any exists, by which means a very trifling 
indisposition may be converted into a serious malady. 
And here I cannot help particularly mentioning a neg- 
ligence to which the lives of thousands are undoubtedly 

* In seventy-five years, twice as many people in London fall a 
sacrifice to suicide as to the pleurisy. 



172 MEANS WHICH SHORTEN LIFE. 

sacrificed, I mean neglecting a catarrh or cough. People 
in general consider this as a necessary, and, in part, 
useful evil ; and in that respect they are right, if the 
catarrh be moderate and do not continue too long. But 
one ought never to forget that every catarrh is a disease, 
and may readily end in an inflammation of the lungs, 
or, what is more frequently the case, in an asthma or 
consumption • and I do not say too much when I assert, 
that one-half of all the asthmas arise from catarrhs 
which have been thus neglected. Such mischief follows 
when they continue too long, or have been improperly 
treated; and I therefore recommend the two following 
rules, which ought to be sacredly observed by every 
one who is attacked by a catarrh of the chest. One 
must not overlook a catarrh cough more than a fort- 
night ; if it continue longer, it must be considered as 
a disease, and be treated by a physician. Secondly, 
during the time every catarrh lasts, one must guard 
against violent heating of the body, cold, and the use 
of spices, wine, and other spirituous liquors. 

It is also a too common mode of improperly treating 
diseases, that people often, partly from ignorance or 
prejudice, and partly through mistaken tendency, do 
exactly the contrary of what ought properly to be 
done. Of this kind are, when people oblige the patient 
to eat, though he has no appetite -, when during fever- 
ish disorders, he is suffered to use beer, wine, coffee, 
meat-soups, and other rich and nourishing things, by 
which the slightest degree of fever may be changed 
into the most violent ; when people, on the patient's 
complaining of a fever, and that cold which is con- 
nected with it, bury him immediately under bed-clothes, 
shut up the doors and the windows, and heat the air 
of the apartment as much as possible; and when they 
do not pay suflScient attention to cleanliness and ven- 



I 



FREQUENCY OP VIOLENT DEATH. 173 

tilation. This injudicious treatment destroys more of 
mankind than disease itself; and is principally the 
cause why, in the country, so many strong sound men 
fall a sacrifice to death ; why, diseases there so readily 
assume a malignant quality ; why, for example, the 
small-pox is more destructive there in winter than in 
summer, because people shut the doors and windows, 
and, by artificial means, keep up in the patient's bed- 
chamber a heat equally great perhaps as that which 
prevails during the summer. 

And, lastly, I reckon among these improprieties, 
when one consults no physician, or consults one that is 
unskilful, uses medicine injudiciously, has recourse to 
quacks, and employs secret means, universal remedies, 
&c., of which I shall treat more at length when I come 
to the rational use of medicine. 

The violent kinds of death also sweep off an immense 
number of mankind ; and these, in modern times, have 
unfortunately made great progress. ISTot only have a 
more enlarged spirit of enterprise, the greater frequency 
of sea-voyages, and more extensive trade, multiplied 
such accidents ; but people have fallen upon inventions 
for accomplishing the object of shortening life in an 
incredibly quick and refined manner. I shall here men- 
tion only gunpowder, and several new sorts of poison, 
such as Aqua Tofana, Succession Powder, &c. Nay, the 
art of killing has now become a peculiar and exalted 
science. 



15^ 



174 MEANS WHICH SHORTEN LIFE. 



CHAPTEE Y. 

Impure Air. Men living together in Large Cities. 

One of the greatest means of shortening human life 
is, men living together in great cities. Dreadful is the 
preponderance which the ravage thence occasioned has 
in the bills of mortality. In Vienna, Berlin, Paris, and 
London, the twentieth or twenty-third person dies an- 
nually ; while in the country around them, the propor- 
tion is only one in thirty or forty. Eousseau is per- 
fectly right, when he says that men, of all animals, are 
the least formed for living together in great multitudes. 
The breath of a man is deadly for his fellow-creature; 
and this is the case both in a proper as well as a figu- 
rative sense. The moisture, or, as it is commonly 
called, the thickness of the air, is not what alone makes 
it prejudicial, but the animalization which it acquires 
by so many people being crowded together. We can 
at most breathe the same air only four times; for it is 
then, from the finest support of life, converted by our- 
selves into the most deadly poison. Let one now only 
reflect on the atmosphere of such monstrous places, 
where it is impossible for an inhabitant to inspire a 
mouthful of air that has not been for some time already 
in the lungs of another. This produces a general se- 
cret poisoning, which, upon the whole, must necessarily 
shorten the duration of life. Those men who are able, 
ought to avoid living in great cities : they are open sep- 
ulchres for mankind; and not onl}' in a physical, but 
in a moral point of view. Even in cities of moderate 
size, where perhaps the streets are somewhat narrow, 



INTEMPERANCE IN EATING. 176 

people should prefer a residence in the suburbs; and it 
is at least their duty to quit the city atmosphere for an 
hour or half an hour every day, merely in order that 
they may inspire a little fresh air. 



CHAPTEE YI. 



Intemperance in Eating and Drinking. Refined Cookery. 
Spirituous Liquors. 

The first thing which, in regard to diet, can act as a 
shortener of life, is immoderation. Eating and drinking 
too much is prejudicial to life two ways. It overstrains 
the powers of digestion, and thereby weakens them. It 
prevents digestion, because with such a quantity the 
whole cannot be properly prepared ; and crudities in the 
intestines, and bad juices, are the consequence. It in- 
creases also proportionably the quantity of the blood, 
and thereby accelerates circulation and life; and be- 
sides, it gives rise to indigestion, and the necessity of 
using evacuants, which always weaken. 

To eat too much, means when people eat till they can 
eat no longer; and the following are the signs : When 
one experiences a heaviness and fulness of the stomach, 
yawning, eructation, drowsiness, and confusion in the 
head. The old rule, which contains much truth, ought, 
therefore, to be always observed : Give over eating 
while you have still some appetite left. 

Too refined cookery belongs to the same class. Unfor- 
tunately I must here exclaim against this friend of our 
palate, as one of the greatest enemies of life ; as one of 



176 MEANS WHICH SHORTEN LIFE. 

the most destructive inventions for shortening it, and 
in the following manner : 

1st. It is well known that the principal part of this 
art consists in making everything piquant and stimu- 
lating. Every article of food, therefore, is half com- 
posed, according to this preparation, of hot, stimula- 
ting substances ; and instead of accomplishing, by eat- 
ing, what is the natur.il object of it, nourishment and 
restoration, we increase rather, by irritation, internal 
consumption, and actuall}^ produce the contrary. After 
a meal of this kind one has always an artificial fever; 
and those who use such food may justly say, consumendo 
consumimur.'^ 

2d. The worst is, that people, by this cookery are 
always induced to eat too much. They become such 
friends to their palate, that every remonstrance of the 
stomach is ineffectual ; and as the palate is always 
tickled in a new and agreeable manner, the stomach 
has thrice or four times as much labor as it is capable 
of performing. For it is a very common fault, that 
one does not make a distinction between the appetite 
of the palate and that of the stomach -, but considers 
that as a real, which is only a false, appetite -, and this 
error is by nothing favored so much as refined cookery. 
Man thereby loses, at length, one of the greatest sup- 
ports of life, the property of knowing w^hen he has had 
enough. 

3d. One grand maxim in this cookery is, by the most 
unnatural and most variegated compositions, to pro- 
duce new stimulants and. new disbes. And hence it 
happens that things which singly and alone were per- 
fectly harmless and innocent, acquire, by combination, 
properties altogether new and destructive. Acids and 

* In consuming we are ourselves consumed. — Editor. 



i 



INTEMPERANCE IN EATING. 177 

sweet substances, for example, do not hurt when used 
separately; but, when used together, they may become 
prejudicial. Eggs, milk, butter and flour, are each, 
used by itself, very easy of digestion ; but when joined 
together, and formed into a fat solid pudding, the pro- 
duce will be extremely heavy and indigestible. It 
may, therefore, be laid down as a fundamental princi- 
ple, that the more compounded any kind of food is, the 
more difficult it will be of digestion ; and what is still 
worse, the more corrupt will be the juices which are 
prepared from it. 

4th. A grand acquisition in the newest mode of 
cookery is the art of bringing nourishing juices into 
the body in the most concentrated form. Hence we 
have consommes, jus, coulus, and many other things of 
the like kind. By expression and boiling, people have 
found means to concentrate the substance of several 
pounds of beef, capon, and marrow-bones, into the small 
size of a jelly or soup; and they imagine they have ac- 
complished something great when they send such an 
essence of nourishment immediately, and at once, into 
the blood, without exposing the teeth to the trouble of 
chewing, or the stomach to the labor of digesting. 
That is to say, people imagine they can restore them- 
selves full gallop ; and this is the favorite system of 
those who consume themselves in that manner. But 
these people are miserably deceived; for, 

In the first place, one can never deviate from the 
regulations of Nature without injury. ]S"ot without 
reason has it been made a law, that the stomach can 
receive only a certain quantity : a degree more would 
be too much for the whole. Everybody can admit only 
a proportionable quantity of nourishment ; and this ca- 
pacity of the whole is always in direct ratio with the 
stomach. Man here defrauds Nature ; he goes beyond 



178 MEANS WHICH SHORTEN LIFE. 

the first principle, if I may say so ; and smuggles, as it 
were, into the body, thrice or four times as much nour- 
ishment as it is capable of receiving. The consequence 
is, a continual plethora of all the vessels ; and this al- 
ways destroys the equilibrium as well as the health, 
and, in the end, life itself. 

Secondly, it has been established by Nature, on 
grounds equally good, that our nourishment should be 
used in a form rather coarse. The advantage of this 
law is, that our food is first chewed in the mouth, mace- 
rated and mixed with saliva; in the next place, that it 
is longer retained in the stomach, in order, by its stimu- 
lating quality, to incite the stomach to more reaction; 
consequently, it is much better assimilated and changed 
into the nature of our substance. On this property 
depends real restoration ; for nourishment can pass into 
our bodies, and become truly useful to us, only after it 
has been by the powers of the stomach, rendered hom- 
ogeneous and similar to our sabstance. 

By transgressing this first principle, one creates in 
the body juices, which, because they have not been suf- 
ficiently assimilated, are unable to efi'ect proper resto- 
ration ; which, as foreign particles, tend rather to irri- 
tate ; and thus promote consumption, much more than 
restoration. 

In my opinion, therefore, it is highty proper that an 
art which prevents restoration, which fills us with raw 
undigested juices, and which increases internal con- 
sumption, should be considered, not as a friend of our 
life, but as one of its most essential enemies. One 
might almost imagine that it was invented to convert 
one of the noblest gifts of God into a secret poison. 

Lastly, we may place in this class of things, that tend 
in a particular manner to shorten life, all 'preparations 
of spirituous liquors^ which, under whatever name known, 



I 



PASSIONS AND DISPOSITIONS OF MIND. 179 

are, in that respect, highly prejudicial. When people 
drink these, they drink liquid fire. They accelerate 
vital consumption in a dreadful manner; and make life, 
in the properest sense, a process of burning. 



CHAPTEE yil. 

Passions and Dispositions op Mind which Shoeten Life. Peevish- 
ness. Too MUCH Occupation and Business. 

Certain habits and dispositions of mind, such as 
melancholy, care, dejection, fear, anxiety, faint-hearted- 
ness, and, in particular, avarice and hatred, which are 
hostile to life, claim a distinguished rank among those 
means which tend to shorten it. 

All these exhaust the finest of the vital powers; de- 
stroy, in particular, digestion and assimilation ; weaken 
the vigor of the heart ; and, by these means, impede the 
important business of restoration. The first or melan- 
choly affections act, however, negatively in shortening 
life. On the other hand, those of avarice and hatred 
have, as it were, a positive property of bringing on 
death. They not only deprive the body of its vital 
powers, but, as they incessantly sharpen the bile, they 
are continually preparing a secret poison ; and by the 
general irritation of the bile, increase, in an extraordi- 
nary degree, self-consumption. That motto, therefore, 
is highly proper: Avarice consumes itself. 

To these belongs that malignant disposition of mind 
known by the name of peevishness. Nothing can so 
much blast the bloom of life, shut up every access to 
pleasure and enjoyment, and change the beautiful 
stream of life into a stagnated puddle, as this disagree- 



180 MEANS WHICH SHORTEN LIFE. 

able habit. I advise every one who regards his life to 
fly from this deadly poison, and never to suffer it even 
to approach. 

Fear, also, deserves here a particular place. It be- 
longs in like manner, to those bad habits of mind which 
one can harbor or banish at pleasure. 

Walter, an Englishman, who sailed round the world 
with Anson, was conversing one day with young Ber- 
kenhout; and as the latter happened to mention the 
word Fear, Walter, with some emotion, replied, Fear 
is a base passio7i, beneath the dignity of man. 

And, without doubt, it is one of the most absurd : a 
passion which debases and degrades man, as much as 
its opposite passion, courage, can exalt and elevate him 
above human nature. Fear robs him of power, reflec- 
tion, judgment, resolution ; in a word, of all that pre- 
eminence which the human mind enjoys; and, to ac- 
custom children not to fear, ought to be one of the first 
principles of education. But, unfortunately, the direct 
contrary is the case. I shall here enlarge on two only 
of the most usual kinds of fear: fear of thunder, and 
fear of apparitions or spirits. Now he who is subject 
to both these may bid farewell to happiness and tran- 
quillity. The period of night, which by its obscurity is 
so wisely destined for sweet repose, is to him the signal 
of the most painful uneasiness, While others enjoy 
peaceful sleep, he listens with trembling and dismay to 
the smallest sound; the sweat of horror bursts forth 
from every pore of his body; and he is more fatigued 
in the morning than at the moment when he lay down. 

The joyful season of summer is to him also a period 
of terror and dread ; and every fine day brings with it 
the idea of thunder, and the apprehension of danger. 

One may easily comj)rehend what destructive influ- 
ence such continual misery must h^-ve on the duration 



PEAR. 181 

of life. Fear is an incessant cramp; it contracts all the 
smaller vessels; the whole skin grows cold, and perspi- 
ration is completely checked. The blood is collected 
in the interior large vessels : pulsation becomes irregu- 
lar; the heart is overcharged and cannot move with 
freedom. The important business of circulation is there- 
fore deranged. Digestion is also interrupted, and cramp- 
ish affections take place. All the muscular power is 
palsied; the sufferer attempts to run, but is not able; 
he is seized with a general shivering; he breathes short, 
and with difficulty; in a word, fear has all those effects 
which are produced by a mortal secret poison, and its 
consequences are equally pernicious in shortening life. 
It is impossible for me to omit here a characteristic 
of modern times, which certainly deprives us of a valua- 
ble part of our life; namely, that unfortunate spirit of 
restless enterprise (polypragmosine), which at present 
subdues a great part of the human race; an incessant 
fickleness, and propensity to new undertakings, new 
labors, and new plans. The genius of our age seems to 
incline men, much more than is natural for them, to re- 
flection, activity, speculations, and reformation of every 
kind : and to exercise with more vigor all the powers 
which they possess : for the great increase of luxury, by 
still multiplying its wants, makes new schemes and 
new exertions of the faculties always more necessary. 
Hence arises that endless uneasiness which destroys all 
sensation of internal tranquillity and contentment; 
which never suffers men to enjoy that degree of peace 
and relaxation indispeosably requisite for restoring 
them: and which, consequently, in an alarming manner, 
accelerates consumption. 



16 



182 MEANS WHICH SHORTEN LIFE. 



CHAPTEE VIII. 

The Fear op Death. 

No kind of fear is attended with more unhappiness 
than the fear of death. He who is subject to it dreads 
something which is totally unavoidable, and against 
which we can never be a moment secure. He enjoys 
pleasure with trembling and anxiety; he denies him- 
self everything because everything may be the vehicle 
of death ; and, by this everlasting apprehension of 
losing life, he loses it in reality. No one who feared 
death ever attained to a great age. 

Jjove life, and fear not death! is a command and a 
prophecy, the only true frame of mind to become happy 
and old; for whoever fears death may bid farewell to 
happiness. To him no enjoyment is pure ; every pleas- 
ure is poisoned with the idea of death ; he is always 
like a malefactor pursued ; the enemy is continually 
at his heels; and yet there are an immense number of 
people who are not able to banish from them this dis- 
ease of the mind. For the benefit of these I shall here 
lay down some rules, which though they may not dis- 
play much metaphysical acuteness, I can recommend 
as good preservatives against the fear of death ; and 
which I know by experience to have been effectual. 

1st. Let a man make himself very familiar with the 
idea of death. He alone, in my opinion, is happy who 
has so often, and in so undaunted a manner, looked 
this unavoidable enemy in the face, that by long cus- 
tom, it has at length become to him a matter of indif- 
ference. How much do those deceive themselves who 



FEAR OF DEATH. 188 

imagine they have found, in banishing the thoughts of 
death, the best remedy for the fear of it. Before they 
are aware, amidst the most lively enjoyment will the 
idea rush upon them, and derange them the more, the 
less they are acquainted with it. In a word, I can call 
those alone fortunate who have carried this custom so 
far that in the moment of joy they can think of death 
without being depressed ; and my readers may believe 
me, for I assert it on my own experience, that, by often 
dwelling upon this idea and moderating its appearances, 
we shall at length acquire a wonderful indiiference re- 
specting it. Let us only turn our attention to soldiers, 
sailors, and miners. Where shall we find men more 
contented and happy, more susceptible of every joy ? 
And for what reason ? Because, by their continual ap- 
proach to death, they have learned to despise it. He 
who no longer fears death is alone free; there is noth- 
ing else that can fetter his senses, disturb him, or 
render him unhappy. His soul is filled with exalted 
and undaunted courage, which strengthens the vital 
power, and which is therefore a positive means of re- 
moving this fear. 

This custom is attended also with some cone omi- 
tant circumstances which are undoubtedly of no little 
importance. It is an excellent help to enable one to 
continue honest and virtuous. On every occasion of 
doubt, when the question arises whether an action be 
right or wrong, let a man think only on the last hour 
of his life, and ask himself, Wouldst thou then do so ; 
wilt thou then wish to have acted so? Innocence is 
certainly that happy state, that enjoyment of life, 
which can enable a man to think on death without ter- 
ror. If a man harbor enmity or revenge against 
another, if he entertain a wish of avenging an injury 
done to him, let him only reflect on that hour, and on 



184 MEANS WHICH SHORTEN LIFE. 

the state in which his thoughts will then be, and I en- 
gage that his ideas of enmity and revenge will imme- 
diately forsake him. The reason is, that, by thus 
changing the theatre of action, all those little selfish 
objects by which we are usually guided are removed ; 
everything at once appears in its proper point of view, 
under its just proportion ; the deception vanishes, and 
nothing remains but what is real* 

2d. Many fear death much less than the operation of 
dying. People here form the most singular conception 
of the last struggle, the separation of the soul from the 
body, and the like. But this is all void of foundation. 
No man certainly ever felt what death is ; and as in- 
sensibly as we enter into life, equally insensibly do we 
leave it. The beginning and end are here united. My 
proofs are as follows : First, man can have no sensation of 
dying; for to die means nothing more than to lose the 

* Allied with the fear of death is the foolish objection which 
some people have to making their wills, and doing that which 
none others can do so well as themselves, — namely, arranging 
their affairs. Indeed I have known some so irrational as to en- 
tertain alarm at the insurance of their lives ; as though the thought 
on death could hasten its approach. The duty of making a will 
is one which ought to be performed by every person the moment 
he arrives at man's or woman's estate, and the neglect of that 
duty I regard as a dangerous sin. The great Locke in a letter to 
Lord King, has these memorable reflections on making his will: 
" I shall not die the sooner for having cast up my reckoning, and, 
judging as impartially of my state as I can, I hope I shall not 
live one jot the less cheerfully the time that I am here, nor ne- 
glect any of the offices of life whilst I have it ; for whether it be 
a month, or a year, or seven years longer — the longest any one 
out of kindness or compliment can propose to me — is so near noth- 
ing when considered and in respect of eternity, that if the sight 
of death can put an end to the comforts of life, it is always near 
enough, especially to one of my age, to have no satisfaction in 
living." — Lord King's Life of Locke, 2d edit., p. 40. — Editor. 



I 



FEAR OF DEATH. 1S6 

vital power; and it is the vital power by which the 
soul communicates sensation to the body. In propor- 
tion as the vital power decreases, we lose the power of 
sensation and of consciousness; and we cannnot lose 
life, without at the same time, or rather before, losing 
our vital sensation, which requires the assistance of the 
tenderest organs. We are taught also by experience, 
that all those who ever passed through the first stage 
of death, and were again brought to life, unanim ously 
asserted that they felt nothing of dying, but sunk at 
once into a state of insensibility. Let us not be led 
into a mistake by the convulsive throbs, the rattling in 
the throat, and the apparent pangs of death, which are 
observed in many persons when in a dying state. These 
symptoms are painful only to the spectators, and not 
to the dying, who are not sensible of them. The case 
here is the same as if one, from the dreadful contor- 
tions of a person in an epileptic fit, should form a con- 
clusion respecting his internal feelings. From what 
affects us so much, he suffers nothing. 

3d. Let one always consider life, as it really is, a 
mean state, which is not an object itself, but a medium 
for obtaining an object, as the multifarious imperfec- 
tions of it sufficiently prove ; as a period of expansion 
and preparation, a fragment of our existence, through 
which we are to be fitted for and transmitted to other 
periods. Can the idea, then, of really making this 
transition ; of ascending to another from this mean 
state, this doubtful problematical existence, which never 
affords complete satisfaction, ever excite terror ? With 
courage and confidence we may, therefore, resign our- 
selves to the will of that Supreme Being, who without 
our consent, placed us upon this sublunary theatre ; and 
give up to His management the future direction of our 
fate. 

16* 



186 MEANS WHICH SHORTEN LIFE. 

4th. Eemembrance of the past, of that circle of friends 
who were nearest and always will be dearest to our 
hearts, and who, as it were, now smile to us with a 
friendly look of invitation from that country of dark- 
ness, will tend also very much to allay the fear of death. 



CHAPTEE IX. 

Idleness. Inactivity. Languor. 

But an opposite conduct, that of neglecting to ex- 
ercise our powers, may tend also to shorten life; because, 
by these means, the organs will soon become unfit for 
use; and derangement of them, interrupted purifica- 
tion of the juices, and bad restoration, must be the con- 
sequence. It was the first and unalterable destination 
of man, that he should earn his bread by the sweat of 
his brow. And this principle is fully confirmed, in a 
physical sense, by experience: he who eats without 
labor will never thrive. If the necessary proportion 
be not preserved between restoration and self-consump- 
tion, it is impossible to retain health or prolong life. 
If we consult observation, we shall find that no idler 
ever attained to a great age, and that those who have 
been distinguished b}^ their longevity were all men 
whose lives had been extremely active and laborious. 

Eut mental idleness is hurtful, as well as bodily; and 
I now come to a means of shortening life, which per- 
haps my readers did not expect, because it apparently 
naakes the time appear to us so long; I here allude to 
languor. Let us examine the physical effects of it a 
little closer, and we shall see that this unpleasant state 



LANGUOR. 187 

of mind is by no means a matter of indifference, but 
that it is attended with very important consequences 
to the condition of our bodies. What do we remark in 
a man who is subject to languor? He begins to yawn ; 
this already betrays that the passage of the blood 
through the lungs is interrupted. The power of the 
heart and vessels suffers of course, and becomes too 
torpid. If the evil continue longer, accumulations and 
stoppages of the blood take place. The organs of di- 
gestion acquire a tendency to weakness; and inactivity 
and inability, melancholy, flatulency, and hypochon- 
driac affections ensue; in a word, all the functions are 
thereby weakened and deranged; and I think I may 
with truth aflSrm, that a state which disturbs the most 
important operations of the body, and which enfeebles 
the noblest powers, is a shortener of life also. 

Languor, in a physical as well as a moral view, is a 
state of danger. Weikard mentions the instance of a 
child born of poor parents, who were obliged to earn 
their bread by their daily labor. The state of this 
child, from its birth, was therefore languor. At first 
the parents suffered it to lie alone in its cradle, where 
it spent its time in looking at its hands and feet. When 
it became bigger, it was always shut up in a hen-house, 
where it could see out only through a small hole. What 
was the consequence ? The child, when it grew up, re- 
mained heavy and stupid; showed no signs of reason, 
and could scarcely speak. 

Nay, it is attended with effects still more destructive. 
With a melancholy temperament, languor may at 
length conduct one to self-murder. A dull English au- 
thor, who has written a voluminous work on suicide, 
relates, that he one day met one of his countrymen who 
exhibited every appearance of deep thought. "Whither 
art thou going, my friend V said the author. " To the 



188 MEANS WHICH SHORTEN LIFE. 

Thames, to drown myself/' " I beg of you," replied 
the author, "to return home for this time, and to read 
over my work on suicide." " God forbid !" answered 
the other. " It was reading that cursed, tedious book, 
which excited in me such a dreadful disgust of life that 
I am now firmly resolved to drown myself" 

But I think I hear every one ask. What in the world 
is the best remedy for languor? It accompanies us to 
the ball, to the play-house, to the tea-table, in our walks; 
in short, it is impossible for us to get rid of it! What 
you say is perfectly true, but it does not relieve us. 
There is only one, but not a very agreeable, remedy for 
it, and that is regular employmerit. 



CHAPTEE X. 

Overstrained Power of the Imagination. Imaginary Diseases. 
Sensibility. 

Imagination was given us as the seasoning of life; 
but as physical seasoning must not be made our daily 
nourishment, our mental life, in the like manner, must 
not abuse this seasoning of the soul. Too much of it 
will, indeed, exalt vital sensation ; but one thereby in- 
creases intensive life together with consumption, and 
prevents restoration, as is proved by the meagreness of 
such people as have fervid imaginations. Besides one, 
by these means, disposes the body to sudden as well as 
violent revolutions, which may become dangerous to 
life, because, with an overstretched imagination, it is 
possible for a small spark to produce a most dreadful 
explosion. He, therefore, who wishes to live long, must 



IMAGINARY DISEASES. 189 

never suffer this power of the soul to assume a superior- 
ity, or to occasion a continued state of exaltation ; he 
will apply it to that purpose for which it was bestowed 
upon us, to give a higher lustre to the agreeable mo- 
ments of life, to season the unfortunate or insipid, and 
to enliven the melancholy. 

This faculty may be highly prejudicial to life, when 
it acquires certain tendencies, which, by their collateral 
effects, produce double mischief; and of these, two ap- 
pear to me to be particularly dangerous, — a propensity 
to imagine diseases and too great sensibility. 

The first disease of the imagination is principally 
peculiar to hypochondriacs; but may be excited in those 
who are not physicians, if they read works on medicine, 
which they do not, like professional men, apply to the 
art, but to their own persons; and who, for want of suf- 
ficient knowledge, conjecture often very erroneously. 
Of this I have seen astonishing instances. Not only 
people, who with features perfectly regular, supposed 
that their noses stood awry; and who, though slender 
and sound in every respect, could not get rid of the 
idea that they were in the last stage of the dropsy, but 
I have seen a lady who, if asked whether she had not 
this or the other local disorder, felt in a moment every 
symptom of it. Having asked her if she had not the 
headache, she was instantly seized with it; and on 
asking, in the like manner, respecting the cramp in the 
arm, and the hiccup, both these affections immediately 
took place. 

' Tulpius mentions the instance of a man who, by read- 
ing a great number of medical and chirurgical books, 
became quite frantic. 

Monro saw a man, who, by studying medicine under 
Boerhaave, had become hypochondriacal. Whenever 
he attended any of Boerhaave's lectures, he always im- 



190 MEANS WHICH SHORTEN LIFE. 

agined that he was affected with the disease which had 
heen the subject of it. By these means he was a con- 
tinual living commentary on the science of physic; but 
he had scarcely gone half through this destructive 
course of medicine, when he found himself so wretched 
and exhausted that he was obliged to give up the study 
altogether. Nay, we have had the instance of a person 
who imagined himself to be actually dead, and who, 
therefore, would have been starved, had not a friend, 
who pretended to be dead also, persuaded him that it 
was customary in the other world to eat a sufficient 
quantity daily. 

The misfortune attending this weakness not only is 
that it occasions constant fear and dread, and that many 
diseases are actually excited because people suppose 
they are afflicted with them, but it induces patients to 
have recourse to useless and preposterous medicines, 
and to quackery without end, which often consume the 
body much more rapidly than the disease itself would, 
did it really exist. 

No less dangerous is the second disease of the imagi- 
nation, sensibility; a romantic turn of mind, melancholy 
enthusiasm. It is altogether the same whether one 
really suffers under distressful events, or, by reading 
romances and indulging sensibility too much, has made 
one's self so feelingly alive to every impression as to be 
overcome by the sensation it occasions. Nay, the latter 
case is the more prejudicial; as the one is the natural 
state, but the other artificial; and its affections are, 
therefore, more violent and stronger. We have already 
seen how highly destructive melancholy is to the vital 
power and to every vital movement. One may easily 
comprehend, then, how baneful such a state must be, 
which subjects the mind to continual affliction at the 
hazard of life, and which cannot partake in refined 



POISONS. 191 

pleasures without tears and heart-breaking sensations. 
What extinction of all energy, of all cheerfulness and 
courage! Two years spent in such a state of anguish, 
would undoubtedly shorten life in a considerable degree. 



CHAPTEE XL 

Poisons Physical as well as Infectious. 

By these I understand all those substances which, 
even in small quantity, are capable of producing very 
prejudicial or destructive effects on the human body. 
Of these there is a great abundance in nature, and of 
various kinds. Some act violently, others secretly; 
some suddenly, others slowly ; some externally, others 
internally; some visibly, others invisibly; and it can- 
not be denied that they may be classed among the most 
general and the most dangerous enemies of life. 

I consider it, therefore, very necessary, as an essential 
part of that universal knowledge which ought to be 
cultivated among mankind, that every one should learn 
to know and to guard against these poisons ; because 
people otherwise may, through mere ignorance and in- 
attention, be liable to be poisoned a thousand ways. 
Animals have instinct to enable them to distinguish and 
to avoid poisons ; man has reason and experience ; but 
these, in this respect, are far from being sufficiently em- 
ployed. My object, therefore, here, is to give mankind 
such a comprehensive knowledge and conception of 
their danger as may induce them to guard against these 
enemies of life. 

It is a very hurtful prejudice that people, in common, 



192 MEANS WHICH SHORTEN LIFE. 

consider nothing as poisonous but what can be received 
through the mouth. On the contrary, we may be 
poisoned externally, as well as internally, through every 
part of our bodies, so far as they have absorbing vessels; 
through the mouth and stomach, through the whole 
superficies of the skin, the nostrils, the ears, and the 
lungs, by means of bad air. The only difference is, 
that the effects, in many parts, take place slowly ; in 
others, rapidly; and that many kinds of poison have 
an effect, in particular, upon one part, and some upon 
another. 

I divide poisons in general into two classes, physical 
and contagious ; the latter of which are distinguished 
by their being generated in a living body, and possess- 
ing the power of communicating themselves to another. 

Among "physical poisons, a knowledge of the follow- 
ing is particularly necessary: 

Arsenic, better known under the name of rat-poison, 
is the most violent of all. The smallest dose (five or 
six grains) is sufficient to destroy a person with the 
most excruciating torture. Numberless are the in- 
stances of people having suffered a severe death from 
it, but rather through ignorance and carelessness than 
through intention. I am of opinion, therefore, that it 
would be much better if this horrid poison were en- 
tirely banished ; especially as it is of so little use, and 
is employed almost for nothing else than to kill rats 
and mice. At any rate, it ought not to be kept by 
grocers and apothecaries near drawers where there is 
coffee, sugar, or any articles used as food. In the mean- 
time, I consider it as my duty to call the public atten- 
tion to a few ways in which poisoning by arsenic may 
very easily be possible; in which it often happens; and 
to warn mankind against them. One of the most fre- 
quent is, when it is used to destroy vermin. If one re- 



I 



POISONOUS METALLIC SALTS. 193 

fleets how many people have heen deprived of exist- 
ence by poison destined for mice, this practice ought 
to be altogether abandoned. Let not any one imagine 
that all danger may be prevented by great caution. I 
know an instance where some sweet milk, standing in 
a cellar, was poisoned by mice who had used some of it 
after eating rat-poison. It is much safer to employ for 
the same purpose poison-nuts {Nux vomica) ; which are 
far less hurtful to man, but at the same time are a strong 
poison for animals. Another kind of poisoning with 
arsenic, less observed, is that by means of arsenical 
colors. Painters by profession know how to secure 
themselves against it; but amateurs and children should 
be very cautious in using such colors, and at any rate 
avoid that bad practice of drawing the brush through 
their mouth. Equally dangerous are toys painted with 
these colors, which ought never to be allowed. Lastly, 
I advise every one to guard against a method of poison- 
ing with arsenic which is practised by quacks and 
mountebanks. These impostors sell abundance of drops, 
as a cure for the cold fever, which contain nothing but 
arsenic. They indeed often cure the disease immedi- 
ately ; but they occasion consumption afterwards, and 
other fatal consequences. Let people, for Heaven's 
sake, avoid all such arcana. 

A poison no less dreadful is lead. It is, perhaps, so 
far more terrible, as it acts more secretly as well as 
more slowly ; does not discover itself immediately, by 
such violent effects ; and because people may be com- 
pletely ruined by it, before it is known that they are 
poisoned. With this substance, in particular, poison- 
ing is possible several ways, which the greater part of 
the public have never remarked, and against which I 
must here put them on their guard. In the first place, 
when people daily swallow with their food and drink 

17 



194 MEANS WHICH SHORTEN LIFE. 

some portion of lead, the most dreadful symptoms, im- 
possible to be cured, may at length break out, often 
even at the end of some years. This happens when 
victuals are dressed in vessels made of tin, which con- 
tains much lead, or in such as are badly glazed ; or 
when one drinks wine adulterated with lead. Another 
very usual method of poisoning is by painting the face 
with white lead, using washes made from lead, &c. All 
paints are prejudicial, but chiefly the white, because 
the whole of them almost contain white lead; and the 
leaden particles may be conveyed into our bodies, as 
well through the skin as through the stomach. Lastly, 
poisoning by means of apartments newly painted with 
white lead, or oil-varnish, ought not to be forgotten. 
Whoever inhabit these too soon, may, in particular, re- 
ceive the poison into their lungs, and become hectic and 
asthmatic. 

To the same class belong, also, quicksilver^ antimony^ 
and p?^eparations of copper ; which ought all to be consid- 
ered as noxious poisons, and which should be guarded 
against, particularly the last, in regard to cooking vic- 
tuals in copper vessels. Even the greater part of neu- 
tral salts, when used in too great quantity at once, and 
not sufficiently dissolved in water, may be attended 
with poisonous efl'ects. I have met with some instances 
where an ounce, or an ounce-and-a-half of alum or salt- 
petre, taken at once, instead of Glauber's salts, excited 
every symptom of the most violent poison, and which 
could not be removed but with difficulty. 

The vegetable kingdom contains a multitude of poi- 
sons, which partly occasion death by torpor, such as 
opium and deadly nightshade ; and partly by burning 
and inflammation; as mezej^eonixnd euphorbium. Great 
mistakes are committed here, also, through inattention. 
Numberless are the instances where people, instead of 



POISONOUS PLANTS AND AIR. 195 

chervil (chcenopodium) for salad, have used hemlock; 
instead of parsnips, have eaten the roots of henbane ; 
instead of common mushrooms, poisonous fungi; or 
used the berries of the nightshade, mezereon, &c., by 
which they brought on death. In every seminary of 
learning, therefore, a sufficient knowledge of all the 
poisonous plants growing in the neighborhood should 
be taught. 

The poisonous plants most pernicious, and which it is 
most necessary to know and guard against, are the bella- 
donna ; hemlock (cicuta); henbane (Jiyoscyamus)) wolfs- 
bane (aconitum) ; foxglove {digitalis) ) nightshade (sola- 
num) ', darnel (lolium temulentum) ; mezereon (Daphne) ; 
several sorts of the ranunculus; poisonous lettuce (lac- 
tuca virosa) ; and the IsLwrel-cherry (laurocerasus). To 
these belong also bitter almonds, which, according to 
the latest experiments, contain a deadl^^ poison, not in- 
ferior to that of the laurel. 

The air even, in which we live, can be poisoned so as 
to destroy us either suddenly or secretly. I shall here 
speak, in the first place, of that poison which we our- 
selves communicate to the atmosphere by living and 
breathing. Living beings consume, in a certain quan- 
tity of air, that pure substance which we call vital air 
(oxygen); and, in place of it, give back an impure sub- 
stance (carbonic acid gas) not fit for breathing. If a 
great multitude of people are shut up in a small space, 
death may soon be the consequence.* If the space be 
larger, and the number less, though death may not en- 
sue, the effects may be still prejudicial. All places, 



* This is sufficiently proved by the dreadful instance which 
happened in the black hole at Calcutta, where, of 146 Englishmen, 
confined scarcely twelve hours, 123 were destroyed by the air be- 
ing thus poisoned. 



196 MEANS WHICH SHORTEN LIFE. 

therefore, where numerous bodies of people are crowded 
together, ought to be avoided ; particularly when they 
have not a sufficient height or free passage for the air. 
This is most frequently the case in playhouses. One 
of the surest signs of the air being poisoned, is when 
the lights will no longer burn clear and readily, or here 
and there go out of themselves. In an equal degree is 
it then unfit for life, because fire and life require the 
same part of the air for their support. Those who 
keep their sitting apartments or bed-chambers always 
closely shut, expose themselves to a slow poisoning of 
the like kind. In the same manner may the air be 
poisoned when a great many lights are kept burning 
in a close room. And the case is the same when one 
sleeps in a close bed-chamber where coals are burning, 
by which death is often the consequence. When one 
keeps in a close bed-chamber, during night, a great 
many plants and shrubs, the air experiences a similar 
kind of poisoning ; while, on the other hand, the same 
plants, in the daytime, and exposed to the sun, render 
the air more pure and wholesome. Evaporation from 
putrid substances is capable of producing the like effect. 
The strong smelling effluvia of flowers can communicate 
to the air, in close apartments, a pernicious, and even 
a deadly quality also ; and therefore it is not proper to 
keep in one's bed-chamber strong-scented flowers such 
as the narcissus, roses, &c. 

But far more important and dangerous appear to me 
the class of infectious poisons, to which I now proceed ; 
and I earnestly request that my readers will pay the 
utmost attention to the observations I shall make re- 
specting them. Concerning physical poisons, people 
may always procure information : there are works 
which treat of them ; they are known, and consequently 
can be avoided. With infectious poisons the case is 



INFECTIOUS POISONS. 197 

quite different. They have been overlooked, as un- 
avoidable and necessary evils ; they have not been much 
considered as poisons, but in regard to the diseases 
which they occasion; people poison, and are poisoned; 
and this dreadful secret trade is carried on daily and 
hourly, without men knowing or reflecting what they 
are about. Physical poisons, as is proper, have been 
subjected to police laws : the state takes care that they 
shall be carefully kept, and that the use of them be 
limited; and those who wilfully administer them to 
others, are treated as criminals, and punished. The 
infectious poisons, on the other hand, are restrained by 
no laws, by no police ordinances; they exercise their 
ravages among us without interruption ; the husband 
poisons the wife, the son the father; and no one takes 
any trouble to remedy this evil. Lastly, physical poi- 
sons hurt only the individual ; whereas the infectious 
possess the peculiar power of reproducing themselves 
in every living being, and of multiplying without end j 
they injure, therefore, not only those poisoned, but 
render them new sources by which whole neighborhoods 
and districts may be infected. 

I could here produce the most melancholy instances 
of men who merely through ignorance were poisoned 
in this manner; and of some who infected others, even 
their nearest friends, because they were unacquainted 
with these poisons, and the way in which they are 
propagated. I, therefore, consider a knowledge on this 
subject so necessary, and so defective among the public, 
that I with pleasure embrace the present opportunity 
of saying something upon it, which may be of general 
utility. 

Infectious poisons are such as can be no otherwise 
generated than in a living body; and which possess the 
power of reproducing themselves when communicated 

17* 



198 MEANS WHICH SHORTEN LIFE. 

to another, and of giving rise to the same corruption 
and disease which prevailed in the former. Each class 
of animals has one peculiar to itself, and which does not 
take any effect upon another. Thus mankind have 
some which do not attack animals : for example, the 
small-pox.* Animals, on the other hand, are susceptible 
of some which do not affect men : as the disease among 
horned cattle, and the glanders among horses.f I am 
acquainted with only one peculiar to men as well as 
animals, and that is the poison of canine madness. 

A very remarkable difference between these poisons 
is, that some of them never appear again without fresh 
external infection; as, the small-pox, measles, and 
plague : while others may be again produced, without 
infection, merely by corruption, and certain changes 
which take place in animal bodies; and among the 
latter class are the putrid fevers. It has, therefore, 
been often asked. Whence did the poisons of the first 
class arise ? And, indeed, it is difficult to answer this 
question. The analogy of the latter class, however, 
allows us to suppose that they were first generated in 
the human body, but through so rare a concurrence of 
external as well as internal circumstances that thousands 
of years, perhaps, must be necessary before the same 
thing can again happen. It hence follows, that these 
poisons, as they must always, in order to continue, be 
produced in a human body, may again cease, as soon 
as they have been deprived, either by accident or pre- 
cautionary regulations, of an opportunity to regenerate. 

* The small-pox is met with in sheep ; and the cow-pox is now 
recognized as the small-pox of the cow. In my work on " Diseases 
of the Skin" I have recorded examples of human small-pox being 
communicated to cows. — Editor. 

f Glanders is now too well known to be communicable to man, 
and to give rise in him to a virulent and fatal disorder. — Editor; 



INFECTIOUS POISONS. 199 

A consoling reflection, on which the extirpation, or at 
least banishment of them from certain districts depends ; 
and of the truth of which we may be convinced by 
finding that some of these poisons, such as those of the 
plague and leprosy, have, by wise establishments, been 
driven from among civilized nations. But this conse- 
quence is also equally well founded, that, by a new 
concurrence of uncommon circumstances and corruption 
in the bodies of animals, an entirely new poison of the 
like kind, hitherto unknown in the world, may be again 
created. 

Before all these kinds of poison, however, can have 
effect, there is necessarily not only a communication or 
infection from without, but also a certain disposition or 
sensibility of the body. Hence that remarkable phe- 
nomenon, that many can be poisoned very easily, some 
with difficulty, and many not at all : nay, that many of 
these poisons can affect us only once, because, by being 
once poisoned, the whole sensibility of the body, in re- 
gard to the infection, is destroyed ; as we find to be the 
case in the small-pox and measles. 

Infection may apparently be communicated in a great 
variety of ways; but it is always confined to this simple 
principle, that immediate contact ivith the poison is neces- 
sary before it can be conveyed to another. This, however, 
must be properly understood. One may come into 
immediate contact with the poison, either by touching 
the body of a diseased person, or any other body with 
which the poison is united, or to which it has attached 
itself; as for example, clothes, furniture, &c. A few 
poisons of this kind have the property of diffusing them- 
selves through the atmosphere, as those of the small-pox, 
measles, and putrid fevers; but this contaminated air 
remains poisonous only in the neighborhood of the 
diseased, or, in other words, the atmosphere only around 



200 MEANS WHICH SHORTEN LIFE. 

the diseased person is poisonous. If it be, however, 
mixed with and thinned by purer air, like every other 
poisonous solution, it ceases at length to have a poison- 
ous eifect; that is to say, the poison cannot be conveyed 
by the atmosphere to any great distance. 

My principal view here is to enable that part of the 
public unacquainted with physic to guard against these 
poisons ; or, what cannot be a matter of indifference to 
any person of benevolence, to avoid communicating the 
poison to others when one is infected. I shall, therefore, 
first, give a few rules how people may secure themselves 
from infection in general ; and then treat singly of those 
kinds of poison which appear most commonly among 
us, and show how they may be distinguished and 
avoided. 

The best means by which people, in general, may 
secure themselves from infection of every kind, consist 
in the following rules : 

1st. Pay the utmost attention to cleanliness; for the 
greater part of the poisons of this kind are conveyed to 
JUS through the external surface of our bodies: and it is 
fully proved, that poison, already communicated, has 
been by cleanliness removed before it could actually 
produce any bad effect. I here allude, in particular, to 
frequent washing, bathing, rinsing the mouth, combing 
the hair, and often changing the linen, clothes, and bed. 

2d. Be careful to admit pure air into your apart- 
ments, to enjoy the free air often, and to give the body 
proper exercise. By these means, one will preserve the 
perspiration and vital powers of the skin ; and the more 
active these are, the less danger is to be apprehended 
from external infection. 

3d. Let people endeavor to keep themselves in good 
spirits, and preserve serenity of mind. Such a disposi- 
tion is best calculated to support the counteracting 



PREMATURE OLD AGE. 201 

power of the body, free perspiration, and the outward 
tendency of the juices, by which the catching of infec- 
tion is much prevented. This rule is particularly to be 
recommended where putrid fevers prevail ; and there 
also a glass of good wine may be serviceable. 

4th. Avoid coming into close contact with people the 
physical state of whose bodies you do not perfectly 
know; and in particular beware of touching them with 
parts which have no skin, or one exceedingly delicate 
and tender; such as wounds, the lips; as, by these, 
infection is soonest imbibed. Of the like nature is the 
touching of substances which a little before may have 
been used by others. 

5th. When infectious diseases are prevalent in any 
district, I would strongly advise people not to go abroad 
at night, because one imbibes infection much more 
readily in the night than in the daytime. 



CHAPTEE XIL 

Old Age. Premature Ingrafting of it on Youth. 

This is the most unavoidable of all those means that 
tend to shorten life. It is a secret thief, as Shakspeare 
calls it, the necessary consequence of life itself: for, by 
the vital process, our vessels must become gradually 
more desiccated and unfit for use, our juices more acrid 
and less, the smaller vessels shrivelled, the organs in- 
capable of performing their functions; and the earthy 
part, the surest means of our destruction, must gain a 
superiority. 

It cannot, therefore, be altogether prevented. The 



202 MEANS WHICH SHORTEN LIFE. 

question only will be : Is it in our power to bring it on 
sooner or later? And, unfortunately, this question 
must be answered in the affirmative. Modern times 
afford us astonishing instances of the possibility of 
bringing on premature old age, and of causing the 
periods of life to follow each other much more rapidly. 
We may see at present, particularly in great cities, men 
come to maturity in their eighth year ; in their sixteenth, 
attain to the highest point possible of their perfection ; 
in their twentieth struggling with every infirmity, a 
proof that they are already on the decline; and in their 
thirtieth, have every appearance of exhausted age, such 
as wrinkles, dryness and stiffness of the joints, a crooked 
spine, loss of sight and memory, gray hair, and a tremu- 
lous voice. I once dissected the body of such an arti- 
ficial old man, who had scarcely attained the age of 
forty ; and found not only his hair gray, but the carti- 
lages of the ribs, which do not become bones until the 
greatest age, totally ossified. 

One, therefore, can imitate by art, in our climates, 
that hastening of the periods of expansion as well as of 
old age, which, in warm countries, take place naturally. 

I must now say a few words on the art of ingrafting 
old age on youth. This is done by weakening very 
early the vital power as w^ell as the juices, and giving 
to the vessels the highest possible degree of hardness, 
stiffness, and want of pliability, which characterizes 
old age. 

I shall here lay before my readers the surest means 
to accomplish this, as it is of importance to know such 
prescriptions, in order that people may be better en- 
abled to counteract them. If one, therefore, will only 
live altogether contrary to the following rules, one may 
be enabled to preserve one's self in a state of youth to 
an advanced period of life. 



I 



PREMATURE OLD AGE. 208 

1st. Endeavor, by every art physical and moral, to 
attain to maturity as speedily as possible, and waste the 
vital power with as much profusion as possible. 

2d. Begin very early to expose yourself to the ut- 
most fatigue. Forced journeys of several days, con- 
tinual dancing, sitting up all night, and shortening 
every period of rest, will, in this respect, be of most 
service. By these means you will accomplish two ob- 
jects, that of speedily exhausting the vital power, and 
that of making the vessels soon hard and brittle. 

3d. Drink abundance of wine and strong liquors. 
This is an excellent prescription to desiccate the body, 
and to make it become shrivelled. 

4th. Care, fear, and sorrow, are extraordinarily well 
calculated to bring on, very early, every characteristic 
of old age. We have instances of persons acquiring gray 
hair in the course of one night spent under the highest 
degree of grief and terror. Now, one might believe 
that certain causes are absolutely necessary to produce 
these affections : but there are people who understand, 
in a masterly manner, the art of seeing everything in 
a melancholy light, of dreading some evil from every 
man, and of finding in the most common circumstance 
abundant matter to excite wretchedness and misery. 

5th. That system, carried too far, or at least badly 
understood, of hardening the organs by the means of 
cold, bathing frequently and for a long time in cold 
water ; nothing can be more proper to produce every 
symptom of age. 

But it is not enough that people now attain old age 
in a period during which our ancestors were still young : 
they unfortunately go farther. They have found out 
the art of bringing into the world children with old 
age upon them. Such phenomena I have sometimes 
seen. These shrivelled beings enter upon the stage of 



204 MEANS WHICH SHORTEN LIFE. 

life with the strongest features of age; and, after two 
weeks spent amidst misery and crying, they close their 
aged life, or rather begin existence by ending it. But 
I shall draw a veil over these horrid productions of 
parental dissipation, which appear to me like the em- 
bodied sins of the parents. 



PAET THE THIRD. 

MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 



CHAPTEE L 

Good Physical Descent. 

If we take a retrospective view of the principles on 
which longevity depends, and the properties necessary 
for promoting it, we shall readily perceive that much 
in particular will depend on the mass from which we 
are formed; what quantity of vital power is communi- 
cated to us at our creation; and whether a foundation 
be then laid for a strong or a weak constitution, a sound 
or a diseased structure of the vital organs. All this is 
intimately connected with a healthful state of our pa- 
rents, and the important point of our first existence ; 
and in that sense, to be of good birth is what ought to 
be wished in regard to every man. It commonly be- 
longs to those unknown yet important benefits which 
we receive ; and is a means of prolonging life. This 
advantage, however, we are not able to procure to our- 
selves ; but we have it in our power, and it is our duty, 
to communicate it to others. 

Three points are here to be considered ; the state of 
health in which the parente are ; the moment of genera- 
tion; and the period of pregnancy. 

13 



206 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

iBt. The state of health, or the vital stock of the parents. 
— How important this is may be seen by the instance 
of whole families in which longevity has been as it 
were a privilege; like the family of the before-men- 
tioned Parr, who not only attained to a great age him- 
self, but also his father and children. In the longevity 
of parents lies a great ground for enabling their chil- 
dren to attain to the same. This, therefore, ought to 
be a powerful motive to induce those who intend to 
have children to spare and preserve their vital power 
as much as possible. We are a copy of our parents, 
not merely in regard to the common form and texture, 
but in respect to particular weakness and faults of sin- 
gle parts. A foundation even for diseases which have 
their root in our structure and constitution, may be 
thus communicated. I am convinced, above all, by re- 
peated experience, that great weakening of the consti- 
tution by early excesses, communicates to children a 
peculiar weakness of the glandular and lymphatic sys- 
tem, which ends in the scrofula, as it is called; and oc- 
casions this disease to appear in the first months of 
life, or even at the very birth. The too youthful or 
too great age of parents is likewise prejudicial to the 
strength and vital duration of the children. 

2d. The moment of generation. — This is of much more 
importance than commonly believed, and has great in- 
fluence, both in a moral and physical view, on the life 
of the future being. The first germ of a new creature 
is here quickened ; the first vital power is communi- 
cated to it. How much must the perfection or imper- 
fection of the produce be determined by a perfect or 
imperfect, sound or diseased condition, of the active 
causes? Is it not to be wished that parents would 
pay some attention to this femark, and never forget 
that the above moment is of the utmost importance • 



GOOD PHYSICAL DESCENT. 207 

that it is the moment of creation ; and that Nature, 
not without reason, has connected with it the highest 
exaltation of our existence ? However difficult it may 
be to collect observations from experience on this sub- 
ject, I have known some undeniable instances where 
children, begotten in the moment of intoxication, re- 
mained stupid and idiots during their whole life. Now 
what can be effected by the highest extremity, may be 
done, on a small scale, by a mean degree ; and why 
should it not be admitted, that a being procreated at 
the period of ill-humor, bodily indisposition, or nervous 
debility, may carry with it, during its whole existence, 
some small particles of these evils? Hence the evident 
preference of the child of love to the children of duty. 
In my opinion, therefore, it is of the utmost impor- 
tance, even in the married state, that this moment 
should be confined to a period when the sensation of 
collected powers, ardent passion, and a mind cheerful 
and free from care, invites to it on both sides ; and this 
forms a new ground against the too frequent, forced, 
or mechanical enjoyment of wedded love. 

3d. The period of pregnancy. — Though the father, 
without doubt, is the original source from which the 
future being acquires its first quickening, its earliest 
breath of life, the general mass and most material part 
proceeds entirely from the mother. The latter is the 
soil from which the seed derives its juices; and the 
future constitution, the proper substance of the child, 
must principally assume the character of that being of 
whom it makes so long a part, and of whose flesh and 
blood it is actually composed. Besides, not only the 
constitution of the mother, but also other favorable or 
unfavorable causes, during the time of pregnancy, must 
have a great influence on the whole formation and the 
life of the being. This is confirmed by experience. 



208 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

The child's state of health, and the greater or less 
strength of its constitution, are determined, in a partic- 
ular manner, much more according to the condition of 
the mother, than that of the father. By a weakly father 
a robust child can always be produced, provided the 
mother have a sound and vigorous body. The substance 
of the father is, as it were, in her ennobled. On the 
other hand, the strongest man will never obtain a lively, 
healthy child from a mother who is weak and sickly. 

With regard to the protection of the child during 
pregnancy against all dangers and hurtful effects, we 
find a regulation which displays the jorovident care of 
Divine Wisdom. Though the most intimate connection 
subsists between it and the mother, and though for 
nearly a year it forms a part of her, and partakes of 
her nourishment and juices, it is secured not only 
against accidental injuries by its situation and floating 
in a watery element, but also against moral and ner- 
vous impressions by there being no nervous connection 
between it and the mother. We have, therefore, 
numerous instances of the mother dying, while the 
child continued alive. Nature has even conjoined with 
this state a certain immunity from sickness; and it is 
a principle established by experience, that a pregnant 
woman suffers much less from infectious and other 
causes of disease; and that a female has never a 
greater probability of living than while in that con- 
dition. 

So much have mankind been at all times impressed 
with the importance of this period, that among ancient 
nations a pregnant woman was considered as a person 
sacred and secure from injury, and that every one who 
hurt or ill-treated her was thought deserving of double 
punishment. Our age, unfortunately, has here made a 
difference, both in a physical and a political view. The 



GOOD PHYSICAL DESCENT. 209' 

weak-nerved, sensible, and delicate constitution of the 
female sex, at present, renders the preservation of the 
fruit in the mother's womb much more uncertain and 
dangerous. The womb of the mother is no longer a place 
of safety, the undisturbed atelier of Nature. Through 
that unnatural sensibility which is now so peculiar to a 
great part of our women, they have become far more 
susceptible of a thousand prejudicial effects, a multitude 
of passions ; and the fruit suffers by every mental affec- 
tion, every alarm, every cause of disease, and even by the 
most trifling accident. It is, therefore, impossible that 
a child, in a place where its formation and expansion 
are every moment interrupted and disturbed, should ac- 
quire that degree of perfection and strength to which 
it was destined. And yet, little attention do mankind 
pay, either in a civil or political point of view, to the 
importance of this condition. Who thinks, at present, 
of the sacredness of a pregnant woman; or who regu- 
late their behaviour to her by reflecting that the life, 
or at any rate the physical and moral formation, of a 
future being may thereby be endangered ? Nay, how 
few pregnant women take that care of this condition 
which it deserves! and how few are able to deny them- 
selves that pleasure and those gratifications which may 
be attended with mischief! 

In my opinion, therefore, the following rules may, 
with great propriety, be founded on these observations : 

1st. Such highly weak-nerved and sensible people 
ought never to marry; if not through a regard for 
themselves, and on account of the sufferings which they 
may thereby avoid, at any rate out of compassion for 
the miserable race of which they would be the authors. 
In the education of daughters, people above all things 
should be attentive to guard against this unfortunate 
sensibility; because, from a regard for the complexion, 

18* 



210 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

for appearance, and a multitude of other points which 
belong merely to etiquette, a contrary conduct is ob- 
served. And lastly, it is the duty of every man, when 
he chooses a wife, to be particularly careful that her 
nervous system be not too irritable. Should this be 
the case, the principal object of marriage, to produce 
sound and robust children, is entirely lost. 

2d. Women ought to pay more attention to this 
period, and to observe a good moral as well as physical 
regimen ; for they have then in their power the degree 
of i^erfection or imperfection, of the good or bad struc- 
ture, of the mind and body of their child. 

3d. Men in general should have respect for a preg- 
nant woman in this point of view; and, as the deposi- 
tary of a human being during its state of formation, treat 
her with every care, tenderness, and attention. Every 
husband, in particular, ought to make this a duty; and 
to reflect that he thereby watches over the life and 
health of his offspring, and deserves, in the fullest sense, 
the title of father. 



CHAPTEE II. 

Prudent Physical Education. 

The physical treatment during the two first years 
of existence is, in particular, a very important circum- 
stance in regard to j)rolongation of life. That period 
ought properly to be considered as a continued gener- 
ation. The first part only of formation and expansion 
takes place in the mother's womb ; the second, which 
is no less important, takes place externally during 



PRUDENT PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 211 

the two first years of life. A child comes into the 
world as a being only half finished. The most impor- 
tant and delicate expansion, that of the nerves and 
organs of the soul, the organs of respiration, the mus- 
cular system, the teeth, the bones, the organs of speech, 
and all the other parts, both in regard to form and 
structure, now follows. One may readily comprehend, 
therefore, what influence the different circumstances 
under which this continued process of formation and 
expansion is carried on, whether they act so as to im- 
pede, derange, and weaken, or to accelerate, must have 
on the perfection and duration of life. A foundation 
may certainly be here laid for slow or rapid consump- 
tion ; for a body exposed to more or to fewer dangers. 

All the precepts and rules respecting this period may 
be reduced to the following principles : 

1st. All the organs, but in particular those on which 
health and the duration of physical as well as spiritual 
life chiefly depend, must be completely formed, ex- 
ercised, and brought to the highest degree of perfection. 
Among these I reckon the stomach, the lungs, the sldii, 
the heart, the vascular system, and the organs of thought. 
A foundation maybe laid for good lungs, by pure open 
air; and afterwards by speaking, singing, running; for 
a sound stomach, by wholesome food, easy of digestion, 
but neither too strong and stimulating, nor too highly 
seasoned; for a sound skin, by cleanliness, washing, 
bathing, pure air, a temperature neither too hot nor 
too cold, and, afterwards, by exercise ; and for a strong- 
heart and vessels, by all the above means; in particu- 
lar, by wholesome nourishment, and afterwards by 
bodily motion, 

2d. The successive expansion of the physical and 
spiritual powers must be properly supported; and be 
neither impeded nor too much promoted. Attention 



212 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

must be always paid to a uniform distribution of the 
vital power: for harmony and equality in the motions 
are the foundation of health and life. Bathing and free 
air will contribute to this in the beginning, and after- 
wards bodily exercise. 

3d. The sensation of the body in regard to disease, 
that is to say, its susceptibility of the causes of disease, 
must be hardened and blunted; as also its sensation of 
cold and heat, and afterwards that of small irregulari- 
ties and fatigue. By these means two advantages will 
be gained; vital consumption, by the sensibility being 
moderated, will be lessened; and the derangement of it 
by diseases will be guarded against. 

4th. Every cause and germ of disease in the body 
must be removed and banished; such as accumulations 
of phlegm, obstructions of the mesentery, and sharp 
acrid humors; faults which may arise from external 
hurts and impressions, too confined bandages, want of 
strict cleanliness, &c. 

5th. The vital power itself must be always sufficiently 
nourished and strengthened, particularly by means of 
fresh air; and the healing power of nature must, above 
all things, be supported from the beginning, because it 
is the principal means which lies in ourselves for render- 
ing the causes of disease ineffectual. This may be done 
chiefly b}^ not accustoming the body at first too much 
to artificial assistance ; otherwise Nature will be so used 
that she will depend on foreign aid, and at length lose 
altogether the power of assisting herself. 

6th. The whole operation of life and vital consump- 
tion must not at first be put into too great activity, but 
be preserved in a moderate state; by which means its 
tone may be regulated for the whole life, and also for 
a slow and a long life. 

The following simple means, which, in my opinion, 



PRUDENT PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 213 

form the principal part of physical education, may 
serve for accomplishing what is contained in the above 
precepts. 

We must here, however, distinguish two periods. 
The first period is from birth to the end of the second 
year; and the chief points to be observed are as follows : 

I. The nourishment must be good, but suited to that 
tender age; easy of digestion, rather fluid than solid; 
fresh and sound; nutritive, but not too strong, stimula- 
ting, or heating. 

Nature, here, is our best guide; as she has destined 
milk to be the earliest food of man. Milk possesses all 
the above qualities, in the most perfect degree; it is full 
of nutritive substance, but mild and nourishing, without 
being heating or stimulating: it holds a mean rank be- 
tween animal and vegetable food; unites the advantage 
of the latter, that of being less stimulating than flesh, 
with all the advantages of flesh: that is to say, its being 
already assimilated to us by preparation in a living ani- 
mal body, which makes it more easily assume the char- 
acter of our substance : and, in a word, it is altogether 
suited to the nature of an infant. 

The body of a child lives quicker than that of a full- 
grown man, and changes oftener its component parts. 
Besides, it requires nourishment, not merely for its 
support, but for its continual growth, which is never so 
rapid during the whole course of life as the first year. 
It is evident, therefore, that it has occasion for abun- 
dance of concentrated nourishment; but as its powers 
of digestion are weak, it is not able to prepare and as- 
similate food that is so solid or heterogeneous to its na- 
ture; such, for example, as vegetables. Its nourishment 
must then be fluid, and already animalized; that is, be 
])repared and rendered like its nature in another ani- 
mal body. It has, however, a great degree of irritabil- 



214 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

ity and sensibility; so that a small irritation, which a 
grown-up person would scarcely feel, may in it produce 
an artificial fever, or the cramp and convulsions. The 
nourishment of a child must on this account be mild, 
and exactly suited to its irritability. 

I consider it, therefore, as one of the first laws of 
Nature, and a principal ground for a long and healthy 
life, that a child should he nourished^ during the whole of 
the first year, by the milk of its mother, or of a sound nuj'se. 
From this law of Nature people in modern times 
make many deviations, which undoubtedly have the 
most prejudicial influence on the duration of life and 
health, and which I must therefore here mention. 

Some have attempted to nourish and educate children 
by slimy vegetable substances. These sometimes, and 
in particular cases, may be useful, but without any 
other food, are certainly hurtful ; for they do not afford 
sufficient nourishment, and, what is worse, do not be- 
come properly animalized, and retain still a part of 
their sour vegetable nature in the body of the child. 
Such food, therefore, produces weak, meagre children, 
continually tormented with acidities at the stomach, 
sour eructations, phlegm, obstruction in the glands, 
and the scrofula. 

Still worse is the custom of nourishing children with 
flour-pap ; for this food, besides the disadvantage of its 
acid nature, as being a vegetable aliment, obstructs the 
tender lacteal vessels, and those of the mesentery; and 
lays a certain foundation for the scrofula and consump- 
tion of the lungs. 

Others, to avoid these evils, and partly through an- 
glomania, make choice of flesh nutriment for their chil- 
dren, and give them wine, beer, and other things of the 
like kind. This prejudice deserves in particular to be 
reprobated, because it seems daily to gain more advo- 



PRUDENT PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 215 

Gates, because it agrees with the exciting method so 
much approved at present, and because the mischief it 
occasions is not always sufficiently attended to by phy- 
sicians. People say, in common, flesh is strengthening; 
and that is precisely what a child requires. But the 
grounds on which I found a contrary opinion are as 
follows: There must always be a certain relation be- 
tween the nourishment and the body to be nourished, 
between the irritation and the irritability. The greater 
the irritability, the stronger the efi'ect which may be 
produced by a small irritation ; the smaller the former, 
the effect of the latter will be so much weaker. Now, 
this irritability in human life is always in an inverse 
ratio to the age. In the first period of life it is strong- 
est J and it every year becomes weaker, until it is en- 
tirely extinguished by old age. We may therefore say 
that milk, in regard to its irritating and strengthen- 
ing power, is as exactly proportioned to a child, as 
flesh to an adult, or wine to an old man. But if one 
give flesh nourishment to a child too soon, one gives 
it an irritation like that occasioned by wine to grown- 
up persons, which is much too strong, and not destined 
for it by Nature. The consequences are, that a kind 
of artificial fever is produced and kept up in the child, 
that the circulation of the blood is accelerated, its 
warmth increased, and that a habit with a tendency 
to violent inflammatory disorders is created. Such a 
child has a full blooming look; but the slightest cause 
may occasion a violent commotion in the blood ; and 
when it arrives at the period of teething, or if attacked 
by the small-pox, or any other kind of fever, when the 
tendency of the blood to the head is so strong, one may 
rest assured that some inflammatory disorder, convul- 
sions, or apoplexy will ensue. People in general be- 
lieve that one can die only through weakness; but 



216 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

one may die also through too much strength and irri- 
tation ; and this may take place by the injudicious use 
of irritating things. Besides, by giving such strong 
nourishment to children, one accelerates, from the be- 
ginning, their vital operation and consumption; the 
whole system and organs are put into too great activ- 
ity: a foundation is originally laid for a more vigorous 
but a quicker life ; and under the idea of strengthening, 
one really establishes the principal cause of a short life. 
One also ought not to forget that, by this early use of 
flesh nourishment, the expansive process of teething, 
and afterwards that of manhood, are hastened too 
much, a great means of shortening life ; and that it has 
a bad influence on the whole character. All carnivor- 
ous men and animals are violent, cruel, and passionate ; 
while on the other hand, the use of vegetable food in- 
clines men more to mildness and humanity. This I 
have often found confirmed by experience. Children 
who had used flesh too early, and in too great quantity, 
became always strong men, but passionate, violent, and 
brutal; and I very much doubt whether such a dispo- 
sition be fortunate, either for the individuals, or for 
mankind in general. There are certainly cases in 
which the early use of flesh nourishment may be use- 
ful, particularly for weak children, educated without 
the mother's milk, and who suffer from acidities ; but 
it is then to be considered as a medicine, and must be 
regulated and the quantity determined by a physician. 
What I have said respecting flesh is applicable still 
more to wine, coff'ee, chocolate, spiceries, and the like. 
It is, therefore, a very important rule, in regard to the 
physical education of children, that a child, during the 
first half year, should taste no flesh, no flesh soups, no 
beer, and no coflJ'ee; but be nourished merely by the 
milk of its mother. In the second half year, light 



I 



PRUDENT PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 217 

soups may be admitted ; but flesh itself ought never to 
be given till the teeth have appeared, — that is, till the 
end of the second year. 

But as many insuperable circumstances may occur 
to prevent a child from being educated in the natural 
manner in which it ought; such, for example, as the 
nervous weakness of the mother, or her sickly asth- 
matic state, by which the child would lose more than 
it could gain in regard to its vital duration ; and if a 
sound nurse cannot be procured, the melancholy neces- 
sity then arises of educating the child artificially ; and 
though this method is always injurious, in some measure, 
to the health as well as duration of life, it may be ren- 
dered less prejudicial by observing the following pre- 
cepts : Let the child, at least, where it is possible, de- 
rive its nourishment from its mother for the first fort- 
night, or month. One cannot imagine of how much 
benefit this is in the first period. As the best substi- 
tute for the mother's milk, sheep or ass's milk may be 
then given ; but always immediately after it has been 
milked, and while it jat retains its natural warmth. 
It would be still better to let the child suck the ani- 
mal. Should this be impracticable, let the child have 
a mixture of cow's milk and water, always lukewarm ; 
and fresh milk at least once every day. A remark of 
some importance here is, that one must not warm the 
milk (otherwise it assumes a certain character of acid- 
ity), but only the water which is added to it. With 
this artificial nourishment it is necessary to give, some- 
what sooner, pap made of biscuit, pounded very fine ; 
barley, sago, or saloop, boiled with half milk and water ; 
also light, but not fat, bouillis and egg water, that is, 
the yolk of an egg beat up in a pint of water and mixed 
with a little sugar. Potatoes during the two first years 
are prejudicial. However little I consider them un- 

19 



218 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

healthful in general, they are certainly too hard of di- 
gestion for so tender a stomach, as they are of a clam- 
my viscid nature. 

II. Let the child, after the third week (earlier in 
summer, but later in winter), enjoy the free air every 
day, and continue this practice without any interrup- 
tion on account of the weather. 

A perfect similarity prevails here between children 
and plants. Give the latter the richest nourishment 
and warmth, but deprive them of air and light, they 
will become pale, withered, and stunted, and at length 
die. The use of pure free air, and of the vital compo- 
nent parts which it contains, is a nourishment as indis- 
pensably necessary for the support of life as eating and 
drinking. I have known peoj^le who remained weak 
and pale-colored throughout their whole lives, because 
they were nurtured during their first years like plants 
in a hot-house ; whereas, on the other hand, the daily 
use of light and free air is the only means to produce a 
blooming complexion, and to communicate strength and 
energy sufficient to last one's whole life. This advan- 
tage also is of great importance, that a person is thereby 
enabled afterwards to bear, without injury, variations 
of heat and cold. 

It is most beneficial when the child enjoys the free 
air in a place covered with grass and trees, at a little 
distance from one's habitation. The enjoyment of air 
in the streets of a city is far less wholesome. 

III. Let the body of the child be washed daily with 
fresh cold water : a rule indispensably necessary for 
cleansing and invigorating the skin ; for strengthening 
the whole nervous system ; and for laying the founda- 
tion of a sound and long life. 

This practice of washing ought to commence at the 
birth ; but during the first week lukewarm water must 






PRUDENT PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 219 

be used : cold water ought to be employed afterwards, 
and it is of great importance that it be fresh drawn 
from a spring or running stream; for water contains 
fixed air which evaporates when it has stood any time, 
and which communicates to it a very strengthening 
quality. The child, however, must be washed speedily ; 
and its J)ody ought to be immediately rubbed and dried ; 
for slow bathing cools, but speedy friction warms. 
Lastly, it should not be washed when it just comes 
from bed, nor, in general, while it perspires. 

TV. Every week it ought to be bathed once or twice 
in tepid water, warmed to the temperature of new 
milk, or from 86° to 91° of Fahrenheit's thermometer. 

This excellent practice unites in it such an extraor- 
dinary number of virtues, and is at the same time so 
suited to the age of infancy, that I may call it a real 
arcanum for bringing to perfection and forming the 
future man. Cleansing and invigorating the skin, free 
but not accelerated expansion of the powers and or- 
gans, uniform circulation, harmonious acting in con- 
cert of the whole (the foundation of health), strength- 
ening the nervous system, moderating the too great 
irritability of the vessels and too rapid vital consump- 
tion, purifying the juices, are all its effects; and I can, 
with confidence, assert that I am acquainted with no 
assistant means of physical education which possess in 
so high a degree every requisite for laying the founda- 
tion of a long and healthful life. The bath must not 
consist entirely of boiled water, but of water fresh 
drawn from a well, to which some hot water, suffici- 
ent to bring it to a lukewarm temperature, has been 
added. In summer that water is best which has been 
warmed by the rays of the sun. The bathing should 
be continued, at this period of age, a quarter of an 



220 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

hour each time, and afterwards longer. It ought never 
to be used during the first hour after eating. 

Y. Be careful not to keep a child too warm : that is, 
avoid warm rooms, warm beds, and clothing. Keeping 
too warm increases irritability in a great degree, and 
gives occasion also to speedier vital consumption : it 
debilitates and relaxes the vessels, accelerates expan- 
sion, weakens and deadens the skin, disposes the body 
to continual perspiration, and thus renders it always 
liable to injury from cold. I consider it of great im- 
portance to accustom children to sleep from their in- 
fancy on mattresses made of horsehair, chafi*, or moss. 
These never acquire too much heat; have more elasti- 
city, and prevent too great tenderness. They oblige 
the child also, as they do not yield to pressure, to lie 
straight and extended; by which means they guard 
against overgrowth, and the premature excitement of 
their organic s^^stem. 

YI. Let the clothing be wide, in no manner confined ; 
and made of some substance not too warm to check 
perspiration, such as fur, but of stuff that can be often 
renewed or washed. Cotton is the best; and during 
the severity of winter, light woollen stuff's. Avoid all 
close bandages, stiff" stays, small shoes; for these may 
give occasion to disease which will afterwards shorten 
life. The head, from the fourth to the eighth week, 
must be kept quite bare ; but this ought to be deter- 
mined by the season of the year. 

YII. Pay the utmost attention to cleanliness ; that is, 
change the shirt daily; the clothing every week: the 
bed-clothes every month ; and remove every cause of 
noxious evaporation ; in particular, do not suff'er too 
many people to be in the nursery; and allow no clothes 
to be dried, or any foul linen to remain in it. Cleanli- 
ness for children is one-half of their life : the cleaner 



PRUDENT PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 221 

they are kept the more will they prosper and thrive. 
5y cleanliness alone, with very moderate nourishment, 
they may in a short time be rendered strong, vigorous, 
and lively; whereas, without cleanliness, even with the 
richest nourishment, they will continue sickly and weak. 
"Want of attention to this precept is the cause why so 
many children pine away and are consumed without 
any visible reason. Ignorant people imagine that they 
must be bewitched, or under the influence of some evil 
spirit ; but dirt alone is the demon by which they are 
tormented, and which in the end will undoubtedly de- 
stroy them. 

The second period is from the end of the second to the 
twelfth or fourteenth year ; and I here recommend the 
following precepts: 

I. Let the rules respecting cleanliness, washing with 
cold water, bathing, light clothing, and living in free 
air, be observed according to the foregoing directions. 

II. The food must not be too delicate and artificial, 
or too coarse. It will be best in this period to allow 
children a sufficient mixture of flesh and vegetables; 
and to accustom them to everything, but neither to eat 
too much nor too often. People may rest assured that, 
if they put in practice all the other rules respecting 
physical education, bodily exercise, and cleanliness, 
neither delicate nor coarse food will be requisite to 
make a child healthy. For the truth of this observa- 
tion we need only look at the children of rustics, who, 
without being fed according to medical precepts, are 
perfectly strong and sound. But one, indeed, ought 
not here, as is too often the case, to give a child rustic 
fare, and at the same time to indulge it with a soft 
feather bed, to confine it to the house, and accustom it 
to idleness ; nor to employ the cold bath, while a child, in 
other respects, is enervated by most delicate treatment. 

19* 



222 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

I cannot repeat too often what I have before said, that 
a principal point of education is to preserve a uniform 
tone, and not to unite two opposite methods of manage- 
ment. It will be quite sufficient if a child, during this 
period, is allowed four meals every day. The only 
things which it ought not to touch are spiceries, coffee, 
chocolate, seasoning, confections, fat, heavy puddings, 
and cheese.* For drink, nothing is better than water. 
In such places only where Nature has denied pure spring 
water, I allow children to be accustomed to beer. 

III. As bodily exercise now becomes an important 
part of j)hysical education, let a child spend the greater 
part of the day in gymnastic sports of every kind, and 
in the open air, where they are always most serviceable. 
This strengthens in an incredible degree; gives peculiar 
activity to the body, uniform diffusion to the powers 
and juices; and guards, in the surest manner, against 
faults in the growth and formation. 

lY. The powers of the mind must not be exerted 
too early. It is a great prejudice that people imagine 
they cannot make a child begin to learn too soon. But 
it is certain that a child may begin too soon, when that 
period is chosen during which Nature is still employed 
in forming the bodily powers and organs, and has need 
of all her strength for that purpose. This period ex- 
tends to the seventh year; and if a child be obliged at 
an earlier age to apply to learning, and be confined in 
a sitting posture, its body will be deprived of the no- 
blest part of its powers, which must be now wasted by 

* I cannot conceive Hufeland's reasons for objecting to cheese, 
unless, perchance, it were less well made in the eighteenth than in 
the nineteenth century. I regard it as a wholesome article of diet 
for children, and a good compromise between meat and vegetable 
diet. — Editor. 



" PRUDENT PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 223 

the business of thinking; and the consequences will be, 
a checking of the growth, imperfect formation of the 
limbs, muscular weakness, bad digestion, corrupt juices, 
the scrofula, and a preponderance of the nervous sys- 
tem in the whole machine which will become burden- 
some during life, by nervous affections, the hypochon- 
driasis, and evils of the like kind. Much, however, 
will here depend on the difference of constitution, and 
the greater or less vigor of mind ; but I earnestly re- 
quest that parents and others will in this respect pur- 
sue a method directly contrary to that usually followed. 
If a child show an early disposition for thinking and 
learning, one ought, instead of straining its powers the 
more, as is commonly the case, to prevent it from ap- 
plication till a later period; for such premature ripe- 
ness is generally a disease, at any rate an unnatural 
state, which ought rather to be checked than promoted, 
unless one wishes to breed up a monster of erudition 
rather than a sound healthful man. 

I must here remark, that a great many of the evils 
which attend too early study, may not arise so much 
from exerting the powers of the mind, as from confine- 
ment and sitting, and from the corrupted air of schools 
in which children are taught. At any rate, the weak- 
ening is thus doubled. I am fully persuaded that it 
would be much less injurious if children were made to 
perform their school business in the open air during the 
fine seasons ; and here, at the same time, would they 
have before them the book of Nature, which, supposing 
that the pupils are capable of reading and understand- 
ing it, is much more fit and proper for their first instruc- 
tion than all the books that ever were written or 
printed. 



224 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

CHAPTEE III. 

Active and Laborious Youth. 

It appears that all those who attained to a great age 
were men who, in their youth, had been much ac- 
customed to labor and fatigue ; such as soldiers, sailors, 
and day-laborers. I shall here mention only Mittelstadt^ 
that veteran of 112, who in his fifteenth year was a 
servant, and in his eighteenth a soldier; and who was 
present in all the Prussian wars, from the commence- 
ment of the monarchy. 

A youth spent in that manner, becomes the founda- 
tion of a long and a strong life, two ways : partly by 
giving the body that degree of strength and solidity 
which is necessary for its duration ; and partly by 
making that possible which principally contributes to 
promote happiness and longevity, advancement to a 
better and more agreeable situation. He who in his 
youth has every convenience and enjoyment in abund- 
ance hath nothing more to expect -, he is deprived of 
the best means of exciting and preserving the vital 
power, hope, and the prospect of a better condition. 
If he be condemned then with increasing years to 
poverty and difficulties, he finds himself doubly op- 
pressed ', and the duration of his life must be necessarily 
shortened. But in the transition from a state of misery 
to one more fortunate, lies a continual source of new 
joy, new vigor, and new life. In the like manner, the 
passage, with increasing years, from a raw, cold climate, 
to one more mild, contributes much to prolong life ; as 
also the change from a state of labor to one more con- 
venient and agreeable. 



ABSTINENCE FROM PHYSICAL LOVE. 225 



CHAPTEE lY. 

Abstinence from Physical Loye in Youth, and a too Early 
Assumption op the Married State. 

He who in Pleasure's downy arms 
Ne'er lost his health or youthful charms, 
A hero lives ; and justly can 
Exclaim, " In me behold a man I" 

He prospers like the slender reed 
Whose top waves gently o'er the mead ; 
And moves, such blessings virtue follow, 
In health and beauty an Apollo. 

That power divine, which him inspires, 
His breast with noblest passions fires ; 
These heavenwards soar with eagle-flight. 
And spurn the cold, dark realms of night. 

So full of majesty, a god, 
Shall earth alone be his abode ? 
With dignity he steps, he stands, 
And nothing fears ; for he commands. 

Like drops drawn from the crystal stream. 
His eyes with pearly brilliance beam ; 
With blushing signs of health o'erspread, 
His cheeks surpass the morning's red. 

The fairest of the female train 

For him shall bloom, nor bloom in vain: 

O happy she whose lips he presses I 

O happy she whom he caresses 1 Burger. 

There was a time when the German youth never 
thought of intimacy with the other sex till their twenty- 



226 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

fourth or twenty-fifth year ; and yet nothing was then 
known of the pernicious consequences of this chastity, 
nor of many other imaginary evils of which people now 
dream ; but these youths, increasing in strength as well 
as growth, became men, who by their size, excited the 
astonishment even of the Eomans. 

People now leave off at the period when these began. 
They imagine they can never soon enough throw off 
their chastity ; and young persons, long before their 
bodies are completely finished, begin to waste those 
powers which are destined for a higher use. The con- 
sequences are evident. These men become incomplete, 
half-formed beings; and at the period when our ances- 
tors began to employ those powers, they, in them, are 
generally exhausted ; they feel nothing but dejection 
and misery in their weakness ; and a stimulus of the 
utmost importance for seasoning life is to them forever 
lost. 

It is incredible how far prejudice in this respect may 
be carried, especially when it flatters our inclination. I 
once knew a man who seriously believed that there was 
no poison more prejudicial to the human body than con- 
tinence, and the consequence was, that he was an old 
man in his twentieth year, and in his twenty-fifth died 
of old age. 

The present age has fallen so much into the taste of 
the times of chivalry, that all romances must now as- 
sume that form in order to please; and one, indeed, 
cannot help admiring the great, noble, and resolute 
manner of thinking and acting of these old Germans. 
It appears that the more sensible we are how far we 
have degenerated from them, the more we are excited 
by their example, and the more we are inflamed with 
a desire to imitate their conduct. But what a happi- 
ness would it be if we did not think merely of the 



ABSTINENCE FROM PHYSICAL LOVE. 227 

object, but of the means to obtain it. That by which 
these people acquired so much courage, so great powers 
both of body and mind, their bold, firm, and resolute 
character, which made them real men in the utmost 
sense of the word, was, in particular, their strict con- 
tinence. The youth of these men was destined to 
great exploits and undertakings, not to voluptuousness 
and 'dissipation ; the physical propensity to love did 
not among them sink into mere animal enjoyment, but 
was exalted to a moral incitement to noble and heroic 
actions. Each bore in his heart the image of his be- 
loved object, whether real or imaginary ; and this ro- 
mantic love, this indissoluble attachment, was the 
shield of his continence and virtue, strengthened the 
powers of his body, and communicated to his mind 
courage and unalterable resolution, by continually di- 
recting his attention to his fair one smiling to him at a 
distance, and whose favor could be gained only by glo- 
rious achievements. However romantic these notions 
may be, I find, on closer examination, great wisdom in 
this use of physical love, one of the strongest motives 
by which human nature is actuated. How widely dif- 
ferent has the case become among us ! This propensity 
which by prudent management may be made the germ 
of the most exalted virtue, of the greatest heroism, has 
degenerated into whining sensibility, or mere sensual 
gratification, which people enjoy prematurely, and 
even to satiety; the passion of love, which in those 
periods was a security against dissipation, is at present 
the source of the greatest ; the virtue of chastity, the 
principal foundation, without doubt, of moral firmness 
and manliness of character, has become a subject of 
ridicule, and is decried as old-fashioned pedantry ; and 
what ought to be the last and sweetest reward of toil, 
labor, and danger, has become a flower which every 



228 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

stripling crops by the way. Why does l^ature excite 
in our bosom this sighing after union, this all-powerful, 
irresistible propensity to love? Not, truly, to afford 
subjects for romance or to make a figure in the ecstatic 
raptures of poetry; but that it may serve as an indis- 
soluble band to unite two hearts, to lay the grounds for 
a happy generation ; and that, by this magic tie, our 
existence may be connected with the first and the most 
sacred of all duties. How fortunate would it be were 
we here to imitate the ancient method, and never to 
pull the fruit till we had planted ! 

At present, we hear a great deal of strength and 
strong men : but I will believe nothing of it as long as 
I see that they have not strength enough to subdue 
their passions ; for, that is the only cause of triumph, 
as well as the only sign of mental strength ; and chas- 
tity is the school in which youth ought to be exercised, 
and to form themselves for becoming strong men. 

We in general find, in the old world, that all those 
from whom an^^thing great or glorious was expected, 
w^ere obliged to restrain physical love. So much were 
people then convinced that Venus absorbs the whole 
powers of man, and that those given up to dissipation 
could never attain an exalted position. 



1 



CHAPTEE Y. 

Happy Married State. 



It is one of the falsest and most pernicious of preju- 
dices, that marriage is an invention merely political 
and conventional. It is much rather one of the most 
essential parts of the destination of man, both for the 



HAPPY MARRIED STATE. 229 

individual and the whole ; and an establishment abso- 
lutely necessary for the education of mankind. By mar- 
riage I understand, a firm, sacred union of two per- 
sons, for the purpose of mutual support, and for giving 
origin to and educating children. And, in this inti- 
mate union, founded on so important an object, lies, in 
my opinion, the principal grounds of domestic as well 
as public felicity; since, in the first place, it is indis- 
pensably requisite for the moral perfection of mankind. 
By this close connection of two beings, this association 
of one's interest with that of another, is selfishness, the 
most dangerous enemy of all virtue, best subdued; and 
man always more inclined to humanit}^ and compassion 
for his fellow-creatures, and still brought nearer to his 
true state of moral exaltation. His wife and his chil- 
dren form an indissoluble bond, which unites him to the 
rest of mankind, and to the good of the whole ; his heart 
is always warmed by the sweet sensation of matrimo- 
nial and parental tenderness, and defended from that 
deadening coldness which so easily overcomes the man 
who leads a solitary life; and the endearing cares of a 
father impose on him duties which accustom him to 
order, industry, and habits of prudence. His passion 
for the sex is thereby ennobled, and from a mere ani- 
mal instinct, converted into one of the highest moral 
motives of action; and violent passions, ilUhumor, and 
bad customs, are thus best eradicated. Hence arises a 
very fortunate influence over the whole and the gen- 
eral good ; so that I can, with perfect confidence aflSrm, 
that happy marriages are the most important supports 
of a state, and of public peace and felicity. A bache- 
lor always remains a mere egotist; restless and un- 
steady, a prey to selfish humors and passions; less in- 
terested for mankind, for his country and the state, 
than for himself He is overcome by a false sentiment 

20 



280 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

of liberty, which prevents him from entering into wed- 
lock ; and this sentiment is still nourished and strength- 
ened by the condition in which he lives. What can 
tend more to produce a fondness for change, sedition^ 
and revolutions, than an increase of unmarried citizens ? 
How diiferent is the case with the married ! That de- 
pendence on the other half, necessary in marriage, ac- 
customs one continually to a dependence on the laws; 
regard for one's wife and children obliges one to be 
regular and industrious: by his children, a man is at- 
tached closely to the state; its interest and prosperity 
by these means become his own ; or, as Bacon expresses 
it, he who is married and has children, has given 
pledges to the state : he is a bondsman, a true citizen, 
and a real patriot. But what is still more, a founda- 
tion is here laid, not only for the happiness of the pres- 
ent generation, but for that of the future also ; as it is 
the matrimonial union only that produces to the state 
good moral citizens, accustomed from their youth to 
regularity and an observance of their duty. One must 
not imagine that the state itself can supply this forma- 
tion of the manners, this education which all-wise 
Nature has connected with the hearts of a father and 
a mother. 

I shall now return to my principal object, to point 
out the beneficial influence which marriage has on the 
physical good of mankind. With the utmost propriety 
may it be classed among those means which tend to 
prolong life ; and my reasons are as follows : 

1st. Marriage is the only means to regulate love, 
and to direct it to its proper object. It equally pre- 
vents dissipation and cold and unnatural indifference. 
However much I have recommended continence in 
youth, convinced that it is indispensably necessary to 
promote long life, I am convinced also that there are 



HAPPY MARRIED STATE. 231 

certain years of manhood when it is as prejudicial to 
suppress by violence the propensities of nature, as it 
is to yield to them before the proper period. It is re- 
quired by the general law of harmony. No power in 
us must remain totally unexpanded ; each must be ex- 
ercised in moderation. 

2d. We are told by experience, that all those who at- 
tained to a very remarkable age were married. 

3d. The married state promotes domestic joy, which 
is the purest, the most uniform, and the least wasting 
of all. It is undoubtedly that which is best suited to 
physical as well as moral health, and which can, with 
the greatest certainty, preserve the mind in that happy 
mean state most favorable to longevity. It tends to 
moderate over-strained hope and enthusiastic specula- 
tion, as well as excessive care. Everything, by the 
participation of another being, by the intimate connec- 
tion of our existence with that of another, is rendered 
milder and more supportable. To this may be added, 
that tender charge, that heaven on earth, secured by 
nothing so much as wedded love, which lies in the pos- 
session of healthful and well-educated children ; that 
actual renovation, reserved for us by their company, of 
which Cornaro, at the age of eighty, has given so af- 
fecting a picture. 

We go out of the world by the same changes almost 
as those by which we enter it. We begin as children ; 
as children we leave off. We return, at last, to the same 
weak and helpless condition as our first. We must have 
people to lift us, to carry us, to provide us nourishment, 
and even to feed us. We again have need of parents. 
And how wise the establishment! We find them again 
in our children, who now take delight in repaying a 
part of that kindness which we showed to them. Chil- 
dren now step, as it were, into the place of parents, 



232 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

while onr weakness transposes us into the place of chil- 
dren. The venerable oak, on the other hand, does not 
enjoy the benefit of such a wise regulation. The old 
decayed trunk stands alone and forgotten, and in vain 
endeavors to procure from foreign aid that support and 
assistance which can be the work only of natural affec- 
tion and the bonds of nature. 

Do what thou canst, exert thy utmost power ; 
Yet still alone thou'lt stand till thy last hour, 
When Nature's hand, almighty and divine. 
To the grand whole thy lifeless mass shall join. 

Schiller. 



CHAPTEE YI. 

Sleep. 



I HAVE already shown that sleep is one of the wisest 
regulations of Nature, to check and moderate, at fixed 
periods, the incessant and perpetual stream of vital 
consumption. It forms, as it were, stations for our 
physical and moral existence; and we thereby obtain 
the happiness of being dail}^ re-born, and of passing 
every morning, through a state of annihilation, into a 
new and refreshed life. Without this continual change, 
this incessant renovation, how wretched and insipid 
would not life be ; and how depressed our mental as 
well as physical sensation ? The greatest philosopher 
of the present age says, therefore, with justice: Take 
from man hope and sleep ^ and he will be the most 
wretched being on earth. 

How unwisely, then, do those act who imagine that 
by taking as little sleep as possible they prolong their 



RESTORATIVE POWERS OP SLEEP. 233 

existence. They will obtain their end neither in inten- 
sive nor extensive life. They will, indeed, spend more 
hours with their eyes open; but they will never enjoy 
life in the proper sense of the word, nor that freshness 
and energy of mind which are the certain consequences 
of sound and sufficient sleep, and which stamp a like 
character on all our undertakings and actions. 

But sufficient sleep is necessary, not only for inten- 
sive life, but also for extensive, in regard to its support 
and duration. Nothing accelerates consumption so 
much, nothing wastes us so much before the time, and 
renders us old, as a want of it. The physical effects of 
sleep are, that it retards all the vital movements, col- 
lects the vital power, and restores what has been lost 
in the course of the day; and that it separates from us 
what is useless and pernicious. It is, as it were, a daily 
crisis, during which all secretions are performed in the 
greatest tranquillity, and with the utmost perfection. 

Continued watching unites all the properties destruc- 
tive of life ; incessant wasting of the vital power and 
of the organs, acceleration of consumption, and pre- 
vention of restoration. 

We must not, however, on this account, believe that 
too long-continued sleep is one of the best means for 
preserving life. Long sleep accumulates too great an 
abundance of pernicious juices, makes the organs too 
flaccid and unfit for use, and in this manner can shorten 
life also. 

In a word, no one should sleep less than six, nor more 
than eight hours. This may be established as a general 
rule. 

To those who wish to enjoy sound peaceful repose, 
and to obtain the whole end of sleep, I recommend the 
following observations: 

Ist. The place where one sleeps must be quiet and 
20* 



234 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

obscure. The less our senses are acted upon by exter- 
nal impressions, the more perfectly can the soul rest. 
One may from this see how improper the custom is of 
having a candle burning in one's bedchamber during 
the night. 

2d. People ought always to reflect, that their bed- 
chamber is a place in which they pass a great part of 
their lives; at least they do not remain in any place so 
long in the same situation. It is of the utmost impor- 
tance, therefore, that this place should contain pure, 
sound air. A sleeping apartment must, consequently, 
be roomy and high; neither inhabited nor heated dur- 
ing the day; and the windows ought always to be kept 
open, except in the night-time. 

3d. One should eat little, and only cold food for sup- 
per, and always some hours before going to bed. 

4th. When abed, one should lie not in a forced or 
constrained posture, but almost horizontal, the head 
excepted, which ought to be a little raised. Nothing 
is more prejudicial than to lie in bed half-sitting. The 
body then forms an angle, circulation in the stomach is 
checked, and the spine is always very much com- 
pressed. By this custom one of the principal ends of 
sleep, a free and uninterrupted circulation of the blood, 
is defeated; and, in infancy and ^^outh, deformity and 
crookedness are often its consequences. 

5th. All the cares and burden of the day must be laid 
aside with one's clothes; none of them must be carried 
to bed with us ; and, in this respect, one by custom may 
obtain very great power over the thoughts. I am ac- 
quainted with no practice more destructive than that 
of studying in bed, and of reading till one falls asleep. 
By these means the soul is put into too great activity, 
at a period when everything conspires to allow it per- 
fect rest ; and it is natural that the ideas, thus excited, 



RESTORATIVE POWERS OP SLEEP. 235 

should wander and float through the brain during the 
whole night. It is not enough to sleep physically ; man 
must sleep also spiritually. Such a disturbed sleep is 
as insufficient as its opposite, — that is, when our spir- 
itual part sleeps, but not our corporeal : such, for exam- 
ple, as sleep in a jolting carriage on a journey. 

6th. One circumstance, in particular, I must not here 
omit to mention. Many believe that it is entirely the 
same if one sleeps these seven hours either in the day 
or the night time. People give themselves up, there- 
fore, at night, as long as they think proper, either to 
study or pleasure, and imagine that they make every- 
thing even, when they sleep in the forenoon those hours 
which they sat up after midnight. But I must request 
every one, who regards his health, to beware of so 
seducing an error. It is certainly not the same, whether 
one sleeps seven hours by day or by night; and two 
hours' sound sleep before midnight are of more benefit 
to the body than four hours in the day. My reasons are 
as follow : 

That period of twenty-four hours, formed by the 
regular revolution of our earth, in which all its inhabi- 
tants partake, is particularly distinguished in the physi- 
cal economy of man. This regular period is apparent 
in all diseases; and all the other small periods, so won- 
derful in our physical history, are by it in realit}^ de- 
termined. It is, as it were, the unity of our natural 
chronology. Now, it is observed, that the more the 
end of these periods coincides with the conclusion of 
the day, the more is the pulsation accelerated : and a 
feverish state is produced, or the so-called evening fever, 
to which every man is subject. The accession of new 
chyle to the blood, may, in all probability, contribute 
something towards this fever, though it is not the only 
cause; for we find it in sick people who have neither 



236 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

eat nor drunk. It is more owing, without doubt, to the 
absence of the sun, and to that revolution in the atmos- 
phere which is connected with it. This evening fever 
is the reason why nervous people find themselves more 
fit for labor at night than during the day. To become 
active, they must first have an artificial stimulus, and 
the evening fever supplies the place of wine. But, one 
may easily perceive that this is an unnatural state, and 
the consequences are the same as those of every simple 
fever: lassitude, sleep, and a crisis by the perspiration 
which takes place during that sleep. It may with pro- 
priety therefore be said, that all men every night have 
a critical perspiration, more perceptible in some, and 
less so in others, by which whatever useless or per- 
nicious particles have been imbibed by our bodies, or 
created in them, during the day, are secreted and re- 
moved. This daily crisis, necessary to every man, is 
particularly requisite for his support, and the proper 
period of it is when the fever has attained to its highest 
degree, that is, the period when the sun is in the nadir, 
consequently midnight. What do those, then, who 
disobey this voice of Nature which calls for rest at the 
above period, and who employ this fever, which should 
be the means of secreting and purifying our juices 
to enable them to increase their activity and exer- 
tion ? By neglecting- the critical period, they destroy 
the whole crisis of so much importance: and, though 
they go to bed towards morning, cannot certainly ob- 
tain, on that account, the full benefit of sleep, as the 
critical period is past. They will never have a perfect, 
but an imperfect crisis; and what that means is well 
known to physicians. Their bodies also will never be 
completely purified. How clearly is this proved by the 
infirmities, rheumatic pains, and swollen feet, the un- 
avoidable consequences of such lucubration. 



PROPER PERIOD OF SLEEP. 237 

Besides, the eyes suffer more by this custom; for one 
labors then the whole summer through with candle- 
light, which is not necessary for those who employ the 
morning. 

And, lastly, those who spend the night in labor, and 
the morning in sleep, lose that time which is the most 
beautiful and the best fitted for labor. After every 
sleep we are renovated in the properest sense of the 
word; we are, in the morning, always taller than at 
night; we have then more pliability, powers, and 
juices; in a word, more of the characteristics of 
youth ; while at night, our bodies are drier and more 
exhausted, and the properties of old age then prevail. 
One, therefore, may consider each day as a sketch in 
miniature of human life, in w^hich the morning repre- 
sents youth; noon, manhood; and evening, old age. 
Who would not, then, employ the youthful part of 
each day for labor, rather than begin his work in the 
evening, the period of old age and debility? In the 
morning all nature appears freshest and most engag- 
ing ; the mind at that period is also clearest, and pos- 
sesses most strength and energy. It is not, as at night, 
worn out and rendered unequal by the multifarious im- 
pressions of the day, by business and fatigue ; it is then 
more original, and possesses its natural powers." This 
is the period of new mental creation, of clear concep- 
tions, and exalted ideas. Never does man enjoy the 
sensation of his own existence so purely and in so 
great perfection as in a beautiful morning. He who 
neglects this period neglects the youth of his life. 

All those who attained to a great age were fond of 
early rising, and John Wesley^ the founder of the Meth- 
odists, an original and singular man, was so convinced 
of the necessity of this custom that he made it a point 
of religion to get up early, and by these means lived to 



238 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

the age of eighty-eight. His motto, which as a true 
maxim of life I shall here recommend, was : 

To go early to bed, and early to rise, 

Will make a man healthy, wealthy, and wise. 



CHAPTEE YII. 

Bodily Exercise. 

''When I consider the physical structure of man," 
said the great Frederick^ " it appears to me as if Nature 
had formed us rather to be postilions than sedentary 
men of letters." And, without doubt, though this ex- 
pression be strong, it contains a great deal of truth. 
Man is, and always remains, a middle being, that in- 
cessantly fluctuates between the brute and the angel; 
and as much as he would deviate from his higher des- 
tination, did he continue the mere animal, as much 
does he offend against his present destination when he 
wishes to be merely spirit — to think only and to per- 
ceive.* He must exercise his animal and spiritual 
powers in the like degree, if he be desirous to accom- 
plish perfectly the object for which he was created; 
and this, in regard to the duration of life, is of the ut- 
most importance. Harmony in the movements is the 
grand foundation on which health, uniformity of resto- 
ration, and the duration of the body, depend; and these 
certainly cannot take place if we merely sit and think. 
The propensity to bodily movement is, in man, as great 
as the propensity to eating and drinking. Let us only 
look at a child. Sitting still is to it the greatest pun- 



ENJOYMENT OF FREE AIR. 239 

ishment. And the faculty of sitting the whole day, and 
not feeling the least desire for moving, is certainly an 
unnatural and diseased state. We are taught by ex- 
perience that those men attained to the greatest age 
who accustomed themselves to strong and incessant 
exercise in the open air. 

I consider it, therefore, as an indispensable law of 
longevity, that one should exercise, at least, an hour 
every day, in the open air. The most healthful time is 
before meals or from three to four hours after. 

In this respect, besides small journeys and excursions 
on horseback, moderate dancing and other gymnastic 
exercises are of great service; and it is much to be 
wished that we here paid more attention to imitate the 
ancients, who managed scientifically this promoter of 
health, and suffered no external circumstances to pre- 
vent them from using it. It is of most benefit when 
not merely the body, but the soul also, is exercised and 
kept awake at the same time. A walk, therefore, to 
answer fully its object, must be directed to a quarter 
where the prospects are always agreeable, and to a cer- 
tain term or spot. 



CHAPTEE YIII. 

The Enjoyment op Free Am. Moderate Temperature op Warmth. 

The enjoyment of free air may be considered as a 
nourishment equally necessary for our existence as eat- 
ing and drinking. Pure air is certainly the greatest 
means of strengthening and supporting life ; while con- 
fined and corrupted air is its most subtle and deadly 
poison. 



240 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

From this may be deduced the following practical 
rules : 

1st. Suffer no day to pass without enjoying the pure 
open air beyond the boundaries of a town or city. 
Consider your walk not merely as the means of exercise, 
but, in a particular manner, as the enjoyment of the 
purest vital nourishment, which is indispensably nec- 
essary above all to those who are much confined to 
their apartments. Besides this advantage, one obtains 
that also of making one's self, by such daily enjoyment 
of air, acquainted and familiar with a fre.e atmosphere ; 
and people are thus secured against one of the greatest 
evils that usually afflict mankind, I mean too much sen- 
sibility in regard to all impressions and variations of the 
weather. This is one of the most abundant sources of 
disease ; and there is no other method of counteracting 
it, but to harden one's self by daily exposure to the 
open air. 

Lastly. By this custom one will obtain infinite ad- 
vantage in regard to the eyes ; for it is certain that a 
great cause of weak eyes and short-sightedness are the 
four walls within which we are accustomed to live from 
our infancy, and by which the eyes at length lose their 
whole power of seeing remote objects distinctly. The 
best proof of this is, that such weakness of the eyes is 
to be found only in cities, and not in the country. 

2d. Oiie should endeavor wherever it is possible, to 
live high. Those who have a regard for their health, 
at least in cities, ought not to inhabit the ground floor. 
Let the windows be opened daily. Ventilators, or 
chimneys, are the best means for purifying the foul at- 
mosphere of confined apartments. People ought not 
to sleep in rooms which have been inhabited the whole 
day ; and the windows of bed-chambers should be always 
kept open in the daytime. 



RURAL AND COUNTRY LIFE. 241 

I must here add one remark of the utmost importance 
for the prolongation of life. The air in which one lives 
should be kept in a moderate degree of temperature. 
It is much better to live in air too cool than too hot; for 
heat accelerates, in an extraordinary degree, the stream 
of vital consumption, as is proved by the shorter lives 
of those who inhabit warm countries; and many people 
create artificially such a climate by means of their hot 
apartments. The temperature of the air in an apart- 
ment should never exceed 66° of Fahrenheit's ther- 
mometer. 



CHAPTER IX. 

Rural and Country Life. 

Fortunate are they to whose lot it has fallen to re- 
main near and true to their parent Earth ; and to find 
their happiness, labor, and destination in immediate 
intercourse with Mature. They reside at the real 
source of eternal youth, health, and felicity ; both body 
and soul enjoy there the utmost harmony and well-be- 
ing. Simplicity, cheerfulness, innocence, and content- 
ment, accompany them through life; and they attain 
to the utmost term which it is capable of reaching with 
its present organization. I cannot refrain, therefore, 
from inserting here what Herder has said on this sub- 
ject : 

The resolution of my friend to change 

His walled prison for a rural seat, 

I much applaud — why should we foolishly 

Pile up in lofty towers the hard-hewn rock ? 

To fright us with their sudden fall, or hide 

From our dark eyes the cheering face of heaven I 

21 



242 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

Not so in former days lived the young world, 

In innocence and peace ; free from such folly, 

'Midst rural scenes— there harmless mirth prevails 

And tills the breast with never-ceasing joy ; 

There we behold the wide-expanded heaven ; 

No neighbor robs us of the light of day ; 

And from the clear fresh spring Apollo bids us 

Assuage our thirst with his own liquor. 

O did but men know what is happiness ! 

Our mother Nature ne'er within dark cities, 

Or gloomy walls and castles, it confined. 

It on the plain blooms equally for all. 

Those find it oft who seek it not ; and he 

Who spurns base ore will it enjoy— his treasure 

Is what the earth presents — in the bright stream 

He sees his silver ; and his gold shoots up 

In yellow corn, or smiles from fruitful trees. 

He hears his concert in the shady grove ; 

And there his chorus, free at will to range, 

Joins in the mirthful or the pensive strain. 

Far otherwise within the town confined : 

The captive songster in its cage complains ! 

The slave who feeds it thinks it sings alone 

To please its master ; but with every note 

It bids its tyrant give it liberty — 

Nature delights in rural scenes : and Art 

Her imitator, there must follow her 

"With timid steps. Of foliage ever green 

Behold you palace, arched with thick-woven boughs! 

"Where thou mayst sit, like Persia's boasted lord, 

In halls of cedar — and 'midst peace enjoy, 

What he ne'er knows, sound, sweet, refreshing sleep. 

Great cities are great plagues ! There native joy 

Flies from man's breast, and makes him pleasure seek 

In Art alone — there everything by paint 

Is seen disguised — the countenance and walls — 

Each action, word, and even the very heart — 

All there consists of costly wood or stone ; 

And even the owners seem as hard as these. 

O rural life, 'midst poverty how rich ! 



RURAL AND COUNTRY LIFE. 243 

When hunger bids, there thou mayst nobly feast 
On what each season for thy use brings forth, 
In rich variety. The plough thy table; 
And a green leaf, by way of dish, supports 
Thy meal of fruit. A homely wooden jug 
Draws up refreshing drink from the pure stream, 
Which free from poison, pours out health alone. 
And with soft murmur thee to sleep invites : 
While, in the air, the lark high-soaring sings — 
Now mounting up, again descending low — 
Until at length, it drops into its nest, ^ 

Just at thy foot, between two furrows placed. 

If one, indeed, be desirous of sketching out, accord- 
ing to theoretical principles, the idea of a life conducive 
to health and longevity, one must recur to that pre- 
sented to us by a country life. Nowhere are all the re- 
quisites for that purpose so perfectly united as here; 
and nowhere does everything in and around mankind 
labor so powerfully to promote health and longevity. 
The enjoyment of pure, sound air ; simple and frugal 
food ; daily and strong exercise without doors ; estab- 
lished regularity in all the vital operations; the beau- 
tiful prospect of simple Nature ; and a frame of inter- 
nal peace, cheerfulness, and serenity, which by these 
means are diffused throughout the mind — what sources 
of vital restoration ! Besides, a country life is, in a 
particular manner, capable of giving that disposition 
which is contrary to the passionate, overstrained, and 
eccentric; and the more so as it removes us from the 
dissipation, corruption, and worthlessness of the town, 
which tend always to nourish the passions. It conse- 
quently preserves, both internally and externally, peace 
of mind and equanimity, which are such great supports 
to life. It inspires us with cheerfulness and hope, and 
increases our enjoyments in general, but without vio- 
lence or passion, and moderated by the softest tone of 



244 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

Nature. It needs excite no wonder, then, that, accord- 
ing to experience, instances of the greatest age are to 
be found in rural life only. 

It is a melancholy reflection that this kind of life, the 
earliest and most natural state of man, should at pres- 
ent be so little esteemed that the fortunate farmer even 
quits it till his son becomes a studious rake; and the pro- 
portion between countrymen and citizens seems daily to 
be diminished. It certainly would be much better for 
the happiness of individuals, as well as of the whole, if 
the greater part of the penknives and scissors now in 
use were converted into ploughshares, and that those 
hands occupied in scribbling were employed with the 
plough and spade. The former, to many, is indeed only 
labor of the hands; but the latter is the most useful, 
and, if I am not much mistaken, we shall be at length 
obliged, from political considerations, to recur to it 
once more. Man must again approach nearer to his 
parent Earth, from which he has so far removed in 
every point of view. 

All, indeed, cannot be farmers by profession ; but how 
beneficial would it be if men of letters, people of busi- 
ness, and those who labor with their heads, would 
divide their time between both kinds of employment, 
and imitate the ancients, who, notwithstanding their 
philosophical or political engagements, did not think it 
beneath their dignity to devote their spare hours to 
agriculture, and to rusticate in the proper sense of the 
word ! All the melancholy consequences of a sedentary 
life and overstraining the mental faculties would disap- 
pear, if people, some hours every day, or a few months 
in the year, would take hold of a spade or a mattock and 
cultivate their field or their garden ; for the usual method 
of living in the country (which in general means noth- 
ing else than to carry along with one care and books, 






RURAL AND COUNTRY LIFE. 245 

and to read, think, or write in the open air, instead of 
a chamber) cannot accomplish that object. Such rusti- 
cation will again restore the equilibrium between the 
mind and the body, which the writing-desk so often 
destroys. By a union of these three grand panaceas, 
exercise, free air, and exhilarating the spirits, a reno- 
vation and restoration may be annually effected, which 
will be of incredible service to vital duration and hap- 
piness. Nay, I do not think I say too much when I 
promise, from this practice, besides physical advan- 
tages, many of a spiritual and moral nature also. Cob- 
webs of the brain and hypotheses of the closet will cer- 
tainly be less abundant; people will not so often im- 
agine the whole world to be contained in their persons 
or within the four walls of their studies, and treat it in 
that point of view; and the mind will acquire a greater 
propensity to truth, more soundness, more warmth, and 
a more natural manner of thinking, properties which 
distinguish the Greek and Eoman philosophers so much, 
and for which, in my opinion, they were indebted prin- 
cipally to their continual intercourse with Nature. One 
ought therefore to be exceedingly careful never to suffer 
a taste for Nature to be extinguished in the mind. This 
taste may be easily destroyed by always living recluse, 
by incessant application to business, and by abstract 
speculations in the closet; and when it is once lost, the 
most beautiful rural scenes will have no effect upon us, 
and one, in the most delightful districts and under the 
serenest sky, may remain in a state of living death. 
This may be best guarded against by not removing too 
long or too far from Nature, by quitting, as often as one 
can, the artificial and abstract w^orld, by opening all the 
senses to the beneficent influences of Nature ; and if one 
from the earliest youth endeavors to acquire a taste for 
the study of Natural History (a point which ought to be 

21* 



246 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

attended to in education), and to warm the imagina- 
tion for it by the beautiful imitations of painting, and 
the heart-exalting descriptions of the poets of Naturae, 
such as a Zacharia, Thomson, Gesner, Matthison, &c. 



CHAPTER X. 

Travelling. 



I CANNOT possibly omit to devote here a particular 
place to this enjoyment, and to recommend it as a 
means of i3rolonging life. The continual motion, variety 
of scene, exhilaration of the mind, and the use of free 
and changed air, have a magical effect upon mankind, 
and contribute in an incredible degree to renovate and 
revive the whole frame. Yital consumption may indeed 
be thereby somewhat increased ; but this is amply coun- 
terbalanced by the increased restoration which is effect- 
ed, partly in regard to the body, by digestion being 
strengthened and invigorated, and partly in regard to 
the mind, by a succession of agreeable impressions, and 
the forgetfulness of one's self This help, therefore, I 
recommend to those whose employment condemns them 
to a sedentary life, who are continually engaged in ab- 
stract studies or oppressive labor, whose minds have 
sunk into a state of insensibility, melancholy, or hypo- 
chondriasis, or what is worst of all, are strangers to 
domestic felicity. 

But as many emplo}^ it in such a manner that it pro- 
duces no effect, it perhaps may be of some service to 
communicate here a few of the most important rules 



USES OF TRAVELLING. 247 

how people must travel in order to benefit their health 
and their life. 

1st. Travelling on foot, or rather on horseback, is the 
most healthful, and best calculated to answer the end 
proposed ; but when one is weakly, or undertakes long 
excursions, it is more advisable to travel in a carriage. 

2d. When one travels in a carriage,- it is very bene- 
ficial always to change the posture; that is, to sit some- 
times, and sometimes to recline. By these means one 
can best prevent the evils attending continued riding 
in this manner, which are occasioned principally by the 
jolting being in one direction. 

3d. Nature will not suffer any sudden transitions. 
It is therefore improper for people accustomed to a sed- 
entary life to undertake suddenly a journey during 
which they will be exposed to violent jolting The case 
here is the same as if one accustomed to drink water 
should all at once begin to drink wine. Let the trans- 
ition be slow, and begin with moderate motion. 

4th. Excursions, the object of which is health and 
the prolongation of life, must not be fatiguing; but this 
can be determined only by difference of temperament 
and constitution. Ten or twelve miles daily, with a 
rest every three or four days, may perhaps be the best 
standard. One ought, above all things, to avoid travel- 
ling in the night-time; which, by interrupting the nec- 
essary refreshment, checking perspiration, and expos- 
ing the body to unhealthful air, is always prejudicial. 
By respecting nocturnal rest, one may accomplish twice 
as much in the day. 

5th. People must not imagine that they may indulge 
a little more in intemperance when on a journey. One, 
however, needs not to be too nice in the choice of food 
and drink ; and it is always best to use the common fare 
of each country. But at any rate the stomach ought 



248 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

not to be overloaded. By the motion of travelling, the 
power of the body is too much divided for the stomach 
to admit of a large quantity of food; and the motion 
itself, by these means, will become more fatiguing. 
People, in particular, should not indulge too much in 
heating food and liquors, as is often the case on jour- 
neys; for travelling alone acts as a stimulus, and less 
stimulating nourishment is then required than in a 
state of rest. A want of attention to this rule may 
occasion too violent irritation, inflammation, accumula- 
tions of the blood, &c. It is most proper, on journeys, 
to eat rather little at a time, but often; to drink more 
than one eats; and to choose food easy of digestion, yet 
strongly nutritive, not of a heating nature, and such as 
cannot be readily adulterated. It is safest, therefore, 
in the country and in small inns, to use milk, eggs, 
well-baked bread, boiled or roasted meat, and fruit. I 
advise travellers, above all, to be on their guard against 
the wine kept in such houses. It will be much better 
to drink water, with the addition of a little lemon-juice, 
or of some good liquor which they may carry along 
with them. If the water be impure, it may be rendered 
sweet by charcoal powder.* 

* This is one of the greatest and most beneficial discoveries of 
modern times, for which we are indebted to Mr. Lowiz, of Peters- 
burg. "Water which has a disagreeable odor, or has become pu- 
trid, may almost immediately be freed from its nauseous taste, as 
well as its bad smell, and be converted into good drinkable liquor, 
by the following process : Take some burnt charcoal, and reduce 
it to a fine powder. Mix about a tablespoonful of this powder in 
a pint of water, stir it well round, and suflfer it to stand for a few 
minutes. Let it then run slowly through filtering paper into a 
glass, and it will be found quite transparent, without any bad taste 
or smell, and perfectly pure for drinking. People may preserve 
the charcoal powder a long time in a small bottle well corked, and 
carry it with them when they travel. 



USES OF TRAVELLING. 249 

6th. Avoid immoderate exertion and wasting of the 
powers. It is, however, as diiEcult in general to lay- 
down a proper standard of motion, as of eating and 
drinking. But Nature, in this, has given us a very ex- 
cellent guide, a sense of lassitude which is here of as 
much importance as the sense of satiety in eating or 
drinking. Weariness is nothing else than the voice of 
Nature, which tells us that our stock of powers is ex- 
hausted, and that he who is tired should enjoy repose. 
But Nature may, indeed, become lost in habit; and we 
may be as insensible of lassitude as the continual glut- 
ton is of fulness, especially when the nerves are over- 
strained by stimulating and heating food and drink. 
There are then, however, other signs to tell us that we 
have exceeded the proper measure ; and I request that 
to these the strictest attention may be paid. When one 
begins to be low-spirited or dejected; to yawn often, 
and be drowsy, yet at the same time to be incapable of 
sleeping though one enjoys rest; when the appetite is 
lost; when the smallest movement occasions a flutter- 
ing of the pulse, heat, and even trembling; when the 
mouth becomes dry, and is sensible of a bitter taste, it 
is high time to seek refreshment and repose, if one 
wishes to prevent illness already beginning to take 
place. 

7th. While one is travelling, insensible perspiration 
may easily be checked ; and cold is the principal source 
of those diseases which thence arise. It is advisable, 
therefore, to guard against all sudden transitions from 
heat to cold, or the contrary; and those who have 
great sensibility in the skin, will do well, when they 
go on a journey, to carry a thin flannel shirt along 
with them. 

8th. Cleanliness, when one travels, is doubly neces- 
sary; and, therefore, to wash the body frequently with 



250 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

cold water is much to be recommended. This will con- 
tribute also, in a great degree, to remove lassitude. 

9th. During winter, or in a cold climate, one may 
always submit to greater exercise than during summer, 
or in warm climates, where perspiration exhausts one- 
half of the strength. One, also, can undergo more 
fatigue earl}^ in the morning than in the afternoon. 

10th. Full-blooded persons, or those who are subject 
to a spitting of blood, or other serious disease, must 
consult their physician before they undertake a journey. 



CHAPTEE XL 

Cleanliness, and Care of the Skin. 

EoTH these I consider as important means for the 
prolongation of life. Cleanliness removes everything 
that IS'ature has secreted from us as useless or cor- 
rupted, as well as everything prejudicial that might be 
conveyed to us from without through the superficies of 
our bodies. 

Care of the skin is an essential part of cleanliness, 
and consists in paying such attention to it from infancy, 
that it may be kept in a lively, active, and useful con- 
dition. 

The skin, indeed, must not be considered merely as a 
common covering to defend us from the sun and the 
rain, but as one of the most important organs of our 
body, without the incessant activity and agency of 
which there can be neither health nor long life ; and 
in the neglect of which in modern times, lies the secret 
source of numberless diseases and evils that tend to 
shorten our existence. May the following observations, 



CARE OF THE SKIN. 251 

therefore, make more impression on my readers, and 
excite more attention to this organ and the manage- 
ment of it ! 

The skin is the greatest medium for purifying our 
bodies; and every moment a multitude of useless, cor- 
rupted, and worn-out particles evaporate through its 
numberless small vessels, in an insensible manner. 
This secretion is inseparably connected with life and 
the circulation of our blood ; and by it the greater part 
of all the impurity of our bodies is removed. If the 
skin therefore be flabby or inactive, and if its pores be 
stopped up, an acridity and corruption of our juices will 
be the unavoidable consequence, and the most danger- 
ous diseases may ensue. 

Besides, the skin is the seat o^ feeling, the most gen- 
eral of all our senses, or that which in an essential 
manner connects us with surrounding Nature, and in 
particular with the atmosphere ; and by the state of 
which, in a great measure, the sensation of our own 
existence, and the relation which we bear to everything 
around us, is determined. Hence a greater or less sensi- 
bility, in regard to disease, depends very much on the 
skin; and those whose skin is weak or relaxed have 
generally a sensation too delicate and unnatural, by 
which means it happens that they are internally affected 
in a manner highly disagreeable, by every small varia- 
tion in the weather, every change of the atmosphere, 
and at length become real barometers. Such a consti- 
tution is called the rheumatic, and arises chiefly from 
a want of strength in the skin. It occasions a tendency 
to perspiration, which is also an unnatural state, and 
which exposes us continually to colds and other dis- 
orders. 

It is, likewise, a grand means for preserving an equi- 
librium in the powers and motion of our bodies. The 



252 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

more active and open the skin is, the more secure will 
people be against obstructions, and diseases of the 
lungs, intestines, and lower stomach ; and the less ten- 
dency will they have to gastric (bilious) fevers^ hypochon- 
driasis^ gout, asthma, catarrh, and varicose veins. One 
great cause of these disorders being at present so com- 
mon amongst us is, that we no longer endeavor to 
cleanse and strengthen the skin by bathing and other 
means. 

The skin, moreover, is one of the most important 
means of restoration of our bodies, by which a multi- 
tude of fine spiritual component parts are conveyed to 
us from the atmosphere. Without a sound skin there 
can be no complete restoration, which is one of the 
chief principles of long life. 

It ought also not to be forgotten, that the skin is the 
grand organ of crises, that is to say, the assistant of 
Nature in disease ; that a man with open pores, and a 
skin sufficiently vigorous, may depend on being cured 
much more easily and with more certainty, and often 
even without the use of medicine. 

That such an organ must be a great support of health 
and life, no one will deny; and it is therefore incom- 
prehensible how people in modern times, since man- 
kind have become more enlightened, should neMect it 
so much. Nay, we in general find, that, instead of 
paying the least attention to it, they from their infancy 
do everything in their power, as it were, to relax and 
to weaken it, and to stop up its pores. The most of 
mankind, except at baptism, never experience the bene- 
fit of bathing during their w^hole lives ; the skin by dirt 
and daily perspiration is more and more stopped up ; 
weakened and relaxed by warm clothing, furs, feather- 
beds, &c.; rendered inactive by confined air, and a 
sedentary life, and I think I may, without exaggera- 



CARE OP THE SKIN. 253 

tion, assert, that, among the greater part of men, the 
pores of the skin are half-closed and unfit for use. 

Let me here be permitted to call the attention of my 
readers to an incongruity, which is not the only one of 
the kind in human life. The most ignorant person is 
convinced that proper care of the skin is indispensably 
necessary for the existence and well-being of horses 
and various animals. The groom often denies himself 
sleep and other gratifications, that he may curry and 
dress his horses sufficiently. If they become meagre 
and weak, the first reflection is, whether there may not 
have been some neglect or want of care in regard to 
combing them. Such a simple idea, however, never 
occurs to him in respect to his child. If it grow feeble 
and sickly; if it pine away and is afflicted with disease, 
the consequence of dirt, he thinks rather of witchcraft 
and other absurdities than of the real cause, neglecting 
to keep the skin pure and clean. Since we show so 
much prudence and intelligence in regard to animals, 
why not in regard to men ? 

The rules which I have to propose for preserving 
cleanliness and a sound state of the skin, are remark- 
ably easy and simple; and, if observed from youth, 
may be considered as very powerful means for the pro- 
longation of life. 

1st. Eemove carefully everything that the body has 
secreted as corrupted or prejudicial. This may be done 
by changing the linen often, daily if it be possible, and 
also the bedclothes, or at least the sheets ; by using, 
instead of a feather bed, a mattress, which attracts less 
dirt; and by continually renewing the ^ir in apart- 
ments, and particularly in one's bedchamber. 

2d. Let the whole body be washed daily with cold 
water, and rub the skin strongly at the san^e time, by 

22 



254 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFB. 

which means it will acquire a great deal of life and 
vigor. 

od. One ought to bathe once a week, the whole year 
through, in tepid water; and it will be of considerable 
service to add to it three or four ounces of soap. It is 
much to be wished that public baths were again erected, 
that poor people might enjoy this benefit, and thereby 
be rendered strong and sound, as w^as the case some 
centuries ago.* 

I cannot quit this subject without mentioning sea- 
bathing, which, on account of its stimulative and pene- 
trating powder, may be placed at the head of those 
means that regard the care of the skin; and which 
certainly supplies one of the first wants of the present 
generation, by opening the pores, and thereby reinvig- 
orating the whole nervous system. This bathing is 
attended with two important advantages. The first 
is, that besides its great healing power in cases of dis- 

* Truces of this laudable practice may still everywhere be seen 
in the remains of baths and bathing-houses ; but the use of it has 
been abandoned through the inconceivable indolence of mankind. 
Every Sunday evening,. people formerly went in procession through 
the streets, beating on basins, to remind the lower classes of bath- 
ing ; and the tradesman, who labored at dirty work, washed oft", 
in the bath, that dirt which now adheres to him perhaps during 
his whole life. In every place of any consequence there should be 
a bathing-house, or a floating bath on some river for the summer, 
and another for the winter. In bathing it ought to be a rule never 
to enter the water with a fuU stomach, but either fasting or four 
hours after eating ; never to bathe when the body is hot ; to re- 
main in cold water not more than a quarter of an hour, and in 
warm water never more than three quarters ; to be cautious of 
catching cold when one comes out, which may be best done by 
putting on a flannel gown ; and during dry warm weather, to 
take moderate exercise afterwards ; but in cold, moist weather, 
to remaii} for an hour in a warm apartment, 



CARE OF THE SKIN. 255 

ease, it may be employed by those who are perfectly 
well, as the means most agreeable to Nature for 
strengtheniDg and preserving health ; which is not the 
case with a great many other kinds of bathing, that 
arejnjurious to a healthy person. In this respect it 
may be compared to bodily exercise, which can remove 
diseases otherwfse incurable — and which may be used 
also by those who are sound, in order to preserve them- 
selves in that state. The other advantage'is the noble, 
grand, and indescribable prospect of the sea connected 
with it; and which, on those not acquainted with it, 
has an effect capable of bracing up the nervous system, 
and producing a beneficial exaltation of the whole 
frame. 1 am fully convinced that the physical effects 
of sea-bathing must be greatly increased by this im- 
pression on the mind; and that a hypochondriac or 
nervous person may be half cured by residing on the 
sea-coast, and enjojnng a view of the grand scenes of 
Nature which will there present themselves; such as 
the rising and setting of the sun over the blue expanse 
of the waters, the awful majesty of the waves during 
a storm, &c. For the like purpose, therefore, I would 
advise an inhabitant of the inland parts to take a 
journey to the sea; and an inhabitant of the coast to 
make an excursion to the Alps; Jbr both, in my opinion, 
are the sublimest productions of Nature. The thanks 
of the public are undoubtedly due to that exalted 
prince, so much a friend to mankind, who erected the 
first sea-bath in Germany, at Dobrahn, near Eostock; 
and to that worthy physician Yogel, who formed the 
plan of it in a manner so excellent and so likely to make 
it answer the intended purpose, and who assists its 
salutary effects by his presence and advice. 

4th. People should wear warm clothing that does 
not tend to weaken the skin, and which may readily 



256 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

suifer the perspiring matter to pass through it. In 
this respect, I know nothing more prejudicial than to 
wear fur, which by its great warmth, weakens the skin 
very much ; does not promote evaporation, but sweat; 
and on account of the thickness of the leather, does-not 
suffer the perspiring particles to fly off. The conse- 
quence is, that a continual vapor-batn is formed be- 
tween the fur and the skin, and that a great part of 
the impure matter is again thrown back on the body, 
and imbibed by it. Far better is flannel, which has the 
advantage of fur without the disadvantage of attract- 
ing dirt and occasioning too much heat. But all these 
warm coverings on the bare skin are to be recom- 
mended only during intense cold, or for weakly people 
subject to rheumatism. In infancy and youth, and for 
those whose bodies are sound, it is far preferable to 
wear next the skin either linen or cotton, with a vest 
of the same in summer, and in winter one of woollen. 

5th. One should use much bodily exercise ; for this is 
a great j^romoter of insensible perspiration. 

6th. Avoid all food unfavorable to perspiration. Of 
this nature is fat of every kind, pork, goose, cheese, &c. 



I 



CHAPTEE XII. 

Proper Food. Moderation in Eating and Drinking. 
Preservation op the Teeth. 

The idea of proper regimen is somewhat relative. In 
2:eneral, we find that those men who were not too nice 
or particular in regard to their food, but who lived 
sparingly, attained to the greatest age ; and it is an ad- 



& 



CARE OF THE TEETH. 257 

vantage peculiar to man, that he can digest and assimi- 
late the most heterogeneous kinds of nourishment, and 
is not, like other animals, confined to one certain class. 
It is proved that people in a natural state, who are 
much exposed to the free open air and to exercise, re- 
quire few rules respecting their diet. It was our arti- 
ficial manner of living that first rendered regimen nec- 
essary. 

It is at any rate certain, that the prolongation of life 
does not so much depend on the quality, as on the 
quantity of our nourishment ; and the instance of 
Cornaro affords an astonishing proof how far a man of 
weakly constitution may thereby prolong his existence. 

It may with truth be asserted, that the greater part 
of mankind eat more than is necessary; and by being 
crammed and over-fed in infancy, we are deprived of 
that natural sensation which ought to tell us when we 
have enough. 

I shall here only give such common rules in regard 
to eating and drinking as will suit the generality of 
mankind ; and which, I am convinced, will have an es- 
sential influence in prolonging life. 

1st. It is not what we eat, but what we digest, that 
does us good, and serves to nourish our bodies. Me 
who wishes to live long ought, therefore, to eat slowly ; as 
our food must obtain in the mouth the first degree of 
preparation and assimilation. This is effected by its 
being sufficiently chewed and mixed with saliva ; both 
which I consider as a principal part of the business of 
restoration, and consequently set great value upon them 
in regard to the prolongation of life, especially as it ap- 
pears by my researches that all those who were accus- 
tomed to eat slowly attained to a great age. 

2d. A great deal depends on good teeth; and, there- 
fore, I can with propriety reckon preservation of the 

22* 



258 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

teeth among those means which tend to prolong life. 
By the following rules, if observed from infancy, the 
teeth may be preserved fast and sound to the greatest 
age. 

One must always join with the flesh used for food a 
sufficient quantity of vegetables and bread; for flesh 
adheres more readily between the teeth, and tends to 
injure them. It will be found, therefore, that those 
who use little or no flesh, boors and country people, 
have always the best teeth, though they never clean 
them. But no tooth-powder can be more efficacious 
than a piece of dry burnt bread ; and it is a custom very 
salutary for the teeth, to chew slowly a crust of bread 
after every meal. 

Avoid exposing the teeth to a sudden transition from 
heat to cold, or the contrary; for the teeth are covered 
with a glassy kind of enamel, which may be easily 
cracl^ed by such sudden changes; so that corrupted 
particles can insinuate themselves into the rents, and 
lay the first foundation of decay within them. It will 
be best, therefore, never to take too hot or too cold 
things into the mouth ; and be careful, above all, not to 
drink cold liquor while you are eating warm food, such 
as hot soup, &c. 

Never eat sugar, and avoid confectionery, which has 
mixed with it a quantity of tough calcareous particles. 

As soon as you observe that a tooth is decayed, have 
it immediately pulled out, otherwise it will infect the 
rest.* 

* It is an error to suppose that a decayed tooth has the power 
of infecting its neighbor, and it is bad advice to suggest its ex- 
traction. One of the chief agents of destruction of the teeth is 
pressure, therefore a tooth usually decays on the side which is con- 
tiguous to another, and as in all probability both teeth are suf- 
ferers from the pressure, both are liable to decay ; because one pre- 



I 



CARE OF THE TEETH. 259 

V 

Wash your teeth with water every morning, and in 
particular after each meal. This will remove any re- 
mains of food adhering to them, which commonly fix 
themselves between the teeth, and lay the first ground 
for decay. 

Those who observe these rules will seldom have oc- 
casion for tooth-powder. Eut if the teeth have a ten- 
dency, as is the case naturally in some men, to become 
foul, or to acquire what is called tartar, I recommend 
the following harmless prescription : Take half an 
ounce of red sandal-wood, with a quarter of an ounce 
of China-root {smilax aspera Chinensis) ; reduce them to 
a fine powder, and sift it through a hair-sieve.* Then 
add to it six drops of the oil of cloves, and the same 
quantity of bergamot oil, and rub the teeth with it in 
the morning. 

3d. Beware of studying, reading, or straining the 
head while at table. That period must certainly be 
consecrated to the stomach. It is the time of its 

cedes the other in this action, it has been inferred that the decayed 
tooth has contaminated its fellow, but this is not the fact. Then 
as to the advice. When a tooth is decayed, the patient should 
seek the dentist, who will probably clear out the dead part, and 
stop the cavity with gold. When this operation is well and judi- 
ciously performed, the tooth will last as long as if it were perfectly 
sound. Hence, the chief art of the dentist of the present day is to 
save the teeth and not waste them, as was the case when our 
author flourished. — Editor. 

* This tooth-powder, composed of materials no longer in use, 
is very inferior to the tooth-powders of the present day ; the best 
of which are those made either of simple precipitated chalk : of pre- 
cipitated chalk with one-eighth part of orris-root ; or of precipi- 
tated chalk with one-eighth part of camphor. Camphor has of 
late been accused of doing injury to the teeth, by rendering them 
brittle ; whether such be really the case I am unable to decide. — 
Editoe. 



260 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

government, and the mind must no further interfere 
with it than may be necessary to assist its operations. 
Laughter is one of the greatest helps to digestion with 
which I am acquainted; and the custom, prevalent 
among our forefathers, of exciting it at table by jesters 
and buffoons, was founded on true medical principles. 
In a word, endeavor to have cheerful and merry com- 
panions at your meals. What nourishment one receives 
amidst mirth and jollity, will certainly produce good 
and light blood. 

4th. Do not expose yourself to violent motion after 
meals; for this will disturb, in an astonishing degree, 
the digestion and assimilation of your nourishment. 
It will be the best to stand, or to walk about slowly. 
The proporest time for exercise is before meals, or three 
hours after. 

5th. Never eat so much that you feel you have a 
stomach. It will be best to give over before you are 
completely sated. The quantit}^ of food must be al- 
ways proportioned to one's bodily labor : the less the 
labor, the less ought to be the nourishment. 

6th. In the choice of food one should incline more to 
vegetables. Flesh has always a greater tendency to 
putrefaction; and vegetables, on the other hand, to 
acidity, which corrects putrefaction, our continual and 
greatest enemy. Besides, animal food is always of a 
more heating and stimulating nature; whereas vege- 
tables produce cold, mild blood ; lessen the internal 
motion, mental as well as bodily irritability, and pow- 
erfully retard vital consumption. Lastly, animal food 
yields more blood and nourishment; and requires, in 
order to be beneficial to us, much more labor and bodily 
motion ; and, by the use of it, one also is liable to be- 
come plethoric. On this account it is not proper for 
men of letters, and those who sit a great deal, as such 



I 



MODERATION IN FOOD. 261 

people do not require so strong restoration, or so much 
addition of substance, but only of those fine nourishing 
juices that are necessary for the spiritual functions. 
One, above all, ought to avoid flesh in summer, and 
when putrid fevers are prevalent. We find that it is 
not those who lived on flesh, but on vegetables, pulse, 
fruit, and milk, who attained to the greatest age; Lord 
Bacon mentions a man of 120, who, during his whole 
life, never used any other food than milk. The Brah- 
mins, by their religion, are confined merely to vegeta- 
bles, and for the most part, live to the age of 100. 
John Wesley, in the middle of his life, gave over the 
use of flesh, lived upon vegetables alone, and attained 
to the age of 88. 

7th. At night one ought to eat sparingly, and use 
little or no flesh, if cold it will be best; and to sup a 
few hours before bedtime. 

8th. Never neglect to use a sufficient quantity of 
drink. It too often happens that people, by inatten- 
tion to the calls of Nature, forget drinking altogether, 
and are no longer reminded of it ; which is the grand 
cause of aridity, obstructions in the lower stomach, 
and a multitude of diseases to be found so frequently 
among men of letters, and females, who lead a seden- 
tary life. But it is to be observed, that the best time 
for drinking is not while one is eating, as the gastric 
juices are thereby rendered too thin, and the stomach 
weakened, but about an hour after meals. 

The best drink is water, a liquor commonly despised, 
and even considered as prejudicial ; I will not hesitate, 
however, to declare it to be one of the greatest means 
for prolonging life. Read what is said of it by that 
respectable veteran, Theden, surgeon-general, who 
ascribes his long life of more than 80 years chiefly to 
the daily use of seven or eight quarts (from twenty to 



262 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

twenty-four pounds) of fresh water, which he drank 
for upwards of forty years. Between his thirtieth and 
fortieth year he was a most miserable hypochondriac, 
oppressed with the deepest melancholy; tormented 
with a palpitation of the heart, indigestion, &c. ; and 
imagined that he could not live six months. But from 
the time that he began this water-regimen, all these 
symptoms disappeared; and, in the latter half of his 
life, he enjoyed better health than before, and was per- 
fectly free from the hypochondriac affection. One 
great point, however, is, that the water must be fresh, 
that is recently drawn from a spring or running stream, 
and be put into a vessel well stopped; for all spring 
water, like the mineral, contains fixed air, which ren- 
ders it strengthening and favorable to digestion. Pure, 
fresh water has the following advantages, which cer- 
tainly must inspire us with respect for it. 

The element of water is the greatest and only pro- 
moter of digestion ; by its coldness and fixed air it is an 
excellent strengthener and reviver of the stomach and 
nerves. On account of its abundance of fixed air, and 
the saline particles it contains, it is a powerful prevent- 
ive of bile and putrefaction. It assists all the secre- 
tions of the body. Without water there could be no 
excretion; as, according to the latest experiments, 
oxygen is a component part of it, by drinking water 
we actually imbibe a new stimulus of life. 

I cannot here omit to say something in favor of soups 
(liquid nourishment), since it has been lately fashion- 
able to decry them as prejudicial. 

The moderate use of soups is certainly not hurtful; 
and it is singular that people should imagine that it 
tends too much to relax the stomach. Does not all our 
drink, even though cold, become in a few minutes a 
kind of warm soup in the stomach; and does not the 



MODERATION IN FOOD. 263 

stomach retain the same temperature during the whole 
day ? Be careful only not to use it hot, in too great 
quantity at one time, or too watery. It is attended 
even with great advantages. It supplies the place of 
drink, particularly to men of letters, women, and all 
those who do not drink, or drink very little except at 
table, and who, when they give over soup, receive into 
their blood too little moisture. And it is here to be re- 
marked, that fluids used in the form of soup unite much 
better and sooner with our juices than when drunk cold 
and raw. On this account soup is a great preventive 
of dryness and rigidity in the body, and therefore the 
best nourishment for old people, and those who are of 
an arid temperament. It even supplies the place of 
medicine. After catching cold, in nervous headaches, 
colics, and different kinds of cramp in the stomach, 
warm soup is of excellent service. It may serve as a 
proof of the utility, or at least harmlessness, of soup, 
when I remark that our forefathers, who certainly had 
more strength than we have, used soup; that it is used 
by rustics, who are stronger than those in refined life ; 
and that all the old people with whom I ever was ac- 
quainted were great friends to it. 

Wine rejoices the heart of man, but it is by no means 
necessary for long life, since those who never drank it 
seem to have become oldest. Nay, as a stimulant, 
which accelerates vital consumption, it may tend very 
much to shorten life, when used too frequently, or in 
too great abundance. To render it friendly and not 
prejudicial to life, it must be drunk daily, but always 
in moderation : the younger a man is in less, and the 
older in the greater quantity. It is best when one con- 
siders and uses wine as the seasoning of life, and re- 
serves it for days of mirth and recreation to enliven the 
friendly circle. 



264 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 



CHAPTEE XIII. 

Mental Tranquillity, Contentment. Disposition op Mind, 
AND Employments which tend to Prolong Life. 

Peace of mind, cheerfulness, and contentment, are 
the foundation of all happiness, all health, and long life. 
Some may here say, these are means which we have not 
in our own power; they depend upon external circum- 
stances. But to me it appears that the case is not so ; 
for, otherwise, the great and rich would be the most 
contented and happy, and the poor the most miserable. 
Experience, however, shows the contrary ; and more 
contentment, without doubt, is to be found amidst 
j)Overty, than among the class of the rich and wealth3^ 

There are sources, then, of contentment and happi- 
ness w^hich lie in ourselves, and which we ought care- 
fully to search out and to use. Let me here be per- 
mitted to mention a few of these helps, recommended 
by the simplest philosophy, and which I offer merely 
as rules of regimen, the good advice of a physician how 
to prolong life. 

1st. Endeavor above all things to subdue your pas- 
sions. A man who is continually subject to the impulse 
of his passions, is always in an extreme and exalted 
state, and can never attain that peaceful frame so nec- 
essary for the support of life. His internal vital con- 
sumption is thereby dreadfully increased, and he must 
soon be destroyed. 

2d. People should accustom themselves to consider 
life not as an object, but the means of attaining to 
higher perfection ; and our existence and fate as always 



I 



CONTENTMENT. 2B6 

directed to a higher aim, and subjected to a more ex- 
alted power. They should never lose sight of that point 
of view which the ancients named, trust in Providence. 
They will thus have the best clue to direct their way 
through the labyrinth of life, and the greatest security 
against all attacks by which their peace of mind might 
be disturbed. 

3d. Live always, but in the proper sense, for the day; 
that is, employ every day as if it were your last, with- 
out taking any thought for to-morrow. Unhappy men 
who still think of what is to come, and amidst your 
plans and projects for the future, lose the enjoyment of 
the present ! The present is the parent of the future ; 
and he who fully employs each day and each hour ac- 
cording to its destination, can in the evening lie down 
to repose with the agreeable satisfaction of having not 
only lived that day and fulfilled its object, but of having 
also laid the best foundation for the enjoyment of the 
future. 

4th. Endeavor to form as just conceptions as possible 
of every event, and you will find that the greater part 
of the evils in the world arise from mistakes, false 
interest, or precipitation ; and that the principal point 
is not so much what is done to us, as how we take it. He 
who possesses this happy talent is independent of ex- 
ternal circumstances. As Weishaupt has said, "It is 
certain that wisdom alone is the source of pleasure, and 
that folly is the source of misery. Without a total 
resignation in the will of Providence, a conviction that 
all events are ordered for our good, and that content- 
ment with the world, which thence arises, everything 
is folly, and will lead to dissatisfaction." 

5th. One should always strengthen and confirm more 
and more one's trust and confidence in mankind, and 
in all the noble virtues, benevolence, friendship, affec- 

23 



266 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

tion and humanity which thence arise. Consider every 
man as good, till you are convinced of the contrary by 
incontestable proofs; and even then man ought to be 
looked upon as a being misled by error, who deserves 
our compassion much rather than our hatred. Man 
indeed would be good, were he not seduced by igno- 
rance,^ misconception, and false interest. Woe to those 
whose philosophy consists in trusting no one ! Their 
life is a continual state of defensive and oifensive war; 
and they must bid farewell to cheerfulness and content- 
ment. The more a m^n entertains good wishes to all 
around him, the more will he render others happy, and 
the more happiness will he himself enjoy. 

6th. To promote contentment and peace of mind 
Hope is indispensably necessary. He who can hope 
prolongs his existence, not merely in idea, but physi- 
cally, by the peace and equanimity which he thus secures. 
I do not allude here to hope within the narrow bound- 
aries of our 2)resent existence, but to hope beyond the 
grave ! In my opinion, hope in immortality is the only 
hope that can make life of any value, and render the 
burdens of it easy and supportable. Hope and Faith, 
ye great and divine virtues! who, without you, is able 
to wander through a life so full of error and deceit, 
whose beginning, as well as end, is involved in thick 
darkness ; the duration of which is a moment, and in 
which we scarcely begin to look forward to futurity 
when we are swallowed up by destruction. Ye are the 
only supports of the wavering; the greatest revivers 
of the weary traveller. Those wlio do not honor you 
as exalted virtues, must embrace you as indispensable 
assistants in this terrestrial life, and endeavor to be 
strong in you through a love for themselves, if not 
through a love for the things that are invisible. — In this 
respect one can say that religion itself may be a means 



CONTENTMENT AND JOY. 267 

for prolonging life. The more it subdues the passions, 
promotes self-denial, produces internal tranquillity, and 
enlivens the above consoling truths, the more will it 
serve to extend the period of mortal existence. 

Joy^ also, is one of the greatest panaceas of life. One 
must not, however, believe that it is always necessary 
to excite it by sought-for events and fortunate incidents. 
By that frame of mind which I have already delineated, 
people maybe rendered susceptible of it ; and those 
who have attained to that happy disposition will never 
want opportunities of rejoicing. But one should never 
neglect to seek and employ every occasion of indulg- 
ing in joy that is pure and not too violent. No joy is 
more healthful, or better calculated to prolong life, than 
that which is to be found in domestic happiness, in the 
company of cheerful and good men, and in contemplat- 
ing with delight the beauties of nature. A day spent 
in the country, under a serene sky, amidst a circle of 
agreeable friends, is certainly a more positive means of 
prolonging life than all the vital elixirs in the world. — 
Laughter, that external expression of joy, must not 
here be omitted. It is the most salutary of all the bodily 
movements; for it agitates»both the body and the soul 
at the same time; promotes digestion, circulation, and 
respiration ; and enlivens the vital power in every or- 
gan. 

The higher pursuits and employment of the mind de- 
serve here a place also; but I must remark, that it will 
be necessary to observe those prudential rules, which I 
have already laid down, to prevent an abuse of them. 
These higher enjoyments and pleasures are entirely 
peculiar to man, and an important source of vital res- 
toration. Among these I reckon, above all, the reading 
of agreeable and instructive books ; the study of in- 



268 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

teresting sciences; contemplating Nature, and examin- 
ing her secrets; the discovering of new truths, by the 
combination of ideas, improving conversation, &c. 



CHAPTEE XI Y. 

Keality of Character. 

It is well known how extremely prejudicial to life is 
that occupation which renders it necessary for a man 
to exist some hours daily in an assumed state, not nat- 
ural to him ; I mean the employment of a player. 

What, then, must the case be with those people who 
always carry on a like occupation, who are continually 
acting this or the other feigned part on the grand the- 
atre of the world, and who never really are what they 
appear to be ? Those, indeed, who are deceitful live 
always under disguise, restraint, and a false character. 
They may be found, above all, among the over-refined 
and too highly cultivated classes of mankind; but I am 
acquainted with no condition more unnatural. 

It is bad enough to be obliged to wear clothes not 
made for us, which everywhere pinch and confine us, 
and which render every movement painful. But what 
is this to wearing a false character; to a moral re- 
straint, where our words, conduct, gestures, and ac- 
tions are in continual opposition to our internal feel- 
ings and wishes; where Ave violently suppress our 
strongest natural propensities and assume foreign 
ones ; and where we are obliged to keep continually 
strained every nerve and every vessel, in order to 
carry on that deception which is our whole existence ? 



AGREEABLE STIMULANTS. 269 

Such a false state is nothing else than a continual 
cramp; and this is proved by the consequences. An 
incessant restlessness and anxiety, deranged circula- 
tion and digestion, continued contradiction both phys- 
ical and moral, are its unavoidable effects. In the end 
it becomes impossible for these unfortunate men to lay 
aside this assumed character; so that it becomes a sec- 
ond nature. They are at length lost, and cannot again 
find themselves. In a vrord, this false state keeps up 
continually a secret nervous fever. Internal irritation 
and external cramp are, both, parts of it; and it must 
lead to destruction and the grave, the only place where 
such wretched beings can hope ever to lay aside the 
mask. 



CHAPTEE XY. 

Agrbeable Stimulants op the Senses and of Sensation Moderately 

Used. 

These have a double effect in the prolongation of 
life". In the first place, by their immediate influence on 
the vital power, they enliven, strengthen, and exalt it; 
and, secondly, by increasing the activity of the whole 
machine, they put into much greater activity the or- 
gans of digestion, circulation, and secretion, which 
perform the most important functions of restoration. 
A certain cultivation and refinement of our sensibility 
is therefore healthful and necessary; because it renders 
us more susceptible of these enjoyments ; only it must 
not be carried too far, else it may become a disease. In 
stimulating the senses great care must be taken also 
not to exceed the proper measure ; for the same enjoy- 

23* 



270 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

ment which, when used in a moderate degree, is capa- 
ble of restoring, may, if used too much, consume and 
exhaust. 

All agreeable stimulants, which can aifect us through 
the sight, hearing, smell, taste, and feeling, may be in- 
cluded under this head ; and therefore the pleasures of 
music, painting, and the other imitative arts, poetry, 
&c., as tbey can exalt and renew these enjoyments. In 
the present view, however, it appears to me that Music 
deserves the preference, because no mental impression 
can have so speedy and immediate an effect in tuning, 
enlivening, and regulating the vital operations. Our 
whole frame assumes spontaneously the tone and char- 
acter of the music; the pulse becomes either quicker 
or more calm ; the passions are roused or softened, ac- 
cording to the will of this language of the soul, which, 
without words, merely through the power of melody 
and harmony, acts immediately upon our most internal 
organs, and by these means enchants us often more ir- 
resistibly than eloquence itself. It is much to be wished 
that the study of music in this view were more com- 
mon, and that it were more employed for such a noble 
purpose. 



CHAPTER XYL 



Preventing Diseases. Judicious Treatment of Them. Proper 
Use op Medicine and Physicians. 

Diseases, as has been already shown, belong, for the 
most part, to those causes which shorten life, and are 
even capable of breaking the vital thread abruptly. 
The business of medicine is to guard against these, as 



JUDICIOUS APPLICATION OF MEDICINE. 271 

well as to cure them j and so far medicine may be con- 
sidered and employed as a means for prolonging life. 

But error, here is too common. Sometimes it is be- 
lieved that this beneficial art can never be sufficiently 
employed, and that people can never take too many 
medicines. Sometimes it is so much abhorred, as some- 
thing unnatural, that too few are used; and some- 
times the falsest conceptions are formed of medicine, 
as well as of physicians; and both are employed in an 
improper manner. To this may be added, in modern 
times, a multitude of popular books, by which a great 
deal of crude, undigested information on medical sub- 
jects has been diffused among the public ) and hence a 
greater misapplication of medicine has been occasioned, 
and the utmost injury to the health of mankind in 
general. 

It is impossible for every one to be a physician. 
Physic is a science so extensive and difficult, that it 
requires close and long-continued study, and even a 
peculiar formation of mind and of the higher powers 
of the soul. An acquaintance with the rules and means 
for curing diseases does not form a physician, as some 
imagine. These rules and means are the result of med- 
ical experience ; and he only who can perceive the con- 
nection of them with the causes of disease, and the 
whole chain of grounds and inferences from which they 
are deduced, in a word, who can himself discover these 
means, deserves to be called a physician. From this 
it appears that the art of medicine never can be known 
by the generality of the public. 

That branch of the medical art only which teaches 
an acquaintance with the human body, so far as it may 
be useful for every man to know, and the method and 
manner of guarding against diseases and preserving 
health, both individually and generally, can, or ought 



272 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

to form a part of that instruction and information which 
should be communicated to the public. This is evident 
from the simple idea of disease, and the helps to be ap- 
plied. What is meant by administering medicines and 
curing diseases? Nothing else than by an unusual 
impression to produce an unusual change in the human 
body, by which an unnatural state named disease may 
be removed. Disease and the operation of medicines 
are each an unnatural state ; and the application of 
medicine is nothing else than exciting an artificial dis- 
ease, in order to expel one that is natural. This may 
be seen when a man in good health takes physic, which 
will always render him ill in a greater or less degree. 
The use of medicine is, therefore, of itself prejudicial; 
and can be excused and rendered healthful only when 
a more diseased state of the body is thereby re- 
moved. This right of making one's self or others sick 
artificially, ought never to be exercised but by those 
who are sufiiciently able to discover what proportion 
the disease may bear to the means ; consequently, by 
physicians; otherwise it may happen that, when the 
means perhaps are altogether unnecessary, one may 
be rendered ill; or that the means will not be suited 
to the disease, and therefore the poor patient must suf- 
fer under two maladies instead of having one; or that 
the means may promote and increase the diseased 
state already existing. In cases of disease it will be 
far better to use no medicine at all, than to employ 
that which is not proper. 

As none, therefore, but people regularly bred, ought 
to be allowed to practise medicine, this important ques- 
tion arises : How must medicine he used when we wish to 
employ it as a means for prolonging life? In order to 
answer the above question, I shall here give some gen- 
eral rules and definitions. 



JUDICIOUS APPLICATION Or MEDICINE. 273 

But, first, let me be permitted to say a few words on 
a part of this research, which, though most interesting 
to the physician, is of too much importance even to 
others to be passed over in silence. I mean. How does 
the practice of physic, in general, contribute to the prolonga- 
tion of life ? Can one consider it absolutely as a means 
for prolonging our existence ? Without doubt we can, 
so far as it cures disorders that might destroy us, but 
not always in other respects; and T shall here add, for 
the consideration of my medical brethren, a few obser- 
vations which may show that to restore health and 
prolong life are not the same ; and that the point is not 
merely to cure a disease, but how it is cured. First, it 
is certain, from what has been said, that medicine oper- 
ates by occasioning an artificial illness. Every disease 
is attended with irritation and a loss of power. If the 
medicine, therefore, be more powerful than the disease, 
the patient will be cured ; but he will be more weak- 
ened by the process of the cure, and more will be de- 
ducted from the duration of his life than would have 
been taken from it by the disease. This is the case 
when people, on trifling occasions, employ immediately 
the most powerful and the most violent medicines. 
Secondly, a disease may be cured by various ways and 
methods. The difference is, that one leads the crisis 
sometimes to one part, and sometimes to another; or 
that the disorder is removed sooner by one method, 
and more slowly by another. These different modes of 
cure may all, however, lead to a restoration of health, 
but be of very different effect in regard to the prolonga- 
tion of life. The more a cure allows the disease to con- 
tinue, and to weaken the powers and the organs, or the 
more it affects the organs necessary for life, or con- 
ducts the disease thither, and consequently impedes 
afterwards vital restoration (as for example, when the 



274 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

important s^^stem of digestion is made the seat of the 
disease, and weakened by powerful remedies); or, lastly, 
the more a cure wastes unnecessarily the vital power 
in general, as by too profusely bleeding, withdrawing 
the usual nourishment too incessantly, &c., the more 
will it weaken the grounds of longevity, even though 
it may remove the disease. Thirdly^ one must never 
forget that disease itself may be useful and necessary 
for prolonging life. There are many diseases which 
are nothing else than an exertion of Nature to restore 
the equilibrium that has been destroyed, to evacuate 
corrupted matter, or to dissipate obstructions. If a 
physician, therefore (according to the true Brownonian 
method), does nothing more than check the disease 
from showing itself outwardly, without paying atten- 
tion to remote causes and consequences, he only de- 
stroys the active counteraction of Nature, by which it 
endeavors to remove the real disease; he quenches the 
fire outwardly, but suffers it to burn more violently 
within. He nourishes the germ, the material cause of 
the evil, which perhaps would have been banished by 
this process of Nature had it been suffered to be com- 
pleted, and renders it stronger and more incurable. We 
have too many instances of patients who believed them- 
selves perfectly cured of a fever or the dj^sentery, and 
who afterwards became hectic, or fell into the hypo- 
chondriasis, nervous weakness, and the like. No one 
will deny that such a cure, though it seems for the 
present to restore the patient to health, may neverthe- 
less shorten the duration of his life. 

I shall now proceed to answer a question which con- 
cerns those onl}^ who are not physicians: By what 
7neans can diseases be prevented; how ought those which 
have already appeared to be treated ; and, in particular, 
how ought physicians and the medical art to be employed 



PREVENTION OF DISEASES. 275 

in order to contribute in the highest degree possible to the 
support and prolongation of life ? 

But let me first speak of the means to be used for 
preventing diseases. As there are two things which 
belong to the origin of every disease, the cause that ex- 
cites it, and the capacity of the body for being affected 
by this cause, there are two ways by which disease 
may be prevented, either to remove that cause, or to 
destroy the sensibility of the body in regard to it; and 
upon this is founded the whole medical, dietetic^ and all 
the preventive methods. The first method, which has 
been most commonly pursued, is the most uncertain ; 
for, as long as we are not able to alter our mode of liv- 
ing, it will be impossible to guard against every cause 
of disease; and the more we deviate from it, the more 
we shall be affected by them when they attack us. For 
instance, cold never hurts any one so much as those 
who, in general, keep themselves exceedingly warm. 
Far better is the second method, to endeavor to guard 
against those causes of disease which can be avoided ; 
and to accustom one's self to the rest, in order that the 
body may be rendered insensible to them. 

The principal causes of disease, which can, in a great 
measure, be guarded against, are, intemperance in 
eating and drinking, immoderate enjoyment of physical 
love, great heat and cold, or a sudden transition from 
the one to the other; passions, violent exertion of the 
mind, too much or too little sleep, checked evacuations, 
and poisons. 

One ought, however, to render the body less suscep- 
tible of these causes, or to harden it pathologically ; and 
for that purpose I recommend the following means : 
First, the daily enjoyment of free air. In good or bad 
weather, during rain, wind, or snow, the excellent 
practice of walking or riding for a few hours in the 



276 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

open air, must be continued every day without exception. 
This will contribute in an incredible degree to harden 
the constitution, and to promote longevity; and, when 
done daily, the body will soon become so strong as to 
be affected by no kind of weather. It is to be recom- 
mended, therefore, in particular, to those who are sub- 
ject to the gout and the rheumatism. — Secondly, to 
wash daily the whole body with cold water ; not to keep 
one's self too warm, and to preserve the activity of the 
body. Never let the body sink into too passive a state, 
but endeavor, by muscular motion, friction, and gym- 
nastic exercises, to keep up in it a kind of counteraction. 
The more passive the body is, the more susceptible will 
it be of disease. Lastly, a certain freedom and im- 
munity from restraint in your way of life ; that is to 
say, do not bind yourself too rigidly to certain rules and 
habits, but allow yourself a moderate indulgence. 
Those who confine themselves with too much severity 
to order and regimen, be they ever so good, make them- 
selves thereby more susceptible of disease; for if they 
deviate in the least from what is now become to them 
a second nature, some kind of indisposition will be the 
consequence. A little irregularity, by the gentle revo- 
lutions which it effects in the body, may be of great use 
in purifying, opening, and dissipating; and even perni- 
cious things lose a great deal of their noxious quality 
when one is accustomed to them. A little less sleep 
than usual ; to drink sometimes a glass more than com- 
mon ; to eat a little more food, or substances harder of 
digestion ; to expose one's self to cold or heat by riding, 
dancing, and the like; to take exercise till one is tired, 
and sometimes to fast a day, are all means, therefore, 
that contribute to harden the body, and which give 
more latitude to the health, as they free it from too 



KNOWLEDGE OP THE CONSTITUTION. 277 

slavish a dependence on the uniformity of habit, to 
which it is not always possible for us to be confined. 

A grand point in guarding against disease is, that 
'every one should try to discover to what malady he is 
constitutionally most disposed, in order that this ten- 
dency may be destroyed, or at least that all opportunity 
of its being converted into disease may be removed. 
On this is grounded individual regimen ; and every man 
ought to observe that which is proper for him, so far 
as to counteract his particular morbific disposition. To 
inquire into and determine this point is indeed the busi- 
ness principally of the medical practitioner; and I am 
therefore of opinion, that people, on a subject of so 
much moment, should consult an intelligent physician, 
and allow him to judge what diseases they have the 
greatest disposition to, and what regimen may be best 
suited for them. In this respect the ancients were 
more prudent than we. They employed the medical 
art and physicians chiefly for determining that dietetic 
mode of life; and even their astrological, chiromantic, 
and other researches of the like kind, tended, at bottom, 
to define the moral and physical character of man, and 
to prescribe for hira accordingly a proper mode of living 
and regimen. They undoubtedly did much better in 
thus employing their physicians than if they had run 
to them every week to make them prescribe for them 
purgatives or emetics. But for this purpose a judicious, 
prudent, and acute physician is necessary ; while, on 
the other hand, any empiric is capable of writing a 
prescription. These people, at any rate, had a surer 
means of distinguishing a false from a true prophet. 

That those unacquainted with the medical art may 
be enabled, as much as possible, to determine the nature 
of their constitution, and what tendency it has to dis- 
ease, I shall here give the following rules : 

24 



278 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

1st. Examine what disposition to disease you inherit 
from your parents. There are certain morbific ten- 
dencies which may be communicated by generation, 
such as to the gout, indigestion, nervous weakness, and 
consumption. If these evils have taken root in the 
parents, there is great reason to suspect a disposition 
to them in the children. By a proper regimen they 
can, however, be prevented from attaining to a great 
height. 

2d. A disposition to some disorders may be created 
by the first treatment in infancy; especially if a child 
be kept too warm, which excites a tendency to perspi- 
ration, renders the skin flaccid, and by these means, 
disposes the body to rheumatic disorders. Too early 
application to" learning, gives a tendency to nervous 
weakness, and diseases of the nerves. 

3d. A tendency to certain diseases is connected with 
some forms and kinds of bodily structure. Those who 
are tall and thin, who have a long slender neck, a flat 
breast, projecting shoulders, and who have grown up 
suddenly to a great height, must be on their guard 
chiefly against consumpti(^ns, and in particular as long 
as they are under the age of thirty. Those who have 
a short thickset body, a large thick head, with a short 
neck, so that the head seems to be stuck between the 
shoulders, show a disposition to apoplexy : and must 
beware of everything that may give occasion to that 
disease. In general, all overgrown people have a ten- 
dency more or less to consumption and disorders of the 
breast. 

4th. Every man ought carefully to examine his tem- 
perament. If it be sanguine or choleric, it gives a ten- 
dency to inflammation; but if phlegmatic or melan- 
cholic, to chronic diseases and weakness of the nerves. 

5th. The climate also, and the spot in which one 



KNOWLEDGE OP THE CONSTITUTION. 279 

lives, may create a tendency to disease. If they are 
cold and damp, one may rest assured that they will 
produce a disposition td nervous and bilious fevers, 
ague, gout, and rheumatism. 

6th. To pay attention, in particular, to one's weakest 
part is of importance. Every man, in a physical sense, 
has his weak side ; and all causes of disease are accus- 
tomed, in general, to fix themselves in those parts which 
are by nature weakest. Those, for example, who have 
weak lungs, will be affected chiefly in that part ; and 
everything almost will give rise to a catarrh or disorder 
of the chest. If the stomach be weak, it will be acted 
upon by every slight cause ; and indigestion, crudity, 
and foulness of it, will be the consequence. If one is 
acquainted with these parts, one may contribute very 
much to the prevention of disease, and the prolongation 
of life; partly by guarding them against morbific 
causes, and partly by strengthening them, and depriving 
them of their too great sensibility. As much depends, 
therefore, on acquiring the art how to discover the 
weakest parts of one's body, I shall give the following 
signs, which may be understood by those even who are 
not physicians: Observe on what parts any mental 
shock or violent affection produces the greatest ef- 
fect ; for these are the weakest. If these causes im- 
mediately excite a cough or uneasy sensation in the 
chest, the lungs are the part pointed out: if they oc- 
casion a compression of the stomach, flatulency, and 
the like, one may be assured that the weak part is the 
stomach. Observe also where the effects of other mor- 
bific influences are reflected ; as, for example, the effects 
of a surfeit, a cold, overheating, violent exercise, &c. 
If the chest be attacked, that may be considered as the 
weakest part. It is of equal importance to observe 
which way the blood and juices have the greatest ten- 



280 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

dency : what parts are usually the reddest and the hot- 
test, and where perspiration appears in the greatest 
abundance; for there, if the rest of the body do not 
j^erspire, will disease most readily fix itself. One may 
also, in general, conclude that any part which one uses 
violently and immoderately, or which one overstrains, 
will become weaker : for example, the brain among 
studious people : the chest among singers; the stomach 
among gluttons, &c. 

I shall now proceed to answer the question, In what 
manner should a disease which has already taken place he 
treated, and what use ought to be made of physicians and 
of the medical art ? The most important part of the 
answer may be reduced to the following rules : 

1st. Never use medicine without a sufficient cause; 
for, who wish to make themselves sick unnecessarily? 
The custom, therefore, of purging, bleeding, and the 
like, at stated periods, merely for the purpose of guard- 
ing against a possible evil, is highly prejudicial. This 
practice often gives rise to those disorders which one 
endeavors to avoid. 

2d. It is much better to prevent diseases than to 
cure them ; for the latter is always connected with a 
greater loss of the powers, and consequently of vital 
duration. Let the above means, therefore, for guard- 
ing against them be carefully observed. 

3d. As soon, however, as disease makes its appear- 
ance, the greatest attention ought to be paid to it ; for 
the most trifling indisposition may conceal under it a 
very serious malady. This is the case, in particular, 
with feverish disorders. The commencement of them 
is shown by the following symptoms: One experiences 
an uncommon lassitude, the appetite fails, and one has 
a much greater desire for drinking; the sleep is inter- 
rupted or disturbed by dreams ; the usual excretions 



QUALITIES OP A PHYStCIAN. 281 

are checked, or increased in an unnatural manner; 
one has no inclination for labor, and is affected by 
headache, and a greater or less degree of coldness, 
which is followed by heat. 

4th. As soon as one perceives these symptoms, noth- 
ing is so necessary as to lessen one's nourishment, 
which strengthens the disease, and to follow the be- 
neficent instinct of Nature, which every animal, to its 
great advantage, obeys on such occasions. Let the 
patient abstain from eating; for Nature, by rejecting 
food, shows that she is incapable of digesting it; and 
let him drink a little more than usual, but only water, 
or some other light beverage. One ought also to be 
kept quiet ; to lie in the best position, for the lassitude 
sufiiciently shows that Nature requires her strength 
for modifying the disease; and one ought to avoid 
both heat and cold, consequently should neither go out 
into the open air, nor be shut up in a warm apartment. 
These simple means, prescribed to us so clearly by 
Nature herself, are capable, would we only listen to her 
voice, of checking an infinite number of diseases in their 
very birth. Old Macklin, that veteran of the London 
stage, who died in his 99th year, used to say, that, when 
he found himself ill, during the long course of his life, he 
always went to bed — took nothing but bread and water 
— and that by this regimen he was generally relieved 
from every slight indisposition. I knew a respectable 
magistrate of fourscore, who, when indisposed, did 
nothing else than fast, smoke tobacco, and observe the 
above rules ; by which means he had never occasion 
for medicine. 

5th. If one has an oportunity of conversing with a 
physician, he ought to be consulted, not so much re- 
specting prescriptions, as the state of one's body. 
Should such an opportunity be wanting, it is much bet- 

24* 



282 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

ter to prevent by the negative method an increase of 
the disease, than to employ anything positive, which 
may perhaps do hurt. Ko medicine, indeed, ought to 
be considered as a matter of indifference. Purgatives 
even, if used at an improper time, may be highly prej- 
udicial. If my readers be desirous of knowing the 
most harmless, it is a teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
stirred round in a glass of water; or the following 
draught, which certainly is one of the most general 
remedies for feverish disorders: Take half an ounce of 
cream of tartar, and boil it with six pounds of water, in 
a new earthen pot, until the powder is wholy dissolved. 
After it is taken from the fire, add to it an orange cut 
into slices, with from an ounce and a half to three 
ounces of sugar, according to taste, and then put it 
into bottles for use. This may serve as one's common 
beverage. 

6th. Be ingenuous with your physician, and give him 
a true account of your past life, so far as it may relate 
to the disease ; and forget no unfavorable circumstance, 
especially when the case is stated in writing. Avoid, 
in particular, all reasoning on it, which is a common 
fault, or of giving any representation according to a 
preconceived opinion, but relate merely what you have 
observed in as unprejudiced a manner as possible. 

7th. Make choice of a physician in whom you can 
place confidence, but none of those who deal in arcana, 
who are too talkative or inquisitive, who value them- 
selves above others, or who endeavor to make the con- 
duct of others appear in a dubious light ; for this always 
betrays ignorance, a bad head, or a bad heart ; in short, 
none of those who are fond of prescribing strong power- 
ful medicines, or who, according to the common saying, 
will either cure or kill. 

8th. Avoid in particular a physician whose principal 



QUALITIES OF A PHYSICIAN. 283 

object in his practice is avarice or ambition. A real 
physician ought to have no objects but the health and 
preservation of his patients; any others mislead him 
from the true path, and may be attended with the most 
prejudicial consequences to those who employ him. If 
he happen to be so situated with a case that either his 
reputation or his pocket will suifer if he venture any- 
thing for the relief of his patient, he will certainly 
rather allow the patient to die than lose his reputa- 
tion. He will also be interested in the fate of his pa- 
tients, in proportion to their rank and their riches. 

9th. The best physician is he who is at the same time 
a friend. One may be open-hearted with such a man, 
and place confidence in him. He is acquainted with 
his patients, and observes them in a state of health, 
which is of the utmost importance to enable him to 
treat them in a proper manner when attacked by dis- 
ease. In short, he is strongly interested in their con- 
dition, and will exert himself with more activity and 
attention to restore their health, than the physician 
who acts merely in that capacity. People, therefore, 
ought to do everything in their power to unite them- 
selves in the tenderest bonds of friendship with their 
physician ; and never to dissolve their intimacy by 
want of confidence, peevishness, pride, or any other im- 
propriety of behavior, which is so often shown to- 
wards physicians, but always with more injury to the 
patient. 

10th. Be greatly on your guard against any physician 
who prepares and employs secret medicines; for he is 
either an interested man, who values his own advan- 
tage far above the lives and health of his patients, or 
an ignorant impostor; and no impostor is more destruc- 
tive than he who deprives you not only of your money, 
but also of your health. If a secret be of any value, 



284 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

and useful to mankind, it should be the property of the 
public, and ought to be made known for the general 
benefit; and he who discloses it, is entitled without 
doubt to immortal honor. Those also who conceal such 
remedies do injury to thousands; because people cannot 
use them properly, not being well enough acquainted 
with them ; or because they cannot be procured in com- 
mon, and be employed by a judicious physician. 

11th. Nowhere, in general, ought one to be more at- 
tentive to morality of character than in the choice of 
a physician ; for where is it more necessary? If he to 
whom you blindl}^ intrust your life, who is subject to 
no tribunal but that of his conscience, and who, to dis- 
charge in a complete manner the duty of his calling, 
must sacrifice all rest and pleasure, nay his own health 
and life, if this man do not act according to the pure 
principles of morality, but makes policy, as it is called, 
his motive, he is a detestable and dangerous character, 
and ought to be avoided with greater care than the 
most destructive disease. A physician without morals 
is not a nonentity — -he is a monster. 

12th. If people, however, meet with an able and 
honest physician, they ought to trust themselves to 
him with full confidence. This will tend to make the 
minds of the patients quiet, and be of great service to 
assist the physician in effecting a cure. Many believe, 
that the more physicians they collect around them, the 
more certain they must be of relief; but this is a gross 
error. I here speak from experience. One physician 
is better than two — two than three — and so on in pro- 
portion. In the same ratio as physicians are increased 
will the probability of cure decrease; and in my 
opinion, there is a certain point of medical overloading, 
in which a cure is physically impossible. Some cases, 
indeed, may occur, but very seldom, in which a disor- 



SELECTION OP A PHYSICIAN. 285 

der, by being secret or complex, may require a consul- 
tation of several. One, however, ought to call only 
those who are known to be judicious men, and who 
will act in concert ; and to employ such consultations 
for discovering and defining the disease, and to form a 
plan of the method to be followed in the cure. The 
application of it should always be permitted to one, 
and to that practitioner in whom people have the great- 
est confidence. 

13th. One ought carefully to observe the crises, or 
helps and means of which Nature seems to be fondest, 
and which she perhaps may have employed on former 
occasions, and whether she is accustomed to assist her- 
self by perspiration, diarrhoea, bleeding at the nose, or 
otherwise. The same means one must endeavor to 
promote in every disease of the like kind; and such 
information is of great importance to the physician. 

14th. To pay attention to cleanliness is a precept in- 
dispensably necessary to be observed in regard to every 
disease; for by means of dirt, any disorder may be con- 
verted into one putrid, and far more dangerous. By 
neglecting this point, therefore, people injure not only 
their friends and relations, but also, the physician, w^ho 
may thus be deprived of his own health. The patient's 
linen on this account, ought to be changed daily, but 
at the same time with some caution ; the air ought to 
be renewed in his apartment, and all offensive matters 
should be speedily conveyed from it. As few people 
as possible should be suffered to continue in it; and all 
animals, flowers, remains of food, old clothes, and in 
short everything that may produce evaporation, ought 
to be removed from it. 



286 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE, 



CHAPTEE XYIL 

Relief in Cases where One is exposed to the Danger op Sudden 
Death. 

There are certain causes which, w^here the health is 
perfectly sound, and where one has the best capacity 
for long life, may suddenly interrupt and destroy the 
vital operations. I here allude to the violent causes of 
sudden death ; and as to lessen these, or to render 
them harmless, is an important part of the art of pre- 
serving and prolonging life, I shall lay before my read- 
ers what information may be necessary on the subject. 

To this head belong all violent kinds of death, which 
may be effected either by mechanical injuries, or or- 
ganic derangement; and they may all be reduced to 
three classes. They either render the vital organs un- 
fit for performing their functions ; destroy suddenly 
the vital power, as lightning, violent passion, and the 
greater part of the poisons ; or they suddenly destroy 
vital irritability, without the continual agency of which 
there could be no vital exertion. 

The method of counteracting these is twofold. One 
can either guard against them, or destroy their effect 
after they have already begun to act. 

I shall first speak of the means by which one can 
guard against them. It is impossible to keep at a dis- 
tance all these causes ; for they are so connected with 
our life, and in particular with the employment of 
many, that one must resign life itself in order to avoid 
them. We can, however, procure to our bodies a great 
degree of immunity from them, and give it some prop- 



RELIEF IN CASES OF VIOLENT DEATH. 287 

erties by which it will be put in such a condition as 
to sustain little or no hurt from them when they ap- 
proach it. There is, therefore, an objective and a sub- 
jective art of guarding against the dangers of death ; 
and the latter is that in which every one should en- 
deavor to acquire a certain degree of perfection. In 
my opinion, it is necessary for the formation and edu- 
cation of man. The means are exceedingly simple. 

1st. Endeavor to give to the body the utmost pos- 
sible agility and readiness in all bodily exercises. A 
sufficient cultivation of the corporeal powers, by run- 
ning, climbing, tumbling, swimming, walking, on any 
narrow ridge, &c., will be a great means of securing 
one from dangerous accidents ; and were such a part 
of education more common, fewer people would lose 
their lives by drowning, falls, and other misfortunes of 
the like kind. 

2d. The judgment should be formed, and one's knowl- 
edge rectified, by the study of Natural Philosophy and 
Natural History, in regard to every pernicious power. 
To this belongs an acquaintance with the nature of 
poisons; the properties of lightning, and the means of 
avoiding it; the noxious quality and effects of mephitic 
air, frost, &c. To give sufficient cautions on this sub- 
ject, it would be necessary for me to write a whole 
treatise; and I sincerely wish that some one would 
undertake such a work, and that it may be introduced 
into schools. 

3d. Endeavor to render the mind intrepid; to give 
it strength and philosophical equanimity; and accus- 
tom it to sudden and unexpected events. This will be 
doubly beneficial. One will thereby guard against the 
physical injury of sudden and alarming impressions, 
and will have more presence of mind to pursue the 
means proper to be used in cases of sudden danger. 



288 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

4th. Give to the body a sufficient degree of harden- 
ing against cold and heat, or any changes of the like 
kind. Those who possess this property will be able to 
brave death on many occasions, when others will be 
obliged to submit to it. 

But, in regard to the danger of death actually exist- 
ing : What is to be done in cases of drowning, hanging, 
suffocation, poisoning, or being struck with lightning, 
&c. ? Even here there are means by which persons 
apparently dead have been happily brought again to 
life; and this is a part of medicine which every man 
should understand, for such accidents may occur to 
every one, and everything de^oends on assistance being 
given speedily. In cases of so much danger each mo- 
ment is precious ; and the simplest means employed 
immediately may effect more than the whole wisdom 
of an ^sculapius could half an hour later. He who 
first arrives when an accident has taken place should 
consider it as his duty to apply help instantaneously, 
and carefully reflect that the life of an unfortunate 
being may depend on a minute sooner or later. 

The violent kinds of death, in regard to their treat- 
ment, may be divided into three classes. 

The first class comprehends suffocation by hanging^ 
drowning, or foul air, and death, or the being struck, 
by lightning, with the mode of treatment. The first 
and most effectual means in such cases are the follow- 
ing : 

1st. Be as expeditious as you can to draw the body 
from the water, or to cut the rope, in a word, to remove 
the cause of death. This alone is sufficient to save the 
unfortunate person if it be done speedily ; but attention 
to that point is too much neglected. In most places 
apparatus is kept for giving relief in such cases; but 
people in general are so slow in applying it, that one 



RELIEF IN CASES OF VIOLENT DEATH. 289 

might believe it intended rather for the funeral cere- 
mony, than for saving the life of a fellow-creature. I 
am, therefore, fully convinced, that better machinery 
for dragging up the bodies of drowned persons would 
be far more valuable than all the apparatus for restor- 
ing suspended animation ; and when one sees how un- 
willingly and in how awkward a manner people under- 
take this business, how averse they are to it, and what 
prejudice prevails against it, one will not wonder that 
so few unfortunate persons should be saved in Germany. 
I must therefore entreat all governments to endeavor 
to bring this part of the establishment for restoring life 
to greater j)erfection ; and here I include rooting out 
prejudice,* disputes respecting jurisdiction, the pay- 
ment of the reward, and the punishment of voluntary 
delay. 

2d. The body should bo immediately stripped, and 
every endeavor should be made as speedily as possible 
to excite in it a general warmth. Heat is the first and 
most general stimulus of life. The same means which 
Nature employs to quicken life in the beginning, are 
also the most powerful to produce life a second time. 
The best thing for that purpose is the tepid bath ; but 
if this cannot be had, the patient may be covered with 
warm sand, ashes, or thick blankets in a bed ; and hot 
stones should be applied to various parts of the body. 
Without these means all others will be of little avail ; 

* Of this kind is the shameful dread of the dishonor and dis- 
grace which attend the touching of such unfortunate people ; the 
diabolical superstition of many fishermen, that one must not draw 
the body of a drowned person from the water before sunset, in 
order that the fish may not be frightened away ; or that some 
rivers must have an annual offering ; and other ideas of the like 
kind, which prevail among the vulgar much more than one might 
imagine. 

25 



290 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

and it is much better to warm thoroughly persons ap- 
parently dead, than to use cupping, friction, or the like, 
and at the same time to suffer them to become stiff 
with cold. 

3d. To convey air into the lungs is the next process 
in point of importance, and may be connected with the 
excitation of heat. It is, indeed, most beneficial when 
it is done with oxygen gas by means of a pipe and a 
pair of bellows. But in urgent cases, and to save pre- 
cious time, it will be sufficient if one presses on the 
chest so as to expel the air which it contains, and then, 
by withdrawing the pressure, allows it to expand by its 
own elasticity, and thus fill the lungs with air. This 
should be done with regularity, so as to imitate ordi- 
nary breathing. 

4th. Let fall now and then, from a. certain height, 
drops of frigid water or wine on the pit of the stomach. 
This sometimes has given the first stimulus to restore 
the motion of the heart. 

5th. Eub with a cloth or flesh-brush the hands and 
soles of the feet, the belly and the back : irritate the 
sensible parts of the body, such as the soles of the feet 
and hollow of the hands, by friction with stimulating 
oils ; the nose and throat, by means of a feather, or by 
holding to the nostrils, and dropping on the tongue, 
volatile spirit of ammonia, &c. 

6th. As soon as signs of life begin to appear, pour a 
spoonful of good wine into the mouth ; and when the 
patient swallows it, repeat the same thing often. In 
cases of necessity brandy may be used, but mixed with 
two-thirds of water. 

7th. For those who have been struck by lightning, 
the earth bath is to be recommended. The body may 
be either laid with the mouth open against a spot of 



SUSPENDED ANIMATION. 291 

earth newly dug up, or fresh earth may be scraped 
round it up to the neck. 

If these simple means, which every one can and 
ought to use in regard to his fellow-citizens, when ex- 
posed to the danger of sudden death, be speedily em. 
ployed, they will be of more service than the most com- 
plete apparatus applied half an hour later ; and at any 
rate the intermediate time will not be entirely lost, and 
the feeble vital spark may be prevented from being to- 
tally extinguished. 

In the second class is comprehended those who have 
been frozen. These require a mode of treatment en- 
tirely different; for by warmth they would be destroyed 
altogether. Nothing further is to be done than to im- 
merse them in snow up to the head; or to place them 
in a bath of the coldest water that can be procured 
without being frozen. Here life will return of itself; 
and as soon as any signs of it appear, give the patients 
a little warm tea with wine, and put them to bed. 

The third class contains those who have been poi- 
soned. It is here to be observed, that we are in pos- 
session of two invaluable remedies, proper for any 
poison, which may be everywhere found, and which re- 
quire no previous acquaintance with medicine — I mean 
milk and oil. By the help of these only, the most dread- 
ful of all the kinds of poisoning, that by arsenic, has 
been cured. Both of them answer the principal ob- 
ject, which is to expel the poison, or to destroy its 
power. Let persons, therefore, who have been poi- 
soned, drink as much milk as they can (if it in part 
comes up again, so much the better); and let them, 
every quarter of an hour, take a cupful of oil of any 
sort; for it is all the same whether it be oil of linseed, 
almonds, poppies, or common oil. If it be known with 
certainty that the poison i^ arsenic, corrosive sublimate, 



292 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

or any other metallic salt, dissolve soap in water, and 
let the patient swallow it. This will be sufficient till 
the physician arrive, and will often render his assist- 
ance'unnecessary. 



CHAPTER XYIII. 

Old Age. Proper Treatment of It. 

Old age, though the natural consequence of living, 
and the commencement of death, can itself, on the other 
hand, be a means for prolonging our existence. It does 
not, however, increase the power to live, but it retards 
its being exhausted; and one may thus affirm, that a 
man in the last period of life, at the time when his 
powers are lessened, would, were he not old, finish his 
career sooner. 

This position, which appears to be somewhat para- 
doxical, is confirmed by the following explanation: 
Man, during the period of old age, has a much smaller 
provision of vital power, and a much less capacity for 
restoration. If he lived with the same activity and 
vigor as before, this provision would be much sooner 
exhausted, and death would soon be the consequence. 
Now the character of age lessens the natural irrita- 
bility and sensibility of the body, by which the effects 
of internal as well as external irritation, and con- 
sequently the exertion and wasting of the powers, 
are also lessened; and, on this account, as consumption 
is less, he can with such a stock of powers hold out 
much longer. The decrease of the intensity of the 
vital processes, as age increases, prolongs therefore 
vital duration. 



f 



TREATMENT OF OLD AGE. 298 

Irritability being thus lessened, lessens also the effect 
of pernicious impressions and morbid causes, such as 
the passions, overheating, &c.; it preserves likewise 
much greater quietness and uniformity in the internal 
economy, and in that manner secures the body from 
many diseases. It is observed that, for this reason also, 
old people are much less attacked by infectious dis- 
orders than those who are young. 

To this may be added the habit of living, which, 
without doubt, in the latter period of one's days, con- 
tributes to the support of life. An animal operation, 
which one has carried on so long, always in the same 
order and succession, becomes at last so customary that 
it continues through habit when the action of other 
causes ceases. It is often astonishing how the greatest 
debility of age will hold out, provided everything remain 
in its usual order and succession. The spiritual man is 
sometimes actually dead ; and yet the vegetative, the 
man-plant, still continues to live ; but for the latter, in- 
deed, much less is necessary. To this habit of life it is 
owing also that a man, the older he grows, becomes 
still fonder of existence. 

If old age, therefore, be properly treated and sup- 
ported, it can be employed, in some measure, as a means 
of prolonging life; but, as this requires deviations from 
the general laws, I consider it necessary to give the 
rules proper to be observed. 

The principal points in this treatment are, that one 
must always endeavor to lessen and soften the increas- 
ing dryness and rigidity of the vessels, which at length 
occasion a complete stoppage of the whole machine; 
that nourishment and restoration of what has been lost 
must be facilitated as much as possible ; that stronger 
irritation must be given to the body, because the natural 
irritability is so much weakened ; and that one must 

25* 



294 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

promote excretion of the corrupted particles, which in 
old age is so imperfect, and which therefore produces 
an impurity of the juices, that accelerates death. — Upon 
these are grounded the following rules : 

1st. As the natural heat of the body decreases in old 
age, one must endeavor to support and increase it ex- 
ternally as much as possible. Warm clothing, warm 
apartments and beds, heating nourishment, and, when 
it can be done, removal to a warmer climate, are all 
means, therefore, that contribute greatly to the pro- 
longation of life. 

2d. The food must be easy of digestion, rather fluid 
than solid; abundant in concentrated nourishment; 
and at the same time much more stimulating than would 
be advisable at an earlier period. Warm, strong, and 
well-seasoned soups are, therefore, beneficial to old age ; 
and also tender roast meat, nutritive vegetables, good 
nourishing beer, and, above all, oily generous wine, 
free from acid, earthy, and watery particles, &c., such 
as Tokay, Spanish, Cyprus, and Cape wines. Wine of 
this kind is one of the most excellent stimulants of life, 
and that best suited to old age. It does not inflame, 
but nourishes and strengthens ; it is milk for old people. 

3d. The tepid bath is exceedingly well calculated to 
increase the natural heat, to promote excretion, par- 
ticularly of the skin, and to lessen the aridity, and stifl- 
ness of the whole frame. 

4th. Guard against all violent evacuations, such as 
letting blood, unless when required by particular cir- 
cumstances ; strong purging, exciting perspiration by 
too much heat, indulging in excesses of any kind. 
These exhaust the few powers still remaining, and in- 
crease aridity. 

5th. People with increasing years should accustom 
themselves more and more to a certain order in all the 



TREATMENT OF OLD AGE. 295 

vital operations. Eating, drinking, motion, and rest, 
the evacuations, and employment, must have their de- 
termined periods and succession. Such mechanical 
order and regularity, at this season of life, may con- 
tribute greatly to the prolongation of it. 

6th. The body, however, must have exercise, but not 
violent or exhausting. That which is rather passive 
will be the best, such as riding in a carriage, and fre- 
quent friction of the whole skin, for which sweet- 
scented and strong ointments may be employed with 
great advantage^ in order to lessen the rigidity of the 
skin, and to preserve it in a state of softness. Yiolent 
bodily shocks must in particular be avoided. These, 
in general, lay a foundation for the first cause of death. 

7th. A pleasant frame of mind, and agreeable em- 
ployment for it, are here of uncommon utility; but 
violent passions, which might derange it, and which 
in old age may occasion instant death, ought to be 
avoided. That serenity and contentment which are 
excited by domestic felicity, by the pleasant review of 
a life spent not in vain, and by a consoling prospect of 
the future even on this side of the grave, are the most 
salutary. The frame of mind best fitted and most ben- 
eficial to old age, is that produced by intercourse with 
children and young people. Their innocent pastime 
and youthful frolics have something which tend, as it 
were, to renovate and revive. Hope, and extending 
our views of life, are in particular noble assistants for 
this purpose. New proposals, new plans and under- 
takings, which, however, must be attended with noth- 
ing dangerous, or that can create uneasiness, in a word, 
the means of continuing life longer in idea, may even 
contribute something towards the physical prolongation 
of it. We find, therefore, that old people are impelled 
to this, as if by internal instinct. They begin to build 



296 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

houses, to lay out gardens, &c. ; and seem, in this little 
self-deception, by which they imagine they secure life, 
to find an uncommon degree of pleasure. 



CHAPTEE XIX. 

Cultivation of the Mental and Bodily Powers. 

It is only by culture that man acquires perfection. 
If he is desirous of enjoying the pre-eminence of human 
nature, his spiritual as well as his physical powers 
must obtain a certain degree of expansion, refinement, 
and exaltation. In a rude and uncultivated state he 
is not a man : he is only a savage animal, who has cer- 
tain dispositions which fit him for becoming a man ; 
but as long as these dispositions are not expanded by 
culture, he is raised, neither physically nor morally, 
above the other classes of animals in the like situation. 
The essential part of man which he possesses is his sus- 
ceptibility of perfection; and his whole organization 
is so ordered that he may either become nothing or 
everything. 

The influence, therefore, which culture has in bring- 
ing to perfection the physical man, as well as in pro- 
longing life, is highly worthy of attention. It is gen- 
erally believed that all cultivation tends to weaken and 
to shorten physical existence; but this is the case only 
in regard to the extreme, for hyperculture, which makes 
man too delicate and refined, is as pernicious and un- 
natural as the other extreme, want of cultivation, when 
the faculties are not or have been too little expanded. 
By both of these, the duration of life is shortened. 



MENTAL AND PHYSICAL CULTIVATION. 297 

Neither the man, therefore who by culture has become 
too tender, or leads too sensual or too spiritual a life, 
nor the rude savage, ever attains to that term of life 
which man is actually capable of reaching. On the 
other hand, a proper and suitable degree of mental and 
bodily culture, and in particular a harmonic formation 
of all powers, is, as has been already shown, absolutely 
requisite before man can attain to that pre-eminence 
over animals, in his physical state and vital duration, 
of which he is really susceptible. 

It is well worth the trouble to examine and explain 
more accurately the influence which real culture has in 
prolonging life, and to establish how far it differs from 
that which is false. In lengthening our existence it 
acts in the following manner : 

It expands the organs to perfection, and conse- 
quently renders life richer as well as fuller of enjoy- 
ment; and occasions more abundant restoration. How 
many means of restoration, unknown to the savage, 
has the man who possesses a cultivated mind ! 

It renders the whole texture of the body somewhat 
softer and tenderer; consequently lessens that too 
great hardness which impedes duration of life. 

It secures us against those destructive and life-short- 
ening causes which deprive many savages of their ex- 
istence ; such as cold, heat, the influence of the weather, 
hunger, poisonous and pernicious substances, &c. 

By reason and moral formation it moderates and reg- 
ulates the passionate and merely animal part within 
us; teaches us to support misfortunes, injuries, and the 
like ; and by these means, moderates the too violent 
and active vital consumption, which would soon destroy 
us.' 

It is the foundation of social and political connec- 
tions, by which mutual aid, laws, and police establish- 



298 MEANS WHICH PROLONG LIFE. 

ments become possible ; and these have a mediate effect 
in prolonging life. 

Lastly, it makes ns acquainted with a multitude of 
conveniences and means for rendering life more agree- 
able, which are, indeed, less necessary in youth, but 
which are of the utmost importance in old age. Nour- 
ishment refined by the art of cookery, exercise made 
easier by artificial helps, more perfect refreshment and 
rest, are all advantages by which man in a cultivated 
state can support life much longer in old age, than man 
in the rude state of nature. 

From this it already appears what degree and what 
kind of culture are necessary in order to prolong life, — 
those which physically, as well as morally, have for 
their object the highest possible formation of our pow- 
ers, but which are always regulated by that supreme 
moral law, to which everything, to be good, suited to 
its end, and really beneficial, must have a relation. 



THE END. 



MEDICAL BOOKS 

PUBLISHED BY 

LINDSAY & BLAKISTON, Pliiladelpliia, 

And sent by mail free of postage upon receipt of Price affixed. 



Aitken's Practice of Medicine. 2 vols., royal octavo. Il- 
lustrated, 

Acton on the Keproductive Organs. Octavo, . 
Anstie on Stimulants and Narcotics, . 



$12 00 
3 00 
3 50 

By ford on Diseases of Women. Octavo. Illustrated, . 5 00 
" 2 00 

3 50 
1 50 

6 00 

7 50 



on the Uterus, 
Biddle's Materia Medica. Octavo. Illustrated, 
Branston's Practical Receipts. 12mo., 
Beale's How to Work the Microscope. Illustrated, 

" Microscope in Practical Medicine, " 
Beale on Urine and Urinary Deposits, 
Beasley's Book of Prescriptions. Octavo, . 
Druggist's Receipt Book. Octavo, 



4 00 
3 50 



Barth & Roger's Auscultation and Percussion. 12mo., . 1 25 

Bauer's Orthopedic Surgery. Illustrated, . . . . 1 50 

Bell on Baths and Bathing. 12mo., 1 50 

Bull's Maternal Management of Children. 12mo., . . 1 25 

Braithwaite's Epitome of Medicine. 2 vols., octavo, . 10 00 

" Retrospect of Medicine. Semi-annually, . 2 50 

British and Foreign Medico-Chirurg. Review. Quarterly, 10 00 

Chambers' Lectures. The Renewal of Life. Octavo, . 5 00 

Chew on Medical Education. 12mo., . . . . 1 00 
Cohen's Therapeutics of Inhalation. 12mo. Illustrated, 

Cazeaux's Obstetrical Text-Book, 8vo, Illustrated, . 6 00 

Canniff's Principles of Surgery. Octavo, . . . . 4 50 

Cleaveland's Pronouncing Medical Lexicon, . . . 1 25 

Carnochan's Operative Surger3^ 3 Parts. Per part, . 75 

Coxe's Epitome of Hippocrates and Galen. Octavo, . . 3 00 

Craigie's General and Pathological Anatomy. Octavo, . 3 00 

Dixon on Diseases of the Eye. 12mo. Illustrated, . . 2 50 

De Boismont's Hallucinations. Octavo, . . . . 2 50 
Durkee on Gonorrhoea and Syphilis. Octavo. Colored 

plates, 6 00 

Duchenne on Localized Electrization, .... 

Fuller on Rheumatism, Rheumatic Gout, &c. Octavo, . 3 00 

Flint on Continued Fever. Octavo, 2 00 

Gross's American Medical Biography. Octavo, . . 3 50 
Gardner on Sterility. Octavo, Colored plates, . . 3 00 
Garratt's Guide for Using Medical Batteries. Octavo, Il- 
lustrated, 2 00 

Hewitt on the Diseases of Women. New Edition. Octavo, 

Headland on the Action of Medicine. Octavo, . . . 3 00 

Hilles's Pocket Anatomist. 32mo,, . . . . . 1 00 

Hewson's Surgical Diagnosis, 

Henle's General Pathology. Octavo, . . . . 2 00 

Hufeland's Art of Prolonging Life, 1 25 



Jameson on Epidemic Cholera. Octavo, . . . . $2 00 
Mackenzie on the Laryngoscope. .Octavo. Illustrated, . 2 00 

'* on Diseases ofthe Throat. Octavo, . 

Morris on Scarlet Fever. Octavo, 
Meigs on Diseases of Children. Octavo, . 
Murphy's Review of Chemistry. 12mo., , 
Maxson's Practice of Medicine. Royal octavo, . 
Mendenhall's Medical Student's Vade Mecum. Illustrated 
Miller & Lizars on Alcohol and Tobacco. 12mo., 
Pennsylvania Hospital Reports. Octavo. Illustrated, 
Paget's Lectures on Surgical Pathology. Octavo. Illustrated, 
Powell's Pocket Formulary. With tucks and pocket, 
Pereira's Physician's Prescription Book, . . . 
Physician's Visiting List. Published annually. Various 

sizes and prices. 
Prince's Orthopedic Surgery. Octavo. Illustrated, . 
Reynolds on Diseases of the Brain, .... 
Radclifle on Epilepsy, Pain, Paralysis. 



12mo, 



12mo. Illustrated 
Illustrated, 



12mo., . 

Semi-annually, 
12mo., . 

12mo.,. 



Octavo, 



Illustrated, 
Octavo, . 



Robertson on Extracting Teeth. 

Richardson on Local Anaesthesia 

Remak's Electro-Therapeutics, 

Ryan's Philosophy of Marriage. 

Ranking's Half- Yearly Abstract. 

Reese's Analysis of Physiology. 

Reese's American Medical Formulary 

Reese's Syllabus of Chemistry. 12mo., 

Sydenham Society's Biennial Retrospect. 

Stmt's General Pathology, . . 

Stille on Epidemic Meningitis. Octavo, 

Sansom on Chloroform. 12mo., 

Scanzoni on Diseases of Women. Octavo. 

Stokes on Diseases of the Heart and Aorta 

Skoda on Auscultation and Percussion. 12mo., 

Tanner's Practice of Medicine. Royal octavo, . 

Tanner on Diseases of Children. Octavo, . 

Tanner's Index of Diseases. Octavo, .... 

Tanner's Memoranda of Poisons. 82mo., . 

Trousseau's Clinical Medicine. Octavo. Price per part 

Tyler Smith's Obstetrics. Octavo. Illustrated, 

Thompson on Pulmonary Consumption. Octavo. Illustrated 

Tilt's Elements of Female Hygiene. 12mo., 

Taj'lor's Movement Cure. 12mo. Illustrated, . 

Virchow's Cellular Pathology. Octavo, 

Virchow on Morbid Tumors, ..... 

Walker on Intermarriage. 12mo. Illustrated, 

Wythe's Pocket, Dose, and Sj^mptom Book. 32mo., 

Waring's Practical Therapeutics. Royal octavo, 

Walton's Operative Ophthalmic Surgery. Octavo. Illus 

trated, ......... 

Watson's Practice of Medicine. Abridged. 12mo. Flexi 

ble cloth, ........ 

Wright on Headaches, . . .... 

Zander on the Ophthalmoscope. Royal octavo. Illustrated, 



^A 



PLEASE 00 NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



BioMed 



