Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 




Schlesinger Library 
Radcliffe College 



Culinary Collection 

From the Collection of 
Sophie Coe 




n »«- 



Tai FiKsT Mbstihg of thx Heuht and the Txavellbr- 



^ , 



GOOD COOKEI^J 



ILLUSTRATED. % ' '^C/i(_ 

AND RECIPES COMMUNICATED BY THE WELSH HERMIT 
yyr/ W' OF THK CELL OF ST. GOXEK,^ ) 

'S ON^ANY THINGS _/ X,v/ ^ >' 



/■.^.rz .4A'/) PR^ 



THE RIGHT HON. LADY LLANOVER. 



LONDON : 

RICHARD BENTLEY, NEW BURLINGTON STREET, 

IJoblis^n in tfiliiirai]^ ta %a "S-WA^. 

1867. 



' -I 1 •- - 



J 



^^ SftDfittelr 9taien|}tt^ ei ran. 



tt 



TJu grain of sand has its portion of the beach. 



V : ■' 



CONTENTS. 



»AGS 

Introduction ix 

The First Principles of Good Cookery 1—288 

THE TRAVELLER'S NOTE BOOK. 



PAGE 

To the Editor of a Country 

Paper 289 

Poor Laws 295 

Oatmeal 305 

Dish of Frogs 307 

Dish of Marrow .... 307 

Dish of Eggs 308 

DishofCunis 308 

Dish of Eggs for a weak 

Stomach 310 

Lundieon 311 

A Rainy Day 313 



PACE 

Fattening of Cattle . . . 314 

Water Fountains .... 324 

Holly — Mistletoe— Ivy . . 333 

Roads, Hedges, and Banks 336 

Wall-Flowers ..... 343 

Sheep's Milk 345 

Goats ........ 349 

Feathers 351 

Moles ........ 355 

Bees 357 

London . 375 



APPENDIX. 



Boiled Fowl. • 381 

Parsley Sauce for Boiled 

Fowl 383 

Fricaseed Cold Chicken . 384 
Roast Leg of Mutton « .386 
Jelly from the Bones of 
Roast Legs of Welsh 
Mutton 387 



Stewed Beef 387 

Hashed Mutton .... . 389 
Simple White Soup . . . 390 
The White Soup of Gover . 391 
- The Hermit's Gravy Soup . 392 
Hashed Mutton (simple) . 394 

Mutton Pic -395 

Pea-Soup (Winter) . . ". 397 



VI 



Contents. 



PAGB 

Green Pea-Soup (Summer) 398 

Beef-Steak 399 

To Preserve Game or 
Poultry, or any sort of 
Meat, when required to 
be kept long before it is 

eaten 400 

Baked Fillet of Veal ... 401 

Tongue Boiled 402 

Tongue Roasted .... 403 
Hermit's Rabbit Fricasee . 404 
Hermit's Boiled Shoulder 

of Mutton 405 

Onion Sauce for Boiled 

Shoulder of Mutton . . 405 
Hermit's Sausages . . . 406 
The Hermit's Cold Veal Pie 407 

Salt Duck 408 

Green Pea-Soup .... 408 
Root of Tongue Soup . • 409 

To Clarify Fat 410 

Bread Sauce 412 

The Hermit's Marrow-Bones 41 2 
The Hermit's Soup for Poor 

People 413 

The Hermit's Sheep's-Head 

Broth 414 

Hermit's Chicken Boiled in 

ajue 415 

Minced Veal 415 

Haricot of Mutton . . . 416 

Lobster Sauce 418 

Shrimp Sauce 4x9 

South Wales Salmon . . 420 
Preservation of Telly Stocks 
for Soups in Summer and 

Winter 421 

Welsh Mutton Chops . . 423 

Boiled Eggs 424 

Baked Apple Dumplings . 424 
Granville Fish Sauce . . 425 

Meagre Soup 420 

Salt Beef 427 

Tongues, To Salt .... 429 
Frewi Pork, To Dress • . 430 
Hams, To Cure .... 432 
Brawii 433 



PAGB 

Pickle for Brawn .... 434 
Tapioca Puddine for Chil- 
dren or Invalids . . . 434 

Rice Pudding 435 

Rice Pudding without Eggs 435 
Cil Gover Biscuits . . . 436 
The Hermit* s Rock Cakes . 437 
The Hermit's Rice Bread . 437 
Rice Bread (another sort) . 438 
For St. Vitus's Dance . . 438 

Bees' Food 439 

Paste for Apple or other 

Tarts 439 

Quinces for addition to Apple 

Tarts 440 

Dry Herbs 440 

Raspberry Vinegar . . . 442 
Ducness of Bedford's Tea- 

Cakes 442 

Rhubarb Jam 443 

Apple Bread 443 

The Hermit's Mince-Pies . 444 
A complicated Veal Pie, but 

verygood, to be eaten cold 444 
The Welsh Hermit's favour- 
ite Chicken and Leek Pie 445 
The Hermit's Mutton Stew 446 

Roast Hare 447 

Hare Stuffing . . . . . 449 
Goose or Duck Stuffing . 449 

Veal Cutlets 449 

Welsh Leek Broth or Soup 45 1 
Shoulder of Veal Boiled . 452 
Glaze of Cow's-Heel . . . 453 
Mushroom Catchup . . . 454 
The Hermit's Bread and 

Butter Pudding .... 456 
Welsh Carrot Plum Pudding 457 

Another 457 

Family Plum Pudding . . 457 
Rowley Powley Puddmg . 459 
Bread Pudding .... 460 
Queen Charlotte's Orange 
Pudding . c . . . . 460 

Apple Snow 461 

Lemon Creams 461 

Lemon Jelly 462 



Contents. 



Vll 



PAGB 

Turin Sticks ...... 463 

Pumpkins 463 

Loss in Roasting a Webh 

Leg of Mutton .... 467 
Loss in Roasting an English 

Leg of Mutton .... 467 
The HeHnifs Baked Beef 

for Christmas .... 468 

Mushrooms 470 

Good Family Bread . . . 472 
Brown Bread ...... 472 

Welsh Pan or Pot Loaves , 473 



PAGB 

Oatmeal Cakes • • • . • 474 
Thick Welsh Barley Cakes 475 
Thin Welsh Barley Cakes . 475 

Cil Cover Buns 476 

Teisen Frau Gwent and Mor- 

ganwg 476 

For Harvest. Welsh Apple 

or Rhubarb Cake . . . 477 
Welsh Harvest Buns . . . 478 
Welsh Toasted Cheese . . 480 
Caws Wedi ei Bobi . . .481 



LIST OF ILL USTRA TIONS. 



Tpfact Page 

Plate I. Ffwrn Fach 24 

IL Digester ' 33 

III. Double Saucepan 35 

IV. Large Double yy 

V. BwcH (Welsh Wheat Stack) 256 

VI. Geifr (Welsh Barley Sheaf ) 257 

VII. English Wheat Sheaves 257 

VIII. Highways and Byeways, with Banks, 

Hedges, and Water 336 

IX. The Dangers of Highways and Byeways 
WHEN Hedges and Banks are not 

Fences 338 

X. Bee-Hives 358 

XI. Wooden Board used in Pickling ... 428 



INTRODUCTION 



Gentle Reader^ 

As the present work is intended for the 
especial benefit of those of gentle birth who 
may not have any very extensive knowledge of 
I economy in domestic practice, and as the Hero 
of the accompanying annals belonged to the 
last century, the commencement of this Intro- 
ductory Epistle is not misplaced ; and the 
Author has adopted the present form^ including 
dialogue remarks, annotations, and explanations, 
from experience of facts, which tend to prove 
that the multiplication of Cookery Books on 
the common plan has very little increased the 
amount of knowledge of the fundamental prin- 
ciples of the real art of Cookery and Domestic 
Economy. Whether the Master of the Cell 
of Cover will be more successful than his 



Introduction. 



predecessors in awakening the minds of the 
present generation to the necessity of under- 
standing themselves what ought to be done, 
and what avoided, to ensure a well-cooked 
dish, time alone will show ! — but if the Hermit 
only convinces a few persons, who desire to 
benefit their fellow-creatures, that those who 
want food might be benefited to an enormous 
extent, were it not for the ignorance of the 
majority of those who have enough, in matters 
of practical utility, the knowledge of which 
would prevent the destruction of millions of 
tons of the best food, this little book will not 

have been written in vain. 

* 

The Author has received, for the last- few 
years, numerous inquiries and applications, from 
friends, for information about certain simple 
dishes, which they had, in the course of their 
travels, tasted at the board of her friend the 
Hermit of Cover's Cell, and these applications 
have now increased to such an extent, that, find- 
ing it impossible to reply to them satisfactorily, 
a promise was given of "^ Book^^ the appearance 



Introduction. xi 



of which has been hastened by recent urgent 
demands for a receipt, How to make a Cook ? 

The Author does not profess to write a Tale. 
The present little volume is for the avowed 
purpose of instruction in Cookery, Domestic 
Economy, and other matters involving home 
comfort, for which the narrative is merely a 
vehicle. Where quantities are mentioned, they 
have been generally extracted and translated 
from a day-book, kept in Welsh by the Hermit's 
first hand (Gwenllian, the senior widow), which 
day-book was made from original Welsh memo 
randa in white chalk, on the door of the Larder, 
made by Marged, the Hermit's second hand, as 
the materials were weighed, and their proceeds 
afterwards measured. 

The Author feels that no apology is necessary 
for making public practical instructions which 
are the result of many years' individual ex- 
perience, in matters universally admitted to 
require an entire reform^ which are very little 
understood by the poor, and still less compre- 
hended by the rich. It is, however, fair to the 



xii Introduction. 



Author, that the " Gentle Readers *' should be 
informed (whether male or female), that, had 
time and circumstances permitted, this book 
would have been more complete, but, under 
the impression that facts will constitute its 
chief value, the Author decided on publishing 
one volume as quickly as possible, without 
waiting to rearrange the subjects or to improve 
the composition, being very certain that, if 
there is any value to be found in its pages, 
other persons will be awakened to their own 
practical responsibilities and to the knowledge 
of practical possibilities by what the Welsh 
Hermit has begun. 

AuG^ Llanover. 



THE FIRST PRINCIPLES OF 
GOOD COOKERY. 

Once upon a time, not very long ago, there 
was an aged Welshman who lived in a house 
cut out of a rock adjoining the cell and oppo- 
site the Well of St. Cover.* He was always 
called the Hermit (Meudwy) by his Cambrian 
countrymen, and had been remarkable in his 
youth for acquiring a practical knowledge of 
whatever art he deemed it useful to understand. 
He was of ancient lineage, and had been born 
where he resided. He was one day sitting by 
the side of the limpid spring which rose out of 
the ground near the door of his rocky abode, 

• Cover, H€q^, and Gwarwg ; the three primitive saints of 
Gwent 



The First Principles 



when a traveller approached, and asked him if 
he would allow his horse to graze for a short 
time upon the tempting herbage which he saw 
around him, while he himself rested awhile by 
the well of sparkling water and quenched his 
thirst. 

Elidr Gwyn, with the courtesy which dis- 
tinguished his race, bade him welcome, and 
after the steed of the Traveller had been 
tethered at a little distance, entered into con- 
versation with his new friend. 

** You have ridden far, my son," said he, 
" and no doubt you can give me tidings of 
what has been passing in England and Wales 
as well as in the distant quarters of the globe 
for the last fifty years. I am myself ninety- 
three years old at least, but my own impression 
is that I am much olden I have no written 
record of my birth, and I sometimes think 
that I might rival in longevity the Salmon of 
Llyn Llyfon, the Ouzel of Cilgwri, the Toad 
of Mochnant bog, and the Owl of Cwm 
Cawlwyd, so celebrated in our ancient MSS/* 

" Who were those illustrious characters of 



of Good Cookery. 3 



whom you speak?" said the Traveller: "I 
have visited Scotland and Ireland ; I have pene- 
trated into the farthest parts of England ; I have 
crossed the seas, and visited the most celebrated 
parts of the world ; but I do not recollect ever 
to have heard of the personages you have men- 
tioned/* 

** Probably not, noble sir/' said the Hermit, 
with a humorous smile; ** but may I ask whether 
you have ever been in Wales^ and have made 
yourself acquainted with the literature of the 
ancient Britons ?" 

" Never,*' replied his new . friend ; " but 
being now upon Welsh ground, and, if I mis- 
take not, having the pleasure of addressing a 
native of the ancient race of the Cymry, I trust 
you will excuse my freedom in again asking 
who those remarkable champions were of 
whom you spoke, for I suppose that they were 
great warriors, who from some circumstances 
connected with their history, or perhaps some 
personal resemblance to a fish, a bird, or a reptile, 
were designated in the manner you mention/' 

** Time," said the venerable Hermit, " is 

B 2 



f 



T^he First Principles 



too short, — for the sun is already on its down- 
ward course, — to permit of my relating the re- 
markable history which has raised your curiosity. 
I can only say that it is a Welsh MS. entitled 
* The Ancients of the World,* by which it 
appears that the Owl of Cwm Cawlwyd was 
the oldest of all the birds and beasts at that 
period, and it occurred to my mind, in allusion 
to my own age, that I bid fair to rival that bird 
of wisdom, as my health is perfect and my 
faculties unimpaired/* 

** Good father," said the Traveller, ** do 
relate to me this history." 

*^ My son," answered the Recluse, " one of 
the proofs of my consistent nature is the 
unabated vigour of my curiosity. It cannot 
signify nearly so much to you to hear an old 
Welsh tale, as it does to me to know (even at 
this advanced age) what the world has been 
about for the last sixty-four years, during which 
time I have never gone beyond the neighbour- 
hood of this secluded abode, where I have every 
necessary of life, and a very large collection of 
books of the last century. My recreations are 



■ J - " I u I ^Ks^em^^f^B^smssssmftsBmesi 



of Good Cookery. 



chiefly confined to the study of the properties 
of wild plants, and the good people on the 
mountains seek my advice. I have ample 
means for myself, but in return for my medical 
assistance they supply me with many additional 
rural luxuries. Tell me then, I pray you, 
something of the state of the world/* 

The Traveller complied with his request, 
and some of his assertions were exceedingly 
strange and apparently contradictory. He said, 
the improvement was so great in the last sixty- 
four years, that the Hermit would scarcely 
believe it possible for human intellect to have 
achieved the wonderful things that /le himself 
had seen and heard of. He then proceeded to 
tell him of railroads — sixty miles traversed in 
an hour ; of iron ships ; of marvellous guns ; 
of many queer things done with, or rather in, 
balloons; but on the latter subject he was 
rather confused, as although he had gone up 
in one, it had come down on the top of a tree, 
and he was taken out senseless. 

After having recounted a succession of these 
wonders to the attentive Hermit, he paused 



T'he First Principles 



to take breath, and his companion took ad- 
vantage of the opportunity to venture upon 
a simple interrogatory : — 

"All this surpasses my comprehension. 
Though 1 cannot doubt the w^ord of so accom- 
plished a gentleman, still you have hitherto 
confined yourself to the wonders of mechanical 
invention; but as the human intellect is by 
an all-v^ise Providence adapted for every exer- 
cise which is conducive to the welfare and 
benefit of mankind, I must ask you to gratify 
me by mentioning whether the great progress 
and improvement which you said was so 
universal, does not equal in other departments 
the mechanical ingenuity which has wrought 
such marvels, by which it appears that people 
travel so fast, they have not the slightest con- 
trol over their own movements, or those of 
others who are killed wholesale without their 
surviving relations knowing the cause ; and that 
they are also enabled to shoot so far, that 
they may destroy their friends almost as well 
as their enemies, as their patent guns carry to so 
great a distance they cannot see who they knock 



of Good Cookery. 



down. But tell me, my good sir, of the arts 
of life — those arts which mark the difference 
practically between a cultivated intellect and 
paralysed or petrified faculties — between the 
useful and the useless — between defined civiliza- 
tion and uncultured ignorance." 

** The Traveller appeared not to understand 
the purport of this question, and was at a com- 
plete loss to answer it : ** What do you mean," 
said he, ** by the arts of life ? " 

'' My good friend," said the Hermit, " what 
do you mean by savage life ? what are its 
characteristics ? " 

** I can answer that," said the Traveller, 
*' without difficulty. Bodies without clothes, 
and meat and vegetables, either raw or so ill 
cooked that the preparation bestowed on them 
can scarcely be called cookery ; foe truly cooked 
food fit to eat, and raiment shaped and fit to 
wear, are undeniable requirements in civilized 
life." 

** It rejoices my heart," said the Hermit, 
*' to find that we so perfectly agree ; and I am 
now longing to hear of the progress and im- 



8 The First Principles 

provements which have taken place in those 
most oecessary arts of life. Doubtless the 
intellect of the last sixty-four years has caused 
such advances that there is not a matron or 
a damsel in any rank of life from the Land*s 
End to John o' Groat^s House, who cannot cut 
out and make to perfection what our Teutonic 
neighbours used sometimes to call a ^Jirst- 
dress ; ' or a master of a family, from the noble 
to the peasant, who has not his dinner, whether 
it be one dish or whether it be twenty, dressed 
in a manner which combines delicacy of flavour 
with the greatest economy and the utmost 
attention to health, with such a tempting ap- 
pearance as does credit to the instructions or 
execution of the wife, the daughter or the sister 
presiding over his household." 

At these words the Traveller turned pale, for 
he was a man of honour and veracity ; he 
wished much to tell a Jib — for the honour of 
England he wished to tell it — but his virtue 
forbade, and he could only sigh deeply. 

The Hermit gently inquired the cause of his 
emotion, upon which, with some hesitation. 



of Good Cookery. 



the Traveller informed him that he had 
touched upon a point which made him. low- 
spirited, as he had from childhood been always 
much annoyed when he could not verify his 
own assertions by facts, but that he had really 
been inflpenced chiefly by the opinions of the 
newspapers, of which there were now two or 
three in every village, and that he had used the 
words " universal progress y^ and ** incredible im- 
provementy^ in the general sense in which they 
appeared in print, and were consequently re- 
peated by the reading millions ; but that the 
Hermit's last questions had struck home, and 
that he begged to be excused giving a more 
definite answer. This, however, was not per- 
mitted, and after some earnest but well-bred 
discussion, a compact was made that the Tra- 
veller should reply to the Hermit's inquiries 
without the slightest reserve, upon his own 
personal and individual knowledge, on condition 
that the Hermit in his turn should give him the 
benefit of his wisdom and experience, to suggest 
remedies for such existing evils as truth might 
oblige the Traveller to divulge. 



I o T^he First Principles 

The Hermit, perceiving that his companion 
was evidently acutely touched, with the delicacy 
which was one of his characteristics, said that 
he would not exact any expression of his senti- 
ments or opinions — he would simply ask for 
facts. 

" I will begin," said he, " with an inquiry 
easily answered. Everything in your apparel 
denotes civilized life. May I ask what dex- 
terous fingers plied the needle which executed 
the numerous plaits in what used in the last 
century to be called a shirt, but in my youth 
there was far more needlework required than I 
perceive in the specimen before me ? '* 

The Traveller again appearefl embarrassed 
and perplexed. "I know not," said he, 
" whether it is made by man or woman, or 
by a machine! All I know is, that there is 
not a single family of my acquaintance, and 
my connexions are extensive, where there is a 
single female who can- either cut out or make 
a shirt ! I buy them out of shops in London, 
and every now and then there are subscriptions 
made for half-starved women, who are never 



of Good Cookery. 1 1 

seen, but are said to be employed in the forma- 
tion of shirts. But there is a general complaint 
that ready-made shirts never fit, and that the 
male part of the population of all ranks suffer 
severely from the entire ignorance and utter 
inability of their wives and daughters to under- 
take either the execution or the direction of 
that portion of our dress." 

** Marvellous change ! " ejaculated the Her- 
mit. " I could understand the possibility of a 
new-fashioned shirt, or another form of gar- 
ment, but I never shall be able to comprehend 
the abandonment of that art denominated plain 
needlework, the perfection of which is best de- 
monstrated in all its branches in that one article 
of apparel. Good heavens ! Is it possible that 
the heads of families (I mean, of course, the 
lords of creation) should be so utterly neglected 
by those who in my time considered it their 
pride, as well as their duty, to be responsible 
for every process necessary for the production 
of a shirt ? " 

The Traveller begged that this painful sub- 
ject might not be continued, but promised to 



1 2 ^he First Principles 



place in the Hermit's hands a letter which had 
appeared some years ago in the papers of the 
day, and which he assured him was an exact 
statement of a general case as felt a few years 
since ; but that it was now far worse, as now 
the very inquiry for a female who could make 
a shirt, would render the inquirer an object of 
ridicule, for supposing that the art was still 
known and practised.* 

The Hermit, wishing to cheer his friend, 
changed the subject, and next asked for infor- 
mation with regard to the progress and im- 
provement o^ cookery. 

" I suppose,'* said he, ** that since my time 
the advances in the culinary art have been com- 
mensurate with that of machinery, and that no 
man, in these days of progress and improvement, 
ever has a bad dinner, or tastes an ill-cooked 
dish ; that the viands of the present century are 
prepared under the instructions of highly culti- 
vated female intellects, in a manner far superior 
as to taste, salubrity, and appearance, to those 



For this letter, see " Traveller's Note Book." 



of Good Cookery. 1 3 

that I remember in (what you probably would 
call) the * dark ages of ignorance.* " 

Scarcely had these words been uttered, when 
the ashy paleness of the Traveller alarmed 
the inmate of the cell. ** Good father," said 
he, " spare me ! oh, spare me ! The very re- 
collection of what I have suffered from the 
universal, indeed cherished ignoraijce of the 
culinary art in the kingdom of Great Britain 
and Ireland, occasions a faintness which I 
cannot overcome." 

" Possibly," said the Hermit, " it may be 
that you require sustenance at this very moment. 
You have ridden far, and no doubt fasted long ; 
allow me to offer you some refreshment, which, 
if not luxurious, will at all events be innoxious." 

The Traveller looked in dismay at the rough 
exterior of the stonv cell, and his silent reflec- 
tions were as follows : — ** I am sinking from 
inanition, but with my delicate digestion, what 
consequences may I not expect to result from 
partaking of such fare as will probably be offered 
me by this old man ? But I have no alternative, 
I must eat or starve. Too much fatigued to 



14 T^he First Principles 

ride further without food, I must accept his 
offer, and bear as I can the disgust and subse- 
quent suffering attendant on such a meal." 

The reader need not be detained with a de- 
scription of the various courtesies which passed 
between the aged host and his wandering guest, 

who was at length persuaded, with timid step, 

« 

to follow him into the interior of his abode, 
where it is unnecessary to follow them at 
present. 

At the expiration of two hours they reap- 
peared ; but what a change had taken place 
in the countenance of the stranger, who, it may 
be observed, was remarkably handsome, and, 
with the independence of a sensible man, was 
not disfigured by the terrier or monkey-like 
appendages, which have been the fashion since 
the hardships of the Crimean war necessarily 
obliged both officers and men to appear both 
unkempt and unshorn. His eyes were lighted 
with, a vivacious intelligence ; his clear com- 
plexion was suffused with a roseate tint ; his 
light curly hair, as is always the case with 
renewed strength, had assumed a crisper curl, 



J" 111- ^^..^.....^PIP 



of Good Cookery. 1 5 

while a beaming yet reflective smile indicated 
the pleasing tenor of his thoughts. 

The Hermit paused when they again reached 
the well, and said in a mild yet solemn tone — 
** Remember our agreement/* 

" I shall not forget it/* said his new friend. 
** I should be the most ungrateful of mortals if 
I ever forgot the admirable repast for which I 
am indebted to you ; and I consider that what 
you require of me is very inadequate to what I 
have received and am still to obtain from you. 
But lest there should be any misunderstanding 
between us, allow me to repeat what I believe 
are the terms of our convention, and correct me 
if I am in error." 

The Hermit bowed with the air of a man 
who had never been in the habit of turning his 
back on leaving a room. 

The Traveller resumed — ** I have promised to 
travel for fourteen days ; then to return here and 
to give you an exact report of my bad dinners, 
whether at inns or private houses, on condition 
that you will give me the same dinner each day, 
cooked in the same perfection of which I have 



1 6 7he First Principles 

had a specimen already, and that you will allow 
me to see each dish executed under your own 
inspection, always being permitted to dine with 
you afterwards ; and that you will also inform 
me of the causes which have produced the 
faults of which I may have to complain, in my 
descriptions of the dinners of which I may 
have partaken, or of any other troubles or in- 
conveniences I may have experienced/' 

The Hermit testified his approval, declared 
the recapitulation to be perfectly correct, as- 
sisted the Traveller to regain his steed, and with 
mutual compliments they parted in the hope of 
another early meeting. At the end of fourteen 
days the Hermit watched for the return of the 
Traveller ; but although he spent a longer time 
than usual on his favourite seat by the well 
surrounded by ferns and wild flowers, no Tra- 
veller returned, and he sighed when he retired 
to rest, from the conviction that the compact 
made with the Traveller would never be ful- 
filled — that he had forgotten the conditions, and 
cared no longer for the results. 

Day after day, and week after week passed 



of Good Cookery. 1 7 



away, until a month having elapsed the Hermit 
had ceased even to expect him ; when one 
sultry afternoon he beheld a figure approaching 
on the horse which he recognised as that of his 
friend ; but the rider was so unlike the Tra- 
veller of his former recollection, that he could 
scarcely persuade himself of his identity until 
he was close to him, when he dismounted with 
difficulty, and the Hermit was grieved to per- 
ceive that one of his formerly well-shaped l^gs 
had evidently been broken, and on his glove 
being withdrawn, that he had lost one finger 
and a part of his thumb. The bridge of his 
nose was much depressed^ and a scar over the 
eyebrow proved that he had narrowly escaped 
loss of sight. 

The Hermit, who was a man of most sen- 
sitive feeling, as well as of refined good breed- 
ing, was at a loss to know how he could testify 
his sympathy without demonstrating to the full 
extent the frightful change he perceived in his 
companion's outward appearance, when the 
latter, anticipating the difficulty, first broke 
silence. 



1 8 The First Principles 



" My venerable friend/' said he, *' you no 
doubt believed that I had broken faith, and was 
unworthy of the kind reception you had be- 
stowed on me ; but I think that the wreck of 
my former self which you now behold will be 
sufficient to convince you that I have narrowly 
escaped with my life, and that it is only won- 
derful that I have been able to pursue my 
journey hitherward/' 

The Hermit, with kind expressions of sym- 
pathy, begged that he would unfold to him the 
sad circumstances which had led to his injuries. 
** Have you," said he, ** had an encounter with 
highwaymen or footpads in traversing some 
bleak moor, or have you been too adventurous 
in the hunting field, although it is not usual for 
accidents of this description to entail the loss of 
fingers and thumbs ? " 

The Traveller assured him that to neither of 
those causes were his misfortunes to be attri- 
buted ; but that he had been thus maimed from 
the railway train in which he was travelling 
having been run into by another train, which 
was going still faster. 



of Good Cookery. 1 9 

"Why did they not pull up/* said the 
Hermit, " when they saw your equipage before 
them ? " 

" Because," replied the Traveller, " those 
wonderful engines which the progress of the 
human intellect has invented since your retire- 
ment from the world move with such velocity 
it is impossible to see anything in the way in 
time to pull up, and the whole dependence of 
the travellers for security from such accidents is 
on those persons who are placed on the road to 
make signals — which, if rightly interpreted ^ 
enable the driver to stop in time — intelligence 
being thus conveyed that another train is just 
before him ; but it frequently happens that the 
signal is not interpreted aright — or, rather that 
a wrong signal is made/* 

" How unjustifiable ! *' exclaimed the Her- 
mit. " How thoroughly inexcusable ! " 

" My good friend/' said the Traveller, ** you 
are too severe. Dilapidated as I am, irreparable 
as the injuries are which I have received, I can 
not only forgive, but///y the unfortunate man 
who, by a wrong signal, has been the imme- 

c 2 



20 The First Principles 



diate cause of the death of six persons, and the 
mutilation of thirty more, many of whom are 
far worse off than myself. The wretched man 
of whom I speak was one of many officials 
who were obliged to work eighteen and 
twenty hours at a stretch, by which means his 
power of vision and his intellects became so 
completely confused that he could not distin- 
guish right from wrong." 

The Hermit appeared to be astounded, and 
desired to know *' whether he had been in 
error in believing that Great Britain was 
governed by a virtuous and benevolent Sove- 
reign, and a liberal and enlightened Govern- 
ment ; and yet, if such was the case, how 
could such cruelties be perpetrated ? " 

The Traveller had some difficulty in making 
his host understand that the Sovereign and the 
Government had no power to protect the lives 
of the subjects on these occasions — that the 
railroads were speculations unconnected with 
the Government, and that either no laws had 
yet been enacted with sufficient punishments 
and penalties to compel proper regulations, or 



»1 



of Good Cookery. 2 1 

else that the Houses of Parliament contained so 
many members who were themselves share- 
holders in railways, or who had constituents 
upon whose votes they depended for their re- 
turn, who were also deeply involved in such 
speculations, that it was quite hopeless to en- 
deavour to get a majority in the House of 
Commons to inflict punishments sufficient to 
ensure a reform for the preservation of life. 
" Indeed/* added the Traveller, " I must confess 
that the hope of pecuniary gain induced me to 
take shares in the very railway on which I 
have now nearly ended my life ; and although 
I know that it must become bankrupt, yet I do 
not like to hasten the crisis by any public com- 
plaint, from the hope that if others don*t know 
as much as I do^ I may be enabled to sell my 
shares for as much as I gave for them." 

The Hermit was unfeignedly shocked at this 
undisguised avowal of such selfish and mer- 
cenary motives ; but he confined himself to the 
remark that railroad speculation appeared to him 
to be worse than the " South Sea BubbUy' the 
details of which he was better acquainted with, 



22 ^he First Principles 

and that he could not perceive any indication of 
exalted or improved intellect, although there 
might be much increased ingenuity, in inventing 
machinery which outran all control, and that 
he considered the controlling power ought to 
be fully equal to the inventive before any great 
claim could be proved to the real progress of 
intellectual superiority. 

He then hospitably inquired what the Tra- 
veller could eat, and was informed that his 
health had been so shaken by his late disaster, 
and subsequent diet in a large railway hotel 
kept by a company where no one was master, 
that he could swallow nothing but chicken, and 
even that he thought of with disgust, from the 
recollection of the greasy water which had 
been called chicken broth, and of the nauseous 
fluid which surrounded the fowl he had last 
eaten, and which was denominated ^* parsley and 
butter^ 

The Hermit expressed his satisfaction in 
being provided with a pullet ready for boiling, 
and to the astonishment of the Traveller he in- 
troduced him to his kitchen, where there was 



of Good Cookery. 2 3 



every convenience for cooking, with four 
Welsh women of advanced age, the eldest 
being past eighty, and the youngest past fifty, 
but full of activity, and in costumes that would 
have made the fortune of an artist. But he 
informed his friend that as he had promised to 
teach him to cook the dinner, and as he always 
liked to superintend, the Traveller must be 
present while that process was carried on, 
unless he repented his compact, in which case 
he (the Hermit) would remain, and the 
Traveller bear himself company in another 
apartment cut out of the rock during the period 
of the performance. 

The Traveller congratulated himself upon 
the happy opportunity now oflfered for seeing 
an exemplification of what the Hermit con- 
sidered one of the most practical proofs of civi- 
lized life, and great was his astonishment when 
he saw his host take a dainty chicken * ready 
trussed, and weigh it — it was very fat, and the 
weight was three pounds and a half; it was then 



• See Receipt in Appendix No. I. 



24 ^he First Principles 

placed in a tin vessel, and one-fourth of a pint 
of spring water to every pound, and a sprink- 
ling of salt. The vessel was then placed in an 
iron vessel, an inch larger in circumference,* 
which is well known in Wales, and called 
Ffwrn fachy in which boiling water was 
poured till it rose within an inch of the top. 
The inner and outer vessels, having their lids 
put on firmly, were placed over the slow heat 
of the Hermit's stove, where they remained 
undisturbed for nearly two hours ; which were 
agreeably passed in visiting the Hermit's garden, 
where herbs and vegetables abounded^ — his 
goats, his tows, and even his pigs were not 
forgotten. 

In the course of these rambles, and others 
which followed subsequently, many remarks 
were made, and information given by the re- 
cluse of the cell, which the Traveller noted 
down, and which will appear in a condensed 
form from the ** Traveller's note-book" in the 
course of this volume ; but every hour tended 

* See Plate No. I. 





Ftwr IV Fa-oK . 



_i 



of Good Cookery. 25 



to strengthen the conviction of the wanderer, 
that he had at last found a man who practised 
what he understood, and who was not led 
away by any theory to give credence to that 
which was not demonstrated by the results. 
When they returned, the Hermit having ascer- 
tained by pricking his chicken with a fork that 
it was thoroughly done, proceeded to prepare 
melted butter — for according to his compact he 
was to give the Traveller a dinner of the same 
materials as those of which he had so much 
complained. The Hermit placed two ounces 
of fresh butter in a tin saucepan, which 
fitted into another holding boiling water ; he 
added a teaspoonful of flour, which he mixed 
with the butter as it melted, adding also by 
degrees two tablespoonfuls of milk; when 
well incorporated, he added six tablespoonfuls 
of water, stirring it round the same way till it 
attained the thickness of moderate — not too 
thick — cream. He had previously requested 
his companion to assist the widows by washing 
some parsley, and pick it leaf from leaf; this 
he put into boiling water for a few minutes, 



1 



26 The First Principles 

then minced it fine and bruised it to a pulp in a 
small mortar ; after which it was put into his 
wooden sauce-boat, the work of his own 
hands, which had been previously heated with 
hot water, and pouring the melted butter upon 
the parsley, stirred the whole together rapidly. 
The frugal board was soon laid ; but before 
they commenced their repast, the venerable 
host desired his friend to remember that the 
dinner he was about to eat was strictly in ac- 
cordance with their compact — which was that 
the Hermit was to display we/I dressed that 
which the Traveller had particularly complained 
of as having had ill dressed ; but he said that 
a boiled chicken, with parsley and butter, was 
the very last choice he himself would have 
made ; as he thought the latter the very worst 
sauce that he knew ; but he believed, as now 
prepared, it would be neither unpleasant in 
taste, or unwholesome. The result proved his 
supposition to be correct ; the chicken was 
tender, juicy, and retained its full natural 
flavour ; while the sauce was of its kind irre- 
proachable : but as the Hermit observed, with 



of Good Cookery. 27 



such materials the most that could be done 
was to make ** an unobjectionable medium for 
parsley/' ** You did not name any pudding," 
said he, *' and therefore I have given you 
none ; otherwise, my garden, and my kind 
neighbours, would have enabled me to add 
another dish." The Traveller, with many 
apologies, begged to propose another clause in 
their agreement, for his own advantage. It 
was, that the Hermit should let them have the 
remains of the fowl the next day, that he 
might understand his method of making a re- 
past the second time of cooking. 

** With the greatest pleasure I comply 
with your request," said the frugal Anchorite ; 
" for I not only think it sinful to waste a 
grain of good food, but I am certain that 
I shall be able to give you a much more 
relishing dish than any of those you have yet 
named to me. There is, however, one slight 
difficulty : we have both, it appears, good 
appetites ; and, although it was a noble fowl, 
there is not quite enough dinner for one person 
left on its bones ! but, as my larder is not yet 



A I 



28 The First Principles 



exhausted, I will add another dish, on one con- 
dition, which is, that you tell me how you 
wowX^fricash that chicken, if you were obliged 
to cook it yourself, or to give directions for so 
doing." 

" I would," said the Traveller, " mix cream 
and butter together over the fire, and then put 
in the chicken." 

" It would be remarkably nasty y' said the 
Hermit, " and, moreover, there would be no 
thickening, and no flavour." 

" Oh, I forgot the^d?«r," s^id the Traveller, 
** which I suppose is always stirred in to 
thicken it." 

" I think, my friend," said the Hermit, 
** you have forgotten a good many other things, 
or rather you are totally ignorant of cookery, 
however many lectures on other sciences you 
may have attended." 

The Traveller appeared a little offended at 
this remark, and said, he *' never pretended to 
be a cook ; " that he had simply stated what he 
supposed must be done, without knowing any- 
thing about it. 



of Good Cookery. 29 



The Hermit smiled at his choler — " You 
are," said he, " the best demonstration of the 
justice of my opinions — extremes do indeed meet. 
You would fain persuade me that the world is 
wonderfully more intelligent, and better in- 
formed, in everything denoting superior civili- 
zation, to the world I knew in the last century; 
but here you have been a sufferer for years from 
weakness of digestion, according to your own 
account, from the poisonous preparations of 
food that you have been doomed to swallow ; 
yet it has never once occurred to you to make 
out what was the cause of cooked food being 
very bad or very good ; and that very necessary 
knowledge, it appears, has not been imparted to 
you by any of the learned lecturers, who you 
say teach everybody everything without a book." 

The reader need not be detained with the 
dialogue that followed. Suffice it to say, that the 
Traveller was slightly acrimonious, from find- 
ing himself totally unable to maintain his own 
original assertions against the cool practical 
logic of the Hermit ; but a truce was at last 
concluded, and the Traveller wisely determined. 



30 T^he First Principks 

that if he couldn't teach he would at all events 
learn ; and a plan was arranged for daily culi- 
nary instruction, as well as for walks in the 
neighbouring valleys and mountains ; and as the 
Traveller could not but admit to himself that 
the Hermit knew a great many useful things of 
which he was ignorant, he determined to note 
down at night those facts which had never 
before struck him, or of which he had not 
previously heard, especially relating to objects 
to which he had been accustomed from his 
childhood ; and he was more particularly glad 
that he had thus determined, when he found 
that his host had not only a large garden, but a 
small farm and a flock of sheep, besides bees, 
goats, pigs, and two Welsh ponies. With 
pardonable self-conceit, he also determined that 
everything which he observed in the Hermit's 
management, or which was asserted by him to 
be good or bad, he would try to ^/Vprove, if it 
was possible; and he had at that time little 
doubt of its being so in some instances, in 
which case he intended to write down his own 
counter-experiences on parallel columns, and he 




Diqester . 



of Good Cookery. 3 1 



thought, with no small delight, of the triumph 
he would have on the conclusion of his visit, 
when he should read his MSS, to the Recluse, 
if he could produce some refutations of the 
correctness of the Hermit's assertions from re- 
sults obtained by the Traveller's own superior 
knowledge, through his enlightened education 
in this much more enlightened age. 

As many remarks made during the rambles 
of the two friends will appear in a concise 
form (taken from the Traveller's note-book), 
this narrative will pass on to the relation of the 
Hermit's dinners — what they were, and how 
they were cooked. 

The afternoon of the chicken dinner, all the 
remaining meat was carefully taken off the bones 
of the Hermit's fowl; the bones were then 
weighed, and the weight being one pound and 
a half, they were afterwards broken small, with 
an iron hammer, and one pint and a half of 
spring water being added to it, the whole was 
put into a digester on the Hermit's stove,* to 
stew slowly for two hours. The liquor was 

* For Digester^ see Plate No. II. 



32 7 he First Principles 



then poured off, the bones taken out and re^ 
broken, another pint and a quarter of spring 
water added to them, the vessel replaced on the 
stove for two hours more; the liquor again 
poured off into another basin, and the bones 
then given to the Hermit's dog. By this time 
the Traveller had not the slightest doubt that 
his good host was mad, and he chuckled to 
himself at the idea of the instructions by which 
he was to benefit in the fricasee of the follow- 
ing day. 

His amusement was, however, not unmixed 
with apprehension about the second dish, as he 
feared the Hermit had been so intent upon 
making broth out of bones which contained 
nothing, that he would forget there was not 
chicken enough left for two. 

Preparations for the next day were as follows : 
the Hermit produced, first, a basin in which 
there was a pint of thin jelly, at the top of 
which was a quantity of clear oil, and under- 
neath that a very thin layer of very delicate 
fat. The Hermit first took off the oil and put 
it into a bottle — he said it was useful for many 



of Goo a Cookery. 33 

purposes where oil was required — he next took 
off the small quantity of more solid fat, which 
he laid upon a plate by his side ; he then pro- 
duced a second basin, in which was a pint of 
still firmer jelly, which he added to the con- 
tents of the first-mentioned basin ; he then 
produced a large cup, in which was more than 
one-fourth of a pint of as solid but more opaque 
jelly, nearly white ; this he also added to the 
other jellies, and then poured the whole into 
the inner part of a double saucepan, the outer 
vessel being nearly filled with boiling water.* 

The Traveller could no longer contain his 
curiosity, and inquired whence all those jellies 
came, and what they were made of? 

" The first," said the Hermit, " was the 
jelly produced by simply boiling the chicken in 
a double vessel, which in itself is the finest 
preparation of chicken broth for invalids. The 



* The bones above mentioned then weighed one pound, and 
had they been again broken and subjected to the same process 
with one pint of water, instead of being given to the Hermit's 
dog, they would have produced a quarter of a pint more jelly ; 
making in aU, from the bones alone^ more than one pint of jelly. 

D 



34 ^he First Principles 

second was the jelly from the first stewing of 
the bones, which contain a large quantity of 
gelatine. The third was from the second boil- 
ing of those same bones. I have mixed all 
together, although the quantity will make more 
sauce than we shall require for our fricasee, be- 
cause I shall require it to-morrow for another 
purpose." The Hermit added a little salt to 
the dissolved jelly, and desired his friend to 
taste it, who admitted that it was the perfec- 
tion of chicken broth, but how it could ever 
become anything else he had no conception. 
The Hermit then chopped very finely celery, 
leek-roots, a small quantity of turnip, still less of 
carrot, and one small potato, all of which he 
put into a single saucepan with the surface 
chicken fat which he had taken from the 
chicken jellies. He stirred these over a slow 
heat for about ten minutes, so that the chopped 
vegetables absorbed the whole of the chicken 
fat without burning ; he then gradually added 
as much flour as made the whole into a stiff 
paste, which he stirred about five minutes 
longer, till the fat, the vegetables, and the flour 



wrwmF 



^ 



' ' : VI kU'. / *a^^^ . <3 6 



Pl.ATK 3 





EJ. Fecit 



DouJblf Saux^/iarv 



of Good Cookery. 3 5 



were thoroughly incorporated ; he then turned 
the whole mass into the melted and hot 
chicken stock, and, well stirring it, covered it 
over, and left it to stew slowly in a double 
saucepan,* (a vessel surrounded by boiling 
water,) for three-quarters of an hour, at the 
end of which time he requested his friend 
to taste and pronounce his opinion. 

The Traveller was so agreeably surprised by 
the excellence of the taste, that he forgot for 
the moment what it was intended for, and ex- 
claimed, " What excellent chicken soup ! " 

" If that is your opinion," said his host, ^' the 
first stage of my fricasee is well accomplished ; 
but jfrom soup it must become sauce." Upon 
which he poured the whole through a wire 
sieve into a basin, by which process the thicker 
portions of the vegetables were left behind. 
He then emptied the contents of the basin back 
into the saucepan, and added two spoonfuls of 
cream ; again it was stirred, and again it was 
tasted, and the Traveller's opinion requested. 



* See Plate III. 
D 2 



36 The First Principles 

He was evidently a man of acute taste^ and the 
Hermit (who was always aiming at perfection) 
took pleasure in his criticisms. 

" This condiment," said the Traveller, *' now 
disappoints me : the first taste was so pure, and 
yet so relishing, that I expected when further 
advanced nothing more could be desired ; but 
strange to say, now that it has assumed the 
usual hue of fricasee sauce, now that it has 
received the addition of what I should consider 
its best ingredient, cream, it has much less 
flavour than before, and, although extremely 
good, is by former comparison insipid." 

*' You enchant me, my friend, by your re- 
marks," said the good man ; " you have the real 
organ of taste of palate. Your observations are 
as correct as they are acute. When you first 
tasted my sauce it was redolent of the aroma of 
the fresh vegetables, judiciously selected, and so 
finely chopped that their juices were thoroughly 
extracted. The cream has, as it were, diluted 
and diminished the flavour, though it has 
materially enriched the composition ; but such 
a diminution of the poignancy of the flavours 






of Good Cookery. 3 7 

you admired was necessary to our present pur- 
pose ; in so delicate a meat as chicken, the fla- 
vour of roots and herbs must not preponderate." 

The Hermit then took the meat of the cold 
chicken, which was cut or pulled lengthways, 
in pieces pointed at each end, and put into the 
sauce, with the addition of a little more salt. 
He then added boiling water to the outer vessel 
(which had by long boiling wasted consider- 
ably), and he allowed the whole to stew — 
frequently stirring, ' for half an hour. The 
Traveller was again called upon to taste. ** It 
is perfection,"' said he ; *' never do I remember 
a fricasee which combined the whole flavour of 
the chicken with the most perfect consistency ; 
and was thus rich without being nauseating, 
thus pure without being insipid, thus relishing 
yet thus delicate." 

The Hermit bowed. ** It is twelve o'clock, 
my friend, and as we rose at cock-crow, and 
breakfasted with the larks, we will, if you 
have no objection, dine at my usual hour ; 
observe, the sun's rays have just struck the 
meridian line upon my window." 



38 T^he First Principles 

The Traveller expressed his concurrence and 
satisfaction, but, at the same time, he was too 
well bred to give utterance to the misgivings 
which he felt, lest his hospitable provider had 
forgotten that the only imperfection in his frica- 
see was, that it was not enough for the dinner 
of two hungry men ! The simple board was soon 
spread by the Welsh widows, but before they 
sat down the Hermit gave an order in " moun^ 
tain Greek ; "* when they disappeared, and going 
into a side chamber, also cut in the rock, 
brought from thence a small square of cold 
meat, delicately garnished with mountain thyme. 
The fricasee was soon finished, the good man 
observing that it had been no part of his com- 
pact to ornament the dish ; that he dealt only 
with the palate, and with the digestion; that 
his cookery was as agreeable to the former as it 
was innoxious, indeed beneficial, to the latter ; 
but, were it necessary, he was not incapable of 
adding such garnish as would be as pleasing to 
the eye as to the taste. 

* Welsh — the ancient language of Britain, 



of Good Cookery. 39 

The Traveller declared he had no wish for 
any addition to such a dish ; the only complaint 
he had to make was, that he wished to have 
eaten a great deal more. 

** I anticipated as much," said the Hermit, 
'* and though my practical art will not make 
the meat of half a chicken suffice for two 
persons, I think you will not find this cold 
meat unpalatable, and that you may possibly 
have tasted worse fare." 

The Traveller* cut off a slice of the meat 
alluded to, which he found was beef, which 
the knife passed through like cheese, and he 
was astonished at its tenderness and flavour* He 
asked the Hermit to explain how it had been 
prepared, but he excused himself, saying that 
he intended on another occasion to give him a 
similar piece of beef hoty which he should see 
prepared himself. 

The next day was passed in similar rambles 
to its predecessor, and incidents occurred which 
served to illustrate the Hermit*s opinions and 
the results of his practice, which will appear 
later in the notes of the Traveller. 




40 The First Principles 

The third day's dinner consisted of a leg of 
Welsh mutton, so small, that an English eye 
would have believed it to be the leg of a sucking 
lamb ; notwithstanding it was six years old, and 
consequently in the full perfection oj flavour to 
which that unrivalled animal attains. Over the 

Hermit's fire-place was a simple 
crank with notches, from which 
he suspended a piece of woollen 
yarn, doubled several times and 
twisted. To the end of this string he attached 
a hook, to which he suspended the leg of mut- 
ton, and in the dripping-pan he placed a cake 
of such ivory fat, that the Traveller could 
scarcely believe that the delicate-looking sub- 
stance was really that usually nauseous ma- 
terial. 

The Traveller remarked that the mutton was 
very far from the fire. 

** Only twenty-three inches^^ said his friend. 
" One of the chief reasons of the rarity of good 
roasting is the senseless habit of scorching the 
meat on the outside before it is warmed within. 
I shall not put the mutton nearer to the fire 



of Good Cookery^ 4 1 

^ I ■ _ . - -- 

until it is well warmed ; and then I shall only 
put it two inches nearer y and leave it at twenty- 
one inches till it begins to -smoke, and you will 
then witness the last process." 

The Hermit then made the Traveller assist 
the widows in basting the mutton, before which 
there was a wooden screen lined with tin, with 
two shelves on the side next the fire. But, con- 
trary to the usual practice, he showed the Tra- 
veller that every time he basted the meat he was 
to empty all the melted fat which poured down 
into the hollow of the dripping-pan, into an 
earthen pan, which stood at the bottom of the 
screen on a level with the dripping-pan, and 
from which he was instructed to replenish the 
ladle when there was no longer any supply in 
the well of the dripping-pan to baste the meat. 
The Traveller could not contain his surprise at 
the intervention of this pan, and desired to have 
an explanation, upon which the Hermit, who 
seemed very much to enjoy his astonishment, said 
that he would give him two guesses ; and that 
if he failed to discover the reason, he would tell 
him, but that, at the same time, he must expect 



42 The First Principles 

that the Hermit would be justified, in such a 
case, in having less respect than ever for the 
efFect of the scientific lectures upon chemistry 
which his friend had so highly valued. 

The Traveller's two guesses were unfortunate. 
The first time he supposed that, the earthen 
pan being rather further from the fire than 
the dripping-pan, the Hermit made use of it 
to avoid burning the eyes. His second idea 
was, that, for some reason unknown to him> 
the earthen pan imparted a flavour to the fat ; 
and he was much annoyed when the explana- 
tion was given, to find that he had exactly hit 
upon the wrong end of the reason. 

The Hermit, who really wished to instruct 
him, very kindly determined to make him find 
out the right reason by a series of questions. 
** Did you ever," said he, " remark that gravy 
had a very strong, unpleasant taste, which often 
was found in a still greater degree in the outer 
part of roast meat ? " 

The Traveller declared his clear recollection 
of those coincidences, but he did not see what 
they had to do with the questions at issue. 



of Good Cookery 43 



** Did you ever/' said the Hermit, " smell a 
very unpleasant odour pervading a house, which 
is often explained by the supposition that * fat 
had fallen into the fire ' in the kitchen ? But/' 
said he, "it is not so often that fat has fallen 
into thefirey as that^r^ has fallen into the fat ! 
from a hot cinder dropping into the well of the 
dripping-pan, or, what is more fi-equent, and 
has exactly the same effect, the dripping-pan 
becoming almost red hot, from the long ex- 
posure too near the fire. A large portion of 
the fat is thus kept in a perpetual state of frying 
for the space of some hours ; one portion of it 
becomes the consistency of treacle, and adheres 
to the dripping-pan, while the more liquid part 
imbibes the objectionable flavour which is 
created by this continual frizzling, and the 
gravy of the meat (the most delicate part of 
the dish) is a nauseous liquid, redolent with 
grease, which the action of the fire has ren- 
dered unwholesome and rancid, however pure it 
may have been when first put down to melt. 
But by emptying it into the earthen pan, this 
efiect is prevented. It is sufficiently near the 



44 ^he First Principles 



fire to retain its liquid state, without any bad 
effect to the taste ; and the gravy which, as the 
joint proceeds in roasting, is likewise received 
into the dripping-pan with the fat, is also pre- 
served from injury in the same manner." 

The Traveller, who did not lack intelligence, 
although (like many theoretical wise men) he 
was little accustomed to plain practice, saw in a 
moment the sense and reason of the Hermit's 
system of roasting, but he did not like to say 
much about it, because he felt that he would 
not rise in the Hermit's estimation if he con- 
fessed how especially he had suffered, in more 
organs than one, from the very cause which the 
Hermit had now so clearly demonstrated, and 
which, by so simple a process, could be pre- 
vented, without ever attempting to understand 
the cause of his annoyance, or making use of 
his own intellect to provide a remedy. By this 
time the leg of mutton, which had been basted 
every ten minutes, began to smoke. The 
Hermit then put the yarn a few notches nearer 
the fire, and fetching a small watering-pot, put 
in about a pint and a half of boiling water. 



of Good Cookery. 45 



with a litde salt, and dexterously sprinkled the 
whole joint, as it turned round and round, 
through the rose of the watering-pot. 

*' This little vessel,'* said the good man, 
** serves two purposes ; it waters my flowers 
and helps to cook my mutton ! which, with 
the hot saline bath I am now giving it, will 
rain down a double supply of most excellent 
gravy, which be it your care, my good friend, 
to take up as fast as it flows down, and to turn 
it over the meat three or four times. Then 
return the whole into the earthen pan, and it 
will be the business of one of my widows, 
when the joint has again browned, to apply the 
last finishings of fresh basting and frothing with 
flour, which I do not think you are as yet suffi- 
ciently accomplished to practise with dexterity, 
and which has very little to do with the essen- 
tial roasting of the joint, upon which its good 
cooking depends." 

The Traveller smiled to himself, as he 
thought that, however well the leg of mutton 
might be roasted, of which indeed he had no 
doubt, yet that the gravy would be extremely 



46 The First Principles 

greasy, and though not burnt or fried, that it 
would certainly not be pure or clear. 

The mutton was taken down, and placed by 
the Welsh widow upon its hot dish, and pre- 
sented a most tempting appearance; it was 
well done, but not over done. It was browned 
and frothed, but not burnt; it was juicy, yet 
cooked to the bone. The widow then removed 
the earthen pan, with the fat and gravy, from 
the fire. After pouring round the mutton some 
clear pure brown gravy, which, the Traveller 
had not before observed, had been warmed in 
a little double saucepan by the side of the 
Hermit's stove, and which he had seen put on 
about half an hour before, but had not inquired 
into the contents — 

" That is not quite fair," said he, " I know 
not how that gravy was made." 

" I assure you, my friend," said the Hermit, 
** I do not wish to conceal anything ; but I 
cannot perform impossibilities. No one can 
have a gravy properly prepared from the same 
leg of mutton which is just roasted, because 
there is not time for the fat and gravy — which 



of Good Cookery. 47 



are necessarily mixed together — to cool, which 
process must take place before every particle of 
the fat can be removed from the gravy. The 
gravy I am now using for our dinner was the 
produce of my last leg of roast mutton, with 
the fat taken off, which, being clarified, was, 
with some addition, the delicate cake that you 
saw used for basting the present joint; and 
the next time we have a leg of mutton, you 
shall have the very gravy that you have assisted 
in preserving, and which I have i)ow put away 
to cool/* 

The Traveller comprehended this sensible 
explanation, and participated in the best dressed 
dish of roast mutton he had ever tasted, to 
which the Hermit added an apple tart. He 
informed him his Welsh widows always made 
two tarts at a time, as waste was an abomina- 
tion to him, and they could not divide the yolk 
and white of an egg with any advantage. 

** Each tart," said he, " only requires half a 
yolk and half a white, consequently I have two 
tarts at a time, as the tarts will keep till I can 
eat them, but not the divided ^%%.^^ 



-•—1 



48 The First Principles 



The Traveller really thought his venerable 
host had lost his memory ; but he had ocular 
demonstration on another day, w^hen he saw 
the widows make tarts, that he had not exag- 
gerated in the least degree, and that the excel- 
lent tarts he tasted were really composed of 
nothing more than one ounce of fresh butter 
rubbed in flour, one yolk of an egg, mixed in 
skim milk, to wet the flour, the white of the 
egg being used for glazing the top of the crust, 
with a litde white sugar; which ingredients 
made paste enough for two tarts, each large 
enough for five or six persons. 

The Traveller did not forget to claim the 
Hermit*s promise of explaining to him the 
reason that certain dishes, especially in Eng- 
land, were generally so extremely bad, and at 
inns and schools almost uneatable; and that 
he would begin with soups. 

The Hermit desired he would catechise him 
regularly, and that, if he failed to account in a 
rational manner for any bad cookery from 
which he had suffered, he would pay a forfeit 
of an extra dinner for every such lapse; 



1." '^ I , J .M.' ^ ^^fmwcwr, IP I ,iiiiia,raaBgiM^eeBgT 



of Good Cookery. 49 

* * 

HI — — ■ ■ ■ ^ 

although he had never had the advantage of 
attending scientific lectures, his knowledge 
was practical, and his experience gained at 
home. 

The Traveller commenced his questions in 
the first place by desiring to know why soups 
and broths were so often greasy ? 

" The cause/' said the Hermit, ** is one, to 
my understanding, the most easily accounted 
for ; and yet, I suppose, from the general com- 
plaint of an evil so very easy to remedy, that 
it is not self-evident to everybody, or they 
would hardly voluntarily permit the con- 
tinuance of an evil which I would undertake 
that any attentive and obedient Welsh child of 
thirteen years, old would never incur after a 
week's instruction in my kitchen." 

The Traveller eagerly requested that he 
would impart this most valuable secret, doubly 
valuable if so easy of execution. 

The Hermit, who had a vein of old- 
fashioned pleasantry about him, gravely assured 
his friend, that to impress his lessons more 
completely on his memory, it was necessary, 

£ 



50 The First Principles 

that before he imparted the desired information 
the Traveller should endeavour to guess wrhat 
the means were, which were so effectual for 
preventing a general and acknowledged evil. 
It must, however, be admitted that the good 
man did not say this with a view to the Tra- 
veller's improvement, so much as to his own 
amusement ; for nothing diverted him more 
than to prove the want of reflection^ and neglect 
of reasoning power as applied to practical pur- 
poses, of his very scientific friend. He there- 
fore desired to know, what the Traveller 
supposed was the reason, and what he would 
suggest as a remedy. 

" The reason j^ said the Traveller, " is per- 
fectly clear. There is no meat without a 
mixture of greasy matter. Broths and soups 
are made by the extraction of the gravy or the 
juices of meats, which is effected by their 
being immersed in water which, when heated 
to a certain point (unnecessary to particularize), 
and subjected to the long continued action of 
the fire, extracts what is called by the cooks 
^ Stock,' on the surface of which floats that 



mmBsaoBm^mmmmm 



of Goo J Cookery. 5 1 

nauseous material which, when hot, resembles 
oil, but which is peculiarly offensive to delicate 
digestions. I trust I have lucidly explained 
what you desire to know/* 

The Hermit bowed. " You have expressed 
yourself with a fluency truly admirable. But 
the remedy you would recommend has not been 
mentioned/* 

** There is but one^* said the Traveller with 
a sigh, " that I have ever heard of, and that is 
of such difiicult attainment that it bears a very 
high price, and consequently there is no hope 
of its being generally available. It is the pos- 
session of a very clever cook, who has an 
unfailing memory, a quick eye, a light and 
dexterous hand; and who, by the exercise 
of all these talents, combined with unceasing 
activity, can remove every particle of liquid fat, 
with the utensil invented for that purpose, 
by repeatedly skimming everything, under the 
process of boiling or stewing, at the precise 
moment when that operation can be performed 
without injury to the dish in progress. Hence 
the immense difference between one cook and 

£ 2 



52 T^he First Principles 

another ; hence the enormous wages paid by the 
rich for persons with this rare combination of 
qualifications; and hence the reason why no 
person of moderate means^ still less those in 
very confined circumstances^ can ever have a 
well-cooked dinner." 

*'And do you really think so?'* said the 
Hermit, in an accent of well-feigned simplicity ; 
" then Aow can you believe that a poor An- 
chorite, like myself, can impart to you any 
plan by which the poorest person need never 
hafue an ilUcooked dinner^ (if they have food to 
cook), and still less need ever have a difficulty in 
obtaining the purest soup and broth, without a 
particle of fat to disturb his digestion, or to 
ofiend his eye ? " 

** I must plainly answer," said the Traveller, 
** that I had great doubts of your being able to 
suggest any radical cure for this widely ex- 
tended evil ; but yet, as a drowning man catches 
at straws, I naturally caught at hope^ being 
myself a delicately organized invalid." 

The Hermit then continued his Catechism 
a little further. ** You have said a great deal," 



^vjwm'sw^^^^a^^Kt^^K^K^^^mi^i^^mvrs^^ps^^^^^^'^^;^^'^^^^^^!' 



of Good Cookery. 5 3 



said he, " about hot fat ; what becomes of the 
unskimmed fat when it is coldf ** 

The Traveller was so deceived by the inno- 
cent tone in which this question was asked^ 
that he thought, for a moment, that his host 
really wanted information ; and he replied, with 
some degree of self-sufficiency, that it always 
remained at the top, where it congealed. 

" And did it never occur to you," said the 
Hermit, " that if you wanted soup on a Wed- 
nesday, you had only to make it on Tuesday ? — 
by which means you would be able, the morn- 
ing you require it, to remove every particle of 
the objectionable ingredient with a sharp knife, 
when it can be taken off as a solid cake, and 
that your soup or broth, whether in jelly or 
liquid, would then be as pure, and as clear of all 
oily particles, as if it had been skimmed, and 
r^-skimmed again and again, when in a boiling 
state, by the first cook in Europe." 

The Traveller was, according to his custom, 
when suddenly enlightened by plain practice, 
very silent ; for he saw in a moment, that he 
had not demonstrated any extraordinary intel- 



54 ^f^^ ^ir^t Principles 

ligence in not having discovered so simple a 
remedy for himself. He therefore only said, 
*' I suppose that this is not generally known." 

** Not generally reflected upon, if observed/* 
said the Hermit, " or you most assuredly would 
never have to complain of impure soup ; but as 
a practical lesson is worth more than a hundred 
lectures, I will to-morrow show you how soup 
ought to he madeT 

*' You have, then," said the Traveller, " no 
doubt a stock-pot ; for although I see you have 
no great idea of my culinary knowledge, / am 
awarey that there can be no good soup without a 
stock'potr 

** I don t possess one," said the Hermit ; 
** and if I did, I would not use it J' 

The rest of the day was passed in the usual 
rambles ; but before they went out the Hermit 
showed his friend the bare bone of the leg of 
mutton they had had for dinner, the meat of 
which had been all taken oflf.* *^ I am going 
to weigh this/' said he ; " observe, it weighs 
three quarters of a pound/* 

* See Appendix No. II. 



of Good Cookery. 5 5 



One of the Welsh widows then took the 
hammer before mentioned, and broke the bone 
as small as she could^ and put it into a very 
strong iron vessel, in the lid of which was a hole 
into which fitted very loosely an iron stopper. 

" This," said the Hermit, " is called a 
* Digester ;^ * it may almost be considered a 
work of the last century, in which I believe its 
inventor (Pappin) was born : at all events, I can 
remember that my good aunt used it fifty years 
ago, and perhaps it may be well known to you, 
unless something much more effective has been 
discovered since that period." 

The Traveller was not anxious to afford any 
information on this point, for, indeed, he had 
never heard of any " digester " made of iron, 
and did not know the use of it. 

The Hermit added a pint and a quarter of 
water, and, after shutting it up, put it on his 
stove, where he allowed it to remain until he 
retired to rest, being a period of two or three 
hours, slow stewing, when he poured off the 
liquor^ and, taking out the bones, broke them 



♦ See Plate No. IL 



56 The First Principles 

again still smaller, put them back in the 
digester, added a pint of water, and let them 
stew two hours more in a very slow heat. 

The next day he produced a small piece of 
brisket of beef,* which weighed six pounds ; to 
every pound of meat the Welsh widows 
poured a quarter of a pint of water, in all a 
pint and a half: they then chopped very small, 
leeks, celery, carrots, and turnips, and having 
a measure which, when full, held exactly a 
pound of chopped vegetables, the Hermit 
put in a pound and a quarter. The pro- 
portions of vegetables were, four parts leeks to 
three parts of celery, three parts turnips, and 
one part carrots. He carefully spread the vege- 
tables over the meat, then sprinkled a little salt 
over the vegetables, and then placed about a 
pound and a half of very pure fat on the top of 
the vegetables. 

The tin vessel in which the meat was placed 
was then put into the iron vessel belonging to 
it, which contained boiling water, as before 
described ; and both lids being put on, it was 

* See Appendix No. III. 



"^^■«^B*'^^a«^^i«««iV^V^HBHHBHP«l|iHiWPViBa^BVmQiPSn 



of Good Cookery. ^y 



left to stew for twelve hours, the water on 
the outside being occasionally replenished as it 
boiled away. 

The Hermit then proceeded to prepare the 
dinner of the day, which was hashed mutton 
and white soup,* as the Traveller had especially 
complained of the difficulty of having mutton 
cooked a second time to be eatable. The 
Hermit assured. him there were two ways of 
hashing mutton, which were both excellent, 
and he would begin with the most difficult. 

The Welsh widows then produced from an 
inner repository some firm brown jelly from 
the mutton bone, which he put into a sauce- 
pan (or double), surrounded, as before, by hot 
water. The widows then chopped, in careful 
proportions, onion, celery, and turnip ; the 
whole quantity together was about a quarter 
of a pound. These they fi-ied in a small well- 
tinned iron saucepan (the Hermit did not 
approve of copper), with very fine fat, which 
he said had been taken off the stock of the 
stewed beef which the Traveller had eaten 

♦ See Appendix Nos. IV. and V. 



58 The First Principles 

cold, and of which he had so much approved. 
They stirred the chopped vegetables and the 
fat rapidly round^ and round for ten minutes by 
the clock ; after which they shook in, with a 
dredger, as much flour as was sufficient to form 
the whole mass into a moderately stiff paste. 
They stirred in the flour for five minutes more, 
and then transferred the whole into the stock, 
which by this time, from a jelly, had become 
hot and liquid. They again stirred the whole 
briskly together, and left it to simmer for a 
quarter of an hour. 

He then asked the Traveller for his opinion. 
He pronounced it to be like good brown thick- 
ened soup ; after which he tasted it, and asked 
his friend to do the same. • They both agreed 
that a little more celery and sweet herbs would 
render it a most excellent made gravy. 

When finally flavoured, the widows put it 
through a wire sieve, and the Hermit observed 
that he had a great objection to the use of 
tammies or horse-hair sieves, when it was 
possible to avoid it. 
- The Welsh widows then returned the gravy 



of Good Cookery 4 59 

into the inside saucepan. The Hermit tasted it 
again^ calling upon his friend to observe that it 
had lost a portion of the flavour which it before 
possessed. 

** This," said the Hermit, ** is always the 
case with everything that is passed through a 
sieve. The closer the sieve, the more the 
flavour is abstracted; and for that reason, a 
tammy is the most destructive to flavour of all 
the species of sieves, as it is, in fact, a very fine 
flannel, the threads of which are so minute 
that they not only hold back every particle of 
the vegetables, but it is necessary to work them 
so hard with a spoon, that all their flavour is 
absorbed and arrested by the tammy-cloth ; and 
although they have used a coarse wire sieve for 
pur present dish, you will perceive that it is 
somewhat diminished in flavour by the process 
of straining, and therefore it is necessary that 
I should r^flavour." 

For this purpose the Hermit selected a small 
sprig of orange thyme, a little savory and basil, 
twisting them together with a bit of thread, 
and then stirred the fragrant nosegay round 



6o T^he First Principles 

two or three times, till it had imparted suf- 
ficient flavour to the sauce. 

The Welsh widow (ist hand) then produced 
the cold mutton, and the Hermit requested the 
Traveller to cut it up for the hash, which he 
immediately began to do in straight long slices ; 
but on being told that that was not right, he 
cut it in thick dice, for which he was equally 
censured. The Hermit then took it in hand 
himself, and showed him that, for a hash, cold 
meat ought to be pointed at each end, the ends 
being as fine as possible, but the centre of each 
piece much thicker than the extremities, and 
all the skin and fat carefully removed. 

The meat being thus prepared, was placed 
in the sauce, and after being well stirred was 
covered and left to simmer in the usual way, 
surrounded by hot water, for about half-an- 
hour. After which it was declared to be ready, 
and the Traveller again confessed that he had 
never eaten a better dish ; ** for,'* said he, ** it 
has the real flavour of the mutton, without 
being over done. It has not the slightest 
greasiness, and yet there is an agreeable com- 



of Good Cookery. 6 1 

bination of herb and vegetable, which render 
it> instead of a nauseous and unwholesome 
preparation of cold meat warmed, a really 
good and wholesome made dish." 

" That," said the Hermit, ** is what every- 
thing should bcy that is dressed a second time. 
It should be an excellent variety y instead of an 
unwholesome and disagreeable necessity; but I 
wish you to observe, that the principle of 
making good sauces is exactly the same as that 
of making good soups, and that I equally 
repudiate the use of butter in both the one and 
the other. The fat that you saw used to-day 
for frying the vegetables was produced from 
the stewed beef, of which you so highly 
approved, and the preparation of which will be 
my next lesson. The fat which I recommend 
for soups and sauces is always better for that 
purpose fresh and «»clarified, just as it comes 
off the stock when cold; but my widowed 
handmaids always keep a stock of clarified 
fat, which is perfectly pure and innoxious, 
but which of course cannot impart the same 
flavour of vegetables as the fresh fat which 



62 T^he First Principles 



is produced from meat stewed for many hours, 
with a large proportion of the latter ingredient 
unclarified/' 

The Traveller having honestly admitted his 
admiration of the hashed mutton^ could not 
resist an attempt to puzzle the Hermit '^ My 
venerable friend/' said he, •* there was one 
remark that you made^ which I do not think 
is always borne out by facts, although I admit 
that it was correct in reference to our culinary 
experience of to-day. You said that straining 
through fine sieves always diminished flavour. 
If this is the case, how do you account for the 
flavour of sweet jellies? — since even my moderate 
acquaintance with the culinary art has taught 
me that jellies are strained through a flannel 
bag" 

**Your question enables me to confirm my 
assertion," said the Hermit. ** First of all, you 
must remember that a jelly, when hot, is a 
thin, clear liquid, the flavour of which is im- 
parted by other clear liquids, and not, like soup, 
by substances^ reduced to a pulp, which are 
retained by the sieve or flannel bag ; but, if you 



of Good Cookery. 6 3 

doubt the correctness of my assertion, that 
everything that is strained through similar 
mediums loses a portion of its flavour in the 
process, you have only to taste a jelly before 
it is poured into the bag, and afterwards, and 
you will find that there is a loss of flavour 
which is abstracted by the bag ; although, from 
the causes I have mentioned, it is so slight as 
not to be of much importance." 

The following day's dinner was the long- 
promised stewed beef, which, it will be remem- 
bered, weighed six pounds ; it had stewed 
slowly for some hours ; the quantity of water 
put in was a pint and a half; the quantity of 
liquid stock taken out was nearly three pints ! 

The meat was put on in the inner sauce- 
pan ;• it was gently warmed with a portion of 
its own stock, and on the beef the widows put 
all the remaining fat, which had been taken 
off the stock when cold, and produced by the 
original stewing. 

In another saucepan, the widows prepared a 
sauce with a portion of the same jelly stock of 
the beef flavouring it in a similar manner to 



64 ^he First Principles 

the sauce he had made for the hashed mutton, 
with the exception of putting a larger propor- 
tion of carrots in the preparation of the chopped 
vegetables. He also had carrots and turnips 
cut into small balls^ and put them to stew in 
broth, in a separate double saucepan. 

The beef, when thoroughly warmed through 
(which process required about two hours), was 
served with the sauce made as described, into 
which the balls of carrots and turnips, which 
were tender and fully done, were removed be- 
fore it was poured over the beef, which, having 
been taken out of the stock in which it was 
warmed, was not in the least greasy, although it 
had a flavour and richness derived from its own 
unadulterated fat, which had slowly filtered 
through it in the process of warming. 

*'Some persons," said the Hermit,." would 
place a thick slice of fat bacon on the top of 
this beef, during the process of warming ; but 
I am a great enemy to marring the flavour of 
one good thing by the addition of another, 
which is not required. I have often known 
a good dish spoilt by the addition of a quantity 



«i« 



of Good Cookery . 6 5 

of rusty or very salt ham or bacon, which was 
intended to improve its flavour. The only thing 
I ever use, except what you have seen (viz. its 
own fat), is a slice of moderately salted boiled 
pork, laid on the top of the beef when warm- 
mg. 

The Traveller declared he was so well 
satisfied with his dish, that he did not desire 
the slightest alteration or addition. 

The next day, two basins of soup made their 
appearance at dinner. The soup was perfectly* 
clear, and most delicately flavoured. 

The Traveller reproached his friend with not 
having allowed him to see the preparation of 
this excellent soup; but he assured him that 
the only preparation was what he had wit- 
nessed when the beef was originally put down 
to stew, and this soup was the remains of that 
cookery. He said that all meat put down in a 
double vessel, with a proper proportion of water 
and vegetables, ought to produce gravy soup, 
perfectly well flavoured ; which could be called 
vermicelli, macaroni, or rice soup, merely by 
the addition of those ingredients. 



66 The First Principles 

4 

The Traveller inquired whether there was 
any particular process observed in making those 
additions. 

The Hermit requested him to state how Ae 
would proceed, if he added macaroni or pearl* 
barley, &c. to his soup. 

** Of course/* replied his friend, with an air 
of conscious experience, '^ I should first of all 
boil the pearl-barley or rice in water. I should 
then, when fit to eat, put it into the soup." 

" And do you suppose," said the Hermit, 
** that your soup will then be of the same 
strength as before ? " 

** And why should it not ? " returned the 
other. 

" That question will be easily answered," 
said the Hermit, " by reminding you of the 
quantity of water absorbed by rice or pearl- 
barley, &c. &c., before they are fit to eat; and 
therefore, if you wish to preserve the original 
strength of the soup, you should merely wash 
them in water, and then put them into a suf- 
ficient quantity of the broth, or stock, to 
swell and to absorb ; and when soft, put them 



of Good Cookery. 67 

« 

into the soup itself, which is destined for the 
table." 

**And why not put them into the soup 
itself at the commencement?** said the Tra- 
veller. 

** For the simple reason/* answered the 
Hermit, ** that it does not improve the flavour 
of soup to keep it on the fire, after it is made, 
for two or three hours ; and therefore it is 
better to prepare the rice or pearl-barley in 
another vessel, with no more stock than is 
required for the purpose of cooking it/* 

Shortly after this conversation, the hashed 

mutton was eaten, and the Traveller reminded 

# 

the Hermit, that as he had now taught him 
the most difficult way of hashing mutton, he 
hoped the next day he might learn the most 
easy method.* 

The Hermit said he must excuse him for 
making the following day's dinner a repetition, 
which was generally bad management ;' but that 
the process was so simple, he could not fail to 
understand it by description. It was merely to 
cut the mutton in the same manner as he had 

• See Appendix No. VI. 



68 T:he First Principles 

shown him, to lightly flour it on each side, 
turning it over and over with two forks ; then 
to put it in a double saucepan, with a sufficient 
quantity of the jelly from the bones of mutton, 
flavoured with a little onion and herbs, — or, if 
more convenient, the clear gravy from a roast 
leg of mutton, without any fat, but which had 
been previously flavoured with onion, herbs, 
and salt. The meat should remain in this 
sauce or gravy in a gentle heat, being often 
well stirred, for about three-quarters of an hour, 
when it would be ready for the table. 

It was afterwards agreed that the next day's 

dinner should be a mutton pie,* which, as it 

« 

required previous preparation, was commenced 
that evening. 

The Hermit's Welsh widows took a neck of 
Welsh mutton, and, cutting it into thin chops, 
weighed it, and put in a small double saucepan, 
with rather less than a quarter of a pint of 
water to* the pound weight ; they then chopped 
celery and onion, a little orange thyme, basil, 
and savory, and left it to stew, with the water 
slowly simmering round it, till it was perfectly 

* See Appendix No. VII. 






of Good Cookery. 69 

tender, but not over-done. They then strained 
ofF the stock from the meat, and put it away to 
cool ; and when the fat had formed a hard cake 
on the top they took it off; and to the surprise 
of the Traveller, he saw underneath a firm jelly. 

" I never knew," said the Traveller, ** that 
mutton made jelly." 

"Perhaps you thought," said the Hermit, 
** that mutton pies ought to be made by baking 
raw meat. And, before I proceed further, I 
must ask you to detail to me your experience 
with regard to mutton pies." 

" That is soon told," said the Traveller. 
^*They are, without exception, one of the 
worst of the innumerable bad dishes which 
have contributed to ruin my digestion : — the 
meat is generally as hard as a stone, the gravy 
is like melted fat; and either the pastry is 
burned or the meat is not half done, but if the 
meat is done the paste is scorched to a chip; 
and in either case it is greasy and unwholesome. 
The chops are frequently put in with all the 
bone and fat, having been previously rolled in 
pepper and salt until they would excoriate the 



70 T^he First Principles 

throat of a salamander ; and the paste is greasy, 
and redolent of burnt butter/* 

The Hermit smiled. 

^* You will not have to complain/' said he, 
" of these faults in my pie/' 

He then proceeded to give directions, in 
mountain Greek, to the widows, to cut the 
meat off the bone, taking off the skin and all 
the superfluous fat They then put the mutton 
jelly, together with the prepared mouthfuls, 
into a basin, the pieces being about the size 
of half-a-crown, but of irregular shapes, the 
meat of each cutlet making about two pieces. 
They placed the basin over a saucepan of 
boiling water, covering it with a plate, upon 
which he put the lid of the saucepan, and in 
a very short time the jelly melted amongst the 
meat. When it was hot the Hermit tasted 
it, added a little salt, and had it put away all 
together, in the basin, in a cold place till the 
next day, explaining to the Traveller that, by 
leaving the meat and the jelly to cool together, 
the meat would imbibe the flavour of the stock, 
instead of becoming hard and dry, as would 



of Good Cookery. y i 

otherwise be the case if left exposed in the air 
all night. 

The next day the Welsh widows, by the 
Hermit's order, took flour, and having placed it 
upon the board, put water on the fire with some 
of the cake of fat which had been taken from 
the surface of the mutton stock, and when boil- 
ing hot, added it to the flour by degrees, stirring 
in with a spoon, and thus made the paste, having 
previously filled the pie-dish with the mutton 
and mutton jelly prepared the day before. The 
widows took care in forming the little orna- 
ment which decorated the top of the pie to 
make a small stem, which fitted into a hole on 
the top of the pie-crust. They then filled a 
baking tin with cold water, which the Hermit 
explained was to prevent the meat from being 
overdone before the paste was baked. In less 
than three-quarters of an hour the paste was 
baked to perfection, and the widows placed the 
pie upon the table, when the Hermit, gently 
screwing out the ornament at the top, poured 
in with a small jug as much additional liquefied 
mutton jelly as the pie would hold, which jelly 



72 T'he First Principles 

had been kept back and warmed in a double 
saucepan for the purpose. The ornament was 
replaced, and the Hermit explained that the 
heat of the oven produced an absorption of the 
liquefied stock, although the heat was dimi- 
nished in some degree by the water in the 
baking tin, and consequently there was always 
room (after a pie was baked) for an addition of 
gravy reserved for the purpose. 

The Traveller said, that of all the good 
dinners he had yet had in the Hermit's cell he 
thought this was the best; and he knew not 
which to praise most — the paste, the meat, or 
the gravy. 

The Hermit then begged to know what 
other dishes the Traveller had the most un- 
pleasant recollection of, under the ordinary 
mode of cookery ; upon which his friend re- 
plied, that he had so often felt as if he was 
poisoned at dinner, it would be almost impos- 
sible, amidst the crowd of unpleasant reminis- 
cences, to say which was the worst ; but he 
didn't think anything could exceed a bad beef- 
steak, which, with mutton chops, appeared to 



of Good Vookery. 7 3 

form the whole bill of fare of an English inn ; 
and that when they again had soup he would 
be very thankful for some instruction about Pea^ 
soupy* which was generally Pea gruel, or a 
greasy, unpalatable mixture. 

The Hermit said, that with regard to the 
soup, he should have pleasure in showing him 
two ways of making it, both of which were 
equally good in their way, but the one was 
best suited for the economist, and the other to 
those whose means permitted extra luxury. 

The peas for the soup he directed the widows 
immediately to place in a pan, which he 
ordered to be sunk in the well. 

The Traveller, who had begun to imbibe 
some of the Hermit's habits of reflection and 
observation, thought to himself that the peas 
would float ; but he perceived that the Hermit's 
widows took the precaution of pouring water 
upon them before they sunk the pan in the 
well; which being done carefully, only 2, few 
peas floated on the surface, which he took care 
to inform the Hermit was owing to their light, 
worthless quality; and his host was too well 

♦ See Appendix Nos. VIII. and IX. 



74 ^he First Principles 

bred to tell him that he had before supposed 
that all the world was acquainted with the fact 
that light grain swam. 

After the peas were put to soak, the re- 
mainder of the day was spent in the usual 
manner; and the next morning the peas were 
put on in a double vessel, with a litde water 
and a certain quantity of top fat (from the 
stock of stewed beef). They stewed for some 
hours, and were then pressed through a colander, 
and then afterwards through a wire sieve ; after 
which they had a proportion of mutton broth 
added to them, and a plate of onions and celery 
chopped fine, they were again put on the fire 
in a double vessel, and well stirred. 

After having stewed some time, and the soup 
being perfectly smooth, the Hermit desired the 
Traveller's opinion of the taste, which was that 
it required more flavour. Upon this, powdered 
mint was added out of a bottle, and, after 
another tasting, the Hermit added some extra 
pieces of celery and onion, and a bunch of 
marjory, which were stirred round and round, 
until the necessary additional flavour was im- 



mB^mmmmmmmmmmmmmtm'^mm^mmmmmKmm^mmmmmmmmmim 



of Good Cookery. 7 5 



parted, and the soup was pronounced to be 
excellent. 

The Hermit remarked that this was winter 
pea- soup, and then made the following ex- 
planation of the reason for some of the pro-» 
ceedings which he thought the Traveller might 
not have understood. He said that he always 
delayed putting in the mint until the soup was 
made savoury and palatable without it, as the 
mint having a strong flavour, it was not so 
easy afterwards to apportion other ingredients. 
He also explained that his mint and other herbs 
were always gathered when in bud, as they 
should not be in flower or in seed when brought 
in for culinary preservation. 

They were never hung up to dry, but, having 
been cut when in perfection, were put by the 
Welsh widows between two dishes in a moder- 
ately warm oven, or hot closet, where they dried 
quickly, preserving all their aroma as well as 
their green colour ; they then pounded them in 
a mortar, and bottled them for use, carefully cork- 
ing them ; in which way they were much more 
convenient and eflfective for flavouring soups. 



76 77;^ First Principles 

The Hermit said it was unnecessary to pre- 
pare a second portion of peas for the variety of 
pea-soup that he had promised; and> as the 
first preparation was the same» that the latter 
part could be shown on the following day with 
the soup left on . the present occasion. The 
beef-steak, he promised, would be good ; 
although he did not profess to give him a 
broiled beef-steak, as he was not able to procure 
beef which had hung the precise time to be 
tender, and yet fresh ; and that as this was a 
very common case, he thought it would be 
more useful to show him a way of preparing a 
beef-steak which would always insure a good 
dish, whether the beef was tender or not. He 
said that the goodness of a plain broiled beef- 
steak depended entirely upon the goodness of 
the meat, and the manual dexterity of the 
broiler, and the state of the fire — three things 
which he was quite sure his friend, in common 
with the greater part of the world, would 
never learn, and consequently could not teach ; 
but he believed that the process his widows 
were about to show might be learnt by any- 



. C '.1. f* . .l.V 



P1.ATK 4r 






EJ.FBcit 



JjCtr^e/ Double. 



of Good Cookery* yj 

body, and consequently taught without diffi- 
culty. 

The beef-steak * was placed in a saucepan with 
a little salt, and continually turned and stirred 
round until it was brown on both sides; it 
was then put into a " Double/^'f with a small 
quantity of hot water, in which had been pre- 
viously scalded chopped onions, turnips, celery, 
and sweet herbs. It was left to stew about 
an hour, by which time it had become very 
tender, although it retained the appearance and 
a good deal of the taste of broiled meat. The 
whole was then put into a small pan (narrow 
at the bottom) to cool. The fat was carefully 
taken off when congealed, and the gravy put 
back into a double saucepan with the meat, 
where, as soon as it was reheated, it was ready 
to eat, and pronounced by the Traveller to be 
wholesome and agreeable. 

Nor must it be forgotten that the Hermit's 
Welsh widows added balls cut out of raw 
potatoes, which, after being delicately fried by 

* See Appendix No. X. 

t "A Double" is used to indicate the cooking utensil 
which has an inner vessel. — See Plate IV. 



78 The First Principles 

them in the fat that had been taken off the 
beef-steak gravy after it had cooled^ with a 
sufficient addition of a similar nature, were put 
into the gravy with the beef-steak« 

The Traveller pronounced the beef-steak to 
be an admirable substitute for the generally evil 
dish of that name, but declared his preference 
for the plain good old-fashioned broiled beef- 
steak, of which he had a distinct recollection, 
though a rare experience. 

The Hermit, with the candour which was 
so conspicuous a trait in his character, repeated 
still more strongly what he had before said, 
viz. that the old genuine beef-steak owed its 
celebrity to a combination he did not possess, 
and therefore would not pretend to teach, viz., 
fresh beef which had been hung to the hour 
before decomposition commences, and, secondly, 
upon a degree of practice in the art of broiling 
which his widows did not possess and could not 
acquire in his establishment^ and which was 
necessary to avoid three evils — the steak being 
underdone within and burned outside, or the 
fat and gravy falling into the fire or on the hot 



^^^ 



of Good Cookery. 79 

stove during the process, which would produce 
a most dreadful smell, the fumes of which 
would give the meat a similar taste (upon the 
same principle as has formerly been explained 
in reference to roasting the leg of mutton) ; but 
the Hermit added that his object was to teach 
well what he practically understood, and that 
he did not believe there ever would be any 
certainty in the production of a good beef-steak 
unless by cooks who had been practised for 
months together, all day long^ in some place 
where little else was ever eaten, for that beef- 
steaks well broiled required as much manual 
practice as rifle-shooting. 

In the course of their walk after dinner, the 
Traveller remarked that there were many 
things relating to cookery without which it 
could not be good, but which were pre- 
liminaries to the art ; for instance, the manage- 
ment of game and poultry, the salting of meat, 
&c. &c. In reference to the latter subject, he 
amused the Hermit with an account of having 
gone into a larder in a very large establishment, 
where there was a professed cook, and a house- 



8o Ihe First Principles 

keeper, and innumerable kitchen-maids : but it 
unfortunately happened that at the moment of 
his entrance the cook was suffering from the 
smart of a pin, which had run into her hand in 
feeling the plumpness of the breast of the 
chicken, which, having been torn in plucking, 
the skin had been fastened together with a 
pin ; * and that, on his expressing his horror 
at so dangerous a proceeding, the cook in- 
formed him it was not at all uncommon, when 
fowls were plucked at home, as the feathers 
being pulled the wrong way, the rents thereby 
occasioned were thus partially concealed; and 
on his representing that death to the eater 
might be the consequence, he was coolly told 
that it was " very true ; " but she " supposed 
the pins were generally taken out before the 
fowl was sent to the table." 

The Hermit could not resist on this occasion 
an ironical remark. 

" I suppose," said he, ** that this is a proof 
of the progress and improvement of the pre- 
sent age. I never heard of chickens being used 

* A fact. 



of Good Cookery^ 8 1 



as pincushions in the last century, for by your 
account this is a wilful practice, a risk of 
murder voluntarily incurred not under the eyes 
of the mistress, as it appears from your account 
that mistresses in the nineteenth century have 
neither eyes or xmderstanding for the practical 
and most necessary arts of life, but under the 
eyes of that important functionary called the 
* Professed Cooky — a title which, I believe, has 
come into use since I left the world. In my 
time the cook was often called * Cook-maid^ 
meaning the handmaiden who cooked^ and you 
will very much oblige me by explaining what 
it means — because, in my humble opinion, 
persons calling themselves cooks, and being 
hired as cooks, thereby profess to be cooks. 
What is the difference, therefore, between * a 
cook * and ' a professed cook ? ^ '^ 

The Traveller was determined to show that 
he was well able to answer this question ; and 
without any hesitation he said that a professed 
cook was a cook who understood everything 
appertaining to the culinary department; but 
that a cook who did not lay claim to the 

G 



82 The First Principles 



word " professedy^ only understood part of her 
business. 

** Then/' said the Hermit, ** the professed 
cooks, of course, are accomplished in salting 
beef, tongues, pork, making bacon, &c, &c." 

" By no means," said the Traveller, " Very 
few, if any of them, know how to salt a 
tongue. They are generally entirely ignorant 
of salting beef, and expect all those things to 
be done for them ; but the plain cooks occa- 
sionally can undertake those matters/* 

*' I think/* said the Hermit, ** I must take 
lessons anew in the English language, as from 
your explanation I am to conclude the professor 
is the cook who has the most limited know- 
ledge of some of the most important branches 
appertaining to the art which she professes en- 
tirely to understand, while the «e?;i-professor is 
far less ignorant.** 

The Traveller was obliged to acknowledge 
that there was a good deal of truth in this re- 
mark, but still he maintained that a professed 
cook knew a great many things which he 
could not explain, but among which economy 



of Good Cookery. 83 

and good management, he believed^ were not 
to be included. 

The conversation then reverted to the pre- 
servation of poultry and game ; and on their 
return to the cell, the Hermit took him into his 
larder in the rock, in which were iron hooks, 
from whence depended two fine fowls plucked 
without a scar, and without pins in their 
hearts ! a hare, and two young rabbits. 

The Traveller remarked that the birds were 
all hung head downwards, and that the last 
time he had noticed poultry and game in a 
larder, they had been hung by the head, the 
hook being forced through the upper and lower 
mandible of the bill. 

The Hermit said that such a practice could 
not be defended by any sort of reason — that by 
wounding the head and throat the bird would 
sooner decay, the air get in, and flies would be 
attracted — that all birds ought to be hung up 
by the legs, and have a string tied tightly round 
the throat, as soon as they were brought in, by 
which means the weight of the interior pressed 
upon the neck, which being tightly tied ex- 

G 2 



84 ^he First Principles 

eluded the air ; and nothing more was needed 
than a small bit of charcoal to preserve the 
birds till they had hung long enough to be 
tender, and that poultry ought never to be 
drawn till they were cooked. 

" But what do you do in hot weather/' 
said the Traveller, *' if you have more than you 
require to eat at once of poultry or game that 
will not keep ? '* 

**I always roast them off while they are 
good." 

" Half roast them, I suppose you mean," 
said the Traveller, with a little air of con- 
scious knowledge. ** I have heard cooks talk 
of being obliged to half roast all the meat in hot 
weather." 

" A very bad plan," said the Hermit, " or 
rather an impracticable attempt. No one can 
exactly tell when a bird or a joint is half 
roasted. It may be a quarter roasted, or three 
parts roasted, but is always believed to be half 
done ; and then (when cold) it is put down again 
to the fire when required for the table, to receive 
the other half supposed to be due : but by this 



of Good Cookery. 85 

process the hardened outside will not imbibe 
moisture while bastings and becomes still more 
hard^ and by the time it reaches the table, it is 
a flavourless tough morsel, like greasy leather on 
the outside, and without any moisture within. 
And the same with all other things treated in 
this way ; whereas by roasting completely^ but not 
over doing, and when wanted placing the bird 
or joint thus treated in a double vessel, with a 
little pure suet over it, and a small quantity of 
pure broth^ sufficient to make a steam under it, 
and letting the water boil slowly round in the 
outside vessel, and then serving it with another 
pure gravy from roast meat (if possible of the 
same sort), it will be difficult to know that it 
was not roasted the day before ; and I think," 
he added, " it would be difficult even for you, 
whose organ of taste I perceive is very acute, 
to pronounce whether it had been fresh roasted 
from the fire or not. At all events, it is the very 
best method of treating meat or poultry which 
require to be dressed a day or two beforehand. 
But I have another way of preserving game, 
&c. for a longer time, which I will give you in 



86 T:he First Principles 

writing;* and for these and other purposes the 
gravy from roasting should be preserved in 
separate basins, to have a supply when required 
of kind to kind, instead of an abominable con- 
coction of everything mixed together, the 
colour of treacle, commonly called gravy.** 

The Traveller inquired what the contents 
were of various pans of salt meat, and expressed 
his surprise at the quantity of provision in the 
cell of an anchorite. 

The Hermit said, he must remember he was 
not a monk, and that it was needless to assure 
him that it could not be intended for his own 
use ; as, although he might be called a Her- 
mit, inasmuch as he had no companions to live 
with him, that he had a comfortable fortune 
paid by the rents of his industrious Welsh 
tenants; and he had also a rich, aged, and 
benevolent neighbour, who, having ample 
means at his disposal, requested him to expend 
a certain sum every week in various sorts of 
food, which he was to dispose of according to 

* See Appendix No. XI. 



J ■ ^■— J^^^^^^^w: ^^PitP^^ipiiPI^^WgM 



of Good Cookery. 87 



his discretion, for the benefit of others, on 
condition that it was all prepared and cooked 
either by his own hands, or under his own 
personal superintendence; as his wealthy 
neighbour was aware that by this means it 
would produce much more food, and that the 
Hermit would thus never be unprovided with 
proper diet for the sick, who so often sought 
his aid, and, also, that all the assistants occa- 
sionally required by the widows would learn 
good cooking. 

The Traveller said he could not understand 
how the Hermit could have time to attend to 
both species of cooking, as he had always 
understood that cookery for the sick was a 
separate branch altogether, which was scarcely 
ever professed, much less understood, excepting 
by nurses ; and he had often heard it remarked 
that it was very little use for doctors to give 
lists of permissible articles of diet, which were 
generally called " slops '* — z, horrible name, the 
sound of which was enough alone to make 
people ill, while at the same time there was not 
one of these medical authorities that could tell. 



^ 



88 TAe First Principles 

or did tell, how such ** slops ** ought to be pre- 
pared, or to define the difference between bad 
and good, wrong and right, although they 
generally agreed that when the patient was 

# 

quite unable to take any more physic, his life 
would depend upon his being able to take 
properly prepared food. The Traveller could 
not contain his exultation, as the idea struck 
him that the Hermit had never heard of the 
homoeopathic system of medicine. And, as he 
had greatly benefited by it, and had taken 
some trouble to understand the principle on 
which so many cures were effected under that 
mode of treatment, and as he had visited the 
hospitals in London, and those on the Continent^ 
where homoeopathic treatment was pursued, he 
dilated upon it, and gave the Hermit a good 
deal of information on the subject, and he 
rather anticipated the pleasure of an argument, 
in which he thought he should come off vic- 
torious. But as there was no battle, so there 
could be no victory, for the Hermit became 
unfeignedly interested in the history of homoe- 
opathy, and only regretted it had not been dis- 



7, ■ " 



'*^w^*^v^««H^i^^PW**-'«aM«WPBV^«»««C*a«a*^^q*9^ 



of Good Cookery. 89 

covered sooner, for the sake of others ; but for 
himself y he said, he had always had wonderfully 
natural good health, the preservation of which 
he attributed very much to abstinence* froih all 
fermented liquors, the excellence of the water, 
and abundance of air and exercise, by which 
means he had never had recourse to the 
druggists' shops, and had never administered 
to his poor patients any compounds, though 
he was able to do much good by the in- 
fusions of herbs given singly, of which the 
traditions of his countrymen had taught him 
the use. 

*' But to return," said he, " to the point 
from which we started — cookery for the sick. 
Do your homGeopathic physicians understand 
the preparation of food better than their an- 
tagonists in the old system ? " 

** Very little ^ if at all,** said the Traveller : 
** they know better what is bad, and prohibit 
deleterious ingredients ; but I do not think that 
they are much more learned than the others 
with regard to the preparation of food for the 
sick^ to ensure what is good. But again let me 



90 T'he First Prtnctples 

ask. How can you attend to both these schools 

of cookery ? " 

" I maintain there is only oney^' said the 

Hermit. '* Wherever there is a chicken boiled 
properly y in a double vessel, there must neces- 
sarily be the best chicken broth ; wherever veal 
is boiled, or stewed, there ought to be the purest 
veal broth, which is nearly as mild as chicken, 
and will be in a jelly that may be taken out 
like lumps of ice. The same with beef, 6cc. 
&c. And a boiled turkey will produce one 
of the most excellent stocks for white soup, 
without any destruction of the flesh, but it is 
too rich for an invalid, and not as light as the 
jelly from a boiled chicken." 

The Traveller here interposed with a ques- 
tion, which was, how stocks which were 
always highly flavoured if they were prepared 
for soup stock, could be fit for invalids. 

The Hermit told him that it was a common, 
though a great mistake, to suppose that all the 
flavour necessary for soup must be bestowed 
upon it in the first stewing, and that all sorts 
of meats must be stewed together; that, on 



of Good Cookery. 9 1 

the contrary, he not only never mixed the 
meats together when stewing, but he took care 
with the more delicate, such as veal and chicken, 
&c., not to put any vegetable to them when 
stewing besides a small quantity of onion or 
leek and celery, as other flavours could be 
added as required, when made into white soup. 
For beef, he had explained before, he allowed 
a pound of finely chopped mixed vegetables to 
every five pounds of meat. 

**This," said the Traveller, "would make 
a very diflferent stock from beef-teay which is 
generally ordered for invalids/* 

** Experience has taught me/' said the 
Hermit, " that of all the so-called * slops * 
ordered for invalids, beef- tea is the one which 
consumes the greatest quantity of meat to pro- 
duce the smallest results, and is the least liked, 
and of which the patient soonest becomes 
tired ; and I have never known a case of illness 
where the stomach could receive beef-tea more 
readily or with better effects than the pure 
broth from chicken jelly or veal jelly, which 
always, in my practice, is administered first; 



92 The First Principles 

and when a change is wanted, I have always 
found that the stock from beef, prepared as we 
did it the other day, with all the fat removed 
when cold, agrees perfectly with a convalescent 
patient, previously restored by the pure stocks 
of white meats." 

** I wish," said the Traveller, " I may be 
your guest, if I am again doomed to be unwell ; 
for, whether it was the manner of preparation 
or the kind I know not, but, when last ill, I 
longed for something different to the brown 
fluid called beef-tea." 

The Hermit assured him that he would be 
very glad if he had a slight indisposition, that 
he might prove the truth of his remarks, when 
he might have personal demonstration that sick 
cookery did not require a separate department, 
either in study or practice, to have proper 
broths always at hand, as the same principles 
of cookery which were so conducive to the 
preservation of health in the ordinary require- 
ments of life were to be applied to the restora- 
tion of health during illness. 

The Traveller said, that he was so anxious 



of Good Cookery. 9 3 

to test his friend's skill in cookery for an in- 
valid^ that he could almost make up his mind 
to travel from inn to inn for a fortnight, that 
he might ensure being very unwell when he 
sought the shelter of his friendly cell again. 

The Hermit said, he believed an additional 
great cause of indigestion was the confec- 
tionary usually eaten ; for that, although it was 
generally admitted, by those who had any 
pretension to medical knowledge, that a fair 
proportion of fruit, as well as vegetables 
and farinaceous food, was requisite for a 
healthy person, to nourish and support the 
human frame, yet that, even before he retired 
from the world, those dishes commonly called 
** confectionary '* were very often most un- 
wholesome, although a goodly list of receipts 
existed, of excellent and innoxious tarts and 
puddings; and he inquired of the Traveller 
whether there was any improvement in this 
particular, or the reverse. 

The Traveller said that he could not suppose 
there was any improvement^ inasmuch as he very 
seldom met with a good tart ; and when he did 



^ 



94 The First Principles 

find unobjectionable contents under the crust, 
the quantity of fruit was so meagre, and the 
paste itself was so full of butter and so indi- 
gestible that he seldom attempted to eat it, and 
that he had never seen a tart with paste the 
least like what the Hermit had set before him, 
and of which he had partaken without the 
slightest subsequent suffering — that puddings 
were better understood of farinaceous materials, 
though generally they contained far too many 
eggs, but that fruit puddings (the best of all) 
were seldom seen, and that, when they were, 
the paste was equally objectionable, and redo- 
lent of butter. 

The Hermit said that, from all accounts, it 
appeared there must be a complete mania for 
butter in the present age, or an utter ignorance 
of any other substitute, and that, although he 
allowed the use of butter in moderation in 
cakes and tarts, yet that he never allowed the 
use of butter in a boiled fruit pudding, the 
paste of which ought always to be made of 
suet; and that he considered wholesome con- 
fectionary ought to consist for the most part of 



of Good Cookery. 95 

puddings and tarts made of fresh fruits in sum- 
mer, and of bottled fruits in the winter, pre- 
served without sugar, or with as little as 
possible, so as to retain the greatest amount 
of their natural flavour when fresh, compatible 
with their keeping. 

The Traveller said, that almost everything 
now was turned into syrup, or into sweetmeat, 
and that, instead of sugar being secondary, it 
was made the principal ingredient ; that jellies, 
instead of being flavoured by fruit, were seldom 
anything but vehicles for wine, brandy, liqueurs, 
or other strong and objectionable cordials. 

The Hermit promised that, on some future 
occasion, the Traveller should have a specimen 
of his lemon jelly, and should assist in making 
it. It was arranged that the next day*s dinner 
should be a fillet of veal,* as the Traveller 
complained much of his recollections of that 
dish, and was anxious to know how the Her- 
mit baked it. 

The fillet having been stufi^ed by the widows 
in the usual manner, after the fillet was 

• See Appendix No. XII. 



96 T!he First Principles 

weighed, and a little water added, it was 
placed in the iron vessel known in Wales as the 
Ffwrn fach (see No. I. Plate), but without an 
inner tin ; on the top of the veal was placed a 
certain quantity of fresh mutton suet. The 
Hermit said, if they had had a sufficient quantity 
of the fat of veal, he would have preferred it; but 
not having a loin, the widows could not make 
use of that material, and that mutton or beef- 
suet would do exceedingly well. Over the 
suet they placed the rind from a piece of cold 
boiled pork. The lid was then shut down, 
and the Ffwrn fach put into an iron oven, 
which, having been heated, had had a// the fire 
taken out, when the veal was put in. It re- 
mained there for three hours, and was then 
taken out, and put upon a hot dish, while the 
liquor was poured off into a pan, and left till 
the next day. The veal was served with a 
pure gravy, which had been preserved from a 
previous occasion. 

The fillet of veal was accompanied by a 
tongue,* which had been boiled in a double 

• See Appendix No. XIII. 



of Good Cookery. 97 

- ' III ■ j I . 

vessel, and was peculiarly tender and well 
flavoured. The Traveller was anxious to know 
how it was salted; but the Hermit declined 
entering upon that department, until his guest 
knew more of fresh-meat cookery ; but he 
promised that he would the next day teach him 
how to make root of tongue soup, as he ex- 
pected a fresh tongue, the roots of which were 
very valuable for soup, and very injurious when 
salted with the tongue, as the roots often pre- 
vented the tongue from keeping. 

This remark reminded the Traveller of 
another of his misfortunes, as he recollected 
that he had often met with an unpleasant taste 
in the salted root of a tongue, even when the 
lean part was good; which the Hermit said 
proceeded from the difficulty of making the 
kernels (which are the chief part of the root) 
imbibe salt effectually. 

The Traveller also wished to know why the 
Hermit, who was such an adept in the art of 
roasting, allowed a fillet of veal to be baked ? 
The Hermit said that he should not attempt to 
give a scientific reason^ as he was not a scientific 
man, but a plain practitioner — that, generally 

H 



98 The First Principles 

speaking, successful results in cooking were 
easily accounted for by a little common sense 
and intelligence — but that, on the present occa- 
sion, he could only answer him by fact without 
explanation. That a fillet of veal was an excep- 
tion to the general rule, which was, that roast- 
ing produced superior results to baking; but 
that a fillet of veal roasted, was generally hard on 
the outside, and dry within ; and that although 
very great care and incessant basting might 
obviate or modify these effects, yet that it was 
never so tender or so juicy as when baked in a 
slow heat, in the manner he had just witnessed, 
and that, in that way, it was impossible to detect 
the common baked taste, or the flavour of fat 
frizzled in an oven ; the inside was juicy, the 
outside was brown, but not hard or scorched, 
and the gravy that proceeded from it was a 
very pure jelly, perfectly clear, and most useful 
for various purposes, for gravies or sauces, for 
made dishes, or as an addition* to soup, or to 
eat as a savoury jelly for cold pies.* 

The Traveller said that he thought a fillet 

* The Hermit particularly objected to Aspic jelly, which he 
considered spoiled the flavour of the pie. 



of Good Cookery. 99 



of veal must be often a very inconvenient dish, 
as in a small family there might not always 
be a tongue to dress at the same time, and 
a Ham had a very awkward and unwieldy 
appearance. 

The Hermit perfectly agreed in this remark ; 
but said that when he had not a tongue^ the 
widows boiled a small Ham in the same manner, 
in a slow heat, and in a double vessel, which 
Ham would afterwards keep a considerable 
time, and which he used frequently for fried 
sandwiches, with veal, chickens, or rabbits. 

The Traveller's countenance indicated that 
he had never heard of " a fried sandwich ; " 
and, therefore, the Hermit, without waiting for 
inquiry, proceeded to tell him how they were 
made. — He first of all said, that he had pieces 
of bread cut in the form and size of sandwiches, 
which he placed in pure cold broth, until they 
had absorbed as much of the liquid as they 
could well take up without being too soft ; 
he then had chopped herbs sprinkled on each 
side of the bread, and placing very thin slices 
of Ham between two pieces, covered the 

H a 



100 T^he First Principles 

whole with batter, and had it fried of a golden 
brown. These sandwiches were to be served 
round the meat with which they were to be 
eaten. 

The Traveller asked the Hermit a propos of 
white meats, what he considered the best 
method of dressing rabbits ? 

He replied, that tastes were so various, he 
could only answer for himself; but that he 
thought a rabbit fricassee an excellent white 
made dish, and it was arranged to have fricasseed 
rabbits for the next day;* preparatory to which 
two rabbits were cut up limb from limb — the 
heads being left whole — and, having been 
weighed, water was added, a small quantity 
of chopped onions, ditto celery, and a little 
salt, and being put down in the inner tin of 
the Ffwrn fach, both lids were put on, and they 
were left to stew slowly for some hours, when 
they were put away in a cold place, meat and 
gravy altogether. 

The Traveller was surprised, the next day, to 
find the gravy from the rabbits was firm, clear, 

* See Appendix No. XIV. 



of Good Cookery. i o i 

well flavoured, savoury jelly, a portion of which 
the widows took, and put on the stove in a double 
vessel. When melted, and hot, they added 
such herbs and vegetables as they considered 
were required for flavouring, after adding some 
fresh cream ; and, when that process was com- 
pleted, they put in the two rabbits, cut up, 
and let it stew slowly all together, frequently 
stirring; and, before it was served, chopped 
parsley was sprinkled plentifully. 

This fricassee fiiUy justified the Hermit's pre- 
dilection. He informed his fi-iend that the 
rabbits might be floured before the pieces were 
put in, which would make the sauce thicker, 
but would decidedly diminish the flavour ; and 
therefore, if it was desired to produce a thicker 
sauce, the object should be eflfected by frying 
finely chopped onions, celery, and a little 
potato, together with some fine top fat, for 
ten minutes, and then making it into a paste 
by stirring in a little flour for five more 
minutes, in the same manner as soup — that 
this vegetable and farinaceous paste would 
thicken the rabbit jelly and the milk, or cream, 



k 



102 TAe First Principles 

without diminishing the savoury flavour, but 
rather adding to it, though, for his own indi- 
vidual taste, he preferred it in the present 
simpler mode, as preserving in greater perfec- 
tion the pure flavour of the rabbits. 

When their dinner was concluded, the Tra- 
veller expressed his hope that the Hermit 
would let him receive some further instruction 
in soups, which was promised for the following 
day — the Hermit observing that it was par- 
ticularly convenient, as the remains of the 
fricassee would make an excellent white soup. 
It was also agreed that they were to have in 
addition, for dinner, a boiled shoulder of Welsh 
mutton with onion sauce. 

The next day, the proceedings were as 
follows : — ^The Shoulder of mutton was put in a 
double vessel, with chopped onions and celery, 
and some water, and simmered slowly, for three 
hours. The remaining rabbit jelly, which was 
not used for the fricassee, and the jelly from the 
fillet of veal, was put on in a double saucepan ; 
and, while heating, the widows chopped {Jinely) 
onions, celery, and potatoes, with a small 



^■P^^M^^MWMiv^^^^^Ha^^lii 



of Good Cookery. 103 

quantity of carrot. This was stirred for ten 
minutes with ftesh top fat ; then as much flour 
shaken in as made a stiff paste^ and, by rapid 
stirring over a steady heat five minutes more, 
in a single saucepan, the whole of the fat was 
soon absorbed by the flour, and the entire mass 
was flavoured by the vegetables, and transferred 
to the hot rabbit and veal stock in a double 
saucepan, where, after being well stirred, it 
was left to stew; after which it was passed 
through a wire sieve, and returned into the 
inner saucepan, when two or three tea-spoonfuls 
of cream were added, a nosegay of sweet herbs 
was stirred round, and all the rabbit meat left 
from the fricassee was then put in (but de- 
prived of the bones). The pieces were reduced 
to the size and form of pulled chicken, which 
being stirred, and stewed for about a quarter 
of an hour, were ready for the table* The 
shoulder of mutton being also ready, onion 
sauce* was poured over it, the recipe for 
which the Traveller wrote down. 

The Traveller said it would be impossible to 

• See Appendix No. XV, 



104 ^^^ First Principles 

believe that the Hermit's Welsh shoulder of 
mutton came from the same species of animal 
called " a sheep '* in London, or that two rabbits 
could have produced such a fricassee, and after- 
guards such a soup. 

The Hermit promised that the next day he 
should have the mutton-broth, (produced by the 
process of boiling the shoulder of mutton they 
,had just eaten,) v^rith the cold fillet of veal, 
which he said, in his opinion, would be much 
better cold than hot, and would also better 
demonstrate the tenderness produced by his 
method of baking the veal ; but to make 
amends for a cold dinner, he promised hot 
sausages.* 

The Traveller had by this time become so 
convinced of the practical culinary knowledge 
of the Hermit, that he was fearful of asking 
any question that might seem to be dictated by 
impertinent curiosity; but as he had not seen 
or heard of any pork for making sausages, he 
wondered what his host would do. 

The following day the Hermit called his 

* See Appendix No. XVI. 



of Good Cookery. 105 

attention to the surface of pure and solid fat 
on the mutton-broth, round which the senior 
widow dexterously passed a knife, and taking 
it up, displayed it entire, like a round cake. 
He then asked him to taste the broth (cold as 
it was), and the Traveller was surprised to find 
that it was palatable as well as pure, that he 
could have taken more with pleasure, even 
without its being warmed. 

The second widow then put it on the stove 
in a double saucepan, and gave a little addi- 
tional flavour, by stirring round pieces of celery 
and onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs, which, 
when the right medium of flavour was obtained, 
she took out. She then, with a three-pronged 
fork, mashed some previously boiled carrots, 
which were added to the broth, and had the 
appearance of marygold leaves, but not being in 
season, he could not obtain mary golds, which 
otherwise he would have preferred. She then 
cut the lean that remained on the shoulder of 
mutton, into rather thick but pointed mouthfuls, 
and added them to the broth. She also added 
two or three spoonfuls of pearl-barley, which 



1 06 T^he First Principles 

had for some time previously been swelling to 
its utmost limits in broth, in a double saucepan, 
surrounded by hot water ; the last finish being 
a sprinkling of fresh chopped parsley. 

The Hermit apologized for having a species 
of cold meat, which was decidedly not light of 
digestion, but the Traveller begged he would 
not distress himself on that account, as his 
digestion had been so wonderfully strengthened 
by a long series of well-cooked dinners, that it 
would be a feast to him to be enabled again 
to eat cold veal, which he was sure he could 
now venture to do without any danger of bad 
eflfects. 

The Hermit's sausages were made of some 
of his stewed beef, chopped very fine, with a 
little tongue, and then pounded with a cer- 
tain proportion of beef suet, seasoned with 
pepper and salt, and flavoured well with 
powdered sage and onion; they were about 
half an inch in diameter, and three inches long, 
rolled in yolk of egg and crumbs, and fried of 
a golden colour, and, when perfectly dry, served 
with mashed potatoes. 



of Good Cookery. 1 07 



The Traveller was particularly well satisfied 
with the veal, the tenderness of which was 
remarkable, though he was at a loss to account 
for its being so juicy, which the Hermit 
attributed to the addition of the suet, which 
the slow heat had distilled equally through 
the naturally dry meat, while at the same 
time its own juices were preserved unim- 
paired in flavour. 

The sausages also occasioned various remarks, 
as the Traveller had no idea that sausages 
could be made of anything but pork. 

. The Hermit said, that he considered pork 
was a meat that ought never to be eaten except 
by those in perfect health; but that it was 
very possible, as he had just proved, to have 
excellent sausages made of beef, which was 
more digestible; in fact, that veal, mutton, 
beef, or any meat would make sausages, if 
properly flavoured with sage, &c., and, well 
fried, would be as palatable as if made of pork, 
and lighter of digestion. In addition to which^ 
in a small establishment, not more than one or 
two pigs were killed in a year, and, con- 



io8 The First Principles 

sequently, sausages, if only made of pork, 
would be very seldom tasted. 

The dinner was declared by the Traveller to 
be so good, that he and the Hermit were 
rather afraid they would not have a sufficient 
quantity of the fillet of veal left to make a cold 
veal pie, in the mysteries of which he was very 
anxious to instruct his friend. But his fears 
were groundless, and he had the pleasure of 
displaying one of the most complicated achieve- 
ments, in which he had instructed the intelli- 
gent Welsh widows Marged and Gwenllian.* 

Having taken away all the skin, and any re- 
maining stuffing, they cut up the veal very 
small, and then pounded it in a mortar, with 
as much of the jelly stock produced by the 
baking of the fillet as rendered it moderately 
moist; they added as much pounded tongue as 
was required to give it a proper degree of salt- 
ness, and then flavoured it with a very little 
pounded lemon-peel, a little basil, and a very 
little pepper. He said, it was difficult to give 
an exact recipe in writing for this pie, because its 

* See Appendix No. XVII. 



of Good Cookery. 1 09 



excellence would depend upon the flavouring, 
as well as the thorough amalgamation and tri- 
turation of all the ingredients; and the pro- 
portion of those ingredients must depend on 
the quantity of cold veal left and appropriated 
to the pie, and that^ again, must, of course, 
depend on the quantity previously eaten, a 
point to which he should not have thought 
of referring before dinner. 

The Traveller assured him that if he had 
had an idea that the remainder of the fillet of 
veal would form the basis of so interesting a 
lesson, he would not have indulged himself 
with eating so much ; and that, in truth, any 
reasonable mortal might have been satisfied 
with a dinner of such admirable mutton broth, 
and such excellent sausages. 

When the veal and the other ingredients had 
assumed the consistency of damp clay, and the 
Hermit and his fi-iend were satisfied the flavour 
could not be improved, the Hermit*s senior 
widow made a paste with flour and the pure 
fat which he had removed from the jelly stock 
of the baked veal. She then took a pie-dish^ 



1 1 o The First Princtples 

and after slightly brushin the inside over with 
the white of an egg, she put small pieces of 
vermicelli all over it ; she then lined the dish 
with paste, and put the veal into it, pressing it 
down with a spoon, so as to form a solid mass 
without hollows : when quite full and perfectly 
level, she covered the top with a piece of the 
same paste reserved for the purpose. She then 
placed the pie in the baking tin, which she 
filled with cold water, and as soon as the top 
crust was done, she pronounced it finished, and 
put it away in a cold place. The following 
morning she produced it at breakfast, and 
turning it upside down, it dropped out of the 
pie-dish, which was put away, and the bottom 
formed the top, covered all over with the ver- 
micelli, which had a very pretty appearance. 

The Hermit cut the end straight off, and the 
meat which adhered to it was one firm solid 
mass, and was attached to the crust, and cut in 
slices like cheese. 

The Traveller was delighted with the result, 
and the Hermit then informed him that when 
he went on long expeditions into the moun- 



of Good Cookery. 1 1 \ 

tains, he often provided himself with sand- 
wiches, made of one of these pies, which in 
his opinion were far preferable to slices of 
cold meat, and at all events made an agreeable 
variety. When not provided with a pie, he 
said he often had the remains of his boiled 
chicken, pounded, with the cold jelly produced 
from its broth or bones, and only flavoured 
with a little salt. 

** And what do you do,*' said the Traveller, 
** when you have only the remains of a roast 
chicken, and you take these peregrinations ? " 

** I am seldom at a loss,'* said the wise man, 
** for you must remember, that although roast 
chicken does not produce broth — which, when 
cold, is a fine jelly, yet that the bones ^ after 
the meat is eaten, will produce very substantial 
jelly, which is more than enough for my sand- 
wiches, although it has not so much flavour as 
the jelly produced by the boiling of the chicken 
itself." 

The following day the widowed handmaids 
produced a salt duck,* which the Traveller had 

* See Appendix No. XVIII. 



1 1 2 T^he First Principles 

seen in a soup plate, being carefully rubbed 
night and morning with salt for three days. 
The duck was put on in a double vessel, in 
the same manner as a boiled fowl, and was 
slowly done until it was quite tender. It was 
then served with onion sauce, made in a similar 
way to that previously described. The Hermit 
had also pea-soup,* which, being the remains of 
what they had had on a previous occasion, was 
varied in the following manner : — the Hermit's 
widows having already heated the pea-soup in 
a double saucepan, they prepared, under his 
directions, in another double vessel, a pint of 
pure veal stock, extracted from the bone of a 
boiled shoulder of veal, after the meat had been 
eaten. This was flavoured with chopped leeks, 
celery, and sweet herbs, and, when properly 
flavoured, the hot pea-soup was added to it, 
and the whole left to stew together for three- 
quarters of an hour, when, the vegetables being 
strained out, three spoonfuls of cream were 
added, and, when thoroughly mixed, the dimi- 
nution of flavour was restored by some addi- 

* See Appendix No. XIX. 



of Good Cookery. 113 



tional pieces of fresh onion and celery, being 
left in as long as was necessary, after which 
the soup was ready for the table. 

The Hermit said he sometimes added rice, 
which had been previously boiled in milk. 
This cream pea-soup was what the Hermit 
considered a luxurious dish^ but wholesome, 
as an occasional variety, for those in health who 
could afford it. The Hermit informed him 
that, if the cream was added before the soup 
was strained, there might be no necessity for 
any additional flavour, the only objection to 
which was, that the cream was somewhat 
diminished by adhering to the strained vege- 
tables. 

"What do you do," said the Traveller, 
" with the strained vegetables ? *' 

** They are added,*' replied his host, *' to the 
broth of the widow cooks' suppers, or to the 
broth for the poor. They are excellent." 

The Traveller then asked the Hermit if he 
would excuse the liberty he took in asking 
where he had met with the receipt for this 
last soup. 

1 



1 1 4 The First Principles 

" I can assure you/* said the good man, " I 
never met with such a receipt, but the natural 
course of circumstances, in domestic manage- 
ment, has taught me such an immense variety 
of soups as would, if written down, form a 
volume in itself; but if you and your friends 
would only follow my advice, after learning 
the proper mode of extracting, instead of de- 
stroying, the juices of flesh, fowl, and vegetables, 
you would never require a book of receipts to 
enable you to have good soups, as the varieties 
are endless which one's own intelligence daily 
invents, according to the materials at hand, 
from the accidental provision of meat boiled 
or stewed necessary for the maintenance of an 
establishment more or less numerous/' 

The Traveller said, he was not sufficiently ad- 
vanced in culinary knowledge to comprehend the 
possibility of the mere possession of materials 
producing invention without actual receipts. 

The Hermit assured him that he should 
consider the time spent in his cell as half 
thrown away, if he did not succeed in making 
him understand the truth of his assertion, by 



of Good Cookery. 115 

enabling him individually to exemplify it ; and 
if he was not too proud to submit occasionally 
to a culinary catechism^ he thought it would 
very much assist his progress in the practical 
knowledge of the culinary art, as well as im- 
press on his mind what he had seen, with a 
view to his own information or the instruction 
of others. 

The Traveller assured him that, although he 
knew much more since he had had the benefit 
of the Hermit's instructions than he had ever 
known before, that he was infinitely more 
humble than he had previously been, because 
he daily felt how much more he ought to 
know ; and how many years he had been wan- 
dering about the world, grumbling and com- 
plaining, without calling into action the powers 
of intellect and observation, which are more or 
less bestowed upon all mankind, and which 
must improve by exercise, and tend to increase 
general as well as individual good. 

The Hermit, finding his friend and pupU in 
so excellent a frame of mind, thought that he 
had better begin at once, lest he should change 

I 2 



1 1 6 T!he First Principles 

- -- ^- ■__■_ _ _ _ 

'his opinion^ and he announced his intention of 
continuing the same plan whenever opportunity 
.permitted* 

The Traveller repeated his readiness to do 
his best ; but obtained the Hermit's promise to 
instruct him afresh, wherever he found he 
was deficient, which he feared would very 
often be the case. 

The Hermit then commenced with the fol- 
lowing question : — 

** From what you have seen since you have 
resided in my cell, what do you consider the 
first objects to be attained by cookery? or, 
rather, what are the principles that every 
rational being, who has authority over the pre- 
paration of food, ought to understand and be 
able to have carried out ? State also the reasons 
which ought to induce all persons to promote 
the practical application of such principles." 

The Traveller looked as if he thought that 
the examination was likely to be more serious 
than he had anticipated, but he was ashamed, 
after all the trouble that his venerable host had 
taken, to appear to shrink from the ordeal ; and. 



of Good Cookery. 117 

conquering his natural indolence^ he determined 
to do his best 

** I suppose/* said he, " that the first object 
to be obtained is a well-cooked dinner ; and 
the reasons which ought to induce all persons 
to promote good dinners are, without a doubt, 
the promotion of health as much as the gra- 
tification of the palate ; and, in my opinion, a 
large proportion of those distressing sufiTerings 
called * dyspepsia,* to which I have been a 
martyr for years, are to be attributed to the 
unwholesome food which is given to us poor 
mortals through the grievous ignorance that 
prevails in the science of cookery, which ren- 
ders what ought to be our nourishment our 
poison, without the satisfaction which some 
people derive from physic, in the belief that 
the more nauseous it is, and the more they 
suffer from it, the better they will be at some 
future time of unknown date." 

The Hermit could not repress a smile at the 
characteristic answer of his guest, as he had 
long perceived that his attendance upon the 
scientific lectures, of which he was so proud^ 



1 1 8 T^he First Principles 

had not taught him combination, and in the 
answers which he now received it appeared 
that he had lost sight of all objects excepting 
the gratification of his palate and the benefit of 
his health ; he however thanked him for his 
reply, but added that his own objects (in the 
attention he had given to cookery) had been 
much more extensive than those just mentioned, 
and that his own tastes were so very simple 
that the gratification of the palate alone 
would never have induced him to make a 
practical study of cookery, that he could not say 
with truth that he had ever suffered to any 
great extent from those dreadful concoctions 
described by the Traveller (the result of the 
idleness and ignorance of teachers or artificers) 
so as to be compelled, on the score of health, 
to devote his time to practical cookery : his 
own first great object had been to ascertain the 
best method for prevention of waste, which he 
considered a very great sin, as everything that 
was wasted was a robbery of the poor, and that 
great fact could not be too strongly inculcated 
upon the minds of all young people from the 



of Good Cookery. 119 



first dawn of reason. He knew that in pro- 
secuting his experiments to prevent waste, he 
had day by day become more enlightened as 
to the fact that the better the cookery the 
less the waste — by better he did not mean the 
common very vulgar notion that by increasing 
the quantity of expensive materials a dish must 
necessarily be improved, but he meant that 
the taste of a dish was not improved, but 
the contrary, by the utter destruction of any 
material, and that its reduction (viz. boiling 
away) in the process of preparation for soup 
did not improve the taste, and was not only 
totally unnecessary, but in many cases rendered 
good food unwholesome and unpalatable. 

The Traveller here interposed, and begged 
to know if the Hermit really meant to assert 
that if he was obliged to superintend a banquet 
where he would desire to obtain the very best 
results, as far as the palate was concerned, that 
he would not then consider it necessary to 
destroy a considerable quantity of meat for the 
production of soups and gravies, as he recol- 
lected when a boy being shown in triumph by 



120 T^he First Principles 

a cook an immense lump of solid stuff that 
looked like a compressed mass of wet brown 
cotton, or thin pack-thread, which he was in- 
formed had once been the best meat, veal and 
beef, which had been reduced to the state above 
described to make soup for a great dinner-party ; 
that not being able to believe such a metamor- 
phosis could have taken place, he (school-boy 
like) asked to taste it, when to his astonish- 
ment he found that there was no more re- 
semblance to meat than a bit of soaked paper, 
and he was informed that even dogs and cats 
would not touch it, as there was not a particle 
of nourishment or flavour left, and he asked the 
Hermit whether such an immense sacrifice of 
food could really have been made without any 
advantage ? 

The Hermit assured him that it was not 
only without benefit to man or beast, but that 
the soup would not be at all better, probably 
not near as good as what he could himself 
make any day from meat which was only 
stewed in a double vessel sufficiently to be 
wholesome food for eating afterwards ; that the 



of Good Cookery. 121 

miserable material which he had well described 
as resembling wet cotton or paper was destroyed, 
for no one justifiable or desirable result, that 
the first and best part of the distillation had 
been entirely injured by boiling away, and that 
the meat had been destroyed to produce a suffi- 
cient quantity for use in consequence of the 
wilful sacrifice of more than half the produce 
by continued boiling away in a single vessel. 

This reply seemed to make the Ttaveller 
very melancholy, and he afterwards confessed 
that he could not help thinking how much 
people had to answer for who thus unnecessarily 
permitted the wholesale destruction of food, of 
which so many were in want. 

The Hermit could not resist clapping his 
hands with delight at this avowaL " My dear 
friend,'* said he, " have I succeeded in con- 
vincing you of the truth of what you have 
just uttered ? But how is it possible you have 
been so many years without thinking of this 
before ? " 

" Because,*' rejoined the other, " I never 
was taught to thinks and I did not take to it 



122 The First Principles 

naturally. I have thought more since I have 
been in your cell than I ever did before in my 
whole life. I used to listen to lectures upon 
abstruse subjects, which to tell you the truth 
I felt were exceedingly dull, because I did not 
understand half that was said, and they did not 
relate to any matter of importance or interest 
in my own sphere of life ; but from seeing so 
many others similarly circumstanced who ap- 
peared satisfied that their hours were very well 
spent when listening to what would never be 
of the least use to them in their practical life, 
I supposed that I must be a much wiser man 
by thus spending my time, and I plumed my- 
self not a little in recording in my diary, and 
repeating to my acquaintance, the numbers of 
lectures on chemistry and electricity I had 
attended, although I cannot deny that I never 
had the slightest turn for those studies. I was, 
therefore, not a more informing companion 
from having been so patient though inatten- 
tive a listener. I now see that I might have 
done more good in my generation if I had made 
use of my powers of observation, in connection 



of Good Cookery. 123 



with the powers of reasoning, which would 
have assisted me to some practical results bene- 
ficial to myself or others." 

The Hermit then reminded hisTriend that he 
had not answered the second • question of his 
catechism, for that day, viz., ** the reasons 
which ought to induce all persons to promote 
the practical application of such principles.** 

The Traveller did himself more credit by 
his answer on this occasion than on the former 
one, and replied without hesitation, " Those 
reasons are the prevention of waste, on the 
principle that bad cookery not only robs the 
poor, but injures the health of all classes/* 

The Hermit was well satisfied with this 
answer, and arrangements were made for the 
next day's practical instruction, when the dinner 
was to consist of root of tongue soup,* which 
the Welsh widowis immediately began to pre- 
pare, and a roast chicken. 

The roots of tongue having been washed 
and immersed in spring-water, were placed in 
the inner tin of the Ffwrn fach, which being 



* See Appendix No. XX. 



1 24 The First Principles 

of very thick iron the Hermit said he always 
preferred, to obtain a slower heat. A little salt 
was added, and chopped herbs — celery and 
turnip, with a little carrot, was added, and the 
whole left to stew very slowly for three or four 
hours ; it was then strained off to cool, and the 
roots of tongue put in a dish in a cold place. 

The next day the Hermit's senior widow 
removed, as on former occasions, a cake of fat 
from the top of the stock (which was a fine 
clear jelly), and the Hermit requested the Tra- 
veller to remember that in the case of roots of 
tongue he seldom allowed any water, the reason 
of which was that they required a great deal 
of soaking and washing, during which process 
they imbibed water ; consequently, if they had 
the proportion of water allowed to other meat 
which was not thus washed and soaked, the 
product would be broth instead of jelly ; and 
that it was some time before he had discovered 
the reason that he was so frequently disappointed 
in the jelly that he expected for his root of 
tongue soup. After the root of tongue jelly 
had melted in a double vessel, it was flavoured 



V* 



of Good Cookery. 1 25 

with the extra celery and herbs required. The 
chicken was roasted on a hook suspended to 
the woollen yarn in the usual way, the same 
system being pursued as that adopted with the 
leg of mutton. 

The Hermit pointed out that it was par- 
ticularly necessary to have the most delicate 
fat for basting fowls and turkeys, as the skin of 
a well-roasted bird of that description ought (if 
properly dressed) to be one of the best parts to 
eat, and an indispensable accompaniment to the 
white meat. 

The Traveller inquired whether butter would 
not be better than fat for this purpose ; but he 
was assured that it would not, as there was a 
peculiar rancid or sickly flavour in butter, when 
acted on by fire, which could almost always be 
detected in savoury cookery, if a sufficient quan- 
tity was used to saturate the roasting meat, and 
where a sufficient quantity of fat was not pro- 
duced by the bird or beast to be roasted — viz. 
chickens, pheasants, hares, rabbits, &c. &c. 
— pure suet was the best material to select, 
next to the fat of veal ; but that no one need 



126 7 he First Principles 

complain of a chicken roasted with the fat from 
the stock of stewed beef, which was what he 
had used that day. 

The Traveller said that he had frequently 
been offended with the strong taste of the 
roasted chicken skin, and he wished to know 
what the Hermit supposed the cause to be. 

His reply was, that no doubt what was 
commonly called dripping, (viz. the fat from 
the gravy produced by roasting brown meat,) 
being commonly employed for the purpose, 
which had probably been frying in the drip- 
ping-pan for hours, instead of being raised into 
an earthen pan each time the meat was basted, 
as might be remembered with his leg of mutton, 
and which plan he had pursued with everything 
else; but that he never used the dripping, 
even thus carefully preserved, for fowls and 
game, lest it should impart a flavour of roasted 
butcher's meat ; though, if he should ever be 
so circumstanced as to have nothing else to use, 
he should order one or more extra clarifications 
for the purpose. 

The Traveller said the Hermit had not 



of Good Cookery. 127 



given him any instruction yet about " clarifi- 
cation ^^ and begged to be enlightened. 

He was informed that fat properly clarified 
was melted over the fire in a double vessel, 
and, when in a liquid state, poured into a large 
pan of boiling water, and then well stirred 
with a large stick, and, being left to cool, the 
impurities sunk to the bottom, or adhered to 
the lower surface of the cake, whence they 
were easily removed with a knife; and this 
process of clarification* might be repeated two 
or three times if desirable. The Hermit said 
it was a process indispensable to good manage- 
ment, as there are very few, if any, households, 
where there is not more fat than is required for 
the consumption of the family, although its 
consumption is greatly increased where it is 
properly used and Jkept separately, and where 
butter is entirely repudiated for savoury 
cookery. The Hermit then promised his 
friend a sight of the clarified stores of this 
valuable, but generally despised and neglected, 
material, which could not then be inspected, 

* See Appendix No. XXI. 



128 • T^he First Principles 

as the senior widow announced that the fowl 
was beautifully frothed, and the roots of tongue, 
previously stewed, having been cut into mode- 
rate-sized squares, after being deprived of fat, 
skin, and sinews, were about to be put into 
the soup made from them. 

The Traveller was again well satisfied with 
his dinner, especially with the bread sauce,* 
which the Hermit allowed him to write down 
as a regular receipt, where it will no doubt be 
found with other receipts by the reader in due 
course of time. 

The next day the Hermit introduced the 
Traveller to a very cool recess in his larder, 
which had been hollowed out of the rock into 
the form of a cupboard, with shelves of the 
same material, on which were arranged little 
red and yellow pans, which held two and three 
pounds each. They had each a piece of paper 
or white calico over the top, with a small piece 
of flat wood which fitted closely within the rim. 
The Hermit's widows uncovered several of the 
pans, and each of them appeared to be filled 

^ See Appendix No. XXII. 



of Good Cookery. 129 

with an ivory-like material^ of which the only 
difference was, that some were whiter, and 
some of a yellower tint than others. 

The Hermit explained that the whitest 
was from mutton, and clarified dripping ; the 
yellowest was beef fat and marrow, not only 
the marrow taken out of the tube of the 
bones of beef called by that name, but was 
also produced from the bones themselves, 
broken up and stewed in water, after all the 
solid marrow had been taken out of the tubes.* 
The Hermit took this opportunity of recount- 
ing to the Traveller- the result of his practical 
experience with regard to the production of 
marrow from bones which appeared to be en- 
tirely bare and completely hollow, but which, 
when broken up and subjected to slow heat 
in a digester, yielded a large proportion of 
marrow to the weight of bones. 

The Traveller inquired to what use he ap- 
propriated these various stores. 

The Hermit informed him that the marrow 
was equal to butter for tart paste, and superior 

♦ See Appendix No. XXIII. 

K 



130 T^he First Principles 

to it for the paste of mince-pies, and that the 
widows always were instructed to keep a good 
stock of these different sorts of fat in hand, not 
only for basting, but for other processes which 
the Traveller had, or would witness ; but that 
every month the senior widow disposed of the 
superfluous stock while it was good, and that 
none might be kept to be so old as to be 
deteriorated. He also reminded his friend that 
he gave a great deal to the poor, but that 
clarified fat (and none was ever put away un- 
clarified) was not one of those things that he 
gave away, and that he considered it was of 
greater benefit to allow them to buy it; but 
when the demand of his poorer immediate 
neighbours was not equal to the supplies, he 
sent it by the senior widow to a small town, 
some miles distant, with an ass and cart, where 
she also purchased his groceries, disposing of 
the fat to be spared at from 3^. and 5^. to 6d. 
per pound, according to its quality. That fat 
which had been used for frying ought to be 
clarified three times over, and this, he believed, 
was used for candles, and it bore the lowest 



of Good Cookery. - 1 3 1 

price, as it was of inferior quality, and did not 
recover its natural colour, from having been so 
often subjected to the fierce action of the fire ; 
whilst the other kinds, from not having been 
thus exposed to burning heat, were perfectly 
good for culinary uses. 

The Traveller said he knew that where per- 
quisites were allowed, fat was taken by the 
cooks, and sold for their own benefit. 

The Hermit simply remarked, that those 
who permitted this to be done, were guilty of 
two sins; the first, wilful extravagance in 
housekeeping, and thereby robbery of the poor; 
the second, tempting a servant to dishonesty, 
by allowing a direct advantage to result from 
the neglecting of the first duty of her ofiice, 
which was to make the most of everything 
under her care, for the benefit of her employers, 
or the good of her fellow-creatures ; and having 
discovered that the Traveller was a good arith- 
metician, he gave him a small account to cast 
up, of the number of pounds of fat, which in 
the course of twelve months the Welsh widow 
had sold for him; by which his friend dis* 

K 2 



1 32 The First Principles 

covered to his surprise, that he had had not 
merely shillings, but many pounds' value, with 
which to assist the poor in other ways. 

The Traveller said that it appeared to him 
that the Hermit was practically charitable, and 
that he evidently himself saved to give ; but 
that as he was also the dispenser of charity for 
another benevolent individual, and that he 
would esteem it a favour, as he was now be- 
coming more alive to the requirements of 
others, if he would let him see the soup made 
for the poor, about which he had seen him 
engaged in superintending the widows twice 
each week, at which times he had purposely 
withdrawn himself from the recollection that 
their compact did not entitle him to pry into 
that department. 

The Hermit expressed his satisfaction that 
such a desire had been enkindled in his mind, 
and assured him that he had purposely refrained 
from inviting his companionship and assistance, 
from the belief that he would not take any 
interest in what did not immediately concern 
himself personally. 



of Good Cookery. 133 



The Traveller coloured^ from the conscious- 
ness that such would have been the case a short 
time before, and the next morning he engaged 
himself to be the Hermit's scholar in preparing 
soup for the poor.* 

It has already been stated that the Hermit 
had a very extensive and well-stored garden; 
containing vegetables of all descriptions — such 
a kitchen-garden as is to be met with in the 
general average of gentlemen's houses. The 
host and the visitor were followed by the 
widows, provided with baskets; the Hermit 
filled the baskets with the stalks and leaves of 
celery, carrots, onions, leeks, parsnips, and a 
few potatoes, and cabbage-leaves. On their 
return, these were all washed and chopped 
very small, while the water which had boiled 
half a round of beef the day before was being 
warmed in a large double vessel, The Hermit 
informed his friend that he never kept his half- 
rounds of beef in salt more than six days, and 
sometimes not more than five, by which means 
the flavour of the beef was very superior, and 

• See Appendix No. XXIV. 



1 34 ^^ First Principles 

« 

the water in which it was boiled was not 
salted like brine^ but retained some flavour 
of the meat^ and was consequently more 
nutritious. 

The widows then fried several soup-plates 
full of all the vegetables they had chopped, in a 
single saucepan, for ten minutes, with clarified 
fat; they then added oatmeal, and stirred it 
rapidly for five minutes more, and put the 
whole mass into the hot beef liquor, which, 
after stewing for some time in its double vessel, 
was converted into a very savoury soup; the 
oatmeal and vegetables having given flavour, 
and consistency, and counterbalanced any over- 
plus of salt in the beef liquor ; moreover, it was 
not the least greasy, because the fat that had 
been used had been previously entirely absorbed 
by the vegetables and oatmeal, and the Hermit 
called his friend's attention to the undeniable 
amount of additional nourishment, produced by 
this method of incorporating a certain quantity 
of pure fat in the manner which had been just 
exemplified. 

The Traveller inquired what the Hermit 



of Good Cookery . 135 

gave the poor when he did not boil half a 
round of beef. 

" On some occasions/' said he, " I have peas 
soaked as you have seen in the well, and then 
stewed, with as much fat as they would absorb 
without being greasy ; a small quantity of 
finely-chopped onions are then fried, and stirred 
round with flour or oatmeal, in the same 
manner 2S the other vegetables, which being 
added to the pea-soup, imparts a savoury flavour, 
completed by powdered or chopped mint. 
Another broth for the poor is made from two 
sheep's heads,* which are stewed a considerable 
time in a double vessel, with the proportion of 
a pint of water to the pound weight. The 
meat is then taken from the bones, the broth 
put away till the next day, and the bones 
broken small, and put down in the digester 
for some hours. The liquor is then poured off, 
the bones rebroken, and subjected to the same 
process, with fresh water ; the liquor is again 
strained ofi^, and when cold, both the first and 
second extract produces a good jelly ; the 

* See Appendix No. XXV. 



136 The First Principles 



-k« 



sheep's broth having itself an excellent flavour, 
is not thickened with fried vegetables and oat- 
meal, but a few chopped leek leaves and roots are 
put into it, and when served out, the meat from 
the sheep's head being cold, and cut in mouth- 
fuls, is put into the bottom of each jug before 
it is filled, which is a better plan than letting it 
be overdone, by stewing longer in the broth. 
The third material which I have for soup for 
the poor," said the Hermit, ^* is the jelly which 
is produced in considerable quantities by my 
faithful ancient British widows, with the aid of 
those valuable iron vessels, * the digesters ; ' they 
carefully collect every spare bone, and day by 
day break them small, and stew them down till 
the goodness is all extracted ; there is not any 
sort of bone that does not produce a first and 
second jelly, and veal bones will produce jelly 
after a third time's stewing. These jellies are 
as nutritious as any delicacy that can be in- 
vented; they only require the flavouring of 
vegetables, and they may be adapted for clear 
broth or thickened soup, and when there are 
any bits of dressed meat to spare, they are of 



of Good Cookery. 1 37 

course put into it. In my secluded life, there is 
seldom anything left upon plates which is fit for 
this purpose ; but in houses^ where many guests 
are received, it is certain that some of them very 
improperly take upon their plate a great deal 
more than they can eat, and it has always been 
my rule that every substance left in plates, should 
be put apart on a dish before they are washed, 
and if in the contents of this dish there are any 
good pieces of meat, they are neatly cut into 
dice, and put away to add to the next soup, as 
I consider one of the precepts most necessary to 
inculcate, is everything to its proper use, and I 
do not think that the proper use of meat^ any 
more than milk^ is to feed pigs /" 

The Traveller, on hearing this, said that he 
had been surprised, when in London, at seeing 
daily a cart come to the opposite house, accom- 
panied by two persons, with a bag and a tub, or 
vessel of some kind. These individuals used 
to go down the area, and regularly return with 
a loaded bag, of such an apparent weight, that 
it excited his curiosity to know with what it 
could be filled ; and that it had just struck him 



138 T^he First Principles 

that the contents must have been the remains 
of bread and meat, given or sold for pigs, 
which, after being aware of what might be 
done for the poor by care and economy, now 
really appeared to him a great sin. 

The Hermit said, that as he had not been 
in London for more than half a century, he 
was the last person who could explain what 
the Traveller had observed, but that he might 
depend upon it, that where food was not pre- 
served for a legitimate or moral use, it would 
be disposed of for very bad purposes. " I 
have," said he, **now given you an outline 
of the broths that I have most frequently 
made for the poor; but in large households, 
where there is a considerable consumption of 
roast, and boiled, and stewed meat, there is so 
large a quantity of bones, that quarts of jelly 
ought to be made every day, and gallons every 
week; and this ought to be a considerable 
proportion of the soup given to the poor, 
together with the boilings of salt beef and 
pork, which, however, if salted too heavily, 
or left too long in pickle, are not only de- 



of Good Cookery. 139 

teriorated in flavour^ and become hard instead 
of tender, whilst the water in which they are 
boiled is mere brine, and it is cruelty, instead 
of charity, to give it to the poor." 

The Hermit became animated upon this 
topic, and his eyes sparkled with indignation 
as he recounted a visit that he had paid to a 
Welsh cottage, where the mother of the family 
was very ill, and required the best pure jelly 
broth that could be produced. Knowing her 
condition, he had ordered the Welsh widows 
to send some chicken jelly in the morning. 
The boy who was sent for it had fallen down 
and broken the jug when out of sight of the 
trusty Gwenllian, and, being afraid to acknow- 
ledge his offence, he had not returned at all. 
The Hermit had also ordered a large supply 
of fresh made beef broth to be sent for the 
use of the children, of whom there was a large 
family, who, from the poverty of their parents, 
were really often in want of food. 

When he arrived at the cottage, he was 
surprised to find that the chicken broth had 
not been received, and he waited in expectation 



140 T^he First Principles 

until the little girl returned who had been sent 
for the beef broth, which was always mixed 
with other ingredients to make it more pala- 
table. By the time it arrived, the poor woman 
was so exhausted that she begged to have some 
for herself; but said the good Hermit, " Where 
an invalid is concerned, I never miss an oppor- 
tunity of tasting the food myself, when it is 
possible," and, to my astonishment, I found that 
the soup, which, (with the best preparation,) 
could not have been well adapted for her state, 
was so salty that it could only be compared to 
sea-water, and I dared not give it her, and was 
shocked to see the poor children devour their dry 
bread soaked in this dreadful brine, and I must 
confess, that nothing but my regard for the 
sick mother's nerves, would have prevented my 
exploding with violent passion ; but I checked 
myself, and thus I soliloquised, (though not 
aloud) : — *' Weak mortal ! the erring widows, 
who are the objects of your wrath, cannot be 
profited by your anger at two miles' distance ! 
Think of the present moment ! Here is the 
wretched woman dying for want of sustenance. 



of Good Cookery . 141 



your duty is to assist her/* But my good angel 
seemed to forsake me. What could I do ? 
There was nothing in the house but a crust 
of bread, or in the garden but a bed of leeks ; 
and although the leek is a most wonderful 
herb for nutritive, as well as for medical 
purposes, it did not suit the present case. 
Suddenly a thought struck me. There was 
an old woman not a field's distance, who 
had a hen and chickens. I did not feel the 
ground under my feet till I arrived at her door, 
and, quickly explaining my distress, I begged 
she would sell one of the brood. To this 
she objected, on the true plea that, for the 
purpose I required them, they were too young 
to be of any use ; but said she, ** I have a 
troublesome cock of last year, who fights 
with his uncle, and I should be willing to 
kill him for the sake of peace in his family; 
but were he my best fowl, I would kill him 
at your request, and for the benefit of my 
neighbour/* 

I begged her to follow me with the cock, 
while I returned on the wings of the wind, to 



142 T^he First Principles 

discover what utensil I could find to cook the 
fowl, when I had got it,* without waste. 

The cottage only produced an iron pot, some 
jugs, cups and saucers, one or two pans, and 
some basins. In a few minutes the pot was on 
the fire, with water to boil, and a jug was 
selected which would contain the chicken 
when cut limb from limb, which is always 
the best way of dressing a chicken, if it is 
intended solely for an invalid, because it can 
be frequently stirred, and is not only cooked 
much quicker, but the flavour is more per- 
fectly extracted, and each part is more tho- 
roughly done; and in three-quarters of an 
hour, by keeping the water briskly boiling 
round the jug, with a saucer on the top, I 
was enabled to administer a cup of chicken 
broth, which, though weak, was pure and of 
excellent flavour. I then added more water 
to the chicken in the jug, as more water may 
always be allowed when it is cut up. It then 
stewed an hour and a half longer, very slowly, 
after which it was poured off for future use ; 

* See Appendix No. XXVI. 



of Good Cookery . 143 

but as there was no digester there with which 
to extract the jelly from the bones, I taught 
one of the little girls how to take all the 
meat off, and, putting the bones into a basin, 
ordered them to be brought down to the 
widow Gwenllian, who, I promised, should 
perform this office, and send the produce back 
another day. 

On my return home, I felt that it was not 
only a satisfaction, but a duty, most severely 
to reprimand my hand-matrons; and, after 
minute investigations, it appeared that Gwen- 
llian, (the first in command,) had trusted Cattws^ 
the third under her, to fetch the half round of 
salt beef, and had instructed her how to put it 
on to boil, without detecting any error; but 
the fact was, that the piece then boiled had 
been forgotten the week before, and had lain 
a fortnight in pickle, the result of which was 
the brine I have described, and you may be 
sure that the delinquent did not escape severe 
censure, although I attributed more blame to 
the first in command, who ought noX^y first of 
allj to have forgotten this beef, or have trusted 



1 44 l^he First Principles 

the most inexperienced of her assistants to 
select the meat without supervision^ and she 
ought not to have allowed anything to be 
given away without herself flavouring and 
tasting it. 

"I think," said the Traveller, "my good 
friend, that you have been a little unjust, ac- 
cording to your own narration. Why should 
you have censured severely the inexperienced 
Cattws, when it appears to me that she per- 
formed a service in taking that unfortunate 
meat to be boiled^ which had she not done, 
might have remained a third week in pickle." 

" I was not unjust," replied the Hermit. 
" Cattws has been under instruction so short a 
time, that her sole duty was implicit obedience. 
She was told to go to the second pan from the 
door, instead of which she went to the third ; 
had she gone to the second, the beef would 
have been exactly in a proper state for boiling, 
and for broth for the poor, and those poor 
children would not have been injured by salt 
water ; whilst the forgotten beef in the third 
pan would not have been much the worse for 



of Good Cookery. 1 45 



>> 



eating by the next morning, which was the 
day for my making personal inspection of the 
salted provisions, when the negligence would 
have been detected, the beef would have been 
boiled, and the water would have been thrown 
away, 

*' As,'* said the Traveller, " you have so 
kindly recounted to me this little domestic 
history, allow me to ask how long you consider 
an intelligent female would be, or ought to be, 
in learning, under such instruction (as is to be 
found here), a sufficient knowledge of the real 
principles of cookery, to enable her to roast, 
to boil, and to stew well, and to make good 
and wholesome broth and soups ? " 

The Hermit shook his head. ** It is im- 
possible for me,*' said he, ** to compute how 
much sense and activity are required to make 
* one intelligent female^ I can, therefore, only 
say, that in my experience, a sharp and attentive 
girl of fifteen would learn each of the processes 
you mention, and be able to make two or three 
good soups in four months; but unfortunately, 
at that early age, ^ sharpness^ and ^ giddiness^ 

L 



146 The First Principles 



are more generally combined than sharpness 
and attention.^* 

" I should never dream," said the Traveller, 
" of a cook oi fifteen. What could put such 
an idea into your head ? Of course, at that 
age, no girl could be trusted with such a charge 
as must always devolve upon a cook — I mean, 
an intelligent female of five or six and twenty, 
or two or three and thirty." 

The Hermit again shook his head. "At 
that age," said he, ''if females are really 
intelligent, they have had some practice in 
endeavouring to do something for themselves 
or their families, either in or out of service, by 
which means they have been long convinced 
that they know a great deal, and therefore I 
should reckon an additional year of learning 
for every additional year of age after twenty, 
and, before that period, I should give a year 
or two more to instruct the girl of twenty, than 
I w^ould to the girl of fifteen or sixteen. No 
one but those who have tried the experiment, 
can imagine the difficulty of making any one in 
the kitchen department ««learn or leave off bad 
habits once acquired." 



of Good Cookery. 1 47 

"Am I then to understand," said the 
Traveller, " that these well-aged matrons have 
been in your service since they were fifteen ? " 

*' iVJ?," said the Hermit, " for although I was 
approaching my grand climacteric when I retired 
from^the world, I had too much regard for the 
propriety of appearances ; and being a bachelor, 
I selected Gwenllian, who was then of a very 
sedate age, but in addition of a most teachable 
disposition, with extraordinary activity, and 
great steadiness, and as she never had been a 
cook in her life, she knew no more of the culi- 
nary art than the ordinary life of a Welsh pea- 
sant had taught her. She was then a widow, 
and she did not suppose that she understood 
anything about cookery. She was cleanliness 
itself in her habits, as many Welsh peasants 
are, whose houses vie with the Dutch in 
neatness and comfort, but she had no suppo- 
sititious knowledge of cooking, and her mind 
was therefore as open to instruction as a child^s ; 
whilst her activity, and general habits of clean- 
liness, rendered her invaluable in that service, 
where, of all others, cleanliness is most indis- 

L 2 



148 The First Principles 

pensablc. My second widow, Bettws, was 
much the same sort of person, and sufficiently 
Gwenllian's junior to be under her control. 
The other widows have been added, and are 
each of them considerably younger, and will, 
I hope, by degrees, become props to the elder 
matrons, who, it must be expected, sooner or 
later may require more efficient aid, though, 
I trust, they will never be superseded/' 

The Traveller expressed his acknowledg- 
ments for the details he had received ; but said 
that he " did not see how the information now 
afforded would assist himself or others, who 
had not the advantage of living within reach of 
Welsh widows^ or, if they did, would not be 
able to instruct them ? " 

The Hermit said that his efforts for some 
weeks had been directed unceasingly to the in- 
struction of his guest in the first principles of 
cookery, and that he thought it impossible that 
his friend would not, within a reasonable period, 
have attained sufficient knowledge to impart 
a good deal of it to some intelligent gentle- 
woman, in his own class of life, who might. 



OBi 



of Good Cookery. 1 49 



perhaps, find somebody who knew nothing. 
The only difBculty would be, to find one who 
was not so proud of knowing nothings that they 
would disdain to be taught anything, but that 
of course instructions could be much better 
given by ladies than by gentlemen, and that he 
also supposed that there were, in England, old 
maids as well as widows, who might be found 
willing to be taught, and capable of learning. 

" Do you not think," said the Traveller, 
** that schools for cookery ought to be very 
good things ? There are places in London that 
are called schools for this purpose, and friends 
of mine have taken cooks who have been in- 
structed in them, and have sent cooks to be 
taught in some establishments of the kind — but 
I have ncver#heard of any satisfactory result." 

•* I cannot judge," said the Hermit, ** of 
what such schools may be, but I have no faith 
in schools for teaching any of the practical arts 
of life. The best school for those arts is home ; 
the best teacher is the mother or mistress of a 
family, and her first scholars ought to be her 
own daughters or younger sisters. When once 



1 50 The First Principles 

this principle is again acted upon, there will 
be no scarcity of good servants, and much more 
comfort, and abundance of proper liberality 
and true charity in every class that has any- 
thing to give, whilst the number of those who 
lacl^ charity will be greatly diminished." 

The Traveller replied, that although he 
believed there was no country in the world 
where there were so many charitable institu- 
tions as Great Britain, yet that since he had 
begun to reflect, he recollected many circum- 
stances which convinced him that there was 
a great want of discretion, as well as practical 
experience, in the present age ; that the Her- 
mit had demonstrated clearly how much more 
ought to be made for the maintenance of the 
body, by the proper preparation • of food, and 
that he was quite sure that souls would be 
more benefited, if all those who, with the best 
intentions, devoted their time to visiting and 
religious instruction, had more consideration for 
bodily wants, and rather more discretion as to 
the time of day which they selected for their 
readings, as it was impossible to expect a starving 



mm 



of Good Cookery. 1 5 1 



penitent to pay attention to religious instruction 
when very hungry or in the middle of a wash.* 

This remark led to a long conversation 
between the Hermit and the Traveller on the 
evil effect of the Poor Laws, as at present 
constituted, of which the Hermit could not be 
in total ignorance, from his intimate acquaint- 
ance with his poor neighbours, although 
happily, from their primitive habits of do- 
mestic industry, and the comparatively small 
population, he had not known many cases 
where parish relief was needed ; but he had 
known enough to inquire anxiously whether 
there was no hope of any philanthropic 
individuals devoting' themselves to the task 
of collecting and publishing statistics, which 
would easily prove that the present Poor Laws 
were productive of serious evils, that their 
effects were most undeniably demoralizing, and 
that their amendment was most necessary. 

The next day, the Hermit reminded his 
friend that it was time he should put him 
through his catechism again, and that, with 

* See Anecdote in Traveller's Note Book, 



152 The First Principles 

his approbation^ the next examination should 
be upon soups, which was a subject especially 
interesting. 

" I will/* said the Hermit, ** put a few 
questions to you after dinner; and in the 
meantime you shall see the preparation for 
minced veal ; * previous to which I will take 
the liberty of asking you how you would 
instruct a cook to make it ? " 

The Traveller had by this time become 
sufficiently humble to answer with some diji- 
dencey although he felt great confidence in 
doing himself credit by his reply — " I should 
have the veal chopped up/* said he. 

" May I ask/* said the Hermit, " what in- 
strument you would use for ^ chopping ? * ** 

" I mean,** said the Traveller, " reducing 
the veal into little bits, with a thing called a 
chopper — a piece of steel in a handle/' 

" Thaty' said the Hermit, ** would make 
a very inferior dish. Observe how Gwenllian 
proceeds/* 

Gwenllian, having placed a white board on 

* See Appendix No. XXVII. 



»■ ' I.- -. I ■ ^^Mwi I I ■■ v^^^^m^mmmmi^mmi^mmmm^a^t^m^Kam 



of Good Cookery. 1 5 3 



the table, cut slices from a cold baked fillet of 
veal, of the proper thickness. She then cut 
each slice into small square dice, having care- 
fully removed every particle of fat. 

The Traveller looked on w^ith attention for 
some time, and then said that he really thought 
chopping, instead of cutting, would have saved 
a great deal of time and trouble. 

** It would,*' said the Hermit, ** have saved 
both ; but, unfortunately, it would not have 
produced the desired result of a good dish of 
minced veal, and you will allow that there is 
no economy in being a s/iort time in making a 
bad thing ; but after you have tasted the present 
preparation, I will explain, as well as I can, 
why * chopping ' veal spoils the dish ; but 
whether my explanation is satisfactory or not, 
is of very little consequence, as such is the 
practical fact** 

After the veal had been thus prepared, it was 
slightly floured and salted, and, after being 
turned over and over with two forks, was left 
in a basin for an hour. Meantime, some pure 
veal jelly, made from boiling a shoulder of veal 



154 ^^^ First Principles 

in a double vessel, was put into the inner tin 
of the Ffwrn fach. When liquefied, it was 
flavoured with pieces of celery and onion, and 
a nosegay of sweet herbs, composed of margery, 
orange thyme, and basil. These were stirred 
round and round until the proper flavour was 
obtained, when some cream was added, and 
stirred with ' the same ingredient, until the 
whole had a most agreeable flavour. The 
vegetables and herbs were then taken out, and 
the floured veal, cut in dice, was put in, and 
well stirred for some minutes, after which the 
whole was covered with two lids, and the veal 
left to infuse, in a slow heat, for about half an 
hour, by which time the flour had thickened 
the sauce, and the veal had communicated its 
own flavour to the whole, and the Traveller 
pronounced his dinner to be as good as he 
ever desired to taste. 

The Hermit informed him that this was the 
simple way of making minced veal, but that a 
richer dish might be made by frying finely- 
chopped vegetables with the pure top fat from 
soup stock, and adding it to the veal jelly in 



of Good Cookery. 155 



the same manner that had been shown from 
hashed mutton; but that he considered the 
present plan produced a purer taste, and was 
more agreeable to his palate. 

The Hermit then commenced his queries 
about soups, and informed the Traveller what 
the materials were which were then in the 
larder — viz. a small quantity of veal jelly stock 
(not sufficient for soup for two) ; there was 
# also a small quantity of beef jelly stock, and 
a small quantity of pease stewed and pulped 
ready for soup. He asked what soup his 
friend considered had better be ordered for 
the morrow, considering the materials at 
command. 

The Traveller said that it appeared to him, 
that, although there was a great variety, there 
was not sufficient of anything for the purpose 
required ; and therefore that the only plan was 
to mix the veal jelly and the beef jelly together, 
which he now knew enough to be aware would 
make a very good soup. 

The Hermit said he was so far correct ; 
but, as they had had gravy soup the day before. 



1 56 The First Principles 

it would prove a great lack of contrivance 
to have the same sort of soup the day fol- 
lowing. 

The Traveller said he did not know what 
else to suggest, unless the pease could be made 
available. 

To this the Hermit replied that the pease 
were insufficient in quantity to do more than 
make pea broth, which, though a very good 
thing, was not the best thing that could be 
devised under present circumstances. 

In vain the Traveller ** racked his brains " 
to invent any other sort of soup ; he was fairly 
puzzled, and the Hermit was obliged to come to 
his assistance^ and to inform him that a certain 
portion of finely-chopped vegetables, prepared 
as he had before seen, and then mixed with 
the veal and beef jelly, passed through a wire 
sieve, and returned into the double, would be 
the first process he should direct. The next 
would be the addition of the minced veal left 
at dinner, with an extra spoonful of cream, 
previously flavoured with herbs and vegetables ; 
and that the whole mixture would make a 



of Good Cookery. 157 

most excellent extemporary soup, although the 
various stocks thus mixed together were not 
combined from any recipe, but simply from 
the knowledge which experience had produced 
from former experiments, with the same ma- 
terials at hand ; and the following day the 
practical results verified the Hermit's prog- 
nostications, previous to which the catechism 
was continued a little further. 

" Supposing," said the Hermit, '* that I had 
only the pease and some mutton broth, what 
would you advise ? " 

** I would make pea broth," said the Tra- 
veller, " as you say it is so good, by putting 
the pease into the mutton broth." 

" That," said the Hermit, " could be easily 
managed, certainly ; but how would you make 
it appear like pea soup, the quantity of pease 
being insufficient for that purpose? " 

" I would make a paste with vegetables," 
said the Traveller, *' in the same way that I 
have now so often seen that process performed 
by Gwenllian." 

**You are improving," said the Hermit. 



158 The First Principles 

** You would not have hit upon that expedient 
a week ago. But there is a better plan than 
that for mock pea soup, although yours would 
not be by any means bad, and indeed your 
plan is in part what I should do, with the 
addition of oatmeal * instead of flour to make 
the vegetable paste, which will assimilate with 
the pease, and produce a better imitation of 
the flavour of pea soup ; in fact, a very good 
mock pea soup may be made with oatmeal^ 
without any pease, after being well incorporated 
with the vegetable paste with which the stock 
is thickened, I will now ask you," said the 
Hermit, "how you would produce soup or 
broth, supposing you have no jelly stock in the 
house, excepting the jelly of mutton bones, 
and the remains of a mutton pie ? '* 

The Traveller, who had become much more 
inventive than on previous occasions, said that 
he would put the contents of the mutton pie 
into the jelly of the mutton bones, and thus 
make broth. 

The Hermit reminded him that the jelly of 

♦ See Oatmeal in Traveller's Note Book. 



of Good Cookery. 1 59 



the mutton bones would have very little, if 
any, flavour, and that consequently they would 
diminish the flavour of the contents of the mut- 
ton pie, without imparting any additional taste. 

The Traveller then, without much difliculty, 
discovered that the mutton bone jelly could be 
flavoured with vegetables and herbs so as to 
make it very palatable mutton broth, which, 
when added to the contents of the pie, would 
produce altogether an excellent mutton broth, 
the meat of the pie being in the best possible 
state for being eaten in the broth. 

The Traveller became so much interested 
with the soup examination, that he desired to 
prolong it; but the Hermit, having a great 
objection to overloading his pupil, declined to 
put any further interrogations till a future day. 

The next day a harrico of mutton * was the 
selected dish, of which the Traveller said he 
had never tasted but one good in his life, and 
then he had never inquired how it was prepared. 

The Hermit desired that he would state the 
particular faults of which he had to complain. 



♦ See Appendix No. XXVIII. 



1 60 T^he First Principles 

He replied that they might be comprised 
under two heads — being greasy, and having a 
very strong burnt flavour, very much like the 
odour of which they had before spoken, of 
cinders falling into the dripping-pan. 

Gwenllian and her attendant handmaids were 
hastened by the Hermit, and their proceedings 
were as follows : — ^The cutlets were taken from 
a neck of Welsh mutton, they were neatly cut 
(in the form of pears), but none of the fat was 
taken off the bones, which the Hermit said 
was a very great error in making a harrico. 
They were then placed in a well-tinned iron 
saucepan, where they were stirred and turned 
round and round, the saucepan being on the 
hottest part of the hot plate, until they were 
thoroughly heated through without burning, 
and had begun to brown without being at all 
dried, when they were immediately transferred 
into an inner tin saucepan, which stood ready 
surrounded by boiling water, and a little boiling 
water poured upon them, in which button 
onions had just been scalded ; the scalded 
onions were put aside, while some raw onions. 



of Good Cookery. 1 6 1 



finely chopped, with celery, a little turnip and 
carrot, and a nosegay of orange thyme, basil, 
and savory, with a sprinkling of salt, the 
whole being covered with two lids, were left 
to stew till tender, though not overdone ; and 
their gravy, being extracted to some extent, 
had produced, with the onion water, and other 
vegetables, a savoury sauce, which was strained 
into a basin, while the cutlets were drawn off 
to a cooler place. The basin of gravy having 
been plunged in a pan of cold water, the fat 
soon congealed on the surface ; and as soon as 
it could be taken off, the gravy was poured 
back upon the cutlets, and they were replaced 
in the outer saucepan as before. During this 
time, small pieces of carrots and turnips, neatly 
cut, had been stewing in another double sauce- 
pan, in some beef jelly stock, the attentive 
widows having taken care to anticipate the 
Hermit's inquiry as to whether the carrots 
had been put in half an hour previous to the 
turnips, as otherwise the turnips would be 
over-done, or the carrots half-cooked. These 
carrots and turnips, therefore, being quite 

M 



i62 The First Principles 

tender at the same time, were added to the 
cutlets, and in about ten minutes the harrico 
was ready for the table; and the Traveller 
pronounced that it was well flavoured, without 
the slightest taste of what he had before com- 
plained, and he particularly admired the clear* 
ness of the fat of each cutlet, at the same time 
that the gravy was so completely free from 
grease; while the vegetables were as savoury 
as the meat, in consequence of not having been 
stewed in water. 

The Traveller then claimed the Hermit's 
promise of telling him what in general occa- 
sioned harricos to be so very bad. The cause 
was explained as follows : that the cutlets are 
generally done in a frying-pan, and are not 
only burnt, but, from the intense heat and the 
narrow sides of the frying-pan, the fat often 
flies into the fire, or on the hot plate, and pro- 
duces a dreadful odour, the taste of which is, 
through the vapour, communicated to and 
absorbed by the cutlets; in addition to this, 
onions are often cut up and fried with the 
cutlets, and it is hardly possible to produce 



of Good Cookery . 163 



a more unconquerable flavour than that of 
onions and fat burned together. This once 
done, the Hermit said, no cook in the world 
could afterwards make a well-flavoured harrico ; 
and that, probably, little, if any, portion of the 
fat was removed from the gravy, if the same 
gravy was used, but that it was probable that 
the best essence of the mutton was thrown 
out of the frying-pan as useless, and that some 
nauseous concoction of butter and flour was 
used for gravy, mixed with bought ready-made 
sauce, and the whole, well peppered and filled 
up with carrots and turnips boiled in water, 
were served with the cutlets, which, having 
lost all their own essence and flavour, were 
smothered in a liquid made of other materials. 

The Traveller then requested the Hermit to 
question him, that he might see whether he 
really improved in culinary knowledge. 

** I shall confine myself," said the Hermit, 
" on this occasion, especially to matters of 
general daily economy in domestic manage- 
ment. Supposing that we have a small quan- 
tity of beef jelly stock, but not enough for the 

M 2 



164 ^he First Principles 

quantity of soup we require ; that we have half 
a pint of onion sauce, left from a boiled shoulder 
of mutton or boiled rabbits, and a small quan- 
tity of the remains of minced veal, with a pint 
of chicken jelly stock. Having those materials 
only, what would you propose to do ? " 

The Traveller said, that, having seen how 
each of the above-named sauces and made 
dishes had been prepared singly, he should not 
be afraid to mix them all together ; but in what 
order he did not know, or which to begin 
with. 

The Hermit said, that the first thing was to 
warm the beef stock in a double saucepan, 
then to add the chicken stock to it; then to 
flavour both with celery, onion, and a bunch 
of sweet herbs, until they obtained the proper 
flavour for gravy soup ; the onion sauce should 
next be stirred in, and then the remains of the 
minced veal, with its sauce, and more vegetables 
to flavour, if needed. ** The above mixture 
will make an excellent soup," said he, " which 
incidental circumstances alone taught me to 
invent, but for which a guest would very pro- 



J ^ 14 lUL... iii^"9^rw^^v^p^^*^V^gB^ra^p«nm«vaH*C999*^H|^iQHaaBVi091HHHe;99i^V9BQBim 



g/* GW Cookery. 1 65 

bably request the recipe. And, after all," 
' added the Hermit, " it is not so very extra- 
ordinary that it should be good; for, if you 
consider the ingredients of each, you find that 
they will all assimilate and improve, without 
counteracting or superseding the flavour of 
each other. Veal, chicken, and beef stock 
will always -go together. Onion sauce is made 
of new milk and flour, flavoured with scalded 
onions ; the sauce of minced veal is made from 
the jelly of the same meat, flavoured with 
* vegetables and enriched by cream. In this 
way, by understanding . how to combine the 
materials accidentally in hand, there never 
ought to be a difliculty in procuring soup 
where meat is cooked for other purposes ; and 
it is generally a great improvement to soups, 
for those who are in health, and able to take 
sufficient exercise to obtain a sharp appetite, 
occasionally to have solid morsels in their soup, 
provided those morsels are good. The remains 
of fricassees are a great improvement to white 
soup, if there is no butter in the fricassee." 
The Traveller said, that he should like to 



1 66 ^he First Principles 



know something about the preparation of fish, 
of which he had as yet seen and heard nothing. 

The Hernmit said, he could not give him 
much instruction upon that head, as he was 
too far inland for sea fish to reach him often ; 
and that of fresh- water fish he saw little except 
salmon, the preparation of which he thoroughly 
understood, and would give him a specimen of 
it the following day, if a salmon was brought 
in, but that a lobster did occasionally find its 
way to his wealthy neighbour, across the 
mountains, from the coast, and that he had 
been particularly successful in teaching the 
Welsh widows to make lobster sauce.* 

The Traveller clapped his hands, declaring 
that he had once had an illness of three weeks' 
duration, from lobster sauce, which certainly 
had not improved in the present century, and 
that it was, without exception, one of the most 
dreadful specimens of modern cookery as 
generally prepared. 

The Hermit said, that although he had never 
had the opportunity of perfecting his culinary 

♦ See Appendix No. XXIX. 



■■« 



of Good Cookery. \ 67 



knowledge by experiments in cooking many 
sorts of fish, that he had done enough to know 
that the same principles would be well applied, 
and he specified shrimp sauce.* 

" Of all things," said the Traveller, '' it is 
one of the worst made sauces, next to lobster 



sauce." 



**And yet, "said the Hermit, **it is one of 
the most easy to prepare, if only done the right 
way. The shells of the shrimps ought to be 
pounded slightly, and stewed with a very little 
water in a double vessel. The essence thus 
made from them, strained off, should be used 
instead of plain water, exactly in the same pro- 
portion as for the melted butter with which 
the parsley sauce was made on the day of our 
first dinner; and when the melted butter is 
thus made with the shrimp-shell water, nothing 
more is required than to put in the shrimps, 
and, after stirring them well, let them stew in a 
double saucepan for a quarter of an hour. The 
lobster sauce is on the same principle ; the shell 
ought to be pounded and stewed down with a 

• See Appendix No. XXX. 



i68 The First Principles 

little water in a digester; and, when cold, it is a 
lobster jelly, of which as much is taken as is 
required, instead of water, to add to the melted 
butter for the sauce. The lobster itself, in my 
opinion, always requires vinegar; and being 
pulled into moderate sized pieces, I have it 
soaked in vinegar for an hour or two before 
it is wanted. It is then drained from the 
vinegar, and put into the lobster jelly melted 
butter.'* 

The next day a salmon* was brought in, 
which had been very properly crimped, as soon 
as it was killed. The Hermit ordered it to 
be put into a stone reservoir, supplied from a 
famous well, the stream of which ran through 
his larder, in which the widows , plunged 
various pans of jelly stocks, in the summer, 
the moment they were taken off the fire, for 
the purpose of the quicker congelation of the 
fat, which the Hermit was very particular, in 
hot weather, in having immediately removed 
as soon as cold, although, in cold weather, its 
being left upon the jelly tended to preserve it 

* See Appendix No. XXXI. 



of Good Cookery . 169 

longer,* After the salmon had remained in 
spring water for an hour, it was prepared in the 
usual manner for boiling, having been pre- 
viously divided into three or four parts, and 
placed in a fish kettle of cold spring water with 
a little salt, and as much vinegar as made the 
water very slightly acid. The moment the water 
was scalding hot the strainer was taken up, 
with the fish upon it, and the water in which 
it had been scalded was poured into a pan, and 
removed to a cold place, where the strainer 
with the fish was placed across the pan, so that 
the fish and the fish water might gradually cool 
together; during which process the fish im- 
bibed its own flavour from the steam of the 
water in which it was scalded. 

The Traveller, who had viewed the above- 
named process with great attention, now looked 
at his watch, and was alarmed to find that it 
was half-past twelve o'clock, and the dinner 
hour was one o'clock. ** My excellent friend,'* 
said he, ** there is only half an hour before 
dinner, — now, how long do you propose that 

♦ See Appendix No. XXXII. 



170 The First Principles 



this salmon should remain here ? for it is not 
fully boiled I know, and the time is short/' 

*' Trust me, my good sir," said the Hermit, 
**our dinner will be on the table precisely at 
one o'clock; but as the proper preparation of 
a salmon brooks no delay, I gave directions to 
the widow Gwenllian to proceed with the 
preparations for our frugal meal." 

The Traveller turned pale, and then red ; he 
looked at his host, and then looked at the 
salmon. " I thought," said he, in a plaintive 
tone, ** that we were to have this salmon for 
dinner ? " 

" I never promised M^/," said the Hermit. 
** I promised instruction in the preparation ; 
but I never gave the date for eating it : and 
although, had it come in earlier, it might, of 
course, have been cooked and eaten on the 
same day, it will be infinitely better on the 
second day." 

Bettws having announced that dinner was 
on the table, the Traveller hastened, impelled 
by hunger and curiosity, to see what Gwenllian 
had been able to effect with her handmaidens 



of Good Cookery. iji 



alone. The dinner consisted of delicate Welsh 
mutton chops,* broiled upon a gridiron, with 
their own unadulterated gravy ; they were 
tender, savoury, and neither scorched nor dried. 
In addition to which were two boiled Bantam 
eggs, and two larger eggs, with baked apple 
dumplings. 

The Traveller requested the Hermit to tell 
him why he had boiled eggs for dinner, -f* in- 
stead of poached eggs; as he was very well 
aware that nothing was done in his houj^e 
without a reason. 

** My reason," said the Hermit, '* was, to 
have a. text for your catechism of to-day ; and 
if you will take a small egg, I will take a large 
one, or vice versd.^' 

The Traveller complied. Both the small 
and the large egg were equally well boiled ; 
and the moment the shells were removed, both 
disclosed the milk, which is the criterion of a 
well-dressed egg. 

When dinner was concluded, the Hermit 

• See Appendix No. XXXIII. 
t See Appendix No. XXXIV. 



1/2 The First Principles 

asked the Traveller if he had any fault to find 
with his c^g ? 

He said it could not be better. " And how 
very odd it is," said he, " that an egg is so 
seldom boiled properly/* 

" How would you instruct your cook to 
boil an egg ? " said the Hermit. 

" I can reply to that without difBculty," said 
his friend, ** Three minutes, by the watch, an 
egg must boih If it is a very small egg, like 
the Bantam^s, it must not boil more than two 
minutes, or two and a half." 

'* You must have a priceless cook," said the 
Hermit, " if you can find one that, for two days 
running, would stand with a watch in her hand 
over the saucepan of eggs, or would be able to 
keep one eye on the clock, and the other on 
the saucepan — to keep exactly to three minutes, 
or exactly two and a half; besides which, eggs 
vary as much as the human countenance. It 
is not merely a big egg, and a little egg, but 
there are all the medium sizes ; and the weight 
and size of eggs differ as much as the hens that 
lay them, and there is not one of these Welsh 



of Good Cookery. 173 

widows that would not tell me, by the look of 
my eggs, to which hen each egg belongs. Con- 
sequently, if the Bantam takes two minutes, 
and the Dorking takes three minutes, there 
must be other subdivisions for Cochin China, 
and Hamburghs, and Spanish fowls, &c." 

The Traveller could not deny the justice of 
this remark, but confessed that he could not 
suggest any remedy for the difficulty. 

The Hermit said there was a verj' simple 
one, which he would teach him ; which was, 
always to put eggs into cold water, instead of 
boiling water, and the moment the water boiled 
each egg was done, whether large or small. 

The Traveller could not understand the 
reason of this; and the Hermit, after an in- 
nocent joke upon his want of science, said that 
the reason was very clear to his practical per- 
ception — viz. that a gradual advance to the 
boiling point was the degree of heat required 
to cook an egg in perfection, and that needed 
neither clock nor watch. The cook had only to 
let the fire and water do their work, which 
would be completed at different periods of 



174 ^^^ First Principles 



time, according to the thickness and quantity 
of shells which had to be heated through. 

The Traveller, after this simple explanation, 
particularly inquired whether the gridiron used 
by the Welsh widows was on the common 
construction, which he had often seen in iron- 
mongers' shops — viz. iron bars in a square 
frame, with a handle, and a little iron trough 
at one end. 

The Hermit showed him a gridiron, which 
was exactly what he described, and said he was 
very much surprised to hear that such a grid- 
iron was still in common use ; for that, although 
he did not boast of any mechanical talent, he 
considered that it was a very awkward utensil 
for its required purpose, and great practice and 
much dexterity were necessary to enable a cook 
to dress mutton chops as well as they had 
been done that day, from the difficulty, not 
only of saving the gravy, but of preventing its 
being spilt upon the hot stove, and producing 
those intolerable fumes which equally offended 
and adected the nose and the palate. 

The Traveller said that these remarks brou?h^ 



of Good Cookery . \^^ 



to his recollection the gridiron that he had seen 
in the kitchen of the great hotel at Turin, 
when on his travels through Italy, the con- 
struction of which had only then struck him 
as being unusual, but which, he was now con- 
vinced, was very superior to the gridiron he 
saw before him for the purpose of preserving 
the gravy of broiled meat; and the Hermit 
regretted that he had not introduced the im- 
provement into Great Britain. 

The apple dumplings * were the next topic 
of inquiry; and the Traveller was informed 
that the paste was made of flour and clarified 
marrow, baked lightly, glazed with white of 
egg and white sugar, and served with or with- 
out cream, according to taste. 

The next day the salmon was to be eaten ; 
and it was found, when cold, to be firmly fixed 
to the strainer by its own jelly. The fish-kettle 
was put on, with the water in which the fish 
had been scalded, and over which it had cooled, 
and in which it was again placed on the strainer ; 
and when again heated through, it was com- 

M ■ ■ ■ ■ ■■ ■ ■ I ■■■ I ■ M ■ WW"^ 

* See Appendix No. XXXV. 



176 T^ke First Principles 

pletely done, and of course, by this slow pro- 
cess and double infusion in its own liquor, it 
had a much greater richness of flavour than it 
otherwise could have retained. 

The sauce served with it, in the opinion of 
the Traveller, surpassed anything of the kind 
that he had ever tasted, and he earnestly re- 
quested the recipe; which the Hermit told 
him he really could not give, as it had been 
hereditary and traditional in his family, and 
handed from mother to daughter; but that his 
mother had taught the grandmother of Gwen- 
llian, whose mother had taught her, by his 
particular desire ; and that it was a recipe that 
had never been clearly written down, but that, 
if, when his "friend was further advanced in 
ordinary knowledge, he chose to learn to make 
it himself y he should have every opportunity of 
doing so, and then he might write it down ; * 
but that it was one of the few things practised 
in his primitive establishment which was ex- 
tremely complicated, and very difficult to make 
twice alike, and which depended, more than 

• See Appendix No. XXXVI. 



E9BV 



oj Good Cookery. 177 

anything else which he had ever met with, 
upon acute taste. He said that Gwenllian 
could not herself ever succeed in having it 
exactly right as to proportions of flavour, unless 
she prepared it the day before, when he always 
tasted it himself before it was finished oflf". 

The Traveller asked if it would suit every 
sort of fish ? 

The Hermit said that it did so, and that one 
reason for its being so relishing, and yet so 
mild, was that there was no addition or admix- 
ture of any sort of ready-made bought sauce, 
which he considered very unnecessary, where 
such an accompaniment to fish could be made 
in the house. 

After this, the Hermit made several remarks 
upon meagre cookery, such as he recollected it 
when in the world. 

The Traveller said that it was not the least 
improved, and that he did not at all wonder 
that Roman Catholics were firequently troubled 
by weak digestions. 

The Hermit said, that he was an old- 
fashioned Protestant, and there were only two 

N 



178 The First Principles 



days in the year that, unless unable to eat meat, 
he entirely abstained from it — Ash Wednes- 
day and Good Friday; but that he firmly 
believed, at least half thq gastric disorders and 
weak digestions, from which no doubt Catholics 
suffered to a great extent, was more frequently 
owing to the dreadful concoctions of made 
dishes with butter, eggs, and ollapodridas of ve- 
getables, stewed in butter, and superstructures of 
sweetmeats, and luscious confectionery, than it 
was from excess of abstinence from meat ; that 
there was no doubt that many Catholics, with 
good motives, though weak understandings, 
seriously injured their health by fasting, and 
might thereby lay the foundation for many 
diseases, just as there werp many Protestants, 
who, under the idea that the more they could 
swallow the better they must be, gorged them- 
selves with meat to such a degree, that they 
could not digest it, and instead of nourishment 
it became poison, by overtasking and overload- 
ing the digestion ; but that he really wished, for 
the sake of humanity, that a rational system of 
meagre cooking could be taught, for the benefit 



of Good Cookery. 1 79 



of Roman Catholics, on those days when they 
consider it right, when in perfect health, to 
abstain from meat. He said that he had most 
vivid recollections of the dishes that he had seen 
served upon those occasions, half a century 
ago, and begged the Traveller would tell him 
what he had beheld in these days, that he 
might judge whether it was better or worse.* 

The Traveller gave him the following bill 
of fare, of a meagre dinner of which he had 
partaken — meagre soup, made with butter and 
flour, yolks of eggs, and cream, with chopped 
herbs. 

The Hermit here interrupted, and said he 
thought nothing further would be required for 
the rest of the day ! 

The Traveller proceeded — salt fish, fried, 
and fresh fish, swimming in butter, and with 
melted butter mixed with anchovy sauce over 
it, buttered eggs, an omelet of eggs and herbs, 
a mould of jaune mange, jam tart, and cream 
cheese, with a variety of wines, which are fre- 
quently drunk on these occasions, to make the 

* See Traveller's Note Book. 
N 2 



1 8o The First Principles 



food more palatable, and which of course are 
an additional trial to the digestive organs. 

The Hermit said that he supposed the science 
of meagre cookery in Great Britain was much 
as he remembered it, but that in former days 
they had fewer dishes, though equally unwhole- 
some compounds. 

The Traveller inquired what he would re- 
commend for an abstinence or fasting dinner. 

**I should advise," said the Hermit, *'a 
plain poached egg, on toast, without butter; a 
vegetable soup,* made of the jelly of bare boiled 
bones, without eggs, and with new milk instead 
of cream, and no butter. Meagre soups can 
be made with well-chopped and fried vege- 
tables, provided they are fried in delicate top 
fat (which is allowed) instead of butter, so as 
to be both palatable and wholesome. A plain 
fruit tart, with skim milk, and a plain rice 
pudding, needs no contrivance ; and those who 
cannot eat simple stewed fruit alone, will 
find that it agrees perfectly well if mixed with 
skim or new milk and eaten with bread ; but 

* See Appendix No. XXXVII, 



of Good Cookery. 1 8 1 

* 

plain boiled or fried fish, with anchovy sauce, 
the melted butter part of which is prepared in 
the same way as the parsley sauce melted 
butter, is simple and innocent, for those who 
can take any sauce at all, but there are many 
persons with whom melted butter disagrees, 
however carefully prepared, and they should 
avoid it, and eat their fish with only a little salt 
or a little vinegar. Plain bread and cheese, 
bread and cold fresh butter where it agrees. 
Water from the spring, with hard biscuits, 
would make a far better dinner alone, and be 
more conducive to health, than any of the 
compound meagre dishes which you have 
n^entioned, which are positively deleterious; 
and it surpasses my comprehension how any- 
body can partake of any one of the compounds 
of eggs and butter that you have named, far 
less of three or four of them. The two great 
obstacles to the preservation of a good digestion 
are too long intervals between meals, and then 
a too plentiful or an unwholesome meal ; or a 
continued system of repletion by what is called 
• nourishing diet, which, when taken in excess. 



1 82 T^he First Principles 

either drives the patient into an atrophy, from 
his inability to extract nourishment from the 
large quantities he takes, or produces that most 
distressing disorder — a * Wolf in the stomach ' 
— a constant craving* And the effect of the 
ill-usage to virhich the poor stomach is sub- 
jected by its ovsmers may be described by a 
parody on the * Curse of Kehama : ' — 

" With a pain in thy heart, 

And a fire in thy brain, 
While sleep shall desert thee 

And visit thee never, 
And the Curse of Repletion 

Be on thee for ever." 

The Hermit then said that he wished the 
Traveller would give him an idea of the 
opposite side of the question ; and having heard 
of a meagre dinner, he would be much gratified 
by knowing soniething about the diet of a 
person in his rank in life, in the habit of 
dining out in London, or pursuing a similar 
system in. the country. 

The Traveller said that there were, unfor- 
tunately, so many country houses in England 
where the excessive luxury of London tables 



of Good Cookery. 183 

was maintained^ that it would be just the same 
thing if he took an example from one of those 
establishments, which would give a better idea 
of the repletion system than it was in his power 
to afford from London, where he never went 
out to breakfast : but that in the country he 
would give him an account of diet, which 
would include the whole day from morning 
till night ; and he would begin with the ladies, 
as they had different habits^ in some respects, 
from the gentlemen. At the same time, he 
begged the Hermit to believe that his report, 
though not the least exaggerated, was not 
universal^ and that there were exceptions to 
the following routine : — At half-past seven, or, 
at the latest, eight o'clock in the morning, tea 
and bread-and-butter was taken to the lady in 
bed^ who, at ten o'clock, breakfasts a second 
time, downstairs, on coffee, followed by tea and 
cold meat, in addition to, or instead of, an egg, 
honey mixed with butter, or raspberry jam, 
and hot rolls, or dry toast, and sometimes 
buttered cake; then, at one or two o'clock, 
they eat roast mutton or chicken, often pre- 



1 84 'fhe First Princtpks 

ceded by a made dish, and succeeded by con- 
fectionery of various sorts, accompanied by 
wine. At four or five o'clock, tea, bread-and- 
butter, cake, &c. ; at seven or eight o'clock^ 
fish, soup, made dishes of all sorts, followed 
by roast, or boiled, or stewed meat, followed 
again by game and poultry, and all kinds of con- 
fectionery^ and lobster salads, with varieties of 
wine, cheese, butter, and dessert. At half-past 
nine o'clock, tea and cofifee, biscuits^ and cakes. 

By this time the Hermit groaned aloud, and 
begged that he would go no further, if he had 
anything to say, for that (as it was) he feared 
an attack of nightmare ! and with arithmetical 
precision the venerable man counted on his 
fingers the number of hours and the number of 
meals, exclaiming that six meals in little more 
than thirteen hours would only leave an average 
of two hours between each meal for the pro- 
cess of digestion, and that he hoped that the 
gentlemen did not follow the same system. 

The Traveller said he thought their system 
was quite as bad, though not exactly the 
same. He did not believe they breakfasted in 



of Good Cookery. 1 85 



bed, at leasts not many of them, or breakfasted 
at all before they appeared downstairs ; but that, 
not content with plain cold meat, or no meat at 
all, they frequently ate a complete hot dinner 
of dressed meat the first thing in the morning. 
They also often followed this up with honey 
and butter, and sweetmeats. That the greater 
number professed not to eat ** luncheon^^ * 
although they all declared that it was the 
" natural and proper time of day to eat,** and 
that they had often an appetite at that time, 
but that they^^ar of eating less at seven or eight 
o'clock, induced them to refrain from food 
when they required it. Gentlemen, the Tra- 
veller added, did not generally take tea at five 
o'clock, but they were naturally often glad of 
it after fasting from half-past nine or ten 
o'clock ; and if they had not had anything, 
they were ravenous by seven or eight o'clock, 
and consequently ate a great deal more at one 
time than was necessary for their sustenance, 
or good for their health, and laid the founda- 
tion for gout and dyspepsia, and all sorts of 
future miseries, to say nothing of corpulence or 

♦ See Traveller's Note Book. 



1 



1 86 The First Principles 

emaciation from defective digestion ; and that 
they generally took tea and coffee afterwards, 
/ which was far better avoided when not required 
'^ as a meal in itself, but superadded after an over- 
plentiful dinner, or, more properly, supper. 

The Hermit inquired what sort of health 
those persons had who lived in this way sys- 
tematically ? 

The Traveller replied that it was very rare 
to meet with an instance of a gentleman past 
fifty, and many much earlier, who had not 
some ailment connected with the digestive 
organs, and others who at that age were not 
martyrs to gout, or rheumatism, or continual 
invalids in some way or other, scarcely any 
retaining the clear complexion and colour of 
health which is so frequently seen even in very 
advanced life in temperate specimens of the 
rural population, especially mountaineers, who 
have spent their lives labouring in the open 
air, who have only three meals a day at regular 
intervals, and never eat more than they really 
require. But that, unless really alarmed by 
serious illness, the men in the higher classes 



of Good Cookery. 1 87 

would go on without observing that, little by 
little, they become less and less able to exert 
long before advanced years rendered repose ab- 
solutely necessary. " In fact/* said the Traveller, 
" there is no doubt that a large portion of man- 
kind in these islands are premature invalids from 
over-feeding and unwholesome cookery from 
infancy to age, and a still larger proportion are 
in want of food with which they might be 
amply supplied if the tons of nourishment were 
bestowed upon them which is wasted from 
ignorance and carelessness, and by the want of 
proper domestic management in the culinary 
department, and which would be to spare, in 
additionally enormous quantities, if those who 
now take so much more than is good for them, 
only ate what nature requires/' * 

Although the Traveller willingly gave the 
Hermit the above information, and was 
mightily diverted by the horror and indignation 
he excited, yet he now thought it time to let 
his host have a turn in answering questions, by 
which he hoped he might, in his turn, gain a 
little advantage over him. 

* See Traveller's Note Book. 



1 88 The First Principles 

" May I ask my venerable friend," said he, 
** whether the aristocracy of the last century 
did not indulge in most unwholesome dishes ? 
I have some idea that, in looking over old 
cookery books, the quantities and the com- 
pounds struck me as being particularly un- 
wholesome." 

The Hermit replied that he was correct in 
his impressions; that in the last century they 
certainly made use of excessive quantities of 
eggs, butter, and cream ; ** but," added he, "the 
bad effects of this error were more than coun- 
terbalanced by the superior simplicity of their 
cvery-day fare. Their roasting was admirable : 
a joint badly roasted reflected discredit on the 
mistress of the house, as, although in the higher 
ranks of life they did not, as in Germany, re- 
main in the kitchen to see the meat roasted 
themselves, servants were then judged by 
their masters ; and although accidents might 
occur, yet habitual bad cooking, as connected 
with roasting and boiling, which were then 
the principal part of every country gentleman^s 
dinner, would have reflected disgrace or dis- 



of Good Cookery. 189 

credit on the mistress of the family. Baking, 
also, was well understood. There was no 
gentleman's house where good bread and cakes 
were not the especial pride of the ladies of 
the family : thus two of the principal mate- 
rials for sustenance were well prepared, and 
it was only on gala days that the extrava- 
gant compounds took place, of which butter 
and eggs were the principal ingredients ; and 
whatever bad effects might have resulted to those 
who ate them, they were very light as well as 
temporary in comparison with the destruction 
of health consequent upon a daily round of made 
dishes, which are now only the precursors of 
what formerly used to be the dinner/* 

The Traveller remarked that he believed 
our ancestors had much better health, on the 
whole, than is now enjoyed ; that they did not 
often require sofas to recline upon, were much 
upon their legs, and yet spine complaints were 
seldom heard of; ** and," added he, with a ma- 
licious smile, " we all know, my good friend, 
that gentlemen of the last generation were not 
remarkable for sobriety, but dyspepsia is not 



190 T^he First Principles 

often alluded to in old memoirs, and yet one 
might suppose that it was well deserved." 

The Traveller was, however,^ disappointed 
at not having succeeded in making -the Hermit 
angry. He was too rational, and really top 
anxious to discover cause and effect, to enter 
upon an angry argument, or to try to make 
out that the incontrovertible fact of drinking 
mentioned was limited to the minority. 

The Hermit, therefore, only mildly replied 
that he did not think it difficult to account for 
the superior health and strength of the grand- 
fathers and great-grandfathers of the present 
generation ; that they kept very early hours, and 
morning and night were a great deal in the 
open air; they had a much larger proportion 
of wholesome food, better cooked, and a minor 
proportion of unwholesome food ; and they 
had three meals a day, instead of six or seven. 
And although he admitted that the habits of 
the country gentlemen of that day, irt taking 
wine to excess, was most degrading and re- 
prehensible, yet here again there was not that 
mixture of all sorts of fermented liquors which 



of Good Cookery. 191 



were now the fashion ; and though not taken in 
a degree to obscure the intellect, they were yet 
taken sufficiently, and in. such variety as, to 
interfere constantly with the digestive powers. 
That our ancestors also took very considerable 
exercise, which, with the early hours that they 
kept, counteracted, in a great measure, the ill- 
effects of occasional excess; but that, in the 
present day, according to the Traveller's ac- 
count, " the candle was lighted at both ends ; " 
and it was, therefore, not wonderful if health 
was consumed in half the time. 

The Hermit said he could produce other 
reasons, drawn from the Traveller's own com- 
munications with respect to nursery manage- 
ment in the present age — as he had favoured 
,him with an account of the system pursued in 
the families of some of his friends, — which 
was so very different from his own experience 
more than eighty years ago, of which he had a 
perfect recollection, as well as his good mother's 
and grandmother's conversation on the subject ; 
so that he did not at all wonder that, in the 
course of two or three generations, there was a 



192 The First Principles 



gradual and regular decline of the strength of 
constitution. 

" To what do you particularly allude ? '* said 
the Traveller ; " for I have related many things 
to you/* 

" I allude," said the Hermit, " to the de- 
scription you gave me of the manner in which 
your nephews and nieces were reared, which 
certainly was very different to the system pur- 
sued with my brothers and sister/' 

" Had you any brothers and. a sister?" said 
the Traveller. ** I always fancied you were 
the only one of your race." 

" I had one sister and two brothers," re- 
joined the Hermit, ** all younger than myself; 
but, unhappily, my two brothers were killed in 
the wars, about fifty years ago, and my sister 
was drowned, the ship being lost in a storm at 
sea, returning from Ireland, after the death of 
her husband." 

** Which part of the system did you consider 
so very different, which I related to you," said 
the Traveller, " from the customs of the last 
century ? " 



of Good Cookery. 193 



" The especial points," said the Hermit, 
** which I consider would have an increasingly 
bad influence on the health of each succeeding 
generation, are as follows: — ist. According to 
your account, children are now (though sup- 
posed to be under the eye and direction of their 
mother) in reality under the entire management 
of the nurse, they live the greater part of their 
time in the nursery, are taken out, at stated 
hours, for formal walks, but know not what it 
is to wet their feet, the girls being always in 
half-boots and hoops,* which, in a high wind, 
must make them as awkward and uncomfort- 
able as a hen in a storm. We, on the con- 
trary, though probably less expensively, were 
less awkwardly attired, and, deprived of many 
of the luxuries you describe, were nursed in 
cottages, which, of course, were selected as 
belonging to the most cleanly and respectable 



* Since these pages were written those dangerous and absurd 
inventions have nearly disappeared in good society, but are 
still to be seen on children ; and trains have increased, and are 
perilous to those who wear them and those who tread upon 
them. 



1 94 The First Principles 

tenants on the estate ; in fact^ in those days, a 
great part of the cottage or farm tenants were 
old servants. In these cottages we had air and 
exercise, and freedom of limb ; and although 
our parents visited us constantly, and we were 
also brought to the house to see them, we re- 
mained till three or four years old, without a 
thought or a care beyond the interests of the 
poultry and other animals that surrounded us, 
being constantly in the open air, and clad ac- 
cordingly ; by which means a store of health 
was laid in, instead of a store of ailments, long 
before we knew there was such a thing in the 
world as an alphabet. And from the time we 
returned to be inmates of the paternal roof, our 
brains were not oppressed by learning, and by 
very slow degrees we were taught to read, 
write, and spell, while the habits, acquired in 
the cottage, of activity and out-door amuse- 
ment continued ; the great change in our 
existence being the necessity for learning draw- 
ing-room behaviour, and being in full-dress on 
certain occasions, when we were under very 
strict drill. But how is it possible for children 



of Good Cookery. 195 

to be generally healthy, and enjoy vigour in 
youth, health in middle life, or retain any 
energy in old age, if their first years are spent 
chiefly in a nursery upstairs, and their exercise 
taken in half-boots and hoops ? " 

**What is your objection to boots?" said 
the Traveller. ** Hoops, and all their kindred 
crinolines, are universally condemned, though 
still continued, but I thought boots for females 
were considered very useful for strengthening 
the ancles/* 

" What is the proof of strong ancles ? '' said 
the Hermit. 

The Traveller perfectly well knew what to 
answer, but he would not commit himself, 
that he might not hasten his own defeat. 

The Hermit was therefore obliged to reply 
for himself. "Walking,** said he, "is the use 
for which feet and ancles were made. Are 
the ladies of the present day particularly good 
walkers ? " 

"Particularly the reverse," said the Tra- 
veller. "There are, of course, exceptions 
everywhere, but, on the whole, the women 

o 2 



1 96 The First Principles 

of the present day in Great Britain walk re- 
markably ill, which I have attributed to their 
dreadful iron hoops, or cages, or crinolines, 
which are now so common, that they have 
positively become a public offence, and ought, 
in my opinion, to be put down by Act of 
Parliament as nuisances. Deaths are con- 
stantly occurring by fire, as well as broken 
legs, from these most senseless articles of 
apparel, and there is no doubt that the art of 
walking (if art it be), viz. the power of action 
and movement by carrying the body onward 
with convenience and comfort to the individual, 
and with grace to the beholder, is at present 
unknown^ except in some remote, happy, and 
secluded corners, where there are peasants who 
still carry baskets and pails on their heads, and 
where this most miserable mania has not been 
adopted ; but I do not myself see any objection 
to children being always in half-boots, which 
are said to strengthen the ancles/' 

" Many things are * said^* " replied the 
Hermit, "which a little sensible investigation 
would prove to be unfounded. Only for one 



of Good Cookery, 1 97 

moment, I pray you, use your own understandings 
and you will see that it is impossible that boots 
can strengthen the ancles, although they may 
supply the place of bone and muscle, when it 
is wanting, owing to some natural defect, or 
unfortunate accident What would any rational 
person say to a proposal to enclose the arms 
of children or young people in a tightly-laced 
sleeve of hard materials, whenever the hands 
and arms were required to be in full action ? 
Exactly the same principle applies to the 
ancles, which, to be strong and capable of their 
work, ought not to be bound up by ligatures, 
which prevent the supple actions of the muscles, 
retard circulation, and often occasion habitual 
cold feet; they also render the footing un- 
steady, as the ancle is prevented from bearing 
its proper share in the movement of the body, 
and you may depend upon it that the bad 
walking you complain of as being so general, 
commenced before the cages — hoops — and 
crinolines, which you say are of compara- 
tively recent date, and the ladies of the last 
century were remarkable for their graceful 



198 T^he First Principles 



carriage in walking, and their firm and elastic 
step." 

" I wish one of them would r^-appear," said 
the Traveller, " to show the present generation 
what good walking means ; for though I well 
know what it is, I could not describe it in 
words." 

** My grandmother's definition of good 
walking," said the Hermit, *' and what my 
sister was always told to aim at, was, that her 
body should be erect, and move forward like 
a column on wheels, the feet carrying it on 
in such a manner, that those who met or 
followed should not be able to perceive the 
slightest approach to that waddling gait, which 
is so exactly exemplified by the duck.*' 

" It appears to me," said the Traveller, •* that 
the ducks are the models of the female walkers 
of the present day, or vice versa, excepting that 
the good duck would be much maligned if she 
were accused of taking pattern by them, as, 
however waddling her gait, she never soils her 
feathers by sweeping the ground ; while the 
majority of females of the nineteenth century 



of Good Cookery. 199 

sweep up the dirty ground behind, while they 
brush the hedges on both sides at once : but 
let me ask you, whether your grandmother did 
not wear a hoop ? " 

" She certainly did/* said the Herfnit, 
"when in full dress, but her active morning 
avocations were never incommoded by that 
inconvenient attire ; and it was the rule of her 
house that no female servant should ever wear 
a hoop, which was considered a dress of cere- 
mony, inconvenient and objectionable, very pro- 
perly confined to a certain class, and only worn 
by them at certain times and seasons of formal 
appearance. It must also be remembered, that 
petticoats were never in those days lower than 
the ancle, and consequently neither endangered 
the safety of the wearer, nor entangled the legs 
of others." * 

During the following evening ramble, the 
Traveller expressed his surprise at seeing a 
woman milking the Hermit's Welsh ewes, 

* And when not borne in ceremony by pages on court fes- 
tivals, were looped up, or drawn through the pocket-hole, or 
carried over the anru 



200 The First Principles 

which were all black. He asked whether all 
Welsh sheep were black, and was informed 
that there were many more white than black, 
but that the mutton of each was equally fine, 
and the milk equally good for cheese, though, 
in consequence of the non-encouragement, or 
rather the discouragement, of the old native 
Welsh cloth> and of hand-knit stockings, black 
wool was now sold in some places at a lower 
price than white ; whereas, formerly black (very 
justly) always bore a higher price, in conse- 
quence of its superior value for stockings, and 
home-spun cloth, which, requiring no dye, 
was much more durable, and the tint of which 
could be made less intense, where desired, by 
mixing white wool with it. 

The Traveller had never heard of milking 
sheep in England, and when the Hermit had 
said, soon after his arrival, that the excellent 
cheese they had at dinner owed its superiority 
to a considerable proportion of sheep's milk 
mixed with that of the cows, his guest did not 
believe him, and really thought, as he after- 
wards related, he was playing the same trick 



of Good Cookery . 201 

that he recollected had been played by a mis- 
chievous young Irish lady, who persuaded an 
old woman that in Ireland they milked Cats, 
which, she being credulous enough to believe, 
was laughed at to the end of her life. 

On the present occasion, the Hermit was too 
well bred to comment on his guest's evidently 
continued incredulity, with respect to the pur- 
pose to which his sheep's milk was applied, 
although he saw a fine pail of milk carried 
away, the produce of the beautiful flock of ewes. 

It appeared to the Traveller very strange, 
that if the cheese was so superior, a practice 
so easy of imitation should not be generally 
known and adopted in England. They after- 
wards visited a Welsh weaver, where the wool 
of the Hermit's flock was woven. This Welsh 
mountain weaver had a water-wheel to work 
his spinning-jenny and wove with his loom : 
the manufacture is almost indestructible, and 
although not of a romantic turn of mind, the 
Traveller could not help saying to himself, he 
hoped the evils of large manufactories might 
long be averted from that happy region, where 



202 T^he First Principles 

a troop of thriving merry children repaired to 
the weaver's, from the neighbouring cottages, 
to pick wool in a healthy atmosphere, for their 
daily wages ; and, after an agreeable walk, 
returned in the evening, through pure air and 
fine scenery, as merry and happy as they went. 

They afterwards visited the Hermit's pigs. 
The Traveller was again much surprised, to find 
them so thin ; not that they appeared at all 
starved, but had thin figures, such as are occa- 
sionally seen in pigs belonging to cottagers that 
range the high roads. A conversation ensued 
on this subject. The Hermit's ideas were so 
completely contrary to those of the present day, 
that his guest did not subscribe to them, and 
they returned home mutually dissatisfied with 
each other. 

The Hermit had a very large yard for his 
pigs to range in, and never allowed them to be 
shut up in a sty, or regularly fatted for killing ; 
and he actually shuddered when the Traveller 
described the pigs, and other animals, that he 
had seen blind from fat, which are common at 
agricultural shows, and said, that to give prizes 



of Good Cookery. 203 

for excess of fat, and to produce blindness in 
pigs, by cramming, and privation of air and exer- 
cise, was, in his opinion, a sign of the decline of 
the human intellect, and a proof of barbarism 
or insanity, rather than of intelligence. 

Although indignant at the Hermit's obstinate 
refusal to admit that the excessive feeding of 
animals w^as a wonderful art, and that the cul- 
tivation of any art must prove the progress of 
the human mind ; the Traveller, at length, 
however, admitted that it was to be regretted 
that agricultural shows afforded every en- 
couragement to cramming, and consequently 
those who could afford to cram obtained the 
greater number of premiums. 

The Hermit maintained that the best breeds 
for symmetry ought to be encouraged, without 
any artificial fatting^ and prizes given to preserve 
or restore all those races which are specially 
and variously adapted for different localities, 
different climates, and, consequently, different 
pastures. 

The Traveller, at length, admitted to his 
host, that the flesh of many prize animals was 



204 T^he First Principles 

of a very inferior quality, and actually yellow, 
from the quantity of oil-cake used to produce 
unnatural and uawholesome obesity ; * and that, 
although real Welsh mutton was admitted by 
all epicures, and by medical men, to be the 
very finest for flavour, and the lightest of 
digestion of all the breeds of sheep known in 
Great Britain, very few prizes were ever given 
for the encouragement and preservation of so 
invaluable a breed of animals ; and that even 
at Welsh inns, during his last absence, he had 
been sickened by large coarse mutton, though 
within a mile of mountains, where the best 
Welsh sheep were to be had, and could 
alone live and flourish. He added that, at 
private houses, the same complaint may often 
be made in Wales as well as in London, from 
whence the rich, nevertheless, send abroad for 
all sorts of foreign luxuries for their table, on 
which the best Welsh mutton is seldom or 
ever found. 

These facts furnished the Hermit with an 
additional argument to prove that the Agricul- 

* See Traveller's Note Book. 



of Good Cookery. 205 



-'V 



tural Shows, which his guest maintained were 
one of the greatest improvements in the last 
half-century, were, by his own account, not 
conducted altogether on principles to corro- 
borate the correctness of his allegation; and 
that some of the best native breeds in Great 
Britain, both cattle and sheep, were suffered to 
exist without notice or encouragement, and in 
some instances to become almost extinct from 
the same cause.* 

The Hermit's dairy was visited, and he took 

• great pride in showing some of the best breeds 

of cows in the Principality.-f- There were the 

♦ N.B. These pages were written before the outburst of the 
Cattle Plague. 

t The Pembroke, or Castle-Martin breed, is admirable for 
beef, and they are excellent milkers. The old Pembroke 
breed, white, with black ears, and remarkably handsome, are 
becoming extinct, and those that remain are wild from want of 
care. 

The Glamorgan cows are magnificent animals, — ^black, with 
- a white strpie down the tail ; excellent milkers. 

The Caermarthen cattle are black, very much like the Pem- 
broke ; also good for milk. 

In the counties of Brecon and Radnor, the landowners 
have generally introduced Herefords and Shorthorns, which are 
inferior, in many respects, to various breeds of the Welsh 



2o6 T^he First Principles 

small and beautifully formed natives of "Mona;" 
the larger but very valuable cow of Glamorgan 
(which is fast becoming extinct) ; the black 
cows of Pembroke and Caermarthen, very dif- 
ferent in form, but each having qualities worthy 
of note. 

They then visited the Hermit's arable land, 
of which he cultivated the quantity necessary 
to grow roots to support his cattle, his flocks, 
and his pigs through the winter, and corn 
enough for his two mountain ponies, his 
poultry, and all his wild birds, which he 
described as a beautiful sight in hard weather, 
when rooks, and wood pigeons, and quantities 
of small birds came with confidence to receive 



cattle. Merioneth has a small breed which, if well kept, 
would prove valuable. 

In North Wales the Mona breed (Isle of Anglesea) is the 
best, and is equal, if not superior, by various combined excel- 
lences, to the larger breeds in Wales, and, like other Welsh 
cattle, are very hardy. It is remarkable for its small size, with 
great symmetry, mild temper, large supply of rich milk, and 
ability to feed and do well on short pasture, and also to fat 
with the greatest ease, and for beef it cannot be surpassed 

Brittany cows are also excellent, and thrive as well in Wales 
as their British kinsmen who are natives of the Principality. 



of Good Cookery. 207 

their expected meal, and all fed together, and 
repaid him, in summer, by their songs and their 
destruction of insects. 

The Traveller was surprised to see oxen 
ploughing, which used to be a very common 
sight, but is now rare. The Hermit said, that 
he considered oxen by far the best animals for 
the tillage of land — that when an ox was old 
it could be killed for food, not so a horse — that 
their keep was much less expensive, their price 
much lower, consequently their loss by illness 
or accident less serious. 

An argument followed from the Traveller, 
who spoke with ridicule of cows and heifers 
drawing light carts, in various parts of Germany, 
and often bringing the weekly produce of small 
farmers to market. His host took the part of 
the Germans vehemently on this point — said 
there was much practical good sense in the 
custom, and that he should not be afraid to 
lay a wager, that a cow, trained from a heifer 
to draught, — not tasked beyond her strength, 
but only used to go a moderate distance, with 
a very light vehicle, walking her natural pace, 



2o8 T^he First Principles 



^-^ 



and having food taken with her, could perform 
light tasks for the benefit of her owner, 
without the slightest detriment to herself, or 
diminution of her milk, and provided she was not 
worked when " in milking " above three hours 
in the day, which he contended would be an 
immense boon to a poor and industrious man,, 
who could not afford to keep both a horse and 
a cow. The Hermit was much interested with 
the account given by his guest of the manner 
in which the German cattle in certain districts 
drew by the head instead of the neck^ as he 
said^ it had often distressed him to watch his own 
oxen working in their yokes, as it was evident 
that the strength of an ox was in its head^ and 
that the neck of an ox was ill-adapted for 
draught ; which remark caused the Traveller, 
for the Jirst time, to wonder why that mode of 
harnessing oxen was not adopted in England ? 
and why the practice of ploughing with oxen 
was so much disused, as the advantages for 
those who had limited means to provide 
animals for draught were so very evident. 
The Traveller could not, however, throw any 



of Good Cookery. 209 

light upon this subject, but remained convinced 
that agricultural associations must act solely from 
experience of practical success, though he could 
not give any reason for this belief. His host 
continued of his previous opinion, and repeated 
that the system of education of the present age 
must be very defective, as there was scarcely a 
topic in v^^hich the facts mentioned by his friend 
did not prove that great evils were incurred, 
and even encouraged, from the want of common 
reflection— in fact, from the want of observa- 
tion, with cultivation of the reasoning powers. 

The Traveller, though very much provoked 
at the pertinacity of his host, and stoutly deny- 
ing the correctness of many of his opinions, yet 
did not confute them, nor could he disprove that 
it was very much the custom to ridicule every* 
thing not understood unless introduced by a 
great name, and as often blindly to extol what 
was not any better understood, and which, in 
some instances, was "oery inferior to what it was 
allowed to supersede, and he fully admitted 
that some of the most valuable breeds of cattle 
and sheep, best suited to the climate mentioned 

p 



210 The First Principles 

by the Hermit^ and to the short but sweet pas- 
tures of many parts of Wales and which 
would also suit various parts of England* are 
wilfully ignored if not entirely unknown in 
agricultural exhibitions . 

The Traveller did not defend the unnatural 
and unwholesome system of fattening cattle for 
shows, involving farmers in great expense, often 
deteriorating the meat by rendering the animals 
diseased, and, in fact, raising a barrier against 
the exhibition of animals in a natural and 
wholesome condition; but he did not like 
to admit that the Scotch aristocracy were the 
only magnates who, as a body^ made it a 
rule to preserve and encourage annually, by a 
number of very liberal prizes, the preservation 
and encouragement of the native breeds of 
Great Britain, (as far as they were especially 
identified with Scotland,) having an Agricul- 
tural Society in which the above national object 
is always especially supported.* 

* The Highland and Agricultural Society of Scotland g^ve 
prizes for the pure breeds of A)n:shire, Galloway, Angus, 
Aberdeen, and Highland cattle, as well as for Highland 
ponies. 



of Good Cookery. 2 1 1 

On a later occasion, the Hermit and his 
guest visited the Hermit's Welsh ponies, which 
were grazing in the shade near a picturesque 
brake, in the centre of a verdant piece of pas- 
ture land, surrounded by a fine hedge, a great 
part of which was composed of hollies, birch, 
and hazels, as well as thorns and beautiful 
bushes of elder, here and there covered with 
fine clusters of cream-coloured flowers. In 
each corner of the field, the Hermit had 
planted sycamores and beech, which produced a 
charming shade, being about forty years old, 
under which his cows were lying dow;i, pro- 
tected from the heat of the sun. There were 
also some other trees of more ancient date, 
oaks^ limes, and horse chestnuts. 

The Traveller was surprised to hear the 
distances these little ponies were in. the habit 
of going, with and for the Hermit, among his 
poor neighbours in the mountains. He said 
they never had any corn except when they took 
a very long journey, and then the quantity was 
small, but they were never restricted in bran. 
They were always turned out when not used, 

P 2 



\' 



212 T^he First Principles 

excepting in the very cold and wet weather, 
when they could not benefit themselves by 
grazing, but they were allowed a comfortable 
shed to run into. 

The Hermit was much shocked at the Tra- 
veller's account of clipping horses, who in vain 
tried to convince him that it was humane, and 
that it tended to prevent their catching cold, 
because they would otherwise have a thick coat 
saturated with perspiration when standing in the 
cold air, but his host only became more indig- 
nant, and said, that whoever clipped a horse, 
could never have studied its natural history ; that 
nature had provided a very fine undergrowth 
of fur, as winter approached, to protect him 
from the inclemency of the cold season, and 
that to clip that coat ofiF, close to the skin, was 
really barbarous. 

In vain the Traveller urged that by depriving 
the horse of his coat, he was much quicker 
dried, when coming home in a great heat, but 
he was unable to refute the Hermit's arguments, 
which were to the effect that those persons 
who choose to keep horses in the highest state 



of Good Cookery. 213 

of artificial condition^ are only the wealthy, to 
whom expense is of no consequence, and who, 
therefore, have certainly no need of clipping ; 
because a horse that is kept up day and night, 
clothed from the end of August, or the begin- 
ning of September, to the following May or 
June, will never have any winter coat to clip, 
as nature has so provided that continual warmth 
brings off the extra hair as fast as it comes on ; 
that, with regard to such horses, there is there- 
fore no question of such an operation, but for 
the animals which are kept in a more natural, 
and therefore more healthy manner, it is much 
more dangerous to cut off their natural winter 
clothes, and leave them exposed to every blast, 
when they are out of doors, than to fear the 
chance of their catching cold in a stable, by the 
negligence or idleness of those who ought to 
rub them down well when they come in hot. 
The Hermit moreover declared that he had 
more pleasure in looking at the soft long hair 
of a healthy horse, in a good winter coat, well 
cleaned, than he should have in contemplating 
the finest and most shining skin of a furless 



214 ^^ First Principles 

hunter or racer, artificially produced in mid- 
winter, and that he would undertake, that if 
statistics were correctly kept, it would be found 
that 2^;7clipped horses had, on an average, nauch 
better health than clipped horses, and were 
much less liable to cold; that^ in his day, 
post-boys, in riding long stages, if violent rain 
came on, which was likely to continue, always 
allowed themselves to be wet through, before 
they put on their great coats, which had the 
effect of a comfortable steam bath : also that 
with horses, if they were in a sweat in the 
under-coat, it was a very long time before it 
reached the upper-coat, and when it did come in 
contact with the air, it formed a sort of thick 
pastey which preserved the warmth underneath, 
and was a great protection against the inward 
chill of cold atmosphere, — ^so that, when a horse 
was brought into a stable in this state, if there 
was no one at hand, ready or willing to rub him 
down as they ought to do, yet, by throwing 
a rug over him, he would be much less likely 
to take a cold, than the poor creature who, 
shorn and divested of his natural covering, all 



of Good Cookery. 2 1 5 

at once, at the very time he most requires it, 
was obliged to work in the piercing wind, or 
the chilling rain^ whether in a sweat or out of 
it, without any protection against the effects of 
the elements.* 

The conversation then turned upon a very 
pretty glade in a hollow in the centre of the 
fields composed of hazels, thorns, and hollies, 
alders and elders, in the midst of which there 
was a spring. 

The Hermit could not forbear asking the 
Traveller if he did not think it was a beautiful 
scene ? 

" I admit,'* said his friend, '* it is beautiful ; 
but the agriculturists of the present day would 
not, I am afraid, admit that it is beautiful." 

"Why not?'* said the Hermit. "Does 
agriculture destroy all taste } and is it incom- 
patible for any man with the eye of an artist, 
or who admires the beauties of nature, to be an 
agriculturist ? " 

" The question was never propounded to me 
before,** said the Traveller. "My experience 

V — " 

• See Traveller's Note Book. 



2 1 6 "The First Principles 

is not very extensive, nor have I studied the 
subject minutely ; but 1 should certainly say 
either that agriculture is an antidote to all per- 
ception of the beauties of nature, or else that 
all those to whom Providence has denied the 
power of perceiving what is beautiful become 
agriculturists, for I have often mourned over 
the unnecessary destruction of wood which 
really causes some of the finest parts of England 
(or, rather, those parts that used to be considered 
the most picturesque) now to appear quite bare, 
burnt up in summer, shelterless in winter, with- 
out a sprig that a passing horseman could gather 
from the hedges to put in the bridle of his steed 
large enough to frighten the flies! without a 
tree, or only one solitary tree in the centre of a 
field, mourning for its companions ; and when- 
ever a glade like that before us existed in all its 
verdant beauty, it has been, to use a common 
expression, ^ grubbed up * by the roots, the 
hazels of the growth of centuries are chopped 
up into fire- wood, the beautiful crab trees, the 
greatest ornament to woodland scenery in 
spring, the flowers of which are also a feast 



of Good Cookery. 217 

for the bees» are undermined by the pickaxes 
employed by remorseless agriculturists^ who 
cannot bear to see anything growing in a field 
in the shape of a tree, bush, or shrub, whether 
it is arable, or whether it is pasture. The 
wearied creatures wander in vain over acres of 
unvaried grass, or still more cheerless furrows 
bounded by miles of so-called hedges, which 
look more like temporary basket-work than the 
natural and varied growth of native trees and 
bushes, which are the natural and legitimate 
charm of the roadsides of the United Kingdom 
wherever they are still to be found." * 

* The hedges at Eastbourne in Sussex are an honourable 
exception to the evils above complained of, as well as the banks 
on which they grow^ which are neither pared away nor under- 
mined, so as not to leave any soil from which they can derive 
sustenance, but are really what banks ought to be, viz., bid- 
tresses on each side of the road, a natural and solid foundation 
of soil and stones, furnishing abundant nourishment for the 
luxuriant growth of the hedges which surmoimt them, and 
which exemplify, in the most undeniable manner, that where 
good and substantial banks are preserved, hedges will flourish^ 
and form a fence, so thick and close that no quadruped can 
make its way through it, whether the wood of which it is 
composed is hawthorn, hazel, beech, or other varieties of indi- 
genous growth ; and those persons to whom the care of those 
highways is consigned^ have not only done credit to them 



2 1 8 T^he First Principles 

The Hermit said he deeply regretted to 
hear of such frightful innovations, which he 
thanked Heaven had not found their way into 
his own happy and secluded comer of the Island 
of Britain. •'* It is melancholy indeed," re- 
sumed the Hermit^ ^^to think that mankind 



selves, and benefited their district by the discreet preservation 
of the hedges, but they deserve the thanks of the visitors, as 
well as the inhabitants of the locality, for the ornament and 
comfort derived by pedestrians and equestrians, for the shelter 
thus afforded fi'om the winter winds and from the summer sun. 
At the same time that the (^servant public in general must 
derive advantage fi'om the practical demonstration of a truth 
which is, unfortunately, so little regarded in many other parts 
of the United Kingdom, where miles and miles are rendered 
shelterless and fiightfiil wastes, fi-om the mistaken notion that 
good roads require the destruction of roadside timber and the 
levelling of hedges, until they are a mere apology for a fence, 
and that air cannot pass between leaves, although there is no 
obstacle to a current overhead, as must always be the case 
when the lateral branches are clipped to admit of the free 
passage of vehicles on the Queen's highway. Such is the case 
at Eastbourne in Sussex, where trees by the roadside and 
hedges properly so caUedy appear to be really valued as they 
deserve^ and where it is impossible to desire better roads. It 
is also worthy of note, that even where walls have there re* 
cently been built along the side of the road, a circuit has been 
made, or a gap has been left, to preserve the beautifiil trees 
which grow in the line, and trees are also carefiilly preserved 
in the streets, and give the town a most picturesque appearance. 



of Good Cookery. 219 

« 

can be so led away by want of reflection as 
to suppose that any sweeping destruction 
of the beautiful and bountiful provisions of 
Providence can possibly be necessary or desir- 
able, and I should much suspect that many 
evils are incurred which are as yet unnoticed, in 
consequence of the strange influence of fashion, 
from the mania for novelty, the prevalence 
of imitation without thought^ with the still 
greater absence of observation on many impor- 
tant things which might be injuriously affected 
by the wholesale devastation which you say is 
now so prevalent I am thankful that no duty 
obliges me to travel and to witness these me- 
lancholy changes in the aspect of other parts of 
Great Britain. To what do you attribute the 
origin of this destructive mania ? " 

** I am sorry to say/* said the Traveller, " as 
I have a great respect for Scotland, and as I am 
proud of a little Scotch blood in my veins, 
that I believe we owe the barren appearances 
I mention to Scotch example, — not that the 
Scotch are to blame, but it is possible that 
the wholesale imitation of the Scotch low-land 



220 The First Principles 

farming has been the cause of this great change 
for the worse in the aspect of some parts of 
England if not of Wales? The Scotch, no 
doubt, are a most painstaking and industrious 
race ; they farm in a manner which suits their 
soil and their climate. It is the nature of some 
parts of their country to be woodless, and they 
have large tracts well suited for corn, where 
wood does not naturally grow, but the English, 
not satisfied with adopting their system of 
agriculture where suitable to the locality, 
have, in the spirit of close imitation, ploughed 
up good pastures and destroyed a great deal of 
valuable wood of native growth, which was, 
without question, the principal charm of land- 
scape scenery," and which he wished the 
Hermit could find agricultural arguments for 
retaining. 

The Hermit begged to be excused from any 
argument on the subject, but he said that, from 
the information given by the Traveller, there 
was little doubt that, sooner or later, the good 
people of the nineteenth century would dis- 
cover that (to quote the old proverb) they had 



of Good Cookery. 22 1 

been " robbing Peter to pay Paul/* ** It does not 
become me,*' said he, " who have not seen the 
frightful disfigurement of which you complain, 
to enter particularly upon the evils which must 
thereby be incurred, but I will, with pleasure, 
tell you the positive benefits which I derive 
from the system you see here, which is not 
only conducive to beauty, but also is productive 
of various advantages. It is very bad economy^ as 
well as cruelty^ not to provide shade for cattle, 
and especially for sheep, in the summer-time, 
and shelter is often as much required in 
heavy summer rains as in autumn's storms ; but 
there is another benefit derived from the pre- 
servation of trees and glades of native growth, 
in pasture as well as arable land, where there 
are streams, as the roots and the fibres of trees 
act as conductors for moisture, and are of 
great service to the contiguous pasture — the 
roots of even one tree will often run a distance 
of incredible extent — the tree not only deriving 
nourishment itself from what it imbibes, but 
conveying a vast amount of superabundant 
moisture, tending to the nourishment of the 



222 T^he First Principles 

herbage far and near. On the same prin- 
ciple, alders and every species of brushwood 
ought to be preserved and encouraged on the 
sides of all rivulets, and, if not of native 
growth, they ought to be planted there — in the 
first place, to act as conduits or feeders to the 
pasture land ; secondly, as a protection to the 
edges of streams, which would otherwise be 
more liable to burst their banks, as well as to 
become slippery and unsightly by the continual 
treading of cattle along their whole length. In 
this locality, wherever there is a glade or a 
wood, there is almost invariably a fine spring ; 
this of itself always creates a stream, and I 
suppose that water is as precious in other parts 
of Great Britain as it is in this, where its value 
was never more felt than in the last summer, 
when the absence of rain would have rendered 
the drought much .more serious but for the 
blessing of our numerous springs, rills, and 
rivulets, many of which, though low, continued 
their valuable supply during the whole period/* 

> 

The Traveller, in answer to subsequent 
questions, said he " scarcely knew whether he 



of Good Cookery. 223 

should be correct in asserting that water nvas 
much valued in England or noty that the pre- 
sent conversation called to his recollection many 
circumstances which were apparently so con- 
tradictory, that if he stated in a court of justice 
that water was * very much valued/ and that 
his cause depended upon the proofe of his 
veracity, facts might be adduced which would 
prove exactly the reverse ; although, on the 
other hand, he would state other facts which 
were equally true, but which certainly went 
far to prove that there was no country in the 
world where water was so little valued, so 
little turned to account, and so constantly made 
away with without end or aim^ 

The Hermit said that he had often thought 
his friend spoke in riddles, and that he had fre- 
quently had great difficulty in comprehending 
his narrations relative to the present time ; but 
that, of all the riddles he had yet heard, the 
present was the most difficult to vuiderstand or 
to reconcile with assertions of the " marvellous 
progress " which had been made in human in- 
telligence in the last fifty years. 



224 7 he First Principles 

The Traveller remarked he had had too 
many discomfitures to venture upon a defence, 
but that he would relate to the Hermit the 
facts which appeared so contradictory, and he 
might then judge for himself. " First of all," 
said he, " to prove how much water is valued, 
London is supplied by water companies,^ and 
every house pays for every drop that it con- 
sumes." The price of water is enormous ; and, 
consequently, he could truly say that water was 
highly valuedy as not only good, but bad water 
was paid for ; but, to judge by the scarcity of 
fountains, or any visible supply of running 
water for the passers-by in the streets, it might 
be supposed that England was a desert, without 
springs or rivers, and that the only supplies of 
water the inhabitants could procure must be 
brought in pipes through the sea from France ! 
So dear, so scarce, and often so bad was that 
element, (generally supplied by Heaven in quan- 
tities commensurate with the wants of all cre- 
ated beings,) that, very recently, philanthropic 
individuals had become painfully aware of the 

* See Traveller's Note Book. 



of Good Cookery . 225 



sufferings of a large part of the population 
of London, and other great towns, from the 
impossibility of obtaining a cup of cold water 
to drink, in the course of transit through the 
streets during the heat and toil of the day, and 
many thousand pounds had been charitably 
subscribed towards fountains in some of the most 
populous parts of London, and that benevolent 
and wealthy persons had recently erected foun- 
tains at their own expense in some other towns ; 
that of course every drop was a boon to men, 
women, and children dying of thirst, and thou- 
sands of whom, without that natural refresh- 
ment, had been, and still vf crt^ forced mto public 
houses, whilst it was admitted, on all sides, that 
the curse of Great Britain was drinking, which 
was, to a great extent, caused as well as perpe- 
tuated by the want of convenient supplies ^of 
good water always at hand; — that the lower 
classes in London hardly knew what good 
water was, and the charitable free fountains, 
though better than nothing, were seldom, if 
ever, of any benefit to the poof cattle and horses, 
which, instead of being able (as on the Conti- 



226 The First Principles 

nent) to drink out of large stone basins from 
running water, to be found in every square and 
the corner of every street, were entirely de- 
pendent on the mercy (or the cruelty) of their 
drivers, who either did not, or could not, supply 
them in buckets from pumps, which were fre- 
quently far apart, and often shut up because the 
water was considered absolutely poisonous. 

The Hermit inquired why those humane 
persons who erected fountains did not also add 
a basin for passing animals ? and the Traveller 
had some difficulty in making him understand 
that the supply of these (so called) fountains 
was, in the majority of instances, only a minute 
stream, the thickness of a quill, under which 
poor little boys might often be seen patiently 
holding a cup to be filled by this little dribbling 
spout, while others were as patiently waiting 
for their turn to obtain a few drops of that 
precious, but slow and scanty supply, although 
large sums are paid by the fountain donors for 
this meagre boon, which could certainly not 
afford any share ibr quadrupeds, unless a stray 
dog sometimes by chance might benefit by a 



of Good Cookery. 227 

few spare drops, and thus be prevented from 
going mad. 

" So far/* said the Traveller, " I have proved 
that water is dearly priced^ if not prized suf- 
ficiently to arouse such an expression of public 
opinion as would compel the supply to be equal 
to the requirements of the population ; but," 
added he, " I will now proceed to give you an 
account which you will have some difficulty in 
believing relates to the same subject. The * great 
progress of agriculture ' has destroyed so many 
springs, that various parts of the kingdom suffer 
seriously for want of water, which formerly 
were well supplied." 

" Destroy springs ! " said the Hermit. ** How 
can human beings destroy springs? Man has 
no more power to forbid water to flow than he 
has to create a spring." 

** I may have used a wrong expression," said 
the Traveller, ** by the word * destroy ; ' but 
yet // is destruction, as far as the results are 
concerned, and the benefit of man or beast is 
involved. I allude to draining — I know tracts 
of land which used formerly to be too wet, 

0^2 



228 T^he First Principles 

but which, notwithstanding, produced a large 
amount of pasture, and have, from excess of 
draining, become so parched that, in a dry sum- 
mer, there is scarcely a blade of grass upon them ; 
and in other places, from overlooking the course 
which the springs previously took before the 
land was drained, the greatest distress has been 
occasioned by the supply of water suddenly 
ceasing in localities at some distance lower 
down, where the source of the water had ever 
been unknown and unnoticed, though enjoyed 
time out of mind/* 

The Hermit said it appeared to him that 
the evils now recounted were simply caused by 
total want of reflection and observation, and, 
he must add, of intelligence ; that, where such 
a precious necessary of life as water was con- 
cerned, no person ought to be permitted totally 
and entirely to bury it in underground drains, 
the very courses of which are soon forgotten ; 
that, wherever land is drained, and springs 
thereby concealed, a pool or reservoir of some 
kind ought to be a matter of law^ and com- 
pulsory upon all drainers, whether landlords or 



of Good Cookery. 229 

tenants, so that access might always at once be 
had to water ; and that no degree of drainage 
should ever involve the total concealment, and 
consequent entire loss, of that invaluable ele- 
ment in any locality whether wet or dry. 

The Traveller said, that **the loss sustained by 
excessive and indiscreet draipage was also much 
felt by man and beast on the roadside; and 
that, although it might have been untidy, and 
sometimes inconvenient in wet weather, to 
leave little rivulets, so common in past times, 
to overflow and intrude upon the turnpike, or 
bye roads, yet that it was infinitely preferable to 
the total absence of water, which was now the 
characteristic of the Queen's highway, where 
poor horses, cattle, pigs, sheep, and dogs were 
obliged to travel miles without a single spout, 
stone trough, or streamlet, where they could 
quench their thirst, although beer-houses, on 
an average of two or three, or six or eight to 
every mile, were ready to supply their drovers 
with the perpetual means of intoxication ! " 

The Hermit, as was his wont, became sad 
and silent when he heard facts which ap- 



530 T^he First Principles 

peared to his mind to indicate the diminution, 
if not absolute decay, of human intelligence ; 
he, therefore, contented himself with a deep 
sigh, while he ejaculated, — 

** Is it possible that there can be any common 
sense left in the world, if men employ their 
ingenuity in burying water out of sight, be- 
cause they have a superabundance of that pre- 
cious fluid, while, at the same time, the very 
least drop is charged in London as if it was an 
expensive and artificial production, instead of a 
free gift to all from Heaven ? " He then pro- 
posed to the Traveller to return home by an- 
other way, which he selected, for the purpose 
of showing the comfort as well as picturesque 
beauty of several spouts of clear water, which 
filled stone wells, or basins, formed in the banks 
by the wayside, and equally adapted for the re- 
freshment of man or beast, by each of which 
were large stones, where one or two laborers 
were seated under the verdant shade of a 
spreading hazeL 

The Hermit remarked that one of these 
rustic figures reminded him of the beautiful 



of Good Cookery. 231 

vignettes in Bewick's " British Birds," the 
earlier edition of which, he recollected, was 
printed at Alnwick in the last century; and 
that, in engravings of that date, it was common 
in rural subjects to see a peasant drinkipg out of 
his hand or his hat by the roadside, or kneeling 
down over a well. 

** Alas ! " said the Traveller, " the poor way- 
farers now would not find sufficient water by 
the roadside to fill their hand, although they 
would find intoxicating liquors manufactured 
enough to drown themselves, and enough to 
destroy both body and soul. With regard to 
poor animals coming from fairs and markets, 
the tortures they now suflfer are dreadful to 
think of; and, instead of these delightful 
umbrageous hedges, which afiford both shade 
and shelter, everything is cut and shorn for 
miles, until there is not shade for a snail 
without a shell, where verdure used to 
abound." 

The Hermit asked what could be the plea 
for such wanton destruction, as he did not sup- 
pose that it was really an epidemic or a lunacy ; 



232 T^he First Principles 

I . - - — - - - - - — • — I 

that some reason must be alleged, whether well 
or ill founded ? 

The Traveller said that any idea carried to 
an excess which produced evil might be deno- 
minated .a mania, and that one of the manias 
of the present day was about roads ; that he 
admitted roads should have air enough to dry 
them after rain, and that the hedges should not 
be allowed to extend their boughs in such a 
manner over roads as to impede the progress 
of passing vehicles, but that the degree of 
pruning which would answer for one purpose 
would answer equally well for the other, and 
that the excessive cutting down and exhaustive 
laying to which hedges were now subjected 
in many places was a twofold evil, as, by cut- 
ting hedges so low, travellers were cut to pieces 
by wind, or scorched by sun, and by laying 
hedges in the way generally practised, viz. cut- 
ting the live wood nearly (or quite) to the 
under bark, the quick (or whatever species of 
shrub was subjected to this treatment) became 
exhausted by loss of sap, and was thrown back 
for -two or three years, and often killed. When 



of Good Cookery. 233 

the system of laying was pursued, each bough 
ought to be split or notched as little as possible, 
just enough and no more than would suffice to 
enable the hedger to bend it to its place ; that 
the tops of hedges ought never to be cut flat 
like a turnpike road, as was frequently the 
case, which often caused the quicks to die 
down several inches, from the snow lying on 
the top of the hedge and freezing into the young 
shoots ; that hedges ought to be allowed to 
grow up in single spikes, by which means the 
snow would slip oiF on the slightest thaw, in- 
stead of freezing and thawing, and r^-freezing 
on the whole flat surface of the top of the 
hedge ; and that by cutting hedges so low, the 
possessor of the land lost all shade or shelter for 
his animals on the field side, and animals fre- 
quently broke over into the road, or seeing 
some of their own kind passing, galloped along 
exciting the horses of travellers to become 
restive, or run away.* 

The Hermit expressed surprise and pleasure 

• A most unpleasant result of hedges not being fences^ and 
one which often occurs. 



234 ^^ First Principles 

at the evident reflection which now accom- 
panied the Traveller's recollections before he 
could have so clearly traced cause to efl^ect, 
to which his guest replied with great candour, 
that before he had been led to reflect, he 
could only have stated what ofiended his eye; 
but since he had been in the habit of observ- 
ing, he had found that he was gradually be- 
coming better able to judge of those things for 
which he could not previously have assigned 
any good reason either for censure or for com- 
mendation. 

The Hermit asked him to name any other 
matters connected with the management of 
hedges which struck him, and the Traveller 
expatiated especially on the barbarous destruc- 
tion of hollies in hedges, which he said were 
really treated as if they were the most per- 
nicious weeds, instead of the most valuable of 
all live fences. The holly produced shade and 
shelter all the year round, and was, from its 
prickly leaf, quite impassable when properly 
treated, as well as one of the most ornamental 
of evergreens from its berries in winter ; and, 



of Good Cookery. 235 



indeed, profitable on that account in the neigh- 
bourhood of large towns, where the custom of 
decorating with holly at Christmas was still 
universal from the poorest to the richest, and 
consequently the holly, the mistletoe, and ivy * 
were sold in towns to an immense extent. But, 
instead of the holly being carefully preserved in 
hedges, it was often gashed and laid like the com- 
mon quick, although, to use the language of the 
gardener, " Hollies would not stand the knife " 
with impunity, and soon bled to death if laid ; 
and any one who noticed a holly hedge laid, 
would find that it was not only thrown back 
for years, but that a great portion of the hollies 
frequently died down to the root, while the 
boughs of holly cut off were of all wood the 
worst for mending hedges, as they the soonest 
perished ; that hollies ought never to be topped^ 
but left to grow up as high as possible, care- 
fully shortening their boughs where they pro- 
jected over the roadi and where they could 
not be twisted in and worked through the 



See Traveller's Note Book. 



236 The First Principles 

hedge, which, wherever it could be done, was 
the best and strongest of fences ; and as no 
holly bore berries except on the ends of the 
sprays, this was a cogent reason for not topping 
them. He also said, that, as in the case of all 
other trees, the snow acted injuriously if it lay 
and froze on the cut tops of the sprays ; that a 
good holly hedge on the farmer's side was the 
most valuable shade and shelter for his sheep 
and cattle, and on the traveller's side was of 
similar benefit, whilst by keeping it clipped 
or twisted back, no sort of injury could be in- 
flicted on the highway — that hollies were very 
slow in growing, but everlasting when once 
well rooted, if not killed by the extraordinary 
passion for destruction of the present age, or 
the entire want of knowledge and reflection 
so perpetually manifested in its treatment, but 
he thought want of reflection was even more 
palpable in the treatment of the banks upon 
which hedges grew, whether natural or arti- 
ficial. When artificial, much labour must, of 
course, be expended in raising the bank on 
which to plant the hedge which was to form 



of Good Cookery. 237 



the fence, and yet, in many districts that he 
had seen, the banks were not only so perse- 
veringly pared on the roadside, that the roots 
of whatever formed the hedge were often seen 
to protrude horizontally through the soil, and 
were consequently dried up, and perished by 
the summer's sun and the winter's frost, but the 
banks were often undermined to such an extent 
that they gave way above ; and where this did 
not occur, instead of being green in summer 
with a luxuriant abundance of leaves, their 
sickly, exhausted state was evident from the 
privation of the nourishment continually ab- 
stracted by paring away the bank next the 
road or excavating under it 

The Traveller said he recollected that a 
friend of his had told him he had discovered, in 
his own locality, the cause of this annual de- 
struction, to the injury of the road as regarded 
a good fence, and still more to the injury of the 
farmer, who would be compelled to be at the 
expense of making a dead hedge if he could 
not keep up a live one, and that all these e;yils 
were entirely occasioned by want of observa- 



238 T^he First Principles 

tion and reflection on the part of both parties 
most interested.* 

The Traveller had become so warm on this 
subject, that he would have gone on longer 
upon the same topic; but the Hermit inter- 
rupted him, and, looking at his hour-glasS| 
found it was getting late; he had turned it 
down at ten o*clock, and now it was past 
eleven. And he said, that although the prin- 
cipal study in which they were engaged (the 
culinary art) was agreeably and usefully diver- 
sified by " various remarks on many things ^ past 
and present j^ yet the main point must not be 
forgotten — viz. the progress of his guest in 
learning how to provide for the pressing re- 
quirements of every day's food. 

*' I remember,'* said the Hermit, " that you 
asked me to give some information on the sub- 
ject of salting meat. I do not profess to pre- 
serve meat for voyages, but if you still wish to 
know how meat ought to be salted for domestic 
use, where it can be procured fresh every week, 
I shall be very happy to enter upon the subject, 

* See Traveller's Note BooL 



of Good Cookery. 239 



as I have perceived so many indications of the 
improvement of your powers of observation and 
reflection, that I am not afraid of overpower- 
ing you by commencing on another branch 
of domestic economy which ought to be well 
understood in every house in the United King- 
dom, where salt meat is ever eaten/* 

The Traveller expressed his acknowledg- 
ments for being at last permitted to enter upon 
this new department of knowledge; and the 
Hermit commenced his instructions by a few 
interrogatories, after taking him into an apart- 
ment he had never seen before, in the centre 
of which was a very large stone table, with a 
groove all round it^ and a small channel cut out 
at one corner. On this table was a round of 
beef, weighing fifty pounds ; * it was curled up 
in the usual form of a round of beef, though 
not skewered. The senior widow was standing 
by it with a large sharp knife in her hand. 

** Now,'* said the Hermit to his friend, " that 
round of beef is to be salted. It came in this 
morning, and Gwenllian well knows that I 



See Appendix No. XXXVIII. 



240 T^he First Principles 



have reason to find fault with the manner in 
which it is placed upon the table." 

Whether the excellent female to whom he 
alluded understood the English words he ut- 
tered, the Traveller did not know, as his host 
always made a point of speaking Welsh to all 
the widows, and was never addressed by them 
in any other language, but it did not require 
words to interpret the angry glance that lighted 
upon the unfortunate Gwenllian, who certainly 
comprehended its meaning, as she instantly 
seized the beef, uncoiled it, and laid it out full 
length, with the outside next the stone. 

" Now," said the Hermit, " I will take 
advantage of the un\i%\xA forgetfulness of which 
Gwenllian has been guilty, to begin your ex- 
amination from an earlier stage in the manage- 
ment of beef than I had intended. First of all, 
can you tell me why I was so much displeased 
at seeing the beef coiled up and placed in the 
shape it ought to be when boiled, instead of as 
it now is laid ? " 

The Traveller was very much annoyed by 
this question, for he had hoped and expected 



of Good Cookery . 24 1 

to have distinguished himself by his answers^ 
as he felt a certain degree of confidence, not 
arising (as formerly) from the conceit of igna- 
ranee J but from the consciousness of a certain 
degree of ability, obtained by the recent prac- 
tical exercise of his faculties; but he was so 
completely puzzled by the present query, that 
he felt he had better confess at once that he 
could not divine any reason for the Hermit's 
preference for one position to another with 
respect to the beef. 

His host next asked him what he would do 
with the beef, if obliged to direct the salting ? 

'* I would mix salt and water together,** re- 
plied his friend, " in a tub, and put the beef 
into it/* 

** What proportions of salt to the water ? *' 
asked the Hermit. 

'* I do not know," said the Traveller; •* but 
I suppose I could tell by tasting it, and if it 
tasted like sea-water, it would be salt enough/* 

** I see,** said the Hermit, " that you know 
nothing at all about the matter, and therefore 
it is no use to ask you any more questions until 

R 



242 T^he First Principles 



you are a little better informed upon this sub- 
ject, and I will proceed to explain my own 
reasons. If the beef had been left curled up 
long upon the stone, it would have become 
tainted on the part touching the stone, and the 
inside, being also so much excluded from any 
draught of air, and more liable to corrupt, 
would soon have begun to putrefy. I always 
have the rounds divided into two parts, as they 
are much easier to salt, and are quite large 
enough for any ordinary table. Will you do 
me the favour to show me how you would cut 
this round in two } " 

^* With the greatest pleasure," said the Tra- 
veller ; and, seizing the knife from Gwenllian, 
he was about to draw it across the middle of 
the beef, when the Hermit seized his arm in 
undisguised alarm. 

" You will ruin it," said he, " if you cut it 
in that way." 

The Traveller was rather offended, and said 
that it was the Hermit's fault, for telling him 
that he always had the rounds of beef cut in two. 

" But," said the Hermit, " I never told you 



of Good Cookery. 243 

there was but one way of dividing beef into 
two parts. — Now give the knife back^ if you 
please, to Gwenllian ; and if she has recovered 
her powers of memory, you will see how she 
proceeds, and I will explain the reasons for 
each process/* 

Gwenllian then made an incision in the 
centre of the thin end of the beef, and split it 
the whole way through, thus obtaining two 
smaller rounds of equal length. She then laid 
one out, with the fleshy part uppermost, and 
the skin next the stone, where she left it, while, 
after having placed the other in the same 
position, she made sundry gashes across the 
thickest part, taking care not to cut it through. 
She then put her knife under the thin end of 
the inside of the beef, and, going on regularly, 
took oflf all sinews and slimy particles, wiping 
the meat thoroughly dry with a clean cloth as 
she proceeded, till she had gone from one end 
to the other. In the course of this process, she 
found one or two round substances imbedded in 
the meat, which she cut out and had buried. 

These, the Hermit said, were known by the 

R 2 



244- T^he First Principles 

name of " kernels ; " and if they were not re- 
moved, no meat would ever keep, however well 
salted, but would begin to corrupt in the place 
where the kernel lay, and would gradually 
spread^ till the whole of the meat became 
tainted. He believed these kernels were much 
more numerous in stall-fed and over-fed ani- 
mals than others, and doubted if any round 
of beef was entirety free from them, but, not 
being a surgeon, he could not tell what these 
kernels were, or of what they were composed ; 
about six pounds of ragged pieces of lean were 
also cut off for pies. 

Gwerillian having completed this first pro- 
cess, which she finished by cutting the thin 
end of the fiap into a tapering point, she took 
a soup-plate, which held a pound of finely 
powdered salt, which had been in an oven or 
hot closet until quite warm ; she first of all 
carefully sprinkled salt into all the gashes and 
interstices of the meat, and then rubbed in 
more salt with her hand, until every bit of the 
meat had acquired a greyish-blue tint, instead 
of being blood-red. She then did the same to 



of Good Cookery. 245 

the other half-round, using half a pound of salt 
to each half-round. She then so disposed of the 
beef with reference to the groove in the table, 
and the channel in the corner, that the li<}uor 
which exuded from them should be received in 
a pan which stood under the corner. A quarter 
of a pound of hot salt was again rubbed into 
each round at night, another quarter the fol- 
lowing morning, another the following even- 
ing, and the third morning another quarter 
of a pound was bestowed upon each of the 
halves, making in all a pound and a half to 
each half-round. On the third afternoon, they 
were placed in a large pan, with a sufficient 
quantity of brine to cover them, composed of 
a gallon of cold water to a pound of salt. In 
this they were turned about and rubbed in the 
evening; and the next morning the pickle, 
being quite bloody, was thrown away ; and the 
rounds were then placed in a fresh pickle of 
the same strength, the only difference being 
that it had been previously boiled, and, having 
stood all night, was quite cold, and ready for 
use. In this fresh pickle the beef was turned. 



246 T^he First Principles 

night and morning; and whenever it became 
muddy or bloody, fresh boiled pickle was ex- 
changed for it, until the beef was boiled, at the 
end of five or six days. 

The Hermit said, that the number of times 
the pickle required to be changed depended 
upon the difference of the meat itself contain- 
ing more or less blood, and the heat of the 
weather, but that whenever it was bloody or 
muddy it Ought to be changed; and that he 
found from six to seven days quite long enough 
for beef to be in salt before it was boiled, and 
after that time the meat continually lost flavour, 
and became a mere vehicle for salt, the water 
in which it was boiled being useless for poor 
people, as he had before observed. 

The Traveller asked why he put unboiled salt 
and water the first time, and not afterwards ? 

The Hermit replied that he did so to save 
time, as, whether the pickle was boiled or 
unboiled, it would become so bloody after the 
first immersion of the beef as to require chang- 
ing within twenty-four hours ; and that there 
was, therefore, no advantage in boiling it the 



of Good Cookery. 247 



first time, as the boiled pickle was intended 
for longer keeping, 

Gwenllians next proceeding was to attend to 
two ox tongues, which had also been brought 
in that morning ; and, after cutting off all the 
roots and well washing the tongues, she rubbed 
them well with salt, and put them on a dish on 
the stone table. The further proceedings with 
the tongues were, day by day, inspected by the 
Traveller, and finally written down,* 

The Traveller, having been rather discon- 
certed, from his inability to prove that he could 
devise anything with reference to salting beef, 
thought that he would venture upon a sug- 
gestion with respect to tongues, and he said : 
" I should think it would save a great deal of 
time if the tongues, after being well salted, 
were hung up to dry, instead of the trouble of 
re-boiling or renewing the pickle until the 
tongues are eaten/* 

The Hermit replied shortly, that as he never 
bought dried tongues he could not tell whether 
they ever were equal to those pickled and 



* See Appendix No. XXXIX. 



248 T^he First Principles 

unAntA^ but that he never had succeeded in 
drying a tongue to be at all equal to those eaten 
fresh out of the pickle^ that those dried were 
generally tainted on the under side, and he had 
always remarked the same difference and the 
same effects with regard to dried chines, which 
invariably became rusty. 

The Traveller then led the conversation to 
bacon and hams, and commenced by asking 
what the Hermit considered the best food for 
fettening pigs ? 

" If/' replied his host, ** you could tell me 
the best food for keeping pigs thin without 
starving them, I should esteem it very valuable, 
and I never allow my pigs to be regularly 
fatted. The porkers are allowed to range in a 
very large yard, and take a great deal of exer- 
cise in the autumn when turned out in the 



acorn season/* 



•* I thought pigs turned up the ground," said 
the Traveller. 

" Not if they have rings in their noses/' said 
his host. ** But to proceed with what I was 
saying, — notwithstanding the advantages my 



of Good Cookery. 249 

porkers enjoy of air and exercise, they arc 
always too fat^ though never shut up in a stye 
to be fatted/' 

"What objection is there to their being 
fat ? " said the Traveller. 

•* There are two/* replied the Hermit. 
" The first, that if very fat there is often great 
waste, if the meat is dressed when fresh, as 
all the fat cannot be consumed with the lean ; 
secondly, if salted, although a larger portion 
of fat can be eaten thus prepared, it is objec- 
tionable to have a great deal more fat than lean, 
the proper proportion for eating being two 
parts lean to one part fat." 

** I am surprised," said the Traveller, ** that, 
with your inventive talents, you have not dis- 
covered some mode of curing or mitigating this 
evil." 

** The cure," said the Hermit, ** is out of 
my power ; although I know very well that if 
pigs could only range about in fields like sheep 
and cattle, eating grass and taking exercise, and 
having only two very moderate meals a day, 
and were killed without being put up, they 



250 T^he First Principles 

would not have more than the natural proper 
accompaniment of fat, and the pork would 
be much more nvholesome as well as better fla- 
voured : but as I have no forests or warrens in 
which to turn them loose, and as, when they 
have no acorns to engage their attention, they 
have a peculiar delight in making their way 
through hedges or under gates into my neigh- 
bour's land, and as I find that labour is now too 
dear for me to aflx)rd a man for a swineherd, 
and my attempts at educating little girls or 
boys for that office have always ended in the 
pigs doing everything that they ought not to 
do, and the children making the holes in the 
hedges larger by creeping through the apertures 
the pigs had made, I have been obliged to con- 
tent myself with abstracting the overplus of 
fat, and thus preventing waste, as, in spite of 
all my efforts, and all their running about the 
yard, my pigs are always fatter than I approve 
for domestic consumption ; but as there is 
nothing like a practical lesson, you shall see 
the second widow on duty preparing a porker 
in the next compartment." 



of Good Cookery. 251 

The Hermit then led the way into his pork 
larder, where Marged had spread before her 
on another stone table two legs, two loins, two 
necks, and two shoulders of a porker killed the 
day before. The head was divided into two 
parts, and, with the tongue, ears, tail, and 
pettitoes, were put into a pan of cold salt and 
water, which had already been changed once. 
Although the joints of pork were not to be com* 
pared, as to the thickness of fat, to the pork 
the Traveller had seen in butchers' shops, yet 
he could easily believe that a great part of it 
could not be eaten if roasted with the lean, 
and he quickly understood the sense of the 
exploit he saw Marged perform. She dex- 
terously cut off, in one thick piece, the whole 
of the rind, leaving only attached to the meat 
a sufficient quantity of fat for consumption 
when roasted. When this had been done to 
the necks and loins, a considerable quantity of 
fine lard was thereby saved from waste, which 
was again cut off from the rind, and, being re- 
duced into small pieces, was thrown into a pan 
of spring water with sprigs of rosemary. The 



252 T^he First Principles 

rind was placed on a dish by itself, and the 
Hermit informed him that it was very useful to 
place over beef when stewing, or over a baked 
fillet of veal ; and after it has been used for 
these purposes, the remains could finally be 
finished for making glaze. 

The Traveller was very anxious to know 
what the Hermit intended to do with the joints 
from which a portion of the fat had been taken, 
and those which had not been touched. 

The Hermit informed him that he did not 
deprive the shoulders of fat or rind, as they 
had seldom anything to spare; but that the 
necks and loins were destined for roasting, for 
cutlets, for pork pies, and sausages.* The 
shoulders would be salted on the stone for two 
or three days, and then put into pickle made 
in the same way as for the beef; that the 
hams *!* would be cured with salt and treacle, 
and dried, and the pig's head and pettitoes were, 
according to circumstances, either boiled fresh 
out of pickle (being treated the same tis the 

♦ See Appendix No. XL. 
t See Appendix No. XLI. 



of Good Cookery. 253 

beef), or made into brawn.* The Hermit im- 
pressed upon his guest, that the same principles 
which he had endeavoured to instil into his 
mind with respect to the cookery of fresh meat 
equally applied to salted meat, and that a large 
quantity of very nutritious jelly, which assisted 
in making soup for the poor, was produced by 
boiling the pig's head and pettitoes in a double 
vessel, and also most savoury jelly stock was ob- 
tained by preparing the fresh pork for pies, well 
flavoured with vegetables, in the same manner. 

The Traveller inquired how long the Hermit 
considered bacon could be kept, if properly 
cured ? 

His host informed him that he did not 
believe that any bacon could be kept beyond 
a year without being rusty, and that it was the 
very worst economy to keep bacon long; and 
there could be no necessity for so doing, as 
those who made their own bacon must kill 
their pigs once a year, unless they were very 
bad managers ; and, of course, the longer it was 
kept the less nourishment, and consequently 

* See Appendix No. XLII. 



254 ^^^ F/W/ Principles 

the worse food, it would produce after it had 
dried sufficiently to be eaten. 

The Traveller said the Hermit had not men- 
tioned his treatment of bacon pigs ; to which 
he replied that the principle was exactly the 
same as the system for porkers, but that the 
diet of the porkers was rather different, the 
bacon pigs having more solid food, and having 
a stye and a yard to sleep in. 

The Traveller inquired why the bacon pigs 
slept in an apartment by themselves, shut up 
from the others; and was informed that the 
porkers had an open, though warm shed, but 
that it was found from experience that the bacon 
pigs, being always more or less fat and un- 
wieldy, were liable to be injured by the porkers, 
who, either in play or ill-temper, often bruised 
the bacon pigs, and were bitten by them in 
return, but the bacon pigs had as much liberty 
during the day as the porkers. 

After this conversation the days passed ra- 
pidly, and the Traveller constantly cultjl^rated 
his recovered powers of observation, and made 
evident progress in the art of reflection. He 



of Good Cookery. 255 



and the Hermit took a walk one day to some 
corn-fields. It had been unusually wet for four 
previous weeks, and the Traveller had expressed 
his fear that all the corn cut, but not carried, 
when the weather changed, would be saturated 
with wet, and not fit for use. 

On the first fine day after these remarks, his 
host proposed that they should make a personal 
inspection of the state of the corn. The Tra- 
veller had never before paid the slightest atten- 
tion to the different modes of harvesting, but 
he was now sufficiently advanced in intelligence 
to reason upon what he then saw, or recollected 
having seen ; and he quickly noticed that there 
were some fields, which belonged to separate 
farms, in which the sheaves of corn were quite 
different to all the others. The exception 
reminded him of the sheaves he had seen 
in England, for, although he had never before 
thought upon the subject, the form was familiar 
to him, whilst the others were a complete work 
of art,' and so constructed that they formed a 
point, and the straw attached to the corn was 
so placed and turned downwards, that the 



256 T^he First Principles 

straw formed a complete protection against the 
drenching showers which had saturated the 
grain of the first-mentioned sheaves, but had 
had no effect whatever upon the others. 

The Traveller made a sketch of these dif- 
ferent modes of harvesting, and hardly needed 
the Hermit's explanation to prove the great 
superiority of the Welsh mode to that of the 
English. The Hermit assured him that he had 
known corn belonging to Welsh farmers un^ 
injured, after having been out three weeks in 
wet weather, and which, after the cessation of 
rain, had reached the barn in good order. 

The Traveller then examined the grains of 
some of the ears of vt^heat which were exposed 
according to the usual plan of English har- 
vesting. He found that they had begun to 
sprout, whilst the grains he examined from the 
Welsh stacks were dry and hard, although the 
outer straw was wet; but that, the Hermit 
informed him, would very soon dry, with a little 
wind or sun. He said that these small Welsh 

stacks were called by the natives bwchy* and 

- ■ ■ 

* See Plate No. V. 






Wel6h- Wheat Sta^-Jf. 



G e i f r 

Welyk Barley i^keaf 



En^lush- Whfot Sh£a,ves , 



siOTHPBRKBessaaawi^B^i^BBanasaBSPsqia 



of Good Cookery . 257 



when made of barley, geifr ; * and that there 
was a great deal of practical science, art, in- 
genuity, and good sense in their construction, 
and they needed no eulogium from him, as the 
state of the same grain, cut at the same time, 
but treated in so different a manner, required 
no further comment to prove which was the 
good system, and which was the bad one. 

The Traveller could not at all comprehend 
why the English did not adopt the Welsh plan, 
as it was practically proved to be so much the 
best. 

His host replied that he could not assist him 
in solving that problem^ but he would simply 
inform him that the owner of the spoiled stacks 
had come into the country five years before, 
and had had every opportunity of seeing the 
benefit of the plan adopted by the natives, 
but, notwithstanding this, he preferred the con- 
tinuance of the three sheaves plan placed with 
all their ears upwards,-^ so that each grain 
might imbibe the whole benefit of every 

* See Plate No. VI. 
t See Plate No. VII. 



258 ^he First Principles 

shower, by which means he had already reapea 
the benefit by having damaged corn three times 
in five years ! 

The Hermit was much diverted by the Tra- 
veller's credulity, and his sanguine belief that 
his sketch would produce the slightest altera- 
tion in the English plan of arranging the 
sheaves so that the wheat might be protected 
from the rain, instead of being so contrived as 
to receive the descending showers without the 
loss of a drop of water ! and the Hermit gave 
a sketch of the manner in which the sheaves of 
barley were made (called geifr in Wales), and 
which was also good and adapted for throwing 
off the rain, though not nearly equal to the 
bycfiod.* 

In the course of conversation, on the way 
home, the Traveller reverted again to the 
culinary department, in which he took a deeper 
interest every day, and informed the Hermit 
that, as the time was approaching when busi- 
ness would compel him to go to London, and 
afterwards to visit some relations in the country, 

• Plural for Bwch. 



of Good Cookery. 259 

he must ask him two more favours-*— the one, 
he was afraid, might meet with a refusal, if 
answered hastily, but it was a matter which he 
had so much at heart, that, being aware that 
his proposal would require reflection, he en- 
treated his kind friend not to reply for a week, 
but to give it his best and most indulgent con- 
sideration ; that his next request, though second 
in importance, he would mention first, as he 
was in hopes of receiving an immediate and 
favourable reply. " It is,** he added, ** that 
you will select an extra assistant for the widows 
for a day or two, or even for a few hours, and 
that you will allow me to be a witness of the 
instruction she receives, that I may have some 
idea of the method of teaching, as well as of 
the sort of mistakes which may be expected 
from a novice." 

The Hermit replied that he would certainly 
comply with his wishes, but that he was very 
much afraid that the widows, however cleverly 
they executed what they had been taught, 
would not be able to teach without he himself 
superintended the first lessons. 

s 2 



26o The First Principles 



The Traveller said he could not understand 
how it was possible for persons to know so well 
how to execute without being able to teach, 
and that (without any teaching) if their pupil 
was allowed to watch them^ he believed that 
she might learn. 

The Hermit smiled significantly^ .and said 
he could not compliment his guest with 
regard to his own memory, " For," said he, 
**what trouble have I not had to make you 
anderstand the reason of anything that you 
have seen^ and for some time it was necessary 
for me to find outward eyes for you as well as 
inward understanding, before you could leara 
to observe and afterwards to reason." 

The Traveller was in rather a contradictory 
humour on this occasion, and he fell back into 
his old habit of pertness, and answered rather 
tartly, that it ** was a very different thing to 
teach cooking to an English gentleman and a 
Welsh kitchen-maid." 

*' Indeed it is,'* said the Hermit, " and I 
would sooner teach the latter than the former, 
because she would sooner learn ! " 



of Good Cookery. 261 



This speech exasperated the Traveller still 
more^ and he exclaimed that he had no doubt 
that he would have learned much quicker if it 
had not been for the Hermit's obstinacy in 
always speaking Welsh to the widows, although 
they could understand English enough to obey 
the few directions that they required, and that 
indeed he did not believe that they required 
anything more than a look ! 

The Hermit generally became particularly 
good-tempered when the Traveller was very 
much the reverse ; and he replied, with the 
greatest good-humour, that he considered that 
every soul had as absolute a right to the use of 
his own language as the beasts and birds, and 
that if he had not been the countryman of his 
servants, he would still be proud to speak as 
much of their language as he was able to 
acquire; but that he knew well that the 
Welsh diminished in value {as human beings) 
in exact proportion as they became indif- 
ferent to their own land, which indifference 
was always produced more or less by the aban- 
donment of their own native tongue, and that 



262 T^he First Principks 

he would never promote the deterioration of 
intellectual beings any more than the adulter- 
ation of food ; that it was absurd and barbarous 
to suppose that different nations on the face of 
the earth, created by the Almighty with various 
talents and various tongues, could be improved 
by the extinction of any noble language (also 
the work of the same Creator) which suited the 
expression of their thoughts and feelings, and 
the accents of which called forth all the best 
impulses and sentiments of their nature. It 
would be as rational to argue that any of the 
best grains or roots bestowed by Providence 
for the bodily sustenance 6f man and beast, 
had for their benefit better be exterminated. 
The Hermit added that he spoke Welsh to 
the Welsh as a duty as well as a pleasure, and 
in so doing he only followed the example of 
every continental nation. The Breton nobility 
spoke Breton to their Breton dependants, 
whether they could speak French or not, the 
Belgians and the Dutch did the same, al- 
though they were equally fluent in French, 
and although, in the higher ranks, the Russians 



^^^^^^■ii""""i"*««""i««BB« 



of Good Cookery. 263 

■* 

and the Danes, the Swedes and the Poles^ 
were excellent French scholars, they carefully 
preserved their own languages. The English 
language was not, and never could be, so uni- 
versally spoken by foreigners as the French; 
any man would be considered insane out 
of these islands, if he convened meetings to 
propose that all nations should not only agree 
to learn one common language, but that each 
should abandon its own tongue yZ^r the purpose 
of the better cultivation of the human intellect, 
the preservation and diffusion of literature, and 
the maintenance of that nationality which is 
the mainstay of religion and morality, and the 
support of the throne ! ** But,'* said he, ^^ you 
have no reason to complain, for I have never 
given a direction about cookery in Welsh that 
I have not explained to you much more at 
length in English." 

The Traveller by this time had repented his 
little ebullition, and was fully aware that he 
had been guilty of undeniable ill-breeding 
and of great ingratitude. He recollected that 
he had been hospitably entertained, and had 



264 ^he First Principles 

received food» information, and instruction 
without fee or reward; that he was eating 
Welsh bread in a Welsh habitation, that he had 
a Welsh host, and was served by Welsh hands, 
and yet that he (the Stranger), whose language 
was courteously spoken to himself by his host, 
had virtually questioned the right of that host and 
of his native servants to the use of the tongue 
of their own land, which he had first visited un- 
invited, but where " hospitality had greeted 
him,'' and " courtesy had taken him prisoner," * 
although he could not utter a word of the 
tongue which had been spoken by the ancient 
Britons from time immemorial, whose earliest 
literature was one of the most interesting in 
existence, and whose modern literature included 
every subject most conducive to the interest 
of religion and the cultivation of the human 
mind, and which has been kept up entirely, 
both in prose and poetry, by the genuine sons 
of Cambria, who are the authors, the readers. 



• Translation from the Welsh : — 

" Os Dieithr Lletteugarwch a*th erys 
Os Gelyn, addfwynder a'th garchara." 



of Good Cookery. 265 

the printers, and the publishers of Welsh 
books. Having a kind heart and a refined 
mind, the Traveller was really grieved when 
he thus reflected, and expressed deep sorrow 
for what he had said ; and believing in his sin- 
cerity, the Hermit was quickly pacified and 
changed the conversation by promising that he 
would grant his first request, and begging to 
know what the other favour was, which he 
mentioned as being second in order though jfrrf 
in importance. 

The good man at last extracted from his 
friend that he wanted him to promise to ac- 
company him to London ! 

The astonishment of the Hermit surpassed 
description, and it would require too much time 
and space to recount the animated discussion 
which took place before he yielded. The argu- 
ment which at last induced him to consent was, 
that the Traveller expressed his apprehension 
that he should relapse into indolence and indif- 
ference if he returned to London without his 
venerable companion, and if again plunged 
alone into a world so different to that in which 



266 The First Principles 

the Hermit existed, that he should forget how 
to see or how to observe. 

This was all very true, but nevertheless the 
Traveller was actuated by an additional motive 
which he dared not name, but he certainly 
anticipated far more amusement from the effect 
of modern London upon the Hermit than ex- 
pected improvement to himself by his friend's 
society. It was, however, finally agreed that 
they should together shortly proceed to Lon- 
don, where the Traveller was obliged to go on 
account of his own affairs on leaving the cell 
of his hospitable entertainer, and to exchange 
the simple but elevating influences of a practi- 
cally useful life in a secluded corner of the 
Principality of Wales, for the tumult and dis- 
tractions of the Metropolis. 

Let not the reader, however, expect that he 
will find in this volume full details of their 
journey, or the history of the Welsh Hermit in 
London. If the Traveller should hereafter be 
able to prove the acquirement of sufficient in- 
dustry to have written a journal containing the 
observations made by his Centenarian friend 



of Good Cookery. 267 

during that period of his life, they will probably 
be sufficiently numerous to make another book, 
which may or may not ever be published. 

The next proceeding in the Hermit's cell 
was teaching a novice, A willing (but previously 
uninstructed) Welsh girl of the age of eighteen 
having been sent for, the Hermit desired the 
widows to show her how to make a tapioca 
pudding and a rice pudding fit for an invalid,^ 
premising that he should not give a single 
direction himself, as they perfectly well knew 
how to make these puddings, and that the 
Traveller himself should stand by in silence, 
while they executed the above orders and ex- 
plained what was necessary to their new pupil. 
It is 2/;?necessary to detail the particulars of 
what took place : it is sufBcient to say that the 
Traveller was well amused by seeing the pud- 
dings made ; the Hermit was more amused by 
anticipating the probable results on the follow- 
ing day, and the pupil was highly delighted 
with the idea that on the morrow she would 
exhibit her new learning in the shape of two 

* See Appendix Nq. XLIII. 



268 7 he First Principles 

more similar puddings, which she had not 
the slightest doubt she would make to per- 
fection after one lesson. The next day was 
appointed for the trial of her newly acquired 
skill. The Welsh widows were desired to 
show the girl everything that they did, and 
the Traveller was inwardly gratified by the 
belief that, if the new scholar was at fault, 
he would be able to direct without the Her- 
mit's assistance, from having only looked on 
the day before. The Hermit commenced by 
asking the scholar how much tapioca she re- 
quired for her pudding. She said **a little 
bit." The Hermit upon this gave her a tea- 
spoonful. She said she " had had it in a tea- 
cup before." He then put the teaspoonful into 
a teacup ; she said she thought that it was too 
little. 

" Was it not weighed or measured } " said 
the Hermit. 

" No," replied the girl ; " Gwenllian took it 
out in a teacup." 

" How much was it ? " 

" It was a teacupful." The teacup she held 



of Good Cookery. 269 



out was accordingly filled, and she then pro- 
ceeded to ask for milk. 

" How much milk ? " said the Hermit. 

" A pint/* was the answer. 

A pint was given. In due time the milk 
and the tapioca were put together to ** cree/* 
in a double saucepan. The girl was asked 
if she wanted anything else for that pudding. 
She said, " No, not then." She then asked 
for rice to begin her rice pudding. ** How 
much } " was the inquiry. ** The same as the 
tapioca,** was the answer. 

'^ What ! a teacupful ? " inquired the Her- 
mit. She replied in the affirmative, and re- 
ceived the quantity desired, holding out the 
same teacup which she had before taken for 
the tapioca. She then requested another pint 
of milk, and having received it, a second pud- 
ding was put in another double saucepan by 
the side of its predecessor. After some time 
she took out the contents, when they appeared 
soft and well mixed, and put them into two 
separate basins while she proceeded to break two 
eggs, yolk and white. These she mixed both 



270 The First Principles 



together on one plate/ and then taking a spoon 
disposed of the egg, dividing it by her eye be- 
tween the two basins of pudding. While these 
proceedings were going on, the four Welsh 
widows were engaged in other affairs, but the 
Hermit was obviously very uncomfortable, which 
the Traveller might have perceived, had he not 
been so well amused in watching the new 
scholar as not to pay much attention to the 
countenance of his host. When the novice 
had divided and mixed the two eggs between 
her two puddings, she proceeded to the oven, 
and having endeavoured to judge of the heat 
by putting in her hand (as she had seen Gwen- 
llian do the day before), she emptied the tapioca 
into one baking-dish, and the rice into another, 
and putting both the dishes on the baking-tin, 
shut them up in the oven. 

The Hermit then asked the Traveller, in 
a low voice, what he thought of the new 
pupil. 

" I think,'* said he, " that she is most pro- 
mising, and I have no doubt that the puddings 
will be excellent. I thought," added he, " that 



of Good Cookery. 27 1 

there would not be much difficuhy in learning, 
if she once watched such an expert performer 
as the widow Gwenllian." 

" We shall see/* said the Hermit. " I am 
not so sanguine as you are, but, at all events, 
I hope that if you had perceived any omissions, 
you would have mentioned them ? *' 

The Traveller was discreetly silent. He had 
not observed any omissions^ or noted any differences 
in the manner in which the pupil had executed 
on the second day what he had seen the widows 
do for her instruction the previous morning ; 
but he thought that he had better not 
make any decided declaration on the subject, 
lest he should afterwards be proved in the 
wrong. 

At length the dinner-hour arrived. The 
puddings made their appearance, but that 
appearance was very different to what he had 
expected. He, however, hoped that the taste 
would be unexceptionable, and that probably 
the oven had not been of the right temperature 
— a point with which he was not supposed to 
be acquainted. But alas! he was doomed to 



272 T^he First Principles 

disappointment. The rice pudding was stiff, 
dry, and tasteless. The tapioca pudding was 
equally tasteless, and so stiff that it was more 
like gum and flour baked together than the 
delicate nourishment produced by tapioca and 
milk properly cooked — in fact, both the pud- 
dings were uneatable. 

" Now," said the Hermit (after the unfor- 
tunate failure could no longer be denied), 
"have you the same confidence you before 
expressed in your belief as to the facility with 
which a young female of ordinary capacity 
may learn, if she is allowed to watch the 
proper execution of simple cookery performed 
by expert hands? and do you also think that 
all those who can cook must also be well able 
to teach ? I am certain that the widows were 
not only willing but anxious to explain what 
they thought necessary and to show every pro- 
cess relative to those puddings, and their scholar 
was equally anxious to learn; but, notwith- 
standing all this, the first attempt is a total 
failure, and you yourself, who have now been 
so long in the habit of observation, and who 



cf Good Cookery. 2J2 



might be supposed^ from your education, to have 
greater powers of memory, fully expected that 
these puddings would turn out as well as those 
of yesterday, — and yet, although you watched 
the process of making them both, you did not 
discover the difference of treatment." 

The Traveller confessed his error, bewailed 
his shortcomings y and requested his host to 
inform him of the cause of the failure. 

'* In the first place," said the Hermit, " the 
quantity required of tapioca was two ounces, 
but it was not weighed^ but measured in a 
particular teacup, which Gwenllian is accus- 
tomed to use, and which held exactly two 
ounces; but the teacup which the girl took 
for herself held more^ a fact which neither she 
nor yourself noticed. One pint of milk would 
have been the right quantity for two ounces 
of tapioca, but the same teacup was used, and 
held nearly three ounces ; consequently here was 
another fatal error of proportion in the first 
start. The third mistake was a total oblivion 
with respect to sugar — no sugar was added to 
the milk. With regard to the rice pudding. 



274 ^^^ First Principles 

she asked for the * same quantity * as the tapioca, 
whereas she ought to have had an ounce and a 
half— one fourth less than of tapioca. To this 
she put another pint of milk, instead of which 
she ought to have asked for a pint and a half, 
being half a pint more milk, and one fourth less 
rice, than was required for the tapioca, as rice 
absorbs much more liquid ; but she had for- 
gotten that Gwenllian had half filled the pint 
measure again, after having emptied the full 
pint upon the rice — here was another mistake 
of the same nature. When the tapioca and 
rice were taken off the fire, she put the mixture 
into two separate basins, instead of spreading 
each on two large flat dishes> by which means 
they would have become cool enough to receive 
the egg within the time necessary for that pur- 
pose ; but, from the thickness of the basin, and 
the small surface on which the outward air 
could act, both rice and tapioca were too hot 
when the egg was added. To complete the 
list of errorsy she beat up two eggs together, 
instead of separately, and then hastily divided 
the whole quantity by her eye between the 



of Good Cookery. 275 



two puddings, by which means the unfortunate 
tapioca got much less than its neighbour, and 
the rice pudding (which may taste very good 
without any egg at all) had the largest quantity 
of what it least required, whilst the tapioca 
(which I never succeeded in making palatable 
without an egg) had not half its proper share ! 
There was no fault in the temperature of the 
oven, because Gwenllian had tested it with 
her own hand, which, by long experience and 
practice, serves her as well as a thermometer ; 
also the poor novice had unfortunately not 
observed or remembered that water was to be 
poured into the baking tin, which caused the 
puddings to be burnt at the bottom before they 
were browned at the top ; and therefore, be- 
tween omissions and commissions^ we have had 
two puddings composed of excellent materials 
rendered uneatable/* 

The Traveller admitted that the experiment 
had not answered as he had expected, and 
begged to know how the Hermit would have 
recommended the teaching to be carried on, 
had he directed the widows ? 

T 2 



276 The First Principles 

-~^ ■ — — -■■-■-- — __ ■ _ 

" I should/' replied his host, " have taken 
care that each act in the progress of the 
pudding was most carefully explained; the 
reason being given vv^hy such a thing was 
done, and the consequences which would result 
if it was omitted, and it is these explanations, 
at the moment that the process of cooking is 
proceeding under the eye, which I find are so 
seldom given, and the ability to give them 
makes the great difference between one teacher 
and another, although they may both be equally 
clever in execution, — but there is a mechanical 
power, possessed by the majority, of executing 
a certain routine once learned, which is much 
more common than ability to instruct by the 
addition of clear explanations, which arc 
most necessary and important for the pupil ; 
and were the observing and reasoning powers 
more exercised in the higher classes ^ they 
would be less ignorant of the practical arts 
of domestic management, and better teachers^ 
and those under them would be better 
able to instruct in their turn ; but now, 
from your account, all is sotto sopra! the 



oj Good Cookery. 277 

servants know very little, and the ladies nothing 
at all ! " 

The Traveller vehemently denied that he 
had ever uttered such a libel on the accom- 
plished females of the nineteenth century ; but 
the Hermit stoutly maintained that if he had 
not uttered those words, he had by facts clearly 
demonstrated that such was the rule, although, 
of course, there was no rule without some 
exceptions. 

The time had now arrived for the great 
event to take place of the Hermit's departure 
to London with his wandering friend; and as 
the principal object of this work has been to 
instil some knowledge of " the Real Principles 
of Good Cookery," and to awaken a desire in 
the higher orders to instruct themselves in 
domestic management (that most important 
branch of duty), it will not be inappropriate to 
conclude with a description of the contents of 
the Hermit's travelling baskets, one of which 
he insisted upon providing for his friend, the 
other being intended for himself. The pre- 
paration of these wayside provisions were the 



278 T^he First Principles 

last practical lessons in cookery that the Traveller 
received in the Cell of St. Cover. 

The consternation of the Welsh widows may 
be imagined when they heard that their master 
was going from home, the possibility of which 
they could hardly realize ; but when informed 
that he was going to leave Wales for three 
months, and, above all, that he was going 
to London, they uttered lamentations, which 
proved that they considered his life was not 
only in danger, but his death was certain ; and 
** O anwyl, anwyl ! Beth a wnawn ni ! " " Y 
Meudwy Bonheddig anwyl fe fydd yn sicr o 
farw ! Gwae ninnau ! *' * was uttered, until the 
Traveller had heard these sentences so often 
that the night before his departure, he had a 
terrible dream. 

It required four- and- twenty hours before 
their agitation had subsided sufficiently to 
enable them to remember or execute anything 
that they were told to do, but, at last, a quiet 
melancholy succeeded to violent and demon- 

♦ " Oh, dear, dear, what shall we do ? " " The dear Hermit 
gentleman will be sure to die. Woe to us ! '* 



of Good Cookery. 279 

strative grief, and they began the preparations 
for the roadside refreshments with much the 
same feelings that they would have had if they 
had been called upon to cook for the Hermit's 
funeral. 

Two plump fowls were roasted, having been 
basted with fresh mutton suet, to the last twist 
of the woollen yarn. They were then enclosed 
in the inner tin of a Ffwrn-fach — the Ffwrn- 
fach itself was filled with cold water from the 
spring — and, after the second lid was put on, 
it was sunk altogether in the well. 

When the Traveller saw this done, he ex- 
claimed : ** This is beyond my comprehension. 
I have seen and heard a great deal of warm water 
to surround meat; but why hot chickens are 
to be immersed in a vessel surrounded by cold 
spring • water, and then sunk in a cold well, 
I cannot imagine." 

" The principle," said the Hermit, " is ex- 
actly the same as that upon which some cooks 
would plunge a ham, as soon as boiled, into 
a pail of iced water. The object is to chill, as 
quickly as possible, that which is to be eaten 



28o The First Principles 

cold ; by which means the juices, which would 
otherwise run off or evaporate, are staunched 
up within the flesh ; and I am anxious that these 
chickens, provided for our journey, should be as 
juicy and retain as much flavour as possible." 

Three hours afterwards, the chickens were 
taken out. A tongue also was boiled, and 
placed upon a dish. Oranges were then cut 
across the centre, the core taken out with a 
sharp penknife, the pulp cut round and sepa- 
rated from the rind without any adhesion of 
the white skin ; the pulp was put into a basin 
in lumps, and the juice which remained in the 
halves of the oranges was squeezed upon it ; 
sugar was sprinkled upon them, and boiling water 
added, in the proportion of two tablespoonfuls 
to each orange. They were then put aside till 
the next day, which was to be the morning of 
departure. 

• In the course of the previous day, the widows 
were very busily engaged in making biscuits * 
and the rock cakes -f- (the original recipe for 

♦ See Appendix No. XLIV. 
t See Appendix No. XLV. 



of Good Cookery . 281 

which the Hermit had received direct from 
Margaret Cavendish Harley, Duchess of Port- 
land), and in carefully washing and re-washing 
oIq fashioned bottles cased in leather, with glass 
stoppers, and two little glass preserving pots also 
with glass stoppers. The loaves of rice bread,* 
for the sandwiches, were baked the previous 
night, as they were better for that purpose 
when they were a day old. 

The baskets to hold the travelling fare were 
those always used by the Hermit for his moun- 
tain expeditions^ and were made by his Welsh 
labourers. They were square, like a box, with 
a lid and loop of basket-work, and divisions 
in the inside, into which fitted two small tin 
boxes, two bottles, one glass preserving-pot, 
two wooden spoons, and a fork (made by the 
Welsh peasants, who have a remarkable talent 
for carving). 

All being so far ready, the host and the Tra- 
veller retired to rest; when the latter had a 
most distressing dream, which he felt he never 
could forget, and which, no doubt, was to be 

* See Appendix No. XLVI. 



282 The First Principles 

attributed to his emotions on the eve of de- 
parture, combined with the exclamations of the 
widows, above alluded to. He dreamt that he 
had been handed over by the Hermit to the 
four Welsh widows, who were to make him 
into a ^* poten^' — a word which he perfectly- 
understood to mean " pudding." He thought 
that he struggled in vain to get out of their 
hands, and that, in reply to his entreaties, they 
said nothing but •* Paid ag ofni ! " " Paid ag 
ofni ! " * and that, while he was being cut into 
mincemeat, the Hermit, with a most sardonic 
expression, informed him that if, after being 
boiled three hours in a basin, he could talk 
Welsh, he would, by his art, restore him to 
his own proper form ; but that he had eaten 
loo long of the best produce of Cambria not to 
make the small return of speaking the language 
of those who had provided him with so many 
good things ; and that, if he failed to give this 
small token of his gratitude, he should remain 
a pudding till he was eaten up by wild dogs. 
After this frightful dream, he lost all sensation 



• i( 



Do not fear." " Do not fear." 



of Good Cookery. 283 



(even in sleep), until, believing he v^as awake, 
but the dream still continuing, he uttered so 
vehemently, *' O anwyl, anwyl, beth a wnaf fi ? ** 
*' Beth a wnaf fi ? " * — at the same moment 
believing that he was a puddings and had 
jumped out of the pot upon the floor of the 
Hermit's kitchen — that he was awakened by 
the violence with which he really had leaped 
out of his bed, and he lay upon the floor some 
time before he could understand that he was 
not a puddings that he had not been boiledy and 
that he was not master of the Welsh language ^ — 
although, in truth, he had been so terrified by 
the nightmare, that, like Sir Walter Scott's 
monkj-f* he could not, for some time, repeat 
anything but the widows' Welsh lamentations, 
which were engraven on his memory. At 
length, however, he recovered, and was able to 
dress himself) and go down to breakfast. 

It was reserved for the last hour before 
starting to cut or pull the cold chicken meat 



# " What shaU I do 1" " What shall I do 1" 
t The Monk sings the song of the Water Kelpie. See The 
Monastery^ vol. i. p. 84. 



i 



284 ^he First Principles 

into delicate small pointed pieces taken from 
the breasts, and which were then laid in a tin 
box, which had previously been lined with 
white paper, each morsel being slightly 
sprinkled with salt. In the other tin box 
were sandwiches made of the pounded chicken 
meat and tongue, moistened with the cold jelly 
of a boiled chicken, which had been flavoured 
with appropriate herbs. The rice bread was 
cut into thin pieces of the proper size and shape 
for eight sandwiches, and pounded meat put 
between them. Two packets of four each filled 
each tin box. The oranges were then (pulp 
and juice) put into the glass preserving pots, the 
mouths of which were sufficiently wide to admit 
of a spoon. One bottle was filled with the 
water of the Ffynon Over, and the other was 
filled with cold tea, which had been made and 
sweetened the previous night, and the vessel 
in which it was contained was put to stand in 
the well till the morning, when it received the 
proper proportion of cold scalded {not clotted) 
cream. The centre compartment had also 
space for narrow strips of rice bread, in- 



of Good Cookery. 285 



tended to cat with the chicken; likewise for 
the plain biscuits and the rock cakes ; also 
plums and pears. Both baskets were provided 
alike. 

At length the Traveller's steed and the 
Hermit's pony appeared before the cell with 
four or five Welsh mountaineers, all of whom 
were called Bechgyn,'* although the youngest 
had long before seen fifty years, and each of 
whom insisted upon seeing their beloved master 
to the end of his ride and the beginning of his 
perils, and each expecting to have the sole 
charge of the much-valued pony named Cymro, 
which, next to the Hermit himself, was the 
object of their care. 

It was thirty-five miles to the nearest 
station, and although the Hermit would not 
show the slightest fear, having once given his 
word not only to accompany his guest, but to 
travel by railroad, that he might see it and 
judge of it for himself, yet he shuddered in-- 
wardly when he thought of a mode of convey- 
ance, which, from description, appeared better 

* Boys, 



286 The First Principles 



suited for spirits of the lower regions than for 
those above ground. 

Slowly and solemnly the steed and the pony 
were mounted. Tears were in the eyes of the 
widows and the Bechgyn ; melancholy resolve 
on the countenance of the Hermit ; and sorrow- 
ful regret in the demeanour of the Traveller ! 

They were to stop, at the end of eighteen 
miles, by the side of a clear stream, under an 
ash tree, well known to the Hermit and his 
attendants, who carried bags of oatmeal for the 
horses, and said they could procure vessels in 
which to mix it for them from a cottage, as 
well as hay, should there not be sufficient 
pasturage. Here they were to remain three 
hours, and to refresh themselves with the 
contents of their baskets, the widows having, 
by the Hcrmit*s orders, provided each of the 
mountaineers with a costrel of Glasdwr,* bread 
and meat, and bread and cheese, with apples 
in their pockets. 

The time has now arrived when the Hermit 
and the Traveller must take their leave of the 

* Two parts of milk to three parts of water. 



of Good Cookery. 287 



" Gentle Reader," who must imagine them 
defiling through the wood that leads from the 
Cell of St. Gover, with the Welsh widows and 
their handmaidens in mute despair, whilst the 
Hermit's Welsh harper, who was seated by the 
ancient Well of Gover, struck the triple strings 
of his noble instrument, and extemporised an 
accompaniment to the following Druidic Triad, 
which he uttered in a plaintive recitative, but 
with a warning accent, as he watched the 
departure of his master till he could no longer 
be seen : — 

" Tri pheth a ddylai dyn ystyried : 

b'le daeth, b'le mae, 

1 b'le yn myned." 

Which being translated, signifies — 

" Three things a man ought to consider : 
Whence he comes^ where he iSy 
To what Jf lace he is going,^' 

For the satisfaction of those who may wish 
to hear of the safe arrival of the Hermit and 
his friend at the place of greatest danger^ it 
may be added, that the five faithful Welsh 
mountaineers returned the following evening, 



i 



288 First Principles of Good Cookery. 



with the pony Cymro, and informed the 
widows and all others^ that they had beheld 
the ** Meudwy Bonheddig " and his English 
guest go ofF in a flame of fire^ with a noise 
which deafened their ears, and a smell that 
they should never forget, and that no doubt he 
must come to a fearful end! 



^^^^^^^^^^m^^t^m&mi^m^^^^mmmmmmmmmmmmrm^^m^^mmatmm 



THE TRAVELLER'S NOTE BOOK. 



TO THE EDITOR OF A COUNTY PAPER. 

Letter shown by the Traveller to tfte Hermit from a 
Gentleman who wanted a Shirt 

Sir, — I beg to call your attention to the 
following distressing facts, for the truth of 
which I can vouch, having occurred to myself. 
For many years my respected grandmother was 
in the habit of presenting me with an annual 
stock of shirts, which she cut out and made 
with her own hands, my mother having died 
when I was an infant. I was thus happily 
well provided till past the age of thirty-one 
years, but my excellent grandmother being now 
defunct, and my shirts in a very dilapidated 
condition, I applied to the wife of a friend for 
the direction of any female who followed the 

u 



290 The Traveller's Note Book. 

occupation of a sempstress, as my wardrobe 
required renovation. I did not enter into 
further particulars, because experience had 
taught me, that although my grandmother 
(a gentlewoman of noble descent) no more 
scrupled to name the word shirt than to make 
a shirt, yet that the great improvements in 
education had rendered the ladies of the present 
generation too refined even to know that such 
a garment was ever worn, far less to name it. 
The lady to whom I applied gave me the 
address of a Mrs. Doolittle, residing in the 
next country town, about three miles distant. 
I inquired if there was no one nearer in any 
village, but I was informed there was not, and 
I accordingly sent for Mrs. Doolittle. When 
she arrived, I mentioned that I required a set 
of shirts, and that I would give a pattern which 
did not require alteration. I was rather sur- 
prised by the look I received from the very 
important-looking personage who had answered 
my summons, as she neither assented nor dis- 
sented, but stood staring, as if she had heard 
something alarming or insulting. I repeated 



l^he Traveller s Note Book. 291 

in other words what I before said, and added, 
" You understand^ I require a set of new shirts. 
You have been recommended to me, and here 
is the pattern. I wish you to purchase the 
linen for me, and to make the shirts as quickly 
as you can/* Upon this, she drew up with an 
air of inexpressible scorn, saying, " I think, sir, 
there must be some great mistake somewhere ; 
I never made such a thing in my life, sir, and 
never professed to do so." ** Why, are you 
not a sempstress ? or what do you call your- 
self? " " I go out occasionally to assist in 
trimming, and also take the higher branches 
at home." ** Well," rejoined I, *^ I thought 
people who did needlework were called semp- 
stresses.^* " I do not understand that name, 
sir ; I never heard it before ; I was educated 
in a very superior manner, sir." I here re- 
collected having heard my good grandmother 
say, that " the test of a needlewoman was 
making a shirt," and that any one who could 
make a fine shirt properly, was mistress of 
• plain needlework.* I therefore ventured to 

* If button-holes were included 
U 2 



292 The Traveller's Note Book. 

observe, that I had always understood that 
" shirt-making was the * highest branch ' of 
needlework ; " upon which Mrs. Doolittle re- 
plied, with a contemptuous gesture, that " that 
must have been very long ago, before she was 
born, as her governess, who taught all the modern 
branches of a first-rate education, never allowed 
such a garment to be mentioned in her pre- 
sence." By this time I had come to the 
conclusion that the longer this elegant pro- 
fessor of the ** higher branches ** remained in 
my presence, the worse the opinion we should 
form of each other! I therefore speedily 
wished her good morning, and applied to 
another lady to recommend somebody who 
would not be above undertaking the task of 
renovating my unfortunate wardrobe, as my 
requirements were pressing. To prevent tres- 
passing too much on your valuable space, I 
will shortly narrate that I have had no less than 
six persons recommended to me as needle- 
women, or sempstresses, or whatever their 
dignity allows them to be called, from three 
different towns in the same county, and that 



The Traveller's Note Book. 293 

there was not one that had ever made a shirt, 
though all had been brought up at various 
schools ; and the only result of my inquiries 
has been the disheartening knowledge, that it 
is impossible for me to obtain the services of 
any one who would undertake to. make a fine 
shirt, although the population of the above- 
mentioned towns averaged respectively 1 1 ,000, 
6,000, and 2,000, and I was actually informed 
that although, five years previously, the smallest 
and most unimportant of these towns had pos- 
sessed an admirable shirt-maker, who was also 
a schoolmistress, that she had been removed 
from her office, and had left the country, and 
a successor had been appointed, who could 
neither execute nor teach any manual arts, 
employments, or occupations, beyond what the 
wooden hook would accomplish, called by the 
French name of crochet^ and which (I was told), 
on account of the great expense of fine-coloured 
wools, was a much greater tax upon the parents, 
than any benefit to the scholars ! The person 
who gave me the above information with 
respect to the departed schoolmistress and 



294 ^^^ Travellers Note Book. 

shirt-maker^ lamented, as much as I did, the 
extinction of the art of making shirts, and added, 
that the very names of trades and callings were 
now changed, and that the elegant nonentities 
of the present day were not to be called school- 
mistresses y but " governesses ! " Under these 
unhappy circumstances, my only resource is to 
beg for the benefit of your columns, to make 
known my present requirements, in the hope, 
that if any female still exists who can make a 
shirt, that she will be so obliging as to indicate 
the fact by advertisement in your paper, ad- 
dressed to the gentleman in want of a shirt. I 
am quite prepared to pay very handsomely, if 
my pattern is exactly followed. 

I am. Sir, 
Your obedient, humble Servant, 

A Gentleman in Distress. 



The Traveller's Note Book. 295 



POOS LAWS. 

The Hermit recounted an anecdote in refer- 
ence to the effect of the Poor Laws as follows : 
— A poor man living on the side of the moun- 
tain about four miles distant died, after painful 
and lingering illness. He left a wife and two 
or three young children. It was the depth of 
winter, and the snow covered the ground. 
His wife inquired of the proper authority how 
she was to get a cofBn, and was informed that 
she must go to the relieving officer, who lived 
nearly eight miles off, during which time she 
must have left the children in the house, or 
gone out of her way to reach the dwelling of a 
neighbour, where she might probably have found 
protection for them during her absence. Four- 
teen or sixteen miles in the snow, under great 
distress of mind, would be considered a heavy 
infliction for a man under such circumstances ; 
but how much more for a woman ? who pos- 
sibly might not have found the relieving officer 
at home when she got to the end of her 
journey. In the present instance, the Hermit 



296 The Traveller's Note Book. 

said, that the wretched poor woman thought 
that he might befriend her, and consequendy she 
walked three miles in the snow to his cell (in- 
stead of eight), and obtained the poor boon she 
sought^ viz. the Hermit's order for a coffin to 
be made for her husband's remains^ with the 
risk of the parish refusing to pay for it had they 
been so disposed, because it was not com- 
manded by the relieving officer ! Several other 
facts were mentioned by the Hermit, as having 
occurred under his own knowledge and that of 
his friend, sufficient to cause my exclamation of 
" Are we in a Christian country ? " and " Are 
these acts in conformity with the law ? or 
punishable by the law ? " 

The Hermit believes that all these things are 
in conformity with the Poor Law Act, if so, 
why is such an Act suffered to exist without 
alteration and amendment ? It also appears that 
great cruelty can be legally perpetrated with 
regard to the removal of poor persons who, 
notwithstanding a life of industry and an old 
age of honesty and virtue, are unable from 
bodily infirmity to gain any longer a sufficiency 



T!he Traoeller's Note Book. 297 



for their own maintenance. The Hermit 
mentioned one among many pitiful cases which 
had been recounted to him by his rich and 
benevolent neighbour. It was that of a 
brother and sister who had always lived toge- 
ther, and, though the one was partially crippled 
and the other was weak, they had managed to 
earn their bread by their own exertions till they 
were far advanced in years, when they were 
necessitated to apply for parish relief. Upon 
inquiry, it appeared that they belonged to a 
parish more than one hundred miles distant, 
although they had resided for so many years in 
the locality where they had grown old, that 
they were completely naturalized to the spot. 
The parish authorities commenced a corre- 
spondence, when, after months of wrangling 
and delay, the distant parties decided that they 
would not grant any relief unless the two old 
people were sent to the workhouse more than 
a hundred miles off, and they were sent there ! 

It appears that the Welsh have such a horror 
of the workhouse, and are also naturally so very 
kind-hearted^ that numerous instances occur of 



298 The Travellers Note Book. 

peasants and their wives, who earn their daily 
bread by hard labour, with children of their 
own, have brought up other children who have 
been put out to nurse with them after their 
parents have died, or have been unable to pay 
anything for their maintenance, rather than 
surrender them to the parish to be placed in a 
workhouse. 

The Hermit has a horror of what is now 
called centralization. He says that the order of 
the Universe ought to teach mankind that every- 
thing is the centre of a small circle, and that it 
is contrary. to reason to suppose that human 
beings requiring various treatment, if collected 
together from various quarters in one place in a 
huge mass, can ever be properly cared for, 
managed, or attended. 

On being informed of the enormous build- 
ings now erected in towns for the purpose of 
receiving the poor from numerous parishes, he 
shuddered with horror at what he was convinced 
must necessarily be the dreadful results in various 
ways ; and nothing could persuade him that if 
each parish, or perhaps two parishes, had a 



7he traveller's Note Book. 299 



building appropriated for the reception of such 
persons as ought properly to be called ** pau- 
pers/* and if the remainder of the respectable 
industrious poor received such out-door relief as 
was proper under their various circumstances, 
that it would not only promote virtue and 
morality, but that it would render the per- 
petuation of great and longr-continued abuses 
impossible, which must constantly occur in the 
overgrown communities I described, called 
" Union Workhouses^*' where all were strangers to 
each other, and where every tie was severed that 
was calculated to preserve the best characteristics 
appertaining to human beings, or Christians. 

The Hermit described the Welsh workhouse 
that he recollected as existing in his own parish 
about half a century ago, which he then fre- 
quently visited. It was an old and spacious 
farm-house, situated on the edge of a wood by 
the side of a by-road, with a green before the 
door on which grew two large walnut trees. 
It was well supplied with running water, and it 
was selected as the workhouse for two parishes, 
the locality being convenient for both. It was 



300 The Travellet^s Note Book. 

kept by an old farmer and his wife, who were 
enabled to maintain two or three cows on the 
adjoining land ; and he well remembered the 
inmates of the establishment, of which he gave 
the following description : — On one of the 
hobs of the immense old-fashioned fire-place, 
which occupied a large portion of the side of 
the spacious kitchen, sat a man called Old 
Harry (yr hen Harri), who, from some injury, 
was unable to stand up, and could only move 
along the floor with his knees raised by means 
of his hands and feet. Old Harry was a most 
harmless individual, but he had outlived all his 
family, and was a proper object for admission 
into what was then a happy home for the inno- 
cent and really destitute poor. His pleasure 
was to be placed on the large stone hob in the 
recess of the chimney during cold weather, 
and to sit on the grass under the walnut trees 
in the warm weather. In the window of 
this kitchen, a Welsh woman of* about fifty 
spun black wool at a large wheel. She had 
been for some years in a melancholy and half 
stupified state of mind; she had no one to 



The Traveller's Note Book. 301 

maintain her, and had not sufficient, command 
of intellect to maintain herself, but as long as 
she was provided with wool she was perfectly 
happy, and would spin from morning till night 
at the large wheel, which gave her exercise as 
well as occupation, and which lightened the 
expense of her maintenance. A third member 
of this comfortable family was a crooked-look- 
ing, half-witted boy, called Billo. He might 
then have been thirty years of age, but every- 
body looked upon Billo as a child ; he was very 
short, but strong and honest, and he was 
allowed to go of errands for the neighbours, 
and carry small burdens, and assist the good 
man and his wife in the various proceedings of 
the farm. Billo was a proper object for parish 
maintenance, as he also was deficient in bodily 
and mental ability to earn his own bread, al- 
though he could help those who ministered to 
his wants in many ways. 

The Hermit added that he also recollected 
occasional additions, and a woman with little 
children, whose husband had run away from 
her, but she was not like a prisoner, — ^shc 



302 The Traveller^ Note Book. 



might have been supposed to have been a ser- 
vant of the farm, — cheerful and bustling, she 
took care of her own children, and was ready- 
to " lend a hand " to anything that was going 
on ; she was not separated forcibly from any 
of her family, but she was thankful to find a 
refuge within reach of her former home in the 
time of need ; and being near her friends, she 
was very soon provided for, and enabled to 
leave the workhouse for service, her relations 
assisting in the maintenance of her children. 

It now strikes me that the friends and relations 
of persons who are sent to the workhouse would 
exert themselves, in nine cases out of ten, for 
the liberation of those within its walls, were 
all workhouses within easy reach of their former 
homes and connexions. " Out of sight, out of 
mind," is a true saying. How few relations 
of those immured in a workhouse would^ or 
couldy go and see their friends, if ten, twenty, 
or thirty miles oflf! And how few would fail 
to do so, from the weight of public opinion^ {if 
not from affection), when each person in their 
own locality would know whether they had 



The Traveller's Note Book. 303 

taken any notice of their distressed friends or 
relatives, or not ! 

On this subject I am a convert to the Her- 
mit's theory of the benefit of small circles^ each 
centre of which ought to govern its own espe- 
cial native sphere, all being amenable to gene- 
ral laws; and I certainly read in the news- 
papers* of the present day enough to know 
that the workhouses are frequently, if not 
always, a frightful conglomeration of misfortune 
and misrule, generally accompanied by great 
cruelty. The management of such establish- 
ments can never properly be accomplished by 
any human beings (however great their talents, 
and however honest their intentions), without 
divisions and subdivisions, and the creation and 
multiplication of expensive departments now 

* The appalling disclosures in the Times of this year (1866), 
relative to the sufferings occasioned from the treatment of the 
sick poor in certain workhouses, had not transpired when the 
Traveller made this note ; these disclosures have since proved 
that the Hermit did not err in the direful anticipations he 
entertained of the consequences of the present monster system, 
the bare outline of which was described to him by his guest. 



304 ^he Traveller's Note Book. 

unknown ! but how much more natural, simple, 
easier^ and better would it be to let each several 
locality have the care of its own poor^ and thus 
increase the number of responsible individuals, 
and render available for the general good the 
natural interests which must be, more or less, 
awakened in the mind of each resident for the 
fate and treatment of his own neighbours, and 
which can only be secured by having workhouses 
on a very moderate, not a monster scale, calculated 
for the reception of the paupers of the place 
who have no moral claim to out-door relief, 
under the immediate and daily observation of 
some one or other of the residents of the locality. 
Doubtless the modern fallacy of supposing that 
the bigger anything is — ^whether monster build- 
ings, or monster meetings, or monster associa- 
tions — the better it must be, is one of the great 
mistakes of the present day, which time is 
constantly developing, and which the Hermit 
believes will appear more and more palpable as 
facts are brought to light, to illustrate the study 
of cause and effect At present, I could have 
told him, the aged and honest poor are con- 



^he Traveller's Note Book. 305 

tinually forced into distant Unions, although 
they only implore as much relief in money at 
home as their maintenance would cost when 
taken to the workhouse, but I did not tell him 
this, because I could not in any way attempt to 
defend a practice so totally unjustifiable, and 
which ought to be illegal. 



OATMEAL. 

The preparation of oatmeal is particularly 
well understood in Wales, as well as in Scot- 
land; but, by an extraordinary perversity, the 
kilns necessary for its preparation are becoming 
very scarce in the Principality, and in many 
districts of South Wales the people are begin- 
ning to suffer very much from the kilns not 
being kept up, or being appropriated to some 
other use. Next to bread and good water ^ oat- 
meal may be considered as one of the first 
necessaries of life to a rural population ; indeed, 
in some parts of Wales it still (as in Scotland) 
takes the place of bread in many instances ; and 
when this is not the case, its valuable and 



30 6 T^he Traveller's Note Book. 

nutritive properties, in sickness and in health, 
when it is converted into a variety of v^rhole- 
some and nourishing dishes* by the Welsh, 
render it to them almost a staff of life ; and 
yet, from the prevalent habit among the higher 
classes of ignoring or disregarding that vsrhich 
is in their power, many wealthy and philan- 
thropic individuals are perfectly unconscious 
that the art of preparing oatmeal in Wales may 
be lost, and in some districts is almost extinct, 
in consequence of the kiln buildings being 
otherwise used, while the proprietor is paying 
a high price for oatmeal from shops which 
obtain that necessary article from Scotland, the 
purchaser being totally unconscious that oat- 
meal could be made to perfection by his own 
Welsh tenants. 



The following amusing recipes for meagre 
dishes the Hermit allowed me to copy, after a 
conversation on the unwholesome nature and 
injurious effects of meagre cookery in general.-f 



• Siccan, Llymru, Uwd, &a t See p. 179. 



The Traveller's Note Book, 307 



DISH OF FROGS. 

Take the thighs, and fry them in clarified 
butter; then have slices of salt eel, watered, 
flayed, boned, boiled, and cold; slice them in 
thin slices, and season both with pepper, nut- 
meg, and ginger : lay butter on your paste, and 
lay a rank of frog and a rank of eel, some 
currans, gooseberries or grapes, raisins, pine- 
apple seeds, juyce of orange, sugar, and butter ; 
thus do three times, close up your dish, and, 
being baked, ice it. 

Make your paste of almond, milk, flour, butter, 
yolks of eggs, and sugar. 

In the foresaid dish you may add fryed onions, 
yolks of hard eggs, cheese-curds, almond-paste, 
and grated cheese. 



TO MAKE A DISH OF MARROW. 

Take the marrow of two or three marrow- 
bones ; cut it into pieces like great square dice, 
and put to it a penny manchet, grated fine, 
some slic't dates^ half a quartern of currans, 

X 2 



3o8 The Traveller's Note Book. 



a little cream, roasted wardens, pippins, or 
quinces, slic*t, and two or three yolks of raw 
eggs; season them with cinamon, ginger, and 
sugar^ and mingle all together. 



DISH OF EGGS. 

Take the yolks of twenty- four eggs, and 
strain them with cinamon, sugar, and salt; 
then put melted butter to them, some fine 
minced pippins, and minced citron : put it on 
your dish of paste, and put slices of citron 
round about it ; bar it with pufl?" paste, and the 
bottom also, or short paste in the bottom. 



TO MAKE A DISH OF CURDS. 

Take some very tender curds; wring the 
whey from them very well ; then put to them 
two raw eggs, currans, sweet butter, rose-water, 
cinamon, sugar, and mingle all together ; then 
make a fine paste with flour, yolks of eggs, 
rose-water and other water, sugar, safifron, and 



I'he Traveller's Note Book. 309 

butter^ wrought up cold : bake it either in this 
paste or in puBF-paste ; being baked, ice it with 
rose-water, sugar, and butter.* 

The above recipes were extracted from a 
very curious work in the possession of the 
Hermit, by the celebrated Robert May, who 
published his " Accomplisht Cook ; or, the Art 
and Mystery of Cookery. Dedicated to the 
Right Honourable my Lord Mountague, my 
Lord Lumley, my Lord Dormer, and the Right 
Worshipful Sir Kenelme Digby, so well known 
to this nation for their admired hospitalities." 
And in the Preface he says, that he values the 
** discharge of his own conscience in doing 
good '* above all the malice of those who 
'^ make it their business to hide their candle 
under a bushel ; " and he makes a solemn pro- 
test that he ** has not concealed any material 
secret *' of which he became possessed in fifty- 
five years' experience. He published his work 
in the year 1 67 1 . 

* The digestive organs 200 years ago must have been yery 
much stronger than in 1866, and did much credit to early hours 
air, and exercise. 



3 1 o ^he traveller's Note Book, 



He was succeeded by William Rabisha, who 
published his "Cookery Dissected" in 1673, 
and dedicated his book to " Her Highness the 
illustrious Duchess of Richmond and Lenox, 
Her Highness the Duchess of Buckingham, 
Her Grace the Most Honourable renowned and 
singular good lady Lady Jane Lane, the Right 
Honourable good and virtuous Lady Mary 
Tufton, and the Hon. virtuous and good Lady 
Agnes Walker ; ** and, among many wonderful 
compounds, both meagre, sweet, and savoury, 
the following, is entitled ** To Potch a Dish of 
Eggs for a Weak Stomach^^ and gives an idea 
of lighter lenten fare ! 

TO POTCH A DISH OF EGGS FOR A 
WEAK STOMACH. 

A handful of good sorrel beaten in a mortar, 
strained with the juice of a lemon and vinegar; 
put to it sugar and nutmeg ; take sippets, hard- 
ened upon a gridiron ; lay them on the bottom 
of your dish, put on them a little strong broth 
and a spoonful of drawn butter; then pour in 
your sorrel, and set it on a great heap of coals. 



The Traveller's Note Book. 3 1 1 



Your eggs, being potched in a little water and 
salt, take them up, drain from the water, and 
lay them on your sippets ; so cover them, and 
send them suddenly away. Your sauce must 
never be hotter on the fire than that you may 
eat it without cooling again ; if you do, it will 
change the colour of your sorrel, and give your 
lemon a bad taste. 

The following lines from Rabisha's work it 
ought to be the ambition of every good cook in 
the present century to deserve : — 



ii 



To show the nearest way 



To inform the lowest cook how she may dress 
And make the meanest meat the highest mess ; 
To please the fancy of the daintiest dame, 
And suit her palate, that she praise the same." 



LUNCHEON. 

I LATELY maintained a fierce argument with 
the Hermit on the word ** Luncheon/' which I 
said was often called " Lunch.'* The Hermit 
insisted upon it that no educated person in 
refined society could possibly talk of ** Lunch/' 



1 



312 TAe Traveller's Note Boot. 

or ** Lunching/* but that they must always say 
^' Luncheon/' I assured him that I had heard 
persons who, from their birth and rank in life, 
might be supposed to belong to refined society, 
speak of ** Lunch " instead of " Luncheon,' and 
of '* Lunching " instead of " eating Luncheon,^* 
and who said, " I never Lunch,'* instead of ** / 
never eat Luncheon.'^ My good host, how- 
ever, maintained that the origin of the word 
was from " clutch " or " clunch," the meaning 
of which was a handful, in contradistinction 
to a full meal — a small quantity — to appease 
hunger when there was no time to sit down to 
the table ; and whether he is right or wrong, I 
do not pronounce, but it was impossible to help 
laughing when he said, " How would it be pos- 
sible for a refined gendeman when he means to 
imply that he has eaten a small quantity of 
food in the forenoon^ to exclaim, */ clutched,' 
which," (added he,) " he might just as well say 
as * / lunched.' Johnson himself quoted Gay as 

authority for the word ' Luncheon' " 

« 

" I sliced the luncheon from the barley loaf; 
With crumbled bread I thickened well the mess." 



• 4 



TJie Traveller's Note Book. 3 1 3 



A RAINY DAY. 

A LONG conversation upon the waste and mis- 
management of the present age. The Hermit 
amused himself with making a calculation^ 
founded upon the account I had given him,* of 
the number of extra meals and variety of food 
which it was the fashion to devour in the 
present day ; and, according to this statement, he 
said that the overplus of food, beyond what was 
required for health, taken by one individual, 
would, in one day, be sufficient to maintain one 
person and a half, giving as much as nature re- 
quired for health : consequently, in each seven 
days more than ten human beings might be fed 
with the extra quantity that is now frequently 
taken by one to the detriment of his own con- 
stitution. This calculation was made without 
reference to the expense of various wines con- 
sumed by any one individual in the course of 
the week; as the Hermit drank nothing but 
water himself, he could not enter upon the 
latter point, and I was determined not to assist 

_ _ • 

* Page 187. 



3 f 4 The Traveller's Note Book. 

him, indeed, I half repented having given him 
the details I had already done with regard to 
eating; but had I supplied him with data 
upon which to base a calculation of the num- 
bers that might be fed for the value of the 
quantity of wines which are drunk to the injury 
of health and the perpetuation of gout, I feared 
that he would make out so frighful a balance 
that it would disturb my mind, and I should 
not be able to sleep at night. I have hitherto 
taken care not to mention the modern practice 
of smoking to the Hermit, so very destructive 
to health ; but I hardly suppose my host would 
believe me, if I gave details on this subject. 



CONVERSATION WITH THE HERMIT, 

On the Evils of Artificial Fattening of Cattle, to which he was 

violently opposed* 

On referring to the above memorandum, I 
recollect that the Hermit's objections above 
recorded were expressed long before l\\t out- 
break of the Cattle Plague, since which time 

♦ See ^ 204. 



The Traveller's Note Book. 3 1 5 

I have extracted the following passages from 
the pen of a gentleman * who was qualified, 
surgically and medically, to pronounce upon 
the actual consequences, as proved by his pro- 
fessional examination of the wretched animals, 
which were condemned to suffering and disease, 
and were in that state pronounced to be first- 
rate specimens of an art, creditable to science, 
and to be encouraged for the good of mankind, 
these poor diseased creatures being afterwards 
sold for food! A calculation ot the money 
and time wasted to produce the diseased meat 
of each of the prize specimens described in the 
following paragraphs, would supply a singular 
balance 1 And what is the result ? The Cattle 
Plague ! And who can say that much disease 
is not produced in human beings (if not the 
cholera itself) by feeding upon such flesh ? 

** Certain bodily wants, when ill-suppressed, 
are soon discovered. The air we breathe may 
contaminate, but we can often smell, and 
thereby avoid, an impure atmosphere. Our 

* On the evil results of over-feeding catUe. By Frederick 
J. Gant, M.R.C.S. &c. &a 



3 r 6 l^he Traveller's Note Book. 

clothing may be insufficient^ but the wintry 
wind will soon warn us of this deficiency; a 
bilious head-ache instinctively prompts more 
active exercise^ while fatigue suggests the ne- 
cessity of repose. Air, temperature, exercise, 
and sleep are positive hygienic requirements, 
which severally proclaim their own demand 
when eifective, and thus the tide of life flows 
smoothly on, each bodily want being wisely 
suggested by an appropriate, and almost un- 
erring instinctive feeling. But it is otherwise 
with Food. True it i«, that we eat when 
hungry, but this sensation does not prove an 
infallible guide in our choice of food, still less 
a criterion of its nutritive quality. 

** When visiting the prize animals and others, 
lately exhibited at the Baker Street Bazaar, 
I took notes of my observations. One Devon 
cow looked very ill, and laid her head and neck 
flat on the ground, like a greyhound. I pointed 
out these animals to a man who was drawing 
water, and I asked him if their condition was 
one of common occurrence. He said, ^I 



T^he Traveller's Note Book. 3 1 7 

knows nothing of them beasties, in p'ticler, 
but it*s the case with many on 'cm — I knows 
that/ 

'* I passed on to the pigs. A pen of three 
pigs happened to be placed in a favourable 
light for observation, and I particularly noticed 
their condition. They lay helplessly on their 
sides, with their noses propped up against each 
other's backs, as if endeavouring to breathe 
more easily; but their respiration was loud, 
suffocating, and at long intervals. Then you 
heard a short, catching snore, which shook the 
whole body of the animal, and passed, with 
the motion of a wave, over its fat surface, 
which, ,moreover, felt the cold. I thought 
how much the heart, under such circumstances, 
must be labouring to propel the blood through 
the lungs, and throughout the body I The gold 
medal pigs were in a similar condition — if any- 
thing, worse, for they snored and gasped for 
breath, their mouths being opened, as well as 
their nostrils dilated, at each inspiration ; yet 
these animals, only twelve months and ten days 
old, were marked ' improved Chilton breed/ 



3 1 8 T'he Traveller's Note Book. 



Three pigs, of the black breed, were in a 
similar state at seven months, three weeks, and 
five days ; yet such animals the judges * highly 
commend. * 

** When I contrasted the enormous bulk of 
each animal with the small period in which 
so much fat^ or fleshy had been produced, I 
naturally indulged in a physiological reflection 
on the high-pressure work against time, which 
certain vital internal organs, as the stomach, 
liver, heart, and lungs, must have undergone 
at a very early age. Now, with the best 
method of rearing cattle, or that which is 
most conducive to their health, the medical 
profession are only indirectly concerned; but 
of the dietetic value of animals so reared for 
food, the profession are, or should be, the 
immediate overseers and arbitrators, 

*' These were those to which the judges had 
awarded the highest prizes, as specimens of 
healthy rearing and feeding — viz., the gold and 
silver medal prize bullocks, heifers, pigs, and 
sheep (which remained in London). 



T^he traveller's Note Book. 3 1 9 

» — — 

•* This substitution of fat for muscle is proved 
by the microscope to have ensued. For when 
thus examined, the muscular fibres no longer 
presented their characteristic cross markings, 
but the fibrillae within the fibres were entirely 
broken up, and replaced by bright globules of 
oily fat. Each fibre contains an abundance of 
fat particles instead of fibrillse within the fibre. 
The healthy structure of the heart had, there- 
fore, thoroughly degenerated by the substitution 
oi fat for muscle. 

** Fortunately, the thin lining membrane {en- 
docardium) had not been ruptured, or the animal 
would have died instantly. This might have hap- 
pened at any moment, on the slightest exertion. 

" Thisanimaly under three years of age ^ weighed 
upwards of two hundred stone^ and was eating 
twenty-one pounds of oil-cake a day^ besides other 
food. 

** Within about a foot of the termination of 
the large bowel was a putty-like mass, one inch 



320 The Traveller's Note Book. 

and a half thick and about one foot long, and 
which partially surrounded the intestine. The 
mass consisted, apparently, of scrofulous matter. 

" The fat referred to may itself be regarded as 
the superfluous food with which the animal 
had been gorged, 

'^ The diseased condition thus produced may 
be termed conversion into fat, as expressive of 
the apparent change which has ensued ; but, on 
closer examination with the microscope, I 
would ascribe the change itself to the substitu^' 
tion of fat (in the process of nutrition), for the 
proper structural elements — fibrillae — of muscle, 
and not to the actual transformation of those 
elements into fat. 

** We should, therefore, expect in vain to re- 
plenish our own muscles by the use of such food, 
nor should animals thus overfed be regarded 
as prize specimens of rearing and feeding. 
The heart being converted into fat^ no longer 
retains its contractile power^ but beats feebly 



T^he Traveller's Note Book. 321 

and irregularly. The blood, therefore, now 
moves onward in a slow and feeble current. 
Hence the panting breathlessness due to stag- 
nation of blood in the lungs, which the heart 
labours (in vain) to remove, while the skin and 
extremities are cold : hence the stupid heavy- 
headed expression of a congested brain, and the 
blood-stained appearance of meat after death. 
The slightest exertion of an animal under such 
circumstances might suddenly prove fatal. Were 
a man in this condition to present himself at 
an insurance office, it would refuse to insure his 
life at any premium. Tet under similar circum- 
stances a sheep is awarded gold and silver medals y 
and its feeder a prize of 20 L I 

** Under the present system the public have no 
guarantee, and are not ensured the best if indeed 
the cheapest food. The bulky withers of a 
fat bullock are no criterion of health, and its 
flat tabular back may conceal the revolting 
ravages of disease. 

*' The flesh of animals which has been pro- 
duced by organs themselves diseased, is itself 

Y 



322 The Traveller's Note Book. 

also necessarily deteriorated^ and ought not to 
be regarded as prime samples of human food. 
These facts will be best understood by patho- 
logists, but they also come home to the under- 
standings, and certainly to the stomachs of the 
people. Nor can their feelings fail to respond 
to the claims of sympathy. The suffocating 
sighs of those fat pigs are an appeal to hu- 
manity. 

" If offence come out of truth, it were 
better that the offence come, than that the 
truth be concealed." 

Mem.* — Conversation with the Hermit about 
clipping horses, of which he had never heard. He 
was at a loss for the reasons which could have in- 
duced such an extraordinary proceeding. I would 
not tell him what I believed was the original 
cause, because it would have furnished him with 
another argument against the great progress of 
intellect in the present century, but I do believe 
that the real origin of clipping in the first in- 
stance was that horses might appear to be kept 

* Page 215. 



Tihe Traveller's Note Book. 323 



in what is called ** high condition/* although 
belonging to owners who could not afford such 
expense, but that the practice gained ground 
from the approval of the majority of those 
whose duty it was to clean horses, and whose 
labour was thereby much diminished, and 
specious arguments were made use of to per- 
suade masters that the animals themselves 
benefited by such a course of treatment, as the 
majority of masters possibly do not know how 
horses ought to be treated any better than the 
majority of mistresses of families (who have 
cooks) know how to instruct them to prepare 
food — but had I said this to the Hermit he 
would have asked me whether I considered 
that the stable management in Great Britain 
generally was more indicative of the improve- 
ment of human intelligence than the culinary 
department in the nineteenth century? In 
which case I must have answered *^ No," and 
subjected myself to additional mortification. 



Y 2 



324 ^he Traveller's Note Book. 



WATER-FOUNTAINS.* 

Mem. — Being fearful that I might have ex- 
aggerated the destitution of London with re- 
spect to water, I have, through a friend (while 
still in the cell of St. Gover) referred to docu- 
ments belonging to the Metropolitan Free 
Drinking Fountain Association, which was 
established in 1859, and I find that I might 
have said much more, although I should have 
only thereby confirmed the Hermit's opinion 
that the progress of science has completely out- 
run the progress of the cultivation of sense I 

There were no public drinking fountains in 
London till April, 1859. The water used in 
the metropolis amounts to one hundred millions 
of gallons, and, if formed into one reservoir, 
would form a lake seventy acres in extent, and 
six feet deep ; yet every drop of this enormous 
supply must be paid for to water-companies, 
who, although by mechanical means they force 
water into the houses, make no provision for 
the wants of the multitudes who traverse the 

* See page 224. 



T^he "Traveller's Note Book. 325 

streets, and who arc as much in want of a 
draught of water as the travellers of the 
desert. The resident poor suffer grievously in 
consequence of an intermittent supply of 
water, and the absence of free public street 
supplies ; and, although water-pipes are brought 
into the houses, it is turned on but once a day, 
seldom exceeding, and often for less than, half 
an hour ; and if they have any lack of vessels, or 
an accident occurs in spilling the water supplied 
during that short period, they must go without 
water till the next day, as it is illegal even to 
buy it from any but the companies — ^^rsons giving 
water ^ or selling it may be prosecuted ! and every 
drop of water caught by the poor during the 
precious half hour that it is supplied after being 
kept in the foetid atmosphere of a crowded 
dwelling, soon becomes poisonous^ and water, 
which should be a preservative to life and 
health, is an actual source of fever and death. 
Under such circumstances, the pumps of Lon- 
don were the only places where many of the 
poor could obtain water to drink, which were 
few in number, and at great distances from 



326 7he Traveller's Note Book. 



each other, and in the investigation made of 
late years as to the cause of the epidemics 
which spread death and desolation in so many 
homes, the mischief was found to arise as fre-- 
quently from the water drunk as from the air 
breathed, and the London pump-water was 
declared to be so impregnated with impure 
matter from the impurities of foul surrounding 
soil, that it was almost universally condemned. 
The Medical Officer of Health for the city of 
London * stated, that of thirty-six pumps in the 
City, scarcely one supplied water fit to drink, 
and the poor were left to choose between 
the poisonous water in the pumps, and the 
poisonous water stored up in their own tanks 
and cisterns. 

The only remedy was public free drinking 
fountains, first established in London by Mr. 
Samuel Gurney, by whom the first drinking 
fountain was erected on Snow Hill in 1859, at 
which as many as five thousand people were 
known to drink in one day. Since 1859, 
eighty-nine drinking fountains, five cattle 
troughs, and some dog troughs have been 

♦ Dr. Letheby. 



T^he traveller's Note Book. 327 

opened by the Society, in addition to which 
between thirty and forty have been erected in 
London by private benevolence ; and it is esti- 
mated in London alone more than three hundred 
thousand people drink daily at these fountains. 
But yet there are whole parishes still without a 
single fountain^ and the sufferings that a vast 
multitude must still experience from thirsty and 
the horrible results to thousands now ruined in 
body and soul, occupants of lunatic asylums and 
prisons^ whose state has been caused by being 
forced into public houses and gin palaces to 
supply their daily thirsty is dreadful to contem- 
plate in a Christian country, whilst the suffer- 
ings of the poor cattle, sheep, and dogs, are 
intolerable from the want of supplies of 
drinking troughs for animals ; and the subscrip- 
tions of charitable individuals are not sufficient 
to do a tithe of the work which is still re- 
quired to place fresh water within the reach of 
all the poor in London, to whom, as well as to 
every other class, the sight of running water is 
in itself a gratification. Running water also 
serves to clear away any obstruction which 



328 The Traveller's Note Book. 

might otherwise choke up the overflow pipe, 
and any supply of water which could only be 
obtained by turning a cock would not answer 
the purpose required. 

A force of police is required specially to 
protect the fountains, for, in the present cor- 
rupt and demoralized state of society, constant 
supervision is necessary to preserve them from 
injury. Drunken men are their determined 
enemies, cups are stolen and taken away, sticks 
are thrust into the jet, and stones, pipe, rope, 
buttons, and orange-peel are also frequently used 
to render them inconvenient or useless, and thus 
it has been found that fountains erected in 
London by private benevolence have been so 
injured that the charitable donors have found 
they must submit to the expense of keeping 
their fountains in order, or see their good in- 
tentions defeated. The fountains in the care of 
the Society are alone rendered a permanent 
blessing by the visits of their own officers of 
the Society, who regularly inspect them, report 
their condition, and have damages immediately 
repaired. 



The Traveller^ s Note Book. 329 

An interesting article by Dr. Wynter con- 
tains the whole history of the water supply 
of London, from the time when the metro- 
polis was interspersed with meadows, and sup- 
plied with water from its bournes, its viaducts, 
and its wells ; and when the Thames was 
a clear river, free from all the impurities that 
have now converted it into one great sewef\ 
until Peter Morris, the Dutchman, obtained a 
right from the Corporation of London to erect 
machinery for that purpose in 1580, after 
which Sir Hugh Middleton proposed to bring 
a new river into London, from the springs of 
Chadwell and Amwell, a distance of forty-two 
miles, when no forcing apparatus was made use 
of, which system continued till 1782, when 
water-pipes were carried underground in every 
direction, and forced up to the top stories, since 
which time eight water-companies supply the 
metropolis, and 

" Water, water, everywhere ; 
But not a drop to drink." 

When the Legislature forced all the water- 
companies supplying themselves from the 



330 T^he traveller's Note Book^ 

Thames, higher up the stream, it never an- 
ticipated the evils which are now apparent. 
The towns on the banks of the Thames above 
the highest sources from which any of the 
water-companies now obtain their supplies, 
have obtained permission to drain directly tnto 
the river y and, instead of going up the stream to 
get nearer theigjjire element, they are only 
meeting the refuse and drainage of these towns 
half-way. 

N.B. I dared not tell the Hermit that I had 
heacd before I ever saw him, that the favourite 
and fashionable theory now promulgated, for 
curing all the evils entailed by want of water 
in London, is to convey the pure element 
from the Bala Lake, in North Wales, into the 
metropolis, — of course without the slightest 
regard to the robbery of the Principality ^ or of 
the injury (to say nothing of the disfigurement) 
which would result to the inhabitants of that 
beautiful locality, and were the scheme not 
so very wild, were the expense not so very 
enormous, and were the distance not so very 
great, there would be a probability that it 



T^he Traveller's Note Book. 331 

might not be attempted ! but as it appears to 
involve every possible objection, there is cause 
for the greatest alarm, as the disposition of the 
present generation is to revel in the excitement 
of undertakings, M^hich are certain to ruin their 
projectors, and to materially injure a large por- 
tion of the rest of mankind. 

Dr. Wynter, however, has committed him- 
self to the opinion, that London may rival 
Glasgow, which is said to have the purest 
water in the world, without robbing poor 
Wales, or going to the enormous expense of 
bringing water from a Lake in the Principality 
to London, as water may be had of a pure 
quality, and in abundant supply, from the 
gathering grounds which supply the town of 
Farnham in Surrey. If this is the case, the 
Hermit might justly say, it is another proof of 
the proneness of the present age of education 
and science, to go a hundred miles out of the 
way, and to spend a thousand times more than 
is necessary to obtain what is, comparatively 
speaking, to be found close at hand, but which 
for that reason is not valued. 



332 The Traveller's Note Book. 

The curse of London is certainly want of 
water, and drunkenness ! How has this curse 
been brought upon London ? By the voluntary 
acts of mankind! by the want of reflection, and 
the consequent misapplication of mechanical 
talent, under the name of " Improvements^*' in 
the nineteenth century. 

It seems to me, since I have begun to thinks 
that there are several words which have been 
so long and continually used in the wrong sense, 
that people are in danger of forgetting their 
real signification, viz. the destruction of fine 
old churches, and the construction of modern 
paltry buildings on their site, is called ** Resto- 
ration ; " whilst the words ** Ignorance " or 
•* Barbarism," are now applied to those who 
have retained the knowledge transmitted by 
their ancestors, of the useful arts of every-day 
life. Sophistication is called education^ and a 
" superior education " implies the wilful neglect 
of instruction in all useful knowledge. 



T^he Traveller's Note Book. 333 

HOLLY— MISTLETOE— IVY.* 

In a conversation with the Hermit, in 
which I gave him some idea of Arboriculture 
(as at present practised) in many ** highways and 
hywaysy' especially as connected with Holly in 
hedges, I omitted to mention the barbarous 
and ignorant practice (where a standard holly 
has been preserved) of cutting all the branches 
off close to the stem, up to the top, where a few 
boughs only are permitted to remain, giving 
that beautiful tree exactly the appearance of a 
besom set up on end, and which disfigurement 
is incurable, because the holly-tree never puts 
out new branches when cut close to the stem. 

It is very strange that the propagation of the 
Mistletoe is not better understood — its 
beauty, independent of its medical properties,-!* 
as well as its traditional and historical interests, 
ought to cause its natural history to be more 
studied, and, consequently, better known ; 
but perhaps it is less extraordinary that this 

♦ Page 235. t See Appendix No. XLVII. 



334 ^^ Traveller's Note Book. 

should have been neglected than that the Ivy, 
which, in all its beautiful varieties, is more or 
less known in every part of Great Britain, 
should be the object of such universal persecu- 
tion. The Hermit mentioned a fact relating 
to the ivy, with which I was previously unac- 
quainted, and which I do not believe is generally 
known, although it is in the power of everybody 
to see and observe, viz., that when it attains a 
certain age, and is peculiarly ornamental to the 
tree on which it hangs, it ceases to throw out 
feelers; consequently, that the outcry that 
when ivy is old its stem must be cut through, 
or it will destroy the tree^ is one of the most 
remarkable hallucinations of the present age. 
When ivy is old, it ceases to be attached to the 
stem round which it is twisted, excepting by 
its folds, which are so completely loose from 
the stem of the tree that a hand may be fre- 
quently passed between the ivy and the tree, 
while the upper boughs are supported by 
festoons from branch to branch ; consequently, 
if the ivy is merely thinned sufficiently abcroe 
(when it becomes top-heavy), to prevent too 



. The Traveller's Note Book. 335 

great a weight upon the small boughs of the 
tree, it cannot in any way injure the tree ; and 
yet ivy, in the state above described, appears to 
be a favourite mark for the axe to sever. The 
Hermit pointed out to me several beautiful 
evergreen trees in the winter, which at a dis- 
tance I did not identify to be ivy, and I won- 
dered what bright and shining standard ever- 
greens thus enlivened his wood; but he ex- 
plained that these verdant objects were simply 
produced by planting ivy (or preserving it 
when wild) to grow up dead trees, which, 
being at length entirely covered, resembled 
standard evergreens of the most brilliant tint, 
I agree with the Hermit that a series of ex. 
periments might be made, with interesting and 
useful results, to ascertain at what age ivy 
ceases to adhere to the tree against which it 
grows, — also, the different characteristics of the 
various sorts of ivy. The Hermit is of opinion 
that the very diminutive wild ivy, which grows 
especially on walls, the stem of which seldom 
attains any bulk, and which forms a beautiful 
network all over the stones, is a great pre- 



336 T^he Traveller's Note Book. . 

scrvative to mason-work, and ought to be 
specially planted and encouraged against park- 
walls, in preference to the ivy, generally called 
Irish, which, however, is n6t believed to be 
indigenous in that country. 



ROADS, HEDGES, AND BANKS.* 

I HAVE had a conversation with the Hermit, on 
the present frequent «;/Vmanagement, and actual 
destruction of live fences, on the sides of high- 
ways and byways, but he was so anxious that I 
should return to my lessons in the culinary art, 
that he did not then give me time to tell him the 
anecdote I was about to narrate, of the discovery 
of a friend of mine, as to the immediate cause of 
the miserable system by which the banks, on the 
sides of roads, are so maltreated, that the hedges 
and roadside timber are frequently undermined ; 
but he afterwards requested me to write it 
down, and to illustrate it with my pencil,*!* and 
expressed his opinion that if I placed the narra- 
tive in my Note Book, with the sketches, it 

* See page 238. f See Plate VIIL 



T^he Traveller's Note Book. 337 



might some day be of service to those whose 
property is annually destroyed, while the public 
safety is endangered, but who either have not 
opened their eyes to see the evil done, or their 
understandings to prevent it. 

My friend was a landholder, of considerable 
property, who, having gone abroad for his 
health, had heard nothing of what had taken 
place in his own parish for more than twelve 
months, and on his return he could scarcely 
recognise the roads around his home. When 
he went away, there was fine roadside tim- 
ber, including splendid hollies, and substantial 
hedges, growing on firm and solid banks — 
when he returned, it appeared as if an invading 
army had devastated the whole of the environs. 
The fine and flourishing hedges were cut down 
to within a short distance of the top of the 
bank^ so as to remove every impediment to 
bipeds or quadrupeds going over it with ease. 
The previous winter had been very severe, and 
the snow had frozen on the small remnant of 
growing sprays left, so that few and sickly 
shoots had been brought forth in the summer. 



338 T^he Traveller's Note Book, 

which shoots had been quickly disposed of by 
the cattle and sheep, who, after they had eaten 
up the few leaves left, amused themselves with 
looking over into the road, and occasionally 
making a descent upon it, over the slight ob- 
stacles in their way, which an active boy could 
have cleared with one bound; and which the 
quadrupeds walked over, or burst through with 
the greatest ease * 

My friend was shocked and distressed by the 
general disfigurement, and the aspect of barren 
misery which such a prospect entailed; but 
being a person of intelligence, he soon dis- 
covered that it was not alone by wilful and ill- 
judged cutting down, that such a very rapid 
decadence of hedges had been produced, but 
that the banks had been cut away^ and pared 
down, and scooped into, in such a manner, that 
the natural nourishment of the hedges had been 
abstracted; and with regard to the hedge- 
timber, the excavation of the banks had been 
carried on to such an excess, that the trees had 
been undermined, and their roots cut through 
and exposed on the side next the road ; whilst 

Plate IX. 



The Traveller's Note Book. 339 

the banks in other places being sliced down per- 
pendicularly, the roots of the hedge-timber, as 
well as the live hedges, were not only visible to 
the naked eye, but protruded in some instances, 
horizontally, three or four inches beyond the 
surface of the soil. 

My friend followed up his investigations, 
until he made out that in his locality, the 
following causes had led to these most lament^ 
able results, and to injuries, which could not 
be remedied for many years, so as to restore or 
renew what had been so wantonly destroyed. 
The causes were as follows : — 

The farmers were annoyed by the unusual stir 
which had followed the appointment of new 
road surveyors ; and though they might not have 
been totally insensible to the disfigurement of 
their premises, were certainly more keenly aware 
of the time that had been occupied in cutting 
down their fences, according to the orders of 
the new officers, which officers seemed to have 
had but one idea, viz. that the more completely 
the hedges were destroyed, and the roads ren- 
dered unsightly, and destitute of shade or 

z 2 



340 ^^^ Traveller's Note Book. 

shelter, the greater would be the appearance 
of their own activity, and the greater credit 
they would obtain. Of the roads themselves, 
very little notice was taken, excepting to allow 
those employed upon them, to excavate gutters 
under the banks, and to scrape as much of the 
surface away from the sides of the road, as to 
render them so convex as to occasion frequent 
overturns, when vehicles passed each other in 
the dark, — in short to imitate the shape of a 
saucer turned upside down. 

My friend was convinced that some party or 
parties must have an especial motive for these 
latter proceedings, which were equally subver- 
sive of the interests of the public, and posi- 
tively injurious to private individuals, and he 
found that the explanation of the whole was 
as follows. The roads had long been neglected, 
but the hedges were excellent, though they 
might have been in some places a little too 
redundant, and required the moderate pruning 
of any sprays which protruded over the road 
so as to interfere with loaded corn-waggons. 
An outcry for mending the roads was raised in 



1^'he Traveller's Note Book. 341 

the neighbourhood. The new officials (" high" 
ways'' and ^* byway s"){o\xn6. the repairs needed 
(viz. picking up and stoning and making cofier 
gutters) troublesome, expensive, and tedious, 
and they thought that if they could produce a 
rapid transformation by means of cutting down 
hedges and making brooms of the roadside 
timber, this startling effect would, by the 
sudden change, impress the public with the 
reality of ** great improvement/* Moreover, 
as they ordered the farmers to be the execu- 
tioners of their own hedges, their destruc- 
tion involved no expense, and did not create 
any extra items in the books, — ^another advan- 
tage so far as the officials were concerned, but 
the misplaced industry of the race so called 
** road-menders," was not solely attributable to 
the supervisors, but also to the blindness of the 
farmers themselves to their own interests, 
having forgotten the old adage of " robbing 
Peter to pay Paul," as he discovered that the 
farmers often gave money or beer to the road- 
menders (employed by the Highway or By- 
way surveyors) for slicing down the banks next. 



342 The Traveller's Note Book. 

the road upon which their own hedges grew, by 
which they believed they were enriching them- 
selves by means of their enemy's troops^ whereas 
for every cartload of soil thus obtained by the 
loss of the banks, they entailed upon them- 
selves the expense of incessant mending and 
repairing hedges until quite dead^ and after- 
wards of keeping up a dead fence without any 
•• tenet '* * at hand. It was truly " killing the 
goose with the golden egg," for between the 
road-surveyors and road-menders and farmers^ 
the Irish notice might have been practically 
rivalled, and instead of the sign-post in the 
Emerald Isle, which announced that **The 
improvements on Market Hill rendered the roads 
impassable^* there might have been a notice, 
** Beware of bulls and other horned animals, as 
in consequence of the repair of the roads, all 
live fences have been destroyed and all banks 
carried away or undermined/* 

This anecdote, I fear, is not a solitary in- 
stance, nor is it exaggerated, but the Hermit 
laughed aloud when he heard it, and said, gaily, 

* A word used for the loppings of brushwood used to repair 
dead hedges. 



T!he Traveller's Note Book. 343 

** What can you expect but such improvements 
as long as a modern education is confined to 
the various arrangements of the letters of the 
alphabet, without thought or reflection or 
any regard to palpable facts under the eye? 
Do you suppose that if any three persons 
(or perhaps one) in your friend's neighbour- 
hood, had used either their eyes or under- 
standings, and resolutely and perseveringly op- 
posed this destructive mischief while in its 
course, on its true grounds — that it could not 
have been stopped ? Of course it could^ but it 
seems, by your own account, that half the 
world are blind, and the other half cripples, in 
mind at all events, if not in body." 



WALL-FLOWERS. 

I HAVE observed that the top of every wall 
near the Hermit's abode is surmounted by wall- 
flowers, the wild single sort, which are always 
the most fragrant, and among which an endless 
variety of tints are observable from the young 
plants which spring up spontaneously every 



344 ^^^ Traveller's Note Book. 

year, self-sown afresh, and the Hermit pointed 
out some of a violet colour, so that had I not 
examined the flowers, I should have believed 
they belonged to another species of plant ; but 
my host confessed that although wall-flowers 
grew wild in the locality of his abode, that he 
had saved the seeds and sown, not only the tops 
of allh\& own walls, but those of ^7/ his neigh- 
bours, which proceeding, he added, had pro- 
duced the greatest amount of innocent pleasure 
to the greatest number of persons at the 
smallest expense and trouble, of anything that 
he had ever done. He added that this idea 
had originated from reflecting upon the bounti- 
ful supplies of Providence with regard to wild 
flowers, of which, he was surprised to find from 
my statements that so little was thought in the 
present great world, and that many valuable 
species of plants were almost extinct from 
being persecuted as weeds, and he thought he 
would try the above experiment where at all 
events no one would be injured. Its success 
was beyond his expectations, and not only did 
he himself revel in the increased beauty and 



T^he Traveller's Note Book. 345 



fragrance of his wild wall-garden^ but he was 
gratified to find that his poorer neighbours, in 
fact every one who passed within sight or 
smell of these delightful flowers, expressed their 
gratification. A year or two afterwards he 
added the seeds of the red and yellow antir- 
hinum (or snapdragon), which had succeeded 
equally well, and added to the beauty of his 
wild wall garden without requiring any other 
nourishment than that bestowed by heaven. 



SHEEP'S MILK. 

I CONFESS that when the Hermit first told me 
that his best cheese owed its superiority to the 
addition of sheep's milk, I thought he was 
jesting; and although I saw the ewes being 
milked, and admired the Arcadian scene, I 
supposed, in my ignorance, that the milk was 
to feed the calves ! But I am now fully 
aware that the milk, of that valuable animal 
(the Welsh sheep), when mingled with that of 
the cow, produces cheese which is not only 



346 T'he Traveller's Note Book. 

excellent to eat new, but, when old, is more 
like Parmesan than anything else I ever tasted. 

The following are memoranda of facts 
relative to the Hermit's flock of Welsh 
sheep : — 

His lambs were sold when I was with 
him, about the beginning of July, at i/. each, 
being then from three to four months old. 
The ewes were then milked for three months* 
They were twenty-four in number, and they 
gave on an average twenty-four quarts a day. 
The proportions for cheese were one quart o 
ewe*s milk to five quarts of cow's milk, and six 
quarts of ewe's milk to thirty quarts of cow's 
milk made a cheese, weighing from twelve to 
fourteen pounds, of a most superior quality, 
with the sharpness so much admired in Par« 
mesan. Some of these ewes became so fat 
after they were dried in October, that when 
they were killed at Christmas, their weight 
was from fourteen to fifteen pounds a quarter, 
and the mutton of the veuy finest flavour. Of 
course there was no stall-feedings or confine-^ 
ment^ or quackery with artificial food, but only 



T^he Traveller's Note Book. 347 

pastures, often changed, and a good shed to 
run into at pleasure. The Hermit seldom or 
ever lost a lamb, but his sheep were supplied 
with chafF and cut roots in winter, when 
there was not sufficient grass to support them 
well. 

To give an idea of the profit of Welsh sheep 
when properly managed, I have made a note of 
the profits often of the Hermit's Welsh wethers, 
which were bought the latter end of March^ 
and sold the beginning of the following May ; 
their price was i/. ioj., and they were sold at 
2/. off turnips. It is also to be remembered 
that the Welsh wool is a very fine quality, and 
peculiarly well adapted for cloth as well as 
flannel, and those native Welsh cottagers who 
are still wise enough to make use of their wool- 
wheels, produce a home-spun cloth which, like 
the brocades of old, is so durable that they 
may almost be considered as heir-looms. The 
home-knit Welsh stockings of the black Welsh 
sheep's wool, are also very superior, and do not 
need any dye. I also observed that the Her- 
mit's flock was so tame that they followed the 



348 ^he TnroeUer's Note Book. 

shepherd about, and some of them would eat out 
of his hand, and on remarking that I had always 
been told the Welsh sheep were so wild that it 
was impossible to keep them within bounds, I 
was informed that there was not the slightest 
inconvenience in keeping Welsh sheep if they 
were properly managed^ but that if purchasers 
chose to go to Welsh fairs or markets, and 
bought sheep of different flocks, drove them to 
a strange place, and then took no precautions 
to reconcile them to their new locality, they 
would be very likely to find the next morning 
that their sheep had all disappeared in different 
directions ; but that if a flock was purchased 
that had been accustomed to live together, and 
if they were at first placed in a well-fenced 
pasturage with plenty to eat, they would soon 
become reconciled to the change, but when born 
and brought up on the same spot, they never 
wished to stray. In short, it appears that Welsh 
sheep exactly resemble the Scotch Highland 
cattle — if untamed, untended, uncared for, they 
are as unmanageable as wild beasts, but when 
domesticated they are mild, docile, and have no 



7he Traveller's Note Book. 349 

inclination to wander. The Welsh sheep cer- 
tainly is one of the most symmetrical animals I 
ever beheld^ and appears to particular advantage 
when blacky their arched necks, slender legs, 
small, compact, and well-proportioned, bodies, 
their long graceful tails, and picturesque curling 
horns, with their soft dark fleeces and brilliant 
dark eyes, would render them fit studies for 
Rosa Bonheur. 



GOATS. 

The Hermit's Welsh Goats were differently 
managed to those I have seen on the Conti- 
nent, and they are much handsomer animals 
than the foreign goats, with which I am 
acquainted. It is surprising that no specimen 
of the real Welsh goat is preserved in the 
Zoological Gardens. The Welsh goat being 
an aboriginal of Britain, ought to be specially 
protected, whereas it appears that the breed is 
likely to become extinct. The gallant regiment of 
the Welsh Fusiliers ought to protest against this 



350 The Traveller's Note Book. 

neglect cf an animal which has always been 
associated with Welsh regiments and the Prin- 
cipality of Wales. 

The Welsh goat has a very picturesque 
appearance, from its long coat and beautifully 
formed head. There are two species equally 
aboriginal ; one with magnificent horns, and 
the other without horns. The Hermit had 
both kinds, and he made a point of keeping as 
many as he could without horns, because they 
were not dangerous to the numerous peasant 
children who were continually playing with 
them. The Hermit said that his goats certainly 
had a predilection for the bark of young trees, 
and he therefore for many years had adopted 
the plan of tethering them. Each goat was 
provided with a leather collar and chain, one 
end of which was attached by a ring to the 
leather strap which forms the collar, and at the 
Other end there was a ring which was fastened 
to the ground by a sharp wooden hook. The 
goats seemed perfectly happy, their chains were 
very long, and they were moved twice or thrice 
a day. They were always brought into a large 



The Traveller's Note Book. 351 

yard at night, where they were left at perfect 
liberty, with an open shed where they had prun- 
ings of shrubs or vegetables or anything that was 
convenient, given them to eat. The she-goat 
gives when in full milking more than two quarts 
a day. The value of their milk for children 
and invalids has been admitted in all ages ; their 
milk makes excellent cheese alone, without the 
mixture of any other, and the whey is particu- 
larly nourishing and wholesome; as well as the 
curd which is produced a second time from 
boiling the whey. Kids are always marketable, 
being excellent food, and their skins very valu- 
able. 



FEATHERS. 



The Hermit had a great horror of a feather 
bed, which, he said, had been caused by obser- 
vation of the dreadful consequences to invalids, 
or those who were bedridden, of lying in a hot 
hollowy instead of having a flat cool elastic sur- 
face to repose upon, and likewise from know- 
ing that feathers caused, absorbed, and retained 



352 T^he Traveller's Note Book. 

perspiration, and consequently that under any 
circumstances they were the most objectionable 
material that could be selected, either for health 
or convenience, to be lain upon by rich or poor. 
Feathers, however, seemed to be very much 
valued in his establishment, and they were care- 
fully preserved and cured in the following 
manner. 

All the feathers were plucked into empty 
boxes, kept in an outer building, and it was the 
business of an aged widow, who had nothing 
to do with the culinary department^ as soon as 
her box was full, to put them into a large high 
tub which had previously been filled with lime- 
water, made by putting hot lime into another 
tub overnight, and filling it up with water, 
stirring it well, and leaving it to stand for 
twelve hours, after which, the lime being pre- 
cipitated to the bottom, the clear lime-water 
was poured off into the tub in which the 
feathers were to be immersed, and which being 
stirred round with a stick, were left to soak for 
four and twenty hours, at the end of which 
time the quill of every feather would have 



T^he traveller's Note Book. 353 

burst or cracked at the end in which the animal 
oil is contained 9 which has so offensive and 
unhealthy a smell in feathers imperfectly cured* 
The feathers were then taken out and put into 
common washing-tubs, where they were washed 
in warm water with a little soft soap, and then 
a sheet being spread over a large empty tub, 
the water with the feathers was ladled out into 
the sheet, and the water having drained away, 
the feathers were placed thinly upon a dry 
sheet, which was put upon a square frame (or 
cratch) composed of thin strips of wood nailed 
together, and jfixed on the top of four upright 
sticks in the sun (if in summer), or else sus- 
pended to four hooks fastened in the ceiling of 
the Hermit's kitchen in winter. As soon as 
the feathers were dry, they were taken away 
by the featherwife, who stripped them, cutting 
off the hard part of the quill with a pair of 
scissors, and by practice she was so expert, she 
almost mechanically placed in their respective 
heaps the finer and the coarser down, which at 
the end of the day she put in paper bags and 
hung along the beam of the ceiling. 

A A 



354 ^^^ Travellers Note Book. 

This occupation is particularly well adapted 
for old women^ who can sit near a iire^ and 
pursue this employment in the winter, as a 
means of subsistence. The Hermit had a little 
building on purpose, where there was a good 
fireplace, and a long beam for the feather-bags ; 
the contents of which were perfectly sweet, 
and as downy zxA fluffy ^ as if they had never 
been wetted. They were appropriated to 
making quilts for the winter and pillows. 

The Hermit said that it was not from the 
custom of his country he had learnt this, as he 
must admit that the Welsh were too fond of 
feather-beds ; but that although he did not 
wish to introduce the rolling balloons of the 
Germans, called Eider-down quilts, he thought 
that much gratitude was due to that nation, for 
the sensible idea of putting feathers over in- 
stead of under human beings in the winter. 

The Hermit's bedsteads had strips of wood 
at the bottom [no sacking) ^ on these were placed 
a very deep, but very soft mattress, filled with 
oat-straw, or beech-leaves, but not those dread- 
ful inventions, called by the French name of 



T^he Traveller's Note Book. 355 

" Palliasse^' although never seen in that 
country. These mattresses had two openings 
in the seams, by which means the straw or 
leaves could be levelled by the hand every day, 
and the contents could be changed every year, 
or oftener if necessary, in the course of half 
an hour. Over a mattress of this description, a 
wool mattress was placed, with a small quantity 
of horse-hair, mixed with the wool in the 
centre, to increase the firmness and elasticity. 
Feather pillows completed the equipment of 
the bedding ; and the upper, as well as the 
lower mattresses, were all made at home, and 
consequently easily re-made when necessary. 



MOLES. 



These little animals were special favourites 
of the Hermit, who said that they ought to be 
preserved for their utility, as well as protected 
for their harmlessness. He considered that 
their hillocks, of the finest earth, were an ex- 
cellent top-dressing for grass, and that half the 

A A 2 



356 The Traveller's Note Book. 

money spent in paying mole-catchers would be 
much more profitably bestowed in paying for 
spreading the mole-hills at dawn of day. I 
suggested that if moles were never destroyed, 
they might become so numerous as to get into 
his garden, and throw up their mounds over 
the young plants. He said, in that case they 
must be kept under and it would be only neces- 
sary to kill them in certain restricted localities, 
and these would be exceptional, but that the 
usual way of trapping them by letting them 
fall into deep empty boxes, out of which they 
could not crawl, and leaving them to die of 
famine, was a disgrace to humanity. The 
Hermit did not like my remark that their fur 
was as fine, if not finer, than sealskin, as he 
was afraid it might lead to a still further de- 
struction of his favourite little underground 
ploughmen, and insect - destroyers ; and, he 
added, if the undeniable talent for mechanics 
which characterised the present age had not 
yet invented a merciful method of putting 
these innocent little animals to death when no 
benefit was derived by their flesh or skins, that 



The Traveller's Note Booh 357 

nothing was to be expected but an increase of 
cruelty, if any profit was to be obtained from 
the latter. I informed him of the existence of 
the excellent Society for the *^ Prevention of 
Cruelty to Animals," and he asked me, ** how 
it was that all these years it had forgotten the 
moles ? '* which question I could not answer. 



BEES. 

The Hermit has a large establishment of 
bees, to which industrious insects he is not 
only particularly partial, but he has a sort of 
respect, I might almost say reverence^ for them, 
which is very general among his country- 
men, and which surprised me^ although he 
appeared to be as much surprised at my know- 
ing so little about their habits or their treatment ; 
but still I was able to inform him that there 
were in England many scientific Apiarians, who 
had made the treatment of bees their especial 
study. He asked me whether the study had led 
to a great increase of bee-keepers in England 



358 The Traveller s Note Book. 

generally, but I told him that the houses or 
boxes recommended for their abode were so 
very expensive, and required such very neat 
joiners* or cabinet-makers* work, that it was 
impossible to expect that any but those in 
affluent circumstances could keep bees ; this 
unfortunate remark has brought a storm down 
upon my devoted head, as I unfortunately 
furnished my host with a new argument in 
support of his opinion, that everything he hears 
from me proves that the present age is anything 
but an age of common sense. 

There is, however, no doubt that the 
Hermit*s bees thrive remarkably well, and that 
so far from their houses or their management 
being complicated or expensive, they are neither 
one nor the other; and for the benefit of my 
friends, I have made sketches of the hives,* 
which are all double, a small one at the top, 
and a large one at the bottom. It appears that 
the bees fill the top hive for the Hermit, and 
make further provision for themselves in the 

lower hive. 

. — f « 

* See Plate No. X. 




"■)() I live (oil its Mai). 6 inches hiuli, ami lo inches diamcle 
Lit, 1 1 inches diameter ; Flole. z iiiclic-. in circumference, 
jiner Hive (H-ithmit T'>|> Hive), II inches hi^rli, i6 ind 

(liiimeter, with Ho(i|i 3 inches viile. 
,mier and Upper Hive Ii)gelhcr, Moiliirei] ruiiiid Ihe Hoiip. 



1 Scoop. 
Jnf.' f.ir Kcepin;: llco' Wi.iti-r Kw 



Lviili Flat 



T^he traveller's Note Book. 359 

In the month of July, the Hermit takes off 
the top hive, which is generally full of the 
finest honeycomb. He replaces it with another 
the same size, leaving the contents of the lower 
hive undisturbed. The lower hive has a flat 
top, with an extra round of straw on the outer 
rim, within which the upper hive fits, and the 
hole in the centre of the top of the lower hive 
admits the bees from one to the other. There is 
a simple hoop of wood at the bottom of each 
of the lower hives, which the Hermit had neatly 
mortared round outside, so that there could be 
no egress into the hive, for any insects besides 
the bees themselves, who entered by one small 
aperture cut purposely in the hoop. Everything 
else was made of straw, worked in the usual 
beehive fashion, roll upon roll of straw, fastened 
together with strips of thin willow. 

The Hermit had fifty double hives. I re- 
quested one of the widows to weigh a small 
top \ii\t empty y and another of the same size 
full. The empty hive weighed one pound and 
a half; the full hives six pounds and a half; 
consequently at the rate of five pounds for the 



360 The Traveller's Note Book. 

owner's share, my host's bees produced an 
average of two hundred and fifty pounds of 
honeycomb, all filled with the purest honey, for 
there never is either bee-bread or young bees 
in the upper hives. I was informed that there 
is no absolute necessity for the round mat of 
straw which I observed under each of the top 
hives, though it was convenient and useful, as the 
hive wad- more easily lifted off without disturb- 
ing the bees below, in a manner which would 
not be the case if the upper hive rested only on 
the top of the lower hive, without having any 
independent platform; and as bees carefully 
fill up every crevice which admits light, or 
might give admission to insects, the upper 
hive is generally cemented round the edge to 
whatever it is placed upon, and therefore 
to take it off suddenly produces a great 
wrench and disturbance throughout the esta- 
blishment, entirely avoided by the little mat, 
which, having a hole in the middle answering 
to the hole in the top of the lower hive, 
admits the bees fi"om one to the other. When 
the bees swarmed, they were hived in the 



T^he Traveller's Note Book. 361 

lower hive, and the hole at the top had a cork 
in it ; but the evening after (if they had 
settled quietly) the cork was withdrawn, and 
the top hive with its mat put in its proper 
place, and as soon as the bees were thoroughly 
at home, the hoop of the lower hive was 
mortared round with a trowel, after dark, a 
piece of white paper, pricked full of holes, 
being placed over the entrance attached by four 
pins to the hoop (while the above operation 
was performed), to prevent the bees from 
coming out. 

The Hermit's bees were always fed from the 
month of November, till the spring blossoms 
rendered it no longer necessary. Their food 
was so inexpensive that the Hermit never per- 
mitted the question of their being sufficiently 
provided with their own honey to prevent their 
having the offer of supper every night, during 
the period above mentioned, as he said that, 
if they did not require it, they would not eat 
it, but it very seldom happened that they did 
not take the whole quantity, except in very 
hard frosts, when they are in a state of torpor. 



362 T*he Traveller's Note Book. 

Their food consisted of treacle, in the propor- 
tion of one teacupful to two of water, boiled 
together, in a jug plunged in a saucepan of 
boiling water, with as much salt sprinkled in 
as gave it the very slightest saline flavour.* 
This mixture was kept in jugs with narrow 
spouts and flat tops, over which thick brown 
paper was tied, to keep out the dust; and 
every night two of the widows went to each 
hive, with a candle, the jug of boiled treacle 
and water, and scoops made of elder or other 
wood, which they placed in the mouth of each 
hive, leaving the portion outside which was 
not hollowed. They filled each scoop with as 
much of the prepared food as the cavity would 
hold without overflowing. The first thing in 
the morning the scoops were withdrawn, and, 
being well washed, were put to dry in the 
house, on a shelf, till the following night. If 
the bees left any of their food in the scoop, it 
was not washed out, but withdrawn during the 
day, and replaced the next night in the hive 
from which it had been taken. 

♦Appendix No.. XLVIII. 



T*he Traveller's Note Book. 363 

When the spring is sufficiently advanced for 
the bees no longer to require food in the hive, 
they will not take it; but as the weather is 
very uncertain, and the sun and a few flowers 
may tempt them out for two or three days, 
after which a change may take place, to prevent 
their obtaining any food abroad, the Hermit's 
widows were frequently obliged to recommence 
feeding between the end of February and 
April. The Hermit explained that feeding 
the bees not only kept them strong and vigorous, 
but that it saved a great deal of time with re- 
gard to their labours in the spring ; as, if they 
had a good stock of honey for their own use, 
they begun the sooner to work for their master, 
and in good years the top hive may be changed 
twice between June and September, 

The Hermit was very indignant at the idea 
of joiner's work or cabinet-maker's work being 
necessary to make houses for bees ; and he said 
there was no greater mistake than to suppose 
that bees could only thrive under one aspect; 
— that a little observation might convince any 
one interested in the subject that bees will 



364 T^he Traveller's Note Book. 

thrive in various aspects, provided they are 
sheltered from wind, and they have easy access 
to pure but shallow water, where they can 
drink without danger of being drowned ; also 
that where the locality will not admit of a safe- 
watering-place for the bees, fresh water should 
be placed twice or thrice a day in shallow pans, 
in the shade, near the bee-house, which, if pos- 
sible, should have a projecting roof of stone- 
tile to screen them well from the rays of the sun. 
A little penthouse of this description, built 
against the wall, with the ends boarded or 
bricked up with a shelf from end to end (which 
shelf ought to be about an inch from the back 
wall), is quite sufficient for all useful purposes 
connected with bees. If stone-tile cannot be 
had, the roof should have double boards as a 
protection against the sun, and it should be 
plastered inside, and whitewashed inside and 
out every year, and frequently swept between 
the hives and examined, to see that no ants or 
snails, or other insects or reptiles, have taken 
up their abode in the bees* dominions, which is 
often the cause of their deserting their hives. 



The Traveller's Note Book. 365 

While I was with the Hermit, the widows 
were terrified one morning, at seeing a long 
black tail, and part of a black body, at the 
entrance hole of one of the hives, and I then 
had ocular demonstration of what before I never 
believed, viz. that mice would venture to inter- 
fere with bees, as a mouse attracted by the 
smell of the honey, of which they are par- 
ticularly fond, and being, no doubt, very 
hungry, had entered the hole of one of the bee- 
hives in the night, or early in the morning. 
It appeared that the mouse had only been able 
to squeeze little more than its head and its fore- 
feet into the hive, when it was so violently 
attacked and stung by the bees, that it died with- 
out being able to extricate itself, and, no doubt^ 
had it not been discovered soon, it would have 
caused the death of all the inhabitants of the 
hive from suffocation, the body having swelled 
and filled up the entrance.* The Hermit's 
bees knew the widows that fed them as 
well as possible, and were not alarmed by 
the introduction of the scoop in the evening, 

* A fact 



366 T*he Traveller's Note Book. 

and the evil consequences were explained to 
me of ever feeding bees in the daytime, or 
putting their food on the outside of the hives at 
any time^ as such a practice not only distracted 
their attention, and prevented the bees from 
following their regular routine of daily duties, 
but attracted their enemies, and subjected 
them to the continual annoyance of wasps, 
hornets, and other as troublesome, though less 
powerful insects. 

On the approach of winter, a quantity of 
dried fern was placed between the back of the 
hives and the back of the bee-house, and over 
the top of the hives. Fern is considered better 
than straw, less likely to harbour insects and 
birds, and more tough and lasting. The fern 
is removed when the bees begin their spring 
work, and the bee-house is well swept from 
cobwebs or any other impurities. Care was also 
taken to prevent weeds or flowers from growing 
underneath the shelf on which the hives are 
placed, and the Hermit preferred paving-stones, 
or pitching, as not afl^ording any harbour for 
insects or reptiles. He said that it was remark- 



The Traveller's Note Book. 367 

able, that although few people were ignorant 
that the bees, in a state of nature, made the 
hollow of a tree or a rock their chosen resi- 
dence, and always selected a place impervious 
to the rays of the sun, yet that he had repeatedly 
noticed the bees were often exposed to the 
fierce heat of the sun, without any reflection as 
to the torture those valuable little labourers 
must endure, if the top of the hive became so 
warm as to affect their honeycombs by partially 
melting their wax, also that bees required as 
much protection from the sun over their hives, 
as from the rain, but in front of their hives 
wind was their greatest enemy, and they should 
be so placed as to be able to issue forth and 
return home, without being blown over, which 
frequently occurs when the bee-house faces the 
windy quarter. When they swarm, their new 
hive should be rubbed with balm-leaves (but 
not daubed with beer and sugar), and every 
empty hive should be boiled in a copper of 
clean water, and well dried, in the month of 
April, to be ready when wanted, as without 
boiling it would be impossible to ensure them 



368 The Traveller's Note Book. 

from insects (or their eggs) having a domicile 
between the straw bands. 

I find I have myself imperceptibly acquired 
something like habits of industry, and of interest 
in objects which before would no more have 
occupied my mind than a blank wall would 
have gratified my sight, and time has fled so 
fast, from the multiplicity of occupations with 
which I have been diverted, that I look back 
with surprise to the length of time that has 
elapsed since I made the last entry in this Note 
Book, and with still greater astonishment do I 
recollect, that very soon after I returned to the 
Hermit's cell, on my culinary apprenticeship, I 
resolved to commence these memoranda, not so 
much with a view of recording useful informa- 
tion, as with the intention of turning my host 
into ridicule, by writing parallel columns of 
my own counter experiences, which were to be 
shown in triumph at the conclusion of my visit ; 
but where are the refutations which I intended 
to produce, by my own observations and prac- 
tical knowledge ? and Echo answers, where ! 



T^he "Traveller's Note Book. 369 



I have at last persuaded this venerable Welsh 
Hermit to go to London. I expect great 
amusement, if not improvement, from his re- 
marks upon what he may see and hear there 
in the nineteenth century, although I do not 
believe that, in scenes so totally different from 
those in v^hich he had lived for more than halt 
a century, he wrill be able to impart much 
instruction to myself or my friends. 

As I perceive the last pages of this note- 
book have been devoted to the industrious 
BEES, I cannot do better, on leaving Wales, 
than to dedicate the remaining space to the 
subject of a Welsh poem, written by a learned 
Welsh antiquarian,* upon those exemplary and 
mysterious insects. The contents of this poem 
in many respects expressed the sentiments of 
my venerable host, who was enthusiastically 
devoted to the bees, and in various conver- 
sations on this favourite subject he gave me an 
idea of the meaning of the above-mentioned 

* Gwalltr Mechain. 
B B 



1 



Ijo The Traveller's Note Book. 

composition, but he was very unwilling to 
allow me to take any notes, as he had a dread 
that some attempt might be made to turn the 
poem into English rhyme, and he said that it 
was utterly impossible in English to do any- 
thing like justice to Welsh composition ; that 
English prose might give an inoffensive outline 
or idea of the sentiments expressed, which 
(from the different construction of the lan- 
guages) English rhyme could never do, yet 
that any man who really comprehended the 
Welsh language as well as the English tongue 
(or vice versd) would never be guilty of the 
absurd attempt of translating Welsh poetry 
into English verse, excepting for the purpose 
of giving an incorrect and erroneous idea of 
the original. 

Having promised faithfully that I would 
never assist or encourage such an objectionable 
proceeding, I was permitted to make the fol- 
lowing notes from memory, which give a 
general notion of the subject : — 

The Welsh bard recounts that the Druids 
knew through a dream or vision that the bees 



The Traveller's Note Book. 371 

were originally inhabitants of heaven,* where 
they received the blessing of the Almighty; 
but for the sins of man were sent to the earth 
to teach the human race that diligence was 
happiness. The model of good government 
is described as displayed by the bees, who 
(Queen and subjects). each perform their various 
duties in unison, each executing with regularity, 
method, and precision, their allotted work, ac- 
cording to the various powers and qualifica- 
tions bestowed on every member, their system 
of government being such that the wisest of 
men might gain instruction from them, and 
learn many things which would be most con- 
ducive to the general welfare of nations. 

There is also a descriptioir of the fine balmy 
mornings in May, when the ascending sun 
summons the bees from their homes, and when 
(light- winged) they start off with the opening 
day, and disperse themselves over the country, 
collecting materials of various kinds, from leaves 
and flowers, with which to form mansions for 

* There is a tradition that the bees were white before the 
fall of Adam in Paradise, but afterwards became brown. 

B B 2 



372 T^he Travellei^s Note Book. 



the young generation and food for their support, 
collecting that honey which is so much prized 
in every quarter of the world. In seven days, 
when the young bees are able to fly, they are 
not subjected, like mortals, to long and painful 
tutelage and confinement, but they are taught 
early to exercise all the.ir powers fully and 
freely, to observe and recognise every leaf and 
flower, and to know the diffx^rence of forms 
and colours, yet the greatest wonder relating 
to this marvellous race is, that however much 
they may take from the flowers, " Nid ydyiv y 
ddeilen meillionen ddim llai " {there is not one single 
petal of trefoil the less). The bees have various 
modes of expression, and they thoroughly un- 
derstand their own language^ in which there arc 
many idioms, and which is always harmonious. 
When the weather changes, and high winds 
arise, and oblige the bees to return home, they 
do not return to idleness because they return to 
safety, and are surrounded by comforts. Unlike 
weak-minded man, the bees have always work 
ready, and adapted for all circumstances, and 
they are equally occupied, whether under the 



The Traveller's Note Book. 373 



canopy of heaven or in the shelter of their own 
homes, where they replace, arrange, and repair 
everything with the utmost discretion, and such 
true wisdom, that everything they do promotes 
stability as well as health and cleanliness. 
Maidens may well be instructed by the bees. 
Fools might learn of them (were fools capable 
of receiving instruction). — Matrons of every 
rank ought to study the bees, who demonstrate 
in their daily life the beauty of diligence^ as well 
as the use of industry ^ and who, in the midst ot 
all their labours, are so neat and comply, that 
they appear like gems when poised upon the 
flowers of the garden. 

Yet can it be believed that, by the perversion 
of human intellect, man wilfully murders these 
lovely and innocent winged beings, for the sake 
of eating their stores? Yes! senseless man 
actually destroys the labourers provided by the 
Almighty, who cheerfully work from morn till 
eve, and, by their unremitting industry, collect 
honey enough to satisfy the utmost greediness 
of the human race, as well as to maintain 
themselves and all their generations, also reared 



374 ^^ ^traveller's Note Book. 

■ 

to labour, and which are by the hand of man 
now suffocated in their cradles! Man has no 
right thus to use the arrows of death, and to 
oppose the ordinance of God.* 

The poem concludes with an emphatic 
aspiration, in which I (the Traveller) most 
heartily concur. — ^The Poet invokes prosperity 
for all the Bees in the world, wishing them the 
continuance of wisdom and intelligence to 
maintain their beneficial hosts, with hopes that 
the Ancient Britons may ever have means to 
live, be contented with their lot, and thankful 
to their God. The words of the original are 
these: — 

" Mawr gynnydd fo'n dilyn holl Wenyn y wlad, 
Mawr s)niwyr i feithrin — mawr fyddin mor fad, 
Fel y caffo yr hdn Frython fwyn foddion i fyw 
I'w byd yn foddlonus — yn ddiolchus i Dduw.^ 



* " Thou shalt not muzzle the ox when he treadeth out the comP 
How much more imjustifiable to kill thousands and tens of 
thousands of Bees, whose lives are not merely harmless but 
abundantly useful and profitable, and whose dead bodies do 
not benefit either man or beast 1 



T^he traveller's Note Book. 27 S 



LONDON. 

We have arrived in London. I am disap- 
pointed! I had expected that the Welsh 
Hermit would have been more impressed by 
the grandeur and progress of the human in- 
tellect from his first journey on a railway ; 
but alas ! he is much more struck by the incon- 
veniences than by the wonders of that mode of 
conveyance, and says that if he makes the ac- 
quaintance of any anatomists in the metropolis, 
he will entreat them to give lectures to en- 
lighten the railway companies and the builders 
of their carriages as to the fact that the relief 
and repose of the human frame cannot be 
promoted by having a large protuberance, or 
hump, in the wrong place, in the back of each 
of their carriages, so that, instead of the neck 
of a tired traveller being supported^ it is thrust 
forward exactly in the place where it ought to 
fall back, and, vice versd^ a hollow is pro- 
vided opposite the back, where a projection is 
most required. The blinds of the railway 
carriages caused him much astonishment and 



376 The Traveller's Note Book. 

indignation. The sun was hot and glaring. 
We had to change to other lines three times. 
The carriages of each line had different sorts 
of blinds. The first had springs which were 
all out of order ; the next had no springs, but 
rings on a rod, the consequence of which was, 
that there might as well have been no blinds 
at all, as the draught produced by the velocity 
of the motion blew the unfortunate blinds in 
every direction, and there was no alternative 
but to be blinded or to draw up the window 
and shut out the air. The third change was 
not an improvement, although it is impossible 
to say whether it once might have been so, as 
one window was minus any blind at all, and the 
other blind was in shreds. On complaining to 
the guard, he said ** they were under repair. ^^ 

I almost repent having induced the Hermit 
to take this journey; he is very intractable ; 
his satirical humour seems to increase, and alas ! 
his sharpness of perception also. 

Our journey was unlucky; there was an 
accident to a luggage train before us, and the 
wreck was so great that the broken carriages 



1 • 



T^he Traveller's Note Book. 377 

could not be got out of the way in time for us 
to pass, and we were obliged to walk through 
the wreck in the dark, to take our places in 
another train, which had been telegraphed for, 
and was waiting on the other side of the heap 
of ruins, by which transit we lost all our 
luggage, and obtained the trunks of other 
passengers. 

I only hope the Hermit will not publish 
all the particulars of his first railway journey, 
as it might bring down the shares of one of 
the lines, in which I have a large stake, which 
would be a cruel addition to the loss I have 
previously sustained of one finger and part of 
my thumb, and all my good looks ! 

There is certainly no progress made as yet 
towards inclining the Hermit to the belief that 
the nineteenth century is an age of remarkable 
intelligence or special improvement, and he 
continues to declare obstinately that if the ends 
produced by the present bad system of educa- 
tion, (so conducive to ignorance, through neglect 
of observation and reflection,) were printed in 
parallel columns with the benefits which have 



3/8 T^he Traveller's Note Book. 

been derived by the undoubted progress of 
mechanical talent^ that the balance of benefits 
would be on the wrong side of happiness, 
morality, general utility, and general intelli-^ 
gence. However, I will try to keep up my 
spirits, and commence a new note-book, as a 
record to look back upon of the visit of the 
Hermit of St. Gover to London in the nine- 
teenth century. 



END OF traveller's NOTE BOOK OF 1 866. 



APPENDIX. 



CONTAINING 



RECIPES GIVEN BY THE HERMIT TO THE TRAVELLER, 
AS COOKED IN THE CELL OF ST. GOVER. 



APPENDIX. 



No. 1. 
BOILED FOWL. 

Weight of fowl, three and a half lbs. ; a quarter of a 
pint of cold water to each pound. Fill the outer vessel 
with water, and let it simmer very slowly for two 
hours and a quarter, unless the meat of the fowl is 
tender and fit for eating sooner, which can be proved 
by trying it with a fork. Pour off the broth, which 
ought to be about a pint of strong chicken broth, and 
when cold will be a jelly. The bones of the chicken, 
after the meat is eaten (or all taken off), are to be 
broken up, and stewed in a digester for two or three 
hours, with a pint of water to every pound of bones ; 
then pour the liquor off, which ought to produce 
about half a pint of jelly, and the bones are to be re- 
broken, and put into the digester again, with a pint 
of water to every pound of bones, which will, of 
course, weigh less than before the first stewing. 
They are to remain between one and two hoxirs stew- 
ing, then pour off the liquor, which ought to produce 
more than a quarter of a pint of jelly. The bones to 



382 Appendix. 

be broken the third time, and subjected to the same 
process, with a pint of water to the pounds their 
weight being again diminished : the liquor ought to 
produce a quarter of a pint of jelly. Thus, a fowl or 
three pounds and a half weight will, under proper 
management, on an average, produce, besides the 
meaty more than a quart of jelly stock, first and last, 
including the pint produced by the first boiling. 

N.B. — It must be remembered that slight difFer- 
ences as to produce will be found, according to the 
sort, the quality, or condition of poultry, as well as 
butcher's meat : but the receipts given in this work 
have been written down from actual practical experi- 
ments, often repeated, and the variations in the pro- 
duce are, on an average, trifling, excepting where the 
meat has been very fat^ and when that is the case in 
butcher's meat, the same quantity of jelly stock must 
never be expected as when the meat is lean, inasmuch 
as the fat will not produce gravy; consequently, 
when there is a great overplus of fat, less water 
should be allowed to the weight of m^t. 

In the proceeds from the Hermit's fowl, the oil on 
the top of the jelly from the first boiling measured a 
quarter of a pint, and the fat collected from the 
surface of all the jellies amounted to a quarter of 
a pint 



Appendix. 383 

Total produce of Hermit's fowl {besides the 
meat) : — 

Jelly stock, i quart. 
Oil „ J of a pint. 
Fat „ ^ of a pint. 



PARSLEY SAUCE FOR BOILED FOWL. 

Two ounces of fresh butter, cut in little bits, put 
into a double saucepan, with as much flour as will 
make it into a stifF paste ; then add two tablespoon- 
fuls of milk ; stir well, add six tablespoonfuls of 
water, continue to stir till it is quite hot and the 
thickness of good cream. The above is now plain 
melted butter, and ready for parsley sauce, which must 
be made by previously having had the parsley washed 
very clean, and picking every leaf off the stems ; put a 
small teaspoonful of salt into half a pint of boiling 
water, boil the parsley in this for ten minutes, drain 
it on a sieve, mince it fine, or bruise it to a pulp, 
and stir it into the melted butter prepared as above 
described. 



384 Appendix. 



FRICASEED COLD CHICKEN.— (Page zs) 

Chop very fine leek-roots, celery, a small quantity 
of turnip, and some persons like a little carrot. 
Put the whole into a saucepan with sufficient top fat 
(if from chicken stock all the better) to form a thick 
pulp when thoroughly incorporated with the chopped 
vegetables (the whole of the vegetables together being 
about two ounces), stir briskly over the fire for ten 
minutes ; then shake in as much flour as will make it 
a stiff paste, stirring well for five minutes longer, 
then put the whole into a double saucepan in which is 
three-quarters of a pint of chicken stock, which has 
been previously warmed, and after well stirring, again 
leave it to stew slowly for three-quarters of an hour, 
then pass the whole through a wire sieve into a basin, 
and pour what is strained back into the double, adding 
two tablespoonfuls of cream, after which the flavour 
must be improved as required, by stirring round a 
sprig of orange thyme, or any other herb wanted, and, 
if the flavour of celery and onions is not sufficient, it is 
now to be increased by stirring round pieces of either 
of those vegetables, and taking them out as soon as suffi- 
cient taste is obtained. The meat of the cold chicken 
is to be cut or pulled into long pointed pieces, and put 
into the sauce, where, being well stirred, it is to remain 



Appendix. 385 

until thoroughly warmed through, and the chicken 
flavour imparted to the sauce. This will take a few 
minutes more or less according to the heat to which 
the hot water on the outside is exposed, — the slower 
the better, as, if the water is kept fiercely boiling 
instead of barely simmering, the chicken will be beat 
to pieces; whereas having already been once dressed, 
it ought only to be done the second time sufliciently 
to have the chicken flavour imported to the sauce, 
and the flavour of the sauce absorbed by the chicken. 
In the Hermit's mode of cookery in separate double 
vessels, any dishes can be kept warm without injury 
for a long while, should the dinner by any accident 
be retarded.* 

♦ The reader of this recipe, who raay possibly be acquainted 
with the copper tray called a Bain-Marie, to hold hot water, 
which is used by professed cooks to keep their sauces from 
burning, and may probably suppose that that contrivance was 
unknown to the Hermit, and that his system of double vessels 
for cookery was only a clumsy substitution for a scientific 
invention, beyond his knowledge or his reach ; it is, therefore, 
necessary to add, that it was in consequence of the total inef- 
ficiency of the copper tray, called a Bain-Marie, to eflfect the 
objects which it was the ambition of the Hermit to attain, that 
he discarded the Bain-Marie altogether, as an expensive and 
cumbersome addition to his kitchen, which took up a great 
deal of room, and did very little work, and was totally inad- 
missible where there was not a very large stove. 

C C 



3^6 Appendix. 



No. II. 

ROAST LEG OF MUTTON. 

Leg of mutton weighing five lbs. ; put on the hook 
attached to the yarn, which hangs frop»^ crank (see 
page 40), 24 inches from the fire, basted with clarified 
dripping, or suet. Keep an earthen pan on the bottom 
of the screen next the dripping-pan ; afifc r basting, 
ladle all the gravy, or liquid fat, out of tlpdripping- 
prn into the earthen pan, from which it /an be taken 
as often as needed to baste, and ag^ift returned. A 
leg of mutton of this size will take dttit three hours ; 
half an hour before it is finished, ■ut it four inches 
nearer the fire ; put half a pint of'boiling water in a 
watering-pot with the rose on, salt to taste, and pour 
over the joint slowly, which will produce a great 
increase of gravy, and when browned again after the 
watering, and well basted, sprinkle flour all over it 
with a flour dredger, and again baste to froth it. 
The gravy to be served with the meat should, if 
possible, have been saved from a previous joint, and 
warmed in a double saucepan ; but, if not practicable, 
the gravy should be taken out of the dripping-pan 
after the watering, and placed in a basin or dish to 
cool, and when the fat is sufiiciently congealed to be 



Appendix. 387 

removed, the clear gravy can be rewarmed in a 
double saucepan, and would be ready to be served 
with the meat by the time it is frothed and dished. 



JELLY FROM THE BONES OF ROAST LEGS OF 

WELSH MUTTON. 

The bones of roast Welsh legs of mutton, broken 
small, and put in a digester with three pints 
of water, ^produced a pint and a half of jelly after 
stewing slowly for three hours; the bones being re- 
broken and put down again with a pint and a half of 
water, after Awing for two hours produced three- 
quarters of a pint more jelly. The bones being broken 
the third time, and put down with one pint of water'; 
produced one-quarter pint more jelly. Total quantity 
of jelly from a pound and a half of leg of mutton 
bones, two pints and a half. 



No. III. 
STEWED BEEF. 

Trimmings of half-rounds of beef cut in pieces for 
pies, 6 lbs. 

Brisket, stewed same time, 1 5 lbs. 

C C 2 



388 Appendix. 

Beef altogether, 21 lbs. 

Onions, celery, leeks, turnips, and carrots about 
four soup-plates full, a soup-plate holding about 
I lb. of chopped vegetables. Suet, or top fat, i lb. 

N.B. — The suet or top fat which is added to 
stewed beef to make it more mellow, should always 
be added the last thing over the vegetables, because 
otherwise it would prevent the juice and flavour of 
the vegetables from penetrating into the meat. 

Water two quarts and one pint, being a quarter of 
a pint of water to every pound of beef. Stewed in 
double vessel for twelve hours, produced six quarts 
of stock, which when cold was a strong jelly; and the 
fat when cold taken ofF the top weighed two pounds 
and a half. 

It must always be remembered that the fatter the 
meat the less stock will be produced ; nothing is so 
wasteful or unwholesome for household purposes as 
over-fat meat, or fat produced by oil-cake and forcing 
feeding, and such animals are, moreover, scarcely 
ever free from disease. 

The sauce for this stewed beef (if eaten hot) is 
prepared from its own jelly stock in the same 
manner as hashed mutton, with addition of turnip 
and carrot balls (or shreds) stewed till tender in 
broth. (See page 64.) 



Appendix. 389 



No. IV. 
HASHED MUTTON. 

Cut as much mutton as is required from the re- 
mainder of a roast leg in pointed pieces.* Fry 
one ounce and a half of onion, and the same of celery 
chopped fine, and one ounce of turnip, with a suffi- 
cient quantity of fresh top fat, cut in small pieces, 
from soup or broth, stirred round and round over a 
stove or fire in a clean tin saucepan for ten minutes ; 
then add as much flour as will stiffen it into a paste 
of the consistency of wet mortar, and stir round and 
round over the stove for five minutes more ; then add 
a sufficient quantity of the jelly from the bone of the 
leg of roast mutton, to be of the consistence of thick 
pea-soup ; then pour the whole into a double sauce- 
pan, in the outside of which there must be a sufficient 
quantity of boiling water to fill within an inch of the 
top of the inner saucepan. Let the whole simmer 
gently for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes; 
then pour through a wire sieve and return into a 
clean double saucepan, which replace on the stove ; 
taste, and if it requires any further flavouring of 
herbs or vegetables, add them ; then put in the pre- 

* See description, page 60. 



390 ' Appendix . 

pared pieces of meat, stir well, and let it remain in a 
very slow heat for half an hour, when it will be ready 
for the table. 



No. V. 
SIMPLE WHITE SOUP. 

One pint of veal stock and one pint of brown 
stock in a large basin ; place the basin over a sauce- 
pan of boiling water on a stove or fire, add an onion 
cut in half, three or four pieces of celery slit in 
variousplaces to let out the juice, a sprig or two of 
basil and marjory (if in winter these herbs may be 
used in powder, having been bottled* in the summer) ; 
place a plate over the top of the basin, and the lid of 
the saucepan on the plate to keep in the heat ; let all 
simmer together, the water in the saucepan being 
kept boiling under the basin for forty minutes ; then 
add four tablespoonfuls of cream and macaroni cut 
small, after having been previously stewed till tender 
in mutton broth or veal stock. 



* See page 75, on preserving and bottling herbs. 



Appendix. 391 



THE WHITE SOUP OF GOVER. 

Put one quart of veal stock in a double saucepan to 
warm, then chop fine six ounces of onion, six of celery, 
four of leeks, six of pumpkin, four of carrots; stir the 
whole in a single saucepan over the stove for ten 
minutes, with as much top fat as will make them into 
a pulp, without burning or being oily ; then shake in 
with the dredger as much flour as will form the whole 
into a pulpy paste^ stirring briskly for five minutes 
more ; then add the whole mass to the hot veal stock 
in the double saucepan, and let all stew slowly together 
surrounded with boiling water for an hour and a half, 
frequently stirring ; then pass through a wire sieve, 
return into a clean double saucepan, add whatever 
flavouring is deficient, either in salt or herbs, with 
six spoonfuls of cream ; let the whole be well stirred 
and thoroughly hot, and it is ready for the table. 

N.B. — More or less cream can be added accord- 
ing to taste, and it is better flavoured if the cream is 
added before it is put through the wire sieve, to which 
some persons may object for reasons given by the 
Hermit ; * but whether before or after, an additional 

* See page 113. 



3 Q 2 Appendix. 

flavour of herbs is generally required, and sometimes 
more onion after the cream, which can be done by 
adding pieces of vegetables or sprigs of herbs until 
the additional flavour has been obtained, when th^y 
can be taken out before it is served. 

N.B. — The stocks used for the above soups are 
the jelly produced by boiling or stewing in a double 
vessel either veal or beef, till in perfection for eat- 
ing (as described by the Hermit), in the proportions 
of a quarter pint of water to one lb. of meat (bone 
and flesh together) ; if very fat, less stock will be 
produced. — Nothing is worse economy than overplus of 
fat. When broth only is wanted half 2l pint of water 
to the pound may be used. 



THE HERMITS GRAVY SOUP.* 

Five pounds of lean beef cut in small pieces, 
(trimmed from the inside of two half-rounds before 
they were salted,) fifteen pounds of brisket of beef, 
four pounds of onions, leeks, turnips, and carrots, all 
finely chopped, in the proportions of one pound of 
onions, one pound of celery, half a pound of leeks, 
quarter of a pound of turnips, quarter of a pound of 

* Page 65. 



Appenaix. 393 

carrots. Sntt one pound, water two quarts and one 
pint, being a quarter of a pint to every pound of meat, 
stewed in double twelve hours, by which time the 
meat was not overdone, but very tender and juicy. 
The produce wrs five quarts and a pint and a half of 
stock, which when cold was a clear jelly; fat taken off 
the jelly when cold weighed two pounds and a half. 

N.B. — Had the meat been fatter the produce of 
soup would have been much less, and there would 
have been waste in eating the meat from dispropor- 
tion of fat to the lean. The arrangement of the 
meat, &c. in the inside vessel, was as follows : — 
First, brisket ; then the trimmings on the top of the 
brisket; second, vegetables; third, a sprinkling of 
salt on the vegetables ; fourth, suet also on the vege- 
tables. By attention to this order of things, the 
juices of the vegetables drawn out by slightly salting 
are distilled through the meat, while the suet is also 
slowly melted, and enriches the meat as it passes 
through ; the superabundance, after the meat is satu- 
rated, is all again collected from the top of the jelly 
stock when cold. By this process of slow cooking 
in a double vessel two very important objects are 
gained; the first being the impossibility of burning 
or entirely spoiling the meat or the soup ; the second. 



394 Appendix. 

that more soup is obtained than the quantity of water 
which is put to the meat; whereas upon the old 
system much less soup is produced than the quantity 
of water put in, because the liquor is boiled away 
and wasted. The trimmings thus cooked make the 
best beef family pies, the bottom part of the jelly 
stock being used for the gravy, which not being so 
transparent as the upper part is not so well adapted 
in appearance for gravy soup, but is especially 
savoury and well-flavoured. The brisket itself is 
ready to be served next day, with the sauce recom- 
mended by the Hermit.* No skimming while hot is 
ever required for any of the recipes in this book. 

The gravy soup, as well as other soups, will gene- 
rally require some extra flavouring of herbs and 
vegetables when warmed for the table, which warming 
must always be in a double saucepan, or a basin over 
a saucepan of boiling water : the latter is the most 
delicate. 



No. VI. 
HASHED MUTTON (SIMPLE). 

Prepare the cold mutton as directed in No, 4 ; 
salt it slightly, flour it lightly, turning it well over 

* See page 64. 



Appendix. 395 

with two forks ; put it into a double saucepan, with 
a sufficient quantity of jelly from the bones of mutton 
previously flavoured with onion and herbs; let the 
meat remain in this sauce in a gentle heat, frequently 
stirred for three quarters of an hour before it is 
served. If there is no jelly from mutton bones, clear 
gravy from roast mutton, similarly flavoured, would 
be very good. 



No. VII. 
MUTTON PIE. 

Neck or loin of mutton, five poun3s, cut in chops, 
put in a double saucepan with half a quarter of a pint 
of water to the pound ; add one pound of vegetables 
chopped fine (onions and celery equal quantities, 
turnips and carrots half the quantity) ; a sprinkling of 
salt. Stew for two hours ; when the meat is sufli- 
ciently tender, take it ofi^, pour the liquor into a basin 
to cool, and cut the meat off the bones, removing 
also the superfluous fat. When the liquor is cold 
take the solid fat oS the top, and the stock will then be 
in a jelly ; add this jelly to the meat which has been 
cut oflF the bones, and place the whole in a thick 
crockery basin over a saucepan of boiling water until 
the jelly has melted amongst the meat, and the whole 



396 Appendix. 

is warmed through ; then remove till the next day, 
when the meat will be imbedded in the jelly which 
will have cooled round it, and of which it will have 
absorbed a great deal. The meat and jelly can then 
be placed in layers in the pie-dish, and there ought 
to be (if done properly) considerably more jelly than 
is required for gravy for the pie, which overplus is 
to be kept back ; a little fresh parsley chopped small 
is to be sprinkled between the meat. 

TJhe paste for the pie is to be made with six ounces 
of flour, three ounces of the top fat, taken ofF 
the mutton jelly, and put on the fire in a saucepan 
with a quarter of a pint of water ; when the water 
boils make a hole in the middle of the flour and pour 
in the boiling water and mutton fat by degrees, 
mixing the fat in with a spoon ; when well mixed, 
knead it till of the proper stifiiiess, and dredge the 
board with flour to make it smooth ; cover your pic, 
make a hole in the top, and form a little ornament 
with a small stem to fit into it. Fill your baking tin 
with water under the pie-dish to prevent too great a 
heat to the bottom : when the paste is baked the pie 
is done. Screw out the top ornament and pour in 
as much liquid mutton jelly as the pie can receive, 
which must be previously warmed in a double sauce- 
pan ; replace the ornament, and serve the pie. 



yjppendix. 397 

N.B.— A pie after baking will always take a good 
deal of extra gravy, but it will not take nearly all 
that the meat has produced when properly done, and 
of which there ought to be more to spare, which can 
be used for soups or sauces, or added to mutton broth. 



No. VIII. 
PEA-SOUP (WINTER). 

One pint of peas soaked in the well for twenty- 
four hours; stew three hours in a double saucepan 
with one pint of bone stock, and a quarter of a pound 
of finely-chopped onions, and a quarter of a pound of 
celery ; rub through a wire sieve, put back again into 
the double, add one pint and a half of good broth or 
stock, and stew one hour more, with one onion split 
in half, and three pieces of split celery, and a little 
fresh or powdered basil ; add salt and powdered or 
fresh mint, with marjory, and orange thyme to taste. 
The above soup may be varied by adding a quarter 
of a pint of cream before the last onion and herbs are 
put in ; and the Hermit occasionally had rice stewed 
in new milk in a double saucepan, and added instead 
of the cream, on which occasion fried bread was not 
served, which was done when the pea-soup was made 
without rice. 



398 Appendix. 



No. IX. 

GREEN PEA-SOUP (SUMMER). 

Chop all together very small, three lettuces, two 
cucumbers, half a pound of spinach, half a pound of 
onions, half a pound of leeks. Let them be stirred 
in a single saucepan for ten minutes with a quarter 
of a pound of fresh top fat from beef stock until 
in a pulp; meantime, have prepared in another 
double a pint and a half of veal or beef jelly stock 
from stewed beef or boiled veal, also one pint of 
old green peas, which have also been stewed and 
pulped through a wire sieve; add to the stock the 
pulp fi( the peas and other vegetables ; flavour ac- 
cording to taste, by stirring round at last pieces of 
split celery, a little basil and mint to taste, and serve, 
having a quarter of a pint of young and tender peas 
ready boiled to throw in before it is served up. 
The Hermit sometimes added pieces of cucumber 
about an inch long, which had been previously stewed 
in beef or veal jelly stock. 

N.B. — Two pounds of green pea-shells chopped 
or pounded, will produce excellent pea-soup, treated 



Appendix. 399 

in the same manner as the old green peas in the above 
recipe, and will be found very convenient when peas 
are scarce. 



No. X. 

BEEF-STEAK. 



Place beef-steaks in a large single saucepan, or stew- 
pan, over the stove ; turn them about until browned on 
both sides without being burnt y with an ounce of top 
fat from beef stock ; take about two dozen of button 
onions, and boil till tender, in as much water as will 
cover them, in a double saucepan; then take the 
beef-steaks, (about five pounds,) and, when browned, 
put them with the gravy that has been extracted, intp 
a double, anA add to them the water which has boiled 
the button onions, two ounces of celery chopped 
small, one ounce of carrots ditto, two ounces of onions 
ditto ; let the steaks stew with the above from one to 
two hours, or till tender, then put into a basin, pour 
all their gravy over them, straining the vegetables out, 
and leave them till the next day, when the fat, which 
will have congealed on the top, is to be removed, and the 
basin with the steaks and gravy placed on a saucepan 
of boiling water to warm, and if the button onions are 
liked, they can be added ; also a quarter of a pound of 



400 Appendix. 

potatoes, cut in little balls or dice, are to be fried in 
a quarter of a pound of top fat, of a golden yellow, 
a quarter of an hour before they are wanted. They 
are to be put on a doubled clean cloth upon a flat 
dish, and placed in the screen before the kitchen fire, 
being turned to remove all superfluous fat, and being 
perfectly hot and dry, are to be put into the gravy 
with the steaks when served. 



No. XL 

TO PRESERVE GAME OR POULTRY, OR ANY SORT 
OF MEAT, WHEN REQUIRED TO BE KEPT 
LONG BEFORE IT IS EATEN. 

Roast the poultry or game exactly the same as if 
it was to be eaten immediately ; by the time it is 
ready have a sufficient quantity of fresh suet (beef is 
preferred) melted in a double saucepan, put the game 
or poultry into a pan or vessel sufficiently deep, and 
pour in hot suet till over the top ; keep in a cold 
place, and when wanted, cut it out of the suet, which 
will easily be broken off the game, and place the 
birds in a basin with a very little pure broth under 
them, put the basin over a saucepan of boiling water, 
cover with a plate, and as soon as the birds have 
slowly been warmed through, during which process 



Appendix. 401 

they must be turned, they are ready for the table, 
with the addition of some pure gravy from something 
similar, or else from roast mutton. The suet which 
has melted into the broth will congeal on the top 
when cold, and can be taken off. 

N.B, — It is seldom remembered that dressing meatj 
after it is tainted, will not remove the taint, though 
it may render it less offensive and unwholesome ; con- 
sequently, those who wish to preserve meat, game, or 
poultry in hot weather, must dress it before it is 
tainted. 



No. XII. 
BAKED FILLET OF VEAL. 

Stuff the fillet with stuffing made of finely chopped 
suet, lemon-peel, and bread crumbs, leek root finely 
chopped, a little orange thyme, nutmeg, pepper, 
and salt, pounded with one egg ; after it is filleted 
and stuffed, put two ounces suet or fresh top fat 
from stock of soups (veal the best) on the top of 
the fillet after placing it in the iron (outer) part of 
Ffwrn fach without the inner* tin^ Place over it (if 
to be had) a piece of the rind from cold boiled pork, 
with about a quarter of an inch of the fat adhering to 



402 Appendix. 

it ; add one quart of water^ put in an oven of steady 
heat, not sharp, and take out all the fire from under 
the oven as soon as it is in. A fillet of veal of seven 
pounds will take about three hours. When done^ 
the gravy must be poured ofiF^ and when cold will be 
in a firm jelly. 

N.B. — If the veal was baked in the tin double of 
the Ffwrn fach, in addition to the outer vessel itself^ 
it would produce more gravy y but the objection to this 
mode of cooking is that the veal will not then brown 
outside; but if the fillet is only wanted for eating 
cold, for mince veal, &c., or making the Hermit's pies, 
it had better be done in a double vessel to produce 
more gravy, and the meat will taste equally good or 
better. If required to be eaten hot, it can be served 
next day warmed in a double, with some of its own 
gravy. 

No. XIII. 

TONGUE BOILED. 

One of the Hermit's salt* tongues, which weighed 
two pounds, stewed six hours in a double saucepan, 
with one quart and one pint of spring water, and six 
ounces of fresh suet. When done the tongue was 

• For Salting Tongues see No. XXXIX. 



wmBBmmaamm 



Appendix. 403 

tender but firm^ and the water in which it was boiled 
being kept till cold^ all the suet that had not been 
absorbed by the tongue was taken ofF from the sur- 
face when solid* 



TONGUE ROASTER 

A favourite Welsh dish, aod a very excellent one. 
Wash a fresh tongue well, and when quite clean cut 
off no more of the roots than wi^l make it stand 
well on the dish ; chop fine equal parts of onions 
and celery, and half as much of carrots and turnips, 
and pile them all along the tongue ; sprinkle freely 
with salt, and add half a pound of fresh top fat from 
soups, or (if not to be had) use chopped suet, but 
the former is best ; then bind up the tongue, with 
the vegetables and the fat upon it, in two or three 
folds of thin " whity brown " paper, which must be 
tied on. The tongue is then ready for roasting, and 
must be well basted, the paper being previously 
thoroughly greased. A short time before it is done, 
cut the string, take oflF the paper, and brown it before 
it is taken down. The best gravy is that from roast 
beef, but roast mutton is also suitable. It is cus- 
tomary to stick in a few cloves round the top before 
it is sent to table, but this is more ornamental than 
useful. 

D D 2 



404 Appendix. 



No. XIV. 
HERMITS RABBIT FRICASEK 

Two rabbits cut up, weighing four pounds and a 
half; one pint and half a quarter pint of water, stewed 
for three hours, produced a pint and a half of jelly. 
Put away for the next day, then take the pint and a 
half of rabbit jelly and put on in a double, with two 
ounces of onions and the same of celery, chopped 
very fine y and a pint and a half of milk; let it stew 
altogether for half an hour ; then put in the rabbity 
which has been previously cut in moderate sized 
pieces, and floured, and let all stew together in the 
double, frequently stirring, for an hour, slow heat. 

If a richer and more delicate dish is required, the 
vegetables should be stirred over a stove, in a single 
saucepan, for ten minutes, and then made into a paste 
with flour, and stirred for five minutes more, and the 
whole put into a "double" with the rabbit jelly and 
a little new milk or cream, and after being stirred 
half an hour put through a wire sieve, returned to the 
double, then put in the pieces of rabbit for half an 
hour before serving, which in this case should not be 
floured. 



Appendix. 405 



No. XV. 
HERMIT'S BOILED SHOULDER OF MUTTON. 

Weighed three pounds; onions^ half a pound; 
celery, half a pound, chopped fine ; marjory and a 
small sprig of orange thyme. 

Put in a double with one pint and a half of water, 
and water boiling round for two hours and a half. 
Produced one quart of good broth, the meat being 
tender and juicy. 



ONION SAUCE FOR BOILED SHOULDER OF 

MUTTON. 

Cut up four onions and stew in a double with a 
little water till tender ; then pour off the water and 
mix half an ounce of flour with it ; then add half a 
pint of milk, and stir well till of a proper consis- 
tency, then pass through the wire sieve and return 
into the double saucepan ; stir well, and when quite 
hot it is ready to pour over the boiled shoulder of 
mutton or over boiled rabbits. 



4o6 Appendix. 



No. XVI. 
HERMIT'S SAUSAGES. 

Quarter of a pound of roast or baked pork^ quarter 
of a pound of baked veal^ two ounces of cold boiled 
tongue^ an ounce and a half of onions chopped very 
fine^ an ounce and a quarter of sage^ flour well^ add 
pepper and salt to taste; pound well in a mortar, 
and make into very thin, short, round sausages ; beat 
up one egg well, and glaze the sausages with it, then 
roll them in two ounces of fine bread crumbs, and 
fry in boiling-hot top fat (from soup stock) until 
the sausages are a fine golden brown : if they are at 
all greasy, put them on a soft hot cloth on a flat 
dish in a screen before the fire, and turn them on the 
cloth till they are perfectly dry, before serving. 

N.B. — Where pork is used it can be baked in the 
same manner as directed for the fillet of veal ; but if 
no more is wanting than the quantity to make sau- 
sages, it is better to cut up a quarter of a pound of 
raw pork and a quarter of a pound of raw veal, and 
half a quarter of a pint of water and a little salt, 
which can be baked slowly in a double Ffwrn fach, 
or it can be stewed in a double saucepan till the meat 
is fit for eating. When it is not convenient to pro- 



Appendix. 407 

vide pork or vcal, cold stewed beef, or indeed any 
cold meat) will make very good sausages, if pounded, 
with the addition of a litde finely-chopped suet, and 
well flavoured with sage. 



Na XVII. 
THE HERMITS COLD VEAL PIK 

Bake (or stew in a double) a pound and a half of 
veal, with not quite a pint of water, and a little orange 
thyme, some small bits of fresh lemon-peel, and a 
very small bit of mace. Bake or stew till the veal 
is in good eating order ; it will take more or less 
time, according to the tenderness of the meat, but, 
whether baked or stewed, it must be done very 
slowly. When done pour off the gravy, which will 
become a jelly, and put the meat away till the next 
day ; then pound the veal very fine in a mortar, with 
a sufficient quantity of boiled salt tongue to give it 
sufficient saltness and flavour ; moisten while pound- 
ing with as much of the jelly stock from the veal as 
will make it into a stiflF paste, the consistency of 
mcM-t^; rub the inside of the dish well with olive 
oil or top fat ; then stick small pieces of dry vermi- 
celli all over the bottom of the dish ; line the dish 



4o8 Appendix. 

(over the vermicelli) with paste — (the same paste as 
that in the recipe given for mutton pie) — then put in 
the pounded meat^ press down close and flat to the 
top of the dish, and cover over with the same paste. 
Bake for an hour in a slow oven with water in the 
baking-tin under the dish, and when cold it will turn 
out of the dish topsy-turvy^ the vermicelli adhering^ 
to the paste : when eaten the end should be cut off* 
straight, and slices taken off from one end to the 
other. The above pie is also excellent for sand- 
wiches. 

No. XVIII. 
SALT DUCK. 

For a common-sized duck, a quarter of a pound of 
salt, to be well rubbed in and re-rubbed, and turned 
on a dish every day for three days ; then wash all 
the salt off clean, put it into- a double with half 
a pint of water to the pound, and let it simmer 
steadily for two hours. Salt boiled duck, with white 
onion sauce, is much better than roast duck. 



No. XIX. 
GREEN PEA-SOUP. 
See Appendix No. IX, 



Appendix. 409 



No. XX. 
ROOT OF TONGUE SOUP. 

Cut off the roots of a fresh tongue, wash well in 
separate waters, and then leave them to soak in a pan 
sunk in a stone trough or well over which fresh water 
is constantly running, for half an hour, then take 
them out and place them in the inner tin of a Ffwm 
fach, with half a pound of vegetables, viz. celery, 
onions, leeks, turnips, and carrots chopped fine, equal 
parts of each excepting carrots, of which there must not 
be more than one small root chopped small ; sprinkle 
a little salt over the vegetables, and let all stew 
slowly with water boiling round until the roots are 
thoroughly done ; then strain the soup off into a 
pan, place the roots on a dish till the next day, and 
the vegetables will be excellent mixed in broth for 
family use. The following day the soup will be a 
jelly, from the face of which the fat must be removed. 
When the soup is wanted, put the jelly into a large 
basin or pan over a saucepan of boiling water ; when 
hot, taste, and add any herbs required for flavouring, 
or any additional vegetables, if wanted, can be put in 
and stirred round till sufficient flavour is obtained. 



4 1 o Appendix. 

The best parts of the roots of tongue are to be cut 
In neat squares or mouthfuls^ and put into the soup 
to warm before it is served. No water need be 
added to the roots beyond what they will imbibe 
in the well. 



No. XXL 
TO CLARIFY FAT. 

All fat which is not used fresh should be clarified 
in the following manner. Cut up the fat in very 
small pieces, and put it into a large double saucepan^ 
which should be kept on purpose; when perfectly 
liquefied from the heat of the water which has been 
boiling round it, pour it into a very large pan holding 
four or five gallons of boiling water, and stir the 
liquid fat briskly with a stick round and round ; let 
the whole cool, and next morning the fkt will be on 
the surface in a white cake, which can be cut round 
and across with a knife and taken ofF in pieces ; the 
under part of each piece should be scraped, if any 
impurity adheres to it ; the cakes of fat can then be 
broken up and put into little pans, holding from one 
to three pounds each, which being placed in the 
screen before the kitchen fire, will melt again, and 



Appendix. 411 

on being removed to a cold place will congeal, and, 
if wanted for keeping long (if the pans are not filled 
too full), a piece of linen or calico, or even paper, can 
be placed over the top, and a piece of wood (like a 
bung) can be pressed down on the fet with the cloth, 
or calico, under it, by which means the air is excluded, 
and the fat will keep for some time. 

N.B. — The pan to hold the boiling water into which 
the fat is to be poured should also have boiling water 
put into it to stand for half an hour before the fat is 
ready ; this first water being poured off, the pan will 
have become hot^ and the second supply of boiling 
water will be scalding hot when the liquid fat is poured 
into it; but otherwise the cold pan would have 
abstracted so much heat from the boiling water that 
the water would no longer be hot enough for the 
purpose of clarifying and purifying the fat properly. 
The fine fat which is obtained from the boiling and 
stewing of beef, veal, and mutton, only requires one 
clarification for keeping, but dripping from roast meat 
should have twOy and, as a general rule, fat should be 
kept separate according to its sort. 'Dripping should 
never be mixed with any other fat, and fried fat (which 
should have two or three clarifications) is always in- 
ferior for any other cooking purpose, and should also 



412 Appendi:(n 

be kept by itself^ whilst the flavoured fats from beef and 
veal are best for savoury cooking purposes when «/r- 
clarifiedj if used fresh^ ^ they possess all the aroma 
of the vegetables with which the meat has been 
stewed. 

No. XXIL 
BREAD SAUCK 

Two ounces of fine bread crumbs, half a pint of 
milk^ one small white onion whole, four black pepper- 
corns whole. Stew for forty minutes in double sauce- 
pan, stirring well; then add two tablespoonfuls of 
cream; stir again, and take out the onion and the 
peppercorns before the sauce is served. 



No. XXIII. 
THE HERMITS MARROW-BONES. 

The marrow taken out of the bones weighed five 
ounces. The bones weighed three pounds. The 
bones were broken small with an iron hammer, and 
put into the digester with three pints of water, 
stewed slowly on the stove for four hours. The 
marrow taken oflF the top when cold weighed fi>e and 
a half ounces, under which was one pint of fine jelly ; 
the bones were re-broken and stewed again with two 



Appendix. 413 

pints of water : the marrow when cold weighed one 
ounce and a half, and there was three-quarters of a 
pint of jelly. The bones-were broken the third time 
and stewed with one pint and a half of water for three 
hours ; one ounce and a quarter of marrow was pro- 
duced and a quarter of a pint of jelly. The marrow 
altogether weighed thirteen ounces and a quarter. 
The total of jelly was two pints. The marrow taken 
out of the bones before they were stewed was put 
into a double saucepan with a quart of cold water^ 
and simmered till the marrow had melted. But 
when wanted for mince pie meaty it is not to be 
clarified. When clarified^ it is for mince pie paste , 
or other pastry. (See Mince Pies, page 444.) 



No. XXIV. 

THE HERMITS SOUP FOR POOR PEOPLE. 

Three pints of peas, soaked in the well all night ; 
then put in the double with three quarts of water, and 
stew five hours. Chop very small, onions, celery, 
leeks, turnips, and carrots, three pounds altogether; 
stir in single saucepan over stove with a half pound 
of top fat for ten minutes^ add one pound of oatmeal, 
and stir again well for five minutes more ; then put 
them into the double^ together with twenty quarts of 



4^4 Appendix. 

broth from boiled beef (not oversalted) or bone 
stock, to stew for an hour. Any pieces of dressed 
meat to spare can be cut up and added at last. 



No. XXV. 
THE HERMITS SHEEP'S-HEAD BROTH. 

Two sheeps' heads, weighing five pounds and a 
quarter. Put in double with a quart and three quarters 
of a pint of water, two ounces of onions, three ounces of 
celery, four ounces of ieeks, four ounces of turnips, 
three ounces of carrots, and a bunch of sweet herbs, 
all chopped small, stewed slowly for five hours. Broth 
produced three pints and a quarter. The meat taken 
ofiF the bones after boiling weighed one pound and a 
half, and the bones two pounds. The bones were then 
broken small and put into the digester with two 
pints of water, stewed for five hours. Jelly produced, 
one pint. The bones were then re-broken, and 
stewed with one pint of water for two hours and a 
half: jelly produced, three-quarters of a pint. Total 
of good broth produced from two sheeps* heads, two 
quarts and one pint, to which the meat was added 
cut up in mouthfuls, and put in at last. 



Appendix. 415 



No. XXVL 
HERMIT'S CHICKEN BOILED IN A JUG. 

Weight of chicken, three pounds-; water, three 
quarters of a pint. Put together in a jug, the jug 
being placed in a saucepan of boiling water, and 
covered over with a saucer ; boiled two hours and a 
half; produced one pint and a half of jelly. The 
meat was then excellent for eating. The bones 
weighed, after the meat was taken off, three quarters 
of a pound ; broken up and stewed two hours in a 
digester with three pints of water, produced one pint 
and a half of jelly ; re-broken and stewed the second 
time in two pints and a half of water, produced a pint 
and a quarter of jelly. 

Total produce of Chicken. — One pint and a half of 
best chicken broth or jelly ; two pints and three-quar- 
ters of jelly from the bones : nourishing jelly in all, 
two quarts and a quarter of a pint* 



No. XXVII. 
MINCED VEAL. 



Cut (not chop) three-quarters of a pound of veal 
in small squares thus H; chop fine, onions and 



41 6 Appendix. 

celery one ounce each^ add a /////f thyme * and parsley; 
put the whole into a single saucepan, with half an 
ounce of fine top fat from soups (veal to be pre- 
ferred) ; stir incessantly on a slow heat for ten 
minutes ; add half an ounce of flour ; stir five minutes 
more ; then put the whole into a double saucepan^ in 
which has been previously warmed half a pint of veal 
stock ; let all stew together for a quarter of an hour ; 
then strain through a wire sieve and return it into the 
double saucepan ; add two tablespoonfuls of cream, 
stir well, and then put in the cold minced veal ; stir 
well again^ and let it remain in the double in a slow 
heat for half an hour before it is served 



No. XXVIII. 
HARICOT OF MUTTON. 

Boil twelve button onions till tender, and having 
cut up a neck of mutton into cutlets, put them into 
a single saucepan or stewpan, stir them round and 
round on the stove over a steady heat until browned, 
but not burnt, then put them into a double; take 
half a pint of the water in which the onions have been 
boiled (while quite hot) and add to the mutton cutlets, 

* Orange Thyme, 



==9^sa^RSS?iess^2n 



=a^ 



Appendix. 417 

adding also two ounces of raw onions or leeks^ ditto 
celery cut in pieces, one ounce of turnips, and half an 
ounce of carrots cut small, a nosegay of orange thyme, 
basil, and savory, and a sprinkling of salt. Let all 
stew together slowly till the cutlets are tender, then 
pour off the gravy, and put it away where it will cool 
as speedily as possible ; leave the cutlets and vegetables 
in the double, taking care that the vegetables are both 
over them and under them, and leave them on the 
stove to keep warm, but not in any fierce heat, 
adding the boiled button onions which had been put 
aside, that they may warm while the gravy is cooling ; 
as soon as the fat can be removed from the top of 
the gravy, take it off, and pour the gravy back upon 
the cutlets and vegetables, and as soon as it is hot it 
is ready to serve with the gravy and button . onions, 
which must be separated from the chopped onions 
or leeks. Some turnips and carrots must have 
been stewed till tender in another double saucepan 
{previously) in beef jelly stock to add to the above : 
the carrots require to be boiled for half an hour longer 
than the turnips. 



£ £ 



A 



41 8 Appendix. 



No. XXIX. 
LOBSTER SAUCK 

Take a fresh hen lobster full of spawn, put the 
spawn and the red coral into a mortar, add to it half 
an ounce of cold clarified marrow, pound it quite 
smooth, and rub it through a hair sieve with a wooden 
spoon, pull the meat of the lobster to pieces with forks, 
put it in a basin and pour a small quantity of vinegar 
over it, just enough to give it sharpness; cut one 
ounce of fresh butter into little bits, put it into a 
double with a dessert-spoonful of fine flour, mix the 
butter and flour together into a paste before you put 
it on the fire, then stir in two tablespoonfuls of milk 
over the stove (with the water boiling round the 
double) ; when well mixed add six tablespoonfuls of 
lobster jelly, stir all the same way, and when 
thoroughly blended, and the consistence of cream, 
put in the meat of the lobster to which the vine- 
gar was added, but previously drain it well from 
the vinegar by laying it on a cloth for a minute or 
two ; stir the lobster and the sauce together till the 
lobster is hot, and then having at hand a small empty 
double saucepan with boiling water, pour a small 
quantity of the lobster sauce into the empty double, 
and mix in the lobster paste made with marrow till 



Appendix. 419 

thoroughly blended, then pour the whole back to the 
lobster, and after well stirring it is ready. The 
lobster jelly is made from the shell of the lobster, 
which having been previously broken small and 
stewed well in a very clean digester, and treated in the 
same way as bones, will (when cold) produce a jelly 
highly flavoured with lobster, which adds very much 
to the flavour of the sauce. 

N.B. — The lobster paste made with the coral and 
spawn is chiefly valued on account of the scarlet 
colour it imparts to the sauce, and also for its taste, 
but its scarlet colour will be destroyed by too long 
exposure to great heat ; it is, therefore, very desirable 
that it should be put in at the very last, and mixed 
as quickly as possible. Where fish is continually 
eaten, a digester should be kept solely for stewing 
fish-shells or bones. 



No. XXX. 
SHRIMP SAUCE. 



Take the shells of the shrimps, pound them 
slightly, and stew them with a very little water in a 
double saucepan for two hours; the shrimp water 
thus made is then to be strained ofF, and used instead 

£ £ 2 



420 Appendix. 

of plain water, exactly in the same manner as ordered 
in No. 29 for Lobster Sauce, being added to the 
butter, flour, and milk. When the sauce is thus 
made, nothing more is wanted than to put .in the 
shrimps, and, stirring well, let them stew for about a 
quarter of an hour. 

N.B. — The reason the Hermit did hot recommend 
the shells of shrimps to be put into a digester, was 
because they are in too small a quantity to require it, 
and sufficient flavouring can be very well extracted in 
a small double saucepan. 



No. XXXI. 
SOUTH WALES SALMON. 

As soon as a salmon is killed it ought to be crimped, 
by making incisions between the head and the tail, 
two inches wide, and one inch deep. It should then be 
put in cold water (well water is best) for one hour, then 
put it on in a fish-kettle (if too large cut it in three) 
with as much cold water as will cover it ; one quarter 
of a pound of salt, and as much vinegar as will make 
the water slightly acid. As soon as the water is 
scalding hot, (but not to boily) take it oflT and pour 



Appendix. 42 1 

m 

the water into a pan and put it away in a cold place, 
leaving the fish in the strainer, and placing the strainer 
with the fish upon it over the pan of hot fish-water to 
cool together, where it should remain till the next day, 
when the fish should be placed again in the fish-kettle 
with the same water in which it was scalded, and when 
it is again warmed it is done. // must not boil. 

When there is more dressed salmon than can be 
eaten, it is particularly good fried in batter. It should 
be slightly sprinkled with salt before the batter is 
added, and if there is any Granville fish sauce ready, 
or to spare, a little of it put on the pieces of salmon 
under the batter is a great improvement. . 



No. XXXII. 



PRESERVATION OF JELLY STOCKS FOR SOUPS 
IN SUMMER AND WINTER. 

One of the numerous mistakes which are made 
with respect to the preservation of stocks in summery 
is that if a basin or other vessel holding a hot liquor 
is put in a pan of cold water, it will not only speedily 
cool the stock, but that if left there it would preserve 
it longer ; whereas the fact is, that unless the vessel 
containing hot liquid can be left in running water, or 



422 Appendix. 

have the cold water surrounding it continually changed^ 
a hot pan or basin, with hot soup, will speedily warm 
the cold water into which it is plunged, and in warm 
weather it is thus kept in a tepid bath, and will turn 
sour sooner, instead of the heat being carried ofF by 
the outward ^r. Another mistake is very common 
with reference to the removal of fat which congeals 
on the top of stocks. In cold weather the surround- 
ing atmosphere cools the vessel containing the broth 
or stock as quickly as the fat rises and congeals upon 
the surface ; but in warm weather the stock remains 
warm underneath the congealed fat, and therefore if 
the fat is not speedily removed after it is cold, there 
is great danger of the stock speedily turning sour 
underneath from being kept for a length of time in a 
pan which remains warm without any air on the sur- 
face ; but in cold weather, when the pan is cold, and 
surrounded by a cold atmosphere, and the stock has 
from that cause become a cold jelly, there is no 
danger of the above result ; but, on the contrary, the 
fat being allowed to remain on the top keeps the air 
from the jelly and tends to its preservation ; notwith- 
standing this a good manager will always have the 
stocks scalded frequently, by placing the pan over a 
saucepan of boiling water, taking care to break up 
the jelly by stirring it up with a wooden spoon from 



mmmmmm 



Appendix. 423 

the bottom, by which means the heat sooner pene- 
trates, and there is less danger of a careless cookmaid 
removing the pan before the liquor is thoroughly 
heated through, in which case it is certain to turn 
sour. 



No. XXXIIL 

WELSH MUTTON CHOPS. 

Cut the chops off the neck of Welsh mutton ; do 
not remove the fat, and trim as little as possible ; broil 
on a gridiron over a sharp fire ; sprinkle with a little 
pepper and salt ; take care not to scorch or to let the 
gravy fall upon the hot stove ; serve in a very hot 
dish with their own unadulterated gravy ; do not add 
butter or any made sauces : about ten minutes will 
finish them. The Hermit considered that mutton 
chops never were so good as when served between 
two hot plates separately to each person. Mutton 
chops cut from a neck or loin, and fried in batter the 
moment they are taken oflF the gridiron, make an 
excellent dish. They should be fried in top fat from 
veal or beef soups. The batter is one tablespoonful 
of fiour mixed with as much milk as will make it a 
smooth paste ; add one egg beaten up ; dip the chops 
hot into the batter, and fry for about five minutes in 



424 Appendix. 

a stewpan : a little salt may be added to the batter 
if liked^ and chopped vegetables, but they arc not 
necessary. 



No. XXXIV. 
BOILED EGGS. 



Eggs only require to be put into cold water, what- 
ever their size may be, and when the water boils the 
eggs are done. 



No. XXXV. 
BAKED APPLE DUMPLING& 

Peel and core the apples ; then make a thin paste 
with two ounces of flour and one ounce of fresh 
butter; rub the butter through the flour, then wet 
the paste with a quarter of a pint of milk, in which 
the yolk and white of an egg has been beaten up ; 
when well blended, roll the paste out and cut it into 
squares ; put one apple in the centre of every square 
of paste, and fill the hollow out of which the core 
was taken with sugar ; wrap the paste neatly round 
the apple, so as to be quite round. Glaze with white 
of egg and a little white powdered sugar, and bake in 
a slow oven for half an hour. 






Appendix. 425 



No. XXXVI. 
GRANVILLE FISH SAUCE. 

One small anchovy well pounded in a mortar, one 
shallot chopped fine, two tablespoonfuls of sherry, 
half a tablespoonful of best vinegar, six whole black 
peppercorns, a little nutmeg, and a very little mace. 
Simmer the above ingredients altogether in a double 
saucepan, stirring well all the time, until the shallot is 
soft ; then take an ounce of butter in anothe^ double 
saucepan, with as much flour as will make it into a 
stiff paste; add the other ingredients which have 
been stewing, and stir it well till scalding hot for 
about two minutes, then add six tablespoonfuls of 
cream: stir well, and strain. This sauce was con- 
sidered by the Hermit to be a difficult and com- 
plicated recipe to execute.* The only written recipe 
he possessed was old, very vague, and unsatisfactory ; 
but, nevertheless, the sauce was made in perfection 
under his directions, and the traveller wrote down 
as well as he could what he saw executed, and was 
informed that when properly made it was even better 
the second day than the first, and only required to be 
warmed over a saucepan of hot water. It is suitable 

* See page 176. 



426 Appendix. 

for salmon and every other sort of fish; but the 
Hermit drew his attention to the impossibility of any 
one making it either good or twice alike who ^iras 
deficient in the organ of taste ; as if the anchovy or 
shallot was larger or smaller, or the butter not the 
very freshest and best, or if there was too much or 
too little nutmeg and mace, or if the cream was of a 
diflferent consistency, the flavour would be altered, 
and the greatest discretion is necessary in using mace, 
which, if overdone, the whole is spoiled. The 
written recipe belonged to the Hermit's family papers, 
but his mother understood how it ought to be made^ 
and had personally taught the grandmother of 
Gwenllian. 



No. XXXVII. 
MEAGRE SOUP. 



Chop fine three turnips, four potatoes, four onions, 
one carrot and lettuce, four ounces of bread crumbs : 
put into a single stewpan with four ounces of top fat ; 
stir briskly ten minutes over a hot stove ; then add 
a spoonful or two of flour, s\ifBcient to make it into 
a stifl?" pulp; then add two quarts of bone stock,* 

* Roman Catholics cannot have the slightest objection to 
the Hermit's bone stock, which is made from bare bones of 



i^^m^^mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmammmmmmm^Km^mm 



Appendix. 427 

and after stirring well all together, pour into a double 
saucepan, and let it stew slowly for three quarters of 
an hour ; then add a pint of boiling milk, stir well, 
and pass through a wire sieve; return it into the 
double ; add any seasoning required of salt or herbs, 
&c., and it is ready to serve : it can be eaten with 
fried bread like pea-soup, or larger pieces fried and 
put into the soup at the last. 



No. XXXVIII. 
TO SALT BEEF. 



Round of beef weighing fifty pounds ; divide it as 
evenly as possible through the whole length. Lay it 
with the skin undermost and the fleshy part upper- 
most ; cut gashes across the thickest part from one end 
to the other, taking care not to cut it through. Cut 
off all the ragged pieces, and reduce the thickness of 
the inside flesh where necessary, so that it may be 



cooked meat, after every shred of meat has been taken from 
them, and is perfectly tasteless, but is a much lighter and more 
wholesome medium than the quantities of butter with which it 
is customary to make meagre soups. The one is <w much an 
animal product as the other. Fat is always allowed instead of 
butter, and is much more wholesome in all savoury cookery, 
when treated in the manner practised in the cell of the Hermit 



428 Appendix. 

filleted in a good shape, to secure which object a 
person salting must roll it round to try what the 
shape will be, and trim it until it will make a firm 
and compact round; take out all sinews and slimy 
particles, and wipe the meat thoroughly dry with a 
clean cloth, carefully cutting out the kernels; also 
trim the end of the flap, and cut it into a tapering 
shape. Have a pound of finely-pounded salt ready 
in the oven or hot closet, and sprinkle the warm salt 
into all the gashes and interstices of the meat ; then 
rub in the whole of the remainder of the salt with 
the hand until the meat has acquired a greyish-blue 
tint, and there is no place left of a bloody red colour ; 
bestow half a pound upon each half-round in this 
manner, and then putting them full length, with the 
skinny side next the stone, leave them to drain into a 
pan, which is to be placed conveniently to receive the 
brine below the salting table ; rub another quarter or 
a pound of hot salt into each round the same night, 
ditto the following morning, ditto the following 
evening, do the same on the third morning, by 
which time each half-round will have had a pound 
and a half of hot salt rubbed into it. On the third 
afternoon place both the half-rounds in a large pan 
with a sufficient quantity of brine to cover them, 
composed of a gallon of cold water to a pound of 



iiKleti Hiiaiil anil Handle, with a square Sluiie fixed in 
:eiilre fur ^^'l:'ight, to keep Salt Beef and Pork under 



■^^^^^^■■^■"^^^^^^^^^^^ ' ■« 



Appendix. 429 

salt; turn them about well in the brine the same 
evening ; the next morning the pickle will be quite 
bloody, and must be thrown away; then cover the 
rounds with a cold boiled pickle of the same strength, 
the salt and water of which must be boiled the pre- 
vious evening that it may be quite cold and ready for 
use ; turn the rounds every night and morning, and 
whenever the pickle is muddy or bloody it must be 
exchanged for fresh boiled cold pickle of the same 
strength. Boil the beef at the end of five or six days. 
If you wish to have the liquor of use for the poor, 
and the beef not oversalted for eating, it is always 
better to have a pan for each half-round if it can 
be managed, as they are easier to turn and better 
attended to. 



No. XXXIX. 
TONGUES TO SALT. 

Cut ofF all the roots, * wash well and scrape clean, 
and rub well with hot salt night and morning for two 
days, until they are no longer slimy ; especially rub 
the salt well into the parts where the roots have been 
cut off; then put the tongues into a pan and cover 
with pickle made as follows : — Three quarts of water, 

♦ See No. XX., Root of Tongue Soup. 



43 o Appendix. 

one pound and three-quarters of common salt^ quarter 
of a pound of saltpetre, quarter of a pound of bay 
salt, quarter of a pound of brown sugar, an ounce of 
black peppercorns, a little thyme ;* boil well all to- 
gether, and put to cool, and when cold cover the 
tongues. They are ready for use in a fortnight to 
three weeks ; the time differs according to the size 
and age of the tongues, but a little experience will 
soon teach a cookmaid by the touch when they are 
sufficiently hardened. If from any circumstances 
they are left in pickle until they are too salt, the evil 
can be remedied by soaking in spring water before 
they are boiled, and if very much oversalted, the 
water in which they are boiled should be poured ofF 
when they are scalding hot, and fresh boiling water 
put in to finish cooking them. 



No. XL. 
FRESH PORK TO DRES& 

Pork for pies should be deprived of all superfluous 
lard, and then stewed in a double in a quarter of a pint 
of water to the pound of meat, a little onion and 

* The above recipe was given to the Author by Mr. Howell 
(man-cook), 68, Park Street, Grosvenor Square, and has been 
often tested. 



Appendix. 431 

celery cut small, and a little salt, till the meat is 
tenden The gravy should then be strained ofF and 
the meat put aside ; the pieces of onion and celery 
can be picked out. The next day, the cold fat being 
removed from the surface of the gravy, it will be 
found a finely-flavoured and delicate savoury jelly. 
The pork meat can then be cut into proper-sized 
mouthfuls if for large pies ; superfluous fat, bone, 
or sinews being taken oflF, and a suflicient quantity ot 
the jelly put into the baking dish for gravy. If pro- 
perly done there will always be more than sufficient, 
and the overplus can be used to fill up the pie after 
it is baked, as directed for mutton pie (see page 395), 
and is very good for soups. 

For roast pork always take off^ the rind, leaving 
only as much lard adhering to the meat as can be 
eaten with it ; scotch it across and across, and sprinkle 
with sage and onion very finely chopped; baste 
well ; it will soon brown outside, and when brown 
take it down, put it into a double, and put the 
greater part of the gravy with it, reserving only 
enough to dish it with, which put aside ; put half a 
quarter of a pint of boiling water in the double to 
every pound of pork, and, keeping water boiling 
round it, finish it oflF in the double. The gravy that 
has been put aside after the cold fat has been removed 



432 Appendix. 

from the top is to be re-warmed and dished with it. 
Pork can of course be roasted entirely before the 
fire, but the advantage of cooking it in the above 
manner is, that it yields a great deal of extra gravy, 
which, when deprived of the fat, is excellent for 
family pea-soup. 

Pork sausages are preferred by the Hermit when 
made of the meat of pork previously dressed in a 
double, or the remains of pork pies, the meat to be 
pounded in a mortar, as directed in No. XVI. If 
pepper is desired for pork pies or sausages, it should 
be added at the last, as pepper would spoil all the 
overplus pork jelly stock for soups. 



No XLI. 
HAMS TO CURE. 



Beat or roll the ham well with a rolling-pin on the 
fleshy side, rub in one ounce of saltpetre and three 
ounces of salt, well mixed, finely powdered, and warm ; 
take one pound of pounded common salt, and one 
pound of treacle, mix together and make thoroughly 
hot in a double saucepan, then rub into the ham well 
by degrees (one spoonful at a time) till the whole is 
absorbed — it will take an hour to do it properly ; let it 
lie one night, the next day rub in half a pound more 



Appendix. 433 

of common salt pounded fine^ rub it in evenly all 
over the ham, let it lie till brine runs from it; 
then turn the ham in its own pickle, and rub it well 
every day till it begins to shrink, and it may then be 
hung up in an airy place and dried very gradually. 
Three weeks or a month is the ordinary time to cure 
a ham. 

N.B. — After the first rubbing with saltpetre the 
ham must be placed in a long pan, out of which it 
can be taken, and put upon the stone to rub in the 
treacle and salt, but it must be kept in the pan or the 
pickle will be lost. Hams cured in this way, as in 
all others, should be used before they are old and 
rusty, but when used in the above manner they are 
particularly good dressed very fresh, and small hams 
from porkers should be cured in this way when 
required for eating cold. 



No. XLIL 
BRAWN. 

Soak a fresh pig's head in cold salt and water — one 
pound of salt to a gallon of water — for twelve hours, 
changing when bloody; then boil in a double till 
tender with as much water as will cover it; chop 
small, sprinkle pepper and salt between each layer of 

F F 



434 Appendix. 

the chopped pig's head until the brawn tin^ or mould, 
is filled, then put on the wooden lid which fits within 
the mould, but rises above it, and place a weight 
upon it ; the next day it can be turned out. It must 
be kept in a bran pickle if not eaten immediately. 

Pigs' ears and pettitoes can be done in the same 
way, and added to the pig's head, unless wanted 
otherwise. The jelly from boiling the brawn (if it 
has not been too much salted) is a good addition to 
soup for the poor. 

PICKLE FOR BRAWN. 

Take as much water as will more than cover the 
brawn in a pan, mix in as much bran as will thicken 
it, add salt in the proportion of one pound to a gallon ; 
simmer altogether in a double for two hours ; strain 
it, and pour it off to cool. When cold, pour it off 
gently into another pan, keeping back the sediment ; 
then add in the proportion of one quart of vinegar to 
the gallon, and then pour over the brawn. 



No. XLIII. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING FOR CHILDREN 

OR INVALIDS. 

Tapioca two ounces ; put in a double with one pint 
of milk, sugar to taste^ and a bit of lemon-peel; 



It' 



r 



Appendix. 435 

when the tapioca is thoroughly soft and blended with 
the milk, put it to cool on a flat dish ; when cold put 
it into a basin, and mix in one egg beaten up, white 
and yolk together ; it must be well stirred in through 
the tapioca to be thoroughly blended; bake with 
water in the baking-tin, so that the bottom of the 
pudding may not be burnt before the top is done. 



RICE PUDDING. 

Rice, one ounce and a half, put in a double with a 
pint and a half of milk ; sweeten to taste. Let it 
stew till thoroughly soft ; flavour with lemon-peel if 
liked ; put upon a flat dish to cool ; when cold beat 
up one egg, yolk and white, and mix thoroughly 
through it ; bake with water in the baking-tin, for 
reasons above given. 

RICE PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS. 

Two tablespoonfuls of rice, two teaspoonfuls of 
white sugar, one pint and a half of skim or new 
milk ; put altogether in a baking-dish, fill the baking- 
tin with cold water, and put in a steady slow oven 
for two hours ; if the oven is very slow, it will take 
three hours. 



F F 2 



43t> Appendix. 

No. XLIV. 
CIL COVER BISCUITS. 

Two pounds of flour^ half a pint of milk^ and half 
a pint of water ; knead well^ and roll and beat hard for 
half an hour with the rolling-pin till the paste is so 
stiff it will crack ; cut out the biscuits of the siax 
marked below^ and about a quarter of an inch thick^ 
prick them, and bake in a quick oven. 




N.B. — A great deal depends on the heat of the 
oven ; it must be as sharp as possible without burn* 
ing. The biscuits when properly done are slightly 
browned, or mottled, in patches over the surface. 
These biscuits are particularlv wholesome for invalids 



■i^HVHMVVHBV^HHMHBBHBm 



Appendix. 437 

and children. The Hermit's patients often recovered 
upon them when they could not eat any bread ; and 
in fevers these biscuits broken in small bits, and soaked 
in cold water from the spring, frequently agree when 
no other nourishment can be taken. 



No. XLV. 
THE HERMIT'S ROCK CAKES. 

Four ounces fresh butter, six ounces fine sugar, 
six yolks of eggs, and one pound of flour ; beat the 
butter to a cream, then add the eggs, the sugar, 
and the flour ; mix into a stifle paste, and add four 
whites of eggs and beat all together well for a whole 
hour; add previously caraway seeds, or currants 
well plumped to the flour. Drop the mixture on the 
baking-tin in rough pieces about the size of a large 
walnut and the shape of little rocks. Bake in a 
quick oven for twenty minutes. 

N.B. — Two persons are required to beat these 
cakes by turns for an hour. They keep well in tin 
boxes. 

No. XLVI. 

THE HERMITS RICE BREAD. 

Six pounds of flour and one pound boiled cold 
rice well mixed through the flour ; then add a quarter 



438 Appendix. 

of a pint of barm^ leave it to rise for half an hour^ 
then knead it with the water in which the rice was 
boiled, and in half an hour it is ready for baking, if 
the barm is good. Bake for an hour in a moderate 
oven. 

RICE BREAD (ANOTHER SORT). 

Boil a quarter of a pound of rice till quite soft, put 
it on a sieve to drain, when cold mix it well with 
three-quarters of a pound of flour and a spoonful of 
barm ; let it stand for three hours to rise, then knead 
it up, and roll it in about a handful of flour so as to 
make it dry enough to put in the oven ; about an 
hour and a quarter will bake it. It should not be 
cut till a day or two old, and then looks like a honey- 
comb. 

No. XLVII. 
FOR ST. VITUS'S DANCK 

Take as much mistletoe (that which grows on the 
whitethorn) and moss from the bark of the ash-tree 
as three quarts of water will cover, boil them till 
they are reduced to three pints ; strain it, and, when 
cold, take a teacupful three times a day. 

N.B,^ — This prescription actually cured a Welsh 
boy when all other means had failed. 



Appendix. 439 



No. XLVIII. 
BEES' FOOD. 
One teacupful of treacle and two of water. Simmer 
it for half an hour with a little salt in a jug plunged 
in a saucepan of boiling water ; keep in a cool place, 
and tie the jug over with paper ; feed the bees by 
pouring a little every night into a wooden scoop, 
which put into the hole of the hive, and take out the 
first thing in the morning. 



PASTE FOR APPLE OR OTHER TARTS.* 

Take four ounces of fine flour on the board, rub 
one ounce of fresh butter through the flour, mix the 
yolk of one egg smooth in a quarter of a pint of 
skim milk, wet the flour with the mixture to a proper 
temper, roll it out, then line the edge of two tart 
dishes, put in the fruit and cover with the paste, 
which will be suflicient for two tarts ; the white of the 
egg is to be beat with a fork upon a plate till it is 
in small bubbles, then put it evenly all over the top 
paste of the tarts with a feather, put the tarts in the 
baking-tin into which cold water has previously been 
poured, place them in the oven for a few minutes 
until the egg froth is sufliciently set to be sugared, 

* The «/mumbered recipes are those which are not referred 
to in Hermit's lessons. 



44^ Appendix. 

take them out, strew sugar over them quickly^ and 
replace them in the oven till baked sufficiently. 

N.B. — Practical experience alone can teach the 
proper heat of the oven ; it is not absolutely neces^ 
sary to put them in the oven before they are sugared^ 
but some persons succeed better in making the rough 
glaze by doing so ; others produce exactly the same 
efFect by sugaring the white of egg as soon as it is 
put on, before the tart is placed in the oven. 



QUINCES FOR ADDITION TO APPLE TARTS. 

Cut the quinces in quarters. To five pounds ot 
fruit put three pounds of sugar and half a quarter of 
a pint of water ; put them in pint jars ; put plates 
or saucers over the jars, and let them simmer very 
gently for three hours placed in boiling water ; put 
the peels in with them, and take them out when 
done ; the overplus of syrup may be bottled, and also 
used to flavour tarts. It will prevent waste of sugar, 
if the peels are stewed the first hour without sugar, 
then take out the peels and add the sugar, and simmer 
for two hours longer. 

TO DRY HERBS. 

Cut the herbs on a dry day just before they 
flower ; cut off the hard parts of the stems, and dry 



Appendix. 441 

the tender tops and leaves in an oven (or hot closet 
or screen) between two dishes, as quickly as possible, 
provided they are not burnt; pick ofF the leaves 
while hot, pound them well in a mortar, and put 
them into well-stoppered bottles ; they ought to be 
green but crisp. The best time for drying herbs is 
when they are in bud.* 

Basil is in the best state for drying from the 
middle of August and three weeks after. 

Knotted Marjoram, from the beginning of July 
and during the same. 

Winter Savory, the latter end of July and 
throughout August. 

Summer Savory, the latter end of July and 
throughout August. 

Thyme, Lemon-thyme, Orange-thyme, during 
June and July. 

Mint, latter end of June and during July. 

Sage, August and September. 

Tarragon, June, July, and August. 

Chervil, May, June, and July. 

* All good managers should keep this calendar by them, 
and take care to gather their herbs when in bud (not blossom); 
and those who have a gardener should give him a duplicate 
list, that the herbs may not be sent in for winter preservation 
when past their prime. 



442 Appendix. 

Burnet and Basil^ June^ July> and August. 
Parsley, May, June, and July. 
Fennel, May, June, and July. 
Elder Flowers, May, June, and July. 



RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Bruise eight pounds of raspberries and pour on 
them three pints of good gooseberry or sugar vinegar, 
let them stand twenty-four hours, frequently stirring 
them with a wooden spoon ; put six pounds of loaf- 
sugar, broken in large lumps, into an earthen wessciy 
and the fruit and vinegar into a jelly-bag, wrung out 
in boiling water ; let it drop upon the sugar till the 
juice is drained out, pressing it gently now and then ; 
pour the liquor into a preserving-pan, and let it 
simmer until it boils up slowly over a moderate fire, 
and when cold bottle it. When wanted for use, put 
one or two spoonfuls in a tumbler of spring water, 
and, if too sweet, add a few drops of vinegar when 
drunk. A stone jar is the best to boil it in^ set in 
a vessel of boiling water. 



DUCHESS OF BEDFORD'S TEA-CAKES. 

Take two pounds of fine flour, three ounces of 
pounded sugar, four ounces fresh butter, four eggs 



Appendix. 443 

well beaten, one large tablespoonful, or half an ounce, 
of barm (or German yeast), one pint of new milk ; 
melt the butter in the milk, which must be warmed, 
mix all together and beat it well ; let it stand one 
hour, then put it in well-buttered small round tins ; 
let them be well proved. Bake in a quick oven 
twenty minutes. 

RHUBARB JAM.* 

Boil an equal quantity of rhubarb cut up, and 
gooseberries before they are quite ripe, with three- 
quarters of a pound of crystallized moist sugar to one 
pound of fruit. When boiled, it will make an excel- 
lent jam, similar to apricot. 

It will keep some time in a cool dry place, tied 
down as usual. 

APPLE BREAD. 

Boil twelve apples till soft ; core and peel them, 
break them up, and pulp through a sieve ; put sugar 
to taste, and mix them with twice its weight of dough, 
and bake them in a very slow oven. 

* This receipt was given to the Hermit by the venerable 
Mrs. Faulkener, of Tenby, South Wales, aged ninety-three, for 
many years landlady of the principal hotel there (fAen the 
White Lion). 



444 Appendix. 



THE HERMITS MINCE-PIES- 

Squeeze the juice out of three large lemons^ boil 
the rind (till a straw will go through) in several 
waters to extract the bitterness ; chop them fine^ add 
half a pound of sweet almonds pounded fine, one 
pound of currants, one pound limip sugar, one pound 
raw marrow, cinnamon, nutmeg, and a very little 
mace ; mix it up to a proper consistency. The cur- 
rants must be very well cleaned and plumped by- 
pouring boiUng water on them, and drying in dry 
cloths before the fire, and picking them well. To be 
baked in very small tin pattipans, the paste being 
made with clarified marrow, not butter. 



A COMPLICATED VEAL PIE, BUT VERY GOOD, 

TO BE EATEN COLD. 

Quarter of a pound of suet, quarter pound bread 
crumbs, a tablespoonful of parsley leaves chopped 
fine, a small quantity of tarragon and basil chopped 
fine, half a tablespoonful of lemon thyme, ditto sweet 
marjoram chopped fine and eschalot, all to be chopped 
fine, and pounded, also one tablespoonful and a half 
of rind of lemon, cut as thin as possible, and pounded 
with a lump of sugar that has been well rubbed on 
the lemon before the peel has been cut off, chop and 



Appendix. 445 

pound a small quantity of lean dressed ham or tongue. 
Bake raw lean veal in a Ffwrn fach with one-quarter 
of a pint of water to the pound, and put pure fat 
over it (its own is the best) in a very slow oven, or 
stew it in a double saucepan. After it is done pour 
off the gravy, which will become jelly, cut in very 
small pieces, and pound it in a mortar with all the 
above ingredients moistened with the veal-jelly ; and 
after all are thoroughly mixed and pounded together, 
beat up the yolk and white of an egg, mix it with all 
the pounded ingredients, then beat it all well together 
again. Put a layer of very thin boiled cold ham at 
the bottom of the dish, then add the forcemeat till 
the dish is full. 

It must be moistened with the jelly stock which came 
from the veal. The dish is to be first lined with pufF 
paste, and carefully baked with water in the baking- 
tin, well soaked through in the oven, and yet not dried 
or burned. When cold, to be turned upside down. 



THE WELSH HERMITS FAVOURITE CHICKEN 

AND LEEK PIE. 

Boil a chicken as directed in No. I., cut it up into 
tidy pieces, not too large, flavour the chicken jelly 
which it will have produced with a little salt and 
celery, onion, and various herbs to taste ; scald some 



^ 



446 Appendix. 

small leeks by pouring boiling water upon them^ then 
split them^ and cut them in pieces about an inch long ; 
lay the pieces of chicken in the pie-dish with slices of 
cold boiled tongue^ the pieces of scalded leeks> fine- 
chopped parsley, and the chicken jelly flavoured as 
above described. The paste to be the same as ordered 
for mutton-pie, No. VII. Fill the baking- tin with water; 
when the paste is done take off the top ornament, and 
with a jug pour in through the hole in which it was 
placed three tablespoonfuls of fresh cream* previously- 
heated, by placing the jug containing it in a saucepan 
of boiling water ; replace the ornament, and serve. 

N.B. — Mutton, beef, and veal make excellent pies 
prepared in the above manner; but the veal also 
requires tongue or ham intermingled with it, and a 
very little pepper as well as salt may by some persons 
be considered an improvement to mutton and beef^ 
though the former is not necessary, and it is more 
wholesome without spice. 



THE HERMITS MUTTON STEW. 

Necks and scrags of mutton, eight pounds, cut up , 
celery, half a pound, chopped small ; onions, half a 
pound, chopped small ; water, two quarts. Stew in 
the double three hours. It will produce two quarts 



jippendix. 447 

and one pint of good broth. Next day, cut oflF all 
superfluous fat and bare bones ; put the meat on again 
in a double, with as much of the clear broth as is 
sufficient to moisten the stew, with half a pound more 
raw chopped onions and four pounds potatoes which 
have been boiled and cut up; all the fat must be 
previously removed from the broth when cold. The 
whole to stew together for one hour. 

N.B. — There is always more broth produced 
than is required for the stew, and the overplus can 
be kept for use as clear, pure mutton broth, as the 
stronger flavour required for the stew is obtained by 
the chopped onions added with the potatoes, and any 
overplus of the sauce which is to spare when the 
stew is dished will resemble, potato soup, and is an 
excellent addition to other thickened soups. 



ROAST HARK 

Hares in general when roasted have black heads, 
ears burnt to tinder, and the top of the shoulders, 
and very often the whole body, scorched and dried 
up. The proper way to roast a hare is first of all to 
soak it in several waters for an hour and a half (and 
having got rid of all the blood from the neck by 
cutting the neck-string, and pouring warm water over 



448 Appendix. 

the incision to efiect the above purpose) ; the hare 
must then be well dried, and a piec6 of paper satu- 
rated with liquid fat put all over the head and neck, 
under which there must be as much pure fat as can 
be tied on under the paper. Lay slices of cold boiled 
pork or bacon all over the back, which should also 
be covered with oiled paper for the first three quarters 
of an hour. The paper can afterwards be taken ofi^ 
and the bacon also, when nearly done, to finish the 
roasting ; brown it and froth it. The hare must aiso 
be continually well basted. The art in roasting a 
hare is to prevent its being dry, and yet to have it 
brown and well frothed at the last ; it will take from 
one to two hours according to the size ; it should be 
tied upon a spit with skewers and roasted horizon- 
tally. Spits should never be put through anything 
that can possibly be avoided. 

The meat remaining from roast hare should be 
hashed in the jelly made from its bones, treated 
exactly in the same manner as directed for other 
bones. They will make more jelly than re- 
quired for hashing the meat. If the hash is 
not • all eaten, it will make excellent hare soup 
with the overplus of the jelly. If more stock is 
required, the jelly from the bones of other game or 
poultry can be used also, and the whole flavoured 



Appendix. 449 

with herbs and vegetables as required, the remainder 
of the hash to be added half an hour before it is 
wanted.* 

HARE STUFFING. 

Two ounces of beef suet chopped fine, three ounces 
of fine bread crumbs, half an ounce of parsley, mar- 
joram, winter savory and grated lemon-peel, half an 
ounce of shallot, nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Mix 
with the white and yolk of an egg. If not stiff, it 
is good for nothing; put it in the hare, and sew 
it up. 

GOOSE OR DUCK STUFFING. 

Two ounces of scalded onion, one ounce of green 
sage leaves, four ounces of bread crumbs, yolk and 
white of an egg, pepper and salt, and some minced 
apple. ' The flavour is much milder if the onions are 
scalded previously. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Veal cutlets should be half an inch thick, cut round 
and flattened ; the trimmings which come oflF the 
veal (by cutting them round) should be put into a 
double saucepan with two or three spoonfuls of water, 

* Three pounds of hare bones will make three pints of hare 
jelly. 

G G 



450 Appendix. 

and finely-chopped leek roots^ orange thyme^ and 
marjory^ and a small piece of lemon«peel. Stew them 
slowly two hours^ and then strain ofF; while the gravy 
is being made the raw cutlets should have a few drops 
of lemon-juice squeezed upon them on a dish, and 
some chopped sweet herbs sprinkled over them ; 
take all the fat off the veal gravy as soon as cold ; 
chop very fine two ounces of leek roots, one ounce 
of celery, and a quarter of half an ounce of carrot, 
and stir in a single saucepan over the fire, with the 
fat obtained from the veal gravy ; if any additional 
fat is wanted, let it be taken from veal stock or 
chicken stock. Stir the vegetables and fat together 
briskly for ten minutes, then add as much flour as 
will make it into a soft paste, and stir five minutes 
more ; then add the whole mass to the veal gravy, 
which should be ready heated in another double sauce- 
pan, and, when it has simmered for three quarters of 
an hour, add two tablespoonfuls of cream ten minutes 
before it is strained; return the sauce, without the 
vegetables, into the double saucepan, and it is ready 
to dish with the cutlets ; but if any additional flavour 
is wanted it can be previously added. The cutlets 
are to be rolled in egg and bread crumbs, and fried, 
in the same way as fish, in clarified top fat. The 
veal trimmings, after the gravy has been made, will 



Appendix. 45 1 

be useful to make sausages, after being pounded in 
the mortar with a little veal jelly, and a little boiled 
ham or tongue, and flavoured with sage. 



WELSH LEEK BROTH OR SOUP. 

Blanch five or six fine winter leeks by putting 
them for five minutes in boiling water, after cutting 
oflf'part of the head, leaving some of the green leaves 
attached to the roots ; having split each leek in half 
lengthways, and cutting one half in three or four 
pieces, then add them to a fowl trussed for boiling, 
with half a pint of water to the pound weight, in a 
double stewpan, adding a little celery chopped small, 
and herbs and salt to taste. Let the water boil slowly 
round in the outer vessel until the chicken is tender and 
nearly fit to eat, then put in two dozen French plums 
whole ; draw the saucepan aside to keep hot, but not 
to overboil the fowl. In about half an hour the plums 
will be plump and fit to eat, before which time take 
out the fowl, cut it into neat pieces, removing the 
bones, and put the pieces into the tureen, pouring 
the leek broth or soup over them, the leeks being 
then partly in pulp. If too thick, some additional 
veal or chicken jelly can be added to it. The plums 
are eaten with the meat and vegetables. 

6 G 2 



45 2 Appendix. 



SHOULDER OF VEAL BOILED. 

The jelly stock from veal boiled in the following 
manner was the usual foundation for the Hermit's 
white soups. 

Shoulder weighing ten pounds, celery half a pound 
chopped fine, onions half a pound chopped fine, 
water one quart and half a pint ; stewed in double till 
the meat is fit for eating. 

It produced one quart and a pint and a half of 
stock, which when cold was a firm jelly. 

The next day the shoulder being r^-warmed in a 
double in its own stock (which is improved thereby), 
can be served with the following sauce : — Milk, one 
pint ; water, one quarter of a pint ; one pint and a 
quarter of bone stock ; half a pound of rice ; suet or 
veal's top fat, two ounces. Stir well, and stew in 
double three hours and a half, with four ounces of 
pounded ham or cold boiled pork, or else salt to taste, 
with finely-chopped onion : five minutes before it is 
served put in two or three ounces of fresh chopped 
parsley, and again stir well. The above sauce is not 
only a palatable accompaniment with veal, but an ex- 
cellent foundation for a family white soup afterwards. 
Fried bacon or sausages can be served as accompani- 
ments. 



Appendix. 453 

N.B. — The cruel practice of bleeding calves before 
they are killed, to make the meat unnaturally white, 
destroys the flavour of veal, and renders a meat which 
is not light of digestion really unwholesome.* 



GLAZE OF COWS-HEEL. 

Scald a fresh cow's-heel to get the hair olF; then, 
after well scraping, crack it across in several places, 
and chop up and put it in a digester with four quarts 
of water, and stew till it is reduced to two quarts ; then 
pour into a pan till the next day. Then take all the 
oil off the top, and bottle it for the use of the stables. 
(This is pure neat's-foot oil.) The jelly under it will 
be hard, and is the material to make glaze, which is 
coloured by stirring quickly over the fire till it becomes 
a fine yellow bronze, and is thick enough to adhere 
to the spoon. There is less waste if coloured with a 
little burned sugar, as it requires less boiling down for 
colouring. 

N.B. — The cow-heel bones ought to be done a 
second and third time ; r^-broken with fresh water in 
digester; and will make stock each time. Second 
time, put two quarts of water and reduce to one 

* This cruel practice is not followed abroad, which is the 
reason that veal often agrees there with those who cannot eat 
it in England. 



454 Appendix. 

quart ; third dme, one full quarts and reduce to one 
pint. 

It it much less wasteful to procure a cowV 
heel for glaze than to allow glaze to be made of 
trimmings of meat, &c. &c. Glaze is only for oma-^ 
ment to varnish meat. It is not supposed to be eaten, 
but, if it is put on food, it ought to be wholesome. 
The usual custom of making glaze of what is called 
^^anythingy* but means "everything," otherwise eatable, 
destroys a large quantity of food for no good purpose. 

MUSHROOM CATCHUP. 

Full-grown mushrooms are the best for catchup ; 
cut them across and across stems and skins, put a 
layer at the bottom of an earthen pan and sprinkle 
with salt, and continue till you have used all the 
mushrooms you have ready ; sprinkle moderately with 
salt over every layer, let them stand three hours, then 
pound them up in a mortar, and let them stand two 
days, stirring them up with wooden spoons twice 
every day ; then pour the whole mass into jars, and 
to every quart add half an ounce of whole black 
pepper, ditto allspice; put the jars into an outside 
double surrounded by boiling water ; let the water 
boil slowly and steadily round them two hours and a 
half, then take out the jars and pour the juice through 



Appendix. 455 

a sieve into a clean double saucepan^ and let the water 
boil around it for one hour more, then pour it into 
a jug or basin, and let it stand in a cold place till the 
next day, when very gently pour it ofF into half or 
quarter-pint bottles which have been rinsed out with 
spirits of wine ; cork close, and cement. If it is ill- 
corked and not kept dry, it will spoil. The pepper- 
corns and allspice should be bottled with it, and the 
strainings can be made use of for hashes, &c. &c., if 
not kept longer than two or three days. The sub- 
stance of the mushrooms which is left behind after 
strainihg, should be pressed down flat on a plate 
covered over with another plate, and dried in a hot 
closet, or in a screen before the fire. When dry, 
pound and put in bottles, and use in the same way as 
catchup, where mushroom flavour is desired. 

N.B. — Mushroom catchup is generally made with 
putrefied mushrooms, and, even when mushrooms are 
fresh, it is customary to keep them so long in a pan 
mashed, or unmashed, that they are unfit for use, the 
best flavour being gone and the mushrooms in a very 
unwholesome state. The mushrooms should be as 
freshly gathered as possible for catchup, and should 
never be kept longer than is recommended in the 
above recipe. 



456 Appendix. 



THE HERMITS BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 

Cut rice bread (sec page 437) of two days old in 
thin slices, without crust, butter thinly with cold 
butter, fit them into the tart-dish you intend to use, 
then take them out and pour three-quarters of an inch 
of rather thick batter (flavoured with sugar and lemon- 
peel) into the bottom of the dish. Put the dish into 
the oven for three or four minutes to consolidate the 
batter, then take it out and lay a layer of slices on the 
batter, then pour out of a jug a sufficiency of thinner 
batter (similarly flavoured) to moisten the bread, 
then sprinkle a layer of currants well plumped, then 
another layer of sKces of bread, pouring in batter 
in the same manner over each layer until the dish is 
filled to within half a quarter of an inch of the top ; 
then make your batter thicker, so as to be of the same 
consistence as the first layer in the bottom ofi the dish, 
and with this {thicker) batter fill the dish evenly to 
the edge, and bake with water in the tin. If pro- 
perly made it will be firm and yet light, the batter at 
the bottom will keep the bread from drying up with 
too fierce a heat, the thicker batter on the top ought 
to cover the upper layer of currants, and prevent that 
common but very unpleasant effect of having the 
slices of bread at the top of the dish scorched and 



Appendix. 457 

curled up, and covered with currants burned to a 
cinder. The object of having thinner batter poured 
between the layers of bread is to soften the bread, as 
otherwise the bread would not absorb the batter and 
be flavoured by it. 

WELSH CARROT PLUM PUDDING. 

Haifa pound of raisins, half-pound of currants, half- 
pound of suet chopped fine, one ounce lemon-peel, 
one nutmeg, two large carrots, and two tablespoonfuls 
of flour ; mix all well together, but the carrots must be 
boiled and pulped previous to mixing with the other 
ingredients, and the whole must be boiled two hours« 



ANOTHER. 
Half-pound of flour, quarter of a pound of suet 
chopped very fine, quarter-pound bread crumbs, 
three-quarters of a pound grated carrot, quarter of a 
pound of raisins stoned, quarter of a pound well- 
washed and plumped currants, quarter-pound brown 
sugar, beat up two whole eggs and the yolks of four 
in a gill of milk ; grate a little nutmeg into it, and add 
it to the former. Boil at least one hour. 



FAMILY PLUM PUDDING. 
Flour twenty-six pounds, suet seven pounds, raisins 
nine pounds, currants four pounds, sugar four and 



45^ Appendix, 

a half pounds. If not eaten the day boiled, boU hadf 
the time the first day and the other half the second, 
or only warm through the second time, as oirer- 
boiling makes the plum puddings too soft. 

Cow-heel is an excellent substitute for suet in 
making plum puddings. It must be well boiled pre- 
viously, and not chopped too fine. 

The subjoined pudding casket,* made of tin, was 



invented by the Hermit for boiling plum puddings 
when made in rolls to be cut in slices, the Hermit 
having observed that when plum puddings were boiled 
in cloths only the water became a sort of raisin and 
currant soup, and that the waste of ingredients alto- 
gether was considerable. 

Each pudding turned out of these tin caskets can 
be divided into ten thick slices. The Hermit had a 
wooden gauge for the widows with points at equal 
distances, and each pudding was thus marked in a 

* These Plum Pudding Caskets are to be had of Richard 
Jones, Tinman, Abergavenny, South Wales. Price is. (td. 
each, or \s. ^d. by the dozen. 



Appendix. 459 

moment (as soon as turned out) and cut up in the 
most exact manner. A thin piece of cloth laid under 

the lid after the tin is filled is all that is required^ and 

» 

the lid, being shut, is tied round with strong pack- 
thread passed through the loops in the lid ; and when 
twenty or thirty puddings are boiled at the same time 
in a boiler, five or six can be tied together, and taken 
out of the boiler When done with a hook by a loop 
in the string. 

ROWLEY POWLEY PUDDING. 

Skin and chop one pound of beef suet very fine, 
put it into a mortar and pound it well, moistening 
with a little sweet-oil until it is the consistency of 
butter. 

Put one pound of flour upon your pastry slab, 
make a hole in the centre, in which put a teaspoonfiil 
of salt, and mix it with cold water into a softish 
flexible paste with the right hand ; dry it oflT a little 
with flour until you have well cleared the paste from 
the slab, but do not work it more than you can pos- 
sibly help; let it remain two minutes on the slab, 
and then lay the prepared suet on the paste ; press it 
out flat with the hand, then fold over the edges of 
the paste so as to hide the suet, and roll it to the 
thickness of half an inch ; fold over one third, over 



460 Appendix. 

which pass the rolling-pin ; fold over the other third, 
thus forming a square ; place it with the ends before 
you; shake a little flour over and under, repeat 
the rolls and turns twice more ; flour a baking sheet, 
lay it in a cool place for half an hour; then roll 
twice more, and put in a cool place for a quarter of an 
hour ; give two more rolls (making seven in all}, 
and it is ready for use. 

Roll it out and cover with jam ; tie in a loose cloth, 
and serve up cut in slices. This pudding may also 
be boiled in a bason and turned out. 



BREAD PUDDING. 

A pint of bread crumbs in a double saucepan with 
as much milk as will cover them ; the peel of a 
lemon, a little nutmeg, and a bit of cinnamon ; boil 
about a quarter of an hour, sweeten, take out the 
cinnamon and add two eggs, beat all well together. 
If baked, it will require half an hour ; if boiled, more 
than an hour. 



QUEEN CHARLOTTE'S ORANGE PUDDING. 

Take two oranges and one lemon, grate the peel 
oflF them and mix with the juice, into which put a 
quarter of a pound of sugar and the yolks of five 



Appendix. 46 1 

eggs ; then make a little paste for the bottom of the 
dish. It must be baked slowly in a moderate oven, 
but yet be browned at the top. 



APPLE SNOW. 

Roast four or five apples that look white, work 
the pulp through a sieve ; take the weight of one egg 
of pulp, the same of powdered sugar ; beat up the 
apple sugar and the white of an egg together until 
they become as white as snow. When nearly beaten 
up, put in as much ground alum as will cover a six- 
pence, and, when quite beaten, put it very lightly 
piled in a dish. If liked, cream or custard can be 
eaten with it. 

Preserved raspberries or strawberries can be used 
as well as apples. 

LEMON CREAMS. 

Rub three lemons with sugar until the aroma is 
absorbed, squeeze the juice of one upon the sugar, 
put it in a large china bowl, add a quart of cream, 
and whisk it continually till the froth arises ; take it 
from the top with a spoon, and place it on a sieve ; 
put it in the glasses a shoit time before it is sent to 
table. It will take nearly half a pound of sugar to 
sweeten a quart of cream with the lemon-juice. 



462 Appendix. 



LEMON JELLY. 

Eight sheep shanks broken up and put to soak 
over night in cold water ; then put on the fire or stove 
in a digester with two quarts df water, and stew until 
it is reduced to one ; but if done in a double sauce- 
pan, one quart of water will be sufficient, and double 
time required, but there will not be any danger of 
waste. Pour oflF to cool, and the next day take off all 
the oil from the top, and what will not come off with 
a spoon can be wiped off with a clean soft cloth, or 
absorbed with soft paper. The jelly ought to be very 
firm, so that it would cut up in pieces : to one quart 
of jelly put half a pound of lump sugar broken up, 
the peel of one lemon and the juice of three lemons, 
three eggs, whites and shells ; beat up together, whisk 
the whole over the stove till ready to boil, then draw 
it oflF sufficiently to keep it simmering slowly for a 
quarter of an hour, putting hot cinders or hot char- 
coal on the lid of the stewpan ; then, having the jelly 
bag ready and warm, having squeezed it out in scalds 
ing water and suspended before the fire with a basin 
under it, pour the jelly through the jelly bag, return 
the first strainings back a second time into the bag 
till all has run through. The jelly is then finished, 
and may either run into a mould or be allowed to 



Appendix. 46 3 

cool in a basin and cut out as wanted. Shank jelly is 
lighter of digestion than calves'-foot jelly, and quite as 
good for every other purpose. 



TURIN STICKS. 

Two pounds of white flour, two ounces of fresh 
butter. Rub the butter well into the flour ; add two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and suflicient pure 
cold spring water to mix it into a stiff paste ; cut into 
little lumps of equal size, roll out into long thin 
sticks as quickly as possible ; bake in rather a quick 
oven. 

PUMPKINS. 

Few vegetables are so little understood, and, con- 
sequently, so much undervalued in Great Britain, as 
pumpkins. Perhaps Gower, in South Wales, is the 
only part of the United Kingdom where pumpkins 
are grown as an article of diet by the rural popula- 
tion from their appreciation of their nutritive quali- 
ties ; and there they are to be seen as on the Con- 
tinent, hanging from the ceilings for winter store, in 
cottages and farmhouses, and any little spare corner 
in the field or garden is made use of to place the small 
mound in which to sow a few pumpkin seeds. The 
varieties of this plant are so numerous that it would 



464 Appendix. 

be beyond the limit of any cookery book to attempt 
an enumeration of comparative merits, from the 
Vegetable Marrow to the Turk's Turban and the 
Yellow Pumpkin, which grows to such a size as to fill 
a wheelbarrow, but, as the Hermit was fully aware of 
the merits of this vegetable, it will not be out of place 
to note shortly from among his recipes a few of the 
modes in which pumpkins are available, wholesome, 
and nourishing in cookery. For white soup they can 
be used alone, with merely the addition of onion, celery, 
and sweet herbs for flavouring, in the same manner 
as the numerous vegetables mentioned in the White 
Soup of Gover. (See page 391.) They are excel- 
lent when boiled, sprinkled with salt and sweet herbs, 
and fried in egg and crumbs, like soles. Also plain, 
boiled in slices, and served with brown gravy. In 
Gower they are added to hashed meat, made into pies 
with apples, and put into soup. There is also a dish 
made by the natives which seems to evince an Eastern 
origin, which is made of pumpkin, mutton, and cur- 
rants. Pumpkins have one peculiar quality in addition 
to a good deal of natural sweetness, which is, that 
they will absorb and retain the flavour of whatever 
they are cooked with ; this where fruit is scarce* is a 

* The Heraiit was of opinion that the great scarcity and 
deamess of fruit in Great Britain, which is severely felt by the 



mKimr^ 



Appendix. 465 

very important characteristic^ as the pumpkin is both 
wholesome and nourishing in itself^ but^ not having 
any flavour^ its imbibing the flavour of any fruit if 
mixed with it is an especial advantage. If stewed with 
plums^ it tastes exactly like them in puddings and 
tarts ; the same with apples, rhubarb, or gooseberries 
and for savoury cookery it would be difficult to say 
in what dish it may not be used with advantage as an 
addition. 

In America there are an endless variety of puddings 
of which pumpkins are the principal ingredient ; and 
they are very easily grown. On one occasion they 
appeared in a field of mangel-wurzel in South Wales, 

poor, arises from the want of attention to hardy sorts of fruit 
with which the climate of Great Britain will agree. In many 
parts of Germany, where the climate is much more severe, and 
where also there is a great deal of rain, there is abundance of 
fruit ; pears, plums, and peaches, and in many places standard 
apricots. It is very true that the fruit is frequently very inferior 
in flavour to the fruit from English walled gardens, but it is 
equally good and wholesome when stewed or preserved. It is 
very singular that the Horticulturists of Great Britain do not 
pay more attention to the introduction of those kinds of fruit- 
trees which are hardy and bear abundantly, instead of sacrificing 
everything to the magnitude of specimens. Fruit for the million 
is much wanted. The purple peach (of Bonn), which is 
hardy and a standard, seems to be unknown in Great Britain. 
The pulp as well as the juice is the colour of a mulberry. 
(Traveller's Note) 

H H 



466 Appendix. 

to the great surprise of the owner, as it was not in 
that part of the Principalit7 where pumpkins were 
grown. The seeds had been accidentally mixed with 
those of the mangel-wurzel ; they were treated in the 
same manner, and they came to as great perfection as 
if they had been grown in a garden. This sort was 
the large orange species, called in some places ^' Turk's 
Turban,'' around which there is a beautiful strip of 
narrow network exactly resembling nun's lace : this 
species is particularly sweet and hardy. There are 
very few kinds of gourds or pumpkins that are not 
edible; but some of the ornamental kinds are un- 
eatable, or have medical properties, such as the 
colocynth, which so closely resembles an orange in 
appearance. 



Appendix. 



467 



LOSS IN ROASTING A WELSH 
LEG OF MUTTON. 

J. d. 
Weight before roasting, 

si lbs. at lod, per lb. . . 4 4I 

Loss by weight of bone, 10 

oz. at 10^. per lb. after 

roasting 06} 



Balance 3 iq\ 

Fat, 4 oz. at 4//. per lb., loss 
at the rate of 6d. per lb. . o i) 



3 8i 



LOSS IN ROASTING AN ENG- 
LISH LEG OF MUTTON. 

s, d. 
Weight before roasting, 

12 lbs. at lod. per lb. . . 10 o 

Loss by weight of bone, 

1} lb. at lo/. . . . . I 5i 



Balance 8 6i 

Fat melted away, taken from 
dripping-pan, 3 lbs. 2 oz. 
at 4//. per lb., loss at the 
rate of 6^. per lb. . . . i 6} 



6 11} 



Loss in Welsh mutton, *j\d, in 
4f. 4^^., or 31 in 210, nearly one- 
seventh ; consequently^ more than 
half the saving in food as com- 
pared with English mutton. 



Loss in English mutton, 3r. o\d. in 
iQr., or 364 in 120, nearly one in 
three ; consequently, more than 
double the loss in English mutton 
as an article of food. 



The foregoing Table will show that the loss on an 
English leg of mutton is nearly one in three^ while 
the loss in the Welsh leg of mutton is only one in 
seven ! the loss being more than one-half /^jj in Welsh 
mutton than English. It must also be remembered 
that in the ordinary manner of roasting the fat above- 
mentioned would eidier be utterly lost, or not worth 
abqve 7.d. a pound, so that the loss in English mutton 
would in reality be much greater. In roasting the 
English leg of mutton no basting fat was needed ; in 
the Welsh leg one-quarter of a pound was used, and 

H H 2 



468 Appendix. 

one-quarter of a pound was taken from the dripping- 
pan afterwards. In the ordinary method of cooking, 
the bone would be a dear loss in both cases ; but even 
the Hermit's jelly fix>m the bone would not go very 
far towards repairing the loss of 3J. c\d. in every ten 
shillings t And if the Hermit's process of basting and 
clarification of (at was not adopted, the is. Sd. in 
the above Table set down to the credit ^de must be 
added to the loss, or at least one-half of it. There 
are few greater errors than to suppose fat, large 
animals are either wholesome or economical 



THE HERMITS BAKED BEEF FOR CHRISTMAS. 
Take half or whole rounds of beef, cut and prepared 
as described (see page 427), roll them up, and skewer 
them into rounds, and put each of them into the outer 
part of a (round) "double" (see Plate 4), which is 
made of iron, or galvanized iron ; place on the top of 
the round of beef, a star of wood the proper size to go 



within the top of the vessel, then put a stiff paste ot 



Appendix. 469 

coarse brown flour (or flour mixed with bran) over the 
star to prevent any evaporation^ and pour in as much 
water with a sprinkling of salt as will rise to about 
two inches, then put on the lid and bake in a brick 
oven ; the time must, of course, depend upon the size 
and weight of the rounds. When done the paste at 
the top will look like gingerbread,* the gravy will be 
very strong and abundant, and the meat will be juicy 
and nicely browned. The gravy being poured oflT, 
and the fat taken from it when cold, it is r^-warmed to 
dish up. The Hermit, when he required a number 
of these rounds dressed at once for a Christmas feast, 
used to bake them the day before, and the next day 
r^.warmed them in the inner doubles in their own 
gravy, with hot water in the outer vessel, on a large 
stove. In this way they were all done punctually to 
the same time, equally well cooked, and an abundance 
of extra gravy without grease. Where a brick oven 
is not to be had for baking meat, the iron oven should 
always have all the fire taken out before the meat is 
put in. Meat should be baked very slowly^ and be 
well covered in a vessel with a close-fitting lid. The 
ignorant practice of putting meat into open baking- 
tins not only entirely ruins the flavour of the meat, 
from the bad taste imbibed from the vapour of the fat 

* Very useful pounded to thicken soup lor the poor. 



470 Appendix. 

(frizzling in the iron oven), but it is very wasteful^ 
dries up the meat, destroys the gravy, and taints the 
oven to such an extent that, if bread or cakes are 
baked in it afterwards before it has undergone a 
long and laborious purification, they would be 
flavoured by the same taste as pervades a house from 
the odour of fat frying upon hot iron. 



MUSHROOMS. 

Wild mushrooms are generally brought in, in 
larger quantities than are required for immediate con- 
sumption unless made into catchup, and, as the mush- 
room season is always very short, the overplus of 
mushrooms can be preserved for two or three days to 
be as good as if freshly gathered, if cooked in the 
following manner : — Peel the mushrooms, cut ofF the 
stems, sprinkle a little salt in the inside of the flap, 
and put on each flap a bit of clarified marrow about 
the size of a very small bean, and place them one 
over the other in half-pint or pint jars (the outer side 
down and the flap up), put the jars to stand in vessels 
of boiling water, and let them simmer slowly, with a 
bladder over the top of the jar, for an hour or two, 
according to the number and thickness of the mush- 
rooms ; then put them away in a cold place. These 
mushrooms will be good for several days, and taste as 



\- 



r 



) 



Appendix. 471 

I if fresh gathered. When used^ take off the marrow^ 

{ if it has congealed on the surface^ and put the mush- 

rooms on a soup-plate upon squares of toast saturated 
with their own gravy, which will have exuded from 
them in the jars, put another soup*plate on the top, 
and warm the whole over a saucepan of boiling water. 
The stems and peelings of mushrooms ought to be 
chopped up as soon as they are taken off, and put 
into small jars, with a little salt, and simmered with 
boiling water round them in the same manner as the 
mushrooms: the liquor distilled from them can be 
used while fresh for flavouring sauces and hashes. 

The Hermit was very partial to mushrooms, and 
considered them not only wholesome for persons in 
ordinary health, but so nutritious that he believed 
them equal to meat, and questioned me closely as to 
the improvement of their cultivation in the present 
age, but I did not distinguish myself by my answers, 
for I really could give no account of them, excepting 
that rich persons had mushroom houses, where they 
were produced by artificial heat in the winter, and 
that mushroom spawn was generally purchased and 
was expensive, but I did not know whether naturalists 
or horticulturists had discovered any means of culti- 
vating them in the open ground, or securing the pre- 
servation of mushrooms from one year to another in 



47 2 appendix. 

places where they spring up spontaneously^ though I 
had often heard surprise expressed at the abundance 
of mushrooms in some years and the absence of them 
in others, in the same ground ; and this being the 
sum and substance of my knowledge, I was taunted 
repeatedly, at the expense of my *' scientific friends/* 
who had not turned their attention to a natural pro- 
duction so beneficial to rich and poor, and about the 
natural history and cultivation of which so little 
(according to my report) appeared to be known ; and 
I was advised to offer a prize for new discoveries on 
the subject ! 

GOOD FAMILY BREAD (WHITE). 

Five pounds of fine bran to a 8 pounds of flour. 



GOOD BROWN BREAD. 

Two pounds of bran to four pounds of flour. 

N.B. — The brown bread, or household bread of 
old times, is now hardly to be met with, and is rare 
even in Wales, the reason being that the millers do 
not grind and prepare the flour in the same way as 
formerly, when the pure corn, having been sent to be 
ground, was returned by the miller with the bran and 
flour altogether; and in every house there was a 



■pma^sa 



Appendix. 473 

good-wife or widow, who sifted the flour required for 
each baking, removing only the large flake bran. 
Bread thus made is very superior in flavour to the 
bread now generally used, but where the above plan 
cannot be followed, it is best to mix fresh sifted bran 
with the flour. The Jlavour of bread is in the bran, 
and in the absence of bran it is flavourless, much less 
wholesome, and not at all more nourishing. 



WELSH PAN OR POT BREAD. 

Take three pounds and a half of brown flour (flour 
which has only had the coarser bran taken out of it), 
put it to rise with about two tablespoonfuls of barm, 
and, when risen, mix it and knead it in the usual 
manner ; then put it into an iron pot or a thick earthen 
pan, and turn it topsy-turvy on a flat stone, which 
should be placed on the ground in the middle of a 
heap of hot embers, made by burning wood, peat, or 
turf; cover the pot or pan entirely over with hot em- 
bers, leave it to bake, and when the ashes are cold take 
it out. This mode of baking produces most excel- 
lent bread, but of course it cannot be practised econo- 
mically except where such rural. operations are carried 
on as provide the necessary quantity of hot embers 
for other purposes within a convenient distance of the 
house. 



474 Appendix. 

OATMEAL CAKES. 
Make a stifF paste with oatmeal and water or skim 
milk ; then form it into balls with the hand about the 
size of ^mall eggs ; then shape with the hand round 
and round to the size of a small cheese-plate or large 
saucer ; when one oat-cake is formed the right shape 
and thickness^ turn it and shake dry oatmeal all over it ; 
then take another^ put it in the middle of the oat-cake 
you have made> and form that in the same manner upon 
the first made ; when well tempered, turn it, and shake 
dry oatmeal all over it, and proceed in the same way 
until you have got eighteen oat-cakes one on the other, 
remembering that each must be turned, and that dry 
oatmeal must be put between every one, and they must 
be turned and returned, and shaped with the hand, 
imtil they are all of the same texture, as thin as is pos- 
sible without breaking. When dry enough to put on 
the bake-stone (heated to the required point which 
practice alone can teach), bake them one at a time ; 
have a clean cloth folded to the proper shape, and press 
the cake down flat on the bake-stone, where it should 
remain until it is of a nice light brown colour. The 
upper side of the cake is to be glazed before it is 
taken off the bake-stone ; the glaze is made with ^g 
and milk, and a little sugar is generally added, but 
that is only a matter of taste ; some persons like a 



f 
f 

r 

f 

f 



Appendix. 475 

little sugar mixed with the oatmeal of which the cakes 
are made. As each cake is taken ofF the bake-stone 
it is laid across the rolling-pin that it may dry in a 
hollow shape ; and as each cake becomes hard and 
crisp^ they are again put one on the other^ and are 
always served and kept in a pile. The rolling-pin 
must not be used in making these cakes^ all must be 
done with the hand^ and they must be flattened and 
worked round and round with the hand until they 
are almost as thin as a wafer. Great skill and dex- 
terity^ as well as practice^ are necessary to make these 
cakes well^ which when once attained^ the process is 
very quickly executed. The thin Welsh-oat cake is 
particularly wholesome^ and often agrees with invalids 
of weak digestion better than bread ; they are some- 
times eaten with cold butter or cheese, or eaten dry 
with milk or tea. 

THICK WELSH BARLEY CAKES. 

Take fine barley meal and make into a stifF dough 
with skim milk ; roll out to the size of a small bake- 
stone, about three-quarters of an inch thick, and bake. 
It is eaten with cold butter. 



THIN WELSH BARLEY CAKE. 

Mix fine barley meal and milk together to the con- 
sistency of batter, and pour slowly on the bake-stone 



476 Appendix. 

out of a jug until it has formed a circle the size of a 
small plate^ then let it bake slowly. It ought to be 
very thin but soft, like a pancake or a pikelate ; it is 
likewise eaten with cold butter. 



CIL COVER BUNS. 

One pound of flour, two ounces of currants well 
plumped, quarter of an ounce of sugar, and a table- 
spoonful of barm. Melt an ounce of butter in a 
quarter of a pint of milk ; glaze with the yolk or 
white of an egg. The above quantity will make 
twelve buns. 

Mix the barm * into the flour with a little warm 
milk, and leave it to rise for half an hour; then 
knead, and let the dough rise for one hour before 
baking. Bake twenty minutes in a moderate oven. 



TEISEN FRAU GWENT A MORGANWG.t 

One pound of flour, three ounces of currants well 
picked and washed, a little sugar (and spice if liked) ; 
mix into a thick batter with one pint of sheep's milk- 
cream, butter the tin of a Dutch oven and drop it in 
and bake before the fire. Care must be taken in turn- 

* Barm (called Yeast in England) is a Welsh word, although 
found in English dictionaries. 

t Short cakes of Gwent and Morganwg. 



■V 



Appendix. 477 

ing ; It can be cut in any shape. Cream of cows'- 
milk may be used, but sheep's-milk cream Is best for 
these cakes. A variety of the Teisen Frau are made 
by rubbing six ounces of butter in one pound of flour 
and two teaspoonfuls of sugar made into a stiff dough 
with new milk, or sheep's-milk cream; roll it out 
half an inch thick, and cut to size required ; bake on 
a bake-stone, or before the fire in a Dutch oven. 



FOR HARVEST. WELSH APPLE OR RHUBARB 

CAKES. 

Stew apples or rhubarb till soft, in a basin placed 
on a saucepan of boiling water. If the former, take 
off the peel and take out the core when done, and 
mash with a little brown sugar to taste. If the latter, 
pour off the overplus of juice for other purposes. To 
every five pounds of flour rub in two pounds ot 
clarified fat> roll out the paste the size, of a large 
baking-sheet, spread the apple or rhubarb pulp all 
over the square sheet of paste, then lay another thin 
layer of paste on the top and fasten the edges together. 
Bake, and when cold turn it out of the tin and cut it 
up in squares. Another plan of making these cakes 
is to form the paste the size and shape of a small 
cheese plate^ or large breakfast saucer ; put the fruit 
over one-half of the round and turn the other half 



478 Appendix. 

over itj making a half-moon ; then glaze and bake in 
a quick oven. Jam of any kind can also be used in 
this way for Welsh harvest cakes. 



WELSH HARVEST BUNS. 
One pound of flour and two ounces of clarified &t 
rubbed through the flour^ one ounce and a half of 
currants^ one oimce of sugar, a tablespoonful of barm 
(or one teaspoonful of baking powder), wet the above 
quantity with skim milk. It will make four very 
large buns or cakes. 

N.B. — The two foregoing recipes were used by the 
Hermit for the supply of his work-people during 
harvest, and no people ever worked better. The cold 
gldsdwfr (one quart of milk to three quarts of cold 
spring water) was supplied throughout the day to 
men, women, and children. If the weather was hot, 
the milk was always scalded previously to preserve 
it from acidity. At four o'clock, warm tea ready 
mixed in jugs with sugar and milk, was taken out to 
every one at work, with the above harvest buns, also 
a piece of cheese and part of a loaf of home-made 
bread for those whose appetites required more than 
two of the above buns. At eight o'clock or earlier 
(if they desired it) tea was sent out again in the 
same manner,, with bread and cheese for each person. 



13 



Appendix. 479 

The apple, rhubarb, or jam cakes were used as a 
variety, instead of buns occasionally. It was very 
rarely that there was any illness during harvest among 
those engaged in it. Mowing conmienced at three or 
four in the morning, and the work (when the weather 
was favourable) continued as long as they could see in 
the evening, often till past nine o'clock. 

The Traveller heard it remarked, that the children 
employed in the Hermit's harvest always ** grew 
fat " during that period, having good appetites and 
as much wholesome food as they could eat : no fer^ 
merited liquors of any sort or kind were ever given ; 
the usual hour was allowed for dinner at twelve 
o'clock, and they supplied themselves also with break- 
fast as on ordinary occasions. The gldsdwfr when 
mixed in the above proportions never disagrees with 
the digestion ; it is cooling, refreshing, and nourishing 
without being heavy ; but if a larger proportion of 
milk was used it would disagree. In some places in 
Wales *^ dwfr blawd ceirch " is used instead of milk 
and water ; this is made by putting boiling water on 
oatmeal, stirring it well, and letting it stand all night, 
and the clear water is taken off the next day for 
drinking. 

In noting down the above particulars, I (the 



480 Appendix. 

Traveller) asked the Hermit how he avoided the intro- 
duction of intoxicating liquors in harvest time ? He 
replied : — " My aim has been to preserve or restore all 
the good old habits of my country^ and utterly to repu- 
diate all immoral introductions which ruin the health 
as well as imperil the sou^ Harvest especially is the 
time when we should do what is goody and not teach and 
encourage wickedness. Many and many a man, woman^ 
and child are taught to drink in harvest time, from the 
want of other sustenance than intoxicating liquors/' 



WELSH TOASTED CHEESE. 

This celebrated national dish of Wales will appro- 
priately conclude the present collection of recipes, 
which were especial favourites in the cellof the Welsh 
Hermit, and which, in honour of his Principality, 
is here given in the original language as well as in 
English. Welsh toasted cheese, and the melted cheese 
of England, called " toasted cheese,*' are as different 
in the mode of preparation as is the cheese itself ; the 
one being only adapted to strong digestions, and the 
other being so easily digested that the Hermit fre- 
quently gave it to his invalid patients when they were 
recovering from illness, and found that they could often 
take it in moderation without inconvenience when the 
appetite and digestion were not sufEciently restored 



Appendix. 481 

to take much, (if any) meat, without suffering.*'-^ 
Cut a slice of the real Welsh cheese made of sheep 
and cow's milk^f toast it at the fire. on both sides, but 
not so much as to drop ; toast a piece of bread, less 
than a quarter of an mch thick, to be quite crisp, and 
spread it very thinly with iresh cold butter on one 
side (it must not be saturated with butter), then lay 
the toasted cheese upon the bread and serve imme- 
diately on a very hot plate ; the butter on the toast 
can, of course, be omitted if not liked, and it is niore 
frequently eaten without butter. 



CAWS WEDI EI BOBL 

'^Torrer darn o gaws Cymreig gwneuthuredig o 
laeth defaid a gwartheg, pober y ddwy ochr o flaen y 
tan ond nid cymmaint ag i ddiferu ; eraser tafell o 
fara (Uai na chwarter modfedd o drwch) yn grych, a 
thaener ymenyn newydd oer yn deneu lawn ar un ochr 
iddo (rhaid iddo beidio cael ei lenwi o ymenyn), yna 
rhodder y darn caws pobedig ar y bara, ac anfoner ef 
iV bwrdd ar ddysgl boeth yn ddiattreg. Gellir peidio 

♦ The same observation will apply to the Welsh sheep's- 
milk cheese without fy>astingy which can often be taken with 
bread or biscuit and a glass of cold water, with benefit by 
invalids with weak digestions. 

t See page 346. 

I I 



482 Appendix. 

rhoddi ymenyn ar y ^^^a crasedig, os dewiser^ ac yn 
am]af bwytteir ef hebddo/' 

Here ends the Traveller's Book of Recipes^ obtained 
from the Hermit of the Cell of St. Cover, though only 
a portion of those known and practised under the 
directions of the venerable recluse. The Traveller 
departed, as has already been mentioned, to X^ndon 
mth his ancient but active Welsh host, regretting 
that he had not been able to fill another book with a 
list of the various wild plants yet undestroyed in that 
part of Wales where he had so long resided; the 
virtues of which were well known to the Hermit and 
his native countrymen, and whose Welsh names in 
many instances incUcated either their appearance or 
their medical and curative properties. 

December^ 1866. 



nftis. 



LONDON : 

R. CLAY, SON, AND TAYLOR, PRINTERS, 

BREAD STREET HILL. 



I 







