Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



I 



J ^^^ 



«4^-s4 — sr 



£t fs '^l 



] 




nnn]{x% nni 




{Hh 



m 



®Ii^n i^m^. 



DUBLIN: WILLIAM McGEE, 18, NASSAU STREET. 

EDINBURGH : T. Q. STEVENSON, 22, SOUTH FREDERICK STREET. 

GLASGOW: OGLE & CO., 1, ROYAL EXCHANGE SQUARE. 

BERLIN : ASHER & CO., UNTER DEN LINDEN, 20. 

NEW YORK: C. SCRIBNER & CO.; LEYPOLDT & HOLT. 
PHILADELPHIA: J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO. 

BOSTON, U.S. : DUTTON & CO. 






a^p 




oif% 



C^e ^Stilk CbUbrnuB ^gtU gob, 



ilk loks 4 ^ttrtmrit 



of 




trgl^ ^l^ntrjes anb |0l^n ^wssjeH 



^pkp k WSiexk*i $oIie of $nnp0t> 



Jfrmtl^ * If atxn |patms an like Sttbjeds, 

snb sonu 



EDITED BT 



FREDERICK J. FURNIVALL, IM.A., 



TRTK. HALL, CAMBRIDOE. 



LONDON: 

PUBLISHED FOR THE EARLY ENGLISH TEXT SOCIETY, 

BY N. TEtJBNBR A CO., 60, PAlMftNOSTEE EOW. 



HDCCCLXTin. 




» / 



32 



JOHV CHILD6 AND SON, PRINTERS. 



DEDICATED 



TO 



THE HISTORIAN OF "THE EAKLT & MIDDLE AGES OF ENGLAND," 



Charles |. l§tma% ^si, ^.^., 

VSLLOW OV OBXIL OOLLBOB, OXVOBD. LATB PBOVB0SOB OF HISTOBT AX 

KXKO*8 COLLBOB, LOBSOB, 



IN ADMIRATION OF HIS LEARXIKO 



. ABO 



IK GRATITUDE FOR HIS HELP, 



BY THE EDITOR. 



i 



CONTENTS. 



PAOB 
FOREWORDS, OR GENERAL PREFAOE. i 

SducaiioR in Early England iv 

Cleanlinesa, or Dirt, of Men, Honses, &c Ixiii 

Notice of the separate Poems up to Rhodes kviii 

PREFACE TO RHODEs's SOKE OP NiTRTURE, (and herein of the status, 

food, and pay, of Gentlemen of the King's ChapeL) . . . . IxxT 

PREFACE TO ritssbll's boex OP NTJRTURE, and the Poems and 

Treatises following it (except those in the Postscript) . . . . dv 

C0IJJLTI0N8 AND CORRECTIONS CXXTi 

PART I. EARLY ENGLISH POEMS AND TREATISES. 

The Bahees Sook, (or a < lytyl Reporte ' of how Young People should 

behave) 1 

Leme or be Lewde . . . 9 

The A B C of Aristotle 11 

VrboHUatU 13 

The Lytylie Childrenes Lytil Boke, or Edyllys be (on even pages to 

p. 24) , 16 

The Young Children's Book (on odd pages to p. 25) 17 

Stans Puer ad Mensam (in English, from MS. Harl. 2251 ; on the even 

pages to p. 32) 26 

The Book of Churteisie that is clepid Stans Puer ad Mensam (from 

Lambeth MS. 853 ; on the odd pages to p. 33) 27 

Of the Manners to bring one to Honour and Welfare 34r 

Take what you find or what you bring 36 

The Reward of the Man who beggars himself 36 

How the Good Wijf taujte hir Doujtir 36 

How the Wise Man tau^t his Son 48 

Recipes (for Fritters, Jussell and Mawmeny) 53 

A Diatorie (on eren pages to p. 68) 54 

Dietarhm (in Latin, on odd pages to p. 59) 56 

Recipes (for Hares and Oonies in Civeye, and for Douoettes) . . 60 

B170H RHODES'S BOKE OP NURTURE (cd. 1577) 61 

((Contents thereof, inserted after p. 62. 

Yarious Reading's from Petit's Edition of Rhodes, p, 109. 

Notes on Swearing and Toothpicks, p. 113. 

Note on the first edition of Rhodes by J. Redman, and on East*s 

edition, p. exzzii. 
Note on Oolwell's and Veale's editions, p. cxzix.) 

/0H9 Russell's boke op nurture 116 

(Contents thereof, inserted after p. 116 ; Notes thereon, p. 200. 
Lawrens Andrewe on Fish, p. 229.) 



CONTENTS. 



Wiljam Balleyn on Boxyng and Neckeweede 

Andrew Borde on Sleep, Bising, and Dress 

William Yaughan's Fifteen Directions to preserve Health 

The Dyet for every Day (from Sir Jolin Harington's Schoole of Saleme) 

On Rising, Diet, and Going to Bed (from the same) 

WYSKTN DB irO&D£*8 BOKB OF KESUYNGE (ed. 1513) 

g Contents thereof, inserted after p. 264 ; Notes thereon, p. 287. 
ote on the first edition of 1508, p. cxxi.) 

The Booke of Demeanor (from the Schoole of Vertne hy Richard Weste) 

Thb Bqke op Curtasye (from the Sloane MS. 1986, ab. 1460 A..D.) 

(Jontents thereof, inserted after p. 298. 
Bp. Grossetest's Hoosehold Statutes (from the Sloane MS. 1986) . . 
Stanzas and Couplets of Counsel (from the Rawlinson MS. C. 86) . . 
The Schoole op Vertue by F. Seageb (a.d. 1557) 
Whate-ever thow sey, avyse thee welle ! . . 
A Dogg Lardyner, & a Sowe Gardyner . . 

Maxims in -ly 

iB/oger Ascham*s Advice to Lord Warwick*s Servant 
I<fotes to the Boke of Curtasye, &c 



PAOB 

240 
244 
249 
254 
256 

261 



289 
297 

328 
332 
333 
356 
358 
359 
360 
363 



* * 



POSTSCRIPT (added after the Index was printed). 



Fpob to serve a Lord (see Preface to Russell, p. cvii.)» with A Feste 

for a Biyde, p. 375 
The Houshold Stuff occupied at the Lord Mayor's Feast, a.d. 1505 . . 

The Ordre of goyng or sittyng 

Latin Graces 

The Boris Hede furst 

The Boar's Head 

Symon's Lesson of Wysedome for all maner Chyldryn 

The Birched School-Boy of about 1500 a.d 

The Song of the School-Boy at Christmas 

PART II. FRENCH AND LATIN POEMS. 

La Maniere de se contenir a Table 

Contenance de Table 

S'ensuivent les Contenances de la Table . . 

Prie Dieu pour les Trespassez 

Antres Contenances de Table 

Regime pour tons Serviteurs 

Vt te geras ad Mensam (with englishing opposite) 
Stans Puer ad- Mensam (with englishing opposite) 
Modus Cenandi (with englishing opposite) 
Carnes bone. Yolatilia sana. Pisces sani 

Notes to Part II 

Index to both Parts (but not to the Postscript to Part L) 



366 
378 
381 
384 
397 
393 
399 
403 
405 



3 
6 
8 
15 
16 
20 
26 
30 
34 
56 
58 
60 



FOREWORDS. 



*' The naturall maister Aristotell saith that enery body be the 
coarse of natare is enclyned to here & se all that refressheth & 
qnickeneth the spretys of man^ / wherfor I haue thus in this boke 
folowinge * " gath^ed together divers treatises touching the Manners 
& Meals of Englishmen in former days, & have added therto divers 
figures of men of old, at meat & in bed,' to the end that, to my 
fellows here & to come, the home life of their forefathers may be 
somewhat more plain, & their own minds somewhat rejoiced. 

The treatises here collected consist of two main ones — John 
Eussell's Boke of Nuiiure and Hugh Ehodes's Boke of Nurture, to 
which. I have written separate prefaces * — and certain shorter poems 
addressed partly to those whom Cotgrave calls " Enfans de famiUe, 
Yonkers of account, youthes of good houses, children of rich parents 

^ The first sentence of Aristotle's Metaphysiea is * AH men by nature are actuated 
by the desire of knowledge.' Mr Skeaf s note on L 78 of Fartenay^ p. 228. 

* Lawrem Ajidrewe. Th$ noble lyfe f natures of many ofhestea^ ftc Johnes 
DesboTTowe. Andewarpe. 

' The woodcuts are Messrs Virtue's, and have been used in Mr Thomas Wright's 
Sistory of Ihmestie Manners and Customs, &c. 

* If any one thinks it a bore ta read these Prefaces^ I can assure him it was a 
much greater bore to have to hunt up the material for them, and set aside other 
pressing business for it. But the Boke of Curtasye binding on editors does not 
allow them to present to their readers a text with no coat and trowsers on. If 
any Members should taike offence at any expressions in this or any future Preface 
of mine, as a few did at some words in the last I wrote, I ask such Members to 
consider the first maxim in their Boke of Curtasye, Don't look a gift horse in the 
mouth. Prefacea are gift horses ; and if mine buck or shy now and then, I ask 
their riders to sit steady, and take it easy. On the present one at least they'll be 
carried across some fresh country worth seeing. 

b 



ii EDWARD THE FOURTH'S HENCHMEN. 

(yet aliue)," partly to merchants' sons and good wives' daughters, 

partly to schoolboys, partly to people in general, or at least those of 

them who were willing to take advice as to how they should mend 

their manners and live a healthy life. 

The persons to whom the first poems of the present collection are 

addressed, the 

yonge Babees, whome bloode Eoyalle 
Withe grace, feture, and hyhe habylite 
• Hathe enowrmyd, 

the "Bele Babees" and "swete Children," may be likened to the 

"young gentylmen, Henxmen, — ^VI Enfauntes, or more, as it shall 

please the Kinge," — at Edward the Fourth's Court; and the authors or 

translators of the Bokes in this volume, somewhat to that sovereign's 

Maistyr of Henxmen, whose duty it was 

" to shew the schooles * of urbanitie and nourture of Englond, to 
leme them to ryde clenely and surely ; to drawe them also to justes ; 
to leme them were iheyre barneys ; to haue all curtesy in wordes, 
dedes, and degrees ; dilygently to kepe them in rules of goynges and 
sittinges, after they be of honour. Moreover to teche them sondry 
languages, and othyr lerninges vertuous, to harping, to pype, sing, 
daunce, and with other honest and temperate behaviour and patience ; 
and to kepe dayly and wekely with these children dew convenity, 
with corrections in theyre chambres, according to suche gentylmen ; 
and eche of them to be used to that thinge of vertue that he shall be 
moste apt to leme, with remembraunce dayly of Goddes sorvyce accus- 
tumed. This maistyr sittith in the halle, next unto these Henxmen, 
at the same boarde, to have his respecte unto theyre demeanynges, 
howe manerly they ete and drinke, and to theyre communication and 
other formes curiaU, after the hooke of urbanitie." (Liber Niger in 
Household (Ordinances, p. 45.) 

That these young Henxmen were gentlemen, is expressly stated,^ 

^ Bcbolan ? 

> Sir H. Nicolas, in his Glossary to his Priv^ Purse Expenses of Eetwy VIILt 
p. 327, col. 2, says, ** No word has been more commented upon than * Henchmen ' 
or Henxmen. Without entering into the controversy, it may be sufficient to state, 
that in the reign of Henry the Eighth it meant the pages of honour. They were the 
sons of gentlemen, and in public processions always walked near the monarch's 
horse : a correct idea may he formed of their appearance from the representation of 
them in one of the pictures in the meeting room of the Society of Antiquarians. It 
seems from these entries (p. 79,* 126, 182, 209, 230, 265) that they lodged in the 

* p. 79, Itrai the same daye paied to Johnson the mayster of the kingu barge 
for the Bent of the house where the henze men lye xl s. 



FOREWORDS. lH 

and they had " everyche of them an honest servaunt to keepe theyre 

chambre and hameys, and to aray hym in this courte whyles theyre 

maisters be present in courte." I suppose that when they grew up, 

some became Esquires, and then their teaching would prove of use, for 

" These jEsquiers of houshold of old [were] accustumed, wynter 
and sumer, in aftyrnoones and in eveninges, to drawe to lordes 
chambres within courte, there to kepe honest company aftyr theyre 
cunnynge, in talkyng of cronycles of Kings and of other polycyes, or 
in pypeyng or harpyng, synging, or other actes martiallea, to help 
occupy the courte, and accompany straungers, tyll the tymo require 
of departing." 

But that a higher station than an Esquier's was in store for some of 

these henchmen, may be known from the history of one of them. 

Thomas Howard, eldest son of Sir John Howard, knight (who was 

afterwards Duke of ITorfolk, and killed at Bosworth Field), was 

among these henchmen or pages, *enfauntes' six or more, of Edward 

rV.'s. He was made Duke of Norfolk for his splendid victory over 

the Scots at Hodden, and Aune Boleyn and Catherine Howard were 

his granddaughters. Among the * othyr lerninges vertuous' taught 

house of Johnson, the master of the king's barge, and that the rent of it was 4.0a. 
per annum. Observations on the word will be found in Spelman*s Ett/moLj Pegge's 
CuriaUOf from the Liber Niger, Edw. IV ., Lodge's lUmtraiioM, voL i. p. 369, the 
I^orthumberland household Booky Blount's Glossary" 

The Promptorium has ** Heyncemann (henchemanne) Gerolocisia, duorum 
generum {^erolocista)" and Mr Way in his note says, ** The pages of distinguished 
personages were called henxmen, as Spelman supposes, from Ger. hengst, a war- 
horse, or according to Bp. Percy, from their place being at the side or hatmch of 
their lord." "See the rest of Mr Way's note. He is a most provokingly careful 
editor. If ever you hit on a plum in your wanderings through other books you ore 
sure to find it afterwards in one of Mr Way's notes when you bethink yourself of 
turning to the Promptorium. 

In Lord Percy's Household {Korth. E. Book^ p. 362) the Henchemen are 
mentioned next to the Earl's own sons and their tutor (?) in the list of ^* Pcrsones 
that shall attende upon my Lorde at his Borde Daily, andc have no more but his 
Bevercioa Except Brede and Drynk." 

My Lordes Secounde Son to serve as Kerver. 

My Lordes Thurde Son as Sewer. 

A Gentillman that shall attende upon my Lord's Eldest Son in the rewardc, and 
appoynted Bicause ho shall allwayes be with my Lord's Sonnes for seynge the 
Orderynge of them. 

My Lordes first Sauneshman to serve as Cupberer to my Lorde. 

My Lords ij<l« Hanshinan to serve as Cupberer to my Lady. 

See also p. 300^ p. 254, The Uanamen to be at the f}'ndynge of my Lord, 

p. 47. 

b2 



iv RICH men's education in early ENGLAND. 

him at Edward's court was no doxibt that of drawing, for we find that 
* He was buried with much pomp at Thetford Abbey under a tomb 
designed by himself and master Clarke, master of the works at Eling's 
College, Cambridge, & Wassel a freemason of Bury S. Edmund's.* 
Cooper's AtL Oant.^ L p. 29, coL 2. 

The question of the social rank of these Bele Babees, children, and 
Pueri who stood at tables, opens up the whole subject of uppeivclaBS 
education in early times in England. It is a subject that, so far as I 
can find, has never yet been separately treated ^ and I therefore throw 
together such fewnotices as the kindness of friends' and my own chance 
grubbings have collected ; these as a sort of stopgap till the appear- 
ance of Mr Anstey's volume of early Oxford Statutes in the Chronicles 
and Memoridl8f a volume which will, I trust, give us a complete 
account of early education in our land. If it should not, I hope that 
Mr Quick will carry his pedagogic researches past Henry VIII. 's 
time, or that one of our own members will take the subject up. It 
ia worthy of being thoroughly worked out. For convenience' sake, 
the notices I have mentioned are arranged under six heads : 



1. Education in Nobles' houses. 

2. At Home and at Private 

Tutors', p. xvii. 

3. At English Universities, p. xxvi« 



4. At Foreign Universities, p. xl. 

5. At Monastic and Cathedral 

Schools, p. xli. 

6. At Grammar Schools, p. liL 



One consideration should be premised, that manly exercises, 
manners and courtesy, music and singing, knowledge of the order 
of precedency of ranks, and ability to carve, were in early times 
more important than Latin and Philosophy. * Aylmar J>e kyng' gives 
these directions to Athelbrus, his steward, as to Horn's education : 

^ When writing tlus I had forgotten Warton's section on the Beriral of Learn- 
ing in England before and at the Reformation, Sist, Englith Fi>$trff^ t. iii. ed. 1840. 
It should be read by aU who take an interest in the subject. Mr Bruce also refers 
to Eynaston's Mme%im Minervm. P.S. — Mr BuUdn and Mr Watts haye since 
referred me to Henry, who has in each Tolume of his Hiatory of England a regular 
account of learning in England, the Colleges and Schools founded, and the learned 
men who flourished, in the period of which each Tolume treats. Had I seen these 
earlier I should not have got the following extracts together ; but as they are for 
the most part not in Henry, they will serve as a supplement to him. 

* First of these is Mr Charles H. Pearson, then the Rer. Prof. Brewer, and Mr 
William Chappell. 



FOREWORDS. T 

Stiwarde, tak nu here 

Mi fundlyng for to lere 228 

Of fine meatere, 
Of wude and of riuere ; 
And tech. him to harpe 

Wi]> his nayles scharpe ; 232 

Biuore me to kerae, 
And of pQ cupe serue ; 
pu. tech him of alle pe liste (craft, AS. lid) 
jjat f u enre of wiste ; 236 

[And] his feiren pou wise (mates thou teach) 
Into o]»ere seroise. 
Horn ^u underuonge, 

And tech him of harpe and songe. 240 

King H&m, E. K T. Soc, 1866, ed. Lumby, p. 7.» 

8o in Bomances and Ballads of later date, we find 

The child was taught great nurterye ; 
a Master had him vnder his care, 
& taught him curtesie. 
Tryamorey in Bp. Percy's Folio M8. voL iL ed. 1867. 

It was the worthy Lord of learen, 

he was a lord of hie degree ; 
he had noe more children but one sonne, 
he sett him to schoole to leame curtesie. 
Liord of Leamey Bp. Percy's Folio MS. voL L p. 182, ed. 1867. 

Chaucer^s Squire, as we know, at twenty years of age 

hadde ben somtyme in chivachie, 
In Flaundres, in Artoys, and in Picardie, 
And bom him wel, as in so litel space, 
In hope to stonden in his lady grace . . . 
Syngynge he was, or flowtynge, al the day . . 
Wel cowde he sitte on hors, and wel cowde ryde. 
He cowde songes wel make and endite, 
Justne and eek daunce, and wel purtray and write . . . 
Curteys he was, lowly, and servysable. 
And carf befom his fadur at the table.' 

Which of these accomplishments would Cambridge or Oxford teach 1 
Music alone. That, as Harrison says, was one of the Quadrivialsy 

1 Hr Wm. Chappell gave me the reference. 

> In the Romance of Blonde of Oxford, Jean of Dammartin is taken into the 
Berriee of the Earl of Oxford as eteuier^ esquire. He waits at table on knights, 
sqoires, valets, boys and messengers. After table, the ladies keep him to talk 
French with them. 



VI HOUSES OF NOBLES AND CHANCELLORS WERE SCHOOLS. 

* arithmetike, musike, geometrie, and astronomie.' The Trivium was 

grammar, rhetoric and logic. 

1. The chief places of education for the sons of our nobility and 

gentry were the houses of other nobles, and specially those of the 

Chancellors of our Kings, men not only able to read and write, talk 

Latin and French themselves, but in whose hands the Court 

patronage lay. As early as Henry the Second's time (a.d. 1154-62), 

if not before*, this system prevailed. A friend notes that Fitz- 

Stephen says of Becket : 

"The nobles of the realm of England and of neighbouring 
kingdoms used to send their sons to serve the Chancellor, whom 
he trained with honourable bringing-up and learning ; and when 
they had received the knight's belt, sent them back with honour 
to their fathers and kindred : some he used to keep. The king 
himself, his master, entrusted to him his son, the heir of the realm, 
to be brought up; whom he had with him, with many sons of 
nobles of the same age, and their proper retinue and masters and 
proper servants in the honour due." — Vita S. Tliomce, pp. 189, 190, 
ed. Giles. 

Roger de Hoveden, a Yorkshireman, who was a clerk or secretary 

to Henry the Second, says of Eichard the Lionheart's unpopular 

chancellor, Longchamps the Bishop of Ely : 

" All the sons of the nobles acted as his servants, with downcast looks, 
nor dared they to look upward towards the heavens unless it so happened 
that they were addressing him ; and if they attended to anything else they 
were pricked with a goad, which their lord held in his hand, fully 
mindfal of his grandfather of pious memory, who, being of servile condition 
in the district of Beauvais, had, for his occupation, to guide the plough and 
whip up the oxen ; and who at length, to gain his liberty, fled to the Norman 
territory." (Riley's Hoveden, ii. 232, quoted in TAe Comhill Magazine, vol. 
XV. p. 165.)* 

^ It was in part a principle of Anglo-Saxon society at the earliest period, and 
attaches itself to that other universal principle of fosterage. A Teuton chieftain 
always gathered round him a troop of young retainers in his hall who were voluntary 
servants, and they were, in fact, almost the only servants he would allow to touch 
his person. T. Wright. 

* Compare Skelton's account of "Wolsey's treatment of the Nobles, in Why come 
ye not to Oourte (quoted in Ellia*8 Letters^ v. ii. p. 3). 



^— " Our barons be so bolde. 

Into a mouse hole they wold 
Runne away and creep 
Like a mainy of sheep : 
Dare not look out a dur 



For drede of the maystife cur. 
For drede of the boucher's dog 

" For and this curre do gnarl. 
They must stande all afar 



FOREWORDS. Vll 

All Cbancellors were not bnites of this kind, but we must ro- 

member that young people were subjected to rough treatment in early 

days. Even so late as Henry VL's time^ Agues Pas ton sends to 

London on the 28th of January, 1457, to pray the master of her son 

of 16, that if the boy " hath not done well, nor will not amend," his 

master Greenfield '' will truly belash him till he will amend." And 

of the same lady's treatment of her marriageable daughter, Elizabeth, 

Clere writes on the 29th of June, 1454, 

'^ She (the daughter) was never in so great sorrow as she is now- 
a-days, for she may not speak with no man, whosoever come, ne not 
may see nor speak with my man, nor with servants of her mother's, 
but that she beareth her on hand otherwise than she meaneth ; and 
she hath since Easter the most part been beaten once in the week 
or twice, and sometimes twice on a day, and her head broken in two 
or three places." (v. i p. 50, coL 1, ed. 1840.) 

The treatment of Lady Jane Grey by her parents was also very 

severe, as she told Ascham, though she took it meekly, as her sweet 

nature was : 

" One of the greatest benefites that God ever gave me, is, that he 
sent me so sharps and severe Parentes, and so jentle a scholemaster. 
For when I am in presence either of father or mother, whether I 
speake, kepe silence, sit, stand, or go, eate, drinke, be merie or sad, 
be sewyng, plaiyng, dauncing, or doing anie thing els, I must do it, 
as it were, in soch weight, mesure, and number, even so periitelie as 
God made the world, or els I am so sharplie taunted, so cruellie 
threatened, yea presentlie some tymes, with pinches, nippes, and 
bobbes, and other waies which I will not name for the honor I beare 
them, so without measure misordered, that I thinke my self in hell 
till tyme cum that I must go to M, ElineVy who teacheth me so 
jentlie, so pleasantlie, with soch faire allurementes to learning, that 
I thinke all the tyme nothing whiles I am with him. And when I 
am called firom him, I fall on weeping." — The Scholmiaster, ed. Mayor. 

The inordinate beating^ of boys by schoolmasters — ^whom he 



To holde up their hand at the bar. 
For aU their noble blonde. 
He plnckes them by the hood 
And shakes them by the eare, 
And bryngi them in snch fcare ; 
He bayteth them lyke a beare. 



Like an Ox or a Bnl. 
Their wittes, he sayth, are dul ; 
He sayth they hare no brayne 
Their estate to maintaine : 
And make to bowe the knee 
Before his Majestie.'* 



1 Compare also the quotation from Piers Plowman's Crede, under No 5, p. xlv, 
and PalagraTO, 1530 a.d., * I mase, I stonysshe, Je bettourne. You masod the boyo 
to sore with beatyng that he coulde not speake a worde.' See a gross instance of 



Viii BP. GBOSSBTBTB TAUGHT NOBLES* SONS. 

calls in different places * sharp, fond, & lewd * ^ — ^Ascham denounces 
strongly in the first book of his Scholeinader, and he contrasts tiieir 
folly in beating into their scholars the hatred of learning with the 
practice of the wise riders who by gentle allurements breed them up 
in the love of riding. Indeed, the origin of his book was Sir Wm. 
Cecil's saying to him " I have strange news brought me this morning, 
that divers scholars of Eton be run away from the school for fear of 
beating." 

Sir Peter Carew, says Mr Froude, being rather a troublesome 
boy, was chained in the Haccombe dog-kennel till he ran away from it. 

But to return to the training of young men in nobles' houses. 
I take the following from Fiddes's Appendix to his life of Wolsey : 

John de Athon, upon the Constitutions of OthohoUy tit 23, in 
respect to the Goods of such who dyed intestate, and upon the "Word 
BaroneSy has the following Passage concerning Grodsted Bishop of 
Uncoln^ (who died 9th Oct., 1253),— 

"Robert sumamed Grodsted of holy memory, late Bishop of 
Lincoln, when King Henry asked him, as if in wonder, where he 
learnt the Kurture in which he had instructed the sons of nobles (<&) 
peers of the Eealm, whom he kept about him as pages {damiaellcs^), 
— since he was not descended from a noble lineage, but from humble 
(parents) — \b said to have answered fearlessly, ' In the house or guest- 

craelty cited from Erasmiu's Letters, by Staunton, in his Cfreat Schools of England^ 
p. 179-80. 

^ ** And therfore do I the more lament that soch [hard] wittes commonlie be 
either kepte from learning by fond fathers, or bet from learning by Uwde achoU- 
maetersj* ed. Mayor, p. 19. But Ascham reproves parents for paying their masters 
so badly: ** it is pitie, that commonlie more care is had, yea and that emonges Terie 
wise men, to finde out rather a cunnynge man for their horse than a cunnyng man 
for their children. They say nay in worde, but they do so in deede. For, to the 
one they will gladlie give a stipend of 200. Crounes by yeare, and loth to offer to 
the other, 200. shillinges. God, that sitteth in heauen, laugheth their choice to 
skome, and rewardeth their liberalitie as it should : for he suffcreth them to have 
tame and well ordered horse, but wilde and unfortunate Children." lb. p. 20. 

2-s Sancta memoria Bobertum Cognominatum Grodsted dudum Lincolniendem 
Spiaeopumy Eegi Henrico quasi admirando, cum interrogavity ubi Noraiuram didieit, 
qud Filios Nobilium Procerum Rtgni, guos seeum habuit LomiseUos, instruxerat, cum 
non de nobiliprosapia, sed de simplicibus traxisset Originem^ fertur intrepide respon- 
disss. In Bomo seu Sospitio Mqforum Begum quam sit Rex Anglia ; Quia £egum, 
David, Salomonis, ^ aliorumj vivendi morem duiicerat ex Intelligentia scripturarum. 

' DoMiCELLiJB, Domnicellos, diminutivum a Domnus, Gloss, antiquss MSS. : 
fferiles, Domini minores, quod possumus aliier dieere DomniceUiy Ugutio : Domicelli 
si Domieella dieuntur, quando pulehri Juvenes magnatum sunt sieut servientes. Sic 
porro primitus appellabant magnatum, atque adeo Regum filios. Du Cangc. 



FOREWORDS. IX 

chambers of greater kings than the King of England *; because he 
had learnt from understanding the scriptures the manner of life of 
David, Solomon, & other Kings*." 

ReyneTy in his Apostol. Bened. from Saunders acquaints us, that 
the Sons of the Nobility were placed with Whiting Abbot of Olastenr 
bury for their Education, who was contemporary with the Cardinal, 
and which Method of Education was continued for some Time 
afterward. 

There is in the Custody of the present Earl of Stafford, a Noble- 
man of the greatest Humanity and Groodness, an Original of Instruc- 
tions, by the Earl of Arunddlf written in the Year 1620, for the 
Benefit of his younger Son, the Earl of Stafford's Grandfather, under 
this TiUe ; 

Instructions far you my Son William, Tuno to behave 

your self at Norwich. 

In these Instructions is the following paragraph, "You shall in 
all Things reverence honour and obey my Lord Bishop of Norwich, 
as you would do any of your Parents, esteeminge whatsoever He shall 
tell or Command you, as if your Grandmother of Arundell, your 
Mother, or my self, should say it ; and in all things esteem your self 
as my Lord's Page ; a breeding which youths of my house far superior 
to you were accustomed unto, as my Grandfather of Norfolk^ and his 
Brother my good Uncle of Northampton were both bred as Pages 
with Bishopps, ^c." 

Sir Thomas More, who was bom in 1480, was brought up in the 

house of Cardinal Morton. Eoper says that he was 

" received into the house of the right reverend, wise, and learned 
prelate Cardinal Morton, where, though he was young of years, yet 
would he at Christmas-tide suddenly sometimes step in among the 
players, and never studying for the matter make a part of his own 
there presently among them, which made the lookers on more sport 
than aU the players beside. In whose wit and towardness the 
Cardinal much delighting would say of him unto the nobles that 
divers times dined with him, This child here waiting at the table, 
whosoever shall live to see it, will prove a marvellous man. Whereupon 
for Ids better furtherance in learning he placed him at Oxford, &c.*' 
(Roper's Life of More, ed. Singer, 1822, p. 3.) 

Cresacre More in his Life of More (ed. 1828, p. 17) states the 
same thing more fully, and gives the remark of the Cardinal more 
accurately, thus : — " that that boy there waiting on him, whoever 
shoidd live to see it, would prove a marvellous rare man.*'* 

Through Wolse/s household, says Professor Brewer, almost all the 

1 Mr Bruce sends me the More extracts. 



X TOUXG NOBLES IN WOLSEY's HOUSEHOLD. 

Officials of Henry the Eighth's time passed. Cavendish, in his Life 

of Wolsey (voL i. p. 38, ed. Singer, 1825) says of the Cardinal, 

" And at meals, there was continually in his chamber a board kept 

for his Chamberlains, and Gentlemen Ushers, having with them a 

mess of the young LordSy and another for gentlemen." Among these 

young Lords, we learn at p. 57, was 

" my Lord Percy, the son and heir of the Earl of Northumber- 
land, [who] then attended upon the Lord Cardinal, and was also his 
servitor ; and when it chanced the Lord Cardinal at any time to repair 
to the court, the Lord Percy woidd then resort for his pastime imto 
the queen's chamber, and there would fall in dalliance among the 
queen's maidens, being at the last more conversant with Mistress 
Anne Boleyn than with any other ; so that there grew such a secret 
love between them that, at length they were insured together, intend- 
ing to marry K" 

Among the persons daily attendant upon Wolsey in his house, 
down-lying and up-rising, Cavendish enumerates " of Lords nine or 
ten, who had each of them allowed two servants ; and the Earl of 
Derby had allowed five men" (p. 36-7). On this Singer prints a note, 
which looks like a guess, signed Grower "Those Lords that were 
placed in the great and privy chanibers were Wards, and as such 
paid for their board and education." It will be seen below that he had 
a particular officer called "Instructor of his Wards" {Cavendish^ 
p. 38, 1. 2). Why I suppose the note to be a guess is, because at p. 
33 Cavendish has stated that Wolsey "had also a great number 
daily attending upon him, both of noblemen and worthy gentlemen, 
of great estimation and possessions, — ^with no small number of the 
tallest yeomen that ho could get in all his realm ; in so much that 
well was that nobleman and gentleman that might prefer any tall and 
comely yeoman unto his service." 

In the household of the Earl of Northumberland in 1511 were 
" . . yong gentlemen at their fryndes fynding,* in my lords house for 

^ How Wolsey broke off the insuranee Ib Tery well told. Mistress Anne was 
" sent home again to her father for a Beason ; whereat she tmoked " ; but she " was 
reToked unto the Court," and '^ after she knew the king's pleasure and the great 
love that he bare her in the bottom of his stomach, then she began to look very hault 
and stout, having all manner of jewels or rich apparel that might bo gotten with 
money" (p. 67). 

» Under the heading " Gentylmen of Houshold, viz. Kervers, Sewars, Cup- 
berers, and Gentillmen Waiters *' in the North, Household Books, p. 40, we find 



FOREWORDS. XI 

the hoole yere** and "Haimsmen ande Yong Gentlemen at thir 
Fryndes fynding v[j] (As to say, Hanshmen iij. And Yong Gentle- 
men iij ^ p. 254,) no doubt for the purpose of learning manners, &c. 
And that such youths would be found in the house of every noble of 
importance I believe, for as Walter Mapes (] ab. 1160-90 a.d.) says 
of the great nobles, in his poem De diversia ordinihus hominum, the 
example of manners goes out from their houses. Exemplar morum 
domibus procedit eorum. That these houses were in some instances 
only the finishing schools for our well-bom yoimg men after previous 
teaching at home and at College is possible (though the cases of Sir 
Thomas More and Ascham are exactly the other way), but the Lord 
Percy last named had a schoolmaster in his house, '* The Maister of 
Graimer j ", p. 254 j " Lyverays for the Maister of Gramer * in 
Housholde : Item Half a Loof of Houshold Breide, a Pottell of Beere, 
and two White Lyghts," p. 97. "Every Scolemaister techyng 
Grammer in the Hous C «." (p. 47, 51). Edward IV.'s henxmen were 
taught grammar ; and if the Pastous are to be taken as a type of their 
class, our nobles and gentry at the end of the 15th century must 
have been able to read and write freely. Chaucer's Squire could 
write, and though the custom of sealing deeds and not signing them 
prevailed, more or less, till Henry VIII. 's time, it is doubtful whether 
this implied inability of the sealers to write. Mr Chappell says that 
in Henry VIIL's time half our nobility were then writing ballads. 
Still, the bad spelling and grammar of most of the letters up to that 
period, and the general ignorance of our upper xlasses were, says 
Professor Brewer, the reason why the whole government of the 
country was in the hands of ecclesiastics. Even in Henry the Eighth's 

Item, Gentilbiieii in Homholde iz, Viz. ij Cazren for my Loords Boorde, and a 
Serrant bitwixt thejm both, $xcept thai be at their Jrendisjyndt/nff, and than ather 
of theym to have a Servant — ^Two Sewars for my Lordis Boorde, and a Serrant 
bitwixt theym, exeept they he at their Friendis fyndyngey and than ather of theym 
to bare a Serrant — ^ij Cnpberers for my Lorde and my Lady, and a Servant allowed 
bitwixt theym, exeept they be at their Frendie fyndynge^ And than ather of theym to 
hare a Servant allowid. 

Under the next heading <' My Lordis Hansmen at the fynd^sge of my Lorde, 
and Tonge Gcntyllmen at there Frendye fyndynge," is 

. Item, my Lordis Hansmen iij. Tonge Gentyllmen in Honshold at their Frendie 
fyndynge ij = v. 

1 Grammar usoally means Latin. T. Wright 



Xii KNOWLEDGE OF FRENCH, TEMP. HEN. VIII. 

time, Sir Thomaa Boleyn is said to liave been the only noble at 

Court who could speak French with any degree of fluency, and so 

was learned enough to be sent on an embassy abroad. But this may 

be questioned. Yet Wolsey, speaking to his Lord Chamberlain and 

Comptroller when they 

'' showed him that it seemed to them there should be some noble- 
men and strangers [Henry YIII. and his courtiers masked] arrived at 
his bridge, as ambassadors from some foreign prince. With that, 
quoth the Cardinal, ' I shall desire you, hecatise ye can speak French, 
to take the pains to go down into the haU to encounter and to receive 
them, according to their estates, and to conduct them into this 
chamber* (^Cavendish, p. 51). Then spake my Lord Chamberlain 
unto them in French^ declaring my Lord Cardinal's mind (p. 63)." 

The general ^ opinion of our gentry as to the study of Letters, before 

and about 1500 a.d., is probably well represented by the opinion of 

one of them stated by Pace, in his Prefatory Letter to Colet, prefixed 

to the former's De FructuK 

1 The exceptions must have been many and marked. 

* Riehardi Faeei^ invieti$Hmi Regis Anglia primarii Seeretariif eiuaque apud 
JBlvetio* OratoriSt De Fruetu qui ex Doetrinte pereipitur, Liber, 

Colophon. Baeileae apud lo, jP^obenium, menee Yin.6r». an, M.D.XYII. 

Bestat ut iam tibi ezplicem, qai4 me moueat ad libellam hoc titulo conscri- 
bendom et pablicandiun. Quam duobus annis plus minus iam pneteritis, ex 
Komana uibe in patriam rediJBsem, inter-fui cuidam oonuiuio multis incognitus. 
Ybi qaxxm satis fiiiaset potatum, unus, nescio quis, ex conniuis, non imprudens, ut 
ex uerbis uultaqM conijoere Ucuit, coepit mentionem faoere de liberis suis bene 
instituendis. £t primum omnium, l>onum pneceptorem illis sibi quserendunt, & 
scholam omnino frequentandam oensuit. Aderat forte unus ex his, quos nos 
generosos uocamus, & qui semper comu aliquod atergo pendens gestant, acsi 
etiam inter prandendum uenarentur. Is audita literarum laude, percitus repentina 
ira, furibundus prorupit in heec uerba. Quid nugaris, inquit, amice ? abeant in 
malam rem istffi stultaB litersd, omnes docti sunt meftdici, etiam Erasmus ille 
doctissimus (ut audio) pauper est, & in quadam sua epistola Tocat rtfv Kardparov 
ir€viav uxorem suam, id est, execrandam paupertatem, & uehementer con- 
queritur se son posse illam humeris suis usqu^ in PaOvKriria irovrov, id est, pro- 
fundnm mare excutere. (Corpus dei iuro) uolo Alius meus pendeat potius, quam 
Uteris studeat. Deeet entm generosorum filios, apte inflare comu, peiite uenari, 
accipitrem pulchre gestare & educare. Btudia uero literamm, rusticorum filiis 
sunt relinquenda. Hie ego cohibere me non potui, quin aliqtitd homini loqua- 
cissimo, in defensionem bonarum literarum, responderem. 19 on uideris, inquam, 
mihi bone uir vecte sentire, nam si ueniret ad regem aliquw uir exterus, quales 
sunt principum oratores, & ei dandum esset responsum, filius tuus sic ut tu uis, 
institutus, inflaret duntazat oomu, & rusticorum filij docti, ad respondendum 
uocarenttfT, ac filio tuo uenatori uel aucupi longe anteponerentt«r, & sua erudita 



POREWORDS. xm 

It lemains that I now explain to you what moves me to compile 
and publish a treatise with this title. When, two years ago, more or 
less, I had returned to my native land from the city of Eome, I was 
present at a certain feast, a stranger to many ; where, when enough 
had been drunk, one or other of the guests — ^no fool, as one might 
infer from his words and countenance — ^began to talk of educating 
his children welL And, first of all, he thought that he must search 
out a good teacher for them, and that they should at any rate attend 
school. There happened to be present one of those whom we call 
gentle-men (generoeos), and who always carry some horn hanging at 
their backs, as though they would hunt during dinner. He, hearing 
letters praised, roused with sudden anger, burst out furiously with 
these words. " Why do you talk nonsense, friend 1 " he said ; " A 
curse on those stupid letters ! all learned men are beggars : even 
Erasmus, the most learned of all, is a beggar (as I hear), and in a 
certain letter of his caUs r^v KaToparoy irivlav (that is, execrable 
poverty) his wife, and vehemently complains that he cannot shake 
her off his shoulders right into /3aOvic^rca •ir6vrov, that is, into the 
deep sea. I swear by God's body Td rather that my son should 
hang than study letters. For it becomes the sons of gentlemen to 
blow the horn nicely {apte)^ to hunt skilfully, and elegantly carry 
and train a hawk. But the study of letters should be left to the 
sons of rustics." At this point I could not restrain myself frt>m 
answering something to this most talkative man, in defence of good 
letters. '^ You do not seem to me, good man,'* I said, '' to think 
rightly. For if any foreigner were to come to the king, such as the 
ambassadors {oraiorea) of princes are, and an answer had to be given to 
him, your son, if he were educated as you wish, could only blow his 
horn, and the learned sons of rustics would be called to answer, and 
would be far preferred to your hunter or fowler son ; and they, 
enjoying their learned liberty, would say to your face, * We prefer to 
be learned, and, thanks to our learning, no fools, than boast of pur 
fool-like nobilily. ' " Then he upon this, looking round, said, " Who 
is this person that is talking like this % I don't know the fellow." 
And when some one whispered in his ear who I was, he muttered 
something or other in a low voice to himself ; and finding a fool to 
listen to him, he then caught hold of a cup of wine. And when he 

Bsi libertate, tibi in faciem dicerent, Nos maloxniu docti esse, & p«r doctrinam 
nofi impradentea, qtMiti stolta gloriari nobilitate. Turn iUe hincinde circumspiciena, 
Quii est iate, inqnit, qm haBC loquitur f hominem non cognoeco. Et quum dioeretur 
in aturem ei quianam eaaem, nescio qind aubmiasa uooe sibimet suBurrajM, & 
stolto uaoa anditore, illioo arripnit aini poculnifi. Et quum nihil baberet respon- 
dendnm, OflBpit bibere, & in aJia sermonem transferre. Et sio me Uberanit, non 
ApoUo, nt Horatiam a garrolo, Bed Baochua a uesani hominia disputatione, quam 
dintioa longe darataram nehementer timebam. 
Professor Brewer givea me the reference. 



Xiv APPRENTICESHIP IN HENEY VII. 's TIME. 

could get notHng to answer, he began to drink, and change the con- 
versation to other things. And thus I was freed from the disputing 
of this mad fellow, — which I was dreadfully afraid would have lasted 
a long time, — ^not by Apollo, like Horace was from his babbler, but 
by Bacchus. 

On the general subject it should be noted that Fleta mentions 

nothing about boarders or apprentices in his account of household 

economy ; nor does the Liher Contrarottdatoris GarderohcB Edw. 

/*** mention any young noblemen as part of the King's household. 

That among tradesmen in later times, putting out their cliildren 

in other houses, and apprenticeships, were the rule, we know from 

many statements and allusions in our literature, and *' The Italian 

Eelation of England" (temp. Hen. VII.) mentions that the Duke 

of Suffolk was boarded out to a rich old widow, who persuaded 

him to marry her (p. 27). It also says 

The want of affection in the English is strongly manifested 
towards their children ; for after having kept them at home till they 
arrive at the age of 7 or 9 years at the utmost, they put them out, 
both males and females, to hard service in the houses of other 
people, binding them generally for another 7 or 9 years. And these 
are called apprentices, and during that time they perform all the most 
menial offices ; and few are bom who are exempted from this fate, 
for every one, however rich he may be, sends away his children into 
the houses of others, whilst he, in return, receives those of strangers 
into his own. And on inquiring their reason for this severity, they 
answered that they did it in order that their children might learn 
better manners. But I, for my part, believe that they do it because 
they like to ei\joy all their comforts themselves, and that they are 
better served by strangers than they would be by their own children. 
. Besides which, the English being great epicures, and very avaricious 
by nature, indulge in the most delicate fare themselves and give their 
household the coarsest bread, and beer, and cold meat baked on 
Sunday for the week, which, however, they allow them in great 
abundance. That if they had their own cliildren at home, they would 
be obliged to give them the same food they made use of for themselves. 
That if the English sent their children away from home to learn virtue 
and good manners, and took them back again when their apprentice- 
ship was over, they might, perhaps, be excused; but they never 
return, for the girls are settled by their patrons, and the boys make 
the best marriages they can, and, assisted by their patrons, not by 
their fathers, they also open a house and strive diligently by this 
means to make some fortune for themselves ; whence it proceeds that, 
having no hope of their paternal inheritance, that all become so 



FO&KWOBDB. XV 

greedy of gain that they feel no shame in asking, almost '* for the 
love of God," for the smallest sums of money ; and to this it may be 
attributed, that there is no injury that can be committed against the 
lower orders of the English, that may not be atoned for by money. — 
A Bdation of the Island of England (Gamden Society, 1847), pp. 
24-6. 

* * This evidently refers to tradesmen. * The note by the Editor^ how- 
ever says it was the case with the children of the first nobility,' and 
gives the terms for the Duke of Buckingham's children with Mrs 
HexstalL The document only shows that Mrs Hexstall boarded 
them by contract * during the time of absence of my Lord and my 
Ladie.'" 

The Earl of Essex says in a letter to Lord Burleigh, 1576, printed 

in Murdin's State Papers, p. 301-2. 

" Xoverthelesse, uppon the assured Confidence, that your love to 
me shall dissend to my Childrenne, and that your Lordship will 
declare yourself a Frend to me, both alive and dead, I have willed 
Mr WaierJumse to shew unto you how you may with Honor and 
Equity do good to my Sonne Hereford, and how to bind him with 
perpetual Frendship to you and your House. And to the Ende I 
wold have his Love towardes those which are dissended from you 
spring up and increase with his Yeares, I have wished his Education 
to be in your Household, though the same had not bene allotted to 
your Lordship as Master of the Wardes ; and that the whole Tyme, 
which he shold spend in England in his I^Iinority, might be devided 
in Attendance uppon my Lord CJiamherlayne and you, to the End, 
that as he might frame himself to the Example of my Lord of Sussex 
in all the Actions of his Life, tending either to the Warres, or to the 
Institution of a Nobleman, so that he might also reverence your 
Lordship for your Wisdome and Gravyty, and lay up your Counsells 
and Advises in the Treasory of his Hart." 

That girls, as well as boys, were sent out to noblemen's houses for 

their education, is evident from Margaret Paston's letter of the 3rd 

of April, 1469, to Sir John Paston, " Also I would ye should purvey 

for your sister p Margery] to be with my Lady of Oxford, or with 

my Lady of Bedford, or in some other worshipful place whereas ye 

think best, and I will help to her finding, for we be either of us 

weary of other." Alice Crane's Letter, in the Paston Letters, v. i. p. 

1 1 Ab to agricaltural laboureis and their children a.d. 1388-1 406, see below, p. xlvi. 
' Headers will find it advisable to verify for themselves some of the statements 
in this Editor's notes, &c. 



Xvi GIRLS SENT OUT TO LADIES* HOUSES. 

35, ecL 1840, also supports this view, as does Sir Jolin Heyeninghani's 

to Maigaret Paston, asking her to take his cousin Anneys Loyeday 

for some time as a boarder till a mistress could be found for her. " If 

that it please you to have her with you to into the time that a 

mistress may be purveyed for her, I pray you thereof, and I shall 

content you for her board that ye shall be well pleased." Similarly 

Anne Boleyn and her sister were sent to Margaret of Savoy, aunt of 

Charles V., who lived at Brussels, to learn courtesy, &c., says Prof. 

Brewer. Sir Koger Twysden says that Anne was " Not above seven 

yeares of age. Anno 1514," \viien she went abroad. He adds : 

** It should seeme by some that she served three in France suc- 
cessively ; Mary of England maryed to Lewis the twelfth, an. 1514, 
with whome she went out of England, but Lewis dying ike first of 
January following, and that Queene (being) to returne home, sooner 
than either Sir Thomas Bullen or some othei* of her frendes liked she 
should, she was preferred to Clauda, daughter to Lewis XII. and 
wife to Francis I. then Queene (it is likely upon the commendation 
of Mary the Dowager), who not long after dying, an. 1524, not yet 
weary of France she went to live with Marguerite, Dutchess of 
Alan9on and Berry, a Lady much commended for her favor towards 
good letters, but never enough for the Protestant religion then in the 
infancy — ^from her, if I am not deceived, she first learnt the grounds 
of the Protestant religion ; so that England may seem to owe some 
part of her happyness derived from that Lady." (Twysden's Notes 
quoted by Singer in his ed. of Cavendish's Life of Wolsey, 1825, p. 
57.) 

As Henry VIIL fell in love with his wife's maid of honour, — 
** began to kindle the brand of amours " at the light of AnneBoleyn's 
beauty, " her excellent gesture and behaviour," — so we fiiid in later 
times rich young men became enamoured of poor young women stay- 
ing in the same house with them. Mr Bruce sends me an instance : 

"the young lady was niece, you will perceive, to a well-beneficed 
clergyman, and a thriving gentleman well-advanced in the public 
service. She had lost her mother, and her father was in debt and 
difficulties. She was therefore placed by the infiiUence of her uncles 
in a well-known family in Wiltshire." 

State Papers, Dom. Car. I. Vol. cccliL No. 29. Dr Matthew 
Nicholas, afterwards Dean of St Paul's, to Edward Nicholas, Clerk 
of the Council, and afterwards Secretary of State. Dated, West 
Dean, April 4, 1637. 

" I have spoken with Miss Evelyn since I wrote last unto you, 
and enquired of her the cause w^ich moued her to displace my coson 



FOBEWOBDS. XYU 

Hunton. She told me much accordinge to what she had sayd unto 

my coson Hunton, with this addition, that she had respect in it aa 

well unto her good as her owne convenience, for hauinge nowe noe 

employment for her but her needle, she founde that sittinge still at 

her worke made her sickly, and therefore thought she might doe 

better in another seruice where she might haue the orderinge of an 

huswifely chaige, for wAich (she told me) she had made her very 

able. I expressed myselfe tender of the disgrace which would lay 

uppon my coson in beinge displaced in such a manner by waminge 

giuen, wherof whatsoeuer were the cause, it would be imagined by 

all that knowe it not, to be in her ill carriage, and wished she had 

done me that fauour as to haue acquainted me with her intents in 

such time as I might haue taken some course to haue disposed of her 

before it had bin knowne that she was to leaue her : she slubbered it 

oner wtth a slight excuse that she had acquainted my wife .... but 

for my satisfaction she told me that she would be as mindftJl of her 

when Grod should call her as if she were with her, and in testimony 

of her good Ukinge of her seruice she would allowe her forty shillings 

yearly towarde her maintainance as longe as herself should line. I 

am soe well acquainted w^th what she hath as yet disposed to her by 

will, and soe little value forty shillings to my coson Hunton's credit, 

as I gaue her noe thankes. Mr Downes (1 heare) is sent for home 

by his father with, an intent to keepe him with him, but I doe imagine 

that when my coson Hunton shall be other where disposed off, he 

shall retume ; for my conceit is stronge that the feare of his beinge 

match'd to his disadvantage, who was placed with Mr Evelyn a youth 

to be bred for his preferment, hath caused this alteration ; howsoever 

there be noe wordes made of it. I confess that when I have bin told 

of the good will that was obserued betweene my coson Hunton and 

Mr Downes, I did put it by wVth my coson Huntons protestation to 

the contrary, and was wilHnge by that neglect to have suffered it to 

have come to pass (if it mought have bin) beoause I thought it would 

haue bin to her aduantage, but nowe that the busines is come to this 

issue (as whatsoeuer be prdiended I am confident this is the cause of 

my cosons partinge) I begin to qusestion my discretion. . . . Good 

brother, let me haue your aduise what to do." 

2. Home and Pripate Education. Of these, more or less must 
have been going on all over England, by private tutors at home, or in 
the houses of the latter. '' In five years (after my baptism) I was 
handed over by my father to Siward, a noble priest, to be trained in 
letters, to whose mastery I was subdued during five years learning 
the first rudiments. But in the eleventh year of my age I was given 
up by my own father for the love of God, and destined to enter the 
service of the eternal King." — Ord&ric^ vol. iL p. 301, ed. Prevost 



XViii PRIVATE TUITION IN EAULY ENGLAND. 

From Adam Je Marisco's Letters, 53, we find that Heniy and 
Almeric, the eldest and youngest sons of the Earl of Montfort, were 
put under Grosseteste for tuition, he being then a Bishop. At Paris, 
John of Salisbury (who died in 1180) gained a living by teaching the 
sons of noblemen, — (instruendos sueceperam, 7 took them in to board). 
— MetalogicuSf lib. 11, c. 10. 

Henry of Huntingdon says, " Eichard, the king's (Henry I.'s) 
bastard son, -was honourably brought up {festive nidritus) by our 
Bishop Kobert (Blote of Lincoln), and duly reverenced by me and 
others in the same household I lived in." — Anglia Sacra, voL ii. p. 
696. Giraldus Cambrensis speaks of beating his cocetanei et conscolares 
terroB suce, of being reproved for idleness by his imcle, the Bishop of 
St David's, and of being constantly chaffed by two of his uncle's 
chaplains, who used to decline durua and stuitus to him. Also he 
alludes to the rod. Probably there was some sort of school at either 
Pembroke or St David's. — De Rebus a se Gestisy lib. 1, c. 2.* 

The Statutes of a Gild of young Scholars formed to bum lights 
in honour of some saint or other, and to help one another in sick- 
ness, old age, and to burial, will be printed for us by Mr Toulmin 
Smith in the Early English Text Society's books this year. 

Under this head of Private Tuition we may class the houses of 

Abbots, where boys of good birth were educated. In his History of 

English Poetry, section 36, voL iii p. 9, ed. 1840, Warton says : 

" It appears to have been customary for the governors of the most 
considerable convents, especially those that were honoured with the 
mitre, to receive into their own private lodgings the sons of the prin- 
cipal families of the neighbourhood for education. About the year 
1450, Thomas Bromele, abbot of the mitred monastery of Hyde near 
Winchester, entertained in his own abbatial house within that 
monastery eight young gentlemen, or gentiles pueri, who were placed 
there for the purpose of literary instruction, and constantly dined at 
the abbot's table. I will not scruple to give the original words, 
which are more particular and expressive, of the obscure record 
which preserves this curious anecdote of monastic life. * Pro octo 
gentilibus pueris apuddondnum ahbatem stttdii causa perhendinantibuSj 
et ad mensam domini victitantibuSf cum gardonilms suis ipsos comi- 
tantihuSf Tioc anno, xviiZ. ix«. Capiendo pro^ . . ," This, by the way, 

^ The foregoing three extracts are sent me hy a friend. 
' From a fragment of the Computus Camerarii Ahhat Hidens. in Archiv. 
"Wulyes. apud Winton. ut supr. (? Hist. Eeg. Angl. edit. Heame, p. 74.) 



FOREWORDS. XIX 

was more extraordinary, as William of "Wykeham's celebrated 
seminary was so near. And this seems to have been an established 
practice of the abbot of Glastonbury, "whose apartment in the 
abbey was a kind of well-disciplined court, where the sons of noble- 
men and young gentlemen were wont to be sent for virtuous educa- 
tion, who retunied thence home excellently accomplished.^" Eichard 
Whiting, the last abbot of Glastonbury, who was cruelly executed by 
the king, during the course of his government educated near three 
hundred ingenuous youths, who constituted a part of his family ; 
beside many others whom he liberally supported at the universities.* 
Whitgift, tie meet excellent and learned archbishop of Canterbury 
in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, was educated under Eobert Whitgift 
his uncle, abbot of the Augustine monastery of black canons at 
Wellhow in Lincolnshire, " who," says Strype " had several other 
young gentlemen tinder his care for education." (Strype's Whitgift, 
V. L ch. L p. 3.) 

Of Lydgate — about 1420-30 a.d. I suppose — Prof. Morley says in 

his English Writers, vol. iL Pt. I. p. 423 : 

" After studying at Oxford, Paris, and Padua, and after mastering 
with special delight the writings of such poets as Dante, Boccaccio, 
and Alain Chartier, Lydgate opened at his monastery of Bury St 
Edmund's a school of rhetoric in which he taught young nobles 
literature and the art of versifying ! " 

Bichard Pace says in his De Fructu, 1617: 

" "Now the learning of music too demands its place, especially 
from me whom it distinguished when a boy amongst boys. For 
Thomas Langton, bishop of Winchester (the predecessor of him who is 
now living), whose secretary I was, when he had marked that I was 
making a proficiency in music far beyond my age (as himself — per- 
chance from his too great affection for me — ^would point out and 
repeatedly say), * The talent of this lad,* he said, * is bom for greater 
things,' and a few days afterwards he sent me, to pursue the study of 
literature, into Italy, to the school at Padua, which then was at its 
greatest prime, and benevolently supplied the annual expenses, as he 
showed wonderful favour to all men of letters, and in his day played 
the part of a second Mecaenas, well remembering (as he ofttimes said) 
that he had been advanced to the episcopal dignity on account of 
his learning. For he had gained, with the highest commendation, the 
distinctions of each law* (as they say now-ardays). Also he so 
highly prized the study of Humanity * that he had boys and youths 

* Hist, and Astiq. of Glastonbury. Oxon. 1722, 8yo, p. 98. 

' Bejner, Apoetolat. Benedict. Tract. 1, sect. ii. p. 224. Sanders de Schism. 
F*ge 176. 

* tUrkuqueJuriBj Canon and Civil. 

* Lit. humaniorea. Latin is still called so in Scotch, and French (I think), 
uiiiTersities. J. W. Hales. 

c2 



XX EDUCATION AT HOME AND AT TUTORS*. 

instructed in it at a school in liis house; And he was vastly 
delighted to hear the scholars repeat to him at night the lessons 
given them by the teacher during the day. In this competition he 
who had borne himself notably went away with a present of some- 
thing suitable to his character, and with commendation expressed in. 
the most refined language ; for that excellent governor had ever in 
his mouth the maxim that merit grows with praise." * 

Palsgrave in 1530 speaks of "maister Petrus Vallensys, scole 
maister to his [Charles, Duke of Suffolk's] excellent yong sonne the 
Erie of Lyncolne." 

Roger Ascham, author of the Scholemasfer, &c., bom in 1515, 

" was . received at a very youthful age into the family of Sir 
Antony Wingfield, who furnished money for his education, and 
placed Roger, together with his own sons, under a tutor whose 
name was Bond. The boy had by nature a taste for books, and 
showed his good taste by reading English in preference to Latin, 
with wonderful eagerness. This was the more remarkable from the 
fact that Latin was still the language of literature, and it is not 
likely that the few English books written at that time were at all 
largely spread abroad in places far away from the Universities and 
Cathedral towns. In or about the year 1630, Mr Bond the domestic 
tutor resigned the charge of young Roger, who was now about fifteen 
years old, and by the advice and pecuniary aid of his kind patron 
Sir Antony, he was enabled to enter St John's College, Cambridge, 
at that time the most famous seminary of learning in all England . . 
he took his bachelor's degree in 1531, Feb. 18, in the 18th year of 
his age [" being a boy, new bachelor of art," he says himself^] a time 
of life at which it is now more common to enter the University than 
to take a degree, but which, according to the modes of education 

^ (Pace de Fruetu^ p. 27-) Exigit iam suum musica quoque doctrina locum, a me 
prsBsertim, quem puerwm inter pueros illustrayit. Nam Thomas Langton Yyntonl- 
ensifl episcopus, decessor huius qui nunc [1617 a.d.] uiuit, cui cram a mana 
minister, quum notasset me longe supra aetatem (ut ipse nimis fortasse amans mei 
iudicabat, & dictitabat) in musicis proficere, Huius, inquit, pueri ingenium ad 
maiora natum est. & paucos post dies in Italiam ad Patauinum gymnasium, quod 
tunc florentissimum erat, ad bonas literas discendas me misit, annuasqw impensus 
benigne suppeditauit, ut omnibus literatis mirifice fauebat, k setate sua alterum 
Mecenatem agcbat, probe memor (ut frequenter dictitabat) sese doctrinsd causa ad 
episcopalem dignitatem proueotum. Adcptus enim fiierat per summam laudem, 
utriusqu^ iuris (ut nunc loquuntur) insignia. Item humaniores literas tanti esti- 
mabat, ut domestica schola pueros & iuuenes illis erudiendos curarit. Et summo« 
pere oblectabatur audire scholasticos dictata interdiu a prseceptore, sibi nocta 
reddere. In quo certamine qui pr»clare se gesserat, is aliqua re personae suae 
accommodata, donatus abibat, & humanissimis uerbis landatus. Habebet eni'm 
semper in ore ille optimus Prsssul, uirtutem laudatam crescere. 



FOREWORDS. itxi 

then in use, was not thought premature. On the 23rd of March 
following, he was elected fellow of the College." Giles's Life of 
Ascham, Works, voL L p. xi-xiv. 

Dr Clement and his wife were brought up in Sir T. More's house. 
Clement was taken &om St Paul's school, London, appointed tutor 
to More's children, and afterwards to his daughter Margaret, p. 402, 
coL 1. 

What a young nobleman learnt in Henry the Eighth's time may be 
gathered from the following extracts (partly given by Mr Froude, 
Hist., V. L p. 39-40) from the letters of young Gregory Cromwell's 
tutor, to his father, the Earl of Essex, the King's Chief Secretary. 

" The order of his studie, as the houres lymyted for the Frenche 
tongue, writinge, plaienge att weapons, castinge of accomptes, pas- 
times of instruments, and suche others, hath bene devised and 
directed by the prudent wisdome of Mr Southwell ; who vrith a 
ffatherly zeale and amitie muche desiringe to have hime a sonne 
worthy suche parents, ceasseth not aswell conceminge all other 
things for hime mete and necessary, as also in lerninge, t'expresse his 
tendre love and affection towardes hime, serchinge by all meanes 
possible howe he may moste proffitte, dailie heringe hime to rede sum- 
whatt in thenglishe tongue, and advertisenge hime of the naturell 
and true kynde of pronuntiacon therof, expoundinge also and declar- 
ii^ the etunologie and native signification of suche wordes as we have 
borowed of the Latines or Frenche menne, not evyn so comonly 
used in our quotidiene speche. Mr Cheney and Mr Charles in lyke 
wise endevoireth and emploieth themselves, accompanienge Mr 
Gregory in lerninge, amonge whome ther is a perpetuall contention, 
strife, and conflicte, and in maner of an honest envie who shall do 
beste, not oonlie in the ffrenche tongue (wherin Mr Yallence after a 
wonderesly compendious, facile, prompte, and redy waye, nott with- 
oute painfull delegence and laborious industrie doth enstructe them) 
but also in writynge, playenge at weapons, and all other theire exer- 
cises, so that if continuance in this bihalf may take place, whereas 
the laste Diana, this shall (I truste) be consecrated to Apollo and the 
Muses, to theire no small profecte and your good contentation and 
pleasure. And thus I beseche the Lord to have you in his moste 
gratious tuition. 

At Beisinge in Norff[olk] the last dale of ApriU. 
Your faithfull and most bounden servaunte 

Henry Dowes. 

To his right honorable maister Mr Thomas Crumwell 
chief Secretary vnto the King's Maiestie." 

Ellis, Original Letters, Series L voL L p. 341-3. 

The next Letter gives further details of Gregory's studies — 



XXU STUDIES OF YOUTHS, TESfP. HEN. VIII. AND ELIZABETH. 

"But forcause somer was spente in the servyce of the wylde 
goddes, it is so moche to be regarded after what fashion yeouth is 
educate and browght upp, in wjiiche tyme that that is lemed (for the 
moste parte) will nott all holelie be forgotten in the older yeies, I 
thiuke it my dutie to asserteyne yo' Maiatershippe how he spendith 

his tyme And firste, after he hath herde Masse he taketh a 

lecture of a Diologe of Erasmus Colloquium, called Pietas Puerilis, 
whereinne is described a veray picture of oone that sholde be vertu- 
ouselie brought upp ; and forcause it is so necessary for hime, I do not 
onelie cause him to rede it over, but also to practise the preceptes of 
the same, and I have, also translated it into Englishe, so that he may 
conferre theime both to-githers, whereof (as lemed men affinne) 
Cometh no smalle profecte* . . after that, he exerciseth his hande in 
writing one or two houres, and redith uppon Fabian's Chronicle as 
longe ; the residue of the day he doth spende uppon the lute and 
virginalls. When he rideth (as he doth very ofte) I tell hime by the 
way some historic of the Eomanes or the Greekes, whiche I cause him 
to reherse agayn in a tale. For his recreation he liseth to hawke 
and hunte, and shote in his long bowe, which frameth and succedeth 
so well with hime that he semeth to be therunto given by nature." 

Ellis, L 343-4. 

Of the course of study of * weU-bred youths' in the early years of 
Elizabeth's reign we have an interesting account by Sir Nicholas 
Bacon, Lord Keeper, father of the great Bacon, in a Paper by Mr J. 
Payne Collier in the Archceologia, voL 36, Part 2, p. 339, Article 
xxxi.^ " Before he became Lord Keeper, Sir Nicholas Bacon had 
been Attorney of that Court" [the Court of Wards and Liveries] " a 
most lucrative appointment ; and on the 27th May, 1561, he addressed 
a letter to Sir William Cecil, then recently (Jan., 1561) made Master 
of the Wards, followed by a paper thus entitled : — * Articles devised 
for the bringing up in vertue and learning of the Queenes Majesties 
Wardes, being heires males, and whose landes, descending in pos- 
session and coming to the Queenes Majestic, shall amount to the 
cleere yearly value of c markes, or above.*" Sir Nicholas asks the 
new Master of Wards to reform what he justly calls most " prepos- 
terous" abuses in the department :^" That the proceeding hath bin 
preposterous, appeareth by this : the chiefe thinge, and most of price, 
in wardeship, is the wardes mynde ; ihe next to that, his bodie ; the 

^ Ascham praiBOS most the practice of doable translation, from Latin into 
£ng^li;ih, and then back from English into Latin. — SchoUmaater, p. 90, 178, ed. Giles. 
2 Mr Win. Chappell gives me the reference, and part of the extract. 



FOREWORDS. XXlll 

last and meanest, his land. 'Nowo, hitherto the chiefe care of govern- 
annce hath bin to the land, being the meaneste ; and to the bodie, 
being the better, very small ; but to the mynde, being the best, none 
at all, which methinkes is playnely to sett the carte before the horse" 
(p. 343). Mr Collier then summarises Bacon's Articles for the 
bringing up of the Wards thus : " The wards are to attend divine 
service at six in the morning : nothing is said about breakfast,^ but 
they are to study Latin until eleven; to dine between 11 and 12 ; to 
study with the music-master from 12 till 2 ; from 2 to 3 they are to 
be with the French master ; and from 3 to 5 with the Latin and 
Greek masters. At 5 they are to go to evening prayers ; then thoy 
are to sup ; to be allowed honest pastimes till 8 ; and, last of all, 
before they go to bed at 9, they are again to apply themselves to 
music under the instruction of the master. At and after the age of 
16 they were to attend lectures upon temporal and civil law, as well 
as de disciplind militari. It is not necessary to insert farther 
details ; but what I have stated will serve to show how well-bred 
youths of that period were usually brought up, and how disgracefully 
the duty of education as regards wards was neglected. . . It may 
appear singular that in these articles drawn up by Sir Nicholas, so 
much stress is laid upon instruction in music ^; but it only serves to 
confirm the notion that the science was then most industriously cul- 
tivated by nearly every class of society." Pace in 1517 requires that 
every one should study it, but should join with it some other study, 
as Astrology or Astronomy. He says also that the greatest part of 
the art had perished by men's negligence ; ^' For all that our 
musicians do now-a-days, is almost trivial if compared with what the 
old ones {aidiqui) did, so that now hardly one or two (^mi8 avi 
dUer) can be found who know what harmony is, though the word is 
always on their tongue.'* {De FructUy p. 54-5.) Ascham, while 
lamenting in 1545 {Toxqphilvs, p. 29) ' that the laudable custom of 

■ When did brettkfui get its name, and its first notice as a regular meal ? I 
do not remember haring seen the name in the early part of Hotuehold Ordinances, 
or any other work earlier than the Northumberland Household Book. 

* On Mosical Education, see the early pages of Mr ChappcU's Popular Musie, 
and the note in Archseol., vol. xx, p. 60-1, with its references. * Music constituted 
a part of the guadriciumf a branch of their system of education/ 



XXIY NEGLECT OF EDUCATION BT MOTHEBS. 

England to teach children their plain sang and pricknsong' is ' so 

decayed throughout all the realm as it is,' denounces the great practise 

of instrumental music by older students : *' the minstrelsy of lutes, 

pipes, harps, and all other that standeth by such nice, fine, minikin 

fingering, (such as the most part of scholars whom I know use, if they 

use any,) is far more fit, for the womanishness of it, to dweU in the 

Court among ladies, than for any great thing in it which should help 

good and sad study, to abide in the University among scholars." 

By 1574 our rich people, according to Harrison, attended properly 

to the education of their children. After speaking " of our women, 

whose beautie commonlie exceedeth the fairest of those of the maine," 

he says { 

" This neuerthelesse I vtterlie mislike in the poorer sort of them, 
for the wealthier doo sildome offend herein : that being of themselues 
without competent wit, they are so carelesse in the education of their 
children (wherein their husbands also are to be blamed,) by means 
whereof verie manie of them neither fearing God, neither regarding 
either manners or obedience, do oftentimes come to confusion, which 
(if anie correction or discipline had beene vsed toward them in youth) 
might haue prooued good members of their common-wefdth & coun- 
trie, by their good seruice and industrie." — Descr, of Britaine^ 
Holinshed, i. 115, col. 2.- 

This is borne out by Ascham, who says that young men up to 17 

were well looked after, but after that age were turned loose to get 

into all the mischief they liked : 

" In deede, from seven to seventene, yong jentlemen commonlie be 
carefullie enough brought up : But from seventene to seven and 
twentie (the most dangerous tyme of all a mans life, and most slip- 
perie to stay well in) they have commonlie the rein of all licens in 
their owne hand, and speciallie soch as do live in the Court And 
that which is most to be merveled at, commonlie the wisest and also 
best men be found the fondest fathers in this behalfe. And if som good 
father wold seek some remedie herein, yet the mother (if the house- 
hold of our Lady) had rather, yea, and will to, have her sonne cun- 
nyng and bold, in making him to lyve trimlie when he is yong, than 
by learning and travell to be able to serve his Prince & his countrie, 
both wiselie in peace, and stoutlie in warre, whan he is old. 

" The fault is in your selves, ye noble mens sonnes, and therfore ye 
deserve the greater blame, that commonlie the meaner mens children 
cum to be the wisest councellours, and greatest doers, in the weightie 
affaires of this realme." — Schotenuxster, ed. Mayor, p. 39-40. 

Note lastly, on this subject of private tuition, that Mulcaster in 



FOREWORDS. XXV 

his ElementariSy 1582, complains greatly of rich people aping the 
costom of princes in haying private tutors for their boys, and with- 
drawing them from public schools where the spirit of emulation 
against other boys would make them work. The course he recom- 
mends is, that rich people should send their sons, with their tutors, 
to the public schools, and so get the advantage of both kinds of tuition. 
GirU Home Education. The earliest notice of an English 
Governess that any friend has found for me is in " the 34th Letter 
of Osbert de Clare in Stephen's reign, a.d. 1135-54. He mentions 
what seems to be a Grovemess of his children, ' qucedam matrona qum 
Uberoa qjtis (sc. mUitis^ Hei'herti de Furcis) edttcare consueverai.^ She 
appears to be treated as one of the family : e. g. they wait for her 
when she goes into a chapel to pray. I think a nurse woiQd have 
been 'ancilla quag liberos ejus nutriendos susceperat.' " Walter de 
Biblesworth was the tutor of the ** lady Dionysia de Monchensi, a 
Kentish heiress, the daughter of William de Monchensi, baron of 
Swanescombe, and related, apparently, to the Valences, earls of 
Pembroke, and wrote his French Grammar, or rather Vocabulary \ 
for her. She married Hugh de Vere, the second son of Eobert^ 
fifth earl of Oxford. (Wright) Lady Jane Grey was taught 
by a tutor at home, as we have seen. Palsgrave was tutor to 
Henry VIIL's " most dere and most entirely beloved suster, queue 
^lary, douagier of France," and no doubt wrote his Leselaircissement de 
la Langue Franeotee mainly for her, though also '* desirous to do 
some humble service unto the nobilitie of this victorious realme, and 
imiversally unto all other estates of this my natyfe country.'* Giles 
Du Guez, or as Palsgrave says to Henry VIIL, " the synguler clerke, 
maister Gyles Dewes, somtyme instructor to your noble grace in this 
selfe tong, at the especiall instaunce and request of dyvers of your 
highe estates and noble men, hath also for his partye written in this 
matter." His book is entitled ^* An Introductorie for to lerne to 
rede, to pronounce & to speke French trewly : compyled for the 
Right high, excellent^ and most vertuous lady The Lady Mary of 



1 Le treytjz ke moun sire Gaater de Bibeleswortbe fist k ha dame Dyonibie ds 
MouNCHEKBY, puT apiiso de langwage. 



XXVI UNIVERSITY EDUCATION IN EABLT ENGLAND. 

Englande, dougliter to our most gracious soverayn Lorde Kyng Henry 
the Eight" 

3. English University Education, In early days Cambridge and 

Oxford most be looked on, I suppose, as mainly the great schools for 

boys, and the generality of scholars as poor men's children,^ like 

Chaucer's ' poore scolares tuo that dwelten in the soler-halle of Cante- 

bregge/ his Clerk of Oxenford, and those students, gifts to whom are 

considered as one of the regular burdens on the husbandman, in '^ Gk)d 

speed the Plough." Mr Froude says, Hist, of England, I. 37 : 

"The universities were well filled, by the sons of yeomen 
chiefly. The cost of supporting them at the colleges was little, and 
wealthy men took a pride in helping forward any boys of promise* 
{Latimer^ 8 Sermons^ p. 64). It seems clear also, as the Reformation 
drew nearer, while the clergy were sinking lower and lower, a marked 
change for the better became perceptible in a portion at least of the 
laity." 

-But Grosseteste mentions a " noble" scholar at Oxford {Eplst, 129), 

and Edward the Black Prince and Henry V. are said to have been 

students of Queen's College, Oxford. Wolsey himself was a College 

tutor at Oxford, and had among his pupils the sons of the .Marquess 

of Dorset, who afterwards gave him his first preferment, the living 

of Lymington. (Chappell) 

^ Later on, the proportions of poor and rich changed, as may be inferred from 
the extract from Harrison below. In the * exact account of the whole number (2920) 
of Scholars and Students in the Uniyersity of Oxford taken anno 1612 in the Long 
Vacation, the Studentea of Christ Church are 100, the Fauperea Scholares et alii 
Servientet 41 ; at Magdalene the latter are 76 ; at New College 18, to 70 Socii; at 
Brasenose (^neaflense Coll.) the Communarii are 145, and the Fauperct Seholarea 
17; at Exeter, the latter are 37, to 134 Communarii; at St John's, 20 to 43 ; at 
Lincoln the Communarii are 60, to 27 Batellatorea et Fauperea Seholares* Collectanea 
Curiosa, y. i. p. 196-203. 

' Was this in return for the raised rents that Ascham so bitterly complains of 
the new possessors of the monastic lands screwing out of their tenants, and thereby 
ruining the yeomen ? He says to the Duke of Somerset on Noy. 21, 1547 (ed. 
Giles, i. p. 140-1), 

Qui auctores sunt tante miserias ? . . Sunt ill! qui hodie passim, in Anglia, 
prfedia monasteriorum grayissimis annuis reditibus auxerunt Hmc omnium reruni 
exauctum pretium ; hi homines expilant totam rempublicam. Villici et coloni uni- 
yersi laborant, parcunt, corradunt, ut istis satisfaciant. . . Hinc tot familis dissi-^ 
patffi, tot domus collapso) . . Hinc, quod omnium miserriuium est, nobile illud decus' 
et robur Anglic, nomen, inquam, Tomanorum Anglorum, fractum et collisum est. . . 
Nam vita, qu^b nunc vivitub a plubimis, non yixA^ bed misebia est. 

When will these words cease to be true of our land ? They should be burnt into 

all our hearts. 



F0BEW0BD8. ZXVU 

The legend miiB that the first school at Oxford was founded by 
King Alfired'y and that Oxford was a place of study in the time of 
Edward the Confessor (1041-66). If one may quote a book now 
considered to be * a monkish forgery and an exploded authority,' In- 
gulfus, who was Abbot of Croyland, in the Isle of Ely, under William 
the Conqueror, says of himself that he was educated first at West- 
nunster, and then passed to Oxford, where he made proficiency in such 
books of Aristotle as were then accessible to students,' and in the 
first two books of Tull/s ^Rhetoric. — Maiden^ On the Origin of 
UniYersities, 1835, p. 71. 

In 1201 Oxford is called a University, and said to have contained 
3000 scholars; in 1253 its first College (University) is founded. 
In 1244, Hen. III. grants it its first privileges as a corporate body, 
and confirms and extends them in 1245. In his reign. Wood says 
the number of scholars amounted to 30,000, a number no doubt 
greatly exaggerated. 

In the reign of Stephen it is said that Yacarius, a Lombard by 
birth, who had studied the civil law at Bologna, came into England, 
and formed a school of law at Oxford^ . . he remained in England in 
the reign of Henry II. On account of>.the difficulty and expense of 
obtaining copies of the original books of the Eomon law, and the 
poverty of his English scholars, Vacarius [ab. 1149, A.D.] compiled an 
abridgment of the Digests and Codex, in which their most essential 
parts were preserved, with some difference of arrangement, and 
illustrated from other law-books. . . It bore on its title that it was 
^^pauperibus presertim dest hiatus ;" and hence the Oxford students 
of law obtained the name of Pauperists. — Maiden, p. 72-3. 

Eoger Bacon (who died 1248) speaks of a young fellow who came 

1 '* He placed iEthelweard, his youngest boh, who was fond of learning) together 
with the sons of his nohility, and of many persons of inferior rank, in schools which 
he had established with great wisdom and foresight, and provided with able masters. 
In these schools the youth were instructed in reading and writing both the Saxon 
and Latin languages, and in other liberal arts, before they arrived at sufficient 
strength of body for hunting, and other manly exercises becoming their rank." 
Henry, History of England, vol. ii. pp. 854-5 (quoted from Ass6r}. 

* None were so. T. Wright, 

' Professor Rogers says : ** There is no evidence that Yacarius lectured at Oxford. 
The statement is a mistake made by Hallam on a passage in John of Salisbury 
quoted by Seldcn." 



XXYIU POVERTY OF UNIVERSITY SCHOLAR& 

to him, aged 15, not having wherewithal to live, or finding proper 
masters : '* because he was obliged to serve those who gave him 
necessaries, during two years found no one to teach hun a word in 
the things he learned." — Opus^ Tertium, cap. xx. In 1214 the Com- 
monalty of Oxford agreed to pay 52s. yearly for the use of poor 
scholars, and to give 100 of them a meal of bread, ale, and pottage, 
with one large dish of flesh or fish, every St Nicholas day. — WoocCs An. 
i 185. WoocPs Annals (ed. Gutch, v. L p. 619-20) also notes that 
in 1461 A.D. divers Scholars were forced to get a license under the 
Chancellor's hand and seal (according to the Stat. 12 Eic. II., a.d. 
1388, /&., p. 619) to beg : and Sir Thos. More says " then may wee 
yet, like poor Scholars of Oxford, go a begging with our baggs & 
wallets, & sing salve Regina at rich mens dores." On this point we 
may also compare the Statutes of Walter de Merton for his College 
at Oxford, a.d. 1274, ed. HalliweU, 1843, p. 19 : 

Cap. 13. De admissione scholarium. 

Hoc etiam in eadem domo specialiter observari volo et decemo, ut 
circa eos, qui ad hujusmodi eleemosinsB participationem admittendi 
f uerint, diligenti solicitudine caveatur, ne qui praster castos, honestos, 
pacificos, humiles, indigerUes, ad studium habiles ac proficere volentes, 
admiiMantur. Ad quorum agnitionem singulis, cimi in dicta societate 
fuerint admittendi sustentationis gratia in eadem, ad annum unum 
utpote probationis causa primitus concedatur, ut sic demum si in 
dictis conditionibus laudabiliter se habuerint^ in dictam congrega- 
tionem admittantur. 

See also cap. 31, against horses of scholars being kept 

Lodgings were let according to the joint valuation of 2 Magistri 
(scholars) and two townsmen (probi et legales homines de Villa). 
Wood, L 255. An. 15 Hen. III. a.d. 1230-1. 

In the beginning of the 15th century it had become the estab- 
lished rule that every scholar must bo a member of some coUege or 
halL The scholars who attended the public lectures of the univer- 
sity, without entering themselves at any coUege or hall, were called 
chamber dekynsy as in Paris they were called martinets ; and fre- 
quent enactments were made against them. — Maiden, p. 85, ref. to 
Wood^a AnnaUj 1408, -13, -22, and 1512, &c. 

The following are the dates of the foundations of the different 
Colleges at Oxford as given in the University Calendar : — 



FOREWORDS. 



XXIX 



University Collie, 1 263-80 ' 

BaUiol ColL, betw. 1263 & 1268 

Merton CoU^^, fonnded at 
Maiden, in Surrey, in 
1264, removed to Oxford 
in 

Exeter College 

Oriel „ 

The Queen's College 

New 

Lincoln 

All Souls 



99 



9> 



1274 
1314 
1326 
1340 
1386 
1427 
1437 



Magdalen „ . . 1458 

The King's Hall and Col- J ^g^g 

lege of Brasenose j 

Corpus Christi College . . 1516 



Christ ChuTch 

Trinity College 

St John's 

Jesus 

Wadham 

Pembroke 

Worcester 



19 



99 



1626 
1554 
1555 
1671 
1613 
1624 
1714 



St Edmund HaU 
St Mary's 
New Inn 



» 



HALI^. 
1317 

1333 
1438 



Magdalen Hall 
St Alban 



97 



. . 1487 
after 1647 



' The Paston Letters ' do net give us much information about 

studies or life at Oxford, but they do give us material for estimating 

the cost of a student there (iL 124 ") ; they show us the tutor reporting 

to a mother her son's progress in learning (iL 130), and note the 

custom of a man, when made bachelor, giving a feast : ^ I was made 

bachelor . . on Friday was se'nnight (18 June, 1479), and I made my 

feast on the Monday after (21 June). I was promised venison 

against my feast, of my Lady Harcourt, and of pother person too, 

but I was deceived of both ; but my guests held them pleased with 

such meat as they had, blessed be God" The letter as to the costs 

is dated May 19, 1478. 

'^ I marvel sore that you sent me no word of the letter which I 
sent to you by Master William Brown at Easter. I sent you word 
that time that I should send you mine expenses particularly ; but as 
at this time the bearer hereof had a letter suddenly that he should 
come home, & therefore I could have no leisure to send them to you 
on that wise, & therefore I shall write to you in this letter the whole 
sum of my expenses since I was with you till Easter last past, and 

^ This College is said to bare been founded in tbe year 872, by Alfred tbe Great. 
It was restored by William of Dorbam, said to have been Archdeacon of Durham ; 
bnt respecting whom little autbentic information bas been preserved, except that be 
was Rector of Wearmontb in tbat county, and that be died in 1249, bequeathing a 
sum of money to provide a permanent endowment for tbe maintenance of a certain 
number of "Masters.*' Tbe first purchase witb tbis bequest was made in 1253, 
and the first Statutes are dated l2S0,^Oxford Univ. Calendar^ 1865, p. 167. 

' I refer to the modernized edition published by Cbarles Knigbt in two volumes. 



XXX undergraduate's expenses at oxford, 1478. 

also the receipts, reckoning the twenty shillings that I had of you to 
Oxon wards, with the bishop's finding : — 

The whole sum of receipts is 5 17 6 

And the whole sum of expenses is 6 5 5| 

And that [=what] cometh over my receipts & my 
expenses I have liorrowed of Master Edmund, & it 
draweth to.. .. .. .. .. .. .. 80 

and yet I reckon none expenses since Easter ; but as for them, they 
be not great." 

On this account Fenn says, 

" he (Wm. Paston) had expended £6 5«. 5 jd from the time he 
left his mother to Easter last, which this year fell on the 22nd 
March, from which time it was now two months, & of the expenses 
* since incurred ' he says ' they be not great' We may therefore con- 
clude the former account was from the Michaelmas*preceding, and a 
moderate one ; if so, we may fairly estimate his imiversity education 
at £100 a-year of our present money. I mean that £12 10«. 11^. 
would then procure as many necessaries and comforts as £100 will 
at this day." 

What was the basis of Fenn's calculation he does not say. In 

1468, the estimates for the Duke of Clarence's household expenses 

give these prices, among others : 

8. d. 

now, say 





8. 


d. 


Wheat, a quarter 


6 





Ale, a gallon 




U 


Beves, less hide and tallow, each 


10 





Muttons „ „ 


1 


4 


Velys „ „ 


2 


6 


Porkes „ „ 


2 





Eice, a pound 




3 


Sugar „ 




6 


Holland, an eU (6d, 8cf., I6d.) 




10 


Diapre „ 


4 


6 


Towelles „ 


1 


8 


Napkyns, a dozen, 12a, £1, £2, 


17 


4 



99 
» 

97 
99 

n 

99 
99 
99 
99 



£ 


8. d. 


3 







1 


16 


0* 


2 


10 0* 


4 


0* 


5 







6 




6 




1 3 




3 




1 6 


2 






£2 7 OJ £31 17 8 

This sum would make the things named nearly 14 times as dear 

now as in 1468, and raise Fenn's £100 to about £180; but no 

reliance can be placed on this estimate because we know nothing of 

the condition of the beves, muttons, veles, and porkys, then, as con- 

♦ Poor ones. 



FOREWORDS. 



ZXXl 



frasted with oius. Possibly they were half the size and half the 

weight. Still, I have referred the question to Professor Thorold 

Eogers, author of the Bi^ory of Prices 1250-1400 A.D., and he says : 

" In the year to which you refer (1478) bread was very dear, 50 
per centw above the average. But on the whole, wheat prices in the 
15th century were lower than in the 14th. Fenn's calculation, a 
little below the mark for wheat, is still less below it in most of the 
second necessaries of life. The multiple of wheat is about 9, that of 
meat at least 24, those of butter and cheese nearly as much. But 
that of clothing is not more than 6, that of Hnen from 4 to 5. 
Taking however one thing with another, 12 is a safe general multi- 
pHer." 

This would make the cost of young Paston's university education 
£150 lU M. a year. 

Mr Whiston would raise Fenn's estimate of £100 to £200. He 
says that the rent of land in Kent in 1540 was a shilling or eighteen- 
pence an acre, — see Valor Ecdesiastieus, — and that the tithes and 
glebes of the Dean and Chapter of Rochester, which were worth 
about £480 a-year in 1542, are now worth £19,000. 

The remaining Oxford letter in the Paston volumes seems to 

allude to the students bearing part of the expenses of the degree, or 

the feast at it, of a person related to royal family. 

" I supposed, when that I sent my letter to my brother John, 
that the Queen's brother should have proceeded at Midsummer, 
and therefore I beseeched her to send me some money, for it mill he 
9&me cost to mCy but not much." 

The first school at Cambridge is said to have been founded by 

Edward the Elder, the son of Alfred, but on no good authority. In 

1223 the term University was applied to the place. The dates of the 

foundations of its Colleges, as given in its Calendar, are : 



St Peter's 1257 

(date of charter, 1264) 

Clare Hall 1326 

Pembroke 1347 

Caius 1349 

Trinity HaQ . . . . 1350 

Corpus Christi . . . . 1351 

King's . . . . . . 1441 



St Catherine's Hall 
Jesus 

Christ's . , 
St John's . . 
Magdalene. . 
Trinity 
Emmanuel . . 
Sidney 
Downing . . 



1473 
1496 
1505 
1511 
1519 
1546 
1584 
1598 
1800 



Queen's 1446 

(refounded 1^5) 

Lord Henry Brandon, son of the Duke of Suffolk, died of the 



XXXU FEW NOBLEMEN AT CAMBRIDGE. 

sweating sickness then prevalent in the University, on the 16th 
July, 1551, while a student of Cambridge. His brother, Lord Charles 
Brandon, died on the same day. Their removal to Buckden was too 
late to save them (Ath. CaTtt., i. 105, 541). Of them Ascham says 
* two noble Primeroses of Nobilitie, the yong Duke of Suffolke and 
Lord H, Matrevers were soch two examples to the Courte for learnyng, 
as our tyme may rather wishe, than look for agayne.* — Scholemaster^ 
ed. Mayor, p. 62. Besides these two young noblemen, the first 104 
pages of Cooper's AtJienm Cantabrigiemes disclose only one other. 
Lord Derby's son, and the following names of sons of knights : ^ 

CAMBBIDGB HXN. 

1443 Thomas Rotherham, Fellow of King's, son of Sir Thomas 

Eotherham, knight, and Alice his wife. 
1494 Reginald Bray, high-steward of the university of Oxford, 

son of Sir Richard Bray, knight, and the lady Joan his 

second wife. 

1 Other well-bom men, in the Ath. Cant., then connected with the University, 
or supposed to be, were, 

1504 Sir Ro^r Ormston, knight, died. Had been High Steward of the 

University. 
1504 Sir John Mordaunt, High Steward. 

1478 George Fitzhugh, 4th son of Henry lord Fitzhneh, admitted B.A. 
1488 Bobert Ley bum, bom of a knightly family, Fellow of Pembroke-hall, 

and proctor. 
1457 John Argentine, of an ancient and knightly family, was elected from Eton 

to King's. 
1504 Robert Fairfax, of an ancient family in Yorkshire, took the degree of 

Mus. Doc. 
1496 Christopher Baynbrigg, of a good family at Hilton, near Appleby, 

educated at and Trovost of Queen's, Oxford, incorporated of Camondge. 
1517 Sir Wm. Fyndera, knight, died, and was a benefactor to Clare Hall, in 

which it is supposed he had been educated. 
1481 Robert Rede, of an ancient Northumbrian family, was sometime of 

Buckingham College, and the Fellow of King's-hall (?), and was autumn 

reader at Lincoln's Inn in 1481. 
ab. 1460 Marmaduke Constable, son of Sir Robert Constable, knight, believed to 

have been educated at Cambric^e. 
„ So, Edward Stafford, heir of Henry Stafford, Duke of Buckingham, is 

also believed to have been educated at Cambridge, because his father was 

a munificent patron of the University, constantly maintaining, or assisting 

to maintain, scholars therein. 
„ So, Thomas Howard, son of Sir John Howard, knight, and afterwards 

Duke of Norfolk, who defeated the Scots at Flodden, is believed, &c. 
1484 John Skelton, the poet, probably of an ancient Cumberland family. 
1520 ? Henry Howard, son of Lord Thomas Howard, ultimately Duke of Norfolk. 

Nothing is known as to the place of his education. If it were either of 

the English Universities, the presumption is ia favour of Cambridge. 

The only tradesman's son mentioned is, 

1504 Sir Richard Empson, son of Peter Empson, a sieve-maker, High-Steward. 



FOREWORDS. XXXIU 

1602 Humphrey Fitzwilliam, of Pembroke Hall, Vice-Chancellor, 
appears to have been the son of Sir Eichard Fitzwilliam 
of Ecclesfield, and Elizabeth his wife. 
ab. 1468 Eichard Eedman, son of Sir Eichard Eedman and Eliza- 
beth [Aldburgh] his wife ; made Bp. of St Asaph. 

1492 Thomas Savage, son of Sir John Savage, knight, Bp. of 
Eochester. Was LL.D. ? educated at Cambridge. 

1485 James Stanley, younger son of Thomas Earl of Derby, 
educated at both universities, graduated at Cambridge, and 
became prebendary of Holywell in 1485, Bp. of Ely in 
1506. 
f 1497 William Coningsby, son of Sir Humphrey Coningsby, 
elected from Eton to King's. 

1607 Thomas Elyot, son of Sir Eichard Elyot, made M. A. 
ab. 1520 George Bls^e, son of Sir Eobert Blagge. 

Queen Elizabeth's favourite. Lord Essex, was at Trinity College, 
Cambridge. See his letter of May 13, from there, in Ellis, series II. 
T. iii. p. 73 ; the furniture of his room, and his expenses, in the 
note p. 73-4 ; and his Tutor's letter asking for new clothes for * my 
Lord,* or else * he shall not onely be thrid bare, but ragged.' 

Archbp. Whitgift*, when B.D. at Pembroke Hall, Cambridge, 
A.D. 1563, ^'bestowed some of his time and abilities in the instruc- 
tion of ingenious youth, sent to the college for education, in good 
learning and Christian manners. And among such his pupils, were 
two noblemen's sons, viz. the Lord Herbert, son and heir to the Earl 
of Pembroke ; and John, son and heir to the Lord North." {Life^ 
by Strype, ed. 1822, voL i. p. 14.) 

While Whitgift was Master of Trinity, Stiype says he had bred 
up under him not only several Bishops, but also ^^the Earls of 
Worcester and Cumberland, the Lord Zouch, the Lord Dunboy of 
Ireland, Sir Nicolas and Sir Francis Bacon. To which I may add 
one more, namely, the son of Sir Nicolas White, Master of the Eolls 
in Ireland, who married a Devereux." (Lifey i 157, ed. 1822.) 

A search through the whole of the first volume of Wood's AthenoB 
OxoruerueSy comprising a period of nearly 100 years, has resulted 
in the following meagre Hst of men of noble or knightly birth who 
distinguished themselves. There are besides many men of "genteol 

' ^ Whitgift himself bom 1530, was educated at St Paul's school, then sent back 
to his father in the country, and sent up to Cambridge in 1648 or 1549. 

d 



XXXIV NOBLES AND GENTLEMEN AT OXFORD. 

parents,*' some of trader-ones, many friars, some Winchester men, 
but no Eton ones, educated at Oxford. 

1478 Edmund Dudley, son of John Dudley, Esq., 2nd son of 
John Lord Dudley, of Dudley Castle in Staffordshire, 
ab. 1483 John Colet, the eldest son of Sir Henry Colet, twice lord 
mayor of London . . was educated in grammaticals, partly 
in London or Westminster. 
„ Nicholas Vaux, son of Sir WilL Vaux of Harwedon in 
Northamptonshire (not the Poet, Lord Vaux). 
end of John Bourchier, Lord Bemers, eldest son of Sir John 
Edw. lY. Bourchier, knight, Lord Bemers of Hertfordshire . . was in- 
structed in several sorts of learning in the university in 
the latter end of K Edw. IV. ; in whose reign, and 
before, were the sons of divers of the English nobility 
educated in academical literature in Baliol ColL,' wherein, 
as 'tis probable, this our author was instructed also. 
1497 Thomas More, son of Sir John More, knight {The Sir 
Thomas More.) 
1 ab. 1510 George Bulleyn, son and heir of Sir Tho. Bullen, and 

sister of Anne BuUeyn. 
? „ Henry Parker, son of Sir William Parker, knight. 

1515 Christopher Seintgerman, son of Sir Henry Seintgerman, 
knight. 
? ab. 1520 Thomas Wyatt, son of Henry Wyatt of Alington Castle in 
Kent, knight and baronet, migrated from St John's, 
Cambridge.* 
1538 ' John Heron, a Kentish man bom, near of kin to Sir John 
Heron, knight. 
? ab. 1520 Edward Seymoure, son of Sir John Seymoure, or St 
Maure of Wolf-hall in Wilts, knight, was educated in 
tri vials, and partly in quadri vials for some time in this 
imiversity. He was Jane Seymour's brother, and after- 
wards Duke of Somerset, and was beheaded on Jan. 22, 
1662-3. 
1534 John Philpot, son of Sir Pet. Philpot, knight of the Batk 
Fellow of New Coll. 
ab. 15 — Henry Lord Stafford (author of the Mirror for Magis- 
trates)^ the only son of Edward, Duke of Bucks, 'received 

1 No proof of this is given. 

* Henry Howard, Earl of Surrey, son and heir of Thomas Duke of Norfolk, 
' was for a time student in Cardinal Coll. as the constant tradition has been among 
us.* p. 153, col. 1. 

3 Andrew Borde, who writes himself Andreas Perforatus^ was born, as it seems, 
at Pevensey, commonly called Pensey [now Perasey], in Sussex, and not unlikoly 
educated in Wykeham's school near to Winchester, brought up at Oxford (as he sailh 
in his Introduction to Knowledge^ cap. 35), p. 170, col. 2, and note. 



FOREWORDS. • XXXV 

his education in both the universities, especially in that of 
Cambridge, to which his father had been a benefactor.' 
1515 Reynold Pole (the Cardinal), a younger son of Sir Eich. 
Pole. 
? ab. 1630 Anthony Browne, son of Sir Weston Browne, of Abbes- 

roding and of Langenhoo in Essex, knight. 
ab. 1574 Patrick Plunket, baron of Dunsary in Ireland, son of Rob. 

Plunket, baron of the same place, 
ab. 1570 Philip Sidney (the poet), son of Sir Henry Sidney. 
1 John Smythe, son of Sir Clem. Smythe. 

(Peter Levens or Levins, our Manipvlvs or Rhyming- 
Dictionary man, became a student in the university, an, 
1552, was elected probationer-fellow of Mag. Coll. into 
a Yorkshire place, 18 Jan. 1557, being then bach, of 
arts, and on the 19th Jan. 1559 was admitted true and 
perpetual fellow. In 1560 he left his fellowship. Ath, 
Ox. p. 547, coL 2.) 
1 ab. 1570 Reynolde Scot, a younger son of Sir John Scot of Scots- 
hall, near to Smeeth in Kent. " 
1590 Hay ward Townshend, eldest son of Sir Henry Townshend, 
knight, 
ab. 1587 Francis Tresham (of Gunpowder Plot notoriety), son of Sir 
Thomas Tresham, knight. 

The number of friars and monks at the Universities before the 
Reformation, and especially at Oxford, must have been large. Tanner 
says, 

In our universities . . . were taught divinity and canon law 
(then, t. Hen. IIL, much in vogue), and the friers resorting thither 
in great numbers and applying themselves closely to their studies, 
outdid the monks in all fashionable knowledge. But the monks 
quickly perceived it, and went also to the universities and studied 
hard, that they might not be run down by the friers.* And as the 

^ See Mat. Paris, p. 665, though he speaks there chiefly of monks * beyond sea. 

* As appears from Wood's Fei^ti Oxon. 

The following names of Oxford men educated at monkish or friars' schools, or 
of their bodies, occur in the first volume of Wood's Athena Oxon.^ ed. Bliss : 

p. 6, col. 2. William Beeth, educated among the Dominicans or Black Friers 

from his youth, and afterwards their provincial master or chief 

governor. 
p. 7> col. 2. Bichard Bardney, a Benedictine of Lincolnshire, 
p. 1 1, col. 2. John Sowle, a Carme of London. 
p. 14, ooL L William Galeon, an Austin friar of Lynn Regis, 
p. 18, coL 2. Henry Bradshaw, one of the Benedictine monks of St Werberg's, 

Chester. 
p. 19, col. 1. John Harley, of the order of the Preaching or Dominican, commonly 

called Black, Friars. 

d2 



XXXVl FAVOURITISM OP THE RICH IN THE UNIVERSITIES, 

friers got houses in the universities, the monks also got colleges 
founded and endowed there * for the education of their novices, where 
they were for some years instructed in grammar, philosophy, and school 
divinity, and then returning home, improved their knowledge by 
their private studies, to the service of God and the credit of their 
respective societies. So that a little before the Keformation, the 
greatest part of the proceeders in divinity at Oxford were monks and 
Eegular canons. 

By Harrison's time, a.d. 1577 ^ rich men*s sons had not only 

pressed into the Universities, but were scrooging poor men's sons out 

of the endowments meant only for the poor, learning the lessons that 

Mr Whiston so well shows our Cathedral dignitaries have carried out 

' It was castomary then at Oxford for the Religious to haye schools that hore 
the name of their respective orders ; as the Augostine, Benedictine, Carmelite, and 
Franciscan schools ; and there were schools also appropriated to the henefit of par- 
ticular Religious houses, as the Dorchester and Eynsham schools, &c. The monks 
of Gloucester had Gloucester convent, and the novices of Pershore an apartment in 
the same house. 80 likewise the young monks of Canterhury, Westminster, Durham, 
St Alhans, &c. Kennet's Paroch. Antiq., p. 214. So also Leland saith, Itin. vol vL 
p. 28, that at Stamford the names of Peterborough' Hall, SempUngham, and Yauldcy 
yet remain, as places whither the Religious of those houses sent their scholars to 
study. Tanner, Notitia Monastica, Preface, p. xxvi. note w, 

2 The abuse was of far earlier date than this. Compare Mr HaUiwel]*s quotation 
in his ^Merton Statutes,' from his edition of Uhe Poems of John Awdelay, the 
blind poet of Haghmon Monastery in the 14th century, ' 

Now ^if a pore mon set bys son to Oxford to scole, 

Bothe the fader and the moder hyndryd they schal be ; 
And 3if ther falle a bonefyse, hit schal l)e ^if a fole, 
To a clerke of a kechyn, ore into the chauncer^ . . . 
Clerkys that han cunyng, 
. . thai mai get no vannsyng 
Witnout symony. 



p. 54, col. 2. Thomas Spenser, a Carthusian at Henton in Somersetshire ; * whence 
for a time he receded to Oxford (as several of his order did) to im- 
prove himself, or to pass a course, in theology.' 

p. 94, col. 2. John Eynton, a Minorite or Grey-friar. 

p. 101, col. 1. John Rycks, „ „ 

p. 107, col. 1. John Forest, a Franciscan of Greenwich. 

p. 189, col. 1. John Griffen, a Cistercian. 

p. 278, ool. 2. Cardinal Pole, educated among the Carthusians, and CarmeUtes or 
* White-fryers.' 

p. 363, col. 2. William Barlowe, an Austin of St Osith in Essex. 

p. 630, col. 2. Henry Walpoole and Richard Walpoole, Jesuits. 

The 5 th Lonl Percy, he of the Houaehold Book^ in the year 1520 founded an annual 

stipend of 10 marcs for 3 years, for a Pedagogtu aire Magistery docens ac legens 

Orammatieam et Fhilotophiam eanonicis et fratribua of the monastery of Alnwick 

(Warton, ii. 492). 



FOREWORDS. XXXVii 

with the stipends of their choristers, hoys and men. " Les gros 
poissons mangent les mentis. Pro. Poore men are (easily) supplanted 
hy the rich, the weake hy the strong, the meane hy the mighty." ' 
(Cotgiave, XL manger.) The law of *' natural selection " prevails. 
Who shall say nay in a Christian land professing the principles of 
the great " Inventor of Philanthropy " 1 Whitgift for one, see his 
life of Strype, Bk. I. chap. xiiL p. 148-50, ed. 1822. In 1689 an 
act 31 Eliz. c. 6, was passed to endeavour to prevent the abuse, but, 
like modem Election-bribery Acts with their abuse, did not do it 

" at this present^ of one sort & other, there are about three thou- 
sand students nourished in them both (as by a late serveie it mani- 
festlie appeared). They [the Colleges at our Universities] were 
created by their foundeifs at the first, onelie for pore men's sons, 
whose parents were not able to bring them up imto learning : but 
now they have the least benefit of them, by reason the rich do so 
incToch upon them* And so farre hath this inconvenence spread it- 
self, that it is in my time an hard matter for a pore man's child to 
come by a fellowship (though he be neuer so good a scholer & 
worthie of that roome.) Such packing also is used at elections, that 
not he which best deserveth, but he that hath most friends, though 
he be the worst scholer, is alwaies surest to speed ; which will tume 
in the end to the overthrow of learning. That some gentlemen also, 
whose friends have been in times past benefactors to certeine of 
those houses, doe intrude into the disposition of their estates, with- 
out all respect of order or statutes devised by the founders, onelie 
thereby to place whome they think good (and not without some 
hope of gaine) the case is too too evident, and their attempt would 
soone take place, if their superiors did not provide to bridle their 
indevora In some grammar schooles likewise, which send scholers 
to these universities, it is lamentable to see what briberie is 
used ; for yer the scholer can be preferred, such briberye is made^ 
tbat pore men's children are commonly shut out, and the richer sort 
received (who in times past thought it dishonour to live as it were 
upon almes) and yet being placed, most of them studie little other 
than histories, tables, dice & trifles, as men that make not the living 
by their studie the end of their purposes ; which is a lamentable bear- 
ing. Besides this, being for the most part either gentlemen, or rich 
men's sonnes, they oft bring the universities into much slander.^ For 

^ Compare Chaucer : * wberfore, as seith Senck, ther is nothing more covenable 
to a man of heigh estate than debonairt^ and pit^ ; and therfore thise flics than 
men depen bees, whan thay make here king, they chesen oon that hath no pricke 
whjrwith he may stynge.' — Persofus Tale, Poet. Works, ed. Morris, iii. 301. 

' Ascham complains of the harm that rich men's sons did in his time at Cam- 
bridge. Writing to Archbp. Cranroer in 1645, he complains of two gravitaima tifi- 



XXXVlil BAD EXAMPLE OP RICH MEN AT COLLEGE. 

standing upon their reputation and libertie, they ruffle and roist it 
out, exceeding in apparell, and hanting riotous companie (which 
draweth them from their bookes into an other trade). And for 
excuse, when they are charged with breach of all good order, thinke 
it sufficient to saie, that they be gentlemen, which grieveth manie 
not a little. But to proceed with the rest. 

"Everie one of these colleges haue in like manner their pro- 
fessors or readers of the tongs and severall sciences, as they call 
them^ which daUie trade up the youth there abiding privatlie in their 
halles, to the end they may be able afterwards (when their tume 
commeth about, which is after twelve termes) to show themselves 
abroad, by going from thence into the common schooles and publike 
disputations (as it were In aream) there to trie their skilles, and 
declare how they have profited since their coming thither. 

" Moreover in the publike schooles of both the universities, there 
are found at the prince's charge (and that -verie largelie) live pro- 
fessors & readers, that is to saie, of divinitie, of the civill law, 
physicke, the Hebrew and the Greek tongues. And for the other 
lectures, as of philosophie, logike, rhetorike and the quadriuials, 
although the latter (I mean, arithmetike, musike, geometrie and 
astronomie, and with thefti all skill in the perspectives are now 
smJallie regarded in either of them) the universities themselves do 
allowe competent stipends to such as re^de the same, whereby they 
are sufficiently provided for, touching the maintenance of their 
estates, and no less encouraged to be dlHgent in their functions." 

On the introduction of the study of Greek into the Universities, 
Dr S. Knight says in his Life of Colet : 

. " As for Oxford^ its own History and Antiquities sufficiently con- 
fess, that nothing was known there but Latin, and that in the most 

pedimenta to their conrse of study : (1.) that so few old men will stop up to encourage 
study by their example ; (2.) *' quod illi fere omnes qui hue Cantabrigiam confluunt, 
pueri sunt, divitumque filii, et hi etiam qui nunquam inducunt animum suum, ut 
abundant! aliqua perfectaque eruditione perpoliautur,. sed ut ad alia reipublicss 
munera obeunda Icri aliqua et inchoata cognitione paratiores efficiantur. Et hio 
singularis qusedam injuria bifariam academise intentata est ; vel quia hoc modo omnis 
expletse absolutseque doctrina) spes longe ante messem, in ipsa quasi herbescenti 
Tiriditate, prsBciditur; vel quia omnis pauperum inopumque expectatio, quorum 
SDtates omnes in literarum studio conteruntur, ab his ifucis eorum sedes occupantibus, 
exclusa illusaque prseripitur. Ingenium, enim, doctrina, inopia judicium, nil quic- 
quam domi valent, ubi gratia, favor, magnatum literse, et alise persimiles extraordi- 
narise illegitimisque rationes vim foris adferunt Hinc quoque illud aocedit 
incommodum, quod quidam prudentes viri nimis a^gre ferunt partem aliquam regie 
pccunisB in collegiorum socios inpartiri ; quasi illi non maxime indigeant, aut quasi 
ulla spes perfects eruditionis in uUis aliis residere potest, quam in his, qui in per- 
petuo literarum studio perpetuum vito) sute tabernaculum collocarunt. £d. Giles, i. 
p. 69-70. Sec also p. 121 -2. 



FOllEWORDS. XXXIX 

depraved Style of the School^}ien. Cmmdius VitelliuSj an Italian^ 
was the first who taught Greek in that University ^ ; and from him 
the famous Grocyne learned the first Elements thereof. 

" In Cambridgey Erasmus was the first who taught the Greek 
Grammar. And so very low was the State of Learning in that 
University, that (as he teUs a Friend) about the Year 1485, the 
Beginning of Heii. VII. Eeign, there was nothing taught in that 
publick Seminary besides Alexarider^s Parva LogicaHa^ (as they called 
them) the old Axioms of Aristotle^ and the Questions of John Scotus, 
till in Process of time good Letters were brought in, and some Know- 
ledge of the MatJiematicks ; as also Aristotle in a new Dress, and some 
SkUl in the Greek Tongue ; and, by Degrees, a Multitude of Authors^ 
whose Names before had not been heard of.* 

" It is certain that even Erasmus himself did little understand 
Greeky when he came first into Eriglandy in 1497 (13 Hen. VII.), 
and that our Countryman Linacer taught it him, being just returned 
from Italy with great Skill in that Language : Which Linacer and 
WiUiam Grocyne were the two only Tutors that were able to teach 
it" SamL Knight, Life of Dr John Colet, pp. 17, 18. 

The age at which boys went up to the University seems to have 

varied greatly. When Oxford students were forbidden to play 

marbles they could not have been very old. But in " The Mirror of 

the Periods of Man's Life" (lab. 1430 A.D.), in the Society's Hymns 

to the Virgin and Christ of this year, we find the going-up age put 

at twenty. 

Quod resoun, in age of .xx. ^eer. 
Goo to oxenford, or leme lawe*. 

This is confirmed by young Paston's being at Eton at nineteen (see 

below, p. Ivi). In 1612, Brinsley {Grammar Schoole^ p. 307) puts 

the age at fifteen, and says, 

" such onely should be sent to the Vniuersities, who proue most 
ingenuous and towardly, and who, iu a loue of learning, will begin to 

^ AnUa enim Cornelias Yitelliiu, homo Italas Comeli, quod est maritimum 
Hetnmie Oppidunk, natus nobUi Proaapiay vir optimus gratiosusqtte, omnium primus 
Oxonii bonas liieraa docuerat. [Pol. Vcrg. lib, zxvi.] 

^ AnU annoa ferms triginta^ nihil tradebatur in aehola Cantab rigiensi, prater 
Alexandri Parva Logicalia, ut voeant, ^ retera ilia AristoteUs dictata, Seotieasgue 
Qiuutionea, Frogresm temporis aceesaerunt bona literm ; aecessil Mathceeoa Chgnitio; 
aeeeasii novue^ aut eerie novatusy Aristoteles ; aeeesnt GrsBcamm literarum peritia ; 
aeeeeaentnt Auioret tarn niuUi^ quorum olim ne nomina quidem tefiebantur^ &c. 
[Eruioi Epiet. Henrico Boyillo, Dat. Roffse Cal. Sept. 1516.] 

> Sir John Fortescue's description of the study of law at Westminster and in the 
IiiDS of Chancery is in chapters 48-9 of his De laudibua legum Anglia. 



Xl FOREIGN UNIVERSITY EDUCATION. 

take paines of themselues, hauing attained in some sort the former 
parts of learning ; being good Grammarians at least, able to vnder- 
stand, write and speake Latine in good sort. 

" Such as haue good discretion how to goueme themselnes there, 
and to moderate their expenses ; which is seldome times before 15 
yeeres of age ; which is also the youngest age admitted by the statutes 
of the Vniuersity, as I take it." 

4. Foreign University Education, That some of our nobles sent 
their sons to be educated in the French universities (whence they 
sometimes imported foreign vices into England ') is witnessed by some 
verses in a Latin Poem " in MS. Digby, No. 4 (Bodleian Library) of 
the end of the 13th or beginning of the 14th century," printed by 
Mr Thomas Wright in his Anecdota Literaria, p. 38. 

Filii nobilium, dum simt jimiores, 
Mittuntur in Franciam fieri doctores ; 
Quos prece vel pretio domant corruptores, 
Sic prsetaxfli)os referunt artaxata mores. 

An English nation or set of students of the Faculty of Arts at 
Paris existed in 1169; after 1430 the name was changed to the 
German nation. Besides the students from the French provinces 
subject to the English, as Poictou, Guienne, &c., it included the 
English, Scottish, Lish, Poles, Germans, &c. — Encyc. Brit. John of 
Salisbury (bom 1110) says that he was twelve years studying at 
Paris on his own account Thomas a Becket, as a young man, studied 
at Paris. Giraldus Cambrensis (bom 1147) went to Paris for edu- 
cation ; so did Alexander Neckham (died 1227). Henry says, 

" The English, in particular, were so numerous, that they occupied 
several schools or colleges ; and made so distinguished a figure by 
their genius and learning, as well as by their generous manner of 
living, that they attracted the notice of all strangers. This appears 
from the following vei'ses, describing the behaviour of a stranger on 

' Mores habent barbanu, Latinus et GrsBcus ; 
Si sacerdos, ut plebs eet, c»cum dncit csecus : 
Se mares effeminant, et equa fit equiu, 
Expectes ab homine usque ad pecus. 

Et quia non metuunt anima) discrimen, 
Principes in habitum Terterunt hoc crimen, 
Varium viro turpiter jungit noTus hymen, 
Ezagitata procul non intrat foemina limen. 



FOREWORDS. xU 

his firet arrival in Paris, composed by Negel Wircker, an English 
student there, a.d. 1170 : — 

The stranger dress'd, the city first surveys, 

A church he enters, to his God he prays. 

Next to the schools he hastens, each he views. 

With care examines, anxious which to chuse. 

The English most attract his prying eyes. 

Their manners, words, and looks, pronounce them wise. 

Theirs is the open hand, the bounteous mind ; 

Theirs solid sense, with sparkling wit combined. 

Their graver studies jovial banquets crown, 

Their rankling cares in flowing bowls they drown.* 

MontpeUer was another University whither Englishmen resorted, 
and is to be remembered by us if only for the memory of Andrew 
!Borde, M.D., some bits of whose quaintness are in the notes to 
Hussell in the present volume. 

Padua is to be noted for Pace's sake. He is supposed to have 
been bom in 1482. 

Later, the custom of sending young noblemen and gentlemen to 
Italy — ^to travel, not to take a degree — was introduced, and Ascham*s 
condemnation of it, when no tutor accompanied the youths, is too 
well known to need quoting. The Italians' saying, Inglese Italianaio 
e un diabolo ineamatOf sums it up.' 

5. Monastic and Cathedral Schools, Herbert Losing, Bp. of 
Thetford, afterwards Norwich, between 1091 and 1119, in his 37th 
Letter restores his schools at Thetford to Dean Bund, and directs 
that no other schools be opened there. 

Tanner {Not Mon, p. xx. ed. Nasmith), when mentioning " the 
use and advantage of these Religious houses " — imder which term 

^ Pizas et ablutus tandem progressos in nrbem, 
Intrat in ecclesiam, vota precesque facit 
Inde scholas adiens, secum deliberat, utnim 
Expediat potiiu ilia Tel ista schola. 
£t quia subtiles sensu oonsiderat Angloe, 
Ploribns ex causis se sociayit iis. 
Moribns egregii, verbo ynltuque Tenusti, 
Ingenio poUent, consilioane vigent. 
D<Mia pluunt popuHs, et aetestantur avaros, 
Fercufa mnltiphcant, et sine lege bibnnt 
A. Wood, Antiq. Ozan., p. 55, in Henry's Hist, of Eng., vol. iii. p. 440-1. 
> That Colet used hislrayels abroad, a.d. 1493-7, for a different purpose, see his 
Life by Dr Knight, pp. 23-4. 



xlii MONASTIC AND CATHEDRAL SCHOOLS. 

** are comprehended, cathedral and collegiate churches, abbies, priories, 
colleges, hospitals, preceptories (Knights Templars' houses), and 
frieries" — says, 

" Secondly, They were schools of learning & education ; for every 
convent had one person or more appointed for this purpose ; and all 
the neighbours that desired it, might have their children taught 
grammar and church musick without any expence to theuL* 

In the nunneries also young women were taught to work, and to 
read English, and sometimes Latin also. So that not only the lower 
rank of people, who could not pay for their learning, but most of the 
noblemen and gentlemen's daughters were educated in those placea "* 

^ Fuller, book vi. p. 297. Collier, toI. ii. p. 165. Stillii)g:fleet'B Orig. Britan. p. 
206. Bishop Lloyd of Chorch GoYemment, p. 160. This was provided for as early 
as A.D. 747, by the seventh canon of conncil of Clovesho, as Wilkins's Councils, 
vol. i. p. 95. See also the notes upon that canon, in Johnson's Collection of 
canons, &c. In Tavistock abbey there was a Saxon school, as Willis, i. 171. Tanner. 
(Charlemagne in his Capitularies ordained that each Monastery should maintain 
a School, where should be taught ' la grammaire, le calcule, et la musique.' See 
Bemogeof s Histoire de la Littirature Franqaiae^ p. 44, ed. Hachette. R. Whiston.) 
Henry says ** these teachers of the cathedral schools were called The seholastiea of the 
diocess ; and all the youth in it who were designed for the church, were intitled to 
the benefit of their instructions.* Thus, for example, William de Monte, who had 
been a professor at Pans, and taught theology with so much reputation in the 
reigpi of Henry II., at Lincoln, was the scholastic of that cathedral. By the 
eighteenth canon of the third general council of Lateran, a.d. 1179, it was decreed, 
That such scholastics should be settled in all cathedrals, with sufficient revenues for 
their support ; and that they should have authority to superintend all the school- 
masters of the diocess, and grant them licences, without which none should presume 
to teach. The laborious authors of the literary history of France have collected 
a very distinct account of the scholastics who presided in the principal cathedral- 
schools of that kingdom in the twelfth century, among whom we meet with many 

of the most illustrious names for learning of that age The sciences that 

were taught in these cathedral schools were such as were most necessary to qualify 
their pupils for performing the duties of the sacerdotal office, as Grammar, Rhetoric, 
Logic, Theology, and Church-Music." — Ibid. p. 442. 

' Fuller and Collier, as before ; Bishop Burnet (Reform, vol. i. p. . .) saith so of 
Godstow. Archbiihop Greenfield ordered that young gentlewomen who came to 
the nunneries cither for piety or breeding, should wear white veils, to distinguish 
them from the professed, who wore black ones, 11 Eal. Jul. anno pontif. 6. M. 
Hutton. ex registr. ejus, p. 207. In the accounts of the cellaress of Carhow, near 
Norwich, there is an account of what was received " pro prehendationibus," or the 
board of young ladies and their servants for education ** rec. de domina Margeria 
Wederly prehendinat, ibidem xi. septimanas xiii a. iyd. , . pro mensa unius famulsB 
dictfiB MargerisD per iii. septimanas viii d. per sept." &c. Tanner. 



* Du Cange, Gloss, voc. SchoUuticm. 



FOREWORDS. xliii 

Aa Lydgate (bom at Ljdgate in Suffolk, six or seven miles from 
Xewmorket) was ordained subdeacon in the Benedictine monastery 
of Buiy St Edmunds in 1389*, he was probably sent as a boy to a 
monastic schooL At any rate, as he sketches his early escapades — 
apple-stealing, playing truant, &c., — for us in his Testament^ I shall 
quote the youth's bit of the poem here : — 

Harleian MS. 2255, foL 60. 

J/uiyng the tyme / of this sesouTj ver in my boyhood, 

I meene the sesoun / of my yeerys greene 

Gynnyng firo childhood / strecchithe^ vp so fer 

to pe yeerys / accountyd ful Fifteene up to is, 

bexperience / as it was weel scene 

The gerisshe sesou/i / straunge of condiciouTis 

Dispoosyd to many vnbridlyd passiouns 

[foLeobO % Voyd of resouw / yove to wilfiilnesse 

Froward to vertu / of thrift gaf ^ litil heede ' 

loth to leme / lovid ne besynesse i loved no work 

Sauf pley or merthe / straunge to spelle or reede ^* p^^' 
Folwyng al appetites / longyng to childheede 
lihtly toumyng wylde / and seelde sad 
Weepyng for nouht / and anoon afftir glad 

T For litil wroth / to stryve with my felawe 
As my passiouws / did my bridil le^de 
Of the yeerde somtyme / I Stood in awe y«* i '^a* *fr»id 

to be scooryd* / that was al my dreede ^eroi "** ^ 

loth toward scole / lost my tyme in deede 
Ilk a yong colt / that ran with-owte brydil 
Made my freendys / ther good to spend in ydil / 

% I hadde in custom / to come to scole late i came to scbooi 

Nat for to leme / but for a contenaunce ^®» 
with my felawys / reedy to debate 

to langle and tape / was set al my plesaunce talked, 
wherof rebukyd / this was my chevisaunce 

to forge a lesyng / and therupon to muse iied to get off 

whan I trespasyd / my silven to excuse ^*^®' 

[foL 61 J ^ To my bettre / did no reverence and mocked my 

Of my sovereyns / gaf no fors at al ""'*'"• 

1 Morley'g Sitglish Writers, vol. ii. Pt. I. p. 421. 

* Edited bj Mr HaUiwell in his * Selection from the Minor Poems of Dan John 
Lyd^te.' Percy Society, 1840, quoted by Prof. Morley. 

» streoched. (These collations are from Harl. 218, foL 66, back.) 

* toke. * skonred. 



xliv 



LYDGATE*S TRICKS AT SCHOOL. 



I fliole applat and 
grapM, 



played tricln and 
mocked people. 



liked counting 
cherry-stones 
better than 
choroh. 

Latetoriee, I 

was; 

dirty at dinner, 



wex obstynat / by inobedience 
Ean in to garydns / applys ther I stal 
To gadre frutys / sparyd hegg* nor wal 
to plukke grapys / in othir mennys vynes 
Was moor reedy / than for to seyn* matynes 

Tf My lust was al / to scome folk and iape 
Shrewde tomys / evir among to vse 
to SkofiFe and mowe* / lyk a wantoun Ape 
whan I did evil / othre I did* accuse 
My witty s five / in wast I did abuse* 
Rediere chirstoonys / for to® telle 
Than gon to chirche / or heere the sacry^ belle 

^ Loth to lyse / lotlier to bedde at eve 
with vnwassh handys® / reedy to dyneer 
My pater nostev / my Crede / or my beleeve 
Cast at the* Cok / loo this was my maneer 
Wavid with eche wynd / as doth a reed speer 
Snybbyd*® of my frendys / such techchys forta- 

mende" 
Made deff ere / lyst nat / to them attende 

% A child resemblyng / which was nat lyk to thryve 
Fro ward to god / reklees*^ in his servise 
loth to correcciouw / slouhe my sylf to shryve 
Al good thewys / reedy to despise 
Cheef bellewedir / of fejmed*' trwaundise 
this is to meene / my silf I cowde feyne 
Syk lyk a trwaunt / felte*^ no maneer peyne 

always unsteady, ^ My poort my pas / my foot alwey vnstable 

my look my eyen / vnswre and vagabounde 
In al my werkys / sodeynly chaungable 
To al good thewys / contrary I was founde 
Now ovir sad / now moomyng / now iocounde 
Wilful rekles / mad** stertyng as an hare 
To folwe my lust / for no man wold I spare. 

At these monastic schools, I suppose, were educated mainly 
the boys whom the monks hoped would become monks, cleric or 
secular ; mostly the poor, the Plowman's brother who was to be the 
Parson, not often the ploughman himself. Once, though, made a 
scholar and monk there, and sent by the Monastery to the University, 
the workman's, if not the ploughman's, son, might rule nobles and 



deaf to the snnb- 
bings of my 
friends. 



[fol. 61 b.] 

reckless in God's 
sorvice. 



chief shammer of 
illness when I was 
well. 



iU-condacted, 

sparing none for 
my pleasure. 



■ nedir hegge. 
^ alle Tse. 
•atte. 
^ froward. 



•sey. 
* clieristones to. 
10 Snybbyng. 



• mowen. 
^ sacryng. 



and felt. 



^ koude. 
• hondes. 
" tamende. ^^ rekkes. 

** nindc. 



FOREWORDS. 



XxV 



Now every 
cobbler's son and 
beggar's brat 
tame writer, then 
BUhop, 



and lords' sons 
crouch to him, 

a cobbler's son t 



sit bj kings, nay, heard tliem to tbeir face. Thomas a Becket, him- 
self the son of poor parents, was sent to be brought up in the "religious 
house of the Canons of Merton." 

In 1392 the writer of Piers Plowman's Crede sketches the then 
state of things thus : 

Now mot ich soutere hys sone * seten to schole. 

And ich a beggeies brol ' on the book lerne, 

And worth to a writere • and with a lorde dwelle, 

Other falslj to a frere • the fend for to serven ; 

80 of that beggaies brol • a [bychop^] shal worthen. 

Among the peres of the lond * prese to sytten. 

And lordes sones * lowly ■ to tho losels alowte, 

Enyghtes crouketh hem to ' and craccheth f ul lowe ; 

And his syre a soutere * y-suled in grees, 

His teeth with toylyng of lether ' tatered as a sawe. 

Here I might stop the quotation, but I go on, for justice has never 

yet been done ^ to this noble Crede and William's Vision as pictures 

of the life of their times, — chiefly &om the profound ignorance of us 

English of our own language; partly from the grace, the freshness, 

and the brilliance of Chaucer's easier and inimitable verse : — 

Alaas ! that lordes of the londe • leveth swiche wrecchen, 

And leveth swych lorels • for her lowe wordes. 

They shulden maken [bichopes *] * her owen bretheren 

childre. 
Other of som gentil blod * And so yt best semed, 
And fostre none faytoures ' ' ne swich false freres, 
To maken fat and fulle ' and her flesh combren. 
For her kynde were more * to y-clense diches 
Than ben to sopers y-set first • and served with sylver. 
A grete bolle-fii of benen • were beter in hys wombe, 
And with the bandes * of bakun • his baly for to fillen 
Than pertryches or plovers * or pecockes y-rosted, 
And comeren her stomakes ' with curiuse diynkes 
That maketh swyche harlotes * hordom usen, 
And with her wikkid word • wymmen bitrayeth. 
God wold her wonyynge • were in wildemesse. 
And fals freres forboden * the fayre ladis chaumbres ; 
For knewe lordes her craft • treuly I trowe 
They shulden nought haunten her house * so ho[m]ly * 

on nyghtes, 

^ Mr Skeat't readings. The abbot and abbots of Mr Wright's text spoil the 
alliteration. 

* Compare the previons passages under heading 1, p. yi. 

* May Mr Skeat hring the day when it will be ! * ? r.indes. Sk. 



Lords 

should make 

gentlemen 

Bishops, 

and set these 
seamps 

to clean ditches, 

and eat beans and 
baoon-rind 
instead of 
peaoocks. ; 

and having 
women. 



If Lords bat knew 
their tricks. 



Xlvi EDUCATION OF FIELD LABOURERS. 

tiiwy'dtimitiiww jfe bedden swich brothels • in so biode shetes, 
tSSar ^^^ sbeten her heved in the stre • to sharpen her wittes. 

There is one side of the picture, the workman's son turned monk, and 
clerk to a lord. Let ua turn to the other side, the ploughman's son 
who didn't turn monk, whose head was * shet ' in the straw, who 
delved and ditched, and dunged the earth, eat bread of corn and bran, 
worts fleshless (vegetables, but no meat), drank water, and went 
miserably {Crede, 1. 1565-71). What education did he get ? To whom 
could he be apprenticed? What was his chance in life? Let the 
Statute-Book answer : — 

A.D. 1388. 12« Rich. IL, Cap. v. 
Item, It is ordained & assented, That he or she which used to 
labour at the Plough and Cart, or other Labour or Service of Hus- 
bandry till they he of the Age of Twelve Years, that from thenceforth 
they shall abide at the same Labour , without being put to any Mystery 
or Handicraft ; and if any Covenant or Bond of Apprentie (so) be from 
henceforth made to the Contrary, the same shall be holden for none. 

A.D. 1405-6. 7® Henri IV., Cap. xvii. 

And Whereas in the Statutes made at Canterbury 

among other Articles it is contained That he or she that useth to 
labour at the Plough or Cart, or other Labour or Service of Husbandry, 
till he be of the age of Twelve Years, that from the same time forth 
he shall abide at the same Labour, without being put to any Mystery 
or Handicraft ; and if any Covenant or Bond be made from that time 
forth to the contrary, it shall be holden for none : Notwithstanding 
which Article, and the good Statutes afore made through all parts of 
the Realm, the Infants born within the Towns and Seignories of 
Upland, whose Fathers & Mothers have no Land nor Rent nor other 
Living, but only their Service or Mystery, be put by their said 
Fathers and Mothers and other their Friends to serve, and bound 
Apprentices, to divers Crafts within the Cities and Boroughs of the said 
Realn; soTnetime at the Age of Twelve Years, sometime within the said 
Age, and that for the Pride of Clothing and other evil Customs that 
Servants do use in the same ; so that there is so great Scarcity of 
Labourers and other Servants of Husbandry that the Gentleman and 
other People of the Realm be greatly impoverished for the Cause 
aforesaid : Our Sovereign Lord the King considering the said Mischief, 
and willing thereupon to provide Remedy, by the advice & assent of 
the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and at the request of the said 
Commons, hath ordained and stablished, That no Man nor Woman, 
of what Estate or Condition they be, shall put their Son or Daughter, 
of whatsoever Ago he or she be, to Serve as Apprentice to no Craft nor 
other Labour within any City or Borough in the Realm, except he 
have Land or Rent to the Value of Twenty Shillings by the Year at 



FOREWORDS. xlvli 

the least, but thej shall be put to other labours as their Estates doth 
require^ upon Pain of one Year's Imprisonment, and to make Fine and 
Eansom at the King's Will. And if any Covenant be made of any- 
such Infant, of what Estate that he be, to the contrary, it shall be 
holden for none. Provided Always, that every Man and Woman, of 
what Estate or Condition that he be, shall be free to set their Son or 
Daughter to take Learning at any manner School that pleaseth them 
within the Eeahn. 

A most gracious saving clause truly, for those children who were used 
to labour at the plough and cart till they were twelve years old.* Let 
us hope that some got the benefit of it ! 

These Acts I came across when hunting for the Statutes 
referred to by the Boke of Curtasye as fixing the hire of horses 
for carriage at fourpence a piece, and they caused me some sur- 
prise. They made me wonder less at the energy with which 
some people now are striving to erect " barriers against democracy" 
to prevent the return match for the old game coming off. — How- 
ever improving, and however justly retributive, future legislation 
for the rich by the poor in the spirit of past legislation for the poor 
by the rich might be, it could hardly be considered pleasant, and is 
surely worth putting up the true barrier against, one of education in 
each poor man's mind. (He who americanizes us thus far will be the 
greatest benefactor England has had for some ages.) — ^These Statutes 
also made me think how the old spirit still lingers in England, how a 
&iend of my own was curate in a Surrey village where the kind- 
hearted squire would allow none of the E's but Eeading to be taught 
in his school ; how another clergyman lately reported his Farmers' 
meeting on the school question: Reading and Writing might be 
taught, but Arithmetic not ; the boys would be getting to know too 

^ Later on, men's games were settled for them as well as their trades. In 
A.D. 1641, the 83 Hen. VIII., cap. 9, § xvi., says, 

** Be it also enacted by the authority aforesaid. That no manner of Artificer or 
Craftsman of any Handicraft or Occupation, Husbandman, Apprentice, Labourer, 
Servant at Husbandry, Journeyman or Servant of Artificer, Mariners, Fishermen, 
"Watermen or any Serving man, shall from the said feast of the Nativity of St John 
Baptist play at the Tables, Tennis, Dice, Cards, Bowls, Clash, Coy ting, Logating, 
or any other unlawful Grame out of Christmas, under the Pain of xx «. to be forfeit 
for every Time ; (2) and in Christmas to play at any of the said Games in their 
Master's Houses, or in their Master's Presence ; (3) and also that no manner of 
persons shall at any time play at any Bowl or Bowls in open places out of his 
Garden or Orchard, upon the Pain for every Time so offending to lorfeit vi *. viiii <i." 
(For Legating, &c., see Strutt.) 



xlviii NO bondsman's son to be an apprentice. 

mucli about wages, and that would be troublesome ; bow, lastly, our 
gangs of children working on our Eastern-counties farms, and our 
bird-keeping boys of the whole South, can almost match the children 
of the agricultural labourer of 1388. 

The early practice of the Freemasons, and other crafts, refusing to 
let any member take a bondsman's son as an apprentice, was founded 
on the reasonable apprehension that his lord would or might after- 
wards claim the lad, make him disclose the trade-secrets, and carry on 
his art for the lord's benefit The fourth of the * Fyftene artyculus 
or fyftene poyntus' of the Freemasons, printed by Mr Halliwell 
(p. 16), IB on this subject. 

Artictdus quartus (MS. Bibl. Reg. 17 A, Art. I., fol. 3, &c.) 

The fowrthe artycul thys moste be. 

That the mayster hym wel be-se 

That he no bondemon prentys make, 

Ny for no covetyse do hym take ; 

For the lord that he ys bond to, 

May fache the prentes whersever ho go. 

Jef yn the logge he were y-take, 

Muche desese hyt my^th ther make, 

And Buche case hyt my3th befalle 

That hyt my3th greve summe or alle ; 

For alle the masonus that ben there 

Wol stonde togedur hoi y-fere. 

Jef suche won yn that craft schulde dwelle. 

Of dyvers desesys ^q my3th teUe. 

For more 3ese thenne, and of honeste, 

Take a prentes of herre * degrS. 

By olde tyme, wryten y fynde 

That the prentes schulde be of gentyl kynde ; 

And so sumtyme grete lordys blod 

Toke thys gemetry that ys ful good. 

I should like to see the evidence of a lord's son having become a 
working mason, and dwelling seven years with his master ' hys craft 
to lume.* 

Cathedral Schools. About the pre-Beformation Schools I can 
find only the extract from Tanner given above, p. xliL On the post- 
Reformation Schools I refer readers to Mr Whiston's Cathedral 
Trusts, 1850. He says : 

* higher. 



FOREWORDS. xlix 

"The Cathedrals of England are of two kinds, those of the old 
and those of the new foundation : of the latter, Canterhuiy (the old 
archiepiscopal see) and Carlisle, Durham, Ely, Norwich, Rochester, 
and Worcester, old episcopal sees, were a.d. 1541-2 refounded, or 
rather reformed, hy Henry VIII. . . Besides these, he created five 
other cathedral churches or colleges, in connexion with the five new 
episcopal sees of Bristol, Chester, Gloucester, Oxford, and Peter- 
borough. He further created the see of Westminster, which was . . 
subsequently (a.d. 1560) converted to a deanery collegiate by Queen 
Elizabeth. . . (p. 6). The preamble of the Act 31 Henry VIII. c. 9, 
for founding the new cathedrals, preserved in Henry's own hand- 
writing, recites that they were established *To the intente that Gods 
worde myght the better be sett forthe, cyldren h'oght up in lemynge^ 
clerces nuryshyd in the universities^ olde servantes decayed, to have 
lyfing, aUmes housys for pour folke to be sustayned in, Reders of 
(frece, ebrew, and latyne to have good stypende, dayly almes to be 
mynistrate, mending of hyght wayes, and exhybision for mynisters of 
the chyrche.' " 

" A general idea of the scope and nature of the cathedral estab- 
lishments, as originally planned and settled by Henry VIII., may 
be formed from the first chapter of the old statutes of Canterbury, 
which is almost identical with the corresponding chapter of the 
statutes of all the other cathedrals of the new foundation. It is as 
follows : 

" On ' the entire number of those who have their sustentation (qui 
sustentantur) in the cathedral and metropolitical church of Canter- 
bury : 

" First of all we ordain and direct that there be for ever in our 
aforesaid church, one dean, twelve canons, six preachers, twelve 
minor canons, one deacon, one subdeacon, twelve lay-clerks, one 
master of the choristers^ ten choristers^ two teachers of the hoys in 
grammar^ one of whom is to he the head master, the other , second 
master^ fifty hoys to he instructed in grammar,''^ twelve poor men to 
be maintained at the costs and charges of the said church, two 
vergers, two subsacrists (i.e., sextons), four servants in the church 
to ring the bells, and arrange all the rest, two porters, who shall 
also be barber-tonsors, one caterer,' one butler, and one under butler, 
one cook, and one under-cook, who, indeed, in the number pre- 
scribed, are to serve in our church every one of them in his own 
order, according to our statutes and ordinances.*' 

^ Translated from the Latin copy in the British Museum, MS. Harl. 1197, art, 

15, folio 319 b. 

* Daodecim pauperes de snmptibos dictee Ecclesisd alendi, 

' Dao unu9 PincemoB, et unus subpineernoj duo anas cociqnus, et anus sub* 

eoqans. Sic in MS. 

e 



lii POOR men's sons have heads as well as nioH ones'. 

the gifts of the Holy Ghost bestowed upon them as well as upon 
others, is as much to saj, as that Almighty God should not be at 
liberty to bestow his great gifts of grace upon any person, nor no- 
where else but as we and other men shall appoint them to be em- 
ployed, according to our fancy, and not according to his most goodly 
will and pleasure, who giveth his gifts both of learning, and other 
I perfections in all sciences, unto all kinds and states of people in- 

diiferently. Even so doth he many times withdraw from them and 
} their posterity again those beneficial gifts, if they be not thankful K 

[ we shoidd shut up into a strait comer the bountiful grace of the Holy 

I Ghost, and thereupon attempt to build our fancies, we should make 

' as perfect a work thereof as those that took upon them to build the 

Tower of Babel ; for God would so provide that the offspring of our 
first-bom children should peradventure become most unapt to learn, 
and very dolts, as I myself have seen no small number of them very 
I dull and without all manner of capacity. And to say the truth, I 

; take it, that none of us all here, being gentlemen bom (as I think), 

f but had our beginning that way from a low and base parentage 3 and 

^ through the benefit of learning, and other civil knowledge, for the 

I most part all gentlemen ascend to their estate.' Then it was again 

I answered, that the most part of the nobility came up by feats of arms 

I and martial acts. * As though,' said the Ajchbishop, * that the noble 

captain was always unfurnished of good leaming and knowledge to 
I persuade and dissuade his army rhetorically ; who rather tliat way is 

[ brought unto authority than else his manly looks. To conclude ; the 

poor man's son by pains-taking will for the most part be learned 
when the gentleman's son vnU. not take the pains to get it. And we 
are taught by the Scriptures that Almighty God raiseth up from the 
dunghill, and setteth him in high authority. And whensoever it 
pleaseth him, of his divine providence, he deposeth princes unto a 
right humble and poor estate. Wherefore, if the gentleman's son be 
apt to leaming, let him be admitted ; if not apt, let the poor man's 
child that is apt enter his room.* With words to the like effect." 

R. Whiston, Cathedral Tt^vsts^ p. 12 — 14. 

The scandalous way in which the choristers and poor boys were 
done out of their proportion of the endowments by the Cathedral 
clergy, is to be seen in Mr Whiston's little book. 



6. Endowed Orammar Schools, These were mainly founded for 
citizens' and townsmen's children. Winchester (founded 1373) was 
probably the only one that did anything before 1450 for the educa- 
tion of our gentry. Eton was not founded till 1 440. The following 
list of endowed schools founded before 1545, compiled for me by 



FOREWORDS. 



liii 



Mr Brock from Carlisle's Concise Description, shows the dates of all 

known to him. 

1487 Stockport. Gr. Sch. 

1487 Chipping Campden. Fr. Gr. 

Sch. 
1491 Sudbury. Fr. Gr. Sch. 
bef. 1495 Lancaster. Fr. Gr. Sch. 
1497 Wimbome Minster. Fr. Gr. 

Sch. 
time of Hen. VII., 1485-1509 

King*8 Lynn. Gr. Sch. 
1502-52 Macclesfield. Fr. Gr. Sch. 
1503 Bridgenorth. Fr. Sch. 

1506 Brough or Burgh under Stain- 
more. Fr. Sch. 

1507 Enfield. Gr. Sch. 
1507 Famworth, in Widnes, near 

Prescot. Fr. Gr. Sch. 
ab. 1508 Cirencester. Fr. Gr. Sch. 
1509 Guildford. Royal Gr. Sch. 
t. Hen. VIII. 1509-47 Peter- 

borough. Gr. Sch. 
t. Hen. VI IL 1509-47 Basingstoke. 

Gr Sch. 
t. Hen. VIII. 1509-47 Plymouth. 

Gr. Sch. 
t. Hen. VIII. 1509-47 Warwick. 

College or Gr. Sch. 
t. Hen. VIII. 1509-47 Earl's Colne, 

near Halsted. Fr. Gr. Sch. 
t. Hen. VIIL 1509-47 Carlisle. Gr. 

Sch. 

1512 Southover and Lewes. Fr. 
Gr. Sch. 

1513 Nottingham. Fr. Sch. 
1515 Wolverhampton. Fr. Gr. 

Sch. 
1517 Aylesham. Fr. Gr. Sch. 
1512-18 London.^ St PauPs Sch. 



BEFORE 1450 A.D. 

beC 1162 Derby. Free School. 
1195 St AIban*8. Free Grammar 

SchooL 
1198 St Edmund's, Bury. Fr. Sch. 
1328 Thetford. Gr. Sch. 
? 1327 Northallerton. Gr. Sch. 
1332 Exeter. Gr. Sch. 
1343 Exeter. High School, 
bef. 1347 Melton Mowbray^ Schools. 
1373 Winchester College. 

1384 Hereford. Gr. Sch^ 

1385 Wotton-under-Edge. Fr. Gr. 
Sch. 

1395 or 1340 Penrith. Fr. Gr. Sch. 
1399-1413 (Hen. IV.) Oswestry. 

Fr. Gr. Sch. 
1418 Sevenoaks. Fr. Gr. Sch. 
1422 Higham Ferrers. Fr. 

Sch. 
1422-61 (Hen. VI.) Ewelme. 

Sch. 

1440 Eton College. 
1447 London. Mercers' School, but 

founded earlier. 

SCHOOLS FOXTNDBO 1450 — 1545 A.I). 

1461-83 (Edw. IV.) Chichester. 

The Prebendal School, 
bet 1477 Ipswich. > Gr. Sch* 
1484 Wain fleet. Fr. Gr. Sch. 
1485-1609 (Hen. VII.) or before. 

Kibroorth, near Market Har- 

borough. Fr. Gr. Sch. 
bef. 1486 Reading. Gr. Sch. 
1486 Kingston upon Hull. Fr. Gr. 

Sch. 



Gr. 



Gr. 



1 Farewell, in Oxford my college cardynall ! 
Farewell, in tpaewicK, my sehoU gramatieaU ! 
Tet oom farewell ! I say, I shall you never see ! 
Your Bomptious byldrng, what now aTayllethe me } 
Metrical Visions [Wolsey.J by Geor^ CaTenoish, in his Life of Wolsey, 
(ed. Singer, ii. 17). Wolsey's Letter of Directions about his school should be con- 
Milted. It is printed. 

' Colet's Statutes for St Paul's School are giyen in Howard Staunton's Orsat 

SekooU ofBnglandf p. 179-85« 



liv 



FOREWORDS. 



1520 Bruton or Brewton. Fr. Gr. 
Sch. 

ab. 1520 RoUcston, nr. Bnrton- 

upon-Trent. Fr. Gr. Sch. 
bef. 1521 Tenterden. Fr. Sch. 

1521 Milton Abbas, near Blandford. 
Fr. Gr. Sch. 

1522 Taunton. Fr. Gr. Sch. 
1522 Biddenden, near Cranbrook. 

Free Latin Gr. Sch. 
bef. 1524-5 Manchester. Fr. Gr. 

Sch. 
1524 Berkhampstead. Fr. Gr. Sch. 
1526 Pocklington. Fr. Gr. Sch. 
1526 Childrey, near Wantage. Fr. 

Sch. 
bef. 1528 Cackfield. Fr. Gr. Sch. 
1528 Gloucester. Saint Mary de 

Crypt. Fr. Gr. Sch. 
1528 Grantham. Fr. Gr. Sch. 
1530 Stamford, or Stanford. Fr. Gr. 

Sch. 
1530 Newark-upon-Trent. Fr. Gr. 

Sch. 
bef. Reform. Norwich. Old Gr. Sch. 
t. Ref. Loughborough. Fr. Gr. Sch. 



1532 Horsham. Fr. Sch. 

1533 Bristol. City Fr. Gr. Sch. 
ab. 1533 Newcastle-upon-Tyne. 

Royal Gr. Sch. 
ab. 1535 Stoke, near Clare. Fr. Gr. 

Sch. 
1541 Brecknock. Gr. Sch. 
1541 Ely. Fr. Sch. 

1541 Durham. Gr. Sch. 

1541-2 Worcester. The King's 
[t. i. Cathedral Grammar] or 
College School. 

1542 Canterbury. The King's School. 
1542 Rochester. The King's Sch." 
1542 Findon, properly Thingdon, 

near Wellingborough. Fr. Sch. 

1542 Northampton. Fr. Gr. Sch. 

1543 Abergavenny. Fr. Gr. Sch. 

1544 Chester. [Cathedral] Gr., or 
King's School. 

1544 Sutton Coldfield. Gr. Sch. 
bef. 1545 Gloucester. Cathedral 

[t i. King's], or College School. 

1545 St Mary of Ottery. Gr. Sch. 
bef. 1547 Wisbech. Gr. Sch. 
bef. 1549 Wellington. Gr. Sch. 



About 1174 A. D., Fitzstephen speaks of the London schools and 

scholars thus : — I use Pegge's translation, 1772, to which Mr Chappell 

referred, me, — 

" The three principal churches in London^ are privileged by grant 
and ancient usage with schools, and they are all very flourishing. 
Often indeed through the favour and countenance of persons eminent 
in philosophy, more schools are permitted. On festivals, at those 
churches where the Feast of the Patron Saint is solemnized, the 
masters convene their scholars. The youth, on that occasion, dispute, 
some in the demonstrative way, and some logically. These pioduce 
their enthymemes, and those the more perfect syllogisms. Some, the 
better te shew their parts, are exercised in disputation, contending 
with one another, whilst others are put upon establishing some truth 
by way of illustration. Some sophists endeavour to apply, on feigned 
topics, a vast heap and flow of words, others te impose upon you with 



I ' That there was a school at Rochester before Henry YIII/s time is proved by 
our Statutes, which speak of the Sehola Grammaticalis as being ruinoaa ^ admodum 
deformia,* R. Whiston. 

' l^cgge concludes these to hayc been St Paul's, Bow, and Martin's le Grand. 



FOREWORDS. Iv 

false conclusions. As to the orators, some with their rhetorical 
harangues employ all the powers of persuasion, taking care to observe 
the precepts of art, and to omit nothing opposite to the subject. The 
boys of different schools wrangle with one another in verse ; contend- 
ing about the principles of Grammar, or the rules of the Perfect 
Tenses and Supines. Others there are, who in Epigrams, or other 
compositions in numbers, use all that low ribaldry we read of in the 
Ancients ; attacking their school-masters, but without mentioning 
names, with the old Fescennine licentiousness, and discharging their 
scofis and sarcasms against them ; touching the foibles of their school- 
feUowSy or perhaps of greater personages, with true Socratic wit, or 
biting them more keenly with a Theonine tooth : The audience, fully 
disposed to laugh, 

' With curling nose ingeminate the peals.* " 
Of the sports of the boys, Fitzstephen gives a long description. 
On Shrove-Tuesday, each boy brought his fighting cock to his master, 
and they had a cock-fight all morning in the school-room.' After 
dinner, football in the fields of the suburbs, probably Smithfield. 
Every Sunday in Lent they had a sham-fight, some on horseback, 
some on foot, the King and his Court often looking on. At Easter 
they played at the Water-Quintain, charging a target, which if they 
missed, souse they went into the water. ' On holidays in summer the 
pastime of the youths is to exercise themselves in archery, in running, 
leaping, wrestling, casting of stones, and flinging to certain distances, 
and lastly with bucklers.' At moonrise the maidens danced. In 
the winter holidays, the boys saw boar-fights, hog-fights, bull and 
bear-baiting, and when ice came they slid, and skated on the leg- 
bones of some animal, punting themselves along with an iron-shod 
pole, and charging one another. A set of merry scenes indeed. 

" In general, we are assured by the most learned man of the 
thirteenth century, Roger Bacon, that there never had been so great 
an appearance of learning, and so general an application to study, in 
so many different faculties, as in his time, when schools were erected 
in every city, town, burgh, and castle.** (Henry's Hist, of England, 
vol iv. p. 472-3.) 

In the twenty-fifth year of Henry VL, 1447, four Grammar 

Schools were appointed to be opened in London^ for the education of 

^ The CDstom of boys bringing cocks to masters has left a trace at Sedburgh, 
where the boys paj a sum erery year on a particular day (ShroTO-Tuesday ?} as 
*^ eoek-penny . " Quick. 

' On the London Schools, see also Sir George Buc*s short cap. 36, " Moore of 



Ivi AN ETON BOY IN A.D. U78. 

the City yoiitli {Carlisle). But from the above lists it will be seeu 
that Grammar Schools had not much to do with the education of our 
nobility and gentry before 1450 a.d. 

Of Eton studies, the Paston Letters notice only Latin versifying, 
but they show us a young man supposed to be nineteen, still at 
school, having a smart pair of breeches for holy days, falling in love, 
eating figs and raisins, proposing to come up to London for a 
day or two's holiday or lark to his elder brother's, and having M. 
sent him in a letter to buy a pair of slippers with. WiUiam 
Paston, a younger brother of John's, when about nineteen years old, 
and studying at Eton, writes on Nov. 7, 1478, to thank his brother 
for a noble in gold, and says, 

"my creanser (creditor) Master Thomas (Stevenson) heartily recom- 
mendeth him to you, and he prayeth you to send him some money 
for my commons, for he saith ye be twenty shillings in his debt, for 
a month was to pay for when he had money last ; abo I beseech you 
to send me a hose cloth, one for the holy days of some colour, and 
another for working days (how coarse soever it be, it maketh no 
matter), and a stomacher and two shirts, and a pair of shppers : and 
if it like you that I may come with Alweder by water " — ^would they 
take a pair-oar and pull down 1 (the figs and raisins came up by a 
barge ;) — " and sport me with you at London a day or two this term- 
time, then ye may let all this be till the time that I come, and then 
I will tell you when I shall be ready to come from Eton by the 
grace of God, who have you in his keeping." Paston LetterSy modern- 
ised, vol. 2, p. 129. 

This is the first letter ; the second one about the figs, raisins, 
and love-making (dated 23 Feb. 1478-9) is given at voL ii. p. 122-3. 

Tusser, who was seized as a Singing boy for the King's Chapel, 

lets us know that he got well birched at Eton. 

" From Paul's I went • to Eton sent 
To learn straightways • the Latin phrase 
When fifty-three • stripes given to me 
At once I had : 

other Schooles in London," in his Third VniueraitU of England (t. i. London). He 
notices the old schools of the monasteries, &c., * in whose stead there he some few 
founded lately hy good men ' as the Merchant Taylors, and Thomas Sutton, founder 
of the great new Hospital! in the Charter house, [who] hath translated the Tenis 
court to a Grammar Schoole . . for 30 schoUers, poore mens children . . There be 
also other Triuiall Schooles for the bringing up of youth in good literature, t^, 
in S. Magnus, in S. Michadt, in S. Thomas^ and others. 



FOREWORDS. Ivil 

For fault but small * or none at all 
It come to pass ' thus beat I was. 
See, XJdall,* see * the mercy of thee 
To me poor lad ! " 

I was rather surprised to find no mention of any Eton men in 
the first vol. of Wood's AihencB Oxonienses (ed. Bliss) except two, 
who had first taken degrees at Cambridge, Kobert Aldrich and 
William Alley, the latter admitted at Cambridge 1528 (Wood, p. 
375, col. 2). Plenty of London men are named in Wood, voL 1. 
Xo doubt in early times the Eton men went to their own founda- 
tion. King's (or other Colleges at) Cambridge, while the Winchester 
men went to their foundation. New College, or elsewhere at Oxford, 
In the first volume of Bliss's edition of Wood, the following 
Winchester men are noticed : 

p. 30, col. 2, William Grocyn, educated in grammaticals in Wyke- 

ham's school near Winchester. 
p. 78, coL 2, William Herman, made fellow of New ColL in U77. 
Author of the Vulyarla Ptteroruniy Ac. (See also Andrew 
Borde, p. xxxiv, above, note.) 
p. 379, coL 2, John Boxall, Fellow of New ColL 1542. 
402, coL 2, Thomas Hardyng „ „ „ 1536. 
450, coL 2, Henry Cole „ „ „ 1523. 

469, col. 1, Nicholas Saunders,, „ „ 1548. 
678, col. 2, Richard Haydock „ „ „ 1590. 
That the post-Reformation Grammar Schools did not at first 
educate as many boys as the old monastic schools is well known. 
Strype says, 

" On the 15th of January, 1562, Thomas Williams, of the Inner 
Temple, esq. being chosen speaker to the lower house, was presented 
to the queen : and in his speech to her . . took notice of the want 
of schools ; that at least an hundred were wanting in England which 
before this time had been, [being destroyed (I suppose he meant) by 
the dissolution of monasteries and religious houses, fraternities and 
coU^es.] He would have had England continually flourishing with 
ten thousand scholars, which the schools in this nation formerly 
brought up. That from the want of these good schoolmasters sprang 
up ignorance : and covetousness got the livings by impropriations ; 
which was a decay, he said, of learning, and by it the tree of know- 

' Udall became Master of Eton about 1534. 



Iviii POST-BEFORMATION GRAMMAR SCHOOLS. 

ledge grew downward, not upward ; which grew greatly to the dis- 
honour, hoth of God and the commonwealth. He mentioned likewise 
the decay of the universities ; and how that great market-towns were 
without schools or preachers : and that the poor vicar had but 20^. 
[or some such poor fdlowance,] and the rest, being no small sum, was 
impropriated. And so thereby, no preacher there ; but the people, 
being trained up and led in blindness for want of instniction, became 
obstinate : and therefore advised that this should be seen to, and im- 
propriations redressed, notwithstanding the laws already made [which 
favoured them]. — Strype, Anncda of tlie Reformation^ voL i. p. 437. 

Of the Grammar Schools in his time (a.d. 1577) Harrison says : 

Besides these universities, also there are a great number of 
Gramraer Schooles throughout the realme, and those verie liberallie 
endued for the better relief of pore scholers, so that there are not 
manie corporate townes, now under the queene's dominion that have 
not one Gramer Schole at the least, with a sufficient living for a 
master and usher appointed to the same. 

There are in like manner divers coUegiat churches, as Windsor, 
Wincester, Eaton, Westminster (in which I was sometime an unpro- 
fitable Grammarian under the reverend father, master Nowell, now 
dean of Paules) and in those a great number of pore scholers, dailie 
maintained by the liberality of the founders, with meat, bookes, and 
apparell ; from whence after they have been well entered in the 
knowledge of the Latine and Greek tongs, and rules of versifjring 
(the trial! whereof is made by certain apposers, yearlie appointed to 
examine them), they ai'e sent to certain especiall houses in each 
universitie *, where they are received & trained up in the points of 
higher knowledge in their privat halls till they be adjudged meet to 
show their faces in the schooles, as I have said alreadie. 

Greek was first taught at a public school in England by LiUye 

soon after the year 1500. This was at St Paul's School in London, 

then newly established by Dean Colet, and to which Erasmus alluded 

as the best of its time in 1514, when he said that he had in three 

years taught a youth more Latin than he could have acquired in any 

school in England, ne Liliana quidem excepta, not even Lillye's 

excepted. (Warton, iii. 1.) The first schoolmaster who stood up for 

the study of English was, I believe, Richard Mulcaster, of King's 

College, Cambridge, and Christ Church, Oxford. In 1561 he was 

appointed the first head-master of Merchant-Taylors School in 

London, then just founded as a feeder or pro-seminary for St John's 

^ Tho penrersion of these elections by bribery is noticod by Harrison in the 
former extract from him on the Uniyersities. 



FOREWOUDS. lix 

College, Oxford (JVarton, iii. 282). In his Elementarie, 1582, he 

has a long passage on the study of English, the whole of which I 

print here, at Mr Quick's desire, as it has slipt out of people's minds, 

and Mulcaster deserves honour for it : — 

" But bycause I take vpon me in this Elementarie, besides som 
frindfihip to secretaries for the pen, and to correctors for the print, to 
direct such peple as teach childern to read and write English, and the 
reading must nedes be such as the writing leads vnto, thereifor, (sic) 
befor I medle with anie particular precept, to direct the Eeader, I 
will thoroughlie rip vp the hole certaintie of our English writing, so 
far furth and with such assurance, as probabilitie can make me, bycause 
it is a thing both proper to my argument, and profitable to my cuntrie. 
For our naturall tung being as beneficiaU vnto vs for our nedefuU 
deliuerie, as anie other is to the peple which vse it : & hauing as 
pretie, and as fair obseruations in it, as anie other hath : and being as 
readie to yield to anie rule of Art, as anie other is : why should I not 
take som pains to find out the right writing of ours, as other cuntri- 
men haue don to find the like in theirs ] & so much the rather, 
bycause it is pretended, that the writing thereof is meruellous vncer- 
tain, and scant to be recouered from extreme confusion, without som 
change of as great extremitie 1 I mean therefor so to deall in it, as I 
maie wipe awaie that opinion of either vncertaintie for confusion, or 
impossibilitie for direction, that both the naturall English maie haue 
wherein to rest, & the desirous stfrjanger maie haue whereby to learn. 
For the performance whereof, and mine own better direction, I will 
first examin those means, whereby other tungs of most sacred anti- 
quitie haue bene brought to Art and form of discipline for their right 
writing, to the end that by following their waie, I maie hit vpon their 
light, and at the least by their president deuise the like to theirs, 
where the vse of our tung, & the propertie of our dialect will not 
yeild flat to theirs. That don, I will set all the varietie of our now 
writing, & the vncertaine force of all our letters, in as much certaintie, 
as anie writing can be, by these seuen precepts, — 1. Generall rule^ 
which concemeth the propertie and vse of ech letter : 2. Proportion 
which reduceth aU words of one sound to the same writing : 3. Coin- 
jpositioTiy which teacheth how to write one word made of mo : 4. 
Deriiuzfion, which examineth the ofspring of euerie origiiiall: 6. 
Distinction which bewraieth the difference of sound and force in 
letters by som writen figure or accent : 6. Ev/ranchisment, which 
directeth the right writing of all incorporat foren words : 7. Preroga- 
iiite, which declareth a reseruation, wherein common vse will continew 
hir precedence in our En[g]lish writing, as she hath don euerie where 
else, both for the form oi the letter, in som places, which likes the 
pen better : and for the difference in writing, where som particular 
caueat will chek a common rule. In all these seuen I will so 
examin the particularities of our tung, as either nothing shall 



Ix STUDY OF ENGLISH RECOMMENDED IN 1582 — 1612. 

eenie strange at all, or if anie thing do seme, yet it shall not 
seme so strange, but that either the self same, or the verie like vnto 
it, or the more strange then it is, shal appear to be in, those things, 
which ar more familiar vnto vs for extraordinarie learning, then 
required of vs for our ordinarie vse. And forasmuch as the eie will 
help manie to write right by a sene president, which either cannot 
vnderstand, or cannot entend to vnderstand the reason of a rule, 
therefor in the end of this treatis for right writing, I purpos to set 
down a generall table of most English words, by waie of president, to 
help such plane peple, as cannot entend the vnderstanding of a rule, 
which requireth both time and conceit in perceiuing, but can easilie 
run to a generall table, which is readier to their hand. By the which 
table I shall also confirm the right of my rules, that theie hold 
thoroughout, & by multitude of examples help som maim (so) in 
precepts. Thus much for the right writing of our English tung, which 
male seme (so) for a preface to the principle of Reading^ as the matter 
of the one is the maker of the other. — 1582. Rich^ Mulcaster. The 
First Part of the Elementarie, pp. 63-4. 

Brinsley follows Mulcaster in exhorting to the study of English ; 

"there seemes vnto mee, to bee a verie maine want in all our 
Grammar schooles generally, or in the most of them ; whereof I haue 
heard som great learned men to complain ; That there is no care had 
in respect, to traine vp schollars so as they may be able to expresse 
their minds purely and readily in our owne tongue, and to increase 
in the practice of it, as well as in the Latine or Greeke ; whereas our 
chiefe indeuour should bee for it, and that for these reasons. 1. 
Because that language which all sorts and conditions of men amongst 
vs are to haue most vse o^ both in speech & writing, is our 
owne natiue tongue. 2. The purity and elegancie of our owne 
language is to be esteemed a chiefe part of the honour of our 
nation : which we all ought to aduance as much as in vs lieth. As 
when Greece and Eome and other nations haue most florished, their 
languages also haue beene most pure : and from those times of Greece 
& Kome, wee fetch our chiefest patterns, for the learning of their 
tongues. 3. Because of those which are for a time trained vp in 
schooles, there are very fewe which proceede in learning, in compari- 
son of them that follow other callings. 

John Brinsley, The Grammar Schoole, p. 21, 22. 

His *' Meanes to obtaine this benefit of increasing in our English 
tong, as in the Latin," are 

1. Daily vse of Lillies rules construed. 

2. Continuall practice of English Grammaticall translations. 

3. Translating and writing English, with some other Schoole 
exercises. Ibid,, side-notes, p. 22, 23. 

On this question of English boys studying English, let it be 

remembered that in this year of grace 1867, in all Eagland there is 



FOREWORDS. Ixi 

just one public school at which English is studied historically — the 
City of London School — and that in this school it was begun only 
last year by the new Head-Master, the Rev. Edwin A- Abbot, all 
honour to hinL In every class an English textbook is read, Piers 
Plowman being that for the highest class. This neglect of English 
as a subject of study is due no doubt to tutors' and parents' ignorance. 
None of them know the language historically ; the former can't teach 
it, the latter don't care about it ; why should their boys learn iti Oh 
tutors and parents, there are such things as asses in the world. 

Of the school-life of a Grammar-school boy in 1612 we may get a 
notion from Brinsley's p. 296, " chap. xxx. Of Schoole times, inter- 
missions and recreations," which is full of interest. ' 1. The Schoole- 
time should beginne at sixe : all who write Latine to make their 
exercises which were giuen ouemight, in that houre before seuen'. 
— ^To make boys punctual, ' so many of them as are there at sixe, 
to haue their places as they had them by election' or the day 
before : all who come after six, euery one to sit as he commeth, and 
80 to continue that day, and vntiU he recouer his place againe by the 
election of the fourme or otherwise. . . K any cannot be brought by 
this, them to be noted in the blacke BiU by a speciall marke, and 
feele the punishment thereof : and sometimes present correction to be 
vsed for terrour. . . Thus they are to continue vntill nine [at work 
in class], signified by Monitours, Subdoctour or otherwise. Then at 
nine . . to let them to haue a quarter of an houre at least, or more, 
for intermission, eythcr for breakefast . . or else for the necessitie of 
eueiy one, or their honest recreation, or to prepare their exercises 
against the Masters comming in. [2.] After, each of them to be in 
his place in an instant, vpon the knocking of the dore or some other 
sign . . so to continue vntill eleuen of the clocke, or somwhat after, 
to counteruaile the time of the intermission at nine. 

(3.) To be againe all ready, and in their places at one, in an 
instant ; to continue vntill three, or halfe an houre after : then to 
haue another quarter of an houre or more, as at nine for drinking and 
necessities ; so to continue till halfe an houre after fine : thereby in 

1 See p. 273-4, * all of a fourme to name who is tbe best of their fourme, and who 
is the best next him *. 



Ixii A GRAMMARSCHOOL-BOY'S day in A.D. 1612. 

that halfe houre to counteruaile the time at three ; then to end so as 
was shewed, with reading a peece of a Chapter, and with singing two 
staues of a Psabne : lastly with prayer to be vsed by the Master.' 

To the objectors to these intermissions at nine and three, who may 
reproach the schoole, thinking that they do nothing but play, 
Brinsley answers, — * 2. By this meanes also the Schollars may bee 
kept euer in their places, and hard to their labours, without that 
running out to the Campo (as the[y] tearme it) at school times, and 
the manifolde disorders thereof; as watching and striuing for the 
clubbe,^ and loytering then in the fields ; some hindred that tliey 
cannot go forth at alL (5.) it is very requisite also, that they should 
have weekly one part of an afternoone for recreation, as a reward of 
their diligence, obedience and profiting ; and that to be appointed at 
the Masters discretion, eyther the Thursday, after the vsuall custom ; 
or according to the best opportunity of the place. . . AH recreations 
and sports of schollars, would be meet for Gentlemen. Clownish 
sports, or perilous, or yet playing for money, are no way to be 
admitted.' 

On the age at which boys went to school, Brinsley says, p. 9, 

" For the time of their entrance with vs, in our countrey schooles, 
it is commonly about 7. or 8. yeares olde : six is very soone, K any 
begin so early, they are rather sent to the schoole to keepe them from 
troubling the house at home, and from danger, and shrewd tumes, 
then for any great hope and desire their friends haue that they should 
leame anything in effect." 

To return from this digression on Education. Enough has been 

said to show that the progress of Education, in our sense of the 

word, was rather from below upwards, than from above downwards ; 

and I conclude that the young people to whom the Bahees Boks, &c., 

were addressed, were the children of our nobility, knights, and squires, 

and that the state of their manners, as left by their home training, 

was such as to need the inculcation on them of the precepts contained 

in the Poems. If so, dirty, ill-mannered, awkward yoimg gawks, 

must most of these hopes-of-England have been, to modem notions. 

The directions for personal cleanliness must have been much needed 

when one considers the small stock of linen and clothes that men not 

I ? key of the Campo, Bee pp. 299 and 300, or a club, the holder of which had a 
right to go out 



FOREWORDS. Ixiii 

rich must have had j and if we may judge from a passage in Edward 
the Fourth's Liber Niger ^ even the King himself did not use his 
footpan every Saturday night, and would not have been the worse for 
an occasional tubbing : — 

" This harbour shall have, every satyrday at nyght, if it please 
the Kinge to cleanse his head, legges, or feet, and for his shaving, 
two lov^, one picher wyne. And the ussher of chambre ought to 
testyfye if this is necessaryly dispended or not." 

So far as appears from Edward the Fourth's Liber Niger Dortms, soap 
was used only for washing clothes. The yeoman hi vender, or washer 
man, was to take from the Great Spicery * as muche whyte soape, 
greye, and blacke, as can be thought resonable by proufe of the 
Countrollers,* and therewith * tenderly to waysshe . . the stuffe for 
the Eanges propyr peisone * {H, Ord. p. 85) ; but whether that 
cleansing material ever touched His Majesty's sacred person (except 
doubtless when and if the barber shaved him), does not appear. The 
Ordinances are considerate as to sex, and provide for "weomen 
kvendryes " for a Queen, and further that " these officers oughte to 
bee swome to keepe the chambre counsaylle." But it is not for one 
of a nation that has not yet taken generally to tubbing and baths, 
or left ofif shaving, to reproach his forefathers with want of cleanli- 
ness, or adherence to customs that involve contradiction of the 
teachings of physiologists, and the evident intent of Nature or the 
Creator. Moreover, reflections on the good deeds done, and the high 
thoughts thought, by men of old dirtier than some now, may prevent 
us concluding that because other people now talk through their 
noses, and have manners different from our own, they and their in- 
stitutions must be wholly abominable ; that because others smell 
when heated, they ought to be slaves ; or that eating peas with a 
knife renders men unworthy of the franchise. The temptation to 
value manners above morals, and pleasantness above honesty, is one 
that all of us have to guard against. And when we have held to a 
custom merely because it is old, have refused to consider fairly the 
reasons for its change, and are inclined to grumble when the change 
is carried out, we shall be none the worse for thinking of the people, 
young and old, who, in the time of Harrison and Shakapere, the " For- 



Ixiv THE GOOD OLD TIMES OP SMOKE AND FILTH. 

gotten Worthies"* and Ealeigh, no doubt 'hated those nasty new 
oak houses and chimnies/ and sighed for the good old times : 

" And yet see the change, for when our houses were builded of 
willow, then had we oken men ; but now that our houses are come 
to be made of oke, our men are not onlie become willow, but a great 
manie through Persian delicacie crept in among vs, altogither of 
straw, which is a sore alteration. . . Now haue we manie chimnics, 
and yet our tenderlings complaine of rheumes, catarhs and poses. 
Then had we none but reredosses, and our heads did neuer ake.* 
For as the smoke in those daies was supposed to be a sufficient 
hardning for the timber of the house ; so it was reputed a far better 
medicine to keepe the goodman and his familie from the quack or 
pose, wherewith as then verie few were oft acquainted." Harrisony 
i. 212, col. 1, quoted by Ellis. 

If rich men and masters were dirty, poor men and servants must 
have been dirtier stilL "William Langlande's description of Haw- 
kyn's one metaphorical dress in which he slept o* nightes as 
well as worked by day, beslobbered (or hy-moled, bemauled) by 
children, was true of the real smock ; flesh-moths must have been 
plentiful, and the sketch of Coveitiso, as regards many men, hardly 
an exaggeration : 

. . as a bonde-man of his bacon • his herd was bi-draveled, 
With his hood on his heed * a lousy hat above, 
And in a tawny tabard • of twelf wynter age 
Al so torn and baudy • and ful of lys crepyng. 
But if that a lous* couthe • ban lopen the bettre, 

* See Mr Froude'a noble article in The Wettmimter Review^ No. 3, July, 1862 
(lately republished by him in a collection of Essays, &c.). 

2 Their eyes most have smarted. The natives' houses in India have (generally) 
no chimneys still, and Mr Moreshwar says the smoke does make your eyes water. 

3 Mouffet is learned on the Louse. 

'* In the first beginning whilest man was in his innocency, and free from wicked- 
nesse, he was subject to no corruption and filth, but when he was seduced by the 
wickednesse of that great and cunning deceiver, and proudly affected to know as 
much as God knew, God humbled him with divers diseases, and divers sorts of 
Worms, with Lice, Hand-worms, Belly- worms, others call Termites, small Nits and 
Acarcs . . a Lowse . . is a beastly Creature, and known better in Innes and Armies 
then it is wellcome. The profit it bringeth, Achillea shcweth,' Iliad I. in these 
words : / inake no more of him then I doe of a Lowse ; as we have an English Pro- 
yerb of a poor man, Se is not worth a Lowse, The Lice that trouble men are 
either tame or wilde ones, those the English call Lies, and these Crab-liee ; the 
North English call them Pert-liee, that is, a petulant Lowse comprehending both 
kindes ; it is a certain sign of misery, and is sometimes the inevitable scourge of 



forswouds. Ixv 

She sliolde noght han walked on that welthe * so was it thred-bare. 

(Virion, Passus V. vol. 1, 1. 2859-70, ed. Wright.) 

In the Kinffe and Miller, Percy folio, p. 236, when the Miller 

proposes that the stranger should sleep with their son, Kichaid the 

son says to the King 

" Xay, first," quoth Richard, " good fellowe, tell me true, 
hast thou noe creepers in thy gay hose 1 
art thou not troabled with the Scabbado 1 " 

The colour of washerwomen's legs was due partly to dirt, I 

suppose. The princess or queen Clarionas, when escaping with the 

laundress as her assistant, is obliged to have her white legs reduced 

to thA customary shade of grey : 

Hight as she should stoupe a4oun. 
The queue was tukked wel on high ; 
The kuender perceiued wel therbigh 
Hir white legges, and seid '^ ma dame, 
Youre shin boones might doo vs blame ; 
Abide," she seid, " so mot I thee, 
More slotered thei most be." 
Asshes with the water she menged, 
And her white legges al be-sprenged. 

ab. 1440 A.D., Syr Generides, p. 218, 11. 7060-8. 

If in Henry the Eighth's kitchen, scullions lay about naked, or 

tattered and filthy, what would they do elsewhere 1 Here is the 

King's Ordinance against them in 1526 : 

God." Bowland*8 Jfouffet't Theater af Insects, p. 1090, ed. 1658 (published in 
Latin, 1634). By this date we had improved. Mooffet says, " These filthy creatures 
. . are hated more than Dogs or Vipers by our daintiest Dames," td. p. 1093 ; and 
again, p. 1097, " Cardan, that was a fancier of subtilties, writes that the Carthusiam 
are never ye^ed with Wall-Uce, and he gives the cause, because they eat no flesh. . • 
He should rather have alledged their cleanliness, and the frequent washing of their 
beds and blankets, to be the cause of it, which when the ^ench, the IhUeh, and 
Italians do less regard, they more breed this plague. But the English that take 
great care to be cleanly and decent, are seldom troubled with them." Also, on p. 1092, 
he says, ' As for dressing the body : all Ireland is noted for this, that it swarms almost 
with Lice. But that this proceeds from the beastliness of the people, and want of 
deanly women to wash them is manifest, because the English that are more careful 
to dress themselves, changing and washing their shirts often, having inhabited so 
long in Irelandy have escaped that plague. . . Bemedies. The Irish and Iseland 
people (who are frequently troubled with Lice, and such as will fly, as they say, in 
Summer) anoint their shirts with Saffron, and to very good purpose, to drive away 
the Lice, but after six moneths they wash their shirts again, putting fresh Saffron 
into the Lye.' Rowland's Mouffet (1634), Theatsr of Insects, p. 1092, ed. 1658. 

f 



Ixvi NAKED SCULLIONS AND DIRTT STREETS. 

" And for the better avoydyng of corruption and all uncleannesse 
out of the Kings house, which doth ingender danger of infection, 
and is very noisome and displeasant unto all the noblemen and 
others repaireing unto the same ; it is ordeyned by the Kings High- 
nesse, that the three master cookes of the kitchen shall have everie 
of them by way of reward yearly twenty marks, to the intent they 
shall prouide and sufficiently furnish the said kitchens of such 
scolyons as shall not goe naked or in garments of such, vilenesse as 
they now doe, and have been acuMomed to doe, nor lie in the nights 
and dayes in tJie kitchens or ground by the fireside ; but that they 
of the said money may be found with honest and whole course 
garments, without such uncleannesse as may be the annoyance of 
those by whom they shall passe ". . . 

That our commonalty, at least, in Henry VIII/s time did stink 

(as is the nature of man to do) may be concluded from Wolsey's 

custom, |7hen going to Westminster Hall, of 

"holding in his hand a very fair orange, whereof the meat or 
substance within was taken out, and filled up again with the part of 
a sponge, wherein was vinegar, and other confections against the 
pestilent airs; the which he most commonly smelt unto, passing 
among the press, or else when he was pestered with many suitors.'' 
{Cavendish^ p. 43.) 

On the dirt in English houses and streets we may take the 

testimony of a witness who liked England, and lived in it, and who 

was not likely to misrepresent its condition, — Erasmus. In a letter 

to Francis, the physician of Cardinal Wolsey, says Jortin, 

'^ Erasmus ascribes the plague (&om which England was hardly 
ever free) and the sweating-sickness, partly to tibe incommodious 
form and bad exposition of the houses, to the filthiness of the streets, 
and to the sluttishness within doors. The floors, says he, are commonly 
of clay, strewed with rushes, under which lies unmolested an ancient 
collection of beer, grease (?), fragments, bones, spittle, excrements [t. 
i. urine] of dogs and cats [t. i. men,] and every thing that is nasty, 
&c." (Life of Erasmus, i. 69, ed. 1808, referred to in Ellis, i. 328, 
note.) 

The great scholar's own words are, 

Tum sola fere sunt argilla, tum scirpis palustribus, qui subinde sic 
renovantur, ut fundamentum maneat aliquoties annos viginti, sub 
se fovens sputa, vomitus, mictum canum et hominum, projectam 
cervisiam, et piscium reliquias, aliasque sordes non nominandas. 
Hinc mutato coelo vapor quidam exhaiatur, mea sententia minime 
salubris himiano corpori 

After speaking also De salsamentis (rendered ^ salt meat, beef. 



FOREWORDS. IxVU 

pork, &c.,' by Jortin, but which Liher Cure Cocorum authorises us in 
transhitiiig * Sauces ' '), quihua vulgus mirum in modum ddectaiur, he 
says the English would be more healthy if their windows were made 
80 as to shut out noxious winds, and then continues, 

" Conferret hue, si vulgo parcior victus persuaderi posset, ac 
Balsamentonun moderatior usus. Turn si publica cura demandaretur 
^dilibus, ut viae mundiores essent a coeno, mictuque : Curarentur et 
ea quae civitati vicina sint. Jortin' 8 Life of Erasmus^ ed. 1808, iii. 
44 (Ep. 432, C. 1815), No. VIII. Erasmus Eot Francisco. Cardina- 
lis Eboracencis Medico, S. 

K it be objected that I have in the foregoing extracts shown the 

dark side of the picture, and not the bright one, my answer is that 

the bright one — of the riches and luxury in England — ^must be 

familiar to all our members, students (as I assume) of our early 

books, that the Treatises in this Volume sufficiently show this bright 

aide, and that to me, as foolometer of the Society, this dark side 

8e3med to need showing. But as The Chronicle of May 11, 1867, in 

its review of Mr Fox Browne's English Merchants^ seems to think 

otherwise, I quote its words, p. 155, col. 2. 

"All the nations of the world, says Matthew of Westminster, 
were kept warm by the wool of England, made into cloth by the men 
of Flanders. And while we gave useful clothing to other countries, 
we received festive garments from them in return. For most of our 
information on these subjects we are indebted to Matthew Paris, who 
tells us that when Alexander III. of Scotland was married to Margaret, 
daughter of Henry III., one thousand English knights appeared at 
the wedding in coiivtisea of silk, and the next day each knight donned 
a new robe of another kind. This grand entertainment was fatal to 
sixty oxen, and cost the then Archbishop of York no less a sum than 
4000 marks. Macpherson remarks on this great display of silk as a 
proof of the wealth of England under the Korman kings, a point 
which has not been sufficiently elaborated. In 1242 the streets of 
London were covered or shaded with silk, for the reception of Richard, 
the King's brother, on his return &om the Holy Land. Few English- 

> Prof. Brewer says that Erasmus, rejecting the MedisTal Latin and adopting 
the Clasfical, no doabt used salsamenta in its classical sense of salt-meat, and 
referred to the great quantity of it used in England during the winter, when no 
fresh meat was eaten, but only that which had been killed at the annual autumn 
slaughtering, and then salted down. Stall-fattening not being practised, the 
autumn was the time for fat cattle. SaUamtrUum, howeyer, is translated in White 
and Riddle's Dictionary, **A. Fish-pickle, brine; B. Salted or picUed fish (so 
usually in plural}." 

f2 



Ixviii THE TREATISES IN THIS VOLUME. 

men are aware of the existence of such magnificence at that early 
period ; while every story-book of history gives us the reverse of the 
picture, telling us of straw-covered floors, scarcity of body linen, and 
the like. Long after this, in 1367, it is recorded, as a special instance 
of splendour of costume, that 1000 citizens of Genoa were clothed in 
silk; and this tale has been repeated from age to age, while the 
similar display, at an earlier date, in England, has passed unnoticed." 

Turning at last to notice the several pieces in the present volume, 
I have only to say of number 1, Tlie Baheea Boke^ that I have not 
had time to search for its Latin original, or other copies of the text. 
Its specialty is its attributing so high birth to the Bele Babees 
whom it addresses, and its appeal to Lady Facetia to help its writer. 
Of the short alphabetic poems that follow, — Tlie A B C of Aristoile^ 
Nos. 2 and 3, — copies occur elsewhere ; and that in Harl. MS. 1 304, 
which has a different introduction, I hope to print in the companion 
volume to this, already alluded to. No. 4, Vrhanitatu, I was glad to 
find, because of the mention of the hooke of urhanitie in Edward the 
Fourth's Liber Niger (p. ii. above), as we thus know what the Duke 
of Norfolk of " Flodden Field " was taught in his youth as to his 
demeanings, how mannerly he should eat and drink, and as to his 
communication and other forms of court. He was not to spit or 
suite before his Lord the King, or wipe his nose on the table-cloth. 
Nos. 6 and 6, The Lytylle Chyldrenes Lytil Soke or Edyllys Be * 
(a title made up from the text) and The Young ChildrerCs 
Book, are differing versions of one set of maxims, and are printed 
opposite one another for contrast sake. The Lytil Boke was printed 
from a later text, and with an interlinear French version, by 
"Wynkyn de Worde in * Here hegynneth a lyteU treat yse for to leme 
Engliaahe and Frensahe* This will be printed by Ikir Wheatley in 
his Collection of Early Treatises on Grammar for the Society, as the 
copy in the GrenviUe Library in the Brit. Mus. is the only one 
known. (By the way, what member will find some additional tracts 
for this volume 1 There must be some lying about somewhere.) 

^ What this Edyliyt Be means, I haye no idea, and five or six other men I haye 
asked are in the same condition. A.S. otYel is noble, apelinff, a prince, a noble ; 
that may do for edyllys. Be may be for ABC, alphabet, elementary g^mmar of 
behayiour. 



FOREWORDS. Ixix 

Other copies of this Lytil Boke are at Edinburgh, Cambridge, and 
Oxford. Of two of these Mr David Laing and Mr Henry Bradshaw 
have kindly given me collations, which are printed at the end of the 
Prefaces here. Of No. 7, Stana Puer ad Merisain, attributed to Lydgate 
— as nearly everything in the first half of the 1 5th century was — I have 
printed two copies, with collations from a third, the Jesus (Cambridge) 
MS. printed by Mr HaUiwell in Rdiquice Antiquce, v. 1, p. 156-8, and 
reprinted by Mr W. C. Hazlitt in his Eaiif/ Popular Poetry, ii. 23-8. 
Mr Hazlitt notices 3 other copies, in Harl. MS. 4011, foL 1, &c. ; Lans- 
downe MS. 699 ; and Additional MS. 5467, which he collated for 
his text. There must be plenty more about the country, as in Ash- 
mole MS. 61, fol. 16, back, in the Bodleian." Of old printed 
editions Mr Hazlitt notes one ** from the press of Caxton, but the 
only copy known is imperfect. It was printed two or three times by 
Wynkyn de Worde. Lowndes mentions two, 1518, 4to, and 1524, 
4to ; and in the public library at Cambridge there is said by Hart- 
shome (Book Rarities^ 156) to be a third without date. It is also 
appended to the various impressions of the Boke of Nurture by 
Hugh Rhodes." This is printed below, and its Stans Puer is Rhodes*3 
own expansion of one of these shorter versions of the original Latin* 
(Part K. p. 30). No, 8 is an incomplete poem on Manners from 
the Lambeth MS. 853. Nos. 9 and 10 are short bits that Mr W. 
Aldis Wright was kind enough to send me. Of the latter of these 
Mr Thomas Wright says, " The verses at the bottom of p. 35, * with 
this bytel,' Ac, belong to a medieval story, which you will find, with 
the verses, in my * Latin Stories * (printed for the Percy Society), pp. 
28, 29. It is, in fact, the same story as King Lear and his Dauthers. 
You will find more about it in the note at the end of my volume, 
and another copy of the verses." 

No. 11, The Good Wijfy is a mother's advice to her daughter as 
to her behaviour generally, her choice of a husband, and the manage- 
ment of her household. It bears trace of the greater freedom of 
action allowed to women in early times than now, a freedom shown 

> P.S. Mr Hazlitt, iv. 366, notices two others in MS. Ashmole 69, art. 57, and 
in Cotton MS. Calig. a ii. fol. 13, the latter of which and Ashmole 61, are, he says, 
of a different translation. 

' See Hazlitt, iv. 366. 



\XX HOW THE GOOD WIFE TAUGHT HEB DAUGHTER. 

in Langlande's ' Cesse the souteresse ' and ' Rose the dyssheres* in 
the celebrated alehouse scene {Virion of Piers PL), in Chaucer's 
Wif of Bathe, in women's membeiship of gilds, &c. The injunction 
not to get drunk often, as that would be shameful (L 39), is a sign of 
the times. And the advice to the girl to scorn no wooer, whatsoever 
he might be (IL 32-3), looks as if husbands were as scarce an article 
then as they are now. In 1838, Sir Frederic Madden printed a few 
copies of this poem for private distribution from a Henry the Sixth. 
MS., which contained 35 stanzas against our 31, but the text is 
inferior to our Lambeth one, especially in the tags of the stanzas. 
This text Mr Hazlitt reprinted in the 1st volume of his most inter- 
esting collection of Early Popular Poetry (4 vols. J. R Smith, £1), 
and I have not collated it with the text printed in the present col- 
lection, because Mr Hazlitt's volimies should be in all our members* 
hands. The Trinity College (Cambridge) MS. of the poem, Mr Aldis 
Wright has kindly collated with our text, in the notes to it. Another 
version of it, di£ferent in almost every stanza, is in the Porkingtoa 
MS. No. 10, and this I hope to print for the Society some day 
or other. Mr Lumby will, I believe, print yet another version for 
us this year from the Lancdot-of'the-Laik MS. ; and a MS. also con- 
taining the poem, Ashmole 61, foL 7, has not been examined for or 
by me. Lastly, Mr Hazlitt notes that a poor copy of the text was 
printed in 1597 (in 33 stanzas) under the title of The Northern 
Mothers Blessing, The Way of Thrift^, Written nine years before 
the death of G, Chaucer. This latter date ia possible, for I feel 
certain that all the copies above mentioned are but variations from 
some original type that has not yet turned up. The Good Wijf con- 
tains an odd instance of how even good editors are sometimes thrown 
off the scent La it occurs the proverb, ** aftir fe wrenne haf veynes, 
Men must lete hir blood," that is, bleed her according to her tiny 
veins, or as we say, * cut your coat according to your cloth,' spend ac- 
cording to your income.* On this Proverb in his Text, Mr Hazlitt 
says (Early Popular Poetry, voL i. p. 187), 

1 ThiB IB a separate poem which I shall print. The vol. is 238 a. 13, in Brit. 
Mus. 

< Cp. ' Ask yonr purse what you should bay' ; * Ken when to spend and when 
to spare, and ye needna be busy, and ye'll ne*er be bare/ from Sislop, 



FOREWORDS. Ixxi 

" The edition of 1597 reads :— 

* After the wren has veines men may let blood.* 

That is to say, at that season of the year when the young bird is of a 
certain growth, men shall, if they require it, undergq cupping ! In 
tho !MS., and in the edition of 1838 (Sir Frederic Madden's,) on the 
contrary, the line runs thus : — 

' For aftir the wrenne hath veynes, men schalle late hir blode.' 

Sir Frederic Madden could make nothing of this passage ^ and in 
his Prefskce he expressly says that * the researches made for this pur- 
pose [the illustration of it] have not proved successful.' It appears to 
me that the sense is figurative, and that what the author intended to 
convey was, that as soon as a person becomes full of substance, the 
world will fleece him or her, if he or she does not exercise vigilance. 
This construction is borne out completely by the context." 

— (** Which seems to indicate that the writer . . missed the point." 
Hctditt, p. 183, n. 4. See too the way-goose note on * away goes,' 
iv. 124.) 

No. 12, How the Wise Man tau^t his Sonne, is the parallel of The 
Gfood Wife, is shorter than it, and written with less go and less detail. 
The advice about choosing a wife is extremely good, the way to treat 

her veiy judicious, — 

. . softo & faire a man may tame 
BoJ>e herte and hynde, bucke & do, — 

as is also the counsel not to be too hasty to fight and chide every one 

she complains of.* That ladies had a supply of pepper sauce on 

hand for servants (and husbands doubtless) as weU as fresh salmon 

and lamprey (Part IL p. 45), we may gather from Wynkyn de 

Worde's warning to his Carver, "ladyes wyll soone be angry, for 

theyr thoughtes ben soone changed " (p. 279). In one point the 

Wise Man was a degenerate Ei^lishman. The Toulmin Smith of his 

time would have rebuked him severely for advising his son (in lines 

41-8, p. 49) to shirk his share of the work that in this self-governing 

land should have been his pride, because he must thereby displease his 

^ ? Sir Frederic says only, " One expression would seem to require illustration, — 
Afiir the wrenne hathe veynes, men aehaUe late hir blode^ — ^but the researches made 
for this purpose haye not proved successful. Oould this phrase be found still in 
existence, it might perhaps afford reasonable grounds for localising the poem." 

* The Cambridge MS. that Mr HazUtt prints has a reason (not in our text) for 
the probable injastice of the wife's complaints, 

For wemen yn wrethe, they can not hyde, 

But sone they reyse a smokci rofc. — (p. 174, 1. 120.) 



Ixxii HOW THE WISE MAN TAUGHT HIS SON. 

neighbours or forswear himself, and get more ill-will than thanks. 
** England expects every man to do his duty" was not the "Wise 
Man's sentiment Ritson printed The Wise Man in his Pieces of 
Ancient Popular Poetry, 1791, p. 83-91, from the Harleian MS. 
4596;' and Mr Hazlitt printed it in his Early Popular Poetry, voL L 
p. 169-77, from the Cambridge MS. Ef. ii. 38 (or MS. More 690). 
The Cambridge text is a later and longer one than the Lambeth copy 
in this volume, of which Mr Hazlitt did not know, and contains 188 
lines to our 152, the chief expansions being about a man's duty to his 
wife; that he should not be jealous, as that'll make her worse; should 
treat her * as reson ys,' and that he should not beat her. Eesort to 
common women is also condemned ; and the arrangement of the 
stanzas is much altered. Mr Hazlitt gives no reason for his statement 
that '* the success and reputation " of The Wise Man led, possibly at 
no great Interval, to the production of ** How the Goode Wif thaught 
hir Doughter." Imitations do not often beat originals, and Ths Good 
Wife is the better poem.* The text printed by Mr HazUtt looks to 
me like an altered copy of the original poem, with a proverb in the 
first stanza imitated from The Good Wife, Still it is possible that 
the original of The Wise Man was the earlier poem, for in the 
Ltiytd Caton in the Vernon MS. (ab. 1375 A.D.), in Latin, French, 
and English, — about to be edited for us by Mr Brock, — occur these 

lines. 

Now hose wole, he may here 
In Englisch langage. 
How pe wyse m<m tauhte his sone 
pat was of tendere age. 

The Yemon version di£fers widely from the later ones printed by Mr 
Hazlitt and here, but, as their precursor, may have been earlier than 
the original of The Chod Wife, The advice to the boy on hia 
amusements is, 

1 1596 he calls it Hr Hazlitt corrects him. 

* So in 1670-6 it is ladies first, place aux dames, * 1570-1. Bd of Rye. Jounes, 
for his lycense for pryntinge of a ballett of the comly behayyour for Ladyes and 
gentlewomen, iiijd. ' CoUier^e Extract* fnm the Begistere of the StatUmeri Oampany^ 

ii. 15. ' XTijh die Julii, 1576. Ric Jones. Eeceyved of him, for his lycense to 
ymprinte abooke intituled how a younge gentleman may behave him self in all cnm- 
panies, &c. Tiij<t, and a copie.' 



FOREWORDS. IxXJiJ 

Take a Toppe, ^if fou wolt pleye, 
And not at ^e Lasardrye. 

Vernon MS,y foL 310, col. 1, bottom. 

Nos. 13 and 16 are just a page each of Eecipes of dishes men- 
tioned in this volume, to fill up blanks. No. 13 is an English 
ZHetoriey and No. 14 its Latin original ' Clear air and walking make 
good digestion' is a good maxim; * to poor folk do thou no violence,' 
one needed, with its companion 

To visite Je poore do fi diligence, 
And on be needi haue compassioun, 
For good deedis causi]) mir|)e in conscience, 
And in heuene to haue greet possessioun. 

A list of some of the other MSS. of the Poem is given at the foot of 
p. 58. 

After the Recipes No. 16, come Hugh Rhodes's Boke of Nurture, 
and John Russell's Boke of Nurture with its accompanying illustrs^ 
tive notes and Treatises. Each of these Bokes has its separate 
Preface, as beforesaid, and to them I refer the reader ; only advising 
him to read Russell's text. 

As to the Second Part of this volume, which contains a few 

French and Latin Poems on the same subjects of Manners and Meals 

as the English Poems of the First Part, and in illustration of them, I 

am not prepared to contend that French and Latin are Early English, 

but having broken the ice by printing the original Latin of two 

'English Poems in the First Part opposite their translations, and 

being unable to give the Latin original of Stans Puer opposite the 

English versions of it, because there were two of them, I was obliged 

to put this Latin into an Appendix or Part 11. There was another 

short poem in the same MS. that it would have been a shame to 

leave out ; and then came a most obliging and kind tempter in the 

person of Mr Thomas Wright, with a very interesting short volume 

of French Poems on Manners, edited by his late friend M. de Mon- 

merqn6, and with a reference to a Latin Modus Cenandi that might be 

the original of everything of the kind in French and English. What 

could one do but yield and be thankfull However, punishment 

came for one's wandering from the paths of virtue and Early English, 

for that Modus Cenandi turned out to be no end of a plague ; in 



Ixxiv THANKS TO MY HELPERS WITH PART IL 

many places a corrupt text, writteii on very thin vellum, through which 
the ink of one side showed on the other, and both sides had faded. 
The consequence was, that after troubling Mr Brock and Mr T. 
Wright, and getting all that was gettable out of them, I was obliged to 
have recourse to the officers of the MS. Department in the Museum and 
worry them. Mr Scott kindly gave up much time to the difficult places, 
but some of them have beaten even him. Professor Seeley has been good 
enough to give me a literal English translation of the Latin pieces in 
Part XL, but has often had to guess instead of translate. Monsieur 
Michelant, of the Imperial Library, courteously sent me the first 
French Poem in the same Part. Without the help of the gentlemen 
above named I could have made nothing of this Part 11., and to 
them all I am greatly indebted. The ready way in which help is 
given to one, whenever it 13 asked for, is one of the pleasantest 
incidents of one's work. 

It only remains for me to say that the woodcuts at the end 
of the book cost the Society nothing; that the freshness of my 
first interest in the poems which I once hoped to re-produce in 
these Forewords, has become dulled by circumstances and the length 
of time that the volume has been in the press — ^it having been 
set aside (by my desire) for the Ayenbitey &c. ; — and that tha 
intervention of other work has prevented my making the collection 
as complete as I had desired it to be. It is, however, the fullest 
verse one that has yet appeared on its subject, and will serve as the 
beginning of the Society's store of this kind of material.* If we can 
do all the English part of the work, and the Master of the Eolls will 
commission one of his Editors to do the Latin part, we shall then 
get a fairly complete picture of that Early English Home which, 
with all its shortcomings, should be dear to every Englishman now. 

3, St George's Square, N. TT., 
Uh June, 1867. 



^ If any member or reader can refer me to any other verse or prose pieces of like 
kind, unprinted, or that deserve reprinting, I shall be much obliged to him, and 
will try to put them in type. 



Ixxv 



PREFACE TO ERODES. 



Kino Edward the Fourth had in 1461-82 a.d. "Chapleynes and 

Clerkes of the Chapell, XXVI, by the King's choyce or by the deane 

his election or denomination, of men of worthipp, endowed with 

vertuuse morall and speculatiff, as of theyre musike, showing in 

descant, clene voysed, well releesed and pronouncynge, eloquent in 

reding, sufficiaunt in organes pleyyng, and modestiall in all other 

manner of behaving ' **. Such a one, I doubt not, was Hewe Rodes 

of the Kinges Chappell before 1554, the author of tke Boke of 

Nurture first following*, a Devonshire worthy of Henry VIII's time, 

much impressed with the duty of teaching Children, Masters and 

Servants, Young and Old, the way they should go and the good 

manners they should use, a very Polonius in his overflow of saws and 

precepts, but alas a man who had to declare of his acquaintance and 

friends, 

In all my lyfe I could scant fynde 
One wight true and trusty. 

From his care for children, I should like to suppose Rodes to have 
been Master of the young people who in his sovereign's time repre- 
sented Edward's " Children of Chapell, VIII, founden by the King's 
Jewel-house for all thinges that belongeth to thayre apparayle, by 
the handes or oversight of the Deane, or by the maistyr of songes 
assigned to teche them ; which maister is apoynted by the seyd 

> S<n§9ekold Ordinanees, p. 50. > Page 61, below. 



Ixxvi 



PREFACE TO RHODES. 



Dean, and chosen one of the numbyr of the seyd felyshypp of 
chapelL And he to drawe these chyldren, as well in the schoole 
of facet ^, as in songe, organes, or suche other vertuous thinges." 
But th3re seems to be little chance of squeezing our author in 
between William Crane, who we know was Henry the Eighth's 
Master of the Children up to a.d. 1541* (and, no doubt, beyond), and 
Kichard Bowyer, who was their Master in 1548.' We may, however, 
glean something of the position in society, the pay and food, of both 
the Grentlemen and Children of the Chapel in Eodes*s time, and this 
I proceed to do. 

Unluckily there is no full account of the members or duties of 
Henry the Eighth's * Chapell,' in the Ordinances made at Eltham, 
A.D. 1526; but in the table of Wages and Fees, p. 169-70, the 
members are mentioned thus : 

^ Fr. Facet, A Primmer, or Grammer for a yong scholler. Cotgrave. 

s In the Arundel MS. No. 67, Flat clxiii F, the book of Henry YIII.'s House- 
hold Expenses for the 29-33 years of his reign, Crane is still Master. Payments 
for the Children occur at fol. 144, 1. 37 ; fol. 159 b, fol. 164 3, 1. 20; fol. 175, 1. 1 
(*^ in Febr., Anno xxxij* [a.d. 1541] Item for the children of the chapelU, bourd- 
wages, xxTJ s. viij d.") ; and at fol. 164 b, 1. 22, is an entry of a New Year's 
gratuity to Crane of £6. 138. 4d. '^Bemirdes geven on Saterday, New-yeres day 
at Hamptoncourte, Anno xxxij", " [a.d. 1541.] , . . " Item, for Wm. Crane for 
plapnge before the King with the children of the ChappelU, in rewarde, ri. IL 
viiij s. iiij d." Compare Lord Percy's like payments, p. xxi, below. Among these 
'* Newyeres Rewardes " is one that the future editor of our Alexander Romances 
should notice, ** Itetn to Anthony Tote s^ryaunt that brought the king a table of 
the storye of kinge Alexander vj s. viij d." The Christmas and New Tear presents 
to the King, mentioned in this MS. and the one that Nicolas printed, are curious. 

3 To Dr Eimbault's kindness I owe the following list of 

Masters of the Children of the Royal Chapel. 





A.D. 




A.D. 


Henry Abingdon 


. 1467 


Richard Bowyer 


. 1548 


Gilbert Banastre 


. 1482 


Richard Edwards 


. 1561 


William Cornish 


. 1492 


William Hunnis 


. 1567 


Clement Adams 


. 1516 


John Huunis . 


. 1572 


"William Crane 


. 1526 


Nathaniel Giles 


. 1598 



Sir H. Nicholas, in his iVwy JPurse Expenses of Elizabeth of York^ p. 85, col. 
2, says, In the act of Resumption, 13 £dw. IV, Henry Abingdon was protected in 
the enjoyment of 40 marks per annum, which had been granted him in May, 5 
£dw. lY, *' for the fyndyng instruction and goremaunce of the Children of the 
Chapell of oure Housholde." — JRot, Fori. v. 594 ; tL 86. In the act of Resump- 
tion, of the 22 £dw. lY, Gilbert Banestre was protected in the enjoyment of the 
same salary for " their exhibition, instruction and governaunce."— i^t^ yL 200. 



PREFACE TO RHODES. Ixxvii 



Chappell and Vestry. 
The Dean to eate with Mr Treasurer, or Mr Comptroller. 



Gentlemen of the Chapell. 

i. 5. *. 

Master of the Children, for his wages and board-wages 30 

Grospeller, for wages . . . . . • 13 6 8 

EpistoUer 13 6 8 

Verger 20 

Yeomen of the Vestry I 10 

Children of the Chappell, ten 66 13 4 

The Chaplains were not, I assume, boarded in the Court, or at 

the King's cost, and are therefore not mentioned in the list. Besides 

their wj^s, the Gentlemen of the Chappell, no doubt, had regularly 

a New Yeres Rewarde, like the other of the Royal servants. In the 

Arundel MS., No. 67, above cited, we find at fol. 164, back, this 

gift to them in 1541, " Item to y« gentilmew of the chappelle for y^^ 

peynes takinge, xiiij I vj 8. viij d" And in July, 1531, in Henry's 

Household Expenses (ed. Nicolas) is an entry, "Item the same 

[xxvj] daye paied to the dean of the Chapell for the Idnges rewarde 

to the Chapell men xl s" Besides this they would share in the 

annual Chapel Feast, for which these payments appear in Nicolas's 

Hd. Expenses of Hen. VIII. " Item the vj daye [of Aug. 1530] paied 

to the dean of the Chapell for the chapelle feaste xl«. Item the xj 

daye [of Aug. 1532] paied to maister dean of the kinges Chapell the 

olde ordinary rewarde for the Chapell feaste xl «." The allowances of 

the Gentlemen of the Chappell for board-wages are stated in H. Ord.y 

p. 212, in the Increase of Charges in the Household, given in the 

" Additions to the Ordinances made at Eltham." 

" Item, that the Kings Majesties pleasure was declared the 28th 
day of Aprill, in the 36th. yeare of his most gracious Reigne [a.d. 
1544] at St. James's, by the mouth of the Lord Great Master and 
Mr Comptroller, that the Gentlemen of the Chappell, Gospeller, 
Episteller, and Serjeant of the vestry, shall have from the last day 
of ^loxch forward, for their board-wages, everie of them \2d per 



Ixxviii PREFACE TO RHODES. 

diem : and the Yeomen and Groomes of the Vestry, everie of them 
6d -per diem ; and twelve children of the chappeU, everie of them 
28, hy the weeke." 

And in a prior page (H. Ord, p. 208) we are informed that a 

daily mess of meat was subsequently given to them : 

"Item, the King's pleasure was declared by the mouth of the 
Lord Great Master at Green witch, the 14th. day of June, in the 
36th. yeare of his Graces reigne, after the accompt of his household, 
that James Hill and his fellows, Gentlemen Singers, shall have 
dayly from the kitchen, one messe of grosse meate, and from all 
other Officers like Bouche of Court among them as the Physicions ; 
and att every removeing, allowance of a Cart for the carriage of their 
stuff." 

!N"ow the Physicions in 1526 were Doctor Chamber and Doctor 

Butts, and in the list of " The Ordinary of the King's Chamber which 

have Bouche of Court, and also their Dietts within the Court " {H. 

Ord. p. 166), these Physicians are put above * the Apothecary, and The 

three Chirurgions, every of them, and Edmond Harmond, and 

Phillip,' who had the care of the children * ; whence we may infer 

the social rank of our Gentlemen Singers or Gentlemen of the 

ChappeU, — ^that ancient and honourable estate of the realm,* — 

above the Surgeons, Apothecaries, and Barbers, but below the 

Physicians. This assumes that the above-mentioned grant of a 

Bouche of Court equal to that of the Physicians, raised the Gentle- 

^ See S, Ord.y p. 192. Edmond Harman was one of the ** fiarboura" at £20 a 
year (ff. Ord., p. 166 and p. 169). I suppose he had the general household chai*ge 
of the Children ; Crane, the education of them. (The present Children Itye in 
Cheyne Walk, Chelsea, with the Rev. Mr Helmore.) The charge of their Dietts yearly 
was at first, in 1526, Edmond Harmond, Phillip, and the children, £70. 10a. 
O^d., H. Ord.y p. 192; but in 1639 their allowance was increased :— " Item, The 
charge of one messe of meate served to Edmond Harmon, Phillip and the children, 
by the commandment of Mr Comptroller at Hampton Court, 20th. day of June, 
Anno 31, £35. 58. O^d. ;" and again in 1542 "the King's pleasure is declared by 
the mouth of Mr Phillip Hobby (? Sir Phillip Hobby, Gentleman Usher of the 
Privy Chamber, p. 169) unto the Lord Great Master, the 17th day of January, in 
the 33<i yeare of his reigne at Westminster, that the children that be in the keeping 
of Philip and Edmond Harmon to be served with one messe of meate, like unto the 
other messe they had before." S. Ord., p. 208. 

2 Mr Thorns mentions among its members, Richard Farrant, Thomas Bird 
(father of the celebrated William Bird), Thomas Tallis, William Hynnes, Henry 
Lawes (who composed the Coronation Anthem, and was the friend of Milton), 
Thomas Purcell, the uncle of the great composer, &c,—Book of the Court [from 
Hawkins]. 



PREFACE TO RHODES. 



Ixxix 



men of the Chappell nearly to the Physicians* leveL As to their 
dinner, I assume from the way in which ' messe of meate ' is used in 
the Ordinances, p. 185, that the * one messe of grosse meate* allowed 
to the Gentlemen of the Chappell, meant nearly the same as the ' Diett 
for the Phisitions and Chirurgions* given at p. 178 of Household 
OrdinajiceSy which cost hy the yeare, everie messe, £66. Ts. 6j5d. 
for the Kings Highnesse and his side (p. 192), or £66. 7s. 6-^ for 
the Queenes Grace and her side (p. 193). Here it is : 

''Sonday, Tuesday, Thursday, Monday, and Wednesday. 
Dynner, Souper. 

Bread, Cheate) 



and Manchet j 



2 



2 4 



d 
2 



1 
1 



Ale, 

Wyne, 

Beef, 

Mutton, 

Veale, 

Pigg, Qoose, 1 

Baked Meate, 1 

Lambe, Chick, 1 

Fruite, 1 

Batter, 



2 gal.' 3 

qrfH 
1 mess 6 



2 gal' 3 
qrt' 1| 
1 mess 6 



2 
3 
2 
5 
3 
2 
1 



1 
1 
1 

I 
1 



2 
3 
2 

3 
2 
1 



Summe of the diner 4s 4 

Fryday Dynner. 



Cheat and 
Manchett 
Ale 
Wyne 
Lyng 
Place 
Haddock 
Smelts 
Fruit 



! 



2 gall' 
qrt' 
mess 



4s0 

d 

2 

3 
li 

2 
5 
3 
2 
2 



Bread,Gheat \ 

& Manchett ) 
Ale 
Wyne 
Mutton, 

boyled 

and rost 
Henne,Lambe 1 
Doulcetts 1 
Chickens or"| 

Pegions J 
Fruite 1 



i 

2 
3 



2gaU' 
qrt' 

2 

messes 6 

2 
3 

2 

2 



d 
4 2 

2 gaU* 3 
qrt' H 

2 

messes 6 



1 
1 



3 
2 



Sum of tlie supper 

Saturday Dinner. 



3s. 8d. 



d 

4 2 

2 gall' 3 
qrt' 
mess 2 
5 
3 
2 
2 



4 

2gaU' 
li qrt' 
1 mess 
1 
1 
1 
1 



Sum 201 

By the day 3 7J 

Sum { By the weeke 1 5 5^ 

By the yeare 66 1 5 J 



20^ 



d 

2 
3 

2 
5 
3 
2 
2 

20i 



IXXX PREFACE TO RHODES. 

The Queen's Phisition and Apothecary, one mease of the like 
Fare." 

The only distinction between the Phisition and Chimrgionhere is, 
that the former got five penny-worth of Baked Meate or Pie at dinner, 
and three pen'orth of Doulcetts (see "Russell's Boke of Nurture, 
p. 146) at supper, more than the Chirurgion. Kthen the Grentlemen of 
the Chappell came between the two, how would the Clerk to the 
Kychyn mark the difference, I wonder 1 Give them Conies, 1 mess, 2id. 
(H, Ord,, p. 181), or Egges, 2id. (p. 178), for their voices at the one; 
or an extra quart of wine or gallon of Ale, 1^. {ib. p. 191) at the 
other, to cheer them up before going to bed 1 Who shall say 1 

The (jentlemen-of-the-Chappeirs * Bouche of Court as the Phy- 
sicians ' from the officers other than those of the Kitchen, is stated at 
p. 163-4 of Household Ordinances: 

"Gentlemen Ushers op the Privy Chamber, and Gentlemen 
Ushers dayly wayters ; for the King and the Quebnes Phisi- 

CIONS, AND ClERKES OF THE SpICERY. 

"Every of them being lodged within the court, after supper, one 
chet loafe, one gallon of ale, one quart of wyne \ and from the last day 
of October unto the first day of Aprill, by the weeke two lynckes, by 
the day one sise, four white lights, four talshidea, four faggotts, 

and and from the last day of March unto the first day of 

November, to have the moyety of the said waxe, white lights, wood 
and coales ; which amounteth to the sume of viiiZ. v s. ob. q.^ 

This Bouche of Court, the reader will perceive, was a daily allow- 
ance of lights and fuel, and also of bread, ale, and wine, for a nightcap 
before going to bed, and perhaps for breakfast next morning. That 
some extra food was wanted will be acknowledged when the times 
for dinner and supper are stated. H, Ord., p. 151, 

" DYNNER AND SUPPER IN THE HALL TO BE KEPT AT HOWRES CERTAINEL 

Cap. 44 . . it is ordeyned that the household, when the hall is 
kept, shall observe times certeyne for dynner and souper, as followeth ; 
that is to say, the first dynner in eating dayes to begin at tenn of the 

^ At p. 210 of Hmuehold Ordinaneetf seemingly in the year 1544, the cost of the 
Surgeons* Bouche is entered, ^< Item, the Bouch of Court served for two Surgeons, 
everie of them at £6 ISs. O^d. by the yeare, p^ maudaium Domini Thesaurartt^ 21® 
die Martu £13 6s. Id." This would give a Gentleman of the Chappell about £1. 
128. a year more than a Surgeon. The Apothecary's Bouche in 1626 was only iiii/, 
xiis. id. ob. q. (iT. Ord.^ p, 163). 



PBEFAOB TO RHODES. Ixxxi 

clock, or somewhat afore ; and the first supper at foure of the clock 
on worke dayes ; and on holy dayes, the first dynner to begin after 
the King be gone to the chappel, to his divine service, and likewise 
at souper. 

Cap. 45. And at such time as the Kings hall is not kept, the ser- 
vice for dynner, as well in the King and Queen's chambers, as in all 
other places of the house where any allowance of meate is had, to 
be obsisrved at one certaine and convenient houre ; that is to say, for 
dinner at eleven of the clock before noone, or neere thereupon, and 
for sapper at six of the clock at afternoon, or neere thereupon j not 
tarrying nor digressing from this order for the Kings highnesse, nor 
for such as shall attend upon his Grace in his disporte or otherwise." 

Evidently, if Hewe Rodes followed his own precept to rise at six 
of the clock (p. 72, L 61, below), he would need some of his bonche 
of Court before ten or eleven, to stay his stomach. 

This, then, is all I can find with regard to the status and diet of 
onr author. Of the duties of him and his fellow-gentlemen, the 
Ordinances give us only the following information, p. 160, that 
whenever the King 

"shall lye in his castle of Windsor, liis mannors of Bewlye, 
Bichmond, and Hampton Court, Green witch, Eltham or Woodstock, 
his hall shall be ordiDarily kept and contynued ; unlesse than for any 
reasonable cause by his Grace to be approved, it shall be thought 
otherwise expedient ; and at all such tymes of keeping the said hall, 
the King's noble chappell to be kept in the same place, for the 
administration of divine service, as apperteyneth. 

" Cap. 78. Nevertheless, forasmuch as it is goodly and honourable, 
that there should be allwayes some divine service in the court, 
"whereby men might be elected unto the devotion, and that it would 
not only be a great annoyance, but also excessive labour, travell, 
charge, and paine, to have the King's whole chappell continually 
attendant upon his person, when his grace keepeth not his hall, and 
specially in rideing journeys and progresses; it is for the better 
administration of divine service onleyned, that the master of the 
children, and six men, with some officers of the vestry, shall give 
their continuall attendance in the King's court, and dayly, in 
absence of the residue of the chappell, to have a masse of our Lady 
before noone, and on simdayes and holydayes, masse of the day, 
besides our Lady masse, and an antheme in the aftemoone ; for which 
purpose no great carriage, either of vestments or bookes, shall be 
required; the said persons to have allowance of board wages, or 
bouch of court, with lodgeing in or neere to the same, and convenient 
carriage ; as in such case hath been accustomed." 

Assuming, then, as certain, that the business of Hewe'Eodes's 

g 



IxXXii PREFACE TO RHODES. 

life was to assist in " the administration of divine service," * and as 
possible, that he further taught the ten Children of the Chappell 
their grammar, "songc, organes, or suche other vertuous thinges,** 
we need not wonder that he who had experienced the change from 
Devonshire manners to courtly ones should have desired to impress on 
others the lessons he had learnt himself, and lay down, at parson 
length, the maxims that he had drawn from his own experience and 
the sayings of the wise men of the Court. What manner of man he him- 
self was he does not tell us. The only allusion he makes to his art is 

A tendahle seruauwt standeth in fauour / for his auawntage 
Promoted shal he he in offyce or fe / the easyer to lyue in age 
Vse honest pastynne, talke or synge, or sortie instrumeni vse 
Though they be thy betters, they wyll not the refuse. 

"Whether ho was in youth a Chorister, impressed for the service * 

and forced from his home and school like Tusser was — 

There for my voice, I must (no choice) 
Away of force, like posting horse ; 
For sundry men had placards then 
Such child to take. 
Tusser, Authoi^a Lifa^ in Thoms's Booh of the Court, p. 381 

(from Hawkins, ii. 626, iii 466) — 

we do not know; nor does he tell us whether as a child of the 

' 1 It was not until the reign of Henry VIII. that the duties of the Chapel Royal 
were performed at St James's Palace, which was first huilt hy that monarch. Thorns. 

* See Henry VI.'s precept dated 1454, authorizing this measure, in Rymer's 
Foedcra, says Thorns. (Hawkins refers to Strype, Mem, JSeel., v. ii. p. 538-9, for 
the authority to seize children in Edward the Sixth's time.) 

1 find the following as to how Henry YI. supplied himself with Minstrels. 

J)e MinUirallis propter Solatium Itcgis providefidia {/l.v, 1456, an 84 H. 6, Pat. 
34, H. 6. m. 19). 

Rex, dilectis sibi Waltero Ealyday, Roberto Marshall^ WUliclmo Wykcs^ ^ 
Johanni Clyffe^ Salutem. 

Sciatis qudd Nos, considerantes qualiter quidam Ministralli nostri jam tardb 
Viam univcrsas Carnis sunt ingressi, aliisque, loco ipsorum, propter Solatium nostnim 
do necesse indigcntes, Assignavimus vos, conjuuctim & divisira, ad quosdam Pueros, 
Membris Naturalibus Elegantes, in Arte Miuistrcllatus instructos, ubieunqtie in- 
venire poterini, t^m infra Libcrtites, qukm extra, Capiendutn, & in Servitio nostro 
ad Vadia nostra Ponendum ; 

Et ideo Yobis Mandamus qu5d circa Prsemissa diligentcr intendatis, ac ea fuciatis 
& exequamini in forra& pnndicta . . Teste Rege apud Westmonasteriutn decimo d;o 
Martis. Rymer, xi. 375. 

Edward IV. formed his minstrels into a Fraternity or Gild. See the Patent in 
Rymer, xi. 642-4. 



PREFACE TO RHODES. Ixxxiu 

cbappell he was whipped for any Prince's faults, as the custom was K 
Was he ever snuhhed hy the Dean, I wonder, who had " all cor- 
rections of chapell-men in moHhus et sciencia — ^reserved some cases 
to the Steward and coxmtyng house*"? — Was he ever found "de- 
fectife or disohedient, and putt oute of wages " on a Friday when the 
Dean " kept a conventicle with all the chapell-men, and there rehersed 
their fautes and appointed the remedies*?" Did he prove one of 
** the rascals and hangers upon thys courte," who were to " he sought 
oute and avoyded from eueiy office monethly ' ? " Far he it from us 
to helieve so. He was never sent to the Marchalcye Prison hy sus- 
pection (we may he sure), " as a theefe or outrageous royatour, or for 
muche hauntyng sclaunderous places, companyes and other *," nor was 
he "knowen for a commyn dayly drunkyn man": he was not of 
the " pykers, malefactours of outward people or inward," nor did he 
use " to swere customahly hy Goddes hody, or any of his other partes 
uureverently, against the Kinges vertuous disposition and the law 
of God," hut lived as a man of worship, endowed with moral virtues, 
as hy his ordinance he was hound to do. If he had the chance 
of playing at " pryckis " with his hurly Sovereign like William 
Crane, the Master of the Children, up to (and perhaps heyond) 1541, 
had, no douht he took the chance, and tried .to win £7. 2s. 6d. of 
his King as Master Crane succeeded in doing ^ ; hut for any such 

1 Barnet {Own Times, i. 244, says Hawkins, iii. 2d2-3] mentionB Barnaby 
Fitzpatric as whipping-boy to Prince Edward, and a Mr Murray as whipping-boy 
to Charles I. The working of the process is well explained by an old comedy of 
Christopher Tye's, quoted by Mr Thorns (from Hawkins) : 

Cranmer : So, sir, this policie was well devised. 

Since he was whipped thus for the Prince's faults, 
His grace hath got more knowledge in a month 
Than he attained in a year before: 
For still the fearful hoy^ to save his hreeehf 
Both hourlye haunt him wheresoe'er he goes. 
2^e : 'Tis true, my lord, and now the Prince perceives it ; 
As loath to see him punished for his faults, 
Plies it on purpose to redeeme the boy, &c. 

• Household Ordinances, p. 49. » lb. p. 66. * lb. p. 67. 

* The last daye [of June, 1532] paied to William Crane for so moche money as 
he wanne of the kingt« grace at pryek», xix Angelliv, in money currant vij li. ij s. 
yjd. Nicolas's Prtpy Furse Expenses of Henry VIIL from Nov. 1629 to Dec. 1532 

. &2 



Ixxxiv PREFACE TO RHODES. 

details about him we must wait for the publication of a later House- 
hold Book of Henry VIII. 's or an earlier one of Edward VI.'s than I 
have been able to find, and meantime judge Hewe Eodes from hiB book. 
He seems to me a regular sobersides, with little or no fun or humour ^ 
in him, not a man to make fast friends, though eminently respectable, 
and with an eye to the main chance, if we may judge from his 
directions to The Wayting Servant as to what company he should 
keep : 



Petit's edition. 
For your promocyon resort to such 

as ye may take avau»tage, 
Among ge»tylme» for rewardes, 

to gentylwomeff for manage 
Se your eye be indyfferent, 

amonge women toat be fayre 
And tell them storyes of loue, 

& 80 to you they wyll repayre ; 
Suche pastymes somtyme 

doth many men auaunce 
In way of maryage, 

and your good name it wyl enhaunce. 



Ed. of 1577. 
For your preferment resorte 

to sach as may you vauntage: 
Among Gentlemen, for their rewards, 

to honest dames for maryage. 
See your eye he indifferent 

among women that be fayre ; 
And if they be honest, to them 

boldly then doe repayre ; 
Honest qualiityes and gentle 

many men doth aduaunce 
To good maryages, trust me, 

and their names doth inhaunce. 



There you have the man, I fancy. Propriety and Deportment, 
Honesty and Gontleness, pay ; therefore pursue them. But there is 
much else in the book that may be urged against this view of the 
author, as the reader wiU find if he reads the book, though still on 
me the former impression remains. It is confirmed, too, by the 

(ed. 1827), p. 227. I take this to be, not priek-aongf but the pricks for shooting, 
which Ascham testifies in his ToxophUua that Henry VIII. practised: 

*' Again, there is another thing, which above all other doth move me, not only 
to love shooting, to praise shooting, to exhort all other to shooting, but also to use 
shooting myself; and that is our King [Henry the JEighth} his most royal purpose 
and will, which in all his statutes [3 Henry VIII., cap. 3; 6 Hen. VIII., cap. 3; 
25 Hen. VIII., cap. 17 ; 33 Hen. VIII., cap. 9] generally doth command men, and 
with Ms own mouth most gently doth exhort men, and by his great gifts and rewards 
greatly doth encourage men, and with his most princely example very often doth 
provoke all other men to the same." ed. Giles, 1865, p. 25. 

(Cp. 20th March, 1531. Paid to George Coton, for vii shott lost by the Kings 
grace unto him at Totthill, at 6s. 8d. the shotte, xlvj s. viij d., and the other entries 
from Nicolas, in Hansard's Archery, p. 40.) See Note at end of Preface. 
^ May not he be allowed some for lines 441-4, p. 36, 

A wonderfuU thing this is to doe, 

and easy to be done : 
To leaue pleasure, and kecpe sylence, 
and to follow reason. 



PREFACE TO RHODES. IxXXV 

" fulsome panegyric " on Queen Mary, on which Warton remarks .in 
his notice of Kodes's other poem. Warton (iii 266, ed. 1840) says 
of Bodes, 

" In the foUowing reign of Mary, the same poet printed a poem 
consisting of thirty-six octave stanzas, entitled, *The Song of the 
Chyld-Bysshop, as it was songe before the queenes maiestie in her 
piiuie chamber at her manour of saynt James in the flfeeldes on saynt 
Nicholas day and Innocents day this yeare nowe present, by the 
cliylde bysshope of Poules churche with his company. Londini, in* 
secLLbus Johannis Cawood, typographi reginsB, 1555. Cum privilegio, 
Ac.* By admitting this spectacle into her presence, it appears that 
her majesty's bigotry condescended to give countenance to the most 
ridiculous and unmeaning ceremony of the Eoman rituaL As to the 
song itself, it is a fulsome panegyric on the queen's devotion, in 
-which she is compared to Judith, Esther, the queen of Sheba, and 
the virgin Mary." 

One good quality Bodes certainly had, modesty as to his poetical 

powers. He says, 

I am full blynde in Poets Arte, 

thereof I can no skill : 
All elloquence I put apart, 

foUowing myne owne wylL 
Corrupt in speeche, be sure, am I, 

my breefes from longes to know, 
And bom and bred in Deuonshyre to, 

as playne my tearmes doe show. 
Take the best, and leaue the worst, 

of truth I meane no yll : 
The matter is not curyous, 

the intent good, marke it welL 
Pardon I aske if I offend 

thus boldly now to wryte : 
To Mayster, seruaunt, yong and olde, 

I doe this booke commit, 
Bequyring friendly youth and age, 

if any doe amis. 
For to refourme and hate abuse, 

and mend where neede there is. 

I In quarto, bL lett (Warton), a.d. 1655. See in Dibdin's Ames, yoI. iy. p. 
394. Ritson obserYes on this statement of Warton's as to Rodes's poem, that 
it ** seems to require some farther authority," Bibliogr. Poetry p. 315, and in a note 
says, ** Herbert, in p. 1794, asserts a copy of this book to be in possession of 
' Francis Douce, esquire ; ' who never had, nor saw, nor (except from what Warton 
■ays) ever heai'd of such a thing." Modem inquirers after this poem are in Deuce's 



IxXXVi FREFAOE TO RHODES. 

The Book of Nurture consists of four Parts, whereof the second 
is divided into two. First comes an exhortation to Parents and 
Masters to bring up their Children vertuously, and keep their Serv- 
ants and household in good order. Second : are, 1. The Maner of Seru- 
ing a Knight, Squyre, or Gentleman at Meals ; 2. How to order your 
Maysters Chamber at night to bedwarde ^when he goes to bed). 
Third comes the expansion of 8tan8 Puer ad Memaniy turned into 
" The Booke of Nurture and Schole of good Maners for Man and 
for Chylde." Fourth comes the most elaborate part of the book, 
directions "For the Wayting Seruaunt," pp. 82-108, comprising 
TOft TiTna and advice not only for him, but for the world of men in 
general Into this, the edition of 1577 (which is printed here) has 
introduced " The Rule of Honest Lining," two pages and a half of 
prose maxims not differing much from those that have preceded 
them in verse. I do not mean to pick out the plums from the text^ 
or even point to where they are, because I feel sure that no Member 
is so lost to all sense of propriety as not to read this volume through 
from beginning to end. If there shoxdd be one in that unhappy 
condition, let him beg his dearest friend to give him a dose of 
Wilyam BuUeyn's boxyng & neckweede, according to the prescrip- 
tion following the notes to Bussell, and, being smoked, he will be 
cured. 

Hewe Bodes's Boke of Nurture was printed at least five times 
in early days. First by Thomas Petit, in small 8vo, bl. lett., before 
1664, for he printed no book after that date * : secondly by Thomas 
Colwell, bl. L, who printed from 1661 to 1576 ; thirdly (as I suppose) 
with somewhat more modem spelling, by Abraham Veale, bL L, who 
printed from 1651 to 1686 ; fourthly by Thomas East, in oblong 

case ; neither Mr J. Googh Nichols, who has long been hunting for Boy-Bishop 
material, Dr Rimbault, Mr W. C. Hazlitt, nor any other likely men whom I have 
asked, have ever heard of it. Warton mnst of course have seen a copy. Who will 
tell mo where one is ? 

> Mr Payne Collier thinks that another edition is included in the following entry 
on the Register of the Stationers' Company : 

" To John Kynge, to prynte these bokes folowynge ; that ys to saye, a Jeste of 
syr gawene; the boke of Carvynge and sewynge; syr lamwell; the boke of 
Cokerye ; the boke of nurture fir tnena servauntea," Extracts, p. 15 (Shakspere Soo., 
1848). 



PREFACE TO RHODES. IxXXvil 

4to, in 1568 ; fifthly by H. Jackson, in small 8vo, in 1677. (See 
T\^arton, v. iii. p. 265, ed. 1840 ; Eitson's BibL Poet., p. 314-15 ; 
and Biydges's Censura Literaria.) Of the first edition only one copy 
is known to the Librarians, collectors, and friends of whom I have 
made inquiry. It is in the Bodleian, is without a title, and two leaves 
of the text are gone. From its heading " The boke of Nurture for 
men, seruauntes and chyldren, with Stans puer ad mensam, netoly 
corrected^ very vtyle and necessary vnto all youth," we might con- 
clade that this supposed first edition was only a late one ; but it is 
possible that the newly corrected applies only to the Stans puer ad 
memamj an old poem which Rodes has newly corrected. Of the 
second and third editions the Eev. Mr Corser, of Stand Rectory, near 
Manchester, has unique copies, which he has kindly lent me, just as 
these sheets are going to press, and of which, if the variations are 
important, I shall give collations at the end of these Prefaces. Of 
the fourth edition I have not been able to hear of a copy. Of the fifth 
there are at least two copies known, one in the British Museum, and 
the other among Malone's books in the Bodleian. I had at first 
resolved to print the texts of the first and fifth editions (the only 
ones then known to me) opposite one another, so as to bring out 
their differences fully, leaving blanks for the missing leaves of the 
first edition, to be filled up whenever these leaves should turn up 
and I could reprint them ; but on the strong remonstrance of Mr 
H. B. Wheatley against reprinting an imperfect printed book, I 
gave up the plan, and have printed only the 1577 text from the 
British Museum copy, adding the principal variations of the first 
edition at the end. Of this first edition I hope to hear of a complete 
copy soon, and to reprint it directly afterwards. Had I known of 
Mr Gorser^s uniques a year ago, I should have reprinted one instead 
of Jackson's edition. 

Some of the alterations from the earlier text are worth notice as 
signs of the times. Thus the leaving out by Colwell, Veale, and 
Jackson, of these lines 

** To helpe a preest to say masse / it is greatly to be comTnended 
Thou takest on hande an auTtgels office / the preest to attend " 

of the first edition's injunctions for conduct in church, marks the 



n 



IxXXViii PREFACE TO RHODES. 

Eefomiatioii. Why the early true etatement in Petit's edition, 

"Pore men hjiMnU, and gentylmen deceytful in lyuynge 
The gredy myndes of rulers / hath caused blode shedynge 

should have been altered to the later goody 

" Poore men faythfuU and ohedyent in theyr lyuynge 
Voydeth rebellion and bloud shedynge" {G6lweU)y 

*' Poore men faithful and obedient in their lining 
Voideth rebellion and blood sheding" (FieoZe), 

" Pore men must be faythfull, 
and obedient in lyuing, 
Auoyding all rebellyon 

and rygorous bloodshedding " (Jackson), 

I cannot suggest, unless the later editors, and specially he of 1577, 
'were more of Tories than Eodes. The minor alterations in this 1577 
edition are so many that they must have been made, I fancy, by 
another hand after Bodes's death. Of the lines changed we may 
note Petit's 

" With moch flesshe & lytel bread / fyl not thy mouth lyke a barge," 
" With much meate fyll not thy mouth like a barge" (CklweU), 
^* With much meat fil not thy mouth like a barge " (FeaZe), 

altered and weakened to 

" Cram not thy mouth to full, ne yet 
thy stomack ouercharge." — ^1. 271-2. 

Also 

'^ Lyght in speche and slowe in dedes / yuys it is great shame " 

let down to 

" Slow in good deeds is great shame " (Coltvell), 

** Slow is good deeds is great shame " (VecUe)^ 

" But to be slow in godly deedes 

increaseth a mans shame " (Jackson), 

But in 1. 539-40 the sentiment of the later text 

** But in redressing things amis, 
thou highly God shalt please " 

is a decided improvement on the selfish ease of the earlier 

"The lesse thou medlest / the better shalt thou please" (Petit) ; 



PREFACE TO BHODES. IxXXix 



cc 



In leaate medlynge thou shalt most please ** {Colwell)^ 
In least medling thou shalt moste please " (VecUe), 

and the same may be said of the last lines of the 1557 edition, 

" He that doth haxmt to wysdoms howre 

beside those of the earlier texts, 

•* He that wyll not for wysdome seke / is not his owne frende " (Petit), 
** He that seketh wisdom, is his owne frende " (Colwdl), 
** He that seeketh Wisdome is his owne freend " (Veale). 

If the present lepnnt should call forth a copy of East's edition 
of 1568, which must surely be now standing on the shelves of some 
library, we shall know perhaps whether Eodes is answerable for the 
alterations of the original text. Of the 1577 edition I have only 
altered the stops, and the printer has numbered the lines. The 
sidenotes are added for convenience sake, not because the text is 
hard enough to want a running commentary. 

Comparing it with the earlier and later treatises on like subjects, 
two points of manners may be noticed ; first, that handkerchiefs for 
the nose were then coming into vogue ; and secondly, that tooth- 
picks had not appeared. How to blow the nose in a genteel way 
before company without a handkerchief, was evidently a difficulty 
with early writers on deportment. They could only treat it as so 
many authors and editors have done since with their difficulties, 
— shirk it as if they knew all about it, and trust to their readers' 
ingenuity. The writer of the Poem on Freemasonry that Mr HaUi- 
well has printed from MS. BibL Eeg. 17 A- says, p. 38, L 711-12, 

From spyttynge and snyf tynge kepe fe also, 
By privy avoydans let hyt go, 

that is, get on as well as you can. At dinner also he teUs his pupil, 

L 743-6, 

Kepe Jyn hondes fayr and wel 
Fram fowle smogyng^ of J)y towel ; 
peron ^ou schdlt not \y nese snytey 
Ny at fe mete Jy tojJe Jou pyke. 

The Boke of Curtosye, ab. 1460, L 89-92, says, 

Yf Yj nose ])ou dense, as may be-fsdle, 
Loke ]>y honde \ou dense wythe-alle 3 



ZC PREFACE TO RHODES. 

Priudy with skyrt do hit away, 

Oper ellis thuighe thi tepet pat is so gay. 

John Eussell, likewise handkerchiefless, only says, L 283-4, 

Pike not youw nose / ne J)at hit be droppynge wit^ no peerlis derc, 
SnyfF nor snitynge hyt to lowd / lest youre souerayne hit here. 

But by Rodes's time the handkerchief had partially come in', as 
witness lines 261-4, 

Blow not your nose on the napkin 

where you should wype your hande, 
But dense it in your handkercher, 

then passe you not your hand ; * 

though the earlier method was still permitted, for we read at linos 

289-92, 

If thou must spit, or blow thy nose, 

keepe thou it out of sight. 
Let it not lye vpon the ground, 

but treade thou it out right* 

The Schoole of Vertus, a.d. 1577, directs the nose to be deaned 
on a napkin once a day in the morning ^, like the shoes and teeth : 

A napkin se that thou haue in redines 
Thy nose to dense from all fylthynes. 

Last comes The Booke of Demeanofy L 45-52, in a.d. 1619, 

Nor imitate with Socrates, 
to wipe thy snivelled nose 

^ Compare one of Henry YIII/s New Tear's gifts, ano xxxij, " Item, to y« 
Vingea laand^ that gayey« king handkerchers xxs." MS. Arundel No. 97, fol. 167, 
back. The Duke of Somerset in the Tower, asks to have aUowed him, among other 
things <<ij. night kerchers ; item Yj. hande kerchers.'' The Duchess asks also for 
" YJ. hand kerchers" hesides '^ yj. froc kerchers, whereof iij. fyne/' EUis, Letters^ 
series II. y. ii. p. 215. 

* Blow not your nose in y« napkyn, where ye wype your hande 

Clense it in your handkercher, then passe ye not your bande. (Fetit, &c.) 
' If thou muste spyt or blowe thy nose / kepe it out of syght 
Let it not lye on the grounde / but treade it out ryght. {Fetit^ &c.) 
And yet in a.d. 1344-5 monks were expected to haye handkerchiefs. Prof. Morley, 
abstracting chap. 17 of Richard de Bury*s Philobiblon, says, <' Perhaps you will see 
a bi^l-necked youth sitting sluggishly at his study, and when the cold is sharp at 
winter-time, and his wet nose, at the pinch of frost, runs into drops, he does not con- 
descend to use his handkerchief till he has wetted the book beneath with its yile 
dew. I would giye such a one, instead of a book, a cobbler's apron." — English 
Writers, yoL ii. Pt. I. p. 55, The continuation of the passage should be read. 

* Compare Rhodes, p. 73, L 70. 



PREFACE TO BHODEB. Xci 

Vpon thy cap, as he would doe, 

nor yet upon thy clothes. 
But keepe it clene with handkerchiffe, 

provided for the same, 
Not with thy fingers or thy sleeve, 

therein thou art too blame ; 

but stiU * filthiness or ordure ' may be cast on the floor so that it be 
trodden out with haste, L 105-8. Haw not we cause to be grateful 
to Cotton and Silk ? 

With regard to the picking of teeth ', some of the English and 
French books, like the Freemasonry one above, and the Boke of 
Curtasye, forbid it to be done at all at meals : 

Clense not thi tethe at mete sittande, 

With knyfe ne stre, styk ne wande. — B, of G. L 93. 

Others only forbid picking with the knyfe, as The LytyUe Childrenea 
Jjyta Boke, L 39, 

Pyke not fi tethe with thy knyfe. 

It was reserved for Rodes or his 1577 editor to reconcile the difficulties 
by a stroke of genius. 

Pick not thy teeth with thy Knyfe 

nor with thy fyngers ende ; 
But take a stick 

(I hope the reader will think of a walking-stick as I did on first reading 

the passage) 

or some dene thyng, 
then doe you not oflfende, 1. 248.^ 

Other details I must leave the reader to notice for himself. 

3, St George's Square, N. W. 
1st July, 1867. 



P.S. By way of farther illustrating the status, pay, and work 
of the Crentlemen and Children of tlie King's Chapel in Henry the 
Eighth's time, I add as an Appendix to this Preface, all the particu- 

1 See the note at tlie end of Bodes Various Readings. 
* Pyeke not thy tethe with thy knyfe / nor fjmger ende 
Bat wt a stycke or some deane tiiyng / then do ye not offend. {Petit, &c.) 



XCU PREFACE TO BHODE& 

lars of the Earl of Northumberland's Chapel-Gentlemen and Children 
that I can gather from his Household Books as published by Bishop 
Percy, and afterwards reprinted. The particulars are put under 
these heads : — 

I. The Number of the Gentlemen and Children. 
11. Their Food, Lights, and Fuel. 

III. The Washing of their Surplices. 

IV. Their Wages. 

V. Their Beds, and the Carts for removing them. 
VI. Their Extra Gratuities for Acting Plays, Ac. 
Vn. The Kinds of Voices or Singers. 

VIIL Their Arrangement and Days of Attendance, and their Keep- 
ing of the * Orgayns.' 
The bits about their sleeping two and three in a bed (p. xix), acting 
Miracle-Plays (p. xx), playing on the * Orgaynes * (p. xxv), are in- 
teresting, as well as the allusion to the Boy-Bishop (p. xx). 
* 

THE FIFTH EARL OF NORTHUMBERLAND'S GENTLEMEN 

AND OHHiDRBN OF THE CHAPEL: 

2 AND 8 HBNRT YUI., A.D. 1510-11, 

i . . I. "In the iij*** Yere of the reigne of oure Sovereigne Lord Kyngo 
Henry the viij*^" Algernon Percy, fifth Earl of Northumberland, 
had, "daily abidynge in his Household," Gentillmen of the Chapell — 
ix, Viz. The Maister of the Childre j — Tenors y — Countertenors 
iiij — ^The Pistoler j — and oone for the Orgayns. Childer of the 
Chapell — YJ, {Percy or Northumberland Household Booh, p. 44.) 
This was a variation on the number given in p. 40, for there we find 

Gentyllmen and Childefyn of the ChapelL 

Item Gentyllmen and Childryn of the Chapell xiiij Viz. 
Gentillmen of the Chapell viij Viz. ij Bassys — ^ij Tenors — and iiij 
Countertenours — ^Yomen or Grome of the Vestry j — Childeryn of 
the Chapell v Viz. ij TribiUs and iij Meanys [Altos] = xiiij* 

II. Their food was, for *Braikfast* daily every Lent, on * Sonday, 

Tewisday, Thursday and Setterday.* 

Braikfast for ij Meas of Gentilmen o'th' Chapel, and a Meas of 
Childeryn. 



• •■ 



PREFACE TO RHODES. XCUl 

Item iij L00& of Brede, a GraUon dimid of Bere, and iij Feces of 
SaltfiBcb, or ells iiy White Herryng to a Meas — ^iij. (ib. p. 74.) 

At p. 75, in the ^ Ordre of all suche Braikfasts that shal he 
loT^able dayly in my Lordis hous thorowte the yere,' * as well on 
Flesche Days as Fysch Days, in Lent and out of Lent.' * Begyn- 
nynge on Sonday the second day of Februaiy, which was Candlemas 
day last past. Li the secund Yere of the reign of our Sovereigne 
Liorde Kyng Henry the viij*^ * the allowance is : 

Braikfasts for ij Meas of Gentylmen o' th' Chapel, and a Meas of 
Cliilder. 

Item iij Loif of Houshold Breid, a Gallon dimid of Bere, and iij 
Peces of Beif boyled — j. 

Among " Braikfastis of Fysche . . allowid " them " on Setter- 
days . . oute of Lent>" at the same date, are 

Braikfasts for ij Meas of Gentilmen o' th' Chapel and a Meas of 
Childer. 

Item iij Loifs of Houshold Breid, a Gallon dimid of Bere, and 
a Pece of Saltfische — j. 

Their "service of Meat and Drynk to be servyd upon the 
Scamlynge Days ' in Lent Yerely, as to say, Mondays and Setter- 
days," was for " X Gentilmen and yj Childre of the Chapell == iiy 
Measse." 

Service for G^ntyllmen and Childeryn o* th' Chapell. 

Item to every Meas a Loof of Breide, a Potell of Bere, ii\j White 
Herrynge, and a Dysch of Stokfisch = viij Dyschis. 

On Rogation Days, from Tuesday May 27, 3 Heniy VIII, the 
Meat and Drink allowed them for supper was : 

Service for iiij Mease of Grentyllmen and Childre of the Chapell 
at Suppar upon Tewisday in the Eogacion days : Furst, x Gentyl- 
men and yj Childre of the Chapell — iiij Meas. 

Item to every Meas a Loof of Bred, a Pottell of Bere, Half a 
Dysch of Buttre, and a Pece of Saltt-fysche — ^viiij Dyschis. 

Their daily extras, or *' Lyverays of Breid, Bere, Wyne, White- 
Lights and Wax," were "for Grentyllmen of the Chapell and 
Childer . . a Loof of Houshold Breid, a Gallon of Bere, and iij 
White Lyghtts." 

> SeanMing'Days, Days in Lent, when no regular meals were prorided, bat 
erety one scrambled and shifted for himself as he could. (Percy in) HaUiwelPa 
Olon. 






,-^''^ 
*.■'' 










»*M^ 



»nf- 



■1. 



n-' 



h 



*", 






V- 



i> t?' 3^ -^ ^^ ' 



'-'ih 



*i' 



' ^f.,. 



«»., 



r ^? 



i^ ti,, 



' Hi.. 




'«Ci. 7 



■•Jt> 



ii. 



A, 



^•- ^. 



'^t: 



**<f\ 



// 






/>.. 



»< 



. ./ .. 



^■^♦■, 









*h, . 



'./ / 



^Uiik 






•" o.. ' ""■'•'■"> ,. 



'*'''/^./""""".'^ ■■■' ' ^ 



'lit-, 



<^ 



e>^,, 



< 1 






/, 



•' f 



'''•<„ ; 



^ I*. 



«^. 



"••; 






«**i/ 



'^ <f>, 









is 



1 » ••• 



(J*. i 



A' i/ 



^ 






•V 




'"' r (/, 



^^\. y 



'J 

ill 

89. 
the 
/// ,ious 

itles; 
, Dec. 
3r the 

n Saynt 

faster of 

Chapell, 

vne wher 

.ve yerely 

.ly, if his 

^ordschipes 

Cristynines- 

>p. Antiquities, 
; laments beloug- 

.ing "William of 

Nativity, and that 

I n the Church, not 



bcleue gode 

lie and blode. 

wyjjoutyn plyghte 

j/n y)ld nyghte, 

•c'leue Btedfastly 

\>Q YyTgyne Mary. 

a weyys or greuys, 

10 truly hyt semys. 
, 1. 4640-55, p. 146-7.) 



Xciv PREPACB TO RHODES. 

Their daily Lyrerey " of Fewell, as to say Woode and Cooles," 
was * The Maister and Childer of the Chapell j p** or ' peL* 

III. The allowance for the washing of the Surplices and Altar 
Cloths is given at pp. 242-4 : " ther shal be paide fore the Holl Wesh- 
ing of all mannar of Lynnon belonging my Lordes Chapell for an Holl 
Yere, but xv\j*. iiijcZ. And to be weshid for Every Penny iij 
Surpleses or iij Albes. And the said Surplesses to be Weshide in 
the Yere xvj tymes aganst thees Feests following," &c. 

rV. Their yearly wages were, " Gentilmen of the Chappell x (as 
to saye, Two at x Marks a pece — iij at ii^ / a pece — Two at v Marks a 
pece — Oon at iiij Marks — Oon at xls. — ande Oone at xx«. — Yiz. y 
Bassis — y Tenors ande vj Countertenors) — Childeryn of the ChapcU 
vj After XXV 8. a pece." 

The times and sources of the payment of the wages are stated at 
p. 27, as follows. 

CHAPELL WAGIS. 

Item to be payd to th* hands of Sir John Norton my Chamber- 
layn and >Ir. Gefferay Proctor my Treasurer for the contentacion of 
my Chapell Waigies for oone hole Yere as apery th more playnlyby 
the ChequireroUe and the Stile of the same what they shall have the 
Somme of xxxvZ. xv«. to be payd quarterly Viz. To be payd for the 
fyrst quarter at Cristynmas next after the said Michaelmas begynn- 
ynge the said Yere viijZ. xviijs. ixdf. of the Money of my Lands of 
Cumberland cummynge to the Coffers at the said Michaelmas upon 
the Auditt And to be payd for the secund quarter at our Lady day 
in Lentt viyZ. xviij*. ixd. to be payd of the Eevenuys of jny Lands 
of Northumberland of this Yere dew at Martjmmas after the said 
Michaelmas aforenamed and payable at Candlemas and to be payd to 
theme at the said Lady day And to be payd for thyrd quarter at 
Midsomer foloynge viijZ. xviiJA ix<i. to be payd of the Revenuys of 
my Lands in Yorkschyre dew and payable at Whitsonday afore said 
Midsomer and paid at the said Midsomer to theme And to be 
payd for the iiij^ quarter at Michaelmas foloynge endynge the 
said Yere in full contentacion viijZ. xviij«. ixd. to be payd of the 
Revenuys of my Lands of Yorkschyre of the said terme of Whitson- 
day by-past afore the said Michaelmas and payable at Michaelmas 
and payd to theme at the said Michaelmas in full contentacion of 
the said hole Yere And so the hole Somme for full contentacion 
of the said Chapell Waigies for oone hole Yere ys = xxxvZ. xys. 

V. The Gentlemen of the Chapel slept two in a bed, and the 

children three in a bed, and on their removing with Lord Percy 



PREFACE TO RHODES. XCV 

fjoni place to place, they were allowed the Beds and carriages 

following : 

Item Yt is Ordynyd, at every KemeyaU that the Deyn, Suhdean, 
Prestes, Gentilmen, and Children of my Lolrdes Chapell, with the 
Yoman and Grome of the Vestiy, shall have apontid theiine y 
Cajriadges at every Eemevall, Viz. One for ther Beddes, Viz. For vj 
Prests iij Beddes after ij to a Bedde ; For x GentiUmen of the Chapell 
V Beddes after ij to a Bedde And for vj Children ij Beddes after iy 
to a Bedde And a Bedde for the Yoman and Grom o*th Vestry In 
all xj Beddes for the furst Cariage. And the ij*** Cariage for ther 
Aparells and all outher ther Stuff, And to have no mo Cariage 
allowed them hut onely the said ij Cariages allowid theime." p. 389. 

YI. Besides assisting in the performance of Divine Service, the 

Gentlemen and Children of the Chapel played Mysteries or Eeligious 

Plays before their Master, for which they received special gratuities; 

and on the eve of the day of St Nicholas, patron of Schoolboys, Dec. 

6, the Boy-Bishop's' day, an extra payment was made, — ^for the 

ensuing day's festivity, I suppose : — 

Item My Lord useth and accustomy th to gyfe yerly upon Saynt 
Nicolas-Even, if he kepe Chapell for Saynt Nicolas, to the Master of 
his Childeren of his Chapell for one of the ChUderen of his Chapell, 
yerely vj«. viij^. And if Saynt Nicolas com owt of the Towne wher 
my Lord lyeth, and my Lord kepe no ChapeU, than to have yerely 
iiJA iiijri. vj«. vii^d. 

Item My Lord useth and accustomyth to gyfe yerely, if his 
liordship kepe a Chapell and be at home, them of his Lordschipes 
Chapell if they doo pLay the Play of the Nativite* uppon Cristyimiefih 

1 See in the Notes to North. Ho. Book^ p. 441, and inBrafuTa Pop. Antiquitita^ 
ed. 1841, T. ], p. 233, 'an inycntory of the splendid Robes and Ornaments belong- 
ing to one of these (Boy, called also) Beam Bishops,' 

< The only Miracle-Plays that Roberde of Bronne (following William of 
Waddin^i^) aUows to be played by clerics, are this Play of the Nativity, and that 
of the Resurrection mentioned below, and both must be played in the Church, not 
in ways or ^yes (or greens), — ^that would be sin : 



Hy t ys forbode hym yn ^o decre 

Myr4cles for to make or se ; 

For myr&cles ^yf )>ou begynne, 

Hyt ys a gaderyng, a syghte of synne. 

He may yn J^e chcrche |>urghe \\s resun 

Pley ^ returreeefftm, — 

pat ys to scy, how God ros, 

God and man yn my^t and los — 



To make men be yn beleue gode 
pat he ros wy|> flesshe and blode. 
And he may pleye wyl^outyn plyghte 
Howe god teas bore yn y)U nyghte^ 
To make men to beleue stedfastly 
pat he lyghte yn )>e vyrgyne Mary, 
juf |>ou do hyt yn weyys or greuys, 
A syghte of synne truly hyt semys. 
{Uatidhjng Synne, I. 4640-55, p. 146-7.) 



XCYl PREFACE TO RHODES. 

Day in the mornnynge in my Lords Cbappell befor his Lordship — 

XX8, 

Item My Lord usith and accustomyth, if he keope Chapell, to 
gyfe yerly in reward, when his Lordschip is at home, to the 
Childeren of my Lordis Chapell for synginge of Gloria in Excdsis at 

the Mattyns-tyme upon Cristynmas-Day in the momynge yj>. 

viyW. 

Item My Lorde useth and accustomyth to gyf Yerely, when his 
Lordshipp is at home, in reward to them of his Lordship Chappell, 
and other his Lordshipis Servaunts that doith play the Play befor 
his Lordship uppon Shroftewsday * at night, yerely in reward x*. 

Item My Lord usith and accustomedith to gyfe yerely, if his 
Lordship kepe a Chapell and is at home, in rewarde to them of his 
Lordshipe Chapell and other his Lordshipis Servauntes that playth 
the Play of Resurrection * upon Estur-Day in the Mornnynge in my 
Lordis * Chapell ' befor his Lordshipe xxs, 

VIL The eleven Gentlemen and six Children of the Chapel 
were as follows, p. 324 : 

The Gentlemen ande childrin of my Lordis Chappell Whiche 
be not appointid to attend at no tyme but oonely in excercising of 
GoDDis Service in the Chapell Daily at Mattins, Lady-Mass, 
Highe-Mass, Even-Song, ande Complynge. 

Gentlemen of my Lordis Chappell 



FuRBT A Bass 

Item A Seconde Bass 

Item The Thirde Bass 

Item A Maister of the Childer, 

A Countertenor 
Item A Seconde Countertenour 



Item A Thirde Countertenour 
Item A iiij*** Countertenor 
Item A Standing Tenour 
Item A Second Standing Tenoup 
Item A iij** Standyng Tenour 
Item A Fourth Standing Tenour 



See the Play of " The Birth of Christ," No. xv in the (hventry Mytteries, p. 145- 
165, and that of " The Salutation and Nativity," * The Wryghtes and Sklatcra 
plaie,* No. yi in the Cheater Playa, p. 94-118. In the ThumeUy Myateriet we hare 
six Plays to make up the Nativity, 1 Csesar Augustus, 2 Annunciatio, 3 Salutacio 
Elizaheth, 4 Prima Pagina Paatorum, 5 Secunda Pagina Pastorum, 6 Ohlacio 
Magorum. 

* There is no allusion to the Shrove Tuesday Play in Brand, i. 36-52. The 
Shrove I\teadaj^a tragedy of Mierocoamua, Act 5, was one of another kind, ib, p. 
41, col. 2. 

» See the Play JUaurreetto Domini in " The Towneley Mysteries," (Surtees 
Soc., 1836,) p. 254-269 ; « The Iteaurreetion;* No. xxxv. in « The Coventry 
Mysteries " (Shakspere Soc.), p. 838-53; and the "Mystery of the Kesurrection " 
in Reliquia Antiqua, vol. ii, p. 144-51. 



PREFACE TO RHODES. 



XCVll 



The Nombre of thois Parsoxs as Gentlemeit of my Lordis 

Chappell xj 

Childrin of my Lordis Chappell (p. 325) 



Item The Fyrst Child a Trible 
Item The ij^ Child a Trible 
Item The iij** Child a Trible 
Item The ii\j*** Child a Second 
Trible 



Item The v*** Child a Second 

Trible 
Item The vj*** Child a Second 

Trible 



The Noumbrb of thois Parsons as Childrin of my Lordis 

Chappell vj. 

VIIL The arrangement and days of attendance of the Grcntlemen 

at the different Chapel Services were as follows (p. 367) : 

The ordertngb op my Lordes Chappell in the Queare at 
Mattyngis Mas and Evynsongb To stonde in Ordure as Hereafter 
Followith 8YDE for side Dailye. 

The Secoundb Syde 



The Deans side 
The Deane 
The Subdeane 
A Basse 
A Tenor 
A Countertenor 
A Countertenor 
A Countertenor 



The Lady-Masse Priest 

The Gospeller 

A Basse 

A Countertenor 

A Countertenor 

A Tenor 

A Countertenor 

A Tenor 



The ordurynge of my Lordes Chappell for the Keapinge of our 
Ladyes ^LissE thorowte the Weike (p. 368) 



Sondat 
Master of the Childer, a Counter- 
tenor 
A Tenoure 
A Tenoure 
A Basse 

TwrSDAY 

Master of the Chillder, a Coun- 

[terj-tenour 
A Countertenoure 
A Countertenoure 
A Tenoure 

Thursdate 
Msister of the Chillder, a Counter- 
tenor 
A Countertenoure 
A Countertenoure 
A Tenoure 



Monday 
Master of the Childer, a Counter- 
tenor 
A Countertenoure 
A Countertenoure 
A Tenoure 

Wedywsday 
Master of the Chillder, a Counter- 
tenor 
A Countertenoure 
A Tenoure 
A Basse 

Fryday 
Master of the Chillder, a Counter- 
tenor 
A Countertenoure 
A Countertenoure 
A Basse 



XCV^IU 



PREFACE TO RHODES. 



Satturday 
Master of the Chillder, a Counter- 
tenor 
A Countertenor 
A Countertenoure 
A Tenoure 



Fry DAY 
And upon the saide Friday 
th Vol Chappell and every Day 
in the weike "when my Lorde 
Rhall be present at the saide 
Masse. 



The ordurtngb for keapynge Weikly of the Orgayns ' Oon after 
An Outher As the Namys of them hereafter followith Weikrly 

The Maister of the Chillder yf he be a Player The Fyrst Weke 
A Countertenor that is a Player the ij** Weke 
A Tenor that is a Player, the thirde Weike 
^ A Basse that is a Player, the iiij*"" Weike 
Ande every Man that is a Player to kepe his cours Weikely. 

The ordurynqb for stonding Rector-chore at the Deske, As to 
say, at Mattyngis, Highe-Masse, and Evyn-Songe, Oon on aither 
syde As the Namys of them hereafter followith Weikely 

The First Weike, a Tenoure on the oone side and a Countertenor 
on the outher side 

The Secounde Weike, a Countertenor on the oon side and a 
Tenor on the outher side 

The Thirde Weike, a Tenor on the oon side and a Countertenor 
on the outher side 

The Fourth Weike, a Countertenor on the oon side and a Tenor 
on the outher side. 

The ordurynqe of my Lordes Chapell in the Queare at Matt- 
ynges, Mas, and Evyn Songe, to stonde in Order as hereafter 

followith, 8TDE for 8YDB. 

The Deaxe sydb The seconds sydb 



The Deane 

The Subdeane 

The Gospiller 

A Countertenor 

A Basse 

A Countertenor 

A Tenor 

A Basse 

A Countertenor 



The Lady Masse Preist 

The Morrowe Messe Preist 

A Countertenor 

A Basse 

A Tenor 

A Countertenor 

A Basse 

A Countertenor 

A Tenor 



The ordurynge of my Lordes Chappell for the keapinge of oure 
Lady Masse thorowe oute the Weike 

1 Dr Rimbault says that Orgayns in the plural is the regular name for what we 
call the Organ, In old time^ one pipe was called an Orgayn, the collection of them 
Orgaynt. See in Rymer, torn. x. p. 387, col. 2, a.d. 1428, An. 6 Hen. YL, " £t a 
Bobert Atkyntone^ pur Carier les Organes Portatifs du Roy par diverses foitz a Pee 
(aasayoir) de Wyndesore jusqnes Eltham, &de Eltham jusques Hertford, Vi «. ymd. 



PBEPAGlfi TO RHODES. 



XCIX 



SONDAT 

The Maister of the Chilldren, a 

Couiit[er]-Tenor 
A Countertenor 
A Tenor 
A Countertenor 
A Basse 

Tbwtsdat 
The Master o'th Chilldren, a 

Countertenor 
A Countertenor 
A Tenor 
A Countertenor 
A Eaisse 

Thubsdat 
The Master o'th Cliilldren, a 

countertenor 
A Tennor 
A Countertenor 
A Countertenor 
A Baisse 

Satturdat 
The Master o'th Chilldren a 

Countertenor 
A Countertenor 
A Tennor 
A Countertennor 
A Baisse 

The orduryngb of the Basses in my Lordes Chappell for the 
settynge of the Quearb dayly at Mattynges, Masse, and Even Songe 
thorowe owte the Weike, As the Naymes of them, With the Daves 
and Ttmes that they shall kepe, Hereafter FoUowyth. 

The Basses 

The Fyrst Bais to set the Queyre all Sonday, and at Mattyngs 
on Friday. 

The ij'' Bais to set the Queare all Monday, and at Mas on 
Fryday, p. 374. 

The iij* Bais to set the Queare all Tewisday, and at Evyn-Song 
on Friday. 

The iiij*** Basse to set the Queare all Weddynsday, and at 
Mattyngs on Satturday. 

The v*** Bais to set the Queare all Thursday, and at Masse on 
Satturday. 

The ordurtnob for the keapynge Weykely of the Oroaynes ooiie 

after an outher, as the Names of them hereafter followith. 

h2 



Monday 
The Master o' th Chilldren, a 

Counter-tenor 
A Countertenor 
A Tenor 
A Tenor 
A Baisse 

"Weddetnsday 
The Master o*th Chilldren, a 

Countertenor 
A Countertennor 
A Countertennor 
A Tennor 
A Basse 

Friday 
The Master o'th Chilldren a 

Countertenor 
A Countertenor 
A Tennor 
A Countertenor 
A Baisse 

Fryday 

Uppon Fryday the Hoolle 

Chappell, and every day in the 

Weike when my Lorde shall be 

present at the sayde Lady-Masse. 



c preface to rhodes. 

The Orqaynb Players 

The Master o'th Chilldern, if he be a Player, the fyrst Weike. 

A Countertennor that is a Player, the Secounde Weike. 

A Tenner that is a Player, the Thyrde Weyke. 

A Baisse that ys a Player, the Fourthe Weike. 

And every Man that ys a player to kepe his Cours Weykely. 

The orduryxqe for stondynge Hector-chore at the Deske, Viz. 
at Mattyngs, Highe Mas, and Evyn-Songe, one after an other, sydr 
for 8YDE, as the Xamys of them hereafter followith (p. 375). 

Tewisdat. 

A Bais on the oon Syde 

And a Baise on the outher Syde 

Thursday. 

A Countertenor on the one Syde 
And a Tenor on the outher Syde 



Monday. 

Fyrst a Bayse on the oon Syde 
And a Baise on the *outher Side 

Weddynsday. 

A Countertenor on the oon Syde 
And a Countertenor on the 
outher Syde 

Fhyday («o). 

A Tennor on the oone Syde and 
A Countertenor on the outher 
Syde 



Satturday. 

A Countertenor on the oon Syde 
And a Tenor on the outher Syde 



Of Wolsey's chapel, Cavendish says (vol. i. p. 35, ed. Singer, 1825) : 

** Now I will declare unto you the officers of his chapel, and 
singing men of the same. First, he had there a Dean, who was 
always a great clerk and a divine ; a Suh-Dean ; a Repeater of the 
quire ; a Gospeller, a Pisteller ; and twelve singing Priests ; of 
Scholars he had fii'st, a Master of the children ; twelve singing 
children ; sixteen singing men ; with a servant to attend upon the 
said children." 

For an accouivt of Cardinal Wolsey's Minstrels, see Stowe's 
Annals, p. 635 ; Hawkins' Hist, Mtisic, iii. 67. The King borrowed 
Wolsey's minstrels, and made them play all night without resting, 
which killed the shalme-player, * who was vety excellent in that 
Instrument,' — unless the King's players poisoned him from jealousy. 

Hawkins, Hist of Mime, iii. 417, note, says that the first regular 
establishment of a company of players was that of the children of 
Paul's in 1378, the next that of the parish clerks of London at 
Skinner's-well ; the third that of the Children of the Royal Chapel 
under their master Edwards, by license from Queen Elizabeth ; fourth, 
that of the Children of the Revels. 

One of the last two is Shakespere's * aiery of little children, little 
eyases/ Hamlet, act ii. sc. 6. 



CI 



NOTE TO PRICKSy p. lxxxiii. 



What the ffrieks were I can't quite make out. T. RoJ)ert8, in the Qlossary to 
his English Bowman^ 1801, p. 292, has the following : 
Pbick marit.— The white Mark or Target shot at. 

PBiCK^^m^. } -Shooting at prick Markg. 

Pricks. — The place where the pricks or marks are placed. 
— — thaft. — An arrow used in prick-shooting. 

Pbickib.— The needle or instrument with which the target card is pricked or 
marked. 

In the welUknown Archery Statute, 33 Henry VIII. cap. 9, the word prick is 
used for target or butt, and prick-BhaJt for arrow. " That no man under the Age 
of Twenty-four Tears shall shoot at any standing Prick^ except it be at a Rover,* 
vhereat he shall change at erery Shoot his Mark, upon Pain [to forfeit] for every 
Shoot doing the contrary iv. d. ; and that no Person above the said Age of 
Twenty-four Years shall shoot at any Mark of eleven score Yards or under, with 
Eny Frick-ska/i or Flight under the Pain to forfeit for every Shoot, Six shillings 

£ight-pence and also that Butts be made on this side the Feast of St 

Michael the Archangel next coming in every City, Town and Place, by the Inhabit- 
ants of every such City, Town and Place according to the Law of ancient Time used." 
Palsgrave has * Pricke, a marke— mar^z^^,' and Prompt. * Prykke, merke, meta.* 

It seems clear that the biUis were for near or short shooting, and the pricks for 
long ranges, which is, I suppose, the meaning of " a mark of compass f." 

" Moll. Out upon him, what a suiter have I got, I am sorry you are so bad an 
Archer, sir. 

Ears, Why Bird, why Bird ? 

MolL Why, to shoote at JButs, when you shou'd use prick-ahaftSy short shooting 
rnll loose ye the game, I as[8ure] you, sir. 

JEare. Her minde runnes sure upon a Flefeher^ or a Bofjoyer^ " 

1633, Rowley. A Match at Midnight^ Act ii. sc. 1 (ref. in Richardson). 

'* The Cornish men," says Carew {, are '* well skilled in near shooting, and in well- 
aimed ahooting ;->the htttn made them perfect in the one, and the roaring in the 



* An aoddMital mark, in oontradittinotion to batts and targets : trees, bnshes, posts, mounds of 
sarth, landmarks, stones, Ac., are roving marks. Hansard's Archery, p. M2. 

t And first for shooting in the long-bowe a man must ohsenre these few rules : first that hee hau« 
a good eye to behold and disceme his marke, a knowing iudgroent to vnderstand the distance of 
groood to take the true adnantage of a side-winde, and to know in what wmpatt [tnOectory] his 
anow must file. O. MCarkham], CcwOrty Conttntment^ 1615, p. 107, referred to by Strutt. 

X Carcw's Cornwall, 1602, Bk. i. tol. 7S, in Strutt/s BporU and Pastimes, p. 40. 



CU NOTES. 

other, for the pricket, the first comipterB of archery through too much predseness, 
were formerly scarcely known, and little practised.*' 

Aflcham seems to use the word pricks for — 1. the uprights of a target, or a pair 
of targets, one at the top and the other at the hottom of the range, as in the engraT- 
ing in Strutt; *2. the target itself; and, 3. the white in the centre of it, or piece of 
wood (HaUiwell), 

Off the marke he welde not fayle, 
He cleffed thepreke on thre. — Bobin Sbodj i. 91. 

I. and II. ' A pair of winding pricks ' is one of the ' things that hinder a man which 
looketh at his mark to shoot straight,' *(. p. 161. ' If the pricks stand of a straight 
plain ground, they be the best to shoot at. If the mark stand on a hill-dde . . a 
man's eye shall think that to be straight which is crooked,' ib. p. 169, pricks being 
here equiyalent to mark^ * To shoot straight, they have inrented some ways . . to have 
some notable thing betwixt the marks ; and once I saw a good archer which did cast 
off his gear, and laid his quiver with it, eren in the midway betwixt the pricks,' ib, 
p. 169. (Markham, in his Art o/Archerisy 1 634 (which seems little more than his o« n 
Introduction, and a copy of parts of Ascham's Toxophilus), has 'betwixt the marks ' 
in both places : p. 165. * And once I heard in Cambridge the down-marke at Twelne- 
Bcon-priek for the space of three markes was thirteene score and an halfe, p. 161.) 
* I suppose it be a great deal more pleasure also to see a soul fly in Plato, than a 
shaft fly at the pricks,* »^. p. 12. * You may stand sometime at the pricks, and look 
on them which shoot best,' ib. p. 90. 

' I fortuned to come with three or four that went to shoot at the pricks, p. 1 1 ; 
< the customable shooting at home at butts and pricks,' p. 82. ' Tou must take heed 
also, if oyer you shoot where one of the marks, or both, stands a little short of a high 
wall, for there you may be easily beguiled. . . For the wind which cometh indeed 
against you, redoundeth back again at the wall, and whirleth back to the prick, and 
a little farther, and then tumeth again,' p. 166. ' Use ot pricking^ and desire of near 
shooting at home, are the only causes of strong shooting in war,' p. 80. 

III. In the singular, * the prick, at other times called the white, is the white spot 
or point in the midst of the mark,' says Dr Giles, td. p. 91, in a note to ' at all times 
^ hit the prick, shall . . no shooter ever do.' ' The best end in shooting, which 
you call hitting of the prick* p. 91. < And by & by he Ufteth his arme of pricks 
heyght.' (Folio 64, ed. 1671.) But yet at p. 99, * what handling belongcth 
to the mark ? 7b^. To mark his standing, to shoot compass • . to consider the 
nature of the prick, in hills and dales, in straight plains and winding places, and also 
to espy his mark.' * Other men use to espy some mark almost a bow wide of the 
prick, and then go about to keep himself on the hand that the prick is on,' p. 160. 

Haring referred the question of the various meanings of the word prick to the 
best authority in Britain, Mr Peter Muir, Bowmaker to the Boyal Archers at 
Edinburgh, he answers :~ 1st. See Strutt's Sports and Pastimes, page 62, ed. 1838, 
<' The marks usually shot at by Archers for pastime were Butts, prickes, and 
Jtoavcrs" The Butt, we are told, was a level mark, &c. The I^ricke was ' a 
marke of compass,' but certain in its distance, and to this mark strong swift arrows 
of one flight were best suited. 2nd. In Roberts' English Bowman, page 241 
(London, 1801), is the following, in an article, sect. v. * Of Prick shooting :' — " In 
archery we frequently find mention of prick shooting. Prick-marks and Prick - 
shafts arc noticed in Stat, of the 33rd H. VIII. c. 9, before cited. The latter, we 
know, are arrows considerably lighter than those used in other kinds of shooting 



NOTES. cm 

except fliglit shooting. The ancient prick-mark was frequently called the White^ 
and consisted prohablj of a card or piece of stifif white paper. In the Garland, 
indeed, we read of priele wands and willow wands, probably peeled sticks. One 
thing we may collect, which distingnishes this kind of shooting from others, namely, 
that the prick or mark was generally fixed to one spot, and at a less distance, than 
in other kinds of shooting, and not varied daring the shooting. Hence the Statute 
terms it a standing prick, or mark. Prick being a Saxon word for point, seems to 
indicate that this kind of shooting was chiefly confined to small marks, &c. Garew 
obsenres it ' required too mtioh preciteneat.* Holinshed and Ascham allude to it as 
*^ shooting round eompass* The marks used for this kind of shooting for two 
eenturies past consisted either of a small circular piece of white paper fixed to a post 
{toamd) or of a target Modem prick shooting is practised by the Royal Archers 
at Edinburgh, and is their farourite, at a small round target fixed at 180 yards. 
Within 30 years they shot at a square nuurk of canvas on a frame, and called ' the 
Clout;' and an arrow striking the target is still called ^a clout* They count 
arrows in the ground within four bow-lengths, or 24 feet of the target, the nearest 
arrow only counting, which is decided by a cord from the centre of the target, and 
may have been the origin of the * mark of compass.' The Boyal Archers still shoot 
at Butts 100 feet at the small paper which is enclosed [four inches in diameter, with 
a white dot as a centre, and four rings outside it]. Till within these few years the 
Kilwinning Archers (the oldest club in Britain) shot Butts at a white paper two 
uwhts in diameter. Lately they adopted a mark 12 inches, with a two'inch white in 
the centre, and other two rings outside of diflferent valnes." 

Mr Wright glosses pricks as ** a game like bowls." Bowls was a game known 
in early times. Among the sports to make a young lady forget her lover is this, 

A himdred knightes, truly told, 

Shall play with bowls in alleys cold. 

Tour diseases to drive away. 

Squyer of Lowe Degre, Ellis. Spec. p. 337. 
If any reader of this note feeb certain as to the meaning of prgckis, he knows more 
abo«t it than I do. 



PREFACE TO RUSSELL. 

Though this Boke of Nurture by John Eussell is the most com- 
plete and elaborate of its kind, I have never seen it mentioned by 
name in any of the many books and essays on early manners and 
customs, food and dress, that have issued from the press. My own 
introduction to it was due to a chance turning over, for another 
purpose, of the leaves of the MS. containing it. Mr Wheatley then 
told me of Ritson's reference to it in his Bibliog^raphica PaeticOy p. 
96 ; and when the text was all printed, a reference in The Glossary 
of Domestic Architecture (v. III. Pt. I. p. 76, note, coL 2) sent me 
to MS. Sloane 1315 * — in the Glossary stated to have been written 
in 1452 — which proved to be a diflferent and unnamed version of 
Russell. Then the Sloane Catalogue disclosed a third MS., No. 2027 *, 
and the earliest of the three, differing rather less than No. 1315 firom 
Russell's text, but still anonymous. I have therefore to thank for 
knowledge of the MSS. that special Providence which watches over 
editors as well as children and drunkards, and have not on this 
occasion to express gratitude to Ritson and Warton, to whom 
every lover of Early English Manuscripts is under such deep obliga- 
tions, and whose guiding hands (however faltering) in Poetiy have 
made us long so often for the like in Prose. Would that one 
of our many Historians of English Literature had but conceived the 
idea of cataloguing the materials for his History before sitting down 
to write it ! Would that a wise Government would commission 
another Hardy to do for English Literature what the Deputy- 
Keeper of the Public Records is now doing for English Histoiy — > 

^ This MS. contains a copy of " The Bewle of the Moone," fol. 49-67, which I 
hope to edit for the Society. 

< The next treatise to Russell in this MS. is '* The booke off the gon^maunce 
off Eyngis and Fryncis," or Liber Aristotilet ad Alexandrum Magnum^ a book of 
Lydgate's that we ought to print from the best MS. of it At fol. 74 b. is a 
heading, — 

Here dyed this translatour and noble poette Lidgate and the yong follower gan 
his prolog on this wys. 



PREFACE TO RUSSELL. CV 

give us a list of the MSS. and early printed books of it ! What 

time and trouble such a Catalogue would save ! 

But to return to John Russell and his Boke. He describes 

himself at the beginning and end of his tieatise as Usher and 

Marshal to Humphrey, Duke of Gloucester, delighting in his work in 

youth, quitting it only when compelled by crooked age, and then 

anxious to train up worthy successors in the art and mystery of 

managing a well-appointed household. A man evidently who knew 

his work in every detail, and did it all with pride ; not boastful, 

though upholding his office against rebellious cooks *, putting them 

down with imperial dignity, '' we may allow and disallow ; our 

office is the chief ! " A simple-minded religious man too, — as the 

close of his Treatise shows, — and one able to appreciate the master 

ho served, the " prynce fulle royalle," the learned and munificent 

Humphrey Duke of Gloucester, the patron of Lydgate, Occleve, 

Capgrave, Withamstede, Leonard Aretine, Petrus Candidus, Petrus 

de Monte, Tito Livio, Antojme de Beccara, &c. &c., the lover of 

Manuscripts, the first great donor to the Oxford University Library 

which Bodley revived *, " that prince peerless," as Russell calls him, 

a man who, with all his faults, loved books and authors, and shall be 

respected by us as he was by Lydgate. But our business is with the 

^larshal, not the Master, and we will hear what John Russell says of 

himself in his own verse, 

an vsshere y Am / ye may beholde / to a prynce of highe degre, 
]wt enioyethe to enforme & teche / all6 ]>o thatt wille thrive & thee. 

Of suche thynge^ as here-affcz/r shalle be shewed by my diligence 
To them J)at nought Can / wtt^-owt gret exsperience ; 
Therfore yf any mafl fat y mete withe, pat for fawt of necligence, 
y wylle hym enforme & teche, for hurtynge of my Conscience. 

To teche vertew and cownynge, me thynketh hit charitable, 

for moche youthe in cownynge / is barefl & fiille vnable. (L 3-9.) 

At the end of his Boke he gives us a few more details about him- 
self and his work in life : 

1 One can fancy that a cook tike Wolsey^s (described by Cavendisb, vol. 1. p. 34), 
** a Master Cook who went daily in damask satin, or velvet, with a chain of gold 
about his neck " (a mark of nobility in earlier days) would be not leef but loth to 
obey an nsher and marshal. 

^ Warton, ii. 264-8, ed. 1840. For further details about the Duke see the 
Appendix to this Preface. 



CVl PREFACE TO RUSSELL. 

Now good son, y haue shewed the / & brought Je in vre, 

to know pe Curtesie of court / & these )>ow may take in cure, 

In pantry / botery / or cellere / & in kervyngc a-fore a sovereynd 

demewrc, 
A sewer / or a mersihalle : in ))es science / y suppose ye byik sewre. 

Which in my dayes y lemyd withe a prynce fulle royallc, 
with whom vschere in chambur was y, & mershalla also in halle, 
vnto whom alle Jjese officere* foresaid / fey euer enteride shalle, 
Evir to fulfille my co7rimaundement whefl Jat y to J)em calle : 

For we may allow & dissalow / oure office is fe cheeff 

In cellere & spicery / & the Cooke, be he loothe or leeff. (L 11 73-82.) 

Further on, at line 1211, he says, 

" Moore of Jis cownynge y Cast not me to contreve : 
my tyme is not to tary, hit drawest fast to eve. 
J)is tretyse J)at y haue entitled, if it ye entende to preve, 
y assayed me self in youthe w/t^-outeii any greve. 

while y was yonge y-noughe & lusty in dede, 
y enioyed fese maters foreseid / & to leme y toke good hede ; . 
but croked age hathe compelled me / & leue court y must node. 
ferfore, sone, assay thy self / & god shalle be pj spede." 

And again, at line 1227, 

" Now, good sofi, thy self, w/t^ other fat shalle fe succede, 
whiche fus boke of nurture shalle note / lerne, & oue?* rede, 
pray for the sowle of lohn Russelle, fat god do hym mede, 
Som tyme se7'uaunde vrtth duke vmfrey, due* of Glowcetur in dede. 

For fat prynce pereles prayethe / & for suche other mo, 

f e sowle of my wife / my fadur and modir also, 

vn-to Mary modyr and mayd / she fende us from owre foe, 

and brynge vs alle to blis whefi we shaUe hens goo. AMElf." 

As to his Boke, besides. what is quoted above, John Russell says, 

Go forthe lytelle boke, and lowly f ow me cowmende 

vnto alle yonge gentilmefl / fat lust to lerne or entende, 

and specially to f em fat han exsperience, praynge f e[m] to amende 

and correcte >at is amysse, p^re aa y fawte or offende. 

And if so fat any be founde / as f rou3 myn necligence, 
Cast f e cawse on my copy / rude / & bare of eloquence, 
whiche to drawe out [I] haue do my besy diligence, 
redily to reforme hit / by resofl and bettur sentence. 

As for ryme or reson, f e forewryter was not to blame. 
For as he founde hit a^ome hyiQ, so wrote he f e same, 
and f aughe he or y in oure matere digres or degrade, 
blame neithur of vs / For we neuyre hit made ; 

^ Tho due has a red stroke through it, probably to cut it out. 



PREFACE TO RUSSELL. CVll 

Symple as y had insight / somwhat f e ryme y correcte ; 
blame y cowde no man / y haue no persone suspecte. 
Now, good god, graunt vs grace / oure sowles neuer to Infecte ! 
Jafi may we legne in J)i regioun / eternally wit^ thyne electe. 

(L 1235-50.) 

If John Eussell was the writer of the Epilogue quoted above, 
lines 1235-50, then it irould seem that in this Treatise he only 
corrected and touched up some earlier Book of Norture which he 
had used in his youth, and which, if Sloane 2027 be not its original, 
may be still extant in its primal state in Mr Arthur Davenport's 
MS., " How to serve a Lord," said to be of the fourteenth century ', 
and now supposed to be stowed away in a hayloft with the owner's 
other books, awaiting the rebuilding and fitting of a fired house. I 
only hope this MS. may prove to be Russell's original, as Mr Daven- 
port has most kindly promised to let me copy and print it for the 
Society. Meantime it is possible to consider John Russell's Book of 
Norture as his own. For early poets and writers of verse seem to 
liave liked this fiction of attributing their books to other people, and 
it is seldom that you find them acknowledging that they have im- 
agined their Poems on their own heads, as Hampole has it in his 
Pridce of Conscience, p. 239, 1. 8874 (ed. Morris, Philol. Soc). Even 
Mr Tennyson makes believe that Everard Hall wrote his Mfrrte cT 
Arthur y and some Leonard his Golden Yenr. On the other hand, the 
existence of the two Sloane MSS. is more consistent with Russell's 
own statement (if it is his own, and not his adapter's in the 
Harleian MS.) that he did not write his Boke himself, but only 
touched up another man's. Desiring to let every reader judge for 
himself on this point, I shall try to print in a separate text*, for con- 
venience of comparison, the Sloane MS. 1315, which differs most 
from Russell, and which the Keeper of the MSS. at the British 
Museum considers rather earlier (ab. 1440-50 a.d.) than the MS. of 
Russell (ab, 1460-70 A.D.), while of the earliest of the three, Sloane 
MS. 2027 (ab. 1430-40 a.d.), the nearer to Russell in phraseology, I 
shall give a collation of all important variations. If any reader of the 

1 See one MS., '' How to serve a Lord," ab. 1500 a.d., quoted in the notes (o 
the Camden 8001617*8 Italian Relation of England, p. 97. 
> For the Early English Text Society. 



CVIU 



i>REFACE TO RU88ELL. 



present text compares the Sloanes with it^ he will find the subject 
matter of all three alike, except in these particulars : 



Sloane 2027. 
Contains these lines. 
Inserts and omits as SI. 1315 does, 
bat the wording is often different. 



Contains this stanza (fol. 42, b.)- 
Contracts the Fumositees too (foL 45 

and back). 
Has one verse of Lenvoy altered (fol. 

45 b.). 
Transfers as SI. 1315 does (see fol. 

48). 



Sloane 1315. 
Omits lines 1-4 of Russell. 
Inserts after 1. 48 of R. a passage 

about behaviour which it nearly 

repeats, where Russell puts it, at 

1. 276, Sample Condicions. 
Omits Russeirs stanza, 1. 305-8, about 

' these cuttid galauntes with their 

codware.' 
Omits a stanza, 1. 319-24, p. 137. 
Contracts R''s chapter on Fumositees, 

p. 139. 
Omits R.'s Lenvoy, under Fried Metes, 

p. 149-50. 
Transfers R.'s chapters on Sewet on 

Fische Dayet and Sawcis for FUhe, 

1. 819-54, p. 171-5, to the end of 

his chapter on Keroyng o/FUhe^ 1. 

C49, p. 161. 
Gives different Soteltes (or Devices 

at the end of each course), and 

omits Russell's description of his 

four of the Four Seasons, p. 164-70 ; 

and does not alter the metre of the 

lines describing the Dinners as he 

does, p. 167-171. 
Winds up at the end of the Bathe or Has 3 winding-up stanzas, as if about 

SUwe, 1. 1000, p. 183, R., with two to end as Sloane 1315 does, but 

stanzas of peroration. As there is yet goes on (omitting the Bathe 

no Explicit , the MS. may be incom- Medicinable) with the Vtsher and 

plete, but the next page is blank. Mamhalle, R. p. 185, and ends sud- 

denly, at 1. 1062, p. 188, R., in the 
middle of the chapter. 

In occasional length of line, in words and rhymes, Sloane 1315 
differs far more from Russell than Sloane 2027, which has Russell's 
long lines and rhymes throughout, so far as a hurried examination 
shows. 



Differs from R., nearly as SI. 1315 
does. 



PREFACE TO RUSSELL. CIX 

But the variations of both these Sloane MSS. are to me more 
like those from an original MS. of which our Harleian Russell is a 
copy, than of an original which Russell altered. Why should the 
earliest Sloane 2027 start with 

" An Ysschere .y. am / as ye may se : to a prynce Of hyghe degre " 

if in its original the name of the prince was not stated at the end, as 
Russell states it, to show that he was not gammoning his readers 1 
Why does Sloane 1315 omit lines in some of its stanzas, and words in 
some of its lines, that the Harleian Russell enables us to fill up ? Why 
does it too make its writer refer to the pupil's lord and sovereign, if 
in its original the author did not clench his teaching by asserting, as 
Russell does, that he had served one ? This Sloane 1315 may well 
have been copied by a man like Wynkyn de Worde, who wished not 
to show the real writer of the treatise. On the whole, I incline 
to believe that John Russell's Book of Norture was written by him, 
and that either the Epilogue to it was a fiction of hLs, or was written 
by the superintender of the particular copy in the Harleian MS. 401 1, 
Kuasell's own work terminating with the Ajnen I after line 1234. 

But whether we consider Russell's Boke another's, or as in the main 
lus own, — allowing that in parts he may have used previous pieces 
on the subjects he treats of, as he has used Stana Puer (or its 
original) in his Symple Condicions^ 1. 277-304, — ^if we ask what the 
Boke contains, the answer is, that it is a complete Manual for the 
Valet, Butler, Footman, Carver, Taster, Dinner-arranger, Hippocras- 
maker. Usher and Marshal of the Nobleman of the time when the 
work was written, the middle of the fifteenth century. — For I take 
the date of the composition of the work to be somewhat earlier than 
that of the MS. it is here printed from, and suppose Humphrey 
Duke of Gloucester, " imprisoned and murdered 1447," to have been 
still alive when his Marshal penned it. — Reading it, we see " The 
Good Duke " rise and dress *, go to Chapel and meals, entertain at 
feasts in Hall, then undress and retire to rest ; we hear how his head 
was combed with an ivory comb, his stomacher warmed, his petycote 
put on, his slippers brown as the waterleech got ready, his privy-seat 
prepared, and his urinal kept in waiting ; how his bath was made, his 

1 I haye put figures before the motions in the dress and undress drills, for they 
rpminded me so of " Manual and Platoon ; by numbers." 



ex PREFACE TO RUSSELL. 

table laidy his guests arranged, his viands carved^ and his salt 
smoothed * ; we are told how nearly all the birds that fly, the animals 
that walk the earth, the fish that s>vim in river and sea, are food for 
the pot : we hear of dishes strange to us*, beaver's tail, osprey, brewe, 
venprides, whale, swordfish, seal, torrentyne, pety perveis or pemeis, 
and gravell of beef. Bills of fare for flesh and fish days are laid before 
us ; admired Sotiltees or Devices are described ; and he who cares to 
do so may fancy for himself the Duke and all his brilliant circle 
feasting in Hall, John Russell looking on, and taking care that all 
goes right.^ I am not going to try my hand at the sketch, as I do 
not write for men in the depths of that deducated Philistinism which 
lately made a literary man say to one of our members on his printing 
a book of the 15 th century, " Is it possible that you care how those 
barbarians, our ancesix)rs, lived]" If any one who takes up this 
tract, will not read it through, the loss is his ; those who do work at 
it will gladly acknowledge their gain. That it is worthy of the 
attention of all to whose ears tidings of Early England come with 

1 Mr Way says that the ptanere^ I. 58, is an article new to antiquarians. 

* Randle Holme's tortoise and snails, in No. 12 of hia Second Course, Bk. III., 
p. 60, col. ] , are stranger still. '^ Tortoise need not seem strange to an alderman who 
eats turtle, nor to a West Indian who eats terrapin. Nor should Snails, at least to 
the city of Paris, which devours myriads, nor of Ulra, which breeds millions for the 
table. Tortoises are good ; snails excellent." Henry H. Gibbs. 

^ *' It is nought all good to the goost that the gut asketh " we may weU say 
with William who wrote Piers Floughmon^ t. 1, p. 17, 1. 633-4, after reading the 
lists of things eatable, and dishes, in Russell's pages. The later feeds that Phylotheus 
Physiologus exclaims against * are nothing to them : '* What an Hodg-potch do 
most that have Abilities make in their Stomachs, which must wonderfully oppress 
and distract Nature : For if you should take FUah of various sorts, FUh of as many. 
Cabbages, Partnope, Potatoes, Mustard, Butter, Cheese, a Pudden that contains more 
then ten several Ingredents, Tarts, Stceet-meats, Custards, and add to these Churriesy 
Plums, Currans, Apples, Capers, Olives, Anchovies, Mangoes, Caveare, ^e., and jumble 
them altogether into one Mass, what Eye would not loath, what Stomach not abhor 
such a OaUemaufrey ? yet this is done every Day, and counted Oallent JEntertainmetU." 

^ See descriptions of a dinner in Parker's Domestic Architecture of the Middle 
Ages, iii. 74-87 (with a good cut of the Cupboard, Dais, &c.), and in Wright's 
Domestic Manners and Customs. Russell's description of the Franklin's dinner, 
1. 795-8 18,* should be noted for the sake of Chaucer's Franklin, and we may also 
notice that Russell orders butter and fruits to be served on an empty stomach before 
dinner, 1. 77, as a whet to the appetite. Modus Cenandi serves potage first, and 
keeps the fruits, with the spices and biscuits, for dessert. Part II. p. 38, 1. 54. 

* Monthly Observations for the preserving of Health, 1686, p. 20-1. 



PREFACE TO RUSSELL. Cxi 

welcome sound across the wide water of four hundred years, I 
unhesitatingly assert. That it has interested me, let the time its notes 
have taken on this, a fresh subject to me, testify. If any should 
object to the extent of them ', or to any words in them that may 
offend his ear, let him excuse them for the sake of what he thinks 
rightly present. There are still many subjects and words insuffi- 
ciently illustrated in the comments, and for the names venprides (L 
820) ; sprotis^ (Isprats, as in Sloane 1315), and torrentUle (L 648) ; 
almond mrdyne (L 744) ; ginger colombijney vatadynSf and inaydelyne 
(L 132-3) ; leche dugard, &c., I have not been able to find meanings. 
Explanations and helps I shall gladly receive, in the hope that they 
may appear in another volume of like kind for which I trust soon to 
find more MSS. Of other MSS. of like kind I also ask for notice. 

The reason for reprinting Wynkyn de Worde's Boke of Keruyngey 
-which I had not at first thought of, was because its identity of phrase 
and word with many parts of Russell, — a thing which came on me 
with a curious feeling of surprise as I turned over the leaves, — ^made 
it certain that de Worde either abstracted in prose Eussell's MS., 
chopping off his lines' tails, — adding also bits here^, leaving out others 
there, — or else that both writers copied a common original. The 
most cursory perusal wUl show this to be the case. It was not alone 
by happy chance that when Russell had said 

O Fruture viant / Fruter sawge byn good / better is Frut^^r powche ; 
Appulle fruture / is good hoot / but fe cold ye not towche (L 501-2) 

Wynkyn de Worde delivered himself of 

" Fruyter vaunte, firuyter say be good ; better is fruyter pouche ; 
apple fruyters ben good good hote / and all colde frutei-s, touche 
not," 

1 The extracts from BuIIeyn, Borde, Vaugban, and Harington are in the nature of 
notes, but their lengtb gave one the excuse of printing them in bigger type as parts of 
a Text In the same way I should have treated the many extracts from Laurens 
Andrewe, had I not wanted them intermixed with the other notes, and been also 
afraid of swelling this book to an unwieldy size. 

* The Termes of a Keryer so common in MSS. are added, and the sabsequent 
arrangement of the modes of earring the birds under these Termes, p. 15-17. The 
Easter-Day feast (p 14) is also new, the bit why the heads of pheasants, partridges, 
!«., are unwholesome — * for they ete in theyr degrees foule thynges, as wormes, 
todes, and other saehe ' — and several other pieces. 



CXU PREFACE TO RUSSELL. 

altering nofe place to save the rhyme ; or that wheu Russell harl 
said of the Crane 

The Crane is a fowle / that stronge is with to fare ; 
pe whynge*? ye areyse / full^ large evyfl thara ; 
of hyre trompe in J>e brest / loke fat ye beware 

Wynkyn de Worde directed his Carver thus : " A crane, reyse the 
wynges fyrst, & beware of the trumpe in his brest." Let any one 
compare the second and third pages of Wynkyn de Worde's text 
with lines 48-137 of Russell, and he will make up his mind that the 
old printer was either one of the most barefaced plagiarists that ever 
lived, or that the same original was before him and Russell too. 
May Mr Davenport's hayloft, or some learned antiquarian, soon 
decide the alternative for us ! The question was too interesting a 
" Curiosity of Literature " not to be laid before our Members, and 
therefore The Bake of Keruynge was reprinted — ^from the British 
Museum copy of the second edition of 1513 — with added side-notes 
and stops, and the colophon as part of the title. 

Then came the necessaiy comparison of Russell's Soke with the 
Boke of Cuvtasye^ edited by Mr Halliwell from the Sloane MS. 1986 
for the Percy Society. Contrasts had to be made with it, in parts, 
many times in a page ; the tract was out of print and probably in 
few Members* hands; it needed a few corrections*, and was worthy 
of a thousand times wider circulation than it had had ; therefore a 
new edition from the MS. was added to this volume. Relying on 
Members reading it for themselves, I have not in the notes indicated 
all the points of coincidence and difference between this Boke and 
Russell's. It is of wider scope than Russell's, takes in the duties 
of outdoor officers and servants as weU as indoor, and maybe those of a 
larger household ; it has also a fyrst Boke on general manners, and a 
Second Book on what to learn at scliool, how to behave at church, 
&c., but it does not go into the great detail as to Meals and Dress 
which is the special value of Russell's Boke, nor is it associated with 
a writer who tells us something of himself, or a noble who in all our 
English Middle Age has so bright a name on which we can look back 

1 do they 1. 115, is elothe in the MS. ; grayne^ I. 676 (see too 11. 589, 597,) is 
grayue^ Scotch grme^ AS. gerefa^ a kind of bailiff ; reseeyne^ 11. 547, 575, Uretceytte^ 
receive ; &c. 



PREFACE TO RUSSELL. CXlll 

88 "good Duke Humphrey." This personality adds an interest to work 
that anonymity and its writings of equal value can never have ; so 
that we may he well content to let the Gurtasye he used in illustra- 
tion of the Nurture. The MS. of the Curtasye is ahout 1460 a.d., 
Mr Bond says. I have dated it wrongly on the half-title. 

7%e Booke of Demeanor was " such a little one " that I was 
tempted to add it to mark the general introduction of handkerchiefs. 
Having printed it, arose the question, * Where did it come from ? ' No 
Weste's Schoole of Vertue could I find in catalogues, or hy inquiring 
of the Duke of Devonshire, Mr W. C. Hazlitt, at the Bodleian, 
&c. Seagn^ Sehoole of Vertue was the only hook that turned up, 
and this I accordingly reprinted, as Weste's Booke of Demeanor 
seemed to he httle more than an ahstract of the first four Chapters 
of Seager cut down and rewritten. We must remember that hooks 
of ihis kind, which we look on as sources of amusement, as more or less 
of a joke, were taken seriously hy the people they were written for. 
That Hie Sehoole of Vertue^ for instance — ^whether Seager's or Weste's 
— ^was used as a regular school-hook for hoys, let lo. Brinsley witness. 
In his Grammar Sehoole of 1612, pp. 17, 18, he enumerates the 
** Bookes to bee first learned of cliildren": — 1. their Abcie, and 
Primer. 2. The Psalms in metre, * because children wil leame that 
booke with most readinesse and delight through the running of the 
metre, as it is found by experience. 3. Then the Testament.' 4. 
** If any require any other little booke meet to enter children ; the 
Schoole of Vertue is one of the principall, and easiest for the first 
enterers, being full of precepts of ciuilitie, and such as children will 
soone leame and take a delight in, thorow the roundnesse of the 
metre, as was sayde before of the singing Psalmes : And after it the 
Sehoole of good manners^ y called, the new Schoole of Vertue, leading 
the childe as by the hand, in the way of all good manners." I make 
no apology for including reprints of these little-known books in an 
Early English Text. Qui i^ excuse s' accuse ; and if these Tracts do 
not justify to any reader their own appearance here, I believe the fault 
is not theirs. A poem on minding what you say, which Mr Aldis 

^ This if donbtlesB a different book from Hugh Rhodes's Book$ of Nwriwr$ f 
Sehoofe of Good Manmrg, p. 71:, below. 

1 



CXIV PREFACE TO RUSSELL. 

Wright has kindly sent me, some Maxims on Behaviour, &c., which 
all fend in -Zy, and Roger Ascham's Advice to his brother-in-law on 
entering a nobleman's service, finish Part I. 

The woodcuts Messrs Virtue have allowed me to have copies of 
for a small royalty, and they will help the reader to realise parts of 
the text better than any verbal description. The cuts are not of 
course equal to the beautiful early illuminations they are taken from, 
but they are near enough for the present purpose. The dates of those 
from British Museum MSS. are given on the authority of trustworthy 
officers of the Manuscript Department. The dates of the non-Museum 
MSS. are copied from Mr Wright's text The line of description 
under the cuts is also from Mr Wright's text, except in one instance 
where he had missed the fact of the cut representing the Marriage 
Feast at Cana of Galilee, with its six water-pots. 

The MS. of Russell is on thick folio paper, is written in a close — 
and seemingly unprofessional — ^hand, fond of making elaborate capitals 
to the initials of its titles, and thus occasionally squeezing up into a 
comer the chief word of the title, because the T of Ths preceding 
has required so much room.' The MS. has been read through by a 
corrector with a red pen, pencil, or brush, who has underlined all the 
important words, touched up the capitals, and evidently believed in 
the text Perhaps the corrector, if not writer, was Russell himself. 
I hope it was, for the old man must have enjoyed emphasizing his 
precepts with those red scores; but then he would hardly have 
allowed a space to remain blank in line 204, and have left his 
Panter-pupil in doubt as to whether he should lay his ''white 
payne" on the left or right of his knives. Every butler, drill- 
serjeant, and vestment-cleric, must feel the thing to be impossible. 
The corrector was not John RusselL 

To all those gentlemen who have helped me in the explanations 
of words, &c., — Mr Gillett, Dr Gunther, Mr Atkinson, Mr Skeat^ 
Mr Cockayne, Mr Gibbs, Mr Way, the Hon. G. P. Marsh — and to Mr 
K Brock, the most careful copier of the MS., my best thanks are due^ 
and are hereby tendered. Would that thanks of any of us now 
profiting by their labours could reach the ears of that prince of 

1 The MS. has no title. The one printed I have mado vp from bits of the text. 



PREFACE TO RUSSELL. CXV 

Dictionaiy-makers, Cotgrave, of Frater Galfridus, Palsgrave, Hex- 
ham, PhilippSy and the rest of the lexicographers who enable us to 
undeistand the records of the past ! Would too that an adequate 
expression of gratitude could reach the ears of the lost Nicolas, and 
of Sir Frederic Madden, for their carefully indexed Household 
Books, — t-o be contrasted with the unwieldy mass and clueless mazes 
of the Antiquaries' Houaehcld Ordinances, the two volumes of the 
Boxbuighe Howard Household BookSy and Percy's Northumberland 
Household Book ^ ! — ^They will be spared the pains of the special 
place of torment reserved for editors who turn out their books with- 
out glossary or index. May that be their sufficient reward ! 



3, St Georges Square, N.W. 
16 Dee,, 1866. 



1 StOl one is truly thankful for ihe material in theae unindexed bookt. 



i2 



CXVl APPENDIX TO RUSSELL PREFACE. 



HUMPHREY, DUKE OF GLOUCESTER. 

Mr C. H. Pearson has referred me to a most curious treatise on 
the state of Duke Humphrey's body and health in 1404 (that is, 1424, 
says Heame), by Dr Gilbert Kymer, his physician, part of which 
(chapters 3 and 19, with other pieces) was printed by Heame in the 
appendix to his Liher NigeVy v. ii. p. 550 {ed, cUL), from a MS. then 
in Sir Hans Sloane's Collection, and now Sloane 4 in the British 
Museum. It begins at p. 127 or folio 63, and by way of giving the 
reader a notion of its contents, I add here a copy of the first page of 
the MS. 

Incipit dietarium de sanitatis custodia preinclitissi77u> principi ac 
metuendissimo dommo,dammohumfrido,duci Gloucestrie, Alijsqu^ 
preclaris titulis insignito, Scriptum & co7?ipilatum, 'per yen^rabilem 
doctore?/!^ Magistru7?i Gilbertum Kymer, Medicinarum professorem, 
arcium ac philosophic M&gUtTum & in legibti^ bacallarium prelibati 
principis phisicum, Cuiz^^ dietarij* colleccionem (?) dilucidancia & 
effectum viginti sex existunt capiti/la, quorum C(7nsequent^ hie ordo 
ponitur Eubricarum *. 

Capitulum 1*" est epi^ola de laude sanitattV & vtilitate bone diete. 
C&pitulum 2™ est de illis in quibtiA consistit dieta. 
C&pitulum 3" de tocit^^ co[r]pori8 & parcium disposicfone. 
Capitulum 4"* est de Ayere eligendo & corrigendo. 
CsLpittdum 5^ de quantitate cibi & potus sumenda. 
Ca,pitulum. 6" de ordine sumendi cibum & potu;?^. 
Cekpitulum 7" de tempore sumendi cibum & potuwi. 
CsLpitulum 8" de qt^antitate cibi & potus sumendoru/n. 
Capi^tim 9" de pane eligendo. 
GeLpittdum 10"^ de genenbt^« potagiorz/m sumendis. 

1 The letters are to me more like cl, or coA than anything elie, hut I am not sure 
what they are. 

> The MS. nins on without breaks. 



RUSSELL PREFACB : — HUMPHREY, DUKE OF GLOUCESTER. CXvii 

C&piiulicm 11" de carnib?^ vtendis & vitandis. 

CtLpitulum. 12™ de ouis sumendis. 

Capiiitltan 13™ de lacticinijs vtendz^. 

Capt/ti/um 14™ depiscibt/^ vtendis & vitandttr. 

CttpitulujD. 15™ de frnctibz^ sumendis. 

C&pitulum 16™ de condimentt^ & sp^eiebus vtendis. 

Cap^fiZt^m 17™ de potu eligendo. 

Capitidimx 18™ de regimine leplec/onis & inanici'onis. 

Cap/Zv/um 19™ de vsu coitus. 

CapfVziZum 20™ de excercicto & qmete. 

Ca^itulum 21™ de sompni & vigilie regimine. 

Capittdum 22™ de vsu accte^ncium anime. 

C&pittUum 23™ de bona c(772suetudine diete tenenda. 

CapvYuZum 24™ de medicmis vicissim vtendis. 

CApifulum 25™ de aduersis nature infortunijs pr^cauendis. 

CapiYuZum 26™ de deo semper colendo vt sanitate^Ti melius tueatur. 

Sharon Turner (Hist of England^ v. 498, note 35) says euphemis- 
tically of the part of this treatise printed by Heame, that ** it implies 
how much the Duke had injured himself by the want of self-govern- 
ment. It describes him in his 45th year, as having a rheumatic af- 
fection in his chest, with a daily morning cough. It mentions that 
his nerves had become debilitated by the vehemence of his laborious 
exercises, and &om an immoderate frequency of pleasurable in- 
dulgences. It advises, him to avoid north winds after a warm sun, 
sleep after dinner, exercise after society, frequent bathings, strong 
wine, much fruit, the flesh of swine, and the weakening gratification 
to which he was addicted. The last (chapter), *De Deo semper colendo, 
ut sanitatem melius tueatur,' is worthy the recollection of us alL" It 
is too late to print the MS. in the present volume, but in a future one 
it certainly ought to appear. 

Of Duke Humphrey's character and proceedings after the Pope's 
bull had declared his first marriage void, Sharon Turner further says : 

" Gloucester had found the rich dowry of Jacqueline wrenched 
from his grasp, and, from so much opposition, placed beyond his 
attaining, and he had become satiated with her person. One of her 



CXVm APPENDIX TO RUSSELL PREFACE. 

attendants, Eleanor Cobham, had affected his variable fancy ; and tho' 
her character had not been spotless before, and she had surrendered 
her honour to his own importunities, yet he suddenly married her, 
exciting again the wonder of the world by his conduct, as in that 
proud day every nobleman felt that he was acting incongruously with 
the blood he had sprung from. His first wedlock was impolitic, and 
this unpopular ; and both were hasty and self-willed, and destructive 
of all reputation for that dignified prudence, which his elevation to 
the regency of the most reflective and enlightened nation in Europe 
demanded for its example and its welfare. This injudicious conduct 
announced too much imperfection of intellect, not to give every ad- 
vantage to his pohtical rival the bishop of Winchester, his uncle, who 
was now struggling for the command of the royal mind, and for the 
predominance in the English government. He and the duke of 
Exeter were the illegitimate brothers of Henry the Fourth, and had 
been first intrusted with the king's education. The internal state of 
the country, as to its religious feelings and interest, contributed to in- 
crease the differences which now arose between the prelate and his 
nephew, who is described by a contemporaay as sullying his culti- 
vated understanding and good qualities, by an imgovemed and 
diseasing love of unbecoming pleasures. It is strange, that in so old 
a world of the same continuing system always repeating the same 
lesson, any one should be ignorant that the dissolute vices are the 
destroyers of personal health, comfort, character, and permanent in- 
fluence." ' 

After narrating Duke Humphrey's death. Turner thus sums up 
his character : — 

" The duke of Gloucester, amid failings that have been before 
alluded to, has acquired the pleasing epithet of The Good ; and has 
been extolled for his promotion of the learned or deserving clergy. 
Fond of literature, and of literary conversation, he patronized men of 
talent and erudition. One is called, in a public record, his poet and 
orator ; and Lydgate prefaces one of his voluminous works, with a 
panegyric upon him, written during the king's absence on his French 

* Sharon Turner's Bistory of England, vol. v. pp. 496—8. 



RUSSELL preface: — HUMPHREY, DUKE OF GLOUCESTER. CXIX 

coronation^ which presents to us the qualities for which, while he was 
livingy the poet found him remarkable, and thought fit to commend 
him." 

These verses are in the Royal MS. 18 D 4, in the British Museum, 
and are here printed from the MS., not from Turner : — 

[Foi. 4.1 Eek in this lond — I dar afferme a thyng — 
Ther is a prince Ful myhty of puyssaunce, 
A kynges sone, yncle to the kynge 
Henry the sexte which is now in frau/ice, 
And is lieftenant, & hath the gouemaunce 
Off our bieteyne ; thoruh was discrecion 
He hath conserued in this regiou?^ 

Duryng his tyme off ful hihe * prudence 
Pes and quiete, and sustened rmt^.' 
3it natwithstandyng his noble prouydcrice 
He is in deede prouyd a good knyht, 
£ied as argiis with reson and forsiht ; 
Off hih6 lectrure I dar eek off hym telle, 
And treuli deeme that he doth^ excelle 

In vndirstondyng all othir of his age, 
And hath gret loie with clerkis to commune ; 
And no man is mor expert off language. 
Stable in studie alwei he doth contune, 
I Settyng a side alle chau rages* of fortune ; ' 
And wher he louethe, jiff I schal nat tarie, 
Witheoute cause ful lothe he is to varie. 

Due off Gloucestre men this prince calle ; 

And natwithstandyng his staat & dignyte, 

His corage neuer doth appalle 

To studie in bookis off antiquite ; 

Therin he hathe so gret felicite 

Vertuousli hym silit* to ocupie. 

Off vicious slouth to haue the maistrie.' 

^ TbeM €'B represent the rtrokes through the A-a. * MS. thannges. 

> This is the stanza qaoted hj Dr Reinhold Paali in his BUdtr gus Alt'£HfUind^ 
c. xi. p. 349 : 

^' Uerzog Ton Glocester nennen rie den Fiirsten, 
Der trotz des hohen Rangs and hoher Bhren 
Im Hcrzen nahrt ein danemdes Geliisten 
Nach Allem, was die alten Biicher lehren ; 
So glucklich gross ist hierin sein Begehren, 
Baas tngendsam er seine Zeit verhringt 
Und tninkne Tragheit mannigUch beswingt*' 

The reader should hy all means consult this chapter, which is headed " Herzog 



CXX APPENDIX TO RUSSELL PREFACE. 

And with bis prudence & wit his manheed 
Trouthe to susteyne he fauour set a side ; 
And hooli chiiche meyntenyng in dede, 
That in this land no lollard dar abide. 
As venrai support, vpholdere, & eek guyde, 
Spareth non, but maketh^ hym silfif strong 
To punysshe alle tho that do the chirche wrong. 

Thus is he both manly A eek wise, 
Chose of god to be his owne knyhte ; 
And off o thynge he hath a synguler ' price, 
That heretik dai non comen in his siht«. 
In cristes feithe he stant so hoi vpriht, 
Off hooli chirche defence and [cjhampion 
To chastise alle that do therto treson. 

And to do plesance to oure lord ihe^ 
He studieht ' eue7-e to haue intelligence. 
Eeedinge off bookis bringthe in vertu, — 
Vices excludyng, slouthe & necligence, — 
Makethe a prince to haue experience 
To know hym silff in many sundry wise, 
Wher he trespaseth, his errour to chastise. 

After mentioning that the duke had considered the book of 
* Boccasio, on the Fall of Princes,' he adds, * and he gave me com- 
mandment, that I should, after my conning, this book translate him 
to do plesance.' MS. 18 D 4. — Sharon Turner's History of Eng- 
land^ voL vi. pp. 66 — 7. 



P.S. When printing the 1513 edition of Wynkjn de Worde's Boke of 
Keruifnge, I was not aware of the existence of a copy of the earlier edition iu 
the Cambridge University Library. Seeing this copy afterwards named in 
Mr Hazlitt's new cataiogne, I asked a friend to compare the present reprint 
with the first edition, and the result follows. 



Hamfrid Ton Glooeater. Brachstiick eines Fiirstenlebens im funfzehnten Jahrhun- 
derte*' (Hamphrey Dake of Gloucester. Sketch of the life of a prince in the 
fifteenth century). There is an excellent English translation of this book, published 
by MacmilUn, and entitled "Pictures of Old England."— W. W. Skeat 

' The / is rubbed. ' So iu MS. 



RUSSELL PREF. : — ^KOTE ON THE 1508 SOKE OF RERUYNGE. CXXl 



ft 



NOTE ON THE 1508 EDITION OF 
TAe Bote of Keruynge, 

BY THE BEY. WALTER SKEAT^ M.A. 

The title-page of the older edition, of 1508, merely contaiDS the words, 
*' % Here begynneth the boke of Eerujnge j " and beneath them is— as in 
the second edition of 1513— a pictare of two ladies and two gentlemen at 
dinner, with an attendant bringing a dish, two servants at a side table, and a 
jester. The colophon tells us that it was " Enprynted by wynkyn de worde 
at London in Flete atrete at the sygne of the sonne. The yere of our lorde 
M.CCCCC.Vm ; " beneath which is Wynkyn de Worde's device, as in the 
second edition. 

The two editions resemble each other very closely, running page for page 
throughout, and every folio in the one begins at the same place as in the 
other. Thus the word " moche " is divided into mo-che in both editions, the 
"-che " banning Fol. A ii. h. Neither is altogether free from misprints, but 
these are not very numerous nor of much importance. It may be observed 
that marks of contraction are hardly ever used in the older edition, the word 
y«** being written "the" at length, and instead of "haged" we find 
hanged." On the whole, the first edition would seem to be the more care- 
fully printed, but the nature of the variations between them will be best 
understood by an exact collation of the first two folios (pp. 265-7 of the present 
edition), where the readings of the first edition are denoted by the letter A. 
The only variations are these : — 

P. 265. Igfl that swanne] l^JU that swanne A (a misprifU). 

fru$ske that chekynj/rv^A^ that chekyn A. 

tbye all maner ^ small byrdes] A omiU of. 

fynne that cheuen],;Jrfftf that cheuen A. 

trofutene that ele] tras^ene that ele A. 

Here kendeth, &c.] Here ettdeth, &c, A. 

Butler] ButtelerA. 
P. 266, 1. 6. ireaekoures] trenchours A. 

L 12. kaoffed} hanged A. 

1. 15. eanMeUe$\ canelies A. 

1. 18, 19. f] the (m both places) A. 

L 20. teoiowi] seasons A. 

L 23. after] After A. 

1. 27. goo^ goot A. 

L 30. y] the A. 

1. 34. modaci] modon A. 

1. 36. touragne] souerayne A. 



CXxii NOTE ON THE 1508 BOKE OF KERUYNGE. 

P. 267. y«] the A (several ii»tes). 
1. 5. fey//] wyl A. 

1. 9. rede'] reed A. rebo^le] rebojlc not A. 
1. 12. the rebojle] they rebojle A. 
1. 17. leesyiige] lesynge A. 
L 20. campolei] campolet A. 
1. 21. tyerl tyerre A, 

L 22. ypocrcui] Ipocras A (jind U the next liHe, and /. 26). 
1. 24. gynger'] gynger A. 
1. 27. ren] hange A. 
1. 29. your"] youre A. 
In I. 33, A has paradico, as in the second edition. 

It will be readily seen that these variations are chiefly in the spelling, and 
of a trivial character. The only ones of any importance are, on p. 5, lyste 
(which is a misprint) for lyftf and trassene for transsene (cp. Fr. transon, a trun- 
cheon, peece of. Cot.) ; on p. 6, goot for good is well worth notice (if any 
meaning can be assigned to goat), as the direction to beware of good straw- 
berries is not obvioos ; on p. 7, we should note lesynge for lessynge^ and 
hange for ren^ the latter being an improvement, though ren makes sense, as 
basins hung by cords on a perch may, like curtains hung on a rod, be said to 
run on it. The word ren was probably caught up from the line above it in 
reprinting. 

The following corrections are also worth making, and are made on the 
authority of the first edition : — 

P. 269, L 10, For treachour read trenchour. 

1. 23. For so read se. 

1. 24f. For se' read se. 
P. 270, 1. 1, onyl on A.; 

1. 7. For it read is. 

1. 15. ^ «o] and soo A. (Ko doubt owing to confusion beticeen & and y«.) 

1. 16. your'] you A. 

1. 29. For bo read be. 
P. 271, 1. 20. For wich read with. 
P. 272, 1. 3. For fumosytces read fumosytees. 
1. 7. For pygous read pynyons (whence it appears that the pinion-hoxie^, 

not pigeon^ S'hone^t are meant). 
1. 25. The word "reyfe" is quite plain. 
P. 274, U. 18, &c. There is some variation here ; the first edition has, after 
the word souerayne, the following : — " laye trenchours before hym / yf he be 
a grete estate, lay fyue trenchours / & he be of a lower degre, foure trench- 
ours / & of an other degre, thre trenchours," &c. This is better ; the second 
edition is clearly wrong about i\itJioe trenchers. This seems another error 
made in reprinting, the words lower degre being wrongly repeated. 
P. 275, 1. 6. It may be proper to note the first edition also has broehe. 
P. 279, 1. 8. For for y« read for they. 



BUSSBLL PREF. : — ^NOTB ON THE 1408 OOKE OF KERUTNGE. CXXiii 

P. 279, L 27. iiely] ; in A /% ii printed infnll. 

P. 280, 1. 18. Far raysyua read njsyns. 

P. 281, L 21. For sljtee read sljtte. 

P. 283, II. 10, 18. earpentes] carpettes A. 
L 14. thaU\ shake A. 
L 23. blanked] blanket A. 

Nearly all the above correotiona have already been made in the side-notes. 
Only two of them are of any importance, viz. the substitution of pynyons on 
p. 12, and the variation of reading on p. 14 ; in the latter case perhaps 
neither edition seems quite right, though the first edition is quite in- 
telligible. 

In our Cambridge edition (see p. 24, L 5) this line about the pope is care- 
fully struck Ottt» and the grim side-note put " lower down *', with tags to show 
to what estate he and the cardinal and bishops ought to be degraded ! 



NOTE TO p. XXIT. L. 10, «0UB WOMEN/' AND THEIR KNOWLEDGE 

OF LANGUAGES, r. zxt-vz. 

f fee f alW8 & 3Jtn 0f i^mxi (BYiiM^i tfonrt. 

^ I might here (if I would, or had sufficient disposi- 
tion of matter conceiued of the same) make a large 
discouise of such honorable ports, of such graue coun- 
cellors, and noble personages, as giue their dailie at- 
tendance ypon the queues maiestie there. I could in 
like sort set foorth a singular commendation of the 
yertuoiis beautie, or beautifuU vertues of such ladies 
and gentlewomen as wait vpon hir person, betweene 
whose amiable countenances and costlinesse of attire, 
there s^meth to be such a dailie conflict and conten- 
tion, as that it is verie difficult for me to gesse, whether 
of the twaine shall beare awaie the preheminence. This 
further is not to be omitted, to the singular commend. Eng||,h ooartien 
ation of both sort« and sexes of our courtiers here in *[»«**•* i«ra«<> 

& ine wont 

England, that there are verie few of them, which haue w™^«» 



CXXIV 



THE LADIES OF ELIZABETH 8 COURT. 



[Ladies l4Mrn«d 
In Iangtui9e8.j 



[Ancient Udlea' 
emplojmenU.] 



[Young ladies' 
recreatiobs.] 



[Old ladles' skiU 
in surgeiy, Ac] 



not the vse and skill of sundrie speaches, beside an ex- 
cellent veine of writing before time not regarded. 
Would to God the rest of their Hues and conuersations 
were correspondent to these gifts ! for as our common 
courtiers (for the most part) are the best lemed and 
indued with excellent gifts, so are manie of them the 
worst men when they come abroad, that anie man shall 
either heare or read of. Trulie it is a rare thing with 
vs now, to heare of a courtier which hath but his owne 
language. And to sale how many gentlewomen and 
ladies there are, that beside sound knowledge of the 
Greeke and Latine toongs, are thereto no lesse skilfull 
in the Spanish, Italian, and French, or in some one of 
them, it resteth not in me : sith I am persuaded, that 
as the noble men and gentlemen doo surmount in this 
behalfe, so these come verie little or nothing at all 
behind them for their parts ; which industrie God con' 
tinuo, and accomplish that which otherwise is want- 
ing I 

" Beside these things I could in like sort set downe 
the waies and meanes, wherby our ancient ladies of the 
court doo shun and auoid idlenesse, some of them ex- 
ercising their fingers with the needle, other in caul- 
worke, diuerse in spinning of silke, some in continuall 
reading either of the holie scriptures, or histories of our 
owne or forren nations about vs, and diuerse in writing 
volumes of their owne, or translating of other mens into 
our English and Latine toong, whilest the yoongest 
sort in the meane time applie their lutes, cithames, 
prickesong, and all kind of musike, which they vse 
pnelie for recreation sake, when they haue leisure, and 
are fr^e from attendance vpon the qu^enes maiestie, or 
such as they belong vnto. How manie of the eldest 
sort also are skilfull in surgerie and distillation of 
waters, beside sundrie other artificiall practises pertein- 
ing to the ornature and commendations of their bodies, 



NOTE TO FORBWORDS. ELIZABETH'S COURT-LADIES. CXXV 

I might (if I listed to deale further in this behalfe) 

easilie declare, but I passe ouer such maner of dealing, 

least I should s^eme to glauer, and currie fauour with 

some of them. Neuerthelesse this I will generallie saie 

of them all, that as ech of them are cuning in somthing C^ *^ canning 

wherby they k^epe themselues occupied in the court, so 

there is in maner none of them, but when they be at 

home, can helpe to supplie the ordinarie want of the 

kitchen with a number of delicat dishes of their owne 

deuising, wherein the Port^igall is their ch^efe coun- in oookeiy, helped 

seller, as some of them are most commonlie with the portiwaeee.] 

clearke of the kitchen, who vseth (by a tricke taken vp 

of late) to ciue in a breefe rehearsall of such and so C'ntroduction of 

manie dishes as are to come in at euerie course through- 

out the whole seruice in the dinner or supper while : 

which bill some doo call a memoriall, other a billet, Memorial, 

but some a fillet, bicause such are commonlie hanged Fuiet.] 

on the file, and kept by the ladie or gentlewoman vnto 

some other purpose. But whither am I digressed ? " — 

1577, W. Harrison, in HoUnshecCs Chronicles^ vpl. I. 

p. 196, ed. 1586. 



COLLATIONS. 



These are gi^en m % waming to other editon either to ooUate in foot-notes or not at 
alL The present plan takes up as much room as priuting % finesh text would, and gi?es 
needless trouble to everj one oonoemed. 

p. 11. The ABC o/Aristaile, Ear]. MS. 1706, fol. 94, collated by Mr Brock, 
omLU the prologue, and begins after 1. 14 with, "Here be-gjnnethtf 
Arystoles ABC. made be mayster Benett." 

A, for argue not read Angre the 

B, omii ne ; /or not to large read thou nat to brode 

E, „ „ ; /or to eemesful read ne curyons 

Yt/or fers, famuler, freendli, read Ferde, familier, frenfulU 

G, omit to ; /or & gelosie )k>u hate, read Ne to galauut never 

"Hf/or in Hi^e read off 

1,/or iettynge read locnnde ; /or iape not to read loye thow nat 

K, omit to and & ; /or knaue read knaves 

It, /or for to leene read ne to lovyng ; /or goodis read woordys 

My /or medelaa read Mellous ; /or but as mesure wole it meeue read ne to 

besynesse vnleffolltf 
"Si/or ne use no new iettis read ne noughts to neffangle 
0,/or ouer^wart read ouertwarth^ ; ybr & ool^is )k>u hate read Ne othez to 

haunte 
Q, /or quarelose read querelous ; /or weel ^ure souereyns read men tJle 

abowte 
R, omit the eecond to ; /or not to rudeli read thou nat but ly te 
S,/or ne straungeli to stare read Ne starte nat abowte 
T,/or for temperaunce is best read But temperate euer^ 
"^t/or ne &o. read ne violent Ne waste nat to moche 
W,/or nei^r &c. read Ne to wysedeme the 
%/or is euere ^ beste of read ys best for vs 
Add Z Y Z z y wych^ esed & p^ se. 

TytelL? TytelLf Tytelk than Esta Amen. 



COLLATIONS OF LTTTLLE CHILDRBNES LYTIL BOKE. CXXVU 

p. 16. Tie fytflle CAildreMet fyiil Boke^ with part of the Advocates Library 

MS., fol. 84, back (colUted by Mr David Laing). 
L l^fir children read childur 
1. S, dele >at ; L 3 dele For 
I. 6,ybr with mary, read oure Lady 
1. 7,Jor arfi read byn 

1. 9, prejix Forst to Loke, and/or wasshe read wasshyd 
L \%for tylle read to 
1. 13, prefix And to Loke 
L 14, M, To he y* reweleth y« howse y« bytt 
L 16, put the that between loke ^jm/ on 
1. VI ^ for without any faylys read withowtte fayle 
L 18,yor hnngery aylys read empty ayle 
1. 20, /or ete esely read etett eysely 
p. 18, 1. 25,^r mosselle read moraselle 

1. 26, /or in read owt of 

1. 30,y&r Into thy rwri nor in the ; for thy salte read hit 

1. 31,/or fayre on \i read on a 

1. 32,/or The byfore read Byfore the ; and dele Jjyne 

U. 33-4, are Pyke not y* tethe wyth y* knyfe 
Whyles y™ etyst be y* lyfe 
The poem in the Advocates* MS. has 108 lines, and fills 6 pages of the MS. 
(Wynkyn de Worde*s version ends with this, after 1. 105, ' And in his laste 
ende wyth the swete Ihesus. Amen. Here endeth the boke of cnrtesye.' 



p. 16. The lytylle Childrenes Lytil Boke collated with the Cambridge Uni« 
versity MS., by Mr Henry Bradshaw. Hem is always written for him 
in this MS., and so with other words. 
1. i,for wrytyne read brekeyd 
1. 6, for Elizabeth read cortesey 
1. 7, for closide read dodyd 
1. 10,/or on read yn 
1. 11, 12, /or J»on readje 
1. 14,/or hous the bydde read hall )?e beyt 
1. l^,for \>e read they 
1. 16,/or on read no 
1. 17, /or any faylys read fayle 
1. 18, /or aylys read heydyt 
1. 19,/>r Ete . . hastely read yet . . hastey 
1. 20, prefix Bot to Abyde ; for esely read all yesley 
p. 18, L 23,/or Kerue not thy brede read Kot they bred not 

1. 24, if Ne to theke bat be-tweyn 

1. 25,/or mosselle read mossels ; for bcgynnysse to read dost 

1. 26, /w in read owt of 

1. 27, /or on read yn 



CXXVni COLLATIONS OF LYTYLLE GHILDRENBS LYTIL BOKE. 

p. 18, U. 28-30, are Ne yu they met, fcys, ne fleys. * 

Pat not thy mete ya J^ey salt seleyr 

1. 32, f> Be-fore the, that ys worschep 

1. 33, for ne read nother 

1. 34, /or If read And ; for come read comest 

1. 35,ybr And read Seche ; put the is before yn 

1. ^7, for Ete . . by read Kot . . yn 

1. 38, prefx And to Fylle ; omit done 

1. 40, is Weyles thou hetys, bey they leyffe 

1. ^iyfor f»ow pat read tajce owt 

1. 4t%yfor Ne read Nether 

1. 44, M For no cortesey Let ys not habell 

I. ^^yfor Elbowe . . fyst r»«rfElbowhes . . fystys 

1. ^^,for whylis J>at read wheyle 

1. 47, is Bolk not as a bolle yn the crofte 

1. iiSyfor karle l^at read charle ; for cote read cotte 

1. 50, for of hyt or J>oa art read the or ye be 

1. bl,for sterke read lowde 
p. 20, I. 52, is all of cartesy loke ye carpe 

1. S^,for at read all ; omit loke >oa 

1. 5i,for Loke ^oa rownde not read And loke ye 

1. 55, omit thy ; for and read ne 

1. 5Q,for doo read make 

1. 51, for laughe not read no)«r laughe 

L 58, for with moche speche read thow meche speke ; for mayst read may 

1. 59, for fist ne read ner ; and/or the second ne read not 

1. 60, for fayre and stylle read stere het not 

1. 61, for thy read the 

1. 66, omit a 

1. 67, for I rede of read of j redde )>e of 

1. 68, y^r nej>er read neuer ; omit yn }»i i^r<? drynk 

1. 69, for |»at r^M? they 

1. 7*^9 for f»ou see read be saye 

1. 76, for }K)a rwrf jow,for thow art r^ari yow ar 

!• 77, for forthe r^tf^? before yow 

1. 78, omit \>ow not 

1. 79 f for ynto r^<3f«? yn 
p. 22, 1. 83,/or ende read hendyng 

1. Si, for wasshen read was 

1. 85,^r worthy read wortheyor 

I. 86, ^r to- read be- ; omit & ; for \>i prow read gcntyll cortespy 

II. 87, 88, 89, are omitted. 

1. 90, for nether read not ; for ne read ne with 
1. 91, omit H ; for the hede read they lorde 
1. 92,ybr hyghly read mekeley 
I. 93, for togydre ynsame read yn the same manere 



COLLATIONS OF BHODBS's SOKE OF NURTURE. 



CXXIX 



p. 22, 1. 9-^ /or no blame read the same 

1. 95, /or therafter read hereafter 

1. 96, q/ier that add he ys ; /or was heere read {sere aftjr 

1. 97, omii lud ; /or dispiseth read dispise 

1. 99, /or Nether read neuer 

1. 100,/or Ner read ne 

1. 101, a/ler for add sent 

L 102, /or Lonyth this boke read Loren this lesen 

1. 103, omU and ; /or made read wret 

1. 136, is omitted, 
p. 24, 1. 107, before vs pui hem and 

1. 108, /or the Jirst Amen read Sey all ; /or the Explicit &c. read 
Expleycyt the Boke of oortesey. 



Note on the variations of ColwcU*s and Yeale*s editions o( Mhodeis B^ 
o/ Nurture. 

The small differences are so many from the 1577 edition, that the giving 
of them all would cost too much money and take up too much space for the 
▼ery small advantage to be gained from them. If we ever print PetiVs edition, 
then the collations of ColwelPs and Veale's editions can be easily given with 
it, as that is the edition from which they were probably altered, and the 
changes are more within compass, though the words are often different. 
Of the more important alterations I give here a few by way of specimen. 
Others have been given in the last pages of the Prefaoe to Rhodes, above. 



Petit, CulicelL 

Also to appose your Also apose your scr- 

seruauntes yf they can uantes of theyr beleife, 

Ihcyr byleue : also yf and also yf they brynge 

they bryng anye thynge auye thynge home that 



home that is mysse 
taken, or tell tales, or 
newes of detraccyou, ye 
shall then sharpiye re- 
prone them / yf they 
wyll not leme, auoyde 
them out of your house. 
For it is great quyetnes 
to haue people of good 
fassyon in your house. 
•Nor apparell not your 
chyldren or seruauntes 
that are of lefuU dys- 
crecyon in sumptuous 
apparelI,for it encreaseth 
pryde and obstinacy & 
many other eaylcs of- 
tymes. 



is misse taken, or tell 
tales or newes of de- 



Feale. 
Also to appose your 
seruauts : ir thejr can 
there beleefe, also if they 
bring amy thing hdme 
that ia' misse taken or 
tel tales, or newes of 



traction, ye shall then detraction, ye shall tlien 

reproue tnem sharpely, reproue them sharply if 

if they will not learne, they wil not learne, 

auoid them out of your auoid the out of vour 

house : for it is great house. Nor apparel not 

quietnes to haue people your Children or ser- 

of good facion in a nouse. uants that are of lawful 



Apparell not your chil- 
dren or seruauntes that 
are of lawful discretion 
in sumtuou.H apparel: for 
it encreaseth pride and 
obstinacie, and many 
other euils oft times. 



discretion in sumptuous 
apparel for it is great 
quietnes to haue People 
of good fashion in your 
house. 



CXXX COLLATIONS OP RHODES's BOKE OF NURTURE. 

Few wordes in a seruaut / shewelh in hi good comendaciGs 

Such as be of moch spech / no bout \Jor dout] thej be of yll operacjGs 

To bolde with honest men / that arc in degre aboue the. 

{Pelit, sign. B. iii.) 
Few wordes in a seruaunt, deserueth comraendacions 
Suche as be of niuche speche, be of eujli operations 
Be not to boldc with men aboue thee in degree. 

{Colvell, sign. B. iii.) 
Few woords in a seraant dserueth [«o] commendations 
Such as be of much speech, be of euil operations 
Be not to bolde with men aboue thee in degree. — {Feale, B. iii.) 

If thou wjU take no paync in youth / & wyll be called wyse 

Thou muste take payne in age / and be full of vyce 

Let measure guyde the in welthe / a tyme to the is but lent. 

(Petit, sign. C. i.) 
Take paine in youth if thou uilt be called wise 
Or thou must take it in age, and be full of vice 
Kepe measure in wealth, a tyme is to the lent.— {Colwell, sign. C. i.) 

Take pain in youth if thou wilt be calld againe 

Or thou must take it in age and be ful of vice 

Keep measure in welth, a time is to thee lent. — {Feale, B. iii.) 

An yreful body is neuer quyet, nor in rest where he doth dwel 
One amonge .x. is ix. to many, his malyce is so cruell. 

{Petit, sign. C- i.) 
There is neuer quiet, where angry folke dwell, 
Ten is nyne to many, theyr malyce is so cruell. — (Coltcellt sign. C. i.) 

There is neuer quiet, where angry folk dwel 

Ten, is nyne to manie, their malice is so cr\ie\.—{Feale, C. i.) 

Neither Colwell's nor Yeale's edition contains The Rule of Honest Ltuin^, 



For a note on the first edition of Rhodes by Johan Redman, and a copy 
of the Title page of East's edition, see Corrigenda, &c., p. cxxxii. 



ex XXI 



CORRIGENDA, ADDITIONAL NOTES, &o. 



p. iv. I. 6. ' Your Bele Babees are very like the Memnos of the Court of 
Spain, & Menins of that of France, young nobles brought up with the joung 
Princes/ H. Reeve. 

p. iv. L 12, /or of . . Statutes read on . . Studies 

p. V. last line. This is not intended to confine the definition of Music as 
taught at Oxford to its one division of Harmomeat to the exclusion of the 
others, Sythmicat Metrical &c. The Arithmetic said to have been studied 
there in the time of Edmund the Confessor is defined in his Life (MS. about 
1310 A.D.) in my E, E, Poem ^ Lives, of Saints, 1862, thus, 

Arsmetrike is a lore : I'at of figours al is 

& of drau^tes as me drawe)> in poudre : & in numbre iwis. 

p. X. last line, for Books read Book ' 

p. xviii. 1. 16. The regular Cathedral school would have existed at St 
David's. 

p. xix., note*. "There are no French universities, though we find every 
now and then some humbug advertising himself in the Times as possessing a 
degree of the Paris University. The old Universities belong to the time oe- 
fore the Deluge— that means before the Revolution of 1789. The University 
of France is the organized whole of the higher and middle institutions of 
learning, in so far as they are directed by the State, not the clergy. It is an 
institution more governmental, according to the genius of the country, than 
our London University, to which, however, its organization bears some resem- 
blance. To speak of it in one breath with Oxford or Aberdeen is to commit the 
. • error of confounding two things, or placing them on the same line, because 
they have the same name." — ^£. Oswald, in The English Leader^ Aug. 10, 1867. 

p. xxiv. 1. 9,/or 1574 read 1577. 

p. XXV. 1. 17, related apparently. " The first William de Valence married 
Joan de Monchesni, sister-in-law to one Dionysia, and liunt to another.'* 
The Chronicle, Sept. 21, 1867. 

p. XX vi. One of the inquiries ordered by the Articles issued by Arch* 
bishop Cranmer, in a,d. 1548, is, " Whether Parsons, Vicars, Clerks and other 
beneficed men, having yearly to dispend an hundred pound, do not find, com- 
petently, one scholar m the University of Cambridge or Oxford, or some 
fframmar school ; and for as many hundred pounds as every of them may 
dispend, so many scholars likewise to be found [sup]K)rted] by them ; and 
what be their names that they so find." Toulmin Smith, The Parish, p. 95. 
Compare also in Church- Wardens Accompts of St Margaret's, Westminster 
(ed^ Jn. Nichols, p. 41). 



CZXXU CORBiaENDA, NOTES, ETC. 

1631. Item, to Richard Basby, a king's schoUer of Westminster, towards 

enabling him to proceed master of arts at Oxon, bj consent of the 

vestrie £6. 13. 4. 

1628. Item, to Richard Busbr, by consent of the vestry, towards 

enabling him to proceed bacheior of arts £5. 0. 0. 

Nichols, p. 38. See too p. 37. 

p. xxyii. Roger Bacon died, perhaps, 11 June, 1292, or in 1294. Book 
of Dates, 

p. xxvii., dele note 3. ' The truth is that, in his account of Oxford and 
its early days, Mr Hallam quotes John of Salisbury, not as asserting that 
Yacarius tausht there, but as making " no mention of Oxford at all " ; while 
he gives for the statement about the law school no authority whatever beyond 
his general reference throughout to Anthony Wood. But the fact is as 
historical as a fact can well be, and the authority for it is a passage in one of 
the best of the contemporary authors, Gervaise of Canterbury. " Tunc leges 
et causidici in Ansliam primo vocati sunt," he says in his account of Theolrald 
in the Acts of the Archbishops, ''quorum primus erat magister Yacarius. 
Hie in Oxonefordii legem docuit." ' E. A. r. 

p. xxxui. note, 1. t,for St Paul's read St Anthony's 

pk xxxiv., /^r sister read brother 

p. xlv. 1. iyfor poor read independent. ' Fitz-Stephen says on the parents 
of St Thomas, " Nec[ue foenerantibus neque officiose negotiautibus, eed de 
tedditibus suis honorifice viventibus." E. A. F. 

p. liii. Thetford. See also p. xli. 

p. Ixvii., for Browne read Bourne 

p. Ixxii. 1. 6 from foot, /or Jounes read Jonnes 

?. Ixxxvi.-vii. Editione of Rhodes. Mr W. C. Hazlitt writes, Oct. 18th, 
, '' I dare say it will set your mouth watering when I tell you that I have 
discovered a very much earlier edition of Rhodes. It was printed about 15 
years before Petit's— about 1530, that is. At present 1 can tell you no more, 
except that the colophon is : Imprynted at Loudon in Southwarke by me 
Johan Redman. It is a 4to. of 12 leaves." Lord Ashbumham writes to say 
that he has a copy of East's edition of 1568. A transcript of its Title-page 
has lately turned up in a collection, and Mr W. C. Hazlitt has been good 
enough to send me an advance-proof of this Title as entered in his Handbook, 
as follows : — 

" The Book of Nurture for men seruantes and children (with stans puer 
ad mensam). Hereunto is annexed our Lords Prayer, our Beliefe, and the .x. 
Commandments . with godly Graces, to be sayde at the Table, before and 
after meat. Yery vtiie and necessary for all youth to leame. Imprinted at 
London in Breadstreet at the nether ende, by Thomas East, 1568. Oblong 
4to, 22 leaves. With a woodcut on the title, representing a master with his 
pupils. 

Bright in 1815, £16 ISi. Thin sMins to be the Mrliaet book printed by T. East At least, I And 
nothing lioenaed to him before 1568." 

p. cxiv. 1. 3, finish Part 1. A Fbstsoript of nine fresh pieces has been 
Bince added, on and after p. 366. 

p. % 1. 35,ybr you donne read yow doime 

p* 3, 1. 64., /or you read yow ; 1. 67, ituert alle between with^ and your 

p. 4, 1. 90, for youre read your* ; L 98, /or stryv* read stryve ; 1. 104, for 
you read yow 

p. 5, 1. 131, side-note, alter to 'some pour water on him^ others hold^' &c. 

p. 6, L 138, y^ own read owne 

p. 8, 1. 200, for vp/Don read vpon 

p. 9, 10* I, for cacches read tacches 



GOBAIQENDA, NOTfiS, BTO. CXXxiil 

p. 10, 1. \%,for Str<miige read Strau/ige 

p. 13, L l/for owteff read oate» 

p. 22, 1. 93, /br yn-Bame read yn same 

p. 23, 1. 131,^ A-voycb read A voyd^, a batket/or ledvif^s. 

p. 25, L 143-4^ f sense, reading corrupt. 

p. 26, Lowndes calls the original of &afu Puer ad Memam the Carmen 
Jutemle of Sulpitius. 

p. 26. The proof of this poem was either accidentally not read with the 
MS. or lost in the post : 1. Wj/or thi read thy ; 1. 14,/ar crawjhe read cracche. 

p. 28, 1. 30, for loude read lowde. TheYi of with, U. 32, 38, 47, 48, 51, 

67f yl, 84, teth, 1. 42, and myrth, 1. 43, are crossed as for \ie, 1. 34,ybr fyssh^ 

read fissh^ ; 1. 38, for thi . . thott read thy . . thow ; 1. 41, for [N Jevyr read 

[N]eiwr ; for strvfe, stry f ; L 43, /or latt, late ; 1. 46,/or alway, alwey ; 1. 48, 

for not, nat ; 1. 49, /or frome, from ; 1. 53, before alwey insert [do] 

E. 30, 1. 62, for fulfylle read fulfille ; 1. 64, for whare-so, whereso; 1. 66, 
lowe, blow ; 1. 68, for all, al ; L 79, for ouer, oiwr \ 1. 81, for meyed, 
meeved ; for parties, parties. 

p. 32, 1. 89, for refoormythe all read refoirrmytlw al ; 1. 91, for all vertue 
read al vertu ; 1. 94, for compendious, compenoious } 1. 99, for all . . John 
re€ui al . . Johne. 

p. 44, 1. 157,/>r god is read god-is 

p. 66, 1. 10 ; p. 120, 1. 51. Chipping or paring bread. '' Non comedas 
trusiam, eolorem quia gignit adustam . . . the Authour in this Text wameth 
Ys, to beware of crusts eating, because they ingender a-dust cholor, or 
raelanchoUy humours, by reason that they bee burned and dry. And therefore 
great estates the which be [pria, the] chollerick of nature, cause the 
crustes aboue and beneath to be chipped away ; wherfore the pith or crumme 
should be chosen, the which is of a greater nourishment then the crust.*' 
Regimen Sanitatis Salerni, ed. 1634, p. 71. Fr. chapplis, bread-chippings. 
Gotgrave. 

p. 122, 1. 77, for the note on plommvs, damsons, see p. 207, note on /. 177. 

p. 123, 1. 2 of notes, for Houeshold read Household 

p. 151, note ' (to 1. 521),/or p. 58 read p. 53 

p. 160, note^ I. 5,/>r nu- read un- 

p. 177, last line, for Howard Hottsekold Book read Manners ^ Household 
Expenses, 1841. 

p. 178, 1. 909, f perhaps a . comma should ao after hed, and ' his cloak or 
cape ' as a side-note. But see cappe, p. 181, 1. 964. 

p. 187, side-note 12, /or King^ read cliief 

p, 201, note to L 98, Trencher, should be to 1. 52. 

p. 203, 1. 29, /tt euit read cuit 

p. 204, 1. 6 from bottom, /or genene read geuene (u^br n). 

p. 207, last line, on 1. 177, should be on 1. 77- 

p. 209, last note, on 1. 283, Rosemary, should be at p. 225, as a note on % 
991, p. 183. 

p. 223, /or 1. 828 read 1. 835, note ^\fbr\. 838 read 1. 845. 

p. 224,/or 1. 840 read 1. 839. 

p% 231, L 34, or 10 from bottom, />r crenes read creues 

p. 235,/7r Malus in side-note. Cap. Ixi, read Mulua 

p. 247, last side-note, /?r Have a jacket of, read Line a jacket with 

p. 269, 1. 4 from bottom, for y read y 

p. 281, 1. 16,/or y read Jr 
p. 284, 1. 33,/or of read of 



CXXXIV CORRIGENDA, NOTES, ETC. 

p. 28 S, 1. 6 from bottom, /o/* p. ^77 read p. 281, 1. 8 from bottom, 
p. 297, 1. 4, for 1430-40 read 1460 
p. 302, 1. 124|/or an honest read an-honest {uupolUe) 
p. 307, 1. 267,/or be, falle, read be-falle (it befalls, becomes) 
p. 311, 1. 393, side-note, Uallt should be Hall. Fires in Uall Usted to 
Ceaa Domini^ the Xhnrsday before Easter : see 1. 39 S. Squires' allowances of 
lights ended on Feb. 2, 1 suppose. These lights, or caridle of L 839, would be 
only part of the allowances. The rest would continue all the year. See House- 
hold Ordinances & North. Hous. Book. Dr Rock savs that tne holyn or holly 
and erbere grene refer to the change on Easter Sunday described in the Liber 
Feslivalis : — '' In die pasche. Good friends ye shall know well that this day 
is called in many places Gbd's Sunday. Know well that it is the manner in 
ev^ery place of worship at this day to do thejire out of the hall ; and the black 
winter brands, and all thing that is foul with smoke shall be done away, and 
there the fire was, shall be gaily arrayed with fair flowers, and strewed with 
ffreen rushes all about, showing a great ensample to all Christian people, 
nke as they make clean their houses to the sight of the people, in the same 
wise ye should cleanse your souls, doing away the foul urenning (burning) 
sin of lechery ; put all these away, and cast out all thy smoke, dusts ; and 
strew in your soub flowers of faith and charity, and thus make your souls 
able to receive your Lord God at the Feast of Easter." — Rock's Church of the 
Future, r. iii., pt. 2, p. 250. " The holly, being an evergreen, would be more 
fit for the purpose, and makes less litter, than the bougns of deciduous trees. 
I know some old folks in Herefordshire who yet follow the custom, and keep 
the grate filled with flowers and foliage till late in the autumn." — D. R. On 
Shere-Thursday, or Gena Domini, Dr Rock quotes from the Liber Festivalis — 
" First if a man asked why Sherethursday is called so, ye may say that in 
Holy Church it is called ' Cena Domini,' our Lord's Supper Day ; for that day 
he supped with his disciples openly. . . It is also in English called Shere- 
thursday ; for in old fathers' days the people would that day shser their heads 
and clip their beards, and poll their heads, and so make them honest against 
Easter-day." — Rock, ib., p. 235. 

p. 314, L 462-4, cut out . after hete ; put ; after sett, and , after let ; 1. 
468-9, /br sett, In syce, read sett In syce ; L 470, ? some omission after this 
line. 

p. 315, note ', for course read coarse 

p. 317,1. 543, side note, ybr residue r^tftf receipt; 1. 562,y^r dercr^i^/dere 

p. 322, 1. 677, side-note, steel spoon is more likely spoon handle 

p. 325, note last line but one,/&r teking read taking 

p. 328, 1. 14. TheT o/li the is used as a paragraph mark in the MS. 

p. 332, 1. 991, /or tuicoin read tuicion. 

PART IL 

D 19 1 75 } ®^^®'^^^®» ^^'* *^ ^^ Wasli fruit before eating it. 

p. 42, 1. 120. Piperata, The third thing is Pepper, a sance for vplandish 
folkes : for they mingle Pepper with Beanes and Peason. Likewise of 
toasted bread with Ale or Wine, and with Pepper, they make a blacke sauce, 
as if it were pap, that is called pepper, and that they cast vpon theyr meat, 
flesh and fish. Beg. San. Salerni^ p. 67. 

p. 62, col. 1, Areyse. Compare, "and the Greaunte pulled and drough, but 
he myght hym not a-race from the sadelL Merlin^ Pt. II| p. 346 (E. £. T. 
Soc. 1866), 



CORBIGENDA, NOTES, ETC. CXXXV 

p. 64, under Birth, /or 109 read 190 

p. 66, col. 2, under Broach, add 121/69 

p. 72, col. 1, Clof. Can it be " cloth " ? 

p. 75, col, 2, Croscrist. La Croix de par Dieu, The Christs-crosse-row ; 
or, the homebooke wherein a child leames it. Cot^rave. The alphabet was 
called the Chrisi-eross-rotc, some say because a cross was prefixed to the 
alphabet in the old primers ; but as probably from a superstitious custom of 
writing the alphabet in the form of a cross, by way of charm. This was even 
solemnly practised by the bishop in the consecration of a church. See 
Picart*s Reliffious Ceremonies, vol. i. p. 131. Narei, 

p. 76, cot. 1, under Curlasyey the Bohe of, for p. 227- read p. 297- 

p. 78, col. 2. Dogs. The nuisance that the number of Dogs must have 
"been may be judged of by the following payments in the Church- Wardens' 
Accounts of St Margaret's, Westminster, in NicholSy p. 34-5. 

1625 Item paid to the dog-killer for killing of dogs 0. 9. 8. 

1625 Item paid to the dog-killer more for killing 14 dozen and 10 dogs in 
time of visitacion 1. 9. 8. 

1625 Item paid to the dog-killer for killing of 24 dozen of dogs 1. 8. 
See the old French satire on the Lady and her Dogs, in ReL Ant. i. 155. 

p. 83, col. 2. Flaunes. ' Pro Caseo ad flauns qualibet die . panis j ' 
(allowance of). Register of Worcester Priorv, fol. 121 a, ed. Hale, 1865. 

p. 88, col. 1. Green sauce. There is a herb of an acid taste, the common 
name for which . . is green-sauce , . not a dozen miles from Stratford-on-Avon. 
Notes Sf ^eries, June 14, 1851, vol iii., p. 474. " of Persley leaues stamped 
withe veriuyce, or white wine, is made a greene sauce to eate with roasted 
meat . . Sauce for Mutton, Veale and Kid, is greene sauce, made in Summer 
with Vineffer or Veriuyce, with a few spices, and without Garlicke. Other- 
wise with Parsley, white Ginger, and tested bread with Vineger. In Winter, 
the same sawces are made with many spices, and little quantity of Garlicke, 
and of the best Wine, and with a little Verjuyce, or with Mustard." Reg* 
San. Saierniy p. 67-8. 

p. 90, col. 2, Helle, read P not from A,S. Aelle, clear, but hyldan, incline 
bend, & so, pour. 

p. 91, col. 1, Holyn. Bosworth gives A.S. holen, a rush ; Wright's Vocab., 
holiny Fr. hous ; and that Cotgrave glosses * The Hollie, Holme, or Huluer 
tree.' Ancren. Riwle, 418 note *, and Rel. Ant,, ii. 280 have it too. See 
Stratmann's Diet. 

p. 91, col. 1, under Heyron-8ewe,y^r /239 read /539 

p. 94, col. 1, Kommende 6/,/or 6/ read 4/ 

p. 97, col. 2, The extract for Lopster should have been under creuis or crab. 
Lorely : it may be lorel-fy, like a lord, a loose, worthless fellow, a rascal. 

p. 99, col. 2, Master, /or please your, 11/16, read don't strive with your, 
305/225. 

p. 100, col, 1, Meene,/or 12/9 read 12/15 ; col. 2, Mertinet,/(?r p. 21 read 
p. 211 

p. 101, col. 1, Morter,/or 283/62 read 283/32 (1. 4 from foot). 

p. 114, col. 2, Say, fruyter,/»r 289 read 287. 

p. 115, col. 2, Servonts, duties of,/or 202-5 read 20-25. 

p. 116, col. 2, Side,/>r 1. 248 rM/l32/248. 

p. 119, col. 2, Stand upright : for 201/ read 291/ 

p. 121, col. 2, Summeaelasse,/or 806 read 808 

p. 122, col. 2, Syles is strains. Sile, r., to strain, to purify milk through 
a straining dish ; Su.-Got. sila, colare. — Sile, *., a fine sieve or milk strainer; 
Su.-Got. sil, colum. Brockett. See quotations in Halliwell^s Gloss., and Strat- 
mann, who gives Swed. stla, colare. 



CXXXVl CORRIGENDA, NOTES, ETC. 

p. 124, col. 1, Ijeedom. Add Tbedam (or tkrjfte infra), Figeneia. Prompt. 
{vigeOy I flourish, bloom, thrive), col. 2, Tongue ; charm ii, for 361 read 341. 

On the general subject of diet in olden time consult " Kegimen Sanitatis 
Salemitanum, with an Introduction by Sir Alex. Croke, Oxford, 1830." 11. 
B. Wheatley. 



Nine fresh pieces relating more or less to the subjects of this volume 

having come under mj notice since the Index was printed and the volume 
supposed to be finished, 1 have taken the opportunity of the delay in its 
issue —caused by want of funds — to add the new pieces as a Postscript to 
Part I. A tenth piece, Caxton's Book ofCttrtesyey iu three versions, too iin- 

Sortant to be poked into a postscript, will form No. 3 of the Society's Extra 
ories, the first Text for 1808. 



PART I. 



(^arlg ^nglisl^ "^atmB anb ^xtuimB 



on 




wmm mi Petals 



lit 



#IH^« SFiw^, 



FROM MSS. IN THE BRITISH MUSEUM, &c., AND 
FROM EARLY PRINTED BOOKS. 



'**• 



OR A *LYTYL RBPORTE* OP HOW YOUNG PEOPLE 

SHOULD BEHAVE. 

[MS, Harl 6086, /o?. 86—90 ; ah, 1475 a.d.] 



IN this tretys the whiche I thenke to wryte 
Out of latyn in-to my comvne langage, 
He me supporte (sen I kan nat endyte), 
4 The whichfi only after hia owne ymage 

Fourmyd man-kynde ! For alle of tendre age 
In curtesye Eesseyve shuUe document, 
And vertues knowe, by this lytil coment. 

% And Facett seythe the Book of curtesye, 
9 Vertues to knowe, thaym forto haue and vse. 
Is thing moste heelfulle in this worlde trevly. 
Therfore in feythe I wole me nat excuse 
12 From this labour ywys, nor hit Eefuse ; 

For myn owne lemynge wole I say summe thing 
That touchis vertues and curtesye havyng. 

% But, yonge Babees, whome bloode Royally 
16 Withe grace, Feture, and hyhe habylite 
Hathe enot^rmyd, on yow ys that I calle 
To knowe this Book ; for it were grete pyte, 
Syn that in yow ys sette sovereyne beaute, 
20 But yf vertue and nurture were withe alle ; 
To yow therfore I speke in specyalle, 

% And nouhte to hem of elde that bene experte 

In govemaunce, nurture, and honeste. 

1 



Hy Qod, support 
me while I trans- 
late this treatise 
flrom Latin. 



It shall teach 
thoee of tender 
age. 



To know and 
practise virtnes 
is the most pro- 
fitable thing in 
the world. 



Yoong BaUea, 
adorned with 
grace, 

I call on 70a to 
know this book 
(for Nurture 
should accompany 
beauty). 



andfnoton aged 
men expert 
therein. 



THE BABEE8 BOOK. 



Why add pain to 

beU, 

water to the sea, 

or baat toflre? 

[Fol. 86 b.] 

Babies, m J book 
Is for you only, 

and ao I hope no 
one will find fkult 
with it, but only 
amend it. 



The only reward 
t seek is that my 
book may please 
all and improve 
yon. 



Ifyoa don't know 
any word in it, 
ask till yoa do^ 

and then keep 
hold of It. 



And do not won- 
der at this being 
in metre. 



I must first 
describe how yoa 
Babies who dwell 
in households 
should behave at 
meals, 



and be ready with 
lovely and 
benign words 
when you are 
spoken to. 



Lady Faoetia, 
help me ! 



24 For what nedys to yeve helle peynes smerte, 
loye vnto hevene, or water vnto the see, 
Heete to the Fyre that kan nat but hoote be ? 
It nedys nouhte : therfore, Babees yynge, 

28 My Book only is made for youre lemynge. 

If Therfore I pray that no man Reprehende 
This lytyl Book, the whiche for yow I make ; 
But where defaute ys^ latte ylke man amende, 
32 And nouhte deme yt ; p] pray thaym for youre 
sake. 
For other mede ywys I kepe noone take 
But that god wolde this Book mjhie yche man 

plese, 
And in lemynge vnto yow donne somme ese. 

^ Eke, swete children, yf there be eny worde 
37 That yee kenne nouhte, spyrre whils yee yt ken ; 
Whanne yee yt knowe, yee mowe holde yt in 

horde. 
Thus thurhe spyrryng yee mowe leme at wyse 
men. 
40 Also thenke nouhta to straungely at my penne. 
In this metre for yow lyste to procede, 
Men vsen yt ; therfore on hit take hede. 

^ But amonge alle that I thenke of to telle, 
44 My purpos ys first only forto trete 

How yee Babees in housholde that done duelle 
Sh\dde haue youre sylf whe»ne yee be sette at 

mete, 
And how yee shulde whewne men lyste yow Re- 
hete, 
48 Haue wordes lovly, swete, bleste, and benyngne. 
In this helpe me Marie, Modir dyngne ! 

% And eke, lady myn, Facecia ! 

My per/ne thow guyde, and helpe vnto me shewe; 



THE BABEES BOOK. 

52 For as the firste off alle lettres ys the A, _ CPoI. s?.] 

•^ Thou art the 

So Artow firste Modir of alle vertue. Mother of «u 

virtue. 

Off myn vnkunnynge, swete lady, now Rewe ; 

And thouhe vntauhte I speke of govemaunce, Help the ignor- 
ance of me 
56 Withe thy swete helpe supporte myn ygnor- antaughti 

a,wice. 



A 



Bele Babees, herkne now to my lore ! Fair Babies, 

when yon enter 

> Whenne yee entre into yowr lordis place, your lord's piaoe. 



Say first, " god spede ; " And alle that ben by- 
fore 



tmj "God speed,' 



tf 



60 Yow in this stede, salue withe humble Face : "* •^^^ •" 

' ' there. 

Stert nat Eudely ; komme Inne an esy pace ; 

Holde vp youre heede, and knele but on oone Kneel on one 

. knee to your lord. 

kne 
To youre sovereyne or lorde, whedir he be. 



If And y f they speke withe yow at youre komynge, if any speak to 

yon, look straight 

65 Withe stable Eye loke vpone theym Eihte, at them,and listen 

To theyre tales and yeve yee goode herynge finished; do not* 



Whils they haue seyde; loke eke withe alle 
your myhte 
68 Tee Tangle nouhte, also caste nouhte your 
syhte 
Aboute the hovs, but take to theym entent 
Withe blythe vysage, and spiryt diligent. 



chatter or let 



your eyes wander 
abcyt the house. 



^ Whenne yee Answere or speke, yee shulle be Answer 

J, sensibly, 

purveyde 

72 What yee shalle say / speke eke thing fructuous ; 

On esy wyse latte thy Eesone be sayde SSjf.^'*"** 

In wordes gentylle and also compendious, [poi. sr 6.] 

For many wordes ben rihte Tedious Many words are 

76 To ylke wyseman that shalle yeve audience ; 
Thaym to eschewe therfore doo diligence. 



THE BABEBS BOOK. 



Stand tilt 70a are 
toldtodfc: keep 

yoarbatd, 
handi, and ftet 
quiet: 

don't scratch 
yoonetf, 



or lean against a 
poet. 



ortaaadle aiqr- 
thing: 



Bow to your lord 
when 70a answer. 



If anyone better 
than yourself 
comes in, retire 
and give place to 
him. 

Tarn yoor bade 
on no man. 



^ Take eke noo seete, but to stonde be yee preste ; 
While forte eytte ye haue in komaundement, 
80 Youre heede, youre hande^ your feet, holde yee 
in reste; 
Nor thurhe clowyng your flesshe loke yee nat 

Rent ; 
Lene to no poste whils that ye stande present 
Byfore jour lorde, nor handylld ye no thyng 
84 Alfi for that tyme ynto the hovs touching. 

% At euery tyme obeye vnto youre lorde 

Whenne yee answere, ellis stonde yee styl as 

stone 
But yf he speke ; loke withe oon accorde 
88 That yf yee se komme Inne eny persone 
Better thanne yee, that yee goo bak anoone 
And gyff him place ; youre bak eke in no way 
Tume on no wiht«, as ferforth^ as ye may. 



Be silent while 
your lord drinks, 
not hmghlng, 
whispering, or 
Joking. 



Ifhe tells yon to 
sit down, do so at 
once. 



^ Yiff that youre lorde also yee se drynkynge, 
93 Looke that ye be in rihte stable sylence 
Withe-oute lowde lauhtere or langelynge, 
Rovnynge, lapynge, or other Insolenca 
96 Yiff he komaunde also in his presence 
Yow forto sytte, fulfille his wylle belyve, 
And for youre seete, looke nat withe other stryve. 



Then don't talk 
dirt, or scorn any 

[F0L88.] 
one, but be meek 
and cheerful. 



If year better 
praises yon, 

rise ap and thank 
him heartily. 



% Whenne yee er sette, take noone vnhoneste tale ; 

1 00 Eke forto skome eschewe withe alle y owr myhte ; 

Latte ay youre chere be lowly, blythe, and 

hale, 
Withe-oute chidynge as that yee wolde fyhte. 
Yiff yee perceyve also that eny wihte 
104 Lyst yow kommende that better be thanne yee, 
Hyse vp anoone, and thanke him withe herte 
free. 



THE BABEES BOOK. 



% Yif tliat yee se youre loide or youre lady 
Touching the housholde speke of eny thinge, 

108 Latt theym alloone, for that is curtesy, 

And entremete yow nouhte of theyre doynge, 
But be Ay Redy withe-oute feynynge 
At hable tyme to done yoi^r lorde service, 

112 So shalle yee gete anoone a name of price. 



When your lord 
or lady Is speak- 
ing about (h0 
hoosebold. 



don't yofi Inter- 
fere 

but be always 
ready to serve at 
the proper time, 



^ Also to hrynge drynke, holde lihte whanne tyme. to bring drink, 

hold lights, or 

y8> 



Or to doo that whiche ouhte forto be done, 
Looke yee be preste, for so yee shalle y wys 
116 In nurture gete a gentyl name ful sone ; 
And yif ye shulde at god aske yow a bone^ 
Als to the worlde better in noo degre 
Mihte yee desire thaT^ne nurti'ed forto be. 

H Yif that youre lorde his owne coppe lyste com- 
mende 
121 To yow to drynke, ryse vp whanne yee it take, 
And resseyve it goodly withe boothe youre 

hende ; 
Of yt also to n5one other profre ye make, 
124 But ynto him that brouhte yt yee hit take 

Whenne yee haue done, for yt in no kyn wyse 
Auhte comvne be, as techis vs the wyse. 

% Now must I telle in shorte, for I muste so, 
128 Youre observaunce that ye shalle done at none ; 
Whenne that ye se youre lorde to mete shall^ 

goo. 
Be redy to fecche him water sone ; 
Summe helle ^ water ; su77eme holde to he hathe 
done 
132 The clothe to him, And from him yee nat pace 
Whils he be sette, and haue herde sayde the 
grace. 



anything else, 



and so get a good 



The beet prayer 
you can make to 
God is to be weU 
mannered. 



If your lord oflRors 
you his cup, 

rise up, take it 
with both hands, 



oflbr it to no one 
else, but give it 
bade to him that 
brought it. 
[Fol. 88 6.j 



At Noon, when 
your lord Is ready 
for dinner, 
[lAelde, pour out} 
A.8. hyUUm, to 
indine, bend.] 
some pour out 
water, some hold 
the towel for him 
tUlhehas 
finished, and 
don't leave till 
grace is said. 



THE BABEES BOOK. 



Stand l^jroor 
lord tm he tolls 
yoofeotit, 



Ihen kaqt your 
knlA clean and 
■harp 



to eat your food. 

Be ailent, and toll 
no naaty storiee. 



^ Byfore him stonde while he komaunde yow sy tte, 
Withe clone handes Ay Redy him to serve ; 
136 Wheitne yee be sette, your knyf withe alle yowr 
wytt« 
Vnto youre sylf bothe clene and sharpe con- 
serve, 
That honestly yee mowe yowr owne mete kerve. 
Latte curtesye and sylence withe yow duelle, 
140 And foule tales looke noone to other telle. 



Cat yoar bread, 
don't break It. 



Lay a clean 
trencher before 
yoa« and eat your 
broth wUha 
spoon, 

don't sap it ap. 

Bon't leave your 
spoon in yoor 
dish. 

Don't lean on the 
table, or dirty the 
cloth. 



% Kutte withe yot*r knyf your brede, and breke 
yt nouhte ; 
A clene Trenchour byfore yow eke ye lay, 
And whewne jour potage to yow shalle be 
brouhte, 
144 Take yow sponys, and soupe by no way, 

And in youre dysshe leve nat yowr spone, I 

Nor on the borde lenynge be yee nat sene, 
But from embrowyng the clothe yee kepe clene. 



Don't hang your 
head over yoor 
dish, or eat with 
a foil mouth, or 

pick your nose, 
teeth, and nails, 



[Fol. ».] 



or staff your 
mouth BO that 
yoo can't speak. 



^ Oute ouere youre dysshe yo«*r heede yee nat 
hynge, 
149 And withe fulle mouthe diynke in no wyse ; 
Youre nose, jour teethe, yowr naylles, from 

pykynge, 
Kepe At your mete, for so techis the wyse. 
152 Eke or ye take in youre mouthe, yow avyse. 
So mekyl mete but that yee rihte welle mowe 
Answere, And speke, whenne men speke to yow. 



Wipe yoor mouth 
when you drink, 

and don't dirty 
th6 cap with yoor 
hands. I 



^ Whawne ye shalle drynke, jour mouthe clence 
withe A clothe ; 
156 Toure handes eke that they in no manere 

Imbrowe the cuppe, for thanne shulle noone be 
lothe 



THE BABEES BOOK. 7 

Withe yew to drynke that ben withe yow yfere. 

The salte also touche nat in his salere ^"IWTi. 

meat in the uit« 

160 Withe nokyns mete, but lay it honestly «"»'» 

On youre Trenchoure, for that is curtesy. 

% Youre knyf withe mete to yowr mouthe nat here, ?' ^"^^JJ^' ^J*'* 
And in youre hande nor holde yee yt no way, 
164 Eke yf to yow be brouhte goode metys sere, T«ate every dish 

•^ -^ © J > that's bronght to 

Luke curteysly of ylke mete yee assay, you, and when 

once your plate Is 

And yf jour dysshe withe mete be tane away taken away, don't 
And better brouhte, curtesye wole certeyne 
168. Yee late yt passe and calle it nat ageyne. 



^ And yf straungers withe yow be sette at mete, if strangers dine 

with yon, skare 

And ynto yow goode mete be brouhte or sente, aii good food sent 

«*• 11 1 -Tki to you with then* 

Withe parte of hit goodely yee theym Kehete, 

1 72 For yt ys nouhte ywys convenyent, J*'» ^^^ *** 

Withe yow at mete whanne other ben present, yo«"eif. 
Alle forto holde that vnto yow ys brouhte, 
And as wrecches on other vouchesauf nouhte. 



% Kutte nouhte youre mete eke as it were Felde CFd. » &•] 

Don't oat your 
men, meat Uke field 

177 That to theyre mete haue suche an appetyte have end! an ^ 

That they ne rekke in what wyse, where ne SS?t*«re*Sw 

when, **»«y ^^^ **»«*' 

food. 

Nor how vngoodly they on theyre mete twyte ; 
180 But, swete children, haue al-wey yowr delyte Sj**ou?*lwi*ht 
In curtesye, and in verrey gentylnesse, ^ courtesy, and 

e8<^ew rudeness. 

And at youre myhte eschewe boystousnessa 



T VThanne chese ys brouhte, A Trenchoure ha ye Have a clean 

" ^ » J trencher and 

clene knifo for 

184 On whiche withe clene knyf [ye] yo^r chese 
mowe kerve ; 
In youre fedynge luke goodly yee be sene, *"* *^ vnyperXy, 



8' 



THE BABEBS BOOK. 



Don't chatter 
either, and yoo 
•hall get a good 
repute for 
gentlenees. 



188 



And from langelyng your tunge al-wey conserve, 
For so ywys yee shalle a name deserve 
Oflf gentylnesse and of goode govemaunce, 
And in vertue al-wey youre silf avaunce. 



When the meal is 
oyer. 



clean your knives, 
and pat them In 
their places: keep 
your nats till 
you've washed; 



then rise up with- 
out laughing or 
Joking, and go 
to your lord's 
table. 



% Whanne that so ys tliat ende shall^ kome of 
mete, 
Youre knyffes clene, where they ouht6 to he, 
192 Luke yee putte Tppe ; and holde eke yee your 
seete 
Whils yee haue wasshe, for so wole honeste. 
WhoT^ne yee haue done, looke thanne goodly 

that yee 
Withe-oute lauhtere, lapynge, or boystous worde, 
196 Eyse vpjw, and goo vnto youre lordis horde, 



stand there 



till grace is said. 

Then some of 
you go for water, 
some hold the 
towel, some 
pour water over 
his hands. 

[Pol. 90.] 
Other things I 
shall not put in 
tills little BepoTt, 



% And stonde yee there, and passe yee him nat 
fro 
Whils grace ys sayde and brouhte vnto an ende, 
Thanne somme of yow for water owe to goo, 
200 So77ime holde the clothe, somme poure vpon 
his hende. 
Other service thanne this I myhte comende 
To yow to done, but, for the tyme is shorte, 
I putte theym nouhte in this lytyl Eeporte, 



but skip over, 
praying that no 
one will abuse 
me for this work. 
Let readers add or 
take away : 
I addren it to 
every one who 
likes to correct It. 



^ But onere I passe, prayyng withe spyrit gladde 
205 Of this labour that no wiht^ me detray, 

But where to lytyl ys, latte him more adde, 
And whe/ine to myche ys, latte him take away ; 
208 For thouhe I wolde, tyme wole that I no more say ; 
I leve therfore, And this Book I directe 
To euery wiht€ that lyste yt to correcte. 



Sweet children, 
I beseech you 



% And, swete children, for whos love now I write, 
212 I yow beseche withe verrey lovande herte, 



THE B.VBEES BOOK. \ 

To knowe this book that yee sette jour delyte ; know this book, 

And may God 

And Tayhtdvlle god, that sufiEred peynes smerte, mak« yon w 

T . t 1 . expert therein 

In curtesye he make yow so experte, 
216 That thurhd yowr nurture and youre govemawice that you may 

attain endleea 

In lastynge blysse yee mowe jour self auaunce ! bUaa. 



t f triw ax ht fttoh. 



To Amerous, to Auntorous, ne Angre the nat to [FoL m b.2 

. Don't be too 

mucne ^ loving or angry. 

To Bolde, ne to Besy, ne Bourde nat to large ; ooorteoMOTcniei 
To Curteys, to Cruelle, ne Care nat to sore ; S^^ft^* 
4 To Dulle, ne to Dredefulle, ne Drynke nat to ^'^^ 
ofile; 
To Elenge, to Excellent, ne to Careful le ney- w be too lofty or 

anzlooa, 

thuT ; 
To Fers, ne to Famuler, but Frendely of Chere; bat Wendiyof 
To gladde, ne to Glorious, and Gelousy thow Haujeaiouey, 

hate ; 
8 To Hasty, to Hardy, ne to Hevy in thyn ^3^^.*'"*^ 

Herte; 
To lettyng, ne to langelyng, and lape nat to Joke not too oft; 

ofte ; 
To Kynde, ne to Kepyng, and warre Knavis tricka. 

tacches; 
To Lothc, ne to Lovyng, ne to Lyberalle of JJSiX'^too 

goode l liberal, 

12 To Medlous, to Mury, but as goode Maner *«> ">«<w>in«» 
askithe ; 
To noyous, ne to Nyce, ne to Newfangj'Ue ; too parucniar, 

neW'fluigled, 

To Orped, to Overtwert^ and Othes, sir, thow or too daring. 

Hateoatha 

hate j 



10 



LERNE OR BE LEWDE. 



aail flattery. 



Plaue well Uiy 
master. 

Don't be too 
rackety. 



or go oat too 
miioh. 



Don't be 



too revengefol 



or wrathftil, 

and wade not too 

deep. 

The middle path 

is the best for us 

all. 



To Preyeyng, to Preve withe Prynces and 

Dukes ; 
16 To Quej^nt, to Querelous, tod Queme welle 

thy maistre ; 
To Riotous^ to Eevelyug, ne Eage nat to 

muche ; 
To Straunge, ne to Steryng, ne Stare nat 

abroode ; 
To Toyllous, to Talevys, for Temp«raunce it 

hatithe ; 
20 To Yengable, to Envious, and waste nat to 

muche ; 
To Wylde, to Wrathefulle, and Wade nat to 

depe ; 
A Mesurahle Mene way ys beste for vs alle ; 

IT Yitte. Lerne. or. Be. Lewde. 



[A Dietary given ^raio Kpg Herry Tto' «by Sigismooode, 
Emp^roTir of Rome,* follows, leaf 91. The colophon (leaf 98, back) 
is ' V Thus enditbtf this Dyetarye Compyled And made by Plato 
and Petms Lucratus, Grcte Philosophers and Astronomers.'] 



A complete copy of the A B C Alliterative Tioem of tchieh the 
foregoing lbbne ob bk lewde m a fragment^ oeeure in the Lambeth 
MS. 853, and ie therefore added here. 



11 



[Lambeth MS. 853, ah 1430 a.d., page 30, ioritten 

withotit breaks,^ 

Wlio-80 wilnej to be wijs, <fe worschip desiri]), 
Leme he oo lettir, & looke on anothir 
Of ])e .a. b. c. of aristotil : argue not a3en ])at : 
4 It is councel for rijt manye clerkis & kny^tia a 

])oiisand, 
And eek it my^te ameende a man ful ofte 
For to leeme lore of oo lettir, & his l\jf saue ; 
For to myche of ony Jing was neuere holsuuL 
8 Beede ofte on ])is roUe, &, rewle ])ou ])er aftir ; 
Wbo-80 be greued in his goost, goueme him 

bettir ; 
Blame he not ])e bam ])at ))is .a. b. c. made, 
But wite he his wickid will & his werk aftir ; 
12 It schal neuare greue a good man ])0U3 ])e gilti 

be meendid. 
Now herkene]) & heeri]) how y bigynne. 

£L to amerose, to aunterose, ne argue not to myche. 

JB to bolde, ne to bisi, ne boorde not to large. 

V to curteis, to cruel, ne care not to sore. 

MM to dul, ne to dreedful, ne drinke not to ofte. 

£ to elenge, ne to excellent, ne to eemesful neij^e?*. 

J: to fers, ne to famuler, but freendli of cheere. 

|j to glad, ne to gloriose, & gelosie ])0U hate. 



[PftgvSl.] 



12 THE A B C OF ARISTOTLE. 

A to hasti, ne to hardi, ne to heuy in fine herte. 
X to. iettynge, ne to iangelinge, ne iape not to ofte. 
& to kinde, ne to kepynge, & be waar of knaue tacchis. 
Id to looth for to leene, ne to liberal of goodis. 
JIL to medelus, ne to myrie, but as mesure wole it meeue. 
JN to noiose, ne to nyce, ne use no new iettis. 
U to orped, ne to onerpweiTt, & oo]pia ])ou hate. 
Jl to prasing, ne to preuy with pnncis ne with dukis ; 
lot to queynte, ne ' to quorelose, but queeme weel ^oure souereyns. 
JK to riotus, to reueling, ne rage not to rudelL 
S to straunge, ne to stirynge, ne straungeli to stare. 
X to toilose, ne to talewijs, for temperaunce is beest. 
V to venemose, ne to veniable, & voide al vilonye. 
W to wielde, ne to wraf ful, neiper waaste, ne waade not to depe, 
^ For a mesurable meene is enere fe beste of alle. 



[1 Page 82.] 



[«« WM is l^iB world biloued" follows.] 



See two other eopin ofthitABCin Earl MS. 541, fol. 213 and 228. 

The copy on fol. 213 has the exordium as prose, thus : Who so wylb be wyse* 
and woTspypjptf to ¥rynne, leern he on lettor, and loke vpon an other of the .A. B. C. 
of Arystotle ; noon Argument agaynst that, ffor it is oounselld for clerku and 
knyghtM a thowsand^. And also it myght^ amende a meane man, fulle oft the 
lemyng of A lettur, and his lyf save. It shal not greve a good man though gylt be 
amende, rede on this ragment / and rule the theraftdr. The copy on foL 228 has 
no Introduction. 



13 



Wanitatb. 



[MS. Cott. Calig. A, ii., ab. 1460 a.d.,/oZ. 88, col 2.] 



Who-80 wjUe of nurtur lere, 

Herken to me & ^e shaU^ here. 

When povL comeste be-fore a lorde 
4 In halle, yn bowre, or at fe borde, 

Hoode or kappe pou of ])0. 

Ere J>ou come bym alle vn-to, 

Twyse or Jjryse with-ouien dowte 
8 To pat lorde p<m moste lowte, 

With pj Rjjth kne lette hit be do, 

Thy worsbyp pon mayst saue so. 

Holde of pj cappe & pj bood also 
12 TyUe pon be byden hit on to do ; 

ARe pe wbyle povL spekest vrith bym, 

Fayr & louely bolde rp f y chynw, 

So aftur pe nnrtur of ^e book 
16 In hts face louely pon loke ; 

Foot & bond pan kepe full^ stylle 

Fro clawyng or tryppyng, bit ys skylle ; 

Fro spettyng & snetyng kepe ^e also ; 
20 Be pnuy of voydance, & lette btt go. 

And loke pan be wyse & felle, 

And perto also pat ^ow goneme pe weUe. 

In-to ^e balle when pou dost wende 
24 Amonge pe genteles gode & bende, 

Prece pou. not vp to byj for no pjng, 

Nor for pj byj blood, nere for pj konnyng, 

'Nopur to sytte, nepur to lene, 
28 For hit ys neyjmr good ne clene. 



When ymi eome 
before a lord 



take off your cap 
or hood. 



and fUl on your 
right knee twice 
or thrice. 



Keep yoar cap off 
till yoa're told to 
pat it on ; 



hold ap your 
chin; 



look in the lord's 

fiM»; 

keep hand and 

foot still} 

don't spit or snot; 

break wind 
quietly; 



behave weU. 

When you go into 
the hall. 



don't press np too 
high. 



1 



14 



VRBANITATIS. 



Don't be ■hame- 
fkoed. 



Wherarer yoa 
go, good maimera 
nuike th« num. 



Btfveraooe your 
betten, 
bat treat ell 
equally whom 
yoa don't know. 

[FoL86,back, 
ooLl.J 

See that your 
hands are dean, 
and your knife 
■hanx 



liet worthier men 
help themeelvee 
before you eat. 



Don't dutch at 
the beet bU. 



Keep your hands 
from dirtying the 
doth, and don't 
wipe your nose on 
it. 



or dip too deep in 
your atp. 



Have no meat in 
your mouth when 
you drink or 
speak; and stop 
Ulklng when your 
neighbour is 
drinking. 



Lette not ]7y contynaunce also abate, 

For good niirt?/r wylle saue fy state ; 

Fadyr & modyr, what euwr J)ey be, 
32 Welle ys J>o chylde J)at may the : 

In halle, in chambur, ore where ]70u gon, 

Nurtur & good maners make]> man. 

To J)e nexte degre loke J)ou wysely 
36 To do hem Reuerence by and by : 

' Do hem no Eeuerens, but sette alle in Rowe 

But jyf J)Ou fe bettwr do hym knowe. 

To ]7e mete when ]>ou art sette, 
40 Fayre & honestly thow ete hyt : 

Fyrste loke ]7at ]7y handes be clene, 

And ]7at ]7y knyf be sharpe & kene ; 

And cutte ]7y breed & alle ]7y mete 
44 Eyjth euen as ]70u doste hzt ete. 

If foil sytte be a worthyor man 

Then fy self thow art on, 

Suffre hym fyrste to towche fe mete 
48 Ere fy self any Jer-of gete ; 

To J)e beste morselle fou may not stryke 

Thow3 fou neuwr so welle htt lyke. 

Also kepe fy hondys fayre & welle 
62 Fro fylynge of the towelle, 

Ther-on J)ou shalt not J)y nose wype ; 

NoJ)w?' at J)y mete J)y toth Jwu pyke ; 

To depe in J)y cuppe J>ou may not synke 
56 Thowj foil haue good wylle to drynke, 

Leste J)y eyen water Jjere by, 

Then ys hyt no curtesy. 

Loke yn fy mowth be no mete 
60 When J)ou begynneate to drynke or speke ; 

Also when ]>ou sest any man drynkyng 

That taketh hede of fy karpyng, 

Soone a-non ]70U sece ]yy tale, 
64 WheJ)M7* he dr\'nke wyne or Ale. 



VRBAXITATia 



15 



Loke also pou skome no mon 
In what )>e[gre] * pon so hym gon ; 
Nor poxi shalte no mon Eepreue ' 
68 }yf pon wylt pj owen worshyp saue, 
For snche wordys pon myjth out kaste 
Sholde make pe to lyne in euella reste ; 
Close fyn honde yn Jjy feste, 
72 And kepe pe welle from hadde-y-wyste. 
In chambt^r among ladyes bry^th, 
Kepe ^y tonge & spende pj syjth ; 
Law^e poM not vrith no grette cry, 
76 Ne Eage pou not wit^. Kybawdry. 
Pley povL not but with pj peres ; 
Ne telle pou not pat pou heres, 
Nor dyskeuere pou not ' fyn owen dede 
80 For no myrth nor for no mede ; 

With fayr speche pou may haue pj wylle, 
And vritJi pj speche pou may ^e spylle. 
3yf ^ou suwe a wordyer mon 
84 Then fy self pou art on, 

Lette fy Ry^th oholdur folow hts bakke, 
For nurtttr pat ys, wit^-owten lakke. 
When he doth speke, holde pe style ; 
88 When he hath don, say pj yryHe ; 
Loke yn pj speche pou be felle, 
And what J)ou sayste a-vyse pe wellc ; 
And be-refe pou no mon his tale, 
92 Nojmr at wyne nere at Ale. 
Now, criate of his grette grace 
Jeue vs alle bothe wytte & space 
Welle J)is to knowe & Kede, 
96 And heuen to haue for our mede ! 
Amen, Amen, so moot h/t be, 
So saye we alle for chaiyte ! 



Soornand 

[1 lUrg. hM art 
for insertion.] 

reprove no man. 

prepraiMis 
written above 
the line.] 



Keep your fingers 
from what would 
bring yon to griet 

[Fol. 86, back, 
ool. 2.] 

Among ladies, 
look, don't talk. 
Don't laugh loud« 
or riot with 
ribalds. 



Don't repeat what 
you hear. 

[s mot put in 1^ a 
later hand.] 

Words make or 
mar .ou. 



If yon follow a 
worthier man, 
let your right 
shoulder follow 
his back, and 



don't speak till 
he has done. 

Be austere (?) in 
speech; 



don't stop any 
man's tale. 



Christ gives us all 
wit to know this. 



and heaven as oar 
reward. Amen! 



Explicit Tji^ctus Vrbanitatis. 



16 



ox €iijallp k 



[//arZ. MS. 641, /oZ. 210 ; a«rf Egerfon MS. 1995 ; 

a6. 1480 A.D.] 



Clerlu say that 

eoart«qr eame 
from hMven irhsn 
Gabriel greeted 
oar Lady. 
All virtaes are 
included In it. 



See that joar 
hands and nails 
are dean. 

Don*teattiU 
grace is said, 

or sit down till 
yoa're told. 

First, think on 
the poor; the 
foU belly wots 
not what the 
hungry feels. 



Don't eat too 
quickly. 



Lytylle childrene, here ye may lere 
Moche curtesy fat is wrytyne here ; 
For clerk?^ that the vij arte3 cunne, 
4 Seyn ' fat curtesy from hevyn come 
Whan Gabryelle oure lady grette, 
And Elizabeth with mary mette. 
Alle vertues ame * closid^ yn curtesye, 
8 And allfi vices yn vylonye. 

Loke ))yne hondts be ' wasshe clene, 
That no fylthe on * thy nayles be sene. 
Take fan no mete tylle grace * be seyd^, 

12 And tylle J)ou see alle thyng arayedc. 
Loke, my son, fat thow not sytte 
Tylle fe ruler of fe hous the bydde ; ® 
And at thy ^ mete, yn fe begynnyng, 

16 Loke on^ pore men that thow thynk. 

For the fulle wombe wit/iout p any faylys] 
Wot fulle lytyl [® what the hungery aylys.] 
Ete P not thy mete to hastely, 

20 A-byde and ete esely. 

1 Egerton MS. 1995, Synne > ben closyde 

' that thy hondjrs benne ^ in ^ the fyrste gracys 

6 the halle the bytte ^ Atte the ' a-pon (and omits tha() 
' The parts between square brackets [ ] are from the Egerton MS. 



17 



Cfee |;0un0 CJHte's J^ooL 



[From the Ashmolean MS. 61 (Bodleian Library), 

ah. 1500 A.D., foL 20.] 



Who so euer wylle thryue or the, 

MuBte v^rtiis leme, & ct^rtas be ; 

Fore who in jowthe no vertus vsythe, 
4 Yn Age All men hy w refusythe. 

Clerkys ^at canne ]7e scyens seuene, 

Seys ])at ci^^'tasy came fro heuen 

When gabryell owre lady grotte, 
8 And ely3abeth wttA here mette. 

All vcrtus be closyde in cwrtasy, 

And Alle vyces in vUony. 

Aryse be tyme oute of thi bedde, 
12 And blysse \\ biest <& thi forhede, 

Than wasche thi bonder & thi face, 

Kerne ])i hede, & Aske god grace 

The to helpe in All ^i werkes ; 
16 Thow schall spede better what so ]>ou carpes. 

Than go to ]7e chyrche, & here A messe, 

There aske mersy fore ^i trespasse. 

To whom J)ou metys come by ^e weye, 
20 Curtasly * gode mome ' J)ou sey. 

When ^ou hast done, go breke thy faste 

Wi\h mete & drynke of gode repaste : 

Blysse \i mouthe or ]7oa it ete, 
24 The better schalle be fi dyete. 



Whoever will 
thrive, most be 
ooarteoas, luid be- 
gin in hie yoath. 



Conrtesy oeme 
ftxun heaven, 



end contains alt 

▼irtuee, aa rude- 

neasdoeaall 

vices. 

Get up betimes ; 

croes yonrself; 

wash yoor hands 
andfiuse; comb 
your hair; say 
your prayers; 



go to ehareh and 
hearMasa. 



Say * Good Mom- 
Ing ' to every one 
you meet. 

Then have 
breakfast, 

first crossing 
your month. 



18 



THE LYTYLLE CHILDRENES LYTIL BOKE. fllARL.Ml.) 



Touch nothing 
till you are fUlly 
helped. 

Don't break yoar 
bread in two^ 



or pnt your pieces 
in yoar poclcet, 

your flngerv in 
the dtah. 



or your meat in 
the salt-ceilar. 



[Fol. 210, back.] 



I>on't pick yoar 
ears or noae, 

or drink with 
your mouth fUll, 



or cram it full. 

Don't pick yoar 
teeth with your 
knifb. 

Take yoar upoon 
out when you've 
finlslied aoap. 

Don't spit over 
or on the table, 
that's not proper. 

Don't put your 

ellwwa on the 

Uble, 

or belch as if yoa 

had a bean in 

your throat. 

Be careful of good 
food; 



Tylle pon haue thy fulle seniyse, 

Touche noo messe in noo wyse. 

Kerue not thy brede to thynne, 
24 Ne breke hit not on twynne : 

The mosselle that pan begynnysse to touche, 

Cast them not in thy pouche. 

Put not thy fyngerys on thy dysche, 
28 Nothyr in flesche, noth}T in fysche. 

Put not thy mete in-to the salte, 

In-to thy Seler that thy salte halte,] 

But ley it fayre ' on fi trencherc 
32 The byfore," and fat is fyne honore. 

Pyke not fyne Eris ne thy nostrell/V ; 

If* fon do, men woUe sey \>o\i come of chcrliA* 

And * whylle fi mete yn J)i mouth is, 
36 Diynk J)ow not ; for-gete not this. 

Ete ])i mete by smalle mosselles ; 

Fylle not thy mouth as done * biothellt^. 

Pyke not f i teth« with thy knyfe ; 
40 In no company begynne Jk)w stryfe.^ 

And whan \>oii hast J}i potage doon^,* 

Out of thy dyssh J)ow put thi spone. 

Ne spitte J)ow not ^ over the *® tabyUc, 
44 Ne therupon, for that is no ]>ing abylle.*^ 

Ley not fyne Elbowe nor *^ thy fyst 

Vpon the tabyllc whyh> pat thow etist.** 

Bulk not as a Beene were yn fi throte, 
48 [As a ka]rle fat comys oute of a cote. 

[** And thy mete be o]f grete pi-yce, 

[Be ware of hyt^ or J)ou arte n]ot wyse. 

[Speke noo worde stylle ne sterke ; 

1 Egerton MS. omita fayre * To-fore the * And 

* comyste of karlys ^ Bat < dothe 

7 Whyle )>ou ottyfile by thy lyffe * Idone 
10 thy " Nor a-pon hyt, for hyt ys not able 

** whyle ^u este 
^* The parts between square brackets [ ] are fVt)m the P2gerton MS 



Spette not 
" nothyr 



THE YOUNG CHILDREN S BOOK. {A8HM.91.) 



19 



Be-fore fi mete sey pon J>i grace, 
Yt ocupys bot lytell space ; — 
Fore oure mete, & drynke, & vs, 

28 Thanke we owre lord Ihesua ; — 
A pater noster <& Aue maiy 
Sey fore J>e saulys fat in peyne ly ; 
Than go labpt^r as fou arte bownde, 

82 And be not Idylle in no stounde : 
Holy scryptowr fm it seyth 
To pe pat Arte of cristen feyth, 
" Yife pon labot^r, pan muste ete 

36 That wM ])i bonder po\x doyste gete ; '' 
A byrde hath wengea forto fle, 
So man hath Armes laboryd to be. 
Lake pou be trew in worde <& dede, 

40 Yn Alle ))i werkes p&n schall pou spede : 
Treuth wyt neue?* his master schame, 
Yt kepys hym out o£fe syrane & blame. 
The weys to heuen f ei bene pus tweyne, 

44 Mercy & treuthe, As clerked seyne ; 
Who so wyll come to pQ lyfe of blysse, 
To go pe weys he may not mysse. 
Make no promys bot it be gode, 

48 And kepe pou. it with myght & mode ; 
Fore euery promys, it is dette, 
That with no faked muste be lette. 
God & J>i neybores lufe all wey ; 

52 Welle is pe, than may pon sey, 
Fore BO pou kepys All pe lawe 
WM-oute Any fere, drede, or awe. 
Vn-callyd go pou to no counselle ; 

56 That longer to pe, with pat thow melle. 

Scome not pe pore, ne hurte no mane ; 

Leme of hym pat the teche cane ; 

Be no glosere nor no mokere, 

60 'Ne no seruantee no wey lokere. 

2 • 



Say giace, 



thank JesoB for 
yoor food, 

aiid say an Ave 
for th« souls In 
pain. 

Then set to work, 
and don't be idle. 

Scripture tells 
you, 



Ifyou work, you 
most eat what 
you get with your 
hands. 



Be true in word 
and deed; 



truth keeps a man 
from blame. 
Mervy and Tmth 
are the twM'ways 
to heaven. 



Ml not to fp> by 
them. 



Make only proper 
tnomisos, and 
keep them 



without (Usehood. 

Love God and 
your ne^hbourt. 



and 80 fUlAl all 
tlie Law. 



Meddle only with 
what belongs to 
yon. 

Soom not the 
poor; 

flatter no one ; 
oppress (?) not 
servants ; 



20 



THE LYTYLLE CHILDRENES LYTIL BOKE. (HABL.Ml.) 



and be courteous 
and chaerfaL 



Don't whisper in 
any man's ear. 
Take your food 
with your flngertf 
and don't wMte it. 
Don't grin, or 
talk too much. 



or spill your food. 



Keep your doth 
before yon. 
[Pol. «07.] 

Cut your meat, 
don't bite it. 



Don't open your 
mouth too wide 
when you eat, 



or blow in your 

food. 

If your lord 

drinks, always 

wait till he has 

done. 



Keep your 
trencher clean. 



Drink behind no 
man's back. 



Don't rush at 
the cheese. 



or throw your 
bones on the floor. 



52 And honowre and curtesy loke pon kepe, 

And at the tabylle loke pan make goode chere ; 

Loke J)ou rownde not in nomannys ere. 

With thy fyngerys \>o\i towche and taste 
56 Thy mete ; And loke J>ou doo noo waste. 

Loke J)ou laughe not, nor grenne ; 

And wWi moche speche J)ou mayste do synne. 

Mete ne drynke loke pon ne spylle, 
60 But sette hit downe fayre and stylle.] 

Kepe thy cloth clene the byfome, 

And here the so * thow haue no scome. 

Byte not \>i mete, but kerve it * clene, 
64 Be welle ware no * drop be sene. 

Whan J)Ou etyst, gape not to wyde 

That J)i mouth be sene on yche a * syde. 

And son, beware, I rede, of * on thyng, 
68 Blow neper ® yn thi mete nor yn J)i 'f drynk. 

And yif thi lord drynk at pat tyde, 

Drynk J>ou not, but hym abyde ; 

Be it at Evyne, be it at noone,® 
72 Drynk pon not tylle he haue done. 

Vpon J)i trencher no fyllthe J)ou see,* 

It is not honest, as I telle the ; 

Ne drynk *® behynde no mannes bakke, 
76 For yf J)Ou do, thow art to lakke.** 

And chese come forthe,*^ be not to gredy,^* 

Ne cutte J>ow not therof to hastely.** 

Caste not fi bones ynto the flore, 
80 But ley pern '* fayre on J>i trenchore. 

Kepe clene ^i cloth byfore pe ** alle ; 

^ that 2 cut hit ^ that noo 

* be in euery * be ware of ^ }>ou not ' mete not 

^ morowe, (and omita next line.) * be sene 
*<^ Drynke pon not " blame ** by-fore the 

" redy ** To cut there-of be not to gredy. *' hem 

^* \>e omitted. 
The parts between square brackets [ ] are from the Egerton MS. 



THE YOUXa CHILDREN B BOOK. (A8HM.$L) 



21 



Be not prowd, bot meke & lynd, 
And with thi better go fon be-hynd. 
When fi better scbewys his wylle, 

64 To he haue seyd fon muste be stylle. 
When po\x spekes to Any mane, 
Hande, fote, & fyager, kepe ))ou styll )>any 
And lake pon vppe in to his face, 

68 And cz^rtase be in euerry place. 

With pi iynger schew pon no thynge, 
Nor be not lefe to telle tydinge. 
Yff Any man sey welle of f e, 

72 Or of thi frende^, thankyd muste be. 
Haue few worded, & wysly sette, 
Fore 80 fon may thi worschyppe gete. 
Vse no suerynge noper lyenge, 

76 Yn thi sellynge & thi byenge, 
Fore & poM do pon arte to blame. 
And at pe last Jwu wyUe haue schame. 
Gete J)i gowd with trewe[t]h & wywne, 

80 And kepe pe out of dette & synne. 
Be loth to greue, & leffe to pies ; 
Seke pQ pes, & lyfe in es. 
Oflfe whome pou speke^, where & when, 

84 A-vyse ^e welle, & to what men. 
When pon commys vn to A dore, 
Sey " god be here," or pon go ferre : 
Wer-euer pon commys, speke honestly 

88 To ser or dame, or per meny. 
Stand, & sytte not furth-w/tA^alle 
Tylle he byde pe pat rewlys pe halle ; 
Where he bydis, per must pon sytte, 

92 And fore none o^er change ne flyte ; 
Sytt vp-ryght And honestly, 
Ete & drinke, & be feleyly. 
Parte wi'tA hem pat sytes pe by, 

96 Thus teches J>e dame cwj-tasy. 



BenMeky 



and wait till jour 
better bu apolcen. 

When you speak 
to a man, keep 
•till, 

and look him in 
ihe&oe. 



Doo'tbea 
tale-bearer. 
Thank all who 
epeak well of yon. 

Use few words ; 



don't swear or lie 
in your dealings. 



Earn mon^ 

honestly, and keep 
out of debt 



Try topli 



seek peace; 

mind whom you 
speak to and what 
you say. 

Wherever you 

enter, say '* God 
be hero/' 

and speak 
ooarteoosly to 
master and man. 

Stand till you are 
told to sit at meat, 

and don't leave 
yonr seat before 
others. 

Sit upright; 

besodable, 
and share with 
your neighbours. 



I, 



22 



THE LTTYLLB CHILDRBNE8 LYTIL BOKE. (UARL.Sih) 



8it still till gnoe 
is said and yoa've 
washed your 
hands, 



and don't spit In 
the basin. 



Biae qnieU j, 
don't Jabber, bat 



[Fol.M7,backO 

thank yoar host 
and all the 
company. 



and then men will 

'A gentleman was 
here I' 

He who despisee 
this teaching 
isn't At to sit at a 
good man's table. 



Children, loTC this 
liUle book, and 



pray that Jesus 
may help its 
author to die 
among his Menda, 
and not be 
troabled with 
devils. 



And sit povL sty lie, what so be-falle,* 
Tylle grace be said vnto pe ende, 
84 And tylle pon haue wasshen 'with J^i frend. 
Let the more worthy J>an • thow 
Wassh to-fOre • ^e, & that is J)i prow ; 
And spitte not yn * J)i basyne, 
88 My swete son, pat ^ow wasshist yiie ; 
And aryse up soft & stylle,^ 
And iangylld nether with lak ne lylle, 
But take J)i leve of the hede ® lowly, 
92 And J>ank hym with thyne hert hyghly, 
And alia \>e gentyUis ^ togydre yn-same, 
And bare the so ^ thow haue no blame ; 
Than men wylle ' say theraf ter 
96 That a gentyllaman was heere. 
And he pat dispiseth this techyng, 
He is not worthy, wtt^ute lesyng, 
Nether at *® good mannes tabulle to ** sitte, 

100 Ner *• of no worships for to wytte. 
And therforc, chyldren, for '* charyte, 
Louyth this boke though yt lytil be ! '* 
And pray for hym pat made it thus,^* 

104 That hym may helpe swete Ihesua 
To lyve & dye among his frendes, 
** And neuer to be combred with no fendes ; 

* stylle wfttAalle ' thenne 

> by-fore * Spete not on (and omito next line.) 

^ And ryse witA bym that sate wt'tA the stylle, 
And thanke hym fayre and welle : 
Aftyr, langely not \rith lacke ne gylle. 

< lorde 7 p$ gmtyUeB omitted. > soo that 

• wylle they «ey 'o Neuyr at a *^ for to 
" Nothyr " pur 

^^ Lernythe thys boke that ys callyd Edyllys be 

'^ made thys 

*•-*» And T8 grannte in loy to a-byde ! 

Say ye alle Amen for charyde in euery sydc. 



,» 



THE YOUNG CUILDREN S BOOK. fASHM.n.) 



23 



Take fe salt vfith thi clene knyfe ; 
Be cold of spech, & make no stryfe ; 
Bakbyte no man fat in A-wey^, 

100 Be glad of AHe men wele to sey. 
Here & se, & sey thou nought, 
Than schall pow not to pi'ofe be brought. 
With mete & drynke be-fore fe sette, 

104 Hold pe plesyd, & aske no bette. 

Wype thi mouthe when fou wyll drinke, 

Lest it foule. thi copys brinke ; 

Kepe clene thi fyngeres, lypes, & chine, 

108 Fore so J>ou may thi wyrschype wynne. 
Yn pi mouth when \>i mete is, 
To drinke, or speke, or lau^h^ I-wys 
Dame ct/rtasy fore-bydc« it the : 

112 Bot prayse thi fare, wcr-so-euer fon be. 
Fore be it gode o?' be it badde, 
Yn gud worth it muste be had. 
Whe» J)ou spyte*, be welle were 

116 Where so \>o\i spyte«, ny3e or fere ; 
Hold J)i hand be-fore thi mouth 
When J)ou spytes, & hyde it couth. 
Kepe pi knyfe both clene & scherpe, 

120 And be not besy forto kerpe ; 

Clens pi knyfe wit^ some cutte bred, 
Not vfiih thi cloth. As I )>e rede : 
Wit^ Any fylth to fowle pe clothe, 

124 A Cf^rtase mane he wylle be lothe. 
In ]7i dysch sette not |)i spone, 
!NoJ>e^r on pe brynkc, as vn-lernyd done. 
When pou sopys, make no no[y]se 

128 WitA thi mouth As do boys. 
The mete pat on ))i trencher is, 
Putte it not in-to J)i dysch. 
Gete pe sone A voyder, • 

132 And sone A-voyd pon thi trenchere. 



Take mU with a 
clean knife ; 



talk no scandal, 

but aiwak well of 

alU 

Hear and see ; 

don't talk. 



Be satisfied with 
what's set before 
you. 

Wipe your mouth 
before you drink ; 
keep your fingers 
and lips clean. 



Don't speak with 
your mouth ftxU. 



Praise your food ; 
for whether it's 
good or bad, it 
must be taken in 
good parL 

Mind when you 
■pit, 

and put your 
hand before your 
mouth. 

Keep your knife 
clean. 



and don't wipe it 
on the cloth. 



Don't put your 
spoon in the dish. 



or make a nolse^ 
like boys, when 
you sup. 

Don't put meat 
oflTyonr plate into 
the dish. 



24 THE LTTTLLE GHILDRENES LTTIL SOKE. (HASL.Ml.) 

bat be In joy for And geve vs grace yn loy to be ; 

ever. Ameni 

108 Amen, Amen, for charytee ! *® 



Explicit, lerne or be lewde 
quod WhytyngJ^ 

^'f Ahen. 

Hsre endythe the boke of Curtesy that ys fulle neces- 
sary vnto yonge chyldryn that muste nedys lerne the 
maner of curtesy. 

Explicit. Amen. 



THE YOUNG CHILDREN S BOOK. fASHM.91.) 



25 



When thi better take fe the coppe, 
Drinke thi selfife, & aeite it vppe, 
Take the coppe with thi honde^. 

136 Lest it falle per As pon stonde^. 
When thi better spekcy to the, 
Do oflFe thi cape & bow J)i kne. 
At thi tabull nofer crache ne claw, 

1 40 Than men wylje sey J)ou arte A daw. 
Wype not thi nose nor J)i nos-thirlys, 
Than mene wylle sey J>ou come of cherlys. 
Make J^ou no))er cate ne bond {so in MS.) 

144 Thi felow at pou tabull round ; ( „ „ ) 
Ne pleye wiih spone, trenchere, ne knyffe. 
Yn honesty & clenys lede J>ou thi lyfife. 
This boke is made for chylder ^onge 

148 At the scowle fat byde not longe : 
Sone it may be conyd & had, 
And make them gode iff ))ei be bad. 
God gyife them grace, vertuos to be, 

152 Fore than f ei may both thryff & the. 

Amen ! quod Kate. 



Ifyoar>aperior 
hands jon a cup, 
drink. 

but take the oop 
with two hands. 

Wbenhespeaki 

to you, doff your 

cap and bend your 

knee. 

Don't scratch 

yottzveir at table, 

wipe your noae, 



or play with your 
spoon, Ac 



This book is for 
young children 
who don't st^y 
long at sdiool. 



God grant them 
grace to be 
virtuous ! 



26 



Stans ipner air Pensant. 

ASCRIBED TO JOHN LIDGATE. 

[MS. Harl. 22ol, ? about 1460 a.d., fol. 153 or 148. The 
parts between brackets [ ], and various readings, are from Mr 
Ilalli weirs print in JUliquia Antiqwg, v. 1, p. 156-8, of a 15th- 
century MS. Q. r. 8, fol. 77, r*, in the Library of Jesus College, 
Cambridge,] 

% [My dere childe, first thiself enable 
With all thin herte to vertuous disciplyne 
Afor thi soverayne standing at the table, 
4 Dispose thi youth aftir my doctryne 
To all norture thi corage to enclyne. 
First when thu spekist be not rekles, 
Kepe feete and fingeris and handes still in pese.] 

E symple of chiere, cast nat thyn ye aside, 
Agenst the post lete nat thy bak abyde ; 
Gaase nat aboute; towmyng oii<?ralle ; 
Make nat thy myTvour also of the wall^, 
1 2 Pyke nat thy nose, and in especialle 

Be right wele ware, and sette hieron thi thought, 
By-fore thy souerayne cracche ne rubbe nought. 

% Who spekithc to the in any mane?* place, 
16 Rudely * cast nat thyn ye * adowne. 

But with a sadde chiere loke hym in the face ; 

Walke demurely by strete in the towne, 

Advertise the withe wisdom and Reasounc. 
20 Withe dissolute laughters do thow non offence 

To-fore thy souerayn, whiles lie is in presence. 

* Bel, Ani.y Lumbisshly * hede 




27 



C|e IJook of Curtebie 



Stairs ipuer ab ^eiwani. 

[Lambeth MS, 853, a5. 1430 a.d., page 150, ^A:. 

Par^ written as prose J] 

JQLi dere sone, first ))i silf able 
w^t/^ al J)iii herte to vertuose discipline, — 
A-fore \>i souereyn -stondinge at pe table 
4 Dispose )k)u fee aftir my doctryne — 
To al nortur fi corage to encline. 
First while J)OU spekist, be not richelees ; 
Kepe bo))e fyngir and bond stille in pees ; 

8 Be symplo in cheer ; caste not ))i looke a-side, 
gase not about, tz^mynge ))i sijt oueral 
a^en f e post lete not pi bak abide, 
neiper make \>i myrrowr also of J)e wal. 
12 Pike not pi nose ; & moost in especial 
bo weel waar, sette her-on J)i ))0U3t, 
to-fore J)i souez-eyn cratche ne picke pee noujt. 



When jou tUnd 
before your 
■overeign. 



■peek not reok- 
leeely, and keep 
your hande itill. 



[Page 151.] 
Don't stare aboat, 

lean againut a 
post, look at the 
wall, pick your 
nose, or srralch 
yottTself. 



% Who-so speke to pee in ony mancr place, 
16 lumpischli caste not ))in heed a-doun, 

but 'with a sad cheer loke him in J^e face. 

walke demurely bi streetis in pe toun. 

And take good hede bi wisdom & resou7i 
20 poi bi no wantowne lau^inge pou do noon offence 

To-fore J>i souereyne while he is in presence. 



When spoken to, 
don't lampUhly 
look at the 
ground. 

Walk demurely In 
the streets, 

an'l don't lauph 
before your lord. 



28 8TANS PUER AD MENSAM. (HARL. MS.tUl.) 

% Pare clene thy nailes, thyn handes wassha also 
To-fore mete, and whan thow dooest arise ; 

24 Sitte in that place thow art assigned to ; 
Prease nat to hye in no man^* wise ; 
And til thow se afore the thy service, 
Be nat to hasty on brede for to byte, 

28 Of gredynesse lest men wolde the endwyte.* 

^ Grennyng and mowes at the table eschowe ; 
Cry nat to lowde ; kepe honestly silence ; 
To enboce thy lowis withe mete ^ is nat diewe ; 
32 Withe ful mowthe speke nat, lest thow do offence ; 
Drynk nat bretheles * for hast ne necligence ; 
Kepe clene thy lippes from fat of flesshe or 

fisshe ; 
Wype clene * thi spone, leve it nat in thy disshe. 

% Of brede I-by ten no soppis that thow make ; 
37 In ale nor wyne withe hande leve no fattenes ; 

Withe mowthe enbre wed thy cuppe thow nat take ; 

Enbrewe • no napery for no rekelesnes ; 
40 For to soiippe poude] is agenst gentiles ; 

[NJeucr at mete begynne thow nat ® stryf ; 

Thi tethe also thow pike nat withe no knyf. 

[Foi. 158, back.] ^ Of honcst myrthe late be thy daliaunce ; 

44 Swere none othes, speke no ribawdrye j 
The best morsel, have in remembraunce. 
Hole to thyself alwey do nat applie ; 
Part withe thy felaw, for that is curtesie : 
48 Laade nat thy trencho?/r withe many remyssailes ; 
And from blaknes alwey kepe thy nayles. 

^ Of curtesye also agenst the lawe., 

Withe sowne ^ dishonest for to do offence ; 
52 Of old surfaytes abrayde nat thy felawe ; 

Toward thy 8oue?*ayne alwey thyn aduertence ; 

^ a-wito. » brede it " bridlid "* fayre 

* Foul * be warre gyimc no ' Which sou 



BTANS PUER AD MEXSAM. (LAMBETH 118.963.) 



29 



Pare clene fi nailis ; fiw hondis waische also 

to-fore J)i mete, [&] whanne J^ou doist arise. 
24 sitte J>ou in J^at place pat poM art a-signed to ; 

Preco not to hie in no maner wise ; 

And whawne J>ou seest afore pee fi sendee, 

be not to hasti upon breed to bite 
28 lest men J>erof Do pee edwite. 

Ixrennynge & mowynge at pi table eschewe ; 
Crie not to lowde : honestli kepe silence. 
To enbrace fi iowis vfiih breed, it is not dewe ; 
32 wii^ ful mou]> speke not lest pon do offence ; 
Drinke not bridelid for haste ne necligence ; 
Kepe clene ])i lippis from fleisch & fische ; 
"Wipe faire fi spoon ; leue it not in f i dische. 

36 Of breed with J>i teef no soppis fou make ; 
Lowde for to soupe is a^en gentilnes : 
With mou^ enbrowide J>i cuppe pou not take, 
In ale ne in wiyn with bond leue no fatnes ; 

40 Defoule not J>e naprie bi no richelesnes. 

Be waar pat at pe mete poM bigy/me no striif ; 
Jji teej> also at pe table picke with no knyf. 

Uf honest imipe enere be fi daliaunce ; 
44 Swere noon oofis ; speke no ribaudie. 

J)e beste morsels, — ^haue fis in remembraunce,— 

HoUi alwey ])i silf to take do not applie. 

Parte witA fi felawis, for fat is curteisie. 
48 Lete not J)i trenchowr be with many morsels ; 

And fro blaknes kepe wcel ))i nailis. 

Qf curtesie it is a3en pe lawe, 
With dishoneste, sono, for to do difence ; 
52 Of oolde forfetis vpbraide not J>i felawo ; 
Towarde f i souereyn do euere reuerenoe. 



Clean yoor nails 
and wash your 
hands. 

Sit where you're 
told to, 



and don't be too 
hasty to begin 
eating. 

[Page 162.] 
Don't grin, shout. 



or stuff your 
Jaws with food, 

or drink too 
quickly. 
Keep your lips 
dean, and wipe 
your spoon. 

Don't make sops 
of bread. 



or drink with a 
dirty mouth. 

Don't dirty the 
table linen, 

or pick your teeth 
with your knife. 

Don't swear or 
talk ribaldry, or 
take the beet biu; 



share with your 
fellows. 
Eat up your 
pieces, and keep 
your nails clean. 



[Page 16S.J 

It's bad manners 
to bring up old 
complaints. 



30 STANS PUER AD MBNSAM. (UABL. MS. VBL) 

Play withe no knyf, take heede to my sentence ; 
At mete and soupper kepe the stille and soft ; 
56 Eke to and fro meve nat thy foote to oft. 

^ Droppe nat thi brest withe sawce ne withe potage ; 
Brynge no knyves vnskoured to the table ; 
Fil nat thy spone, lest in the cariage 
60 It went beside, whiche were nat comendable ; 
Be quyke and redy, meke and seruisable, 
Wele awaityng to fulfille anone 
What that thy souerayne comav[w]dithe the to 
be done. 

64 ^ And whereso euer that thow dyne or soupe, 
Of gentilesse take salt withe thy knyf ; 
And be wele ware thow blow nat in the cuppe. 
Eeuerence thy felawe, gyrme withe hym no stryf ; 
68 Be thy powere kepe pees al thy lyf. 
Interrupt nat, where so thow wende, 
None other mans tale, til he have made an ende; 

^ Withe thy fyngres make * thow nat thy tale ; 
72 Be wele avised, namly in tendre age. 

To drynk by mesure bothe wyne and ale ; 

Be nat copious also of langage ; 

As tyme requyrithe, shewe out thy visage, 
76 To gladde ne to sory, but kepe atwene tweyne, 

For losse or lucre or any case sodayne. 



[Fol. IM or 140.] 



^ Be meke in mesure, nat hasti, but tretable ; 
Ouer moche is nat worthe in no maner thyng ; 
80 To children it longithe nat to be [vengeable,*] 
Sone meeved and sone forgyvyng ; 
And as it is remembrid hi ' writyng, 
Wrathe of children is sone ouergone, 
84 Withe an apple the pa7*ties be made atone. 
* SeL Ant., marke ' MS. Harl, tretable ' Sel. Ant,^ by olds 



STANS FUER AD HENSAM. (LAMBETH MS. Wi.) 



31 



Pleie vfi\h no knif, take hede to my sentence ; 
At mete & at soper kepe ])ee stiUe & softe, 
56 And eek to & fro meeue not \\ feef to ofte. 



Don't play with 
your knife, 

or Bbaffle 
your fert about. 



Droppe not J^i brest w/t^ seew & Q\er potage, 
Briwge no foule knyues vnto fe table ; 
Fille not J)i spoon lest in fe cariage 
60 It scheede bi side, it were not commendable. 
Be quik & redi, meke & sendable, 
Weel awaitinge to fulfille anoow 
Wbat fat \\ souereyn commaujidif to be doon. 



Don't spill your 
brotb on your 
cheat, or use dirty 
knives, or fill your 
spoon too ftdl. 



Be quick to do 
whatever your 
lord orders. 



64 Ajid where-so-euere bou be to digne or to suppe, Take salt with 

, your knife; don't 

Of gentilnes take salt witA J)i knyf, Wow in your cup. 

And be weel waar fou blowe not in J^e cuppe. 
Reuerence \\ felawis; bigywne witA he/w no strijf ; 
68 To J)i power kepe pees al J)i lijf. . 

Intrippe no maw where so fat f ou wende, in husto "^ *"*" 

No man in liis tale, til he haiie maade an eende. 



^ 'With J)i fyngris marke not f i tale ; 



[Page 154.] 



72 



76 



80 



84 



Drink wine and 
ale in moderation. 



be weel avysid, &, nameli in tendir age, 

To drinke mesurabli bofe wiyn & ale. 

Be not to copiose of langage ; 

As tyme requiri]> schewe out f i visage, 

To glad, ne to sory, bwt kepe fee euene bitwene but keep a middle 

For los, or lucre, or ony case sodene. 



Dont Ulk too 
much, 



course. 



Se soft in mesure, not hasti, but treteable ; 
Ouer soft is nou^t in no maner ])ing ; 
To children longi]> not to be vengeable, 
Soone meued and soone fijtinge ; 
And as it is remewbrid bi writynge, 
wraf fe of children is ouercome soone, 
W/tA J)e pa /'tis of an appil ben made at oon. 



Be gentle and 
(ractaUeb but not 
too soft. 

Childrsn must not 
be revengeftal ; 



their anii^r is 
appeased with a 
bit of apple. 



32 8TANS FUER AD MENSAM. (HAUL, MS. mi.) 

51 In children werre ^ now myrthe and now debate, 
In theyr quarel no grete violence ; 
Now pley, now wepyng, sielde in one estate ; 
88 To theyr playntes gyve no credence ; 

A Eodde refowrmythe al theyr insolence ; 
In theyr corage no Hancoz/r dothe abyde ; 
Who sparithfi the yerd, al vertu set aside. 

LENVOYB. 

92 ^ Go, litel bille, bareyn of eloquence, 

Pray yonge children that the shal see or Iteede, 
Thoughe thow be compendious of sentence, 
Of thi clauses for to taken heede, 
96 Whiche to al vertu shal theyr yowthe leede. 
Of the writyng, thoughe ther be no date, 
If ought be mysse, — worde, sillable, or dede, — 
Put al the defaute vpon lohne Lydegate. 

> Itel. Ant,y In childre 



STANS FUER AD MENS AM. (LAMBETH MS, 863.) 33 

Xn children werre is now mirj^e & now debate, chUdren'a 

In her quarel is no violence, J2Sr7tte^!Si5teg; 
now pleie, now wepinge, & seelde in oon state ; 

88 to her pleyntis aeue no credence : don't boUeve their 

*■ " -^ ' complaints; give 

A rodde refonnej) al her necligence ; 'em the rod. 

in her corage no rancot^r doo]) abide, spare that, and 

who fat sparij) fe rodde all uertues settij) a-side. ^~ ^ *^ *"* 



92 £^ ! litil balade, voide of eloquence, [Page iss.] 

I praie 3011 jonge children \ai ])is schal se & rede^ Toang ohudren, 
pouj je be copious of sentence, myiittie baiiad. 

Jit to fese clausis for to take hede Jo^'^SIll^"'* 

96 Which al into vertues schal jowre 30uJ)e lede. virtue. 
In J)is writynge, fouj fer be no date, 
Yf ou3t be mys in word, Billable, or dede, ^'bmit'to'** * 

I submitte me to correccioun wet^oute ony debate. eofwcUon. 



Thus eendith ]>e book of enrteisie ))at is clepid 
stans puer ad mensant 



M 



#f i\t Panners to king one to 



lononr 



My ton, ru teU 
yoa what mannen 
will bring yoa 
bononrand 
welfive. 



S' 



Take care of y oar 
maater's goods aa 
yoar own. 

Wareaogryworda. 

FearahamAi 

Let otbera 
apeak flnt. 

[PagelW.] 
Bow toyoor 
bettera. 



Sport with your 
equals 

and leave off in 
good time. 
Pat op with big 
words: better 
bow than barst. 

Learn fttun eveiy 
nn<in. 



Don't tell all yoa 
hear. 

Beware of after, 
regrets* 

Be not too tale- 
wise, neither too 
merry nor too sad. 

Keep the middle 
way. 



[One, y schal J^ee scliewe, — ^now take hede, — 
And of suclie maners fee declare 
Bi whiche fou schalt come to manhede, 
4 To wordli worschip, and to weelfare. 
^ What man Jwjti seruest, euermore him drede, 
And hise goodis as ]>in owne euere ]>ou spare ; 
Lete neuere J)i wil J)i witt ouer lede ; 
8 Of wrajyful wordis euermore be ware. 
^ pe higynnjnge of fi worschip, is to drede schame ; 
Lete oj>ere men talke her talis or ]>oii, 
And her wittis loke ])ou not blame ; 
12 Vnto J>i betere euermore J)Ou bowe ; 

TT And whawne fou schalt boorde, bourde wiHi fi 
peerej 

And leue of to pleie wha^ine fee list best. 

And for to soffre greete wordis, is manere, 
16 And often tyme it is bet^re to bow fan to berst; 

And of euery mannis witt loke fat j>ou lere, 

And fat rial tresoz^r )>ou close in fi chest ; 

Telle neuere J>e more Jjou^ fon myche heere, 
20 And euere be waare of had-y-wist 

In companies be neuere to tale-wijs, 

Ne ouer myrie, ne ouer sadde, 

Lest in \>i berynge men acounte fee oner nyce; 
24 Kepe euere J>e meene, and euere be a-drad. 



THE MANNERS TO BRING HONOUR AND WEALTH* 



35 



f Wtih bro)>els ne boies loke Jxni wti^ hem neuere 
play, 
For fat povL hem tellist )>ou schalt heeie eft 
And if fovL se a wastot^r owher, y ^ee pray, 
28 His felowschip fayn y wolde )>at )>ou left. 
If Medle not wOh mysrule by no maner way, 
For good man^r he ha)> from bym scbifte ;^ 
For y haue ofte seen )>is in fay, 
32 pat £ro manye men be ba^ manbode refte. 

[? one stanza of 4 lines wanting] 



Don't play with 
rackety men : 
what 70a tell 
them 70a hear 
again. 

ATold epend* 
thrift's company. 



Mix not with 
Mlnrole: herobi 



[Page 1570 
men of their 
maalKKxl. 



^nh iD^at son M at fo^at son hm^. 

[MS. Trin. Coll Camhndge, 0. 9.38.] 

boo tbat comy^t to an bowse, 
loke be be noo tbyng' dongerowse 
To take secbe as be fyndyjt j 
4 And yf be wolle not do soo, 
Keson A-greejt tbere-too 
To take sucbe as be bryngyjt 



C|e lltloarb 0! % Pan % beggars 

Himself. 

[MS. Trin, OaU, Cambridge^ 0. 9.38, written as prose.] 

with tbys bytel be be smete. pat alia pe worle 

mote byt wete 

Jjot yevyt bys goode to bys kynne. & gotb bym 

sylfe A beggyng ' 

8» 



36 




tk % doob Hrjf tuiit ^k ^mik. 



[Lambeth MS. 853, ab. 1430 a.d., page 102; written without 
breaks. The yarious readings are from one of the MS. Tolumee of 
Lyc^te's Works in Trin. Coll. Oamb. Library, B. 3.19. I owe the 
readings to the kindness of Mr W. Aldis Wright] 



Tba good Wife 



■aid to her 
DKOghtor, 



The good wijf taujte hir doujtir 
Ful' manye a tyme* & ofte 

A ful> good womman to be, 
And seide " dou^tir to' me' deie, 
Sum good fovL must lere 

If euere * Jwm wolt J>ee. 



'IfyoawUlbea 



[* Page 103.] 

love God and go 
to ehnrch ; don't 
let the rain atop 
yoa. 



Iloujtir, if foM wolt ben a wijf,' 
8 Loke wijsly J>at J>ou worche, 
Loke loueli * and in good lijf 
jxm loue god & holi chirche.' 
^ Go to chirche whanne ])ou may, 
12 Loke fovL^ spare for no reyn, 
^ For ])ou farist ]>e best fai ilke day 
"Wbanne* J)ou hast god y-seyn. 
^ ®He muste need weel friue 
])at liue^ weel al his lyne,^ 
My leef child. 



16 



1-1 Omitted. • Many tymes 

** wyse & wysely wyrke 
Loke thow lone well« thy god and holy chyrche 
« & ^ MU the day thow fiuyst the bet >at 

^ WelU proneth that god loueth 



HOW THE GOOD WWP TAUJTB HIR D0n3TIEL 37 



Qiadli ^ jeue )>i ti]>i8 & pm of&Tiige' bo])e ; Pajttthe, care for 

J}e poore & ])e beedered, loke fou not ' loj>e ; th«poor, giv« 
20 3eue of )>m owne good, and be ^ not to hard. 
For seelden is ])at^ hous pooie fere god is steward. 
* Weel he prouef 
pat J>e poore loueJ>,* 
24 Mi leue child. 

Whanne^ ^u sittist in ^ chirche, J>i beedis Jk)u ^ church, pwy, 

schalt^ bidde ; 
*Make J>ou no iangelynge To freende nor to *»**ch«tt«r. 

sibbe;® 
laige Jk)u "^ to scome noufer/* ^oolde bodi® ne 

jonge, 
28 But be of f air beerynge & of good tunge ; Btooortooiuto 

poxuf pi fair beerynge 

pi worschip ha)> encresynge, 
Mi leue child. 



32YIf ony man biddij)^* be worschip, and wolde i>»pt««noo<fcr 

of nuuriage^ but 

wedde ])ee, 
Loke ]>at ^ou scome him not,*' what-eo-«aere he 
be, 

f Page IM.] 

But' schewe it to )>i fireendis/&for-hiIe)>oa^^ it oouaityoar 

frtondi} 

noujt ; 
Sitte not»» bi him, neij)er stoonde,»» J)ere synne S^if,o^,r 
myjte be wrou3t, SjSSr*^^"*"'** 

36 For® a sclauTidre reisid ille'^ 

Is yuel for to stille, 
Mi leue childe. 

' Gladly thow ' offrynges > bedered ^at |yey be thee nat 
* |eue thow hem of thy good and be fwu. ^ seldom ys the 
'"^ Welltf he tresoreth that the poore honowreth "^ And when 
^ bedys to ^> Omitted. ^o lawe >oa nat " neyther 
'* Tef any man bid ^*nat. (Throughout, fta/ is written for fio<.) 
" forhele " stand 



38 



HOW THB GOOD WU9 TAU^TE HIB DOUJTIB. 



Love 7oar |ra>- 
band above all 
earthly tlilnga. 
Aiwwwhim 
meiekly 

and he'll love yon. 



Beoheerflil 



aadtmeb 



and keep flree 
ttcm blame. 



Be wen- 
mannered, 

[• Page 106.] 



not a romp or 
rude. 



Xhat man ]»at schal ))6 wedde bifor god wi)> a 

40 Loue ]k>u^ him & honouie mooet of er])eli )>ing ; 
Meekely ]>oulum answero,' And not' as an attir- 

ling, 
And 80 maist ))ou slake^ his mood^ And ben his 
dere derlyng© : 
A fair worde '^and a meeke 
44 dooj) wTa]))>e alake,^ 

Mi leue child. 

f air of speche schalt ^u be, §^de, & of mylde 

mood, 
Tiewe in woide & in dede, and in conscience® 
good; 
48 Eepe pee from synne, fro vilonye, & fro blame, 
And loke ])at ^ fon beere )>ee so pat men seie fee 
no schame ; 

' For he Jat in good lijf rennej, 
Ful ofte weel he wynnef,^ 
52 Mi leue child. 

JSe of semeli semblaunt, w\]S, and oper^ good 

maner, 
Chaunge not pi contynaunce for nott^t pat * povL 

may heere ; 
Fare not' as a gigge, for nou3t )>at may bitide, 
56 Lau3e pon^ not to loude,* ne jane povL not to' 
wide, 

>^fiut lauje ^ softs & myelde, 
And be not of cheer to wielde,'® 
Mi leue child. 

^ Omitted. ' Answere hym faire ' nat 

* thow shalt stylltf *-^ to py make oft vrethe doth stake 

* thy oonscyenoe ^'^ Oood lyfe reneweth and wdl^ wynneth 
^ Of fayre semblant shalt thow be, wys, and of good manere 
*'* long, ne yane nat 

10-10 Yet lawgh thow may ft mery wordya say 



HOW THB GOOD WIJP TAUJTB HIR DOU^TIR. 39 

^^ jflLnd whan ])ou goiBt in ]>e way, go foM^ not to in walking, 
faste, 
Braundische not w^tA bin heed, bi schuldris ]>ou don't tow 70m 

bead and wriggto 
ne caste ^ your sboolden. 

Haue pou not to manye wordis; to swere be Jh)u Don't swear. 

not leefe, 
For alle sncli maners comen to an yuel pieef : 
64 * For he p&t cacchi]) to him an yuel name^ 

It is to him a foole fiinie,' 
Mi leue childe. 

IXo poM not into ])e toun as it were a gase in town, don't 

' 68 From oon hous to ano^r for to seke pQ mase ; 
Ne wende Jou not to J)e* market J)i borel* for to 

selle. 
And Jeanne* to be taiwme bi worschip to felle,* or get drank on 

yoar doth-numey. 

^ For fei fat tau^mes haunten, 
72 Her ))rifte pei adaunten,^ 

My leue child. 

And if pou be in place where ^ good ale is on wh«i« good ale 

lofte, "«**• 

Whefer J>at fou seme *J)erof, or psi ])0U sitte C^Piweioe.] 
softe, 
76 MesurabU® J^ou take J>er-of Jat Jou falle in no drink moderateij. 
blame, 
For if bou be ofte dru»ke, it falle® bee to if y<m get drank 
schame ; diegnwsd. 

*** For ])0 ]»t ben ofte dmnke, 
J>rift is from hem sunke,*® 
80 Mi leue child. 



^ Omitted. >-' Euyll^ name ys euell^ fame 

3 borelU « Ne » for to fyll« 

>-* He that tau^mes hanntetb, hyr thryft adaanteth 
^ l^er^ * Mesurely * hit falleth 

>«■»• He fat ys oft dranko, thryft ys fro hyi» sonke, 



40 



Don't go to publio 
shows like a 



stnimpet» but stij 
at home. 



HOW THE GOOD WUF TAUJTE HIB DOUJTIR. 

Ijo not to pe ^ wrasteluige, ne to schotynge at ' 

cok, 
As it were a strumpet or a gigggelot : 
wone' at horn, dou^tir, and loue fi werk myche, 
84 And 80 ])oa schalt, my leue child, wexe soone 
riche. 

^ It is eu^rmore a myrie )>ing, 
A man to be serued of his owne fing,^ 
Mi leue child. 



When any man 
speaks to yon, 

greet him only. 



and then let hlip 
goon. 



as he might tempt 
yoa to wrong. 



®® jflLqweynte fee not with eche maw fat goof bi 
f e strete ; 
j^ouj ony man speke^ to fee, Swiftli fou him 

grete; 
Lete him go bi f e wey : bi him fat fou no ® 

stonde, 
J?at he* bi no vUonye fin herte my3te fonde, 
92 ^ For alle men ben not trewe 

Jjat kunne fair her wordis schewe,' 
Mi leue child. 



[• Page 107.] 
Take no gifts; 



they're the ruin 
of many a true 
woman. 



jflLlso,^ for no coueitise, ^iftis fat fou ^noon 
take; 
96 But fou wite ri3t weel whi ellis,* soone fou hew» 
forsake, 
For with jiftis mew may wommen ^ ouer goon 
Jjouj f ei were as trewe as steel eif er stoon. 
*® Boundew forsof e sche is 
100 fat of ony man takif 3iftis,*** 

Mi leue childe. 

1 Omitted. > shetyng at fe ^ Syt 

*-* Mery[w] ys owne thyng on to loke fan any o\>er mannjs on 
to tote 

A he speko feyre * nat 

'f For alltf men be nat trew ^at feyre spekyn ^ Ne 

• women 
lo-ie for boundyn ys she \>at taketh yeftys 



HOW THB GOOD WIJF TAUJTE HIR DOUJTIB. 41 

And w\J8li gou^me fon ]>in hous and pi ' meyne : with yoar hoaM. 
To bittir ne to honour with hem fat ]>ou ne' be, sharp or too euy ; 
104 But * loke weel * what is moost neede to doone, wh^mortneidB* 
And sette J>i meyne perio hoJ)e ratheli* & eoone, ^***"** 
For redi is at nede 
A fom doon dede, 
108 Mi leue chUd. 

jflLnd if ]>in hushonde he irom^ hoome, lete not iryonrhnsiMind's 
J,i meyne goon^ ydil, ^l^.i.'^S^Z 

But loke weel who dooj) myche' eifer litU, J^^i^Jto^ 

And he J)at weel doo]>, pou * qwite him weel his ^^ ^• 
whyle,® 
112 And he ])at doo]) opery serue him as ])e vile 
A fom doon dede 
"Wole Buoper spede, 
Mi leue child. 



116 And if pi nede be greet & J>i tyme streite, ]^w*a*^ 

Jja»* go J)i eilf perto & worche *an houswijfes* ■^'i 
brayde, 



panne wille J>ei alle do J>e bettir J>at aboute J>ee •" win do better 



10 

stande[8].*® 

pe work is pe sonner do psA ha]> many handis,*' 
1 20 ** For manye handis & wight 

Make an heuy worke light ; 
Aftir ]>i good seruise 
]^i name schal arise,'' 
124 Mi leue childe. 



' Gon^me weU^ aUo thyne howse & wysely thy ^ Omitted. 
> welltf abowte ^ and pat lyghtly ^ yef py mastyr be fro 

• go ' mykyll* 
^ Tiin. ColL MS. whyle. (The Lambeth MS. has mede.) 

* and make a wyues breyde 

^^^^ AUe pej doon the bettyr pat about l^ee stondyn 

" hondyn ^^" Many hondya & smert makyn lyght werke 



42 



Look after your 
hooMhold whMi 
at work; 



and have ftmlta 
put to rights at 
once. 



HOW THE GOOD WUF TAUJTE HIR DOU^TIB. 

And ' what so' )>1 meyne do, aboute^ hem ])ou 

wende, 
And^ as myche as pan maist, be at fai^ oon 

eende. 
And if poM fynde ony^ defaute, do it soone^ 
ameende 
128 So* J)ei haue tyme* and* space &• may hem de- 
fende. 

*® To compelle a dede to be doon & fere be 
no space, 
It is hut tyrannye wM-out temper- 
auTice & grace,^^ 
Mi leue child. 



See everything 
straight when 
they leave work; 
keep your k«ya 
yoaml^ 



and beware whom 
yoa trust. 



132 ^' jflLnd loke f&t alle )>ingis be weel whanne pQi her 
werkis lete, 
And take ]>e keies iTi-to pi warde, loke )>ei hen 

not forgete ; 
And be waar to whom j>ovL trostis, and spare for 
no qweyntise, 



I Loke *^ Omitted. ' and about 

^ At exurj dede pal shuld be do * the ^ fyndyst a 

' sone do hit * So l^at ' ^ot pey 

10-10 Meche besynesse behoueth hem pat shall howse holden 

II The next two stanzas of the Lambeth MS. are transposed (in 
an altered form) to another part of the Trinity MS.' as shown in 
the second and first stanzas in the notes on p. 45 and p. 46. The 
Trin. MS. has here, for IL 182-45, the following : 

In other mennys honsys make pcu no maystry ; 
Blame ptm nat wrongfully pat pon seest wttA thyne ey. 
Dowgtyr, I pray thee, here the so welU 
That alltf men mow sey l^ou art as trew as Steele : 
A good name many folde ys more worthe then golde, 



My lene 
Chylde. 



Be thow no chyder, ne of wordys boold 

To myssay pj neyghbors nonther yong ne ooldo ; 

Be Jtou nat to mody ne to enuyous 

For nought pat may betyde in o)^&r mennys hous : 

An enuyous hert oft doth smert, 



Myleef 
Chylde. 



BOW TH£ GOOD WUV TAUJTB HIR DOUJTIB. 43 

For myche harmB ha^ falle to them ^at ben not 



"wiae; 



136 Buty doi^tir, loke ]Kzt ^u be wise, & do 

as y pee teche, 
And trust * noon bettir fan f i silf, for no C* p«8» iw.] 
fair specbe, 
Mi leue cbilde. 

And jeue pi meyne thar hire At per terme day Pvroorpeopia : 
140 Whejwr p&i J)ei dwelle stille or pei wende awey, *"***^^'^» 
Doo weel bi hem of ]>i good pat pou hast in wdbegenAroas 

, - to them. 

welde, 
And )>an schal f ei seie weel of pee, bo]>e pe yonge 
and oolde ; 
pi good name is to ])i freendis 
144 greet ioie & gladnes, 

Mi leue childe. 

Ajid if ])i neigbons w\jf hsip^ on riche a-tire, Don't be jetioos 
)}erfore mocke )k)u ne scome,^ brenne not as fier, bosn^Tflne draas. 
148 But])ankegodofheaenforJ>athehath])e3euene, ThuikOodibr 
And so povL schalt^ my doa3tir, a good lijf 
lyuande.' 
^ he ha)» eese at weelde 
psA peoikep god feele & seelde,^ 
152 Mi leue cMld. 

Bwuswijfli bou schalt goon on* pe woike day work aiiigenuy 

r. . Tn on workday!, 

[iwis,]® 
Pride, reste, & ydilnes, makip on-f riftines ;^ 
And® whanne pe holi day is come, weel^ schalt and worship God 

poM be 
156 J)e holi day in * woischipe, & god wole loue pee ; 

1 hane * make l^oa no stryfe ne ' lyuen 

^ He hath esy to welde ^at thanketh selde 
B Honestly shalt )>ow go > Omitted. ^ cast hit alle away 
, 8 cloihyd honestly ' The good lord 



44 

imHolydajt. 



CPag« 110.] 

Love your 
neighboun, 



and do aa yoa'd 
bediHieby. 



HOW THE GOOD WUP TAUJTB HIR DOUJTIR 

* Haue in mynde to god is worschip [ay], 
For myche pnde come]) of fe yuel day,* 
Mi leue d/iild. 

l60%^WhBsme povL art a wijf, a nei3l)0i« for to be, 
Loue fsLYi weel pi ne^boris, as god h&p 

comaundide fee ; 
It bihoue]) pee so for to do. 
And to do to pern as pou. woldist be doon to. 
164 If ony discorde happen nygbt or daye, 

Make it no worse, meende it if pon 
may, 

Mi leue child. 



Ifyoaararieh, 
be hoapltable 



and help the poor 
intheirneed. 



^nd if povL schalt be a riche wijfe. Be ]>an not 
to hard, 
168 "But weelcome faire pi neiboris pat comen to pee 
waide 
With mete, drinke, & honest chere, Such as ])oa 

maist to hem bede, 
To ech man after his degre, & help pe poore at 
neede j 
and also for Hap pat may bitide, 

^-^ More for godd«f frenfiliyp than the worlds worshyp 

s Instead of lines 160-187, the Trin. Coll. MS. has the following : 

Moche shame be they worthy, & sorow wolk hem betyde 
That maketh hyr housbondM poore l^orow her moche 

pryde. f Myleef 

Be toJle wyse, donghtyr, & An howsewyfe good ; ( chylde. 

Aftyr the wrenne hath yeynes let pou hyr blood. 
Hys thryft wezeth thynne pat spendeth or he wynne, 



Syt nat vp long At enyn As A gase wttA the cnppe 

To sey wessayle, & ^nke heyll^ Our syrys thryft ys 

vppe, 
Bat go to bedde betyme, & A morow ryse blyue, 
And so pon shalt, my leve chylde, bothe wynne & thryne, 
Alld ease may nat feXU to hym pat thryue shall^, 



Myleef 
chylde. 



HOW THE GOOD WUP TAUJTB HIR DOUJTIR. 45 

172 Please weel ]>i neijboris pat dwelle peQ 

biside, 

Mi leue child. 



JloTightiry loke ]>at ]>ou be waare, wbat-sum- Don't rain your 

eu^re pee bitide, 
Make not pin busbonde poore with spendinge yonrextrara- 

ne With pnda 
176 A man must spende as be may pat ba]) but if Ws poorly off. 

easy good, 
For aftir be wrenne bab veynes. Men must lete Bleed a wren 

, . /, , r ^ y aooonilngtoito 

bir blood ; Teina. 

His * }«ifte wexij) J>inne [• Pi»«e mi 

Jjot spendif or be wywne, 
180 Mi leue cbild. 

Borowe not to besely, nor take not bin bire Don't borrow, or 

take yoar own 
first daeiflxit» 

£ut if pe more nede it make, & grettir distresse ; 

Ne make bee not to seme ricbe "With oper orehowoffwith 

othera' goods. 

mennis ping^ 



With ryche Roobys and garloncUf, & with lyehe thyng, \ 
GotmUrfete no lady as thy hosbond were a kyn^. J j^f^i^f 

WtU sncbe as be may the ayde, apayde shalt l^ow be, ^ ^ 
That no conntenauitce be lost for cause of thee : . 

Onyrdone pryde maketh nakyd syde, . / 



chylde. 



Loke welltf abowte ; for no l^yng ]^ai l^ow lete ; 
Take the keyes in to l^y warde, be they nat foryete ; t i^r } t 
Bethynke the welk in j^ought ; let for no qneyntyse ; > ^7^^^ 
And bnt yef )h>w do so, ]^ovl dost nat as the wyse. \ ^"7^^^* 

For who pat \ovLe\> hym sylf best, Most may lyne in rest, 

Sorow' nat to blythely, ne take nat )>y hyre forst, 

But the more nede hyt make or the gret^ byrst. 

Make the nat ryche with other mennys thyng, I My leef 

Ke neayr the boldyr to spende a farthyng ; i chylde. 

For what soeiur ptm hane to done, 

Borowyd thyng wyll^ home 

^ A mistake for * Borow.* 



46 



HOW THE GOOD WUF TAU^TB HIB DOUJTIB. 

184 Ne pertove spende neuere ])e more of a ferthing ; 
For Jjou^ J>ou borowe faste, 
It must hoome i^on at laste, 
Mi leue child. 



If Toar chfldm 



doo*tcane them. 



Imt give 'em * 
•mart fioggiing. 



188 A^d if pi children been' rebel, & wole not hem 
lowe,* 
If ony* of hem mys doo]), noufer* banne hem ne 

blowe, 
But take a smert rodde,'^ h bete hem on a rowe 
Til )>ei crie mercy, & be of her gilt aknowe. 
192 ® Leue child, by-houeJ> loore, 

And euere leuer J>e more,^ 
Mi leue child. 



On your daogh- 
ten'Urthfl 



begin to oqlleet 
goods for their 



And 7 loke to pi dou3tren ^ pat noon of hem be 
lorn: 
196 Fro )>at ilk tyme pat )>ei be of pee^ bom, 

Bisie pee, & gadeie faste towarde her maiiage, ' 
And jeue hem to spowsynge as soone as )>ei ben 
ablee.»« 

" Maydens ben fair A amyable, 
200 But of her loue ful vnstable," 

Mi leue child. 



[Page 118.] 
Keep all that I're 



How haue y J^ee tau3t, dou3tir, As my modir 

dide me ; 
pinke peron nyjt and day, forjete J^at it not be ; 



And yeue \fy meyny her hyre at her terme day, \ 

Whether they ahyde stylltf or weade away ; j ir i # 

Yeue ^oa hem of thyne owne, & so wysely thee welde \ km 

That pj frendys haue loy of thee, both yong And elde : I ^^J^^^' 

Thy tiiryft ys l^y frend«f myrthe. / 

^ Chyldre be ' bowe * any < myido, ne ^ yarde 
^ Leue chylde behoueth lore, And easr |>e lenyr the more, 
7 Omitted. ^ doughtree ^ the }^ be of age 

n-u Maydonys be lonely, but to kepe |>ey be Tntnuty 



HOW THE GOOD WLJF TAUJTE HIR DOU}TIR. 47 

204 Haue mesure and lownes, as y haue ]>ee taujt, toid7oa,aodyoar 
And* what man J>e wedde schal, him dare care re^JlrtrnTnyUig 
nou^t. ^°^ 

Betere were a child vnbore 
J)an vntaujt of wija lore,^ 
208 Mi leue child 

How J>rifl and jjeedom mote* )k)u haue, my swete Hy Bweetgiri, 

bam,* 
Of alle onre former fadris bat euere were or aren, ""y an the 

patrlaxdu* 

Of alle patriarkis and prophetis pat euere weren 
alyue,^ 
212 Her blessinge mote fou. haue, & weel mote pon bieningbewith 

, . ,» yoo, and may yoa 

pnue!' thrive 1 

For weel is J>e child 
J)at wij) synne wole not be filid, 
Mi leue child. 

216 Xho blessynge of god mote pou. haue, and of XaarCbriat^aiid 
his modir bri3t, ' " 

Of alle auwgils & of alle archaungils, and of alle Angehibieaayoa, 
holy wight, 

And pat fou mowe haue grace to wende be wey Mdgiveyim 

grace to get to 

fulnjt 
To pQ blis of heuene pere sittij) god almy3t, heaven's biiaai' 

AMEN. 

> Omitted > l^en vntangbt * the blefisyng of gpd mot 

* baren » And of • on lyno 

7 The Trinity MS. aids here with « Mj leef Ghylde. Amen/' 



48 




ofe % MiBt Han tan^t f is Son. 



[Lambeth MS. 853, afc. a.d. 1430, ^xw/e 186.] 



Hear how the 
wtoe man taught 
blafon, 



while It 
yoong 



and deilroiu to 



'First in the 
morning, praj 
to God 



[Page 187.] 

that 7oa may not 
ain. 



T Istnif lordingis, & je sclmleii hero 
How ]>e wise man tau^t his sonne. 

And take good tent to piB matere, 
4 And leme it also if je kunne. 

})Ib song was maad hi good resoun 

To make men true and stidfast ; 

And whanne a ping is weel bigunne, 
8 It maki]) a good eende at fe laste. 

Xher was a wise man tau3t his child 
While it was jong and tendir of age ; 
]}e child was bojie meeke & myelde, 

1 2 Faire of body and of visage ; 
To leeme it hadde a good corage, 
And to al goodnesse a greet desire ; 
With good ensaumple and faiie langage 

16 His fadir taujt him weel and faire, 

And seide, ^^ my sonne, take good hede, 
Bi J>e morewe euery day 
Or J>ou do ony wordli deede, 

20 Lifte vp fin herte to god, & pray 
Deuoutly as ]>ou can or may 
pat pon in grace fi ly f may lede, 
And synne to flee bo))e nyjt & day, 

24 pat heuen blis may be ]>i mede. 



HOW THE WISE MAN TAU}T HIS BONNE. 



49 



and Sonne, wlier^ foi euere povL go, 
Be not to tale-wijs bi no wey, 
pin owne tuwge may be fi foo; 

28 Jjerfore be waar what ]k>u doist say, 
Where, & to whom, be ony wey, 
Take good he^e if ))ou do seie oujt, 
For J)ou myjte seie a word to-day 

32 f)at .vij. 3eer after may be for-foujt. 

iLnd Sonne, what maner man pon be, 
Jeeue J>ee not to ydibiesse, 
But take good hede of pi degree, 

36 And pGTon do pi bisynesse. 
Be waar of reste and ydihiesse, 
Whiche J^ingis norischen sloujie. 
And euere be bisi more or lesse, 

40 It is a ful good signe of trouj^e. 

An rl Sonne, also y waame ]>ee, 
Desire noon of&ce for to beere, 
For J>an it wole noon oJ>ir bee, 

44 pon mnste ]>i neijboris displese & dere, 
Or ellis fou muste fi silf forswore, 
And do not as pin. office wolde. 
And gete J>ee mawgre heere & J>eere 

48 More ])an ))ank, an hundrid folda 

And Sonne, as fer as pou may lere, 
On yuel qwestis J)OU not come, 
Neijwr fals witness J)ou noon here 

52 On no mannys matere, al neij>er somme ; 
J)ou were betere be deef & dombe 
pQXi falseli to go upon a qweste. 
Sonne, finke upon pat dreedful doome^ 

56 How god schal deeme us at pe laste. 



Don't be too 
ftiU of tales; 



beware what you 
«yi 



yon may repent 
it afterwards. 



Don't be idle. 



bat work. 



Aiwaya be boay. 



[Page 188.] 
Don't bear ofBo^ 



for yon most 
either offend 
yoor neighbours 
or not do your 
duty. 



Don't go on Im- 
proper inquesta, 
or bear fidae wit- 
ness in any eansa. 
Ton'd better be 
deaf and dumb. 



50 



HOW THE WISE MAN TAU^T HIS 60NNB. 



Bewan of tavmro- 
haanUng, dloa^ 

CPagt 189J 
Mid UdtMrj. 



And 807me, of oon ]>mg y fee waame, 
And on my blessynge take good hede. 
Be waar of vsinge of )>e tauemey 

60 And also pe d\J8 y fee forbede. 

And flee al letcheiie in wil and dede 

Lest fovL come to yael preef, 

For alle pi wittis it wole ou^r lede, 

64 And bringe pee into greet myscheef. 



Don't tit up too 
long, have lata 
mppers, or be out 



toolato. 



£Lx^d Sonne, sitte not up at euen to longe, 
J^eiper vse no rere souperis late ; 
)>ou) povL be bo];e bool an strong, 

68 With Bucb outrage it wole aslake ; 
And of late walking come]) debate, 
And out of tyme to sitte & drink, 
J^erfore be waar & keep ))i state, 

72 And go to bedde bi tyme, & wynke. 



Don't marry a 
wilb toKvacoBy, 

but And oat aU 
about her, and 
bareaniMkona; 
never mind b«r 
being poor. 



[Page 190.1 
Ifaheiameelc 
andMnresyoQ 
wall, don't bordflD 
ber too macb. 



bit cheriah ber. 



And Sonne, if )k)u wolt haue a w\jf, 

Take bir not for coueitise. 

But w\jseli enqweere of al bir lij^ 

76 And take good bede, bi myn avice, 
])at scbe be meeke, curteis, and w\js ; 
povL} scbe be poore, take poxx noon bede;, 
And scbe wole do pee more good seruice 

80 ]»an a riccber, wbanne )k)u bast neede. 

And if ])i w\jf be meeke and good. 
And serui]) pee weel and plesauntly, 
Loke ))at ]k)u be not so woode 

84 To cbarge bir to greuously ; 
But rewle pee faire and eesili, 
And cberiscbe bir weel for bir good dede. 
For ouer-doon J>ing vnskiMully 

88 Maki]) grijf to growe wbanne it is no neda 



HOW THE WISB MAN TAUJT HIS BONNE. 

£ or it is betera wttA reste and pees, 
A melis meete of hoomeli fare, 
Jpan for to haue an hundrid mees 

92 With gnicchinge Ss wip mycbe care ; 
And ])eifore leeme weel )>is lore, 
K ]>ou wolt haue a w\jf vriiJi eese, 
For ritcliesse take hir neu&re )>e more 

96 ))ou3 sche wolde fee bo^ fe£fe & ceese. 

And pan scbsdt not pi wijf displese, 
'Neiper calle bir bi no vilouTts name ; 
And if pou do, ]>ou art not wijs, 

100 To calle bir foule it is ]>i scbame ; 
If ])ou ])in owne wijf wilt defame, 
Ko wondir )>on; ano]>ir do so. 
But softe & faire a man may tame 

104 Bo]>e berte and bynde, bucke & do. 

And y wole nei]>ir glose ne peynt, 
But y waame pee on pe opir side, 
K J>i wijf come wi}> a playnt 

108 On man or cbild at ony tide. 
Be not to basti to fi^te & cbide, 
And be not a-wreke til pon know pe so^ 
For in wrappe ]>ou myjte make a braide 

112 \>at aftirwarde scbulde rewe jou bo])e. 

■ 

And Sonne, if poM be weel at eese, 

And waime amonge ]>i nei3boriB sitte, 

Be not newfangil in no wise ' 
116 'Neiper basti for to cbaunge ne flitte. 

And if povL do, ])ou wantist witte 

And art vnstable on eueiy side, 

And also men wole speke of itt, 
120 And seie ^ ]>is foole can no where abide.'' 

4» 



51 



PeAoe and homely 
ikra are bettor 
than 100 dlahee 
with quarrele. 



Ifyou wmata 
qaiet lift, don't 
ohooee a wife for 
her money. 



Don't eroea your 
wife or oall her 



Soft and Mr wlU 
tame anything. 



Bat mind, 

don't be too ready 
to believe your 
wlfe'a complaint^ 



or yon may both 
me it. 



When yon are 

oomfbrtaUy 

eettled, 

[1 MS. wime] 

don't be in a 
harry to change^ 



or men wlU oall 
yon a fool. 



52 



HOW THB WISE MAN TAUJT HIS SONNE. 



(Tags IttO 
The mora yoa 
bvr% the meeker 
yoa ■hoald be. 
Only ftxiU bng. 



Riches Tsoiah at 
dettth. 



See bow little 
good other men's 
property does 
them when th^ 
die, sndstruifers 



mwry Uieir wives 
and take their 
money. 



Make amoids tor 
your sins. 



try to save your 

BOttl. 

[Pagein.J 



Bet not lathis 
world's wealth. 



Nothing is SO 
certain as death. 



SO ponder my 
words, 

and may Jesus 
bring OS to His 
b'Jss.' 



And Sonne, ]>e more good J^at pou hast, 
pe nfer here ])ee meeke and lowe, 
And booste not myche, it is but waast ; 

124 Bi boost jnge, men mowe foolis knowe. 

And loke fou paye weel fat fou doost owe, 
And bi o])ir richesse sette no greet price, 
For deep wole take bo))e hije and lowe, 

128 And ))an fare-weel al pai pexe is. 

And per£oTe do pavi bi my councelle, 
And take ensaumple of o])ir men, 
How litil her good doo]> hem a-yaile 

132 Whanne ))ei be doluen in her den, 
And he pat was not of hys kyn 
HaJ) his wijf, and al fat J>ere is. 
Sonne, kepe pee out of deedly synne, 

136 And asaye to gete fee paradijs, 

JBLid of f i trespas make a-meendis, 
And to poore men of fi good f on dele. 
And of f i foo-men make f i freendis, 

140 And asaye to gete fee soule heele, 
For f e world is bofe fals and freel. 
And eu^ day it doof appaire : 
Sonne, sette not bi f is worldis weele, 

144 For it farif but as a cheri faire. 

And deef is euere, as y trowe, 

pe moost certeyn f ing fat is, 

And no f ing* is so vncerteyn to knowe 
148 As is fe tyme of deef y-wis : 

perioie my sonne, f inke on f is 

Of al fat y haue seid bifom. 

And ihesu bringe us to his bhs 
152 ]>at for vs bare fe crowne of fom ! Amen. 



53 

[Frim Harleian MS, 5401, ab. 1480-1500 A.D.] 

PRUTUBS. (page 194 or foL 69 b.) 

"Recipe J>e * cromys of whyte brede, & swete apyls, & ^okkis of 

eggis, & bray pAm wele, & temp^* it with wyne, & make it to setbe ; 

& when it is tbyk, do ^er-to gode spyces, gynger & gali;/gay & canyll 

& clows, & Berve it fortbe. (See also Liber Cure Cocorum, p. 39-40.) 

FBUTURS OF FYGis. (p. 197 or foL 98.) 
"Recipe & make bature of floure, ale, peper & saferon, with oper 
spices ; ^an cast pam ' in to a frying pann with batur, & ole, & bake 
peon & serve. (See another recipe in Household Ordinances, p. 450, 
under the head " Turtelettys of Fruture.") 

IU8SELL. (p. 198 or foL 98 b.) 
Recipe brede gratyd, & eggis ; & swyng Jam to-gydere, & do 
perto sawge, & saferon, & salt ; pSLH take gode brotha, & cast it per-to, 
& bole it enforesayd, & do per-to as to charlete &c. (See also Liber 
Cure Qocorumy p. 11 ; Jussel of Flesh, Household Ordinances^ p. 
462 ; Jussel enforsed, p. 463 ; Jussel of Fysshe, p. 469.) 

MAWMENT. (p. 201 or foL 100.) 
Recipe brawne of Capons or of hennys, & dry ^am wele, & 
towse J^am smalls. ; ^an take thyk my Ik of almonds, & put ])e saide 
brawfi J>er-to, & styr it wele ouer fe fyre, & seson it wtt^. suger, & 
powder of Canelle, wzt^ mase, quibibs, & anneys in confete, <& 
serve it forthe. (See also the recipe ''For to make momene" in 
Liber Cure Cocorum, p. 26 ; for " Mawmene for xL Mees " in 
Household Ordinances^ p. 455 ; and "Mawmene to Potage," p. 430.) 

PRBTOURB. {Hart. MS. 276.) 
▼TaanAt leoiML Fretoure. Take whete Floure, Ale, Jest, Safroun, & 
LfiiL . gaitj ^ ijete alle to-gederys as pikke as fon schuldyst 
make oper bature in fleyssche tyme, & ]>an take fayre Applys, & kut 
hem in manor of Fretouiys, & wete hem in pe bature vp on dowue, 
& fiye hem in fayre Oyle, & caste hem in a dyssche, & caste Sugre 
)>er-on, & serue forth. [The recipe for " Tansye " is No. Lvi] 

1 The 1) is always j in Harl. 5401. * that is, the figs. 



54 



% giatork 



[Lambeth MS. 853, ab. 1430 iL.i>,ypage 182.] 



If yoQ oan't gat » 

doctor, 

be eareftil in your 

diet. Eatmodsr- 

ately, work 

tempenktely, 

Im meek, not 
•uziooa, 



nor grudging, bat 
cheerfUL 



8 



To be rulid bi piB diatorie do ])i diligenee, 
For it techi)) good diete & good gonemaiuce. 

(l latin il) 

XF 80 be ])at lechis doon poe faile, 
Vse good diete bi J)e couTicel of me, — 
Mesurable fedyng and temp^rat trauaile, — 
And be not maliciose for noon aduersite, 
But be meeke in trouble, glad in pouerte, 
Not pensif ne J^ou^tf ul for ony sodein chaunce, 
Not grutcbinge, hut myrie aftir ])i degrea 
If fis\jk lacke, make ])is ]>i gouemaunce, 



CPageias.] 
Keep yoar feet 
and head from 
oold. 

}Uae from meala 
with an appetite. 

Bediaite, 



not wrathftil, 
anddon'taapUte. 



(ll. LATIN I.) 

^ Kepe from colde pi feet, pi stomak, & pin beed ; 
Ete no raw mete, take good bede ])erto, 
Drinke bolsum drinke, & feede pee on li3t breed, 

12 & with an appitid from ])i mete looke pat ))ougoo. 
Lede ])i lijf in cbastite, povL scbalt finde it best so ; 
Drinke not ypon ])i sleep, hut do as y J^ee tecbe, 
And bere no wrafjje to freende ne to foo ; 

16 Yse not to soupe late, ne to drinke mycbe. 



Don't dine before 
yoa have an 
appetite. 



(ill. LATIN IV.) 

^ Digne not on pe morewe to-fore pin appitide ; 
Cleer eir & walkirtg mskip good digestioun. 



55 



^ietarium. 



[Sloane MS. 3534, ah. 1460 a.d., fol. 1.] 

(l bnqlish il) 

Yixeiis ut sanus, capud ex algore teg^tur, 
Ke comedas aliqua crada, salubre bibas 
Yinum, te pasce leui pane qua, dam petis illoB, 
4 Suige, relinque cibos ; efiugias vetulas ; 

Kon cito post sompnum bibe, letus adito graba- 

Exsnigas biUariB : cero que cena nocet. 

(IL ENGLISH I.) 

Si phisici desint^ onus ' & moderata dieta, vm opw] 

8 Eebus in oppositis non malus esto tms, 
Mitis in aduersis, in paupertate ioceris ; 
Sis modico diues ; quod satis est^ placeat, 
"Son tibi murmur erit j ut conuenit^ esto iocun 
dus: 
12 Si phisici desint^ hoc tibi fac regimen. 

(in. BNGLISH V.) 

Kon omni mox dicto credas^ nee impetuosua 

Sis, aut vlciscens materias subito ; 

Pauparibt^ Ymquam non monstres te violentem ; 
16 In verbis lepidus, edendo sis mensuratus. 

Escas si yanas mensa proponi continget, 

Non auide sumas, nee videaris edax. 

Loquendo prudens, vel linguam stude frenare ; 
20 Non verbo decipiens, quod mdius stude profene. 



56 



A DIATORIB. 



Doa't drink 
betwaen iiMals« 

■nd avoid ov«r 

MltOMftt. 



20 



Drinke not bitwene melis for no toward delite 
But if ])urst or traueile 3eue ]>ee occasioun. 
And ou^ salt mete doo]) greet oppressioon 
To feble stomakis fat wole not hem refrejne 
From ];i7igis jiatben contrarie to her complex- 



loun. 



24 pei doon to her stomakis ofte mycbe peine. 



Don't gvt inrMt- 
•d, opiate 
•appen, or ilfc ap 
nodding by oaadle 
light. 



[PigalM.] 

Rave nothing to d« 
with drunkarda, 
Ilan, laehen, and 
dioe-plajara. 



(IV. liATIN VII;) 

^ Yse no surfetis nei]>it day ne nyght, 

"NQifer ony rere soupers, which is hut excesse ; 
And be waar of nodding heedis & of candil li jt, 
28 And also of long sleep and of ydilnesse 
f The which of aUe vicis sche is porteresse. 
And Yoide alle drunkelew folk^liers, & letchouris, 
And alle hem fat vsen suche ynj^riftynesse, 
32 And also dijs pleiers and hacerdouris. 



Give no heed to 

evil talea; don't 

be too haaty, or 

violent to the 

poor, 

but gentle in talk. 



Long Bleep after 
mealaiabad. 
TiytOMjthe 
beat of everybody* 



(v. LATIN III.) 

^ To yiiel talis jeeue noo credence ; 

Be not to hasti, ne to sodeyn veniable ; 

To poore folk do J>ou no violence ; 
36 Be gentH of langage, in fedinge mesurable ; 

On sondri metis be not gredi at ])e table ; 

Long sleep afbir mete doo]) myche greuaunce. 

Blame no condicioun which is commendable ; 
40 But to seie pe beste, sette alle pi plesaunce. 



Have a fire nuMrn 
and eve. 



Riee early and aay 
your prayera. 

Vialt the poor, 
pity the needy, 



44 



(VL LATIN VI.) 

Use fier bi J>e morewe, & to bedward at eue 
A3ens blake mystis and eir of pestilence ; 
And arise ])oa eerli if ])ou be in heele, 
And first bi pe morewe do god reuerence. 
To visite fe poore do J>i diligence, 
And on pe needi haue compassioun, 



DIETARIUM. 57 

(IV.) 

Os duplex odias ; ad mensam non pariaris Hate donbie-fkoed 

Detractus ; populos iuigantes despice semper P«>pie. 

Non sustine falsos, blandos, nee adulatores ^f?P "®*«"^" 

' ' with you. 

24 Tecum ; scismaticos pro[8]pera impedientes ; ^eip ^^om who 

Bixam monentes non tecum sint pennanentes : maties. 

Live at peace 

Sed cum vicinis pace viuendo frueris. withyoor 



neighboon. 



(v. ENGLISH VII.) 

Munde vestitus tuus ut status exigit esto ; 

28 limina ne cellas, & tua pacta tene. 

Cum tribtAff hominibus litem tu suscitare nolito> 

Cum te meliore iurgia nulla move, 

Contra consortem nullam mouebis querelam, 

32 Contra subiectum pudor esset pandere luctuuL 
Consulo propterea dum vixens assequi veils 
Pacem, & tibi adquire nomen bonum. 

(VI. ENGLISH VI.) 

Ignis in aurora, & contra nebula cero, 

36 Aere pestifero, nesciat esse foris. 

Audi mane missaniy melius nam sic prosperis. 
Pnmo dum eleuas, deum laudare iuberis, 
Pauperes post visita ; interna dilecctone 

40 Si super egedos pie compaciaris, 

Dabit affluenciam domimis, & accumulabit 
Cum incremento, tua possessio stabit. 

(VII. ENGLISH IV.) 

Crapulam nullam domo cero paciaris in tua, 
44 Cenas repetentes, excessu magno edentes, 

Et capud quod innuit, candela accensa que igne. 

Pigricies mane sompnolenta ociositas que 

Mater vic/on^m omnium est janitrix dicta. 
48 Sic que ebriosi, mendaces, luxuriosi, 



58 



A DIATOBIB. 



and get 



Don't draw too 
finely, 

ftiiye with yoor 
better, 

yooreqaal^or 
your jHforioTt 



bat lire In peece 
end win a good 



48 



Men if only body 
aadionL 



Modente Ibedlng 

for the one : 

Cherity for the 

other. 

This diet ia good, 

thoo^ It's bought 

of no apothecary. 



ao, keep to it. 



BerreOod, 

eat your meala 
merrily, and live 
in rest. 

Thank God 
hig^y ; he wlU 
improve yoar con- 
dition when He 
lit 



52 



56 



60 



For good deedis causi]) mir]>e in conscience, 
And in heuene to haue greet possessioun. 

(VII. LATIN V.) 

Be not nyce in cloj^inge passing pin astate ; 
Be rewlid bi temperaunce while fan art a-lyae j 
And with .iij. maner of folk be not at debate : 
First with pi bettir be waar for to stryue, 
A^ens ])i felaw noo quarel pou contryuey 
With ])i suget to stryue, it is but schame ; 
Jjerfore y cou/icelle fee, while pou. art a-liue, 
To line in pees, and gete pee a good name. 

(VIII. LATIN X.) 

% In two ])ingis stondi]) a mannis welj^e. 
In soule & bodi, who-so wole hem sewe;, 
Mesurable fedinge kepi]) a man in hel])e, 
And ri3t so is charite to pQ soule dewe. 
Forjete not pis diete, for it is good & trewe ; 
]}ou3 it be bou^t of no potecarie 
Ne of noon oper maister ])at greet cunnynge can 

schewe, 
Jit y councelle pee, be dietid bi pia diatorie. 

(IX.) 

Serue je god deuoutly J ^^ ^^ j.^^ ^^ j^ 

And Jie world truly, V ^^^^ 

£te )e ymre mete mirilij 

Jjanke je eu«re god hyjU; ^ ^j^^^^^ ^^ ^^^ 

Jjou^ pat je line here poreli, v beste. 

He may amende it li3tly ) * 

[A different and later yersion of this Poem was printed by Mr 
Halliwell from MS. Harl. 2251, fol. 4-5, in his Sdeetum fnm the 
Minor Fowit of Dan John Lydgate for the Percy Society, 1840, 
pp. 66-69. He remarks that the "poem is very common in manu- 
script, but aeyeral of the copies vary considerably from each other. 
It may be sufficient to refer to MS. Harl. 116, fol. 116 ; MS. Oxon. 
Bernard. 1479; MS. RawL Oxon. C. 86; MS. Arund. 168; MS. 
Sloan. 775 ; and MS. Sloan. 3554, which contains a Latin yersion. 
Bitson has inserted this in his list of Lydgate's works in two places, 
under Nos. 6b and 61." HarL 5401 contains a late copy.] 



64 



68 



DIETARIUM. 69 

(VIII.) 

Post epulas sumptas sompnum longam now tibi i^on** •^•^ J«« 

SUmaS : The head, ftet» 

tad ■tomach will 

Capud, pes, stomachus firigoia non paciantur; not bear cold. 
Non contristeris corde, molestiam toUe. 
62 Vt poscunt redditus, tuam dece^ legere domum. MMoagejoat 

home aooording 

Tempore tu patere iusticiam semp^ tueie, to your income. 

T^T • !• J • • X Don't swear go a» 

14 ec lurare velis, quo qmsquam decipiatur. to deceive any. 

Du[m] iuuenis f ueris, monstia te elegantem ; ^^ joaag, 

66 Cum cedit senecti^, ut sapiens cobibe mentenu J^^Jaow* 

Won semper stabunt mundi gaudia, aed variabunt. JSbSroMpa'joya 

will <^uuige. 
(IX. ENGLISH III.) 

Kon comedas mane donee tuus appetdt vsus ; 

Digestant hene limpidus aer & corporis motus. 
60 Inter prandendum tibi potus est denegandus, 

Ni sitis aut labor tibi prestent occasioneTTt. 

Salsa nimis nocent stomacbis debilitatis, 

Dum nequeant a se contraria pelleie quoqt^^ ; 
64 Namqt^^ pena stomacbo interdum maxime crescit 

£z manu veloci, dum se reprimeie nescit 

(X. ENGLISH VIU.) 

Sic in duobtia consistit sanitas tota, — 

Corporis ac anime ; qui ea sequi velit, 
68 Conuenit saluti cibi sumpcio moderata, 

Exce8suqt£6 salus ab bomine est reuocata. 

Caritas est anime omnino debita yalde, 

Ex apotbecario sumpsio prorsus emiti^r nullo. 
72 Nec^ ab Antonio, nee ab bugone magone, [ims. Heci 

Sed cunctis ditissimum ytentibu^ est dietarium. 



GO 



[From Harl MS. 279, ab. 1430-40 a.d. A pretty MS. that 

Wight to he printed.'] 

***•■«• *y"« Haryi in oyneye. Take Harys, & Fie hem, & make 
(foL 1ft A.) ^^^ clene, au hacke hem in gobettys, & sethe hem in 
Watere & Salt a lytylle ; ))an take Pepyr, an Safroon, an Brede, 
y-grounde y-fere, & temper it Mryth Ala ))an take Oynonys & 
Percely y*mynced smal to-gedeiys, & sethe hem be hem self, & after- 
ward take & do ])er-to a porcyon of vynegre, & dresse in. (See also 
the recipe for *' Hams in Cyue " in lAher Cure Cocorumy p. 21, & 
that for " Conyngus in cyue " p. 20. Chive is a kind of small onion.) 

w^M Conyng^ in cyveye. Take Conyngys, an fle hem & aefe 
(foi.iea.) j^^jj^ ^ make lyke fou woldyst make a sewe, saue alle 
to-choppe hem, & caste Safroun & Iyer J^er-to^ & Wyne. (See also 
" Conyngus in cyue " in L. C. C7., p. 20 ; and " Conynges in Cyue " 
in Household Ordinances^ p. 434.) 

Tt. Donoettet. Take Creme agode cupfulle, & put it on a stray- 
(toL»b.) jjQm^ Janne take 3olkys of Eyroun, & put fer-to, & a lytel 
my Ike ; |)en strayne it ])row a straynoure in-to abolle ; ])en take Sugre 
[itoi. «.] y-now, & put per-to, or ellys hony for defaute' of Sugre ; fan 
coloure it vrOh Safroun ; ])an take \im cofyns, & put it in ))e ovynne 
lere, & lat hem ben hardyd ; ])an take a dyssshe y-fastenyd on {» pelys 
ende, & pore \m comade in-to ]>e dyssche, & fro ))e dyssche in-to ))e 
cofyns ; <& whan ))ey don a-ryse Wei, teke hem out, <& serue hem 
forth. 

Bocv^. Doneettet. Take Porke & hakke it smal, & Eyroun y-mellyd 
(to>- « ^') to-gederys, <& a lytel Milke, & melle hem to^erys yriMh 
Hony & Pepir, & bake hem in a cofyn, & serue forth. 

nzviy. Boncettet a-forcyd. Take Almaunde Milke & jolkys of 
Eyroun y-mellid to-gederys, Safroun, Salt, & Hony : dry j)in cofyn, 
& ley j)in Maribonys )>er-on, h Berue forth. 



The boke of Nur- 



ture, or Schoole of 



000^ mm% : 

Jf0r men, %mMi, snlr rp- 

brtiCi w&^ Slims |pur sb nten- 

sam. Ikfolg toiruttb, frt- 

xg nettssaxs for all 

brtn. 



[COMPYLED by] 

[Hugh Rhodes of the Kinges Chappell,] 

[* born and bred in Deuonshyre to/ p. 69. 1. 11.] 



^ Imprinted at Lon- 

don in Fleetestreete, beneath 

the Conduite^ at the Signe 

of S. lohn Euaungelist, 

by H. lackson. 

A. 



CONTENTS OP RHODES, 



(From the Headings of Cliapters^ Sfc.) 



PAGE 

The Duties of Parents and Masters 63-5 

The Manner of Seruing a Knight, Squyre, or Gentleman . . 66-8 

How to order your Maysters Chamber at night to bedwarde 69-70 

The Booke of Nurture and Schoole of good Manners for 

Man and for Chylde 71-81 

For the Way ting Seruaunt 82-104 

The Eule of Honest Lining 105-8 



The Principal Various Readings of Petyt's edition of Hewe 

Bodeis Boke of Nurture 109-13 

Notes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 113-14 



63 



iih^ §0^ 0f ^ttt[ter^, 



For PartmU and 



for Meriy Seruauntes^ and 

THere is fewe thinges to be ynderstand more neces- 
saiy then to teache and goueme Children in learn- ^^J^i^n- ^f 
ing and good manners, for it is ahye seruyce to God, it *'*^?'*°J"/J^** 
getteth fauour in the syghte of men, it multiplyeth 
goods, and increaseth thy good name, it also prouoketh 
to prayer by whiche Gods grace is obtayned, if thus 
they bee brought vp in vertue, good maners, and Grodly 
learning. The cause of the world being so euill of onrvvuuvingia 
lyuing as it is, is for lack of vertue, and Godly bringing JSi^Jj^^ 
yp of youth. Whych youth sheweth the disposytions ^^' 
and conditions of their Parentes or Maysters, vnder 
whome they haue bene gouemed. For youth is dis- 
posed to take such as they are accustomed in, good or 
euilL For if the behauyoure of the gouemour be euill, abu the Governor 
needes must the Chylde be euill. ** 

And thus by the Chylde yee shall perceiue the 
disposytion of the Gouemour. For of emll examples, From bad ex. 
many daungers, & abhominable sinnes follow. For the abominable aim. 
which both the Discyple and the Mayster shall suffer 
euerlasting paynes. 

It is also necessarye for Fathers and Maysters to 
cause their Chyldren and seruantes to vse fayre and chiidran mast be 
gentle speeche, with reuerence and curtesy e to their andgentie^peech. 
Elders and Betters, rebuking as well their ydle talke 
and stammering, as their vncomly iestures in going or 
staTiding. And if yee put them to schbole, see that 



64 THE BOKB OF NURTURE FOR MEN, BERUAUNTE8, AND CHTLDREN. 



SohodbBMton 
moMt fear Ood, 
andpanlih 
■harplj. 



Pmnte must 
tMeh ohildrtn 
God't lAvri. 



Look to the 
ch»nust«n of new 
eervuti. 



Reprora talo* 
toUen. 



Don't dress ehU- 
dren or serrants 
somptaoiialx. 



or let them speak 
words of TiUjuiy. 



Stop the Tloes 
they are ineUoed 
to. 



Make them read 
the Bible and 
Godly books, 

and not wanton 
stories and songs 
of tore. 



their maysters be such as feare God, and lyue vertu- 
ouslye, such as can punishe sharpely with pacience, and 
not with rygour, for it doeth oft tymes make them to 
rebell and run away, wherof chaunceth ofbe times much 
harme. Also their Parentes must oft tymes instruct 
them of god and of his lawes, ^d vertuous instructions 
of hys worde, and other good examples, and such lyke. 
And thus by litle and litle they shall come to the 
knowledge of reason, fayth, and good christen lining. 
For as S. Paule sayth vnto Timothy : He that doth not 
regard the cure and charge of them that are vnder the 
charge of his gouemance, he denieth the faith, and is 
worse then a Pagan. And take good heede of anye 
newe seruauntes that you take into your house, and 
howe yee put them in authorytye among your children, 
and take heede howe they spende that is giuen them : if 
they be tale tellers or newes caryers, reproue them 
sharpely, and if they will not leame nor amende, auoyde 
them thy house, for it is great quyetnesse to haue people 
of good behauiour in a house. Apparell not your 
chyldren or Seruauntes in sumptuous apparell, for it 
increaseth pryde and obstynacye, and many other euils, 
nor let your Chyldren go whether they will, but know 
whether they goe, in what company, and what they 
haue done, good or euilL Take hede they speake no 
wordes of villany, for it causeth much corruption to 
ingender in them, nor shew them muche familiaritye, 
and see that they vse honest sportes and games. Marke 
well what vice they are specially inclined vnto, and 
breake it betyme& Take them often with you to heare 
Grods word preached, & then enquyre of them what 
they heard, and vse them to reade in the Bible and 
other Godly Bokes, but especyally keepe them from 
reading of fayned fables, vayne fantasyes, and wanton 
stories, and songs of loue, which bring much mischiefe 
to youth. For if they leame pure and cleane doctiyne 



HUGH RHODES'S BOKE OF NURTURE. 65 

in youth, they poure out plentye of good workes in age. 

If any stryfe or debate bee among them of thy house, settle aii diaputes 

at nighte chaiytably call them togyther, and wyth '***^ ^ ' 

wordes or stiypes make them all to agree in one. Take 

heede, if thy seruaunt or Chyld murmure or grudge stop au gramb- 

agaynst thee, breake it betyme. And when thou hearest "°** 

them sweare or curse, lye & f yght, thou shalte reproue "wearing, lying, 

and fighting. 

them sharpelye. And yee that are Mends 
or Kynne shall labour how 
to make them loue and Makeyooneir 

. , ... loved a> well as 

dreade you, as well for feand. 

loue as for 
feare. 



66 



^t SPlamttr 0f Stxxk^ a J^ilt 



Foraervanu. Tj^rst yee must be dilligent to know your Maysters 
Sl?.*i:^ ^ Pl««^ and to knowe the order and custome of 

his house, for dyuers maysters are of sundry condicions 

and appetytes. 

And if thou be admitted in any offyce, as Butler or 
Takeaninyentonr Pautor, — ^in somo places they are both one, — ^take an 
charge o£ Inuitory of such thinges as ye take charge of, and see 

how it is spente : For it pleaseth a Mayster much to 
As Fanter. hare hauo a truc reckoning. Then in your ofiyce of the 
•quM^luid your Pantiye, See that your bread be chipped and squared, & 
Sffl«Si^r"~'^ note how much you spend in a daye. And see your 

napry be cleane, & sort euery thing by it selfe, the cleane 

from the foule. . Keepe euery house of offyce cleane, 
ToprtpareM and all that belongeth to it When your Mayster will 

goe to his meate, take a towell aboute year necke, then 
Dren your cap- take a cupbord cloth, a Basen, Ewer, & a Towell, to 
Lay your doth, aray your cupbord: couer your table, set on bread, salt & 
and trenchen; treuchers, the Salt before the bread, and trenchers before 

the salte. Set your napk3ms and spoones on the cup- 
a trencher, nap- bord ready, and lay euery man a trencher, a nap- 
eTerymajT^* ^Y^t & & spouc. And if you haue mo messes then 
according to the ^^^ ^^ 7^^^ maistors table, consider what degree 
rank of each. ^^xey be of, and thereafter ye may serue them : and 

then set down euery thing at that messe as before, 

If many people except youT Caruing kniues. If ther be many Gentle- 

for them after men or yomou, then set on bred, salt, trenchers & 

y are aea gpoones, after they be set, or els after the custome of the 



HUGH RHODES'S SOKE OF NURTURE. 67 

honse. And some do vse to set before euerye man a some Panten 

lofe of bread, and bis cup, and some vse tbe contrary, loafuidacnp: 

Tbus muste you baue respecte to tbe order of tbe bouse. 

And in some places it is vsed to set drink and a lofe or 

two. In some places tbe Caruer dotb vse to sbew and «>™« Oanrere sew 

^ (or amng«, 1. 088 

set down, and goetb b^ore tbe course, and bearetb no *««««) the 

dishes, but carry 

dysb, and in some place be bearetb tbe first disb, and none, others carry 

•^ ' * ^ ' the first dish. 

maketb obeysaunce to bys Maister, and settetb it downe 
couered before tbe degree of a Knigbt, or else not vsed, 
& take tbe Couers and set tbem by. Also tbe Caruer aii «rve for the 

*' gaests at their 

batb autboritye to Carue to all at bys Maisters messe, Master's mees. 

and also vnto otber tbat syt ioyning by tbem, if be list: 

see ye baue Voyders ready for to auoyd tbe Morsels JJHJ* to**reJJ^^ 

tbat tbey doe leaue on tbeir Trencbours. Tben witb ^ S^ih^? 

your Trencbour knyfe take of sucb firagmentes, and put ^ y^ *** 

tbem in your Voyder, and sette tbem downe cleane trencbei-knife. 

agayne. All your Soueraygns Trencbours or bread, 

voyde tbem once or twyse, specially wbentbey are wet, JJJJ^rtSracher 

or gyue tbem cleane, and as yee see men leaue eating of ^***° "^^ 

tbe fyrst and seconde disb, so auoyde tbem from tbe 

Table. And tben if so be ye baue any more courses ^Jww^JLTbe 

tben on or two, ye may make tbe more bast in voyding, ^** ^ "™''^' 

and euer let one disb or two stande til tbe next course, 

and tben take vp al, and set downe fresb, and cleane 

voyders witball, and let tbem not bee to full before ye 

empty tbem, and tben sette cleane agayn. And looke JiJ^c^tJ^tar**** 

wbat sauce is ordayned for any meate, voyd tbe sauce »«at 

tbereof wben yee take awaye tbe meat ; & at tbe degree 

of a knigbt ye may set downe your cup couered, and 

lifte of tbe couer and set it* on agayne, and wben be 

listetb to drinke, and taketb of tbe couer, take tbe couer 

in tby band and set it on agayne. Wben be batb 

dronken, loke tbe cup of Wyne or ale be not empty, JSTw ateMitd. 

but ofte renued. Also tbe Caruer sball break bis disb '^^^^m 

before bis Mayster, or at a syde Cupboorde, witb cleane ^'^^ 

knyues, and see tbere lacke not breade nor drinke ; and 

6* 



68 THE MANNER OF BERUING A KNIGHT, 8QUTRE, OR GENTLEMAN. 

when men haue well eaten, and doe begyn to wax 

weary of eatyng, or yf ye perceyue by the countenance 

of your Mayster when ye shall take vp the meate, & 

wh«neiewiiig . voyd the table, begin at the lowest messe, take away 

1. the lowest hmm, your spooncs, if there be any, how be it ye may auoyd 

a. brothB and them, after Broths & baked meat are past, take away 

4. voidwT y^"' voiders ' ; and your dishes of meat^ as they were set 

ThImSdown*' ^own, 80 take them vp in order. Then set downe 

fruit^hecM; cheosc of fruytes, and that ended, yoyd your cheese and 

STttdlrtiif ** ^^^ ^^ couer your Cup, Ale, or Wyne : Fyrst voyde 

[«iv<ni«f borad.i the Ale, and then the Wyne : Then set a broad* voyder 

Sweep off the ^^^ P^^ therin the small peces of Bread, and small 

SiTy^™"^ crooms, with Trenchers and napkins, and with your 

^ove t£^!md, ^^^J^^her knyfe or napkin make clean the table, then set 

^er. "*i^ /n^ away your bread whole, and also your voyder, then take 

. vp the salte, and make obeysaunce : and marke if your 

If your Master Maystcr V86 to wash at the table, or standing : if he be 

put a towel b/' »* the table, cast a clean Towell on your table cloth, 

bSoie hSmTuid ^^^ ^^ downe youT basen and Ewer before your souer- 

poor out water, aigng, and take the ewer in your hand, and gyue them 

Remoye the basin watoT. Then voyd youT Basen and Ewer, and fold the 

the tablecloth bord cloth together with your towell therin, and so take 

inside. them of the boord. And when your soueraygne shall 

wash, set your towell on the lefte hand of him, and the 

water before your soueraygne at dinner or supper; if it 

be to bedwarde, set vp your basyn and towell on the 

Foroonefiuor cupbord agayne. And if your Mayster will haue any 

notl^ AcK*****^ conceites after dinner, as appels, Nuts, or creame, then 

lay a towel on the ^7 ^orth a Towell on the boord, and set thereon a lofo 

taiiie.andaioafor ^^ ^.^^^ ^^ ^^^ y^ ^^^^^ y^^ treuchers and spones in a 

readynes if neede requyre, then serue forth your 
Mayster wel, and so take it vp againe with a voyder. 

[^ A Yoider or yesseU, to take yp the Table with, dicitur vaM- 

. culum froffmentariutn, vel analectarium. Analecta^ fi^igmentea of 

meate. Broken meates, fragmenta. Withals. Fr. Fortoire. Any 

thing that helpes to carry another thing ; aa a Voffder^ Skep, 

Scuttle, Wheelbarrow, &c. Cotgrave.] 



69 



How to order your Maysters 
Chamber at night to bed- 

warde* 



A Ray your Cupboord with a Cupboorde Cloth, wyth Put <m your cap- 
boArd, A bMin, 
your Basyn, Ewer, Candle light, and Towell; if ye jog. candle, uid 

haue helpe, set one to beare a torch or some other lighte 

before him, and an other fellowe to beare a Towell, and 

bread for your table as you shall see neede. And if ye ^^^ ^^ 

haue Banket dishes, whatsoeuer it be, as fruites put in dishes of fhiite. 

sundry Dyshes, and all other confections, and conceyts 

of Spycery, also when the Dyshes are empty, auoyde remoTethem 

them from the Table ; if your Soueraign be a Knight or ^»»"«"»P*3r- 

Squyre, set downe your Dishes couered, and your Cup 

also. And if your Soueraygne be not set at the Table, Keepftai dishes 

lette your Dishes stande couered tyll hee be set, and ^I^ u^l^°^ 

when he is set, then take theVoyders & vncouer them: 

when your mayster intewdeth to bedward, see that you ^^ ,^ ^^^ ^^^ 

haue Fyre and CandeU suffycyent. Ye must haue S:^-»i'« 

dean water at night and in the morning. If your 

Mayster lye in &esh sheets, dry of the moy stnesse at the Dry damp sheets. 

fyiQ, If hee lye in a strange place, see his sheetes be 

cleane, then folde downe his bed, and warme his night See they sreciean; 

wann the night 

Kercheife, and see his house of offyce be cleane, helpe kerchief. 

of his doathes, and drawe the Curteynes, make sure the 

fyre and Candles, auoyde the dogs,'and shutte the dores j torn oat the dogs. 

and at night or in the morning, your Mayster being 

alone, if ye haue any thing to say, it is good knowing 

his pleasure. In the morning if it be cold, make a fyre, on cold mornings 

and haue readye cleane watery bring him his petticote M^yoor' 



70 



HOW TO ORDER YOUR MAT8TEBS OHAMBER. 



master's pettkoto warme, with bis doublet, and all his apparell cleane 
brushty and his shoes made cleane, and help to araye 
him, tnisse his poyntes, stryke vp his Hosen, and see 
all thing cleanlye aboute him ; giue him good attend- 
ance, and especyally among straungers, for attendaunce 
doth please Maysteis very welL Thus doing wyth 
dillygence, God will preferre you to honour and good 
Fortune. 



•ee all clesnlj 
•boot him, and 



attend to Um 
weU. 



71 



f e» f0lliriirtt(f i\t ^aak isi "gvxbat sn)r 

^({fffole k 000^ manners for man 

an]r for C^lk 



AL ye that wysdom seeke to learn, 
and would be called wyse : 
Obedience leam you in your youth, 
4 in age auoyde you vyce. 
I ai^ full blynde in Poets Arte, 

thereof I can no skill : 
All elloquence I put apart, 
8 following myne owne wylL 
Corrupt in speeche, be sure, am I, 
my breefes from longes to know, 
And bom and bred in Deuonshyre to, 
12 as playne my tearmes doe show. 
Take the best, and leaue the worsts 

of truth I meane no yll : 
The matter is not curyous, 
16 the intent good, marke it well. 
Pardon I aake if I offend 

thus boldly now to wryte : 
To Mayster, seruaunt, yong and olde, 
20 I doe this booke commit 

Eequyring friendly youth and age, 

if any doe amis, 
For to refourme and hate abuse, 
24 and mend where neede there is. 
Set your yong people forth with spede 
good manners for to learne : 



Lesm ObedleooB 
in youth. Arold 
vloo in ago. 

(I am no poet. 



Imt follow my 
own will. 



and nae Deron- 
ahiretenns; 

•o take the good, 
and leave the ill, 
in what I say. 



I aak pardon if I 
offend in teaching 
maatenand 
•errantB.) 



Set yonng people 
to learn good 
Mannen. 



72 THE BOOKE OF NURTURE AND SCHOOLE OF GOOD MANNERS. 



Be genfcle to jonr 
■.tlden. 



Be good before 
you teftch food. 



A good Father 
nukes good 
children. 



Without Good 
Mannenuid 



Tirtttoni eondl- 
tlons yon'ra not 
worth a fly. 



Bont answer your 
Parents. 



Dread God. 



be not haoghty. 



rise early. 



at six o'clock 



Vnto your Elders gentle be, 
28 agaynst them say no harme. 

If youth doe euill, their Parentes suie 

reape this reporte full soone : 
They that should teach other folkes good, 
32 helyke themselues haue none. 

A good Father, good children makes, 

grace being them within ; 
For as they be vsed in youth, 
36 in age they will begin. 

He that good manners seemes to lack, 

no wyse man doth set by ; 
Wythout condicions vertuous, 
40 thou art not worth a flye. 
Eeuerence to thy parentes deare, 

so duety doth thee bynde : 
Such children as vertue delight, 
44 be gentle, meeke, and kynde. 
Agaynst thy Parentes multiplye 

no wordes, but be demure : 
It will redowne vnto thy prayse, 
48 and to thy friends pleasure. 
A plant without moysture sweete 
can bring forth no good flower : 
If in youth ye want vertue, 
62 in age ye shall lack honour. 

Fyrst dread you God, and flye from sin, 

earthly thinges are mortall : 
Be thou not hawty in thy lookes, 
56 for pryde will haue a fall 
Eyse you earely in the morning, 
for it hath propertyes three : 
Holynesse, health, and happy welth, 
60 as my Father taught mee. 

At syxe of the clocke, without delay, 
vse commonly to ryse. 



HUGH RHODBS 8 BOKB OF NURTURE. 



73 



And giue God thanks for thy good rest 
64 when thou openest thyn eyes. 
Pray him also to prosper thee 
and thyne affayres in deede : 
All the day after, assure thy selfe, 
68 the better shalt thou speede. 

Or from thy chamber thou doe passe, 

see thou purge thy nose cleane. 
And other fylthy thinges lyke case, 
72 thou knowest what I meane. 

Brush thou, and spunge thy cloaths to, 

that thou that day shalt weare : 
In comly sorte cast vp your Bed, 
76 lose you none of your geare. 

Make cleane your shoes, & combe your head, 

and your cloathes button or lace : 
And see at no tyme you forget 
80 to wash your hands and face. 
Put on clothing for thy degree, 

and cleanly doe it make : 
Bid your fellow a good morrow 
84 or you your way forth take. 
To fiiends, father and mother, 

looke that ye take good heede : 
For any haste them reuerence, 
88 the better shalt thou speede. 
Dread the curse of Parents thyne, 

it is a heauy thing : 
Doe thou thy duety vnto them, 
92 &om thee contempt doe flyng. 

When that thy parents come in syght, 

doe to them reuerence : 
Aske them blessing if they haue 
96 bene long out of presence. 
Cleanly appo3nit you your array, 
beware then of disdayne : 



thuikOod 



and ny your 
pnyen, 



dean your note 



and other filthy 
thlnga. 



•pniige your 
dothea. 



make up yov bed. 



dean your ahoea^ 
batten your 
dothai. 



wadi your handa 
and faoe. 



Wish yoar matea 
good morning. 



pay yoor reqiecta 
toyottrParentB, 



do them reTerenee 
when you aee. 
them. 



Hare your di 
dean. 



74 THE BOOEE OF NUBTUBB AND SCHOOLS OP GOOD MANNEBS. 



Be gentle of 
speech. 



walk demnrely, 
don't scold; 



foul ipeechlB 
hatefol. 



At Ghorch. dont 

sleep, or talk, 
oi[8taro about 

like a fool; 



but 

[ictfemaybesMrt 
ab.] 

hear God'a word, 
aak His pardon. 



and then go hrane 
todlnnw. 



Whether yon 
serve or dine, 

be well-mannered. 



If yon dine with 
your Master, 

let him begin. 



Don't preas np too 
blgh. 



100 



104 



108 



112 



116 



120 



124 



128 



132 



Be gentle then of speech ech tyde, 

good manners doe reta3nie. 
As you passe by in towne or streete, 

sadly go forth your way : 
Gase you, ne scofife, nor scold; with man 

nor chyld make ye no fray. 
Fayre speech gets grace, & loue showes well 

alwayes a gentle blood : 
Foule speech deserues a double hate, 

it prooues thou canst small good. 
When that thou comest to the Church, 

thy prayers for to say, 
See thou sleepe not^ nor yet talke not, 

deuoutly looke thou pray, 
Ne cast thyne eyes to ne fro, 

as thinges thou wouldst still see ; 
So shall wyse men iudge thee a foole, 

and wanton for to bee. 
When thou are in the Temple, see* 

thou do thy Churchly warkes ; 
Heare thou Gods word with diligence, 

craue pardon for thy factes. 
When those thinges you haue done, 

repayre you to your dinner; 
Braw home to your maysters presence, 

there doe your true indeuour. 
If it be your hap to serue, to syt, 

or eate meate at the Table, 
Encljrne to good maners, and to 

nurture your selfe inable. 
And if your soueraygne call you 

wyth him to dyne or sup, 
Giue him preheminence to begin, 

of meate and eake of Cup. 
And of this thing beware, I wish, 
prease not thy selfe to hye ; 



HUOH BHODES'S BOKB OF NURTURE. 



75 



Syt in the place appoynted thee, 
136 for that is curtesye : 

And when thou arte set^ and Table 

couered thee before, 
Pare not thy naylea, fyle not the cloth ; 
140 see thou obserae this lore. 

And if thy mayster speake to thee, 

take thy cap in thy hande; 
If thou syt at meate when hee talketh 
144 to thee, see thou stande. 

Leane not asyde when thou shalt speke, 

vpright be thou standing ; 
Hold still thy hands, moue not thy feete, 
148 beware thou of tryfling. 

Stand sadly in telling thy tale 

whensoeuer thou talkest; 
Tryfle thou with nothing, stand vpright 
152 whensoeuer thou speakest. 

Thwart not thou with thy fellow, 

nor speake wyth hye voyce : 
Poynt not thy tale with thy fynger, 
156 . Yse thou no such fond toyes. 

Haue audyence when thou speakest, 

speake with authoritye. 
Else if thou speake of wisedomes lore, 
160 little will it auayle thee. 

Pronounce thy speeche distinctly, 
see thou marke well thy worde. 
It is good hearing of a Chylde : 
164 be ware wyth whome ye borde. 
Talke not to thy soueraygne deare 
no tyme when he doth drinke ; 
When he speaketh, giue audyence, 
168 and &om him doe not shnnke. 
Before that you doe syt, see that 
yourknyues be made bright, 



sit In the place 
i^ypoliited yoQ. 

At Table. 



dont pare your 
naila. 



Whmyonr 
Master speaks to 
yon, take off your 
cap, 

and stand np. 

When speaking, 
stand upright^ 
keep yoor hands 
and feet stUl 



stand quiet, 



and don't play 
with anything. 



Don't crass your 
companions or 



point your tale 
with your finger. 



Speak with 
authority. 



Pronounce your'" 
words distinctly. 



Kind whom you 
Jest with. 

Listen when your 
master speaks. , 



Have your knlres 
bright 



76 THE BOOKS OF NUBTUBB AND 80H00LB OF QOOD MANNER& 



and your haadi 
deuu 



When ipeakliiff to 
A nun, 

don't look About 
you. 



H»v« your knife 
harp Mid claui. 



Tiryonrtoop 
before patting 
bread In It. 



If another ihatee 
your diah. don't 
crumble bread in 
it, ae yoor hands 
may be sweaty. 



OatnkeUtsor 
bread to pat In 
yonrlwoth. 



and dont sap that 
nptoohNidly. 



Dont dip yoor 
meat in the salt- 
cellar. 



Your hands cleane, your nayles parde : 
172 it is a goodlye sight. 

When thou shalt speake to any man, 

role not to fast thyne eye, 
Gase thou not to and fro as one 
176 thats Yoyde of curtesye, 

For a mans countenaunce ofte tymes, 

diseloseth still his thought : 
His lookes with his speeche, trust thou me, 
180 will iudge him good or nought. 

Looke that your knyfe he shatp & kene 

to cut your meate withall ; 
So the more cleanlyer, he sure, 
184 cut your meate you shall 

Or thou put much bread in thy pottage, 

looke thou doe it assay : 
Fill not thy spoone to full, least thou 
188 loose somewhat by the way. 
If any man eate of your dish, 
crom you therein no Bread 
Lest that your hands be found sweaty; 
1 92 thereof take ye good heede : 

They maye be corrupt, that causeth it, 

for it is no fayre vsage. 
Of bread, slyce out fa3rre morsels 
196 to put into your pottage ; 
Fill it not to full of bread, 

for it may be reprooueable 
Least that thou leaue parte, for then to 
200 measure thou arte varyable. 

And suppe not lowde of thy Pottage, 
no tyme in all thy lyfe : 
• Dip not thy meate in the Saltseller, 
204 but take it with thy knyfe. 

When thou haste eaten thy Pottage, 
doe as I shall thee wish : 



EUOH RH0DE8*S BOKE OF NUBTUB& 



77 



Wype cleane thy spone, I do thee reed, 
208 leaue it not in the dish ; 

Lay it downe before thy trenchoure, 

thereof be not afrayde ; 
And take heede who takes it vp, 
212 for feare it be conuayde. 

Cut not the best peece for thy selfe, 

leaue thou some parte behynde : 
Bee not greedye of meate and drinke ; 
216 beliberall and kynde. 

Burnish no bones with thy teeth, 

for that IB vnseemely ; 
Bend not thy meate asunder, 
220 for that swarues &om curtesy ; 
And if a straunger syt neare thee^ 

euer among now and than 
Beward thou him with some daynties : 
224 shew thy selfe a Gentleman. 
If your fellow sit from his meate 

and cannot come thereto. 
Then cutte for him such as thou haste ; 
228 he may lyke for thee doe. 

Belche thou neare to no mans face 

with a corrupt fiimosytye, 
But tume from such occasyon, friend, 
232 hate such yentositye. 

£ate you small morsels of meate, 

not to great in quantitye ; 
If ye lyke such meates, yet follow not 
236 euer your owne fantasye. 

Defylo not thy lips with eating much, 

as a Pigge eating draffe ; 
Eate softly, and drinke manerly, 
240 take heede you doe not quaffe. 

Scratche not thy head with thy fyngers 
when thou arte at thy meate ; 



wipe your fpoon 
dMta, put It down 
before yoor 
trencher. 



nnd take cue It Is 
not stolen. 



Don't be greedjr. 



Burnish no bones 
with yoor teeth, 



teer not yoor meat 
asonder* 



Help 



to dainties. 



and ftnr abeent 
Durtes cat off their 



Belch near to no 
man's fiu^ 



Eat only small 
Pfaoee, 



and not too mndi, 
Uke a pig at wash. 

Elkt and drink 
qvletly. 



Don't scratch yonr 



78 THE BOOKS OF NX7BTURE AND SOHOOLE OF GOOD ICANNEBS. 



Dont spit orer the 
table, 

or pick your teeth 
with a knife. 



Takeaitldk. 



With patrlfled; 
teeth 



touch not the fbod 
that is for others. 



Don't pick your 



Wipe yoor month 
when you drink. 



Don't blow your 
nose on the napkin 



but on your 
bandkerohlef. 



Don't craai your 
plate or mouth 



too full; 



keep from all ex- 
cess. 



Nor epytte you ouer the table boorde ; 
244 see thou doest not this fotget 
Pick not thy teeth with thy Knyfe 

nor with thy fyngers ende, 
But take a stick, or some cleane thyng, 
248 then doe you not ofifende. 
K that your teeth be putrifyed, 

me thinke it is no right 
To touch the meate other should eate ; 
252 it is no cleanly sight. 

Pick not thy handes, I thee requyre, 

nor play not with thy knyfe ; 
Keepe still thy hands and feete also ; 
256 at meate tyme vse no stryfe. 

Wype thy mouth when thou shalt drink 

Ale, Beare, or any Wyne ; 
On thy Kapkin thou must wype styll, 
260 and see all thing be cleane. 

Blow not your nose on the napkin 

where you should wype your hande ; 
But dense it in your handkercher, 
264 then passe you not your band. 

Wyth your napkyn you may oft wipe 

and make your mouth full cleene, 
Some thing that thou canst not espye, 
268 of others may be seene. 

Fill not thy trenchour, I thee rid, 

with morsels great and large ; 
Cram not thy mouth to full, no yet 
272 thy stomack ouercharge, 

But temper thou thy selfe with drinke, 

so keepe thee from blame : 
Dronkennesse hurteth thy honestye, 
276 and hyndreth thy good name. 

Keepe thou thy selfe from all excesse 
both in meate and in drinke ; 



HUGH RHODEBS BOKE OF NURTURE. 



79 



And ener vse thou tempeiaunce, 
280 whether you wake or wynke. 

Fyll not thy mouth to full, leaste thou 

perhaps of force must speake ; 
Nor blow not out thy cnmis 
284 when thou doest eate. 

Fowle not the place with spitting 

whereas thou doest syt, 
Least it abhore some that syt by : 
288 let reason rule thy wy t. 

If thou must spit, or blow thy nose, 

keepe thou it out of sight, 
Let it not lye vpon the ground, 
292 but treade thou it out right 

Wyth bones & voyd morsels fyll not 

thy trenchour, my friend, full : 
Auoyde them into a Voyder, 
296 no man will it anulL 

EoU not thy meate wythin thy mouth 

that euery man may it see, 
But eate thy meate somewhat close, 
300 for it is honestye. 

If that thy Soueraigne profer thee 
to drinke once, twyse, or thryse, 
Take it gently at his hand ; 
304 in Court it is the guyse ; 

When thou hast dronke, straighte set it downe, 

or take it his seruaunt ; 
Let not thy mayster set it downe ; 
308 then is it well, I warrant 

Blow not thy Pottage nor Drinke, 

for it is not commendable ; 
For if thou be not whole of thy body, 
312 thy breath is corruptable. 

Cast not thy bones vnder the Table, 
nor none see thou doe knack ; 



Don't fiU Tonr 
muuth too full. 



or blow out yonr 
cnunbB, 



orspitAUaboat 
yoo. 



Ifyoamost apli 
oranite. 



tread It Into the 
Sround. 



Tarn bonet, &c. off 
your plate into a 
Voider. 



Don't roll your 
food about in your 
moutlL 



IfyourSorercign 
oflTere you his cup. 



take it ttom blin. 



drink, and put it 
down. 



Don't blow on 
your Boup or drink. 



your breath may 
atlnk. 



Don't throw your 
bones under the 
table. 



80 THB BOOKB OF NURTURE AND 8CH00LE OF GOOD MANNERS. 



Don't stretch your 
anni, leftn back. 



Mora the table. 



orleenonit. 



E»t what b let 
IwforaToa. 



Don't itan about 



or wag yonr head. 



aeratch It. or imt 
your finger In your 
month. 

Dont look at what 
oomee oat of your 
noee, 

or break wind. 



When the table la 
cleared. 



pnt your trencher 
and leaTlttga In the 
Voider. 

with your napkin 
and the onunbi. 



Be i^ to pleaeo 
others. 



Stretch thee not at the Table, 
316 nor leane not forth thy back. 
Afore thy meat, nor afterward, 

with knyfe scortche not the Boorde ; 
Such toyes are not commendable, 
320 trust thou me at a woorde. 

Leane not ypon the Boord when that 

your mayster is thereat, 
For then wiU all your Elders thinke 
324 you be with him lack mate. 
Be not ashamed to eate the meate 

which is set before thee; 
Mannerly for to take it, friend, 
328 agreeth with curtesye. 

Cast not thyne eyes to ne yet &o, 

as thou werte full of toyes : 
Yse not much wagging with thy head« 
332 it scarce becommeth boyes. 

Scratch not thy head, nor put thou not 

thy fynger in thy mouth : 
Blow not thy nose, nor looke thereon ; 
336 to most men it is loath. 

Be not lowde where you be, nor at 

the Table where you syt ; 
Some men will deeme thee dronken, 
340 mad, or else to lack thy wit. 

When meate is taken quyte awaye, 

and voyders in presence, 
Put you your trenchour in the same, 
344 and all your resydence. 

Take you with your napkin and knyfe 

the croms that are fore thee ; 
In the Voyder your Napkyn leaue, 
848 for it is curtesye. 

Be gentle alway, and glad to please, 
be it night or daye ; 



I 



HUGH BHODES'S SOKE OF NURTURE. 



81 



Wyth tongue nor hand, no rygor vse, 
852 let reason rule alwaje. 

When that the meate is taken vp, 

and the Table cloath made cleane, 
Then giue good eare to heare some grace, 
356 to washe your selfe demeane. 

And whyle that grace is saying, friend, 

looke that ye make no noyse, 
And thanke you God for your good fare, 
360 him as your soueraigne prayse. 
When ye begin from boorde to lyse, 

say to your feUowes all, 
" Much good do it ye,** gently : then 
864 they curteous will ye ccdL 

Then goe you to your Soueraygne, 

giue him obeysaunce duely : 
That done, withdraw your selfe asyde ; 
368 at no tyme prooue vnruely. 
If ye see men in counsel! set, 

prease not to come to neare ; 
They will say that you are vntaughte 
372 if you to them giue eare. 

Whysper not thou with thy fellowes oft, 

giue thou no euill language ; 
Men are suspicious found, and wyll 
376 thinke it no good Tsage. 

Laugh not to much at the Table, 

nor at it make no game : 
Yoyde slaunderous and bawdy tales, 
880 vse them not for shame. 

Or thou be olde, beware, I rid, 

least thou doe get a fall : 
If ye be honest in your youth, 
384 in age ye may be lyberalL 



When the dolh U 
cleared. 



hear Grace, 
and wash. 



DurLng Grace 
make no nolae. 



but thank God. 



Rise firom table, 

lay to yov com- 
puiions, "Much 
good do It ye," 



bow to your 
Master, and 
withdraw. 



Go not too near 
men eoniolting 
together. 



Don't whisper to 
people. 



or laugh too much 
at table. 



TeU no bawdy 
stories. 

Take care lest 
you get a falL 



6 



82 



f Jfor % M^ti^ Bttnmd, 



Bore God flnt. 



DranaoeonUngto 
TOOT degree. 



Make friends with 
honest men fai 
anthorit7. 



Seek for inn 
friendship. 



Don't look too 
much at your 
clothes, 



or talk too load. 



IHnitbeBlothftd 



orenrioiis. 



TF ye will be a Semingman, 
•*• with attendaunce doe begin : 
Fyrst eerue God, then the WOTlde, 
4 and euer flye £n)in sinne. 
Apparell thee after thy degree, 

youth should be cleane by kynde : 
Pryde and disdayne goes before, 
8 and shamefastnes behynde. 

Aquaynte your selfe with honest men 

that are in authorytye ; 
Of them may you leame in youth 
12 to auoyde all necessitye. 

Still search thou must for friendship pure, 

and beware of flattery : 
With lewde persons, I thee counsell, 
16 haue no familyaryty. 

Beholde not thy selfe in thy Apparell, 

in church, ne in Streete ; 
To gase on thy selfe, men will thinke 
20 it is a thing ynmeete. 

Crye, ne yet speake, with to lowd voyce 

whereas thou doest walke, 
For lyght-witted or dronken, sure, 
24 men will name thee in talke. 
Be not thou slothfull, for it is 

the gouemour of all vyce ; 
Nor be enuyous to any, 
28 for then ye be not wyse. 



HUGH RHODESS BORE OF NURTURE. 



83 



Please thy Mends ; delight not in sloth ; 

that Vyce wasteth goods, 

It dulleth wits, ranckleth flesh, 

32 and palleth ofte fresh bloods. 

K you come to another mans hoose 

to sporte and to playe, 

K the goodman be set at meato, 

36 retume, and go your way. 

K case thou be aduaunced, friend, 

and plaste in high degree. 

Be lyberall and gentle found, 

40 beloued shalt thou bee. 

Be not to liberall nor to scant, 

Yse measure in eche thing : 

To get in one yeare, and spend it in 

44 another, is no lyuing. 

It 18 better to saue somewhat 

with good prouysion, 

Then to wish agayne for that is spent, 

48 for that doth breede deuysion. 

Measure expence, spend warily, 

and flye farre from excesse : 

Inough is a feast ; more then ynough 

52 is counted foolishnesse. 

A dilligent seruaunt taking payne 

for his mayster truth to show, 

No doubt his mayster will consyder, 

56 and agayne for him doe, 

A mayster wiU know where he is, 

and sometyme for his pleasure 

A seruaunt to suffer in anger, 

60 to his mayster is a treasure; 

A seruaunt not reformable, that 

takes to his charge no heede, 

Ofte tymes falleth to pouertye, 

64 in wealth he may not byde. 

6* 



Aroid Sloth, 



which makes flesh 
rank. 



If he whom yoa 
Tlsit 



Is at dinner, 
go away. 

If yon are 
promoted. 



beUbcral. 



but practise 
moderation in all 

things. 

Don't spend all 
your income; 



save. 



Spend warily, 
aroid excess. 
Enough is a feast 



A tmthfUI servant 
will be rewarded. 



and one who will 
put up with anger 
is a treasure. 



A careless servant 



cannot be rich. 



84 



FOB THE WATTING BEBUAUNT. 



Bcfln no quarrel; 



but If any one 
strtknyou. 



defend Toonell^ 



andi^aythe 



Don't iwear. 



To be nnfaithftd 



1b dtagraoeftiL 

Don't anawer 
your maater; 



few worda ara 
beat; 



many, bad. 



Don't be too fkve 
irith people abore 
yon. 



Be quick and 
attentive. 



Be manly at neede, begin no qaarrell 

in wrong, ne yet in right ; 
A inst quarrell defended it selfe ; 
68 in wrong doe not fygKt. 

Forbeare if thou mayst : if any will 

Btiyke, then take thou heede, 
Defend thy selfe ; the law will aquyte 
72 thee if thou stand in neede ; 

A man of his handes with hastynesse 

should at no tyme be fylde : 
Auoyde murther, saue thy selfe, 
76 play the man, being compelde. 
Be seruiceable and cleanly, 

and neuer sweare thou oath : 
Be wyse, ready, and well aduysed, 
80 for tyme tryeth thy troth : 

Kcase thou be not faythfull found, 

and in all thinges trusty, 
Thou doest thy mayster no worship 
84 nor thy selfe honesty. 

Be not checkmate with thy mayster ; 

for one word giue not fower ; 
Such a seruaunt contynueth to long 
88 if he passe but one hower. 
Few wordes in a seruaunt wyse 

deserueth commendation ; 
Such Seruauntee as be of to muche speeche 
92 are yll of operation. 

Be not to bold with men that be 

aboue thee in degree, 
In age, byrth, or substance ; leame thou 
96 to handfast honesty. 

Take payne in youth, be quick, 

attendaunt be, and wyse : 
Be dilligent for to detecte 
100 a seruaunt gyuen to vyce. 



HUQH RHODBS'S SOKE OF NURTURE. 



85 



Put thou thy xoayster to no pajne 
by firaude nor fayned subtiltie ; 
Wyse men will say little, and suffer 
104 to see thy iniquitie. 

A man that sayth little shall perceiue 

by the speeche of another : 
Be thou stil and see, the more shalt thou 
108 perceyue in another ; 

(rouerne thou well thy tongue, and let 

thy wordes not mayster thee. 
If ye follow wyll, ye are lyke 
112 ne to thryue, beleeue mee : 
Obstinacy is foUye in 

them that should haue reason : 
They that will not knowe howe to 
116 amend, their wits be very geason. 
In displeasure forbeare thy fellow, 

lay all mallice apart, 
Kor meddle not with such as you 
120 know to be ouerthwart 
A hasty or wilfiill Mayster 

that offce chaungeth seruaunt, 
And a seruaunt of fleeting, 
124 lack wit and wysdome, I warrant. 
Chaunge not ofte thy seruyce, 

for it sheweth a seruaunte to light ; 
He careth for no man, nor none for him, 
128 in wrong nor in right. 

A plyaunt seruaunt gets fauour 

to his great aduaimtage ; 
Promoted shall he be in offyce or fee, 
132 easiler to lyue in age. 

Yofi honest pastyme, talke or aiyng, 

or some Instrument vse : 
Though they be thy betters, 
136 to heare they will thee not refuse. 



Don't deoeire 
your master. 



Be qniet, and 
learn hj othen' 
talk. 

Oontrolycmr 
tongue. 



8elf-wlU won't 
thrive. 

Olwtlnacy Is folly. 



When out of 
temper, keep 
dear of oom- 
panions. 



Kaster and 
serrant changiing 
often. 



lack wit, 



and no one cares 
for them. 

A pliant serrant 



gets promotion. 



Amuse yourself 
by singing or 
playing. 



86 



FOR THE WATTING SEBUAUNT. 



Speak only when 
yoaVe ipoken ta 

AfliocUte with 
those who can 
advance jon. 

Look out for a 
well-to-do wife. 



Gentle qnaliUea 
often 



seciirefirood 
nuurlages. 



A gentle wife is 
a treasure; 



an angiT one. 
man's greatest 
trouble. 



Foolish women 
arc like a feather 
in the air. 



Fulgentius likens 



[I orig. aparte] 

a good man to 
Christ: 

to rule himself. 
And to obey man 



To piate in thy maysters presence, 

it is no humanity e; 
Bat to speake :when he talketh to thee 
140 is good curtosye. 

For your preferment resorte 

to such as may you vanntage : 
Among Gentlemen, for their rewards ; 
144 to honest dames for maiyage. 
See your eye be indifferent 

among women that be fayre, 
And if they be honest, to them 
148 boldly then doe repayre ; 
Honest quaUityes and gentle, 
many men doth aduaunce 
To good maryages, trust me, 
152 and their names doth inhaunce. 
Of worldly pleasure it is 

a treasure, to say truth. 
To wed a gentle wyfe ; of his 
156 baigayne he needes no ruth. 
What is most trouble to man 

of all thinges that be lyuing 1 
A curst wyfe shortneth his lyfe, 
160 and bringeth on his ending. 

Women nyse, and not wyse, waketh 

men when they should take sleepe : 
Lyke a feather in the weather, 
164 of such I take no keepe. 

Fulgentius declareth, vpon the 

maryage in Cana Galile, 
The condicions of men and women : 
168 a parte ' I will shew ye. 

He lykeneth Christ to a good man, 

the Authour of verity. 
To rule himselfe : and in all thinges 
1 72 to obey to man truely 



/ 



HUGH BHODBS S BOKE OF NURTURE. 



87 



He lykeneth a good woman to 
the myrrour of humillitye ; 
In them is loted pacience, sound fayth, 
176 loue and charitye : 

Fayth and trust in good women both, 

in eche deede, and in woorde ; 
Louing Gody obeying their husbands, 
180 cleane at bed and at boorde. 
Lykened women to ydols, taken 

for Gods, yet were Deuils : 
ludge so of women which be corrupte 
184 with such euils. 

Women to blame, or yet defame, 

I will disprayse none: 
Say as ye list, women are yll 
188 to trust, all thinges but one. 

Fayre and good are two quallityes, 

scantly in one body seene : 
Fayrenesse is soone seene, her pacience 
192 and goodnesse is yll to deeme. 
For to saue that a man would haue, 

is at large without a keeper : 
Who can stay that will away, 
196 or without restraynt let her ? 
To wed a woman that is 

good, fayre, and eke wyse, 
Is to haue ynough for himselfe, sure, 
200 and for her as much thryse. 

The company of women being yong, 

wanton, foolish, and light. 
Makes the body and head feeble, 
204 and doth cleane wast the sight 

Such be yll to please, their harte and 

eye is vnsatiable ; 
An old man, and a yong woman, 
208 to content is vncurable. 



he likens a good 
woman to the 
Mirror of 
HumiUtj. 

fullofloTa, 

trustworthy In 
deed and word. 



dean at hed and 
board. 



Tet Bome are 
ngalMT devils. 



I dispraise no 
women, 

bat they are ill 
to trust 



Fair and good are 
seldom seen 
together. 



Who can stop a 
woman who will 
go wrong? 
A woman good, 
Ikir, and wise, is 
aprixe. 



Company with 
wanton women 



weakens men's 
body, head, and 
sight. 



A young woman 
is never content 
with an old man. 



88 



FOR THE WATTING 8ERUAUNT. 



Excited women 
don't heed reaaon. 



To aToid lechery. 



look not at fS&lr 
women. 



Don't be fiunlllar 
with wanton 
women. 



This is enongh 
about women. 



[lortg.I] 

Take warning by 
othen' fully. 



Follow the st«pe 
of an honest man. 



Better be poor 
and mirthful, than 
rich and aoirow- 
fta. 



Avoid bad diet 



212 



216 



220 



224 



228 



232 



236 



240 



and bad company. 244 



When womens wits are mooned, 

of reason they take no heede : 
To please them agayne, muste bee by 

lone, dread, or else fond meede. 
Pryde, couetonsnes, and letchery, 

if thou wilt horn them flee, 
From gay Apparell, treasure, and 

fayre women, draw thy eye. 
Be not to bold in worde and deede, 

for it is little honesty. 
In Chamber with wanton women, 

Yse no familiarity. 
To them tell thou nought that wil not 

beleeue thee at thy worde : 
It appeoreth by them, their good 

wyll they may lyttle aforde. 
Of women ye haue herd part, wherby 

ye may perceyue my mynde : 
For few wordes to wyse men is best, 

and thus I make an ende. 
I hold thee wyse and well taught, 

& * thou arte lyke to be ioUye, 
That can beware to see the care 

of another mans follye. 
Take the myrrour of an honest man, 

and marke how weU he doth : 
Follow his steps, imbrace vertue, 

then doest thou well forsooth. 
It is better to be poore and 

to lyue in rest and myrth. 
Then to be riche with sorrow, 

and come of noble byrth. 
If thou wilt haue health of body, 

euill dyet eschew : 
To get a good name, 

euill company doe not pursue. 



HUGH RHODBS'a BOKE OF NURTURE. 



89 



Euill ayres corrupt mans body, 
ill company doth the same : 
Vse good company, thereof 
248 commeth honesty and good fame. 
All byrdes doe loue by kynde, that are 

lyke of plume and feather, 
Good and bad, ye* wyld and tame, 
252 all kyndes doe draw togyther. 
Great diuersytie between pryde, 

and honesty is seene : 
Among the wyse it is soone iudgde, 
256 and knowne what they haue beene. 
By condicion and fashion 

all thing sheweth as it is, 
lagged or ragged, prowde or meeke, 
260 wyse men call it excesse. 

Many haue cunning and vertue, 

without due gouemaunce : 
Wo worth reason yll vsed, 
264 for it lacketh remembraunce. 
Better to speake little for profyt, 

then much for thy payne : 
It is pleasure to spend and speake, 
268 but harde to call agayne. 
Yse thou not hastye anger, 

a wyse man will take leasure, 
The custome of sodayne mallyce 
272 will tume to displeasure. 

Fyrst thinke, then speake, and then 

do all thinges with discretion : 
Giue with good will, and auoyde thy 
276 ennemye with prouisyon, 

Euill men take great payn to buy Holl- 
and all for worldly pleasure — 
Dearer then good men buy heauen, 
280 for God is their treasure. 



Seek good com- 
panions: 



like draws to 
Uke. 

£i-=the] 



The difference 
between pride 
and proprietj 
soon shows. 



Everything is 
known bj its 
make. 



Woe to reason 
Uloscd. 



Speak Uttla 



Be not quickly 
angry. 



First thfaik, then 
speak. 



Bad men buy hell 



dearer than good 
ones do heaven. 



90 



FOR TH£ WAYTINO SERUAUNT. 



LMurn, orbe 

ignorant. 

The proved man's 

gloss teachea 

more than the 

text. 



BegladoffUr 
reprooth. 



Thank him who 
glTes 70a food 



or does 70a good. 



Don't Idle yoor 
time away, 



but learn In your 
youth. 



and take pains. 



Bo moderate If 
you are rich. 



Learn or ye be lewde, 

follow the proued mans adujse, 
Thou shall perceyue more by his glose 
284 then by the letter is. 

Be thou content with fayre rebuke, 

and haue thy fault in mynde : 
The wyser that thou doest, of troth 
288 the better shalt thou fynde. 
If thou bee wyse, consyder 

thy friende both in worde and deede : 
And thank him that geueth thee cloth, 
292 drinke, meat, and also breade ; 

Tume not thy face lyke to a Churle, 

as Yoyde of all meekenesse : 
To the^n that do thee good, geue thanks, 
296 and shew lyke gentlenesse. 

Many couet much, and little payncs 

therefore intende to take : 
If case thou wilte a Mayster please, 
300 from sloth thou must awake. 

Of one thing take good heed, spend not 

thy tyme, I wish, in vayne ; 
For tyme mispent and ouergone 
304 cannot be calde agayne. 

Seeke thou in youth, and thou shalte fynd, 

to be one not vntaught : 
Wyse or f onde, foolish to rule, 
308 or to be set at nought 

Take payne in youth, if case thou wilt 

of men be called wyse, 
Or thou must take it in thy age, 
312 or be fraught full of vyce. 

Keepe measure euer in happye welth, 

a tyme to thee is lent : 
Better is it to saue, then to 
316 suffer when all is spent. 



HUGH RHODES S B0KE OF NURTUBE. 



91 



To remember before, what wyll fall, 

it shall giue thy harte ease ; 
Fortune doeth ebbe and flowe, be sure ; 
320 good forwit doth men please. 

• Lyue iustlye, doe well, and haue well, 
let men say what they list : 
Be euer secrete to thy selfe, 
324 beware of had I wist. 

A Byrd is better in thy hande, 
then in Wood two or three ; 
Leaue not certayne for vncertayne, 
328 my friend, I counsell thee. 

Take heede betyme, if thou be wyse, 

for tyme hath no measure : 
Prayse goodnesse still, blame euiU men, 
332 loue is a lasting treasure. 
Better is truth with pouertye, 

then ryches are with shame : 
Couetousnesse quayleth gentlenesse, 
336 letehery bringeth ill name. 
Sufferaunce asswageth yre, 

and mendeth thinges amis : 
In little medling rest is wonne ; 
340 hate stryfe if thou seeke bHsse. 
Be not hasty in a matter, 

but marke thou well the ende ; 
Be thou not Foe vnto thy selfe, 
344 though another thee offende. 
Presume thou not to hye, I rid, 
least it tume thee to blame : 
In trust is treason ; be ruled 
348 by reason ; flye thou shame. 
No maystry is it to get a friend, 

but for to keepe him long : 
As to thyne owne selfe, so doe to 
352 thy friendes eche one among. 



Prndenoe wlU 
secure you eaae. 



Do right, whatr 
ever men may 
■ay. 



A bird in the 
hand b better 
than two In the 
wood. 



Take heed 
betimes. 



Truth and poverty 
are better than 
riches and ahame. 



To suffer calms Ire. 



Be not bastj. 



Presume not 



Do to your friends 
astoyourselC 



92 



FOB THB WATTING BERUAUNT. 



When tnistod, be 
tni0. 



Sqnabble not 
with your 
nelffbboar. 



Fools qoMTel: 



wite men live in 
peace, but tngrj 
folk do not. 



Be gentle to a 
willing tervant. 



Don't be rerenge- 
fUl. 



Don't ebide too 
often. 



Forbear wbere 
yon can conquer, 



A good man does 
good. 



My friend, where tiiou art put in trust, 

be true in word and deede : 
In a little fabhood is great shame ; 
356 in truth is there much meede. 

Brable not thou with thy neyghbour, 

but let him lyue in rest ; 
For discorde often tymes constraynes 
360 thy friendes thee to detest. 

Among fooles there is much stryfe, 

disdayne, grudge, and debate : 
With wyse men there is rest & peace, 
364 after a blessed rate : 

E^nowne there is no quyetnesse 

where angry folkes doe dwell : 
Ten is nyne to many, be sure, 
368 where men be fierce and fell 
Shew gentlenesse to thy seruaunt 

thats willing to amende, 
Wysedome willeth thee to forbeare 
372 though he doe thee offende. 
In mallyce be not vengeable, 

as S. Mathewe doth speake, 
Due correction is needefull, sure, 
376 for blessed are the meeke. 

Chyde not very often, for therein 

gentlenesse is none : 
Prooue and then chuse : of two harmes leame 
380 alwayes to make but one. 

To forbeare where thou mayste ouercome, 

is gently still to doe ; 
For so shalte thou cease mallyce, 
384 and make a friend of thy foe. 

A good man doth good, and therein 

doth alwayes take great payne : 
If his deedes be contrary found, 
388 all that he doeth is yayne. 



HUQH RHODES'S SOKE OF NURTURE. 



93 



Correct not faults in other, 

and thy selfe do vse the same, 
For so shalt thou be laught to scome 
392 and be reprooued with shame. 

Fynd thoa no £Eiult in discreete men, 

of good perseueraunce ; 
But fyrst see thou correct thy selfe 
396 of wilfull ignoraunce. 

Controle not so your fellowes faultes 

as ye of cryme were cleare, 
But monish him secretlye, and keepe 
400 thy mayster from aU yre. 

Beleeue and comforte other when 

thou ioyste prosperitye, 
And thou of other shalt haue helpe 
404 in thy aduersytye. 

If thou be come of noble stocke 

and gentle curteous plant, 
Thy condicions and behauyour 
408 will show thee, I warrant. 
Subdue the euill mynded men, 

that order will not byde : 
Beware of common grudge and hate 
412 at euery tyme and tyde ; 

N'e yet conceaue thou in thy mynde 

that thou canst all thinges doe, 
Least in trying somthing thou 
416 canst notattayne thereto. 

A hye mynded man thinketh no wight 

worthy to match with him, 
But when he is to highest power, 
420 yet he is not worth a pin. 

Those vndemeath thy gouemaunce, 

doe charitably blame, 
And vse thou gentle speech eche hower, 
424 so shalt thou get good name. 



nont oonrect in 
others the faults 
yoa commit 
yonnelf. 



but oonrect them 
In yoonelf. 



and admonish 
others secretly. 

Help, and yon 



shall be helped. 



If yon are well 
bred. 



yoar behaTlour 
will show it 



Avoid grudging. 



Don't think yon 
can do CTerythlng. 



The conceited 
man 



isn't worth a pin. 



Always q»eak 
gently. 



94 



FOB THE WATTING 8BRUAUNT. 



Bebokemen 
whon alone with 
them. 



Dont excite 
angry men. 



I>on't disdain 
yourfellowv. 



Forbear in anger. 



It Is so easy to be 
quiet and 
reasonable ! 



Better be ruled 
than role. 



Love Tlrtae. 



Be saving. 



Talk breeds lies. 



A fool Kill never 
be taught 



A wyse man will rebuke his fault 

when he is all alone, 
And spye it out from tyme to tyde 
428 when he hath euill done. 
Moue no man that is angry 
and will be so to often : 
A smalle sparke kyndles a great fyre 
432 if it be forste to bume. 
To thy fellow be not coyish, 
nor haue of him disdayne ; 
If vnkyndnesse doe happen, 
436 quickly be friendes agayne. 
To forbeare in anger is 

the poynt of a friendly leeche ; 
When the rage is past, men repent 
440 their euill corrupt speeche. 

A wonderfull thing this is to doe, 

and easy to be done : 
To leaue pleasure, and keepe sylence, 
444 and to follow reason. 
For farre more better is it 

to rule then to be ruled ; 
Disdayne not therefore gouemaunce 
448 least your name be defyled. 

Loue thou vertue, and hate all vyce ; 

see that thou no tyme waste ; 
Spend in measure as thou doest get ; 
452 make spare of that thou haste. 
Babble not ouer much, my friende, 

if thou wylt be called wyse ; 
To speake or prate, or vse much talke, 
456 ingenders many lyes. 

A foole will be alwayes teaching, 

but will no tyme be taught : 
Contrary him in his sayinges, 
460 he setteth thee at nought. 



HUGH RHODESS SOKE OF NURTURE. 



95 



All men be knowen by the workes 

they vse to go about : 
A stedfiBust mans words ye neuer needs 
464 for to suspect, nor doubt. 

If ye haue sturdy Sampsons strength 

and want reason withall. 
It helpeth you nothing, this is playne, 
468 selfe will makes you to falL 

Many haue knowledge, and yet lacke 

that should belong thereto : 
And some are in authoritye 
472 that very little good doe. 
All pollicie no one man hath, 

though he be of hygh science ; 
One hath great learning, another hath 
476 got in tyme experience. 

Cunning with pryde in an officer fell 

is sure a heauy case : 
The pore man prowd, the riche a theefe, 
480 both of these doe lack grace. 

There is a tyme for all things founde, 

to be merry and glad : 
He that hath cunning without grace, 
484 of troth is but ill clad. 

Put not yong men in authority 
that are to prowde and lyght : 
A man tryed well in youth, 
488 his experience is of might. 

Many take much pryde in their owne skill, 

and carpe as they were cimning ; 
But in the ende his peeuish pryde 
492 makes aU not worth a pudding. 
A fooles displeasure' to a wyse man, 

is found profytable ; 
For his good will is vnstedfast, 
496 his lust is vnsatiable. 



A man is known 
bjhtiiroriL 



Stren^ without 
reason is no good. 



Some in Mithority 
do Ttrj little 
ROod. 

No one can 
manage eveij- 
thing. 



Oonnittg, pride, 
and cnielty are 
badinoffloen. 



There's a time for 
all things. 



Pnt not yonng 
men in authority. 



Peerish pride 
ruins eTorything. 



96 



FOR THE WAYTING SERUAUNT. 



Dont Answer 
proud nastj 



bMthlm. 



Stedfttftnow li 
proflteble. 



If yon play with 
an infoior, 

pborgvntlr. 



n MS. Vtwan] 



BoMtnot of 
bawdlneas. 



but be cleanly In 
speech as well as 
dreas. 



Honesty is worth 
more than velvet 
hoods. 

Rererenoe yoar 

elders. 



Eeply not thou agaynst a prowde, 

and yll mans tale to much, 
For he thinkes of hymselfe^ bee sure, 
500 no man hath wysedome such ; 

Better is it to beate a prowde man ' 

then for to rebuke him, 
For he thinkes in his owne conceyte 
504 he is wyse and very trim. 
Stedfastnesse in a man 

aduaunceth his good name, 
But to be slow in godly deedes 
508 increaseth a mans shame. 
If thou play, game, or sporte, 

with thy inferyour by byrth, 
Yse gentle pastyme, men will then 
512 commend you in your myrth. 
' Beware of subtle craft and guyle, 

therewith be not infect ; 
If euill be done where thou arte, 
516 men will thee soone suspect. 

Boast not of bawdinesse, for therein 

shalt thou, sure, be knowne 
To be found letcherous, and thy 
520 yll name will be soone blowne. 
A man cleanly aiayed, oughte cleane 

and pure wordes to preache : 
As thou wouldest be cleane in arraye, 
524 so be cleane in thy speeche. 
Be not to bolde in your array, 
nor yet boast of your goods : 
More worth is honesty, be sure, 
528 then gawdy veluet hoodes. 

To giue reuerence to thy Elders, 

be thou still glad and fayne, 
Or else they will haue, leame thou this, 
532 of thee no small disdayne. 



HUQH BHODES'S SOKE OF NURTURE. 



97 



Reporte no slaunder, ne yet shew 

the fruites of flattery ; 
It shewes that mallyce raygns in thee 
536 as voyde of cnrtesye. 

Meddle little, and thou shalt fynde 

therein a double ease : 
But in redressing things amis, 
540 thou highly Grod shalt please. 

Aduise well what thou speakest, friend, 

to whome, where, how, and whan ; 
So shalt thou get thee perfyte loue, 
544 and proue a wittye man : 

Thinke or thou speake ; for feare of yre 

take good heede at the least ; 
By thy speeche men will perceyue 
548 thee to be man or beast. 

Prease not thy selfe, if thou bo wyse, 

to haue the soueraygntye : 
Good deeds and wisdom shal thee get 
552 in tyme authoritye. 

At thyne owne conceite laugh not^ 

nor make thou any game : 
Auoyde thou slaunderous baudy tales ; 
556 for why, they purchase shame. 
Laugh not to much, I thee aduyse, 

therein take thou no pleasure ; 
Much laughing, friend, some men doe say, 
560 a cockscombe doth procure. 
To sad, it is not best, 

the meane is aduauntage : 

Myrth for pollicy sometyme 

564 is wysedome and no rage. 

Or ye begin, marke well the ende, 

and thereof take good heede ; 
A good forethought is founde a friend 
568 at euery tyme of neede. 



Don't repeat 
slanders, or 



meddle In others' 
afteln. 



but set wrong 
things right. 



Hind whom jou 
speak to. 



and think before 
you speak. 



Don't strive too 
much for power. 



or laugh at your 
own jokes. 



Avoid bawdy 
tales. 



Much laughing 
procures a cock's 
comb. (See p. 10&) 



Keep to the 
middle. 



Forethought is 
ever a friend. 



98 



FOR THE WAYTING SERUAUNT. 



Don't amwer 
hastUy. 



<3et before 70a 
spend. 



A bM In the 
b«ndis wortli 
ten in the air. 



Don't slander any 
one behind his 
back. 



Belhdnfrom 
wrath. 



Honest men speak 
honest words. 



When oat, leare 
when the score la 
paid. 



Pay yoor debts 
panctually. 



and keep yonr 
promises. 



Be not hasty, aunswere to giue 

before thou it debate, 
Lest thou repent thee afbenvardes 
572 when it will be to late. 

Get ere thou spend, then shalt thou bid 

thy friendly friend good morrowe ; 
But if thou spent before thou get, 
576 thou shall feele much sorrowe : 
A byrd in hand, as some men say, 

is worth ten flye at laige : 
He that may be free and will not^ 
580 take vpon him no charge. 

Disprayse not any man in absence, 

nor yet be vengeable : 
For small faultes, small correction 
584 is moste commendable. 

Bofraine from wrath, and correct thou 

with meekenesse at leysure : 
To vtter mallice sometyme, friende, 
688 bringeth thee displeasure; 

Know honest men haue honest wordes 

early and also late : 
Before thy equals and thy betters, 
592 playe thou not, friend, check mate. 
At thy friendes house, or else where, 

see that by night or day 
When the reckoning is past, and payde, 
596 then boldly go thy way. 

When thou borrowest, keepe thy day 

though it be to thy payne ; 
Then shalt thou the sooner borrow 
600 of thy lender agayne. 

Loke thou keepe promyse and thy day, 

thereon haue thou thy thought. 
Or else of thee and thyne, know well 
604 it may be dearer bought. 



HUGH RHODES 8 BOKE OF NURTURE. 



99 



Some men to borrow euer loue, 

and neuer pay agayne : 
Euer needy still some be found, 
608 putting tbeir friendes to payne. 
Alway to begge and borrow still, 

cannot long tyme indure : 
Such men do fayle, when they thinke 
612 themselues to be most sure ; 
"No heauynesse its to a man 
that nothing hath to lose ; 
Great greefe to them that plenty hath, 
616 so sa}i;h the common glose. 

If that thou spent past thy degree, 

thy stock thou soone shalt slake : 
Take heede betyme, so you may slecpe 
620 when other men doe wake. 
Past thy degree, couet thou not 

thy post for to mayntayne : 
Sjmnd not thy goods to prodigallye, 
624 spend not thy store in vayne. 
Looke before thou leape, I wish ; 

more ease thou mayst take : 
K that thou leape or thou doe looke, 
628 wysedome will thee forsake. 

Good counsayle in thy words to take, 

shall thee content and please : 
Be comfortable to thy friends, 
632 and to thy selfe wish ease. 

Be not mooued if case thy friend 

tell thee thy faultes full playne : 
Requyte him not with mallyce great, 
636 nor his good will disdayne. 

A mans wysdome is prooued playne 

when he is ill sayd vnto : 
To suffer wrong is vertue pure, 

640 fond fooles cannot doe so. 

7* 



Some men borrow 
and never pay. 



but that most 
end in failure. 



which \b no 
trouble to a man 
who has nothing. 



Don't spend more 
than jour income. 



or too prodigally. 



Look before you 
leap. 



Take good coimsel 
in your speech. 



Don't be angry 
with the friend 
who tolls you 
your faults. 



Wise men can 
suffer wrong ; 



fools can't. 



100 



FOR THE WATTING SERUAUNT. 



Make hay whUe 
the Sim shines. 



Wslt for your 
mMter if yoa 
want to see him. 



BofTOwen seek 



their own fed' 
TsuUge, not 
yours. 



Give to the Poor. 



Speak the truth 
boldly and gently. 



Kocknoman. 



Don't abuse your 
enemy. 



Qnletnefls is a 
good defence. 



An unstable 
Gentleman is 
folly's child. 



When occasyon comes, thy profyt take, 

tyme lasteth not for euer : 
Tyme flits away, thy welth augments 
644 as pleaseth God the giuer. 

If with thy mayster thou wilt speake, 

his leysure leame to see : 
It were contrary equitye 
648 that he should wayght for thee. 
Some men are euer borrowing found, 

wythout respect of tyme : 
They gape for their commoditye, 
662 the[y] sieldome wish for thyne. 
Vse thou gentle condicions, friend ; 

giue the pore of thy good ; 
Part thou therof toward their want, 
656 giue them reliefe and fo[o]d. 

To speake the truth be bold and mylde, 

for that is very good ; 
For fayned speech, and falshood vylde, 
660 becommeth vyUaines blood. 

Mocke thou no man, of what estate 

or calling that he be ; 
Eor that is the custome of Churles 
664 voyde of all curtisye. 

To ill thy foe, doth get to thee 

hatred and double blame ; 
It is a Christyan propertye, 
668 to hyde thy brothers shame. 
A still man is a Castle which 
will him defend from woe : 
A busy tongue makes of his friend 
672 oft tymes his daynfull Foe. 
A Gentleman vnstable found, 
is deemde a chylde of folly : 
A shamelesse lyfe in any man, 
676 declares he is not holly. 



HUGH RHODES H BOKE OF NURTURE. 



101 



A Gentleman should mercy vse 

to set forth his natiuitye : 
He should be meeke and curteous, 
680 and full of humanitye. 
Pore men must be faythfull, 

and obedient in lyuing, 
Auoyding all rebellyon 
684 and lygorous bloodshedding. 

Keepe grace and godly gouemaunce 

alwayes within thy mynde : 
If thou be wanton in youth, 
688 vyce will raygn in age by kynde. 
Boast thou not of thy blood ne byrth, 

or great soueraignty : 
For thy good deedes, assure thy selfe, 
692 shall get thee fame and glory. 

To one vnknowne to thee, my friende, 

at no tyme shew thy mynde ; 
For some men be tickle of tongue, 
696 and play the blabs by kynde. 
To men not acquaynted, giue 
no credence nor no trust ; 
Some sortes will customably lye, 
700 but from such flye thou must. 

To Ytter greefe, doth ease the mynde, 

as wyse men seeme to say ; 
But faythfull friendes at no tyme will 
704 their friendes great greefe bewraye. 
If other men record thy saying, 
it may seeme somewhat true : 
Ytteraunce of counsayle maketh, 
708 some states to wayle and rew; 

Keepe counsayle if to Piynce ne Land 

they bring no greefe nor payne ; 
To catche * ech trustlesse traytor, see 
712 thou faythfull doe remayne. 



A Oentleman is 
bound, by his 
birth, to be 
ooortoous. 



Poor men mnit 
be obedient 



Uae Belf-re0tndni 



Don't bout of 
your high birth. 



Don't tell secrets 
to strangers. 



or trust thflfle 
you don't know. 



Telling one's 
troubles eases th» 
mind, but 

faithftil friends 
will conceal their 
Mends' grief. 



Keep yonr own 
oonnsel. 



[I Orig. Co tacfae} 



102 



FOR THE WATTIXa SERUAUNT. 



Fly from fl&ttenr. 

t haye hardly 
found one man 
true. 

ProTeyour 
friends. 



and don't change 
a true one for a 
new one. , 



Reftue not a 
friflnd'a rebuke. 



Greet your Mend 
gladly. 



Estimate gifts by 
the donors' 
weiUth, 



and give some- 
what back again : 

Empty flats retain 
no Hawks. 



Be courteous to 

strangers, 



and entertain 
them liberally. 



Be friendly with the faythfull man, 

but yet flye from flatterye : 
In all my lyfe I could scant fynde 
716 one wight true and trusty. 

Fyrst seke a friend, then proue thou him 

that thou wilt trust vnto ; 
So shalt thou know in tyme of neede 
720 what he for thee will do. 

If case thou haue a trusty friend, 

chaunge him not for a new : 
They that trust vnto themselues, 
724 be no friendes faythfull trua 

Heare thou thy enimyes tale, I wishe, 

euen to the latter end ; 
And refuse not the sweete rebuke, 
728 of him that is your friend. 

If thy friend come vnto thy house 

for loue or pure amitie, 
Exyle sadnesse, and show to him, 
732 friendly famiHaritye. 

If giftts thou receyue of any wyght, 

well ponder their degree : 
A kynde pore mans harty rewarde 
736 is worth the other three. 

Of whomsoeuer thou receyuest, 

giue somewhat, friend, agayne, 
For empty fystes, men vse to say, 
740 cannot the Hawke retayne. 

If that a straunger syt thee nearo, 
see thou make him good cheare. 
For so he may roporte thy name, 
744 be sure, both farre and neare. 
Eetayne a straunger after his 

estate and degree ; 
Another tyme may happen he 
748 may doc as much for thee. 



HUGH BHODES'S BOKE OF NURTURE. 



103 



Of secrete and close matters speake 

not, if thou wilt be sage : 
Talke discretelye, let not thy tongue 
752 go clack in an outrage. 
Honest men be euer content 

with such as they doe fynde ; 
Take all thinges therfore in good part, 
756 vse thou a quyet mynde. 

Commaund not in another house, 

nor practyse to contende. 
So ahalt thou be esteemed wyse, 
760 and men will thee commende. 
A man that is a niggard churle 

no tyme is lyberall : 
He commeth not of gentle blood 
764 that to Ids coyne is thralL 

Sit thou not in the highest place, 
where the good man ia present. 
But gyue him place : his maners marke 
768 thou with graue a«iuysement, 
Eegard honest condicions, friende, 

where ere thy steppes be bent. 
Or else some men with thee wyll not, 
772 assured, be content. 

In sport and play with man and wyfe, 

with yongman, mayde and chylde, 
Be thou still meeke, and honest to, 
776 gentle and also mylde. 

Suspect no counsayle if it be 
agaynst thee neuer moued : 
By foolish thoughts the wysest heads 
780 are often tymes deceyued. 

If thou come to a strange mans house, 

knock ere that thou go in ; 
Ne yet presume thou not to farre, 
784 though he bee of thy kin. 



K6BP MorctBa 



Be content. 



and take all 
things quietly. 



AnlgjKardia 
always stlncy. 



The slave to hla 
coin Is not well 
born. 



Always behave 
nicely* 



and be gentle in 
pUy. 



Don't be too 
sospicious. 



Knock at a honse 
before going in. 



104 



FOB THE WATTINQ SERUAUNT. 



Wfaeo sent with a 
meuage. know It 
well, and speak it 
boldly. 



Read godly books. 



He who Meka 
Wladom. la hia 
oountry'a friend. 



If case ye be of message sent, 

know you the same throughout : 
Then mayst thou speake boldly, be sure, 
788 and neuer stand in doubt. 

Delight to reade good Godly bookes, 

and marke the meaning well, 
Thereof comes vertue, knowledge, 
792 pure wysedome, and sweete counselL 
Here of this matter thus, my friend, 

I seeme to make £in ende : 
He that doth haunt to wysdoms bowre 
796 remaynes his countreys friend. 



HUGH BHODES'S BOKE OF NURTUBE. 105 



f %\t |[ult of fionest f iaing. 



Xf thou desyre temperance, cut away all super- 
fluitye, and brydle in thy desyres within thy mynde ; 

consyder to thy selfe what nature req[u]yreth, and not 
what sensuall concupiscence appeteth. 

Put a brydle & a measure to thy concupiscence, & 
cast away the things that draw thy mynde with secrete 
pleasure. 

Eate without surfet. 

Drinke without dronkennesse. 

Let thy lyuing be of light repaste ; come not for 
wanton pleasure, but for desyre of meate;«.let hunger 
moue thy appetyte and not sauery sauces, 

Thinke that all thing may be su£&ed but vilany 
and dishonesty; abstayn euer from wordes of rybaudxy, 
for a tongue euer lyberall nourisheth folly. 

Loue rather wordes profytable then eloquent and 
plesaunte, right wordes then flattering. 

Thou shalt sometyme myxe with sadnesse thy 
merry iestes, but temperately, and without hurt of thy 
dignitye and honesty ; for laughing is reproueable if it 
be out of measure ; if lyke a chylde, it is effuse and 
wanton ; if lyke a woman, foolish. 

K thou be a continent man, auoyde flatteiy, & let 
it be as paynefull to thee to be praysed of lewd and in- 
honest persons, as if thou be praysed for lewd and in- 
honest deedes. 

Ee more ioyous and glad when thou displeasest 
euill persons ; and take the euill iudgements of them 
touching thee, as a true prayse of thee. 



106 THE RULE OF HONEST UUINO. 

It is a very hard work of continence to repell the 
paynting glose of flatterings whose words resolue the 
hart with plesure. 

Alure not the loue of any man by flattery, nor set 
not open the waye by that meane to get thee lone and 
friendshyp ; thou shalte not be mad hardye, nor pre- 
sumptyous ; submit thy selfe and stoope not to low, but 
keepe a meane grauity. 

Be aduertised with good wil, and take rebuke 
paciently. 

K any man chyde thee with cause, be thou assured 
that hQ doeth profyte thee. If so be without thanke, 
that hee wylleth thy profyte. 

Thou shalte not feare sharp words, but dread fayre 
wordes. 

If thou be a continent man, regard the moouinges 
and afflictions of thy soule and body, that they be not 
out of order; nor therfore doe not set hghte by them, 
because they be vnknown, for it forceth not if no man 
see them, whan thou thy selfe seest them. 

Be actiue and styrring, but not of Hght fashyon, 
constant, but not obstynate : let it not be vnknown nor 
greuous to thee thou hast not knowledge of any thing. 

Cherish al that be thy Peeres ; disdayne not thy in- 
feryours by pryde; cast not away thy superiours that 
Hues vpright. 

In requyting a good toume, shew not thy selfe neg- 
ligent, nor contrarye : bee not an exactour of another 
man. 

Be lyberall to euery man. 

To no man flattering. 

Familier but to few. 

Equall to all men. 

Be not light of credens to new rayscd tales, nor 
crymes, nor suspicious to maligne no man* 

Slack and slow to yre. 

Prone, inclyned to mercy. 



HUGH BHODES'S BOKE OF NUBTUBE. 107 

Stable in aduersytya 

And hider of vertue, as other be of vice. 

Be a dispyser of vayne glorye, and no busy bragger « 

of the vertues with the which thou art indued. ir 

Despyse no mans follye and ignoraunce : be thou of 
fewe wordes, but suffer other to speake. 

Be sharpe, but not cruell, nor desgyse him that is 
merry. 

Be desyrous of wysedome, and apte to leame it 

Men leame when they teache. 

Be content to departe to a man wylling to leame 
suche thinges as thou knowest, without arrogance and 
pride. 

Desyre to haue knowledge of suche thinges which 
thou knowest not, wythout concealement of thy igno- 
raunce. 

xLE that spendeth much 

and getteth nought, 
He that oweth much 

and hath nought, 
He that looketh in his purse 

and fyndeth nought, 
He may be sorry 

and say nought. 

1" He that may and will not. 
He then that would shall not, 
He that would and cannot, 
May repent and sighe not. 

% He that sweareth 

tyll no man trust him. 
He that lyeth 

tyll no man beleue him. 
He that boroweth 

till no man will lendc him. 



108 THE RULE OF HONEST LIUINQ. 

Let him go where no 
man knoweth him. 



% He that hath a good Mayster 

and cannot keepe him. 
He that hath a good seruaunt 

and not content with hym, 
He that hath such condicions 

that no man loueth hym. 
May well know other, 

but few men wyll knowe hym. 



{lb mensam. Compslcb kg 
i«8b $bob« oi tfre 



[Note.—? Should not 1. 169, p. 86, be ' He lykeneth a good 
man to Christ.' In 1. 172, * to obey to man trnely/ shoold man be 
Ood, or does the line refer to the good woman, as I have made it^ 
1j. 660. A Cockscombe. * Natural idiots and fooles hane, and still 
do aocustome themselves to weare in their cappes, eoekea feathers, 
or a hat with a neck and head of a eoek on the top, and a bell 
thereon, &o., and thinke themselTes finely fitted and proudly attired 
therewith.' Minshcw.] 



THE PRINCIPAL VARIOUS READINGS 



OP douce's imperfect copy op 



Printed by Th<ma$ Petyt {before 1654,) 



[Title page warding, '\ 

p. 63. Heading adds, * with Stans paer ad mensam, newly corrected, 

Tery vtyle and necessary vnto all youth/ 
1. 3-4. it encreaseth faaor,/or it getteth fauour in the syghte of men. 
6. it encreaseth prayer / & by prayer grace, & to vse chyldren 

in vertae and good lemynge,ybr it also .... learning. 
9. ' is for lacke of vertue in youth,' ybr 'is, is . . youth.' 
14. coffuersacyon ybr behauyoure 

20. & dothe daylyybr euerlasting paynes. 

21. ' for a gouemour to vse them to fayre speche, & to sette 

well theyr wordes with a good aduisement without stamer- 
ynge. And yf ye put them to scole awaye frome you, se 
ye put them to a dyscrete mayster that can,' /or 'for 
Fathers . . . such as can.' 
p. 64. 1. 7. the worde of god /or hys worde 

12. renyethybr denieth 

14. ' Also to appose your semauntes yf they can theyr byleue : 
also yf they brynge anye thynge home that is mysse taken, 
or tell tales, or newes of detraccyon, ye shall then ' /or 
* if they be tale tellers or newes caryers ' 

18. fassyon/>r behauiour 

19. that are of lefuU dyscrecyon inserted after semauntes. 
25. to moche camall loue/or muche familiaritye 

28. and somtyme vse themybr Take them often with you 
30. ' herde preached, & vse them not to rede fayned fables, or 
vayne fantases, or of folysshe loue : it is tyme loste ' /or 
' heard . . youth ' 
L 34. & 1. 1, p. 65. thou /or they. 

Ifom the 9.0/ ' among,' p. 65, 1. 2, to p. 71, /. 10, is lost in 

Doners copjf, which begins again with /. 11, p. 71, 
Borne and bred in Deuenshhyre / my termes wyl wel showe 



110 VARIOUS READINGS. 

p. 71. 1. 20. . . . my selfe/or this booke 

21-4. I wolde refourme both youth & age / yf any thynge be amys 
To yoa wyl I shewe my mynde / refourme ye where nede is 
p. 72. 1. 56. Stande not to fast in thy conceyt. / 67-8 omitted. 
p. 73. L 63-6. Loke thou forget not to blysse the / ones or twyse 

In the momynge vse some denocyon / & let for no nede 
92. , , • y« oo»trary wyl be to thy dispraysyng 
107-8, Gentyl is to vse fayre spech / it requyreth nothyng but good 
111-12. Knele / sytte / stande / or walke / deuoutly loke thou do pray 
To helpe a preest to say masse / it is greatly to be commended 
Thou takest on hande an auji gels office / the preest to attend 
] 17. . • . * chyrche '/or * Temple see * 
119-22. CojnmunicacyOM vse thou not / to women preestes nor clarkes 
When your deuocyoff is done / and tyme is towardes dyner 
131. Gyue him reuerenoe 
p. 75. L 145-6. Leane not on the one syde / when thou speakest for nothyng 
161. . . , ' with a pause 'for ' distinctly ' 
168. . . . that is good I thynke 
p. 77* 1. 228. . . , that is gentelly do 
p. 78. L 271-2. mth moch fle«3he & lytel bread / fyl not thy mouth lyke a 

barge 
q/ler 1. 276 insert A pjrnte at a draught to powre in fast / as one in haste 

Foure at a mease is .iii. to many / in suche I thynke waste 
p. 79. L 288. . . . when thou haste forgette 

p. 80. 1. 323-4. For then wyll your souerayne / thynke in you checke mate* 
331-2. Moche wagynge with thy heed / semeth thou arte not wyso 
345-6. Take your napkyn & stryke forth the crommes before the 
p. 81. 1. 351. With tonge & hande be not ragyous 
361. Then perceyue ye a tyme to ryse 
368. ... as best is for you honestly 

372. . . . that is sure and clere 

373. Speke not moch in thy felowes ere 

p. 83. 1. 37-40. yf fortune the auaunce / and put the in some hye degre 

Be thou lyberall & gentyll / yf thou wylte be ruled by me 

48. • . , for it is euyll deuisyon 

49. . . , spende gkdly . . . 

61. . . . reformable / nor of reason wyl take no hede 
81-2. omitted, 

95-6. . . substauiice / lowlynesse wyll do tlie honesty 
99-100. Do thy dilygence, sufTre a tyme / an yll seruauiit is ful of 
vyce 
p. 85. 1. 129. A tendable seruaufft 
p. 86. 139-40. omitted. 

147-52. And tell them storyes of loue, & so to you they wyll repay re 
Suche pastymes somtyme, doth many men auaunce 
In way of maryage, and your good name it wyl enhaunce 



HUGH RHODBS'S BOKH OP NURTURE. Ill 

p. 87. 1. 201. The best Ijeng wit A a woman when she is yonge clene & 

lyght 

And when thon wylte feble the body and hed / & wast the 

syght 
What people are yl to please / whose hert & eye is insaciable 
p. 88. 233. Make thy myrrour 

235. Do thon lyke to them 
262. ... & knowlege without gouernaojis 
p. 90. 1. 307-8. Wyse or folysshe, to rule or be ruled / or to be set at nought 
309-11. If thou wyll take no payne in youth / & wyll be called wyse 
Thou muste take payne in age / and be full of yyce 
p. 91. 1. 329. Take hede to day before to morowe 
331. Blame no goodnes, prayse no euyll 
335-6. Couetyse auoydeth gentylnes / and lechery good fame 
340. ... in a busy tonge none ther is 
p. 92. 1. 355. In lytell valowe lyeth moche shame 
357. Be not busy with 
359-60. For suche of tymes byddeth them / vnto an euyll feeste 
1. 363-6. An yreful body is neuer quyet, nor iji rest where he doth dwell 
1. 367. One amonge .x. 
1. 377. To chyde and braule seldom 

383-4. Malys had in a frendly wyse / maketh a frende of thy fo 
385-6. And thou be good thou mayst do good / that is very playne 
p. 93. 1. 399-404. To do you a pleasure at nede / ye shall fynde them nere 

And tliou wylte do for no man / in thy prosperyte 
Who then shall do for the / when thou arte in thy aduersyte 
411-12. Betrare of comon grudgers / for they wyll fayle the at nede 
415-16. When such men thvnke them self most sure / sodaynly they 
fal " • 

421-4. In auctoryte, & vnder thy gouemaunce / do no man blame 
Fynd few fautes, vse gentyl speche / to get the a good name 
p. 94. 1. 427-30. Without hye wordes / p^rceyuyng hym selfe he hath yll done 

Tempt no man that is moued / multiplyeng from .iL to ten 
431-2. In malis be not sclauffderus / to thy felow haue no dysdayne 
445. For it is sayde of olde / better it is 
447. Be gentyll & beware of dysdayne 
451-3. Be not couetyse^ spende in mesure / accordyng as thou hast 

Beware of moche speakynge 
455-6. It is wysdome to speake lytell / for moche is taken for vyce 
p. 95. L 463-4. An honest man wyl vse his wordes / to put no man in dout 
467-70. In myne owne turne sodaynly / may I take a fall 

There is that can good skyl / and lacketh it shuld go therto 
482-4. ... to be raery or sad, to seme god or deuyll 

Cu^nyng not vsed grace without gouemaunce / is very euyll 
491. They do forget hones tye 
493. Displcsure of thcjii that lacke maner^ 



112 VARIOUS READINGS. 

p. 96. 1.499-500. He may not be agaynsayd, he thynketh hym selfe none such 

503-4. They thynke theyr owne conceyte wyse, yet it is very thyn 

505-8. Trauera not in one tale / stedfastnes wyl enhaunce thy name 

Lyght in.specbe and slowe in dedes / y wys it is great shame 

517-20. Bost the of no bawdynesse / for to haue it knowen 

Do well yet some wyl say yll / an euyl name is sone blowen 
523-4. Vse wordes lyke apparel / or let apparel be lyke your speche 

528. . . , then all your gardes and hoodes 
531-2. yf thou be as good as they / els shalt thon haue dysdayne 
p. 97. 1. 539-40. The lesse tiiou medlest / the better shalte thou please 
643-4. To be beloued / is the propertye of a wyse man 
547-50. For thy speche is sone ptfrceyued / thy tale shall iudge the 
best 
Prayse not thy selfe / bycause thou woldest haue souereynte 
556. , , , vse them not for shame 
558. .. . for ynough is a treasure 
559-60. Moche laughyng is reputed / in suche as lacketh nurture 

562. . . , to be mery amonge is auauntage 
567-8. For with a good forethought, ye may make a frend at nede 
p.- 98. 1. 575-6. And so content with a lytell payne, then after with sorowe 
599-600. Be as glad to brynge it / then thou roayst borowe agayne 
603-4. yf thou fayle then foloweth payne / then is it derely bought 
p. 99. L 621-2. A prodygal man / wyl aboue his degre couet to mayntayne 

So may not he prosper / spendynge his goodes in \ayne 

628. • . , then apereth thy wysdome to late 

629-36. He that workcth by good couiisell / doth many a man please 

It is to his frende great pleasure / & to hym selfe greate ease 

He thou hast displeased haue in suspect / yf he speke playne 

Such malys is ofte in mynd / tyll he be payed home agayne 

p. 100. 1. 641-4. When y" hast loue, seke for profyte / loue endureth not euer 

It ebbeth & floweth / it lasteth no lenger thexi pleseth y« 
gyuer 
646. , , . gentelly go and se 

It it (sic) agaynst maner / he shulde ryse and come to the 
651. Alway crauyng / carynge for them selues / and not for thyne 
654. , , . y^' pore asketh nought els of thy good 
659. Fayre speche with a subtyl tonge, 
663-4. An honest man to mocke or rebuke / it is agaynst al curt^sye 
667-8. Of good sayeng cometh no yll / wherfore say well for shame 
673-6. A pore ma» wyse is worshyp / in a gentylmax vnstable is foly 
Worshypful byrth & shamfullyfe / in ageiitylmajf is vngoodly 
p.lOl. 1.677 85. A gentylman mercyful / a chorle spyteful is great diuersyte 

One lyberal, another couetous, sheweth theyr natyuyte 
Poore men faytbfull, and gentylmen decey tful in lyuynge 
The gredy myndes of rulers / hath caused blode shedynge 
Grace foloweth good gouemauns 



HUGH RHODES'S BOKE OF NURTURE. 113 

p, 101, 1. 695-6. Some be lyberal of they r tonges, coa;t3el they can not bynde 

700. . . . gyue no sente^s tyl truth by tryed out 

703-4. In my mynde I holde it best^ thy counsel! neuer bewray 

707-14. When counsel is closed in thy brest, vttrau^ce wyl the rue 

It is good to kepe close cou^isel^ except sufficyent probacy on 

p. 102. A knot vnknyt is easy to slack, y^ people are ful of decepcion 

1. 713. Take hede to whom y° brekest thy mynde, onely for flattery 

727-8. Better is a trewe rebuke of thy fo, then a fals prayse of thy 

frende 
731-2. Put apart al sad fantases, & shew them gentyl familyaryte 
739-40. A smal reward pleseth a frend, empty fystes cbm not hawkes 
reclayme 
p. 103. L 755-6. yf they be gentyll and pleased, men wyll report them kynde 
758. .. . but gently be contented 
761-4. A man controUyng & yl to please, & in payment nothyng 
lyberal 
It coinmeth nothynge of gentylnesse, to be prodygall 
769-72. Regard thy honesty in euery company, where tyme is spent 
Conuay nothyng therof to thy self / so men wyll not be 
content 
775-6. Vse gentyll pastyme / then wyU men co/»mende thy myrth 
p. 104. after i Go no further then behoueth the / lest thou haue blame 
1. 784 insert \ In truste is treason, be ruled by reason / euer fle from shame 
787-8, A tale well knowen may be well tolde the (trueth tryed out) 
791-6. I holde it of this matter / beste for to make an ende 

He that wyll not for wysdome seke / is not his owne frende 

p. 105-7. TAe Prose Fart of the Rule of Honest Liuing is omitted* 

p. 108. 1, 14. Hewe Rodes one of the kjrnges chapell. Imprynted 

at London in panics chyrchyarde by Thomas Petyt. 



A few notes to fill up a page and a quarter* * 

Words of villany, p. 64. Loose talk and swearing. Prom Roberde of 
Brunne downwards, and before him long, no doubt, the English habit of 
swearing has been cause of sharp reproof. R. Brunne rebukes the gentlemen 
of his time for it : 



joure vnkynde vpbreydyng, 
^e shul go a deueyl weye 
But )e amende 30U ar ^e deye ; 
Por euery gadlyng nat wur^ a pere 
Takyth ensample at 30W to swere. 

Handling Sgnne, p. 26, 1. 761-70. 
Andrew Borde says " in all the worlde, there is not suche odyble swear- 

8 



pys gentyl men, {>ys gettours, 
pey ben but Goddys turmentours ; 
pey turmente hym alle l^at j^ey may, 
WyJ> fals ojjys ny^t and day. 
But 3e leue ^oure fals sweryng. 



114 HUGH RHODEB's DOKE OF KURTURE. 

ynge as is vsed in Englande, specyally amonges youth and chyldren^ whiclie 
is a detestable thynge to here it, and no man doth go aboute to punysshe it." 
Hegyment^ fol. D .ij. back. 

In £dward the Fourth's Gonrt the fine for swearing was that the offender 
should have " no wyne at the meles." H. Ord,, p. 68. 

Page 66, 1. 11. House of office. Compare ' And of all thynges let the 
butterye, the celler, the kytchyn, the larder house, with all other houset oj 
offices be kepte cleane. Andrew Borde. Regiment, fol, B. \y. 

Tooth pick^ p. 78, 1. 245-8. When were tooth-picks introduced into England? 

The Anglo-Saxons had them, seemingly. Mr Cockayne translates do 
medmicel on \>a eagan md to\> gare (Leechdoms, ii. 36) by " Introduce a 
small quantity [of the eye-salve] into the ey«s with a tooth-piek," But the 
gar may have been a surgical tooth-instrument, a scraper, and not a substi- 
tute at dinner for Kodes's stick. Withals, 1 556, gives ' a tothe picker, 
dentiscalpium,* Thierry, in 1564 — (Estienne 1539 and -49 re-edited : Way) 
has ' Fn curedent, Dentiscalpiam.' Levins in 1570 gives " a Pike for the 
eares, teeth &c., scalprum*' MaHtpulum, Pref. p. vi. ed. 1866 ; and then 
come all the authorities collected by Nares, who says : 

Tooth-picks appear to have been first brought into use in Italy ; whence 
the traveUer who had visited that country, particularly wished to exhibit 
that symbol of gentility. 

" Now your traueller, 
Hee and his tooth-picke at my worship's messe." King John, i. 1« 

The equipment of a fine gentleman is thus described by Massinger : 

" 1 have all that's requisite 
To the making up of a signior : my spruce ruff, 
My hooded cloak, long stocking, and paned hose. 
My case of toothpicks, and my silver fork 
To convey an olive neatly to my mouth." 
The Great Duke of Florence, Act iii. (p. 179, col. 2. ed. 1839). 

They were even worn at one time as an ornament in the hat. 

"Answer the time of request, Virginitie like an olde Courtier, weares her 
cap out of fashion, richly suted, but vnsuteable ; iust like the brooch & the 
tooth'piek, which were not now." All's Well that Ends Welly i, 1. 

See also Nares's quotations under picktooth, and his Editors' extract from 
the Nomenclator (P ed. 1585, not that of 1548 noticed in the Promptorium), 
* Dentiscalpium. . . Curedent. A tooth-scraper or tooth^rake* Cotgrave 
in 1611 has ' Cure-dent, A tooth-picke', and Harrington, 1624, says 'cleanse 
the teeth either with luory or a Harts Jiome, or some picker of pure siluer 
or gold.' 



Sfet 




0^ 4 M^4^^ 



(^olmtipj (fitglanJts jts^, 



BY MB 



|0l^tt llttssjell, 



SUM TYME SERUANDB WITH DUKB VMFREY OF CLOWCETUR, 

A PRYNCB FULLB ROYALLE, WITH WHOM VSCHERE IN 

CHAMBUR WAS Y, AND MERSHALLB ALSO 

IN HALLE. 



Edited from the Harleian MS. 4011 in the Britiah Museum 



BY 



FREDERICK J. EURNIVALL, 

H.A., TRIN. HALL. OAMB. ; MEMBER OF OGUNCIL OV THE PHILOLOGICAL 
AND EABLY ENGUSH TEXT EOCIBTIBB ; LOYEB OF OLD BOOKS. 



H 



CONTENTS OF RUSSELL. 



SYBIIT 8EETANT) 



PROLOGUE 

INTRODUCTION, MEETING OF MASTER AND PUPIL 

THE PANTER OR BUTLER. HIS DUTIES 

(and HBRBIN of broaching wine, of fruits and CHBB8B, 
AND OF THB GARB OF WINBS IN WOOD) 

NAMES OF SWEET WINES 

HOW TO MAKE YFOC&AS . . 

THB BOTERY 

HOW TO LAY THB TABLE-CIjOTH, ETC. 

HOW TO WRAP UP BREAD STATELY 

HOW TO MAKE THB SURNAPE 

HOW TO MANAGE AT TABLE 

SYMPLE OONDICIONS 

(or rules FOR GOOD BEHAYIOUR FOR 

THB CONNYNGE OF KERVYNGB 

FUMOSITEES 

KERUYNG OF FLESH 

BAKE METES (hOW TO CARVE) 

FRIED metes; with l'eNVOY 

POTAGES 

DIUBRCB SAWCES 

KEKVYNG OF FISCHJ? 

OFFICE OF A SEWER 

(or ARRANGER OF THB DISHES ON THE TABLE, ETC.) 

A DYNERE OF FLESCHJ^ : 
THE FURST COURSE 
THE SECOND COURSE . . 
THE ilj^^ COURSE 



PAGE 

117 

118-19 

120-5 



125 

125 

128 

129-30 

130-1 

132-3 

133-4 

134-7 

137-9 

139-40 

140-6 

146-8 

149-50 

150-1 

151-3 

153-61 

162-3 



164 

165 

165-6 



CONTEXTS OF RUSSELL. 



PAGE 



A DINERE OF FISCH^: 

THE FURST COURSE . . . . . . . . 166 

THE SECOND COURSE . . . , . . . . 167 

THE THRID COURSE . . . . . . . . 168 

THE .iiij. COURSE OF FRUTE, WITH FOUR SOTELTEES 168-9 

THE SUPERSCRIPCTOUN OF THE SUTILTEES ABOUE 

SPECIFIED . . . . . . . . 169-70 

A FEST FOR A FRANKLEX . . . . . . 170-1 

SEWES ON FISHJS? DAYES . . . . . . . . 171-2 

SAWCE FOR FISCHK . . . . . . . . 172-5 

THE OFFICE OFF A CHAMBURLAYNE . . . . 175-80 

(how to dkess tour lord, prepare his pew in church, 
strip his bed, prepare his privy, etc.) 

THE WARDEROBES . . . . . . . . 180-2 

(how to put your lord TO BED, AND PREPARE HIS BED- 
ROOM, ETC.) 

A BATHE OR STEWE SO CALLED . . . . . . 182-3 

(how TO PREPARE ONE FOR YOUR LORD) 

THE MAKYNG OF A BATH-B MEDICINABLE . . . . 183-6 

THE OFFICE OF VSSHER A MARSHALL^ . . . . 185-94 

(with the ORDER OF PRECEDENCY OF ALL RANKS) 

the summary . . . . . . . . . . 194-8 

i/envoy . . . . . . . . . . 198-9 

(the author asks the PRAYERS OF HIS READERS, AND HE OR 
THE COPIER COMMENDS THIS BOOK TO THEM) 

NOTES . . . . . . . . . . . . 200-39 

(WITH BITS FROM LAWRBN8 ANDREWE, ON FISH, ETC.) 

illustrative extracts, 
wilyam bulleyn on boxyng and neckeweede . . 240-3 
andrew borde on sleep, rising, and dress . . 244-8 

WILLIAM VAUGHAN's 15 DIRECTIONS TO PRESERVE 

HEALTH . . . . . . . . . . 249-53 

SIR JN. HARINGTON's DYET FOR EVERY DAY . . . . 254-5 

SIR JN. HARINGTON ON RISING, DIET, AND GOING TO BED 256-9 



117 







[Harl. MS. 4011, Fol 171.] 



ti nomiiLt pilris, gob htft nu / tt iGIij for t}jaAU, in the name or 
(Et apiritiu; sanxti, whew that y goo by lond and Hoi/ohoi 
or els by see! oodk-pmei 

an vsshere y Am / ye may beholda /to a '•>"■" uiher 

•''•'•' ' to a Prince, and 

prynce of high^ degre, 
4 >at enioyetbe to enforme & teche / alk >o tbatt Jj^J^JJ" 
wille thrive & thee ', 

Of suche thynge^ as here^af tur shalla be shewed by 

my diligence 
To them Jat nought Can / wit^-owt gret exsperience ; ^^^V"^ 
Therfore yf any mafl Jat y mete withe, Jat' for fawt 

of necligence, 
8 y wylle hym enforme & teche, for hurtynge of my 

Conscience. 

To teche vertew and co7mynge, me thynkethc hit ittad^rftaWe to 

charitable, 
for moche youthe in connyngc/is barefl & fulle *«nof»n*y«»the. 

vnable ; 
pQT-foTe he fat no good cafi / ne to noofl wiUe be ifanymch won't 

learn, 

agreable. 
12 he shalle neuer y-thryve / ))erfore take to hym a give them a toy. 
babulle. 

^ do, get on. > ? |>at » nought can. 



118 



JOHN RUSSELL MEETS WITH HIS PUPIL. 



One May I went 
to a foreety 



and l^ the 
Foraeter*! leaye 
walked in the 
woodland. 



where I saw.three 
herdaof deer 

in the Bonshlne. 



A young man 
with a bow wae 
going to Italic 
them. 



bat I aeked him 
to walk with me^ 



and Inqnired 
whom he served. 



' No one bnt 
myself. 



and I wish I was 
out of this world.* 



Ji^ J rose owt of my bed, in a mery sesoun of may, 
to sporte me in a forest / where siglites were 

fresche & gay, 
y met with ))e forster / y prayed hym to say me not 

nay, 
16 ))at y mygh[t] walke in to his lawnde * where Je 

deere lay. 

as y wandered weldsomly* / in-to ))e lawnd ))at was 

so grene, 
Jjer lay iij. herdis of deere / a semely syght for to 

sene j 
y behild ofi my right hand / Je sofi ))at shofi so 
shene ; 
20 y saw where walked / a semely yonge man, fat 
sklendur was & leene ; 

his bowe he toke in hand toward pe deere to stalke; 
y prayed hym his shote to leue / & softely with me 

to walke. 
J)is yonge maii was glad / & louyd Yriih me to talke, 
24 he prayed Jat he myjt withe me goo / in to som 

heme* or halke*; 

J)is yonge man y frayned * / with hoom pat he 
wonned Jan, 

" So god me socoure," he said / " Sir, y serue my- 
self / & els noofi oper mafl." 

" is }>y gouernaunce good ? " y said, / **sofi ? say me 
3iff Jow call." 
28 "y wold y were owt of Jis world" / seid he / "y 
ne rou3t how sone whafi." 

^ The Lawnd in woodes. Salttu nemorum. Baret, 1580. 
Saltuif a lannde. Glossary in Sel» Ant.y t. 1, p. 7, ool. 1 ; saitus, a 
forest-pasture, woodland-pasture, woodland ; a forest. 

* at will. A.S. icilaum, free willed. 

' A.S. himey comer. Dan. hiome. 

^ Halke or hyme. AngultUy latibulum ; A.S. hylca, ainus, 
Promptorium Farvulorum and note. 

^ AS.fregnanj to ask; Goth.f fraihnan ; Qtxm,y fragen. 



lOHN RUBSELLS BOKB OF NURTUBB. 119 

" Sey nought so, good soft, beware / me thynkethe -Good Km, 

Jow menyst amysse ; 
for god forbedithe wanhope, for fata horrible synne <ton«ir *» ■*«; 

ySy tell mo what the 

ferfore Sofi, opefl thyfl hert / for peraveflture y ^^^^ 

COWd the lis » ; when the pain Is 

32 " when bale is hext / fafi bote is next" / good sone, J^^ • "^ 

leme Welle fis." .sir. rve tried 

" In certeyfi, sir / y haue y-sought / Ferre & neve ^''^'^ 

many a iinlsom way master; but be- 

to gete mete '-* a mastir ; & for y cowd nou3t / euary **"* 

mafi seid me nay, nothing, no one 

y cowd no good, ne noofl .y shewde / where euer y ^* 

ede day by day 
36 but wantoun & nyce, recheles & lewde / as lange- 

lynge as a lay." 

[Fol. 171 b.] 
What do yoa 

wiltow be a seruaunde, plowjmafi, or a laborers, want to be ? * 
Courtyour or a dark / Marchaund / or masouTi, or 
an artificere, 
40 Chamburlayn, or buttillere / panter^ or karverc ? " 

a ni * A Butler, Sir, 

Xne office of buttiler, sir, trewly / pantere or Panter, chamber- 

•I i_ 1 lain, and Carver. 

chambuTlayne, T«ush me the 

The connynge of a kervere, specially / of ))at y wold *°'**" of these.* 

leme fayne 
all« J)ese cownynge* to haue / y say yow in certayfi, 
44 y shuld pray for youre sowle nevyr to come in 

payne." 

Sou, y shallfi teche fe withe ryght a good wille, JJ^^^'^^jJi 
So ))at |)ow loue god & drede / for )>at is ryght and 
skylle, 

' AS. lis remissio, lenitas ; Dan. iite, Sw. /wo, relief, '/or me to 



120 



THE DUTIES OP THE PANTER OR BUTLER. 



true to joar 
master. 



A Pant«»or 
Butler miut have 

three kntves : 



1 to chop loavee, 
1 to pare them, 

I to smooth the 
trenchers. 



Give your Sove- 
reign new bread, 

others one-day- 
old bread ; 
for the house* 
three^y bread ; 
for trenchers 
four-day bread ; 

Have your salt 
white, 

and your salt- 
planer of ivory, 

two Inches 
brood, three long. 



Hare your table 
linen sweet and 
clean, 



your knives 
bright. 



spoons well 
washed. 



and to pY maatir be trew / liis goocW pat J)ow not 
spille, 
48 but bym lone & drede / and hys commaiindement3 
dew / fulfylle. 

The furst yere, my soft, pow sballa be pantere or 

buttilarc, 
pow must haue iij. knyffes kene / in pantry, y sey 

the, euermare : 
Ofl knyfe pe loves to choppe, anothere them for to 

pare, 
52 the iij. sharpe & kene to smothe pe trenchurs and 

square.* 

alwey thy sou^^-aynes bred thow choppe, & pat it be 

newe & able ; 
se alle oper bred a day old or pou choppe to pe table; 
all6 howsold bred iij. dayes old / so it is profitable; 
66 and trencher bred iiij. dayes is convenyent & agre- 

able. 

loke py salte be sutille, whyte, fayre and diye, 
and py planerc for thy salte / shalle be made of 

yverye/ 
pe brede perof ynches two / pen pe length, ynche 

told thrye ; 
60 and py salt sellers lydde / towche not thy salt bye. 

Good son, loke pat py napery be soote / & also 

feyre & clone, 
bordclothc, towelle & napkyn, foldyfl alle bydene. 
bryght y-pullished youre table knyve, semely in 

sy3t to sene ; 
64 and py spones fayre y-wasche / ye wote welle what 

y meone. 

* In Sir John Fastolfe*8 Bottre, 1466, are "ij. kerring knyfcs; 
iij. kneyres in a scbethe, the haftys of every (ivory) iwithe naylys 
gilt . . . j. trencher-knyfe." Domestic Areh.t v. 3, p. 157-8. 
Hee fnensaeula^ a dressyng-knyfe, p. 256 ; trencher-knyves, mensa' 
culos. Jn. do Garlande, Wright's Vocab. p. 123. 



lOHN RUSSELLS BOEE OF NURTURE. 121 

looke pow haue tarrers* two / a more & lasse for twowinA-aai^en, 

wyne j 
Tvyne canels' accordynge to J)e tarrers, of box fetice *»^ boxtapt, 

& fyne; 
also a gymlet sharpe / to broche & perce / sone to % broaching 

tume & twyne, 
68 Yriih fawcet' Atampyne* redy/to stoppe when ye a pipe and bung. 

se tyme. 

So wheii J)ow settyst a pipe abroche / good [sone,] To broach a pipe^ 

do af twr my lore : 
iiij fyngur ouer / J>e nere chyne* pow may percer or pienett with an 

, aaff«r or gimlet, 

"^^®^ fonrftngen- 

with tarrereor gymlet perce ye vpward J)e pipe ashore, breadth over the 

lower rim, 

72 and so shalle ye not cawse ]>e lies yp to lyse, y m that the dregs 

m«jiiot riae. 

wame yow euer more. 
Good sone, alle maner frute / )>at longethe for sesofi gerve Frait ae- 

"Fjgges I reysons / almande*, date* / buttwr, chese® / flg«» datee, 

nottus, apples, & pere, 
Composte* ^ & confitc^, chare de quynce» / white & quince-mar- 

■* ^ ^ I malade, ginger, 

grene gyngere ; Ac. 

^ An Augre, or wimble, wherewith holes are bored. Terebra & 
terebrum. Vng tarriere. Barct*8 Alvearie, 1580. 

* A Cannell or gutter. CanalU. Baret. Tuyauy a pipe, quill, 
cane, reed, canell. Cotgrave. CamlUt the faucet [1. 68] or quill of a 
wine vessel ; also, the cocke, or spout of a conduit. Cot. 

> A Faucet, or tappe, a flute, a whistle, a pipe as well to con- 
neigh water, as an instrument of Musicke. Fittula • . Tubulua, 
Baret. 

* Tatr^xm, a bung or stopple. Cot. Tampyon for a gon — 
tampon, Palsg. 

A The projecting rim of a cask. Queen Elizabeth's * yeoman 
drawer hath for his fees, all the lees of wine within fowre fingers 
of the chine, &c.' S, Ord. p. 295, (referred to by Halliwell). 

' ? This may be buiter'cheeae, milk> or cream-cheese, as contrasted 
with the *■ hard chese ' 1. 84-5 ; but butter is treated of separately, 
1.89. 

' Fruit preserves of some kind; not the stew of chickens, herbs, 
honey, ginger, &c., for which a recipe is given on p. 18 of lAber 
Cure Oocorum, Cotgrave has Compotte : f. A condiment or compo - 



122 



OF FltUITS BEFORE DINNER AND AFTER SUPPER. 



fFol. 172.1 
Before dinner, 
plums and grapes; 

after, pears, nnta, 
and hard cheese. 



After snpper, 
roast apples, &c 



76 and ffor aftwr questyons, or pj lord sytte / of hyni 
Jow know & enquere. 

Serve fastynge / plommys / damsons / cheries / 

and grapis to plese j 
aftwr mete /peeres, nottys /strawberies, wyneberies,* 

and liardcbesey 
also blawnderelle^,' pepyns / careawey in comfyte / 

Composts * ar like to pese. 
80 aftursopper,rosted apples, pere», blauncbe powder/ 

your stomak for to ese. 

Bition ; a wet sucket (wberein sweet wine was vsed in stead of 
•sugar), also, a pickled or winter Sallet of hearbes, fruits, or flowers, 
condited in vinegar, salt, sugar, or sweet wine, and so keeping all 
the yeare long ; any hearbes, fruit, or flowers in pickle ; also pickle 
it selfe. Fr. compoUf stewed fruit. The Recipe for Compost in the 
Forme of Cury, Recipe 100 (C), p. 49-50, is '<Take rote of p^rseL 
pasternak of raseiis. scrape hem and waische hem clene. take rap» 
& cabochw ypared and icome. take an erthen panne with clene wat^r, 
& set it on the flre. cast all \>\se |>mnne. whan pej huth boiled, 
cast |>«rto peertf, & porboile hem wel. take p'lBe thyngif up, & lat it 
kele on a fair cloth, do |>Mo salt whan it is coldo in a vessel ; take 
yinegtir, & powdoMr, & safroun, & do |>^to, & lat alle |>ise jnngis lye 
perm al ny^t oper al day, take wyne greke and hony clarified to- 
gidur, lumbarde mustard, & raisouns corance al hool. &gryndc pow- 
doMr of canel, powdour douce, & aneys hole. & fenell seed, take alle 
|>ise )>ing», & cast iogjdur in a pot of erthe. and take perof whan 
pou. wilt, & seme forth." 

* ? not A.8. tainherie, a wine-berry, a grape, but our Whin- 
berry. But ' Wineberries, currants*. Graven Gloss. ; Sw. vin-bdr, a 
currant. 

' Blandureattf m. The white apple, called (in some part of 
England) a Blaundrell. Ootgrave. ' See note to 1. 75, 

^ Finddre blanche, A powder compounded of Ginger, Cinnamoni 
and Nutmegs ; much in use among Gookes. Ootgrave. Is there 
any authority for the statement in Domeatie Arehiteeturej v. 1, p. 
132 ; that sugar * was sometimes called blanch powdre * f P.S. — 
Probably the recollection of what Pegge says in the Preface to the 
JPormeofOurp, "There is mention of blaneh'powder or white eugar** 
132 [p. 63]. They, however, were not the saqie, for see Ko. 193, 
p. xxvi-xzvii. On turning to the Recipe 132, of "Peerif in 
confyt," p. 62-3, we find " whan f^ei [the pears] buth ysode, take 
hem up, make a syrup of wyne greke. aper v^mage wttA blaunche 
powder, oper white sugur, and powdowr gyngwr, & do the perti 
I'mn.*' It is needless to say that if a modem recipe said take 



lOHN RUSSELLS BOKB OF NURTURE. 123 

Bewar at eve * / of crayme of cowe & also of the intheereniiig 

goote, Jau} it be late, Pl"^:'^:^ 

of Strawberies & hurtilberyes / Wit^ the cold ■• irtoCTit irSft] 

T J. 1 ftrawberrieB, or 

Ioncate,> junket. 

For )>ese may marre many a mafi changynge his 
astate, 
84 but 3iff he haue aftt^r, hard chese / wafurs, with uniMs yoa Mt 

. , hard cheese with 

wjne ypocrate.' them, 

hard chese * hathe bis condicioun in his operacionn: ^^ ®**^"; 

' ^ keepeyottr bowels 

Fuist he will6 a stomak kepe in the botom opefi, open, 
the helthe of euary creature ys in his condicioun ; 
88 yf he diete hym thus dayly /he is a good conclusioim. 

buttir is an holsom mete / fuist and eke last/ w™[n*^^^th L 

For he wille a stomak kepe / & helpe poyson a-wey ^^^ "*"' 

to cast, 
also he norishethe a mafl to be laske / and evy wdmperient. 

humeni^ to wast, 
92 andmt^ white bred/he wille kepe ])y mouthe in tast. 

<* sugar or honey/* ragar could not be said "to be aometimea 
caUed" honey. See Dawson Turner in Howard Houeahold Books. 
^ loneade : f. A certaine spoone-meat made of creame, Bose- 
water and Sugar. Cotgrave. 

* See the recipe to make it, lines 121-76 ; and in Forme of Cury, 
p. 161. 

' Muffett held a yery different opinion. * Old and dry cheese 
hurteth dangerously : for it stayeth siege [stools], stoppeth the 
Liver, engendereth choler, melancholy, and the stone, lieth long 
in the stomack undigested, procureth thirst, maketh a stinking 
breath and a scurvy skin : Whereupon Galen and Isaac have well 
noted, That as we may feed liberally of ruin cheese, and more 
liberally of fresh Cheese, so we are not to taste any further of old 
and hard Cheese, then to close up the mouth of our stomacks after 
meat, p. 131. 

* In youth and old age. Muffett says, p. 129-30, "according 
to the old Proverb, Butter is Oold in the morning, Stiver at nooHy 
and Lead at night. It is also best for children whilst they are 
growing, and for old men when they are declining ; but very un- 
wholesom betwixt those two ages, because through the heat of 
young stomacks, it is forthwith converted into choler [bile]. The 
Dutchmen have a by-Verse amongst them to this effect 

Eat Butter flraty and eat it laety 
And live till a hundred years be past,' 



124 



THE TREATMENT OP WINE3 WHEN PERMENTINO. 



Milk, Junket, 

PcMMt, AC^ 

are binding. 
Eat hard eheete 
Btter them. 



Beware of green 
meat; It weakens 
jour belly. 



Por fbod that wis 
yoor teeth on 
edge, eat almonds 
andcheeeeb 



bat not more than 
half an ounce. 



If drlnki liave 
given jon Indi- 
geetion, eat a raw 
apple. 

Moderation is 
best sometimes, 

at others 
abstinence. 

Look every night 
that your wines 

don't ferment or 
leak [the t of the 
MS. hss a k over 

it]; 

and wash the 
heads of the pipes 
with cold water. 

Always carry a 
gimlet, adze, 
and Ihien doUis. 



Milke, crayme, and crudde^, and eke the loncate,' 
pey close a mannes stomak / and so dothe pe possate ; 
f erfore ete hard chese afbir, yef ye sowpe late, 
96 and drynk romney modoun,' for feerc of chekmatc.' 

beware of saladis, grene metis, & of fnit^^ rawe 
for ]}ey make many a mafi haue a feble mawe. 
])erfor6, of suche fresch luster set not an hawe, 
1 00 For suche wantoun appetites ar not worth a strawe. 

alle maner rnett^ fat ]>y tethe oiL egge doth sette, 
take almondd^ pefiore ; & hard chese loke ))ou not 

for-gette. 
hit wille voide hit awey / but looke to moche ferof 

not Jou ete ; 
104 for Je wight of half an vnce wttA-owt rompney is 

gret. 

Jiff dyuerse diynke^ of theire fumosite haue J>e dis- 

sesid, 
Ete an appiille rawe, & his fumosite willa becesed ; 
mesure is a mery meene / whafi god is not dis- 

plesed; 
108 abstyncTis is to prayse what body & sowle ar plesed. 

Take good hede to pe wynes / Red, white / & 

swete, 
looke euery nyjt witJi a Candelle ))at Jey not 

reboyle / nor lete; 
euery ny^t 'with cold watwr washc Je pipes hede, 

& hit not forgete, 
112 &alle-wey haue a gymlet, & a dise,* yrlth lynnefi 

clowte« smalle or grete. 

1 See note to 1. 82. 

* See ' Rompney of Modon/ among the sweet wines, 1. 119. 

* Esehee ^ mat. Checke-mate at Chests ; and (metaphorically) 
a remedilesse disaster, miserie, or misfortune. Cot. 

* ? ascia^ a dyse, Vocab. in Heitq, Ant, t. 1 , p. 8, col. 1 ; ascia, 
1. an axe; (2. a mattock, a hoe; 3. an instrument for mixing 
mortar). Dtesael, ofte Diechsel, A Carpentcr-axe, or a Chip-axe. 
Hexham. 



lOHN RUSSELLS BOKE OF NURTUBE. 125 

Jiff pe wyne reboyle / Jjow shalle know by hys w the wine bou 

syngyng'?; 
perfore a pipe of coloure de rose^ / Jou kepe pat JJj^JJi***®*®*" 

was spend in drynkynge '' "^ 

the reboyle to Rakke to be lies of be rose / bat IToi. iwb.] 

•^ '^ r I r and that wiU cure 

shall6 be his amendyng^. it. 

116 ^\S. swete wyne be seeke or pallid / put in a Eomp- Bomney wiu 

. bring round sick 

ney for lesynge. • sweet wine. 



Stottt W&im.^ 



T 



he namys of swete wynes y wold Jat ye them The wm^ qf 
knewe : 



Vemage, vemagelle, wyne Cute, pyment, Easpise, 

Muscadelle of grew, 
Rompney of modofl, Bastard, Tyre, 03ey, Torren- 
tyne of Ebrew. 
1 20 Greke,Malevesyn, Caprik, & Clarey whan it is newe. 



Yjoms. 



G 



ood son, to make ypocras, hit were gret luetpe/ormakimg 

Ypoorat. 

lernynge, 
and for to take Je spice perto aitur pe propor- Take spices thua, 

cionynge, 
Gynger, Synamome / Graynis, Sugur / Tumesole, cinnamon, Ac, 
pat is good colourynge ; Ss i^* 

124 For cowmyfl peple / Gynger, Canelle / longe long Pepper 

pepur / hony aftwr claryfiynge. toCr]oo»«myiite 

^ ? The name of the lees of some red wine. Phillips has Bota 
Soligf a kind of Herh ; also a pleasant Liquor made of Brandy^ 
Sugar, Cinnamon, and other Ingredients agreeable to the Taste, and 
comfortable to the Heart. (So called, as being at first prepared 
wholly of the juice of the plant roe-soliB (sun-dew) or drosera. 
Diet, of Arts and Sciences, 1767.) 

' See note, 1. 31. * See note on these wines at the end of the poem. 

* In the Becipe for Jussel of Flessh (Household Ord., p. 462), 
one way of preparing the dish is < for a Lorde,' another way ' for 
Commons.' Other like passages also occur. 



126 



HOW TO MAKB TPOCRAB. 



Have three basins 



and tbree strain- 
iug^bags to them ; 

hang *em on a 
porch. 

Let yoar ginger 
be well pared, 

hard, not worm- 
eaten, 

(Colombyne Is 
better 

thanValadyne or 
Haydelyne) ; 



your sticks of 
Cinnamon thin, 

hot and sweet; 



Canel is not so 
good. 

Cinnamon is hot 
and dry. 



Cardamons are 
hot and moist. 
Take sugar or 



sugar eandy, 
red winey 

gralnes, 
ginger.pepper. 



look ye haue of pewter basons oofl, two, & thre, 
For to kepe in youre powduis / also pe licowr 

peria to renne wheii pat nede be ; 
to iij. basouns ye must haue iij bagges renners / so 

clepe bam we, 
128 & hange Jem oil a perche, & looke pat Sure they be. 

Se pat youre gynger be welle y-pared / or hit to 

powder ye bete, 
and pat hit be hard / wtt^wt worme / bytynge, 

& good hete ; 
For good gynger colombyne / is best to diynke 

and ete; 
132 Gynger valadyne & maydelyfl ar not so holsom 

in mete. 

looke pat yoz^r stikkea of synamome be thyfl, 

bretille, & fayre in colewre, 
and in youre mowthe, Fresche, hoot, & swete / pat 

is best & sure, 
For canelle is not so good in pis crafte & cure. 
136 Synamome is hoot & dry in his worchynge while 

he wille dure. 

Graynes of paradise,^ hoote & moyst pey be : 
Sugre of .iy. cute* / white / hoot & moyst in his 

propurte; 
Sugre Candy is best of alle, as y telle the, 
140 and red wyne is whote & drye to tast, fele, & see, 

Graynes* / gynger, longe pepur, & sugre / hoot & 
moyst in worchynge ;' 

^ Graines. Cardatnomunif Graine dc paradit. Baret. * Graines 
of Paradise ; or, the spice which we call, Graines.' Cotgraye. 

2 Cuitey a seething, baking. Cot. 

* Spices. Of those for the Percy Household, 1512, the yearly 
cost was £25 l^s. Id. for Piper ^ Rasyns of Corens, Prones, Gynger ^ 
Mace, Clovrez, Sugonr, Cinamom^ AUmonds, Daytts, Nuttmnggs, 
Oranee, TbrnesoU, Saunders, Bncder of Annesy Bice, Coumfctts, 
Oalynggay Long$ Piper, Blaynthe Powder , and Sofferon^ p. 19, 20. 
Household Book, ed. Bp. Percy. 



lOHN BUSSELLS SOKE OF NURTURE. 127 

Synamome / Canelk * / red wyne / hoot & drye in ciniuuiion,ipioe, 

feire doyngc ; 
Tomesole^ is good Ss holsom for red wyne colow- •ndtiirn«ioi6,and 
rynge: 
144 all^ ]}ese ingredyentetf, )>ey ar for ypocras makynge. 

Good sofl, youre powdurs so made, yche by )>am put each powd«r 

self in bleddt^r laid, iJ^. " 

hange sure jovLve p^che & bagges fat pey from Hang your rtndn- 

. . , ing-bags 80 that 

yow not brayd, 
& ]}at no bagge touche oper/do as y bane yow saide; thqrmajn't 
148 pe forst bag a galoun / alle oper of a potelle, vchoil ^ ^u^ Zb»n 
by ojer teied. "p^"^- 

Furst put in a basoun a galoun ij. or iij. wyne so red j Pat the powdan 

in two or three 

J)efl put in youre powdurs, yf ye wille be sped, gauonaofred 
and aftyr in-to pQ rennere so lett hym be fed, (Tol its.] 

152 fan in-to Je second bagge so wold it be ledde. Seae^^'bag 

loke pan take a pece in )>yne band eue^more amonge, 

and assay it iapj moutba if hit be any thynge strongs, (tasung and 

trying it now and 

and if J)ow fele it welle boje with mouthe & tonge, then), 
156 fafi put it in pQ iij. vesselle / & tary not to longc. J^^l* 

And ]}a£L yiS povi feele it be not made parfete, if it'e not right, 

))at it cast to moche gynger, with synamome alay 

pat hete ; 
and if hit haue synamome to moche, with gynger adddnnamon, 

«... . ginger, or augar, 

of UJ. cute; aa wanted. 

160 J>afl if to moche sigure per be / by discressioun ye 
may wete. 

Thus, soUjShaltowmakeparfite ypocras, as y the say ; 

1 CaneljSpyee. CKnantomumyOmomum, Promt. Pair. CamUe^oviT 
moderne Caimell or Cinnamom. Cot. (Named from its tube stalk ?) 

' liyume-aoleU, Tomesole, Heliotropimn. Cotgraye. Take bleue 
tumeaole, and dip hit in wyne, that the wyne may catch the colour 
thereof, and colour the potage therwith. H, Ord,, p. 465, and 
take red tumesoU steped wel in wyne, and colour the potage with 
that wyne, ihid. < And then with a little Tumuole make it of a high 
murrey [mulberry] colour.' Markham's Houswife, p. 70. 



128 HOW TO MAKE YPOCRAS. THE BOTERY. 

Mind f ou keep ^^^ ^^^ fj mowtlie to provB hit, / be J)ow tastyiige 

*"^'*- alle-way; 

strain It through . let hit reime in iiij. or vj bagger ; * gete fern, if Jjow 

iMgs of fine clothi 

may, 
164 of bultelk clothe*, if ))y bagger be pe fynere wit/t- 
owten nay. 

hooped at the Good sofl loke by bagg6« be hoopid at be mothe 

mouth, 

a-bove, 
J>e eurere mayst ))ow put in J>y wyne vn-to py behouo, 
the flTBt holding he furst bai? of a galoun / alle obcr of a potelle to 

agalloo^the '^ ~o o / r r 

others a pottle» prOVe ; 

168 hang6 pjhagges sure by Je hoopis ; do so for my loue ; 

and each with a ^(j vnduT euery bagge, good son, a basouw clere 

& bryght ; 
The Ypocrae is and HOW is be ypocras made / for to plese many a 

made. . 

Wight 
uee the dregs in be draff of be spicery / is good for Sewes in kychyn 

the kitchen. 

di3tj 
172 and 3iff J)ow cast hit awey, powdost J)ymastirnori3t. 

JM ow, good son, ))yne ypocras is made parfite & 
welle; 
Put the Ypocras y wold ban ye put it in staunche & a clene vessellc, 

in a tight dean i , «, , 

▼easel, and J)e mouthe fer-on y-stopped euer more wisely 

& felle, 
and serve it with 176 and serue hit forth with wafurs bobe in chambur 

wafers. ' 

& Celle. 



ThA Buttery, 



T^t tottrg. 



Keep all cups, ^V^J cuppes / py potte«, pou SO be clene hope 

Ac, clean. X .., . « 

Don't senre ale WitA-in & OWt ; 

old. " ^* [TJhyne £^Je .v. dayes old er pow seme it abowt, 

^ Manche : f. A sleeue ; also a long narrow bag (such as Hypo- 
eras is made in). Cotgraye. 

2 boulting or straining cloth. ' ij bnlteclotbes.' Status Domus de. 
Fynchall, a.d. 1360. Dom, Arch. y. 1, p. 136, note/. 



lOHN BUSSELLS BOKE OF NURTUBE. 129 

for ale }>at is newe is wastable wM-owtefl dowt : 
180 And looke Jat allejjynge be pure & clene Jat ye go 
abowt. 

Be fayre of answere / redy to serue / and also gen- Be dvii and 

telle of chere, ^*'*«*^' 

and Jan men wille sey * J>ere gothe a gentille officere.' 
be ware pat ye geue no persone palled * drynke, for and give no one 

. stale drink. 

feere 
184 hit myjt brynge many a man in dissese / durynge 
many a 3ere. 



s 



on, hit is tyme of Je day / pe table wold be layde. [FoI. its b.] 
Furst wipe be table wzt^ a clothe or bat hit ac. 

. , . Wipe the table. 

be splayd, 
ban lay a clothe oft be table / a cowche' it is Putaciothonit 

'^ '^ ^ ' (aoowche); 

called & said : 
188 take py felow oofl ende perof / & pou pat othere y<m take one end, 

yoor mate the 

that brayde, other; 

Thafi draw streight py clothe, & ley pe bou3t» cfi pe ^ ^^ ^^^^ ^^^^ 
yitur egge of pe table, eec<«dcioth(?)on 

oo r ' the outer edge of 

take pe vpper part / & let hyt hange evyfi able : the table, 
panfi take pe .iij. clothe, & ley the bou3t ofl pe thrt of the third 

T *j 1 1.1 cloth (?)oD the 

Inner side plesable, ^m„^ 

192 and ley estate wit^ the vpper part, pe brede of half 
fote is greable. 

Cover py cuppeborde of thy ewery wit/i the towelle coreryour cup- 

of diapery ; diaper towel, 

take a towelle abowt thy nekke / for pat is curtesy, put one round 
lay pat oon side of pe towaile ofl py lift anne dde'<myour°eft 

1 ann 

manerly, 

1 Stale, dead. Pallyd, as drynke (palled, as ale). Emortuus, 
P. Panr. See extract from A. Borde in notes at end. 

2 See Diet, de VAeademie, p. 422, col. 2, ed. 1835. < Couehe 
se dit aussi de Toute substance qui est dtendue, appliquce sur une 
autre, de mani^re k la coumr. Sevitir un mur d*une couehe de 
ptAtre, de fnortier, ^c' 

3 pr. repli : m. A fould, plait, or bought. Cotgrave. cf. BaWy bend. 

9 



130 



HOW TO LAY THE CLOTH AND WRAP UP BREAD. 



with your sove- 
reign's napkin j 



on that^ ttight 
loaves to eat» and 
tliree or four 
trencher loaves : 
in your left band 



the salt-oeUar. 



In your riirht 
hand, spoons and 
knives. 

Pot the Salt on 
tile right of yoor 
lord; 

on its left, a 
trencher or two; 

on their left, a 
knife, 

then white rolls, 
[* a space in the 

MS.] 

and beside them 
a spoon folded in 
a napkin. 



Cover all np. 



At the other end 
set a Salt and two 
trenchers. 

[t P MS.] 
J7oio to wrap up 
your lonTB bread 
in a wuuay tray. 



Cut your loaves 
all equal.. 



Take a towel two 
and a half yards 



196 an ofl pe same amie ley py soueraigiies napkyfi 
honestly; 

J)an lay on pat anne viij. louys bred / wtt^ iij. or 

iiij. trencherc lovis ; 
Take pat oo ende of py towaile / in py lift hand, 

as pe maner is, 
and pe salt Sellers in pe same hand, looke pat ye do 

this ; 
200 pat oper ende of pe towaile / in rijt hand wit^ 

spones & knyffes y-wis ; 

Set youre salt ofi pe right side / where sitter yoiira 

soverayne, 
ofi pe lyfft Side of youre salt / sett youre trencher 

oon & twayne, 
oft pe lifFt side of jour trenchoure lay youra knyffe 

syngwler & playfl ; 
204 and oft pe . . . .* side of youre knyflfe«/oofi by on 

pe white payne ; 

youre spone vppofl a napkyfl fayre / jot foldeft 

wold he be, * 

besides pe bred it wold be laid, soft, y telle the: 
Cover your spone / napkyfi, trencher, & knyflf, pat 
no maft hem se. 
208 at pe oper ende of pe table / a salt wit^ ij. trench- 
ers sett ye. 

DiV,t jeff pow wilt wrappe py soueraynes bred 

stately, 
Thow must square & proporcioun py bred clene & 

evenly, 
and pat no loof ne bunne be more pafi oper pro- 
porcionly, 
212 and so shaltow make py wrappe for py master 
manerly; 

paft take a towaile of Eaynes,^ of \j. yarded and 

half wold it be, 
' Fine cloth, onginally made at Rcnnce, in Brctagne. 



lOHN BUSSELLS SOKE OF NURTURE. 131 

take pj towaile by the endes dowble / and f aire oh long by the ends, 

a table lay ye, 
Baft take be end of bat bought / an handfulle in wdupabandftii 

' ' / ^ I firom each end, 

hande, now here ye me : 
216 wrap ye hard ])at handfnUe or mora it is pe styffer, 
y telle fe, 

Jjafl ley betwene J^e endes so wrapped, in myddes of "^ in the middle 

fat towellfi, 
viij loves or bonnes, botom to botofii, forsothe it eight i<»vee or 

bone, bottom to 

wuie do welld, bottom; 

and whefi J>e loofife* ar betwefl, faa wrappe hit pot • wrapper 
wisely & felle ; 
220 and for youre enformacioun more playnly y wille 
yow telle, 

ley it oil be vpper part of be bred, y telle yow C^o*- *74.] 

on the top, 

honestly ; 
take bo))e endis of ])e towelle, & draw pern straytly, twiet the ende or 
and wiythe an handfulle of fe towelle next fe bred gether, 
myghtOy, 
224 and se y&t thy wrappere be made strayt & evyfi smooth yoar 
styffely. 

whefi he is so y-graithed,* as rijt before y haue 

saide, 
f eii shalle ye opeiL hym thus / & do hit at a 

brayd, 
open ]>e last end of pj wrappere before pi souerayne and open the end 

t .J of it before your 

laid, lord. 

228 and youre bred sett in maner & forme : ])e& it is 
honestly arayd. 

Son, whefi fj souereignes table is drest in ])us Alter yonr lord's 

array, 
kouer alle ober bordee vriiJi Saltee: trenchers & lay the other 

tables. 

cuppes feroh ye lay ; 
J>an emperialla J>y Cuppeborde / with Siluer & gild ^^'fJ2|.^?L 
fulle gay, 

> A.S. meridian, to make ready, arniDge, prepare, 

9* 



132 HOW TO LAY THB 8URNAPB AND TABLE. 

your ifMhing- 23S fj Ewiy borde with basons & huour, watw hoot 

Cable with bMiiu, «l i j i. v * i 

Ac. & cold, eche oper to alay. 

Have plenty of loke ])at je haue napkyns, spones, & cuppis euer 

napkins, Ac, 

y-nowe 
to your soueraynes table, youre honeste for to 
allowe, 

and your pou ^^ t^^ pottes for wyne A ale be as clene as pey 

**®*^ mowe ; 

236 be euermore ware of flies & mote«, y telle pe, for 
J>y prowe. 

Hake the 5MniaiM fl\he sumape* ye shulle make with lowly curtesye 

rdoubie^napkin. with a clothe vndiT a dowble of rijt feire napiy ; 

take thy towailes ende* next yow wit^-out vilanye, 
Fold the two ends 240 and J>e ende of pe clothe ofi be vttur side of be 

of yonr towel, and n i. 

one of the doth, towelle bye ; 

Thus alle iij. endes hold ye at onis, as ye welle 
may; 

now fold ye alle there at oonys pat a pli3t passe 
a foot over, not a fote brede alle way, 

and lay it smooth jjafl lay hyt fayre & evyn bere as ye cafi hit lay ; 

for yonr lord to 

wash with. 244 pus aftz^r mete, ^iff yowre mastir wille wasche, pat 

he may. 

at pe ri3t ende of pe table ye must it owt gyde. 
The marshal pe marchalle must hit convey alonge pe table to 

must slip it aloDff ^ . i 

the table, glide ; 

So of alle iij clothes vppeward pe rijt half pat tide, 
and pnii u 248 and pat it be draw strayt & evyfl hope in lengthe 

■"~'^- & side. 

Then ndse the Then must ye draw & reyse / pe vpper parte of pe 

upper part of the 4.^^«i i >. 

towel. towelle, 

andi^y it even, Ley it wit^ut niifelynge 8trei3t to pat oper side, y 

pe telle ; 
pafl at euery end perof convay half a yarde or an elle, 

^ See tbe mode of laying the Samape in Henry YII.^8 time 
described in H. Ord., p. 119, at the end of this Poem. 



lOHN BUSSELLS SOKE OP NURTURE. 133 

252 pat fe sewera may make * a state / & plese his mastir to that the sewer 

,, («rr»ng«rof 

W61i6« diBhes^ may make 

a state. 

whan ])e state liath wascha, pa sumap drawne when your lord 

haewMhed, 

playne, 
befl must ye berc forbe be sumape before youre take up the suiv 

^ J- i- r J M^ with your 

souerayne, 
and so must ye take it vppe withe youre armes ^^o <"™>> 
twayne, 

and carry it back 

256 and to pe Ewery here hit youre silf agayne. to the Bwery. 

fr-howt youre nekke a towelie ye here, so to seme Cany a towel 

- - roond yoar neck. 

youre lorde, 
])an to hym make eurtesie, for so it wiUe accorde. 
vnkeuer youre brede, So by pe salt sette hit euyil unooreryonr 

1 1 bread} 

Oft pe borde ; 
260 looke berc be knyfe & spone / & napkyil wit^ eeethataiidinen 

have knife, spoon^ 

outy[n] any worde. and napkin. 

Euer whafi ye departe from youre soucraigne, looke BoJ?^wh^ you 
ye bowe yowr knees ; ^^' ^"^ **»'*• 

to pe port-payne* forthe ye passe, & pere vuj. Take eight loavea 

flrom the bread- 

loues ye leese : doth. 

Set at eijjur end of pe table .iiij. loofes at a mese, ^^^ "* 
264 pan looke f&t ye haue napkyil & spone eu67y 
persone to plese. 

wayte welle to be Sewere haw many potage« Lay for as many 

penonaaathe 

keuered he ; 
keuer ye so many personis for youre honeste. sewerhaaaet 

pafl serve forthe youre table / vche persone to his 

degre, 
268 and pat per lak no bred / trenchoure, ale, & wyne / «d have plenty 

euermore ye se. drink. 

' make is repeated in the MS. 

' '^ A I\>rtpayne for the said Pantre, an eine longe and a yerd 
brode." The Percy, or Northumberland Hoiisehold Book, 1512, 
(ed. 1827), p. 16, under Lynnon Clothe, ^ X porte poine^ to beare 
breade fro the Pantree to* the table with, lintheum panarmm* 
WithaU. 



134 



STtfPLE OONDICIONS : HOW TO BEHAVE. 



Be lively and 
■oft-epoken, oleui 
lUMl trell dniMd. 



Don't spit or pot 
yoar flngert Into 
cape. 



Stop all blaming 



and baokbltlnft 

and prevent 
oomplalnts. 



be glad of cliere / Curteiae of kne / & soft of speche, 
Fayre handed, clene nayles / honest arrayed, y tlie 

teclie; 
Coughe * not, ner spitte, nor to lowd ye reche, 
272 ne put youre fynguis in the cuppe / mooter for to 
seche. 

yet to alia J>e lorde* haue ye a sight / for grog- 

gynge & atwytynge * 
of fellows J>at be at pe mete, for peire bakbytyngc ; 
Se pey be serued of bred, ale, & wyne, for com- 

playnynge, 
276 and so shalle ye haue of alle men / good loue & 

praysynge. 



OenmU DbtelioM 
for Btkavicur, 



Spt^U rmtMnons. 



s 



Dont elair yonr 
book, aa if after 
aflea; 

or your head, aa if 
after a louse. 



See that yoareyea 
are not blinking 

and wateiy. 

Don't pick your 
noee, or let it 
droA 

or blow it too 
loud, 



^ymple Cowdicyons of a persone pat is not taught, 

y wille ye eschew, for euermore J>ey be nowght. 

youre hed ne bak ye claw / a fleigh as paughc ye 

sought, 

280 ne yourc heore ye stryke, ne pyke / to prallc* for a 

flesche mought.* 

Glowtynge * ne twynkelynge yriHi youre y3e / ne to 

heuy of chere, 
vr&teTj/wjjikjiige/ne droppynge/but of sight cler^. 
pike not youra nose / ne pat hit be droppynge 

wit^ no peerlis clere, 
284 Snyfif nor snitynge* hyt to lowd / lest youre 

80U67*ayne hit here. 

* Mark over A. ^ A.S. egttoitan, twit; ofSwUan, blame. 

' ' prowl, proll, to seek for prey, from Fr. proie by the addition 
of a formative I, as kneel from knee.' Wedgwood. 

8 Louse is in English in 1630 ' Louse, a heeBt—pov, Palsgraye. 
And see the note, p. 19, Book of Quinte Essence. 

^ To look snllen (?). GUnioiing round ber rock, to fish she falls. 
Chapman^ in Todd's Johnson. Horrour and ghuiing admiration. 
Milton, GlotUing with sullen spight. Oarth. 

^ Snytyn a nese or a candyl. Emungo^ mungo. Prompt. Parr. 
JSmungo, to make cleane the nose. Bmunctio, snuffyng or wypynge 



lOHN BUSSBLLS BOK£ OF NURTURE. 135 

wiye not youre nek a doyle' as hit were a dawe ; or twirtyoar 

lieek. 

put not youre handed in youre hoseii youre codware* Dont cbw your 
for to clawe, **^ 

nor pikynge, nor trifelynge / ne shrukkynge aa 
J>au} ye wold sawe ; 
288 yoi^r honde^ frote ne rub / brydelynge wUh brest rub yoar haifcu, 
vppofi yoMT crawe ; 

with youre eiia pike not / ner be ye slow of herynge; p*ck yonr «ara» 
arecbe / ne spitt to ferre / ne haue lowd laughynge ; wt«h, or spit too 
Speke not lowd / be war of mowynge' & 
Bcomynge ; 
292 be no lier wtt^ youre mouthe/ne lykoroua/ ne Don't teu uw, 
dryvelynge. 

wz't/i youre mouthe ye vse nowper to squyrt, nor ^^^'^^ 

spowt ; 

be not gapynge nor ganynge, ne with fj mouth gape, pout, or 

topowt; 

lik not with by tonire in a disch, a mote to haue owt. put yonr tongue 

r^ -^ — » In » diah to pick 

296 Be not rasche ne recheles, it is not worth a clowi dost oat. 

IPoJ. 17».] 

wi't^ youre brest/ sighe, nor cowghe/nor brethe, Don't cough, 

youre souerayne before ; 
be yoxinge,* ne bolkynge / ne gronynge, neuer J>e hiccup, or beidi, 

more; 

of the noee. Cooper. Snuyi uw neua, Blow your nose. Sewel, 
1740 ; but muyven, ofte muffen. To Sauffe out the Snot or Filtb 
out of ones Nose. Hexham, 1660. A learned friend, who in his 
bachelor days investigated some of the curiosities of London life, 
informs me that the modem Cockney term is sling. In the dress- 
circle of the Bower Saloon, Stangate, admission 3d., he saw stuck 
up, four years agoj the notice, ** OentUmm are requested not to 
alittfft** and being philologioally disposed, he asked the attendant 
the meaning of the word, 

^ askew. Dopie^ squint. Gloucestershire. HalliwelL 

' Godde, of mannys pryuyte (preuy membris). P^o, mmtula. 
Promptorium Panrulorum. 

3 Mowe or skome, Vangia vel valgia. Catholicon, in P. P. 

* 3yxya Singuleio. ^yzynge singultus. P. P. To yexe, sobbe, or 
haue the hicket. Singultio. Baret To yexe or sobbe, Hieken^ To 
Hick, or to have the Hick-hock. Hexham. 



136 



SYiiPLB condicionb: how to behave. 



cftflt stinking 
breath on your 
lord. 



your oodware 



stnuidieyouriega, wM youre feet twunpelyngc, ne settynge your^ 

leggis a shore * ; 
or Krub your 300 vrOh youre body be not shrubbynge * ; lettynge ' is 

body. 

no loore. 
Don't pick your Good sofl, J)y tethe be not pikynge, grisynge,* ne 

teeth, 

gnaatynge* ; 
ne Btynkynge of brethe ofi jovue souerayne 

castyngfi ; 
with puffynge ne blowynge, nowfer fulle ne 

f astynge ; 
Are your stem 304 and sUb wey be ware of by hyndur part from 

guns, or expose 

gUTines blastynge. 

These Cuttid^ galaunte^ with theire codware ; J^at 

is an vngoodly gise ; — 
Other tacches^ as towchynge / y spare not to 

myspraue aftwr myne aviso, — 

1 ? shorewi8e,]a8 shores. * Schore, undar settynge of a |7yiige |7at 
volde falle.' P. Parr. Bu. Sehooren^ To Under-prop. Alkr eaehays. 
To shale, stradle, goe crooked, or wide betweene the feet, or legs. 
Cotgrare. 

2 Dutch Sehrobben, To Rubb, to Scrape, to Scratch. Hexham. 
' lettyn vemo. P. Parv. Mr Way quotes from Palsgrave, 

" I iettey I make a countenaunce with my legges, U me iamboyey** 
&c. ; and from Cotgrave, " lamboyer, to iety or wantonly to go in 
and out with the legs/' &c. * grinding. 

• gnastyn (gnachyn) Fremo^ 8trideo. Catholicon. Gnastyng of 
the tethe — strtdevr, ffrineement, Palsg. Du. gnUteren^ To Gnash, 
or Creake with the teeth. Hexham. 

< Short coats and tight trousers were a great offence to old 
writers accustomed to long nightgown clothes. Compare Chaucer's 
complaint in the Canterbury Tales, The Parsones Tale, De Superbtd^ 
p. 193, col. 2, ed. Wright. " Upon that other syde, to speke of the 
horrible disordinat scantnes of clothing, as ben these cuttid sloppis 
or anslets, that thurgh her schortnes ne coyereth not the schamful 
membre of man, to wickid entent. Alas ! som men of hem schewen 
the schap and the boce of the horrible swollen membres, that semeth 
like to the maladies of himia, in the wrapping of here hose, and 
eek the buttokes of hem, that faren as it were the hinder part of a 
sche ape in the frdle of the moone." The continuation of the 
passage is yery curious. '* Toure schort gownys thriffclesse " are 
also noted in the song in Harl. MS. 372. See Weste, Booke of 
Betneanour, 1. 141, below. 

' Fr. taehej spot, staino, blemish, reproach. C. 



lOHN BUSSELL8 SOKE OF NURTURK 137 

vfhefi he okaHe serue his mastir, before hym ofi before yoar 
>e table hit lyea ; °^**'- 

308 Euery souereyne of sadnes * alle suche sort shalle 
dispise. 

Many moo condicions a mafi myght fynde / paA Many other 

- . improprieties 

now ar named here, 
berfore Euery honest seniand / avoyd alle thoo, & » good eervmnt 

will avoid.* 

worshippe lat hym leere. 
Panter, yoman of J>e Cellere, butlere, A Ewere, 
312 y wille pai ye obeye to pQ marshalle, Severe, & 
kervere.* " 



teach 
earve^ 



** fH ood syr, y yow pray j)e connynge • of kervynge 'sir, pray 

\X -n i^ T_ me how to 

ye wille me teche, 
and fe fayre handlynge of aknyfe, y yow beseche, handle a knifiB, 
and alle wey where y shalle alle maner fowles / 
breke, vnlace, or seche,* 
316 and with Fysche or flesche, how shalle y demene flah, and flesh/ 
me wft^eche." 

Son, thy knyfe must be bryght, fayre, & clene, 
and J)ynehande«fairewasche,it wold fewelle besene. 
hold alwey thy knyfe sure, py self not to tene, « Hold your knife 
320 and passe not ij. fyngurs & a thombeon thy knyfe ^^iT^r*' 
so kene ; "^'^"^ 

In mydde wey of thyne hande set the ende of pe in yoar midpaim. 

haft Sure, 
Vnlasynge&mynsynge.ij. fyngurs wMpethombe/ do your carving, 

fat may ye endure, 
kervynge / of bred leiynge / voydynge / of cromes ]^ yoar bread, 

& trenchewre, J^S^«, with 

324 wzt^ij.fyngursandathombe/lokeyehauepeCure. twoflngeraand 



> sobriety, gravity. 

» Edward IV. had * Bannerettes IIII, or Bacheler Knights, to 
be kervers and cnpberers in this courte.' If. Ord.y p. 32. 

* MS. comynge. 

* See the Termea of a Keruer in Wynkyn de Worde's Boke of 
Keruyng$ below. 



138 



HOW TO GARVfi, AND TO LAT TRENCHERS. 



Never toodi 
others' food with 
your right hand, 

bat oiklj with the 
left. 



[FoL175bu] 



Don't dirty your 

Uble 

or wipe your 

knives on it. 



Tskealoefof 
trencliers, and 



with the edge of 
your Imife raise 
a trencher, and 
lay it before your 
lord; 



lay foar trenchers 
four-square, 

and another on 
the top. 

Take a loaf of 
light bread. 



pare the edges. 



Sett nener oft fysche nor flesch^ / beest / nor fowle, 

trewly, 
Moora ))afi ij. fyngars and a thombe, for )>at is 

curtesie. 
Touche neuer with jonre right hande no maner 

mete surely, 
328 but with your lyf t bande / as y seid afora, for pat 

is goodlye. 

Alle-wey with youre lift hand hold yowr loof with 

myght, 
and hold youre knyfe Sura, as y haue geue yow sight 
enbrewe* not youre table / for J>afi ye do not lyght, 
332 ne J>er-vppofl ye wipe youre knyfle*, but oft youre 
napkyft plight. 

Fuist take a loofe of trenchuis in fj Ml hande, 
])afi take fj table knyfe,* as y haue seid afore 

hande ; 
wit^ the egge of fe knyfe youre trenchers vp be 

ye reysande 
336 as nyghe fe poynt as ye may, to-fow youre lord hit 

leyande ; 

right so .iiij. trenchers oofi by Rruothur .iiij. square 

ye sett, 
and yppoft po trenchurs .iiij. a trenchur sengle 

vriih-oMt lett ; 
]>aft take youre loof of light payne / as y haue said 

3ett, 
340 and with the egge of j)e knyfe nyghe your hand ye 

kett. 

Purst pare fe quarters of the looiF round alle 
ar-bowt, 



> to embrew. Ferrum tingere aatiguine. Baret. 

* The table-knife, * Mensal knyfe, or borde knyfe, Mensalia* 
P. Parr., mis, I suppose, a lighter knife than the trencher-knife 
used for catting trenchers off very stale coarse loaves. 



lOHN RUSSELLS SOKE OF NUBTUBE. 189 

J>aii kutt pe vpper crust / for jovue souerayne, & cut the upper 

. ., , cniBt for your 

to DJID. aiOWt. lord. 

Suffers your^ parell^ * to stond stille to pe botom / 
& so nyje y-spend owt, 
844 so ley liym of J>e cromes* a quarter of J>e looif SaujiC3 
dowt ; 

Touclie neuer be loof aftwr lie is so tamed, aiidd<m*tt<«ch 

put it, [on] a platers or pe almes disch per-ioie trimmed. 

named. 
Make clene yourc bord euer, J>aa ahaHe ye not be KeepyourtaWe 

blamed, 
348 paA may pe sewers his lord Berne [ & neythi^r of 

yow be gramed'. 



im>m. 



InMoeatOMUUt, 







f alle maner met69 ye must thus know & fele Toa must know 
])e fdmositees of fysch^flesche, <fc fowlea dyuars indigesubie^ 
& feele, 
And alle maner of Sawce* for fische & flesche to and what saucee 

are irholesome. 

preserue yot*r lord in heele \ 
352 to yow it behouyth to know alle fese euery deele." 

" Cyt, hertyly y pray yow for to telle me Certenle 
of how many metea J>at ar fumose in ]>eire 
degre" 

Xn certeyfi, my soil, ])at sone shalle y shew the These things are 
356 by letturs dyuers toldc by thries thre, °^^ *' 

£ ' A' and S / in dyuerse tyme and tyde 

£ is ])e furst / ])at is, Fatt^ Farsed, & Fried ; Fatand Fried, 

A, raw / resty, and rechy, ar comberot^ yndefied ; Baw and Beety, 

360 S / Jalt / BowTc / and sowse* / alle snche J)Ow set Sait and soar, 
arside, 

> ? Fr. paml, A match or fellow. C. ' MS. may be coomea. 
' A.S. gramian^ to anger. * Sowce mete, St4ecidium. P. Parr. 



140 



FUliOSITEES. KEBUYNG OF FLE8H. 



alio Binewt, sUn, 
hair, feathers, 
cropfli 



heads, 
plnloDS, ftc. 



oataidesofthigh^ 
skins: 



these destroj 
yoar lord's rest.* 



"Thanks, fiOher, 



ni put yoar 
teaching into 
practice^ 

and pray foe yon. 



Bat please 



tell me hotr to 
carve fish and 
ilesh.' 



wiih other of the same sort, and lo thus ar thay, 
Senowis, skynnes / heere / Cropyns* / yonge feduis 

for certefi y say, 
heedis / pynnyns, boonis / alle f ese pyke away, 
364 Suffir neuer fy souerayne / to fele fern, y the pray / 

AUe maner l^gis also, bothe of fowle and beestis, 
the vttur side of the thyghe or legge of alle fowlis 

in feestt9, 
the fumosite of alle man^ skynnes y 'promjtt ^ 

by heestis, 
368 alk Jjese may benym ' f y souerayne / from many 

nyghtw restw." 

" Tffow fayrc befalls yow fadur / &welle must ye 

*^. cheve,' 
For these poyntes by practik y hope fulle welle to 

preve, 
and yet shallfl y pray for yow / dayly while J>at y 
leue/ 
372 bothe for body and sowle / j)at god yow gyde from 
greve; 

Praynge yow to take it, fadur / for no displesure, 
yf y durst desire more / and pat y myghte be sure 
to know pQ kervynge of fischa & flesche/ aftur 
cocker cure : 
376 y hed leuer pQ sight of that / thaft A Scarlet hure."* 



Canrtng <^ Meat. 



Cat bravm on the 
dish, and lift 



^mm jff iH • 



« 



Bon, take Jjy knyfe as y taught J^e whileere, 
kut brayne in pe dische r^t as hit liethe there, 

' ? Crop or crawe, or cropon of a beste (croupe or cropon), 
Clunit, P. Pary. Crops are emptied before birds are cooked. 

> A.S. beniman, take away, deprive. 

3 Fr. aehever, To atcbieue ; to end, finish. Cot. 

* Hwyr, cappe (hure H.), IVfw. A.S. hufi, a tiara, ornament. 
Promptorium Parr. 



lOHN RUSSELLS SOKE OF NUBTUBB. 141 

and to pY souereynes trenchoura / with ]tQ Isnjfe / iiioet off with 
ye hit here : ^^^ 

380 pare fe fatt per-from / be ware of hide & heere. 

Thafl whan ye haue it so y-leid / oft py lorde* tren- 

choure, 
looke ye haue good mustarde J>er-to and good *^l^^^ 

liconre ; 
Fatt venesouTi vith frumenty / hit is a gay venisonwith 

plesewTc 
384 youre souerayne to serue with in sesoun to his 

honowre : 

Towche not be vemsoun wiiJi no hare hand Touch vmuon 

only with your 

but withe py knyfe ; pis wise shalle ye be doande, imiiiB, 
withe pe fore part of pe knyfe looke ye be hit parand, p»" **» 
388 xij. draughte* with pe egge of pe knyfe pe venison °"*" ** ^^ ^* 
crossande. 

Thafi whail ye pat venesou7» so haue chekkid hit, [Foi. i7«b.] 
with pe fore parte of youre knyfe / pat ye hit owt «** •?*** ^*» 

kytt, Ainnily aoup. 

In pe frumenty potage honestly ye convey hit, 
3D2 in pe same forme w^-t^^ pesyfl & bakeil wha£L sesoun 
per-to dothe sitt. 

Withe youre lift hand touche beefif / Chyne* / Touch 6cf/ with 

your 16(1 hand, 

motoun, as is a^fore said, 
& pare hit clene or pat ye kerve / or hit to your pare it dean, 

lord be layd ; 
and as it is showed afore / beware of vpbrayde ; 
396 alle fumosite, salt / senow / Eaw / a-side be hit pntaimy'the 

convayde. 

In sirippe / partriche / stokdove / & chekyns, in partridoes, Ac. : 

take up 

seruynge, *^ 

wiih jour lifft hand take pern by pe pynob of pe by um pinion, 
whynge, 



1 Cbyne, of bestys bakke. i^tVta. P. Parr. 



142 HOW TO CABYS LABOB BOAST BIBDS, SWAN, CAPOK, &0. 

& fat same with J>e fore parte of fe knyfebe ye vp 
reiynge, 
and minoe them 400 Mjiise hem smalla in pe sirapp^ : of fumosite algate 
■irrup. be ye f eerynge. 

Lu««r TOMt Good sofi, of alle fowles rosted y telle yow as y Cafi, 

•8ttSo«pr«»,4o, Every goos/ teele / Mallard / Ospray / & also 

swanne, 

SftoS. ti^^S ^y®® ^ f^ ^®Sgis o^ all« fese furst, y sey the thafl, 

'^^'^^ 404 afifti*r fat, Jje whynge* large & rownd / fail dare 

blame f e no man ; 

i«j fho body in Lay the body in mydde« of f e dische / or in a-nodur 

the middle. chargere, 

with the wings of Yche of f ese with whyngeff in mydde^, fe legged 

^^diegeroondif 80 aftir there. 

of alle fese in .Tj. lees ' / if fat ye • wille, ye may 
vppe arere, 
in the same dish. 408 & ley f em betwone f e legged, & f e whynge^ in f o 

same platere. 

capona: Capofi, & hen of hawt grees', fus wold fey be 

dight : — 
ukeoffthe wings Furst, vn-lace fe whynges, fe legge^ fan in sight, 

pour on ale or Cast ale or wyne oil feill, as fer-to belongeth of 

^"^ ryght, 

minoe them into 412 & mynse fem fan in to f e sawce wit^ powdurs 

theflayoored ^ « . . 

aaace. Kcne of myght. 

Take capoun or hefi so enlased, & devide ; 
otTeyoar lord the take f e lift whynge ; in f e sawce mynce hit euen 

'""^' beside, 

andif he want it, and yf yourc souerayne ete sanerly / & haue ferto 

appetide, 
the right one too. ^1^ f^fl mynce fat ofur whynge fer-to to satisfye hyfil 

fat tyde. 



> alicea, atripa. « MS. tnay be yo. 

> * De haute graiase^ Full, plampe, goodlie, fat, well-fed, in good 
liking.* Cotgrave. 



lOHN BUS8ELLS BOKE OF NURTURE. 143 

Feysaunt, partriche, plouer, & lapewynk, y yow pAaumcf. te. : 

say, 
areyse * J>e whynge* furst / do as y yow pray ; tak«offth« wing«. 

In ])e discha forth^^withe, boj)e bat ye ham lay, <ii«h. 
420 ])afi afbur ])at / pe leggus / w/tAout lengur delay. 

wodcok / Betowrc* / Egret* / Snyte* / and Curlew, woodooek$, 
heyrounsew* / resteratiff fey ar / & so is the brewe f Henmshawa, 
J>ese .vy. fowles / must be vnlaced, y telle yow 

trew, 
424 breke j>e pynons / nek, & beek, J>us ye must J>em break the pinjom^ 

shew. 

Thus ye must fem vnlace / & in thus manere : ^^^ ^77.] 

areyse fe leggis / suffire j^eire feete stille to be oik cat off the lege, 

there, 
J>afl J>e whyngetf in J>e dische / ye may not J>em *>»•" *>>• ^^*»«^ 

forbere, 

* Ft. arraeher. To root Yp . . pull away by violence. Cotgrave. 
> The Bittern or Bittour, Ardea SteUaris, 

^ EgretU^ as Aigrette; A foule that resembles a Heron. 
Aigrette (A foule yerie like a Heron, but white) ; a criell Heron, or 
dwarfe Heron. Cot Ardea alba, A crieUe or dwarfe heron. Cooper. 

^ Snype, or snyte, byrde, Ibex, P.P. A snipe or suite : a bird 
lesse than a woodcocke. Gallinago minor, &c. Baret. 

^ A small Heron or kind of Heron ; Shakspere's editors' hand' 
$aw. The spelling heronehaw misled Cotgraye, &c. ; he has JSat* 
rotmiere* A herons neast, or ayrie ; a A^nt^shaw, or shaw of wood, 
wherein herons breed. * An Hearne. Ardea. A heamsew, Ardeola' 
Baret, 1580. ' Fr. heroneeau, a young heron, giyes E. heronshata,* 
Wedgwood. I cannot find heroneeau, only heronneau. < A yong 
hereneew is lyghter of dygestyon than a crane. A. Borde. ^egy- 
mmt, fol. F i, ed. 1567. ' In actual application a hertmehaw^ 
hemehaw or henuew, is simply a Common Heron (Ardea Vulgaris) 
with no distinction as to age, &c.' Atkinson. 

* The Brewe is mentioned three times, and each time in con- 
nection with the Curlew. I belieye it to be the Whimbrel {Numeni' 
ua Phaopue) or Half Curlew. I haye a recollection (or what seems 
like it) of haying seen the name with a French form like Whim- 
breau. [Pennant's British Zoology, ii. 347, gives Le petit Courly^ 
ou le CourlieUy as the French synonym of the Whimbrel.] Morris 
(Orpen) says the nnmbcis of the Whimbrel are lessening from their 
being sought as food. Atkinson. 



144 



HOW TO CARVE THE CRANE, PAWN, VENISON, &C. 



lay the body be- 
tween them. 



Cyone: take off the 
whiga, bat not 

the trompe in his 
breast. 



Ptaeoek$, Ac: 

carve like yoa do 
the Crane, 

keeping their 
feet on. 



Quaili, larks» 
pigeons: 



give year lord the 
legsflrst. 



Fawn : aerve Uie 
kidu<7 flnty 

then a rib. Pick 
the (yxfax oat of 
the neck. 



Ptg: L ahoolder, 
2. rib. 



428 ^e body ]>afi in ]te middes laid / like as y yow 
leere. 

The Crane is a fowle / pat stronge la with to fare ; 
J>e whynge* ye areyse / fulle large evyn thare; 
of hyre trompe ' in pe brest / loke pat ye beware. 
432 towche not hir trompe / euermore pat ye spare. 

Pecok / Stork / Bustarde / & Shovellewre, 

ye must vnlace pem in pe plite * / of pe crane prest 

& pure, 
so pat vche of pem haue peyre feete aftwr my cure, 
436 and euer of a sharpe knyff wayte pat ye be sure. 

Of quayle / sparow / larke / & litelle / meHinet, 
pygeoun / swalow / thrusche / osulle / ye not for- 

gete, 
pe legges to ley to yo?^r souereyne ye ne lett, 
440 and afturward pe whyngus if Ids lust be to ete. 

Off Fowefi / kid / lambe, / pe kydney furst it lay, 
))aa lifft vp the shuldur, do as y yow say, 
Jiff he wille perof ete / a rybbe to hym convay ; 
444 but in pe nek pe fyxfax* pat pow do away. 

venesoun rost / in pe dische if youre soucrayne hit 

chese, 
pe shiddir of a pigge furst / paa a rybbe, yf hit 

wiUe hym plese ; 



' " The singular stnictare of the windpipe and its convolutions 
lodged between tbetwo plates of bone forming the sides of the keel 
of the sternum of this bird (the Crane) have long been known. 
The trachea or windpipe, quitting the neck of the bird, passes 
downwards and backwards between the branches of the merry- 
thought towards the inferior edge of the keel, which is hollowed 
out to receive it. Into this groove the trachea passes, . . . and 
after making three turns passes again forwards and upwards and 
ultimately backwards to be attached to the two lobes of the lungs." 
Tarrell, Brit, Birds ii. 441. Atkinson. 

» "Way, manner. Plyte or state (plight, P.). Status, P. Parv. 

3 A sort of gristle, the tendon of the neck. Germ, flaehse^ 
Brockett. And see Whcatley's Diet, of Bedaplicated Words. 



lOHN BUS8ELL8 BOKE OF NURTURE. 145 

J)e cony, ley hym oil J)e bak in J)e disch, if he haue stOMf: i«y him 

ODhiibftokj 

grece, 
448 while ye par awey J)e skyfl on vche side / & J)afl pu« off hu skin; 
breke hym or y[e] sece 

betwene J)e hyndur leggw breke fe canelle boofl,* J^^^*^**" 
])afi with youre knyfe areyse J)e sides alonga J)e dofwneMhsideof 

chyne Alone ; <» hi« beiiy, 

so lay yot^r cony wombelonga vche side to |>e 

chyne / by craft as y conne, 
452 betwene |>e bulke, chyne, ]^ side^ to-gedura lat pem 

be doofl ; 

The .y. sides departe from J)e chyne, J)us is my wiwmrte the rid«8 

ftooi thfl chine, 

loore, 
J)en ley bulke, chyne, & sides, to-gedir« / as fey patthemtogether 

were yore. 
Furst kit owte be nape in be nek / be shuldurs eattinvoatUM 

, ^ r x- r I r luipeofUwneck; 

before ; 
456 vfiih fe sides serve youre souerayne / hit state to gtwyowriord 
restore. 

Rabette« sowkers,* J)e furjer parte ^fipom J)e hyndur, ^'^J*^"^'** 

ye devide ; 
J)aft J>e hyndur part at tweyfl ye kut J)at tyde, **» "»* p^ 

pare ])e skyfl away / & let it not ]mre abide, ikin ao, 

460 ^fl serue youre souerayne of fe same / pe deynteist JJtfrOTT^riS- 

of ])e side. 

MM [Tol. 177 5.] 

Alie maner & forme of kervynge of mete^ bat byfi sachbthe w»y 

* " ofowtnggiXMB 

groos, 
afftur my symplenes y haue shewed, as y suppose : 
yet, good soil, amonge oper estates euer as J^ow goose, 

^ The * canelle boon ' between the hind lege must be the pelvis, 
or pelyic arch, or elm the ilium or haunch-bone : and in catting up 
the rabbit many good carvers customarily disjoint the haunch-bones 
before helping any one to the rump. Atkinson. 

* Rabet, yonge conye, CunieeUua. P. Panr. ' The Conie beareth 
her Bdbettet xxx dayes, and then kindeleth, and then she must be 
bucked againe, for els she will eate yp hir Jtabett. 1575. Geo. 
Turbervile, The Booke of Yenerie, p. 178, ch. 63.'— H. H. Gibbs. 

10 



146 



HOW TO CABVE LARGB AND SMALL BIRD^ 



Cat Mcb piece 
Into four illooi (?) 
for your master to 
dip in his Mace. 



OrUiseblidir 
wings. 



pnt only three 
Uts at once in the 



OfsnuUbiitU' 
wings. 



■crape the fleah to 
the end of the 

6one, 

and pnt it on 
your lord's 
trencher. 



464 as ye ae / and by vse of youre self /"ye may gete 
yow loos. 

But fur^ermoie enforme yow y must in metis 

kervynge ; 
Mynse ye must iiij lees ' / to ooii morselle hangynge, 
fsi youi6 mastir may take with .\j. fynguis in his 

sawce dippynge, 
468 and so no napkyfi / brest, ne borclothe', in any wise 

enbrowynge. 

Of gret fowle / in to ^e sawce mynse j^e whynge 

this wise ; 
pas not .iij. morcelle^ in pe sawc6 at onis, as 

y yow avise ; 
To youre souerayne fe gret fowles legge ley, as is ])e 

gise, . 
472 and ^us mowe ye neuer mysse of alle connynge 

seruise. 

Of sUb maner smale brydd2<9, ])e whyngts oii fe 

trencher leyinge, 
with J)e poynt of youre knyfe / J)e flesch^ to ^e 

boofl end ye brynge, 
and so conveye hit oii pe trenchere, pat wise your 

souerayne plesynge, 
476 and with faire salt & trenchoure / hym also oft 

renewynge. 



How to carve 
BaksdUeaU, 



Open hot onea at 
the top of the 
cnistk 



"^nk mtis.* 



Almanere bakemete« put byfl good and hoot, 
Opefl hem aboue pe brym of pe coffyiL ^ cote, 

^ slices, or rather strips. ' board-cloth, table-cloth. 

• Part IV. of Ziher Cure Oocorum^ p. 38 — 42, is • of bakunmete.' 
On Dishes and Courses generally, see Bandle Hohne, Bk. III. Chap. 
III. p. 77—86. 

* rcre a eofyn of flowre so fire. Z. C C, p. 88, 1. 8. The crust 
of a raised pie. 



lOHN RU88ELLS BOKE OF NURTURE. 147 

and all6 f&i byfi cold / & lusteth joxme sou^reyil to ooid onei 
note, 
480 alwey in ]>e mydway opefi hem ye mote. in the middle. 

Of capon, chikefl, or teele, in coffyfl bake, Take Teai.&a. out 

*^ ' ' ' "^ ' of their pie, 

Owt of J)e pye farst fat ye liem take, 

In a dische besyde / J>at ye J)e whyngus slake, *nd mince their 

484 thynk' y-mynsed in to fe same with jour knyfe ye 
slake, 

And stere welle J)e stuff fer-m vriih J>e poynt of "tothegmvyin; 

yowr knyfe ; 
Mynse ye tbynne J>e whyng/«, be it in to veele or 

byffe ; 
vfith a spone ligbtely to ete your soucrayne may yooriord may eat 

be leeff, 
488 So wiiJi suche diet as is holsom he may lengthe 

his life. 

V[Pol. 178.] 
enesou72 bake, of boor or othxir venure, £*the wllfc?* **^' 

Kut it in ])e pastey, & ley hit ofi his trenchur^. 
Pygeon bake, pe leggw leid to yonre lord sure, 
492 Custard,* chekkid buche,^ square with J)e knyfe ; ^Il^^uf i" 
fus is J)e cure *^•• 

' for thin ; see line 486. 

2 ? A dish of batter somewhat like our Yorkshire Padding ; not 
the Onutade or pie of chickens, pigeons, and small birds of the House' 
hold Ordinances, p. 442, and Crostate of flesshe of L^w Cursy p. 40. - 

* ? buche de bois. A logge, backe stocke, or great billet. Got. 
I suppose the buehe to refer to the manner of eheekertng the cus- 
tard, buche-wisef and not to be a dish. Venison is ' chekkid,' I. 
888-9. This rendering is confirmed by The Boke of Keruyng^s 
<'Custarde, chcke them inch square" (in Eeruynge of Flesshe). 
Another possible rendering of bi^he as a dish of batter or the like, 
seems probable from the *• Bouce Jane, a dish in Ancient Cookery ' 
("Wright's Pro?!' Dicty ), but the recipe for it in JBtousehold Ordin- 
ances, p. 431, shows that it was a stew, which could not be 
checkered or squared. It consisted of milk boiled with chopped 
herbs, half-roasted chickens or capons cut into pieces, ' pynes and 
raysynges of corance,' all boiled together. In Household Ordin^ 
aneesj p. 162-4, Bouehe, or Bouehe of court, is used for allowance. 
The ' Knights and others of the King's Councell,' &c., had each 

10* 



148 



HOW TO OARVE DOWGETES AND PAYNE PUFF. 



Dowoete: pare 
awft7 the sidee ; 

■enre In a 
■awoer. 



Payne-puff r pare 
the bottom, 
cut off the top. 

(?pamey8) 



Fried things are 
indigestible. 



J)afl pe souerayne, with his spone whan he lustethe 

to ete. 
of dowcetcs,* pare awey the sides to J)e botom, & 

fat ye lete, 
In a sawcere afore youre souerayne semely ye hit sett 
496 whafl hym Hkethe to atast : looke ye not forgete. 

Payne puff,' pare febotom nyje fe stuff, take hede, 

Kut of J>e toppe of a payne puff, do thus as y rede ; 

Also pety perueys * be fayre and clene / so god be 

youre spede. 

500 off Fryed mete«* be ware, for fey ar Fumose in dede. 

'for their Boueh in the morning one chet loafe, one manchet, one 
gallon of ale ; for aftemoone, one manchett, one gallon of ale ; 
for after sapper, one manchett, &c.' 

1 See the recipe, p. 60 of this volame. In Sir John Howard's 
Honsehold Books is an entry in 1467, 'for viij boshelles of flour 
for dowaetes TJ s. viij d.' p. 396, ed. 1841. 

» The last recipe in The Forme of Cury, p. 89, is one for Payn 
Faff, but as it refers to the preceding receipt, that is given first 
here. xx 

THE PETT TXRVAJJim,* IX.XV.[aB=195] 

Take male Marow. hole parade, and kerue it rawe ; powdour of 
Gyngur, yolku of Ayren^, datM mynced, raisons of corance, salt a 
lytel, & loke fat f on make f y past with 3olkes of Ayren, & fat no 
waUr come f erto ; and fourme f y coffyn, and make up f y past. 

XX 

PAYN PUPP 1X.XVI[=196] 

Eodem modo fait payn puff, but make it more tendre f^ past, and 
loke \>e past be rounde of f e payn puf as a coffyn & a pye. 

Handle Holme treats of Pufe, Puffs, and Pains, p. 84, col. 1, 2, 
but does not mention Fayn Puff. * Payn puffe, and pety-pettys, 
and cQspis and douccttis,' are mentioned among the last dishes 
of a service on Flessh-Day {S. Ord., p. 450), but no recipe for 
either is given in the book. 

3 In lines 707, 748, the pety perueys come between the fish 
and pasties. I cannot identify them as fish. I suppose they were 
pies, perhaps The Fety Feruaunt of note 2 above ; or better still, 
the fish-pies, Fetipetee (or pety-pettys of the last note), which 
Handle Holme says *■ are Pies made of Carps and Eels, first roasted, 
and then minced, and with Spices made up in Pies.' 

^ De cibi elecctbne. (Sloane MS. 1986, fol. 59 b, and else* 
where.) " Frixa nocent, elixa fouent, assata cohercent." 

• Glossed Fetypanel, a Marehpayne. Leland, Coll. vi. p. 6. Pcgge. 



lOHN RUSSELLS SOKE OF NURTURE. 



149 



JfritJr m\is. 



FrutuM viant* / Frutur sawge,* byfl good / P<»ch©d-eK (n 

hettur is Ymtur powche ;* 
Appulle fruture* / is good hoot / but fe cold ye not 

towche. 
Tansey* is good hoot / els cast it not in youre TwiMTbgood 

clowche. 
504 allemaner of leessej * / ye may forbere / herbere in i>on"t«t 

yow none sowche. 
Cook«9 with yeire newe cowceyte*, choppynge / "^ 

stampynge, & gryndynge, 
Many new curies / allc day ^ey ar contryvynge 

& Fyndynge 
fat provokethe pe peple to perellc* of passage/ 

frouj peyne soore pyndynge, 
508 & ])rou3 nice excesse of suche receytes / of pQ 

life to make a endynge. 

Some wtt^ Sireppis * / Sawces / Sewes,* and Bjmp^ 

soppes/ 



GookB are ftlwaji 



invantlng new 
diriiM 

that tempt people 



and endanger 
their Uvea: 



1 Meat, sage, & poached, fritters ? ' Recipe in Z. Oure^ p. 39. 

' There is a recipe * for a Tansy Cake ' in Lib. C, p. 60. 
Cogan says of TansiSf — " it auoideth fleume. . . Also it kiUeth 
worms, and pargeth the matter whereof they be engendred. 
Wherefore it is mach Tsed among vs in England, about Easter, 
with fried Egs, not without good cause, to purge away the fleume 
engendred of fish in Lent season, whereof worms are soone bred in 
them that be thereto disposed." Tansey, says Bailey {Diet. 
DomssHeum) is recommended for the dissipating of wind in the 
stomach and belly. He giyes the recipe for *A Tansy' made 
of spinage, milk, cream, eggs, grated bread and nutmeg, heated 
till it's as thick as a hasty pudding, and then baked. 

* Slices or strips of meat, &c., in sauce. See note to I. 516, 
p. 150. 

* Recipe ' For Sirup/ Liber Cure, p. 43, and * Syrip for a Capon 
or Faysant,' JT. Ord. p. 440. 

* potages, soups. 

f Soppes in Fenell, Slitte Soppes, if. Ord. p. 445. 



150 



POTAOES, 



Comedies, 

JeUiei, thftt itop 

the bowels. 
Some dtahei are 



prepMed with un- 
clarifled honey. 



Oow-heels snd 
Oalyee' feet an 
sometimes mixed 

with onsngared 
leches and Jellies. 



Comedies / Cawdelle«^ cast in Cawdrons / 

ponnes, or pottes, 
leesses/Ielies^ / Fruturs /fried mete ))at stoppes 
512 and distemperethe alle ^e body, bothe bak, 

bely, & roppes :' 

Some maner cury of Cooker ciaflft Sotelly y 

bane espied, 
bow feire discbmete^ ar dressid wtt/i bony not 

claryfied. 
Cow beelis / and Calves fete / ar dere y-bou3t 

some tide 
516 To medille amonge leecbes* & lebes / wbaii 

suger sballe syt a-side. 






^fltagM/ 



[Fo1.178b.] 



Furmitjwlth 
▼eoiaon. 



iNf ortus with an benne / Cony / beef, or els aa 

baard, 
Frumenty^ with venesoun / pesyfl wi't^ bakoii, 

long6 worte^ not spar^ ; 
Growelle of force^ / Gravelle of beeff®/ or motoun, 

baue ye no care ; 

^ Recipe for a Cawdel, Z. C, (7. p. 51. 

' Recipes for Gele in Chekyns or of Hennes, and Gele of 
Flesshe, J7. Ord, p. 437. 

s A.S. roppaSf the bowels. 

« *' leeche '* is a slice or strip, K. Ord. p. 472 (440), p. 456 
(399) — 'cnt hit on lechea as hit were pescoddes,' p. 439, -^and also 
a stew or dish in which strips of pork, &c., are cooked. See 
Leche Lnmbarde, if. Ord. p. 438-9. Fr. lesche, a long slice or 
shine of bread, &c. Cot. JECie Usca Ae^ scywe (shiye or slice), 
Wright's Vocab. p. 198 : hec Usea^ a schyfe, p. 241. See also 
Mr Way's long note 1, Prompt. Parv., p. 292, and the recipes for 
64 different " Leche vjanndys" in MS. HarL 279, that he refers to. 

* For Potages see Part T. of Liber Cure Ooeorum^ p. 7 — 27. 

* Recipe for Potage de Fmmenty in H*. Ord. p. 425, and for 
Fnrmente in Liber Cure^ p. 7, if. Ord, 462. 

f Recipe * For grnel of fors,' Lib. C. p. 47, and JT. Ord. p. 425. 

* ? minced or powdered beef: Fr. graveliey small grauell or 
sand. Cot. * Powdred motonn/ 1. 533, means sprinkled, salted. 



lOHN RUSSELLS BOKB OP NURTTniB. 151 

520 Grely, mortrows* / creyme of almonde^, fe mylke' mortrew«e. 
fer-ot is good fare. 

lusselle'^ tarilett^ cabag6<<^ & nombles^ of jnneii. &e.. are 

good. 

vennure,^ 
alld fese potages ar good and sure. 

of oper sewes & potages pat ar not made by nature, other oatof-th©- 
524 alle Suche siropis sett a side youre heere to endure, "etaaide. 

AoWy sofi, y haue yow shewid somewhat of myne Sochisa 

avise, 
fe service of a flesclie feest folowynge englondis SStohwv.**** 

gise; 
Forgete ye not my loore / but looke ye bere good 

yjes 
528 vppoii ofur connynge kervers : now haue y told 

yow twise. 



^mct Satom.8 



A Iso to know youre sawces for flesche conveni- saucee provoke 

ently, 
hit proYokithe a fyne apetide if sawce youre a fine avpetite. 

mete be bie ; 
to the lust of youre lord looke |>at ye haue |>er Haverradr 

redy 

' Recipes for < Mortrewes de Chare,' lib. C. p. 9 ; ' of fysslie,* p. 
19 ; blanched, p. 13 ; and IT. Ord. pp. 438, 454, 470. 

* Batter of Almonde my\ke,' Lib, a p. 15; ff, Ord. p. 447, 

' See the recipe, p. 58 of this Tolame. 

^ Recipe for Tartlotet in Lib. C. C. p. 41. 

' Recipe for Cabaehea in JET. Ord. p. 426, and eaboeheSf p. 454, 
both the yegetable. There ia a fish caboeh$ in the 15th cent. 
Nominale in Wright's Vocab. Hie caputs ^«. Caboche, p. 189, 
col. 1, the bullhead, or miller's thumb, called in French ehaiboU 

B See two recipes for Nombuls in Liber Cure, p. 10, and for 
< Nombuls of a Dere,' in S, Ord. p. 427. 

"^ The long r and curl for e in the MS. look like f, as if for 
vennuf. 

^ For Sauces {Salsatnenta) see Part II. of Liber Cure, p. 27 — 34. 



152 



THE SAUCES FOR DIFFERENT DISHES. 



Miutardfor 
brawn, ^, 

Yeijnice for real, 

Clttwdonfor 
CTgnot and twaa. 



Oarlie, Ac, for 
beef and goose, 



Ginger for fltwn. 



Mnttardand 
■agar for 
pheaiantk Ac., 

Oamelynfor 
heronaew, fto.. 

Sugar and Salt 
for brew, Ac., 



532 suclie sawce as hym liketh^ / to make hym glad & 
mery. 
Mustard * is meete for brawne / beef, or powdred* 

motoun ; 
verdius • to boyled capoun / veel / chikefi /or bakoii ; 
And to signet / & swafi, conyenyent is ])e 
cbawdofi * ; 

536 Boost beeff / & goos / with garlek, vinegre, or 
pepur, in coTsclusioun. 

Gynger sawce* to lambe, to kyd / pigge, or 

fawfl / in fere ; 
to feysand, partricbe, or cony / Mustard -with f e 

sugur6 ; 
Sawce gamelyn ^ to heyroflnsewe / egret / crane / 

& plovere ; 
540 also / brewe^ / Curlew / sugre & salt / wit^ 

waters of pe ryvere ; 

^ Becipe ' for lumbardos Mustard ' ia-Ziber Cure^ p. 30. 

* Fleshe poudred or salted. Caro aaUoj vel aalita. Withals. 

' The juice of unripe grapes. See Maiaon Rustiqm, p. 620. 

^ Chaudwyn, 1. 688 below. See a recipe for '* Chaudern for 
Swannes" in Hoiuehold Ordinancet, p. 441 ; and for *^)»andon 
(MS. ohaudon *) for wylde digges, swannus and piggos," in Liber 
Ourey p. 9, and *' Sawce for swannus/' Ibid, p. 29. It was made 
of chopped liTer and entraiU boiled with blood, bread, wine, 
yinegar, pepper, cloves, and ginger. 

' See the recipe " To make Gynger Sause *' in J7. Ord. p. 441, 
and '* For sawce ganger," Z. C, C. p. 52. 

^ No doubt the '* sawce fyne |>at men calles camelyne " of Zib&r 
Curef p. 30, * raysons of corouns,' nuts, bread crusts, cIotos, gin- 
ger, cinnamon, powdered together and mixed with vinegar. 
** Camelin, sauce cameline, A certaine daintie Italian sauce." Cot. 

7 A bird mentioned in Archaohgia^ ziii. 341. Hall. See note 
1.422. 

« Sloane 1986, p. 48, or fol. 27 b. It is not safe to differ from 
Mr idorria, but on comparing the C of * Chaudon for swannw,' 
coL 1, with that of * Caudell^ of almonde,' at the top of the second 
col., I have no doubt that the letter is C, So on fol. 31 b. the C 
of Chaudon is more like the C of Charlet opposite than the T of 
Take under it. The C of Caudel dalmon on fol. 34 b., and that of 
OuitelliSf fol. 24, 1. 5, are of the same shape. 



lOHN BUSSELLS SOKE OF KUBTURE. 153 

Also for bustard / betowre / & shovelere,' Oameimfor 

gaiiiel jn * is m sesou» ; 
Wodcok/lapewynk/Mertenet/larke,&veiiysou», saitandOizmA- 
Sparows / thrusclies / alle J^ese .vij. vriVi salt & oock. umuhea^ 

synamome : 
544 Quayles^ sparowes, & snytes, whaA J^eir^ sesorm •ndqiiaUa.fto. 

com,' 
Thus to provoke an appetide fe Sawce hathe is 

operacioun. 



Jertipji 0f Jflstjro 



Howtoeamt 
FUh, 



N 



ow, good soft, of kervynge of fysche y wot y 
must ]>e leere : 



To pesofi * or frumenty take fe tayle of J>e bevere,* with pea sonp or 



Beaver't 



^ ShoveUn feed most commonly upon the Sea-coast upon cockles 
and Shell-fish : being taken home, and dieted with new garbage 
and good meat, they are nothing inferior to fatted Galls. Mufett, 
p. 1 09. Mie populm, a sche velard (the anas dypeata of naturalists) . 
Wrighf s Voc., p. 253. 

2 See note 6 to line 539, above. 

'Is not this line superflaoosr After 135 stanzas of 4 lines 
each, we here come to one of 5 lines. I suspect 1. 544 is simply 
de trop. W. W. Skeat. 

* For the fish in the Poem mentioned by Yarrell, and for refer- 
ences to him, see the list at the end of this Soke of Nurture. 

^ Becipes for '* Grene Pesen " are in H, Ord. p. 426-7, p. 470 ; 
and Porre of Pesen, &c. p. 444. 

* Topsell in his Fourfooted Beasts, ed. Rowland, 1658, p. 36, 
says of Beayers, '* There hath been taken of them whose tails hare 
weighed four pound weight, and they are accounted a very delicate 
dish, for being dressed they eat like Barbies : they are used by the 
Lotharingians and Savoyans [says Bellonius] for meat allowed to 
be eaten on fish-dayes, although the body that beareth them be 
flesh and unclean for food. The manner of their dressing is, first 
roasting, and afterward seething in an open pot, that so the erill 
yapour may go away, and some in pottage made with Saffron ; 
other with Ginger, and many with Brine ; it is certain that the 
tail and forefeet taste very sweet, fh>m whence came the Proverbe, 
That sweet is that fish, which is not fish at aU.*^ 



154 



HOW TO CAAVE HEBBINGB A!7D SALT FISH. 



taU.iaIt 
Porpoi8e,*ai 



Split up Herrlnca, 



take oat the roe 
and bones, 

eat with mustard. 

Take the ikln off 
salt fish. 

Salmon, Ling, fte., 



and let the saoce 
bomostard. 



548 or jiff yo haue salt purpose* / jele' /torrentille^ 
deynteithiw fuUe dere, 
ye most do affcure ])e fonne of frumenty, as y 
said wliile ere. 

Baken herynge,dres3id & dijt with white sugure ; 
J>e wliite lierynge by ^e bak a brode ye splat hyOi 
sur6, 
552 botbo roughs & boonzw / voyded / j)efl may youre 
lorde endure 
to ete merily wM mustard fat tyme to his plesure. 

Of alle maner salt j&sche, looke ye pare awey the 

felle, 
Salt samoun / Congur*, grone * fische / bofe lynge ^ 

& myllewelle^, 
556 & on youre soue^raynes trenchewr ley hit, as y 

yow telle, 
^e sawce jjer-to, good mustard, alway accordethe 

welle. 



1 See the recipe for '* Farmente with Purpeys," J7. Ord. p. 442. 

' I suppose this to be Seal. If it is Eel, see recipes for " Eles 
in Surre, Browet, GravS, Brasyle," in JT. Ord. p. 467-8. 

3 "Wynkyn do "Worde has * a salte purpos or sole turrentyne.' 
If this is right, torrentille must apply to ^ele, and be a species of 
seal : if not, it must be allied to the Trout or Torrentyne, I. 835. 

* Congur in Pyole, ff. Ord, p. 469. * I must needs agree with 
Diocles, who being asked, whether were the better Jiah^ a Fike or a 
Ckmger : That (said he) sodden, and this broild ; shewing us 
thereby, that all flaggy, slimy and moist fish (as Eeles, Congers, 
Lampreys, Oisters, Cockles, Hustles, and Scallopes) are best broild, 
rested or bakt ; but all other fish of a firm substance and drier con- 
stitution is rather to be sodden.' Mufett, p. 145. 

' So MS., but ffrone may mean green, see 1. 851 and note to it. 
If not ? for Fr. gronan, a gurnard. The Scotch erowner is a species 
of gurnard. 

• Lynge, fysshe, Cb/m, Palsgraye ; but Colin, a Sea-cob, or 
GuU. Cotgrave. See Promptorium, p. 296. 

' Fr. Merlm ou Merluz, A Mellwell, or Keeling, a kind of small 
Cod whereof Stockfish is made. Cotgrave. And see Prompt. Parv. 
p. 348, note 4. " Cod-fish is a great Sea-whiting, called also a Keel- 
ing or Melwel." Bennett's Muffett on Food, p. 148. 



lOHN BUSSELLS BOKE OF NUBTUBB. 155 

Saltfyschd, Btokfische ^ / merljnge ' / makerelle, but- \^^ for ibekftreu 
twryemay Ac. butter 

wiik swete huttur of Claynos ' or els of hakenay, ofcuTneeor 
560 J>e boontw, skynnes / & fynnes, furst y-fette a-way, *^ " 

])ofi sett youre discht? pere as youre sou^reyn may 
tast & assay. 

Pike^, to youre souereyfi y wold fat it be layd, or pike, thebeUy 
pe wombe is best, as y haue herd it aaide^ 
564 Fyschd & skyfl to-gedir be hit conyaied 

wit^ pike sawce y-noughe fer-to/& hit shalld not with plenty of 
be denayd. 

The salt lamprey, goben hit a slout^ .vij. peciff y 8«it Lunpraya, 
assigne ; gobbets, 

pick ont the bM^-i 

fan pike owt fe boont^ nyje ])e bak spyne, bones, 

^ Cogan sajB of Btockfish, '^ Concerning which fUh I will say no 
more than Erasmus hath written in his CbUoquio. Ther$ i» a kind 
ofJUhe^ which m eaUtd in English Stockfish : it nouriahsth no more 
than a stock. Yet I hane eaten of a pie made onely with Stockefishe, 
whiche hath been yerie good, but the goodnesse was not so much in 
the fishe as in the cookerie, which may make that sauorie, which of 
it selfe is msaTourie . . it is sayd a good Cooke can make yon good 
meate of a whetstone. . . Therfore a good Cooke is a good iewell, 
and to be much made of." " Stockfish whilst it is unbeaten is 
called Buckhome, because it is so tough ; when it is beaten upon 
the stock, it is termed stockfish." Mufett. Lord Percy (a.d. 
1612) was to have "cxl Stok fisch for the expensys of my house 
for an hole Yere, after ij.d. oboL the peoe," p. 7, and <*Dccecxlij 
Salt fisch . . after iiij the pece," besides 9 barrels of white and 10 
cades of red herring, 5 cades of Sprats (sprootis), 400 score salt 
salmon, 3 firkins of salt sturgeon and 6 cags of salt eels. 

s Fr. Merlan, a Whiting, a Merling. Cot. * The best Whitings 
are taken in Tweede, called Merlingsj of like shape and yertue with 
ours, but far bigger.' Mufett ^ p. 174. 

* MS. may be Cleynes. ? what place can it be ; Clayness, Clay- 
nose } Claybury is near Woodford in Essex. 

^ A recipe for Pykes in Braseyis in if. Ord, p. 451. The head 
of a Carp, the taU of a Pike, and the Belly of a Bream are 
most esteemed for their tenderness, shortness, and well rellishing. 
Muffett, p. 177. 

' Cut it in gobets or lumps a-slope. " Aslet or U'Slotote (asloppe, 
a slope). Oblique" P. Pary. But elout may be sht, bolt of a door, 
and so aslout » in long strips. 



dbh. 



156 HOW TO OARYE PLAICE AND OTHER FISH. 

668 and ley hit ofl your lorde* trenchers wliefer lie 
sowpe or dyne, 
"TlJi^tSie*^ & fat ye haue ssoddyfl jrnons ' to meddiUe wit^ 

galantyne.' 

pudce: cut off the Off playce,' looke ye put a-way ])e watwr dene, 

affti^r fat ]>e fyiines also, fat fey be not sene ; 
aknitor' ^^^ Crosse hym f efl vriMi your knyffe fat is so kene ; 

MMioe with wine, wyne or ale / powder f er-to, youre souerayil welle 

**■ to queme. 

Gunuud, Ohub; GuTiiard / roche * / breme / chevyfl / base / melet / 

in her kervynge, 
Roach, Dmo. Ood, Popche / pooche * / darce* / MakereUe, & whitynge, 

jTriS^on ^r** 576 Codde / haddok / by f e bak / splat fern in f e 

dische liynga, 
pike owt f e boonz^^, dense f e refett ^ in f e bely 

bydynge; 

[Foi \n b.i Soolus * / Carpe / Breme de mere,* & trowt, 

1 Onions make a man stink and wink. Bertbelson, 175i. ' The 
Onion, though it be the Countrey mans meat, is better to yse than 
to tast : for he that eateth euerie day tender Onions with Honey 
to his breakfast, shall line the more healthfiill, so that they be not 
too new.' Mauon JRustique, p. 178, ed. 1616. 

' Recipes for this sauce are in Ziber C. p. 30, and JET. Ord. p. 
441 : powdered crusts, galingale, ginger, and salt, steeped in vine- 
gar and strained. See note to 1. 634 below. 

* See " Plays in Cene," that is, Ceue, chives, or eschalots. H. 
Ord. p. 452. 

^ Of all sea-fish Rochets and Gurnards are to be preferred ; for 
their flesh is firm, and their substance purest of all other. Next 
unto them Plaise and Soles are to be numbered, being eaten in 
time ; for if either of them be once stale, there is no flesh more 
carrion-like, nor more troublesome to the belly of man. Mouffet, 
p. 164. 

' Roches or Loches in Egurdouce, S. Ord. p. 469. 

* Or dacce. 

7 Sivetj roe of a fish. HalliweU. Dan. ravitj rogn (rowne of Pr. 
Parr.) under which Molbech refers to AS. krafe (raven, Bos worth) 
as meaning roe or spawn. 6. P. Marsh. 

8 See " Soles in Cyne," that is, Cyue, JET. Ord. p. 452. 

* Black Sea Bream, or Old Wife. Cantharm grUeua. Atkinson. 
'* Abramides Marinse. Breams of the Sea be a white and solid 



lOHN RUSSELLS BOKE OF NUBTURB. 157 

fey must be takyfi of as pey in f e dische lowtj goies. carp, &c.. 
580 bely & bak / by gobyfi » Jje boon to pike owt, ^ ^'^ " "^*^ 

so serve ye lorde^ trenchere, looke ye wellc abowt. 
Whale / Swerdfysche / purpose / dorray* / rosted Whaie, porpoUi^ 

wele, 
Bret' / samofi / Congur* /stiirgeoun / turbut, & eongur. turbo** 

jele, 
584 ])omebak / thurle polle / hound fysch* / halybut, to Hijybut, Ac.. 

hym fat hathe heele, 
alle fese / cut in pe dische as youre lord etethe at cat in the dish. 

meele. 

Tenche* in lely or in Sawce ^ / loke fere ye kut »nd»too Tench ia 

hit so, 
and ofi youie lorde^ trenchere se fat it be do. 
588 EKs & lampumes® rosted / where bat euer ye go, On n»rt 

Lfunprona 
substance, good juice, most easie digestion, and good nourishment." 
Mufett^ p. 148. 

^ gobbets, pieces, see 1. 638. 

> Fr. Dor^e : f. The Doree, or Saint Peters fish ; also (though 
not so properly) the Goldfish or Goldenie. Cotgrave. 

' Sretty § xxi. He beareth Azure a Birt (or Burt or BerU) proper . 
by the name of Brit, . . It is by the Germans termed a Brett^Jlsh 
or Brett-eoek. Randle Holme. 

* Eec. for Congur in Sause, S. Ord, p. 401 ; in Pyole, p. 469. 

^ This must be Bandle Holme's <* Log fish or Sea Bog FUh. 
It is by the Dutch termed a Flaekhund, and a Hundfiaeh : the 
Skin is hard and redish, beset with hard and sharp scales ; sharp 
and rough and black, the Belly is more white and softer. Bk II. 
Ch. XrV. No. l7, p. 343-4. For names of Fish the whole chapter 
should be consulted, p. 321 — 345. 

' * His flesh is stopping, slimy, yiscous, & vexy unwholesome ; 
and (as Alexander Benedictus writeth) of a most unclean and 
damnable nourishroAut . . they engender palsies, stop the lungs, 
putrifie in the stomach, and bring a man that much eats them to 
infinite diseases . . they are worst being fried, best being kept in 
gellf/f made strong of wine and spices.' Mufett, p. 189. 

^Recipes for Tenches in graye, L. 0, C. p. 25 ; in Cylk (wine, 
&c.), S. Ord. p. 470 ; in Bresyle (boiled with spices, &c.), p. 468. 

^ Lamprons in Galentyn, S. Ord. p. 449. " Lampreys and 
Lamprons differ in bigness only and in goodness ; they are both a 
Tery sweet and nourishing meat. . . The little ones called Lamprons 
are best broild, but the great ones called Lampreys are best baked.'' 
Mufetty p. 181-3. See 1. 630-40 of this poem. 



158 



HOW TO CARVE CRABS AND ORATPIBH. 



CMt Tlnfigar, Ac., 
Mud bond thfiin. 



OralM are hard to 
carve: break 
eyeiy claw. 



put all the meat 
In the body-flhell. 



and then season it 
with 



Tinegar or veijolce 
and powder. (?) 



Heat it, and gire 
it to 7oar lord. 



Put the daws, 
broken, in a dish. 



The sea Oayflah ; 
cat it ssimder, 



slit the belly of 
the back part. 



take oat the fish. 



Cast vinegre & powder fcrofi / f urst fette J>e honus 
]>em &o. 

Crabbe is a slutt / to kerve / & a wrawd * wight ; 
breke euery Clawe / a sondw / for fat is bis 

ryght: 
592 In ])e brode sbelle putt yoiiie stuff / but fuist 

haue a sigbt 
J)at it be clene from skyn / & senow / or ye 

begyft to dight. 

And what * ye haue piked / J)e stuff owt of euery 

shells 
-with J>e poynt of youre knyff, loke ye temper hit 

welle, 
596 put vinegre / ))erto, vercyus, or ayselle,' 

Cast per-oh powdur, the bettor it wille smelle. 

Send J)e Crabbe to fe kychyn / ^ere for to hete, 
agayii hit facche to J?y souerayne sittynge at mete; 
600 breke ])e clawes of f e crabbe / ^e smalle & pQ grete, 
In a disch J>em ye lay / if hit like yowr souer- 
ayne to ete. 

Crevise * / J)us wise ye must them dight : 
Departe the crevise arsondire euyfl to youre sight, 
604 Slytt J?e bely of the hyndur part / & so do ye 

right, 
and alle hoole take owt J)e fische, like as y yow 

behight. 

' "Wraw, froward, ongoodly. Perversut . . ezasperatu. Pr. Parv. 

' for whan, when. 

> A kind of yinegar ; i .S. etBtle, vinegar ; given to Cbrist on the 
Cross. 

♦ Eacrevisse : f. A Crenice, or Crayfish [see 1. 618] ; (By some 
Authors, hat not so properly, the Crab-fish is also tearmed so.) 
Esereviue de mer, A Lobster ; or, (more properly) a Sea-Cr^ice. 
Cotgrave. A Crevice, or a Crejlsh, or as some write it, a Crevis 
Fish, are in all respects the same in form, and are a Species of 
the Lobster, bat of a lesser size, and the head is set more into the 
body of the Crevice than in the Lobster. Some call this a Gan- 
well. E. Holme, p. 338, coL 1, § xxx. 



lOHK BUS8ELLS BOKE OF NURTURB. 159 

Pare awey fe red skyfl for dyaera cawse & dowt, 

and make clene ^e place also / ^at ye calle his ciettonttheflnwot 

gowt/ 
608 hit lies in pe mydde^ of ^e bak / looke ye pike «»»• middle of the 

it owt ; *»<* ; pi<* 'it out^ 

areise hit hy J)e ])ykne8 of a grote / Jw fische tew it off the iwi. 

pownd abowt. 

put it in a dische leese by lees ^ / & ^t ye not 

forgete 
to put vinegre to ^e same / so it towche not pe •»<* p«* vinegM 

mete ; 
612 breke ])e gret clawes youra self / ye nede no fareftktfaedawB 

cooke to trete, 
Set pern ofi fe table / ye may / wit^wt any ^^^^^ 

mBner heete. 

The bak of pe Cievise, pus he must be sted : STuwcnS^ 

array hym as ye dothe / pe crabbe, if J)at any be 

had, 
616 and bo>e ende^ of pe sheUe / Stoppe them fast ^^tdthtSLL 

vrith bred, 
& eeme / youre soucreyfl per 'with / as he likethd 

to be fedd. 

Of Crevis dewe doig ' Cut his bely a-way, [FoL i».] 

be fischf? in A dische clenly bat ye lay The ftwh-water 

^ . , CraylWi: serre 

620 wiiJi vinegar & powdur per vppofl, f us is vsed 'ay, with yinegir and 

powder. 

pan jonre souerayne / whan hym semethe, sadly 
he may assay. 



' No doubt the intestinal tract, ranning along the middle of the 
body and tail. Dr Giinther. Of OreTiBses and Shrimps, Mnffett 
sajs, p. 177, they '* giTe also a kind of exercise for sach as be weak : 
for head and brest mnst first be divided from their bodies ; then 
each of them mnst be dis scaled, and clean picked with much 
pidling ; then the long gut lying along the back of the Crevisse is 
to be Toided." 

> slice by slice. 

* The fresh -water crayfish is beautiful eating, Dr Qiinther says. 



160 



HOV TO CARVB WHELKS AND LAMPRET& 



Salt Storgeon : 
BlitltfljoU. or 
hflMl,(hi]i. 



Whelk : eat off 
Ite hMd and tail. 



throw awaj Its 
oporculum, 
manUe, Ac, 

cut it iu two. and 
put it on the 
staxgeon. 



addlnc Tinegar. 

Oarre Baked 
Lampreyi thus : 
take off the pto- 
cnut, pat thin 
alioea of bread on 
alMsh, 



poor galentyne 
oyer the bread. 



add cinnamon 
and red wine. 



The lolle * of fe salt sturgeoun / thyfi / take hede 

ye slytt, 
& Townd alx)ut pQ disch^ dresse ye mustefi hit. 
624 j)e whelke * / looke J»tt pe hed / and tayle awey 

be kytt, 
his pyntill * & gntt / almond & mantille/ awey 

per fro ye pitt ; 

Thefi kut ye pe whelk asondt^r, evefi "pecis two, 
and ley pe pecis perof / vppofi youre sturgeoun so, 
628 Townd all abowt pe disch / while pat hit will^ go ; 
put vinegr« j)er-vppofl / f e better J)aa wille hit do. 

Fresch^ lamprey bake * / puB it must be dight : 
Open l^e pastey lid, per-ixi to haue a sight, 
632 Take pen white bred pjn y-kut & li3t, 

lay hit in a chargere / dische, or plater, ryght ; 

- with a spone ]>en take owt ^e gentilld galantyne,® 
In pe dischd, oft pQ bred / ley hit, lemman myne, 
636 J)efi take powdur of Synamome, & temp^ hit 
wit^ red wyne : 

■ loUe of a fysshe, teste. PalBgraye. loU, as of sahnon, &c., 
atpui, Gonldm. in Promptoriam, p. 264. 

' For to make a potage of welkes, Ziber Cfure, p. 17. <'Per- 
winkles or Whelks, are nothing bnt sea-snails, feeding upon the 
finest mud of the shore and the best weeds." Mufett, p. 164. 

' Pintle generally means the penis ; bnt Dr Giinther says the 
whelk has no viBible organs of generation, though it has a project- 
ing tube by which it takes in water, and the function of this might 
haye been misunderstood. Dr G. could suggest nothing for almond^ 
but on looking at the drawing of the male Whelk {Bueeinum nu- 
datum) creeping, in the Penny Cyclopaedia, y. 9, p. 454, col. 2 
(art. Entomostomata), it is quite clear that the almond must mean 
the animal's homy, oval operculum on its hinder part. ' Most spiral 
shells have an operculum, or lid, with which to close the aperture 
when they withdraw for shelter. It is deyeloped on a particular 
lobe at the posterior part of the foot, and consists of homy layers, 
sometimes hardened with shelly matter.' Woodward* a MoUuteOy^AI. 

^ That part of the integument of moUusca which contains the 
Tiscera and secretes the shell, is termed the mantle. Woodward. 

^ Recipe ** For lamprays baken," in Liber Cure, p. 38. 

* A sauce made of crumbs, galingale, ginger, salt, and vinegar. 
See the Recipe in Liber Cure^ p. 30. 



lOHN RUS8ELLS BOKB OP NURTURE. 161 

J>e same wold plese a pore mafl / y suppose, welle & 
fyne. 

Mynse ye be gobyns as thyfi as a grote, '^^^ ^^ **™" 

bafl lay bem vppofi youre galantyne stondynge on a ^^ '^«™ ®" **^® 

o •/ ./ o muoe, Ac., on a 

chafiire hoote : bot piate. 

640 j)us must ye di3t a lamprey owt of his coffyn cote, 

, . ., , . aenre up to your 

and so may youre souerayne ete merdy be noote. lord. 

White herynge in a dische, if hit be seaward & J^*? herrings 

fresshe, 
yo«r Bouereyfl to ete in seesoun of yere / J)er- 

aftwr he wille Asche. 
644 looke he be white by be boon / be roughe white the roe must b« 

" '^ ' ' o white and tender : 

& nesche ; 
wit/i salt & wyne serue ye hym J)e same / boldly, ""^^ ^'^ salt 
& not to basshe. 

Shiympes welle pyked / be scales awev ve cast. Shrimps picked: 

^^ I r J J 'lay them round 

Eound abowt a sawcer / ley ye bem in hast : • sawoer, and 

. . I ^ ^ r J genre with 

648 Jje vmegre in J)e same sawcer, J)at youre lord may vinegar." 
attast, 
J)an wM J)e said fische / he may fede hym / & 
of J)em make no wast." 

" Tff ^^^» ^^^J ^^^^ ^^^ yo / & Crist yow haue in "Thanks, father. 

cure, 
For of ])e nurtui'eof kervynge y suppose J)at y bo sure, J£^^ now' 
652 but yet a-nodwr office j)er is / saue y dar not endure ^^^ ^^*-' 
to frayne yow any further /.for feere of displesure : but i hardly dare 

ask you about 

For to be a sewere y wold y bed fe cownynge, »8e^«'» duUt-s. 
J)afi durst y do my devoire / wet^ any worship- 
f ulle to be wownynge ; 
656 sefl ))at y know Jje course / & Jje craft of kervynge, 

y wold se J)e si3t of a Sewere > / what wey he / ^""^^n ** ^ 
shewethe in seruynge." 

1 See the duties and allowances of " A Sewar for the Kynge," 
Edw. IV., in Household Ordinances, pp. 36-7; Henry VII., p. 118. 
King Edmund risked his life for his assewer, p. 36. 

11 



162 THE SEWEB'S OB ARRANGER^S DUTIES. 



TheDuHetqfa 



tetfff 



S stiver.' 

^°to 1^"^ " IJ^^ 8®^ y* ^ 8o> "^y son / fat science ye wold 

fayfl lere, 

drede yow no ))ynge daungeresnes ; j)t« * y shalla 

do my devew 

I wui gladly toach 660 to enforme yow feithfully w/tA ryght gladsom chere, 

& yf ye wolle lysteil my lore / somewhat ye shalld 

here : 

Let the Sewer, Take hede whafl ]>e worshipfcdle hed / bat is of 

as soon as the . 

Master any place 

begins to aaj hath wasche afore mete / and higynnethe to sey J)e 

grace, 
hie to the kitchen. 664 Vn-to Jje kechyfi Jjafl looke ye take youre trace, 

Entendyng & at youre commaundynge J>e se?*- 

naunde^ of J)e place ; 

I. Ask the Panter FuTst speke vfHh j)e pantere / or officers of f e 

spicery 
forfroit8(ae For frutos a-fore mete to ete bem fastvnGelv. 

butter,gTapes,fta), '^ J b J9 

668 as Dutt?*r / plommes / damesyns, grapes, and chery, 
Suche in sesons of fe yere / ar served / to make 
mefl mery, 

If they are to be Scfche and cnquere of Jjem / yf suche seruyse 

'^ shalle be J)at day ; 

n. Ask the Cook J>an commyfi with pe cooke / and looke what he 

wille say ; 
andsonreyor 672 pG suTveyoure & he / j)e certeynte telle yow wille 

>ay> 

* Tlw "^^^ Sewer in the MS. is written small, the flourishes of 
the big initial having taken up so much room. The name of the 
office of mcer is derived from the Old French eseiilier, or the 
BcuteUariut, i. e. the person who had to arrange the dishes, in the 
same way as the scuteUery (scullery) was by rights the place 
where the dishes were kept. Domestic Architecturey v. 3, p. 80 n, 

' Inserted in a seemingly later hand. 



lOHN RUSSELLB SOKE OF NURTURE. 163 

what meiee // & liow many disclies / fey dyd whatdiahesaw 
fote puruay. 

And whafi J>e surveonra ^ & J>e Cooke / w/t/i yow 

done accorde, 
J^en shalld ])e cook diesse alia bynge to be sur- m. Let the cook 

MiTQ up tha 

veyng6 1x)ide» di>he>, 

676 j)e surveoure sadly / & soburly / witA-owtefl any the smreyor 
discoide 
Delyuer forthe his disches, ye to convey pern to <i«UT«theiii, 
pe loide ; 

And 'whefi ye bithe at fe horde / of saruyce and -^^°^iS*' 

SUrveynge, Btww, have 

se pat ye haue officers bo])e courtly and coTinynge, akiuva ommn to 
680 For drede of a discha of youra course stelynga \ bebigrt(^ 
whycha myght cawse a vileny ligtly in youra 
saruice sewynga. 

And se bat ye haue saruytours semely / be disches ^- ^•^ ^"*J^ 

for to here, 
Marchalle*, Squyers / & sergeaunte* of amies *, if Mm»i»i». ^» 

pat pej he there, 
684 bat youra lordes mete may he hrowrht wtt^ut toWngtbedtahee 

' " ^ -o from the kitchen. 

dowt or dere ; 
to sett it surely oft be horde / youre self nede not ▼• ^^^ ■«* **»«» 

" ' I " on the table 

feere. youweif. 



1 See the duties and allowances of '' A Snnreyoar for the Kyng" 
(Edw. IV.) in Household Ord, p. 37. Among other things he is 
to see * that no thing be pnrloyned,' (of. line 680 below), and the 
fourtj Sqnyers of Household who help senre the King's table from 
' the surveying bourde ' are to see that ' of eyery messe that cnm- 
myth from the dressing bourde . . thereof be nothing withdrawe 
by the squires/ ib. p. 45. 

> Squyers of Houshold zl . . xx squires attendaunt uppon the 
Kings (£dw. IV.) person in ryding . . and to help senre his table 
from the surveying bourde. £f. Ord. p. 45. Sergeauntes of 
Armes IIII., whereof ii alway to be attending uppon the Kings 
person and chambre. . . In like wise at the conTeyaunoe of his 
meate at every course from the surveying bourde, p. 47. 

11* 



164 



FIRST COURSE OF A FLESH DINNER. 



A MtaiDvMVtT. 



% )iimt flf fltst^.' 



Firtt Count. 



1. MtuUiduid 
brawn. 

%. Potaice. 



%\t ^xtrst (tonrst. 

Xiurst set forthe mustard / & brawne / of boore,* 
* ])e wild swyno, 

Suche potage / as J)e cooke hathe made / of yerbis / 
spice / & wyne, 
8. stewed Phe*. 688 Beeff, moton'/ Stewed feysaund / Swan* w?'tA 

nni and Swan, ftc. .i i^i j _» r 

the Cnawdwyfi,* 
4. Baked yeniK>n. Capoun, pigge / vensoun bake, leche lombard * / 

fruture viaimt ' fyne ; 
fi. ADeTiceof And j^aH a Sotelte : 

Gabriel greeting Maydofi maiy fat holy virgyne, ^ ^ Sotelte 



Uary. 



692 And Gabrielle gretynge hur / vfiMh 
an Ave. 



* Compare the less gorgeous feeds specified on pp. 64-5 of Liber 
Cure, and pp. 449-50 of Household Ordinances. Also with this and 
the following *Dinere of Fische* should be compared "the Diett for 
the King's Majesty and the Queen's Grace ** on a Flesh Day and a 
Fish Day, a.d. 1526, contained in Household Ordinances^ p. 174-6. 
Though Harry the Eighth was king, he was allowed only two 
courses on each day, as against the Duke of Gloucester's three giyen 
here. The daily cost for King and Queen was £4. 3b. 4d. ; yearly, 
£1520. 13s. 4d. See also in Markham's Houswife, pp. 98-101, the 
ordering of ' extraordinary great Feasts of Princes ' as well as 
those ' for much more humble men.' 

' See Recipes for Bor in Counfett, Boor in Brasey, Bore in 
Egurdouce, in H. Ord. p. 435. 

' Chair de mouion manger de glouion : Pro. Flesh of a Mutton 
is food for a glutton ; (or was held so in old times, when Beefe and 
Bacon were your onely dainties.) Cot. 

* The rule for the succession of dishes is stated in Liher Cure, p. 
55, as whole-footed birds first, and of these the greatest, as swan, 
goose, and drake, to precede. Afterwards come baked meats and 
other dainties. ^ See note to 1. 535 above, 

« See the Kecipe for Leche Lumbard in Household Ordinances, 
p, 438. Pork, eggs, pepper, cloves, currants, dates, sugar, pow- 
dered together, boiled in a bladder, cut into strips, and served with 
hot rich sauce. 

'' Meat fritter ?, mentioned in 1. 501. 



lOHN BUSSELLS BOKE OF NURTURE. 165 

Two potage*, blanger mangere,* & Also lely ' : i- BiancMwigecof 

Meat). 

For a standard / vensoun rost / kyd, favne, or «■ »«»•* venison. 

cony, 
bustard, stork / crane / pecok in hakille ryally,' •• p<*«x*^ 
696 heiron-sew or / betowre, wztA-s^rue wit^ bred, '»«''o™«^» 
yf j)at drynk be by ; 

Partriche, wodcok / plovere / egret / Rabette^ tmau, 

sowkere* ; 
Gret briddes / larkes / gentille breme de mere, 
dowcette*,* payne pufP, with leche / loly® Amberc, Lecho. 
700 Fretoura powche / a sotelte folowynge in fere, 
J)e course for to fullfylle. 
An angella goodly kafl appere, Angei appeutng 

and syngynge with a mery chere, 
704 Vn-to .iij. sheperde* vppofl afl hille. >»««>• on a wu. 



S^t i^ Course. 



Third Ckmnt, 
L Almond cream. 



*^ Creme of almonde^, & mameny, pQ iij. course 

in coost, 
Curlew / brew / snyte^ / quayles / sparows / |n{^^^ 

martenettes rost, 

> See " Blaumanger to Potage " p. 430 of Eoutehold Ordinances; 
Blawmangere, p. 465 ; Blonc Manger, X. C 6'. p. 9, and Blanc 
Haungere of fysshe, p. 19. 

' << Gele in Chekyns or of Hcnncs," and *< Gelle of Flesshe," 
n. Ord. p. 437. 

3 See the recipe " At a Feeste Roiall, Pecockes shall he dight on 
this Manere," H. Ord. p. 439 ; hnt there he is to he served *^forthe 
with the last cours." The hctekle refers, I suppose, to his hcing 
sown in his skin when cold after roasting. 

^ The fat of Sabet-tuekerty and little Birds, and small Chickens, 
is not discommendable, because it is soon and lightly overcome of 
an indifferent stomack. Muffett^ p. 110. 

^ Recipe at p. 60 of this volume. Dowcet mete, or sweto cake 
mete (bake mete. P.) Iktieeum, duetiUm. P. Parv. Dousette, a 
lytell flawne, darioUe. Palsgrave. Fr. Jlannet ; m. A doucet or 
little custard. Cot. 

> May be lelif, amber jolly, instead of a beantiful amber leche. 



166 3bd ooursb of a flesh dinner; Ibt of a fish one. 



8. Fresh-irater 
cnjflsh, kc. 



4. Baked Qulnoes, 
Sage friUen, Ac 



A Derloee: 

Tlie Mothflr of 
Christ, presented: 

^ the Kings of 
OotegBft 



Dea$ert, 
White apples, 
caraways, 
wafers and 
Ypocras. 
Clear the Table. 



Pcrche in gely / Crevise dewe douj / pety perueis * 
with J)e moost, 
708 Quynces bake / leche dugard / Pnituw sage / y 
speke of cost, 
and soteltees full6 soleyfi : 
fat lady ^t conseuyd by the holygost 
hym fat distroyed pe fends^ boost, 
712 presentid plesauntly by fe kynges of coleyft. 

Afftur fia, delicatta mo. 
BlaundereUe, or pepyns, with carawey in confite, 
WaflFors to ete / ypocras to drynk with delite. 
716. now ^is fest is fynysched / voyd fe table qujrte ; 
Go we to pe fysche fest while we haue respite, 

& faSi with godded grace fe fest will6 be do. 



A FUhlHmter, 



FintCoune, 



L Minnows, ke. 



8. Porpoise and 
peas. 



[Fol. 182.] 

A Fr«sh MlUweU. 
4. Roast Pike. 






" Musclade or ' menows // wit^ fe Samoun bel- 
lows * // eles, lampurns in fere ; 
720 Pesofi wit^ pQ purpose // ar good potage, as y 
suppose // 
as fallethe for tyme of pe jere : 
Bakefi herynge // Sugre peroa strewynge // 
grene myllewelle, deyntethc & not dere ; 
724 pike" / lamprey / or SooHs // purpose rosted oft 
coles * // 

I See the note to line 499. 

> Compare " For a semse on fyBshe day/' Ziber Cktre, p. 54, and 
Bbutehoid Ordinances, p. 449. 

> For of. See < Sewes on Fiscbe Dayes,' L 821. 

* ? for beHiet : see * the baly of l^e fr^h samoun,' 1. 823 in Sewes 
on Fische Dayes; or it may be for the sounds or breathing apparatus. 

B Fykes in Brasey, S, Ord, p. 451. 

* Pnrpeases, Tursons, or sea-hogs, are of the nature of swine, 
nerer good till they be fat .. it is an unsayoury meat . . yet many 
Ladies and Gentlemen Ioyo it exceedingly, bak'd like venison. 
Mouffety p. 165. 



lOHN BUSS£LLa BOKE OF NUBTURE. 



167 



gz^mard / lampwaes bake / a leche, & a friture; 
a eemely sotelte folowynga evyn Jjere. 
A galaunt yong^ mafl, a wanton wight, 
728 pypyng<5 & syngynge / lovynge & lyght, 

Standyngd oil a clowd, Sangi^zneus he hight, 
J>e begywnynge of J)e sesofl fat cleped is ver." 



fi. ADivice: 

A 70iiiig man 

piping 

on a dond, and 
called &in0itlt»- 
«IM, or Spring. 



%\t monb amu. 



SewndCimnt, 



" Dd,ie8 in confyte // lely red and white // i- i)»t«8and 

732 J>is is good dewynge * ; 

Congz^r, somofl, dorray // In siripp^ if fey lay // s. DoreeinSyrap. 

YTiih o^er disches in sewyng^. 
Brett / turbut * / or halybut // Carpe, base / myletj a Turbot, ftc, 
or trowt // 
736 Chevefl,' breme / renewynge ; 

Jole / Eles, lampumes / rost // a lechei a fiyture, y *• ^^ Fwtter^ 
make now host // 
J>e secoTid / sotelte sewynge. *■ ^ ^^«^« = 

A man of warre semynga he was, a Man of War. 

740 A roughs, a red, angry syxe, redandangu. 

An hasty mail standynge in fyr^ 
As hoot as somer by his attyre ; 
his name was feroii, & cleped Estas. ^^^H^'^ 



> } due-ing, that is, Bervioe ; not moistening. 

* Rhombu Torbnts . . some call the Sea-Pheasant . • whikt 
they be young . . they are called Butts. They are best being 
sodden. Mufett, p. 173. ^^Pegcons, btUtes, and elis,'' are paid 
for as hahfs (hawks) ntete, on x Sept. 6 B. H(enry YII) in the 
Howard Household Books, 1481-00, p. 508. 

3 Gulls, Guffs, Pulches, Chevinsy and MiUers-thombs are a kind 
of jolt-headed Gudgins, yery sweet, tender, and wholesome. Muffett, 
p. 180. Randle Holme says» *A Chevyn or a BMarde ; it is in 
Latin called Capiius, from its great head ; the Germans SehwaUf or 
AM ; and 3fyn or Moum ; a Schupjiahy from whence we title it a 
ChubJUh.^ ch. xi?. { xxTii. 



168 



3rd and 4th courses of a fish dinner. 



Third Count. 

\. Almond 
Cream, Ac, 



2. BtargeoD, 

Whelks. MinnowB. 
9. Slirimps. Ac., 

4. Fritters. 

6. A Device: 
A Man with a 
SicUe. 

tired. 

called Hanrest 



%\it 1^ 



tffttrst* 



Fourth Ooune. 

[Fol. 182 b.] 
Hot apples. 

Ginger, Wafers, 

Ypocras. 



The Lvat Device. 



Tempa or 

Winter, with gre7 

locks, 

sitting on a stone. 



744 Creme of almond^ lardyne // & inaDieny' // good 
& fyne // 
Potage for Jje .iij^ aerujse, 
Fresch stuigen / breme de mere // Perche in 
lely / oryent <& clere // 
whelke«, menuse ; pus we devise : 
748 Shiympis / Fresch herynge bryled // pety perueis 
may not be exiled, 
leche fryture,' a tansey gyse // 
The sotelte / a mafl vriih sikelle in his hande, In a 
ryvere of watur stande / 
wrapped in wedes in a werysom wyse, 
752 hauynge no deynteithe to daunce : 
pe thrid age of mafi by liklynes ; 
hervist we clepe hym, fulle of werynes : 
jet Jjer folowythe mo J)at we must dres, 
756 regarded riche pat ar fulle of plesaunco. 

®^e .ttij. tavxBt of fruit. 

Whot appuls & peres wiiJi sugre Candy, 
Withe Gyngre columbyne, mynsed manerly, 

WafuTs wit/i ypocras. 
760 Now J)is fest is fynysched /for to make glad chere : 
and ])aughe so be pat pe vse & manere 

not afore tyme be aeyii has, 

Neuerthelese aftwr my symple affecciofi 
764 y must conclude with fe fourth compleccion, 
* yemps ' pe cold terme of pe yere, 
Wyntur / wit^ his lokkys grey / febille & old, 
Syttynge vppon ^e stone / bothe hard & cold, 
768 Nigard in hert & hevy of chere. 

« "Creme of Almond Mylk.»' H. Ord. p. 447. 
' See the recipe, p. o3 of this Yolume. 

* Compare "leche fryes made of frit and friture," H. Ord. p. 
449 ; Service on Fieshe Day, last lino. 



lOHN RUSSELLS SOKE OF NURTURE. 



169 



rphe furst Sotelte, as j said, ^Saaguineus ' liiglit 
■*■ [T]he furst age of mafi / locond & light, 
fe Bpringynge tyme clepe * ver.' 
772 ^ The second course / 'colericus' by callynge, 
Fulle of Fyghtynge / blasfemynga, & brallynge, 
Fallynge at veryaunce with felow & fere. 

^ The thrid sotelte, y declare as y kan, 
776 *Autuw»pnujs,' fat is fe .iij<* age of mail, 
With a flewischd * countenauuce. 

^ The ii\j*^ countenaunce ^ as y seid before, 

is wyntur with his lokkes hoore, 
780 pe last age of man fulle of grevaunce. 

jTi6se iiij. soteltees devised in towse,' 
wher J>ey byn shewed in an howse, 

hithe dothe gret plesaunce 
784 yriih ofer sighted of gret Nowelte 

]7a& hafi be shewed in Eialle feestes of solempny te, 

A notable cost pe ordynaunce. 



These Derloes 
repreMnt the Ages 
of Man: 

8tmgui»euB, the 
Ifltace, of 
pleMure. 

CMerieua, the 2nd, 
of qaarrelUng. 



Autumpnutf 

the am, 



of melancholy. 

Winter, the 4th. 
of aches and 
troubles. 



These Deylocs. 
gire great 
pleasure, when 
shown in a house. 



%\lt sttpersmpcumn of pt tmiHittn abone 



InteHptUmtftr 
ttuDevicu. 



Ver 



Sptima. 



Sang^oiaeu. 

788 



Largus, amans, hillaris, ridens, rubei (\ue Loving. 

, . lau^iing. 

colons, 
Cantans, camost^, sati^ audax, atque singing. 

, benign. 

benignus. 



* Melancholy, full of phle^ : see the supencription 1. 792 below. 
* Flew, complecyon, (fleume of compleccyon, K. flcwc, P.) Flegmay 
Catholicon in P. Pary. 

* Mistake for SoteU$. 

* The first letter of this word is neither a clear t nor Cj though 
more like ( than.«. It was first written Qmse (as if for eou[T]se, 
succession, which makes good sense) or ioMe, and then a to was put 
over the m. If the word is towsej the only others I can find like 
it are tow, ' towe of hempe or fiax,' Promptorium ; ^heruper, to 
discheueU, towMj or disorder the haire/ Cot. 



170 



A FBST FOB A FBANKLEN. 



[FoL 18S.] 
PricUj. angry, 



cnft7, lean. 

81eep7, doll, 
■lugsiali, ikt, 

whlte-ftwod. 
EnTlooB, Md, 



timid. 7eIlow- 
oolottred. 



AFraiMin'i 



Brawn, bacon and 
peaae. 

twef and boiled 
chickens. 



roaatgooae, 
capon, and 
custade. 



SeeondOcmnt. 
MortreireB, 

real. rabblt» 

chicken, 
doiroettea, 



frttten, 
or leche. 



^ Estas 
Hirsutus, Fallaz / iiascens / prodigus, 
ColerioiUL aa,tis audax, 

Afltutus, gracilis / Siccus / crocei que colons. 

% AntnftpniiB 
Eic sompnolentus / piger, in sputamine 

Flenmations. ^ 

792 Ebes hiac sensus / pingois, facie color 

albus. 

IF yomp» 

Invidus et tristis / Cupidus / dextre 

que tenacia, 
KoB expers fraudis, timidus, lutei que 

colons. 



MalencolioTu. 



% 



a 



_ fest for 8 frjrnliUn. 

£L Franklefi may make a feste Improberabille, 
796 brawne with mustard is concordable, 
bakofl s^rued yrith pesofi, 

beef or motofl stewed saraysable, 
Boyled Ghykofi or capofi agreable, 
800 convenyent for fe sesofi ; 

Eosted goose & pygge fulle profitable, 
GapoiL / Bakemete, or Custade Gostable, 
when eggis & crayme be gesofi. 

804 ])erfore stuffe of household is behoveable, 

Mortrowes or lusselle ' ar delectable 

for J)e second course by resofi. 

Thafi veel, lambe, kyd^ or cony, 
808 Ghykon or pigeofi rosted tendurly, 

bakemetea or dowcett^a* with sHe. 

fefl followynge, fiytowrs & a leche lovely ; 
Suche seruyse in sesoun is fulle semely 
812 To aenxe vnth bothe chambur & haile. 



1 See p. 53 aboTo. 



s See p. 60 above. 



lOHN RUSSBLLS BOKE OF NURTURE. 171 

Then appuls & peris with spices delicately bp1c«i pmh, 
Aitur pe terme of J)e yere fuUe deynteithly, 

with bred and chese to call^ tnread and cheese, 

816 Spised cake* and wafurs worthily spioed c»kei. 

withe bragot * & methe,* ^us mefi may meryly bngot and mead, 
plese wella bothe gret & smalle." 



S<t>» m m b VI. 



[FoL 18S b.] 
IHiuten on Flak- 
daifi. 



" TTIlowndurs / gogeons, muskels,' menace in Gudgeona, 
^ sewe, 
820 Eles, lampumes, venpridaa / quyk & newe, Tenpiid«a o) 

Musclade in wortes / musclade^ of almondes for mnadade o) or 

state* fulle dewe, **" 

Oysturs in Ceuy * / oysturs in grauey,® your helthe ojatan dreaied. 
to renewe, 

The baly of fe fresche samofl / els purpose, or porpdaeoraeai. 
seele^, 

> See a recipe for making it of ale, honey, and spices^ in [Cog- 
an's] Hayen of Health, chap. 239, p. 268, in Nares. PhiUips 
leaves out the ale* 

' Head, a pleasant Drink made of Honey and Water. Phillips. 

' A recipe for Musculsin Sewe and Cadel of Mnscals to Potage, 
at p. 445 H. Ord, Others ' For mustul (? muscul or MustelOy the 
eel-powt, Fr. MuttelU^ the Powte or Eeele-powte) pie,' and * For 
porray of mnstuls,' in Liber Cure, p. 46-7. 

* ? a preparation of Muscles, as Applade Rjral (HarL MS. 279, 
Recipe Czxxt.) of Apples, Quinade, Beo. Czr of Quinces, I)/nad$ 
(fol. 27 b.) of Pynotis (a kind of nut) ; or is it Metelade or Meslade^ 
fol. 33, an omelette—* to euery good meslade take a )K)wsand eyroun 
or mo.' Eerbelade (fol. 42 b.) is a liquor of boiled lard and herbs, 
mixed with dates, currants, and * Pynez,' strained, sugared, coloured, 
whipped, & put into *fayre round cof^ns.' 

« Esehahtte: f. A Give or Chiue. JEteurSy The little sallade 
hearb called, Ciues, or Chines. Cotgrave. 

> For to make potage of oysturs, Ziber Oitre, p. 17. Oysturs in 
brewette, p. 53. 

' Scales flesh is counted as hard of digestion, as it is gross of 
substance, especially being old; wherefore I leave it to Mariners 
and Sailers, for whose stomacks it is fittest, and who know the 
best way how to prepare it. Mufett, p. 167. 



172 



SAUCE FOB FISH. 



pilMcalUs, 



Jelly, datee. 



qnliioas. pean. 



hoondflsh. rioe. 



nuunenj. 



If yoa don't liktt 
these potagos. 
taste tbem oaij. 



JTitfc 8auioe9. > 



824 Colice* of pike, shrympus^ / or perche, ye know 
fulle wele ; 
Partye gely / Creme of almondes * / d&tes in 

confite / to rekeuer Leele, 
Quinces & peris / Ciryppe with parcely rote* / 
rijt so bygyfl yowr mele. 

Mortrowis of houndfisch^ * / & Rice standynge* 
white, 
828 Mameny,^ mylke of almonde*, Eice rennyngd 
liquyte,— 
peae potages ar holsom for pern fat Lan delite 
peroi to ete / & if not so / Jjen taste lie but a lite." 

Satoa for gisc\t' 

"•rr^wre sawces to make y shalle geue yow 
* lerynge : 

1 CalliB (in Cookery) a strained Liquor made of any sort of 
dressed Meat, or other things pounded iu a Mortar, and pass'd 
thro* a Hair-sieve : These Cullises are usually pour'd upon Messes, 
and into hot Pies, a little before they are sery'd up to Table. 
Phillips. See also the recipe for making a coleise of a cocke or 
capon, from the Haven of Healthy in Nares. Fr. Gottlia : m. A 
cullis, or broth of boiled meat strained ; fit for a sicke, or weake 
bodie. CotgraTe. 

* Shrimps are of two sorts, the one crookbacked, the other 
straitbacked : the first sort is called of Frenchmen Caranwts de la 
tantiy healthful shrimps ; because they recover sick and consumed 
persons ; of aU other they are most nimble, witty, and skipping, 
and of best juice. Muffett^ p. 167. In cooking them, he directs 
them to be " unsealed, to vent the windiness which is in them, being 
sodden with their scales ; whereof lust and disposition to venery 
might arise," p. 168. 

' See the recipe for '* Creme of Almonde Mylk," Household 
Ordinanceti p. 447. 

*"Mortrewe8 of Fysshe," JT. Ord. p. 469; «*Mortrews of 
fysshe," Z. C. C. p. 19. 

6 See " Rys Lumbarde," m Ord. p. 438, 1. 3, * and if thow wilt 
have hit stondynge, take rawe ^olkes of egges^' &c. 

* See p. 53 above. 

^ * Let no fish be sodden or eaten without salt, pepper, wine, 
onions or hot spices ; for all fish (compared with fiesh) is cold and 



lOHN BU8SELL8 SOKE OF NURTURE. 173 

832 Mustard is Wis metest yriih alld maner salt MntUrd for salt 

herring, 

herynge, 
Salt fysche, salt Congur, samouTi, wiVi sparlynge,* <»^»^* 
Salt ele, salt inakerell«, & also withe merlynge.* mackerel, *c 

Vynegur is good to salt purpose & torrentyne,* vinegM-foraait 
836 Salt sturgeon, salt swyrd-fysche savery & fyne. iwordfish ftt 
Salt Thurlepolle, salt whale,*^ is good vriih egrc ^^^*"'''^' 

wyne, 
withe powdur put per-oh shalle cawse oofl welle ^**> powder. 

to dyne. 
Playce wtt^ wyne ; & pike withe his reffett ; ^^^ for pwoe. 

moist, of little noarishment, engendring watrish and thin blood.* 
Jfufettf p. 146, with a curious continuation. Ifoe Sinapium^ Avfi*- 
muBtarde. 

Salgia, sirpillum, piper, alia, sal, petrocillum. 
Ex hiis sit salsa, non esf sentencia falsa. 

15th cent. Pict. Vocah. in Wright's Voc. p. 267, col. 1. 

1 P M repeated by mistake. 

' Spurlings are but broad Sprats, taken chiefly upon oar 
Northern coast; which being drest and pickled as Anchovaes be in 
Provence, rather surpass them than come behind them in taste and 
goodness. . . As for Red Sprats and Spurlings, I vouchsafe them 
not the name of any wholesome nourishment, or rather of no 
nourishment at all ; commending them for nothing, but that they 
are bawdcs to enforce appetite, and serve well the poor mans turn 
to quench hunger. Muffett, p. 169. 

* A Whiting, a Merling, Fr. Merlan, * Merling : A Sioek-Jish, 
or Marliwfy else Merling ; in Latine Marlantu and Marlangua* 
R. Holme, p. 333, col. 1. 

^ After searching aU the Dictionaries and Glossaries I could get 
hold of in the Museum for this Torrentyne^ which was the plague 
of my life for six weeks, I had recourse to Dr Giinther. He searched 
Rondelet and Belon in vain for the word, and then suggested 
Aldroyanui as the last resource. In the De I*iscibu8y Lib. V., I 
accordingly found (where he treats of Trout), *'Scoppa, gram- 
maticus Italus, Torentinam nominat, rectius Torrentinam vocaturus, 
h torrentibus nimirum: in his n[ominatim] & riuis montanis 
abundat." (ed. 1644, cum indice copiosissimo.) 

* Whales flesh is the hardest of all other, and unusuoll to be 
eaten of our Countrymen, no not when they are very young and 
tendcrest ; yet the livers of Whales, Sturgeons, and Dolphins 
smell like violets, taste most pleasantly being salted, and g^ve 
competent nourishment, as Cardan writeth. Muffett, p. 173, ed. 
Bennety 1655. 



174 



sauob fob fish. 



Oftkntinefor 
lamproy. 



Yerjnlee for 
mallet. 
Giimamon for 
baae, carp, and 
chub. 

Oarilo. reijaioe, 
and pepper, 



for hoondflBh, 



•tockflah, ftc 



[Fol. 184.] 
YineRar, cinna- 
mon, and ginger, 
for fresh-water 
crayflah, 

fireah porpoiae, 



Bturgeon, Jkc 



Green Sanoe for 
green fish <Creah 
Ung): 



840 fe galantyne* for J>e lamprey / where J>ey may 

be gete; 
verdiua' to roclie /darce / breme /soles / & molett ; 
Baase, flow[n]dur8 / Carpe / Cbeven / Synamome 

ye per-io sett 

Garlek / or mustard, vergeus ferto, pepwr ^e 

powderynga — 
844 For ]>omebak / houndfyscbe / & also fresche 

herynge, 
hake* stokfyshe^haddok*/ cod^/& whytynge — 
ar moost metist for thes mete«, as techithe ys pe 

wiytynge. 

Vinegre/powdur withe synamome / and gyngere, 
848 to rost Eles / lampumes / Crevej dew dou^, and 

breme de mere, 
For Gurnard / for roche / & fresche purpose, if 

hit appere, 
Fresche sturgeofi / shrympes / perche / molett / 

y wold it were here. 

Cfrene sawce^ is good wM grene fisch^ y here say; 

^ See the recipe in Ziber Cfure Cowrutnj p. 30 ; and Felettes in 
Galentyne, E, Ord. p. 433. 

' Veriuse, or sauae made of grapes not full ripe, Ompharium, 
"Withals. 

' Hakes be of the same nature [as Haddocks], resembling a Cod 
in taste, but a Ling in likeness. MuffetU p< 1^3. 

^ * Stocke fysshe, they [the French] have none,' says Palsgrave. 

B Haddocks are little Cods, of light substance, crumbling flesh, 
and good nourishment in the Sommer time, especially whilst 
Venison is in season. Muffett^ p. 153. 

* Eeling. E. Holme, xxiv, p. 334, col. 1, has <* He beareth 
Cules a Cod Fish argent, by the name of Codling, Of others termed 
a StoekJUhy or an Haberdine : In the North part of this Kingdome 
it is called a Keling^ In the Southeme parts a Cod, and in the 
Westeme parts a Weltceliy 

"* See the Recipes for * Pur yerde sawce,' Ziber Cure^ p. 27, and 
* Vert Sause' (herbs, bread-crumbs, yioegar, pepper, ginger, &c.), 
H. Ord.'p. 441. Grcne Sause, condimentum harbaceum. Withals. 

^ Ling perhaps looks for great extolling, being counted the beefe 
of the Sea, and standing ercry fish day (as a cold supporter) at my 



lOHN RUS8ELL8 BOKB OP NTJRTURB. 175 

852 botte Ijnge / brett ' & frescbe turbut / gete it who 
80 may. 
yet make moche of mnstard, & put it not away, MaturdiBbest 

- for vwttj dish. 

For yfi\h enerj dische be is dewest / wbo so lust 

to assay. 
Other sawces to sovereyns ar serued in som other mnoM are 

aenrwl at gruid 

Solempne festis, feaati, bat the 

, ^ „ „ , - aboTo wUl pleaee 

856 but these will plese them imle wme / pat ar but fiuniuargQesta." 
hoomly gestis. 
Kow have y shewyd yow, my soft, somewhat of 

dyu^rse lestis 
])at ar remembied in lord^ courte / ]>ere as all 
lialte restis/' 

" TMfOw fayre falle yow fadir / in faythe y am JJ^^^*^"* 
^ full fayfi, 
860 For louesomly ye ban lered me fe nurtur fat ye ^*J\^^JJ2|?* 
ban sayfl ; ^'** 

pleseth^ it you to certifye me with oofl worde or pieawteiiine, 

twayli 
be Curtesy to conceue conveniently for eucry too.thedatieeof 

. - - ,, a Ohamberliln." 

chamburlayfi. 



The CftatnAerloto't 
Dutiu. 



" fllhe Curtesy of a cliambnrlayfi is in o£fice to HamiHtiw 
■■■ be diligent, *"*"'• 

Lord Maiors table ; yet it is nothing bat a long Cod : whereof the 
greater sised is called Organe Ling, and the other Codling, because 
it is no longer then a God, and yet hath the taste of Ling : tohiltt 
it is new it it called obeen-fish ; when it is salted it is called Ling, 
perhaps of lying, because the longer it lyeth . . the better it is, 
waxing in the end as yellow as the gold noble, at which time they 
are worth a noble a piece. Muffett^ p. 154-6. 

^ A brit or turbret, rhombus, Withals, 1556. Bret, Brut, or 
Burt, a Fish of the Turbot-b'nd. Phillips. 

' These duties of the Chamberlain, and those of him in the Ward- 
robe which follow, should be compared with the chapter Ik Officio 
Gareiomm of <'The Boke of Curtasye" IL 435^520 below. See 
also the duties and allowances of ' A Chamberlayn for the King* 



176 



THE OFFICE OFF A CHAMBUBLAYNE. 



neatly dressed, 
ciean-waBhed, 

earef ttl of lire and 
candle, 



attentive to hia 
master. 



light of ear. 



looking ont for 
things that will 
please. 

The Ofaamberlain 
most prepare for 
his lord 

a clean shirt. 



under and upper 
coat and doublet, 



breeches, sodKS, 

and slippers as 
brown as a water- 
leech. 



In the morning. 



must have dean 
linen ready, 
wanned by 

a dear Are. 



864 Clenli clad, his clofis not all to-rent ; 

handis <& face waschen f&jre, his hed well kempt ; 
& war eu^ of fyr^ and candille ])at he be not 
neccligent. 

To youre mastir looke ye gene diligent attend- 



annce ; 



868 be curteyse, glad of chere, & light of ere in euery 

semblaunce, 
euer waytynge to fat thynge fat may do hym 

plesaunce : 
to these propurtees if ye will apply, it may yow 

welle avaunca 

Se that youre soucrayne haue clene shurt & 

breche, 
872 a petycote/ a dublett, a longe coote, if he were 

suche, 
his hosyii well brusshed, his sokke* not to seche, 
his shofi or slyppers as browne as is f e watz^r- 

leche. 

In pQ morow tyde, agaynst youre souey-ayne doth 

ryse, 
876 wayte hys lynnyfi fat hit be clene ; fen warme 

hit in pis wise, 
by a clere fyre wMowt smoke / if it be cold or 

frese, 
and so may ye youre souerayn pleso at f e best 

asise. 



JET. Ord. p. 31-2. He has only to see that the men under him do 
the work mentioned in these pages. See office of Wardcrobe of 
Bedds, K, 0, p. 40 ; Gromes of Chambyr, z, Pages of Chambre, 
nil, H. 0,, p. 41, &c. The arraying and unarraying of Henry 
YIJ. were done by the Esquires of the Body, H, Ord. p. 118, two 
of whom lay oatside his room. 

^ A short or small coat worn under the long over-coat. Fetycofe, 
tunietdat P. P., and * .y petticote of lynen clothe withonght slyvcs.* 
there cit^Kl from Sir J. Fasto^fe's Wardrobe, 1459. ArchsDol. xxi. 
253. Htbiicula, le, eat eiiam genua intima veatia, a peticote. Withals. 



lOHN RUSSBLL8 BOKE OF NURTURE. 177 

Agayne he risoth vp, make redy youre fote shete when Ua lord 
880 in Jis maner made greithe / & Jat ye not forgete ready the foot- 
furst a chayere a-fore be fyre / or som ober honest put* a cushioned 

'^ ^ '' ' ^ chidr before the 

sete fl". 

[Fol. 184 b ] 

Withe a cosshyn J>er vppofi / & a nojwr for the a cushion for the 
feete / 

aboue be coechyfl & chayere be said shete ouer and over aii 

' '^ J r spremdi the foot- 

Sprad sheet; 

884 So J^at it keuer \^ fote coschyn and chayere, ri3t 
as y bad; 
Also combe & kercheflf / looke bere bothe be had has a comb and 

kerchief ready, 

youre souereyii hed to kymbe or he be graytly and then 
clad: 

Tha^ pray yonre souereyfi wit^ wordus man- asks his lord 
suetely 
888 to com to a good fyre and aray hym ther by, to come to the Are 

o -^ -^ •' •" aaddztvBwhUe 

and there to sy tt or stand / to his pe7"Sone pies- be waiu by. 

auntly, 
and ye ener redy to awayte witit manors metely. 

Furst hold to hym a petycote aboue youre brest i. oire your 

master his under 

and barme, coat, 

892 his dublet J^afi aftur to put in boj^e hys arme, s. His doublet, 
his stomachere welle y-chaffed to kepe hym fro ^ stomacher wcii 

warmed, 

harme, 
his vampeys* and sokkes, Jan all day he may go *• vampeysand 
warme ; 

* Vamps or Vampaysy an odd kind of short Hose or Stockings 
that cover'd the Feet, and came up only to the Ancle, just above 
the Shooe ; the Breeches reaching down to the Calf of the Leg. 
Whence to graft a new Footing on old Stockings is still call'd Vamp' 
ing, Phillips. Fairholt does not give the word. The Vampeys 
went outside the sock, I presume, as no mention is made of 
them with the socks and slippers after the bath, I. 987 ; but 
Strutt, and Fairholt after him, hare engrtved a drawing which 
shows that the Saxons wore the sock over the stocking, both being 
within the shoe. * Yampej of a hose — auant pied, Yauntpe of a 
hose — uantpie* Palsgrave, a.d. 1467, 'fore vaunpynffe of a "pBLyre 
for the said Lew vj.d.' p. 396, Howard Household Book. 

12 



178 



THE OFFICE OFF A CHAHBURLATNB. 



6. Draw on his 

■ocks, breeches, 

and ihoea. 896 

6. Pnllnphis 
breeches. 

7. lie 'em up. 

a Laoehis 

doublet, 

a Put a kerefaief 900 

round his neck. 



la Comb his 
head with an 
ivory comb, 

11. Give him 
warm water to 
wash with, 

12. Kneel down 



and ask him what 004 
gown hell wear: 



13. Get the gown, 

14. Hold It out to 
him; 



15. Get his girdle, 

16L His Robe (see QQQ 

1. 957). 

17. His hood or 

hat. 



18. Before he goes Q1 O 



brush him 
careftdljr. 



Before your lord 
goes to church. 



916 



Then drawe oil his sokkis / & hosyn by the fure, 
his shofi laced or bokelid, draw them ofi sure ; 
Strike his hosyfi vppewarde his legge ye endure, 
fen trusse ye them vp strayte / to his plesure, 

Then lace his dublett euery hoole so by «fc bye ; 
ofl his shuldur about his nek a kercheff p&te 

must lye, 
and curteisly fan ye kymbe his hed with combe 

of yvery, 
and watur wanne his handed to wasche, & face 

also clenly. 

Xban knele a down ofi youre kne / & fu8 to youre 

souerayn ye say 
" SjVy what Robe or govfl pleseth it yow to were 

to day 1 " 
Suche as he axeth fore / loke ye plese hym to pay, 
fail hold it to hyffi a brode, his body f er-in to 

array; 

his gurdelle, if he were, be it strayt or lewse ; 
Set his garment goodly / aftur as ye know f e vse ; 
take hyin hode or hatt / for his hed cloke or 

cappe de huse ; 
So shallc ye plese hym prestly, no nede to make 

excuse 

Whef wr hit be feyre or f oule, or mysty alle withe 

reyfi. 
Or youre mastir depart his place, afore fat f is be 

seyfl, 
to brusche besUy about hym ; loke all be pur and 

playfl 
whef ur he were satefl / sendell, vellewet, scarlet, 

or greyn, 

Prynce or prelate if hit be, or any of er potestate, 
or he entur in to f e churche, be it erly or late, 



lOHN RUS8ELLS BOKE OF NURTURE. 179 

perceue all Jynge for his pewe Jat it be made ae« th»t ua pew 

Is nude ready, 

preparate, 
bo Je cosshyfi / carpet / & curteyn / hedes & boke, cushion, curtain, 
forgete not that. 

Xhan to youre souereynes chambur walke ye in Return to his 

• bedroom, 

hast; 
920 aU be clobes of be bed, them aside ye cast : throw off the 

J^ r r > J > clothes, 

J)e Fethurbed ye bete / without hurt, so no beat the feather- 

feddurs ye wast, 
Fustiafi' and shetis clene by sight and sans ye see that the ftistian 

and sheets are 
tast. dean. 

Kover Wit^ a kenerlyte clenly / bat bed so Cover the bod 

•^ .^ f r with a coverlet, 

manerly made ; 
924 fe bankers <& quosshyns, in ))e chambur se fern «p«»doutthe 
feire y-sprad, cushions, 

bo>e hedshete A pillow also, >at J)e[y] be saaff JJJ^"*^^^ 

vp stad, 
the vmelle & basofi also that they awey be had. "TT^JJ'* '"'^^ 

[Fol. 18&] 

Se the carpettw about be bed be forth spred & i»7 carpets round 

^ '^ '^ the bed. and with 

laid, 
928 wyndowes & cuppeborde wM carpettw & ^ndJ^d*** 
cosshyns splayd ; ~'*^- 

Se Jer be a good fyre in Je chambur conveyed, 
vriMi wood & fuelle redy ]>e fuyre to bete & aide. 

Se te privehouse for esement ^ be fayre, soote, & Keep the Privy 

^ r r J > ^^ sweet and dean. 

clene, 
932 & Jat ]>e border fer vppon/be keuered withe cover the boards 

with green doth, 

clothe leyre & giene, 

> Henry YII. had a fustian and sheet under his feather bed, 
over the bed a sheet, then * the oyer fustian above,' and then ' a 
pane of ermines ' like an eider-down quilt. ' A head sheete of 
raynes ' and another of ermines were oyer the pillows. After the 
ceremony of making the bed, all the esquires, ushers, and others 
present, had bread, ale, and wine, outside the chamber, ^ and soe 
to drinke altogether.' M, Ord, p. 122. 

^ A siege house, aedes exerfmentorunu A draught or priuie, 
latrina. 

12* 



180 



THE CHAMBERLAIN IN THE WARDEROBES. 



so that no wood 
Bhowiatthehole; 
put a cufihion 
there. 



and hare lome 
blanket, cotton, or 
linen to wipe on ; 

have a basin, 
Jng, and towel, 
ready for your 



lord to wash when 
he learee the 
prlry. 



936 



& J)e hoole / hym self, looke fer no borde be sene, 
feroa a feire quoschyn / fe ordoure no mail to 

tene 
looke fer be blanket / cotyfl / or lynyfl to wipe 

J)e nepur ende^ ; 
and euer whefl he clepithe, wayte redy & entende, 
basou/2 and ewere, & onyowrshuldur a towelle, 

my frende * ; 
In j^is wise worship shalle ye wyn / where pat 

euer ye wende 



C^e Wnthmki.^ 



In the Wardrobe 
take care to keep 
the clothee well, 
and brush 'em 



with a soft brush 



at least once a 
week, 

for fear of moths. 



Look after your 
Drapery and 
Bkinnery. 




N pQ warderobe ye must mnche entende 
besily 
940 [ the robes to kepe well / & also to brusche 

pern clenly ; 
with the ende of a soft brusche ye brusche pern 

clenly, 
and yet ouer moche bruschynge werethe cloth 
lyghtly. 

lett neuer woUyn cloth ne furre passe a seuenyght 
944 to be vnbrosshen & shakyn / tend Jjerto aright, 
for moughte* be redy euer in pern to gendur & a- 

lijt; 
ferfore to drapery / & skynnery euer haue ye a 
sight. 

^ An arse wispe, penicillum, -li, rel anitergrium. Withals. From a 
passage in William of Malmesbnry's autograph De Gestia I^tiJIcum 
Anglorum it would seem that water was the earlier cleanser. 

2 In the MS. this line was omitted by the copier, and inserted 
in red under the next line by the corrector, who has underscored all 
the chief words of the text in red, besides touching up the capital 
and other letters. 

3 See the *• Warderober,' p. 37, and the ^ office of Warderobe of 
Robes,' in B, Ord, p. 39. 



lOHN RUSSELLS SOKE OF NURTURE. 181 

youre souerayfi aftir mete / hia stomak to digest if jour lord wiu 
948 yef he willc take a slepe / hym self Jerc for to ui meai. 
rest, 
looke bothe kercheff & combe / bat ye haue bere have ready 

' '^ ' kerchief, comb, 

prest, 
bothe pillow & hedshete / for hyffi J)e[y] must be puiow and head- 

sheet 

drest; 

yet be ye nott ferre hym fro, take tent what y say, 
952 For moche slepe is not medcynable in myddis of 2**°'\Jjf ,^i 

Je day. 
wayte J^at ye haue watur to wasche / & towelle water and towei. 

alle way ' 

aftur slepe and sege / honeste will not hit denay. 

lAf hafi youre souerayne hathe supped / & to When he goes to 

chambi^r takithe his gate, 
956 Jan sprede forthe yourc fote shete / like as y lered i- spwad oat the 

yow late j 
than his gowne ye gadir of, or garment of his J- Take off your 

estate, 
by his licence / & ley hit vpp in suche place as wd put it away 

ye best wate. 

vppon his bak a mawtell ye ley / his body to Jj/JjJ. J ^**^ ^° 

kepe &om cold, 
960 Set hym ofl his fote shete * / made redy as y yow J;^2hw^ ""^ ^^ 

told; 
his shon, sokkis, & hosyfi/to draw of be ye bolde; fh^!»cks,*and 
J)e hosyn on youre shuldyr cast / ofl vppofi yowr **"Sori86b] 

arme ye hold : J- Th~w the 

•^ ' breeches oyer 

youre souereynes bed ye kembe / but fiirst ye rcomibhis head, 
knele to ground ; 
964 \q kercheff and cappe ofi his hed / liit wolde be keSiief°a^d* 
warmely wounde ; nightcap, 

^ )>o lord^ schalle shyft hys gown^ at ny^t, 
Syttand on foteshete tyl he be dy^t. 

The Bohe of Curtate, 1. 487-8, below. 



182 



TO PUT A LORD TO BED. TO MAKB A BATH. 



9. Have the bed. 
and headsheet, 
Ac., ready, 



la Draw the 

curtains. 

IL Setthenlght- 

Uffht, 



12. Drive oat 
dogs and cata. 



13. Bow to your 
lord. 



14. Keep the 
night-stool and 
urinal ready for 
whenerer ha calls, 

and take it back 
when done with. 



his bed / y-spred / J>e shete for fe bed / pe 

pelow prest pat stounde, 
Jat wheii youre souereyn to bed shall go / to 

slepe peie saaf & sounde, 

The curteyns let draw fern pe bed round about ; 
968 se his morter * with wax or perchere* fat it go not 

owt ; 
dryvo out dogge and catte, or els geue pern a 

clovt; 
Of youre souerayne take no leue*; / but low to 

hym alowt. 

looke ])at ye haue pe basofi for chambur & also 

pe vmalle 
972 redy at alle howres whefk he wille clepe or calle : 
his nede performed, j>e same receue agayfl ye 

shalle, 
& Jus may ye haue a thank / & reward when pat 

euer hit faUe. 



^010 topnpart 
aBath. 



Hang round the 
roof, sheets 



fall of sweet 

herbs, 

have flTo or tUx 

sponges to sit or 

lean on. 



% M\t jor sitiat $a tnM. 



^eff youre souerayne willt? to pe bathe, his 

body to wasche clene, 
976 hang shetis round about fe rooff; do thus as y 

meene ; 
euery shete full of flowres & herbis soote & grene, 
and looke ye haue sponges .v. or vj. peroU to 

sytte or lene : 

1 Morter . . a kind of Lamp or "Wax-taper. Mortarium (in 
old Latin records) a Mortar, Taper, or Light set in Churchea, to 
bum over the Graves or Shrines of the Dead. Phillips. 

a Perchers, the Paris-Candles formerly ns'd in England; also 
the bigger sort of Candles, especially of Wax, which were com- 
monly set upon the Altars. Phil. 

» The Boke of Curtasye (see 1. 519-20 below) lets the (chief) 
usher who puts the lord to bed, go his way, and says 

3orao» vssher be -fore \>e dore 
In vtter chambM/* lies on \>e fiore. 



lOHN RUSSBLL8 BOKB OP NURTURE. 183 

looke per be a gret sponge, fer-ofi youre souer- •n*' <>»« ««»* 
ayne to sytt ; 
980 ferofi a shete, & so he may "bathe hym fere a with a sheet over 
fytte; 

vndir his feete also a sponge, jiff fer be any to *°**^^* 

putt; 
and alwey be sure of Je dur, & se fat he be shutt ^^ **»• ^^^'* 

A basyfi fuU in youre hand of herbis bote & ^^^rh^"^""^ 
fresche, 
984 & with a soft sponge in hand, his body bat ye wMhhimwitha 

^ > ^ softiponge, 

wasche ; 
Eynse hylh with rose watur wanne & feire throw ro»-water 

•' ^ on him; 

vppofk hym flasche, 
fen lett hym go to bed / but looke it be soote & i«t him go to bed. 
nesche ; 

but furst sett ofl his sokkis, his slyppers oil his Pnt ue socks 

and slippers on. 

feete, 
988 fat he may go feyre to f e fyre, fere to take his •*»n^ i»*m oo *»*■ 
fob) shete, 
ban withe a clene clothe / to wype awev all wete ; ^p« wm diy, 

^ I Jr J y take him to bed 

thafl brynge hyih to his bed, his bales there to tocurehia 

troubles. 

bete." 



f jjt m\m ^^ » fcat||« nwliuinalile.' ^;^b^ 

Holy hokke / & yardehok * / peritory ' / and C*"®^- ^^-^ 
f e brown fenelle,* houyhock 

1 See note at end. Mr Gillett, of the Vicarage, Runham, Filby, 
Norwich, sends me these notes on the herhs for this Bathe Median* 
able :— **>Tabdbhok »= Mallow, some species. They are all more 
or less mucilaginous and emollient If Yarde = Virga ; then it 
is Marshmallow, or Malva Sylvestris ; if yarde = erde, earth ; then 
the rotundifolia. — ' Paritobt is Pellitory of the wall, parietaria. 
Wall pellitory abounds in nitrate of potass. There are two other 
pellitories : ' P. of Spain *— this is Pyrethrum, which the Spanish 
corrupted into pelitre^ and we corrupted peliire into pellitory. The 
other, bastard-pellitory, is Achillea Ttarmiea. — ^ Brown fenkellb 
e= probably Peucedanum offiemale^ or Hoss fennel, a dangerous plant ; 



184 

centaury, 
herb-benet. 



THE MARTNQ OF A BATHE MEDICINABLE. 

992 walle wort* / herbe lolifi* / Sentory ' / rybbe- 
wort * / & camamelle, 

hey hove ^ / heyrifF *® / herbe benet *^ / brese- 
wort '2 / & smallache/* 

certainly not Anethum Graveolens, which is always dill, dyle, dile, 
&c. — ^Rybbewort, Flantago /a/wvoto^dr, macibiginous. — 'Heyhovb 
s= OUchoma hederacea, bitter and aromatic, abounding in a principle 
like camphor. — •'^Heybifp^ harif= Galium Aparine, and allied 
species. Tiiey were formerly considered good for scorbutic diseases, 
when applied externally. Lately, in France, they have been admin- 
istered internally against epilepsy. — ^^ Bresbwobt ; if ^ brisewort 
or bruisewort, it would be Sambueus Ebulua, but this seems most un- 
likely. — Broke lempk = brooklime. Veronica Beeeabunga, formerly 
considered as an anti-scorbutic applied externally. It is yery 
inert. If a person fed on it, it might do some good, Le. about a 
quarter of the good that the same quantity of water-cress would do. 
— BiLOBES, probably = henbane, hyoseysmus niger. Compare 
Butch [Du. BiUerij Hexham, and German Bilse], Bil = byle = boil, 
modem. It was formerly applied externally, with marsh-mallow 
and other mucilaginous and emollient plants, to ulcers, boils, &c. 
It might do great good if the tumours were unbroken, but is 
awfully dangerous, ' So is Peucedanum ojtcinale. My Latin names 
are those of Smith : English Flora, Babington has re-named them, 
and Bentham again altered them. I like my mumpsimus better 
than their sumpsimus." 

> * The common Mallowe, or the tawle wilde Mallow, and the 
common Hockes' of Lyte's Dodoens, 1578, p. 581, Malua syhestris, 
as distinguished from the Malua saliva^ or ** Rosa vltramarina^ that 
is to say, the Beyondesea Rose, in Frenche, Matdue de iardin or 
cultiu^e , . in English, Holyhockes, and great tame Mallow, or 
great Mallowes of the Garden." The '* Dwarffe Mallowe . . is 
called Malua syluestris pumila,** 

' Peritory, pa;-*p^arui, vrseolaris^ vel astericum. "Withals. 

* ? The sweet Fennel, Anethum Graveolens^ formerly much used in 
medicine (Thomson). The gigantic fennel is {Ferula) Assafaetida. 

^ Sambuctu ebultts, Danewort. See Mr Gillett*s note for Book 
of Quintessence in Hampole*s Treatises. Fr. hieble^ Wallwort, 
dwarfe Eldeme, Danewort. Cotgr. 

« Erbe Ion', or Seynt lonys worte. Ferforata, fuga demonum, 
ypericon. P. Parv. ' Centaury. 

^ Ribwort, arfK>^AM«a. Rib woort or ribgrasse, p/anfa^o. Withals. 
Flantain petit. Ribwort, Ribwort Plantaine, Dogs-rib, Lambes- 
tongue. Cotgrave. Flantago larteeolatOy AS. ribbe, 

*o Haylife, an herbe. Palsgr. Galium aparine, hegerifan com^ 
grains of hedgerife (hayreve, or hayreff), are among the herbs pre- 
scribed in Leeehdoms, v. 2, p. 346, for " a salve against the elfin 
race k nocturnal [goblin] visitors, & for the woman with whom 



lOHN RUSSELLS SOKE OF NURTURE. ! 185 

broke lempk ' / Scabiose ^ / Bilgres / wildflax / BcaWoni, 
is good for ache ; 

wethy leves / grene otes / boyled in fere fulle soft, withy learo, 
9 96 Cast ]>eSi bote in to a vesselle / & sett youre ^^^ yj^^j ^^,4 
soverayn aUoft, ^^ * ^«^*' "* 

and su&e bat bete a while as hoot as be may a-bide : j^^^ >»"> <«» ** : 

^ '^ ' let him bear It M 

se J>at place be couered welk ouer / & close ofl tot as ha can. 
euery side ; 

and what dissese ye be vexed wUh^ grevaunce !JlJ!!?t**J2 
ouper peyn, 
1000 J)is medicyne shalle make yow hoole surely, as ^»*"c8rtaini j be 
men seyfl." " °»«° "v- 



The ZhUUtqfan 



* my lorde, my master, of lilleshulle abbot* Mar^i^ 

rphe office of a cownynge vschere or mar- 



shalle wit^-owt £Etble 



the devil hath carnal commerce." ^^ fferba Benedieta, Arens. 

^2 Herhe a fotdon. Fullers hearbe, Sopewort, Mocke-gillouers, 
Bruisewort. Cotgrave. "AS. 1. brysewyrty pimpernel, anagallis* 
Anagallisy brisewort.'' 61. RawUnson, c. 506, 01. Harl. 3388. 
Leechdoms, vol. 1, p. 374. 2. Bellis perennia, MS. Laud. 553, fol. 
9. Plainly for Hembriswyrt, daisy, AS. daffes eage, *' Consolida 
minor. Dapie is an herbe l^at sum men callet hembrisworte o|>er 
bonewort." Gl. Douce, 290. Cockayne. Leechdoms, t. 2, Glossary. 

^ Pertil de marais. Smallage ; or, wild water Farseley. Cot. 

^ Brokelyme fabaria, Withals. Veronica Beeabunga^ Water- 
Speedwell. ' HUomocey HUomoe^ brooklime (where lime is the Saxon 
name (Hleomoe) in decay), Veronica beccabunga, with V. anagaUU , . 
" It waxeth in brooks " . . Both sorts Zemmikcy Dansk. They were 
the greater and the less " brokelemke,*' Gl. Bodley, 536. " Fabaria 
domestica lemehe" Gl. Bawl. c. 607. . . Islandic Zemiki, Cockayne. 
Gloss, to Leeehdoms, y. 2. It is prescribed, with the two cent- 
auries, for suppressed menses, and with ptUeffium, to bring a dead 
child away, &c. lb. p. 331. 

' Scabiosa, the Herb Soaiiousy so caU'd from its Virtue in 
curing the Itch ; it is also good for Impostumes, Coughs, Pleurisy, 
Quinsey, &c. Phillips. 

' See the duties and allowances of * The Gentylmen Usshers of 
Chaumbre .1111. of £dw. IV., in H, Ord. p. 37; and the duties of 
Henry VIIPs Knight Marshal, ib. p. 150. 

^ This line is in a later hand. 



186 USHER AND HABSHAL : THE ORDER OF PRECEDENCE OF PERSONS. 



He muB t know 
the nuik and (ire- 
cedenceofall 
people. 



I. 1. The Pope. 

2. Emperor. 
9. King. 

4. Cardinal. 

6. Prince. 

6. Archbiahop. 

7. Royal Duke. 

II. Bishop, &c. 

III. 1. Viscount. 

3. Mitred abbot. 

3. Three Chief 
Justices. 

4. Mayor of 
London. 

IV. (The Knight's 

rank.) 

1. Cathedral 
Prior, Knight 
Bachelor. 

8. Dean, Arch- 
deacon. 

5. Master of the 
Rolls. 

4. Pulsn^ Judge. 

6. Clerk of the 
Crown. 



6. Mayor of 
Calais. 

[FoL 186 b.] 

7. Doctor of 
Divinity. 

8. Prothonotary. 

0. Pope's Legate. 



must know alle estate of the church goodly & 

greable, 
1004 and pe excellent estate of a kyng6 with his blode 

honorable : 
hit is a notable nurture / connynge, curyouse, 

and commendable. 

X^t Jffpt hath no peere ; 
^Emperowre is nex hym enery where ; 
Kynge corespondent; Jus nurture shalle yow 
lere. 
1()Q3 highe Cardynelle, fe dignyte dothe requere; 

Kyngis sone, prynce ye hym Calle ; 
Archebischoppe is to hym peregalle. 
Duke of J>e blode royalle, 
1012 bishoppe / Marques / & erle / coequalle. 

Y ycount / legate / baroune / suflfrigan / abbot 
wit^ mytwr feyre, 
( barovn of ))eschekere / iij. fe cheff lusticej / of 
london fe meyre ; 
Pryoure Cathedralle, myt?/r abbot without / 
a knyght bachillere 
1016 Pnoure / deane / archedekon / a knyght / J)e 
body Esquyere, 

Mastir of the rolles / ri3t Jus rykefi y, 
Vndir Justice may sitte hym by : 
Gierke of the crowne / & theschekere Coti- 
venyently 
1020 (^ Meyre of Calice ye may preferre plesaimtly. 

Provyncialle, & doctur diuyne, 
Prothonot?*r, aperfli to-gedur Jey may dyne. 

J?e popes legate or collectoure, to-gedwr ye 
assigne, 






"8 ^ 



1028 



lOHN RUSSELL8 BOKE OF NURTURE. 187 

I Doctur of bothe lawes, beynge in science digne. v. (The squiro'a 

rank.) 

ajT^ P^^ ^^^^ T^yfi meyre / & a londynere, liaws. 
Saigeaunt of lawe / he may with hym com- London. 

8. Seijeantof 

pere j Law. 

The mastirs of the Chauncery with comford & *• Magtere of 

" Chancery. 

chere, 



Jje worshipfuUe p?'echoure of pardoun in fat «• Preacher, 
place to appere. 

The clerked of connynge that hafi takefl degre, J^JJ*"**" "' 

And alle othur ordurs of chastite chosyii, & also ]^?*j^*' 

of pouerte, 

aUe parsons & vicaries bat ar of dignyte, s. Pareons and 

vicar*. 

1032 parische prestes kepynge cure, vn-to femloke ye o. Pariah Pricst*. 
se. 

For Je baliffe* of a Cite purvey ye must a space, lo. citj Baiiub. 
A yemafi of fe crowne / Saigeaunt of annes vrith **• 8«neMit at 

mace, 
A herrowd of Armes as gret a dygnyte has, la. Heralds 

1036 Specially kynge harrawd / must haue fe pnnci- uenid has first 

paUe place ; 

Worshipfulle merchaunde^ and riche artyficeiis, is. Merchants, 
Gentilmefi welle nurtured & of good manens, i^* Oenuemen. 
With gentilwommen / and namely lorde^ nur- ^ Oentiewomon 
rieria, 
1040 aUe these may sit at a table of good squyeris. ^1^ ~* "^^^ 

T 0, sofi, y haue shewid the aftur my symple i have now toid 

*■ wytte 

euery state af tir feire degre, to fy knowleche y JJ" *^ci^^ **' 

shalle commytte, 
and how bey shalle be serued, y shalle shew the •nd no* ri^ *«» 

' ** you 

3ett, 
1044 in what place aftur feire dignyte how Jey owght ^^ *^*y "*y ** 
to sytte : 



188 USHER & marshal: what people rank and dine together. 



L Pope, King, 
Prince, 
Azxshblahop 
and Duke. 



■«4 c8 



t! < 



^ 



n. Bishop, Mar- 
quis, Tiacount, 
EarL 

ITI. The Mayor 
of London, Baron, 
Mitred Abbot, 
three Chief 
Justices. Speaker, 



may sit together, 
two or three at a 
mem. 



1052 



lY. The other 
ranks (tliree or 
four to a meia) 

equal to a 

Knight. 

namely, 

unmitred Abbot, 



Dean, Master of 
the Rolls. 

[Pol. 187.] 
under Judges, 



Doctor of 
Dlrinlty, 

Prothonotary, 
Mayor of Calais. 



V. Other ranks 
equal to a Squire, 
four to a mess. 



1056 



" Pope, 'Emperowre / kynge or cardynalle, 
Prynce with goldyn rodde Eoyall<3, 
Archebischoppe / vsyfig to were pe palle, 
Duke / aUe j>ese of dygnyte owjt not kepe |>e 
haUe. 

Bisshoppes, Merques, vicount, Erie goodly, 
May sytte at .ij. messej yf fey be lovyngely. 
])e meyre of london, & a baron, an abbot myterly, 
the iij. chef Iustice3, fe spekere of Je parlement, 
propurly 

alle these Estates ar gret and honorable, 
fey may sitte in Chambur or halle at a table, 
.ij. or els iy. at a messe / jeff fey be greable : 
fus may ye in youre office to euery man be 
plesable. 

Of alle of er estate* to a messe / iij. or iiij. fus 

may ye sure, 
And of alle estatis fat ar egalle with a knyght / 

digne & demure, 
Off abbot & pWoure sauncj mytt^r, of convent 

fey hafi cure ; 
1060 Deane / Archedecon, mastwr of fe rolles, &ftur 

youre plesure, 

Alle the vndirlusticej and barounes of fe kynge* 

^^ • 

Eschekiere, 
a provincialle / a doctoure devine / or bof e 

lawes, f us yow lere, 
A prothonotwr aperfli, or f e popis collectoure, if 

he be there, 
1064 Also fe meyre of f e stapulle / In like purpose 

f er may appere. 

Of alle of Mr estate* to a messe ye may sette 

foure / & foure, 
as suche persones as ar peregalle to a squyere of 

honOure : 



lOHN BUSSELLS SOKE OF NURTURE. 189 

Sargeaiindetf of lawe / & hylli fat hath byli mey re BoijeMtB of Law, 
of londofl afome, LondoD. 

1068 and J>e mastyis of be chauncery, fey may not be Maate™ of 
forborne. 

Alle prechers / residencers / and persones fat |J[JJ^^*" "* 

ar greable, 

Apprentise of lawe In courtis pletable, Apprentices of 

Marchaunde* & Franklofij, worshipfulle & JjJ^I^*'** 

honorable, 
1072 fey may be set semely at a squyers table. 

These worthy ' Estates a-foreseid / high of re- 

nowne, 
Vche Estate syngulerly in halle shallfi sit Sr ^ ?*?;*•,**', 

•TO J lank shall lit at 

downe, 
that none of hem se othure / at mete tyme in ^^^^^^^ 
feld nor in towne, another. 

1076 but vche of fern self in Chambnr or in pavil- 
owne. 

X eff fe bischoppe of f e provynce of Caunturbuiy SSt!rt^ sLi 
be in f e presence of the archebischoppe of yorke ^^^^^l! 
reucrently, biahopofYork. 

f eire seroice shalle be kouered / vche bisshoppe 
syngulerly, 
1080 and in fe presence of f e metropolytane none ^i^^^^ 
of er sicurly. 

yeff bischopps of yorke provynce be fortune be The Bishop of 

syttynge 
In f e presence of f e pn'mate of Englond f afi Sjtore"the*** 

fey must be couered in alle f eyre se?nynge, 
1084 and not in presence of fe bischoppe of yorke 
fere apperynge. 

^Tow, sofi, y perceue fat for dyuerse cawses / somotimoa 

as welle as for ignoraunce, 
a merchaUe is put oft tymes ingret comberaunce aManhaiia 
^ royaUtf w foritUn wer wortfaj. 



190 USHER AND MABSHAL .* OF BLOOD ROTAL AND PROPERTY. 



passled by Lords 

of royal blood 

being poor, and 

othoTB not royal 

being rich; 1088 



also by a Lady of 
royal blood marry- 
ing a knight, 
and vice verai. 



The Lady of 
royal blood shall 
keep her rank ; 
the Lady of low 
blood shall take 
her husband's 
rank. 

Property is not so 
worthy as royal 
blood, 

80 the latter 
prevaila oyer the 
former, 

for royal blood 
may become King. 



1092 



1096 



The parents of a 
Pope or Cardinal 



most not presume 



to equality with 
their son, 



and must not 
want to sit by 
him. 



but in a separate 
room. 



[FoL 187 b.] 



A Marshal must 
look to the rank 
of every estate, 



1100 



1104 



For Bom lorde^ fat ar of blod royalle / & litelle 

of lyvelode per chaunce, 
and some of gret lyvelode / & no blode royalle 

to ayaunce; 

And som knyght is weddid / to a lady of royalle 

blode, 
and a poore lady to blod lyalle, manfulle & 

mygbty of mode : 
fe lady of blod royalle sballe kepe }>e state / fa,t 

she afore in stode, 
the lady of low blode & degre / kepe her lordis 

estate, y make hit good. 

The substauTice of lyvelode is not so digne / as 

is blode royalle, 
J)erfore blode royalle opteyneth fe souereynte in 

chambur & in halle. 
For blode royalle somtyme ti3t to be kynge in 

palle; 
of J)e whiche matere y meve no more : let god 

goueme alle ! 

Xhere as pope or cardynaUe in }>eire estate 

beyngc, 
J>at hafl fadur & modwr by theire dayes lyvynge, 
Jeire fadur or modir ne may in any wise be pre- 

sumynge 
to be egalle with theire sofi standynge ne sit- 

tynge: 

Therfore fadir ne moder / Jjey owe not to desire 
to sytte or stond by Jeyre son / his state wille 

hit not require, 
but by )>em self / a chambur assigned for them 

sure, 
Yn-to whom vche office ought gladly to do 

plesure. 

To the birthe of vche estate a mershalle must se, 
and f efl next of his lyne / for f eyre dignyte ; 



lOHN BUSSELLS SOKE OF NURTURE. 191 

fen folowynge, to officers afftere J>eire degre, 
1108 As chauncelere, Steward / Chamburleyfl / 
tresorerg if he be : 

More oner take hede he must / to aliene / com- "»^ <*® honour 

' ' to foreign visitors 

mers straongeres, 
and to straungers of f is land, resi[d]ent dwell- and residents. 

eres, 
and exalte Jem to honoure / if f e be of honest 

maneres; 
1112 J>ell alle oper aftur feire degre / like as cace 

requeres. 

In a manerable mershalle J)e cownynge is moost i^jSlf**"*^ 

commendable 
to haue a fore sight to straungers, to sett bem at *onid tunk 

° o » J- beforehand where 

be table : **• P^*<* strsngen 

^ > at the table. 

For if Jey haue gentille chere / & gydynge 
manerable, 
1116 pe mershalle doth his souereyii honoure / & he 
}>e more lawdable. 

% Jeff bow be a mershalle to any lord of bis land, if the King sends 

' ^ * an J messenger to 

y ff fe kynge send to J>y souereyfi eny his seruand your Lord 



by sand, 
' knyght 
Squyere 

5 J yomafi of be crowfi a . 
M ffrome m 



n 

s 



r barOUfi honorand reoelye Wm one 

degree higher 

knyght vrith hand **»*» w« "i^k. 



tg grome 



Squyere 

yeman in manere 
page g grome goodly in fere 

Childe I grome gentiUe lemere. 

1125 ^ hit rebuketh not a knyght / Jje knyge* grome to The ^'^yjjj^" 
sytte at his table, Knight or. 

■^ ' Marshal. 

no more hit dothe a mershalle of maners plesable ; 

and so from j)e hieat degre / to f e lowest honor- 
able, 
1128 if ]7e mershalle haue a sight perto, he is coTn- 
mendable. 



192 



THE DIFFERENCES OF MEN EQUAL IN BANK. 



A Hanhal mnst 
also nnderaUad 
the rank of 
Ooanty and 
Borough Offloen, 



CFol. 188.] 
and that a Knight 
of blood and 
property la above 

a poor Knight. 

the Mayor of 
London 

above the Major 
of Qaeenborougfa, 



the Abbot of 
Westminster 
above the pow 
Abbot of Tintem, 
[Fol. 168 a.] 



% Wisdom wolle a mershalle maneraboly fat ho 
vndirstand 
alle )>e worshipfullg officers of the comunialte 

of ])is land, 
of Shires / Citees / borowes ; like as fey ar 
rulandy 
1132 fey must be sett aitur felie astate dewe in degre 
as fey stand. 

% hit belongethe to a mershaHe to haue a fore sight 
of alle estatis of f is land in euery place pight. 
For festate of a knyght of blode, ly velode, & 
myght, 
1136 is not peregalle to a symple & a poouere knyght. 

^ Also f e meyre of londoii, notable of dignyte, 
and of queneborow * fe meire, no f ynge like in 

degre, 
at one messe fey owght in no wise to sitt ne be ; 
1 1 40 hit no f ynge besemethc / f erfore to suche semble 
ye se/ 

^ Also f e abbote of Westmynstere, fe hiest of f is 

lande / 
The abbot of tynteme * fe poorest, y vndirstande, 
fey ar bof e abbote^ of name, & not lyke of fame 

to fande ; 

' Qaeenborough, an ancient, but poor town of Kent, in the Isle 
of Sheppey, situated at the mouth of the river Medway. The chief 
employment of the inhabitants is oyster-dredging. Walker** 
Oaxeteer, by Kershaw^ 1801. 

' The Annual Receipts of the Monastery " de Tintema in 
Marchia Wallie," are stated in the Valor Ecd. yoI. vr, p. 370-1, 

and the result is 

£ 8. d. 

Stfmma totolis dar^ yalom dec' predict* cclviij t x ob* 

Decima inde xxt xvj Tj ob*q* 

Those of the Monasterium Sancti Petri Westm. are given at y. 1, 
p. 410—24, and their net amount stated to be £4470 2d. 

£ s. d. 

Et remanw^ clare H^MijiUiijclxx — ij q' 

Decima inde iij^xlrij — — q* 



lOHN BUS8ELLS BOKE OF NURTURE. 193 

1144 ^et.Tynteme wit/t Westmynster ahaHe nowjcr 
sitte ne stande. 

^ Also J)e Pryoure of Caunturbury, * a clieff churche t^e prior of 
of dignyte, 
And Je prioure of Dudley,' no f ynge so digne ^^^ **»« ^^^ ^ 

as lie : — 
jet may not Je prioure of dudley, symple of degre, 
1148 Sitte with Je prionre of Caunturbury: fer is 
why, a dyuersite. 

% And remembre euermore / aii rule fer is 
generalle : 
A pnoure Jat is a prelate of any churche Catbe- ?*^'^**^^'*® *■ 

dralle, Gathednl Charch 

abore any Abbot 

above abbot or prioure wiiJi-m the diocise sitte or Prior of hto 

dlooese, 

he shalld, ^ 

1152 In churche / in chapelle / in chambur / <& in 
halle. 

^ Eight so reuerend docturs, degre of xij. yere, pern » J>«;t«r ^'^ 
ye must assigne 
to sitte aboue hym / bat commensed hath but .ix. above one of 9 

" ' ^ (though the latter 

and ]7aughe ])e yonger may larger spend gold red be the richer). 
&, fyne, 
1156 jet shalle pe eldur sitte aboue / whepwr he 
drynke or dyne. 

^ like wise the aldremen, jef pey be eny where, the ow Aidermea 

^ The clear reyenue of the Deanery of Canterbury (Decan* Can- 
tuar") is returned in Valor Eccl. v. 1, p. 27—32, at £163 2Ld. 

£ B. d. 
Bern* clxiij — xxi 

Decima pars inde XTJ yj ij 

while that of Prioratus de Dudley is only 

£ 8. d. 
Stimma de claro xxxiiij — xvj 

Decima pars inde iij riij j ob'q' 

Vahr Ecckaiattiem^ y. 3, p. 104-5. 
' Dudley, a town of Worcestershire, insulated in Staffordshire, 
containing about 2000 families, most of whom are employed in the 
manufjEicture of nails and other iron wares. Walker ^ 1801. 

13 



194 



THE DUTIES OF THE USHER AND MARSHAL. 



aboTe the Tonng 
ones^uid 



1 the Master of a 

craft 

i, the ez-wardeo. 



Before ererj feast, 
then, think what 
people are coming, 
and tettle what 
their order of 
preoedenoe ia to 
he. 



If in doubt. 



ask your lord or 
the chief officer, 



and then jonll do 
wrong to no one, ' 



bat let all 



according to their 
birth and dignitj. 



Now I have told 
yon of 

Court Manners, 
how to manage 

in Pantry. 
Battery. Carving, 
and as Sewer, 

and Marshal, 



]>e yongere shalle sitte or stande benetlie ])e 

elder ri^t fere ; 
and oienery crafft)»e mastir aftur rule & manerc, 
1160 and ]>efi )>e eldest of]>em, J^at wardeii was )»e 

fore yere. 

% Soche poyntes, with many o}»e/*, belongethe to a 
mersliall ; 
pedore whensoeuer youre sovereyfl a feest make 

shall, 
demeene what estates shalle sitte in the hall, 
1164 J»afl resofl wit^ youre self lest youre lord yow 
caUe ; 

^ Thus may ye devise youre marshallynge, like as 
y yow lere, 
to J>e honoure and worshippe of youre souerRyfl 

euery where ; 
And jeff ye haue eny dowt / euer looke ]>at ye 
enquere, 
1168 Resorte euer to youre souereyne / or to j)e cheff 
officere ; 

^ Thus shalle ye to any state / do wronge ne pre- 
iudice, 
to sette euery pe^rsone accordynge wtt^-owtcft 

mys, 
as aftur J)e birthe / livelode / dignite / a-fore y 
taught yow this, 
1172 alle degrees of highe officere, & worthy as he is. 

% 7^ow good sofiy y haue shewed the / & 
^^ brought J>e in vre, 
to know J>e Curtesie of court / & these }»ow may 

take in cure, 
In pantry / botery / or cellere / & in kervynge 
a-fore a soverejrne demewre, 
1176 A sewer / or a me/'shalle : in pes science / y sup- 
pose ye byil sewre, 



lOHN RUSSELLS BOKE OF NURTURE. 195 

^ Which in my dayes y lemyd \vithe a prynce fulle •• i leamt with % 

.. Royal Prince 

royalle, 
with whom vschere in chambur was y, & mer- whose u«her and 

I 11 1 • 1 11 Marshal I was. 

snalle also in hall^, 
vnto whom allc Jese officere^f foreseid / J»ey euer aji otha offlc«n 
entende shall^, 
1180 £vir to fuMlle my commaundement wheQ Jiat y have to obey me. 
to \>em caile : 

For we may allow & dissalow / oure office is be ^^ ®*oe b the 

•^ ' '^ chief. 

cheeff 

In ceUere & spicery / & the Cooke, be ho loothe Jki*?t"r no^*" 
or leeff.* 

f Thus J>e diligences of dyuerse office3 y haue Aii'Sio^Srtoi 
shewed to be allone, may be aiied by 

« ' one man, 

1184 the which science maybe shewed & doofi by 
a syngcler * persone ; 
but fe dignyte of a prince reqw/rethe vche office J^^u^*^"^* 
must haue oofl ^ office to 

. i_ 1 • 1 • / 1 1 _ have its offloer, 

to be rewlere in his rome / a S6/niaund hym and a servant. 

. under him. 

waytynge on. 
% Moore-ouer hit requirethc euerich of bem in office w^ knowing 

" ^ . "^ their duties 

to haue perfite science, perfectly^ 

1188 For dowt and drede doynge his souereyil dis- 
plicence, 
hym to attende, and his gesti^ to plese in place to wait on their 

Lord and please 

where ])ey ar presence, his guests, 

that his souereyfi )>roughe his seruice may make 
grete congaudence. 

^ For a prynce to seme, no dowt he not / and god Do^few-to^enre 
be his spede ! 

^ Two lines are wanting here to make up the stanza. They 

must have been left out when the copier tamed his page, and began 
again. 

* The word in the MS. is i^ffU or ajfnglr with a line through 
the/. It may be for Bynffwlet, ainfffUuSy i. tfffiM/i^M, sunderly, 
Tocab. in £^. Ant, y. 1, p. 9, col. 1. 

13» 



196 



THE USHER AND MARSHAL IS THE CHIEF OFFICER. 



take good heed to 
your duties. 



Wfttcb, 



and jott need not 
fear. 



Touting is done 
only for those of 
royal blood. 

as a Pope, 
King. 



Puke, and Earl f. 
not below. 



Tssting is done 
for fear of poison: 



therefore keep 
your room secure, 
and duse your 
safe, for fear of 
tricks. 
A Prince's 



Steward and 
Chamberlain 



have the oTersight 
of all offices 



1192 Furper fafi his office / & fer-io let hyui take 
good hede, 
and his warde way te wisely // & euermore per-m 

haue drede ; 
J)us doynge his dewte dewly, to dowte he shalle 
not nede. 
% Tastynge and credence * longethe to blode & 
birth royalle,* 
1196 As pope / emperoure / Emperatrice, and Cai*- 
dynallc, 
kynge / queene / piynce / Archebischoppc in 

palle, 
Duke / Erie, and no mo / pat y to remembraunce / 

calle. 
^ Credence is vsed, & tastynge, for drede of poy- 
senynge, 
1200 To alle officers y-swome / and grete othe by 
chargynge ; 
perfore vche man in office kepe his rome sewr^, 

closynge 
Cloos howse / chest / & gardevyaii », for drede 
of congettynge. 
•f Steward and Chamburlayn of a pnnce of 
royalte, 
1204 Jjey haue / knowleche of homages, seruice, and 

fewte ; 
so pey haue ouersight of euery office / aftwr 

peire degre, 
1 Orcdenee as creanee . . a taste or essay taken of another man's 
meat. Cotgrave. 

» Compare The Soke of Curtasye, below, I. 495-8, 
No mete for mow schalU sayed be 
Bot for kynge or prynce or duke so fre ; 
For beiers of parannce also y-wys 
Metesbalb beseyed. 
3 Oardmanger (Ft,) a Storobonse for meat. Blount, ed. 1681, 
Garde-viant, a Wallet for a Soldier to put bis Victuals in. 
Pbillipp8,cd. 1701. 



lOHN RU8SELLS BOKE OF NURTURE. 197 

by wrytynge fe knowleche / & fe Credence to andofUBting, 
ouerse ; 

If TlierfoM in makyngc of his credence, it is to »nd ^^j ^^^ 
drede, y sey, 
1208 To merahsMe I sewere^ and kervere bey must tcii the Manhai, 

' ' " Sewer, and Carver 

allowte allwey, 
to teclie hym of his office / fe credence hym to *»®^ *° ^^ **• 

prey : 
]}us shalle he not stond in makynge of his cre- 
dence in no fray. 

T Jloore of }»i8 connynge y Cast not me to con- L**^!?"*S^on 

treve: this matter. 

1212 my tyme is not to tary, hit drawest fast to eve. 

fis tretyse Jjat y haiie entitled, if it ye entende ]^^^^ 

to preve, 
y assayed me self in youthe wit^-outen any rayt^Mmj 
greve, 

while y was yonge y-noughe & lusty in dede, 
1216 y enioyed I>ese maters foreseid / & to leme y "a* Si?'** ""*** 
. toke good hede ; 
but croked age hatha compelled me / & leue court *»°^ °®'^ *^^ 

° -^ ' oouipelt me to 

y must nede. ^*^^^ **»* ***"**= 

}»erfor6, sone, assay thy self / & god shallc be Jy m try yourself." 
spede." 

« TWrow feire falle yow, fadur / & blessid mote "BieMingonyou. 

Ill J 9 / Father, for this 

^^ ye be, 
1220 For pis comenynge / & fe cownyngc / Jjat y[e] yoar teaching of 
haue here shewed me ! 
now dar y do seruice diligent / to dyiiw's of Vo^ ^ •»»**J <*»™ 

dignyte, 
where for scantnes of conny7?ffe y durst no mafi where before i 
y-se. 

* The Boke of Curtasye makes the Sewer alone assay or tiste 
<alle the mete* (1. 763—76), and the Butler the drink (I. 786, 
below). 



198 



lOHN RUSSELLS REQUEST TO THE READER. 



[Fol. im.] 
I will try, and 
•hall learn by 
practice. 



May Ood reward 
yon for teaching 
met* 



So perfitely eetlic y hit perceue / my parte y 

wolle pr6ue and assay ; 
1224 boje by practike and exercise / yet som good 

leme y may : 
and for youre gentille lemynge / y am bound 

ewer to pray 
that oure lorde rewarde you in blis that lasteth 

aye." 



•• Good ion. and " Iff ow, good sofL thv Self wit/i othci bat 

allreadervofthlB Hi > © *> J r 

sballe J>e succede, 
Boke qr yitrturt, 1228 whiche J>us boke of nurture shalle note / leme, 

& ouer rede, 
pray for the sowle of lobfl Busselle, pai god 

do hym mede, 
Som tyme s&ruaunde wit/i duke vmfrey, due * of 
Glowcetwr in dede. 

For Jjat prynce pereles prayethe / & for suche 
other mo, 
1232 J>e sowle of my wife / my fa<iur and modir also, 
vn-to Mary modyr and mayd / she fende us 

from owre foe, 
and brynge vs alle to blis wheQ we shalle hens 
goo. AVEV.*' 



praj for the aool 
of me, John 
Boaaell, (lenrant 

of Hmnphreyy 
DnkeofOloa- 
eeeter ;) also for 

the Dake, my 
wife, fkther, and 
mother, that we 



may all go to 
bliaii when we 
die." 



Little book, 
commend me to 



all learners. 



and to the ex- 
perienced, whom 

Ip»7 

to correct its 
fkttlta. 



Any inch, 



Q^ft {brt^e lytelle boke, and lowly Jjow me 
commende 
1236 ynto aXLe jonge gentilmefi / fat lust to leme or 
entende, 
and specially to fern. ]>at han exsperience,prayng6 

J)e[m] to amende 
and correcte )»at is amysse, fere as y fawte or 
offende. 

^ And if so fat any be founde / as J>rou3 myfl 
necligence, 
1 The due has a red stroke throagh it, probably to cat it out 



lOHN RUSSBLLS BOKK OF NURTURE. 199 

1240 Cast fe cawse ofl my copy / rude / & bare of pnt to mj copy- 

, ins. 

eloquence, 
whiche to drawe out [11 haue do my besy dili- which i h»T© 

gence, eouid. 

ledily to reforme hit / by resofi and bettur 

sentence. 

^ As for ryme or resoi), pe forewryter was not to ThetranMriberis 

. . not to blame; 

blame, 
1244 For as be founde bit afome byiii, so wrote be he copied what 

was before htm, 

]>e same, 
and ])augb6 be or y in oure matere digres or 

degrade, 
blame neitbur of vs / For we neuyrc bit made : »>*<* neither of ne 

' •^ ' wrote it, 

^ Symple as y bad insigbt / somwbat be lyme y i onij oorreeted 

the liijrme. 

correcte ; 
1248 blame y cowde no mail / y baue no persone sus- 

pecte. 
Now, good god, graunt vs grace / oure sowles ood! grant m 

neuer to Infecte ! ''*** 

Jmfl may we regne in J>i regioun / eternally w«t^ to roie in Hearen 

tbyne electe. 



[Some word or words in large black letter have been cut off at 
the bottom of the page.] 



NOTES. 



S9 



1. 11-12. John Rassell lets off his won't- learns very easily. Willyam 
Bolleyn had a different treatment for them. See the extract from him on 
" Bozyng & Neckweede " after these Noteg. 

1. 49. See the interesting " Lord Fairfax's Orders for the Servants of his 
Honshold " [after the Civil Wars], in Bishop Percy's notes to the Northum- 
berland Household Book, p. 421-4, ed. 1827. 

1. 51. Chip . 'other .ij. pages .... them oweth to chippe bredde, but not 
too nye the crumrae.' H, Ord. p. 71-2, The " Chippings of Trencher-Brede 
in Lord Percy's household were used " for the fedyinge of my lords houndis. 
Percy H. Book, p. 353. 

1. 56. Trencher bread. Item that the Trencher Brede be maid of the Meale 
as it cummyth frome the Milne. Perei/ Household Book, p. 58. 

1. 66. Cannell, a Spout, a tap, a cocke in a conduit. Epistomiunu Fne 
canellet v» robinet, Baret. 

I. 68. Eaucet. Also he [the yeoman of the Butler of Ale] asketh allow- 
aunce for tubbys, treyes, taid/aucettes, occupied all the yeare before, ff, 
Ord, p. 77, 

L 74. Flffs. A. Borde, Introduction, assigns the gathering of figs to " the 
Mores whych do dwel in Barbary," . . " and christen men do by them, & they 
wil be diligent and wyl do al maner of seruice, but they be set most coroonli 
to vile things ; they be called slaues, thei do gader grapes and fyggeiy and 
with some of ^<^fygge9 they wyl wip ther tayle, & put them in the frayle." 
Pigs he mentions under Judeea. " lury is called y® lande of lude, it is a noble 
countre of ryches, plenty of wine & come. . . Figges and Baysions, & all 
other fnites." In his Begymeni, foL M. iii., Borde says of * Fygges. . They 
doth stere a man to veneryous actes, for they doth auge and increase the 
seede of generacion. And also they doth prouoke a man to sweate : wherfore 
they doth ingendre lyce.' . 

II. 74-95. Chese. 'there is iiij. sortes of Chese, which is to say, grene 
Cliese, softe chese, harde chese, or spermyse. Grene chese is not called 
grene by y« reason of colour, but for y« newnes of it, for the whay is not 
half pressed out of it, and in operacion it is colde and moyste. Softe chese 
not to new nor to olde, is best, for in operacion it is bote and moyste. 



lOHN RUSSELLS SOKE OF NURTURE. 201 

Harde chese is bote and drye, and euyll to djgest. Spermyse is a Chese the 
whiche is made with curdes and with the luce of herbes. . Yet besydes these 
.iiij natures of chese, there is a chese called a Irweue [rewene, ed. 1567] 
chese, the whiche, if it be well ordered, doth passe all other cheses, none 
excesse taken.' A. Borde, Udg, fol. I. i. See note on L 85. 

1. 78, 83. The Bill-berry or Windherry, R. Holme, Bk, II., p. 52, col. 1 ; 
p. 79, col. 1 ; three Wharl Berries or Bill-Berries . . They are termed 
Whortle Berries or Wind Berries, p- 81, col. 2. § xxviii. See the prose 
Burlesques, Beliq. Antiq.y v. 1, p. 82. Why hopes thu nott for sothe that 
ther stode wonus a coke on Seynt Pale stepuU toppe, and drewe up the 
strapuls of his brech. How preves thu that? Be all the .iiij. doctors of 
Wynbere holies, that is to saye, Yertas, Gadatiyme, Trumpas, and Dadyl- 
trymsert. 

1. 79. Fruits. These officers make provysyons in seasons of the yere 
accordynge for fmytes to be had of the Kinges gardynes withoute prises ; 
as cherryes, peares, apples, nuttes greete and smalle, for somer season ; and 
lenten, wardens, quinces and other ; and also of presentes geyyn to the 
Kinge ; they be pouryeyours of blaundrelles, pepyns, and of all other fmytes. 
H. Ord. p. 82. 

I. 80. Mr Dawson Turner's argument that the " ad album pulverem " 
of the Leicester Roll, a.d. 1265, was white sugar pounded (Pref. to House- 
hold Expenses, ed. 1841, p. li.), proves only that the ziiij lib, Zucari there 
mentioned, were not bought for making White powder only. 

II. 81-93. Crayme, * Rawe crayme undecocted, eaten with strawberyes, 
or hurttes, is a rurall mannes bajiket. I haue knowe^ such bankettes hath 
put men i;» ieobardy of theyr lyues.' A. Borde, Jbegymenty fol. I. ij. 

1. 82, 1. 93. Junket. The auncient manner of grateful suitors, who, hauing 
prevailed, were woont to present the Judges, or the Reporters, of their causes, 
with Comfets or other Jonkeis, Cotgrave, w. espice. 

1. 85. Cheese. Wban stone pottes be broken, what is better to glew 
them againe or make them fast ; nothing like the Symunt made of Cheese ; 
kuow therfore it will quickly build a stone in a drie body, which is ful of 
choler adust. And here m Euglande be diners kindes of Cheeses, as SufT. 
Essex, Banburie .&c. according to their places & feeding of their cattel, time 
of y« yere, layre of their Kine, clenlinesse of their Dayres, quantitie of their 
Butter ; for the more Butter, the worse Cheese. Bullein, fol. Ixxxv. 

1. 89. Butter, A. Borde, Introduction, makes the Flemynge say, 
Buttermouth Flemyng, men doth me call. 
Butter is good meate, it doth relent the galL 

1. 94. Tonset is hot Milk poured on Ale or Sack, having Sugar, grated 
Bisket, Eggs, with other ingredients boiled in it, which goes all to a Curd. 
R. Holme. 

1. 94. Toset ale is made with bote my Ike and colde ale ; it is a temperate 
drynke. A. Borde, Bjeg, G. iij. 

1. 98. Tr&Mihe:i\ The College servant ' Scrape Trencher,' R. Holme, Bk. 
III., Chap, iv., p. 099 [199], notes the change of material from bread to 
wood. . 



202 NOTES TO RUSSELLS BOKE OF NURTURE. 

1. 105. Hot wines & sweet or confectioned with spices, or very strong 
Ale or Beere, is not good at meales, for thereby the meat is rather corrupted 
then digested, and they ma^e hoi and $t\nking vapours to ascend Tp to the 
braines. Sir Jn. Harrington. Pre», of Healthy 1624, p. 23. 

1. 109. Reboyle. ' If any wynes be corrupted, reioyled, or unwholsome for 
mannys body, then by the comtroller it to be shewed at the counting bourde, 
so that by assent all snche pypes or vesselles defectife be dampned and cast 
uppon the losses of the seyd cbiefe Butler.' R, Ord. p. 73. 

L 109. Lete, leek. 'Purveyonrs of Wyne . . to ride and oversee the places 
there as the Kinges wynes be lodged, that it be saufely kept from peril of 
leeking and breaking of vessels, or lacke of hoopinge or other couperage, 
and all other crafte for the raokinge, coynynge, rebatinge, and other salva- 
tions of wynes, &c.* iT. Ord, p. 74. 

SWBTB WYNES, p. 8, 1. 118-20.* 

ai Generally: 

Halliwell gives under Piment the following list of wines from MS. 
Bawlinson. C. 86. 

Malmasyes^ Tires, and Rumneys^ 

With Caperikis, Campletes,f and Osueys, 

Vernuge^ Cute, and Raspays also. 

Whippet and Pyngmedo, that that ben lawyers therto ; 

And I will have also wyne de Ryne, 

With new maid Clarye^ that is good and fyne, 

Museadelly Terawtyne, and Bastard, 

With Ypocras and Pyment comyng afterwarde. 

MS. RawL C, 86. 
And under Malvesyne this : 

Ye shall have Spayneche wyne and Gascoyne, 

Rose coloure, whyt, claret^ rampyon. 

Tyre, capryck, and malvesyne, 

Sak, raspyce, alycaunt, rumney, 

Oreke, ipocrase, new made clary, 

Suche as ye never had. 

Interlude of the Four Elements (no date). 

Of the wine drunk in England in Elizabeth's time, Harrison (Holinshed's 
Chron. v. 1, p. 167, col. 2, ed. 1586) says, " As all estates doo exceed herin, I 
meane for strangenesse and number of costlie dishes, so these forget not to vse 
the like excesse in wine, in so much as there is no kind to be had (neither ahie 
where more store of all sorts than in England, although we have none grow- 
ing with us, but yearlie to the proportion of 20,000 or 30,000 tun and 
vpwards, notwithstanding the dailie restreincts of the same brought over 
vnto vs) wherof at great meetings there is not some store to be had. 
Neither do I meane this of small wines onlie, as Claret, White, Red, French, 

* See Maison Rtistigtte or The Country Farme, p. 630-1, as to the qualities of 
Sweet Wines. f See Campolet in *' The Boke of Eeruyng." 



lOHN BUSSELLS SOKE OF NUBTUBE. 203 

&c,, which amount to about fiftie- six sorts, according to the number of 
regions from whence they come : but also of the thirtie kinds of Italian, 
Grecian, Spanish, Ganarian, &c., whereof Vemagey CaUy pument, Baspiif 
Museadell, Romnie, Bastard, Tire, Oseie, Caprike, Clareie, and Malmesie, are 
not least of all accompted of, bicause of their strength and valure. Eor as I 
haue said in meat, so the stronger the wine is, the more it is desired, by 
means wherof in old time, the best was called Theologicumt because it was 
had from the cleargie and religious men, vnto whose houses manie of the laitie 
would often send for bottds filled with the same, being sure that they would 
neither drinke nor be serued of the worst, or such as was anie waies mingled 
or brued by the yintener : naie the merchant would haue thought that his 
soule should haue gone streight-waie to the diuell, if he should haue serued 
them with other than the best/' 

On Wine, see also Royal Rolls, B.M. 14 B. xix. 

/3. Specially: The following extracts are from Henderson's History of 
Jjicient and Modem Wines, 1824, except where otherwise stated : — 

1. Fernage was a red wine, of a bright colour, and a sweetish and 
somewhat rough flavour, which was grown in Tuscany and other parts of 
Italy, and derived its name from the thick-skinned grape, vemaccia (corre- 
sponding with the vinaciola of the ancients), that was used in the preparation 
of it (See Bacci. Nat. Yinor. Hist., p. 20, 62). It is highly praised by 
Redi.» 

2< Femagelle is not mentioned by Henderson. The name shows it to 
have been a variety of Vemage* 

3. 1. 118. Cute. '' As for the euii named in Latin Sapa, it commeth neere to 
the nature of wine, and in truth nothing els it is, but Must or new wine 
boiled til one third part and no more do remain ; & this cuit, if it be made 
of white Must is counted the better." HoUatuTs FUnies Nat, Hist,, p. 157. 
" (of the dried grape or raisin which they call Astaphis). . The sweet euit 
which is made thereof hath a speciall power and virtue against the Hsemor- 
rhois alone, of all other serpents," p. 148. ** Of new pressed wine is made 
the wine called Cute, in Latin, Sapa ; and it is by boiling the new pressed 
wine so long, as till that there remaine but one of three parts. Of new 
pressed wine is also made another Cute, called of the Latines Befrutum, and 
this is by boiling of the new wine onely so long, as till the halfe part be con- 
sumed, and the rest become of the thicknesse of honey." Maison Rustique, 
p. 622. ' Cute. A.S. Ca^ren, L. earenum, wine boiled down one-third, and 
sweetened.' Cockayne, Gloss, to Leechdoms. 

4. Fyment. In order to cover the harshness and acidity common to the 
greater part of the wines of this period, and to give them an agreeable flavour, 
it was not uuusiud to mix honey and spices with them. Thus compounded 
they passed under the generic name ofpiments,^ probably because they were 

* Vemage was made in the Genoese territory. The best was grown at San 
Gemignano, and in Bacd's time was in great request at Rome. The wine known as 
Vemaocia in Tnscany was always of a white or golden colour. Henderson, p. 996. 

t See the recipe for making Piment in HalliweU's Dictionary, s. v. 



204 NOTES TO BUSSELLS SOKE OF NURTURE. 

originally prepared by tbe pigmentarii or apothecaites ; and they were used 
much in the same manner as the liqueurs of modem times. Head. p. 283. 

The varieties of Piment most frequently mentioned are the 

HippocTM ^ Clarry, The former was made with either white or red wine, 
in which different aromatic ingredients were infused ; and took its name from 
tlic particular sort of bag, termed Hippocrates's Sleeve, through which it 
was strained. . Clarry, on the other hand, which (with wine of Osey) we have 
seen noticed in the Act 5 Richard II. (St. 1, c. 4, vin doulce, ou clarre\ 
was a claret or mixed wme, mingled with honey, and seasoned in much the 
same way, as may be inferred from an order of the 36th of Henry- III. 
respecting the delivery of two casks of white wine and one of red, to make 
Clarry and other liquors for the king's table at York (duo dolia albi vini et 
garhiofilacum et unum dolium rubri \VDibAclaretum faciendum). Henderson, 
p. 2S4. Hippocras, vinum Aromaticum. Withals. "Artificial! stuffe, as 
ypoerM & wormewood wine." Harmon, Descr. Brit., p. 167, col. 2, ed. 1586. 

Easpice. " Vin Rape," says Henderson, p. 286, note »• " a rough sweetish 
red wine, so called from its being made with uubruised grapes, which, having 
been freed from the stalks, are afterwards fermented along with them and a 
portion of other wine*"* Ducange has Raspice. Raspaticium, Ex racemis 
vinum, cujus prseparationem tradit J. Wecker. Antidot. special, lib. 2, § 6, 
page 518 et 519. Paratur autem illud ex raspaliis et vinaceis, una cum uvis 
musto immissis. Raspatia itaque sunt, qusB Yarroni et Columellse scopi, 
scopioneSf sibenelegitur; unde nostrum Baste. Dudange, ed. 1845. Baspeeia. . 
Sed ex relato longiori contextu palam est, Baspeciam nihil aliud esse quam 
vinum mixtis acinis aliisve modis renovatum, nostris vulgo BdpS ; hujus- 
cemodi enim vinum alterationi minus obnoxium est, ut hie dicitur de Baspeeia, 
Yide mox Baspetum, Yinum recentatum, Gallis Baspe, Charta Henrici Ducis 
Brabantiee pro Communia Bruxellensi ann. 1229 : Qui vinum supra was 
habuerity quod Raspetum vocatur, in tavernis ipsum vendere non potest, Yide 
fiecentatum. Ducange, ed. 1845. 

The highly-praised Baspatum of Baccius, p. 30-2, of which, after quoting 
what Pliny says of secondary wines, he declares, " id primiim aniroaduerti 
volumus k nostra ,posteritate, quod Lora Latinorum, quam deuterium cum 
Grtecis, et secundarium Yinum dixit Plinius, hvrt^ia, seu voriftbv Dios- 
corides, quodque rpvybv vocauit Galenus, cum Aquatis quibus hodie vtimur in 
tota Italia, & cum nouo genere, quod a delectabili in gustu asperitate, Baspa- 
turn vocat ; sinulem omnes bee Yoces habent sigiiificantiam factitii .s. ex aqua 
Yini. p. 30. Quod uini genus in Italia, ubi alterius uini copia non sit, 
parari simpliciter consuevit colore splendido rubentis purpura, sapore 
austero, ac dulcacido primis mensibus mox tamen exolescente, p. 31-2, &c. 
Baspice was also a name for Raspberries. It^m, genen^ to my lady Kingston« 
senxaunie bringing Strawberes and Respeces to my lady« grace xij d. Privy 
Purse Expenses of the Princess Mary, p. 31 ; and in his Glossary to this 

• Besides this meaning of rap4 (same as raspf), Cotgraye gives first " A verie 
small wine comming of water oast uppon the mother of grapes which have been 



lOHN RUSSELL8 SOKE OF NURTURE. 205 

book Sir P. Madden says, ' In a closet for Ladies 12mo. London, 1654, is a 
receipt " To preserve Raspices" and they are elsewhere called " RaspU' 
berries:* See " Delights for Ladies," 12mo. 1654.* 

6, Muscadelle of Grew : Bastard : Greke : Malvesyn. " The wines which 
Greece, Lauguedoc, and Sapine doe send vs, or rather, which the delicacie 
and voluptnonsnesse of oar French throats caase to be fetched from beyond 
the Sea, such as are Sacks, Muscadels of Frontignan, Malmesies, Bastards 
(which seeme to me to be so called, because they are oftentimes adulterated 
and falsified with honeyi as we see wine Hydromell to be prepared) and Cor- 
sick wines, so much vsed of the Romanes, are very pernicious unto vs, if we 
vse them as our common drinke. Notwithstanding, we prone them very 
singular good in cold diseases . . but chiefly and principally Malmesey." 
Stevens and Liebault's Maisou Rustique, or The Gountrey Farme, by R. 
Surflet, reviewed by Gerv. Markham, 1616. MuscadeU, viuum apianum. 
Withals. Mulsum, wine and honie sadden togethery swiete mne^ basterde or 
MuscadeU, Withals. William Yaughan says, " Of Muscadell, Malmesie, and 
browne Bastard. These kindes of wines are onely for maried folkes, because 
they strengthen the back.'* Naturall and Artijicial Directions for Healthy 
1602, p. 9. 

Andrewe Borde, of Physicke, Doctor, in his Aegyraent or Dyetary of 
helth made in Mou»tpylior, says, " Also these bote wynes, as Malmesey, wyne 
corse, wyne greke, Romanyke, Romney, Secke, Alygaune, Basterde, Tyre, 
Osaye, Muscadell, Caprycke, Tynt, Roberdany, with other bote wynes, be not 
good to drynke with meate, but after mete and with Oysters, with Saledes 
with fruyte a draughte or two may be suffered . . Olde men may drynke, as 
I sayde, hygh wynes at theyr pleasure. Furthermore all swete wynes, and 
grose wynes, doth make a man fatte." 

7. Bompney, Henderson, p. 288, says, "Another of the above-mentioned 
wines (in the Squire of Low Degree) designated by the name of the grape, was 
the Romenay, otherwise Romenay, Rumney, Romaine, or Romagnia. That 
it could not be the produce of the Ecclesiastical State, as the two last 
corruptions of the word would seem to imply, may be safely averred; for at 
no period, since the decline of the empire, has the Roman soil furnished any 
wines for exportation ; and even Bacci, with all his partiality, is obliged to 
found his eulogy of them on their ancient fame, and to confess that, in his 
time, they had fallen into disrepute." He argues also against the notion that 
this wine came from Romana in Aragon, and concludes that it was probably a 
Greek wine, as Bacci (Nat. Fin. Hist, p. 333) tells us that the wine from the 
Ionian Islands and adjoining continent was called in Italian Romania, — from 
the Saracen Rum-ilu Now this is all very well, but how about the name of 
Rampney ofModene or Modena, just outside the Western boundary of the 
Romagna, — not Meudon, in France, " amongst all the wines which we use 
at Paris, as concerning the red, the best are those of Coussy, Seure, Vaunes, 
and Meudon:' Maison Rustique, p. 642.— Who will hold to John Russell, 
and still consider Romney an Italian wine ? Eumneyy vinum resiuatum. 
Withals. 



206 NOTES TO RU6SELLS BOKE OF NURTURE. 

8. Bastard. Henderson ar^es against the above-qaoted (No. 6) supposi- 
tion of Charles Etienne's (which is supported by Cotgrave's Fin mielUy honied 
vine, baatardf Metheglin, sweet wine), and adopts Venner's account {Fia 
Eeda ad Fitam Longam\ that "Bastard b in virtue somewhat like to 
muskadell, and may also in stead thereof be used ; it is in goodness so much 
inferiour to muskadell, as the same is to malmsey." It took its name, Hend- 
erson thinks, from the grape of which it was made, probably a bastard 
species of muscadine. " One of the Tarieties of vines now cultivated in the 
Alto Bouro, and also in Madeira, is called basiardo, and the must which it 
yields is of a sweetish quality. Of the Bastard wine there were two sorts, — 
white and brown (brown and white bastard, Meagure/or Measure, Act iii. sc. 
2), both of them, according to Markham's report, "fat and strong; the 
tawny or brown kind being the sweetest." In TAe Ubelle of Englyseh 
Polycye, a.d. 1436 (Wright's Political Songt, v. 2, p. 160), * wyne bastarde * 
is put among the commodyetees of Spayne. 

9. Tire, if not of Syrian growth,'* was) probably a Galabrian or Sicilian 
wine, manufactured from the species of grape called tirio. Tyre, vinum 
Tyrense, ex Tyro insula. Withals. 

10. Ozey, Though this is placed among the " commodities of Portugal ** 
in some verses inserted in the first volume of Hackluyt's Voyages, p. 18S — 
Her land hath wine, osetf, waxe, and grain, — yet, says Henderson, " a passage 
in ValoLs' Description of France, p. 12, seems to prove, beyond dispute, that 
oseye was an Alsatian wine ; Auxoia or Osay being, in old times, the name 
constantly used for Alsace. If this conjecture is well-founded, we may pre- 
sume that oseye was a luscious-sweet, or straw-wine, similar to that which is 
still made in that province. That it was a rich, high-flavoured liquor is 
sufficiently shown by a receipt for imitating it, which may be seen in Mark- 
ham {English Housewife, 1683, p, 115), and i»e learn from Bacci (p. 350) 
that the wines which Alsace then furnished in great profusion to England as 
well as different parts of the continent, were of that description. In the 
* Bataille des Yins' we find the ' Yin d*Aassai * associated with the growths 
of the Moselle." Osey is one ' Of the commoditees of Fortiugalle/ Ubelle, 
p. 163. 

11. Torrentyne of Ebrew. Is this from Tarentum, Tarragon, or Toledo ? 
Whence in Ebrew land did our forefathers import wine P Mr 6. Grove says, 
" I should at first say that Torrentyne referred to the wine from some wady 
(Vulgate, torrens) in which peculiarly rich grapes grew, like the wady of 
Eschcol or of Sorek ; but I don't remember any special valley being thus 
distinguished as ^The Torrent* above all others, and the vineyards are 
usually on hill-sides, not in vallies." 

12. Greke Malevesyn, "The best dessert wines were made from the 
Malvasia grape ; and Candia, where it was chiefly cultivated, for a long time 
retained the monopoly," says Henderson. He quotes Martin Leake to 
explain the name, Monemvasia is a small fortified town in the bay of 
Epidaurus Limera. " It was anciently a promontory called Minoa, but is now 
an island connected with the coast of Lacouia by a bridge. The name of 



lOHN RUSSELL8 SOKE OF NURTURE. 207 

Monemvana, derived from the circumstances of its position {ji&vfi IfiPavia^ 
single entrance), was corrupted by the Italians to Malva»ia ; and the place 
being celebrated for the fine wines produced in the neighbourhood, Mahana 
changed to Malvoisie in French, and Malmsey in English came to be applied 
to many of the rich wines of the Archipelago, Greece, and other countries." 
[Researches in Greece, p. 197.) Maulmsey, vinum creticum, vel creteum. 
Withals. 

13. Caprik may have been a wine from the island of Capri, or Cyprus. 

14. Clarey. See above under Pifmeni, and the elaborate recipe for 

making it, in Household Ordinances, p. 473, under the heading '* Medicina 

optima et experta pro Stomacho et pro Capite in Antique hominem.*' Claret 

Wine, vinum sanguineum subrubrum, vel rubellum. Withals. ** The seconde 

wine is pure Claret, of a cleare lacent, or Yelow choler ; this wine doth 

, greatly norish and warme the body, and it is an holsome wine with meate." 
BuUein, fol. xj. 

1. 122. ^ice ; 1. 171. Spicerjf, Of " The commoditees and nycetees of 
Yenicyans and Florentynes," the author of the Libelle says, p. 171, 
The grete galees of Venees and Florence 
Be wel ladene wyth thynges of complacence, 
Alle spicerye and of grocers ware, 
Wyth swete wynes, aUe maners of chefifare. 
Apes, and japes, and marmusettes taylede, 
Nifles, trifles, that litelle have availede. 
And thynges wyth which they fetely blere cure eye, 
Wyth thynges not enduryng that we bye. 
1. 123. Turnsole. Newton*s Herbal, plate 49, gives Yellow Turnsole 
G(erarde), the Colouring Turnsole P(arkinson). 

1. 123. Tornesok, Achillea tormentosa, A.S. Soltcherf. ' This wort hath with 
it some wonderful divine qualities, that is, that its blossoms turn themselves 
according to the course of the sun, so that the blossoms when the sun is 
setting close themselves, and again when he upgoeth, they open and spread 
themselves.* Leechdoms, ed. Cockayne, v. 1, p. 155. 

1. 123, 141. OraHes are probably what are now called "Granes of 
Paradise," small pungent seeds brought from the £ast Indies, much 
tcsembling Cardamum seeds in appearance, but in properties approaching 
nearer to Pepper. See Lewis's Materia Mediea, p. 298; in North. H* 
Book, 

1. 131-2. I cannot identify these three sorts of Ginger, though Gerarde 
says : " Ginger groweth in Spaine, Barbary, in the Canary Islands, and the 
Azores," p. 6. Only two sorts of Ginger are mentioned in Parkinson's 
Herbal, p. 16 13. ' Ginger grows in China, and is cultivated there.' Strother's 
Harman, 1727, v. 1, p. 101. 

1. 141. Peper. '* Pepir blake " b one of the commoditees of the Januays 
(or Genoese). Libelle, p. 172. 

1. 177. In his chapter 0/ Prunes and Damysens, Andrew Borde says, Syxe 
or seuen Damysens eaten before dyner, be good to prouoke a m&wnes appc- 



208 NOTBS TO RU88ELIB BOKE OF NURTURE. 

tyde ; tbey doth mollyfie the bely, and be abstersjue. the skynne and the 
stones must be ablated and cast away, and not vsed. Begyment, N. i. b. 

1. 178. Ale. See the praise of the unparalleled liquor called Ale, Methe- 
glin, &c., in lohn Taylor's Drink and Welcome, 1637. In bis RegimetUy A. 
Borde says, " Ale is made of malte and water ; and they the wbiche do put any 
other thynge to ale than is rehersed, except yest, barme, or goddes good,* 
doth sophysticall there ale. Ale for an Englysshe man is a naturall drynke. 
Ale muste haue these properties, it must be fresshe and deare, it muste 
not be ropy, nor smoky, nor it muste haue no werte nor tayle. Ale shulde 
not be dronke under .v. dayes olde. Newe Ale is vuhplsome for all men. 
And sowre ale, and dead ale, and ale the whiche doth stande a tylte, is 
good for no man. Barly malte maketh better Ale than Oten malte or any 
other come doth : it doth ingendre grose humours ; but it maketh a man 
stronge. 

Beere is made of malte, of hoppes, and water. It is a naturaU 
drynke for a doche man. And no we of late dayes [1557 ?] it is moche vsed 
in Enghmd to the detryment of many Englysshe men ; specyaUy it kylleth 
them the whiche be troubled with the Colycke and the stone, and the strayne 
coylyon ; for the drynke is a cold drynke. Yet it doth make a man fatte, 
and doth inflate the belly, as it doth appere by the doche mennes faces and 
belyes." A. Borde, Eegyment, fol. G. ii. 

1. 191. Neck-towel. The neck-towelles of the pantrey, ewerye, oonfection- 
arye, comters, hangers, liggers, and all that is the Kinges stuffe. U. Ord. 
p. 85. 

1. 201. Saltt, Other two groomes in this office [of Panetry] to help 
serve the hall, or other lordcs, in absence of the yoman, and to cutte trench- 
ours, to make suites, &c. H, Ord,, p. 71. 

1. 213. Raynes. Towelles of raygnes, t-owelles of worke, and of playne 
clothe. H. Ord., pp. 72, 84. 

1. 237. Tlie Surnape. In the Articles ordained by King Henry VII. for 
the Regulation of his Household, 31 Dec, 1494, are the following directions, 

p. 119. 

As for the Sewer and Usher, and laying of the Surnape. 

The sewer shall lay the surnape on the board-end whereas the bread and 
salte standeth, and lay forth the end of the same surnape and towell ; then 
the usher should fasten his rodd in the foresaid surnape and towell, and soe 
drawing it downe the board, doeing his reverence afore the Einge till it passe 
the board-end a good way, and there the sewer kneeling at the end of the 
board, and the usher at the other, stretching the said surnape and towell, 
and Boe the usher to laie upp the end of the towell well on the boarde, and 
rise goeing before the Kinge, doeing his reverence to the King on t^e same 
side the surnape bee gone uppon, and on that side make an estate with his 
rodd ; and then goeing before the Kinge doeing his reverence, and soe make 
another estate on the other side of the King, and soe goeing to the boards 
end againe, kneele downe to amend the towell, that there bee noe wrinkles 
* Halliwell says it means yeaut. It cannot do so here. 



lOHN RUSSELL8 BOKE OF NURTURE. 209 

save the estates ; and then the nsher doeing his due reverence to the King ; 
goeing right before the Kiuge with hb rodd. the side of the same towell 
there as the bason shall stand .- and doeing his reverence to the Kinge, togoe 
to the boards end againe ; and when the King hath washed, to bee ready 
with his rodd to putt upp the sumape and meete the sewer against the 
Kinge, and then the sewer to take it npp. (The French name was Serre-nape.) 

1. 253. State, Divers Lords and Jstatet, p. 155 ; divers astaiet and gentils, 
p. 160. Wardrobe Accounts of King Edward IV. 

L 262. The Fanntry Towells, Purpaynes, Coverpaynes, Chipping-knyfls. 
Percy or Northumberland Hd. Book, p. 387. 

1. 277. Symple Gondieions, Ck)mpare these modem directions to a serving 
man : " While waiting at dinner, never be picking your nose, or scratching 
your head, or any other part of your body ; neither blow your nose in the 
room ; if you have a cold, and cannot help doing it, do it on the outside of 
the door ; but do not sound your nose like a trumpet, that all the house may 
hear when you blow it ; still it is better to blow your nose when it requires, 
than to be picking it and snuffing up the mucus, which is a filthy trick. Do 
not yawn or gape, or even sneeze, if you can avoid it ; and as to hawking 
and spitting, the name of such a thing is enough to forbid it, without a 
command. When you are standing behind a person, to be ready to change 
the plates, ftc, do not put your hands on the back of the chair, as it is very 
improper ; though I have seen some not only do so, but even beat a kind of 
tune upon it with their fingers. Instead of this, stand upright with your 
hands hanging down or before you, but not folded. Let your demeanour 
be such as becomes the situation which you are in. Be well dressed, and 
have light shoes that make no noise, your face and hands well washed, your 
finger-nails cut short and kept quite clean underneath ; have a nail-brush for 
that purpose, as it is a disgusting thing to see black dirt under the nails. Let 
the lapeli of your coat be buttoned, as they will only be flying in your way.^ 
1825. T. Cosnett. Footsian's Directory, p. 97-8. Lord A. Percy's Waiters 
were changed every quarter. See the lists of them in the Percy Household 
Book, p. 53-4. 

1. 280. Lice. See Thomas Phaire's Eegiment of Life, The boke of 
Chyldren, H. h. 5 ; and A. Borders Introduction, of the Irishe man, 

Pediculus other whyle do byte me by the backe, 
Wherfore dyvers times I make theyr bones oraoke* 

And of the people of Lytic Briten, 

Although I iag my hosen & my garment round abowt, 
Yet it is a vantage to pick pendiculus owt. 
1. 283, Uosemary is not mentioned among the herbs for the bath ; 
though a poem in praise of the herb says ; 

Moche of this herbe to seeth thu take ^ 

In water, and a bathe thow make ; - 
Hyt schal the make lyjt and joly. 
And also lykyng and ^owuly. 
MS. of C. W. LoscombCy Esq., in Beliquia Antigua, i. 196. 

14 



210 NOTES TO BUSSELL8 BOKS OF XURTUBE. 

1. 300. Jet. 

Kogue why Winkest thou, 
Jenny why Jettest thon. 

are among R. Holme's Names of Slates, Bk. III. ch. v. p. 265, col. 1. 

1. 328. Forks were not introduced into England till Coryat's time. See 
his Crudities p. 90-1, 4to. London, 1611, on the strange use of the Fork in 
Italy. " I observed a custom in all those Italian Cities and Townes through 
the which I passed, that is not used in any other country that I saw in my 
travels, neither do I thinke that any other nation of Christendome doth use 
it, but only Italy. The Italian and also most Strangers that are comorant 
in Italy, doe always at their meals use a Utile Forke when they cut their 
meat." Percy's notes, p. 417-18, North. H. Book. 

1. 348-9. Fumositees. But to wash the feete in a decoction of Baye 
leaues, Rosemary, & Fenel, I greatly disalow not : for it turneth away from 
the head vapours ^ fumes dimming and oueroasting the mynde. Now the 
better to represse fumee and propulse vapours from the Brain, it shalbe 
eKceUe?it good after Supper to chaw wttA the teeth (the mouth being shut) 
a few graynes of Coriander first stieped in veneiger wherin Maioram hath 
bin decocted, & then thinly crusted or couered ouer witA Sugar. It is 
scarrce credible what a special commoditye this bringeth to y« memory. No 
lesse vertuous & soueraign is the confection of Conserue of Quinces. 
Quinces called Diacidonion, if a prety quantity thereof be likewise taken 
after meate. For it disjteneih fames, & suffreth not vapours to strike 
vpwarde. T. Newton, Lemnie'e Touchstone, ed. 1581, foL 126. See note 
on 1. 105 here. 

1. 358. Forced or Farced, a Forced Leg of Mutton, is to stuff or fill it 
(or any Fowl) with a minced Meat of Beef, Veal, &c., with Herbs and 
Spices. Farcing b stuffing of any kind of Meats with Herbs or the like ; 
some write it Forsing and Farsing. To Farce is to stuff anything. R. Holme. 

L 378. Brawn. In his chapter on Pygge, Brawne, Bacon, Andrew Borde 
says of bacon as follows : " Bacon is good for Carters, and plowe men, 
the which be euer labouryng in the earth or dunge ; but & yf they haue the 
stone, and vse to eate it, they shall synge ' wo be to the pye ! ' Wherefore 
I do say that coloppes and egges is as holsome for them as a talowe candell 
is good for a horse mouth, or a peece of powdred Beefe is good for a blere 
eyed mare. Yet sensuall appetyde must haue a swynge at all these thynges, 
notwithstandjrnge." Regiment, fol. K. iii. b. 

L 382 & 1. 515. Venison, I extract part of Andrewe Borders chapter on 
this in his Begyment, fol. K. 4, b. 

% Of wylde Beastes fleshe. 

^ I haue gone rounde about Chrystendome, and ouerthwarte Chrys- 
tendome, and a thousande or two and moore myles out of Chrystendome, 
^et there is not so moche pleasure for Harte and Hynde, Bucke and Doe, 
and for Roo-Bucke and Doe, as is In Englande lande : and although the 
flesshe be dispraysed in physicke, I pray e God to sende me parte ofthefleuhe 
toeate,physicie notwithstanding . . all physicions (phyon suchons, orig,) sayth 



lOHN BUS8ELLB BOEK OF NURTURE. 211 

tbat Yenson . . doth ingendre colorjcke humours ; and of traeth it doth so : 
Wherefore let them take the skjime, and let me haae the flessbe. I am sare 
it is a Lordes dysshe, and I am sore it is good for an Englysheman, for it 
doth anymate hym to be as he is : whiche is stronge and hardy. But I do 
aduertyse euery ma^r, for all my wordes, not to kyll and so to eate of it, 
excepte it be lawfully, for it is a meate for great men. And great men do 
not set so moche by the meate, as they doth by the pasty me of kyllyng& of it. 

1. 393. Chine, the Back-bone of any Beast or Pish. R. H. 

1. 397. Stock Dove, Columha anas, Yarrell ii. 293. 

Doues haue this propertie by themselues, to bill one another and 
kisse before they tread. Holland's Plinie, v. 1, p. 300. 

1. 401. Osprey or Fishing Hawk (the Mullet Hawk ' of Christchuroh 
Bay), Fandion Haliatetust Y. i. 30. 

1. 401, 482. Teal, Anas ereeea, Y. iu. 282. 

1. 402. Mallard or Wild Duck, Anas bosehas, Y. iii. 265. 

1. 421, 542. Beiowre. Bittem,.the Common, Botaurus stellaris, Y. ii. 571. 
In the spring, and during the breeding season, the Bittern makes a loud 
booming or bellowing noise, whence, probably, the generic term Botaurus 
was selected for it ; but when roused at other times, the bird makes a sharp, 
harsh cry on rising, not unlike that of a Wild Goose. Farrell, ii. 573. 
The Bittern was formerly in some estimation as an article of food for the 
table ; the flesh is said to resemble tbat of the Leveret in colour and taste, 
with some of the flavour of wild fowl. Sir Thomas Browne says that young 
Bitterns were considered a better dish than young Herons . . ii. 574. 
' Hearon, Byttour, Shouelar. Being yong and fat, be lightlier digested then 
the Crane, ft y« Bittour sooner then the Hearon.' Sir T, Eliot, CasteU of 
Health, fol. 31. 

L 422. Heron. Holland (Plinie, p. 301) gives— 1. A Criell or dwarfe 
Heron ; 2. Bittern ; 3. Canon Heron, for Pliny's — 1. Leueon ; 2. Asterias ; 
3. PeUon. 

1. 437. Martins are given in the Bill of Fare of Archbp. Nevill's Feast, 
A.D. 1466, 3rd Course. K Holme, p. 78. 

L 449. Cannell Bone. * Susclavier. Vpon the kannell bone ; whence Yeine 
susclaviere. The second maine ascendant branch of the hoUow veine.' Cot. 

1. 457. Compare Rabbet Banners 1 doz., 2 s., temp. Hen. YIII., ao 33. H. 
Ord. p. 223. 

1. 492. Custard, open Pies, or without lids, filled with Eggs and Milk ; 
called also Egg-Pie. E. Holme. 

See the Recipes for ' Crustade Ryal,' ' Ctustade ' (with Chikonys 
y-smete or smal birdys), and 'Crustade gentyle' (with ground pork or 
veal), fol. 43, Harl. MS. 279. The Recipe for Crustade Ryal is, " Take 
and pike out j^ marow of bonys as hool as |>ou may. )>en take >e bonys an 
se^e hem in Watere or >at )>e bro^e be fat y-now. ^en take Almaundys &* 
wayssohe hem dene & bray hem, & temper hem vppe wttA >e fat bro|^ ; >an 
wyl t^e mylke be broun. >en take ponder Canelle, Gyngere, & Suger, & caste 
)«r*on. ^en take Roysonys of coraunce & lay in |>e cofynne, & taylid Datys 

14 • 



212 NOTES TO BUSSELLS BOKE OF NURTURE. - 

& kyt a-long. |>en take Eyroun.a fewe y-straynid, & swenge among \^ 
Milke ^e )olke. )»en take the botmon of ^e cofynne \>er ]fe Marow schal 
stonde, & steke l>er gret an long gobettys I'^ron vppe ry^t. & lat bake a 
wbyle. |>en pore Hn comade l^er-on halful, & lat bake, & vhan yt 
a-rjsith, it is ynow ; l^en senie forth." 

Sir F. Madden in his note on Freeg pasties, in his Privy Pnrse Expenses 
of the Princess Mary, p. 131, col. 1, says, " The different species of Con- 
fectionary then in yogue are ennmerated by Taylor the Water Poet, in his 
Tract intitled ' The Great Eater, or part of the admirable teeth and stomaok's 
exploits of Nicholas Wood,' &c., published aboat 1610. ' Let any thing 
come in the shape of fodder or eating-stuffe, it is wellcome, whether it be 
Sawsedge, or Custard, or Eg-pye, or Cheese-cake, or Flawne, or Foole, or 
Froyze,* or Tanzy, or Pancake, or Fritter, or Flap iacke,t or Posset, or 
Galleymawfrey, Mackeroone, Kickshaw, or Tantablin ! ' " 

1. 500, 706, 730, Pety Perueis. Ferueis should be PemeU, as the Sloane 
MS. 1985 shows. Alter text accordingly. Under the head of bake MetU or 
Fyaunde Funu^, in Harl. MS. 279, fol. 40 b, we have No. xiiij Pety Pemollyt. 
Take fayre Floure Cofyns. I^en take ^olkys of Eyronn & trye hem fro ^e 
whyte. & lat l^e ^olkys be al hole & no^t to-broke. & ley .iij. or .iiij. ^olkys 
in a cofyn. and l^an take marow of bonys, to or .iij. gobettys, & cowche 
in >e cofynn. {'en take ponder Gyngere, Sugre, Hoysonys of corau«ce, & caste 
a-boue. & >an kyuere \>\rL cofyn wtt^ l^e same past. & bake hem & frye hem 
in fayre grece & 9erve iorth, 

XX Pety Peruaaunt. Take fayre Flowre, Sugre, Safroun, an Salt. & make 
l^^roffe fayre past & fayre cofyngi>. {'an take fayre y-tryid 3olkyd Raw & 
Sugre an ponder Gyngere, & Raysonys of Coraunce, & myncyd Datys, but not 
to small, ^an caste al ^is on a fayre bolle, & melle al to-gcderys, & put in >in 
cofyn, & lat bake o)>er Frye in Freyssche grece. Harl. MS. 279. 

1. 501, 701. powche. I suppose this to be poached-egg fritters ; but it 
may be the other powche : * Take the Powche and the Lyno«r [P liver] of 
haddok, codlyng, and hake.' Forme of Cury, p. 47. Kecipe 94. 

1. 501. Fritters are small Pancakes, having slices of Apples in the 
Batter. E,. Holme. Frutters, Fruter Napkin, and Fruter Crispin, were 
dishes at Archbp. Nevill's Feast, 7 Edw. IV. 1467-8 a.d. 

1. 503. Tansy Cake is made of grated Bread, Eggs, Cream, Nutmeg, 
Ginger, mixt together and Fried in a Pan with Butter, with green Wheat 
and Tansy stamped, K. Holme. ' To prevent being Bug-bitten. Put a sprig 
or two of iansey at the bed head, or as near the pillow as the smell may be 
agreeable/ T. Cosnett's Footman's Directory, p. 292. 

* Froize, or pancake, FritiUoj Frittur, rigulet. Baret. Omlet of Eggs is Eggs 
beaten together with Minoed suet, and so fried in a Pan, about the quantity of an 
Egg together, on one side, not to be turned, and served with a sauoe of Vinegar and 
Sugar. An Omlet or Froiee. R. Holme. 

t Flapjack is " a fried cake made of butter, apples, &o." Jennings. It is not 
a pancake here, evidently. *' Untill at last by the skill of the cooke, it is trans- 
form'd into the forme of a fiapjack^ which in our translation is cald Kpaincake,^* 
Taylor's Jack-a-lent, i. p. 115, in Nares. 



lOHN RUSSELLS BOKB OF NURTURE. 213 

1. 504, 511, &c. Leach, a kind of Jelly made of Cream, Ising-glass, Sugar, 
and Almonds, with other compounds (the later meaning, 17S7). R. Holme. 

1. 517-18. Potages, All maner of liquyde thynges, as Potage, sewe 
and all other brothes doth replete a man that eteth them with ventosyte. 
Potage is not so moehe vsed in all Chrystendome as it is vsed in Englande. 
Potage is made of the licour in the whiche flesshe is sod in, with puttynge 
to, chopped herbes, and Otmell and salte. A. Borde, Eeg. fol. H. ii. 

1. 517,731. Jellg, a kind of oily or fat liquor drawn from Calves or Neats 
feet boiled. R. Holme. 

1. 519. Grewel is a kind of Broth made only of Water, Grotes brused 
and Currans ; some add Mace, sweet Herbs, Butter and Eggs and Sugar : 
some call it Pottage Gruel. R. Holme. 

1. 521. Cabages. 'Tis scarce a hundred years £nce we first had cabbages 
out of Holland ; Sir Anthony Ashley, of Wiburg St Giles, in Dorsetshire, 
being, as 1 am told, the first who planted them in England. Jn. Evelyn, 
Acetaria, § 11. They were introduced into Scotland by the soldiers of Crom- 
well's army. 1854. Notes and Queries, May 6, p. 424, col. 1. 

1. 533. Powdered is contrasted with fresh in Household Ordinances : 
' In beef daily or moton, fresh, or elles all poudred is more availe, 5d.' H. 
Ord, p. 46. In Muffett (p. 173) it means pickled, ' As Porpesses must be 
baked while they are new, so Tunny is never good till it have been long 
pouldred with salt, vinegar, coriander, and hot spices.' In p. 154 it may be 
either salt or pickled; 'Home-beaks are ever lean (as some think) because 
they are ever fighting ; yet are they good and tender, whether they be eaten 
fresh or poudred.' Powdered^ says Nicolas, meant sprinkled over, and 
" powdered beef," i.e. beef sprinkled with salt, is still in use. Privg Purse 
expenses of Elizabeth of Yorke, ^c., p. 254, col. 1. See note to 1, 378, 689, 
here. 

1. 535-688. Chaudoun. MS. Harl. 1735, fol. 18, gives this Recipe. 
* If Chaudoff sauz of swannes. If Tak y« issu of y« swannes, & wasch^ hem wel, 
skoure y« guttys wiU salt, sethz al to-gidre. Tak of y« fleyschtf ; hewe it 
smal, & y« guttys w*tA alle. Tak bred, gynger^ & galingale, Canel, grynd 
it & tempre it vp wttA bred ; ooXour it witA blood or^ witA bre^t bred, seson 
it vp wit>i a lytyl vinegre ; welle it al to-gyder^.' And see the Chaudou* 
potage of Pygys, fol. 19, or p. 37. 

1. 540. Crane, the Common, Cnts cinerea, Y. ii. 530. 

1, 540. Egret, or Great White Heron, Ardea alba Y. ii. 549. (Buff- 
coloured, Buff-backed, and Little Egret, are the varieties.) 

1. 540. Hernshaw or Common Heron, Ardea einerea. Y. ii. 537 (nine 
other varieties)* 

1. 541. Plover, the Great (Norfolk Plover and Stone Curlew), jEdicne- 
mm crepitans, Y. ii. 465 (10 other varieties). 

1. 541. Curlew the Common, Numenius arquata, Y. ii. 610 (there 
are other varieties). 

I. 542. Bustard, the Great, Otis tarda, Y. ii. 428 j the Little (rare here)* 

ii. 452. 



214 NOTES TO BU88ELLS BOKB OP NURTURE. 

1. 542. Shoveler (blue-winged, or Broad-Bill), Anas efypedla, T. iii. 247. 
Snipe, the Common, Scolopax gaUinago, T. iii. 38 (11 other sorts). 

1. 543. Woodcock, Scolopax rusticola, Y. iii. 1. 

1. 543. Lapwing or Peewit, VdneUus eriHatus, ii. 515. 

L 643. The Martin, or House Martin, Hirtmdo urbica, Y. ii. 255 ; the 
Sand or Bank Martin, Hirundo riparian ii. 261. 

1. 544. Quail, the Common, Cotumix vulgaris, Y. ii. 413. 

1. 546. On Fish wholesome or not, see BuUein, fol. kxziij., and on 
Meats, fbl. 82. 

L 548. Torrentille : Mr Skeat suggests < P Torrent-eel.' Though the 
spelling of Bandle Holme's A Sandile or a Sandeele (Bk. XL, p. 333), and 
Aldrovandi*s (p. 252 h.) "De Sandilz Anglorum" may help this, yet, as Dr 
Gather says, eels have nofliing to do with torrents. Torreniille may be the 
Italian Tarentella : see note on Torrentyne, 1. 828 below. 

1. 555. Ling. There shall be stryken of every Saltfische called a Lyng 
rische vj Stroks after iij Strooks in a Side. Percy Household Book, p. 135. 

L 558. Stockfish. Yocatur aut^m ' Stockfisch ' a trunco, cui hie piscis 

aridus tundendus imponitur. ariditate enim ita riget, ut nisi prsemaoeratus 

aqua, aut prsetunsus, coqui non possit. Oesner, p. 219. *Ie te froUeray a 

double carillon. I wiU beat thee like a stockfish, I will swinge thee while I 

may stand ouer thee.' Cotgrave. ' The tenne chapitule ' of ' The Libelle of 

Englysch Polycye' is headed ' Of the coundius stokfysshe of Yselonde,' &c., 

&c., and begins 

Of Yseland to wryte is lytille nede> 

Save of stockfische. 
A. Borde, in his Introduction to Knowledge, under Islond, says. 

And I was borne in Islond, as brute as a beest ; 
Whan I ete candels ends I am at a feest ; 
Talow and raw stockefysh I do loue to ete, 
In my countrey it is right good meate. 
... In stede of bread they do eate stocfyske, and they wyll eate rawe fyshe 
& fleshe ; they be beastly creatures, vnmannered and vntaughte. The people 
be good fyshers ; muche of theyr fishe they do barter with English men for 
mele, lases, a^ shoes & other pelfery. (See also under Denmarke.) 

1. 559. Mackerel. See Muffett's comment on them, and the English and 
French ways of cooking them, p. 157. 

1. 569. Onions. Walnuts be hurtfull to the Memory, and so are Onyons^ 
because they annoy the Eyes with dazeling dimnesse through a hoate 
vapour. T. Newton, Touchstone, ed. 1 581, fol. 125 b. 

L 572. A Rochet or Rotbart is a red kind of Ourttard, and is so called in 
the South parts of England ; and in the East parts it is called a Curre, and a 
Golden polle. E. Holme. 

1. 575. A Dace or a Blawling, or a Gresling, or a Zienfische, or Weyfisch ; 
by all which the Ctermans call it, which in Latin is named Leucorinus. And 
the French Vengeron, which is English'd to me a Dace, or Daee-Jish. R, 
Holme. 



lOHN RUSSELLS BOKB OF NURTURE. 215 

1. 577. Brfett. I thought it clear that refett was roe, and I do not yet give it 
up. But see P.P., Be/eccyon, wllere the editor gives * refet of fisshe K., re/ei 
or fishe H., reuet P.,' from other manuscripts, and cites in a note Roquefort 
from Fr. reffdU (refait) as meaning a fish, the roujet, &c., &c. The authority 
of Roquefort is not much, and he gives no citation. If, however, in K. H. and 
P. these forms are used instead of the spelling refecc^on, and defined refectio, 
refecUra, it rather embarrasses the matter. Halliwell cites no authority for 
rivet, roe. G. P. Marsh. See note to 1. S^jO here, p. 224. 

L 580. Gobbin, or Oobbet, or Gubbins : Meat cut in large peeces, as large 
as an Egg. R Holme. 

L 584. A Thontbacke, soe called from the Sharp Crooked Pricks set on 
Studs, all down the middle of the Back. R. Holme. 

1. 584. Hound Fysch. A Sow-Hpund-Fish. . . So it is called from its 
resemblance of a Dog, and its fatuess like to a Swine : though most term it 
a Dog-FisK It hath a small Head, great Eyes ; wide Mouth, rough, sharp 
and thick skinned. R. Holme. 

I. 584, 1. 830. ^Thorlepolle. Aldrovandi, describing the Balana vera Rom- 
dellelii"] says : Hec belua Anglis, (vt diici) Hore vocatur, & alio nomine Horle- 
poole & YYirlepoole etiam, ni fallor, earum nimirum omnium significatione, 
qubdimpetttosuo & flatu vorticosas in maritanquam palude procellas excitet. 
Oleum ex ea colligi aiunt. p. 677. See Holland's Plinie on the Whales 
and Whirlepooles called Balseuffi, which take up in length as much as foure 
acres or arpens of land, v. 1, p. 235, &c. 

Thomback, Baja, Thomback, which Charles Chester merily and not un- 
fitly oalleth Neptune's beard, was extolled by Antiphanes in Athenseus history 
for a dainty fish ; indeed it is of a pleasant taste, but of a stronger smeU than 
Skate, over-moist to nourish much, but not so much as to hinder lust, which 
it mightily encreaseth. MuflTett, p. 172. 

1. 596. Verjuice is the juice of Crabs or sour Apples. R. Holme. 

1. 622. Jole of Sturgion or Salmon is the two quarters of them, the head 
parts being at them. R. Holme. "* 

1. 630. Lamprey pie. In the Hengrave Household Accounts is this 
entry " for presenting a lamprey pye vj d." " It^m. the xiiij day of January 
[1503] to a servant of the Pryour of Lanthony in reward for brynging of two 
bakyn laumpreys to the Queue v s. Nicolas's Elizabeth of York, p. 89, and 
Glossary." 

Under ' How several sorts of Fish are named, according to their Age or 
Growth,* p. 324-5, R. Holme gives 

An Eel; first a Fauser, then a Grigg, or Snigg, then a Scaffling, then a 
little Eel ; when it is large, then an Eel, and when very large, a Conger. 

A PUie, first a Hurling pick, then a Pickerel, then a Fike, then a Luce or 
Lucie. 

A Smelt or Sparling, first a Sprat, then a small Sparling, then a Sparling, 

A Codd, first a Whiting, then a Codling, then a Codd. 

A Lamprey, first a Lampron Grigg, then a Lampret, then a Lamprell, 
then a Lamprey, 



216 KOTBS TO BUSSELI^ SOKE OF NURTURE. 

A Lamproth first a Barle, than a Barling, then a Lamprell, and then a 
Lamprey or Lamprotu 

A Crevieey first a Spron Frej, then a Shrimp^ then a Sprawn, and when 
it is large, then called a Crevice. 

The carioos Burlesques, pp. 81-3, 85-6, vol. 1 of BeUquim AtUiqua, con- 
tain a great many names of fish. 

1. 631. Paaiy is paste rouled broad, and the Meat being laid in Order on 
it, it is turned over, and made up on three sides, with garnishes about. B* 
Holme. 

1. 634, note. Oalingale. Harman (ed. Strother, 1727) notices three 
varieties, Oyperus rotundus, round Qalingal ; Oalanga major, Galingal ; Qalanga 
minor ^ lesser Galingal. 

Gallinga, Lat. Galanga, says Bp Percy, is the root of a grassy-leaved 
phuit brought from the East Indies, of an aromatic smell and hot biting 
bitterish Taste, anciently used among other Spices, but now almost laid aside. 
Lewis, Mai. Med. p. 286. See Mr Way's note 4 in Pr. Parv. p. 186. 

*Oalendyne is a sauce for any kind of roast Fowl, made of Grated Bread, 
beaten Cinnamon and Ginger, Sugar, GLaret-wine, and Vinegar, made as thick 
as Grewell.' Handle Holme, Bk. HE., chap. III., p. 82, col. 2. See also 
Recipes in Markham's Houswife, the second p. 70, and the first p. 17, 

1. 65 7< A sewer, apposUor ciborum, Appono, to sette vpon the table* 
Withals. 

1. 686. See Bandle Holme's 'relation of the Feast made by George 
Nevill, Arch-Bishop of York, at the time of his Consecration, or Installation, 
7. Edw. IV. 1467-8,' and his other Bills of Fare, p. 77-81, Book in. Chap. III. 

1. 686. Mtuiard is a kind of sharp biting sauce, made of a small seed 
bruised and mixed with Vinegar. R. Holme. 

1. 686. Dynere. Compare the King^s dinner in The Squyr of Lowe Degree. 

The Squyer 

He toke a white yeard in his hande, 
Before the kyik^ than gane he stande, 
And sone he sat hym on his knee, 
And serued the kynge ryght royally 
With deynty meates that were dere, 
With Purtryche, Pecocke, and Plouere, 
With byrdes in bread ybake. 
The Tele, the Ducke, and the Drake, 
The Cocke, the Corlewe, and the Crane, 
With Fesauntes fayre, theyr ware no wane. 
Both Storkes and Snytes ther were also. 
And venyson freshe of Bucke and Do, 
And other deynt^s many one. 
For to set afore the kynge anone. 

1. 312-27, B. Popular Poetry, v. 2, p. 36. 

Several of the names of the dishes in Russell are used burlesquely in the 



lOHN RUSBELL8 BOKE OF NURTURE. 217 

Feest of the Turnament of Tottenham, E. Pop. P., v. 3, pp. 94-6, " saduls 
sewys, mashefatts in mortrewjB, mylstones in mawmary, iordans in iussall, 
chese-crustis in charlettj" &c. 

1. 6SS, Swan, *' Gap; xxviij. The Swanne is Teri a fajr birde, w»U whyte 
feders / & it hath a blacke skinne & flesshe / the mariner seeth hym gladly / 
for whan he is mery, the mariner is without sorowe or daojiger ; & all his 
strengthe is in his wyisges / and he is coleryke of complexion / ft whan they 
will engender, than they stryke wyth theyr nebbys toged^, and cast theyr 
neckes oner eche other as yf thei wolden brace eche other ; so come they 
togeder, but the male doth hurt the female ; & as sone as he beknoweth that 
he hathe hurte her, than he departeth frome her compani in all the haste 
possible / and she pursueth after for to reuenge it / but ihe anger is sone 
past, ft she wassheth her with her bylle in the water / and clenseth herselfe 
agayne." — L. Andrewe, Noble I^e> Pt. II. sign. m. 1. 

1. 688, Feygaund, '* Cap. xlvi. Eascianttf is a wyld cocke or a fesant 
cocke that byde in the forestes, & it is a fayre byrde with goodly feders. but he 
hath no coMmbe as other cockes haue /and they be alway alone except whane 
they wylle be by the henne. and they that will take this bird / and in many 
places the byrders doth thus, they paynte the figure of this fayre byrde in a 
cloth, ft holdeth it before hym / & whan this birde seeth so fayr a figure of 
hym selfe / he goeth nother forward nor bacwarde / but he standeth still, 
staringe vpon his figure / ft sodenly commeth another, and casteth a nette ouer 
his hede, and taketh hym. Thys byrde mometh sore in fowle weder, & hideth 
hym from the rayne ynder tie busshes. Towarde the morninge and towardes 
night, than comjneth he out of the busshe, and is oftentimes so taken, ft he 
putteth his hede in the ground, & he weneth that all his boddy is hyden / and 
his flessh is very light and good to disiest.'' — L. Andrewe, Noble lA/fe, 
Pt. U. (m. 4.) 

L 689. Fenaoun bctke^ or Venison Pasty. Of the Hart and Hinde, Topsel 
says, " The flesh is tender, especially if the beast were libbed before his boms 
grew : yet is not the juice of that flesh very wholesome, and therefore Galen 
adviseth men to abstain as much from Harts flesh as from Asses, for it engen- 
dereth melancholy ; yet it is better in Summer then in Winter. Simeon Sethi^ 
speaking of the hot CountrieSi forbiddeth to eat them in Summer, because 
then they eat Serpents, and so are venemous ; which falleth not out in colder 
Nations, and therefore assigneth them rather to be eaten in Winter time, 
because the concootive powers are more stronger through plenty of inward 
heat ; but withal admonisheth, that no man use to eat much of them, for it 
will breed Palsies and trembling in mans body, begetting grosse humors, 
which stop the Milt and Liver : and Auicen proveth, that by eating thereof 
men incur the quartane Ague ; wherefore it is good to powder them with salt 
before the dressing, and then seasoned with Peper and other things, known 
to every ordinary Cook and woman, they make of them Pasties in most 
Nations," p. 103, ed. 1658. 

L 694. Blanchmanffer, a made dish of Cream, Eggs, and Sugar, put into 
an open puff paste bottom, with a loose cover. Blamanger, is a Capon roast 



218 NOTES TO BUSSELL's BOKB OF NURTURE. 

or boile, minced small, planched (sic) Almonds beaten to paste, Cream, Eggs, 
Grated Bread, Sugar and Spioes boiled to a pap. R. Holme. 

1. 694. Fo - iage is strong Broth of Meat, with Herbs and Spices Boiled. 
Pottage is the Broth of Flesh or Fowl, with Herbs and Oatmeal boiled 
therein. R. Holme. 

L 694, FcMOun; and L 696, Heiroiuew, 

But many men byn nowe so lekerons 
That they can not leve by store of howse, 
As brawne, bakyn, or powderd beef; 
Such iyyelod now ys no man leef. 
But venysoUi wyldfowle or heronsewes. 
So newfanggell be these men of her thewes ; 
Moche medlyd wyne all day men drynke ; 
j haue wyste wyldfowle sum tyme stynke. 
Piers ofFuUham, IL 171-8, p. 8, v. 2, of Early Popular Poetry, 

ed. Haslitt, 1866. 

1. 695, Bustard. " Cap. xv. The Bistarda is a birde as great as an egle, 
of the maner of an egle, and of suche colour, sane in the winges & in the tayle 
it hath some white feders ; he hath a crooked byll, & longe talants. and it 
is slowe of flight / & wha» he is on the grownde, than must he ryse .iij. or 
iiij. tymes or he can come to any fulle flight, he taketh his mete on the crth ; 
for .V. or .vi. of them togeder be so bold that they festen on a shcpe & tere 
byffi a-sonder / & so ete the flesshe of him / & this birde dothe ete also of 
dede bestes & stinkyn caryon, and it eteth also grasse & grene erbes / & it 
layth his eggis vpon the grou»de, & bredeth them out the while that the 
come groweth on the felde." — L. Andrewe, Noble I^e, L ij back. 

1. 695, Crane. " Cap. lix. The Crane is a great byrde / and whan they 
flye, they be a greate many of them to-gyder in ordre, and a-monge them they 
chose a kynge the whiche they obey / whan the crane sleepth, than standeth 
he vpon one fote witA his hede vnder his winges / & ther is one thai kepeth 
the wache yriih his hede vpryght to-wardes the ayre / & wha» they ete, tha« 
the kynge kepeth the wache fore them, and than the cranes ete witAout 
Borowe. Aristotiles sayth thai aboue Egipt in farre loxdes come the cranes in 
the wi^fter / and there the fight wi't^ the pygmeis as before is shewed in the 
.c. & .xvL chapter.* 

The Operacion. 

Hasi. The flesshe of him is grosse, & not good to disiest / & it maketh 
melaxcolious blode. % The crane that is kille in somer shalbe hanged vp one 

* Pigmeis be men & women, & but one cnbite longe, dwellinge in the monnt- 
aynes of ynde | they be full growen at their third yere, & at their aeuenyere they be 
olde I & they gader them in may a grete company togeder, & arme them in theyr best 
maner | and than go they to the water syde, A where-so-euer they fynde any cranes 
nestiB they breake all the egges, & kyll all the yonges thai they fynde | and this they 
do because the cranes do them many displeasures, & fight with them oftentymes, & 
do them great scathe | but these folke coucr their houses wttA the cranes feders & 
egshels. fol. h. \j. back. 



lOHN RU88ELL& BOKE OF NURTURE. 219 

daye / and in winter season .ij. dajes or it be eten, and than it is the more 
disiestious."— L. Andrewe, Noble Lgfe. Pt. II. (n. iij.) 

1. 695, peacock, " Paon revestn. A Peacooke flayed, parboyled, larded, 
and stncke thicke with Clones ; then roasted, with his feet wrapped Tp to 
keepe them from scorching ; then couered againe with his owne skinne as 
soone as he is cold, and so rnderpropped that, as aliue, hee seemes to stand 
on his legs : In this equipage a gallant, and daintie seraice." — 1611, Coigrave. 

L 695, Peacock. *' Paao / the pecocke is a very fayre byrde / and it hath 
a longe necke, and hath on his hede feders lyke a lytell crowne / he bathe a 
longe tayle the whyche he setteth on bye yery rycheli, but whan he loketh on 
hys lothly fete, he lateth Ids tayle sinke. Be nyght, whan the Pecocke can 
nat see hymselfe, tha» he cryeth ernef ally, and thynketh that he hath lost hys 
beautye / and with his orye he feareth all serpentes / in suche maners that 
they dare nat abyde in those places whereas they here hym crye / and whan 
the pecocke clymmeth bye, that is a token of rayne . . also the pecocke is 
envious & wylle nat knowe his yonges tyll that they bane iht crowne of feders 
vpon theyr hede, and that they begynne to lyken hym. . . . The flesshe of hym 
will nat lightely rote nor stynke / and it is enyll flesshe to disiest, for it can 
nat lightely be rosted or soden ynough." — ^L. Andrewe, Noble I^e (o. iv.). 
Cap. xci. 

1. 696, HeiroHsew, Ardea is a byrde that fetcheth his mete in y« water, & 
yet he byldeth vpoit the hyest trees that he can. This birde defendeth his 
yonges from y® goshawke, castinge his dooiige vpon him / & than the fedders of 
the goshawke rote of y« dounge of ardea as far as it toachet[h]. Nob. I^e, L. ij. 

1. 696, Partrich. " Cap. xcvi. Perdix is a byrde very wylye, & the cockes 
fegbt oftentymes for the he;ines. and these byrdes flye of no heght / and they 
put theyr hedes in the erthe, & they thinke thai they tha» be well hyden, for 
wha» she seeth nobody she thinketh thai nobody seeth here. & she bredeibh 
out other p^rrtriches egges / for wha» she hath lost her eges, thaji she steleth 
other egges & bredeth them / & wha» they be hatched thai they can go on the 
grouffde / than this damme setteth them out of Me nest / but whan they be 
a-brode, & here the wyse of theyr owne dammes, incowtiuent they leue theyr 
damme thai brought them up, & go to their owne natural damme / & tha» she 
thai brought them vp hath lost her labour. The Operacion. The flesshe of 
a ptfrtriche is most holsomest of all wylde fowles, the brest & vppermoste 
parte of this bodie is the swetest, & bathe the best sauoure / bnt th^ hinder 
parte is nat so swete." L. Andrewe, Noble L^fe, sign. p. i. & back. 

L 698, Lark, Alauda : the krke is a lytel birde, & wttA euery man well 
beknowen through his songe / in Me somer thei begyffneth to singe in the 
dawning of Me day, geuynge knowlege to the people of Me cominge of the 
daye ; and in fayre weder he reioyseth sore / but whan it is rayne weder, than 
it singeth selden / he singeth nat sittinge on the grownde nouther / but whan 
be assendith vpwarde, he syngeth mereli / & in the descending it falleth to 
the grownde lyke a stone. The Operacion. The larkes flesshe hardeneth 
the beli, and the brothe of hym that he was soden in, slaketh the beU. L. 
Andrewe, Noble lAffe, sign. L. iv. back, and L. i. 



220 NOTES TO RUSttELLS BOKE OF NUBTaRB. 

L 706, Snyte or Snipe. " Cap. Ixxxiiij. Nepa is a byrde wiU a longe 
bjll / & he puiteth his byil in Me erthe for to seke the worms in the grounde 
/ and they put their bylies in tht erthe sometyme so depe thai they can nat 
gete it yp agayne / & tha« they scratche theyr billes ot(t agayn witA theyr 
fete. This birde resteth betimes at nyght / and they be erly abrode on the 
mominge / & they hane swete flesshe to be eten." 

1. 706, Sparow. ** Passer / The Sparowe is a lytell byrde / and whan ike 
cncko fyndeth the sparowes nest / thaj» he suppeth vp Me egges, & kyetli 
newe egges hym self therin agayne / & the sparowe bredeth vp these yo^ge 
cnckoes tyi they can flee ; than a great many of olde sparowes geder to-geder 
to thente«t thai thei sholde holde vp the yoxge sparowes that ean nat flee / & 
theyr mete is wormes of /ie erthe . . All sparowes flesshe is enyl / and their 
egges also. The flessh is very bote, and moueth to the operacion of 
lechery." L. Andrewe, Noble hfft (o. iv.)» Cap. xci. 

L 713. ComfiU are round, long or square pellets of Sugar made by the 
Art of a Confectioner. R. Holme. 

L 737, EUi, Trevisa in his Uigden says of Britain ' l^e lond ys noble, 
copious, & ryche of noble welles, & of noble ry vers wi|y plente of fysch. >ar 
ys gret plente of smal fysch & of eele^, so f^at cherles in som place feede^ 
sowes wl)' fysch.* Morri^B Specimens, p. 334. 

Comyth ther not al day owt of hoUond and flaundre 
Off fatte eles full many a showte. 
And good chepe, who that wayteth the tyddys abowte ? 
Fiers o/Fullkam, 11. 71-3, Early Pop. Poetry, v. 2, p. 4 (and see 11. 7-10). 

1. 747, 812. Minoes, so called either for their littleness, or (as Dr. Cajus 
imagined) because their fins be of so lively a red, as if they were died with 
the true Cinnabre-lake called Minium : They are less than Loches, feeding 
upon nothing, but licking one another . . they are a most delicate and light 
meat . . either fried or sodden. Muffett, p. 183. 

1. 768. Towse. Can this be a form of dough f 6. P. Marsh. 

1. 782. Sotiltees were made of sugar and wax. Lei. Coll. VI. p. 31. Pegge. 

1. 788-795, Sanguineus, Colerieus, Fleumaticus, Malencolicus, Men were 
divided into these four classes, according to their humours. Laurens Andrewe 
says, in his Noble I^e, " And the bodij of man is made of many diners sortes 
of lyjirmes / as senewes / vaynes / fatte / flesshe & skynne. And also of the 
foure molstours / as sanguyne / flematyke / coleryke & melancoly." (fol. a iv. 
back) col. 2. In his Chapter " Howe that man commeth into the house 
of dethe," he has drawings of these four types of man, on either side of Xing 
Death & the skeleton under him. Men die, he says in thre ways. 1. by one 
of the four elements of which they are made, overcoming the others ; 2. by 
humidum radicate or ' naturaU moystour ' forsaking them ; 3. by wounds; "& 
these thre manors of dethes be contained in the four complexcions of man / 
as in the sanguyne / colerike / flematike / & melancoly. The sanguyne 
wareth often tymes so olde through gode gouemaunce / that he must occopy 



lOHN RUSSELL8 BORE OF NURTURE. 221 

spectacles, & line longe or hamroidum radicale departe frome him / but than 
he djeth. The colerike ooMmeth oftentymes to* dethe be accidental! manor 
through his hastines, for he is of nature bote & drye. The flematike oowmeth 
often to dethe thorough great exoesse of mete & drinke, or other great 
labours doinge / for his nature is colde and moyste, & can not well disiest. 
And melaxcoly is heuy / full of care & heuynes / whereof he engendereth 
moche euyll blode that causeth great sekenes, which bringeth him vnto dethe. 
Thus go we al vnto the howse of dethe / the one thrugh ensuynge of his 
complexion / the other through the ordenances of almyghty god. The thirde 
through the planetis & signes of the firmament." fol. a vi. 

1. 799, Beef, Laurens Andrewe, NohU I^e, sign. C. i., Pt. i. says, " Of the 
oxce, ca. xiiij. " The oxce is a cojwpanable beste, & amonge his cowpani he is 
very mekfi / & alwaye he seketh his felowe that was wont to go in the plowghe 
wyth hym / and whan he fyndeth nat his felow, than oryeth he wyth a lowde 
Toyce, makyng gret mone / as it were one thai wolde make a mouminge 
complaynt. A bull lyueth .xv. yere, and a oxce .xx. yere. ^ Isaac sayth 
that an oxce flessh is the dryest flesshe amonge all other / & his blode is nat 
holsome to be eten, for it wyll nat lightly disieste. & therfore it fedeth sore, 
& it maketh euyll hujnoures, & bredeth meUmcoly / ^ they melancolicus that 
eat moche suche met^s be like to suffer many diseases, as to gete an harde 
mylte / the febris quartayn / the dropcy / mangnies, lepry, &o.*' 

1. 799, Mutton. Wether mutton was rightly held tbe best. See '* The 
operacion " below. " % Of the Bamme or weddr. Ca. iij. Ysydorus sayth 
that the ramme or wedder is the lodysman of other shepe / and he is the male 
or man of the oye, and is stronger than the other shepe / & he is also called 
a wedder because of a worme that he hath in his hede / & whan that begin- 
neth for to stirre, than wyll he tucke and feght / and he fereth naturaUy the 
thonder, as other shepe dothe. For whan a shepe is with fmte, hering the 
thonder, she casteth her frute, and bryngeth it dede to the worlde. and the 
wedder in the tyme that he bespryngeth the oye, than is it in the tyme of 
loue amonge the shepe / and the Raffime or wedder wyl feght boldly for theyr 
wyues one with another .... 

The Operacion. 
^ The flesshe of a yonge wether that is gelded is moch better than any other 
motton / for it is nat so moyste as other motton, and it is hoter, and whan it 
disgesteth well it maketh gode blode / but the flessh of an oled nuwme wyll 
nat lightely disgest, & that is very euyll." L. Andrewe, NohU^/fe^ Ft. I. sign, 
b. i. back. 

1. 800, CKykon. On the cocke & hen L. Andrewe discourses as follows : 
" the Cocke is a noble byrde with a combe on his hed & vnder his iawes / he 
croweth in thi^ night heuely & light in Me momijige / & is fare herd wtU the 
winde. The lyon is afrayd of the cocke / & specially of the whyte / the 
crowyng of the cocke is swete & profitable ; he wakeneth Me sleper / he 
conforteth the sorowful / & reioyseth the wakers in tokenynge /^t the night 
is passed . . . The flesshe of the coscke is groser than the flesshe of the 

♦ oHg. do. 



222 NOTES TO russrll's bokb of nurture. 

hevne or capon. Nota / the olde oockes flesshe is tenderer than the yonge. 
The capons flesshe is mightiest of all fowles & maketh gode blode. Auice«na* 
The cokerels flesshe ikat neuer crewe is b^tt^ than the olde cockes flesshe : 
the stones be gode for them that hane to light a disiestjon / the brothe of 
hjm is gode for the payn in iAe mawe iAat coinmeth of wynde.'* Noble lA^fr^ 
n. i. back. Of the hen, L. Andrewe says : '' the hejine is tkb wyfe of the cocke/ 
& ye shall lay odde egges vnder her for to hatche / . . The flesshe of the 
yonge he/ine or she haue layde / is better than of the olde heime / also 
the grese of the cheken is moche hoter than of the he«ne." NohU I^ffe^ n. i. 
back. 

1. 802| GooK. " The tame gese . . be heny in fleinge, gredi at their mete, 
& diligent to theyr rest / & they crye the hoores of y« night, & therwith they 
fere y® theues. In the hillis of alpis be gese as great, nere hajide, as an 
ostriche : they be so heuy of body that they cannat flee, & so me take them 
with the haiide . . The gose flessh is very grose of nature in disiestion." 
NohU 2^, L. i. back. Part ii. cap. 10. 

1. 803, Capon. '* Gallinacius / the capon is a gelded cocke / & becanse 
ikat he is gelded he waxeth the soner fatte / & though he go with the 
hennes, he dothe nat defende them / nor he croweth nat." L. Andrewe, 
Noble I^fjol n. \y 

1. 80i, i%M. " the new lyde egges be better than the olde / the henne 
egges be better tha* ani other egges, whan thei be fresshe, & specialli whan 
thei be rere, tha» they make gode blode / but the egges that be harde rosted 
be of lAe grose metis. 

The Operacion. 
All manera of e^;es waken a man to the worke of lecherie, & specialli 
sparowes egges. Auice^na: The ducke egges & suche like make grose 
humoures. The best of the egges is the yoike, & that causeth sperma / the 
white of the egge enclineth to be cole, whan an he^ne shall brede, take hede 
of those egges that be blont on bothe endes, & thei shal be henne chekehs / 
& those that be longe & sharpe on bothe endes shall be cocke cbekens." L. 
Andrewe. Noble I^e (o iij. back). 

1. 808, Lamb, Laurens Andrewe, Ft. i. says, f Of the Lamme. Cap. pnmo. 

In the begijfnynge we haue the Lamme, because he is the moste mekest beste 

leuinge, for it offewdeth nobody / and all that he hathe on him is gode / y« 

flesshe for to eate, the skynne to make parchement or ledder / the donge for 

to doitge the felde / the clawes & homes be medicinable / he dredeth the 

wolfe sore / & he knoweth his damme best be her bleting, though she be 

amonge many shepe. 

The Operacion. 

The Lamme that soucketh his damme hath his flesshe veiy slymie, & nat 

lowable / and it will nat be disgested, principally of them that haue cold 

stomakes. lammes of a yere olde be better & lighter to disgest / & they make 

gode blode / and specyally they be gode for theym that be bote & drye of 

complexcyon & dwell in a bote & drye lande / lammes flesshe is very gode for 

one that is hole & lusti, but for theim thti^ be seke it is very euyll : though 



lOHN RUSSELLS SOKE OF NITRTURE. 223 

it lightely disgest and descende out of the man / yet it is enyll for other 
partes of the body, for it maketh slimy humoors. sign. b. i. 

1. 808, Cony. " The coney is a iy tel beste dwellynge in an hole of the 
erthe / & tfaore as he vseth he eucreaseth very moche, and therfore he is 
profitable for man, for he casteth oftentymes in the yere . . Ysaac sayth. 
That conys flesshe hath properli Me vertue to strengen Me mawe and to 
dissolne the bely /and it casseth moche vryne." The Noble I^e, sign. e. i. 

1. 811. Mead or Meath, a drink made of Ginger, Sugar, Honey and 
Spring water boiled together. H. Holme. 

Metheglin, a drink made of all sorts of wholesome Herbs boiled and 
strained with Honey and Water, and set to work with Bearm, as Ale or Beer. 
i2. Holme- Dan. miod. 

1. 811. Braggot, This drinke is of a most hot natnre, as being composed 
of Spices, and if it once, scale the sconce, and enter within the circnmclusion 
of the Perricranion, it doth much accelerate nature, by whose forcible 
atraction and operation, the drinker (by way of distribution) is easily 
enabled to afford blowes to his brother. In Taylor. Drink Sf Welcome, 
1637, A 3, back. 

1. 812. Mussels (MUyli, Chamce) were never in credit, but amongst the 
poorer sort, till lately the lilly-white Mussel was found out about Homers- 
wall, as we sail betwixt Flushing and Bergen-up-Zon, where indeed in the 
heat of Sommer they are commonly and much eaten without any offence to 
the head, liver, or stomach : yea my self (whom once twenty Mussels had 
almost poisoned at Cambridg, and who have seen sharp, filthy, and cruel dis- 
eases follow the eating of English Mussels) did fill my self with those Mussels 
of the Low Country, being never a whit distempered with my bold adventure. 
Muffeit, p. 159. 

1. 824, Samon. 

Also sumtyme where samons vsen for to haunte. 
Lampreys, luces, or pykkes plesaunte, 
wenyth the fyscher suche fysche to fynde. 

Fien o/Fullham, U. 11-13. 

1. 828. Torrentyne. The passage before that quoted from Aldrovandi, de 
Piscibus, p. 585, in the note, is, "Trutta, sine ut Platina scribit Truta, sine 
Trotta Italicuffi nomen est, ^ Gallis, quibus Troutte vel potius Truette, vel 
al) Anglis quibir« ^ Tmte, vel Trovvt appellant, acceptum. Rhsti qui 
lialica lingua corrupta vtuntur, Criues vocant, teste GJesnero." The special 
fish from the Tarentine gulf is the " Tarentella, Piscis genus. Tract. MS. 
de Pise. cap. 26 ex God. reg. 6838. C. : Magnue Ikunnus, U scilicet qui a 
nostrie Ton voeatur . . didtur Italis Tarentella, a Tarentino, unde advehitur, 
sinu." Ducange, ed. 1846. 

1. 838. Hale. Merluciue (or Oadue) vulgaris T. ii. 258, ' the Seapike. . . 
It is a coarse fish, not admitted to the tables of the wealthy ; but large 
quantities are annually preserved both by salting and drying, part of which is 
exported to Spain.' ' Pish, samon, hake, herynge ' are some of the com- 
moditees of Irelonde mentioned in the Idbelle (a.d. 1436), p. 186. 



224 NOTES TO BUS8ELLS BOKE OF NURTURE. 

1. 840, reffeti. In the following extraot refde has the FrompiariuM meaning ; 
eteth of the [full grown] fysche, and be not so lykeroas. 
Let the yong leve that woll be so plenteous ; 
ffor though the bottomles beljes be not ffjUyd with such re/kU, 
Yet the saver of sauze may make yt good mete. 

Fieri o/Fullkam, IL 80-3, E. Fop. P., v. 2, p. 5. 
). 842. breme. 

. . y sohall none pondes with pykes store, 
jBreme, perche, ne with tenche none the more. — Ildd, 11, 61-2. 
1. ^4&,flowndur8, 

But now men on deyntees so hem delyte. 
To fede hem ypon the fysches lyte, 
Aajfowndrest perches, and such pykyng ware ; 
Thes can ho man gladly now-a-day spare 
To suflfyr them wex vnto resonable age. — Ibid. 11. 74-8. 
1. 867. Wose, For eight pair of h^sen of cloth of divers colours, at xiij s. 
iiijd. the pair; and for four pair "of sokks of fustian" at iij d. the pair 
(p. 118) . . for making and lyning of vj pair of hosen of puke lyned with 
cloth of the goodes of the saide Richard, for lynyng of every pair iij s. iiij d. 
XX s. Wardrobe Accounts of Edw. lY. (ed. Nicolas) p. 120. 

L 879. Combiug the head was specially enjoined by the doctors. See 
A. Borde, Vaughan, &c., below. 

1. 915. Fustian, March, 1503, *for v yerdes J^utyan for a cote at vij d. 
the yerd ij s. xj d.' Nicolas's Elizabeth of York, p. 105, See A. Borde, 
p. 225, below. ' Coleyne thredet fustiafu, and canvase* are among the 'oom- 
modites . . fro Fruse ibroughte into Flauudres/ according to the JUbelle^ 

p. 171. 

But tha Flemmyngis amonge these thinges dere 
In comen lowen beste bacon and here : 
Thus am thy hogges, and drynkye wele staunt ; 
Fare wele Flemynge, hay, horys, hay, avaunt. (See «. p. 247, below.) 
A. Borde, in his Introduction, makes one of the Januayes (Genoese) say, 
I make good treacle, and tlBo/ustian, 
With, such thynges I crauft with many a pore man. 
1. 941-6. See the extracts from Andrew Borde, W. Yaughan, &a, below. 
1. 945. The Motte bredethe amonge clothes tyll that they have byten it a 
sender / & it is a maniable worm, and yet it hydeth him in y« clothe that it 
can scantly be sene / & it bredethe gladly in clothes that haue ben in an 
euyll ayre, or in a rayn or myst, and so layde vp without hanging in the sonne 
or other swete ayre after. 

The Operacyon. 
The erbes that be bitter & well smelli^ is good to be layde amonge 
Buche clothes / as the baye leuis, cypres wode. T^ Noble Ijfe (L 3.) Pt. L 
Cap. c.xlij. sign. i. 3. 

1. 969. Catte. The mouse hounter or catte is an onclene beste, & a 



lOHN RUSSELLS BOKE OF NURTURE. 225 

pojson ennemj to all myse / aad whan she hath goten [one], she playeth 
therwith / but yet she eteth it / & y* catte hath longe here on her mouthe / 
and whan her heres be gone, than hathe she no boldnes / and she is gladli in 
a warme place / and she licketh her forefete & wassheth therwith her face. 
Laurens Andrewe, The Noble L^e (g. iv.), Part I. cap. cil 

1. 970, dogge. Here is the Arst part of Laurens Andrewe's Chapter. 

Of the dogge. ca. xxiiij. 
The dogge is an onclenly beste / that eteth so moche that he Tomyteth it out 
& eteth it vp agayne / it is lightly angry, and by teth gladly straujige dogges / 
he barketh moche / he kn[oweth] his name well / he is hered [all over his 
b]ody, he loueth his mast[er, and is eselye] lemed to many games / & be 
night he kepeth the house. There be many hou^des tha\» for the loue of 
theyr maister they wyll roxne in their owne dethe / & whan the dogge is 
seke / he seketh grasse or other erbes / & that he eteth, and heleth himselfe 
so / and there be many maiier of dogges or houiides to hawke & hunt, as 
grayhou^des / braches / spanyellis, or suche other, to hunt hert and hynde / 
& other bestes of chace & venery, &c. and suche be named gewtyll houjides. 
The bitche hath, my Ike .v. or yij. dayes or she litter her whelpes / and that 
roilke is thicker tha« any other mylke excepte swynes mylke or hares mylke. 
foL c iv. 

1. 970, Caiie. L. Andrewe says 

" Of the Catte. ca. xxv. 
The catte is a beste thai seeth sharpe, and she byteth sore / and scratcheth 
right perylously / & is principall ennemye to rattis & myoe / & her colour is 
of nature graye / and the cause thax they be other wyse colowred, that 
coMmethe through chaunge of mete, as it is well marked by the house catte, 
for they be selden colored lyke the wylde catte. & their flesshe is bothe nesshe 
&soffte." iVb^AfZiK/"*, Part IL civ. 

L 983. Bathe. ' Bathing is harmful to them [who are splenitic] chiefly 
after meat, and copulation (following) on surfeit. . . Let him also bathe him- 
self in sweet water. Without, he is to be leeched and smeared with oil of 
roses, and with onlayings (or poultices made of) wine and grapes, and often 
must an onlay be wrought of butter, and of new wax, and of hyssop and 
of oil ; mingle with goose grease or lard of swine, and with frankincense and 
mint ; and when he bathes let him smear himself with oil ; mingle (it) with 
saffron.' Leechdoms^ v, 2, p. 245. 

1. 987. Scahioia, so named of old tyme, because it is giuen in driuke 
inwardly, or ointmentes outwardly, to hade scabbes, sores, oormpeion in the 
stomacke, yea, and is most frend emong all other herbes in the tyme of the 
Pestilence, to drinke the water with Mithridatum a momynges . . the 
flowers is like a Blewe or white thrummed haiiey the stalk rough, the 
▼pper leaues ragged, and the leaues next the grose rootes be plainer. Under 
whom often tymes, Frogges will shadowe thetm seines, from the heate of 
the dale : hoppyog and plaiyng Tnder these leaues, whiche to them is a 
pleasaunt Tente or pauillion, saieth Aristophanes, whiche maie a plade 

16 



226 



NOTES TO BUSSELLS BORE OF NURTURE. 



(= made a play), wherein Frogges made pastime. BuUein's Btdwarke, 156d, 
or, TAe booke qfSimplet, fol. xvj. b. 

1. 995. Bilgres. Can this be bugloss ? I find this, as here, in jaxtaposition 
vith seabiose, in Bullein's Bulwarke of Defence, Book of Simples, fol. xvj. b. 
G. P. Marsh. 

1. 1004. For Selden's Chapter on Precedence see his Titles of Honour, 
ch. xl Rouge Dragon (Mr G. Adams) tells me that the order of precedence 
has varied from time to time, and that the one now in force differs in many 
points from Hassell*s. 

1. 1040. Nurrieris. I find no snch name in Selden's chap, ix., Of Women. 
poes the word mean ' foster-mothers or fathers,' from the Latin " Nutricarii, 
Matricul&rii, quibus enutriendi ac educandi infantes projectos cnra incnmbe- 
bat : Nourissiera. Yita S. Goaris cap. 10 : Hcecque eonsuetudo erai, ut quando 
^Uouii homo de ipsis infarUibtu projeciis misericordia vellet curam habere, ab 
Hits, quos Nutricarios vocant, matrieulariis S. Petri eompararett et illi Episcopo 
ipsum infantem pr€esentare deberetU, et posiea Episcopi auctoritas eumdem homi- 
nem de illo Nutricario cot^rmabat. Id clarius explicatur a Wandelberto in 
Vita ejusdem Sancti, cap. 20." Ducange, ed. 1845. 



The following list of Names of Fish, from Yarrell, may be found conye- 
nient for reference. 



Names of Fish from TarrelVs 
EnfUih Nunea 

Basse 
Bleak 
Bream or Carp-Bream 

„ the common Sea- 
Brill, or Pearl, Kite, 

Bbxtt, Bonnet-Flenk 
Butt, Flook, or Flounder 

Common Cod, or Keeling 

Green Cod 

Conger 

Dace, Dare, or Dait 

Dog Fish (the common), 
The Picked Dog-Fish, or 
Bone Dog (Sussex), Hoe 

(Orkney) 
Small Spotted Dog Fish 

or Morgay (Scotl.), Robin 

Huss (Sussex Coast) 
Large Spotted Dog Fish, or 

Bounce (Scotl. & Devon) 



History of British Fish, 1841, 2nd ed. 

lAtin Nunei. Tmt.. toL. pafe 

Perea labrax i 8 

Lueiseus, or Oyprinus albnmus i 419 

4bramis, or Cyprinus brama i 382 

Pagellus eenirodontus i 123 

Rhombus vulgaris, or 

Pleuronectes rhombus ii 231 

Pleuronectes flesus, or ii 303 

Platessaflesus 

Morrhua vulgaris, or ii 221 

'Gadus morrhua (Jenyns) 

Merlangus virens (Cuvier) ii 256 

Gadus virens (Linmeus) 

Conger vulgaris, or Murana conger ii 402 

Leuciscus vulgaris, or Cyprinus i 404 
leuciscus 

Spinax acanthias, or ii 524 

Squalus acanthias 



Sey Ilium eameula, or 
Squalus canicula 

Sey Ilium stellaris 



ii487 



ii493 



lOHN RUSSELL8 BOKE OF NURTURE. 



227 



English Names. 

Black-mouthed Dog-Fish, or 

Eyed Dog-Fish (Cornwall) 
The Smooth Hoond or 

Shate-toothed Shark, 

Raj-mouthed Dog (Cornwall) 
Dory, or Dor^e 
Sharp-nosed Eel 
Broad-nosed Eel 
Flounder, or Flook (Merret). 

Mayock, Fluke (Edinb.), Butt. 
Graylmg 

Gudgeon 

Ked Gurnard 
Haddock 

Hake 

Herring 
Holibut 

Homfish, Garfish, Sea-pike, 

Long Nose, &c. 
Keeling. See Common Cod 
Lampem, or Biver Lamprey • 
Lamprey 
Ling 

Luce, or Pik^; 

Lump-fish 

Mackarel 

Merlingy or Whiting 

Minnow 

Mullet, grey, or Common 

Munena 

Perch 

Pike 

Plaice 

Roach 

Salmon 



Latin Names. 

Seyllium melanotlomum 

SqtuUus musteluSi or 
Muitelus lavts 



Yar., ToL. page 

ii495 



ii619 



Zeua/aber 

Anguilla (umtirostris, or vulgaris 

Anguilla latirostris 

Flate^sa^/lesus 

ThymaUua vulgaris, or 
Salmo thymaUus 
Gobiojluviatilis, or 
Cgprinus gobio 
Trigla cticulus, or lineafa 
Morrhua agle/inus, or 
Oadus aglefinus 
Merludus vulgaris, or 
Oadus merlucius 
Clupea harengus 
Hippoglossus vulgaris^ or 
Pleuronectes hippoglossus 
Belone vulgaris, or 
£sox belone 

PetromyzonfluviatiUs 
Petromyzon marinus 
Lota molva (Cuvier), or 
Qadus molva (Linn^ns) 
Psox lucius 

Scqmber scombrus, or vulgaris 
Merlangus vulgaris (Cuvier), pt 
Gadus merlangus (Linnsens) 
Leuciscus, or Cyprinus phoxinus 
Mugil capito, or cephalus 
Murana Selena 
Percajluviatilis 
Esox lucius 
Platessa vulgaris 
Cyprinus rutilis 
Salmo Solar 



1183 
ii381 
ii396 
ii303 

iil36 

1371 

i 3863 
ii233 

11253 

iil83 
ii321 

1442 

11221 
11604 
11598 
11264 

1484 
11365 

1137 
11244 

1423 
1234 

11406 
i 1 
1434 

11297 
1399 

ii 1 



* The Lampems hare been taken in the Thames at Teddington thia autumn 
(1866) in extraordinary quantities. 

15 • 



228 



NOTES TO RUSSELLS SOKE OF NURTURE. 



iDSfUlhNUDM. 


lAtin Names. Tmt. 


., ▼ol., iMfle 


Bmelt. Spirling and Sparling in 


Salmo Sperlanus, or 


u75ft 


Sootland 


Osmenu JS^lanui 


129 


Sturgeon, the Commoni 


Adpenser Sturio 


ii475 


„ the Broad-nosed 


Acipenser latirostria 


ii479 


Swordfish 


Xiphiai gladiuM 


ilG4 


Tench 


Tinea tulgarU, or 
Cyprinua tinea 


1375 


Thomback 


Raia clavata 


ii583 


Trout, Common 


Salmo fario 


ii 85 


Turbot, or Rawn Fleuk and 


Jthombus maximus, or 


ii324 


Bannock Fluck (Scotl.) 


Pleuronectes maximua 




Yendace or Vendis (? Venprides, 


CoregonuB Willughbii, or 


iil46 


1. 821, BusseU) 


Coregonua Mansnula (Jenyns) 




Whiting, or Merling 

1 


Merlangu9 vulgaris (Cuvier) 
Gadus merlangus (Linnaeus) 


ii244 



NOTES TO RUSSELL. LAWRENS ANDREWS ON FISH. 229 



fijdrBttd about ^xslj front '' S^e mhh Igfe H nvtvccu 

of man, 91 btBit$ / strftxdffi / fbbUs H fiBs^es 

S be moste ktioben." 

A VEBT rare black-letter book, without date, and hitherto 
undescribed, except perhaps incorrectly by Ames (vol. 1, p. 
412, and vol. 3, p. 1531), has been lent to me by Mr 
Algernon Swinbame. Its title is given above : " The noble 
lyfe and natures of man " is in large red letters, and the rest 
in smaller black ones, all surrounded by woodcuts of the 
wonderful animals, mermaids, serpents, birds, quadrupeds 
with men's and women's heads, a stork with its neck tied in 
a knot, and other beasts " y be most knowen.*' The illustra- 
tions to each chapter are wonderfully quaint. The author of it 
says in his Frologus " In the name of ower sauiour criste • 
lesu, maker & redemour of al mankynd / I Lawrens Andrewe 
of ike towne of Calls haue translated for Johtf/ines does- 
borrowe, booke prenter in the cite of Andwarpe, this pr»ent 
volume deuyded in thre partes, which were neuer before in 
no matemall langage prentyd tyl now / " As it is doubtful 
whether another copy of the book is known, I extract from 
the Third Part of this incomplete one such notices of the fish 
mentioned by Russell or Wynken de Worde, as it contains, 
with a few others for curiosity's sake : — 

here after followeth of the natures of the fisshes of the See 
whiche be right profitable to be vnderstaffde / Wherof I wyll 
wryte be the helpe and grace of almighty god, to whose laude 
ft prayse this mater ensueth. 

Cap. Psimo, 

ABremon* is a fruteful fisshe that bathe moche sede / but it J^^^^J^ ^^ 
is nat through mouynge of the he / but only of the owne bap. ziuj : p. sa 
proper nature / and than she rubbcth her belly upon the '*"*^* 
groujide or sande / and is sharpe in handeUnge / & salt of 
sauour / and this fisshe saueth her yonges in her bely whan it 
is tempestius weder / ft when the weder is ouerpast, than she 
vomyteth them out agayne. 

• AfipafiKf a fish found in the sea and the Nile, perhaps the 
breamy 0pp. Hal. i. 244. Liddell & Scott. 



230 



KOTES TO BU8SELL. LAWBSN8 ANDREWS ON FISH. 



JSel (BuiMll. 1. 
718). 



Itof noiex; 
bbwtiOMtad. 



Herring {ftatmSl, 
1.728}. 



Is delidons when 
tnah, 

(RnneU, 1. 748) 
or salted. 

Dlea when it feela 
the air. 



Whale f (Buflsell, 
1. 682). 



Shipmen cast 
anchor on him. 



and make a fire 
onhhn. 

He BWiniB aWa7. 
and droWha them. 



GoldenpoUf 



Ahuha, 



When the Ahttna 
lain danger. 



he puts his head 
In his belly, and 



Cap. ij. 

ANgoilla / the £le is lyke a serpent of fascyon, & may leue 
eight yere« & without water yi. dayes whan the wind is in 
the northe / in the wint^ they wyll haue moche water, & that 
clere / amo;rge them b nonther male nor female / for they 
become fisshes of ike slyme of other fisshes / they must be 
flayne / they sulFer a longe dethe / they be best rosted, but it 
is longe or they be ynouge / the droppinge of it is gode for 
paines in the eares. 

Cap. iij. 

A Lee, the heringe, is a Fisshe of the see / & very many be 
taken betweeue bretayn & germaia / & also in denmarke 
aboute a place named schonen / And he is best from the 
begijfnynge of August to deoember / and when he is fresshe 
takef» / he is a very delicious to be eten. And also whan he 
hath ben salted he is a specyall fode vnto man / He can nat 
leue without wat^, for as sone as he feleth the ayre he is 
dede / & they be taken in gret hepb togeder / & specially 
where they se light, there wyll they be, than so they be taken 
with nettis / which oommeth be the diuyne Frouydens of 
almighty Qod, 

Cap. V. 

ASpidocheloA / as Phisiolognf saith, it is a monstrous thinge 
in the see, it is a gret whale fisshe, & hath an ouer-growen 
rowgh skinue / & he is moste parte wtt^ his bake on hye aboue 
the water in such maner that some shypmen tiat see him, wene 
that it is a lytell ylande / & whan they come be it, they 
cast their ankers upon him / & go out of theyr shippes & make 
a fyre upon hym to dresse theyr metys / and as sone as he 
feleth the hete of the fyre / thanne he swymmeth fro the place, 
& drowneth them, & draweth the shippe to the grounde / And 
his proper nature is, whan he hath yonges, ikat he openeth his 
mouthe wyde open / & out of it fleeth a swete ayre /totke 
which the fisshes resorte, and than he eteth them. 

AAurata is a fysshe in the see thai hathe a hede shinynge 
lyke golde. 

Cap. li. 

AHuna is a monster of the see very glorisshe, as Alberts 
saith / what it eteth it toumeth to greas in his body / it 
hathe no mawe but a bely / & that he filleth so full that he 
speweth it out agayne / & that can he do so lyghtely / for he 
hath no necke / whan he is in peryl of dethe be other fisshes / 
than he onfacyoneth himselfe as rounde as a bowle, wit/idraw- 
ynge his hede into his bely / whoM he hathe then hounger / He 



NOTES TO RUSSELL. LAWREN8 ANDREWE ON FISH. 231 

dotlie ete a parte of himselfe rather than (Ae other iisshes eats a bit or 
sholde «te him hole and aU. *'*°^'- 

Cap, xiii. 

BOrbotha be iisshes very slepery, somewhat lyke an ele / jsorbotha. 
hauLige wyde mouthes & great hedes / it is a swete mete / 
and whan it is xij. yere dlde, than it waxeth bigge of body, 
Nota / Botte that is a floojider of the fresshe water / & they buu, or rumnder 
swimme on the flatte of their body, & they haue finnes rouj^de Sd^te i^^ 
about theyr body / & wttA a sothem wynde they waxe fatte / 
& they have rede spottis. Brewna is a breme, & it is a fisshe Bnam (BoBseU, i. 
of the riuer / & whan he seeth the pyke that wyll take hym j ^ '- 
than he sinketh to the botom of the wat^ & maketh it so 
trobelous that the pyke can nat se hym. 

Cap. sdiii, 

BAlena is a great beste in the see, and bloweth moche water saima. (The 
from him, as if it were a clowde / the shippes be in great Menmui. See 
dauAger of him somtyme / & they be sene moste towardes J»ote, p. 2», hcra 
winter / for in the somer they be hidden in swete brod places i. m2.) 
of the wat^ where it casteth her yo«ges, & suffereth so grete ^^° "**' ^ 
payne ikai tha» he fleteth aboae the water as one desiringe breed in mnuner. 
helpe / his mouth is in the face, & therefore he casteth the more 
water / she bringeth her yonges forthe lyke other bestis on 
erthe, & it slepeth / in te/^tpestius weder she hydeth her ^'^"*** uh*^^ 
yonges in her mouthe / and whaA it is past she voydeth them yoanx in her 
out agayne / & they growe x. yere. mouth. 

Cap. xvi. 

CAncer the creuyce is a Fishe of the see that is dosed in a crevioe <sea and 
harde shelle, hauyng many fete and clawes / and euer it crayfish), 
crepeth bacward / & the he bathe two pynnes on his bely, k (RmeeU. i. «n, i. 
Me she hathe none / whan he wyll engender, he dimmeth on How they 
her bake, and she tumeth her syde towardes him, & so they e*>««°der, 
fulfyll their workes. In roaye they chaunge their cotes, & in 
winter they hyde them fiue monethes dtiringe / whan the and bybtnute. 
crenes hath dronken milke it may leue longe without wat^. 
when he b olde, he hathe ij. stones in his hed with rede 
spottes that haue great vertue / for if they be layde in 
drjnke / they withdryue the payne frome the herte. the 
creuyce eteth the Oysters, & geteth thei» be policye / HowtheCnyfish 
for whan the oyster gapeth, he throweth lytell stones in him, q*"JJJJ* ^ *** 
and so geteth his fishe out, fo^ it bydeth than open. 

The Operacion. 

^ The Asshes of hym is gode to make white tethe / & to 
kepe the motes out of the clothes / it wtt^dryueth byles, & 



232 



NOTES TO RUBSELL. LAWRENS ANDBEWE ON FISH. 



Frah-Watar 
Onyfiah if hard 
to digest. 



Gaocitti. 
Gapitaioa. 



Corp. 



1m difflcalt to net 



WhdU 



LikM Harmony. 
Gets harpooned, 



robe the harpoon 
Into liimielf, and 
ilaya lilmaelf . 



Oonche, at' 
MvaeU. 



Sea-aiaiifl. 



heleth mangynes. The creujce of tbe fresshe water geaeth 
gret fode, but it is an heuj mete to disieste. 

Cap. xviij. 

CAuciM IB a fisshe that will nat be taken witil no hokes / but 
eteth of the bayte & goth his way quyte. Capitaiatf 
is a ly tel fisshe witA a great hede / a wyde roimde mouthe / & 
it hydeth him vnder the stones. Nota. Carpera is a carpe, & 
it is a fysshe that hathe great scales / and the female hathe a 
great rowghe, & she can bringe forthe no yonges tyllshe haue 
receyaed mylke of her make / & that she receyueth at the 
mouth / and it is yli for to take / for whan it perceyneth that 
it shalbe taken vriih the net, ihtM it thrusteth the hede into 
the mudde of the water / and than the nette slyppeth ouer 
him whiche waye soener it come ; & some holde them fast be 
the groonde, grasse / or erbis, & so saue themselfe. 

Cap. xix. 

CEtos is the greatest whale fisshe of all / his mouthe is so 
wyde that he bloweth vp the water as yf it were a clowde / 
wherwitA he drowneth many shippes / but whan the maryners 
spye where he is / than thei accompany them a gret many of 
shyppes togeder about him with diners instrumentis of musike, 
& they play with grete armonye / & the fische is very gladde 
of this armonye / & commeth fletynge a^boue the watere to 
here the melody, & than they haue amonge them an instru- 
ment of yron, the whiche they feste^i in-to the harde skuine, & 
the weght of it synketh downwarde in to ike fat & grese / & 
sodenly with that al the instrumentes of musike be styll, and 
ihe shyppes departe fromcthens, & anone he sinketh to the 
grownde / & he feleth that the salt watere smarteth in (he 
wounde, tha» he tumeth his bely vpwaerd and rubbeth his 
wownde agay^st the ground, & the more he rubbeth, the 
depere it entreth / & he rubbeth so longe that he sleeth hym- 
self / and whan he is dede, than commeth he vp agayne and 
sheweth him selfe dede / as he dyd before quicke / and than 
the shippes gader them togeder agayne, and take, & so lede 
hym to lo;rde, & do theyr profyte with hym. 

Cap. zxij. 

COnche be abydynge in the harde shellis: as the mone 
growth or waneth, so be the conches or muscles fulle or 
nat full, but smale / & there be many sortes of conches or 
musclys / but the best be they that haue the perles in. 

Cap. xxiij. 

COochele / is a snayle dwellinge in the water & also on the 
lo«de / they go out of theyr bowses / & they thrusteout 



NOTES TO RUSSELL. LAWBENS ANDREWE ON FISH. 233 

.ij. longe homes wherwith thej fele wether they go / for they 
se nat where they crepe. 

Cap. xxiiij. 

THe Conger is a se fisshe facioned like an ele / but they be otmger. 
moche greter in quajityte / & whan it bloweth sore, than 
waxe they fatte. % Folippos is also a stronge fisshe t?iat PoUppus. 
onwarse he wyl pull a man out of a shyp. yet the conger is so 
stronge that he wyll tere polippnm asonder with his teth, & in 
winter ihe conger layth in the depe cauemes or holes of the 
water. & he is nat taken but in somer. % Esculapios sayth. 
Coretz is a fisshe that hydeth hym in the depe of Me water c<nvto. 
whan it rayneth / for yf he receiued any rayne, he sholde waxe 
blynde, and dye of it. ^ lorath sayth. The fisshes that be 
named se cranes / wha»ne they hane yo»ges / they make suche Aeo-erevCee. 
noise tAat through theyr noyse they be fouiide and taken. 

Cap. xxvij. 
Elphinitf is a monster of the see, & it hath no voyce, but Dolphin or 



D 



it singheth lyke a man / and towarde a tempest it play- ^™^ 
eth ypon the water. Some say whan they be taken that they 
wepe. The delphin hath none eares for to here / nor no nose 
for to smelle / yet it smelleth very well & sharpe. And it 
siepeth ypon the water very hartely, that thei be hard ronke 
a farre of / and thei leue Cxi. yere. & they here gladly play»ge 
on instrumentes, as lutes / harpes / tabonrs / and pypes. They 
loue their yonges very well, and they fede them longe with the 
mylke of their pappes / & they haue many yonges, & amonge 
them all be .ij. olde ones, that yf it fortuned one of Me yonges 
to dye, than these olde ones wyll burye them depe in the 
gorwnd [sic] of the see / because othere fisshes sholde nat ete 
thys dede delphyn ; so well they loue theyr yonges. There 
was ones a kinge ^hai had taken a delphin / whyche he caused 
to be bonnde wit^ chaynes fast at a hauen where as the 
shippes come in at / & there was alway the pyteoust 
wepynge / and lamentynge, that the kinge coude nat for 
pyte / but let hym go agayne. 

Cap. xxxi. 

ECheola is a muskle / in whose fysshe is a precious stone / scheoia, • 
& be night they flete to the water syde / and there they **"^*'* 
reoeyue the heuenly dewe, where throughe there groweth 
in them a costly margaret or orient perle / & they flete a great 
many togeder / & he that knoweth (he water best / gothe 
before & ledeth the other / & whan he b taken, all the other 
scater a brode, and geteth them away. 



234 



NOTES TO RUSSELL. LA WRENS ANDREWE ON FISH. 



Echiniuk 



E 



EWL 



Phocw. 

Kills Ui wife and 
geU aaothar. 



HftUta. 

Tftkesher Tooiig 
ont of her womb 
to lo<A ftt 'em. 



Sword-FUi. 



Oasterioe. 



OUociif. 



Ondgwm. 



QnvaoL 



Cap. XXX7L 
chjiua is a lytell f jsshe of half a fote longe / & hath sharpe 
prykcles vnder his bely in stede of fete. 

Cap. xxxvii. 

Esox is a very grete fisshe in that water danowe be the 
londe of hiuigary^ / he is of siiche bygues that a carte 
with .iiij. horses can nat cary hym awaje / and he hath nat 
many bones, but his hede is full / and he hath swete fisshe 
lyke a porke, and whan this fysshe is taken, tfaa»ne geue hym 
mylke to drynke, and ye may carye hym many a myle, and 
kepe hym longe quicke. 

xxxviii. 

FOcas is a see buUe, & is very stronge & dangerous / and 
he feghteth euer with his wyf tyll she be dede / and 
whan he hath kylled her, than he casteth her out of his place, 
& seketh another, and leueth with her very well tyl he dye / 
or tyll his wyfe ouercome him and kylle hym / he bydeth alway 
in one place / he and his yonges leue be suche as they can 
gete. ^ Halata is a beste that dothe on-naturall dedys / for 
whajf she feleth her yo»ges quycke, or stere in her body / 
tha« she draweth them out & loketh vpon them / yf she se 
they be to yo;ige, than she putteth them in agayne, & lateth 
them grow tyll they be bygger. > 

Cap. XV, 

GLadivs is a flsshe so named because he is mouthed after 
the fascyoA of a sworde poynt / and ther-fore often 
tymes he perseth Me shyppes thorough, & so causeth them to 
be drowned. Aristotiles. Gastarios is a fisshe lyke the 
scorpion / and is but lytell greter than a spyder / & it 
styngeth many fisshes with her poyson so that they ca» nat 
endure nowhere / and he styngeth the dolphin on the hede that 
it entreth in-to ike brayne. % Isidorus. Glaucus b a whyte fissh 
that is but selden sene except in darke rayne weder / and is 
nat in season but in the howndes dayes. 

Cap. xli. 

GObio is a smale longe fissh with a roiuide body / full of 
scales and litell blacke spottys / and some saye they leue 
of drou^de caryon / & the fisshers say contrarye, that they 
leue in clere watere in sandye graueil / and it is a holsom 
mete. % Grauus is a fisshe that hath an iye aboue on hys hede, 
and therwitA he loketh yp, and saueth hym from them that 
wyll eat hym. 



NOTES TO RUSSELL. LAWRENB ANDREWS ON PISH. 235 

liii. 

LUcius is a pike / a fisshe of the riuer witA a wyde moathe ^^^* 
& sharpe teth : whan tAe perche spieth him / he turneth 
his tayle towardes him / & than the pike dare nat bjte him 
because of his finnes, or he can nat swalowe him because he is 
80 sharpe / he eteth venimoi^ bestes, as todes, frogges, & eata veiiomcraB 
suche like ; yet it is sayde that he is very holsom for seke 
peple. He eteth fisshes almost as moche as himselfe / whan 
they be to bigge, tha» he byteth the;» in ij. peces, & swaloweth 
the one halfe first, & tha» the other / he is engendered w»tA ^ begotten by a 
a westeme wynde. 

Cap. Ivii. 

MUs marin?^, the see mouse, gothe out of the water, & there Bei^Mouae, 
she laith her egges in a hole of the erthe, & couereth the 
eges, & goth her way & bydeth frorae them x x x, dayes, and 
than commeth agayne and oncouereth them, & than there be 
yo«ges, and them she ledeth into the water, & they be first al 
blynde. Muscul»« is a fisshe that layth harde shellis, and of MoBcaiiu to th« 
it the great monster balena receyueth her nature, & it is 
named to be the cocke of balena. Mustela.is the see wesyll/ 8e»-weMi0. 
she casteth her yonges lyke other bestes / & wha» she hath 
cast them, yf she perceiue that they shall be fou;»de, she 
swaloweth them agayne into her body, and than seketh a place 
wher as they may be surer without dauiiger / & than she 
speweth them out agayne. 

Cap. lix. 

MUrena is a longe fisshe w»tA a weke skinne lyke a serpent / Luavnj. 
& it conceyueth of the serpent vipera / it liueth longest 
in the tayle, for whan that is cut of, it dyeth incontinent / it 
must be soden in gode wyne "with herbes & spices, or ellis it J*^^ ^ *»*i«i '" 
is very daungerotM to be eten, for it hath many yenymous 
humours, and it is euyll to disieste. 

Cap. Ixi. 

MUlus is a see fysshe that is smale of body / & is only a HUiu: 
mete for gentils : & there be many maners of these / 
but the best be those that haue ij. berdes vnd^ the mouthe / hu s beardi, 
& whan it is fayre weder, than they waxe fatte / whan he is 
dede than he is of many colours. 

Cap. Ixiiij. 

Feydes be monsters of the see, all rowghe of body / & whan Newidi. 
any of them dyeth, than the other wepe. of this is 
spoken in balena, the .xiiij. chapter. 



236 



NOTES TO RUSSELL. LAWRENS ANDREWS ON FISH. 



Orehnn. 



IiBalMM'tdMMUy 
enemy. 



Y /^rchiM is a monster of tie se / whose Ijkenes can nat 







Peari-Oyitcr. 



Pagrus. 
Seft-Peeoock. 

Pereofl. 

Pecten: wlnkt. 



Plnoa. 



How he cfttchea 



Ftaioe. 



PoUppus. 



RmnlniB. 



lightelj be shewed / & he is mortal eimemje to the 
balene, & tereth asonder the bely of the balene / & the balene 
is so boystous thai he can nat tome hjm to defende him, and 
tAai costeth him his lyfe / for as sone as he feleth him selfe 
wouffded, than he si;iketh doane to the botom of the water 
agayne / & the Orchnii throweth at him with stones / & thus 
balena endith his lyfe. 

Cap. Ixvi. 

OStren is an oyster that openeth his shell to receyne the 
dewe & swete ayre. In the oyster groweth naturali 
orient perles that oftentymes laye on the see stronde, & be but 
lytell regarded, as Isidonis saith. 

Cap. Ixvij. 

Pagnis is a fisshe that hath so harde tethe thai he by teth the 
oyster shelles in peces, & eteth out the fisshe of themr. 
Nota. Fauns maris is the Fecocke of the Se, & is lyke the 
pecocke of the londe, bothe his backe, necke, & hede / & the 
nether body is fisshe Nota. Fercus is of diuers colours, & 
swift in roxnynge in the water, & hathe sharpe finnes, & is a 
holsome mete for seke people. Pecten is a fisshe that is in 
sandy growide, & wha» he is meued or stered, he wynketh. 

Cap. Ixx. 

Pinna is a fisshe thai layeth alwaye in the mudde, and hathe 
alway a lodisma», & some name it a lytel hoge, & it hathe 
a rouiide body, & it is in a shell lyke a muscle ; it layth in 
the mone as it were dede, gapyng open / and than the smale 
fisshes come into his shel, weni^ig of him to take their repaste / 
but whan he feleth thai his shell is almoste ful / than he 
doseth his mouthe, & taketh them & eteth them / & parteth 
them amonge his felowes. The playoe is well knowen fisshe, 
for he is brode & blake on the one syde, and whyte on the 

other. 

Cap. kyij. 

POlippus hath gret strength in his fete / what he therin 
cacheth, he holdeth it fast / he sprixgeth somtyme vp to 
the shippes syde, & snacheth a man with him to the grou«de 
of the see, & there eteth him / & that that he leueth, he 
casteth it out of his denne agayn / they be moche in the se 
about Yenis / & he is taken in barellis where hartys homes 
be layd in / for he is gladly be those homes. 

Cap. kxvij. 

RUmbus is a great fisshe stronge & bolde / but he is very 
slow in swiffxmixge, therfor can he gete his mete but 



NOTES TO RUSSELL. LAWRENS ANDREWE ON FISH. 237 

soberly with swLwmyng / therfor he layth him down in the 
grou^de or madde, & hideth him there / and all the fisshes 
that he can onercome / coi»mynge forby him, he taketh and 
eteth them. 

Cap. Ixxviij. 

RUbus is a fisshe of the grekes se & of the sees of ytaly / Bni»w- 
they be rou;(de lyke a ringe, & hane many rede spottes / 
& is full of sharpe finnes & pinnis / he is slow in swijumynge 
because he is so brode / he gothe be the grou/tde, & wayteth 
there his praye / & suche fisshes as he can gete he burieth in 
the sandes, & it is a very swete fisshe. Ryache be fisshes Byache. 
that be rou»de / somtyme they be in length & brede two 
cubites / & it hath a long tayle / theron be sharpe pinnes / & 
it b slowe in swi/nmynge. 

Cap. Ixxix. 

Salmo is a fysshe engendred in the swete water, & he waxeth saiwm, 
longe & gret / & also he is heuy / & his colour nor sauour 
is nat gode tyll he hane ben in the salt wat^r & proued it / 
thus draweth the samon to the water agaynst iAe streme ; he 
neuer seaseth tyll he haue ben in the se and returned agayn to 
lus olde home, as Phisiologua saith / his fisshe' is rede, & he ['?fleshe.] 
may nat liue in a swet standinge water / he must be in a 
fresshe riuer that he may playe up and dowie at his plesure. 

Salpa is a fowle fisshe and ly tell set by / for it will neuer be Saipo. siockfith r 
ynough for no maner of dressinge tyll it haue ben beten 
with grete hamers & staues. 

Cap. Ixxij. 

SErra is a fysshe with great tethe, and on his backe he hathe sens, 
sharpe fynnes lyke the combe of a cocke / and lagged 
lyke a sawe wherew»tA thys monstrous fisshe cutteth a ship Cuts throagh 
thorough, & whan he seeth a shippe couimynge, than he ■'»ip»w»"»"»flm. 
setieth yp his fi;»nes & thi^keth to sayl with the shippe as 
fast as it / but whan he seeth that he can nat continue / than 
he latteth his finnes fall agayn & destroieth the shippe with 
the people, and than eteth the dede bodyes. Nota. Scilla is ScjUa. 
a monster in the see betwene Italye & Sicill/ it is great 
ennemye vnto mait. It is faced & handed lyke a gentylwoman / 
but it hath a wyde mouthe & ferfull tethe / & it is belied like 
a beste, & tayled lyke a dolphin / it hereth gladly singinge. It 
is in the wBier so stronge that it can nat be ouercome / but 
on the lond it is but weke. 

Cap. Ixxxiij. 

Syrene. the merroayde is a dedely beste that bringeth a man 81»d. 
gladly to dethe / frome the nauyll vp she is lyke a woman 



238 



NOTES TO BU88ELL. LAWRENS ANDBEWE ON FISH. 



Stren !b Hke aa 
etgle below. 



alnfi Bweei fODgB 
tomArimenp 



Mid tMiv them to 
pleoea. 



Slroiit, tcrpcntiB 



Solarli. 



Sou, 



Solopendxla. 



Bea-Socnpfon. 
[t orig. Tge] 



Eato BO food, 
has no mouth. 



grows ikt on «ast 
wind. 



Has no bones in 
bis body. 



Tlntlnalas. 



with a dredfall face / a long slymye here, a grete body, & is 
lyke the egle in the nether parte / haui»ge fete and talentis to 
tear asonder suche as she geteth / her tayl is scaled like a 
fisshe / and &he singeth a maner of swete song, and therwith 
deceyueth many a gode mariner / for wha» they here it, they 
fall on slepe commonly / & than she commeth, and draweth 
them out of the shippe, and tereth them asonder / they here 
their yo»ges in their armes, & geue them soake of their papis 
whiche be very grete, haiiginge at their brestis / bat tie wyse 
maryners stoppe their eares whan they se her / for whan she 
playth on the wat^, all they be in fear, & than they cast out 
an empty toxne to let her play mih it tyll they be past her / 
this is specifyed of the«i that haue sene it. Ther be also in 
some places of arabye, serpe»tis named sirenes, that ronne 
faster than an horse, & haue wynges to flye. 

[Cap. Ixxxv.] 

Solaris is a fishe so named because it is gladly be the londes 
syde in the soime / he hathe a great hede, a wyde mouth, 
& a blake skine, & slipper as an ele / it waxeth gret, & is gode 
to be eten. Solea is the sole, that is a swete fisshe and 
holsom for seke people. 

Cap. Izxzvi. 

SOlopendria is a fisshe / whan he hathe swalowed i«an 
angle, than he spueth out alhis gnttes till he be quyt of 
the hoke / and than he gadereth ui all hb guttes agayne. The' 
Scorpion of the see is so named because whair he is taken in 
any mannys handes he pricketh him with his stinge of his 
tayle. Plinif» saith that the dede creuyoe that layeth- on the 
drye sonde be the see syde, becommeth scorpyons. 

Cap. Ixxxix. 

STurio / the sturgion is a gret fisshe in the ro«ninge waters / 
and he taketh no fode in his body, but lyueth of the 
styl and swete ayres therfore he hathe a small bely / mth a 
hede and no mouthe, but vnder his throte he hathe a hole that 
he doseth whan he wyll / he openeth it whan it is fayre 
weder / & with an east wynde he waxeth fat / and whan that 
the north winde bloweth, than falleth he to the gromide / it is 
a fisshe of ix. fote longe whan he is ful growen / he hath 
whyte swete flesshe & yolow fatte / & he hathe no bone in all 
his body but only in his hede. 

Cap. xcij. 

r!na is a tenche of the fresshe water, and is fedde in the 
mudde lyke the ele / & is moche lyke of colours : it is a 
swete fisshe, but it is euyll to disiest. ^ Tintinalus is a fayre 



NOTES TO RUSSELL. LAWRENS ANDREWE ON FISH. 239 

xneiy iisshe, & is swete of saaour, & well smellinge lyke the 
tyme, where of it bereth the name. ^ Torpido is a fisshe. Torpeda 
but who-so handeleth hym shalbe lame & defe of lymmes / 
that he shall fele no thyng / & it hathe a maner of Squitana 
tAat is spoke» of in Me Ixxuiii. chapter*, and his nature. 

Cap. xciij. 

^ Tmcka^ / the trowte is a fisshe of the ryuer, & Tnnu. 

hathe scales, & jjion his body spottys of yelow and blodye 
coloure. & his fisshe' is rede frome the monthe of July to the [trowhe] 
monthe of Nouember / and is moche sweter than the fresshe 
samon ; and all the other part of the yere his fisshe* b whyte. 

Cap. xcv. 

rstudo is a fysshe in a shelle / & is in Me se of Inde / ft his Tettodo. 
shelle is very great & like a muskle / & be nyght they 
go out for theyr mete / ft whan they haue eten theyr bely 
full / tha» they slepe swymming vpon the wat^. tha» ther 
come iij. fisshers botes / of Me wiche .iij. twayn take one of 
these muskles. Solinus sayth. that this muskle hathe his 
vppermest shell so brode that it may couere a howse / where 
many folke may hyde them Tuder / And it gothe out the 
wat^ vpon the londe / ft there it hiyth an hondred egges as 
grete as gose eggis / and oouer them wttA erth / & often- 
tymes be night it gothe to the eggys ft layeth 7po;» them vriih 
her brest, ft than become they yonges. 

[This copy of Admiral Swinburne's Andrewe ends with the 
next column of this page, sign. v. i. back, with an illustration 
not headed, but which is that to Cap. xcvij.] 

> Sqnatinitf is a fisshe in tho se, of fiue cnbites longe : his tayle is 
a fote brode, ft he hideth him in the slimy mudde of the se, ft 
marreth al other fisshes that come nigh him : it hath so shaipe a 
skinne that in som places they shaue wode with it, ft bone also / 
on his skinne is blacke short here. The natnre hathe made him so 
harde that he cannat almoste be persed with nouther yron nor stele. 



Note to BcUenOy p. 231. J^ar [in ^e se of Brytain] bn^ ofte 
ytake dolphyns, ft se-calves, & baUnesy (gret fysch, as hyt -were of 
whasles kinde) ft drvers manere schyl-^sch, among J^e whoche 
schyl-fysch bn^ moskles ^at habbe|7 wi|»ynne ham maigey perles 
of fd manere colour of hu^ of rody A re<L^of purpre ft of bla^ & 
specialych & moost of whyte. Trevisa's Uigden, m Morris's Sped- 
meiUy p. 334. For 'the cocke of Balena' see Musealns, p. 235, 
aboTe ; and for its ' mortal ennemye,' Orchun, p. 236. 



(From The Booke of Compoundes, foL Ixviii) 

Sicknea. 
Will boxyng doe any pleasure ? 
Health. 
"^U"^ forsothe, verie moche : As example, if you haue 
-■■ any sausie loughte, or loitryng lubber within your 
Fwiuc7i<mti» house, that is either to busy of his hand or tongue : 
and can do nothing but plaie one of the partes of the 
.24. orders of knaues. There is no pretier medicen for 
the bert care i0 this, nor soner prepared, then boxyng is : iiL or .iiii. 

Boxing. 

tymes well set on, a span long on bothe the chekes. 
And although perhaps this wUl not alter his lubberly 
condicions, yet I assure you, it wil for a time chaunge 
his knauishe complexion, and helpe him of the grene 
sicknes : and euery man maie practise this, as occasion 
shall seme hym in his familie, to reforme them. Bui- 
leins Bulwarke of Defence^ 1562. 



Hemp. 



(From The booke of Simples, foL xxviL back.) 

Marcellus, 
FTlHere is an herbe whiche light fellowes merily will 
ThenamMof -*- call Gallowgrasse, Neckeweede, or the Tristrams 
knot, or Saynt Audres lace, or a bastarde brothers 
badge, with a difference on the left side, &c. you know 
my meaning. 

Hillariua. 
"Hat, you speake of Hempel mary, you terme it 
with manie pretie names. I neuer heard the like 



w 



WILYAH BULLEYN ON* NECKEWEEDE. 241 

tennes giuen to any simple, as you glue to this ; you 
cal it neckwede. A, well, I pray you, woulde you 
know the propertie of this Neckeweede in this kinde ? Neekwetd (« 

halter) 

beinge chaunged into such a lace, this is his vertue. 

Syr, if there be any yonkers troubled with idelnesse 

and loytiyng, hauyng neither leamyng, nor willyng 

handes to labour: or that haue studied Phisicke so 

longe that he or they can giue his Masters purse a Pur- iigoodforthievbh 

gacion, or his Chist, shoppe, and Countinghouse, a 

strong vomit ; yea, if he bee a veiy cunning practicioner 

in false accomptes, he may so suddenly and rashely 

minister, that he may smite his Father, his Maister, or 

his friende &c. into a sudden incurable consumption, 

that he or they shall neuer recouer it againe, but be 

vtterly vndone, and cast either into miserable pouertie, 

prisonment, bankeroute &c. K this come to passe, then 

the ^ best rewarde for this practicioner, is this Necke- [i foi. xxtiu.] 

weede : if there be any swashbuckler, common theefe, for nrMbbockiMi 

ruffen, or murtherer past grace, y nexte remedie is 

this Lace or Corde. For them which neuer loued concored, 

peace nor honestie, this wil ende all the mischief ; this 

is a purger, not of Melancholy, but a finall bamsher of 

all them that be not fit to liue in a common wealth, no and aii Mampt. 

more then Foxes amonge sheepe, or Thistles amonge 

good Come, hurters of trew people. This Hempe, I 

say, passeth the new Diat, bothe in force and antiquitee. 

If yonge wantons, whose paientes haue left them fayre Also for young 

houses, goods and landes, whiche be visciously, idle, ■p^**'*^''" 

vnleamedly, yea or rather beastly brought vp : after the 

death of their saied parentes, their firuites wil spryng who after their 

foorth which they haue learned in their wicked youthe : 

then bankets and brothels will approche, the Harlots waate their an 

with harlota 

will be at hande, with diUghtes and intisementes, the 

Baude will doe hir diligence, robbyng not onlie the 

pursses, but also the hartes of suche yongemen, whiche 

when they be trapped, can neuer skape, one amonge 

16 



242 



WILTAX BULLBTN ON NEOKKWEEDB. 



ftnil robbery 



an hundreth, vntill Hempe breaketh the bande amonge 
and In siimbitng these loytruig loueis. The Dice whiche be bothe smalle 
and lights iu respecte ynto the Goluering, or double 
Cannon shotte or Bollet, yet with small £orce and noyse 
can mine, break downe, and destroy, and caste away 
their one Maisters houses, faire feldes,pleasaunt Woddes* 
and al their money, yea frendes and al together, this 
can the Dice do. And moreouer, can make of worship- 
whiehmak«tm«B full bomc Gcntilmen, miserable beggers, or theefes, yet 

beggan, or . 

thievM. for the time '^ a-loft syrs, hoyghe childe and toume thee, 

Aiif«ofrookie» what should youth do els : I-wisse, not liue like slaues 
^ *^ or pesantes, but all golden, glorious, may with dame 
Venus,, my hartes delight" say they. "What a sweete 
heauen is this : Haue at all, kockes woundes, blond and 
nayles, caste the house out at the window, and let the 
Diuell pay the ^lalte man : a Dogge hath but a day, a 
good mariage will recouer all together :" or els with a 
Bamards blowe, lurkyng in some lane, wodde, or hill 
top, to get that with falshead in an hower, wbiche with 
trueth, labour, & paine, hath bene gathered for per- 
happes .XX. yearcs, to the vtter Tndoyng of some 
honest familie. Here thou seest, gentle Marcellus, a 
miserable Tragedie of a wicked shamelesse life. I nede 
not bring forth the example of the Prodigall childe. 
Luke .xvi Chapter, whiche at length came to grace : It 
is, I feare me, in vaine to talke of him, whose ende was 
good ; but a greate nomber of these flee from grace, and 
come to endes moste vngracioufl, finished only life by 
this Hempe. Although sometime the innocente man 
dieth that way, through periurie for their one propper 
gooddes, as Naboth died for his owne Yineyarde, 
miserable in the eies of the worlde, bnt precious in the 
sight of God. This is one seruice whiche Hempe 
doeth. 

Also this worthy noble herbe Hempe, called Canna* 
bU in Latten, can not bee wanted in a common wealthy 



endswUh 



H«mp. 



The UM of Hemp 



WILTAM BULLEYN ON NBCKEWEBDE. 243 

no Shippe can sayle without Hempe, y sayle clothes, the 
shroudes, stales, tacles, yarde lines, warps & Cables can tothesdior, 
not be made. No Plowe, or Carte can be without Plowman, 
ropes * halters, trace Ac. The Fisher and Fouler nPoi.xxTiii.b.] 

^ ' FUh«r and 

muste haue Hempe, to make their nettes. And no 
Archer can wante his bowe string: and the Malt A«ih«r.* 
man for his sackes. With it the belle is rong, to 
seruice in the Church, with many mo thynges profit- 
able whiche are commonly knowen of euery man, be 
made of Hempe. 



16 • 



Hxm IjiS Regyment, ?i557.] 



[Fol. X. L] 



After DlniMT, 
sleep lUiiding 

■galoita 
cupboard. 



£1 FoL 1, L b.] 



Before bedtime 
be merry. 



Have a Are in 
yoor bedroom. 



bat stand a good 
way off it. 



Shut your 
windows. 



Whole men of what age or complexion so euer they 
he of, shulde take theyr naturall lest and slepe in the 
nyght : and to eschewe meiydyall deep. But and nede 
shall compell a man to slepe after his meate : let hym 
make a pause, and than let hym stande & lene and 
slepe agaynst a cuphorde, or els let hym sytte upryght 
in a chayre and slepe. Slepynge after a full stomacke 
doth ingendre dyuers infyrmyties, it doth hurte the 
splene, it relaxeth the synewes, it doth ingendre the 
dropses and the gowte, and doth make a man looke euyll 
colored. * Beware of veneryous actes hefore the fyrste 
slepe, and specyally heware of suche thynges after 
dyner or after a full stomacke, for it doth ingendre the 
crampe and the gowte and other displeasures. To 
hedwarde he you mery, or haue meiy company aboute 
you, so that to bedwarde no angre, nor heuynes, 
sorowe, nor pensyfulnes, do trouble or dysquyet you. 
To bedwarde, and also in the momynge, vse to haue a 
fyre in your chambre, to wast and consume the euyl 
yapowres within the chambre, for the breath of man 
may putryfye the ayre within the chambre: I do 
advertyse you not to stande nor to sytte by the fyre, 
but stande or syt a good way of from the fyre, takynge 
the flauour of it, for fyre doth aryfie and doth drye vp 
a mannes blode, and doth make sterke the synewes and 
ioyntes of man. In the nyght let the wyndowes of 



ANDREW BORDB ON BLEEP, RISING, AND DRESS. 245 

your howse, specyallye of your chambre, be closed. 

Whan you * be in your bedde,* lye a lytle wbyle on C* ^^- ■• **-3 

your lefte syde, and slepe on your rygbt syde. And fiJS**^®" 

whan you do wake of your fyiste slepe, make water yf 

you feel your bladder charged, & than slepe on the 

lefte side; and looke as ofte as you do wake, so oft 

turne your selfe in the bedde from one syde to the 

other. To slepe grouellynge vpon the stomacke and To deep grorei- 

Ing on the belly, 

bely is not good, oneles the stomacke be slowe and is bed; 

taide of dygestion ; but better it is to laye your hande, 

or your bedfelowes hande, ouer your stomacke, than to 

lye grouellynge. To slepe on the backe vpryght' is on the beck 

opright, Is worse. 

vtterly to be abhorred^ : whan that you do slepe, let 

not your necke, nother your sholders, nother your 

hands, nor feete, nor no other place of your bodye, lye 

bare vndiscouered. Slepe not with an emptye stomacke, 

nor slepe not after that you haue eaten meate one 

howre or two after. In your bed lye with your head 

somwhat hyghe, leaste that the • meate whiche is in [• fol »• ii. M 

your stomacke, thorcwe eructuacions or some other 

cause, ascende to the oiyfe (sic) of the stomacke. Let 

your nyght cap be of scarlet : and this I do aduertyse weer» scarlet 

you, to cause to be made a good thycke quylte of cotton, 

^'^ Compare what Balleyn says : — slope. The night is the 
hest time: the daie is euill: to slepe in the fielde is perilous. 
But vpon, or in the bedde, liyng firste vpon the right 
side, untill yon make water: then ypon the lefte side, is good. 
Bat to lye Tpon the backe, with a gaping month, is danngerons : How to lie in bed. 
and many thereby are made starke ded in their slepe : through 
apoplexia, and obstmccion of the sinewes, of the places yitalle, 
animall, and nutrimentalle. BtUhifCt Bulwarke^ The booke of 
the Vie of $ieke men and medieenei, fol. Ixx. See also Sir John 
Harrington's directions from BonsoTins : ** They that are in 
health, must first sleepe on the right side, because the meate 
may come to the liner, which is to the stomack as a fire vnder the 
pot, and thereby is digested. To them which hane bat weake di- who should pat 
gestion, it is good to sleepe prostrate on their bellies, or to haue ^^ hand» on 
Uieir bare hands on their stomackes: and to lye ypright on the 
backe, is to bee ytterly abhorred." p. 19. 

'This wenche lay upright, and laste slepte. Chancer. The 
JUevee Tale, 1. 4192, ed. Wright 



^46 



ANDREW BORDB ON BLEEP, BIBIKO, AND DRE8B. 



Have a flock ted 
ov»r j<mr 

featlwrbed. 



On Tiring, !»• 
member God, 
tanuhyoor 
brMcliM, put on 

yoar hoM, 
■treteh, 

[• PoL M. IIL] 
gotoftocd. 



Tracsyour 
point*, comb 
your bead, 

wash yoar hands 
andfaoe^ 

take a stroll. 



pray to God. 



or Fricatlon 



and combing tho 
head. 



or els of pure flockes or of cleane woUe, and let the 
coueiynge of it be of why te fustyan, and laye it on the 
f etherbed that you do lye on ; and in your bed lye not 
to hote nor to colde, but in a temporaunce. Olde 
auncyent Doctors of physicke sayth .yiii. howres of 
slepe in sommer, and ix. in wynter, is suffycent for 
any man: but I do thynke that slepe oughte to be 
taken as the complexion of man is. Whan you do 
ryse in the momynge^ ryse with myrth and remembre 
God. Let your hosen be brusshed within & without, 
and flauer the inusyde of them agaynst the fyre ; yse 
lynnen sockes, or lynnen hosen nexte your legges : 
whan you be out of your bedde, stretche forth your 
* legges & aimes, & your body ; cough,- and spytte, and 
than go to your stoole to make your egestyon, and 
exonerate youre selfe at all tymes, that nature wolde 
expelL For yf you do make any restiyction in kepynge 
your egestyon or your vryne, or ventosyte, it maye put 
you to dyspleasure in breadynge dyuers infynnyties. 
After you haue euacuated your bodye, & trussed your 
poyntes,^ kayme your heade oft, and so do dyuers tymes 
in the day. And wasshe your handes & wrestes, your 
face, & eyes, and your teeth, with colde water; and 
after y* you be apparayled, walke in your gardyn or 
parke, a thousande pase or two. And than great and 
noble men doth yse to here masse, A, other men that 
can not do so, but muste applye theyr busynes, doth 
serue god wit^ some prayers, surrendrynge themkes to 
hym for hys manyfolde goodnes, with askynge mercye 

1 Fricacion is one of the euacoacions, yea, or clensynges of man- 
Hnde, as all the learned affirmeth : that mankinde should rise in the 
momyng, and haue his apparell warme, stretchyng foorthe his 
handes and legges. Preparyng the bodie to the stoole, and then 
begin with a fine Combe, to kembe the heere yp and down : then 
with a course warme clothe, to chafe or rubbe the hedde, necke, 
breast, armeholes, beUie, thighes, &c., and this is good to open the 
pores. 1562 ButteMs Btdicarhey The booke of the vse of sicke men 
and medioenes, fol. Izrij. See Vaughan below, No. 2, p. 249. 



ANDREW BORDE OK BLEEP, RISING, AND DRESS. 247 

for theyr offences. And before you go to your refec- 

ti*on, moderatly exercise your body with some labour, [• foL b. ul bj 

or playeng at the tennys, or castyng a bowle, or paysyng Pi«y at tennis, 

veyghtes or plommettes of leede in your handes, or 

some other thyng, to open your poores, & to augment 

naturall heate. At dyner and supper ' vse not to drynke At meaia, 

sundry drynkes, and eate not of dyuere meates : but 

feede of .iL or .iiL dysshes at the moste. After that J^f *'*'** 

you haue dyned and supte, laboure not by and by 

after, but make a pause, syttynge or standynge vpryght 

the space of an howre or more with some pastyme : 

diynke not moch after dyner. At your supper, vse J^^'SI^'^^*** 

lyght meates of dygestyon, and refrayne from grose 

msates; go not to bed with a full nor an emptye 

stomacke. And after your supper make a pause or you 

go to bed ; and go to bed, as I sayde, with myith. 

Furthermore as concemynge your apparelL In 
wynter, next your shert vse you to weare a petycote of ![^JJ/**'*** 
scarlet : your dowb*let vse at plesure : But I do C* FoL «. iv.] 
aduertyse you to lyne your Jacket vnder this fasshyon Have a jacket 
or maner. Bye you fyne skynnes of whyte lambe & or white and bUek 
blacke lambe. And let your skyuner cut both y sortes diamond-wiM. 
of the skynnes in smale peces triangle wyse, lyke halfe 
a quarell of a glasse wyndowe. And than sewe 
togyther a* whyte pece and a blacke, lyke a whole [•Ms.aa] 
quarell of a glasse wyndowe : and so sewe vp togyther 

1 Dmnkards, bench- wislers, that will quaffe untill thei are starcke 
■taring madde like Marohe Hares : Fleming-like Sinckars ; brain- 
lesse like infemall Furies. Drinkyng, braolyng, tossyng of the 
pitcher, staryng, pissyng*, and sauyng your reuerence, beastly 
Bpuyng yntill midnight Therefore let men take hede of dronkon- 
nes to bedward, for feare of sodain death : although the Flemishe f 
nacion Tse this horrible custome in their vnnaturall watching all 
the night. Bullem, foL Izix-lxz, see also fol. xj. 

* Compare A. Borde of the ** base Doche man," in his ItUroduetum^ 
1 1 am a Flemyng, what for^all that 
Although I wyll be dronkon other whyles as a rat 

A. Borde, Introduetum. 



248 ANDREW BORDB ON SLEEP, BISINQ, AND DRESS. 

quaiell wyse as moche as wyll lyne yoxir lacket : this 
fuiie, for holsommes, is piaysed aboue sables, or any 
other fur. Your exteryall aparel yse accordyng to your 
honour. In sommer yse to were a scarlet petycote 
made of stamell or lynse Volse. In wynter and sommer 
kepe not your bed to hote, nor bynde it to strayte; 
KMpyooriiMk tepe euer your necke warme. In somer kepe your 

warm. 

w«tfK<Mtikin necke and mce from the sonne; yse to wear gloues 
made of 'goote skyn, perfumed with Amber degrece. 

[• FoL ». It. b.] And beware in standyng or lyeng on the •grounde in 
the reflection of the son7»e, but be mouable. J£ thou 

Don't stand long shalt common or talke with any man : stande not styll 

on ffraai or n ^ 

BtonM. in one place 3rf it be ypon y bare grounde, or grasse, 

or stones : but be mouable in suche places. Stande 
nor syt ypon no stone or stones : Stande nor syt longe 
barehed ynder a yawte of stone. Also beware that you 
do not lye in olde cha^^ebres which be not occupyed. 

Don't tiMp in specyally suche chambres as myse and rattes and snayles 

^ "^'"^ resorteth ynto : lye not in suche chambres, the whiche 

be depreued cleane from the sonne and open ayre ; nor 

lye in no lowe Chambre, excepte it be boorded. Be- 

Don't take ooid In yrBTQ that you take uo coldc on your feete.and legges. 

yoor teat* 

And of all weather beware that you do not lyde nor go 
in great and Impytous wyndes. (a Compendyous Regy- 
ment or a Dyetary of Jielth, made in Mountpylior: Oom- 
pyled by Andrewe Boorde, of Phy&icke Doctor, (Colo- 
phon.) Imprinted by me Robert Wyer : Dwellynge at 
the sygne of seynt JohfL Euangelyst, in S. Martyns 
Parysshe, besyde Charynge Crosse.) 



(From his NaturaM ^ Artificial Directions 
far health, 1602, p. 67-63.) 



Declare vnto mee a dayly dyet, whereby I may 
liue in health, and not trouble my selfe in Physicke. 

' (1) I will : first of all in the morning when you i. stntoh 
are about to rise vp, stretch your self strongly : for ^ 
thereby the animall heate is somewhat forced into the 
outward partes, the memorie is quickned, and the 
bodie strengthened. 

(2) Secondarily, rub and chafe your body with the t-Rnbjoomift 
pahnes of your hands, or with a course linnen cloth ; 

the breast, back, and belly, gently : but the armes, 
thighes, and legges roughly, till they seem ruddy and 
warme. 

(3) Euacuate your selfe. s. Ck> to atooL 

(4) Put on your apparell : which in the summer i. Put on tow 
time must be for the most part silke, or buffe, made of 

buckes skinne, for it resisteth yenime .and contagious 
ayres : in winter your ypper gannent must be of cotton 
or f riezeadow. 

(5) When you have apparelled your selfe han- ».Combywir 
somely, combe your head softly and easUy with an 

luorie combe: for nothing recreateth the memorie 
more. 

(6) Picke and rub your teeth : and because I 6. ciMa your 
would not haue you to bestow much cost in Tn«.1n'ng 



250 VAUOHAN*S FIFTEEN DIRECTIONS FOR HEALTH. 

(How to keep th« dentrifices for them; I will aduertise you by foure 

teeth sottod ftnd 

the biMih sweet, ^ules of importance now to keepe your teeth white and 

vncorruyt (sic), and also to haue a sweeto breath. First, 
wash well your mouth when you haue eaten your 
meat : secondly, sleepe with your mouth somewhat 
opeiL Thirdly, spit out in the morning that which is 
gathered together that night in the throate : then take 
a linnen cloth, and rub your teeth well within and 
without, to take away the fumositie of the meat and 
the yellownesse of the teeth. For it is that which 
putrifieth them and infecteth the breath. But least 
peraduenture your teeth become loose and filthy, I 

uee Vragfaw'B will shew you a water farre better then ponders, which 

Water 

shall fasten them, scoure the mouth, make sound the 
gums, and cause the flesh to growe againe, if it were fallen 
made after thia away. Take halfe a glasse-full cf vineger, and as much 
of the water of the mastick tree (if it may easily be 
gotten) of rosemarie, myrrhe, mastick, bole Armoniake, 
Dragons herbe, roche allome, of each of them an 
ounce ; of fine cinnamon halfe an ounce, and of foun- 
taine water three glassefulles ; mingle all well to- 
gether and let it boile with a small fire, adding 
to it halfe a pound of honie, and taking away the 
scumme of it ; then put in a little bengwine, and 
when it hath sodden a quarter of an houre, take it 
&om the fire, and keepe it in a cleane bottle, and wash 
your teeth therewithall as well before meate as after ; 
if you hould some of it in your mouth a little while, it 
doth much good to the head, and sweetneth the breath. 

ifa better than ^ ^^^ ^^^ water to be better worth then a thousand of 
1000 Dentrifloee.) their dentifrices. 

7. waeh. (^) ^^^ joi^r face, eyes, eares and hands, with 

fountaine water. I have knowne diuers students 
which vsed to bathe their eyes onely in well water 
twise a day, whereby they preserued their eyesight 
free from all passions and bloudsheds, and sharpened 



VAUGHAN's fifteen DIRE0TI0N8 FOR HEALTH. 251 

their memories maruaylously. You may sometimes 
bathe your eyes in rosewater, fennell water, or eyebright 
water, if you please ; but I know for certaintie, that 
you neede them not as long as you vse good fountaine 
water. Moreouer, least you by old age or some other 
meanes doe waxe dimme of sight, I will declare vnto 
you, the best and safest remedie which I knowe, and Thebe«trome<iy 

for dim sight. 

this it is : Take of the distilled waters of verueine, 
bettonie, and fennell one ounce and a halfe, then take 
one ounce of white wine, one drachme of Tntia (if you 
may easilie come by it) two drachmes of sugarcandy^ 
one drachme of Aloes Epatick, two drachmes of 
womans milke, and one scruple of Camphire: beat 
those into pouder, which are to be beaten, and infuse 
them together for foure and twenty houres space, and 
then straine them, aud so vse it when you list. 

(8) When you haue finished these, say your mom- 8. s^ ytmr 
ing prayers, and desire Grod to blesse you, to preserue 

you from all daungers, and to direct you in all your 
actions. For the feare of Gk)d (as it is written) is the 
beginning of wisedome: and without his protection 
whatsoeuer you take in hand, shall fall to mine. 
Therefore see that you be mindfull of him, and re- 
member that to that intent you were borne, to weet, to 
set foorth his glorie and most holy nam& 

(9) Groe about your businesse circumspectly, and 9. set to work, 
endeauour to banish all cares and cogitations, which are 

the onely baits of wickednesse. Defraud no man of his * 

right : for what measure you giue vnto your neighbour, Be hoiuwt. 
that measure shall you receiue. And finally, imprint 
this saying deepely in your mind : A man is but a 
steward of his owne goods ; wherof Grod one day will 
demaund an account. 

(10) £ate three meales a day vntill you come to the lo. Eat cniy thrae 
age of fourtie yeares : as, your breakefast^ dinner, and * , 
supper ; yet, that betweene breakefast and dinner there 



252 



vauohan's fiftben directions fob health. 



EatUgfatlbod 
iMfbre hMvy. 



I>rl]ik hinden 
digwfcloa. 



Um if W«r eapi. 



11. Don't woeIc 
dlncUy after 
mMlSi bat talk. 



wadi, 

and olMHi yoar 



11 Undrenby 
tlia fire in winter. 



be the space of fouie houies, and betwixt dinner and 
supper seauen houres : the breakfast must be lesse 
then dinner, and the dinner somewhat lesse then 
supper. 

In the beginning of meales, eate such meates as 
will make the belly soluble, and let grosse meats be the 
last. Content your selfe with one kind of meate, for 
diuersities hurt the body, by reason that meats are not 
all of one-qualitie: Some are easily digested, others 
againe are heauy, and will lie a long time vpon the 
stomack: also, the eating of sundrie sorts of meat 
require often pottes of drinke, which hinder concoctign ; 
like as we see often putting of water into the meat- 
potte to hinder it from seething. Our stomack is our 
bodies kitchin, which being distempered, how can we 
line in temperate order : drinke not aboue foure times, 
and that moderately, at each meale : least the belly- 
God hale you at length captiue into his prison house of 
gurmandise, where you shall be afflicted with as many 
diseases as you haue deuoured dishes of sundry sorts. 
The cups whereof you drinke, should be of siluer, or 
siluer and gilt. 

(11) Labour not either your mind or body presently 
after meales : rather sit a while and discourse of some 
pleasant matters : when you haue ended your confabu- 
lations, wash your face and mouth with cold waters, 
then go to your chamber, and make cleane your teeth 
with your tooth-picker, which should be either of 
iuorie, silver, or gold. Watch not too long after supper, 
but depart within two hours to bed. But if necessitie 
compell you to watch longer then ordinary, then be 
sure to augment your sleepe the next morning ; that you 
may recompence nature, which otherwise through your 
watching would not a little be impaired. 

(12) Put of your clothes in winter by the fire side : 
and cause your bed to bee heated with a wanning panne : 



VAUOHAN'u fifteen DIRBCTI0N8 FOB HEALTH. 253 

vnless your pretence bee to harden your members, and 
to apply your selfe vnto militaiie discipline. This 
outward heating doth wonderfully comfort the inward 
heaty it helpeth concoction, and consumeth moisture. 

(13) Eemember before you rest, to chew down two is.B^Ambed, 
or three drachmes of mastiek : for it will preserue your "^ 
body from bad humours. 

(14) Pray feruently to Grod, before you sleepe, to iiPnjfcoGod. 
inspire you with his grace, to defend you from all 

perils and subtelties of wicked fiends, and to prosper 
you in all your affaires : and then lay aside your cares 
and businesse, as well publicke as priuate: for that 
night, in so doing, you shall slope more quietly. Make 
water at least once, and cast it out : but in the morn- 
ing make water in an yrinal : that by looking on it, Lookatyonr 
you may ghesse some what of the state of your body, uiima. 
Sleep first on your right side with your mouth open, 
and let your night cappe haue a hole in the top, through Haw « i»ie in 
which the vapour may goe out 

(15) In the morning remember your affayres, and if !*• Agminrt 

rhmmia, est 

you be troubled with rheumes, as soone as you haue white pq>p«& 
risen, yse diatrion piperion, or eate white pepper now 
and then, and you shall be holpen. 



FINIS. 



\ 



^jt gjct for rfrerj Jag. 

(fboh 

Sit Mn f anitj)tim'8 ' St\tsilt at Sxltm/ 

2nd part. 

Cb^ ^RAerbHtion of JtoU^, or n $s<t for i^t jpeoU^&U 

pan, 1624, p. 358.) 

. . first I will begin with the dyet for every day. 
In the beginning when you arise from the bed, 
extend forth all your members, for by this meanes the 
aniinal spirits are drawne to the outward members, 
the *braino is made subtill, & the body strengthened. 
Then rub the whole body somewhat with the palmes, 
the brest, back and belly gently, but the armes and legs 
with the hands, either with warm linnen : next, the 
head is to be scrubbed from the forepart to the hinder- 
part very lightly. After you are risen, I will that you 
defend with all care and diligence your head, necke, 
and feet, from all cold in the morning ; for there is no 
doubt, but in the morning and euening the cold doth 
offend more, then it doth about noone tide, by reason 

diMi, wuhing in of the weakucs of the Sim-beames. Put on your clothes 
neat and cleane : in the Summer season, first wash with 
cle^ane pure water, before described ; but in the Winter 

warming yooneif season sit somewhat by the fire, not made with turfe or 
stinking coale, but with oake or other wood that 
bumeth cleare, for our bodies are somewhat affected 
with our clothes, and as strength is increased by the 



Strrtch yoor 
Umbt, 

[•Pi««S6.] 
mb your body 



and head; 



protect yoanelf 
fromoold; 



SammWy 



in Winter. 



SIR JN. HARINGTON'S DYET FOR EVERT DAT. 255 

vse of meat and drinke, and our life defended and 
presenied ; and so our garments doe conserue tlie heat 
of our bodies, and doe driue away colds : so that as 
diet and apparel may seeme alike, so in either of them 
a like diligence is to be preferred. 

In the Summer-time I chiefly commend garments in Sammw 
of Harts-skinnes, and Calues-skins, for the Hart is a w«r deer's and 

calves' skini^ 

creature of long life, and resisteth poysoh and Serpents ; 

therefore I my selfe vse garments of the Hke sort for 

the winter season, also neuerthelesse lined with good 

linnen. Next I doe iudge it not to bee much amisse 

to vse garments of Silke or Bombace, or of purple : 

also of Martyn or WoUe-skinnea, or made of Fox in winter, woif 

skinnes, I suppose to be good for the winter ; notwith- " "* 

standing in the time of Pestilence, apparell of Silke and 

skinnes is condemned, because it doth easily admit and 

receiue the contagious ayre, and doth retain it long. 

After the body is well clothed, kembe your head wel comb your head 

40 timee, 

with an luory comb, from the forehead to the backe- 

part, drawing the comb some forty times at the least ; 

then wash all the instruments of the sences, as the eies, wash foot tu», • 

the ears, the nostrils, the mouth, the tongue, the teeth, 

and all the face with cold water ; and the eyes are not 

only to be washed, but being open plainly, immeig'd : 

and the gumme and foulnes of the eie-lids that do there oUenyoar 

stick, to remoue; somtimes also to besprinkle the ^ ' 

water with Rose-water or Fenel-water, also rubb the mbyoarneok 

neck well with *a linnen napking somewhat course, for c* page ss.] 

these things doe confirme the whole body ; it maketh 

the mind more cheerefall, and conserueth the sight 

In this place it pleaseth me to adloyne some Dentifrices 

or clensers of teeth, waters not only to make the teetU 

white, but also to conserue them, with some medicines 

also to conserue the sight .... 



(fbok 

2m> PART, 



Oniiilag^ 
'•mpty yoar 
bladder and 
belly, noM tad 
lunge. 



Cleeneeyoor 
whole body. 



Say yoar Prayert. 



Walk gently. 



gotoatool. 
[•Pagett.] 



Work in the 
forenoon. 



f^t f^UBttbv&on fif Jtalt^, or h ^^tt fat l^e ]ptaU(£tU 

Phw, 1624, p. 358.) 

Also to prosecute our former purpose, when you 
arise in the morning, to auoyd all superfluities, as well 
by vrine as by the belly, which doe at the least euery 
day. Auoid also &om the nostrils and the lungs aU 
filthy matter, as wel by densing, as by spittle, and 
dense the face, head, and whole body ; & loue you to 
be cleane and wel apparelled, for from our cradles let 
vs abhor vncleannes, which neither nature or reason 
can endure. When you haue done these things, re- 
member to powre foorth your prayers vnto God with a 
cleare voice, that the day may be happy and prosperous 
vnto you, that God may direct your actions to the 
glory of his name, the profit of your country, & the 
conseruation of your bodies. Then walke ye gently, 
and what excrements soeuer do slip down to the in- 
feriour parts, being excited by *naturall heate, the 
excretion thereof shalL the better succeed. 

As for your businesses, whether they be publike or 
priuate, let them be done with a certaine honesty; then 
afterwards let your hunting ioumeyes bee performed ; 
apply your selues to studie and serious businesse the 



SIB JN. HABBINOTON ON DIET AND SLEEP. 257 

houres of the fore-noone, and so likewise in the after- 
noone, till twoor three houres before supper : alwaies in 
your hands vse eyther Corall or yellow Amber, or a Always wear a 

precious Btooe 

Chalcedoniuniy or a sweet Pommander, or some like 
precious stone to be wome in a ring vpon the Httle 
finger of the lefb hand : haue in your rings eyther ^ la^riagt 
Smaragd, a Saphire, or a Draconites, which you shall 
beare for an ornament : for in stones, as also in hearbes, 
there is great efficacie and vertue, but they are not 
altogether perceived by vs: hold sometime in your hoid»cryrt«i 

In yoar month ; 

mouth eyther a Hyacinth, or a Crystall, or a Granat, 
or pure Gold, or Siluer, or else sometimes pure Sugar- 
candy. For Aristotle doth affirme, and so doth Albertus 
Magnus, that a Smaragd wome about the necke, is 
good against the Fallingnsicknes : for surely the vertue 
of an hearbe is great, but much more the vertue of a ftrthevirtaoof 

praoioos fltones Is 

precious *8tone, which is very likely that they are [•psgeis.] 
endued with occult and hidden vertues. 

Feede onely twice a day, when yee are at mans Eat only twice » 
age : neuerthelesse to those that are subiect to choUer, 
it is lawf ull to feede often : beginne alwayes your 
dinner and supper with the more Uqidd meates, some- 
times with drinkes. In the time betweene dinner and Don't drink 

between dinner 

supper, abstain altogether from cups, vnlesse necessitie and supper, 
or custome doe require the same : notwithstanding the 
same custome being so vitious, must be by little and 
little changed. 

I would not that you should obserue a certaine 
houre, either for dinners or suppers, as I haue sufficiently Don't have one 

fixed hour 

told you before, lest that daily custome should be for your: 



altered into nature : and after this intermission of 
this custome of nature, hurt may follow ; for custome 
doth imitate nature, and that which is accustomable, 
the very same thing is now become natural!. 

Take your meate in the hotte time of Summer in 
cold places, but in the Winter let there bee a bright in winter eat in 

17 



«n'•'•^ »*,^,^,^, .^ ^ 



'""f^ '="«•'">"-, ..,.,..,„ 

^-^^«<^^u..« ;';""•■ • 

-: -^ ^-* ^.: . w .;;;■;;;' 

X ~,u. T,, *^'**^' 

*■ * »• ^ 

* . «• >*« • 



. »M • , 



k*tt 



&■ < 



oar tarea 
ar cioUies, 



1 take them 
again in the 
•imlng. 



258 



SIB JN. HABRINOTON ON DIET AKD BLEEP. 



hot well-alred 
[•PiW«41J 



FMtfor aday 
nowandfcheii. 



Eat mora at 
■upper than 
dinner. 



After meals, wash 
your fiuMb and 
dean your teeth. 



e hat and walk 
Boberly. 

Don*t elt up 
Ute. 

[•Page 45.] 



Before bed, 

mb jnar body 
gently. 



Undress by a Are 
in Winter, 



fire, and take it in hotte places, your parlors or Chambers 
being first purged and ajred witb suffumigations, whicb. 
I would not haue you to *enter before the suffumigatlon 
bee plainely extinct, lest you draw the fume by reason 
of the odour. 

And seeing one and the same order of diet doth not 
promiscuously agree with all men, take your meate in 
order, as ia before said, and sometimes also intermit the 
Yse of meats for a whole day together, because through 
hunger, the faults of the stomacke which haue beene 
taken eyther by much drinking or surfetting, or by any 
other meanes, may be depeUed and remoued. 

By this meanes also your bodies shall be better 
accustomed to endure and suffer hunger and fasting, 
eyther in ioumeyes or wars. Let your suppers bee 
more larger then your dinners, vnlesse nightly diseases 
or some distilations doe afflict you. 

After meat taken, neither labour in body nor mind 
must be vsed, and wash the face and mouth with cold 
water, dense the teeth either with luory, or a Harts 
home, or some picker of pure siluer or gold. 

After your banquets, passe an houre or two in 
pleasant talkes, or walke yee very gently and soberly, 
neither yse much watchings long in the night, but the 
space of two howres goe to your bed ; but if honest 
* businesse doe require you to watch, then sleepe after- 
wards so much the longer, that your sleepe may well 
recompence your former watchings. Before that you 
go to your bed, gently smooth down your head, armes, 
and shoulders, the back and all the body, with a gentle 
and soft rubbing, vnlesse you meane to do it in the 
morning to mooue distribution, whose time is best to be 
done in the morning. 

In the Winter, sitting by the fire, put off your gar- 
ments, and dry your feet by the fire, neuerthelesse 
auoyd the heat and the smoke, because it is very hurt- 
full both to the lungs, and the eyes. 



SIR JN. HARRINGTON ON DIET AND SLEEP. 259 

In the Winter time, waime well your garments at andwamyorar 

gAnnonts well* 

the fire, and warm the linings of the same, for it helpeth 
concoction, and remoueth all humidity and moysture. 
But my father did not allow of this cnstome, warning 
men of strength, and those that are borne for the 
Common-wealth, not to accustom themselves to such 
kind of sofbnesse, which doe weaken our bodies. Also 
when you put off your garments to go to bed, then put Put off your earos 

with your dotUoSi 

away all your cogitations, & lay them aside, whether 

they be publike or priuate, for when all your *member8 C* p«8« ^-3 

be free from all cares, you shall then sleep the quieter, 

concoction and the other naturall actions shall best be 

performed. 

But in the morning when you rise againe, resume ud take them 
to your selues your former dayes thoughts and cares ; coming. ° 
for this precept my Father had often in his mouth, 
theifore I deliuer it vnto you as the more worthy of 
your obseruatioxt 



17 • 





tt)u{ 4 Mm^rn 



%\t 




jtxnmt^ 



[that is to say. 



The boke of Seruyce & Keruynge and Sewynge 

& all Maner of Oifyce in his kynde 

vnto a Prynce or ony other Estate, 

& all the Feestes in the yere.] 



Enprynted by Wynkyn de Worde at London in 

Flete Strete at the sygne of the Sonne. The 

yere of our Lorde God. M.CCCC.xiij. 

[and now reprinted, 

1867.] 





ah, 4 3^mm 



C|t ^nh flf ^enipge. 



[FoL A 1.] 



T Here begynneth the boke of keruynge and [Fol a i *.] 
sewynge / and all the feestes in the yere, for the seruyce lH^and Jnan^ 
of a prynce or ony other estate, as ye shall fynde eche ^'mIk^^^ 
oflfyce, the seruyce accordynge, in this boke folowynge. **'***'«^- 



1 xeruiee 


t 01 a XLeruer. 


TeranofftOarrer 


IjReke that dere 

JJ lesche y biawne 


tyere that egge 




chyne that samon 


Slice bimwii. 


rere that goose 


strynge that lampraye 




lyft that swanne 


splatte that pyke 


■ptot ft pik«» 


sauce that capon 


sauce that playce 




spoyle that henne 


sauce that tenche 


qwUfthen, 


frusshe that chekyn 


splaye that breme 




ynbrace that malarde 


syde that haddocke 


unfanceAinalUrd, 


vnlace that cony 


tuske that barbell 




dysmembre that heron 


culpon that troute 




dysplaye that crane 


fynne that cheuen 


fin ft chub. 


dysfygure that pecocke 


transsene that ele 




vnioynt that bytture 


traunche that sturgyon 




Tntache that curlewe 


vndertraunche y purpos 


nnUche ft eorlcWp 


alaye that fesande 


tayme that crabbe 




wynge that partryche 


barbe that lopster 


barbftloteter. 


wynge that quayle 






mynce that plouer 


% Here hendeth the 




thye that pegyon 


goodly termes. 




border that pasty 




border ft pMt7, 


thye that wodcocke 


% Here begynneth 




thye all maner of small byrdes Butler and 


thiidi null Midi. 


tymbre that fyre 


Panter. 





266 



THB BUTLER AND PANTBR8 DUTIES. 



The Bailor has 8 
knlTis: 



- [iFo1.aU.] 
1. ft iqiurer, 
1 ft ohipper, 
8. ft anooUiflr. 



Tremcheir-breftd 
mnsl be 4 &mj» 
old: 

«he Salt-Flaneror 
iToiy; 



teble cloths kept 
In ft chest, or 
hang on ft peich. 



To broach ft Pipe, 
hftTeS angers, 



Amne]s,and 
tabes, and irferce 
the Pipe 4 inches 
from the bottcnn. 



Always have 
ready frnits 
QS Orlg. seasons] 



and hard cheese. 



Beware of cow 



Hard cheese is 
aperient, and 



keeps off poison. 
Milk and Junket 
dose the Haw. 



pFoLAiLfc.] 



THou slialte be Butler and Panter all the fyrst yere / 
and ye muste haue tbie pantry knyues / one 
knyfe to square trenchoure loues / an other to be a 
1 chyppere / the thyrde shall be sharpe to make smothe 
treTichoures / than chyppe yoiu* soueraynes brede hote, 
and aU other brede let it be a daye olde / housholde 
brede thre dayes olde / trenchour brede foure dayes 
olde / than loke your salte be whyte and drye / the 
planer made of luory, two inches brode & thre inches 
longe / & loke that youre salte seller lydde touche not 
the salte / than loke your table clothes, toweUes, and 
napkyns, be fayre folden in a cheste or hanged vpon a 
perche / than loke your table knyues be-fayre pullysshed, 
& your spones clene / than loke ye haue two tarryours, 
a more & a lesse, & wyne canneUes of boxe made 
accordynge / a sharpe gymlot & faucettes. And whan 
ye sette a pype on broche, do thus / set it foure fynger 
brede aboue y nether^chyme vpwardes aslaunte / and 
than shall y lyes neuer a-iyse. Also loke ye haue in 
all seasons^ butter, chese, apples, peres, nottes, plommes, 
grapes, dates, fygges & raysyns, compost, grene gynger 
and chardequynce. Seme fastynge butter, plommes, 
damesons, cheryes, and grapes, after mete, peres, nottes, 
strawberyes, hurtelberyes, & hard chese. Also bran- 
drels or pepyns with carawey in confetes. After 
souper, rost apples & peres, with blaunche poudre, & 
harde chese / be ware of cowe 'creme, & of good straw- 
beryes, hurtelberyes, louncat, for these wyll make your 
souerayne seke but he ete harde chese / harde chese 
hath these operacyons / it wyll kepe y stomacke 
open / butter is holsome fyrst & last, for it wyll do awaye 
all poysons / mylke, creme, & louncat, they wyll close 
the mawe, & so dooth a posset / therfore ete harde 
chese, & diynke romney modon / beware of grene 
sallettes & rawe fruytes, for they wyll make your 
sourayne seke / therfore set no mo-' che by suche metes 



TH£ BOKJS OF KBRUYNGB : WYNKYN BE WORDB. 267 

as wyll Bot your tethe on edge ; therfoie ete an almonde For (bod thatieu 
& harde chese / but ete non mocke obese witbout o^eataa" 
romney modon. Also yf dyueis diynkes, yf tbeyr ^iSmI *° 
fumosytees baue dyspleased your soueiayne, let bym ete 
a lawe apple, and y fumosytees wyU. cease : mesure is a raw apple wni 

enn tndigwtiou. 

a mery mene & it ho well vsed / abstynence is to be 

praysed wban god therwitb is pleased. Also take good see frofr night 

that jooT wUiw 

bede of your wynes euery nygbt witb a candell, botbe don't bou over or 

leak 

rede wyne and swete wyne, & loke tbey reboyle nor 
leke not / & wassbe y pype bedes euery nygbt wtt/t 
colde water / & loke ye baue a cbyncbynge yron, addes, 
and lynen clotbes, yf nede be / & yf tbefy] reboyle, ye youti know their 

feimentlng hj 

sball knowe by tbe byssynge / tberfore kepe an empty their hiMing. 
pype witb y lyes of coloured rose, & drawe tbe 
reboyled wyne to y lyes, & it sbal belpe it Also yf 
your swete W3rne pale, drawe it in to a romney vessell 
for lessynge. 

■ 

If Here folowetb tbe names of wynes. NamMnrwuu§, 

% Reed wyne / wbyte wyne / clared wyne / osey / 
capryke / campolet / renyssbe wyne / maluesey / bas- Campoiet, 
tarde / tyer, romney / muscadell / clarrey / raspys / 
yemage / remage wyne cut / pymente and ypocras. 

For to make ypocras. to tMt$ Fpeenu. 

% Take gynger / peper / graynes / canell / synamon / 
Buger and tomsole / tban loke ye baue fyue or syxe Take tpioea; pat « 

• A 11 haga on a perch, 

bagges for your ypocras to renne in, & a percbe tbat 

your renners may ren on / tban muste ye baue .yL e pewter baaina 

peautre basyns to stande vnder your bagges / tban loke 

your spyce be redy / & your gynger well pared or it be gingerand 

dnnaniOD* 

beten ' to poudre / tban loke your stalkes of synamon be [i fol a ul] 
well coloured; Ss swete canell is not so gentyU in (ortheqnautieaor 
operacyon ; synamon is bote and drye / graynes of para- 
dico* ben bote and moyste / gynger / graynes / longe p»ic;o/bre]^ 
peper / and suger, ben bote and moyst / synamon / 



268 



FOR TO MAKE TPOOBA8, AND LATE THE CLOTH. 



Poand Aaeh sploe 
winnAely.pai'em 
In blAdden, and 

hang 'am in your 



add a gallon of 
rod wine to 'em. 



etir it well, ran 
it through two 
bagt, 



taste it. 



it through 9 
nmnere, and put 
it In a cloee Teeael. 

Keep the dregs for 
cooking. 

Hare yonr Com- 
poet clean, and 
yoar ale 6 daya 
old, 



but not dead. 
TolaptheCMh. 



Put on a eoMeJk, 
then a second 
cloth. 

the fold on the 
outer edge; a 
third, the fold on 
tiie inner edge. 
[I Fol. A iU. b.l 

CoTcr your cup- 
board, 



put a towel round 
your neck, one 
side lying on your 
left arm; 

on that, 7 loaves of 
eating bread and 
4 trencher loares. 
In your left hand 
a saltcellar. 



canell, & rede wyne, ben hote and drye / tomsole is 

holBome / for reed wyne colourynge. Now knowe ye the 

proporcyons of your ypocras / than bete your poudres 

eche by themselfe, & put them in bladders, & hange 

your bagges sure, that no bage touche other / but let 

eche basyn touche other ; let the fyrste basyn be of a 

galon, and eche of the other of a poteU / than put in 

your basyn a galon of reed wyne, put thereto your 

poudres, and styre them well / than put them in to the 

fyrste bagge, and let it renne / than put them in to the 

seconde bagge / than take a pece in your hande, and 

assaye yf it be stronge of gynger / and alaye it with 

synamon / and it be 8tro[n]ge of synamon / alaye it 

with suger / and loke ye lette it renne thrughe syze 

renners / & your ypocras shaU be the fyner / than 

put your ypocras in to a close yessell, and kepe 

the receyte / for it wyU serue for sewes / than serue 

your souerayne with wafers and ypocras. Also loke 

your composte be fayre and clene / and your ale fyue 

dayes olde or men drynke it / thaw kepe your hous of 

offyce clene, & be curtoys of answere to eche persone, 

and loke ye gyue no persone noo dowled drynke / for it 

wyll breke y scabbe. And whan ye laye the clothe, 

wype y horde clene with a cloute / than laye a doth, 

a couche, it is called, take your felawe that one ende, & 

holde you that other ende, than drawe the clothe 

straught, the bought on y vtter edge / take the ytter 

parte, & hange it euen / than take the thyrde clothe, 

and lay y bought on the inner ^ edge / and laye estat 

with the vpper parte halfe a fote brode / than couer thy 

cupborde and thyn ewery with the towell of dyaper / 

than take thy towell about thy necke, and laye that one 

syde of y towell vpon thy lefte arme / and there-on 

laye your soueraynes napkyn / and laye on thyn arme 

seuen loues of brede, with thre or foure trenchour loues, 

with the ende of y towell in the lefte hande, as the 



THE BOKE OF KERUTNGB : WYNKTN Dfi WORDS. 2G9 

maner is / than take thy salte seller in thy lefte hande, in yoor right the 
and take the ende of y towell in your lyffht hande to b«^ the saitoeiiAr . 

onyourlord'a 

here in spones and knynes / than set your salt on the right, and 
lyght syde where your souerayne shall sytte, and on y leftont. 
lefte syde the salte set your trenchouis / than laye your 
knyues, & set your brede, one lofe by an other / your Lay kniTes. bread, 
spones, and your napkyns fayre f olden besyde your *^**®®"'"*'^ 
brede / than couer your brede and trenchoures, spones "** '^^ *•" "'• 
and knyues / A si euery ende of y table set a salte 
seller with two treachour ' loues / and yf ye wyll wrappe ci »fc .- a/br n] 
your soueraynes brede stately, ye muste square and SiS^iSI*^ 
proporcyon your brede, and se that no lofe be more SjSJitheioaTea: 
than an other / and than shall ye make your wrapper 
man[er]ly / than take a towell of reynes of two yerdes takeaReynea 
and an halfe, and take the towell by y endes double, Si*\^^JJ^Jid,. 
and laye it on the table / than take the ende of y n*/*"*?*?* 

J I J table, pinch up a 

bought a handfull in your hande, and wrappe it harde, Jjjdft>iof one 
and laye the ende so wrapped bytwene two toweUes; «nd lay it between 
vpon that ende so wrapped, lay your brede, botom to J^JI^JSJr"'* 
botom, syxe or seuen loues / than set your brede £0010!****°°**** 
manerly in fourme / and whan your soueraynes table is Put nit, cape, fte., 
thus arayed, couer all other hordes with salte, tren- tauea. 
choures, & cuppes. Also so' thyn eweiy be arayed with see that your ' 
basyns A ewers, & water hote & colde / and se* ye haue roppued.^'*"'*'^ 
napkyns, cuppes, & spones / & se your pottes for Sp/deaa?*^*" 
wyne 'and ale be made clene, and to y sumape make TomrmiftuL ' 
ye curtesy with a clothe vnder a fayre double napry / £j^2oth under 
than take be towelles ende nexte you/& the vtterende •donwe towel, 

'^ *' ' holdSenda 

of the clothe on the vtter syde of the table, & holde together, 
these thre endes atones, & folde them atones, that a J^^^J^J pi^ 
plyte passe not a fote brode / than laye it euen there it »ndiayit«moouu 
sholde lye. And after mete wasshe with that that is After waaung, 
at y lyghte ende of the table / ye muste guyde it 
out, and the marshaU must conuey it / and loke the Manhai mmt 

^ *' ' carry the romape 

on eche clothe the ryght syde be outwarde, & drawe <«t. 
it streyght / than must ye reyse the vpper parte 



270 



HOW TO WAIT AT TADLB. 8EWTNQB OF FLESSHE. 



IiMTe out half ft 

jurdtoiDAke 

asUte. 

When your lord 
hu washed, 
remoTothe 
Bnmape. 



WhenhelaMftted. 
t> /or li) 



■alnte him, im- 
eoTor Toor bread. 



kneel on yoor 
knee till 8 loaTOi 
are aerred oat (!) 



ProrldAaainany 
cmia aa diahea. 



of J towell, & laye it wtt^-out ony gronynge / and at 
euery ende of y towell ye must conuey halfe a yerde 
that y sewer may make estate reuerently, and let it 

e 

be. And whan your soaerayne hath wasshen, drawe y 
sumape euen / than here the sumape to the myddes of 
the horde & take it vp befote your soaerayne, & here it 
in to y ewery agayne. And whan your souerayne it' 
set, loke your towell be aboute your necke / than make 
your souerayne curtesy / than vncouer your brede & set 
it by the salte & laye your napkyn, knyf e, & spone, afore 
hym / than knele on your knee tyll the puipayne passe 
eyght loues / & loke ye set at y endes of y table foure 
loues at a messe / and se that eueiy persone haue 
napkyn and spone / & wayte well to y sewer how many 
dysshes be couered; y so many cuppes couer ye / than 
serue ye forth the table manerly y euery man may 
' speke your curtesy. 



Bewvnueef 
FUsthe, 



% Here endeth of the Butler and Panter, yoman of 
the seller and ewery. And here foloweth sewynge of 
flesshe. 



rFoL'4 4fr.1 
The Sever or 
anangerordlahes 



what dishes and 
fimita are pre- 
pared daily for 
dinner; and he 
most have people 
ready to earnr up 
the diahea. 



P/brbe] 



rpHe sewer muste sewe, & from the borde conuey all 
J- maner of potages, metes, & sauces / & euery daye 
comon with the coke, and vnderstaTrde & wyte how 
many dysshes shall be, and speke with the panter and 
offycers of y spycery for fruytes that shall be ete» 
fastynge. Than goo to the borde of sewynge, and se ye 
haue offycers redy to conuey, & seruauntes for to here, 
your dysshes. Also yf marshall, squyers, and ser- 
uauntes of armes, bo* there, than serue forth your souer- 
ayne withouten blame. 



The IhucetHom 

1. Brawn, *o. 
t. Pheasant. Ao. 



IT Seruyce. 

IT Fyrste sette ye forthe mustarde and brawne, 
potage, befe, motton stewed. Fesande / swanne / 



THE BO KB OP KEBUTNQE : WYNKYN DB WORDS. 271 

capon / pygge, yenyson bake / custarde / and leche SLMaatiHtten, 
lombarde. Fruyter vaunte, with a subtylte, two pot- i For • standard, 
ages, blauwche manger, and gelly. For standarde, 
venyson roste, kydde, fawhe & cony / bustarde, storke, 
ciane, pecocke with his tayle, heroTisewe, bytture, wood- •p^'oock with hia 
cocke, partryche, plouer, rabettes, grete byrdes, larkes / 
doucettes, paynpuflFe, whyte leche, ambre / gelly, creme *• Doucettw, 
of almondes, curlewe, brewe, snytes, quayle, sparowes, B"^. snip^ 
martynet, perche in gelly / petyperuys', quynces bake / Pe*n)eruy»and 
leche dewgarde, frayter fayge, blandrelles or pepyns F*jg©, 
with carawaye in confettes, wafers and ypocras, they be o«*wi»j^ *«- 
a-greable. ^ow this f eest is done, voyde ye the table. <^««r the table. 



IT Here endeth the sewynge of flesshe. And b^yn- JS3!?.^ ^ 
neth the keruynge of flesshe. 

THe keruer must knowe the keruynge and the fayre 
haTullynge of a knyf e, and how ye shall seche eJ 
maner of fowle / your knyfe muste be fayre and ' your yJ? Sad. mLt 
ha^ides muste be clene ; & passe not two fyngers & a Sijtwo flngers 
thombe vpon your knyfe. In y myddes of your hande 2SSridbe?Bt<m 
set the halfe sure, vnlassynge y mynsynge wich* two '^^J^thj 
fyngers & a thombe ; keruynge of brede, layenge, & 
Toydynge of crommes, with two fyngers and a thombe / 
loke ye haue y cure / set neuer on fysshe / flesshe / <'®'**"^*«^ 
beest / ne fowle, more than two fyngers and a thombe/ ""'^^^ 
than take your lofe in your lefte hande, & holde your 
knyfe surely ; enbrewe not the table clothe / but wype wipe your i^e 
vpon your napkyn / than take your trenchouer lofe in 
your lefte hande, and with the edge of your table knyfe 
take vp your trenchours as nye the poynt as ye may / 
than laye foure trenchours to your soferayne, one by an ^* ^'^J^*" 
other / and laye theron other foure trenchours or elles JJJJJl,****" 
twayne / than take a lofe in your lyfte hande, & pare «<* *>>• "pp" 
y lofe rouTide aboute / than cut the ouer cruste to loftf^ 
your souerayne, and cut the nether cruste, & voyde 



272 



KBRUTNGE OF FLESBHB. 



the paiynge, & touche the lofe no more after it is so 

sQTued / than dense the table that the sewer may serae 

[' '^^^ "^. youre souerayne. Also ye muste knowe the fumosytces * 

It Indigestible. of fysshe, flesshe, and foiiles, & all maner of sauces 

accordynge to theyr appetytes / these ben the fiimosytes / 
Mnrty.fktthiogi. salte, soore, resty, fatte^ fryed, senewes, skynnes, hony, 
fMthcrn, heads, croupes, yonge feders, heddes, pygous' bones, all maner 
j^ ^* " ° of legges of bestees & f owles the vtter syde ; for these 

ben fumosytees ; laye them neuer to your souerayne. 



KtnuifHaecf 



HowtocMTe 
Bnwn, 



Yenison. 



fsFol. a6&.] 
<cut it in 12 bito 
ftnd slice it into 
the ftitmity.) 



BtoekdoTes, 



(mlnoe the wlnsa 
into the syrap J 



Oooee, Teal, Ac, 
(take off the legs 
and wings,) 



Capon. 

(minoe the wing 
with wine or ale,) 



PloTer, Lapwing, 



T[ Seruyce. 

% Take your knyfe in your hande, and cut brawne 
in y dysshe as it lyeth, & laye it on your soueraynes 
trenchour, & se there be mustarde. Yenyson with 
fourmenty is good for your souerayne : touche not the 
yenyson with your hande, but with your knyfe cut it 
.xii. draugh'tes with the edge of your knyfe, and cut it 
out in to y fourmenty / doo in the same wyse with 
pesen Ss bacon, befe chyne and motton / pare the befe, 
cut the mottow / & laye to your souerayne / beware of 
fumosytees / salte, senewe, fatte, resty & rawe. In 
syrupe, fesande, partryche, stockdoue, & chekyns / in the 
lefte hande take them by the pynyoTi, & with the fore- 
parte of your knyfe lyfte vp your wynges / than mynce 
it in to the syrupe / beware of skynne rawe & senowe. 
Goos, tele,malarde, & swanne, reyse^ the legges, than the 
wynges / laye the body in y myddes or in a nother 
plater / the wynges in the myddes & the legges ; after 
laye the brawne bytwene the legges / & the wynges in 
the plater. Capon or henne of grece, lyfte the legges, 
than the wynges, & caste on wyne or ale, than mynce 
the wynge & giue your souerayne. Fesande, partryche, 
plouer or lapwynge, reyse y wynges, & after the legges. 

^ The top of the « is broken off, making the letter look like an 
/ rubbed at the top. 



THE BOKB OF KERUYNOB : WYNKYN DB WORDE. 273 

woodcocke, bytture, egryt, snyte, curlewe & heronsewe, Bittem. Egret. 

vnlace them, breke of the pynyons, necke & becke / 

than reyse the legges, & let the fete be on styll, than 

the wynges. A ciane, reyse the wynges fyrst, & beware How to carr© » 

of the trompe in his brest. Pecocke, storke, bustarde tnunp in us 

& shouyllarde, vnlace them as a crane, and let y fete shoveier, 

be on stylL Quayle, sparow, larke, martynet, pegyon, Qaau, Martins, 

swalowe, & thrusshe, y legges fyrst, than y wynges. SwaUov, 

Fawne, kyde, and lambe, laye the kydney to your Fawn. Kid. 

sonerayne, than lyfe yp the sholder & gyae your souer- 

ayne a rybbe. Yenyson roste, cat it in the dysshe, & BoMt vmiaon, 

laye it to yonr souerayne. A cony, lay hym on the Cony, 

backe, cut away the ventes bytwene the hynder legges, 

breke the canell bone, than reyse the sydes, than lay 0»y Wm on his 

P * '^ e belly with hlB two 

the cony on y wombe, on eche syde the chyne y two cutoiraides. on 

sydes departed from the chyne, than laye the bulke, 

chyne, & sydes, in y dysshe. * Also ye must mynce [•foLab.] 

Cot 4 stripe to 

fouie losses to one morcell of mete, that your soverayne eachwtof me*t, 

for yonr lord to 

may take it in the sauce. All bake metes that ben pick it up i^. 

Open hot Meat- 

hote, open them a-boue the coffyn : & all that ben colde, Piee at the top: 

\ . . 1 cold in the middle. 

ope?e theym m the mydwaye. Custarde, cheke them CutcuBtanisiii 

■L ii i 11 A -TN Inchblocka. 

incne square that your souerayne may ete therof. Dou- Donoettee, pare 
cettes, pare awaye the sydes & the bottom : beware of bottom, 
fomosytes. Fruy ter vaunte, fruyter say, be good ; better Frftten hot are 
is fruyter pouche ; apple fruyters ben good bote / and all 
colde fruters, touche not. Tansey is good / bote wortes, ~'* ***• 

' J c> I > TMieey iB good. 

or grueU of befe or of motton is good. Gelly, mortrus, jeiiy. Blanche 
creme almondes, blauTzche manger, lussell, and charlet^ tc. are'iood. and 
cabage, and nombles of a dere, ben good / & all other no other potagea. 
potage beware of 

If Here endeth y keruynge of flesshe. And smtea/orau 

'• J J O matter q^ Fvu?U9, 

begynnoth sauces for all maner of fowles. 

"IIITJstarde is good with brawne, befe, chyne, bacon, Mn«tard for beef: 

Wl Yeijoioefor 

•^^*- A motton. Vergius is good to boy led chekyns boii«idchicken«; 

° ° ^ '^ Oawdronafor 

and capon / swanne with cawdrons / rybbes of swans: 

18 



274 



SAUCES FOB FOWLES. FEESTES AND SEBUYOE. 



0«r]iok« Ac. for 
beef. 

Ginger for lunb ; 
Qamelyno for 
heroDsewe, kc, ; 
Bali, Sugar and 
Water of Tiune for 
brew, &c. 



Wbite salt for 
lapwings, &o. 
Oinnamon and 
salt for thnuhea* 
Ac 



befe with garlycke, mustarrle, peper, vergyua ; gynger 
sauce to lambe, pyggo, & fawne / mustarde & suger to 
fesande, partryche, and conye / sauce gamelyne to 
herowsewe, egryt, plouer, & crane / to brewe, curlewe, 
salte, suger, & water of tame / to bustarde, shouyllarde, 
& bytture, sauce gamelyne: woodcocke, lapwynge, 
larke, quayle, mertynet, venyson, and snyte, with whjrte 
salte / sparowes & throstelles with salte & synamon / 
thus with all metes, sauce shall haue the operacyons. 

% Here endeth the sauces for all maner of fowlcs 
and metes. 



IFol. A6b.] 
The Dinner 
CourMsfivm 
Hatter to 
fVhitaundajf. 
From Easter to 
Pentecost, 
set bread, 
trenchers and 
Bpoons: 



6 or 8 trenchers 
for a great lord. 



3 for one of low 
degree. Then eat 
bread for eating. 



For Ea8ter-da7 
Feast: 

First Conrse : 
A Calf. boUed and 
blessed; 

boiled Eggs and 
green sauce ; 



Potage, with beef. 



% Here bogynneth the feestes and seruyce from 
Eestor vnto whytsondaye. 

ON Eester dayo & so forthe to Pewtycost, after y 
seruywge of the table there shall be set brcdc, 
trcnchours, and spones, after the estymacyon of them 
that shall syt there ; and thus ye shall serue your 
souerayne; laye [six or eight *] tre/ichours / & yf he be 
of a lower degre [or] estate, laye fyue trenchours / & yf 
he be of lower degre, foure trenchours / & of an other 
degre, thre trenchours / than cut brede for your souer- 
ayne after ye knowe his condyoyons, wheder it be 
cutte in y myddes or pared, or eUes for to be cut in 

A 

small peces. Also ye must vnderstande how y mete 
shall be serued before youre souerayne, & namely on 

e 

Eester daye after the goucmaunce & seruyce of y 
countree where ye were borne. Fyrste on that dayq he 
shall serue a calfe soden and blessyd / and than sod&» 
egges with grene sauce, and set them before the most 
pryncypall estate / and that lorde by cause of his hygbe 
estate shaU departe them all aboute hym / tban serue 
potage, as wortes, lowtes, or browes, with befe, motton, 

1 Sco above, in the Ecrapge of Flessho, p. 271, lines 5 and 4 
L'om. the bottom. 



THE BOKE OF KERUYNGE : WYNKYN DB WORDE. 275 

or vele / & capowa that ben coloured with saffron, and Batfron^uined 

bake metes. And the seconde course, lussell with secoudCourae: 

mamony, and rostod, endoured / & pegyons with bake Mameny.Pigoons. 

metes, as tartes, chewettes, <fe flawnes, & other, after the Chewets, 

Flawnes. 

dysposycyon of the cokes. And at soupertyme dyuers suppcr: 
sauces of mottow or vele in broche\ after the ordynaunce [• ? brothe] 
of the stewarde / and than chekyns ^vith bacon, vele, ohickena. veai. 
roste pegyons or lambe, & kydde roste with y heed ronat lUd, 
& the portenaunce on lambe & pygges fete, with Pi«s'-Foct. 
vinegre & percely theron, & a tawsye fryed, & other »Taiiae7friod. 
bake metes / ye shall vnderstawde this maner of seruyce 
* dureth to Pontecoste, saue fysshe dayes. Also take pFoi. bL] 
hede how ye shall araye these thynges before your 
souerayne / fyrst ye shall se there be grene sauces of Green Sauoe* of 
sorell of of vynes, that is holde a sauce for the fyrst foJoJetotcourae. 
course / and ye shall begyn to reyse the capon. 

^ Here endeth the feest of Eester tyll Pentecoste. Ktnmo<^ou 

manur of Fowles. 

And here begynneth keruyng of all maner of fowles. 

1 Sauce that capon. cap<m, 

^ Take vp a capon, & lyfte vp the ryght legge and 
the ryght wynge, & so araye forth & laye hym in the 
plater as he sholde flee, & serve your souerayne / & 
knowe well that capons or chekyns ben arayod after 
one sauce ; the chekyn shall be sauced with grene saucc : green 

laoce or veijuico. 

sauce or vergyus. 

% Lyfte that swanne. smm. 

^ Take and dyghte hym as a goose, but let hym ^^"^ j^^j^^*"* 
haue a largyoiu* brawne, & loke ye haue chawdron. 

% Alaye that fesande. Fheawnt. 

T Take a fesande, and reyse his legges & his wynges 
as it were an henne, & no sauce but oncly salte. No sauce but sa:t. 

IT wynge that partryche. partridoc 

T Take a partryche, and reyse his legges and his 
wynges as a henne / & ye mynce hym, sauce hym with 

18 • 



276 



KERUTNG OP ALL MANER OP POWLE& 



Baaeefor 
Partridges. 



Nowtooarvta 
QuaU. 



Banoe: nit 



C!raiM. 



BAQoe: ginger, 
miutard. vinegar, 
and salt 



[Fol. B i. b.] 
StnMm 



Banco as before. 
BUtem, 

Salt, the aaoee. 
Egret. 

Bait, the aaaoe. 
Omrlew. 

Bait, as aaaoe. 



Bait, as sauce. 
Cot^f or Babbit. 



Sauce: vinegar 
and ginger. 



wyn, poudre of gynger, & salte / that set it vpon a 
chaufyng-dysshe of coles to warms & senie it. 

T wynge that quayle. 

^ Take a quayle, and reyse his legges and his 
wynges as an henne, and no sauce but salte. 

Dysplaye that crane. 

% Take a crane, and ynfolde his legges, and cut of 
his wynges by the loyntes : than take vp hys wynges 
and his legges, and sauce hym with poudres of gynger, 
mustarde, yynegre, and salte. 

Dysmembre that heron. 
IT Take an heron, and reyse his legges and his 
wynges as a crane, and sauce hym with vynegre, mus- 
tarde, poudre of gynger, and salte. 

Vnioint that bytture. 
% Take a bytture, and reyse his legges & his 
wynges as an heron, & no sauce but salte. 

Breke that egryt. 
% Take an egryt, and reyse his legges and his 
wynges as cm heron, and no sauce but salte. 

Vntache that curlewe. 
% Take a curlewe, and reyse his legges and his 
wynges as an henne, and no sauce but salte. 

T Vntache that brewe. 
^ Take a brewe, and reyse his legges and his 
wynges in the same maner, and no sauce but onely 
salte, & seme your souerayne. 

Vnlace that cony. 
% Take a cony, and laye hym on the backe, & cut 
awaye the ventes / than reyse the wynges and the 
sydes, and laye bulke, chyne, and the sydes togyder; 
sauce, vynegre and poudre of gynger. 



THE BOKB OP KERUTNGE : WTNKTN DB WORDB. 277 

Bieke that sarcelL aarcaorTui. 

% Take a sarcell or a teele, and reyse his wynges & 
his legges, and no sauce but salte onely. 

Mynce that plouer. Piwer, 

% Take a plouer, and reyse his legges and his 
wynges as an henne, and no sauce but onely salt 

A snyte. *•*». 

% Take a snyte, and reyse his wynges, his legges, 
and his sholdres, as a plouer ; and no sauce but salte. 

% Thye that woodcocke. cFoi. b u.l 

Woodaock, 

Take a woodcocke, & reyse his legges and his 
wynges as an henne; this done, dyght the brayne. 
And here begynneth the feest &om Pentecost vnto 
mydsomer. 

rr the seconde course for the metes before sayd ye smoob for the 
Second Coone. 
shall take for your sauces, wyne, ale, vynegre, and 

poudres, after the mete be ; & gynger & canell from 

Pentecost to the feest of saynt lohn baptyst. The Hwtooune: 

Beef«ndObpoiii. 

fyrst course shall be befe, motton soden with capons, 
or rested / & yf the capons be soden, araye hym in 
the maner aforesayd. And whan he is rested, thou Howtoaaiieeuui 
must caste on salte, with wyne or with ale / thaw take ^^n*^^*^^ 
the capon by the legges, & caste on the sauce, & 
breke hym out, & laye hym in a dysshe as he sholde JSLSu)^**'*' 
flee. Fyrst ye shall cut the ryght legge and the ryght 
sholdre, & bytwene the foure membres laye the 
brawne of the capon, with the croupe in the ende by- 
twene the legges, as it were possyble for to be loyned 
agayne togyder/ & other bake metes after : And in the seoondOoam: 

^ ' Potage: Cbarleti. 

seconde course, potage shall be, lussell, charlet, or yonngOeeM. 

, .., , , Payne Puffe, *c. 

mortrus, with yonge geese, vele, porke, pygyons or 
chekyns rested, with payne pufle / fruyters, cuid other 
bake metes after the ordynauTzce of the coke. Also the How to eanre k 

Goooe. 

goose ought to be cut membre to membre, begynnynge 
at the ryght legge, and so forth vnder the ryght wynge, 



278 



THE SERVICE FROM MIDSUMMER TO CHRISTMAS. 



cjooBo mmt bo ."^ & not vpoii the loynte aboue / & it ouglit for to be 
garuc or verjuice, eteii with grene garlyke, or witb sorell, or tender vynes, 
or vergyus in somer season, after the pleasure of your 
souerayne. Also ye shall vnderstande that all maner 
of fowle that hath hole fete sholde be reysed vnder the 
wynge, and not aboue. 



% Here endeth the fccst from Pentecost to myd- 
sonier. And here begynneth from the feest of sajTit 



Dinner Coune$ 
from the jYo- 
HvUy' qfSt John 

9i,)toMickaam<u. lohu the baptist vnto Myghelmasse. 



Fint CouTBO : 
soups, vegetables, 
legs of Fork, Aa 



Second Course : 

roost Mutton, 
glazed Pigeons, 

Fritters, Ac. 

Serve a Pheasant 
dry, with salt and 
ginger : 



A Heronsowe with 
salt and powder 
(blanche D 



Treat open- 
clawed birds like 
capons. 



TN the fyrst course, potage, "wortes, gruoU, & four- 
-*- menty, with venyson, and mortrus and pestelles of 
porke with grene sauce. Rested capon, swanne with 
chawdron. In the seconde course, potage after the 
ordynaunce of the cokes, with rested motton, vele, 
porke, chekyns or endoured pygyons, heron-sewes, 
fruyters or other bake metes / & take hede to the 
fesande : he shall be arayed in the maner of a capon / 
but it shall be done drye, without ony moysture, and he 
shall be eten with salte and pouder of gynger. And 
the heronsewe shall be arayed in the same manor with- 
out ony moysture, & he shulde be eten with salte and 
poudre. Also ye shall vnderstande that all maner of 
fowles hauynge open clawes as a capon, shall be tyred 
and arayed as a capon and suche other. 



JHnner Cowraea 

from Michaelnuu _ ^. 

tochriatnuu. 01 Ohrystynmasse. 



% From the feest of saynt Myghell vnto the fec^t 



First Course : 
legs of Pork, Ac. 



Second Course: 



IN the fyrst course, potage, befe, motton, bacon, or 
pestelles of porke, or with goose, capon, mallarde, 
swanne, or fesande, as it is before sayd, with tartes, or 
bake metes, or chynes of porke. In the second course, 
potage, mortrus, or conyes, or sewe / than roste flesshe, 
motton, porke, vele, pullettcs, chekyns, pygyons, tceles, 

* The feast of St John's Beheading is on Aug. 29. 



THE BOKE OF KEBUYNGB : WYNKYN DE WORDE. 279 

wegyons, mallardes, partryche, woodcoke, plouer, byt- widgeon, 
ture, curlewe, heronsewe / venyson roost, grete byrdes, 
snytes, feldefayres, tbrusshes, fruyters, cbewettes, befe Fieidfareg. 

. OUewcis, Beef, 

vntii sauce gelopere, roost with sauce pegyll, & other with utuces 

. ■ Gelopere and 

ba'ke metes as is aforesayde. And yf ye kerue afore Pegyii. 
your lorde or your lady ony soden flesshe, kcrue awaye Cut the akin off 

xri 1 #11 1 t n ^ n t *>oHod moate. 

the skywne aboue / thaw kerue resonably of y flesshe Carvecarefuuyfor 
to your lorde or lady, and specyally for ladyes, for y * p /or they] 

"^ " Ladles: they soon 

wyll soone be angry, for theyr thoughtes ben soone get angry. 

changed / and some lordes wyll be sone pleased, & some 

wyll not / as they be of compleccyow. The goos & <^**^^ ooo«e and 

swanne may be cut as ye do other fowles y* haue hole birds. 

fete, or elles as your lorde or your lady wyll aske it. 

Also a swanne wzt/i chawdron, capow, or fesande, ought 

for to be arayed as it is aforesayd / but the skjmne must 

be had awaye / & whan they hen kerued before your 

lorde or your lady / for generally the skynno of all 

maner clovew foted fowles is vnholsome / & the skynne TheBkinofcioTen- 

footed birds is 

of all maner hole foted fowles ben hokome for to bo on wholesome: 
eten. Also wete ye well that all maner hole foted of whoie-footed 

•^ birds 

fowles that haue theyr lyuyng vpon the water, theyr 

skynnes ben holsome & clene, for by y clenes of the wholesome. 

water / & fysshe, is theyr lyuynge. And yf that they 

etc ony stynkynce thynce, it is made so clene with y because the water 

•^ "^ "^ *^ " " washes all corrup- 

water that all the corrupcyon is clene gone away frome tion out of 'cm. 
it. And the skynne of capon, henne, or chekyn, ben not Chickens' skin is 

not BO pure, 

80 clene, for the[y] ete foule thynges in the strete / & 

therfore the skynnes ben not so holsome / for it is not because their 

g nature la not to 

theyr kynde to entre in to y ryuer to make theyr mete enter into the 

voyde of y fylth. Mallarde, goose, or swanne, they 

ete vpon the londe foule mete / but a-non, after theyr Eirer birds 

kynde, they go to the ryuer, & theyr they dense them stink in the river. 

of theyr foule stynke. A fesande as it is aforesayd / but 

y skynne is not holsome / than take y heddes of all f?*^«®^.5»«bead8 

^ 'J I "^ of all field birds, 

felde byrdes and wood byrdes, as fesande, pecocke, 
partryche, woodcocke, and curlewe, for they ete in for they eat 



280 



SEWYNGE OP FTSSHE. KEBUYNOE OP PYSSHE. 



woriM. toads, and theyT degrees foule thynges, as wonnes, todes, and other 

suche. 



FynKe, 

Fint Oowrm : 
Mu8calade, 



BalenB, Ac, 
baked Oumet. 



Second CtoMTW : 
Jelly, dates, Ac 
For a standard. 

Mullet, Ohab, 
Seal, ftc 

TMrddmru: 

Bresm, Perch, 
Whelks; and 
pears in BOgar 
candy. Figs, 
[I Orig. raysynsl 
dates capiKMl with 
mlnoed ginger. &e. 

AlloTer! Clear 
the table. 



^ Here endetli the feestes and the keraynge of 
flesshe, And here begynneth the sewynge of fysshe. 

^ The fyrst coarse. 

TO go to sewynge of fysshe : musculade, menewes in 
sewe of porpas or of samon, bacon herywge wtt^ 
suger, grene fysshe, pyke, lampraye, salens, porpas 
rosted, bake gumade, and lampraye bake. 

^ The seconde course. 
^ Gelly whyte and rede, dates in confetes, congre, 
samon, dorrey, brjrtte, turbot, halybut / for standarde, 
base, troute, molette, cheuene, sele, eles & lamprayes 
roost, tenche in gelly. 

^ The thyrde coursa 
^ Fresshe stuigyon, breme, perche in gelly, a loll 
of samon, sturgyon, and welkes ; apples & peres rosted 
with suger candy. Fygges of malyke, & raysyns,* dates 
capte wit^ mynced gynger / wafers and ypocras, they 
ben agreable / this feest is done, voyde ye the table. 



CFol. B til. b.] 
Carving and 
Drtntng <if Fiah. 



THere endeth sewynge of fysshe. And here 
foloweth keruynge of fysshe. 



Put talis and 
livers in the pea 
broth and ftinnity . 
How to carve 
Seal Tunrentyne, 

baked Herring, 
white Herring, 



QreenFlsh, 

Moriing, Hake, 
Pike. 



THe keruer of fysshe must se to pessene & fourmen- 
tye the tayle and y lyuer : ye must loke yf there 
be a salte purpos, or sele tuirentyne, & do after y 
fourme of venyson / baken herynge, laye it hole vpon 
your soueraynes trenchour / whyte herynge in a disshe, 
open it by y backe, pyke out the bones & the rowe, & 
se there be mustarde. Of salte fysshe, grene fysshe, 
salt samon & congre, pare away y skyn / salte fysshe, 
stocke fysshe, marlynge, makrell, and hake, with butter : 
take awaye the bones <& the skynnes. A pyke, laye y 



THE SOKE OF KEBUTNGE : WYNKTN DE WOBDE. 281 

wombe vpon his trenchour witk pyke sauce ynoughe. 

A salte ^lampraye, gobone it flatte in .vii or .viii g^tif^pi*;^ 

peces, & lay it to your souerayne. A playce, put out ^wce, 

the water / than crosse hym with your kn3rfe, caste on 

salte & wyne or ale. Gomarde, rochet, breme, cheuene, Qan»*rd, Bream. 

base, molet, roche, perche, sole, makrell & whytynge, Bo«ch. whiung. 

haddocke and codlynge, reyse them by the backe, & o^xu^g. 

pyke out the bones, & dense the refet in y bely. 

Carpe, breme, sole, & troute, backe & belly togyder. carp. Trout, 

Samon, congre, stuigyon, turbot, thorpole, thomebaqke, Conger. Thom- 

e back, Halibut, 

houTide-fysshe, & halybut, cut them in the dysshe as y 

porpas aboute / tenche in his sauce, cut it / eles & Tench. 

lamprayes roost, pull of the skynne, pyke out y bones, 

put therto vyneger & poudre. A crabbe, breke hym and crab. 

a-sonder in to a dysshe, make y shelle clene, & put in 

the stuffe agayne, tempre it with vynegre & pouder, how to dx«n and 

than couer it with brede, and sonde it to the kytchyn ■•^•°^* 

to hete / than set it to your souerayne, and breke 

the grete dawes, cuid laye them in a disshe. A 

creues, dysrht hym thus: departe hym a-sonder, & How to drew and 

•"^ " e carve a Crajflah, 

slytee* the belly, and take out y fysshe ; pare away the [« •<«] 
reed skynne, and mynce it thynne ; put vynegre in the 
dysshe, and set in on y table witi^out hete. A lol of aJoUofstmseon. 
sturgyon, cut it in thynne morseUes, & lay it rouTide 



aboute the dysshe. Fresshe lampraye bake: open y afresbLamimy. 

iwatj. 

pasty / than take whyte brede, and cut it thynne, & 

lay it in a dysshe, & with a spone take out galentyne, (aanoe. Qaimtyne 

& lay it vpon the brede with reed wyne & poudre of and powdered 

synamon / than cut a gobone of the lampraye, & mynce 

the gobone thynne, and laye it in the galentyne ; than 

set it Tpon the fyre to hete. Fresshe herynge with FtwhHeiTincAe. 

salte & wyne / shrympes wel pyked, flouTtdres, gogyons, 

menewes & musceles, eles and lamprayes : sprottes is sprati. 

good in sewe / musculade in wortes / oystres in ceuy, Mnacniade tn 

. . . 01 worts, Oyaten, 

oysters in grauy, menewes in porpas, samon & seele, 

gelly* whyte and reede, creme of almondes, dates in DiJ^^JiJ^'*'^ 



282 



SAUCES FOB FYSSHE. THE CHAUMBEBLAYNE. 



Hortrewes of 
DogflBh. 



comfetes, peres and quynces in syrupe, with, percely 
rotes ; mortms of houndes fysshe, ryse standynge. 



Semeta for Fish. 

Mnstanl for 
Salmon, Ac; 

Vinegar for salt 
Wh&Ie, &c.; 



Galentyne for 
Lamprey; 
Verjuice for 
Iloach, &c : 
Cinnamon for 
Chub, ftc. ; 



Green Sauce for 
Halibut. Ac 



% Here endeth the keruynge of fysshe. And here 
begywneth sauces for all maner of fysshe. 

MUstarde is good for salte herynge / salte fysshe, 
salte- congre, samon, sparlynge, salt ele & lynge : 
vynegre is good with salte porpas, turrentyne salte / 
sturgyow salte, thropole, & salt wale / lampray with 
galentyne / vergyus to roche, dace, breme, molet, base, 
flounders, sole, crabbe, and cheuene, with poudre of 
synamon ; to thomebacke, herynge, houndefysshe, had- 
docke, whytynge, & codde, vynegre, poudre of synamon, 
& gynger ; grene sauce is good with grene fysshe & 
halybut, cottell, & fresshe turbot / put not your grene 
sauce awaye, for it is good with mustards. 



*([ Here ondeth for all maner of sauces for fysscho 
accordynge to theyr appetyte. 



TheDutietqfa 
Ohamberiain. 

He must be 
cleanly, and comb 
his hair: 

see to his Lord's 
clothes, and 
brush his hose; 



in the morning 
warm liis shirty 



and prepare his 
footsheet; 



[I Fol. B 6.] 
warm his pety- 
cote, Ac, ; 

put on his shoes, 
tie up hte hose. 



% The chaumberlayne. 

THe caumberlayne muste be dylygewt & clenly in 
his offyce, with his heed kembed, & so to his 
souerayne that he be not recheles, & se that he haue a 
clene sherte, breche, petycote, and doublet / than 
brusshe his hosen within & without, & se his shone & 
slyppers be made clene / & at mome whan your 
souerayne wyll aryse, warms his sherte by the fyro / 
& se ye haue a fote shete made in this maner. Fjxst 
set a chayre by the f^Tc with a cuysshen, an other 
mder his fete / than sprede a shete ouer the chayre, 
and se there be redy a kerchefe * and a combe / than 
warme his petycote, his doublet, and his stomachere / 
& than put on his hosen & his shone or slyppers, than 
stryke vp his hosen manerly, & tye them vp, than lace 



THE BOKE OF KERUTNGE : WTNKTN DB WORDE. 283 

his doublet hole by hole, & laye the clothe aboute his 
nocke & kembe his hede / than loke ye haue a basyn, comb his head, 
<& an ewer with warme water, and a towell, and wasshe wash hii hands, 
his handes / than knele vpon your knee, & aske your 
souerayne what robe he wyll were, & brynge hiTn such p«t <» **»« «>^ 

he orden. 

as your souerayne commauTwieth, A put it vpon hym ; 

than doo his gyrdell aboute hym, & take your leue 

manerly, & go to the chyrche or chapell to your Make ready ws 

soueraynes closet, & laye carpentes <& cuysshens, & lay churehorohapei, 

downe his boke of prayers / than drawe the curtynes, 

and take your leue goodly, & go to youre soueraynes then oome home 

to hia Bed- 

chambre, Ss cast all the clothes of his bedde, & bete the chamber, uke off 

feder bedde & the bolster / but loke ye waste no feders ; 

than shall the blankettes, & se the shetes be fayre & 

swete, or elles loke ye haue clene shetes / than make Make ua lord's 

' ^ . ' bed again with 

vp his bedde manerly, than lay the hed shetes & the clean aheeta, 

pyllowes / than take vp the towel & the basyn, & kye 

carpentes aboute the bedde, or wyndowes & cupbordes »nd lay hangings 

^ > J r round the bed, 

layde with carpettes and cuysshyns. Also loke there ">d windows, ac. 
be a good lyre brennynge bryght / & se the hous of 
hesement be swete & clene, & the preuy horde couered ^®®p om pHry 

' '^ "^ clean, and the 

with a grene clothe and a cuysshyn / thaw se there be '^Sf***^**®?... 

° J J / with green doth. 

blanked, donne, ot cotton, for your souerrayne /•& loke „ tSton for*'^'^" 
ye haue basyn, & euer with water, & a towell for your ^J*°*: . 
souerayne / than take of his gowne, & brynge him a **^'^***™'^"^* 
mantell to kepe hym fro colde / than brynge hym to ™f""!:^. , 

^ •' ' J © J take off his shoes, 

the fyre, & take of his shone & his hosen ; than take a *«• 

fayre kercher of rejmes / & kembe his heed, & put on ^°*^ ^^ ^«»*. 

his kercher and his bonet / than sprede downe his patonhunight- 

' ^ cap. 

bedde, laye the heed shete and the pyllowes / & whan 
your souerayne is to bedde ^ drawe the curtynes / than a^J/^h;" Jiilns 
se there be morter or waxe or perchoures be redy / than «>»ad ^^^ 
dryue out dogge or catte, & loke there be basyn and drira oat the 

^^ dogs and eats, set 

vrynall set nere your souerayne / than take your leue the urinai near, 
manerly that your souerayne may take his rest meryly. leave. 

% Here endeth of the chaumberlayne. 



284 



OF THE MARSHALL AND THE YSSHEB. 



O/fhtXanlua 



^ Here foloweth of the Marshall and the vssher. 



He nrast know rilHe Marshall and the vssher muste knowe all the 
p^il'L'l^au -'" estates of the chyrche, and the^ hyghe estate of a 

imnliii. 



kynge, with the blode royalL 



A Oudlnal before 
a Prince. 



Hie Major of 
London nnks 
with the 3 Chief 
JutUoes. 



The Knight's 
•qoAla. 

[Fol. B 6.] 



The ex-M«7or of 
London. 



The Beqnlre'a 



^ The estate of a Pope hath no pere. 

^ The estate of an Emperour is nexte. 

% The estate of a kynge. 

% The estate of a cardynalL 

IT The estate of a kynges sone, a prynce. 

% The estate of an archebysshop. 

^ The estate of a dxike 

% The estate of a bysshop 

^ The estate of a marques 

% The estate of an erle 

^ The estate of a vycount 

^ The estate of a baron« 

% The estate of an abbot with a myter 

^ The estate of the thre chefe luges & the Mayre of 

London. 
% The estate of an abbot without a myter 
% The estate of a knyght bacheler 
^ The estate of a pryour, dene, archedeken, or knyght 
^ The estate of the mayster of the rolles. 
^ The estate of other Justices & barons of the cheker 
% The estate of the mayre of Calays. 
^ The estate of a prouyncyall, a doctour dyvyne, 
% The estate of a prothonat : he is aboue the popes 

coUectour, and a doctour of bothe the lawes. 
% The estate of him that hath ben mayre of London 

and seruaunt of the lawe. 
% The estate of a mayster of the chauncery, and 

other worshypfullprechours of pardon, and clerkes 

that ben gradewable / & all other ordres of 



THE SOKE OF KISRUYNOE : WTKETN DE WORDE. 285 

chastyte, persones & preestes, worshypfdil mar- 
chaimtes & gentylmen, all this may syt at the 
. equyers table. 
^ An archebysshop and a duke may not kepe the Who must dine 

ftlone, 

hall, but echo estate by them selfe in chaumbre 
or in pauylyon, that neyther se other. 
% Bysshoppes, Marques, Erles, & YycouTiteSy all these who 2 tag«th«r. 

ii^y 8yt two at a messe., 
T A baron, & the mayre of London, & thre chefe whojori, 
luges, and the speker of the parlyament, & an 
abbot with a myter, aU these may syt two or 
thre at a messe 
% And all other estates may syt thre or foure at a who s or 4. 
messe 

^ Also the Marshall muste vnderstande and knowe The ibnhaii 
the blode royall, for some lorde is of blode royall & of uvofroymibiood, 
small lyuelode. And some knyght is wedded to a 
lady of royal blode ; she shal kepe the estate that she 
was before. And a lady of lower degree shal kepe the 
estate of her lordes blode / & therfore the royall blode for that hjwuw 

' roTwanoe. 

shall haue the reuereTice, as I haue shewed you here 
before. 

^ Also a marshall muste take hede of the byrthe, 
and nexte of the lyne, of the blode royalL 

T Also he must take hede of the kyncces offycers, ^e most take 

" J o J y heed of the KIng't 

of the Chaunceler, Stewarde, Chamberlayne, Tresourer, oootn, 
and Controller. 

IT Also the marshall must take heed ynto straungers, <io hononr to 

■trangen* 

& put them to worshyp & reuerence ; for and they haue 
good chore it is your soueraynes honour. 

^ Also a Marshall muste take hede yf the kynge andreceirea 
sonde to your souerayne ony message; and yf he send the King as if one 

denee higher 

a knyght, receyue hym as a baron ; and yf he sonde a than he ia» 
squyre, receyue hym as a knyght / and yf he sende you 
a yoman, receyue hym as a squyer / and yf he sende 
you a grome, receyue hym as a yoman. 



286 



OF THE MARSHALL AND THE VSSHEB. 



for a King's groom ^ Also it is noo lebuke to a knyght to setto a grome 

Di*y sit at a • i i 

Knight's ui>ie. 01 the Kjiige at his table. 



Here ends this 
Book 



printed by 
Wyukyn de 
Worde. 

▲.D. 1513. 



% Here endeth the boke of seniyce, & keruynge, 
and Bewynge, and all maner of o%ce in his kyndo vnto 
a piynce or ony other estate, & all the feestes in the 
yere. Enprynted by wynkyn de worde at London in 
Flete strete at the sygne of the sonne. The yere of our 
lorde god M.CCCCC.xiij. 



[iSHjnkgrt .b«. fcorbie*s device here.] 



NOTES. 



"Wynkyn de Worde introduces some dishes, sauces, fish, and one wine, 
not mentioned by Russell. 

The new Dishes are — 

Fayge (p. 271, 1. 10). This may be for SagSj the herb, or a variety of Fritter, 
like Fruiter vaunte (p. 271, 1. 2 j p. 273, 1. 24,),fruifter sa^f (p. 273, 1. 24), or a 
dish that I cannot find, or a way of spelling figs. 

Fruyier say, p. 273, 1 24. If say is not for Sage, then it may be a fish, con- 
trasted with the vaunte f which I suppose to mean ' meat.' Sey is a Scotch name 
for the Coalfish, Merlangus Carbonarius. Yarrell, ii. 251. 

Ckarlet (p. 273, 1. 28). The recipe in* Household Ordinances,' p. 463, is. 
Take swete cowe mylk and put into a panne, and cast in therto ^olkes of eyren 
and the white also, and sothen porke brayed, and sage ; and let hit boyle tyl hit 
crudde, and colour it with saffron, and dresse hit up, and serve hit forthe.*' 
Another recipe for Charlet Enforsed follows, and there are others for Charlet 
and Charlet icdloured, in Liber Cure, p. 11. 

JowieSy p. 274, last line. These are broths of beef or fish boiled with 
chopped boiled herbs and bread, H. Ord. p. 461. Others are made ' with swete 
almond my Ike,* ib. See * Joutus de Almonde,' p. 15, Liber Cure. For * Joutes ' 
p. 47 ; * for o>er ioutes,' p. 48. 

JSrotces, p. 274, last lino. This is doubtless the Brus of Household Ordi- 
nances, p. 427, and the bruys of Liber Cure, p. 19, 1. 3, brewis, or broth. Brus 
was made of chopped pig's-inwards, leeks, onions, bread, blood, vinegar. For 
'Brewewes in Soraere * see H. Ord. p. 453. 

ChewetteSy p. 275, 1. 4, were small pies of chopped-up livers of pigs, hens, and 
capons, fried in grease, mixed with hard eggs and ginger, and then fried or 
baked. Household Ordinances, p. 442, and lAber Cure, p. 41. The Chewets for 
fish days were similar pies of chopped turbot, haddock, and cod, ground dates, 
raisins, prunes, powder and salt, fried in oil, and boiled in sugar and wine. 
Z. Cure, p. 41. Markham's Recipe for 'A Chewet Fye * is at p. 80-1 of his 
EngUsh Houswife. Chewit, or small Pie ; minced or otherwise. R. Holme. 
See also two recipes in MS. Harl. 279, fol. 38. 

Flaunes (p. 275, 1. 4) were Cheesecakes, made of ground cheese beaten up 
with eggs and sugar, coloured with saffron, and baked in * cofyns ' or crusts. 
' A Flaune of ' Almayne ' or ' Crustade ' was a more elaborate preparation of 
dried or fresh raisins and pears or apples pounded, with cream, eggs, bread, 
spices, and butter, strained and baked in ' a faire coffyn or two.' H. Ord, 
p. 452. 

Of new Sauces, Wynkyn de Worde names Gelopere & Pegyll (p. 279, 1. 4), 

Gelopere I cannot find, and can only suggest that its p may be for^ and that 
** cloves of gelofer," the clove-gillyflower, may have bet n the basis of it. 

These cloves were stuck in ox tongues, see '* Lange dc beof,'* Liber Cure, p. 



288 NOTES TO BOKE OF KEBUTNGE. 

86. MufPett also recommends Gilly-flour Vine^ as the best saaoe for 
sturgeon in sammer, p. 172 ; and Vinegar of Glove-Gilliflowers is mentioned 
bj Culpepper, p. 97, Physical Directory, 1649. 

Pegylle I take to be the FykuUe of Liber Cure Cocorom, p. 31, made thus ; 
' Take droppyng of capone rostyd wele 
With wyne and mustarde, as have >ou cele [bliss]. 
With onyons smalie schrad, and sothun in greoe, 
Meng alle in fere, and forthe hit messe.' 

The new Wine is Campokt, p. 267. Henderson does not mention it ; Halli- 
well has ' Campletea. A kind of wine, mentioned in a curious list in MS. 
RawL C. 86.* [See the list in the Notes to Russell, above, p. 202.] I sup- 
pose it to be the wine from ' Campole- The name of a certaine white grape, 
which hath very white kernels.' Cotgrave. 

Of new FUh W. de Worde names the Salens (p. 280, 1. 8), Cottell and Tenek 
(p. 281). Torrentyne he makes sele iurreniyne (p. 280) seemingly, but has 
iurreniyne salte as a fish salted, at p. 282, 1. 7. 

€hiiell,p, 282, 1 14, the cuttlefish. Of these, Sepia vel LoUigines ealamariat 
Muffet says, they are called also ' sleewes * for their shape, and ' scribes ' fo^ 
their incky humour wherewith they are replenished, and are commended by 
Qalen for great nourishers ; their skins be as smooth as any womans, but their 
flesh is brawny as any ploughmans ; therefore 1 fear me Galen rather com- 
mended them upon hear-say then upon any just cause or true experience. 

For the Salens I can only suggest thunny. Aldrovandi, de Fiscibue, treating 
of the synonyms of the Salmon, p. 482, says, " Grscam salmonis nomenda- 
turam non inuenio, neq»^ est quod id miretur curiosus lector, cum in 
Oceano tantum flumixibusqKtf in eum se exonerantibus reperiatur, ad quss 
yeteres Grssci nunquam penetraruut. Qui voluerit, Salangem appellare 
poterit. SaX^x^ ^^™ hovi, id est, delicati piscis nomen legitur apud He- 
8ychium,nec prsetereaqui sit, explicatur : aut amigrandi natura tearavd^po^oc, 
yel ipSfioc fluyiatilis dicatur, nam Aristoteles in mari dromades vocat 
Thunnos aliosqM gregales, qui aliunde in Fontum excurrunt, et viz yno 
loco conquiescunt ; aut nomen fingatur a saltu, & SXfuav dicitur. Non placet 
tamen, salmonis nomen a saltu deduci, aut etiam a sale, licet saliendi natura ei 
optim^ quadret saleqtf^ aut muria inueturaria etiam soleat. Non enim latine 
Bed a Germams Belgisu^ Rheni accolis, aut Gallis Aquitaniois accepta yox 
est." See also p. 318. * Scardula, et Incobia ex Figis, et Flota, Sale«a*' 
Getner, de Fiscibus, p. 273. Can ealens be the Greek ' etaXiiv, a shell-fish, 
perhaps like the razor-fish. Epich. p. 22.' — ^Liddell and Scott — ^P I presume 
not. 'Solen. The flesh is sweet; they may be eaten fryed or^iled.' 1661, 
R. Loyell, Hist of JnimaUf p. 240. ' Solen : A genus of bivalye mollusks, 
haying a long slender shell ; razor-fish.' Webster's Diet. 

Sele turrenlyne^ p. 277. Seemingly a yariety of seal, or of eel or sole itsele 
is a misprint. But I cannot suggest any fish for it 

BochelSf p. 281, 1. 5. Eubelliones, RoeheU (or rath'^.r Rougets, because 
they are so red) differ from Gurnards and Curs, in that they are redder by 
a great deal/ and also lesser ; they are of the like flesh and goodness, yet better 
fryed with onions, butter, and yinegar, then sodden. MufTett, p. 166. 



SFli^ l«*h ai 



BtmtKnax 



anb 






of 



ttxivLm Minlitmtmaxn 



m 



Cnmpanu, 



[From the reprint by Bexifdey & Sons (in 1817) of "The 

Booke of Demeanor ^m Small Poems entitled The 

Schode of Vertve by Eichard Weste," 1619, 12mo.] 



19 



To the Reader. 



E Ightly conceiue me, and obserue me well, 
I Doe what heere is done for Childrens good, 
C Hrist in his Gospell (as S. Marke doth tell) 
H Ath not forbidden Children, nor withstood 
A Ny that shoald but aske the ready way, 
B Egarding Children, not to say them nay. 
D Irecting all that came, how faith should be, 

W Hat they should crave of Gods high Majestie, 
E Ven Salvation, through their faithful Prayer, 
S Ending their contemplations into the ayre, 
T his high throne, whose love so guide us all 
E Ven to the end we neuer cease to call 



' [N.B. — The stops and sidenotcs are those of the original, hot 

that has no Headlines.] 



The Booke of 

Demeanor. 



8 



Stand straight ypright, and both thy feet 

together cloaely standing, 
Be sure on% eyer let thine eye 

be still at thy commanding. 

Observe that nothing wanting be 
which shoidd be on the bord. 

Ynlesse a question moved be, 
be carefull : not a word. 



Senrinfr at 
the table. 



SlleiiM. 



12 



If thou doe give or fill the drinke, 

with duty set it downe, 
And take it backe with manlike cheere 

not like a rusticke Lowne. 



SerrlRff 
or flUlng 
drinka. 



16 



If on an errand thou be sent, 
make haste and doe not stay. 

When all have done, observe the time, 
serve Grod and take away. 



Cp. <.] iron an 
errand. 



When thou hast done and dined well, 

remember thou repaire 
To schoole againe with carefulnesse, 
20 be that thy cheefest care. 



To Khoola 
againe. 



24 



And marke what shall be read to thee, 

or given thee to leame, 

That apprehend as neere as may be, 

wisdome so doth wame. 

19 • 



292 



RICHARD WBSTE S BOOKE OF DEMEANOR. 



To Qfl6 th« 

browaf. 



With stedfast eye and caref ull eare, 

remember every word 
Thy Schoole master shall speake to thee, 
28 as memory shall afford. 

Let not thy browes be backward drawn, 

it is a signe of pride, 
Exalt them not, it shewes a hart 
32 most arrogant beside. 



[p. 7.] 



Tht^jet. 



Th*ft>r»> 
heal. 



Count*- 

nanoe. 



ThenoM* 



Nor let thine eyes be gloting downe, 

cast with a hanging looke : 
For that to dreamers doth belong, 
36 that goodnesse cannot brooke. 

Let forehead joyfoU be and fiill, 

it shewes a merry part, 
And cheerefulnesse in coimtenance, 
40 and pleasantnesse of heart. 

Nor wrinckled let thy countenance be, 

still going to and fro : 
For that belongs to hedge-hogs right, 
44 they wsdlow even so. 

Nor imitate with Socrates, 

to wipe thy snivelled nose 
Vpon thy cap, as he would doe, 
48 nor yet upon thy clothes. 

But keepe it cleane with handkerchiffe, 

provided for the same, 
Not with thy fingers or thy sleeve, 
52 therein thou art too blame. 



fp.8.] 



Blowing or 
breathing. 



Blow not alowd as thou shalt stand, 
for that is most absurd. 



RICHARD WESTE 8 BOOKE OF DEMEANOR. 



293 



56 



lust like a broken winded horse, 
it is to be abhord. 



60 



64 



68 



72 



76 



80 



Nor practize snufflngly to speake, 

for that doth imitate 
The brutish Storke and Elephant, 

yea and the wralling cat 

If thou of force doe chance to neeze, [p. 9 j 

then backewards tume away 
From presence of the company, 

wherein thou art to stay. 

Thy cheekes with shamefac't modesty, 

dipt in Dame Natures die, 
Not counterfet, nor puflfed out, 

observe it carefully. 

Keepe close thy mouth, for why, thy breath 

may hap to give offence. 
And other worse may be repayd 

for further recompence. 

Nor put thy lips out like a f oole 

as thou wouldst kisse a horse, 
When thou before thy betters art, 

and what is ten times worse. 



Snaffling in 
thenoM 
when yon 
■peak«. 



Neesing. 



The 
Cheekee. 



Breath- 
ing. 



Lipe. 



84 



To gape in such unseemely sort, 
with ugly gaping mouth. 

Is like an image pictured 
a blowing from the south. 

Which to avoyd, then tume about, 
and with a napkin hide 

That gaping foule deformity, 
when thou art so aside. 



[p. 10.] 



Yawning. 



294 

Lugbing. 



BIOHABD WE8TE 8 BOOKE OF DEMEANOB. 

To laugh at all things thou shalt heare, 

IB neither good nor fit^ 
It shewes the property and forme 
88 of one with little wit. 



Biting tti» 
Up. 



92 



To bite the lip it seemeth baae, 

for why, to lay it open. 
Most base dissembling doggednesse, 

most sure it doth betoken. 



BlttngtlM 
upper Up. 



96 



And so to bite the upper lip 
doth most uncomely shew, 

The lips set close (as like to kisse) 
in manner seeme not so. 



[p. U.] 



toiigas. 



SpltUng. 



To put the tongue out wantonly, 

and draw it in agen, 
Betokens mocking of thy selfe, 
100 in all the eyes of men, 

If spitting chance to move thee so 

thou canst it not forbeare, 
Bemember do it modestly, 
104 consider who ia there. 



Haramer- 

iu^in 

■peoch. 



Belching. 



If filthiness, or ordure thou 
upon the floore doe cast, 
Tread out, and cleanse it with thy foot, 
108 let that be done with haste. 

If in thy tale thou hammering stand, 

or coughing twixt thy words. 
It doth betoken a liers smell, 
112 that's all that it affords. 

To belch or bulch like ClitiphOf 
whom Terence setteth forth, 



[p. It.] 



RICHARD WESTE's BOOKE OF DEMEANOR. 295 

Comniendeth manners to be base, 
116 most foule and nothing worth. 

If thou to vomit be constrained, Vomiting. 

avoyd from company : 
So shall it better be excus*d, 
120 if not through gluttony. 

Keep white thy teeth, and wash thy mouth Keeping 
with water pure and cleane, deane. 

And in that washing, mannerly 
124 observe and keep a meane. 

Thy head let that be kembd and trimd, ^' "-^ ^^ 

let not thy haire be long, 
It is unseemely to the eye, 
1 28 rebuked by the tongue. 

And be not like a slothfuU wight. Hanging 

, ,. , , , , down the 

delighted to hang downe head- 

The head, and lift the shoulders up, 
132 nor with thy browes to frowne. 

To carry up the body faire, S!^.**' 

is decent, and doth shew 

A comely grace in any one, 

136 Where ever he doth goe. 

To hang the head on any side, SehS 

doth shew hypocrisie : •»*''^ 

And who shall use it trust him not, 
140 he deales with policie. 

Let not thy privy members be ^* ***^ Siuabei* 

layd open to be vieVd, 
It is most shamefull and abhord, 
144 detestable and rude. 



296 



RICHARD WESTE 8 BOOKE OF DEMEANOR. 



Urine or 
windft. 



Bimag. 



Eetaine not urine nor the winde, 

which doth thy body vex. 
So it be done with secresie, 
H8 let that not thee perplex. 

And in thy sitting use a meane, 

as may become thee well« 
Kot straddling, no nor tottering, 
152 and dangling like a belL 



CartMda. 



Tht gate in going. 



Observe in Curtesie to take 

a rule of decent kinde, 
Bend not thy body too far foorth, 
156 nor backe thy leg behind. 

In going keep a decent gate, 

not faining lame or broken, 
For that doth seeme but wantonnesse, 
160 and foolishnesse betoken. 



[p. 15.] 



AppumlL 



Let thy apparrell not exceede, 
to passe for sumptuous cost, 
Nor altogether be too base, 
164 for so thy credit's lost 

Be modest in thy wearing it, 

and keep it neat and cleane, 
For spotted, dirty, or the like, 
168 is lothsome to be scene. 



172 



This for thy body may suffice, 

how that must ordred be : 
Now at the Church thou shalt observe 

to God how all must be. 



[No doubt incomplete, F. J. F.] 



®s» 




flk flf €ntiUM. 



FEOM THE SLOANE MS. 1986 IN THE BRITISH MUSEUM, 

AB. 1430—40 A.D. 



CONTENTS 



OF 



THE BOKE OF CUBTASYE. 



(From the Headings in the Text,) 



PAGE 

Here begynnethe fe pyrst bokb of curtasyb 299 

THE SECOND BOOK 303 

THE THIRD BOOK: 

De officiarijs in curijs ^ominorum 309 

De lanitora 310 

De Marescallo aule 310 

Ver qt^antum i&in^m armige?i ha&elnmt liberata?/!, et ignis 

ardebit m &id& 311 

De pinc^mario, panetario, et cocis sibi seruienHhus . . 312 

De ofl&cio pincemarij 312 

De hostiario et suis seruientib^i^) 312 

De Officto garctonum 313 

De seneschallo . . . . . . . . . . . . 316 

De contrarotulatore 317 

De 8up«ruiaore . . 317 

De Clerico coquine 317 

De cancellario 317 

De thesaurizario 318 

De receptore ^imarum 319 

De Auenario 319 

De pistoie . . 320 

De venatoie et suia canibu^ 320 



CONTENTS OF THE BOKE OF CURTA8YE. 





PAGE 


De aquario 


. 321 


Qui debent manus lauare, ef in qwoi-wm doniibitt.- . . 


. . 321 


De panetario 


. . 322 


De Cultellis damini . . 


. . 322 


De Elemosinario 


. . 323 


De ferculario 


. . 324 


De candelario 


. 326 



€\t bk of Cnrtasjt. 



JlEre begynnetha fe fyrst boke of curtasye. 

Qwo 80 wylle of curtasy lere, 
In this boke be may bit here ! 
Yf tbow be gentylmon, jomoTi^ or knaue, 
4 Tbe nedis nurture for to baue. 
Wbefi tbou comes to a lordis jate, 
Tbe porter )>ou sballe fynde tber-ate ; 
Take bym tbow sbalt Jy wepyn tbo, 
8 And aske bym leue in to go 
% To speke witA lorde, lady, squyer, or grome. 
Tber-to tbe nedys to take tbe tome * ; 
For yf be be of logbe degre, 
12 Tban bym falles to come to tbe ; 
% Yf be be gentylmon of kyii, 
Tbe porter wille lede tbe to bym. 
Wben tbow come tbo balle dor to, 
16 Do of tby bode, tby gloues also ; 
% Yf po balle be at tbe furst mete, 
Tbis lessoun loke tbow nojt for-^ete : 
))e stuard, countroller, and tresurere, 
20 Sittand at de desbe, pou baylse in fere. 
^ Wit/tifi fe hdUe sett on aytber side, 
Sitten otber gentylmen as fallen ]>at tyde ; 
Enclyne )>e fayre to bom also, 
24 First to tbe lyjbt bonde pan sballe go, 

^ Toom or rymthe. Spacium, tempui, oporiuniUu, P. Parv. 



[FoL IS.] 

In this book you 
niAjrleani 
Courtesy. 
Erery one needs 
It. 



On reaching a 
Lord's gate, giTe 
the Porter your 
weapon, and aak 
leaTe to go in. 



If the maater is of 
low degree, he 
%ill oome to yoa; 
if of high, the 
Porter will take 
yoa to him. 

At the HaU-door, 

takeoff yoar hood 
and gloTca. 

If the ilrst meal la 
beginning. 



greet tbe Steward, 
Ac, at the dais, 

bow to the Gentle- 
men on each sida 
of the hall. 



both right 



300 



HOW TO BEHAVE AT TABLE. 



and left ; 



nottoe the yeomen, 
then etand before 
the screen 



till the Mmnhal 
or Ueher leads 
yoa to the table. 

Be sedate and 
cjaneous if you 
are set with the 
gentlemen. 

Cnt your loaf in 
two, the top from 
the bottom ; 

cat the top onut 
in 4, 

and the bottom 
in 8. 



Pat yoar trencher 
before you, 

and don't eat or 
drink till yoar 
Mess is brought 
fk-om the kitdien, 
lest you be 
thought starved 
or a glutton. 

Have yoar nails 
clean. 

Don't bite your 
bread. 



but break it. 



Don't quarrel at 
table, 

or make grimaoea. 



^ Sitthen to )>o left honde fj neghe ])ou cast ; 
To horn Jou boghe wzt/iouten wrast ' ; 
Take hede to jomon on Jy ryght honde, 
28 And sithen byfore the serene Jou stonde 
% In myddys Je halle opon J)e flore, 

Whille marshalle or vssher come fro J>e dore, 
And bydde the sitte, or to horde the lede. 
32 Be stabulle of chere for menske *, y rede ; 
^ Yf he ])e sette at gentihnonnes horde, 
Loke Jou be hynde • and lytuUe of worde. 
Pare Jy brede and kerue in two, 
36 Tho oner crust po nether fro ; 
^ In fowre J)ou kutt fo ouer dole, 
Sett horn to-gedur as hit where hole ; 
Sithen kutt fo nether crust in thre, 
40 And tz^me hit dowfi, leme pia at me. 
% And lay thy trenchowr J)e be-fore, 
And sitt vp-ry^ht for any sore. 
Spare brede or wyne, drynke or ale, 
44 To thy messe of kochyfi be sett in sale ; 
% Lest men sayne Jou art hougur betefi. 
Or ellis a gloten Jat alle mew wytefl, 
Loke py naylys ben clene in blythe, 
48 Lest Jy felaghe lothe ther-wyth. 

% Byt not on thy brede and lay hit doun, — 
That is no curteyse to vse in towfi ; — 
But breke as myche as pou wylle ete, 
52 The remelant to pore fou shalk lete. 
^ In peese fou ete, and euer eschewe 
To flyte * at horde ; J)at may Je rewe. 
Yf J)ou make mawes * on any wyse, 
66 A velany fou kacches or euer foil rise. 



^ AS. ivrasteriy to writhe, twist. 

' grace, civility ; from AS. mennUe, human ; cp. our doable sense 
oi humanity, H. Coleridge. 

3 courteous. ^ AS.Jlytan, dispute, quarreL 

' Howe, or skome. Vatiffia, vel valgioy eachinna. Promptorium. 



THE SOKE OF GURTASTE (SLOANE, 1986.) 



301 



^ Let neuer fy clieke be Made to grete 
WWi morselle of brede Jat Jou shalle ete ; 
An apys mow men sayne be makes, 
60 })at brede and flessbe in bys cbeke bakes. 
T Yf any man speke fat tyme to tbe, 

And fou scballe onsware, hit wille not be 
But waloande, and a-byde fon most ; 
64 \)at is a scbame for alle tbe bost. 

^ On botbe balfe py moutbe, yf fat fon ete, 
Mony a skome sball^ fon gete. 
\)o\i sballe not lau3be ne speke no fjnge 
68 Wbille pi moutbe be fuUe of mete or diynke ; 
^ Ne suppe not with grete sowndynge 
Nojer potage ne ojer Jyngc. 
Let not fi spone stond in fy dyscbe, 
72 Whefer fon be serued with fleshe or iiscbe ; 
% Ne lay bit not on tby dishe syde, 

But dense hit bonestly witA-outen pride. 
Loke no browynge on fy iyngur fore 
76 Defoule fe clothe J)e be-fore. 
If Li pi dyscbe yf fon wete py brede, 
Loke fer-oi pat nojt be lede 
To cast agayne py dysche in-to ; 
80 J>(7u art vn-hynde yf pou do so. 
^ Drye py moutbe ay wele and fynde 
When pou schalle drynke oper ale or wyne. 
Ne calle pou no3t a dyscbe a-jayne, 
84 \)at ys take fro pe borde in playne; 

^ Jif pou 8p[i]tt ouer the borde, or ell«r opofi, 
J)ou scballe be holden an vncurtayse mon ; 
Yf py nown dogge pou scrape or clawe, 
88 \)at is holden a vyse emong men knawe. 
% Yf py nose pou dense, as may be-falle, 
Loke py honde pou dense, as wythe-alle, 
Priudy with skyrt do hit away, 
92 Ofer ellis thurghe thi tepet pat is so gay. 



[FoL 18.] 
Dou't cram your 
dieeka out with 
food like an apa^ 



for if any one 
should speak to 
you, yon oan't 
answer, but must 
wait. 



Don't eat on both 
sides of your 
mouth. 

Don't laugh with 
your mouth ftill. 



or sup up your 
potsge noisily. 

Don't leave your 
spomi in the dish 
or on its side. 



but dean your 

spoon. 

Let no dirt off 

your Angers soil 

[p. 27, hot.] 
the cloth. 
Don't put into the 
dish bread that 
you have once 
bitten. 



Dry your mouth 
before you drink. 

Don't call for a 
dish once 
removed, 

or spit on the 
table: 
that's rude. 

Don't scratch 
your dog. 

If you blow your 

nose, 

dean your hand ; 

wipe it with your 

skirt or put it 

tiiTough your 

UppeL 



302 



HOW TO BBHATB AT MEALS. 



Don't pick toot 
tfeeth at mMla, 

or drink with ft>od 
in yoor month, 



Mjoamajget 

choked, 

or killed, by its 

■topping yoar 

wind. 

Tell no tale 

to liarm or ihame 

your oompaniooa. 



Don*t stroke the 
eat or dug. 



Don't dirty the 
table cloth with 
yoar knlfii. 

Don't blow on 
yoor food, 

or pat yoar knifb 
In yoar month, 

or wipe your teeth 

LPol. 14.] 
or eyes with the 
table cloth. 
If yon ait by a 
good man, 

don't pat your 
knee under his 
thigh. 

Dop't hand yonr 
cup to any one 
with yonr baok 
towards him. 



Don't lean on 
yoor elbow. 



^ Clense not thi tethe at mete sittande, 
With knyfe ne str^, styk ne wande. 
While Jou lioldes mete in monthe, be war 
96 To drynke, J)at is an-honest * char, 
^ And also fysike for-bedes hit, 
And sais )>oa may be choket at )>at byt ; 
Yf hit go Jy wrang throte into, 
100 And stoppe py wynde, fou art fordo. 
% "Ne telle J)ou nener at borde no tale 
To harme or shame J)y felawe in sale ; 
For if he then wtt^holde his methe •, 
104 Eftsons he wylle forcast fi dethe. 
^ Where-sere J)ou sitt at mete in borde, 
Avoide Je cat at on h&re worde, 
For yf fou stroke cat ofer dogge, 
108 J>ou art lyke an ape tey3ed with a clogge. 
% Also eschewe, wit^-onten stryfe, 

To foule J)e borde clothe wit^ Ji knyfe ; 
Ne blow not on J)y drynke ne mete, 
112 "Nefer for colde, ne])er for hete ; 

If With mete ne bere Jy knyfe to mowthe, 

Whejjer pou be sett be strong or couthe ; 

« 

Ne with po borde clothe Ji tethe J>ou wype, 
116 Ne py nyen J?at rennen rede, as may betyde. 
T Yf fovL sitt by a ryjht good mafl, 
))is lessofi loke )>ou penke apoil : 
Vndur his thejghe J>y kne not pit, 
120 J)ou ar fulle lewed yf Jmi dose hit 
% Ne bacwarde sittande gyf nojt J>y cupe, 
Noper to drynke, noJ?er to suppe ; 
Bidde J)i frende take cuppe and drynke, 
124 ))at is holden an honest thyng. 
% Lene not on elbowe at J>y mete, 
Nofer for colde ne for hete ; 



* an priTatiye, nnhonest. * AS. mod^ mood, passion, yiolence. 



THE BOKB OF GURTASTB (SLOANB, 1986). 



303 



Dip not ])i thombe )>7 diynke into, 
128 })on art vncmtayse yf foM bit do ; 
% In salt saler yf fat )>ou pit 

Ofer fisshe or flesshe )M(t men may wjrt, 
pat is a yyce, as men me telles, 
132 And gret wonder htt most be elles. 
^ After mete wben fou shalt wassbe, 
Spitt not in basyn, ne water ]>ou dassbe ; 
Ke spit not lorely, for no kyn mede, 
136 Be-fore no mon of god for drede. 
^ Wbo so euer despise )»is lessoun ryjt, 
At borde to sitt be base no my^t. 
Here endys now oure fyrst talkyng, 
140 Crist graunt yb alle bis dere blessyng ! 



ordipyoorthamb 
Into yoor drink, 
or your food into 
the nit cellar : 



That It a vice. 



Don't uplt In the 
bastnyoa waahin 

or looMly (?) 
before a man of 
God. 



^ Here enditbf*. fe [first] boke of curtasye. 



THE SECOND BOOK. 



YF tbat pou be a ^ong enfaunt, 
And tbenke )>o scoles for to baunt, 
Tbis lessonn scballe )>y maistvr fe merke, 
144 Croscrist J)e spede in alle J)i werke ; 

Syttben J)y pater noster he wille J>e tecbe. 
As cristes owne postles con precbe ; 
Aftttr J)y Aue mana and Ji crede, 
148 j>&i sballe fe sane at dome of drede ; 
^ Tben af twr to blesse fe wtt^ ]» trinity 
In nomine 'patns tecbe be wille J>e ; 
J)en with marke, matbew, luke, and Ion, 
152 WttA J)e per ctucm and tbe begb name ; 
^ To scbryne ])e in general fan scballe lere 
J)y Confiteor and misereatur in fere. 



ffyoQgoto 
adiool 



yon Shan laam: 
1. Cro« of Christ, 
S. Pater Noster, 



S. Han Mary and 
the Creed, 

4. In the name of 
the Trinity, 

ft. of the Apostles, 



6wtheConflMBioii. 



304 



HOW TO BE&ATE AT CHURCH, TO PABBKTS, ETC. 



Sadr Um kingdom 
of God, and 



wonblp Him. 



AfdrarehfUktt 
holy water; 

pnj for ftU ChrlB- 
tian oompanlom ; 



kneel to Gtod on 
both knees, 

to man only on 
one. 



At the Alter, 
■erre the prieet 
with both banda. 



Speak gently to 
your father and 

[FoL 16.] 
mother, and 
honour them. 



Do to others as 
yon woold they 
shoold do to yocu 



Don't be foolishly 
meek. 



The seed of the 
rlghteoas shall 



never beg or 
be shamed. 



Be ready to 
forgive, 



and fond of peace. 



If yon cannot 
give an asker 
goods, 



To seche pe kyngdam of god, my chylde, 
156 perto y rede pon be not wylde. 

% Ther-fore worschip god, bothe olde aiid ^ong, 
To be in body and soule yliche strongs. 
When pon comes to po cluTche dore, 
160 Take pe haly water stondand on flora ; 
^ Eede or synge or byd prayeris 
To crist, for alle J)y crysten ferys ; 
Be curtayse to god, and knele doun 
164 On bothe knees with grete deuocioun. 
% To mon fou shalle knele opon pe ton, 
pe toper to pj self pou halde alofi. 
When poM ministers at pe heghe autere, 
168 With bothe hondes pon serue Jjo prest in fere, 
J)e ton to stabulld pe toper 
Lest pon fayle, my dere broker. 
% Anoper curtayse y wylle pe teche, 
172 Thy fadur And modur, with mylde speche. 
In worschip and s«rue with alle Jjy myjt, 
\)at pou dwelle ^e lengur in erthely ly^t 
^ To anoper ma» do no more amys 
176 Then po\x woldys be dofi of hym and hys ; 
So crist pon pleses, and gete^ pe loue 
Of men and god pat syttis aboue. 
^ Be not to meke, but in mene pe holde, 
180 For ellis a fole pou. wylle be tolda 
He pat to ry3twysnes wylle enclyne, 
As holy wryjt says vs wele and fyne, 
His sede schalle neue;* go seche hor brede, 
184 Ke suffiir of mon no shames dede. 
^ To for-gyf pou shalle pe hast ; 
To yeniaunce loke pon come on last ; 
Draw pe to pese vriik alle pj strengjye ; 
188 Fro stryf and bate draw pe on lengpe. 
^ Yf mon aske pe good for goddys sake. 
And pe wont thynge wher-of to take, 



THE BOKE OP CURTASTB (SLOANB, 1986). 



305 



Gyf hym boner wordys on fayre manere, 

[ 192 With glad semblaunt ^ and pure good cher. 

^ Also of seruice Jjou shalle be fire 

To euery mow in hya degr6. 

\)a\i schalle neuer lose for to be kyude ; 

196 That on forjetw anofer base in mynde. 

^ Yf Any man baue part -with Jje in gyft, 

With hym pon make an euen skyffc ; 

Let hit not henge in honde for glose, 

200 J)ou art vncnrtayse yf pou. hyt dose. 

% To sayntw yf pou J)y gate base hy3t, 

Thou schalle fulfylle htt vriik alle f y myjt, 

Lest god pe stryk witA grete veniaunce, 

204 And pyt pe in-to sore penaunce. 

% Leue not alle men that speke pe fayre, 

Whejjer pat hit ben comyns, burges, or mayre ; 

In swete wordis pe nedder was closet, 

208 Disseyuaunt euer and mysloset ; 

per-fore povL art of adams blode. 

With wordis be ware, but pOM be wode : 

A schort worde is comynly sothe 

212 j)at fyrst slydes fro mownes tothe. 

% Loke lyjer neuer pat pou. be-come, 

Kepe pjB worde for alle and somme. 

Law^e not to of [t] for no solace, 

216 For no kyn myrthe pat any man mase; 

Who lawes alle pat men may se, 

A schrew or a fole hym semes to be. 

% Thre enmys in J>ys worlde per are, 

220 Jjat coueytefi alle men to for-fare, — 

The deuel, pe flesshe, pe worlde also, 

That wyrkyn mankyude ful mykyl wo : 

Yf pou may strye pen pre enmys, 

224 \)ovL may be secur of heuefk blys. 

% Also, my chylde, a-gaynes fy lorde 

Loke pou stryfe wi't^ no kyn worde, 

20 



^ve him good 
words. 
[> MS. semblunt] 

Be willing to 
help every one. 



Give yoor partner 
his fkir share. 



Go on the pilgrlm- 
ftgee (P) you vow 
to saints, 

lest God take 
vengeance on you. 

Don't believe all 
who speak fair : 



the Serpent spoke 
fair words (to 
Eve). 



Be cautions with 
your words, ex- 
cept when angry. 



Don't lie, bat 
keep yoQT word. 

Don't laugh too 
often, 

or you'll be 
called a shrew or 
afooL 

Man's S enemies 
are: 



the Devil, the 
Flesh, and the 
World. 

Destroy these, and 
be sun of heaven. 



Dont strive with 
yoor lord. 



306 



THE RULE OF GOOD MANNEBS. 



or bet or pUy 
witb hlnu 



[FoLlC] 

In a strange place 

don't be too inqai« 
sitive or fiuey. 



If a man fltlla, 
don't laugh, but 
help him up : 



yoor own head 
may lUl to your 
feet. 

AttheMaai,if 
the prieet doesnt 
pleaaeyoQ, 



don'tblamehim. 

Don't tell yonr 
■oeretstoaahrev. 



Dont beckon, 
point, or wliiiQier, 

When yon meet 
a man, greet him, 

or aniwer him 
cheerily if he 
greet! you: 

don't be dunb^ 



lest men nay yoa 
have no month. 



Never speak im* 
properly of 
womon. 



Ne waiour non wtt7i hym f ou lay, 
228 Ne at fe dyces with hym to play. 
^ Hym that fon knawes of grett^r state, 
Be not hys felaw in rest ne bate. 
3if poll be stad in strange contr^ 
232 Enserche no fyr ])en fallen to the, 
Ke take no more to do on honde, 
pen pou may hafe menske of alle in londe. 
^ ^i£ pou, se any mon fal by strete, 
236 Lawegh^ not pev-at in diye ne wete. 
But helpe hym vp* with aUe pj myjt, 
As seynt Ambrose pe teches Ty3t ; 
\)o\i. that stondys so sure on sete, 
240 Ware lest pj hede falle to pj fete. 
^ My chylde, yf pon stonde at ]k) masse, 
At vndur stondis bothe more and lasso, 
Yf fo prest rede not at pj wylle, 
244 Repraue hym no3t, but holde pe stylle. 
% To any wy^t fy counselle yf pou. schewe. 
Be war pat he be not a schrewe, 
Lest he disclaundyr pe wiiJi tong 
248 Amonge alle men, bothe olde and ^ong. 
T Bekenyng, fynguryng, non pou vse, 
And pryu^ rownyng loke po\x refuse. 
Tf povi mete knyjt, ^omon, or knaue, 
252 Haylys hym a-non, " syre, god jou saue.** 
Yf he speke fyrst opon pe fore, 
Onsware hym gladly withronten mora.* 
% Go not fortha as a dombe freke, 
256 Syn god base laft the tonge to speke ; 
Lest men sey be sibbe or couthe, ' 
** ^ond is a mon wtt^uten mouthe." 
^ Speke neuer vnhonestly of woman kynde, 
260 Ke let hit neuer renne in pj mynde ; 



I to relation or friend. 



THE BOKE OP CURTASYE (SLOANE, 1986). 



307 



J)e boke h3rixi call^ a chorle of cheie, 
That vylany spekes be wemew sere : 
For alle we ben of wymmen borfi, 
264 And onie faduis vs be-forne ; 
periove hit is a vnhonest thyng 
To speke of hem in any hethyng.* 
% Also a wyfe be, falle of lyjt 
268 To worschyp hyr husbonde bothe day and nyjt, 
To his byddyng be obediente, 
And hym to seme withroviten offence, 
% Yf two brether be at 'debate, 
272 Loke nofer fou forper in hor hate, 

But helpe to staunche horn of malice ; 
J)en pon art frende to bothe I-wys. 
T 3if povL go with arnoper at f o gate, 
276 And 30 be bothe of on astate, 

Be curtasye and let hym haue ])e way, 
J Thati8novyliinye,a8me«me8ay; 
And he be comen of gret kynraden, 
280 Go no l>e-fore Jyawgh poxi be beden ; 
And yf Jwt he J>y maystur be, 
Go not be-fore, for curtas^, 
Nojjer in fylde, wode, noper launde, 
284 Ke euen hym withy but he co77imaiinde. 
^ Yf Jjou schalle on pilgr/mage go, 
Be not Jje thiyd felaw for wele ne wo ; 
Thre oxen in plowgh may neu^ wel diawe, 
288 'Noper be crafty lyjt, ne lawe. 
% ^if pou be profert to diynk of cnp, 
Diynke not al of^ ne no way sup ; 
Drynk menskely and gyf agayne, 
292 j>ai is a curtasye, to speke in playne. 
% In bedde yf J)ou falle herberet to be. 
With felawe, maystur, or her degi'6, 



for we and our 
fktbers were all 
bom of women. 



A wire thonld 
honour and obey 
her bueband. 



and serve him. 

Try to reconcile 
brothers if they 
quarrel. 



At a gate, " 
let your equal 
precede you; 



go behind your 
superior 



and yoar master 



unless he bids 
you go beside 
him. 

On a pilgrimage 
don't be Uilrd 
man; 

S oxen can't draw 
a plough. 
[FoL 17.] 

Dont drink all 
that's in a cap 
oflferedyoa; take 
a little. 



If yon sleep 
with any man* ' 
ask what part of 



' contempt, aoorn. O.N. hAtm^, H. Coleridgo. 

20 • 



308 



HOW TO BEHAVE. 



the bed he li1te^ 
and lie far from 
him. 



If yoajoarney 
with any man, 
And out his name^ 
who he i«, where 
he ia gcAng. 



With Man on a 
pilgrimage, do aa 
thqr do. 



IXm'tpatnpata 
red (haired and 
fiioed) manor 
woman'e home. 



Anaweropponenta 
meekly, 



but don't tell liee. 



Before your lc»d 
at table, 

keep yoar handi, 
feet, and 



fingers etilL 



Don't stare about^ 
or at the wall. 



or lean against the 
post. 

Don't pick yoar 
nose. 



povi schalt enquere he curtasye 
296 In what par[t] of Je bedde he wylle lye ; 
Be honest and lye J)ou fer hym fro, 
povL art not wyse but fou do so. 
^ With W080 men, boJ)e fer and negh, 
300 The falle to go, loke fan be slegh 

To aske his nome, and qweche he be, 
Whidur he wille : kepe welle J)e8 thre. 
% With fireies on pilgrimage yf pat poxi go, 
304 J)at Jjei wille 3yme,* wilne Jon also ; * 
Ala on ny3t pou take fy rest, 
And byde pe day as tru maTines gest. 
^ In no kyn house pat rede mon is, 
308 Ne womon of po same colour y-wys, 
Take neu^r py Innes for no kyn nede. 
For pose be folke fat ar to dreda 
% Yf any thurgh stumes pe oppose, 
312 Onswere hym mekely and make hym glose : 
But glosand wordys pat falsed is, 
Forsake, and alle that is omys. 
T Aho yf pou haue a lorde, 
316 And stondes by-fore hym at pe horde. 

While pat pan speke, kepe welle py honde, 
Thy fete also in pece let stonde, 
% His curtase nede he most breke, — 
320 Stin-aunt fyngurs toos whe?^ he shalle speke. 
Be stabulle of chere and sumwhat ly3t, 
Ne ouer alle wayue pon not thy syjt ; 
^ Grsse not on walles with J)y neghe*, 
324 Fyr ne negh, logh ne heghe ; 
Let not pe post be-cuin J)y staf. 
Lest povL be callet a dotct daf ; 
Ne delf pon nener nose thyrle 
328 "With thombe ne fyngur, as jong gyrle ; 



1 AS. ffptnofif attend, regard, observe, keep. * thine eye 



THE BOKE OP CUBTA8YE (SLOANE, 1986). 



309 



T Eob not J)y arme ne no3t hit claw, 
Ne bogh not douw Jjy hede to law ; 
Whil any man spekes wit^ grete besenes, 
332 Herken his wordis wzt^outen distiesse. 
^ By strete or way yf J>ou schalle go, 
Fro Jes two fynges fou kepe ^e fro, 
Noper to harme chylde ne best, 
336 With castyng, tumyng west ne est ; 
Ke chaunge fon not in face coloure, 
For lyghtnes of worde in halle ne boure ; 
Yf fy vysage chaunge for nojt, 
340 Men say Je * trespas Jou base wrojght.' 
^ By-fore fy lorde, ne mawes pou make 
3if pan wylle cuxtasie with J)e take. 
With hondes vnwasshen take nener J)y mete ; 
344 Fro alle pes vices loke pon pe kepe. 
^ Loke paa sytt — and make no stryf — 
Where J)o est* cowmaundys, or ellis po wyl 
Eschewe pe hejest place wiih wyn,* 
348 But pou be beden to sitt J>er-in. 

Of curtasie here endis pe secunde fyt, 
To heuen crist mot oure saules flyt ! 



soratch your arm, 
or stoop your 
head. 

Listen when 
yoa're spoken to. 



Kerer harm child 
or beast with erll 

eye(P) 

Don't blush when 
yoa'n chaflbd, 

or you'll be 
accused of 
mischief. 

Don't make &oea. 



Washbefbre 
eating. 

Sit when the host 

[Fol. 180 
tells yon; avoid 
the highest place 
unless you're told 
to take it. 



THE THTED BOOK. 



352 



If De officiariis in curiis dommomm. o/the offletn in 

Ow speke we wylle of officiers 
Of court, and als of hor mestiers. 
Foure men per be£L pat jerdis schalle Four boar rods; 

1 three wands : 

here, 



N 



1. Porter, the 
longest^ 



Porter, marshalle, stuarde, vsshere ; 
The porter schalle haue pe lengest wande, 
356 The marshalle a schort^ schalle haue in hande ; «• Marshal, 

iReado(< 

* AS. «^», contention, labour, war ; trw, iryw, joy, pleasure. 



310 



OP THE POBTEB, AND MABSHAL OF THE HALL. 



8. Usher, the 

shortest, 

4i Stewsu^], a stafl^ 

a finger thick, half 

a yard long. 



360 



O/tke Potter. 

He ke«pfl the Gate 

and Slocks, 

takes charge of 
mlsdoera 



tUl Judged, 
alsoofclothofl, 



and warns 
Btnuigers. 

He is fonnd tn 
meat and drink. 

On his lord's 
removing, 

he hires horses at 
4d. a piece, 

the statute price. 



Of the Martial 
o/tht HaU. 



The vsslier of chambt^r smallest scballe haue. 
The stuarde in honde schalle haue a stafe, 
A fyngur gret, two whart^wis long, 
To leiile fe meil of court ymong. 



^ De lanitore.^ 

^ The porter falle to kepe ]k> ^ate, 
)>e stokkes wiMi hym erly and late ; 
3if any mafi hase in court mys-gayne, 

364 To port^ waide he schalle bo tane, 
Jjer to Brbyde ^ lordes wylle, 
What he wille deme by ry^twys skylit 
For wesselk clothes, ^at no3t be soldo, 

368 )>e po[r]ter base \at warde in holde. 
Of strangers also ])at comen to court, 
)>o porter scball^ warne eer at a worde. 
Lyueray he base of mete and drynke, 

372 And settw wiUi hym who so hym thynke. 
When so euer J)o lorde remewe scballe 
To castell^ til o\er as hit may falle, 
For cariage ))e porter hors scballe byre, 

376 Foure pens a pece wit^in J)o schyre ; 
Be statut he scballe take Jyat on Jye day, 
J)at is Jje kyng/« crye in faye* 

^ De Marescallo aule.* 

% Now of marschalle of halle wylle I spello,* 
380 And what falle to hys offyce now wylle y telle ; 

' See the duties of Prince Edward's Porters, a.d. 1474, in 
Household OrdinaticeSf p. *30, and of Henry YIII.'s Porten, ibid,, 
p. 239. 

3 Though Edward lY. had Marshals {Household Ordinances, p. 
84, &c,), one of whom made the Sumape when the King was in the 
Hall (p. 32), or Estate in the Sumape (p. 38), yet there is no 
separate heading or allowance for them in the Liber Niger, Two 
yeomen Ushers are mentioned in p. 38, hut the two yeomen Ewars, 
their two Grooms and Page, p. 84, perform (nearly) the duties 
given ahove to the Usher and his Grooms. 

B HS. spckle. 



THE BOK£ OF 0URTA8TE (SLOANB, 1086). 



311 



In absence of stuarde he shalld arest 
Who so euer is tebells in court or fest ; 
3omon-ysshere, and grome also, 

384 Vndur hym ar fes two : 

po grome for fuelle pat schalb brenne 

In halle, chambur, to kechyn, as I ]ye kenne, 

He shallg delyu^ hit ilke a dele, 

388 In hall6 make fyre at yche a mele ; 
Borde, trestuls, and formes also, 
))e cupborde in his warde schalle go, 
pQ dosurs cortines to henge in halle, 

392 poa offices nede do he schalle ; 
Biyng in fyre on alhalawgh day, 
To condulmas euen, I dar welle say. 

^ Ver quantum tempt^^ armigeri ha&ebt^nt liberatam et 

ignis ardehit in sliiIsl, 

So longe squiers lyuar^s shalle hafe,' 
396 Of grome of haUe, or ellis his knafe ; 

But fyre shall^ brenne in hldle at mete, 

To Gena dojmni ]7at men base ete ; 

per browjt schalle be a holyn kene, 
^ 400 pat sett schalle be in erber grene, 

And ^at schalle be to alhalawgh day, 

And of be skyfted, as y ^e say. 

In halle marshalle alle men schalle sett 
404 After here degre, w*t7t-outen lett.* 

> Edward IY.'b Esquien for the Body, IllI, had * for wyntor 
IjTYerey from All Hallowentide (Not. 1) tyU Estyr, one peroher 
wax, one candeU wax, ij candells Paris, one tall wood and dimttf- 
t'lHN, and wages in the countyng^house.' H. Ord, p. 36. So the 
Bannerettes, 1111, or Bacheler Knights (p. 32), who are kerrers 
and cnpherers, take ' for wynter season, from Allhallowentyde till 
Estyr, one tortays, one porcher, ii candelles wax, ii candelles Paris, 
ii talwood, ii faggotts,* and rushes, litter, all the year ; which the 
Esquiers have too. The Percy household allowance of Wax was 
cdiij score vij lb. dimid. of Wax for th' expensys of my House for 
oone hole Tere. Yiz. Sysez, Fryhetta^ Quarions, and Ihrehea after 
ix d. the lb. by estimacion ; p. 12. 

' The Liber Niger of Edw. lY. assigns this duty to one of the 
Oentylmen Usshers. H, Ord, p. 37. 



HeshaUurert 
Kbalfl, when the 
•toward ia away. 
Yeoman-Usher 
and Oroom a.'e 
under him. 

The Qroom geto 
fliel for the fir«^ 



tad makea one in 
Hall tor every 
meal; 

looks after tables 
trestles, forms, 
the oup-board, 
and hangings of 
theHaU. 

Flrae last ftxim 
Allsalnts* Day to 
Candlemas Eve, 
(Nov. 1 to Feb. «.) 
Hcv Umg Squtret 

oiMPS, and Fin 
§kaU1mmiikth» 
Mall, 

and tiios long, 
Sqaires receive 
their daily candle P 
(see L 838.) 



tFoL 19.] 



The Marshal 
shall seat men ia 
theUalL 



312 



OF THE BUTLER AND PANTER. 



0/the Butler. 

Panter, and Oook$ 

tervinffhhn. 

Th^ are the 

Hanhal'g 

BervanUi. 

He Bhall score np 

sll mesflM nerved, 

and order bread 

and ale for men, 



but wine for 
gentlemen. 



Each meee shall 
be reckoned at 6d. 

and be scored up 
to prevent the 
cook's cheating. 



If bread runs 
short, the Marehal 
orders more, ' a 
reward.' 



O/tJUBuOer'M 
dutiea. 

He shall pnt a 
pot and loaf to 
each mesa. 

He is the pantar's 



The Manhal shall 
see to men's 
lodging. 
The Lord's 
Chamber and 
Wardrobe are 
under the Usher 
of the Chamber. 

0/t\a Utkerand 

Oroomaqftkt 

Chamlber. 

1. Usher, 



% De pincemario, panetario, et cocis sibi seraieTitibfi^. 

^ The botelar, pantrer, and cokes also, 
To hjm. ar seruauntw wtt^-onten mo ; 
J)er-fore on his jerde skore shaUe he * 

408 Alle niessys in halle J)at seniet be, 

Commaunde to sett bothe brede and ale 
To alle men J>at seruet ben in sale ; 
% To gentilmen vfi\h wyne I-bake, 

412 EUis fayles J>o seruice, y vnder-take ; 
Iche messe at vj* breue shalle he 
At the countyng house vri\h oJ>er mene ; 
Yf J>o koke wolde say fat were more, 

41 6 \>at is ]70 cause )>at he base hit in skore. 
J)e panter ' also yf he wolde stryfe, 
For rewarde J)at sett schalle be be-lyue. 
When brede faylys at borde aboute, 

420 The marshalla gares sett wtt^-outen doute ; 
More brede, \a\> calde is a rewarde, 
So shalle hit be preuet be-fore stuarde. 

^ De officio pincemary.* 

^ Botler shalle sett for yche a messe 
424 A pot, a lofe, wit^-oute« distresse ; 
Botler, pantrer, felawes ar ay, 
Reken hom to-gedur fulle wel y may. 
The marshalle shalle herber alle men in fere, 
428 That ben of court of any mestere ; 

Saue f e lordys chambt^r, f o wadrop to, 
J^o vssher of chamber schalle tent ]>o two. 

% De hostiario et suis seruientibtw.' 

% Speke I wylle A lytuUe qwyle 
432 Of vssher of chambur, witA-outen gyle. 

> See the Office of Panetry, H. Ord. p. 70. 
3 See the Office of Butler of Englond, H. Ord, p. 73. 
• See Gentylmen Uashera of Chaumbre, IIII, H, (ML p. 37. 
' This name ussber is a worde of Frensbe/ p. 38. 



THE BOKE OF 0URTA8YE (SLOANE, 1986), 

l>er is gentylme?}, jomon-yssher also, 
Two gromes at Jo lest, A page per-to. 

% De Ofl&cio garcibnum.* 

% Glomes palettt^ shyn fyle and make liters,* 

436 ix fote on lengthe w/tA-out diswere ; 
vij fote y-wys hit sballe be brode, 
Wele watered, I-wrythen, be craft y-trode, 
Wyspes drawen out at fete and syde, 
"440 Wele wrethyn and twrnyd a-jayne Jwt tyde ; 
On legb vnsonken hit shalle be made, 
To ])o gurdylstode hegh on lengthe and biade. 
For lordys two beddys schalld be made, 

444 Bothe vtter and inner, so god me glade, 
])at henget shalla be with hole sylot^r,' 
Wit/i crochettw * and loupys sett on lyour ; * 
% J)o valance on fylour® shalle henge with wyn, 

448 iy curteyns 8tre3t drawen wiU-inne, 

J)at reche schalle euen to grounde a-boute, 
Noper more, nojer lease, witAK>uten doute ; 
He strykes hom yp with forket wande, 

452 And lappes vp fast a-boute ])e lyfb hande ; 

' Compare H, Ord. p. 89. * Yeomen of Chambre, IIII, to make 
beddes, to here or hold torchee, to eette boardes, to apparayle all 
ohaumbree, and Bnche other seryyce as the chaumberlayn, or 
nashers of chambre command or asaigne.' liber Niger £dw. lY. 
See also H. Ord, p. 40, Office of Warderobe of Beddes, p. 41, 
Gromes of Cbambyr, X ; and the elaborate directions for making 
Henry VIL's bed, H, Ord, p. 121-2. 

' Soe itram$iUiim, lyttere, p. 260, col. 2 (the straw with which 
the bed was formerly made), Wright's Vocabularies. 

* Sylnre, of yalle, or a nother thpge (sylnre of a walle), Oeh' 
turOf Otlamm, Gatholioon, in P. Panr. Fr. CW, Heauen, pi. Cielt^ 
a canopie for, and, the Testeme and Valances of a Bed. Cotgraye. 
A tester over the beadde, cancpiu, Withals. 

* Qroehet, a small hooke. 

^ Lyowre, to bynde wythe precyows clothys. Zuyatorittm, P. 
Parr. 

* Fylowre, of harbours crafte, AcuteeuU, Jllaruim, P. Parr. 
See note 8, p. 160. 



313 



S. Teomuk-nalier, 

S. Two grooms 
andaPag«. 



Oroonu qfthe 
Chamber. 

Tboy ihall make 
paletsofhtterS 
ft. long, 7 broad, 

watered, twbted, 
trodden, with 
wlspeatfoot 
andeide^ 
twisted and 
tomed back; from 
the flooi^level to 
the waist. 

For lords, S beds, 
oater and Inner, 

hung with 
hangings, 
hooks and eyes 
set on the binding; 
the valanoe hang* 
ing on a rod (P) ; 
Ibor curtains 
reaching to the 
groond; 



these he takes up 
with a forked rod. 



314 



OP THE OBOOKS AKD U8H1BB OP THE CHAMBER 



[Fol. 10.] 

The ooanter|Muie 
It Uid at the fMt, 
coshicMif OD the 
•idee. 

t«peeti7 on the 
floor 

and aldei of the 
Toon* 



The Oroom gets 
fliol, and eoreena. 

The Oroom keepe 

the table, treeaee, 
and forms for 
dimieri 

and water in a 

heater. 

He pttte S wax- 

llghta 

over the ohimney, 

all IndUbnnt 
aycM. 



tntatkbtr walks 
about and sees 
that all b served 
right, 



orders the table 
to be set and 
removed. 



)K> knop yp tumes, and closes on T3r3t, 
% As bolde by nek fat henges fulls ly^t 

j>o counturpynt he lays on beddys fete, 
456 Qwysshenes on sydes shyn lye fulle mete. 

Tapetur * of spayne on flore by syde, 

J>at sprad shyn be for pompe and pryde ; 

po chambur sydes lyjt to ]k) dore, 
460 He henges with tapet/^ fat ben fulld store ; 

And fuel to chymn6 hym falle to gete, 

And serenes in clof to y-saue po hete. 

Fro ^o lorde at mete when he is sett, 
464 Borde, trestuls, and fourmes, wtt^nten let ; 
% AUe thes ]>ynges kepe schalla he, 

And water in chafer for laydyes £re ; 

i\j perchers of wax ^en shalla he f et, 
468 A-boue ^o chymn^ pat be sett, 

In syce * ichofl from ofer shalle be. 

J)e lenghthe of ofer pat men may se, 

To brenne, to voide, pat dronkyn is, 
472 Oper ellis I wote he dose Amys. 

])o vssher alle-way shalle sitt at dore 

At mete, and walke schalle on pe flore, 

To se p&t aHe be seruet on ryjty 
476 )?at is his office be day and nj^t ; 

And byd set horde when tyme schalk be, 

And take hom yp when tyme ses he. 

^ Tapet, a clothe, tappia. PalBgrave, 1530. Ta^m, Tapistrie, 
hangings, ftc., of Arras. Cotgrare, 1611. Ihpisy carpet, a green 
eqnare-plot. Miege> 1684. The hangynges of a house or ohambre, 
in plurali, aukea . . Cireundo cubintlum aulais, to hange the 
chambre. The carpettes, tapetea. Withals. 

> And he (a Qrome of ChambTr) setteth nyghtly, after the 
'Seasons of the yere, torchys, tortays, candylles of wax, mortars ; and 
he setteth up the aiwt in the King's chambre, JT. Ord, p. 41, 
' these torches, five, seven, or nine ; and as many ntea sett upp as 
ihere bee torches,' id. p. 114 ; and dayly iiii other of these gromes, 
called wayters, to make fyras, to sett up tressyls and boordes, with 
yomen of chambre, and to help dresse the beddes of sylke and 
arras. H, Ord. p. 41. 



THE SOKE OF CUBTAStE (SLOANE, 1986). 



315 



T The wardrop ' he herbers and eke of chamber 

480 Ladyes with bedjs of corall^ and hmhur^ 
po Ysshere schalld bydde po T^ardiopere 
Make redy for alle nyjt be-fore Je fere ; 
])en bryngi!^ he forfche nyjt goiin also^ 

484 And spredys a tapet and qwysshens two, 
He layes horn fen opon a founne, 
And foteshete fer-on and hit retume. 
% po lorde schalld skyfb hys gowfl at nyjt, 

488 Syttand on foteshete tyl he be dyjt. 
)9en Yssher gose to fo botr^, 
" Haue in for alle ny3t, syr," says he ; 
Fyrst to fe chaundeler he schalle go, 

492 To take a tortes ly3t hym fro ; 
% Bothe wyne and ale he tase indede, 
j)o botler says, witA-outen drede, 
Ko mete for mon schalle sayed ^ be, 

496 Bot for kynge or prynce or duke so fre ; 
For heiers of paraunce also y-wys. 
Mete shalld be sayed, now thenkys on this. 
pen to pantr6 he hy^es be-lyue, 

SOO^T" Syrs, haue in wft^-outen stryffe ; " 

Manchet and chet ' bred he shalle take, 
)K> pantere assayes ^t hit be bake ; 
A morter of wax jet wille he bryng, 

504 Fro chambur, syr, with-ont lesyng ; 
pat alle nyjt brennes in bassyn clera, 
To saue )>o chamlmr on nyjt for fyre. 
% J)en jomon of chambursh^ime voyde wttA ryme, 

508 The torches han holden wele ]7at tyme ; 

Tho chambt^r dore stekes po Yssher thenne, 
With preket and tortes pat conne brenne ; 

1 'Wardroppe, or c\oaei~~gardero6e. PalBgrave. 

s See the duties of Edward lY/s Sewar, H, Ord, p. 36. 

' Manchet was the fine bread -, chet, the coarse. Fr. pam 
roufet. Cheat, or boulted bread ; houshold bread made of WHieat 
and Rie mingled. Cotgrave. 



takes charge of 
the Wardrobe ami 
Bedchamber, 
bide the Ward- 
m^pergetall 
reail^ before the 

nightgown, 
carpet, 2 cnahiona^ 
aform with a 

footeheet over it ; 
CD which tlie lurd 
cfaaoges his gown. 



The Usher orders 
what's wanted 
from the Buttery x 

a link tram the 
Chandler, 

and ale and wine. 



(No meat shall be 
assayed except 
for King, Prioo^ 
Duke or lleirs- 
apparsnt.) 



From the Pantrj 
the Usher takes 
fine and coarse 



and a wax-light 



that boms all 
night In a basin. 

(The Teoman- 
Usher removes 
the torches.) 

The Usher puts 
lights on the Bed- 
room door, 



316 



OF THE 8TEWABD. 



brings brMid and ^ 

CFoI. M.] 
(the lord washiog 

oflRnv the drink 
knaellng; pate 
hla lord to bed. 



and then goee 
home hlmaelf* 
The Yeoman- 
Uaher Bleeps at 
the Lord's door. 



Fro cup"borde he brynges bothebrede andwynej 
512 And fyrst assay es hit wele a[nd] fyne. 

But fyrst ])e lorde shalk vassbe I-Trys, 

Fro po fyr hous when he comen is ; 

\>en kneles fe vssher and gyfes hym drynke, 
516 Brynges hym in bed where he shaUd wynke ; 

In strong styd on palet he lay, 

At home tase lefe and gose his way ; 

^omon vssher be-fore fe dore, 
520 In vttar chambt^r lies on ]>e flore. 



O/OuSUward. 



Ftowaretme, 
but many false. 
He, the derk, 

cook andsunrejor 

oonsolt orer tlieir 

Lord's dhiner. 

Any dainty that 
eanbehad,the 
^ward bay*. 



Before dishes sre 
put on, the 
Steward enters 
first, then the 
Server. 



The Steward shall 
post into books all 
aooonnts written 
on tablets, 



524 



528 



532 



536 



and add fhem op. 540 



% De seneschallo.* 

% Now speke I wylle of J^o stuarde als, 
Few ar trew, but fele ar * fals. 
J)o Gierke of kechyn, countroUoMr, 
Stuarde, coke, and surueyour, 
Assenten in connseUe, wtt^uten skorne. 
How yo lorde schalle fare at mete ))o mome. 
Yf any deyntethe in countr6 be, 
po stuarde schewes htt to po lorde so &e. 
And gares by hyt for any cost, 
Hit were grete syn and hit were lost. 
Byfore ]>e cours po stuarde comes Jyen, 
pQ seruer htt next of alle kyn men 
Mays way and stondes by syde, 
Tyl alle be serued at J)at tyde. 
At countyng stuarde schalle ben, 
Tylle alle be breuet of wax so grene, 
Wrytten in-to bokes, wtt^ut let, 
)>at be-fore in tabids base ben sett, 
Tyl countes also ])er-on ben cast, 
And somet vp holy at fo last. 



> See the < Stjward of Hoiuliolde,' IT, Ord. p. 55-6 : < He is head 
officer.' » MS. and 



THE BOKS OF CURTABTE (SLOAXS^ YOSe). 



317 



IT De contrarotulatore.* 
% The Couiitioll(mr shalla wryte to hym, 
Taunt resceu, no more I myn ; 
And taunt dispendu fat same day, 
544 Yncountabull£ he is, as y 30U say. 

^ De superuisore.* 

^ Surueour and stuarde also, 
Thes thre folke and no mo. 
For no3t resayuen hot euer sene 

548 \)at no)>yng fayle and alle be whene ; 

t>at po clerke of kechyn schulde not mys, 
per-foTQ ]>o countroUour, as hafe I blys, 
Wrytes vp J>o somme as merj day, 

552 And helpes to count, as I 30U say. 

T De Clerico ooquine.' 
^ The clerke of )>e cochyiL shalle aU^ Jyyng breue, 
\ Of men of court, bothe lothe and leue, 
Of achatiff and dispenses fen wrytes he, 
556 And wages for gromes and 3emen fre ; 
At diessoi^r also he shalle stonde. 
And fett forthe mete dresset wtt^ honde ; 
J)e spicery and store with hym shalla dwelle, 
560 And mony thynges als, as I no3t telle, 
For clethyng of officers aUe in fere, 
Saue ]>e lorde hym self find ladys dere. 

^ De canceUario.^ 

^ The chaunceler answercs for hor clothyng, 
564 For 3ome7^, faukeners, and hor horsyng, 

1 See the " GoTtntroUer of this hooshold royall,' JT. Ord. p. 68-9. 

* Bee the duties and allowances of A Sorveyour for the Kyng, in 
Soutehold 0rdinanee9, p. 87. 

> See the * chyef clerke of kychyn,' t. Edw. IV., JT. Ord, p. 70 ; 
and Henry YIII/s Clerke of the Kitchen, a.d. 1539, f^. p. 235. 

* The duties of the Chauncelior of £nglond are not stated in Edw. 
lY.'s Liber Niger, H. Ord. p. 29 ; hut one of the two Clerkys of 
Orene- Clothe was accustomed to * delyyer the clothinge of hous- 
holdVs-81. 



0/ Mf ControlUf 
Bepatodown tlM 



roflldiM and ooo- 
tamplkm of eveiy 
day. 

0/tt« Airwyor. 



He, tiM ■tewud, 
and oontroUar, r»- 
ceive nothing, but 
■ee that all goea 
atraight. 



The Controller 
checks daily the 
Clerk of the 
kitchen's aocoont. 



O/theOterk^the 
KUehen. 

He shall keep ao- 
coont of all 



pnrrhaiee, and 
payments^ and 



shall preside at 
the Dresser, 

and keep the 
spices, stores, ftc, 

and the clothes of 
the officers. 



0/ (k< CkonceUor. 

He lodes after the 
servants' dothes^ 
andhorssi^ 



318 



OF THE OHANOELLOR AND TREASURER. 



[Fol. tL] 

and gnau of 
land, fto., for life* 
or daring the 
lord'* pleasure. 



He oversees the 
land Uxs and is a 
great man. 



O/Oit 



He takes teem the 
Receiver what ia 
collected fh>m 
bailUTandgrier^ 
ooufts and 
forfeits. 



He gives the 
Kitchen deiic 
money to boy 
provlaloas with, 
and the derfc 
gives some to the 
baker and batler. 



The Treasurer 
pays all wages. 

He^ the Receiver, 
Chancellor, 
Grieves^ Ac,, 



aoooont once a 
year to the 
Aodlior, 



from whom they 
can appeal to a 
Baron of the Bz- 
chequer. 



For his wardrop and wages also ; 

And asseles patently mony and mo ; 

Yf po lords gyf ojt to terme of lyf, 
568 The chauncelor hit seles wit^uten stryf ; 

Tan come nos plerra men seyne, per is guando 
nobis placet, 

pat is, whille vs lykes hym no3t omys ; 

Ouer-se hys londes J)at alle be ryjt : 
572 On of fo grete he is of myjt 

^ De thesaurizario.^ 

^ Kow speke y wylle of tresurere, 

Hosbonde and houswyf he is in fere ; 

Of ]7e resayu^ he shalld resayue, 
676 Alle fat is gedurt of bayl6 and grayue,* 

Of ])e lordes courtes and forfeti9 als, 

Whejjer J)ay ben ryjt or Jay ben fals. 

To ])0 derke of cochen he payes mon6 
580 For vetayle to bye opon Jo countre : 

The clerke to kater and pult^r is, 

To baker and butler bothe y-wys 

Gyffys seluer to bye in alle thyng 
584 J)at longes to here office, wiihrOVLten lesyng. 

pe tresuier schalld gyfe alkyn wage, 

To squyer, jomon, grome, or page. 

Jjo resayuer and J)o tresurer, 
588 po clerke of cochyn and chaunceler, 

Grayuis, and baylys, and parker, 

Schone come to acountes euary ^ere 

By-fore ]>o auditowr of Jo lorde onone, 
592 pat schulde be trew as any stone ; 

Tf he dose horn no ryjt lele, 

To A baion of chekker Jay man hit pele. 

1 See the * Theeanrere of Hoiuholde ' in Edw. lY/s liber Niger, 
ff, Ord. p. 56-8 : * the grete charge of polycy fti^d hosbandry of 
all this hoQshold growyth and etondyth moste part by hys aad and 
dylygent pourreyannoe and conduyteB.' 

* AS. gertfa^ reere, steward, bailiff. 



THE BOKE OF CUBTASYE (SLOANE, 1986). 



319 



% De receptore fimuun^m. 

% Of fe resayuer speke wylle I, 

596 pat fermys* resayuys wyttt^rly 

Of grayuys, and honi aquetons makes, 
Sex pons Jer-fore to feys lie takes. 
And pays feys to parkers als I-wys, 

600 per-of at acountes he loued^ is, 

And ouer-seys castels, maners a-boute, 
pat nojt falle wit^-in ne wtt^ute. 
Now let we pes officers be, 

604 And telle we wylle of smaller men6. 

^ De Auenario.' 

^ pe Aueyner schalle ordeyn prouande* good won, 
For J)o lordys horsis euerychon ; 
Jjay schyn haue two cast* of hay, 

608 A pek of prcmande on a day ; 

Euary horse schalla so muche haue. 

At racke and mangar pat standes vnih stane. 

A maystt^r of horsys a squyer* per is, 

612 Aueyner and ferowr vndwr hym I-wys ; 
pOBQ ^omen pot olde sadels schyn haue, 
pat schyn be last for knyjt and knaue, 
For yche a hors pat ferronre ^ schalle scho, 

616 An halpeny on day he takes hym to ; 






He gives receiptiy 

•ndgetsafteof 

6d. 

Ue ]MiyB fees to 

park-keepen, and 

look! after caetlea 

andraanop* 

houaea. 



0/(h« Avtner. 

He Bhall give the 
honee in the . 
stable 

two annsftd of ' 
hay and a peck of 
oats, daily. 



ASqinirelfl 
Vaster of the 
Horse; nnder 
him are Avener 
and Farrier, 



(the FaiTier has 
ahaU^tennyaday 
for every horse he 
shoes,) 



1 Bents, in kind or money ; A3, feorme, food, goods. 
' Or loned. 

* The Arener of Edw. lY. is mentioned in H. Ord, p. 69. See 
the Chaiig^ of Henry VIIL's Stable, a.d. 1526, t;^. p. 206-7. 

^ Pronender or menglid come— fovrraige . . provend$, Palsgraye. 
» See ' two cati of brede,' 1. 631. < One caste of brede' for the 
Steward's yeoman, ff. Ord, p. 56, &c. 

* Mayeter of the hones — etevier de etevirie. Palsg. 

' See Rogers's Agriculture and Pricet in England, t. 1, p. 280-1. 
The latest prices he gives for shoeing are in 1400 ; ** Alton Barnes, 
Shoeing 5 horses, a year, Os. 8d. Takley, Shoeing 2 cart horses 
[a year] Is. 8d.*' a.d. 1466, * fore shoyinge ij.d.' Mannen and 
Soueehold Expeneea (ed. Dawson Turner), 1841, p. 380. (Sir Jn. 
Howard, Ent., 1462-0.) The Percy allowance in 1512 was ** ij s. 



320 



OF THB BAKEB AND HUNTSKAN. 



ttnd sroonu and 
pigwhind 

at Bd. a daj, 
or 8 fkithlngt, 
[FoL ».] 

and footm«n who 
ran by ladles' 
bridles. 



O/tke 



Out of a Londoa 
buahel he shall 
baksM loaves, 
Una and ooarsa. 



Yndur ben gromes and pages mony one, 
psi ben at wage euerychone ; 
Som at two pons on a day, 
620 And som at i\j ob., I 30U say ; 
Mony of hem fote-men per ben, 
pat rennen by ^e biydels of ladys sbena 

^ De pistope.* 

% Of J)o baker now speke y wylle, 
624 And wat longes his office yntylle ; 
Of a liinden buschelle he shalld bake 
XX louys, I vndur-take ; 
Manchet and chet to make brom ' bred hard, 
628 For chaundeler and grehoundes and huntes 
reward. 



o/tke 

tmd kii Houmdt, 

He geU a half- 
panny a day for 
t?ery hoand. 

The Fentarer S 
lots of bread If he 
has 2 lessh of 
Oreyhonnds, and 
a bone for each. 



besides perqnUltes 
of skins, Ac 



^ De venatore et suis canibii^. 

% A halpeny fo hunte takes on fe day 

For euary hounde, ])o sothe to say : 

po vewier, two cast of brede he tase, 
632 Two lesshe of grehoundes yf pat he hase ; 

To yche a bone, ^at is to telle, 

If I to 30U pe sothe shalle spelle ; 

By-syde hys vantage pat may be-faUe, 
636 Of skynnes and oper thyngos w/tA-alle, 

pat hunt^es con telle better ]}a7i I, 

jjer-fore I leue htt wytt[wr]ly. 

viiij d. every Hon Shoynge for the hole Yere by estimacion, Vis. a 
Hon to be shodd oons in iij moneths withowt they jomay." p. 24. 
A hone's daily allowance was < a Peck of Oats, or 4d. in Brmde 
after iiij Loiffes, 4d. for ProTaonder, from 29th Septr. 8 Hen. Till, 
to 8rd May following,' p. 266. 

1 See £dw. IV. 's Office of Bakehouse, IT. Ord. p. 68-70. * The 
sergeaont of thys office to make continually of every busshell, halfe 
chiete halfe rounde, besydes the flowre for the Eingea mouthe, xxvii 
loves, every one weying, after one daye olde, zxiii ounces of troye 
weyghtea.' p. 69. 

' £ead broun, brown. 



THE SOKE OF CURTASYE (SLOANE, IQSfi). 



321 



^ De aquario.' 

^ And speke I wylle of ofer mystery 
640 pat falles to conit, as je mun here ; 
An euwere in halle ])ere nedys'to be, 
And chandolew schalle haue and alle napere ; 
He schalle gef water to gentilmen, 
f 644 And als in alle ^omen. 

^ Qui deZ^nt manus lauare et in quorum domib;^. 

^ In kynges court and dukes also, 
per 3omen schynne wasshe and no mo ; — 
In duke lonys house a ^omaTZ fer was, 

648 For his rewarde prayde suche a grace ; 
pe duke gete graunt yer-oi in londe, 
Of Jje kyng his fader, I vnduduistonde. — (so) 
Wosoeuer gefes water in lordys chaiinber, 

652 In presens of lorde or leuede dere, 

He schalle knele downe opofi his kne, 

Ellys he for^etes his curtase ; 

pia euwer schalle hele his lordes borde, 

656 With dowbulle napere at on bare worde : 
The seluage to ]70 lordes syde with-inne, 
And doufi schalle heng fat o]}er may wynne ; 
jpo ou^r nape schalle dowbulle be layde, 

660 To ^o vttur syde pe seluage brade ; 
))o ouer seluage he schalle replye,* 
As towelle htt were fayrest in hye ; 
Browers' he schalle cast ]}er-opon, 

664 pat pQ lorde schulle dense his fyngers [on], 
pe leuedy and whoseuer syttes witA-inne, 
AUe browers schynne haue bothe more and mytL 

I In Edward the Fourth's Court, * Knyghts of Household, XII, 
baehelers sufficiant, and most valient men of that ordre of every 
countrey ' had ' to serve the King of his hason.' H, Ord, p. 33. 

' Biplier, To redouble, to bow, fould, or plait into many 
doublings. Cotgrave. 

3 Napkins ? 0. Fr. bnttroi is hruyin^ heath. 

21 



Of the Ewereror 
Wattr-bringer. 



He has all the 
candlea and doihs, 

and gives water to 
ereiy one. 



Whomayweuh 
MakaHdtt tmdl 
when. 



The bringer of 
Water 



shall kneel down. 



The Ewerer shall 
cover the lord's 
Uble with a 
doable clothp the 
lower with the 
eelvage to the 
lord's side; *he 
upper cloth shall 
be bid double. 



the upper selvain 
tamed back as if 
for a towel. 



He shall pat on 
deanersfor 
every one. 



322 



OP THE PANTER, TUB LORD^S KNIVES, ETC. 



O/tkePanter. 

He carriefl 8 
loftTM cut square 
Am: trenchen, 



and the covered 
Saltcellar, 
[Fol.24.] 



t Carving-knlvee, 
and wU the Srd, 
andaapooii tohls 
lord. 

O/tkeLordT* 
Knives, {Bread, 
and Washing.) 
The hafts of Sara 
laid outwards, 
that of the 3rd 
inwards, and the 
•teel spoon by it. 
More trencher 
loaves are set, and 
wine served to the 
Duchess. 



2 Trencher-loaves, 
and salt, to the 
lord's son ; and 1 
loaf and saltcellar 
set at the end of 
the table. 

Then S loaves of 
white bread ara 
brought, and 1 
coarse loaf is pat 
in the Alms-dish. 



To assay bread, 
the Panter kneels, 
the Carver cute 
him a slice, 

and he eats it. 

The Ewerer 
strains water into 
his basins, 

on the upper one 
ofwhichisatowel 



^ De panetario. 

^ ])enne oomes J)e pantere with loues thre, 
668 J)at square are coruyn of trenchottr fre, 
To sett w/t/t-inne and oon wit/t-oute, 
And sailer y-coueryd and sett in route ; 
W^'t^ ^o ouemast lofe h/t shalle be sett, 
672 W/tA-oute forthe square, witA-oute» lett ; 
Two keruyng knyfes wtt/t-oute one, 
J)e thrydde to fo lorde, and als a spono. 

^ De CultcUis doynini. 

^ Of ))o two f o haftes schynne outwarde be, 
676 Of J)e thrydd ^e hafte inwarde lays he, 

pe spony stele fer by schalle be layde ; 

Moo loues of trenchirres at a brayde 

He settes, and seruys euyr in fer<} 
680 To duches his wyne )»at is so dere. 

Two loues of trenchors and salt ])q, 

He settes be-fore his son also ; 

A lofe of trenchoz^Tis and salt on last, 
684 At hordes ende he settes in hast. 

J>en brede he biynges, in towell<3 wrythyfi, 

Thre lofys of Jjo wyte schalld be geuyn ; 

A chet lofe to ^o elmys dyshe, 
688 Weper he seruyd be wit^ flesshe or fysche ; 

At BLper ende he castes a cope, 

Layde dowa on horde, Je endys plyed vp. 

That he assayes knelande on kne, 
693 J>o keruer hym paiys a schyuer so fre ; 

And touches J)0 louys jn querc a-boute, 

|>o pantere hit etys wtt^ute dowte ; 

po euwere thurgh towellfl syles * clene, 
696 His wat^ into )>o bassynges shene ; 

J^ ouer bassyn per-on schalle close, 

A towelle J)er-on, as I suppose, 

^ ? Do. eifffen (door em zifU ofU Stramijn), to mnne (through a 
Sift or a Strainer.), een Suyle a Pale or a Water-pale. Hexham. 



n 



THE BOKE OP CURTASTB (SLOANE, 1986). 

pat folden schalle be wttA fulle grete lore, 
700 Two quarters on lenketh^ and sumdele more ; 

A qwyte cuppe of tre per-hj shalle be, 

per-wiih po water assay schalle be ; 

Qnelmes * hit agayn by-fore alle men ; 
704 jjo keruer f e bassynges tase vp ^enne ; 

Annaunciande sqt^ier, or eUis a knyjt, 

Jjo towelle down tase by fulle good ryjt ; 

]}o cuppe he tase in honde also, 
708 Jjo keruer powres wat[er] pe cuppe into ; 

The knyjt to po keruer haldes anon, 

He says hit ar he more schaUe doii ; 

po cuppe pen voyde is in J)o flette,* 
712 J3e euwer hit takes w/t^oute» lette. 

The towelle two knyjbtw schyn halde in fere. 

Be-fore pe lordes sleues, fat ben so dere ; 

The ouer bassyn fay halde neuer pQ queder, 
716 Quylle fo keruer powre water in-to pe nedwr. 

For a pype Jjer is insyde so clene, 

pat water deuoydes, of seluer schene ; 

J>en settes he pe nethyr, I vnd[u]rstonde, 
720 In pe ouer, and voydes mth bothe is honde ; 

And brynges to pe euwer per he come fro ; 

To fo lordys hordes ajayn con go ; 

And layes iiij trenchowrs Jo lorde be-fore, 
724 pe fyft aboue by good lore ; 

By hym self thre schalle he dresse, 

To cut opon pe lordes messe ; 

Smale towelle a-boute his necke shalle beQe, 
728 To clens his knyfys Jat ben go kene. 

^ De Elemosinario.* 

^ The aumenere by pis hathe sayde grace, 
And Jyo almes dysshe h^e sett in place ; 

* corera. *Ojjt (juelrajd or ouer hyllyde. Obvolutus.* P. 
Parr, ' A,S.Jktty room, hall. 

3 See The Almonry of Henry VIII. a.d. 1626, IT. Ord, p. 154, 
and p. 144; a.p. 1539, Jf, Ord. p. 239. 

21 • 



323 



folded dodgit J. 



Then the water 
is aasAyed in a 
cup of white wood. 



The Carver takes 
up the basins ; a 
knight takes down 
the towel, and 
wipes the cup, into 
which the Carver 
pours water; the 



knight hands it to 
bim ; he assays it, 
and empties tha 
cup 



Two knights hold 
thfl towel before 
the lord's sleeves, 
and hold the 
upper basi.! while 
the Carver pours 
water into the 
lower; 



then he puts the 

lower into the 

upper,and empties 

both, 

takes* them to the 

Ewerer, returns to 

the lord's ^ble, 

lays 4 trenchers 

for him, with 1 

nbove. 

The Carver takes 

S to cut the 

lord's messes on, 

[FoL 25.] 
and has a cloth 
round his neck to 
>ripe his knives 
on. 

0/the Almoner. 

He iays grace, 
sets down the 
AlmS'dish, and 



324 



OP THE ALMONER AND DISH-SERVER, 



the Carver pats 
the drat loaf in it. 



The other loarea 
lie pares roand. 



cnts one in two, 
and gives the 
upper half in 
halves to htm. 
The Almoner has 
a staff in his 
hand. 

He keeps the 
broken food and 
wine left, for poor 
men at the gate. 



and is sworn to 
give it all to them. 

He distributes 
silver as he rides. 



Of the Sewer {or 

9«tUr-onqf 

Diahea). 



The Cook assays 
the meat before 
it's dished. 
The Sewer pats 
the cover on it, 

and the cover 
must never be 
raised 

for fear of 

treason. 

(A Dodge: Hthe 

silver dish burns 

you, 

put bits of bread 
under it.) 



The Sewer assays 
all the food : 



J)cr-iii ]}e keruer a lofe scballe sette, 
732 To serue god fyrst witA-outen letjie ; 

Jjese ofer lofes he parys a-boute, 

Lays hit myd dysshe wzt/t-outen doute. 

J)e smallfi lofe he cuttw eiien in twynne, 
736 ))o ouer dole in two lays to hym. 

The aumenere a rod schalle haue in honde. 

As office for almes; y vndurstonde. 

Alle fe broken met he kepys y wate, 
740 To dele to pore men at fe jate, 

And drynke ]}at leues s^rued in halle ] 

Of ryche and pore bothe grete and smalle. 

He is sworne to ouer-se J)e semis wele, 
744 And dele hit to J)e pore euery dele ; 

Seiner he deles rydand by way ; 

And his almys dysshe, as I 30U say, 

To Jje porest maw fat he can fynde, 
748 Ofer ellys I wot he is vnkynde. 

^ De ferculario. 

% This wyle f o squyer to kechyn shalle go, 

And brjmges a bof for assay J)o ; 

\>o Coke assayes f e mete vngry3t, 
752 ]>o sewer he takes and kouers on ryjt ; 

Wo so euer he takes fat mete to here, 

Schalle not so hardy fo couertoure rere, 

For colde ne bote, I wame 30U alle, 
756 For suspecyon of tresourc as may befalle. 

Yf J)o syluer dysshe wylle algate brenne, 

A sotelte I wylle f e kenne, 

Take fe bredde coniyn and lay by-twene, 
760 And kepe f e welle hit be not sene ; 
If I teche hit for no curtayse. 

But for fyn ese. 

When J)e scAver comys vnto J)e horde, 
764 Alio fe mete he sayes at on bare worde, 



THE BOKE OP CURT AS YE (sLOANE, 1986). 



Jje potage fyrst with brede y-coruyn, 
Couerys horn agayn lest fey ben storuyn ; 
Wit/i fysshe or flessh yf [they] be scnied, 

768 A morselle fer-of shalle he be keruyd ; 
And touche f e messe oner alle aboute, 
Jjo sewer hit etia wit/i-outew doute. 
With baken mete yf he scruyd be fo, 

772 J)o lydes vp-rered or he fyr go, 

jje past or pye he sayes witA-inne, 

Dippes bredde in graue no more ne mynne ; 

3if pe baken mete be colde, as may byfalle, 

776 A gobet of J)o self he sayes witA-all^. 
But fou pat berys mete in hande, 
Yf J)o sewer stonde, loke po\x stande ; 
Yf he knele, knele fou so longe for o^t, 

780 ^ Tylle mete be sayde pat pan base broght. 
As oft at hegh borde yf bredo be nedc, 
The butler two louys takys indede ; 
]9at on settes down, pat o)?er agayn 

784 He barys to cupborde in towelle playn. 
As oft as pe kerucr fettys drynke, 
Jjo butler assayes hit how good hym thynke ; 
In pe lordys cupp pat leuys vndrynken, 

788 Into pe almesdisshe hit schalla be sonkcn. 
The keruer anon wit/i-outen thoujt, 
ynkouey-s pe cup fat he base broujt ; 
Into pe couertoure wyn he powres owt, 

792 Or in-to a spare pece, wit7i-oute7* doute ; 
Assayes, an gefes f o lorde to drynke, 
Or settes hit doun as hym goode thynke. 
J?o keruer ' schalle kerue fo lordes mote, 

^ Edward lY. had < Bannerettes, IIII, or Bacheler Knights, 
to be kerrers and capberers in his Courte.' * The kerver at the 
boarde, after the King is passed it, may chese for h ymself one dyshe 
or two, that plentie is among. . . Theis kervers and cupbcrers . . 
them nedeth to be well spede in teking of degree in (he aeJuUe of 
urbanytie,^ JJ, Ord, p. 32-3. 



potag« with a 
piece of bread ; 

flefa or fleih, he 
eataapiece; 



baked meaU hot, 
he llfta up the 
cnut. 



and dips bread in 
the grary ; 
bake«l meats cold, 
he eats a bit. 

The meat-bearer 
stands or kneels 
as the Sewer does 



[Fol. 86.] 



When bread is 
wanted, the 
Butler pals one 
loaf on the table, 
the other on the 
cupboard. 

The Butler assays 
all lbs wine. 

What is left in 
the lord's cup 
goes to the Alins- 
dish. 

The Canrer Alls 
the empty ouij^ 



assays it, and 

gives it the lord 
or pots it down. 

He carves the 
lord's meat. 



326 



OF TH£ CARVER, SURNAPE-LAYER8, AND CHANDLEtt. 



and Uya It on hla 
tranch«r, 



putting a piece of 
every thing in the 
Alnuhdiflh, 



•xoepiany 
fiivourite piece or 
potage Bent to a 
■traoger. 

(To say more 
aboat the Carver 
would require 
another M»ction, 
■o I pass it over.) 



After dinner the 
Sewer brings the 
Samape, a broad 
towel and a 
narrow, and slldM 
it down. 

The Usher takes 
one end of tlie 
broad, the 
Almoner tlie 
other, and when 
it is laid, 
he folds the 
Harrow tow;*l 
double before hia 
lord and lady. 

After grace 
removes Uiem, 

lays the table on 
the floor, and 
takes away the 
trestles. 



796 Of what kpi pece fat he wylle eto ; 

And on hys trenchour he hit layes, 

On fys maner w/t^-out displayes ; 

In abnesdysshe he layes yche dele, 
800 pat he is vrith servLod at po mele ; 

But he sende hit to ony strongere, 

A pese fat is hym leue and dere, 

And send hys potage also, 
804 ]>at schalle not to )>e almes go. 

Of kenier more, yf I shulde telle, 

Anoper fytt fenne most 1 spelle, 

Ther-fore I let hit here oner passe, 
808 To make oure talkyng summedelasse. 

When fe lorde hase eten, f o seWer schalle bryng 

po sumape on his schulder bryng, 

A ilarew towell^, a brode be-syde, 
8i2 And of hys hondes he lettes hit slyde ; 

Jje vssher ledes pat on bed ry^t, 

po aumoner J)o ofer away shalle dyjt. 

When J)0 vssher conlys to fe bordo cnde, 
816 Jjo narow towelle he strecches vnkende ; 

Be-forc Jo lorde and fe lady so dere, 

DowheHo he playes f o towolle pere ; 

Wlienne fay haue wasshen and grace is sayde, 
820 Away he takes at a brayde ; 

Awoydes fo horde in-to fo flore, 

Taso away fo trest?'^ fat ben so store. 

*|| l)e candelario.* 

% Now speke I wylle a lytuU^ whylo 
824 Of f o chandeler, w*t/i-oute« gyle, 



> 



* See the 'Office of Chaundlerye/ JT. Ord, p. 82-3. Twna 
Candles, torches, morters, tortayes, sizes, and smalle lightcs, are 
mentioned there. 



THE BOKB OF CUBTASVB (sLOANE, 1986). 



327 



pat torches* and tortes* and preketes* con make, 

Perchours/ smale condel, I vnder-take ; 

Of wax JJese candels alle fat bremie», 
828 And morter of wax fat I wele kenne 3 

Jjo snof of horn doao arway 

W/t/i close sesours, as J 30W say ; 

})e sesours ben schort and rownde y-close, 
832 With plate of ime vp-on bose. 

In chAmhur no lyjt f er shalle be brent, 

Bot of wax J)er-to, yf je take tent ; 

In halle at soper schalle caldels (so) btcnne 
836 Of parys, pef-m pat alle nien kenne ; 

Iche messe a candclk fro alhalawgb^ day 

To candelmesse, as I 30U say ; 

Of candel liueray squiyers schalle haue, 
840 So long, if hit is nlon wilk kraiie. 

Of brede and ale also po botelet 

Schalle make lyiiere thiiTghK)ut pe 3^rd 

To squyers, and also Wyn to knyjt, 
844 Or ellys he dose not his office ryjt. 

Here endys the thi*yd speche. 

Of alia oure synnes cryst be ouro leche. 

And bryng vs to his vonyng place ! 
848 Amen, sayes je, for hys grete grace 1 

% Amen, par charite. 



He can nutlre all 
kinds of candlei, 
little and big. 



and mortan of 

wax. 

He snoflh them 

with short 

acissore. 



In bed-ohatnbera 
wax lights only 
slukU be burnt ; 

[Fol. «7.] 
in hall, Candles of 
Paris, 

each mess having 
one firom Nov. I 
to Feb. 2 (see I. 
895), and squires 
one too. 



'the Butler shall 
give Squires their 
daily bread and 
ale all the year, 
and Knights their 
wine. 



May Clirlst bring 
us to His dwell- 
ing-place. Amen! 



1 Torcbe. Cfreus. P. Parr. 

> } same as toriayesy p. 314, note^; p. 826, n. 

* Pryket, of a candylstykke, or other lyke. Sti^Of P. Parr. 
Candlesticks (says Mr Way) in ancient times were not fashioned 
with nozzles, bnt with long spikes or pryketa, . . (See wood cut at 
the end of this hook.) In the Memoriale of Henry, prior of 
Canterbury, a.I). 1285, the \Atm.prikeU denotes, not the candlestick^ 
bnt the candle, formed with a corresponding cavity at one end, 
whereby it was securely fixed upon the spike, p. 418, n. 1. Henry 
VIII.'s allowance ' unto our right dere and welbilovede the Lady 
Lucy,' July 16, 1538, included ' at our Chaundryo barr, in Wynter, 
every night oou prehei and fonre syses of Waxe, with eight Candells 
white lights, and oon Torche.' Orig, Leitert^ ed. lillis, Series I., 
▼ol. XL p. 31. ^ See note *, p. 311. 



328 



^^p- §tmtkBh Ponst^olb Statutes. 

[Sloane MS. 1986, p. 193, ab. 1450-60. Th^. lad page 
mentions the Y^th year of Henry F/.] 



INcipiunt statuta familie bone Memoiie dompni 
Eoberti Grossetesty Imcolnie G^seopL 



AQMnrante 
■hoald Mrve truly 
Ctod and their 
Master; 



VLerfdcuhis 

doing folly all 
that their Master 
orders, 



without answer- 
ing. 

2t» 



The upper serr- 
ants must be 
honest and 
diligent^ 

3«* 



andengi^no 
nntrusty or 
nnfiti 



iv. 

Dishonest, 



LEt alle men be warned pat semen joii, and wamyng 
be jeue to alle me» that be of howseholde, to 
eenie god and jon trewly & diligently and to perfonn- 
yng, or the wyllyng of god to be performed and fulfyll- 
ydde. Fyrst let semauntw doo pcrfytely in alle thyngi^ 
youre "wylle, and kepe they joure eommaundementi^ 
after god and ry^thwysnesse, and wtt/i-outo condicioil 
and also wtt^-oute gref or offense. And sey 30, that be 
pnncipalle heuede or prelate to alle ^oure seruaunti^ 
bothe lesse and more, that they doo fully, reedyly, and 
treuly, wtt^-oute offense or ayenseyng, alle yonre wille 
& co77tmaundement that is not ayeynys god. T the 
secnnde ys, that 30 commaunde them that kepe and 
haue kepyng of ^oore howseholde, a-fore joure meynye, 
that bothe witfe-in and mt^-onte the meynye be trewe, 
honest, diligent, bothe chast and profitabulle. ^ the 
thrydde : commaunde ye that nomafi be admittyd in 
30ure howseholde, nother inwarde nother vtwarde, but 
hit be trustyd and leuyd that je be trewe and dili- 
gent, and namely to that office to the whiche he is 
admyttyd ; Also Jat ho be of goode maners If The 
fowrethe : be hit sow3ht and examined ofbe tymys yf ther 
be ony vntrewman, vnkunnyng, vnhonest, lecherous. 



BP. GROSSETBST^S HOUSEHOLD STATUTES. 329 

stryflFulle, drunke*lewe, vnprofitabulle, yf there be ony [• p. 194] 
suche yfimde or diifamytlde vppon these thyngi«, that SuSen wrrmu 
they be caste oute or put fro the howseholde. f The ^ ** *""** 
fyft : commaunde je that in no wyse be in the howse- v. au most be of 
holde men debatefuUe or stiyffulle, but that alle be of *"*"*»'*• 
ooii a-corde, of oofi wylle, euen lyke as in them ys oon 
mynde and oon sowle. % The sixte : commaunde ^e vi. 
that allfi tho that seruen in ony offyce be obedient, and obedient to thow 

'' ^ ' above them, 

redy, to them that be a-bofe them in thyngts that per- 

teynyll to there office. ^ The seuenthe : commaunde ▼**• 

je that joure gentHmen yomen and other, dayly here 

and were there robis in joure presence, and namely at dre«" in Uveiy, • 

the mete, for joure worshyppe, and not oolde robis and 

not cordyng to the lyuerey, nother were they oolde Jhoee^ ^*"** 

schoon ne fylyd. ^ The viij : Commatmde 30 that ^^• 

jcure almys be kepyd, & not sende not to boys and order your Aim* 

knafis, nother in the haUe nothe oute of pe halle, ne be 

wasted in soperys ne dyners of gromys, but wysely, 

temperatly, wit^ute bate or betyng, be hit distribute given to the poor 

and the[n] departyd to powre meii, beggers, syke folke 

and febulle. IF The ix. : Make ^e aoure owne howse- *«• Make aii the 

" ^ ^ hoosehold dine 

holde to sytte in the alle, as muche as ye mow or may, together in the 

at the bordis of oon parte and of the other parte, and 

lette them sitte to-gedur as mony as may, not here 

fowre and thre there : and when youre chef maynye be 

sett, then alia gromys may* entre, sitte, And ryse ^ C* p- i**] 

n MR Ml •% 
The X. : Streytly for-bede je that no wyfe ' be at joure x. Let no woman 

mete. And sytte je euer in the myddul of the hye **"•''*'*'?"»• 
borde, that youre fysegge and chere be schewyd to 
alle me& of bothe partyes, and that 30 may see ly3htly Let the Master 
the seruict9 and defawti^: and diligently see 30 that au. 
euery day in 30ure mete seson be two men ordeyned to 
ouer-se youre mayny, and of that they shaUe drede 30U 
\ The xi : commaunde 3e, and yeue . licence as lytul xl 
tyme as ye may wit/t honeste to them that be in ^oure. , 

•'•'•' / Let your servanu 

howseholde, to go home. And whenne 30 yeue licence go to their home*. 



330 BP. grossbtest'b household statutes. 

to theTn, Assigne je to them a short day of comyng a 

yejme vndur peyne of lesyng there seniice. And yf 

D^'t iiow***^ ony mail speke ayen or be worthe,' say to hym, " what ! 

gramUing. wille ye be lorde 1 ye wylle fat y seme you after ^oure 

wylle. " and they that wylle not here that 30 say, 

effectually be they ywamyd, and ye shaUe prouide 

other semsLniis the whiche shalle seme you to youre 

xiL Trti yonr wyllo or plesyng. ^ The xy is : command the panytrere 

Batier to come to vrith youie brede, & the botelare with wyne and ale, 

g^, *^* come to-gedur afore jou at the tabulle afore gracys, 

And let be there thre yomen assigned to seme the hye 

tabiUle and the two syde tabulL's in solenne dayes ; 

Tell off three ^ And ley they not the vessels deseruynff for ale and 

yeomeotowaitat ^ J ^ •' © 

table. wyne vppon the tabulle,* but afore you, But be thay 

xiiL layid vnder pe tabulle. If The 13 : commaunde ye the 

Tell the steward stywarde bat he be besy and diligent to kepe the 

to keep good order . . j j ^ j j 

In the Hall, maynye m hys owne persone mwarde and vtwarde, and 
namely in the halle and at mete, that they be-haue 
them selfe honestly, withroxxt stiyjQfe, fowlespekyng, 
and noyse ; And that they that be ordeynyd to setto 

and serve erery messys, bryng them be ordre and cowtinuelly tyl alle 

[I MS. aflbodori] be semed, and not inordinatly, And thorow affeccion ^ 
to p^rsonys or by specialte ; And take ^e hede to this 
tyl messys be folly sett in the halle, and after tende ye 

xiv. Have your to ^oure metto. ^ The xii\j : cc?mmaunde ^e ^at youre 
dysshe be welle fyllyd and hepid, and namely of 
entermes, and of pitance wit/K)ute fat, carkyng that ^e 

that you may help may parte coureteysly to thoo that sitte beside, bothe 

otherstoiC "^ ^ "^ "^ ^ 

of the lyght hande and the left, thorow alle the hie 
tabulle, and to other as plesythe you, thow^ght they 
haue of the same that ye haue. At the soper be 
semanttff semid of oon messe, & by3th raetiSy & after of 
chesa ^ And yf the[r] come gestw, seruice schalle be 
XV. Always admu haued as nedy the. % The xv : commaunde ye the 

your special "^ " •' 

firienda, officers that they admitte youre knowlechyd men, 

familiers frendys, and strangers, vfOh mcry chore, the 



BF. GROSSETSST's HOUSEHOLD STATUTES. 331 

wh[i]che they knowen you to -mile for to admitte and 

receyue, and to them the whiche wylle you worschipe, 

and* they wyllefl to do that ye wylle to do, that they ^^^lowSem 

may know them selfe to haue be welcome to lou, and youwegi^t© 

to be welle plesyd that they be coma % And al so 

mucha as )e may wM-oute pml of sykenes & werynys 

ete }e in the halle afore ^oure meyny, % For that 

schalld be to' 90U profyte and worshippe. % The xvj : xvi. 

when youre ballyfs comyn a-fore jouite, speke to thew your Bauiih, ^ 

fayre and gentilly in opyil place, and not in prtuey, 

^ And shew them meiy cher^ & serche and axe of 

them *' how fare owre men & tenauntur, & how corny s ^^ ^^ y««" 

t«nuiU and storo 

doon, & cartw, and of owre store how hit ys mwltiplyed." do. 

Axe suche thyngw openly, and knowe 30 certeynly that 

they wille the more drede jou. % The xvij : co7?i- xvit aiiow no 

maunde je that dineris and sopers prtuely in hid plase oniyth<M«itiHaiL 

be not had, & be thay forbeden that there be no suche 

dyn^rs nother sopeis oute of the halle, For of suche 

comethe grete destr[u]ccion, and no Worshippe therby 

growythe to the lorde. 

^ Expliciunt Statuta Familie bone Memorie. 



Prof. Brewer has, I find, printed these Statuta in his most 
interesting and valuable Monummta FranetMina, 1858, p. 582-6. 
He differs from Mr Brock and me in reading drunkeUtoe (drunken, 
in Chaucer, ftc.) as * dninke, lewe,' and ve$sel$ as * bossels/ and 
in adding « 's ^ to some final g *s. He says, by way of Intro- 
duction, that, '* Though entitled Ordinances for the Household 
of Bishop Grostete, this is CTidently a letter addressed to the 
Bishop on the management of his Household by some Yeij 
intimate friend. From the terms used in the Letter, it is 
clear that the writer must have been on confidential terms with 
the Prelate. I cannot affirm positively that the writer was 
Adam de Marisco, although to no other would this document be 
attributed with gpreater probability. No one else enjoyed such a 
degree of Grostete's afifection ; none would have ventured to address 
him with so much familiarity. Besides, the references made more 
than once by Adam de Marisco in his letters to the management of 
the Bishop's household, g^reatlv strengthen this supposition. See 
pp. 160, 170 {Mon. jPr0fictje.)» ^he Mo. is a small quarto on veUnm, 
in the writing of the 15th century. It is in all probability a trans- 
lation from a Latin original.'* 

I lu this he is probably ri|i^ht. The general oiistom of editom justifii^s 
it. Our printers want a pig-tailod or curly g to oorrespund Wiih the 
MS. one. 



332 



Nrr«r miitrnst or 
fkil your friend. 



Don't talk too 
much. 



Spare year 
UMter's goods 
M your own. 



A UwlMt yoath, 
a desplud old 
ago. 



A Gentleman saya 
the beet he can of 
eveiy one. 



Stanzas anb (Dcuplels of Coanstl. 

[From the Rawlinson MS., C. 86,/<?Z. 31, in the 

Bodleian Library.^ 

Vtter thy langage wyth good aviseinent ; 
Beule the by^Reasoun in thy termo3 alle ; 
Mystmste not thy frende for non« accusement, 
4 Fayle him neuer at nede, what so ener befalle ; 
Solace pi selfe when menn to sporte ])eo calle ; 
Largely to speke he wele ware for fat cause ; 
Rolle faste this reasoun So thynke wele on yis 
clause. 

8 What man/z fon seruyst, alle wey him drede ; 
His good as pyfi owne, euer J>ou spare. 
Lette neuer Jy wylle Jy witt ouer lede, 
But be glad of euery mannys welfare. 

12 Folus lade polys ; wisemenn ete Je fysshe ; 

Wisemenw hath in per hondis ofte fat folys 
after wysshe. 

Who so in youthe no vertu vsith, 
In age alle honour him refusith. . 

16 Deame pee best in euery doute 
Tyl pe trouthe be tryed oute. 

It is pe properte of A gentilmann 
To say the beste pat he cann. 

20 Si viej dolere tua cnmina die miserere 
Permiserere mei frangitur ira dei 



[FoUowa : — Policronica. 
Josephus of lewes \>at Nobyl was, the firste Aucto«r of 
the booke of Polieromca, &c.] 



I 



site Ijttol^ 

4 ®#iie, and toli^ 4 

goflb ^mxtm fat t^Btortn, ani 

j0ttt^ ta Uam tfetgr ktit bj, 

^itotlj ptrnftlr, tffrmttlr, 

ani aaptntti bj l^e 

fjrft Jlttttottr 

F. S. [eager] 



SHH^ a britfe btdaracion of t^t 
btttit of u^e btgrtt. 



Anno. 1557. 



Difpife not councel, rebuking foly 
Efteme it as, nedefull and holy. 



t Imprmtcb at Itonbow hi faults 
i^rtfegarbe at t^t fijjta of 
l^t itbgtfeoggt bj 
SSgUgam Starts. 



1 THE AUCTOURS NAME IN VERDYT. 




C Aye well some wyll by this my labour 

*^ Euery man yet Wyll not say the same 

Amonge the good I doubt not fauour 

God them forgeue For it me blame 

Eche man I wyshe It shall oifende 

Eeade and then iudge Where £Eiulte is amende. 



Face aut Tace. 



335 



CONTENTS. 



{Tcikenfrom the headings in the Text,) 



PAOS 

The momynge prayer , ^ . . , . . . . . . , 337 

Cap. i. Howe to order thy selfe when thou rysest, and in 

apparelynge thy body 338 

Cap. ii. Howe to behaue thy selfe in going by the streate 

and in the schoole 339 

Cap. iiL Howe to behaue thi selfe in seruynge the table . . 341 

Cap. iiii. Howe to order thy selfe syttynge at the table . . 343 

Cap. V. Howe to order thy selfe in the Churche . . . . 345 

Cap. yL The fruites of gamynge, yertue and leamynge . . 346 

Cap. vii. Hqw to behaue thy selfe in taulkynge with any 

man ■• .. .. .. •• •• v4i 

Cap. viii. How to order thy selfe being sente of message . . 348 

Cap. iz. A-gainste Anger, Enuie, and malice 348 

Cap. X. The fruites of charitio, loue, and pacience . . . . 349 

Cap. xi. A-gainge (so) the horrible vice of swearynge . . 350 

Cap. xii. A-gainste the vice of filthy talkynge . . . . 351 

Cap. ziiL A-gainste the vice of lyinge 351 

A praier to be saide when thou goest to bedde . . . . 352 

The dutie of eche degred. (so) brefely declared 353 



336 



[N.B. The even lines (2, 4, &c.) of the original are printed here opposite 
the odd ones (1, 3, &c.), instead of after them, to save space. The lines 
must therefore be read right across the page. The sidenotes in large 
type, <Gato, Isocra, &c./ are those of the originaL The rest are the 
editor's, and he lias added headlines, some stops, &c.] 



C|e scjaole of bertiK. 



Thirst in the momynge 
"^ To God for his grace 
This prayer folowynge 
Thy harte lyftynge vp ; 



when thou dost awake 



[idgn. A. ii.] 
First, 

thy peticion then make ; "v thia 

prayer: 

vse dayly to say, 

Thus begyn to pray : 8 



T The momynge prayer. 



it 



O 



God, from whom 
To thee we re- 
payre 
That with thy grace 
Vertue to folowe 
Heare this our request, 
O lorde ! moste humbly 
This day vs defende, 
May do the thynge 
That as we in yeares 
So in good vertues 
To thy honour, 
Leaminge to lyue well. 

In flyinge from all 
Applyinge our bookes, 
May fructifye and go for- 

warde 
In this vale of miserie 
That after this lyf e 
We may attayne 
The Lordes prayer then 
So vsynge to do 



al good gifts procede ! « o ood i 



12 



enable m to 
follow virtue. 



in tyme of our nede, 
thou wouldst vs endue 
and vyce to exchue : 
and graunt our desyre, 
we do the requyre I 
that we walkynge aryght 
acceptable in thy syght, 
And body do growe, 26 
we may lykewyse flowe 
and ioy of our parentes, 
and kepe thy commaund- 
mentes ; 32 

Vice, synne, and cryme, flee ftom vio^, 
not losynge our tyme, 36 



16 



20 [ilgn. A. U. b.2 



Defend as thia 
day. 



Let m aboond 
with viitues. 



here in good doynge 

vnto oure lyuees endynge, 

here transitory 

to greater glory." 44 

se thou recyte, 

at momynge and nyght. 



and go forward in 
good doing to our 
live'aend." 



Caign. A. Ul.] 



Repeat the Lord'a 
Prayer night and 
morning. 



22 



338 



HOW TO RISE AND DBE8S IN THE MOBNINQ. 



How to voQMk amd 
dreu your$e{f. 



T Howe to Older thy eelfe when thou lysest, 
and in appareljnge thy body. 

Capitulo .i. 



Cato. 

Don't deep too 
long. 



Rise early; 
[atffn.A.liL5.] 



CMt np yoor bed. 



and don't let it 
lie. 



Oodown, 

■elate yonr 
p«urents, 

wash yoar hande, 
oomb your head, 

brush jour cap 
and pa( It on. 
[sign. A. Uii.] 

Cato. 



Tie on jonr ehirt- 
collar, 

tistenyoor girdle^ 

rub your 
breechee, clean 
your ehoee, 
wipe your noee on 
a n^;>kiii, 

pare your nails, 
dean your ears, 
wash your teeth. 
[A. sign. iUl. 5.] 
Have your torn 
clothes mended, 

or new ones 
obtained. 

Get your satchell 
and books, and 
haste to School, 



T^Lye euer slouthe 
-*- In health the body 
Muche slepe ingendeieth 
It dulles the the wyt 
Early in the momynge 
Thy payment put on, 
To cast vp thy bed 
Els may they say 
So to departe 
It is not semynge 
Downe from thy chamber 
Thy parentes salute thou. 
Thy handos se thou washe, 
And of thy rayment 
Thy cappe fayre bruaht, 
Takynge it of 
Cato doth councel thee 
Declarynge therby 
Thy shyrte coler fast 
Comely thy rayment 
Thy gyrdell about 
Thy hose fayre rubd 
A napkyn se that 
Thy nose to dense 
Thy nayles, yf nede be, 
Thyne eares kepe cleane, 
If ought about thee 
Thy irendes therof shewe 
And they wyll newe 
Or the olde mende, 
This done, thy setchell . 
And to the scole 



and ouer much slepe ; 50 
therby thou shalte kepe. 
diseases and payne, 54 
and hurteth the brayna 
thy bed then forsake^ 58 
thy selfe redy make. 
It shalbe thy parte, 62 
that beastly thou art ; 
and let the same lye, 6Q 
nor yet manerly. 
when thou shalte go, 70 
and the feunely also ; 
and thy hed keame, 74 
se tome be no seame; 
thy hed couer than, 78 
In speakynge to any man. 
thyne elders to reuerence 
thy dutye and obedience, 
to thy necke knyt ; 86 
loke on thy body syt. 
thy wast then fasten, 90 
thy showes se be cleane. 
thou haue in redines 94 
from all fylthynes. 
se that thou payre ; 98 
thy teath waahe thou fayre. 
chaunce to be tome, 102 
howe it is wome, 
for thee prouyde, 106 

In tyme beinge spyde^ 
and thy bokes take, 110 
haste see thou make. 



p. bbagbr's schoolb op vertue. 



339 



But ere thou go, 
That thou take with thee 
For these are thynges 
Forget not then 
The souldiar prepaiynge 
Leaues not at home 
'No more shulde a scoler 
what he at scole 
These thynges thus had, 
Vnto the schole 



with thy selfe forthynke. taking too 

pen, paper, and ynke ;1 16 p«°» p*p«'» "»* 

for thy study necessaiy, 

with thee them to caiy. 

hym selfe to the fielde 122 

his sworde and his shielde, 

forget then truly 126 

shulde nede to occupy. 

Take strayght thy way 

without any stay. 132 



which are neoos* 
■ary 



[tlgn. A. v.] 

jR>r nseatsehooL 
ThenBtartofll 



Howe to behaue thy selfe in going by 
the streate and in the schoole .IL 



TN goynge by the way 
•*■ Thy cappe put of, 
In geuynge the way ; 
It is a poynte 
And thy way fortune 
Let it not greue thee 
when to the schole 
This rule note well 
Thy master there beynge, 
Declarynge thereby 
Thy felowes salute 
Lest of inhumanitie 
Vnto thy place 
Streight go thou to, 
Thy bokes take out, 
Humbly* thy selfe 
Therein takynge payne, 
Leamynge to get 
All thynges seme harde 
But labour and diligence 
we ought not to recken 
That bryngeth ioye 
Leaue of then laboure, 



and passynge the strete, 
Salute those ye mete ; 136 
to suche as passe by, 
of siuUitie. 140 

so for to fall, 

thy felowes to call 144 
thou shalte resort, 
I do the exhort : 148 

Salute with all reuerence, 
thy dutye and obedience ; 
In token of loue, 154 

they shall thee reproue. 
appoynted for to syt, 168 
and thy setchel vnknyt, 
thy lesson then learne 162 
Behaue and goueme. 
with all thyne industry 
thyboke well applye : 168 
when we do begyn, 
yet both them wyn ; 172 
and coumpt the thyng harde 
and pleasure afberwarde ; 
and the lacke rue, 178 



Sow to behave 

goinQ tOt and at, 

SekooL 

Take off your cap 

to those you 

meet; 

Isocra. 
Cato. 

give way to 
passers by. 
{' Csign. A. V. d.] 
Call your play- 
mates on your 
road. 
▲t School 



salate yoar 
master, 

and the sdiolars. 



Go straight 
to your place, 
undo your 
satchell, 
take out yoar 
1 lOrig. Haoblyl 

[sign. A. vt] 
books and learn 
your lesson; 
stick well to yoar 
books. 



VugiL 



If yon don't worki 



22 • 



340 



HOW TO BEHAVE IN SCHOOL AND STREET. 



yoa'U repent it 

wlien you grow 

up. 

Who coald now 

■peak of fiuaoos 

[■Ign. A. t1. b.] 
deed! of old, 
had not Letters 
praiervod them P 

Cato. 

Cicero. 

Cato. 

Aristot 

Work hard then, 

[sign. A tU.] 

and you'll be 
tliought 
worthy to lerre 
the itate. 
D Oriif. ryme] 

Men of low birth 
win honour by 
Learning^ 



and then are 
doubly happy. 
When you doubt, 
aak to be told. 

[sign. A. viL b.2 



Wish well to 

those who warn 

yon. 

Onyourw^y 

home 

walk two and two 

orderly 

(for which men 
will praise you); 



Lament and repent 

Deades that desenied 

Buiied had ben, 

If letters had not then 

The truth of snche thynges 

Applye thy minde 

For leamynge in nede 

Nothinge to science 

The swetenes wherof 

And Cato the wyse 

That man w«uitinge learn- 

The rootes of leamynge 
The fruites at last 
Then labour for leamynge 
The ignoraunt to teache, 
So shalte thou be thought 
The common welth to serue 
Experience doth teache 
That many to honour 
That were of byrthe 
Suche is the goodnes 
For he that to honour 
Is double happy, 
K doubte thou doest, 
"No shame is to leame, 
Ignoraunce doth cause 
Forwantynge of knowledge 
Then leame to disceme 
And suche as thee wame, 
when from the schoole 
Or orderly then go ye, 
your selues matchynge 
That men it seynge 
In commendynge this 
wliiche must nedes sounde 



when age doth insue. 180 
Fame and greate prayse, 
we se in olde dayes ; 184 
brought them to lyght 
who collide nowe resyght ? 
to leamynge and scyence, 
wyll be thy defence. 192 
compare we may well, 
all thynges doth excelL 
this worthy sayinge hath, 

is as the image of death, 
most bytter we deme ; 202 
Mostepleasaunt doth seme, 
whyle here thou shalt lyue, 
and good example geue ; 
A membre most worthy 
Intyme' of necessitie. 212 
And shewe to thee playne 
By leaminge attayne 216 
But symple and bace, — 
Of Gods speciall grace, — 
by vertue doth ryse, 222 
and counted most wyse. 
Desyre to be toulde, 226 
Beinge neuer so oulde ; 
Great errors in vs 230 
Doubts to discusse ; 
the good from the yll, 234 
Bere them good will, 
ye shall take your waye, 
twoo in aray, 240 

So equall as ye may, 
May well of you saye 244 
your laudable wayes, 
to your great prayse, 248 



F. SBAGEB^S SCHOOLE OF VEBTUE. 



341 



Not rannynge on heapes 
As at this day 
Not vsynge, but refusynge, 
As commonly are vsed 
As hoopynge and halow- 

ynge 
That men it heaiynge 
This foolyshnes forsake, 
And leame to follows 
In goynge by the way 
Gape not nor gase not 
But soberly go ye 
Humblye your seines 
Be free of cappe 
Greate loue of al men 
Be lowly and gentyll 
Then men con not 
In passynge the strete 
Vse thou fewe wordes, 
Then men shal see 
From whom vertues 
when thou arte come 

Thy leaue then takynge 
The house then entrynge, 
Humbly salute them 



as a swanne of bees, 
Euery man it nowe sees ; •» 
Suche foolyshe toyes 254 
In these dayes of boyes, 

as in huntynge the foxe, 
Deryde them with mockes. 
this folly exchewynge, 
this order insuynge. 264 
Neyther talke nor iangle, 
at euery newe fangle, 268 
with countinaunce graue ; 
towarde all men behaue ; 
and full of curtesye ; 274 
you shall wyn therby. 
and of meke moode ; 278 
but of you say good. 
Do no man no harme ; 282 
and thy tounge charme, 
that grace in the groweth 
So aboundantly floweth. 
where thy parentes do 
dwell, 290 

Byd thy felowes farewell ; 
In thy parence presence 
with all reuerence. 296 



don't ran In 
heaps like a 
swarm of bees 

[sign. A- viii.] 
like boys do now. 

Don't whoop 
or hallow as in 
fox-hunting ; 



don't chatter, 

or stare at every 
new fkuigle, 
but walk soberly, 

Isocra. 

[sign. A. ylii. b."] 
taking your cap 
off to all, 

and being gentle. 



Do uq man harm ; 
speak few words. 



On reaching home 



salnte joar 
parents rever- 
enUy. 

[sign. B. i.] 



^ Howe to behaue thi selfe in seruynge 
the table. Cap. ilL 



How to umU at 
table. 



TTVhenthyparentesdowne to the table shall syt, 
Y In place be ready For the purpose moste fy t : ^^ yonrporents 

With sober countinaunce Lokynge them in the face, Jntheface. 

*> ^ ' hold up your 

Thy handes holdynge vp, this begyn grace : 304 ^^^ and say 



" /^ Eue thankes to God with one accorde 
^ For that shall be Set on this borde. 



Grace before 
308 meate. 



342 



HOW TO 8EBVE AT DINNER. 



Gmcobefom 
Meat. 



[sign. D. L b.] 



Make a loir 

curtesy: 

wish your 

parento' food may 

do 'ezn good. 

If you are big 

enough, 

bring the food to 

toble. 

[3ign. B. U.] 

Don't fill dishes 
■o fall as to spill 
them 

on your pareq^* 
dress, or they'll 
be angry. 

Hare spare 
trenchers ready 
for guests. 



See there's plenty 
of everything 
wanted. 

Empty the 
Voiders often. 

[sign. B. li. 6.1 
Be at hand if any 
one calls. 
When the meat 
is over, 
dear the table : 

1. eover the salt^ 

2. have a tray hj 
you to cany 
things off on. 



S. put the 
trenchers, fto., in 
Voider. 



And be not carefiill 
To eche thynge Ijruyngo 
For foode lie wyll not 
But wyll you f ede, 
Take well in worth 
At this tyme be 

% So tieatablie speakyng 
That the hearers therof 
Grace beynge sayde, 
Sayinge " muche good 
Of stature then 
It shall become thee 
In bnngynge to it 
For thy parence vpon 
Disshes with measure 
Els mayste thou happen 
On theyr apparell 
whiche for to doe 
Spare trenchers with nap- 

kyns 
To serue afterwarde, 
Be circumspecte ; 
Of necessary thynges 
As breade and drynke. 
The voyders with bones 
At hande be ready, 
To fetche or take vp, 
when they haue done, 
The table vp fayre 
Fyrste the saulte 
Hauynge by thee 
thynges from thy handes 
That from the table 
A voyder vpon 
The trenchers and napkyns 



what to eate, 
the Lorde sends meate ; 
Se you peryshe, 314 

Foster, and cheryshe ; 
what he hath sent, 318 
therwith content, 
Piaysynge God." 322 

as possible thou can, 
May thee vnderstan. 326 
Lowe cursie make thou, 
May it do you." 330 

yf thou be able, 
to serue the table 334 
Suche meate as shall nede 
that tyme to fede. 338 
thou oughtest to fyll, 
thy seruyce to spyll 342 
Or els on the cloth, 
wolde moue them to wroth. 

haue in redynes 348 

If there come any gesse. 
see nothynge do wante ; 
that there be no skant^ 354 
se there be plentie ; 
Ofte se thou emptie. 358 
If any do call, 
If ought fortune to falL 
then ready make 364 

In order to take : 
Se that thou couer, 368 
Eyther one or other 
then to conuaye 372 

thou shalt take awaye. 
the table then haue, 370 
therein to receaue ; 



F. seageb's schoole of vebtue. 



343 



The croomes with a napkyn 
It at the tables ende 
Then before eche man 
The best fyrate seruynge, 
Then cheese with finiite 
With Bisketes or Caro- 

wayes, 
Wyne to them fyll, 
But wyne is metest, 
Then on the table 
It for to voyde 

Eche syde of the clothe 
Foldynge it vp, 
A cleane towell then 
The towell wantynge, 
The bason and ewer 
In place connenient 
when thou shalt see 
The ewer take vp, 
In powrynge out water 
The table then voyde 
All thynges thus done^ 
Before the table 



together them swepe, 380 
In a voyder them kepe. 
A cleane treanchour lay, 
As iudge thou soone may ; 
On the table set, 388 



4. tweep the 
cmmlM into 

[sign. B. ill.] 
uiother, 

5. 8et a dean 
trendier before 
every one, 

6. pat on Cheese^ 
Fmlt, BiscoUe, 
and 



As you may get. 
Els ale or beare ; 392 

If any there were. 
Attende with all diligence, 
when done haue thy 
parence : 398 

Do thou toume in, 
At the hygher ende begin. 
On the table spreade, — 
the cloth take in steade, — 
to the table then brynge, 
theyr pleasure abydynge. 
them redy to washe, 412 
and be not to rashe 
More then wyU suffise. 416 
that they may ryse. 
forget not thy dutie, 420 
Make thou lowe cursie. 



^ Howe to order thy selfe syttynge at the table. 

Capitulo .iiii 

A Chyldren ! geue eare your duties to leame, 424 



7. tervo Wine, 
(Ale or Beer.) 

Wlien these are 
finished, 
clear the table. 



and fold Qp the 
cloth. 



[siffn. B. iii. h.] 
Then spread a 
dean towel, 

bring bason and 

Jug, 

and when yonr 

parents 

are ready to wash. 



poor oat the 

water. 

Clear the table ; 



make a low 
Cttrts^^. 

[sign. B. llilj 
How to behave <U 
your own dimter. 



^ Howe at the table 

Presume not to hyghe. 
In syttynge downe, 
Suffer eche man 
For that is & poynte 
when they are serued, 
For that is a sygne 



you may your selues 

goueme. 
I say, in no case ; 428 Socra. Cato. 
to thy betters geue place. 
Fyrste serued to be^ 432 
Of good curtesie. 
then pause a space, 436 
of nourture and grace. 



Let your betters 
sit above yon. 
See others served 
first, 



then wait a while 
befioreeaUng. 



3U 



HOW TO BEHAVE AT ONE'b OWN DINNER. 



Take salt with 
your knife, 
[sign. B. UiL b.2 
cat yoor bread, 
don't All your 
■poon too fuU, 

wntp your 
pottage. 

Have your knife 
aharp. 



Don't smack your 

llpa 

or gnaw your 

bonea: 

avoid toch 

beaatlinaBa. 

[sign. B. v.] 
Ksep your fingers 
dean, 

wipe your mouth 
before drinking. 



Plato. 

Don't Jabber or 
stuff. 



Cicero. 



Silence hurts no 
one, 
[sign. B. V. b.] 

Isocra. 

and is fitted for a 
child at table. 

Cato. 



Don't pick your 

teeth, 

or spit too much. 



Behare properly. 

Don't laugh too 
much. 



[sign. B. TiJ 
Learn all the 
good manners 
you can. 



Saulte with thy knyfe 
The breade cut fayre, 
Thy spone with pottage 
For fylynge the cloth. 
For rudnes it is 
Or speake to any, 
Thy knyfe se he sharpe 
Thy mouth not to full 
Not smackynge thy lyppes, 
Kor gnawynge the bones 
Suche rudenes abhorre, 
At the table behaue 
Thy fyngers se cleane 
Hauynge a Napkyn 
Thy mouth therwith 
The cup to drynke , 
Let not thy tongue 
And of no matter 
Temper thy tongue 
For " measure is treasure," 
And measure in althynges 
what is without measure 
For silence kepynge 
where as thy speache 
Bothe speache and silence 
But sylence is metest 
And Cato doth saye, 
The fyrsto of vertue 
Pyke not thy teethe 
"Nor Yse at thy meate 
this rudnes of youth 
thy selfe manerly 
If occasion of laughter 
Beware that thou vse 
Of good maners learne 
It wyll thee preferre 



then reache and take, 440 
And do not it breake. 
to fuU do not fyll, 444 
If thou fortune to spyll, 
thy pottage to sup, 448 
his head in the cup. 
to cut fayre thy meate ; 
when thou dost eate ; 454 
As comonly do hogges, 
As it were dogges ; 468 
Suche beastlynes fUle, 
thy selfe manerly. 462 
that thou euer kepe, 
thereon them to wype j 
Cleane do thou make, 468 
In hande yf thou take, 
At the table walke, 472 
Neyther reason nor talke. 
and belly alway, 47G 

the prouerbe doth say. 
Is to be vsed ; 480 

Ought to be refused, 
thou shalt not be shent, 
May cause thee repent, 
are commendable, 488 
In a chylde at the table, 
that '' in olde and yonge 
Is to kepe thy tonge." 494 
at the table syttynge, 
Ouer muche spytynge ; 
Is to be abhorde ; 500 
Behaue at the horde, 
at the table thou se, 504 
the same moderately. 
So muche as thou can ; 
when thou art a man. 510 



F. SEAGfiB B 80H00LE OF YEBTUE. 



345 



Aristotle the Philosopher 
That '^ maneis in a chylde 
then playnge on instru- 

mentes 
For yertuous manors 
Let not this saynge 
For playngeof instnunentes 
But doth graunt them 
Yet'maners muche more 
Befuse not his councell, 
To vertue and knowledge 



this worthy sayinge writ, Aristot. 
are more requisit 514 Th«y '^ J»t*« 

"^ than playing th« 

flddlflb 

and other vayne pleasure ; 
Isamost precious treasure." 
In no wyse thee offende, though that's 

no ham. 

He doth not discommende, 

for a chylde necessary, imtnaceMary; 

see here he doth vary. 526 yetmannan 

T^T , . 1 5 • • ■'• more 

In or his wordes dispise ; important. 
By them mayste thou ryse, [sign. b. vi. 5.] 



^ Howe to order thy selfe in the Churche. 

Cap. .V. 

TTVhen to the Churche thou shalt repayer, 532 



Hew to behave at 
Cfmnh, 



V 



Knelynge or standynge, to Grod make thy prayer ; 



All worldely matters 
Earnestly prayinge, 
A contrite harte 
whiche he doth coumpt 
To hym thy sinnes 
Afikynge for them 
He is the Phisition 
And can to health 
Aske then in fayth, 
The thynges ye desyre 
So they he lawfiill 
He wyll the heare 
More mercifull he is 
The aucthor and geuer 
** All ye that laboure 
I wyll you refreshe 
These are Chrystes wordes. 
Spoken to all suche 
Our wylles to his worde 
The heauenly habytacion 



From thy mynde set apart, 
to God lyfte vp thy hart. 
He wyll not dispyse, 540 
A sweete sacrifice, 
shewe and confesse, 544 
Grace and forgyuenes ; 
that knoweth thy sore, 
A-gayne thee restore. 550 
"Not doubtynge to haue ; 
ye shall then receaue ; 554 
Of God to requyre, 
and graunt thy desyre ; 
then pen can expresse, 560 
here of all goodnesse. 
and burdened be, 564 

In commynge to me." 
the scripture is playne, 
as here suffre payne ; 570 
then let ts £rame, 
therby we may clame. 574 



Pray knoeling or 
■landing. 



PsaLL 



Confeu jooTBins 
toOod. 



[rign. B. vii.] 
He knowa yoor 



lames the .i. 

Ask In fidth, 
and what you 
aakyooahall 
hare; 



He ia more 
merclfU than 
penoantelL 



Math. 



[sign. B. Til. 6.] 



846 

Behave nicely In 
(Aurch, 

and don't talk 
or chatter. 

Behave revere 
enUy; 

the Home of 
Prayer 

Luke .xix. 

[sign. B. vUiJ 
Is not to be made 
afikir. 



AGAINST GAMING, AND 

In the chnrche comly 
In vsage sober, 
whyle you be there, 
Not one with an other 
Beuerently thy selfe 
when to the Churche 
Eche thynge hath his tyme, 
For that is a token 
The Lorde doth call it 
And not to be vsed 



FOB VIRTUiS. 

thy selfe do behaue, 
thy countinaunoe graue. 
taulke of no matter, 580 
whisper nor chatter. 
Order alwaye 684 

thou shalt come to pray : 
Consyder the place, 588 
of vertue and grace, 
the house of prayer 692 
As is a fayer. 



% The fruites of gamynge, vertue and leamynge. 

Capitulo .vL 



Avoid 



dicing and 
carding. 

Cicero. 

Delight in 
Knovrledge, 
Yirtae, and 
Learning. 

[sign. B. viil. 5.] 



Happy Is he who 
cultivates Virtoe. 



Carsod Is ho who 
forsakes it. 



Let reason mle 
you, 

[sign. C. L] 
and subdue your 
lusts. 

These Ills come 
tnm gambling : 



A Lytle chylde, 
^ For that hath brought 
As dysynge, and cardynge, 
which many vndoeth 
But yf tliou delyght 
Delyght in knowledge, 
For leamynge wyll leade 

thee 
And vertue wyll teache thee 
Vice beynge subdued, 
Happy is the man 
By knowledge lykewyse 
By vertue agayne 
These be the frutes 
Cursed is he then 
But we erre in wyt 
In iudgynge that good 
Let reason thee rule, 
To folowe thy fansie, 
But subdue thy luste, 
K it shall moue thee 
For what hurte by game 
No wyse man I thynke 



Eschewe thou euergame, — 
Many one to shame, — 598 
And suche other playes, 
as we se nowe a dayes. 602 
In any earthly thynge, 
Vertue, and leamynge, 606 

to the schoole of vertue, 
Vice to subdue. 610 

thou canst not but fioryshe; 
that vertue doth norysh. 
thou shaltdoubtesdisceme, 
thy lyfe well goueme. 618 
By them we do take, 
that doth them forsake. 
In folowynge our wyll, 
which playnly is ylL 626 
and not will thee leade 
A wronge trace to treade. 
and conqeur thy wyll 632 
to doe that is yll ; 
to many doth grow©, 636 
but doth it well knowe. 



F« seaoer'b schools of vertue. 



347 



Experience doth ahewe 
That all good men 
As strife and debate, 
whiche amonge christians, 
'With cursynge and bann- 

ynge, 
That no honest harte 
These be the froites 
with many more as euill 



and make it manifeste 640 
can it but deteste, 
minder and thefte, 
wolde god were lef te, 



^44 >tiire, murder. 



coning and 
swearing. 



withsweaiyng and tearyng, 

can abyde the hearyng : 

that of them doth sprynge, 

that Cometh of gamynge. [sign. c. i. 5J 



^ How to behaue thy selfe in taulkynge 



with any man. 

IF a man demaunde 
In thine aunswere mak- 
ynge 
waie well his wordes, 
Eare an answere to make 
Els may he iudge 
To answere to a thynge 
Suffer his tale 
Then speake thou mayst. 
Low obeisaunce makyng, 
Tretably speaking, 
with countinaunce sober 
Thy fete iuste to-gether, 
Caste not thyne eies 
when thou arte praised^ 
In tellynge thy tale, 
Such folly forsake thou, 
In audible voice 
Not hie nor lowe, 
Thy wordes se that 
And that ^ they spoken 
In vttryng wherof 
Thy matter therby 
whiche order yf thou 
From the purpose 



Capitulo .vii. 
a question of thee, 656 

be not to hastie ; 
the case vnderstande 660 
thou take in hande, 
in thee little wit, 664 

and not heare it. 
whole out to be toulde, 
and not be controulde ; 
lokinge him in the face, 
thy wordes see thou place, 
thy bodie vprighte 676 
thy handes in lyke plight; 
on neither syde. 680 

therin take no pryde. 
neither laugh nor smyle, 
banish and exyle ; 686 
thy wordes do thou vtter, 
but vsynge a measure. 690 
thou pronounce plaine. 
Be not in yayne ; 694 
Eepe thou an order, 
thou shalte much forder ; 
Do not obserue, 700 

nedes must thou swarue, 



Mowiohehave 

Mfken conventttff. 



Isocra. 

Uuderatand a 
qoMtionbefon 
yoa answer it} 



let a man tell an 
bis tale. 

[sign. C. UJ 
Then bow to blm, 
look blm in the 
face, 

and answer 
sensiblj, 

not staring about 



orlaoghing. 



botandibly 



and distinctly, 

sign. C. 11. 5.] 
your woids in doe 
Older, 

[I ortg, thai] 



or yoall straggle 
off. 



348 



HOW TO CARRY A MESSAGE. 



or stQtter, or 
stammer, whtch Li 
ft foul crime. 



And hastinea of specke 
Or wyll thee teache 
To stut or stammer 
Leame then to leaue it, 
How euyll a chylde 
Thy selfe beynge iudge, 
[sign. c. iiL] And sure it is taken 
whyle yonge you be 
This gonerall rule 
Aiweyikeepyoar j^ gpeakynge to any man 

head onoovered. r J o j 



Better'^unfed 
than unUught. 

How to take a 
Meuofft, 



The common prouerbe 
" Better vnfedde 



wyll cause thee to erre, 704 
to stut or stammer, 
is a foule crime, 708 

take wamyng in tyme ; 
it doth become, 712 

hauinge wisedome ; 
by custome and vre, 716 
there is helpe and cure, 
yet take with the, 720 
Thy head vn-couered be. 
remember ye oughte, 724 
then vn-taughte." 



^ How to order thy selfe being sente of message. 

Cap. viiL 



Listen to it well ; 



TF of message 

-■- Take hede to the same, 

don*t go Kwaj not 

knowing it. Depart not awaye 
[iign. c. iu. b.2 Know wel thy message 

Then hurry aw«y, with possible Spede 

If nede shall requirr it 
give the mettage; After humble obeisaunce, 
Thy wordes well placinge 
As shall thy matter 
Thine answere made, 
And to thy master 
As then the answere 



ge^ the answer, 
return home, 
and tell it to 
your master 



forthe thou be sente, 728 
Geue eare diligente ; 
and beyng in doute, 732 
before thou passe out ; 
then hast thee right sone ; 
so to be dona 738 

the message forth shewe 
in vttringe but fewe 742 
serue to declare, 
then home againe repare, 
therof make relacion 748 
shall geue thee occasion* 



Socra. 



[sign, a iiU.] 
exactly as it was 
told to you. 



Neither adde nor deminish any thynge to the same, 



Lest after it prone 
But the same vtter 
No faulte they shall fynde 
In most humble wyse 
As shall become beste 



to thy rebuke and shame, 
so nere as thou can ; 756 
to charge thee with than, 
loke done that it be, 760 
a seruantes d^re. 



Agaiiut Anger, 
de. 



The slave of 
Anger must fldl. 



I 



% A-gainste Anger, Enuie, and malice. 

Cap. ix. 
F thou be subiecte and to anger thrall, 764 

And reason thee rule not, nedcs must thou fall 



F. SEAOBR*S SCHOOLS OF YEBTUEL 



349 



Conquer thy wyll 

Thy fansy not Mowing, 

For anger and furie 

That thy doyngea to wise 

men 
Thine anger and wrath 
For wrath, saith Plato, 
The hastie man 
His mad moody mynde 
And malyce thee moue 
Dread euer god, 
Do not reuenge, 
Forgeue the offender 
He is perfectely pacient, 
[That] From wrath and 

fuiye 
Disdayne nor enuie 
In worde nor dede 
Debate and disceate, 
Are the chiefe frutes 
And Salomon saithe 
Of him selfe hath 



and subdue thy luste, 768 Pericles, 
thy cause though be iuate ; 

wyll thee so Chaunge 772 Anger's deedam 



▲ hABty man is 
always In troabto. 



[sign. C. Uii. &.] 
,. strangs to wise 

wyll appeare straunge. men. 
seke then to appeace, 776 
Leades shame in a leace. Plato, 
wantes neuer trouble, 780 Isocra. 
bis care doth double* 
to reuenge thy cause, 784 
and daunger of the lawes. 

though in thy power it be, Take no revenge 

bemg tnme enemie, 790 
we may repute plaine, 

Plato, 
himselfe can refrayne. 794 
The state of thy brother, , ^"^^ ^- ^-^ 

*' ' Envy no one. 

not hurt3rng one an other. Seneca. 



contencion and enuie, 800 An mbwjy breeds 

debate. 

of an euyll bodie. 

" The harte full of enuie, Salomon, 
no pleasure nor commo- 
ditie." 806 



% The fruites of charitie, loue, and pacience. 

Cap. X. 

/^Haritie seketh not that to her doth belonge, 

^ But paciently a-bydinge, sustainynge rather wronge ; 
Not enuiynge, but bearinge with loue and pacience, — 



So noble is her nature, — 
And loue doth moue 
But malice againe 
whiche in the wicked 
Pacience thee teacheth 
where pacience and loue 
All hate and debate. 



forgeuing all ofence. 814 
the mynde to mercie, 
doth worke the contrarie. 
wyll euer beare stroke, 820 
therof to beare the yoke, 
to-gether do dwell 824 
with malice, they expelL 



lluFnttUqf 
CharUy,^te, 



Charity seeketh 
not her own, 

bat bears 
patiently, 
[sign. C. T. k] 

Lore IndtOd to 
Hen^. 



Patience teaches 
forbearance. 



850 



AGAINST SWEARING. 



Plato. 



To be a vertue 
Plato doth, speake 
* where lone is not, 



Pithagoras. Lone constant and faithfull, Pithagoias doth call 828 

most principalL 
almoste in effecte 832 

no yertue is perfecte.' 
toassiste thee with lus grace 
and pacience to imbrace ; 
will thee instracte, 840 
they wyll thee conducte, 
to etemall bHsse 844 

continually ia. 



[•i^c. Tt] Desij^ tiien god 

Pnj God to give ^ 

thee Charity and Charitic to VSC 
Patience, 

These three folowinge 



to lead thee to 
Virtue's School, 

and thence to 
Etenial Bllsa. 



That to vertues schoole 
And firom yertues schoole 
where incessaunt ioie 



Agaiiut Swear- 
img. 



Take not God's 
name in vain. 



F 



^ A-gainge (so) the horrible vice of sweaiynge. 

Cap. xi. 



Beware of His 

wrath, 

and live well In 

thy vocation. 



vaine take not 
Swere not at all 
or He will plague The house with plagucs 

tnee* 

[sign. c. vi. bj where othes are vsed : 

Juste are his iudgementes, 
And sharper then is 
wherfore beware thou 
And learne to lyue well 
wherin that god 
Eysinge againe — 
By prayer and repentance, 
Christ wolde not the death 
But rather he tumo 
And so to lyuo 
what better art thou 
Blasfamouslye, 
Prouokynge his yro 
Thee for to plaugo, 
Knowlage and reason 
And for to flee 
Senica doth councell thee 
Although great profite 
Pericles, whose wordes 
From sweryngadraonisheth 



[sign. C. vlL] 
What is the good 
of swearing 7 

It kindles God's 
wrath against 
thee. 



Seneca. 



Pericles. 



the name of god ; 848 
for feare of his rod. 
he threteneth to visit 852 
they shall not escape it. 
and true is his w.orde, 856 
a two edged sworde ; 
his heauy indignacion, 860 
in thy vocacion 
shall thee set or call ; 864 
if it fortune to fall — 
whiche is the onely waie. 
of a sinner, I saye, 870 
From lus wickednesse, 
in yertue and goodnesse. 
for this thy swearyng 876 
the name of god tearyng 1 
and kyndlinge his wrath 
that geuinge the hath 
thy selfe for to rule, 884 
the thynge that is euyL 
all swerynge to refrayne, 
by it thou mighte gaine : 
are manifeste and playne, 
thee to obstaino ; 894 



F. SEtVGEB 8 SCHOOLE OF VERTUE. 



361 



The lawe of god. 



and commaundement ho Ood's law forUds 
gaue, 

° ' [sign. 0. TlL 6.] 

in no wjse wolde haue. twearing, 

and to doea tha 

I hauo here exproste^ 900 phUoBophexa. 



ought it to be vsed, 904 
cleane to be refused. 

of filthy talkynge. 
xiL 



Swearynge amongst vs 

The councell of philoso- 
ph[ers] 

Amongest whom sweryng was vtterly deteste ; 

Muchlesseamongest chris- 
tians 

But vtterly of them 

% A-gainste the vice 

Cap. 

\T0 filthy taulke 
-^^ Thy tonge therby 
Of euery idell worde 

All men I woulde 
To god for it 
In earnest or sporte 
whiche daye to the iuste 
And to the wicked 
As we here doe, 
Vnles we repente 
If god wyll deale 
For thinges that bo 
Then haue we cause 
Our lyues lewdly 
Thy tonge take hede 
From speakyng wordes 
Thy wyll and witte 
Thy mynde exercise 



Agaitutjatkg 

UOktHQ. 



in no wise vse, 
for to abuse. 

an accumpte wo shall 
render; — 912 

this sayinge to remember; — 
at the generall dale 916 
we shall speake or saie ; 
shalbe most ioyfuU, 920 
againe as wofulL 
so shall we receaue, 924 
and mercy of god craue. 
with Ys so straight 928 
of so small waight, 
to feare and dreade, 932 
if we haue leade. 
thou doe re&ayne 936 
that are moste vayne ; 
to goodnes applie, 940 
in vertuous studio. 



908 Never talk dirt. 



For every word* 
we shall give 
aooottut 

afc the Day of 
Doom, 
[sign. 0. vUL] 



andbejitdfi:ed 
according to oar 
deeds. 



Let lewd livers 
then fear. 



Keep your tongua 

from vain talking. 

[sign. C. viii. b.} 

Anstot. 



Aga4n$t Liftng, 



IT A-gainste the vice of lyinge. 
Capitulo .xiii. 

rrO forge, to fayne, to flater and lye, 944 Plato. 

* Roquiere diuers coUours with wordes fayre and slye, 
Butthevtteraunceoftruthe is so simple and playne To speak the 



352 



AGAINST LTINO. A KIGHTLT PRATER. 



tmth needf no 
therefore alweja 



praetUe It and 
•peak It. 

[sign. D. L] 
Shame lathe 
reward of lying. 



Alwaja speak the 
truth. 



Who can tmat a 
llarP 



If a lie aayes yoa 
once, 

[sign. D. 1. 5.] 
It deceives you 
thrice. 



A bedward 



Qodotiaamj, 



take ua Into Thy 
care. 



For^ve ua oar 
alna. 



[sign. D. 11.] 

Deliver uafhnn 

evil, 

and our enemy 

theDevlL 



That it nedeth no stadie 
wherfore saye truth. 
So shalte thou fynde 
Vse truthe, and say truth, 
For tyme of althinges 
Shame is the rewarde 
Then auoyde shame, 
A lyar by his lying 
That whan he saith truth 
Then let thy talke 
And blamed for it 
Howe male a man 
But doubte his dedes, 
In tellyng of truth 
Where vttring of lyes 
And though a lye 
Thrise for that once 
Truste then to truth, 
And foUowe these pre- 
ceptes: 

% A praier to be 
goest to 

A Mercifull god ! 

^ And graunte vnto vs 

Into thy tuicoin, 

Our bodies slepynge, 

Foigeue the oifonces 

A-gainste thee and our 

neighbour 
And graunte ys thy grace 
And that a newe lyfe 
Deliuer and defende vs 
And irom the daunger 
whiche goeth a-boute 
And by his craf te 



to forge or to fayne ; 950 
how euer stand the case, 
more fauour and grace. 954 
in that thou goest aboute, 
the truthe wyll bringe out. 
For lying dewe ; 960 

and vtter wordes trewe. 
this profet doth get, 964 
no man wyll him credet ; 
with the truth agree, 968 
thou shalte neuer bee. 
a Iyer ought truste 1 972 
his woordes being yniuste. 
there lo.ugeth no shame, 
deserueth much blame ; 
from stripes ye once saue, 
it wyll the desceue ; 982 
and neitherforge nor fayne, 

from liyng do refraine. 986 

saide when thou 
bedde. 

heare this our requeste, 
this nighte quiet reste. 990 
oh lorde, do ys take ! 
our myndes yet maie waka 
this day ewe haue wroughte 
in worde, dede, and 
thoughte ! 998 

hense forth to flie sione, 
we maie nowe beginne ! 
this night from all euell, 
of our enemie, the diuell, 
sekyng his praie, 1008 
whom we maie betraie. 



F. seager's bchoolb op vebtue. 353 

Assiste vs, oli lorde, with thy holy sprite, 1012 Ajsutiui 

That valiantly against him we male euer fighte ; 

And winning the victorie, maie lifte vp our voice, to conquer him 

And in his strength faithfully reioice, 1018 

Saying, " to the lorde be aU honour and praise andawsribeau 

J o9 r honour to Thee. 

For his defence bothe now and alwaies ! 

% the dutie of eche degied. (so) [dgn. i>. «• ^.l 

brefely declared. 

princes, that the The Duty of 



1 yE pri 



earth rule and goueme, 1024 

Seke ye for knowledge doubtes to disceme. 



Princea» 



a Ye iudges, geue iudge- jndgee, 

ment according to righte 1028 

As may be founde acceptable in the lordes 

sight 

3 Ye prelates, preache Prelates, 

purely the worde of our lorde, 
That your linings & 

prechinges in one maie accorde. 1034 * 

4 Ye fathers and mothers, so your children instructe Parente, 
As maye them to grace and uertue conducte. 1038 

5 Ye chyldren, lykewyse obey your parentes here ; 'wgn.D.iii.] 
In all godlinesse see that ye them feare. ' 

6 Ye maisters, do you the thynge that is righte Maatera, 
Not lokynge what ye may do by mighte. 

7 Ye seruauntes, applie your busines and arte, servanta, 
Doinge the same in singlenesse of harte. 

8 Ye husbandes, loue Hnabauda. 

your wyues, and with them dwell, 
All bitternesse set 

aparte, vsing wordes gentell. 1054 

2J 



354 



THB DUTY OF ALL DEOREBS OP MEN. 



The Duty of 9 y^ wyues, to your hus- 

bandes be obedient alwaie, 
(siga D. iiL ft.] YoT they are your 

heades, and ye bounde to obeie. 

Panona uid 10 Ye peiBonfl and vickers that haue cure and charge. 

Take hede to the same, and roue not at large. 1062 

uaaofuw, n Ye men of lawe, in no wyse delaie 

The cause of the poore, but helpe what ye male. 



Cnikaneiif 



12 Ye that be craftes men, vse no disceite, 1068 

Geuing to all men tale, measure, and weighte. 



Landlord!^ 



13 Ye that be landlordes and haue housen to let. 
At reasonable rentes do them forth set 1074 



[sign. D. iUi.] 
Merdianta, 



14 Ye merchauntes that 

vse the trade of merchandiBe, 

Yse lawfuU wares and reasonable pris& 1078 



Sabjeoti^ 



15 Ye subiectes, lyue ye 
Fearyng gods stroke. 



in obedience and awe, 
and daunger of the lawa 



Rich Men, 



16 Ye rych, whom god 
Eeleue the poore 



hath goods ynto sente, 
and helpe the indigente. 



Poor Men, 



17 Ye that are poore, with your state be contente, 

Not hauinge wherwith to lyue competente, 1090 



Megistntes, 18 Ye magestrates, the 

cause of the widdo w and f atherles 

[sign. D. liu. b,] Defende againste suche as shall them opresse. 



Qflloen^ 



19 All ye that are called to any other office, 1096 
Execute the same acordinge to iustice. 



F. heaoer's sghoole of vertue. 355 

20 Let eche here so liue in his vocacion, 1100 The Doty of 

all Men. 

As maie his soule saue, and profet his nacion. 

21 This graunting god, that sitteth on hie, 1 102 ^4^^~ *" 
we shall here well lyue and after well die. ^«" * 



jfamam fnrtstis mors 
^bolxrt neqmt qnod. jf. S$» 

^ Imprinted at London in Paules 

Churchyearde. By william 

Seares. 



356 



M|ate-eirer t\tAs &% abgse %t kllel 



\MS. 0. 9. 38. Trinity College, Cambridge,'] 



AnMamittt 
mind what he 
Mrs: 



hearts are fickle 
and feU. 



8 



Almyjty godde, conserue vs fram care ! 
Where ys thys worle A-wey y-wente 1 
A man that schold speke, had nede to be ware, 
flfor lytyl thyng he may be schente ; 
Tonggys beth y-tume to ly ther entente ; 
Hertys, they beth bothe fykel and felle ; 
Man, be ware leste thow repente 1 
Whate euer thow sey, A-vyse the welle ! 



Take care what 
yon Bay. 



A false friend maj 
hear it. 



and after a year 
or two will repeat 
it 



A-vyee the, man, yn whate place and whare 
A woord of conseyl thow doyst seyne ; 
Sum man may ley ther-to hys ere ; 

12 Thow wenyst he be thy frend; he ys thy foo 
c«rteyne; 
Peraventor aftyr A jere or tweyne — 
Thow trowyst as tni as eny stele, — 
Thys woord yn wreththow schalthyre A-gayne ! 

16 Whate euer thow sey, A-vyse the welle ! 



Hadgr speech 
hurts hearer and 
speaker. 



In the beginninir, 
think on the end. 



Meny man spekyth yn hastenys : 

hyt hyndryth hym and eke hys frende ; 

hym were welle beter his tonge to sese 

20 Than they both ther-for be schende. 

Suche wordys beth not to be had yn meynde, 
hyt maky^t comforte wiih care to kele : 
Man, yn the begynnyng thenk on |>e eynde ! 

24 Whate euer thow sey, A-vyse the welle ! 



WHATE-EVER THOW SET, AVTSE THEE WELLE ! 



367 



To sum man thow mayste tel a pryuy tale : 
Whan he fro the ys wente A-way, 
ffor a draw^t of wyne other ale 

28 he wolle the wrey, by my fay, 

And make hyt worse (hyt ys noo nay) 
Than ener hyt was, A thowsend dele. 
Thys ys my songe both ny^t <& day, 

32 Whate eu^r thow sey, A-vyse the welle ! 



Ton tell a man a 
•ecret, aad hell 
betray it for a 
drink of wine. 



Mind what yoa 
say* 



Be ware of bagbytynge, y the rede ; 

ley flaterynge vndyr thy foote, loke ; 

Deme the beste of euery dede 
36 Tylle trowth haue serchyd truly |>e roote ; 

Rrefrayne malyce cruelle & hoote ; 

Dyscretly and wysly speende thy spelle ; 

Boost ne brage ys worth A loote ; 
40 Whate euer thow sey, A-vyse the welle ! 



AToid backbiting 
and ilatterlnc; 



relMn trom 
malioe. 

andbngKlns. 



Dysese, wharre, sorowe and debate, 
ys caused ofte by venemys tonge ; • 
haddywyst cometh euer to late 

44 Whan lewyd woordis beth owte y-spronge. 
The kocke seyth wysly on his songe 
* hyre and see, and hold the stylle,' 
And ener kepe thys lesson A-mongc, 

48 Whate euer thow sey, A-vyse the welle ! 



A Tenomoin 

tongaecaoaee 

sorrow. 

When words are 

said, regret is too 

late. 



Mind what yon 
say. 



y dere welle swery by the sonne, 

yf euery man had thys woord yn thowjt 

Meny thynggis had neuer be by-gunne 

62 That ofle yn Ingelond hath be y-wro^t. 
The wyse man hath hys sone y-taw^tte 
yn ryches, poorte, woo, and welle ; 
Thys worthy reson for-^ete thow nojt, 

66 Whate euer thow sey, A-vyse the welle ! 



Had ttien thought 
of this, many 
things done in 
England would 
never hare been 
begun. 



BwTkt Wim 
Jf4imp.48. 



35S 



A DOOG LABDTKER, AND A BOWE GARDYNEB. 



To ipeftk aright 

obtenreitx 

thiugi: 

LwhAt: lof 
whom; & where; 
4. to whom ; 
& whj; 0. when. 



In eTery place 
mind what jovi 



yf that thow wolte epeke A-ryjt, 

Ssyx thynggys thov moste obeeme then : 

What thow epekyst, & of what wy^t, 

60 Whare, to wham, whye, and whenna 

Thow noost how soone thow schalt go henne ; 
As lome be meke, as serpent felle ; 
yn euerj place, A-monge alle men, 

64 Whate euer thow sey, A-vyse the welle ! 



Almighty Ood. 



grant me grace 
to serve Thee ! 



Mary, mother. 



sendmegnee 
night and d^tj ! 



" Almy^ty god jm personys thre, 
WiHi herte mylde mekly y praye, 
Graiinte me grace thy seruant to be 

68 Yn woorde and dede eutT and aye ! 
Mary, moder, blessyd maye, 
Quene of hevyn, Lnp&res of helle, 
Sende me grace both ny^t and daye !" 

72 Whate euer thow sey, A-vyse the welle ! 



Explicit &c. 



[MS. O. 9. 38. Trinity College, Camfn-idge,] 
Printed in Beliqaifle Antiquiie, ▼. i. p. 233, /r<m MS, Lantdoume 



A dog In a larder, 
a BOW In a garden, 



hoo 80 makyjt at crystysmas A dogg6 lardyner, 
a fool With wioe * And yn march A sowe gardyner, And yn may A foole 

men, are 111 

of every wysmanys counsaylle, ho achalle neuer haue 
goode larder, ne fayre gardyn, nother counsaylle welle y- 
keptt. 



nuiteht 



369 




mm in -Ij. 



[MS. Lansdotone 762, /oZ. 16 5, written asprose^ 
Printed in Eeliquise Antiquise, v. i. p. 233.] 

Aryse erly, 

seme God devowtely 

and the worlde besely, 

doo thy werk wisely 

yeue thyna almes secietely, 

goo by the waye sadly, 

answer the people demuerly, 

goo to thy mete apetitely, 

sit therat discretely, 

of thy tunge be not to liberally, 

arise therfrom temperally, 

go to thy supper soberly 

and to thy bed merely, 

be in thyn Inne iocundely, 

please thy loue duely, 

and Slepe suerly. 



360 



is l0r)r W&JOimVs Strbant. 



Fear God, 

serve your lord 
falthftilly. 



be ooaiteooB to 
your follows. 



With the different counsels to babees, pages, and 
servants, throughout this volume, may be compared 
Boger Ascham's advice to his brother-in-law, Mr C. BL, 
when he put him to service with the Earl of Warwick, 
A.D. 1559. Here follows part of it, from Whitaker's 
Hist of Eichmondshire, p. 282. 

First and formost, in all your thoughts, words, and 
deeds, have before your eyes the feare of God. .... 
love and serve your lord willingly, faithfullye, and 
secretlye ; love and live with your fellowes honestly, 
quiettlye, curteouslye, that noe man have cause either to 
hate yow for your stubbome frowardnes, or to malice 
yow for your proud ungentlenes, two faults which 
commonly yonge men 8oones[t] fall into in great men's 

Deq>iM no poor service. Contenuie noe poore man, mocke noe simple 
man, w7ach proud fooles in cort like and love to doe ; 
find fault with your selfe and with none other, the best 
waye to live honestlye and quiettly in the court. 
Carrye noe tales, be noe co7Mmon teller of newes, be 
not inquisitive of other menu's talke, for those that are 
desirous to heare what they need not, commonly be 
readye to babble what they shold not. Vse not to lye, 
for that is vnhonest ; speake not everye truth, for that 
is vnneedfuU ; yea, in tyme and place a harmlesse lye 
is a greate deale better then a hurtfull truth. Use not 

Don't pi«y at dice dyceiug nor carding ; the more yow use them the lesse 
yow wilbe esteemed ; the cunninger yow be at them 



Oury no tales. 



Tell no lies. 



ROGER ASCHAH's ADVICE. 361 

the worse man yow wilbe coimtecL for pastime, love 

and leame that -which your lord Uketh and vseth most, Tttotoyoor 

** lord 8 CiToariie 

whether itt be rydeing, shooteing, hunting, hawkeing, ■port. 

fishing, or any such exercise. Beware of secrett comers 

and night sitting vp, the two nurses of mischiefe, un- 

thriftines, losse, and sicknes. Beware cheifely of !**"■" <^ 

ydlenes, the great pathway that leadeth directly to all 

evills ; be diligent alwayes, be present every where in 

your lord's service, be at hand to call others, and be not Ai«^jBb«at 

•^ ' ^ band wlMn TOoYe 

ofte sent for yourselfe; for marke this as part of your waoted. 

creed, that the good service of one whole yeare shall 

never gett soe much as the absence of one howre may 

lose, when your lord shall stand in need of yow to send. 

if yow consider alwayes that absence and negligence 

must needes be cause of greife and sorrowe to your 

selfe, of chideing and rueing to your lord, and that 

dutye done diligently and presently shall gaine yow wiigwioe wm gat 

ToapnJta. 

profitt, and purchase yow great praise and your lord's 

good countenance, yow shall ridd me of care, and wynne 

your selfe creditt, make me a gladdman, and your aged 

mother a ioyfull woman, and breed your fireinds great 

comforth. Soe T comitt and commend yow to God's God be with jou » 

mercifull protecc/on and good guidance, who long 

preserve Your ever loving and affectionate brother in 

lawe. 

RASKAM. 

To my loveing Brother in Lawe, Mr C, H., Servant 
to the Rt. Hon. the Earle of Warwick, these. 



24 



362 



NOTES TO THE BOOK OF CURTASYE. 



p. 310, 1. 377-8, Stalut. The only Statute about horse-hire that I can 
fiod, is 20 Bio. II. cap. 6, a.d. 1396-7> given below. I suppose the Foure 
petu of I. 376 of the Bok» of Ouriiuye was the price fixed by *' the kyngis 
crye " or Proclamation, L 378, or by the sheriff or magbtrates in accordance 
with it as the " due Agreement to the party " required by the Statute. 

" Item, Forasmuch as the Commons have made Complaint, that many 
great Mischiefs Extortions ft Oppressions be done by divers people of evil 
Condition, which of their own Authority take ft cause to be taken royally 
Horses and other "things, and Beasts out of their Wuns Carts and Houses, 
saying ft devising that they be to ride on hasty Messages & Business, where 
of Truth they be in no wise privy of any Business or Message, but only in 
Deceit ft Subtilty, by such Colour and Device to take Horses, and the said 
Horses hastily to ride ft evil entreat, having no Manner of Conscience or 
Compassion in this Behalf, so that the said Horses become all spoiled and 
foundered, paying no manner of Thing nor penny for the same, nor giving 
them any manner of sustenance ; and also that some such manner of people, 
changing ft altering their Names, do take and ride such Horses, and carry 
them far from thence to another Place, so that they to whom they belong, 
can never after by any mean see, have again, nor know their said Horses 
where they be, to the great Mischief Loss Impoverishment ft Hindrance of 
the King*s poor People, their Husbandry, and of their Living : Our Lord 
the King willing, for the Quietness and Ease of his People, to provide 
Eemedy thereof, will ft hath ordained. That none from henceforth shall take 
any such Horse or Beast in Such Manner, against the Consent of them to 
whom they be ; and if any that do, and have no sufficient Warrant nor 
Authority of the King, he shall be taken and imprisoned till he hath made 
due Agreement to the Party." 

That this seizing of horses for the pretended use of the king was no 
fancied grievance, even in much later times, is testified by Eoger Ascham's 
letter to Lord Chancellor Wriothesley (? in 1546 a.d.) complaining of an 
audacious seizure of the horse of the invalid Master of Peterhouse, Cam- 
bridge, on the plea that it was to carry the king's fish, whereas the seizer's 
own servant was the nag's real burden : '* tentatum est per hominem apud 
nos valde turbulentum, nomine Maxwellum." AschanCs WorJa^ ed. Giles, 
V. 1, p. 99. In vols, ix., x., and xi. of Rymer, I find no Prockmation 
or Edict about horse-hire. In 1413 Henry V.'s Herbergeator is to pro- 



NOTES TO THE BOKE OF GURTASYE. 363 

vide Henry le Scrop, knight, with all that he wants " PrOTiso semper qnbd 
idem Henricus pro hujusmodi Fcenis, Eqois, Carectis, Gariagiis, & aiiis 
necessariis, per se, sea Homines & Servientes suos prsedictos, ibidem capien- 
dis, fideliter solvat & satisfaciat, at est justum." Bymer, ix. 13. 

The general role shown by the documents in Rymer is that reasonable 
payments be made. 

De Equis pro Cariagio Gtmnorum Regis eapiendU, 

A.D. 1413 (1 Sept.), An. 1. Hen. V. Pat. 1, Hen. V. p. 3, m. 19. 
ReXi Dilectis sibi, Johanni Sprong, Armigero, & JohantU Louth Clerico, 
Salatem. 

Sciatis quod Assignavimos vos, conjunctim & divisim, ad tot Eqaos, 
Boves, Plaastra, & Carectas, quot pro Gariagio certorum Gunnoram nos- 
tronim, ac aliaram Reram pro eisdem Gunnis necessariam, a Yilla Bristollie 
usque Givitatem nostram LondonisB, indiguerint, Uim infra Libertates, qukm 
extea (Feodo Ecclesis dumtaxat excepto) pro Denariis nostris, in hac parte 
rationabiliter solvendis Gapiendum & Providendum. Rymety ix. p. 49. 

So in 1417 the order to have six wings plucked from the wing of every 
goose (except those commonly called Brodoges^^ brood geese — ) to make 
arrows for our archers, says that the feathers are rationabiliter solvendis. 
See also p. 653. 

p. 310, 1. 358. The stuarde and his ttafe, Gp. Garendish's Life of Wolsey 
(ed. Singer, i. 34), *' he had in his hall, daily, three especial tables furnished 
with three principal officers ; that is to say, a Steward, which was always a 
dean or a priest ; a Treasurer, a knight ; and a GomptroUer, an esquire ; 
which bare alwagt within hU house their white staves. 

*' Then had he a cofferer, three marshals, two yeomen ushers, two grooms, 
and an almoner. He had in the hall- kitchen two clerks of his kitchen, a 
clerk comptroller, a surveyor of the dresser, a clerk of his spicery." See the 
rest of Wolsey's household officers, p. 34-9. 

p. 312, 1. 409. Jle. See in Notes on the Months, p. 418, the Song ** Bryng 
us in good ale," copied from the MS. song-book of an Ipswich Minstrel of 
the 15th century, read by Mr Thomas Wright before the British Archaeo- 
logical Association, August, 1864, and afterwards published in The Gentle" 
man*s Magazine. P.S. — ^The song was first printed complete in Mr Wright's 
edition of Songs §r Carols for the Percy Society, 1847, p. 63, He gives 
Bitson's incomplete copy from Harl. MS. 541, at p. 103. 

Bryng us in good ale, and bryng us in good ale ; 
For owr blysqrd lady sak, biyng us In good ale. 

Bryuff us in no browne bred, fore that is made of brane, 
Nor bryng us in no whjrt bred, for therin is no game ; 
But bryng us in good ale. 

Bryng us in no befe, for there is many bonys ; 
But bryng us in good ale, for that goth downe at onys. 
And bryng us in good ale. 

24 • 



364 NOTES TO THE BOKE OF CURTASYE. 

Bryng us in no bacon, for that is passing fate ; 
Bat bryng ns in good ale, and sjte ma i-nought of that. 
And bryng us in good ale. 

Bryng ns in no mutton, for that is often lene, 
Nor bryng us in no trypes, for thei be syldom clene ; 
Dut bryng us in good ale. 

Bryng us in no eggys, for ther ar many schelles ; 
But bryng us in good alei and sjfe us no[th]yng ellys. 
And bryng us in good ale. 

Bryn^ vs in no butter, for therin ar many herys, 
Nor Dryng us in no pyg^ flesch, for that will make us borys ; 
But bryng us m good ale. 

Bryng us in no podynges, for therin is al Godes-good ; 
Nor bryng us in no venesen, for that is not for owr blood ; 
%ut bryng us in good ale. 

Bryng us in no capons flesch, for that is ofte der ; 
Nor Dryng us in no dokes flesche, for thei slober in the mer ; 
But bryng us in good ale. 

See also the other ale song at p. 81 of the same volume, with the burden 

Doll thi ale, doll ; doll thi ale, doU ; 

Ale mak many a mane to have a doty poll. 

p. 313, 1. 435, Gromes. '' the said four groomes, or two of them at the 
least, shall repaire and be in the King's pHvy chamber, at the farthest 
between six and seven of the clock in the morning, or sooner, as they shall 
have knowledge that the King's highnesse intendeth to be up early in the 
morning; which groomes so comen to the said chamber, shall not onely 
avoyde the pallets, but also make ready the fire, dresse and straw the 
chamber, pnrgeing and makeing cleane of the same of all manner of filthy- 
nesse, in such manner and wise as the King's highnesse, at his upriseing and 
comeing thereunto, may finde the said chamber pure, cleane, whollsome, and 
meete, without any displeasant aire or thing, as the health, commodity, and 
pleasure of his most noble person doth require." Household Ordinances, p. 
155, cap. 56, a.d. 1526. 



>. 



366 



[Postscrijyty added after the Index had been printed,'] 



Jffbr t0 %ixk a lorir. 



[From the Bev, Walter SnetfcTs copy of Mr Davenport BromUf/s MS."] 



Mb Sn£yd has just, told me that Mr Arthur Davenport's MS. How to 
serve a Lord, referred to in my Preface to Russell, p. cvii, is in fact the one 
from Mr Snejd's copy of which his sister quoted in her edition of the ' Italian 
Relation of England ' mentioned on pp. xiv, xv of my Forewords. Mr Sneyd 
says : ' I made my copy nearly fourty years ago, during the lifetime of the late 
Mr A. Davenport's grandfather, who was my uncle by marriage. I recollect 
that the MS. contains a miscellaneous collection of old writings on various 
subjects, old recipes, local and family memoranda, &c., all of the 15th century ; 
and, bound up with them in the old vellum wrapper, is an imperfect copy of 
the first edition of the Book of St Alban's. On Mr Arthur Davenport's 
death, last September, the MS. (with the estates) came into the possession of 
Mr Davenport Bromley, M.P., but a long time must elapse before it can be 
brought to light, as the house you mention is still unfinished, and the boxes 
of books stowed away in confusion.' On my asking Mr Sneyd for a sight of 
his copy, he at once sent it to me, and it proved so interesting — especially 
the Eeast for a Bride, at the end^hat I copied it out directly, put a few 
notes to it, and here it is.^ For more notes and explanations the reader must 
look the words he wants them for, out in the Index at the end of Part II. 
The date of the Treatise seems to me quite the end of the 15th century, if not 
the beginning of the 16th. The introduction of the Chamber, p. 373, the 
confusion of the terms of a Carver, * unlose or tire or display', p. 377 — enough 
to make a well-bred Carver faint : even Wynkyn de Worde in 1508 and 1513 
doesn't think of such a thing — the cheese shred with sugar and sage-leaves, 

^ Though it goes against one's ideas of propriety to print from a copy, yet when 
one wants the substance of a MS., it's better to take it from a copy, when you can 
^t it, than fret for five years till the MS. turns up. When it does so, we can print 
It if necessary, its owner permitting. 



FFOB TO SERVE A LOHO. 367 

p. 372, tlie * Trenohours of tree or bxede,' L 16, below, &c., as well as the 
language, all point to a late date. The treatise is one for a less grand house- 
hold than Russell, de Worde, and the author of the Boie of Carteuye prescribed 
rules for. But it yields to none of the books in interest : so in the words of 
its pretty ' scriptur ' let it welcome all its readers : 

" Welcombe you bretheren godely in this hall ! 
Joy be unto you. all 
that en ' this day it is now fall ! 
that worthy lorde that lay in an Oxe stalle 
mayntayne your husbonde and you, -with your gystys all ! " 



[I. Of laying the Cloth and setting out the Table,"] 

Ffirst, in servise of all thyngys in pantery and 
botery, and also for the ewery. fltot, table-clothis, ^^^^ ^ 
towelles longe and shoite, covertours^ and napkyns, be n»pkin«rawij, 
ordeyned clenly, clone and redy accordyng to the tyme. 
Also basyns, ewers, Trenchonrs of tree or brede, sponys, ■tootwnchers, 
salte, and kervyng knyves, 

Thenne ayenst tyme of mete, the boteler or the 
ewer shall brynge forthe clenly dressed and fayie ap- s. Bring Tonr 
plyed ' Tabill-clothis, and the cubbord-clothe, cowched 
uppon his lef te shulder, laying them uppon the tabill ^ ^em on the 
ende, close applied ' unto the tyme that he have firste 
coverd the cubbord : and thenne cover the syde-tabillis, then oowr the 

" ' cupboard, the 

and laste the principall tabill with dobell clothe draii;», side-t«bie. and 

'^ ^ the chief Ubie. 

cowched, and spradde unto the degre^ as longeth therto 
in festis. 

Thenne here-nppon the boteler or panter shall bring >• Bring out the 

^ '^^ ^ ^ ^ chief aaltoellar. 

forthe his pryncipall salte, and iiij or v loves of paiyd and pared loaves 

brede, havyng a towaile abonte his nekke, the tone 

half honge or lying uppon his lefte arme unto his hande, 

and the kervyng knyves holdyng in the lyght hande, ^1^®*4^ ^ 

iuste unto the saltenseler beiyng. your right hand. 

^ on. s por bread, see { III., p. 369. 

' FcAded. Cf. ' a towaile applyed dowble ' below. Fr. pUer, to 
fould, plait, plie. Cotgrave. 



368 FFOR TO SERVB A LOBD. 

4. Patyoarehier Thexme the boteler or paater shall sette the aeler 

MltMllar bafor* ^ 

theohtofpenon't in the TDjddjB of the tabull accordyng to the place 

Mftt^ his brflftd 

^J^ where the principall soyerain shalle sette, and sette his 

brede iuste couched unto the salte-seler ; and yf ther 

fc«to«*itr°****" ^ trenchours of brede, sette them iuste before the seler, 

and lay downe faire the kervyng knyyes, the poynts to 

the seler benethe the trenchours. 

nitoeiutfatthT' Thenne the seconde selojf att the lower ende, with 

lower end. y parjd loves ' therby, and trenchours of brede yf they 

If wooden be ordeyned ; and in case be that trenchours of tree 

tranchan ws 

uMd. brine th«ni shalbe ordeyned, the panter shall biyng them with 
nappekyns and sponys whenne the soyerayne is sette 
att tabilL 

t. PtttMitediMBi Thenne after the high principall tabill sette with 
brede & salte, thenne salte-selers shall be sette uppon 
the syde-tablys, but no brede unto the tyme such people 

r. Bring oat Toor be sette that fallith to come to mete. Thenne the 

bMtna, ftc, and 

Pecys,* sponys sette into a pece, redressing all his silvdr 
plate, upon the cubbord, the largest firste, the richest 
in the myddis, the lighteste before. 

[11. Of Witshing after Grace is said,] 

8. Letfhoohier Thenne the principall servitours moste take in ii 

bMini. Ae.. wadj, haudys, basyns and ewers, and towell, and therwith to 

awayte and attende unto the tyme that the grace be 

fully saide ; and thenne incontynent after grace saide, 

«ad aiur QnM, to serve water with the principall basyn and ewer unto 

hold thd best 

the principall soyerayne, and ij principall servitouis to 

^ What is done with these loaves does not appear. The career 
in Motion 12, Section IV., pares the loaves wherewith he serves the 
g^uests. 

* Goblets or onps : ? also ornamental pieces of plate. ' A peee$ of 
wyne ' occurs in Ladye Besaiye^ Percy Folio, Ballads & Bomances, 
vol. iii., and in the Percy Society's edition. John Lord Nevill 
of Baby, in 1383, bequeaths 48 silver salt-cellars .. 32 j9mw, 48 
spoons, 8 chargers, 27 jngs, &o. Dometttc ArehiUcture^ ii. 66. 
< JHota, Horat. Any drinking pace having two eares, a two-eared 
drinking cap.' Nomtuiator in Nares. 



FFOB TO 8KRVB A LORD. 369 

holde the towell under the basyn in lenght before the urfn to the cuef 

^ ^ lord, with the 

BOYiayne ; and after that the soviayne hath wasshe, to towel under: 
yeve thenne water unto such as ben ordeyned to sjtte at •*»* **»•? *•' "f 

*' " meannAtei WMh. 

the spvrayne-is messe. 

[IIL Of the Lord ^ Quests taking their Seats, ^ getting 
their Trenchers, Spoons, Napkins, 4f BreadJ] 

Thenne after the wesshing servid, the sovrayne will •• The chief lowi 
take his place to sitte, and to hym such persons as hit thenhiimew- 

^ » J r mateethelre; 

pleaseth hym to have, uppon which tyme of sittyng, 
the servitorys moste diligently arwayte to serve them of 
qussyons, and after that done, to make such personys ^*'***i7*^ 
to be sette at the lower messe as the principall soverayne ^^'^ 
aggrees that be convenyent. 

Be it remembrid that evermore at the begynnyng (When GrMe 

hegina, the breed 

of grace the covertour of brede shalbe avoyded and ooTertotobe 

^ ^ taken &waj.) 

take away, thenne the karver, havyng his napkyn at lo. The Owm> 

•^ > J O r J ukes 4 trenchers 

all tymes uppon his left hand, and the kervyng knyf onhiaknife-point. 

in his right hande, and he shall take uppon the poynte 

of his knyf iiij trenchours, and so cowche them iustely 

before the principall, i^ lying iustely to-geder, \j under^ and lajv them 

and on^ uppon, and the fowerth before, iustely for to lay loni. 

uppon salte. and the next, lay i^ trenchours ; and soo salt on.) 

i^* or \j after her degree, therto the boteler most be redy the ie« peopled . 

with sponys and napkyns, that ther as the trenchours ^;e. eaanmiia a 

be cowched, lay the spone and the napkyn therto, and 22Sn!°** * 

800 thorowe the horde. 

Thenne the kerver shall take into his hande on or ij u- The omrer 

pane 2 loaTee, 

loves, and here hem to the syde-tabill ende, and ther 
pare hem quarter on first, and bring hym hole to-geder, 
and cowche ^ of the beste before the sovrayne, and to Uyasbefora us 

lord, and 8 or 1 to 

others by ij or on after ther degree. the re>t. 

[IV. 0/ the Courses of the Dinner!] 

[Firti aNir«f.] 

Thenne the kerver or sewer most asserve' eveiy 

^ ? Assewe. 



370 



FFOB TO SKRVl A LOBD. 



UL 0«T»Bmwa, 



beef, swm, 
phe^unt, flrlUen. 



As a cluuage for 
beef. 

faarelefior 
chines of pOTk. or 
tongue of ox or 
hart 



14. Clear Awaj 
the lei ooane^ 



cnimhs. bones, 
and used 
trenchers. 
16. Benre the 
Second Ooutm: 



Small birds, 

lamb, 

kid^Tenkon, 



rabblU 
meat pie. 



leal, woodoodE. 
Great birds. 



disshe in his degie, after order and oonrse of servise as 
folowith : first, mustard and brawne, swete wyne shewed 
therto.^ 

POTAOB. 

Befe and moton. swan or gese. grete pios, capon or 
fesaant; leche or fretours. Thenne yef potage be 
chaungeabill after tyme and season of the yere as 
fallith, as here is rehercid : by example, fTor befe and 
moton ye shall take 

PesteUes or chjmys of porke, 

or els tonge of befe, 

or tonge of the harte powderd ;* 

Befe stewed, 

chekyns boylyd, and bacon. 

IThe Second QmrseJ] 
Thenne ayenste the secunde cours, be redy, and 
come in>to the place, the kerver muste aroyde and take 
nppe the service of the first cours, — ^begynnyng at the 
lowest mete first, — and all broke cromys, bonys, & tren- 
chours, before the secunde cours and servise be served, 
thenne the seconde cours shall be served in manner 
and fourme as ensample thereof here-after folowyng : 



Potage. pigge 
Conye 
Crane 
heronsewe 
betoure 
Egrete 
Corlewe 
wodecok 
Pert[r]igge 
Plover 
Snytys 
quaylys 
f&etours 
leche 
1 Sewed or serred therewith. 



lamme stewed 
Kidde posted 
Veneson rosted 
heronsewe 
betoure 
pigeons 
Eabetts 
a bake mete 

Stokke-dovys stewed 



cony 
telys 



malard 
wodecok 
grete byrdys 

' salted or pickled. 



FFOR TO SERVE A LORD. 371 

[V. How to clear the Table,] 
After the seconde cours served, kerved, and spente, i«- Fm men's 

* eaiw and remove 

hit must be sene, cuppys to be fillid, trenchours to be their trenchers. 
Toyded. thenne by goode avysement the tabill muste be 
take uppe in manner as folowith : — ^first, when tyme 
foloweth ', the panter or boteler mnste gader uppe the ir. ooUectthe 

spoons. 

sponys ; after that done by leyser, the sewer or carver 
shall be-gynne at the loweste ende, and in order take 
uppe the lowest messe : after the syde-tabill be avoyded m. Take np the 

** / «; •/ lowest dishes at 

and take uppe, and thenne to procede to the Principall the side-tabies. 

^^ ' * . and then clear the 

tabill, and ther honestly and clenly avoyde and with- ugh ubie. 

drawe all the servise of the high table, ther-to the 

kerver muste be redy, and redely have a voyder to geder w. Sweep au 

''' '^ JO the bito of bread, 

in all the broke brede, trenchours, cromys lying upon trenchers, &«.. 

into a Toyder. 

the tabill j levyng none other thyng save the salte- 
seler, hole brede (yf any be lefte), and cuppys. 

[VL How to serve Dessert.] 

After this done by goode delyberacion and avyse- 
ment, the kerver shall take the servise of the principall ^ Tskeawajthe 

' -^ -^ cnps, Ae.,fromaU 

messe in order and rule, begynnynge at the lowest, and **>• mcasee, 

putting the 

80 procede in rule unto the laste,^ and theruppon the trenchers, te.. in 
kerver to have redy a voyder, and to avoyde all man^ 
trenchours [&] broke brede in a-nother clene disshe 
voyder, and cromys, which with the kervyng-knyf ' »nd scraping the 

cmmbs off with a 

shall be avoyded from the tabill, and thus procede unto carring-knife. 

the tabill be voyded. Thenne the kerver shall goo unto 

the cuppebord, and redresse and ordeyne wafers in to st Benre wafers 

rr ^ . •' In towels laid on 

towayles of raynes or fyne napkyns which moste be the table, 
cowched fayre and honestly uppon the tabill, and thenne 
serve the principall messe first, and so thorowe the 



1 Paloweth 

* ? firste. The directions for taking-away seem repeated here, 
unleflfl these second ones apply only to the spoons, napkins, &c. The 
cups are wanted for dessert. 

3 cramb-hroshes were not then inyented. 



372 FFOR TO SERVE A LORD. 

and iweet wine, tabill .j or ij yf hit 80 lequeie : therto moste be servid 

time aerre chMM. gwete wyne ^ and in feriall' tyme serve chese sbraped 
witb sugur and sauge-levis,' or ellis that hit be faiie 
kervid hole, or frute as the yere yevetb, strawberys, 

in winter, ronrt cherys, peiys, appulis ; and in winter, wardens,' costardys 
roste, rosted on fisshe-dayes with blanche ponder, and 

IS. cieer awaj 80 serve hit forth (f^ Thenne aftur wafers and £rute 

all except the 

chief nit cellar. 8pended, all maner thinffe shalbe take uppe and avoyded, 

whole bread, and ^ ^ , , , / j i_ _ 

oanrine-kniree: except the principall salt-seler, hole brede, andkerv3rng- 
knyves, the which shalbe redressed in maner and 
fourme as they were first sette on the table; the which, 

takf theae to the piincipall servitours of the pantre or botery, havyng his 
towaile, shall take uppe, and here hit into his office in 
like wyse as he first brought hit unto the TabilL 

[VII. Hotc the Diners shall wash after DessertJ] 
0. Laj Afresh Thenne the principall servitours, as kerver and 

doth all alone the . , 

chief table. sewer, moste have redy a longe towaile apply ed dowble, 

to be cowched uppon the principall ende of the table ; 

and that towell must be iustely drawen thorowe the 

tabill unto the lower ende, and ij servitours to awayte 

theruppon that hit be iustely cowched and sprad after 

84. Hare ready that done, ther musto be ordeyned basyns, and ewers 

with hot or cold With Water bote or colde as tyme of the yere requerith, 

and after Grace. Aud to be setto uppon the tabill, and to stonde unto the 

watCTtf Se'tot g^«ce be saide ; and incontynent after grace seide, the 



servitours to be redy to awayte and attende to yeve 
then the Moond. water, first to the principall messe, and after that to the 

^ Fr. ferialy of or belonging to a holyday. Vh ferial ieuveur, a 
sqaare drinker, a faithfdil drunkard ; one tiiat will take his liquor 
soundly. Cotgrave. Feriea, Holydaies, feastiuall dales, properly 
such holydaies as Monday and Tuesday in Easter week, &c. Cot. 

3 So "Apples and Cheese scraped with Sugar and Sage " at the 
end of the Second Course of the Dinner at the Marriage of Roger 
Bockley & Elizabeth Nevile, daughter of Sir John Neyile, the 14th 
of January in the 17th year of Henry the Vlllth. (a. d. 1526.) 
Forme of Oury, p. 174. 

> Wardens are baking pears ; costards, apples. 



FFOR TO SERVE A LORD. 373 

Beconde. mcontynent after thk done, tlie towayle and 
tabill-clothifl most be drawen, cowched, and sprad, and ^:J^*^\9^*^^ , 

^ -7 X- » fyi^ ^p y,^ towels 

80 by litill space taken uppe in the myddis of tbe ^J^'J^*' to 
tabill, and so to be delyvered to the officer of pantery the Panter. 
or boteiy. 

[Vin. 0/ the Remaml of the Tahlsy and the separate 
Service to grand Guests in the Chamber,'] 

Thenne uprysyng, servitours muste attende to avoy de ^ cie«r ewty 

teblee, trestlee, 

tabills, trestellis, formys and stolys, and to redresse forau; andput 

cuflhlona on other 

bankers and quyssyona then the boteler shall avoyde BMte. 
the cupborde, begynnyng at the lowest, procede in rule the caps. Ac. 

beck into your 

to the hieste, and here hit in-to his office. Thenne office. 

S8. Serve knUchts 

after mete, hit moste be away ted and well entended by sndisdiesi.^ 

servitours yf drinke be asked, and yf ther be knyght or kneeling. 

lady or grete gentil-woman, they shall be servid uppon 

kne with brede and wyne. Thenne it moste be sene S9. conduct 

yf strangers shalbe brought to chamber, and that the chamber. 

chamber be clenly appareld and dressed according to 

the tyme of the yere, as in wynter-tyme, fyer, in somtnr 

tyme the bedd couerd wM pylawes and hedde-shetys 

in case that they woll reste. and after this done, they sol Senrethem 

moste have chere of neweltees in the chamber.' as 

luncate,^ cheryes, pepyns, and such neweltees as the junket, pippins. 

tyme of the yere requereth ; or ellis grene ginger com- or green singer: 

fetts,' with such thynge as wynter requereth; and 

swete wynes, as ypocrasse, Tyre, musciuiell, bastard and sweet wines. 

> I do not suppose that each guest retired to his own bed-room, 
but to the general withdrawing-room, — possibly used as a 
general bed-room also, when the Hall had ceased to be it. '* The 
camera usually contained a bed, and the ordinary furniture of a bed- 
chamber; but it must be remembered that it still answered the 
purpose of a parlour or sitting-room, the bed being covered over 
during the daytime with a handsome coverlid, as is still the custom 
in France & other foreign countries to this d&y^—DometticArehL 
tteture, m, 94-5. 

> See loneaU in Index, and Russell, 1. 82. 
' See Eussell, I. 75, and, for wines, 1. 117- 



374 



FiOR TO SBRYB A LORD. 



vemage, of the beste that may be had, to the honor and 
lawde of the principall of the house. 

[XI. HofW to Carve.] 
Howtocarrea to lose and trilre or sawse a capon :' begynne at the 

Swan. GooM, ^ ' xr oj 

lifte legge first of a Swan* ; & lyfte a gose y-reared at the 

wud-fowu cno«, right legge first, and soo a wilde fowle. To nnlose, tire, 

or display a crane': cutte away the nekke in a voyde 
plate, rere legge and whyngge as of a capon ; take of ij 
leches of the briste, and cowche legge and whyngge and 
lechis into a faire Toyde plater ; mynse the legge, and 
poyntes of whinge ; sawse hym "with, mustard, vinager, and 
ponder gynger, and serve hit before the soyrayne, and 
the carcas in a charger besyde : serve it hole before the 
sovrayne. and he* may be served and dressed as a capon, 
save one thyng, his breste bone.' To tyre or ellis to 

Heronaew. dismember^an heronsew^ : rere legge and whinge as of 

a crane ; cowche them aboute the body on bothe sydes, 
the hedde and the nekke being upon the golet : s«rve 
him forth, and yf he be mynsed, sawse hym with 
mustard, burage,^ suger, and powder of gynger. 

Bittam. To lose or untache a bitom* : kitte his nekke, and 

lay hit by the hedde in the golette ; kitte his whynge 
by the joynte ; rere hym legge and whynge, as the heron ; 
serve him fourth ; no sawse unto hym but only salte. 

Egret, To lose or spoyle an Egrete * : rere uppe his legge 

^ There must be some omission here. See Bussell, 1. 409, and 
W. de Worde, p. 276. 

s See Bussdl, 1. 403. Wynkyn de Worde, p. 275, directs the 
swan to be carved \i\e the goose is, p. 277. 

« See Bussell, L 427-32 ; Wynkyn de Woide, p. 276. Mere is 
cut off. * thai is, the crane. 

> See Russell, 1. 431 and note ; W. de Worde, p. 273, 1. 6 ; 
p. 276. 

» Russell, 1. 422; Wynkyn de Worde, p. 276, p. 278, 1. 20. 

^ Borage is a fayourite flaTouring for cups and other drinks. 

8 Russell, 1. 421 ; Wynkyn de Worde, p. 276. 

• Russell, 1. 421 ; Wynkyn de Worde, p. 276. 



A FESTE FOB A BRYDB. 375 

and whynge, as of a henne, abonte the carcas: no sawse 
to him but salte. 

To tyre or to ele* a partorich^ or a quayle' PMtrid«», Qiuu. 
y-whyngged: rere uppe whynge and l^ge, as of an 
henne ; cowche them aboute the carcas ; no sawse saye 
salte, or jnnstaid and sugar. To lose or imlase a 
fesaunt^ : rare uppe legge and whynge as an heimQ Phennat. 
cowche legge and whynge aboute the carcas ; serve 
hym fourth ; no sawse but salte : but and yf he be 
mynsed, take whyte wyne, sugur, mustard, and a lyttell 
of powder gynger. 

' ffor to make a feste for a bryde. i.^'^ *'*■* 

The ffirst cours: brawne, with the boiys bed,' Boar's hewi, »nd 

^ -^ ' A Device 

lying in a f elde, hegge ^ about ynih a scriptur, sayng 
on this wyse ; 

^ Welcombe you bietheren godely in this hall ! ^ of wekone. 
Joy be unto you all 
that en' this day it is now fall ! 
that worthy lorde that lay in an Oze stalle 
mayntayne your husbonde and you, witfe your gystys, 
aUe!'' 

Ffuimente wtt^ yeneson, swanne, pigge. Venbon and 

Cuterd, with a 

Ff esaunte, wtt^ a grete custard, wet^ a nerice of 

sotelte, 
A lambe stondyng'in scriptour, sayng on this wyse : Meeiaie«. 
** I mekely unto you, sovrayne, am sente, 
to dwell with you, and ever be present." ^ 

' Fr. aiU^ wing ; bat aiier, to giye wings onto. Gotgnye. 
« Bonell, 1. 397, L 417 ; W. de Wordo, p. 27«- 
' Riinell» L 437 ; W. de Worde, p. 276. 
« EoMeU, L 417 ; Wynkjn de Worde, p. 275, p. 278. 
* See the carol from the Porkington MS., « The Boris hede 
fixnte,'* in Mdiq, Ant, t<^ ii., aad helow. 

* hedged or edged. ' The rene is written as prose. * on 



374 



PFOB TO 81SBVB A LOBD. 

vernage, Of the berte that may be had, to the honor and 
lawde of the principall of the houae. 



[XI. How to Carve.'l 



at the 



XT6r(ni90w, 



Bifctoni« 



Kgret. 



Howtocarre. to lose and t[i]re or sawse a capon:* begynne 

^~' «-o. ^^ ^^^^ ^^ ^^ ^ g^^, ; & lyfte a gose r'^J^ 

wud-towi. QnxM, right legge first, and soo a wilde fowle. To uai » ^^ 

or display a crane' : cutte away the nette ma ^^ 
plate, reie legge and whyngge as of a ^^^'' ^^ 

leches of the briste, and cowche legge and wnyngg ^^ 
lechis into a faire Toyde plater ; mynse the legge^ ^^ 
poyntes of whinge ; sawse hym wiU mustard, vinager, ^^^ 
ponder gynger, and serve hit before *® ^^^^^^^ the 
the carcas in a charger besyde : serve it hole ^ ^^^ 
sovrayne. and he* may be served and dress ^^ ^ 

save one thjrng, his breste bone.* To tyre ^ ^ 

dismember an heronsew ^ : rere legge an gydes, 

a crane ; cowche them aboute tbe body on ^^^^ 

the hedde and the nekke being npon the go e^ ^^^ 
him forth, and yf he be inynsed, sawse V^ 
mustard, burage,^ suger, and powder of gy^e^ ' ^^ ^^ 
To lose or untache a bitom* : Htte his ^ J^^ 
lay hit by the hedde in the golette ; kitte '^^^^^^J 
by the joynte ; rere hym legge and ^^^^^^^^^y galtc 
serve him fourth ; no sawse unto hym ^ ^ ^^^ 
To lose or spoyle an I^rete» : rere uppe 

. ^ See Bnssell, 1. *09, 

J There must be some omiasioii nere. 

W. de Worde, p. 275. .„ ^ ., Worde, p. 276, direct 

« See EusseD, 1. 403. l^ynlLyii de Worae, v 

Bwan to be carved like the goose is, p- ^7 '!«. ^^ p. 276. ^ 
» See Eas«ell, L 427-32 ; ^W^yn^y^ ^\ ^^ .^ ^be crane. 

«^' ^ff- , * . W do ^orde, p. 273, 

» See RusseD, 1. 431 and note , w . « 

p. 276. -«r rflp D 276, p. 278,1- 1 

• Rn«en, 1. 422; Wyn^r^ ^® - ^for <mT>s and other dri' 
' Borage is a faronritc ^^^^^^"^11 ^21^. 
» Russell, L 421 ; Wynlcyx. do Wo F ^^^ 

• RusseU, 1. 421 ; VTy^^y^ ^ ^oia , f 



* m 



A S 



98 



•UH. 







I < 



'2U 



»» •* :*i 



»'•••♦••« 









* f 






•rf w » I* »^» I 



kf, 












T17-' 



rii A 






*^fl^ 



*•:::. a-.. 



377 

niaeof , 



- M 



*:. 



xr 



« ^ ^ 



25 



376 



A FB8TB FOB A BBYDE. 



0MOIMI VOWTK. 

YenJflon. 
Cmne, Ac, 
and a Devioe of 



Qladnen and 
Loyaltj. 



TMrdC<mrm. 

Sweeto, fte.. 
Game, with a 



Derleeof 
ThaDkMuiM. 



Fcwrik (kmnt. 



The second course. 

Veneson in broth, viannde Eyalld *, yeneson rosted, 
crane, cony, a bake mete, leche damaske*, yriMh a 
sotelte: An anteloppe sayng' on a sele that saith 
with scriptour 

^' beith all gladd & meiy that sitteth at this messe, 
and prayeth for the kyng and all his."^ 

The thirde course. 

Creme of Almondys, losynge in syruppe, betoura, 
partrich, plover, snyte, ponder veal, leche veal, wollis* 
in sotelte, Eoches in sotelte,^ Playce in sotelte ; a bake 
mete yri\h a sotelte : an angell wttA a scriptour, 
" thanke all, god, of this feste." 



The ii\j cours. 

SiS"Sw*^ Payne puff,^ chese, freynes,* brede bote, with a 
Child-bearing cake,' and a wif lying in childe-bed, witfe a scriptour 

^ Here is the Recipe in Houa$hold Ordmanen, &c., p. 455,* for 
" Viande BiaU for xl. Mess :" 

Take a galone of remage, and sethe hit into iij. quartes, and take 
a pjnte therto, and two poonde of sugre, ii lb. of chardekoynea 
[quinces ? ' Quynce, a frute, pomme de ^uoffn, Palsgrare] a 
ponnde of paste -roiale, and let hit sethe nntyl a galone of yemage. 
Take the yolkes of 60 eyren, and bete horn togeder, and drawe hom 
thurgh a straynonr, and in the settynge doune of the fyre pntte the 
jolkes therto, and a pynte of water of ewrose, and a qoartrone of 
ponder of gynger, and dresse hit in dysshes plate, and take a barre of 
golde foyle, and another of sylver foyle, and laye hom on Seint 
Andrews crosse wyse above the potage ; and then take sngre plate 
or gynger plate, or paste royale, and kntte hom of losenges, and 
plante hom in the yoide places betweene the barres : and senre hit 
forthe. 

> Leyse Damask. Leland, Coll. iv. p. 226 ; Leche Damaske, 
ibid. vi. p. 5 ; in Forme of Cury, p. 141. 

' ? Fr. Hoir, to sit. 

* Written as prose, which it is. > ? welkis. 

> Boches or Loches in Egurdonoe. H. Ord, p. 469. 

^ See the Becipe forit, p. 148, note ' ; and in HouuehM Ordi' 
nanees, p. 460. 

> flannes ? see p. 287 ; or cKne^freynn for cheesecakes. 

* Were the cheese and cake meant as a symbol of the Groaning 



A FESTE FOB A BRTDE. * 377 

samg in this wyse, " I am comyng toward your "bryde. •ndapnmitoaof , 

yf ye diiste onys loke to me ward, I wene ye nedys 

muste."' 

Another course or servise. 

Brawne with mustard, imihlys of a dere or of a 
sepe ' ; swanne, capon, lamhe. 



Cake ft Cheese (so called in aHudon to the mother's complaints 
at her delivery) mentioned by Brand, Fdp» Ani. ii. 44, ed. 1841, 
• or was the cake the wedding-cake ? 

> } most get ababy : or is yd » I? ' sheep. 



26 



378 



C^e Pons^olb 5tuf omi^\t)i at % 
forb Pagor's J'tast, a>. xsos. 



[J5aZZ«oZ if/Sf. 354, # C iii. AU the final U's are 

crossed in ike MS.^ 

here ffolowith suclie howsliold stuff as must 
neditf be ocupied at tliQ mayres fest yerely 
kepte at th% yelde liall. 

fi^t, V diaper table clothes // iiij Cowchers * of 
playiS clothe // ii\j longe towelli* of dyapcr // Item x *l 

nap^ry doz napkyns / Item ij doz Ewiy towelliV. liefin viy 
shetw for coberde clothes // Item a doz couer-payns ' 
ffor wafere. 

% Receyte for ypocras. 

If Item Cynamow x 11 / Gynger iiij 11 / Grayns j 11 / 
Suger iiij 11 // 

% Butlers towellw. 

% xxxvj butlers towell?>, ^^e length of a towell an 
ell ^ a half^ jj & quarter brode / that is, iiij towellt* 
of an ell ^ a half,^ of ell brode clothe. 

% ffor the mayres offessers. 

If ffiist ffor sewers & carwers / iiy towellt9 of fyno 
clothe, \j ellf .» longe, & half a yarde brode, Bumma iiij 
elli9. 

> Cp. Ruflsell, L 187, p. 129. 

3 See Bussell's portpof/ne, I. 262, p. 138. > MS. ell d. 



HOUSEHOLD STUFF AT THE LORD HATOR'S FEAST. 379 

ffor drawers of ale & wyne. [ffl c ly i»ck.] 

viij apums, Bumma viij eUis ^ Item x portpayns 
to bere in brede / ^ stamina xxxviij elhV. 

IT wyne. 

Rede wyne, a tonne / Claret wyne, a pipe ; whit 
wyne, a hoggwhede / ypocras xl. galons. 

1 Brede. 

viij quarters of chet brede / In manchettis v\j» • In 
trewchar brede viij" / In ob * brede iiij ; Item in wafers 
ix" messe' / & the waferer must brynge Couerpayns for 
to serue owt hia wafers. 

% Ale pottw & Tappis. 

xxviij barrell/^ ale / Ertbeil pott/* for wyne & ale 
Ix doz // pychars xij doz / ij doz stenya * Itewi viij C 
assheil cuppis / iiij doz tappis. 

•J plate. 

Item iiij doz stondyng Cuppis / xxiiij doz bolli^ 
Ite7n V doz salt;^ : xl doz spones / ij doz gUt sponys / 

> I suppose this and the following s'es to mean ahiUinga, 

3 ob bred is ha'penny bread. On ffl C xyiij of the MS. is 
The Assise of Bred with-in London. 

The qiMrUr whet at iij* // afW ▼*. 

The fferdyng whit loff coket / xrij oz & d [»i] k ob weight * 
The ob [ha'penny] whit loff zxxv Tnct> & j d weight 
The q>t symnell xt oz ij d ob in weight 

The ob whet loff lij oz d. & j d ob weight 

The peny whet loff Ct oz d & qt4arter Sc ob weight 

The ob lof of all groynes Ixx oz & ij d weight 

* ix xxb9 X 20, a 180. mesae may be in efe : the long s*es are 
crossed like f 's. 

* Stean, a stone resseL ' A great pot or atean^* Hollyband's 
Dictionarie, 1593. HalUwell. 

* Half a ponnfwelghi. -f ? quadranta, fiuthing. 

25 • 



380 HOUSEHOLD STUFF AT THE LORD MATOB's FEAST. 

xvi^ basons with ewers / a payyer of gilt basons // xx 
siluer poiiis» 

Explicit the butlers charge 

that he must speke ffor. 



pewt^ at the feste 
ffirst in platters gret & small x\j " x dozen ^ 
It^m dyshis gret & small — ^xij " x doz^ ^ 
Item in saws^rs gret & small x^^ x doz^n ^ 
Item in chargers gret & small x doz^n 

At the gyyjng vp of the verder of the wardmot 
InquesttV after xij*** day. 

In dishis xx dozen // In platers x dozen // 
In sawsers i\j dozen // In chargers j dozen 

ffor the wacche at mydsomer 
In platters x^ dozen // In dyshes xxiiij dozen 

all this was in ^^e tyme of lohfi wyngar, mayre 
of london. 

for the hire viy^ the gamyshe of pewfer 



Lord Mayor Whyngar was Eichard Hill's master. 
On ffl C Ixxvj of the MS. is the entry, " Iste liber per- 
tineth Rycardo Hill, seruant wit/t Master Wynger 
alderman of london.** 

At the back of fid \jG xx of the MS., in the list of 
Mayres & Sheryffilff, is this entry : 



[1]605 Johfi Wyngar Eoger Acheley . ^ 

WillMun brown 



I 

(Kyng Henry the vij*"*). 



i?(12x 20+10)12^^3000. 



381 



CJe tsxkt oi gagng 0r sittpg/ 



[BaUtol MS. 354, ffl C Ixxxxi, or leaf 203, back] 



A pope hath no pere ' 

An emprowT6 A-lone 

A kyng A-lone 

An high cardynall 

A pWnce, A Isjugis son 

A duke of blod Eoyall 

A busshop 

A markes 

Anerle 

•A vycownt 

A legate 

A barofi 

An abbot mytered 

the ij cheff lugys 

the mayre of londofl 

the chif barofi of the 

cheker // 
An Abbot without myt^r 
A knyght 
A pryouie 



A deafie 

An Arche-dekofi 

the Master of ^^e rollis 

the vnder lugis 

tJie vnder barons of the 

cheker 
the mayre of caleis 
A provyncyall 
A doctur of diuinite 
A prothonotory ys boue • 
the popes colectour ^ 
A doctur of both laves 
A sergeant of lawe 
the Movers of channseiy 
A persofi of Chyrche 
A secnler prest 
A marchafit 
A gentylmafl 
An Artificer 
A yeman of good name 



^ Compare with RasBell, p. 186-7, and Wynkyn de Worde, p. 
284-5. It differs little from them. 

' This is struck through with a heayy hlack-line. 

9 Last letter blotched. 

* Struck through with seToral thin lines. 



382 



f atin §xms. 



(From the Balliol MS, 354, leaf 2.) 



['' These graces are the usual ones still said in all colleges and religious 
communities abroad, and are for some part those given at the end of each of 
the four volumes into which our Roman Breviaries for the year are divided. 
As a youth, while studying at Rome, I used to hear them in our hall ; and, 
knowing them by heart, never found them too long." — Daniel Rock, D.D.] 

A ffenerai Grace. The gracB that sliuld be sald afifoTO mete & 

after mete / alt the tymes in the yere. 

Theeyeaofau Benedicito I dommus. Oculi omnium in te sperant, 

wait upon thee, 

Lord. domine / et tu das escafn illon^m in tempoie oportuno. 

Aperis tu manum tuam / & Imples omne Animal bene- 

diccione. 
plSh^r*^**** Gloria patri & filio : & spi/i'^i aancio. Sicut erat 

in principio, & nunc, et semper : & in secula seculoruTn. 
Lord, have mercy Amen. kyrieleyBon, c^m/eleyson, kyrieleyBon : patei: 

no^er. Et ne nos : Bed libera nos : Oremus. 
Lord, biesa us. Beuedic, domiuB, nos, & dona tua que de tua largitate 

sumz^ sumpturi / per / lube domme benedicere. 
Make OB partaken MeiiSB celestw participes faciat nos Rex eteme 

of the heavenly ^ -^ 

table. glorie / Amen / Deus caritas est : & qui manet in 

caritate, in dec manet, & deus in eo : Sit deu^ in nobis, 
& nos maneamt^^ in ipso. Amen. 

^J^^^**"' post prandium. 

Mny the God of Deus pacis & dUeccionis maneat 8emp<?r nobiscum : 

peace be with ua I > / «« 

Tu autcm, domine, miserere noetn : Deo grac?as / Con- 

fiteantur iibiy domme, omnia tua. Et sancti tui bene- 

We thank thee, dicant tibi / Gloria : Ammwa iihi gracias, omnipotens 

Lord, for th7 ' ^ - r\ - • - a^ 

beneflta. deits, pro vniuersis beneficijs tuis. Qui viuis & regnas 

deus : Per omma secula seculorww : Amen. 



LATIN GRACEiS. 3§3 

Laudate domimcmj omnea gentes : laudaie earn, 
omnes populi. QiLontam confirmata est super nos misen- 
eordidk eiua : & Veritas ^omim manet i» etemum. Gloria Lord, h*ve mercy 

. . upon ml 

pafta : Sicut erat : kyrieleyson, c/im^eleyson, kin- christ^iMTemerey 
eleyson / fatet fmstei / Et ne nos. Sed libera. uponiw. 

IHspersit, dedit pauperibus : lusticia eius manet in 
seculum aecuU. : "Benedicam dommum. in omni tempore : iwniwaMthe 
Semper laus eit^ in ore meo : In domno laudabitur 
anima mea : Audiant mansueti, & letentur : Hagnificate 
domiman. mecum. Et exalteni?^^ * nomen eius in id 
ip^mm : Sit nomen domini benedictuw : Ex hoc nunc M«y *>>• n*™« <>' 
& raqiis in eeculum: Oremus : Betribuere dignare, bi«ued for even 
dominQ deus, omnibe^^ nobis bona ffacientibt^ propt^ 
nomen sanctum tuum, vitam etemam : Amen : 'Bene- 
dicamus dommo: Deo grac^os. Aue regina celorum, H»ii.Qaeenof ' 

Hesveiit 

mater Tegt> angelomm: O mana, flos verginuyn, velilt ^ ,_,__, , 

flower of TiTgliit ! 

rosa vel liliuTTt, funde preces ad filium pro salute fidelium. P"y thy son to 
Auemaria. Meritei^ & precibt^ sue pie matris, benedicat fidthftiii 
nos filitM dei pafris / Amen. 

Un nisslie days. n^^ 

Benedicite ; dominus. Edent pauperes, & satuia- The poor diaii eat 

' r r > andhesetiefled. 

buntwr : et laudabunt d<?w?num qui requinint eum ; 

viuent coida eovum in sect^ltnn secz^li : Gloria 'patn. ®o«7betothe 

Sicut erat Ac kyrieleyson. c^nV/eleyson / kyrieleyson / 

'pater noster. Et ne nos : Sed libera : Oreniti^ : Benedic 

domtne : lube domine : Cibo sptn^alis alimonie reficiat 

nos rex eteme clone / Amen. Gracia domini nostri T**!*?**®^,, 

° ' Lord Jenia Chrlat 

Ihega christi, & caritas dei, & co^nmunicacio sancti 
spirits sit semper cum omnibw^ nobis. Amen / A in '*^*'»"«"« 
lent leve / Gracta dom« ni // A say // Frange esurienti Jj^^^y ^^^^ 
panem tuum^ A egenos vagosqtw indue in domum tuam: ?!JJ*J!^'*J£^' 
cum videris nudum operi eum. [et clamem tuam ne wanderer to thy 

~, home. 

despexeris : ait dommus omntpcte[ns]. 

Grace after dynere. JlT^ ^^ 

Deus paci[s &c. Memori]am' fecit mirabilium suorum 

> MS. exdtemfM. * Only half the & is left 



384 LATIN GRACES. 

miaericoxs A [miseiator dominu\B ; escam dedit tunenti- 
hue 86. Gloria. Sic[iit erat^ &c.] 

Four Short Short grace afifore djner. 

I, Before immr, Bencdicitej dominu[3\^ .... Apponenda b^nedicat 
dei dextera. [In nomine patris &] filii A spiritus sandi / 
amen. 

1. j^Meau. Shorte grace after dyner / A after soper / bothe. 

BieM the Lord ppQ ^ali conuiuio benedicamiM domino : Deo groctas. 

Kater, oia filium vt post hoc exilium nobis donet 
Miry, pny tor ml gaudiuwi sine fine. Ane maria : / Oremus. Mentis A 

precibus. 

8. B^f&n Supper. q^^^ ^^j^ g^p^^ 

^ctffr Sto Benedicite * ; domimis : Cenam sanctificet qtd nobis 

■opp«» omnia prebet : In nomine po/ris. 

L' A/ur Supper. ^ Giace after soper. 

In idihfaf worta^ Bencdictu^ deus in donis suis : Et sanctus in omnibtM 

operibtttf suis / Adiutorium no^^rum in nomine domim : 
Qui fecit celum et terram. Sit nomen dtmitni bene- 
dictum / £x hoc nunc, et vsq^xe in secultan / Oremus : 
Meritis et precibtw sue pie matris benedicat nos filiti^ 
dei patris. 

o%Ea$ter-Ev. ^ In yigilia pascho. 

Benedicite ; damintta. Edent paupeies &c. Oloria 
Chriit,hiTemerc7 patn, Sicut eiat : kirieleyson. c^rM^eleyson. kyrielejson. 

UpOll OS I 

Taier noster : Et ne nos. Set libera. Oremu«/Benedic 
domme : lube domme benedicere / Cibo sptW/ualis ali- 
monie A cetera / leccio / Si consurrezisttff cun» ehristo^ 

SMkfhoMthingt q^e sursum sunt, querite vbi christm est in deztera dei 
sedens. 

gni«<i/tw post prandiuTn. 

OodofPMot. Deus pacis A dileccionis : Memoriam fecit / Gloria 

1 An inch of the MS. broken away. 
' MS. BenedictuB, aUtr$d to Benedicite. 



BleMedbetlw 
name of the Lord. 



LATIN QRAOKfl. 385 

poM Sicut erat : Agunns tiH flrracias. Laudate dom/num wo giv thm 

'^ '^ ® thAnks, Lord. 

omnes gentes : Qt^oniam confirma[taJ : Gloria po/ri : Sicut 

erat Dommus vobiscum : £t cum s^iritoL tuo. Oremte^ / 

SptnYt^m in nobis, damme, tue caritatt^ infiinde, vt q uos Poor into ii> thy 

saciamentt9 paschalibtitf saciasti : tua facias pietate con^ 

coides// Per eundem domtnum nosttum ihe^z^m chriatuai^ through jenu 

Chriit our Lord> 

filium tuum : qi/i tecum viuit & regnat in ynitate eius- 

dem spzn^ussoTicti, deus / p^r omnia secula seculorum. 

Amen. 

^ In die pasche. onSattfr-Da^. 

Ben^cite. dommt/s. Hec dies quam fecit dommzxs, This iitho day 

^ ' which the Lord 

exultemtM Sn letemur in ea. Gloria pohi Sicut: hath made i 

Let na i^lolee and 

kineleysoTi. c^n^eleyson. kyrielejson: rater noster / heghuiinit. 
Et ne / Oremu^. Benedic damme : lube domine bene- Bie8iqa,OLordi 
dicere / Mense celestis Expurgate vetus fermentum ^ 
vt sitis noua conspersio, sicut estis asimi : Etenim pascha oo' i^Mover la 

, , alaln,eTeiiChxiat 

notf^rum immolatus est chridvA^ itaque epulemur in 
domino. 

^ post prandium. AJUrDimmtr, 

Qui dat escam omni cami, confitemini deo ceU. Tu 
autem: Laudate dominum. Qtzoniam confirmata / Gloria 
pcrfrL In resuneccione tua, chrtste. Celi & terra leten- or thy waor. 

TMtloQ, Chrlat, 

tur / alleZma. Oremt^. Spiritum in nobis &ce^era. the heavens and 

. the earth aie^ad. 

Per eundem : In vnitate eiusdem. Benedicamti« domino, 

deo gracias / % Eodem modo dicitur per totam ebdoma- Thanks he to 

dafn. Betribuere. 

Ante cenauL B^^nBupper, 

Benedicite. dommua. cenam sanctificet qui nobis 

omnia prebet / In nomine pa/ris & filii & spirit ussancti : 

Amen* 

T post cenam. Jjteraupper. 

Hec dies / : / Vsq. In resurreccione tua, chrtde / Thisiathe day, 

Celi & tern letentur. alleZuta. Dominus yobiscum : HaUei^iah. 

Et cum spiW^ tuo. SptV^um in nobis : Benedicamus JlJj^**^*'** 

dommo : Deo groc/as. 

Explicit 
^ MS. B^mneittmii.* 



386 



LATIN ORA0B8. 



Having thus given the Graces as they stand in the Mannscript^ I 
add the scheme of them which Mr Bradshaw has had the kindness to 
draw out He says, ^* Here is a case in which nothing hut parallel 
arrangement can afford a clue to the apparent confusion, ^e people who 
used these services were so thoroughly accustomed to them,tiiat a word 
or two was enough to remind them of what was to follow — sometimes a 
whole series of prayers, or verses and responds, or suffrages. If your 



THB GRACE THAT 8HULD BB SAID 

APFORE METE AND ATTEB METE ALL 

THB TTMES IN THE TERB. 

1.1 

iSacerdos) Benedicite. 

fSesp.) DominuB. 
Psalm) Ocali omnium in te 
sperant, domine: et ta das escam 
illomm in tempore oportuno. 

Aperis tu manam tnam: et im- 
ples onme animal benediocione. 

Gloria patri et filio: et spiritui 
sancto. 

Sicut erat in principio, et nunc, et 
semper: insecalaseculorum. Amen. 
EyneleYson. 
Gnristefeyson. 
Eyrieleyson. 

Pater noster . . . [i.e. the Lord's 
prayer.] 

{Saeerdos) Et ne nos [indacas in 
tentationem.J 

{Resp.) &d libera nos [a malo.] 

(Sacerdoi) Oremus. 

Benedic, domine^ nos, et dona tua 
que de tna Largitate sumus sumptnri. 
Per [christum dominum nostrum.] 

[Resp, Amen.] 

{Lector) lube domine benedicere. 

(Sacerdos) Mense celestis partici- 
pes faciat nos rex eteme glorie. 
Amen. 

(JLeciio) Dens caritas est, et qui 
manet in oaritate, in deo roanet, et 
deus in eo. Sit dens in nobis, et nos 
maneamus in ipso. 

iBetp.) Amen. 



ON 7ISSHE DAYS. 



1.2 



{Sacerdos) Benedicite. 

{Besp.) Dominus. 

{Psalm) Edent panperes, et satu- 
rabnntur, et laudabunt dominum qui 
requirunt enm: vivent corda eomm 
in seoolum seculL 

Gloria patri .... 

Sicut erat, &c 



Kyrielevson. 
Christeleyson. 
Eyrieleyson. 
Paternoster .... 

(JSacerdos) Et ne nos .... 

{Bssp.) Sed libera . . r. 
{Sacerdos^ Oremus. 
Benedic domine .... 



{Lector) lube domine . . . •. 

{Sacerdos) Cibo spiritualis ali- 
monie reficiat nos rex eteme glorie. 
Amen. 

\Leetio) Gracia domini nostri 
ibesu christi, et caritas dei, et com- 
municatio sancti spiritus, sit semper 
cum omnibus nobis. 

{Resp.) Amen. 

^And in lent leve ' Gracia Domini,* 
and say * 

{Lectio) Frange esurient! nanem 
tuum, et egenos Tagosoue inauo in 
domum tuam : cum viaeris nudum, 
Ojpjeri eum, et camem tuam ne despex- 
eris. Ait dominus omnipotens. 

IBesp, Amen.] 



LATIN QRACES. 



387 



object is to give people of the present day an idea of the meaning of 
these things, it is almost useless to print them straight as they are in 
the MS. Even as I have written them out, inserting nothing what- 
ever except the names of the speakers in a bracket, you will perhaps 
not catch much of the thread. You may remember that at Trinity 
even now it takes two people to say what is substantially the same 
Grace as thia'' 



IN VI61LIA PASCHE. 



{Sacerdos) Benedicite. 
iResp.) Dominus. 
IjPsalm) Edent panperes . 



1.3 



IN DIE PASCHE. 



1.4 



CSaeerdos) Benedicite. 
{JResp.^ Dominas. 
{Psalm) Hec dies quam fecit domi- 
nas : exultemos et letemur in ea. 



Gloria patri .... 

Sicut erat .... 

Kvnelevson. 
Christeieyson. 
Eyrieleyson. 
Pater noster .... 

iSaeerdoi) Et ne nos . . . 

(i2i?42D.) Sed libera .... 
(Saoerdos) Oremas. 
Benedic domine .... 



Gloria patri .... 

Sicut erat .... 

Kyrielevson 
Ghristefeyson. 
Kyrieleyson. 
Paternoster . . . . 

(Sacerdos) Et ne . 



(Sacerdos) Oremns. 
Benedic domine nos .... 



(Leeior) lube domine benedioere. 
(Sacerdos) Gibo spiritualis ali- 
monie, &c. 

(Leecio) Si consurrexistis cum 
christo, que sursum sunt querite, 
ubi chnstus est in dextera dei sedens. 



[Besp* Amen.] 



S Lector) lube domine benedicere. 
Sacerdos) Mense celestis .... 



(Lectio) Expurgate vetos fermen- 
turn, ut sitis nova conspersio sicut 
estis asimi : etenim pascna nostrum 
immolatas est christus. Itaque epa- 
lemur in domino. 

[Resp, Amen.] 



388 



LATIN GRACES. 



POST PBAKDIUK. 8.1 

iSacerdoi) Deiu paoia et dilec- 
cionis maneat semper nobiscam. Ta 
autem domine, miserere nostri. 

{Resp.) Deo gracias. 

iFsalm) Gonfiteantortibi, domine, 
omnia toa: et sancti toi benedicant 
tibi. 

Gloria [patri] .... 



{Cafdiulum) Agimus tibi gracias, 
omnipotens deus, pro uniyersis bene- 
ficiis tnis, qni vivis et regnas deos per 
omnia secnla seculorum. amen. 

(Psalm) Laudate dominnm omnes 
gentes : laudate eom omnes populi. 

Quoniam oonfirmata est super nos 
misericordia ejus : et Veritas domini 
manet in etemum. 

Gloria patri .... 

Sicut erat .... 
Kyrieleyson. 
Ghristeleyson. 
Kyrieleyson. 

Pater noster .... 

(Saeerdos) Et ne nos .... 

(Btsp.) Sed libera .... 

(Saeerdos) Dispersit, dedit pan- 
peribus : 

(Resp,) lostitia ejus manet in 
seculum seculi. 

(Saeerdos) Benedicam dominum 
in omni tempore : 

(Besp.) Semper laus ejus in ore 
meo. 

(Saeerdos) In domino laudabitur 
anima mea : 

(Besp ) Audiant mansueti, et le- 
tentur. 

{Saeerdos) Magnificate dominum 
mecum: 

(Resp,) Et exaltemus nomeu ejus 
in id ipsum. 



IOm Fisk Days.'] 

OBACE AFTE&-DYNS&. 

(Saeerdos) Deus pacis . . 



8.S 



(Psalm) [Memoriam] fecit mira- 

bilium suorum miserioors, et miserator 

dominus : escam dedit timentibus se. 

Gloria .... 

Sic[at erat , . . (an ineh of ike 

MS. broken avay.) . .] 



LATIN GRACES. 



[0» Easier Eve.] 

F08T FRANDI17H. 



2.3 



[0» Easier Day.'] 

POST PBANDIUK. 



389 



2.4 



(Sacerdos) Deua pacis et dilec« 



cioms .... 



(Sacerdos) Qui dat escam omni 
canii : confitemini deo cell. To. antem 
* . . • 

[Besp, Deo gracias.] 



iPsalm) Memoriam fecit .... 



. • • • 



Gloria «... 
Sicnt erat • • . . 

CCapiiulum) Agimas tibi gracias 



.... 



« . ■ • 



• (Pfo/jvi) Laadatedominamomnes (P*fl^) Laudate dominum . 

gentes .... 

Quoniam confirmata .... Quoniam confirmata . . . . 



Gloria patri . . . . 
Sicut erat .... 



Gloria patri . . . 



... 



. • • • 



.... 



... 



• • • 



(Saeerdos) In resnrrectione tn% 
Cbriste: 

iEesp.) Celi et terra letentur. 
alleluia. 



390 LATIN GRACE& 

3.1 

(Saeerdos) Sit nomen domini bene- IBlanJk,} 3.2 

dlctam : 

(Betp,) £x hoc nunc, et usque in 
secttlum. 



• « • • 



iSaeerdot) Oremufl. 

Betribuere dignare, domine deus, 
omniboB nobis bona facientibus, 
propter nomen sanctum tuum, vitam 
etemam. amen. 



(Saeerdos) Benedicamus dommo: 
{Be^,) Deogracias. 



(Aniiphona de sancta maria.) 
Ave regina celorum 
Mater regis angelorum 
O maria flos verginum 
Velut rosa vel lilium 
Funde preces ad filium 
Fro salute fidelium. 
{Vers.) Ave Maria .... 
iflratio) Mentis et precibus sue 
pie matris, benedicat nos filius del 
patris. amen. 



LATIN GRACES. 



391 



3.3 



3.4 



iSacerdos) Dominas vobiscum : 

{Besp,) Et cam spiritu tuo. 

iSacerdot) Oremas. 

Spiritom in nobis, domlne, tne 
caritatu infonde, ut qnos sacramentis 
paschalibos saciasti, tua facias pietate 
Concordes. Per eundem dominum nos- 
trum ihesum christum, fillom tuum, 
qui tecTim vivit et regnal in uuiiate 
ejosdem spiritus sancti, deus per 
omnia secula secolorum. amen. 



{Sacerdo3) Oremus. 
Spiritom in nobis, &^c. Per eun- 
dem, &o., in nnitate 



(Sacerdos) Benedicamus domino : 
iResp,) Deo gracias. 
Et eodem modo dicitur per toiam 
ebdomadam, 

Eetribuere .... 



392 LATIN GRACES. 

4.1 IOm Fuk Dofs ] 4.3 

SHORT 6&ACB A7F0BJB DTKEB. 

iSacerdoi) Benedicite. [Blank,'] 

{Retp.) Dominaa, 

iSacerdos) .... apponenda bene- 
dicat dei dextera .... [In nomine 
patria et] filii et spiritns sancti. 
amen. 

SHORTB O&ACB APTEE DYNEE & 
AFTEE SOPEE BOTHE. 

iSaeerdos) Pro tali oonyivio bene- 
dicamos domino. 

(Besp.) Deo gracias. 
{Aniipkona de saneia maria) 
Mater ora filium 
Ut post hoc exiliam 
Nobis donet gaudium 

Sine fine. 
{Fers,) Aye Maria , . • 
(Sacerdoi) Oremns 
Mentis et precibns .... 



LATIN ORAOES. 393 

lOn Etut^ Eoe.^ 4.3 lOn Easter Day.'] 4.4 

IBlaMi.] iBlani.'] 



26 



394 LATIN GRAOES. 

5.1 lOn FUhBays.'i 5.S 

GRACE AFFOBE SOPEB. 

(Sacerdot) Benedicite. {Blank,'} 

(Itesp,) Dominos. 

iSacerdos) Cenam sanctificet qui 
nobis omnia prebet. In nomine 
patris .... 

GRACE AFTER SOFER. 

(JSacerdoi) Benedictas deus in 
donis Buis : 

{Resp.) Et sanctos in omnibus 
operibus sois. 

{Sacerdos.) Adjntorium nostrum 
in nomine domini : 

{Resp.) Qui fecit celum et terram. 

{Sacerdos) Sit nomen domini 
benedictum ; 

{Resp,) Ex hoc nunc et usque in 
seculum. 



• • • 



(Sacerdos) Oremus. 
Meritis et precibus sue pie ma- 
tris, benedicat nos filius dei patris. 



• • • 



LATIN GRACES. 395 

[Oft Easl^ Eoe,^ 5.3 [Ou Easier Day. ^ 6.4 

AliTE CENAM. 

IBlank,] (JSacerdos) Benedicite. 

{Resp,) Dominus. 

(Sacerdos) Cenam sanctificet qui 
nobis omnia prebet. In nomine patris, 
et filii, et spirit us sancti. amen. 

POST CENAM. 

(Sacerdos) Hec dies .... 

{Sacerdos) In resurrectione tua, 
christe : 

{Resp,) Celi et terra letentur. 
alleluia. 



(Sacerdos) Dominus vobiscum : 

{Besp.) Et cum spiritu tuo. 

{Sacerdos.') 

Spiritum in nobb .... 

{Sacerdos) Benedicamus domino 
{Eesp.) DeograciaSv 

EXPLICIT. 



26* 



396 



SCHEME OF THE LATIN GRACES, 



Before 
dinner 



After 
dinner 



Short 
Graces 



Common 
Days. 



[ 



Before 
and after 
wpper 



Fast 
Days. 



Easter 
Eve. 



Easter 
Day. 



1.1 

A 


1.2 
D 


1.3 
H 


1.4 
L 


2.1 
B 


2.2 
E 


2.3 
I 


2.4 
M 


3.1 
C 


3.2 
blank 


3.3 
K 


3.4 

N 


4.1 
F 


4.2 
blank 


4.3 
blank 


4.4 
blank 


6.1 
G 


5.2 
blank 


5.3 
blank 


5.4 




Before 
dinner 



I After 
J dinner 



Short 
Graces for 
either 
dinner or 
snpper 

Before 
and after 
supper 



Common Fast Easter Easter 

Days. Days. Eve. Day. 

The alphabetical order is that in which the matter is found 
imtten in the manuscript. 

Henbt Bradbhaw. 



397 

C^e ^m \t)n imst 

[Porhington MS, No. I0,fol 202 ; fab. 1460-70 A.D.] 

Hey, hey, hey, hey, pe borrys hede is armyd gay ! * 

The boria hede in hond I bryng 

W'/tt garlond gay in porttoryng. 

I piay yow all vritt me to synge [Fol 202 6.j 

Witt hay. 
%% Lordys, kny3ttw, and skyers. 
Persons, prystis and wycare, 
The boiis hede ys fQ fur[s]t mes, 

W? tt hay. 
%% The boris hede, as I yow say, 

He takis his leyfe, & gothe his way 
Soft a£tur pe xij theylffyt day, 

Witt hay. 

%% Then commys in pe secund kowis with mekyll 
piyde, 
pQ crann/^ & pe heyrrouws, pe byttwris by pe syde, 
pe partrychys & pe plowers, pe wodcuki? & pe 
snyt, 

Witt hay. 

^% Larkys in hoot schow,^ ladys for to pyk, 
Grood drynk perto, lycyvs and fyn, 
Blwet of allmayfl,' romnay and wyin, 

Witt hay. 

%^ Gud * bred, alle & wyin, daer I well say, 

p* boris hede wttt mnsterd armyd soo gay, 
^^ fuTmante to pidtage,* w*tt wennissun fyfi, 

& p® hombnls of pe dow, & all pot evier commis in, 
^^ Cappons I-bake witt p® peeys of p® roow, 

Eeysons of conans, witt odyre spysis moo, 

[incomplete.'] 

> " When you print I recommend that the first line of the MS. 
< Hey, hey,' &c. should stand alone in two lines. They are the 
hnrthen of the song, and were a sort of accompaniment, or under- 
song, snng throughout, while an upper yoice sang the words and 
tune. You will see numhers of the same kind in Wright's Songs 
and Carols printjBd by the Percy Society. It was common in the 
14th and 16th centuries." — ^Wh. Chafpbll. 

This Carol is printed in Beliq, Anttg.<, toI. ii., and is inserted 
here— co])ied from and read with the MS. — to fill up a blank page. 
The title is mine. 

' ? sewe, stew. ' ? the name of a wyne. Becipes for 

the dish Br<mei ofAImayne (H. 0.), JBrnoet o/Almony, Sreuet de 
AUnondtj are in Household Ordinances, p. 466 ; Forme of Cury, 
p. 29, and Liber Cure Cocorum, p. 12. ^ ? MS. End. 

' Recipe for iKOage d4 Fnmmty in Household Ordinances, p. 426. 



398 



CJe ^m^B %tA 



[Balliol MS. 364, ffl. ij C xij, or leaf 228.] 



Caput Apri Refero, . ^ 

fote 



tno. j 



Kesonens laudes d^TTntno, 

The boris hed In hondz^ I brynge 
with garlond/** gay & byrdw syngynge : 
I pray you all helpe me to synge, 
Qui estis in conviuio. 

The boris hede, I vndeistond, 

ys cheffe seruyce in all this londe : 

wher-so-ever it may he fonde, 

Seruitur cum sinapio. 

The boris hede, I dare well say, 
anon after the xij*** day 
he taketh his leve &, goth arway, 
Exiuit tunc de patria. 

See other carols on the Boar's Head, in Songs and 
CaroJSy Percy Soc., p. 42, 25 ; Eitson's Ancient Songs; 
Sandys's Carols and Chridmastide, p. 231, from Eitson, 

different version of the present carol, — &c. ( 



399 



Chadren, attend! 



Sjmon's %mm d Wipt)imt for all 

[From MS. Bodl 832, leaf 174.] 

[The Rey. J. R. Lumby has kindly sent me the following amusing 
• lesson of wysedome ' to * all manor chyldryn*, signed Symon, which he found 
in the Bodleian. Mr G. Parker has read the proof with the MS. Lydgate 
sinned against most of its precepts. It makes the rod the great persuader to 
learning and gentleness.] 

All maner chyldryn, ye lyften & lere 

A leffon of wyfedome fat ys wryte her« ! 

My chyld, y rede \e be wys, and take hede of 
fis lyme ! 
4 Old men yn prouerbe fayde by old tyme 

* A chyld were beter to be vnbore 

Than to be vntaught, and fo be lore.' ^ 

The chyld fat hath hys wyll alway 
8 Shal thiyve late, y thei * wel fay, 

And f er-for euery gode mawnys chyld 

That Ib to wanton and to wyld, 

Leme wel this leiTon for fertayn, 
12 That thou may be f® beter man. 

Chyld, y wame fee yn al wyfe 

That f u tel trowth & make no lyes. 

Chyld, be not froward, be not prowde, 
16 But hold vp fy hedde & fpeke a-lowde \ 

And when eny man fpekyth to the, 

Do of f y hode and bow thy kne, 

And wayfch thy bander & f y face, 
20 And be curteys yn euery place. 

^ Compare " Botter ynfedde then yntaughte " in Seaget's Schook 
of VeriWy aboye, p. 348, L 725. > thee 



Tou'd be better 
anbom than 
untaught 

Ton mustn't have 
your own way 
always. 



Tell the truth, 
don't be ftroward, 

hold up your 

head, 

take off your hood 

when you're 

spoken to. 

Wash your hands 
and face. 
Be courteous. 



400 



BTMON*S LESSON OF WTSSDOME FOR OHTLDBTN. 



Don't throw 
stones at dofi 
Mid hogs. 

Mock ftt no ana. 



Don't 

Eftt trbat'i glyen 
you, 

and don't ask for 
this and that. 



Honoor yonr 
father and 
mother: 

kneel and ask 
their blessing. 



Keep 7onr clothes 
clean. 



Don't go bird's* 

nesting, 

or steal firult, 

or throw stones 
at men's windows, 



or plaj in choreh. 



Don't chatttf . 



Get home by 
daylight 



Keep clear of fire 
and water. 



and the edges of 
wells and brooks. 



And where fon comyi% with gode chere 

In halle or bowre, bydde "god be here !" 

Loke ^u caft to no mannes dogge, 
24 Wiih ftaff ne ftone at hois ne ho^^ ; 

TiOke fat you not fcome ne iape 

Nojjer with man, maydyn, ne ape ; 

Lete no man of fee make playnt ; 
28 Swerc ^u not by god noper by fayni, 

Loke fovL be curteja ftondyng at mete ; 

And fat men jeuytb ^e, foM take & ete ; 

And loke that fou nother crye ne ciave, 
32 And fay " that and that wold y have ; " 

But ftond foM ftylle be-fore J>* horde, 

And loke fan f peke no lowde worde. 

And, chyld, wyrfhep thy fader and thy mod^r^ 
36 And loke fat foM greve nofer on ne oper, 

But euer among fon fhalt knele adowne, 

And afke here blelTyng and here benefowna 

And, chyld, kepe thy doj^es fayre & clene, 
40 And lete no fowle fylth on hem be fene. 

Chyld, clem fou not ouer hows ne walle 

For no frute *, brydde*, ne balle ; 

And, chyld, cafb no ftonys oner men hows, 
44 Ne caft no ftonys at no glas wyndowys ; 

Ne make no crying, yapis, ne playes, 

In holy chyrche on holy dayes. 

And, chyld, y wame fee of anofer thynge, 
48 Kepe pee fro many worde« and yangelyng. 

And, chyld, whan fon goft to play, 

Loke fovL come home by lyght of day. 

And, chyld, I wame the of arnoper mater, 
62 Loke pou kepe pee wel fro fyre and water ; 

And be ware and wyfe how pat pou lokys 

Ouer any biynk, welle, or brokys ; 



1 Cp. Lydgate*s Tricks at School, Forewords^ p. xliv. 



symon's lesson of wtsbdomb fob ohyldbtn. 



401^ 



And when pou fbondylt at any fchate ', 

56 By wara and wyfe fat poM cacche no fj^e. 
For meny chyld -mihrout drede 
Ys dede or dyffeyuyd throw ywell hede. 
Chyld, kepe thy boke, cappe, and gLoays, 

60 And al thyng fat feQ hehouys ; 

And but ])ou do, foM fhat fare the woi8| 
And ^^-to be bete on ^ bare eis. 
Chyld, be fou Iyer nop^r no theffe j 

64 Be povL no mecher' for myfchefiEe. 

Chyld, make povL no mowys ne knakke^ 
Be-foie no men, ne by-hynd hera bakke^, 
Bat be of fayre femelaunt and contenaimce, 

68 For by fayre manerys men may pee a-vaunce* 
Qiyld wha7» fou. goft yn eny ftrete^ 
JSpoxL eny gode man or woman mete, 
Avale thy hode to hym oi to here, 

72 And bydde, " god fpede dame or fere ! " 
And be they imalle or grete, 
This leifon pat pon not for^ete, — 
For hyt is femely to euery mannys chylde,— 

76 And namely to clerked to be meke & mylde. 
And, chyld, ryfe by tyme and go to fcole, 
And fara not as Wanton fole, 
And leme as faft as pou may and can, 

80 For owre byfchop is an old man, 
And }>ar-for pou. moft leme faft 
Iff pou wolt be byflhop when he is paf t 
Chyld, y bydde J>e on my bleffyng 

84 That pan for-jete nat pis for no thyng, 
But pou loke, hold hyt wel on pj mynde, 

^ r meaning. Skaihie, a fence. Jamieson. Skaithy hurt, hann, 
HaUiweU. 

' A mychare Beems to denote properly a sneaking thief. Way. 
Prompt., p. 336. Myehare^ a coyetouB, sordid fellow. Jamieson. 
Fr. pUure-pain : m. A niggardlie wretoh ; a puling micher or 
miser. Gotgrare. 



OaftfirM 
Take care of yoor 
book, cap, and 
gloTea, 

or you'll be 
blrcbed on joor 
bare bottoim. . 

Dontbeallaror 
thtoC 



or make fkoea at 
any num. 



When Toaineei 
anyone^ 

lower yoor hood 
end wish *em 
*' god speed." 



Be meek to 
clerks. 

Rise early, 
go to school. 



and lean fltft 



if yon w»nt to be 
onr Uahopi 



Attend to aO 
these things, 



402 



STMON's LBBSON of WT8SD0MB FOR CHYLDRTK. 



for ft good child 
neoda learning. 

OMtmb.) 

•nd he who hates 
the chUd sparaa 
theiol 



AsaiqnimakeB 
a hone go. 

M a rod makei a 
child learn and 
be mild. 



80. ehlldren, 
dowelUandyoQll 
noigetaiound 
beating. 

Mjij Ck)d keep 
yoQgood! 



For y beft pu fhalt hyt f jmde ; 

Fpr, as J>e wyfe man fayth and preuyth, 
88 A leve chyld, I016 he be-hoayth ; 

And as men flaytli fat ben leiyd, 

He hatytb }>• cbyld fat fparyth J>* rodde ; 

And as fe vrjfe man fayth yn bis boke 
92 Off prooerbis and wyfedomes, bo wol loke, 

<< As a f harppe fpore makyth an bors to renne 

Vnder a man that fbold wene wynne, 

Ey^t fo a jerde may make a cbyld 
96 To leme welle hys leffon, and to be myld.'* 

Lo, cbyldryn, here may je al berg and fe 

How al cbyldryn chaftyd fbold be ; 

And ferioT, chyldere, loke Jwtt ye do well, 
100 And no barde betyng fball ye be-falle : 

Tbys may je al be rygbt gode men. 

God graunt yow grace fo to preferue yow. 

Amen ! 

Symon. 



403 



C|e ^irt^eb S^ool-^o^ 



OP ABOUT 1500 A.D. 



(From the Balliol MS, 354, ffl. ij C xxx.) 

[Afl old Symon talks of the rod (p. 400, 11. 90, 62), as Caxton in hb Book of 
Cartesye promises his ' Ijtyl John * a breechless feast, or as the Oriel MS. 
reads it, a ^byrchely'one,* & as the Forewords haye shown that yoong people 
did get floggings in olden time, it may be as well to give here the sketch of 
a boy, flea-bitten no doubt, with little bobs of hazel twigs, that Richard 
Hill has preserved for us. Boys of the present generation happily don't 
know the sensation of unwelcome warmth that a sound flogging produced, 
and how after it one had to sit on the bottom of one's spine on the edge of 
the hard form, in the position recommended at College for getting well for- 
ward in rowing. But they may rest assured that if their lot had fallen on a 
birching school, they'd have heartily joined the school-boy of 1500 in wishing 
his and their masters at the devil, even though they as truant boys had been 
'milking ducks, as their mothers bade them.'] 

hay ! hay ! by this day ! 

what avayleth it me thowgh I say nay ) 

^ I wold ffayfi be a darke ; Learning ia 

but yet hit is a strange werke ; * • w , 

the byrchyfl twyggw be so sharpe, th« wrch twig« 

hit makith me haue a faynt harts, 
what avayKth it me thowgh I say nay 1 

\ On moTiday in the momyng whafi I shall rise I'd sooner go so 

miles than go to 

at yj. of the clok,' hyt is the gise school on 



Mondays. 



^ See Gazton'B Book of Curtesye, in the Society's Extra Series, 
1868. 

' Compare the very curioua song on the difficulty of learning 
singing, in Beliquia Aniiqua, I 291, from Arundel MS. 292, leaf 
71, back. 

* See Rhodes, p. 72, 1. 61 ; and Seager, p. 338, 1. 110. 



404 



THB BIBOHED BCHOOL-BOT OF ABOUT 1500 A.D. 



to go to skole wtt^ont a-vise 
I had lever go zx^ myle twyse ! 
what ayaylith it me thowgh I say nay 1 



Mymastoraakt 
whcrt !>• bean. 



' Milking dneka,' 
IteUhlm, 



% My master lokith as he weie madde : 
^' wher hast ^^a be, thow sory ladde) " 
** Milked dukkw, my modei badde : " 
hit was no mervayle thow I were sadde. 
what yaylith it me thowgh I say nay 1 



■nd h« giVM BM 

pepper for 1th 



% My master pepered my ars with well good spede 
hit was worse thafi ffynkll sede ; 
he wold not leve till it did blede. 
Myche sorow haue be for his dede ! 
what yaylith it me thowgh I say nay ) 



lonlywUhlM 
wnaataare, and 
my book ft wild 



% I wold my master were a watt * 
& my boke a wyld Catt, 
& a brase of grehownd?^ in his toppe : 
I wold be glade for to se that ! 
what vayleth it me thowgh I say nay ? 



Mid all hb books 
dogi. 

WoQld'nt 1 blow 
mj horn I 
Don't I wiah ho 
wnadead! 



^ I wold my master were an haie, 
& all his bokt« howndt« were, 
& I my self a loly hontere : 
to blowe my horfl I wold not spare ! 
ffbr if he were dede I wold not care, 
what Yaylith me thowgh I say nay ? 

Explicit. 



1 a hare. 



405 



%\t 50110 of % 3t\ml '%^ at C|iistittas. 



[Printed also in Bdiquim Antiqua, 1. 116, 'From MS. Sloane, 
No. 1584, of the beginning of the sixteenth century, or latter pert 
of the fifteenth, fol. 33^., written in Lincolnshire or Nottingham- 
■hire, perhaps, to jndge by the mention of persons and plaoes, in 
the neighbourhood of Grantham or Newark.' 'J. 0. HaUiwell. ] 

Ante i&nem termini Bacnlas portaxaus, 
Caput hustiaiii fiEiangeie debemus ; 
Si preceptoi nos petit quo debemus Ire, 
Breuiter lespondemtM, *^ non est tibi scire." 
pro nobilis docter, Now we youe pray, 
Vt velitis concedera to gyff hue leff to play. 
Nunc proponimus Ire, without any ney, 
Scolam dissolvera ; I tell itt youe in fey, 
Sicut istud festum, mertb-is for to make, 
Accipimttf no«^rain diem, owr leye for to take. 
Post natale festum, full soi sball we qwake, 
Quum nos Eeyenimu«, latens for to make. 
Eigo nos Eogamus, bartly and boUe, 
y t isto die possimus, to brek upe t?ie scole. 



Non mmu8 bic peccat qui sensum condit in agio, 
Quam qui doctrinam Claudet in ore suo. 



PART IL 



SiW^ ^ JU $«Wi 



on 




un^x% mi IR^als 



m 



®h^ ®Ii^n ®im^, 



FROM MSS. IN THE IMPERIAL LIBRARY AT PARIS, 
THE BRITISH MUSEUM, LONDON, &c. 



fa Paniew be &t €fivAm a 



[MS. Bibl. Imper. No. 1370, f. fir. (anc. 74973), sur 
papier, XV* si^de. Soe another yersion, p. 16, below.] 



Se tu veulx estre bien comtoys, 
regarde ces reigles en fraii9oys : 
assez soavent tea ongles roignes, 
4 la longueur fait venir les roignes. 
lave tes mains [avant] digner, 
et aufisi quant vouldras souper. 
avant dl benedicite 
8 que preignes ta necessity 
siez toy, mengue sans contredit 
on lieu ou ton hoste te dit. 
du pain et du vin dois prendre, 

12 et Tautre viande attendre. 

le morcel mys hors de la bouche, 
k ton vaissel plus no Tatouciia 
ton morceau ne touche en salliere, 

16 car ce n*est jyas belle manieie, 
ne forge tes ' dens de la pointe 
de costely je t'en acointe. 
ne frote tes mains ne tes bras ; 

20 tien t*en le plus que tu pourras. 

puis a table ne crache point ; 

je te di que c'est ung let point. 

de ta toaille ne fais corde ; 

24 honnestete ne s'i accorde. 

a2 



[Fd. 147.] 
Lefc thft eourteoiumind 
these rulM. 

Pare your nails fireqnently. 



WMh your hands before 
dinner and sapper. 



Say grtfoe before eating. 



Sit where yoor host tells 
you. 



Take first bread and wine ; 
wait for other food. 



Don*t put sptt-oot food In 
your dish, 

or dip meat in the salt- 
cellar, 

P MS. lie surgetej 
or pick your teeth with the 
point of your knifo. 

Don*t scratch your hands 
or arms, 



or spit; that's bad 
manoers. 



Don't roll your napkin 
into a rope. 



LA MANIERB DE BE OONTENIR A TABLE. 



Keep the cloth clean ; 
collect your leavings. 
Don't stnfll 

0oa't go to ileep at table, 
or break wind. 



I>on*t auk your hoet for too 
much win^ 

or drink with a frothy 
mouth. 



or speak with a AiU one. 



Don't keep your bauds on 
the table. 



or wipe yoor teetti with 
the cloth. 



Be dteerftal and ooltured ; 



and if you Joke, despise no 
one. 



Among great folk be silent. 



Dont offer your leavings 
to any one. 

If your dish is taken away, 
say nothing. 

Drink moderately, so as not 
to muddle your head ; 

and don't fill your belly 
to spoil your fiue. 

If any one gives yon 
books. 



tien devant toy ton taillouer net^ 

en ung vaissel ton telle met ; 

ne veilles ton morceau conduire 
28 k ton d^sir, car trop pent nuyre. 

garde toy bien de sommeiller 

a table, ne de conseiller. 

s'entour toy a des gens grant rote, 
32 garde toy bien que tu ne routes. 

en plain digner, ne en la fin, 

n'eflforce Foste de son vin ; 

ne boy pas la bouche baveuse, 
36 car la coustume en est honteuse. 

ne parle pas la bouche plaine, 

car c'est laide chose et villaine. 

ne tien tes mains dessoubz la table, 
40 car c*est chose deshonnourable. 

de la nappe n'essuye tes dens, 

et si ne la metz point dedans. 

monstre toy joieux et aprins, 
44 ne di rien dont tu soyes reprins ; 

si tu te veulx fere priser, 

ne Tueilles nully mespnser ; 

il t*est conseill^ en la bible 
48 entre grans gens estre paisible. 

n'offre i nully, si tu es saige, 

le demourant de ton potaige. 

se on oste ung plat de devant toy, 
52 n'en fay semblant, mes tien te coy, 

boy simplement k toute feste 

aflin que n'afifolle ta teste, 

et ne remply pas tant ta pence 
56 qu*en toy n'ait belle contenanccs 

se on meet lievres ' en ta main, 

^ Le mot lievrea du manuscrit signifie evidemment ici 
' lirres' (liber). C'est peut-ctre une erreur de copiste poor 
* lettres ' (litterse, epistolie). H. Michelant. 



LA MAinERE DE BE OONTENIB A TABLE. 



meet les en ta manche ou [ton] sain. 

entre boire et vin tenir, 
60 ne yeilles long plait maintenir. 

si tu fais souppes en ung verre, 

boy le vin, ou le gecte k terre. 

se on sett du fruit au digner, 
64 n'en mengue point sans le layer. 

se tu es servy de fromaige, 

si en pren poy, n'en fay oultraige ; 

et si tu es servy de noix, 
68 si en menjue deux ou troys. 

et quant tes mains tu laveras, 

on bassin point ne cracheras. 

quant tu rendras graces k Dieu, 
72 si te tien en ton propre lieu; 

n^oblie pas les trespassez, 

souvengne-t-en tousjours assez. 

h ton hoste dois mercis rendre ; 
76 de ton aller dois congi6 prendre. 

se on donne k boire apres graces, 

soit en hanaps, voirres ou tasses, 

laisse premier boire ton ho^te, 
80 et toy apres, quant on luy oste. 

qui k ces choses aparcevroit, 

k table plus saige seroit. 

de ce seoir a table n'est digne 
84 qui d'aucun bien ne porte signe. 



imt them In your sleeve or 
boeom. 

Don't keep the wine wait- 
ing while you dispute. 

If yon sup from a glaaa, 
drink all the wine or throw 
it away. 

Wash again before eating 
fruit. 



Don't be greedy after 
cheeee, take a little. 

Of watnnte, take only two 
or three. 



Don*t q^t In the washing 



Keep in your place while 
OraoeU said, 

and remember the dead. 



Thank your host ; 

take leave of the company. 

If drink is given after 
grace, 

let the host drink first, 
then you. 

Whoso attends to these 
things will be wiMr; 

whoso will not, is not 
worthy to sit at table . 



c 



Contenante k Calrlc' 



S'A table te veulz maintenir, 
Honnestement te dois tenir, 
Et garde les enseignemens 
4 Dont cilz vers sont commancemens. 
First think of the Chacoii doit estre coutumiers 

Poor. 

De penser des povres premiers, 
Car li saoul, si ne scet mie 
8 Com le jeun a dure vie. 
Don't eat hefim A viande nuk main ne mette 

given, Jusques la beneisson soit faitte ; 

Ne t*assiez pas, je te consoille, 
12 Se bien ne sees que Ten le vueiUe. 
Ne mangue mie, je te commande, 
Andmettii Avant que on serve de viande, 

Car il sembleroit que tu feusses 
1 6 Trop glout, ou que trop fain ^ussea 

' This poem \b reprintod from M. de Monmerqa6*8 Z* Motel de 
Ciuny au moyen Age, par Mme de Saint-Surin. Paris, 1835. He 
says, p. 62, <* Cette pi^ce est tir6e d*un beau manuBcrit da X\'« 
si^cle, sur peaa v^lin, oni4 de jolies miniatures et de lettres tonr- 
neares. £Lle n'y porte aucun titre. Ce manoscrit contient le 
Roman de la Rose et le Testament de Jean de Meun, continuatear 
de Guillaume de Lords. La Contenance de Table et les qnatrains 
moraux s'y trouvent r^onis a I'onTrage qui a en le plus de Togue 
chez nos p^res. Le livre est do format in -4, presqae carr^ ; il a 
appartenu an c^l^bre Cujas, comme on le voit par ces mots Merits au 
revere de la couverture : Ce prieent livre du Soman de la Bm$ nCa 
^td danne par moneieur tnaiatre Jaequee C^jae^ tris-exeeOmt doctmr 
en droits le Jeur SamU-Anne, 1589, d Bourgee. Sign^ Taeeot** 
The French notes that follow are reprinted from M. de Monmerqu^'s 
book. 



OONTENANCB DB TABLE. 



Du pain que mis as en ta bouche 

A ton escuelle point n'atouche. 

Ongles polls, et nais les dois, 
20 Ainsi, ainsi tenir te dois 

Qu'aux compaignons ne soit grevance, 

Ne autres ne facent nnissance. 

Viande au serl de la salliere 
24 N'atouche, c'est laide maniere. 

Tes narilles fourgier ne vneilles, 

De tes dois, ne tes oreilles. 

De ton coustel tes dens ne feurges, 
28 Fors quant tu mengeue, n'espeuiges/ 

Ne craiche par dessus la table, 

Car c*est chose desconvenable. 

En ton escuelle ne doit estre 
32 Ta cueillier fors quant te dois paistre. 

S'on t*a oBti ton escuelle, 

Garde toy bien que la rappelle. 

De ' te garde et met paine, 

36 Gar c'est chose trop villaine. 

Quant tu mengue bien te guette 

Sur table ton coste ' ne mette. 

Yuiddier et eusserer memoire 
40 Aies ta bouche quant (tu) veuk boire,* 

Car descort naistre en pourroit 

Dont la compaignie s'en deuldroit. 
Crarde toy bien, en toutes guises, 
44 Yiandes au mengier ne desprises, 

1 Ce passage est tr^-obecar. On y recommande de ne point 
frapper see dents avec son couteau, et de ne s*en seirir pour les 
nettoyer que dans le moment oi\ Ton mange. Le coredent n*etait 
pas encore invent^. 

' Le mot est en blanc dans le manuscrit ; et comme c'est peat- 
Stre nn acte de discretion de TaDcien oopiste, on ne cherchera pas k 
supplier cette omission. 

^ CMte, oonde. 

* 11 faut entendre ce passage comme 8*11 y avait : IFuidiS et 
euuyi memoire aies ta bouche quant tu veuls boire. 



Don't touch yoor 
dish with bread 
that yoo'ye pat in 
yoar mouth. 



Don't pot your 
meat in the salt- 
cellar, pick your 
noee^ or ears. 



or yoor teeth with 
your knife. 
Except while eat- 
ing, do not clean 
them(?} 

Don't spit on Uie 
Uble. 



Tour spoon should 
only be in your 
plate while you 
are eating. 
Don't ask again 
for a dish 
removed. 
Don't break wind, 

or put your 
elbow on the 
Uble. 



Empty and wipe 
your mouth 
befbre drinking. 



Don't find fkutt 
with your food. 



8 



LES CONTBNANCES DB LA TABLE. 



or talk Ktndal, 

tmt be oheerftil, 
not talking Mthftt 
people hear yoo. 



Only tplt In the 
baain when yoo 
waahyoor mouth 
aadhanda. 

When the table'a 
remoTed, waah 
year handa, drink 
wine (If yon can 
get It), and thank 
Gol. 



Et quant tu te si^s au mengier 
Garde toy bien de laidengier,^ 
Ains fais grande chieie et grant joye, 
48 Ne ne parle par quoy Fen loye ;* 
Quant an mengier mains parleras, 
Plus paisible (tu t'en) yras. 

Cellui qui courtoisie a chier 
52 Ke doit pas ou bacin cracbier, 

Fors quant sa boucbe et sea mains leve, 
Ains mette bors, qu'aucun ne greve. 
La table ost6e, voz mains lavez, 
66 Puis buvez bon vin, se Tavez ; 

A Dieu soit gloire, k Dieu soit grace. 
Qui de noz cuers pecbiez defface, 
Et anime fidelium 
60 Requiescani in gavdium. 



SmAvii b Cimtenantw h la fable. 



[MS. Bill Imper. 1181, ol. 7398*, /oZ. 1 t«— 5.] 



Let him who 
would be 
conrteoDB 



keep theee mlee. 



Cot yonr nalla 
and dean the dirt 
out. 



L 

ENFANT qui veult estre courtoys, 
Et k toutes gens agreable^ 
Et principalement k table, 
4 Grarde ces rigles en firan^oys. 

IL 

Enfant soit de copper soingneux 
Ses ongles, et oster Tordure ; 

^ Zaidengier, dire des injares, tenir des maavaifl propos, 
calomnier, diffamer. 

' Ceci paratt signifier : Xe parle pas pour fattirer des louan^es, 
H. Rieu reads loye as VoyCf bear him. 



LE8 OONTENANOES DE Lk TABLE. 



Car se Tordure il y endure, 
8 Quant ilz se grate yert roingneux. 



12 



16 



20 



28 



32 



III. 



Enfant d'honneur, lave tes miuns 
A ton lever, h ton disner, 
Et puis au soupper sans finer ; 
Ce sont trois foys k tout le moins. 



IV. 



Enfant^ dy benedicite, 

Et faiz le signe de la croix, 

Ains que tu prens riens, se m'en crois, 

Qui to soit de necessity. 



V. 



Enfant, quant tu seras aux places 
Ou aucun prelat d'eglise est^ 
Laisse luy dire, s'il luy plaist, 
Tant benedicite que graces. 



VI. 



Enfant, se prelat ou seigneur 
Te dit de son auctorit^ 
Que dies benedicite, 
24 Fais le hardiement, c'est honneur. 



VII. 



Enfant, se tu es en maison 
D'autrui, et le maistre te dit 
Que te s^es, sans contredit 
Faire le peuk selon raison. 



VIII. 



Enfant, prens de regarder peine 
Sur le siege oil tu te sierras, 
Se aucune chose y verras 
Qui soit deshonneste ou vilaine. 



Waah yoar hands 
on rising, at 
dinner, and at 
■upper. 



Say, * Bless ye' 
and make the 
sign of the Cross 
before taking 
anything. 



If any prelate be 
present, let him 
say gnoe as well 
as'Blessye.' 



Bat if he or yoar 
lord tells yoa to 



do it boldly. 



When told to sit 
in another's 
house, 



do so at once, 



but take care 
there's 

nothing nasty on 
theseot. 



10 



LE8 CONTENANCBB DB LA TABLB. 



IX. 



When Mated 



for nipper OT 
dinner, be pru- 
dent and sober. 



36 



Enfant, quant tu seras assis 
Pour ton corps refectionner, 
Soit au soupper, ou au disner, 
Monstre toy prudent et rassiz. 



Takeenoivh 
breed and wine^ 

not too much. 



Don't eat too 
freely of the Ant 
dUh, 

BO as not to be 
aUe to eat others. 



Don't touch any 
dish first; 



let the hoet do 
that. 



Wlicn yoaVe put 
food in your 
mouth. 



don't let it touch 
the dish again. 



Don't offer any 
one else food Uiat 
you've bitten. 



Don't stuff in 
your month what 
you can't eat, and 



40 



44 



48 



Enfant, prens du vin et du pain, 
Ce qu'il souffist k ta nature, 
Sans trop ne peu, selon mesure ; 
Qui trop en prent est dit villain. 



XI. 



Enfant, tu ne te doibs charger 
Tant de ta premiere viande, 
Se plusieurs en as en commando, 
Que d'autres ne puisses menger. 



XII. 



Enfant, se tu es bien s^avant, 
Ne mes pas ta main le premier 
Au plat, mais laisse j toucher 
Le maistre de Fhostel avant 



XIII. 

Enfant, gardez que le morseau 

Que tu auras mis en ta bouche 

Par une fois, jamais n'atouche, 

52 Ke soit remise en ton vaisseau. 

XIV. 

Enfant, ayes en toy remors 
De t'en garder, se y as failly, 
Et ne presentes k nuUuy 
56 Le morseau que tu auras mors. 

XV. 

Enfant, garde toy de maschier 
En ta bouche pain ou viande. 



LES OONTENANGES DE LA TABLE. 



11 



Oultre que ton cuer ne demande, 
60 £t puis apres la lecrascher. 



64 



G8 



72 



76 



80 



XVL 



84 



Enfant, tu doibs prendre du sel 
Dessus ton taillour, et saloir 
Ta viande pour mieulx valoir, 
Ou dedans ung autre vaisseL 

XVII. , 

Enfant, garde qu^on la saliere 
Tu ne mettes point tes morseaulx 
Pour les saler, ou tu deffaulx, 
Car c'est deshonneste maniere. 

XVIIL 

Enfant, se tu bois de fort vin, 
Metts y eaue attrempeement, 
Et n'en boy que souflSsamment, 
Ou il te troublera Tengin. 

XIX. 

Enfant, se tu es ung y vrongne 
Par trop boire, 11 est deshonneste, 
Et en auras mal en la teste, 
Et puis apres honte et vergongne. 

XX. 

Enfant, garde que sur ton boire 
Ne habonde trop en parolles, 
Car la maniere en est moult foUe ; 
Enfant de bien ne le doit faire. 

XXI. 

Enfant, k table je t'ordonne 
Sur tout que point tu ne sommeilles, 
Et auBsi que tu ne conseilles ^ 
En I'oreille d'autre personne. 



then hftve to tplt 
it out again. 



Take aalt on 
your trenclier. 



Don't dip your 
food in the aalt- 
oeUar. 



Mix water with 
strong wine, 

or it will muddle 
your wlta. 



To ftet drunk b 
disgraceful, 

and it makes 
your bead ache. 



Don't talk too 
much over your 
wine. 



Don't go to deep 
at table 



or whieper in any 
one's ear. 



CkmteiUery parler bas. 



12 



LBS OONTENANOES D£ LA TAfiLB. 



Don't telk with 
joor mooth ftiU, 



orgvipjaax 
drink down. 



Wbaterer ban- 
quet you go to^ 

don't gabbl* too 
much. 



Be peaceable and 
ooarteoaa, 



not noisy. 



Ifyoahavea 
doth, never drink 
out of a cap with 
a dirty mouth. 



XXIL 

Enfant, jamais la bouche pleine, 
Tu ne dois a autruy parler, 
Ne boire aussy pour avaler, 
88 Car c*est chose par trop vileine. 

XXIII. 

Enfant, garde, se tu es saige, 
En quelque bancquet que tu voyses * 
Soit de seigneurs, ou de bourgeoyses, 
92 De trop habonder en langaige. 

XXIV. 

Enfant, soyes tousjours paisible, 
Doulx, courtois, bening, amiable, 
Entre ceulx qui sierront k table, 
96 Et te gardes d'estre noysibles.' 

XXV. 

Enfant, ce te est chose honteuse, 
Se tu as serviette ou drap, 
De boire en aucun hanap, 
100 Ayant la bouche orde et baveuse.* 



* Que tu voyses, que tu allies. * Noyaihle, bruyant. 

' Cette pi^ce'est du milieu du xye si^cle. On se servait alors de 
Berviettes, tandis que plus anciennement, auz xiii et xit«, on 
s'essuyait la bouche arec la nappe. £n yoici un exemple qu'il ne 
sera pas inutile de rapprocher de ces quatrains. II est tir6 da 
Chastiement des Barnes^ poeme dans lequel Bobert de Blois enseigne 
auz dames comment elles doivent se conduire dans le monde. 

Toutes les foiz que tous be?ez, 

Yostre bouche bien easuiez, 

Que li Tins encressiez ne soit ; 

Qu'il desplest moult k cui le bolt. 

Gardez que yoz iez n'essuez, 

A cele foiz que vous beyez 

A la nape, ne yostre nez, 

Qar blasm6e moult en serez. 

{Fabliaux de Barbazan, 4dit. M6on. T. 2, p. 200.) 

Le Grand d' Aussy, dans la Vie privie des Frangois, Paris, 

1782. T. 3, p. 139, assure que T usage de s'essuyer la bouche k la 

nappe, et de ne pas avoir de seryiettes, s'^tait encore conserr^ en 

Angleterre. 



LES GONTENANCES DB LA TABLE. 



13 



xxvr. 

Enfant, se tu faiz en ton verre 
Souppes de vin aucunement, 
Boy tout le vin entierement, 
104 Ou autrement le gecte k terre. 

XXVII. 

Enfant, garde de presenter 
A ton hoste pain ne viande. 
Prendre en pent sans qn'on luy comniande ; 
108 Autre ne Ten pent exempter.* 

XXVIII. 

Enfant, soies plain et jojeux 
En tout ce que tu fais ou dis, 
Ne te habandonne k nulz vains dis, 
112 Tu n'en pourras valoir que mieulx. 

XXIX. 

Enfant, se aucun serviteur oste 
Aucun plat qui soit devant toy» 
Wen fais semblant, tais t'en tout quoy^ 
116 II souffist puisqu'i' plaist k Thoste. 

XXX. 

Enfant^ garde toy de reinplir 
Ton ventre si habundamment, 
Que tu ne puisses saigement 
120 Tes bonnes oeuvres acomplir. 

XXXL 

Enfant, se tu veulx en ta pence 
Trop excessivement bouter, 
Tu seras constraint k rupter 
124 Et perdre toute contenance. 

' Bobert de Blois fait aox dames la mSme recommandatioii: 
En aatrui meson ne soiez 
Trop larges, se Tons i mangiez : 
N'est cortoisie, ne proece, 
D'autrui chose faire lar^ece. 

{Ibid., p. 201.) 



If you take a lip 
outofaglasa* 

drink aU the 
wine, or tbnnr it 
away. 



Don't offer bread 
or meat to your 
hoet. 



Be simpte and 
cheerftilinaU 
youdo^ 

not giving yonr- 
■elf up to vaaitlee. 



If a servant takee 
a diah away from 
you, 

take no notloe. 
pi pour 0] 



Don't fill your 
belly 80 fUitliat 



you can't work. 



If you stuff too 
much, you'll have 
to break wind and 
be shamed. 



u 



LES CONTENANCES DB LA TAfiLE. 



Listen, and ooly 
speak at lit Umaa. 



Don't lean oo 
your elbow. 



IfyooTBoaeb 
■notty, don't wipe 
it with the hand 
in which you hold 
your food. 



Don't snuir up 
your snivel or 
make a loud 
whistle. 



Keep these tilings 
in mind. 



Don't offer the 
■cup you leave to 
any one else. 



Don't rub your 
hands together, or 
your arms ou tb» 
cloths. 



After partaking 
of your host's 
food, thank him. 



xxzn. 

Enfant, se tu es saige, escoute 
De la table lea assistans, 
Sans parler fors qu'i heure et temjis, 
128 £t ne te tiena pas sur le coubte. 

XXXIIL 

Enfant, se ton nez est morveux, 
Ne le torche de la main nue, 
De quoy ta viande eat tenue. 
132 Le fait est vilain et honteux.* 

XXXIV. 

Enfant, en quelque compaignye 
Que soyes, ne veulles nifler 
Ton nez, ne faire hault siffler ; 
136 C'est deshonneur et mocquerie. 

XXXV. 

Enfant, metz ces dis en entente 
Et les retiens en ton conraige. 
Le residu de ton potaige 
HO Jamais a autruy ne presents 

XXXVL 

Enfant, garde toy de frotter 
Enssamble tes mains, ne tes bras 
Ne a la nappe, ne aux draps ; 
144 A table on ne se doit grater. 

XXXVII. 

Enfant, aprea que tu as prins 
Des biens de ton hoste ou hostease, 
Eemercie lez de leur largesse ; 
148 Tu n*en pourras estre reprins. 

^ Le linge 6tait alon si rare, que Ton ne oonnaissait paa les 
mouehoirs; la politesse consistait k se moucher avec les doigts de la 
main ganche, parce qu'on mangeait ayec ceux de la main droite. 



15 



^rie gieu prar Ics fegasse^: 



§aM£ 



^ a Pfsnus (=8UR lb heme sujet). 



[MS. Bibl. Imp. 1181, {mr.. 7398,) /c;?. 5.] 



8 



ENFANT, oultre quoy que tu faces 
Apres ton mengier et ton boiie, 
Souviengne toi de dire graces ; 
Tu es obleig^ de ce faire, 
Et remercie Dieu le pere, 
Qui des biens t'a donne assez, 
Et pour toutes oeuvres parfaire, 
Prie Dieu pour les tre8X)assez. 



After eating and 
drinking eay 



tliankGk>d, 



and pny for the 



L'enfant saige tenu sera. 
En toute bonne compaignye. 
Qui bien ses reigles gardera 

12 Sans avoir honte ou villonnye. 
Qui les tiendra^ je yous affye, 
Dedens son cuer bien enchassez, 
Honneur aura, mais qu'il n'oublie 

16 Prier Dieu pour les trespassez. 



He who obeenres 
theie rules will 
be held wise. 



and will have 
honour; tmtlet 
him praj God 
for the dead. 



Enfant, tu to doibs recoler 
Apres qu*auras beu et mengie. 



ReooUeet after 
your meals 



16 



AUTRB8 00NTBNANCE8 DE TABLE. 



the bread- 
winners, and re- 
member to 



pny God for the 



£t ains que t'en veulles aler, 
20 Pour ceulx qui ont les biens gaingn^ ; 

Et te souviengne en piti6 

Que de ce monde sont pa8sez> 

Ainsi que tu es obleigez 
24 Prier Dieu pour les trespassez. 



Hjr child, joa. are 

boand by the 

goods laid up tot 

you 

to pray Ood for 

the dead. 



28 



Prince enfant, tu es tenu 
Des biens qui te sont amassez, 
Dont ton estat est soustenu, 
Prier Dieu pour les trespassez. 



%uixts ^fmitmum k Cable. 



[MS. BiU, Imp. 1181, {anc. 7398,) /oZ. 5. vo. See 
amther veraim, p. 3 of the French, Part //.] 



Let the oourteoua 
obierve these 
rolea. 



SE tu veulz estre bien courtois, 
Gardes ces reigles en franfois. 



Pare your nails 
or you'll get the 
scab. 



Asses souvent tes ongles roingne ; 
4 Longs ongles font venir la roingne. 



lUce the dirt out 
of them too. 



De tes ongles oste Tordure ; 
Les avoir ors est grant laidure. 



Wash your hands 
before dinner and 
supper. 



Lave tes mains devant disner, 
8 Et aussy quant vouldras soupper. 



Say grace before 
meals. 



Ain9oi8 fais henedicite 
Que prennes ta necessite. 



AUTRES CONTENANCBS DE TABLE. 



17 



Seoir te peulz sans contredit 
12 Au lieu ou Toste se te dit 



Sit whfore your 
host tella yoa to. 



De pain, de vin, tu dois pen prendre 
S'autre viande doibs actendre. 



Take little bread 
and wine if other 
food is coming. 



Le morsel mis hors de ta bouche 
16 A ton yaissel plus ne le touche. 



Don't toach your 
diah with food 
aplt out. 



Ton morsel ne touche h saliere, 
Car ce n'est pas belle maniere. 



Don't put food in 
the salt-oellar. 



Boy sobrement a toute feste, 
20 A ce que n'affolles ta teste. 



Drink soberly, so 
as not to befool 
your head. 



E^ ton vin et boire tenir 

Ne veulles long plait maintenir. 

Se tu fais souppes en ton Yerre> 
24 Boy le vin ou le gette k terre. 

Ne boy pas la bouche baveuse, 
La coustume en est honteuse. 



Between taking 
wine and drink« 
ing it, don't hold 
akmgdisousaion. 

If yon sip from a 
glass, drink all 
the wine, or throw 
it away. 

Don't drink with 
a dirty mouth. 



Se tu te veulx fietire valoir, 
28 Sobre parler tu dois avoir. 



Speak soberly if 
you want esteem. 



II est conseiU^ en la Bible 
Entre les gens estre paisiblo. 



Be peaceable with 
all men. , 



Ne paries point la bouche pleine, 
32 Car c'est laide chose et vileine. 



Don't talk with 
your mouth ftilL 



Apres monstre toy liez tousdiz ; 
Ne habunde trop en vains dits. 



Be merry. 
Spare empty 
sayings. 



S'on oste le plat devant toy, 
36 N'en faiz compte, et t'en tais coy. 

B 



Ifyourdishis 
taken aw«y, don't 
noUoe It. 



18 



AUTRES C0NTENANCE8 DE TABLE. 



Don't twist your 
nspkln'into a 
rope. 



De ta touaille' ne faiz corde, 
Honnestet^ ne s'y accorde. 



Don't foroe the 
host to part with 
his wine. 



En plain disner^ ou en la fin, 
40 l^efforce Toste de son vin ; 



Don't stuff your 
belly and spoil 
your iu)e. 



£t ne lempliz pas si ta pance 
Qu^en toy n'ait belle contenance. 



Ne faiz pas ton morsel conduire 



D(Hi't pot your 
knife in yoor 

mouth, 44 A ton coustel qui te peult nuyre. 



or break wind 
when many 
people are near. 



S'entonr toy a de gens grans roucte,* 
(xarde que ton ventre ne roupte. 



Listen. 
Don't lean oa 
your elbow. 



Eegarde k la table et escoute, 
48 Et ne te tiens pas sur ton coubte.' 



Don't touch your 
nose with the 
band that holds 
your meat. 



Don't wipe your 
teeth with the ^ 
cloth. " 



Ne touche ton nez k main nue 
Dont ta viande est tenue. 

Ne torche de nappe tes dens, 
52 Et si ne la m^ point dedens. 



Oflfer no one the 
learings of your 
soup. 



Ne ofire k nul, se tu es saige, 
Le demourant de ton potaige. 



Keep the table- 
cloth clean, and 
put your leavings 
in a cup. 

Keep yourself 
neat. 



Don't blow your 
nose loud at tables 



Tiens devant toy le tablier net ; 
66 En ung vaissel ton relief met. 

Tiens toy nectement, et regarde 
Comment a toy chacun prent garde. 

Ne mouche bault ton nez k table, 
60 Car c'est ung fait peu aggreable. 

^ Ibuailie, senrieite. 

3 Soucte ou route, troupe, foule. G'est le rout des Anglais. 
, > MS. ooulte. 



AUTRES COMTENANCES DE TABLE. 



19 



Ne frotte tes mains ne tes bras 
L'un k rantre, ne i tes draps. 



or rabyoar hands 
and arms together 
on the dotb. 



Ooltie la table ne crache point ; 
64 Je te diz que c'est ung kit point 



Don't spit over 
the table, 



Ne furge tes dens de la pointe 
De ton coustel ; je le t'apointe. 



or pick your teeth 
with your knife. 



Se on met lettres en ta main, 
68 Mes les tantost dedens ton sein. 



Put lettei^ given 

yoo.inyour 

bosom. 



Se tu es servy de froumage, 

Si en prens pou, non k oultraige. 



Of cheese take 
but little. 



Gj^rde toi bien de conseiller 
72 A table, ne de sommeiller ; 



Dou't whisper or 
sleep at table. 



Et se tu es servy de nois, 

Wen mengeue que deux ou troys. 



Of walnuts, eat 
only two or three. 



S'on sert de fruit devant lever, 
76 N'en mengeue point sans le laver. 



Wash before eat- 
ing fhiU. 



Quant ta bouche tu laveras, 
Ou bacin point ne cracheras. 



Don't spit in the 
basin when yoa 
wash your mouth. 



Quant tu rendras graces k Dieu, 
80 Sy te tiens en ton propre lieu. 



When yon ssy 
grace, iti^ in your 
place. 



N'oublie pas les trespassez, 
Qui de ce monde sont passez. 



Don*t fbrget the 
dead. 



A ton ho^ dois mercy rendre ; 
84 De t'en aler dois congiS prendre. 



Thank your host 
and take leave of 
him. 



Se on te fait boire apres graces, 

Soit en hanap, ou verre, ou tasses, 

%2 



If drink is offered 
you, 



20 



REOIMK FOUR TOUS SERVITEUBS. 



let jaar bort 
drink flnt, 
and then do 70a, 
Mjlng, 'Qodbe 
with 70Q, I am 
goingt' 



Laisse premier boire ton lioste, 
88 £t boy apres quant on lui oste. 
Apres peulx dire & haulte voix : 
A Dien vons commans, je m'en vois. 



HewhotUnksof 

UiMeaayingi 

wlllbetlMwiMr. 



Qui k ces ditz bien pensera^ 
92 A table plus saige en sera. 
De s6oir k table n'est digne 
Qui d'aucun bien ne porte signe. 



Ilegime i^m €m Striiiteurs. 



[M8. Bin. Imp. 1181, (ane. 7938,) /o?. 7 «•.] 



Theifood servant 
■hoold fear and . 
lore his master. 



eat without sit- 
ting at table* 



keep good 
oompany, 

never peijure 
himself^ 

displease no one, 
or carry about 
gossip. 



Keep your teeth 
and body dean^ 



and observe 
coortesy. 



SE tu veuk bon serviteur estre, 

Craindre dois et aymer ton maistre ; 

Soyes humble, net et traictable. 
4 * Mengier dois sans s^oir k table. 

Fuy vin et toute gloutonnie. 

Suys tousjours bonne compaignye. 

Dy tes paroUes sans jurer, 
8 Et te garde de parjurer. 

Soies paisible, sans noyse faire. 

Ne veulle k nul desplaisir faire. 

Ne soies porteur de nouvelles, 
12 Soient laides, ou soient belles. 

Tiens net ta bouche, tes mains et dens, 

Et ton corps dehors et dedenz. 

Selon ton estat te maintien ; 
16 A courtoysie la main tien. 

Toutes gens d'honneur, gaingne ou perte, 



REGIME FOUR TOUS SERVITEURS. 



21 



Salue k teste descouverte. 
Fuy detractions et mesdiz, 

20 Bourdeaux, tavemes, jeux de diz. 
A nul ne fais et ne pouichasse^ .... 
Soit seculier, ou clerc, ou prestre, 
n te fault pour le bien servir, 

24 Se son amour veulz desservir, 
Laissier toute ta voulent 6 
Pour ton maistre servir k grey ; 
Et sy dois tousjours labourer 

28 A le servir et honnorer, 

En tout lieu et en toute place, 
Lealment, sans point de faUace. 
Ke mesdis de nulle personne, 

32 Quelque elle soit, ou male, ou bonne, 
Et se aucun vas advisant 
-Qui soit de autrui mesdisant, 
A Tescouter j jk ne te plaise, 

36 Mais le blasme, et dy qu'il te ^ taise. 
Tousjours te doibs matin lever 
Soit en est^, ou en yver, 
Car trop dormir est grant paresse, 

40 Et de pou d'honneur en jeunesse. 
Et aussy te fais k S9avoir 
Que de trois choses dois avoir 
Proprement la condicion, 

44 Dont la significacion 

Maintenant je te veul retraire. 

Dos d'asne si est la premiere, 

Les autres sont, que bien le saiche, 

48 Grouing de pore, oreiUes de vache. 
Par dos d'asne, qui les fais porte, 
Et qui de batre on ne deporte, 
Tu dois entendre, sans doubter. 



Avoid Blander, 
taverns, and 
gambling. 



Beyoar maatw 
lay or clerk. 



to get his love 

you must give ap 
yoar own will. 



and honoar him 
loyally every- 
where. 



Speak ill of no 
one. 



If you hear any 
man doing so, 
tell him to hold 
his tongue, 
[ip/orse] 

Rise early, 
summer and 
winter: too 



much sleep is a 
disgrace to youth. 

Of three things 
yon should have 
the properties. 



I. An Ass's Bark. 

II. A Pig's 
Snout. 

III. A Cow's 
Ear's. 

I. By Uie Ass's 
Back, 

understand that 



^ n manque ici deux yen dans le manuscrit ; le sens est incom- 



plet. 



90 



REGIME FOUR TOUS BEBVITEUBS. 



yoamiut basr 
the burden of all 



that your maeter 
charges you with. 



n. By the Pig's 
Bnovt^ 

undentand that 

yoa're not to be 
dainty aboat 
your food, cold or 
hot, bat most eat 
everything. 



Idle aervanti are 

dainty, 

and it's a bad 

fiuilt. 



III. By the Cow's 
Ears, 

understand that 
yoa're not to 
take oflSenoe at 
anything your 
master says. 
Though he gets in 
a rai^e and abuses 
you. 



you are to hold 
your tongue, 
listen, and say 
nothing. 



Ifyou serve at 
table. 



first put on 



the doth, then 
the salt, knives, 
bread, wine, meat, 
and whatever Is 
asked for. 
Take nothing off 
without orders. 



52 Que soingneusement dois porter 
La cure, le faiz et la charge 
De ce que ton maistre t'encharge 
Diligemment et k grant haste. 

56 Par grouing de pore, qui partout taste, 
£t partout se boute et se fiert, 
Dois entendre qu'4 toy n'affiert 
Danger* de vin ne de viande, 

60 Chaulde, froide, petite ou grande, 
Tout dois mengier par appetit, 
Quoy que ce soit, grant ou petit, 
Car servant lasche et paresseux 

64 Et de viande dangereux,' 
C^est une tres mauvaise tache. 
Apres, par oreilles de vache 
Grandes et larges, dois entendre 

68 Que nul desphdsir ne dois prendre 
En riens * que ton maistre te dye ; 
Et s*il advient qu'il te maldie, 
Ou qu'il se courrouce et te tance, 

72 Tu ne le dois prendre en offence, 
Mais te dois taire k grant merveilles, 
Et avoir les grandes oreilles 
A escouter sans riens desdire, 

76 Tant que ton maistre vouldra dire. 
Se ton maistre tu sers k table, 
Ce te sera chose honnorablo 
De servir gracieusemont : 

80 Tu dois mettre premierement 
En tous lieux et en tout hostel 
La nappe, et apres le sel ; 
Cousteaulx, pain, vin, et pms viande, 

84 Puis apporter ce qu'on demande. 
Kiens n'osteras sans commander. 



Danger, difficult^. 



3 Miensj choso, da latin res. 



> LangereuXt difficile. 



REGIME POUR T0U8 8ERVITEURS. 



23 



Aussy je te veul adviser, 
Se tu sera maifltre qui ayt femine, 
88 Bouigeoysey damoiselle, ou dame. 
Son honneur dois par tout garder, 
Et de ton maistre, sans tarder, 
Ya promptement et comme saige, 
92 S'il t'envoye en aucun messaige, 
T>j ton cas sans riens adjouster ; 
Tu n'y dois mettre, ny oster, 
£t se tu sers ou clerc ou presbtre, 
96 Gardes ne soyes vallet maistre. 
S'il est que soyes secretaire 
Tu dois tousjours les secrez taire, 
Ne januds ne dois reveler 

100 Les choses qui sont h celer. 
Se tu sers juges, ou advocas, 
Ne rapporte nuls nouveaulx cas ; 
Ne procure k nulluy donunaige, 

104 Tousjours te maintiens comme saige. 
Sans pourchasser, ne faire injure. 
£t s'il te advient par adventure 
A servir due, ou prince, ou conte, 

108 Marquis, ou baron, ou visconte, 
Ou autre terrien seigneur, 
Ne soyes de taille inveuteur, 
D'impostz, de subsides, et les biens 

112 Du peuple ne leur oste en riens. 
Sans cause juste et necessaire : 
Ne ja pour flater, ne pour plaire, 
Ne donne k ton maistre couraige 

116 De faire honte ne dommaige 
A nul, par fait ne par parolle ; 
Mais se tu Ten v^ois en colle,* 
A ton povoir Ten dois garder, 

120 Et de mal faire retarder. 

> (hlie, d&ir, disposition. 



IfyoormMtor 
hMft wife, 



ftlwaya guard her 
hoDoar. 



Go quickly when 
joa are sent on a 
meeesKe, and utj 
yoor My, without 
adding; to or tak- 
ing firom it. 

If yon serve a 
clergyman, don't 
be his master. 

Ifyon'reaseere- 
tary» keep secrets 

and never revesi 
thinss that ought 
to be hid. 

If yon serve a 
Judge, don't 
Invent any new 
crimes 0> or harm 
anyone. 



If yon serve a 
duke, ]»ince, or 



other nobleman, 

dont originate 
tazee, or deprive 
people of their 
goods without 
Justcaose, 



or encourage yonr 
master to wrong 
any man. 



but if yon see him 
inclined to do so, 
stop him all you 
can. 



24 



RBQIMB POUR TOUS SERVITEURS. 



If you serve A 
fentlenun in war 



time, don't 
plunder people, 

or take the gooda 

of thoM whom 

70U ouKht to 

defeud. 

I>on't annof any 

lajrmen. 



Fear God's 
reuffpance. and 
tnut in llim. 

Pillage cannot be 
rightly taken. 



Violate no 
woman, nor 
defame any : 



yon will soon die. 
and be stinking 
food for worms ; 



your body will 
rot. 



and wormB eat 
your flesh, and 
your soul will go 
to hell, never to 
return. 

Gonsider then : 

Death fhmtB you; 
fear God. 



and lore Him 
with all your 
heart. 

[• ?keur, hour, or 
ftuT^ for 8p. 
/Wro, code of 
laws, L. forv,m.'\ 

Always serve 
your master so as 

to deserve his 
favour and 
honour; so that 
you may be 
master youraelf 



Se tu seis gentil-homme en guerre, 
Soit tant par mer comme par terra, 
]N'e ya desrobant nulle gent, 

124 Ne leur oste or ny argent 

Ne va pas de ceulx les biens prendre 
Que tu dois garder et de£fendre, 
Ke a nuUes gens seculiers 

128 Ne faiz ennuys, ne destourbiers ; 

Grains tousjours de Dieu la yengence 

Et mes en lui ta confidence ; 

De nul pillier ne peut bien prendre, 

132 Car ji la fin le fault tout rendre. 
^e prens par force nulle femme, 
Ne leur faiz honte ne diffame, 
£t quant telz fais faire youldras, 

136 Souyiengne toy que brief morras; 
Orde et puante yiande aux vers, 
Lors seront bien changiez ces vers, 
Car ton corps qui tant est nourry, 

140 En terre ou hors sera pourry. 
Bien sera chang^ ta besoingne, 
Car vers mengeront ta charoingne, 
Et ton ame en torment yra, 

144 Duquel jamais ne partira. 

Advise toi done, c'est le mieulx ; 
Tu voys ta mort devant tes yeulx, 
Crains Dieu, car il rend gaingne ou perte 

148 A chascun selon sa desserte. 

Aymes et crains Dieu en ton cuer, 
Et ji ne veuilles ik nul feur' 
Faire faulx traict ne trabison ; 

152 Et tousjours, en quelque maison, 
Ou quelque maistre que tu serves, 
Faiz, se tu peulz, que tu desserves 
La grace et Famour de 'ton maistre, 

156 Affin que puisses maistre estre 



REQIHE FOUR TOUS SERVITEUB8. 



25 



Quant il sera temps et mestier. 
Mes peine k s^avoir bon mestier, 
Car pour ta vie praticquer, 

160 Tout ton cuer y dois applicquer. 
En ce faisant, tu pourras estre, 
Et devenir de vallet maistre, 
Et te pourras faire servir, 

164 Et pris et honneur desservir. 
Et acquerir finablement 
De ton ame le sauvement. 



some day. 

But to be ft good 

hand. 

you must put all 

your heart into 

your work. 

Then you may 
become a master, 



hare semmts 
younelf. 



and gain the sal- 
vation of your 
soul. 



26 



ft it gtras ab Utensattt. 



[Harl. MS/ 3362, fol. 6. The tide aboye is in a later hand. 
The metrical points below are those of the MS. No stops are 
inserted.] 



Wash before 
eatinf. 



At toble. think 
first of the Poor. 



Don't eat tm the 

dlBhesaretet 

down. 



Don*t touch the 
■alt with Tonr 
food. 



Don't pick yonr 
teeth with your 
knife, 

or spit on the 
table. 



or belch. 



Doctus dicetur. hec qui documenta sequetur. 

Hoc documeiita sibL qui vult vrbanus haberi. 

Que scribuntuT ibi. sciat obseruanda necesse. 
4 Kon lotis escam. manibt^ non sumpseris Ynquam, 

Kemo cibum capiat donee benediccio fiat 

Nee capiat sedem. nm quam vult qui regit eden. 

Dum sedes in mensa. pnmo de paupere pens& 
8 Kam dapibt^ plenus. nescis quid sentit egenus. 

Donee sint posita. tibi fercula mandere vita. 

Immo panem seinde. quern mandat qui yelit inde. 

DentibzM etacta.* non sit buccella redacta. 
12 In diseum digiti. tibi sunt' vnguesqt^ politL 

Sal non tangatur. esea quo vase ponatur. 

Dum cihus extat in ore tuo potare caueto. 

!N'on membruT/i scalpe. diseumbens de vice talpo. 
16 Kon mundent dentes. ex eultello comedente& 

A disco tollas. coclear cum sumpseris escas. 

Kon vltra mensam. sputes nee desuper ynquam. 

In mensa eubituTTK ponere sit yetituTTL 
20 Si potes hoc reputo.' mensa ructare caueto. 



^/or intacta. 



» for 9int. 



' tfor reputa eontider. 



27 



\tk ia hm jirarself at CaWe. 



[Englished literally by Professor Seeley, M. A., of Uniyersity College, London ; 
Fellow of Christ's College, Cambridge.] 



He shall be called instructed wlio shall follow these teachings. 
These teachings which are written here, let him who wishes 

to be held polite 
know must needs be observed, 
4 Never take up food with hands not washed 
Let no on& take food until the blessing be given, 
"Not take a seat, except that which the master of the house 

chooses. 
While you are sitting at the table, think first of the poor 

man, 
8 For when you are full of meat, you know not what the needy 

man feels. 
Avoid eating of the dishes until they are put before you. 
Cut the bread which he bids you cut who wants some of it. 
Lot not the piece of food, when it has been touched by the 

teeth, be put back 
12 Upon the dish. Let your fingers and nails be trimmed. 

Let not the salt be touched by meat in the vessel in which 

it is set on table. 
While food still continues in your mouth, beware of drinking. 
Don't scratch your limb, after the fashion of a mole, as you 

sit down. 
16 Let not persons eating, clean their teeth with their knife. 
Remove the spoon from the dish when you have taken up the 

food. 
Don't spit over the table, nor down upon it ever. 
Be it forbidden to put the elbow on the table. 
20 K you can, I wam(?) you of this, don't belch at table. 



28 



YT TE 0ERA8 AD MENSAM. 



Don't ar 
oifeiislvo thinfi, 



or bring a eat to 
table. 



NeTergrin. 



Keep the table 
clean. 



Don't drink 
before the boet. 



Don't ihow year 
food vhile oatlnit 



Don't slander 
absent men. 



In mensa care, quam sint rea ne memorare. 

!N'ec dicas yerbnm^ cuiqz^m quod ei sit acerbu/n^ 

Mensa sis hillans. cmquam nee in aure loquaris. 
24 Mureligus ^ consors. in mensa sit tibi mmquam. 

Si sapis extra yas. expue qnando lauas. 

Hoc penitus timeas. ne sociis noceas. 

Numquam subrideas. sed stabilis sedeas. 
28 Cum tnhiis digitis. escam tangendo politis. 

Fare morosa.* semper mensaqua iocosa. 

Mensa tibi pura. vir sit nee sorgere cora. 

Donee dicatur. gracias ({uoque mensa trabati^r. 
32 Cultellum terge. mappa quoque coclear terge. 

Quando bibit dominus. non bibe discipule. 

Yas in scissoriis.^ non ponas ne reprobens. 

In potum sufflare. txmm nolito cihumque. 
36 Ytraqt/6 parte, non masticabis aparte. 

Pr[i]uetar mensa. qz^i spreuerit hee docamenta. 

* Si quis amat dictis. absentum rodere vitam. 

.i. indignam 
Hanc mensam miseram. nouerit esse sibl 



^ Catte, beste. Oattutf murelifftu, Catholicon in Prompt. Parv. 

3 Mbr6su9, waywarde ; frowarde ; ouerthwarte. Cooper. 

' Yas . . 17 eultrum (a knife) ; Forcellini. Seisaorium, Orbica- 
lu8^ menBorius, in quo conviysQ dapes aibi appositas yel prsesamtas 
Bcindunt, nostris olim I^enchair. Ducange. 

^ ' Additio forsan aut altera ad paeros admonitio : * note in a 
later hand. 

^ A Trencher, quadra, A rounde Trencher, orbit, Withals. 



HOW TO BKAR YOURSELF AT TABLE. 29 

At table do not mention how dear things are. 

Don't say a word to any one which may be unpleasant to him. 

At table be cheerful, and don't speak to any one in his ear. 

24 Let not a cat ever be a companion to you at the table. 

If you are wise, spit beyond the vessel when you wash. 

Carefully beware of this, not to offend your fellow-guests. 

Never grin, but sit steady, 

28 With three clean fingers touching the food. 

Speak morose [grave] things always, and jocose things at 

table. 
See, O man, that the table be clean, and remember not to 

rise 
Until grace be said and the table be removed. 
32 "Wipe your knife, and wipe your spoon with your napkin. 
When the master drinks, drink not, learner. 
Put not your knife on (your) trenchers lest you be reproved. 
Don't blurt out(]) into your diink &, food. 
36 Do not chew visibly on either side [of the jaw]. 

He who despises these teachings, let him be kept away from 

the table. 
K a man loves to iigure the character of absent men with 

words, 
Let him know that this table is shameful for him. 



30 



5te ^iwr aKr Pensam. 



[Harl MS. 3362, /oZ. 10, or 6 6. The mdricdl points 
are those of the MS, No stops are inserted.'] 



When speaking, 
keep jam hande 
and eyes quiet 



Don't pick your 
note. 



or break into 
guflhwB. 

Wash jour hands 
before eating. 



Keep your nalla 
clean. 

Don't chatter too 
much. 



Stans puer ad mensanL * domiui bona dogmata 
discas. 

Dum loqueris digitL que manus in pace pedea 
sint. 

Sis vultu simplex, yisum nee vbiqua reuoluas. 
4 Nee paries specidum. baculus nee sit tibi postis. 

Nee nares fodias. camem propWam neque scalpes. 

Kec eaput inclines, facies sit in ore loquentis. 

In pace p<?rgaB. per yicos atqt^ plateas. 
8 Kec leuitate cito. color in facie varietur. 

Kec coram domtno. debes monstrare cachinnas. 

Hec documenta tene. si vis vrbanns haberL 

Illotis manibu^. escas ne sumpseris ynquanu 
1 2 Atque loco sedeas. tiH quern signauerit hospes. 

Summumspeme locum, tibi sumeresis nisi iussus. 

Fercula donee sint. sita pani parce meroqtee. 

"Ne fame captus. dicaris sine gulosus. 
16 Munde sint vngues. noceant ne forte sodalL 

Morcellum totum. comedas vel detur egenis. 

Face fruens midtis. caueas garrire loquelis. 

* The poem must have been written before the distinction in 
the King's College (Cambridge) MS. of the Promptorium was ac- 
cepted. ^^MiMaa est pauperum, et toMa diyitum." P.P. see 
• Table.' 



31 



f |t ^^e stimbhig at Cable. 



{EnglMed literally by Professor Sedey.) 



Bojy standing at thy master^s table, learn good maximB. 
While thou speakest, let fingers, hands, & feet be at peace. 
Be simple in look, & do not turn the eye everywhere. 
4 Let not the wall be thy looking-glass, nor the post thy staff; 
Kor pick thy nose, nor scratch thine own flesh, 
Kor lean thy head : let there be in thy face the expression of 

one speaking. 
Walk demurely through the streets & roads, 
8 And let not the colour in thy face change quickly through 
levity ; 
Nor must thou, in presence of thy lord, exhibit horse-laughs. 
These teachings hold fast, if thou wilt be held polite. 
With unwashed hands take not up ever thy food, 
12 And sit in the place which the host shall have marked out 
for thee. 
Befuse the highest place unless thou be ordered to take it 
Until the dishes be placed, spare the bread & wine 
Lest thou be said to be oppressed with hunger, or gluttonous. 
16 Be thy nails clean, lest perchance they offend thy companion. 
Eat up thy whole share, or let it be given to the poor. 
Enjoying peace, beware of chattering with much talk. 



32 



BTANB FUEB AD HBKBAM. 



Don'Upoak wtth 
your moath tuh. 



or drink wtth ft 
dirty mouth. 

Don't Rplt on the 
Uble. 



[FoLrorlL] 

or pick your teeth 
with your knifei 



Don't dirty the 
cloth with your 
knife. 



Bpitpeitthebeain 
yon WMhin. 



Gire pert of your 
food to the poor. 



After meals, 
thenk Christ 



Sp^me cacliinnari. poteris sic viMcarL 
20 Maxillarnqt^ bolo. caueas ezpandere magna 

Nee gemina parte, vescare cibis simul oiis.^ 

'Numquam ridebis. n^ faberis ore lepleto. 

Kec disco sonitunk nimium soibendo patrabis. 
24 In disco maaquarrL coclear stet n^ super oiam. 

Oieque pollute, non potabis nisi terso. 

Discum de mensa. Bublatum non leuocabis. 

"Nee yltra mensam spueris n^ desuper Tnquafiu 
28 Nee camem proprtauL verres digito neque scalpes. 

Semper munda manus. deuitet teigere nasuTit. 

Mensa cultello. dentes mundare caueto. 

Ore tenens escam. potum superaddere nolL 
32 Quod noceat sociis. in mensa tangere mimquam, 

Murelegum nximquanL caueas palpaie canemqfie. 

Mappam cultello. mensa maculare caueto. 

Potibi&9 ac escis. semper sufflare cauebis. 
36 Sal non tangatz^r. esca quo vase ponatur. 

Si sapis extra vas. expue quan^ lauas. 

Sit timor in dapibu& benediccio leccio tempu9. 

Sermo breuis yuiiua hiUans. -pars detur egems. 
40 Absint delicia detraccio ciapula nxe. 

Assumptoqtfe cibo. reddatur gratis christo. 

Priuetur mensa. qui spreuerit hec documenta. 



1 or$ struck out, and om written instead. 



THE PAGE STANDmO AT TABLE. 33 

Avoid loud laughter ; thus mayst thou be disparaged. 
20 Beware of stretching thy jaws with a great bolus. 

And don't eat food with a double part of the mouth at once. 
Thou shalt never laugh nor speak with thy mouth full, 
Kor shalt thou make a noise with thy dish by too much 
stuffing. 
24 Let not the spoon stand ever on the dish or on the plate. 
And if thy mouth be stained, thou shalt not drink until it be 

wiped. 
A dish taken away from the table, thou shalt not recall 
Kor shalt thou spit over the table, nor down upon it ever, 
28 Not scrape nor scratch thine own flesh with thy fingers. 
Be thy hand ever clean ; let it avoid to wipe the nose. 
At table beware of cleaning thy teeth with thy 'knife. 
When thou boldest in thy mouth meat, beware of super- 
adding drink. 
32 Beware of touching ever at table what may offend your 
companions, 
Of stroking ever the cat & the dog. 
Beware of staining the cloth with the knife at table. 
Thou wilt always beware of blurting out with (thy) drink 
& food. 
36 Let not the salt be touched by meat in the vessel in which 
it is served up. 
K thou art wise, spit beyond the vessel when thou washest. 
Let there be fear at meals, benediction, reading, time. 
Let thy speech be short, thy countenance cheerful ; let part 
be given to the poor. 
40 Let luxury be away, detraction, gluttony, quarrels. 

And when the food is taken, let thanks be paid to Christ. 
Let him be deprived of the table who rejects these teachings* 



31 



^obtts Cfnanbi. 



[Cotton MS. Titus A xx.,/oZ. 175 ro.] 



Go to chnrch In 
the morning. 



[1 MS. e«a«M] 



RzerdM before 
food la whole- 
itome; 

It rellevea ftill 
bellios. 



K(wp ont of 
troubleg. and 
don't g«t angrjr. 



When abont to 
feast, 

parse your 

bo wok, 

wash yoor hands. 



hare clean baslnfl 



Audi, disce, modam cenandi, si tibi fausto, 

Insigni, lepido, gazarum copia floret. 

Ecdmam mano repetas, missa celobiata. 
4 Sanior ut viuas, placidos tibi quere labores^ 

Humores cmlms^ ipse queas purgare nociuos. 

Querens, inueniea species tibi mille laborum. 

Ante cibum sano labor est laudabili!^ omnt^ / 
8 Vtilis est et ei requies, dape ventre refecto. 

Alleuiat ventres labor inflatas moderatus,^ 

Dissipat humores nocuos, et fleuma ; calorcm 

Accendit; stomachi compages stringere fertur. 
12 Ocia cum roquie 8U7zt sanis ualde nociua, 

Illis precipue quos nutrit grossa dieta. 

Si vis incolumem, si vis te reddere sanum, 

Tolle graues curas, irasci crede prophanum, 
1 6 Surgere post epulas, sompnum fuge meridia[nu]m. 

Si desint medici ti'&i, sic medici tibi fiant ; 

Sit tibi mens ieta, labor, moderata dieta. 

Tempus ei affectus epulandi cum tibi detur, 
20 Intestinon^m primo purgacio fiat ; 

Hinc manibt/^ stando doTietur mapptda limpha; 

Si sit yemSy limpha tibi' prestita sit calefacta ; 

Mappula sit niuea, de riuo sit tibi limpha. 
24 Jjitus et exterius sint pelues * mundificati ; 

* MS. moderatos. ^ MS. bic. * PeWes dicnntar 

Gallice bacin. Diet, of John de GarUnde. 'Wright's Vocab. p. 132. 



35 



.%\t Wi^ flf fining. 



[Englished literally y\ 



Hear & learn the way of dining, if to you happy, 
Distinguished, cheerful, fulness of wealth abounds. 
Seek the church in the morning when niass is peifonned. 
4 That you may live in sounder health, seek for youiself quiet 

labours 
By which you may be able yourself to purge hurtful humours. 
If you seek, you will find for yourself a thousand sorts of 

labours. 
To a man in good health every kind of labour before food is 

commendable ; 
8 To him, too, rest is expedient, when his stomach is re- 
plenished with food. 
Moderate exercise relieves swelled stomachs ; 
It dissipates noxious humours & phlegm [?]; 
It excites warmth; it is said to brace the fifamework of 

the stomach. 
12 Inactivity with rest is exceedingly hurtful to persons in good 

health. 
Especially to those whom a gross diet nourishes. 
If you would make yourself safe, if you woiQd (make) yourself 

sound. 
Remove burder^some cares, count it a sin to be angry, 
IG Avoid rising up after meals, & sleep at midday. 

K doctors fail thee, thus let doctors be made for you : 
Let there be to you a cheerftil mind, exercise, & moderate diet. 
When time & inclination for banqueting are given to you, 
20 In the first place let there be made a purgation of the bowels; 
Next, let a napkin & water be given for the hands to one 

standing pj. 
If it be winter, let water be presented to you warmed. 
Let the napkin bo snow-white ; see that the water be from the 

stream. 
24 Within & without, let the basins be cleaned. 

^ The traoBlation is in no way guaranteed as correct thronghont, many of the 
readings and renderings being guesses. 

c2 



36 



MODUS CENA^fDI. 



»Qd knives, 
and ID0W7 ntlt 



Pat only wh<rfe 
loav«58 for dinen. 



Bet on caps and 
gubleta. 



Hftrn counoR of 
diiihesanddritika: 



Ciiltelli nitidi raenso po72ant?/r edcndis. 

Sit niueum, sit sal nitidum, pariterqz^e salary. 

Dempta superficies doniino panis tituZali,^ 
28 Per medium sectus, aed non omnino sit ille. 

Absit diinidiu7» pane7/t mensare cibanti. 

Disci, crateres, cuppe, sint sorde carentes. 

In mensa disci niinis [ampli] siue profundi 
32 Kon apponantur. cupe, calices, ha&eantur 

Ad placidum^ dominie magni, parui, mediocres. 

Nulla ma,nu8 discis presumat fundere limpham. 

Si desunt pelues, calices limpbare laborent ; 
36 £scaru77i et potus epulantib<^ ordo niin^strent. 

liustica mensa tibi non sit du^n diues ha&eris. 

Apposita mensa, ponatur Candida mappa ; 

Candida, tnta Meet, mensa* seruire valebit ; 
40 Sordida, coniritsLy lotrici sit titulata. 
fPoL 176 6.] Cum sale, cultellos, panem, ponunt ({ue clientes. 

Ponant pulmenta,* coclearia qvLando geruntur. 

Ad mensas dapibu^ bene tacta fiue/ite mi/zis- 
tront. 
44 Primo persone maiori fercula dantur. 

Cames porcine, cum vaccinis et ouinis, 

Aucine* cames, pulli, pi[n]gues^M6 capone% 
, Carnes agnine, porcelline, vituline ; 
48 Dentur galline, leporine, ipod et aprme, 

Cames hinnulee, damine, caperoline ; 

Perpingues volucres dentur, qtios educat aer. 

Istw fppowtw, sint inter fercula® pice, 

* The beste breadc, panis primarius, HoQseholde breade, 
panit plebeiua. Withals. And see line iO of this poem. For the 
'upper slice', cp. Russell, 1. 342, p. 139, of Fart I. of this Yolume. 

^for plocitum ' }for mensae 

^ Fulmentumf ti, meate with a brothe, grewcll or pottage. 
PtUmentum^ a meate made like grewell or wortes. Grewell, j»W- 
mentarium. Withals. 

^ Boe/eretilum, a messe. Nominale, Wright's Vocab., p. 266. 

« Oaro aueina, gose flesche. "Wright's Vocab., p. 200. Goose, 
Auea. P. Parv. 



1. Pork, beef, 
gtH-se, capong, 
Unib, veal. 

&WIU. kids, &e. 



THE WAY OF DININO. 37 

Let clean knives be put on the table for the eatables.^ 

Let the salt be snow-white <& clean, & likewise the salt* 

cellar.* 
Let an upper slice of fine bread be taken off for the master, 
28 Let it (the bread) be cut' through the middle, but not entirely 

cut. 
Do not put on table [?] a half loaf for one eating. 
Let the dishes, bowls, & cups, be without dirt 
On the table, let not dishes too [ample] or deep 

32 Be laid ; let cups & goblets be had 

At the pleasure of the master, large, small or middling- sized. 

Let no hand presimie to pour water on the dishes. 
If basins* are wanting, let the cups be pressed to hold water. 
36 Let a succession of eatables & drink minister to the feasters. 
Let not your table be rustic while you are counted rich. 
When the table is set up,* let a white table-cloth be placed 

on it, 
If it be white, though crumpled (or ragged), it may avail to 
serve the table; 
40 If it be dirty, (and) crumpled (or ragged), let it be made fine 
by the laundress. 
With the salt, the pages place knives & bread. 
Let them serve potage when the spoons are brought. 
Let them serve with food at the tables, the water having been 
well touched (=\vith clean hands ?) 
44 At first, dishes are brought to the more important person, 
Flesh of pork, with cow beef, & mutton. 
Goose flesh, chickens, & fat capons. 
Lambs' flesh, sucking pigs, veal. 
48 Let hens* flesh, hares, & afterwards boars' flesh, be served ; 
Flesh of fawns, hinds, kids ; 

Let very fat birds which the air produces be given. 
When these have been served, let there be served between 
the dishes, pies,® 

' not eaters ; see edentibus^ 1. 57, edentes, 1. 80. 

' The huge salt-cellar was the chief orn;micnt of the board ; it was usually of 
silyer, & the canning of the silyersmith was exerted to render it ornamental & 
grotesque. It formed a conspicuous object on the table before or on the right 
hand of the master of the house. It appears in various shapes. . . Edmund, carl 
of March, in 13S0, left to his son and daughter each a silver salt in the shape of a 
dog. Sometimes they were wrought in the form of a chariot, with four wheels, 
with which they could be passed down the table with ease. See a MS. in the 
Brit. Mus., Addit. MS. 12,228, fol. 6, 9, 226. --Ihmestie Architecture, v. 2, p. 69, 
xi?th century. 

^ There is no word for sectm to agree with, except pnnis understood. 

* Basone wesselle (basun or bason vesscU, P.) Pelvis, Prompt. Parv. 

^ The tiible was a moveable bourd set on trestles. 

« Pye, bryd [t i. bird]. Pica. Withals. 



38 



M0DU8 CENANDI. 



S.Piwtios. 

3L fVied diihot. 

4. Gaufrw, 4c. 



IVOce Mlt with 
yonr flngen, not 
your knife. 



After meals, let 
all wash their 
handa; 



the Prieatp 



and other guests. 



52 Past/Ui' cum sarculiB;' -pogt moUia dentur. 
Fercula sint frixa, postrema cibaria cene. 
Oblatas, speciesy^ fmctusy galfras,^ nebulas^tt^,^ 
Mapi^la continesit, patronis qxmndo g^nintur. 

56 In mensa licite patronis delic^osas 

Discis allati^ vacuis, dat edentibu^ escas. 
In cena, digitisy sal, non cultro capiatur, 
Cum sit opus pisces [ - - «] salire recentes. 

60 Fine dato cene, frustatim frangere curent 
In mensa famz^li panem, qui detur egenis, 
QviOTum qui ius (])famuU spaisum po«itum sal, 
Contactum dapibt^ in vasa reponere nolint. 

64 Mappis subtractis, manibt^ prestabiYwr vnda ; 
Parce ^ prcstetur, manucw ne defluat ilia ; 
Effusa limpba, manibz^ sit mappula presens. 
DuTTi g6ritur, scapulo ponatur mapttla leuo ; 

68 Lumina po^ enent aZ^as dum fundit[2£r] vnda. 
Presbi^ero memores prtmo prestare fluentem, 
Si sit co^uiua ; digitos cum lauerit ip^, 
Effundas manue loturam : dein^ ministres 



^ Pyc, pasty. Pastillos is glosa&d pasieya by John de Garlande, 
in p. 127 of Wright's Vocabularies. Artoerea, ptutiUulua, Prompt. 
Porv. rastilla, a cake, crakncl or wygge. Ortos, in P. P. 

^ ? for aureulisy sprouts, brossels. Cp. the dishes *■ tartlett, cab- 
ages,' &c., Russell, 1. 521, p. 151 of Part I here. 

' Mee species, -^ spyce, Nbminale, 15th century. Wr. Voc. p. 
227, col. 1. * wafyrre — gaufre. Palsgrave. 

^ Nebula. Glossal Biblicse MSS. Tipsanas, panes qui dicuntur 
Nebttla, Ducange. To show that they were different from oblaia^ 
his editor (?) quotes from the ancient rites of the Byzantine Church. 
" Interim dum cantatur hymnut, deferantur panes asymi ^ Nebtti€B 
^ Oblata. Sic in Consuetudinibus MSS. Monasterii Solemniac. 
itcnim atque iterum legitur : uid Coenam, Nebulas ^ Oblatas ^ tria 
ova.** But see " obly or vbly (brcde to sey wythe masse) N^ula" 
(P. Parv.), and Mr Way's note, p. 361 ; " Nebula^ a wafron 
(Ortus), * take obleys, oj^er wafrons, in stede of lozeyns' (Forme of 
Cury, p. 21)." * Take obles and wafrons,* Ziber Cure, p. 22, 1. 6. 
John dc Garlande will have it that nebula is the same as ffa/ra, and 
repeats idem est twice on p. 126 (Wright's Yocab.) ; but no doubt 
they were different. « ? MS. parte 



THE WAT OP DINING. 39 

52 and pasMes, with sprouts (?); afterwards let soft things be 

given. 
Lot dishes of things fried be the last course of the dinner.' 
Let a napkin contain wafers, spices, fruits, gaufres, light 

cakes, 
when they are served to the lords. 
56 Empty plates being brought, he allowably gives delicious food 

to his patrons 
eating at the table 
At the dinner, lot salt be taken by the fingers, not by the 

knife, 
When it is necessary to salt fresh fish. 
60 When the end of the dinner comes, let the servants take care 

to break up 
The bread on the table into pieces to be given to the poor, 
Whose right it is p]. Let the servants avoid putting 
Into the salt-cellars the salt lying scattered on the tabic, & 

soiled by the meats. 
64 The table-cloth being removed, water is to be furnished for 

their [the diners'] hands ; 
Let it be given sparingly, lest it run down upon the sleeves. 
When the water has been poured upon the hands, let a 

napkin be ready. 
While it is carried, let the napkin be carried on his left 

shoulder ; 
68 Afterwards let his [the servant's] eyes wander in another 

direction []] while the water is poured out : 
Eemember [)] to offer the running water to the priest first. 
If he be a guest ; when he has washed his fingers himself 
Pour washing water on the hand, & then serve 



^ See the quotation before from Ziber Cure CoeoruMj p. o5, 
Also bakyn mete, my der brother, 
And most daynte, come bchynde. 



40 



MODUS CENANDI. 



Don'i wipe your 
teeth on your 
napUn, 



or put your knife 

ou the aalt-^elUr. 

[FoL 170.] 

On FMt-Days. 
serve soup. Ash, 7 



and fried 
puddings. 



Don't butter your 
bread with your 
thumb. 



Don't lick your 
knife. 



72 Vndam conuixna aliis, uelut expe/tt oida 

Extersis manibt/^y denies non mappula iergai, 
Interea grates soluantur cuncta regentL' 
Sunt quidam lepidi quibus est modo [veiBa?] 
voluntas, 

76 Quod po^ pulmenta data, fisrcula dant melioia; 
lUis cenat/«, apponant^ fercula grossa. 
Qui uelit, hac licite potent noui^ate potiiL 
Pectzi« auis, piscisqti^ capu^, rostrum quognie 

80 CultroruTTi mauice, ponantur versus edentes ; 

Cultri mensati nolint bonerare salare. 

Dentur pulmenta iehinisL cum celebrentttr ; 

Allec, mullus, salwo, co[n]grus ; ipod leuiora 
84 Fercula mensentur, roche, percbeqwe, lupiqtie.' 

Kon admensetur frustum piscis sine pelle. 

Ultima fercula mollia, frixaqwe* farta* sequoniur. 

Si desint pisces, buturum, lac, caseus, oua 
88 Dentur conuiuis prandere volentibw* ilia. 

Excisus tenue sit caseus inueteratt^; 

Scindaturqt/e recens spisse cenantibu^ Uhun. 

Caseolum, buturum, tibi pollice non preme pani, 
92 Qua comestura^ si mollia sunt, mouea[n]tui 

Cultro, vel panis crusta ; mappa teneantur, 

Vt crusto dempto pona[w]tur pane cauato. 

Genet cu?;^ pane, comedens, non sorbeat iZZa, 
• 06 Ni sedeat cene proprte dominator in ede. 

Non cultrwm lingat, nee cxdirum tergat in ouis * 

Permotw ; cultrwm contersum pane reponat. 

In mensa non co7/imaculet pectz^ neque palmas; 
100 Sen mappa ^ concas seruare ® salare tenetur; 

1 MS. rogenti. ^for apponunt ' MS. supiqtie 

* Fried meate, eihua fn'xua. Friffo, g%»^ xij vel ftft, xium, vel 
etutn, to frie. A fried egge, ouutn frixtim, Withals. And see 
FHxoriuv/i (id est calefactorium) in Ducange. 

B A Puddyng, fartum. Withals. Hoefartum . . hoe tueetum^ a 
podyng. Wr. Voc. p. 266. • for oris 

' .> mappa * }for sen rose 



THE WAY OP DINING. 41 

72 Water to other guests, as their rank demands. 

The hands being wiped, let not the napkin wipe the teeth. 

In the mean while let thanks be paid to the universal ruler. 

There are some lively people to whom the plan has been 

changed (? in this respect.) 

76 That after the giving of potage, they give better dishes ; 

These dishes having been dined off, they put on heavy 

dishes ; 

He who pleases will be able allowably to adopt this novelty. 

Let the breast of a bird, & the head of a fish, & the tip of 

his nose, 

80 [And] the handles of knives, be put opposite the eaters ; 

Let the knives when put on the table be unwilling to load 

the salt-cellar. 
Let potage be given when fasts are celebrated. 
Herring, muUet, salmon, conger ; afterwards let lighter 
84 Dishes be put on table, — ^roaches, & perches, & pikes. 

Let not a bit of a fish without the skin be put on the table. 

Last, let soft dishes, & fried puddings follow. 

If fishes are wanting, let butter, milk, cheese, eggs, 

88 Be given to the guests who are willing to eat them. 

Let old cheese be cut thin, 

And let fresh cheese be cut thick for those that eat it. 

Do not press the cheese & the butter on to your bread 

with the thumb. 

92 In (the case of) which eating, if the things are soft, let them 

be smeared 
With a knife, or with a crust of bread; let them be held with 

a cloth 
So that when the crust is taken away, they may be placed in 

the hollowed bread; 
Let him eat them [cheese, &c.] with bread when he eats them, 

and not swallow them (by themselves) 
96 Unless he sits master of his own feast in the house. 

Let him not lick his knife, nor wipe his knife on the edges 

of the plates (?) 
Moved completely ; let him put back his knife wiped on 

bread. 
At table let him not stain his breast nor his hands. 
100 Whether a cloth is held to preserve the spoons & the salt- 
cellar (?); 



42 



HODUS CENANDL 



Don't eat hntA 
picked off the 
floor. 



IXon't poke your 
floffen into ogga. 



BoMtfrwh 



Bat ehlre-eanoo 
with hare, 

[Fol 170 h.] 



pepper«auoe with 
wUd 



Si vas defuerit, sit uas presens h.\imti8 ill/, 

Ocius obiectas discamis efferat iUas. 

Si caga cadat a mensa, panis, caro, piscis, 

104 Mense ponatur, itarato nee comedatur. 

Durum uel frixum documents non eget ouum^ 
Ouu7/i non fodeas digiti^, ud pollice verso ; 
^tramine, festuca, cultro tantum moueantur. 

108 Conuiuis vnum now dimidiabiYur ouum ; 
Albumen durum pressum palmis spoliatt^r; 
A conchis ' po«^ non cenes deinde vitellu7». 
Allea deposcunt SLMtemy sulphumque, sinapim; 

112 Tuscetuwiqi^' recens assetttr,* cum sale detur. 
Cum sauigeo^ uel serpillo cocta recens sit 
Veruecina caro, comcdenti sit sine jure.* 
Cum sale similtYer,^ uel iure, cibt^ sale mixto ; 

116 Cami ouict^li, leporis, ciueta^ paretur. 
Assalte, bene lardate, cames et aprine, 
Vrcine, cum seru[i]ni8, camesqt^e gruine, 
£t pauonine, damlne, 8i[n]t & olores. 

120 Auce siluestres cenanti cum piperatis;' 
Cum sale donentur cenantiln^ inferiores. 
Siluestres volucres lia2»ea[7^]t cum iure cuminum. 

^ Coneha, Plin. A holow vessel, as a boUo, bason, or panne. 
Cooper. * Stipes, Gallice dicontar eonehet.' John de Garlande, Wr. 
Voc. p. 132. Fr. eonche coqaille. Roquefort. 

' Hagas, puddynge. Tucetum. Prompt. Parv. See note 2 there, 
p. 220, and the Recipe in Liber Cure, p. 52-3, for making it, of 
sheep's heart, kidney, bowels, parsley, herbs, suet, eggs, &c., &c 
** OmasuSy in tripa vel venfriculus qui continet alia vieeera^ a trype, or 
a podynge, or a wesannt, or haggcs." Ortns, in P.P. A Hagesse, 
tueetum. Withals. l^tcetum, a kynde of meate made of porke or 
other fleash chopped small. Cooper, 1584. A kind of meat made 
of porkes flesh chopped or other stuff, a giggot, a haggas, minced 
meat, mingled with scwet, such as Collar-beef, &c. Littleton, 1678. 
Tueetia u glossed pudingis in Neckam*s De ITUneilibus, 12th cent. 
Wright's Vocab. p. 104. 

' Asso, -Mw, ^ torreOy -re»^ ^etum^ to roste. Withals. 

^ MS. may be Sanigeo ? Sagna, HerboB, sen junci palustris 
genus, Typha palustris major, Gallis Mcteae . . un. 1221. . . Sania, 
Eadem notione. . . Decimas Saniarum, pabeli, yenationam. Du- 
cange. 



THE WAY OP DINING. 43 

If a vessel be wanting, let the ground serve as a vessel for 
him. 



If by chance, bread, flesh, fish, fall from the table, 
104 Let it be put on the table, and not be eaten when it is put 
back. 
An egg hard or fried does not need instruction. 
Don't dig the egg with your fingers, nor with your thumb 

turned down, 
Let them be moved only with a straw, a blade of grass, or a 
knife. 
108 One egg shall not be halved to the guests. 

The hard white of the egg is stripped off, being pressed by 

the hands. 
Do not afterwards eat the yolk with spoons [?]. 
Garlic however, & asafoetida[?], demand mustard; 
112 And let fresh haggis be roasted, let it be given with salt. 
Let mutton be cooked fresh with sage or wild thyme ; 
To you eating it (mutton) let it be without gravy. 
With salt, in like manner, or gravy, the food, salt being 
mixed with it ; 
116 To flesh of a little sheep, of a hare, let civeye (chive or onion 
sauce ^) be present. 
Let these be salted [1] (&) well larded : boars' flesh. 
Bears' flesh, with stags', & cranes' flesh, 
And peacocks', fawns', & swans'. 
120 Wild geese to him supping, with pepper sauce ; 

Let inferior ones be given with salt to those supping. 
Let wild birds have cumin with their gravy. 

^ Pottago, iu8, 'Hsy iuseum & iusetilum. Withals. 

' ? simplicitcr. 

'' See the recipe for Karya in dutyey p. 60 of this yolumc. 

" Piperatum, Condimentum k pipere dictam, apud Apiciam, lib. 3, cap. 14. . . 
Piperaia, in Gharta an. 1148. apud Purlcellum in Basilica Ambrosiana, pag. 704. 
Pallos plenos & comem Taccinam, cum J^tperata . . . Galli Foivrade dicunt. 
Dacang^. '•Foyvrada : f. A seasoning with, or sauce made of, Pepper.' CotgraTO. 



44 



MODUS CENANDI. 



Garlic miits 
mallet; 



mustard does for 
salmon, 



pepper-aaooe 
for perch. 



A Recipe for a 
Sauce. 



Gallmas, pi[n]gae8, pullos, gallosqt/^ capones. 
124 Est gos (?) si sint assati, cum sale denti^r. 

Allia connenimtt mullo*. cougroque recenti, 

AUeci sic que elige* [- -] ius cum piperata. 

Anguille sint assate. piper, allia, qzioduis' 
128 Elige ; murenam* prandebis cum piperata 

Salmo recens ha^eat pipeT^tam stue sinapim. 

Cum salsa roche, dorsi, pisces^ite minores 

Tenentur ; perchis bouat* sit piperata, lupis^ti^ * 
132 Panis areecosu^^ assati/^, sal, piper, epar, 

Piscis seu volucris, istis seruicia mixta ; 

Elixi^ pisct^, carnis ius pange recentur ; 

Sint contnta simt^l, bullitaqt^e,^ sit piperata ; 
136 Apta, soporata,^^ fiet cenantibt<« illam. 

Diptannu«) peretrwrn, * ' piper, allia, soluitttrruta ;'* 

Hiis apium, maratrttm,'* ponati/r petrosilinum ;'* 

Cum micis aibi panis sbnul ista terantur, 
140 Et sale permodico "post conficiantttr aceto,** 

Vel gelido latice, si copia desit aceti. 

Pars apij miTior, & rute msaairique sit equa ; 

He^ba^^^m maior sit eis data pars aliarum. 
144 Sint viridis folia pom eoTiscisa rsnniitim ; 

Sint albi mice panis, modicumque piper, sal, 

Sic seruicia, sic que vitelium, cum butiro lac ; 

Lardatt^ sit, assatt^ sit, ip^ ciueta : 
148 Sic confecta [^ - ] cenare volentibi^ illam. 

^ MS. niillo. ' } for quoptt 

' The s-like letter before elige may belong to it, making it 
eeliffe; but I belieye it is the contraction for que. If it is selige^ 
ate mnst be read ait. Could the zeliga be jelly-fishes, or what Muffett 
calls ** Orbea : Lumps are of two sorts, the one as round almost as a 
bowlc, the other resembling the fillets of a calfe ; either of them 
is dcfoimed, shapeless and ugly, so that my Maidcs once at Ipswich 
were afraid to touch it. Being flayed they resemble a soft and 
gcllied substance ; whereupon the Hollanders call them Snot-Jiahea*' 
p. 166. * Lawmpery. Jfurena, lampreda. P. Parv. 

* }for bona. • Ltipi^ Pikes or River- wolves ; with the 

way to cook them. Muffett on Food, p. 185. 

' ? acetoaua, unleavened ; or « Ilic etrtocapua, a symnylle.* Wr. 
Voc, p. 241, and p. 198, coL 1. 



THE WAY OF DINING, 45 

Fat hens, fat pullets, cocks, & capons, 
124 . . . . if they be roasted, let them be given with salt. 
Garlic suits mullet & fresh conger ; 
And likewise to herring take gravy with pepper sauce. 
Let eels be roasted. Take pepper and garlic with anything you 
like(1) 

128 You shall sup on lamprey with pepper sauce ; 

Let &esh salmon have pepper sauce or mustard. 

"With salt roach, let do7*8i and smaller fish 

Be served [?]. For perches let there be good pepper sauce, & 
for pikes 
132 Bread . . . roasted, salt, pepper, liver. 

Fish or bird, with these (let) ale (be) mixed; 

Make the gravy of boiled fish, of fresh flesh. 

Let them be rubbed together, & let the pepper sauce be boiled ; 
136 It will be made fit for those that dine upon it, being flavoured. 

Ditany, pellitory (1), pepper, garlic, rue, is pounded up with 
themp] ; 

To these let celery, fennel, parsley, be put ; 

Let these be pounded along with crumbs of white bread, 
140 And let them be made up afterwards with a little salt and 
vinegar, 

Or with cold water if a supply of vinegar be wanting. 

Let the proportion of celery be less, and that of rue & fennel 
eqiud. 

Let a greater proportion of other herbs be given to them, 
144 Let leaves of a green leek be cut up small. 

Let there be crumbs of white bread, and a little pepper, salt, 

So ale, & so yolk of egg, milk, with butter. 

Let it be larded, let it be roasted, the civeye itself, 
148 So made for those who wish to dine off it. 

B Sodden or boiled fle83bo, earo elixa. A sodden ^gs^ ouum elixum. Withals. 

* BuUiOy lis, liui, to scathe or boil. Withals. 

><* Boporatus, gcwyrsmed [putrid], x or zi Gent Wr. Voc. p. 289, col. 1. 
} for saporata^ savoury, flaToury, from sapor. 

" Peretre herbe (or petyr ««/ra ; peretyr). Feretrum. P. Parr. Herb-iVf^, 
the cowslip. Gerard. Feter : 3. CowslijM. Archceol. xxx. 411 .. 6. Some kind 
of cosmetic, *'her boxes oipeeier, and patches," 1689. Halliwell's Gloss. } Fyre- 
thrum, the plant Spanish chamomile, pellitory (Anthemis pyrethrum, L.) ; Fr. 
*' FyreihrCf tne hearbe called Bartram, or Pellitorie ; or, the right Pellitorie of 
Spaine." Cotgrave. *' Pyrethruniy Plin. An hearbe hauyng a leafe like fenell, and 
a roote very bityng and bote, muche vsed in medicine." Cooper. In horto 
magistri Johanms sunt herbe . . petrosihnum, dictamnus . . piretum. Jn. de Giir- 
lande. Wright's Voc. p. 136. 

»' ^rS. rata. " Hoe maretrum, An» ffenTlle-sede. Wright, p. 265. 

^' Two bushels of the seeds of FetrosU were bought by the King's Gard[n]er at 
Eltham, 41 £dw. HI., Hunter. Addl MS., 24527, fo. 88. i» MS. a orco. 



46 



MODUS CENANDI. 



How to serre 
up birds. 



[Fol. m.) 



Don't eat 
cabbagw: they 
make your belly 
ache. 



The beneflti of 
Bloodletting. 



Never get angry. 



Always be 
moderate. 



Cum coUo, capite, pinnis, omnis voliicris pes, 
Omnis p^rfissus collu7/iy simul & cap2^ eius, 
Cum pinnis & cum rostro longo peracuto 

152 Corpore frustato, domino mense sit ' edentL 
Si sit opztfy Yolucres tales assentur in aula. 
Sit porcina recens caro prestita fleubo^anito. 
Cames ^vHorumy gallinarum que, fabequ^, 

156 MoUia sint oua data^ hiUirum^ dulce, leuesqtt^ 
Eius 8i[n]t potus, s^ruicia uel veterata. 
Sint piia, poma, data, pruna,^ coctana,^ costa ;^ 
Kon lac nee buturum detur, nee caseus illi 

160 Non comedat caules stomaco ve^emente^ grou- 
antes. 
Piima dies veneri non sit data, sine soporL 
Lumtna clarificat, sincerat fleubotonia 
Mentes & cerebrum, calidas facit esse medullas, 

164 Vesicam purgat, stomacum veneremgwe cohcrce^, 
Auditus aperit, memorem reddit leuiorem, 
Vocem p7'oducit, acu/t sensum, minmt^e 
Sompnos, emollit iratos, anxia tollit, 

168 Tedia sz^buertit, oculoT^m curat aquosos 
Cursus, inuitat digestum, sana mmistrat. 
Iras, colloquia, fugiat ; comodat moderanter, 
Potet, & obcenis teneantt^r hxmin& pn?7za. 

172 Luce Becundsk tercio, lux grauior solet e«8e. 

Quarts dies cere[r]i detur, bacho, veneriqt«e : 
Obceruare tam^n^ studeat moderamen in istis; 
Que lux qimria, docet, ignouerit ® religicni. 

176 Tritica confirmant corpus, yentremque cohercewt ; 

* MS. XLt • ? MS. Vnm. « MS. patuna. 

* Coeiona . . w/ Coctanea, A kinde of figges. Cooper. " In Tir- 
gulto mogistri Jobannis cerasus fort cerasaf pirns pira^ pomus poma^ 
jyrunm pruna, eoetantu eoctanoy" Jn. de Garlando, "Wright's Voc^ 
p. 136. 

* Cosium, * Commonly called Coctts & Kerha Maria, It hath 
but one stalke halfe a cubite high, and leanes lyke Betony, but 
thinner.' Cooper. * vehemente is taken adverbially. 

' ? MS. tn. ^ Tohe read ignorit 



THE WAY OF DININa 47 

Of every bird let there be brought up the foot, with the neck, 

head, & wings, 
Always cut open as to its neck and head at the same time, 
With wings, & with the long very sharp beak, 
152 With body cut up into pieces, for the master of the table 
when he eats. 
If it is necessary, let such birds be roasted in the halL 
Let pork, when fresh, be handed over to the blood-letter. 
Flesh of chickens, & hens, & beans, 
156 Let soft egg be given, sweet butter-(milk), & let there be light 
Draughts of it, or old ale. 

Let there be pears, apples, dates'[]], plums, figs, tansy (1); 
Let not milk, or butter, or cheese, be given to him. 
160 Let him not eat cabbages that annoy much upon the 
stomach. 
Let not the early day be given to sensual-indulgence or to 

sleep. 
Phlebotomy clears the eyes, purifies 
The minds & the brain, makes the marrows warm, 
164 Clears the bladder, restrains the stomach & sensual desire. 
Opens the sense of hearing, renders the memory [7] fresher, 
Lengthens the voice, sharpens the sense, & diminishes 
Slumbers, softens angry people, takes away anxieties, 
168 Eemoves weariness, euros the watery flow of the eyes, 

Encourages digestion, and ministers (to him) healthy feelings. 
Let bini avoid anger <& conversation ; let him eat moderately, 
Let him drink (moderately), & let his eyes be kept firom obscene 
things on the first day. 
172 Than the second day, the third day is accustomed to be 
graver ; 
Let the fourth day be devoted -to bread, wine, & love : 
Let him study however to observe moderation in these things; 
What the fourth day teaches,*® let him allow his conscience [1], 
176 Wheat strengthens the body & confines the stomach ; 

* Fr. dattes, dactes, dactyli (dates) : Thierry. Lat. data^ gifts, presents. 

><> ue, its excesses. 



48 



MODUS CBNANDI. 



Unfennented 
bread It good. 



Old wine It 
drying: 



new wine 
WMrmliig; 



ftU wince heating. 



[Fol. 177 6.) 

Ale Btrengtbeni 
and fattens men. 



Stnnguwt, infrigidant, & vires ordea pr^stant ; 

Guttam comminuit ^ (?) & coida siligo ' perurit. 

Non ieim&ntatus panis hene corpora nutrit, 
180 Ventrem procurat ;* prestantur taZe caloies. 

Pulmentum molle mollit ventralia [nostra.] 

Corpus alit faba ; strmgtt cum cortice ventreTTty 

Desiccat fleuma, sto^nacum lumen que relidit.^ 
184 Viwwm, crede, netuSy corpus desiccat & vrit, 

Et coleiam nutrit ; ventrem constTingere fertur 

Si iugantttr* aqua ; moderatum corpora nutn't, 

* 

Prouocat vrinam ; mistum cito soluit & inflate 

188 Dant noua maioreTTi poto[ri] vina calorem. 
Sunt rmtritiusL ^ plus dulcia Candida vina, 
Yrinam curant, capiti nocumenta mintstrant. 
J Sunt calefactit^a,^ generelitery omnia vina. 

192 Ebrius efficitur sicius potans nigra vina,^ 

Ventres constringunt, vrunt, & vicara ledunt. 
Debilitant & desiccant potted nimii * haustv^, 
Permodict^ que cibus, & salsa cibaria frixa, 

1 96 Ante cibum sompnti^, studium, vinum veteratum^ 
Et labor assiduus, & solis fsruidus estus, 
Fleubotoma frequ^ns, metus, inmoderata libido, 
Cura grauis, sudor, ieiunia longa, dolores. 

200 Grossos humores nutnt s^ruicia, vires 

Prestat, & augmentat camerTi, gener&tque crti^ 

orem; 
Prouocat vnnam, noua, ventrem mollit & inflat. 
Potus aque nimium sumptew nocuu« s/t edenti ; 

204 In&igidat nutrirn^n^um [?] [ - - ] eonfundit & 
escam. 

> MS. Mmmitrit or eonnutrtt 

3 Manchet or fyne bread, tUigineus pania. Withals. Maffett^ 
speaking of Wheat, says, * it shall be sufficient for ns to describe the 
sorts of this Country, which are especially two: The one red, called 
£obu» by Columella, and the other yery white and light called 
SUiffOf whereof is made our purest manchet' p. 231. In England 
our finest Manchet is made without Leaven, p. 241. * Siligo 
dicitur Gallice seffle,* John de Oarlande, p. 127. 



THB WAY OP DINING 49 

Barley braces, cools, & gives strength ; 

Wliite wheat wastes away the gout, & bums up the heart 

Bread not fermented nourishes the body well ; 
1 80 It is good for the stomach : heats are furnished to the stomach 
in this way. 

Soft pottage softens the coat of our stomachs. 

The bean nourishes the body ; with the husks, binds the 
stomach, 

Dries up the phlegm, binds (?)^ the stomach & eye. 
184 Old wine, believe me, dries up & bums the body, 

And excites bile ; it is said to constipate the stomach 

If it be mixed with water ; when mulled (7) it nourishes the 
body. 

It provokes urine ; when mixed, it relaxes & inflates. 
188 New wine gives greater warmth to the drinker ; 

Sweet white wines are more nutritious, 

They produce urine, they minister mischief to the head. 

All wines, as a general rule, are heating. 
192 A man is made more quickly drunk by drinking dark 
wines. 

They constipate the stomach, bum it, & hurt the bowels. 

Too lai*ge draughts of drink weaken & dry up, 

Also very little food, & salt food fried, 
196 Sleep before fbod, study, old wine. 

And perpetual labour, & the fiery heat of the sun, 

Frequent bloodletting, fear, immoderate lust. 

Excessive care^ sweat, long fasts, pains. 
200 Ale nourishes gross humours, affords 

Strength, & increases the flesh, & produces blood ; 

When new, it provokes urine, softens & inflates the beDy« 

A draught of water too much taken may be hurtiyil to a 
person eating; 
204 It cools the nutriment ... & spoils the food. 



' MS. procurant. * ? reUnitf unseals, opens. " }for lungotMr. 

« MS. Sui. ' ? MS. calefaccma. ^ MS. rina nig^ra. • ? MS. nimis. 

D 



50 . 



HODUB GENANDI. 



LunbMidbMf 
■vfttU oim'i ballj ; 



boftr'f floth (Mm 
the body. 



Si sciciunt homines calidi potare fiuentent, 
Temporis ardoze moc^tce,' tunc fiigida dentur. 
Nutn't porci'na caro, stringit leporma ; 

208 Agnine, veruecine ' cames, & ouine, 

Ventrem procumant, infla[n]t, caroqwa bouina. 
Est nimium nocui» lactens porcellus & agnu^ ; 
£8t iuuenis, salsus, IsMcUMlis^ & yeieraJbus, 

212 Sunt nutntiue nimium cames vituline; 
Desiccant, salse nimium^ came veterate. 
Corpr^ra desiccat, & plus caro nutn't apnn& 
Cum pedibu^ fissis eet sanior omnibti^ ouis. 

216 Siluestris volucris plus sicca maglaz(?) ' egrts. 
Omne genu^ volucrtou prohibetur mollius esse, 
Ac laudabiUs est ^ caro cuius caadida restat. 
Piscis ha^^ns rubeas cames nimium noc^ egns ; 

220 Anseris, anguille caro, nunq^Mim conuenit egrts ; 
Par loca petrosa pisces nantes fiituiales 
Extant egrotis ad vescendu ?n pociores ; 
Equoreus piscis humores nutn't amaros ; 

224 Et pincis ^ pingi^^s febres alit, & caro pinguis. 
Caseus incendit stomachum salsus vetdrati^^, 
Sero digenti^r, ventrem restringere fertur : 
Ac infrigidus (?) . . sa^tis plus nutnt ouinis 

228 CaseuSy & modicum perhibetur stnngare ventrem ; 
Caseus insulsus bane digerit, & bene solm't 
Humectat stomocum buturum, nutnt ^uecalorem, 
Et mollit ventres, humores solue/*e fertur. 
uuk Is nutrittooi. 232 Lac nacto nutrtt, conf ortat, membra calorem 

Epatitf & stoTTiachi contemperat immoderatum ? 
Prouocat vrinam, confert ; pi[n]guedine dempta, 
DiBsipat humorum morsum nocuum calidorum, 



R0d4l«h«d flah 
are bad fbr fiek 
people; 



fat things feed 
ftvers. 



Cheese nnsalted 
is beat. 



1 MS. mote. 

* wedyr scheep. Arietj {b^bieWf bervex Catholicon, in) P. Parr. 
Arietea \s glossed mutiuns in Neckam, & verviees et muitonet both 
idem: p. 112. Wr. Vocab, 

s Some word like conuenit (see 1. 220) is wanted. 

« MS. laudamMS. * ? piscis. 



THE WAY OP DINING. ■ 51 

If heated men thirst to drink liquor, 

In the heat of the weather, then let cold draughts he given 
moderately. 

Pork nourishes, hares' flesh hinds ; 
208 Lamhs', wethers', & ewes' flesh. 

Swell & inflate the stomach, <& so does heef. 

Sucking pig & lamh are exceedingly unwholesome ; 

When young he is laudahle salted, & (also when ho is) old. 
212 Veal is exceedingly nutritious, 

Old flesh, salted too much, dries (one) up. 

Boars flesh dries up the hody, & nourishes (1) it more ; 

(1) The sheep with its clefb feet is more wholesome than all 
(other beasts.) 
216 A wild bird is more to sick people than a dry one (?) 

Every kind of * bird is said to be softer. 

And that (bird) is praiseworthy whose flesh remains white. 

A fish having red flesh hurts sick people excessively ; 
220 The flesh of a goose, of eel, never suits sick people ; 

River fish swimming through rocky places 

Are better for sick persons to eat ; 

A sea fish nourishes bitter humours ; 
224 Fat fish & fat flesh nourish fevers. 

Cheese, salt & old, heats the stomach, 

Is digested late, is said to constipate the bowels ; 

And cold (?) salted cheese nourishes more than sheep's 
(flesh), 
228 And is said to bind the stomach moderately ; 

Cheese unsalted digests food well, & dissolves it. 

Butter moistens the stomach, & produces heat, 

Softens the bowels, & is said to dissipate humours. 
232 Milk nourishes the (new-)bom, comforts the limbs, & tempers 

The immoderate heat of the liver & stomach. 

Provokes urine, is beneficial ; the fat being taken away, 

It dissipates the noxious influence of warm humours. 

* The sense reqaires something like ' eyery tame bird/ for which the Latin 
would have to be altered. 

d2 



62 



MODUS CENANDI. 



Frieleggtare 
not good. 



(7oL 178 &] 



8l6«p ftnt on the 
right Bide, then 
on the left. 



Empty yonr belly 
before eating. 



Rain-wsterlebeet 
to drink. 



Don't waeh in 
■eft-water. 



236 Games augme/itat, iurit/d vulnera cuiat, 

Humectat corpus, homines facies rif . . da»8 ? 
Queque cibaria dulcia, turgida viscera [preestant] 

CUStarde [.' originally a gloaa on cibaria dulcia] 
Anseris ouum nan hene nutnt, nee bene soluit ; 

240 Galline coctuw non ex toto bene nutrit, 
£t leuiter soluit, non est laue^a&^le fnxu?7i. 
LuTnina mane man;£9, surgens, gelida laae^ vnda ; 
Hac pergat iliac modicu7n, modicum sua membra 

244 Extendet, crtnes pectet, dentes fncet : i^ta 

Confortant cerebru/n, confirmant cetera membra. 
Potibu^ & dapibi^e cum venter e^ saciatzi^y 
Esto pedes modicmn pergens. dextrum reqmescit 

248 Paidisper latu^ j bine aZio dormicto fiat. 

Dormitus ' breuitas reficit 'post prandia corpus.^ 
Non onerare sua uelit esci^ viscera vescens, 
Egrotos reddit homines cibi^e inmoderatt/^ ; 

252 Esca nimis sumpta, mentem pectusqt^e' cohartat, 
Confundit stoTnachum, confundit cetera membra. 
Non cibt^ est vtilis donee stomochus vacuetur ; 
A pnmis dapibzi^ dum dulces appetit escas 

256 Esuriens stomochus, detur cihus esurienti ; 
Si mora tollit eum, noeuis humoribt^ ille 
Sirconplext^ erit, quos mox a corpore toto * 
Attrahet, & nimium turbabitwr hinc cerebellum. 

260 Est pluuialis aqua ^upet omnes ^ sana, leuesqtze 
Reddit potentes ;® bene digerit, & bene soluit; 
Est bona fontt^ aqua qui tendit solis ad ortum, 
Ac ad meridiem ; tendens dlio noce^ omnis. 

264 Equoreo lauacrz^m desiccat coi^pora midtum ; 

Dulcisaque strmgit,infrigidat membra lauacrum; 
Balnea sint calida, sit in illis sessio prona^ 
Corporis humiditas ne eomminuatvr in illis. 

268 Temparis^ estiui ieiunia CQipora siccant 



' MS. Dormicto. 

« MS. tuo. 

'MS. Temporibtttf. 



'MS. cborus. 
B MS. omnis. 



3 MS. {M^iosquf. 
^for potantea. 



THE WAY OF DINING. 53 

236 Increases flesh, cures wounds of the . . . 

Moistens the body, 

All sweet foods (make) the bowels tuigid. 

A goose's egg is not very nutritious, & not very digestible ; 
240 A hen*s egg, cooked, does not altogether nourish well, 

And digests slightly, & is not good, fried. 

Let him wash his eyes & hands with cold water when he gets 

up. 
Let him walk to and fro moderately, & moderately stretch 
his limbs, 
244 Comb his hair, brush his teeth ; these proceedings 
Strengthen the brain, & brace the other limbs. 
When the stomach is satiated with eating & drinking, 
Let him take a slight walk. His right side 
248 Bests a while ; and then on the other side let sleeping be done. 

Shortness of sleeping refreshes the body after dinner p] 

Let him avoid loading his bowels with food while he eats ; 

Immoderate food renders men invalids ; 
252 Too much food taken cramps the mind & the breast, 

Disorders the stomach, & disorders the other limbs. 

Food is of no use until the stomach is emptied ; 

While from the beginning of the meal the hungry stomach 
seeks agreeable food, 
256 Let food be given to it hungry. 

If delay takes it, (it, the stomach,) will be surrounded with 

noxious humours 
Which soon it will attract from the whole body. 
And so the brain will be very much disturbed. 
260 Rain water is above all waters wholesome 

And renders those that drink it, light ; it helps digestion & 

dissolves well 
The water of a spring that tends towards the east is good, 
And to the south. Water tending in any other direction is 

always unwholesome. 

264 A washing with sea water dries up the body very much ; 
A washing of sweet water braces & cools the Hmbs. 
Let the baths be warm ; let your seat in them be forwards. 
Lest the moisture of the body should be diminished by them 
(not be wet all over). 

268 The fasts of summer time dry the body. 



54 



MODUS CENANDL 



Vomiting U 

UMftlL 



Be bUd in vpting. 272 



In lummer wt 
damp diihet. 

[FoL178 6.] 



In harrMt-tltnd, 
Avoid bile- 
ualcing food. 



In winter have 
rich food. 



King, chat 
pleasantly, dress 
gaily, 



276 



280 



284 



288 



292 



296 



avoid luxury and 
vice. 



300 



hear good music, 



Qaolibet in mense co/zfert vomiti^^, quia purgat 
Humores nocuos, atomachum lauat os yicio^um. 
Ver, autu[m]pnt«, hiemps, estas, dammantur in 

anno : 
Temp<we vemali, calidus sit & humidus aer, 
Nullum tempos eo melius fit fleubotonie. 
Tunc vsus veneris c<>wferet homini moderatu^, 
Corporeus motus, ventn'sqwc solucio, sudor ; 
Balnea purgentur tunc corpora, cum medicin/s. 
Estas mox* tales siccat ; noscatur 171 illo 
Tempore precipue rubia/n coleram domiuBxi ; 
HuTTiida, frtgida fercula dentur ; sit venw extra. 
Balnea non prosunt ; sint rare fleubotonie ; 
YtiHs & requies sit cum moderamine potu^. 
Tempore messili sociantur fr/gida Biccis ; 
Quod coleram nigram nutrit caueatur ab omnL 
Corporei motiw veneri[8] sit ma/or & vsus 
QuauL sit in estate ; medicalia ^ balnea prosunt. 
Humescit, frigescit, yemps, tenda^ur ad escas ; 
Tempore brumali sit victu^ deliciosus, 
Non ventr/s cursus in eo, nee fleubotonia. 
Proficit ip«a y&niLS moderata, thoro sit amica. 
Seddit non paucos mutaczo temporis egros, 
Natwre propr/uyn confert seruare calorem ; 
Virib?« huTTuznis non hum/da ledere possunt 
Dum natura suo poterit gaudere calore. 
Carmina letificent anemum persepe iocosa ; 
ra77iina ' iocunda cole, desere litigiosa ; 
Sepe t/&i vestis nouitas sit per-speczosa. 
Fercula que sapiant, & pocula sume merosa. 
Indulgere gule caueas \ contempne gulosa : 
Viuej'e morose studias ; caueas viciosa ; 
Prouidens euites iihi que sunt peTTiiciosa ; 
Quere tibi medicos caro si tua sit scabiosa. 
Auribz/^ int^rdum sit musica deliciosa ; 



» MS. more. » > MS. medicawma, * Famettj speach- Cooper. 



THE WAY OF DINING. ^5 

Vomiting is useful in every month, because it purges 

iN'oxious humours ; the mouth relieves the disordered stomach. 

Spnng, autumn, winter, & summer reign in the year : 
272 In spring the air may be warm & moist, 

Ko time is better adapted than that for blood-letting ; 

Then the moderate use of copulation will benefit man. 

Bodily exercise, & the loosening of the belly, & sweat ; 
276 Then let baths purge the body, with medicines. 

Summer afterwards dries such. Let it be known that in that 

Time red choler especially prevails. 

Let damp, cold, dishes be given ; let copulation be avoided. 
280 Baths do no good ; let bloodlettings be rare : 

And let useful rest be (practised), with moderation of drinking. 

In harvest time let cold things be joined with the dry ; 

Let that which nourishes black choler be avoided by every one, 
284 And let the bodily motion and use of Venus be greater 

Than it may be in summer; medicated baths profit (you). 

(When) winter grows moist, grows cold, let us be strict (I) in 
(our) food. 

In winter time let your food be delicious (= dainty) ; 
288 Let there be no purging of the belly in it, nor bloodletting. 

Moderate copulation itself is advantageous, let her [Venus] be 
friendly to the couch. 

The change of season renders not a few sick. 

It is beneficial to preserve the proper heat of nature ; 
292 Damp things can not hurt men's strength 

While nature is able to ei\joy its own heat. 

Let joyous songs very often gladden your spirit. 

Cultivate pleasant words, abandon litigious ones. 
296 Let a very showy newness of garment be to thee often ; 

Take dishes which have a flavour, & cups unadulterated. 

Beware of indulging thy throat ; despise luxurious things ; 

Study to live scrupulously ; beware of vicious things ; 
300 Prudently avoid things which are hurtful to thee. 

Seek doctors for thyself if thy flesh be scabby. 

To your ears now & then let delicious music be (given) ; 



56 MODUS CEXANDL 

Prosp^ra qnere tihi ; sis fidiis; speme dolosa ; 
Aroid envy, 304 Inuidiam fugias ; te nesciat iia morosa ; 

Cum te sanc^a loca teneant, cole leligiosa. 
•hua evil dc«]fl, Famina ' sordida sint, neqti^ toipia gesta, perosa ; 

Lucida sint tua facta per omnia, non tenebrosa : 

and you 11 Hv« ^ ' 

long ud happy. 308 Temporn sic leta longeuus ernes spactosa. 



' Famenf speach. Cooper. 



The interesting Latin poem on Diet, on Diseases and 
their Cures, Ac., in Sloane MS. 1986, gives the follow- 
ing as good flesh, fowl, and fish, foL 60, or p. 113 : 

^ Cames bone. 

^ Camem porcinam tibi non nego, nee pecorinain, 
Kec simT^l agninam, contempnas atqua bouinai/t, 
lungittir alauda, sunt volatilia sana, 

^ Volatilia sana : 

feldfare 
^ Sunt bona gallina, capo, turdus,8tumt»,columba, 
quayle merlyn a bontyng, aluw betwro 

Qiiiscula vel merula, fasianzM & ortigometra, 
fynch lark wagsterk cobart 
i. Perdix, frigellus, parex, tremulus, Amarellus, 
Iungit7«r alauda, sunt volatilia sana. 

^ Pisces sani : 

^ Si pisces molles sunt, magno cor^x?re toUes ; 
Si fuerint duri, parui sunt plus valituri ; 
pyke p^rche roche pieces recentes 
Lucius & perca, saxacilus, abbita, truta, 
homebec plays scharplyng gogyit ruif 

Comis, plagma, cum pe/*ca, gobio, barba. 



THE WAY OF DINING. 57 

Seek good fortune for thyself; be faithful; despise deceitful 
things; 
304 Flee from envy ; let morose anger not know thee. 

When holy places contain thee, cultivate religious thoughts. 
Let not thy words be loose, nor thy deeds shameful, (&) 

detested ; 
Let thy acts be shining through all things, not dark ; 
308 Thus, longlived, thou shalt purchase long & joyful years. 



The first stanza of the poem, p. Ill, or foL 59 of tha 
Sloane MS. 1986, may be compared with the first and 
second of the Dietarium on p. 55 of this volume, and is 

Anglorwwi regi scripsit scola tota salemi : 
" Si vis incolumeTW, si vis te reddere 

Curas linque graues, irasci crede pro- 
phanum, 
Parce mero, cenato parum non sit iihi vanum, 
Surgere post epulas, sompnum fuge m^ndianum; 
Non mictum retine, ventre w nee coge, nee anum. 
Si tibi deficiant medici, medici tibi fiant 
Hec tria, mens leta, labor, & moderata dieta. 



58 



NOTES TO PART II. 



p. 3, 1. 3, 4; p. 16, l. 3, 4. Roignes, ' Rongn^ Vsied, clipped (cp. p. 8, 1. 
5). Rongne ; f. Scurfe, scabbinesse, the mange.' Cot. 

p. 4, 1. 35 ; p. 12, 1. 100 ; p. 17, 1. 25. JBaveuse, ' Baveux : m. euse : f. 
Froathie, foamie, foaming. Plus baveux qt^un pot a moustarde. We say, 
foaming at the mouth like a boare. Cot. 

p. 13, 1. 121 ; &c. Pance. * Pance : f. The paunch, maw, bellie. De la 
patice vient la danse : Fro. From the paunch comes your daunce ; the bellie 
glutted sets the legs agog.' Cot. 

p. 13, 1. 123 ; p. 18, 1. 46. Rupter. * Router to belche, or breake wind 
vpwards.' Cot. 

p. 14, 1. 129. Morveux. " II faut laisser son enfant morveux plutost que 
luy arracher le nez : Pro. Better a snottie child than a noselesse." 1611, Cot- 
grave, w. Enfant. 

p- 14, note ^ M. de Monmerqu^ would no doubt have excepted the Carvers, 
if he had thought of them, as they used their left hands in carving as forks 
to steady the meat, &c., and (I suppose) to hand the slices cut to their Lords. 

p. 21, 1. 48. Grouing de pore : Compare the proverb in Ray, where a 
Camel's back is substituted for the Ass's, and an Ass's ears for the Cow's : 
*' To travel safely through the world, a roan must have a falcon's eye, an ass's 
cars, an ape's face, a merchant's words, a camel's back, a ho^s mouth, and a 
hart's legs." Bohn^s Handbook of Proverbs^ p. 196. 

p. 21, 1. 46-8. Dos d*a9ne, oreilles de vaeke, Cotgrave makes it " Oreille 
d*asne. Pro. The part, or dutie of a seruant ; to heare all his angrie master 
sayes without replying ; from the nature and custome of an Asse, that (what- 
soever noise is made about him) only claps downe his eares, and followes on 
his way." For a dos, oUf en dos ffasne, he gives only " Rldgill-backed; bowed, 
boughtie, or bowing ; highest in the middle ;" and for " Grouing de Pore, 
The head, or vpper part of the shoulder-blade, also the hearbe Dandelion, 
Priests Crowne, Pissabed." 

In The doctrynall of good seruauntes, printed by John Butler, and 
reprinted by Dt Rimbault for the Percy Society in 1842, in Ancient 
Poetical Tracts of the Sixteenth Century, the servant's three qualifications are 
given thus, at p. 9 : 

Yf that thou wylte thy mayster please. 
Thou must haue these thre prepryetees 

For to lyue at thyne hertes ease, 
Auoydynge many of aduersytees : 

A hartes feete, with eeres of an asse ; 
An hogges snowte to, must thou haue ; 



NOTES TO PART II. 59 

So majst thou please in euery case 
Thy mayster, yf thou the thus behaue. 

By ' an asse eeres/ this is mente. 

That thou must harken hym a-boute, 
And yf that he be not content, 

Saye nought, but se thou hym doute. 

By * the hogges snowte ' vnderstonden is. 

What mete soeuer to the is brought. 
Though it be somwhat a-mys, 

Holde thy peas and grutche nought. 

As to regarde of ' the fete of an harte/ 
They sholde euer theyr mayster socoure ; 

Payne the for hym, though that thou smerte, 
To renne and go at euery houre ; 

Nyght nor day spare no laboure 

Hader than he shold haue domage ; 
Helpe hym in welth, and in doloure 

Yi ony wolde do hym outrage. 

The Doetrynall resembles in many points the Erench Regime pour Tons 
Sertiteurs at p. 20-5, Pt. II., above. 

p. 28, 1. 35 ; p. 32, L 35. Sufflare may mean only ' blow on.' Compare 
" Ne blow not on >y drynke ne mete." Boke of Curiasye, Pt. 1, p. 302, 1. 
Ill ; ''Blow ne^er yn thi mete nor yn \>i drynk," ib. p. 20, 1. 68. 

p. 42, 1. 120, piperatis ; p. 44, 1. 126, 128, 135, piperata. The Forme of 
Cury, at p. 64 gives the following recipe for Pevorat for Veel & Venysoli. 
Take Brede & fry it in grece . drawe it up with broth and vyneg«r ; take 
]>erio powdotfr of pep^ & salt, and sette it on the fyre . boile it, and messe it 
forth. 

p. 44, 1. 126, &c. Piperata. Compare ' Spiced breade, panU piperatM* 
Withals. 

p. 48, 1. 178. Siliffo. Under Fins Wheat, or Winter-wheai, p. 551, The 
Country Farme has " There is a kind of small Come that is verie white, which 
the Latines call Siligo, whereof is made Wliite-bread,''balled therefore of the 
Latines Silignetis. The French cannot as yet fit it with a name. . . It is that 
kind of Wheat which amongst the English is called Flaxen-wheat, being as 
white or whiter than the finest Flax: it is of all sorts of Wheat the hardest. 



INDEX. 



To saye the repetition of p. and /. for page and line^ I haye adopted Mr Morris's 
plan, in his Chancer Glossary, of putting a / between the nombers of the page and 
line, and haye left ' Part 1/ to be understood before those references to which no 
Roman numeral is prefixed, so that 5/115 stands for Part I. page 5, line 115. 
Where no line is named, then p, for page is prefixed. II. stands for Part II. The 
French references are to Cotgraye, except where otherwise specified. The Index, 
though long, does not pretend to completeness. The explanations of words given 
in the notes to the text are not repeated here. 



Abbots of Westminster & Tintem 
not to sit together, 192/1141-4. 

Abbot with a mitre, 186/1013, 
188/1051 ; without one,L 1015 ; 
188/1059. 

A B C of Aristotle, p. 11, p. 9. 

A bofe, 329/9, above. 

Abrayde, 28/52, upbraid. 

Abremon, a fish, p. 229. 

A-brode, 178/906, spread open. 

Abstinence, 124/10^ 267/6. 

Abylle, 18/44, fit, convenient, 
beseeming ; L. fiabilis, suitable, 
tit. 

Accounts, yearly, taken to tbe 
Auditor, 318/590. 

Achatis, 317/555, purchases. Fr. 
achetf a bargaine, or purchase. 
Cotgrave. 

Adaunten, 39/72, lessen, destroy; 
Fr. dompter, donter; L. domare, 
to tame. 



Addes, 267/11, adze. 

Aduertence, p. 28, attention, re- 
spect, reverence. 

Advocate's servants, II. 23/101. 

AflTeccion, 168/763, disposition. 

After-dinner nap, 181/947-54, to 
be taken standing against a 
cupboard, p. 244. 

Ages of man, the four, p. 169, p. 
220. 

Ahuna, a monster of the sea, p. 
230. 

Aknowe, 46/191, acknowledged, 
confessed. 

Alay, 132/232, temper. 

Alaye, p. 265, carve. 

Aldermen, the old, rank above the 
young, 193/1157. 

Ale; is to be 6 days old, 128/178; 
p. 208 ; 268/19. Fr. Gutale 
ou Guttale, Ale, good Ale. Cot 

Ale or wine, the sauce for capons, 



INDEX. 



61 



142/411 ; in fish sauce, II. 44/ 
133, 146 ; effect of, 11. 48/200 ; 
served, II. 46/157. 

Algate, 142/400, always. 

Aliene, 191/1109, foreigners. 

AUe, p. 329, No. ix. hall. 

AUhallows Day, fires in hall begin 
on, 311/393. 

Allhallowsday, 327/837. 

Alloft, 185/996, ahove, over the 
vessel of herbs. 

Almandes, 121/74, ahnonds. 

Almond, 160/625, a whelk's oper- 
culum. 

Almonds, good against sour food, 
124/102 ; eat it with raw fruit, 
267/1. 

Almond, iardyne, cream of, 168/ 
744 ; cream and milk of, 151/ 
620; cream of, 165/705; 172/ 
825 ; 271/8 ; p. 281, last line. 

Almoner, his duties, 323/729 ; to 
remove a towel, 326/814. 

Alms to be given to the poor, p. 
329, No. viii. 

Alms-dish, 139/346 ; 322/687 ; 
323/730 ; loaf for, 324/731 ; 
it has the leavings in the lord's 
cup, 325/787, and a piece of 
everything he is served with, 326 
/799. See John Fitz Roberts's 
account for altering and orna- 
menting an almsdish for Hen. 
VL, that belonged to the Duk 
cTExcestrey in Rymer X. 388, 
col. 1. 

Aloes epatick, 251/12 ; Fr. Jtepa- 
tique, Liuer-helping ; comfort- 
ing a whole, or curing adiseased, 
liuer. Cot. 

Als, 319/599, also. 

Altar, minister at the high, with 
both hands, 304/167. 



Alycaunt, p. 202, p. 205, a wine. 

Amber, 257/3 ; adj, 165/699. 

Amberdegrece, 248/9, a scent. 

Amiable, be, IL 12/94. 

Angel and 3 Shepherds, device of, 
165/702. 

Anger, avoid, 348/764 ; II. 56/ 
304. 

Angry, don't be, II. 34/16. 

Anhonest, 302/96, unmannerly, 
improper; 302/124, unpolite. 

Annaunciande, 32 3/705, announc- 
ing, who announces guests 1 

Anneys, p. 53 ; Fr. Ayiis; m. The 
hearbe Anise ; also, the seed 
thereof. Aniseed. Cot. 

Answer sensibly, 3/71. 

Answer, servants mustn't, 328/ 
13. 

Ape tied with a clog, 302/108. 

Appaire, 52/142, worsen, become 
worse. 

Apparel, rules for, 296/169, &c. 

Apple fritter, 149/502, Ac. 

Apple, a raw, cures indigestion, 
267/6 ; and the fumes of drink, 
124/105. 

Apples, 168/757; 171/813; II. 
46/158; 266/19. " The dy veil 
choke hym, he hath eaten all 
the appels alone." Palsgrave, 
p. 484, coL' 2. 

Apples and pears roasted, 280/ 1 7, 
&c. 

Apprentise of lawe, rank of, 189 / 
1070. 

Apprentices, thievish, hanging 
good for, p. 241. 

Apys mow, 301/59 ; apes grimace. 

Aquarius J p. 321, the Ewerer or 
Water-bearer. 

Aquetons, 319/597, acquittance. 



62 



INDEX. 



At, 323/710, before. 

Archbishop, 188/2047. 

Archbishop ranks with a prince, 
186/1010 ; is to dine alone, 
285/4. 

Archdeacon, rank of, 186/1016; 
188/1060. 

Areche, 135/290, retch 1 

Areise, 159/609, tear off? 

Arere, 142/407, cut. 

Areyse, 143/418, 425 ; 144/429, 
&c. ; tear or cut off. 

Aristotle's ii i? C, p. 11, p. 9. 

Arm, don't claw it, 309/329. 

Armes, servauntes of, 270/28, 1 in 
livery, or men-^t-arms. 

Artificers, rich; rank of, 187/ 
1037. 

Asche, 161/643, ask. 

Ashore, 121/71, slantwise, aslope; 
136/299, astraddle. 

Asise, 176/879, way, manner. 

Aslake, 50/68, lessen, become poor 
and weak. 

Aslout, 155/560 ; aslant. 

Aspidochelon, agreatwhale-fisshe, 
p. 230. 

Assafoetida, II. 42/111. 

Assaying bread, by the pant^r, 
322/691 ; water, 323/702; 
meat, by the sewer, 324/764. 
See Credence, and Tasting. 

Asseles, 318/566, sets the lord's 
seal to. 

Ass's back ; a servant should have 
one, 11. 21/46, 49. 

Astato, 307/276 ; rank. 

At, 7/182, with; 306/242, that. 

Aj>er, 322/689, either, each. 

Attend at school, 291/21. 

Attirling, 38/41, shrew; A.S. 
Attor, Ater, poison. 



Atwytynge, 134/274, twitting 
blaming others. 

Audibly, speak, 347/687. 

Auditor, the lord's, all officers to 
account to, once a year, 318/ 
587-94. 

Aunterose, p. 11, L A, venture- 
some. 

Aurata (a fish), p. 230. 

Autumn, the device o^ 169/766 ; 
p. 170. 

Ave, 164/692. 

Ave-Maria, 303/147. 

Aveyner, his duties, p. 319. 

Avise, 151/525, opinion, learning. 

A-voyde, 23/131, alter to *a 
voyder' (a basket or vessel to 
put leavings and trenchers in). 

Awoydes, 326/821, remove3,^uta 
off. 

Ayselle, 158/596, a kind of vine- 
gar. 

Baase (the fish), 174/842. See 
!Base. 

Babulle, 117/12. Au fol la 
marotte. Prov. "We say also. 
Glue the foole his bable; or 
what's a foole without a bable ? 
Cotgrave, under /o/. 

Back ; turn it on no one, 4/90 ; 
not on him you give a cup to, 
302/121. 

Backbite no man, 23/99. 

Backbiting, stop ; II. 21/36. 

Bacon and peas, 170/797. 

Bailiffs of a city, rank of, 187/ 
1033. 

Bailiffs of farms, <&c., to be talked 
to pleasantly, p. 331, No. xvi. 

Baked herrings with sugar, 280 / 7. 

Bakemete, 170/802, meat-pie. 



INDEX. 



6a 



Bake metes, 146/476-7, game pies, 
&c. ; ? sweet pies, 170/809; 
how to carve, 273/19 ; liow 
assayed, 325/771-6. 

Baker, gets money from the 
treasurer, 318/582 ; his duties, 
320/623-28. 

Bakes, 301/60, as hokes^ bulges, 
stuffs. 

Balena, a whale or mermaid, pp. 
231, 239, 235, last line. 

Banker, 179/924, cloth to cover 
a bench. 

Barbe, p. 265, cut up. 

Barley, its effect ; II. 48/177. 

Barme, 177/891, bosom. 

Barnard's blowe, p. 242, a secret 
. blow by a highwayman. 

Baron, 186/1013, 188/1051 ; of 
the Exchequer, 186/1014 ; 188 
/1061. 

Baron of the Exchequer, appeal 
lies to, from an Auditor, 318/ 
694. 

Base, the fish, 167/735; 280/13; 
281/6. 

Basins to be clean ; II. 34/24. 

Bason, 179/926, washing basin. 

Basshe, 161/645, be abashed, 
ashamed. 

Bastard, 125/119; 205/7; 267/ 
20 ; a sweet wine. 

Bate, 304/188, quarrelling. 

Bath, how to make one, p. 182-3 ; 
a medicated one, p. 183-5. 

Baths to be warm ; 11. 52/266 ; 
II. 54/276. 

Bayle, 318/576, bailiff. 

Beans, II. 46/155 ; effect of, II. 
48/182. 

Bearer of meat to stand or kneel 
as the sewer docs, 325/777. 

Bear's flesh, 11. 42/118. 



Beastlynes, 344/460 ; nasty prac- 
tise, t. i., gnawing bones. 

Beaver, considered as a fish, 153 / 
547. " The beuer, whose 
hinder feet and taile onlie are 
supposed to be fish. Certes 
the taile of this beast is like 
vnto a thin whetstone, as the 
bodie vnto a monsterous rat. . 
It is also reported that their 
said tailes are a delicate fish." 
Harrison, Desc Brit., L 225, 
coL 2. 

Beckoning, don't use it, 306/249. 

Bed, how to undress a lord for, p. 
181-2. 

Bed and Bedroom, how to air and 
prepare, 179/919-30. 

Bed, offer your bed-fellow his 
choice of place in, 397/293. 

Bed, prayer on going to, 352 / 
987-8. 

Bedchamber, how to prepare your 
master's, p. 69-70. 

Bedchamber door, lights stuck 
on, 315/509. 

Bedes, for church service, 179/ 
918. 

Bedrooms, don't sleep in ratty 
ones, or those deprived of sun, 
p. 248. 

Beds of straw, Ac., to be 9 ft. long 
and 7 fl. broad, 313/436-7. 

Beedered, 37/19, bedridden, "}» 
bedrede." E. E. Poems, 1862, 
134/57. 

Beef, 150/517 ; 164/688 ; p. 221 ; 
powdered, p. 218, note to L 
694 ; II. 50/209; stewed, 170/ 
798 ; how to carve, 141/393. 
" Touchyng the be/e : 1 do esty- 
mate him of nature melanco- 
lyke, and engendre and produce 
grosse blode well norisshyng 
folkes robustes and of stronge 



64 



INDEX. 



complexion, whiche occupy 
them in great busynesse and 
payne." — Du Gue£% Introdnc- 
toriey p. 1071. 

Behight, 1^8/605, direct. 

Behoyeable, 170/804, necessary. 

Belch not, 294/113; II. 4/32; 
11. 7/35. 

Belch or break wind, don't ; 11. 
18/46 ; 11. 26/20. 

Believe fair words, don't, 305/ 
205. 

Benedidte, IL 3/7 ; IL 9/20, 
grace before meat. 

Bengwine, p. 250 ; Fr. Benjoin, 
the aromaticall gumme called 
Bei\jamin or Benzoin. Cot 

Benym, 140/368, deprive. 

Be-sene, 137/318, become, suit. 

Bete, 179/930, feed, nourish. 

Bete, 183/990, remedy, cure, 

Betowre 153/541, the bittern, 
q. V. ; 165/696 ; how to carve, 
143/421 ; p. 276. 

Better, give place to your, 4/89. 

Bilgres, 186/994; bugloss? p. 226. 

Birds, how to carve, pp. 141-4, 
146-7, 275-8 ; fat ones to be 
served up, IL 36/50 ; to be 
served with their feet, neck, 
head, and wings, II. 46/149. 

Bird's flesh, II. 50/216-18. 

Birth to be looked to first, 109/ 
1105. 

Bishop, rank of, 186/1012. 

Bisketes, 343/389, biscuits. 

Bite not thy bread, 300/49. 

Bithe, 163/678,' are. 

Biting your lips is bad, 294/89. 

Bitten food not to be put back in 
the dish, IL 26/11. 

Bittern, to unjoint or carve, p. 



276 ; 279/1. See Betowre. 

Blaknes, 29, 28/49, black dirt. 

Blamanger and Blanchmanger, p. 
217, bottom. iSiea Blanger man- 
gere and Blaunche manger. 

Blandrelles, 271/10, white apples. 
See Blaundrelles. 

Blanger mangere, 165/693. 

Blanked, 283/23. See Blanket 

Blanket, 180/935. Fr. Manehei. 
A blanket for a bed; also, 
white wooUen cloth. Cot^ Is 
to be kept in the privy. 

Blasting, 136/304 ; cp. Fr. Fetar- 
rade: f. Gunshot of farting. 
Cotgrave. 

Blaunche manger, 271/3. 

Blaunche powder, 122/80, note; 
p. 201, p. 126, note 3; 266/ 
26. 

Blaunderelle, 166/714; Blawn- 
derelles, 122/79 ; p. 201, white 
apples. 

Blaynshe powder, p. 126, note 3. 

Blow and puff not, 136/303. 

Blow not like a broken-winded 
horse, 292/53. 

Blow, don't, on your food to cool 
it, 302/111; IL 28/35. 

Blood-letting, the good of, IL 46/ 

162; best in spring, IL 54/273. 

Blood Royal, Babees of. The 
Baheea Book^ addressed to, 1/ 
15. 

Blood Royal ranks above property, 
190/1094; 285/16. 

Blush or change colour, don't, 
309/337. 

Blysse, 17/12, 23, make the sign 
of the cross on or over. 

Blythe, 300/47, joy 1 = (in) faith. 

Boar pasty, 147 / 489. 



INDEX. 



65 



Boars, 11. 36/48 ; 11. 42/117 ; II. 
50/214. 

Boards of the privy to be covered 
with green cloth, 179/932. 

Body to be kept upright, 347/676. 

Bof, 324/760, ?not ''homf, an 
ox, a beefe," Cot. ; but a-hof 
(dishes), above, up. 

Boke, the, 307/261. 

Bold, don't be too, p. 9, p. 11, L 
B; 88/217. 

Bolde, 314/454, finely? 

Bole Annoniake, p. 250. Fr. 
ArmoniaCy a gumme spring 
from the Cyrenian Ferula or 
FenndJrgiant. 

Bole, p. 53, boil. 

Bolkynge, 135/298, belching. A.S. 
healciariy to belch ; to bolke 
belche, roiider, Palsg. Don't 
belch, 77/229. 

Bombace, p. 255, cotton; cp. 
bombast. 

Boner, 305/191. Fr. honaire, 
gentle, courteous, affable. Cot 

Bones not ta be thrown on the 
floor, 20/79; 79/313; to be 
put into voyders, 79/293 ; a42/ 
358. 

Bonet, 283/29, nightcap. 

Bonour, 41/103. Fr. bonnaire, 
gentle, courteous, affable, mild. 
Cot. 

Book, stick to it well, 339/168. 

Boorde, p. 11, 1. B, joke, play. 
" To bourde or iape with one 
in sporte, trufflery border, 
iouncher.^* Palsgrave. 

Boorde, bourde, p. 9, p. 11, L B; 
34/13; 75/164; Fr. bourde, 
to toy, trifle, dally; bourd or 
least with. Cot. Do it with 
your equals, 34/13. 



I Borbotha, a slippery fish, p. 231. 
Borclothe, 146/468, tablecloth. 

Bordclothe, 120/62, table-cloth, 
*' The table clothes and towelles 
shoulde be chaunged twyes 
every weeke at the leste ; more 
if neede require." H.Ord.p,85. 

Borde, 300/31, table. 

Borde, Andrew, extracts from, pp. 
205, 207, &c. ; on Sleep, Rising, 
and Dress, p. 244-8, 

Border, p. 265, carve. 

Borel, 39 / 69. O. Fr. borel or buret, 
Cotgr&ye^B* bureau m. Athicke 
and course cloth, of a browne 
russet, or darke mingled, colour. 
" Borrel, an Atire or Dress fqr 
the head.*' Philipps. 

Borrow not, 45/181. 

Borrowers, & no payers, 99/605 ; 
100/649. 

Botery, 128/176-7. 

Botre, 315/489, buttery. 

Bou^t, 129/188, 189 n, 191^fold; 
268/27,29; 269/17; 'Malferu, 
A malander in the baught of a 
horse's knee.* Cot. 

Bow <fc don't burst, 34/16. 

Baw when you answer, 4/83 ; to 
your better, 34/12- 

Boxyng, p. 240, smacking the 
face. 

Boys to walk two and two from 
school, not hooping and halloa- 
ing, 340/238-264 ; don't play 
with them, 35/25. 

Boystous, 8/195, rude; Boystows, 
rudis. Prompt. 

Boystousnesse, 7/182; RudUas. 
Prompt. 

Brable (squabble) not with youp 
neighbour, 92/357. 

Brade, 321/666, broad. 



E 



66 



INDEX. 



Brag, don't, 60/123. 

Bragot, 171/817; p. 223. 

Braide, 51/111, stroke. 

Brandrels, 266 / 24, blaundrels, 
white apples. 

Braundische, 39/61, flourish or 
jerk about. Fr. brandir, to 
brandish. Cot. 

Brawn of boar, 164/686 ; 170/796. 

Brawn of a capon, 277/27. 

Brawn, how to carve, 140/378; 
pp. 210, 272. 

Brayd, at a, 131/226, sharply, 
quickly. 

Brayde, 129/188, instant, same 
time. 

Brayde, 41/117, a quick motion, 
our * take a turn at it, have a 
go-in at it ;* 127/146, start, slip. 

Brayde, at a, 322/678, quickly. 

Bread to be cut, not broken, 6/ 
141 ; 18/24; at dinner to be 
cut in two, 300/35 ; eat light, 
54/11. 

Bread, how to chop, p. 120 ; how 
assayed, 322/691-2. 

Bread not fermented, II. 48/179. 

Bread and cheese, 171/815. 

Bread and wine, take before other 
food, II. 3/12 ; II. 17/13. 

Break a dish (carve it), 67/3 from 
foot. 

Break your bread, 300/51. 

Break not wind, 136/304. 

Bream, 167/736 ; 174/841 ; pp 
224, 231. 

Bream, sea-, 156/578; 165/698; 
168/746; 174/848. 

Breast and hands, don't stain 'em 
at meals, II. 40/99. 

Breath, as it may smell, keep your 
mouth shut, 293/69 ; 79/309. 



Breche (Idrawers), clean, 17 6/871. 

Brede, 129/192, breadth. 

Breke, 137/315 ; p. 265, carve 
venison. 

Breke a cony, 145/448. 

Bresewort, 184/993. "In the 
curious treatise of the virtues 
of herbs, Eoyal MS. 18 A. vi., 
fol. 72 b, is mentioned ' bryse- 
warty or bon-wort, or daysye, 
consolida minora good to breke 
bocches.*" Way, Promptorium, 
p. 52, note *. 

Brest, 135/288, ? for fist. 

Bret, Brett, a fish, 157/583 ; 167 
/735; 175/852. Yt. Limavdey 
f. A Burt or Bret-Mh Cot. 

Breue, 312/413, book, score-up. 

Breuet, 316/536, briefed (with 
green wax). 

Breve, 317/553, set down in writ- 
ing, keep accounts of. 

Brewe, 152/540, a bird ; 165/706 ; 
271/8 ; how to carve, 143/422; 
to untache or carve, p. 276. 

Bridelid, 29/33, ?a wrong read- 
ing; or, with food in one's 
mouth; Fr. boire sa bride, A 
horse to draw vp his bit into 
his mouth with his tongue. 
Cot. 

Broach a pipe of wine, how to, p. 
266. 

Broche % 275/6. 

Broiled herrings, 168/748. 

Broke-lempk, 185/994 ; p. 184, 
note. 

Broken, 296/158, with hernia?, 
E. Engl, bursten. 

Broken meat or food for the poor, 
324/739. 

Brothellis, 18/38, low rude peo- 
ple. Fr. bordeaUy a brothell 



INDEX. 



67 



or bawdie house ; hordelier^ a 
wencher, haunter of baudie- 
houses. Cotgrave. Adulterous 
friars are called brothels in 
Piers Plowman's Crede, L 1540, 
V. 2, p. 496, ed. Wright. 

BroJ^els, 35/25, a worthless per- 
son, Arth. and Merlin, &c., in 
Halliwell ; a blackguard, Towne- 
ley Mysteries, p. 142, " stynt, 
brodelsy youre dyn." 

Browers, 32 1/663 ; brower must be 
a napkin or doyley, " Can it be 
a bib put on when taking broo 
or broth in, against the spilling 
of what is supped up? (Or 
rather, wiping the fingers from 
the broo, sauce, or gravy, that 
men dipped their bits of meat 
into.) Halliwell curiously ex- 
plains broo, top of anything. 
" Tak a knyf & shere it smal, 
the rute and alle, So sethe it in 
water ; take the broo of that, 
and late it go thorow a clowte " 
— evidently the juice. It. 
broda, broth, swill for swine, 
dirt or mire ; brodare^ to cast 
broth upon." — H. Wedgwood. 

Browes, p. 274, last line ; p. 287. 
A.S. briw, es. ; m. Brewis, the 
small pieces of meat in broth ; 
pottage, frumenty, &c., briwan^ 
to brew. Somner. 

Brows, how to use the, 292/29 ; 
295/132. 

Browynge, 301/75, broth, grease. 
See browes. 

Brush your niastisr well, 1 78/9 1 3 ; 
all robes lightly, 180/940-3; 
your cap, 338/78 ; dress, p. 70. 

Brushed (well), breeches, 176/873. 

Brydelynge, 135/288, ?the passage 
seems corrupt. 

Brytte, a fish, 280/12. 



E 



Buche, 147 / 492, in squares. 
Sloane MS. 1315, reads "Cus- 
tarde, enche square checke hit 
with your knyfe." 

Bufife, p. 249, leather made of 
buck's skin. 

Bulchnot, 294/113. 

Bulk, 18/47. A.S. bealeian^ to 
belch. " Bolkyn, rudOy enicto, 
orexo." Prompt. 

Bulke, 145/452, body, trunk ; 
273/16. 

BuLLBTN, Wilyam; on Boxyng 
and Neckeweede, p. 240-3. 

BulteUe clothe, 128/164. 

Bun, 130/211; 131/218. 

Burnish bones with your teeth, 
don't, 77/217. 

Bushel of flour to make 20 loaves, 
320/625-6. 

Business, attend to your own, 19/ 
56. 

Bustard, 144/433; 153/541; p 
213; 165/695; p. 218; 271/4 

Busy, always be, 49/39. 

Butler and Panter's duties, p. 66 
p. 266-7. 

Butler, his duties, 312/423-30 
is the panter's mate, 425. 

Butt or fresh-water flounder, p. 
231. 

Butter, sweet, of Claynos or 
hakeney, 155/559. 

Butter, one of the frmts to be 
eaten before dinner, 162/667-8. 

Butter and fruits to be eaten be* 
fore dinner, 266/22. 

Butter, wholesome first and last, 
123/89 ; 266/31. 

Butter, 123/89-92 ; p. 201 ; 266/ 
20, 22 ; 11. 40/87 ; II. 46/159; 
operation of, IL 50/230 ; butter- 
mUk (1), II. 46/156. 

2 



€8 



INDEX. 



Buttiler, p. 1 1 9, 1. 40- 1 . * Butler, the 
officer in charge of the huttei^y 
or collection of casks ; as Pantler, 
the officer in charge of the pan- 
try.* Wedgwood. 

Button your clothes, 73/78. 

Buying, swear <& lie not in, 21/76. 

Bydene, 120/62, properly. 

Cabages, 151/521; p, 213; 273/ 
29 ; II. 46/160. 

Cakes, light, II. 38/54. 

Calf boiled, on Easter-day, p. 274. 

Call your wife names, don't, 51/ 
98. 

Calves-foot jelly, 150/515. 

Calves-skin garments to be worn 
in summer, p. 255. 

Camamelle, 184/992, chamomile. 

Camelyne sauce, p. 152, note \ 

Camphire, 251/13. 

Campolet wine, 267/20, p. 288. 

Cancer, the creuyce or cray-fish, 
p. 231. 

Canddariua, 326 / 822-3, the 
chandler. . 

Candle, one to each mess at dinner, 
327/837. 

Candlemas-eve, squires* allow- 
ances stop on, 311/394 ; 327/ 
837. *^ AtijourcChuy Febvrier 
demain Chandelier : Prov. 
(For Candlemas day is euer 
the second of Februarie.) " Cot. 

Candles, 150/510. 

Canel, 121/66 ; p, 200, a spout. 

CaneUe, 127/142 ; 126/135; 267/ 
24, 31 ; a spice. 

{ BeeeoMHt f' A Woodcock. Beetuw 
petite^ A Snite or Snipe, f Chevalier^ 
A daintie Water-fowle, as big as a 
Stook-doue, and of tvro lunds, the one 



Canelle-boon, 145/449; 273/14. 
Fr. ClamculeSy f. The kannell 
bones, channell bones, necke- 
bones, craw-bones, extending 
(on each side one) from the bot- 
tom of the throat vnto the top 
of the shoulder. Cot. The merry- 
thought of a bird. The haunch- 
bones below correspond to the 
clavicles or kannell bones above. 

Canne, 17/4; cunne, 16/3, know. 

Cannelles, 266 / 15, channels, 
spouts. 

Canterbury,Bp. of, 189/1077. See 
ArchbicJiop. 

Canterbury, the prior of, 193/ 
1145. 

Cap, take it off before a lord, 1 3/ 
4 ; before your better, 25/1 37 ; 
before your master, 75/151 ; 
when speaking to any man, 338 
/80 ; be free of, 341/274, salute 
every one, 

Capitaius, a fish, p. 232. 

Capon, 164/689 ; 170/801 ; p. 
222; II. 36/46; IL 44/123. 
'* Of all meates the best and 
most utille to the body of 
man is of capons, chyckyna, 
faisantes, partriches, yonge par- 
triches, plouuiers^ pigeons^ 
quailles, suites (6«ca«»e«§), wod- 
cockes, turtell doves, knyghtes 
{cJieucdiersf), stares, sparows, 
or pa^eriauXj finches, uerd' 
iereSy* frionsj gold finches, 
linotes, thrushe, felde fare, and 
all kyndes of small byrdes 
(whereof the names ben without 
nombre) ben metes norisshyng 
and of litell degestion, and tliat 

red, the other blacke. Cot. • VertU 
fiery m. The Gold-hammer, Yellow* 
hammer, Yowlring. Cot. 



IKDEX. 



GO 



engendre good Mode." Da 
Guez^s Inii'oductarie, p. 1071-2. 

Capon, how to carve, 1 42/409 ; 
to sauoe or carve, p. 275. 

Capon, boiled, 170/799 ; verjuice 
its sauce, 152/534. "Capons 
boyled, and chekyns, ben lyke- 
wyse of good nouiysshyng, and 
doth engender good blode, but 
whan they ben rosted, they ben 
somewhat more coUoryke, and 
all maner of meates rosted, the 
tone more the tother lesse." Du 
Guez, p. 1071. 

Capon pie, 147/481. 

Capon, roast, how to carve, 277/ 
21. 

Cappe, 181/964, night-cap. 

Cappe-de-huse, 178/909, Icape 
for the house, Fr. cappe, a 
short cloake, or loose and 
sleeuelesse garment, which hath, 
instead of a Cape, a Capuche 
behind it. Cot. 

Caprik, 126/120 ; p. 207, No. 13, 
a sweet wine. 

Caraway, Careawey, 122/79, cara^ 
way-seeds, (from Kapoy, cumin ; 
Lat. careum ; Ar. harawiya; 
Mahn,) 166/713; 266/25 ; 271/ 
11 ; 343/389. 

Cardinal, rank of a, 186/1008 ; 
188/1046. 

Carding, eschew, 346/599. 

Cariage, p. 31, 30, L 59, act of 
carrying. 

Carowayes, 343/389, caraway-seed 
cakes. 

Carp, 156/578 ; 167/735 ; 174/ 
842; p. 232. > 

Carpentes, 283/9, 18, carpets 



tinder foot ? See carpettes for 
cupbordes, 1. 19. 

Carpets, about a bed, windows^ 
&c., 179/927-8. 

Carry your body up, 295/133. 

Carver, his duties, p. 140-8; p. 
67, assays the wine 1, and 
carves the lord's meat, 325/ 
789-95. See Keruynge. 

Carving of fish, p. 280-1 ; of 
flesh, p. 271. 

Carving-knives, panter to lay two, 
322/673 ; p. 66. 

Cast, 319/607, armful or pitch- 
fork-full. 

Cast of bread, 320/631, 1 arm- 
ful, lot taken up at one heave. 

Cast up thy bed, 338/61 ; 73/76. 

Castles, the Receiver sees to re- 
pairs of, 319/601. 

Castyng, 309/336, ? 

Cat, don't stroke it at meals, 302/ 
107, 11. 28/24, 11. 32/33. 

Cate, 25/143,1 cat {hond, hound). 

Cathedral prior sits above others, 
193/1150. 

Cato quoted, 344/491. 

Cats to be turned out of bed- 
rooms, 182/969 ; p. 224, p. 
225 ; 283/34. 

Caucius, a fish, p. 232. 

Cawdrons, the sauce for swans, 
p. 273, last line. See Chawdon. 

Ceese, 51/96, give seizin or pos- 
session of lands. 

Celery, II. 44/138, 141. 

Cellar, yeomen of the, 137/311. 

Celle, 128/176, ceU. 

Cena Domini^ fires in hall stop 



* And of the carp, that it is a deyntuus 
fysscho, hat there hen hut fewe in Eng- 



londe ; and therefore I wryte the lasae of 
hym. — Jtd, Setfieris Book of St AttmCi, 



70 



INDEX. 



on, 311/398; Shere Thursday 
or Maundy Thursday, day 
before Good Friday. 

Cetus, the greatest whale, p. 232. 

Ceuy, 171/822, chive-sauce. 

Chafer, 314/466, a heater. 

Chaffire, 161/639. " Chafowre 
to make whote a thynge, as 
watur. CcUe/actorium "From^^t, 

Chalcedony to be worn in a ring, 
p. 257. 

Chambur, bason for, 182/971. 

Chamberlain, the duties of one, 
p. 176-85, p. 282-3. 

Chancellor, his duties, 317/563. 

Chandelew, 321/642, chandlery, 
stock of candles. 

Chandler, his bread, 320/628; 
his duties, p. 326-7. 

Change (countenance or temper?) 
don't, 21/92 ; 38/53. 

Change your house often, don't, 
51/116 ; nor servants, 85/120. 

Char, 302/96, turn, triqk. 

Chardequynce, 266/21, chare de 
quynces, 121/75 ; conserve 
of quinces, or quince marma- 
lade. Charequynsea, lOtb. the 
boke, vs — 2t., 10s. a.d. 1468, 
H, Ord, p. 103. Marmalet of 
Quinces. R. Holme, Bk. III., 
p. 80, col. 1. 

Charger, 160/633 ; Chargere, 142/ 
405, a kind of dish. 

Charity, the fruits of, p. 349, cap. x. 

Charlet, 273/28 ; p. 289. 

Chaste, be, 54/13. 

Chat after meals, p. 258. 

Chatter, don't, 4/94 ; 8/186 ; 
37/26; 94/453; TI. 30/18. 

Chaufing-dysshe, 276/2, heating 
dish. 

Chaundeler, 315/492, chandler, 



officer in charge of the candles. 

Chawdon (chawdron, p. 275), the 
sauce for swan, 1 52/535 ; p. 2 1 3. 

Chawdwyn, the sauce for swans, 
164/688. 

Cheeks, don't puff 'em out, 293/ 
65 ; don't stuff yours out like 
an ape's, 301/57. 

Cheer, 38/58, manner, behaviour. 

Cheerful, be, II. 4/43, IL 13/ 
109, II. 28/23, II. 32/39. 

Cheese, hard, 122/78 ; 123/85 ; 
p. 200, p. 201 ; 123/84-8 ; 
124/102 ; 266/24. 

Cheese, 171/816 ; 266/19 ; II. 40/ 
87 ; II. 46/159 ; II.50/225-9. 

Cheese, the best cementfor broken 
pots, p. 201. Ruin cheese, p. 
123, note »; 201/3. 

Cheese, have a clean trencher for, 
7/183. 

Cheese, old, to be cut thin ; fresh, 
thick, II. 40/89-90. 

Cheese, fruit, and biscuits, for 
dessert, 343/388. 

Cheese of fruits, 68/9. 

Cheese, only take a little, 20/76 ; 
II. 6/65 ; II. 19/69. Faurmage 
est bon qtvand il y en a peu : 
Prov. The lesse cheese the 
better ; or, cheese is good when 
a miserable hand giues it. Cot. 

Chekker, 3 18/5 9 4, the Exchequer. 

Chekkid, 141/389 ; 147/492, cut 
into checquers or squares. 

Chekmate, 124/96 ; 98/592; don't 
be, with your master, 84/85. 

Cherlis, 18/34, 48, poor, rude, and 
rough people. 

Cherries, 122/77 ; 162/668 ; 266/ 
23. 

Chet, 315/501, coarse bread ; chet 
loaf to the almsdish, 322/687. 



INDEX. 



71 



Cheven (Cheuene, 280/13), chub, 
167/736, note'; 174/842. Fr. 
Vilairiy the Cheuin or Pollard 
fish (called so because it feedes 
vpon nothing but filth). Cot. 
See Chub. 

Cheve, 140/369, end. 

Chew on both sides of your jaw, 
don%IL 28/36; IL 32/21. 

Chewettes, 275/3 ; p. 287; 279/3. 

Chicken, boiled, 170/799; roast, 
170/808 ; chicken pie, 147/ 
481. 

Chickens, II. 36/46 ; II. 46/ 
155 ; how to carve, 141/397. 

Chide not, 4/102; 92/377. "I 
lyken the to a sowe, for thou 
arte ever chyding at mete." 
Palsgrave, p. 611, col. 2. 

Chief Justices, rank of, 186/ 
1014; 188/1052. 

Chief men to be served first, II. 
36/44. 

Child, the, is like his governor, 
p. 63 ; how to manage chil- 
dren, p. 64-5. 

Childe, or young page, the King's, 
191/1124. 

Children soon get angry, 30, 31/ 
81 ; 32, 33/85 ; give *em an 
apple then, 31/84 ; and a rod 
when they're insolent, 32, 33/ 
89, or rebellious, 46/188. 

Children, to wait on their parents 
at dinner before eating their 
own, 341/297; 343/423; the 
duty of, 353/5. 

Chin, hold it up when you speak, 
13/14 ; keep it clean at dinner, 
23/107. 

Chine, 141/393. YT.Eschinon: 
m. The Clujne, or vpper part 
of the backe betweene the 
shoulders. Eschitie: f. The 



Chynsy backe bone, ridge of the 
backe. 1611, Cotgrave. 

Chip, p. 200 ; 266/4. " I 
chyppe breed. Je chappelle 
du payn . . je descrouste du 
pain . . and je payre du pain. 
Chyppe the breed at ones, for 
our gestes be come." Palsgrave, 
p. 484, col. 1. See " choppe " 
and " chyppere." 

Choke, don't, by drinking with 
your mouth full, 302/98. 

Choppe (loaves), 120/51 ; p. 200. 

Christ, thank him for food, II. 
32/41. 

Chub, p. 167, note '. See Cheuen. 

Church, how to behave in, 345/ 
332 (this is the part that would 
follow at the end of the Booke 
of Demeanor, p. 296) ; 37/25 ; 
74/109-120. 

Church, behave well at, II. 56/ 
305 ; go to, 17/17. 

Chyme of a pipe, 266/18, rim. 

Chymn^, 314/461, fire-place or 
brasier. 

Chyne, 121/70, rim of a cask. 

Chyne, 141/393; 273/15, 16, 
back, loin. See Chine. 

Chyne, p. 265, carve. 

Chynchynge, 267/11, pinching. 
Metaphorically " chynchyn or 
sparyn mekylle, perparco" 
Prompt. 

Chyppere, 266/4, a knife to chip 
bread with. 

Cinnamon and salt as sauce for 
venison, Ac., 153/542-3. 

Cinnamon, eaten with lamprey- 
pie, 160/636; with fish, 174/ 
842,847; 282/11. 

Cinnamon, 267/30. 

Ciryppe, 172/826, syiop. 



72 



IXDEX. 



Civeye (cbive sauce), hares and 
conies in, p. 60 ; for hare and 
mutton, 11. 42/116; 11. 44/ 
147; 171/822. 

Glared wyne, 267/19. 

Clarey, 125/120; p. 207, No. 
14; Clarrey, 267/21. Sp. 
Clarea: f. Clary drinke of 
hony and wine. Some say 
Muscadell, others call it Nectar 
or kingly diinke. 1591, Per- 
civale, ed. Minsheu, 1623. 

Clarke of the crowne and th*es- 
chekere, 186/1019. 

Claryfinynge, 125/124. 

Claw, don't, 4/81 ; 13/18 ; 25/ 
139. 

Claw not your head, &c., 134/ 
279. *^I clawe, as a man or 
beest dothe a thyng softely 
with his nayles. Je groMigne . . 
Clawe my backe, and I wyll 
clawe thy toe." Palsgrave. 

Claynos buttur, 165/599. 

Clean your shoes, 73/77. 

Cleanly, be, 84/77. 

Cleanse your spoon, 301/74. 

Clene, 13/28, fitting, courteous. 

Clerk of the Kitchen, 317/549 ; 
his duties, 317/553-62; gets 
money from the Treasurer, 318/ 
579. 

Clerk's or priest's servant, II. 23/ 
95. 

Clof, 314/462, ? 

Cloke, 178/909, cloak. 

Cloos-howse, 196/1202, lock-up 
place for food. 

Cloth, how to lay the, 129/187, 
&c., 268/23 ; how to take it 
oflf the table, 343/399. 

Cloth, keep it clean, 20/61, 81 ; 
23/123; 28/39; 29/40, 11. 4/ 



25 ; don't wipe your knife on. 
it, 23/122; or your nose, 14/53. 

Clothes, don't wipe your nose on, 
292/48. iSeeAppareL "Graue 
clotnesmake dunces often seeme 
great clarkes." Cot., u. fol. 

Clothing of officers, given out by 
the clerk of the Htchen, 317/ 
561 ; of lord and lady, by the 
chancellor, 317/563. 

Cloven-footed fowls, skin of^ is 
unwholesome, 279/18. 

Clowche, 149/503, belly? Not 
"clowchyn or clowe (clewe), 
glomus^ globus'^ Prompt. 

Clutch at the best bit, don't, 14/ 
29. 

Coat, long, 176/872. 

Cock and hen, p. 221. 

Cock, shooting at; girls not to 
go to, 40/81. 

Cockes, 140/375, cooks. 

Cockscombe, 97/560 ; p. 108, 
note. 

Cod, 174/845; 282/12. 

Cod, how to carve, 156/576 ; 
names of, p. 215. 

Codling, a fish, p. 175, note; 

281/7. 

Codware not to be clawed, 135/ 
286 ; not to be exposed, 136/ 
305. 

Coffyn, cofyn, 146/478; 147/ 
481 ; 212/2, 22, Ac., crust of 
a pie. 

Coin, don't be thrall to your, 
103/764. 

Cold, head and feet to be kept 
from, 54/9, p. 254. 

Cold fritter is not to be eaten^ 
149/502. 

Cdericus, 169/772; p. 170; p. 
220. 



INDEX. 



73 



Colice, 172/824, broth. 

Collector, the Pope's, 186/1023 ; 
188/1063. 

Cologne, the kings of, 166/712. 

Colombyne gynger, 126/131 ; 
Columbyne gyngre, 168/758; 
a kind of ginger. ? what. 

Colour in face, don't change, II. 
30/8. 

Coloure de rose, 125/114. See 
note there; it was a wine, p. 
202, extract from the Four 
Elements. 

Colvering, 242/3, 1 

Comade, p. 60, a liquid mixture 
of cream and eggs ; 212/4, 
sauce of whipped eggs and milk. 

Comb for the hair, 177/885. 

Comb your head often, p. 246 ; 
II. 52/244 ; nothing recre- 
ateth tjie memorie more, p. 
249. 

Comb your head, 17/1 4 ; do it 40 
times every morning, p. 255. 

Comb your lord's head, 181/963; 
283/2, 28. 

Comedies, 150/5 10, quaint dishesi 

Comenjmge, 197/1220, commu- 
nication, teaching. 

Comfit, 166/714 ; p. 220. 

Comfortable to your friends, be, 
99/631. 

Commende, 6/120. Fr. 'i Com- 
mander, to recommend, or to 
commit ouer vnto tbe care of 
another. A Dieu vous com- 
viand. God be with you. Cot 

Commensed, 193/1154, taken a 
degree, 

Commyn, 162/671, communi- 
cate, talk. 

Companions, pray for your, 304/ 
161. 



Compleccion, 168/764, device. 

Compleccyon, 279/11, disposition. 
My complexcyon a-cordyth to 

eny mete. 
But rere sopers j refowse, lest 
j shuld surfett. 
Piers of Fullham, L 197-8. 

Compostes, 121/75, note ; 122/ 
79 ; 266/21 ; 268/19. See 
Eecipe 100, Forme of Cury^ p. 
49. 

Conceit, don't laugh at your own, 
97/553. 

Conceites after dinner, dessert of 
apples, nuts, and cream, 68/5 
from foot. 

Conche or muscle fish, p. 232. 

Concoction, 252/12, digestion. 

Concordable, 170/796, suitable. 

Condel, smale, 327/826, tapers. 

ConJUeory the, to be learnt, 303/ 
154. 

Confites, 121/75 ; p. 201, note to 
1. 82, comfits. 

Confyte, 167/731, a comfit. 

Congaudence, 195/1190, con- 
gratulation, satisfaction. 

Conger, 154/555; 157/583; 167/ 
733 ; p. 233 ; 11. 40/83 ; II. 
44/125. Richard Sheale, the 
minstrel and ballad-writer, says, 

" I can be content, if it be out 

of Lent, 
A piece of beef to take, my 

hunger to aslake. 
Both mutton and veal is good 

for Bichard Sheale ; 
Though I look so grave, I 

were a very knave 
If I would think scorn, either 



evening or mom. 



Being in hunger, of fresh 
salmon or congar. Knight's 
Life of Caxton, p. 48. 



74 



INDEX. 



Conger, salt, 173/833. 

Congettynge, 196/1202, con- 
spiracy, tricks. 

Connynge, 197/1220-2, learning, 
knowledge. 

Contrarotulator, p. 317, the con- 
troller. 

Controller, his work, 317 / 641, 
550 ; sits on the dais in hall, 
299/20. " I feel by William 
Peacock that my nephew is not 
yet verily acquainted in the 
king's house, nor with the 
officers of the king's house he 
is not taken as none of that 
house; for the cooks be not 
charged to serve him, nor the 
sewer to give him no dish, for 
the sewer will not take no men 
no dishes till they be com- 
manded by the controller.** 
Clement Paston, P. Letters, ed. 
1841, V. 1, p. 144 (XV. vol. 
iv. p. 53, orig.). 

Cold of speech, be, 23/98. 

Cony, 150/517; 165/694; 170/ 
807; p. 223. "And conys, 
hares, rabettes (laperaus)^ 
buckes, does, hartes, hyndes, 
robuckes, or lepers, {cheureus 
ou saillanz), holde also all of 
melancoly." Du Guez. 

Cony, how to carve, 145/447 ; 
273/12 ; to unlace or cut up, 
p. 276. 

Cony, with mustard and sugar, 
152/638. 

Conyd, 25/149, learnt. 
Coochele, sea-snails, p.. 232. 

Cook must obey a marshal, 195/ 
1182. 

Cooks are always finding out 
new dishes, and nearly killing 
people, 149/505. 



Coost, 165/705, rank, succession t 
Fr. coste a costey in euen ranke, 
side by side. Cotgrave. 

Cope, 322/689, covering, towel t 

Copious of talk, don't be, 30, 31/ 
74. 

Copulate in spring, II. 54/274, 
more in autumn, ib.^ L 284, 
moderately in winter, 1. 289. 

Corage, 48/13, hearty desire. 

Coral, 257/3. 

Coretz, a fish, p. 233. 

Comys, p. 331, No. xvi. different 
kinds of grain. 

Correction is needful, 92/375. 

Cote, 18/48, cot, cottage. 

Cottell, 282/14, cuttle-fish. 

Cotyn, cotton, to bo kept in the 
privy, 180/935. 

Couche, 268/25. 

Couertoure, 324/753, dish-cover ; 
325/791, cover, or lid of a 
wine-cup. 

Cough not, 134/271. 

Cough not before your lord, 135/ 
297. 

Counturpynt, 314/455, counter- 
pane. 

Countyng, 316/536, reckoning. 

Courses, new fashion of, 1. 
potage, 2. rich dishes, 3. heavy 
ones, IL 40, 76. 

Courteous, be, to God, and kneel 
at prayers, 304/163. 

Courtesy came firom heaven, 16/ 
4; 17/6; all virtues are in- 
cluded in it^ 16/8; 17/10. 

Courtesy and gentleness, delight 
in, 7/180. 

Courts (fines of), 318/577. 

Couth, 23/118, Undy, indeed, 
A.S. cudltce, certainly. 



INDEX. 



to 



Couthe, 302/114, knovm persons, 
friends. 

Coverlet of a bed, 179/923. 

Cow beef, II. 36/45. 

Cowd, 119/34-5, knew. 

Cowche, 129/187, and note, the 
undermost table-cloth. 

Cowheels mixed with jellies, 
150/515. 

Cows' ears, a servant should have, 
II. 21/48 ; IL 22/66, p. 58. 

Coyish, don't be, 94/433. 

Crab, how to carve and dress one, 
158/590-601 ; 281/14. 

Crache, 25/139 ; 26/14 ; 27/ 
14. *Clawyn or cracchyn, 
scratche, Scalpo, scrato, grado.^ 
Cath. in P. PI. ; * Krauwen, 
krabben, kratsen, ofte schrah- 
ben,* Hexham. 

Craftsmen, their duty, 354/12. 

Cram your mouth full, don't, 18/ 
38; 78/271. 

Crane (the bird), 152/539; p. 213. 

Crane, 165/695 ; p. 218, and 
note*, for their fighting pig- 
mies; II. 42/118. 

Crane, how to carve, 144/429 ; 
or dysplaye, p. 276. 

Crane's trump, take care of it, 
144/431 ; 273/4. 

Crawe, 135/288 ; Fr. iabof, the 
craw, crop, or gorge of a bird. 
Cotgrave. 

Crayfish, how it catches oysters, 
p. 231 ; p. 233 ; freshwater, p. 
232. See Creues, &c. 

Cream, cow- and goat-, 123/81 ; 
124/93; p. 201 ; 170/803; 
is bad, 266/27. "The dyvell 
burst him, he hath eaten all 
the creame without me." Pals- 
grave, p. 472, col. 2. 



Credence, 196/11 95-9, tasting 
food against poison. Only done 
for the highest ranks, down to 
an earl. 

Creed, to be learnt by boys, 
303/167. 

Creues (crayfish), how to carve, 
281/20. 

Crevice, freshwater, 174/848. 

Crevis dewe douj, fresh-water 
cray-fish; how to carve, 159/ 
618. 

Crevise, freshwater, 166/707. 

Crevise or cray-fish, how to carve, 
158/602 ; the names of, p. 216. 

Crochettis, 313/446, hooks. 

Cropyns, 140/362, crops, craws, 
of birds. 

Croscrist, 303/144. 

Cross, make the sign of, on rising, 
17/12 ; before eating, IL 9/14 ; 
17/23. 

Croups of birds indigestible, 272 

Cruddes, 124/93, curds. 

Cnimble bread with sweaty 
hands, don't, 76/189. 

Crumbs, don't spit out, 78/283. 

Culpon, p. 265, cut into chunks. 

Cumin, for wild-bird gravy, II. 
42/122. 

Cup, don't ask a friend to take 
it, but give it him yourself, 
302/123; how to hand one, 
p. 67 ; to take one, 79/301. 

Cupboard, 129/193, table or 
stand for cups, &c., to stand 
on ; is in the marshal's charge, 
311/390; to be covered with 
a cloth, p. 66 ; with carpets, 
283/19. 

Cupborde, bread and wine stand 
on (or in), 316/511. 



76 



INDEX. 



Cuppeborde in a bed-room, 179/ 
928. 

Cups to be silver, p. 252. 

Cure, 194/1174, charge. 

Cure, 137/324; 147/492; custom, 
way of doing a thing. 

Cure, 144/435 ; directions. 

Cure, 140/375 ; craft, art, practice. 

Curies, 149/506, dodges, curious 
dishes. 

Curlew, 165/706; 271/8; how 

to carve, 143/421 ; to untache 

or cut up, p. 276. Sir De- 

grevant, 1. 1406, p. 235, has 

ffatt conyngus and newe, 

ffesauntys and corelewe. 

Cursie, 342/328, curtsey. 

Curst (ill-tempered) wife, 86/159. 

Curtains, bed-, 182/968 ; four to 
abed, 313/448. 

Curiasye, tJie Boke of (Sloane 
MS. 1986), p. 227-327. 

Curtesy, 270/9, a bow or salut- 
ation. 

Curtsey, make your, decently, 
296/153. 

Cury, 150/513, dodges, sleights. 

Cushion, to be put on the chair, 
177/882. 

Cuspis, p. 148, note*. 

Custade costable, 170/802, a kind 
of custard. 

Custard, how to carve, 147/492 ; 
p. 211; 271/1; 273/21. 

Cut your meat, don't bite it, 20/ 
63. 

Cut bread when you're told to, 
XL 26/10. 

Cut, 267/22, cute wine. 

Cute, 125/118; p. 203, No. 3, 
a sweet wine. Fr. Vin cuict. 
Wine boyled on the fire to a 



certaine thicknesse, and then 
put into vessells, and reserved 
for sweet sawces. Cot. 

Cute, 126/138, baking. 

Cute, gynger of iij, 127/159. 

Cuttid, 136/305, shortcoated. 

Cuttlefish, p. 288. 

Cyueye (chive or onion sauce), 
hares and conies in, p. 60. 

Dace, 156/575 ; p. 214, bottom, 
174/841 ; Fr. Sophie . . the 
Dace or Dare-fish. Cot 

Dames, honest, resort to for 
marriages, 86/144. 

Damp food not hurtful, II. 54/292. 

Damsons, 122/77; p. 207, last 
note (wrongly headed, L 177) ; 
162/668; 266/23. 

Dangle like a beU, don't, 296/152. 

Dark wines are strong, II. 48/192. 

Dates, 121/74; p. 148, note'; 167 
/731 ; 266/21, 23 ; p. 281, last 
line. 

Dates (]), II. 46/158. 

Dates in confite, 172/825 ; in con- 
fetes,280/l 1 ; capte withmynced 
ginger, 280/19. 

Daughters, a mother's counsel to 
her, p. 36-47. 

Daughters' marriage portions to 
be prepared, 46/196. 

Daungeresnes, 162/659, of great 
difficulty. 

Daw, a, sticks its neck askew, 
135/285. 

Dead, remember the, IL 5/72 ; 
II. 19/81 ; pray God for them ; 
II. p. 15-16. 

Dean, rank of, 186/1016; 188 
/1060. 

Death, where your money and 
wife go to on, 52/126-36. 



INDEX. 



77 



Death comes, fear God, II. 24/ 
146. 

Debt, keep out of, 21/80. 
Defend thyself, 84/71. 

Degree, University; rank of 
clerks that have taken one, 187 
/1 028. 

Degree (of men), the duty of each, 
p. 353-4. 

Delicatis, 166/713; delicacies. 
Delphin, or mennaid, p. 233. 

Demeanor^ Tlie Books ofy p. 289- 
96. 

Demeene, 194/1163; leam lor 
arrange. 

Demurely, walk in the streets, 
26, 27/18. 

Dentiscalpium^ p. 114; Mar- 
tialL Instrumentum exesis 
dentibus eradendis nitidan- 
disque accomodum, ohovTo^ia" 
Tri^f PoUuci o^oyroykvi^oy, 
oiovToyfiviplCf fit autem vel e 
metalio, vel lentisci ligno, vel 
prsBCuspidatis calamis. Nonien- 
elator in Nares. 

Depelled, 258/12, driven out. 

Dere, 163/684, injury. 

Deshe, 299/20, dais. 

Despise no one, IL 4/46. 

Despisers of courtesy are not fit to 
sit at table, 22/99 ; 303/137 ; 
II. 29/37 ; 33/42. 

Devonshire, Rhodes bom in, 71/ 
11. 

De we, 1 5 9/6 1 8, of water. 

Dewgarde, leche, 271/10. 

Dewynge, 167/732, service. 

Deynteithe, 168/752, % inclina- 
tion, desire. 

Deynteithly, 171/814, tooth- 
somelv. 



Deyntethe, adj., 166/723, tooth- 
some, dainty. 

Deyntethe, sb., 316/527, dainty. 

Diaper towel, 268/31. 

Diapery, towelle of, 129/193. 

Diatrion piperion, to be used 
against rheums, p. 253. 

A Diatorie, p. 54-8. 

Dice, don't play at with your 
lord, 306/228. 

Dicing, avoid, 50/60 ; 56/32 ; II. 
21/20. 

Diet, 147/488, food. 

Diet, one for every day, p. 249. 

Difence, 29/61; IFr. defensey a 
reply, answer, argument, or 
allegation vsed, or viged in 
defence. Cot. Fairs defense 
is now to forbid, prohibit 

Dig your thumb into your nose, 
don't, 308/327. 

Digest his stomak, his food, 181/ 
947. 

Digestion, walkinggood for, 54/18. 

Digne, 187/1024, worthy. 

Diligences, 195/1183, duties. 

Dim sight, remedy for, p. 251. ' 

Dine, don't, before you have an 
appetite, 54/17. 

Dinner described, from the laying 
of the cloth, 321/655, to the 
removal of the board and 
trestles, 326/822 ; p. 66-8. 

Dinner of flesh, p. 164-6, p. 216 ; 
offish, p. 166-8; fruits to be 
eaten before, 162/667-8. 

Dinner at noon, what the page is 
to do at, 5/128. 

Dinner, after, how to take leave, 
81/361-7. 

Dinner and supper, the only 
meals allowed, p. 257. 



78 



INDEX. 



Dip your meat in the saltcellar, 
don't, 76/203. See Salt. 

Dipping slices of meat in sauce, 
146/467. 

Dirty clothes forbidden, 296/167. 
Disallow, 145/1181. 

Dise, 124/112, an adze 1 

Dish taken away, don*t ask for it 
again, 7/166; 301/83; II. 4/ 
51 ; not to be noticed, IT. 13/ 
115; 11. 17/36; 11.32/26. 

Dishes, to be clean, &c., II. 36/ 
30. 

Dish-side, spoon not to be laid on, 
301/73; 23/126. 

Dismember, p. 265, carve. 

JDi^pemlu, 317/543 (? eatables* 
&c., not money), disposed of, 
consumed. 

Dispenses, 317/555, payments, 
expenditure. 

DLspiaise no one, 98/581. 

Dissolute laughters, avoid, 26/20. 

Diswere, 313/436, doubt. Hal- 
liwell. " Platt-D. waren is 
to certify, assure ; to prove by 

; witnesses, &c. ; waJiVj true, is, I 
believe, what is certain, sure. 
* Ik mil jou de Waarschup 
darvan hringen; I will bring 
you the tnith of it, will bring 
you certain intelligence of it 
Diswere then would be xmcer- 
tainty." — H. Wedgwood. 

Ditany, II. 44/137. 

Do to others as you would they'd 
do to you, 304/175. 

Doctor of both laws (Canon and 
Civil), utriusqite juris, 187/ 
1024 ; 188/1062. 

Doctor of divinity, rank of, 186/ 
1021; 188/1062. 

Doctors of 12 years' standing, 



rank above those of nine, 193/ 
1153. 

Doctors, the 3 best, 54/4; XL 
34/18. 

Document, 1/6, L. documentum, 
that which teaches, a lesson, 
example » for instruction; Fr. 
document^ precept, instruction, 
admonition. Cot. 

Dog, don't claw yours at dinner, 
301/87. 

Dogs to be turned out of bed- 
rooms, 182/969; p. 225; 283/ 
33 ; p. 69. One reason for turn- 
ing dogs out of the bedroom at 
night is given in Palsgrave's 
" 1 wolde gladly yonder dogge 
were hanged, he never ceas^ 
whowlyng all nyght," p. 784-5. 

Dongerowse, 35/2, scornful, 
squeamish, dainty. 

Donne, 283/23, down. 

Dorray, 1 67/733, dor6e. 

Doree, the fish, 157/582; 280/ 
12. 

Dorsi, 11. 44/140; ?Fr. Ocd: n. 
A Cocke ; also, a Derce, or 
Gold-fish. Cot. 

Dosurs, 311/391, canopies, hang- 
ings: ^Docere of an halle: 
Doraoriumy avleurju^ Prompt. 
Fr. Vn dossier de pavilion. The 
head of a Pauillion, or Canopie ; 
the peece that hangs down at 
the head thereof. Cot. 

Doted daf (confounded ass, stupid 
fool), don't be one, 308/326. 

Doublet, 176/872 ; 177/892 ; 178 
/899; 283/1. 

Douj, 159/618, soft, fresh (water). 

Dowcetes, dowcettes, a dish, 148 
/494; recipe at p. 60; 165/ 
699; 170/809. 

Dowled drink not to be given to 



INDEX. 



any one, 268/22 ; dotcld, dead, 
flat (Yorkshire), Halliwell ; not 
^ dolly d^ sum what hotte, tep^ 
factaa.^ Prompt. 

Dowt, 195/1188, fear. 

Doyle, 135/285, skew. 

Draconites, 257/7, the dragon- 
stone. 

Dragons herbe, p. 250. 

Drapery, 180/946, cloths. 

Draughtes, 141/388, drawn Imes, 
scorings. 

Dread God, 72/53. 

Dress too finely, don't you, 58/ 
49 ; or your children, p. 64. 

Dresser, in the kitchen, 317/557. 
Dressing described, p. 282-3. 
Drink hinders digestion, p. 252. 

Drink, how assayed, 325/785-93 ; 
how to hand, 291/9. 

Drink not behind a man's back, 
20/75; not before sleep, 54/ 
14 ; or between meals, 56/19; 
wipe your mouth first, 23/105 ; 
78/257 ; II. 32/25. 

Drink all in the cup, don't, 307/ 
289. 

Drink all your glassful, 11. 6/62 ; 
11. 13/103; 11. 17/24. 

Drink with full mouth, don't, 23/ 
110; 11. 26/14; 11. 32/31. 

Drink moderately, 30, 31/73 ; II. 

4/53; 11. 11/71; 11. 17/19; 

ale, 29/76. 
Drivel not with your mouth, 135 

/292. 
Drop soup on your breast, don't, 

30, 31/57. 

Dropynge from the eyes, 134/283. 

Drunk, don't get, p. 9, p. 11, 1. 
D; 39/77; 78/275; II. 11/ 
73. 



Drunkelew, 56/30, drunken ; 
*drunkelcw ebriosus. Prompt. 
For the -lewe = 4y ; cp. * deli- 
cat horses that ben holden for 
delyt, that they ben so faire, 
fat, and costlewe. Chaucer. 
Parsones Tale, Poet. Works, 
ed. Morris, iii. 298; costlewe 
funing in here gownes, ib. p. 
296. 

Drunken servants to be turned 
away, 329/1. 

Dry thy mouth before drinking, 

301/81. 
Duchess, 322/680. 

Duck : see Mallard. * The 
ducke maketh a clere voyce, & 
causeth man to lay gladdly in 
the armes & geueth hym the 
sede of nature / & the sewet is 
of it very good to souple all 
maner of paynes in the bodi of 
man." — Noble Lyfe, L. i. back. 

Dugard, leche, 166/708. 

Duke of royal blood, 186/1011 ; 
188/1048. 

Duke to dine alone, 285/4. 
Duke's or noble's servant, the 
duty of one, II. 23/106-120. 

Dumb, don't be, 306/255. 
Dysfygure, p. 265, carve. 
Dysplaye, p. 265, carve. 

Earl, the lowest rank for which 
food was tasted by a servant, 
196/1198. 

Ears, not to be picked, 18/33 ; 

135/289 ; to be kept clean, 

338/99. 
Ease (quiet), live in, 21/82. 
Easter-day feast, p. 274. 
Easter to Whit-sunday, feasts 

and service from, p. 274-5. 



80 



INDEX. 



Eat properly, 14/40 ; not hastily, 
16/19; moderately, 77/237. 

Eat all your share, II. 30/1 7. 

Eat, don't, till your mess is 
brought from the kitchen, 300/ 
43. 

Echeola, the pearl-muscle, p. 233. 

Echynus, p. 234. 

Edwite, 29/28, blame, reproach, 
turt; A.S. edwitan. 

Eel, bad for sick people, II. 50/ 
220. 

Eel, salt, 173/834. 

Eels, bred from slime, p. 230. 

Eels, roasted, 157/588 ; 174/848. 

Eels, names of, p. 215. 

Eels, 166/719; 167/737; 171/ 
820; p. 220; II. 44/127. 

Eemesful,p. 11,LE; A.S. geomes, 
earnestness ; geornfidl, full of 
desire, eager, anxious. 

Egestyon, 246/15, evacuations. 

Egg, how to eatone, 11. 42/105-10. 

Egg, goose's and hen's, II. 52/ 
239-40. 

Egge, 138/335, edge. 

Eggs, 170/803 ; p. 222 ; 11. 40/ 
87; II. 44/146; II. 46/156. 

Egre, 173/837 ; Fr. aigre, eagre, 
sharpe, tart, biting, sower. Cot. 

Egret, 152/539 ; p. 213 ; 165/ 
697, great white heron. 

Egret, how to carve, 143/421 ; 

to breke or carve, p. 276. 
Elbow, don't put on the table, 

II. 7/38; II. 14/128; II. 18/ 

48 ; II. 26/19. 

Elbows, don't lean on, at meals, 
18/45 ; 302/125. 

Elders, be gentle to, 72/27 ; 96/ 
529. 

Elemminaritia^ 323/728-9, the 



Almoner. 

Elenge, p. 11, 1. K 

Elephant, don't you snuffle like 
he does, 293/59. 

Elizabeth, 16/6; 17/8. 

Embrowyng, 6/147, dirtying, soil- 
ing ; Fr. emhroui^ bedurtied, 
soiled, defiled Cot. 

Emperialle, 1 31/231, set out, deck, 
adorn. 

Emperor, after the pope, 186/ 
1006. 

Empty your mouth before speak- 
ing, 14/59; 23/110; 28/32; 
29/32. 

SE^Vp.?9.h 31, stuff out; 

?Fr. emboucheTf to mouth or 
put into the mouth of. 

Enbi«we, 138/331, dirty, soil 

Enbrowide, 29/39 ; Fr. emhroue, 
. . bedurtied, soiled, defiled. 
Cotgrave. 

Enbrowynge, 146/468, soiling, 
dirtying. 

Enclyne, 299/23, bow. 

End of a meal, what to do at the, 
8/190. 

Endoured, 275/3, glazed ; en- 
doured pygyons, 278/15. 

Endure, 151/524, make to last; 
^endurer fatU pour durer:* 
Pro. To dure we must endure. 
Cotgrave. 

Enemies, man's three, 305/219. 

Enforsed, p. 53, stuffed. 

Englandis gise, a flesh feast after, 
151/526. 

Enlased, 142/412, cut up, carved. 

Enourmyd, 1/17, adorned ; O. 
Fr. aomer, L. adoimare ; not 
enorer, honour. 

Enough is a feast, 83/51. 



INDEX. 



81 



Entende, 180/936, 939, attend. 

Entendyng, 162/665, listening 
for orders, attending. 

Enter a lord's place, hoT^ to, 3/ 
68. 

Entremete, 5/109, interfere. 

Envy no one, 82/27 ; 349/795. 

Envy, flee from, 11. 56/304. 

Equal, give way to your, 307/276 ; 
don't play with him, 15/77 ; 
do, 34/13. 

Errands, going, 291/13. 

Esox, a flsh of the Danube, p. 
234. 

Esquyere, J)e body, 186/1016, the 
Esquire of the King's person. 

Est, 309/346, host 

Estate, how to lay or make, with 
a cloth, 129/192; 133/162; 
p. 208. 

Estate, 181/957,rank,189/l 072-3. 

Estates, 188/1053, ranks, persons. 

Euwere, 321/641, water-bringer ; 
L. aquarius, Fr. eautery is a 
gutter, channell, sinke, sewer, 
for the voiding of foule water. 
Cotgrave. 

Evacuate yourself, p. 249. 

Evil company, avoid, 88/244. 

Evil living, the cause of our, p. 
63. 

Evy, 123/91, heavy. 

Ewer, 180/937; 343/413, jug of 
water; water-bearer, 321/641, 
666, &c. 

Ewerer, strains water into the 
basins, 322/695. 

Ewery, 129/192, drinking vessels. 

Eweiy, 268/31, stand or cup- 
board for water-vessels; how 
to dress it, 269/23. 

Ewes flesh, IL 50/208. 



Excess, keep from, 78/277. 

Exercise, moderate, is good, II. 
35/9. 

Exonerate, 246/16, unload, dis- 
burden. 

Eyebright water, 261/2. 

Eyes, don't make 'em water by 
drinking too much, 14/67. 

Eyes, don't wipe em on the 
table-cloth, 302/116 ; wash 
them, p. 250 ; p. 255. 

Eyes, how to use the, 292/33. 

Eyes, not to be cast about, 26, 
27/8; 76/174; 80/329; 347/ 
679 ; IL 30/3. 

Eyroun, p. 60, eggs. 

Facche, 168/699, fetch. 
Face, look in the man's you're 
speiJdngto, 13/16; 21/67. 

Facett, 1/8; Fr. Facet: m. A 
Primmer, or Grammer for a 
young schoUer. Cotgrave. 
Faceet, booke, Facetus (well- 
speaking, polite). Pr. Parv. 

Fair wdrds slake wrath, 38/44 ; 
get grace, 74/105. 

Falconers, 317/564. 

Fall, if any one does, don't laugh 
at him, 306/235. 

Familiar, don't be too, p. 9, F ; 
p. 11 ; p. 106. 

Familiar friends, always admit, 
p. 330, No. XV. 

Fande, 192/1 143, try, experience f 

Fangle, 341/268, toy, thing. 

Farsed, 139/358 ; p. 210, stufied. 

Fast now and then, p. 268. 

Fasts, fish, &c., for, II. 40/82-8. 

Fasts, II. 62/268. 

Father, a good, makes good chil- 
dren, 72/33. 



82 



INDEX. 



Father and mother ; worship and 
serve them, 304/172. 

Fathers and mothers, duty of, 
353/4. 

Fatnes, 28/37 ; 29/39, fat> grease. 

Faucettes, 266/16, taps. 

Fault, don't find, 93/389-98; 
with your food, IL 7/44. 

Fawcetj 121/68; p. 200; 266/ 
16, a tap. Yn tyme therfore 
tye vp your tryacle tappe ; Let 
not to long thy fawset renne. 
Piers of Fullham,L 228-9. Early 
Pop. P., V. 2, p. 10. Stryke 
out the heed of your vesseUes, 
our men be to thrustye to tarye 
tyll their drinke be drawen 
with a favlsed. Palsgrave, p. 
740, col. 1. FT.Giulle.'t The 
quille or faucet of a wine 
vessel! Cot. 

Fawn, how to carve, 144/441. 

Fawn, 165/694, II. 36/49; II. 42 
/1 19. 

Fawn, and ginger sauce, 152/537. 

Fawte, 198/1238, make default 
or mistakes. 

Fayge, fruyter, 271/10; p. 287. 

Featherbed to be beaten, 179/ 
921 ; 283/12. 

Feed elegantly, 7/185. 

Feede onely twice a day, p. 257. 

Feele & seelde, 43/151, many 
times and seldom, every hour 
& Sundays. 

Feet to be kept still, 21/66 ; 26/ 
7; 30, 81/56; 75/147; 78/ 
255. 

Feet and hands together, 347/677. 

Feet and head to be kept from 
cold, 54/9. 

Feet, what birds to be served with 
their, 144/435. 



Feffe, 51/96, enfeoff with lands. 

Fele, 127/155, 157, perceive, 
taste; 140/364, t taste or see; 
139/349, understand. 

Feleyly, 21/94, fellowly, sociable. 

FeUe, 13/21 ; 15/89; Istem, or 
discreet. See Cold. 

Fellow-guests, don*t offend^ IL 
28/26 ; IL 32/40. 

Fellow, don't quarrel with your, 
58/53 ; if he's absent, keep his 
share for him, 77/225. 

Fende, 198/1233, defend. 

Fenel-water, p. 255. 

Fenelle, the brown, 183/991. 

Fennel, IL 44/138, 141. 

Fercularius, 324/749, the Sewer. 

Fere, 166/719, company; in/ere^ 
together. 

Fere, 169/774, companion. 

Fermys, 319/596, rents; Fp. 
fermey a fanne or lease, a thing 
farmed, a toll, rent, mannor or 
demesne in farme. Cot. 

Ferour, 319/612, 615, farrier ; 
Fr. Mareftchalferraid, Cot. 

Few words, use, 21/73 ; 84/89. 

Fieldfares, 279/3. 

Fieldmen, how they fly at their 
food, 7/176. 

Figs, fritters of, p. 53. 

Figs, 266/21; 280/18; IL 46 
/1 58, in Cornwall, raisins are 
called figs ^a thoomping^^y 
pudden ' a big plum pudding. 
Spec, of Cornish Dialecty p. 53. 

Filthy talking, against, p. 351, 
cap. xiL 

Finger, don't point with, 21/69 ; 
don't mark your tale with, 30, 
31/71 ; 75/155 ; don't put it 
in your mouth, 80/334. 



INDEX. 



83 



Fingerulg, avoid it, 306/249. 

Fingers, meat to be eaten with, 
20/56 ; nose not to be blown 
with, 13/19; 134/284; 292/ 
51 ; not to be put in one's 
cup, 134/272; or on the dish, 
18/27 ; keep 'em clean, 23/ 
107 ; wipe 'em on a napkin, 
344/465. 

Fingers, two, & a thumb, to be 
put on a knife, 137/320-4; 138 
/326. 

Fingers and feet, keep still, II. 
30/2 ; and hands, 26/7 ; 27/7. 

Fingers and toes to be kept sKll, 
308/320. 

Fins of fish to be cut oflf, 155/560. 

Fire at meals in winter, p. 258. 

Fire, have a good one, 283/20. 

Fire in bed-room, 56/41 ; p. 69 ; 
p. 244. 

Fire in hall at every meal &om 
Nov. 1 to Feb. 2, 311/393-8. 

Fire to dress by, 177/888. 

Fire to be clear, 176/877. 

Fire-screens for a lord, 314/462. 

First course of fish, p. 280. 

First day (after blood-letting) 
what to do on, n. 46/170-1. 

Fish, a dinner of, three courses, & 
one of fruit, p. 166-9. leune 
chair vieil poiason : Prov. Old 
flesh and young fish (is fit for 
the dish). Cot 

Fish, carving & dressing of, p. 
153-161; p. 214, Ac; p. 280-1; 
how assayed, 325/767-70 ; 
sauces for, p. 172-5; 282/4; 
sewynge or courses of, p. 280 ; 
to be dressed with their skins 
on, II. 40/85. 

Fish, salt, 173/833. 

Fish, names of, from Yarrell, p. 



226-8 ; extracts from Laurens, 
Andrewe on, p. 229-39. 

Fisshe, p. 237, p. 238, the flesh 
or body of fish. 

Fist, close your hand in it, 15/ 
71 ; keep your opinions to 
yourself. 

Fist, not to be put on the table, 
18/45. 

Fit servants only to be engaged, 
p. 328. 

Flapjack, 212/13, a fried cake. 

Flasche, 183/985, dash. 

Flattery, avoid, p. 105. 

Flauer, 246/11, warm & air. 

Flaunes, 275/4 ; p. 287 ; flawne, 
212/12, a kind of tart; Fr. 
flans : m. Flawnes, Custards, 
Egge-pies. Cotgrave. Du. een 
keea vlaeye, a Cheese-cake or 
Flawne. Hexham. 

Flavoured dishes, eat, IL 64/297. 

Flax, wUd, 185/994. 

Flea, don't scratch after one, 134 

/279. 

Flemings, great drinkers, p. 247, 
note. 

Flesche-mought, 134/280, louse. 

Flesh, carving of, p. 140-6; p. 
271; how assayed, 325/767- 
70 ; sauces for, p. 151-3; 
sewynge or succession of dishes 
of, p. 270. 

Flesh, a dinner of, p. 164-6. 

Flette, 323/711, room, floor. 

Fleumaticua, 170/792 ; p. 220. 

Flewische, 169/777, melancholy. 

Flounders, 171/819; 174/842; 

282/10. 

Flyte, 300/54, quarrel ; don't, 21/ 
92. 

Focas or phocas, p. 234. 



f2 



84 



INDEX. 



Folk not to be qiunrelled with, 

58/6h 

Follow your letter, how to, 15/ 
83-6. 

Fonde, 40/91, tempt; A.S. faor 
dian. 

Food-holding hand, don't wipe 
your nose with your, 11. 14/ 
131; 11. 18/49. 

Foole, 212/12, as in gooseberry- 
fooL 

Fools won't be taught, 94/457. 

Foot^ushion, 177/882-4. 

Footmen to run by ladies' bridles, 
320/621. 

Foot-sheet, how to prepare it, 
177/879-84; 181/956, 960; 
183/988. 

Foot-sheet, the lord sits on it 
while he is undressed for bed, 
315/488. 

For, 119/34, because; 300/42, 
notwithstanding. 

For, 134/275, against, to stop or 
prevent. 

Forbear in anger, 94/437. 

Forbast, 302/104, plot, scheme for. 

Forder, 347/698, further. 
Fordo, 302/100, done for, killed. 
Forehead, to be joyful, 292/37. 
Forenoon, work in the, p. 257. 

Forethought's a good friend, 97/ 
567. 

Forewryter, 199/1243, transcrib- 
er) 

Forfeits to a lord, go to the trea- 
surer, 318/577. 

Forfetis, 29/52; Fr. forfaid : 
m. A crime, sinne, fault, mis- 
deed, offence, trespasse, trans- 
gression. Cot. 

Forgive, 304/186. 



Forhile, 37/34, conceal; A.S. 
hilatiy to conceal ; forhvXe^ con- 
cealed. 

Formes, 3 11/389; 31 4/464, fonns, 
benches. 

ForJ)ou}t, 49/32, repented of; 
A.S. foT^enjcan^ to misthink, 
distrust, despair. 

Forwit, 91/320, forethought^ 
prudence. 

Foul tales, don't tell, at table, 6/ 
140. 

Fourpence a piece for hire of 
horses, 310/376. Bee Kotos, 
p. 362. 

Four slices in each bit of meat^ 
273/18. 

Fourth day (after blood-letting), 
II. 46/173. 

Foxskin garments for winter, p. 
255. 

Franklin, a feast for one, p. 170-1. 

Franklins, rank of, 187/1071. 

Fray, 197/1210, fnght. 

Freke, 306/255, man, fellow; 
A.S. fretOy one who is bold. 

Fretoure powche, 1 65 / 700 ; 
fruture sage, 166/708. 

Friars, give way to them on pil- 
grimages, 308/303. 

Fricacion, or rubbing of the body, 
is good, p. 246 n. 

Fried things are fumose or indi- 
gestible, 139/358; 148/500; 
150/512; 272/6. 

Fried puddings last, IL 40/86. 

Fried things for the last course, 
II. 38/53. See Last course. 

Friend, consider your, 90/288. 

Friend, don't mistiust or fail him, 
332/3. 

Friendly, don't be too, p. 9, p. 
1 1, Une F. 



INDBX. 



85 



Friezeadow coats for winter, p. 
249. 

Pritters, 149/501; 160/511 ; 167 
/725, 737; 170/810; 273/24-6; 
277/32; 279/3. SeeFmi&r,&c. 

Friture, a, 167/725. 

Frogs shelter themselves under 
the leaves of ScaUoaa^ p. 225, 
note on L 987. 

Frote, 135/288, wring, twist. 
Fretyn or chervyn (chorvyn), 
Torgueo, Prompt. 

Frown, don't, 295/132. 

Froyze, 212/13, pancake, or omelet 

Fruit But of all maner of meate, 
the moost daungerous is that 
whiche is of fruites (fruifz 
crudz)^ as cheres, small cheryse 
(guinguea^), great cherise (gas- 
contpies)^ strauberis, fryberis 
(/ramhoisea) mulberis,c(?rneZfe«,' 
preunes, chestaynes nuts, fyl- 
berdes, walnuttes, cervyse, 
medlers, aples, peres, peches, 
melons, concombres, and all 
other kyndes of fruites, how- 
beit that youth, bycause of 
heate and moystnesse, doth 
dygest them better than age 
dothe. Du Chiefs Introduo 
tone, p, 1073-4. 

Fruit, don't eat it without wash- 
ing it, 11. 5/63 ; II. 19/76. 

Fruits to be eaten before dinner, 
162/667-8 ; after dinner, 11. 38 
/54. 

Frumenty potage, 141/391, fur- 
mity. 

Frumenty, 153/547; 154/549; 
with venesoun, 150/518. 

■ Ouunet : f. A kind of little, sweet, 
and long cherries ; tearmed so because at 
first they came oat of Gayezme; also 
any kind of Cherries. Gotgrare« 



Frusshe, p. 265, carve. 

Fruter Crispin & Napkin, p. 212. 

Fruture viant, sawge & pouche, 
149/501, ) meat, sago, & poach- 
ed mtters. 

Fruturs, 150/511 ; Fruyters, 277 
/32, fritters ; recipes for, p. 53. 

Fryture, a, 167/737, fritter. 

Fulgentius quoted, 86/165. 

Fuel, a groom for, 311/385. 

Full belly and hungry, 16/17. 

Fumose, 139/353, fume-creating, 
indigestible. 

Fumositees, p. 139-40. 

Fumosities, p. 139; p. 210; 267 
/4 ; p. 272, indigestibilities, 
indigestible things creating 
noxious fumes in the belly that 
ascend to the brain; such to 
be set aside, 141/396. 

Fumosity, 124/105 ; p. 202. 

Furs to be brushed every week, 
180/943. 

Fustian, 179/922, a cloth over 
and under the sheets of a bed. 

Fustyan, whyte, 246/2. 

Fygges, 121/74; p. 200, figs. 

Fyle, 313/435, fill 1 

Fylour, 313/447, a rod on which 
the bed-curtains hung. "Fylour 
looks like/oZZoe, G. fdgey which 
is explained as something bent 
round; it would apply to the 
curtain-rod round the top of the 
bed." Wedgwood. 

Fylyiige, 14/52, dirtying; A.S. 

filian, to foul ; fylnes, foulnes ; 

f^ld, filth 
Fynne, p. 265, cut up. 

' CbmeiUe, a Comill berrie ; CbrHittier, 
The long cheirie, wild cherrie, or Cor- 
nilltree. Gotgrare. 



86 



INDEX. 



Fyr, 306/232, further. 
Fyrhous, 316/514, privy 1 

Fysegge, p. 329, No. x, phiz, 
face. . 

Fytt, 326/806, section of a poem. 

Fytte, 183/980, while, time. 

Fyxfax, to be taken out of the 
neck, 144/444. 

Gabriel, angel, 16/5 ; 17/7 ; 164/ 
692., 

Galantyne sauce, 156/569 ; 174/ 
840 ; 281/27, 29 ; 282/9. 

Gralantyne, to be mixed with 
lamprey pie, 160/634 ; recipe 
for, p. 216. 

Gkilingale, p. 160, last line but 
one; p. 216. 

Gallants, shortcoated, denounced, 
136/305. 

Galleymawfrey, 212/14, a disk 

Gallowgrass, p. 240. 

Game, some, to be played before 
going to business, p. 247. 

Gamelyn sauce, 152/539 ; 153/ 
541. 

Gaming, the fruits of, p. 346, 
cap. vL 

Ganynge, 135 / 294, yawning : 
Ganynge or Janynge, Osdtus. 
Prompt. I gane, or gape, or 
yane, ie haille. Palsgrave, ib. 
** I ijanSy I gaspe or gape. Je 
bailie" Palsgrave. 

Gape not, 135/294; when going 
to eat, 20/65. 

Gaping is rude, 293/77. 

Garcio, 313/434-5, groom (of the 
chamber). 

Gardevyan, 196/1202, a safe for 
meat. 

Gares, 312/420, causes. 



GarUc, 174/843 ; II. 42/111 ; H. 
44/125-7. 

Grarlic, the sauce for roast beef 
and goose, 152/536. 

Garlic, green, with goose, 278/2. 

Gase, 39/67, f goose, or agaze ; 
see p. 44, 1. 5 £rom foot 

Gastarios, a fish, p. 234. 

Gate, on coming to a lord's, what 
to do, 299/5. 

Gaufres, II. 38/54, light cakes. 

Gaze about, don't, 76/175. 

Greeso, wild, with pepper-sauce, 
II. 42/120. 

Gele, p. 165, note' ; gelly, 280/ 
ll,jeUy. 

Gelopere sauce, 279/4 ; p. 287. 

Grentilmen welle nurtured, 187/ 
1038. 

Gentilwommen, rank of, 187/ 
1039. 

Gentle, be, 56/36 ; 74/99 ; 93/ 
423 ; to servants, 92/369. 

Gentlemen, one property of, 332/ 
18 ; to be courteous, 101/679/ 

Gentlemen of the chamber, 313/ 
433. 

Gentlemen's table in hall, 300/ 
33. 

Gentyllis, 22/93, gentlefolk. 

Geson, 170/803, plentiful 

Gesse, 342/350, guest. 

Gestis, 195/1189, guests. 

Get up early, 56/43 ; at sbc, 72/ 
61. 

Getting-up in the morning, a 
lord, how dressed, p. 177-8. 

Gifts, girls not to take, from men, 
40/95. 

Gigge, 381/55, Giggelot, 40/82, 
a giggling girL Gygelo(t), 
wench ; gygelot, wynch ; Agu" 



INDEX. 



87 



gtda. Prompt. : " y* fayrare 
woman, y* more gyglott." 
Way's note. " Giglot, a giddy, 
laughing girL Shak. has it in 
a worse sense." Brockett " A 
gigglet or a gigge ; Siet a Wan- 
ton." Hexham. 

GUd, 1,31/231, gilt plate. 

Ginger, white and green, 121/75 ; 
colombyne, valadyne, and 
maydelyn, 126/131-2; cohim- 
byne, 168/758; green, 266/21. 

Ginger sauce with lamb, kid, &c., 
152/537. 

Ginger, 174/847; with pheasant, 
278/19. 

Girdle, 178/907. 

Girls, how they should behave, 
p. 36-47 ; young girls pick 
their noses, 308/328. 

Glaucus, a white fish, p. 234. 

Glorious (boasting), don't be too, 
p. 9, p. 11, line G. 

Glosand, 308/313, lying. 

Glose, 51/105, Ue ; 305/199, 
deceit, lie. 

Glosere, 19/59. Fr. flateury a 
flatterer, (/Zozer, fawner, soother, 
foister, smoother; a claw-backe, 
sycophant, pickthanke. Cot 

Gloves to be taken off on enter- 
ing the hall, 299/16. 

Gloves, perfumed, 248/8-9. Cp. 
in the account of Sir John 
Nevile, of Chete, in The Forme 
of Cury, p. 171, "for a pair of 
perfumed Gloves, 3«, 4d. ; for 
a pair of other Gloves, 4d.** 

Gloucester, Humphrey, Duke of, 
195/1177; 198/12*30; p. cxvL 

Glowtynge, 134/281, looking 
sulky, staring. Halliwell. Sw. 
glvtta ; Norse, glytfa, gletta, 



look out of the comer of the 
eye. Wedgwood. 

Gnastynge, 136/301, note *. 

Gnaw bones, don't, 344/457. 

Go to bed betimes, p. 44, L 3 
from foot ; 50/72. 

Goatskin gloves, 248/9. 

Goben, 155/566, cut into lumps. 

Gobone, 281/2, cut in limips ; 
281/29, a piece. 

Gobyn, 157/580 ; p. 215, gobbets. 

Gobyns, 161/638, lumps, pieces. 

* God be here ! ' say on entering, 

21/86. 

Godly Bokes to be read, p. 64 ; 
104/789. 

Good cheer, make, at table, 20/ 
53, be jolly. 

Good manners, learn, 344/507. 

* Good Morning ;' say it to all 

you meet, 17/20; 73/83. 

Goodly, 178/908, nattily. 

Goose, how to carve, 142/402 ; 
p. 277, last line but one; 
garlic its sauce, 152/536 ; 
roast, 170/801 ; bad for sick 
people, II. 50/220, 

Goose, p. 222 ; II. 36/46. 

Goshawk, p. 219, note on Heir- 
onsew. 

Gown, a man's, 178/904. 
Gowt of a crayfish, 159/607. 

Grace, 162/663, the prayer 
before dinner, 341/305-322; 
II. 26/5 ; to be said by the 
Almoner, 323/729 ; say it, 11. 
3/7 ; II. 16/9 ; don't eat before 
it's said, 16/11 ; 11. 6/9. 

Grace after dinner, 11. 40/74 ; 
sit stiU till it's said, 22/82; 
81/357 ; pages to stand by 
their lord while it's said, 8/197. 



88 



INDEX. 



Gradewable, p. 284, graduated, 
have taken degrees. 

Gramed, 139/348, angered, vexed 

Granat, 257/11, a garnet. 

Grapes, 122/77; 162/668; 266/ 
21. 

Gravelle of beeff or motoun, 150/ 
619. 

Gravus, a fish, p. 234. 

Graynes, 125/123 ; 126/137, 
141 ; p. 207. Fr. Maniguet, 
the spice caUed Graines, or 
graines of Paradise. Cot 

Graynes of paradice, 267/32. 

Graytly, 177/886 ; entirely, quite. 

Grayue, 378/576, 689, 597, reeve, 
outdoor steward. 

Greahle, 129/192, suitable. 

Great birds, 165/698. 

Grece (fat), hen of, 272/29. 

Greedy, don't be, 77/215. 

Green cheese, p. 200, n. to 1. 74. 

Green fish, 174/851 ; 280/8, 29, 
ling. Fr. Morue: f. The Cod, 
or Greenefish (a lesse and dull- 
eyed kind whereof is called by 
some, the Morhwell). Morm 
verte. Greenefish. Moruyer. 
Poigsonnier moruyer, A Fish- 
monger that sells nothing but 
Cod, or Greenefish. Cot. 

Green sauce, 174/851 ; 282/13, 
14. 

Green wax, accounts to be briefed 
with, 316/536. 

Greet the men you meet, 306/ 
251. 

Greithe, 177/880, ready. 

Greke, 125/120; 202/31 ; p. 206, 
No. 12, a sweet wine. 

Grene metis, 124/97, green vege- 
tables. 



Greve, 197/1214. Fr. griefs 
trouble. 

Greyhounds fed on brown bread, 
320/628 ; p. 200, note on L 
61 ; each has a bone, Ac., 320/ 
633. ^Eau ^ pain, e'ed la 
viande du ehiefK Prov. : Bread 
and water is diet for dog^w" 
Cot. 

Greyn, 178/914, a crimson stuff 
or cloth. 

Grin, don't, 20/57 ; 28, 29/29 ; 
II. 28/27. 

Grisynge, 136/301, grinding. 

Groan not, 135/298. 

Groggynge, 134/273, grun^^ling. 
Grutchyn, gruchyn, murmuro. 
Prompt. Oruger, to grudge, 
repine, mutter. Cot. 

Grone fische, 154/555. 

Groom of the King may sit with 
a knight, 191/1122-5 ; 286/1. 

Grooms of the Chamber, their 
duties, p. 313-14. 

Groos, 145/461, large. 

Grossetest, £p., his Household 
Statutes, p. 328-31. 

Grouellynge, 245/8, 12, face 
downwards. 

Growelle of force, 150/519 ; p. 
213. 

Grudge, don't, 93/411. 

Grudging, grumbling, don't be, 

64/7. 

Gruell of befe or motton, 273/27. 

Gnimbling of servants to be put 
down, p. 330. 

Gudgeons, 171/819; p. 234. 

Guffaw, don't, II. 30/9. 

Gulp drink down, don't, IE. 12/ 
87. 

Guns blasting, (breaking wind,) to 



INDEX. 



89 



he avoided, 136/304. The 
parallel passage in Sloane MS. 
2027 (foL 42, last line), ia 
"And sMb wey be ware thyn 
ars be natte carpyng." 

Guidylstodes 313/442, girdle- 
stead, waist. 

Gurnard, 156/574 ; 167/725 ; 
174/849 ; baked, 280/9. 

^yme, 308/304,attend to,wish, like. 

Gymlet, 121/67, 71. 

Gynger, 3 kinds of, 126/131-2 ; 
p. 207. 

Haberdine, 'Mouschebout: m.The 
spotted Cod whereof Haberdine 
is made.' Cot. 

Hable, 5/111, fitting, due. 

Had, 25/149, ? held in the 
memory. 

Had-y-wist, 34/20 ; hadde-y- 
wyste, 15/72 ; vain after-regret, 
'had I but known how it 
would have turned out.' 

Haddock, 174/845, 282/11. 

Haddock, how to carve, 156/576. 

Haft of a knife, 322/675. 

Haggis, II. 42/112. 

Hair, don't scratch, for lice, 134/ 
280; to be combed, 295/125. 

Hake, 174/845 ; p. 223; 280/31. 

Hakenay buttur, 155/559. 

Halata, p. 234. 

Hale, 4/101, A.S. hdl^ healthy. 

Half-loaf not to be put on table, 
II. 36/29. 

Half-penny ; farrier paid one a 
day, 319/616 ; hunter one for 
every hound, 320/629. 

Halke, 118/24; A.S. kylca, 
hooks, turnings. Somner. 

Hall, who should not keep it 



(1 meaning), 188/1048; who 
seated in, 299/19-22. 

Hall^ head of the house to eat 
in, p. 331, No. xv. ; birds may 
be roasted in, U. 46/153. 

Halybut, a fish, 157/584 ; 167/ 
735; 280/12; 281/11. 

Hammering in speech is bad, 294/ 
109. 

Hand to be cleaned when you 
blow your nose in it, 301/90 ; 
put it on your stomach to warm 
the latter, p. 245. 

Handkercher to wipe the nose on, 
78/263. 

Handkerchief for the nose, 292/ 
49; *Jan. 1537-8, my ladys 
grace lanes handekercher^ 
silk^^.' P. P. Exp. of Princess 
Mary, p. 54. 

Handle nothing while you are 
spoken to, 4/83. 

Handles of knives to be turned to 
the eaters, II. 40/80. 

Hands, don't pick 'em, 78/253. 

Hands and feet^ keep 'em quiet, 
308/317. 

Hands, keep off the table, II. 4/ 
39 ; to be washed, 28, 29/22 ; 
before meals, 309/343, 323/ 
713-21 ; to be wiped before 
taking hold of the cup, 6/156. 

Hands to be clean, 76/171 ; at 
meals, 14/41, 51 ; 16/9; 17/13. 

Hang in hand, 305/199; be 
delayed. 

Hanging down your head is 
wrong, 295/130. 

Hard cheese, the virtues o^ 266/ 
29. iSee Cheese. 

Hare, 150/517 ; II. 36/48 ; chive 
sauce to, II . 42/1 1 6. See Ceuye. 

Hare's flesh binds, II. 50/207. 



90 



INDEX. 



Harington, Sir John; the Dyet 
for every day, p. 254-5 ; on 
Eising and going to Bed, p. 
256-9. 

Harm of others, don't talk, at 
table, 302/102. 

Harpooning whales, p. 232. 

Harts-skin garments to be worn 
in summer, p. 255. 

Harvest, the device of, 168/754. 

Harvest time, what to eat in, IL 

64/282. 

Hastily, don't eat> 16/19. 

Hasty, don't be, 30, 31/77 ; 56/ 
34 ; 91/341. 

Hat, 178/909. 

Haylys, 306/253, salute. O.K. 
heilsa, Dan. hilsay to salute, to 
cry hail to. Wedgwood. 

Hazarders, avoid, 66/32. 

Head and hands, keep quiet, 4/ 
80. 

Head, don't hang it, 6/148; II. 
30/6 ; don't cast it down, 27/ 
16 ; don't bend it too low, 309/ 
330 ; don't toss it about, 39/61. 

Heads of field- and wood-birds 
unwholesome ; they eat toads, 
p, 279-80. 

Headsheet, 179/925; 181/950; 
182/966. 

Heart, puts yours into your work, 
II. 25/160. 

Hede, 22/91, host, master or 
lord of a house at a meal. 

Hedge-hogs' countenances, 292/ 
43. 

Heele, 56/43, health. 

Heelfulle, 1/10, health-ful, help- 
ful. 

Heere, 151/524; Sloane MS. 
1315 reads hele^ health. 



Heironsew (the heron), 165/696 ; 
p. 219. See Heron. 

Hele, 321/655, cover. 

Helle, 5/131, clear, A.S. helle. 

Hell's dearer than heaven, 89/277 . 

Help all, be ready to, 305/193. 

Help others from your own dish, 
p. 330, No. xiv. 

Hemp, the names of, p. 240 ; its 
advantages, p. 242-3. 

Hen, fat, how to carve, 142/409 ; 
150/517. 

Henchman, p. ii ; Mayster of the 
henshmen — escmer de pages 
dhonnevr> Palsgrave. 

Hende, 5/122, hands. 

Henderson's Hist, of Ancient and 
Modem Wines, p. 203-7. 

Hens, II. 36/48. See Cock. 

Her, 307/294, higher. 

Herald of Arms, 187/1035 ; king 
or chief herald, 1. 1036. 

Herber, 312/427, lodge, accommo- 
date. 

Herbe benet, 184/993. 

Herbe John, 184/992. 

Herbs in sheets to be hung round 
the bath-room, 183/977. 

Heme, 118/24, comer. 

Heron, to d3r8membre or carve, p. 
276. See Heyron-eewe. 

Heronsew, 271/5 ; to be cooked 
dry, 278/20. 

' I wol nat tellen of her straunge 

sewes, 
Ne of her swannes, ne here 
heronsewes. 

Chaucer, March. Tale, L 60, 
V. 2, p. 357, ed. Morris. 

Herring ; L. Andrewe on the, p. 
230 ; II. 40/83. 

Herrings, baked, 166/722; fresh, 



INDEX. 



91 



174/844; fresh, broiled, 168/ 
748; salt, 173/832. 

Herrings, how to carve and serve, 
154/550-3. 

Herrings, white, or frefeh, how to 
serve up, 161/641-5, 280/28. 

Hethyng, 307/266, contempt. 

Heyhove, 184/993, a herb. 

Heyriflf, 184/993, a herb. 

Heyron-sewe, 152/239; p. 213, 
the heron: how to carve it, 143/ 
422. 

Hiccup not, 135/298. 

High name, the, 303/152, Godi 

High j;)laces, men in, to be gentle, 
83/39. 

Highest place, don't take unless 
bidden, 309/347. 

Hit, /or his, 145/456. 

Hithe, 169/783, it. 

Hold your hand before your 
mouth when you spit, 23/ 
115-18. 

Hole of the privy to be covered, 
180/933. 

Holy days, worship on, 43/156. 

Holy water, take it at the church- 
door, 304/160. 

Holyhock, 183/991. 

Hol}Ti, 311/399. ? 

Hom, 307/273, them. 

Homes, servants to visit their 
own, p. 329, No. xL 

Honest men, follow, 88/233. 

Honest, 20/74, fitting, proper. 

Honeste, 181/954, propriety, 
decency. 

Honey not clarified, used for 
dressing dischmetes, 150/514. 

Hood, a man's, 178/909. 

Hood, take it oflf, 299/16. 



Hoopid, 128/167, made round 
like a hoop. 

Hor, 307/272, their. 

Hornebeaks, p. 213, note on L 
533. 

Horse-hire, id, a day, 310/375. 

Horsyng, 317/564, being horsed, 
horses. 

Hose (breeches), pull up your 
master's, 70/3. 

Hose, p. 224 ; to be rubbed, 338/ 
91. Du. koussen, Stockins or 
Hosen ; opper-kotissen^ Hose 
or Breeches ; onder koussen, 
Nether-stockins; boven koiufseuy 
Upper-hosen, or Briches. Hex- 
hauL 

Hosen, 246/10 ; 282/31. 

Hosyn, 176/873 ; 178/895-8 ; 
181/961 ; p. 224, breeches. 

Host, don't force wine out of 
him, II. 4/34; II. 18/40; 
don't offer him bread or meat, 
II. 13/106 ; drinks first, II. 5/ 
79 ; II. 20/87 ; thank him, 
n. 5/75; II. 14/147; 11. 19/83. 

HostiaritiSf 312/430-1, usher. 

Hot dishes, a dodge to prevent 
them burning your hands, 324/ 
757-60. 

Hot wines, p. 205, in extract 
from A. Borde. 

Houndfisch, 157/584 ; p. 215 ; 
172/827; 174/844 ; 281/11, 
dogfish. 

' He luUith her, he kissith hir 

ful of te ; 
With thikke bristlis on his herd 

unsofte, 
lik to the skyn of houndfisch^ 

scharp as brere, 
(For he was schave al newe in 

his manere,) 



92 



IKDEZ. 



He nibbith hir about fair tendie 
face.' 

Chaucer, Marchaundes Tale, 
V. 2, p. 335-6, ed. Morris. 

Houndes-f jBshe, mortrus of , 282/2. 

House of oflFvce, 69/7 from foot, 
privy; 66/13, pantry, Ac. 1 

Household bread, 120/55; to be 3 
days old, 266/6. 

Household, how to manage, p. 41. 

Housholde, Babees that dwelle 
in, 2/45. 

Hov> the Chod Wijf tauyte Hir 
Dimytir, p. 36-47. 

How the Wise Man taujt His 
Son, p. 48-52. 

How to quiet a husband, 38/42. 

Howndes Dayes, p. 234, Cap, 
XV., dog-days. 

Humble, be, 47/204. 

Humphrey, Duke of Gloucester, 
198/1230, App. to KusseU Pref. 

Hungry, eat at once when, U. 
62/256. 

Hunte, 320/629, huntsman ; pi., 

Huntes, 320/628, huntsmen. 

Hure, 140/376, hood, cap. 

Hurtilberyes, 123/82; p. 201, n. 
to 1. 81, 266/24. 

Hurtful things, avoid, II. 54/300. 

Husband, honour your, 38/40, 

Husbands, the duty of, 353/8. 

Hyacinth, 257/11, jacinth, a pre- 
cious stone. 

Hyjt, 305/201, promised, vowed. 

Jack and Jill, don't chatter with, 
22/90. 

langelynge, 4 / 94, chattering, 
(don't be), p. 9, p. 12, line L 

langle (chatter), don't, 3/68; 
341/266. 



Iangylle,22/90,chatter; 'iangdyn, 
or iaveryn, iaberyn, garndo 
hlaiero.^ P. Parv. 

Janitor, 310/360-1, the porter. 

lapynge, 4/95, joking. 

lardyne, abnond, 168/744. 

Jaws, don't stretch too much, H. 
32/20. 

Idle, don't be, 19/32 ; 49/34. 

Idleness the porteress of all vices, 

56/28-9. 

Jealousy, hate it^ p. 9, p. 11, 
line G. 

JeUes, 150/511; iely, 165/693. 

Jelly, 150/511, 516; 151/520; 
167/731 ; 172/825 ; p. 213. 

lestis, 175/858, proceedings, din- 
ner& 

lettis, p. 12, L N, fashions. 

lettynge, p. 12, L I, showing-ofi^ 
'I leHe w* facyon and coun- 
tenaimce to set forthe myselfe, 
ie hraggueJ Palsgrave, in Way. 

lettynge, 136/300, note*. Fr. 
Po«te a rakehell, or Colledge- 
seruant, thats euer gadding or 
letting abroad. Cot. 

Jeun, 11. 6/8, faster?; *afestor 
fastiDg.' Cot. 

Ignorance, the evils of, 340/230. 

Ill thy foe, don't, 100/665. 

Imbrowe, 6/157, dirty, soiL 

Improberabille, 170/795, very 
proper 1 

Impytous, p. 248, impetuous (last 
line). 

Inactivity hurtful, IL 34/12. 

Infect^ 199/1249. Fr. infecter, 
to infect; poison; depraue, 
corrupt. Cot. 

Inferiors, be gentle with, 96/509. 

Ingredyentes, 127/144, materials. 



INDRX. 



93 



Inhumanitie, 339/1 55, discour- 
tesy. 

Instrument, play on some, 85/134. 

Interrupt no one,'30, 31/69. 

Intrippe, 31/69, interrupt. 

Inventory, butler to take one, p. 
66. 

Jocose things, speak, at table, IL 
28/29. 

John the Baptist's day to Michael- 
mas, feasts from, p. 278. 

John, Duke, a yeoman in his 
house got a reward, 321/647. 

loUe of ^e salt sturgeoun, 160/ 
622 ; p. 215 ; 281/23. 

loncate, 123/82; p. 201; 266/ 
28, junket, orig. cream-cheese 
made in wicker-baskets, from 
L. juncuSf a rush. Mahn. 
* Junkets^ Cakes and Sweet- 
meats with which Grentle- 
women entertain one another, 
and Young-men their Sweet- 
hearts ; any sort of delicious 
Fare to feast and make merry 
with,* Philipps. 

lowtes, p. 274, last line ; p. 287. 

Irweue, 201/3. 1 Fr. MtUette . . 
the maw of a Calfe, which being 
dressed is called the Eenet-bag, 
JreTt^M-bagyOrCheslop-bag. Cot. 

Judges, the duty of, 353/2. 

Judge's servant, II. 23/101. 

lusselle, p. 58 ; 151/520 ; 170/ 
805; 273/28; recipe for, p. 
53. 

Justices, the under, rank o^ 186/ 
1018; 188/1061. 

Ivory comb, 178/902. 

Karle, 18/48, churl, poor man. 
Kater, 318/580, cater, provide. 
Kepe, 324/760, take care. 



Kepyng (stingy) don't be, p. 9, 
p. 12, line K. 

Kercheff, 177/885. 

Kerpe, 23/120, ? is it complain, or 
only talk, chatter ; * carpyn or 
talkyn, fabulor, confabulor, 
garnUo,* Pr. Parv. *to carpe, 
(Lydgate) this is a farre nor- 
then verbe, cacqueter.^ Pals- 
grave, ib, note. 

Kerpe, 23/120-2, carp, or break 
wind 1 See Guns. The Sloane 
MS. 2027, foL 42, has for L 304 
of Russell, p. 136, 'And alle 
wey be ware thyn ars be 
natte carpyng.' 

Earpyng, 14/62, talking. Carp- 
ynge, Loquacitas^ eollocutio. 
Prompt. 

Keruynge of flesshe, p. 271 ; of 
fysshe, p. 280-1. 

Kerver, termes of a, p. 265. 

Keuer, 133/265-6, cover, put 
covers or dishes for. 

Keys, keep your own, 42/133. 

Kickshaw, 212/14, a tart 

Kid, 165/694; 170/807; with 
ginger sauce, 162/537 ; how to 

carve, 144/441. 

Kidney of fawn,'&c to be served, 
273/9. 

Kind, be always, 305/195. 

Kind, don't be too, p. 9, p. 12, 

line K. 

King ranks with an emperor, 
186/1007; 188/1045. 

King's Messengers, 285/31. 
King's officers, 285/25. 

King's servants to be received as 
one degree higher than they 
are, 191/1117-27. 

Knack bones, don't, 79/314 ; 



96 



INDEX. 



mjnced, and powdour of Pep^, 
powdoMr gylofre, And do it in a 
Dladder, and lat it 8ee)> til it be 
ynowl^. and whan it is ynowh, kerf 
it, leshe it in likeneese of a peakodde, 
and take grete raysonB and grynde 
hem in a mort«r, inwe hem up wi)y 
rede Wjrne, do ]^erio mylke of almandw, 
coloKr it with aauders astd safron and 
do )>0rto nowdotir of pep^ and of 
ffilofre, ana boile it. and whan it is 
iboiled, take powdovr of canel and 
gyng^, and temper it np with wyne. 
and do alle t>ise thyngu togyd^. and 
loke ^at it be renyns, and (at it not 
see^ aft^ that it is cast togyder, and 
Beme it forth. 

Leche, whyte, 271/7. 

Lecherous, don't be, 96/519. 

Lechery, flee from, 50/61. 

Leeches, 150/516, strips of meat, 
&c., dressed in sauce or jelly. 

Lees, 142/407; 146/466, strips, 
159/610, slices. 

Leessez, 149/504; 150/546, strips 
of meat in sauce. 

Lede, 301/78, leaved, left 

Left hand only to touch food, 
138/329. 

Legate, 186/1013 ; the pope's, L 
1023. 

Legh, 313/441, 1 law, hill, eleva- 
tion, A.S. hloew ; or lea land, 
ground. 

Legs not to be set astraddle, 136/ 
299. 

Legs of great birds, the best bits, 
142/403,410; 143/426; 146/ 
471. 

Lele, 318/593, loyally 1, justly. 

Lemman, 160/635, dear young 
friend ; A.S. leofy dear. 

Lengthe, 147/488, lengthen, 

Lere, p. 60, empty ; A.S. Icer-nea^ 
empti-ness. 

Lered, 181/956, taught, told. 

Lerynge, 172/831, teaching. 



Lesche, v, tr,<, p. 265, slice. 

Lessynge, 267/17, remedy, cure. 

Lesynge, 125/116, curing, restor- 
ing to good condition. 

Lete, 124/110; p. 202, leak. 

Letters, the use of, 340/186. 

Leues, 324/741, remains. 

Leuys, 325/787, remains. 

Lewd livers to dread, 351/933. 

Lewd persons, don't be familiar 
with, 82/15. 

-lewe, see drunkelewe. 

Liar, don't be one, 135/292 ; 305/ 
213. 

Liberal, don't be too, p. 9, p. 12, 
lineL. 

Lice, 134/280; p. 209. 

Lick not the dish, 135/295. 

Lick your knife, don't, H. 40/97. 

Licoure, 141/382, sauce, dressing. 

Lie not, 21/75. 

Lie far from your bedfellow, 
308/297. 

Lies, 125/116, deposit, settle- 
ment. 

Light payne, 138/339, fine bread 
for eating. 

Lights to be put above the Hall 
chimney or fire-place, 314/ 
467-8. 

Line of the blood royal, 285/24. 

linen, body-, to be clean, 176/ 
876. 

linen, used to wipe tbe nether 
end, 180/935. 

Ling (the fish), 154/555 ; p. 214 ; 
p. 174, note 8; 175/852; 
282/6. 

Lining of a jacket, the best^ p. 
247. 

Lips; don't put 'em out as if 
you'd kiss a horse, 293/73. 



INDEX. 



97 



lips, keep *em clean^ 28, 29/34. 

lis, 119/31, relieve, 'ac a-lys 
us of yfele,' but deliver us 
from evil, Lord's Prayer. ReL 
Ant. i 204. 

Listen to him wlio speaks to you, 
309/331. 

Lite, 172/830, Uttle. 

Litere, 313/435, litter, straw or 
rushes for beds. 

Livery of candles, Nov. 1 to Feb. 
2, 327/839. Ft. La LivrSe dea 
Ghanotnea, their liverie, or 
corrodie ; their stipend, exhibi- 
tion, dailie allowance in 
victuals or money. Cot. 

Loaf and cup to every man, p. 67. 

Loaf, small, to be cut in two, 
324/735. 

Loaves, two to be brought when 
bread is wanted, 325/781-4. 

Lokere, 19/60, ?not look, over- 
see, superintend, and so 
oppress; but from Dutch 
LokeTy an aUurer, or an inticer, 
locheUy to allure or entise, 
Hexham; lokkeuy to aUure, 
bait. Sewel. 

Lombard, leche, 164/689 : 271/2. 
See Leche Lombard. 'Frutour 
lumhert . . Lesshe lumhertJ 
Oxford dinner, 1452. Eeliq. 
Ant. L 88. 

Look at your clothes, don't, 82/1 7. 
Look before you leap, 99/625. 

Look steadily at whoever talks to 
you, 3/65. 

London bushel, 20 loaves out of 
a, 320/625. 

London, Mayor of, 192/1137. 

Londoner, an ex-Mayor, 187/ 
1025; 189/1067. 

Long hair is unseemely, 295/126. 



Long pepper, 267/33. 

Longe wortes, 150/518, ? carrots, 
parsnips, Ac 

Lopster. ' Finallie of the legged 
kinde we have not manie, 
neither haue I scene anie more 
of this sort than the Polypus 
called in English the lobstar, 
crafish or creuis, and the crab. 
. . CaroluB Stephanus in his 
maison riLgtique^ doubted 
whether these lobstars be fish 
or not; and in the end con- 
cludeth them to grow of the 
purgation of the water as dooth 
the frog, and these also not to 
be eaten, for that they be 
strong and verie hard of diges- 
tion.' Harrison, v. L p. 224-5. 

Lord, a, how dressed, p. 177-8 ; p. 
282 ; how undressed and put 
to bed, p. 181-2; p. 283; his 
pew and privy, p. 179 ; wash- 
ing before dinner, 5/129 ; after, 
8/199. See Hands, &c. 

Lord, how to behave before one, 
13/3; how to serve one at 
table, p. 26, p. 27. 

Lord, let yours drink first, 20/69. 

Lord or lady when talking, not to 
be interrapted, 5/106. 

Lordes nurrieris, 187/1039; p. 
226. 

Lords* beds, 313/443. 

Lorely, 303/136, loosely about 1 
A.S. leorariy leosan, to go forth^ 
away, or forward, leese, lose. 

Lothe (be loth to lend), p. 9, p. 12, 
line L. 

Lothe, 300/48, be disgusted. 

Loud, don't be, at table, 80/337. 

Loud talking and laughing to be 
avoided, 135/291. 



98 



INDEX. 



Loued, 319/600, allowed, given 

credit for« 
Love God, 36/10; and your 

neighbour, 19/51. 

Love, the fruits of; 349/815. 

Lowe, 46/188, submit^ make them- 
selves low. 

Lowly, be, 341/278. 

Lowne, 291/12, lout. 

Lownes, 47/204, meekness, hu- 
mility. 

Lowt, 157/579, Ue. 

Lowte, 13/8, do obeisance, bow. 
* I lowte, I gyue reuerence to 
one, le me cambre, le luyfais 
la reuerence.' Palsgrave, in 
Way. A.S. hlutan, to bow. 

Lumpischli, 27/16, *to be lum- 
pish, botaehtigh zijn: hotach- 
Ugh, Eudish, Blockish, or that 
hath no understanding.' Hex- 
ham. 

Lumps (fish), 11. 44, note K 

Luxury, despise, XL 54/298. 

Luxury to be away, IL 32/40. 

Lyer, p. 60, f the cook's stock for 
soup ; ^ossed ' a mixture ' by 
Mr Morris in Liher Cure Coco- 
rum. And make a lyoure of 
brede and blode, and lye hit 
berwithe . . ib, p. 32, in ' GrOse 
in a Hogge pot.' Fr. lier to 
soulder, vnite, combine. - Cot. 

Lyfb, p. 265, carve. 

Lying, against^ p. 351, cap. xiiL 

Lykorous, 135/292, lip-licking 1 

Lynse wolse, 248/5, linsey- 
wolsey. 

Lynd, 21/61, Du. lindt, soft, 
milde, or gentle. Hex. 

Lyour, 313/446, a band. 

Lytulle of worde, 300/34, sparing 



in speech. 

Lyuande, 43/149, live ; imp. 
part, for infin. See Mr Skeat's 
Prefaces to Lancelot and 
Partenay ; Mr Morris's to 
Ayenbite, &c. 

Lyvelode, 190/1087-8, property. 

Lyueray, 310/371, pL lyueiife, 
311/395, allowances of food, 
Ac See Livery, 

Lyuerey, p. 329, No.viL servant's 
dress. Fr. livree . . One's cloth, 
colours, or deuice in colours, 
worn by his seruants or others. 
Cotgrave. 

Mackerel, 155/559; p. 157; p. 
214; salt, 173/834; how to 
carve, 156/576-6. 

Mackeroone, 212/14, a tart. 

Magistrates, their duty, 354/18.. 

Magpies, II. 36/51. 

Make, 25/143, stroke! 

MalencolicuSy p. 170; p. 220. 

MaHce, 349/783. 

Mallard, 278/28 ; how to carve 
it, 142/402 ; 272/25. 

Mallard, Ac, how they get rid of 
their stink, 279/32-3. 

Maluesy, 267/20 ; Malvesyn, 
125/120 ; p. 202 ; p. 206, No. 
12 ; p. 209, No. 6 ; the sweet 
wine Malmsey. 

Malyke or Malaga, figs of, 280/18. 

Mameny, 165/705; 168/744; 
recipe at, p. 53. 

Monchet, 320/627, fine bread. 

Manerable, 191/1113, weU- 
trained. 

Manere, 34/15, good manners. 

Manerly, 129/195 ; 179/923, 
neatly. 



INDEX. 



99 



Maneis, 319/601, dwelling, 
houses, mansions, Fr. manoir, 
a Mansion, Mannor, or Man- 
nor-house. Cot. 

Manger, a horse's, 319/610. 

Mangle your food, don't, 7/176-9. 
* I mangle a thing, I disfygure 
it with cuttyng* of it in peces or 
without order. Je mangonne . . 
andy^ mutille. You have man- 
gylled this meate horrybly, it 
is nat to sette afore no honest 
men {nvl Jwmme de Men) nowe.' 
PalBgrave. 

Manners, good ; you're not worth 
a fly without, 72/36-40. 

Manners maketh man, 14/34 ; 
are more requisite thap play- 
ing, 345/513. 

Man's arms, the use of, 19/38. 

Mansuetely, 177/887. Fr. man- 
suety gentle, courteous, meeke, 
mild, humble. Cot. 

Mantle, 181/957, cloak or dress- 
ing-gown. 

Mantle of a whelk, 160/625. 

Many hands make work light, 
41/120. « The Proverbe, Many 
hands make light worked G. 
Markham, Art of Archerie, 
1634, p. 20. 

Many words are tedious, 3/75. 

Mark, Matthew, Luke, and John, 
bless yourself by, 303/151. 

Marquess and Earl are equal, 
186/1012 ; 188/1049. 

Marriages, good, how to make, 
86/149. 

Marshal of the Hall, p. 185-194, 
p. 284-6; his duties, p. 310- 
12; arrests rebels, 311/381; 
seats men by their ranks, 311/ 
403 ; has a short wand, 309/ 
356 ; attends to all bed-cham- 



bers except the lord's, 312/ 
427-30. 

Marshal or usher comes up to a 
guest, 300/30. 

Marshallynge, 194/1165, arrang- 
ing of guests. 

Martyn, skin or fur of, for 
garments, p. 255. 

Martynet, 271/9 ; 273/7, the 
martin (bird). 

Mary, the Virgin, 164/691. 

Mase, 39/68, place of public 
resort? Madden. 

Mase, 305/216, makes. 

Mass, hear one daily, 17/17 ; go 
to, every morning, IL 34/3. 

Mass heard by the nobles every 
morning, but not by business 
men, p. 246. 

Master, don't go before your, 
307/281 ; how to become one, 
II. 24/156; II. 25/162; to 
drink firsts IL 28/33. 

Master, please your, 11/16. lor 
mats ne gaigne qui plaide a 
son seigneur; ouj qui procede 
h son Maistre. Pro. 'No man 
euer throue by suing his Lord 
or Maister; (for either God 
blesses not so vndutifull a 
strife, or successe foUowes not 
in so vuequal a match.) Cot 

Master of a craft sits above the 
warden &c., 194/1159. 

Master of the Rolls, rank of, 186 
/1017 ; 188/1060. 

Masters, duties of, p. 63 ; 353/6. 

Master's goods, spare them, 34/ 
6 ; 332/9. , 

Master's wife, your duty to your, 
IL 23/87. 

Mastic, to be chewed before you 
rest, p. 253. 



o2 



100 



INDEX. 



Maistirs of the Chaimcery, rank 

of, 187/1027 ; 189/1068. 
Mawes, 300/55, mocks; 309/ 

341. 
Mawgre, 49/47, ill will. Fr. nuxl 

gre. 
Mawmeny, recipe for, p. 63. 
Maydelyne gynger, 126/132. 
Mayor of Calais, 186/1020 ; 188 

1064. 
Mayor of London, 186/1014; 

188/1051. 

Mays, 316/533, makes. 

Mead, p. 223. 

Meals, 3 a day to be eaten, p. 
251 ; only 2 a day, p. 257. 

Measure is treasure, 344/477. 

Mcde, 303/135, reward ; for no 
Jcyn mede, on no account what- 
ever. 

Meddle not, 91/339 ; 97/537. 

Medelus (meddlesome), don't be 
too, p. 9, p. 12, line M. 

Medicinable bath, how to make, 
p. 183-5. 

Meek, be, 103/775. 

Meek, don't be too, like a fool, 
304/179. 

Meene, 1 2/9, mean, middle course ; 
keep it, 34/24. See Moderation. 

Melle, 19/56, mix, meddle. 

Men must work, 19/31. 

Men6, smaller, 319/604, lower 
officers of the household. 

Menewes in sewe of porpas, 280/ 
. 6 ; in porpas, 281/35. 
Menske, 300/32, civility; 306/ 

234, favour. 
Menskely, 307/291, moderately. 

Menuce, 171/819 ; menuse, 168/ 

747, minnows. 
Meny, 21/88, household. 



Merchants, duty of; 354/14 ; 
rank of, 187/1037 ; 189/1071. 

Merlynge, 155/558, the fish whit- 
ing; 173/834; 280/31. 

Mermaid, p. 233. 

Merry, be, before bed-time, p. 244. 

Meriy, don't be too, p. 9, p. 12, 

line M. 
Mertenet, 153/542 ; p. 214, the 

martin ; Mertenettes, 165/706. 

Mertinet, 144/437 ; p. 21, martin. 
Mess, each, at dinner, to be 
booked at 6d., 312/413. 

Mess, who may sit 2 or 3 at a, 
188/1055 ; who 3 or 4, L 
1057 ; who 4 and 4, L 1066. 

Message, when sent on, how to 
behave, p. 348, cap. viiL ; IL 
23/92. 

Mesurable, 56/36, moderate. 

Mesurabli, p. 12, Lf, moderate. 
Mesurably, Mensurate {mode- 
rate). Prompt. 

Mesure, 47/204; 124/107, moder- 
ation. 

Metely, 177/890, meet^ fitting. 

Metes, 174/845, fish. 

Methe, 171/817, mead. 

Metheglin, p. 223. 

Metis, 124/95, vegetables; ib, L 
101, food. 

Michaelmas to Chrismas, feasts 
firom, p. 278. 

Milk, 124/93. 'Vin8urlaict,c'egt 
souhait ; laict sur vtUj c'ed 
venin' Prov. Milke before 
wine, I would twere mine; 
milke taken after, is poisons 
daughter. Cot u. SouJiait 

Milk, II. 40/87; IL 46/159; 
operation of, IL 50/232. 

Minnows, p, 220 ; 280/6. 



INDEX* 



101 



MUereatur^ to be learnt, 303/ 
154. 

Mistresses to work themselves, 
41/116. 

Misty, a^y., 178/911. 

Mock no man, 100/661. 

Mocker, don't be a, 19/59. 

Moderation, 47/204 ; 124/107 ; 
267/5 ; in feeding, 58/59. See 
Mesure. cp. p. 104 of the Old 
English Homilies, ed. Morris, 
1868. 'Brutes eat as soon as 
they get it, but the wise man 
shall have times set apart for 
his meals, and then in reason 
keep to his regimen.' 

Modus Cenandi, II. p. 34. 

Mole, scratches its limbs, II. 26/ 
15. 

Mood, 38/42, temper, passion. 

Morning prayer, p. 337. 

Morter, 182/968, bed-candle ; 
283/62; 315/503, a kind of 
candle used as a night-light. 
Morter, a Mortariurrtj a light 
or taper set in churches, to 
bum possibly over the graves 
or shrines of the dead. Cowel. 
Qu. if not a cake of wax used 
for that purpose. Note in Brit. 
Mus. copy of Hawkins's Hist 
of Music, ii. 294. 

Miortrowes, 151/520; 170/805; 
172/827. 

Morfcrus, 278/31. 

Motes, 132/236; 134/272, bits 
of dust, &c. 

Moths in clothes, p. 231, last 
line. 

Mought, flesche-, 134-280, flesh- 
moth, louse. * Mowjto, clothe 
wyrme (mouhe, mow, mowghe), 
Tinea ; Mought that eateth 
clothes, Hers de drap^ Pals- 



grave ; A.S. modde. Prompt. 

Moughtes, 180/945 ; p. 224, 
moths. 

Mouth, dirty, don't drink with, 
II. 4/35; II. 7/39; II. 12/ 
100; IT. 17/25. 

Mouth, don't eat on both sides 
of, 301/65. 

Mouth, drink not with a full, 6/ 
149 ; nor speak, 6/152 ; II. 4 
/37 ; II. 12/86 ; II. 17/31 ; 
II. 32/22. 

Mouth, wipe it before drinking, 
6/155. 

Mowes (faces), don't make, 28, 
29/29. Fr. * Monnoye de Singe. 
Moes, mumps, mouthes ; also, 
friskes, leaps, gamboUs. . . . 
Mopping, mumping, mowing; 
also friskes, gambolls, tumbling 
tricks.' Cotgrave. 

Mowynge, 29/29 ; 135/291 ; mak- 
ing faces m derision, grimac- 
ing ; * mowe or skome,' vangia 
vel valgta, Pr. Parv. 

Mullet, 174/841, 850; 280/13; 
II. 40/83 ; II. 44/125. 

Mulus, a searfish, p. 235. 

Muscadelle, 125/118; p. 205, 
no. 6 ; 267/21, a sweet wine. 

Musclade of almonds, 171/821 ; 
in wortes, 171/821; 281/34; 
of minnows, 166/719. 

Muscles (fish), 171/819 ; p. 223 ; 
p. 232. 

Musculade, 280/6 ; 281/34. 

Musculus, the cocke of balena, p. 
235. 

Music, hear, II. 54/302. 

Mustard, 164/686 ; p. 216 ; 170/ 
796; 174/843; 273/33. 

Mustard and sugar, the sauce for 
pheasants, &c., 152/538. 



102 



INDEX 



Mustard for brawn, &c., 152/ 
633 ; with fish, 175/853 ; with 
salt fish, 164/557; 173/832; 
with salmon, II. 44/129. 

Mustela, the see-wesyll, p. 235. 

Mutton, 164/688 ; p. 221 ; II. 
36/45; II. 42/116. *The 
moton boyled is of nature and 
complexion sanguyne, the 
whiche, to my jugement, is 
holsome for your grace.* Du 
Guezy p. 1071. 

Mutton, salt, to be eaten with 
mustard, 152/533 ; stewed, 
170/798 ; with sage or thyme, 
IL 42/113. 

Mutton, loin of, how to carve, 
141/393. 

Mylet, 167/735, mullet 

Myllewelle, the fish, 154/566; 
166/723. 

Myfl, 321/666, less. 

Mynce, p. 265, carve. 

Mynse, 142/400, mince. 

Mysloset, 305/208, ?migpraised 
or misgoing, misleading. 

Mystere, 321/639, crafty service. 

Nails to be clean, 16/10 ; 28, 29/ 
22; 134/270; IL 7/19; IL 
8/6; IL 16/3; IL 30/16. 

Kails, don't pare at table, 75/139. 

Nails, pare 'em, IL 3/3; IL 8/5; 
IL 26/12. 

Kails, pick not at meals, 6/150. 

Kails to be kept from blackness, 
28, 29/49. 

Kape in the neck, the cony's to 
be cut out, 145/455. 

Kape, 321/659, tablecloth, 

Kaper^, 321/642, napry, table- 
cloths and linen ; /656 table- 
cloth. 



Kapery, 120/61. 

Kapkin, don't twist it np, IL 3/ 
23; n. 18/37. 

Kature, all soups not made by, 
are bad, 151/523. 

Keckweed, p. 240, a hempen 
halter. 

Keck-towel, 129/194 ; p. 208 ; to 
wipe knives on, 323/727. 

Keghe," 300/25, eye. 

Keeze, 293/61, sneeze. 

Keighbour^s fine dress, don't 
mock at your, 43/147, 

Keighbours, love your, 44/161. 

Kereids, p. 235 ; p. 231. 

Kesche, 161/644, tender; 183/ 
985, soft 

Kewfangled, don't be, p. 9, lino 
K; 61/115. 

Kews-caniers to be reproved, p. 
64. 

Kice, 149/508, foolish. 

Kice, don't be too, p. 9, p. 12, 
line K. 

Kight-cap to be of scarlet stuff, p. 
245 ; must have a hole in the 
top, to let the vapour out, p. 
253. 

Kight-gown, 315/483. 

Ko fixed time for meals, p. 257. 

Noble Lyfe and Natures of Man, 
^c.y by Laurens Andrewe, p. 
229, Ac. 

Koblemen to be gentle, 93/405. 

Kod your head into- the candle, 
don't, 66/27. 

Kombles, 151/521 ; see Promp- 
torium, p. 360, note 1. 

Kombles of a dere, 273/29, 
entrails, from umbUicm. 

Koon, dinner at, 5/1 28« 



INDEX. 



103 



Iforture, give your heart to it, 26, 

27/5. 

Nose, clean it in the morning, 
73/70. 

Nose, don't blow it at table, 80/ 
335 ; or on your dinner napkin, 
14/53; 78/261. 

Nose, don't blow it loudly at 
table, 11. 18/59 ; don't blow it 
with your hand at table, IL 
32/29 ; when you blow it on 
your fingers, wipe 'em, 301/90. 

Nose, don't pick it, 26, 27/12; 
IL 30/5; at meals, 6/150; at 
table, 18/38. 

Nose not to be wiped, 25/141 ; 
not to be wiped on your cap, 
Ac, 292/47-52. 

Nose-napkin, 338/94. 

Nottys, 122/78 ; p. 201, nuts. 

Nowelte, 169/784, novelty. 

Nowne, 301/87, own. 

Nurrieris, 187/1039; p. 226. 

Nurture, 161/651, correct way. 

Nurture makes a man, 14/34, 30 ; 
needful for every one, 299/4. 

Nurtured, pray to be, 5/117. 

Nuts, 266/19, 20. 

Nyen, 302/116, eyes. 

Oaths, hate 'em, p. 9, p. 12, line 
0. 

Oats, green, in a bath, 185/995. 

Ob. 320/620, pence. 

Obedient, servants to be, p. 329, 
No. vi. 

Obstinacy is foUy, 85/113. 

Office, don't bear, 49/42. 

Office, 324/738, mark of office ? 

Office, house of, 66/11; p. 114, 
note. 

Officers in Lords' courts, 309/327, 



Officers, their duty, 354/19. 

Officers of shires, cities, and 
boroughs, their ranks to be 
understood, 192/1130-2. 

Onions with salt lamprey, 156/ 
569 ; p. 214. 

Onone, 318/591, anon, at once. 

Open-clawed birds to be cooked 
like a capon, 278/23. 

Opon, 318/580, up inl, about, 
over. 

Opponents, answer them meekly, 
308/311. 

Orchun, a sea-monster, p. 236. 

Order in speech, keep, 347/696. 

Orders of chastity and poverty, 
monks, rank of, 187/1030. 

Orped, p. 12, 1. O, daring ; orpud 
avdaXy bellipotens. Pr. Parv. 

Oiyent (jeUy), 168/746, bright. 

Osey, 267/1 9 ; p. 206, asweet wine. 

Osprey, how to carve, 142/402 ; 

p. 211. 
Osulle, 144/438, the blackbird. 
Ouemast, 322/671, uppermost. 
Ouer-goon, 40/97, get over, 

deceive. 

Ouerjjwart (don't be), p. 9, p. 12, 
L 0; Fr. Pervera^ peruerse, 
crosse, aukeward, ouerthwart^ 
skittish, froward, vntoward. 
Cot. 

Oyster, p. 236. 

Oysters in ceuy (chive sauce), 
171/822, and grauey ; 281/34. 

Ox ; he is a companionable 
beast, p. 221. 

Oxen, three in a plough never 
draw well, 307/287. 

Ozey. 125/119; p. 206, No. 10, 
a sweet wine. 

Page, the King's, 191/1123. 



104 



INDEX. 



Pagrug, a fish, p. 236. 
Pale, 267/16, grow pale? 

Palettis, 313/435, pallets, beds of 
straw or rushes. 

Palled, 129/183, stale, dead 

Panter, 322/667. 

Pantere, 119/40; pantrer, 312/ 
405, 425 ; originally the keeper 
. and cutter-up of bread, see his 
duties, p. 120 j * Panetier, a 
Pantler.' Cot. His duties, to 
lay the bread, knives, &c., 322/ 
667. 

Panter and butler, p. 330, No. 
xii. 

Pantry, 315/499. 

Paraunce, heiers 'of, 315/497, 
heirs apparent. 

Parelle, 139/343, *the tho>er 
parte ' in Sloane MS. 1315. 

Parents' blessing, ask it every 
morning, 73/95; their curse, 
dread it, 73/89. 

Parents, don't answer them, 72/ 
45. 

Parents, duties of, p. 63. 

Parents, salute them, 338/71 ; 
341/294 ; wait on 'em at table, 
342/337. *What man he is 
your father, you ought to make 
courtesye to hym aU though 
you shulde mete hym twenty 
tymes a daye.' Palsgrave, ed. 
1852, p. 622, col. 1. 

Paris, candles of, 327/836. 

Parish priests, rank of, 187/1032. 

Parker, 318/589 ; 319/599, park- 
keeper. 

Parsley roots, 1 72/826. 

Parsley, 282/1 ; II. 44/138. 

Parsons, the duty of, 354/10; 
rank of, 187/1031 ; 189/1069. 

Partridge, 165/697 ; p. 219 j how 



to carve, 141/397 ; 143/417 ; 
or wynge, p. 275. 

Partridge, with mustard and 
sugar, 152/538. 

Passage, 1 49/507, ? passage 
through the bowels, or passing 
out of the world. 

Past, 326/773, pasty. 

Pastey of venison, Ac., 147/490. 

Pasties, IL 38/52. 

Pasty, lamprey, 160/631 ; p. 216. 

Patentis, 318/566, letters patent^ 
grants, gifts by deed. 

Paternoster, 303/145. 

Patience, the fruits of, 349/82L 

Pavilowne, 189/1079, pavilion, 
tent. 

Pay your debts, 52/125. 

Payne puff, 148/497, a kind of 
pie, 165/699 ; 271/7 ; 277/32. 

Peaceable with all men, be, IL 
17/30. 

Peacock in hakille ryally, 165/ 
695 ; p. 219. 

Peacock, 144/433; IL 42/119; 
peacock and tail, 271/5. 

Pearl-muscle, the, p. 233. 

Pearl-oyster, p. 236. 

Pearls from your nose, do not 
drop, 134/283. 

Pears, 168/757; 171/813; 172/ 
826; 266/19; IL 46/158. 
* Apres la poire, le vin ou le 
prestre. Piov. After a (cold) 
Peare, either drinke wine to 
concoct it, or send for the 
Priest to confesse you.' Cot- 
grave. 

Peas and bacon, 141/392 ; 150/ 
518. 

Peautre, 267/28, pewter ; cp. 
Margaret Paston's Letter, Dec, 
between 1461 and 1466, 



INDEX. 



105 



modernized ed. 1841, v. 1, p. 
159. ' Also, if ye be at home 
this Christmas, it were well 
done ye should do purvey a 
garnish or twain of petcter 
vessell, two basins and two 
ewers, and twelve candlesticks, 
for ye have too few of any of 
these to serve this place.' 
Orig. ed. vol. iv. p. 107, Letter 
zxx. 

Pece, 326/792, cup. 

Peck of oats a day for a horse, 
319/608. 

Pecocke of the se, p. 236. 

Pecten, a fish that winks, p. 236. 

Peeres, 122/78, 80, pears. 

P^yll sauce, 279/4 ; p. 288. A 
malard of the downghyll ys 
good y-nogh for me wyihe 
plesaunt pyklcy or yt ys elles 
poyson, perde. Piers of Full- 
ham, 1. 196-7. E. Pop. P. voL 
2, p. 9. 

PeUitory, 11. 44/137. 

Pelys, p. 60, of a baker*s peel or 
oven-pole. 

Pen, paper, and ink, to be taken 
to school, 339/116. 

Pentecost to Midsummer, feasts 
from, p. 277. 

Pepper, 174/843, eaten with beef 
and goose, 152/536. 

Pepper sauce, eaten with what, 
. 11. p. 44 ; see Notes, II. p. 59. 

Pepyns, 122/79 ; p. 201, pippins. 
Fr. pepin-percif (The name of) 
a certaine drie sweet apple. 
Cot 

Percely, 282/1, parsley. 

Perceue, 178/917, look to, see. 

Perch, 172/824 ; II. 40/84 ; 174/ 
850; IL 44/131. 



Perch {percus)^ p. 236. 

Perch in jeUy, 166/707; 168/ 
746; 271/9; 280/16. 

Perche, 126/128; 127/146, sus- 
pended mune or rod. 

Perche, to hang cloths on, 266/14. 

Perche for ypocras strainers, 267/ 
26. 

Percher, 182/968, a kind of 
candle. 

Perchers, 314/467 ; Perchoures, 
283/32; 327/826, candles, 
lights. 

Per-crucis, the, 303/152. 
Peregalle, 186/1010, quite equal. 

Pereles, 198/1231, peerless, with- 
out equal 

Pericles, the advice of, 350/891. 

Peritory, 183/991. 

Perueys, or pemeys, 148/499 ; p, 
212, a sweet pie. 

Peson, 153/547. 

Peson and porpoise, good potage, 
166/720. 

Pessene, 280/23, peason, pease- 
broth? 

Pestelles, 278/1 1,28, legs. Pestle 
is a hock, Fr. Faucille (in a 
horse), the bought or pestle of 
the thigh. Cot. 

Pestilence, silk and skins not to 
be worn during, p. 255. 

Petipetes, or pety-pettys, p. 148, 
note'; L 499, note >. 'Peti- 
petes^ are Pies made of Carps 
and Eels first roasted, and then 
minced, and with Spices made 
up in Pies.' R. Holme. 

Petticote, p. 69, last lina 

Petycote, 176/872 ; 177/891 ; 
282/22, 30. Handle Holme, 
Bk III., chap. ii. § xxvii., p. 19, 



106 



INDEX. 



coL 1, says, ' He beareth 
Argenl^ a Semeare, Gules ; 
Sleeves faced or turned up, Or 
Petty-Coat Azure ; the skirt or 
bottom Laced, or Lnbrauthered 
of the third. This is a kind of 
loose Garment without, and 
stiffe Bodies under them, & 
was a great fashion for Women 
about the year 1676. Some 
call them Mantua's ; they have 
very short Sleeves, nay, some 
of the Gallants of the times, 
have the Sleeves gathered up 
to the top of the Shoulders 
and there stayed, or fastned 
with a Button and Loope, or 
set with a rich Jewel.' He 
gives a drawing of it two pages 
before, 

Petycote of scarlet over the skirt, 
p. 247. 

Pety peruaunt, 148/note»; 212/ 

Pety perueis, 166/707; 168/ 
748. 

Petyperuys, 271/9. 

Pewter basons, 267/28. 

Peynt, 51/105 ; Fr. pdndre, to 
counterfeit. Cot. 

Pheasant, how to carve, 143/417 ; 
to alaye or carve, p. 275. 

Pheasant to be cooked dry, and 
eaten with ginger, 278/17 ; 
with mustard and sugar, 152/ 
538. 

Pheaaant stewed, 164/688 : p. 
217. 

Phlebotomy, II. 46/162. 

Pick not your nose, teeth, or 

nails, 6/150; 134/283. See 

Kose, &c. 

Pick not your teeth with your 
knife, 28, 29/42; TL 3/17; 



n. 7/27 ; n. 19/66. 

Pick yourself, don't, 27/14. 

Pick your teeth with a knife, or 
fingers, don't, 78/245. 

Pie, how to carve a, 147/482. 

Pie, 325/773. 

Piece, the best, don't cut for 
yourself, 77/213. 

Pig, how to carve, 144/446 ; 164 
/689; roast, 170/801; suck- 
ing, II. 36/47 ; II. 50/210. 

Pig and ginger sauce, 152/537. 

Pig's feet, 275/9. 

Pig's snout ; a servant should 
have one, 11. 21/48 ; IL 22/ 
56. See notes to rart IL p. 58. 

Pigeon, 144/438; baked, 147/ 
491 ; roast, 170/808. 

Pight, 192/1 134, placed. 

Pigmies, p. 218, note. 

Pike, 166/724; p. 235; 173/ 
839; IL 40/84; IL 44/131; 
how to carve, 155/562 ; p. 
280, last line. 

Pike, coHce of, 172/824. 

Pike, names of a, p. 215. 

Pike not your nose, 134/283. 

Pilgrimages vowed, to be per- 
formed, 305/201. 

PiUow, 179/925 ; 182/965. 

Piment, 267/22, a sweet wine. 
See Notes to Kussell, p. 202-4. 

Pincemartus, 312/422-3, butler. 

Pinions indigestible, 140/363. 

Pinna, a fish, p. 236. 

Pippins, 166/713; 266/25. 

Pistor, 320/622-3, the baker. 

Plaice, p. 2.36; how to carve, 
156/570; 281/3. 

Plaice with wine, 173/839. 



INDEX. 



107 



Planer, 120/58, (ivory) smoother 
(for salt) ; 266/9. 

Platere, 142/408; plater, 160/ 
633, platter. 

Play the man, 84/76. 

Playes, 326/818, folds. 

Pleasantly talk, II. 54/295. ': 

Pliant servants get on, 85/129. 

PUjt, 132/242, fold. 

Plite, 144/434, manner. 

Plommys, 122/77, plums. 

Plover, 152/539; p. 213; 165/ 
697 ; p. 272, last line, 279/1. 

Seththe sche brou^t hom in 

haste 
Ploverys poudryd in paste. 
Sir Degrevant, p. 235, L 1402. 

Plover, how to carve, 143/417; 
to mynce or carve, p. 277. 

Plummets of lead, 247/4. 

Plums, 162/668; 266/20; IL 
46/158. 

Plyed, 322/690, folded. 

Plyte, 269/31, plait. 

Points, truss your masters, 70/ 
3. To ims8 . . the points 
was to tie the laces which sup- 
ported the hose or breeches. 
Nares. 

Polippus, a fish, p. 233, p. 236. 

Pommander, p. 257, a kind of 
perfume made up in a ball and 
worn about the person. See 
recipes in Halliwell's Gloss. 

Poor, help them, 44/170 ; loathe 
them not, 37/19 ; think of 
them first, IL 6/6 ; 10/16 ; II. 
26/7 ; give meat to them, IL 
32/39 ; IL 30/17 ; visit them, 
66/45. 

Poor, leavings to go to the, II. 
38/61. 



Poor men, to be good, 101/681 ; 
their duty, 354/17. 

Poor wife, better than a rich one, 
60/76-80; 51/93-6. 

Pope has no peer, 186/1006 ; 
188/1045 ; his father or mother 
is not equal to him, 190/1097- 
1104. 

Pork, 278/12, 28, 30, 32; IL 
36, 45 ; II. 46/154 ; nourishes, 
IL 50/207. 

Porpoise, 157/582; 171/823; p. 
213, note on L 533. 

Porpoise, fresh, 174/849 ; salt, 
154/548; 173/835; 280/25. 

Portenaunce, 275/9, belongings, 
an animal's intestines. Pals- 
grave (in HaUiwell). 

Porter at the gate, 299/6; to 
have the longest wand, 309/ 
355 ; his duties and perquisites, 
p. 310. 

Port-payne, 133/262 ; p. 209 ; a 
cloth for carrying bread. Cp. 
* fen brede he brynges, in 
towelle wrythyn,' 322/685 ; 
cp. 325/784. 

Possate, 124/94 ; p. 201 ; posset, 
266/33. 

Post, don't lean against it, 4/82 ; 
26/9 ; 27/10 ; 308/325. 

Post, don't make it your staff, IL 
30/4. 

Potege, 150/516-17; p. 213; 
165/693; 168/745 ; 172/829; 
273/30 ; 278/10, 13. 

Potage to be served after brawn, 
164/687 ; p. 218 ; to be served 
first, IL 36/42. 'physicionsben 
of opynyon that one ought to 
begyn the meate of vitayle 
(utandes liguides) to thendc 
that by that means to gyve 
direction to the remenant.' 



108 



INDEX. 



1^32-3. Giles du Guez's /n/ro- 
ductorie, e<L 1852, p. 1071. 

Potage, effect of, H. 48/181 ; 
how assayed, 325/765 ; how to 
be supped, 344/443-50 ; to be 
supped quietly, 301/70 ; eat it 
with a spoon, don't sup it, 6/ 
144; put bread into it, 76/195. 

Potage on fiast-day, IL 40/82. 

Potelle, 127/1 48,a liquid measure. 

Potestate, 178/9 1 5, man of power, 
noble. 

Ponder, 281/16,1 ginger or pepper. 

Poudre, 278/22, 1 giitger, see L 
19. 

Poudres, 277/17, spices 1 

Po.wche, 149/501, 1 poached-egg, 
p. 212, 165/700. 

Powder, 158/589, 597 ; 1 salt & 
spice, 159/620. The Forme of 
Cwry mentions *powdour fort^' 
p. 15, p. 24, and ' powdour 
douce,' p. 12, p. 14, p. 25. 
Pegge, Pre£ xxix., ' I take 
potcder ' douce to be either 
powder of galyngal (for see 
Editor's MS. II. 20, 24 ;) or 
a compound made of sundry 
aromatic spices ground or beaten 
small, and kept always ready 
at hand in some proper recepta- 
cle. It is otherwise termed 
good powders, 83. 130, and in 
Editor's MS. 17. 37. 38 (but 
see the next article,) or powder 
simply No. 169. 170. (p. 76), 
and p. 103, No. xxxv.' 

Powder, 156/573, % not sprinkle 
verb, but brine or salt sb. 

Powders for sauce, 142/412. 

Powdred, 152/533; p. 213, salted. 
Cotgrave has * Piece de lab- 
oureur sal6. A peece of pow- 
dered beefe. Salant . . salt- 



ing ; powdering or seasoning 
with salt. Chamier, 9l ponder- 
ing tub. Saliere . . a salt^seller, 
also, a j90fr£2enn</ house.' 'Item 
that theire be no White Salt 
[see p. 30] occupied in my 
liordis Hous withowt it be for 
the Pantre, or /or eastyng upon 
meit, or for seasonynge of 
meate.' North. Hotts, Book, p. 
57. The other salt was the ^ay- 
/So/ttofp. 32. ' Poudred EaleA 
or Lamprons 1 mess. 12d.' 
H. Ord. p. 175. 

Powdur, 173/838; 174/847, 
1 blanche powder. Fr. ^Pouldre 
blanche, A powder compounded 
of Ginger, Cinnamon, and Nut- 
megs ; much in vse among 
Cookes.' Cotgrave. 

Powt not, 135/294. 

Praised, when, rise up 'and return 
thanks, 4/104. 

Praising (flattering), don't be, p. 
10, p. 12, line P. 

Pray, p. 253, 256; on rising, 
48/20 ; 73/65. 

Prayer, morning, p. 337 ; evening, 

p. 352. 
Prayer, the best, 5/117-19. 

Prayers to be said, p. 251. 

Precedence, the degrees o^ p. 
186-94 ; p. 226. 

Prechoure of pardon ; rank of 
one, 187/1028; 189/1069. 

Precious stone, to be worn in a 
ring, p. 257. 

Preket, 315/510, 1 not a spike to 
stick a light on, but a kind of 
candle. See note * on 327/825. 
One of the said groomes of the 
privy chamber to carry to the 
chaundrie all the remaine of 
morters, torches, quarries, ^ncA;- 



INDEX. 



109 



ettsy wholly and intirely, with- 
oute imbeaseling or purloyning 
any parte thereo£ H, Ord. p. 
167. 

Prelate to be allowed to say grace, 
11. 9/19. 

Prelates 353/3. 

Press up among the gentlefolk, 
don% 13/25. 

Press not too high, 28, 29/25, 
74/134. 

Prest, 144/434; preste, 5/115; 
ready. 

Prestly, 178/910, readily. 
Presume not, 91/345. 

Price of things, don't talk o^ II. 
28/21. 

Pricks, Pre£ p. ci.-ciii ; Sp. fiSl, 
the pinne set at huts or pricks 
which archers measure to. 
Minsheu. 

Pride, don't ruin your husband 
through, 45/175. 

Priest, don't blame him, 306/244. 

Primate of England, 189/1082. 

Prince, rank of a, 186/1009. 

Princes & dukes, don't be privy 
with them, p. 10, p. 12, line P. 

Princes, the duty of, 353/L 

Prior of a Cathedral, 186/1015; 
simple, 1. 1016; 188/1059; 
the ranks of. 

Priors of Canterbury & Dudley 
not to mess together, 193/ 
1145-8. 

Private dinners and suppers not 
to be allowed, p. 331, Ko. xviL 

Privehouse, 179/931, privy (to be 
kept clean). 

Privy members not to be exposed, 
136/305 ; 295/141 ; or clawed, 
135/286. 



Privy seat, cover it with green 
cloth, 283/21. 

Promises, keep your, 19/48 ; 98/ 
601. 

Pronounce distinctly, 75/161. 

Property, the diiferenee it makes 
in the way men of the same 
rank are to be treated, p. 192-3. 

Prothonat, p. 284; prothonotary, 
188/1063. 

Prouande, 31^/605; provender, 
forage, for horses, used in L 608 
for oats. 

Proud men; beat 'em, don't rebuke 
'em, 96/501. 

Prove and then choose, 92/379. 

Prove your friend, 102/717. 

Provyncialle, 186 / 1021 ; 188/ 
1062 ; t governor of a province. 

Prow, 22/86, advantage, duty, 
the correct ihing to do. 

Prowe, 132/236; advantage. 

Ptowl not for fleshmoths in your 
head, 134/280. 

Puff not, 136/303. 

PuUets, p. 278, last line ; II. 44/ 
123. 

Pulter, 318/581. Pr. Poidlaaier, 
a Poulter or keeper of pullaine. 
Cot. 

Purge your bowels before a ban- 
quet^ II. 34/19. 

Purpayne, 270/11. iSfecPort-payne. 

Purpose, 166 / 720, porpoise ; 
roasted on coals, 166/724. 

Purveyde, p. 3, L 71, provided 
beforehand. 

Pyment, 125/118 ; p. 203, No. 
4 ; p. 202, a sweet wine. 

Pyndynge, 149/507, tormenting, 
torturing, A.8. pinan. 

Pyntill, a whelk's, 160/625. 



no 



INDEX. 



Quail, to ^wynge or carve, p. 276. 

Quails, 144/437; 153/544; p. 
214; 165/706. 

Quarelose, p. 12, L Q, querulous; 
Quarel, or querel, or playnt^ 
Querela. Prompt. 

QuareU (square) of a glasae wyn- 
dowe, p. 247, last Ime. 

Quarrel, don't begin one, 84/65. 

Queder, 323/716, whether of two ; 
neuer fe queder, never mind 
which of the two 1 

Queeme, p. 12, L Q ; A.S. cweman, 
to please. 

Quelmes, 323/703, covers. 

Queneborow, the Mayor of, not to 
be put beside the Mayor of 
London, 192/1138. 

Quere, 322/693, circle 1 

Questions, three, to ask your 
companions, 308/299. 

Quesy, 1 Sp. queso, cheese. 

Queynt, don't be, p. 10, p. 12, 
1. 2. 

Quibibs, p. 53. *Cubebs. Qud- 
periurOy a quybybe, Nominale 
M,S: HalliwelL 

Quick in serving, be, 30, 31/61. 

Quinces, 172/826 ; baked, 166/ 
708 ; in sirup, 282/1. 

Quosshyns, 179/924, cushions. 

Qweche, 308/301, who, what 

Qwestis (inquisitions, inquiries), 
V don't go on bad ones, 49/50 

. Qwyle, 312/431, while. 

Qwysshenes, 3 1 4/456, cushions for 
a bed, 1 pillows. 

Qwyte, 323/701, white. 

Rabettes sowkers, 145/457; p. 
211, 165/697, sucking rabbits. 
Rack for horses, 319/610. 



Rage not too mnch^ 10/17 ; p. 
12, L R. 

Rage, p. 15, L 76, break bounds, 
riot 

Rain, don't stay from church for, 
36/12. 

Rain, the peacock's ciy a token o^ 
p. 219, note on Peacock. 

Rain water most wholesome, IL 
52/260. 

Raisins, 266/21. 

Rakke, 125/115, rake, go, move, 
Sw. racka, to stretch or reach 
to. Wedgwood, u. rake. 

Rash and reckless, be not, 135/ 
296. 

Raspise, 125/118; p. 204; raspys, 
267/21, a sweet wine. 

RatheU, 41/105, quickly; A.S. 
ArcE*, swift, quick ; hroMtc^ 
quick, active. 

Raw fruits are bad, 124/97 ; 266 

/35. 
Raw meat, don't eat, 54/10. 
Ready to serve, always be, 5/ 

110, 115. 
Raynes, towaile of, 130/213 ; p. 

208. Rennes, in Brittany. 

What avayleth now my 

feather bedds soft 1 
Sheets of Raynes, long, large, 

and wide. 
And dyvers de vyses of clothes 
chaynged oft 
Metrical Vwiom, by Geoige 
Cavendish, in his Life of 
Wolsey, ed. Singer, iL 17. 

•In ^> Degrevard the cloths 
are * Towellys of Eylyssham, 
Whyjth as the seeys fame,' 
225/1385. 

Reason, be ruled by, 332/2 ; 346 

/627. 



INDEX. 



Ill 



Beason ill used, woe to, 89/263. 

Bebels in court to be arrested, 
311/382. 

Reboyle, 124/110; 125/113; p. 

202 ; 267/9, fennent and 

bubble out of a cask. 
Beboyle, 124/115, fennentation. 

Rebuke, be content with, 90/ 

285. 
Rechy, 139/359, Icausing belches. 

Receiver of rents, forfeits, ^., 
the, 318/575, 587; his duties, 
p. 319. 

Receyte, 268/17, sediment, dr^gs. 

Receytes, 149/508, takings-in, 
stuffing themselves with choice 
dishes. 

Red-fleshed fish bad for sick 
people, 11. 50/219. 

Red landlord or landlady, don't 
go to any, 308/307. 

Red wyne, properties of, 126/ 
140. 

Redress things amiss, 97/539. 

Refet, 281/8, fish entrails, roe, &c. 

Refett^ 156/576; p. 215; Iroe, 
173/839 ; p. 224. 

Regardes, 168/756, things to 
look at 

Rehete, 7/171 ; Fr. rehaiter, to 
reuiue, reioyce, cheere vp ex- 
ceedingly. Cotgrave; 'ranimer, 
r^jouir, refaire.' Buiguy. 

Rekles, richelees, 26, 27/6, care- 
less. 

Remelant, dOO/52, remnant 

Removing from castle to castle, 
310/373. 

Remyssailes, 28/48, 1 pieces put 
on ; Fr. remeitre, to commit or 
put vnto. Cot 

Renners, 126/127, strainers; 267 
/27 ; 268/15. 



Renysshe wine, 267/20, Rhenish. 
Sche brou3the hem Vemage 
and Crete, 

And wyne of the Reyne^ 
L 1704. 
And evere sche drow hem 

the wyn, 
Bothe the Roche and the 
Reyn, 
And the good Mulvesyn, 
L 1415. 
Sir Degrevant^ Thornton Ro- 
mances. 

Repairs of castles, &c., the Re- 
ceiver sees to, 319/601. 

Repeat gossip and secrets, don% 
15/78. 

Reply, don't, 96/497. 

Replye, 321/661, fold back. 

Reprove no man, 15/67. 

Rere, p. 265, carve; 324/754, 
raise, lift up. 

Rere or late suppers, avoid, 50/ 
66. 

Rere, 50/66, late ; see Hymns to 
Virgin^ Ac., Pref. p. xL, and 

70/379. 

Rere suppers, 56/26. 
Rerynge, 142/399, cutting. 
Resayue, 318/575, receive. 
Resceuy 317/542, received, 

Residencers, rank of, 189/1069. 

Rest after food, II. 34/8, 16. 

Resty, 139/359, mouldy, as rusty 
bacon, wheat, &<;., 272/6. 

Retch not, 134/271. 

Revelling, don't be, 10/17; p. 
12, 1. R 

Revengeful, don't be, 10/20 ; p. 
12, 1. v.; 56/34; 92/373. 

Reverence thy fellows, 30, 31/ 
67. 

Rewarde, 312/421, 418, name of 



112 



INDEX. 



the second supply of bread at 
table. 

Eewe, 51/112, make to repent^ 
cause to be sorry ; A.S. hredvh 
aUy to rue, repent ; hredvoian^ 
to feel grieved, be sorry for. 

Eeynes, 269/14. See Eaynes. 

Beynes, a kercher of, 283/28. 

Eeyse, p. 272, last line, cut off; 
273/14. *how many bestis ber- 
ith lether, and how many skyn 1 
AUe that be . . arracies, that 
is to say, the skyn pullyd ovyr 
the bed, beryth skyn.* Twety, 
in Eel, Ani,, I 152. 

Beysons, 121/74, raisins. 

Khodes*s account of himself, p. 
71. 

Rhodesia Bohe of Nurture^ p. 61- 
114. 

Rialte, 176/858, royalty, courtly 
customs) 

Eibaldiy, avoid, 15/76 ; don't 
talk, 28, 29/44. 

Bice, standing and liquid, 172/ 
827-8 ; standing, 282/2. 

Bich men not to keep poor tables, 
IL 36/37. 

Bich, their duty, 354/16. 

Bich wives to treat their neigh- 
bours, 44/168. 

Biches, don't choose a wife for, 
51/95. 

Bight handy the carver's, not to 
touch the food, 138/327. 

Bight shoulder after your better^s 
back, 15/85. 

Bight side, sleep on it firsts p. 
245 j IL 52/247. 

Bighteousness, the reward of, 
304/181. 

Biotous, don't be, 10/17 ; p. 12, 
LB. 



Bise when your lord gives joa 
his cup, 5/120. 

Bise early, 17/11; 338/58; IL 
21/37 ; at 6 A.M., 72/61. 

Bising, what to do on, p. 246, 
249 ; IL 52/242. 

Biver-fish good for the sick, IL 
50/221. 

Biver-birda, p. 279. * And all 
foules (uolatiUes) and byrdes 
of water {riuiirea)^ as bea 
swannes, gese, malardes, teales, 
herons, bytters (butorsjy and 
all suche byrdes ben of nature 
melancolyke, lesse nevertheleese 
rosted then boyled.' Du Chiez^ 
p. 107L 

Biver water in sauce, 152/540. 

Boach, 156/574; p. 214; 174/ 
841,849; IL 40/84; H. 44/ 
130. 
But in stede of sturgen or 

lamprons 
he drawyth vp a gumerd or 

gogeons, 
kodlynges, konger, or suche 

queyse fysche 
As wolwyche roches that be 
not worth a rusche. 
Piers of Fullham, 1. 17-20, K 
Pop. P., V. 2, p. 3. 

Boast apples and pears, 266/26. 

Boast beef; garlic its sauce, 152/ 
536. 

Boast porpoise, 280/8. 

Bob, 309/327, rub. ' 

Bobe, 178/908. Robhe dHautmy 
nefait honneur a ntdluy : Prov. 
No apparell can truly grace 
him that owes [=owns] it not. 
Cotgrave, u. Autruy. 

Bobes ; yeomen and servants to 
wear, p. 329, No. viL 

Boche alum, p. 250. 



INDEX. 



113 



Eochet, 281/5; p. 288, roach. 

• Eutilus, the Eoach or Rochet ; 
a FisL' Phillips. * 

Eods, four officers to bear, 309/ 
353. 

Eomney modoun, 124/96, 104; 
125/116, 119 ; p. 202 ; p. 
205, note 7 and 6 ; 266/34 ; 
267/3 ; 267/21. 

Eoppes, 150/512, bowels. 

Eose, coloured, 267/14, a winel 

* £au clairette. A water (made 
of Aquauite, Cinnamon, Sugar, 
and old red Eose water) ex- 
cellent against all the diseases 
of the ]^^trix.' Cot. 

Eosewater, 261/2 ; p. 255 ; after 
a bath, 183/985. 

Eoughe, 161/644, roe. 
Eovnynge, 4/95, whispering. 

Eounde, 20/54; Fr. suroreiUery 
to round, or whisper in the 
eare. Cot. 

Eownyng, 306/250, whispering. 

Eub yourself every day, p. 249 ; 
p. 254, 255, 258. 

Eub yourself, don't, 26/14. 

Eub hands or arms, don't, II. 3/ 
19; 11. 19/61. 

Eub your teeth, p. 249. 
Eubus, a fish, p. 237. 
Eue, U. 44/137, 141. 
Euflfelynge, 132/250, ruffling. 
Eule of Honest Living, p. 105. 
Eumbus, a fish, p. 236. 

Eussell, John : his Boke of 
Nurture^ p. 117-199 ; de- 
scribes his position and train- 
ing, p. 196, 197, 198. 

Eybbewortj 184/992. 

Eyme, 315/507 ? haste ; A.S. 
hrffm^ hrum is soot ; rwm, 



room, space ; ryman, to make 
room, give place, make way. 
Bos. 

Eyoche, a fish, p. 237. 

I Sad, 27/17, steady, fixed. 

Saddles, old, for yeomen, 319/ 
613. ' 

Sadly, 159/621, quietly? 
Sadnes, 137/308, sobriety. 
Safi^n for colouring capons, 275 

/I. 
Sage, frature, 166/708. 

Salads, 124/97; green, are bad, 
j 266 / 36. * He that wine 
drinkes not after a (cold) 
sallate, his health indangers 
(and does wrong to his pal- 
late).' Cot See a i-ecipe for 
Salat of 14 vegetables, &c., in 
T?ie Forme of Cury, p. 41, 
No. 76. 

Sale, 300/44, haU. 

Salens, 280/8 ; p. 288, a fish. 

Salere, 7/159 ; sailer, 322/670 ; 
Fr. mliere, a salt-cellar, a table 
or trencher salt Cot 

Salmon, 157/583; 173/833; p. 
237; n. 40/83; 11.44/129. 

Salmon bellows, 166/179 ; salted, 
154/555. 

Salmon's beUy, 171/823. 

Salpa, a fish, p. 237. 

Salt to be white, II. 36/26 ; put 
some on your trencher, 7/161 ; 
take it with your knife, 30, 
31/65; 76/204; 344/440; 
with your fingers, not your 
knife, II. 38/58 ; don't dip 
meat into it, 18/29. See Salt- 
cellar. 

Salt, dirtied, not to be put into 
the saltKjeUar, II. 38/63. 



u 



114 



INDEX. 



Salt as sauce, p. 275-6 ; 11. 44/ 
124 ; meat too salt is bad, 56/ 
21. 

Salt and wine, fresh-herring sauce, 
161/645. 

Salt fish and salmon, 280/30. 

Salt-fish, how to serve up, p. 
154-5. 

SaltceUar, 130/199 ; 269/1, 3 ; 
to he clean, II. 37/26 and 
note. 

Saltcellar, dip no food into it, 7 
/159; 18/29; 303/129; II. 
3/15; II. 7/23; 11. 11/65; 
II. 17/17; II. 26/13; II. 32 

/36. 

Salt-sellere, 120/60, salt-cellar. 

Salute thy school-master and 
-fellows, 339/150-4. 

Samoun bellows, 166/719. 

Sampson's strength, no good 
without reason, 95/465. 

Sanguineus or Spring, 167/729 ; 
p! 220 ; 169/769, 787. 

Sans, 179/922, sense, smelL 

Saoul, II. 6/7, full glutted, 
cloyed, saciated, that hath so 
much of a thing as he is readie 
to loath it. Cot. 

Saphire, 257/7. 

Sarcell (Fr. cercelle, (the water- 
fowle called) a Teale, Cot.), 
how to breke or carve, p. 277. 

Saigeaunt of law, rank of, 187/ 
1026 ; 189/1067. 

Satchell for school-books, 338/ 
110; 339/160. 

Satin, a lord's cloak of, 178/914. 

Sauce, p, 265, carve. 

Sauces for flesh, p. 151-3; for 
fish, p. 172-5; 282/4; for 
fowles, p. 273 ; for the second 
course of a dinner, p. 277. 



Sauerly, 142/415, as if he liked it 

Saving, be, 83/45. 

Sawcere, 148/495. 

Sawge, 149/501, ? sage. 

Say the best, 56/40. 

Say, fruyter, 273/24 ; p. 289. 

Sayed, 315/495, 498, tried, tasted 

against poison. 
Sayes, 324/764, assays, tastes. 
Sayntis, 305/201, saints' shrines. 

Scabby, if you are, go to the 
doctor, II. 64/301. 

Scabiose, 185/994 ; p. 225. 

Scandal, don't listen to, 56/33 ; 
don't talk, II. 8/46. 

Scant, don't be too, 83/41. 

Scarlet, 178/914, scarlet stuff or 

cloth. 
Schone, 318/590, shalL 
Schyn, shall, 319/607. 

School, boy going to, how to 
behave, p. 339 ; what to leatn 
at, p. 303, The Second Book. 

School, go to, after dinner, 291 

/1 9. 
Schoolmasters, p. 64. 
Schrubbynge, 1 36/300, rub, scrub. 

Schyuer, 322/692, slice ; " schy- 

vyr, fimtlat ahscindula" 

Prompt. 
Scilla, a sea-monster, p. 237. 
Scissors for candle-snuff, 327/ 

829. 
Score the table with a knife, 

don't, 80/318. 
Scorn no one, 4/100 ; 15/65 ; 

37/27. 
Scorn not the poor, 19/57. 
Scoring on a rod the messes for 

dinner, 312/407 ; done to check 

the cook, 312/415. 



INDEX. 



115 



Scorning to be avoided, 135/291. 

Scorpion of the sea, p. 238. 

Scratch your head at meals, 
don't, 77/241. 

Scratch your limbs like a mole, 
don't, II. 26/15 ; XL 30/5. 

Screen in hall, 300/28. 

Screens against heat to be pro- 
vided, 314/462. 

Sea-bull {focaa)^ p. 234. 

Sea-fish, 11. 50/223. 

8eager*8 Sehoole of Vertuey p. 
333-55; Pref. to Russell, p. 
cxiiL 

Seal, 171/823; 280/13; 281/35. 

Seall (jele), 154/548; 157/583. 

Sea-mouse, p. 235. 

Sea-snails, p. 232. 

Seat at table, see that it's clean, 
11. 9/32. 

Seat, don't take the highest, II. 
30/13. See Press. 

Seaward, 161/642, just from the 
sea. 

Sea-water is drying, 11. 52/264. 

Seche, 137/315, carve certain 
birds? 

Secretary, his duty, II. 23/97. 

Secrets, don't tell 'em to a shrew, 
306/245. 

Seeke, 125/116, sick, wine) out) 
of condition. 

Seew, 31/57, ?a stew ; sew, rcpw- 
latum. Prompt. See Sewes. 

Sege, 181/954, evacuating oneself; 
p. 179, note *. 

Seluage, 321/657, 661, edge of a 
table-cloth. 

Semblaunt, 305/192, seeming, 
countenance. 

Semble, 192/1140, putting to- 
gether. 



h2 



Semethe, 159/621, seems good to, 
it pleases. 

Sen, 1/3, since. 

Sendell, 178/914, a fine silk 
stuff ; Fr. cendaJ, H. Coleridge. 

Seneachallus, 316/520-1, the 
steward. 

Sentory, 184/992, centaury. 
Seneca's advice, 350/887. 

Sere, 7/164; 307/262, several, 
different 

Serjeant of arms, rank of, 187/ 
1034. 

Serra, a fish, p. 237. 

Sendee, 29, 28/26, food served 
to a person, allowance. 

Servant, is to put up with his 
mastei^s temper, 83/59. 

Servants, Hugh Bhodes on the 
duties of, p. 66, &c. 

Servants, duties of, p. 328 ; 353 
/7 ; II. p. 202-5. 

Servants to sit at meak together, 
not here 4 and there 3, p. 
329, No. ix. 

Server with the dishes, follows 
the steward, 316/532. 

Service to be fairly to all, p. 330, 
No. xiii. 

Serving at table, how to behave 
when, p. 341-3. ^.^ 

ServiteurSf Regime pour tons, II. 
p. 20-25. 

Servitors to carry dishes to the 
dinner-table, 163/682-3. 

Set not an hawe, 124/99, value 
not a haw. 

Sewe, p. 60 ; 278/31, 1 stew. 

Sewe, 171/819, course. 

Sewere, 161/654, 657, thearranger 
of dishes on a table. Du. 
een opperste Tafel-dienaer^ A 



116 



INDEX. 



^faster-suer, or a Stuard that 
sets the courses or messes of 
nieate ou the table. Hexham. 

Sewer, his duties, p. 162-3 ; p. 
270-1. 

Sewes (service, courses), on fish- 
dayes, p. 171. 

Sewes, 268/17, stews or dishes of 
food] 

Sewes, 149/509; 151/523, soups 
or stews. 

Sewynge, borde or table of, 270/ 
26, serving-up. 

Sewynge of flesshe, p. 270. 

Sewynge, in, 167/734, serving, 
course ; 1 not iffseutjnge, ensu- 
ing. 

Shall, 283/14, for shake. See 
Pref. p. cxxiiL 1. 6. 

Shame the reward of lying, 352/ 
960. 

Share with your fellows, 21/95 ; 
28, 29/47. 

Share fairly a joint gift, 305/197. 

Sheep, II. 50/215. 

Sheets to be clean and dry, p. 
69 ; to be sweet and clean, 
283/14. 

Shene, 320/622, fair, beautiful. 

Shewethe, 161 / 657, arranges 
courses and dishes. 

Shirt, a clean, 176/871 ; 282/22 ; 
to be warmed, 1. 25. 

Shirt-collar, 338/85. 

Shoes to be clean, 338/92 ; 
servants not to wear old ones, 
p. 329, No. vii. 

Shoeing horses, 4 a day for, 319/ 
616. 

Shon, shoes, 176/874; 181/961. 

Shore, a-, Shaylyng with the knees 



tog3rther, and the fete a sonder, 
a eischais. Palsgrave, p. 841, 
coL 2. Favquety A shaling wiy- 
legd fellow. Cotgrave. 

Short word, the first, is generally 
true, 306/211. 

Shoulders, don't wriggle your, 
39/61. 

Shovelar, Shoveller, 144/433; 
153/541 ; p. 214, 273/6, the 
bird. 

Show out thy visage, 30, 31/75. 

Shrimps, how to serve up, 161/ 
646-9 ; 168/748 ; 172/824 ; 
174/850 ; 281/32. 

Shnikkynge, 135/287, shrugging. 
Schruggyn, fritjulo. Prompt 

Shyn, shall, 313/435. 

Sicurly, 189/1080, surely, cer- 
tairdy. 

Side, 1. 248, breadth. 

Sideboard (a syde cupboorde), 67/ 
2 from foot. 

Sigh not before your lord, 135/ 
297. 

Sight injured by young women's 
company, 87/204. 

Signet, 152/535, cygnet, swanling. 

Skyft^ 305/198. A.S. scyft, di- 
vision; «cy/tan, to divide. 

Skyfted of, 311/402, shifted oflf. 

Silence fittest for a child at table, 
344/489. 

SUent, be, 291/8; IL 4/48; 
while your lord drinks, 4/92. 

Silk to be worn in summer, p. 
249. 

Silk garments, p. 255. 

Saver,the dishes of, 324/767. 

Silver given away by the almoner 
as he rides, 324/743. 

Sinews indigestible, 140/362. 



INDEX. 



117 



Siren or Mermaid, * a dedely 
beate/ p. 237-8. 

Sirippe, 167/733, syrup. 

Sireppis, 149/509; 151/524, 
ayrops, t. L stews or gravies. 

Siruppe, 141 / 397 ; 142 /'400 ; 
sauce for partridges, &c. 

Sit, don't, till bidden, 16/14; 21/ 
89 ; sit properly, 296/149 ; 
sit down when you're told to, 
4/97 ; and where you're told, 
21/91; 74/136; 309/345; 11. 
3/8 ; 11. 17/12 ; 11. 26/6. "II 
86 pent seoir sans contredit qui 
86 met la ou son hoste luy dit : 
Prov. He needs not feare to be 
chidden that sits where he is 
bidden ; (the like is) II se pevt 
bien seoir a table quund le 
maistre luy commande: Prov. 
Well may he sit him downe 
whom he that may sets downe. 

Sixpence, the value of each mess 
at dinner, 312/413. 

Sixpence the receiver's fee, 319/ 
598. 

Skins, indigestible, 140/367 ; of 
chickens, &c, not wholesome, 
279/28 ; to be cut off boUed 
flesh, 279/7 ; to bo pared off 
salt fish, 154/553. 

Skins the huntsman's perquisite, 
320/636. 

Skirt of a man's dress, 301/91. 

Skynnery, 180/946, skins, furs. 

Slake, p. 38, L 42, 44, appease ; 
A.S. slaeian^ to slacken. 

Slake, 147/483-4, cut 

Slander & bawdy, don't talk, 81/ 
379. 

Slander, don't, II. 28/38 ; 11. 
32/40 ; don't report, 97/531 ; do 
eschew, II. 21/19. 

Slanders are hard to still, 37/36. 



Sleep at church, don't, 74/1 1 1 ; 
nor at table, II. 4/29 ; II. 11/ 
82 ; 11. 19/72 ; nor long after 
food, 56/38. 

Sleep at mid-day not wholesome, 
181/952. 

Sleep, how much to be taken, 
246/5 ; much, no credit to a 
youth, 11. 21/41. 

Slegh, 308/300, cunning, careful. 

Sling, p. 135, note; blow your 
nose with and through your 
fingers. Still in use in America. 
G. P. Marsh. 

Slippers brown as the waterleech, 
176/874; 183/987; 282/31. 

Sloth, evils of, 83/30. 

Slutt, 158/590, awkward animal. 

Smack your lips, don't, 344/455. 

Small pieces, eat, 18/37. 

Smallache, 184/993. 

Small birds, how to carve, 1 46/ 
473. 

Sneeze ; turn your back to people 
when you sneeze, 293/61. 

Smaragd (an emerald) good against 
falling-sickness, p. 257. 

Snetyng, p. 13, I. 19, snotting, 
wiping your nose with your 
fingers. ^ Mouchement : u. 
A anyting^ or wiping of the 
nose.' Cot. 

Sniff not too loud, 134/284. 

Suite not (blow with your fingers) 
your nose too loud, 134/284. 
* Deux pour vn. The Snyte- 
knave ; tearmed so, because two 
of them are worth but one good 
Snyte* Cotgrave. *To Sniie. 
To wipe, or slap. Snife his 
snitch ; wipe his nose, L e. give 
him a good knock.' 1796. 
Diet, oftJie Vulgar Tongue. 



118 



INDSZ. 



Snyte or suipe, how to carve, 143/ 
421; p. 277; 153/544; 214/ 
2; 165/706; p. 220; 279/3. 

Snivel, don't snuflf yours up, II. 
14/134. 

Snot-fishes, II. 44, note '. 

Snuff of candles taken away with 
scissors, 327/829. 

Snuffers, 327/830. 

Snuffle, don% 293/57. 

Socks, 176/873 ; 177/894; 178/ 
895; 181/961; 183/987 ; 246/ 
12. 

Socrates wiped his nose on his 
cap, a bad example, 292/45. 

Soft <fe fair will tame anything, 
51/103-4. 

Soft dishes last, II. 40/86. 

Soil the cloth, don't, 6/147. 

Solaris, a fish, p. 238. 

Soles, 156/578; 166/724; p. 238; 

174/841. 

Soleyn, 166/709, solemn. 

Solopendria, a fish, p. 238. 

Soraet, 316/540, siunmed. 

Somen, 167/733, salmon. 

Son, a father's counsel to a, p. 
48-52. 

Songs, hear them, IL 64/294. 

Songs of love, bad for youth, p. 64. 

Sops, 149/509. 

Sore, 300/42, sorrow, pain. 

Sorrel with goose, 278/2. 

Soule-heele (salvation), try to get, 
52/140. 

Souls in purgatory, pray for, 19/ 
30. 

Sotelte, 324/758, dodge, way. 

Sotelte, a device after each course 
of a dinner, 164/690; 165/702; 
166/710; 168/726,738; 168/ 



750, 765; p. 169-170. Does 
Chaucer allude to these when 
speaking of the 'exuesse of 
divers metis and drinkis, and 
namely of suche maner of bake 
metis and dische metes brenn- 
yng of wilde fuyr, and peynied 
arul eastelid with papire^ and 
semblable wast, so that is abu- 
sion for to thinke.' Persones 
Tale, ed. Morris, iii 299. ' A 
soteltie with writing of balads ' 
came at theend of thefirstcourse 
of Hen. YIL's maniage-feast in 
1487. Itcdian Bdaiiony p. 
115. Eabett sowker, in 2nd 
course, ih. 

Sowkers, 145/457, suckling. 

Sows fed with fish, p. 220, note 
on L 737. 

Sowse, 139/360, pickled. 

Spain, tapetis or carpets of, 314/ 
457. 

Sparling, names of a, p. 215. 

Sparlynge, 173/833, the fish 
Sperling. Fr. esperlan, a smelt. 
Cot. Spurlin, a smelt, Fr. ea- 
perlan. Skinner, in Prompt 

Sparrows, 144/437; 153/543; 
165/706; p. 220. 

Speak well of all men, 23/100. 

Speaker of the Parliament, rank 
of, 188/1052. 

Speech mars or makes a man, 1 5/ 
81-2 ; shows the man, 97/547 ; 
should be short, II. 32/39. 

Speche, 327/845, book or division 
of a poem. 

Speke, 270/17, speak of. 

Spend too much, don't, 99/623. 

Spermyse chese, p. 200-1, note to 
1.74. 

Spiced cakes, 171/816. 

Spicery, 128/171, spices; p. 207. 



IXD£X. 



119 



Sx)icery and store; Clerk of the 
Kitchen keeps the, 317/659. 

Spiceiy, the officer of the, 162/ 
666. 

Spices, 171/813; 11. 38/54. 

Spill the gravy on your parents' 
clothes, don't, 342/342. 

SpiU your food, don't, 20/59. 

Spit not, 134/271 ; 11. 3/21 ; 
not too far, 135/290 ; modestly, 
294/101 ; not over much at 
meals, 344/498. 

Spit on the table, don't, 18/43; 
301/85 ; II. 7/29 ; II. 26/18 ; 
II. 32/27; or over the table, 
78/243; 11. 19/63. 

Spit in the washing basin, don't, 
22/87 ; 11. 28/35 ; II. 32/37 ; 
or loosely about, 303/134 ; not 
into the washing basin, II. 5/ 
70; II. 19/78; but you may 
when you wash, II. 8/52. 

Spit, when you do, cover your 
mouth with your hand, 23/1 17. 

Spit and suite, don't, 13/19; 
when you do, tread it out, 79/ 
289. 

Spit-out food, don't put in the 
dish, 11. 3/13; II. 7/17; II. 
10/52 ; II. 1 7/15. 

Splat, 156/576, split open. 

Splatte, p. 265, carve. 

Splaye, p. 265, carve. 

Splayd, 129/186, set out ; 179/ 
928, displayed, decked. 

Sponge your dothes, 73/73. 

Sponges for bathing, 182/978; 
183/979-84. 

Spony stele, 322/677, the spoon 
handle. 

Spoon, don't leave yours in the 
dish, 6/145; II. 26/17; II. 
32/24. 



Spoon, not to be filled full, 30, 
31/59; 76/187; not to be 
put in the dish, 23/125 ; not to 
stand in the dish, 301/71. 

Spoon ; keep it clean, 28, 29/35 ; 
wipe it clean, 77/207 ; take it 
out of the dish when you've 
finished, 18/42. 

Spowt not with your mouth, 135/ 
293. 

Spoyle, p. 265, carve. 

Spring, the device of, 169/771. 

Spring, what to do in, 11. 54/272 . 

Spring-water good if to east or 
south, II. 52/262. 

Sprottes, 281/33, sprats. 

Sprouts, II. 38/52. 

Spycery, 270/25. 

Spyrre, p. 2, L 37 ; A.S. spyrian., 
to track, seek, inquire, investi- 
gate, Sc. speir. O.N. spiria, 

Spyrryng, p. 2, 1. 39, seeking, 
inquiring. 

Squatinus, a fish, p. 239. 

Squire's table, who may sit at, 
182/1040 ; 283/3. 

Squirt not with your mouth, 1 35/ 
293. 

Squyer, hia wages paid by the 
treasurer, 318/586. 

Stabulle, 304/169, support. 
Stag's flesh, II. 42/118. 

Stamell, 248/5, a kind of fiviQ 
worsted. Halliwell; Fr. estatne, 
worsted. Cot. 

Stammering to be rebuked, 63/ 
2 from foot. 

Stand, if you do, be ware of falling, 
306/239. 

Stand not still on stones, p. 248. 

Stand upright, 75/145; 201/1. 

Starts Puer ad Mensam, two Eng- 



120 



INDEX* 



lish texts, p. 26-33 ; Latin text 
& Englishing of it, II. p. 30-33. 

Standard, 165/694, ? the chief 
dish at a dinner, served stand- 
ing, 271/3. * A large or stand- 
ing dish,' says Pegge, on Sir J. 
Nevile's *a Roe roasted for 
Standert,' Fomie of Cury^ p. 
173, *for a Standert, Cranes 2 
of a dish,* p. 174, L 3. 

Staudarde, 280/12, 1 chief dish of 
fish. 

Stapulle, 188/1064, Calais. 

Stare about, don't, 3/68; 10/18; 
p. 12, 1. S ; 291/3. 

State, 133/252, a grand curl-up 
or arrangement of a cloth or 
towel. 

State, 133/253; p. 209, master 
of the house. 

States, 171/821, nobles? ' de 
ttoaelf Genootm ofte Staten van 
Vranckrijck^ The twelve Peeres 
or States of the Kingdome of 
France'. 1660. Hexham. 

Staunche, 1 28/1 74 ; Fr. estancher, 
to stanch or stop the flow of 
liquid. Sp. estancar, to stop a 
leak ; estancOy water-tight, A 
staTich vessel is one that will 
hold the water in or out, 
whence fig. stanch, firm, reli- 
able. Wedgwood. 

Staunche, 307/273, stop, stay. 

Stay at home, girls to, 40/79. 

Stealing dishes, to be watched 
against, 163/680. 

Sted, 159/614, treated, served 

Steward, his duties, 316/521 
(many are false, 1. 522) ; he 

• sits on the dais in hall, 299/ 
20 ; carries a staff, 309/354 ; 
310/358 ; is to keep good 
order in hall, p. 330, No. xiii 



Stewe or bath, p. 182. 

Stewed beef or mutton, 170/798. 

Stewed pheasant, 164/688. 

Stinking breath not to be cast on 
your lord, 136/302. 

Stirring, don't be too, 10/18 ; p. 
12, 1. S. 

Stockdove, 141/397. 

Stockfish, 155/558 ; p. 214 ; 174/ 
845 ; p. 237. ' The Icelandic 
fare is not more inviting than 
the houses. Stockfish and but- 
ter eaten in alternate mouth- 
fuls form the ordinary materials 
of a meal. The former, however, 
has to be pummelled on a stone 
anvil with a sledge hammer 
before even the natives can bite 
it ; and, after it has undeigone 
this preparation, seems, accord- 
ing to Mr Shepherd, to require 
teeth to the manner bom. The 
latter is made from sheep's milk, 
and as it is kept through the 
winter in skins, becomes ** rancid 
beyond conception in the early 
spring." ' — Chronide, Aug. 10, 
1867, on Shepherds North- 
West Penimnda of Icelaud, 

Stocks, the porter keeps the, 310 
/362. 

Stomach the body's kitchen, 262 
/14.15. 

Stomacher, 177/893; 282/30. 

Stop strife between brothers, 307 

/271. 

Stork ; it snuffles, don't you, 
293/59. 

Stork, 144/433 ; 165/695 ; 271/ 
4. See Pigmies. 

Storuyn, 325/766, spoilt by cold. 
Stounde, 182/965, moment 
Straddle, don't, 296/151. 



INDEX. 



121 



Strangers, 285/28 ; always admit, 
p. 330, No. XV. ; be kind to, 
102/741 ; share good food with 
them, 7/169 ; give them 
dainties, 77/221 ; the porter 
warns them, 310/368. 

Strangers, visitors and residents, 
191/1109-10. 

Strawberies, 122/78; 123/82; p. 
201, note to L 81 ; 266/24. 

Straynoure, p. 60, strainer. 

Streets, walk demurely in, II. 
30/7. 

Stretch yourself at table, don't, 
80/316. 

Stretch your limbs, pp. 246, 249, 
264 ; 11. 52/243. 

Strife not to be allowed in a 
household, p. 329, No. v. 

Strive not with your lord, 305/ 
226. 

Strongere, 326/801, stranger, 
guest. 

Strye, 305/223, destroy. 

Stryke 134/280, stroke. *I 
stryke ones heed, as we do a 
chyldes whan he dothe welL 
Je applanie, . . My father 
sayeth I am a good sonne, he 
dyd stryke my heed by cause 
I had conned my lesson with- 
out the booke.' Palsgrave. See 
also ' I stryke softely ' and 
*I stroke ones heed,* p. 741, 
ed. 1852. 

Strynge, p. 265, carve. 

Stuff, 158/592, 594, craVs flesh; 
281/16, a crab's inside. 

Stuff, 147/485, gravy? 

Stuff your jaws, don't, 28, 29/31. 

Stuff, don't, II. 4/27, 55 ; II. 
10/40, 67; II. 13/118; II. 
18/41. 



Stufi^g makes men ill, 11. 52/ 
261. 

Sturgeon, 157/583 ; 168/746 ; 
174/850; p. 238; 280/16; 
salt, 173/836. 

Stut, 348/706, stutter. 

Subjects, their duty, 354/15. 

Suffrigan, 186/1013 ; Fr. suffra- 
ganty A Suffragan, a Bishops 
deputie. Cot. 

Suffering stops anger, 91/337. 

Sugar and mustard, the sauce for 
partridges, &c., 152/538. 

Sugar and salt as a sauce, 162/ 
640 ; with Curlews, &c., 152/ 
640. 

Sugar, strewed on baked herrings, 
166/722; 164/550. 

Sugar candy (sugre candy, 126/ 
139); 168/757; 251/11; p. 
257; 280/18. 

Summedelasse, 326/806, some 
deal less. 

Summer, how. to manage yourself 
in, II. 54/277. 

Summer, the device of, 167/739- 
43. 

Sun, face and neck to be kept 
from, 248/8. 

Sup not your food up lowdly, 23 
/127; 28/40 ; 29/37 ; 76/201 ; 
301/69. 

Sup not too loud, 76/201. 

Superiors, don't be too bold with, 
84/93. 

Supennaar, 317/544-5, surveyor. 

Suppers to be light, p. 247 ; to 
be larger than dinners, p. 258. 
See the one in Sir Isumbras, 
Thornton Romancey p. 235, Ac. 

Sumape, how to lay, p. 132-3 ; 
p. 208-9 ; 269/26 ; it was the 
upper towel or cloth for the 



122 



IND£X. 



master of the house to wipe 
his hands on after washing 
them when dinner was done. 
The sewer to bring it after 
dinner, 326/809-20. 

Surueynge horde, 163/675, table 
or dresser on which the cook 
is to put the dishes for dinner. 

Surveyor of the dishes for dinner, 
162/672; 163/674, 676. 

Surveyor, his duties, 317/545. 

Suwe, 15/83 ; O.Fr. seure^ sevre^ 
Fr. suivrCf L. seqtiory follow. 

Swallow, 144/438 (the bird). 

Swan, 164/688 ; p. 217 ; II. 42 
/119 ; how to carve, 142/402 ; 
to lyfte or carve, p. 275. 

Swan ; its sauce is chaudon, 152 
/535 ; p. 213 ; its skin is to 
be cut off, 279/15. 

Swashbucklers, hanging good for, 
p. 241. 

Swear not, 21/75 ; 39/62. 

Swear no oaths, 28, 29/44. 

Swearing, against, p. 350, cap. 
xi. See Aischam's account and 
condemnation of it in 1545, 
Toxophilutf, p. 45, ed. Giles, 
and in his Schoolmaster^ p. 
131, of the little child of four 
roundly rapping out his ugly 
oaths. 

Sweat yourself in spring, IL 54/ 
275. 

Sweet words, ware ; the serpent 
was in 'em, 305/207. 

Swenge, 212/1, beat up. 

Swordfish, 157/582 ; p. 234 ; 
salt, 173/836. 

Swyng, p. 53, beat, whip, mix. 

Syce, 314/469, candle-stick or 
holder ; but ' Syse, waxe 
candell, JxmgeeJ Palsgrave in 
Halliwell. 



j Syde, p. 265, carve. 

Syles, 322/695, ? strains. 

Sylour, 313/445, tester and val- 
ances of a bed. 
Hur bede was off aszure, 
With testur and celure, 
With a bryjt bordure 
Compasyd ful clene. 
Sir Degrevanty 1. 1473-6 ; p. 
238. A tester ouer the beadde, 
canopm, Withals. 

Symple condicions (how to be- 
have at table, &c.), p. 134 ; p. 
209. 

Synamome, 126/131, 136. 

Syngeler, 195/1184, single. 

Syngulerly, 189/1074, 1079, by 
itself. 

Table for dinner, how the ewer 
and panter are to lay it, p. 
321-3. 

Table, how to lay and serve the, 
II. 36/38 ; how to serve at, IL 
22/77-85. 

Table, how to behave when sitting 
at, 343/423 ; keep it clean, IL 
28/30 ; IL 32/34. 

Table, who unworthy to sit at, 
IL 5/83; IL 28/37; IL 32/42. 

Table-cloth, don't dirty it with 
your knife, 302/110, or wipe 
your teeth on it, 302/115; 
don't stain it, IL 32/34 ; it is 
to be white, II. 36/38. 

Table-knife, 138/334, 1 a broad 
light knife for lifting bread- 
trenchers on to the table. 

Table-knives, 266/13. 

Tacches, 136/306, faults, ill 
manners. 

Tacchis, p. 12, 1. K, tricks, ways; 
tctch'e, or maner of condy- 



INDEX. 



123 



cyone, 7no8y condicio. Prompt. 
He that gentyl is, wylle drawe 
hym vnto gentil tatches, and to 
folowe the custommes of noble 
gentylmen. Caxton's Maleore, 
V. i, p. 250, ed. 1817. 

Take leave of all the company 
after dinner, 22/91-3. 

Take the best bit, don't, 28, 29/ 
45. 

Talwijs, p. 12, L T; 34/21; 
49/30 ; fuU of slander ; A.S. 
tdlf reproach, blame, slander, 
accusation,* false witness, a 
fable, tale, story. Bosworth 
(from whom all the A.S. words 
are quoted). Du. taalv liter ^ a 
censorious critick. SeweL 
^ Tcdu has for its fiirst significa- 
tion censure ; and " wise at cen- 
auref* censorious, is an ancient 
Momus.' Cockayne. 

Talewijs (talkative?), don't be, 
49/26. 

Talk at meals, don't, 18/51. 

Talk loud, don't, 82/21. 

Talk little at dinner, II. 8/49. 

Talk too much, don't, 20/58 ; 94/ 
453; 332/6; IL 12/92; 11. 
17/34 ; over your wine, II. 
11/78. 

Talking to any man, how to be- 
have when, p. 347, cap. vii. 

Tamed, 139/345, trimmed, or ? 
cut down. 

Tampyne, p. 121, L 68, a stopper. 

Tansey, 273/26; II. 46/158; is 
good hot, 149/503. 

Tansy cake, p. 212. 

Tansye fryed, 275/10. 

Tansey gyse, a, 168/749, a diah 
of tansey of some kind. 

Tantablin, 212/14, a kind of tart. 



Tapet, 315/484, cloth. 

Tapetis, 314/457, 460, cloths, 
carpets, or hangings. 

Tarrer, p. 121, L 65, L 71, an auger. 
Tarere por percier. De VOus- 
tillement au Villain, ed. 1833, 
p. 10. 3hrre . . Hauing an 
ouerture or hole. Tare, worme- 
eaten, or full of holes. Cot. 

Tarryours, 266/14, augers. 

Tartlett, 151/521. 

Tarts, 275/4 ; 278/29. 

Tast, 179/922, test, try. 

Taste every dish, 7/165. 

Tastynge, 196/1195-9 (tasting or 
testing food to see that there's 
no poison in it), is only done 
for a King, &c., down to an 
earl, 315/495-6. 

Tattle, don't, 15/78. 

Tavern, don't frequent it, 39/70- 
2 ; 50/59. 

Tayme, p. 265, cut up. 

Teal, p. 278, last line; how to 
carve, 142/401; p. 211; p. 
277. 

Teal pie, 147/481.' 

Teeth, brush 'em, II. 52/244 ; to 
be kept white, 295/121 ; how 
to keep clean, p. 250. 

Teeth not to be picked at meals, 
6/150; 14/54; 136/301; 
344/495 ; to be picked with a 
stick, 78/247 ; not to be picked 
with a knife or a stick at meals, 
302/93. 

Teeth, don't wipe 'em with the 
cloth, II. 4/41 ; or the dinner- 
napkin, IL 42/73. 

Temper, 158/595, season, sauce ; 
160/636, mix. 

Temper thy tongue and belly, 
344/476. 



124 



INDEX. 



Temperance is best, p. 12, L T ; 
10/19 ; practise it, 79/279. 

Temporaunce, 246/4, moderate 
temperature. 

Tenants, to be asked after, p. 331 > 
No. xvi 

Tench, how to carve, 157/586 ; 
p. 238. 

Tenche in gelly, 280/14. 

Tene, 137/319, trouble. 

Tene, 180/934, vex, trouble. 

Tent, 48/3, heed, attention. 

Tent^ 312/430, attend to, take 
charge of. 

Tepet, 301/92, a man's tippet. 

Testudo, p. 239, the tortoise or 
turtle. 

J)an, 169/785, that, which. 

Thank him who gives you food, 
90/292. 

J)aughe, 168/761, though. 

The, 14/32, thrive. 

))eedom, 47/209, prosperity; from 

pee to thrive. 
])egre, 15/66, degree, state. 

Theologicum, 203/7, the monks 
wine. 

Think before you speak, 89/273. 

Third man, never be, 307/287. 

))o, 13/5, do, put. 

Thomback, 157/584 ; p. 215, two 
notes; 174/844; 281 / 10; 
282/11. 

Thorpole, 281/10. See Thurle- 
polle. 

Three or four at a mess, 285/13. 

Three fingers, touch food with, 
II. 28/28. 

Threpole, 282/8. 

Throat, don't get food into your 
wrong one, or it will do for you, 
302/99. 



Thrushes, 144/438; 153/543; 
279/3. 

Thumb, don't dip yours into your 
drink, 303/127 ; don't spread 
butter with it, II. 40/91. 

Thurle-polle, 157/584; p. 215; 
salt, 173/837. 

Thwart (quarrel), don't, 75/152. 

Thye, p. 265, carve. 

Tickle, of tongue, some are, 101/ 
695. 

Tijt, 190/1095, draws, grows, 
from A.S. teon. 

Tune (a) for all things, 95/481. 

Tintem, the abbot of, the poorest 
of all abbots, 192/1142. 

Tintinalus, a fish, p. 238. 

Tithes, pay, 37/18. 

Toes, keep 'em stUl, 308/320. 

Tome, 299/10, opportunity. 

Tongue ; don't let yours walk» 
344/472 ; don't poke it out and 
in, 294/97 ; govern it well, 85/ 
109 ; charm it, 361/284. 

Toothpick, p. 114. 

Tooth-picker (a.d. 1602), p. 252, 
p. 258 ; Sp. eecarvadf'entesy a 
tooth-picker, a tooth-scraper. 
1591, Percivale, by tMinsheu, 
1623. 

Top crust for the master, II. 36/27. 

Torches, 315/508; 327/825. 

Torn clothes to be mended, 338/ 
102. 

Tomsole, 267/25 ; 268/1 ; Pegge 
says 'Not the flower Heliotrope, 
but a drug. Northumb. Book, 
p. 3, 19. I suppose it to be 
Turmeric. V. Brooke's Nat 
Hist, of Vegetables, p. 9, where 
it is used both in victuals and 
for dying.' Forme of Cury, p. 
88. See Turnsole. 



INDEX. 



125 



Torrentyne of Ebrew, 125/119; 
p. 206, No, 1 1 ; a sweet wine. 

Torrentyne, 173/835; p. 223; 
the trout. Fr. torrentin is 
' Belonging to, or abiding in, 
torrents, or swift and violent 
streames.' Cot. 

TorrentiUe, 154/548 ; p. 214, a 
fish. ? what. 

Tortes, 316/492 ; p. 314, note », 
a kind of light ; 315/510; 327/ 
825 ; 326/note *. 

Totter, don't, 296/151. 

Towel, don't dirty it at dinner, 
14/52. 

Towel, a narrow and a broad, to 
wash with after dinner, 326/ 
811. 

Towel, 2 knights to hold before 
the lord's sleeves, 323/713. 

Towse, p. 53, pull or chop ; 
' touse, to tug or puU about.' 
HalliwelL 

Towse, 169/781, 1 

Trace, 162/664, way; 346/630, 
track, path. 

Trample not with your feet, 136/ 
299. 

Transsene, p. 265, cut up. 

Traunche, p. 265, cut up. 

Tre, 323/701, wood. 

Treasurer, his duties, 318/573-94 ; 
he sits on the dais in hall, 299/ 
20. 

Treatablie, 342/323, distinctly. 

Tretably, 347/673,1 Fr. traidable, 
courteous, gracious. Cot. 

Trencher bread, 120/56; p. 200; 
to be 4 days old, 266/7. ' Item 
that the Trenchor Brede be 
maid of the Meale as it cum- 
myth frome the Milne.' North' 
umherland H, Booky p. 68. . 



Trenchere lovis, 130/197; p. 200; 
268/35 ; p. 271 ; loaves of coarse 
unsifted meal ; the panter to 
bring in three, 322/667. 

Trencher-knife, 67/15 ; 68/14. 

Trencher, no filth to be on, 20/ 
73 ; not to be loaded with scraps, 

28/48 ; 29/48. 

Trenchers, how to be laid on 
table, p. 138 ; four to the lord, 
and one a-top, 323/723 ; to be 
changed when wet, 67/18. 

Trenchers, used, to be put in the 
voider, 80/343. 

Trestis, 326/822, trestles. 

Trestuls, 311/389; trestles, 314/ 
464. 

Treteable, 31/78 ; Fr. iraictable. 
Tractable, pliant, facile, intreat- 
able, courteous, gracious. Cot 

Trete, 159/612, trouble? 

Trifelynge, 135/287, 1 rocking, 
swaying about. 

Trinity, bless oneself with, 303/ 

149. 

Trompe, the crane's, 144/431-2; 
273/6. 

Trout, 156/578 ; 167/736 ; p. 
239. 

True, be, in word and deed, 19/ 
41 ; 38/47. 

Trusse, 178/898, pull. 

Trust yourself, 43/137. 

Tunny, p. 213, note on L 633. 

Turbot, 157/583 ; 167/735 ; 281/ 
10; fresh, 175/862. 

Turnsole, 125/123; 127/143; p. 
207 ; tumesole is used to make 
pownas colour (ipoumaSf puce) 
in Forme of Cury^ recipe 68, 
p. 38. See Tomsole. 

Turrentyne salt, 282/7. 



12C 



INDEX. 



Tuirentyne, eele, 280/26 ; p. 288. 

Tursons, p. 166, note *. 

Tuske, p. 265, carve. 

Tntia, 251/10, for Tutia; Fr. 
Tidhie: f. Tutie ; a medicinable 
stone or dust, said to be the 
heauier foyle of Brasse, cleauing 
to the ypper sides and tops of 
Brasse-melting houses : and 
such doe ordinary Apothecaries 
passe away for Tuiie ; although 
the true Tutie be not heanie, 
but light and white like flocks 
of wooll, falling into dust as s<^n 
as it is touched ; this is bred of 
the sparkles of brasen furnaces, 
whereinto store of the minerall 
Calamine, beaten to dust, hath 
been cast Cotgrave. 

Two at a mess, who may sit, 285/ 
7 ; who, two or three, 285/9. 

Two fingers and thumb on a knife, 
p. 271. 

Twopence or threepence a day, 
the wages of a groom or page, 
320/619-20. 

Twynkelynge, 134/281, blinking. 

Twyte, 7/179, hack ; * telwyn, or 
thwytyn (twhytyn, twytyn). 
Abseeo, reseco.^ P. Parv. 

Tyer, 267/21, Tyrian wine. 

Tyere, p. 265, cut up. 

Tymbre that fyre, 'p. 265, put 
wood on it. 

T}Te, 125/119 ; p. 206, No. 9, 
a sweet wine. 

Unbrace, p. 265, carve. 

Unbrushen, 180/944. 

TJn cleanness to be abhorred, p. 

256. 
Uncountabulle, 317/544, not ac- 

coimtable to any other officer 

of the household ? 



Uncover thy head when talking 
to any man, 348/722. 

Undefied, 139/359, ? unqualified, 
unguarded against, uncooked. 

Undercrust of a loaf to be cut in 
three, 300/39. 

Undertraunche, p. 265, cut up. 

Undress by the fire, p. 252 ; in 
winter, p. 258. 

Undressing described, p. 283 ; 

and going to bed, 315/487, Ac., 

316/516. 
Unfed^ better than untaught, 

348/725. 
Unfei-mented bread, II. 48/179. 

Unjoint, p. 265, carve. 

Unlace, 137/315, 322 ; p. 265, 

carve (a cony) ; 142/410 (a 

capon). 
Unpleasant things, don't talk of, 

IL 28/22. 
Unruly, don't be, 81/368. 
Unsunken, 313/441. 
Untache, p. 265, carve. 
Upbrayde, 141/395, reproach. 

Upper-crust of a loaf for the lord, 
139/342; p. 271 at foot; to 
be cut in four, 300/37. 

Upright, sit, 21/93. 

Upright, p. 245, with the face 
upwards. " I throwe a man on 
his backe or upright, so that 
his face is upwarde. Je ren- 
uerae'' Palsgrave. 

Urinal, 283/34. 

Urine, retain it not, 296/145. 

Usher, the duties of one, p. 185- 

194; p. 284-6. 
Usher of the Chamber, 312/432 ; 

his duties, 314/473 to 316/ 

520 ; he carries the smallest 

wand, 309/354. 



INDEX. 



127 



Usher and marslial ; all other 
household officers obey him, 
196/1180. 

Ut te geras ad Mensamy II. p. 
26. 

Valadyne gynger, 126/132. 

Valance, 313/447, hangings of a 
bed. 

Yampeys, 177/894. 

Vantage, 320/635, gain, per- 
quisites. 

Vaunte, fryter, 271/2, 1 meat. 

Veal, 170/807; II. 36/47; II. 
50/212. 

Veal, verjuice its sauce, 162/534. 

Veele, 147/486, veal. 

Velany, 300/56, abusing. 

Velvet, 178/914. 

Venator, 320/628-9, the hunts- 
man. 

Venemous, don't be, p. 12, 1. V. 

Venesoun, how to carve, 141/ 
383-91 ; Andrew Borders 
opinion of, p. 210-11. 

Veniable, p. 1 2, 1. V, revengeful. 

Venison, 153/542 ; how to carve, 
272/13. 

Venison baked, 164/689 ; p. 217; 
roast, 144/444; 165/694; 279 

/2. 
Venison pastey, 147/489. 

Venprides, 171/820. ? 

Ventes, 273/13, anus; p. 276,1. 
3 from foot 

Venure, 147/489, beast that is 
hunted. 

Vewter, 320/631, fewterer ; * in 
hunting or coursing, the man 
who held the dogs in slips or 
couples, and loosed them ; a 



dog-keeper.* Halliwell. Vaul- 
tre, a mongrel between a hound 
and a maistiffe ; fit for the chase 
of wild bears and boars. Cot. 
* The Gaulish hounds of which 
Martial and Ovid speak, termed 
vertagi, OTveltres, appear to have 
been greyhounds,, and hence 
the appellations veltro^ ItaL, 
viautre, vauUrey Fr., Welter^ 
Germ. The Promptorium gives 
"Grehownde, veltres*^ p. 209. 
Various details regarding the 
duties of the " foutreres," and 
"^heir fee, or share of the pro- 
duce of the chace, will be found 
in the Mayster of Game, Vesp. 
B. xii., fol. 99, 104, b.* Way 
in Promptorium^ p. 291. 

Verjuice, 174/841, 843. 

Verjuice, p. 273, 282/9, at foot. 

Veijuice, the sauce for boiled 
capon, Ac., 152/634 ; for crab, 
168/596 ; with goose, 278/3. 

Vemage, 126/118; p. 203, No. 
1 ; 267/22. 
Eyche she tham drewe 
Vemage and Crete. 
Sir Degrevant, p. 236, L 1408, 
L 1703. 

Vemagelle, 125/118 ; p. 203, 
No. 2. 

Viant, 149/501, Imeat. 

Viaunt, frutilre, 164/689, meat 
fritters 1 

Vicars, rank of, 187/1031. 

Vice, avoid, 11. 64/299. 

Vilony, 16/8 ; 17/10, discourtesy, 
rudeness ; p. 12, L V. 

Vinegar, 173/835 ; 174/847; II. 
44/141-2. 

Vinegar as a sauce, 152/536. 

Vinegar for crayfish, 159/611. 



128 



INDEX. 



Vines, tender, with goose, 278/2. 

Virtue, the first of, 344/493. 

Viscount, rank of, 186/1013: 
188/1049. 

Vngiyjt, 324/751, undished 1, not 
uncooked. 

Vnhynde, 301/80, ungentle, un- 
courteous. 

Vnkende, 326/816, ? unsuitably; 
A.S. uncynd^ unnatural, un- 
suitable. 

Vnkunnynge, 3/64, want of 
knowledge. 

Vnskilfully, 50 / 87, without 
reason ; O.N. sfdl, reason. 

Voider, 67/13, 16 ; 68/7, and 
note. *A Voider to take vp 
the fragmentes, vascvlum frag- 
mentarium, analactarium, vd 
aristophorum,* Withals. Fr. 
Portoire, Any thing that helpes 
to carry another thing ; as 
a Voyder^ Skep, Scuttle, 
Wheelebarrow, &c. Cotgrave. 

Voider, put your scraps into it, 
23/131 ; one to be on the 
table, 342/376, 358 ; 343/382. 

Vomit away from company, 295 

/1 17. 

Vomiting is useful, II. 64/269. 
Voyd, 166/716, clear. 

Voydance, 13/20. -The side-note 
is doubtless wrong; the get- 
ting it out of the way applies 
to the snetyng of the line 
above. 

Voyder, 23/131, vessel to empty 
bones and leavings into. 

Vrbanttatis, p. 13-15. 

Vre, 194/1173 ; 348/716, custom^ 
practice. 

Vrinal, 253/15, a glass vessel in 
which urine could be looked at 



I and through* 

VmeUe, 179/926 ; 182/971 ; Fr. 
Vrinal^ an Vrinall ; al«), a 
Jordan, or Chamberpot. Cot 

Wade not too deep, 10/21 : p. 
12, L W. 

Wadrop, 312/429, wardrobe. 

Wafers to eat, 166/716; 168/ 
759; 171/816; 271/11; 280 
/19 ;' II. 38/54. 

Wag your head, don't, 80/331. 

Wager, don't lay with your lord, 
306/227. 

Wages, pay your servants', 43/ 
139. 

Wages of grooms and yeomen 
kept account of by the Clerk 
of the Kitchen, 317/566 ; of 
grooms and pages, 319/617-20 ; 
paid by the Treasurer, 318/ 
586. 

Wait till you're served, II. 26/9 ; 
II. 31/14. 

Wait for grace before rising, II. 
28/31. 

Waiting servant ; Khodes's direc- 
tions for him, p. 82-104. 

Walk gently in the morning, p. 
256. 

Walk decently, 296/157. 

Wall, don't make it your mirror, 
26, 27/11 ; IL 30/4. 

Walle-wort, 184/992. 

Walnuts, take only two or three, 
II. 5/67 ; II. 19/73. 

Waloande, 301 / 63, guggling, 
speaking with the mouth fiill. 

Wand, teeth not to be picked 
with, 302/94. 

Wanhope, 119/30, despair. 

Wanton laughing is wrong, 27/20. 



INDEX, 



. 129 



Wanton stories, bad for youth, 
p. 64. 

Wantons, young, want hanging, 
p. 241. 

Warden of a craft, 194/1160. 

Wardrobe, 180/940; is in the 
Usher's charge, 315/479. 

Wardrop, 318/565. 

Wardropere, 315/481, keeper of 
the wardrobe. 

Warm water to wash hands in, 
178/902. 

Warm your clothes in winter, p. 
259. 

Warme, 51/114, comfortably ; 
A.S. wearm, warm. 

Warming-pan, p. 252, last line. 

War-time, a servant's duty in, II. 
24/121. 

Wash before going to bed, a lord 
does, 316/513. 

Wash in summer, not winter, p. 
254. 

Wash on rising, 73/80 ; 338/ 
74; before eating, 309/343; 
II. 3/5; 11. 9/8; 11. 16/7; 
II. 34/21 ; 11. 26/4 ; II. 30/ 
11 ; before leaving the table, 
22/84 ; after dinner, 81/356 ; 
after meals, 8/193; p. 258; 
II. 8/55. 

Washing after dinner, how done, 
p. 68; 343/403-416; II. 38/ 
64-72. 

Washing directed, p. 246; p. 
255. 

Washing, the good of, II. 52/ 
265. 

Wastable, 129/179. 

Waste not, 10/20; p. 12, 1. W; 
20/56. 

Wastours' — rioters' — company, 
avoid, 35/27. 



Wate, 324/739, know. 

Water, how to assay, 323/702. 

Water, Ewerer to give, to all, 
321/643. 

Water, effect of, II. 48/203. 

Water for the teeth, W. Vaughan's, 
p. 250. 

Water-leech, slippers to be brown 
like one, 176/874. 

Watery, 134/282. 

Wax, all candles & morters of, 
327/827-33. 

Wayte, 133/265, watch; 144/436, 
take care. 

Wayue, 308/322, glance, move, 
let wander. 

Weakening things, II. 48/194-9. 

Wearisome, 168/751. 

Weelde, 43/150, wielding, com- 
mand. 

Weldsomly, 118/17, at will. 

Welke, 7narceOfioweYke,9icut flar- 
es, marcidv^y welked. emerceo, 
to wax drie and welkynge. 
Gloss. Reliq. Ant v. 1, p. 6. 

Wessayle and drynke heylle, p. 
44, 1. 4 from foot 

Wesselle clothes, 3 10/36 7,1 cloths, 
for vessells. 

Weste, Richard, his Sc/ioole of 
Vertve, referred to, p. 289; his 
acrostic, p. 290. 

Westminster, the Abbot of, 192/ 
1141. 

Wether or ram, p. 221, note on 
L 779. 

Wether mutton, II. 50/208. 

Whale, likes harmony, p. 232. 
Fr. Tinet: m. The Whall 
tearmed a Horlepoole, or 
Whirlepoole. Cot. 

Whale, roast, how to carve, 157/ 
581; salt, 173/837; 282/8. 



130 



INDEX. 



Wheat, operation of, II. 46/176 j 
II. 49/178. 

Whelk, how to carve a, 160/624. 

Whelks, 168/747 ; 280/17. Fr. 
l\irbiiL The shell-fish called a 
Welke or Winkle. Cot 

Whene, 317/548, 1 same as ctceme^ 
agreeable. 

WhUeere, 140/377, a time ago, 
before. 

Whils, 5/133, until 

Whisper, don't, 81/373 ; II. 11/ 
83; II. 19/71. 

Whispering, avoid it, 306/250. 

White bread, 123/92 ; 322/686. 

White herrings, 161/642. 

White payne or bread, 130/204. 

Whiting, 166/575 ; 174/845 ; 
how to carve, 281/6. 

Whole-footed fowls, skin of^ is 
wholesome, 279/19. 

Whot, 168/757, 1 white, not 
'^ hot," as in side note : cf 
blaundieUe, 166/714. 

Widgeon, 279/1. 

Wife, how to choose one, 50/73- 
80 ; how to use one, 50/81- 
1 1 2 ; is to honour her husband, 
307/267; takes her husband's 
rank, 190/1092. On the first of 
June, 1582, John Wolfe paid 
the Stationers' Companv Sd, for 
a licence "to imprinte two 
ballades," of which the latter 
was "a settinge forth of the 
variety of mens mindes, es- 
teaminge rather welth with a 
wanton wife, then vertue in 
a modeste mayde." ColUer^s 
Extracts, ii. 165. For variety 
in this entry, Mr Collier pro- 
poses to read vanity. See also 
the ballad. 



I Faine would I have a ver- 
tuous wife 
Adorned with all modestie, 
in Colliei^s Extracts^ L 162-3. 

Wight, 41/120, quick, nimble. 
Swed. vig, 

WUd, don't be, 38/58 ; 304/156. 

Wild boar, 164/686. 

Schebroujt fram the kychene 
A scheld of a wylde swyne, 
Hastelettus in ^autyne. 
Sir Degreimnt, p. 235, L 1397-9. 

Wind, let it out with secresy, 
296/145. 

Windows of a bedroom to be shut 
at night, p. 245. 

Wine, don't keep it waiting, IL 
5/59 ; IL 17/21. 

Wine, effect of; when old, II. 48/ 
184, /1 88 ; Hveiy of, 327/843. 

Wine, strong, mix water with it^ 

Wines, 124/109 ; sweet, p. 126 ; 
p. 202-7 ; the names of; p. 267. 

Wing, cut under, not over, in 
whole-footed birds, 278/5. 

Wings of smaller birds, the best 
bite, 143/418; 146/473. 

Winter, diet in, II. 54/286. 

Winter, the Device of; 168/766. 

Wipe your mouth before drinking, 

23/105. 
Wipe your nose, don't^ 25/141. 
Wise men, 332/12. 

Wisps of straw for bed-making, 
313/439. 

Wite, 40/96, wot, know, A.S. 
mUan, 

Withy leaves in a bath, 185/995. 

Wives gentle and curst, 86/151- 
160. Prov. Two pots a feast 
])resage, two women mickle 
rage. Cot. il Pot, 



INDEX. 



131 



Wives, tlie duty of, 354/9. 

Wolfskin garments for winter, p. 
255. 

Woman (?) not to sit at a 
Bishop's table, p. 329, No. x. 

Woman-kind, speak never un- 
courteously of, 306/259. 

Women good and bad discussed, 
p. 87-8. 

Woman's milk, 251/13. 

Wombelonge, 145/451, belly- 
wise, on its belly. 

Won, 319/605, supply. 

Wont, 304/190, wants, fails. 

Woodcock, 153/542; p. 214; 
165/697 ; 279/1 ; how to 
carve, 143/421 ; p. 277. 

Wooers, how to be treated, 37/ 
32. 

Woollen cloth to be bnished 
every week, 180/943. 

Work after meals to be avoided, 
p. 247. 

Worship God, 304/157. . 

WorshipfuUe, sb., 161/655, wor- 
shipful person. 

Worth, 23/114, estimation. 

Worthier men, let them be 
helped first, 14/45. 

Wortus, 150/617 ; A.S. wyrty 
vmrty 1. wort, a herb, plant, a 
general name for all sorts of 
herbs, scented flowers, and 
spices; 2. a root. (Bosworth.) 

Wralling, 293/60, wawling, cater- 
wauling, "quarrelling or con- 
tending with a loud voice." 
HalliwelL 

Wrap bread stately, how to, 269 
/lO. 

Wrappe, sb., L 212, cover. 

Wrappe, 130/212, wrap, cover. 



Wrapper, 131/224; 269/13. 

Wrast, 300/26, wresting, twist 

Wrathful words, beware of, 34/8. 

Wrawd, 158/590, froward. 

Wren, to be bled according to 
her veins, 45/177 ; pp. Ixx., 
Ixxi. 

Wrestling, girls not to go to a, 

40/81. 

Wrinkled countenances to be 
avoided, 292/41. 

Wry not your neck askew, 135/ 
285. 

Wyn, 313/447; A.S. tryn, joy, 
pleasure. 

Wyneberries, 122/78; p. 201. 

Wynge, p. 266, carve. 

Wynke, 50/72, sleep; A.S. 
wineiany to bend one's self, 
nod, wink. 

Wynkyn de Worde's Boke of 
Keruyiigey p. 261-88. 

Wynkynge, 134/282. 

Wynne, 21/79 ; A.S. t«n, labour 
(not tryw, tnw, pleasure). 

Wyt, 19/41, wyl, wiU. 

Jane, 38/56, yawn ; A.S. gaman. 

Yardehok, 183/991. 

Yawn not, 135/294; when you 
do, hide behind a napkin, 293 
/82. ^ 

Y-chaflfed, 177/893, warmed ; Fr. 
chauffS. 

Ycoruyn, 325/766, carved, cut 

Yeoman of the Crown, 187/1033. 

Yeoman-usher is under the 
marshal, 311/383. 

Yeomen in hall, 300/27. 

Yerbis, 164/687, herba 

3ett, 138/339, formerly?, see L 
204. 



132 



INDEX. 



Yjes, 151/627, eyes. 

Ygraithed, 131/225, prepared. 

Ynons, 156/569 ; p. 214, onions. 

Yn-same, 22/93, in the same 
way. Cut out the hyphen, 

Jomon of charahur, 315/507. 

3omon-ussher, sleeps all night on 
the floor at his lord's door, 
316/519. 

York, Archbp. of, 189/1078 ; 
Bps. of, L 108L 

Youth, if lawless, old age de- 
spised, 332/U. 

Youth, take pains m, 90/309. 

Ypocras, how to make it, p. 125- 



8 ; p. 267. 

Ypocias, 168/759 ; 280/19. 

Ypocras to drynk, 166/715. 

Yoxinge, 1 35/298, note *. I yeskcy 
I gyue a noyse out of my 
stomacke. Je englotife. When 
he yesketh next, tell hym some 
straunge newes, and he shaU 
leave it. Palsg. 

Ypullished, 120/63, polished. 

Yse, 197/1222, look at 

Ywys, 1/12 ; A.S. gem's, cer- 
tainly. 

Zole, 167/737, sole 1 



JOUK CHILDS AND SON, PBINTBttS. 



WRIGHT'S CHASTE WIFK 

Mr C. H. Pearson has supplied me with the immediate original 
of this story. Ho says, "The Wright's Chaste Wife is a repro- 
duction of one of the Gesta Roinanorum, cap. 69, de Castitate, ed. 
Keller. The Latin story begins, * Gallus regnavit prudens valde.' 
The Carpenter gets a shirt with his wife, which is never to want 
washing unless one of them is unfaithful. The lovers are three 
Knights (milltes), and they are merely kept on bread and water, not 
made to work ; nor is any wife introduced to see her Lord's discom- 
fiture. The English version, therefore, is much quainter and fuller of 
incident than its original. But the 'morality' of the Latin story is rich 
beyond description. * The wife is holy Mother Church,' *the carpenter 
is the good Christian,' * the shirt is our Faith, because, as the apostle 
says, it is impossible to please God without faith.' The Wright's work 
typifies * the building up the pure heart by the works of mercy.' The 
three Knights are * the pride of life, the lust of the eyes, and the lust 
of the flesh.' * These you must shut up in the chamber of penance till 
you get an eternal reward from the eternal King.' ' Let us therefore 
pray God,' &c." 



KniOUT IKDCKIKO 




WASUura BiroKi IiiiririK. Imp. Lib. Fute. US. Ko. MSg. " Llcre dc la Vie HnmilDr." Wrifdit,p.lM. 



Monastic UKrarions. slotae i 

No.iM». ted. t4 ti. Ab.l3§0l,D, 

Wrigtai.p. IM. (The cm (kw no h 




LIT)*' Wii^I, p. la. 



imsnuil'iUcdiitTal An. Wriafa(.p.lE 



Hebop and Ukkodiai. Hurt. >U. No. IKH. Ab. 1W>« « d. Wrlgbi, p. Ii 



o HUOD AID aii DadsbTik HibopIas. Eiily Utb Ctntory. X!i. K((|. 3, B. Til. 



MH, Rtf. 10. E 1>. Ulb Ctnlnry. Wcigtatt t' II 



■0 SVPPIR AMD BlSllUBT. or 



EDBooH ScIHE. Willi ■ Hulch Or TnaHm Clwm. 

Jnm ( IStli Centoty latin Bibla. 

IiDp.Lib.FMig,No.«8». W[j(^p.Ma. 




Lu>I IK JIED. 

From lbs lEUi Csalnr? Ladn Bi 
ND-SaWilKiva. WTi«jit,Mll 



A COUMTUS OF THE IGTB 



^ 



