
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



PRACTICAL WATER-FARMING. 



Printed by R. Clark, 

FOR 

EDMONSTON & DOUGLAS. EDINBURGH. 

LONDON . . HAMILTON, ADAMS, AND CO. 

CAMBRIDGE . . MACMILLAN AND CO. 

DUBLIN . . . M*GLASHAN AND GILL. 

GLASGOW . . . JAMES MACLBHOSE. 



PRACTICAL 



WATER-FARMING 



BY 

WM PEARD, M.D., LLB. 




EDINBURGH 

EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS 

1868 



1. a. 



PKEFACE. 



Amonost the topics of the day, few are 
practically of greater importance than the 
"Food question." The high price of pro- 
yisions tells its own tale with an emphasis 
that attests its reality, and defies cavil ; the 
supply is inadequate to the demand. This 
dogma, more or less true of all articles of 
consumption, is pre-eminently true of animal 
food, and we need the active co-operation of 
every art that can increase the quantity. It 
is vain to expect any laige addition from the 
pastures and feeding-stalls of these kingdoms. 
Holland and the northern ports send us live 
stock. The rich savannahs of South America 



vi Preface. 

export extractum camis, salt beef, and 
charki; and more recently Australia has 
given us from her abundance a very palatable 
article in hermetically sealed tins. But 
these supply our wants in about the same 
proportion that a shower of rain raises the 
level of the sea. What we require is an 
amount of animal food which shall come 
directly within the reach of the poor con- 
sumer; and eventually, by effecting other 
nitrogenous products, give our labourer and 
artizan a diet far superior to that which he 
and his family now enjoy. However largely 
foreign countries, hereafter, may contribute, 
there appears little prospect of their satis- 
fying our requirements for the present. We 
are compelled, therefore, to look at home for 
what we are not likely to obtain from abroad. 
It is plain our meadows and homesteads can 
make no adequate addition to our resources ; 
the productive powers of the land — already 
taxed to the utmost — have proved insuflBcient, 



Preface. vii 

and we tum^ almost of necessity^ to the waters. 
Hitherto these have been r^arded, by those 
who won their bread fix)m river and fore- 
shore^ much in the same light that the 
Pawnee and the Delaware r^arded the 
prairies and primeval forest — ^hunting-grounds 
where all that could be caught might be 
killed with impunity. Fish were looked on 
as Fer(B naturcBy and since it is an inevit- 
able law that these melt away before the 
£Etce of man^ the stock in our salmon- 
streams dwindled and dwindled^ whilst the 
oyster almost disappeared from its natural 
beds. 

In this crisis^ aqueculture lifted up its 
voice to protest against the madness of such 
proceedings^ suggesting that our waters 
should be converted into &rms^ and the 
FercB naturcB be in a manner reclaimed and 
brought under the care of man^ just as 
centuries ago our present domestic stock 
succeeded the wild cattle and fed a nation^ 



viii Preface. 

where before a few painted savages only sup- 
ported a precarious existence. 

The little work now offered to the reader 
is but a sketch. The art it endeavours to 
illustrate is youngs vigorous, and expansive, 
and will pass through many phases before 
aU points of principle and practice are finally 
settled. It is believed, however, that " Prac- 
tical Water- Farming," whilst eschewing 
theory, embodies all that is known, that no 
fSeu^ has been omitted, and enough has been 
said to lead to great results. 

What pisciculture wants is a fair and fiill 
trial Hitherto it has never been adopted 
in its entirety. Parts of the system have 
been tried at Galway, Stormontfield, and 
other fisheries, and wherever so tried, have 
been found to answer even beyond expecta- 
tion. Yet this partial adoption of a com- 
prehensive plan cannot be said to give the 
art a fair trial. It is as if one agriculturist 
gave his sole attention to drainage ; a second 



Preface. ix 

to fencing; whilst a third confined himself 
to experimenting on manures^ or devoted his 
time to the study of farm-implements. But 
would this partial acceptance of the facts 
and doctrines of husbandry make landlord 
or tenant succeed in the present day ? We 
think not. 

This hypothesis seems exactly a parallel 
case. Water-farming, to yield a fiill harvest, 
must be conducted with skill, care, and at 
least with some proportion of the capital 
now employed on the land. We constantly 
hear of this or that river being enrolled into 
the great sisterhood of the salmon -states. 
That aU may prosper to the uttermost, is 
our earnest desire, but that they may suc- 
ceed, we warn proprietors and lessees to 
avoid half- measures. Skill, capital, and 
enterprise, underlie all commercial pro- 
sperity, nor are they less necessary to 
successful water-farming. False economy is 
only another name for waste, and if there is 



X Preface. 

one axiom more applicable than another to 
pisciculture^ it is : ^^ that which is worth 
doing at all, is worth doing well." 



13 Hbnbibtta Strebt, Bath, 
20th March 1868. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER I. 
Aquecultuie Past and Present ... 1 



CHAPTER II. 
" Unity is Strength " .... 11 

CHAPTER III. 
The Hampshire Avon — " Our Model Farm.*' 24 

CHAPTER IV. 
Family Matters 39 

CHAPTER V. 
Our Friend's History 51 

CHAPTER VI. 
The Artificial System . . . . q3 

CHAPTER VII. 
Results 74 



xii Contents. 

CHAPTER VIII. 

PAGE 

Collecting the Seed 85 

CHAPTER IX. 
The Seed Grows — ^Work and Wages . . 95 

CHAPTER X. 

The Farm thrives — Kaising Funds — Our 
Second and Third Harvests — Balance- 
Sheet — ^We wind up Accounts, and leave 
the Company in a Prosperous Con- 

i dition 102 

CHAPTER XI. 
General Observations . . . . 108 

CHAPTER XII. 
Trout 116 

CHAPTER XIII. 
Trout 127 

CHAPTER XIV. 
Trout 139 

CHAPTER XV. 
Pond Fishes 151 



Contents. xiii 



CHAPTER XVI. 


PAO« 


Pike and Perch .... 


163 


CHAPTER XVII. 




Eels 


. 174 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

Oysters and Mussels — Causes which led to 
the Decline of our Open Oyster Beds 
— ^Public Attention is aroused — ^Private 
Enterprise steps in^ and is aided by 
Legislative Enactments . . .186 

CHAPTER XIX. 

Oysters and Mussels — Structure and Habits 
of the Oyster — General Observations — 
Extract from the Eeport of the Sea- 
Fisheries Commission . . . .200 

CHAPTER XX. 

A glance at British Oyster Pares — ^Their 

prospects 211 

CHAPTER XXI. 

Principles of Oyster-culture — ^A word about 

Mussels, Cockles, and Perriwinkles . 226 



xiv Contents. 



CHAPTER XXII. 

PAOB 

Lobsters and Crabs — ^Prawns and Shrimps — 

Qeneralities — De Necessitate 243 



CHAPTER I. 

AQUBCULTURE PAST AND PRESENT. 

In the dawn of the world's history, the prim- 
eval curse decreed that man should eat bread 
by the sweat of his brow, and as the ground 
was to bring forth briars and thorns, agricul- 
ture became, not only the destiny, but the 
necessity, of our race. 

When the earth was " in the flower of her 
age," it may well be imagined that a virgin 
soil richly repaid the rude efforts of its eariy 
cultivators ; but with the lapse of ages an ever- 
increasing population demanded improved 
methods of tillage, and at length the growing 
requirements of mankind elevated an employ- 
ment once merely mechanical into a science. 

But whilst the cultivation of the soil is 
coeval with creation, the idea of farming the 
water seems by comparison only a thing of 



2 Practical Water-Farming. 

to-day. Want and the demands of luxury 
have ever been the parents of discovery. 
China, though often cited as an example of 
national permanence, without progression, 
imdoubtedly possessed many of the useful 
arts centuries before the barbarous warriors 
of Europe acknowledged their utility or 
dreamed of their existence; and amongst 
these arts pisciculture held a prominent 
position. With a teeming population, the 
great food-question must always have been a 
problem difficult of solution in the Celestial 
Empire. Men cannot always live on rice, 
and the country was too minutely parcelled 
out, and too diligently cultivated, to support 
a stock of the ferm naturw adequate to the 
wants of the nation. Under these circum- 
stances, it would be natural to suppose that 
a people so ingenious should early have 
sought from the water what the land denied ; 
and, on inquiry, we find that aqueculture 
actually existed in Chma centuries before 
luxury gave birth to it in civilised Rome. 
It is not necessary here to enter at length 



Aqaecultwre Past and Present 3 

into the question of Chinese water-culture. 
Amongst that mysterious people, imchanged 
and unchanging, the practice has evidently 
come down from remote antiquity. What 
they are to-day they were two thousand 
years ago — ^the same in arts and ignorance, 
craft and self-sufficiency, barbarism and 
civilisation ; the same in religion, policy, and 
arms ; and the same, doubtless, in pisciculture. 
Travellers have spoken of the large number 
offish reared in the inundated paddy-grounds. 
Again, we hear that " from time immemorial " 
this inventive race, by means of brushwood 
arranged in suitable parts of their rivers, col- 
lected the spawn deposited about the dams, 
placed it in vessels, and sold to all who de- 
sired either to utilise barren water or increase 
the supply of fish in their lakes and rivers. 
Whether the breeders fed their young stock 
seems imcertain; it is probable, however, 
they did not omit so obvious a means to in- 
sure success. But, granting this, they were 
still inmieasurably behind the pisciculturists 
of to-day. There is no evidence to prove they 



4 Practical Water-Farming. 

employed filtered water — that they studied 
the nature and habits of the animals they 
kept, or guarded against the ruinous attacks 
of aquatic insects — that they had any fixed 
annual periods calculated to prevent undue 
waste — that they attempted to improve the 
beds of streams, or make or increase their 
natural spawning-grounds. In short, whilst 
we cannot but admire the early discoveries of 
the ancients, we are obliged to confess their 
practice fell far below the comprehensive 
views of the modems. 

What necessity created in Asia, luxury 
and prodigality originated independently in 
Europe. The conquerors of the world in the 
days of the empire had learned to lavish a 
fortune on an entertainment. Not only did 
every tributary land furnish delicacies for 
the table, but the seas also were compelled 
to give up their treasures. There is nothing 
new under the sun. Within the last few 
years great fishery cases have occupied our 
courts ; the most cunning lawyers, the most 
eloquent counsel, have been engaged in the 



AqtiecuUure Past and Present. 5 

defence and attack ; yet, nearly two thousand 
years ago, the first legal talent of old Rome 
was occupied m assailing the monopoly of 
mullet, or protecting the rights of proprietors 
of oyater-parcs. 

Every classic scholar, whose reading has 
carried him a little out of the ordinary track, 
knows to what an extent fish-breeding was 
followed on the foreshores of Italy, in order 
to supply the wants of rich and extravagant 
patricians. Around their viQas these men 
had stews and pounds, as our country gentle- 
men have pheasant-covers or trout-streams, 
and, like them, doubtless often conversed 
about the efiect of the season on the health 
and condition of "the game." Not content, 
however, with fattening fresh -water fish, 
these epicureans, by means of canals and 
sluices communicating with the sea, culti- 
vated various kinds of marine luxuries, and 
in short, did much that we now think of 
doing. Some idea of the value attached 
to such property may be formed from the 
following extract : — 



6 Practical Water-Farming. 

" Pliny tells us " (we cannot do better 
than quote from Mr. Francis) "that the 
fish-ponds made by Lucullus were sold for 
four millions of sestertii — a sum equal to 
£32,291 : 13 : 4 of our money. This will 
convey some idea of the height to which 
luxury and expenditure were carried in this 
taste; and if we further take the relative 
value of money then and now into con- 
sideration, the outlay is enormous. These 
ponds were situated at Lucullus's house at 
Tusculum, and were supplied with salt water 
by means of canals cut from the sea ; his 
example was followed by others of the Roman 
patricians, whose villas were situated on the 
borders of the gulfs of Baiae and Naples, and 
the practice became fashionable." 

Century after century men display the 
same strength and weakness, the same afiec- 
tions, the same appetites; and the cry of 
" Oysters ! Grata oysters ! Oysters, ho ! " 
probably resounded along the streets of the 
imperial city, as it now does in the thorough- 
fares of our own " Great Babylon." 



Aqueculture Past and Present. 7 

If we look nearer our own times^ we shall 
see how largely fish-culture must have been 
carried on in Britain. Eveiy inland conyent 
and monastery possessed its ponds and mill- 
damSy which, if the number of religious 
houses be taken into consideration, ought to 
have yielded largely indeed, to have supplied 
the wants of the Church. When &sting 
went out of fashion, under the reforming 
hands of bluff King Hal, pisciculture began 
to wane. Ecclesiastical property fell into the 
possession of laymen; meres were drained, 
tanks choked with mud, reeds took root, and 
moor-hens and frogs soon represented "the 
live stock." 

Attached to the manor-houses of our 
country gentry, preserves for carp and tench 
were still to be found ; and here fish-culture 
lingered for a century or two. Suddenly 
steam and the rail burst upon us ; ice as a 
preserving medium came into use. Salmon 
from distant rivers appeared in our towns; 
fish from the ocean found its way to inland 
districts; in short, a superior conmiodity 



8 Practical Water-Farming. 

came into the market^ and the last faint 
spark of water-culture was at once quenched. 
These instances are sufficient to prove that^ 
whilst aqueculture is a new word, it only 
represents an art long recognised. The ne- 
cessity for such tillage has increased an 
hundredfold since the first water-farm was 
enclosed, and howerer closely the supply of 
animal food may have kept pace with the 
demand at an earlier period, yfefeel that in 
the present day the deficit is lamentably 
great. Humanity shudders at the fact, law 
and order deplore it; for, whilst enduring 
hunger, men are apt to forget their moral 
and social obligations. A race such as ours 
requires support beyond what mere vegetable 
diet can supply. Nor can our countrymen 
be deprived of a higher order of food, with- 
out inflicting a sensible injury on socieiy. 
Epidemics find their victims more frequently 
amongst the ill-fed than amongst those who, 
though living in localities notoriously un- 
healthy, are yet better nourished. Insufficient 
nutriment promotes and extends disease. If 



Aqueculture Past and Present 9 

men are fed like brutes, experience shows 
they are apt to live like them, and semi- 
starvation is at the bottom of half the crime 
which fills our gaols, and fourth-fifths of the 
sin that flaunts along our streets. 

Can this be avoided? I believe it can 
in a great degree. Present prices make 
animal food an unapproachable luxury to 
thousands and tens of thousands of our 
population. Our pastures are taxed to the 
uttermost point of production; every rood 
of ground contributes its full share towards 
supplying the butcher. It is in vain to 
expect more from the land, but we have a 
right to look for something from the water. 
Let us inquire, therefore, what may reason- 
ably be expected from aqueculture towards 
supplying the deficit. 

The art of to-day is widely different in its 
origin and aims from that whose rise and 
progress we have briefly sketched, and whose 
decay we have hastily chronicled. It has 
again been warmed into life by the necessities 
of a great people, fostered by the example 



10 Practical Water-Farming. 

and exertions of a few good and far-seeing 
men, and is now cherished by philosophy, 
capital, and science. True, the art is but in 
its infancy, yet it is no eflFete second child- 
hood. It will live, and flourish, and grow 
into a manhood so great and beneficent, that 
we who now only see the babe in weakness 
can form little idea of what its maturity will 
bring forth. 

"Practical Water-Farming" is intended 
to be confined to no one speciality. We 
shall treat alike of salt and fresh water ; of 
rivers and lakes, meres and ponds ; brooks, 
rivulets, and mill-dams. 

The present introductory chapter has, 
almost of necessity, been general, sketchy, 
and unpractical. In the next we shall glance 
at our barren rivers, and then enter into 
detail on the choice and construction of a 
salmon-farm. 



CHAPTER II. 



The great and increasing value of many 
Scotch and Irish rivers naturally suggests the 
inquiry, " Can nothing be done to fertilise 
the vast majority of our streams ?" To this 
question a definite answer may be given — 
Ninety streams out of every hundred can be 
profitably cultivated, and in the ratio of their 
size are capable of being made as productive 
as any to be found north of the Tweed or in 
the sister kingdom. But it is an egregious 
error to suppose that either in Ireland or 
Scotland any water-farms are in the highest 
state of cultivation. Each country possesses 
many good salmon-rivers, more indifferent 
ones, and a still greater number which are 
practically worthless. Even the best of them 
might easily be made to yield infinitely more 



12 Practical Water-Farming. 

than they do at present, and the rest are 
capable of rapid, certain, and vast improve- 
ment. Most of the Welsh streams still hold 
salmon. The Wye shows a steady annual 
increase. The Usk at the present moment is 
fairly stocked with breeding fish, and even 
our English rivers contain a " scattered rem- 
nant;" in short, though many of our water- 
farms have to be created, a large number re- 
quire only to be improved. 

But here, at first starting, a diflSculty 
meets us — a difficulty unconnected with the 
actual capabilities or cultivation of our 
streams, but so important and essential to a 
proper understanding of salmon-farming in 
its practical aspect, that we are compelled to 
give it precedence. The details of salmon- 
culture may require modification to suit the 
requirements of particular streams and locali- 
ties ; but the general difficulty to which we 
have referred applies equally to all. It is, in 
fact, the difficulty of uniting — the old fable 
of the bundle of sticks over again. 

The landed proprietor reigns over his 



Unity is Strength. 13 

broad acres as an absolute potentate. Every- 
thing on the surface is at his disposal; all 
below the surface calls him master. The 
position of the aqueculturist, however, is far 
less favourable, and unfortunately the dis- 
advantages under which he labours are in- 
separable from the property he wishes to 
cultivate. His estate does not lie within a 
ring-fence, but rather resembles a piece of 
ground parcelled out under the allotment 
system, where each man works single-handed 
for himself, without much regard to the 
interest of his neighbours; where each has 
more foes than friends, and where conflicting 
interests and petty jealousies reign supreme. 
No stream of any magnitude runs entirely 
through a single property. On the contrary, 
it is certain to be possessed by many owners, 
and it is from this subdivision that the pisci- 
culturist's early troubles arise. Yet these 
separate interests must become one and in- 
divisible if " the farm " is to be a success. 

He has to deal with the timid and the 
obstinate; to conciliate prejudice; smooth 



14 Practical Water-Farming. 

down self-will; to convince the intelligent, 
and convert the ignorant. In short, he must 
deal successfully with men of opposite opi- 
nions, inclinations, and tempers. These dis- 
cordant elements must be welded into one 
mass, and joined in " sweet accord " by the 
magic link of self-interest. To achieve this 
may be difficult, yet the task is by no means 
insurmountable ; at any rate, the difficulty 
must be encountered, and if met with patience 
and courtesy, will generally vanish. Time, 
however, will remove this stumbling-block 
from the path of future reformers, either by 
legislation, example, or a clearer view of self- 
interest. Each successful labour of to-day 
will macadamise the road for to-morrow, and 
every new foot that passes over it will render 
the way more smooth. I have dwelt at some 
length on this point, because unity is essential 
to success. With it, everything may be ac- 
complished ; mthout it, disappointment must 
ensue, or at the best so small an amount of 
benefit will be obtained as to be tantamount 
to failure. 



Unity is Strength. 15 

Let us for a moment regard the question 
from a slightly different point of view, and 
suppose a landlord to attempt the improve- 
ment of his water-property single handed. 
He may spend money on artificial hatching, 
remove such impediments from the bed of the 
stream as exist within his own bounds, and 
what will be the result ? Briefly this — that 
whilst he sows, others will reap the harvest. 
Perhaps he may persevere for a time, but the 
end is inevitable. Disappointed in a design 
which, whether considered morally or com- 
mercially, is alike prudent and beneficent, he 
abandons the task in disgust, and property 
which might have been improved for the 
common good speedily sinks back into the 
unproductive state from which he strove in 
vain to raise it. But if we suppose him to 
have succeeded in binding all the proprietors 
in the bonds of one common interest, then, 
indeed, his way is plain, and success all but 
certain. The body of landholders in effect 
have become a great joint-stock company. 
Why then should they not govern themselves 



16 Practical Water-Farming. 

by the laws which prevail in such societies, 
— appoint a chairman and small working 
committee, with powers to arrange and allot 
shares in the ratio of the ripal rights of each 
landed proprietor, and make the necessary 
calls for improving and stocking the farm? 
When arrangements are so far matured, a 
handsome dividend will only be a matter of 
time, which can be calculated with sufficient 
certainty. The money question, involving 
profit and outlay, will more conveniently come 
under our notice when our " model farm " is 
in working order. 

If we glance for a moment at the labours 
of the "United Association for Preserving 
the Fisheries of the Severn and its Tribu- 
taries," and see what they have accomplished, 
and where they have fallen short of complete 
success, I believe we shall find an argument 
of the greatest weight in support of the "joint- 
stock doctrine." 

On the 30th of August 1843, this associa- 
tion—consisting of the landlords, occupiers 
of land, and residents of all classes in the 



Unity is Strength. 17 

counties of GlouceBter, Worcester, Salop, 
Montgomeiy, and, generally, throughout the 
entire district of the Vale of the Severn and 
Teme — ^was instituted; its object being the 
reformation of the fisheries. 

The anniversary of the association was to 
be held on the 30th of August, on which day 
the committee were to make their report, and 
the treasurer produce an audited account of 
the funds. The afiairs of the association 
were to be managed by the central committee, 
and this central committee had power to ap- 
point firom its number a sub-committee, to 
carry on the business of the association. 

District committees were appointed, to- 
gether with a general chairman, treasurer, 
and secretary, also conservators and under- 
keepers. 

"The chief advantages," we quote from 
the secretary's masterly report, " of a central 
association, with district branches oygt sepa- 
rate societies, lies in the means it presents 
of carrying into effect one uniform system 
for preserving the fisheries in all counties 



18 PracHcal Water-Farming. 

through which the Severn and its tributaries 
flow." 

" Nor does the central system involve the 
loss of the slightest advantage presented by 
the separate plan. The district committees 
are self-governed; they expend their own 
money, appoint their own officers and ser- 
vants, and, in a word, entirely regulate their 
own affairs. Their connection with the central 
conmiittee takes away no power available for 
any good purpose. On the contrary, it gives 
strength, energy, and uniformity. 

" The association deem that it will appear 
evident from the foregoing summary, that an 
Act of Parliament, including all the useful 
enactments of former statutes, and embracing 
all the rivers of England and Wales, is im- 
peratively called for." 

Let it be rememl^ered that this was writ- 
ten twenty-three years ago, at a period when 
the countiy took little interest in the ques- 
tion, and we believe few will deny that it is 
due to the wisdom, activity, enterprise, and, 
above all, to the perseverance of the com- 



Unity is Strength. 19 

mittee, that our riyers possess their present 
vitality. 

The labours of the committee were inde- 
fatigable. Weirs were made passable for the 
fish^ endless correspondence carried on with 
the commissioners and engineers belonging 
to the Seyem navigation, and Mr. Andrew 
Toung of Invershin was engaged to inspect 
the river at a large expense. Their attempts 
in 1846 to cany a bill through Parlia- 
ment for the regulation of the fisheries of 
England and Wales would form matter for 
a volume. Their dauntless perseverance un- 
der disappointment and discouragement is 
above all praise; little by little they suc- 
ceeded in their arduous struggle against the 
weirs, and at length triumphed by making 
them perfectly passable. 

In 1863 the secretary wrote, "The Cen- 
tral Committee of the United Association for 
the Protection of the Fisheries of the River 
Severn and its Tributaries congratulate the 
association on its new vigour, which, there 
can be no doubt, has been brought about by 
the passing of the Act of 1861." 



20 Practical Water-Farming. 

Such is the modest record of their labours 
and their success. From the forgoing ana- 
lysis^ it appears that the committee made 
the Severn passable for salmon from the 
source to the sea; that they preserved 
strictly ; suppressed fixed engines ; abolished 
illegal nets; were mainly instrumental in 
procuring our present excellent law ; finally, 
that the whole river and its tributaries, with 
the greater portion of the estuary, have by their 
exertions at length been formed into a fisheiy 
district, in pursuance of the provisions of the 
recent salmon act. And ndw it may fairly 
be asked, "Have these measures produced 
all the advantages that might have been 
expected ? in short, has the river, under these 
favourable circumstances, attained a ftdl de- 
velopment ? The answer, we fear, must be 
less satisfactory than could be wished. Doubt- 
less the Severn has slowly and gradually 
improved, still its returns fall infinitely short 
of what they ought to be. The length of 
the river, with its tributaries, has been cal- 
culated at about 500 nules, and this great 



Unity is Strength. 21 

extent of water might reasonably be expected 
to yields under ^^the natural process^" 250 
tons of fish per annnm, whereas it is much to 
be doubted whether a fifth part of that 
amount finds its way to the maiket. 

During the past season the writer spent 
sereral weeks in the inspection of the Seyem^ 
and^ amongst other things, endeayoured to 
ascertain the number of fish taken. All the 
lessees returned the same answer, ^'That 
sahnon grew more scarce eyery year, and that 
the take barely paid the rent. " This, howeyer, 
was well known to be untrue, for, beyond 
question, these fish have steadily increased, 
though the exact degree in which they haye 
multiplied is still a mystery. 

Eyeiything a committee could do has 
been done for the Seyem. To what cause, 
then, are we to attribute the &ct, that their 
long labours haye not resulted in a more 
complete success ? — ^why, simply, that they 
wanted power to enforce unity. Each 
proprietor leased his water to men who, 
haying no permanent interest in the riyer. 



22 Practical Water-Farming. 

killed without compunction every salmon 
they could catchy and so it came to pass that 
the stock was kept down, and the develop- 
ment of this noble river sadly retarded. The 
fishery required a liberal application of the 
artificial system, as well as the careful economy 
of breeding fish, in order to produce an ap- 
proximation towards an adequate stock ; but 
without unity this was impossible, and to the 
want of this principle the comparative failure 
of the Severn is, we believe, alone referable. 

This stream, at least as large as any 
in the kingdom, possesses many physical 
peculiarities favourable to the safety of the 
salmon. Its depth and width, together with 
the irregularities of its bed, combine to make 
netting uncertain. Yet even with these 
advantages, aided by a vigilance never ex- 
ceeded, the fish increase so slowly that a 
quarter of a century must elapse before this, 
the purest of our rivers, will possess anything 
approaching to an adequate stock. If, there- 
fore, the mdependent system is injurious here, 
what must it be elsewhere ? 



Unity is Strength. 23 

We have dwelt on this topic at some 
lengthy and shall cany it a little further, 
because we sincerely believe that unity is the 
point on which the prosperity of our rivers 
wiU hang. It is the cement which must bind 
many separate elements into one mass, the 
foundation on which water-farms can alone 
be built up successfully. 



CHAPTER III. 

THE HAMPSHIRE AVON. '^OUR MODEL 
FARM." 

The reader must pardon me if I again 
return for a moment to the subject of unily, 
and summon the Hampshire Avon to illus- 
trate its importance. This stream, the most 
productive in the couniy, yields annually 
about 750 salmon. Owing to the size of its 
spring fish, the average weight of each taken 
through the season is unusually large, being 
about 12 pounds, which would make the year's 
total, amount to a trifle less than four tons. 

Four tons only for such a river, backed 
by all the aid Imperial care and Imperial 
legislation can give! Can no favourable 
results be traced to the Act of 1861 ? Have 
the removal of fixed engines, the erection of 
passes, and increased weekly and annual 
close time, effected no improvement ? They 



Our Model Farm. 25 

h&Yenot Whyisihis? Because there is no 
vanty amongst the landed proprietors. The 
holders of property near the mouth lease the 
lirer for netting, and the upper heritors sweep 
the fords^ kill all they can, and so, by OTer- 
fishing neutralise the wise prorisions of 
recent acts. 

But it may be objected, ^^More salmon 
must now find their way up to the spawning 
beds than when they possessed less oppor- 
tunities of ascending the river ;" quite true, 
but they are not permitted to remain there, 
being mercilessly netted, though tinged 
with every shade of colour " from copper to 
carmine." What miserable fatuity is exhi- 
bited in such suicidal conduct. Everything 
the law could do for private and public 
advantage the law has done, but it cannot 
make men prudent. Our legislature tries its 
utmost to protect all descriptions of property, 
yet men eveiy day set it at defiance, and 
steal, defraud, and overreach one another, to 
the common loss and their own certain ruin. 
And what are they who act, as too many of 



26 Practical Water-Farming. 

our waterholders do, but amateur thieveB, 
who, for amusement, practise the art on their 
own pockets. 

The idea of profit to men so wealthy is 
absurd, for if pecuniary considerations exer- 
cised any influence on them, they would farm 
the property instead of merely sporting over 
it. At present the Avon, as a food-producer, 
is nil; but what would its production be if 
all the proprietors from the source to the sea 
were united? Then each man would take 
care that available passes were created over 
obstructions existing on his own property; 
everywhere, salmon hatching would be carried 
on, and preservation secured. Then, indeed, 
a mine of wealth would be opened, to be 
worked either by the proprietors, or leased on 
such terms as should be considered equit^ 
able, and in either case the profits divided in 
the ratio of ripal rights. Such dividend, we 
say, without fear of contradiction, would 
differ widely in amount from the paltry in^ 
come at present derived from the destruction 
of stock. Every man naturally desires to 



Our Model Farm. 27 

make the most of his property, but we feel 
conyinced the owners of water-rights have 
hitherto erred in the mode of doing so; 
when, however, they seriously reflect on the 
question, intellects so dear and cultiyated 
will not fiul to see that their property can 
alone develope its true value by union. But 
this desirable end can only be reached by 
wisdom and generosily walking hand in hand ; 
the proprietors at the head waters must share 
equally with the holders of land near the 
tideway. They who breed, must participate 
in the profits of those who catch the sahnon, 
for the fish cannot belong to any part of a 
river, though they should be taken at one spot, 
and one spot only, unless the water be of 
unusual extent Bred in the tributaries, 
they are fed in the sea, and so should be 
r^arded as a source of revenue to alL 

At present the income they yield is as 
nothing compared with what it might be, if 
a wiser and more enlightened policy were 
followed, and happy indeed should I be, if 
any poor words of mine could aid the in- 



28 Practical Water-Farming. 

corporation of the Hampshire Avon into the 
first great joint-stock riyer-fiEirm. 

Observation and science have already 
done a little for us, and would have effected 
much, had men heeded their teaching; but, 
unfortunately, in almost every instance, 
fishery proprietors have adopted their dicta 
only in part. For example — on one stream 
a small nursery has been erected ; on another, 
special care has been taken to remove all 
impediments to the passage of the fish ; on a 
third, existing spawning-beds have been im- 
proved ; on a fourth, they have been created. 
It is unnecessary to multiply instances of 
the partial acceptance of one great doctrine, 
which, to regenerate our exhausted waters, 
must b6 embraced in its entirety. 

Wiser in our generation, we will embody 
all points whose- practical importance has 
been proved by experience, and apply them 
to our " Model Farm." Though our aqueous 
freehold has neither a local habitation nor a 
name, it contams no hypothesis. The various 
stages through which it passes from barren- 



Our Model Farm. 29 

ness to fertilily are nearly all at this moment 
in operation on various riyers either at home 
or abroad, whilst the '' Balance-sheet " of our 
airy company is &r below that of a stream 
with which we have been long connected, 
and which has a course seyen miles shorter 
than that selected as the exponent of what 
a water-fiEtrm should be — ^aye and will be, 
before the world grows ten years older. 

A prudent landlord is not satisfied with 
the application of a smgle successful inyen- 
tion to his property. K he uses steam to 
reap the harvest, he will also employ it in 
preparing the ground for the reception of the 
seed; nor will he n^lect drainage, the 
erection of improved buildings, and the like. 
Now, a river is only a water-farm. Skill, 
capital, and labour, must all be brought to 
bear on it ; and if the reader will come with 
us, we will endeavour to show him how their 
application will result in a great commercial 
success. 

One word more, and we pass from general 
observations to our subject. The stream we 



30 Practical Water-Farming. 

design to cultivate must be supposed ne- 
glected, and nearly, if not entirely, barren ; 
to have a length from the source to the sea 
of thirty-two miles, and to possess no lacus- 
trine head. We are in some sort pioneers, 
about to reclaim a portion of the wilderness. 
This will afford us an opportunity to begin 
de novo, and our labours may serve to guide 
those who propose to create salmon-farms; 
nor will the arrangement be altogether use- 
less to such as possess rivers more happily 
circumstanced, as it may illustrate some 
points hitherto overlooked, the observance of 
which will perhaps help them forward to a 
larger measure of success. 

Revenons a nos mutons. — It has already 
been assumed that unity is effected, and that 
all the ripal proprietors are firmly bound 
together in the bonds of a great common 
interest. Their first act, as a matter of 
course, would be, to resolve themselves into 
a committee, and elect a chairman and small 
sub-committee with fiill executive powers, 
whose duty would at once lead them to 



Our Model Farm. 31 

inspect the property, and for this purpose 
we will suppose their examination to com- 
mence at the tideway. AU rivers of average 
size are certain to have a fair outfall, enabling 
the fish to ascend or descend at all times. 
Traffic and the quality of the water, however, 
may properly claim attention for a few 
moments, and it may be asked. Can any 
amount of the former scare the salmom from 
returning to their native stream ? 

Glasgow is, from the importance of its 
commerce, the third port in the kingdom. 
The estuary is literally ploughed by steamers ; 
yetour friends thesalmonarenotfrightenedout 
of their propriety, but pass the busy quays, and 
so reach the upper Clyde. From inquiries 
recently made at Bothwell, the Sahnonidas 
appear to have diminished considerably dur- 
ing the last few years, but this is due to the 
increasing impurity of the water, and the 
erection of weirs ; more fish, however, ascend 
the river at Dumbarton than formerly. We 
may then fairly conclude that navigation offers 
no serious impediment to the return of the fish. 



32 Practical Water-Farming. 

At this part of our small farm the question 
of purity is not likely to arise, though the 
amount of mud held in solution may in some 
cases provoke inquiry. The Bristol Channel is 
the most dirty tideway in the kingdom. At 
Chepstow and Gloucester the water is literally 
as thick as pearsoup, and yet the Wye and 
the Severn are the most prolific of our 
English and Welsh rivers, and satisfactorily 
answer all objections that can be raised on 
this head. 

Leaving the estuary, we now proceed to 
examine the entire course of the stream to its 
highest tributary, in search of all impedi- 
ments, whether artificial or natural, calculated 
in any degree to hinder the periodical 
migrations of the salmon. 

Mill-dams and their owners can rarely be 
trusted. The " Miller and his Men " should 
still be regarded as a species of amiable 
banditti, and, as such, receive particular 
attention from the river-police. Weirs are 
necessary evils. We cannot remove them, 
but we can neutralise their injurious effects. 



Our Model Farm. 33 

and this brings us at once to the subject of 



Unfortunately, many of these ingenious 
puzzles can only be r^arded as injurious 
playthings — ^toy problems, which no fish can 
be expected to solre. Admirable in inten- 
tion, too many of our ladders are, it is to be 
feared, sadly fitulty in construction. The 
subject is one of such interest and importance 
that we may be pardoned for conadering it 
at some length. Probably the best ^'pass'" 
in the worid is to be seen on the Seyem, near 
Holt, and since it may adrantageously be 
adopted as a pattern, we cannot do better than 
desmbe it. At its south-east comer, the weir 
appears to be an inch or two lower than at 
other parts, and this always insures a fine 
current. The space extending from the bed 
of the rirer below to the water-lerel aboTc 
llie dam, might be represaited by an acute 
triai^e, the base of which would rest against 
its south-western fiu% ; and this is filled up by 
blocks of stone, oyer which runs so captirat- 
ing a stream that salmon, were they pot 

B 



34 Practical Water-Farming. 

sober-minded and strongly disposed to attend 
to the serious duties of life, might waste 
a good deal of valuable time in sailing up 
and down the run^ ^^for the mere pleasure 
of the thing." Such a ^^ pass " offers at all 
times an easy means of passing I It is, in 
effect, a queen's gap of the most perfect kind, 
and very unlike some of the corkscrew puzzles, 
into which it is a wonder if a fish finds his 
way, and a miracle if he succeeds in getting 
through successfully. 

It must not, however, be supposed that 
we underrate the original design; very far 
from it Some assistance must be given to 
the salmon in his migrations, and some means 
found to aid him in climbing over barriers 
otherwise insurmountable ; the only question 
is, how this can be best accomplished. 

The great majority of the "passes" I have 
seen, run straight over the face of the weir, 
without any adequate provision being made 
for regulating the supply which ought to flow 
through them, and consequently in an average 
of years they are impassable — let us say for 



Our Model Farm. 35 

half the season — either from having too much 
or too little water. We know a salmon can 
stm^le through extraordinary natural ob- 
stacles ; that he will leave the sea and rush 
over fords so shallow — ^in order to enter his 
own river — ^that half his back is uncovered ; 
I have seen the feat performed a thousand 
times, but this is a different affair from 
scaling a difficult artificial contrivance. All 
animals are habitually suspicious, and a 
salmon that would make desperate efforts to 
pass an obstruction of a kind to which he had 
been accustomed — whether thatdifficulty arose 
from excess or paucity of water — ^might well 
be expected to halt between the extremes 
"of too much or too little," when flowing 
through so alarming a novelty as an ill-con- 
structed pass. The consequences of this 
natural hesitation are obvious; delays are 
proverbially dangerous ; and some day, in " a 
drought," a gaff is slipped under the animal 
whose too great caution has proved his ruin, 
and he forthwith goes to market instead of 
proceeding to the spawning-beds. The very 



38 Practical Water-Farming. 

moderate force, and the longer in reason the 
run is made, the more surely will these ends 
be gained; the base of every "ladder" 
should rest in the deepest part of the pool ; 
and lastly, nature should be studied and 
copied, not only in general design but also in 
material 



CHAPTER IV. 

FAMILY MATTERS. 

Closely connected with artificial obstruc- 
tions, caused by weirs and dams, are the 
dangers produced by mill-lades and sluices. 
So &r as our farm is concerned, it matters 
nothing whether a strong stream be diverted 
from the main channel for agricultural or 
manufacturing purposes ; the evil consists in 
the fact, that a downward current is created, 
which practically is not a safe path to the sea. 
Artificial obstructions — difficult yet pos- 
sible—of which an instance was given in the 
previous chapter, indirectly affect the ascend- 
ing fish, whilst the dangers usually connected 
with these structures are directly injurious to 
the smolts and kelts. It is hard to say in 
which capacity weirs have exercised the 
greatest amount of injury on our rivers. 



40 Practical Water-Farming. 

Thousands of tributaries have been practi- 
cally closed against spawning fish by the one, 
and countless numbers of fiy and foul salmon 
have entered the other, destined never to 
return. 

Immediately after the deposition of the 
ova, the female fish commences her downward 
voyage, dropping back probably at the rate 
of two or three miles per day, when the water 
is at an average height, and making much 
longer runs when the streams are swollen by 
rain. Mill-dams and sluices, though always 
dangerous to the descending salmon, are 
most to be dreaded in low water; for the 
animals, following their instincts, move on 
with the strongest current, which, especially 
in our smaller rivers, at such times will be 
found to lead to the mill, where these 
wanderers from the right course are liable to 
be netted, or else destroyed amongst the 
machinery. As passes must be erected over 
obstructions, in order to render all the farm 
accessible to the stock, so here, fences must be 
placed to prevent their straying out of bounds. 



Family Matters. 4 1 

This can be easily and cheaply eflFected 
by driving a few stakes into the mill-dam at 
the point where it diverges from the main 
channel. These should be placed in a double 
row, arranged alternately, to guard the grat- 
ings from the eflFects of driftwood or other 
heavy substances which a flood may bring 
down. A few yards below this breastwork, 
the screen and netting must be fixed ; the 
first to consist of slight iron rods set per- 
pendicularly in a rough wooden frame. These 
bars need not exceed half-an-inch in diameter, 
nor should the interspaces be greater than 
an inch and a half, and beyond this, hardly 
any spent fish can pass. The principal use, 
however, of the screen is to oflFer a farther 
protection to the wire-netting placed ten or 
twelve inches behind it, which must be of a 
mesh sufficiently fine to stop all smolts in 
their perilous downward course. Each fresh 
brings with it more or less weeds, rushes, and 
Buch like ; which, lodging against the safety 
screen, can, from the simple arrangement of 
the rods, be raked off" as they accumulate. 



42 Practical Water-Farming. 

A plan such as this effectually secures 
the safety of the descendmg Salmonidce, and 
is as essential to the well-being of our fiinn 
as the uninterrupted ascent of the fish to the 
spawning-grounds ; for if the assistance man 
affords these creatures to pass obstructions, 
and reach the ultimate tributaries, enables 
them there to sow the seed of a fiiture crop, 
at least in an equal degree, his protection 
against dangers in their passage to the sea 
tends to the safe ingathering of the harvest. 

It has been already observed that, very 
shortly after spawning, the mother fish com- 
mences her voyage to the sea. The males, 
however, remain longer on the roods, waiting 
the arrival of fresh females, and to this, pro- 
bably, is to be attributed the well-known fact, 
that during the early winter our rivers con- 
tain so large a percentage of milters. By 
the end of December the majoriiy of spawners 
have left the fresh waters, but at least six 
weeks more must elapse before the bulk of 
the males have quitted them ; this brings us 
to the middle of February. In April the 



Family Matters. 43 

smolts commence their journey^ and their 
migration is nearly over by the middle of the 
following month. A knowledge of these 
facts will enable us to employ our protective 
powers to the best adyantage. For example, 
whilst our riyer-police should jealously watch 
all obstructions in June, July, and August, 
they should be massed in September, October, 
and November about the spawning-grounds ; 
whilst in December, and the five following 
months, their attention should be constantly 
directed to the dangers which beset the foul 
fish and fry in their passage to the ocean. 

Enough has, perhaps, been said on the 
score of artificial dangers and impediments, 
as well as on the nature of the farm- work 
they necessitate; but before we absolutely 
take leave of this branch of the subject we 
must offer a few words respecting natural 
barriers. 

These, as a general rule, are found in the 
higher parts of rivers, and consist almost 
exclusively of cascades, at the foot of which, 
alike in high or low water, the poacher has 



44 Practical Water-Farming. 

effected, and can still effect, incalculable 
mischief. In the vast majority of these cases 
a slight study of the mode in which nature 
herself so often opens a road over such rocky 
barriers, together with a little gunpowder 
judiciously applied, will remove the difficulty, 
and add enormously to the value of the farm, 
by developing spawning-grounds hitherto un- 
productive. 

We have now inspected our property from 
the sea nearly to the source, and have at 
length arrived at the head waters. We have 
noticed peculiarities that might have existed 
in or about the outfall, and have gained a 
just idea of the difficulties to be overcome, 
and the dangers to be guarded against. 
Whilst making the survey, all points of im- 
portance should be marked with red ink on 
"the Ordnance Survey," as spawning-beds, 
weirs, lodges, and the like, and this chart 
would probably prove as useful to English 
aqueculturists as similar ones have proved 
serviceable to many of my Scotch and Irish 
friends. The most important part of our 



Family Matters. 45 

work, however, is still before us ; for all that 
has yet been done will, in a commercial point 
of view, prove useless without our breeding- 
grounds, and to these we must now turn our 
attention. 

In rivers of any given length, far less than 
half the extent will probably be suited for 
the deposition of spawn, yet if a stream 
possesses anything approaching an adequate 
stock, the salmon operate with wonderful 
imiformity on all the available spots, for the 
heavier fish rood on the deeper runs, whilst 
the smaller select the upper and lesser 
tributaries. This rule, however, is not invari- 
able, for " all have a tendency to get into the 
most elevated rivulets in which they can swim 
and find shelter. On this question Thomas 
Ashworth, Esq., probably the highest autho- 
rity on the subject, thus writes : — 

"The smallest streams are found in area 
to be the most productive, even those not 
exceeding from three to six feet in width ; 
and of such streams, in my own salmon-fishery 
at Galway on the west coast of Ireland, we have 



46 Practical Water-Farming. 

thirty-three miles in length. Many of these 
in the summer seasons are not more than a 
few inches deep, with occasional pools, and in 
many places are oyerhung by brushwood, or 
banks of earth and stones, under which the 
young fish escape readily from sight, and into 
which larger fish do not go, as there is not 
sufficient water to cover them. Here the 
young fish, being beyond the reach of their 
more formidable enemies, who devour them 
when they can, remain in safety until they 
are about three inches long. As they increase 
in size they follow the stream into deeper 
pools, and thence migrate to the sea. I have 
in my fishery one stream divided into two 
tributaries of not more than from three to 
six feet in width, with springs at the head of 
it. This is a favourite resort for spawning 
fish; they will swim into this small stream 
with their backs frequently above the water, 
and where a boy with a stick might kill them 
with the greatest ease; and yet, when disturbed 
in their operations of spawning, they can only 
be driven away for a few minutes, when they 



Family Matters. 47 

will return to the same gravel-bed to com- 
plete their work." 

About a moiety of the roods in every 
fisheiy are ready made^ and, for the sake of 
argument, may here be considered as beyond 
the reach of improvement; but the upper 
and more valuable beds are often capable of 
being not only altered for the better, but 
absolutely created. This power is of such 
importance that the mode of improving the 
old, as well as of making new ground, may 
well claim our careful consideration. 

In all tributaries, rapid alterations in depth 
and volume of water are inevitable, and many 
spots, which in spates would form admirable 
beds, are useless, from being often wholly, or 
partially dry. Again, at other points, were 
not the current possessed of too great a fall, 
the ground would be aU that could be desired. 
Now a little skill, and a small amount of 
labour, would obviate all these difficulties. 
The beds of such rivulets almost invariably 
abound with large blocks of stone, and if 
these were arranged at convenient intervals 



48 Practical Water-Farming. 

as dams from three to four feet in height, 
dangerous changes in depth and excess of 
rapidity, would be equally avoided ; and thus, 
whilst much spawn would be saved from 
perishing from drought, a still larger quantity 
would receive impregnation. 

Again, the channels of mountain-streams, 
so dear to the salmon, are frequently encum- 
bered with boulders to such a degree that 
the fish have no room for the successful 
deposition of the ova; but once roll these 
out of the way, a beautiftJ gravelly bottom 
either remains or is speedily deposited, in 
which case we have actually enclosed new 
ground of a quality more productive, probably, 
than any previously to be found on the farm. 

These are some of the most important 
points which will claim attention whilst mak- 
ing a survey of our tributaries. Care, 
common sense, and skill, wherever exercised, 
make all the diflerence between failure or 
success. No man, in ftdl possession of his 
reason, would expect a farm to pay if left to 
take care of itself, and the analogy between . 



Family Matters. 49 

land and water property, holds good here as 
elsewhere. Both will pay for cultivation, and, 
as a general rule, will yield a dividend in the 
ratio of the outlay; and happy would our 
agriculturists be if their expenses were no 
greater than those incurred by our water- 
fiumers. 

Constantly following a wandering life, our 
silvery friends encounter innumerable perils, 
are opposed by great obstacles, and meet with 
manifold enemies in their annual migrations. 
Against these dangers we have endeavoured 
to provide, by preparing the farm for their 
reception; and, if required to send in a report, 
might say, "Your committee have spent 
much time and thought on the foundations, 
which are sound, well cemented, and able to 
bear any strain that may be placed upon 
them ; that they have made passages to enable 
the stock they are about to purchase, to 
wander freely over the entire property ; that 
they have securely fenced all dangerous spots; 
that the company's servants are beginning to 
understand their business ; that Imperial law 



60 Practical Water-Farming. 

is &Yourable to the undertaking; and that 
our police will shortly be organised and ready 
for duty, as soon as their services can be 
wanted. Moreover, your committee desire 
to call your attention to so much of the 
history and habits of the animals they propose 
to rear, as shall be likely to exercise a 
beneficial influence on the concerns of ^ this 
great joint-stock limited liability company,' 
and, in conclusion, beg to announce that at 
the next meeting they intend to read a paper 
entitled, ' The Natural History of the Salmon, 
with a View to its Practical Cultivation/" 



CHAPTER V. 

OUR friend's history. 

The salmon has hitherto ahnost exclusively 
occupied public attention whenever the 
utilisation of our unproductive rivers has been 
under discussion. 

Crowned long ago by acclamation king of 
fish^ learning has done him homage; the 
splendour of his destiny has been the theme 
of modem prophecy; genius has shed her 
light upon him, and the skill of the engineer 
has been employed in his service. The 
natural histoiy^ therefore, of a creature of 
such importance, so far at least as it conduces 
to his practical cultivation, may here fidrly 
claim our attention. 

Of the 250 kinds of fish found in the 
rivers and seas of Great Britain, more is 
known of the genus Sahno than of any other. 



52 Practical Water-Farming. 

When peaking of his bnnlj we shall deal 
with fiM^ts whai we can, hypothesis where we 
must, and shall tell all that is yet known of 
his birth, growth, pecoliaiities, and anomalies; 
of his enemies and migratory habits, of his 
presumed fertility and real nnproductiyeness ; 
and, in condnsion, endeavour to show their 
practical connection with our subject. 

November is the month, par excellence, 
in which sahnon take up their temporary 
residence on the gravelly fords of rivers for 
the purpose of spawning. Few sow their 
seed at an earlier period, whilst numbers 
are still on the roods during December and 
the early days of Januaiy. Indeed, con- 
siderable latitude must be allowed when any 
statement is made as to the time at which 
these animals are engaged in the dangerous 
office of re-production, for in the greater 
Blackwater I have often landed, through the 
whole month of March, two or three spawners 
per day, and these fish were exactly in the 
condition of those ordinarily, but unwisely, 
captured in the latter part of September 



Our Friend's History. 63 

and during October. It has been abeady 
obseired that the larger jSsh generally occupy 
the deeper fords, whilst the smaller ones 
push onwards to the ultimate and shallower 
tributaries. Whatever spot, however, may 
be selected, the mother fish, unless in some 
few exceptional cases, arrives in time to 
survey her nursery before using it, often, 
indeed, lodging close at hand for weeks and 
sometimes months before parturition. At 
length the critical moment arrives, and then 
the salmon, sailing out of some neighbouring 
pool, proceeds to plough two, three, or four 
furrows across the bed of the stream at an 
obtuse angle to the current. When these 
are finished to her satisfaction, she deposits 
her seed just as a gardener sows a jow of 
peas. Over her precious deposit the male 
sheds the milt, partly filling in the gravel at 
the same time by the motion of his fins and 
tail 

The mechanical action of the stream is, 
however, the principal agent in covering the 
seed, as the force of the descending water 



54 Practical Water-Farming. 

necessarily rolls the finer particles of gravel 
into the furrow till it reaches the surrounding 
level 

Weary with her labours^ the female fish 
drops back to the nearest shelter^ where she 
rests for two or three days. Again she 
returns to her labour^ and again ploughs, 
sows, and wastes her substance as before. 
At length her work is done, and then she 
journeys leisurely towards the sea, leaving her 
husband and young family behind. 

Meanwhile the seed continues to ger- 
minate, but, alas ! it lives in hourly peril of 
death, for seven or eight remarkably ugly 
animals, with homy backs, an undue propor- 
tion of legs, and fearfully hard scientific 
names, pass their whole time in doing as 
much mischief as possible to the ova. A 
large proportion, however, survives the assaults 
of these deadly enemies, and in April a 
tiny fish creeps fix)m each fertilised egg, 
and wanders about feebly, finding shelter 
under the edges of stones, his motions ap- 
parently impeded by the umbilical vesicle. 



Owr Friend's History. 55 

In about three weeks this bag is absorbed^ 
and growth goes on more rapidly, though 
without any uniformity, some members of the 
same family attaining twice the size of others, 
though bred up under the same conditions of 
food, water, and temperature. In April of the 
following year, probably half the parr of each 
brood dress themselyes in silver spangles, set 
out for the seaside, and three or four months 
later re-enter their own river as grilse, weigh- 
ing fix)m three to nine pounds each. These, 
like their mothers, spawn in November, again 
visit the ocean, and come back salmon, vary- 
ing fix>m ten to eighteen pounds. 

Connected with the parr are many pectdi- 
arities, and not a few anomalies; the first 
which will probably strike the aqueculturist 
is the irregular growth of these little creatures. 
Suppose the pea of a ten-pound fish to have 
been hatched successAilly, and that five 
thousand tiny fish are in the pond, it will 
soon become apparent that the rate of in- 
crease is very capricious. At the end of six 
months, whilst some of the fiy measure three 



56 Practical Water-Farming. 

inches^ others will barely exceed one^ and at 
twelve months the difference is even still 
more remarkable, a moiety, perhaps, of the 
young salmon attaining six inches in length 
with proportionate bulk, whilst others are 
scarcely larger than minnows. Nor is this 
produced by confinement, as a very limited 
amount of observation will show that the 
same peculiarity prevails whilst the animals 
are in a state of nature ; and so far indeed is 
artificial rearing from arresting their growth, 
that some of the largest smolts I have ever 
seen were those that have been so bred. 

The next thing to be noticed is the 
invariable regularity with which the grilse 
returns to the river from which it issued three 
or four months before, when a smolt. A 
knowledge of this fact first gave rise to a 
reasonable expectation of cultivating the 
salmon. All animals linger for a time 
around the spot where they were bom; 
gradually stray farther and farther; and then 
cease to entertain any noticeable affection for 
it. But the Salmonidae never voluntarily de- 



Our Friend's History. 57 

sert the stream where they were hatched, and 
this wonderful instinct alone justifies the 
salmon-farmer in spending care, time, and 
money, on his aquatic property. 

We cannot avoid mentioning one anomaly 
in our young stock,^ not merely because it 
appears to hold some relation to the irregu- 
larity of growth already mentioned, but also 
on account of its practical bearing ; I mean 
what has been called by Mr. Russel, "the 
half-and-half theory," which is now known 
not to be hypothesis but fact. This devia- 
tion from a great natural law has been 
already alluded to, and is briefly this : That 
whilst at seventeen or eighteen months, about 
half the parr of any particular brood become 
transformed into smolts, the remaining moiety 
undergo no change, but pass another year of 
their lives in humble estate, side by side with 
their great silvery brothers and sisters, who, 
after a little sea-bathing, have returned 
splendid fish, from three to nine pounds each. 
'How or why this mysterious condition obtains, 
we do not attempt to explain. At present 



68 Practical Water-Farming. 

we must be content to accept the fact^ and 
wait patiently for the explanation. 

The salmon^ besides numerous implacable 
enemies^ has^ in the natural state^ great dan- 
gers to encounter. Passing over many of 
these, we will notice two important causes of 
waste, which have, however, no connection 
with each other. At least 26 per cent of the 
eggs are either washed out of the trench or 
dropped by the mother fish at the sides, to 
be swept away by the stream and devoured 
by a little cloud of small fiy always to be 
seen hovering restlessly below, waiting for 
the banquet to which they appear to consider 
themselves regularly invited. Another per- 
centage of equal amount probably fails to 
receive impregnation, and so it comes to pass 
that when the drills are closed after the day's 
work is over, a moiety of the good seed has 
perished. 

Besides the dangers which attend our 
farm-stock in embryo, and the casualties which 
arise from the assaults of the larvae of various 
flies, the race is constantly beset with perils. 



Our Friend's History. 69 

During the earlier stages of independent 
existence^ trout^ perch^ pike^ and eels^ each 
and all^ display a dangerous fondness for our 
little ones; whilst ousels^ kingfishers^ and 
herons^ share in the same fatal affection. 
No small injury used to be annually inflicted 
at a later period on the fiy by juvenile 
anglers ; happily this sport has now become 
penal^ yet still I always observe that in April 
and May a passion for fly-fishing spreads like 
an epidemic amongst the boys of the only 
hamlet on my river^ to the great disqmet of 
my water-keepers. The first fresh, however, 
which occurs, carries the smolts far beyond 
the reach of birds, beasts, and village-youths, 
only, however, to bring them within the 
sphere of marine enemies quite as destructive 
and more numerous. These, however, need 
not be enumerated here, because man's care, 
however applied, can exercise little influence 
over them. 

The instincts and habits of the adult fish 
have already been shown to be full of dan- 
gers which need not be further insisted on in 



60 Ptactical Water-Farming. 

this place. The apparent fertility^ but real 
unproductiyenesSy of the animal deserves, 
however, some consideration, and we shall 
do well to listen to Mr. AshwortL ^*In 
1862 Mr. Buist and I, from the best informar 
tion we then possessed, arrived at the con- 
clusion that not one egg out of one thousand 
ever produced a marketable fish. In 1861 
Mr. Ffennell and I came to the opinion that 
not one in three thousand ever became 
marketable." 

If this be so, and there is no reason to 
doubt the accuracy of the calculation, what 
an argument does it furnish for the general 
adoption of artificial hatching. Before, how- 
ever, we enter into details on this subject, 
let us very briefly endeavour to show how 
our salmon-farm may be advantaged from a 
consideration of the foregoing Httle historical 
summary. A knowledge of the season at 
which the salmon deposits her ova, and the 
circumstances attending the operation, show 
us when and where our river police should 
be massed; whilst the irregularity of the 



Our Friend* 8 History. 61 

time occupied in the process reminds us 
that protection must not be too hastily 
abandoned. The instinct which carries the 
fish to the highest tributaries teaches us the 
importance of improving and creating such 
nurseries. The certainty with which the 
salmon returns to its own river gives energy 
to our labour and expenditure on the farm. 
When we know the dangers which beset our 
young stocky we are often enabled to avoid 
them; when we are acquainted with the 
enemies which prey on them^ we are able to 
destroy them ; and, above all, when we learn 
that though the quantity of seed sown is 
enormous, yet that which ripens to harvest is 
very small, we are, as it were, irresistibly 
compelled to admit the system of artificial 
hatching to be one of the most important 
discoveries of the present century. 

Left to their own resources, a pair of 
salmon produce perhaps only one marketable 
fish out of three thousand eggs, whereas, from 
the same number the pisciculturist can send 
one thousand smolts to sea. How many of 



62 Practical Water-Farmmg. 

these will be destroyed in the next three 
months we know not, but if we suppose 
fifteen out of twenty perish, the result of art 
as compared with nature will still be about 
forty to one. 



CHAPTER VI. 

THE ARTIFICIAL SYSTEM. 

"In 1852, we caught a trout in the 
spawning-beds," writes the earliest and best of 
our aqueculturists, " and squeezed 600 salmon 
ova out of its stomach." Again, whilst con- 
sidering the destruction effected by aquatic 
insects, the same observer remarks, " As an 
instance of this, I may state that we once 
deposited 70,000 sahnon-eggs in a beautifully 
clear stream for hatching, and that when the 
time arrived for vivifying, we found they had 
been eaten by the embryo of the dragon-fly ; 
nor could we discover a single fish living out 
of the 70,000 ova deposited." 

From these dangers, and many others, 
we can protect our young stock for fifteen 
months, and to a moiety of it we are able to 
offer nearly perfect security for twelve months 



64 Practical Water-Farming. 

longer; to seek further eyidence, therefore, 
m favour of artificial rearing would be mere 
waste of time. Moreover, it must be remem- 
bered that the farm we are bringing into 
order is, as r^ards the Salmonidae, practically 
barren, and of necessity we must erect our 
breeding-boxes, purchase, or otherwise pro- 
cure fertilised ova, and so stock the estate 
which is now ready for the seed. 

There are several kinds of vessels at 
present employed for the purpose of fish- 
hatching, and these differ considerably in 
material, size, and shape. Those invented 
and used by M. Coste consist of a number of 
bars of glass set lengthwise in a wooden 
frame called a " grille," which in turn is made 
to fit into a glazed earthenware trough, in 
which the grille is supported on small pro- 
jections, so as to ensure a constant and 
sufficient supply of running water passing 
over the upper, as well as along the lower 
surface. These water-baths are about 1 ft. 
8 in. in length, 5 in. in width, and from 3 in. to 
4 in. in depth. Three, four, or five of these 



The Artificial System. 65 

troughs are arranged each aboye^ and beyond 
the one below, like so many stairs; a pipe 
conveying pure water opens into the upper 
box, and maintains a small but constant 
current, which runs into the tray beneath, 
either by a depression, or through a pipe 
placed at the opposite end, thus ensuring 
that a stream shall not only flow along the 
entire length, but also pass through each pan 
in succession. A rough frame of deal or 
common split fir is all that is required to 
support the troughs and complete our fish- 
hatching apparatus. Each grille will contain 
with ease 1000 salmon ova, which are placed 
side by side on the glass bars ; then the water 
is turned on, and the process of artificial 
hatching commences. In England a more 
simple apparatus is used, composed of slate 
troughs. The same arrangement of pipes, 
however, is employed, and the same stair- 
like form followed, but the size is considerably 
larger, not only as regards each box, but 
also as to the number of such boxes connect- 
ed together. Those at present to be seen at 

F 



66 Practical Water-Farming. 

the Horticultural Gardens^ Kensington^ are 
about 3 feet 2 inches long^ 7 inches wide, 
probably 7 inches in depth, the steps being 
six in number, and the cost £5 sterling. 
These very efficient troughs are half filled 
with gravel, cleansed from the larvae of 
insects by heat (that which I saw had been 
boiled), and on this prepared bed the ova are 
placed and the water turned on. So well 
does this method answer, that fully two-thirds 
of the eggs are safely hatched. 

Many pisciculturists, however, employ 
modifications of the foregoing, differing 
slightly in form, size, or material ; but so far 
as essentials are concerned, they are nearly 
identical The number of boxes that must 
be required, and the heavy outlay which would 
be unavoidable, if operations were conducted 
on anything like a large scale, will probably 
lead to the substitution of cheaper and more 
simple machinery, such for example as is now 
employed at Stormontfield. 

The breeding-establishment at Stormont- 
field having stood the test of thirteen years' 



The Artificial System. 67 

experience, may fairly be supposed to re- 
present our most advanced opinions. In- 
deed, it is difBicult to imagine anything 
better calculated to promote the end designed. 
Instead, therefore, of a verbal description, 
we will give a rough sketch of the nursery, 
over which Mr. Robert Buist has so long and 
ably presided. 

Mr. Buist calls this nursery "an experi- 
ment," and considers "what has been done 
has scarcely been on such a scale as would 
justify the appropriation of a more pretentious 
title." Looking at the great extent of the 
Tay and its tributaries, the Stormontfield 
undertaking appears but a speck, for not more 
than one acre of ground was originally ap- 
propriated, and even this limited area is only 
now beginning to be fuHy employed. For 
the first eleven years there was only one 
feeding-pond, and this prevented the manager 
from hatching oftener than once in two years ; 
now, however, a large additional tank has 
been constructed, and the entire works 
extended and improved. 



68 Practical Water-Farming. 

We, who have learned so much from the 
labours and experience of others, can hardly 
appreciate the feeling with which Mr. Buist 
gradually found his scepticism melt away 
before facts. " I saw," he writes, " the seed 
of salmon deposited in the boxes, like peas 
sown in a garden, and I saw it come to life 
in like manner. With feelings of delight I 
traced the young fish from the egg to the 
smolt state ; I saw them take their departure 
for the sea, and part of them return, during 
the same season, as grilses." 

Although a pen-and-ink sketch has so far 
rendered words unnecessary, we have still 
something to say on the general principles 
which should guide the pisciculturist in his 
choice of a site for the breeding pens. There 
are two periods fraught with peculiar danger 
to the young of the salmon ; the first during 
embryonic life, the second whilst the newly- 
born fish is encumbered with its umbilical 
vesicle. The statement made by Mr. Ash- 
worth, that out of 70,000 ova deposited 
under circumstances highly favourable to 



The Artificial System. 69 

their deyelopment ereiy one had been eaten 
by the larvse of the dragon-fly, is suflhdent to 
establish the truth of tiie first assertion, and 
as we know that nine-tenths of the food taken 
by fish is obtained from the smaller members 
of the fiunily, and that none can be smaller, 
or more helpless, than the alerins, it may 
£Bdrly be assumed that the destruction of 
these weak little creatures is great indeed. 
During each of these periods the artificial 
system offers nearly perfect security to the 
egg, as well as to the newly-born fish, and as 
there is eveiy reason to believe four-fifths of 
the loss is incurred in the river, it is obvious 
that the less the fry have to do with it, the 
better it will be for the fenn. The site 
chosen for the nurseiy, therefore, should be 
within two or three miles of the tideway. 

The next point to be ensured is an unfail- 
ing supply of pure water, and this can be 
easily secured if ordinary care is employed. 
From what has ah*eady been said, the 
advantages of using a filter can hardly be 
over-rated, and need not be further insisted 



70 Practical Water-Farming. 

on. The employment of the mill-lades at 
Stormontfield as a source of supply is well 
worth imitation^ for whilst it ensures a constant 
flow^ it reduces the danger of inundation to a 
minimum. 

The cost of the ponds^ sluices^ and drains 
requires a few words. The little water-courses 
could easily be cut by two ordinaiy labourers 
in a few days, and the sluices made by any 
village carpenter. The present price of 
excavation, where no imusual difficulties 
occur, is one shilling per square yard — and if 
we suppose each tank to be 200 feet in length, 
by 60 feet in breadth, with a depth of 3 feet, the 
value of the work to be done may easily be 
calculated. One skilfiil man, aided by a boy, 
will suffice to manage the nursery. 

To give an exact estimate of the cost 
of constructing a breeding-establishment is 
obviously impossible, as no two are likely to 
be built on the same scale. The size of the 
river to be stocked ; the nature of the ground ; 
the strength of the company ; or the wealth 
and spirit of any individual proprietor, 



The Artificial System. 71 

will all affect the outlay. Moreover, some 
pisciculturists hatch imder cover, whilst others 
leave their boxes open to the weather, and 
the erection of sheds would at once make a 
considerable difference in the correctness of 
any estimate that might be offered. Again, 
the cost of one set of troughs is at present 
£5; but a single apparatus will not accom- 
modate more than twelve or fourteen thousand 
ova, and whilst one nursery may employ a 
dozen boxes, another may require five times 
that number. In some places stages would 
have to be erected for the hatching-boxes. 
In others, a natural fall of the ground would 
enable the manager to arrange them in a 
graduated series, such as we often see adopted 
in our watercress beds. It is, therefore, 
clearly impossible to determine absolutely 
what such establishments shall cost ; but if 
we say that a large and thoroughly efficient 
one could be constructed for jE300, we believe 
there will be a handsome margin to our rough 
estimate. ' 
No terrestrial farm can nowadays be 



72 Practical Water 'Farming. 

reasonably expected to pay without bams, 
sheds^ and machinery. If money is to be 
made, capital must be invested; and fortunate, 
indeed, are our aqueculturists in being able 
to construct works of such infinite value at a 
cost so insignificant. 

Some difficulty seems to have existed 
at Stormontfield in procuring a sufficient 
quantity of eggs exactly in the state fit for 
impregnation; this has now been obviated 
by the simple plan of placing a requisite 
number of salmon in the mill-lades, where 
they are secured by gratings till ready for 
manipulation. Floods and other accidental 
circumstances may render the capture of ripe 
fish uncertain in rivers so large as the Tay, 
provided the take is required to be made near 
the tideway, but in smaller farms such a 
difficulty would be very unlikely to occur, as 
freshes soon run down, and spawners are sure 
to be found on the lower as well as the upper 
fords. 

Connected with the rearing-establishment 
is a question of great interest. We have 



The Artificial System. 73 

briefly described the hatching-boxes, ponds, 
drains, and so forth, and have shoMH how an 
approximation to the cost of construction 
may be obtained ; but, it may be asked, what 
results are reasonably to be expected from the 
outlay ? The answer will be too important to 
be hurried over at the end of a chapter. 



CHAPTER VII. 

RESULTS. 

A COMMON proverb tells us that cleanlmess 
is next to godliness. Whatever influence 
this virtue may exercise on the sanitary 
condition of man^ the practice of it cannot 
be over-rated in the management of our 
rearing establishments. Mud is a sad enemy 
to the fry in all stages of their existence^ and 
should be excluded as far as possible from 
the ponds and drains. In the construction 
of these^ therefore, attention must be paid to 
the bottom, which should either be paved 
with brick or flat stones. Gravel would 
appear the natural substance to employ, but 
being a collector of dirt, must be avoided ; a 
little of it, however, may be used with 



Results. 75 

advantage. The pisciculturist's success will 
largely depend on the attention he bestows 
on minute points^ and his gains will be in the 
ratio of his care. 

Having provided against this source of 
loss, we will now consider the profit which 
may reasonably be expected to accrue from 
artificial breeding. 

If what has been said be correct regarding 
the havoc committed on the eggs and alevins, 
little doubt can be entertained that a nursery 
is the water-farmer's road to wealth, as it 
protects the fry from dangers as inevitable as 
they are ruinous. Could we, therefore, arrive 
at anything like an approximation of the 
saving of life effected by the artificial system, 
as compared with the loss annually experienced 
from the natural, we should be enabled to 
show the profit to be placed to the credit of 
our breeding-establishment. 

In the investigation we must appeal to 
facts and refer to figures ; and in order that 
these may bear the seal of authoriiy, we shall 



76 Practical Water-Farming. 

examine the things which have been done, 
and quote from the books which have been 
kept on the Tay, as well as on the Galway 
fishery, the great centres of experiment, and 
the fountain-heads as it were from which 
most of our actual knowledge flows. 

The time had arrived at which the smolts 
in the ponds at Stormontfield were ready for 
migration, and Mr. Buist, having received 
notice from the keeper, proceeded thither in 
the company of three distinguished friends to 
see that every fish was properly run ofi*. One 
of these gentlemen selected sixty-four of the 
best-grown smolts from the few that remained 
to the last, and made a peculiar cutting in 
the dead fin of each, so that there might be 
no mistake as to the identity of the fish, 
should they afterwards be caught as grilse or 
salmon; and now let us carefully note the 
result. 

Of the smolts thus marked on the 24th 
of May one returned as a grilse on the 16th 
of August, weighing nine pounds. Four 



Results. 77 

days afber^ a second was taken of five pounds. 
On the 23d of the same months another was 
caught ; and on the 26th (then the last day 
of the legal netting season)^ a fourth of the 
marked salmon was secured. 

The angling, however, was not over, and 
on the 19th of September, writes Mr. Buist, 
"a friend caught a grilse with the fly, and 
sent me a cut of the fish, with the dead fin 
bearing the same mark." Subsequently four 
more were captured, making a total of nine. 
Commenting on these facts, Mr. Buist re- 
marks, " It is to be regretted that only one 
of the tacksmen on the Tay has evinced any 
interest in the progress of the experiment, all 
of them invariably abstaining from giving us 
notice when any fish of our marking fell into 
their possession." 

We must now pass for a moment from 
Stormontfield to Galway. "We will as- 
sume," writes the proprietor of the latter 
fishery, "that 20,000 fish of various sizes 
visited their breeding-ground the previous 



78 Practical Water-Farming. 

year, and that one half were females, pro- 
ducing 7000 eggs each ; in other words, that 
70,000,000 eggs had been left in the river, 
and yielded in due season our 20,000 
marketable salmon.'' There is so little 
hypothesis in this calculation, that it may be 
accepted as fact; if, therefore, we contrast 
the statements so modestly put forth by 
Mr. Ashworth and Mr. Buist,'we shall have 
done much to answer the question pro- 
posed. 

Out of the sixty-four smolts marked from 
the Stormontfield ponds, nine were known to 
be captured, three or four more may reasonably 
be assumed annually to have escaped net and 
rod, whilst it is impossible to doubt that at 
least two or three others fell into the hands 
of some of the many tacksmen renting 
fisheries on the river. If, therefore, we find 
that fifteen or sixteen smolts out of sixty-four 
visited the sea, and returned from it in safety, 
we are able to decide with considerable 
accuracy that the percentage of loss sus- 



Remits. 79 

tained by our young stock during this 
period of their lives is three out of four, or 
75 per cent 

But what is this when compared with the 
dangers which naturally beset them, when, 
from 70,000,000 of eggs, we are entitled to 
assert only 20,000 annually return from the 
ocean, the loss being in this case as 3500 to 
1, or 350,000 per cent. 

The proprietor of the noble Galway 
fishery has published a table of the number 
of fish annually captured by him during a 
period of twelve consecutive seasons — ^viz., 
from 1853 to 1864 — and by it we find the 
increase, with one exception, as regular as 
it has been prodigious. From this most 
instructive account we will select five years 
by way of illustration : — 

In 1853, the number taken was 1,601 
In 1855 „ „ 5,540 

In 1858 „ „ 9,639 

In 1861 „ „ 11,051 

In 1864 „ „ 20,512 



80 



Practical Water-Farming, 



In 1862, operations were commenced at 
Stormontfield, and at the same time the 
netting season was reduced by nineteen days, 
the results, as affecting the rental of the Tay, 
are shown in the table which follows : — 



In 1853 it 


rose 


to . . 


£8,715 17 


6 


In 1854 


^> 




9,269 6 


5 


In 1859 


i9 




. 12,884 14 





In 1862 


}} 


' 


, 14,080 12 





In 1864 


)f 




. 15,000 






In each of the fisheries so often alluded 
to the artificial system was followed, but at 
the same time, the most enlightened culture 
was bestowed on the bed of the Galway 
rivers; and to this policy, doubtless, not a 
little of the increase was due. If, however, 
we make the ftdlest allowance for the benefit 
produced by ladders, blasting, improving 
and creating spawning-beds, enlarging the 
close-time, and strict protection, we must 
still declare that to the hatching-boxes the 
triumph is principally due ; and that nature, 
assisted by art, in the case of salmon, — at 



Bemlts. 81 

leasts — ^produces results incalculably import- 
ant, not merely to the proprietor, but to the 
nation at large. 

The fatuity and incredulity which has 
been exhibited by the owners of our inland 
waters seems truly wonderful. The experi- 
ment has been tried, in a greater or less 
degree, in many places ; has failed in none ; 
and has succeeded uniformly in the ratio of 
the scale on which it was conducted, yet men 
still talk of xequiring further evidence. Such 
persons must, indeed, be hard of belief, and 
it seems difiGlcult to imagine what amount of 
testimony would satisfy them. On the Dee, 
Messrs. Martin and Gillone are cultivating 
with marked success, their breeding-boxes, 
unlike those at Stormontfield, being all under 
cover. Then does not Arcachon supply all 
France with young fish artificially produced ? 
Have we not an example at Humngue, and 
has not Germany already done much towards 
converting barren rivers into profitable water- 
farms? 

G 



82 Practical Water-Farming. 

Hitherto our Protestant proclivities have 
prevented fish from being an indispensable 
article of food, but the price of butchers' 
meat must, of necessity, inaugurate new 
tastes; in &ct, all food that can now be 
raised is wanted, and is sure to find a ready 
market. 

Again, we know that the cost of rearing 
and feeding our young salmon is only about 
one pound sterling per thousand, or a far- 
thing apiece; and that the smolts thus 
reared, so far^ from being less fine and 
healthy than those naturally produced, are 
often actually larger, and in time become 
salmon of a quality and weight fully equal to 
any produced in the ordinary way. Breeding- 
boxes, like other manufactured articles, can 
now be obtained in any quantity, and of every 
size and pattern, whilst at least two-thirds of 
the eggs placed in them can be hatched. 

What more can the proprietors of our 
inland waters require ? They have facts in 
abundance ; but, alas I deeds have not hither- 



Remits. 83 

to kept pace with knowledge. Better times, 
however, are at hand; the period of dis- 
cussion has nearly passed, and the day of 
action has conunenced. ''The home-farm," 
five miles from Perth, beautifully situated on 
a sloping haugh on the banks of the Tay, is 
called by Mr. Buist a speck, considering the 
great extent of water on which it is intended 
to act. Comparatively speaking, it is only a 
fidnt spark, but here and there over the land 
other lamps are beginning to glimmer, and 
the present generation will, in all probability, 
live to see a chain of such lights blazing at 
many points along the banks of the great 
majority of our rivers. 

At the commencement of this century, 
money was far scarcer than at present, wages 
were lower, and pur population more scanty ; 
in short, less food was required, and moreover 
the people were not so well able to pay for 
it. Even then, thinking men believed that 
our land could not possibly support a larger 
population. Yet we know that high farming 



84 Practical Water-Farming. 

has well nigh doubled the supply, and that 
it pays. 

This principle applies as forcibly to the 
water as it does to the soil. Let us then 
hear no more of "further inquiry;" rather 
let us be up and doing, and manfully fight 
one great peace battle pro aris etfocis. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

COLLECTING THE SEED. 

Our engineering and architectural works are 
at length completed. We have constructed 
the farm, and finished the nursery with 
particular care, but the seed has yet to be 
collected ; and as this is a delicate operation, 
we shall enter at length into some of the 
methods at present employed to obtain it. 

The gathering of the seed commences early 
in November, and the first step is to run 
a net over the nearest spawning-bed. If the 
river possesses anything like a stock, twenty 
or thirty fish may be brought to land, but out 
of these not more than two or three will, in 
all probability, be found ripe. Having, 
however, procured a spawner and milter 
sufficiently matured, the pisciculturist pro- 
ceeds to operate. In many places the female 



86 Practical Water-Farming. 

fish is carefully and gently held in a perpen- 
dicular position over a tub^ bucket^ or other 
convenient vessel containing a little water, 
when the eggs, being entirely separated from 
each other, flow naturally, though slowly, from 
the oviduct. The hand of the operator is, 
however, always used to accelerate the process, 
which, of course, from a due regard to the 
life of the lady, must be very brie£ The 
^gs are now lying at various depths in the 
water, and a moiety of the work is accom- 
plished. The milter is next taken in hand, 
held in a similar position, and treated in a 
similar way; a very small portion of the 
milky fluid, however, is sufficient to vitalise 
the entire mass. Both the parents are, of 
course, returned to the river, and the contents 
of the vessel gently stirred by the hand, to 
insure that the milt and the water are so 
thoroughly mingled, that each egg shall 
receive its due proportion of life-giving matter. 
The success of the operation becomes 
immediately apparent, each egg assuming a 
pink hue. 



Collecting the Seed. 87 

This first haul of the net has^ perhaps^ 
produced thirty or forty thousand ova; but 
as this number will go but a very small way 
towards filling the boxes^ other draughts 
must be made on the nearest fords. In the 
meantime^ each bucket having been safely 
conveyed to the nursery, the spawn is placed 
in the boxes previously prepared for its 
reception; the tap from the filterer is then 
turned on, and hatching begins. 

Experience has taught us many lessons, 
not only regarding the number of eggs to be 
placed in a single breeding-box of any definite 
size, but also the mode of arranging them, 
the rule being that out of any given number, 
success is in the ratio of the space allotted to 
them, and overcrowding has always been 
found to end in great loss and disappointment. 
During this month the pisciculturist must 
work with energy and perseverance on every 
available opportunity, for in November the 
weather is capricious, and floods will materially 
interfere with his harvest operations. If, 
through supineness or over-confidence, the 



88 Practical Water-Farming. 

favourable opportunity is wasted, he loses 
what can never be regained. Time and tide 
wait for no man, and when he would be up 
and doing, the day of grace has passed, and 
no ripe fish can be obtained. Their seed has 
been already deposited, and for that season 
the artificial system, so far as he is concerned, 
is null and void. 

This naturally leads us to observe .the 
importance of building a lying-in hospital in 
every nursery, where immature salmon can be 
kept till in a state fit for use, and all un- 
certainty as to procuring ripe seed avoided. 
Nothing should be left to chance, and during 
the first and second weeks in November — if 
freshes do not stop netting — " the keepingr 
pond" should be fiilly stocked. We need not 
pause to describe it, as every reader will at 
once understand it must communicate either 
with the main river or some convenient stream 
possessing an adequate and invariable supply 
of water ; and if the brook does not cany ofl* 
the surplus water, an artificial cutting must 
be made, a strong grating be placed at its 



Collecting the Seed. 89 

inlet and outlet^ and then the structure is 
complete. 

In the early days of the Stormontfield 
experiments Mr. Buist suffered severely from 
the want of such a reservoir, and disappoint- 
ment soon suggested the remedy to his fertile 
genius. So obvious is the advantage of such 
a storehouse, that in future it will — at least 
on our larger rivers — ^form a necessary part 
of each rearing-establishment. 

The mode of collecting the eggs, hitherto 
described, may now, in the advancing state 
of our knowledge, be considered rather rough. 
The plan followed by Mr. Frank Buckland, 
whilst more refined, is probably also more 
efficacious. He recommends the use of oval 
tins, in size suited to salmon and grilse. 
When taken to the river-side these dishes 
are partially filled with water, and the fish 
being placed therein is held gently but firmly, 
in order to prevent her struggles ; the hand of 
the accoucheur is next passed along the 
external surface of the abdomen in order to 
express the seed, and the lady is then 



90 Practical Water-Farming. 

returned to the water. The milter undergoes 
the treatment before described^ and the eggs 
are yitalised. The advantage of this plan 
seems to be briefly this^ that the fish is 
delivered in situ ; more time is given to the 
operator, and the eggs pass directly from the 
oviduct into their natural element. 

It matters little, however, in what par- 
ticular mode the ova is gathered, provided the 
manipulation be rapid, light, and easy. We 
will suppose, therefore, that the seed has been 
collected and sown in some of the many 
boxes now in use'; there for a time it may 
be safely left, whilst we speak of the 
transmission of spawn to barren rivers, either 
at home or abroad. 

This would appear at first sight a very 
simple matter; in practice, however, it has 
been found to be invested with many and 
great difficulties. In fact, the loss sustained 
in the carriage of the seed, as well as from 
the difficulty of obtaining it, has tended more 
than any other cause to retard the develop- 
ment of our inland fisheries; and whilst on 



Collecting the Seed. 91 

this subject it may not be out of place to 
remark that we labour under a difficulty not 
felt by our French neighbours. 

Their fish-breeding establishments at Ar> 
cachon and Huningue send out annually 
millions of eggs^ exactly in the condition in 
which they can be transported with the 
greatest certamty of success — ^namely^ when 
the eyes of the embiyo fish appear to stand 
external to the investing membrane^ rather 
than within it. In this state the loss by 
transmission does not exceed five per cent^ 
but at the same time it must be borne in 
mind that a large share of this success 
depends on the skill and care with which the 
seed is packed for the journey. The mode 
pursued in France is as follows : — ^A certain 
quantity has to be sent off. A box made of 
very thin wood, and about equal in size to 
the crown of an ordinary hat^ is brought to 
the side of a range of hatching-boxes^ in 
which the ova are exactly in the condition 
required. A layer of living moss is then 
placed on the bottom ; on this the eggs, with 



92 Practical Water-Farming. 

a due regard to space, are carefully placed. 
These are in turn covered with moss, more 
eggs are scattered on it, and the process is 
continued till the box is filled. We, however, 
at present do not possess the advantage 
enjoyed by our neighbours, as we have no 
public rearing-establishments. Parties at 
present engaged in fish-culture have few 
incubated eggs to spare, and are, therefore, 
necessitated to send off spawn which has been 
recently vitalised. Unfortunately this is the 
most unfavourable period at which it could 
be supplied to those who require it, for the 
delicate process then in operation is almost 
certain to be injured by motion, firom which 
a new arrangement of particles probably 
takes place, and great loss is thereby 
sustained. 

This state of things we are compelled to 
accept for the present. Hereafter, if not 
undertaken by our Government, the prepara- 
tion of fish-spawn for transmission to distant 
points may become a lucrative commercial 
speculation to private individuals. Mean- 



Collecting the Seed. 93 

while^ various plans have been proposed to 
obviate the difficulties which inevitably 
attend it on the road, none of which, however, 
have proved entirely successful. The two 
best are nearly as follows : — If the distance 
to which the precious freight has to be sent 
is short, fipesh wet moss is the best medium 
in which to pack it ; but should the journey 
be a long one, it is better to forward the seed 
in small wide-mouthed bottles, each capable 
of containing from six to twelve ounces of 
fluid. The moment before transmission, the 
spawn should be carefully bathed in fresh 
water, whilst a slight quantity, drawn from 
the filterer, must be placed in jars, and the 
mouths secured with pieces of calico tied 
over them. The bottles must, of course, be 
placed in a box, and so arranged as to avoid 
an upset. Such a freight is, however, too 
delicate and valuable to be trusted alone, 
and the recipient will act wisely if he sends 
a steady man to take charge of it during the 
journey. 

All this appears plain, yet the mistakes 



94 Practical Water-Farming. 

and disappointments which arise from the 
neglect of minute points of detail, are even 
now very numerous, and I may mention that 
a short time since a considerable quantity of 
eggs, packed in the last-mentioned way, were 
entirely destroyed by the over-zeal of the 
person who superintended the business. This 
man, all his life engaged on a salmon-fisheiy, 
having observed that gravel was always the 
nidus employed by the mother-fish, and 
wishing to be wise above that which was 
written — for full instructions were sent — 
after having conducted all the earlier stages 
with his usual skill, added a handfiil of 
gravel to each bottle ; the act, though kindly 
meant, destroyed every egg, and left the 
hatching-boxes of my friend for this season 
without an occupant. 

Having thus spoken of gathering, storing, 
and transmitting the seed, we shall next 
pass to the consideration of the number and 
cost of our farm-servants, present and pro- 
spective. 



CHAPTER IX. 

THE SEED GROWS. WORK AND WAGES. 

The reader has seen the vitalised seed de- 
posited in its artificial bed ; it is now in full 
growth, the early stages of which are not yet 
so generally known as to justify our passing 
over the subject without at least a brief 
notice. For the first fortnight after im- 
pregnation the eggs apparently exhibit but 
little change ; within the next fourteen days, 
however, if the temperature be not unusually 
low, a marked alteration occurs, and two tiny 
black spots in each, afford unmistakable 
evidence that nature is doing her part in 
assisting the operations of art These small 
specks are the eyes of the future fish, which 
become more and more visible, until the 
embryo bursts the shell, and commences 
independent existence. 



96 Practical Water-Farming. 

The infant salmon on his first appearance 
in the world looks as unlike the future 
monarch of the stream as it is possible to 
conceive. Embarrassed by the umbilical 
bag, of which we have before spoken, it is 
probably the most feeble and helpless of 
created things. The stages and anomalies of 
its growth have been already mentioned, and 
need not be repeated here. There are two 
points, however, connected with its infancy 
which have not been spoken of; namely, space 
and food. As crowding the spawn has been 
shown to be injurious, so, as might naturally 
be expected, insuflGiciency of room is still 
more fatal to the young fry, and many of the 
disappointments which have embarrassed our 
early pisciculturists have been due to this 
cause. The difficulty, however, is so easy to 
overcome that it is unnecessary to carry the 
subject further. In young animals growth 
is rapid, and appetite proportionably vigorous, 
the former being in the exact ratio of the 
latter, nor do we doubt that the difficulty 
these helpless creatures experience in pro- 



Collecting the Seed. 97 

curing an adequate supply is a fruitful source 
of the enormous waste of life which occurs 
amongst them in our rivers and mountain- 
streams. In artificial hatching, however, we 
are able to supply food in a state exactly 
suited to their weak organisation and im- 
perfect digestion. Like other babies, they 
require pap, and though farinaceous food in 
minute division might answer, animal matter, 
carefully rubbed down, has been generally 
employed, and this has usually been either 
bullock's liver well boiled, bruised through 
a sieve, and, with the addition of water, 
made into a sort of soup, or else eggs beaten 
up. Both these articles of nutrition, when 
thrown into the ponds which contain the fry, 
have been found to be greedily taken, and 
materially assist the nutrition and growth of 
the infant brood. 

As a commercial speculation, the farmer 
finds the advantage of feeding his young 
stock as highly as possible. Nor must the 
pisciculturist forget that, if he desires his 
flock to thrive, he must supply food in such 

H 



98 Practical Water-Farming. 

proportions as his observation shows to be 
necessary. 

Practical water-farming, to be successful, 
necessarily demands a close attention to 
details. These, as regards the preparation 
of the farm and the management of the 
infant stock, have been given at considerable 
length. This branch of the subject is now 
concluded, and we come naturally to the 
question of work and wages. 

On the river we have selected as an 
exponent of practical water-farming, keepers 
were, of course, unnecessary for the first two 
years ; after that time, however, they would 
be required. Such little works as we have 
executed were done cheaper, and probably 
better, by ordinary labourers, and the ser- 
vants hitherto in our employ have been only 
the man and boy engaged in charge of the 
nursery. Water-keepers, henceforth, will be 
our servants, constables, rural police, and 
regular troops, all in one. They will assist 
at the capture, packing, and transport of our 
fish to the nearest station; will apprehend 



Water-Bailiffs. 99 

such village-boys as destroy the fry, will keep 
under surveillance men given to poaching, 
and, during the early winter, watch the roods 
night and day to guard our frontier from the 
incursions of marauders. 

It is obvious that a force required to 
discharge such important duties should be 
carefully selected, well taught, and sufficiently 
paid. We will say a few words on each of 
these heads. Character should be made a 
sine qud non with each recruit. Often acting 
alone, with bribery and intimidation brought 
alternately to bear on his cupidity or his 
fear, without moral strength he must fall, 
nor can he so fall without serious loss to his 
employers. 

Then, he should be instructed in his duty ; 
taught what to do, and what not to do; 
when it is wise to act, and when it is prudent 
to be passive — over-zeal is often more in- 
jurious than mere supineness. On the Severn 
the water-bailiffs are furnished with a brief 
and plain summary of the law they have to 
enforce, and are, moreover, taught to under- 



100 Practical Water-Farming. 

stand it; this plan is so excellent that it 
should be everywhere followed. 

I have seen a good deal of these men, 
and believe them to be far more trustworthy 
than it is the fashion to suppose, and feel 
sure they err more often through ignorance 
than design. There can be no more fatal 
economy pursued by fishery proprietors than 
underpaying their staff. Such men are em- 
phatically worth their wages — ay, and good 
wages too. The office is one of trust, vexa- 
tion, and difficulty, and should by superior 
pay be made an object of desire. This would 
be ensured by raising the salary of these ser- 
vants two or three shillings per week above 
the amount usually paid to farm hands in the 
neighbourhood. Such an advance in the 
labour market, if regarded as a mere com- 
mercial speculation, would prove a first-class 
investment, and fifteen or sixteen shillings 
per week to each water-keeper, would, in the 
great majority of cases, secure a gratefiil and 
honest executive. 

The number of troops necessary to defend 



Water-Bailiffs. 101 

our dominions requires a little consideration. 
In the spring and summer they may be re- 
duced considerably, and during that moiety 
of the year one man to every six miles of 
river will generally be found sufficient. As 
the season advances, however, the force must 
be increased, and massed on or about the 
principal fords, at which time one keeper to 
every two or three miles will not be too much 
to ensure efficient protection. 

The next chapter — ^in which four years 
are supposed to pass — will conclude the 
cultivation of salmon, and must involve 
figures ; in fact, it will contain our balance- 
sheet, and we venture to promise, the docu- 
ment shall prove highly satisfactory " to the 
company." 



CHAPTER X. 

THE FARM THRIVES. RAISING FUNDS. 
OUR SECOND AND THIRD HARVESTS. 
BALANCE-SHEET. WE WIND UP AC- 
COUNTS, AND LEAVE THE COMPANY IN 
A PROSPEROUS CONDITION. 

The reader must suppose that four seasons 
have glided away since the first survey 
of our imaginary water-farm was made, 
and pardon us, if for the sake of brevity and 
clearness we speak of some things as actually 
done, which could with certainty have been 
done, under the conditions assumed. With 
regard to income, we repeat that the figures 
given below are less than those realised on a 
river of which we are one of the lessees, that 
has not only a course of seven miles shorter, 
but is far less perfectly cultivated than our 
model farm. But to resume. — ^Four seasons 



Recapitulation. 103 

have passed^ but that time has done wonders 
for us ; the ova first deposited in our boxes 
have long since become parr; these in due 
season were changed into smolts; the sur- 
vivors returned as grilse fix)m their visit to 
the sea; gained the head waters, and were 
permitted to conmaence housekeeping in the 
old-fashioned natural method, with the ex- 
ception of about a score, whose eggs were 
employed to fill our breeding-troughs. Mean- 
while the nursery has done its part, turn- 
ing out each spring from 80,000 to 100,000 
smolts. The water-police are organised, 
and with a little drilling have become 
efficient. Our small river, being one on which 
all the proprietors are bound in a common 
interest, presents few difficulties on the 
important question of finance, for from the 
source to the sea all are united for the 
general good. The entire length of our farm 
is assumed to be about thirty-two miles, and 
as the stream generally forms a natural 
boundary to property, and as the land on 
either bank is in different hands, we have a 



104 Practical Water-Farming. 

clear length of some sixiy-four miles. Each 
mile represents one share, and by an early 
and happy arrangement, powers were vested 
in the chainnan to make a call on every 
shareholder to the amount of £5 per annum, 
which yielded an annual sum of £320 for 
working purposes. These calls were of course 
regularly responded to, and suflGiced for con- 
struction and improvements ; for the nursery, 
and incidental expenses. 

On a stream cultivated so carefully as 
ours, proprietors would be fully justified in 
fishing for market during the fifth summer, 
nor would eleven tons of salmon be an over- 
estimate for the season. If we suppose 
prices to be low, say eightpence per pound, 
the total value would amount to something 
about £821. In the sixth year, the returns 
might reasonably be expected to reach a higher 
figure; but, without further speculation, let 
us take the sum already mentioned, and 
see how the investment stands. From it the 
working expenses, £320, must be deducted, 
leaving an available balance of £501 to be 



- Profit 105 

divided amongst the shareholders. We will 
suppose for the sake of argument that four 
calls of £5 each have been made, in which 
case the stock of each investor would repre- 
sent £20, bearing interest at the rate of 
something very like £38 per cent. It must 
not, however, be supposed that our farm has 
reached its maximum of profit, or that it is 
by any means fiilly stocked ; on the contrary, 
the nursery should be enlarged to twice its 
present productive capacity, and similar 
establishments be erected at suitable points 
along the river. In fact, it is impossible to 
say, with any degree of accuracy, to what 
extent a river may not be developed by the 
combined influences of art and nature. So 
far as our present experience goes, it is 
evident that the returns have hitherto been 
in the ratio of artificial propagation, improve- 
ments, and the number of its breeding fish* 
Indeed, there seems no limit to production, 
since the more smolts we send to the sea the 
greater will be the produce of the following 
harvest. The land, in the present state of 



106 Practical Water-Farming. 

agricultural knowledge, can only give a 
certain return ; but our salmon-streams own 
no such restrictions, for the ocean feeds and 
grows the crop we reap. There is no fear of 
our water-farms being exhausted by their 
production, for the king of fish employs them, 
not as pasture-grounds, but as highways along 
which he passes to deposit the treasure des- 
tined to feed and enrich mankind. 

The future of salmon-farms will depend 
on the care, labour, and intelligence, bestowed 
on them. Enough has been said to show 
that such property oflTers a first-rate com- 
mercial speculation, but, like any other 
concern, it may be ruined by carelessness or 
incompetence. We, however, have pointed 
out how a barren river can be improved, how 
spawning-grounds may be multiplied, how a 
nursery should be built and managed ; have 
spoken of various details necessary to ensure 
success; and have, in conclusion, presented 
our balance-sheet by way of illustration. 

In point of profit, the salmon is incom- 
parably the best fish to cultivate, whether its 



Proiit. 107 

intrinsic excellence or rapidity of growth be 
considered ; but many waters of the United 
Kingdom are not suited for its successful 
production^ and it is to these that we shall 
presently direct our attention, after the 
consideration of a few questions, which arise 
out of, and must exercise an important 
influence on, the artificial culture of the 
SalmonidsB. 



CHAPTER XL 

GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. 

It may well be asked why pisciculture has 
made so slow a progress in these kingdoms. 
That it has been neglected there can be no 
doubt, but it is equally certain that the 
apathy and suspicion with which it has been 
regarded, have existed in the face of evidence 
sufficient to show the science deserved at 
least serious consideration, if not unbounded 
confidence. The causes which have hitherto 
retarded its advance, may not, in a treatise 
like the present, be unworthy of examina- 
tion. 

From time to time, within the last few 
years, various partial and short-lived at- 
tempts have been made to improve water 
property. These attempts, however — seldom 
conducted on any definite principles — ^were 



General Observations. 109 

unsupported by perseverance or adequate 
capital. As might have been expected, they 
failed, from a combination of circumstances, 
hardly, perhaps, understood by those who 
conducted the enterprise. These abortive 
efforts proved more injurious to the cause than 
total neglect, since they furnished specious ar- 
guments to the indolent and unbelieving, and 
enabled them to throw discredit on a dis- 
covery that deserved investigation rather than 
disparagement. The science was a noveliy, 
and with a great majority of proprietors took 
rank amongst the bubbles of the day. Here 
and there, however, detached parts of the 
new art were worked out with enterprise, 
perseverance, and skill, and the results made 
known. Gradually a change came over the 
public mind; water-culture ceased to be 
regarded as the visionary speculation of a 
few harmless enthusiasts; a reaction took 
place in its favour, and men became willing 
to be convinced, where they had hitherto 
been wilful sceptics. Henceforth, the system 
will be worked out according to scientific 



110 Practical Water-Farming. 

knowledge and common-sense business prin- 
ciples. We see the difficulties that are 
before us, and feel that we can surmount 
them; we know what class of streams will 
pay with very small outlay, what rivers have 
little or no chance of achieving commercial 
success under existing conditions, and so 
forth. As we want no more failures, it is 
earnestly to be hoped that the enterprise 
now awakened will take wisdom for its guide, 
and make choice of waters in which disap- 
pointment is next to impossible, and success 
certain. 

"Ladders" may be cited as one of the 
"partial attempts" alluded to, and as the 
question is one of great moment, we may be 
pardoned for discussing it. The name was 
in itself a misfortune, since it has, I believe, 
in no small degree, suggested many designs 
more curious than efiective. These complex 
curiosities, faulty in construction, were often 
rendered absolutely useless by malposition; 
they were passes which no salmon could pass, 
and served only to bring into disrepute a 



General Observations. Ill 

principle which, if correctly applied, would 
have been invaluable. Wherever they have 
been constructed on a gradient of 1 in 
9 — 1 in 10 would be still better — ^they have 
answered admirably. But, unfortunately, 
we hear less of our few successes than our 
many failures ; moreover, these ladders have 
been, and still are, made a kind of party 
question, chiefly, perhaps, because certain 
inventors in high places defend indefensible 
positions, and thus, so far as in them lies, 
help to perpetuate existing evils. This 
paltry vanity is below the dignity of genius. 
Rome was not built in a day, and early 
inventions may, without offence, be supposed 
capable of improvement. Projectors should 
rest satisfied with "the idea," if they fall 
short of perfection, and jfrankly own the 
merit of those who have improved on what 
they designed. Meanwhile the public are 
perplexed. When great fish-doctors dis- 
agree, how can they decide? If commis- 
sioners, instead of wrangling, would clearly 
explain the construction and position of 



112 Practical Water-Farming. 

passes whose efficiency is acknowledged, they 
would do the state good service. 

Whilst on this subject, we will lay before 
the reader an extract from an admirable letter 
recently published by Mr. J. H. Horsfall. 
" A weir 8 feet or 9 feet high would require 
a pass 64 feet or 72 feet long, to have a 
gradient of 1 in 7. Up such a pass no 
salmon can ever swim. It has been ob- 
jected that a ladder with an easier gradient 
is more expensive, but the public may depend 
upon it, that money laid out on a ladder 
having a gradient of 1 in 10, will prove 
a much better investment, than money ex- 
pended on a ladder having a gradient of 
1 in 7. In salmon-passes, as in other 
things, that is not always the cheapest article 
which costs the least money. Colonel White 
is quite correct when he imagines that it 
would be possible to take salmon over the 
Falls of Niagara, if the passage for them was 
so constructed that the fish could rest on 
their journey up it. It is necessary, however, 
in order to accomplish this, to make the 



Oeneral Observations. 113 

floors of the chambers slope the reverse way 
to the incline of the ladder, for most sur- 
prising results have been obtamed with 
ladders having the bed of the chambers 
sloping parallel with the incline of the 
ladder, and thete is an improvement on 
this. The object to be attained is to reduce 
the speed at which the water flows ; this is 
done by an easy incline, by the friction of 
the sides and bottom of the ladder, and 
also by regulating the volume of the stream 
above." 

All this is sound doctrine, and we believe 
if Her Majesty's inspectors would call Mr. 
Horsfall to their councils, and order passes 
to be erected under the personal supervision 
of that gentleman, we should have more 
salmon, and less complaining. These are 
some of the causes which have hitherto 
retarded the progress of pisciculture ; let us 
see what evidence can be advanced in its 
favour. Every year at Huningue and Arca- 
chon, millions of eggs are regularly vitalised 
and transmitted over the Continent. In 
I 



114 Practical Water-Farming. 

London and its immediate neighbourhood^ 
public bodies and private individuals are 
steadily demonstrating the infallible certainty 
which attends the artificial hatching of fish- 
spawn. At Galway and Stormontfield — in 
the establishment of Mr. Gillespie — on a 
smaller scale^ — on a hundred lawns^ and in 
many a study^ the process is attended with 
unvarying success; nor does the evidence 
in favour of our art end here, for its economy 
is as evident as its commercial importance. 
These are facts, the value of which cannot 
easily be over-rated. We are not so Utopian 
as to assert that the final triumph of our 
rivers can be achieved without patience, 
skill, and money. In many of our smaller 
waters, as for example, in the highlands of 
Scotland, in the north and west of England, 
and in numberless streams in Ireland and 
Wales, the difficulty will be found trifling, 
and needs only to be grappled with to ensure 
success ; but on our larger rivers, pollutions, 
mill rights, natural and artificial obstructions, 
together with indiflference or selfish policy 



General Observations. 115 

amongst proprietors^ offer at present serious 
obstacles. 

That these will in time be overcome seems 
certain. Over the length and breadth of the 
land, men are now beginning seriously to 
consider the propriety of working mines of 
wealth, hitherto only explored. Objections, 
founded on the novelty of such undertakings, 
are daily losing force — doctrines, in them- 
selves sound, are recognised and accepted — 
truth and error are clearly defined — half- 
measures and party-strife are alike con- 
demned — ^money is plenty, and food dear — 
security for investment is needed — ^the un- 
certainty of speculation grows daily more 
manifest, and now the time has arrived 
when motives of prudence, patriotism, and 
philanthropy, equally urge us to cultivate the 
water as we have cultivated the land. Let 
a tithe of the money annually spent on the 
latter, be applied to the former, and we 
unhesitatingly afi&rm, that the returns shall 
convince the most incredulous, and satisfy 
the most exacting. 



CHAPTER XII. 

TROUT. 

In the old mediseyal days^ ponds and stews^ 
river and mere, were almost necessary adjuncts 
to monastic establishments^ and the rearing 
and fattening of fish for the table was at that 
time well understood and actively followed. 
Necessarily this knowledge formed an imports 
ant part of their farm management^ and we 
may suppose that the good brothers, about 
the Lenten season, looked anxiously at many 
a corpulent carp, or golden trout, and specu- 
lated pleasantly on the joys of fasting. With 
the fall of the old faith, fish lost much of 
their commercial value, but now an incBcasing 
population and increasing wealth, have so far 
advanced the price of food that every aid to 
production is required, and anything which can 
be produced is certain to meet a ready sale. 



Trout. 117 

In this altered state of things we once more 
look to our lakes^ ponds^ and streams/ as 
sources of supply. These are as yet but in 
their infancy^ and we must regard them rather 
for what they will be, than for what they are. 
Fish-culture at present is principally directed 
to our fore-shores and salmon streams, but we 
are not entirely without data as to the value 
to be derived from the commercial cultivation 
of trout. 

At Heidelbei^, and at other places in 
Germany, these fish are regularly prepared 
for market ; but leaving Europe, we will for 
the present cross the Atlantic, and see what 
our American cousins can teach us, before 
speaking of the future utilisation of our 
bright English streams. 

Mr. Francis, one of the most studious pisci- 
culturists of the day, writes, "In Europe, Asia, 
Africa, and Australia, there seems to be a 
great interest displayed on this subject, and 
the idea appears to be gaining ground that the 
greater part of the human race have so &r 
been only tillers of the ground, and have 



118 Practical Water-Farming. 

n^lected to cultiyate one-half of the bounties 
of Providence, in not extending the same 
attention to the water." In India, at this 
moment they are engaged in the attempt to 
introduce trout; in Australia, eggs both of 
the salmon and trout, sent from the mother 
country, have been successfully hatched. 
New Zealand has followed in the footsteps of 
her elder sister, whilst all over Europe — in 
France, Germany, Italy, Norway, and Sweden 
— pisciculture is day by day becoming a more 
profitable calling. But it is from America 
that we must learn our first lesson, and our 
text-book shall be the New York Tribune, 
published January 28th, 1866. For the 
benefit of our readers we will epitomise the 
pamphlet. Near the town of Spring Water 
flows a small brook, in which, during the 
course of five or six years — ^without the aid 
of artificial hatching— trout have been multi- 
plied to a degree almost incredible. These 
fish have increased not only in number but 
in size, so far as we can learn, merely from 
preservation, and the formation of larger pools 



Trout. 119 

by the erection of dams; for it does not 
appear that food was directly provided, which 
might hare been done easily and cheaply by 
collecting from the adjoining fields, worms, 
slugs, insects, and grubs. The trout, though 
what old Isaac calls " dainty meat," is by no 
means dainty in his diet ; on the contrary, like 
the Rev. Dr. Gaster, he is omnivorous, and 
few things that can be eaten come amiss to 
hinu The writer, whose paper lies before me, 
tells us, "I visited the ponds, three in number, 
by invitation last summer, with rod and line, 
and took trout from lib. to 2lbs. in weight 
almost at every cast. They were beautiftJ, 
fat, and healthy. The stream did not yield 
a volume of more than thirty square inches 
of water at the time I was there. This shows 
to what extent trout may be increased and 
grown by damming and screening small 
brooks." Passing from facts to figures, it 
may not be out of place to mention that this 
little water-farm was recently sold for 8500 
dollars. Surely this ought to be suflBciently 
encouraging to English country gentlemen. 



120 Practical Water-Farming. 

few of whom . have not a brook of equal 
natural excellence and greater size^ than 
that of Spring Water, flowing through their 
property. 

But a greater inducement to the cultivation 
of our hitherto neglected streams remains to 
be mentioned. In Livingstone County, New 
York, are the Caledonian springs, the head 
waters of a brook which runs through the 
village of Caledonia. The entire length of this 
rivulet hardly exceeds one mile, when it unites 
with Allen's Creek, one of the tributaries of 
the Genessee. This wonderful stream, the 
most prolific probably in the world, from the 
source to its junction with the creek just 
mentioned, has a fall of about fi% feet, and 
flows through one of the richest and most 
thickly populated portions of the state. At 
the risk of being tedious we must be minute, 
as most of the facts which follow bear an 
intimate relation to the fecundity of "the 
springs," and will largely assist us in the 
pi^tical farming of the fish of which we are 
speaking. 



Trmit 121 

The brook, being dammed for the use of 
mills, occupies about six acres. The water 
is remarkably clear and pure; whilst the 
bottom is covered with small white shells 
and gravel — just such a bottom, in short, as 
is to be seen in ten thousand of our rivulets. 
As might be expected &om its transparency, 
the water is rather strongly impregnated with 
lime, and is said, moreover, to hold sulphur 
in solution. The uniformity of temperature, 
however, probably exercises a greater influence 
on the productiveness of the stream than its 
chemical constituents, the average being 48 
deg. the whole year round. And now we 
arrive at what is, in all probability, the secret 
of the marvellous fecundity of this small 
water-farm, for we learn that through its 
entire length, every stone, stick, weed, and 
blade of grass, is literally covered, summer 
and winter, with insect life. The first settlers 
found the stream absolutely filled with trout 
of great size. That it is still amply stocked 
at the present time, the following figures will 
show; and here I cannot do better than 



122 Practical Water-Farming. 

quote from the paper before me : — " The 
fishermen tell me that at a low calculatioD 
there are 4000 trout taken from the stream 
annually^ and they compute the number to- 
day at 320,000 of all sizes, from 41b. to 5lb. 
to 4 mches or 5 inches in length." All this 
is sufficiently definite, but when the writer 
grasps his rod, and kills 110 fine trout in 
about three hours, he provokes us poorer 
brethren of the angle to break the tenth 
commandment, and covet our neighbours' 
stream, and our neighbours' trout, with other 
piscatorial blessings by him possessed. 

Greater wonders remain to be told ; about 
two years ago the springs were purchased for 
the purpose of rearing trout, artificially as 
well as naturally, by a gentleman who has 
since actively followed up the design. One 
more quotation and we have done with our 
transatlantic companion.* "He," the for- 

* Tremendous as these figures unquestionably are, we 
can scarcely reject them. It must, however, be observed 
we do not give them on our own authority. The reader 
who refers to the Fields vol. 27, p. 213, wiU see more of 
the New York Tribune than has been transferred to these 



Trout. 123 

tunate Seth Green, Esq., "has one pond 
only 7^ feet long, 12 feet wide, and 5 feet 
deep, that has 9000 trout m it, &om 9 inches 
to 20 inches long, that will weigh from a 
quarter of a pound to three pounds each, all 
as fat as seals, and as beautiful as trout can 
possibly be, all caught with the fly by his own 
hand since he bought the creek, and all can 
be seen now any day, at one view, by any 
person who will take the trouble to call on 
him. Only think what a sight, 9000 such 
trout all in the eye at once. What a gigantic 
and magnificent aquarium." It seems in- 
credible how so great a number could thriye 
in a space so small, but we are informed that 
the current which passes through it is suffi- 
cient to change the water every minute of the 
day, and that in this preserve the fish were fed. 
Though much of the above may sound like 
" tall talking" to British ears, there appears 
no reason whatever to doubt its accuracy, nor, 
so far as we know, has its truth ever been 
called in question. On the contrary, the 
statements of the editor of the New York 



124 Practical Water-Farming, 

Tribune have been accepted by his contem- 
poraries in this country^ and quoted^ in good 
fedth; by many of our best aqueculturists. 

Instances might easily be multiplied to 
prove that trout cultivation offers no small 
inducement for commercial speculation. 
Enough has been said^ however^ to establish 
the position, and we will, for the remaining 
portion of this chapter, confine our attention 
to the small streams which in so lai^e a 
proportion of the English counties flow pure 
and uncontaminated through every valley, 
and inquire generally how far they are 
capable of being made productive. What 
the brooks are in Wiltshire, they are in 
Hants, Somerset, Devon, Cornwall, and nearly 
every other of the fifty-two counties in Eng- 
land and Wales — ^namely, clear rapid rivu- 
lets, more or less wooded, now murmuring 
over the shallows, now falling into deeper 
pools, with a varying course of from three 
to ten miles. Amongst these I have passed 
a considerable portion of my life, and assert 



Trmt. 125 

not only that there is no inherent cause 
why they should not singly form productive 
water-farms, but that there is every reason 
to believe they would .answer admirably. 
They seem, at least, to possess every element 
necessary to success. The water is generally 
extremely pure, and flows through meadows 
as rich as any in the world, whilst the rank 
vegetation along the banks ensures a lai^e 
supply of insect food. Of course they will 
require damming and improving, but of 
this we shall say nothing here, as "con- 
struction" will form the subject of a subse- 
quent chapter. 

As the cultivation of our inland brooks, 
in so far as the public are concerned, is a 
res nova, and as example is better than 
precept, we have endeavoured to show what 
has actually been accomplished by our trans- 
atlantic brethren, and have pointed out that 
no reason exists why we of the Old World 
should not do likewise. In the next chapter 
we shall glance at the state of the com- 



126 Practical Water-Farming. 

mercial cultivation of trout in Europe, and 
in the following one on this subject, point 
out in detail the steps necessary to be taken 
in order to make the brooks of England as 
prolific as any of their size in the New or 
Old WorW. 



CHAPTER XIII. 

TROUT. 

Every one knows that the French Govern- 
ment has for several years past given the 
closest attention to the subject of pisci- 
culture, annually sending out from Huningue 
and Arcachon millions of ova procured from 
various first-class fresh-water fish, to re-stock 
the impoverished waters of the Continent. 
Of course the largest quantity of this vitalised 
seed was sown in the rivers of France, which 
year after year continued to receive fresh 
importations of this precious commodity. 
All that skill and industry could do, was 
done. The scheme has been fairly tried, and 
we are justly entitled to ask what are the 
results. 

It might reasonably be expected that the 
rivers of France, after such close and ad- 



128 Practical Water-Farming. 

mirable cultiyation^ should^ if there be any 
truth m the doctrine of aqueculture, now be 
folly stocked. Such, however, is not the 
case, and that the science may not suffer 
&om misconstruction, it becomes necessary 
to account for the failure. 

The ova sent was forwarded exactly in 
the condition best suited for transmission, 
five per cent only being wasted between the 
breeding-boxes and the river for which it was 
designed. In fact, the eggs prospered, and 
produced thousands and tens of thoiisands 
of young fish ; but unfortunately, until the 
last season, there were no fishery laws in 
lYance to direct what sized mesh should be 
used in netting, or at what season fishing 
should cease. The consequence was, that 
the fish hatched were not allowed to come 
.to maturity, and thus the only use derived 
from the artifidal method, was the artificial 
production of vast numbers of fry, which, 
being killed as fry, in no way ftirthered the 
designs of the Government, and almost en- 
tirely neutralised the labours of Arcachon 



Trout 129 

and Himingue. Happily this can no longer 
be done, as a law was lately passed, based 
on, and nearly identical with, our present 
Fishery Act, which ensures that the seed 
henceforth to be sown, shall not only come 
to maturity but bear fruit, and thus con- 
tribute to the fertility of those waters which 
a wise legislation, having so ably fostered, 
has at length protected. 

Having thus accounted for the practical 
failure of pisciculture in the rivers of France, 
we will proceed to notice briefly two or three 
continental establishments where the science 
pays; point out the importance of inland 
fisheries as a source of national wealth, speak 
of the produce and market-value of the trout 
in Loch Leven ; and, in conclusion, say a few 
words on the fertility of the smallest of 
conceivable cottar water-farms, which, al- 
though entirely without cultivation — pro- 
perly so called — yielded year after year an 
abundant harvest. 

Near Heidelberg, at the village of Wolfs- 
brunnen, are beautiful trout-ponds, where 
K 



130 Practical Water-Farming. 

this delicate fish has a strictly commercial 
existence. The farm has been under culti- 
vation for some years, and is still flourishing. 
We may reasonably infer, therefore, that it 
has proved a money success, as the works 
would not have been carried on at a loss. 
I hoped to obtain an accurate statement of 
the profits and outlay derived from, or ex- 
pended on, these ponds, but have hitherto 
been disappointed, by the illness of an old 
and distinguished friend. 

The establishment of M. de Galbert is 
probably one of the most important which 
exists in France. It consists of a chain of 
ponds with islands, canals, submerged rocks, 
and wire screens, to isolate the fish of 
difierent ages, whilst feeding is, of course, a 
prominent feature of the management. The 
works are situated at Buisse, on the south- 
eastern frontier, and comprise four ponds for 
fish in different stages of growth. These it 
is unnecessary to describe minutely. One 
point, however, demands notice — namely, 
that the streams which supply the ponds are 



Trout 131 

of an elevated temperature. It may be 
remembered, that when speaking of the 
prolific trout streams at the village of Cale- 
donia, in the State of New York, the high 
temperature of the water was noticed, as 
exercising a considerable influence on pro- 
duction ; and here again we find the same 
peculiarity on the banks of the Isere. These 
facts are well worthy the consideration of 
those amoi^t us who are about to cultivate 
their streams. That heat is agreeable, if not 
advantageous, to most fresh-water fish, the 
following anecdote will show : — Not five 
minutes' walk from my house runs a canal, 
which, like all such pieces of water, holds 
abundance of pike, perch, tfench, roach, and 
other coarse fish. About seven years ago a 
steam-mill was erected on its banks, and 
poured, by means of a water-pipe, a nearly 
constant and considerable stream of hot 
water into the main channel. Previous to 
the erection of these works, for some un- 
explained reason, this portion of the water 
was held by the experienced in especial 



132 Practical Water-Farming. 

disfavour; certain it is, that passing it con- 
stantly, I scarcely ever remember to have 
seen any person angling there. Now, how- 
ever, "the swim" has risen enonnously in 
public favour, and is probably the best spot 
for angling in the 110 miles which make up 
the entire length of the canal. A month 
since I saw a friend take three pike, by 
trolling, about twelve yards from the mouth 
of the pipe previously mentioned, at a 
time when it was pouring out a con- 
siderable quantity of hot water, which must 
have been of a very high temperature, if we 
could judge by the steam. We will re- 
turn,, however, for a moment to the farm 
of M. de Galbert. Here fish-cultufe is 
eminently a business transaction, and entirely 
successful. 

The anxiety displayed by the French 
Government to make pisciculture one of the 
practical industries of the day is very re- 
markable, proving to a demonstration, that 
the astute monarch of one of the most in- 
telligent races on earth sees his way to a 



Trout. 133 

great success. Prior to the passing of 
the recent fishery law in France, the money 
value of her waters may be stated as follows, 
calculated in pounds sterling : — 

Eetums from rivers and canals £28,000 
Half returns from estuaries . 23,000 

Private waters 2,680 

1 1 4,88 9 miles of water-courses 1 48,000 
Lakes and ponds .... 400,000 



Total. . . . £601,680 



What will be the value of these waters 
when the new fishery laws have efiected the 
improvement they inevitably will produce, it 
is difficult to imagine, but they must prove 
great indeed. 

Much of the artificial cultivation of fresh 
water is carried on in France, Italy, and 
Germany, in ponds generally connected with 
some neighbouring river. With these, at 
present, we have little interest, since our 
earliest efibrts at the cultivation of trout will 
be made on some of the countless brooks 
which, ready to our hands, meander through 



134 Practical Water-Farming, 

every English valley. Instances of successftd 
continental pisciculture, like that carried on 
at Wolfsbnmnen and Suisse, might, however, 
be easily multiplied, but enough has been 
said to show that labour in this direction is 
remunerative. That similar waters in this 
country are able to produce trout of extra- 
ordinary size, the rough picture of the fish 
grown in the Alresford ponds, and at 
present hung in the hatching department of 
the Kensington museum, proves indisputably. 
The weight of this corpulent monster is stated 
to have been fifteen pounds. 

Twenty-two miles from Edinburgh is Loch 
Leven. We shall say a few words about this 
lake, not because it is more productive than 
a hundred others of the same size, but because 
the supposed quality of the trout has given it 
a high local reputation. Although, in conse- 
quence of the drainage of the lake in 1830, 
— at which time the water was reduced to a 
third of its former dimensions, — ^this boasted 
fish is said to have degenerated, it is still of 
considerable commercial value, since it cannot 



Trout. 135 

be purchased in the Scottish Capital under 
two shillings per pound. 

During the past autumn I visited this 
lake a few days after the close of the season, 
but was unable to obtain reliable statistics 
as to the weight taken. The lessee however 
assured me it was above the average. In 
former years, during the seven months which 
constituted the fishing season, from 15,000 
to 20,000 pounds were annually captured. 
This estimate will, at the lowest calculation, 
give an annual money value of £1500 sterling. 
Nor is this all, since the revenue derived from 
angling must be very large, for a friend who 
fished the lake during the last summer assured 
me the terms, including, I believe, a boat 
and men, were £1:2:6 per day, and that 
numbers of persons are always ready to pay 
even this ridiculous price. 

In speaking of these trout I have used the 
phrase "supposed quality," firmly believing 
that those of Belvedere Lake, Dereveragh, 
Lough Ouel, Lough ^rrow, and a hundred 
others, produce fish of equal excellence. If 



136 Practical Water-Farming. 

Loch Leven were cultivated, instead of 
bemg merely preserved, it would be a mine 
of wealth, and might serve to illustrate the 
value of the n^lected lakes of Scotland and 
Ireland. 

Half-an-hour's walk fix)m the town-hall of 
the most beautiful cily in the West of Eng- 
land, nestles a small green valley, to which 
we will give the name of Combe English. 
Through it tinkles the tiniest rill that ever 
held a trout. As its entire length does not 
exceed a mile and a half, the stream cannot 
have a productive course exceeding a mile 
and a quarter before it joins a larger tributary, 
which, meandering through a lateral vale, 
hurries on towards the Avon. Many a year 
ago I knew the locality well, and the old- 
world farmer whose meadows enclosed the 
little brook on either bank, from its source in 
a wood to its debouchment into the Preston 
river. My old friend the farmer had a son, 
" a sad dunce," he said, " who took to reading 
and fishing, and would never be fit for any- 
thing." This urchin, however, had his own 



Trout 137 

views of life, and for ten years angled and 
studied in and about the runlet before men- 
tioned ; his daUj take in the paternal stream 
firom March to September was, at a low 
calculation, six brace, and as each fish aver- 
aged four ounces, the weekly returns ranged 
from eighteen shillings to one pound sterling, 
giving an^annual income of about £28. This 
little water-farm was in operation long before 
the modem science of pisciculture had been 
heard of; the acting agent was but a country 
bumpkin, whose only idea was to catch all he 
could. He never dreamed of breeding, feed- 
ing, or enlarging the pools, which, when I 
last saw them, ranged from the size of an 
ordinary hat to the dimensions of an average 
sized tea-tray, whilst the streams which con- 
nected them rarely exceeded twelve inches in 
breadth, by two or three in depth. Yet the 
rill, in ten summers, gave this boy £280, and 
started him in a literary life, in which he has 
already made himself a name. Had this 
puny rivulet been improved, as it doubtless 
would have been — ^had modem doctrines been 



138 Practical Water-Farming, 

preached five-and-twenty years ago — its value 
might have been trebled. 

We have told this story by way of preface 
to the following chapter, in which we shall 
deal briefly and practically with the cultiva- 
tion of trout in our English brooks. 



CHAPTER XIV. 

TROUT. 

The brook we propose to adapt to the 
purposes of trout-cultivation has not merely 
an imaginary existence ; on the contrary, it 
belongs to a friend, and by its banks I have 
whiled away many a happy hour. Every 
inch of it is well known to me, and from its 
source on a low green hill to its debouchment 
into a river that will one day take its place 
amongst our salmon-streams, I could tread 
its margin blindfold. There is nothing re- 
markable about it; nothing unusually favour- 
able for the ends we have in view. It is 
clear, of average purity and moderate volume, 
with a course of nearly four miles — ^in short, 
it is nothing more than an ordinary brook, 
such as may be seen in almost every English 
valley. Yet out of this we propose to con- 



140 Practical Water-Farming. 

struct a small water-fann. The systematic 
cultiyation of our rivulets is yet in futuro ; 
indeed, so far as we can ascertain, there is no 
instance in which it has been attempted. 
As we cannot therefore appeal to facts, we 
must resort to hypotheses, and beg the 
reader to imagine that in the autumn of 
1861, the writer was requested to undertake 
the cultivation of the stream in question. 
In the details, however, about to be given, it 
is earnestly insisted on, that there is neither 
speculation nor uncertainty. 

The agriculturist, when he has prepared 
his land, and sown good seed therein, will 
not be deemed a visionary because he 
calculates on the coming harvest with 
certainty. Time, custom, and experience 
plead for him, and were he pressed for cash, 
he could raise money on the growing crops, 
as on any other first-class security. The 
pisciculturist possesses none of these advan- 
tages, time has done nothing for him, " yet 
truth is great and will prevail," and his art, 
which the public now regard with suspicion 



Trout. 141 

as a theory, will ere long be ax5cepted as a 
fact. 

This, however, is a digression. We have 
undertaken to convert a barren rivulet into a 
profitable little water-fann; and when we 
have shown the mode in which it ought to 
be stocked, nursed, and worked, we will, in 
conclusion, lay such commercial results as we 
have a right to calculate on, before the 
reader. At present it is a wilderness 
containing only/ercp naturcd of very indifferent 
quality — comparatively valueless as property. 
The first step to be taken in the way of im- 
provement is to enlarge and secure the 
safety of the pools, which will hereafter 
form pastures for the new stock we intend to 
introduce. This must be done from one end 
of the rivulet to the other, so that if possible 
no part shall be unproductive or unprotected. 
As one pool will resemble another, we need 
only describe the mode of constructing the 
first, premising that as we descend the stream, 
each will be somewhat larger than the one 



142 Practical Water-Farming. 

above — ^that is ,to say, in the ratio of the in- 
creasing volume of water. 

Commencing at the head of the brook, 
we will erect the first dam and enlarge the 
first pool, at a point where the natural 
channel is about two feet in width; — the 
alders and hazels which fringe the stream 
fiimish ample materials for our work. The 
reader must suppose that we are accompanied 
by a couple of ordinary agricultural labourers, 
armed with hook, mallet, and spade; and 
these form for our purpose an ample corps of 
sappers and miners. Ten minutes will 
suflBce to cut down and tie up two faggots 
of the required length — say about 5 feet. 
This will allow 12 inches at each end to 
be inserted into corresponding niches on 
either bank. A short stake driven through 
the extremities will prevent the possibility of 
their removal by floods or other accidents, and 
a few shovelsfol of stone and gravel, together 
with a layer of sods, complete the work, and 
make a dam so effectual, that it will last for 
ever ; in fact, the winter-freshes — ^by adding 



Trout. 143 

sand, dead leaves, twigs, and such like — ^tend 
to keep it in continual repair. We have now 
erected our first weir, and by taking an acute 
triangular strip of turf, 12 inches broad at 
the base, from each side ahove the barrier, 
have doubled the width of that portion of 
the stream, converting the original channel 
of 2 feet into 4. The next point is to 
construct a pond below, which we make 
about 5 feet wide, 10 feet long, and 3 feet in 
depth; gradually, however, becoming shallower 
as it approaches the run below. Having thus 
enclosed what may be called the first pasture 
in our small farm, the next thing to be done 
is to insure the security of the stock we pro- 
pose placing therein. To efiect this, two 
stones of about a hundredweight each should 
be set in the centre of the pool, at a 
distance of 3 feet from each other, and over 
these a flat slab must be laid. This structure, 
resembling a subaqueous bridge, possesses 
two advantages — namely, affording shelter to 
the fish in hot weather, and protecting them 
almost absolutely from the assaults of night 



144 Practical Water-Farming. 

poachers. Descending the stream, we repeat 
the process about 60 yards below, and 
continue to do so at similar intervals till we 
reach the main river. This work might 
easily be effected by two labourers, under 
judicious direction, in three weeks ; and two 
or three days more might be occupied in a 
careful inspection and improvement of the 
various pools and dams : such, for example, 
as increasing the height of the falls, by 
adding an additional faggot to some of the 
weirs, and raising a light turf embankment 
on either shore, 10 or 12 inches in height, so 
as to correspond with the additional elevation 
given to the edge of the dam. We will 
therefore suppose this portion of our work 
completed, and we may here repeat, that if 
executed according to the directions given, 
such work will last almost for ever. 

In grazing-farmsthe success of the agricul- 
turist depends greatly on the quality and 
quantity of the fodder he is able to furnish 
for his live stock ; the same rule holds good in 
the case of the pisciculturist. In all brooks 



Trout 145 

such as the one m question^ the crawfish 
thrives admirably. The introduction of this 
small crustacean^ whilst dii*ectly increasing the 
commercial value of the property, furnishes 
an excellent and abundant supply of food for 
our stock. 

It should have been mentioned, that the 
stream we are supposed to be improving, 
holds a considerable number of small white- 
fleshed trout, which we believe by judicious 
feeding might have been converted into the 
delicate pink article so highly prized at our 
dinner-tables. It is unnecessary, however, 
to discuss this question, since no water-farm 
should exist without a nursery, and our 
hatching-boxes can readily be supplied with 
vitalised seed from the fine red trout to be 
obtained from the Kennet, or any of the 
Hampshire rivers. 

Most of our British fishes have strong 
cannibal propensities, and as none are more 
voracious than the common trout, the reader 
may suppose we did our best to eradicate the 
original unprofitable denizens of the water, 



146 Practical Water-Farming. 

and thus were able to send to market more 
than sufficient to pay the cost of construction 
twice over. At this moment, therefore, our 
farm is without stock of any kind, if we 
except the few hundred crawfish which have 
been placed in it to breed and multiply for 
future use. 

The reader must be kind enough to 
imagine that we have been busily occupied 
in hatching from the best-known species of 
trout; turning each year's brood into the 
stream, when sufficiently strong to take care 
of themselves. Attention, however, must not 
be confined to the nursery, as inspecting the 
farm and feeding the young stock should 
form part of each day's business. The 
inspection need not occupy much time or 
give much trouble, the principal point being 
to ascertain that the ponds and dams are 
sound, and show no signs of having been 
robbed. 

Feeding, however, is not only a more 
important, but a more troublesome duty. As 
soon as our first brood attains the weight of 



Trmt. 147 

5 or 6 ounces^ it becomes needful to supply 
them with ample means of rapid growth ; to 
ensure this^ four children will be sufficient to 
collect snailS; slugs^ worms^ grubs^ and larvse 
of all kinds. These should be delivered 
about noon each day at the nursery, where 
they could be prepared for use, and then 
divided amongst the collectors, each of whom 
would have to distribute his portion equally 
between the dams and pools contained in the 
mile of water placed under his care. This 
simple plan will be found to answer admir- 
ably, and ensure the rapid growth of the 
fish. Four years must be supposed to have 
passed, and to have given us fine healthy 
trout averaging nearly one pound each. 

Having brought our management to this 
point, we will epitomise and take a rapid 
glance at our improving property. A small 
stream, scarcely four miles in length, has been 
altered (on paper) to suit the requirements 
of fish-rearing. Three hundred and forty- 
eight ponds and dams have been cut, and 
have thus increased our available space enor- 



148 Practical Water-Farming. 

mously ; one set of hatching-boxes has proved 
amply sufficient for our wants; and being 
carefully put up, have since continued in good 
working order, giving us 6000 or 7000 fiy 
each spring. 

Meanwhile, our first hatch spawned in their 
season, and the produce added largely to 
the number of the fiy artificially raised ; in 
fact, our small farm by this time contained a 
stock as large as it could support. Our plan 
for feeding . being based on principles as 
natural as economical, the fields, lanes, 
ditches, and hedgerows, yielded an abundant 
supply of food, and our small collectors have 
not been ill paid at 3s. 6d. each per week. 

Had these results really been attained, in 
May 1865 we diould have been enabled to 
fish the pools and dams for market, and during 
the summer, might have disposed of about 
2000 trout, averaging a little over one pound 
each, which would have produced about £103. 
And now, in conclusion, let us glance at the 
expenses of our farm. Let us suppose the 
construction cost £16; the hatching-boxes. 



Trmt 149 

with fittings, £6 ; and wages for portions of 
three years' feeding, £70 ; this will give £91 
as the total outlay. 

We will assume, therefore, that something 
about the sum of £100 has been sunk on this 
petty water property; that the annual expenses 
are £50; and that its yearly production equals 
£100. Even at this rate, the farm would 
yield a clear annual interest of 60 per cent 
on the outlay. But are we warranted in 
believing this to be the maximum of its pro- 
duce ? We think not; nay, we are confident it 
could be raised to a higher figure — ^for the 
number taken from each pond, about five, was 
very insignificant in comparison to what they 
might easily have spared. How trout, grayling, 
and other fresh-water fish, can be increased 
both in size and number by mere preservation, 
many streams in Wiltshire, Hampshire, 
Shropshire, and other English counties, prove. 
But preservation is only one amongst the 
ninety-nine points of good water-husbandry. 
If the science was applied in its entirety, what 
might not reasonably be expected from it ? 



150 Practical Water-Farming. 

Surely these things are worthy the attention 
of our landed gentry. It needs but some one, 
systematically and steadily, to cultivate a farm 
such as we have spoken of, to demonstrate 
the truth of what has been advanced. 

Who will lead the way ? 



CHAPTER XV. 

POND FISHES. 

In the present chapter we propose to speak 
of carp and tench, fish which, though thriving 
well in rivers of moderate current, are capable 
of being domesticated and cultivated with 
advantage in pieces of artificial water. 

The genus Cyprinus, as now restricted by 
modem systemists, contains the common 
carp and allied species, which are distinguish- 
ed from those of kindred genera, by a small 
mouth devoid of teeth, scales of a large size, 
and the second rays of the dorsal and anal fin, 
large, bony, and more or less serrated. The 
common carp {Cyprinus carpio) was intro- 
duced into this country probably between the 
14th and 15th centuries, but neither the date 
nor the country from which it was originally 
imported can be accurately determined. In 



152 Practical Water-Farming. 

Jenyn'sMantialof British Vertdyrate Animals, 
it is said to have been originally acclimatised 
from the central portions of Europe, and 
since it still thrives better in those districts 
than elsewhere, the statement is probably 
correct. At present it is found over the 
greater part of Europe, and may be considered 
a citizen of the world; in many places its 
growth is much attended to for the purposes 
of traffic. 

When in a state of nature, the food of the 
carp consists almost entirely of vegetable 
substances, which are masticated by means of 
the flat teeth situated on the palate. These 
are strictly analagous to the molars of our 
ruminant animals, and are employed to bruise 
and mash up the aquatic vegetables on which 
it principally depends for subsistence. As 
regards the size and weight to which this fish 
can attain, we extract a few lines from Mr. 
Yarrell's valuable work. " Though not very 
rapid in growth," says this author, "carp 
usually attain 3 pounds weight by their sixth 
year, and 6 pounds weight by their ninth 



Pond Fishes. 163 

year." The largest we can refer to are 
noticed in Daniel's Bwral Sports. Mr. Lad- 
broke, from his park at Gratton, presented 
Lord Egremont with a brace that weighed 35 
pounds, in order to ascertain whether Surrey 
could not vie with Sussex in the production 
of carp. In 1793, when a large piece of 
water at Stonehead was fished, 2000 carp of 
large size were taken, and amongst these was 
one of the following dimensions — ^length 30 
inches, breadth 22 inches, weight 18 pounds. 
At Weston Hall, in Staffordshire, the paint- 
ing of a carp can still be seen, which weighed 
19^ pounds. This handsome fish is in season 
for the table from October to April, a period 
when most other fresh- water fish are no longer 
in a condition for food. 

From what has been already said, several 
points appear to be established; first, that 
the carp attains a great weight in confinement ; 
secondly, that artificial feeding, though always 
advisable, is not a necessity ; thirdly, that it 
has long been domesticated in Europe, and 
prepared like any other farm-stock for market ; 



154 Practical Water-Farming. 

and lastly, that it is not only inherently 
good for food, but doubly valuable as being 
in the highest condition when most of our 
other English fresh-water fish are out of 
season. 

A general statement has been made, that 
the carp has long been domesticated in 
Europe; in a practical treatise like the present, 
it is desirable to be a little more definite on 
this point. Formerly there were, and 
doubtless at the present day are, large ponds 
in Prussia, Saxony, Bohemia, Mecklenburgh, 
and Holstein, employed solely for the rearing 
of carp ; which we are told " were brought to 
market with as much regularity as if they had 
been so much fruit or Tegetables," and as this 
branch of commerce has been long established, 
we can hardly hesitate to accept its continu- 
ance, as evidence of its success. Passing 
from the Continent to England, we have 
the authority of an eminent fish-salesman for 
stating, ''that almost any quantity of carp 
could be disposed of amongst the Jews and 
Catholics of London alone, and that could a 



Pond Fishes. 155 

regular supply be obtained^ an unlimited 
amount might be sold for 6d. a pound." 

Haying thus spoken of the carp, we will 
now turn to the tench, which, whether con- 
sidered naturally or scientifically, is closely 
allied to it; being, in fact, the Cyprinus tinea 
of Linnseus. This fish, therefore, belongs to 
the carp fetmily, and is separated from it 
generically on account of the size of the scales 
with which the body is covered, as well as by 
the small antero-posterior extent of the dorsal 
and anal fins, both of which are, moreover, 
destitute of the anterior bony spine. 

The tench inhabits most of the lakes 
throughout Europe, and in this country is 
found in many of our sluggish rivers. There 
appears to be a doubt whether, like the carp, 
its origin is not foreign, and whether the 
streams that now contain this fish are not 
indebted for its presence to an accidental 
escape from neighbouring ponds. Cuvier 
observes that the tench inhabits stagnant 
waters by preference, and Mr. Yarrell re- 
marks, ''that rivers being an unnatural 



166 Practical Water-Farming. 

habitat for the fish^ will account for their 
being less prolific in such situations," We 
are by no means disposed, however, to admit 
the truth of this statement, inasmuch as we 
are acquainted with several small and slug- 
gish streams in the west of England in which 
this fish not only abounds, but attains con- 
siderable size. The tenacity of life exhibited 
by the tench is very remarkable ; a peculiarity 
which must give it additional importance in 
the eyes of the pisciculturist Recent experi- 
ments have shown that it is able to breathe 
when the quantity of oxygen is^ reduced to a 
5000th part of the bulk of the water it inhabits, 
ordinary rivers generally containing 1 per 
cent of this gas. like the carp, the tench is 
a vegetarian, though it by no means objects 
to the larvsB of insects or small worms. It 
spawns about the middle of June, and deposits 
its ova on weeds. Each of the fish which we 
have mentioned is remarkably prolific ; and it 
stands on record that no fewer than 700,000 
eggs have been found in a carp weighing 10 
pounds. 



Pmd Fishes. 167 

Having thus spoken of the inhabitants^ we 
must devote the remainder of the article to 
the consideration of their artificial residence. 
The constniction^ as well as the management 
of ponds for the rearing of fish, was formerly 
much better understood in this country than 
at present ; in fact, during the last hundred 
years they have fallen ahnost entirely out of 
use. It is necessary, therefore, to enter some- 
what into detail as to their formation. A 
number of small ponds are far better cal- 
culated to ensure successful cultivation than 
two or three larger ones, containing the same 
area, as cleanliness is an element essential to 
success. This can only be accomplished by 
letting the water off about every sixth year, 
and exposing the bottom to the action of the 
weather, as well as to such mechanical agency 
as may be necessary to remove the mud, 
which is apt to accumulate in such places. 
A suitable site being chosen — ^the higher, 
more open, and more exposed, the better — 
a chain of ponds should be made, connected 
by water-courses, but separated by flood-gates. 



158 Practical Water-Farming, 

Each of these sheets of water should not^ in 
our opinion^ exceed 80 yards in length, 30 in 
breadth, and 6 feet in depth. Such an excava- 
tion, at 9d. per cubic yard, would cost about 
£180. It by no means follows, however, that 
even this outlay is necessary, as natural de- 
pressions in the ground — old marl or gravel 
pits, and such like — could be made to answer 
the purpose equally well, at a price infinitely 
less for the same area. Every estate contains 
more or less poor land, and it will frequently 
happen that such copiparatively valueless 
property is well suited for the purpose in 
hand. When the pools and connecting canals 
have been cut, and the flash-boards erected, 
the bottom must be suitably finished, and 
this is best done by roughly paving the ex- 
cavated surface with flat stones, over which 
a layer of gravel should be thrown. A few 
heavy blocks must be placed on the bottom, 
and if two or three strong iron crooks are in- 
serted in ea,ch, poaching willbe an impossibility, 
and the stock we are about to introduce will 
be safe from aggression. 



Pond Fishes. 169 

In considering the eligibility of any par- 
ticular site for the formation of ponds^ the 
proximity of a small stream as a feeder to the 
water-farm, is of course implied. We must 
now suppose that everything is ready for the 
introduction of the stock — 6 or 7 brace of 
good-sized carp, say of 4 to 5 pounds each ; 
as many tench, of 1 J pound each, and a few 
dozen brace of fish of the former season, will 
be amply sufficient for one pond. Operations 
having arrived at this point, the pisciculturist 
must be content to wait five years for his first 
harvest. It is not, however, implied that his 
work is over, for all stock of what kind soever, 
whether terrestrial or aquatic, will thrive in 
proportion to the amount and suitability of 
the food given to them. Dog-biscuits, soaked 
in water or skimmed milk, and mixed with 
coarse flour, grains, chopped garden-refuse, 
cold boiled potatoes, bran, and such Uke, 
worked together into a sort of paste, and then 
subdivided into small pellets, wiU answer ad- 
mirably for the purpose, and would not occupy 
the gamekeeper or gardener one hour a-day in 
their preparation and distribution. 



160 Practical Water-Farming. 

In the autumn of the fifth year, the first 
harvest may be reaped^ and as each of the 
ponds we have described might, with the aid 
of feeding, conveniently contain 1000 fish, 
such harvest would, at a moderate calculation, 
yield 250 fish averaging 4 pounds each. This 
quantity, at 6d. per pound, would give the 
proprietor £25 for a single pond ; and if we 
suppose the chain to consist of six, they will 
collectively produce an income of £150 per 
annum, an amount inmieasurably greater than 
a similar surface of poor land could by any 
possibility be made to yield, if employed in , 
any other way. 

It need hardly be pointed out that such 
ponds may be multiplied ad infinitv/m, or that 
the income to be derived from them wiQ be 
in proportion to the extent of water. Enough 
has been said to show that there is a ready 
market for as much of this class of food as is 
likely to be produced for many years to come, 
and that pond-farming wiQ hereafter take 
rank amongst our profitable investments. 

A few days since, whilst on a visit to a friend 



Pond Fishes. 161 

in Shropshire, conversation turned on pond 
fishes, when our host came out in great and 
unexpected force. He was a cultivator and 
gastronomic admirer of tench, and gave me 
many interesting details respecting his mode 
of management, one or two of which I shall 
borrow for the benefit of the reader. My friend 
had two small keeping-ponds into which, when 
the autumn arrived, he placed as many fish as 
he wanted, being carefiil to separate the males 
from the females. On this inhuman arrange- 
ment he laid great stress. With respect to 
their rate of growth (a very important 
question) he assured me that tench of half-a- 
pound each, deposited by him one autumn, 
ordinarily attained a weight of 1| pound 
by the following season. He did not 
feed his fish; had he done so, his success 
would have been greater. My friend's 
favourites had yet to be prepared for the 
cook. The method employed in their purifi- 
cation was as follows : — ^A certain niunber 
being taken from the pond were placed in a 
stone trough, through which a strong stream 

M 



162 Practical Water-Farming. 

of spring-water flowed. Here they were kept 
for three or four daysandwere then considered 
" excellent meat." Treated in this way, he 
assured me the flesh was as good, and yery 
similar to that of the turbot. 



CHAPTER XVI. 

PIKE AND PERCH. 

In the previous chapter^ carp and tench^ 
the most harmless of fishes^ have been asso- 
ciated. In the present^ pike and perch^ the 
most quarrelsome and aggressiye^ may^ for 
practical purposes^ with equal propriety be 
grouped together. 

The Esox lucius, or common pike, 
is found in nearly all the fresh waters of 
Europe ; it occurs also in the great Lakes of 
North America, where, however, two other 
species are met with. It is probably in- 
digenous in Britain, though generally supposed 
to have been introduced during the reign of 
Heniy VIII. 

Endowed with a prodigious appetite, the 
pike exhibits extraordinary rapidity of growth, 
its increase of weight being stated by the 



164 Practical Water-Farming. 

highest authorities to be at the rate of 4 
pounds a-year. Innumerable anecdotes have 
been related r^arding the voracity of this 
fish. Mr. Jesse^ in one of his works^ says 
" that a pike of 8 pounds has been known to 
eat 100 gudgeons in three weeks;" and Mr. 
Stoddart tells us that in the Teviot^ a tributary 
of the Tweedy this fish exhibits so faJbol a 
partiality for the salmon fiy^ that " in a stretch 
of water 10 miles long, where there is good 
feeding, there will be at least 1000 pike, and 
that during a period of 60 days, they will 
consume a quarter of a million of smolts." 

In the dawn of domestic agriculture, beasts 
of prey ravaged our flocks and were exter- 
minated. It is much to be r^retted that 
"the firesh-water wolf" is not more syste- 
matically hunted in our salmon-stieams, and 
as £ur as possible destroyed. When the fiy 
have reached the smolt state, their dangers 
are comparatively over, about a fourth or fifth 
of the entire number returning safely to the 
rivers. Fifky thousand grilse destroyed in six 
weeks by one hostile race ! what outlay would 



Pike and Perch. 166 

not have provedalmost immediately remmiera- 
tive to the lessee of a salmon-fann^ if employed 
for the purpose of keeping down such de- 
stractive foes ? 

The flavour of fish, like that of terrestrial 
animals, depends largely on the quality and 
quantity of its food, and from the various 
stories that have from time to time been 
related regarding the exceptional diet of the 
pike, some persons entertain a prejudice 
against its use. This, like many other pre- 
judices, fades before experience, for the fact 
is, that the pike, as an article of food, is equal 
to any of our fresh- water fish, salmon, trout, 
and grayling, excepted. It is white, firm, 
and flaky, and when fried, or stufied and 
roasted, is, as old Isaac says, a dish fit only 
"for anglers and honest men." 

Without absolutely accepting the extra- 
ordinary rate of growth given above, it is at least 
certain that no native of our English waters 
increases with the same rapidity, and this, to 
the pisciculturist is no mean recommendation^ 
Each year introduces into our best markets 



166 Practical Water-Farming. 

some fish not previously held in high estima- 
tion for the table^ and increasing necessity 
will probably annually add to the list^ in 
which case we may reasonably expect the pike' 
to claim a larger share of public attention. 

The fact is, we can no longer afford to be 
nice. How to increase the supply of food is 
one of the most prominent and important 
questions of the day. On its solution does 
not hinge merely "the bone and sinew of 
the country ; " considerations far higher are 
involved in it. The wealthy, as a body, little 
know how bitter a thing is poverty, with its 
daily struggles — so necessary — yet so vain 
to make both ends meet ; but men must be 
fed, pale half-famished children cannot be 
allowed to die of semi-starvation ; and so it 
comes to pass, that our poor spend their lives 
in dwellings a thousand times more injurious, 
as to the effects produced on soul and body, 
than those which exist in the kraal of the 
CaflBr, or the wigwam of the red man. 
Hunger and rags are not eloquent preachers 
of law and gospel, and want is a terrible 



Pike and Perch 167 

tempter. We send missionaries "over sea and 
land to make one proselyte." How many 
might be made at home could the masses 
be more cheaply fed ? At the present high 
price of food^ what sum can remain at the 
week's end for decent clothing or wholesome 
tenements ? little^ indeed ! 

We are not so Utopian as to imagine 
capitalists will embark in hopeless schemes^ 
merely from philanthropic motives; invest- 
ments must show a reasonable prospect of 
remuneration. But fish-farming offers some- 
thing more — ^the almost certainty of success : 
and beyond this will confer on our poor a 
moral and social benefit^ the extent of which 
cannot be easily overrated. This^ however^ is 
a digression^ and we must paas from ethics to 
business. 

Having already spoken briefly of the size 
and excellence of the pike, of its quick growth 
and applicability for pond life, we will, before 
entering into detail on its cultivation, say a 
few words about the perch. This fish, pro- 
bably more in favour for the table, is equally 



168 Practical Water-Farming. 

hardy and equally adapted for artificial pieces 
of water. Without discussing the question 
of acclimatisation^ we may mention that the 
Perca lates, a genus closely allied to the 
common perch, is well worth the attention of 
pisciculturists, as the members of this sub- 
genus are of large size and excellent quality. 
Though at present chiefly found in the rivers 
of the warmer parts of the old world, there 
seems little reason to doubt they would thrive 
in our own temperate climate; and here it 
may not be out of place to remark also, that 
the black bass, a native of Lake Huron, 
and one of the best-flavoured fishes in the 
world, is a perch known to naturalists under 
the title of Perca huro. 

In the days when ancient Rome ex- 
changed conquest for luxury, the perch was 
assiduously cultivated for the table, and was 
thought to be equal to the mullet in flavour. 
Tastes are proverbially said to differ, but a 
friend* (who may be considered an unexcep- 
tionable authority) declares them equal in 
* H. Cholmondeley Pennell, Esq. 



Pike and Perch. 169 

excellence to the whiting, as indeed in our 
opinion they are. Perch taken from rivers 
are thought to be superior to those whose 
lives have been passed in ponds. But this is 
an accident, not a necessity, and results from 
the neglected condition of our meres, where 
mud has been allowed to collect to a degree 
quite incompatible with the perfection of 
animal life. These fish do not usually attain 
any great size, the largest on record being 
one taken in the Serpentine, which weighed 
9 pounds. Perch of 3 or 4 pounds are by 
no means rare, and 1 pound is a common 
weight. 

In the lakes of Westmeath, as in Dere- 
veragh and Lough Ouel, for example, this fish 
thrives admirably, attaining a size of 4 or 
5 pounds, and possessing a flavour and firm- 
ness not easily surpassed. This has been 
mentioned, to prove how perfectly the perch 
can thrive without access to running water. 
When speaking of the cultivation of carp and 
tench, a chain of small ponds was recom- 
mended in preference to two or three sheets 



Ih. 



170 Practical Water-Farming. 

of water of their united extent, but this does 
not hold good in the case of pike and perch, 
which, being predatory animals, require 
greater space. We should therefore advise 
a series of ponds to be constructed of about 
half-an-acre each : these must be well 
puddled with clay, coated with gravel, and 
defended by rocks and stumps of trees from 
the attacks of poachers. The necessity which 
exists for coating the bottom with clay, will 
necessarily restrict the formation of these 
pieces of water to such districts as produce 
this material, since its carriage would prove 
so costly as to neutralise all reasonable hope 
of profit. A suitable site having been found 
on poor land, the first step to be taken is to 
provide good and sufficient food for our 
stock, for without this their growth will be 
slow and their quality bad. No fish thrives 
better in confinement, or breeds more rapidly 
than the roach ; and as it happens to be a 
great £Eivourite both with perch and pike, it 
will probably answer better than any other 
that ean be introduced. 



Pike and Perch. 171 

It has been already stated that the growth 
of the pike is wonderfully rapid : the advan- 
tage of this is obvious^ as it enables the 
proprietor of the £eirm to send his produce to 
market at the expiration of the first year. 
Custom exercises a great influence on gastro- 
nomy: men eat and value what they see 
others eat and value. Hitherto the food of 
which we are speaking has been rarely found 
in our markets^ except in a few districts^ and 
even in these the supply is extremely irregular. 
Our own neighbourhood abounds with coarse 
fish^ such as roach^ dace^ and chub^ which 
are anxiously sought for and eagerly purchased 
by the poorer classes, at threep^ce per pound; 
and, in fact, during the summer and autumn 
constitute one of their principal luxuries. If 
fish of this inferior quality finds a ready sale, 
we may reasonably infer that animals so ex- 
cellent as those which form the subject of this 
chapter, would obtain a still better market. 

All water-farms such as we are now con- 
sidering, should consist of a chain of ponds, 
to enable the proprietor not only to exass^^b. 



172 Practical Water-Farming. 

the condition of his stocky but to select the 
best fish for market^ and clean the bottom 
once in eight or ten years. We have already 
advised that these ponds should be half-an- 
acre each^ and a series of six would therefore 
represent a space of three acres. 

It is by no means necessary that an area so 
large should be excavated. In many places 
the formation of the ground is so favourable, 
that embankments are alone needed to make 
admirable ponds. Mill-dams are always 
available; railway excavations might be 
profitably employed, and meres and pools, 
now probably nearly useless, might be 
cleaned, enlarged, and improved. 

It must be remembered, however, that the 
outlay on terrestrial farms annually repre- 
sents a large sum, whilst our water en- 
closures cost little to maintain, and once 
made are made for ever. 

Each pond such as we have described, 
might easily yield 300 pike annually, ave- 
raging 4 pounds, which at sixpence per pound 
would produce £30. It might also ad- 



Pike and Perch. 17 S 

vantageously spare 600 brace of perch which, 
if amounting only to six hundredweight, 
would be worth £16 : 168. ; and £46 : 168. may 
be considered no mean annual interest on a 
capital comparatively small. But besides 
these fish, eels of necessity would be produced, 
and as these sell well, we are entitled to 
assume they would raise the income derivable 
from each pool at least to £50, which would 
give for three acres of poor land receipts to 
the amount of £300 per annum. 

Such statements are patent, nor can it be 
long before men acknowledge their truth by 
reducing what may now be considered theory, 
to the test of practice. 



CHAPTER XVII. 

EELS. 

Three, if not four, species of the genus 
AnguiUa aie found in this countiy— namely, 
the shaip-nosed eel, the broad-nosed eel, and 
the snig. 

The shaip-nosed species may be distin- 
guished, as Yanell tells us,by a comparatiyely 
nanrow munle and compressed head, as well 
as by its dark oliTe-green ba«^ and silTeiy 
belly; the colouring, howeyer, Taries according 
to the nature c^ the water in which the 
animal Utcs. This rule, it may be obserred, 
holdsgood with respect to all fishes; those in 
clear streams bdng bri^t, whilst those found 
in muddy wateis are pale or dusky. 

The sUrer eel is common in riTers and 
lakes throughout the countiy, and is by &r 
the most TaluaUe c^ the qp^des known in 



Eels. 175 

Great Britain. Like the salmon its habits are 
migratory^ though the causes that regulate 
such migrations are entirely different. 

The eel is supposed to dislike cold^ and in 
the autumn spates — ^under cover of the night 
— ^passes down the riyers to gain the warmer 
brackish water^ where it spends the winter 
and deposits its ova. In springy the fiy may 
be seen working their way against the current 
with marvellous patience^ and in extraordinary 
numbers ; scaling rocks^ and struggling 
through rapids^ that might well be deemed 
barriers to their further progress. 

Without entering farther into the natural 
history of this interesting animal^ we will 
proceed to regard him fix)m a commercial 
point of view, and speak very briefly of the 
principal sources from which our markets are 
at present supplied ; see what is to be learned 
from Comacchio ; glance at the capabilities of 
our own rivers ; and lastly, say a few words on 
one or two obvious means whereby the quan- 
tity annually taken might be increased. 

The London markets, though lax^e.1^ 



176 Practical Water-Farming. 

supplied from Holland^ receive^ at certain 
periods of the year^ a considerable number 
of eels from the midland and western 
counties of England; such districts being 
able to fturnish infinitely more, if the riyers 
were properly prepared for the reception of 
the fry, and fturnished with such cheap 
appliances as might be necessaiy to intercept 
the adults in their passage towards the sea 
during the autumn floods. Ireland and 
Scotland are better adapted by nature than 
either England or the Low Countries for eel- 
ouItiTation, and, were it not for die mis- 
chieTous prejudices which exist in those 
countries, mj^t supply with ease the existii^ 
demand. 

AUkough liafy does not send any of these 
fish to British ports, the eel-&nns in the 
Fipal States are suffidoitly instructiTe to 
dauu our attenticii fot a few minutesy and 
are interesting firooa their antiqpoitT, tlie 
peifectk<i of their mam^aaeiit^ and tlieir 
Tahie« 

Hitikefto oar ide«s ef eohiimtioA Inre 



Eels. 177 

been limited — ^in these Islands at least — ^to 
agricultural operations^ the nomenclature of 
which has only recently been applied to the 
infant science of aqueculture. But long ago 
it appeared so natural to the people of 
Comacchio to consider their yarious water- 
enclosures as farms, that they haye from a 
yery early period spoken of them *' as fields." 
Of these there are about 400, the most 
yaluable belonging to the Papal States, the 
remainder being in priyate hands. 

With the connnencement of autumn, the 
migratory instinct of the eels begins to be 
fiilly deyeloped, and at this time the haryest 
is ready for the gathering. The mode in 
which it is collected is eminently simple. At 
either end of each pond are flood-gates. 
Aboye the one designed to carry oflf the sur- 
plus water, a series of long funnel-shaped 
enclosures are erected, at the apices of 
which are placed smaller chambers. As 
soon as the salt water is introduced by 
the upper sluice, the fish prepare for their 
migration, the fences being so arranged thajt 



178 Practical Water-Farming. 

their course necessarily conducts them to the 
base of the enclosures before mentioned, 
along which they pass in the direction of the 
current; resolute to reach the sea, they 
hurry down the narrowing passage, and at 
length find themselves lodged in the trap 
from whence there is neither return nor 
escape, and in which they are preserved alive 
till required for market. This plan of 
capture, as will presently be shown, is sub- 
stantially the same as that employed in the 
Irish rivers. 

One of the most interesting objects in 
Comacchio is the great kitchen where the 
fish are prepared, one of the peculiarities of 
the place being, that a large portion of the 
eels are cooked before they are sent to 
market. If the reader will imagine an 
extensive building in which are arranged a 
series of grates larger than those at Christ- 
church, Trinity, or the Dublin University, 
with mighty frying-pans suspended above, 
and rows of spits arranged in front of each, 
he will gain a tolerable idea of the kitchen at 



Eels. 179 

Comacchio. When the eels are fried to per- 
fection, or roasted to a turn, they are placed 
in baskets to drain and cool — are subsequently 
packed in barrels of yarious sizes, when a 
mixture of vinegar and salt is added. Pre- 
vious to exportation, the barrels are branded 
to show the size and quality of the contents. 
We can well imagine one of these fish would 
form no mean addition to our breakfast-tables. 
Besides these methods of preservation, 
the eels are salted like cod, or dried like 
Finnan haddock, and yet when all this has 
been done, a barrel weighing 150 pounds 
can be purchased for little more than 97 
francs, or about threepence per pound. The 
value of this fishery is great. Towards the 
end of the 16th century the annual income, 
derived from eel-breeding in the lagoons, 
amounted nearly to £12,000. No recent 
statistics have been made public, but there is 
eveiy reason to believe that the sum has not 
diminished. In the year 1580, £12,000 was 
an amount &r different from that expressed 
by a similar sum at the present tiissNa^^scA.'^ 



180 Practical Water-Farming. 

we consider the altered yaJue of money, we 
may readily imagine the reyenue deriyed from 
the Italian fisheries must now realise some- 
thmg like £50,000 or £60,000 per annum. 

Haying now seen how the eel is caught, 
cooked, and sold at Comaechio, we will next 
inquire into the productiyeness of our own 
riyers. The eel-fisheries in Ireland may 
serye to throw some light on this point. The 
riyer Bann, separating the counties of Antrim 
and Londonderry, afibrds an instance of the 
annual income deriyable from the capture of 
this fish. The stream in question is diyided 
by Lough Neagh into the upper and lower 
Bann, the former being one of the feeders, 
and the latter the only channel through 
which this mighty lake discharges its surplus 
waters into the sea. At yarious points in the 
course of the riyers which feed the Lough^ 
eel-weirs are placed, the annual yalue of 
which is known to few except the owners and 
lessees. We may infer, howeyer, that they 
take a fan* proportion of the fish reared in 
their seyeral waters. Between the lake and 



Eels. 181 

Coleraine^ the autumnal harvest of eels is said^ 
on Tery good authority, to be worth consider- 
ably above £2000; and there is little doubt 
that the upper waters collectively produce a 
larger sum. Great as this income appears to 
be, it is nothing to what this chain of lake 
and rivers would yield, if properly cultivated 
and carefully fished. Here and there, by the 
side of some fall or rapid, a loose rope of 
straw is placed to enable the ascending firy 
to overcome difficulties otherwise insurmount- 
able, and this forms the Alpha and Omega of 
the cultivation bestowed on this valuable 
property. Then, again, in most of the Irish 
eel-weirs with which I am familiar, there is 
usually something wrong. A portion of the 
lines of wattling, which converge towards the 
apex, may be imperfect ; the flood may come 
down an hour or two sooner than was 
expected ; or more frequently, " the cockle " 
or long funnel-shaped net — employed to 
close the only outlet — ogives way from age or 
infiLrmity, just when it should not« From 
either or all these causes combined, the eel- 



182 Practical Water-Farming. 

fisheries^ at least on the generality of Irish 
waters^ are infinitely less productive than 
they ought to be. Under these disadvantages, 
however, — ^and.we do not suppose the Bann 
exempt from the common lot — ^we have seen 
that the annual income is between £4000 
and £5000; what it might easily become, 
would involve a very different arrangement of 
figures. It has been stated in an earlier part 
of this chapter that eels " dislike cold ;" this 
may perhaps be true, but is certainly not 
the cause of their annual migrations, which 
we believe is solely referable to the instinct 
that leads them to spawn either in salt or 
brackish water. In the Field of Nov. 23, 
IS67, there is an interesting article which we 
make no apology for quoting, since it men- 
tions the eel-fisheries on the Bann, and also 
touches on many important points connected 
with the subject : — 

" I remember on one occasion 40 tons of 
eels having been taken in one night in the 
river Bann in the north of Ireland, and I 
suppose as many more escaped, for they 



Eels. 183 

came down in such numbers that nearly all 
the nets on the eel weirs-were burst. This 
is one of the finest salmon rivers in Ireland, 
and it is rather remarkable that in most of 
the fine salmon rivers in Ireland, very 
valuable eel-fisheries exist, which would, to a 
certain extent, prove that the eel is not so 
injurious to the salmon as some appear to 
imagine. Valuable eel-fisheries exist on the 
Shannon, the Bann, the Ballyshannon,* and 
other rivers, and these are all first-class 
salmon rivers. The Ballyshannon, with the 
right of netting in only a few miles of tide- 
way, sold the other day for £45,000. The 
eel-fisheries are, by means of V weirs in the 
fresh water, only carried on at night. All this 
may be very well known to most of your read- 
ers ; to some, however, it may be interesting. 
The breeding of eels remains the great mystery 
to be solved ; not, I think, their torpidity." 

Ireland is a land of lakes and streams. 
Scarcely a square mile of the country but has 

* The river which flows through the town of Bally- 
shannon is called the '*Eme.'* 



184 Practical Water-Farming. 

connection with some water communicating 
with the sea ; and whereyer such water exists, 
there the silver eel is to be found. As an 
instance of the fertility eyen of the smallest 
streams, it may be stated, that close to a 
fishing-lodge belonging to the writer, in the 
county of Antrim, there is a little brook or 
drain whose extreme length, from a neighbour- 
ing bog to the sea, is less than half-a-mile. 
In the early autunm freshes we haye often 
placed a suitable net across it, and taken a 
couple of bushels of fine fish in the short 
interyal between sunset and darkness. Few 
fish afford more nutrition than the eel — ^none 
could be obtained more cheaply, or in 
greater abundance ; whilst the price at which 
they are sold, proves the estimation in which 
they are held. Although it is hardly possible 
to offer any satisfactory estimate of the 
collective productiveness of Scotland and 
Ireland, it may be stated, without fear of 
contradiction, that they are capable of 
yielding a supply of eels ftilly equal to any 
demand likely to be made on them. 



Eeh. 185 

Nor does the production of so great a mass 
of excellent animal food pre-suppose a large 
expenditure of capital. On the contrary, the 
character and habits of the fish render pre- 
servation almost unnecessaiy, and its capture 
easy. A few straw ropes, placed at the sides 
of difficult falls and strong rapids, are suffi- 
cient to enable the fiy to spread oyer all the 
tributaries ; whilst well-constructed lines of 
wattling, and a few small but stout fimnel- 
shaped nets, suffice to gather the grist which 
the autumn spates bring to the mill. 

We are well aware that the eel is said not 
to be a fayourite food with the great body of 
our countrymen. This is referable to a yariety 
of causes, amongst which, irregular supply, — 
bad quality when the article happens to be 
cheap, and high prices when good, probably 
hold prominent positions. New articles of 
food, however, are constantly finding their way 
into our markets, so we may reasonably hope 
that our old friend the eel will float on the 
current of public favour, and take rank with 
the best. 



CHAPTER XTIII. 

OTSTESS A2a> XrSSELSL 

CAUSBS WHICH LED TO THE DECXESCK 

OF OTB OPEX OTSTEB-BED6 PC^UC 

AriEMiO Jy IS ABi>rSED MUTATE 

ESTEK^UaC STEPS IX^ AXD IS AIDED 
BT I.EftlSI.ATIYE EXACTXESTS. 

The ottjochr of mt mdets dodbdes ir- 
HKDiber dial pinfiul time wim Ae o^elcr 
pleaded over snpp^^ and was with wamj of 
«s qvile Ann «b 4i nowMi^ droppiB^ in 
afanaet as a Ettttnr of couse^ to hmdieoa or 
^Smmst. Afae^Aalk^odhibesuisoeloeea 
coaqpwm kss gcowm afanogt a stnngec II 
K Eiyvst. however, to bbme u dhsemt : 
cqpeaaDr oae who kK leeerred : 
wToags at oar hands^ — we have safeed Sir 
our mfideeds: have seen de error of ov 
wajvs: haie lepeuted^ and are mow aaxm^hr 



Oysters and Mussels. 187 

seeking reconciliation in a hearty^ liberal^ and 
constitutional manner; may we not confi- 
dently predict that we shall soon welcome 
him — ^who has been so long an absentee — 
once more to our hearths and homes ? 

Though old as Imperial Rome^ oyster- 
culture^ in these kingdoms at leasts may be 
called a new art ; since it flourishes under new 
laws, is watched over by a body of men re- 
cently appointed to the ofl&ce, stretches 
forward with higher aims, and day by day 
gains larger proportions. Science lends it 
her aid, wealth gives it power, and the public 
regard it with interest ; in a word, it is wanted, 
and will achieve success. 

In the mouth of the Thames and its 
tributaries, and in a few other estuaries, 
oyster-pares — ^more or less artificial — existed, 
where the fish were brought from natural 
beds to fatten on a more congenial soil. But 
this is widely difierent from the art of to-day, 
which aims at. nothing less than filling our 
foreshores with broods of their own produc- 
ing; improving the stock on principles de- 



188 Practical Water-Farming. 

duced from a knowledge of the habits and 
instincts of the animal ; and perhaps at no 
distant date^ to the restoration of our natural 
but exhausted ocean-beds^ from the abund- 
ance it has created. 

In treating this subject^ we shall offer a 
slight abstract of the acts of 1866 and 1867 ; 
glance at the Board of Trade regulations^ and 
see what is to be gathered from the first 
report of their Commissioner. We shall say 
a few words on the natural history of the 
oyster ; notice the situation and extent of the 
new pares ; endeayour to ascertain their 
prospects ; and, in conclusion, lay before the 
reader the principles on which the cultiyation 
of this yaluable biyalye is at present carried 
on. The causes which so nearly produced 
the total ruin of our natural oyster-beds are 
easily explained ; nor are they uninstructive, 
since the reckless mismanagement which 
proyed so fatal to one branch of our fisheries 
must, if continued, be equally injurious to all 
others. 

Till within the last few years, the increasing 



Oysters and MiLSsels. 189 

scarcity of the oyster was balanced by the 
greater exertions made for its capture, and 
supply made a spasmodic attempt to keep 
pace with the demand. This process, however, 
could not long continue ; indeed, when once 
the existing stock on the beds was nearly 
dredged out, every fresh effort only made the 
final exhaustion more inevitable and complete. 
We were creating a fictitious income, by 
spending interest and capital together. As 
might naturally have been expected^ this 
suicidal policy soon brought the fisheries to 
the brink of actual beggary, and for the 
great mass of consumers the oyster had prac- 
tically ceased to exist; then it was gravely 
asserted that for years there had been no 
spat; whereas the truth is, the stock of 
breeding oysters had been so greatly reduced, 
that anything like a successful breeding 
season was impossible. 

Things had thus come to the worst, and 
according to the popular proverb, might be 
expected to mend. The exigency of the case 
roused public attention ; the press took \i^ 



190 Practical Water-Farming. 

the question; theory produced practice, 
which in return gradually established the 
truth or exposed the errors of new doctrines. 
The first step was made by Mr. Cholmondeley 
Pennell, the present Inspecter of Oyster 
Fisheries, and Mr. Frank Buckland, who 
obtained firom parliament, in 1864, the grant 
of a portion of the flats off Heme Bay, for 
the purpose of ostreaculture. Several other 
companies followed this initiatiye, and event- 
ually the general importance of making public 
grants to private companies was recognised 
by Government and by Parliament, who 
passed a bill m 1866, entitled "The Oyster 
and Mussel Fisheries Act," for facilitating and 
systematising fishery-grants on the principle 
above indicated. Meanwhile, several com- 
panies and individuals had commenced, vnth 
more or less success, the artificial cultivation 
of the oyster as followed at L'ile de Rhe 
and Arcachon. As The Oyster and Mussel 
Fisheries Act must be considered the basis of 
modem English oyster legislation, and is 
destined henceforth probably to play an all- 



Oysters and Mussels. 191 

important part in the resuscitation of our 
exhausted fisheries, it may not be out of 
place to offer a brief abstract of its pro- 
visions. 

29 & 30 Vict. cap. 85, empowers the 
Board of Trade to allot, with a few excep- 
tions, any portions of the shore and bed of 
the sea, of estuaries and tidal rivers, in Eng- 
land and Scotland, for the establishment or 
improvement, and for the maintenance and 
regulation, of oyster and mussel fisheries, to 
any person, persons, company, or body, de- 
sirous of obtaining such an order. If, o^ 
consideration of the memorial, the Board of 
Trade think fit to move in the case, the ap- 
plicant must give such notice to all parties 
interested as the Board shall think fit. The 
Act next proceeds to determine how conflict- 
ing claims between the promoters and parties 
asserting opposite interests shall be dealt 
with. " The inspector shall proceed to make 
an inquiry concerning the subject-matter of 
the proposed order, and for that purpose to 
hold a sitting, or sittings, in some convenient 



192 Practical Water-Farming. 

place^ in the neighbourhood of the portion of 
the sea-shore to which the proposed order 
relates, and thereat to take and receive any 
evidence and information offered, and hear 
and inquire into any objections or representa- 
tions made respecting the proposed order, 
with power from time to time to adjourn any 
sitting ; and the inspector may take evidence 
on oath or otherwise, as he thinks expedient, 
and may administer an oath, or take any affi- 
davit or declaration for the purpose of the 
inquiiy, and if any person wilfully gives false 
evidence in any examination, on oath, in any 
such inquiry, or in an affidavit, to be used in 
any such inquiry, he shall be deemed guilty 
of pequry." 

After the Act has provided that all expenses 
connected with the scheme shall be defrayed 
by the promoters, it defines the privileges 
vested in owners, and the penalties which 
follow any breach of trust. The persons, 
company, or owners of any private oyster-bed, 
lawfully formed independently of this Act, 
and their respective agents, servants, and 



Oysters and Mussels. 193 

workmen, may at any season dredge for and 
take oysters from any natural public oyster- 
bed for the purpose of supplying, or replenish- 
ing therewith, any oyster-bed made under the 
order, or any such private oyster-bed (as the 
case may be), and may apply the oysters so 
taken accordingly. But if any person applies 
or uses, or any persons, company, or body, 
knowingly authorise or permit to be applied, 
or used otherwise than in manner authorised 
by this section any oysters so taken; such 
person, or such persons, company, or body 
(as the case may be), shall be liable to all the 
like penalties and consequences, to which he 
or they would have been liable if this section 
had not been inserted in this Act. 

Nor are the rights of property less clearly 
set forth. All oysters or mussels being in, or 
on, an oyster or mussel bed, within the limits 
of any such several fishery,shall be the absolute 
property of the grantees, and in all courts of 
law and equity, and elsewhere, and for all pur- 
poses, civil, criminal, or other, shall be deemed 
to be in the actual possession of the grantees^ 
o 



194 Practical Water-Farming. 

It shall not be lawful for any person^ other 
than the grantees^ their agents^ servants^ and 
workmen^ within the limits of any such 
seyeral fishery, or in any other part of the 
space within the same, described in this be- 
half in the order, knowingly to do any of the 
following things : — 

To use any implement of fishing except a 
hook and line, or a net adapted solely for 
catching floating fish, and so used as not to 
disturb or injure in any manner, any oyster or 
mussel bed, or oyster or mussels^ or the 
oyster or mussel fishery. 

To dredge for any ballast or other substance^ 
except under a lawful authority for improving 
the navigation. 

To deposit any ballast, rubbish, or other 
substance. 

To place any implement, apparatus, or 
thing prejudicial, or likely to be prejudicial, 
to any oyster or mussel bed, or oysters or 
mussels, or the oyster and mussel fisheiy, 
except for a lawful purpose of nayigation or 
anchorage. 



Oysters and Mussels. 195 

To disturb or injure in any manner^ except 
as last aforesaid; any oyster or mussel bed^ 
or oysters or mussels^ or oyster and mussel 
fishery. 

And if any person does any act in contra- 
yention of this section^ he shall^ on summary 
conviction, be liable to the following penalty — 
namely, to a penalty not exceeding £2 for 
the first offence, and not exceeding £5 for 
the second offence, and not exceeding £10 
for the third and every subsequent offence ; 
and every such person shall also be liable to 
make full compensation to the grantees for 
all damage sustained by them, by reason of 
his Tmlawfiil act ; and in de&ult of payment, 
the same may be recovered firom him by the 
grantees, by proceedings in any court of 
competent jurisdiction, whether he has been 
prosecuted for, or convicted of an offence 
against this section or not. These penalties 
do not of course interfere with those enacted 
by the general law of the realm against 
oyster-theft.* 

♦ Vidt "Laxceiiy ksi^r 



196 Practical Water-Farming. 

The tweniy-first clause limits the period 
for which grants shall be made to sixty years* 

Such are the principal provisions of this 
Act, which, however, does not apply to 
Ireland; powersmoreample, no law apparently 
could give, or define rights and privil^es 
more exactly, whilst it grants the clearest of 
all possible titles to property ; yet, on the 3d 
of May 1867, an act for the preservation and 
further protection of oyster-fisheries was 
passed, in order, it would seem, to make 
assurance doubly sure. 

The Board of Trade, to whom the adminis- 
tration of the above Act has been committed, 
issued regulations for the purpose of facilitat- 
ing applications for grants under its pro- 
visions. This document gives full information 
on three points : — 

Ist General principles on which exclusive 
rights of fishing will be granted. 

2d. Title to soil. 

3rf. Form of procedure in applying for a 
grant under the Act of 1866. 

The general principles upon which it 



Oysters and Mussels. 197 

appears all grants will be made by the 
Board of Trade are two : — 

\sU That^ in every case of concession of 
exclusiye fishery-rights, a fair probability 
should be shown, that the supply of oysters 
will be thereby materially increased, and the 
public correspondingly benefited ; and 

2d. That the fishery granted shall not be 
more extensive than the grantees, whether 
corporate or individual, possess the means of 
properly cultivating. 

These fundamental rules, and the other 
minor regulations, have in our judgment been 
carefully and judiciously framed for the 
attainment of their object. 

With regard to the "Title," it may be 
sufficient to state that, by the Crown Lands 
Act 1866, the administration of crown rights 
over the foreshore and bed of the sea is, with 
a few exceptions, transferred to the Board of 
Trade, and the title given by them, therefore, 
is in effect a grant direct from the crown as 
well as from parliament. 

In dealing with the proprietary rights of 



198 Practical Water-Farming. 

the crown, the Board propose to reserve for 
the public purse such share of any ultimate 
profits as may fiEurly belong to the owner of 
such rights, at the same time expressly 
declaring, ^' they will carefully abstain fix>m 
throwing obstacles in the way of public im- 
proYcment, and will be averse to imposing 
any such terms as may impede or delay its 
progress." In this spirit, therefore — and it is 
one which contrasts veiy favourably with that 
of the former guardians of the foreshores, 
" the Woods and Forests" — ^they will consider 
&vourably, proposals founded on the basis of 
determining the rent or royalty, according to 
the profits actually made. 

It is needless to trouble the reader with a 
detail of the form of procedure necessary to 
be foUowed in all applications for grants 
under the Act in question, since this portion 
of the business must almost of necessity 
devolve on the solicitor of the applicants. 
It should be stated, however, that the 
procedure is simple and efficient, and that the 
expenses need not exceed £40 or £50. 



Oysters and Mussels. 199 

Companies may^ of course^ expend as much as 
they please in preliminary inquiries^ by 
engagmg expensive counsel and so forth ; but 
such steps are totally unnecessary, since the 
goYemment employs a commissioner of large 
practical knowledge, perfectly able to judge 
of the facts of each case for himself, on 
purpose to obviate the necessity of any such 
outlay. Twoorders — onefor theriver Humble, 
Hants, and one for the Essex Blackwater — 
have already been granted, whilst several 
others are in the preliminary stages. 

Our reconstructive policy has commenced ; 
we have only, as it were, sown the seed, but 
it has taken root, and in due season will 
produce '^ first the blade, then the ear, after 
that the full com in the ear." 



CHAPTER XIX. 

OYSTERS AND MUSSELS. 

STRUCTURE AND HABITS OP THE OYSTER — 
GENERAL OBSERVATIONS — EXTRACT 
FROM THE REPORT OF THE SEA-FISH- 
ERIES COMMISSION. 

Few of the inferior animals have occupied 
SO large a share of scientific and practical 
attention as the oyster. Innumerable papers 
have recently appeared^ describing his or- 
ganisation as revealed by the microscope; 
and theories^ hereafter to be rejected as 
erroneous or accepted as facts^ have been 
promulged as the immediate consequences of 
such investigations. 

With these we shall not trouble the reader^ 
as at present they can scarcely be considered 
essential to practical water-farming, and 
shall only touch lightly on a few points 



Structure and Habits of the Oyster. 201 

relative to the structure and habits of the 
animal. 

Formed of two unequal valves, and con- 
nected by a hinge of simplest character, the 
shell of the Ostrea edulis presents externally 
a coarse and dirty appearance. This bony 
covering, admirably contrived for the pro- 
tection of the soft gelatinous mass within, 
is composed of innumerable laminas folded 
irregularly on each other. In some species, 
however, it is smooth, in others striated, 
tuberous, or prickly, the lower shell being 
always the deepest. Nothing can be more 
rudimental than the formation of the oyster, 
yet this simplicity is sufficient for all purposes 
of life and comfort, and, like man's more 
perfect organisation, has been pronounced 
" veiy good." No vestige of a foot is to be 
found. Four rows of lungs are placed at a 
little distance from the fringed edge of the 
mantle. The abductor muscle is fixed near 
the centre of the body; and around it lies 
the circulating system. The mouth may be 
seen beneath a kind of hood, formed b^ t]zy& 



202 Practical Water-Farming. 

edges of the mantle, whilst the beard, per- 
formmg the office of a hand, grasps and dis- 
tributes its food. 

Many curious discussions have arisen as to 
whether oysters possess the faculty of loco- 
motion. Recent observation, however, shows 
they can move from place to place by rapidly 
closing their shells, and thus, ejecting the 
water contained between them, create a force 
sufficient to propel themselves backwards, or 
in a lateral direction. 

The principal breeding-season of our 
common oyster is in April and May, at which 
time the spat is cast ; this — ^for about forty^ 
eight hours — ^floats, and resembles minute 
specks of grease. After a brief period of 
involuntary wandering, the young oyster 
fastens on some fixed substance, and then 
commences what may be termed its normal 
mode of life. 

In the cod, salmon, herring, and other 
similar fishes, a given number of ova by no 
means implies the same number of fry, for 
imperfect vitalisation is one of the principal 



Structure and Habits of the Oyster. 203 

causes of the enormous waste that occurs; 
but m the oyster the powers of multiplication 
are indeed wonderfiil^ since the dual sex of 
the animal insures that a million of spawn 
shall equal a million of living creatures. 

It has been asserted that in twenty weeks 
the oyster attains its full growth ; unhappily 
this is but a pleasant fiction^ as any person 
who has visited HayUng Island well knows. 
At the age of twelve weeks, the young 
mollusc is hardly bigger than a split-pea, 
and in this country fully four years are 
required to fit it for the market. The pares 
springing up round our coasts will soon 
teach us how far feeding, climate, and soil, 
can shorten this period. That these agencies 
will affect the oyster beneficially we cannot 
doubt, since it is but the old agricultural 
rule applied to a new description of stock. 
In some places the brood becomes saleable 
(for laying down) in about two years, whilst 
in others it requires three, but whatever may 
be the rate of growth from local circum- 
stances, the cultivator may calculate ou t\s& 



204 Practical Water-Farming. 

young becoming articles of market value long 
before they attain their fiill development. 

It is frequently asserted that oysters have 
not spawned extensively during the last few 
years. It would probably be more correct to 
say that a series of cold and stormy seasons 
injured the spat^ which doubtless fell as 
regularly as the seed of the sower in spring. 
Warmth and quiet^ it is believed, exercise 
great and beneficial influence on the spawn 
during the first few days of life, and conse- 
quently strong winds, currents of exceptional 
force, or rough water, are highly injurious, 
carrying it far from the parent beds, causing 
it perhaps to fall on sand or mud, where its 
destruction is inevitable. From these and 
other less recognised causes, the loss to the 
spat is so enormous, that a loose statement 
prevails that not more than a single oyster 
out of each million comes to maturity. The 
practical importance of some of these points 
must hereafter be considered when we treat 
of oyster-culture. Meanwhile, a brief account 
of the revival of this ancient branch of in- 



Structwre cmd HaUU of the Oyster. 206 

dustrjr may not be without interest and ad- 
vantage to the reader. 

It was in France that Joseph Bemy hit on 
the felicitous idea of hatching fresh-water 
fish by artificial means^ and to France also 
belongs the credit of cultivatrng her fore- 
shores. Twenty years ago there was scarcely 
an oyster to be found on her coasts. At 
Rochelle^ Rochfort, St. Brieuc, over-dredgmg 
had ruined the beds. In this crisis M. Coste 
thought of restoring by artificial means what 
man's improvidence had destroyed. Directed 
by his government to examine the shores of 
Italy and France^ and having inspected the 
bay of AiguilloU; and the pares of Lake 
Fusaro^ he placed the result of his observa- 
tions before the public. In order to settle 
the question whether the system followed at 
Fusaro was applicable to the open sea^ it 
was determined to renew the old oyster-beds 
in the bay of St. Brieuc. The attempt was 
made ; fascines placed to intercept the spat 
were soon covered with it^ and within six 
months the ^^ idea" became a great success. 



206 Practical Water-Farming. 

At the Isle de Rhe^ oyster-rearing soon ob- 
tained the lead. It was commenced in 1858; 
now there are above 4000 farms on its shore, 
some of which are supposed to yield 1000 per 
cent on the outlay. K the reader will ima- 
gine a vast extent of sea-beach, laid bare by 
the ebb-tide and divided into manifold small 
enclosures by low dikes or fences, the inter- 
spaces paved here and there with stones, 
£aggots, tiles, or old shells — ^if he will people 
these small holdings with busy labourers, 
clearing away mud, laying down brood, or 
collecting oysters for the market — ^he will be 
able to form some idea of the pares at the 
Isle de Rhe. 

Previous to the year 1868, the foreshores 
at the Isle de Rhe were but profitless mud- 
banks. At this date, Mr. Boeuf, a poor 
mason, made his first enclosure of some twenty- 
five yards square, and in the following season, 
the stones and faggots he had laid down to 
intercept the spat, were covered with young 
oysters. His neighbours required no better 
evidence that a new and profitable branch of 



Structure and Habits of the Oyster. 207 

industry had been discovered. Two years 
later the beds probably amounted to nearly 
1000^ and produced^ from sale of brood alone^ 
a sum equal to £500. 

Referring to what has been effected subse- 
quently on this island^ Dr. Henry Lawson^ 
late editor of the Populo/r Science Review, 
says — "Five years since, its shores were 
barren and uncultivated, now they give 
employment to 3000 men." 

The annual crop of oysters has increased 
very considerably since Dr. Lawson wrote, 
yet even at that date, the equivalent for 
wages must have exceeded £40,000 sterling. 

That which has been done on the mud- 
banks of the Isle de Rhe may be done on a 
thousand points of our coasts. We shall 
presently show what British energy is in the 
act of accomplishing ; but, before entering 
into the more practical portion of our subject, 
we will offer a few general observations as to 
the grounds most suitable for the growth and 
fattening of the oyster, and give some statistics 
from the last report of the Commissioners. 



208 Practical Water-Farming. 

of the Sea-Fisheries of the United Kingdom^ 
illustrative of the commercial value to be 
derived from the cultivation of this molusc 

Hitherto we have trusted to the deep sea 
for our supply; henceforth, we must rely 
principally on our foreshores, and it is most 
satisfactory to find that the oyster thrives 
and multiplies as well in shallow as in 
deeper water. This is a most important 
fact At twenty or twenty-five iBEithoms, 
however, few or no currents are found, whilst 
they increase in force as the shore rises. 
Calm water, therefore, has been selected by 
the oyster as his proper habitat, and man, by 
dikes and dams, must afford him a home 
suitable to his wants. It is only very recently 
that the importance of this fact has been 
practically recognised. A mixture of rock 
and stones forms the best nidtis for these 
fish, as such ground affords a sufficiency of 
food, and ensures good anchorage. The 
adult oyster fattens very quickly on muddy 
shores, but the young require cleaner ground. 
Marl, so far as our experience goes, seems the 



Structwre and Habits of the Oyster. 209 

best soil for its most perfect development, the 
value of such hints needs no comment. 

Previous to the publication of the reports of 
the Sea-Fisheries Commission, the public pos- 
sessed few data on which to found an opinion 
of the money-value of our oyster-beds. 

From a mass of documents now before me, 
I select at random two extracts, both being 
taken from the records of the Whitstable 
Oyster Fishery. 



Whitstable Oyster Fishery. 

No. 28. 





Quantity of 




1 


Year. 


brood from 


Total cost. 1 




Flats and Essex. 






1852-53 


63,85 3| 


^15,240 


5 


1853-54 


56,907 


16,200 


4 


1854-55 


44,10li 


15,969 


8 3 


1855-56 


30,004 


10,322 


8 11 


1856-57 


40,704 


11,250 


5 6 


1857-58 


77,844 


21,057 


4 3 


1858-59 


134,878i 


28,711 


2J 


1859-60 


83,481 


19,839 


1 1 


1860-61 


49,709 


16,033 


4 5 


1861-62 


84,937 


36,713 


9 lOJ 


1862-63 


22,499 


13,389 


9 10 


1863-64 


15,234 


• 14,553 


19 2 


1864 to 1 
March 1865 J 


2,683i 


1,945 


8 10 


Do. 


2,500 


2,625 






210 Practical Water-Farminff. 



No. 28 — continued. 





Price paid for labour, 


Total expenses for 


Year. 


from August 


each 


each year from August 




year to May ii 


I the 


to May in the next 




next year 




year. 




£ 8. 


d. 


£ 8, d. 


1852-53 


16,793 9 


2 


48,484 11 1 


1853-54 


17,822 5 




46,427 I 5J 


1854-55 


14,154 15 





46,994 I 11 


1855-56 


14,166 11 


6 


36,716 9 3 J 


1856-57 


14,131 8 


8 


42,336 13 4 


1857-58 


19,415 6 


11 


58,887 2 Hi 
65,948 10 9| 


1858-59 


20,445 13 


H 


1859-60 


20,531 18 


6 


64,286 12 7| 


1860-61 


16,713 4 


4 


45,745 1 6 


1861-62 


27,641 18 


9 


74,354 18 1 


1862-63 


43,731 14 


4 


97,794 2 1 


1863-64 


46,609 10 


8J 


79,860 7^ 



Such are the figures presented by a single 
company. It must, however, be remembered 
that these were largely obtamed at the expense 
of the natural beds in the Thames, and 
that the outlay nearly ruined them. Hence- 
forth our stock must be sought from other 
sources, and a few years only can elapse 
before the modem system of oyster-culture 
will ensure a supply fully equal to the home 
and foreign demand. 



CHAPTER^ XX. 

A GLANCE AT BRITISH OYSTER PARCS — 
THEIR PROSPECTS. 

The most successful instance of the pro- 
duction of an artificial spat on our coast 
during the present year, occurred in th^ same 
locality in which it appeared during the 
summer of 1866 — ^namely, at Hayling Island, 
off the Hampshire coast, where an enclosed 
area of water, eighteen acres in extent, and 
from five to six feet in depth, may now be 
said to be literally covered with young 
oysterlings, the growth of the present season. 
The natural capabilities of the Hayling 
Island creeks, for the artificial cultivation of 
oysters, led in 1865 to a private and suc- 
cessful attempt at raising spawn, and after- 
wards to the formation of a company, to 
ensure the work being carried out on a 
larger scale. 



212 Practical Water-Farming. 

The first great experiment was made on 
the site of some old salterns at the south- 
east extremity of the island, the entire water 
area being about three acres and a half, and 
the result of which was perfectly satisfactory. 
In the spring of 1866 two nurseries were 
prepared for the old oysters ; one on the plan 
pursued at Lake Fusaro in Italy ; the other 
on the French model followed at the Isle de 
Rhe. The depth of the Fusaro bed was 
about three feet, which might be considered 
as still water, the tide being only admitted 
at the springs, through a sluice from the 
harbour outside the bank, of the oyster-farm. 
The bottom of this pare, consisting of deep, 
black, and almost fetid mud, was partly 
covered with shingle, on which, in April, 
50,000 oysters, brought from deep-sea beds, 
were laid. Light hurdles, formed of hazel 
and brushwood, were pegged down hori- 
zontally over them in mid-water by stakes, 
driven through the hurdles into the bed of 
the pond. The other nursery, on the plan 
of those at the Isle de Rhe, was covered 



A Glance at British Oyster Pares. 213 

with shingle^ and had a constant^ though 
gentle stream of water passing over it. 
Instead of hurdles, tiles were laid down to 
collect the spat. The pares were connected 
by a narrow causeway. Although no differ- 
ence existed in the kind of oysters, as will be 
observed, there was some variation in the time 
of laying them down. There is also a reason- 
able probability of a considerable difference 
having existed in the quality of the water in 
the two pares, inasmuch as the Fusaro pare 
was merely, we believe, an unused salt-watei: 
pond or lagoon, whilst that laid out on the 
Isle de Rhe system, was constructed on the 
site of some old salterns or salt pits, and as 
such, probably very highly impregnated with 
saline matter. Whether, as the result of 
these different circumstances, or from some 
other cause, the fact remains, that at spawn- 
ing time the hurdles on the Fusaro pare 
were thickly covered with spat, whilst the 
Isle de Rhe pond held none, nor was any 
thrown off subsequently. The difference 
which existed in the time of deposit will, we 



214 Practical Water-Farming. 

believe, help to explain this, for in the latter, 
the oysters were not laid down till the 16th 
of May, whilst in the former they were 
deposited on the 1st of April, nor can we 
donbt, that long interval of six weeks, at a 
season so critical, tended largely to the 
failure of the Isle de Rhe experiment. 

Late in the autumn I visited Hayling, and 
was shown over the works by my friend Mr. 
Hart, the able manager and laborious scien- 
tific observer of the farm. The hurdles were 
still in situ, and were literally covered with 
young oysters. Millions on millions were 
there, thriving and healthy ; the rest shall be 
given in Mr. Hart's own words. "Un- 
fortunately for this supply, magnificent by 
reason of their numbers, and the manner in 
which they had grown by the beginning of 
the following September, it was determined, 
contrary to the advice of the company's 
manager, to allow the young fish to remain 
attached to the hurdles in their original 
position for a certain time, until they had 
attained a larger size. The consequence 



A Glance at British Oyster Pares. 215 

was, that they grew round the sticks, and in 
subsequently removing them, the under shell 
was broken in three cases out of five, and 
seventy-five per cent were thus destroyed. 
The oysters that escaped destruction are 
flourishing amazingly, and now measure from 
the minimum of an inch, to a maximum of 
two inches in diameter, and in September 
1869 will be in the market." 

Since my visit, one pare of eighteen acres, 
and another of seven, has been enclosed and 
stocked. Ten acres besides, are being laid 
out in parallel beds, with clay and chalk 
walls, and a feeding reservoir of five acres, . 
whilst 800 adjoining acres remain for any 
farther extension that may be found re- 
quisite. 

This account, slight as it is, may serve to 
show the extent of the South of England 
Oyster Company's operations ; at present, the 
most important of those now in progress 
round our coasts. 

It is time, however, to return to the 18-acre- 
field alluded to in the commencement of the 



216 Practical Water-Farming. 

chapter. This pare and the adjoining one of 
seven acres were stocked during the spring of 
the present year. The conditions in both were 
similar, the oysters being taken indiscrimi- 
nately from one lot^ and deposited in the ponds 
at the same time. In each, the water ranged 
from five to six feet in depth, whilst hurdles 
or fine twigs were placed as before described. 
On the 1st of June, the presence of oyster-spat 
was discovered in the 18-acre enclosure, and 
by the 6th of the month, the birth of what 
Mr. Hart calls the " baby hosts," was evidently 
brought to a close for the season. Sixteen 
thousand hurdles were staked over the beds. 
These are now (October 10th) being taken 
up, and the young fish removed, together 
with the hark, from the larger sticks^ the 
smaller twigs being cut into short pieces of 
four or five inches. Taking the lowest 
estimate, each of these hurdles holds at least 
5000 little oysters, giving a total of 
80,000,000 as stock for market in 1870-1. 

In 1864 it was estimated that about 
700,000,000 of oysters were consumed in 



A Glance at British Oyster Pares. 217 

London^ and more than that number in the 
provmces^ so that^ it appears^ eighteen acres 
of previously profitless fen or mud-land, are 
capable of supplying an eighth part of the 
present metropolitan demand ; we say " pre- 
sent/' advisedly, for as prices fall, consumption 
must inevitably increase. 

Each year a spat has been obtained at Hay- 
ling Island, but, strangely enough, not from 
the same pond — as the Fusaro pare, which 
gave such enormous returns in 1866, yielded 
nothing the following season, though all 
conditions essential to the success of the 
former year were supposed to be faithfully 
observed in the following one. Whether the 
breeding oysters in the Fusaro pare were 
left unchanged, we have no information ; but 
supposing this to be the case, is it not 
possible, that by their long confinement in 
comparatively stagnant water, their constitu- 
tions may have become enervated, and perhaps 
unfitted for the procreative functions. 

That the oyster spawns each year we do not 
by any means believe, but we feel sure that 



218 Practical Water-Farming. 

under normal conditions^ out of any given 
number^ a certain percentage will always do 
so ; when, therefore, no single fish in 40,000 
or 50,000 produced any spat, we are com- 
pelled to beUeve, that some important, though 
apparently slight condition necessary to suc- 
cess was wanting. It has been calculated 
that an oyster produces about 2,000,000 
of young at one birth ; supposing, therefore, 
only three per thousand spawn annually, we 
may expect 6,000,000 from every thousand 
laid down, and as, in our artificial beds, care 
is taken to exclude " five-fingers," crabs, and 
other enemies to the race we foster, we may 
reasonably hope hereafter to send a large 
proportion of the amount raised, safely to 
market. 

One greatfact should always be remembered 
" that spat never fails at Arcachon." It would 
therefore be wise in our ostreaculturists, to 
send one or two fit persons there, during the 
breeding season, to take careful notes of the 
conditions of atmosphere, water, soil, etc. etc., 
that we may have some standard by which to 



A Glance at British Oyster Pares. 219 

compare our own successes or failures. This 
suggestion occurs in an admirable article con- 
tained in the Field, Oct. 19, 1867, a portion 
of which we cannot help introducing. 

"That it is quite possible to obtain spat 
upon a large scale — at any rate upon our 
southern coasts — ^is certain ; for we have not 
only the two instances of success on the part 
of the Hayling Island Company, but we have 
lately seen an account of a plentiful spat 
having been obtained at Lymington by arti- 
ficial means, and we have also been informed 
by one of the directors of the Isle of Wight 
Oyster Company, that the Company has also 
succeeded this season in obtaining a fine spat 
in their artificial oyster-ponds ; so that it is 
quite certain that a very large supply can 
thus be calculated upon ; and the results are 
so considerable and so very remunerative 
when a spat is obtained, that it may fairly 
be assumed, that if in such undertakings, a 
spat can be gathered once in three years, it 
would pay veiy handsomely. The great 
diflBculty, however, in inducing persona to^ 



220 Practical Water-Farming. 

come forward and support companies for this 
purpose on a large scale^ would seem to be 
the length of time which must elapse before 
any return can be obtained for the money 
invested, combined with the uncertainty of 
the return. Many persons, however, are 
taking up the speculation, and no doubt, ere 
another year or two is past, we shall be able 
to calculate upon such undertakings much 
more in the light of a certainty, than we are 
able to do at present." 

As the South of England Oyster Company 
is at present the most important artificial 
breeding company in the kingdom, we have 
dwelt at some length on the subject, designing 
to make it an exponent of others, which will 
therefore pass more rapidly in review before 
us. Before quitting this locality, however, 
we should observe that there is also a smaller 
undertaking of the same kind at Hayling, 
" The Hayling Island Company." 

At Emsworth, on the same coast, a small 
company has been established about two 
years. They have eleven acres under cultiva- 



A Glance at British Oyster Pares. 221 

tion, and obtained a moderate spat on hurdles 
in the spring of the present year. After 
spatting time, they use the ponds for fattening 
oysters procured by dredging, and from this 
source paid a dividend of eight per cent, in the 
eleventh month of the company's existence. 
The nominal capital is £20,000, only £7000 
of which has been called up. The works 
were commenced in the early part of 1866. 

On the opposite coast there are also two 
artificial pares belonging to the Isle of 
Wight "Oyster Fishing Company (Limited)," 
established in April 1866. One of these called 
Somerton Pare, on the river Medina at Cowes, 
contains about seven or eight acres, and was 
only commenced in the spring of the present 
year. From a letter of the manager (Captain 
Johnstone) to a friend, we are happy to find 
" there is plenty of spat on the hurdles." So 
far as construction is concerned, this pare is 
a great money success, the total cost, exclusive 
of stock-oysters, being only £400. The other 
farm, some miles distant on the river Newtown, 
covers about seven acres. The site occupied 



222 Practical Water-Farming. 

was originally a creek dry at low-water. The 
embankment necessary to retain the water in 
this pare having given way, the works are 
suspended till the coming spring. 

At Poole, in Dorsetshire, there is an 
establishment conducted by M. Gillardie^ a 
native, I think he told me, of Arcachon. 
Together we paddled over the mud, saw the 
oysters — which he told me had improved 
greatly — laid out in long symmetrical beds, 
but, I regret to say, I observed no signs of 
young fish. This pare is situated at the 
mouth of the harbour, where strong tides 
prevail, which I -imagine make the securing 
a successful spat a matter of considerable 
uncertainty. 

At Heme Bay, the company formed a small 
experimental tank during the previous winter, 
and were fortunate in obtaining a spat on 
hurdles. Another farm has been established 
about two years since at Exe Bight, on the 
mouth of the river Exe, Devon. The Company 
rent a large part of the estuary from Lord 
Devon, and have also a salt-water lake of 



A Glance at British Oyster Pares. 223 

many acres, on a warren, which, extending 
almost across the estuary, guards it from 
the effects of the winter gales. This lagoon 
is now converted into an artificial pare, and 
it is difficult to conceive any natural piece of 
water, better suited for the purpose. As 
might have been expected, the company 
obtained a highly satisfactory spat this last 
season. The large extent of ground, its 
natural productiveness, and the warmth of 
the climate, will probably eventually render 
the farms of the Exe Bight Company, the 
most important in the south of England, 
since they are not only fortunate in the pos- 
session of the natural lagoon already mentioned, 
for artificial breeding, but have also a large 
extent of admirable fattening ground in the 
mouth of the river, producing a natural breed 
of natives, which have always held a high re- 
putation in the surrounding counties. Several 
other companies have been formed, and are 
on the point of starting into active life, one 
of which, the Fish and Oyster-Breeding 
Company (Limited), has lately — as already 



224 Practical Water-Farming. 

stated — obtained a grant under the Oyster 
and Mussel Fisheries Act (1866), of several 
hundred acres, of very valuable ground, in 
the river Blackwater, Essex. In Ireland and 
Scotland also, a few pares have been estab- 
lished which have succeeded, more or less 
satisfactorily. 

We may fairly say then, that there can hardly 
be two opinions respecting the prospects of 
our British oyster-fisheries. Scientific cul- 
tivation is yet in its infancy. A very few years 
ago we had everything to learn, but during 
that time experiments, though often falling 
short of complete success, led to more 
matured efforts, which, in turn originating 
a fresh series of attempts, brought us still 
nearer to fixed ideas and assured prosperity. 
Time, however, is required for their fiill 
development ; and as in these kingdoms the 
fish require one year more to arrive at 
maturity than in Italy or the French claires, 
they have not yet lived sufficiently long in 
their new homes to attain their majority; 
still, wherever proper methods have been 



A Olance at British Oyster Pares. 225 

pursued^ spat has been attained. This is all 
that oyster-growers need ; time and care will 
inevitably do the rest. The future can rarely 
be calculated on with certainty, but with the 
ostreaculturist a present spat is equivalent, 
at no distant date, to a splendid interest on 
the capital expended. All the new pares 
and claires prove this ; they only repeat the 
old experiment of reclaiming lands, by nature 
comparatively unproductive. Labour is man's 
destiny and his reward. His task has been 
to replenish the earth and subdue it ; he who 
does so becomes more than a conqueror — a 
blessing and a benefactor to the age he 
adorns. 



CHAPTER XXL 

PRmOIPLES OF OYSTER-CULTURE ^A WORD 

ABOUT MUSSELS, COCKLES, AND PERRI- 
WINKLES. 

Wb must now turn to the practice of oyster- 
culture, which, having passed through Tarious 
stages, may be said to rest on tolerably 
definite principles. The first step taken is 
to obtain a site for the future farm. This 
is usually placed in some creek or estuary; 
the great object being to secure quiet water, 
well supplied with infusoricR and the sporules 
of marine vegetation. In places where a 
considerable extent of foreshore is diumally 
exposed to the action of sun and air, these 
are almost sure to abound. Nearly all the 
new companies have started with two grand 
designs — namely, fattening and breeding; 
we must say a few words on each. 



Principles of Oyster-Culture. 227 

As raising a stock and bringing it to 
maturity takes about three years, the ostrea- 
culturist naturally desires to see some earlier 
return for his capital, and endeavours to 
obtain it by fattening deep-sea oysters for 
market. It has already been noticed that 
mud-lands are well suited for the purpose, 
and that adult fish, laid down in such 
localities, thrive admirably, becoming more 
plump, tender, and succulent; whilst the 
shell, sharing in the improvement, grows 
more smooth and uniform. 

On the farm in Poole harbour, fattening 
has hitherto, I believe, been the main busi- 
ness of the manager, M. Gallardie ; and we 
may well believe his system inferior to none. 
The stretch of mud-land occupied by the com- 
pany is an oblong, extending from east to 
west, and this is laid out in beds and walks, 
with the regularity of a Dutch garden ; the 
former, about four feet in width, being 
planted with innumerable oysters, and the 
intervening paths fenced with brush, during 
the spatting season. Here each, calmly 



228 Practical Water-Farming. 

reposing on its under shell, fattens on the 
rich ouze, and I am enabled to state from 
personal experience that finer, or better fish 
never crossed a gourmand's palate. It need 
hardly be said that the oysters were closely 
arranged side by side, and only in a single 
layer. The reader will observe that in this 
establishment there are no artificial works as 
at Hayling or Exe Bight; the flats have 
simply here been utilised. This arrange- 
ment, whilst it avoids the expense incidental 
to construction, must, I fear, labour under 
the disadvantage of very precarious spats, 
which have hitherto, in this coimtry at least, 
been most surely obtained in tanks and 
ponds protected from tidal currents, and 
where hurdles and brush, being placed at a 
certain distance aI)ove the beds, mechanically 
intercept the spawn as it rises. 

The method followed by M. Gallardie, is 
rather that pursued in France than in Eng- 
land. Like those at the Isle de Rhe, these 
beds are exposed to the action of strong 
tides, and in spite of care, the spawn must 



Principles of Oyster-Culture. 229 

always nin a great risk of being swept away. 
Mud^ too^ is in excess at Poole^ as at the Isle 
de Bhe^ and requires constant labour for its 
removal; still the profits — though infinitely 
less than will hereafter be obtained from 
more artificial^ but at the same time more 
expensive works — ^may well repay both capital 
and labour. 

"It is not surprising," writes Mr. Hart, 
" that a far greater amount of attention has 
been paid by ostreaculturists to the growth 
and fattening of oysters purchased from 
coast-dredgers, than to raising spat from old 
fish. The acknowledged result of this course 
has, however, been to denude natural breed- 
ing-grounds on both coasts, of fish old and 
young; and it has only been the almost 
insurmountable difficulty met with for several 
years now past, in procuring oysters suitable 
for fattening-beds, that has turned the 
attention of people in the direction of breed- 
ing, as well as fattening oysters for the 
table." 

We must return once more to Hayling. 



230 Practical Water-Farming. 

Here the spat^ as before obsenred, is obtained 
from ponds — ^in fact in cahn water — ^where it 
cannot be drifted away^ and this isolation is 
one prime element of success. But in the 
experiments carried out at Hayling^ it will 
be remembered; that whilst the Fusaro pond 
proved a mine of wealthy the Isle de Bhe 
pond failed in toto. Can this be accounted 
for ? We think it can in a great degree. 

Besides the points adverted to in a preced- 
ing chapter^ it may be observed that in the 
former enclosure, hurdles were placed over 
the mother fish ; in the latter, tiles only were 
laid down. We do not say no spat can be 
obtained under the latter conditions, far, very 
far from it, but we believe the super-imposed 
hurdles must arrest it, whilst any other kind 
of clutch is more or less uncertain in its 
action. There appears, moreover, to have been 
a constant though gently running stream pass- 
ing through the Isle de Rhe pond, and this, too, 
probably contributed to its failure. In the 
small experimental tank made at Heme Bay 
during the winter of 1866-7, the company 



Principles of Oyster-Culture. 231 

obtained a spat on hurdles^ a formation 
similar to that of the Fusaro pond^ producing 
similar results. These facts are well worth 
attention. We are studying a new art, and 
must learn alike from failure, as from success. 
The points most worthy of imitation are 
isolation and super-imposed impediments to 
the escape of the spat during the brief period 
of its wandering life. It is one thing, 
however, to obtain spat, but another to 
utilise it. We have already seen how 
seventy-five per cent of the great oyster- 
harvest at Hayling was lost by the process 
of detaching the young fish from the hurdles. 
This was partly due to the period at which 
the operation was performed, for had the 
oysters been allowed to attain a larger 
growth, they would have suflFered less, whilst 
the deformity would, during subsequent 
development, have passed away in a great 
degree. Such an accident is not likely to 
occur again, sidce it can be obviated by the 
simple plan of, peeling the bark from the 
hurdles, and thus ensuring that a level 



232 Practical Water-Farmmg. 

surface shall destroy all chance of cunra- 
ture. 

Time is money^ says the proverb^ and it 
would effect no small saving to the oyster- 
farmer^ if he could send his stock twelve 
months earlier to market. On the coast of 
England the fish require nearly a year more 
to reach maturity^ than they do in the warmer 
waters of France ; but it remains to be seen 
whether artificial feeding cannot be made to 
neutralise the effects of climate. We know 
how large an influence it exercises on terres- 
trial farm-stock ; and^ judging from analogy, 
there appears to be no reason why a similar 
process, judiciously modified, should not 
succeed equally well when applied to 
animals of inferior type. So far as we know, 
such a plan has not yet been tried at all — 
certainly not on any considerable scale — ^by 
our ostreaculturists. 

In a former chapter,* a statement from the 
report of the " Sea-Fisheries Commission " 
was given, regarding the sums expended in 

• Chap. xix. pp. 209, 210. 



Principles of Oyster-Culture. 233 

oyster-culture by a single company. We 
will now give a few figures from a work of 
Mr. Lobb, which will be satisfactory, as 
showing the profits made, and anticipated, 
fi-om two of the fields of oyster enterprise so 
often mentioned. "My visit to the bed," 
writes this gentleman, "took place upon 
10th of July 1866." M. Chaumel was his 
conductor, and probably famished the follow- 
ing statistics : — 

Theexpense of makingthebedLahiUon*was £112 
Purchase of oysters .... 808 
Purchase of boat . . . . .40 

Guard 104 

Extra labour 60 

Tiles 16 

£1114 
The results are as follows : — 
Returns from sale of oysters . . 8000 
Deduct expenses . . . . 1114 

Profit realised . . . • . £6860 
So much for oyster-farming at Arcachon. 

* "LahiUon" is a narrow strip of sea-bottom, in the 
Bay of Arcachon, 2700 metres long by 180 broad. In 
1860, M. Chaumel— commandant of the brig Leger, the 



234 Practical Water-Farming. 

The following facts and figures are also given 
by Mr. Lobb of the cost and anticipated profits 
of the Hayling Island Company : — 

Purchase of salterns . £500 
Labour in preparing the 

same . 300 

Hurdles . . 3 3 

Cost of 50,000 oysters 

to breed . . . 50 

£853 3 

Wages for two years, for 

four men . . £400 

Directors' fees, salaries, 

interest, etc. . . 150 

550 

£1403 3 



5,000,000 oysters at 10s. per tub £2500 
Deduct the expenditure of two years 550 

Estimated profits . . . £1950 

Which would yield an annual dividend of 
more than cent per cent on the capital, 

guard-ship on that part of the coast— was directed by the 
Minister of Marine to cany out M. Coste*s recommenda- 
tions as to oyster-culture. The reader will see the success 
which attended M. Chaumel's efforts, under the orders of 
his government. The receipts for the year 1866 do not 
appear in the account, as ''the return" was not made 
whilst Mr. Lobb*s work was in the press. 



Principles of Oyster-Culture. 235 

£853 : 3 : 0. Mr. Lobb's Tolume waspublished 
at the end of 1866 ; since that time the works 
at Hayling have grown alike in expense and 
fairer prospects. Here we will leave the sub- 
ject, and whilst bidding it adieu, may be 
pardoned for expressing a hearty wish that 
the company whose fortimes we have so long 
followed may soon reach the culminating 
point of oyster prosperity. 

As the Oyster and Mussel Fisheries Act, 
has in a great degree placed the future of 
our foreshores in the hands of the Board of 
Trade, we may well inquire in what spirit 
they have discharged their high duties. 

Unfortunately, the first applications were 
rejected; we say "unfortunately," since 
such rejections gave an opening for those 
whose passions or prejudices were opposed to 
the workers, or the working of the Act. It 
may not, therefore, be out of place to say a 
few words on the causes which led to the 
rejection of some of the earlier applications. 
Amongst the first of these were two of no 
ordinary pretensions, since the one sought to 



236 Practical Water-Farming. 

obtain a grant of the entire Solent^ whilst the 
other^ with lees ambition^ desired to possess 
a moiety of the same. Had these chums 
been granted, many eTisting rights must 
have been crashed; nor did it appear either 
that the claimants could effectoally have 
cultivated so large a tract, or that the public 
would have received any benefit. Under 
these circumstances, where neither public 
nor private interests could have been ad- 
vanced, the Board had no altematire but to 
reject the applications. The best evidence, 
however, of the earnest desire of the Board 
of Trade to discharge their difficult duties in 
the most conciliatory spirit, is to be found 
in the appointment of Mr. Cholmondeley 
Pennell, as Her Majesty's Commissioner. In 
this gentieman, are united practical know- 
ledge, independence, and rare tact, together 
with great temper, courtesy^ and patient 
investigation. Constantiy called to decide 
between conflicting interests, he has already 
won '^golden opinions from all sorts of 
men,'' and hereafter, when the history of Act 



Principles of Oyster-Culture. 237 

and Board shall be written, we beUere the 
utility of the one, and the public appreciation 
of the other, will be acknowledged to have 
been due in a great degree to the judicious 
appointment of Mr. Cholmondeley Pennell. 

We must now say a few words about 
mussels and cockles; did space allow, it 
would be important to inquire fidly into the 
habits and mode of cultivating these edible 
molluscs, with the view of bringing them into 
more general use, but as a systematic 
treatise is impossible, we propose merely to 
offer a few general remarks on the subject. 
*' There are special reasons," says a most able 
writer, " for seeking new food amongst mol- 
luscs and shell-fish. They can be confined to 
localities and preserved; their habits, their 
wants, their peculiarities, can be studied, and 
from careful observations, deductions can be 
drawn, which may lead to a regular and 
scientific system of culture. The experiments 
tried with so much success at the Isle de Rhe, 
and more recently at HayUng Island, have 
shown that the oyster can be as systematically 



238 Practical Water-Farming. 

cultivated as com can; and there seems to be 
no reason — at the first glance certainly— 
why other stationary creatures of a kindred 
kind should not also be brought into farm. 

'^ There would not seem to be any reason 
why enormous aquaria should not be estab- 
lished in the many &TourabIe estuaries 
around the coasts of the kingdom^ in which 
not only oysters might be cultivated to a 
much larger extent than is now done^ but 
other molluscs and conchifers might be 
farmed for the public good, and for private 
advantage." 

For our present purpose the edible mussel 
Mytihis edulis need only be mentioned. De 
gu8tibu8 non diymtandum est, is a rule 
universally accepted, and as regards the 
mussel, admits the broadest interpretation; 
for by some persons it is called " the most 
agreeable of all shell-fish," whilst by others 
it is held scarcely fit for human food. In 
Scotland the fish is largely used, about 100 
bushels being eaten annually in Edinburgh 
and Leith alone. An extensive prejudice. 



Principles of Oyster-Culture. 239 

however^ exists that mussels^ at least during 
certain seasons^ are unwholesome; probably 
it would be more correct to say, the unfaTour- 
able symptoms occasionally manifested after 
eating them, are due to their having been 
taken from unwholesome localities, or used at 
improper times. 

The edible mussel abounds on the whole 
sea-board of Britain, but at present is not 
cultivated, at least in the proper acceptation 
of the term, in any part of the kingdom. 
Her Majesty's Commissioner, however, in- 
forms me one application is already before 
the Board. Hitherto it has been deemed a 
kind of common property, and has been used 
more as bait than for food. In France, how- 
ever, it is extensively cultivated for the table, 
and who that has seen the countless myriads 
produced in the bay of Aiguillon, can forget 
the number, size, and quality, of the fish. 
Over the bay, a large portion of which is dry 
at low water, long rows of stakes are driven 
into the mud, and interlaced with brush. On 
these the spat fastens, grows, and in due 



240 Practical Water-Farming. 

time is thinned^ transplanted^ and finally sent 
to market. This fiEurm has existed above seyra 
centuries^ and proves at least two points con- 
clusively; first, that the mussel, if properly 
prepared, and eaten at the right season, is 
not unwholesome; secondly, that such a fern 
can be made to pay: otherwise we should 
not see a concern, established about 1130, 
flourishing in 1867. 

It is much to be wished that one or more 
of the Scotch Firths may imitate the industiy 
carried on at Aiguillon. 

like the mussel, the cockle appears to be 
regarded in this country as common properly, 
or at least the right to gather them seems 
very loosely defined. As they have hitherto 
been protected by no law actively enforced, 
and are still very numerous, it may fairly be 
asserted that their hardiness and fecundity 
are of no mean order. With our country- 
men, the cockle is held in higher estimation 
than the mussel, and with a little care in the 
selection of suitable grounds, and a moderate 
close-time, might be multiplied ad infinitum. 



Principles of Oyster Culture. 241 

The scollop commands a higher price in the 
market, but has neyer yet been cultiyated so 
far as we know. It abounds in Dublin and 
Camckfergus bays, where it is actively dredged; 
the smaller fish being used for bait^ whilst 
the larger are highly esteemed for the table. 
There is a growing demand for limpets and 
periwinkles. The quantity of the latter sold 
in London alone is enormous, as the follow- 
ing extract from "the minutes of evidence 
taken by the Sea-Fisheries Commission " will 
show. 

" With regard to periwinkles : do you sell 
any large number of them ?" 

" Yes ; the supply comes from the Orkney 
and Shetland Islands, and all round the 
Scotch and Irish coasts." 

"Has the price fallen?" 

" No ; it is more than it was. I remember 
a circumstance that took place about twenty- 
four years ago, which will give you some idea 
of the increase. On Whit-Monday, there 
were only 50 bushels in the market, and it 
took two days to sell them ; now we sell from 



242 Practical Water-Farming. 

300 to 500 bushels in the same tiine^ and at 
quite as good a price. They are used by all 
classes^ and are sold in almost every street in 
London." 

These and many other inferior species of 
shell-fish might be largely increased^ and 
greatly unproved by art There is a market 
for all ; a remuneratiye price for all. W\^ 
plenty of consumers^ it is to. be hoped that 
cultivators will not long be wanting. 



CHAPTER XXII. 

LOBSTERS AND CRABS — PRAWNS AND 
SHRIMPS — GENERALITIES. — DE NECES- 
SITATE. 

First in value as in goodness comes the 
lobster^ an animal once numerous^ and even 
now not scarce round our coasts. His home 
is in the purest water, beneath which he 
walks through brown and tangled forests of 
palmy weeds, a warrior in fiill panoply, ever 
ready to do battle with all comers. In these 
pages, however, he must not appear in a 
poetic, but prosaic aspect. If we consider 
him scientifically, it will be to determine his 
value as a domestic animal; even if we 
inquire into his gastronomic tastes, it will 
be from the wish to learn how to feed him ; 
and if we visit his home, it will be with the 
design of learning how to fit up a house 
in some degree resembling that from which 



244 Practical Water-Farming. 

he is sure to be kidnapped. With these selfish 
ends in view, we will see what science tells us. 
Passing over the general anatomy of the 
lobster, we may observe that the ovary or 
place in which the spawn is produced, is 
situated towards the tail, where a red coral- 
like substance may always be found. This 
mass, composed of atoms closely adherent, is 
in fact spawn, too crude for exclusion. 
From this receptacle proceed two canals, 
which, opening through the integuments on 
either side the mesian line, allow the fish to 
place her eggs under the protection of her 
over-arching shell, where they advance gradu- 
ally to maturity, like the young of the 
terrestrial marsupials. 

Although the procreative functions of the 
lobster are of a high order, the fecundity of 
the female is very great, since she produces 
from 20,000 to 25,000 eggs each season. 
We need hardly pause to remark how much 
this faculty enhances the value of the lobster 
as a domestic animal. 

The spawn is carried by the mother till 



Lobsters and Crabs. 245 

nearly fit to commence independent life, and 
when cast off soon gives birth to the young 
crustacean, which grows rapidly, but passes 
through many changes before it assumes the 
form, size, and colour, with which ordinary 
observers are best acquainted. During the 
early period of growth it necessarily casts its 
shell frequently — ^in the second year, every 
two months; but as size increases, a new 
dress is less often required, till at last, when 
arrived at the fulness of physical dignity, 
its armour grows as it were rusty, and be- 
comes coated over with parasitic shells. 

As is now well known, the lobster only 
increases in size during the short period of 
"moulting," but this increase is so great, 
that it is almost as difficult to believe the 
cast-off clothes ever fitted the large fleshy 
mass lying languidly beside them, as that 
the gigantic geni ever came out of the jar, 
the lid of which had been in an evil hour 
removed by the Arabian fisherman. 

Delighting in rocky ground, probably for 
the fastnesses such localities afford to a 



246 Practical Water-Farming. 

creature so frequently defenceless^ lie feeds 
chiefly on the weeds which surround him, 
chopping up his salad with the large claw 
like any other epicure. 

For all practical purposes, so for at least 
as fecundity, food, and habits, are concerned, 
the foregoing remarks apply to the crab, who 
enjoys an amount of popularity almost equal 
to that held by the lobster. The consump- 
tion of these fish is enormous, and as prices 
are high, they are sought with a ruinous 
industry which bids fair to exhaust the mine. 
Every headland and reef on the English, 
Scotch, and Irish coasts, is diligently fished. 
On every fiord of the stormy Orkney and 
Shetland Isles, long rows of corks are dancing 
on the waves. Hardy Antrim men push their 
light dronthens* from an iron-bound shore ; 
steer across the dangerous North Channel, and 
pass from island to island through the long 
andhowlingwinter. Such unremitting pursuit 
as might be expected, has told heavily on the 

* Gigs of about 23 feet keel, and 6 feet beam, origi- 
nally copied from the Norwegian Dronthen, a boat whose 
qualities, in a heavy sea, cannot easily be over-rated. 



Lobsters arid Crabs. 247 

number and size both of lobsters and crabs. 
My experience is tolerably extensive, and I 
am convinced that a long range of coast may 
easily be swept clean by over work, or, at any 
rate, left so bare of these fish, that they no 
longer pay for gear and labour. A few years 
since, I sent a boat's crew to report on the 
productiveness of the headlands and bays 
along the north-west of Ireland. They spent 
a summer in their little voyage of discovery, 
and the details they gave relative to the ease 
with which even favourable localities could 
be exhausted, are not without interest and 
instruction. The portion of coast visited by 
the crew in question was new ground ; so far 
as the Crustacea were concerned, it had 
scarcely ever been fished except at rare in- 
tervals, and even then with very little skill. 
The first attempt was made in bright settled 
weather, conditions not favourable for lobster 
catching, yet the success of the party was 
wonderful — two dozen creels often taking as 
many as 300 fish in one day, a large propor- 
tion of which ranged from 4 to 6 pounds each. 



248 Practical Water-Farming. 

After a week's labour the sport graduallj 
declined, and at the end of a month neces- 
sitated a change of place. Here^ again, 
fortune smiled on them as before, till 
decreasing captures once more warned them 
to seek ''fresh fields and pastures new/' 
Through the entire summer the same gradual 
falling off in the numbers captured showed 
how easily even good spots might be fished 
out, and proved indisputably that over-creel- 
ing would be as destructive to the lobster, 
as over dredging has been to the oyster. A 
few years before, the same results followed 
the exertions of the first pioneers in the out 
islands, many of whom I knew well. When 
they visited the Hebrides the lobsters seemed 
inexhaustible ; yet after two or three winters 
their gains did little more than pay moderate 
wages and expenses. These facts throw us 
back, as it were, on practical water-farming, 
and lead us to inquire whether the valuable 
crustaceans we have been considering cannot 
be advantageously cultivated. 
The only experiment in this direction with 



Lobsters and Crabs. 249 

which we are acquamted, was made in 1866 
by Mr. Hart at Hayling Island, who, early 
in that year, placed about two dozen lobsters 
in a small pond, supplied at spring-tides 
with water from the neighbouring estuary. 
I visited the nursery in the autumn, where I 
saw thousands of infant lobsters. From causes 
with which we perhaps are not acquainted, 
the brood perished during the winter. Mr. 
Hart was perfectly aware that the experiment 
could hardly have been tried under more 
unfavourable circumstances. The pond 
seemed to want all that we are accustomed 
to consider essential to lobster life ; yet the 
old fish spawned, the young ones grew, and 
all promised fair, till either the frost or the 
want of some indispensable conditions killed 
them. But who can say this attempt has 
been in vain ? Unquestionably it fell short 
of success, yet it proved that lobsters can be 
domesticated, and has left no doubt on our 
minds that under more favourable circum- 
stances lobster-farming will prove a great 
success. 



250 Practical Water-Farming, 

Let any aqueculturist who desires to em- 
bark in this branch of industry, inspect the 
larger pools laid bare by the ebb. There he 
will find a submarine forest, pure water, and 
a rocky irregular bottom ; in short, all the 
requisite normal conditions. Why should 
not these natural aquaria be utilised ? Orants 
of foreshore, fit for the culture of these 
crustaceous animals, could be obtained from 
the Board of Trade, and what a saving of 
life and property might be eflTected! If 
suitable pools were stocked, fenced with iron 
gratings, and the lobsters fed with coarse fish 
or offial, a more regular supply would be 
obtained, the risk to gear avoided, and many 
valuable lives annually saved. But cultiva- 
tion need not be limited to rock-pools; 
advantage might be taken of the heads of 
numberless narrow fiords, such as may be seen 
almost everywhere along the Highland coast 
and the out islands ; nor is there any reason 
why artificial ponds, roughly paved with rock, 
and well supplied with pure water, should 
not be constructed and worked with profit. 



Lobsters and Crabs. 251 

If the experiment at Hayling Island — ^not- 
withstanding its great local disadvantagesr-so 
nearly succeeded^ may we not believe that 
any or all of the plans at which we have 
hinted might reasonably be expected to 
answer ? 

The smaller Crustacea^ such as prawns and 
shrimps, might be similarly treated in locali- 
ties suited to their habits. There is hardly 
a Umit to the demand for these small 
dainties, which in quiet waters — where a 
happy mixture of sand, rock, and w^eed, 
existed — would be certain to yield full 
returns. 

Whilst glancing at the cultivation of our 
foreshores, we do not desire to embark on 
the sea of hypothesis, or we might speak of 
the utilisation of inlets, salt-water lakes, and 
lagoons, as pares for plaice, dabs, flounders, 
mullets, and the like. 

Any one who is conversant with the 
brackish streams on our coasts, must have 
observed the multitude of small flat fish 
constantly to be seen in the mouths of such 



252 Practical Water-Farmmg. 

waters. They are the fiy of migratoiy 
tLo\mdeTa(Pleuronecte8flesti8.) Whether they 
wander far, or hover near the place where 
they are bred^ is not yet determined^ though 
there is reason to believe they do not stray 
to any distance. Might not the experiment 
of breeding these creatures be tried, with 
reasonable hope of success ? 

With our present views, the sea is an aqua 
incognita ; we have a glimpse, and a glimpse 
only, of reclaiming this vast region. Except 
in a few cases our ideas are vague, and our 
plans undefined. Even its food-riches, 
though generally admitted, are not fully 
estimated. Considerable lights however, has 
been thrown on this point by the Report of 
the Sea-Fisheries Commission, from which 
we extract the following important passage : — 

'^The great importance of fish, as an 
article of food, may be clearly shown by a 
comparison of the total supply of fish and 
beef to London in the course of a single year. 
Neither in the case of fish nor of beef is it 
possible to give accurate statistics; but it 



Lobsters and Crabs. 253 

has been roughly estunated that London 
consumes 300,000 fat cattle annually, which, 
at an average weight of 6 cwt. each, would 
amount to 90,000 tons of beef. At this 
moment there are between 800 and 900 
trawl-vessels engaged in supplying the Lon- 
don market with fish; and assuming the 
average annual take to be 90 tons, this 
would give a total of some 80,000 tons 
of trawl-fish. This is irrespective of vast 
quantities of herrings, sprats, shell-fish, and 
other kinds of fish, which are supplied by 
other modes of fishing. The weight of fish 
and of beef annually consumed in London is 
thus in no great disproportion. 

" The produce of the sea round our coasts 
bears a far higher proportion to that of the 
land than is generally imagined. The most 
fi^quented fishing-grounds are much more 
prolific of food than the same extent of the 
richest land. Once in the year, an acre of 
good land, carefully tilled, produces a ton of 
com, 2 or 3 cwt. of meat or cheese. The 
same area at the bottom of the sea, on the 



254 Practical Water-Farming. 

best fi8hiiig-groimd&; yields a greater weight 
of food to the perseyering fisherman eyeiy 
week in the year. Five yessels belonging to 
the same owner, in a single night's fishing, 
brought in 17 tons weight of fish^ an amount 
of wholesome food equal in weight to that 
of 50 cattle, or 300 sheep. The ground 
which these yessels coyered during the 
night's fishing could not haye exceeded an 
area of 50 acres. 

"When we consider the amount of care that 
has been bestowed on the improyement of 
agriculture, the national societies that are 
established for promoting it, and the scien- 
tific knowledge and engineering skill which 
haye been enlisted in its aid, it seems 
strange that the sea-fisheries haye hitherto 
attracted so little of the public attention." 

The high price of food occupies the 
serious regard of thoughtful men. Com 
has risen so rapidly that an adyance of 10s. 
per quarter has been established during 
the last month, whilst meat has by no means 
fallen in proportion. It is to be feared all 



Lobsters and Crabs. 255 

common articles have an upward tendency ; 
in fact, there is a hard race continually going 
on between demand and supply. While free 
trade is opening fresh markets, the natural 
increase of population is opening fresh 
mouths, and good wholesome living, remarks 
the Times, "enters into the expectation of 
classes who had no such expectation thirty 
years ago. Every fresh supply, however, is 
attended by some fresh demand. The 
cheaper wheat becomes, the greater is the 
consumption of bread. Exactly in propor- 
tion to the cheapness of meat will be the 
increase of customers to the butcher's shop. 
Once, however, let supply equal demand, 
and food will cease to hold a fictitious value." 
The question is, where is it to come from ? 
We trust "Practical Water-Farming" may, in 
some measure, furnish an answer. The art 
of submarine cultivation, however, is new; 
thought, care, and experiment, are all needed 
to bring it to perfection ; but then, in what 
scheme for man's advancement are they not 
required ? We know of none ; but this we 



256 Practical Water-Farfning. 

do know, our wants are great ; food, once 
deemed a necessity, is fest becoming a 
luxury, and the most direct means by whicli 
it can be suppUed, is from a large develop- 
ment of our fisheries in salt and fresh water. 



FINIS. 



Printed by R CLARK, Edinburgh. 



88 Pkinces Street, 
Edirthirgh, 



EDMONSTON & DOUGLAS' 
LIST OF WORKS 



Wanderings of a 19'attiralist in India, 

The Western Himalayas, and Cashmere. By Db. A. L. ADAMS, of the 22d Begl- 
ment. 1 vol. 8yo, with illustratioiis, price 10s. 6d. 

A Short American Tramp in the fall of 1804. 

By the Editor of ' Life in Normandy.' Svo, price 12s. 

Memoir of Iiieutenant-Gteneral Sir Balph Abercromby, E3.» 

1793-1801. By his Son JAMES LORD DUNFEBMLIXE. 8vo, price lOs. 6d. 

Essays and Tracts: 

The Cnltore and Discipline of the Mind, and other Essays. By JOHN ABER* 
GROMBIE, M.D., Late First Physician to the Queen for Scotland. New Edition. 
Fcap. Syo, cloth, Ss. 6d. 

The Malformations, Diseases, and Injiiries of the Fingers 

and Toes, and their Surgical Treatment By THOMAS ANNANDALE, F.RC.S., 
Assistant Surgeon, Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh. The Jacksonian Prize for the 
Year 1864. 1 vol. 8vo, with Illustrations, price 10s. 6d. 

Odal Bights and Feudal Wrongs. 

A Memorial for Orkney. By DAVID BALFOUR of Balfour and Trenaby. Svo, 
price 6s. 

Basil St. John. 

An Autumn Tale. 1 voL 8to, price 128. 

By the Iioch and Biver Side. 

Forty Graphic Illustrations by a New Hsai'QL O^J^OT^ttc^Ci^\!i3Bsv^s*sav€ci\ss^^ 



EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS, 



Aunt Ailie. 

Second Edition. By CATHARINE D. BELL, Author of < Consin Kate's & 
« Margaret Cecil/ etc. Fcap. Svo, cloth, 8a 6d. . 

Charlie and Ernest ; or, FLay and Work. 

A Story of Hazlehnrst School, with Fonr BliiBtrations by J. D. By M. BEfT. 
EDWABDS. Boyal 16mo, Sa 6d. 

British Birds drawn from 19'atiire. 

ByMa&BLACKBUBN. (J. B.) Tolio, pzlce 10s. 0d. India Proofis, Sla. 

Homer and the Iliad. 

In three Ports. By JOHN STUART BLACEIE, Professor of Greek in the 
Tersity of Edinbori^ In 4 vols, demy 8vo, price 42a 

Part L — ^Homeric DissERTATioKa 

II.— The Iliad in English Yersb. 
IIL — Commentary, Philological and ABCHfiOLooiCAL. 

By (he same AfUhor. 

On Democracy. 

A Lecture deUvered to the Working Men's Institute, Edinburgh. Sixth Ed 
price Is. 

On Beauty. 

Crown 8vo, cloth, 8s. 6d. 

Iiyrical Poems. 

Crown 8vo, doth, 7s. 6d. 

On Greek Pronunciation. 
Demy 8to, 8a 0d. 

Memoirs of the ILife, Writings, and Discoveries of Sir Ic 

Newton. By Sir DAVID BREWSTER, K.H., A.M., LL.D., D.C.L., F.RS., 
etc With Fortndta New and Cheaper Edition, 2 vola fcap. 8yo, cloth, 12& 

Works by Margaret Maria Gordon (liee Brewster). 

Lady Elinor Mordaunt ; or. Sunbeams in the Castle. Crown 8vo, cloth, 9& 

Letters prom Cannes and Nice. Illustrated by a Lady. 8vo, cloth, 12s. 

Work ; or. Plenty to do and How to do it. Thirty-fourth thousand. Fcapi 
cloth, 2s. 6d. 

LnTLB Millie and her Four Places. Cheap Edition. Fiftieth thou 
Limp cloth. Is. 

Sunbeams in the Cottage ; or. What Women may do. A narrative chiefl 
dressed to the Working Classes. Cheap Edition. Forty-first thonaand. 
doth, Is. 



88 PRINCES STREET, EDINBURGH. 



Works by Margaret Maria QoTdon—ContvimML 

Fb£Vention ; or, An Appeal to Economy and Common-Sense. 8to, 6d. 

The Word and the World. Price 2d. 

Leaves of HEALma foe the Sick and Sorbowful. Fcap. 4to, dofh, 8s. Od. 
Cheap Edition, limp cloth, 2s. 

The Motheru»s Boy ; with an lUnstration by J. Noel Paton, &S.A. GShMp 

Edition, limp cloth, Is. 

France under Bichelieu and Colbert, 

By J. H. BRIDGES, M.B., late Fellow of Oriel College, Oxford. In 1 ToL 

small 8yo, price 8s. 6d. 

Memoirs of John Brown, D JD. 

By the Rev. J. CAIBNS, D.D., Berwick, with Supplementary Chapter by his Son, 
John Brown, M.D. Fcap. 8vo, cloth, 9s. 6d. 

Works by John Brown, M.D., FJt.S:B. 

Locke and Sydenham, with other Professional Papers. By JOHN BROWN, M,D. 
A New Edition in 1 voL extra fcap. Svo, price 7s. 6d. 

HoRiE SuBSECiv^ Sixth Edition, in 1 vol. extra fcap. Svo, price 7s. 6d. 

Letter to the Rev. John Cairns, D.D. Second Edition, crown Svo, sewed, 2s. 

Arthur H. Hallam ; Extracted from < Horse Snbsecivse.' Fcap. sewed, Ss. ; doth, 
2s. 6d. 

Rab and his Friends ; Extracted from < Horse Snbsecivn.' Thirty-fifth thousand, 

Fcap. sewed, 6d. 
Marjorie Fleming : A Sketch. Fifteenth thousand. Fcap. sewed, 6d. 

Our Dogs; Extracted from 'Horse Subsecivse.' Nineteenth thousand. Fcap. 
sewed, 6d. 

Rab and his Friends. With Illnstrations by George Harvey, RSA., J. Noel 
Paton, R.S. A., and J. B. New Edition, small quarto, cloth, price 8s. 6d. 

" With Brains, Sir ; " Extracted from * Horse Subsecivse.' Fcap. sewed, 6d. 

MiNCHMooR. Fcap. sewed, 6d. 

Jeems the Doorkeeper : A Lay Sermon. Price 0d. 

The Enterkin. Price 6d. 

Iiecturcs on the Atomic Theory, and EssaySy 

Scieu f.c and literary. By SAMUEL BROWN. 2 vols., crown Svo, doth, 15s. 

The iography of Samson 

111 nstrated and Applied. By the Rev. JOHN BRUCE, D.D.^^i&s&iiwst ^\'«:«fc'^ 
Andrew's Church, Edinburgh Second EdMon. \%niO, ^Ci\jk^*is^ 



EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS, 



/ 



My Indian Journal 

Containing descrii>tion8 of the principal Field Sports of India, with Notes on the 
Natural History snd Habits of the Wild Animals of the Coontry— a visit to the 
Neilgfaerry Hills, and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. By CoLoinci. WALTER 
CAMPBELL, author of ' The Old Forest Banger.' Sro, with Dlustrations, price Ite. 

Popular Tales of the West Highlands, 

Orally Collected, with a translation by J. F. CAMPBELL. 4 vols., extra fcap., 
cloth, 32s. 

Inatignral Address at Edinburgh, 

April 2, 1866, by THOMAS CABLYLE, on being Installed as Bector of the Uni- 
versity there. Price Is. 

Book-keeping, 

Adapted to Commercial and Judicial Accounting, giving Systems of Book-keeping 
for Lawyers, Factors and Curators, Wholesale and BetaU Traders, Newspapers, 
Insurance Offices, and Private House-keeping, etc. By F. H. CABTEB, C. A. 8vo, 
cloth, price 10s. 

Characteristics of Old Church Architecture, etc.. 

In the Mainland and Western Islands of Scotland. 4to, with Illustrations, price 858. 

Ballads from Scottish History. 

By NOBVAL CLYNE. Fcap. 8vo, price 6s. 

Iiife and Works of Bev. Thomas Chalmers, D.D., Iili J). 

Memoirs or the Rev. Thomas CHALMEBa By Bev. W. Hanna, D.D., LL.D. 4 
vols., 8vo, cloth, £2 : 2s. 

Cheap Edition, 2 vols., crown 8vo, cloth, 12s. 

Posthumous Works, 9 vols., 8vo — 

Daily Scripture Readings, 3 vols., £1 : 11 : 6. Sabbath Scripture Headings, 8 
vols., £1 : Is. Sermons, 1 vol., 10s. 6d. Institutes of Theology, 2 vols., 
£1 ; Is. Prelections on Butler's Analogy, etc., 1 voL, 10s. 6d. 

Sabbath Scripture Readings. Cheap Edition, 2 vols., crown 8vo, IDs. 

Daily Scripture Readings. Cheap Edition, 2 vols., crown 8vo, lOs. 

Astronomical Discx>urses, Is. Commercial Discourses, Is. 

Select Works, in 12 vols., crown Svo, cloth, per vol, 6s. 

Lectures on the Romans, 2 vols. Sermons, 2 vols. Natural Theology, Lectures 

on Butler's Analogy, etc., 1 vol. Christian Evidences, Lectures on Palsy's 

Evidences, etc., 1 voL Institutea of Theology^ 2 vols. Political Economy ; 

with Cognate Essays, 1 vol. "Po\i\.7ot«k.'S«.\AOT^\'^^A. cSissxx5^«sv^C]oUege 

Establishments, 1 vol. ^oTaX"P\^oao^\v's,^\Kod5VR\ftT^^8asj^^ 

Ivol 



88 PRINCES STREET, EDINBURGH. 



• Christopher Worth ;' 

A Memoir of John Wilson, late Professor of Moral Philosophy in the University of 
Edinburgh. Compiled from Family Papers and other sources, by his daughter, 
Mbs. GORDON. Third Thousand. In 2 vols, crown 8vo, price 24s., with Por- 
trait, and graphic Illustrations. 

Chronicle of Gudrun ; 

A Story of the North Sea. Prom the mediaeval German. By EMMA LETHEB- 
BROW. With frontispiece by J. Nokl Paton, RS.A. New Edition for Toung 
People, price Os. 

Of the Ijight of Nature, 

A Discourse by NATHANIEL CULVERWELL, M.A. Edited by John Brown, 
D.D., with a critical Essay on the Discourse by John Cairns, D.D. 8vo, cloth, 128. 

Dainty Dishes. 

Receipts collected by Lady HARRIET ST. CLAIR. Sixth edition, with many 
new Receipts. 1 vol. crown 8vo. Price 7s. 6d. 

" Well worth buying, especially by that class of persons who, though their 
incomes are small, enjoy out-of-the-way and recherche delicacies." — Times. 

The ATiTiflia of the University of Edinburgh. 

By ANDREW DALZEL, formerly Professor of Greek in the University of Edin- 
burgh ; with a Memoir of the Compiler, and Portrait after Raebum. In 2 vols, 
demy 8vo, price 21s. 

Gisli the Outlaw. 

From the Icehmdic. By G. W. DASENT, D.C.L. 1 vol. small 4to, with BltiBtra- 
tions, price 7s. 6d. 

The Story of Burnt Njal ; 

Or, Life in Iceland at the end of the Tenth Century. From the Icelandic of the 
NJals Saga. By GEORGE WEBBB DASENT, D.C.L. In 2 vols. 8vo, with Hap 
and Plans, price 28s. 

Popular Tales from the 19'orse, 

With an Introductory Essay on the origin and difltision of Popular Tales. Second 
Edition, enhurged. By GEORGE WEBBE DASENT, D.C.L. Crown 8vo, lOs. 6d. 

Select Popular Tales from the IS'orse. 

For the use of Young People. By G. W. DASENT, D.C.L. New Edition, with 
Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 68. 

On the Application of Sulphurous Add Gas 

to the Prevention, Limitation, and Cure of Contagious Diseases. By JAMES 
DEWAR, M.D. Fourth edition, price Is. 

The Fifty Years' Struggle of the Scottish Covenanters, 

16S8-8& By JAMES DODDS. Third Edition, fc&^.«cX<;^\i[i«V&. 



EDMONSTON AlO) DOUGLAS, 



The Iiast Years of Mary of Iiorraine, 

1557 to 1560. By JAMES DODDS, author of < The Fifty Tears' Struggle of the 
Scottish CoTenAnters.' 

Memoir of Thomas Drummond, U.A., "FJRJLB^ ? 

Under-Secretary to the Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland, 1835 to 1840. By JOHN F. 
M'LENNAN, M.A. 1 vol demy 8yo, price 15s. 

Btodies in European Folitdos. 

By M. E. GRANT DUFF, Member for the Elgin District of Burghs. 1 voL 8vo. 
Price lOs. 6d. i 

" We have no hesitation in saying that there is no work in the English Language 
which has anything like the same value to persons who wish to understand the 
recent history and present position of the countries de8cnbed.*'—Soaurday Review. 

Inaugural Address 

Delivered to the University of Aberdeen, on his Listallation as Rector, March 22, 
1887, by MOUNTSTUART E. GRANT DUFF, Member for the Elgin District of 
Burghs. Price Is. 

IS'otes on Scotch Bankruptcy Iiaw and Practice. 

By GEORGE AULDJO ESSON, Accountant in Bankruptcy in Scotland. Second 
edition, price 2s. 6d. 

Earl's Ijegacy. 

By the Rbv. J. W. EBSWORTH. 2 vols, ex fcap. 8vo. Price 6s. 6d. 

Social Iiife in Former Days ; 

Chiefly in the Province of Moray. Dlustrated by letters and family papers. By 
E. DUNBAR DUNBAR, late Captam 21st Fusiliers. 2 vols, demy 8to., price 
19s. 6d. 

Veterinary Medicines ; their Actions and Uses. 

By FINLAY DUN. Third Edition, revised and enlarged. 8vo, price 12s. 

The Story of "Waldemar Krone's Youth, 

A Novel By H. F. EWALD. 2 vols, crown 8vo, price 16s. 

The Secret of Happiness. 

A NoveL By ERNEST FBYDEAU. 2 vols. fcap. 8vo, price 7s. 

Forest' Sketches. 

Deer-staUdng and other Sports in the Hi^^ilands fifty years ago. 8to, with Illus- 
trations by Gourlay Steell, price 158. 

Ii'Histoire d'Angleterre. Par M. lame fleury. ismo, cloth, 2s. 6d. 
I/Histoire de France. Par m. lam^ fleury. i8mo» cloth, 28, 6d. 



88 PRINCES STEEET, EDINBURGH. 



Christianity viewed in some of its Iieading Aspects. 

By Rev. A. L. R FOOTB, Author of 'Incidents in the Life of our Saviour.' Fcap., 
cloth, Ss. 

Frost and Fire; 

Natural Engines, Tool-Marks, and Chips, with Sketches drawn at Home and Abroad 
by a Traveller. Re-issue, containing an additional Chapter. In 2 vols. 8vo, with 
Maps and numeroas Illustrations on Wood, price 21s. 

" A very Turner among books, in the originality and delicious freshness of its 
style, and the truth and delicacy of the descriptive portions. For some four«nd- 
twenty years he has traversed h^ our northern hemisphere by the least frequented 
paths ; and everywhere, with artistic and philosophic eye, has found something to 
describe— here in tiny trout-stream or fleecy cloud, there in lava-flow or ocean 
current, or in the works of nature's giant sculptor— ice."— Beocter. 

Clinieal Medicine. 

Observations recorded at the Bedside, with Commentaries. By W. T. OAIRDNEB, 
M.D., Professor of the Practice of Physic in the University of Glasgow. 8vo, 742 
pp., 'with numerous Engravings on wood, 128. 6d. 

By the same Author, 

Medicine and Medical Education. i2mo, doth, price 2s. 6d; 
Clinical and Pathological Kotes on Pericarditis, svo, sewed, 

price Is. 

A Girl's Bomance. 

1 vol. ex. fcap. cloth, price 6s. 

CamiUe. 

By MADAME DE GASPARIN, Author of 'The Near and Heavenly Hoiixons.' 
1 voL fcap. Svo, price 3s. 6d. 

By the Seaside. 

By MADAMTO DE GASPARIN, Author of < The Near and Heavenly Horiwns.* 
1 voL fcap. Svo, price Ss. 6d. 

Great Harefield. 

A new Novel by a new Writer. 1 vol. small Svo^ price 12s. 

" A book with a great deal of cleverness in it Nearly all the satirical touGhea— 
and they sparkle everywhere— are keen, truthful, and brilliant."— £ftor. 

An Ecclesiastical History of Scotland, 

From the Introduction of Christianity to the Present Time. By GEORGE GRUB, 
A.M. In 4. vols. Svo, 42s. Fine Paper Copies, 52s. 6d. 

The Earlier Years of our Iiord's Ja£& on Earth. 

By the Rev. WILLIAM HANNA, D,D., LL.I>. Ttotea. Va:^. ^^^^-esssR.'^^ 



EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS, 



The Ministry in Qalilee. 

By the Rev. WILLIAM HANNA, D.D., LL.D. 1 voL ex. fcap. 8vo. 

The Iiast Day of our Iiord's Passion. 

By the Rev. WILLIAM HANNA, D.D., LL.D. 4eth thousand, extra fcap. 8to, 
price to. 

The Forty Days after our Iiord's Besurreotion. 

By the Rev. WILLIAM HANNA, D.D., LL.D. Extra fcap. 8yo, price 5s. 

The Passion Week. 

By the Rev. WILLIAM HANNA, D.D., LL.D. • Extra fcap. 8vo, price 6s. 

The Healing Art, the Bight Hand of the Church; 

Or, Practical Medicine an Essential Element in the Christian System. Crown 8vo 
cloth, price 6s. 

Hidden Depths. 

2 vols, crown 8vo, price 21s. 

** This book is not a work of fiction, in the ordinary acceptation of the term : if 
it were, it would bo worse than useless, for the hidden depths, of which it reveals 
a glimpse, are not fit subjects for a romance."— fV^oce. 

la'otes of a Cruise of HJS£.S. *Pawn' 

In the Western Pacific in the year 1862. By T. H. HOOD. Demy Svo, with 
numerous Illustrations from Photographs, price 15s. 

Homely Hints from the Fireside. 

By the author of * Little Things.* Cheap Edition, limp cloth. Is. 

Herminius. 

A Romance. By L R S. In 1 vol fcap. Svo, price 6s. 

Sketches of Early Scotch History. 

By COSMO INNES, F.S.A., Professor of History in the University of Edinburgh. 
1. The Church ; its Old Organisation, Parochial and Monastic. 2. Universities. 
S. Family History. Svo, price 16s. 

Concerning some Scotch Surnames. 

By COSMO INNES, F.S. A., Professor of History in the University of Edinbui^L 
1 voL small 4to, cloth antique, 6s. 

Death Scenes of Scottish Martyrs. 

By HENRY INGLia Square 12mo, cloth, price 6s. 



88 PRINCES STREET, EDINBURGH. 



The n'ew Picture Book. 

Pictorial Lessons on Form, Comparison, and Number, for Children under Seven 
Years of Age. With Explanations by NICHOLAS BOHNY. 36 oblong folio 
coloured Illustrations. Price 7s. 6d. 

Instructive Picture Books. 

Folio, 7s. 6d. each. 

" These Volumes are among the most instructive Picture-books we have seen, 
and we know of none better calculated to excite and gratify the appetite of the 
young for the knowledge of nature." — Times. 

I. 
The Instructive Picture Book. A few Attractive Lessons from the Natural 
History of Animals. By ADAM WHITE, late Assistant, Zoological Department, 
British Museum. With 58 folio coloured Plates. Seventh Edition, containing many 
new Illustrations by Mrs. Blackbuen, J. Stewart, Gourlay Steell, and others. 

IL 

The Instructive Picture Book. Lessons from the Vegetable World. By the 
Author of * The Heir of Redclyflfe,' * The Herb of the Field,' etc. Arranged by 
Robert M. Stark, Edinbuigh. New Edition, with many New Plates. 

ni. 

Instructive Picture Book. The Geographical Distribution of Animals, in a 
Series of Pictures for the use of Schools and Families. By the late Dr. Oreville. 
With descriptive letterpress by ADAM WHITE, late Assistant, Zoological De- 
partment, British Museum. 

The History of Scottisli Poetry, 

From the Middle Ages to the Close of the Seventeenth Century. By the late 
DAVID IRVING, LL.D. Edited by John Aitken Carlyle, M.D. With a Memoir 
and Glossary. Demy 8vo, 16s. 

The Circle of Christian Doctrine ; 

A Handbook of Faith, framed out of a Layman's experience. By Lord EINLOCH, 
one of the Judges of the Supreme Court of Scotland. Third and Cheaper Edition. 
Fcap. 8vo, 2s. 6d. 

Time's Treasure; 

Or, Devout Thoughts for every Day of the Year. Expressed in verse. By Lord 
EINLOCH Third and Cheaper Edition. Fcap. 8vo, price 3s. 6d. . 

Devout Moments. 

By Lord EINLOCH Price 6d. 

Studies for Sunday Evening. 

By Lord EINLOCH. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo, price 4s. 6d. 

The Philosophy of Ethics : 

An Analytical Essay. By SIMON S. LAURIE, A.M., Author of * The Fundamental 
Doctrine of Latin Syntax : being an Application of Psychology to TtwngptMg^* 
1 voL demy 8vo, price 6s. 



10 EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS, 



Supplemental Besoriptive Catalogrue of Ancient Ekx>tti8li Seala 
By UEXRT LAINO. 1 ToL 4to, proftisely fllustrated, price £3 : 8s. 

lilfe of Father Iiaeordaire. 

By DORA OREENWELL. 1 vol fcap. Svo. Price 6s. 

A Memoir of Iiady Anna Mackenzie, 

Countess of Balcarres, and afterwards of Aigyle, 1621-1706. By Lord LINDSAY, 

The Befbrm of the Church of Scotland 

Tn Worship, Government, and Doctrine. By ROBERT LBB, D.D., Professor of 
Biblical Criticism in the University of Edinburgh, and Minister of Oreyfriais. 
Part L Worship. Second Edition, fcap. Svo, price Ss. 

The Clerical Profession, 

Some of its Difficulties and Hindrances. By ROBERT LEE, D.D. Price 6d. 

The Early Baces of Scotland and their Monuments. 

By LncuT.-CoL. FORBES LESLIE. 2 vols, demy Svo, profusely Dlostrated, price 
S2S. 

" This learned and elaborate book presents the closest and most satisfactory 
investigation of the character of the primitive races who inhabited the British 
Islands yet given to the public. Whether the readers agree with Colonel Leslie or 
not, they must of necessity allow that he has produced the most complete book on 
this subject that has ever been published."— Daily News. 

Iiife in la'ormandy ; 

Sketches of French Fishing, Farming, Cooking, Natural History, and Politics, 
drawn ft'om Nature. By an Enqlish Resident. Q^iird Edition, 1 vol. ciown 
Svo, price 68. 

Specimens of Ancient Gaelic Poetry* 

Collected between the years 1512 and 1529 by the Rev. JAMES M<OREGOR, Dean 
of Lismoro— illustrative of the Language and Literature of the Scottish Highlands 
prior to the Sixteenth Century. Edited, with a Translation and Notes, by the Rev. 
Thomas Maclauchlan. The Introduction and additional Notes by William P. 
Skene. Svo, price 12s. 

The Development of Science among IN'ations. 

By Babon JUSTUS LIEBIO, F.R.S., President of the Royal Academy of Science, 
Member of the French Institute, etc. etc. Price Is. 

Iiittle EUa and the Fire-Eing, 

And other Fairy Tales. By M W., with Illustrations by Henbt Wabrbn. Second 
Edition. 16mo, cloth, 8s. 6d. Cloth extra, gilt edges, 48. 

Ijove and Duty. 

A Noyel Bj the Author of * Basil St. Jobn,* 1 voL crown Svo, price 12s. 



88 PRINCES STREET, EDINBURGH. 11 



Macvioar's (J. Q., D.D.) 

The Philosophy of the Beautipul ; price 6s. 6d. First Lines of Sodenge Sim- 
plified ; price 5s. Inquiry into Human Nature ; price 7s. 6d. 

Heroes of Discovery. 

By SAMUEL MOSSMAN, Author of ' Our Australian Colonies,* * China : its In- 
habitants,' etc. 1 vol. crown 8vo, price 5s. 

Medical Officers <of the Navy. 

Eyeri;hing about them. For the information of Medical Students, and of the Parents 
of Young Gentlemen intended for the Medical Profession. Price Is. 

The Correct Form of Shoes. 

Why the Shoe Pinches. A contribution to Applied Anatomy. By HERMANN 
MEYER, M.D., Professor of Anatomy in the University of Zurich. Tnuud&ted 
firom the German by John Stielinq Craio, L.R.C.P.B., L.RC.S.E. Fcap., 
sewed, 6d. 

The Herring : 

Its Natural History and National Importance. By JOHN M. MITCHELL 
F.R.SSA., F.S.A.S., F.RP.S., etc. Author of 'The Natural History of the Her- 
ring, considered in Connection with its Visits to the Scottish Coasts,' 'British 
Commercial Legislation,' ' Modem Athens and the Piraeus,' etc. With Six lUustiar 
tions, 8vo, price 12s. 

The Insane in Private Dwellings. 

By ARTHUR MITCHELL, A.M., M.D., Deputy Commissioner in Lunacy fbr Scot- 
land, etc. 8vo, price 4s. 6d. 

Ancient FUlar-Stones of Scotland : 

Their Significance and Bearing on Ethnology. By George Moobb, M.D. 1 ToL 
8vo, price 6s. 6d. 

Il'orth British Review. 

Published Quarterly. Price 6s. 

Befiections on the Relation of Recent Scientific Inqtdries 

to the Received Teaching of Scripture. By JAMES MONCEBIFP, Esq., M.P., 
LL.D., Dean of the Faculty of Advocates. Price Is. 

The Extension of the Sufi&age. 

By JAMES MONCREIFF, Esq., M.P., LL.D., Dean of the Faculty of Advocatei. 
Price Is. 

Biographical Arrnalfl of the Parish of Colinton. 

By THOMAS MURRAY, LL.D., Author of *The Literary History of Galloway, 
etc., eta Crown Svo, price 8s. 6d. 

A Wew-Year's Gift to Children. 

By the author of * John Halifax, Gentleman.' WlUi ISmsi^xt&cn^^^^'^^^^-^ 



12 EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS. 



Man : Where, Whence, and Whither P 

IS*'inK a ii\tiiu'e at Man in his Natural-History Relations. By DAVID FAGB, 
LL.D. 1 vul. fcap. 8vo, price 38. 6d. 

* At the Seaside.' 

NiUtW Criticae ; Occasional Papers written at the Seaside. By BHIBLEY. Crown 
8vo, price OS. 

The Bishop's WaUc and The Bishop's Times. 

By ORWELL. Fcap. 8vo, price 6s. 

Popular Genealogists 

Or, The Art of Pedigrec-niaking. 1 voL crown Svo, price 4s. 

Beminisoences of Scottish Iiife and Character. 

By E. B. RAMSAY, M.A., LL.D., F.RaE., Dean of Edinborgh. Fifteenth 
Edition, ])rice Is. 6d. 

" The Dean of Edinburgh has here produced a book for railway reading of the 
very first class. The persons (and they are many) who can only under such circum- 
stances devote ten minutes of attention to any page, without the certainty of a 
dizzy or stupid headache, in every i>age of this volume will find some poignant 
anecdote or trait which will last them a good half-hour for after-laughter : one of 
the pleasantest of human sensations." — Athenceum. 

\* The original Edition in 2 vols, with Introductions, price 12s., and the Six- 
teenth Edition in 1 voL cloth antique, price 6s., may be had. 

Memoirs of Frederick Perthes ; 

Or, Literary, Religious, and Political Life in Germany firom 1789 to 1843. By C. T. 
PERTHES, Professor of Law at Bonn. Crown 8vo, cloth, 6s. 

Scotland imder her Early Kings. 

A History of the Kingdom to the close of the 13th century. By E. WILLLiM 
ROBERTSON, in 2 vols. 8vo, cloth, 36s. 

Doctor Antonio 

A Tale. By JOHN RUFFINL Cheap Edition, crown 8vo, boards, 2s. 6d. 

Ijorenzo Benoni ; 

Or, Passages in the Life of an Italian. By JOHN RUFFINI. With. Illustrations. 
Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 5s. Cheap Edition, crown 8vo, boards, 2s. 6d. 

A Quiet IN'ook in the Jura. 

By JOHN RUFFINI, Author of 'Doctor Antonio,' etc. 1 vol. extra fcap. Svo, 
price 7s. 6d- 

The Salmon 

Its History, Position, and Prospects. By ALEX RUSSEL.' Svo, price 7b. 6d. 

Horeb and Jerusalem. 

By the Rev. GEORGE SANDIB. Svo, with Illustrations, price lOs. 6d. 



88 PRINCES STREET, EDINBURGH. 13 

Our Summer in the Harz Forest. 

By A SCOTCH FAMILY. 1 voL fcap. 8vo, price 6s. 

Twelve Years in China : 

The People, the Rebels, and the Mandarins, by a British Resident. With coloured 
Illustrations. Second Edition. With an Appendix. Crown 8vo, cloth, price 
10s. 6d. 

A Handbook of the History of Philosophy. 

By Dr. ALBERT SCHWEGLER. Translated and Annotated by J. Hutchison 
Stirlino, LL.D., Author of the * Secret of HegeL' Crown 8vo, price 5s. 

John Eeble : 

An Essay on the Author of the * Christian Year.' By J. C. SHAIRP, Professor 
of Humanity, St. Andrews. 1 voL fcap. 8vo, price 3s. 

The Sermon on the Moimt. 

By the Rev. WALTER C, SMITH, Author of *The Bishop's Walk, and other 
Poems, by Orwell,' and < Hymns of Christ and Christian Life.' 1 vol. crown 8vo, 
price 6s. 

On Archaic Sculpturings of Cups and Cirdes upon Stones 

and Rocks in Scotland, England, etc. By Sir J. Y. SIMPSON, Bart., M.D., D.C.L., 
Vice-President of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, etc. etc. 1 voL smaU 4to, 
with Illustrations, price 21s. 

The Law and Practice of Heraldry in Scotland. 

By GEORGE SETON, Advocate, M.A., Oxon, F.S.A., Scot 8vo, with numerous 
Illustrations, 25s. 

\* A few copies on large paper, half-bound, 42s. 
' Cakes, Leeks, Puddings, and Potatoes.' 

A Lecture on the Nationalities of the United Kingdom. By GEORGE SETON, 
Advocate, M.A., Oxon, etc Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo, sewed, price 6d. 

The Boman Poets of the Republic. 

By W. Y. SELLAR, M. A., Professor of Humanity in the University of Edinburgh, 
and formerly Fellow of Oriel College, Oxford. 8vo, price 128. 

The Pour Ancient Books of Wales, 

Containing the Eymric Poems attributed to the Bards of the Sixth century. Edited, 
with an Introduction and Notes, by WILLIAM F. SKENE. S vols. 8vo, with 
Illustrations. 

My Life and Times, 1741-1818. 

Being the Autobiography of the Rev. THOS. SOMERVILLE, Minister of Jedbnigh, 
and one of His Mi^^^y's Chaplains. Crown 8vo, price ^)ft. 



I I 



I 1// .. , 



• I'll f '. '.lif^t V '_— ,— 



^ ' ■■ •• • • .1:.:. ■ i. •-: 
I'M. il.| ;•.?., ^.... V-.: - . .* '.'.. 






-• ^•li.tu or tho Wigzcirz. >r»^ 



iiiil .Sorr» Mr. >:lf""!rli 



^u«, nrii'o 4s. :i 









88 PEINCES STREET, EDINBUKGH. 15 



What is Sabbath-BreaMng P 

8vo, price 2s. 

The Dynamical Theory of Heat. 

By P. G. TAIT, Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University of Edlnbui^L 
1 vol. fcap. 8vo. 

Day-Dreams of a Schoolmaster. 

By D'ARCY W. THOMPSON. Second Edition. Pcap. 8vo, price 6s. 

Ancient Leaves ; 

Or Metrical Renderings of Poets, Greek and Roman. By D'ARCY W. THOMPSON. 
Fcap. 8vo, 6s. 

Sales Attici : 

Or Proverb Wisdom of the Athenian Drama. By D'ARCY WBNTWORTH 
THOMPSON, Professor of Greek in Qneen's College, Galway. Fcap. 8vo. Price Os. 

Antiquities of Cambodia. 

By J. THOMSON, F.R.G.S., F.E.S.L. Sixteen Photographs, with Ea5)lanatory 
Text. Imperial 4to, handsomely bonnd, half-morocco. Price Four Guineas. 

An Angler's Bambles among the Bivers and Iiochs of Scot- 
land. By Thomas Tod Stoddabt, Author of "The Angler's Companion." 1 vol. 
crown 8vo, price 9s. 

Travels by Umbra. 

8vo., price 10s. 6d. 

Hotch-Pot. 

By UMBRA. An Old Dish with New Materials. Fcap 8vo, price Sa. 6d. 

Iiife of Dr. John Iteid» 

Late Chandos Professor of Anatomy and Medicine in the University of St. Andrewfl. 
By the late GEORGE WILSON, M.D. Fcap. 8vo, cloth, price 3s. 

Besearches on Colour-Blindness. 

With a Supplement on the danger attending the present sjrstem of Railway and 
Marine Coloured Signals. By the late GEORGE WILSON, M.D. 8vo, 6a, 

Dante's— The Inferno. 

Translated line for line by W. P. Wilkiz, Advocate. Fcap. 8vo, price te. 

Westfield. 

A View of Home Life during the American War. 1 voL cx<wrK^%^^^'«*»s*^'*s^ ^^- 



IG EDMOXSTON USD DOUGLAS, 88 PSINCES STREET. 



ODDS AND EHDS— Price 6d.£<Kh. 

Now Ready, VoL L, in Cloth, price 48. 6d., containing Nos. 1-10. 

1. Bketohes of Highland Character— 

HiiRRr Fmimrrh and Drovers. 

2. Convicts. 

By a PKAr.TicAL Hand. 

8. Wayside Thoughts of an Asophophilosopher 

By I)'.\UCY W. THOMPSON. No. 1. Rainy Weather; or, the Phflosopb) 
<»f H<»rniw. 0<M)HEHKiN ; or, Uie Fhilosopliy of Horror. Ta Deum LAUDAurs 
or, the PhiloRophy of Joy. 

4. The Enterkin. 

IJyJOIIN HItOWN, M.D. 

6. Wayside Thoughts of an Asophophilosopher. 

By D'AUCY W. THOMl'SON. No. 2. AasES— History— Plaques. 

6. Penitentiaries and Beformatories. 

7. 19'otes fi*om Paris; or. Why are Frenchmen and EngUsI: 

luen different T 

8. Essays by an Old Man. 

No. 1. In Memoriam—V ANITAS Vanitatum— Friends. 

9. Wayside Thoughts of an Asophophilosopher. 

By D'ARCY W. TIIOMPSON. No. 8. Not Godless, but Godly ; a Triangul 
Treatikk on Education. 

10. The Influence of the Heformation on the Scottish Charactc 

By J. A. FROUDE, Author of the History of England.* 



Now Ready, VoL II., in Cloth, price 4s. 6d., containing Nos. 11-19. 

IL The Cattle Plague. 

By LYON PLAYPAIR, C.B., LL.D., F.R8., etc 

12. Bough n'ights' Quarters. 

By One of the People who have Roughed it. 

18. Iietters on the Education of Young Children. 

By 8. G. O. 

14. The Stormontfleld Piscicultural Experiments. 185d-18( 

By ROBERT BUIST. 

15. A Tract for the Times. 

16. Spain in 1866. 

17. The Highland Shepherd. 

By the Author of * The Two Queys.' 

18. The Doctrine of the Correlation of Forces : its Devek 

ment and Evidence. By the Rev. JAMES CRANBROOK, Edinburgh. 

19. *BibUomania.» 

20. A Tract on Twigs, and on the best way to Bend thm 



