
IMAGE EVALUATION 
TEST TARGET (MT-3) 




^.. 




1/ /^^ 






1.0 



1.1 



l£i|21 12.5 

jjj ^^ ■■■ 

itt flU i2.2 
12.0 



1^ 



u 



M 



11^^ niii^s i^B 




FhotograiJbic 

Sdmces 

Corporalton 




23 WIST MAIN STREIT 

WnSTIR.N.Y. 145M 

(71«)t72-4S03 






;«. 



CIHM/ICMH 

Microfiche 

Series. 



CIHIVi/ICMH 
Collection de 
microfiches. 




Canadian Inatitute for Historical IMicroraproductions / Inatitut Canadian da microraproductiona hiatoriquaa 




Technical and Bibliographic Notaa/'Notaa tochniquaa at bibliographiquaa 



Tha Inatituta haa anamptad to obtain tha baat 
original copy availabia for filming. Faaturaa of thia 
copy which may ba bibliographically uniqua, 
which may altar any of tha imagaa in tha 
raproduction. or which may aignificantiv changa 
tha uauai mathod of filming, ara chacltad balow. 



□ Colourad covara/ 
Couvartura da couiaur 



r^ Covara damagad/ 



D 



D 



D 

D 



D 



Couvatura andommagAa 



Covara raatorad and/or laminatad/ 
Couvartura raatauria at/ou pailicuiia 



□ Ccvar titia miaaing/ 
La titra da couvartura manqua 

r~n Colourad mapa/ 



Cartaa gtographiquaa wi eoulaur 

Colourad ink (i.a. othar than blua or black)/ 
Encra da couiaur (i.a. autra qua blaua ou noira) 



□ Colourad plataa and/or illuatrationa/ 
Planer 



D 



Planchaa at/ou illuatrationa m\ couiaur 



Bound with othar matarial/ 
Rali4 avac d'autraa documanta 



Tight binding may cauaa ahadowa or dhtortion 
along intarior margin/ 

Laroliura tarria paut cauaar da i'ombra ou da la 
dlatorakMi la long da la marga intirlaura 

Blank laavaa addad during raatoration may 
appaar within tha taxt. Whanavar poaaibia. thaaa 
hava baan omittad from filming/ 
II aa paut qua cartainaa pagaa blanchaa ajoutiaa 
lora d'una raatauration apparaiaaant dana la taxta. 
mala, iorsqua cala itait poaaibia, caa pagaa n'ont 
paa «t« fiimiaa. 

Additional commanta:/ 
Commantairaa supplimantairaa: 



L'Inatitut a microfilm* la maillaur axamplaira 
qu'il l^i a 4ti poaaibia da aa procurer. Laa ditaiia 
da cat axamplaira qui sont paut-Atra uniquaa du 
point dik .'ua bibliographiqua. qui pauvant modifiar 
una imaga raproduita. ou qui pauvant axigar una 
modificatioti dana la mithoda normala da filmaga 
aont indiquAa ci-daaaoua. 



pn Colourad pagaa/ 



D 



kagaa da couiaur 

Pagaa damagad/ 
Pagaa andommagtea 

Pagaa raatorad and/oi 

Pagaa raataurAaa at/ou paliiculiaa 

Pagaa diacolourad. atainad or foxai 
Pagaa dicoloriaa, tachat^aa ou piqutea 

Pagaa datachad/ 
Pagaa ditach4aa 

Showthrough> 
Tranaparanca 

Quality of prir 

Quallt* inAgala da I'imoraaaion 

Includaa aupplamantary matarii 
Comprand du matirial auppMmantaira 

Only adition available/ 
Saula Mition diaponibia 



r-~\ Pagaa damaged/ 

pn Pagaa raatorad and/or laminated/ 

rri Pagaa diacolourad. atainad or foxed/ 

rn Pagaa datachad/ 

r^ Showthrough/ 

|~n Quality of print varif -: ^ 

pn Includaa aupplamentary material/ 

rn Only edition available/ 



Pagaa wholly or partially obacurad by errata 
aiipa. tiasuaa, etc., hava been refilmed to 
enaure tha beat poaaibia image/ 
Laa pagaa totaiament ou partieiiemant 
obacurciaa par un fauillet d'arrata. una palura, 
etc.. ont M filmiea A nouveau da fa^on A 
obtenir la meilleure imaga poaaibia. 



Thia item ia filmed at the reduction ratio checked below/ 

Ce document eat film* au taux da rAd'Jction indiqui ci-deaaoua. 

10X 14X 18X 22X 



28X 



30X 















y 



























12X 



ItX 



aox 



24X 



28X 



32X 



Th« copy film«d h«r« has bMn reproducsd thanks 
to tha genarosity of: 

SamiiMiry of Qutbtc 
Library 



L'axamplaira film* f ut raprbduit grAca i la 
g4n4rosit* da: 

Stminairt dt Quebec 
BibliothAqua 



Tha imagas appaaring hara ara tha bast quality 
posaibia conaldaring tha condition and laglblllty 
of ttia original copy and In kaaping with tha 
filming contract spacif Icatlona. 



Original copias In printad papar covers ara fllmad 
baginning with tha front eovar and anding on 
tha last paga with a printad or llluatratad impraa- 
slon, or tha back covar whan approprlata. All 
othar original copias ara fllmad baginning on tha 
first paga with a printad or llluatratad impraa- 
sion, and anding on tha laat paga with a prirtad 
or llluatratad imprasslon. 



Tha last racordad frama on aach microficha 
shall contain tha symbol — »> (moaning "CON- 
TINUED"). or tha symbol V (moaning "END"), 
whichavar applias. 

Maps, platas, charts, ate, may ha fllmad at 
diffarant reduction ratios. Thos'i too iarga to ba 
antiraly includad in ona axposur^ ara fllmad 
baginning in th« uppar laft hand corrar, laft to 
right and top to bottom, aa many framas aa 
raquirad. Tha following diagrama illuatrata tha 
method: 



Lea imagea sulvantaa ont «t« raproduitea avac la 
plua grand soln, compta tenu de la condition at 
do la nattet« de I'exemplaira film*, et en 
conformity avac lea condltlona du contrat de 
fllmaga. 

Lea axemplairea orlginaux dont la couvarture en 
papier eet ImprimAe aont filmte an commen9ant 
par la premier plat at en terminent soit par la 
darnlAre paga qui comporta une empreinte 
d'lmpreasion ou d'illuatration, soit par la second 
plat, eel jn le caa. Toua lea autrea axemplairea 
orlginaux aont fllmAa en commen^ant par la 
pramlAre paga qui comporta une empreinte 
d'lmpresaion ou d'illuatration et en terminent par 
la darnlAre page qui comporte une telle 
empreinte. 

Un dee symbolaa auivantt apperattra sur la 
darnlAre imege de chsquo microfiche, selon ie 
caa: la aymbola — »• signifie "A SUtVRE". le 
symbols y signifie "FIN". 

Les cartes, planches, tableaux, etc., peuvent *tre 
fllmia * des taux da iMuction diffirants. 
Loraqua la document eat trop grand pour itre 
rsproduit en un aaul cl{-:h«, ii est film* A partir 
da Tangle aup4rieur gauche, de geuche k droite, 
et de haut en baa, en prenent le noir.bre 
d'imagea nteassalra. Les diagrammes suivants 
illustrant la m*thoda. 



1 2 3 




1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 



1* 



[1 ' * 



«-fV' 



t'- 









' 7 



3^' 











Jilltpi .iiuiyi,iiii.iJi)|^i, 



^tj^mm I y 



IjiliBPiMiijiiiuiiiiiui/ij. ui.ir 



(J^^v^i;;^ 



THE DOMINION 



HOME COg^«yOK, 

Several Hundred EiceDent Befi^ ^*^# 



SELECTED AND TRIED WITH OBBAT CABS, AND WITH A VIBW TO BE 
USED BT THOSE WHO BBOABD BOONOBfT, AKD COKTAIKIN 
nSFOBTAMT INFOBXATION ON THE ABBANOEMEMT AM: 
WEIX-OBDEBINO Or THE KITCHEN. 



THE WHOLE BASED Olf MANY YEARS OF EXP 



BY A THOROUGH HOUSEWIFE. 




ZXjTiXTS'rZlA.'Z'SD SfTTXia. EXJGI-RA.VTXa-GI-S. 



TORONTO: 
PUBLISHED BY ADAM MILLER, 

kSn FOB SALE BY ALL BOOESELLEBS. 
1868. 



PREFACE, 



. 



■,<■ 



The present work has been designed and written entirely 
with a view to practical utility, and for the information of 
tnose young Housekeepers who have not had the benefit of 
regular instructions in the affairs of the kitchen. My reason 
for attempting to compose such a work, may be explained in 
a few words. All the cookery books, both of- an old and 
new date, which I have been able to procure, appear to be 
written chiefly as remembrancers for professed cooks, or as 
guides in the extensive kitchen of the wealthy, where economy 
IS not supposed to be a matter of importance. The greater 
part of their recipes are consequently written on a principle of 
lavish expenditure, and refer to a great number of things that 
are never seen at the tables of the frugal and industrious. Ex* 
cellent, therefore, as many of these works are, they are gener- 
ally unsuitable for popular and practical use ; young or unex- 
perienced persons who have occasion to consult them upon 
emergencies, uniformly complain that they cannot understaiid 
them, and that, if they did, they could not afford to follow 
them as guides. It is with the humble hope of (at least in 
eonie measure) remedying these deficiencies that the present 



PRCFACC 



work !s presoated to the publio. It has, I have said, b^ oi 
designed ejcpressly for the use of housekeepers ^ho study 
simplicity and economy in the preparation of food, and who 
require explicit directions for their guidance. Every recipe^" 
every advice — every little piece of information^ is the result of 
person. I experlmce. I have 'set down nothing on trust, or merely 
because others have said it ; and in all parts have endeavored 
to write in so plain a manner — detailing one by one every step in 
the process of preparing the various dishes — that any inexpe- 
rienced person, I should think, could find no difficulty both ia 
comprehending the directions and acting upon them. 

It v% oiild have been very easy to extend the work to double 
or treble its present size, by adding a moss of miscellaneous 
recipes usually appended to works professing to inculcate do* 
inestic economy. But I judged it to be preferable to present 
an useful and cheap rather than a bulky work ; and as it is. I 
believe that nothing of the least consequence has been omitted 

It may not however be out of place here to announce ttial 
the authoress has in preparation a " Home Keceipt Book" 
which she designs to be a complete manual for all that relates 
to House cleaning — Dying — Repairing — Home made bever- 
ages — accidents— emergencies — the sick room — r% medies — and 
all the thousand and one things that the head of a family re- 
quires to know. 



INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. 



. 



Cookery is an art upoii which so much of our daily com 
fort and health depends, that it is of the highest importance 
that it be well performed. Every housewife may not be able 
to procure the finest kinds of food, but every one has it in 
her power to make the most of that which she does procure. 

By a certain degree of skill and attention, very humble fare 
may be dressed in such a manner that it will almost rival the 
most expensive dishes, in both savouriness and nutritiousness 
A good housewife suffers nothing to be lost or spoiled. Mere 
scraps which a careless individual would perhaps throw 
away, are put to a proper use, and, by means of certain 
auxiliary seasoning, brought to table in a new and attractive 
guise. Even if little or nothing be absolutely saved by these 
economical arrangements, the dressing of food in a tasteful 
manner is a point of some importance. When a dish has a 
slovenly appearance, is smoked, underdone, or prepared with 
rancid or unclean seasoning, both the eye and the appe- 
tite are offended, which is a serious evil in itself, independently 
of the injury which may possibly be done co the stomach of the 
eater. In every respect therefore, it is consistent with good 
judgment to prepare food for the table in the most tastefu] 
and agreeable 



6 



IIOHR OOOK BOOK. 



Another euentloJ point in cookery is aUetttion. Many por* 
Rurs think they have done all thut is necessary, whun they have 
fairly oominenued or set a-going any particular procens in cook- 
ing, they Bcem to imagine that they may sufoly leave a roast to 
roast by itself, or leave a pot with broth to boil by itsulf, and 
that they have only to go bank to the fire at a certain time, and 
that they will find the thing ready for dishing. Now, this kind 
of inattention is certain to spoil the best meat ever put to fire. 

Some processes require much less attention than others, but 
none can be properly performed if left long to itself. 

A good cook is pretty frequent in her visits to the fire to see 
how the operatiim of dressing is going on, and seize the prop- 
er moment in giving her assistance. 

A kitchen should always be well furnished; there is no neces- 
sity that it should be profusely so, but there should be a sufidoi- 
ency of every thing which can aid in producing the dishes pre- 
paring, with the success which is so essential to the gratifica- 
tion of the palate. A good workman cannot work well with bad 
tools, neither can good cooks do justice to their proficiency 
if they possess not the necessary utensils suitable to the various 
modes of cooking. And when this important point has been 
realized, cleaniiness in every article used should be scrupulously 
observed ; no utensil should be sufiered to be put away dirty, 
it not only injures the article itself materially, to say nothing 
of the impropriety of the habit, but prevents its readiness for 
use on any sudden occasion. No good cook or servant would 
be guilty of such an act; those who are, do so either from lazi- 
ness or want of system, or a nature naturally dirty ; if a very 
strong hint will not sufiice, it is of little use speaking out, for 
•t would be the result of a bad habit, that no talking in the 
world would cure. A servant who is inherently dirty or 
slovenly, should never bo retained, it is better and easier to 
change frequently until the mistress is suited, however unpleac 
sant frequent changes may prove, than Quixotically attempt 



BOMR COOK BOOK. 7 

to cure a peraon of iliis dencv iption. Gleanlinem it the most 
esbential ingredient in the art of cooking, and at any personal 
sacrifice should be maintained in the kitchen. 

In furnishing a kitchen there should be everything likely to 
be required, but not one article more than is waited ; unne* 
cessary profusion creates a litter ; a deficiency too oflen sacri 
fices the perfection of a dish, there should be a suffioienoy and 
no more. 

The following arttoles, of which we hare giyen engrarings, are 
reqnisite, and may be procored at any firit-olass Housekeeper's For- 
ni^iing store. 



1 IVqffle JFVimacfc— A Tery in^^ni- 
ous article, making four good-sized 
waffles with less labor than is required 
in making one with the ordinary iron. 




Waffle Furnace. 




2 Chafing Di^ with alcohol lamp, to keep 
steaks hot, or to cook oysters, tenison, matf- 
ton, Ac, on the table- 




, 3 Lignumvitae Mortar and Pertte.— Th» adultera- 
tion of ground spices, makes this an important article 
where ^od spices are wanted. 



^ 



■(■^BVRPi^«i«m;miiiiii*,«,l«%iqHK' «'q^7^n||f'M i'iii»*iniiipi|||p|ippvppwniii .nv ' m'vm i . ipniiijiinfr"- ■"•!■ ■ 



8 



BOMB OOOX BOOK. 




4 Whip C^um. — For making wh^^k }n«m 
syllabub, &o. 



5 Kmfe^Uaning Madiine, — Bj the 
use of whidi fauTes need never be 
put in water, and are kept bright 
with less time or trouble than in the 
old fashioned waj. 




6 Water Filter— Tor purifying cistern water for cook- 
ing or table use. 



J.., 




7 Wire DUh Covers. — To cover meats, 
pastry, miUc, butter, &c, from dust^ flie^ 
&c., in the pantry or on the table. 



v'i 



1 



Wire J)i9h Covert, 



nollF. COOK BOOK. 







ft Jci Cream Freezer and MoiUda. 




8 Patent Ice Cream Freezer* 
— By which Creams, Ices Ac, 
can be frozen fit for table oae 
in a yery few^ minutes. The 
forms are easily n^anaged 'nd 
now coming intcgOnerbl fa 
milyuao. 



9 




9 The Japanned Tin Boxes keep cake, bread. 
&c, perfectly freeh without the undesirable 
moisture of the stone jar. 



N.^ 



1 




It Tea and Coffee Caddict, 




11 The Spice Boa?,-'ILa» six ec parate boxes 
that take out, so that whole or ground epicc^ 
may be kept nice and separate. 



10 



HOME OOOK BOOK. 




13 



12 French Julienne MUU-^lo cat into fio 
parings all kinds of vegietables for soup. 




13 French Sutter Jbrcer.— There are 12 
different forms to each, that givo an infinite 
variety to this decorative manner of sorvii^ 
butter. 



;oo 




14 Coffee Roaster. — To each pound of oofifee 
pu one table-spoonful of water. The coffee 
will thoroughly roast without being bumo<1. 





15 Sauce Pan and Potato Steamer* 



IC Butter Pat in Case. — This gives the batter a handsome 
fonu and print at the same time. 



BOMB OOOE BOOK. 



11 



in 



12 

lite 
log 



flfee 
ffee 




17 

17 Soup Digester. — The great im- 

Sortance of this valuable utensil the 
Hgester not only to poor faniilies, but 
to the public in gcnerid, in producing a 
lai^er quantity of whotesoiQe and nou- 
rishing food, by a much clieftper me- 
thod than has ever been hitherto ob- 
tained, is a matter of such serious and 
interesting consideration, as cannot be 
too earnestly recommended to those 
who make eccaomy in the support of 
their families an object of their atten- 
Soup Digester. tion. The chief, and indeed the only 

thing necessary to be done, is to direct a proper mode of using it to 
most advantage ; and this mode is both simple and easy. Care must 
be taken in filling the digester, to leave room enough for the steam to 

Eass ofif through the valve at the top of the cover. This may be done 
y filling the digester only three parts full of water and bruised bones 
or meat, which it is to be noticed are all to be put in together. It 
must then be placed near a slow fire, so as only to simmer ^more heat 
injures the quality,) and this it must do for the space of eight or ten 
hours. After this has been done, the soup is to be strained through 
a hair sieve or cullender, in order to separate any bits of bones. The 
soup is then to be put into the digester again, and after whatever 
vegetables, spices, &c., are thought necessary are added, the whole is 
to be well boiled together for an hour or two, and it will be then fit 
for immediate use. In putting on the lid of the digester, take care 
that a mark, thus (X) on the Ud, is opposite to a similar one on the 
digester. The digester may also be obtained to contain from four 
quarts to ten gallons. There are also saucepan ana stewp&n digesters 
to hold from one to eight quarts. 




18 Roasting Screen and Joel.— The screen 
adapted to the ranges and cooking stoves i 
use. The jack is wound up and runs so 
the meat constantly turning till cooked. 




12 



nOMK COOK BOOK. 




19 Chset or Upright Refrigerau/r 
The door on the side insures venti* 
lation, and the closet form is moat 
oonvcnient to arrange dishes. 



20 Fish Scissors.— YoT cutting and trimming fish. 



21 French Bake Pan.— Of wrought iron, to pal 
fire or embers on the cover if needful. 




22 Paient Ice Breaker. — 
To break ice for table use, 
and for making ice cieam. 




23 Cheese Toaster.-- To make Welsh Rarebit; 
with double bottom for hot water« 



\H 



'au/r 
renti- 
moBt 



ish. 



> pat 



er.— 
use, 

m. 



BOMR COOK BOOK. 



18 



24 




24 Charlotte Ruaa Pan«d--OvaI shape, and nfoo to 
bake any other kind of cake. 



25 




25 fV*A Kettle.- With 
itrainer, to boil fish and take 
it out whole. 



Fiah KettU$, variout §ite». 
20 




26 Drench Basting 5j)oon«.--Decp and 
with side handles. 



27 Russia Iron Roll, or Corn Cake Ptn,— 
Giyes a handsome bruwn soft under-crust. 



28 Bnamdled Preserving Pan, — Fop bwoo* 
meats, jellies, marmuladc, &c. 



29 



»t( 




29 French Milk Sauce Pans.—To boll milk, 
cook custards, &c., without boiling over, by an 
arrangement of Tahes in the lid. 



u 



HOMB OCOK BOOK. 



10 




30 Copper Cake fbrm.— To bake cako Tor 



31 Soap Stone Griddle —To bake cnkcs with 
out grease or smell. 



32 Marble Slab, and Marble RcUing Pin. 
— Pastry made with these is light and Haky, 
from its being cold. 



33 Gravy Strainer, 

34 Sotip Strainer, 




Copper Stew Pan, — Turned inside. 



86 




36 Egg Coddler. — To cook eggs on the breakfa&t 
table. 



UJMK CX)OJL BOOK. 



Id 



37 



i for 



irith 






Pin. 



ide. 



Lfast 




37 YTin^ Cboter.— For eodiog boti es of 
rine, && 



38 /eUj^ <S^ra77t^.— Is made double and fiHetl 
in with hot water, this heat keeps the mass liiu 
pid and a much greater amount of jcllj is ma<7 j 
from the same materials. 



39 40 

39 Ala Mode Needle.-'Whh split end to 
draw in strips of fat pork, bacon, &c, iiico 

— ' beef for a-la-moding. 

40 Larding NeedlC'—Same for poultry, game, &c. 

41 

^^^^^^^^^^ Ftesh Fork, — To take ham, boilea meat, 
''^^ ' *" &C. from the pot. 



42 Sausage Meat Cutter.— WxVL cut font 
pounds of meat per minute for sausagea 
hash, &c 





Iron handle, stoel blade Chop Knife* 



16 



HOME OOOK BOOK. 




45 



44 Game and Chicken Cat' 
ten, — With long handles and 
short blades. 



45 Bread Slicer.— With giiage to sliov 
bread uiuformly any desired thickness. 



46 

»M« " ^>» >. 46 F)rench Decorating- Knife. — To make flowers 
of carrots, turnips, beets, &c. 




47 



48 



47 B-ench Chop Knife. — Heavy, to cut 
through small bones. 



,, I . 48 Erench Saw Knife. — To cut ham, cot 

,mi-mM>MmMr*'^^ through bones, joints, &c 



49 




50 



51 



48 Boning Knife, — ^To bone turkey, ham, 
beef, &c 

49 Beefsteak Pounder. — To make steak ten- 
der, and potato masher on the other end. 



50 Beefsteak Tonga. — To turn a steak, to 
avoid puncturing holes with a fork, which 
lets the juice escape. 




Oval Pot, — For boiling ham^ coruo J beef &c 



itriflMBr^JtlirMavtiH 



mil 



HOME COOK BOCK. 



w 




Porcelain Lemon Smieezer, — To presenre th« 
fine oil of the lemun that is usu&llj absorbed h? 
the wooden squeezer. 



53 






53 Fanaj Patty Pans. — For baking oma 
mental tea cakes. 




: tcn- 



f&o 




64 Oval Omelet Pan, 



65 




£6 




57 




65 Boxwood Scnib-bnish, — To clean beau 
tifnlly unpainted wood, table tops, meat and 
pastry boards. 



5G Fry Pan. 




57 Vegetable Slicer, — To slice potatoes, to 
fry and fricasce, green corn from the cob, cu- 
cumbers yegetaUes for soup, cabbage, dried 
beef, &c. 



58 Felt Jelly Pas- — 1& seamless and strains jelly hand 
somcly. 




BOMB COOK BOOK. 



50 Wooden Bread Dvugh and Scrapa 
For mixing bread. 



60 Reyolying Enamelled Gridiron witk 
fluted iMuni to conyoy the grayy to the cup. 



61 Ice mallet with pick that slidea into 
the handle. 



62 Wire com popper, a half tea cup full of 
dry pop com will M the popper by being agit 
ated oyer the fire. 




63 Water cooler, filled in with charcoal, preservea 
ihe ice and keeps water icy cold. — The water is 
kept cooler than the atmosphere without ice. 




64 Sardine opener, to open tin boxes of bar* 
dines, presenred meats, preserres &o. 



65 Double wire oyster gridiron to broil ojstcrs, chops 
cutlets, steaks, toast bread &e. 



J 



HOME OOOK BOOK. 



IV 



ipa 



60 



67 



I 



ip. 



into 



I of 



rve« 
' is 



Af* 



C6 Wire pea or Tegetable ooiler, for peas, beana 

rrains 



^U^^k <^ce, boiU dry and wlien taken out no grains ani 

^3LW<^mW 67 Tea BoUer.^The leaves are put into the 
ball and then the ball into the tea pot, the tea steeps without having 
the leaves poured into the cup. 



68 




68 Ftat egg^hip.'^Tkd best shape 
and easily cleaoea. 



Egg JVhip, various pattenu. 



69 




70 




69 Pudding Moidd^—'Who likes boiled pudding? 
can have it dry and light if cooked in one of these 
moulds. 



70 French Ovtd Meat Pie JfowW.— Ojwna 
at one end. 



7 1 Pastry Cutter, — ^Various patterns. 



72 Jelly or Blanc Mange Blottui- 



lee Cream and Jell$ Mould 



20 



BOHX COOK BOOK, 



73 




^ 73 Plaied Flnh Carver and fbrAr.--Cfefii 

^<lP^J alf o to fCTTO oflparagiis, buckvrh«at caVea. Ha 



74 




74 Improved Weighings Hitlauc^ 



76 



11 — trfmnrrmTrttil 




75 Puree Preeser.-^Tot pressing rcgetablcs 
for soups, pulping fish, &c 







76 Egg Poacher,~-V>nak an egg iucaclicnp and cub 
mcrse the whole in hot water. 



Egg Potuthar, 



77 




77 French Sugar Scoop, 



BOMB COOK BOOK. 









SI 




78 Farina Boiler DomWa— Place water in the out* 
er boiler and cook the farina, custard, com sUrch 
imlk, AC., in the inner one. 




79 Meal Safe.— To proteof UkxI t'win 
>ce, inficcts, &c. 



mice 



iif.at Safe, of utood and wire. 




23 



HOMK COOK BOOK. 



MARKETING : 

AND ON THE CHOICE OF VARIOUS ARTICLES OF DIET 

To Choose Beef. — Good ox beef hoB an open grain, and yields easilj 
to the pressure of the finger ; it is smooth and juicy, of a rich carnation* 
colour in the lean, and the fat is of a fine cream-colour ; rich without being 
oily, firm without being hard. It is small in the bone, and full in the flesh. 

Mutton. — In choosing mutton select that which is of a rich red col- 
our, close in the grain and of a silky texture, juicy and lively in appear- 
ance, and whitish in the fat, but not shiny and tallowy. The flesh 
should pinch tender, and rise again when dented 

I^mb. — Observe the neck vein in the fore quarter, which should be 
oi' an azure-biue to denote quality and sweetness. The flesh should be 
light-coloured and juicy, the fat white and nch, the bones thin and smalL 
Lamb should be dressed while perfectly fresh or the flavor will be de- 
stroyed. 

Venison. — Pass a knife along the bones of the haunches and shoul- 
ders ; if it smell sweet, the meat is new and good ; if tainted, the fleshy 
parts of the sides will look discoloured, and the darker in proportion 
to its staleness. The clefts of the hoofs of young venison are close and 
smooth. 

Veal. — The lean of good, well-fed veal, is white, smooth, and juicy ; the 
fat is white, firm, and abundant. The flesh of a bull-calf is firmer and 
ef a deeper colour than that of a cow-calf, and the fat is harder ; they are 
equally good for eating, if young and well fed. It is easy to tell whether 
veal be newly killed, or stale, by its general appearance, as the cdour 
changes quickly, particularly under the kidney and the flaps of the breast 
The flesh of stale-killed veal feels moist and clammy, the joints flabby 
and pliable, and it has a faint, musty smell. 

Pork. — If young and well-fed, the lean is easily broken between the 
fingers, and the skin indented if nipped with the nail ; the fat is white 
and waxj"^, and the rind thin and clean. Stale-killed pork is easily de- 
tected by the skin looking dark on the top, and clammy between the 
creases of the legs and shoulders, and by its strong-tainted smell. 

Ham and Bacon. — Run a knife along the bone of a ham ; if it come 
out clean, and have a savoiy flavor, the ham is good ; if smeared and 
dulled, it is spoiled either by taint or rust. Hocks and gammons of 
bacon may be proved in the same way. Good bacon is red in the lean 
an*' the f£ft is white, firm, and pulpy ; the rind is fine and thin. If ii 
b# ohcathed with yellow, it is rusty and unfit for use. 



HOME COOK BOOK. 



28 



Puultt%r--Iix selecting poultry choose those thai are full grown, but 
Dot old. When youhg and fresh-killed tho eires are full and bright, the 
joints neither Htifif nor flabby ; the skin uiin and tender, so that it 
may be easily torn with a pin ; the breast-bone is pliable, yielding easi' 
ly to pressure. Fowls, if young, have a hard close yent. and the legs and 
comb are smooth. A goose, if young, has but few hairs, a yellow bill 
and is limber>focted. Ducks, when fat, are hard and thick un the belly , 
if young and good they are limber-footed. 

Eggs, — Put your toi^ue to the larger end ; if it feel warm, the egg 
is fresh ; or put the e^ into a pan of cold water ; if perfectly fresh it 
will smk immediately, and so in proportion to its freshness ; a rotten 
egg will float on the top of the water. 

Butter. — The only way to try butter is by the smell and taste; never 
trust to its external appearance. Do not buy that wluch is speckled 
with pinky spots, nor that which has a milky appearance ; such butter 
has not been well washed from the butter-milk, and will quickly torn 
■our 01 lose its flavor. 

I^sh. — The best are thick and firm. When fresh they have stiff flns, 
bright scales, red gills, and eyes full and bright. Freshness is best 
indicated by the smelL In proportion to the time they have been 
out of the water are they soft and flabby, the fins pliable, the scales 
dim, the gills dark, and the eyes sunken. Cod should be firm, 
white, clear, and transparent. Salmon, mackerel, herrings, &c., 
are chosen by their brightness and brilliancy of colour. Shell-fish, such 
as lobsters, and crabs, can only be chosen by the smell, and by opening 
them at the joint to discover whether or not they are well filled, for 
they sometimes feel heavy through being charged with water. If a 
lobster be fresh, the tail will be stiff, and spring back sharply if pulled 
up. A cock lobster may be known by the narrowness of the back part 
of his tail and the stiffness of the two uppermost fins within it, while 
those of the hen are soft, and the back of her tail is broader 



IMPORTANT HINTS TO COOKS, ^ 

Which they will not regret following with attention. 

Let there be a place for every article, and when not in use let erery 
article be in its place. 

Keep eveiy utensil clean and ready for immediate use. 

Keep your meat in a cool dry place, your fish on ice, and your veg> 
etables on a stone floor five from air. 

Cut yoi-ir soap when it comes in, and let it dry slowly. 

Keep your sweet herbs in paper bags, each bag containing only one 
description of herb. They should be dried in the wind and net in the 
sun, and when ordered in a receipt should be cautiously used, as a 
(treponderance in any seasoning spoils it. - ••-!* 



wmm 



^4 



nOMX coos BOOK. 



I 



When oranges or lemons are nsed for juice, chop down the peel, pQ( 
them in small pots and tie them down for use. 

. Apples. — In choosing apples, he guided by the weight ; the heaviest 
are the best, and those should always be selected which, on bein« 

f>rps8ed by the thumb, yield with a slight crackling noi^e. Pivfer 
arge apples to small, for waste is saved in peeling and ocrir.g. 

Apples should be kept on dry straw in a dry place, and pears hung 
up by the stalk. 

Batter for fish, meat, fritters, &c. — Prepare it with fine flour, salt, n 
little oil, beer, vinegar, or white wine, and the whites of eggs beaten 
up ', when of a proper thickness, about the size of a nutmeg, it will drop 
out of the spoon at once. Fry in oil or hog's lard. 

Carrots, if young, need only be wiped when boiled — if old thej 
must be scraped before boiling. Slice them into a dish, and pour ovei 
them melted butter. 

Catilifloj}ers. — Cut oiF the stalks, but leave a little of the green on , 
boil m spring water with a little salt in it : they must not boU too fast. 

Celery. — Very little is sufficient for soups, as the flavor is very pre- 
dominating. It should be particularly cleanly washed and curled when 
sent to table. To curl celery, wxish well, and take otf the outside 
stalks, cut it to a proper length, split each stalk into three or four di- 
visions with % large needle, then place the head of celery in spring 
water with the root uppermost, and let it remain for four or five houi-s 
— it may then be tastefully arranged on the dish. 

Ga}ne may often b^ rnade fit for eating when it seems spoiled, by 
clraning it and washing; with vinegar and water. Birds that are no* 
likely to keep, should be drawn, cropped, and picked, then wash in 
two or ihree waters, and rub them with salt ; have in readiness a large 
saucepan of boiling water, and plunge them into it one by one, drawing 
them up and down by the legs, «•. ♦hat the water may pass through 
them. Let them stay for five or su jainutes, then hang them up in a 
cold place ; when they are completely drained, well salt and pepper 
the insides, and thoroughly wash them before roasting. 

Suet, may be kept a year, thus : choose the firmest and most free 
from skin or veins, remove all traces of these, put the suet in a sauce- 
pan at some distance from the fire, and let it melt gradually ; when 
melted, pour it into a pan of cold spring water ; when hard, wipe it 
dry, fold it in white paper, put in a Imen bag, and keep it in a ccol drv 
place ; when used, it must be scraped, and will make an excellent 
crust with or without butter. 

Toni^e, which has been dried, should be soaked in water three or 
four hours, one which has not been dried will require little soaking j ' 
put it in cold water, and boil gently till tender. / 

In furnishing utensils for cooking, it is advisable to purchase iroti 
saucepans ; although they ai'e more expensive at first, with care they 
will last a lifetime. The lids should fit close but easy. 

All saucepans, dish-covers, and spoons, with the dripping>pan and 
ladle, should be washed in hot water immediately they are duuo with, 



'f 



k. 



m 



\ 



— » -^^ -'3r>. 



I 



MJHIMIIMIM 



»>)n)n 



••••IWIW" 



■vwMMiMMnnp 



■> w ii i i Bifwwipy*l'P< 



it 
n 

'g 
n 

'I 
J 



'f 



ijr 



IIOMK COOK BOOK. 



/ 

'25 



they should then bo turned down to drain, and afterwards wiped per- 
fectly dry. The lids should be cj»r< fully washed, as the dirt lodges in 
the crevices, which, if not ro^noved every day, will soon form a ha: 
cnist of black grease very diificmlt to remove. 

The best thing to clean bright tin with is oil and rottenstofie. This 
roraoves all kinds of stain. They should be polished oflf with clean 
soft waeh-leather. 

The blades of the knives and the prongs of the forks should be dip- 
ped into hot water as soon as they are removed from the dinner-table, 
and then wiped dry on a clean cloth ; they are thus far easier to clean 
They must then bo rubbed on a board with bath-brick, and the prongs 
of the fork must be cleaned with a l)it of leather put round a stick of 
wood. After they are clean and bright they should be wiped free 
from dust, and the handles should be passed through a damp cloth, and 
then wiped dry. 

Pudding-cloths require only to be well washed out in the water in 
which the pudding has been boiled, and afterwards rinsed in clean hot 
♦rater, and hung up to dry. It is a good plan to have an eyelet-hole 
m the corner, through which the string may be passed after using ; it 
lis then always ready when wanted. 

After washing the plates and dishes, which require very hot water, 
and after rinsing in cold, if you have not a plate-rack, turn them down 
to drain ; if they require wiping, use a clean soft cloth for the purpose^ 
and rub them quite bright and shining. Nothing is more offensive than 
to handle a plate that looks dull, and feels sticky to the hand. 

When commencing to cook your dinner, you will save 'nuch time 
and labor by placing all the things likely to be wanted on the diTSser 
or table ; at the same time it is not well to accumulate too many arti- 
cles ; thei-efore clear as you go on. You will thus avoid confusion, and 
always have a clear k'tchen. 

Tlie [ilates and dishes should be placed in a screen or on a footman 
before the lire as soon as the cooking begins. Hot plates are indis 
pensable to the enjo » ment of a good dinner. 

The fire should be made up in good time, and the saucepans for pud 
diiigs and vegetables shoull be set on early. 

A good housewife always take care to have plenty of hot water. 

Cold water cracks hot iron infallibly. 

In the receipts through this book, though the quantities may be ac 
curately directed as possible, yet much must be left to the discretioD 
of the person who uses them. 

Tlie dilFerent tastes of people require more or less of the flavor of 
spices, salt, butter, &c which can never be ordered by general rules , 
and if the cook has not a good taste, not all the ingredients which 
nature and art can furnish, will give exquisite flavor to her dislieS, the 
proper articles should be at baud, and she must proportion them until 
the true zest be obtained. 



■ 



2G 



nOl^ OOOK BOOK. 



DIRECTIONS FOR CARVliVG. 

As the manner in which joints, and other provisions, are carred^ 
makes a material difference in the consumption and comfort of a family, it 
becomes highly important to those who study economy and good oraer 
in their domestic aiTangements, to practise the art. We therefore re- 
commend them to study the rules we purpose laying down, and which 
we commence with directions for earring fish. Our papers upon this 
subject will be accompanied with excellent illustratioiis. It must be 
remembered that in carving more depends upon skill than on strength ; 
that the carving-knMe should be light, jxid of moderate size, with a 
keen edge ; and that the dish should be so placed as to give the operar 
tor complete command over the joint. 

Fish. 

Fish is served with a fish-slice, and reqmres very little carving, care 
being required, however, not to break the flakes, which, froiA their size, 
add much to the beauty of cod and salmon. ' Serve part of the roe, 
milt, or liver, to each person. The heads of carp, part of those of cod 
and salmon, are likewise considered delicacies. 

Mackerel 

Should be deprived of the head 
and tail by passing the slice across 
in the direction of lines 1 and 2 j 
they should thefl be divided dovra 
the back, so as to assist each per** 
son to a side ; but if less is requir- 
ed, the thicket- end should be given, as it is more esteemed. If the roe 
is asked for, it will be found between 1 and 2. 

Cod's Head and Shoulders, 

Pass the fish-slice or knife from 
1 to 6 down to the bone ; then 
help pieces from between 1 — 2. 
and 3-4, and with each slice 
give a piece of the sound, which 
lies under the back-bone, and is 
_ _ ^ ^ procured by passinp; the knife in 

the direction 4— 5.~'There are many delicate parts about the liead, par- 
ticularly the oyster which is the cheek, below the eye : and a great 
deal of the ieliy kind, which lies about the javvg. The tonirtie and pal- 
ate are considered delicacies, and are obtained by passinjr the slice or Q 
spoon into the mouth 





« 



nOMR OOOK BOOK. 



«f 



■e- 

3h 
lis 

be 

^; 

a 



ra 




Salmon, 

Give b portion of the back and 
belly to each person, or as desir* 
ed. If a whole salmon is served 
remember that the choice parts 
are next the head, the thin part 
is the next best, and the tail least 
esteemed. Itfake an incision along the back 9 to 10, and another from 
1 to 2, and 3 to 4 ; cut the thickest part, between 10 — 2, for the lean, 
and 7—8 for the fat When the fish is very thick, do not help too 
near the bone, as the flavor and colour are not so good. 

EelsKre usually cut into pieces about three inches longj aD4 tha 
tluckest part being most esteemed, should be given first. 



.d 
ss 



DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING JOINTS. 



In assisting the more fleshy Joints, such as beef, leg, or saddle of mut 
ion, and fillet of veal, cut thin, smooth, and neat slices : taking care to 
pass the knife through to the bones of beef and mutton. 

The caiTcr would be saved much trouble, if the Joints of carcass 
pieces of mutton, lamb, and veal, were divided by the butcher previous 
to cooking. If the whole of the meat belonging to each bone should 
be too thick, a slice may be taken off from between every two bones. 

In assisting some boiled joints, as aitch-bone or round of beef, remove 
and lay aside a thick Rlice from the top, before you begin to serve. 

Edge or Aitch-bone of Beef . 

Cut off a slice three-quarters of 
an inch thick, from the upper part 
from 1 to 2 ; then help in long thin 
slices. The Eoft marrow-like fat 
lies below 3, at the back: the 
firm fiit is to be cut in thin hori- 
zontal slices at 4. Before sending 
to table, the wooden skowcn 
should be removed. 




28 



HOME COOK £00K. 




Part of a Sirloin of Btff, 

There are tvro modes of helpuig 
this joint ; either by carving long 
thin slices from 3 to 4, and assist- 
ing a portion of the marrowy fat, 
which is fouiid underneath tho 
ribs, to each person ; or. by cut- 
ting thicker slices in tho direction 
1 to 2. When sent to table th* 
joint should be laid down on the dish with the surface 2 uppermost. 

Ribs of Beef are carved similar to the sirloin, commencing at tlie 
thin end of the joint, and cutting long slices, so as to assist fat and lear. 
at thr, same time. 

Round or Buttock of Beef — Remove the upper surface in the same 
manner as for an aitch-bone of beef, carve thin horizontal slices of fat 
and lean, as evenly as possible. It requires a sharp knife and steady 
hand to carve it well. 

. Brisket of Beef 

must be carved in the direction 
1 and 2, quite down to the bone, 
after cutting off t.e outside, which 
should be about three-quarters of 
an inch thick. 




Shoulder of Mutton 
First cut down to the bone, in 
the direction of the 1 ne 1, and 
assist thin slices of lean from 
each side of tho incision. The 
best fat is found at 2, and should 
be cut in thin slices in tho direo* 
tion of that line. Several deli- 
cate slices may bo cut on either 
side of the line 3, and there are 
some nice bits on the under side, especially near the shank, and the 
4ap. Some carye this joint by cutting long slices from the knuckle to 
the bror ■ end, which is, in fact, an extension of line 3 j it is not an 
economical woy. 




nOMB COOK Booir. 



29 



•^i 




Leg of Mutton, 

Wether mutton is esteemed 
most, and may be known by r 
lump of fat at the edge of the 
broadest part, as at V. The finest 
slices are to Vk; obtained from the 
centre, by cutting in the direction 
1 to 2 ; and some yery good cuts 
may be got off the broad end from 
5 to 6. Some persons prefer the knuckle, which, though tender, is 
dry ; the question should therefore be asked. By turning over the leg 
some excellent slices may be procured, especially when it is cold, by 
cutting lengthways, the same as earring venison. The cramp-boue is 
another delicacy, and is obtained by cutting down to the thigh-bone at 
4, and passing the knife under it in a semi -circular direction to 3. Ihe fat 
lies chiefly on the ridge 5. When sent to table, it should have a frill 
of paper or a knitted ornament round the knuckle ; and if boiled, 
should lie on the dish as represented above, but should be turned over 
if roasted. 

Haunch of Mutton consists of the leg and part of the loin, cut so 
as to resemble a haunch of venison, and is to be carved in the same 
manner. 

Saddle or Chine of Mutton. — This is an excellent and elegant joint 
and should be carved in long thin smooth slices from the tail to the end, 
commencing close to the back-bone — a portion of fat being assisted 
with each slice, which must be taken from the sides. It is carved on 
both sides of the bac<-bone. Some carvers make an incision close to 
the back-bone throughout its length, and cut slices crossways from 
thence. If sent to table with the tail on, it may be removed by cut 
ting between the joint. 

Loin of Mutton is easily carved, as the bones are divided at the joints* 
AJegin at the narrow end, and ta e off the chops ; some slices of meat 
may be obtained between the bones, when the joints are cut through. 

Fore Quarter of Lamb, 

First separate the shouldcT 
from the breast by passing th« 
knife in the direction 3, 4. and 5. 
The body should be divided by 
an incision, as in 1, 2, so as to se- 
parate the ribs from the gristly 
part, and either may be assisted 
by cutting in "the dii'octi'^n 6, 7 
Ihe shoulder is to be carved the same as mutton. 




80 



7J0ME COOS BOOK. 




A Loin of Lnmb Leg of Lamb, and Shoulder of Lamb must be 
saryed in the same manner as mutton, for which see directions. 

Haunch of Venison. 

Fii*8t cut it across down to tha 
bone in the line 1, 3, 2, then turn 
the dish with the end 4 towards 
you, put in the point of the knife 
at 3, and cut it down as deep as 
possible in the^rcction 3 — 4 after which, continue to cut slices paral- 
lel to 3—4 on the right and left of the line. The best slices are on the 
left of the line 3 — 4, supposing 4 to be towards you ; and ^he fattest 
slices are to be found between 4 and 2. 

Loin of Veal, should be jointed previous to being sent to tablck 
when the divisions should be separated with the carving-knife, and a 

Sortion of the kidney and the fat which surrounds it, given with each 
iTlsion. 

A BTeast of Veal Roasted^ 




should be divided into parts by 
an incision in the direction \-—2, 
then divide the brisket, or gristly 
part, jnto convenient pieces, as 3 
— 4, 5 — 6, and the ribs also, as 7 
— 8. The sweetbixad, 9, may 
be divided into portions, or assist- 
ed whole j it is more economical 
^^^ howevei", to make a side dish of it. 



' 



r 
c 
I 

g 




A Faiet of Veal, 

is carved in a similar manner tc 
a round of beef, in thin and 
smooth slices, oif the top; some 
persons like the outside, there- 
fore ask the question. For the 
BtuflBng, cut deep into the flap 
between 1 — 2, and help a portion 
of it to e»ch person. 



.M fi 




IIOMB OOOK BOOIC. 

Knuckle of Vealf 



z\ 



is to be carved in the direvjtion 1 — 2i 
The most delicate fat lies about th« 
pait 4, and if cut in the line 3-4, tho 
two bones, between which the mar 
Towy fat lies, will be divided. 







A Roasted Pig, 

The pig is seWoni sent to table 
whole, but is divided by the cook, 
and served up as repit?sented in 
the accompanying illustration. 
First divide the shoulder from the 
body on one side, and then the leg 
in the same manner ; separate tho 
ribs into convenient portions, and assist a little stuffing and gravy with 
each. If the Iiead has not been divided, it must be done, and the 
brains laken out and mixed with the gravy and stuffing. The trian- 
gular piece of the neck is the most delcate part of the pig, the ribs thi 
next best, and the ear is also regarded as a delicacy 

Leg of Pork 

whether boiled or roasted, is carved 
the same. Commence about mid' 
way, between the knuckle and the 
thick end, and cut thin decf slices 
from either side of the' line 1 to 2. 
For the seasoning in the roast leg, 
look under the skin at the thick end. 

Hand of Pork.— Cnt thm slices either across near the knuckle oi 
from the blade-bone, the same as for a shoulder of mutton. 

Loin of Pork is to be carved in the same manner as a loin :f mutton 

A f^pare Rib of Pork is carved by cutting slices from the flcsliy 
part, after with the bones should be disjointed and eeipurated. 




82 



BOME OOOK BOOK. 

« 



Htm 

may be carved in three ^nyn 
firstly, by cutting lonp: dclicat* 
slices through the thick fat In 
the direction 1 — 2, down tc 
the bone ; secondly, by insertr 
ing the point of the ca^^'ing- 
_ - — ^-r^-**'-^ knife in the circle in the mid- 

7msrm^^:m--r--^'^>r^f^--r---^- ^le^ taking out a piece as 3, and 

by cutting thin circular slices, thus enlarge the hole gradually, which 
keeps the meat moist ; and thirdly, which is the most economical way, 
by commencing at the hock end 4 — 5, and proceeding onwards. 
When used for pies, the meat should be cut from the under side, after 
toking off a thick slice. It should be sent to table with a frill of white 
paper or a knitted ornament on the knuckle. 





IlalJ a Caffv Head Boiled 

should be cut in thin slices from 
1 to 2, the knife passing down 
to the bone. The best part in 
the head is the throat svN-eet- 
bread, which is situated at the 
thick part of the neck 3, and 
should be carved in slices from 
3 to 4, and helped with the otlier 
— part. If the eye is wished for, 

force the pjint of the carving-knife down on one side to the bottom ol 
the socket, and cut it quite round. The palate or roof of the mouth is 
esiiecmed a great delicacy ; and some fine lean will be found on the 
lower jaw, and nice gristly fat about the ear. The brains and tongue 
are generally sent to table on a separate dish j the centre slice of the 
tongue is considei-ed the best. 



A Tongue 

should be cut across, nearly 
through the middle, at the line 
1, and thin slices taken from 
each side ; a portion of the fat 
which is situated at the root of 
the toague, be^ng assisted wit> 




HOME 0()0K BOOK. 



83 



POULTRY AND GAME. 

All poultry should be well picked, every plug, or fctab, remoyod^ and 
the bird carefully and nicely singed with white fjaper. In drawing 
poultry, or game, care ahould be taken not to break the gall-bladder 
•— oa it would spoil the flavor of the bird by imparting a bitter tasto to 
it, that no washing or any process could remove— nor the gut joininff 
the dzzard, otherwise the inside would be gritty. 

ObaerocUiom on Carving.— Iho carving-knife for poultry and game 
i« smaller and lighter than that for meat; the point is more peaked, 
and the handle longer. 

In cutting up wild-fowl, duck, goose, or turkey, more prime places 
may be obtamed by carving slices from pinion to pinion without mak- 
ing wmgs, which is a material advantage in distributing the bird when 
the party is large. 

A ooosx • i 




Turn the neck towards you, 
and cut two or 'three long slicei 
on each side of the breast, in the 
lines 1 — 2, quite to the bone. 
Then remove the leg by turning 
the goose on one side, putting the 
fork through the small end of the leg-bone, and pressing it close to thu 
body, which, when the knife is entered at 4. raises the joint ; the knife 
is then to be passed under the leg, in the duvction 4 — 5. If the leg 
hangs to the carcass at the joint 5, turn it back with the fork, and it 
will readily separate if young, but will require some strength if old. 
Take the wing off by putting the fork into the small end of the pinion, 
and press it close to the body ; divide the joint at 3 with the knife, 
c^irrying it along as far as 4. When the leg and wmg on one side are 
taken oif, remove those on the other side. 

To get at the stuffing, the apron must be removed by cutting in the 
line 6, 5, 7, and then take off the merry-thoi^ht in the line 8, 9. The 
neck-bon^s are next to be separated as in a fowl, and all other parts 
divided the same. 

The best parts are the breast slices ; the fleshy part of the wing, 
which may be divided from the pinion ; the thigh-bone, which may be 
easily divided in the joint from the leg-bone ; the pinion ; and next, the 
side-bone. The rump is a nice piece to those who lile it ; and the car^ 
cass is preferred by some to other parts. 

When assisting the stuffing, extract it with a spoon from the body 
through the aperture caused by removing the tpron ; mix it with the 
gravy, which should first be poured from the boat into the body of tb: 
goose^ before any one is helped* 



M 



nOME COOK BOOK* 



TURKBT. 

If tho turkey Is to te boiled, cut the first Joint of the legs off; pasn 
the middle finger into the insiuo, raiBo tho 8kin of the legt and put 
them under tho apron of tho bird. Put a skewer into the joint of the 
wing and tho middle Joint of tho leg, and run it through tho body and 
. the other leg and wing. The liver and gizzard must be put in the 
pinions, care being taken to open and previously remove the contents 
of the latter ; the gall bladder must also bo detached from the liver. 
Then turn the small end of the pinion on the back, and tie a packthraad 
over the ends of the legs to keep them in their places. 

If the turkey is to be roasted, leave the legs on, put a skewer in tho 
joint of the wing, tuck the legs close up, and put the skewer through 
the middle of the legs and body ; on the other side pat another skewer 
in at the small part of the leg. Put it closo on the outside of the sides- 
man, and push the skewer througli, and the same on the other side. 
Put the liver and gizzard between the pinions, and turn the point of 
the pinion on the back. Then put, close above the pinion", another 
skewer through the body of the bird. 
Carving. — The finest parts of a turkey are the breast, neck bones, 

and wings ; the latter will boar 
some deUcate slices being remov- 
ed. After the four quarters aro 
severed, the thighs must be divi- 
ded from the drum-sticks, which 
being tough, should be reserved 
)till the last. It is customary not 
tu cut up more than the breast| 
but if any more is required, to take oil* one of the winga j a tliiu shco 
of the force-meat, which is under the breast, should be given to e&ch 
person, cutting in the direction from the rump to the neck. 

FOWLS 

Fowls must be picked very clean and the neck cut off close to the 
back. Take out the crop, and, with the middle finger, loosen the liver 
and other parts. Out off the vent, draw it clean, and beat the breast 
bone flat with a rolling-pin. 

If the fowl is to be boiled^ cut off the nails of the feet, and tuck them 
down close to the legs. Put your finger into the inside, and raise the 
«kin of the legs ; then cut a hole in the top of the skin, and put the legs 
dndor. Put a skewer in the fii-st joint of the pinion, and bring tho 
middle of the leg close to it ; put the skewer through the middle of 
the leg, »jid through the body, and then do the same on the other side. 
Open the gizzard, remove the contents, and wash well j remove thfl 




HOMK COOK BOOK. 



M 



T*2-i.,^X 



m 

10 
10 




Boiled Fowl 



gall-bladder from the liver. Put tho gizzard 
and the liver in the pinions, turn tho points 
on tho back, and tic a string over tho tops of 
the Icf^s, to keep them in their proper places. 
If tho fowl is to be roasted, put a skevrer in 
tho first joint of (ho pinion, and bring the mid* 
die of the leg close to it. Put the skewer 
through tho middle of the leg, and through 
the body, and do the same on the other side. 
Put another skewer in the small of the leg, 
and through the sidesman ; do the same on 
the other side, and then put another through 
tho skin of the feet which should have tho 
nails cut oft\ 




CarvinfT' — A fowl is cut up in the same way whether roasted or 
boiled. AYe have illustrated tho method of carving upon tho boiled 
towl. Fix the fork in the middle of the breast at 5, take off tho wing 
m tho direction 1 — 2, dividing the joint at 1. Lift up the pinion witli 
FOur fork, and draw the wing towar.ly the leg, ^^-hich will separate tho 
hy part better than by tho knife ; and between the log and tho 

body at 3 to the bone as far as the joint ; 
then give tho knife a sudden twist, and the 
Joint will yield if the bird is young; reprat 
this on the other side, and then take ofi'tlio 
merrythought in the line 2 — 5—4 by passing 
the knife under it towards the neck; no^ 
lemove the neck-bones by passing tho knife in at 7 under the lonj/ 
broad part of the bone in tho line 7 — G ; then lilting it up, and break- 
ing off the end of the shorter part of the bone, which cleaves to tl;o 
breast-bone. Divide the breast from tho back, by cutting through tho 
lender ribs on each side, from the neck quite down to the vent ; turn 
up the back, press the point of <^he knife about halfway between tho 
neck and rump, and on raising the lower end it will separate easily. 
Turn the rump from you, take off the sidesmen by forcing the knife 
through the rump-bone, in the lines 5 — 8, and the whole fowl is com- 
pletely carved. 

The prime parts of a fowl, whether roasted or boiled, are the wings, 
breast, and merry-thought ; and next to these, the neck-bones and 
lide-bonos ; the legs are rather coarse — of a boiled fowl, however, the 
logs arc rather more tender than a roasted one j of the legs of a fowl 
the thigh is the better part, and therefore when given to any one 
should be separated from the dram-stick, which is done by passing 
the knife underneath, in the hollow, and turning the tliigh bone back 
from the leg-bone 



'^^m'm 



^•■^^ 



36 



HOME COOK BOOK. 



PARTRIDGE. 

Carnng. — ^Thia bird is cut up in the same manner as a fowl, only 
on account of the smallness, the merry-thought 
is seldom divided from the breast. The wings 
must be taken off" in tJve lines 1 — 2, and the mer- 
ry-thought, if wished, in the lines 3 — 4. Tiie 
j)rime parts are the wings, breast, and merry- 
thought. The wing is considered best, and the 
tip of it is eateemed the most delicate piece of 
the whole. 





Bach of Duclc, 




DUCK. 

Carvi:!(7. — ^Eemove the legs and wings as di- 
rected before for a goose, and cut some slices 
frcin each side of the breast. The seasoning 
will be found under the apron, as in the other 
bird. If it is necessary, the merry-tliought, &c., 
can be detached in the same manner as when 
carving a fowl. 

Every kind of wild-fowl must be carved the 
same as a duck. 



PIGEON. 



If for roasting, cut off the toes, cut a slit in one o* 
the legs, and put the other through it. Draw the leg 
tight to the pinion, put a skewer through the pinion 
legs, and body, and with the handle of the knife break 
the breast flat. Clean the gizzard, put it under one of 
the pinions, and turn the points on the back. 

If 'for boiling or stewing, cut the feet off at the joint, turn the lega, 
and stick them in the sides, close to the pinions. If for a pie, they 
must be done in the same manner. 

Carving. — There are three methods of carving them ; 1st, as a chick- 
en ; 2nd, by dividir^cj them down the middle ; and 3rd, dividing them 
across, which is done by fixing the fork at 1, and entering the knife 
just before it, then cutting in the lines 1—2 and 1— -3. The lowe • pari 
IS considered the better half 



HOME COOa. book. 



oy 



*j 





WOODCOCK, PLOVER, AND SNIPE 

If these birds are not verj fresh, great care must be taken in pick 
Uig them,^ they are very tender to pick at any time ; for even the 
heat of the hand will sometimes take off tlie skin, which 
will destroy the beauty of the bird. When picked clean. 
,,>-^__^ >cut the pinions in the first joint, and with the handle of 
a knife beat the breast bone flat. Turn the legs close to the thighs, and 
tie \hem together at the joints. Put the thighs close to the pinions, 
put a skewer into the pinions, and run it through the thighs, body, and 
other pinion. Skin the head, turn it, take out the eyes, and put the 
head on the point of the skewer, with the bill close to the breast. 
These birds must never be drawn. 

Carving.— Woodcocks and plovers are carved tl^e same as a fowl, if 
.arge ; but cut in quarters if small. Snipes are cut in halves. The 
head is generally opened in all. 

-- RABBIT 

Run a skewer through the two 
shoulders, at 2; another through 
the head at one, or pass it into the 
mouth and through the body, to 
keep the head in its place; two 
others should be passed through 
the roots of the ears to keep them erect ; and another through the 
legs at 3. The inside of the ears should be singed out with a hot poker 
before roasting, and the eyes extracted with a fork. Many people lut 
a rabbit soak in cold water all night before dressing, but a few hours is 
quite sufficient to extract the blood. 

Carving. — Insert the point of the knife hiside the shoulder at G, and 
divide all the way down to the rump, on both sides, in the line C, 7, 8, 
which will separate the rabbit into three pieces. Sever the shoulders 
in the direction 5, 6, 7, and the legs in a similar manner ; as the latter is 
too large for one person in a large one, it should be divided fiom the thiglu 
Now behead it, cut off the ears close to the roots, and divide the up- 
per from the lower jaw; then place the former on a plate, put the point 
of the knife into the forehead, and divide it through the centre down 
to the nose. Cut the back into several small pieces in the lines 9 — 10, 
and proceed to assist, giving some stuffirg, (which is found below 10,) 
and gravy to each person. This can only be done easily when the ani- 
mal is young ; if old, it must be cut up as follows : — Out olf the lega 
and shoulders first, and then cut out long narrow slices on each side of 
the back-bone in the direction 7 — 8 ; then divide the back-bone mto 
three or more parts, and behead as ui^jual. 

In conclusion, we may observe, that all printed directions muBt 
fail without constant practice, yet with practice, and due attention to 
tlie rules we have laid down, we doubt ar^t that many of oiu: readers 
will spocdilv become good carvers. 



2^8 



HOME COOK BOOK. 



SOUPS AND BROTHS. 



Geneiul Remauks. — The chief art in making good soup lies in the 
fudiciona blending of the different flavors, so that nothing shall pro* 
dominate. 

The scum should be taken off before the soup boils, or it will not be 
clear. All the fat is to be taken off. 

Simmer very softly. If soup be suffered to boil quickly, the good- 
ness of the meat can never be extracted. 

Put the meat into cold water ; let it be long on the fire before it 
coutes to a boil ; allow about two tablespoonfuls of salt to a gallon of 
soup, if it have many vegetables ; less if the vegetables be few. 

if the water waste, and more is to be added, use boiling water. Cold 
or lukewarm water will spoil the soup. 

Keep the pot in which your soup is boiling closely covered, or the 
strength will fly off with the steam. 

Soup will be as good the second day as the first, if heated to the 
boiling point. It should never be left in the pot, but should be turned 
into a dish or shallow pan, and set aside to get cold. Never cover it* 
up, as that will cause it to turn sour very quickly. 

Before heating a second time, remove all the fat from the top. If 
this be melted in, the flavor of the soup will certainly be spoiled. 

Thickened soups require nearly double the seasoning used for thin 
soups or broth. 

Soups are the substance of meat infused in water by boiling, and are 
of many different kinds, but may be divided into two classes, namely. 
brown and white. The basis of brown soups is always beef, while the 
basis of white soups is generally veal. Broths are preparations of 
soup, but more simple in their nature, and usually containing some 
kind of vegetables or matter for thickening, as rice, barley, &c Soups 
of every description should be made of sound fresh meat and soft watci . 
It is a general rule to allow a quart of water for every pound of mf v? ; 
also to boil quickly at first, to make the scum rise, which is asLifci/ •; 
by adding a little salt ', and after skimming, to simmer gently. 

To make Brown or Gravy Soup. — Take a shin or piece of the rump 
of beef, and break it in several places. Cut the beef from the bones ; 
take out part of the marrow, and lay it on the bottom of the pot If 
there be no marrow, use butter. Then lay in the meat and bones to 
brown. Turn the whole when browned on one side, and take care it 
does not burn. When it is thoroughly browned, add a pint of cold 
water to draw the juice from the meat, also a little salt ; and in a 
quarter of an hour after, fill in the quantity of cold ws*^er which may 
be requisite. Now add the vegetables, as, for instance, two carrots, a 
turnip, and three or four onions, all sliced ; also a stalk of celery, some 
sweet herbs, with some whole black pepper. Let the soup boil slowly 
for from four to five hours, after which take it off, and let it stand a 
little to settle. Then f kim off the fat, and put it through a hair sieve 



il> 



HOME COOK BOOK. 



89 



to clear jt. The soup, if cleared, may row be either served or set 
aside for after use. It should have a clear bright look, with a brown- 
ish tinge. Frequently, it is made the day before using, in order that 
it may be efiectually skimmed of fat. In such a case, it is heated again 
before serving. On some occasions, it is served rrith a separate dish 
of toasted bread cut in small squares. 

The meat which has made the soup, is supposed to be divested of 
nearly all its nourishing qualities ; but where thriftiness is contsulted^ 
it may form an agreeable stew, with vegetables, a little ketchup, and 
pepper and salt. 

Brown Swp, made as above directed, forms what is called iftock, that 
is, a foundation for every other soup of the brown kind, also as a gravy 
ibr stews where richness is required. 

Beef or Mutton Soup. — Boil very gently in a closely covered sauce- 
pan, lour quarts of water, with two table-epoonfuls of sifted bread 
raspings, three pounds of beef cut in small pieces, or the same quantity 
of mutton chops taken from the middle of the neck ; season with pep- 
per and salt add two turnips, two carrots, two onions and one head 
of celery, all cut small ; let it stew with these ingredients 4 hours, 
when it will be ready to serve. 

CJieap Broth for a Large Fainzly. — Put a cupful of pearl barley in- 
to a pot with three quarts of cold water, and let it boil ; then put in 
two pounds of neck of mutton ; boil it gently for an hour, taking care 
to skim it occasionally, and watch it to prevent it boiling over. Then 
put in one grated carrot and two turnips, cut in small squares ; an 
onion or two, sliced thin, or a leak, and two or three pieces of carrot 
and turnip, uncut. Some persons add the half of a small cabbage, 
chopped small, boil for an hour longer, have some bits of stale bread 
cut into fingers laid in the bottom of your tureen, pour the soup over 
it and send to table. 

Broth made in an hour. — Cut into small pieces one pound of beef or 
veal. Put it into a saucepan, with a carrot, an onion, a slice of lean 
bacon, and half a glass of water ; let it simmer for a quarter of an 
hoiu*, then pour over it a pint of boiling water, add a little salt, let it 
boil three-quarters of an hour, and strain it through a sieve. 

Mutton Broth. — This is an excellent broth for invalids, being of a 
very mild nature, and particularly eificacious to those whose stomachs 
have been rendered tender by much medicine. The best parts of mut- 
ton for making broth are either the scrag end of the neck or the 
chump end of the loin, which should be put into a clean saucepan with 
cold water in the proportion of a quart of water to every pinmd of 
meat. Throw in a little salt and ^im it well as it comes to a boil ; 
then set it aside that it may simmer very gently ; slice in an oniui and 
two turnips ; let it stew for two hours, and just before you take it up, 
chop up a few sprigs of parsley very fine, and put into the broth, first 
iaking out the mutton. Toast some bread in thin slices, and cut it in 



i^mm 



40 






HOME COOK BOOK. 



mall squareB into a bason ; pour the broth oyer it and serve the meat 
in a dish ; the turnips may be strained dnr and served plain, or mash- 
ed up with a little butter, pepper, and salt. Some prefer to thicken 
the broth with pearl barley, if ror a sick person, omit the herbs and 
vegetables. 

White Soup. — Take a good knuckle of veal, or 2 or 3 short shanks 
boil it in 4 quarts of water about 4 hours, with some whole white 
pepper, a little mace, salt, 2 onions, and a small piece of lean ham 
strain it, and when cold take off all the fat and sediment ; beat up 6 
yolks of e^s, and mix them with a pint of cream ; then pour tlie boil- 
ing soup upon it. Boil the cream before putting it in the soup. 

Family Sowp8. — Take 2 lbs. of lean bee^ cut into small pieces, with 
one quarter lb. of bacon, 2 lbs. of mealy potatoes, 3 oz. of rice, carrots, 
turnips, and onions sliced, and cabbage. Fry the meat, cabbage, and 
onions, in butter or dripping, the latter being the most savonr ; and put 
them into a gallon of water, to stew gently over a slow fii'e for 3 hours 
putting in the carrots at the same time, but the turnips and rice only 
time enough to allow of their being well done ; and mat- 'ng the pota- 
toes, which should be then passed through a cullender : season only 
with pepper and salt: keep the vessel clor^ly covered. It will make 
5 pints of excellent soup. 

Or* — To any quantity or kind of broth add whatever vegeUbles 
may be in season, and stew them gently till quite tender. Then 8i;rain 
the soup ; thicken it with flour and water, to be mixed gradually while 
simmering ; and, when that is done, and seasoned to your taste, return 
the vegetables to the soup, and simmer for an hour. 




Toast bread and cut into dice ; put it in a dish ; lay in the beef, and 
pour on the broth. 

Plain Calf ^8 Head Soup, — Boil the head in just enough water to 
cover it ; when tender, remove the bones, cut the meat in small pieces 
and season with sweet-herbs, cloves, pepper and salt. Put all back in- 
to the pot with the liquor, and thicken it with a little batter ; stew 
gently for an hour, and just ap you dish it up add a glass or two of 
sherry wine and the yolks of a few eggs boiled hard. 

Mock Turtle Soup — Take a calfs head, the skin having been scalded 
and the hair scraped off clean, wash it thoroughly ; take out the brains 
and boil them separately till done enough. Put the head into a jiot 
with more water than will cover it. Skim it frequently till it boils, 
and let it boil for an hour, but very gently. Take it oul, and when 



a 



lit 






nOMB OOOE BOOK. 



41 



il- 



of 



•ot 



a 



eool cat the meat into pieces of about an inch square. &crape and cnl 
the tongue in the same manner. Lay all these pieces aside, then 
put inio the water in which the head was boiled, about three or four 
pounds of leg of beef and a knuckle of veal — the meat cut small and 
the bones broken. Add four or five onions, a carrot and turnip, sliced, 
a small bunch of sweet-herbs, and some whole black pepper, ^oil alj 
together slowly, for four or five hours, then sti-ain it and let it cool, 
when take off the fat. Now melt a lump of butter in a stewpan, put 
to it two handful of flour, and let it brown, stirring it a'l the time. 
Add a little of the soup, and a few sprigs of parsley. Boil this for 
a quarter of an hour, strain it through a sieve, put it, with the pieces 
of meat, into the soup, with the brains pounded, and boil all together 
for an hour. Add half a teacupful of ketchup, the juce of a lemon, cayenne 
pepper, and salt, to taste, also four glasses of sherry, and when dished 
in a tureen, put in two dozen of force-meat balls, and the same quantity 
of egg-balls, which ai-e made as follows : — 

Egg BaUs. — Boil four or five eggs till they are quite hard. Take 
out the yolks and beat them in a mortar, with salt and cayenne pepper. 
Make this into a paste with the white of egg. Roll the paste into balls 
we size of small marbles. Roll them in a little flour and fry them in 
batter, taking care they do not bi-cak. 

Farce-meat BaUa, — Cut half a pound of v al and half a pound of suet? 
fine, and beat them in a mortar. ' Uave a few sweet-lierbs shred fine ; 
dried mace beaten fine ; a small nutmeg grated ; a little lemon-peel cut 
very fine ; a little pepper and salt, and tne yolks of two eggs ; mix all 
these well together, then roll them in little round balls ; roll them in 
flour and try them brown. If for while sauce, put them in a little 
boiling water, and boil them for a few minutes, but do not fry them. 

Pigeon Soup, — Take eight good pigeons j cut up two, and put them 
on with as much water as will make a large tui'een of soup, adding the 
pinions, necks, gizzards and Uvers of the others ; boil well and strain ; 
season the whole pigeons within with mixed spices and salt, and tniss 
them with their lege into their belly. Take a large handful of prsley, 
young onions, and spinach ; pick and wash them clean, and shred small ; 
then take a handfid of grated bread, pi it a lump of butter about the 
size of a hen's egg in a frying-pan, and when it boils throw in the 
bread, stirring well until it becomes a fine brown color. Put on the 
stock to boil, add the whole pigeons, herbs, and fried bread, and when 
the pigeons are done enough, dish up with the soup. 

^up a la Julienne^ or Vegetable. — Cut various kinds of vegetables 
la pieces, celery, carrots, turnips, onions, &c., and having put two ounces 
of butter in the bottom of a stew-pan, put the vegetables on the 
top of tho butter, together with any others that may be in season 
ttew or fry them over a slow fire, keeping them stirred, and adding * 



/■ 



12 



nOMB COOK BOOK. 



little of the stock occasionally; soak small piecc9 of crust of bread in 
the remainder of the broth or stock, and when the vegetables are 
nea^'ly stewed, add them, and warm the whole up together. 

Cahliflawer Soup. — Pick some small cauliflowers, cut them in piecei 
put them into a saucepan with a piece of butter, and brown them 
moisten them with water, and season. Add toasted slicei of bread 
fv^hich soak in the soup, and let it simmer until the whSie is dissolved 
together. Then serve. 

Peas Soup. — This is an excellent soup, if well made, and is one of 
the cheapest soups that can be put on the table, for it may be formed 
of cold meat or marrow bone, or, what is cheaper still, merely water, 
or the liquor in which any piece of mutton, lamb, or veal, has been 
boiled. We give the following two recipes for making it : — 

Peas Soup with Meat yr Bones. — Take a good marrow bone, or the 
bones of cold roast beef; a sUce or shank of ham may be added, if the 
flavor be liked. Break the bones, and put them in the pot with four 
quarts of cold water. According to the thickness and quantity requi- 
red, take two or three pounds of the best split peas, and put them 
among the cold water and bones ; add to this two carrots, two turnips, 
half a dozen small onions, a stalk of celery cut in pieces, a bunch of 
thyme, and some whole black pepper. Let all this boil for two hours, 
stirring frequently, as the soup is very apt to bum. When the peas 
arc quite soft and broken down take the soup ofl', and put it through a 
sieve, into another pot ; rub it well through until the pulp be mixed 
with the soup. Add salt melted amongst a little water, and boil the 
Boup again for a few minutes. When to be served, cut a slice of toast- 
ed bread into small square pieces, and put in the tureen with the soup 

Peas Soup without Meat or Bones. — Put two pounds or pints of peas 
in five quarts of water. Boil for four hours ; then add three or four 
large onions, two heads cf celery, a carrot and a turnip, all cut up ; and 
season with salt, to tnste. Boil for two hours longer. If the soup 
become two thick, add a little water. The peas may be boiled the 
evening before being used, and the longer they boil, the smoother and 
more mellow the soup will be ; but -do not put in the vegetables until 
the day the soup is to be used. By this plan the soup does not re- 
quire straining. 

Clam Soup. — Take forty or fifty clams, and wash and scrub the 
outside of the shells till they are perfectly clean. Then put them 
mto a pot with just sufficient water to keep thom from burning. The 
water must boil hard when you put in the clams. In about a quarter 
of an hour the shells will open, and the liquor run out and mix with the 
water, which must be saved for the soup, and strained into a soup-pot, 
iStot the clams are taken out. Extract the clams from their shells, and 



/ 



HCME COOK WOOK. 



^Z 



i, 



eat them np small. Then put them into the soup-pot, adding a minced 
onion, a saucer of finely chopped celery, or a table-spoonful of celery 
seed, and a dozen blades of mace. No salt, as the clam-liquor will bo 
quite salt enough. If the liquid is not in sufficient quantity to fill a 
large tureen, add some milk. Thicken the soup with two large table- 
spoonfuls of fresh buttec rolled in flour. I^et it boil a quarter of an 
hour or twenty minutes. Just before you take it from the fire, stir in, 
gradually, the beaten yolks of five eggs ; and then take up the soup and 
pour it into a tureen, the bottom of which is covered with toasted 
brcad, cut into square dice about an inch in size. 

Eel Soup. — Take 3 lbs. of small eels, and skin them ; bone 1 or 2 ; 
cut them in very small pieces ; fry them very lightly in a stew-pan 
with a bit of butter and a sprig of parsley. Put to the remainder 3 
quarts of water, a crust of bread, 3 blades of mace, some whole pepper, 
an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; cover them close, and stew till 
the fish breaks from the bones ; then strain it off; pound it to a paste, 
and pass it through a sieve. Toast some bread, cut it into dice, and 
pour the soup on it boiling. The soup will be as rich ajs if made of 
meat lAtlx pint of cream or milk, with a tea-spoonful of flour rub- 
bed smooth in it, is a great improvement. 

Chicken Soup. — Cut up two large fine fowls, as if carving them for 
the taole, and wash the pieces in cold water. Take half a dozen thin 
slices of cold ham, and lay them in a soup-pot, mixed among the pieces 
of chicken. Season them with a very little cayenne, a little nutmeg, 
and a few blades of mace, but no salt, as the ham will make it salt 
enough. Add a head of celery, split and cut into long bits, a quarter 
of a pound of butter, divided in two, and rolled in flour. Pour on three 
quarts of milk. Set the soup-pot over the fire, and let it boil rather 
slowly, skimming it well. When it has boiled an hour, put in some 
small round dumplings, made of half a pound of flour mixed with a 
quarter of a pound of butter ; divide this dough into equal portions, and 
roll them in your hands into little balls about the size of a large hick- 
ory nut. The soup must boil till the flesh of the fowls is loose on the 
bones, but not till it drops off. Stir in, at the last, the. beaten yolks of 
three or four eggs ; and let the soup remain about five minutes longer 
over the fire. Then take it up. Cut off from the bones the flesh of 
the fowls, and divide it into mouthfuls. Cut up the shoes of ham in 
the same manner. Mince the livers and gizzards. Put the bits of 
fowl and ham in the bottom of a large tureen, and pour the soup 
upon it. 

Oyster Soup. — Take 2 quarts of oysters and drain them with a fork 
from their liquor ; wash them in one water to free them from grit ; cut 
in small pieces 2 slices of lean bacon, strain the oyster liquor and put 
in it the bacon, oysters, some parsley, thyme, and onions tied in a bunch 
as thick as the thumb, season with pepper and salt, if necessary ; let it 
boil slowly, and when almost done, add a lump of butter as large as a 
hen's egg, rolled in flour, and a gill of good cream. It will take from 20 to 
80 minutes to cook it. 



I'i 



HOME 0(KJC BOOK. 






F)re8h Cody Boiled. — The thickness of this fish beiiig very unequal, th« 
head and shoulders greatly preponderating, it is seldom boiled wnole, 
because in a large fish the tail, from its thinness in comparison to the 
upiier-part of the fish, would be very much overdone. Whenever it is 
boiled whole, a small fish should be selected. Tie up the head and shoul- 
ders well, place it in the kettle with enough cold water to completely 
cover it ; cast in a handful of salt. The fish if a small one, will be cooked 
tn twenty minutes after it has boiled— if large it will take half an hour. 
When enough, drain it clear of the scum, remove the string ; send it 
to table garnished with the liver, the smelt, and the roe of the fis b 
icrapid horse-radish, lemon-sliced, and sprigs of parsley. 

The tail, when separated from the body of the fish, may be cooked 
in a variety of fashions. Some salt rubbed into it and hanging it two 
days, will render it exceedingly good when cooked. It may be spread 
open and thoroughly salted, or it may be cut into fillets, and fried. 

If the cod is cooked when very fresh, some salt should be rubbed 
down the back and the bone before boiling — it much improves the 
flavor or, if hung for a day, the eyes of the fish should be removed, and 
salt filled in the vacancies. It will be found to ^ve firmness to the 
fish and add to the richness of the flavor. 

Salt Cod — Boiled. — Put the fish to soak over night, in warm water ; 
Bel in a warm place. The next morning take it out of the water j 
scrape, and scrub it well with a hard brush ; put it in a kettle of fi-csh 
eold water j bring it to the boiling point, and keep it at that heat until 
half an hour before dinner. Give it a good boil up ; drain it well ; and 
«end to table with egg-sauce, or melted butter thickened with hard 
boiled eggs minced fine. Many people like salt pork cut in small 
square pieces, and fried brown, as a sauce for salt fish. It is some- 
times also minced with potato, and warmed over when first sent to 
table. 

Cod^a Head and Shoulders. — Having selected a fine cod"s head and 
shoulders, not severed, but in one piece, it must be cleaned, and left all 
night in salt. Skin it, and bind it with tape before dressing ; then put 
it in a fish-kettle with< the back turned over; pour in plenty of cold 
water, a little vinegar, and a handful of salt ; heat it slowly, and boil 
t for half an hoar ; after that, the water must be drained from it 
across the top of the kettle ; then place it with the back upwards, on 
the dish in which it is to be carried to table, after carefully removing 
the tapes ; brush it over with beat egg, and then strew crumbs of bread, 
pepper, and salt, over it ; finally, set it before a clear fire to brown. A 
rich sauce, made with beef-gravy instead of water, and highly seasoned 
with real cayenne pepper, salt; and catsup, must be poured in the dis^ 
arcund the fish. 



u 



nOME COOK BOOK. 



48 



Baked Cod-Fiah. — Clean the piece of cod, and malte a stuffings of 
bread-crumbs, parsley, and onions, chopped small, pepper and salt, a 
piece of butter moistened with egg ; put this stufiBng into the open 
part of the fish, and fix it in with sV ewers ; then rub the fish over 
with beat egg, and strew crumbs of bread, pepper, and salt over it; 
stick also some bits of butter on it ; set in a Dutch oven befoi-c tho 
fire to bake ; serve with melted butter or oyster-sauce 

Bried Cod-Fish. — Take the middle or tail part of a fresh cod-fish, and 
cut it into slices not quite an inch '^hick, first removing the skin. Sea- 
son them with a little salt and cayenne pepper. Have ready in one 
dish some beaten yolk of e^, and in another some .grated bread-crumbs. 
Dip each slice of fish twice into the egg, and then into the crumbs-— 
fiy in butter and serve with gravy. 

Stewed Cod-Fiah. — Take a fLne fresh cod, and cut into slices an inch 
tluck, separated from the bones. Lay the pieces of fish in the bottom 
of a stew-pan : season them with a grated nutmeg ; half a dozen blades 
of mace ; a salt^spounfuU of cayenne pepper, and a small saucer-full of 
chopped celery, or a bunch of sweet-herbs tied together. Pour on 
half a pint of oyster liquor diluted with two wine glasses or a gill ot 
water, and the juice of a lemon. Cover it close, and let it stew genitiy 
till the fish is almost done, shaking the pan frequently. Then take a 
piece of fresh butter the size of an egg ; roll it in flour, and add it tr. 
the stew. Also, put in two dozen large fine oysters, with what liquor 
there is about them. Cover it again ; quicken the fire a little, and let 
the whole continue to stew five minutes longer. Before you send it to 
table remove the bunch of sweet-herbs. 

CodrFish Cakes. — Cold boiled fresh fish, or salt codfish, is nice min 
ced fine, with potatoes, moistened with a little water, and a little but- 
ter put in, done up into cakes of the size of common biscuit, and fried 
bro^vll in pork fat or butter. 

Salmon — To Boil. — This fish cannot be too soon cooked after being 
caught; it should be put into a kettle with plenty of cold water and a hand- 
ful of salt— the addition of a small quantity of vinegar will add to the 
firmness of the fish — let it boil gently ; if four pounds of salmon, fifty 
minutes will sufiBce ; if thick, a few minutes more may be allowed. 
The best criterion for ascertaining whether it be done, is to pass 
a knife between the bone and the fish — if it separates readily, it is 
done ; this should be tried in the thickest part i when cooked, lay it 
on the fish-strainer transversely across the kettle, so that the fisli, 
wliile draining, may be kept hot. Place a fish-plate upon the dish on 
which the salmon is to be served, fold a clean white napkin, lay it 
upon the fish-plate, and place the salmon upon the napkin. Gamisb 
jvith pars'.ey. 



€6 



nOME COOK BOOK. 



Salmon— Broiled. — Cut tho fish in slices from ilie best part — each 
slice should be an inch thick ; season well with pepper and salt ; wrap 
each slice in white paper, which has been buttered with ftrsh but» 
tor ; fasten each end by twisting or tying ; broil over a very clear fire 
ciljfht minutes. A coke lire, it' kept clear and bright, is best. Servo 
with butter, or tomato sauce. 

Salmon — Roasted. Take a large piece of the middle of a very fine 
salmon, dredge well with flour, and while roasting, baste it with but- 
ter. Serve— gam i«hed with lemon. 

To bake Salmon. — Scale it, and take out the bone from the part to 
be dressed but fill up the cavity with forcemeat, and bind the piece 
with tape. Then flour it, rub it with yolk of egg, and put it into a deep 
baking-dish, covering it very thickly with cmmbs of bread, chopped 
parsley, and sweet herbs, together with shrimps, if they can be got. 
and put into the covering a few small bits of fresh butter ; place it in a 
Dutch oven, or, if already boiled and thus i-c-drcssed, heat it only 
before the tire until browned. 

To pickle Salmon. — Scale, clean, split, and divide into handsome 
ciieces the salmon ; place them in the bottom of a stew-pan, with just 
sufficient water to cover them. Put into three quarts of water one 
pint of vinegar, a dozen bay leaves, half that quantity of mace, a hand- 
ful of salt, and a quarter ounce of black pepper. "When the salmon is 
sufficiently boiled, remove it, drain it, place it upon a cloth. Put in 
the kettle another layer of salmon ; pour over it the liquor which you 
have prepared, and keep it until the salmon is done. Then remove the 
fish, place it in a deep dish or pan, cover it with the pickle, which if 
not sufficiently acid, may receive more vinegar and salt^ and be boiled 
forty minutes. Let the air be kept from the fish, and if kept for any 
length of time, it will be found necessary to occasionally drain the 
liquor from the fish ; skim, and boil it. 

To dry Salmon. — Cut the fish down, take out the inside and roe, rub 
the whole with common salt, after scaling it ; let it hang 24 hours to 
drain. Pound 3 or 4 oz. of saltpetre, according to the size of the fish, 
2 oz. of bay salt, and 2 oz. of coarse sugar ; rub these, when mixed well, 
into the salmon, and lay it in a large dish or tray 2 days ; then rub it 
well with common salt, and in 24 hours more it will be fit to dry ; 
wipe it well after draining. Hang it either in a wood chimney or in a 
dry place, keeping it open with 2 small sticks. Dried salmon is eaten 
broiled in paper, and only just warmed through, egg-sauce and mashed 
potatoes with it ; or, it may be boiled, especially the bit next the hea'l. 

To pot Salmon. — Take a large ^-iece, scale and wipe, but do not 
wash it J salt very well, lot it lie till the salt is melted and drained 
from it then season with beaten mace, cloves and whole pepper : lay io 



HOME COOK BOOS. 



4? 



py ; 

lin a 
iten 
bhed 



)ed 
ia 



ft few bay-lcavcs, put it close into a pan, cover it oyer with butter, and 
bako it ; when well dino; drain it from tite gravy, put it into the pots tn 
ke^p, and when cold cover it with clarified butter. 
In this manner you may do any lirm lislu 

Mackerel Boiled. — Cleanse the fish thorougldy inside and out, romora 
the roe can fully, steep it in vinegar and water, and replace it ; place iho 
fish in water, from which the chill has been taken, and boil very slowly 
from fifteen to twenty minutes — the best criterion is to bo found iu 
the starting of the e^ es and splitting of the tail — when th. t takes 
place the tish is done ; take it out of the water instantly, or you will 
iiot preserve it whole. Garnish with fennel or parsley, and either 
chopped tine into melted butter serve up as sauce. 

To bake Mackerel. — Opert and cleanse thoroughly, wii)e very dry, 
pepper and salt the inside, and put in a stufiing composed of bread 
crumbs finely powdered, the rue chopped small, paraley, sweet herbs, 
very few of the latter ; work together with the yolk of an egg, pepper 
and salt to taste, sew it in the fish, place the latter in a deep bakin;' 
dish, dredge it with flour slightly, add a little cold fi'osh butter in small 
pieces, put them into an oven, and twenty or thirty minutes will suffice 
to cook them. Send them in a hot dish to table, with parsley and 
butter. 

Broiled Mackerel. — Prepare by boiling a short time a little fenne\ 
parsley and mint ', when done take it from the steaks, and chop all to- 
gether fine, mix a piece of butter with it, a dust of flour, pepper and 
salt ; cut your fish down the back and fill it with this stuffing j oil 
your gridiron and oil your fish ; broil then over a clear slow fire. 

Another. — Empty and cleanse perfectly, a fine and very fresh mack- 
erel, but without opening it more than is needful j dry it well, either 
in a cloth, or by hanging it in a cool air until it is stiff; make with a 
sharp knife, a deep incision the whole length of the fish, on either side 
of the back bone, and about 1-2 an inch from it, and with a feather put 
in a little Cayenne and fine salt, mixed with a few drops of good salad 
oil, or clarified butter. Lay the mackerel over a moderate fire upon a 
well heated gridiron, which has beed rubbed with suet ; loosen it gently 
should it stick, which it will do unless often moved < and when it is 
equally done on both sides, turn the back to the fire. About 30 min* 
utes will broil it weU. 

7w broil Mackerel. — Clean and split them open ; wipe dry ; lay them 
on a clean giidiron, rubbed with suet, over a very clean slow fire; 
tui*n ; season with pepper, salt, and a little butter -j tino-»ninced pareky 
ts also used. 

Mackerel, with Brown Butter. — ^Broil the fish like the preceding 
Dish it up ; put some butter into the fryin[;-pnn ; fry it in some parsley 
•Jid poiu" the whole upon the raackcrtl j then warm in th*» pcwi ♦ 8ptiw> 



48 



HOME OOOK BOOK. 



ful of vinegar, lome sslt and pepper, which pour als^ upon the flih,aod 
■urre hot. 

Broiled Sfiad. — ¥inpty and wanh the fish with care, but do not open 
it moru than in neudlul ; llll it witlt force meat and its own roc ; then 
iew it up, or fnnten it Becur^-ly with very fine skewers, wrap it in a 
tliickly-butterod paper, and broil it gently for an hour over a charcoal 
iiiv. SevyQ it with caper sauce, or with Cayenne vinegar and melted 
butter. 

2b fry SJiad. — Clean the fish, cut off the head, and split it down the 
back ; save the roe and eggs when taking out the entrails. Cut the 
fish in pieces about 3 inches wide, rinse each in cold water, and dry 
on a cloth \ use wheat flour to rub each piece. Have ready hot salted 
lard and lay in the fish, inside down, and fry till of a fine brown, then 
turn and fry the other side. Fry the roe and egg with the fish. 

Baked Shad. — Make a force-meat of fine bread crumbs and cold ham 
—mince fine ; season with pepper, salt, and sweet maijoram ; bind 
with sweet milk on the yolk of an egg ; fill the inside of the fisli with 
the stuffing, rcsenring a portion to rnb the outaide ; after having rubbed 
over the shad with the beaten yolk of an egg, lay the fish in a deep pan, 

{)ut a little water in tlio bottom, add a glass of Port w* '^ and a pie je of 
mtter, mixed witli flour. A large shad will take an h 'o bake. Pour 
the gravy over it, and send to the table — garnished w Jces of 1 jmon. 

To pickle Shad. — Be sure that the fish are newly caught, fcr no 
other will be likely to keep. Soak them two hours in cold water ; 
B'iule ; cut ott' the heads, and open them through the back. If, after 
removing the intestines, you take out the back-bone, the fish will bo 
moi-o likely to keep sweet. As you scale lay them in fresh, cold water, 
and let them lie an hour, to soak out the blood. While this is doing 
prepare a piclJe in a following manner: To every twenty-five shad 
allow one peck of rock salt, half fine, half coarse, a pound of sugar, and 
two ounces of saltpetre. Put a layer of coarse salt in the bottom of 
the barrel, then a layer of the fish previously well rubbed with a mix- 
ture of the sugar, fine salt and saltpetre, die8L>ed in a little water, the 
remainder of which should be difiused through the whole, as you thus 
proceed, until they are all in. Lay the fish with the skin-side do>vn. 
Prepared in this way they will keep a year. Soak well before cooking. 

To hake a Sliad, Hock-fish or Bass. — Clean the fish carefully, sprin 
kle it lightly with salt and let it lie a few minutes ; then wash it, sea 
son it slightly with Cayenne pepper and salt, and fry it gently a light 
brown. Prepare a seasoning of bread crumbs, pounded cloves, parsley^ 
Cayenne pepper and salt ; strew it over and in the fish ; let it stand an 
hour. Put it in a deep dish, and set it in the oven to bake ; to a laiige fisli, 
put in the dish, the juice of a lemon made thick with loaf si:gar, 1-2 
lea-ciipful of tomato ketHmp ; to a small one allow in prcportiou th« 
same ingredients ; baste freq.uenth'; and garniibh mih sliced lemua , 



IIDMR COOK BOOK. 



49 



11 



lowig 



IDIX- 

ihe 

thus 
0A?n, 
king. 

iprin 

SCiV 

light 

rsley, 

ui an 

Ml, 

1-2 

tli« 



To keep Shad Fresh without coming. — If you wish to keep a nhad 
ever Sunday or lonp^er — on bringing home immediately icald, clian. 
^ash and split, washiu,'? dry. Gut ott' head and tail, spread the shad 
open on a dish, mix a large spoonful of brown sugar, teaspoonful o^ 
Cfayenne pepper and a teaspoonful of siUt ; rub the mirtuie thoroughly 
over the inside of the fish, coyer closely and set in a cold place until 
wanted for cooking— Just before putting it on the gridiron, take a towel 
and wipe off the whole of the seasoning — then put it on a previously 
heated gridiron, over hot coals, and broil well, butter it and send to 
table, hot — where it can be rcHseasoned to the taste of each person. 

To boil Rock-Fish, Black-Fish, and Sea Bass.— Clehn the flsh with 
scrupulous care, particularly the back-bone, then lay the fish into the 
fish-kettle and cover it witn cold water, strewing in a handful of salt 
and a small pinch of saltpetre, if you have it, and place it over a mod- 
erate fire, scum carefully and let it boil very gently until done, then 
drain and dish it nicely — garaish with hard boiled eggs cut in slices^- 
celery or anchovy sauce or plain melted butter is most suitable for 
these flsh. 

Baked Rock-Fish am^ Bass. — Having the fish well cleaned, scoro 
with deep gashes, and lurd with slices of salt pork. Make a stuflSng 
of bread-crumbs, seasoned with butter, green summer-savoury and 
sage cut fine with the scissors, pepper, salt, and. if you like, other spi- 
ces. Fill the body of the flsh with stuffing. Sew up, bringing it into 
a curve ; lay it in a deep dish, or dripping pan, on slices of salt pork | 
pour over a tea- cupful of sweet, rich cream, and bake in an oven heat* 
ed for bread, from forty to fifty minutes. 

Bass, black-fish, and shad, are delicious cooked in the same way. 

Stewed "Rock-Fish* — Take a large rock-fish, and cut it in slices neai 
an inch thick. Sprinkle it very slightly with salt^ and let it remain 
for half an hour. Slice yery thin a dozen large onions. Put them in- 
to a stew-pan with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, cut into bits. 
Set them over a slow fire, and stir them continually till they are quite 
soft, taking care not to let them become brown. Black-fish and oasa 
are equally good cooked this way. 

To souse Rock-Fish. — Boil the fish with a little salt in the water 
until it is thoroughly cooked. Reserve part of the water in which 
'it was boiled, to which add whole pepper, salt, vinegar, cloves, allspice, 
and mace, to your taste ; boil it up to extract the strength from the 
spice ; and add the vinegar after it is boiled. Cut off the head and 
tail of the fish, and divide the rest in scyeral portions. Put it ui a stoiie 
jar, and when the fish is quite cold, pour the liquor over it. It will be 
fit to use in a day or two, and will keep in a cold place two or three 
w<^ks. 3 



3Kf5f;'?^"^'.?^t**-*^*'** fl>*rt!'-»«irth^ftMP*»r»ai.* 



w 



mmmt 



60 



HOME COOK BOOS. 



Haddock. —Boil, or broil with stuffing as under, haying raited then 
fi day. 

To dry Haddock, Choose them of two or three pounds weight . 
take out the ^lls, eyes, and entrails, and remove the blood from the 
back-bone. Wipe them dry, and put some salt into the bodies and 
eyes. Lay them on a board for a night ; then hang them up in a dry 
place, and after three or four days, they will be fit to eat ; skin and 
rub them with egg, and strew crumbs over them. Jjay them before 
the fire, and baste with butter until brown enough. Serve with egg- 
sauce. 

To bake Haddock^ ^a — The scales should be scraped off but the 
tail and head must not he removed, though the spinal bone should be 
taken out, and the body stuffed with any approved forcemeat. 

Whitings, — To boil Whitings. — Having scraped, cleaned, and wiped 
them, lay them on a fish-plate, and put them into water at tho point 
of boiling J throw in a handful of salt, 2 bay-leaves and plenty of pars- 
ley, well washed and tied together ; let the ^hjust simmer from 5 to 
to mmutcs, and watch them closely that they may not be overdone. 
Serve parsley and butter with them, and use in making it the hquor in 
which the whitings have been boiled. Just simmered from 5 to 10 
minutes. 

Stureeon. — To dress fresh Sturgeon. — Cut slices, rub egg over them, 
then sprinkle with crumbs of bread, parsley, pepper, salt ; fold them 
in paper and broil gently. 

Sauce J buttar, anchovy, and soy. 

To roast Sturgeon. — Put it on a lark-spit, then tie it on a large spit ; 
baste it constantly with butter ; and serve with good gravy, an ancho- 
vy, a squeeze of Seville orange or lemon, and a glass of sherry. 

To boil Halibut. — Take a small halibut, or what you require from a 
large fish. Put it in the fish-kettle, with the back of the fish undei^ 
most, cover it with cold water, in which a handful of salt, and a bit of 
saltpetre the size of a hazel nut, have been dissolved. When it begins 
to boil, skim it carefully, and then let it just simmer till it is done. 4 
lbs. of fish will require nearly 30 minutes, to boil it. Dr .in it, garnish 
with horseradish or parsby — egg sauce or plain melted butter, are sor- 
ed with it. 

Halibut. — Stewed. — Put into a stew-pan half a pint of fish broth, a 
table-spoonful of t inegar, and one of mushroom, ketchup, two good 
sized onions, cut in quarters, a bunch of sweet herbs, add one clove of 
garlic, and a pint and a half of water ; let it stew an hour and a quar 
'^r, strain it off clear, put into it the head and shoulders of a fine hal 
tbut, and stew until tender; thicken with butter and flour, ano 
w»rvc. 






HUME COOK BOOK. 



61 



I tllCCI 

eight . 
>m the 
iS and 

a dry 
in and 

before 
th egg- 
rat the 
)uld be 



3 wiped 
30 point 
of pars- 
cm 5 to 
erdone. 
iquor in 
5 to 10 



r them, 
d them 



ge spit ; 
ancho- 



i from a 

unde)r- 

a bit of 

begins 

lone. 4 

1 garnish 

lare scr- 

)roth, a 
to good 
ilove of 
I a quar 
le hal 
ana 



lb bake Pike. — Scale it, and open as near the throat as you caii| 
then stuff it with the following : grated bread, herbs, anchoTies, oys- 
ters, suet, salt, pepper, mace, half a pint of cream, four yolks of eggs ; 
mix all over the fire till it thickens, then put it in the fish, and sew it 
up, butter should be put over it in little bits ; bake it. Serve sauce- 
of gravy, butter, and anchovy. 

To boil Perch, — First wipe or wash off the slime, then scrape off 
the scales, which adhere rather tenaciously to this fish ; empty and 
clean the insides perfectly, take out the gills, cut off the fins, and lay 
the perch into equal parts of cold and of boiling water, salted as for 
mackerel : from 8 to 10 minutes will boil them unless they are very 
large. Dish them on a napkin, garnish the^n with curled parsley, and 
serve melted butter with them. 

Trovt. — Scale, gut, clean, dry, and flour, fry them in butter imtil they 
arc a rich clear brown, fry some green parsley crisp and make some plain 
melted butter, garnish when the trout are dished witli the crisped 
parsley and lemon cut in slices ; the butter may be poured over tha 
fish, but it is most advisable to send it in a butter tureen. 

To bake Trout. — Cover the bottom of a small oval paper form with 
a few very thin slices of fat bacon, cut down the back some nicely- 
washed small trout, and having removed the bones, lay the fish open, 
flat upon the bacon ; sprinkle with chopped parsley, pepper, salt, a Uttle 
mace, and 2 cloves finely pounded. Bake 30 minutes in a quick ov^n, 
and serve in paper. 

To boil Trout. — The;^ should bo wiped dry with a coarse towel, 
rubbed from head to tail, and boiled whole, putting them into cold water 
mixed with a small quantity of vinegar, into which should be 'Uso put 
some scraped horse-radish ; let them boil gradually for about 20 to SO 
minutes, according to size, and take care not to break the skin j serve 
with plain melted butter. 

Boiled Eels. — Use small ones ; stew with plenty of parsley, in very 
little water. The parsley must be served as welL For sauce, use pars- 
ley chopped fine, and melted butter with it. 

Fried Eds. — Any size will be suitable for this purpose, but if small, 
tie head and tail together \ dip into a mixture of eggs and bread crumbs, 
and then fry. 

To Broil Eels. — The same process may be adopted by merely chang- 
mg the frying-pan for the gridiron, and wrapping the eels in bv.ttered 
paper ; but, if thought proper, the bread-crumbs and herbs may be 
omitted, as well as the envelope of paper, and the eel merely brushed 
over with the yolk of egg. Turn them frequently, and take them ug 
when quite brown. 



■'*'.* ^ 



't^'^W^ 



wm 



02 



IIOMr: COOK BOOK. 



Bied Hounders.—Cle&n the fish ; dry them m a cloth sprinkle with 
ealt ; and dredge them well with flour. Put them in hot fat, and frj 
brown, tm'uing them carefully, so as not to break the fish. 

Trout, perch, carp, or any small fish, may bo fried in the same way. 
Or if you wish to make them richer, dip each in the beater yolk of 
egg, and flour, or bread-crumbs, before frying. 

Chowder, — Take some thin pieces of pork and fry brown; cut each 
fish into seyeral pieces, place them by layers in your pork fat, sprinkle 
a little pepper and salt — add cloves, mace, sliced onions ; lay on bits 
of fried pork, if you choose, and crackers soaked in cold water ; then 
turn on water just sufficient to cover them, and put on a heated bake- 
pan lid. After stewing about twenty minutes, t^dce up the fish, ana 
mix two tea-spoonfuls of flour with a little water, and stir it into the 
gravy, adding a little pepper and butter ketchup and spices also, if you 
choose. God and bass make the best chowder. Clams and black-fish 
are tolerably good. The hard part of the clam should be cut off and 
rejected. 

Small Fish. 

Sun Fish, Fiost Fish, Smelts, Minnows, or other small fish, must be 
well cleaned and dried, and shaken in a floured cloth, and may then be 
fried either with a little butter, or in boiling fat. Or they may be first 
dipped in egg, and sprinkled with fine brcad crumbs. 

They will scarcely take more than two minutes to make them of a 
nice brown color, when they are done. Let them be drained on a hair 
sieve, before the fire, till they are pretty free from fat. 

Shell Fish. 

Lobsters to be eaten cold. — Procure the lobsters alive. lien lobsters 
are the best, as they have spawn in and about them. Put them in 
boiling water, along with some salt, and boil from half an hour to three 
quarters of an hour, or more^ according to the size. When done, take 
them out of the water and wipe the shells. Before they are quite cold, 
rub the shells with » buttered cloth. Take off the large claws, and 
crack the shells carefully, so as not to bruize the meat. Split the body 
and tail lengthwise, in two pieces. This may be done with a knife. 
Place the whole of the pieces ornamentally on a dish and garnish 
with parsley. 

Crabs to be boiled same way. -^ 

Lobster Salad— Take one or two heads of white heart lettuce ; they 
should be as fresh as possible ; lay them in spring water for an 
\iour or two ; then carefully wash them, and trim off all the withered 
or cankered leaves ; let them drain awhile, and dry them lightly in a 
clean napkin. ^ ., . 

From the Lobster. — Take out the coral, or red meat, and mince the 
remaining parts very fine. Mash the coral fine, with the yolks of four 



nOMK COOK BOOK. 



63 



hard boiled eggs, a little sweet oil, mustard, pepper, and salt, all mixed 
well, and moietened with vinegar ; incorporate this mixture thoroughly, 
with the meat ; put it on a dish ; sprinkling the whole with lettuce 
minced very fine. 

To make a Crab Pic— Procure the crabs alive, and put them in holi- 
ng water, along with some salt. Boil them for a quarter of an hour or 
twenty minutes, accoi*ding to the size. When cold, pick the meat from 
the daws and body. Chop all together, and mix it with crumbs of 
bread, pepper and salt, and a little butter. Put all this inco the shell, 
and brown before the fire. A crab shell will hold the meat of two 
crabs. 

Minced Crab, — Remove the meat, mince small, and place in a sauce- 
pan with a wineglassful of wine, pepper and salt, nutmeg, cayenne, and 
two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Let it stew for ten minutes ; melt a 
piece of butter the size of a hen's egg with an anchovy and the yolks 
of two e^s ; beat up and mix well ; stir in with the crab, and add 
suflBcient stale bread crumbs to thicken ; garnish with thin toast, cut 
with a pastry leaf-cutter, or with the claws and parsley. — ^Lobster may 
be done thus. 

Oysters Stewed. — Take a pint of oysters, gently simmer them in their 
own strained liquor. Beard them and add a quarter of a pint of cvoam ; 
season with pounded mace, cayenne, and salt ; add two ounces of butter 
and a dessert spoonful of flour, then simmer for a short time. Lay Iho 
oysters in the dish upon a piece of toast, and pour the sauce over. Tht 
cream may be omitted..if thought proper. 

To fry Oysters. — Make thick batter of eggs, milk, flour, pepper, and 
salt, and dip the oysters singly in the batter ; after which, fry them in 
dripping or lard in a frying-pan, being careful that they do not stick 
together. A sauce may be used, composed of the liquor of the oysters, 
thickened with flour and butter, and seasoned with Cayenne pepper and 
a little ketchup. 

Mussels may be dressed in the same manner, but several are dipped 
together in the batter, by means of a spoon, and so fried together. 

Broiled Oysters. — ^Take the largest and finest oysters. See that 
your gridiron is very clean. Rub the bars with fresh butter, and set it 
over a clear steady fire, entirely clear from smoke ; or on a bed of 
bright- hot wood coals. Place the oysters on the gridiron, and when 
done on one side, take a f< »rk and turn them on the other ; being care- 
ful not to let them bum. Put some fresh butter in the bottom of a 
dish. Lay the oysters on it, and season them slightly with pepper 
•Send them to table hot. 

For Oyster Patties.— Mske some rich puff-paste, and bake it in very 
small tin patty-pans. When cool, turn them out upon a large dish 
Stew some large fresh oysters with a few cloves, a little mace and cut* 



54 



HOME COOK BOOK 



meg, some yolk of egg boiled hard and grated, a little butter and as 
much of the oyster liquor as will cover them. When they have stewed 
a little while, take them out of the pan, and set them away to cool. 
When quite cool, lay two or three oysters in each shell of puff-pR&te. 

To pickle Oysters. Wash four dozen of the largest oysters you can 
get in their own liquor, wipe them dry, strain the liquor off, adding to 
it a desert-spoonful of pepper, two blades of mace, a table-spoonful of 
§alt, if the liquor be not very salt, three of white wine, and four of 
vinegar. — Simmer the oysters a few minutes in the liquor, then put 
them in small jars, and boil the pickle up, skim it, and when cold, pour 
over the oysters : cover close. 

Oyster Pie. — Line a deep dish with a fine puff paste. Lay a plate 
of the same size over the top, to support the upper crust, which you 
must lay on, and bake, before the oysters are put in, ae in the time re- 
quired for cooing the paste^ they would be over-done. While the 
paste is baking, prepare the oysters. Take their liquor, and having 
strained, thicken it with the yolk of egg, either boiled hard and grated, 
or beaten thoroughly, and a piece of butter rolled in bread-crumbs. 
Season with mace and n'ltmeg. Stew the whole fi\e minutes, or till 
well doce. Carefully i-cmove the cover from the pie ; take out the 
plate ; put in the oysters, with their gravy ; replace the cover, and send 
to table, hot. If you like the pie dryer, put in only half the liquor. 
You may make flowers of strips of the paste, and garnish the crust 

Clams. — To boil clams wash them well from the loose pand, put 
but very little water in the pot, as soon as the shells open they are 
done, ta«e them out, wash each one carefully in the liquor, cut off the 
black portions, lay them in a saucepan with some of the liquor, a piece 
of butter rolled in flour, with a little pepper and vinegar, heat scalding 
hot, and serve. 

Clams Roasted.— L&j them on a gridiron or hot coals till the shells 
open — then take them out and preserve the liquor to serve with them. 

To boil Soft-shell Chmis.— When the shells are vrashed clean, put the 
clams in a pot with the edges downwards ; pour a quart of boiling 
water over them to open the shells ; set them over the fire for nearlj 
an hour. When they are done the shells will be wide open ; then 
take them out of the shells, trim off the black skin that covers the hard 
part ; put thom in a stew-pan with some of their own liquor, to which 
add butter, pepper, and salt. Let them boil a few minutes. 

To fry Hard'-slieU Clams. — Take the large sand clams; wash them 
in their own liquor , beat well the yolks of 4 eggs with a little pepper 
and a table-spoonful of fine flour. Dip in the clams and fry them in 
butter a hght brown. 

Clam Fritters. — Take 50 soft shell clams cut the hard stem of^ and 
tzwnine it carefully to see that none of the shell remains on it, wash 



' 



and as 

Btewed 
to cool, 
f-paste. 

|rou can 
[ding to 
>nful of 
four of 
[len put 
Id, pour 

a plate 
lich you 
time re- 
bile the 
1 having 
d grated, 
-crumbs. 
js, or till 

out the 
ind send 
le liquor, 
crust. 

[and, put 
hey are 
t off the 
', a piece 
scalding 

le shells 
th them. 

put the 
boilipg 
near]} 

i; then 
the hard 
which 

sh them 
pepper 
;hem in 

ofi^ and 
it, wash 



HOME 000£ BOOK. 



55 



tliem well and chop fine, then beat up 2 eggs, add a pint of milk, a little 
nutmeg, and as much salcratus as will coyer a shilling, add flour enough 
to make a batter, put in the clams, stir well together and fry in lord or 
drippings. 

Clam P/e.— Take a sufficient number of clams to fill a lai*ge pie-dish' 
when opened. Make a Lice paste in the proportion of a pound of fresh 
butter to two quarts of flour. Paste for shell-fish, or meat, or chicken 
pies should be rolled out double .the thickness of that intended for fruit 
pies. Line the sides and bottom of your pie-dish with paste. Then 
cover the bottom with a thin beef-steak, divested of bone and fat. Put 
in the clams, and season them with mace, nutmeg, and a few whole 
pepper-corns. No salt. Add a spoonful of butter rolled in flour, and 
some hard-boiled yolks of eggs crumbled fine. Then put in enough of 
the clam-liquor to make sufficient gravy. Put on the lid of the pie 
(which Uke the bottom crust should be rolled out thick,) notch it hand 
somely, and bake it welL It should be eaten warm. 



HEATS. 

The best apparatus for roasting is the tin oven— or tin kitchen, as it 
is generally called ; and the next to this is the open baker, with reflec- 
tors, to set before the fire ; but roasting, u. most families of these days, 
has degenerated into baking. 

In roasting the sirloin or any piece of beef, if an open fire is used 
precaution must be taken to prevent its being too close to the fire where 
there is much fat, and it is desired to preserve it from being cooked 
before the lean, it may be covered with clean white paper skewered 
over it ; when it is nearly done the paper should be removed, a little 
flour dredged over it, and a rich frothy appearance will be obtained. 
The joint should be served up with potatoes and other vegetables ; the 
dish should be gamif^hed round the edge with horse-radish scraped 
into thin curls. This receipt will suffice for all the other roasting parts 
of beef. 

Sirloin weighmg ten pounds, will take two hours and a half to roast 
it. Rather more time must be allowed in cold than in hot weather- 
about twenty minutes to the pound is a safe rule. 

Rump of Beef. — This is one of the most juicy of all the joints of 
beef. As it is too large to serve whole, generally, cut as much from 
the chump end to roast as will make a handsome dish. Manage it an 
the sirloin. When boned and rolled into the form of a fillet of veal, 
it requires more time. 



mm 




NMM 



•trn f - jHii 



M 



UOME OOOE BOOK. 



\ 



Beef A-LarMouc. — Remove the bone from a romid, or any pioce of 
heet that will stew well. Make a stuffing of bread crumbs seasoned 
with sweet marjoram, pepper, mace, nutmeg, and onions, or shalotfc 
chopped fine. Mix this together with two eggs well beaten, and add, 
if you like, some chopped salt pork. Fill the place from which the 
bone was taken with this seasoning, rubbing what is left over the out- 
■ide of the meat. Bind, and skewer it well, to secure the stuffing. You 
may stick whole cloves into the meat here and there ; or lard it with 
fat pork. Cover the bottom of your stewpan wiUi slices of ham, of 
Halt pork ; and having put in the meat, lay slices of the ham, or pork, 
over it. Pour in about a pint of water ; cover the pan closely, and 
bake in an oven six, seven, or eight hours, according to the size of the 
piece. Add, if you like, a tea-cupful of port wine, and the same of 
mushroom ketchup to the gravy ; but it is very good without win& 
This dish is best cold. 

Dripping. — Roast beef yields a drippmg, which is a valuable article 
in the economy of the kitchen. It should bo removed from the pan 
beneaf^h the meat before it becomes overheated, or scorched by the fire, 
leaving sufficient for basting. Dripping is prepared for future use in 
the following manner : — As taken hot from the dripping-pan, pour it in- 
to boiling water, when all particles of cinder or other improper matter 
will fall to the bottom, and leave the pure &t on the surface. Coir 
feet these cakes of fat, and by heating them in a Jar, placed in a sauco 
pan of boiling water, the whole will become a soUd mass, and may be 
thus put aside for use. This process not only purifies drippinjz, <)ut 
gives it a clear white colour. A little salt m'ost be infused, to amsl in 
preserving it. 

Beef Heart Roasted. — ^Wash thoroughly, stuff with forcemeat, send 
to table as hot as it is possible with currrant jelly sauce ; it will take 
Ikbout forty minutes roasting, but this depends upon the fire. 

Beef Heart. — Let it be thoroughly well cooked, and the skin remov- 
ed. Wipe it daily with a clean cloth, stuff it with veal stuffing ; roasi 
two hours and a quarter. Make a brown gravy, as for hare j and serve 
with the gravy and currant jelly. 

The most pleasant way to the palate of dressing this dish, is to roasf 
the heart rather less than two hours, let it get cold, cut it in pieces, 
and jug it the same as hare. 

To Stew Kidneys. — Cut the kidneys into slices ; wash them, and 
dry them with a clean cloth ; dust them mih flour, and fry them with 
butter until they are brown. Pour some hot water or beef gravy in- 
to the pan, a few minced onions, pepper, and salt, according to taste | 
imd add a spoonful or two of mushroom ketihup before dishing. Min- 
oed herbs are considered an improvement tc many tastes — cook slow\f 
ten or fifteen minutes. 



IIOMK COOK B<WK. 



5? 



litice of 
lasoned 
shalotb 
id add, 
ch the 
,he out- 
tg. You 
it with 
ham, Of i 
^rpork, 
ly, and 
) of the 
ame of 
it winO' 

e article 

the pan 

the fire, 

reuse in 

)ur it in- 

r matter 

5. Coir 

asauc& 

may be 

>in^, but 

as&islin 



remov- 

|g; roasi 

id serve 

to roasi 
pieces^ 

kem, and 
Lem with 
^ravy in- 

taste I 
Min- 

slowlj 



7b Stew a Piece oj Beef or Make Beef Bouilli.—Tuke a piece of 
beef J the brisket or rump, or auy othsr piece that will become ten- 
der. Put a little butter in the bottom of the stew-pan, and then put- 
ting in the meat, partially fry or browr it all over. Then take it out 
and lay two or three skewers at the bottom of the pan ; after which 
replace the meat, which will be prevented from sticking to the pan by 
means of the skewers. Next put in as much water as will cover the 
meat. Stew it slowly with the pan closely covered, till done, with a 
few onions if required. Two hours are reckoned enough for a piece of 
six or eight pounds. When ready, take out the meat, and thicken the 
gravy with a Uttle butter and flour. Cut down into handsome shapes a 
boiled carrot and turnip, and add them to the liquor ; season with 
pepper, and salt, and a little ketchup. Buil all together for a few min 
utes, and serve in a hash dish. 

To Mince Beef. — Shi«d the underdone part fine, with some of the 
fat ; put it into a small stew-pan, with some onion or shalot (a very lit- 
tle will do), a little water, pepper, and salt ; boil it till the onion is 
quite soft ; then put some of the gravy of the meat to it, and the mince. 
Do not let it boil. Have a small hot dish with siprets of bread ready, 
and pour the mince into it, but first mix a large ipoonful of vinegar 
with it : if shalot-vinegar is used, there will be no i eed of the onion nor 
the raw shalot. 

To Hash Beef. Do it the same as in the last receipt, only the mea\. 
is to be in sUces, and you may add a spoonful of walnut-liquor or ket- 
chup. 

Observe, that it is owing to boiling' hashes or minces that they get 
harft. All sorts of stews, or meat dre&sed a second time, should be 
only simmered ; and this last only hot through. 

SteaJes — Broiled. — They should not be cut more than three quarteiv 
of an inch thick, or they will not be dcTifi well through. Let the grid- 
u-on be perfectly clean, and heat and grease it before laying on the 
meat. Set it over a bed of ckar bright coals, and when done oi^ one 
side turn the steaks with tongs made for the purpose, or a knife and 
fork, in a quarter of an hour they will be wel done ; or if you like 
them rare, ten or twelve minutes will b*» suflBcient. Pour oflf into a 
dish, and save all the gravy that accum..]atis while boiling ; and when 
done lay the steaks in a dish, and seas.,^! Lj your taste with pepper, 
salt, and butter. Serve hot. 

To fry Beef-Steaks. — Cut the steaks as for broiling, and, on being 
put into the pan, shift and turn them treruently. Let them be done 
brown all over, and placed in a hot dish when finished. Gravy may 
be made by pouring a little hot water ini<.» the pan after the steaks are 
out, and the fat poured away, with a littk pepper, salt, ketchup, and 
flour. The gravy so formed is to be p'ju-ed into the dish with the 
%%aks. Serve to ta) lie immediately. 

3* 



es 



HOME COOK BOOK. 



If ofltous be required along with the dish, cut them in thin slices 
ftod fry them till they are soft. They should be fried after the steaks 
and merely with part of the fat in which the beef has been fried. 

Beefsteak Pie. — A good common paste for meat-pies, and which 
is intended to be eaten, is made as follows : Three ounces of butter, 
and one pound of flour, will be sufficient for one dish. Rub the but- 
ter well amongst the flour, so as to incorporate them thoroughly. If the 
butter be fresh, add a Uttle salt. Mix up the flour and butter with as 
much cold water 8S will make a thick paste. Knead it quickly on a 
board, and roll it out flat with a rolling pin. Turn the dish upside 
down upon the flattened paste, and cut ov shape out the piece required 
for the cover. Roll out the parings, and cut them into strips. Wet 
the edges of the dish, and place these strips neatly round on t' . edges. 
as a foundation for the cover. Then take some slices of tender beef 
mixed with fat ; those from the rump are the best. Season them with 
pepper and salt, and roll each slice up in a small bundle, or lay them 
flat in the dish. Put in a little gravy or cold water, and a Little flour 
for thickening. Then, after putting in the meat, lay the cover on the 
dish, pressing down the edges closely to keep all tight. If any paste 
remain cut or stamp it into ornaments, such as leaves, and place these 
as a decoration on the cover. 

On taking pies from the oven, and while qmte hot, the crust may bo 
glazed with white e^ and water beat together, or sugar and water, laid 
on with a brush. 

To dressBeef Tongues. — To dress them, boil the tongue tender, it 
will take five hours ; always dress them as they come out of the pickle^ 
onless they have been very long there, then they may be soaked, three* 
iT four hours in cold water, or if they have been smoked, and hung 
ong, they should be softened by lying in water five or six hours j thejr 
should be brought to a boil gently, and then simmer untill tender ; 
«7hen they have been on the fire about two hours, and the scum remov- 
ed as it rises, throw in a bunch of sweet herbs of a tolerable size, it 
will improve the flavour of the tongue. 

Tripe. — May be served in a tureen, stewed with milk and onioo till 
tender. Melted butter for sauce. 

Or fry it in small bits dipped in butter. 

Or stew the thin part, cut into bits, in gravy • thicken with flour and 
butter, and add a little ketchup. 

Or fricassee it with white sauce. 

Soused IVipc— Boil the tripe, but not quite tender; then put it in- 
to salt and water, which must be changed every day till it is aU used. 



"W hen you dress the tripe, dip it into a 
fry it of a good brown. 



batter of flour and eggs, and 



FroME COOK B00&. 



69 



it in- 
uBed. 



VEAL. 

To Keep Veal. — The first part that turns bad of a leg of vcal, is 
Kbere the udder is skewered baci<. The skewer should b^ taken out, 
and both that and the part under it wiped every day, by which means 
it will keep g:ood three or four days in hot weather. Take care to cut 
out the pipe that runs along the chine of a loin of veal, as you do ol' 
beef, to hinder it from tainting. The skirt of a breast of veal is like-, 
wise to be taken off; and the inside of the breast wiped and scraped, 
and sprinkled with a little salt 

Leg of Veal. — Let the fillet be cut large or small as best suits the 
number of your company. Take out the bone, fill the space with a fine 
Btuflflng, and let it be skewen^d quite round ; and send the large side 
uppermost. When half roasted, not before, put a paper round the fat ; 
and take care ^,o allow a sufficient time, and put it a good distance 
from the fire, as the meat is solid : serve with melted butter Doured 
over it. — You may pot some of it. 

knuckle of Veal— As few people are fond of boiled veal, it may be 
well to leave the knuckle small, and take off some cutlets or coUops be- 
fore it is dressed ; but as the knuckle will keep longer than the fillet, 
it is best not to cut off the slices till wanted. Break the bones, to make 
it take less room ; wash it well, and put it into a sauce-pan with three 
onions, a blade of mace or two, and a few pepper-corns ; cover it with 
water, and simmer till quite ready. In the mean time some macaroni 
should be boiled with it if approved, or rice, or a little rice-flour, to give 
it a small degree of thickness ; but do not put too much. Before it is 
served, add half a pint of milk and cream, and let it come up either with 
or without the meat. 

Shoulder of Veal. — B«move the knuckle and roast what remains, as 
the fillet ; it may or may not be stuffed at pleasure ; if not stuffed 
serve with oyster or mushroom sauce j if stuffed, with melted butter. ' 

To roast Veai,- -The bef.t parts of veal for roasting are the fillet, the 
breast, the loin, and vhe shoulder. The fillet and the breast should be 
stuffed, particularly the fillet ; the stuffing to be composed of crumbs 
of bread, chopped suet and parsley, a little lemon peel, and pepper and 
salt, wet with an egg and a little milk. The piece should have a slow 
fire at first, and will require longer time to dress than beef or mutton. 
Let it be well basted with butter when there is not snflficient dripping 
from the joint. The gravy for roast veal is either the usual hot water 
and salt, or thin melted butter, poured over the meat. 

lo boil Calfs Head. — Clean it very nicely, and soak it in water, that 
It may look very white ; take out the tongue to salt, and the brains to 
make a little dish; Boil the head extremely tender ; then strew it 



CO 



noMK COOK HOOK. 



over witli crumbs and chopped parsley, and brown them ; or if likod 
better, leave one side plain. Serve bacon and greens to eat with it. 

The brains must be boiled, and then mixed with melted butter, scald- 
ed sage chopped, pepper and salt. 

If any of the head is left, it may be hashed next day, and a few 
slices of bacon, just warmed and put round. 

Cold calf's head eats well if grilled. 

Minced Veal. — Cut cold veal as fine as p^ ssible, but do not chop it. 
Put to it a very little lemon-peel shred, two grates of nutmeg, some saU, 
and four or five spoonfuls of either a little weak broth, milk, or water ; 
simmer these gently with the meat, but take care not to let it boil, and 
add a bit of butter rubbed in flour. Put sippets of thin toasted bread, 
cut into a three-cornered shape round the dish 



e- 



yeal Cutlets with fine Herbs. — Melt a piece of butter in the fryin[ 
pan ; put -n the cutlets with salt, pepper, and some spice ; move them 
about in the butter for five minutes ; have ready some mixed herbs and 
mushrooms chopped finely; sprinkle half over one side of the cutlets, 
and, when fried enough, turn and sprinkle them with the other half ; 
finish frying, and add the juice of a lemon ; set them round the dish 
with the seasoning in the centre. 

Ft'ench icay of dressing a akoulder of Veal — Cut the veal into nice 
square pieces or mouthfuls, and parboil them. Put the bone and trim- 
mings into another pot, and stew them slowly a long time, in a very 
little water, to make the gravy. Then put the meat into the dish in 
which it is to go to table, and season it with a very little salt and cay- 
enne pepper, the yellow rind of a large lemon grated, and some pow- 
dered mace and nutmeg. Add some bits of fresh butter rolled in flour, 
or some cold dripping of roast veal. Strain the gravv and pour it in. 
Set it in a hot dutch-oven, and bake it brown. 

To roast Sweet-breads. — Sweet-breads should bo soaked in warm 
water, and then blanched by being thrown into boiling water, boiled 
for a few minutes, and then put into cold water. They may then bo 
larded and roasted or fried, and afterwards stewed in butter with 
crumbs of bread, and being of themselves rather insipid, they will be 
improved by a relishing sauce and by a large quantity of herbs in the 
braise. Skins of lemon put upon the sweet-breads while braising will 
heighten the flavor, and keep them white ; which is very desirable 
when sent to table with white sauce. The usual sauce witi" which 
they are served is butter and mushroom ketchup. They may be roasted 
in a dutch-oven. 

Calces' Feet. — They shonl J be very clean, boil them three hours, oi 
until they a; » tender, serve tlK>m with parsley and butter. 



HOME COOK BOOK. 



«l 



in. 



01 



Calf ^8 Heart.— Stuff and roafct precieely as beef heart See page 56. 

Calf^a hirer roasted. — Wash and wipe it ; then cut a long hole in it 
and stuff it with crumbs of bread, chopped anchovy, herbs, a. good dea/ 
of fkt bacon, onion, salt, pepper, a bit of butter and an e^: sew tlte 
liyer up ; then lard it, or wrap it in a vcal-cawl, and rOast it. 

Serve with a good brown gravy, and currant jelly. 

Cutlets another way — Cut sUces about three quarters of an inch 
thick, beat them with a rolling pin, and wet them on both udes with 
an egg : dip them into a seasoning of bread-crumbs, parsley, thyme, pep- 
per, salt; and a little nutmeg grated ; then put them into papers fouled 
over, and boil them ; and have in a boat melted butter with a little 
mushroom-ketchup. 

Veal Olires. — Take some cold fillet of veal and cold ham, and cut 
them into square slices of the same size and shape, trimming the edges 
evenly. Lay a slice of veal on every slice of Lam, and spread some 
beaten yolk of egg over the veal. Have read v a thin force-meat, made 
of grated bread-crumbs, sweet-marjoram rubbed fine, fresh butter, and 
grated lemon-peel, seasoned with nutmeg and a little cayenne pepper. 
Spread this over the veal, and then roll up each slice tightly with the 
ham. Tie them round securely with coarse thread or fine twine ; run a 
bird-spit through them, and roast them well. For sauce, simmer in a 
small sauce-pan, some cold veal gravy with two spoonfuls of cream 
and some mushroom ketchup. 

Calves^ Tone^ues. — Wash them well, and put them in hot water for 
a short time, in order to take off the hard skin ; lard them here and 
there with large pieces of bacon ; put them in a saucepan so as to yield 
a little gravy, with two or three large onions and carrots. When the 
whole Is well glazed, add some water, salt, a clove, and a sprig of 
thyme, and let it simmer very slowly for five hours. Just before serving, 
skim the sauce, thicken it with some flour ; open each tongue in half, 
BO that it forms a heart shape, and pour the sauce over ; adding to it 
either some pickled gherkins sliced, or some mushrooms. 

Calves' tongues may, moreover, be prepared like those of oxen. 

Potted Veal. — This may be potted as bee^ or thus: — pound cold 
veal in a mortar, work up with it in a powder mace, pepper, and salt, 
shred the leanest part of tongue very finely, or ham is sometimes used 
place in a jar or pot a layer of the pounded veal, and upon that a layei 
of the tongue, and continue alternately until the pot is full, seeing that 
every layer is well pressed down ; pour over the top melted clarified 
butter. If it is desired, and which is frequently done, to marble the 
veal, cut the tongue cr ham in square dice instead of shredding jt, bul 
care must be taken that they d ) not touch each other or the effect it 
destroyed. 



'"Sf 



62 



UOMB COOK BOOK. 



Calte^ Brains — Waflli thorn, remove the skin, and scald. l>rj 
tlicm well, fry thoin In butter, Horve with nmshroom saiico. Instead 
of this when cleaned and scalded, chop thotn flncly, shnmer thom 
with ranHhrooinfi, onioni, parsley, sago, and white sonce, seasoa 
highly, serve with fHod parsley. 

Veal Pie. — Take about two pounds of ycal from the loin, fillet, or 
anv odd pieces you may have. Parboil enough to clear it of the scum. 
If it is to be done in a pot, make a yery light ps\Pte according to (\\vti<i- 
tions for such purposes ; roll it out rather thick ; and having your pot 
well greased lav it round the sides, cutting out pieces to prevent thick 
folds, as the circle diminishes. Put in a layer of meat, with salt and 
pepper. Enrich with butter, or slices of salt pork, and dredge in a 
tittle flour. So proceed until you have put all in. Cover with paste, 
and cut a hole in the top lor the escape of the steam. Pour in a por- 
tion of the water, in which the meat was boiled. Set it over a 
slow fire ; watch tnat it does not bum ; and if it get too dry, add more 
of the same water, through the hole in the top. If you wish the crust 
brown, cover the top with a heater or bake-pan cover. It will be done 
in an hour and a half. 

If the pie is baJccd make a richer crust, in the proportion of a pound 
of butter to two pounds of llour ; put it in a pan, in the same manner 
as above ; notch the edges of the paste handsomely and bake about the 
same time. 

MUTTON. 

Roast Leg of Mutton. — Put the leg iiito an iron saucepan with 
enough cold water to cover it, let it come to a boil gently, parboil it by 
simmering only ; have the spit or jack ready, and take it from the hot 
water and put it to the ' re instantly ; it will take from an hour to an 
hour and a half if large, and less time if smaU. 

Shoulder of Mutton. — Must be well roasted and sent to table with 
ckin a nice orown, it is served with onion sauce. This is the plainest 
fashion, and for small families the best. 

Saddle of Mutton. — This joint like the haunch, gains much of its 
flavour from hanging for some period, the skin should be taken oft', but 
skewered on agam until within rather more than a quarter of an hour 
of its being done, then let it be taken o% dredge the saddle with flour, 
baste well. The kidneys may be removed or remain at pleasure, but 
the fat which is found within the saddle should be removed previous 
to cookmg. 

Neck of Mutton. — This dish is most useful for broth, but may bo 
made a pleasant dish by judicious cooking. To send it to table merely 
boiled or baked is to disgust the partaker of it. When it is cooked as 



nOMB COOK BOOK. 



63 



tliom 
msoD 



et, or 
icum. 

ir pot 
thick 
It and 
;o in a 
paste, 
a por- 
)ver a 
I more 
9 cruat 
le done 

I pound 
[nanner 
out tho 



in with 
.il it by 
llhc hot 
to an 

lie with 
)laine8t 

of its 
I off, but 
in hour 
[h. flour, 
ire, but 
Ircvioiui 



lay bo 
Imerely 
akedaa 



« single dlhh, first boil It slowly until nearly done, then having mola- 
tenod a quantity of bread crumbs and sweet herbs, chopped very Una 
with the yolk of an esg, let the mutton be covered with it, and placred 
in a Dutch or American oven before the fire, and served when nicely 
browned. The breast may be cooked in the same manner. 

To boil a L}g of Mutton. — A leg of mutton should be kept four or five 
days before boiling. Before putting it into the pot, bend round the 
flhank, cutting the tendon at the joint if necessary, so as to shorten the 
leg. Two hours of slow equal boiling will be sufficient for a good-sized 
leg of mutton. Some persons, to make the leg look white and taHteful, 
wrap it tightly in a cloth in boiling ; but this spoils the liquor for broth. 
It is not safe to boil vegetables with a leg of mutton, as they are apt to 
flavour the meat. Dish the leg with a litttle of the liquor, placing the 
lower side uppermost, conveniently for carving. A good leg of mutton 
will yield sufficient gravy. 

Turaips mashed or whole form the appropriate vegetable to be eaten 
with this dish. 

Loin of Mutton Stewed, — Remove the skin, bone it, and then roll it, 
put it in a stewpan with a pint and a half of water, two dessert-spoon- 
fuls of p3rroligneous acid, a piece of butter, sweet herbs, and an onion 
or two ; when it has stewed nearly four hours strain the gravy, add 
two spoonfuls of red wine, hot up and serve with jelly sauce. 

Breast of Mutton. — May be stewed in gravj until tender, bone it. 
score it, season well with cayenne, black pepper, and salt, boil it, ana 
while cooking skim the fat from the gravy in which it has been stewed, 
slice a few gherkins, and add with a dessert spoonful of mushroom 
ketchup ; boU it, and pour over the mutton when diished. 

Mutton Hashed. — Cut the remains of a cold leg or shoulder of mut- 
ton into thin slices, whether fat or lean; flour and pepper well and 
leave on the dish. Boil the bones, well broken up, with a few onions 
minced well, add some salt, a little mushroom ketchup and the hashed 
meat ; warm over a slow Are, but do not let it boil ; then add port wine 
and currant jelly, or omit, as you please. If the former, it will impart 
a venison flavour, if the latter method is adopted it will be plain. 

To Dress Mutton Hams, — Soak the ham for five or six hours in cold 
spring water unless it has only recently been cured, then cne hour 
will sufiice ; put it into cold water, boil gently ; it '.vill be done in two 
hours and a half. It is eaten cold. 

To Boil a Sheep's Head. — Soak and wpsh the head in cold water 
taking care to remove all the splinters of the bones, and to clean tlie 
brains tnoroughly of all the skin and blood. Put it into a saucepan, 
cover it with lukewarm water and a good spoonful of salt ; let it bou 
tery gently, skimming it well from time to time. "When it has boiled 



MM* 



9^ 



UCME COOK BOOK. 






about an hour, take off aV. the iat ; and having cut vp a good si^ed onion 
two turnips, a carrot, a small head of celery, tind a sprig or two of 

Earsley, put them into the broth with a little thyme and a crust of 
read toasted brown ; cover up the saucepan, and let the broth simmei 
gently for an hour and a half when the head will be done. Serve il 
up with the brains chopped up in melted butter, poured over it, ana 
turnips in another dish. SeiTe the broth, which will be excellent, iii 
a tu?een. 

To Fry Mutton Chops. — They require to be cut in the same manner 
as for broiling, and may be dressed according to the preceding direc- 
tions for steakis. None cf the grease which flows from the chops is to 
be used along with them, and the whole must be poured away before 
preparing the gravy. 

To Broil Mutton Chops. — Mutton-chops should not be broiled on too 
fierce a fire, otherwise the fat will cause the fire to flare, and che chops 
will be smoked and blackened. Pepper them and salt them the same 
as beefsteaks ; but, unlike those, mutton chops require constant turning ; 
they should not ^ 3 overdone. 

When they are done enough, lay them in a hot dish and sprinkle 
the. a .with salt ; they require no butter, the chops being sufficiently 
fat. 

Irish Stew. — Put two pounds of breast of mutton into a pot, with a 
pint and a half of water and a pinch of salt ; let it stew gently for an 
hour ; then take off all the fat ; take out the meat and cut it into smaU 
pieces ; have ready four pounds of potatoes, pared and cut in halves ; 
three or four good sized onions, peeled and sliced, and pepper and salt 
mixed in a cup. When you have taken the fat oi. the brotb as closely 
4U possible, put in a layer of potatoes ; then sprinkle two or three pieces 
of meat with the pepper and .salt, and lay them on the potatoes, then 
a layer of the sliced onions, then another layer of potatoes, one of mut* 
ton, then one of onions, and so on till the whole is in. Cover close 
and let it stew very gently for another hour, shaking it frequently 
that it may not bum. 

To Broil Kidneys. — Split them through lengthways and run an iron 
skewer through them to keep them flat j pepper them, and broil them 
over a clear fire. They should be lightly done. Serve them in a xoey 
hot disli, sprinkle them with salt, and put a bit of butter on each. 



»(*.- f. ----»»' 



HOME COOK BOOK. 



C5 



tnion 
of 
ist of 
minei 
rve il 
;, and 
snt, il* 



lanner 
(Hreo- 
6 is to 
before 

on too 
B chops 
B same 
liming; 

jprinkl© 
aciently 



;, with a 
(T for an 
[to small 
halves *, 
md salt 
closely 
;e pieces 
8, then 
of mut- 
jr close 
[quently 



an iron 
}U them 
avciy 
ch. 



.. -' '.■.■-'-... LAMB. 

To Roast Lamb. — Lamb requires to be well roasted, as, if not siiflB- 
eiently done, it will fail to acquire that delicate taste so |)ecu]iar to it. 
It is commonly dressed in quarters. Lamb should be well jointed or 
chopped by the butcher as it is such a deUcate sort of meat, that it 
becomes altogether disfigured, if the carver is compelled to hack and 
pull it in pieces. In roasting, baste with its own dripping, and after 
pouring oif all the fat, serve it up in a hot dish with the gravy that 
remains after the fat is poured off. In serving up a fore-quarter, tho 
cook should divide the shoulder neatly from the ribs, and after squeez- 
ing the juice of half a lemon on the ribs, cover the shoulder closely 
over again. It is usual to send up with lamb, mint-sauce in a tureen. 

To Roast a Shmiider of Lamb {savoury). — Score the joint with cuts 
an inch deep, rub it ov with butter first, theu season it with pepper 
and salt, and sweet-herbs ; rub over these the yolk of an egg, and roll 
it in bread-crumbs ; roast i* a light brown. When suflicicntly cooked 
pour off the fat in the dripping-pan, and make a gravy of that which 
remains, seasoning with pepper and salt, tomato or mushroom-ketchup, 
the grated rind and juice of a lemon, thickened with a little flour. Put 
'he lamb on a clean hot dish and pour the gravy over it. 

• To Boil a Leg of Lamb. — A leg of lamb is a delicate dish when nice 
*T boiled. If whiteness is desirable, wrap it in a clean cloth ; only the 
jquor will then be spoiled for broth. Boil one of five pounds gently 
for about an hour and a half. When you dish it, cut the loin into 
chops, fry them, and lay round it. Sauce, plain melted butter, or pars- 
ley and butter. 

To Fry Lamb Chops. — Lamb chops may be either simply fried in 
the same manner as mutton chops, or dressed with egg and crumbs 
of bread (but with no parsley), as in the case of cutlets. Gravy made in 
the pan, as for fried steaks. 

A very nice dish. — Take the best end of a neck of lamb, cut into 
steaks, and chop each bone so short as to make the steaks almost 
round. Egg, and strew with crumbs, herbs, and seasoning ; fry them 
of the fine!>t brown ; mash some potatoes with a little butter and 
cream, and put them into tho middle of the dish raised high. Then 
place the edge of one steak on another with the small bone upward 
all round the potatoes. 



mfmmmmmm 



Ov 



HOME COOK BOOK. 



'..;^^ :'>^^,.;< ■' ; ■ VENISON. ._.'■' 

To "keep Venison, — Keep the venison dry, wash it with milk and 
water very clean, and dry it with clean cloths till not the leant damp 
remains ; then duet pounded ginger over every part, which is a very 
good preventive against the fly. By thus mans^ing and watching, it 
«^ill hang a fortnight. When to be used, wash it with a little luke- 
warm water, and dry it. Pepper is likewise good to keep it. 

Roast Venison. — A haunch of buck will take three hours and a half 
or three quarters roasting ; doe, only three hours and a quarter. Ven 
ison should be rather under than over done. 

Spread a sheet of white paper with butter and put it over t' -t, 
first sprinkling it with a little salt ; then lay a coarse paste on strong 
paper and cover the haunch, tie it with fine pack-thread, and set it at 
a distance from the fire, which must be a good one. Baste it often j 
ten minutes before serving take otF the paste, draw the meat nearer 
the firc, and baste it with butter and a good deal of flour to make it 
froth up well. 

Gravy for it should be put into a bo»t^ and not into the dish (unless 
the venison has none,) and made thus : — Cut off" the fat from two or 
three pounds of a loin of old mutton, and set it in steaks on a gridiron 
for a few minutes, just to brown one side ; put them into a sauce-pan 
with a quart of water, cover close for an hour, and simmer it gently ; 
then uncover it and stew till the gravy is reduced to a pint. Season 
with onlv salt. 

Currant-jelly sauce must be served in a boat. 

To prepare Venison for Pasty. — Take the bones out, then season 
and beat the meat, lay it into a stone jar in large pieces, pour upon it 
some plain drawn-beef gravy, but not a strong one ; lay the bones on 
the top, then set the jar in a water-bath, that is, a saucepan of water 
over the fire, simmer tliree or four hours, then leave it in a cold place 
till next day. Remove the cake of fat, lay the meat in handsome 
pieces on the dish ; if not sufficiently seasoned, add more pepper, salt, 
or pimento, as necessary. Put some of the gravy, and keep the re- 
mainder for the time of serving. If the venison he thus prepared, it will 
not require so much time to bake, or such a very thick crust as is usual, 
and by which the under part is seldom done through. 

Ven'son Pasty. — A slionl ler b.med ma'es a good pasty, but it 
must be well Uaten anil seasonci. and the want of fat supplied by 
tliat of a fine well iiimg h-in of mutton, steeped twenty-four houi-s in 
e(|nal parts of ripe vinegar and port. Tlie shoulder behig sinewy, it 
will be of a Ivantaji'e to rub it well with sujiar for two or three days, 
and when to be used, wi;)e it perfeetlv clean from it, and the wine. 

A niistaue used to prevail that venison could not be baked too much 
but as above dii'ceted, three or fuiir hours in a slow oven \\\\\ be quite 
sulficieut to make it tender, and the favor will be i)reservcd Either 



HOME CODK r<)OK 



: and 
damp 
, very 
ing, it 
luke- 



a half 
Yen 

' -t, 
strong 
it it at 
often 5 
nearer 
nake it 

(unless 
I tvvo or 
nridiron 
,uce-pan 
gently ; 
1 Season 



season 
upon it 
lones on 
water 
Id place 
ndsome 
)er, salt, 

the re- 
i. it will 
is usual, 



ID a iiioulder or side, the meat must be cut in pieces, and laid with fat 
between, that it may be proportioned to each f)erson without breaking 
up the pasty to find it. Lay some pepper and salt at the bottom of 
the dish, and some butter ; then the meat nicely packed, that it may 
be sufficiently done, but not lie hollow to harden at the edges. 

The yenison bones should be boiled with some fine old mutton — of 
this gravy put half a pint cold into the dish, then lay butter on the 
venison, and cover as well as line the sides with a thick crust, but do 
not put one under the meat. Keep the remainder of the gravy till 
the pasty comes from the oven ; put it into the middle by a funnel, 
quite hot, and shake the dish to mix well. It should be seasoned with 
pop^r and salt. 

To stew cold Venison. — Cut the meat in small slices, and put the trim- 
mings and bones into a saucepan, with barely enough water to cover 
tliem. Let them stew two hours. Strain the liquor in a stew-pan j 
add to it some bits of butter rolled in flour, and whatever gravy was 
left of the venison. Stir in some currant jelly, and let it boil half an 
hour. Then put in the meat, and k eep it over the fire long enough to 
htat it through, but do not let it boil. 

Minced Venison, or Hash. — Chop up the meat in small pieces, put 
them by and ma > e gravy with the remaining parts, or some veal or 
mutton broth will do. Add some butter rolled in flour, and flavor 
with currant jelly. Put in the venison, and let it simmer till perfectly 
warmed through. 

PORK. 

To roast Pork. — Pork requires a longer time in roasting than any of 
the precediuj meats. When stuffing is to be used, it must be com- 
posed of chopped sage and onion, pej-per and salt. The pieces sh<juld 
be neatly and well scored in regular stripes on the outer skin, to 
enable the carver to cut slices easily. Before putting to the fue, rub 
the s in with sa'ad oil, to jr-event its b istering, and baste very fre- 
qnently. The basting may be done by inibbing it with a piece of 
butter in a muslin bag, when there is not enough of dripping. The 
gravy for pork may be tlie same as for other joints, hot water and salt 
pom-ed over it on the dish. It is considered an improvement to have 
apple-sauce served in a small tureen, as it assi.^ts in overcominj; the 
richness or lusciousness of the meat, and imparts a slight aciclulous 
flavor. 

To boil fresh Pork. — ^Take a flat blade-bone of country pork, take 
out the hone, and put veal stuffing in its place, wrap it in a clefin cloth 
ftud put it ill a saucepan of boiling water with a httle £ait j let it boil 



v^ 



HOME COOK BOOK. 



filowly for about an hour and a half, or an hour and three quarters, ac- 
cording to the size : it should, however, well be done. Serve it up with 
parsley and butter poured over it plentifully. Tliis is a most ri "h, aud 
at the siiinetiine a most delicate dish, equal to boiled fowl and pickled 
pork, whic' i, indeed, it greatly resembles. 

To Bo il Pickled Pork. — Having washed and scraped it, put it into 
boiling water wi'h the skin-side uppermost. If it be thin, a piece of 
four pounds will ue done in less than an hour; a leg of eight pounds 
will take three hours. Pork should be done enough ; but if boiled too 
fast or too long, u will become jelly. Keep the pot well skimmed, and 
send it to table with peas-pudding and greens. Some persons like 
carrots, parsnips also. 

To Boil Bacon and Beans. — These must be boiled separately, other- 
wise the bacon will spoil the color of the beans. Soak the bacon for an 
hour Oi two in cold Avater, trim and scrape it as clean as possible, and 
j)Ut it into enough cold water to cover it : sot it over slow fire, so that 
it will be half an hour before it comes to a boil ; then skim it and let 
it boil gently till done. Two or three pounds will require an hour and a 
liiilf after it boils ; the hock or gammon, being thick, will require moro 
time. When done enough, strip otf the rind ; and your beans in the 
meanthne having been boiled and strained, put them into a daep dish, 
lay the bacon upon them, and send them to table, with parsley aiid 
butter in a boat. 

To boil a Ham. — If the ham has been long cured, soak it in cold wa- 
ter for from tv.'elve to twenty hours. Scrape it and put it into a large 
vessel to boil, with plenty of ''old water, aud let it simmer gently 
from three to four or five hout», according to the size. A ham of 
twenty pounds will require four houi-s and a half. Skim the pot fre- 
quently to remove the grease as it rises. When done, strip oflf the rind, 
and strew bread-raspings over the top side, then set it before the fire, 
or in the oven, to dry and brown. Some persons prefer to bake a ham ; 
it is then necessary, after soaking and scraping, to enclose it in a paste 
o^ flour and water before sending it to the oven. 

To broil Ham. — Cut the ham about the third of an inch thick, and 
broil it very quickly over a brisk fire ; lay it on a hot dish, pepper it 
and put on it a good lump of butter. 

Roast Pig. — Soak in milk some light bread, boil some sage and onions 
jn plenty of water, strain it oft' and chop it very fine, press the milk 
from the bread, and then mix the sage and onion with pepper and salt, 
in the bread put the yolk of an e<:g to bind it a little, put this in the in- 
side of the pig, rub the pig over with milk and butter, paper it, roast it 
a beautiful brown, cut oil" the head before it is drawn from the spit, and 






BOMB COOK BOOK. 



09 



iers, ao* 
up with 
i-h, and 
pickled 



t it into 
piece of 
, pounds 
>iled too 
lied, and 
ous like 



7, other- 
)n for an 
ible, and 
}, 80 that 
t and let 
)ur and a 
lire nioro 
ns in the 
aep dish, 
i-sley aiid 



cold wa- 
a lat^ 
gently 
lam of 
)ot fre- 
the rind, 
the fire, 
a ham; 
a paste 



lick, and 
pper it 

d oniona 
;he milk 
and salt, 
1 the in- 
roast it 
:pit, and 



^i 



likewise cut it down the back and then you will not break the skin; 
take out the spit, cut off the ears from the head, and crack tlie bone 
and take out the brains, put them in a stewpan with all the inside stuf- 
fing and a little brown sauce ; dish the pig, the back outside, and put 
the sauce in the middle, and some in a 'boat, the ears at each end. 

Piy» Read Baked. — Let it be divided and thoroughly cleaned ; take 
cut the brains, trim the snout and ears, bake it an hour and a half, 
wash the brains thoroughly, blanch them, beat them up with an egg, 
pepper and salt, and some finely cut or powdered sage, and a small 
piece of butter, fry them or brown them before the fire ; servo with 
the head. 

Pig^s Head Boiled. — This is a more profitable dish though not so 
pleasant to the palate: it should first be salted, which is usually done 
by the pork butcher; it should be boiled an hour and a quarter; it must 
boil gently or the meat will be hard ; serve with vegetables. 

To fry Pork Ch&ps. — Pork chops should be cut rather thin, and be 
thoroughly dressed. They may be either simply fried in the same 
manner as chops, or fried after being dipped in egg, and sprinkled with 
crumbs of bread, and sage and onion finely chopped. No gravy is 
expected with pork chops. If any sauce be used, it must be apple 
sauce. 

Cheshire Pork Pie. — Take the skin of a loin of pork, and cut the loin 
into steaks, season with salt, pepper, and dried sage. Make a good 
crust, line the dish with it, and put in a layer of pork, then a layer of 
sliced pippins dipped in sugar, then another layer of pork, cover in the 
pie and bake in a moderate oven. 

To fry Pork Sausages. — All sausages are fried alike, and require to 
be dressed very slowly. Before being put into the pan, they should 
be pricked in several places with a fine fork, to prevent their bursting 
by the expansion of the air within. 

It is common in England to bring fried sausages to table neatly laid 
out on a fiat dish of mashed potatoes. The sausages and potatoes are 
helped together. They may also be laid in links on toasted bread, and 
garnished with poached eggs around the dish. 

Fried siusages are sometimes used for garnishing roast turkey. 

To Pickle Pork — The quantities proportioned to the middlings of a 
pretty krge hog, the hams and shoulders being cut oil'. 

Mix, and pound fine, four ounces of saltpetre, a pound of coarse eu 
gar, an ounce of sal-prunel, and a little common salt ; sprinkle the 
pork with salt, and drain it twenty-four hours : then rub with the 
above ; pack the pieces tight in a small deep tub, filling up the spaces 
with common salt. Place large pebbles on the poik, to prevent it fruin 
Bwimmmg in the pickle which the salt will produce. If kept from air 
it will continue very fine for two years. 



wmmmmmmmmmiimmmm 



70 



HOME COOK BOOK. 



Sausages. — Chop fat and lean of pork together ; season il with sa^ 
pepper, and salt, and you may add two or three berries of allspice : half 
hLl hogs' guts that have been soaked and made extremely clean : or the 
meat may be kept in a very small pan, closely covered ; and so rolled 
and dusted with a very little flour before it is fried. Serve on stewed 
red cabbage, or mashed potatoes put in a form, brown and garnish with 
the above ; they must be pricked with a fork before they are dressed 
or they will burst. 

Head Cheese. — Take some tongues, feet, and head of tender pork — 
and any fragments of meat on hand, clean, and scrape as for souse, 
boiling till the meat falls off, chop it small flavor to taste, mixing it in 
well, put in a forcer or cheese hoop, and press, with plate on top and a 
weight over ; in two or three days it will be ready for use. 

Soused Pig 8 Feet. — ^Take the ears, feet, and upper part of the head, 
■crape clean, boil until the meat is tender, take it up ; so flavor properly 
— and put into pure vinegar, spice as you like. Put it in ajar and 
Ijeep closely covered. Tripe can be pickled in the same way. 

Jelly of Pig^s Feet and Ears. — Clean and prepare as in the last 
article, then boil them in a very small quantity of water till every bone 
can be taken out ; throw in half a handful of chopped sage, the same 
of parsley, and a seasoning of pepper, salt, ai^ mace, in fine powder •, 
simmer till the herbs are scalded, then poui the whole into a melon 
form. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR CURING MEATS, kO. 



To make a Pickle that will Keep for years, for Hams, TongueSj or 
Beef, if boiled and skimmed between each parcel of them. 

lo two gallons of spring-water put two pounds of coarse sugar, two 
pounds of bay and two pounds and a hah' of common salt, and half a 
pound of saltpere, in a deep earthen glazed pan that will hold four 
gallons, and with a cover that will fit close. Keep the beef or hams 
as long as they will bear, before you put them into the pickle ; and 
sprinkle them with coarse sugar in a pan, from which they must drain. 
Rub the hams. &c. well with the pickle, and pack them in close ; put- 
ting as much as the pan will hold, so that the pickle may cover them. 
The pickle is it not to be boiled at first. A small ham may lie fourteeii 
days, a large one three weeks ; a tongue twelve days, and beef in pro 
portion to its sizr They will eat well out of the pickle without drf 



HOME OOOE BOOS. 



n 



or 

two 
ilfa 
four 

hams 
and 

Iraiiu 
put- 
lem. 
teeb 
pro 

I dry 



Ing. When they arc to be dried, let each piece be drained over thtt 
pan ; and when it will drop no longer, take a clean sponge and dry it 
thoroughly. Six or eight hours will smoke them, and there should h» 
only a little sawdust and wet straw burnt to do this ; but if put into 
a chimney, sew them in coarse cloth and let them hang a week. 

To cure Hams. — Hang them a day or two ; then sprinkle them with 
a little salt, and drain them another day ; pound an ounce and a hai.. 
of saltpetre, the same quantity of bay-salt, half an ounce of sal-prunel, 
and a pound of the coarsest sugar. Mix these well ; and rub them into 
each ham every day for four days, and turn it. If a small one turn it 
every day for throe weeks j if a lai^ one, a week longer ; but do not 
rub after four days. Before you dry it, drain and cover with bran. 
Smoke it ten days. 

Another way. — Choose the leg of a hog that is fat and well-fed ; 
hang it as above ; if large, put to it a pound of bay salt, four uimces of 
saltpetre, a pound of the coarsest sugar, and a handful of common salt, 
all in fine powder, and rub it thoroughly. Lay the rind downwards, 
and cover the fleshy parts with the salts. Baste it as often as you can 
with the pickle, the more the better. Keep it four weeks, turning it 
every day. Drain it, and throw bran over it ; then hang it in a chun- 
oey where wood is burned, and turn it sometimes for ten days. 

Another way. — Hang the ham, and sprinl- le it with salt as above: 
^hen rub it every day with the following, in fine powder : half a pound 
of common salt, the same quantity of bay-salt, two ounces of saltpetre, 
and two ounces of black pepper, mixed with a pound and a half of trear 
cle. Turn it twice a day in the pickle, for three weeks. Lay it into a 
pail of water for one night, wipe it quite dry, and smoke it two or three 
weeks. 

Another way that gives it a high flavor. — When the v/eather will 
permit, hang the ham three days ; mix an ounce of saltpetre, with a 
quarter of a pound of bay-salt, the same quaiftity of conimon salt, and 
also of coarse sugar, and a quart of strong beer ; boil them together, 
and pour them immediately upon the ham ; turn it twice a day in the 
pickle for three weeks. An ounce of black pepper, and the same quan- 
tity of allspice, in fine powder, added to the above, will give still more 
flavor. Cover it with bran w hen wiped, and smoke it from three to 
four weeks, as you approve : t>.e latter will make it harder and give it 
more of the flavor of Westphalia. Coarse wrap, if to be smoked where 
there is a strong fire. 

A method of giving a still higfier flavor. — Sprinkle the ham with 
ealt, after it has hung two or three days ; let it drain ; make jl pickle 
of a quart of strong beer half, a pound of treacle, an ounce oi coriander 
seeds, two ounces of juniper-berries, an ounce of pepper, the samo 
quantity of allspice, an ounce of saltpetre, half an ounce of sal-prunel, 
ft handful of common salt, and a head of shallot, all pounded or cut 
fine. Boil these all together a few minutes, and pour them over the 



72 



HOME COOK BOOK. 



hftm : this quantity ib for one of ten pounds. Rub ana turn it every 
day, for a fortnight ; then sew it up in a thin linen bag', and smoke it 
three weeks. Take care to drain it from the pickle, and rub it in brao. 
before drying. 

To cure Mutton Ham. — Cut a hind-quarter of good mutton into tb* 
shape of a ham, pound 1 oz. of saltpetre, with 1 lb. of coarse salt, and 
4 oz. of brown sugar, rub the ham well with this mixture, taking care 
to stuff the whole of the shank well with salt and sugar, and let it lie 
a fortnight, rubbing it well with the pickle every 2 or 3 days ; then 
take it out and press it with a weight for 1 day ; smoke it with saw- 
dust for 10 or 15 days, or hang it to dry in the kitchen. If the ham 
Is to be boiled soon after it has been smoked, soak it 1 hour, and if it 
has been smoked any length of time, it will require to be soaked sev- 
eral hours. Put it on in cold water, and boil it gently 2 hours. 

Hog^a Lard. — Melt it with great care in a jar, put into a kettle of 
^ater, set on the fire to boil, adding to the lard a sprig of rosemary' 
v^hile melting ; then run it into small clean bladders. 

Suet and brd keep, better in tin than in earthen vessels ; suet may 
^ kept for a year, if chopped, packed in tin, and covered with treacle. 



POULTEY. 

To Roast a Turkey. — Having picked, drawn, and singed the turkey, 
uniBS it according to previous directions for trussing fow s. Stuff the 
breast with rich veal stuffing, adding a little sausage-meat ; sew up the 
neclc. Cover the breast with buttered paper to preserve it from 
•corching, and roast it to a fine brown. Baste it well with butter ; 
and a little while before It is done remove the paper and allow the 
breast to brown. A good-sized turkey will require roasting from an 
horn and a half to two hours. You must have plenty of good gravy in 
the dish, and garnish with lemon. Serve with bread -sauce. 

To Boil a Turkey. — A boiled turkey is a most delicate and excellent 
dish, and requires to be dressed with extreme care. Clean the turkey 
from feathers and stumps, and singe off the hairs, taking care not to 
blacken the skin. Draw and wipe it inside with a clean dry cloth; 
cut off the legs at the first joint ; draw out the sinews j then pull down 
the skin and push the legs inside ; cut the head off c ose to the body, 
leaving the skin long, and draw out the craw. Make a good veal-stuff- 
ing and put it into the breast, leaving sufficient room for the stuffing 
to swell ; then draw the skin of the breast over the opening and sew it 
neatly across the back, so that when the turkey is brought to tabic no 
sewing will appear. Place the gizzard in one wing and the liver in 
the other ; turn the wing on the back and fix them to the sides with 






"IWfl 



UOME COOX BOOK, 



n 



* skewer ; wrap it m a cloth dR'dgcd with flour, ami put ii into a pot 
of warm water, in sufficient quantity to keep the turkey always cov- 
ered. SKim it whiic boiling A small, young turkey will not take 
more than an hour and a half to boii it ; a large one about two hourg 
h:i(1 a ha X When done place it in a hut dish, and pour a little sauce 
over the breast. Send up oyster-sauco, or parsley anil butter, in a 
tureen. Some cooks make the stuffing of chopped bread and butter 
oysters, cream, and the yolks of eggs. 

Ptdled Turkey. — Divide the meat of the breast by pulling instead 
of cutting ; th*n warm it in a spoonful or two of whit«3 graTj*, and a 
lif,tle cream, grated nutmeg, ualt, and a little flour and butter j do not 
boil it. The leg should be seasoned, scored, and broiled, and put into 
the dish with the above round it. Cold chicken does as well. 

Turkey Patties. — Mince some of the white part, and with grated 
lemon, nutmeg, salt, a very little white pepper, cream, and a very little 
bit of butter warmed, fill the patties. 

To Roast Goose. — Pick, draw, and singe the goose well. Cut off ita 
head and neck. Take off' the feet and legs at the first joint ; also, take 
off the wings at the first joint. The portions of the legs and wings 
that are left are skewered to the sides. Stuff with chopped sage and 
onion, and crumbs of bread, with pepper and salt. The skin of the 
neck must be tied securely, to prevent the gravy from running out. 
Paper the breast for a jhort time. A goose does not require so muc' 
basting as fowl or turkey, for it is naturally greasy. It will require 
from two hours to two hours and a half in roasting. It ought to be 
thoroughly done. Serve with gravy sauce and apple sauce. The liver, 
gizzard, head, neck, feet, and the pinions of the goose, form what is 
termed the giblets, and compose a good stew or pie. 

Green-Goose Pie. — Bone two young green geese, of a good size ; but 
first take away every plug, and singe them nicely. Wash them clean j 
and season them high w.Uh salt, pepper, mace, and allspice. Put one 
inside the other ; and press them as close as you can, drawing the legs 
inwards. Put a gooa deal of butter over them, and bake them either 
with or without crust ; if the latter, a cover to the dish must fit close 
to keep in the steam. It will keep bng. 

« 

To Stew a Goose. — Truss the goose as for boiling, cover it with ba- 
con, and tie it up ; cover the sauce-pan with bacon ; put in a sprinkle 
of sweet herbs : a carrot cut in dice and two bay leaves ; lay in the 
goose and giblets ; cover with bacon ; moisten with as much stock as 
will cover the goose ; let it boil, cover with buttered paper and a close 
cover, and set it on a hot hearth, with fire over it ; give ii an hour and 
a half. Serve it^with onion or apple sauce. 



74 



BOME COOK BUOE. 



To Roast Duels. — Pick, draw, and singe them. Cut off the henrf, 
dip f,he feet in boiling water to remove the yellow skin ; tnia3 them 
plump, turning the feet flat upon the back. Stuff the same as gooHe, 
and sen'e with gravy and apple sauce. An hour will roast a duck* 
Cireen peas, usually accompany roast duck. 

Stewed Duck with Green Peas. — Put a deep stew-pan on the fire 
with u piece of fresh butter ; singe the duck ; Hour it, and put it in the 
stewpan to brewn, tnraing it two or three times ; pour out the fat, but 
let the duck leuiain in the pan ; put to it a pint of good gravy, a pint 
of peas, two lettuces cut small, a bundle of sweet herbs, and a little 
pcp])er and salt ; cover close, and let them stew half an hour. Give 
the pan a shake now and then. When they aie just done, gi*ate in a 
little nutmeg and a little beaten mace, and thicken it with a piece of 
butter rolled in flour; shake it uU together for a few minutes ; then 
take out the sweet herbs, lay the duck in a dish, and pour the sauce 
over it. Garnish with m-nt, chopped fine. 

Potted Sea-Ducka. — Parboil the gizzards, livers, and hearts ; chop 
them fine ; mix with bread-crumbs and butter, seasoned with pepper 
and salt, and if you like, a little inced onion and sage. Fill the bod- 
ies and crops with the stuflng, and sew them up. Then have ready a 
pot with some boiling water in it, and a couple of sticks laid across, in 
the form of an X, so as not to touch the water. Lay the ducks on 
these ; place them over the fire, and let them remain till quite tender, 
keeping the pot closely covered, so as to prevent the escape of the savor 
with the steam. 

Next lay slices of parboiled pork on the bottom of a clean pot ; lay 
the ducks in ; cook, and tui*n, till of a fine brown. Make gravy as foi 
other poultry, and serve with currrant jelly. 

Roast Chickens. — Observe the previous directions as fo?- roasting tur- 
key ; and if you wish to do several at once, put the spit through tho 
bodies the other way. To roast chickens takes about an hoar. If they 
are small they will do in three quarters of an hour. 

Boast Chicken — another way. — Draw, singe, and truss the chickenj 

and put it between some slices of bacon ; take care to tie up the legs on 

the spit, so that they be kept firm ; baste it with its own gravy ; when 

done to a point, (i. e. half an hour,) serve with cresses rotmd it, sea- 

oned with /inegar and salt. 

Oiickep Friiassee. — Half boil a chicken in a little water, let it cool, 
then cut it '^i), and simmer in a gravy made of some of the water in 
which it was boiled, and the neck, head, feet, liver, and gizzard stewed 
well together. Add an onion, a faggot of herbs, iie])pei and salt, and 
thicken with bntter rolled in fiour added to the stiained liquor vith 






„.*ii«*S- 



nOME COOK BOOK. 



75 



I) 

In 



a little nutmeg, then give it a boil, and add a pint of rrcam, h\t over 
the lire, but do not let it boil. Put the hot chicken into a dish, pour 
tiie Bauce over it, add some fried forcemeat balls, and ganiisb with sli 
ces of lemon. 

Boiled Fowls. — Flour a white cloth, and put the fowls in cold water 
l()t them bimmer three quarters of an hour, serve with parsley and but- 
ter, or oyster or celery saiice. The fowls may be covered with a white 
sauce if sent cold to table. 

Boiled Fowls with OysU-^s. — Take a young fowl, fill the inside with 
oysters, ]»ut it into ajar awd plunge the jur in a kettle or saucepan of 
water. Boil it for one hour and a half. There will be a quantity of 
grnvy from the juices of tfe fowl and oysters in tiie jar; laake it into 
a white sauce, with the ad<lition of egg, cream, or a little flour and but- 
ter ; add o\ sters to it, or w^rve it up plain with the fowl. The gravy 
that comes from a fowl dressed in this manner will be a stiff jelly the 
next ilay ; the f()wl will 1 e 'very white and tender, and of an exceeding- 
ly fine tlavor. 

Ciucken Pie. — Wash and rut the chicken (it should be young and 
tender,) in pieces, and put it 'n s, du-h ; then season it to your taste with 
salt, pepper, a blade or two of mact, and some nutmeg. When your 
paste is ready for the chicken, put it in, and fill it aDout two- tliird? 
with water; add several lumps of good sweet butter, and put on X\\9 
top crust. A i)ie with one chicken will require from one hour to threo 
quarters of an hour to bake. 

Fowl, Cold, to dress. — Take the remains of a cold fowl, remove the 
skin, then the bones, leaving the flesh in as large pieces as possible ; 
dredge with flour, and fry a light brown in butter : toss it up in a good 
gravy well seasoned, thicken with butter rolled in flour, flavor with 
lemon, and serve hot with isippets. 

Chicken Currie. Cut up the chicken raw, slice onions, and fry both 
m butter with great care, of a tine light brown ; or, if you use cliick- 
8ns that have been dressed, fry only the onions. Lay the jomts, cut 
into two or three pieces each, into a stew pan, witli a veal or mutton 
gravy, and a clove or two of garli'ck. Simmer ti' ilic chicken is quite 
tender. Half an hour before you serve it, rub smooth a spoonful or 
two of curi'ie-powder, a spoonful of flour, and an ounce of butter ; and 
add this, with four large spoonfuls of cream, to the stew. Salt to yovur 
taste. When serving, squeeze in a little lemon. 

Fowl Broiled. — Separate the back of the fow^ and lay the two side* 
open, skewer the wings as for roasting, seaiBOP well v/ith p«pper and 
salt, and broil ; send to table with the inside of tne fovt 1 to the suriaca 
of tlie dish ; it is an admirable brealiiae) dish when a jouraey is to tie 
peiformcd. 



70 



IIOMK COOK DOOK. 



CJUrhn Frici9t» leith Green Com.— Cut tho corn from the cob 
cover with wak-r and §tcw until nearly done — cut up your chicken, 
put it in with tho coni, and let them simmer fur half an hour. Put in 
a little pepper t;nd a tea cup of cream or milk, thicken with iluur, stir 
In aome butter- -put youi bait in ast. 

To Roast Partrulgea. —^Vkk, draw, singe, and clean them the sam 
as fowls. Make a slit in tlie nock and draw out the craw ; twist thfi 
neck round tho wing and bring the head round to tho side of the breast. 
Ttio legs and wings ai'e trussed the same as fowls, only the feet aro 
leit on and crossed over oue another. Put them down to a clear iii-e 
and haste well with butter. W hen about half done, dust a little flour 
over them ; let them be nicely browned. They will require to roast 
from twenty minutes to half an hour each. Serve on toasted bread 
di[>ped in the gravy, with gravy and bread-sauce. 

To Roast Pigeons.— VXcV^ draw, and trass them, keeping on the feet 
^hop the liver with some parsley, add crumbs of bread, j^opper, salt, 
and a httle butter; put this stuffing inside. SUt i}ne of the legs, ana 
slip the uther through ii ; skewer and roast them lialf an hour ; baste 
them well with butter. SciTe with brovvu gravy in a boat and bread- 
sauce, 

Pigeons in Jelly. — Make some jelly of calfs foot, or if you have the 
liquor in which a knuckle of veal has been boiled, it will answer the 
same purpose ; place it in a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs, a 
blade of mace, white pep[H>r, a slice of lean bacon, some lemon peel, 
and the pigeons, which, being trussed and their necks propped up to 
make them appear natural, season to your palate. Bake them ; when 
they are done remove them from the liquor, but keep them covered 
close, that their color may bo preserved. Remove the fat, boil the 
whites of a couple of eggs with the jelly to clear it, and strain it ; this 
is usually done by dipping a cloth into boiling water, and straining it 
through it, as it pievents anything like scum or dirt sweeping through 
the strainer. Put the jelly rough over and round the pigeons. 

To roast Snipes or Woodcocks. — These are not drawn. Spit them 
on a small bird-spit, flour and baste them with a pieco of butter, lay a 
slice of bread toasted brown in the dish, and set it under the snipes 
for the trail to drop on. When they are done enough, take them up 
and lay them on a toast, tlave ready, for two snipes, a quarter of a 
pint of good gravy and butter ; pour it into a dish, and set it over a 
chofing-dich for a few minutes. Oaruish with lemon. 

To roast a Rabbit. — Having drawn and skinned it, wash it in waim 
water, dry it, tniss it, and stuff it as follows — Beef-suet chopped fine; 
a few bread-crumbs; a little thyme, marjoram, and savory; a little 
grated leraon-pecl, [Hipper and salt, mixed together with an egg ; put 
it into tho belly of tho rabbit and sew it up. Suspend it before t 
good hvG, and do not put it too close at first baste it well with but 



UOMR COOK BOOK. 



77 



l»r or veal diippinp, and dredpe it two or tlirce time* with flou/. 
When it i» sufHcit'ntly roasted place the rabbit in a hot dish: put a 
little water in a saucepan, a lump of butter rolled in flour, and pour 
the gravy in from the dripping-pan j give it a boil up and \iOdv it over 
♦he rabbitt 

To stew Rabbits.— VTash the rabbits well ; cut them in }>i'>res, ur<J 
put them in to Bcald for a lew minutes. Melt a piece of UitU'r ii 
which fry or brown the rabbits for a short time. When s'iidiU; 
browned, dust in some flour ; then add as much gravy or hot wat«.'V a» 
will make suiHcient soup. Put in onions, ketchup, pepper and bail, lui 
cording to taste. Stew for an hour slowly. 



GRAVIES. 

General Directions Respecting Gravies. — Gravy may be madi 
quite as good of the skirts of beef, and the kidney, as of any othc 
meat, prepared in the same way. 

An ox kidney, or milt, makes good gravy, cut all to pieces, and pro 
pared as other meat ; and so will the shank end of mutton that ha» 
been dressed, if much be not w^anted. 

The shank-bones of mutton are a great improvement to the rlchncst 
of gravy j but first, soak them well, and scour them clean. 

To dress Gravy that will keep a Week. — Cut clean beef thin, pu( 
it into a frying-pan without any butter, and set it on a fire covered 
but take care it does not burn ; let it stay till all the gravy that comej 
out of the meat is dried up into it again ; put as much water as will 
cover the meat, and let that stew away. Then puc to the meat a 
small quantity of water, herbs, onions, spice, and a bit of lean ham ; 
simmer till it is rich, and keep it in a cool place. Do not take off tk6 
fat till going to be used. 

Clear Gravy. — Slice beef thin ; broil a part of it over a very cleai 
fire^ just enough to give color to the gravy, but not to dress it ; put 
that and the raw into a very nicely tinned stew-pan. with two onions, 
b clove or two, whole black peppers, berries of allF.pice, and a bunch of 
Bweet htrbs ; cover it with hot water, give it one boil, and skim it well 
two or three times ; then cover it, and simmer till quite strong. 

Citllis, or brow7i Gravy. — Lay over the bottom of a stew-pan m 
much lean veal as will cover it an inch thick ; then cover the veaj 
rrith slices of undressed gammon, two or three onions, two or three 
bay leaves, some sweet herbs, two blades of mace, and three cloven 



...'A^ ^j;«.k%; .C'Atta'A, 



IS 



HOME COOK BOOK, 



I- 



Cov«r the 8te«r-pan, and set it over a slow fire ; but when t'le juices 
come out, let the fire be a little quicker. When the meat is of a fine 
brown, fill the pan with good beet-broth, boil arid SKim it, then simmer 
an hour ; and add a little water, mixed with as much flour as will 
make it properly thick : boil it half an hour, and strain it. This will 
keep a week. 

Veal Gravy, — Make it as directed for cull is ; but leave out the spice 
herbs and flour. It should be drawn very slowly j and if for white 
disheSj do not let the meat brown. 

Gravy for Fowls without Meat. — Clean the feet and gizzard, and 
cut them nnd the neck into small pieces j put them into a saucepan, 
with two small onions, a few sprigs of sweet herbs, a tea-spoonful o» 
whole pepper, and some salt, and the liver, to which add a pint of wa- 
ter ; simmer an hour ; then mix the liver into paste with a little flour 
and butter ; ttnan the gravy to it, stir well and boil up. 

Strong Fish Gravy. — Skin two or three eels, or some flounders ; gut 
and wash them very clean ; cut them into small pieces, and put them 
into a saucepan. Cover them with water, and add a little crust of 
bread toasted brown, two blades of mace, some whole pepper, sweet 
herbs, a picc*^ of lemon-peel, an anchovy or two, and a tea-spoonful of 
horse-radish. Cover close, and simmer ; add a bit of butter and 
flour, and boil with the above. 



SAUCES. 

Sauce.— Tew things require more care than making sauces. As int^st 
of them should be stin-ed constantly, the whole attention should bo 
dincted to them ; the better way is to prepare the sauces before 
cooking those articles which demand equal care ; they ma^ be kejjt 
hit in the bain-marie ; butter and those sauces containing eggs ought 
ncv«)r to boil. The thickest stew-pan should be used for making sauces 
and woodeu spoons used for stirring them. 

Melted Butter. — This must be made of fresh butter. Cut down the 
butter into small pieces, and put them into a small saucepan with coM 
water, in the proportion of an ounce of butter to a tablespoonCul of 
water. Throw in flour for a dicdgor with the one hand, v/hile with 
the other you twrn the siiuccpan rapidly round, so as to cause the flour 
to mix without hmip'mg. A small quantity of flour is suflicient. You 
n.w for the first time take ti;e sauce[ian to the lire, and continue turn- 
uig or shaking it till tiie butter ia thoroughly mtltccL W' hen it boiJa 



HOME COOK BOOK. 



Ta 



LS most 

tuld bo 

before 

)e kept 

[s onglit 

sauces 



)Wii tbe 
lith cold 
Inful of 
lile with 
Ihe tto\ir 
k. You 
l;e turn- 
it boiii 



It is ready ; it should then have the consistency of rich cream. If it 
Bhould oil in making, it may be partly recovered by putting a little 
cold water into it, and pouring it several times into and out of a basin 
This sauce is the foundation of a number of other sauces, various ad* 
ditions being made to it for the sake of variety. 

Oyster Sauce. — Save the hquor in opening the oyster, and boil it 
frith the beards, a bit of mace, and lemon-pee'. In the meantime 
throw the oysters into cold water, and drain it ottl Strain the iquor 
tnd put it into a saucepan with them, and as much butter, mixed with 
ft little milk, as wilt make sauce enough; but first rub a little ^our 
with it. Set them ovor the fire, and stir all the time ; and when the 
butter has boiled once or twice, take them oft', and keep the sauce |)an 
near the fire, but not on it ; for if done too much, the oysters will be 
haid. Squeeze a little lemon-juice and serve. 

Lobster Sauce. — Pound the spawn, and two anchovies ; pour on 
them two spoonfu's of gravy ; strain all into some butter melted, as 
wiL be hereafter directed; then i ut in the meat of the lobster, give 
It one boil, and add a squeeze of lemon. 

Another way. — Leave out the anchovies and gravy, and do it a^ 
above, either with or without a little salt and ketchup as you like 
Many prefer the flavor of the lobster and salt only. 

Sauce for Fowls of any sort.— Boil some veal-gravy, pepper, salt, the 
juice of a Seville orange and a lemon, and a quarter as much of pon 
wine as of gravy : pour it into the dish, or a boat. 

Onion Sauce. — Peel the onions, and boil them tender : squeeze thf 
water from them, then chop them and add to them butter that ha? 
been melted rich and smooth, as will be hereafter directed, but with a 
little good milk instead of water ; boil it up once, and serve it with 
boiled rabbits, partridges, scrag or knuckle of veal, or roast mutton. A 
turnip boiled with the onions makes them milder. 

Mint Sauce. — Soak a bunch of young mint until all the gravel is re- 
moved from ^t, strip the stalks and chop up the leaves, then mix them 
with vinegar, water, and powdered white sugar. The sugar should be 
well melted before the sauce is ser\^ed. It is generally eaten with roast 
lamb, and imparts to it a delicious flavor. 

Bread Sauce. — Cnt in slices the crumb of a French roll, to which 
add a lew jiei^perc* rns, ond whole onion, a little salt, and boiling milk 
enough to cover it let it simmer gently by the side of the fire lill ll o 
bread soaks up the milk, add a littl'^ thick cream, take out the onion. 
and rub the whole through a sieve, make it very hot, and serve with 
game or fowls. , , 

Eg^ Sauce. — Boil three eggs hard, ait them in sraall squares, and 
mix tlioia in good butter sauce, n ake it very hot, and st^ueeze m 8om« 
Icmonjujoe before you serve it« 




lifcM* 



uMM«mUh 



itummmm 



80 



KOME COOK BOOK. 



Chd Sauce, — Take a bunch of parsley, chervil, two eha^ots, two cloves, 
a bay leaf, some mushrooms, a bit of butter, soak all together on tlie 
Arc, adding a small spoonful of flour, and milk or cream suflBcient to 
boil to the consistence of a sauce, and add to it some chopped parsley 
first scalded. 

Eci Sauce. — Cut the eels into large pieces and put them into a stew- 
pan with a few slices of bacon, ham, veal, two onions, with all sorts of 
roots, poak it till it catches, then add a glass of white wine and goud 
broth, a little cullis, three or four tarragon leaves, chervil, a clove of 
garlic, two spices, and a bay leaf j simmer for an hour, skim it vejy well 
and sift it in a sieve for use. 

Celery Sauce. — Three heads of fine white celery cut into two-inch 
lengths, keep them so, or shred them down as straws, boil them a few 
minutes, strain them off, return the celery into the stewpan, put either 
some brown or white stocit and boil it until tender, if too much liquor 
reduce it by boiling, then add either white or brown sauce to it, seasot, 
it with sugar, cayenne, pepper, and salt. 

Superior Sauce for Plum Pudding. — Mix six yolks of eggs with four 
spoonfuls of sifted sugar and butter mixed together ; have a pint of boil- 
ing cream which you will mix with your yolks, afterwards put it on the 
iirc and stir it until it is of the cousistency of sauce, then add to it a 
good wine-glass of brandy. 

Tomato Sauce. — Fresh tomatos, take out stalk, press them all tightly 
down in a stewpan, cover them, put on the fire, strain off the liquor 
that is drawn from them, add to the tomatos a shoe of raw ham, two 
onions, let it stew for an hour, then rub it through a sieve. Have in 
another stewpan a little good brown sauce, put your tomato into it, 
boil all together, season with cayenne, salt, sugar, and lemon juce. 

French method. — Cut ten tomatoes into quarters and put them into a 
eaucepan with four onions sliced, a little parsley, thyme, one clove, and 
a quarter of a poimd of butter ; set the saucepan on the fire, stirring 
occasionally, for three quarters of an hour ; strain the sauce through a 
horse-hair sieve, and serve with the directed articles. 

Jppld Sauce. — Pare, core, and slice some apples, put them with » 
little water into the saucepan to prevent them fr^m burning, add 9 
little lemon peel ; when sufficiently done take out the latter, bruise th« 
apple"- , put in a bit of butter, and sweeten it. 

Peach Sauce.— Tdke one quart of dried peaches, and wash them well 
soak them in enough cold water just to cover, until they are tcijder 
gtew in the same water, until they are entirely dissolved. Sweeten 
with brown sugar, and send to table cold. 

Cranberry Sla/^c^.—This sauce is very simply made. A quiirt o* 
cranberries are washed and stewed with sufficient water t ^ver them 
when they burst mix with them a pound of brown sugar and stir thett 



HOME COOK BOOK. 



81 



lores, 
n the 
mtto 
w-sley 



well. Before you remove them from the fire, all Ihe berrieg nbould 
have burst. When cold they will be jellied, and if thrown into a fonn 
while warm, will turn out wholo. 



Stew- 
arts of 
i good 
Dve of 
•y weil 

vo-incb 
a a few 
b either 

I liquoi 

J seasof. 

rithfour 
t of boil- 
it on tho 
d to it a 

II tightly 
lie liquor 
lam, two 

Have in 
,0 into it, 
juce. 

,tui into a 
;love, and 
J, stirring 
through a 

m with 9 
ing, a(ld 9 
)ruise th« 



Ihem well 



Ire 



tcijdts 
Svvectei 



qu: 
^ver 



lirt o* 
them 



VEGETABLES. 

Observations on dressing Vegetables. 

Vegetables should be carefully cleaned from insects and nicely 
washed. Boil them in plenty of water, and drain them the moment 
they are done enough. If overboiled they will lose their beauty and 
crispness. Bad cooks sometimes dross them with meat; which is 
wrong, except carrots with boiling bi^ef. 

7b boil Vegetables green. — Be sure the water boils when you put 
the vegetables in. Make them boil very fast. Do not cover but watch 
them ; and if the water has not slackened, you may be sure they are 
done when they begin to sink. Then take them out immediate y, or 
the color will change. 

Soft water is best for boiling vegetables; but if only hard can 
be obtained, a very small bit of soda, or carbonate of ammonia, will 
soften it. 

To restore frost-bitten vegetables, lay them in co^d water an hour 
before boiling, and put a piece of saltpetre in the saucepan when set on 
tlie fire. 

Green vegetables, generally, will require from twenty minutes to 
half an hour, fast boiling; but their age, freshness, and the season in 
which they are grown, requires some variation of time. They should, 
almost invariably, be put on in boiling water. 

POTATOES. 

Potatoes require no attention for the preservation of their color, but 
their llavor will be spoiled if their dressing be not attended to, which, 
although of the most simple nature, is fre(iuently ill performed. The 
best mode of doing it is to sort the potatoes, and choose them of an 
equal size ; wash them with a scrubbing-brush, and put them into cold 
water sufficient to cover them and no more. About ten minutes after 
the water has come to a boil, take out the half of it, and replace it with 
cold. This, by attracting the heated vapor from the heart tc the sur- 
face, dries the potatoes, and makes them mealy. When they arc done 



Id st.r 



theuv 



■ems- 



32 



HOME COOK BOOK 



pour off the water ; remove the lid ; sprinUe in a little fine salt; give 
the pot a shake, and tura it down to the lire, so as to dry the potaloe?, 
which the sprinkle of salt favors, by assJRting in the esca e of the 
steam. If you serve them mashed, let it be done quickly as possible. 
Remove al specks; wipe out your kettle, put them back, and mash 
with a pest e, adding a piece of butter, or a cup of rich cream, oi 
milk if you have it, with a little salt and pepper. After potatoes get 
old it is best to pare them, always, before boiling. You can, if you 
choose, brown your mashed potato in a stove oven ; but it is very good 
without. 

Potato Balls. — Mash boiled potatoes till they are quite smooth; add 
a little salt, then knead them with flour to the thickness required j 
toast on the griddle, | ricking them with a fork to prevent their blister- 
ing. Eat them warm, with fresh butter ; they will be found equal to 
crumpets, and much more nutritious. 

Potatoes mashed with Onions. — Prepare some boiled onions by pass- 
ing them through a sieve, and mix them with potatoes. Regulate the, 
proportions according to taste. 

Roasted Potatoes. — Clean thoi'oughly ; nick a small piece out of the 
skin, and roast in the oven of the range ; a little butter is sometimes 
rubbed over the skin to make them crisp. 

Boiled Potatoes. — Rather more than parboil the potatoes ; pare olT 
the skin, flour them and lay them on a gridiron over a clear fire ; send 
them to table with cold fresh butter. 

Fried Potatoes. — Remove the peel from an uncooked potato. After 
it has been thoroughly washed, cut the potato into thin slices, and lay 
them in a pan with some fresh butter, fry gently a clear brown, lay 
them one upon the other in a small dish^ and send to table as an 
enUv inets. 

To mesh Potatoes. — Euil the potatoes as above ; peel fliem, and re- 
move ail the eyes and lumps ; beat them up with butter and salt in a 
wooden mortar until they are quite smooth ; force them into a mould 
which I:uB been previously floured, turn into a tureen which the flour 
will enable you to do ; brown them before ihe fiie, turning gently so 
as not to injure the shape, and when a nice color send to taf)le. They 
are sometimes coated with white of egg, but they may be cooked 
without. ' 

Potatoes fried whole. — "When nearly boiled e-^Anrrh, put t' em into a 
Btew-pan with a bit of butter or some good b*^e). ur/p^uug ; aiake them 
about often to prevent burning, till they uiv f ;oivn and c 'isp ; then 
drain them from the fat. It will be an iraprovt' 'vi 1 1"' T; j ; o floured 
and dipped in ♦he y«ilk of an egg, and then rolio'i 'd. Ui iy-SiAted bread 
•jrunjbs. 



; r 



ilJME COOK BOOK. 



; give 

:aloee, 
of tVio 
.ssible. 
1 mash 
lam, oi 
ocs get 
if you 
rygood 



th ; add 
jquii-ed ; 
blister- 
equal to 



by pass- 
ilate tUc. 



at of the 
ometimes 



pare 



off 



re; send 



After 
and lay 
rown, lay 
ble as an 



n, and ro- 
d salt in a 
o a mould 
the flour 
gently so 
.le. They 
be cooked 



^m into a 
hake them 
lisp; then 
Ire floured 
Lted bread 



fiwt Po/afOfov- r>i>' should noithprbe pared nor cut; hut select 
viU'6\> that are neui-^si of a si,'9, iu oouk together. When done, pour otf 
tne wot^r »nd let ttiem steam at other potatoes. They are sometimci 
halt boiied, ihsncut m slices, an < fritd in sweet drip ings, or butter 
The be^t wny to keep vhem is to bury them in dry sand. 

These »u^ \svtji roasted or baked than boiicd. 

To bak<5 V>€^». — Wash them clean and wipe them dry ; then placi 
them in a quick oven. • They will take from a half of an hour to an 
bour, according to their siz. 

To roast them. — Prepare them as for baking, and either cook them 
in the hot ashes of a wood fire, or in a dutch oven. They take from 
half to three-quarters of an hour to be done. 

To boil Cabbages. — Cut off the stalk, and strip off the outer leaves, 
quarter, and wash them in plenty of water, and leave them to soak, 
top downwards, with a little salt in the water, for an hour or two. 
Put them into plenty of boiling water, with a good liandfui of salt and 
I bit of soda, and boil them till the stalk feels tender. Cabbages re- 
quire t oiling from twenty to forty minutes, according to their size. 
Drain them through a colander. Greens may be pressed between two 
plates. 

To stew Cabbages.— Vaxh j\\ in milk ani water, and drain it ; then 
shred it, put it into a stew-pan, with a small piece of butter, a small 
tea-cupful of cream, and seasoning and stew tender. Or, it may be 
stewed in white or brown gravy. 

To pickle Red Cabbage. — Slice it into a colander, and sprinkle < ach 
layer with salt ; let it drain two days, then put it into a jar, and pour 
boiling vinegar enough to cover, and put a few slices of red bect-root« 
Observe to choose the purple red cabbage. Those who hke the favor 
of spice will boil it with the vinegar. Cauliflower cut in br ches, and 
thrown in after being salted, will look of a beatiful red. 

To dress Caulijloicers. — Having picked them into small pieces, which 
is absolutely necessary in order to rt move the sluj^s with which this 
vegetable abounds, wash it thoroughly in several waters and let it lay 
to soak for full an hour before you dics.s it. Put it into a saucepan of 
boiling water, with a lump of salt, and when tender it will be done ; 
let it drain in a colander, and serve it up with melted butter. Some 
|,ersons may prefer to see them brought to table whole, but they must 
then take the chance of being helped, along with the caulillower, to 
some unsightly insect, which would be sutiicient to disguKt the least 
delicate stomach ; besides, if properly boiled, and laid carefully in the 
dish, the pretty appearance of the vegetable is by no means destroyed 
l)y its liaving been divided. 



IT 



84 



UOMIi: COOK BOOK 



To boll Spinach, — Spinach requires more care in cleaning than any 
other vegetable. Each leaf must be picked separately from the stem 
or root, and washed in several waters. Put it in a colander to drain | 
after which put it into a saucepan to boil. If required to have a mild 
flavor, boil in a considerable quantity of water, but when the bitter of 
the spinach is liked, boil in very little water. It is usually dressed 
with hardly any water. Put in a little salt with it, and press it down 
ficquently. Let it boil or stew till it is quite soft. When done, spread 
a towel over a colander, and pour the spinach into the towel. Then 
squeeze the water from it chop it fine, and put into a stew-pan with a 
httle salt and a bit of butter. After stirring and beating for a minute, 
put it into a Hut dish, and make it in squares with a knife, cutting it 
quite tlirough, foi; the sake of letting it be easily helped at table. 

To boil Turnips. — Pare your turnips pretty thick, split them and 
boil them in plenty of water with salt in it for about half an hour, try 
them with a fork ; if tender they are done ; strain and serve them 
with a little melted butter in a boat, or mash them up with a little but- 
ter, pe^iper and salt. They should be boiled by themselves. 

To boil Carrots. — Scrape and war\\ them, then split them in two, if 
very large intc four, and cut them across ; Parsnips are dressed in the 
eanie manner. AVhen cold, they are very nice cut in slices and fried. 

Asparagus. — Cut the heads about four or five inches long ; scrape 
them and throw them into cold water ; tie them in bundles ; put them 
into boiling water with plenty of salt in it ; let them come quickly to 
a boil — they will take from a quarter of an hour to twenty minutes. 
When tender take them up with a slice ; drain them well ; remove 
the string, and lay the asparagus in a dish, heads inwards, on sUces of 
toast previously dipped in the liquor. Serve with melted butter. Sea 
kale is dressed in the same manner. 

Beets. — They must not be scraped or cut, as they would then lose 
their color and sweetness. Salt the water, and boil them for an hour, 
in summer, and in the winter for three hours. It makes a fine pickle 
if cut into slices when cold, and put into vinegar. 

Oniotis. — Select the white kind, peel them, and put them into boil- 
ing milk, with a little salt, and let them boil from half an hour to threo 
quarters. Drain them through a colander and serve them with melt 
jd butter. 

Tomatoes baked. — Poel, and put them into a dish, with salt, pepper, 
and a little butter over them ; t len a layer of bread-crumbs, another 
of tomatoes ; then more bread-crumbs, and so on until the dish bo 
filled ; the top is to be bread-crumbs. Bake three quarters of an hour 
or longer, according to the size of your dish. Some persons add nxxtf 
meg and sugar to the other seasoning. 



HOME COOll BOOK. 



85 



To boil Beans. — After shelling, p.at thom into boiling water with a 
!»andful of salt ; they will be cooked in about half an hour ; wlien the 
ekins feel tender they are done enough ; strain them, and serve them 
with parsley and butter. 

French or Scarlet Beans. — Cut off the twc ends and string them, 
ben split and cut them in two, throw them into a pan of clean water, 
and p«t them into plenty of boilmg water with salt and a little soda. 
When they are soft, whi3li will be in about a quarter of an hour or 
twenty minutes, strain them tlirough a sieve, and serve them with 
melted butter m a boat. 

Green Peas. — A delicious vegetable, a grateful accessory to many 
difhes of a more substantial nature. Green peas should be sent to 
table green, no dish looks less tempting than peas if they wear an au- 
tumnal aspect. Peas should also be young, and as short a time as pos- 
sible should be suffered to elapse between the periods of shelling and 
boiling. If it is a matter of consequence to send them to table inpor- 
fcction, these rules must be strictly observed. They should be as near 
of a size as a discriminating eye can arrange them ; they should then 
be put in a colander, and some cold water sulfered to run through 
them in order to w^ash them ; then having the .vater in which they 
are to be boiled slightly salted, and boiling rapidly, pour in the peas ; 
keep the saucepan uncovered, and keep them boiling swiftly until ten- 
der ; they will take about twenty minutes, barely so long, unless older 
than they should be ; drain completely, ymuv them into the tureen in 
which they are to be served, and in the centre put a slice of butter, 
and when it has melted stir round the peas gently, adding pepper and 
salt; serve as quici^ly and as hot as possible. 

To Dress Mushrooms. — Cut off the lower part of the stem, peel, and 
put them into a saucepan, with just enough water to keep them from 
burning ; put in a little salt, and shake them occasionally. When ten- 
der, flavor them with butter, pepper, and salt : add wine and spice if 
agreeable. Serve on buttered toast. , 

Egg Plant, — Cut the egg plant in slices half an inch thick, and lev 
it lay for several hours in salted water, to remove the bitter taste. 
To fry it put the slices in the frying-pan with, a smu,!! quantity of but 
ter, and turn them when one side is done. Be sure that they are 
thoroughly cooked. Stuffed egg plant is sometimes preferred to fried. 
Peel the plant whole, cut it in two, and let it lay in salted water. Then 
scoop out the inside of the plant, chop it up fine, mixing crumbs ol 
bread, salt and butter with it ; (ry it, return it to the hollow egg plaut 
•—join the cut pieces together, and let them bake awhile in an oven. 

Sweet Corn. — Com is much sweeter to be boiled on the cob. If made 
into sucotash, cut it from the cobs, and boil it with Lima beans, and 



n 



i 



r^r^i 



66 



HOME COOK BOOK. 



% ffew slices of salt pork. It requires boiling from fifteen to thirty min- 
atcSj according to its age. 

Dried Sweet Corn. — Put it in soak over nijiht, in warm U'ater enouch 
to cover, and set it in a warm place. The next day put it to tlie fii-e 
in the sanw water, with more, it' necessary, and keep it near the boil 
ing point for three hours ; but on no account let it boil, as this bar 
dens the corn, and injures the sweetness. iJe careful not to got too 
much water, for it is all to be retained ; and watcii to see that it is 
not in danger of burning, keeping it wet with only just so much as it 
will finally absorb. Serve hot, seasoned with butter, pepper, and salt. 
Corn prepared in this way is almost as good as when fresh. 

To Dry Sweet Corn. — Scald the ears in boilir water, until the milk 
is set, then ta'<e them up into a lai^e tray, and get the com off the cob 
This is most expeditiously done, by passing the blade of an iron spoon 
slightly inclinjd to the cob, down the rows. Spread on large cloths ; 
and dry in the sun. 

Succotash. — About two parts of beans, to one of corn [dried or green] 
makoH the best succotash — prepare the corn same as above, stew the 
beanjs well, a piece of salt pork gives a nice flavor, mix well together, 
and SfcAiOyi, with salt, pepper and butter. 

Squanhes. — Cut up the squashes in pieces of an inch thick, having 
first pared the squash ; if old, extract the seeds and boil the pieces 
until they break, mash them with a spoon, boil them a little longer 
and when they are done, squeeze them throngli a colander. Mix tbem 
with a little salt and a small quantity of butter. 

Salad. — lake one or two lettuces, split them in two. thoroughly 
wash them, and drain the water from them, then cut them into small 
pieces, and tfien mix them with small salad, celer}'^, and beet rout; cut 
in small pieces some young radishes, cut into small j)ieccs sliced cu- 
cumber, and an egg boiled hard cut into pieces and garnighed about 
them. Make a sauce with the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, which rub 
well together in a basin with a wooden spoon, add a little pepper, salt, 
and mustard, when these are mixed to a smooth paste put in a few 
tea-spoonfuls of sweet oil, mixing it well between eacii spocmful ; then 
mix in a few tea-spoonfuls of vinegar in the same manner ; when the 
sauce is mixed according to the directions, it will never requii-e shaking, 
and will always look like cream ; pour this sauce over the salad, or 
serve it in a cruet. 

ColdslaiD. — Shave as fine as possible a hard head of white cabbage, 
put It in a salad bowl, and pour over it the usual salad dressing. 

Another way — is, to cut the cabbage head in two, shave it finely 
put it in a siewpan with half a tea-cupful of butter, a tea-spoonful of 
salt two table-epconfuls of v inr^ar, and a salt-spoonfid of pepper ; covei 



nOME COOK BOOK. 



87 



slie Btewpan, ana set over a gentle Vivo for five minutes, shakme it 
>c<;asionally. Wheu thoroughJy heated, serve it as a salad. 

Cucumbers.— Let tlirm be frc^sh as possible, or they will be imwhole- 
eome. Paie ; cut off the stem end to the seeds, and slice in cold water, 
some time before they are wanted. Serve with salt, pepper, vinegar', 
and if you like, a little salad oil. Onions are sometimes sliced up with 
them— and tomatoes are frequently prepared in the above raanuur 



EGGS, OMELETTES, &C. 



It 18 very difficult to ascertain when eggs are perfectly fresh. There 
are different rules on the subject, but they are all liable to failure. One 
mode of judging, is to hold the e^ between the eye and the light of a 
candle, shadowing the eye with the hand ; if the appearance is univer 
Bally luminous without any cloudiness, the egg is fresh ; if cloudy oi 
rot uniformly luminous, it is probable that the egg is unfit for use. 

To boil Eg^s. — The boiling of eggs is a very simple operation, but is 
frequently ill performed. The following is the best mode : — Put the 
egg into a pan of hot water, just off the boil. When you put in the 
egg, lift the pan from the fire and hold it in your hand for an instant or 
two. This will allow the air to escape from the shell, and so the egg 
will not be cracked in boiling. Set the pan on the fire again, and boii 
for thp' minutes or more, if the egg be quite fresh, or twomii.utes 
and a half, if the egg has been kept any tiine. Eggs to be used hard 
for salads and other dishes, should be put into cold water, and boiled 
for a quarter of an hour after the water comes to the boil. In this 
case, the shells should not be taken off' till the eggs are cold. 

To Poach Eggs. — Take a shallow saucepan or fryingpan^ and till it 
about half full of water. Let the water be perfectly clean, not a par- 
ticle of dust or dirt upon it. Put some salt into the water. Break each 
fgg into a separate tea-cup, and sUp it gently from the cup into the 
water. There is a knack in doing this, without causing the egg to 
spread or become ragged. A good way consists in allowing a little 
water to enter the cup and get laelow the egg, which sets the egg to a 
certain extent, before it is allowed to lie freely in the water. If the 
water be about boiling point, one minute is sufficient to dress the egg j 
lut the eye is the best guide j the yojk must ret^iij jjis Ikniicj stuj«w 



ir 



mMiiiM 



■i II —i>l 



( i U < 



88 



UOME OOOK BOUK. 



lying In the centre of the white. Have buttered touted bread pivpar* 
od on a dish, and cut in pieces rather larger than the egg; then take up 
the eggs carefully with a small slice, pare oif any ragged parts ft cm 
the edges, and lay them on the bread. They may be laid on sUces of 
fried bacon, when preferred. 

Buttered Eggsr^Vnt a piece of butter in a saucepan, and melt it 
adding a little milk, lireak the eggs into a basin, and pour them into 
the saucepan. Season with salt and pepper, and continue stirring the 
eggt till they are sufdciently dressed. Serve on pieces of toastca 
bread. 

Omelettfia. — Omelettes are composed of eggs and any thing that the 
fancy may direct to flavor and enrich them. For a common omelette, 
take six eggs, and beat them well with a fork in a basin ; add a little 
salt. Next take a little finely chopped parsley, finely chopped eschalot 
or onion, and two ounces of butter cut into small pieces, and mix all 
this with the egg. Set a fryingpan on the fire with a piece of butter 
in it ; as soon as the butter is melted, pour in the omelette, and con- 
tinue to stir it till it assume the appearance of a firm cake. When 
dressed on one side, turn it carefully, and dress it on the other. It 
wiU be dressed sufficiently when it is lightly browned. Serve it on a 
dish. 

Omelette Fritters, — Make two or thrce thin omelettes, adding a little 
sweet basil to the usual ingredients, cut them into small pieces, and 
roll them into the shape of ohves, when cold*dip them into batter, or 
enclose them mto puff paste, fry and serve them with fried parsley. 

Onion Omeletx^. — Take two or thrce good sized onions, cut them into 
elices, and fry them in butter, when they are done add the yolks of two 
eggs, and a little chopped parsley, fry two small omelettes, on which lay 
the onions, with two or three anchovies cut in slices, roll them up 
lengthways, fry some pieces of crumb, cut the omelettes to the shape and 
size of these, and place them thereon, pour melted butter, and strew 
bread crumbs, and grated cheese over them, and color it in the oven. 
Omelettes may be judiciously variea by mincing tongue or ham with 
them. 



m I 



HOME COOK B(>OK. 



BUTTER, CHEESE* ETC 



80 



Butter — to Clarify.— Scrnixi olT the outsid* ^ (,r the br.tter yon may 
require and then put it into a 8tcw|mn by the side of a slow tire, where 
it must remain till the scum riftes to the top and the milk settles at the 
bottom ; carefully with a spoon take olf the scum, when clear it is t\ 
for use. 

Butter preserved for Winter. — Take two parts of the best common 
salt, one part of good loaf sugar, and one part saltpetre, beat them well 
together; to sixteen ounces of butter thoroughly cleansed from the 
milk put onr ounce of the above composition, work it well, and put it 
into pots when quite firm and cold. 

Cheese toasted, or a Scotch Babbit. — Toast a slice of bread, butter 
itj toast a slice of cheese on both sides, and servcj ic on the bread. 

Cheese Fritters. — Take some mild bile or gniyere cheese, add some 
milk and butter, and put the whole into a saucepan, put to theso 
ingredients flour, eggs, and sugar, make into a j)aste, of which fonn 
your fritters, fry them of a nice color and serve, then sprinkle with 
sugar, a smal; quantity of orange flowers, may be added. 

^^.lsh Babbit — another way. — Toast a sli.w of bread quick on both 
sides and butter it, toast a slice of cheese on one side, then lay thai 
side upon your bread, then hold a hot salaraai»derj or shovel over the 
other side, spread it with mustard and a little V^cprer, keep it hot» and 
•over it over. 



PICKLES. 

Rules to be observed with Pickles. 

Keep them closely covered ; and have a wooden spoon, with holeti 
tied to each jar ; all metals being improper. They should be well kepi 
from the air ; the large jars be seldom opened ; and sma?! ones, for the 
different pickles in use, should be kept for common supply, into wh' h 
what is not eaten may be returned, and the top closely covered. 

Acids dissolve the lead that is in the tinning of sauce-pans. "When 
necessary to boil vinegar, do it in a stone jar on the hot hearth. Pick- 
les should never be put into glazed jars, as salt and vinegar penetrates 
the glaze, w^hich is poisonous. 

Cucumbers. —Always select for pickling the small young and slender 
cucumbers, and leave about half an inch of the stem. This always 
makes cucumbers k^ep better. Put them into a strong brine is they 



^ 







I. 



IMAGE EVAIUATION 
TEST TARGET (MT-3) 








1.0 



I.I 



■tt l&i 12.2 

u KM 

:^ 1^ 12.0 

11! 



;iiL25 III 1.4 



I 

U4 




Photographic 

Sciences 

Corporation 



23 WIST MAIN STMIT 

WEBSTBR.N.Y. 14SS0 

(716) •72-4503 




^^4^ 

>> 



(i 



% 






6^ 



■w 



;«.. 



^^ 




»■ 


. 




• 



90 



HOME COOK BOOK. 



./■ 



Are gatl? red. When you wish to green Lnd prepare a portion of thtm 
for the Vdble, cover the bottom and sides of your kettle with vine, or 
cabbage leaves ; lay in the pickles ; finish with a thick layer of leaves, 
and pour in cold fresh water enough to cover. Put the kettle oyer a 
moderate fire ; bring it to the scalding heat ; and keep them at that 
point until perfectly green. If in the course of ten or twelve hours 
they do not become so, renew the leives, and repeat the process. When 
well greened, take them out; drain thoroughly ; put them in a stone jar 
lnd pour over enough of the best cider vinegar, boiling hot, to cover 
them. This mode is adapted to any kind of pickle which is first put 
in brine, and then greened, to be put in vinegar. 

To Pickle Tomatoes. — Throw them into cold vinegar as you gathear 
them. When you have enough, take them out, tie some spices in a 
bag, and scald them in good vinegar. Pour the vinegar hot over the 
tomatoes. 

To Pickle Red Cabbage. — Cut the cabbage across in very thin slices, 
lay it on a large dish, sprinkle a good handful of salt over it, and cov- 
er it with another dish ; let it stand twenty-four hours, put it in a col- 
ander to drain, and then lay it in the jar. Take white-wine vinegar 
sufficient to cover it, a httle mace, cloves, and allspice, and put them in 
Whole, with one pennyworth of cochineal bruised fine, and somo whole 
pepper. Boil it all up together, let it stand till cold, then pour it over 
the cabbage, and tie the jar over with leather. 

Onions. — Boil some water with salt, pour it over the onions hot, let 
them stand all night, then peel and put them into cold salt and water. 
Boil double-distilled vinegar with white spice, and when cold, put your 
onions in a jar and pour the vinegar over them ; tie them tight down 
with leather, 
will spoil. 



Mind always to keep pickles tied dawn close, or thev 



Peppers. — These are done in the same manner as cucumbers. If 
you do not Uke them very fiery, first extract the seeds. Peppers should 
never be put in the same jar with cucumbers ; but toinntoes ai*e much 
unproved by being pickled with them. The bell pepper is the best for 
pickling. It should be gathered before it shows any signs of turning 
red. Peppers do not requira any spice. They may be stufied like 
mangoes, - 

Walnuts. — When they will bear a pin to go into them, place in a 
brine of salt and water boiled and strong enough to bear an egg on it, 
being quite cold first. It must be well skimmed while boiUng. Let 
tliem soak six days, then change the brine ; let them stand six more , 
then drain them and put them into a jar ; pour over them a pickle of 
the best white wine-vinegar, with a good quantity of pepper, pimento, 
ringer, mace, cloves, mustard seeds and horseradish, all boiled together 
out cold. To every hundred of walnuts put six spoonfuls of mustan? 
need and two or tmree heads of shalot^ Keep them six months. 



mmmm 



HOME OOOK BOOK. 



91 



'' Tr* Pickle Mushrooms. — Take button mushrooms ; rub and clean them 
trith flannel and ealt ; throw some salt over them, and lay them in a 
Btewpan with mace and pepper. While the liquor comes from them, 
keep shaking them well till the whole is dried into them again ; theii 
pour in as much vinegar as will cover them j warm them on the fii'Q 
and turn them into a jar. 

Mushrooms prepared in this manner are excellent, and will keep foi 
two years. 

To Pickle Nastitrtivms.—V'ick them when younp; on a warm day; 
boil some vinegar with salt and spice, and when cold put in the nastur- 
tiums; or they may be i>ut into old vinegar from which green pickles 
or onions have been taken — only boil it up afresh^ 

To Pickle Beets. — Wash it, but do not cut off any of the rootlets j 
boil or bake it tender, peel it, or rub off the outside with a coarse cloth, 
cut it into slices, put them into a jar, witii cold boiled vinegar, black 
pepper and ginger. 



m a 



KETOnUP. 

Tomato Ketchup. — Boil half a bushel of tomatoes until soft — force 
them throught a fine sieve, and put a quart of vinegar, one pint of salt, 
two ounces of cloves, two ounces of allspice, one and a half ounces of 
cayenne pepper, 1 table-spoonful of pepper, two heads of garlic skin- 
ned J mix together and boil three hours, then bottle with being strained. 

Mushroom Ketchup. — Take a stewpan full of large-flap mushrooms 
that are not worm-eaten, the skins and fringe of those you have pickled, 
throw a handful of salt among them, and set them by a slow fire j they 
will produce a great deal of liquor, which you must strain ; and put to 
it four ounces of shalots, two cloves of garlic, a good deal of pepper, 
ffinger, mace, cloves, and a few bay-leaves — boil and skim very well. 
When cold, cork close. In two months boil it up ^ain with 8 little 
?i-esh spice and a stick of horse-radish, and it will then keep the year, 
which mushroom ketchup rarely does, if not boiled a second time. 

Walnut Ketchup (cheap). — Take walnut-skins and put them in a 
st^ne pan, let it stand covered up in a damp place for two or three wceka 



D2 



HOME COOK liOOSL 



that tlie EkihR may decompose and ferment ; the more decayed tliey 
become the better will be your ketchup. Then squeeze thcra ihrougli 
coarsa cloths, and let the liquor drop :nto a clean pan ; when you havr 
pressed out all the liquor you can, pour a little water on the skinn, an^ 
again squeeze them dry. Then put the liquor into a pot. with a good 
handful of salt, some allspice, and long pepper, and give it a good boilinir 
for three or four hours, keeping it carefully skimmed. When coldj 
bottle it, and kenp it in a dry, cool place. Should it afterwards turn 
mouldy or ferment, you need only boil it up and skim it, which will 
perfectly restore it. If it be properly made, many persons cannot dis- 
tinguish it from the mushroom-ketchup, while the expense is com- 
paratiTcly nothing. 



PIES AND PUDDINGS. 

General Rules. — ^Iii boiling puddings, mind that the cloth be perfectly 
clean. Dip it in hot water and dredge it well with flour. If a bread- 
pudding, tie it loose ; if a batter-pudding, tie it nearly close ; apple and 
gooseberry pudding, &c., should be tied quite close. When you make 
a batter^pudding, first mix the flour well with milk, and stir in the 
other ingredients by degrees j you will then have it smooth without 
lumps. The best way, however, for a plain batter-budding is to strain 
it through a coarse hair-sieve, that it may have neither lumps nor the 
treadings of the eggs ; and for all other puddings strain the eggs when 
they are beaten up. Be sure the water boils when you put your pud- 
ding in, and that it kesps boiling all the time, and that you keep it 
always covered with waier j yo" should also move it about two or thrc? 
times at first or it may stick > *he pot j d'p the pudding into coh) 
water immediately you take it oui, which pi-cvents it sticking; If you 
boil your pudding in a dish or basin, butter the inside before putting 
the pudding in ; the same should be done to the dish for a baked pud- 
ding or pie. 

The quality of pie-crast depends much on the baking. If the oven 
be too hot, the paste, besides being burned, will fall ; if too slack, it 
will be soddened, and consequently heavy. 

Paste should be made on a cold smooth substance such as ma^'ble, 
with a light, cool hand. It should be made quickly ; much handling 
makes it heavy. Great nicety is required in wetting the paste, too 
little moisture rendering it dry and crumbly, while too much makes it 
tough and heavy ; and in either case, the paste cannot be easily work 
ed. Practice alone can prodtice perfection in this art. 

Before commencing to make paste for pies or puddings, it is necr^s* 
sary to place near at hand everything likely to be wanted, to iuKprel 
all the utensils, to prepare all the ingredients, and though laet, n^i kiUAt 



nOMK COOK BOOK. 



tu wuh the hands and nails perfectly cleaa ; foi the hands are the best 
tools to make paste with. 

Always use good sweet butter, dripping, or lard for pie or pudding 
crufit. Some persons entertain the mistaken notion that butter which 
cannot be eaten on bread will do very well for paste, on tlie contrary 
the baking or boiling of rancid fat increases the bad flavor. It is a good 
plan to wash the butter in clean spring water before using it. Make 
two or three holes with a fork in the cover of your pies, that the steam 
may escape. 

To Make Dripping Crust. — Take half a pound of fresh, clean drip- 
ping, and work it well up into a pound and a half of flour ; rub it well 
in, and make it into » paste with water with the chill taken off. If 
worked well, it makes an excellent crust ; some Lowever^ prefer butter, 
a quarter of a pound of which will be enough for a pound and a quar- 
ter of flour. 

Puff paste far Fruit Pies or Tarts. — The paste ibr tarts is made 
much lighter than for meat pies. This is done by mixing a greater 
quantity of butter with the flour. The proportion of ingredients i« 
half a pound of butter to two pounds of flour. Take one-third part of 
the butter which is to be used, and mix it wHh the flour, by rubbing 
together. If the butter is fresh, add a little salt. Put sufficient water 
to the flour to form it into a dough. Knead it quickly, and roll it out. 
Then divide the remainder of the butter into four or five equal portions. 
Spread one of these portions equally over the paste, by means of a knife, 
or sticking it over in small pieces. Dredge lightly with flour, and roll 
up the paste, with the butter inside. Flatten the paste again with thf 
rolling-pin, and proceed in the same manner with the second portion of 
butter ; then proceed with the third in the same manner, and so on, 
till all the butter is incorporated. In baking tarts, the oven should not 
be so hot as for meat pies. 

Raised Crust for Meat-pies or Fowls, ^c. — Boil water with a little 
fine lard, an equal quantity of dripping, or of butter, but not much of 
either. While hot, mix this with as much flour as you will want 
making the paste as stiff as you can to be smooth, which you will 
make it by good kneading and beating it with the rolling-pin. When 
quite smooth, put a lump into a cloth, or under a pan, to soak till near 
cold. 

Those who have not a good hand at raising crust may do thus : Roll 
the paste of a proper thickness, and cut out the top and bottom of the 
pie, then a long piece for the sides. Cement the bottom to the sides 
with egg, bringing the former rather farther out, and pmching both 
together ; put egg between the edges of the paste, to make it adhere at 
the sides. Fill your pie, and put on the cover, and pinch it and the 
pio crust together. The same mode of uniting the pasto is to bo 



04 



HOME COOK BOOK. 



observed if the sides are pressed into a tin form, in which th« paste 
must be baked, after it shall be filled and covered ; but in the latter 
case, the tin should be buttered, and carefully taken off when done 
enough j and as the form usually makes the sides of a lighter colour 
than is proper, the paste should be put into the oven again for a 
quarter of an hour. With a feather, put e^ over at first. 

Rhubarb, GoMeberry, Plum, and Currant Pie. — Make a good a-ust i 
lay a little round the sides of the dish j throw some sugar on tho bot- 
tom, and put in a Utile cup to suck in the juice ; lay in the fruit, and 
put some more sugar at top; then put in a very little water; wvt the 
top of the crust that goes round inside ; put on the cover, and pinch 
the edges together. Cut the rhubarb into lengths of two inches, but 
do not skin it ; only trim it at top and bottom. 

Open Tarts.— Line your dibhes with thin light paste, fill in with 
preserved fruits or jam, and lay strips of paste across in squares or dia- 
monds. A short time will bake them* 

Mince Pies. — :Take equal weights of tender roast beef, suet, currants, 
raisins, and apples which have been previously pared and cored, with 
half their weight of soft sugar, one ounce of powdered cinnamon, an 
equal quantity of candied orange and lemon-peel, and citron, a little 
salt, and twelve sour almonds blanched and grated. Chop the meat 
and the suet separately ; wash and pick the currants, stone the 
raisins and chop them with the peel ; and having minced all the ingre- 
dients very fine, mix them togethnr, adding a nutmeg. 

Apple Pie. — Pare and take out the cores of the apples, cutting each 
apple mto four or eight pieces, according to their size. Lay them 
neatly in a baking-dish seasoning wilh brown sugar, and any spice, 
such as pounded cloves and cinnamon, or grated lemon-peel. A little 
quince marmalade gives a fine flavor to the pie. Add a little water, 
and cover with puflf paste, as above directed. Bake for an hour. 

Rhubarb Pie. — Take the tender stalks of the rhubarb, strip off the 
skin, and cut the stalks into thin slices. Line deep plates with pie 
crust, then put in the rhubarb, with a thick layer of sugar to each 
^yer of rhubai-b — a little grated lemon-peel improves the pie. Cover 
the pies with a crust, press it down tight upon the edge of the plate, 
and prick the crust with a fork, so that the crust will not burst while 
baking, and let out the juices of the pie. Rhubarb pies should be 
baked about an hour, in a slow oven, it will not do to bake them quick. 
Some cooks stew the rhubarb before making it into pies, but it is not 
80 good an wuea used without stewing. 

Pumpkin Pie. — Halve the pumpkin, take out the seeds, rinse the 
pumpkin, and cut it into small strips, stew them over a moderate fire 
in just sufficient water to prevent their burning to the bottom of the 
pot. When stewed soft} turn off the water, aud let the pumpkin 



HOME COOK BO(»K. 



'HF'' 



but 



'the 



steam over a slow fire, for fifteen or twenty minutes, t^^iLg care that 
it does not burn. Take it from the fire, and strain it when cool 
through a sieve. If you wish to have the pies very rich, put to a quart 
of the stewed pumps in two quarts of milk, and twelve eggs, if you 
like them plain, put to a quart of the pumpkin one quart of milk, and 
three eggs. The thicker the pie is of the pumpkin the less will be the 
number of eggs required for them. One egg, with a table-spoonful of 
flour, will answer for a qtiart of the pumpkin, if very little milk is used. 
Sweeten the pumpkin with sugar, and v(:ry little molasses, the sugar 
and eggs should be beaten together. Ginger, grated lemon rind oi 
nutmeg, is good spice for the pies. Pumpkin pies require a very hot 
aven. :. . - ■ 

Peach Pie. — Take mellow juicy peaches ; wash nnd put them in a 
deep pie plate, lined with pie crust. Sprinkle a thick layer of sugar on 
each layer of peaches, put in about a tablespoonful of wnter, and sprin- 
kle a little flour over the top ; cover it with a thick cruRt. and bake 
the pie from fifty to sixty minutes. 

Custard Pie. — Beat six eggs, sweeten a quart of rich milk, that ha* 
been boiled and cooled ; a stick of cinnamon, or a bit of lemon-peel 
should be boiled in it. Sprinkle in a salt-spoonful of salt, add the eggs 
and a grated nutmeg stirring the whole together, line two plates witn 
good paste, set them in the oven five minutes to harden ; then pour in 
tne custard and bake twenty or twenty-five minutes. 

Cocoanut Pie. — Cut off the brown part of the cocoanut, grate the 
white part, and mix it with milk, and set it on the fire and let it boil 
slowly eight or ten minutes. To a pound of the grated cocoanut allow 
a quart of milk, eight eggs, four table-spoonsful of sifted white sugar, 
a glass of wine, a small cracker, pounded fine, two spoonsful of melted 
butter, and half a nutmeg. The eggs and sugar should be beaten to- 
gether to a froth, then the wine stirred in. Put them into the milk 
and cocoanut, which should be first allowed to get quite cool ; add the 
cracker and nutmeg, turn the whole into deep pie-plates, with a lining 
and rim of pufi' paste. Bake them as soon as turned into the plates. 

Plum or Apricot Pie. — Take eighteen fine apricots, cut them in 
halves and take out the stones, place them in a dish lined with puff 
paste, add four ounces of powdered sugar, and four ounces of butter 
lukewarm, then put on the upper crust, glaze with the white of egg, 
and sprinkle sifted sugar all over, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Open Tarts — These are tarts without covers, made in flat diBhes. 
Cover the bottom of the dish with a common pu^te ; then cut a strip 
of puff paste and lay round the edge of the dish. Fill in tlie centre 
with any jam or preserved fruit. Decorate the top of the jam with 
i»arrow bars of paste crossed all over, or stamped leaves. Baka i;>j 
half an hour. 

The above will answer for all kmds of Tart*. 



06 



HOME COOK BOOK. 



tcinff for Tarts. — After tarts ire baked, they are sometimes iced OB 
the top, to improve their appearance. The icing is done in the follow- 
ing manner : — Take the white of an egg, and beat it till it is froth. 
Spread some of this with a brush or feather on the top or cover of the 
tart, and then dredge white sifted sugar upon it. Betum the tart to 
the oven for about ton minutes. 

Plain Bread Pudding. — ^Weigh three quarters of a pound of any odd 
scraps of bi*ead, either crust or crumb, cut them small and pour on 
them a pint and a half of boiling water to soak them well. Let it 
stand until the water is cool, then press it out, and mash the bread 
smooth with the back of a spoon. Add to it a teaspoonful of powder- 
ed ginger, moist sugar to sweeten, three quarters of a pound of picked 
and cleaned currants. Mix well, and lay in a pan well buttered ; flat- 
ten it down with a spoon, lay some pieces of butter on the top, and 
bake in a mo^rate oven. Serve hot. 

Elegant Bread Pudding. — ^Take light white bread, and cut it in thin 
slices. Put into a pudding shape a layer of any sort of preserve, thin 
a slice of bread, and repeat until the mould is almost full. Pour over 
all a pint of warm milk, in which four well-beaten eggs have been 
mixed ; cover the mould with a piece of linen, place in a saucepan witJi 
a little boiling water, let it boil twenty ininiites, and serve with pud- 
ding sauo6. 

Suet Pudding. — To a pound and a quarter of flour, add a pound of 
ihixid suet, with two eggs beaten separately, a little salt, and a little 
ground ginger, and just enough milk to make it ; boil it four hours. It 
is very nice the next day cut in slices and broiled. 

Boiled or baked Custard Pudding. — Boil a pint of new milk ; let it 
4tand until cold, and then mix it with four eggs well beaten, a little 
ossence of lemon, and sufficient loaf sugar to sweeten it. If baked, a 
paste should be laid round the sides of the dish, and it will take twenty 
minutes in a moderate oven, if boiled, it wiU require ten minutes 
jonger. 

Lemon Pudding. — A quarter of a pound of suet, half a pound of 
bread-crumbs, four ounces of sugar, the juice of two lemons, the rind 
9f them grated, and one e^. Boil it well and serve with pudding 
iauce. 

Apple Pudding. — ^Four spoonfuls of apples boiled as for sauce 
squeeze into it the juice of two lemons, and the grated peel, add lump 
sugar, four eggs, a quarter of a pound of butter j put all together in a 
thin crust. Bake it half an hour. 

Plum Pudding. — Stone half a pound of raisins, wash clean and 
pick half a pound of currants, chop half a pound of beef or motton suet 
very fine, have some bread-crumbs made fine through a wire sieve 
cut line a little candied orange, lemon, and citron, grate » little nul 



.!*" 



L.^ 



UOMK OOOK BOOK. 



n 



oeg, a few grains of powderod cinnamon, break dgl t eggs |according 
(o the size pudding required,] beat them up in a large basin, then add 
your spice and a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, then your caiidies, 
currants, and raisins, swee.;en then a cnp of cream or milk, add the 
grating of one lemon, mix in bread-crumbs till it is quite tttiff and well 
mixed, add a glass of brandy and two of sherry, tet it stand for some 
hours ; butter a plain round mould if vou have it, spriukle it all oyer 
with fried bread-crumbs. It will take three hours to Htram. Pour 
sauce over it, any that may be approved. You will find it la another 
place in the bjok. 

A plain Rice Pudding. — ^Well wash and pick eight ounces of rice, 
and put it into a deep dish, with two quarts of milk ; add to this two 
ounces of butter, four ounces of sugar, and a little cinnamon or nut- 
meg, ground ; mix them well together, and bake in a very slow oven. 
It will take about two hours. 

BreadrandrButter Pudding. — Grease a dish well with butter, then 
sprinkle in a good thick layer of currants, well washed and picked ; 
add some brown sugar, and cover with thin slices of light white bread 
until the dish is filled by alternate layers of currants, sugar and bread. 
Boil a pint of new milk, add four well-beaten yolks of eggs, a little nut- 
meg and grated lemon-peel ; pour into the dish containing the bread, 
dbc. and let it stand for an hour, then bake in a moderate oven. 

A paste may be put round the edge of the dish, but it is not neces- 
sary. 

Apricot Pudding. — Split a dozen large apricots, remove the stones, 
and scald till quite soft. Pour a pint of boiling cream upon the grated 
crumbs of a penny loaf; when nearly cold, add four ounces of sifted 
sugar, the yolks of four well-beaten eggs, and a wine-glassful of white 
wine. Pound the fruit in a mortar, with half of their kernels ; mix the 
fruit and the other ingredients together. Line your dish with paste, 

Sut a layer round the edge, pour in the mixture, and bake for hidf an 
lOur. 

, CuTTont Pudding. — An excellent family pudding may be made of 
the following ingredients : — A pound of minced suet, a pound of bread 
crumbs or flour, three quarters of a pound of currants, washed and 
picked, a little powder 'd cinamon and grated nutmeg, and a very lit- 
tle salt Beat two eggs, and add as much milk to them as will wet 
the whole. Mix all together, tie in a cloth as previously directed, and 
boil for three hours. 

Baiter Pudding. — Take a quart of milk, mix with six tablo-spoonfuls 
of flour, six well-beaten eggs, a te^^le-spoonful of powdered ginger, and 
a tea-spoonful of salt ; flour a cloth that has been wet, or butter a nasin 
and put the batter into it, tie tight, and plunge it into boiling water 
the bottom upwards. Boil for an hour and a quarter, and serve with 
plain melted butter, or sweet sauce. If according to taste, half a pound 
of weU-washcd currants may be added. 

5 



r- • — 



fflPWIIIOTI 



9d 



HOm CiX)K BOOK. 



Indian Pudding, ou^ ed. — Scald a quart of milk (skimine J n, ik mtl 
do), and sdr in seven table-spoonful of sifted Indian meal, a tcaspoon- 
fnl of salt, a tea-ctmful of molasHes or treacle, or coarse moist sugar, 
and a table-spoonful of powdered ginger or sifted cinnatuon : bak« 
three or four noun* If wney is wanted, pour in a little cold miU after 
it is all minced. 

Potato Pudding.-^' Boi\ and mash some potatoes; mix xrith them 
some currants, sugar, and cinnamon, three or four eggs well beaten, 
some civam, e' igh to make it a thin mash ; line your dish with puff 
paste, bake it brown in a brisk oven, not too much ; strew white sugar 
over it when sent to table. 

jipple Dumplings. — Pare a few good sized baking applet, and roll 

Out some paste, divide it into as many pieces as you have apples, cut 

*wo rounds from each, and put an apple under each piece, and put the 

*her over, join the edges, tie them in cloths, and boil them oiie hour. 

Apple Dumplings^ Baked, — Make them as directed above, but instead 
•f tying them in clolhs, place them in a buttered dish, and balcc them. 

Suet Dumplings. — Make the paste the same as for suet pudding, wet 
your cloth, uust Hour over it, put in the paste the size intended, tie up, 
and boil an hour. 

Rice Dumplings. — Boil a pound office in two quarts of water till it 
becomes quite dry, then take it olij and spread it to cool, lightening 
tlie kernels with a fork. Pare a dozen juicy apples- scoop out the 
con s, and till the cavities with lemon and sugar. Spread over every 
apple a thick coating of the boiled rice. Tie each in a separate cloih. 
Boil an hour and a half— be careful you do not bixak in tui-uing them 
out. 

Plain Indian Dumplings. — Tndian dumplings are very good made 
plain, by merely wetting the meal with scakling water, or milk, and 
adding a little salt. You can, if you choose, boil the whole together 
in a mould or buttered bowl ; cook at least four hours. If they are lo be 
served for dessert, add a little molasses, and if you have it, a quu^tet 
jf a pound of finely minced buet. 

P^rnson Dumplings. — Line a basin with a good hot paste crust, roll 
e^ rather thin, lill it with damsons, cover it and bcU it in a cloth for 
an hour ; wheii done pour melted butter over it, grate sugar loimd tbc^ 
•t^tC® of the dish, and serTO. 



UOaiE COOK BOOK. 



1)9 



PANCAKES AND FRITTERS. 



Rice Pancakes. — To half a pound of rice put two lhirtl« of a pint of 
Titer, boil it to a jelly ; when old, add to iteisht ep^a, a pint of cream, 
little salt and nutmeg, and a half of a pound of butter melted ; mix 
well, adding the butter last, and working it only so much as will make 
the batter suflic'ently thick. Fry them in lard, but employ as little a» 
il is possible to fry thsm with. 

A^^w England Pancakes. — Mix a pint of cream, five spoonfuls of fine 
flour, seven yolks, and four whites of eggs, and a very little salt ; frj 
them very thin in fresh butter, and between each strew su^ar ana 
t'mnamon. Send up six or eight at once. 

Flutters. — Make them of any of the batters directed for pancakes 
by dropping a small quantity into the pan ; or make the plains sort 
and put pared apples sliced and cored into the batter, and fry some of 
It with each slice. Currants, or sliced lemon a? thin as paper, make 
an agreeable change. — Any sort of sweetmeat or ripo fruit may be 
made into fritters. 

Oyster Fritters — Blanch some of the largest oysters you can get 
but do not let them boil ; take oflF the beard, strain the liquor, and 
season with cayenne pepper and a few drops of essence of anchovies ; 
make this liquor into a good tliick batter, using a little cream, have 
your stewpan with lard quite hot, then dip them separately into the 
batter, then fry them, use silver skewers for them, if not dish on a 
napkin and fried parslev, 

Apple Fritters. — Take two or three large nieseting apples, piirc thtm 
thin, cut them half an inch thick, lay them on a pie dioh, pour braudy 
over them, let them lie two hours ; make a thick batter, using t i\'o 
eggs, have clean lard, and make it quite hot ; fry two at a time, a nice 
light brown, put them on the back of a sieve on paper, sift pounded 
sugar over them, glaze them with a shovel or salamander ; dish on a 
napkin. 

After they are cut in slices take out the core with a small round 
cutter. 

Jt'vtato Fritters. — Boil two large potatoes, scrape them fine ; beat 
f««ur yolks and three whites of eggs, and add to the above out largo 
spoonful of cream, another of sweet wine, a squeeze of lemon, and a 
little nutmeg. Beat this batter half an hour at least. It will be ex- 
tremely light. Put a good quantity of fine lard in a stew-pan, «ind drop 
a spoonful of the batter at a time into it. Fry thera ; and serve as a 
sauce, a glass of white wine, tlie juice of lemon, one desert-spoonful of 
pc«\ch-leaf or almond water, and some white sugar wanned together 
not to be seiTcd in the dish. 



too 



HOME OOOK BOOK. 



OUSTARDS 



OENKRAL DIRECT lOVfl. 

Tlie common rule for these is eight eggs to a quart of milk ; hut yoQ 
• can make very good custard with six, or even four eggs to the ouart, 
Oustard may be boiled, or baked, cither in cups, or one large drsh. It 
may be put in a shallow paste, and prepared as a pie, or into a deep 
paste for a pudding. There should always be a little salt in the flavor- 
mg. The milk should always be boiled, and cooled again boforo being 
used; this makes it much r»''her. ./ . 

.' CvMardft Boiled. — Boil one quart of sweet milk, with stick cinnamon, 
the rind of a lemon, and a tew laurel leaves or bitter almonds, and su- 
gar. Beat the yolks of eight eggs along with the whites of four of them ; 
Add a little milk, and strain the egg into another dish. When the 
quart of milk boils, ta'< e it off the fire, and strain it ; then stir the egg 
into it. Return the whole to the saucepan, and set it on the fire again 
stirring constantly. Let it come to the boilinj; point ; then take it off 
the fire, pour it into a large jug, and continue stirring it till it is nearly 
cold. It should now have the consistency of thick cream, and ie ready 
for being poured into custard. 

"Rice Custard. — Boil one quart of milk, with a little salt, and any 
Qavoring you HaC, and into this pour three table-spoonfuls of groimd 
rice, mix smooth with a little cold milk, and one egg well beaten. Give 
it, a boil up till it thickens, stirring constantly, and when cool put into 
cups. 

Custard, Baked.— JjoW a pint of cream with mace and cinnamon ; 
when cold, take four eggs, leaving out two of the whites, a little rose 
and orange-flower water, a little white wine, nutmeg, and sugar to 
your taste ; mix them well together, and bake them in china cups. 

Lemon Custard. — Take the yolks of ten eggs beaten, strain them, 
tnd whip them with a pint of cream ; boil the juice of two lemons 
Bweetened with the rind of one, when cold strain it to the cream and 
«ggs ; when it almost boils, put it into a dish, grate over tt o .sad of a 
tem^Hj and br^wn it with a salamander. 



Viu-'^l ■ >■'' 



ROME OOOS BOOK. 



101 



OREAMS AND ICES. 



cinnamon 



Currant Cream. — Take some currants thoroughly ripe, bnii««« them 
in boiled cream, add beaten cinnamon, and sweeten to your taste ; tben 
■train it through a fine sieve, and serve. 

Sti-awberries and raspberries may be done in the same way. Th« 
fruit ought to be sweetened previous to putting in tho cream, which 
should 1^ used aUnost cold, else it is liable to curdle. 

Ice Creama. — Split into pieces a vanilla bean, and boil it in a very 
little milk, till the flavor is well extracted ; then strain it. Mix two 
table-spoonfuls of arrow-root powder, or the pame quantity of fine 
powdered starch, with just sufficient cold milk to make it a thin paste ; 
rubbing it till quite smooth. Boil together a pmt of cream and a pint 
of rich milk; and while boiling stir in the preparation of arrow-root, and 
the milk in which the vanilla has been boiled. When it has boiled 
hard, take it off, stir in a half a pound of powdered loaf-sugar, and let 
it come to a boil again. Then strain it, and put it into a froezcr plaoel 
in a tub that has a hole in the bottom to let out the water ; and 8u^ 
round the fi-eezer on all sides with ice broken finely, and mixed with 
coarse salt. Beat the cream hard for half an hour. Then let it rest 
occasionally taking off the cover, and scraping down with a long spoon 
the cream that sticks to the sides. When it is well frozen, transfer it 
to a mould ; surround it with fresh salt and ice, and then freeze it over 
again. If you wish to flavor it with lemon instead of vanilla, take a 
large lump of sugar before you powder it, and rub it on the outside of 
a large lemon till the ye.Uovv is all rubbed off upon the sugar. Then, 
when the sugar is e^ powdered, mix with it the juice. Do ti. same 
for orange. 



^m 



^«!PfPWW*»'m*« 



102 



HOME OOOK BOUK. 



a lemon ; boil it up, then stir it til! almost cold ; put the juice of a )»• 
mou in a dish or bowl, and pour the cream upon it, stirring ittill quiU 
cold. 
It is general eaten with preserves. 

Orange Cream. — Pave four oranges very thin, into twelve spoonfuls 
of water, and squeeze the juice on six ounces of finely powdered sugar. 
Beat the yolks of nine eggs well; add the peel and juice, beat them to- 
gether for some time. Then strain the whole through a flannel into a 
silver, or very nice bloclc tin sauce-pan ; set it over a gentle fire, and 
Btiv it one way till pretty thick, and scalding hot, but not boiling, or it 
will curdle. Pour it into jelly glasses. A few lumps of sugar should 
be rubbed hard on the lemons before they are pared, or after, as the 
peel will be so thin as not to take all the essence, and the sugar will 
extract it, and give a better color and flavor. 

Calves^ Foot Jelly, — For one mould chop up two calves' feet, put them 
on in about four quarts of water to boil, this should be done the day 
before you require the jelly, keep it well skimmed and boil gently aU 
day, it will then be reduced to about two quarts ; the next morning 
take off" all the grease and wash the top with a Uttle warm water, then 
rince it with cold, place the stock in the proper size stewpan to allow 
it to boil well, then put in a paring of lomon, without any white adher- 
ing to it, two or three cloves, a pidce of cinnamon, a few bruised cori- 
ander seeds, and a bay leaf, let it boil for a few minutes then take it 
off" to get cool. Have ready broken in a basin six or eight whites of 
eggs and the shells, chop them up together, squeeze five or six lemons, 
stmin the juice, add sugar to the whites of eggs and a glass of cold wa- 
ter, then add the lemon juice; add all this well mixed into the calves' 
foot stock, place it on your fire and let it rise to the top of your stew- 
pan, be careful it does not go over, then take it ofi" the fire, place it on 
the cover and put some hot coals upon it, let it stand a few minutes, 
then run it repeatedly through the jelly bag until beautifully bright and 
clear j flavor it with what may be required,' 

Rice Jelly. — "Wash a lai^ tea-cupful of rice in several waters. 
put it into a saucepan of cold water to cover it, and when it boils, ada 
two cupfuls of rich milk, and boil it till it becomes dry ; put it into a 
shape and press it m well. When cold, turn it out and serve with pre- 
served cuiTants, raspberries, or any sort of fruit round it. 

Blanc Mange — Boil 1 ounce of isinglass, 3 ounces of sweet and 6 
bitter almonds, well pounded in a quart of milk ; let it boil until the 
isinglass is disolved ; then sweeten it, stir it until nearly cold, and put 
it into the mould. 

Rice Blanc Mange — Wash and pick a tes^apful of rice, which boil in 
ft pint of milk till quite soft. Sweeten or season it with pounded cinna- 
mon or grated nutmeg. Pour it mto a shape, and, when cold, tiu*n <t 
out as already directed. It may be garnished with red or black cut'' 
rant jelly, which is to be eaten idonf^ with 't. 



HOME COOK BOOK 



103 



nice of a )». 
>g it tili quite 



t^e spoonful* 
derod sugar. 
3at them to- 
annel info a 
fire, and 
)oiling, or it 
ugar should 
tfter, as the 
sugar Tdll 



t, put them 
ne the day 

gently aU 
t morning 
rater, then 
n to allow 
lite adher- 
iiised cori- 
n take it 
whites of 
ix lemons, 
f cold wa- 
he calves' 
)ur stew- 
lace it on 

minutes, 
right and 

waters. 
>oil8, add 
it into » 
^ith pr&* 

it and 6 
until the 
and put 

b boil in 

d cinna* 

twra <k 

i>ck cui'* 



Marmalade. — ^Marmalade may be composed almost of any fhut, the 
bear, however for this purpose are apricots, peachf^s, oranges, quinces. 
jggs, plums, apples, &c., they are usually made by boiling the fniit and 
sugar together to a kind of pulp, stining them constantly whilst on the 
fire, it is kept in pots which must not be covered till the marmalade 
Is quite colc^ the proportion of sugar is half a pound to each pound of 
fitiit. 

A Charlotte Russe. — Cut as many very thin slices of white bread as 
will cover the bottom and line the sides of a baking-dish, but first rub 
k thick with butter. Put apples, in thin slices, into the dish, in layers, 
till full, strewing sugar between, and bits of butter. In the meantime, 
Boak as many slices of bread as will coyer the whole, in warm milk, 
over which lay a plate, and a weight to keep the bread close on the 
apples. Bake slowly three hours. To a middl>Dg-sized dish use half a 
pound of butter iu the whole. 



JELLIES— PRESERVma, BREAD, &o. > , 

.•,,-•■ ,:•/ ■':} ,„::'..^ :,■:-; "j,J."v -ixr'i ■n/^r^ ,.,,.'.\- ..^.,.:- .,,■ .... i 

jT.;;v/; ^.■■..,;.; v; v-;:;r;,^'; PRESERVING. . ^. 

Oeneral Directione. — Gather the fruit when it is dry. Do not boil 
the fruit too long, as that hardens it ; pour boiling water over the sieves 
used. Let the pots and jara containing fresh-made sweets remain un- 
covered for two days, then soak a split bladder and tie it tightly over 
the top ; in drj'ing it will shrink to the pot and render the latter per- 
fectly air-tight. Keep preserves in a dry but not in a warm place. Be 
sure to use sufficient sugar ; this, with ke.>ping them air-tight, is the 
only way to avoid the risk of their spoiling. 

To Clarify Sugar for Sweetmeats, — For each pound of sugar allow half 
a pint of water, and for every three pounds, allow the white of an egg. 
Mix when cold, boil a few minutes, and skim it ; let it stand ten min- 
utes, then skim it again, and strain it. 

To Clarify Isinglass. — Dissolve an ounce of isin?!ass in a cupful of 
boiling water, skim it, and drain it through a coarse cloth. Jellies, can- 
dies, and blancmange should be made in a clean copper pot, or a bell- 
metal preserving-pan, and stirred up with a silver or wooden spoon* 

Candied FniiVs. —Preserve the fruit, then dip it in sugar boiled to 
candy thickness, afterwards dry it. Grapes may be thus dipped uncooked 
and then dried. Or fruit may be taken from the sirup when preserved 
rolled in powdered sugar, 'and afterwards set on a sieve to dry. 



m 



I 



I 



]\ 



\\ 



I 



lOi 



HOME OOCE BOOK. 



Red or Black Currant Jdly. — Strip the currants, put them in jnrB or 
|ians, and bake them ; Btrain off the juice through a sieve ; having loaf sugar 
pounded and dried, in the proportion of one pound to one pint of juice 
set the juice over the fire, and when boiling, throw in the sugcr gradu- 
ally, stirring the whole time ; boil five minutes after all the sugar has 
been dissolved, if left too long over the fire, the jelly will become can- 
died. Pour into small-sized jars. By thus method, the jelly will be 
perfectly clear without skimming, which eaves waste and troyble. 

Aj^le Jetty. — Take two dozen of large golden pippins or golden rus- 
sets ; pare them and put in as much water as vnll cover them \ lei them 
boil as fas'i; us possible till the apples are reduced to a pulp ; strain them 
through a jelly bag, and to every pint of jeJly put one pound of 
fine sugar ; boil it over a quick fire for a quarter of an hour, add lemon 
juice to your taste, keep it boiling and skim it. Try a little oa a plate ; 
wheait jellies, or set«i, it is boil^ enough. 

Quince Jetty, — Pare, quarter, core, and weigh some ripe quinces, as 
quickly as possible, and throw them as they are done into part of the 
water in which they are to be boiled ; allow 1 pint of tins to each 
pound of the fruit, and simmer it gently until it is a little broken. 
Turn the whole into a jelly bag, or strain the liquid through a fine cloth, 
and let it drain very closely from it. Weigh the juice, and boi) for 
twenty minutes, take it from the fire and stir into it, until it is enare- 
ly dissolved, one pound of sugar for each pound of juice, keep it con- 
stantly stirred and thoroughly cleared from scum, boil from ten totwen* 
minutes longer, or until it jellies in falling from the skimmer. 

Raspberry Jt^^j^.— This is the most agreeable of all jellies. Crush the 
raspberries, and strain them through a wet cloth. Put the juice into 
a preserving-pan, with three-quarters of a pound of sugar to one pound 
of juice ; boil it ten minutes, and take care that it does not darken , 
.remove the pan off the fire ; stram the juice through a bag and pour it 
into pots. Do not touch the bag till all the jelly has passed througk 
else it may become thick. 

Rhubarb Jam, — Peel the stalks, and cut them up about an inch lonej 
put them into a broad t'n or copper pan with sufficient water to let 
them float. Let it boil till reduced to a pulp, keeping it well stir- 
red from the bottom. Pass the pulp through a colander or coarse sieve, 
and to each pint add from three-quarters of a pound to a pound of su- 
gar, either loaf or moist ; put it back into tl'e pan and boil it for aroth* 
er half hour, still keeping it stirred. Try now, by dropping a little on 
a plate, if it is done eno igh ; it should be of the consistence of jelly ; 
if it spreads, boil it a 11 tie longer, till stiff beneath the finger. Peui 
it into pots or jars, and when cold, cover and tie it down like other pr» 
Sdrvejt 



HOMR COOK BOOK. 



105 



irnces, as 



IS enare- 



Cherry Jan,,, — Having stoned three pounds of cherries, braise them 
and et the juice run from them ; then boil together half a pound of 
red currant juice, and half a pound of loaf sugar j put the cherries into 
these whi'st they are boiling, aud strew on them three quarters of a 
J ound of sifted sugar. Boil ail together very fast for ha f un hour, and 
then put it into pots. When cold, put en brandy papers 

Blackberry Pie, — Allow three quarters of a pound of oitwn sugar 
to a pound of fruit. Boil the fruit half an hour ; then add the sugal 
and boil all together for teu minutes. 

Raspberry Jam. — Allo'v a oound of sugar to each pound of frait ; 
press them with a spoon in au earthen dieu, add the sugar, and boil all 
together for fifteen minutes. 

Gooseberry Jam. — To ev^»y nnund of gooseberries add a pound of 
sugar; bruise the gooseberries iu a mortar, and boil them well. When 
cold put the jam in pots. 

Gooseberry Fool. — Pick a PV9'i of fult-grown unripe gooseberries, 
and put them into a saucepan'witl^ ?' I'ttle water. Cover them up and 
let them simmer very softly. When fhe^y are tender, but not so much 
done as to burst, take them off, strain the water from them, and turn 
them into a dish. Now bruise them to a fine pulp, and sweeten them 
with sugar to your taste. Let them scand till cool, and then add new 
milk or cream. 

To Preserve Peaches, Apricots, Nectaripes, and Plums, — Weigh the 
peaches, put them into a preserving pan full oi cold water with a slice 
or two of lemon ; set them on a s ow fire, have ready a s»eve and » 
napkin, and be careful not to do them too much. 

Some of the peaches will be ready sooner than others j when tbey 
begin to be soft they are done enough ; take them out as they become 
soft and drain them on a sieve, and let them stand until cold ; then 
make a syrup, to every pound of peaches allowing a poimd ot loaf 
sugar ; use some of the water in which the peaches were boiled for the 
syrup. Crack the pits of half a dozen peaches throw them into hot 
water and remove their skins, then boil them with the syrup you aro 
making. Put the peaches into jars and glasses, and pour the sjrup 
over them. 

Cut several round pieces of paper, dip them in brandy, lay them 
over the preserves, and tie up the jars. 

Apricots, Nectarines and Plums, may be preserved in the same 
manner. ' 

This way of preserving peaches is much preferable to cutting them 
ap and then preserving them. The fruit should not be permitted to 
boil until it becomes shrivelled. 

5* 



UOME OOOK BOOK. 



To preserve Green-gages. — Gather the finest you can get, and befoM 
they are quite ripe, put at the bottom of a bell-metal pot, Bome vino* 
.eaves, roll your plums in vine-leaves, put alternate layers of p jurat 
and leaveb till your pot is full ; cover them quite with water, put thcra 
over a very slow fire ; when the sUn begins to rise, take them off* and 
put them on a sieve to drain ; make a syrup with some of the fatilty 
plums, put a pound of sugar to a pound of plums ; when the sugar is 
dissolved and skimmed quite clear, put in your plums and let them 
boil gently for ten or fifteen minutes ; take them off and iet them 
stand in the pan til] quite co d, then put them on again and let them 
boil very gently for twenty minutes or half an hour; then take them 
out as free from the syrup as poss'ble, and boil the syrup til! it ropes, 
then pour it boiling over your plums. All kinds of plums may be done 
this way. 

To preserve Strawberries and Raspberries whole. — To two pounds 
of fine large strawberries add two pounds of powdered sugar, and put 
them into a preserving kettle, over a slow fire, till the sugar is melted; 
then boil them precise !y twenty minutes, as fast ai possible ; have rea- 
dy a number of small jars, and put the fruit in boiling hot. Cork and 
seal the jars immediately, and keep them through the summer in a cold 
dry cellar. The jars must be heated before the hot fruit is poured in 
otherwise they will break. 

To preserve Quinces. — Pare, core, and halve the fruit. Boil the cores 
and parings, and strain the liquor. Boil the quince in the same until 
quite tender. Make a syrup with the liquor, allowing a pound of 
sugar to a pound of fruit. When the syrup is clear put in the quinces, 
a few at a time, rt movmg them carefully as they are done, which will 
be in a few minutes. Boil the syrup until it is thick and clear. 

Pine Apples. — Take pineapples as ripe as you can i ossibly get them, 
pare them, and cut them into thin slices. Weigh them, and to each 
pound of pine-apple allow a pound of loaf-sugar. Place a layer of the 
pine-apple slices in the bottom of a large deep dish, and sjirinklo it 
thickly ^itha layer of the sugar, which nmst first be powdered. Then 
put another layer of the pine-apple, and sugar it well ; and so on till 
the dish is full, finishing with a layer of sugar on the top. Cover thj 
dish, and let it stand a'l night. In the morning remove the s'iccs of 
pine-apple to a tureen. Pour the syrup into a presurviug kettle, and 
Bkim it at least half an hour. Do not remove it from the fire, til the 
scum has entire y ceased to rise. Then pour the syrup, boiling hot, 
over the slices of pine-apple in the tureen. Cover it and let it stand 
till cold. Then transfer the eiiced pine-apple and the syrup to wide- 
mouthed glass jarSj or cover them well, pasting down thicn wliite \*\^t 
over the top. 



nOMB COOK BOOK. 



107 



To preserve Pumpkins. — Choose a thick yel'ow pumpUiu nhich 19 
sweet ; pare, take out the seedii, and Jut the thick part into any form 
you choose, round, square, egg-shaped, stars, wheels, &c ; weigh it j 
put it into a stone jar or deep dish, and place it in a pot of water to 
boil, till the pumpkin is so soft that you can pass a fork through it. 
The pot may be kept uncovered, and be sure that no water boils into 
thejar. 

Take the weight of the pumpkin in good loaf sugar j clarify it, and 
boil the syrup with the juice of one lemon to every pound of sugar and 
the peel cut in little squares. When the pumpkin is soft, put it into 
the syrup, and simmer gently about an hour, or till the liquor is thick, 
and rich ; then let it cool, and put it in glass jars well secured from 
air. It is a very rich sweetmeat. 

Brandy Peaches^ Plums^ <^c. — Gather peaches before they are quite 
ripe, prick them with a large needle, and rub oft" the down with a piece 
of flannel. Gut a quill and pass it carefully round the stone to loosen 
it. Put them into a large [reserving pan, with cold water rather 
more than enough to cover them, and let the water become gradually 
scalding hot. If the water does more than simmer very gently, 
or if the fire be fierce, the fruit will be likely to crack. When they 
are tender, lift them carefully out, and fold them up in flannel or a soft 
tablecloth, in several folds. Have ready a quart, or more, as the 
peaches require, of the best white brandy, and dissolve ten ounces of 
powdered sugar in it. When the peaches are cool, put them into a 
glass jar, and pour the brandy and sugar over them. Cover with 
leather and a bladder. Apricots and Plums in the same way. 

Preserving Fruit without Sugar. — It is a business that cannot so 
well be done in families as in large manufactories, where everything is 
arranged for convenience ; but still with a little experience and cai-eful 
attention, every family can save enough of the various fmiis of the sea- 
son to furnish their tables with a great delicacy during that portioo 
of the year when <;hey can get nothing of the kind. Tlie whole secret 
consists in expelling the air from bottles or cans, by heat, and then 
sealing up the contents hermetically. If the article to be preserved is 
peaches, select such us you would for sweetmeats, and pair and cut 
them so they can be put in the bottle, and you must do this with the 
least possible delay, or they will be coloi*ed by tho atmosphere. Some 
persons who want them to retain their natural whiteness, put thetn un- 
der water. \. ' en the bottle is full, cork it tight and wire down the 
cork with very little projection above the glass. When you have bot- 
tles enough to fill a kettle, such as may be most convenient:, put them 
in and boil with the water all around up to the nozzle, for about fifteen 
or twenty minutes, or until the bottle appears to be full of steam, the 
atmosphere having been forced out through the cork. As soon as tb.<» 
bottles are cool enough to handle, dip the corks in sealing-wax sc as to 



^mmmmm 



m» 



?os 



HOM^ COOK BOOK. 



tfofer them quite tight. An additional precaution is used by som/' \a 
putting tin foil over the wax. 

Another plan is to cook the fruit slightly in a kettle, and then put 
it in cans or bottles, and pour hot syrup of sugar in to fill up the in* 
terstices, and then cork and seal. The heat of the fruit and syiup 
answering to expel the air. But the less they are cooked, or sweet* 
ened, the more natural will be the taste, like fi-esh fruit, when opened. 
We have eaten peaches a year old that we could not tell from those 
fiugared an hour before. 

Tomatoes are easily preserved, and retain their freshness better 
than almost any other fruit. The small kind aw only used. Scald 
and peel them without breaking the flesh. Bottles should hold about 
a quart only, because when once opened, the contents must be used up 
at once. Bottles made on purpose, with large throats, and a ring on 
the inside are the best, and bottles are better than cans for all acid 
fruit. The cans, however, are more easily secured by solder, than the 
bottles by corks and wax, as the air is let out through a small punc- 
ture after the lar.^e opening is soldered up and cans heated, and that 
hole stopped with a single drop of solder. 

Every article of fruit will keep fresh if the air is exhausted and the 
bottle sealed tight. The least particle of air adiuiitted through any im* 
perfection of the sealing will spoil the fruit. If the air could be 
driven out without heat, there would be no need of any cooking, and 
only just enough should be given to expel the air and not change the 
taste. Many persons prefer to add syrup made by about one pound of 
sugar to a quart of water, to all suitable fruits. Green com, beans, 
peas, tomatoes, pie plant, currants, gooseberries, cherries, plums, rasp- 
berries, strawberries, peaches, are the most common things put up in this 
wsuy. They add greatly to the pleasures of the tablo, and to the health 
of ^hose who consume them ; quite unlike, in that respect, the common 
preserves. 

We have known fruit for pies put up in three-quart cans, by partially 
cooking in an open kettle in a syrup just sweet enough for use, and put- 
ting the fruit in the cans hot and soldering immediately. It kept thus 
perfectly. 

Some fruits keep much better, and with less heating than others. 
Peas are among the hardest articles to keep ; they contain so much 
fixed air. 

We advise e\ery family in the country to try this plan of putting 
up fruits for winter use^ on a small scale this year, and if successfid 
enlai^e upon it next year. 

Bread, Tea Cakea^ ^c. — In summer bread should be mixed with 
cold water. * In damp weather the water should be tepid, and in cold 
weather quite warm. If the yeast is new, a small quantity will make 
the bread rise. In the country yeast cakes are found very convenient 
out they seldoix; make the bread as good as fresh lively ) uast 



HOME COOK BOOK. 



109 



J4i TiUy Bread. — Take eight pounds of fine wheat fl( mr, and sill it into 
your bread-dish ; rub well intotheflouratable-spoonfulof lardorbuttcji'. 
Make a deep hole in the middle of the flour, and having ready a quart 
of water, lukewarm, with a heaped table-spoonful of tine salt, mix it 
with flour and yeast, pour it into the cavity ; take a large spoon and stir 
in the surrounding flour until you have a th*'^k batter ; then fi'jatter a 
handful of flour over the dish, cover up your batter and put it in a 
warm place, if it is cold weather ; if summer anywhere will be warm 
enough. This is called setting- a sponge. When the batter shows 
pretty determined signs of fermentation, pour in as much warm water 
as will make the whole mass of the flour and batter of a proper con- 
sistence. Knead it well, until it is perfectly dean and smooth ; put it 
directly into your bread-pans, which must be first well greased. la 
about half an hour it will be ready to put in the ovon, whl^Jl should be 
properly heated beforehand. 

Large Bakings. — For large bakings, the following method is ^est. 
The common way is to put the flour into a trough, tub, or pan, suffi- 
ciently large to permit its swelling to three times the size it at present 
occupies. Make a deep hole in the middle of the flour. For half a 
bushel of flour take a pint of thick yeast, that is, yeast not frothy, mix 
it with about a pint of soft water, made blood-warm. The water must 
not be hot ; then gently i aix with the yeast and water as much flour as 
will bring it to the consistence of a thick or soft batter, pour this mix- 
ture into the hole in the llour and cover it by sprinkling it with flour } 
lay over it a flannel or sack, and in cold weather place it near — not too 
near, the fire. This is called laying the sponge ; when the sponge — or 
this mixture of water, yeast and flour, has risen enough to crack the dry 
flour by which it was covered, sprinkle over the top six ounces of salt, 
[more or less to suit the taste ;] mind, the time when the salt is ap- 
plied is of great importance. We have seen directions in which we 
are told to mix the salt tvith the water and yeast. The effect of this 
would be to prevent fermentation, or, in other words, to prevent the 
sponge from rising. After the salt is sprinkled over the sponge, work 
it with the rest of the flour, and add from time to time, warm water [not 
hot] till the whole is sufficiently moistened ; that is, scarcely as moist 
as pie- crust. The degree of moistness, however, which the mixture 
ought to possess, can only be taught by experience ; when the water 
is mixed with the composition, then work it well by pushing your 
fists into it, then rolling it out with your hands, folding it up again, 
kneading it again with your fists till it is completely mixed, and formed 
into a stiff, tough smooth substance, which is called dough— great ca)*e 
must be taken that your dough be not too moist, on the one hand, and 
on the other, that every particle of flour bo thoroughly incorporated. 
Form your dough into a lump like a large dumpling, again cover it up 
ftod keep it warm, to rise or ferment. After it has been rising about 



110 



HOMK COOK BOOK. 



twenty minutes, or half an hour, make the dough nto loaves, first hay 
ing shaken a little flour over the bread to prevent sticking. The loavei 
may be made up in tin moulds, or if it be desirad to make it into 
loaves to be baked without the use of moulds, divide the dough into equal 
parts, according to the size you wish to have your loaves, make each 
part into the form of a dumpling and lay one dumpling, if we may so 
speak, upon another — then, the oven being properly heated, by means 
of an instrument called a peel — a sort of wooden shovel — put in your 
loaves, and immediately shut the door as close as possible. A goo( 
deal of nicety is required in properly placing the loaves in the oven—* 
they must be put pretty closely together. The bread will take from 
an hour and a half to two hours to bake properly. 

Brawn or Dyspepsia Bread.— Take six quarts of wheat meal, rather 
coarsely ground, one tea-cup of good yeast, and half a tea-cup of mo 
lasses, mix these with a pint of milk-warm water and a tea-spoonful 
of saleratus. Make a hole in the flour and stir this mixture in the mid- 
dle of the meal till it is like batter. Then proceed as with the fine 
flour bread. Make the dough when sufficiently light into four loaves, 
which will weigh two pounds per loaf when baked. It requires a hotter 
oven than fine flour bread, and must bake about an hour and a half. 

Rye and Indian Bread, —There are many different proportions of 
mixing it — some put one-third Indian meal with two of rye ; others 
like one-third rye and two of Indian ; others prefer it half and half. 

If you use the largest proportion of rye meal, make your dough stiff, 
so that it will mould into loaves : when it is two-thirds Indian, it 
should be softer, and baked in deep earlhen or tin pans, after the fol^ 
lowing rule : 

Take 2 quarts of sifted Indian meal ; put it into a glazed earthen pan^ 
sprinivle over it a table-spoonful of fine salt ; pour over it about a quart 
of boiling water, stir and work it till every part of the meal is the 
rougly wet ; Indian meal absorbs a greater quantity of water. When 
it is about milk-warm, work in 1 quart of rye meal and a tea-cupful of 
lively yeaat, mixed with half a pint of warm water j add more warm 
water, if needed. Work the mixture well with your hands : it should 
be stiff, oiit not firm as flour dough. Have ready a large, deep, well- 
buttered pan ; put in the dough, and smooth the top by putting your 
hand in wr.rm water, and then patting down the loaC Set this to rite 
in a warm p lace in the winter ; in the summer it should not be put by 
fire. When it begins to crack on the top, which will usuall}- be 
in about an hour vv an hour and a half, put it into a well-heaied 
ovsn, and bake it nearly 3 hours. It is better to let it stand 
m the oven all night, unless the weather is warm. Indian meal requires 
to be well cooked. The loaf ^vill weigh about 4 lbs. Pan bread koept 
best in large loaves. 



nOMIC COOK BOOK. 



in 



Common Yeast. — Tliicken two quarts of water with fine flour, aboni 
«hrce spoonfuls; boil it half an hour, sweeten it with half a spoonful of 
brown sugar ; when nearly cold put into it four spoonfuls of frtsh yeast 
and pour it into a jup, shake it well together, and let it stand one day 
to ferment near the lire without being covered. There will be a thin 
liquor on the top, which must be poured oil'; shake the remainder and 
cork it up for use. Take always four spoonfuls of the old mixture to 
ferment the next quantity, keeping it always in succession. A half-peck 
loaf will require about a gill. 

The bottles should be closely corked until the fermentation is over. 
After twenty-four hours the bottles may be well corked. They should 
bo kept in a cold place. Yeast will not keep g- od over ten days unless 
it is made into little biscuits. For that purpose the process is the same 
as above, except that the yeast is taken from the bottles after it fer- 
ments, flour enough added to it to make a thick dough — it is then cut 
into biscuits and dried in the sun. BcTore the biscuits arc used they 
should be soaked all night- -the water from them is mixed with the 
bread. One biscuit to a large loaf or two small ones. 

To Make French Bread and French Rolls. — Mix the yolks of twelve 
e^ga and the whites of eight beaten and strained, a peck of fine flour 
and a quart of good yeast (but not bitter), with as much warm milk 
as will make the whole into a thin light dough ; stir it well, but do not 
knead it. Put the dough into dishes, and set it to rise ; then turn 
it into a quick oven r, when done rasp the loaves. 

French rolls are made by nibbing into every pound of flour an ounce 
of butter, one egg beaten, a little yeast, and sufficient milk to make a 
dough moderately stitf ; beat it up, but do not kuead it. Let it r'>&e 
and bake in rolls on tins ; when baked, r<asp them. 

To Make fine Rolls.— "Warm a hit of butter in half a pint of milk, 
add to it two spoonfuls of small-beer yeast and some salt; with these 
ingredients mix two pounds of flour ; let it rise an hour, and knead it 
well ; form the rolls and bake them in a quick oven for twenty minutes 

Excellent Biscuits. — Take of flour 2 lbs., carbonate of ammonia 3 
drachms in fine powder, white sugar 4 oz., arrow root 1 oz., butter 4 
oz., 1 egg ; mix into a stiff paste with new milk, and beat them well 
with a rolling-pin for half an hour ; roll out ihin, and cut them out 
with a docker, and bake in a quick oven for 15 minutes. 

Tea Cakes. — Take of flour 1 lb., sugar 1 oz„ butter 1 oz., muriatic 
acid 2 drachms, bi-carbonate of soda 2 druciims, milk G oz., water G oz. 
Rub the butter into the flour ; dissolve the sugar and soda in the milic, 
and the acid in the water. First add the milk, &c. to the flour, and 
iir^rtiaUy mix: then the ^^ater and acid, and mix well togethw, divide 



112 



aOMB COOK BOOK. 



t. 



Into three portions, and bake 26 minutes. Flat round tins or earthen 
pans are the best to bkac them in. If the above is niade with bauing 
powder, a tea-spoonful may be substituted for the acid and soda in tiie 
abovt receipt, and all the other directions carried out as stJited above. 
If buttermilk is used, the acid, milk, and water, must be let out. 

Milk Bread. — to 14 pounds of flour use a pint of yeast, 4 eggs, and 
milk of the warmth it comes from the cow ; make it into a dough, the 
thikcness of hasty-pudding ; leave it 2 hours to rise ; sift over it a 
sufficient quantity of fine saltj work it with flour to a proper consis- 
tence. .It takes a quick oven : always try a little bit before the bread 
is made up, as it will show the state of the bread as well as the oven. 

A very light Potato Bread. — Dry 2 pounds of fine flour, and nib in- 
co it a pound of warm mealy potatoes ; add warm milk and water, with 
a sufficient quantity of yeast and salt, at the proper time ; leave it 2 
hours to rise in a warm corner, in winter ; bake it in tin shapes, other- 
wise it will spread as the dougn will rise very light. It makes nice hot 
rolls for butter. An excellent tea or bun bread is made of it, by add- 
ing sugar, eggs, and cm'rants. 

Corn Meal Rusk. — Take 6 cups of com meal, 4 cups wheat dour, 2 
cups of molasseSf 2 table-E*poouful, of salcratus mix the whole together 
and knead into dough, then make two cakes of it and bake it three 
quarters of (^n hour. 

Rusk. — 1 cup of butter, 1 of sugar, 1 pound of flour, 1 pint of milk, 
3 eggs, 1 cup of yeast, teaspoonful, bake in quick oven. 

Corn Bread. — 1 quart of milk, 4 eggs, tablespoon of sugar, 1 of butter, 
tea-spoonful of salt, some nutmeg, a large tea-spoonful of soda, and 2 of 
cream of tartar j stir in the meal until it makes a thick batter and bake 
in buttered tins in a quick oven. 

India Johnny Cake.— I quart, 1 cup of flour, 2 eggs, 1 cup of molasses 
1 tea-spoonful of saleratus, 1 of ginger, then stir iu the meal 

To Make Pancakes. — Beat up three eggs and a quart of milk j make 
it up into a batter with flour, a little sail, a spoonful of ground ginger 
and a little grated lemon-peel j let it be of a fine thickness and per- 
fectly smooth. Clean youi fryingpan thoroughly, and put iato it a 
good lump of dripping or butter j when it is hot pour in a cupful of 
batter and let it run all over of an equal thickness j shake the pan fre- 
quently ihat the batter may not stick, and when you think it is done 
on one side, toss it over ; if you cannot, turn it with a slice ; and when 
botn sides are of a nice light brown, lay it on a dish beiv.re the fire 
iliew sugar over it, and so do the I'cst They should be eaten directly 
o»* they will become heavy. 



HOME COOK BOOK* 



118 



)f molassea 



ihiU iVi/<«r«— Make a batter of flo'ir, milk, ind eggs, of wlutertr 
richness vou desire ; stir into it either raspberries, currants, or any 
other fruit F17 in hot lard the same as pancakes. 

Diet Bread.—One pound of flour, one of sugar, nine eggs, leaving out 
some of the whites, a little mace and rose water. 

Wonders.- 'Two pounds of flour, three quarters of a pound of sugai 
half a pound of butter, nine eggs, a little mace ana rose water. 

A light cake to bake in cupa,— One and a half pounds of sugar, half a 
pound of butter rubbed into two pounds of flour, one glass of wine, o*« 
of rose water, eight eggs, and hall' a nutmeg. 

Sponge Cake. — Five eggs, half a pound of sugar, and a quarter of a 
pound of flour. 

Another. — One pound of sugar, nine eggs, the weight of four eggs of 
flour ; beat the yolks and white separate ; mix the sugar and eggs to- 
gether before you add the flour ; a little nutmeg. 

Another. — Five eggs, three tea cups of flour, two of sugar, and a little 
cinnamon. 

Pound Cake. — Three eggs, nine spoonfuls of butter, three of sugar 
and three hondsful of flour. 

Bath Bune. — Take a pound of flour, the rinds of three lemons grated 
fine, half a pound of butter melted in a cofiee-cup of cream, a tea-spoon- 
ful of yeast, and three eggs. Mix ; add half a pound of finely powder> 
ed white sugar : work well, let it stand to rise well, and it will make 
thirty-nine buns. 

Tea Cakes. — Take a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, and the 
same of sugar ; the peel of a lemon finely grated, a little of the juice, an 
egg, a little brandy to flavor, and a tea-spoonful of bruised coriander 
seed. Boll it out thin, make into cakes, and bake them in a quick 
oven. 

Short-Bread. — Rub one pound of butter, and twelve ounces of flnely 
powdered loaf sugar, into two pounds of flom*, with the hand ; make it 
into a stiff paste with four eggs, roll out to double the thiclmes£ of a 
penny piece, cut it into round or square cakes, pinch the edges, stick 
slices of candied peel and some carraway comfits on the tr p, and bake 
them on iron plates in a warm oven. 

Tei Cake. — One pound sugar, half pound butter, two tia-spoonfu. 
of pearlash, coffee cup of milk, mix stifi^ 

Composition Cake. — One pound of floui, one of sugar, half a pouiui 
of butter, seven eggs, half a pint of cream, and a gill of brandy. 



Ijtfl^NMp") 



lU 



UOMK COOK BOOK. 



■ 



Tea Cake, — ^Three cupt of iugar, three eggs, one cup of butler, one 
cap of milk, % amaU lump of pearlash, and make it not quite as Bti£f oi 
pound cake. 

LoafCako, — Fiye poundi of flour, two of sugar, three quarters of a 
pound of lard, and the aame quantity of butter, one pint of yeast, eight 
(.'ggfl, one quart of milk : roU the sugar in tba flower ; add the raisina 
and spice alter the first rising. 

Pint Cake. — One pint of dough, one tea-cup of sugar, one of butter, 
three eggs, one tea spoonful of pearlash, with raisins and spices. 

Soft Gingerbread.— Six tea cups of flour^ three of molasses, one of 
cream, one of butter, one table spoonful of gmger, and one of pearlash. 

^q/^«.— One pound of flour, quarter of a pound of butter, two ^gs 
beat, one gloss of wine, and a nutmeg. 

Jumblea.— Three pounds of flour, two of sugar, one of butter, eight 
eggs, with a little carraway seed } add a little miUc, if the eggs arc not 
sufficient. 

Sqft cakee in little pans, — One and a half poond of butter rubbed into 
two pounds of flour, add one wine glass of wine, one of rose water^ twc 
of yeast, nutmeg, cinnamon and currants. ^ 

Rice Cakes. — Boil a cupful of rice until it become a jelly ; while it 
Is warm, mix a lai^ lump of butter with it and a little salt Add as 
much milk to a small tea-cupful of flour as will make a tolerable stiff 
JMitter— stir it until it is quite smooth, and then mix it with the rice. 

Beat 6 eegs as light as possible, and add them to the rice. 

These ca^s are fried on a griddle as all other pancakes — they must 
be caiefully turned. 

Serve them with powdered sugar and nutmeg. They should be ser* 
ved as hot as possible, or they will become heavy — and a heavy pan- 
cake is a very poor afiair. 

Buck-wheat Cakes. — Take 1 quart of bnck-wheat meal, a hand- 
ful of Indian meal, and a tea-spoonful of salt; mix them with 

2 large spoonsful of yeast and sufficient cold water to make a 
thick batter ; beat it well ; put it in a warm place to rise, which will take 

3 or 4 hours or, if you mix it at night, let it stand where it is rather cool. 

When it is light, bake it on a griddle or in a pan. The griddle must 
be well buttered, and the cakes are better tc be small and thin. 

Waffles. — Take a quart of flour, and wet it with a little sweet milk ; 
then stir in enough miU to form a thick batter. Add a table-spoonful 
of melted butter, two eggs well-beaten, a tea-spoonful of salt, and yeast 
to raise it. When light, heat your waffle iron, by placing it on a bed 
of clear, bright coals ; grease it well, and fill it with the batter. T^o 
or three minutes will suffice to bake on one side * then turn the iron 
oTor ; and when brown on both sides, the cake is done. Butter the 



BOMK OOOK BOOK. 



Ill 



waffle* as soon m dcno, and serre with powdered white sugar and cin* 
namon ; or you may put on the sugnr and spice at the same time with 
the butter. 

Muffina, — Take 1 pint of new millc, 1 pint of liot water, 4 Itirojin o( 
augar, 1 egg, half a pint of good briak veasi, and flour enough to inalco 
tlie mixturo ^uite as thick as pound-cake. Let it rise well } bake lu 
hoops on a gnddle. 

Indian Griddle Cahet.—X quart of milk, 6 eggs, tea-spoonful of saler* 
atus, some nuviueg, tea-spoonful of salt, stir meal in until you have a tliiclc 
Itatter, fry in melted butter and lard. 

Dough Nut».—4i and a half pounds of flour, ] quart of milk, thre^ 
quarter lbs. of butter, same of sugar, one cup oi' yeast, a little salt and 
spice to taste, fry in not lard. 

CruUera. — 2 lbs. flour, one half lb. of butter, 1 l Jf lb. of sugar, 6 eggn 
and spict to taste cook same as douglx, miti. 




ue 



HOME OOOK BOOK. 






FKTJIT CAKES, &o. 



In making Cake, accuracy in proportioning the ingredients is indis* 
pcnsable. It is equally indispensable for the success of the cake that it 
should be placed in a heated oven as soon as prepared. It is useless to 
attempt to make light cake unless the eggs are perfectly fresh, and the 
batter good. Neither eggs nor butter and sugar should be beaten in 
tin, as its coldness prevents their becoming light. To ascertain if a 
large cake is perfectly done, a broad bladed knife shonld be plunged in- 
to >he centre of it ; if dry and clean when dravra out, the cake is bak- 
ed. For a smaller cake, insert a straw or the wisp of a bro'>m j if it 
comes out in the least moist the cake should be left in the 
oven. 

Great attention should be paid to the different degrees of the heat 
of the oven for baking cakes : it should be, at first, of a sound heat, 
when, after it has been well cleaned out, such articles may be baked as 
retjuire a hot oven ; then, such as are directed to be baked in a mod- 
erately^ heated oven ; and lastly, those in a slack or cooling oven. With 
a little care, the above degrees of heat may soon be known. 

Fro&ling for Cake. — For the white of one egg, 9 heaping tea-spoons 
of white i-eiined sugar, 1, Poland starch. Beat the eggs to a stiff froth 
so that you can turn the plate upside down without the eggs falling off, 
stir in the sugar slowly with a wooden spoon, 10 or 15 minutes con- 
stantly i to frost a common-fiized cake 1 egg and a half. 

Plum Cake or Wedding Cake. — One pound of dry flour, one pound 
of sweet butter, one pound of sugar, twelve eggs, two pounds of rais- 
ins, (the sultana raisins are the best,) two pounds of currants. As 
much spice as you please. A glass of wine, one of brandy, and a pound 
of citron. Mix the butter and sugar as for pound-cake. Sift the spice, 
and beat the eggs very light. Put in the fruit last, stirring it in grad- 
ually. It should be well floured. If necessary, add more flour after 
the fruit is in. Butter sheets of paper, and line the inside of one large 
ptm, or two smaller ones. Lay in some slices of citron, then a layer of 
the mixture, then of the citron, and so on till the pan is full. This 
ciiko requires a tolerably hot and steady oven, and will /x;ed baking 4 
or 5 hours, according to its thickness. It will be better to let it cogJ 
irmdually la the oven. Ice it when thoroughly cold. 



UOME COOK BOOK. 



11* 



Brides Cakc—Z pounds cf raisins, 2 of currants, 12 eggs, 1 poimd 
it flour, 1 pound of «ugar, 1 wine glass of brandy, 2 nutmegs, 1 tabl&« 
spoonful of cinnamon, a half one of cloves, 1 of allspice, citron, mace, 
Ana bake in a quick oven, it will require 3 hours ; this cuke must Im 
covered with icing. 

Fruit Cake. — 1 pound of flour, 1 of sugar, three-quarters of butter 
2 of raisins, 2 of currants, 1 of citron, a half an ounce of mace, and a 
wine-glass of brandy, 1 of wine, 8 eggs, stir the sugar and butter to a 
cream, add the flour gpradually, then the wine, brandy, and spice, add 
the fruit just before it is put in the pans j it takes over two hours if the 
loaves are thick. 

Sponge Cake. — 7 eggs, twelve oimces of sugar, six of flour, a littla 
rose water, a spoonful of pearl ash. 

Superior Sponge Cake. — Take the weight of ten eggs in powdered 
loaf sugar, beat it to a froth with the yolks of twelve eggs, put in the 
grated rind of a fresh lemon, leaving out the white part — add half tho 
juice. Beat the whites of twelve eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them 
with the sugar and butter. Stir the whole without any cessation for 
Biteen minutes, then stir in gradually the weight of six eggs in sifted 
flour. As soon as the flour is well mixed in, turn the cakes into pans 
lined with buttered paper — bake it immediately in a quick, but not a 
furiously hot oven. It will bake in the course of twenty minutes* If 
It bakes too fast, cover it with thick |fttper. 

Cream Cake. — Four cups of flour, three of sugar, one of butter, ont> 
of cream, Ave eggs, 1 table-spoonful of pearlash, mix the butter and 
sugar together first, then add the rest. 

Queen CaJce. — Mir 1 pound of dried flour, the same of sifted sugar 
and of washed currants. Wash 1 lb. of butter in rose-water, beat it 
well, then mix with it 8 eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, and 
put in the drying ingredients by degrees j beat the whole an hour j but- 
ter little tins, tea-cups, or saucers, iilhng them only half full. Sift a 
little fine sugar over just as you put them into t^ie oven. 

Cocoanut Cakes — Take equal weights of grated cocoanut and pow- 
dered white sugar, [the brown part of the cocoanut should be cut olf 
before grating it] — ^add the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, in tlio 
proportion of half a dozen to a pound each of cocoanut and sugar. 
There should be just eggs enough to wet up the whole stiff. Drop tho 
mixture, on to buttered plates, several inches apart. Bake them iiume* 
diately in a moderately warm oven. 

Soft Ginger Cake. — One tea-cup of butter, one of milk, three of m»* 
lasses, 4 eggs, 5 cups of flour, and one tea-spoon of pearlash. Make n 
to a stiff paste add bake iu a slow oveu. 



'; 



118 



HOME OOOK BOOK. 



l! 



i 



j : 



A Plain Cake, — Mix together three-quarters of a pound of flour, itm 
same of moist sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, one egg well beat- 
en and two table-spoonsful of milk ; bake moderately. 

Cookies— To three cups of sugar put one of butter, one of milk, threp 
e^s, a tea-spoonful of saleratus dissolved in the milk, and carrawa} 
seeds, if you like, or other spice. 

Cup Cake. — 2 cups of sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 small cup milk, 3 eggs 
4 cups flour, spice to taste. 

Pirii Cake — One pint of dough, one tea-cup of sua^ar, one of butter, 
three eggs, a tea-spoonful of pearlash, with raisins and spice to taste. 

Macaroons, — Pound well in a mortar with the white of an egg half 
a pound of sweet almonds blanched, with a few bitter ones also blanch- 
ed. Beat to a froth the whites of four eggs, and mix with them 2 lbs. 
of sugar. Mix all together, and drop them on paper placed on a tin. 
A half an hour in a gentle oven bak(*s them. 

Tea Cake. — Three cups of sugar, three eggs, one cup of butter, one 
of milk, a small lump of pearlash ; mix not quite as stiif as pound caka 

Loaf Cake. — Five pounds of flour, two of sngar, one and a half of 
butter, eiciht eggs, ore quart of milk, roll the sugar with the flower, 
vdd yeast sutlicient to make it rifie, and then add the raisins and spice 

Ginger Cake. — Two and a h'llf pounds flour, 1 of butter, 1 of sugar, foui 
egffs, one pint of molasses, tea-spoonful and a half of pearlash, one 
half pint of milk, two ounces of ginger, two pounds of currants, half h 
pound of raisins, and a few cloves. 

Buns. — Take one pound of flour, two ounces of butter, three of sugar, 
yeast to raise it, a little cinnamon or nutmeg, and milk enough to mould 
into biscuits. When light, bake to a line, delicate brown. 

Pounded Gnl'e. — Mix a pound of sngar with three quarters of a pound 
of bntter. Wlicn worked wliite, stir in tlie .yolk of eight eggs, beaten 
to a iruth, then the whites. Add a pound of sil'tcd Hour, nnd mace or 
nutmeg to the taste. 11" you wish to have your cako i)articnl;irly nice, 
stir in., jast before you put it into the pans, a quarter of a pound of cit- 
ron, or almonds blanched, and powdered fine in rose-water. 

Ginger Snaps. — Take two tea-cups of molasses, one of butter, and 
one of sugar. Boil tlie butter and sugar to:?ether. Add a table-spoon- 
ful of black pepper, two of ginger, a tea-spoonful of saleratus, and flour 
to roll out. Roll them thin ; cut in shapes, and bake quick. These are 
very nice; and the longer they are kept the better they will be. 



i * 



HOME COOK BOOK. 



119 



Sponge Ginger Bread. — Two pounds of flour, one of sugar, one of 
butter, six eggs, one pint of molasses, one pint of milk, two table-spoon- 
fuls of ginger, one of cinnamon, one of cloves, two table-spoonfuls of 
pearlash. 

Sponge Cake. — Ten ounces of flour, ten eggs, one pcrand of sugar. 

Jumbles. — Stir together, till of a light color, a pound of sugar and 

' ^If the weight of butter — then add eight eggs, beaten to a froth, es- 

ce of lemon, or rose-water, to the taste, and flour to ma'>e them 

[ficiently stiff to roll out. Roll them out in powdered sugar, about 

.alf an inch thick, cut it into strips about half an inch wide, and fonr 

mches long, join the ends together, so as to form rings, lay them on flat 

tins that have been buttered, and bake them in a quick oven. 

Cheap DoughrNnts. — Take two quarts of sifted flour, one cup of su- 
gar, two tea-spoonfuls of cream of tartar, one of soda, one of salt, two 
cups of sweet milk, and flavor with cinnamon or nutmeg. 

Plain Plum Cake. — Beat six ounces of butter to a cream, to whish 
;»dd six well-beaten eggs j work in one pound of flour, and half a pound 
of sifted loaf sugar, half a pound of currants, and two ounces of candied 
peels ; mix well together, put it into a buttered tia, and bake it in a 
quick oven. 

Seed Cake. — Mix quarter of peck of flour with half pound of sugar, 
quarter of an ounce of allspice, and a little ginger ; melt three-quarters 
of a pound of butter with half pint of milk ; when just warm, put to 
it quarter of a pint of yeast, and work up to a good dough. Let it 
stand before the fire a few minutes before it goes to the oven ; add 
seeds or currants ; bake one hour and a half. 

Sugar Cake. — One pound and a half of sugar, one pound of butter, 
tw. cups of milk, two tea-spoonfuls of pearlash, three pounds of flour. 

Another.— One cup of butter, half a cup oi'milk, one tea-spoonful ol 
pearlash, seven eggs, six cups of flour, two cups sugar. 

Composition Cake. — One cup of milk, one of butter, three of sugar, 
four of flour, and five eggs. 

Washington Cake. — Beat six eggs very light, add one pound of but- 
ter, one of sugar, and one pint of rich milk a little sour, a glass of wine. 
B ground nutmeg, a spoonful of saleratus, bake in tins or small pans in 
a briek oven. 

Fruit Ginger Bread. — Four cups of flour, 1 of butter, 1 of sugar, 1 of rao- 
^Li^es, one of milk, four eggs, three tea-6|)oonfuls of ginger 1 of doveil 



120 



HOMB COOK BOOK. 



and nutmeg, balf ponnd of currants, and raisins, add the flrait l^t, in 
an oven not very quick. 

Queen Cake. — One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, one of but- 
ter, one wine glass of brandjr, one nutmeg, add rose water, if you 
pleaoe, eight eggs. 

, Vanity Cake, — ^Three eggs, one cup of sugar, two tea-spoonfuls of 
cream of tartar, one tea-spoonful of saleratus, two of cream, one atid 
a half cups of flour. 

Drop Cake. — ^Miz half a pint of thick cream, ha'.f a pint of milk, 
three eggs, flour enough to render stilf enough to drop on bnttered 
tins several inches apart — ^baki in a quick oyen. 



i: \ 



w 



\\ 



' I 



UOMB (X)OK BOOK. 



121 



COFFEE, TEA, CHOCOLATE, AND COCOA. 



■:.U-->^ 



Coffee and tea have now bctiomo such universal beverage a for lbs 
morning or after dinner meal, that beyond a few general directions lit 
tie remains for prefaratory matter. 

Coffee should be purchased in the berry, and fresh roasted, it should 
always, when possible, be ground just previous to being made. After 
it is ground it should not be exposed to the air, as the aroma speedily 
flies off. If more is ground than required for the meal, keep it in a 
glass closely-stopped bottle. Coffee, like tea, should be an infusion 
not a decoction. 

The best coffee is the Mocha, the next is the Java, and closely ap 
proximating is the Jamaica and Berbice,. 

Of tea little need be said ; almost every one knows the rules for mak 
log it. 

Boiling water should alone be used. 

Metal tea pots in preference to earthenware. 

Silver in better than either. 

A spoonful of tea for each person. Heat the tea-pot first with some 
boiling water, then pour that into the tea-cups to warm them ; put in 
your tea, and pour enough water on to the tea to cover it ; let it stand 
three or four minutes, then nearly fill the tea-pot with water, let it 
•tand a few minutes, and pour out, leaving some portion of tea in the 
pot when you replenish, that all the strength may not be poured away 
m the first cup. 

Chocolate can only be obtained pure of a first-rate house ; that com- 
monly sold is most infamously adulterated ; the best Spanish or Italian 
chocolate should be purchased ; the Florence has a high reputation. 

Cocoa is the foundation of chocolate, it may be pounded, and either 
boiled as milk, or boiling watet may be poured upon it. It is very di- 
gestible, and of a fattening nature. 

Coffee^ to "Roast. — Coffee should never be roasted but when you are 
going to use it, and then it should be watched with the greatest care, 
and made of a gold color ; mind and do not bum it, for a few grains 
burnt would communicate a bitter taste to the whole ; it is the best 
way to roast it in a roaster over a charcoal fire, which turns with the 
hand, as by that means it will not be forgotten, which is very often 
the case when on a spit before the fire. 

Coffee — to Make with Hot Water, — Instead of pouring cold water 
opon the coffee, boilii^ must be used, taking care the froth does not 
run over, which is to be prevented by pouring the water on the coffee 
jy degrees. ' 

Coffee — to Make with Cold Water.— Vnon two ounces of coffee pour 
oeven cups of cold water, then boil it until the coffee falls to the bot> 



122 



HOME COOK BOOK. 



torn, when the froth has disappeared, and it is clear at the top U , 
boiling water, it must be taken off the fire and be allowed to stan . 
but as it often requires clearing a little cold water should be poured ia 
it the instant it is taken off the fire from boiling. A quicker way of 
clearing it is by putting in a small piece of isinglass ; when it has stood 
a sufiicient time to settle, pour it off into another coffee-pot and it is 
fit to use, ■,, ..iv, ,.. ...... -.-,..■. ..--,.-,, ,■ . ■ ■■■ . ■ 

Coffee Milk, — Boil a dessert-spoonful of coffee in nearly a pint of mi lie 
a quarter of an hour, then put in a little isinglass and clear it, and let 
it boil a few minutes, and set it on the fire to grow fine. 

C%oco/a/e.— According as you intend to make this, either with millc 
or water, put a cup of one or the other of these Uquids into a chocolate 
pot, with one ounce of ca!;e criocolatej some persons dissolve the 
chocolate before they put it into milk ; as soon as the milk or water 
begins to boil mill it ; when the chocolate is dissolved and begins to 
bubble take it off the fire, letting it stand near it for a quarter of an 
dour, then mill it p^jain to make it frothy ; afterwards serve it out in 
cups. 

The chocolate should not be milled unless it it prepared with cream ; 
<:h('Colate in cake sliould always be made use of in ices and dragees. 

Cocoa. — To two ounces of good cocoa, allow one quart of water ; put 
^ in a covered saucepan ; and when it comes to a boil remove it to a 
place where it will just simmer for the space of an hour. Strain off; and 
returning i* to the saucepan, let it boil up, with the right proportion of 
milk. Cocoa-shells may be prepared in the same way only that they 
should be soaked several hours before being put to the fire, and boiled 
two hours. Most people do not strain either cocoa, or shells. 

Tea. — Tastes differ regarding the flavor of various sorts of tea: some 
preferring all black ; others, all green ; and many, a mixture of both in 
different quantities ; though most persons — when not fearful of their 
nerves— agree that fine Hyson is the best. A good mixture, in point 
of flavor, we know to be two fifths black-two fifths green, and one-fifth 
gunpowder: all being, of course, superior quality. 

Substitute for Crfam in Coffee or Tea. — The white of an egg beaten 
to a froth, mixed with a lump of butter big as a hazel-nut. P^ir on 
the coffee gradually, so it will not curdle } and you can hardly aistin* 
guish the preparation from fresh cream. 



THE END. 



; = / t- ."^ ■ 



INDEX. 



' PAGB 

A-La-Modb Beef 56 

Applk DrMPUMGS, to make 98 

Apple Jellt 104 

Applb PiB 94 

Apple Pudding 96 

Apple Saitce 80 

Apples, choice of 24 

Apricot Pie 95 

Apeicot Pudding 97 

Apricots, to preserve 105 

Asparagus, boiled 84 

Bacon, how to choose 22 

Bacon and Beans, boiled 63 

Baking Bread, Directions for (see 

£read) 108-115 

Balls, Egg 41 

Balls, Force-Meat 41 

Balls, Potato 82 

Bass, baked 48, 49 

Bath Buns 113 

Batter, for Fish, &c 24 

Batter Pudding 97 

Beans, boiled 85 

Beans, French or Scarlet, to cook ... 85 

Beans and Bacon, boiled 68 

Beep, a Pickle for 70, 71 

Beep Broth 40 

Beef, choice of 22 

Berf, Directions for Carving Joints of, 

(see Carving) 27, 28 

Bekf, Directions for Cooking 55-53 

Beef A-La-Mode 53 

Bouilli, to make 57 

— — stewed 57 

to hash 57 

Beef-steak Pie 58 

Dripping, how to prepare for future 

use 56 

Heart, roasted 56 

Kidneys, stewed 66 



PAOB 

Beef, Directions for Cooking (continued). 

Minced Beef 6T 

Hump, roasted 55 

Steaks,fried bl 

broiled 67 

Tongues, to dress 53 

Tripe, how to cook 63 

soused 63 

Beef Soup 89 

Beets, to pickle 89-91 

Beets, to prepare 84 

Blackberry Pie 105 

Black-Fish, baked 49 

Black-Fish, foiled 49 

Blano Mange, Mould for 19 

Blanc Mange, to make 102 

Blanc Mange, kiCE 102 

Brandt Peaches 107 

Brandt Plums 107 

Bread, i&c. (see Cakes) 108-1 15 

Bakings, Large, Directions for. 109, 110 

Bread, Diet 113 

Directions for Making 103 

Family, how to make 109 

Larje Bakings of. Directions 

for 109,110 

Milk 112 

Potato, very light 112 

Cake, a light, to bake in cnps 118 

Cakes, soft, in little pans. 114 

Cum Bread, to make 112 

Diet Bread 113 

Griddle-Cakes, In-lian 115 

Johnny-Cakc, Indian 112 

Muffins 115 

Pancakes, to make 112 

Busk, Corn-Meal 112 

to make 112 

Short-Bread 113 

Bread Pudding, elegant 96 

Bread Pudding, plain 96 



124 



INDEX. 



PAOB 

Bbbad SAroK 79 

BhEAD AMD BCTTBR PCDDINO 97 

Bridbs'Gakb, to make 117 

Broth, Bref 40 

BsoTii, cheap 89 

Broth, made in an hoar 89 

Broth, Mutton 89 

Bboth, Vbal 89 

Brown Gravy 77 

Brown Soup 88 

Buckwheat Cakes 114 

BUN8 118 

Buns, Bath 118 

BuTTBft, how to test 28 

Buttbb, to clarify 89 

BuTTBB, to preserve for Winter 89 

BuTTBB, Melted 78, 79 

Cabbaoks, boiled 83 

Cabba'^bb, stewed 88 

Cabbaqes, Bed, pickled 83, 90 

Cakbs, &c., Directions for Making (see 

£read) 116-120 

BatbBuns lis 

Brides' Cake 117 

Buckwheat Cakes 114 

Buns 118 

Cake, Plain 118 

Cocoa-Nut Cake 117 

Composition Cake 118, 119 

Cookies 118 

Cream Cake 117 

Crullers 116 

Cup Cake 118 

Dongh-Nuts 116, 119 

Drop Cake 120 

Frosting for Cake 116 

Fruit Cake 117 

Fritters 113 

Ginger Bread 119, 120 

Ginger Bread, Soft 114 

Bread, Sponge 119 

Cake 118 

-Cake, soft 117 

Snaps 118 

Jumbles 114, 119 

Loaf Cakes 114, 118 

Macaroons US 

Pint Cake 114, 1 18 

Plum Cake 116 

Cake, plain . 119 

Pound Cake 113 



PAQI 

Cakbs, Directions for Making (continued). 

Pounded Cake 113 

Queen Cake 117,120 

Bice Cakes 114 

Seed Cake » 119 

Snaps, Ginger 113 

Sponge Cakes 118, 117, 119 

GingerBrcad 119 

Sugar Cake 119 

Tea Cakes 108,118,114,118 

Vanity Cake 120 

Wafers 114 

Waffles 114,115 

Washington Cake 119 

Wedding Cake 116 

Wonders 118 

Cakbs, Codfish 45 

Cakes, Liobt 113 

Calf's Hbab, boiled 69, 60 

Calf's Head, boiled, to carve 82 

Calf's Head Soup (plain) 40 

Calf's Heabt, roasted 61 

Calf's Livbb, roasted , 61 

Calves' Brains, to c jok 63 

Calves' Feet, to coot 60 

Calves' Foot Jelly, to make 102 

Calves' Tongues, to cook 61 

Candied Fruits 108 

Carp, fried 62 

Gabbots, boiled 84 

Oabvino, Directions for 26-82 

Beef, Aitch-bone of 27 

Brisket of 28 

Buttock of 28 

Edgeof 27 

Eibsof 28 

Bound of 28 

Sirloinof 28 

Calf s Head (half a), boiled 82 

Cod's Head and Shoulders 26 

Ducks 86 

Eels 27 

Fish 28 

Fowls 84, 85 

Game 33-37 

Geese 83 

Ham 82 

Lamb, Fore Quarter of 29 

Leg of 80 

Lolnof 80 

Shoulderof 80 

Mackerel 26 



IXDBZ. 



126 



TAQU 

OARTura, Dlreetlons for (oontinued). 

Mutton, Chine of 29 

daanchof 89 

Legof 29 

Loin of 29 

Soddleof 29 

Shoulder of 29 

Partridges 86 

Pig,Roa8ted 81 

' Pigeons 86 

Plovers 8T 

Pork, Handof 81 

Legof 81 

Loinof 81 

SpareRibof 81 

Poultry 83-87 

Eabblts 87 

Salmon 27 

> Snipe 87 

Tongue 82 

Turkeys 84 

Teal, Breast of 80 

Fillet of 80 

Knuckleof 80 

Yjnlsuu, Haunch of 80 

Woodcocks 87 

Oartino, Obser-'atlons on 88 

Gakvinq-Knife, for Game 83 

Catspp (see Ketchup) 90-92 

Cacliflowkb Soup 42 

Gauliflow-ebs, boiled 24 

Cacliflowbrb, to dross 88 

Gelebt, how to curl 24 

Gelebt Sauce 80 

GnARLOTTB RussB, a 108 

Cheese 89 

Cheese Fritters 89 

toasted 89 

Scotch Enbbit 89 

Welch Rabbit 89 

Chebbt Jam 105 

CniOKEN Cureie , 75 

Chicken Fricassee 74-76 

Chiokex Pir 75 

Chicken Soup 43 

Chickens, roasted 74 

Chooslatx, to make 121, 122 

Choice of Articles of Diet, on the. 22, 23 

Chops, Lamb, fHed C5 

Chops, Mutton, to cook 64 

Chowdijb, Fish, to make 52 

Clah FcrrrsBS 54 



OlamPo 69 

Clam Soup 42,48 

Clams, boiled 54 

Clams, roasted 04 

Clams, H ard-^hell, fried M 

Clams, SovT-SuKLL, boiled 54 

CoooA 121 

How to make 129 

CoooA-NuT Cake IIT 

GoooA-NuT Pie 90 

God, fresh, boiled 44 

Cod, salt, boiled 44 

Cod, Sauce 80 

God's Head and Suouldebs, to carve. . 26 

How to cook 44 

Cod- Fisn, baked 40 

CoD-FiSH, fried 45 

CoD-Fieii, stewed 40 

Coo-FiSH Cakes 40 

Coffee 121 

Directions for Making 121 

CoflfeeMllk 122 

Substitute for Cream in 122 

To make with cold water 121, 122 

To make with hot water 121 

To roast 121 

CoLDSLAw, to prepare 86 

GooKERT, Remarks on. 5-7 

Cookies 113 

CooKiNO Meats, Directions for (see 
Beef^ Lamb, Mutton^ Pork, Veal, 

Venison) 50 

Cooks, Hints to 28-20 

Corn Bread, to make 112 

CoRNMKAL Rusk 112 

Grab, Minced 58 

Crab Pie, to make 53 

Crabs, boiled 52 

Granbebbt Sauce..'. 80, 81 

Cream, substitute for 122 

Cream Cake 117 

Creams, Ices, &c 101-103 

Blanc Mango 102 

Cilves' Foot Jelly 103 

Churlotte Russe, a 103 

Currant Cream 101 

Ice Cream, Pine Apple 101 

Strawberry 101 

Ice Creams , 101 

Lemon Cream 101, 102 

Marmalade 108 

Orange Cream .,.,. >....v.... 103 



126 



iin>BX. 



PAOl 

OiaAMs, Iocs, tto. (fionUnu4d). 

Knapbcrry Creatu 101 

Bioe Blnno Mango 102 

Jelly.... 103 

Strawberry Croam 101 

Crullbbs, to make llfi 

Ckust, Dbippino, to inaku 98 

Okust fob Mbat Pies 08, 94 

CuoirHDXRS, to dress. 87 

OuoriiBBBS, to pickle 89, 00 

OvLLiB Gbavt, to make 77 

OitpCakk <. 118 

Cubing Mbats, Directions for 70-72 

Beef, a Picklo for 70, 71 

Hams, a Picklo for. 70, 71 

Method of curing 71 

■ Another that gives a high 

flavor 71 

— — — Another, giving a still higher 

flavor 71,72 

Hog*s Lard, to preserve 72 

Mutton Ham, to cure ; 72 

Pickle for Hams, Tongues, Sec, how 
to make 70, 71 

OVBBANT CbEAM 101 

OUBBANT PiB 94 

C(7Bbant Puddino 97 

CirBBAMT Jelly, Black 104 

OtTBBANT JkLLY, Itud. 104 

Cdstabd Pib 96 

CusTABD Pudding 06 

GCSTABDS 100 

Baked 100 

Boiled 100 

Lemon 100 

Rice 100 

GuTLBTS, Yxal, to cook 60,61 

DiBT Bbead ' 118 

DiBT^ Choice of Articlear of (see Mar- 
keting) 22, 23 

Douou-NUTS 116 

Dbippino, to prepare for future use .... 66 

Dbipping Crust, to make 98 

Drop Cake.... 120 

DuoKB, roasted 74 

Ducks (Sea), potted 74 

Ducks, stewed, with Green Peas 74 

Ducks, to Carve 86 

Duhplikos, Apple 98 

DuHPUNOS, Damson 98 

DUHFUNOB ElOB i 98 



rAOi 

dumpumqs, bvbt 9& 

ExlSauob 80 

Eel Soup 48 

£XL8. boiled 61 

Ebls, broiled 61 

Ebls, A-ied 61 

Ebls, to Carve 27 

Eoo Balls 41 

Eoo Sauob 79 

Eoo-Plant, to cook 8S 

EooB, boiled 87 

Eaas, buttered 88 

Eoos, poached 87, 88 

Eotis, to ascertain when fVesh 28, 87 

Family Soup 40 

Fish, Batter for 24 

Fisii, Directions for Buying 28 

Fish, Directions for Carving 26, 17 

FiBn, Directions for Cooking 44-46 

Bass, baked 48 

Black-Fish, baked.... 49 

Boiled 49 

Corp, fHed 62 

Chowder 63 

Clom Fritters 64 

Pie 66 

Clams, boiled 64 

roasted 64 

Ilard-Shell, fried 64 

Soft-Shell, boiled 64 

Cod, fresh, boiled 44 

salt, boiled 44 

Cod^s Head and Shoulders 44 

Cod-Fish, baked 4» 

fried 45 

stewed 45 

Cakes 45 

Crab, Minced 68 

Pio, to wake 68 

Crabs, boiled 52 

Eels, boiled 61 

broiled 61 

fried 61 

Flounders, fried 62 

Haddock, baked .•. 60 

broiled 66 

dried 60 

Halibut boiled 60 

stewed 60 

Lobster Salad 62,68 



umrnx. 



127 



TXOM 

• - • • • t Vq 

80 

48 

61 

61 

61 

27 

41 

79 

86 

87 

88 

• • • • oTf oQ 

.... 28,87 

40 

24 

28 

.... 26,17 

• • • • ^TM^^Xt 

48 

49 

49 

62 

62 

.. 64 

.. 66 

.. 64 

.. 64 

.. 64 

.. 64 

.. 44 

.. 44 

.. 44 

.. 49 

.. 45 

.. 45 

.. 45 

.. 63 

.. 63 

.. 62 

.. 51 

.. 61 

., 61 

.. 62 

.». 50 

.. 60 

.. 60 

.. 60 

.. 60 
.. 62,58 



PAOa 
Fish, Directions fcr Cooklnf (eoiMnued). 
Lobsters, boiled, to be e«ten cold . . 62 

Mackerel, baked 47 

boiled 47 

broiled 47 

with Brown Butter 47 

Minnows 62 

Oyster Patties 58,64 

Pie 54 

Oysters, broiled 53 

Wed 58 

pickled 64 

stewed 68 

Perch, boiled 61 

fWed 62 

Pike, baked ... 51 

Bock-Fisb, baked 48 

another way 49 

boiled 49 

soused '. 49 

stewed 49 

Salmon, baked 46 

boiled 45 

broiled 46 

dried 46 

pickled 46 

potted 46, 47 

roasted 46 

Bea-Bass, baked 48 

another woy 49 

boiled 49 

Shad, baked 48,49 

broiled 48 

fried 48 

pickled 48 

to keep fresh without corn- 
ing 49 

Bhell-Flsh 62-65 

Small Fish 52 

Smelts 52 

Sturgeon, fresh, to dress 50 

roasted 60 

Sun-Fish 62 

Trout, baked 51 

boiled 51 

fried •.... 52 

to dress .-, 51 

Whitings, boiled 50 

FiSQ Gravt, to make 73 

Flounders, fried 52 

Fobob-Meat Balls 41 

rowLjboUed 84,85,75 



PAoa 

Fowl, broiled 75 

Fowl, cold, to dress 70 

Fowl, Gravy for, without Meat 78 

Fowl, roasted « 86 

Fowi^ sauce for 79 

Fowls, to carve 84, 30 

Frrnch Beans, to cook 80 

Fritters 99 

Fritters, Apple 99 

Fritters, Batter for 24 

Fritters, Clam 64 

Fritters, Directions for Making 9} 

Fritters, Fritit 118 

Fritters, Omklettb 8S 

Fritters, Oyster 99 

Fpittbrs, Potato 99 

Frostino for Cakes 116 

Fbuit, to preserve 108-103 

Apricots, to preserve 100 

Fruit, to preserve without Sugar.107, 108 

Fruits, Candied 108 

Oreon-Oages, to preserve 106 

Nectarines, to preserve 100 

Peaches, Brandy 107 

to preserve 100 

Pine Apples, to preserve 106 

Plums, Brandy 107 

to preserve 100 

Pumpkins, to preserve 107 

Preserving, General Directions for. 108 

Quinces, to preserve 106 

Baepberries, to preserve whole .... 106 
Strawberries, to preserve whole . . . 106 
Sugar, to preserve fruit without . . . 107 

Tomatoes, to preserve 108 

Feuit Cakes (see Cakes) 117 

Fbcit Fritters 118 

Fruit, Gin»er-Brbai> 110, 120 

Fruit Pies, Puflf Paste for 98 

Game, Directions for Cooking and Carv- 
ing (see Pmiltry) 83-87 

Ducks 86 

Partridge 86 

Plover 87 

Babbit 87 

Snipe 87 

Wiid-fowls 38,86 

Woodcocks ^7 

Game, Spoiled, to restore *4 

Ginoeb, Bread, Fruit 119, 120 

Qinoeh-Bbbad, Sqit 114 



128 



INDEX. 



r 

t 



t 



VAoa 

OivoBB'BuAD, Bpoiroa 119 

OiNon-CAKB 117,118 

GiNOBR Snaph 118 

GoosK, ruMted 78 

Goose, 8t«we<l 78 

GoosK, to carvo a 88 

GoosKBBBKT Fool 106 

GOOSBBBBBT PiB 94 

Gravibs, how to make 77, 78 

Brown Gravy 77 

ClearGravy 77 

CuIHa Gravy 77 

Fiah Gravy, strong 78 

Fowls, Gravy for, without Meat ... 78 

Gravy that will keep a Week 77 

Veal Gravy 78 

QbavtSoup 88, 89 

Orbbm Gaoes, to preserve 106 

Green-Goosb Pie 78 

Grebn Peas, to cook 85 

Gbbbx Veoetables, to boil 81 

Griddlb Cakes, Indian IIS 

Hadpocr, baked CO 

Haodook, brMlIod 60 

Haddock, dried 60 

Haubut, boiled 60 

Halibut, stewed 60 

Ham, broiled 68 

Ham, how to carve 82 

Hah, how to choose 22 

Ham, to boll a 68 

Hams, Methods of Curing 71, 72 

Hams, Mutton, to dress 68 



Head Cheese, to make 

Heart, Beef, to cook 

Hb\rt, Calf's, to cook 

Herbs, Bweet, Directions about . . 
IIoo's Lard, to preserve 



70 
66 
61 
28 

72 



loE Creams, (see Creams) 101, 102 

loiNo FOR Tarts 96 

Indian Dumpunob, plain 93 

Indian Johnnt Cake 112 

Indian ProDiNa, baked 98 

Irish Stew, to make 64 

Isinglass, to clarify 103 

Jam, Cherry 105 

Jam, Gooseberry 105 

Jam, Babpberry 105 

JaM|Bhubabb...., ^.....•. 104 



JiLLin, Ao. (ie« FrviUt) 108, 109 

Apple Jelly 104 

Blackberry Pie 106 

Calves' Foot Jelly 108 

Cherry Jam 105 

Currant Jelly, Black 104 

Red 104 

Gooseberry Fool 106 

Jam 106 

Isinglass, toolarlfjr 108 

Quince Jelly ).04 

Baspberry Jam 106 

Jelly 104 

Bhubarb Jam 104 

Rice Jelly 102 

Sweetmeats, to clarify Sn^ar for . .. 106 

JbLLT of Pio'B FbET and £ tB8 70 

Johnny Cakb Indian 112 

Joints of Meat, Directions for Garv* 

Ing 27-82 

Jumbles 114,119 

Ketouup 90-98 

Mushroom 91 

Tomato 91 

Walnut 91, 92 

Kidneys, Bebtbs', stewed 56 

Kidneys, Shbep'b, broiled 64 

Kitchen Utensils 7-81 

Lamb, choice of 28 

Lamb, Directions for Carving (see 

Carving) 29, 80 

Lamb, Directions for Cooking. 65 

Dish, a very nice. 65 

Leg, boiled 65 

Boasting, Method oC 65 

Chops, fried 65 

Shoulder of Lamb (savory), roasted 65 

Lard, IIoo's, to preserve 72 

Lemon Cream 101, 102 

Lemon Pudding 96 

Loaf Cake, to make 114,118 

Lobster Salad 52, 58 

LoBBTRK Sauce 79 

Lobsters, boiled ; . . . 62 

Lobsters, to tell when fresh 28 

Macaroons 118 

Mackerel, baked 47 

Mackerel, boiled 47 

Maokxul, broiled. «...« **».%. *^ 



IITDBX. 



iat> 



PASS 

If AOBMaL, to flwre M 

Maokiul, with Brown Buttei 47 

IfASKmifO, D' motions about 98, 88 

BMon, choice of 89 

Beet, choice oi 89 

Batter, how to test 98 

Bggt, how to tell when fresh 98 

Fish, Dlreotiont for Baying 98 

Hftin, choice ot. 99 

Lamb, choice of .... 99 

Lobsters, how to tell when A-ush. . . 93 

Pork, choice of 99 

Poultry, selection of. 98 

Veal, choice of 89 

Yenison, choice of 99 

Masmaladi, to make liM 

Mbat-Piks, Crust for 98, 94 

MiATS, Method' of Cooking (see Be^, 
Lamb, Mutton, Port, Veal, Veni- 

ton) 65 

Mbltbd BirrniR 78, 70 

Milk Bread 119 

MiMOB PlKS 04 

MiNOBD BBBr 57 

MiNOBD Cbab 58 

MiNOBD Vbau 60 

Minnows, to cook 69 

Mint Bauob 76 

MooK Tubtlb Soup 40, 41 

Muffins, to make 115 

MuaiiROOM Kbtciiup 91 

MusHROOHS, pickled 91 

Mushrooms, to dress 85 

Mutton Broth 89 

Mutton, Directions for Carving (see 

Carving) 90 

Mutton, Directions for Cooking 09-64 

Breast, stewed... 68 

Chops, broiled 64 

fHed 64 

Irish Stew 64 

Kidneys, broiled 64 

Leg, boiled 68 

roasted. 69 

Loin, stewed 68 

Mutton, hashed 68 

Hams, to dress. 68 

Neck of Mutton 69, 68 

Saddle of Mutton 69 

Bheep*8 Head, boiled 68, 64 

Shoulder, roasted. 69 

Sonp 18 



PAOB 

NASTUBTims, plcklML 91 

Nbotarimeh, to presenre 106 

Olivbs, Vbal n 

Ohblbttbs. 88 

Omelette Fritters. 88 

Onion Omelette 88 

Onion Saucr 78 

Onions, pickled 00 

Onions, to cook 84 

Oranor Crbam 108 

Otstbr Pattirs. 58,54 

Otstrr Pir 64 

Otbtrr Sauoh 79 

Otstbr Soup 48 

Otstrrs, bruited 58 

Otstrrs, ft-ivid 68 

Otstrrs, pickled 64 

Otstbrs, stewed 68 

Panoazbs, tu make 00, 118 

Now England 09 

Rice 09 

Partrioobs, roasted 86^ 76 

Pabtridobs, to curve 86 

Pasty, Vrnison 66, 67 

Pattirs, Otstrr 58, 64 

Pbaou Pib. 06 

Pbaoh Sauob 80 

Pbaohbs, Brandt. 107 

PBAonBB, to preserve 106 

Pbab, Green, Duck stewed with 74 

Pbab, Oreen, to cook 85 

Pbas Soup 43 

Pbppbbs, pickled 00 

Pbroh, boiled 51 

Pbbob, IHed. 53 

PiOKLB, for Curing Meats 70-73 

PlOKLBS 80-01 

Beets 01 

Cabbage, Bed 00 

Cucumbers 80, 00 

Mushrooms 01 

Nasturtiums 01 

Onions 00 

Peppers. 00 

Tomatoes 00 

Walnuts 00 

PlOKLBD POBX 69 

PiOKLiNO, Bales for 88 

Puts AND Puddings, how to make 08-88 

Apple Dampllnfi 01 



r 



130 



INDEX. 



PAoa 
Pnt% Aico PxrrDtxos (continusd). 

Apple Dumplings, baked 98 

Pie 94 

Pudding. 96 

Apricot Pie 95 

' Pudding 97 

Satter Pudding. 9T 

lieefstealc Pie 58 

Blackberry Pie 105 

Bread Pudding, elegant 96 

plain 96 

Bread and Butter Pudding. 97 

Clam Pie 65 

Cocoo-Nut Pie. 95 

€rabPie 68 

Crust, Raised, for Meat Pies 98, 94 

Currant Pie 94 

' Pudding 97 

Custard Pie 9? 

Pudding, boik-i or baked. 96 

Damson Dumplings 98 

Dripping Crust, to make 98 

Fruit Pies, Puff-Paste for 98 

General Rules for Making Pud- 
dings , . .92, 98 

Gooseberry Pie 94 

Green-Goose Pie 78 

Indian Dumplings, plain 98 

Pudding, baked 98 

Lemon Pudding. 96 

Meat Pies, Raised Crust for , . . 93 

Mince Pies 94 

Open Tarts 94 

another way. 95 

Oyster Pie 54 

Peach Pie 95 

Plum Pie 94, 95 

Pudding. 96, 97 

Potato Pudding 98 

Puff-Poste for Fruit Pies or Tarts. . 93 

Pumpkin Pie 94,95 

EhubarbPie 94 

Rice Dumplings 98 

Pudding, plain 97 

Buet Dumplings. 98 

Pudding 96 

Tarts, Icing for. 96 

PuffPastefor 98 

Veal Pie 62 

Pio, Roasted, how to carve 81 

Pig's Hbad, to cook (see Pork) 69 

PiosokPik 86 



PAOI 

PioEOir Soup 41 

Pigeons, boiled 86 

Pigeons, in Jolly 76 

Pigeons, stewed 86 

Pigeons, roasted 86, 76 

Pigeons, to carve 86 

PiKB, baked 51 

Pine- Apple, Ice Crkam 101 

"Pint Cake, to make 114, 118 

Plover, to cook and carve 87 

Plum Cake 116, 119 

Plum Pie 94, 96 

Plum Pudding .. 96,97 

Plum Pudding, Sf,uce for 80 

Plumb, Buandv 107 

Plums, to Preserve 106 

PosK, Choice of 22 

ToiiK, Directions for Carving (see Carv- 
ing) 81 

PoBK, Directions for Cooking 67-70 

Bacon and Beans, boiled. . . 68 

Cheshire Pork Pie 69 

Chops, fried 69 

Fresh Pork, boiled 67, 68 

Ham, broiled 68 

to boil a. 68 

Head Cheese 70 

Jelly of Pig's Feet and Ears 70 

Pickled Pork, boiled 68 

Pig's Feet, soused 70 

Head, baked 69 

boiled 69 

Pork Pie 69 

Roasting, Method of 67 

Roast Pig 68, 69 

Sausages, fried 69 

to make 70 

PoEK, to Pickle 69 

Potato Balls 82 

Potato Bread 112 

Potato Pudding 98 

Potatoes - 81-88 

Boiled 81,82 

Fried. 82 

Fried whole 82 

Mashed 83 

Mashed with Onions 82 

Roasted 83 

Potatoes, Sweet, Baked 88 

Boiled 88 

Roasted 88 

Potted Veal W 



INDBZ. 



131 



PAOB 

PouLTBT, Choice of 28 

PoDLTBY, Directions for Carving (see 

0ame) 88-87 

Ducks 86 

Fowls 84,85 

Geese 88 

Pigeons 86 

Turkeys 84 

PouLTBT, Directions for Cooking (see 

Game) 72-77 

Chicken Currie 75 

Fricassee 74, 75 

Fricassee, with Green Corn 76 

Pie 76 

Chickens, roasted 74 

Ducks, roasted 74 

(Sea), potted 74 

stewed, with Green Peas. . . 74 

Fowl, boiled 84,85,76 

boiled, with Oysters. 76 

broiled 76 

cold, to dress 76 

roasted 85 

Goose, roasted 78 

stewed. 78 

Green-Goose Pie 78 

Partridges, roasted 76 

Pigeon Pie 86 

Pigeons, boiled 86 

iu Jelly. 76 

roasted 86, 76 

stewed 86 

Bnipes, roasted 76 

Turke; ', boiled 84, 72, 78 

PatUes 78 

pulled 78 

roasted 84, 72 

Woodcocks, roasted 76 

Pottnd-Cakk 118 

Pounded Cakb 118 

Pbssbbvino Fbuft, Gener&l Directions 

for (see Fruil) '. 108 

Puddings, Directions for Making (see 

PM) 92-98 

Apple 96 

Apricot 97 

Batter 97 

Bread 96 

Bread nd Butter. 97 

Currant 97 

Custard 96 

Indian 96 



Puddings {continued). 

LeraoL 96 

Plum 96,97 

Potato 98 

Pumpkin 94, 95 

Ehubarb 94 

Rice 97 

Buet 96 

Pdff-Pastb fob Fruit-Pibs and 
Tabts 98 

Pumpkin Pib 94, 96 

PuupKiNS, to preserve 107 

Qubbn Cakb. 117,120 

Quince Jelly 104 

Quinces, to preserve. 106 

Babbit, to roost a. 87, 76^ 77 

Babbits, to carve 87 

Babbits, to prepare for Cooking 87 

Rabbits, to stew 77 

Raspbbbbt Cbbam 101 

Raspbekby Jam 106 

Rabpbbbby Jblly 104 

Raspdbbbibs, to preserve whole 106 

Rhubabb Jam ... 104 

Rbubabb Pib 94 

RiOB Blano Manob. 102 

RicB Cakes 114 

RiOB Dumplings 98 

RiOB Jelly 102 

RiOB Pudding, plain 97 

Roasting Mbat, remarks on 66 

BooK-FiBU, baked 48, 49 

RooK-Fisu, boiled 49 

Rook-Fish, soused. 48 

RooK-Fisii, stewed 49 

Rusk, to niake 112 

Salad, to prepare 86 

Salad, Lobbteb 62, 68 

Salmon, baked 46 

Salmon, boiled 45 

Salmok, orolled *6 

Salmon, dried 46 

Salmon, pickled 46 

Salmon, potted 46,47 

Salmon, roasted 46 

Sauces, Directions respecting. 78-81 

Apple Sauce 80 

Bread Sance 79 

Celery Sauce 80 




nMM 



» — «>■ 



m 'tm 



immiSSSImSlbmmim 



182 



UfDXX. 



TAQU 



PAM 



iAuoM (oon^mMd). 

Cod Sauoe 80 

Granberr/ Smoe 80, 81 

EelSaaoe 80 

;;: Sgg Sauoe 79 

Fowls of any sort, Sauoe for T9 

Lobster Sauce (two kinds) 79 

,; Melted Butter 78,79 

Mint Sauce 79 

> Onion Sauce 79 

; Oyster Sauce. 79 

Peach Bance 80 

Plum Pudding, Superior Sauoe for.. 80 

Sauces, Remarks on 78 

Tomato Sauce. 80 

Freneh Method 80 

BArsAOBS, to cook 89 

Bavbaobs, to make 70 

BooTOH Babbit, to make. 69 

Bba-Bass, baked .48, 49 

Bca-Babs, boiled 49 

Bbbo-Gakb. 119 

Shad, baked 48, 49 

Bhad, broiled 48 

Shad, IHed .' 48 

Shad, pickled 48 

Shad, to keep fresh without Corning.. . 49 

SuBBP's IIkad, boiled 68, 64 

SuBLL-Fisii, to cook 6^-05 

Shblts, to cook 62 

Snipes, rtiasted 76 

Shipkb, to cook and carve 87 

BouPB AND Broths, how to make 88-48 

BeefBroth 40 

'.':-. Soup 89 

-^ Broth, cheap 89 

,, made in an hour 89 

, Brown or Gravy Soup 88, 89 

Cairs Head Soup (Plain) 40 

Cauliflower Soup 42 

. Chicken Soup 48 

Clam Soup 42, 48 

EelSoup. 48 

EgftBalls 41 

, Family Soups. 40 

; Porce-Meat Balls. 41 

Mock Turtle Soup 40, 41 

Mutton Broth. „ 89 

; Neck of, Broth. 89 

MnttonSoup 89 

Oyster Soup 48 

Peas Soup 42 



Soups ahd Bbotbs {cotMnued). 

Peas Soap, without Meat or Bones.. 41 

with Meat or Bones 42 

Pigeon Soup 41 

Soup a la Julienne 41,42 

Yeal Broth, made in an hour. 89 

Vegetable Soup 41, 42 

WhiteSoup 40 

Spinach, boiled 84 

Sponob Caxbs. 118, IIT, 119 

Sponob OinobB'Bbbad 119 

S<)vashb8, to dress 86 

Stbaks, Bbbt, to cook 67 

Stbawbukbt Cbbam 101 

Stbawbbbbibs, to preserve whole 106 

Stubobon, to dress 60 

Stubobon, roasted 60 

Scocotash, to make. 86 

StiBT, how to preserve 24 

SUBT DUMPUHOS. Sd 

SUBT PCDDINO 96 

SuoAB Cakb 119 

SCOAB FOB SWBETMBATS, to clarity 106 

SuGAB, to preserve Fruit without. . .107, 108 

SuN-FiSH, to cook .- 63 

SwBET Corn, boiled 86 

SwBBT Corn, to dry. 86 

SWEBT CoBN, Dried, to cook 86 

SwBETMBATB, to Clarity Sugar for. 108 

Tarts, Icing for. 96 

Tarts, Opbn 94, 96 

Tabts, Puff-Paste for 98 

Tba 122 

Kinds of 122 

Substitute fur Cream in 122 

Tba Cakes 108, 118, 114, 118 

Tomato, Ketchup. 91 

Tomato Sauce (French) 80 

Tomatoes, baked 84 

Tomatoes, pickled 90 

Tomatoes, to preserve 108 

Tongue, to carve 82 

Tongues, a Pickle for 70, 71 

Tongues, Calves', to cook 61 

Tongues, Beeves', to dress. 24, 68 

Tbipe, how to dress and cook. 68 

Trout, baked , 61 

Trout, boiled 61 

Trout, fried 62 

Trout, to dress 61 

TmuuT, boUad 94,79,71 



B. 



LNDKX. 



ISS 



pAoa 

.... 43 
.... 41 
...41,42 
.... 89 
...41,42 

40 

84 
i'ilT, 119 

118 

86 

6T 

101 

106 

W 

80 

.... 86 

.... 24 

«d 

96 

119 

ty 108 

t...l0T,108 

B2 

85 

.... 86 

86 

108 

96 

94,96 

98 

122 

122 

122 

18, 114, 118 

91 

80 

84 

90 

.... 108 
.... 82 
...TO, 71 
... 61 
...24,68 

68 

.... 61 

61 

62 

..... 61 



W'. 



PA«B 

TcBKiT, polled T8 

TcBKBT, roasted 84,72 

TlTBIUTPATmB 78 

TuuKBTS, to canre. 84 

TinunPB, boiled 84 

Utinsiui, KnoHBH (see Kitchen.) 7-21 

Vakitt Cakk 120 

Vbal, choice of 22 

VSulTs Directions for Carving (see Carv- 
ing) 80 

Vbal, Directions for Cooking 89-62 

Calf s Head, boUed 69, 60 

Heart, roasted. 61 

Liver, roasted 61 

Calves' Brains 62 

Feet 60 

Tongues 61 

Cutlets 61 

with fine Herbs 80 

Knuckle of Veal 69 

LegofVeal 69 

MincedVoal 60 

Potted Veal 61 

Shoulder of Veal 69 

i French way of 

Dressing 60 

Sweet-Breads, roasted 60 

Veal Olives 61 

Pie 62 

to keep 69 

to roast 69 

Veal Obavt, how to make 78 

Vbgetablb Soup 41, 42 

Vbobtablks, on Dressing 61-87 

Asparagus, boiled 84 

Beans, boiled 86 

French or Scarlet, to cook. . 86 

Beets, to prepare 84 

Cabbages, boiled 83 

stewed 88 



Red, pickled 88 

Carrots, boiled 84 

Cauliflowers, to dress 83 

Coldslaw, to prepare (two ways). . . 86 

Cucumbers 87 

Egg-Plant, to cook 86 

Qreen Peas 86 



PAOB 

VxaBTABLBS, oo Drssslnf ioorUituud). 

Green Vegetables, to boil 81 

Mosbrooms, to dress 85 

Onions to oook 64 

Peas, Green, to dr«M 85 

Potato-Balls 81 

Potatoes, boiled 81, 82 

ft-ied 82 

fHed whole 62 

mashed 88 

mashed with Onions 82 

roasted 88 

Sweet, baked 88 

Sweetjboiled 88 

Sweet, roasted 88 

Salad, to prepare . . 86 

Spinach, boiled 84 

Squashes, to dress 86 

Succotash, to make 86 

Sweet Corn, boiled 86 

how to dry 86 

Dried, how to cook .... 86 

Tomatoes, baked. 64 

Turnips, boiled 84 

Vbnison, choice of 22 

Vbnison, Directions for Cooking. 66, 67 

Cold Venison, to stew 67 

Gravy for Boast Venison 66 

Hash 67 

Minced Venison 67 

Pasty, to prepare Venison for 66 

Boasting, Method of 66 

Venison Pasty 66, 67 

Vknison, Haunch of, how to carve ... 80 
Venison, to Keep 66 

Wafebs, to make 114 

Waffles, to make 114, 115 

Walnut Ketchup 91, 92 

Walnuts, pickled 90 

Washington Cakes, to make 119 

Wedding Cake 116 

Welch BABsrr, to make 89 

White Soup 40 

Whitings, boiled 60 

Wild- Fowl, to cook and carve 88, 86 

Wonders, how to make 118 

Woodcocks, roasted 76 

Woodcocks, to cook and carve. 87 



m 



m 



fgJimimr*< i * wriim0 i ^ i KU in mn M i mnitiwM iiwm! 



f 








■'^'Tysf^rv^?": 






■■■' ■ '*^-'''T.:^i*« 





♦ * 




The Canadian National Series 



OF 



READING BOOKS, 



ILLUSTEATED. 



■■•'^mI' 



Sanctioned by the Council of Public Instructlonri 

f6r Ontario. ^' 






No labor or expense has been spared to make these Books, in' every'respeci, 

in Type, Illustrations, Papt r and Binding, the best Reading Books 

that have ever been published in Oanada. 



PRICES THE VERY LOWEST. 




Ordens solicited. 



Tbrtmto, Jan.. 1858. 



Adam MZLLSB, Publisher^ 



■* 






mtm 




