LIBRARY OF COKGRK SS. 
<^. ~Tfy\\5 

tyfyi^J/ «= V',.. 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 






v/_ 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 



amutl for Poimkqjra, 



COMPRISING 

A BILL OF FARE FOR BREAKFAST, DINNER, AND TEA, FOR EVERY 

DAY IN THE YEAR. 



APPENDIX, 

CONTAINING RECIPES FOR PICKLES AND SAUCES. 




,r./? 



7 *. NEW YORK: 
G. P. PUTNAM & SON, 661" BROADWAY. 

1868. 









Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1S88, by 
GEORGE P. PUTNAM & Son., 
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the 
Southern District of New York. 



PEEFAOE. 



WHAT SHALJL, WE SAT? 

The design of this Manual is to suggest to 
ladies, without the trouble of thinking, what is 
'seasonable for the table, each day in the week, 
and how it shall be cooked. Also to present to 
the community of housekeepers, who sigh over the 
responsibility of providing for the daily wants of 
life, an agreeable variety, which rosy be varied to 
suit the income of the reader. The receipts have 
all been tested by actual experience. A daily 
'• bill of fare " for breakfast, dinner, and tea is 
given, for one week in each month, which will 
present to the reader at once what is wanted, 
without the trouble of looking over a cook-book. 
A collection of Pickles and Sauces of rare merit 
form a desirable addition at the end. 



BREAKFAST 



A word on this early meal. It should be what will 
best fortify a man for the labor of a long day, and 
should consist of palatable solids. In a chilly climate 
like America, wine is a mistake, even with French 
cookery ; if strong, it diminishes business keenness ; if 
weak, it imparts no warmth. Instinct points to hot 
beverages, either coffee, tea, or chocolate. Every va- 
riety of cold meats, game, potted meats, and fish, 
tongue, boar's head, pickled poultry, etc, are suitable, 
and with bread form a desirable meal. Omelets, sar- 
dines, and roes of different fish, hot buttered cakes, etc., 
make the eater heavy for the day. There is really no 
time when one needs so good a supply of food as at 
breakfast, when one has not eaten for twelve or fourteen 
hours, and fuel is needed for active existence; yet no 
meal is so much neglected, and people well informed 
fritter an appetite away on toast and tea. Fruit is a good 
digester, dried mango-fish from India, cranberry jam, etc., 
are all good. A breakfast should be as carefully com- 
posed as a dinner. Secure by art what is due to the 
dignity of the meal, and give it its true position. 



INDEX 



PAGE 

A^rench pie 110 

Almond cake 17 

" custard 23 

" croquantes 02 

" pudding 48 

Apple Charlotte 101 

" dumplings 44 

" fritters 46 

" jelly 37 

" pie 23 

" souffle 86 

Apres cake 34 

Arrowroot pudding 13 

Asparagus soup G8 

Barley broth 13 

Baked cod's head 83 

" Indian pudding 35 

" calf'shead 79 

" batter pudding 92 

" mackerel 39 

" quince pudding 15 

" pike 80 

Bake well pudding 59 

Bean soup 30 

Beef a-la-mode 49 

" collops 56 

" patties 10 

" soup 11 

" ragout , 17 

Beefsteak pudding 70 

Benton tea-cakes 10 

Black bean soup 43 

Blanc mange 29 

Black plum cake 58 



PACE 

Blackberry pudding. 84 

Boiled perch 109 

Boiled beef, sauce piquant 28 

Bohemian cresm 61 

Bolas d'amor 124 

Boned lam b 93 

Bouilli 93 

Bread and butter pudding 91 

" cake 53 

" pudding 21 

Brown biscuit 23 

" fricassee 84 

" bread ice 57 

Bonbons 133 

Brandy pudding 47 

Boiled pigeons 51 

Buns 54 

Buckwheat cakes 30 

Burnt cream 25 

Calves' -foot jelly 97 

" liver stewed 26 

" brains 72 

Carrot pie 108 

Caramel custard 15 

Candied fruit 133 

Celery soup 19 

Chicken croquettes 117 

salad 123 

pillau 22 

soup 46 

pot-pie 55 

pudding 74 

a la Carmelite 69 

pie 112 



INDEX. 



Chicken soup with tomato 20 

" patties 13 

Chile sauce 130 

Cheap soup 109 

Champagne cream.. , 36 

Chocolate pudding 44 

" cream 17 

Charlotte Eusse 121 

Cheese-cakes 121 

Clam fritters 126 

" soup 27 

Croquettes of calf's brains 22 

Cranberry and rice jelly 58 

Crackers with anchovy sauce. . . 47 

" toast £0 

Cream fritters 47 

" pudding 81 

" cake 116 

Creme au Marasquin 63 

" a la vanille 118 

College pudding £6 

Cottage soup 118 

" pudding 41 

Coffee custard 12 

" cakes 75 

Cocoanut pudding 43 

" pie 55 

Codling soup 82 

Corn meal griddle-oakes 19 

" bread 14 

'" pone 20 

Cookies 125 

Cold ham cake 16 

Curry of chicken 37 

C iip-cake 16 

Cucumber vinegar 129 

" stewed 73 

Cutlets of sole 91 

Custard cream of chocolate £1 

Coloring for jellies 133 

Damson pudding lot 

Delicate dish 14 

Duck with peas SO 

Dutch butter , 55 



PAGE 

Eel soup 95 

Fish soup 18 

Feather cake 38 

Flemish cream 54 

Flour pudding 10 

French flummery 69 

Fricandels of veal 61 

Game soup 112 

German cake 90 

" pufl'fl 31 

" toast 53 

Gems 27 

Ginger cup-cake 21 

" pound cake 114 

Giblet soup 14 

Gloucester pudding 57 

Gooseberry pudding 73 

Green pea soup 60 

Green corn 72 

Gravy soup 120 

Harrico soup 106 

Harrison cake 23 

Ham toast 57 

" sandwiches 44 

Hasty pudding 110 

Dock 10S 

Hot gingerbread 37 

Huckleberry pudding 94 

Italian cream 60 

Icecream — Newport rceipt.... 82 

Irish stew 114 

Jelly cake 119 

Jersey pickle 129 

Kedgeree 75 

Kidney fritters 1C9 

" toast C6 

Kisses 84 

Kringies 44 

La Galette cake 122 

Lamb's head 41 

" " stewed 87 

Lemon cl.eese-cakes 67 

" jelly 20 

" pudding 89 



INDEX. 



TAGE 

Lemon syllabub C6 

Lobster pie 66 

" salad 40 

" soup 85 

Madeira buns 29 

Mat rimony Ill 

Matelote of fish 45 

Miroton of apples 38 

" ofveal 33 

Mince pie 29 

Macaroni pudding 01 

Montagu pudding 52 

Mother Eve's pudding (39 

Mock turtle soup 24 

Mutton kebobbed S9 

" kidneys fried 46 

" pillau 63 

Muffins 21 

Mullagatawnee soup 49 

Mushroom catsup 130 

Marmalades 132 

Neat's tongue fricassee 85 

New Year's cake IS 

New England chowder 4S 

Orange custard 34 

" butter 65 

" syrup 133 

Oley-cooks 42 

Ox-cheek soup 86 

Ox-tail soup 115 

Oyster soup 9 

Orange compote 132 

Pea soup 16 

Peach pudding 94 

PI ain cake 28 

Plum pudding, not rich 64 

" rich 117 

Pigeon pie 43 

" fricassee 82 

" with peas 62 

Pillau of rabbit." 97 

Pickles and sauces 127 

Pickled cauliflower 127 

" cucumbers 127 



PGE 

Pickled eggs 127 

" lemons 128 

" mushrooms 128 

" walnuts 128 

Potted fish 107 

" pigeons 30 

Pomrne mange 31 

Pound-cake 25 

" pudding 32 

Potatoes a la maitre d'hotel 9 

" fritters 110 

" soup 123 

Preserves and confectionery 131 

Quald ng pudding 63 

Queen cake 58 

Ragout of veal 48 

Raspberry cream 32 

" vinegar 134 

Rhenish cream 38 

Rice croquettes 71 

4; custards 45 

" gridd'.e-cakcs 107 

" cake 31 

" soup 25 

" pudding with fruit 18 

Ris de reau l7 

Rissoles 65 

Roast beef, with Yorkshire pud- 
ding 45 

Roast ham 98 

• " lobster 93 

Rolypoly pudding 96 

Sauce universal 129 

Sausage toast 9 

Seed cake 110 

Scallopped oysters 15 

Scot's kail soup 41 

Scotch cake 12 

Snow cream 59 

Soft boiled custard 88 

Sponge cake 47 

Sponge cake 112 

" pudding 107 

Spanish fritters 113 



8 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Spanish soup Ill 

Spiced veal 106 

Squash pie 12 

Stewed eels 119 

" chickens 124 

M codfish 78 

" terrapin 87 

beef 91 

" scallops 98 

Soup a la Bisque 42 

" Julienne 32 

" Creel....- 90 

Sago soup ' 22 

Soup a la Flamande 35 

" maigre 98 

Spring soup 39 

Summer soup 74 

Swiss pudding 119 

Sweetbreads 21 

Sweetme t pudding 67 

Strawberry jelly , 74 

Tapioca pudding 116 

Toad-in-a-hole 32 

Tipsy pudding 51 

Tomato soup 52 

" catsup 130 

To flavor vinegar 129 



PAGE 

To keep grapes in brandy 132 

To preserve strawberries in 

wine 132 

To preserve oranges or lemons 

in jelly 132 

To dr y cherries without sugar.. 133 

Tome 133 

Transparent pudding 99 

Turnip soup 45 

Turtle maigre soup 36 

Turk's cap 26 

Vegetable marrow soup 78 

" toast 54 

" ragout 75 

" soup 70 

Veal cutlets with rice 99 

" broth 33 

" cake 23 

Venison soup 113 

Vermicelli soup 28 

Waflles 11 

Walnut vinegar 129 

Wheat biscuit 34 

White soup 55 

Winter soup 124 

Whipt cream 79 

Winibeg pudding 34 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 



jtajstjajetst. 

MONDAY. 

Breakfast. — Cold roast beef. Potatoes a. la maitre 
d'Hotel. (Boil the potatoes, and cut in thin slices. 
Take a pint of milk, and when scalding hot, stir in a 
tablespoonful of butter and flour, rubbed together. Add 
a small bunch of parsley, chopped fine. When well 
mixed, throw in the potatoes, shaking carefully without 
a knife or spoon, to avoid breaking. Salt to taste.) 
Sausage toast. (Scald the sausages in boiling water, 
fry to a light brown, chop fine, and spread on buttered 
toast.) Potted fish. Rolls and butter. Tea and cof- 
fee. 

Dinner. 

Oyster Soup. — Take fifty oysters, strain through a 

sieve, and put the liquor on the fire. When scalding 

hot, take \ lb. of butter, and beat with 6.oz. of flour; 

roll \ doz. butter crackers to a powder, and add all to 

1* 



1 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

the liquor, with salt and pepper to the taste, and a small 
pinch of powdered mace. Then add the oysters with a 
quart of milk (and a gill of cream if you have it), and 
stir with a silver spoon for ten minutes. Do not let 
them hoil, but thoroughly scald. 

Boiled Halibut. 

Roast Pork. — Serve with apple-sauce, potatoes, and 
tomatoes. Baste with a little butter and flour, and 
rub with dried sage crumbed. 

Beef Patties. — Chop fine rare roast beef, season with 
pepper, salt, and a little onion. Make a plain paste, 
cut into shapes like an apple puff, fill with the mince, 
and bake quickly. 

Dessert. 

Flour Pudding. — Five eggs, 1 qt. milk, 4 tablespoonfuls 
of flour, well stirred together. Bake in a quick oven, 
and eat with cold sauce. 

Fruit and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch, if the Dinner is late. 

Cold pickled salmon, tongue, bread and butter, can- 
ned peaches, tea and coffee, Benton tea-cakes (1 qt. of 
flour mixed with milk to a paste, 1 tablespoonful of 
melted butter. Roll very thin, and bake on hot hearth). 

Cream cake (1 lb. flour, 1 lb. sugar, £ lb. of butter, 
\ pt. milk, 4 eggs, citron, raisins, and spice to taste). 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 11 

TUESDAY. 
Breakfast. — Breaded veal cutlet. Fried potatoes. 
Pickled tripe. Waffles. (Put 2 pints of milk into separate 
pans ; warm one slightly, melt in it \ lb. of butter, and 
set it away to cool. Beat 8 eggs, and mix with the 
other pan. stirring in gradually A- lb. of flour, and a little 
salt. Then mix the contents of both pans together, and 
add a large tablespoonful of yeast. Set near the fire to 
rise. When quite light, heat the waffle-iron and butter 
it, pour in the batter, and when done one side, turn. 
Send to the table hot, six on a plate, buttered, and 
strewn with powdered sugar if desired.) Hot brown 
bread. Cold bread. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 
Beef Soup. — Take a shank bone, with part of the leg, 
and put in a kettle with* soft water to cover it, with a 
small piece of butter to keep from burning, while the 
juices are extracting. Set on the back of the range, and 
cook slowly for six hours, then strain, and when cold, 
remove every particle of fat. Place in 'another pot 5 
carrots, 5 onions, 1 cup of rice, f a bunch of celery, 
and a small bunch of parsley. In this pot may be plac- 
ed any bones, or pieces of cooled meat. Let them also 
stew slowly for six hours, then strain through a colan- 
der, and add to the soup, with h a cup of tomato catsup. 



12 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

Let all -come to a boil together, then serve. Use a 
wooden spoon in stirring. This quantity of soup will 
suffice a small family for a week, and should be kept in 
a cool place, in an earthen vessel. 

Fresh Cod, boiled, with melted butter. 

Roast Chickens, with mashed potatoes, cauliflower, 

and stewed celery. 

Cold Tongue. 

Dessert. 

Squash Pie. — One qt. of pulp strained through a sieve ; 
boil 1 qt. of milk, and stir the squash into it, with 2 
spoonfuls of flour shaken in. Add 2 eggs, and a piece 
of butter size of an egg. Season to the taste with sugar, 
cinnamon, and a little salt. 

Coffee Custard. — Eoil a pint of milk, and pour upon 
it, while boiling, 2 tablespoonfuls of whole coffee, warmed 
by the fire. Let it cool for an hour, then sweeten, add 
the yolks of 4 eggs, thicken over the fire (stirring all 
the time) . When thick enough, strain, and fill the glasses. 

Grapes, apples, and hickory nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold roast meat, raw oysters, apple-sauce, French 
bread and butter. Crackers. Scotch cake. (Stir to a 
cream 1 lb. of sugar and f lb. of butter, add the juice 
and grated rind of a lemon, with a wine-glass of brandy. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 13 

Beat separately the whites and yolks of 9 eggs, and stir 
into the cake. Add 1 lb. of sifted flower, and just as it 
goes into the pan, 1 lb. of stoned raisins.) 



WEDNESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Hashed chicken on toast. Cold snipe. 
Mutton chops. Graham rolls. Dry toast. French 
bread and butter. Chocolate and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Barley Broth. — Boil gently, for half an hour, \ pt. of 
pearl barley in a gallon of water. Take 3 lbs. lamb 
chops, with fat cut off, and put in a stewpan, with water to 
cover them. Add any kind of vegetables, carrots, tur- 
• nips, onions, and celery cut fine. When tender, add to 
the barley water, and boil slowly 2 hours. Salt and 
pepper to taste. 

Fried Scallops. 

Roast Bitch, (scald, to prevent being oily,) with 
baked potatoes, onions, canned sweet corn, and celery. 

Chicken Patties. — Chop fine and season well, and 
serve in puff paste. 

Bessert. 

Arrowroot Pudding. — Simmer a pint of milk with a 
little cinnamon, take a tablepoonsful of arrowroot, mix 



14 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

with cold water, and pour into the milk, stirring all the 
time. When cold, add 3 eggs well beaten, and stir ail 
together. Bake 4- an hour in a dish lined with puff paste, 
and grate a little nutmeg on the top. 

Delicate Dish. — Beat the whites of 6 eggs, with 2 
spoonfuls of currant jelly, to a solid froth, so that it will 
not fall. Serve with cream and powdered sugar. 

Grapes, apples, and pecan nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Stewed oysters, cold game, French bread. Strawberry 
jam, sponge cake. 

THURSDAY. 

Breakfast. — Cold boiled ham. Cold roast duck. . 
Omelet, with parsley. Stewed potatoes, with cream. 
Steamed toast. Corn bread (3 cups of meal, 1 cup of 
flour, 1 tablespoonful of butter, do. sugar, 1 teaspoonful 
of soda, 1 qt. of buttermilk, or sour milk, 2 eggs). Tea 
and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Giblet Sotq). — Scald and clean a set of giblets, stew 
in a little gravy with 2 onions, a bunch of sweet herbs. 
2 glasses of white wine, pepper, and salt. When tender, 
take them out and strain the broth. Make a stock with 2 



WHAT SHALL AVE EAT? 15 

lbs. of beef, and 5 pints of water. Skin 2 onions, slice thin, 
and fry in butter. Add flour to thicken the broth, with 
majoram and parsley, and stir all into the boiling stock, 
Boil ^ an hour, pass through a sieve, and put again 
on the fire, skimming carefully. Add the giblets, 2 
glasses of wine, and a little lemon-juice. Season well. 

Boiled Striped Bass, melted butter. 

Boast leg of Mutton, with boiled potatoes, fried 
parsnips, boiled hominy, and baked tomatoes. 

Scalloped Oysters. — Scald the oysters in their own 
liquor, take them out with a fork, lay in a deep dish, 
sprinkling over each one rolled cracker crumbs, pepper 
and salt, and small pieces of butter. Stir a little butter 
and flour together, and stir into the liquor ; then fill up 
the dish with it, and brown in the oven. 

Dessert. 

Baked Quince Pudding. — Scald some quinces till 
tender, pare, and scrape off the pulp ; then strew it with 
ginger, cinnamon, and sugar. To a pint of milk, or 
cream, put the yolks of 4 eggs and stir in the quince to a 
proper consistency. Bake in a dish liued with paste. 
Canned quinces can be used if necessary. 

Caramel Custard. — Melt \ lb. of pounded sugar over 
a slow fire till it begins to tint, stirring all the time. 
Boil 1 oz. of isinglass in a pint of milk, and pour it on 



1 6 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

the caramel, stirring till quite dissolved. Beat 4 eggs 
and add ; then stir over the fire to thicken. Put in a 
mould, and then set on the ice. 
Fruit and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold ham cake. (Take ham that may be getting dry, 
pound finely, with the fat, in a mortar, season with 
pepper and mixed spice ; add clarified butter sufficient 
to moisten, and place \ an hour in the oven. Put the 
mould in warm water a few minutes, that it may turn 
out well.) Pickled oysters, dry tcast, French bread, 
griddle-cakes, brandy peaches, cup-cake (4 eggs, 4 cups 
flour, 3 cups powdered sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup milk, 
1 glass white wine, spices, and a teaspoonful soda). Tea. 



FRIDAY. 



Breakfast — Cold roast mutton, pickled pigs' feet, 

rolls, brown bread cream toast, boiled samp. Tea and 

coffee. 

Dinner. 

Pea Soup. — Put 1 qt. split peas into 3 qts. boiling 
water (first soak the peas over night) ; boil gently till 
dissolved, strain through a sieve, and add thyme, sweet 
marjoram, and some mushroom catsup. A small piece 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 17 

of ham will improve the flavor. Serve with small pieces 
of fried bread. 

Boiled Whitefish. 

Roast Turkey. — With stewed potatoes, canned sweet 
corn, baked sweet potatoes, and cranberry jelly. 

Beef Ragout. — Fry 2 lbs. of beef till quite brown, 
put it into a stewpan with 6 onions, pepper it well, and 
stew slowly 4 hours. Serve it up with pickled walnuts, 
gherkins, and capers, just warmed in the gravy. 

Dessert. 
Apple Pie. 

Chocolate Cream. — Scrape into 1 qt. of milk (or cream) 
1 oz. of best French chocolate, and add ^ lb. of sugar. 
.Boil and and mill it. When smooth, take it off, and add 
the whites of 6 eggs, beaten to a froth. Strain through a 
sieve, and put in glasses. 

Oranges, raisins, and almonds. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold turkey, roast oysters, cheese, Graham crackers, 
preserved ginger, 'tea and chocolate, almond cake (2 oz. 
blanched bitter almonds, pounded fine ; 7 oz. flour, sifted 
and dried ; 10 eggs ; 1 pound loaf sugar, powdered and 
sifted, and a wine-glass of rose-water). 



18 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

SATURDAY. 

Breakfast. — Broiled bam, potted game, chipped pota- 
toes, milk toast, corn bread, tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Fish Soup. — Take one pound each of any fresh water 
fish — pike, perch, eels, &c. ; wash in salt and water, and 
then stew with carrots, leeks, sweet herbs, and onions, in 
as much water as will cover them. Stew until all is re- 
duced to a pulp, then strain, and boil an hour, with a lit- 
tle mace, celery, and mushroom catsup, or any high- 
seasoned sauce. 

Fried Clams. 

Broiled Beefsteak, with celery, potatoes, and stewed 
tomatoes. 

Broiled Snipe. 

Dessert. 

Cranberry Tarts. 

Bice Pudding, with fruit. — Swell the rice in milk, over 
the fire, and add pared and quartered apples, with a lit- 
tle currant jelly. 

Pears and dates. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold corn beef, hashed chicken, fried hominy, hot bis- 
cuit, raised, cranberry sauce, chocolate, New Year's cake 



WHAT SHALL AVE EAT? 19 

(3 lbs. flour, l£ lbs. powdered sugar, 1 lb. butter, 1 pt. 
milk, with a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in- it, juice of 
a lemon. Cut into shapes to bake). 



SUNDAY. 

Breakfast. — Com beef hash, cold snipe, corn meal 
griddle-cakes (scald half a pint of Indian meal, half a 
pint dry, do. flour, and stir all into a pint of milk, with a 
tablespoonful of butter, and one egg. Spread very thin 
on the griddle). Rolls, dry toast, tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Celery Soap. — Blanch the heads of two bunches of cel- 
ery in warm water, and put them in a stewpan of broth 
made from boiled chicken, with a lump of sugar. Boil 
an hour, until soft enough to pass through a sieve ; add a 
cup of milk, and season to taste. 

Roast Beef, with potatoes, beans, tomatoes, and spiced 
currants. 

Oyster Pie. 

Cold Boiled Ham. 

Dessert. 

Apple Puffs. — Pare and core apples, stew until tender, 
and when cold mix with sugar, grated lemon, and a lit 
tie quince marmalade. Put in thin paste, and bake \ 
of an hour. 



20 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

Soft Boiled Custard. 

Macaroons, grapes, apples, and figs. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Broiled smoked salmon, sliced ham, steam toast, Gra- 
ham crackers, assorted cakes, currant jelly, bread and 
butter, tea and chocolate. 



FEBRUARY. 

MONDAY. 

Breakfast. — Beefsteak broiled, cold tongue, baked po- 
tatoes, cracker toast (made of Boston hard crackers dip- 
ped in boiling milk, thickened with butter and flour), corn 
pone. (Take a pint of meal and scald it, and -when cold, 
add 2 eggs, salt, and a cup of milk. Heat a round cake- 
pan, and butter well ; then put the pone in, and bake \ an 
hour with a quick fire). Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Chicken Soup with Tomato. — Boil an old fowl slowly 
until it falls to pieces, season with salt, whole pepper, and 
2 onions. Stain it, add two cups of tomato, and boil well 
together. 

Frost Fish Fried. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 21 

Boast Turkey, with currant jelly, mashed potatoes, 
and stewed celery. 

Sweetbreads. — Parboil them slightly, and fry a light 
brown, with some mushroom catsup in the gravy. 

Dessert. 

Custard Cream of Chocolate. — Grate 2 oz. of spiced 
chocolate into a pint of milk ; put into a stewpan, and add 
the yolks of 6 eggs. Stir over the fire until it thickens. 

Bread Pudding. — 1 pt. of bread crumbs, covered with 
milk, cinnamon, and nutmeg. ■ Stir in, when hot, J lb. of 
butter, \ lb. of sugar, and mix well together. When 
cool, add 6"eggs, and bake one hour in a deep dish. 

Oranges, nuts, and raisins. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Cold roast veal, sardines, Graham bread, French rolls, 
preserved pears, tea and chocolate, ginger cup-cake (5 
eggs, 2 teacups of molasses, 2 do. brown sugar rolled 
fine, 2 do. butter, 1 cup of milk, 5 cups flour, \ cup of 
powdered allspice and cloves, -|- cup ginger, \ teaspoon- 
ful soda melted in vinegar). 



TUESDAY. 



Breakfast. — Codfish balls, cold turkey, muffins (1 qt. 
milk. 2 eggs, 2 spoonfuls of yeast, do. flour, butter size 



22 WHAT SII.VLL WJE EAT ? 

of an egg, melted in the milk, and a little salt. Warm 
the milk and add the rest; let it rise, and bake on a grid- 
dle). Corn bread, rolls, tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Sago Sou]). — Take 2 qts. of gravy soup, made of beef, 
thicken with sago to the consistency of pea soup, and sea- 
son with catsup. 

Codfish, with oyster sauce. 

Chicken Pillau, with potatoes, fried parsnips, and 
stewed celery. (Put a large fat chicken, old or young, 
into a pot, with 1 carrot, onion, and a sprig of sweet 
herbs. Boil and skim. When the chicken is half cooked 
add a pint of tomatoes, cut up (fresh or canned), and a 
little broken mace. When it is done enough to eat as 
boiled fowl, take it up ; take out the carrot and onion, 
and measure the liquor. There should be about 3 pints. 
To each 2f cups of soup, put 1 of rice, and when it has 
boiled ten minutes, stir in a piece of butter, size of an 
egg. Before putting in the rice, pepper and salt the broth, 
and when it is tender (but not too soft) take it up. Serve 
in an oval dish, the fowl in the middle of the rice). 

Croquettes of Calfs Brains. — Blanch the brains, and 
beat them up with one or two chopped sage leaves, pep- 
per, salt, a few bread crumbs soaked in milk, and 1 egg. 
Roll them into balls, and fry a light brown. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 23 



1. 

Apple Pie. — Pare and quarter apples, scald in sugar 
and water, and grate the rind of a lemon over them. 
Add the juice of the lemon, \ doz. whole cloves, butter 
size of a walnut, and fill up the dish with the syrup. 
Use puff paste. 

Almond Custard. — One pt. of cream, do. millr, ^ lb. 
shelled sweet almonds, 2 oz. bitter almonds, 4 table- 
spoonfuls rose-water, \ lb. white sugar, the yolks of 8 
eggs, \ teaspoonful oil of lemon. Blanch the almonds, 
and pound to a paste, mixiug the rose-water with it. 
Beat the eggs very light, and add with the sugar. Stir 
all gradually into the cream and milk, and beat well 
together. Stir on the fire till thick, and when cold, add 
the whites beaten to a froth. 

Figs and pecan nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold ham, potted fish, Indian griddle-cakes, cheese, 
brown biscuit (3 quarts Graham flour, put into one 
of milk and water, with a tablespoonful of butter, a 
teaspoonful of soda, and a little salt). Preserved pine- 
apple, tea. Harrison cake (5 cups flour, \\ butter, 1\ 
sugar, 1 molasses, 1 cream, 4 eggs, 1 lb. raisins, citron, 
and mixed spice. Bake 3 hours). 



24 WHAT SHALL WE E*VT ? 



WEDNESDAY. 



Breakfast. — Broiled liver, cold venison, potato cakes 
fried, milk toast of Graham bread, rolls, tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Mock Turtle Soup. — Take half a calf's head, fresh, 
and'unstripped of skin, remove the brains, and clean the 
head carefully in hot water, leaving it in cold water for 
an hour. Then put it into 6 qts. warm water, with 2 
lbs. veal, do. pork, a roasted onion stuck with cloves, a 
rind of lemon, 2 sliced carrots, a bunch of herbs, and a 
head of celery. Let it boil slowly 2 hours ; then take 
out the head and pork. Make forcemeat balls of the 
brains and tongue, break the bones of the head, put all 
into the soup, and boil 2 hours more. Put into a 
small stewpan a piece of butter, onions sliced thin, with 
parsley, thyme, mace, and allspice. Add flour to thicken, 
and stir into the soup slowly. Boil gently 1 hour more, 
pass through a sieve, season with salt, cayenne, lemon- 
juice, and a pint of Madeira wine. Add mushrooms if 
desired, and serve with lemons cut in quarters. 

Fried Fels. 

Broiled Woodcock, with squash, sweet potatoes, and 
hominy. 

Boiled Com Beef. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 25 

Dessert. 

Cranberry Pie. 

Burnt Cream. — Make a rich custard without sugar, 
flavor with lemon, and when cold, sift white sugar thickly 
over it, and brown in the oven. 

Oranges and grapes. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Fried oysters, ham cake, hominy, dry toast, preserved 
damsons, bread and butter, chocolate, pound cake (1 lb. 
flour, do. powdered sugar, 1 lb. butter, 10 eggs, £ glass 
of wine, do. brandy, do. rose-water, mixed; 12 drops 
essence lemon, 1 tablespoonful mixed spice). 



THURSDAY. 

Breahfast. — Turkey hash, pickled tripe, fried potatoes, 
buckwheat cakes, brown and white bread, tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Rice Soup. — Make a beef soup, boil 5 hours, then 
strain and add a cup of rice, same of tomato, pepper, 
and salt. 

Fried Halibut, 

2 



26 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

Boiled Mutton, cap 21- sauce, with baked potatoes, 
canned sweet corn, and turnips. 

Calfs Liver Stewed. — Cut the liver in pieces, lard 
nicely, and spread chopped parsley, pepper, and salt over 
them. Put a small piece of butter well mixed with flour 
in the bottom of a stewpan, put in the liver, and let it 
cook gently in its own juices until done. 

Dessert. 

College Pudding. — Take ^ lb. of grated bread crumbs, 
suet (chopped fine), and currants; mix with 4 oz. of flour 
and 1 egg. Beat in a glass of brandy, season with nut- 
meg, and boil 3 hours in a mould. Serve with cold 
sauce. 

Lemon Jelly. — One qt. calf's foot stock, £ pt. lemon 
juice, f lb. of sugar, the rind of 2 lemons cut thin, and 
the whites and shells of 5 eggs. Boil 20 minutes, and 
throw in a teacup of cold water; then let it boil 5 min- 
utes longer. Take from the fire and let it stand £ an 
hour covered close. Then run through a bag till clear. 

Apples, nuts, and dates. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold woodcock, broiled herring, cracker toast, French 
bread and butter, currant jelly, tea, Turk's cap (1 pint 
cream, 7 eggs, * lb. flour, and salt; bake quickly). 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 27 

FKIDAY. 

Breakfast. — Mutton chops, minced codfish, with egg, 
stewed potatoes, rice cakes, gems (wheat flour, unbolted, 
mixed with water and salt, baked in a roll pan on the 
top of the range), cold bread, tea, and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Clam Soup. — Strain the clams, and put on the liquor 
to boil ; beat a spoonful of butter and 1 of flour together, 
with pepper, and stir into cold water ; add to the soup 
with the clams chopped fine, and when nearly done, add 
a little milk. 

Baked Whitefisli. 

Boiled Turkey, oyster sauce, with potatoes, squash, 
and sweet corn. 

Bis de Veau. — Blanch 3 sweetbreads, and simmer in 
a well-flavored gravy till quite done. Have ready 3 
round trays of oiled paper, and lay them in, lightly wetted 
with gravy, fine crumbs of bread, pepper, salt, and a 
little nutmeg. Do slowly on a gridiron, and serve in 
the case3. 

Dessert. 

Peach Pie. 

Fancy Cakes. 

Figs, nuts, and prunes. 



28 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

Tea, or Luxcn. 
Veal cake. (Bone a breast of veal, and cut in slices 
cut also slices of bam, and boil 6 eggs hard; butter a 
deep pan, and place all in layers, one over the other, cut- 
ting the eggs in slices, and seasoning with cayenne, 
chopped herbs, anchovy, or any high-flavored sauce. 
Cover, and bake -i hours, and when taken from the oven 
lay a weight upon it ; when cold, turn it out.) Cold 
roast beef, English pickles, crackers assorted, strawberry 
jam, rolls, plain cake (-t lbs. flour, 2 lbs. currants, 
and 3- lb. of butter, with clove, carraway seeds, and 
lemon peel, grated to the taste. Wet with milk, and i 
pt. yeast). 

SATURDAY. 

Breakfast. — Venison steak, cold boiled mutton, waf- 
fles, Indian banock, bread and butter, cocoa and coffee 

DlNKSK. 

Vermicelli Soup. — Plain beef, without vegetables; 
when strained, add vermicelli. 

Striped Bass, Broiled. 

Boiled JBetfj sauce piquant, with tomatoes, pota- 
toes, and parsnips, boiled. 

Boil the rump slowly for 5 hours; make a strong 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 29 

gravy of veal, ham, 2 spoonfuls of vinegar, parsley, 
cloves, onions, and herbs. Strain, and add mushrooms, 
capers, and a glass of brandy. 
Grouse Roasted. 

Dessert. 

Mince Pie. — Take 2 lbs. of beef chopped fine, 2 
lbs. stoned raisins, 2 lbs. currants, 1 lb. sultana raisins, 
2 lbs. apples, f lb. sugar, 2 lbs. suet, the juice of 2 
lemons, and the rind of 1 chopped fine, J lb. of mixed 
spice, 2 glasses of brandy, 2 oz. of citron, and 2 of 
candied lemon peel. Mix well together in a jar. It 
will improve by lying a few days. Use pufF paste. 

Blanc Mange. — Boil \\ oz. of isinglass, 3 oz. of sweet 
and 6 oz. of bitter almonds, (well pounded,) in a quart 
of milk. Sweeten, strain through a napkin, and put in 
the mould. 

Fruit and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold boiled turkey, scalloped oysters. (Dry the oys- 
ters with a cloth, and spread in layers in a deep dish, 
sprinkling each layer with pepper and salt, butter, and 
bread crumbs or rolled cracker. Bake 20 minutes.) 
Blufiins, bread and butter, raspberry jam, Madeira buns 
(beat' 8 oz. of butter to a cream, and add 2 eggs ; take 
14 oz. of flour, G of white sugar, \ nutmeg, one teaspoon- 



30 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

ful ginger, and a spoonful of carraway seeds. Mix and 
work into the butter, and beat % an hour. Add a wine- 
glass of sherry, and bake quick in patty pans). Tea. 



SUNDAY. 
Breakfast. — Liver hash, cold grouse, chipped pota- 
toes, gems of cornmeal, brown bread milk toast, buck- 
wheat cakes. (To 3 pts. of buckwheat flour mixed into 
a batter, add one teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, and 
one of tartaric acid dissolved in water. Bake at once.) 
Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Bean Soup. — Soak a pint of small white beans over 
night, boil slowly 3 hours, adding a small piece of ham 
when half done. Season well, and strain. 

Hard-shell Orals. 

Roast Beef with rice, sweet potatoes, and baked 
tomatoes. 

Potted Pigeons. — Stew the gizzards and livers, chop- 
ped fine ; add grated* ham, bread crumbs, and herbs. 
Make into a forcemeat, rolling it round the yolk of a 
hard-boiled egg, and stuff the pigeons. Put into a stew- 
pan with water and a little butter ; add gravy of the 
gizzards, a little flour, and an onion. Stew gently until 
done, adding a glass of wine. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 31 



Dessert. 



German Puffs. — Put % lb. of butter into £ a pt. of 
milk, and when it boils add a cup of flour ; beat well 
together, and when cold add 6 eggs well beaten, with | 
cup of sugar, and grated lemon. Bake in a moderate 
oven. 

'Pomme Mange. — Peel and core 1 lb. of apples, and 
add to i lb. of sugar and h pt. of water. Boil till 
quite stiff, with some lemon peel. Put in a mould. 

Oranges, bananas, and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold lamb, smoked salmon, broiled. Graham dry 
toast, cheese, milk biscuit, preserved grapes, rice cake 
(1 lb. ground rice, do lump sugar sifted, 8 eggs well 
beaten, the rind of a lemon. Beat all half an hour ; 
and bake 1^ hours). Tea. 



MARCH, 



MONDAY. 



Breakfast. — Boiled eggs, toast, breaded lamb chops, 
fried potatoes, pickled tripe, corn bread, rolls. Tea 
and coffee. 



32 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 



Dinner. 

Soiq) a la Julienne. — Cut in pieces size of dice 1 
head of celery, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, some small button 
onions, heads of asparagus (dried) and hearts of lettuce. 
Boil slowly, and add to a beef broth. Use neither 
pepper or catsup. 

Blackfish, boiled, melted butter. 

Roast Veal, with potatoes stewed, cauliflower, and 
tomatoes. 

Toad-in-a-liole. — Make a common batter of eggs, flour, 
and milk, rather thick, and put in tfie centre a fowl boned 
and stuffed with forcemeat ; cover entirely with batter, 
and bake it. (Any kind of meat may be dressed in the 
same manner.) 

Dessert. 

Pound Cake Pudding. — One pt. flour, 1 cup milk, do. 
sugar, do. butter, 2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, sifted 
in the flour, 1 of soda (dissolved in the milk), 3 eggs. 
Bake 1 hour, and serve with wine sauce. 

Rasplerry Cream. — Put i oz. isinglass, dissolved in 
water, into a pint of cream, sweetened to the taste ; boil 
it. When nearly cold, lay some raspberry jam in a glass 
dish, and pour the cream over it. 

Bananas, pecans, and figs. 



what shall we eat? 33 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold Turkey, pickled salmon, fried clams, crackers 
and cheese, toast, peach sauce. Prune tartlets. 



TUESDAY. 



Breakfast. — Poached eggs on toast, hashed veal, cold 
snipe, chipped potatoes, Graham rolls, bread, chocolate 
and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Veal Broth. — 4 lbs. scrag of veal, and a bunch of 
sweet herbs, simmer in 6 qts. of water ; when half done 
skim, and add an onion. Add 2 oz. rice, parsley, celery, 
pepper, and salt. 

Fresh Mackerel, broiled. 

Boiled Leg of Lamb. — Caper sauce, with fried pars- 
nips, hominy, sweet corn, and potatoes. 

Miroton of Veal. — Chop very fine cold dressed veal 
and ham, mix with a slice of bread soaked in milk, and 
squeezed dry, 2 onions chopped and browned, salt, pepper, 
and a little cream. Put all into a stewpan until hot, 
and well mixed, then add 1 or 2 eggs, butter a mould, 
and bake until it is brown. Serve with fresh gravy. 
2* 



34 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

Dessert. 

Winileg Pudding. — Pound and sift 5 crackers, and 
mix with a cup of boiling water, one of sugar, and the 
juice and peel of a lemon. Bake in a crust. 

Orange Custard. — The juice of 6 oranges, strained, 
and sweetened with loaf sugar; stir over a slow fire till 
the sugaf is dissolved, taking off the scum; when nearly 
cold add the yolks of 6 eggs well beaten, and a pint of 
cream (or milk.) Stir over the fire till it thickens, and 
serve in glasses. Double the quantity if required. 

Filberts, oranges, and raisins. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Broiled oysters, ham cake, cold lamb, rolls, wheat 
biscuit, (1 pt. sour milk, 1 teaspoonful soda, do. salt, £ 
cup molasses, thicken with wheat meal. Take out 
enough for a biscuit with a spoon, and roll gently in 
flour.) Dried apple sauce, Apees cake, (1 lb. flour, ^ 
lb. butter, do. powdered sugar, ^ glass of wine, a tea- 
spoonful cinnamon, cloves, and allspice, 3 of carraway 
seeds,) tea, and chocolate. 



WEDNESDAY. 
Breakfast. — Omelet with parsley, cold boiled ham, 
mutton chops, stewed potatoes, steam toast, corn bread, 
tea and coffee, rolls. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 35 



Dinner. 



a la Flamande. — Take 2- carrots, turnips, and 
onions, a small quantity of celery and lettuce, shred them 
in pieces, and stew slowly till tender with a teacup of 
gravy and a piece of butter. Then add a qt. of any sort 
of broth, and stew gently for an hour with salt, mace, a 
little sugar, and cayenne. Mix the yolks of 3 eggs well 
with i pt. of cream, (or milk,) and stir in just before it 
is served. 

Smelts. 

Roast Beef. — With beets, mashed potatoes, stewed 
celery, and canned tomatoes. 

Oyster Patties. 

Dessert. 



Baked Indian Pudding. — Take 6 eggs to 1 qt. milk, 
and 3 tablespoonfuls of meal. Bake \ an hour. Boiled 
molasses sauce. 

Brandy Cherries. 

Macaroons. 

Oranges, anjl candied fruits. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Game pate, veal cake, sardines, waffles, bread, jelly 
cake, grape jelly, plum cake, chocolate. 



36 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

THURSDAY. 

Breakfast. — Ham and eggs, cold beef, pickled pigs' 
feet, buckwheat cakes, rolls, cream toast Graham, tea and 
coffee. 

Dinner. 

Turtle Maigre Soup. — Use the turtle flesh (preserved 
in jars in a state of jelly) stewed up in a vegetable, or 
fish stock, instead of meat, in sufficient quantity to make 
it limpid. Season with Madeira wine, lemon, thyme, 
marjoram, and parsley ; also nutmeg, allspice, mace, 
cloves, pepper, and salt, £ teaspoonful of curry powder, 
and a few truffles. 

Fried Porgies. 

Roast Canvass-iack Ducks, with onions, sweet corn, 
carrots, and potatoes. 

Fried Siveetbreads. 

Dessert. 
Apple Pie. 

Champagne Cream. — Beat the yolks of 6 eggs with 
powdered sugar till stiff, pour over it gradually, stewing 
all the time, a bottle of champagne cream. Cider will 
also do. 

Bananas, oranges, and pecans. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Cold chicken, Pate de fois gras, olives, steam toast, 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 37 

Graham bread, French bread, apple jelly, (pour 1 qt. of 
apple juice on 1 lb. fresh apples pared and cored, simmer 
till well broken, strain off the juice, and let it stand till 
cold. Then add 2 oz. isinglass, 9 oz. sugar, 2 lemons, 
rind and juice, and whites and shells of. 8 eggs. Let it 
boil J- of an hour, strain, and put in a mould), hot gin- 
gerbread, (1 pt. molasses, do. sour milk, f of a cup but- 
ter, a spoonful of ginger, and a little salt. Mix thick as 
cake), tea. 



FRIDAY. 



Br eaJcfast.— Lamb chops, clam fritters, scrambled 
eggs, milk toast, corn bread, rolls, tea, and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Oyster Soap, — Given in January. 

Boiled Halibut, melted butter. 

Curry of Chichen, with rice, squash, and turnips. 

Cut up a raw chicken, put it in a stewpan with 2 oz. 
of butter, ^ an onion sliced thin, a few sprigs of parsley 
and thyme, and 2 oz. lean ham; let the whole stew 
gently a few minutes. Add a large spoonful curry 
powder, and a small one of flour. Shake the whole 5 
minutes over the fire, then put to it a pint of gravy or 



38 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

water ; let the whole simmer till the chicken is done, 
then take it out, and rub the sauce through a sieve, boil 
it up, skim, and season well. 
Veal Patties. 



Miroton of Apples. — Scald the apples, reduce to a 
pulp, and pile high on the dish in which they are to be 
served ; boil 1 teaspoonful of grated lemon-peel, and 6 
or 8 lumps of sugar in a teacup of water ; then add the 
yolks of 3 eggs, and the white of 1, |- oz. butter,.a spoon- 
ful of flour, and 1 of brandy, mix the whole over the fire, 
and stir quite smooth. Pour it on the apples, then 
whisk the whites of the other 2 eggs to a froth, put 
them over the miroton just as it is going into the oven, 
and sift some sugar over it. Bake 10 or 15 minutes in 
a slow oven. 

Rhenish Cream. — Dissolve 1 oz. ishoglass in 1 pt. hot 
water, let it stand till cold ; take the yolks of 5 eggs, the 
juice of 3 lemons, -| pt. white wine, -J lb. lump sugar. 
Stir all together, and let them boil gently till thick 
enough to put into moulds. 

Dates, oranges, and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold stewed pigeons, cold ham, pickled pig's head. 
muffins, flour griddle-cakes, green grape preserves, feather 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT t 39 

cake (3 cups raised dough, 2 of suger, 2 eggs, | cup 
warm milk, 1 cup butter, 1 teaspoonful soda, grate a 
lemon rind, stand near the fire till light), tea, and choco- 
late. 



SATURDAY. 

Breakfast. — Fresh cod fried, fried eggp, pickled 
tongue, corn beef hash, potatoes k la maitre d' hotelj 
raised biscuit, toast, tea, and coffee. 

Dinner. " 

Sjprijig Soup. — Take all kinds of green vegetables, 
asparagus tops, spinach, lettuce, onions, etc., and stew 
thick in any good broth. 

- Baked Mackerel. — Take off the heads, clean the fish, 
and replace the roes, rub with salt, pepper,' and allspice. 
Pack the fish close in a deep baking-pan, cover with 
equal parts cold vinegar and water, and bake 1 hour in 
a slow oven. 

Mutton Kebolhed. — Cut a loin of mutton into steaks, 
take off the fat and skin ; mix a grated nutmeg with a 
little salt, pepper, crumbs, and herbs ; dip the steaks 
into the yolks of 3 eggs beaten, and sprinkle the mixture 
over them. Then place the steaks together as they were 
before cut, tie, and fasten on a spit, and roast before a 
quick fire. Set a dish under it, and baste with the 



40 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

liquor and a piece of butter. When done lay in a deep 
dish, and put over it, | pt. gravy, 2 spoonfuls ketchup, 
and a teaspoonful of flour, first boiled and skimmed. 

Lobster Salad. — Mash with a wooden spoon the yolks 
of 9 eggs boiled hard, mix with \ pt. sweet oil, (or cream) 
add 1 gill mixed mustard, \ teaspoon cayenne, and 1 
teaspoon salt. Cut the lobster fine with lettuce, and a 
few minutes before it is to be eaten, mix the dressing 
with it thoroughly. 

Peach Pie. 

Arrowroot Padding. — 1 spoonful of powder mixed 
in 2 of cold milk ; pour on it 1 pt. boiling milk, in 
which have been dissolved 4 oz. butter and 2 of su- 
gar, stirring well. Add a little nutmeg and 5 eggs, 
bake | an hour in a dish lined with paste. 

Oranges, bananas, and Madeira nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Potted veal, stewed lobster, cream toast, crackers 
and cheese, canned pears, rolls, tea. Fancy cakes. 



SUNDAY. 



Breakfast. — Beefsteak, with mushroom sauce, cold 
potted pigeons, corn mufiins, steam toast, boiled eggs, 
cold bread. Tea and coffee. 



9 what shall we eat? 41 

Dinner. 

Scots' Kail Soup. — 4 lbs. mutton to 1 gallon cold wa- 
ter, and 2 oz. pearl barley ; stew until tender, with 2 
onions. Have ready the hearts of 2 cabbages chopped 
fine, put into the broth, and boil uncovered till reduced 
to 2 qts. Add only pepper and salt. 

Flounders Fried. 

Roast Partridges. — With spinach, salsify, and pota- 
toes. 

LamVs Head. — Parboil, and rub with the yolk of an 
egg, cover thickly with herbs, crumbs of bread, butter 
and put in the oven. Mince the heart and liver, stew 
in a good gravy, adding a spoonful of ketchup. Make 
some forcemeat balls, place the mince in a dish with the 
head upon it, and garnish with the balls, sliced lemon, 
and pickles. 

Dessert. 

Cottage Pudding. — Break 1 egg in a pan, add a cup 
sugar, 1 teaspoon butter, 2 cream of. tartar, 1 soda, a cup 
of milk, and 3 of flour. Pare and slice a lemon, and 
stir into the batter. Bake § of an hour, and eat with 
cold sauce. 

Prune Tarts. 

Figs, oranges, and nuts. 



42 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? % 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold chicken pie, sardines, cold lamb, hot biscuits, 
cream toast, crackers and cheese, apple jelly, oleycooks 
(from Washington Irving, — 1 pt. milk, \ lb. butter, 2 
eggs, 1 tablespoonful brewer's yeast, £ cup sugar, a little 
salt and nutmeg. Stand over night till very light, and 
fry in boiling lard.) Tea and chocolate. 



+++ 



APKIL. 
MONDAY. 

Breakfast. — Fresh shad broiled, poached eggs, corn 
bannock, cold roast veal, dry toast, rice cakes, rolls and 
bread. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Soup a la Bisque. — J lb. rice, and 12 crabs, (soft 
shell) ; boil in good broth, and when done pound, and rub 
through a sieve. Fill the heads of the crabs with fish 
stuffing, and add a little butter. 

Bluefish Broiled. 

Roast Veal, stuffed, with Bermuda potatoes, raw to- 
matoes dressed, and asparagus. 

Bolster Plain. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 43 



Dessert. 



. Jelly Tarts of Puff Paste. 

Cocoanut Pudding. — Grate a cocoanut after taking off 
the brown skin, mix with 3 oz. white powdered sugar, and 
£ peel of a lemon ; mix well with milk, put in a tin lined 
with paste, and bake not too brown. 
Bananas, and nut*. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Veal cake, cold tongue, Graham dry toast, preserved 
pears, rolls, crackers and cheese, cup cake with almonds. 



TUESDAY. 



Breakfast. — Veal hash, omelet, stewed potatoes, 
wheat gems, brown bread cream toast, rolls. Tea, and 
coffee, potted fish. 

Dinner. 

Black Bean Soup. — Thicken a strong beef broth, 
strained, with black beans. 

Baled Shad. 

Roast Lamb, mint sauce, with baked potatoes, aspar- 
agus, and spinach. 

Pigeon Pie. — Cut a nice rump steak into small pieces, 
and cover the bottom of a dish, add seasoning, and sweet 



44 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

herbs. Boil 2 eggs hard, chop the livers fine, add bread 
crumbs, butter, and seasoning, and stuff the pigeons. 
Put in with the steak, cover with water or gravy, and 
bake with a paste. 

Dessert 

Apple Dumplings. — 1 large apple, quartered, cored, 
and put together, covered with a thin paste, and boiled 
till done. As many as are needed, serve with hot sauce. 

Chocolate Pudding. — Boil 1 pt. milk, dissolve in it 
1 oz. of chocolate, sweeten with loaf sugar, add the }*olks 
of 8, and the whites of 4 eggs well beaten ; strain, and 
pour into a mould, buttered and papered ; steam for \ 
an hour ; let it settle for 10 minutes, and serve with the 
followicg sauce : boil J stick vanilla in 1 pt. milk till 
it is reduced one half; strain, sweeten, and thicken with 
.arrowroot. 

Figs, and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Ham sandwiches, (chop the ham fine, and season 
with mustard, pepper, and salt, spread between thin 
slices buttered bread,) cold game, minced codfish, rolls, 
toast, stewed prunes, kringles. (Beat well yolks of 8, 
and whites of 2 eggs, mix with 4 oz. butter, warmed, 1 
lb. flour, and 4 oz. sugar to a paste. Boll into thick 
biscuits, and bake on tin plates. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 45 

WEDNESDAY. 

Breakfast— Blue fish, scrambled eggs, baked pota- 
toes, cold chicken, Indian griddle-cakes, roils, tea and 
coffee. 

Dinner. 

Turnip Soup. — Scrape fine 6 large turnips into 2 qts. 
strong beef soup, with 2 onions fried in butter. Let it 
simmer slowly, then rub through a sieve till smooth. 

Boiled Halibut, oyster sauce. 

Roast Beef, with Yorkshire pudding, and vegetables. 
1 pt. boiling milk to a small loaf of bread, crumbed 
fine, 4 eggs, a little salt and flour. Bake in a tin under 
the drippings of the beef. 

Matelote of Fish. — Cut into small pieces any white 
fish, put into a stewpan with 1 oz. of butter to brown, 
adding £ pt. wine, do. good gravy, spice, and seasoning, 
a sliced carrot and turnip. Take the fish out carefully, 
keep hot, and thicken the gravy with butter and flour, 
adding 6 button onions which have been scalded, the same 
of mushrooms and oysters, lemon-juice, and cayenne. 
Pour boiling hot on the fish. 



Dried Apple Pie. 

Rice Custards. — Sweeten a pini of milk, and boil, 
sifting in ground rice till thick; take off the fire, and 



46 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

add 3 eggs, beaten; stir again over the fire for three 
minutes, and put into cups that have lain in cold water 
without wiping. When cold turn out, and pour soft 
custard around them, with currant jelly on the top of 
each one. 

Prunes, oranges, and candied fruits. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Mutton kidneys, fried. (Gut in thin slices, flour 
and fry quickly, serve in good gravy). Roast beef de- 
viled, sardines, apple fritters, (yolks of 6 eggs, whites of 
3 ; beat well and strain, then add 1 pt. milk, a little 
salt, | nutmeg grated, and a glass of brandy. Mix into 
a thick batter with flour, slice the apples in round, taking 
out the core, dust with sugar, (let them stand an hour or 
two) and dip each slice in batter, frying in boiling lard.) 
Rolls, toast, grape jelly, chocolate. 



THURSDAY. 

Breakfast. — Codfish balls, fried Indian pudding, 
boiled eggs, cold lamb, milk toast, rolls, tea, and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Chicken Sgkj). — Boiled, strained, with rice and sea- 
soning. 



Spanish Mackerel. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 47 

Hoast Ducks, with asparagus, lettuce, and tomatoes, 
currant jell j. 

Breaded Veal Cutlets. 

Dessert 

Brandy Budding. — Line a mould with stoned raisins 
or dried cherries, then with thin slices of French roll, 
next to which put macaroons, then again fruit, rolls, and 
cakes, till the mould be full, sprinkling in by degrees 2 
wine-glasses of brandy. Beat 4 eggs, put to a pint of 
milk or cream, lightly sweetened, \ a" nutmeg, and the 
rind of \ a lemon grated. Let the. liquid sink into the 
solid part, then tie tight with a floured cloth, and boil 1 
hour. Keep the mould right side up. Serve with sauce. 

Cream Fritters. — One and a half pts. of flour to 1 
pt. of milk ; beat to a froth with 6 eggs ; add 1 pt. 
cream, £ nutmeg, a teaspoonful salt, mix well, and fry in 
small cakes. 

Bananas and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Roast oysters, cold miroton of veal, minced fresh fish, 
Boston crackers, with anclbvy sauce, (soak the crackers 
split in cold water, butter and spread on the sauce 
thickly.) Muffins, bread, quince marmalade, sponge 
cake, (1 coffee-cup sugar, do. flour, 4 eggs.) Tea and 
cocoa. 



48 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

FRIDAY. 

Breakfast. — Shad roes fried brown, omelet with pars- 
ley, lamb chops, chipped potatoes, brown bread, rolls, 
tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

New England Chowder. — Fry thin slices of pork in a 
deep pot; lay in the head and shoulders of a fresh cod, 
cut in pieces, put in layers, the pork between ; season 
with pepper, salt, and a few cloves ; fill up with water 
and boil ; when nearly done add a pint of milk, and 6 
Boston crackers split open. 

Broiled Shad. 

Roast Chickens, with potatoes, asparagus, and toma- 
toes. 

Ragout of Veal. — Fry 2 lbs. of veal till brown, then 
put into a stew-pan with 6 onions, pepper and mixed 
spice, add boiling water, and let it stew slowly for 4 
hours. Serve with pickled walnuts, or capers, in the 
gravy. 

Desm^t. 

Almond Pudding. — Two and-a-half oz. white bread 
crumbs, steeped in a pint of cream, (or milk) \ pt. 
blanched almonds pounded to a paste, with a little 
water, yolks of 6 eggs and whites of 3, beaten ; mix all 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 49 

together, and add 3 oz. sugar, and 1 oz. beaten butter. 
Stir over the fire till thick, and bake in a puff paste. 

Blueberry Pie. — Use canned fruit. 

Oranges, almonds, and raisins. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Clam fritters, cold tongue, potted fish, stewed pota- 
toes, hot brown bread, steam toast, preserved plums, buns. 



SATURDAY.. 
Breakfast. — Fresh trout, fried chicken, with cream, 
water cresses, scrambled eggs, Graham biscuit, corn 
bread, rolls, tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Mullagatawnee Soup. — Six onions, and \ lb. butter, 
pound well, and add 3 spoonfuls curry powder, a little 
cayenne and salt. Beat all together with some India 
pickle and flour, and stir into 3 qts. of strong beef soup. 
Let it boil half an hour, rub through a sieve, and serve 
with rice. 

Baked, Bluefish. 

Beef a la mode, with turnips, carrots and potatoes. 
A round of beef, weighing 20 lbs., rub with salt, and tie 
with tape; chop the marrow from the bone, ^ lb. suet, 
3 



50 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

herbs, thyme, and parsley ; add 2 grated nutmegs, £ oz. 
cloves, do. mace, tablespoon pepper, do. salt, and 2 
glasses Madeira wine; cut 1 lb. pork in small pieces, 
make incisions in the beef and slip in, then lay in a deep 
dish, and cover with the seasoning. Bake or stew slowly 
(with water in the dish) 12 hours. If to be eaten hot, 
begin the night before. Add wine and a beaten egg in 
the gravy. 

Sweetbreads, fried. 

Dessert. 

Bread Pudding. — One pt. bread-crumbs, covered with 
milk, add cinnamon, lemon-peel, and grated nutmeg ; put 
them on a gentle lire until the crumbs are well soaked. 
Take out the cinnamon, and lemon-peel, beat the milk 
and crumbs together, add 4 eggs well beaten, 1 oz. but- 
ter, 2 oz. sugar, \ lb. currants, and boil it one hour. 

Pine-apples, and macaroons. 

Oranges, and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Oyster pie, cold corned beef, eggs on toast, cranberry 
jelly, biscuit, Turk's cap, sponge cake. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT t 51 



SUNDAY. 



Breakfast. — Veal chops, with tomato sauce, fried po- 
tatoes, cold ham, poached eggs, corn bannock, bread, 

tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Oyster Soup. 

Fried Perch. 

Boiled Chicken, with potatoes, asparagus, macaroni, 
and rice. 

Broiled Pigeons.- — Cut the pigeons down the back, 
flatten, and truss. Egg them both sides, season, dip in 
chopped herbs and crumbs, a little warmed butter 
sprinkled over them, and broil a light brown. 

Dessert. 

Tipsy Pudding. — Lay in a dish slices of sponge or 
pound cake, well soaked in brandy, and pour over them 
a rich soft custard. 

Jam Tarts. 

Pine-apples and oranges. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold a la mode beef, broiled ham, mashed potato 
cakes fried, cheese, crackers, preserves, pound cake with 
fruit. 



52 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 



JVLASY. 



MONDAY. 



Breakfast. — Fried perch, potted game, water-cresses, 
clam fritters, boiled eggs, rolls, bread, tea, and coffee. 



Di 



NNER. 



Tomato Soup. — Cut up 2 onions, and fry them in 
"butter ; when the onions are brown, add to them a dozen 
tomatoes, from which you have squeezed the water. Put 
in a pot with a turnip, 2 lettuces, a piece of lean ham, a 
stick of celery, some herbs, spice, and a piece of butter. 
Let it simmer for h an hour, stirring occasionally, then 
fill up with stock, and allow it to boil gently 2 hours. 
Put in 2 French rolls crumbed, and when done rub 
through a colander. 

Broiled Salmon. 

Leg of Lamb boiled, melted butter, with asparagus, 
potatoes, lettuce, and tomatoes. 

Sard-Shell Crabs. 



Soft Custards, baked in Paste. 

Montagu Pudding. — Half lb. chopped suet, 4 table- 
spoonfuls of flour, 4 eggs, and 4 spoonfuls of milk mixed 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 53 

into a batter; add -| lb. stoned raisins, a little sugar, 
and boil 4 hours. 

Pine-apple, bananas, and nuts. 

Tea, or, Lunch. 

Fried shad roes, game pate, German toast. (Take the 
remainder of a fricassee or ragout, chop fine, add a few 
herbs with parsley, and mix with 1 or 2 eggs, according 
to quantity. Put it on the fire with gravy, and let it 
reduce or thicken. When cold, spread thickly on toast, 
brush lightly with beaten egg, sprinkle bread-crumbs on 
each piece, and bake in the oven.) Rolls, bread, sliced 
pine-apple with sugar, bread cake. (Take raised dough 
for one loaf, and knead well into it 2 oz. butter, do. 
sugar, and 8 oz. currants. Warm the butter in a cup of 
milk.) Tea and chocolate. 



TUESDAY. 



Breakfast. — Broiled spring chicken, fried potatoes, 
1 pigeon pie, brown bread, raised biscuit. Tea and 



cold pigeon pie 
coffee. 



Dinner. 



Veal Broth. — Stew a knuckle of veal, 5 lbs. in 3 qts. 
water, with an onion, 2 blades of mace, a head of celery, 



54 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

parsley, pepper and salt. Let it simmer gently till re- 
duced to 2 qts. Take out the meat, and serve separately ; 
add 2 oz. boiled rice to the broth. 

Baked stuffed Shad. 

Breaded Lamb Chops, with asparagus, potatoes, and 
green peas. 



Cold Tongue. 



Dessert. 



Rhubarb" Pie. 

Flemish Cream. — Dissolve ^ oz. isinglass in a pint of 
water, strain it, and add to \ pt. cream. Add a glass of 
brandy, color with currant jelly, whisk to a froth, and 
put into a mould. 

Madeira nuts and oranges. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold lamb, lobster salad, sardines, vegetable toast. 
(Take stewed vegetables, and make it into a puree ; add 
more seasoning, the yolk of an egg, and thicken over the 
fire. Spread on toast, add bread-crumbs, brush with egg, 
and bake.) Green gage preserves, buns, (| lb. flour, £ 
lb. sugar, 1 lb. butter, melted in a little warm water, 6 
spoonfuls rose water, and -| pt. yeast. Make a light 
dough, and add caraway seeds.) Tea and cocoa. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 55 

WEDNESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Veal chops breaded, broiled shad, stewed 
potatoes, pickled tongue, water-cresses, rice cake, 
Graham biscuit, bread. Tea and coffee. 

'Dinner. 

White Soup. — Boil fowls to a jelly, pound the meat 
in a mortar, and add to the broth. Take 2 qts. of this 
stock to 4 of water, season, and thicken with 1 lb. rice 
flour. 

Stewed Lobster. 

Chicken Pot Pie. — Cut the chicken in small pieces, 
stew slowly, and thicken the gravy with stirred butter 
and flour. Make a paste of cream tartar and soda, put 
on the top, cover tight, and stew \ an hour. 

Boiled Corned beef. 

Dessert. 

Cocoanut Pie. — Grate the white part, mix with milk, 
and boil slowly ten minutes ; allow 1 qt. milk to 1 lb. 
cocoanut, 8 eggs, 4 spoonfuls sugar, a glass of wine, a 
smaM cracker pounded fine, and 2 spoonfuls melted butter. 
Bake in deep plates lined with puff paste. 

Dutch Butter. — Two oz. isinglass dissolved in a pint 
of water, with a lemon peel. Add a pint white wine, 



56 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

the juice of 3 lemons, yolks of 8 eggs well beaten, 
sweeten, make quite hot, and strain into moulds. 
Almonds, raisins, and bananas. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold roast veal, corn pone, sweetbreads fried, cheese 
and assorted crackers, preserved ginger, Queen Cake, (1 
lb. powdered sugar, 1 lb. butter, 14 oz. flour, 10 eggs, 1 
wine-glass brandy and wine mixed, 12 drops essence of 
lemon, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon and cloves, and 1 nutmeg.) 



THURSDAY. 

Breakfast. — Boiled ham and poached eggs, chipped 
potatoes, cold roast beef, corn bread, water cresses, dry 
toast, fried shad roes. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Sago Soup. — Any white soup thickened with sago. 

Broiled Fresh Mackerel. 

Roast Lamb, mint sauce, with potatoes, spinach, and 
raw tomatoes. 

Beef Collops. — Cut the inside of a sirloin into circu- 
lar shapes, the size and thickness of a quarter of a dollar, 
flour, and fry them ; sprinkle with pepper, salt, chopped 
parsley ; make a gravy, and serve with tomato sauce. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 5*7 

Dessert. 

Tapioca Pudding. 

Brown Bread Ice. — Grate stale brown bread, and 
soak in cream ; sweeten, and freeze. 
Bananas and prunes. 

Tea, oh Lunch. 

Ham toast. (Grate or pound cold ham, mix with 
the yolk of an egg and a little cream, warm over the fire, 
and serve hot on toast,) corned beef hash, corn bread, 
crackers, and cheese, stewed prunes, steam toast, maca- 
roons. Tea. 



FRIDAY. 



Breakfast. — Broiled shad, stewed clams, pickled pig's 
head, corn muffins, hashed lamb, bread, rolls. Coffee. 

Dinner. 

Clam Soup. 

Bluefish) Broiled. 

Stewed Veal, with asparagus, spinach, and potatoes. 

Lobster Salad. — Dress like chicken salad. 

m Bessert. 

Gloucester Pudding. — Take 3 eggs, same weight in 
3* * 



58 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

butter and flour each, 5 oz. sugar, and 12 bitter almonda 
powdered, beat well, and bake i an hour in cups. 

Jelly Tarts. 

Fruit and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold boiled ham, raw oysters, sardines, muffins, 
toast, preserved damsons, black plum cake. (1 lb. flour, 
do butter, do. white sugar, 12 eggs, 2 lbs. raisins, 2 lbs. 
currants, 2 tablespoonfuls mixed spice, 2 nutmegs pow- 
dered, a glass wine, brandy, and rose water, and 1 lb. 
citron.) Tea and chocolate. 



SATURDAY. 
Breakfast. — Minced veal on toast, cold birds, gems, 
boiled eggs, brown bread. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Beef Soup with Vermicelli. 

Bass, Boiled. 

Boast Beef, with potatoes, spinach, and green peas. 

Stewed Pigeons. 

Dessert. 

Cranberry and Rice Jelly. — Strain the berries after 
boiling, and thicken with ground rice, sweeten, boil gently* 
and serve with cream. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 59 

Snoiv Cream. — Put to a quart of cream (or milk) the 
whites of 3 eggs well beaten, 4 spoonfuls sweet wine, 
sugar to taste, and whip to a froth. 

Pine-apple and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Cold quail, roast beef, Anchovy toast, Turk's cap, oys- 
ter patties, waffles/ rolls, quince jelly, sponge cake. 



SUNDAY. 

Breakfast. — Omelet, cold tongue, pickled salmon, 
brown bread, milk toast, broiled tripe, biscuit, bread. 
Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Spring Soup. — Strong veal or mutton broth, thickened 
with greens, asparagus, etc. 

Trout 

Roast Ducks, with peas, asparagus, and rice. 

Beefsteak, with Mushrooms. 

Cold Sam. 

Dessert 

Balewell Pudding. — The yolks of 4 eggs and whites of 
2 eggs, with \ lb. powdered sugar, and \ clarified butter. 
"When well mixed, stir over the fire, till it thickens. 
Line a dish with puff paste, and put in a layer of candied 



60 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

peel about an inch thick ; then pour the mixture on it, 
and bake in a slow oven. 

Italian Cream. — Juice of a lemon, grated rind of 2, 
and 1 qt. cream. Stir over the fire till thick. 

Chocolate bonbons and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Omelet with parsley, clam fritters, milk toast, pate 
de foie gras, cold meat, veal cake, pound cake, preserved 
cherries. Tea. 



JTJI^E, 



MONDAY. 
Breakfast. — Fried trout, pickled tongue, potted game, 
steam toast, Graham biscuit, boiled eggs, cucumbers. 
Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Green Pea Soap. — Boil 1 qt. fresh peas in salt water, 
with a handful of parsley and sorrel, until perfectly ten- 
der. Drain, and pound in a mortar, and mix gradually 
into veal or beef broth. Season with pepper and salt, 
fry some boiled onions and lettuce, with bread cut into 
dice, and put into the soup before serving, also a few 
heads of boiled asparagus. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 61 

Boiled Salmon, melted butter. 

Broiled Chielcen, with peas, string beans, and potatoes. 

Fricandels of Veal. — Chop the fat and lean of 3 lbs. 
of a loin of veal very fine ; then soak a French roll in 
some milk ; beat 3 eggs ; add pepper, salt, and mace. 
Make the mixture somewhat in the shape of a small 
chicken, rub it with egg and bread-crumbs, "fry until 
brown, pour off the fat, boil water in the pan, and stew 
the fricandels in this gravy ; two will make a handsome 
dish ; thicken the gravy. 

Dessert. 

Macaroni Pudding. — Simmer 1 or 2 oz. of pipe maca- 
roni in a pint of milk, with a bit of lemon and cinnamon, 
till tender ; put it into a dish with milk, 2 or 3 yolks of 
eggs, but only 1 white ; sugar, nutmeg, a spoonful of 
peach water, and £ glass raisin wine. Bake with paste 
around the edges. 

Bohemian Cream. — Rub a pint of fresh strawberries 
through a sieve, add 6 oz. powdered sugar, the juice 
of a lemon, 1£ oz. isinglass dissolved in | pt. water. 
Mix all together, and set on the ice, stirring till it 
begins to set. Whip a pint of cream to. a froth, and stir 
into the strawberries, letting the mould remain on ice till 
wanted. Then put it into warm water for an instant, 
and turn out. 

Cherries and nuts. 



62 WHAT SHALL WE EAT f 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Radishes, cucumbers, cold veal, potted fish, broiled 
smoked salmon, muffins, rolls, sponge cake, strawberries. 
Tea. 



TUESDAY. 

Breahfast. — Cold birds, omelet, minced salt fish, 
cream toast, radishes, water-cresses, rolls, tea and coffee, 
strawberries. 

Dinner. 

Gumbo Soup. 

Trout. 

Roast Veal, with asparagus, lettuce, peas, and pota- 
toes. 

Pigeons, with Peas. — Put the pigeons into a stewpan 
with a little butter, just to stiffen ; then take them out, 
put some small slices of bacon into the pan, give a fine 
color, draw them, and add a spoonful of flour to the but- 
ter ; then put in the pigeons and bacon, moisten by de- 
grees with gravy, and bring it to the consistency of 
sauce ; boil it ; season with parsley, young onions, and let 
it simmer ; when half done put in a quart of peas ; 
shake them often ; and when ready thicken the peas with 
flour and butter. There should be no gravy left. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 63 



Quaking Pudding. — Scald 1 qt. cream (or milk) ; 
and when almost cold add 4 eggs well beaten, 1£ 
spoonfuls flour, some nutmeg, and sugar; tie it close 
in a buttered cloth; boil 1 hour, and serve with 
wine sauce. 

Creme au Marasquin. — Whip a pint of cream until 
it th'ickens, add powdered sugar, a glass of maraschino, 
and 1 oz. isinglass dissolved in water. The latter 
must be liquid, but cold. 

Strawberries and cream, nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Cold boiled ham, cucumbers, dried beef with cream, 
biscuit, rolls, strawberries, bread, cake. Tea and cho- 
colate. 



WEDNESDAY. 
Breakfast. — Minced veal, pickled shad roes, potted 
game, corn muffins, dry toast, radishes, rolls, scrambled 
eggs. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 
Mutton Broth. 
Baked Pike, caper sauce. 

Mutton Pilhn, with peas, beans, and potatoes. Take 
£ lb. neck of mutton, boil it well, then cut it into small 



64 . WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

pieces, and fry it in butter ; then let it simmer \ an hour 
with 2 cups boiled rice, a few clones, a little cinnamon, 
and some cardamoms. 
Squabs, roasted. 

Dessert. 

Plum Pudding, not rich. — Four oz. each of grated 
bread, suet, and stoned raisins, mix with 2 well-beaten 
eggs, 4 spoonfuls of milk, and a little salt. Boil 4 
hours, A spoonful of brandy, sugar, and nutmeg, in 
melted butter, may be used as sauce. 

Masplerry Cream. — Boil 1 oz. isinglass in lh pts. 
milk; strain through a hair sieve; boil 1^ pts. cream; 
when cool add - 1 pt. raspberry juice to it ; then add the 
milk, stir well, sweeten, and add a glass of brandy. 
Whisk it till nearly cold, then put in a mould. 

Strawberries and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold tongue, miroton of veal, cucumbers ; radishes, 
strawberries, pound cake, waffles, toast, rolls, tea and 
chocolate. 



THURSDAY. 
Breakfast. — Boiled chicken, clam fritters, muffins, 
steam toast, hot brown bread, cucumbers, strawberries, 
tea and coffee, boiled eggs. 



what shall we eat ? . 65 

Dinner. 

Tomato Soup. 

Lobster. 

Roast Beef, with peas, linaa beans, and potatoes. 

Rissoles. — Pound cold meat, season, and mix with. a 
little good gravy and butter. Roll paste into oval 
pieces, lay a spoonful on one end, double it over, press 
the edges together, and scallop them. Brush over with 
yolk of egg, and fry brown. 

Dessert. 
Cherry Pie. 

Orange Butter. — Boil 6 eggs hard, beat them in a 
mortar with 2 oz. fine sugar, 3 oz. butter, and 2 oz. blanched 
almonds, beaten to a paste ; moisten with orange-flower 
water, and when all is mixed rub it through a colander 
on a dish. Serve with sweet biscuits. 
Strawberries, pine-apple, and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Potted shrimps, dried chipped beef, milk toast, rolls, 
corn pone, strawberries, radishes, chocolate. 



FRIDAY. 

Breakfast. — Cold roast beef, smelts, omelet, chipped 
potatoes, rice cakes, Graham bread, water cresses, rad- 
ishes, cucumbers, tea and coffee. 



66 what shall we eat? 

Dinner. 

Soup a la Bisque. 
Fresh Mackerel. 

Roast Lamb, with peas, asparagus, tomatoes, and 
lettuce. 

Sweetbreads. 

Lobster Pie. — Cut 2 boiled lobsters in pieces, and lay 
in a dish ; beat the spawn in a mortar ; put the shells on 
to boil in some water, with 3 spoonfuls of vinegar, pep- 
per, salt, and some mace. A large piece of butter 
rolled in flour must be added when the good is obtained. 
Pour into the dish strained, strew in some crumbs, and 
j?ut a paste over all. Bake only till the paste is done. 

Dessert, 

Rhubarb Pie. 

Lemon Syllabub. — Grate the peel of a lemon with 
lump sugar, and dissolve the sugar in f pt. of wine ; add 
the juice of half a lemon, and -£ pt. cream. Whisk the 
whole until properly thick, and put into glasses. 

Strawberries, cherries, and bonbons. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Kidney Toast. — (Take cold veal kidneys, cut in small 
pieces; pound the fat in a mortar, with salt, pepper, and 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 67 

a boiled onion. Bind all together with beaten whites 
of eggs, heap it on toast, cover with yolks beaten, sprin- 
kle with bread crumbs, and bake in the oven.) Salt fish 
broiled, cold ham, raised biscuit, corn-bread, fruit, cucum- 
bers, and radishes. Lemon cheese-cakes.- 1 - (Mix 4 oz. 
sifted lump sugar, with 4 oz. butter ; then add yolks of 
2 and white of 1 egg, the rind of 8 lemons chopped 
fine and the juice of 1-J, 1 Savoy biscuit, some blanched 
almonds, and 3 spoonfuls of brandy. Bake in patty 
pans.) Tea and cocoa. 



SATURDAY. 

Breakfast. — Broiled fresh salmon, beefsteak, fried po- 
tatoes, cream toast, Graham biscuit, potted tongue, rolls, 
tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Bean Soup. 

Soles, fried. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton, with lettuce, peas, gpinach, and 
potatoes. 

Beefsteaks, with mushrooms. 

Chicken Patties. 

Dessert. 

Sweetmeat Pudding. — Cover a dish with thin puff 
paste, and lay in it 1 oz. each of candied lemon, orange, 



68 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

and citron, sliced thin. Beat the yolks of 8 and whites 
of 2 eggs, and mix with 8 oz. butter warmed, and some 
white sugar. Pour all over the sweetmeats, and bake 
1 hour in a moderate oven. 

Flemish Cream. — Dissolve % oz. isinglass in 1 pt. 
water, strain it to £ pt. cream ; add 1 glass brandy, and 
whisk to a light froth v Put in a mould. 

Cherries and candied fruits. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Cold lamb, sandwiches of ham, sardines, waffles, dry 
toast, rolls, cucumbers, strawberries, small pound-cakes, 
tea. 



SUNDAY. 

Breakfast. — Broiled kidneys, with tomato sauce, cold 
veal, scrambled eggs, Graham bread, gems, rolls, bread, 
tea and coffee, radishes. 

. Dinner. 

Asparagus Soup. — To 2 qts. of good beef or veal 
broth, put 4 onions, 2 turnips, and some sweet herbs, 
with the white parts of a hundred young asparagus. If 
large, half the quantity will do. Let them simmer till 
tender enough to rub through a tammy, then strain and 
season, adding boiled tops of asparagus. 

Boiled Salmon. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 69 

Chickens a la Carmelite, with peas, beans, and pota- 
toes. Put a piece of buttei , size of a walnut, in a stew- 
pan ; as it melts dredge in flour, and when well mixed 
add a teacup of milk. Cut up the chickens and add 
them, with pepper, an onion, and mace. Stew till tender, 
adding milk and water, if too dry. Take out the chick- 
ens, and cover with chopped parsley and lemon-juice 
mixed ; thicken the sauce, and add a glass of white-wine. 

Beefsteak , broiled. 

Dessert. 

Mother Eve's Pudding. — Grate f lb. bread ; mix with 
same quantity chopped suet, the same of apples and cur- 
rants ; mix with these 4 eggs, and the rind of half a 
lemon shred fine. Boil in a shape 3 hours, and serve 
with sauce. 

French Flummery. — Boil slowly 2 oz. isinglass shav- 
ings in a quart of cream, 15 minutes. Stir, and sweeten 
with loaf sugar ; add a spoonful of rose-water, and one 
of orange-flower water. Strain into a form. • 

Cherries, strawberries, and nuts. 

Tea, on Lunch. 

Ham cake, cold corned beef, minced salt fish, crackers 
and cheese, toast, corn bannock, biscuit, macaroons, 
strawberries, cucumbers, tea. 



70 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

MONDAY. 

Breakfast. — Sweetbreads fried, potted fish, raw to* 
matoes sliced, fried potatoes, cucumbers, cream toast, 
rolls, water-cresses. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Vegetable Sou}). — Veal or beef broth, with all sorts 
of vegetables cut small. 

Boiled Codfish, with sauce. 

Boiled Chickens. — With tomatoes, potatoes roasted, 
peas, and green corn. 

Beef steal Pudding. — Take 1^ lb. of the inside of a 
sirloin, beat it tender, cut thin, and divide into small 
slices, with 2 kidneys. Season with pepper, salt, and 
chopped parsley, roll in paste, and boil 3 hours. When 
done, have ready strong beef-gravy, with mushroom 
ketcbup in it, make a hole in the paste, and pour it into 
the pudding. 

Dessert.' 

Cherry Pudding. 

Delicate dish. — Beat whites of eggs with currant 
jelly, to a solid froth, and serve with cream and sugar. 
Raspberries, cherries, and nuts. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 71 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Cold tongue, sardines, veal cake, cucumbers, rasp- 
berries, muffins, toast, bread, cake, cherries. Tea. 



TUESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Spring chickens, fried, with cream sauce ; 
dry toast, rice cakes, raw tomatoes dressed, cold corned 
beef, cucumbers, fruit, tea and coffee, rolls. 
Dinner. 

Tomato Soup. — Beef soup with tomatoes pulped or 
shredded, and well seasoned. 

Salmon, boiled. 

Fillet of Veal, stuffed, with beans, tomatoes, and 
potato loaves. Mash the potatoes without milk, make 
them into conical loaves with butter to hold them, and 
brown under the meat. 

Rice Croquettes. — Boil 6 oz. rice in broth, let it stew 
till done, then work it well with a spoonful of white 
sauce, 2 of grated cheese, and a little pepper. When 
of proper consistence, make the rice into shapes, hollowing 
them in the hand like cups; then fill them with any 
kind of minced meat, 'close the end to contain it, and 
cover well with the following mixture : 2 spoonfuls grat- 
ed cheese, with 4 of bread crumbs, stuck together with 
yolks of eggs ; fry a light brown. 



72 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 



Raspberry Pie. 
Soft Boiled Custard. 
Cherries, and bonbons. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold chicken pie, broiled smoked salmon, raspberries 
and cherries, waffles, corn bread, bread, cucumbers, fruit- 
cake. 



WEDNESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Lamb cutlet breaded, cold ham, omelet 
with paisley, steam toast, rolls, bread, corn pone, cucum- 



bers, and fruit. 



Dinner. 



Green Com Soup. — Veal broth with 2 ears of green 
corn grated into it. 

Bhiefah Broiled. 

Roast Chickens^ with corn, beans, peas, and potato 
omelet. Mashed potato, mixed with 4 eggs, well sea- 
soned, and fried. 

Calves' 1 Brains. — Cut prepared brains into slices | an 
inch thick ; flour, egg, and bread-crumb them ; fry a nice 
brown, and serve with tomato sauce. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT i 



Gooseberry Pudding. — Stew gooseberries till they 
will pulp, then press a pint of the juice through a coarse 
sieve, and beat it with 3 eggs well beaten, 1 \ oz. butter, 
and enough sugar to sweeten it. Add a few bread- 
crumbs, and bake in dish with a crust round it. 

Almond Custard. — Boil 2 or 3 bitter almonds in a 
pint of milk or cream, with a stick of cinnamon, a piece 
of lemon peel, and 8 lumps of sugar ; let it simmer ; then 
strain it, and stir till cold. Add the yolks of 6 eggs 
beaten, 1 oz. of sweet almonds beaten fine in rose water, 
and stir over the fire till of a proper thickness. Do not 
boil. Raspberries, cherries, and chocolate caramels. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Broiled ham, dried beef chipped, biscuit, crackers 
and cheese, cucumbers stewed. (Peel and slice thick, 
stew with salt and pepper, and simmer slowly in a little 
broth or butter; add a little flour before serving.}, 
Baspberries, sponge cake, anchovy, toast. Tea and 
chocolate. 



THURSDAY. 

Breahfast. — Minced salmon with cream, cold chicken, 
corn muffins, rolls, toast, cucumbers, and fruit. Tea and 
coffee. 

4 



74 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

Dinner. 

Summer Soup. — Take 2 cucumbers, 12 onions, 3 po- 
tatoes, 1 lettuce, and a bead of white cabbage ; fry 
together in butter ; then stew 3 hours in 3 pts. stock ; 
add a little mint, parsley, and a pint of green peas ; let it 
stew 2 hours more ; press it through a seive, and thicken 
with butter and flour. 

Trout. 

Roast Lamb, mint sauce, with corn, peas, potatoes 
stewed, and maccaroni with cheese. 

Chicken Pudding. — Fricassee 2 young chickens, 
season with mushroom powder, mace, and salt. Make 
gravy of the giblets and a bit of meat, put 2 spoonfuls 
into the paste. Boil 2 hours, and put the rest of the 
gravy into or under the pudding. 

Dessert. 

Bice Custards, Strawberry Jelly. — Boil f lb. loaf 
sugar in a pint of water 20 minutes, pour hot over 
a quart of picked strawberries, and let them stand over 
night. Clarify 2-.V oz. isinglass in a pint of water, drain 
the syrup from the berries, adding the juice of a lemon. 
When the isinglass is nearly cold mix all together, add 
more sugar if wanted, and put it into moulds. Set on 
the ice. 

Raspberries and almonds. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT f 15 

Tea, ok Lunch. 

Potted fish, broiled kidneys, minced salt fish, Vegeta- 
ble Ragout. (Cut any kinds of cold vegetables into 
slices, put in a stewpan with pepper, salt, a little broth, 
and a piece of butter, and stir till quite hot). Cu- 
cumbers and fruit, corn pone, rolls, toast. Coffee Calces. 
(1 lb. flour. \ lb. butter, do. sugar, 1 egg, 1 oz. car- 
away seeds; mix with warm milk and a spoonful 
rose water; roll out thin, and bake on little tins.) 
Tea and chocolate. 



FRIDAY. 



Breakfast. — Broiled beefsteak, trout, stewed potatoes, 
pickled salmon, hot brown bread, rolls, tea and coffee, 
Kedgeree. — Boil 2 tablespoonfuls of rice, add any fish 
previously, cooked (salmon preferable), nicely picked; 
beat up an egg well, and stir it in just before serving. 

Dinner. 

Macaroni Soup. 

Flounders. 

Fillet of Beef, with corn, peas, beans, and tomatoes. 

Corned Beef. 

Bessert. 

Almond Padding. — Take 2% oz. bread crumbs, and 
steep them in a pint of cream, (or milk), then pound ^ 



76 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

pint of blanched almonds to a paste, with some water; 
beat the yolks of 6 eggs, and whites of 3 ; mix all 
together, and add 3 oz. sugar, and 1 of beaten butter. 
Thicken over the fire, and bake in a puff paste. 

'Blancmange. 

Raspberries, cherries, and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Cold lamb, sardines, omelet, fried bacon, pate de foie 
gras, waffles, toast, berries, cucumbers, pound cake, choc- 
olate. 



SATURDAY. 

Breakfast. — Veal cutlets, potted game, dropped eggs 
on toast, steamed toast, broiled ham, rolls, tea and coffee, 
fruit. 

Dinner. 

Rice Soup. — Take white stock, season it, and use 1% 
lbs. of rice to 2 qts. of broth. 

Soles. 

Roiled Mutton, caper sauce, with roasted potatoes, 
peas, and corn. 

Chicken Patties. 

Dessert. 

Lemon Jelly. — Clarify 1£ oz. isinglass in a pint of 
water; add ^ lb. loaf sugar, and the rind of 2 lemons, 



WHAT SHALL WE BAT ? 17 

cut thin. Strain the juice of 4 lemons, and stir into the 
cool sugar and isinglass. Take out the peel, and pour 
into forms. 

Berry Pie. 

Fruit and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Cold corned beef, broiled mackerel, toasted cheese, 
muffins, toast, rolls, berries, Harrison cake, tea. 



SUNDAY. 
Breakfast. — Codfish balls, broiled fresh salmon, 
boiled eggs, gems, fruit, rolls, bread, tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Chicken Broth. « 

Salmon. 

Roast Beef, with potatoes, peas, tomatoes, and beans. 

Sweetbreads, fried. 

Dessert. 

Arrowroot Picdding. 

Snow Cream. — Put to a quart of cream the whites 
of 3 eggs, well beaten, 4 spoonfuls of sweet wine, sugar 
to taste, and a bit of lemon-peel. Whip to a froth, take 
out the peel, and serve in a dish. 

Early apples, and. nuts. 



78 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

Tea, opv Lunch. 

Salt fish broiled, cold mutton, cheese, corn bread, 
Turk's cap, raspberries and cherries, cucumbers, and 
radishes, toast, ham cake, chocolate cakes, tea. 



-AlTTG-TJST. 



MONDAY. 



Breakfast. — Broiled halibut, cold tongue, stewed po- 
tatoes, raw sliced tomatoes, omelet, rolls, dry toast, cu- 
cumbers, fruit, tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Vegetable ifarrow Soup. — Boil the marrow and strain, 
then add to beef or veal broth, thicken with 2 spoonfuls 
of arrowroot, and a little cream. Do not allow it to boil 
after the latter is added. 

Stewed Codfish. — Cut in slices an inch thick, lay in a 
large stewpan, and season with salt, pepper, a bunch of 
herbs, an onion, \ pt. white-wine, and \ pt. water. Cover 
close, and let it simmer five minutes, then squeeze in the 
juice of a lemon, a piece of butter size of an egg, rolled 
in flour, and a blade of mace. Let it stew slowly till 
done, and take out the herbs and onions. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 79 

Chicken Pillun, with squash, corn, beans, and pota- 
toes. 

Baked Calves' 1 Head. — Wash the head, and place in a 
large earthen dish, on large iron skewers, laid across the 
top of the dish ; cover it with bread crumbs, grated nut- 
meg, chopped sweet herbs, a little fine-cut lemon, and 
flour ; thick pieces of butter in the eyes, and all over 
the head, then flour it again ; put in the dish a piece of 
beef, cut small; herbs, an onion, pepper, mace, cloves, a 
pint of water, and bake the head a fine brown. Boil 
the brains with sage, separately. When the head is 
done enough take it out, and set by the fire to keep 
warm, then stir ail in the dish together, and boil in a 
stewpan ; strain it off, put it in the saucepan again with 
a piece of butter rolled in flour, the brains and sage 
chopped fine, a spoonful of catsup, and two spoonfuls of 
wine. Beat well together, and serve in the dish with 
the head. Leave the tongue in the head. 

Dessert. 

Balced Custard. 

WTiipt Cream. — A qt. cream, the whites of 4 eggs, i 
pt. white-wine, \ lb. powdered sugar, 12 drops essence 
of lemon. Beat to a froth, and put in glasses with a 
little jelly in the bottom. 

Peaches and melons. 



80 WHAT SHALL WE EAT i 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold tongue, minced beef on toast, peaches and 
cream, cucumbers, corn pone, boiled rice, dry toast, tea, 
lemonade. 



TUESDAY. 



Breakfast. — Corned beef hash, cold roast chicken, 
boiled eggs, steam toast, raised biscuit, lettuce, huckle- 
berries, rolls, coffee and tea. 

Dinxeh. 

Giblet Soap. 

JBahd Pike. — Stuff the pike with grated bread, 2 
hard boiled eggs chopped fine, a little nutmeg, lemon 
peel, and the roe or liver chopped ; then lay it in the 
dish, with the tail in the mouth ; put pieces of butter 
all over it, and sprinkle with flour. Garnish with toast 
and lemon, and serve with melted butter. 

Boiled Corned Beef, with corn, squash, beans, and 
baked potatoes. 

Buck, with Peas. — Put the duck in a deep stewpaD, 
with a piece of butter, (singe it first,) flour it, and turn 
it two or three times, then pour out all the fat. Put to 
the duck a pint of good gravy, do. peas, 2 lettuces cut 
small, sweet herbs, pepper and salt ; cover close and stew 
half an hour. When well done thicken with a little 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 81 

butter and flour, shake all together three or four 
minutes, and serve in a dish, the duck with the sauce 
poured over it. 

"t. 



Cream Pudding. — Boil 1 qt. of cream with a blade 
of mace, and half a nutmeg, grated ; let it cool ; beat 
the yolks of 8 eggs, and whites of 3, and mix them with 
a spoonful of flour, J lb. blanched almonds, beaten with 
rose-water, and by degrees mix in the cream. Tie in a 
thick cloth well floured, boil half an hour, and when 
done throw fine sugar and melted butter over it. 

Peaches and Cream. 

Melons, plums, and bonbons. 

Tea, on Lunch. 

Broiled smoked salmon, lobster salad, corn pone, 
Graham biscuit, blackberries, peaches and cream, maca- 
roons, and small sponge cakes, dry toast, tea and choco- 
late. 



WEDNESDAY. 
Breakfast. — Broiled spring chicken, brown bread, 
cream toast, cold ham, potted fish, rolls, scrambled eggs, 
blackberries, cucumbers, tea and coffee. 

4* 



82 what shall we eat ? 

Dinner. 

Codling Soup. — Take the meat from a young cod, pound 
it in a mortar, with some shred parsley, and bread 
crumbs soaked in milk; make the mixture up into balls 
with an egg, seasoned well. Stew down 2 or 3 codlings 
or haddocks into broth, strain it, pulp the meat through 
a sieve, boil it with parsley roots, thicken, and serve 
with the forcemeat balls. 
. Broiled Bluejish. 

Roast Beef, with corn, egg plant, squash, and rice. 

Pigeon Fricassee. — Cut 8 pigeons into small pieces, 
and put in a stewpan with 1 pt. water and same of 
claret. Season with salt, pepper, mace, an onion, 
a bunch of herbs, a piece of butter rolled in flour ; cover 
close, and let them stew till there is just enough for 
sauce ; then take out the onion and herbs, beat up the 
yolks of 3 eggs, push the meat to one side, and stir 
them into the gravy. Keep stirring till sauce is thick, 
then put the meat in a dish, and pour over it. 
Dessert. 

Charlotte Russe. 

Ice Cream. — Newport receipt. — 1 qt. new milk, with 
cream to suit, 2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch, yolk of 1 egg, 
sugar, and flavoring to taste. Wet the starch in a little 
of the milk, mix with the egg, and stir into the milk 
boiling hot. When cool, it is ready for the freezer. 
Peaches, plums, and hot-house grapes. 



what shall we eat? 83 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Cold veal, sardines, Boston crackers, with tomato cat- 
sup, cream toast, rice cakes, blackberries and huckleber- 
ries, pound-cake, rolls, gems. Tea. 



THURSDAY. 
Breakfast. — Cold roast beef, sweetbreads fried, raw 
tomatoes, muffins, potted tongue, rolls and bread, berries, 
cucumbers. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Green Com Soup. 

Baled Cod's Head. — Lay the head in a buttered pan, 
with a bundle of herbs, an onion stuck with cloves, 3 or 4 
blades of mace, -J- spoonful black pepper, a small piece 
lemon-peel, a bruised nutmeg, a small bit of horseradish, 
and a quart of water. Flour the head, and stick butter 
and bread crumbs over it. Bake it well, and lay it in the 
dish it is to be served in, covered close, and placed over 
hot water. Boil the liquor 3 or 4 minutes, strain it, -and 
add a gill of wine, 2 spoonfuls of catsup, 1 of mushrooms 
pickled, and I lb. butter rolled in flour. Stir till it is 
thick, and pour, into the dish. Stick pieces of fried 
bread round the dish, and in the head. 

Boiled Lamb, with baked tomatoes, corn, lima beans, 
and potatoes. 



84 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

Brown Fricassee. — Cut chickens in small pieces, and 
rub with yolks of eggs ; then roll them in grated bread 
and nutmeg, and fry a fine brown with abutter. Pour 
off the butter, and add £ pt. brown gravy, 1 glass white 
wine, a few mushrooms, salt and pepper, and a littk 
butter rolled in flour. When thick, dish it for the table, 

Dessert. 

Blackberry Pudding. — A good batter mixed with the 
fruit, boiled 1 hour, and served with wine sauce. 

Kisses. — Beat the whites of 4 eggs till stiff, then stir 
in gradually (one spoonful at a time) 1 lb. powdered 
sugar, and add 12 drops essence of lemon. Lay a wet 
sheet of paper on a square pan, and drop at equal dis- 
tances a teaspoonful of stiff currant jelly with a little 
sugar and egg under each one. Then pile the froth so 
as to cover each lump of jelly, as round as possible. Set 
in a cool oven, and when colored they are done. Place 
the two bottoms together, lay them lightly on a sieve, 
and dry in a cool oven till they stick together. 

Apples, peaches, and melons. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold miroton of veal, dried beef stewed in cream, 
wafiles, crackers and cheese, bread and toast, berries and 
radishes, Indian pound-cake. Tea and chocolate. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 85 

FRIDAY. 
Breakfast.— Codfish fried, chipped potatoes, cold 
* tongue, minced lamb, omelet, corn bread, brown bread, 
berries, rolls. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Lobster Soup.— Make a stock of small fish, take the 
meat from 1 or 2 lobsters, and cut in small pieces ; lay 
it aside T and break the shell, boiling it gently several 
hours with the stock. Make the coral into force- 
' meat balls, with a small piece of stock fish, bread crumbs, 
parsley, and egg. When the stock is done, strain, and 
thicken with butter and flour. Warm the lobster in it, 
and serve with the balls. It may be seasoned delicately 
with any sauce. 

Boiled Soles, melted butter. 
. Boast Veal, with peas, beans, and potatoes a la maitre 
d'hotel. 

Neat's Tongue Frieassee. — Boil the tongues till ten- 
der, peel, and cut in thin slices ; fry them in fresh butter ; 
then pour it out, add enough gravy for sauce, herbs, an 
onion, pepper, salt, mace, 'and a glass of white-wine; 
simmer all ± an hour ; take out the tongue, and strain the 
gravy ; then put both into the pan again with yolks of 2 
eggs beaten, a piece of butter size of a walnut, rolled in 
flour, and a little nutmeg. Shake together 5 minutes, 
and serve. 



86 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ?■ 

Dessert. 
Huckleberry Pie. 

Apple Souffle. — Scald and sweeten the fruit, beat 
through a sieve, and put in a dish. Pour a rich custard 
2 inches deep over it ; when cold, whip the whites of the 
eggs to a froth, and lay in rough pieces on the custard ; 
sift fine sugar over it, and put in a slack oven for a 
short time. 

Peaches and melons. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Ham sandwiches, salad, tongue, potted game, corn 
muffins, biscuit, jelly tarts, berries, cup cake. Tea. 



SATURDAY. 
Breakfast. — Beefsteak, cola" snipe, raw tomatoes, drop- 
ped eggs on toast, milk toast, berries, cucumbers, tea 
and coffee, rolls. 

Dinner. 

Oxcheek Soup. — Take the meat from half an ox-head, 
and put in a pan with 3 sliced, fried onions, herbs, 
allspice, pepper, and salt, a large spoonful each. Lay 
the bones close on the meat, and put 1 qt. water to 
every pound cut meat. Cover the pan with coarse 
brown paper, tied closely, and let it stand in the oven 
4 hours. When done, take out the bones, and pour the 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 87 

soup and meat into a pan. When it is to be used, 
take off the fat, warm the soup, and cut the meat 
into pieees not larger than a mouthful. Make the 
brains into forcemeat balls, and season highly with 
walnut catsup and cayenne. 

Stewed Terrapin.-Boil them JO minutes, and then 
take them out, remove the outer shells, and put back 
again. Then boil till the claws are tender. Take them out 
of the inner shell, taking care not to break the gall, 
which must be separated from the liver and thrown 
away ; also the spongy part. Cut them in small pieces, 
put in a stewpan with salt, pepper, and some butter. 
After they have stewed a few minutes, put in a wine- 
glass of" water to each terrapin. When they have 
Itewed 10 minutes add butter rolled in flour, and 1 
glass white-wine to each one. Stew 5 minutes more, 
and take off. Add beaten yolks of eggs (1 yolk to 2 
terrapins) well stirred in, cover tightly, let it stand 5 
minutes, and serve in a deep dish. 

Lamh Chops, breaded ; with succotash (corn and beans), 
squash, and potatoes. 

Lamb's ITead, aW.-Wash, and lay in water 1 hour ; 
take out the brains, and with a sharp penknife take out 
the tongue and bones, so as to leave the meat whole ; ehop 
together 2 lbs. veal, 2 lbs. beef-suet, thyme, lemou peel; 
uutme*grated,2rollsgratod and yolks of 4 eggs. T,e the 



88 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ; 

head with thread, and stew 2 hours in 2 qts. gravy. 
Make the mixture into balls, and fry in dripping ; beat 
the brains with parsley, and fry in little cakes ; strain 
the gravy, and season with catsup, and serve the head 
with the fried balls and brains around it. 

Dessert. 

Soft Boiled Custard, frozen ; with sliced peaches, curds, 
and whey. — Wash very clean in cold water a piece of rennet 
2 inches square ; wipe it dry, and pour on it lukewarm 
water enough to cover it. Let it stand all night, then 
take it out, and stir the water into a quart of warm milk. 
Set the milk in a warm place till it becomes a firm curd 
— then on the ice. Eat with wine, sugar, and nutmeg. 

Melons, plums, and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Ham cake, cold beef, sardines, pate de foie gras, 
wine jelly, sponge cake, berries, steamed toast, rolls, 
Indian bannock. Tea. 



SUNDAY. 



Breakfast. — Broiled salmon, cold corned beef, mutton 
chops, raw tomatoes, gems, rolls, bread, berries, Indian 
griddle-cakes. 



what shall we eat ? 89 

Dinner. 

Tomato Soup. — Chicken or veal broth thickened, with 
tomato pulp in it. 

Perch. 

Broiled Quail, with egg-plant, squash, corn, and to- 
matoes. 

Ragout of Veal. — Cut a neck of veal into steaks, flat- 
, ten with a rolling-pin, season with salt, pepper, and 
spice, lard them with bacon, lemon-peel, thyme, and dip 
them in yolks of eggs. Put in a pan with |- pt. strong 
gravy, and stew leisurely; season high, and add mush- 
rooms and pickles, also add a glass of wine. 

Dessert. 

Blachherry Pie. 

Lemon Pudding.— Ovate the rind of a fresh lemon, and 
squeeze in the juice. Stir together ^ lb. powdered sugar, 
and ^ lb. butter to a cream ; beat 3 eggs well and add ; 
mix all together with a tablespoonful of wine and brandy, 
and a teaspoonful of rose-water ; beat all very hard. 
Make a paste of 5 oz. flour, and \ lb. butter ; cover a 
buttered soup-plate, put in the pudding, and bake a 
light brown. 

Peaches and grapes. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Boiled ham, cold birds, crackers, raw tomatoes, waf- 



90 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

fles, dry toast, biscuit, peaches and cream, berries, Ger- 
man cake — from a Hungarian Countess (1 lb. sugar, 1 
lb. beaten almonds, 1 lb. citron beaten, 1 oz. mace, cin- 
namon and cloves mixed. Make as stiff as pie-crust, 
roll out an inch thick, cut in shapes, and glaze with 
sugar and water. It will keep a year.) Tea and choc- 
olate. 



SEPTEMBER. 

MONDAY. 

Breakfast. — Cold chicken pie, broiled ham, scrambled 
eggs, fried potatoes, rolls, cream toast, berries and 
peaches, tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Soup a la Creel — Grate the red part of 12 carrots, 
slice 4 onions, a turnip, 2 lettuces, a piece of lean ham, 
a few sprigs of parsley and thyme, and a few allspice ; 
put them all in a stewpan with a piece of butter ; let it 
simmer \ an hour, then fill up with stock, and allow it 
to boil gently 2 hours ; put in the crumb of 2 rolls, and 
rub the whole through a tamis. Let it boil, skim it, add 
salt to taste, and a small lump of sugar. Put a little 
boiled rice in the tureen. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 91 

Cutlets of Sole. — Cut the sole in pieces crosswise, dry 
flour, egg, and crumb them ; fry crisp, and dish with, 
parsley in the centre. 

Green Goose Roasted, with roast potatoes, squash, corn 
and tomatoes. 

Steived Beef. — Stew the brisket in water enough to 
cover it ; when tender take out the bones, and skim the 
fat ; strain the gravy, and add a glass of wine and a 
small muslin bag of spice ; have ready boiled vegeta- 
bles, with mushrooms, cut them in shapes, and lay around 
and upon the beef. Pour the gravy over it. 

Dessert. 

Bread-and-butter Pudding. — Make a custard of 1 egg, 
and \ pt. milk, by boiling the milk with lemon peel, and 
sugar, putting it on the fire with the egg to thicken ; 
butter slices of bread or roll, and soak them an hour or 
two in the custard, then lay them in a dish with cur- 
rants, and powdered sugar . between each layer. Then 
pour over it another \ pt. milk beaten with 2 eggs, and 
bake. 

Creme au caramel. 

Peaches and pears. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold mutton, tongue, Turk's cap, muffins, potted fish, 
cracker milk toast, jelly cake, berries, peaches, dry toast, 
tea. 



92 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

TUESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Beef hash, pickled tripe, stewed pota- 
toes, corn bannock, rolls, bread, raw tomatoes, berries, 
and fruit. 

Dinner. 

Potato Soup. 
Bluefish. 

Roast Lamb, with beans, tomatoes, potatoes, and corn 
fritters. Grate corn into a batter, and fry on a griddle, 
Beefs Heart Roasted. 

Dessert. 

Baled Batter Budding. — Make a batter with 6 oz. 
flour, 1 gill milk and 4 eggs ; make it the consistency 
of cream with more milk, and bake in cups. Cold sauce. 

Almond Croquantes. — Blanch and dry 1 lb. almonds, 
pound in a mortar with 1 lb. powdered sugar, rub 
through a wire sieve, then rub in f lb. butter, grated rind 
i a lemon, and yolks 3 eggs. Make into a paste, cut 
in shapes, and bake in a quick oven. When done dip 
them in sugar boiled to a syrup. 

Pears, plums, and grapes. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold goose, dried beef chipped, waffles, raw toma- 
toes, steam toast, berries, breadcake. Tea. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 93 

WEDNESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Broiled kidneys, cold lamb, stewed to- 
matoes, "boiled eggs, Graham biscuit, rolls, milk toast, 
baked potatoes. Tea axid coffee. 

Dinner. 

Beef Soup. 

Boast Bolster. — Kemove the shells from boiled lob- 
sters, lay them before the fire, and baste them with but- 
ter till they have a fine froth. Dish them with plain 
melted butter. 

Bouilli, with corn, beans, egg-plant, and potatoes. 
Take from 4 to 6 lbs. of rump of beef, and allow 1 pt. 
cold water to every pound of meat ; let it simmer gently 
four or five hours, with a bunch of herbs, and an onion 
stuck with cloves ; then strain off the soup, leaving 
enough for sauce, to be served with the meat. Season 
with catsup, thicken, and add vegetables cut in shapes. 

Boned Lamb. — Bone the shoulder, stuff it with fine 
force-meat, and skewer it in a nice shape. Put it in a 
closely covered stewpan with 2 oz. butter, and a teacup 
of water, until the gravy is drawn ; cut the brisket in 
pieces, and stew them in gravy thickened with milk and 
egg ; thicken the gravy of the shoulder with any vege- 
tables in season. Place the shoulder in a dish with its 
gravy, and lay the brisket with white sauce around it. 



94 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

Dessert. 

Blackberry Pie. 

Peach Pudding. — Scald till soft 12 peaches; put 
grated bread into a pint of boiling milk, and when half 
cold add 4 oz. sugar, the yolks of 4 eggs beaten, and 1 
glass of white wine. Mix with the pulp of the fruit, and 
bake in a paste. 

Pears and grapes. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Sardines, broiled ham, cold chicken, crackers and 
cheese, corn bread, buttered toast, berries, Harrison cake. 
Tea. 



THURSDAY. 

BreaJcfast. — Liver hash, stewed mushrooms, cold ham, 
corn pone, raw tomatoes, cucumbers, fruit, fried pota- 
toes, griddle- cakes, rolls. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 
Green Com Soiq). 
Blachfish. 

Roast Chickens, with beans, baked tomatoes, and po- 
tatoes. 

Cold Tongue. 

Dessert. 
Huckleberry Pudding. — Put i lb. flour into a pan with 
a little salt, and add gently -S- pt. milk. Beat the whites 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 95 

of 4 eggs to a solid froth, and add just as the hatter is 
to he used. Make it of a proper consistency with milk, 
and stir in the fruit. It may he haked or hoiled. 

Custard Cream of Chocolate. 

Peaches, plums, and grapes. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold honed lamh, lobster salad, muffins, toast, ginger- 
bread, herries and peaches, sponge cake, crackers and 
cheese. Tea and chocolate. 



FKIDAY. 



Breakfast. — Broiled whitefish, cold tongue, dropped 
eggs, chipped potatoes, sliced onions and cucumbers, 
milk toast, rolls, berries. 

Dinner. 

Eel Soup. — Skin 3 lbs. small eels ; bone 1 or 2, cut in 
little pieces, and fry lightly with a bit of butter, and 
parsley. Put to the remainder 3 qts. water, a crust of 
bread, 3 blades mace, an onion, some whole pepper, and . 
a bunch of herbs. Cover, and stew till the fish breaks 
from the bones ; then strain it off, pound to a paste, and 
pass through a sieve. Cut some toasted bread into 
dice, pour the soup on it, add the scallops of eel, and 



96 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

serve : J pt. cream or milk with a teaspoonful of flour 
rubbed smooth in it, is a great improvement. 

Baked Codfish. 

Leg of Mutton, stuffed ; with corn, squash, and pota- 
toes. 

Stewed Larks. 

Dessert. 

Rolypoly Pudding. — Make a rich paste of butter and 
flour, as light as possible. Roll it thin, 8 or 10 inches 
wide, and as long as you please ; then spread a thick 
layer of fruit or jam upon it, leaving an inch of the 
edges bare. Then roll it round, lapping it over to se- 
cure the fruit. "Wrap in a floured cloth, and boil 2 or 3 
hours. 

Imperial Cream. 

Melons and pears. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Cold pigeon pie, pickled herring, baked potatoes, 
rusk, steam toast, berries and fruit, crackers and cheese, 
tarts. Tea and chocolate. 



SATURDAY. 

Breakfast. — Codfish balls, stewed eels, potted game, 
potatoes a la maitre d'hotel, rolls, brown bread, fruit. 
Tea and coffee. 



what shall we eat? 97 

Dinner. 

Soupe a la Julienne. 

Uaddoch,'boiled. 

Roast Veal, with corn, limas beans, squash, and po- 
tatoes. 

Pilau of Babbit. — Cut up the rabbit ; pound an onion 
in mortar, extract the juice, and mix it with a saltspoon 
of ground ginger, a teaspoonful of salt, and the juice of a 
lemon. Rub this into the meat ; cut up 2 onions in 
slices, and fry them in £ lb. butter ; when brown take 
them out, put in the rabbit, and let them stew together. 
Have J lb. rice half boiled in broth ; put the meat and 
all into a jar, with \ pint milk, whole pepper, \ doz. 
cloves, and a little salt. Secure the mouth, and bake 
until done, adding a little broth to moisten ^if necessary. 

Dessert 

Huckleberry Pudding. 

Calfs-foot Jelly. — Boil a cow-heel in 2 qts. of water 
for 7 or 8 hours : take every particle of fat and sediment 
from the jelly ; when cold put to it a pint of wine, the 
juice of 3 lemons, and rind of 2 pared thin, 6 oz. sugar, 
the whites and shells of 3 eggs well beaten, and £ oz. 
insinglass. Boil 20 minutes, and after adding a teacup of 
cold water, boil 5 minutes more ; then cover close, and 
5 



98 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

let it stand f an hour to cool; pour through a jelly-bag 
till clear, and put in a mould on the ice. 
Melons, pears, and plums. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold beef, with tomato catsup, salad, potted fish, 
tongue, corn muffins, dry toast, berries and fruit, cucum- 
bers and radishes, fruit cake. Tea. 



SUNDAY. 

Breakfast. — Lamb chops, potato cakes, stewed toma- 
toes, pickled tongue, rolls, gems, berries and fruit. Tea 
and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Soup Maixjre. — Pare and slice 5 or 6 cucumbers, 
and add to them the inside of as many lettuces, a sprig 
of mint, 2 onions, If pts. peas, and a little parsley. Put 
them into a saucepan with salt and pepper, and \ lb. 
butter, to stew gently in their own liquor \ an hour, then 
add 2 qts. boiling water, and stew them 2 hours ; rub a 
little flour into a teacup of water, boil 15 or 20 minutes 
with the rest, and serve it. 

Stewed Scallops. — Boil in salt and water (after 
straining off the liquor), ton stew in the liquor, adding 
butter rolled in flour, cloves, and mace. 

Boast Ham, with corn, beans, and tomatoes. Soak 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 99 

the hani in lukewarm water for a day or two, changing 
the water often. Roast it slowly before the fire, basting 
with hot water, and when done dredge it all over with 
fine bread-eruinbs, and brown. 

Veal Cutlets, with Rice— Pound a cupful of rice boiled 
in milk, with pepper and salt, in a mortar ; cold veal in 
the same way ; mix together with yolk of egg, from into 
cutlets, brush with yolk of egg, and fry them. Cover 
them with mushrooms pickled, or any piquant sauce. 

Dessert. 

Soft boiled Custard. 

Transparent Pudding. — Beat 8 eggs, put them into a 
stewpan with ^ lb. powdered sugar, same of butter, and 
some grated nutmeg. K£ep stirring on the fire till it 
thickens. Put a puff paste round the edge of the dish, 
pour in the pudding cool, and bake in a moderate 
oven. Add candied orange and citron if you like. 

Peaches, melons, and grapes. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Broiled smoked salmon, cold ham, dried beef, boil- 
ed rice, corn bread, toast, berries and fruit, tomatoes 
dressed, German cake. 



100 WHAT SHALL WE EAT f 

OCTOBER. 

MONDAY. 

Breakfast. — Cold chicken, minced veal on toast, fried 
scallops, omelet, baked potatoes, corn pone, milk toast, 
berries. Tea and coffee. * 

Dinner. 

Macaroni Soap. 

Halibut. 

Roast Woodcock, with squash, egg-plant, tomatoes, 

and potatoes. 

Chicken Pie. 

Dessert. 

Quince Pudding. 

Burnt Cream. 

Grapes, pears, and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Ham cake, potted game, sardines, waffles, gems, 
biscuit, stewed pears, Spanish buns, breadcake. Tea 
and chocolate. 



TUESDAY. 
Breakfast. — Broiled liver, cold mutton, tomatoes, fried 
potatoes, cold woodcock, cracker milk toast, rolls. Tea 
and coffee. 



what shall we eat? 101 

Dinner. 
Oyster Soup. 
Boiled Codfish. 

Roast Beef, with potatoes, cauliflower, and squash. 
Miroton of Veal. 

Dessert. 

Apple Charlotte. — Pare and slice apples ; cut slices of 
bread and butter ; place the latter all around the inside of 
a buttered pie-dish; then put in a layer of apples 
sprinkled with chopped lemon peel, and considerable 
brown sugar ; then put in a layer of the bread, and 
one of apples, repeating till the dish is full. Squeeze 
over all the juice of lemons, so that it will be well 
flavored. Cover up the dish with crusts, bake 1^ hours, 
remove the crust, and turn out. 

Vanilla Cream. 

Pears, grapes, and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold chicken pie, fried oysters, chopped vegetables 
on toast, peaches and cream, Graham bread, rolls. Tea 
and chocolate. 

WEDNESDAY. 
Breakfast. — Minced beef, cold ham, dropped eggs, 
chipped potatoes, Indian griddle-cakes, rolls. Tea and 
coffee. 



102 what shall we eat ? 

Dinner. 
Pea Soup. 
Baked Pike. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton, caper sauce, with stewed po- 
tatoes, cabbage, beans, and spinach. 
Sweetbreads, stewed. 

Dessert. 
Brandy Pudding. 
Peach Pie. 
Grapes, apples, and almonds. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Clam fritters, potted game, veal sandwiches, apple 
sauce, muffins, toast, corn bannock, sponge cake. Tea. 



THURSDAY. 

Breakfast. — Pickle shad roes, broiled oysters, mutton 
chops, corn bread, milk toast, rolls. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Tomato Soup. 
Smelts. 

Roast Partridges, with squash, egg-plant, and ho- 
miny. 

Stewed Beef. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 103 



Arrowroot Pudding. 

Baked Custard. 

Candied fruits, bonbons, and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Pickled oysters, broiled ham, flour griddle-cakes, with 
sugar and nutmeg, rice balls, stewed plums, jelly cakes, 
tea, toast, crackers and cheese. 



FRIDAY. 



Breakfast. — Broiled halibut, fried scallops, cold boiled 
chickens, poached eggs, milk toast of brown bread, muf- 
fins, rolls. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. . 

Vermicelli Soup. 
Bluefish. 

Roast Pork, with apple-sauce, tomatoes, squash, and 
potatoes. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

Dessert. 
Apple Pie. 
Blancmange. 
Grapes, pears, and figs. 



104 what shall we eat? 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold birds, tongue, ham toast, cheese, cream cakes 
raised biscuit, steam toast, baked sweet apples, fruit cake. 



SATUFwDAY. 

Breakfast. — Corned beef hash, cold tongue, potted 
fish, brown bread, corn pone, rolls. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Clam Soup. 
Soles. 

Boiled Chickens, oyster sauce, with potatoes, egg 
plant, baked potatoes, and squash. 
Boiled Tongue. 

Dessert. 

Damson Pudding. — Take a few spoonfuls from a qt. of 
milk, and mix into it by degrees 4 spoonfuls flour, 2 of 
ginger, and a little salt ; then add the rest of the milk, 
and 1 lb. of damsons. Tie it in a wet, floured cloth, and 
boil 1^ hour; pour over it melted butter and sugar. 

Chocolate Cream. 

Grapes, pears, and nuts. 



what shall we eat? 105 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Broiled salt mackerel, cold roast pork, raw oysters, 
baked pears, muffins, doughnuts, fried bread, rolls, cup- 
cake. Tea. 



SUNDAY. 
Breakfast. — Cold roast duck, fried potatoes, hominy, 
omelet with parsley, minced fresh fish, brown bread 
milk toast, corn bannock, rolls. Tea and cocoa. 

Dinner. 

Veal Broth. 

Baked Whitefish. 

Roast Veal, with cauliflower, spinach, and potatoes. 

Broiled Snipe. 

Dessert. 
Bice Pudding. 
Lemon Cream. 
OraDges, apples, and grapes. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Chicken patties, potted tongue, sardines, dry toast, 
crackers and cheese, preserved quinces, Graham biscuit, 
rolls, macaroons and cocoanut cakes. Tea. 



106 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 



NOVE31BER. 

MONDAY. 

Breakfast. — Pork steak, cold quail, pickled scallops, 
baked potatoes, milk tost of brown bread, rolls. Tea 
and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Harrico Soup. — Take mutton cutlets, trim, and fry- 
to light brown ; then stew in 3 qts. of brown gravy soup 
till tender. Take 2 carrots, 2 onions, celery cut fine, a 
glass of port wine, and one of mushroom catsup, and add 
to the soup, after straining. Cook till all is tender, and 
thicken with a little butter and flour. 

filackfish, boiled. 

Roast JBeef, with lima beans, squash, and potatoes. 

Spiced Veal — Two and a half lbs. of veal well chopped, 
4 crackers pounded fine, 2 eggs, 2 slices of pork chopped 
fine, a piece of butter size of an egg, ^ teaspoonful pep- 
per, and same of salt. Put into a shape, cover with 
bread crumbs, and bake 2 hours. 

Dessert. 
Carrot Pie. — Boil and strain 6 carrots to a pulp, aoM 
3 pts. milk, 6 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls butter melted, juice 



107 

of i a lemon, and grated rind of a whole one. Sweeten 
and bake in a deep dish. 

Sponge Pudding. — Butter a mould thickly, and fill it 
three parts full of small sponge cakes soaked in wine, 
then fill up the mould with a rich cold custard. Put 
a buttered paper over the mould, and bake it. Serve 
with wine sauce. 

Plums, pears, and chestnuts. 

Tea, oh Lunch. 

Rice Cakes. (Soak \ lb. rice over night, boil soft, 
drain dry, mix \ lb. butter with it, and set away to cool. 
Then stir it into a qt. of milk, stir in \ pt. flour, and add 
6 eggs with salt. Fry thin on a griddle). Cold tongue. 
Potted Fish. (Boil lobsters, shrimps, or any shell-fish, pick 
out the meat, and put in a stew-pan with a little butter, 
chopped mushrooms, and a little salt. Simmer gently, 
then add the yolks of 2 eggs beaten with a cup-full of 
milk or cream, and a little chopped parsley. Let all 
stew till of the consistency of paste, then put into a pot, 
and press down. When cold cover with melted butter, 
and tie on an oil-skin cover). French rolls, Graham 
bread, stewed quinces. Tea and coffee. 

Cup-cake, with hickory nuts. 



108 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

TUESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Cold turkey, sweetbreads, stewed with 
mushrooms, buckwheat cakes, wheaten grits with cream, 
rolls and bread. Coffee. 

Dinner. 

White Soup. — Take broth made of veal, or white 
poultry, cut the meat off, and put the bone back, adding 
2 or 3 shank-bones of mutton, and \ lb. fine lean bacon, 
with a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of fresh lemon-peel, 
2 or 3 onions, 3 blades of mace, and a dessertspoonful of 
white pepper. Boil all till the meat falls quite to pieces, 
and strain. 

Trout 

Roast Prairie Chickens, with sweet potatoes, rice, and 
beets, spiced currants. 

Sock. — One lb. rump steak, do. pork steak, \ loaf 
of bread. Chop together like sausage-meat, add 2 eggs, 
and season with salt, pepper, and sage. Bake like bread, 
and cut in slices. 

Dessert. 

Quaking Pudding. — Scald 1 qt. of cream (or milk), and 
when almost cold add 4 eggs well beaten, 1£ spoonfuls 
of flour, nutmeg, and sugar, Tie it close in a buttered 



WHAT SHALL WK EAT? 109 

cloth, boil one hour, turn it out with care, and serve 
with wine sauce. 

Cranberry Tarts. 

Pears and hickory nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold lamb with tomato catsup. Kidney Fritters. (4 eggs 
well beaten, with a teacup of cream or milk, pepper and 
salt, pounded mace, chopped parsley, and mushrooms, or 
mushroom catsup. Chop the kidneys fine, and mix 
together; pour into a buttered pan, and stir over the 
fire.) Muffins, Graham crackers, bread, quince jelly, ma- 
caroons. Tea. 



WEDNESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Beef hash, salt mackerel broiled, cold 

duck, buckwheat cakes, rolls, boiled hominy. Tea and 

coffee. 

Dinner. 

A Cheap Soup. — Two lbs. lean beef, 6 potatoes, 6 
onions parboiled, a carrot, turnip, head of celery, \ pt. 
split peas, 4 qts. water, some whole pepper, and a red 
herring. Boil well, and rub through a coarse sieve. 
Serve with fried bread. 

Boiled Perch. — Boil quickly with salt, then simmer 
slowly 10 minutes ; melted butter and parsley sauce. 



110 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

Boiled Mutton, butter sauce, with potatoes, onions, 
turnips, and carrots. 

A French Pie. — Lay a puff paste on the edge of a dish, 
put veal in slices with forcemeat balls, and sweetbreads 
cut fine. Add mushrooms, seasoning, cover with gravy, 
a crust, and bake 1 hour. 

Dessert. 

Hasty Pudding. — One qt. milk, while boiling shake 
in 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, and stir till it thickens. 
Put in a deep dish, stir in an oz. of butter, do. sugar, 
and add grated nutmeg. Sugar sauce. 

Floating Island. 

Pears, apples, and dates. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold roast veal, birds stewed and spiced, cold. Po- 
tato Fritters. (Boil 2 large potatoes, scraped fine, 4 eggs, 
1 large spoon of cream, do. wine, a squeeze of lemon, 
and a little nutmeg. Beat the batter £ an hour, and fry 
in boiling lard.) Corn pone", crackers, and cheese, stewed 
pears, dry toast, bread, tea. Seed Cake. (1A- lbs. flour, 1 
lb. sugar, 8 eggs, 1 oz. seeds, 2 spoonfuls yeast, and 
same of milk.) 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? Ill 

THURSDAY. 
Breakfast. — Cold rabbit, minced mutton, poached 
eggs, corn muffins, rice cake, rolls. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Spanish Soup. — Three lbs. "beef, 1 lb. ham, cover well 
with water, boil and skim. Add a teaspoonful pepper, 
simmer 2 hours ; cook separately a cup of rice, onions cut 
small, and cabbage. Eat them separate from the soup 
if desired. 

Roast Oysters. 

Roast Veal, with corn, tomatoes, and baked mashed 

potatoes. 

Reef Steak Rroilecl. 

Dessert. 
Peach Pie. 

Matrimony. — Make ice cream, after the Newport re- 
ceipt, (1 qt. milk, 1 pt. cream, 2 tablespoons corn starch, 
and the yolk of one egg, sweeten and flavor to taste ; 
mix the corn starch in part of the milk, and add the 
egg, then add to the milk, boiling hot. When cool it is 
ready for the freezer, — and mix with fresh, or canned 
peaches ; freeze all together.) 
Grapes, chestnuts, and pears. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Cold roast beef, pickled tripe, crackers with anchovy, 
paste spread on them ; raspberry jam, corn bread, dry 



112 WHAT SHALL WE EAT f 

toast. Sponge Cake. (Break 10 eggs into a deep pan, with 
1 lb. sifted sugar, set the pan into warm water, and beat 
\ of an hour, till the batter is thick and warm. Then 
take out of the water, and whisk till cold. Stir in lightly 
1 lb. flour, and flavor with essence of lemon.) Tea and 
chocolate. 



FRIDAY. 
Breakfast. — Turkey hash on toast, cold ham, sardines, 
scallops fried, cream toast, rolls. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Game Soup. — Take 2 old birds, or pieces left from 
the table, cut fine, with 2 slices of ham, 3 lbs. of beef, a 
piece of celery, and 2 large onions. Put on the fire with 
5 pts. of boiling water, and stew gently for 2 hours. 
Then strain, and put back into the pot with some stewed 
celery, and fried bread, season well, skim, and serve hot. 

Lobster. 

Roast Zamo, with cauliflower, oyster plant, and po« 
tatoes. 

Chicken Pie. — Half boil a large fowl, and cut in 
pieces ; put the broth rich into a deep dish with a hand- 
ful of parsley scalded in milk, and season well. Add 
the fowl, and bake with a raised crust. When done, lift 
the crust, and add \ pt. cream, scalded, with a little but- 
ter and flour in it ; mix well with the gravy. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 113 

Dessert. 
Apple Pie. 

Boiled Rice, in cups, with cream and sugar. 
Apples, pears, and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Dutch herring, raw oysters, cold hock, milk toast, 
Graham bread, stewed apples. Spanish Fritters. (Cut 
French rolls into pieces length of a finger, mix together 
one egg, cream, sugar, and cinnamon, and soak them in 
it. When well soaked, fry a light brown, and serve with 
wine and sugar sauce.) Chocolate, cheese. 



SATURDAY. 

Breakfast. — Beefsteak with mushrooms, cold potted 
game, fried Indian pudding, sausage, toast, rolls. Tea and 
coffee. 

Dinner. 

Venison Soup. — 4 lbs. venison cut in small pieces, 
and stewed gently in brown gravy soup. Strain, and 
serve with French beans cut in diamonds, adding 2 glass- 
es of port wine ; separate from the soup if desired. 

Fried Perch. 

Roast Turkey, cranberry sauce, with potatoes, beets, 
and squash. 



114 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

Irish Stew. — 5 thick mutton chops, 2 lbs. potatoes, 
peeled and cut in halves, 6 onions sliced, and seasoning. 
Put a layer of potatoes at the bottom of the pan, then 
a couple of chops, "and some onions; then another similar 
Add 3 gills of gravy, and 2 teasponfuls mushroom catsup. 
Cover close, and stew 1^ hours. A small slice of han? 
is an addition. 

Dessert. 

Baked Apple Dumplings. 

Blancmange. 

Fruit and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold tongue, pickled fish, French bread, boiled rice 
stewed prunes, Ginger Pound-cake. (1 lb. butter, do. 
sugar, do. flour, 8 eggs, and 2 tablespoons yellow ginger.) 
Tea and coffee. 



SUNDAY. 
. Breakfast. — Cold roast turkey, ham cake, anchovy, 
toast, fried samp, buckwheat cakes, brown bread, gems. 
Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 
Tomato Soup. — Plain beef soup, with 2 cups of fresh 
or canned tomatoes / well seasoned. 
Boiled Cod, oyster sauce. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 115 

Roast Dach, with currant jelly, sweet potatoes, cau- 
liflower, spinach, and stewed potatoes. 
Boiled Ham. 

Dessert. 
Mince Pie. 
Delicate Dish. 
Graphs, apples, and almonds. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Broiled salmon, cold corned beef, Boston crackers, with 
tomato catsup, waffles, dry toast, preserved grapes, as- 
sorted cakes. Tea. 



DECEMBER. 

MONDAY. 

Breakfast. — Fried chicken, cream sauce, potatoes a. la 
maitre d' hotel, baked beans, brown bread, rolls, dry 
toast. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Ox-tail Soup.— Cut up 2 ox-tails, separating them at 
the joints; fry them with butter, together with 4 lbs. of 
gravy beef, a carrot, turnip, 3 onions, a leek, a head of 
celery, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; add a pint of water, 
and a teaspoonful of peppercorns ; stir over the fire till 
the pan is covered with a glaze ; fill up the pot with 3 



116 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

qts. of water, and when it boils set it where it will sim- 
mer until the tails are tender, then trim them and lay . 
aside. GHit some turnips and carrots in fancy shapes 
(about \ a pt. of the two), 2 doz. button onions, and a 
head of celery ; boil them in a little soup till quite ten- 
der; strain off the soup through a fine napkin, add the 
vegetables and tails, and season with salt, pepper, and a 
small piece of lump sugar. 

Sea-lass, hitter sauce. 

Broiled Chicken, oyster sauce ; with potatoes, cauli- 
flower, and lima beans. 

Venison Steak. 

Dessert. 

Tapioca Pudding. — Simmer 4 oz. tapioca in a pint of 
milk, ten minutes ; then add ^ pt. cream, a teaspoonful 
pounded cinnamon 4 oz. butter warmed, same of white 
sugar, and yolks of 4 eggs well beaten ; a little oil of 
almonds will improve the flavor. Bake half an hour. 

Custard Pie. 

Pears, grapes, and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Pickled shad, cold mutton, clam fritters (make a 
batter as for common fritters,* and stir in the clams 
chopped fine), steam toast, crackers, French bread, quince 
marmalade, cream cake, (1 lb. of flour, do. sugar, lj lbs. 
of butter, £ pt. milk, 4 eggs, citrons, raisins and spice.) 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 117 

TUESDAY. 
Breakfast. — Cold venison pie, fried scallops, fried 
sweet potatoes, cream toast, potted fish, rolls. Chocolate 

and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Macaroni Sou}). — : A plain beef soup with Italian 
macaroni boiled in it. 

Frostfisli fried. 

Roast Beef with baked potatoes, spinach, and beets. 

Chicken Croquettes. — Take the white meat and chop 
fine, with bread crumbs, sage leaves, pepper and salt, and 
one egg. Roll into balls and fry. 

Dessert. 
Plum Budding. — One lb. stoned raisins, do. currants, 
do. fresh beef suet chopped fine, 2 oz. sweet almonds, and 
1 of bitter, blanched and pounded ; mix together with 

1 lb. flour, do. bread crumbs, soaked in milk (squeezed 
dry, and reduced to a mash before mixing with the flour) , 

2 oz. each of citron, preserved orange and lemon peel, 
and h oz. mixed spice (2 wine-glasses of brandy should 
be poured over the fruit and spice, mixed together, and 
allowed to stand 3 or 4 hours before the pudding is 
made), £ lb. moist sugar beaten with 8 eggs ; stir all in 
the pudding, and make it thin enough with milk — con- 
sistence of good batter. It must be tied in a cloth, and 



118 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

will take five hours' constant boiling. When done, sift 
loaf sugar over the top, and serve with wine sauce. 

Or erne a la vanille. — Boil \ a stick of vanilla in \ pt. 
of new milk until it has a high flavor ; have ready dis> 
solved in water 1 oz. of isinglass, mix with the milk, 
and 1^ pts. of fine cream ; sweeten with fine sugar, and 
whip until quite thick, then pour into the mould, and 
sot in a cool place. 

Pears, grapes, and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Potted game, sardines, cold chicken, cracker toast, 
rolls, stewed prunes, bread cake. 



WEDNESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Veal cutlets, fried scallops, boiled hominy, 

cold boiled ham, rolls, flour griddle- cakes. Tea and 

coffee. 

Dinner. 

Cottage Soup. — Two lbs. lean beef cat into small 
pieces, \ lb. bacon, 2 lbs. mealy potatoes, 3 oz, rice, car- 
rots, turnips, and onions sliced, or leeks and cabbage. 
Fry the meat, onions and cabbage in butter or dripping, 
and then put them in a gallon of water, to stew gently 
for 3 hours, putting in the rice, carrots, and turnips only 
long enough to allow them to get well done. Mash the 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 119 

potatoes, and pass through a colander, season well, and 
keep closely covered. It will make 5 pts. of excellent 
soup, at small cost. 

Stewed Eels. — Cut the eels in pieces, fry until brown, 
then let them cool. Take an onion, some parsley, a sage 
leaf chopped, and put them in some gravy with a clove, 
blade of mace, pepper and salt, a glass of port wine, and 
a little lemon-juice. Strain the sauce, thicken with 
butter and flour, add a little catsup, and stir the eels 
until tender. 

Roast Lamb, mint sauce, with mashed potatoes baked, 

macaroni baked with cheese, and turnips. 

Cold Quail pate. 

Dessert. 

Swiss Pudding. — Put layers of bread crumbs and 
sliced apples, with sugar between, till the dish is full. 
Let the crumbs be uppermost, then put butter warmed 
over it, and bake. 

Squash Pie. — One qt. pulp strained, 1 qt. milk, with 
the squash stirred in when boiling, with two spoonfuls 
flour, 2 eggs, piece of butter size of an egg, season to 
taste with sugar, cinnamon, and a little salt. 

French chestnuts boiled, and pears. 
Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold game pie, cold roast beef, fried Indian pudding, 
toast, blackberry jam, cheese, bread and butter; jelly 



120 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

cake (make three or four thin sheets of cup cake, 1 cup 
butter, 2 of sugar, 8 of flour, and 4 eggs, £ teaspoonful 
of soda, and 1 of cream of tartar, latter shaken in thft 
flour dry, and spread with jelly, laying one over the 
other). Chocolate. 



THURSDAY. 

Breakfast. — Lamb chops, fried oysters, cold tongue, 
corn pone, Graham biscuit, rolls. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner, 

Gravy Soap. — Lean beef in the proportion of 1 pt. 
water to 1 lb. meat, and 2 oz. of ham ; cover with water 
and simmer for 3 hours, during which time it must not 
boil, as the' pores of the meat will then be opened and 
the gravy drawn, throw in 3 qts. of warm water, with 
\ oz. each of pepper, allspice, and salt, as well as sweet 
herbs, cloves, 2 or 3 carrots and turnips, together with 
2 heads of celery, and boil all slowly till the meat is 
done to rags. Strain it well. It will keep well. 

Fried Perch. 

Roast Chich?is, with cauliflower, boiled rice, and 
sweet potatoes ; cranberry sauce. 

Calf's Brains, fried in batter. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 121 

Dessert. 

Lemon Pie. 

Charlotte Basse. — Line the bottom of a mold with 
Savoy biscuits, or sponge cakes, and fill it with any kind 
of cream, according to taste. 

Apples, grapes, and hickory nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Ham cake, cold birds, omelet, crackers, corn bread, 
rolls, stewed pears ; cheese cake, (J lb. butter, do. sugar, 
beaten together, 4 eggs, \ pt. milk with half the egg 
boiled together till it becomes a curd, stirred with a 
knife, with 2 oz. grated bread thrown in. Stir all into 
the butter and sugar, with the rest of the egg, and add 
£ lb. currants, \ glass wine or brandy, and teaspoonful 
of cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg mixed. Bake in a paste 
2- an hour.) 



FRIDAY. 



Breakfast. — Chicken hash, sausage toast, minced salt 
codfish with potatoes, fried hominy, Indian griddle-cakes, 
bread and butter, toast. Tea and coffee. 



Dinner. 



Chicken broth, with rice. 
Striped Bass, broiled. 
6 



122 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

Roast Goose, with apple-sauce, tomatoes, potatoes, 
and beets ; chow-chow pickle. 

Broiled Oysters. 

Dessert. 

Baked Indian Pudding. — Boil a pint of milk, and into 
it stir 1 cup meal, do. molasses, one teaspconful salt, 
first mixed with a little cold milk; boil it, and pour it 
into a deep earthenware pot, well buttered, and with a 
pint of cold milk in it ; add one egg and a teaspoonful of 
ginger. Bake in a slow oven. 

Wine Jelly. 

Oranges, filbert^ and dates. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Boned turkey, sardines, cold roast chicken, brown 
bread, milk toast, bread, crackers and cheese, stewed 
peaches, La Galette cake (1 lb. of flour, do. butter, 
2 eggs ; knead all into a paste, and make the size of a 
dessert plate ; put in the oven ^ of an hour, then take it 
out, beat up 2 more eggs with a little cream and salt, 
pour over the cake, and bake J of an hour more). 



SATURDAY. 
Breakfast. — Cold roast goose, head cheese,' corned beef 
hash, stewed potatoes, steam toast, mufiins, bread. Tea 
and coffee. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 123 

Dinner. 

Potato Soup. — Take large mealy potatoes, peel and 
cut in small slices, with an onion ; boil in 3 , pts. water 
till tender, and pulp through a colander. Add a small 
piece of butter, a little cayenne pepper, and salt, and just 
before the soup is served 2 spoonfuls of good cream. It 
must not boil after the cream is put in. 

Roast Oysters, on toast. 

Boiled Corned Beef, with rice croquettes, potatoes, and 
cabbage. 

Partridges roasted ; currant jelly. 

Dessert. 
Peach Pic. 

Cream Meringues. — (From the Confectioner.) 
Oranges and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cliiclen Salad. — (Cut the meat from 2 fowls^ boiled or 
roasted, in pieces not exceeding an inch ; white part of 2 
large bunches of celery in the same way, mix together 
cover, and set away. Mash the yolks of 9 hard boiled 
eggs to a paste, and mix with ^ pt. sweet oil, do. vine- 
gar, a gill mustard, a teaspoonful cayenne, and one of 
salt. Stir till well mixed and smooth. Then set away. 
Five minutes before the salad is wanted, pour the dressing 
on, and mix well). Cold veal, boiled rice, rolls and 



124 WHAT SHALL «WE EAT ? 

"bread, canned peaches. French Cake — Bolas d'Amor (1£ 
lbs. flour, 1 cup yeast, ^ pt. milk warmed, 1 lb. butter, 
4 eggs. Make a hole in the flour, and pour in the milk, 
eggs, and yeast. Mix all together, beating in the butter 
by degrees, and let it stand an hour to rise. Mix in ^ 
lb. sifted stigar ; ornament with citron). Tea and choco- 
late. 



SUNDAY. 
Breakfast. — Broiled ham, cold roast pork, chipped po- 
tatoes, buckwheat cakes, gems, rolls. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Winter Soup. — 2 carrots, do. turnips, and the heart 
of a head of celery. Cut into small pieces with 6 button 
onions, and half boil in salt and water, with a little su- 
gar, then throw into a rich beef broth. Add small 
dumplings boiled in water, just before serving. 

Fried Trout. 

Stewed Chickens — With macaroni stewed, and pota- 
toes. Cut in pieces and scald, fry in butter with sweet 
herbs chopped, pepper and salt, and add boiling water 
and flour. Stew until cooked, and add a tablespoon of 
cream, yolk of an egg, and a little lemon juice. 

Quail on Toast. 

Dessert. 

Batter Pudding. — 1 qt. milk, 6 eggs, 14 tablespoons 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT t 125 

flour, a little salt. Boil 1 hour and 10 minutes; cold 
wine sauce. 

Brandy Peaches. 

Prunes, grapes, and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Cold beef, partridge pate, steam toast, muffins ; pre- 
served plums, bread, tea, cookies (1 cup butter, 2 sugar, 
5 flour, 1 egg, 4 tablespoons milk, and spice). 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 127 



APPENDIX 



Pickles and Sauces.— Avoid all use of metal vessels 
in their preparation, use wooden spoons, and keep in 
wide-mouthed bottles. 

To Pickle small Cucumbers. — Take one hundred— -in Sep- 
tember— place in a deep stone jar, sprinkle with a pint of 
salt, pour on boiling water, and cover tight, that no steam 
evaporate. Let them stand twenty-four hours. Wipe 
each one dry with a cloth. 

Place in an unglazed jar, and cover with boiling vine- 
gar, spiced, with cloves, whole pepper and mace. Eat 
after two weeks. The same proportion for any number. 

To Pickle Cauliflower.— -Strip off the leaves, quarter 
the stalk, and scald in salt and water till soft ; dry on 
a sieve, and cut in small pieces after twenty-four hours; 
place in a jar, and cover with cold spiced vinegar : seal up. 

To Pickle Eggs.— Boil hard, twelve or more, and lay 
into cold water ; peel off the shells, and lay whole into 
a stone jar, with mace, cloves, and nutmegs. Fill up 
with boiling vinegar, cover close ; after three days scald 
the vinegar again, and pour over ; cork tight. Use in 
two weeks. 



128 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

To Piclcle Mushrooms. — Clean, and place in layers 
sprinkled with salt, for two days ; add whole black pep- 
per and spice ; cover close, and set in a cool oven for an 
hour. Strain off the liquor, and add cloves, mace, and 
allspice. Let it boil, then throw the mushrooms in, set 
away till cold, then add a little vinegar, and pot. 

To Pickle Walnuts. — Gather about the middle of 
July ; prick with a needle, and put into water for three 
days, changing the water every day. Make a strong brine 
of salt and water, boil and skim ; when cold, take one 
gallon to every hundred walnuts. Let them stand six (6) 
days, change the water, and leave six days more. Drain, 
and expose to the sun, so they may turn black. Make 
a strong pickle of wine vinegar, flavored with cloves, 
mace, whole pepper, mustard-seedj and horse-radish. 
Allow to every hundred walnuts, six spoonfuls of mus- 
tard-seed, with one of whole pepper. They will be good 
for years ; not fit for use for six months, however. 

To Pickle Lemons. — Take the finest, with thick rinds ; 
cut incisions, and fill them with salt. Put on a dish, 
and lay near the fire, or in a hot sun ; repeat the opera- 
tion several times. 

Make a pickle of the best of cider vinegar, spiced 
with cloves, allspice and ginger, and pour over when 
cold ; bottle tight, and keep for years. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 129 

Walnut Vinegar. — Put walnut shells into a strong 
brine for ten days, then lay in fhe sun for a week to dry. 
Place in jar, and cover with boiling vinegar. In ten 
days pour it off, and boil again. Then stand for a month, 
and it will be fit for use ; excellent for cold meat, and 
flavoring sauces. 

Cucumber Vinegar. — Pare and slice fifteen large ones; 
place in a stone jar, with three pints of vinegar, four large 
onions also sliced, two large spoonfuls of salt, three tea- 
spoonfuls of pepper, and one half a one of cayenne ; 
after standing four days, boil, and strain when cold, and 
bottle. 

Sauce Universal- — Take one pint mushroom catsup, 
one glass of port-wine, and a teaspoonful of vinegar, one 
do. black pepper, Fait, allspice, and minced onion. Set it 
in a jar in water, increasing the heat to 90° Fahrenheit ; 
stand twenty-four hours. Then after one week strain 
and bottle ; a great addition to gravies. 

To Flavor Vinegar. — Take any kind of fruit, or herb, 
and boil in it a short time, and bottle when cold ; a great 
addition to cutlets. 
I 

Jersey Pickle. — Slice and chop one peck green tomatos, 
six peppers and four onions; throw over them one cup of 
6* 



130 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

salt, and let them stand twenty-four hours ; then drain, 
and put into a stewpan, c<Tver with the best of cider vin- 
egar, stewing slowly. Add one cup brown sugar, two 
spoonfuls horse-radish grated, one of powdered cloves, one 
of allspice, one of cinnamon, and boil full three hours ; 
bottle in wide-mouthed jar, and seal. 

Chile Sauce. — Three peppers chopped fine, seeds in- 
cluded ; one large onion, twelveriipe tomatoes, peeled ; one 
tablespoonful of salt, one of sugar, one teaspoonful of all- 
spice, do. cloves, do. ginger, do. nutmeg, two tea-cups of 
best of vinegar ; boil well one hour and bottle. 

Tomato Catsup. — One gallon of skinned tomatoes, 
boiled and strained ; then add, four tablespoonfuls of salt, 
four tablespoons of black pepper, two of allspice, two of 
cinnamon i one of red pepper pure, one quart wine vine- 
gar ; boil well one hour, bottle and seal, when cold. 
Keep in a dry place. 

Mushroom Catsup. — Break up the mushrooms, scrap- 
ing off the dirt with a knife ; place in layers in an earthen 
pan, sprinkling with salt. Cover the pan with a towel, 
for twenty four hours, rub them up, and strain through a 
muslin, squeezing out all the juice. To every quart add 
one tablespoonful of black peppers, whole, one teaspoonful 4 
of allspice, one half do. of cayenne, one dozen cloves, and 
four large blades of mace ; boil slowly four hours, pour 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 131 

into a bowl or deep dish to settle for twenty-four hours, 
covered. Then pour gently through a fine hair-seive, 
and put into small bottles, putting in the top of each one 
a few drops of olive-oil and sealing the cork ; it will keep 
for years, in a cool place. 



98 and Confectionery. — Every article of this 
kind should be made of the best of sugar, and small 
fruits for jams, previously boiled to evaporate the 
watery particles, before adding the requisite amount. 
The following is the best method we have seen for pre- 
serving fruit. 

Melt one pound of sugar in one half -pint of water, 
and put into every quart-bottle of fruit. Place the 
bottles in boiler, or steaming-box, in cold water, raising 
the heat to boiling point : have ready corks steamed so 
as to be flexible, force them by blows from a mallet. 
Pare the" corks close to the bottle. Have ready a vessel 
of melted sealing wax, of the following ingredients : One 
pound of rosin, three ounces beeswax, one and a half of 
tallow ; have ready a brush, and cover the corks, then 
dip the, mouth into the melted wax; then transfer it to a 
cold basin of water. Repeat the operation, and see that 
the wax is smooth and complete. Pack away in a cool, 
dry cellar,. excluding all light. Examine after one week, 
to see if there were flaws in the bottle ; or any marks of 



132 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

fermentation. Peaches and pears should be dropped 
into cold water, to prevent their color changing after 
paring. 

To Keep Grapes in Brandy.— Hake large, close bunches, 
black or white ; lay them in a jar, put the weight of 
them in powdered sugar over them, and cover with 
brandy. Tie down with a bladder ; prick the grapes with 
a pin, first, 

To preserve Strawberries in Wine.— Put large fine 
ones in a wide-mouthed bottle, strew over with fine sugar, 
fill up with Madeira wine or Sherry. 

To preserve Oranges or Lemons in Jelly. — Make a hole 
the size of a shilling, and scrape the pulp out clean ; lay 
in soft water for two days, then boil tender, slowly ; to 
every pound of fruit, take two of sugar, and one pint of 
water ; boil with the juice to a syrup, then boil the fruit 
in the syrup half an hour. 

Marmalades— Boil ripe apricots in syrup ; beat in a 
mortar, take half their weight in loaf sugar, and water to 
dissolve it ; boil well together till thick. 

Orange Compote. —Lay the oranges in water four 
hours, boil till tender, cut in halves, and take out the in- 
sides.; to every pound of peel, well pounded, add one of 



WHAT SHAM, WE EAT? 133 

sugar ; take out the seeds, add the weight in sugar to 
that, and beat ; mix and pot. 

To dry Cherries without Sugar. — Stone, and set them 
over the fire, letting*them simmer in their own liquor ; 
let them get cold; give them another scald, and spread 
on sieves to dry, in a cool oven. 

Orange Syrup. — Take large, deep-coloured oranges, 
and throw into water for twelve hours ; put into a cloth 
and boil, cut in quarters ; and after taking out the pulp, 
throw into cold water. Make a thick syrup, and add 
the pulp. 

Colouring for Jellies. — For yellow, yolk of eggs, or a 
bit of saffron steeped in the liquid. For green, spinach 
leaves, or beet leaves. For red, beet root sliced. 

Bonbons. — Clear off the sugar from fresh candied 
citron ; cut into squares one inch thick, stick on a bit of 
wire, and dip into liquid syrup ; wet a dish with a few 
drops of pure olive oil, and lay the fruit to cool. 

Toffie. — Melt in a stewpan, three ounces of butter, 
add one pound of moist sugar, stir well over a slow fire, 
boil one quarter of an hour ; pour out on buttered dishes, 
and mark in squares. 

Candied Fruit. — When boiled in the syrup, put a 



134 WHAT SHALL. WE EAT? 

layer on a new sieve, and dip it suddenly into hot water, 
drain, and cover with sifted sugar ; dry in a warm oven, 
turning over frequently. 

Raspberry or Blackberry Vinegar. -'-Take, a jar of vine- 
gar and fill with fruit ; let it stand for three days : strain, 
and for every pint of juice, add one pound of sugar ; boil 
up once, and skim ; bottle and seal. 



FINIS. 



Jtotnam'0 JfTontyly Jttaga?it« 



LITERATURE, SCIENCE, ART, 



NATIONAL INTERESTS. 



The re-issue of Putnam's Magazine has been hailed with acclamation in 
every section of the country, and the publishers are gratified at being able to 
acknowledge almost innumerable expressions of pleasure and good-will from 
readers and friends of the first series of " Putnam's Monthly." It is their 
purpose, in their new enterprise, to leave nothing undone to meet the expecta- 
tions and desires of the public. 

Putnam's Magazine will be a National Publication, supported by the 
best writers, in each department, from every section of the country. High 
toned papers on matters of National Interest, Popular Science, In 
dustrial Pursuits, and sound Information and Instruction on impor- 
tant topics, will be especially cultivated. In the lighter articles, healthy enter- 
tainment and Pure Amusement for the family circle will be carefully chosen 
from the ample resources presented by a large circle of contributors. 

TERMS: 
$4.00 per Annum in Advance, or 35 cents per number. Two copies to one 
address, $7.00; three copies to one address, $10.00 ; ten copies to one address, 
$30.00. Putnam's Magazine and Riverside Magazine for Young People 
(price $2.50) for $5.50 ; Putnam's Magazine and The Round Table (price 
$6.00) for $8.00. Or with any other Journal or Magazine in the same propor- 
tion. 
Special Premiums for Clubs. 

G. P. PUTNAM & SON, Publishers, 

661 Broadway, New York. 



" The delight of childhood, the chivalric companion of re- 
fined womanhood, the solace of life at every period ; 
his writings are an imperishable legacy of grace 
and beauty to his countrymen." 



New Editions of Irvincs Works. 

THREE EDITIONS ISSUED MONTHLY. 

I. THE KNICKERBOCKER EDITIOjV.—Lzrge 
121110, on superfine laid paper, with Illustrations, elegantly 
printed from new stereotype plates, and bound in extra 
cloth, gilt top. Price to subscribers for the whole set, 
$2.25 per vol. Half calf, extra, $3.75. 

*** This edition will be sold only to subscribers for the whole set- It is the 
best edition for libraries and for the centre-table. 

II. THE RIVERSIDE EDITION.— i6mo, on fine 
white paper ; from new stereotype plates ; green crape 
cloth, gilt top, bevelled edges, $1.75 per vol. 

III. THE PEOPLE'S EDITION.— -From the same 
stereotype plates as above, but printed on cheaper paper, 
neatly bound in cloth ; price, $1.25 per vol. 

The issue of the above several editions was commenced Oetober i, 1867. 
A volume will be issued punctually on the first day of each month, until the 
whole series is completed, iu the following order : 



Bracebvicke Hall (Ready). 
Wolfert's RBost, 
Sketch Book, 
Traveller, " 

Knickerbocker (Feb.). 
Crayon Miscellany (Mar.). 



Goldsmith (April). 
Alhambra (May). 
Columbus, 3 vols. 
Astoria. 
Bonneville. 
Mahomet, 2 vols. 



Granada. 
Salmagundi. 
Spanish Papers. 
Miscellanies. 
Washington, 5 vols. 
Life and Letters, 4 vols. 



The re-issue of these works in their several forms is unusually elegant. 
The plates are new, the paper superior, the printing elegant, and each, in pro- 
portion to price, combining good taste with econolny. 



G. P. Putnam & Son. 



Alvord, and bound in rich morocco, by Matthews, 
In one quarto volume, morocco, $18.00; half mor., gill 
top, $16.00 ; cloth, full gilt, $15.00. 

IRVING'S TRAVELLER. Tales of a Traveller. By 
Geoffrey Crayon,- Gent. Author's revised edition. In 
one volume. Sunnyside Ed. i2mo., $2.50. Illust. ed. 
i2mo., mor., $6,00, 8vo., $8.00. Riverside Edition, 
i6mo., $1.75 ; full gilt, $2.00. 

Has always been one of the most popular of Irving's productions, and is 
not destined to lose the place it so soon acquired in the estimation of the 
world. — Boston Traveller. 

IRVING'S WOLFERT'S ROOST. Wolfert's Roost 
and other Papers, now first collected by Washington 
Irving. In one volume, i2mo. Sunnyside Edition, 
cloth, $2.50. Riverside Edition, cloth, $1.75. 

The papers in the present volume are among his latest and most charming 
productions. — Chicago Tribune. 

MAGA STORIES. Comprising Seventeen Nota- 
ble Stories of varied character and lively interest, 
chiefly from Putnavfs Monthly. i6mo. paper, 75 cts. ; 
cloth extra, bevelled, $1.25. 

MAGA SOCIAL PAPERS.—" Pithy and entertaining;" 
On a variety of topics relating to Society, Manners, 
Customs, and Habits of the time. By several hands. 
First contributed to Putnanfs Monthly. i6mo. paper, 
^5 cts. ; cloth extra, bevelled, gilt tops, $1.25. 

MAGA EXCURSION PAPERS. Including Seventeen 
spirited and lively Sketches of Travel in two hemi- 
spheres and elsewhere. i6mo. paper, 75 cts. ; cloth 
extra, bevelled, $1.25. 

MAGA PAPERS ON PARIS. By H. T. Tuckerman. 
i6mo. paper, 60 cts. ; cloth extra, $1.00. 

*** The above volumes are neatly printed in new and legible tyre, and will 
be found to be capital books for the fireside and for travellers. 



20 Publications of 

WHAT IS FREE TRADE? By Emile Walter, 
121110. $1.00. 

" An unanswerable, argument against the follies of pro- 
tection, and a stinging satire on the advocates of that 
policy, which would enrich us by doubling our expenses. 
Wit and sarcasm of the sharpest and brightest sort are 
used by the author with great effect." — N. Y. Citizen. 

" The most telling statements of the leading principles 
of the free trade theory ever published, and is, perhaps, 
unsurpassed in the happiness of its illustrations." — The 
Nation. . 

i ' '^pUCKERMAN'S PAPERS ABOUT PARIS 
are very timely at present, when everybody 
who is not in Paris is wishing he was, or is glad he isn't ; 
and these racy letters, though not exactly an Exposition, 
afford one many a clear and pleasant bit of sight-seeing.' 
— Portland Christian Mirror. 



M 



AGA EXCURSION PAPERS. $1.25. 



" This is one of the series of Putnam's Railway Clas- 
sics, made up of delightful reading. * * * Instructing 
as well as entertaining." — Free Press, Easton, Pa. 



M 



AGA SOCIAL PAPERS. $1.25. 



" Putnam's Magazine was the repository of some of the 
choicest literary articles ever published in this country, 
and from this treasury come the fifteen papers gathered 
under one cover," — Chicago Journal. 



G. P. Putnam & Son. 21 

NATURAL THEOLOGY; 01, Nature and the 
Bible from the same Author.. Lectures delivered 
before the Lowell Institute, Boston. By P. A. Chad- 
bourne, A.M., M.D., President of University of Wis- 
consin. i2mo, cloth, $2.00. Student's edition, $1.75. 

" This is a valuable contribution to current literature, and will be found 
adapted to the uses of the class-room.in college, and to the investigations of 
private students." — Richmond Christian Adv. 

" The warm, fresh breath»of pure and fervent religion pervades these elo- 
quent pages." — Am. Baptist. 

" Prof. Chadbourne's book is among the few mataphysical ones now pub- 
lished, which, once taken up, cannot be laid aside unread. It is written in a 
perspicuous, animated style, combining depth of thought and grace of diction, 
with a -total absence of ambitious display." — Washington Natiotial Repzibli- 
can. 

" In diction, method, and spirit, the volume is attractive and distinctive to a 
rare degree." — Boston Traveller. 

BENEDICITE ; or, Illustrations of the Power, Wis- 
dom, and Goodness of God in the Creation. By 
G. Chaplin Child, M.D. i2mo, cloth, extra, gilt top, 
$2 50 ; red edges, $2.50 ; gilt edges, $3.00 ; morocco an- 
tique, $5.00. 

" Written in an easy and flowing style, abounding in illustrations*and inci- 
dents, the book cannot fail to interest as well as instruct. The getting-up of 
the volume is exceedingly tasteful and elegant." — Journal and Messenger. 

" The most admirable popular treatise of natural theology. It is no extrav- 
agance to say that we have never read a more charming book, or one which 
we can recommend more confidently to our readers with the assurance that it 
will aid them, as none that we know of can do, to 

' Look through Nature up to Nature's God.' 

Every clergyman would do well particularly to study this book. For the rest, 
the handsome volume is delightful in appearance, and is one of the most cred- 
itable specimens of American book-making that has come from the Riverside 
"Press."— Round Table, N. Y., June i. 

THE GHOST— A Story. By W. D. O'Connor. 
With two illustrations by Nast. i6mo, $1.25; 
gilt edges, $1.50. 

" Told with a tender-heartedness and naturalness of style which are certain 
to make it a favorite." — Brooklyn Union. 

"Rich in sweetness, pathos, and tender humanity." — Providence Jour' 
nal. 

" If he has other stories of this sort, we beg him to bring them to lighl 
without delay." — Boston Watchman. 



22 Publications of 

NEW AND IMPORTANT EDUCATIONAL WORK. 



FAY'S GREAT OUTLINE OF GEOGRAPHY 
FOR HIGH SCHOOLS AND FAMILIES. 
The texf-book in i2mo; the Atlas in large folio. Retail 
price, $375 ; Library edition, in cloth, $4.25. Liberal 
terms for schools. Teachers supplied with a copy for 
examination at half price. 

" The author of this work presents the public with an entirely new system 
of studving Geography. We confess the plan strikes us with great favor. 
Without disparaging other text-books, we must say, this seems to us to be 
more exactly adapted to its purpose than any. * * * * The mechani- 
cal execution of the Atlas deserves strong praise. If you have a child who 
is hard to karn Geography, or one who wishes to learn it easier, or if you 
wish to undertake a resume of your own knowledge, or add to what you 
already know, Fay's system is the way to do it, and his Great Outline the 
means. The most stupid will find that knowledge would be instilled into 
them in spite of themselves." — Albany Evening Journal. 

" The treatise of Mr. Fay is complete in itself. He gives a well-constructed 
Atlas of the globe, and with it a little manual containing a series of lessons on 
the maps, with occasional illustrative comments. _ This careful map-study; em- 
bracing physical as well as political characteristics, may serve either as an in- 
troduction to geography or as a final review or resume of one's knowledge. 
In either case it is adapted to the older scholars of our ordinary schools. The 
plan which it proposes seems to us very well carried out ; and simple as the 
' Outline i at first appears, we have been surprised to discover its comprehen- 
siveness and completeness. Obviously the book may be used advantageously 
before or after other books. There is one feature of the book which has par- 
ticularly interested us, bearing, as we presume, the impress of Mr. Fay's long 
acquaintance with German schools. It is intended that the scholar shall learn 
his lessons under the eye and with the aid of his teacher, who is to drill the 
class. Most of our American teachers do not teach, but hear recitations. Mr. 
Fay would have them go over each lesson with the class, and see that all its 
contents are mastered. 

" Mr. Fay's maps and text ar»brought down to the latest moment. Alaska 
belongs to the United States, the reconstructed North Germany is delineated, 
and the statistics are gathered from Behm's admirable ' Hand-book,' and 
other recent publications." — TJie Nation, N. Y. 

" Boston, December 24.' 

" The- Atlas is better in execution than any School Atlas I have ever seen." 
— W. P. Atkinson, Prof, in Mass. Inst, of TecJmology. 

" Fay's Geography seems to meet a want not met by any existing works, 
and its execution is highly creditable to author and publishers." — Abner J. 
Phipps, Agent of Mass. Board of Education. 

" Of the mechanical part of the work, maps, printing, etc., there can be but 
one opinion. Nothing of the kind yet published surpasses it." — Eben S. 
Stearns, N. Y. State Normal School,. Albany. 

" I think Mr. Fay's Geography ought to supersede all others now i^i use. 
The opinion of Baron von Humboldt is enough to stamp its value anywhere." 
—John Catlin. 



ALBERT R- MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 



Fred A. (Ben) Williams '50 

Preservation Fund at 

Mann Library 




lis 

\Js^s-S 



COi 






Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924090117783 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 



annal for Ijoitsduejim. 



COiMPltlSING 

A BILL OF FAKE FOR DREAKFAST, DINNER, AND TEA, FOIt EVEUY 

DAY IN THE YEAR. 



WITH AN 

APPEJ^DIX, 

CONTAIMNQ RECIPES FOR PICKLES AND SAUCES. 



NEW YORK: 

G. P. PUTNAM k SON, 661 BKOADWAY. 

1868. 



Entebed, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1868, by 
GEORGE P. PUTNAM & Son., 
In ino Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the 
Simlheru District of New York. 



PEEFAOE. 



WHAT SHAIiI. WE EAT? 

The design of this Manual is to suggest to 
ladies, without the- trouble of thinking, what is 
seasonable for the table, each day in the week, 
and how it shall be cooked. Also to present to 
the community of housekeepers, who sigh over the 
responsibility of providing for the daily wants of 
life, an agreeable variety, which may be varied to 
suit the income of the reader. The receipts have 
all been tested by actual experience. A daily 
'• bill of fare " for breakfast, dinner, and tea is 
given, for one week in each mouth, which will 
present to the reader at once what is wanted, 
without the trouble of looking over a cook-book. 
A collection of Pickles and Sauces of rare merit 
form a desirable addition at the end. 



BKB AKFAST. 



A WORD on this early meal. It should he what will 
best fortify a man for the labor of a long day, and 
should consist of palatable solids. In a chilly climate 
like America, wine is a mistake, even with French 
cookery ; if strong, it diminishes business keenness ; if 
weak, it imparts no warmth. Instinct points to hot 
beverages, either coffee, tea, or chocolate. Every va- 
riety of cold "meats, game, potted meats, and fish, 
tongue, boar's head, pickled poultry, etc., are suitable, 
and with bread form a desirable meal. Omelets, sar- 
dines, and roes of different fish, hot buttered cakes, etc., 
make the eater heavy for the day. There is really no 
time when one needs so good a supply of food as at 
brea,kfast, when one has not eaten for twelve or fourteen 
hours, and fuel is needed for active existence ; yet no 
meal is so much neglected, and people well informed 
fritter an appetite away on toast and tea. Fruit is a good 
digester, dried mango-fish from India, cranberry jam, etc., 
are all good. A breakfast should be as carefully com- 
posed as a dinner. Secure by art what is due to the 
dignity of the meal, and give it its true position. 



INDEX, 



PAGE 

A French pio 110 

Almond cake 17 

" custard 23 

*' croquantes 92 

" pudding 48 

Apple Charlotte 101 

" dumplings 44 

" fritterfl 46 

" jelly 37 

*' pie ,23 

" souffle 86 

Apres cake 34 

Arrowroot pudding. 13 

Asparagus soup 68 

Barley broth ." 13 

Baked cod's head S3 

*' Indian pudding 35 

" calf'shead 79 

" batter pudding 02 

" mackerel 39 

" quince pudding 15 

" pike 80 

Bake well pudding 59 

Bean soup 30 

Beef k-la-mode 49 

" collops 56 

" patties 10 

" soup 11 

" ragout , 17 

Beefsteak pudding 70 

Benton tea-cakes 10 

Black bean eoup 43 

Blanc mange 29 

Black plum cake 58 



PAGE 

Blackberry pudding 84 

Boiled perch 109 

Boiled beef, sauce piquant 28 

Bohemian cream 61 

Bolas d'araor 124 

Boned lamb 93 

Bouilli 93 

Bread and butter pudding 91 

" cake 53 

" pudding 21 

Brown biscuit 23 

'* fricasB6e 84 

" bread ice 57 

Bonbons 133 

Brandy pudding 47 

Boiled pigeons 51 

Buns 54 

Buckwheat cakoe 30 

Burnt cream 25 

Calves' -foot jelly 97 

" liver stewed 26 

" brains 72 

Carrot pie 106 

Caramel custard 15 

Candied fruit 133 

Celery soup 19 

Chicken croquettes 117 

" salad 123 

" pillau 22 

" soup 46 

" pot-pie 55 

" pudding 74 

" aia Carmelite 60 

pie 112 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Chicken Boup wilh tomato 20 

" patties 13 

Chile sjmce 130 

Cheap soup 109 

Champagne cream. 86 

Chocolate puddiug 44 

" cream 17 

Charlotte Russe 121 

Cheese-cakes 121 

Clam fritters 126 

" BOup 27 

Croquettes of calfs brains 22 

Cranberry and rice jelly 58 

Crackers with anchovy eauce. . . 47 

« toast 20 

Cream fritters , . 47 

" pudding. 81 

" cake 116 

Cr6m,e au Marasquin 63 

" hl-A vanille 118 

College pudding 26 

Cottage soup 118 

" pudding 41 

Coffee custard 12 

" cakes 75 

Cocoanut pudding 43 

" pie 55 

Codling soup 82 

Cora meal griddle-cakes 19 

" bread 14 

" pone 20 

Cookies 125 

Cold ham cako 16 

Curry of chicken 37 

Cup-cake 16 

Cucumber vinegar 129 

" stewed 73 

Cutlets of sole , 91 

CuBtard cream of chocolate 21 

Coloring for jellies 133 

Damson pudding . 104 

Delicate dish 14 

Duck with peas SO 

Dutch butter 55 



PAGE 

Eel soup 95 

Fish soup IS 

Feather cake 38 

Flemish cream 54 

Flour pudding 10 

French flummeiy. 69 

FricandelB of veal 61 

Game soup 112 

German cake 90 

" pufls 81 

" toast 53 

Geme , 27 

Ginger cup-cake 21 

" pound cake 114 

Giblet 60up 14 

Gloucester pudding 57 

Gooseberry pudding 73 

Green pea BOUp 60 

Green corn 72 

Gravy soup 120 

Harrico soup 106 

Harrison cako 23 

Ham toast 57 

' ' sandwiches 44 

Hasty pudding 110 

Hock 108 

Hot gingerbread 37 

Huckleberry pudding 94 

Italian cream 60 

Ice cream— Newport rceipt... . 82 

Irish stew 114 

Jelly cake 119 

Jersey pickle 129 

Kedgeree 75 

Kidney fritters 109 

" toaet 60 

Kisses 84 

Kringles 44 

La Galette cake 122 

Lamb^B head 41 

" " stewed 87 

Lemon cheese-cakes 67 

" jelly 26 

" pudding 89 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Lomon syllabub 6G 

Lobster pie 66 

" salad 40 

'• soup 85 

Madeira buns 29 

Hatrimony Ill 

Matelote of fish 45 

Miroton of apples 38 

" ofveaL 33 

Mince pie 29 

Macaroni pudding..... 61 

Montagu pudding 52 

Mother Eve's pudding 69 

Mock turtLo. soup 24 

Mutton kebobbed 39 

" kidneys fried 46 

" pillau 63 

Muffins 21 

MuUagatawnee soup 49 

Mushroom catsup 130 

Marmalades 132 

Neat's tougue fricass6e 85 

New Tear's cake 18 

New England chowder, 48 

Orange custard ,, 34 

« butter 65 

" syrup 133 

Oley-cooks 42 

Ox-cheek soup 86 

Ox-tail soup 115 

Oyster soup 9 

Orange compote 132 

Pea soup 16 

Peach pudding 94 

Plain cake 28 

Plum pudding, not rich, 64 

" " rich, 117 

Pigeon pie 43 

" fricassfie 82 

'* with peas... .^ 62 

Pillau of rabbit 97 

Pickles and aauces 127 

Pickled cauliflower 127 

" cucumbciB 127 



PQE 

Pickled eggs 127 

" lemons 128 

" mushrooms 128 

" walnuts 128 

Potted fish 107 

" pigeons 30 

Pomme mange 31 

Poimd-cake ....» 25 

" pudding 32 

Potatoes ft, la maitre d'hotel , . . . 9 

" fritters 110 

" soap 123 

Preserves and confectionery. . . . 131 

Quaking pudding 63 

Queen cake 56 

Kagout of veal 48 

Raspberry cream. 32 

" vinegar 134 

Rhenish cream 38 

Rice croquettes. 71 

*' custards 45 

" griddle-cakes 107 

" cake 31 

" soup 25 

" pudding with fruit 18 

Ris de reau , 27 

RisEolcB 65 

Roastbeef, with YorksliJre pud- 
ding 45 

Roast ham 98 

" lobster 93 

Rolyxioly pudding 96 

Sauce universal 129 

Sausage toast 9 

Seed cake 110 

Scallopped oysters 15 

Scot's kail soup 41 

Scotch cake 12 

Snow cream 59 

Soft boiled custard 83 

Sponge cake 47 

Spongecake 112 

" pudding 107 

Spanish fritters 113 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Spanish soup Ill 

Spiced voal 106 

Squasti pie 12 

Stewed eels 119 

" chickens 124 

" codfish 78 

" terrapin 87 

" beef 91 

" scallops 98 

Soup ilia Bisque. 42 

" JxiUenne 32 

" Creci....- 90 

Sago soup 22 

Soup & la Flaraande 35 

" maigrc 98 

Spring soup 39 

Summer soup 74 

Swiss pudding 119 

Sweetbreads 21 

Swectme t pudding 67 

Strawberi'y jeUy 74 

Tapioca pudding 116 

Toad-in-a-hole 32 

Tipsy pudding 51 

Tomato soup 52 

" catsup : 130 

To flavor vinegar 129 



PAGE 

To keep grapes in brandy. 132 

To preserve strawberries in 

wine 132 

To preserve oranges or lemons 

in jelly 132 

To dry cherries without sugar.. 133 

Toffie 133 

Transparent pudding 99 

Turnip soup 45 

Turtle maigre soup 36 

Turk's cap 26 

Vegetable marrow soup 78 

" toast 54 

'• ragout 75 

" soup.. J 70 

Veal cutlets with rice 09 

" brotb 33 

" cake 28 

Venison soup 113 

Vermicelli soup 28 

"Waffles 11 

Walnut vinegar 129 

Wheat biscuit 34 

White soup 55 

Winter soup 124 

Whipt cream 79 

Winibeg pudding 34 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 



JAIVXJARY. 

MONDAY. 



Brealcfast. — Cold roast beef. Potatoes k la maitrc 
d'Hotel. (Boil the potatoes, and cut in thin slices. 
Take a pint of milk, and when scalding hot, stir in a 
tablespoonful of butter and flour, rubbed together. Add 
a small bunch of parsley, chopped fine. When well 
mixed, throw in the potatoes, shaking carefully without 
a knife or spoon, to avoid breaking. Salt to taste.) 
Sausage toast. (Scald the sausages in boiling water, 
fry to a light brown, chop fine, and spread on buttered 
toast.) Potted fish. Rolls and butter. Tea and cof- 
fee. 

DiNNBE. 

Oyster Soup. — Take fifty oysters, strain through a 

sieve, and put the liquor on the fire. When scalding 

hot, take ^ lb. of butter, and beat with 6 oz. of flour ; 

roll i doz. butter crackers to a powder, and add all to 

1* 



10 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

the liquor, with salt and pepper to the taste, and a small 
pinch of powdered mace. Then add the oysters with a 
quart of milk (and a gill of cream if you have it), and 
stir with a silver spoon for ten minutes. Do not let 
them loil, but thoroughly scald. 

Boiled Salibiit. 

lioast Fork. — Serve with apple-sauce, potatoes, and 
tomatoes. Baste with a little butter and flour, and 
rub with dried sage crumbed. 

Beef Fatties. — Chop fine rare roast beef, season with 
pepper, salt, and a little onion. Make a plain paste, 
cut into shapes like an apple puff, fill with the mince, 
and bake quickly. 

Dessert. 

~~j^ Flour Fudding. — Five eggs, 1 qt. milk, 4 tablespoonfuls 
of flour, well stirred together. Bake in a quick oven, 
and eat with cold sauce. 
Fruit and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch, ip the Dinner is late. 

Cold pickled salmon, tongue, bread and butter, can- 
ned peaches, tea and coffee, Benton tea-cakes (1 qt. of 
flour mixed with milk to a paste, 1 tablespoonful of 
melted butter. KoU very thin, and bake on hot hearth). 

Cream cake (1 lb. flour, 1 lb. sugar, i lb. of butter, 
§■ pt. milk, 4 eggs, citron, raisins, and spice to taste). 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 11 

TUESDAY. 
Breakfast. — Breaded veal cutlet. Fried potatoes. 
Pickled tripe. Waffles. (Put 2 pints of milk into separate 
pans ; warm one sligbtly, melt in it \ lb. of butter, and 
set it away to cool. Beat 8 eggs, and mix with the 
other pan, stirring in gradually J lb. of flour, and a little 
salt. Then mix the contents of both pans together, and 
add a large tablespoonful of yeast. Set near the fire to 
rise. When quite light, heat the waffle-iron and butter 
it, pour in the batter, and when done one side, turn. 
Send to the table hot, six on a plate, buttered, and 
strewn with powdered sugar if desired.) Hot brown 
bread. Cold bread. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 
Beef Souj}. — Take a shank bone, with part of the leg, 
and put in a kettle with soft water to cover it, with a 
small piece of butter to keep from burning, while the 
juices are extracting. Set on the back of the range, and 
cook slowly for six hours, then strain, and when cold, 
remove every particle of fat. Place in another pot 5 
carrots, 5 onions, 1 cup of rice, i a bunch of celery, 
and a small bunch of parsley. In this pot may be plac- 
ed any bones, or pieces of cooked meat. Let them also 
stew slowly for six hours, then strain through a colan- 
der, and add to the soup, with J a cup of tomato catsup. 



12 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

Let all come to a boil together, then serve. Use a 
wooden spoon in stirring. This quantity of soup will 
suffice a small family for a week, and should be kept in 
a cool place, in an earthen vessel. 

Fresh Cod, boiled, with melted butter. 

Roast Chickens, with mashed potatoes, cauliflower, 

and stewed celery. 

CoU Tongue. 

Dessert. 

Squash Pie. — One qt. of pulp strained through a sieve ; 
boil 1 qt. of milk, and stir the squash into it, with 2 
spoonfuls of flour shaken in. Add 2 eggs, and a piece 
of butter size of an egg. Season to the taste with sugar, 
cinnamon, and a little salt. 

Cojfee Custard. — Boil a pint of milk, and pour upon 
it, while boiling, 2 tablespoonfuls of whole coffee, warmed 
by the fire. Let it cool for an hour, then sweeten, add 
the yolks of 4 eggs, thicken over the fire (stirring all 
the time) . When thick enough, strain, and fill the glasses. 

Grapes, apples, and hickory nuts. 

Tea, oe Lunch. 

Cold roast meat, raw oysters, apple-sauce, French 
bread and butter. Crackers. Scotch cake. (Stir to a 
cream 1 lb. of sugar and f lb. of butter, add the juice 
and grated rind of a lemon, with a wine-glass of brandy. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 13 

Beat separately the whites and yolks of 9 eggs, and stir 
into the cake. Add 1 lb. of sifted flower, and just as it 
goes into the pan, 1 lb. of stoned raisins.) 



WEDNESDAY. 

Brealcfast. — Hashed chicken on toast. Cold snipe. 
Mutton chops. Graham rolls. Dry toast. French 
bread and butter. Chocolate and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Barley Broth. — Boil gently, fgtbalf an hour, ^ pt. of 
pearl barley in a gallon of water. Take 3 lbs. lamb 
chops, with fat cut off, and put in a stewpan, with water to 
cover them. Add any kind of vegetables, carrots, tur- 
nips, onions, and celery cut fine. When tender, add to 
the barley water, and boil slowly 2 hours. Salt and 
pepper to taste. 

Fried Scallops. 

Roast Bucks, (scald, to prevent being oily,) with 
baked potatoes, onions, canned sweet corn, and celery. 

CMchen Patties. — Chop fine and season well, and 
serve in puff paste. 

Bessert, 

Arroivroot Pudding. — Simmer a pint of milk with a 
little cinnamon, take a tablepoonsful of arrowroot, mix 



14 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

with cold water, and pour into the milk, stirring all the 
time. When cold, add 3 eggs well beaten, and stir all 
together. Bake i an hour in a dish lined with puff paste,, 
and grate a little nutmeg on the top. 

Delicate Dish. — Beat the whites of 6 eggs, with 2 
spoonfuls of currant jelly, to a solid froth, so that it will 
not fall. Serve with cream and powdered sugar. 

Grapes, apples, and pecan nuts. 

Tea, oe Lunch. 

Stewed oysters, cold game, French bread. Strawberry 
jam, sponge cake. 



THUESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Cold boiled ham. Cold roast duck. 
Omelet, with parsley. Stewed potatoes, with cream. 
Steamed toast. Corn bread (3 cups of meal, 1 cup of 
flour, 1 tablespoonful of butter, do. sugar, 1 teaspoonful 
of soda, 1 qt. of buttermilk, or sour milk, 2 eggs). Tea 
and coffee. 

DiNNEK. 

Gihlet Soil}). — Scald and clean a set of giblets, stew 
vOl a little gravy with 2 onions, a bunch of sweet herbs. 
2 glasses of white wine, pepper, and salt. When tender, 
take them out and strain the broth. Make a stock with 2 



WUAT SUALL WE BAT T 15 

lbs. of beef, and 5 pints of water. Skin 2 onions, slice thin, 
and fry in butter. Add flour to thicken the broth, with 
majoram and parsley, and stir all into the boiling stock. 
Boil ^ an hour, pass through a sieve, and put again 
on the fire, skimming carefully. Add the giblets, 2 
glasses of wine, and a little lemon-juice. Season well. 

Boiled Striped Bass, melted butter. 

Roust leg of Mutton, with boiled potatoes, fried 
parsnips, boiled hominy, and baked tomatoes. 

Scalloped Oysters. — Scald the oysters in their own 
liquor, take them out with a fork, lay in a deep dish, 
sprinkling over each one rolled cracker crumbs, pepper 
and salt, and small pieces of butter. Stir a little butter 
and flour together, and stir into the liquor ; then fill up 
the dish with it, and brown in the oven. 

Dessert. 

Baked Quince Pudding. — Scald some quinces till 
tender, pare, and scrape off the pulp ; then strew it with 
ginger, cinnamon, and sugar. To a pint of milk, or 
cream, put the yolks of 4 eggs and stir in the quince to a 
proper consistency. Bake in a dish lined with paste. 
Canned quinces can be used if necessary. 

Caramel Custard. — Melt \ lb. of pounded sugar over 
a slow fire till it begins to tint, stirring all the time. 
Boil 1 oz. of isinglass in a pint of milk, and pour it on 



1 6 WHAT SHALL "WE EAT ? 

the caramel, stirriDg till quite dissolved. Beat 4 eggs 
and add ; then stir over the fire to thicken. Put in a 
mould, and then set on the ice. 
Fruit and nuts. 

Tea, oe Lunch. 

Cold ham cake. (Take ham that may be getting dry, 
pound finely, with the fat, in a mortar, season with 
pepper and mixed spice ; add clarified butter sufSoient 
to moisten, and place -J an hour in the oven. Put the 
mould in warm water a few minutes, that it may turn 
out well.) Pickled oysters, dry tcast, French bread, 
griddle-cakes, brandy peaches, cup-cake (4 eggs, 4 cups 
flour, 3 cups powdered sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup milk, 
1 glass white wine, spices, and a teaspoonful soda). Tea. 



FRIDAY. 



Breakfast. — Cold roast mutton, pickled pigs' feet, 
rolls, brown bread cream toast, boiled samp. Tea and 
coifee. 

DiNNEE. 

Fea Soup. — Put 1 qt. split peas into 3 qts. boiling 
water (first soak the peas over night) ; boil gently till 
dissolved, strain through a sieve, and add thyme, sweet 
marjoram, and some mushroom catsup. A small piece 



WHAT SHALL WE BAT ? 11 

of ham will improve the flavor. Serve with small pieces 
of fried bread. 

Boiled WMteJish. 

Boast Turkey. — With stewed potatoes, canned sweet 
corn, baked sweet potatoes, and cranberry jelly. 

Beef Ragout. — Fry 2 lbs. of beef till quite brown, 
put it into a stewpan with 6 onions, pepper it well, and 
stew slowly 4 hours. Serve it up with pickled walnuts, 
gherkins, and capers, just warmed in the gravy. 

Bessert. 
Apple Pie. 

Chocolate Cream. — Scrape into 1 qt. of milk (or cream) 
1 oz. of best French chocolate, and add ^ lb. of sugar. 
Boil and and mill it. "When smooth, take it off, and add 
the whites of 6 eggs, beaten to a froth. Strain through a 
sieve, and put in glasses. 

Oranges, raisins, and almonds. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold turkey, roast oysters, cheese, Graham crackers, 
preserved ginger, tea and chocolate, almond cake (2 oz. 
blanched bitter almonds, pounded fine ; 7 oz. flour, sifted 
and dried ; 10 eggs ; 1 pound loaf sugar, powdered and 
sifted, and a wine-glass of rose-water). 



18 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

SATURDAY. 
Breakfast. — Broiled ham, potted game, chipped pota- 
toes, milk toast, corn bread, tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Fish Soup. — Take one pound each of any fresh water 
fish — pike, perch, eels, &c. ; wash in salt and water, and 
then stew with carrots, leeks, sweet herbs, and onions, in 
as much water as will cover them. Stew until all is re- 
duced to a pulp, then strain, and boil an hour, with a lit- 
tle mace, celery, and mushroom catsup, or any high- 
seasoned sauce. 

Fried Clams. 

Broiled BeefsteaTc, with celery, potatoes, and stewed 
tomatoes. 

Broiled Snipe. 



Cranberry Tarts. 

Rice Pudding, with fruit. — Swell the rice in milk. Over 
the fire, and add pared and quartered apples, with a lit- 
tle currant jelly. 

Pears and dates. 

Tea, OK Lunch. 

Cold corn beef, hashed chicken, fried hominy, hot bis- 
cuit, raised, cranberry sauce, chocolate, New Year's cake 



WnAT SHALL WE EAT? 19 

(3 lbs. flour, 1^ lbs. powdered sugar, 1 lb. butter, 1 pt. 
milk, with a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in it, juice of 
a lemon. Cut into shapes to bake) . 



SUNDAY. 



Breahfast. — Corn beef hash, cold snipe, corn meal 
griddle-cakes (scald half a pint of Indian meal, half a 
pint dry, do. flour, and stir all into a pint of milk, with a 
tablespoonful of butter, and one egg. Spread very thin 
on the griddle). Rolls, dry toast, tea and coflFee. 

DiNNEK. 

Celery Soup. — Blanch the heads of two bunches of cel- 
ery in warm water, and put them in a stewpan of broth 
made from boiled chicken, with a lump of sugar. Boil 
an hour, until soft enough to pass through a sieve ; add«a 
cup of milk, and season to taste. 

lioast Beef, with potatoes, beans, tomatoes, and spiced 
currants. 

Oyster Pie. 

Cold Boiled Sam. 

Dessert. 

Apple Piijfs. — Pare and core apples, stew until tender, 
and when cold mix with sugar, grated lemon, and a lit- 
tle quince marmalade. Put in thin paste, and bake \ 
of an hour. 



20 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

Soft Boiled Ciistard. 

Macaroons, grapes, apples, and figs. 

Tea, ok Lunch. 

Broiled smoked salmon, sliced ham, steam toast, Gra- 
ham crackers, assorted cakes, currant jelly, bread and 
butter, tea and chocolate. 



FEBUTJAE,^^. 



MONDAY. 



Brealcfast. — Beefsteak broiled, cold tongue, baked po- 
tatoes, cracker toast (made of Boston hard crackers dip- 
ped in boiling milk, thickened with butter and flour), corn 
pone. (Take a pint of meal and scald it, and when cold, 
add 2 eggs, salt, and a cup of milk. Heat a round cako- 
pan, and butter well ; then put the pone in, and bake i an 
hour with a quick fire). Tea and cofiee. 

Dinner. 

Ghiclen Soup with Tomato. — Boil an old fowl slowly 
until it falls to pieces, season with salt, whole pepper, and 
2 onions. Stain it, add two cups of tomato, and boil well 
together. 

Frost Fish Fried. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 21 

Roast Turkey, with currant jelly, mashed potatoes, 
and stewed celery. 

Sioeeilreads. — Parboil them slightly, and fry a light 
browD, with some mushroom catsup in the gravy. 

Dessert. 

Custard Cream of Chocolate. — Grate 2 oz. of spiced 
chocolate into a j>int of milk ; put into a stewpan, and add 
the yolks of 6 eggs. Stir over the fire until it thickens. 

Bread Pudding. — 1 pt. of bread crumbs, covered with 
milk, cinnamon, and nutmeg. Stir in, when hot, \ lb. of 
butter, \ lb. of sugar, and mix well together. When 
cool, add 6 eggs, and bake one hour in a deep dish. 

Oranges, nuts, and raisins. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Cold roast veal, sardines, Graham bread, French rolls, 
preserved pears, tea and chocolate, ginger cup-cake (5 
eggs, 2 teacups of molasses, 2 do. brown sugar rolled 
fine, 2 do. butter, 1 cup of milk, 5 cups flour, ^ "cup of 
powdered allspice and cloves, ^ cup ginger, J teaspoon- 
ful soda melted in vinegar). 



TUESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Codfish balls, cold turkey, muflSns (1 qt. 
milk, 2 eggs, 2 spoonfuls of yeast, do. flour, butter size 



22 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

of an egg, melted in the milk, and a little salt. Warm 
the milk and add the rest; let it rise, and bake on a grid- 
dle). Corn bread, rolls, tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Sago Soiip. — Take 2 qts. of gravy soup, made of beef, 
thicken with sago to the consistency of pea soup, and sea- 
son with catsup. 

Codfish, with oyster sauce. 

Chicken Pillau, with potatoes, fried parsnips, and 
stewed celery. (Put a large fat chicken, old or young, 
into a pot, with 1 carrot, onion, and a sprig of sweet 
herbs. Boil and skim. When the chicken is half cooked 
add a pint of tomatoes, cut up (fresh or canned), and a 
little broken mace. When it is done enough to eat as 
boiled fowl, take it up ; take out the carrot and onion, 
and measure the liquor. There should be about 3 pints. 
To each 2| cups of soup, put 1 of rice, and when it has 
boiled ten minutes, stir in a piece of butter, size of an 
egg. Before putting in the rice, pepper and salt the broth, 
and when it is tender (but not too soft) take it up. Serve 
in an oval dish,' the fowl in the middle of the rice). 

Croqtieifes of Ccdfs Brains. — Blanch the brains, and 
beat them up with one or two chopped sage leaves, pep- 
per, salt, a few bread crumbs soaked in milk, and 1 egg. 
Roll them into balls, and fry a light brown. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 23 

Dessert. 

Apple Pie. — Pare and quarter apples, scald in sugar 
and water, and grate the rind of a lemon over them. 
Add the juice of the lemon, I doz. whole cloves, butter 
size of a walnut, and fill up the dish with the syrup. 
Use puff paste. 

Almond Custard. — One pt. of cream, do. milk, ^ lb. 
shelled sweet almonds, 2 oz. bitter almonds, 4 table- 
spoonfuls rose-water, \ lb. white sugar, the yolks of 8 
eggs, ^ teaspoonful oil of lemon. Blanch the almonds, 
and pound to a paste, mixing the rose-water with it. 
Beat the eggs very light, and add with the sugar. Stir 
all gradually into the cream and milk, and beat well 
together. Stir on the fire till thick, and when cold, add 
the whites beaten to a froth. 

Figs and pecan nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold ham, potted fish, Indian griddle-cakes, cheese, 
brown biscuit (3 quarts Graham flour, put into one 
of milk and water, with a tablespoonful of butter, a 
teaspoonful of soda, and a little salt). Preserved pine- 
apple, tea. Harrison cake (5 cups flour, \i butter, 2^ 
sugar, 1 molasses, 1 cream, 4 eggs, 1 lb. raisins, citron, 
and mixed spice. Bake 3 hours). 



24 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

WEDNESDAY. • 

Breahfast. — Broiled liver, cold venison, potato cakes 
fried, milk toast of Graham bread, rolls, tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Mock Turtle Soup. — Take half a calf's head, fresh, 
and unstripped of skin, remove the brains, and clean the 
head carefully in hot water, leaving it in cold water for 
an hour. Then put it into 6 qts. warm water, with 2 
lbs. veal, do. pork, a roasted onion stuck with cloves, a 
rind of lemon, 2 sliced carrots, a bunch of herbs, and a 
head of celery. Let it boil slowly 2 hours ; then take 
out the head and pork. Make forcemeat balls of the 
brains and tongue, break the bones of the head, put all 
into the soup, and boil 2 hours more. Put into a 
small stewpan a piece of butter, onions sliced thin, with 
parsley, thyme, mace, and allspice. Add flour to thicken, 
and stir into the soup slowly. Boil gently 1 hour more, 
pass through a sieve, season with salt, cayenne, lemon- 
juice, and a pint of Madeira wine. Add mushrooms if 
desired, and serve with lemons cut in quarters. 

Fried Eels. 

Broiled Woodcock, with squash, sweet potatoes, and 
hominy. 

Boiled Corn Beef. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 25 

Bessert. 

Cranberry Pic. 

Burnt Cream. — Make a rich custard without sugar, 
flavor with lemon, and when cold, sift white sugar thickly 
over it, and brown in the oven. 

Oranges and grapes. 

Tea, or Luncu. 

Fried oysters, ham cake, hominy, dry toast, preserved 
damsons, bread and butter, chocolate, pound cake (1 lb. 
flour, do. powdered sugar, 1 lb. butter, 10 eggs, ^ glass 
of wine, do. brandy, do. rose-water, mixed; 12 drops 
essence lemon, 1 tablespoonful mixed spice). 



THURSDAY. 

Breahfast. — Turkey hash, pickled tripe, fried potatoes, 
buckwheat cakes, brown and white broad, tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Rice Soup. — Make a beef soup, boil 5 hours, then 
strain and add a cup of rice, same of tomato, pepper, 
and salt. 

Fried Halibut 

2 



26 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

Boiled Mutton, capjr sauce, with baked potatoes, 
canned sweet corn, and turnips. 

Calfs Liver Stewed. — Cut the liver in pieces, lard 
nicely, and spread chopped parsley, pepper, and salt over 
them. Put a small piece of butter well mixed with flour 
in the bottom of a stcwpan, put in the liver, and let it 
cook gently in its own juices until done. 



College Pudding. — Take -J lb. of grated bread crumbs,, 
suet (chopped fine), and currants; mix with 4 oz. of flour 
and 1 egg. Beat in a glass of brandy, season with nut- 
meg, and boil 3 hours in a mould. Serve with cold 
sauce. 

Lemon Jelly. — One qt. calf's foot stock, \ pt. lemon 
juice, f lb. of sugar, the rind of 2 lemons cut thin, and 
the whites and shells of 5 eggs. Boil 20 minutes, and 
throw in a teacup of cold water ; then lot it boil 5 min- 
utes longer. Take from the fire and let it stand \ an 
hour covered close. Then run through a bag till clear. 

Apples, nuts, and dates. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold woodcock, broiled herring, cracker toast, French 
bread and butter, currant jelly, tea, Turk's cap (1 pint 
cream, 7 eggs, -i- lb, flour, ami salt; bake quickly). 



WUAT SU\LL WE E.VT V 27 

FRIDAY. 

Breakfast. — Mutton chops, minced codfish, with egg, 
stewed potatoes, rice cakes, gems (wheat flour, unbolted, 
mixed with water and salt, baked in a roll pan on the 
top of the range), cold bread, tea, and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Clam Soup. — Strain the clams, and put on the licpor 
to boil ; beat a spoonful of butter and 1 of flour together, 
with pepper, and stir into cold water ; add to the soup 
with the clams chopped fine, and when nearly done, add 
a little milk. 

Baked Whitefish. 

Boiled Turkey, oyster sauce, with potatoes, squash, 
and sweet corn. 

Ris de Veati. — Blanch 3 sweetbreads, and simmer in 
a well-flavored gravy till quite done. Have ready 3 
round trays of oiled paper, and lay them in, lightly wetted 
with gravy, fine crumbs of bread, pepper, salt, and a 
little nutmeg. Do slowly on a gridiron, and servo in 
the cases. 



Dessert. 



Peach Fie. 

Fancy Cakes. 

Pigs, nuts, and prunes. 



28 what shall "we eat? 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Voal cake. (Bone a breast of veal, and cut in slices 
out also slices of ham, and boil 6 eggs hard ; butter a 
deep pan, and place all in layers, one over the other, cut- 
ting the eggs in slices, and seasoning with cayenne, 
chopped herbs, anchovy, or any high-flavored sauce. 
Cover, and bake 4 hours, and when taken from the oven 
lay a weight upon it ; when cold, turn it out.) Cold 
roast beef, English pickles, crackers assorted, strawberry 
jam, rolls, plain cake (4 lbs. flour, 2 lbs. currants, 
and i lb. of butter, with clove, carraway seeds, and 
lemon peel, grated to the taste. Wet with milk, and i 
pt. yeast). 

SATURDAY. 

Brcalcfast. — Venison steak, cold boiled mutton, waf- 
fles, Indian banock, bread and butter, cocoa and coffee 

DiNNEE. 

Vermicelli Sotip. — Plain beef, without vegetables; 
when strained, add vermicelli. 

Striped Bass, Broiled. 

Boiled Beef, sauce piquant, with tomatoes, pota- 
toes, and parsnips, boiled. 

Boil the rump slowly for 5 hours; make a strong 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 29 

gravy of veal, bam, 2 spoonfuls of vinegar, parsley, 
cloves, onions, and herbs. Strain, and add mushrooms, 
capers, and a glass of brandy. 
Grouse Roasted. 

Dessert. 

Mince Pie. — Take 2 lbs. of beef chopped fine, 2 
lbs. stoned raisins, 2 lbs. currants, 1 lb. sultana raisins, 
2 lbs. apples, | lb. sugar, 2 lbs. suet, the juice of 2 
lemons, and the rind of 1 chopped fine, \ lb. of mixed 
spice, 2 glasses of brandy, 2 oz. of citron, and 2 of 
candied lemon peel. Mix well together in a jar. It 
will improve by lying a few days. Use puff paste. 

Blanc Mange. — Boil 1^ oz. of isinglass, 3 oz. of sweet 
and 6 oz. of bitter almonds, (well pounded,) in a quart 
of milk. Sweeten, strain through a napkin, and put in 
the mould. 

Fruit and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Gold boiled turkey, scalloped oysters. (Dry the oys- 
ters with a cloth, and spread in layers in a deep dish, 
sprinkling each layer with pepper and salt, butter, and 
bread crumbs or rolled cracker. Bake 20 minutes.) 
Muffins, bread and butter, raspberry jam, Madeira buns 
(boat 8 oz. of butter to a cream, and add 2 eggs; take 
14 oz. of flour, G of white sugar, ^ nutmeg, one teaspoon- 



30 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

ful ginger, and a spoonful of carraway seeds. Mix and 
work into the butter, and beat J an hour. Add a wine- 
glass of sherry, and bake quick in patty pans). Tea. 



SUNDAY. 
Breakfast. — Liver hash, cold grouse, chipped pota- 
toes, geu]s of cornmeal, brown bread milk toast, buck- 
wheat cakes. (To 3 pts. of buckwheat flour mixed into 
a batter, add one teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, and 
one of tartaric acid dissolved in water. Bake at once.) 
Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Bean Soup — Soak a pint of small white beans over 
night, boil slowly 3 hours, adding a small piece of ham 
when half done. Season well, and strain. 

Hard-shell Crals. 

Roast Beef, with rice, sweet potatoes, and baked 
tomatoes. 

Potted Pigeons. — Stew the gizzards and livers, chop- 
ped fine ; add grated ham, bread crumbs, and herbs. 
Make into a forcemeat, rolling it round the yolk of a 
hard-boiled egg, and stuff the pigeons. Put into a stew- 
pan with water and a little butter ; add gravy of the 
gizzards, a little flour, and an onion. Stew gently until 
done, adding a glass of wine. 



WnAT SHALL WE EAT? 31 



Dessert 



German Puffs. — Put i lb. of butter into J a pt. of 
milk, and when it boils add a cup of flour ; beat well 
together, and when cold add 6 eggs well beaten, with -|- 
cup of sugar, and grated lemon. Bake in a moderate 
oven. 

Pomme Mange. — Peel and core 1 lb. of apples, and 
add to A- lb. of sugar and ^ pt. of water. Boil till 
quite stiff, with some lemon peol. Put in a mould. 

Oranges, bananas, and nuts. 

Te.\, or Lunch. 

Cold lamb, smoked salmon, br.iljd. Graham dry 
toast, cheese, milk biscuit, preserved grapes, rico cake 
(1 lb. ground rice, do luaip sugar sifted, 8 eggs well 
beaten, the rind of a lemon. Beat all half an hour ; 
and bake \\ hours). Tea. 



MiAUCH. 



MONDAY. 



Brealcfast. — Boiled eggs, toast, breaded lamb chops, 
fried potatoes, pickled tripe, corn bread, rolls. Tea 
and coffee. 



32 WHAT SHALL WB EAT ? 



Dinner. 



Soup a la Julienne. — Cut in pieces size of dice 1 
head of celery, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, some small button 
onions, heads of asparagus (dried) and hearts of lettuce. 
Boil slowly, and add to a beef broth. Use neither 
pepper or catsup. 

Blachjish, boiled, melted butter. 

Roast Veal, with potatoes stewed, cauliflower, and 
tomatoes. 

Toad-in-a-lioh. — Make a common batter of eggs, flour, 
and milk, rather thick, and put in the centre a fowl boned 
and stuffed with forcemeat ; cover entirely with batter, 
and bake it. (Any kind of meat may be dressed in the 
same manner.) 

Dessert. 

Pound Cake Pudding. — One pt. flour, 1 cup milk, do. 
sugar, do. butter, 2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, sifted 
in the flour, 1 of soda (dissolved, in the milk), 3 eggs. 
Bake 1 hour, and serve with wine sauce. 

Rasplerry Cream. — Put J oz. isinglass, dissolved in 
water, into a pint of cream, sweetened to the taste ; boil 
it. When nearly cold, lay some raspberry jam in a glass 
dish, and pour the cream over it. 

Bananas, pecans, and figs. 



"WHAT SHALL WE EAT '< 33 



Tea, or Lunch. 



Cold Turkey, pickled salmon, fried clams, crackers 
and cheese, toast, peach sauce. Prune tartlets. 



TUESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Poached eggs on toast, hashed veal, cold 
snipe, chipped potatoes, Graham rolls, bread, chocolate 
and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Veal Broth. — 4 lbs. scrag of veal, and a bunch of 
sweet herbs, simmer in 6 qts. of water ; when half done 
skim, and add an onion. Add 2 oz. rice, parsley, celery, 
pepper, and salt. 

Fresh Mackerel, broiled. 

Boiled Leg of Lamb. — Caper sauce, with fried pars- 
nips, hominy, sweet corn, and potatoes. 

Miroton of Veal. — Chop very fine cold dressed veal 
and ham, mix with a slice of bread soaked in milk, and 
squeezed dry, 2 onions chopped and browned, salt, pepper, 
and a little cream. Put all into a stewpan until hot, 
and well mixed, then add 1 or 2 eggs, butter a mould, 
and bake until it is brown. Servo with fresh gravy. 



34 wnAT SHALL we eat ? 

Dessert. 

Winiheg PiMing. — Pound and sift 5 crackers, and 
mix with a cup of boiling water, one of sugar, and the 
juice and peel of a lemon. Bake in a crust. 

Orange Custard. — The juice of 6 oranges, strained, 
and sweetened with loaf sugar ; stir over a slow fire till 
the sugar is dissolved, taking off the scum ; when nearly 
cold add the yolks of 6 eggs well beaten, and a pint of 
cream (or milk.) Stir over the fire till it thickens, and 
serve in glasses. Double the quantity if required. 

Filberts, oranges, and raisins. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Broiled oysters, ham cake, cold lamb, rolls, wheat 
biscuit, (1 pt. sour milk, 1 teaspoonful soda, do. salt, ^ 
cup molasses, thicken with wheat meal. Take out 
enough for a "biscuit with a spoon, and roll gently in 
flour.) Dried apple sauce, Apces cake, (1 lb. flour, \ 
lb. butter, do. powdered sugar, ^- glass of wine, a tea- 
spoonful cinnamon, cloves, and allspice, 3 of carrav/aj 
seeds,) tea, and chocolate. 



WEDNESDAY. 
Brealcfast. — Omelet with parsley, cold boiled ham, 
mutton chops, stewed potatoes, steam toast, corn bread, 
tea and coffee, rolls. 



WUAT SHALL WE EAT? 35 



Dinner. 



Sotipe d, la Flamanie. — Take 2 carrots, turnips, aud 
onions, a small quantity of celery and lettuce, slired them 
in pieces, and stew slowly till tender with a teacup of 
gravy and a pieoe of butter. Then add a qt. of any sort 
of broth, and stew gently for an hour with salt, mace, a 
little sugar, and cayenne. Mix the yolks of 3 eggs well 
with i pt. 6f cream, (or milk,) and stir in just before it 
is served. 

Smelts. 

Roast Beef. — With beets, mashed potatoes, stewed 
celery, and canned tomatoes. 

Oyster Patties. 

Dessert. 

Bahed Indian Pudding. — Take 6 eggs to 1 qt. milk, 
and 3 tablespoonfuls of meal. Bake ^ an hour. Boiled 
molasses sauce. 

Brandy Cherries. 

Macaroons. 

Oranges, and candied fruits. 

Tea, or Luncil 

Game pate, veal cake, sardines, waffles, broad, jelly 
cake, grape jelly, plum cake, chocolate. 



36 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

THURSDAY. 

Breakfast. — Ham and eggs, cold beef, pickled pigs' 
feet, buckwheat cakes, rolls, cream toast Graham, tea and 
coffee. 

Dinner. 

Turtle Maixjre Soup. — Use the turtle flesh (preserved 
in jars in a state of jelly) stewed up in a vegetable, or 
fish stock, instead of meat, in sufficient quantity to make 
it limpid. Season with Madeira wine, lemon, thyme, 
marjoram, and parsley ; also nutmeg, allspice, maoo, 
cloves, pepper, and salt, h teaspoonful of curry powder, 
and a few truffles. 

Fried Porgies. 

Roast Canvass-bacJc DtieJcs, with onions, sweet corn, 
carrots, and potatoes. 

Fried Sweetbreads. 

Dessert. 

Apple Pie. 

Champagne Cream. — Beat the yolks of 6 eggs with 
powdered sugar till stiff, pour over it gradually, stewing 
all the time, a bottle of champagne cream. Cider will 
also do. 

Bananas, oranges, and pecans. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Cold chicken, Pate do fois gras, olives, steam toast, 



"WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 37 

Graham bread, French bread, apple jelly, (pour 1 qt. of 
apple juice on 1 lb. fresh apples pared and cored, simmer 
till well broken, strain off the juice, and let it stand till 
cold. Then add 2 oz, isinglass, 9 oz. sugar, 2 lemons, 
rind and juice, and whites and shells of 8 eggs. Lot it 
boil J of an hour, strain, and put in a mould), hot gin- 
gerbread, (1 pt. molasses, do. sour milk, | of a cup but- 
ter, a spoonful of ginger, and a little salt. Mix thick as 
cake), tea. 



FRIDAY. 



Breahfast. — Lamb chops, clam fritters, scrambled 
eggs, milk toast, corn bread, rolls, tea, and coffee. 

DlNNElt. 

Oyster Soup. — Given in January. 

Boiled .Halihut, melted butter. 

Curry of Chichen^ with rioo, squash, and turnips. 

Cut up a raw chicken, put it in a stewpan with 2 oz. 
of butter, h an onion sliced thin, a few sprigs of parsley 
and thyme, and 2 oz. lean ham ; let the whole stew 
gently a few minutes. Add a large spoonful curry 
powder, and a small one of flour. Shako the whole 5 
minutes over the fire, then put to it a pint of gravy oi 



38 WHAT SHALL WE BAT ? 

water ; let the whole simmer till the chicken is done, 
then take it out, and rub the sauce through a sieve, boil 
it up, skim, and season well. 
Veal Patties. 

Dessert. 

Miroton of Apples. — Scald the apples, reduce to a 
pulp, and pile high on the dish in which they are to bo 
served ; boil 1 teaspoonful of grated lemon-peel, and 6 
or 8 lumps of sugar in a teacup of water ; then add the 
yolks of 3 eggs, and the white of 1 , ^ oz. butter, a spoon- 
ful of flour, and 1 of brandy, mix the whole over the fire, 
and stir quite smooth. Pour it on the apples, then 
whisk the whites of the other 2 eggs to a froth, put 
them over the miroton just as it is going into the oven, 
and sift some sugar over it. Bake 10 or 15 minutes in 
a slow oven. 

Rhenish Cream. — Dissolve 1 oz. isinglass in 1 pt. hot 
water, let it stand till cold ; take the yolks of 5 eggs, the 
juice of 3 lemons, ^ pt. white wine, ^ lb. lump sugar. 
Stir all together, and let them boil gently till thick 
enough to put into moulds. 

Dates, oranges, and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold stewed pigeons, cold ham, pickled pig's head. 
mufEns, flour griddle-oakcs, green grape preserves, feather 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 30 

cake (3 cups raised dough, 2 of suger, 2 eggs, ^ cup 
warm milk, 1 cup butter, 1 teaspoonful soda, grate a 
lemon rind, stand near tte fire till light), tea, and choco- 
late. 



SATURDAY. 

Breakfast. — Fresh cod fried, fried eggs, pickled 
tongue, corn beef hash, potatoes t, la maitre d' hotel, 
raised biscuit, 'toast, tea, and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Spring Soup. — Take all kinds of green vegetables, 
asparagus tops, spinach, lettuce, onions, etc., and stow 
thick in any good broth. 

Balicd Macherel. — Take off the heads, clean the fish, 
and replace the roes, rub with salt, pepper, and allspice. 
Pack the fish close in a deep baking-pan, cover with 
equal parts cold vinegar and water, and bake ] hour in 
a slow oven. 

Mutton Kebohbed. — Cut a loin of mutton into steaks, 
take off the fat and skin ; mix a grated nutmeg with a 
little salt, pepper, crumbs, and herbs ; dip the steaks 
into the yolks of 3 eggs beaten, and sprinkle the mixture 
over them. Then place the steaks together as they were 
before cut, tie, and fasten on a spit, and roast before a 
quick fire. Set a dish under it, and baste with the 



40 AVI-IAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

liquor and a piece of butter. When done lay in a deep 
dish, and put over it, | pt. gravy, 2 spoonfuls ketchup, 
and a teaspoonful of flour, first boiled and skimmed. 

Lohter Salad. — Mash with a wooden spoon the yolks 
of 9 eggs boiled hard, mix with ^ pt. sweet oil, (or cream) 
add 1 gill mixed mustard, ^ teaspoon cayenne, and 1 
teaspoon salt. Cut the lobster fine with lettuce, and a' 
few minutes before it is to be eaten, mix the dressing 
with it thoroughly. 

Peach Pie. 

Arrowroot Pudding. — 1 spoonful of powder mixed 
in 2 of cold milk ; pour on it 1 pt. boiling milk, in 
which have been dissolved 4 oz. butter and 2 of su- 
gar, stirring well. Add a little nutmeg and 5 eggs, 
bake 5 an hour in a dish lined with paste. 

Oranges, bananas, and Madeira nuts. 

Tea, oe, Luncu. 

Potted veal, stewed lobster, croam toast, crackers 
and cheese, canned pears, rolls, tea. Fancy cakes. 



SUNDAY. 

Breakfast. — Beefsteak, with mushroom sauce, ' cold 
potted pigeons, corn mufiins, steam toast, boiled eggs, 
cold bread. Tea and coffee. 



what suall we eat ? 41 

Dinner. 

Scots^ Kail Soup. — 4 lbs. mutton to 1 gallon cold wa- 
ter, and 2 oz. pearl barley ; stew until tender, with 2 
onions. Have ready the hearts of 2 cabbages chopped 
fine, put into the broth, and boil uncovered till reduced 
to 2 qts. Add only pepper and salt. 

Flotmders Fried. 

Roast Partridges. — With spinach, salsify, and pota- 
toes. 

LarnVs Head. — Parboil, and rub with tlie yolk of an 
egg, cover thickly with herbs, crumbs of bread, butter 
and put in the oven. Minee the heart and liver, stew 
in a good gravy, adding a spoonful of ketchup. Make 
some forcemeat balls, place the mince in a dish with the 
head upon it, and garnish with the balls, .sliced lemon, 
and pickles. 

Dessert. 

Cottage Pudding. — Break 1 egg in a pan, add a cup 
sugar, 1 teaspoon butter, 2 cream of tartar, 1 soda, a cup 
of milk, and 3 of flour. Pare and slice a lemon, and 
stir into the batter. Bake | of an hour, and eat with 
cold sauce. 

Prune Tarts. 

Figs, oranges, and nuts. 



42 what shall wb eat ? 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold chicken pie, sardines, cold lamb, hot biscuits, 
cream toast, crackers and cheese, apple jelly, oley cooks 
(from Washington Irving, — 1 pt. milk, ^ lb. butter, 2 
eggs, 1 tablespoonful brewer's yeast, i cup sugar, a little 
salt and nutmeg. Stand over night till very light, and 
fry in boiling lard.) Tea and chocolate. 



MONDAY. 



Brealcfast. — Fresh shad broiled, poached eggs, corn 
bannock, cold roast veal, dry toast, rice cakes, rolls and 
bread. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Soup a la Bisqtie. — ^ lb. rice, and 12 crabs, (soft 
shell) ; boil in good broth, and when done pound, and rub 
through a sieve. Fill the heads of the crabs with fish 
stuffing, and add a little butter. 

Bluefisli Broiled. 

Roast Veal, stuffed, -with Bermuda potatoes, raw to- 
matoes dressed, and asparagus. 

Bolster Plain. 



"WUAT SHALL WE EAT ? 43 



Dessert. 



Jelly Tarts of Pujf Paste. 

Cocoamd Pitdding. — Grate a oocoanut after taking off 
the brown skin, mix with 3 oz. white powdered sugar, and 
J pool of a lemon ; mix well with milk, put in a tin lined 
with paste, and hake not too brown. 

Bananas, and nut . 

Tea, ok Luno::. 

Veal cake, cold tongue, Graham dry toasti, preserved 
pears, rolls, crackers and cheese, cup cake with almonds. 



TUESDAY, 

Breahfast. — Veal hash, omelet, stewed potatoes, 
wheat gems, brown bread cream toast, rolls. Tea, and 
coffee, potted fish. 

DiNSEE. 

Blaeh Bean Soup. ■ — ■ Thicken a strong beef broth, 
strained, with black beans. 

Baled Shad. 

Boast Lamb, mint sauce, with baked potatoes, aspar- 
agus, and spinach. 

Pigeon Pie. — Cut a nice rump steak into small pieces, 
and cover the bottom of a dish, add seasoning, and sweet 



44 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

herbs. Boil 2 eggs hard, chop the livers fine, add bread 
crumbs, butter, and seasoning, and stuff the pigeons. 
Put in with the steak, cover with water or gravy, and 
bake with a paste. 

Dessert. 

Apple Dumplings. — 1 large apple, quartered, cored, 
and put together, covered with a thin paste, and boiled 
till done. As many as are needed, serve with hot sauce. 

Chocolate Pudding. — Boil 1 pt. milk, dissolve in it 
1 oz. of chocolate, sweeten with loaf sugar, add the yolks 
of 8, and the whites of 4 eggs well beaten,; strain, and 
pour into a mould, buttered and papered ; steam for J 
an hour ; lot it settle for 10 minutes, and serve with the 
following sauce : boil J stick vanilla in 1 pt. milk till 
it is reduced one half; strain, sweeten, and thicken with 
arrowroot. 

]?igs, and nuts. 

Tea, oe Lunch. 

Ham sandwiches, (chop the ham fine, and season 
with mustard, pepper, and salt, spread between thin 
slices buttered bread,) cold game, minced codfish, rolls, 
toast, stewed prunes, kringles. (Beat well yolks of 8, 
and whites of 2 eggs, mix with 4 oz. butter, warmed, 1 
lb. flour, and 4 oz. sugar to a paste. Koll into thick 
biscuits, and bake on tin plates. 



WHAT SHALL WK EAT? 45 

WEDNESDAY. 

Brealcfast.—'UhxQ fish, scrambled eggs, baked pota- 
toes, cold chicken, Indian griddle-cakes, rolls, tea and 
coffee. 

Dinner. 

Turnip Soup. — Scrape fine 6 large turnips into 2 qts. 
strong beef soup, with 2 onions fried in butter. Let it 
simmer slowly, then rub through a sieve till smooth. 

Boiled Halibut, oyster sauce. 

Roast Beef, with Yorkshire pudding, and vegetables. 
1 pt. boiling milk to a small loaf of bread, crumbed 
fine, 4 eggs, a little salt and flour. Bake in a tin under 
the drippings of the beef. 

Matelote of Fish. — Cut into small pieces any white 
fish, put into a stewpan with 1 oz. of butter to brown, 
adding ^ pt. wine, do. good gravy, spice, and seasoning, 
a sliced carrot and turnip. Take the fish out carefully, 
keep hot, and thicken the gravy with butter and flour, 
adding 6 button onions which have been scalded, the same 
of mushrooms and oysters, lemon-juice, and cayenne. 
Pour boiling hot on the fish. 

Dessert. 
Dried Apple Pie. 

Eice Custards. — Sweeten a pint of milk, and boil, 
sifting in ground rice till thick; take off the fire, and 



46 WHAT SUALL WE EAT? 

add 3 eggs, beaten ; stir again over the fire for three 
minutes, and put into cups that have lain in cold water 
without wiping. When cold turn out, and pour soft 
custard around them, with currant jelly on the top of 
each one. 

Prunes, oranges, and candied fruits. 

Tea, oe Lunch. 
Mutton kidneys, fried. (Cut in thin slices, flour 
and fry quickly, serve in good gravy), Koast beef de- 
viled, sardines, apple fritters, (yolks of 6 eggs, whites of 
3 ; beat well and strain, then add 1 pt. milk, a little 
salt, J nutmeg grated, and a glass of brandy. Mis into 
a thick batter with flour, slice the apples in round, taking 
out the core, dust with sugar, (let them stand an hour or 
two) and dip each slice in batter, frying in boiling lard.) 
Rolls, toast, grape jelly, chocolate. 



THUESDAY. 

Brcalcfast.—CoMi&h. balls, fried Indian pudding, 
boiled eggs, cold lamb, milk toast, rolls, tea, and coffee. 

DiNNEB. 

Chiclcen Sonp. — Boiled, strained, with rice and sea- 
soning. 

Spanish Mackorcl. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 47 

Roast Ducks, with asparagus, lettuce, and tomatoes, 
currant jell J. 

Breaded Veal Cutlets. 

Dessert, 

Brandy Pudding. — Line a mould with stoned raisins 
or dried cherries, then with thia slices of French roll, 
next to which put macaroons, then again fruit, rolls, and 
cakes, till the mould be full, sprinkling in by degrees 2 
wine-glasses of brandy. Beat 4 eggs, put to a pint of 
milk or cream, lightly sweetened, ^ a nutmeg, and the 
rind of ^ a lemon grated. Let the liquid sink into the 
solid part, then tie tight with a floured cloth, and boil 1 
hour. Keep the mould right side up. Serve with sauce. 

Cream Fritters. — One and a half pts. of flour to 1 
pt. of milk ; beat to a froth with 6 eggs ; add 1 pt. 
cream, i nutmeg, a toaspoonful salt, mix well, and fry in 
small cakes. 

Bananas and nuts. 

Tea, ok Luncil 

Roast oysters, coldmiroton of veal, minced fresh fish, 
Boston crackers, with anchovy sauce, (soak the crackers 
split in cold water, butter and spread on the sauce 
thickly.) Muffins, bread, quince marmalade, sponge 
cake, (1 coffee-cup sugar, do. flour, 4 eggs.) Tea and 
cocoa. 



48 WHAT SHALL ave eat? 



FRIDAY. 



Brealcfast. — Shad roes fried brown, omelet with pars- 
ley, lamb chops, chipped potatoes, brown bread, rolls, 
tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

New Migland Chowder. — Fry thin slices of pork in a 
deep pot; lay in the head and shoulders of a fresh cod, 
cut in pieces, put in layers, the pork between ; season 
with pepper, salt, and a few cloves ; fill up with water 
and boil ; when nearly done add a pint of milk, and 6 
Boston crackers split open. 

Broiled Shad. 

Hoast ChicJcons, with potatoes, asparagus, and toma- 
toes. 

Ragout of Veal. — Fry 2 lbs. of veal till brown, then 
put into a stew-pan with 6 onions, pepper and mixed 
spice, add boiling water, and let it stew slowly for 4 
hours. Serve with pickled walnuts, or capers, in the 
gravy. 

Dessert. 

Almond Pudding. — Two and-a-half oz. white bread . 
crumbs, steeped in a pint of cream, (or milk) J pt. 
blanched almonds pounded to a paste, with a little 
water, yolks of 6 eggs and whites of 3, beaten ; mix all 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 49 

together, and add 3 oz. sugar, and 1 oz. beaten butter. 
Stir over the fire till thick, and bake in a puff paste. 

Blueberry Pie. — Use canned fruit. 

Oranges, almonds, and raisins. 

Tea, or Ldnch. 

Clam fritters, cold tongue, potted fish, stewed pota- 
toes, hot brown bread, steam toast, preserved plums, buns. 



SATURDAY, 
Breakfast. — Fresh trout, fried chicken, with cream, 
water cresses, scrambled eggs, Graham biscuit, corn 
bread, rolls, tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Mullagalawnee Soup. — Six onions, and J lb. butter, 
pound well, and add 3 spoonfuls curry powder, a little 
cayenne and salt. Beat all together with some India 
pickle and flour, and stir into 3 qts. of strong beef soup. 
Let it boil half an hour, rub through a sieve, and serve 
with rice. 

Baked Bluefish. 

Beef d la mode, with turnips, carrots and potatoes. 
A round of beef, weighing 20 lbs., rub with salt, and tie 
with tape; chop the marrow from the bone, \ lb. .suet, 
3 



50 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

herbs, thyme, and parsley ; add 2 grated nutmegs, i oz. 
cloves, do. mace, tablespoon pepper, do. salt, and 2 
glasses Madeira wine; cut 1 lb. pork in small pieces, 
make incisions in the beef and slip in, then lay in a deep 
dish, and cover with the seasoning. Bake or stew slowly 
(with water in the dish) 12 hours. If to be eaten hot, 
begin the night before. Add wine and a beaten egg in 
the gravy. 

Sweetlreads, fried. 



Bread Pudding. — One pt. bread-crumbs, covered with 
milk, add cinnamon, lemon-peel, and grated nutmeg; put 
them on a gentle fire until the crumbs are well soaked. 
Take out the cinnamon, and lemon-peel, beat the milk 
and crumbs together, add 4 eggs well beaten, 1 oz. but- 
ter, 2 oz. sugar, ^ lb. currants, and boil it one hour. 

Pine-apples, and macaroons. 

Oranges, and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Oyster pie, cold corned beef, eggs on toast, cranberry 
jelly, biscuit, Turk's cap, sponge cake. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 51 

SUNDAY. 

^ Breakfast. — Veal chops, with tomato sauce, fried po- 
tatoes, cold ham, poached eggs, corn bannock, bread, 

tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Oyster Soup. 

Fried Perch. 

Boiled ChioTcen, with potatoes, asparagus, macaroni, 
and rice. 

Broiled Pigeons. — Cut the pigeons down the back, 
flatten, and truss. Egg them both sides, season, dip in 
chopped herbs and crumbs, a little warmed butter 
sprinkled over them, and broil a light brown. 

Bessert. 

Tipsy Pudding. — Lay in a dish slices of sponge or 
pound cake, well soaked in brandy, and pour over them 
a rich soft custard. 

Jam Tarts. 

Pine-apples and oranges. 

Tea, ok Lunch. 

Cold si la mode beef, broiled ham, mashed potato 
cakes fried, cheese, crackers, preserves, pound cake with 
fruit. 



52 WHAT SHALL "VVE EAT 'i 



MA-Y. 



MONDAY. 

Brealifad. — Fried perch, potted game, -water-cresses, 
clam fritters, boiled eggs, rolls, bread, tea, and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Tomato Soup. — Cut up 2 onions, and fry them in 
butter ; when the onions are brown, add to them a dozen 
tomatoes, from which you have squeezed the water. Put 
in a pot with a turnip, 2 lettuces, a piece of lean ham, a 
stick of celery, some herbs, spice, and a piece of butter. 
Let it simmer for i an hour, stirring occasionally, then 
fill up with stock, and allow it to boil gently 2 hours. 
Put in 2 French rolls crumbed, and when done rub 
through a colander. 

Broiled Salmon. 

Leg of Lamb boiled, melted butter, with asparagus, 
potatoes, lettuce, and tomatoes. 

HardrSliell Crabs. 

Dessert. 

Soft Custards, baJced in Paste. 

Montagu Pudding. — Half lb. chopped suet, 4 table- 
spoonfuls of flour, 4 eggs, and 4 spoonfuls of milk mixed 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? a 3 

iuto a batter ; add -J lb. stoned raisins, a little sugar, 
and boil 4 hours. 

Pine-apple, bananas, and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Fried shad roes, game pat6, German toast. (Take the 
remainder of a fricassee or ragout, chop fine, add a few 
herbs with parsley, and mix with 1 or 2 eggs, according 
to quantity. Put it on the fire with gravy, and let it 
reduce or thicken. When cold, spread thickly on toast, 
brush lightly with beaten egg, sprinkle bread-crumbs on 
each piece, and bake in the oven.) Rolls, bread, sliced 
pine-apple with sugar, bread cake. (Take raised dough 
for one loaf, and knead well into it 2 oz. butter, do. 
sugar, and 8 oz. currants. Warm the butter in a cup of 
milk.) Tea and chocolate. 



TUESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Broiled spring chicken, fried potatoes, 
cold pigeon pie, brown bread, raised biscuit. Tea and 
coffee. 

Dinner. 

Veal Broth. — Stew a knuckle of veal, 5 lbs. in 3 qts. 
water, with an onion, 2 blades of mace, a head of celery, 



54 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

parsley, pepper and salt. Let it simmer gently till re« 
duced to 2 qts. Take out the meat, and servo separately ; 
add 2 oz. boiled rice to tbe broth. 

Baked stuffed Shad. 

Breaded Lamb Chops, with asparagus, potatoes, and 
green peas. 



Cold Tongue. 



Dessert. 



' Rhubarb Pie. 

Flemish Cream. — Dissolve ^ oz. isinglass in a pint of 
water, strain it, and add to | pt. cream. Add a glass of 
brandy, color with currant jelly, whisk to a froth, and 
pu^ into a mould. 

Madeira nuts and oranges. 

Tea, or Ltjnch. 

Cold lamb, lobster salad, sardines, vegetable toast. 
(Take stewed vegetables, and make it into a puree; add 
more seasoning, the yolk of an egg, and thicken over the 
fire. Spread on toast, add bread-crumbs, brush with egg, 
and bake.) Green gage preserves, buns, (| lb. flour, i 
lb. sugar, 1 lb. butter, melted in a little warm water, 6 
spoonfuls rose water, and \ pt. yeast. Make a light 
dough, and add caraway seeds.) Tea and cocoa. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 55 

WEDNESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Veal chops breaded, broiled shad, stewed 
potatoes, pickled tongue, water-cresses, rice cake, 
Graham biscuit, bread. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

White (Soifp.— Boil fowls to a jelly, pound the meat 
in a mortar, and add to the broth. Take 2 qts. of this 
stock to 4 of water, season, and thicken with 1 lb. rice 
flour. 

Stewed Lobster. 

CMcTcen Pot Pie. — Cut the chicken in small pieces, 
stew slowly, and thicken the gravy with stirred butter 
and flour. Blake a paste of cream tartar and soda, put 
on the top, cover tight, and stew \ an hour. 

Boiled Corned heef. 

Bessert. 

Cocoanut Pie. — Grate the white part, mix with milk, 
and boil slowly ten minutes ; allow 1 qt. milk to 1 lb. 
cocoanut, S eggs, 4 spoonfuls sugar, a glass of wine, a 
small cracker pounded fine, and 2 spoonfuls melted butter. 
Bake in deep plates lined with puff paste. 

Butch Butter. — Two oz. isinglass dissolved in a pint 
of water, with a lcmo"E peel. Add a pint white wine. 



56 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

the juice of 3 lemons, yolks of 8 eggs well beaten, 
sweeten, make quite hot, and strain into moulds. 
Almonds, raisins, and bananas. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold roast veal, corn pone, sweetbreads fried, cheese 
and assorted crackers, preserved ginger, Queen Cake, (1 
lb. powdered sugar, 1 lb. butter, 14 oz. flour, 10 eggs, 1 
wine-glass brandy and wine mixed, 12 drops essence of 
lemon, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon and cloves, and 1 nutmeg.) 



THURSDAY. 

Breakfast. — Boiled ham and poached eggs, chipped 
potatoes, cold roast beef, corn bread, water crosses, dry 
toast, fried shad roes. Tea and coffee. 

DiNNEK. 

Sago Soup, — Any white soup thickened with sago. 

Broiled Fresh Maclcerel. 

Roast Lamb, mint sauce, with potatoes, spinach, and 
raw tomatoes. 

Beef Collops. — Cut the inside of a sirloin into circu- 
lar shapes, the size and thickness of a quarter of a dollar, 
flour, and fry them ; sprinkle with pepper, salt, chopped 
parsley ; make a gravy, and serve with tomato sauce. 



WHAT SHALL WE BAT ? 57 

Bessert. 

Tapioca Pudding. 

Broton Bread Ice. — Grate stale brown bread, and 
soak in cream ; sweeten, and freeze. 
Bananas and prunes. 

Tea, oe Lunch. 

Ham toast. (Grate or pound cold ham, mix with 
the yolk of an egg and a little cream, warm over the fire, 
and serve hot on toast,) corned beef hash, corn bread, 
crackers, and cheese, stewed prunes, steam toast, maca- 
roons. Tea. 



FRIDAY. 



Breakfast. — Broiled shad, stewed clams, pickled pig's 
Lead, corn muffins, hashed lamb, bread, rolls. Coffee. 

Dinner. 
Clam SoKp. 
Blnefish, Broiled. 

Stewed Veal, with asparagus, spinach, and potatoes. 
Leister Salad. — Dress like chicken salad. 

Bessert. 

Gloucester Pudding. — Take 3 eggs, same weight in 
3* 



OS WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

butter and flour each, 5 oz. sugar, and 12 bitter almonds 
powdered, beat well, and bake i an hour in cups. 

JeUy Tarts. 

Fruit and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold boiled ham, raw oysters, sardines, muffins, 
toast, preserved damsons, black plum cake. (1 lb. flour, 
do butter, do. white sugar, 12 eggs, 2 lbs. raisins, 2 lbs. 
currants, 2 tablespoonfuls mixed spice, 2 nutmegs pow- 
dered, a glass wine, brandy, and rose water, and 1 lb. 
citron.) Tea and chocolate. 



SATURDAY. 
Breakfast. — Minced veal on toast, cold birds, gems, 
boiled eggs, brown bread. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 
Beef Soup with Vermicelli. 
Bass, Boiled. 

Roast Beef, with potatoes, spinach, and green peas. 
Stewed P iff eons. 

Dessert. 
Crariberry and Rice Jelly. — Strain the berries after 
boiling, and thicken with ground rice, sweeten, boil gently, 
and serve with cream. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 59 

Snow Cream. — Put to a quart of cream (or milk) the 
whites of 3 eggs well beaten, 4 spoonfuls sweet wine, 
sugar to taste, and whip to a froth. 

Pine-apple and nuts. 

Tea, ok Lunch. 
Cold quail, roast beef, Anchovy toast, Turk's cap, oys- 
ter patties, waffles, rolls, quince jelly, sponge cake. 



SUNDAY. 

Breahfast. — Omelet, cold tongue, pickled salmon, 
brown bread, milk toast, broiled tripe, biscuit, bread. 
Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Spring Soup. — Strong veal or mutton broth, thickened 
with greens, asparagus, etc. 

Trout. 

Roast JDuclcs, with peas, asparagus, and rice. 

Beefsteak, with Mushrooms. 

Cold Ham. 

Dessert. 

Balewell Pudding. — The yolk? of 4 eggs and whites of 
2 eggs, with * lb. powdered sugar, and ^ clarified butter. 
When well mixed, stir over the fire, till it thickens. 
Line a dish with puff paste, and put in a layer of candied 



60 



WHAT SHALL WE BAT i 



peel about an inch thick ; then pour the mixture on it, 
and bake in a slow oven. 

Italian Cream. — Juice of a lemon, grated rind of 2, 
and 1 qt. cream. Stir over the fire till thick. 

Chocolate bonbons and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Omelet with parsley, clam fritters, milk toast, p^to 
de foie gras, cold meat, veal cake, pound cake, preserved 
cherries. Tea. 



JXJIVE. 



MONDAY. 
Breahfad. — Fried trout, pickled tongue, potted game, 
steam toast, Graham biscuit, boiled eggs, cucumbers. 
Tea and coffee. 

DiNNEK. 

Green Pea Soup. — Boil 1 qt. fresh peas in salt water, 
with a handful of parsley and sorrel, until perfectly ten- 
der. Drain, and pound in a mortar, and mix gradually 
into veal or beef broth. Season with pepper and salt, 
fry some boiled onions and lettuce, with bread cut into 
dice, and put into the soup before serving, also a few 
heads of boiled asparagus. 



WHAT SHALL WIS EAT? 61 

Boiled Salmon, melted butter. 

Broiled Chicien, -witli peas, string beans, and potatoes. 

Fricandels of Veal. — Chop the fat and lean of 3 lbs. 
of a loin of veal very fine ; then soak a French roll in 
some milk ; beat 3 eggs ; add pepper, salt, and mace. 
Make the mixture somewhat in the shape of a small 
chicken, rub it with egg and bread-crumbs, fry until 
brown, pour off the fat, boil water in the pan, and stew 
the fricandels in this gravy ; two will make a handsome 
dish ; thicken the gravy. 

Dessert. 

Macaroni Pudding. — Simmer 1 or 2 oz. of pipe maca- 
roni in a pint of milk, with a bit of lemon and cinnamon, 
till tender ; put it into a dish with milk, 2 or 3 yolks of 
eggs, but only 1 white ; sugar, nutmeg, a spoonful of 
peach water, and | glass raisin wine. Bake with paste 
around the edges. 

Bohemian Cream. — Rub a pint of fresh strawberries* 
through a sieve, add 6 oz. powdered sugar, the juice 
of a lemon, IJ oz. isinglass dissolved in J pt. water. 
Mix all together, and set on the ice, stirring till it 
begins to set. Whip a pint of cream to a froth, and stir 
into the strawberries, letting the mould remain on ice till 
wanted. Then put it into warm water for an instant, 
and turn out. 

Cherries and nuts. 



62 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

Tea, OB Lunch. 
Radishes, cucumbers, cold veal, potted fish, broiled 
smoked salmon, muffins, rolls, sponge cake, strawberries. 
Tea. 



TUESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Cold birds, omelet, minced salt fish, 
cream toast, radishes, water-cresses, rolls, tea and coffee, 
strawberries. 

DiNNEK. 

Gumbo Soicp. 

Trout. 

Roast Veal, with asparagus, lettuce, peas, and pota- 
toes. 

Pigeons, with Peas. — Put the pigeons into a stewpan 
•with a little butter, just to stifi'en ; then take them out, 
put some small slices of bacon into the pan, give a fine 
color, draw them, and add a spoonful of flour to the but- 
ter ; then put in the pigeons and bacon, moisten by de- 
grees with gravy, and bring it to the consistency of 
sauce ; boil it ; season with parsley, young onions, and let 
it simmer ; when half done put in a quart of peas ; 
shake them often ; and when ready thicken the peas with 
flour and butter. There should be no gravy left. 



WHAT SHALL WB EAT ? 03 

Bessert. 

Qiiahing Pudding. — Scald 1 qt. cream (or milk) ; 
and when almost cold add 4 eggs well beaten, IJ 
spoonfuls flour, some nutmeg, and sugar ; tie it close 
in a buttered cloth ; boil 1 hour, and serve with 
wine sauce. 

Crenu an Marasqiiin. — Whip a pint of cream until 
it thickens, add powdered sugar, a glass of maraschino, 
and 1 oz. isinglass dissolved in water. The latter 
must be liquid, but cold. 

Strawberries and cream, nuts. 

Tea, or Lunoii. 
Cold boiled ham, cucumbers, dried beef with cream, 
biscuit, rolls, strawberries, bread, cake. Tea and cho- 
colate. 



WEDNESDAY. 
Breakfast. — Minced veal, pickled shad roes, potted 
game, corn muffins, dry toast, radishes, rolls, scrambled 
eggs. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 
Mutton Broth. 
Baled Pike, caper sauce. 

Mutton Pillan, with peas, beans, and potatoes. Take 
h lb. neck of mutton, boil it well, then cut it into small 



64 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

pieces, and fry it in butter ; then let it simmer ^ an hour 
with 2 cups boiled rice, a few cIofcs, a little cinnamon, 
and some cardamoms. 
Squabs, roasted. 

Dessert. 

Plum Pudding, not rich. — Four oz. each of grated 
bread, suet, and stoned raisins, mix with 2 well-beaten 
eggs, 4 spoonfuls of milk, and a little salt. Boil 4 
hours, A spoonful of brandy,, sugar, and nutmeg, in 
melted butter, may be used as sauce. 

Raspherry Cream. — Boil 1 oz. isinglass in li pts. 
milk; strain through a hair sieve; boil 1^ pts. cream; 
when cool add -\ pt. raspberry juice to it ; then add the 
milk, stir well, sweeten, and add a glass of brandy. 
Whisk it till nearly cold, then put in a mould. 

Strawberries and nuts. 

Tea, OB Lunch. 

Cold tongue, miroton of veal, cucumbers, radishes, 
strawberries, pound cake, waffles, toast, rolls, tea and 
chocolate. 



THtJESDAY. 
Breakfast. — Boiled chicken, clam fritters, muffins, 
steam toast, hot brown bread, cucumbers, strawberries, 
tea and coffee, boiled eggs. 



what shall we eat ? 65 

Dinner. 

Tomato Soup. 

Lobster. 

Roast Beef, with pefis, lima beans, and potatoes. 

Rissoles. — Pound cold meat, season, and mix with a 
little good gravy and butter. Eoll paste into oval 
pieces, lay a spoonful on one end, double it over, press 
the edges together, and scallop them. Brush over with 
yolk of egg, and fry brown. 

Bessert. 
Cherry Pie. 

Orange Butter. — Boil 6 eggs hard, beat them in a 
mortar with 2 oz. fine sugar, 3 oz. butter, and 2 oz. blanched 
almonds, beaten to a paste ; moisten with orange-flower 
water, and when all is mixed rub it through a colander 
on a dish. Serve with sweet biscuits. 
Strawberries, pine-apple, and nuts. 

Tea, ok Lunch. 
Potted shrimps, dried chipjicd beef, milk toast, rolls, 
corn pone, strawberries, radishes, chocolate. 



FRIDAY. 
Breakfast. — Cold roast beef, smelts, omelet, chipped 
potatoes, rice cakes, Graham bread, water cresses, rad- 
ishes, cucumbers, tea and coifoc. 



66 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

DiNNEE. 

Sovp d la Bisque. 
Fresh Mackerel 

Roast Lamb, ■with peas, asparagus, tomatoes, and 
lettuce. 

Sioceibreais. 

Lobster Pie. — Cut 2 boiled lobsters in pieces, and lay 
in a dish ; beat the spawn in a mortar ; put the shells on 
to boil in some water, with 3 spoonfuls of vinegar, pep- 
per, salt, and some mace. A large piece of butter 
rolled in flour must be added when the good is obtained. 
Pour into the dish strained, strew in some crumbs, and 
put a paste over all. Bake only till the paste is done. 

Dessert. 

Rluibarl Pie. 

Lemon Syllahib. — Grate the peel of a lemon with 
lump sugar, and dissolve the sugar in f pt. of wine ; add 
the juice of half a lemon, and \ pt. cream. Whisk the 
whole until properly tliick, and put into glasses. 

Strawberries, cherries, and bonbons. 

Tea, oe Lunch. 

Kidney Toast. — (Take cold veal kidneys, cut in small 
pieces; pound the fat in a mortar, with salt, pepper, and 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? BY 

a boiled onion. Bind all together with beaten whites 
of eggs, heap it on toast, cover with yolks beaten, sprin- 
kle with bread crumbs, and bake in the oven.) Salt fish 
broiled, cold ham, raised biscuit, corn-bread, fruit, cucum- 
bers, and radishes. Lemon cheese-cakes. — (Mix 4 oz. 
sifted lump sugar, with 4 oz. butter ; then add yolks of 
2 and white of 1 egg, the rind of 3 lemons chopped 
fine and the juice of 1^, 1 Savoy biscuit, some blanched 
almonds, and 3 spoonfuls of brandy. Bake in patty 
pans.) Tea and cocoa. 



SATURDAY. 

Brealcfast. — Broiled fresh salmon, beeftteak, fried po- 
tatoes, cream toast, Graham biscuit, potted tongue, rolls, 
tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Bean Soup. 

Soles, fried. 

Boiled, Leg of Mutton, with lettuce, peas, spinach, and 
potatoes. 

Beefsteaks, with mushrooms. 

Chicken Patties. 

Dessert. 

Sweetmeat Pudding. — Cover a dish with thin puflF 
paste, and lay in it 1 oz. each of candied lemon, orange, 



68 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

and citroD, sliced fhin. Beat the yolks of 8 and whites 
of 2 eggs, and mix with 8 oz. butter warmed, and some 
white sugar. Pour all over the sweetmeats, and bake 
1 hour in a moderate oven. 

Flemish Cream. — Dissolve \ oz. isinglass in 1 pt. 
water, strain it to \ pt. cream ; add 1 glass brandy, and 
whisk to a light froth. Put in a mould. 

Cherries and candied fruits. 

Tea, ok Lunch. 
Cold lamb, sandwiches of ham, sardines, waiSes, dry 
toast, rolls, cucumbers, strawberries, small pound-cakes, 
tea. 



SUNDAY. 
Brealcfast. — Broiled kidneys, with tomato sauce, cold 
veal, scrambled eggs, Graham bread, gems, rolls, bread, 
tea and coffee, radishes. 

DiNNEE. 

Aspcvragits Soup. — To 2 qts. of good beef or veal 
broth, put 4 onions, 2 turnips, and some sweet herbs, 
with the white parts of a hundred young asparagus. If 
large, half the quantity will do. Let them simmer till 
tender enough to rub through a tammy, then strain and 
season, adding boiled tops of asparagus. 

Boiled Salmon. 



■WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 09 

Chickens A la Carmelite, with peas, beans, and pota- 
toes. Put a piece of butter, size of a walnut, in a stew- 
pan ; as it melts dredge in flour, and when well mixed 
add a teacup of milk. Cut up the chickens and add 
them, with pepper, an onion, and mace. Stew till tender, 
adding milk and water, if too dry. Take out the chick- 
ens, and cover with chopped parsley and lemon-juice 
mixed ; thicken the sauce, and add a glass of white-wine. 

Beefsteak, broiled. 

Dessert. 

Mother Eve's Pudding. — Grate \ lb. bread ; mix with 
same quantity chopped suet, the same of apples and cur- 
rants ; mix with these 4 eggs, and the rind of half a 
lemon shred fine. Boil in a shape 3 hours, and serve 
with sauce. 

French Flimimery. — Boil slowly 2 oz. isinglass shav- 
ings in a quart of cream, 15 minutes. Stir, and sweeten 
with loaf sugar; add a spoonful of rose-water, and one 
of orange-flower water. Strain into a form. 

Cherries, strawberries, and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Ham cake, cold corned beef, minced salt fish, crackers 
and cheese, toast, corn bannock, biscuit, macaroons, 
strawberries, cucumbers, tea. 



70 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

MONDAY. 

Breakfast. — Sweetbreads fried, potted fish, raw to- 
matoes sliced, fried potatoes, cucumbers, cream toast, 
rolls, water-cresses. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Vegetable Soup. — Veal or beef broth, with all sorts 
of vegetables cut small. 

Boiled, Codfish., with sauce. 

Boiled ChicJcetis. — With tomatoes, potatoes roasted, 
peas, and green corn. 

BeefstcaJc Pudding. — Take 1^ lb. of the inside of a 
sirloin, beat it tender, cut thin, and divide Into small 
slices, with 2 kidneys. Season with pepper, salt, and 
chopped parsley, roll in paste, and boil 3 hours. When 
done, have ready strong beef-gravy, with mushroom 
ketchup in it, make a hole in the paste, and pour it into 
the pudding. 

Dessert. 

Cherry Pudding. 

Belioate dish. — Beat whites of eggs with currant 
jelly, to a solid froth, and serve with cream and sugar. 
Raspberries, cherries, and nuts. 



what shall we eat? 71 

Tea, or Lcncii. 
Cold tongue, sardines, veal cake, cucumbers, rasp- 
berries, muffins, toast, bread, cake, cherries. Tea. 



TUESDAY. 

Brealcfast. — Spring chickens, fried, witli cream sauce ; 
dry_ toast, rice cakes, raw tomatoes dressed, cold corned 
beef, cucumbers, fruit, tea and coffee, rolls. 
Dinner. 

Tomato Soup. — Beef soup with tomatoes pulped or 
shredded, and well seasoned. 

Salmon, loiled. 

Fillet of Veal, stuffed, with beansj tomatoes, and 
potato loaves. Mash the potatoes without milk, make 
them into conical loaves with butter to hold them, and 
brown under the meat. 

Rice Croquettes. — Boil 6 oz. rice in broth, let it stew 
till done, then work it well with a spoonful of white 
sauce, 2 of grated cheese, and a little pepper. When 
of proper consistence, make the rice into shapes, hollowing 
them in the hand like cups; then fill them with any 
kind of minced meat, close the end to contain it, and 
cover well with the following mixture : 2 spoonfuls grat- 
ed cheese, with 4 of bread crumbs, stuck together with 
yolks of eggs ; fry a light brown. 



12 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

Dessert. 
Raspberry Pie. 
Soft Boiled Ciistard. 
Cherries, and bonbons. 

Tea, or Lunou. 

Cold chicken pie, broiled smoked salmon, raspberries 
and cherries, waffles, corn bread, bread, cucumbers, fruit- 
cake. 



WEDNESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Lamb cutlet breaded, cold ham, omelet 
with parsley, steam toast, rolls, bread, corn pone, cucum- 
bers, and fruit. 

Dinner. 

Green Corn Soup. — Veal broth with 2 ears of green 
corn grated into it. 

Bluefish Broiled. 

Roast Chickens, with corn, beans, peas, and potato 
omelet. Mashed potato, mixed with 4 eggs, well sea- 
soned, and fried. 

Calves' Brains. — Cut prepared brains into slices J an 
inch thick ; flour, egg, and bread-crumb them ; fry a nice 
brown, and serve with tomato sauce. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 73 

Dessert. 

Gooseberry Pudding. — Stew gooseberries till they 
will pulp, then press a pint of the juice through a coarse 
sieve, and beat it with 3 eggs well beaten, IJ oz. butter, 
and enough sugar to sweeten it. Add a few bread- 
crumbs, and bake in dish with a crust round it. 

Almond Custard. — Boil 2 or 3 bitter almonds in a 
pint of milk or cream, with a stick of cinnamon, a piece 
of lemon peel, and 8 lumps of sugar ; let it simmer ; then 
strain it, and stir till cold. Add the yolks of 6 eggs 
beaten, 1 oz. of sweet almonds beaten fine in rose water, 
and stir over the fire till of a proper thickness. Do not 
boil. Easpberrios, cherries, and chocolate caramels. 

Tea, or Luncu. 

Broiled ham, dried beef chipped, biscuit, crackers 
and cheese, cucumbers stewed. (Peel and slice thick, 
stew with salt and pepper, and simmer slowly in a little 
broth or butter ; add a little flour before serving.) 
Raspberries, sponge cake, anchovy, toast. Tea and 
chocolate. 



THURSDAY. 

Breakfast. — Minced salmon with cream, cold chicken, 
corn muffins, rolls, toast, cucumbers, and fruit. Tea and 
coffee. 

4 



74 what shall "we eat ? 

Dinner. 

Summer Soup. — Take 2 cucumbers, 12 onions, 3 po- 
tatoes, 1 lettuce, and a Lead of white cabbage ; fry 
together in butter ; then stew 3 hours in 3 pts. stock ; 
add a little mint, parsley, and a pint of green peas ; let it 
stew 2 hours more ; press it through a seivc, and thicken 
with butter and flour. 

Trout. 

Roast Lamb, mint sauce, with corn, peas, potatoes 
stewed, and maccaroui with cheese. 

Chicken Pudding. — Fricassee 2 young chickens, 
season with mushroom powder, mace, and salt. Make , 
gravy of the giblets and a bit of meat, put 2 spoonfuls 
into the paste. Boil 2 hours, and put the rest of the 
gravy into or under the pudding. 

Dessert. 

Rice Custards, Strawlerry Jelly. — Boil f lb. loaf 
sugar in a pint of water 20 minutes, pour hot over 
a quart of picked strawberries, and let them stand over 
night. Clarify 2| oz. isinglass in a pint of water, drain 
the syrup from the berries, adding the juice of a lemon. 
When the isinglass is nearly cold mix all together, add 
more sugar if wanted, and put it into moulds. Set on 
the ice. 

Raspberries and almonds. 



what shall we eat ? 15 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Potted fish, broiled kidneys, minced salt fish, Vegeta- 
hie Ragout. (Cut any kinds of cold vegetables into 
slices, put in a stewpan with pepper, salt, a little broth, 
and a piece of butter, and stir till quite hot). Cu- 
cumbers and fruit, corn pone, rolls, toast. Cojfee Cakes. 
(1 lb. flour. \ lb. butter, do. sugar, 1 egg, 1 oz. car- 
away seeds ; mix with warm milk and a spoonful 
rose water; roll out thin, and bake on little tins.) 
Tea and chocolate. 



FRIDAY. 



Brealcfast. — Broiled beefsteak, trout, stewed potatoes, 
pickled salmon, hot brown bread, rolls, tea and coffee, 
Kedgeree. — Boil 2 tablespoonfuls of rice, add any fish 
previously cooked (salmon preferable), nicely picked ; 
beat up an egg well, and stir it in just before serving. 

Dinner. 
Maearoni Soup. 

Flounders. 

Fillet of Beef, with corn, peas, beans, and tomatoes. 

Corned Beef. 

Dessert. 

Almond Pudding. — Take 2J oz. bread crumbs, and 
steep them in a pint of cream, (or milk), then pound | 



16 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

pint of blanched almonds to a paste, with some water, 
beat the yolks of 6 eggs, and whites of 3 ; mix all 
together, and add 3 oz. sugar, and 1 of beaten butter. 
Thicken over the fire, and bake in a puff paste. 



Raspberries, cherries, and nuts. 

Tea, ok Lunch. 
Cold lamb, sardines, omelet, fried bacon, pate de foie 
gras, waffles, toast, berries, cucumbers, pound cake, choc- 
olate. 



SATURDAY. 

Breakfast. — Veal cutlets, potted game, dropped eggs 
on toast, steamed toast, broiled ham, rolls, tea and coffee, 
fruit. 

Dinner. 

nice Soup. — Take white stock, season it, and use l^- 
lbs. of rice to 2 qts. of broth. 



Boiled Mutton, caper sauce, with roasted potatoes, 
peas, and corn. 

Chicken Patties. 

Dessert. 

Lemon Jelly. — Clarify IJ oz. isinglass in a pint of 
water ; add J lb. loaf sugar, and the rind of 2 lemons, 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? V7 

cut thin. Strain tbe juice of 4 lemons, and stir into the 
cool sugar and isinglass. Take out tbe peel, and pour 
into forms. 

Berrtj Pie. 

Fruit and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Cold corned beef, broiled mackerel, toasted cbeese, 
muffins, toast, rolls, berries, Harrison cake, tea. 



SUNDAY. 
Breakfast. — Codfish balls, broiled fresh salmon, 
boiled eggs, gems, fruit, rolls, bread, tea and coffee. 

DiNNEK. 

Chichen Broth. 

Salmon. 

Roast Beef, with potatoes, peas, tomatoes, and beans. 

Siveethreads, fried. 

Dessert. 

Arrowroot Pudding. 

Snow Cream. — Put to a quart of cream the whites 
of 3 eggs, well beaten, 4 spoonfuls of sweet wine, suga-- 
to taste, and a bit of lemon-peel. Whip to a froth, take 
out the peel, and serve in a dish. 

Early apples, and nuts. 



18 woat shall we eat ? 

Tea, or Luncu. 

Salt fish broiled, cold mutton, cheese, corn bread, 
Turk's cap, raspberries and cherries, cucumbers, and 
radishes, toast, ham cake, chocolate cakes, tea. 



A.TTGTJSX. 

MONDAY. 



BreaJcfasi- — Broiled halibut, cold tongue, stewed po- 
tatoes, raw sliced tomatoes, omelet, rolls, dry toast, cu- 
cumbers, fruit, tea and coflfee. 

Djnnee. 

Vegetable Marrow Soup. — Boil the marrow and strain, 
then add to beef or veal broth, thicken with 2 spoonfuls 
of arrowroot, and a little cream. Do not allow it to boil 
after the latter is added. 

Slewed Codfish. — Cut in slices an inch thick, lay in a 
large stewpan, and season with salt, pepper, a bunch of 
herbs, an onion, ^ pt. white-wine, and \ pt. water. Cover 
close, and let it simmer five minutes, then squeeze in the 
juice of a lemon, a piece of butter size of an egg, rolled 
in flour, and a blade of mace. Let it stew slowly till 
done, and take out the herbs and onions. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 79 

Chiclcen Pillan, with squash, corn, beans, and pota- 
toes. 

Baited Calves'' Head. — Wash the head, and place in a 
large earthen dish, on large iron skewers, laid across the 
top of the dish ; cover it with bread crumbs, grated nut- 
meg, chopped sweet herbs, a little fine-cut lemon, and 
flour ; thick pieces of butter in the eyes, and all over 
the head, then flour it again ; put in the dish a piece of 
beef, cut small; herbs, an onion, pepper, mace, cloves, a 
pint of water, and bake the head a fine brown. Boil 
the brains with sage, separately. When the head is- 
done enough take it out, and set by the fire to keep 
warm, then stir all in the dish togethci-, and boil in a 
stewpan ; strain it off, put it in the saucepan again with 
a piece of butter rolled in flour, the brains and sage 
chopped fine, a spgonful of catsup, and two spoonfuls of 
wine. Beat well together, and serve in the dish with 
the head. Leave the tongue in the head. 

Dessert. 

Baked Custard. 

Wliipt Cream. — A qt. cream, the whites of 4 eggs, J 
pt. white-wine, \ lb. powdered sugar, 12 drops essence 
of lemon. Beat to a froth, and put in glasses with a 
little jelly in the bottom. 

Peaches and melons. 



80 what shall we eat ? 

Tea, or Ldnoh. 

Cold tongue, minced beef on toast, peaches and 
cream, cucumbers, corn pone, boiled rice, dry toast, tea, 
lemonade. 



TUESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Corned beef hash, cold roast chicken, 
boiled eggs, steam toast, raised biscuit, lettuce, huckle- 
berries, rolls, coffee and tea. 

DiNNEIl. 

Gihlet Soup. 

Boi^ei Pike. — Stuff the pike with grated bread, 2 
hard boiled eggs chopped fine, a little nutmeg, lemon 
peel, and the roe or liver chopped ; then lay it in the 
dish, with the tail in the mouth ; put pieces of butter 
all over it, and sprinkle with flour. ■ G-arnish with toast 
and lemon, and serve with melted butter. 

Boiled, Corned Beef, with corn, squash, beans, and 
baked potatoes. 

Buck, with Peas. — Put the duck in a deep stewpan, 
with a piece of butter, (singe it first,) flour it, and turn 
it two or three times, then pour out all the fat. Put to 
the duck a pint of good gravy, do. peas, 2 lettuces cut 
small, sweet herbs, pepper and salt ; cover close and stew 
half an hour. When well done thicken with a little 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 81 

butter and flour, shake all together three or four 
minutes, and serve in a dish, the duck with the sauce 
poured over it. 

rt. 



Cream Pudding. — Boil 1 qt. of cream with a blade 
of mace, and half a nutmeg, grated ; let it cool ; beat 
the yolks of 8 eggs, and whites of 3, and mix them with 
a spoonful of flour, \ lb. blanched almonds, beaten with 
rose-water, and by degrees mix in the cream. Tie in a 
thick cloth well floured, boil half an hour, and when 
done throw fine sugar and melted butter over it. 

Peaches and Cream. 

Melons, plums, and bonbons. 

Tea, oh Lunch. 

Broiled smoked salmon, lobster salad, corn pone, 
Graham biscuit, blackberries, peaches and cream, maca- 
roons, and small sponge cakes, dry toast, tea and choco- 
late. 



WEDNESDAY. 
Breakfast. — Broiled spring chicken, brown bread, 
cream toast, cold ham, potted fish, rolls, scrambled eggs, 
blackberries, cucumbers, tea and cofiee. 



82 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

DiNNEE. 

CodlingSotip. — Take the meat from a young cod, pound 
it in a mortar, with some shred parsley, and bread 
crumbs soaked in milk ; make the mixture up into balls 
with an egg, seasoned well. Stew down 2 or 3 codlings 
or haddocks into bi'Oth, strain it, julp the meat through 
a sieve, boil it with parsley roots, thicken, and serve 
with the forcemeat balls. 

Broiled Bliiejish. 

Roast Beef, with corn, egg plant, squash, and rice. 

Pigeon Fricassee. — Cut 8 pigeons into small pieces, 
and put in a stewpan with 1 pt. water and same of 
claret. Season with salt, popper, mace, an onion, 
a bunch of herbs, a piece of butter rolled in flour ; cover 
close, and let them stew till there is just enough for 
sauce ; then take out the onion and herbs, beat up the 
yolks of 3 eggs, push the meat to one side, and stir 
them into the gravy. Keep stirring till sauce is thick, 
then put the meat in a dish, and pour over it. 
Dessert. 

Charlotte Russe. 

Ice Cream. — Newport receipt. — 1 qt. new milk, with 
cream to suit, 2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch, yolk of 1 egg, 
sugar, and flavoring to taste. Wet the starch in a little 
of the milk, mix with the egg, and stir into the milk 
boiling hot. When cool, it is ready for the freezer. 
Peaches, plums, and hot-house grapes. 



what suall we eat ? 83 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Cold veal, sardines, Boston crackers, with tomato cat- 
sup, cream toast, rice cakes, blackberries and huckleber- 
ries, pound-cake, rolls, gems. Tea. 



THURSDAY. 
Breakfast. — Cold roast beef, sweetbreads fried, raw 
tomatoes, muifins, potted tongue, rolls and bread, berries, 
cucumbers. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Green Corn Soup. 

Baked Cod's Head. — Lay the head in a buttered pan, 
with a bundle of herbs, an onion stuck with cloves, 3 or 4 
blades of mace, -J- spoonful black pepper, a small piece 
lemon-peel, a bruised nutmeg, a small bit of horseradish, 
and a quart of water. Flour the head, and stick butter 
and bread crumbs over it. Bake it well, and lay it in the 
dish it is to be served in, covered close, and placed over 
hot water. Boil the liquor 3 or 4 minutes, strain it, and 
add a gill of wine, 2 spoonfuls of catsup, 1 of mushrooms 
pickled, and \ lb. butter rolled in flour. Stir till it is 
thick, and pour into the dish. Stick pieces of fried 
bread round the dish, and in the head. 

Boiled Zamb, with baked tomatoes, corn, lima beans, 
and potatoes. 



84 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

Brown Fricassee. — Cut chickens in small pieces, and 
rub with yolks of eggs ; then roll them in grated bread 
and nutmeg, and fry a fine brown with butter. Pour 
off the butter, and add J pt. brown gravy, 1 glass white 
wine, a few mushrooms, salt and pepper, and a littk 
butter rolled in flour. When thick, dish it for the table. 



Blaclcberry Pudding. — A good batter mixed with the 
fruit, boiled 1 hour, and served with wine sauce. 

Kisses. — Beat the whites of 4 eggs till stiff, then stir 
in gradually (one spoonful at a time) 1 lb. powdered 
sugar, and add 12 drops essence of lemon. Lay a wet 
sheet of paper on a square pan, and drop at equal dis- 
tances a teaspoonful of stiff currant jelly with a little 
sugar and egg U7ider each one. Then pile the froth so 
as to cover each lump of jelly, as round as possible. Set 
in a cool oven, and when colored they are done. Place 
the two bottoms together, lay them lightly on a sieve, 
and dry in a cool oven till they stick together. 

Apples, peaches, and melons. 

Tea, oe Lunch. 

Cold miroton of veal, dried beef stewed in cream, 
waffles, crackers and cheese, bread and toast, berries and 
radishes, Indian pound-cake. Tea and chocolate. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 86 

FRIDAY. 

JBrealcfast. — Codfisli fried, chipped potatoes, oold 
tongue, minced lamb, omelet, corn bread, brown bread, 
berries, rolls. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Lobster Soup. — Blake a stock of small fish, take the 
meat from 1 or-2 lobsters, and cut in small pieces ; lay 
it aside, and break the shell, boiling it gently several 
hours with the stock. Make the coral into force- 
meat balls, with a small piece of stock fish, bread crumbs, 
parsley, and egg. When the stock is done, strain, and 
thicken with butter and flour. Warm the lobster in it, 
and serve with the balls. It may bo seasoned delicately 
with any sauce. 

Boiled Soles, melted butter. 

Roast Veal, with peas, beans, and potatoes k la maitre 
d'hotel. 

NeaVs Tongue Fricassee. — Boil the tongues till ten- 
der, peel, and cut in thin slices ; fry them in fresh butter ; 
then pour it out, add enough gravy for sauce, herbs, an 
onion, pepper, salt, mace, and a glass of white-wine ; 
simmer all -|- an hour ; take out the tongue, and strain the 
gravy ; then put both into the pan again with yolks of 2 
eggs beaten, a piece of butter size of a walnut, rolled in 
flour, and a little nutmeg. Shake together 5 minutes, 
and serve. 



86 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

Dessert. 
Ilucklelerry Pie. 

Apple Souffle. — Scald and sweeten the fruit, beat 
through a sieve, and put in a dish. Pour a rich custard 
2 inches deep over it ; when cold, whip the whites of the 
eggs to a froth, and lay in rough pieces on the custard ; 
sift fine sugar over it, and put in a slack oven for a 
short time. 

Peaches and melons. 

Tea, oe Lunch. 
Ilam sandwiches, salad, tongue, potted game, corn 
muffins, biscuit, jelly tarts, berries, cup cake. Tea. 



SATURDAY. 
Breakfast. — Beefsteak, cold snipe, raw tomatoes, drop- 
ped eggs on toast, milk toast, berries, cucumbers, tea 
and coffee, rolls. 

Dinner. 

Oxcheeh Soup. — Take the meat from half an ox-head, 
and put in a pan with 3 sliced, fried onions, herbs, 
allspice, pepper, and salt, a large spoonful each. Lay 
the bones close on the meat, and put 1 qt. water to 
every pound cut meat. Cover the pan with coarse 
brown paper, tied closely, and let it stand in the oven 
4 hours. When done, take out the bones, and pour the 



AVDAT SUALL WE EAT ? 87 

soup and meat into a pan. When it is to bo used, 
take off the fat, warm the soup, and cut the meat 
into pieces not larger than a mouthful. Make the 
brains into forcemeat balls, and season highly with 
walnut catsup and cayenne. 

Stcived Terrapin. — Boil them ).0 minutes, and then 
take them out, remove the outer shells, and put back 
again. Tiion boil till the claws are tender. Take them out 
of the inner shell, taking care not to break the gall, 
which must be separated from the liver and thrown 
away ; also the spongy part. Cut them in small pieces, 
put in a stewpan with salt, pepper, and some butter. 
After they have stewed a few minutes, put in a wine- 
glass of water to each terrapin. When they have 
stewed 10 minutes add butter rolled in flour, and 1 
glass whitc-wino to each one. Stew 5 minutes more, 
and take off. Add beaten yolks of eggs (1 yolk to 2 
terrapins) well stirred in, cover tightly, let it stand 5 
minutes, and serve in a deep dish. 

Lamb Chops, breaded ; with succotash (corn and beans), 
sc[uash, and potatoes. 

Lamb's Eead, stewed. — Wash, and lay in water 1 hour ; 
take out the brains, and with a sharp penknife take out 
the tongue and bones, so as to leave the meat whole ; chop 
together 2 lbs. veal, 2 lbs. beef-suet, thyme, lemon peel ; 
nutmeg grated, 2 rolls grated and yolks of 4 eggs. Tie the 



OB WHAT SHAIyL WB EAT { 

head with thread, and stew 2 hours in 2 qts. gravy. 
Make the mixture into balls, and fry in dripping ; beat 
the brains with parsley, and fry in little cakes ; strain 
the gravy, and season with catsup, and serve the head 
with the fried balls and brains around it. 



Soft Boiled Custard, frozen ; with sliced peaches, curds, 
andwhey. — Wash very clean in cold water a piece of rennet 
2 inches square ; wipe it dry, and pour on it lukewarm 
water enough to cover it. Let it stand all night, then 
take it out, and stir the water into a quart of warm milk. 
Set the milk in a warm place till it becomes a firm curd 
— then on the ice. Eat with wine, sugar, and nutmeg. 

Melons, plums, and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Ham cake, cold beef, sardines, p4te de foie gras, 
wine jelly, sponge cake, berries, steamed toast, rolls, 
Indian bannock. Tea. 



SUNDAY. 



Breakfast. — Broiled salmon, cold corned beef, mutton 
chops, raw tomatoes, gems, rolls, bread, berries, Indian 
griddle-eakes. 



what shall we eat '. 89 

Dinner. 

Tomato Soup. — Chicken or veal broth thiclienod, with 
tomato pulp in it. 

Perch. 

Broiled Quail, with egg-plant, squash, corn, and to- 
matoes. 

Ragout of Veal. — Cut a neck of veal into steaks, flat- 
ten with a rolliug-pin, season with salt, pepper, and 
spice, lard them with bacon, lemon-peel, thyme, and dip 
them in yolks of eggs. Put in a pan with \ pt. strong 
gravy, and stew leisurely; season high, and add mush- 
rooms and pickles, also add a glass of wine. 

Besiert. 

Blackberry Pie. 

Lemon Pudding.— Qrate the rind of a fresh lemon, and 
squeeze in the juice. Stir together \ lb. powdered sugar, 
and \ lb. butter to a cream ; beat 3 eggs well and add ; 
mix all together with a tablespoonful of wine and brandy, 
and a teaspoonful of rose-water ; boat all very hard. 
Make a paste of 5 oz. flour, and | lb. butter ; cover a 
buttered soup-plate, put in the pudding, and bake a 
light brown. 

Peaches and grapes. 

Tea, ok Lunch. 
Boiled ham, cold birds, crackers, raw tomatoes, waf- 



90 

fles, dry toast, biscuit, peaches and cream, berries, G-er- 
man cake — from a Hungarian Countess (1 lb. sugar, 1 
lb. beaten almonds, 1 lb. citron beaten, 1 oz. mace, cin- 
namon and cloves mixed. Make as stiff as pie-crust, 
roll out an inch thick, cut in shapes, and glaze with 
sugar and water. It will keep a year.) Tea and choc- 
olate. 



SEPXEMCI5EK . 



MONDAY. 



Breakfast. — Cold chicken pie, broiled ham, scrambled 
eggs, fried potatoes, rolls, cream toast, berries and 
peaches, tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Soup a la Creci. — Grate the red part of 12 carrots, 
slice 4 onions, a turnip, 2 lettuces, a piece of lean ham, 
a few sprigs of parsley and thyme, and a few allspice ; 
put them all in a stewpan with a piece of butter ; let it 
simmer -^ an hour, then fill up with stock, and allow it 
to boil gently 2 hours ; put in the crumb of 2 rolls, and 
rub the whole through a tamis. Let it boil, skim it, add 
salt to taste, and a small lump of sugar. Put a little 
boiled rice in the tureen. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 91 

Cutlets of Sole. — Cut the sole in pieces crosswise, dry 
flour, egg, and crumb them ; fry crisp, and dish with 
parsley in the centre. 

Green Goose Roasted, with roast potatoes, squash, corn 
and tomatoes. 

Siewed Beef. — Stew the brisket in water enough to 
cover it ; when tender take out the bones, and skim the 
fat ; strain the gravy, and add a glass of wine and a 
small muslin bag of spice ; have ready boiled vegeta- 
bles, with mushrooms, cut thera in shapes, and lay around 
and upon the beef Pour the gravy over it. 

Dessert. 

Bread-and-butter Pudding. — Make a custard of 1 egg, 
and h pt. milk, by boiling the milk with lemon peel, and 
sugar, putting it on the fire with the egg to thicken ; 
butter slices of bread or roll, and soak them an hour or 
two in the custard, then lay them in a dish with cur- 
rants, and powdered sugar between each layer. Then 
pour over it another \ pt. milk beaten with 2 eggs, and 
bake. 

Creme mi caramel. 

Peaches and pears. 

Tea, ok Lunch. 

Cold mutton, tongue, Turk's cap, muffins, potted fish, 
cracker milk toast, jolly cake, berries, peaches, dry toast, 
tea. 



92 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

TUESDAY. 

Breakfmt. — Beef hash, pickled tripe, stewed pota- 
toes, corn bannock, rolls, bread, raw tomatoes, berries, 
and fruit. 

Dinner. 

Potato Soup. 
Bhiefish. 

Roast Lamb, with beans, tomatoes, potatoes, and corn 
fritters. Grate corn into a batter, and fry on a griddle. 
Beefs Heart Roasted. 



Baled Batter Pudding. — Make a batter with 6 oz. 
flour, 1 gill milk and 4 eggs ; make it the consistency 
of cream with more milk, and bake in cups. Cold sauce. 

Almond Croquantes. — Blanch and dry 1 lb. almonds, 
pound in a mortar with 1 lb. powdered sugar, rub 
through a wire sieve, then rub in f lb. butter, grated rind 
J a lemon, and yolks 3 eggs. Make into a paste, cut 
in shapes, and bake in a quick oven. When done dip 
them in sugar boiled to a syrup. 

Pears, plums, and grapes. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold goose, dried beef chipped, waffles, raw toma- 
toes, steam toast, berries, breadcake. Tea. 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 93 

WEDNESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Broiled kidneys, cold lamb, stewed to- 
matoes, boiled eggs, Graham biscuit, rolls, milk toast, 
baked potatoes. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Beef Soup. 

Roast Bolster. — Remove the shells from boiled lob- 
sters, lay them before the fire, and baste them with butr 
ter till they have a fine froth. Dish them with plain 
melted butter. 

BoiiilU, with corn, beans, egg-plant, and potatoes. 
Take from 4 to 6 lbs. of rump of beef, and allow 1 pt. 
cold water to every pound of meat ; let it simmer gently 
four or five hours, with a bunch of herbs, and an onion 
stuck with cloves ; then strain off the soup, leaving 
enough for sauce, to be served with the meat. Season 
with catsup, thicken, and add vegetables cut in shapes. 

Boned Lamb. — Bone the shoulder, stuff it with fine 
force-meat, and skewer it in a nice shape. Put it in a 
closely covered stewpan with 2 oz. butter, and a teacup 
of water, until the gravy is drawn ; cut the brisket in 
pieces, and stew them in gravy thickened with milk and 
egg ; thicken the gravy of the shoulder with any vege- 
tables in season. Place the shoulder in a dish with its 
gravy, and lay the brisket with white sauce around it. 



94 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

Bessert. 

BlaoTcberry Pie. 

Peach Pudding. — Scald till soft 12 peaches; put 
grated bread into a pint of boiling milk, and when half 
cold add 4 oz. sugar, the yolks of 4 eggs beaten, and 1 
glass of white wine. Mix with the pulp of the fruit, and 
bake in a paste. 

Pears and grapes. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Sardines, broiled ham, cold chicken, crackers and 
cheese, corn bread, buttered toast, berries, Harrison cake. 
Tea. 



THURSDAY. 
Brealcfast. — Liver hash, stewed mushrooms, cold ham, 
corn pone, raw tomatoes, cucumbers, fruit, fried pota- 
toes, griddle-cakes, rolls. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 
Green Corn Soup. 
Blachfish. 

Roast Chicliens, with-beans, baked tomatoes, and po- 
tatoes. 

Cold Tongue. 

Dessert. 
HueUeberry Pudding. — Put J lb. flour into a pan with 
a little salt, and add gently \ pt. milk. Beat the whites 



WUAT SDALL WE EAT? 95 

of 4 eggs to a solid froth, and add just as the batter is 
to bo used. Make it of a proper consistency with milk, 
and stir in the fruit. It may be baked or boiled. 

Custard Cream of Chocolate. 

Peaches, plums, and grapes. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold boned lamb, lobster salad, muffins, toast, ginger- 
bread, berries and peaches, sponge cake, crackers and 
cheese. Tea and chocolate. 



FRIDAY. 



JBrealcfast. — Broiled whitefish, cold tongue, dropped 
eggs, chipped potatoes, sliced onions and cucumbers, 
milk toast, rolls, berries. 

DiNNEK. 

JEel Soup. — Skin 3 lbs. small eels ; bone 1 or 2, cut in 
little pieces, and fry lightly with a bit of butter, and 
parsley. Put to the remainder 3 qts. water, a crust of 
bread, 3 blades mace, an onion, some whole pepper, and 
a bunch of herbs. Cover, and stew till the fish breaks 
from the bones ; then strain it off, pound to a paste, and 
pass through a sieve. Cut some toasted bread into 
dice, pour the soup on it, add the scallops of eel, and 



96 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

serve : ^ pt. cream or milk with a teaspoonful of flour 
rubbed smooth in it, is a great improvement. 

Baked, Codfish. 

Leg of Mutton, stuffed ; with corn, squash, and pota- 
toes. 

Stewed Larks. 

Dessert. 

Rolypoly Pudding. — Make a rich paste of butter and 
flour, as light as possible. Roll it thin, 8 or 10 inches 
wide, and as long as you please ; then spread a thick 
layer of fruit or jam upon it, leaving an inch of the 
edges bare. Then roll it round, lapping it over to se- 
cure the fruit. Wrap in a floured cloth, and boil 2 or 3 
hours. 

Imperial Cream. 

Melons and pears. 

Tea, or Luncu. 
Cold pigeon pie, pickled herring, baked potatoes, 
rusk, steam toast, berries and fruit, crackers and cheese, 
tarts. Tea and chocolate. 



SATURDAY. 



Breahfast. — Codfish balls, stewed eels, potted game, 
potatoes a, la maitre d'hotel, rolls, brown bread, fruit. 
Tea and coffee. 



what shall we eat? 97 

Dinner. 

Soupe di la Julienne. 

Haddoclc, hoiled. 

Roast Veal, with corn, linias beans, squash, and po- 
tatoes. 

Pilau of Rablit. — Cut up the rabbit ; pound an onion 
in mortar, extract the juice, and mix it with a saltspoon 
of ground ginger, a teaspoonful of salt, and the juice of a 
lemon. Kub this into the meat ; cut up 2 onions in 
slices, and fry them in J lb. butter ; when brown take 
them out, put in the rabbit, and let them stew together. 
Have J lb. rice half boiled in broth ; put the meat and 
all into a jar, with J pint milk, whole pepper, \ doz. 
cloves, and a little salt. Secure the mouth, and bake 
until done, adding a little broth to moisten if necessary. 

Dessert. 

Hiichleberry Piulding. 

Calfs-foot Jelly. — Boil a cow-heel in 2 qts. of water 
for 7 or 8 hours : take every particle of fat and sediment 
from the jelly ; when cold put to it a pint of wine, the 
juice of 3 lemons, and rind of 2 pared thin, 6 oz. sugar, 
the whites and shells of 3 eggs well beaten, and -J- oz. 
insinglass. Boil 20 minutes, and after adding a teacup of 
cold water, boil 5 minutes more ; then cover close, and 
5 



98 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

let it stand J an hour to cool; pour through a jelly-bag 
till clear, and put in a mould on the ice. 
Melons, pears, and plums. 

Tea, oe Lunch. 

Cold beef, -with tomato catsup, salad, potted fish, 
tongue, corn muffins, dry toast, berries and fruit, cucum- 
bers and radishes, fruit cake. Tea. 



SUNDAY. 
Breakfast. — Lamb chops, potato eakep, stewed toma- 
toes, pickled tongue, rolls, gems, berries and fruit. Tea 
and coffee. 

Dinner. 

8ov,p Maigre. — Pare and slice 5 or 6 cucumbers, 
and add to them the inside of as many lettuces, a sprig 
of mint, 2 onions, IJ pts. peas, and a little parsley. Put 
them into a saucepan with salt and pepper, and ^ lb. 
butter, to stew gently in their own liquor J an hour, then 
add 2 qts. boiling water, and stew them 2 hours ; rub a 
little flour into a teacup of water, boil 15 or 20 minutes 
with the rest, and serve it. 

Stewed Scallops. — Boil in salt and water (after 
straining off the liquor), then stew in the liquor, adding 
butter rolled in flour, cloves, and mace. 

Roast Ham, with corn, beans, and tomatoes. Soak 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 99 

the ham in lukewarm water for a day or two, changing 
the water often. Roast it slowly before the fire, basting 
with hot water, and when done dredge it all over with 
fine bread-crumbs, and brown. 

Veal Cutlets, with Bice. — Pound a cupful of rice boiled 
in milk, with pepper and salt, in a mortar ; cold veal in 
the same way ; mix together with yolk of egg, from into 
cutlets, brush with yolk of egg, and fry them. Cover 
them with mushrooms pickled, or any piquant sauce. 

Dessert. 

Soft loiled Custard. 

Transparent Pudding. — Beat 8 eggs, put them into a 
stewpan with | lb. powdered sugar, same of butter, and 
some grated nutmeg. Keep stirring on the fire till it 
thickens. Put a puff paste round the edge of the dish, 
pour in the pudding cool, and bake in a moderate 
oven. Add candied orange and citron if you like. 

Peaches, melons, and grapes. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Broiled smoked salmon, cold ham, dried beef, boil- 
ed rice, corn bread, toast, berries and fruit, tom,atoes 
dressed, German cake. 



100 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

OCTOBEK. 

MONDAY. 

Brealifad. — Cold chicken, minced veal on toast, fried 
scallops, omelet, baked potatoes, corn pone, milk toast, 
berries. Tea and coiFec. 

Dinner. 

Macaroni Soup. 

Halibut. 

Roast Woodcoeh, with squash, egg-plant, tomatoes, 

and potatoes. 

Chichm Pie. 

Dessert. 

Quince Pudding. 

Burnt Cream. 

Grapes, pears, and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Ham cake, potted game, sardines, waffles, gems, 
biscuit, stewed pears, Spanish buns, breadcakc. Tea 
and chocolate. 



TUESDAY. 
Breakfast. — Broiled liver, cold mutton, tomatoes, fried 
potatoes, cold woodcock, cracker milk toast, rolls. Tea 
and coifee. 



WUAT SHALL WE EAT? 101 

DiNNEE. 

Oyster Soup. 

Boiled Codfish. 

Roast Beef, with potatoes, cauliflower, and squash. 

Miroton of Veal. 

Dessert. 

Apple Charlotte. — Pare and slice apples ; cut slices of 
bread and butter ; place the latter all around the inside of 
a buttered pie-dish; then put in a layer of apples 
sprinkled with chopped lemon peel, and considerable 
brown sugar ; then put in a layer of the bread, and 
one of apples, repeating till the dish is full. Squeeze 
over all the juice of lemons, so that it will be well 
flavored. Cover up the dish with crusts, bake 1\ hours, 
remove the crust, and turn out. 

Vanilla Cream. 

Pears, grapes, and nuts. 

Tea, oe Lunch. 

Cold chicken pie, fried oysters, chopped vegetables 
on toast, peaches and cream, Graham bread, rolls. Tea 
and chocolate. 

WEDNESDAY. 
Breahfast. — Minced beef, cold ham, dropped eggs, 
chipped potatoes, Indian griddle-cakes, rolls. Tea and 
cofiee. 



102 what shall we eat? 

Dinner. 
Pea Soup. 
Baked Pike. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton, caper sauce, with stewed po- 
tatoes, cabbage, beans, and spinach. 
Sweetlreads, stewed. 

Bessert. 
Brandy Pudding. 
Peach Pie. 
Grapes, apples, and almonds. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Clam fritters, potted game, veal sandwiches, apple 
sauce, muffins, toast, corn bannock, sponge cake. Tea. 



THUESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Pickle shad roes, broiled oysters, mutton 
chops, corn bread, milk toast, rolls. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 
Tomato Sovp. 
Smelts. 

Roast Partridges, with squash, egg-plant, and ho- 
miny. 

Stewed Beef. 



WHAT SHALL WE BAT? 103 

Dessert 

Arroivroot Pudding. 

Baked Custard. 

Candied fruits, bonbons, and nuts. 

Tea, oe Lunch. 

Pickled oysters, broiled ham, flour griddle-cakes, with 
sugar and nutmeg, rice balls, stowed plums, jelly cakes, 
tea, toast, crackers and cheese. 



FRIDAY. 



Brealifast. — Broiled halibut, fried si; lUops, cold boiled 
chickens, poached eggs, milk toast of brown bread, muf- 
fins, rolls. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 
Vermicelli Soup. 
Bluejish. 

Roast Pork, with apple-sauce, tomatoes, squash, and 
potatoes. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

Bessert. 
Apple Pie. 
Blancmange. 
Grapes, pears, and figs. 



104 what shall we eat'? 

Tea, ok Lunch. 

Cold birds, tongue. Lam toast, cheese, cream cakes 
raised biscuit, steam toast, baked sweet apples, fruit cake. 



SATURDAY. 

Breakfast. — Corned beef hash, cold tongue, potted 
fish, brown bread, corn pone, rolls. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Clam Soup. 
Soles. 

Boiled Chichens, oyster sauce, with potatoes, egg 
plant, baked potatoes, and squash. 
Boiled Tongue. 

Dessert. 

Damson Pudding. — Take a few spoonfuls from a qt. of 
milk, and mix into it by degrees 4 spoonfuls flour, 2 of 
ginger, and a little salt ; then add the rest of the milk, 
and 1 lb. of damsons. Tie it in a wet, floured cloth, and 
boil IJ hour; pour over it melted butter and sugar. 
Chocolate Cream. 
Grapes, pears, and nuts. 



what shall we eat ? 105 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Broiled salt mackerel, cold roast pork, raw oysters, 
baked pears, muffins, doughnuts, fried bread, rolls, cup- 
cake. Tea. 



SUNDAY. 
Breakfast. — Cold roast duck, fried potatoes, hominy, 
omelet with parsley, minced fresh fish, brown bread 
milk toast, corn bannock, rolls. Tea and cocoa. 

DiNNEK. 

Veal Broth. 

Bahed Whitefish. 

Boast Veal, with cauliflower, spinach, and potatoes. 

Broiled Snipe. 

Dessert. 
Riee Pudding. 
Lemon Cream. 
Orange.s, apples, and grapes. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Chicken patties, potted tongue, sardines, dry toast, 
crackers and cheese, preserved quinces, Graham biscuit, 
rolls, macaroons and cocoanut cakes. Tea. 

5* 



106 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 



MONDAY. 

Breakfast. — Pork steak, cold quail, pickled scallops, 
baked potatoes, milk tost of brown bread, rolls. Tea 
and coffee. 

DiNNBK. 

Harrico Soz<^. — Take mutton cutlets, trim, and fry 
-to light brown ; then stew in 3 qts. of brown gravy soup 
till tender. Take 2 carrots, 2 onions, celery cut fine, a 
glass of port wine, and one of mushroom catsup, and add 
to the soup, after straining. Cook till all is tender, and 
thicken with a little butter and flour. 

BlacTcfish, boiled. 

Roast Beef, with lima beans, squash, and potatoes. 

Spiced Veal. — Two and a half lbs. of veal well chopped, 
4 crackers pounded fine, 2 eggs, 2 slices of pork chopped 
fine, a piece of butter size of an egg, ^ teaspoonful pep- 
per, and same of salt. Put into a shape, cover with 
bread crumbs, and bake 2 hours. 

Dessert. 
Carrot Pie. — Boil and strain 6 carrots to a pulp, add 
3 pts. milk, 6 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls butter melted, juice 



■VVUAT SHALL WE EAT ? 10'? 

of ^ a lemon, and grated rind of a whole one. Sweeten 
and bake in a deep dish. 

Sponge Pudding. — Butter a mould thickly, and fill it 
three parts full of small sponge cakes soaked in wine, 
then fill up the mould with a rich cold custard. Put 
a buttered paper over the mould, and bake it. Serve 
with wine sauce. 

Plums, pears, and chestnuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Eice Calces. (Soak J lb. rice over night, boil soft, 
drain dry, mix 5 lb. butter with it, and set away to cool. 
Then stir it into a qt. of milk, stir in ^ pt. flour, and add 
6 eggs with salt. Fry thin on a griddle). Cold tongue. 
Potted Fish. (Boil lobsters, shrimps, or any shell-fish, pick 
out the meat, and put in a stew-pan with a little butter, 
chopped mushrooms, and a little salt. Simmer gently, 
then add the yolks of 2 eggs beaten with a cup-full of 
milk or cream, and a little chopped parsley. Let all 
stew till of the consistency of paste, then put into a pot, 
and press down. When cold cover with melted butter, 
and tie on an oil-skin cover). French rolls, Grraham 
bread, stewed quinces. Tea and coifeo. 
Cup-cake, with hickory nuts. 



108 WHAT SHALL WE BAT? 

TUESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Cold turkey, sweetbreads, stewed with 
mushrooms, buckwheat cakes, wheaten grits with cream, 
rolls and bread. Coffee. 

Dinner. 

White Soup. — Take broth made of veal, or white 
poultry, cut the meat off, and put the bone back, adding 
2 or 3 shank-bones of mutton, and ^ lb. fine lean bacon, 
with a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of fresh lemon-peel, 
2 or 3 onions, 3 blades of mace, and a dessertspoonful of 
white pepper. Boil all till the meat falls quite to pieces, 
and strain. 

Trout. 

Roast Prairie Chiclcens, with sweet potatoes, rice, and 
beets, spiced currants. 

Moch. — One lb. rump steak, do. pork steak, ^ loaf 
of bread. Chop together like sausage-meat, add 2 eggs, 
and season with salt, pepper, and sage. Bake like bread, 
and cut in slices. 

Dessert. 

Qimlcing Pudding. — Scald 1 qt. of cream (or milk), and 
when almost cold add 4 eggs well beaten, IJ spoonfuls 
of flour, nutmeg, and sugar. Tie it close in a buttered 



WHAT SHALL WJS EAT? 109 

oloth, boil one hour, turn it out with care, and servo 
■with wine sauce, 

Cranberry Tarts. 

Pears and hickory nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold lamb with tomato catsup. Kidney Fritters. (4 eggs 
well beaten, with a teacup of cream or milk, pepper and 
salt, pounded mace, chopped parsley, and mushrooms, or 
mushroom catsup. Chop the kidneys fine, and mix 
together; pour into a buttered pan, and stir over the 
fire.) Muffins, Graham crackers, bread, quince jelly, ma- 
caroons. Tea. 



WEDNESDAY. 

Brealcfast. — Beef hash, salt mackerel broiled, cold 
duck, buckwheat cakes, rolls, boiled hominy. Tea and 

coffee. 

Dinner. 

A Cheap Soup. — Two lbs. lean beef, G potatoes, G 
onions parboiled, a carrot, turnip, head of celery, ^ pt. 
split peas, 4 qts. water, some whole pepper, and a red 
herring. Boil well, and rub through a coarse sieve. 
Serve with fried bread. 

Boiled Pereh. — Boil quickly with salt, then simmer 
slowly 10 minutes ; melted butter and parsley sauce. 



110 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

Boihil Mutton, butter sauce, with potatoes, onions, 
turnips, and carrots. 

A French Pie. — Lay a puff paste on the edge of a dish, 
put veal in slices with forcemeat balls, and sweetbreads 
cut fine. Add mushrooms, seasoning, cover with gravy, 
a crust, and bake 1 hour. 



Hasty Pudding. — One qt. milk, while boiling shake 
in 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, and stir till it thickens. 
Put in a deep dish, stir in an oz. of butter, do. sugar, 
and add grated nutmeg. Sugar sauce. 

Floating Island. 

Pears, apples, and dates. 

Tea, oil LuNcn. 

Cold roast veal, birds stewed and spiced, cold. Po- 
tato Fritters. (Boil 2 large potatoes, scraped fine, 4 eggs, 
1 large spoon of cream, do. wine, a squeeze of lemon, 
and a little nutmeg. Beat the batter J an hour, and fry 
in boiling lard.) Corn pone, crackers, and cheese, stewed 
pears, dry toast, bread, tea. Seed Cake. (IJ lbs. flour, 1 
lb. sugar, 8 eggs, 1 oz. seeds, 2 spoonfuls yeast, and 
same of milk.) 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? Ill 

THUESDAY. 
Breakfast. — Cold rabbit, minced mutton, poached 
eggs, corn muffins, rice cake, rolls. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Spam'sh Soup. — Three lbs. beef, 1 lb. ham, cover well 
with water, boil and skim. Add a teaspoonful pepper, 
simmer 2 hours ; cook separately a cup of rice, onions cut 
small, and cabbage. Eat them separate from the soup 
if desired. 

Hoast Oysters. 

Boast Veal, with corn, tomatoes, and baked mashed 
potatoes. 

£eef Steak Broiled. 



rt. 
Peaeh Pie. 

Matrimony. — Make ice cream, after the Newport re- 
ceipt, (1 qt. milk, 1 pt. cream, 2 tablespoons corn starch, 
and the yolk of one egg, sweeten and flavor to taste ; 
mix the corn starch in part of the milk, and add the 
egg, then add to the milk, boiling hot. When cool it is 
ready for the freezer, — and mix with fresh, or canned 
peaches ; freeze all together.) 
Grapes, chestnuts, and pears. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Cold roast beef, pickled tripe, crackers with anchovy, 
paste spread on them ; raspberry jam, corn bread, dry 



112 WHAT SHALL "WE EAT ? 

toast. Sponge Cahe. (Break 10 eggs into a deep pan, with 
1 lb. sifted sugar, set tlie pan into warm water, and beat 
^ of an hour, till the batter is thick and warm. Then 
take out of the water, and whisk till cold. Stir in lightly 
1 lb. flour, and flavor with essence of lemon.) Tea and 
chocolate. 



FRIDAY. 
Brealcfast. — Turkey hash on toast, cold ham, sardines, 
scallops fried, cream toast, rolls. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Game Soup. — Take 2 old birds, or pieces left from 
the table, cut fine, with 2 slices of ham, 3 lbs. of beef, a 
piece of celery, and 2 large onions. Put on the fire with 
5 pts. of boiling water, and stew gently for 2 hours. 
Then strain, and put back into the pot with some stewed 
celery, and fried bread, season well, skim, and serve hot. 

Lohster. 

Boast Lamh, with cauliflower, oyster plant, and po- 
tatoes. 

Chicken Pie. — ■ Half boU a large fowl, and cut in 
pieces ; put the broth rich into a deep dish with a hand- 
ful of parsley scalded in milk, and season well. Add 
the fowl, and bake with a raised crust. When done, lift 
the crust, and add |- pt. cream, scalded, with a little but- 
ter and flour in it ; mix well with the gravy. 



WnAT SHALL WE EAT V 113 

Dessert. 
Apple Pie. 

Boiled Rice, in cups, with cream and sugar. 
Apples, pears, and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Dutch herring, raw oysters, cold hock, milk toast, 
Graham bread, stewed apples. Spanish Fritters. (Cut 
French rolls into pieces length of a finger, mix together 
one egg, cream, sugar, and cinnamon, and soak them in 
it. When well soaked, fry a light brown, and serve with 
wine and sngar sauce.) Chocolate, cheese. 



SATURDAY. 
Breakfast. — Beefsteak with mushrooms, cold potted 
game, fried Indian pudding, sausage, toast, rolls. Tea and 
coffee. 

Dinner. 
Venison Soup. — 4 lbs. venison cut in small pieces, 
and stewed gently in brown gravy soup. Strain, and 
serve with French beans cut in diamonds, adding 2 glass- 
es of port wine ; separate from the soup if desired. 
Fried Perch. 

Roast Turhey, cranberry sauce, with potatoes, beets, 
and squash. 



114 WHAT SHAiL WE EAT? 

Irish Stew. — 5 thick mutton chops, 2 lbs. potatoes, 
peeled and cut in balve?, 6 onions sliced, and seasoning. 
Put a layer of potatoes at the bottom of the pan, then 
a couple of chops, and some onions ; then another similar 
Add 3 gills of gravy, and 2 teasponfuls mushroom catsup. 
Cover close, and stew 1^ hours. A small slice of han? 
Is an addition. 

Dessert. 

Baked Apple Dtimplings. 

Blancmange. 

Fruit and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Cold tongue, pickled fish, French bread, boiled rice 
stewed prunes. Ginger Potmd-calce. (I lb. butter, do. 
sugar, do. flour, 8 eggs, and 2 tablespoons yellow ginger.) 
Tea and coffee. 



SUNDAY. 
Breakfast. — Cold roast turkey, ham cake, anchovy, 
toast, fried samp, buckwheat cakes, brown bread, gems. 
Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 
Tomato 8oiip. — Plain beef soup, with 2 cups of fresh 
or canned tomatoes, well seasoned. 
Boiled Cod, oyster sauce. 



WHAT SHALL. WE BAT? 115 

Roast Duchs, with currant jelly, sweet potatoes, cau- 
liflower, spinach, and stewed potatoes. 
Boiled B^am. 

Dessert. 
Mince Pie. 
Delicate Dish. 
Grapes, apples, and almonds. 

Tea, oe Lunch. 
Broiled salmon, cold corned beef, Boston crackers, with 
tomato catsup, waffles, dry toast, preserved grapes, as- 
sorted cakes. Tea. 



MONDAY. 

Breakfast.— Fried chicken, cream sauce, potatoes ^ la 
maitre d' b6tel, baked beans, brown bread, rolls, dry 
toast. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Ox-tail Soup. — Cut up 2 ox-tails, separating them at 
the joints ; fry them with butter, together with 4 lbs. of 
gravy beef, a carrot, turnip, 3 onions, a leek, a Lead of 
celery, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; add a pint of water, 
and a teaspoonful of peppercorns ; stir over the fire till 
the pan is covered with a glaze ; fill up the pot with 3 



116 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

qts. of water, and when it boils set it where it will sim- 
mer until the tails are tender, then trim them and laj 
aside. Cut some turnips and carrots in fancy shapes 
(about -J a pt. of the two), 2 doz. button onions, and a 
bead of celery ; boil them in a little soup till quite ten- 
der ; strain off the soup through a fine napkin, add the 
vegetables and tails, and season with salt, pepper, and a 
small piece of lump sugar. 

Sea-lass, lutter sauce. 

Broiled ChicTcen, oyster sauce ; with potatoes, cauli- 
flower, and lima beans. 

Venison Steal. 

Dessert. 

Tapioca Pudding. — Simmer 4 oz. tapioca in a pint of 
milk, ten minutes ; then add ^ pt. cream, a teaspbonful 
pounded cinnamon 4 oz. butter warmed, same of white 
sugar, and yolks of 4 eggs well beaten ; a little oil of 
almonds will improve the flavor. Bake half an hour. 

Custard Pie. 

Pears, grapes, and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Pickled shad, cold mutton, clam fritters (make a 
batter as for common fritters, and stir in the clams 
chopped fine), steam toast, crackers, French bread, quince 
marmalade, cream cake, (1 lb. of fiour, do. sugar, IJ lbs. 
of butter, i pt. milk, 4 eggs, citrons, raisins and spice.) 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 117 

TUESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Cold venison pie, fried scallops, fried 
sweet potatoes, cream toast, potted fisli, rolls. Chocolate 
and coffee. 

DiNNEK. 

Macaroni Soup. — A plain beef soup with Italian 
macaroni boiled in it. 

Frosffish fried. 

Roast Beef, with baked potatoes, sj^inach, and beets, 

CMchen Croquettes. — Take the white meat and chop 
fine, with bread crumbs, sage leaves, pepper and salt, and 
one egg. Roll into balls and fry. 

Dessert. 
Plum Pudding. — One lb. stoned raisins, do. currants, 
do. fresh beef suet chopped fine, 2 oz. sweet almonds, and 
1 of bitter, blanched and pounded ; mix together with 

1 lb. flour, do. bread crumbs, soaked in milk (sc[ueezed 
dry, and reduced to a mash before mixing with the flour) , 

2 oz. each of citron, preserved orange and lemon peel, 
and g- oz. mixed spice (2 wine-glasses of brandy should 
be poured over the fruit and spice, mixed together, and 
allowed to stand 3 or 4 hours before the pudding is 
made), \ lb. moist sugar beaten with 8 eggs ; stir all in 
the pudding, and make it thin enough with milk — con- 
sistence of good batter. It must be tied in a cloth, and 



118 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

will take five hours' constant boiling. When done, sift 
loaf sugar over the top, and serve with wine sauce. 

Creine a la vanille. — Boil ^ a stick of vanilla in ^ pt. 
of new milk until it has a high flavor ; have ready dia 
solved in water 1 oz. of isinglass, mix with the milk, 
and 1:^ pts. of fine cream ; sweeten with fine sugar, and 
whip until quite thick, then pour into the mould, and 
sot in a cool place. 

Pears, grapes, and nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Potted game, sardines, cold chicken, cracker toast, 
rolls, stewed prunes, bread cake, 



WEDNESDAY. 

Brealcfast. — Veal cutlets, fried scallops, boiled hominj, 
cold boiled ham, rolls, flour griddle-cakes. Tea and 
coffee. 

DiNNEE. 

Cottage Sotq). — Two lbs. lean beef cut into smqjl 
pieces, J lb. bacon, 2 lbs. mealy potatoes, 3 oz. rice, car- 
rots, turnips, and onions sliced, or leeks and cabbage. 
Fry the meat, onions and cabbage in butter or dripping, 
and then put them in a gallon of water, to stew gently 
for 3 hours, putting in the rice, carrots, and turnips only 
long enough to allow them to get well done. Mash the 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 119 

potatoes, and pass through a colander, season well, and 
keep closely covered. It will make 5 pts. of excellent 
soup, at small cost. 

Stewed JSels. — Cut the eels in pieces, fry until brown, 
then let them cool. Take an onion, some parsley, a sage 
leaf chopped, and put them in some gravy with a clove, 
blade of mace, pepper and salt, a glass of port wine, and 
a little lemon-juice. Strain the sauce, thicken with 
butter and flour, add a little catsup, and stir the eels 
until tender. 

Roast Zamh, mint sauce, with mashed potatoes baked, 
macaroni baked with cheese, and turnips. 

Cold Quail pate. 



Swiss Pudding. — Put layers of bread crumbs and 
sliced apples, with sugar between, till the dish is full. 
Let the crumbs be uppermost, then put butter warmed 
over it, and bake. 

Squash Pie. — One qt. pulp strained, 1 qt. milk, with 
the squash stirred in when boiling, with two spoonfuls 
flour, 2 eggs, piece of butter size of an egg, season to 
taste with sugar, cinnamon, and a little salt. 

French chestnuts boiled, and pears. 
Tea, or Ltjnoh. 

Cold game pie, cold roast beef, fried Indian pudding, 
toast, blackberry jam, cheese, bread and butter; jelly 



120 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

cake (make three or four thin sheets of cup cake, 1 cup 
butter, 2 of sugar, 3 of flour, and 4 eggs, J teaspoonful 
of soda, and 1 of cream of tartar, latter shaken in thd 
flour dry, and spread with jelly, laying one over the 
other). Chocolate. 



THURSDAY. 

Breakfast. — Lamb chops, fried oysters, cold tongue, 
corn pone, Grraham biscuit, rolls. Tea and cofiee. 

Dinner, 

Gravy Soup. — Lean beef in the proportion of 1 pt. 
water to 1 lb. meat, and 2 oz. of ham ; cover with water 
and simmer for 3 hours, during which time it must not 
boil, as the pores of the meat will then be opened and 
the gravy drawn, throw in 3 qts. of warm water, with 
^ oz. each of pepper, allspice, and salt, as well as sweet 
herbs, cloves, 2 or 3 carrots and turnips, together with 
2 heads of celery, and boil all slowly till the meat is 
done to rags. Strain it well. It will keep well. 

Fried Perch. 

Roast Chielens, with cauliflower, boiled rice, and 
sweet potatoes ; cranberry sauce. 

Calfs Brains, fried in latter. 



■WHAT SHALL AVE EAT? 121 

Dessert. 

Lemon Pie. 

Charlotte liiisse. — Line the bottom of a mold with 
Savoy biscuits, or sponge cakes, and fill it with any kind 
of cream, according to taste. 

Apples, grapes, and hickory nuts. 

Tea, or Lunch. 

Ham cake, cold birds, omelet, crackers, corn bread, 
rolls, stewed pears ; cheese cake, {I lb. butter, do. sugar, 
beaten together, 4 eggs, J pt. milk with half the egg 
boiled together till it becomes a curd, stirred with a 
knife, with 2 oz. grated bread thrown in. Stir all into 
the butter and sugar, with the rest of the egg, and add 
i lb. currants, J glass wine or brandy, and teaspoonful 
of cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg mixed. Bake in a paste 
i an hour.) 



FRIDAY, 



Breakfast. — Chicken hash, sausage toast, minced salt 
codfish with potatoes, fried hominy, Indian griddle-cakes, 
bread and butter, toast. Tea and cofieo. 



D[NNEK. 



Chicken hroth, with rice. 
Striped Bass, Iroiled. 
6 



122 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

Roast Goose, with apple-sauce, tomatoes, potatoes, 
and beets ; chow-chow pickle. 
Broiled Oysters. 



Baked Indian Pudding. — Boil a pint of milk, and into 
it stir 1 cup meal, do. molasses, one teaspconful salt, 
first mixed with a little cold milk ; boil it, and pour it 
into a deep earthenware pot, well buttered, and with a 
pint of cold milk in it ; add one egg and a teaspoonful of 
ginger. Bake in a slow oven. 

Wine Jelly. 

Oranges, filberts, and dates. 

Tea, or Lunch. 
Boned turkey, sardines, cold roast chicken, brown 
bread, milk toast, bread, crackers and cheese, stewed 
peaches, La Galette cake (1 lb. of flour, do. butter, 
2 eggs ; knead all into a paste, and. make the size of a 
dessert plate; put in the oven \ of an hour, then take it 
out, beat up 2 more eggs with a little cream and salt, 
pour over the cake, and bake \ of an hour more). 



SATURDAY. 
Breakfast. — Cold roast goose, head cheese, corned beef 
hash, stewed potatoes, steam toast, muffins, bread. Tea 
and coffee. 



what shall we eat? 123 

Dinner. 

Potato Soup. — Take large mealy potatoesj peel and 
cut in small slices, with an onion ; boil in 3 pts. water 
till tender, and pulp through a colander. Add a small 
piece of butter, a little cayenne pepper, and salt, and just 
before the soup is served 2 .spoonfuls of good cream. It 
must not boil after the cream is put in. 

Eoast Oysters, on toast. 

Boiled Corned Beef, with rice croquettes, potatoes, and 
cabbage. 

Partridges roasted ; currant jelly. 

Dessert. 
Peach Pic. 

Cream Meringues. — (From the Confectioner.) 
Oranges and nuts. 

Tea, or Lukcu. 

Chicken Salad. — (Cut the meat from 2 fowls, boiled or 
roasted, in pieces not exceeding an inch ; white part of 2 
large bunches of celery in the same way, mix together 
cover, and set away. Mash the yolks of 9 hard boiled 
eggs to a paste, and mix with -J pt. sweet oil, do. vine- 
gar, a gill mustard, a teaspoonful cayenne, and one of 
salt. Stir till well mixed and smooth. Then set away. 
Five minutes before the salad is wanted, pour the dressing 
on, and mix well). Cold veal, boiled rice, rolls and 



124 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

bread, canned peaches. French Cake — Bolm cfAinor (l^ 
lbs. flour, 1 cup yeast, ^ pt. milk warmed, 1 lb. butter, 
4 eggs. Make a hole in the flour, and pour in the milk, 
eggs, and yeast. Mix all together, beating in the butter 
by degrees, and let it stand an hour to rise. Mix in l 
lb. sifted sugar ; ornament with citron). Tea and choco- 
late. « 



SUNDAY. 
Breakfast. — Broiled ham, cold roast pork, chipped po- 
tatoes, buckwheat cakes, gems, rolls. Tea and coffee. 

Dinner. 

Winter Soup. — 2 carrots, do. turnips, and the heart 
of a head of celery. Cut into small pieces with 6 button 
onions, and half boil in salt and water, with a little su- 
gar, then throw into a rich beef broth. Add small 
dumplings boiled in water, just before serving. 

Fried Trout. 

Stewed Chiclcens — With macaroni stewed, and pota- 
toes. Cut in pieces and scald, fry in butter with sweet 
herbs chopped, pepper and salt, and add boiling water 
and flour. Stew until cooked, and add a tablespoon of 
cream, yolk of an egg, and a little lemon juice. 

Quail on Toast. 

Dessert. 

Batter Pudding. — 1 qt. milk, 6 eggs, 14 tablespoons 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 125 

flour, a little salt. Boil 1 hour and 10 minutes; cold 
wine sauce. 

Brandy Peaches. 

Prunes, grapes, and nuts. 

Tea, ok Lunch. 
Cold beef, partridge pate, steam toast, muffins ; pre- 
served plums, bread, tea, cookies (1 cup butter, 2 sugar, 
5 flour, 1 egg, 4 tablespoons milk, and spice). 



WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 127 



APPENDIX 



Pickles and Sauces. — Avoid all use of metal vessels 
in their preparation, use wooden spoons, and keep in 
wide-moutlied bottles. 

To Pickle small Cuctimhers. — Take one hundred — in Sep- 
tember — place in a deep stone jar, sprinkle with a pint of 
salt, pour on boiling water, and cover tight, that no steam 
evaporate. Let them stand twenty-four hours. Wipe 
each one dry with a cloth. 

Place in an unglazed jar, and cover with boiling vino 
gar, spiced, with cloves, whole pepper -.vA uiace. Eat 
after two weeks. The same proportion for any number. 

To Pickle Cauliflower. — Strip off the leaves, quarter 
the stalk, and scald in salt and water till soft ; dry on 
a sieve, and cut in small pieces after twenty-four hours ; 
place in a jar, and cover with cold spiced vinegar : seal up. 

To Pickle Eggs. — Boil hard, twelve or more, and lay 
into cold water ; peel off the shells, and lay whole into 
a stone jar, with mace, cloves, and nutmegs. Fill up 
with boiling vinegar, cover close ; after three days scald 
the vinegar again, and pour over ; cork tight. Use in 
two weeks. 



128 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

To PioMe Mushrooms. — Clean, and place in layers 
sprinkled with salt, for two days ; add whole black pep- 
per and spice ; cover close, and set in a cool oven for an 
hour. Strain off the liquor, and add cloves, mace, and 
allspice. Let it boil, then throw the mushrooms in, set 
away till cold, then add a little vinegar, and pot. 

To Pichle Walmits. — Gather about the middle of 
July ; prick with a needle, and put into water for three 
days, changing the water every day. Make a strong brine 
of salt and water, boil and skim ; when cold, take one 
gallon to every hundred walnuts. Let them stand six (6) 
days, change the water, and leave six days more. Drain, 
and expose to the sun, so they may turn black. Blake 
a strong pickle of wiiie vinegar, flavored with cloves, 
mace, whole pepper, mustard-seed, and horse-radish. 
Allow to every hundred walnuts, six spoonfuls of mus- 
tard-seed, with one of whole pepper. They will be good 
for years ; not fit for use for six months, however. 

To Piclde Lemons. — Take the finest, with thick rinds ; 
cut incisions, and fill them with salt. Pat on a dish, 
and lay near the fire, or in a hot sun ; repeat the opera- 
tion several times. 

Make a pickle of the best of cider vinegar, spiced 
with cloves, allspice and ginger, and pour over when 
cold ; bottle tight, and keep for years. 



WUAT SHALL AVE EAT? 129 

Walnut Vinecjar, — Put walnut shells into a strong 
brine for ten days, then lay in the sun for a week to dry. 
Place in jar, and cover with boiling vinegar. In ten 
days pour it off, and boil again. Then stand for a mouth, 
and it will be fit for use ; excellent for cold meat, and 
flavoring sauces. 

Cucumber Vmegar. — Pare and sWcq fifteen large ones; 
place in a stone jar, with three pints of vinegar, four large 
onions also sliced, two large spoonfuls of salt, three tea- 
spoonfuls of pepper, and one half a one of cayenne ; 
after standing four day-s, boil, and strain when cold, and 
bottle. 

Sauoe Uiiioersal- — Take one pint mushroom catsup, 
one glass of port-wine, and a teaspoonful of vinegar, one 
do. black pepper, salt, allspice, and minced onion. Set it 
in a jar in water, increasing the heat to 90° Fahrenheit ; 
stand twenty-four hours. Then after one week strain 
and bottle ; a groat addition to gravies. 

To Flavor Vinegar. — Take any kind of fruit, or herb, 
and boil in it a short time, and bottle when cold ; a great 
addition to cutlets. 

Jersey Pichle. — Slice and chop one peck green tomatos, 
six peppers and/ozer onions; throw over them one cup of 



130 WHAT ^HALL WE EAT? 

salt, and let them stand twenty-four hours; then drain,, 
and put into a stewpan, cover with the best of cider vin- 
egar, stewing slowly. Add one cup brown sugar, two 
spoonfuls horse-radish grated, one of powdered cloves, 07ie 
of allspice, ofie of cinnamon, and boil full three hours ; 
bottle in wide-mouthed jar, and seal. 

Chile Sauce. — Three peppers chopped fine, seeds in- 
cluded ; one large onion, twelve ripe tomatoes, peeled ; 07ie 
tablespoonful of salt, one of sugar, one teaspoonful of all- 
spice, do. clove?, do. ginger, do. nutmeg, two tea-cups of 
best of vinegar ; boil well one hour and bottle. 

Tomato Catstip. — One gallon of skinned tomatoes, 
boiled and strained ; then add, four tablespoonfuls of salt, 
/bzir tablespoons of black pepper, ifwo of allspice, two oi 
cinnamon J one of red pepper pure, one quart wine vine- 
gar ; boil well one hour, bottle and seal, when cold. 
Keep in a dry place. 

Mushroom Catsup. — Break up the mushrooms, scrap- 
ing oflf the dirt with a knife ; place in layers in an earthen 
pan, sprinkling with salt. Cover the pan with a towel, 
for twenty four hours, rub them up, and strain through a 
muslin, squeezing out all the juice. To every quart add 
one tablespoonful of black peppers, whole, one teaspoonful 
of allspice, one half do. of cayenne, one dozen cloves, and 
fotw large blades of mace ; boil slowly four hours, pour 



WUAT SHALL WE DAT? 131 

iuto a bowl or deep dish to settle for twenty-four hours, 
covered. Thea pour gently through a fine hair-seivc, 
and put into small bottles, putting in the top of each one 
a few drops of olive-oil and sealing, the cork; it will keep 
for years, in a cool place. 

Preserves and Confectionery. — Every article of this 
kind should be made of the best of sugar, and small 
fruits for jams, previously boiled to evaporate the 
watery particles, before adding the requisite amount. 
The following is the best method we have seen for pre- 
serving fruit. 

Melt one pound of sugar in one half -pint of water, 
and put into every quart-bottle of fruit. Place the 
bottles in boiler, or steaming-box, in cold water, raising 
the heat to boiling point : have ready corks stoaaicd so 
as to be flexible, force them by blows from a mallet. 
Pare the corks close to the bottle. Have ready a vessel 
of melted sealing wax, of the following ingredients : One 
pound of rosin, three ounces beeswax, one and a half of 
tallow ; have ready a brush, and cover the corks, then 
dip the mouth into the melted wax ; then transfer it to a 
cold basin of water. Repeat the operation, and see that 
the wax is smooth and complete. Pack away in a cool, 
dry cellar, excluding all light. Examine after one weok, 
to see if there were flaws in the bottle ; or any marks of 



132 WHAT SHALL WE EAT? 

fermentation. Peaches and pears should be dropped 
into cold water, to prevent their color changing after 
paring. 

To Keep Grapes in Brandy. — Take large, close bunches, 
black or white ; lay them in a jar, put the weight of 
them in powdered sugar over them, and cover with 
brandy. Tie down with a bladder ; prick the grapes with 
a pin, first. 

To preserve Straiolerries in Wine. — Put large fine 
ones in a wide-mouthed bottle, strew over with fine sugar, 
fill up with Madeira wine or Sherry. 

To preserve Oranges or Lemons m Jelly. — Make a hole 
the size of a shilling, and scrape the pulp out clean ; lay 
in soft water for two days, then boil tender, slowly ; to 
every pound of fruit, take two of sugar, and one pint of 
water ; boil with the juice to a syrup, then boil the fruit 
in the syrup half an hour. 

Marmalades. — Boil ripe a23ricots in syrup j beat in a 
mortar, take half their weight in loaf sugar, and water to 
dissolve it ; boil well together till thick. 

Orange Compote. — Lay the oranges in water four 
hours, boil till tender, cut in halves, and take out the in- 
sides ; to every pound of peel, ivell pounded, add one of 



WHAT SUALL WIS EAT? 133 

sugar ; take out the seeds, add the weight in sugar to 
that, and beat ; mix and pot. 

To dry Cherries wiiJiout Sugar. — Stone, and set them 
over the fire, letting them simmer in their own liquor ; 
lot them get cold ; give them another scald, and spread 
on sieves to dry, in a cool oven. 

Orange Syrup. — Take large, deep-coloured oranges, 
and throw into water for twelve hours ; put into a cloth 
and boil, cut in quarters ; and after taking out the pulp, 
throw into cold water. Make a thick syrup, and add 
the pulp. 

Colour ing for Jollies. — For yelloiv, yolk of eggs, or a 
bit of saffron steeped in the liquid. For green, spinach 
leaves, or beet leaves. For red, beet root sliced. 

Bonbons. — Clear off the sugar from fresh candied 
citron ; cut into squares one inch thick, stick on a bit of 
wire, and dip into liquid syrup ; wet a dish with a few 
drops of pure olive oil, and lay the fruit to cool. 

Toffie. — Melt in a stewpan, three ounces of butter, 
add one pound of moist sugar, stir well over a slow fire, 
boil one quarter of an hour ; pour out on buttered dishes, 
and mark in squares. 

Candied Fruit. — When boiled in the syrup, put a 



1 34 WHAT SHALL WE EAT ? 

layer on a new sieve, and dip it suddenly into hot water, 
drain, and cover with sifted sugar ; dry in a warm oven, 
turning over frequently. 

Rcmpberry or Blaoliberry Vinegar. — Take a jar of vine- 
gar and fill with fruit ; let it stand for three days : strain, 
and for every pint of juice, add one pound of sugar ; boil 
up once, and skim ; bottle and seal. 



FINIS. 



COMPANION TO IRVING' S WASHINGTON. 

GEN. GREENE'S LIFE.— The Life of Nathaniel 
Greene, Major-General in the Army of the Revo- 
lution. By Geo. Washington Greene, author of Historical 
View of the American Revolution. 3 vols. 8vo. Univer- 
sity Press. The first volume will be ready Dec. 10. Price 
to Subscribers, $4 per volume. 

The history of the United States is naturally divided into three parts : 

1. The history of their foundation, or their Colonial history ; 2. The history 
of their transition from colonial to independent national life, or the history of 
the Revolution ; 5. The history of their constitutional life, or the histoiy of the 
growth of the Union. A thorough knowledge of each of these periods is es- 
sential to a just comprehension of the whole. The seeds of the Revolution 
must be sought in our Colonial history. The history of our life as a nation 
loses both its philosophical and its practical importance if separated from the 
history of the Revolution. A careful study of the War of Independence would 
have saved ns thousands of lives and minions of money in tlie War of the Re- 
bellion. _ Next to the life of Washington, it is in the life of Greene that this 
history is to be sought ; nor can it be fully understood without reading both. 
It is in the hope of contributing to the materials for this study, and m the 
conviction that to preserve the memory of great and good men is one of the 
highest offices of patriotism, that these volumes are offered to the student of 
American history. 

" The first vohime of the biography is a very handsome octavo volume of 
nearly six hundred pages, printed in the best style of the University Press, 
It brmgs Gen. Greene's life down to the year 177S, The style is clear, 
simple, vigorous, readily adapting itself to the varied demands of description, 
reflection, and narrative, and betraying on even^ page that unnamable pecu- 
liarity which indicates that the labor of composition is literally a labor of love, 
and that the biographer is writing from a full heart as well as from a full 
mind." — Boston Transcript, 



TUCKERMAN'S BOOK OF THE ARTISTS. 
8vo, cloth, $5. Large paper, $12.00. 

" No American author is better fitted than Mr. Tuckerman for the task he 
has undertaken and so ably executed." — N. V. Times. 

" As a book of general information about American art and artists, Mr. 
Tuckerman's book will be found both valuable and interesting." — Brooklyn 
Uition, 

" Mr. Tuckerman, than whom no writer could bring to the consideration o( 
his subject more diligence or a more hearty love of art, has prepared a com- 
IJendium of the history of American painting and sculpture, which supplies a 
want in our literature. His Book of the Artists is a full and interestinj record 
of the progress of Art in the United ^Uilei."—EtKKinji; Posi. 



22 Publications of 

NEW AND IMPORTANT EDUCATIONAL WORK. 



FAY'S GREAT OUTLINE OF GEOGRAPHY 
FOR HIGH SCHOOLS AND FAMILIES. 

The text-book in i2mo; the Atlas in large folio. Retail 
price, %'^.Tl ; Library edition, in cloth, $4.25. Liberal 
terms for schools. Teachers supplied with a copy for 
examination at half price. 

" The author of this work presents the public with an entirely new system 
of studying Geography. We confess the plan strikes us with great favor. 
Without disparaging other text-books, we must say, this seems to us to be 
more exactly adapted to its purpose than any. * * * * The mechani- 
cal execution of the Atlas deserves strong praise. If you have a child who 
is hard to learn Geography, or one who wishes to learn it easier, or if you 
wish to undertake a r^sum^ of your own knowledge, or add to what you 
already know, Fay's system is the way to do it, and his Great Outline the 
means. The most stupid will find that knowledge would be instilled into 
them in spite of themselves." — Albany Evening Joitrttal. 

" The treatise of Mr. Fay is complete in itself. He gives a well-constructed 
Atlas of the globe, and with it a little manual containing a series of lessons on 
the maps, with occasional illustrative comments. This careful map-study, em- 
bracing physical as well as political characteristics, may serve either as an in- 
troduction to geography or as a final review or rdsumd of one's knowledge. 
In either case it is adapted to the older scholars of our ordinary schools. The 
plan which it proposes seems to us very well carried out ; and simple as the 
'Outline' at first appears, we have been surprised to discover its comprehen- 
siveness and completeness. Obviously the book may be used advantageously 
before or after other books. There is one feature of the book which has par- 
ticularly interested us, bearing, as we presume, the impress of Mr. Fay's long 
acquaintance with German schools. It is intended that the scholar shall learn 
his lessons under the eye and with the aid of his teacher, who is to drii/ the 
class. Most of our American teachers do not teach, but hear recitations. Mr. 
Fay would have them go over each lesson with the class, and see that all its 
contents are mastered. 

" Mr. Fay's maps and text are brought down to the latest moment. Alaska 
belongs to the United States, the reconstructed North Germany is delineated, 
and the statistics are gathered froiv. Behm's admirable ' Hand-book,' and 
other recent publications. "^^!p/^ Natio7i, N. Y. 

, -:"- ■ ' "Boston, December 24. 

" The Atlas is better in executiorr than any School Atlas I have ever seen." 
— W. P. Atkinson, Prof, in Mass. Inst, of Technology. 

" Fay's Geography seems to meet a want not met by any existing works, 
and its execution is highly creditable to author and publishers." — Abner J. 
PiUPPS, Ageiii of Mass. Board of Education. 

" Of the mechanical part of the work, maps, printing, etc., there can be but 
one opinion. Nothing of the kind yet published surpasses it."— Eben S 
Stearns, N. V. State Normal Scltool, Albany. 

" I think Mr. Fay's Geography ought to supersede all others now i'l use. 
The opinion of Baron von Humboldt is enough to stamp its value anywhere." 
—John Catlin. 



G. P^ Ptitnam & So7i. 21 

NATURAL THEOLOGY; ot, Nature and the 
Bible from the same Author. Lectures delivered 
before the Lowell Institute, Boston. By P. A. Chad- 
bourne, A.M., M.D., President of University of Wis- 
consin. i2mo, cloth, $200. Student's edition, $1.75. 

" This is a valuable contribution to current literature, and will be found 
adapted to the uses of the class-room in college, and to tlie investigations of 
private students." — Richmond Christian Adv. 

" The warm, fresh breath of pure and fervent religion pervades these elo- 
quent pages." — A^n. Baptist. 

" Prof Chadbourne's book is among the few mataphysical ones now pub- 
lished, which, once taken up, cannot be laid aside unread. It is written in a 
perspicuous, animated style, combining depth of thought and grace of diction, 
with a total absence of ambitious display." — Washington National Republi- 
can. 

" In diction, method, and spirit, the volume is attractive and distinctive to a 
rare degree." — Boston TrtLveller. 

BENEDICITE ; or. Illustrations of the Power, Wis- 
dom, and Goodness of God in the Creation. By 
G. Chaplin Child, M.D. lamo, cloth, extra, gilt top, 
$2 50 ; red edges, $2.50 ; gilt edges, $3.00 ; morocco an- 
tique, $5.00. 

"Written in an easy and flowing style, abounding m illustrations and inci- 
dents, the book cannot fail to interest as well as instruct. The f^etting-up of 
the volume is exceedingly tasteful and elegant." — Journal and Me sse7iser. 

" The most admirable popular treatise of natural theology. It is no extrav- 
agance to say that we have never read a more charming book, or one which 
we can recommend more confidently to our readers with the assurance that it 
will aid them, as none that we know of can do, to 

' Look through Nature up to Nature's God.* 

Every clergyman would do well particularly to study this book. For the rest, 
the handsome volume is delightful in appearance, and is one of the most cred- 
itable specimens of American book-making that has come from the Riverside 
Vx&^y^Rmmd Table, N. V., June i. 

THE GHOST— A Story. By W. D. O'Connor. 
With two illustrations by Nast. i6mo, $1.25 ; 
gilt edges, I1.50. 

" Told with a tender-heartedness and naturalness of style which are certain 
to make it a favorite." — Brooklyn Unio7t. 

"Rich in sweetness, pathos, and tender humanity." — Pyj^idejice Jour- 
nal. 

" If he has other stories of this sort, we beg Inm to brmg them to liglif 
without delay." — Boston IFatchvian. 



G. P. Putnam & Sou. 



Alvord, and bound in rich morocco, by Matthews 
In one quarto vohime, morocco, $18.00; half mor., gill 
top, 5fi6.oo ; cloth, full gilt, $15.00. 

IRVING'S TRAVELLER. Tales of a Traveller. By 
Geoffrey Crayon, Gent. Author's revised edition. In 
one volume. Sunnyside Ed. i2mo., $2.50. Illust. ed. 
i2mo., mor., $6,00, 8vo., $8.00. Riverside Edition, 
l6mo., $1.75 ; full gilt, $3.00. 

Has always been one of the most popular of Irving's productions, and is 
not destined to lose the place it so soon acquired in the estimation of the 
world. — Boston Traveller. 

IRVING'S WOLFERT'S ROOST. Wolfert's Roost 
and other Papers, now first collected by Washington 
Irving. In one volume, i2mo. Sunnyside Edition, 
cloth, $2.50. Riverside Edition, cloth, $1.75. 

The isapers in the present volume are among his latest and most charming 
productions. — Chicago Tribune. 

MAGA STORIES. Comprising Seventeen Nota- 
ble Stories of varied character and lively interest, 
chiefly from Putnam^ s Monthly. i6mo. paper, 75 cts. ; 
cloth extra, bevelled, $1.25. 

MAGA SOCIAL PAPERS.—" Pithy and entertaining;" 
On a variety of topics relating to Society, Manners, 
Customs, and Habits of the time. By several hands. 
First contributed to Piiinai/i's Monthly. i6mo. paper, 
75 cts. ; cloth extra, bevelled, gilt tops, $1.25. 

MAGA EXCURSION PAPERS. Including Seventeen 
spirited and lively Sketches of Travel in two hemi- 
spheres and elsewhere. i6mo. paper, 75 cts. ; cloth 
extra, bevelled, $1.25. 

MAGA PAPERS ON PARIS. By H. T. Tuckerman. 
i6mo. paper, 60 cts. ; cloth extra, $1.00. 

•«* The above volumes are neatly printed in new and legible ty]"e, and will 
be found to b3 capital books for the fireside and for travellers. 



' The delight of childhood, the chivalric companion of re- 
fined womanhood, the solace of life at every period ; 
his writings are an imperishable legacy of grace 
and beauty to his countrymen." 



New Editions of Irving's Works, 

THREE EDITIONS ISSUED MONTHLY. 

I. THE KNICKERBOCKER EDITION.— Largs 
i2mo, on superfine laid paper, with Illustrations, elegantly 
printed from new stereotype plates, and bound in extra 
cloth, gilt top. Price to subscribers for the whole set, 
$2.25 per vol. Half calf, extra, I3.75. 

*** This edition will be sold only to subscribers for tlie whole set. It is the 
best edition for libraries and for the centre-table. 

II. THE RIVERSIDE EDITION.—iemo, on fine 
white paper ; from new stereotype plates ; green crape 
clothj gilt top, bevelled edges, $1.75 per vol. 

III. THE PEOPLE'S EDITION.—Yxom the same 
stereotype plates as above, but printed on cheaper paper, 
neatly bound in cloth ; price, J^i.25 per vol. 

The issue of the above several editions was commenced October i, 1867. 
A volume will be issued punctually on the first day of each month, until the 
whole series is completedj in the following order : 



Bracebridge Hall (Ready). 
Wolfert's Roost, " 
Sketch Book, " 

Traveller, " 

Knickerbocker (Feb.). 
Crayon Miscellany (Mar.). 



Goldsmith (April). 
Alhambra (May). 
Columbus, 3 vols. 
Astoria. 
Bonneville, 
Mahomet, 2 vols. 



Granada. 

Salmagundi. 
Spanish Papers. 
Miscellanies. 
Washington, 5 vols. 
Life and Letters, 4 vols. 



The re-issue of these works in their several forms is unusually elegant. 
The plates arc new, the paper superior, the printing elegant, and each, in pro- 
portion to price, combining good taste with economy. 



putnam'0 ittontl)liJ iltaga^inc 



LITERATURE, SCIENCE, ART, 



NATIONAL INTERESTS. 



The re-issue of Putnam's Magazine has been hailed with acclamatiOM in 
every section of the country, and the publishers are gratified at being able to 
acknowledge almost innumerable expressions of pleasure and good-will from 
readers and friends of the first series 'of " Putnam's Monthly." It is their 
purpose, in their new enterprise, to leave nothing undone to meet the expecta- 
tions and desires of the public. 

Putnam's Magazine will be a National Publication, supported by the 
best writers, in each department, from every section of the country. High 
toned papers on matters of National Interest, Popular Science, In 
DUSTRiAL Pursuits, and sound Information and Instruction on impor- 
tant topics, will be especia,lly cultivated. In the lighter articles, healthy enter- 
tainment and Pure Amusement for the family circle will be carefully chosen 
from the ample resources presented by a large circle of contrjbutor-s. 

TERMS: 
J4.00 per Annum in Advance, or 35 cents per number. Two copies to one 
address, $7.00; three copies to one address, $10.00 ; ten copies to one address, 
$30.00. Putnam's Magazine and Riverside Magazine for Young People 
(price $2.50) for $5. 50; Putnam's Magazine and The Round Table (price 
$6.00) for $S,oo. Or with . ^y other Journal or Magazine in the same propor- 
tion. 
Special Premiums for Clubs. 

G, P. PUTNAM & SON, Publishers, 

661 Broadway, New York. 



