Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



r^ A. ' . 



MR. MECHI'S 



FAEM BALANCE-SHEETS. 



•- « 



/ 



#^,Jl' 



PROFITABLE FARMING. 

MR. MECHI'S 

UTEST AOEIOOLTimAL 

SAYINGS AND DOINGS: 

BALANCE SHEETS 
From Jdnk 1807 (thb Datb of his labt Publioation), 




LONDON; 
GEORGE KOUTLEDGE & SONS, 

THH BKOADWAT, LUDQATE s 

jfiyr xoBEt iia, bbooub bibbbt. 



/^/, /t. iv-^ 



WTVAir ATTD BOVB, PBIirTBBS, 
GBBAT QUBBK STBBBT, LIKCOLir'S nrN" FIBLBS, 
LOITBON, W.C. 



PREFACE. 



AFTER twenty-five years of practical residential expe. 
rience at Tiptree, I am more and more convinced 
that oar national agriculture is capable of immense and 
profitable improvement by a greater investment of 
capital and intelligence, and by a more commercial and 
business-like action. In my own case the produce of the 
farm has been more than doubled. The like will be done 
over many millions of our poor acres when we have 
learned to spread our capital upon smaller areas, and 
invoke the aid of steam power — both on our fields 
and at our homestead. 

Art and science must be more generally agricultural 
helpmates. 

It no longer pays to trust to Nature alone. Land is 
becoming too valuable, and rents too high, for primitive 
or pastoral feirming. 

We speak complacently of depending upon foreigners 
for our grain, but, in the matter of clothing, are fever- 
ishly jealous of foreign imports and foreign competition. 

It appears to me to be as wrong to buy foreign food 
while we can produce it at home 'wiWi «^ Y^<i^^^ "as^ "^ 
is to prefer foreign clothing, and &o \^«iN^ o>a:t TSias>»: 
fdcturiDg population unenaployed. 
There is a very general convicWon «wm^Tv^ ^^^ 



vi PBEFAOE. 

business in our towns and cities that Great Britain cannot 
produce enough food for its population, and that therefore 
we must depend upon foreigners for a supply. This is 
quite a mistaken impression, as I have proved practically; 
for, although my farm is below^probably much below — 
the average of the United Kingdom, I produce profitably 
so much more than the usual average, that, if all our 
lands were made equally productive with mine, our 
population could not consume more than one -half the 
produce. Of course there is no fear or hope of our 
arriving at such a state of things, but it proves how large 
a margin there is for a profitable increase of our home 
productions. One can easily imagine what an amount 
of industry and capital would find profitable employment 
if, instead of importing £50,000,000 worth of food 
annually, we produced it at home. 

An improved agricultural education would do much to 
remove prejudice and promote ])rogress, but so long as 
education has to depend upon voluntary contributions its 
progress must be slow and its use partial. One might as 
well hope to keep our roads in order by the voluntary 
principle as to expect, that by trusting simply to bene- 
volent sentiments, a sufficient sum would be raised for 
educational purposes. Education should be free to the 
labourer who has 14s. a week and a family of five or six 
children under ten years of age. In the United States of 
America, with its 120,000 free schools and colleges, the 
Government and people have always cordially concurred 
in ample endowment by grants of land and willing taxation ; 
so that every one can be educated free of cost, and, in fact, 
every one is educated. Hence the quick intelligence and 
rapid advance of that industrious, enterprising, and power- 
^a^ people. I believe English is the oii\y \aTigvx«i^'a t«wi^\vt iiL 
^beir schools, wi»atever may be t\ie langas^^'a ol >iNi«« 
'ounigrants. 



PBEFACE. YU 

Improved agriculture means increased employment for 
our people, and an enlarged use of British capital and 
British manufiEustures. 

Acting on this conviction, I have for twenty-five years 
agitated in ^sivour of a more rapid agricultural progress, 
and I shall continue so to do as long as our forty-five 
millions of acres only yield, in food for man and beast, 
the paltry sum of £3. 5s. per acre. That amount might 
be more than doubled. I am not so Utopian as to expect 
a sudden change in agricultural practice, but agitation 
and discussion will hasten our advance. A strong attach- 
ment to old customs is natural, and, within certain limits, 
praiseworthy. Another century will, however, find us 
in a vastly improved agricultural condition. It took 
forty years to convince some of our towns and villages 
that gas was profitable, and most of us can remember 
when great towns opposed railways as a nuisance, and 
afterwards repented at leisure. So it will be with town 
sewage; we shall, in fifty years, consider it as wasteful to 
pass sewage into our rivers as it would be to throw our 
importation of guano into the Thames. 

The schoolmaster is already abroad in agriculture. 
Improved education, the penny post, railway intercom- 
munication, and untiring steam, must soon work agricul- 
tural changes great and good for us all. 

Agricultural improvement, stimulating progress by 
example, employs labour, diminishes vagrancy and crime, 
and improves the moral, social, and physical condition of 
the people. Thus I have found it in my once notorious 
neighlDourhood, Tiptree Heath. 

While condemning our general agriculture^ I eTLC^kT^v^ 
many districtss^ where the farming ia «b CiX^^csJ^ *wi *0^^ 
country, and worthy of all praise. 
Zet V8 make up our mindB to ioWorw «»o ^oo^ 
cxsmple. 



« 



VUl PBEFACE. 

It is a mistake to suppose that the knowledge of 
fanning is easily acquired^ for even assuming that all 
necessary improvements have] been made on the farm 
and at the homestead, there is still required the know- 
ledge how to buy in the cheapest and to sell in the dearest 
market. On this depends, in a great degree, the profit 
of farming. Selling 5 per cent, too cheap and buying 
5 per cent, too dear would seriously affect my farm 
profits. 

So, also, as regards the supervision and direction of 
labour, and especially the proper management of live 
stock. 

I hold it as an unquestionable axiom that no operation 
or change in agriculture can be considered as a success 
unless it produces, directly or indirectly, a profit. That 
is the true test of its propriety. 

Passing from Basingstoke to London recently, I said 
to myself, can this be a part of rich and enterprising 
Britain, wanting only in home-grown food 1 To permit 
such vasb and savage wastes to remain in primitive 
barrenness, when a touch of the ODgineer's wand in the 
shape of drainage and town sewage would at once convert 
them into healthful and fertile plains, must shock every 
commercial mind, especially when we consider that there 
are many millions of acres of such wastes in the United 
Kingdom waiting to afford employment and food for man 
and profit for capital. 

Such suicidal neglect is a disgrace to this proud and 

rich nation, and I will never cease agitating for the 

removal of so foul a blot on our national commerciality, 

for the production of food is a business, or should be one, 

and not a mere operation of Nature. 

/> A. farmer should never forget ibat he is one in the 

competitive race for profit — tliat Vie \^«Lft isioX. isvA^ Vq 



PREFACtl i X 

compete with the farmers of every foreign nation^ but 
that each British farmer is also his competitor. 

He must suffer and perhaps succumb to his fellow 
farmers who, by improved means, produce more abun- 
dantly and more cheaply than he does. 

Examining my farm to-day, the crops stand out (even 
in this their early growth) in bold relief, as compared 
with those on undrained and half-manured soils of a 
similar character. Their appearance and that of the 
live stock point to a certain profit irrespective of price. 
The two pecks, also the one peck, of wheat per acre give 
promise of an abundant crop. 

JOHN JOSEPH MECHI. 



TiPTRBE Hall, Kklvedon, Essex, 
April 12th, 1869. 



CONTENTS. 



■•^•* 



On the Exhaustion of the Soil and the Renewal of its Fertility 

llie nndeyeloped Power of British Agriculture 

Tiptree Hall Farm Accounts, including the Balance Sheets 

of 1865, 1866, 1867, 1868 

Bemarks on the Balance Sheet of 1867 

Bemarks on the Balance Sheet of 1868 

Mr. Mechi 

Slate Water Tanks 

The Slug Pest 

Letter to the Times on Thin Sowing . . 

The proper Quantity of Seed, and why Land can never be too 

rich for Wheat . . . • . . 
Practical Observations on Thin Sowing 
The happy Medium in Sowing^. . 
The Causes and Consequences of Laid Crops . . 

The Peck of Wheat Produce 

Thin Sowing, have you tried it ? 

Thin Sowing 

Mr. J. P. Duff's Letter on Thin Seeding 

Small Farmers have no Chance now . . 

London Horses . . • • 

The Sheepfold v. Farm Yard Manure . . 

Wire-worm, Duck, and Weeds . . 

Slug and Wire-worm 

Bucks after a Shower . . 

Do Farm Poultry pay ? 

Within 30 feet of the Poultry House . . 
Do Poultry pay ?. . 

XK^y\|J^O •• •• •• •• •• •• 

Advertising 

My Steam-Engine 

The Willing Agricultural Slave 

The Use and Abuse of Green Food and "Roola 

JAeehi's Live Stock A ccoun t for 1868 , , 



78, 



PAOK 
1 

20 

41 
46 
48 
49 
54 
54 
55 

57 
58 
60 
62 
63 
64 
67 
68 
69 
70 
71 
72 
73 
74 
76 
78 
79 
79 
80 
80 



XU CONTENTS. 

Tiptree Hall Live-Stock Balance-sheet, 1867 . . . . . . 87 

Stock Feeding : Ventilation . . . . . . . . . . 89 

Chaff-cutting .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 92 

Lean Stock, Lean Crops ; Fat Stock, Fat Crops . . . . 92 

Stock Feeding and Meat Making, No. 1 . . . . . . 93 

Stock Feeding and Meat Making, No. 2 . . . . . . 96 

Hard Cake : Stock Feeding 99 

Our Meat Consumption and our Power of Increasing Supplies 1 00 

Italian Rye-Grass sewaged .. .. .. .. ..103 

Town Sewage .. .. ., .. .. .. .. 103 

Mr. Mechi's Farming not a Private Affair . . . . . . 106 

Burned Clay Ashes . . . . . . . . . . . . 106 

A Suggestive Walk 106 

Early Working of Land . . . . . . . . . . . . lOS 

Paper Pipes . .' . . . . . . . . . . . . 108 

Asphalted Floors .. . . . . . . . . . . . . 10£ 

Wood's Mowing Machine . . . . . . • • . . HC 

Furrows and Water Furrows .. .. .. .. ..Hi 

The Tiptree Balance-sheet is not a Shadowy Matter of 

Imagination . . . . . . . . . • • • . . 11^ 

The Critical or Finishing-up Time . . . . . . . . 112 

Dressing and Blowing Machines . . . . . . . . 112 

Grass or Arable ? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115 

The Agricultural Labourer . . . . . . . . . . 114 

The Agricultural Labourer (Letter to the THmei) . . . . IK 

Agricultural Hints for Hot Weather Hi 

Direction Posts .* .. .. .. .. .. .. Hi 

A Lawful and Certain Cure for the Rabbit Complaint . . Hi 

Plenty of Money, but we will not Use It . . . . . . 12( 

The Importance of Comparative Experiments . . . . 12( 

Look to your Drains and Water Courses . . . . • . 12] 

My Preparation for a Crop of Mangel Wur el . . , . 12' 

My Wheat Crop of 1868 12^ 

Drilling or Dibbling Beans . . . . . . . . . . 12£ 

The Royal Agricultural Benevolent Institution . . . . 12( 

Fluctuation in the Price of Com . . . . . . . . 12i 

Congress on the Sewage of Towns . • 13( 

Deep and Shallow Drainage .. 121^ ISi 



\ 



PEOFITABLE FAEMING. 



ON THE EXHAUSTION OP THE SOIL, AND THE 
RENEWAL OP ITS PEBTILITY. 



ERRATA. 



Page 126, line 7, for " The present recipients, March, 

1864," read "March, 1869.'* 
Page 126, line 13, for « We shaU elect on 9th of June, 
, 1869," r^afi?«16th June, 1869." 



'--~~ ~ — ^ — 
By your invitation to me to come nere ui-uaj ^ v.^« 

granted that, as agriculturists, you are dissatisfied 

things as they are, and are resolved upon further pi 

I have great faith in your determination in this res^ 

I cannot forget the very recent beginning of your now , 

Birmingham Show, and how rapid and successful has 

its development. This alone convinces me that there 

be among you some bright agricultural spirits. I rei 

dining at its inaugural meeting and subscribing to its 

Bat while Tour busy Birmi£gham hive canrapplr 1 

and the world abundantly wi& its wares, you ml to 

l^he food requirements of your neighbourhood. Why 

that we cannot produce our own food in sufficient qi 

I have proved by my own farm, and by my uncont 

statements, that we can do more than this, by the 

ment of greater intelligence and cap\l8\. dx^Xi 

must add adence to art, and learn, to be^e^e Sxi 

our proftable helpmate. That has been ior V^erci^' 

B 



2 PBOFITABLB FABlilKG. 

years the opinion of the Eoyal Agricultural Society of 
England ; for when I opened its annual volume I saw on the 
title-page " Practice with Science," and I accepted the 
motto in its full significance, because I saw on its Council your 
talented countryman — the author of " Talpa " — and others 
who I knew could fully appreciate the meaning of that 
motto. 

But is that title recognised and acted upon by the bulk of 
British agriculturists P I feel humiliated in being obliged to 
say, decidedly not. What does Baron Liebig say of this in 
the preface to his last great work, " The Natural Laws of 
Husbandry," published in 1863 P "In the sixteen years 
which have intervened between this work and the sixth 
edition of my 'Chemistry applied to Agriculture and 
Physiology,* I have had sufficient opportunity to become 
acquainted with all the obstacles which are opposed to the 
introduction of scientific teaching into the domain of prac- 
tical agriculture. Among the chief of these may be reckoned 
the complete separation which has always existed between 
seience and practice." 

What do I often read in the British farmers* own papers,^ 
and what do I too frequently hear from farmers themselves P 
— " None of your theory and book-farming for me : I am a 
practical man." But I am happy to be able to admit that 
the last twenty years have made some considerable inroad 
upon this feeling, and that there is growing, especially 
among the rising and better educated generation, a gradual 
but still too limited tendency to believe that science may 
hereafter be found to lend useful aid in the cheaper and 
more abundant production of food for the people. 

Let me say for myself that I am a book-farmer ; that for 
more than a quarter of a century I have practised by the 
light of science ; that I have read and studied the communi- 
cations of eminent chemists and agriculturists who have 
thought it no disgrace to put into print their discoveries 
and experience. What benefits have not such men con-, 
ferred I Long after they shall have passed away, their know- 
ledge will remain to enlighten and advantage their fellow 
creatures. I am a firm believer in the theories and principles 
of that great man, Baron Liebig. 

But can we wonder that the agricultural mind has been so 

cramped and narrowed, when we reflect that it was only the 

other day, in the history of our nation, when we had no 

loads, or aneh had ones as to be hardly available, so that the 

V^ouUurist waa, as it were, locked up *m \i\A o^m ^^vcv^ 



BXHAUSTIOK OF THB SOIL. 3 

without educatioDal resources or means of intercommunica- 
tion, and therefore, as a nataral consequence, largely im- 
pressed with the self-sufficiency of isolation? out the 
schoolmaster is abroad now : the steam kettle has set erery- 
thing boiling, and we are preparing to advance at steam 
pace. The mind and body are equally, and, consequently, 
in rapid movement ; and, if I could come again in 1968 with 
some of my kind, hospitable, and charitable farming friends, 
and then ** take stock " of British agriculture, our astonish- 
ment would be so great that we should hardly.believe we were 
in the good old England* of the present century. We are 
all slaves to circumstances, and if I find fault, it is rather 
with British agriculture than with the British farmer or 
landowner. Begging pardon for this introductory digression 
I proceed to the subject of my paper. 

SZHAUSTIOK. 

There is a natural tendency in man to exhaust the soil of 
its very small percentage of food for plants. This desire is 
too obvious to be denied, and it has caused the stringent 
restrictions in leases forbidding the sale of hay, straw, and 
green crops. Man has to be protected against himself, for 
he is his own greatest enemy, when he proceeds upon a 
system of exhaustion without restoration, thus proaucing 
minimum instead of maximum crops. This spirit of spolia- 
tion arises from a want of knowledge and a mistaken belief, 
or hope, that there is in the soil an inexhaustible store of 
plant food. In our Colonies and in the United States of 
America (whose Government has still 1,500,000,000 acres 
of uncropped land to dispose of, without any restrictions as 
to cropping) the first settler finds a soil stored with an ample 
supply of plant food, which he believes will last for ever : so 
he goes on cropping and selling everything off his land, 
making little or no manure, which is either thrown into a 
river or left imused, and when a gradual but certain exhaus- 
tion of the plant food in the soil has proved to him that his 
crops are no longer remunerative, he seeks a new home in 
the unexhausteaand unsettled far-west, taking his chance of 
the fever or ague generated by rich but undrained and un- 
cultivated swamps, or lands reeking with decomposing veget- 
able matter. Good farmers in Britain can hardly realize the 
fact that the extensive and once fertile ongoi'eii ^^\J(K«vs\feTi^J^ 
(^ America have been so exhausted by e\^t^ ^e^t% ol <5«^- 
aioBt cropping without manure that ioine d\a\xvc\A^'^^^^ 

B 2 



4 PBOFITABLB FABMIKa. 

grow wheat at all, while extensive tracts prodace only from 
eight to twelve bushels per acre, and often less. {See recent 
American statistics ; also Baron Liebig, " Modem Agricul- 
ture," p. 220.) 

The soil is like a school pudding, with a few plums in it, 
widely and very unequally scattered. Baron Liebig says at 
p. 143 of his " Modem Agriculture," — " Chemical analysis 
has, with its rigorous methods, proved that of thousands of 
fields there is scarcely one which contains more than 1 per 
cent, of the ash constituents of plants (clover for instance) in 
a state suitable to the wants of plants." 

Many fields contain only one-fourth to one-half per cent, 
—some even less. Liebig points out that if this plant food 
(phosphate of lime, potash, and ammonia being the principal 
elements) were intimately intermixed and condensed on each 
granule of the soil, we should get many and better crops 
from our present store, but the plant food is, usually, not m 
this desirable condition, and therefore the chemist's analyses 
of our soil give us no accurate knowledge of the quantity of 
plant food in it in an available condition. The very finely 
comminuted condition of Peruvian guano causes it to be 
very quickly used by the fibres of plants, especially when 
applied with water or washed into thes oil by rains. This 
teaches us the value of an intimate admixture and comminu- 
tion of the soil. 

WHBN IS Jl FIBLD BXHAUSTBdP 

Liebig says, " A field is not exhausted for corn, clover, 
tobacco, or turnips so long as it yields remunerative crops 
without needing the replacement of those mineral con- 
stituents which have been carried away. It is exhausted 
from the time that the hand of man is needed to restore the 
failing conditions of its fertility. In this sense, most of our 
cultivated fields are exhausted. The soil will be termed 
exhausted, in the agricultural sense, when the crops cease to 
be remunerative ; that is, do not cover the expense of rent, 
labour, interest of money, &c." (See Liebig, "Modem 
Agriculture.*') 

I wish you would read the Baron's lucid and original 

explanations of man^ things that now puzzle and perplex the 

British farmer ; for instance, why you can grow barley where 

jron could not grow peas or clover ; why Dones, superphos- 

phate of lime, nitrate of soda, and salt axe very advantageous 

ja some cases and useless in otheTa. He, sb \\i "wete, \»\l&% 



DBAIKAOS. 5 

you down into the soil and shows to you the plant food, in 
what condition it is, and how the rootlets feed on it. 

I come now to consider the means of giving or renewing 
fertility — 

DBAINAaE. 

Natural or artificial drainage is one of the most important 
bases of fertility. No one would expect a plant to thrive in 
a flower-pot if there was not a hole at tne bottom for the 
escape oi surplus water. So it is with the soil. The fact 
appears so clear and indispatable, that one would suppose it 
to be now generally admitted. Perhaps the want of means 
may prevent much draining, but I know that in my county 
there are a great many farmers, not deficient in capital, 
who do not even now believe in drainage on their strong 
loams (non-calcareous tile earths). More than twenty odd 
years ago I proved that they were mistaken. 

We must offer our tribute of thanks in this matter of 
draining to the late Mr. Smith, of Deanston ; Mr. Josiah 
Parkes ; and Mr. Bailey Denton. Foremost and earliest in 
spring draining was the late Mr. Elkington, of your county, 
who received £500 from Parliament in acknowledgment of 
the services he had rendered. I drained all my land twenty- 
four years ago, making it, as it ought to be, the first step in 
improvement. Every drain is perfect now. 

Probably if all the land requiring it were to be 
drained, the cost would amount to from £40,000,000 to 
£100,0()0,000. Our best authorities agree that it would re- 
turn 15 per cent, to pay for the 6 per cent, principal and 
interest of the operation, and it can be done now on security 
without outlay. There is so much iron in some parts of your 
county that unless the pipes be small, and the flow con- 
sequently rapid, the drains get filled with it. I remember 
it was that prevented the successful draining for the late Sir 
Bobert Peel by Mr. Smith, of Deanston. He used the old flat 
sole with a tile upon it, and consequently the flow was wide, 
thin, and slow, and the ochrey iron matter had time to settle 
and accumulate. The 1-inch pipes put in by Mr. Josiah 
Parkes caused a much more rapid flow, so that the ochrey 
matter was carried out into the open ditches. 

By very deep draining I have converted a small bog 
into a sound, dry, profltable soil. I am eotry 1q ^^^ S^ ^^- 
corded in the Society's Journal and e\%©^\ietfe "OsisX ^Ti.^^'ta.^ 
estates it has been found neceaBaxy, «iV.eT ^T«c«i«L^^>^^"^'^^. 
landowner to appoint regular inspecloxa oi XXva ^V^^i^*^^ '^^^ 



6 PSOFITABLB FABMING. 

mouths or outlets of the drains, T^hich would, but for this, 
be choked up, owing to the neglect of the tenants. This 
ought to form a stringent clause in the lease, but I rarely 
hear of its being inserted. 

I have heard that when parts of Cheshire were drained, and 
the rushes disappeared, tne farmers complained that drain- 
age had spoiled their cheese by doing away with the rushes. 
The fact is, the milk was so much improved by the new 
grasses that sprang up, that it was too fat, and the cheese 
would not "travel " safely, but broke into pieces. Some know- 
ing hand remedied this, by skimming a little of the fat or 
cream off before making the cheese. 

In Suffolk they make butter lirst, and then cheese from 
the skimmed milk. This is called " Suffolk Bang." There 
is no fear of its not travelling safely, for it has been sug- 
gested that it should be used for paving stables. It is 
sold at about S^d, per lb., and is eaten sometimes with the 
fat of salt pork, to "get it down." I could enlarge very 
much on the advantages arising from drainage, such as 
greater and earlier crops, of better quality and easier ploagh- 
ing, and increased temperature of soil and subsoil ; but most 
of you know all about it. I would not farm undrained 
heavy land if offered to me free of rent. 



TILLAGE. 

How important is that act! — after drainage and before 
manure the most important. Baron Liebig writes, at p. 108 
of his " Modern Agriculture : " — " As the smallest portions of 
(plant) food cannot of themselves leave the spot in which 
they are held firmly fixed by the soil, we can understand 
what immense mnuence must be exerted on its fertility 
by its careful mechanical division and thorough intermixture. 
This is the greatest of all the difficulties which the agricul- 
turist has to overcome." This indicates the importance of 
first-class implements in perfect condition, instead of the 
imperfect, old-fashioned, and half-worn ones which we too 
frejjuently see. 

Tillage acts in various ways (as beautifully explained by 

Liebig). If we could see the half per cent, of available 

plant-food in the soil, we should find it widely scattered, 

anequallf apportioned, and insufficiently diffused — more in 

one place, leas in another ; and as water caxiiiQ^ ti«ii«i^08e 

ii from one place to another, this muat be done Yc^3[^e\^^l 



TILULOS. 



by caltivation. One cannot sufficiently appreciate the 
advantage of keeping the surface of our hard or stiff soils 
open and friable, thus permitting the operation of those natural 
laws so lucidly explained by Liebig {** Modem Agriculture," 
p. 49). After the crop is removed the soil is usually tied 
together by root-fibres. It becomes of the highest import- 
ance that they should be well shaken out by cultivation, and 
thus easily decomposed by atmospheric action. I have 
found by practice the advantage of cross-ploughing my 
clover-lees before they are ploughed again for wheat. It 
makes a considerable difference in the crop, and gets rid of 
elug and wireworm. I know many who do this, although 
the general opinion has been for only once ploughing, but it 
is erroneous, — at all events, on such soil as mine. Try an acre 
or two, and you will soon arrive at a conclusion. Compara- 
tive trials on a moderate scale are very advantageous ; they 
remove many prejudices and increase the profits. I always 
cross-plough after beans. The good effects of tillage are well 
illustrated in a conservatory where plants or shrubs are pot- 
bound or tub-bound, and one wishes to avoid repottmg. 
The pot or tub is generally found to be filled with one solid 
mass or network of roots, so tightly packed that water 
cannot enter among them. In that case I soften the surface 
with water, divide the mass of roots by cutting them to 
pieces, and fork to the depth of from 2 to 6 inches — in 
fact, fallow as deeply as I can, getting gradutdly deeper and 
deeper. The sickly plant soon revives, and. makes new 
shoots in spite of losing one-fourth or more of its roots, 
many of which have, no doubt, been long since useless. 
While fallowing I continue watering from time to time witli 
Peruvian guano and water (not too strong, about one-tenth 
of an ounce to the gallon). The result is a vigorously 
growing plant, where once it was pale, sickly, — in fact, 
almost dying. I have many instances in my conservatory 
of the success of such fallowing, both with flowers and large 
camellias, &c. 

Before leaving tillage, let us recognize those two great 
tillage lights — Jethro Tull, and the lamented Bev. Samuel 
Smith, of Lois Weedon. 

Let us congratulate ourselves on the application of mighty 
and untiring steam to the cultivation of the soil. It may, 
however, be well to remember that, unlike the horses it haa 
anperseded, it makes no manure. 



8 PBOFITABLB FASMING. 



WHY WB SHOULD MIX THB UNDBB SOIL WITH THB 

TOP SOIL. 

Chemical analysis has shown that the few inches of top or 
otdtivated soil contain most of the money in our agricultural 
purse, each inch from the top containing less plant food than 
the one above it. This is because the surface soil has the 
power of arresting and fixing a large quantity of plant food, 
especially ammonia (some of which it gets from the atmo* 
sphere), phosphate of lime, and potash. The first inch (which, 
by-the-by, is 100 tons per acre of earth) gets the best chance 
01 appropriation, and then come the next and lower ones ; 
and as plants multiply their side fibres near the surface, we 
may comprehend why surface manuring is often found so 
beneficial, — at least, I have so found it. 

I^ow, as the first few inches of top soil would take much 
more plant food than we ever give them, we can readily imagine 
that the poor subsoil comes badly ofi*; in fact, we see by its 
appearance that, although so close to the top soil, it is cold, 
dense, pale, and unaltered, and altogether different from 
the friable and manured surface soil. Can we wonder, then, 
that the plants look well while in their early growth-— rejoice 
in the good things of the top soil P But when their mam or 
tap root at the later stage of its growth descends into the 
cold empty subsoil, ought we to be surprised at the leaves 
looking bilious and queer? "Going to HaJsted Fair" is 
the saying in Essex, because the fair takes place early in 
May ; and they also saj sarcastically that such plants forget 
to return. Bj following the first plough with another 
(without the breast) drawn by four strong horses, we break 
up the subsoil, and intermix it with the upper soil ; by which 
means it participates with the surface soil in the manure 
applied. It does not answer to bury the top soil and over- 
lay it with the under soil. With certain sous, like mine, it 
would injure the crops for years. 

The improper physical condition of soil impedes the work- 
ing of plant roots and fibres. The dense, unmoved, un- 
manured, and unaerated condition of the subsoil acts 
injuriously on those plants, such as clovers, turnips, and 
otner deep-rooted plants, which depend upon the subsoil for 
their summer food. Hence the "going ofi*" of our corn 
eropa in Ma^ and June, just when, tbey require the largest 
amoant of food : hence the dying o£ cWex Va >Jcl^ «^Yvxi^. 



H0BI170. 9 

Its roots get starved when thej reach the empty, uDmanored, 
imaired, and unwholesome subsoil. Clovers do not fail in the 
rich snbsoils of eardens. 

Whenever I have thrown back the top soil and worked 
manure into the subsoil, I have been amply compensated. 
The field feels it for years. Both top and under soil should, 
if possible, be manured, for the roots of most of our crops 
descend several feet in drained soil. I know the case of a 
parsnip descending 13 feet 6 inches in a loose soil. It is 
because the subsou has so little plant food in it, that our 
deep-rooted crops can only be taken at long intervals. We 
cannot, to any great extent, manure the subsoil through the 
top soil ; therefore they ought to be intermixed. 

jBefore I leave the question of tillage, permit me to say 
that I do not agree with those who condemn Essex heavy- 
land farmers for frequently disturbing their land by cultiva- 
tion. I am convinced practically, and especially by the 
scientific reasons jgiven bv Liebig, that the frequent separa- 
tion and intermixing of the granules of the soil during 
suitable weather is beneficial, chemically and physically — 
assuming, of course, that the land is drained, naturally or 
artificiafly. 

HOBING. 

Keeping the crops free of weeds is, I know practically, one 
of the best and cheapest methods of enlargmg our crops. 
The last saving a farmer should resort to is that of hand or 
horse hoeing. The neglect in this matter is painfully obvious^ 
and robs the country of millions annually. Do not tell me of 
sowing thick to smother the weeds. Every half-crown paid 
for hoeing does, I know, bring back 7«. Qd. The cultivation 
is worth the money, irrespective of weeds. I always 
horse-hoe my wheats, beans, and peas once or twice with 
Gkurett's horse-hoe (at about Is. per acre), and hand<hoe 
twice or even three times, at a cost of about 7s. 6d, to lOs. 
for the hand-hoeing. Women afterwards hand-pick any 
weeds that have escaped the hoes. We know by the leaves 
of our fiowers when there is anything wrong below ; so it is 
with our field crops, and as 1 came here by rail certain 
bilious-looking crops indicated an uncomfortable state of 
their roots, owing to want of drainage or food in the subsoil, 
or in consequence of weedy competition. 



10 PSOFITABLB FABICING. 



BESTOSATION AND BEFLBNISHMBNT — ^TOWK SBWAGE. 

If selling off the crops from the farm causes exhaustion, 
bringing them (or their elements) back again, is the true and 
obvious way of restoring fertility. The difficulty of doing 
this by town sewage is by no means great, as I know by 
twenty years of practical experience, but I calculate that it 
will still be many years before landlords and tenants estimate 
its true value, ana anxiously put forward their claims for 
those precious streams of the life-blood of the nation that 
would enrich their fields and increase their gains. Our 
foreign importation of eatables and drinkables is over 
£70,000,000 sterling : much of this, as well as of our own 
produce, goes down the sewers. If all were applied to our 
soil it would greatly increase its fertility. 

Those who desire to know the effect of town sewage on 
every crop should read Mr. John C. Morton's recently pub- 
lished report of his experience at the Lodge Farm, Barking, 
with 300,000 tons of London sewage (published in a 2s. 
pamphlet, by Wame & Co., Bedford Eow, London). If 
these facts do not open the eyes of landlords and tenants to 
the advantage of using and paying for town sewage, my 
opinion of the English character must be a wrong one. It is 
a disgrace to our intelligence that the use of sewage should 
be forced upon us mainly by sanitary rather than agricul- 
tural considerations. 

I must congratulate your county that the town of Leam- 
ington should have assembled a Sewage Congress^ due, 
mainly, to the indefatigable and praiseworthy -exertions of 
one individual. I am glad to find that Birmingham is at 
length taking steps to utilise its sewage. This is also being 
done by many lunatic asylums, unions, prisons, reformatories, 
and public charities. It does seem like a national absurdity 
to pay millions for birds' dung from Peru, and yet waste our 
own at home. 

But let us deal with the time and circumstances present. 
Let us admit that we waste our sewage, and that we are not 
yet sufficiently educated (agriculturaUy) to comprehend the 
physical and chemical conditions of our soil and its rec^uire- 
ments. Let us confess that we do not believe enough in the 
agricultural chemist. I am now going to tell you of what 
I call, — 



FUfiCHASBD POOD V, ABTIFICIAL MAKUBB. 11 



A OOLDBK MAXIH FOB FSBTILIZINO OUB BXHAUSTBD SOILS. 

Let jonr live stock consume, in proportion to each acre of 
your land, a large quantity of cattle food that was not pro- 
duced on your own farm. Make, as it were, a farmyard or 
foldyard of your land, taking care that every particle of the 
manure, solid or liquid, shall go on to or into the soil. 

It is of little use to raise food on one side of the farm to 
be consumed on the other. That adds no mineral elements 
to the soil : it is like " robbing Peter to pay Paul," or taking 
money out of the right-hand pocket to put in the left-hand 
one — the stock of money is not increased. All our most 
successful farmers use plenty of cake that was not produced 
on their own farms, but is the produce of foreign countries. 
Import cattle food instead of man's food. I know some 
first-rate farmers who invariably consume £3 worth of cake 
per acre per annum over the whole farm. Such people have 
always plenty of com to sell. These remarks apply equally 
to grass lands. Take foul and exhausted grass land, fold it 
closely with fattening sheep (not store animals), consuming 
plenty of cake, beans, malt combs, bran, roots, and hay, 
and its poverty will suddenly disappear. Half the kingdom 
is in grass land, and most of it is robbed and starved. That 
is a great arithmetical mistake — I mean subtraction instead 
of addition. I give this golden maxim as a practical farmer 
of twenty -five vears, but if it is disbelieved or doubted, try 
an acre on each field. On this acre consume £6 worth of 
produce ^cake preferred) that did not grow on your farm, 
and then Keep an account of its produce for the next four 
years, and it will effect a most satisfactory change both in 
your mind and pocket. 

Remember, that when by draining and high farming you 
haTe destroyed the sour worthless grasses, you must re-sow 
with good grasses and clovers adapted to the altered and 
improved condition of your soil. We are far too sparing as 
to sowing new grass seeds and clovers on our pastures from 
time to time. 



PUfiCHASED FOOD versUS ABTIFICIAL MAHUBE. 

Having for twenty years used from £^00 \.o £.\Ji^ ^^-^J^ 

of purchased food, as well as each year %OTXiQ ^gsiwio, ^.^A. 

am enabled to give you a practical opimou. m l«i.^ava o\ ^''ost- 



12 PfiOFITABLB PABMINO. 

chased food ; and we have also in its favour Liebi^, Way, 
Yoelcker, and Lawes, so that we must give a decided verdict 
against artificial manures. Except on the score of want of 
capital, or for its portability, it is decidedly disadvantageous 
as compared with the sheep-fold or under-cover-made manure, 
all of the animals of course being highly fed on a variety of 
rich food. 

With poor lean-stock-made manure, guano and artificials 
show to greater advantage, and they are always useful as 
auxiliaries when we are short of the best cattle manure, 
which we rarely have in sufficient quantity. 

In certain exceptional cases, such as Cheshire, where the 
one element wanting was bone earth, superphosphate of 
lime or bones have been found of immense advantage. 

Artificial manures and even guano are deficient in some 
of the necessary plant food : therefore it has been found, on 
some light lands particularly, that the land gets tired of 
guano, and that it nas had an exhausting effect. Guano is 
certainly nearly fifty per cent, too dear in comparison with 
the best shed manure, and its price regulates that of other 
artificials. The building up of a plant is like the building 
up of a house — we must first know what materials are re- 
quired, and then take care that they are all provided in a 
suitable condition and proper proportion. The want of any 
one of them would renoer all tne rest useless, although they 
were present in superabundance. Given, in the case of 
house-Duilding, slates, bricks, lime, sand, boards, nails, and 
labour, still they would all be useless by the omission of 
water, or any one of the other materials. 

This is the great plant lesson enforced and explained by 
that great philosopher Baron Liebig, whose works will, in 
1968, be found in the library of every intelligent farmer. 

A ton of Peruvian guano costs £13, and taking this as a 
standard, Mr. Lawes has given in the following table the 
value of the manure produced from the consumption of a 
ton of various kinds of food. This may be said to settle the 
question against artificials ; but then fanners must treat 
tneir manure as they do their guano-— keep it free from rain- 
water. 1^0 farmer would think of scattering his guano over 
his farmyard and allow the rains to wash much of it away ; 
but it is equally wrong so to treat his home-made guano. 
He should always leave half an acre unmanured, or try arti- 
ficial manures on a small space, so as to form a correct com- 
parative opinion as to their value. 
TIus 18 too seldom done. We ougVil a\ao moT€> fe©QjQL«iiV\i 



VALUB OF MAirUBB. 



13 



o submit oar cake and artificials to the agricoltural chemiat, 
irbose large experience would, for a yer^ moderate consider- 
itiouy spare an immense amount of yictmiising. This is one 
rery obvious way in which science will benefit agriculture. 



Mr. Lawes's Table, showing the estimated Valae of the Manure obtained 
from the Consumption of 1 Ton of difTerent Articles of Food, each 
supposed to be of good quality of its kind :^ 









Estimated 




Description of Food. 


Present Market 
Price (about). 


Money Value of 
Manure from 
1 ton of each 
kind of food. 


1 


Decorticated cotton-seed cake. . 


affll 10 


je6 10 


8 


Not decorticated .. 


7 


• • 


3 


Rape cake 


7 


4 18 


4 


Linseed cake . . 


11 


4 12 


5 


Malt dust 


6 


4 5 


6 


Bran.. .. .. .« 


5 10 


• • 


7 


Lentils 


• • 


3 17 


8 


Linseed 


• • 


3 13 


9 


Tares 


• • 


3 13 6 


10 


Beans 


n 


3 13 6 


11 


Peas.. 


11 


3 2 6 


IS 


Locust beans. . 


• • 


1 3 6 


13 


Oats.. 


9 10 


1 14 6 


14 


Wheat 


17 10 


1 13 


1ft 


Indian com . . 


9 


1 11 6 


Id 


Malt 


• • 


1 11 6 


17 


Barley 


11 


1 9 6 


18 


Clover hay .. 


4 10 


2 5 


19 


Meadow hay.. .. 


3 5 


I 10 


20 


Oat straw 


> • • 


13 6 


21 


Wheat straw . . 


2 


12 6 


22 


Barley straw . . 


1 10 


10 6 


23 


Potatoes 


6 


7 


24 


Mangels 


1 


5 


25 


Swedish turnips 


1 


4 3 


26 


Common tnmipa 


12 


4 


27 


Carrots 


1 10 


4 


28 


Fresh-cut meadow-grass 


• . * 


• • 


29 


Ditto Italian rye- grass 


17 


• • 



One ton of meat (best quality) sells for 7\d. per lb., or 5«. 
per stone of 8 lb. — say that it takes 8 lb. of com or cake to 
make 1 lb. of meat. 



1 ton of meat . . . . . . , . 

8 tons of rape-cake, at 6/. io«. 

Cost of carting, breaking, feeding out, 6«. per ton 



Value ot nuokvare 



. . . • 

4^52 
2 8 



4^70 



54 8 



ii^Wtk ^ 



14 FBOFITABLB FARMINa. 

So here we get £54. 16s. worth of guano for nothing. 
Verdict for the plaintiff. 

Take linseed-cake, 8 tons, at IW. 
Feeding out, &c. 

1 ton of meat. . .« .. .. .. .. 






jess 








2 


8 





4^90 


8 





70 





H) 


.1^20 


8 





^36 16 





20 


8 





16 


8 





jf80 








4 








^6*84 








70 








^14 








4^29 


8 





14 









Value of manure, at 4/. 12«. per ton 
Loss on feeding 

Value of manure 

Take 8 tons of beans, at lOl. per ton 
Ghinding and feeding out 

1 ton of meat .. ... 



Value of manure from 8 tons of beans, at 3^. 13«. 6i. 

J^cSS •• •• •• •• •• •• 

Value of manure .. •• .. .. .. 4^15 3 o 

All these calculations are founded on the estimate that it 
takes 8 lb. of cake or beans to make 1 lb. net of meat. 
Some people say 7 lb. will do it. Lawes says 5 lb. to 1 lb. 
live weight. My live stock account of last year (which you 
have no doubt seen) shows that my animals consumed — 

Of purchased cake, and linseed 

Com 0;>rincipally beans and some oats) 

Malt combs . . . . . . . . 

^sran •• •• •. .. 

Condimental food .. 

.1^558 

Also the produce of 25^ acres of ffrass and green and root 
crops. After charging to the stock all the purchased food, 
the cost of producing the green and root crops, and all ex- 
penses of attendance (horse and manual labour), the balance 
or charge against the stock, or rather for the manure, was 
£158. 4«. 9d, In 1865 and 1866 the balance was still more 
favourable, because meat was dearer and feeding stuffs 
cheaper than in 1867. 

The manure from the purchased food alone is worth 

(according to Mr. Lawes's Table) about £240, besides the 

ra/ae of all the manure arising from the consumption of 

-S^ acres of liome-grown green and too\i cto^^, wii. ^.W^'a 



4^228 








236 








17 








42 








35 









CHALK, LIMX, AHD AXIIOVIA. 15 

qaantity of straw used as food and as bedding. Altogether, 
we can fairly take the manurial value of the whole as £340 
against a loss of £15S. 4«. 9d, in feeding. I know also from 
experience that the farm manure greatly exceeds in effect 
the artificial manures. But you must not expect such 
&Yoarable results as I get, unless you adopt my plan of 
economizing food by cotominution and variety, by giving it 
warm in winter, by under-cover feeding of cattle, and fold- 
ing of sheep in summer ; and, not least, keeping the manure 
under cover, and doing all the laborious portion by steam- 
power, which I have now used for over twenty years. 

My cattle never get more than half a bushel (30 lb.) of 
roots daily, pulped and mixed with much straw chaff, 12 lb. 
of bean-meal and cake, 1 lb. each of bran and malt combs. 

Lib. of crushed linseed, and 1 lb. of condimental food. 
K>t8 and green food should only be used as salad with 
richer and &er food. They are expensive to grow, and the 
cost of them in handling and feeding out is great. A ton of 
cake worth £10 will only cost half as much to prepare and 
give to the stock as a ton of bulky and watery roots worth 
10s. to 12s. When given in the usual large quantities, they 
are rather physic than food, taxing unduly the urinary 
organs, and keeping the bowels too relaxed, for they contain 
88 to 90 per cent, of water ; but we are not here to-day to 
diacuss the feeding question. 

Cheese-making and milk-selling are sad exhausters of the 
plant food in the soil, unless the cows are largeljr supplied 
with supplementary food ; and the system of raising and 
selling half-starved lean stock starves tiie land, the landlord, 
and the farmer, except on very rich soils. As a rule, I say, 
tell me how much fat meat you make per acre, and I will 
tell you how much com you grow; for com is dependent on 
&t-meat manure. 

OHALE, LIMS, UVD AMMONIA. 

Lime is a good servant, but a bad master; lime (li^^ 
earth-burning) tends to render available the plant food in 
the soU which was before unavailable, owing to its improper 
physical or chemical condition. Lime adds little manure to 
the soil ; it onlv cooks or prepares what there is in the soil, 
and gets it ready for the plant. The continuous use of lime, 
or rather its excessive use, without ample manuring) ha& ul 
too many inatanoeB impoverished tide V&iidL, >i)tv^ Xati^t^) %sA 
He landlord. 



16 PBOFITABLS FABMINO. 

It appears to me that one of the most important uses of 
chalk and lime is to neutralize or destroy the vegetable acids 
in the soil. In Essex, on our stiff non-calcareous clays, we 
all know that where a wood or fence has been remoyed from 
our heavy soil, no satisfactory crop can be got until the land 
is chalked ; but I never heard any explanation of this except 
that the earth was sweetened. No doubt the land was sour, 
or rather the vegetable excretions — ^roots — ^were acid. Land 
that grows sorrel will no longer grow it after chalking. To 
test the action of chalk, I scraped some into powder, and 
placed in a wineglass as much as would one-iourth fill it. 
On pouring on to it some vinegar, a violent ebullition took 
place, boiling over the mouth of the glass. No such effect 
could be again produced with the same chalk and vinegar. 

Both alkali and acid were neutralized. The farmers say it 
is of no use chalking a second time — at least for fourteen 
years. This appears to explain why it is so. I have often 
been found fault with for not chalking or liming sufficiently ; 
but I do not find the need of it, because the quantity of 
ammonia produced by my stock feeding undei^ cover effected, 
as shown by the crop, the same purpose as the chalk. Con- 
vinced of this, I asked the opinion of an eminent chemist, 
and he stated that ammonia was an alkali five times more 
powerful than chalk. Possibly it may be that the excess of 
ammonia in Peruvian guano acts favourably in cold, sour 
soils, by neutralizing or destroying acidity rather than as 
food for plants. I presume that the ammonia which results 
from the folding of sheep fed on rich nitrogenous food, such 
as cake, beans, &c., which enrich poor heavy land pastures, 
neutralizes the acids produced from the immense network of 
dead grass fibres in the soil. 

Baron Liebig says that irrigating grass-lands produces the 
same effects as careful ploughing. It is easy, then, to under- 
stand the favourable enects of town sewage on grass lands, 
especially Italian rye-grass, for such sewage superabounds in 
ammonia, which is considerably in excess of proportion to 
the other ingredients of plant food contained in the sewage. 

SALT. 

I consider salt a very important ingredient. Although 

scarcely a manure in itself (except for saline plants, such as 

mangel wurzel), it confers many benefits by dissolving and 

distribnting the phosphates that ace already in the soil. It 

attraotg ana retains moisture in light BO\\a» osi^ oii «<ql<^ vs^ 



BUBNBD EABTH. 17 

is of yerj great yalae as a top-dressing, by preventing the 
ravages of wire worm. I always sow six imperial bushels 
per acre on my light-land wheat and barley before the wire- 
worm acts— that is, before the plant appears above ground. 
I know some persons who use as much as 5 cwt. per acre. I 
sow about 1^ cwt. per acre on heavy land (drained) mixed 
with ^ano for wheat and oats. The ashes of mangel wurzel 
contain much salt. An excess of salt renders the land barren 
for a time. 

BUBNED BABTH. 

Our stiff plastic non-calcareous clay, almost free from 
vegetable matter, becomes, when burned, real brick-dust, 
and yet it is a most valuable fertilizer. Twenty years ago I 
burned an immense quantity, with great advantage. Science 
teaches us the why and the wherefore. It tells us that 
the hitherto unavailable elements of plant food locked up in 
our stiff clays become liberated by the action of fire, and are 
rendered available for the feeding of our crops. But there is 
another and most important advantage. The physical con- 
dition of the soil is entirely changed by burning. The bird- 
lime, or putty-like soil, previously almost impervious to air 
or water, becomes loose and friable, permitting the free 
circulation of plant roots, and making the land work so 
much easier, and leave the plough breastTeadily. 

There is no safer investment on stiff clays than burning 
the nasty sticking, dense, unmanured subsoil ; where 
eoal is dear it must be dried by the atmosphere before 
burning, and is of course summer work. One old stump of 
a pollard will start and burn 14D cubic yards. The most 
notable and successful instance of earth-burning on a large 
scale is that of Mr. Eandall, near Evesham. He has con- 
tinned burning, winter and summer, for twenty years. Coal- 
dust is there very cheap, and one ton will burn twenty tons 
of earth. You have no doubt observed the immense mounds 
of earth burned for ballast or road basis for railways, or 
where new streets are being made. Burned clay or brick- 
dust is a capital manure for roots, owing to the alkalies in 
the soil being liberated by burning, especially so after being 
used as a bed for animals. It is a first-rate dry bed for 
sheep — a barrowful daily to about twenty sheep. It must be 
kept dry under cover or thatch ready for use. This is Mr. 
Bandall's practice. When we have Wixied, «L%»^«x\fik«t%<»'vii^^ 
raJiue of straw for feeding purposeB, 'wo ^\k»)^. \sNxrcL ^s^^t^ 
earth a^d use more sparred noora. X "Via'V^ xsr^ «^^ Q\i\aKO^ 

o 



18 PllOFITABLS FABHINO. 

thousand miles of ffreat wide banks, miscalled fences, filled 
with worthless pollards and straggling bushes, untrimmed 
and uncared for. I would bum the lot, and then they would 
become a source of considerable fertility to the soil. Now 
thej are robbers and impoverishers, and a breeding-place for 
weeds and vermin ; in fact, aregular nuisance. We cannot 
afford to grow wood on corn-fields now. Land is too dear for 
that, and coals too cheap. We must go for our wood to the 
non-rented forests of Canada. The suggestions I have made 
necessarily lead us to consider the question of 



FABM CAPITAL. 

Perhaps one of the most useful lessons a farmer can learn 
is, " what is the most profitable amount of capital to invest 
per acre,'' for on this depends much of his success. In a 
p6or arable farm like mine, requiring much manure, I find 
£16 not enough, and I should prefer m)m £20 to £25. This, 
I know, is very much above the usual amount estimated in 
the general opinion, which is £10 per acre. Taking the 
whole country, I do not believe it is so much as £5 per acre. 
In my balance-sheet you will have seen how this £16 was 
apportioned, the most important point being live stock £6 
per acre. Is that too mucn 6n an arable farm P No. I wish 
it could be £10 per acre, as it ought to be, for the manure is 
in exact proportion to the live stock. 

In this respect no better confirmation of the soundness of 
the proposition, and no better example can be followed, than 
that of the agricultural labourer, with his one pig and his 
twenty rods of ground. That animal when fat is worth on 
an average £4 (say eight score pounds of meat at 6d. per lb.), 
so that the capital invested in fat live stock is £32 per 
acre ! ! ! and as the manure exactly follows the meat made, 
he makes probably twenty times as much manure as the 
average of farmers. This is a great lesson. Can we wonder 
tliat tne cottage garden is productive P 

I often hear labourers say, "If I don't fat a pig my 
garden becomes unproductive ! " But then, how are we to 
get the capital P Well, credit is capital, and profitable 
capital too (although it belongs to somebody else), in indus- 
trious, careful, capable hands. 

Here the labourer, again, gives evidence. He buys his 

Jean pig for £1, The miller trusts him with the three sacks 

of barlej-'ineal that fatten the pig, Mxd.\iete, «^ oti^^, \a t\i<a 



7ABH CAPITAL. 19 

£32 pNBr acre capital in lire stock. When he kills his nig he 
Bella it, pays the miller, and has got the manure for hia 
garden. 

Honest, industrious, capable farmers, having a lease, or 
an unchanging landlord, can go to the miller quite as well as 
the cottager does, and will find the rich cattle-dealer accom- 
modating " for a consideration," to which he is fairly entitled. 
The banker obliges the cattle-dealer, and uses a portion of 
his customers' deposits for that purpose. 

Have not many of our self-made men in the City of Lon- 
don and in your busy emporium (Birmingham) be^un with no 
other capital than industry, honesty, and ability? Upon 
that sound foundation other people's capital has found a safe 
and profitable resting-place ; so it is, or should be, in agricul- 
ture. Depend upon it, when agriculture is improved and so 
carried out as to become more profitable and less uncertain, 
capital will be readily found. 

But there must be ''a will" and then there will be found 
" a way." I am bound in truth to say that it is the want of 
will and belief rather than the want of means that retards 
agricultural progress. The belief in money-making rather 
ikan the desire for cheap locomotion opened our purses, and 
emptied them too, to the extent of £500,000,000 in making 
railways. 

CONCLUSION. 

I have spun "a very tough yam," but if on taking it to 
pieces you can find a few useful threads, my object will have 
been accomplished, and I shall be much gratified. But as 
words without deeds do not carry their weight, let me invite 
a deputation from your club to come and inspect my crops 
in July, just before harvest. You will then be able to judge 
practically of the results of my system. You will see 
seventy-three acres of wheat which, judging from their 
present appearance, may compete with any crops grown on 
the richest land in the kingdom, although Tiptree Heath 
land is naturally notoriously poor. You will probably pro- 
nounce them to be amply thick, although only sown with 
one bushel of seed per acre, and (although this is no part of 
our subject) you will conclude that an immense waste of 
seed occurs in this country which might be avoided by a 
better style of farming. Even the peck of wheat per acre 
may surprise you. You will also decide -^^leXJaKt ^^ ts^^t^^-^ 
Bpent ID procuring the absence of weeda i^TetKx^iet^Mvi^, 

Tou hare bad before you my ba\aiwie-^^eX»"^ V^sc^jS^oSsw- 

c 2 



20 FBOFITABLB FARMING. 

copies of my accounts), and have tkerefore the means of 
judging by an inspection of the farm whether this year, be 
the price what it may, the crops are likely to prove remu- 
nerative. Believe me when I say that my sole object in maJcing 
these remarks, and giving you this invitation is, as it always 
has been and ever will be, a sincere desire to increase and 
cheapen the food, and enlarge the sphere for employment of 
the British people, and concurrently to improve the farmers' 
and landlords' profit, and the general well-being and well- 
doing of our common country. 

This, in my opinion, is, in a national point of view, the 
most important of our duties. The stomach cannot wait. 
The food question acts for good or for evil on all other in- 
terests, which are, therefore, more or less subservient to 
and dependent upon its quantity and price — revolutionary 
and rebellious principles find little room in well-filled 
stomachs, but hunger breeds discontent and fosters crime. 
The margin for agricultural improvement is, in this country, 
immense. I have often stated, and that statement has never 
been contradicted, that with skill and capital our home-food 
supply (meat and bread) might be more than doubled. Tip- 
tree Farm is a proof of this, because its average quality is 
much below that of the kingdom, while its produce is much 
more than double that of the country at large. I am no 
participator in a fear of foreign competition. Let us, there- 
fore, be dissatisfied with things as they are ; let us apply 
our will (capital will speedily follow) to the better and 
cheaper feeding of Mr. John Bull. 



THE UNDEVELOPED POWER OF BRITISH 

AGRICULTURE. 

Read before the Central Farmers* Club, London^ 

November 2, 1868. 

If the land of Britain were owned by such noblemen and 

gentlemen as I could name, and farmed by such members of 

oar Cluh as I could designate, there would be much less 

need for my reading this paper •, bxit n^j e have to deal this 

evening with the whole area o£ t\i©T3ii\\.e^T5ATi^'SLQrBi, <5wt^- 



BBITI8H AGBICULTXJBX. 21 

taining 77,513,585 acres, the utilized portion of it, 45,491,097 
acres, being held or occupied bj no less than 1,069,462 
farmers, of which Ireland claims nearly 600,000. 

I think we shall all agree that the wealth, power, dignity, 
and happiness of this kingdom depend fully as much, or 
probably more, on the proper use of its soil as on the utiliza- 
tion of its other industrial arts, and its mines, fisheries, 
commerce, and shipping. We must admit that the stomach 
is the predominant power, demanding regular and continuous 
supplies, to procure which, at whatever cost, all other inte- 
rests must subserve or succumb. 

We have very certain proof of this, for although always 
dependent on foreigners for one-third (more or less) of our 
daily bread, an increase of that dependency, caused by a 
failure in our harvest, knocks down Consols, depreciates every 
other security, involves us in financial and commercial panics 
and embarrassments, stops progress, and throws out of em- 
ploy large masses of our industrial population. 

In fact, it comes to this, that the greater or less home pro- 
duction of our food acts barometrically for good or for evil 
on the national welfare. Admitting this to be so, it follows 
that it is our primary duty and interest to extract from the 
soil by every profitable means in our power the greatest pos- 
sible amount of human food, just as by improved, costly, and 
scientific means and machinery we are enabled to clothe our- 
selyes and other nations in cheap and plentiful clothing, or 
supply them with other requisite manufactures. My object, 
therefore, in reading this paper, is to inquire whether we 
hare developed sufficiently or perfectly our agricultural 
power, and if not why not, and how great is our opportunity 
of so doing F 

British agriculture (as regards landowners, tenants, land- 
stewards, and lawyers) is at present in a transition state. It 
may be represented, jocularly, as old Mr. John Bull, jogging 
along on the old road, looking wistfully but doubtingly at 
the new road which steam-power has made for him, but 
which is still unused except by a few daring agriculturists, 
who seem to be calling out to the old gentleman — " Come on, 
don't be afraid : see how fast, safe, and cheap we go ; this is 
the right road to profit, you will find it better and cheaper 
than the old one — come and try." But the old gentleman 
shakes his head and says, "I shall take time to consider 
of it, and make up my mind ; for "joxa ive^ ^«^^ t^* 
gmre much capital and give much moxe Vtox^^b ^^dSbs^ ""^^ 
old ones," 



22 



FBOFITABLB PASMING. 



Joking apart, I ventured to suggest this subject for dis- 
cussion by our Club, because I have an honest conviction, 
resulting from twenty-five years of practice and observa- 
tion, that our agriculture still presents a vast field for 
the profitable investment of greatly increased skill and 
capital. 

Let us take stock of our present a^icultural position, 
remembering that our acres have no children, and that our 
population has increased from ten millions to- thirty millions 
since the year 1800. 

The present food-producing power of British agriculture 
is shown in the Board of Trade returns for 1866, issued in 
1867. According to them, the whole area of the United 
Kingdom consists of 77,513,585 acres, and our population 
30,315,072 ; but only 45,491,097 acres are accounted for as 
under crops, excluding mountain and waste ; so that we have 
still a considerable portion of 32 millions of acres to operate 
upon. In Ireland idone there are 4,423,340 acres in bog and 
waste. We have in 



England 

Scotland 

Wales 

Ireland 

Isle of Man . . 

Jersey 

Guernsey, &c. 



Total area.. 



Acres. 

32,590,397 

19,fi39,377 

4,734.486 

20,322,641 

180,000 

28,717 

17,967 

77,513,685 



Occapiers. 

338,588 
78,792 
52,072 

600,000 



The cropping of the United Kingdom in the area under 
cultivation is as follows : — 



Com crops 
Root and g^een crops 
Clover and grass . . 
Bare fallow 



Permanent pasture not broken up in rotation, ex- 
<du8ive of heath or mountain land 

Total nnder cultivation 



Acres. 

11,431,440 

4,951,796 

5,679.433 

953,998 

23,016,667 

22,156,541 
..45,173,208 



In the United Kingdom we have of live stock : — cattle, 
S,TB1A7B; sheep, 33,817,951 ; pigs, 4,221,100. 
We have no estimate in EngWd oi t\iQ N«lue of our live 



PBODUOl OF THB SOIL. 23 

stock, but the returns in Ireland are more minute and ex- 
plicit. There the valuation is, per head of 

Gtttle (3,029,353) .. .. .. .. 4^6 10 

Sheep (4,822,244) ., .. .. .. ..120 

Figs (852,443) .. .. .. .. ..150 

Hones •• .. .. .. .. 800 

The live stock of Ireland, including 522,865 horses, is rained 
at £34,000,000. I hope our Board of Trade returns for 
England will some day be much more minute, and give us 
also the number of horses and estimated yalue of live stock. 
We also ou^ht to know how much of our country is occupied 
by roads, canals, railways, riyers, lakes, fences, woods, and 
towns, cities, and Tillages, &c,, that we might more accu- 
patelv estimate our undeveloped power of cultivation. It 
will DO noticed in the foregoing returns that in pluvial Ire- 
land hairy animals greatly exceed the woolly ones, while the 
latter are much in excess in dry and cereal England. Wet 
and mild climates are not so well suited to the woolly 
tribe. Cattle also greatly preponderate in English pluvial 
counties. 



HOW MUCH OF HUMAN FOOD DOES THE SOIL OF BBITAIK 
YIELD, AND WHAT IS ITS MONET VALUE SECEIVED BY 
THB BBITISH FABMEB. 

Unfortunately, our food statistics are at present so general 
and incomplete, that there are no data for an exact computa- 
tion. I will, however, endeavour to test it by a roughly- 
estimated consumption (per head of the population) of home- 
produced food and drink — ^I mean the sum that reaches the 
farmer's pocket, independently of malt-tax or spirit-tax, or 
trade and intermediate profits and charges : — 

Annual consumption per head. 



Wheat, 4 hmhels at Gs. 6d, 


• • 


^l 6 





. . 


^39,000,000 


Meat, 52 lb., at e^if. .. 


• • 


1 8 


2 


. . 


42,250,000 


Potatoes 


• • 


10 





. . 


15,000,000 


Milk, butter, cheese, eggs. 


and 










poultry . . . . 


• • 


11 





. . 


16,500,000 


Oats (as meal, &c.) 


• • 


5 





. . 


7,500,000 


Barley, hops (as beer, &c.) 


• • 


11 





. . 


16,500,000 


F^ruit and vegetables 


• • 


2 





. . 


3.000,000 




1^4 13 


2 


ieu^n'v>^t*<^^^ 



Potatoes in Ireland and oatmeal m Seo>i\»si^ wA *Qa^^ 



24 FBOFITABLB FABMING. 

Korth of England are the principal articles of food. Oat- 
meal is also consumed in Ireland. England consumes more 
wheat and meat per head than either Scotland or Ireland. 

Our population consume, in addition to the above, a large 
amount of foreign agricultural produce, probably to the 
extent of £1. 6s, per head, exclusive of tea, sugar, or coffee. 

Consumed by 30,000,000 of popula- 
tion, at 4/. 13«. 2<2. per head. . .. .. jfif 139.750,000 

Wool, bides, tallow, and offal . . . . . . 10,000,000 

Hay and com consumed by 500,000 horses (non- 

agT-icnltural), at 20/. per annum . . . . 10,000,000 

60,000 horses (non-agricultural) sold annually by 

farmers, at 25/. each .. .. .. 1,500,000 

1^161,250,000 

This would give about £3. 16s, per acre for the whole of 
the United Kingdom (returned by the Board of Trade at 
45i millions of acres under cultivation). 

There are probably a million of farm horses, consuming 
annually £20,000,000 of farm produce, for which the farmer 
gets no money payment. I therefore take no account of this, 
nor of the horses he rears for farm use. That million of 
horses probably consume the produce of 6,000,000 acres, 
landlord's measure. 

M. Lavergne, the celebrated French agricultural statis- 
tician, in his valuable book, "On the Bural Economy of 
England," published in 1855 by Blackwood, and ably trans- 
lated by a Scotch farmer, thus estimates our gross acreable 
produce : — 

England.. .. .. .. .. ^a 15 per acre. 

Lowlandsof Scotland, Ireland, and Wales.. l 17 6 „ 
Highlands of Scotland . . . . . . 8 4 „ 

His total agrees very nearly with mine. He puts it at 
£164,000,000, half animal, half vegetable 5 but his estimate 
of meat at Sd, per lb. is too high by l^d, 1 estimate three- 
fifths vegetable, two-fifths animal. I would strongly recom- 
mend a perusal of his valuable work. Although M. Lavergne 
considers France equal in soil and climate with our own, he 
estimates French produce at only one-half the acreable value 
of ours. This is somewhat to our credit by comparison. I 
roughly estimate our — 



GHAirOBS SBQUIBBD. 25 









Acres. 


Velae. 


Com crops . . 






11,431,440 


.1^83,000,000 


Potato do. 






1,155,609 


20,000.000 


Green and root do. 






3,400,500 


10,000,000 


Clover and grass. . 






5,076,4S0 


17.0«iO,000 


Bare fallow 






953,198 


■ • • • 



22,01/, 167 130,000.000 

Permanent pasture, exclusive of 

mountain and waste .. 22,156,441 50,000,000 



44,173,608 180,000,000 
Consumed by one million of farm horses, for 

which the farmer receives no monej payment 20,000,000 

jfl60,000,000 

M. Lavergne estimates the rent of our land as follows : — 

England .. .. .. .. .. 20«. per acre 

Lowlands of Scotland and Wales .. ioa. „ 

Highlands of Scotland . . .. .. ., lOd. „ 

Three-fourths of Ireland .. .. .. 13«. „ 

North-west of Ireland . . . . . . . . 5«. „ 

General average . . .. .. .. 13«. „ 

Oar Board of Trade returns take no account of mountain 
heath, or waste ; therefore prohably the average rental of the 
44^ millions of acres so returned would be 20s, per acre (see 
M*Culloch, Porter, and Spackman), and the value of the land 
£25 per acre. 

Having stated what is, I think, about our acreable agricul- 
tural production, I shall endeavour to point out presently 
what it might be if we brought to bear upon the improve- 
ment of the soil a great increase of capital and intelligence. 
But such results can only be produced gradually. I know 
many intelligent farmers who hired their farms when steam 
cultivators, steam engines, and other expensive machinery 
were not much in vogue. Such men admit candidly that they 
would, if they could, now greatly diminish their holdings, so 
that their capital would be more in proportion to modern 
agricultural requirements, especially to the keeping of more 
stock fed on imported food. Landowners, too, are gradually 
arriving at similar conclusions in regard to their estates. 
These changes and investments will necessitate a valuation 
for improvements and security of tenure by lease, and 
probably a modification and enlarged freedom of action as 
regards entailed estates. 

I am not so sanguine as to expect t\ia^ «v\.^^^%\» ^^b^^% 
as I indicate and consider necessary and '^^xo^V.'eJ^^ ^wjl \aSiBA 



26 PBOFITABLX FABIUHG. 

place, except graduallj, by the force of opinioii and discus- 
sion, and by the necessity for meeting the pressure for food 
for our rapidly increasing population. 



WHAT MIGHT THE SOIL OF BSITAXK FBODUCE P 

I have no difficulty in answering this question. The soil 
of Tiptree, poor as it is, and naturally much below the 
average of the kingdom in quality, has enlightened me on 
this matter. The twenty-five years of practical residential 
experience which I have had there has taught me that Britain 
could profitably feed all her children without foreign aid, if 
she chose to do so. This is no dream or speculation, it is a 
fact, true and indisputable ; but I do not expect any one to 
believe it, but rather the reverse. Tiptree Hall Farm is an 
instance of increased development with profit. Eent, farmer's 
capital, and employment or labour have been all doubled, 
and the produce and acreable profit proportionally increased. 
This year the produce is as follows, the farm being 170 acres, 
landlord's measure : — ^wheat, 450 qrs. j barley, 27 ; oats, 40 ; 
beans, 18 ; peas (for London) £66 net ; red clover hay and 
grass hay, 30 tons ; 6 acres of good mangel, 150 tons ; and 6 
of strong green tares, followed by cabbage ; some 20 acres of 
rape, white turnip, and cabbage. The live stock consists of 
40 bullocks and 225 sheep. 

The average produce of wheat at Tiptree is 40 bushels per 
acre ; this good year it is 48 bushels per acre. The average 
of the United Kingdom is 27^ bushels ; this good year, 

32 bushels per acre. The percentage of wheat at Tiptree is 

33 of the whole farm, of the United Kingdom only 9 per 
cent. 

At Tiptree permanent pasture is only 8 per cent.; the 
United Kingdom 48 per cent. 

The rent of Tiptree is 40*. per acre ; the rent of the 
United Kingdom 20«. per acre. 

The gross produce at Tiptree is equal to six rents per acre ; 
(£12) ; the gross produce of the United Kingdom, 3i rents 
per acre (£3 15*). 

The meat made at Tiptree is £5 per acre ; the meat made 
in the United Kingdom, £1 per acre. 

The quantity of manure made exactly follows the quantity 
^fjAeatmade; therefore Tiptree makes five times as mucn 



TIFTBBB HALL FABH BALAKCB-8HBBT. 27 

manure per acre as the United KiDgdom. Can we, then, 
wonder at its prodace being n*eater P 

The labour employed at Tiptree is 60s, per acre ; the 
labonr in the XJnitied kingdom probably only lbs. per acre. 

The tenant's capital at Tiptree is £17 per acre ; that of 
the United E!ingdom under £5. 

Com, cake, &c., consumed by live stock at Tiptree, £3 10s,; 
com, cake, &c., consumed per acre in the United Kingdom, 
13«. per acre. 

According to the Tiptree returns, our 44^ millions of 
acres would give £534,000,000; our present returns are 
£170,000,000— increase £364,000,000. 

But we need not be alarmed by this prospect of possible 
increase. There is no fear of our arriving too soon at this 
happy condition. It will take centuries to remoTe the im- 
peding causes of non-improvement, and within that period 
(assuming that we have not yet as a nation reached our zenith), 
population will have overtaken even improved production. 
Although so large my produce, how small comparatively is 
the cost of seed, horse labour, and other expenses. 

Although I have Quoted Tiptree as an instance, I could 
name many farms ana many estates equally or even better 
farmed, and where the tenant's capital is from £20 to £30 per 
acre. Norfolk and Lincolnshire nave become the butchers 
and bakers for the metropolis by their enormous purchases 
of stock food imported on the nirm and not grown there ; 
and by the great quantity of resulting manure and corn. 
Security of tenure, valuation for improvements, and a freedom 
of action, have there attracted a fixed and ample capital. 

TiPTBBB Hall Farm Balance Shbkt. 



Average Price of Wheat 
perqr. 


Net Surplus for Landlord 
and Tenant. 


1865 
1866 
1867 


40«. 2d. ,. 

46«. 6d. . . . . . . 

6u.7|rf* •* •• .. 


.. jf543 7 4 
573 11 6 
773 6 10 


Tenant's 
Capital. 


Profit on Tcnant*s Capital 
at Tiptree Farm. 


Per acre. 


J^l65 
3503 
2571 


4^238=11 percent. 
268=101 „ 
463=18 „ 


.. jfl 19 5 
1 16 7 
3 12 



The average price of wheat for the year 1868 will probably 
be above &ds. 



28 



PBOFITABLB FABMING. 



Apportionment or Farm Capital. 





1806. 


1867. 




Livestock .. 

Hones 

Tillag:es, fic. .. 

Implements and machinery . . 

Hay, corn, &c. unsold 

Tenant's capital per acre 


4^6 

1 

2 10 

2 10 

3 


je6 10 

1 
3 10 

2 10 

3 5 6 


jBli J^l6 15 6 



CAUSES OF NON-DEVBLOPMENT. 

This is a painful subject, but we must deal with it candidly 
and fearlessly. Agriculture is not yet treated on commercial 
or business principles. When it is looked upon as a business 
by our landowners, their agents, and tenants, the practice 
in letting, hiring, and holding will be more assimilated to 
the customs of our towns and cities. Landowners in the 
country seem indisposed to part with the control of their 
land for a period, while in a town they cheerfully grant a 
ninety-nine years* building lease, or a twenty-one years* 
lease of premises. Here the tenant has not only undis- 
puted possession, but, if he effects improvements, has also a 
light of selling his lease and his improvements to proper 
persons, without interference by the landlord or his agents. 
Here there is no ground game or annoying gamekeeper. 
See what consequences flow from this sense of security and 
freedom of action. Men of spirit and capital pull down old 
houses, and raise upon their ruins business or manufac- 
turing palaces. Under such circumstances our good old city 
of Lonaon is being rebuilt. Everything progresses and im- 
proves — ^property is constantly and rapidly increasing in 
value, ultimately much to the benefit of the original or 
ground landlord. All this results from security of tenure 
and ' freedom of action ; and where these principles are 
carried out in agriculture, depend upon it similar results 
will take place, — it must be so as a natural consequence ; 
and I am delighted to be able to say that I know of great 
and improving estates where the tenants are secured by 
leases, with the addition of a valuation for unexhausted im- 

jyrovements, and political freedom, and in. some cases the 

r^bt of Bporting. 



INSECUBITT OF TSMUBB. 29 

I will ^ive an instance of what is doins^ very generally in 
our good old city of London, where land has advancea in 
some cases to £2,000,000 per acre (some £60 or £70 per 
square foot). Not long ago I purchased of a friend, for a 
bank with which I was connected, an old, tumble-down 
house, not far from the Hoyal Exchange, that used to be let 
for £100 per annum. The new conditions were, a lease for 
eighty years, at a ground rent of £500 per annum — the 
tenant to build a house at a cost of £3,000. Well, we 
erected one that cost £6,000. In eighteen months it became 
necessary to close our bank (having first paid every depositor 
in full without delay). The lease was sold for £10,300, and we 
realized an increase of more than £4,000 on our expenditure. 

So it has been in many other cases, and so it would be in 
degree in agriculture, if men of capital had security of 
tenure, freedom of action, power to sell or transfer their 
leases, and thus derive the proper advantages of their im- 
provements ; we should then no longer witness that wretched 
unalterability which is too often the present characteristic 
of British agriculture — the antiquated gable-ended tenements, 
called farm-houses, with their projecting beams and ceilings 
a few inches above one's head, the old crooked Adam-and- 
Eve fences, and the antiquarianism of the whole concern, 
which indicate a primitive, unaltered, and unbusiness-like 
condition of things, unworthy of the rapidly increasing in- 
telligence, wealth, enterprise, and population of this great 
commercial, manufacturing, and bread-and-beef consuming 
country. 

I recently read a paper before the Midland Counties 
Farmers' Club at Birmingham, where I met the most 
wealthy, intelligent, and enterprising farmers of an extensive 
district. In the discussion that followed it was painful to 
me to hear from every speaker that the want of security of 
tenure and valuation for improvements sat upon them like a 
heavy cloud, and prevented them from investing increased 
capital in what they admitted to be necessary amendments. 
To my surprise, they were cramped and restricted in action 
by the knowledge that they might be turned out of their 
holdings at a six months' notice ! I could hardly believe 
that I was in the commercial atmosphere of Birmingham ! 
Would any man in Birmingham or London make an im- 
provement on his premises under such circumstances P 

It may be true, and is, in fact, true, that on many noble 
estates tenants are seldom changed, \)\\t luioieY tq»:5 \i^ ^^ss:? 
moment, by death, by temper, oy game, ot ^s^ ^O^vss^* »- 



30 PBOFITABLB FABMINO. 

have seen enough of this to know that the tenant always 
feels insecure, and that this fear operates as a bar or impeai- 
ment to agricultural development. It is particularly annoy- 
ing and repulsive to a man of capital, intelligence, and 

, independent feeling, that the game on his farm shoiild be 
alienated from him, and his land appropriated and open to a 
stranger and strange gamekeeper for a paltry consideration 
of a shilling per acre. I know some noble and wise land- 
owners who do let the shooting to their tenants, and thus 
attract a superior class of capitafists. 

It astonishes me that we have even progressed thus far in 
agriculture under the present almost feudal restrictions. A 
man farming 500 acres, with a capital of £10,000, is entitled 
to a good and suitable house and farm buildings, and the 
right of shooting ; but now I know of farms larger than 
that, with a wretehed old building a century or two old, and 
only suited to the circumstances of that remote and primi- 
tive period. The consequence is that spirited men of capital 
will nave nothing to d!o with such farms. Give them a 
thirty, fortj^, or fifty years* lease (transferable), on condition 
of their laying out a large sum on a good new house, farm 
buildings, and labourers' cottages, draining, making roads, 
&c., and you would soon see estates in a very different and 
improved condition, much as you do in towns, where cabbage 
gardens have been changed into Belgravias and Tyburnias, 
and the wealth of the noble owners presently and idtimately 
enormously increased. 

It is certainly, in my opinion, far more dignified to be the 
owner of an estate occupied by men of great intelligence, 
capital, and independence, than of one held by humble and 
servile dependents. Not only so, but as a question of 
£. s. d. there is no mistake as to which is most advantageous 
to the landowner and the country at large. If the same 
fear of parting with property for a given period had operated 
in our towns and cities as in our rural districts, the former 
would be now in a most antiquated condition. The Scotch 
system of nineteen years' leases has improved farming and 
raised the rent of land in Scotland. Farmers now often buy 
farms, and mortgage them, so that they may be secure in 
their tenancy, and have the full benefit of their improve- 
ments. If companies were formed for the advancement of 
capital on mortgage for long periods, say twenty years or 
more, on equitable conditions, this practice would be con- 

sider&bly extended. Now the expenae o^ ftec^ent^ transfer 
o/' the mortgages militates againat tVie B^alexti. 



PSBICANSKT PASTUBS. 31 

Among the many obstmctions to agriooltural development 
may be mentioned the existing ownership of land .by entail, 
and this must be extensive, seeing that one half of England 
is owned by only 160 individuals, while one half of the 19^ 
millions of acres of Scotland is owned by only twelve per- 
sons. The owners of the entailed properties, having only a 
life interest in them, conld do little in improving them until 
some recent Acts of Parliament permitted a certain charge 
to be made annually on the estate for improvements. 

As most of our great landowners are legislators, let us 
hope that their well-informed and intelligent minds will still 
fioffther untrammel the land, so that it may produce more 
abundantly food for the people and profit for themselves. 

A vast proportion of the other half of the kingdom is 
nnder mortgage, which again militates greatly against agri- 
cultural progression. If pubHc companies were formed to 
redeem the mortgages, purchase lands, and improve them, 
good tenants could be readily found, willing to pay a suitable 
rent. Men of capital would eagerly compete for such farms, 
seeing that they would be secured by leases and other liberal 
arrangements. They would be free from political subservi- 
ency, and have the sole right of sporting, which men of capital 
and position highly prize. 

Another impediment to a development is that farmers take 
too much land in proportion to their capital, and so do land- 
owners. £10 per acre used to be considered as ample farm- 
capital ; under modem requirements of arable farming, even 
£20 or £30 is not too much. 1 have £17, and that is not 
near enough. The live stock on an arable farm should never 
be less than £6 per acre — £10 would be better. The average 
farm capital of the United Kingdom is under £5 per acre. 
Capital alone will not ensure profitable farming. It must be 
accompanied by business aptitude ; in fact, a knowledge of 
agricultural practice, and a proper carrying of it out. 



GBASS LAND— PBBMANBNT PA8TTJBB. 

Here is the grand field to which we must look for develop- 
ment and progress. One half of the kingdom is in permanent 
pasture. The last Board of Trade returns give 22,156,541 
acres in 1867 as against 21,174,787 in 1866, showing an 
increase of 981,754 acres in ^rass-land. These returns are 
exclusive of heath or mountain land. Owx ^^^^\^dsA^^ ^^ 
BOW in the hands of J^atore; they ako\]\d, wA^LVor^^^^i 



32 FSOFITABLB FABMING. 

pass into the hands of man. We have heard too muph lately 
about laying down land to grass and depending on foreign 
countries for corn. Judging from the latest statistics, that 
opinion appears to have been acted upon. I protest against 
this mistaken practice, as most injurious to the country at 
large. I shall show you by a statement of facts that the 
grass-land of this kingdom is a great national loss and 
mistake — that it is starving our people, and that to advocate 
its extension is a cruel error. I^ot one loaf of bread for man 
is produced by more than one-half the land of this kingdom. 
Wnat would have been our fate this year had all the kingdom 
been in grass P In lieu of a superabundant wheat crop, we 
should have had a famine. The twenty-two millions of acres 
of grass-lands have, this unusually dry season, been almost 
unproductive, and caused a heavy loss to the occupiers and 
to the country at large, while our heavy wheat-crop, with its 
unusual breadth and superior quality, is a blessing and a 
profit. We must, as a result of the season, have dear meat, — 
at any rate, for some time to come. 

Laying down to grass means starving the people and de- 
priving them of employment. It means stagnation in trade 
and manufactures, and a throwing out of employment a very 
large portion of our artisan population. Natural grass-land 
employs little labour, capital, or machinery, and produces 
little food for the people. The pastoral-day has gone by ; it 
cannot remain in the face of an overwhelming and industrial 
population, demanding food and employment. 

<3rra8s-lands are coveted just because they require little 
capital and less skill, and therefore landowners find always 
plenty of tenants for them. Landowners like them, because 
the buildings are few, primitive, and uncostly, repairs small, 
drainage seldom askea for, residences mean, and suited to 
uncapitalled tenants. There is not much trouble about this 
sort of landowning or farming. It is in an unaltered state 
of Nature — no change, no progress, and very little increase 
of rent as compared with arable land. All this is con- 
trary to the general advance of the country in wealth, intel- 
ligence, and population, and totally unworthy of the British 
people. 

Wo must infer from the increase of grass land that there 

exists an opinion that it does not pay to convert it into corn 

land. The proofs, however, are all the other way, as I pur- 

poBe preaeDtly to show. In pluvial districts and suitable 

soj'Ib, especially where irrigated, fhet© ma^ \i^ ^ome excuse 

found for grass lands, but in our dry ceteai ^\«\.x\^\.'& ^«tiaa.» 



GBA88 LAKDS U5FB0FITABLS. 33 

nent grass is a mistake — ^nationally, almost a crime. An ex- 
perience of twenty-five years enables me to speak practically 
on this matter, for out of 170 acres I have only 14 acres in 
permanent pasture, as a run for my stock ; and instead of 
robbing and starving it, I never allow any animals to feed upon 
it without giving them cake, com, &c., as supplemental food. 
For all that, its produce this dry season is at a minimum of 
v&Lue, while my 73 acres of wheat yield 6 quarters of corn 
and 2 tons of straw per acre, the latter available as food for 
stock ; representing together a value of £20 per acre. 

But let me proceed to show you how little our grass land 
produces compared with our arable land, and then you will 
at once perceive how great is the national loss it causes. 

Our 11,431,440 acres in com crops produce, on an average, 
an annual sum of about £83,000,000, besides straw. What 
do our 22,156,641 acres of permanent pasture produce ?«• 
according to my rough or approximate estimate, only about 
£50,000,000, or about 42s. per acre ; while our 11,431,440 
acres in com produce £8 per acre, besides about £2 worth of 
straw. We can thus understand why the gross produce of 
the kingdom is only £3. ISs. per acre, and its capital be- 
tween £4 and £5 per acre ; and we can imagine how wretch- 
edly robbed and starved must be the bulk of the grass land 
of the kingdom. 

Grass lands, instead of being well fed with manure, are 
too often used as milch cows for the arable land. But poor, 
wretched, exhausted pastures not only keep every one at 
low-water mark, but the labourer on such lands should be of 
the Malthusian or Millite school, and not marry ; for how 
can an increasing population find food or employment on a 
never-changing and non-improving soil and crop P It is this 
unfortunate fixity and stagnation that beget a oad name for 
our western and grass land districts, and furnish Canon 
Girdlestone and others with the means to attack agriculture. 
Grass land, looked at from every side, presents weak points, 
and is no longer consonant with our tripled population and 
the progressive spirit of the age. 

To show how httle labour is employed on permanent pas- 
ture, a friend, who was steward over a large grass estate in 
Northamptonshire, assured me that the shepherding was only 
is. 6d, per acre, the attendance on cattle proportionate ; one- 
third 01 the grass being mowed for hay would require more 
labour, but the average would probably be undeT ^&.^^^ 
acre; on arable farms it would \)e from "2.^8. \.q ^%»\«^ ^^-t^. 
On my farm it ia 60s. per acre. 



34 PBOFITABLB FABMINa. 

In confirmation of my censure of grass lands, let me refer 
you to the late Mr. John Morton's report on the condition 
of the Whitfield Example Farm before and after its im- 
proyement (see " Morton on Soils, p. 248) : — 

** Before Improvement. — ^Total acreag^e, 232, of which 1 64 were pasture, 68 
arable. Tenant's capital, .if 7*26, or £Z per acre. Annual produce, ^£"463, or 
4^2 per acre. Labour employed, 8«. Td. per acre; rent and taxes, 22«. per 
acre. 

** After Breaking-up. — Landlord's improvements on the farm by drainage, 
new roads, new bnildingrs, &c., 4^15 per acre, or .if 3,500. Increased rent, 
jgiyb per annum; tenant's capital, ^l6 per acre; increased produce, 
4^2,904." 

Mr. Morton estimated the value of the whole produce o 
the farm in its improved condition at four times that of the 
produce of the farm for the last twenty-one years. Mr. 
Morton made these remarks : — "Houses and buildings very 
limited and in a very bad state of repair. Forest-like 
appearance presented by pasture land. Immense number of 
trees crowded together in the hedgerows, injuring the pas- 
ture, destroying the fences, preventing the drainage, and 
shading the grass, thus making it unpalatable." 

These remarks would apply now to immense tracts of land, 
undrained and unimproved. At vol. ix., p. 54, of the Soyal 
Agricultural Society's Journal, the late Mr. Woodward, a 
wealthy and successful farmer, whom I knew, gives an 
account of the advantages he derived from breaking up poor 
worn-out pasture land. Mr. Woodward, in 1844, pared, dug, 
levelled, and drained 20 acres, at a cost of £7. 10^. per acre. 
The first year it produced 42 bushels of wheat per acre, 
sold for 14 guineas. The second year 50 bushels of wheat 
per acre, the third year 48 bushels per acre — all without 
manure ; the fourth year, with 2^ cwt. of guano per acre, it 
promised to be a large crop. This poor grass land was only 
worth 25*. per acre before improvement. By this operation 
Mr. Woodward was enabled, besides other advantages, to 
give employment to forty labourers for nearly three months 
in the dead of winter. At that period a great many 
labourers were out of employ. This was also the case here- 
about when I carried out my drainage, digging, and other im- 
provements, wages being then only 8*. per week, with a 
considerable over- supply. I dog with forks much of my 
land at 2d. per rod, or £1. 6*. 8^. per acre. It would cost 
50 per cent more now. 
In my own case, after draining a "mece oi "^^e\.G\i<fcd ^ea- 
^are, I pared and burned it, and lot t\ie W^ ^N^eviX^^Awa 



I2(YESTUBMT OF CAPITAL. 35 

years it has yielded abundant crops of wheat, mangels, beans, 
clover, &o. 

I could greath" multiply these instances of the individual 
and national advantages of passing from a pastoral to a 
mixed arable husbandry, but it is unnecessary, for it is so 
obvious, that none can doubt it who read Mr. John C. Mor- 
ton's elaborate prize essay ** On Increasing our Supplies of 
Animal Food," vol. z., p. 341, ** Boyal Agricultural Society's 
JoumaL" 

CAPITAL AND DBAIKAGX. 

Are we, as a nation, short of the capital required for agri- 
cultural development P I can safely answer, decidedly not. 
It is only the inclination to so apply it that is wanting. 

Our annual increase of capital or wealth is estimated at 
£50,000,000. Cannot a large portion of this be spared for 
profitable investment in the increased production of 
our food P If not, what becomes of it P I think I can tell 
you. 

Almost daily, as I read the money article of the Times, I 
see announcements of projected associated companies for 
various undertakings both at home and abroad, and millions 
are at once cheerfuUy poured into the treasury of any foreign 
potentate who happens to be *' short of tin," but not a word 
do we hear about poor British a^culture. Money can be 
readily found for the Mont Cenis Eailway, Berlin Water- 
works, and a hundred other foreign schemes; but poor 
primitive, pastoral agriculture, with its bad roads, ill-shaped 
fields, wretched buildings, undrained clays and swamps, and 
half-manured lands, is unseen and unknown on the London 
Stock Exchange, or, as the late Baron Eothschild called it, 
the financial heart of the world. 

Run your eye down the very long list of associated under- 
takings in any day's Times, and you cannot fail to be struck 
with their number and variety, but not one line about that 
most important of all — the productions of food for the 
British people. It is true, we nave had recently formed two 
or three successful land drainage and land improvement 
companies, but at present they are little known or availed 
of, although so valuable and profitable. Their names and 
shares are never quoted on the Stock Exchange list, and I 
presume that their directors do not ^e© Mi'^ TL^^^^i-^ ^'cst 
placing tbem on that list ; but that X co\i?k\!i«t \»\i^ ^ ^««^ 
mistake, for if you want money, tl[ie c\t^ oi\>a\AQ^*^*^^ 

D 2 j 



36 FBOFITABLB FABMINO. 

place to supply it, as all Chancellors of the Exchequer well 
know. I extract the following from a recent agricultural 
paper : — 

"Lands Improybmbnt Compant.— The 29th half-yearly g^eneral meetmg 
of the shareholders in this company was held on Saturday, in London, Mr. 
W. Wynn, M.P., in the chair. The report of the directors stated that the new 
business for the half-year amounted to idr 116,92 1 ; the outlay by landowners 
to je'85,901 ; the comn^ion and interest earned to ^4,b0\ ; and that, after 
paying and providuig: for all current expenses, there remained a net profit for 
the h^-year of 4^1,689, which, with 4^129 carried forward from the half-year 
ending Sist December, I867, made a total available balance of je'i,8l8. The 
reserve fund on the interest account was jClfllO ; the general reserve fund, 
jf4,47l ; and the preliminary expense account amounts to 46*4,438. The 
directors recommend that a dividend at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum 
should be paid for the past half-year on the paid-up capital of the company, 
firee of hicome tax, and payable forthwith ; and that a bonus at the rate of 
2 per cent, per annum shall also at the same time be paid for the past half, 
year on the paid-up capital of the company, firee of income tax, and payable 
torthwith. The report was adopted." 

One would naturally conclude that with such a perfectly 
safe investment, yielding 8 per cent, per annum, there would 
be a rush of capital to the extent of millions, seeing that the 
500 millions sterling in railways barely pay 4 per cent., with 
sadly fluctuating and depressed prices ; that Consols only 
give 3:^^; and that many millions have been lost by the failures 
of banks and other public companies, so that the public are 
earnestly looking for safe investments. Witness, that money 
on the Stock Exchange is only worth 1 to 1^ per cent, per 
annum, and on first-class bills 2 per cent, per annum. But 
if the public are unaware of the existence of such companies, 
how can they invest in them P In these agricultural com- 
panies no losses can occur, for the money advanced is secured 
by a first charge upon the land, and yet the investments and 
transactions are puny as compared with the requirements. 
And as shown by the following extract from Mr. James 
Sanderson's able pamphlet on agricultural progress :— 

*' Drainage generally yields from 12 to 20 per cent. In a few instances I 
have known the total cost repaid by the first crop. As a rule, drainage 
executed by farmers is uusuccessftd ; and in nine cases out of ten, where 
landowners contribute pipes and tenants labour, both labour and material are 
thrown away. Owners and occapiers, indeed, reap e;qually satisfactory returns 
fkom drainage } the former getting their estates permanently improved with- 
out expending one shilling of tBeir own, the latter by paying 7 per cent, 
interest per annum, realizhig in lieu 16 per cent, value. 

" Since the Government loan, which gave the first impulse to dndnage, was 

taken up, financial companies have greatly facilitated the execution of drainage 

works. During the last ten years the Land Improvement Company has 

mdvaaced loans on drainage in England to about .1^1,500,000. Estimating that 

the half of that sum has been advanced by aM othet financial companies and 

Jaadlords together, the extent of land annaaU^* ATa\ue(iVx\'E.tv%\wiA,comvQLtVa€ 

tae cost at jerdper acre, is only 37,500 acres. PtogTea%\xv«,X'*\«t^ox^, oxiq %x. 



BEMUKEBATIVS IMPB0YBMBNT8. 37 

the prerent rate, it will take 133 years to complete the drainage of wet land. 
Adding to the undrained area the extensive breadth of undrained land in 
Scotland and Ireland, the large reclaimable mountain area, the wide tract of 
convertible forest and moorland, and the very large area reclaimable from 
the sea, and flrom the straightening and embanking of riversj we see that the 
undeveloped food resources of Great Britain are still vast." 

I find practically that all my drains laid twenty-five years 
ago are still perfect. In fact, deep pipe drainage appears to me 
to be a permanent operation, provided the proper outlets are 
kept free, and that roots of trees are not permitted to enter 
spring drains. Mr. Bailey Denton calculates that twenty 
millions of our acres still require draining, at a cost of 
£100,000,000. 

The importance of keeping heavy land dry is well illus- 
trated this remarkable season, when we have abundant 
wheat crops on farms that in a wet season would, for want 
. of drainage, have grown wretched crops. The fioodless 
winter of 1867-68, and this dry and warm spring and summer, 
rendered drains less necessaiy, for there was no excess of 
moisture to be carried from the land by drains. The great 
and deep cracks or fissures effected an upward drainage by 
evaporation. In a letter I addressed to the Times in 1861 
(see page 464 of my book) I said : — 

'* There are many millions of acres of exhausted grass-lands and poor stiff 
clay* which now bind the tenants in poverty and discontent that would be 
rendered profitable by an investment of ^20 to 4^36 per acre in the following 
improvements : — 

Drainage ^7 ' 

Subsoiling or deepened cultivation 2 n o 

Removal of hedgerows, trees, and improved roads . . 2 o o 

Covered yards and good farm buildings 7 

Suitable residence for a tenant with capital . . . . 5 

Steam machinery for various purposes 2 10 

Burnt day, chalk, or lime 5 o o 

Guano, bones, or other manures 3 

Sewage irrigation where practicable 3 

** So here is a total of landlord's and tenant's improvements, which con- 
Jointly would certainly result in individual and national profit. I am speaking 
pracdcally in this matter ; and I know that it would be a happy circumstance 
for the generality of clay-land farmers to have their present rents doubled, or 
even tripled^ provided that the increased rental represented a fair interest on 
the sum expended on landlord's improvements.'* 

My balance-sheets confirm the foregoing opinion. 



STEAM FOWEB 

IS now so well known to be profitable that I need kardl^ 
advert to it. Besides cultivatioxi, it %Vo\3\^ crcv w^ii^^ ^■«x'aaA 
work mill'Btonea, pumps, chaff-cxxUeta, c«\L^-\ix^^«^^^'^'^*^" 



38 FSOFITABLE FABMING. 

pulpers, thrashing and dressing machines. Much extension 
18 required in this matter of steam. It is only as yet in its 
infancy. I have worked my engine for twenty years. Be- 
fore fixed steam-engines can become general, special agree- 
ments with the landowner, as to removal or transfer, will be 
required. No arable farm of 150 acres should be without a 
steam-engine. 

TOWN SEWAGE. 

It does astonish me that landowners do not associate 
themselves by Act of Parliament, for the purpose of obtaining 
sewage, just as they do in the Fen districts for the removal 
of surplus or injurious water. The system has worked well 
for centuries ; why should it not in sewage P It is of no use 
to carry either gas, sewage, or water to those who do not 
care to receive or pay for it, and no company can succeed 
unless in conjunction with the landowners under Acts of 
Parliament, the same as railways, canals, and other great 
imdertakings. Take the case of the great metroDolitan 
sewers, with the mountain of food and lake of liquias con- 
sumed by 3^ millions of people (agriculturally, I would com- 
pare them, weight for weight, with an equal number of 
sheep). Here a company has a grant of fifty year^ of the 
ITorth London sewage (a river of sewage), and yet agricul- 
ture shows no sign of demand for that precious stream of the 
life-blood of the nation ; so the company languishes. Some- 
thing compulsory must soon be done, or the navigation of 
the Thames will be imperilled. 

The 150 landowners who own one-half of England, and 
the twelve who own half of Scotland, have the matter to a great 
extent in their own hands, for they are mostly legislators. 
I calculate that at least six millions of acres are exhausted 
annually in producing food for the population and horses of 
the metropous. 

Mr. Morton has just informed us that some of the sewaged 
land at Barking, that last year produced forty tons of rye- 
grass per acre (equal to sixteen tons of hay), has this dry 
year yielded forty-three tons of mangel per acre. Is not 
this sufficient evidence of profit? Many or our great estates 
will require a remodelling on a scale of arrangement suited 
to the modem requirements of steam cultivators, sewage 
irrigation, &o. It would pay well. 



MANAOBMENT OF CATTLF. 39 



FABMING IS AS CBETAIN A SOURCE OF PROFIT AS ANT OTHER 
BUSINESS, ON AN AVERAOB OF YEARS. 

On this point I speak practically. The return is slow but 
sure. I speak, of course, of well-managed farms — drained, 
free from fences and timber, and with suitable buildings — 
where there is capital and judgment. A clear 10 per cent, 
on farm capital, and a house rent-free may safely be taken 
as a minimum average. If farming was generally unpro- 
fitable, it would be given up; or rents would be reduced 
to a minimum. 

LIVE STOCF. 

A very important source of agricultural development is 
the better management of cattle. I speak practically on this 
matter, for I have annually quite forty bullocks and 200 sheep, 
sometimes many more, and we have very rarely any loss of 
consequence; but before this development can take place 
fully, there must be a reform in our homesteads. The open 
farmyard must be abolished, and replaced by enclosed and 
covered sheds, well ventilated in the roof, and with paved 
floors. These operations are certainly profitable. The com- 
minution, intervarying, and intermixing the food by means 
of steam-power is an essential, also free access to good 
water, and to rock-salt in thef mangers. Exposure and mis- 
management of cattle inflict a loss of several millions an- 
nually on the British farmer. The turning out of cattle 
must, as a rule, be siven up, and will be gradually done 
away with as we break up our pastures. These are matters 
that I have long since tested by £>. s, d. If an account 
could be taken of farm horses dying as a result of drinking 
cold water when they are heated, and getting gripes and 
inflammation from tough unprepared tares and clover, the 
total annual loss, added to that of cattle, would be found to 
be something astounding. Let us remember that Is, per 
acre is over £2,000,000 per annum. Taking the whole 
country, very much more than this is lost annually to the 
farmer by disease and death in stock. 

IBT us IMPORT CATTLE FOOD IN LIEU OF MAN's FOOD. 

In the former case the results go lo exLtvc^ wa vs^,\si. ^^ 
htter they^are wasted in our nvexa. ^y ai\3KC^^ liWiSKosss^- 



40 PROFITABLE FAB^nNG. 

tion of foreign cattle food we are enabled to procure our 
manure at the cheapest rate, and most effectiye in quality ; 
and we can then produce more corn and meat at a dimi- 
nished cost. If our grass lands are to be converted into 
arable, such a course becomes absolutely necessary. My 
own experience teaches me that this consumption of much 
foreign food is the certain key to profit, by forcing maximum 
crops. "By this practice we feed the people and the land at 
the same time. 

Our annual produce of wheat does not increase, because 
the wheat after consumption does not return to the soil, but 
goes down to the sewers ; and but for the enormous sums 
paid by farmers for guano, bones, and artificial manures, the 
land of England would be still further impoverished. If we 
could see in one great heap the food suppler of London for 
one year, it would be found to be a mountain, and its drink 
a great lake. 

The fact that our growth of wheat remains stationary, or 
rather retrogrades, proves, what we already know, that the 
land of England does not receive more than one-third its 
proper supply of manure, or in other words, food-producing 
power. 

SUMMABY AND CONCLUSIOK. 

I think that you will agree with me that I have clearly 
proved by this paper, and Ijy my practical experience of 
twenty-five years at Tip tree, that by an increased invest- 
ment of capital, both on the part of landlord and tenant, the 
produce of the United Kingdom might be much more than 
doubled — that our undeveloped power is immense, and that 
its being called into action would greatly benefit the country 
at large. 

It would be irrational to expect that such a change can 
take place suddenly — that both landowners and tenants 
would be content to diminish their holdings to the level of 
the required capital, but it is well to discuss such matters in 
public, and to prepare our minds for a great and profitable 
change and progress. Where there is a will a way may be 
found, and, I trust, will be found good for agriculture and 
for the country at large. 

In conclusion, I fully endorse the opinion expressed bj 

that eminent Frenchman, M. Lavergne, in page 227 of his 

'*JRural Economy of England : " — " An English farmer is 

capable of any effort when lie ieeVa coii^dftxit that he is 

under a good landlord, who doea no^ \ivft \ivccL ^Q^^ircL \ft^ 

etrictly, and who will help him at a pmcV 



FABU ACCOiritTS. 



m 



SJIII 

"ii 



a " a a^ "5 Bii = jiiijz „ft^ 



42 



PROFITABLE FABMINO. 



00 



-a 



lo e 00 






o t^ o tseco M 
64 ^ OkM eo «> Ok 



OkOkO oo e o 

^ I 

O O M ^ ^ 04 « 

04 '^ — ^ 



04 



Gtl 



•^ 



to 

00 



•2 



C4 o e 
e o e 



Pi 



O ^ Ok" O OQ to 

o^ e4oo»^ao. 

lO ■^ ^ 10 C« M) t>. 

04 09 t>.C4(0 n •-* 



o o e 



<o<o o 



iQ eo •<» . , — •* 04 
00 CO (^ ec 00 Ok 



eo 

04 

o» 

00 



5(1 






H 
O 

o 
o 






P4 



00 

I 

I 



(O 



•2 

2 



coot>k o>-< •-H'ookoeo 

CO 04 O t>k ODOkinOkOO 



CO ^00 
00 

eo 

5(1 



m ^ _i M 00 04 00(0 
04 eo ^ 04 e< ^ t^ 



o o e o e 

O OkO '^ o . . . 
« ' I I 

K* lO -N — 04 



O to O O 



e o « o o e 



o o« oe ODO-Nt^t^oo 



Ok M 04 

r* ■* 00 

eo 
5(1 



tn •« t>.e4 eo Okoco 
e<io too4eoe4MM 



o e e 

"-"Mill 

CD t>>M 



OS" 




(O 



lO 

•o 

04 



00 

o 

04 



TABU Accocais. 



ggSSS S3 SISSSSSZS" " 






I fRS-a §25 S35S 



■J- 

si 



1f^ 



/ / 



=!^i| 

|i/i^/ 



it 



I if 






\ 



u 



PfiOFITABLB FABMINO. 



I 

J, 
GO 

O 

o 
o 

»^ 

1-3 

w 

pl3 



CO 

7 



00 



S 



s 

00 

I 



o 

H 

GQ 



to 

00 



s 



Qo i>» Ok e i>> •H 

r^ ^m w^ ^-4 

5— O •* pn o 



09 



e o«o o<o<o 
to K«o lo i>«e 

00 ^ '^i ^ 



"* eo 

09 « 



00 '<» 

« — 



00 

FN 

to 
e 



0-« 0} O lO 

'<* » 00 M» lO 
<0 00 •-< •-< GO 



^ 



«o<o 
at 00 






o 

«o 

» 

e 



00 

«o 

00 






— © o> o 

O O © !>. 






Ok 

1^ 



^ 



9* 
94 



n 

GO 



e e e e«o e 
M M t^M) t>.e 

2 ©«B M •-< 00 

00 CO eo M 



to eo 
eo 00 



CO e 

to 94 



to 

00 

mm 

I 

.£: 

A 

00 

T 

I 

8 



e 14 e 

•OX) 00 



eo eo FN 
r>M<o 

00 



00 

FN 

o 



o»— « 



M '<r m •^ 
Qt<o >o 00 

O 00 



64 



to 

00 
74 



94 



i 



9 

a 
1 

9* 

ja 

OD 
09 

I 



IS 

-I 



8 

n 



<o 

00 
I 

1 

I 



e o o> 
— o o 



o 
e 



eo o>-* '* 
S '^ "* '^ 

00 »N 



o> 



04 



p-'S 

"8- 



a 

ja 

c 



a 

c 

eS 



•3 =»■ 

•a « 
o u 

•o o 

§^ 









*«^ 



71BM ACCOUKia. 
tatge price of what Capital. 

lee; .. Alt. 7)il. .. 3;E7I 

lees .. S3t. gd. .. 3,8sb 



at TIptrefl Fann. 
KB = lol "„ 

4(9 ^ 19 



Atenft tA fooc yean, m per cent, or 3ii. ^d. per ac 


re. 


Dec. 31 .-Sundry unpaid aecoonta 
owiDg^tlieltam .. .. 

owiiittotheftinn 


IMS. 


IBB?. 


IB<S. 


-«■ 1. d. 
1.1BI 17 « 




s,7iiB • 



. 


IMO 


IBfl7. 


iste. 


■imiKeB.&c. '.' v. '.'. '.'. 
Har. com, Ac, untold .. 

Tmanfs capital per ac«.. 


rf« 


S s 8 


^0 it 


'•" " " 


*ie 15 a 


^18 1 






.m. 


,m- 


,e8;.;,.88. 


lasp. 




















SB* 


7Bf 


ea) 




















































iSi 


)ii 


III 




8 
























































*i 


















— 


— 




— 


li 


ie:l 


jfl'i 


IM 'Ifloj 


nai 


























































' 


\- 


\- 


-,1^ 



46 



FBOFITABLE FABMING. 



Available acres l6o 

Fences, ditches, and road 6 

Ditto on my own farm 7 

Buildingrs, staclcyard, &c 2 

Private house, garden, and shrubberies .. .. 3 

Total (landlord's measure) .. .. 177 
Corn, &c., sbnt to Market. 





1867. 


1868. 


White wheat 

Red wheat 

Revett wheat 

Barley 

Peas and beans 

Oats sold to horses (except Bs.) . . 

White clover seed 

Potatoes 

Green peas 

Sold for money 

Com and hay sold to Kve stock and farm 

horses. 

Com used as seed 


4^586 6 9 

240 8 6 

ISO 4 

122 6 

66 2 

070 

24 15 

16 5 9 


je767 14 9 

157 8 6 

310 2 6 

48 7 6 

23 2 6 

12 13 


jff 1,186 11 2 
41 6 


^1,319 8 9 
68 2 


1,227 16 a 

279 14 
35 4 3 


1,387 8 11 

281 17 
50 6 


jei,542 14 6 


46*1,719 6 6 



EEMAEKS ON THE BALANCE-SHEET OF 1867. 

• 

The result is more fayourable than that of the two pre* 
ceding years, owing to the crop being better and the price 
higher than in 1866. The advantages arising from draining 
deeper cultivation, and ample manure were m 1867 particu- 
larly striking. Labour was dearer in 1867 than in 1866; so 
were horse corn and feeding stuffs. The farm continues to 
gain in fertility. Sheep were valued at a much lower price 
than last year. Li 1867, owing to the high price of corn, 
cake, &c., the live-stock account only leaves about £4 per 
acre to pay for root and ^een crops consumed. The depression 
in value of sheep had also something to do with it. 

Li 1865 the live stock left about £6. 10s. per acre for the 

root and green crops consumed, after paying for all purchased 

/hod. In 1866 they only paid £5 per acre, because com, 

ca^e, &c„ were all dearer than in 1865, although meat was, 

/^^jthin^, rather cheaper. The \abo\it atteTLawiH. ou %\»^t 

jsf charged in the general labour aocouat, li*\\. wi^^^ «tL- 



TIFTBEE HALL BALANCE-SHEET OF 1867. 47 

gine coals, &c., were charged to the live-stock account, 
very little would be left for the green and root crops ; and 
yet I consider it is this great consumption of purchased food, 
and consequent manure, that makes the farm pay : without 
it, it would not pay. 

The tillages comprise the cultivation, seeding, and manu- 
ring. Our preparation for the mangel crop, including rent, 
&c., costs about £12 per acre. Beans are also well manured; 
so are cabbages. The land for mangel and cabbage is 
always deeply trench -ploughed after being manured. 
The preparation for mangel is always before Clurist- 
mas. Wheat is manured for with 2 cwt. of guano, and 
some salt when taken after beans, roots drawn ofiT, or 
wheat. Peas are taken after two years' Italian rye<i 
grass. White turnips on the light land are fed oflf early^ 
and followed by either wheat or barley. At present we see 
no mode of farming this land likely to be more remunerative 
than our present system. Much straw is used as food cut 
into fine chafif and mixed with pulped roots, ground com, 
rape, linseed or cotton cake, malt combs, and bran. Our 
farm horses have all their food prepared and comminuted. 
They are rarely turned out, except sometimes at night during 
harvest. 

The practice on my farm is based upon the theory that the 
growth of corn and other agricultural products is made to 
depend upon the making of meat. There is a great advan- 
tage in this system, for when corn is at a low average price I 
seu it to my live stock, and thus increase my store of ma- 
nure, and pro tanto prevent over-stocking the com market. 
I have observed that when wheat is cheap meat is dear, and 
vice versd. In 1865, when Eevett wheat was only 36*. per 
quarter, or 1*. per stone of 14 lb., I ground it up for my 
bullocks, mixed with other substances. In 1866, with the 
same wheat selling at 65*. per quarter, I sell it to the miller 
or factor, because, meat being rather cheaper than in 1866, it 
would not answer, at such an improved price, to consume it. 
The same remark holds good for barley. We invariably 
consume all our beans and oats — sell them, in fact, to our 
stock. This high system of farming keeps the land always 
readj for a good breadth of wheat wnen it is dear, and forces 
maximum crops at all times. I entirely dissent from the 
modem theory that we must make meat only, and depend 
on foreigners for our wheat. On tke cohIt^lTj^Y ^^"^ Ts^st^ 
wheat and make more meat concvitTeTi^iX.^ • 'Y^ccka ^"^QS^^ 
proved to be a sound and provable "pxacXivc©. 



48 FSOFITABLB PABMING. 

The foregoing lire-stock balance-sheets confirm in a 
remarkable degree my celebrated live-stock balance-sheet 
that created such a furore in 1851 (see p. 188 of my book) ; 
they prove that if you charge the live-stock account with the 
cost of green and root crops, attendance, labour, interest of 
capital, rent for shelter, in addition to the purchased food 
(as was all done in the 1861 balance-sheet), the live-stock 
accounts will show a considerable loss. In the present 
balance-sheet these expenses are charged in the general farm 
account. That live-stock account was almost as favourable 
as my recent ones, taking into account the enormous quan- 
tity of purchased food. The wisdom of those large invest- 
ments m purchased food is confirmed by the very much 
greater consequent yield of every crop. — February ^ 1868. 



EEMAEKS ON THE BALANCE-SHEET OF 1868. 

My abundant and extensive wheat crops, of fine quality, 
sold at remunerative prices, had led me to anticipate a very 

frofitable year, but my expectations were disappointed when 
made up my live stock account, so that the net surplus 
of income over expenditure is only say £525. 13*. 6c?., instead 
the £728. 6*. 10<?. of 1867. The failure of the root and 
green crops, the high prices of purchased food, and the 
necessity for using much more of it than usual, caused the 
live stock account to show a much greater loss than usual. 
The £900 worth of purchased food was probably 20 per cent, 
dearer than in 1867. The live stock account leaves nothing 
for thirty acres of root and green crops, and nothing for 
attendance, &c. A very large amount of valuable manure 
has, however, resulted from the great consumption of food 
not grown on the farm. No stock is sold ofif this farm except 
in prime fat condition. Had we sold lean store stock the loss 
would have been much greater, and so it would ha.d not our 
stock been carefully folded or housed, and fed on prepared, 
pulped, chafied, and mixed warm food. In any case, it does 
not answer to farm without plenty of fat stock. Cow- 
farming and the raising of lean store stock are opposed to 
abundant corn -growing on poor soils like mine. 
The hot, dry season was very unfavourable to light land 
^rmera, and 1 bare reason to believe Wx«it flock and stock 
breeders on our twenty-two miWiona o£ tLCiea oi ^etrnwissux* 



MB. MBCHI. 49 

pasture have suffered severe losses by forced sales at low 
prices, and by dearly-purchased food. Horse food has been 
more expensive than usual, wages have been high, and the 
hard, dry ground has brought to grief many farm imple- 
ments and vehicles, and thus increased the amount of 
tradesmen's bills. 

Although the wheat crop was good, this has not been a 
good farmer's year ; barley, spring beans, and oats having 
been light crops. My profit as a tenant«farmer (after paying 
my improved rent of 40*. per acre) will this year be only 
£1. 13*. per acre, or 9^ per cent., while last year it was 
£3. Os, Sd. per acre, or 18 per cent. Let us hope for better 
times. 

It will be seen by the annexed balance-sheet that the 
average profit of the four years is 12^ per cent, on tenant's 
capital, or 33*. 4d. per acre — this, of course, after providing 
40*. per acre, the improved rent. — Jan,, 1869. 



Mb. MECHI. 

I HAVE long since ceased to be angry about any comments 
on my practice as a farmer or agricultural improver. As a 
public man I expect that a very great variety of sentiments 
must have been awakened and feelings excited, and, in many 
cases, honest doubts have arisen about the propriety of my 
agricultural proceedings. 

Standing on the rock of truth, and supported comfortably 
by success, I can well afford personally to despise even mis- 
representation ; but wishing well to agricultural progress, I 
cannot leave any infringement of truth, interfering with the 

§ood cause, unchastised! I observe that adverse critics, who 
islike Tiptree proceedings, and do not desire that my farm- 
ing should succeed, carefully avoid a personal inspection of 
the farm, and prefer to pick up and reproduce the second- 
band gossip or floating grumblings of prejudiced and dis- 
contented practitioners. The stem logic of facts supplied by 
a personal investigation before or during harvest would 
be inconveniently and unpleasantly convincing, so it is 
prudently avoided under pretence of not being able to hire 
a conveyance. I must even venture to difier with my able 
agricultural friend, the Editor, and state that, in the practical * 
working of this farm, in its detaila, it tqk^ eQ\£^^\>^ ^^<^ 
with th^ mos^ economical elfiewVieie, \>o\)dl \Ti ^wX^^s^aaaas^* 
ment and reanlt. 



50 FBOFITABLB FABMING. 

Before I proceed to consider and rebut the charges of " An 
Old Farmer and Agent," let me say, but not in self-praise, 
that this farm has been visited weekly, nay, almost daily, by 
sensible and able practical agriculturists from all parts of the 
kingdom, and, indeed, of the civilised world, who have 
expressed favourable opinions of the crops and management. 
I need hardly say how ready I am to avail myself of any 
suggestion that would increase the profit of the farm. But 
I must decline the " Old Farmer's " advice of going back 
to the little hedge-surrounded fields and undrained shallow- 
ploughed lands of the original occupation. The land was 
full of water then, now the brooks have it ; and instead of 
robbing the poor of their water I have deprived their lands 
of superfluous moisture and afforded them a brook of pure 
spring water of the finest quality, running for many miles 
before it reaches the sea, and thus " spoilii^ his best cases of 
fever," as the late medical man of this neighbourhood used 
jocularly to say to me. 

The origin of this charge was, that when I drained the 
bog of the farm twelve feet deep (a difficult operation), I 
lowered the water level, and the public-house in the village 
could only obtain water by sinking their well deeper. My 
drains have discharged constantly for twenty-five years about 
40,000 gallons of the purest water daily, and that water flows 
for miles, supplying many cottages which previously only got 
stagnated or impure water. The drainmg of the cottage 
gardens and neighbours* lands by drying this bog and 
another one has been a real benefit to their health and 
> produce. 

The general drainage of this neighbourhood, following my 
example, has greatly uenefited the crops and the sanitary 
condition of the district, which is most healthy, though 
somewhat cold from its superior altitude. If an "Old 
Farmer " had any doubt about the ancient condition and 
fertility of Tiptree Heath, with its geese, donkeys, cross 
roads, and gipsy camps, it would be removed by the com- 
mon saying in this country — "Tiptree Heath P God help 
you ! " and " Cold, poor Tiptree Heath, with its once wel£ 
known fair and races." Even now many farmers say, "Why, 
Mr. Mechi, I would not farm such land if you were to give 
it to me." 

What strange mistakes and misrepresentations the "Old 

farmer " makes when he amusingly states that the old- 

^shioned tnmble'down dwelUng-houae (previous to my pur- 

e^ase of it in 1841) was called Tiptree H^J^, «^^\liYii?,\}aaX. 



TIPTBEB HALL, FAST AND PBESEKT. 51 

the first owner of it was a person of some note in the country, 
and that the house was the chief one in the parish ! Now, 
the old farm was called Sadler's or Bigmore's farm, and, like 
many other lath-and-plaster farm buildings, had its bedrooms 
in tne roof, the ceiling high in the middle, and about 18 
inches from the floor near the windows. When I pulled it 
down as unrepairable, and rebuilt the premises elsewhere, 
I rechristened it Tiptree Hall. After this the remaining 
strictures of " An Old Farmer " may pass for what they are 
worth. I never said that the farm had not been in cultiya- 
tion previous to my purchase of it. The labourers on the 
farm tell me that only a small area of wheat used to be 
grown ; that in a wet season it produced as little as 1^ to 2 
quarters per acre, and that the farm now produces in meat 
and com three times its former produce. I remember walk- 
ing over it in 1842, when it was in a wretched condition, 
water-lodged and altogether like too many others of the 
present aay. 

Kow as to the charge of misrepresenting produce, I thought 
that I had so distinctly (in my recently published balance 
sheets for 1864 and 1865) detailed every particular as to 
cropping, <&c., that no one, except intentionally, could 
misunderstand or misrepresent it. 

I have 56 acres of wheat. I have already sold 190 
quarters, and have still 4 stacks (100 quarters) to sell. I 
nave plenty of beans, barley, oatis, ana peas, and quite 60 
tons of good clover, grass, and Italian rye-grass hay. 

My stackyard is well filled, although I have sold 190 
quarters of wheat, not coarse, but good white and red wheat, 
mostly the former (club-headed rough chaff). I have 44 
short-horn bullocks fattening in paved and covered yards, 
75 ewes, and 107 lambs of my own breeding. I have been 
shy of pigs for the last twelve months, owing to the high 
price of barley, and consequently I have avoided those heavy 
losses sustained last winter and spring by pig breeders and 
feeders. 

If farmers are to make poor stiff land pay, land-owners 
must drain the land and put up proper buildings for stock. 
Farmers must invest a much larger acreable capital, and keep 
more live stock. 

I have £15 to £16 per acre as tenant, and find that is 
not enough. Without £20 per acre you cannot keep your 
com over, and provide a sufficiency of live stock. £20tAxssiS!^ 
capital will pay a much better iuteTesX. ow avv«> ^^t^*^%ss.^tk. 
two, and this ia one of tbe moaVi vax^ox\«xv\. \^^vs"sa '^sis^ 

B 2 



52 PBOFITABLB FABMINO. 

farmers have to learn. The great want of agriculture is 
more manure and maximum crops. These follow one another 
in logical sequence. 

Hiere is no way of obtaining manure so good and so cheap 
as by feeding cattle with good rich food. Excepting certain 
soils, dependence on guano and other artificial manures 
is a great mistake, although they are occasionally useful 
auxiliaries. A landowner said the other day : " My tenants 
have been selling straw and buying guano — the conseauence 
is a gradual exhaustion of their soil and diminution of their 
crops : I have not done so, and consequently my land main- 
tains its fertility. They were too far away to bring back 
town manure." Here we have a practical illustration of the 
truth of Baron Liebig's prediction that a dependence on 
Peruvian guano alone would surely bring on exhaustion. 

My experience teaches me that agriculturists (both land- 
lords and tenants) must prepare themselves for a great change 
in the mode of administering food to cattle and farm horses. 
Already they have fallen into the improved method of root 
pulping, chaff-feeding, &c. Their grass, clover, and green 
crops must be treated in the same way if the most is to be 
made of them. Steam-power makes child's play of finely 
comminuting such crops, and as I look at the asphalted floor 
covered with finely cut green food, mixed with chaff, malt- 
combs, and bran, and consider how accessible such a mass 
must be to the gastric juices, and what advantages it possesses 
in various ways (no treading, lying down, or dunging on the 
food), I find a ready and satisfactory reply to those who ask 
innocently, " How can you find food, Mr. Mechi, for forty- 
four bullocks on your small farm, besides your 182 sheep P " 

The turning-out system for cattle, especially after Sep- 
tember, must soon be given up. It will not pay like the other 
system of covered yards and paved floors. My bailiff has 

1'ust reminded me that we employ eight to nine men in 
larvesting, where formerly only four were required — a pretty 
sure proof of the increase of produce. 

Personally it does not signify a straw whether Mr. Mechi 
loses or gains bv his farming, but, as it affects the general 
improvement of our agriculture, it rises into the utmost 
importance. — September 16. 

I decidedly disclaim to be an agricultural teacher. On 
i^he contrary, I am always a learner, seeking for the most 
pro£table, 'and therefore the best, mode« oC amcultural 
practice. It is true that I make pubUo my iws\A wSl Y^w^aafc, 



FAULT-FINDEBS ANSWEBBD. 53 

and sometimes veDture an opiDion ; bat I hold that it is good 
for agricultural progress that we should make known and 
compare, and thus derive profitable information from each 
other. Of course, such a system is unpalatable to those who 
wish to make farming a hole-and-corner business, and shade 
it from the light of observation ; but the time for that is 
gone by, now that we have good roads, railways, penny post, 
and a rapidly growing agricultural press, in which we may 
all meet, discuss, and compare. As I have already said, I 
am always a learner ; and 1 assure those agriculturists who 
profess to be displeased with my practice, that if they will 
point out how I can improve the gains on my farm, I shall 
not only feel much obliged to them, but will at once adopt 
the practice they recommend, and so increase the money in 
my pockets. 

Pmding fault without suggesting a remedy is both 
unkind and childish, and savours strongly of a convic- 
tion that our present mode of agriculture is perfect, and 
incapable of improvement. So long as the average yield of 
each acre in the United Kingdom is only a trifle over £3 
annually, I shall be no participator in such a conviction. I 
am a good deal amused by the various styles of admonition 
or censure bestowed upon me and my balance-sheets. May 
I ask these parties to produce their own balance-sheets, and 
thus improve and enlighten meP One calls me a market 
gardener, because the railway enables me to send my peas 
green in the pod to the London market instead of harvesting 
them and sending them dij. Another grumbles because at 
a leisure time I aid my neighbour with horse- work, and he in 
return aids me when I am over-busy, each party charging 
the other according to the work done. A third censures me 
for grinding my own and my neighbour's corn, and inno- 
cently asks what is to be done if we all become millers P He 
might ad well suggest our all becoming cotton-spinners, or 
tailors, or butchers and bakers. Another infers that because 
I do not sell lean animals I do not breed any. I do breed 
a hundred lambs annually, and sell them as fat mutton at a 
year old. I always used to rear thirty calves annually until 
the cattle plague made it dangerous. I stand fast to my 
axiom, that selling lean stock off the farm impoverishes it, 
and is inconsistent with large produce of com and roots. It 
is only very rich land or dairy districts that will stand ^wsiK 
treatment. Plenty of fat stock and^^YeiA.^ ol cQtw.Tss».^\i^ 
our future motto,— Tiptree Hall, Feb. lA'^'^^- 



64 FBOFITABLB FABMING. 

Slate Wafer Tanks, — Having used several for more than 
twenty years I can speak of their cleanliness and durability. 
There is one point, however, that requires amendment and 
alteration. Mine answered admirably until the foundation 
on which they rested settled or gave way a little — and then, 
although the difference was only the thickness of a sixpence 
or less, there was leakage. This is easily remedied or pre- 
vented by small bars of iron, ^ inch to f inch or 1 inch, pass- 
ing under or through the bottom of the cistern and hooked 
on the upper edge of the slate, or the cistern may be clamped 
with iron outside — the object bein^ to tie the various slabs 
of slate together, so that if there is any sinking or settle- 
ment it should all go together, and the bottom slate should 
thus be prevented from leaving the upper ones. In fact, all 
slate cisterns should be well clamped, and then the founda- 
tion is comparatively unimportant. Again, with very large 
slate slabs there should be iron ties passing through them 
across from one side to the other, and well screwed up with 
a broad outside flange under the nut. The pressure of water 
is so great that these matters require attention, especially 
where the tanks hold 2,000 to 3,000 gallons. Any crack is 
easily closed by asphalte. I know of a very old slate tank, 
well clamped and tied outside with iron, which has been 
removed and somewhat roughly used without the least 
leakage. — September, 1867. 

Tke Slug Pest is this year in full vigour, especially in our 
clovers, so that there is danger again for our wheat plants. * 
They suffered much last season. I cross-ploughed my 
clovers just after harvest, and again ploughed them for 
wheat : so there was no slug ; but on 5 acres of one of the 
same fields not ploughed twice, a large portion was slug 
eaten. As this twice ploughing appears to oe a certain cure, 
I communicate it for the benent of my brother agriculturists. 
I suppose the drying of the furrow-slice and the clover within 
it starves them to death. The flrst ploughing should be early, 
and in dry weather. The crop was better where twice 
ploughed. Liming at night is also beneficial. An intelligent 
farmer who visited us lately told the bailiff that he never 
suffered from slug. He well harrowed the clovers in dry 
weather with sharp harrows, which pulled out the slugs from 
their hiding-placeB around the stem of the clover, and the 
roller, following immediately, cTu&hed them. My young 
cabbage plants, after a heavy crop o£ taie^, "^exe \\X«Mii3i^ 
covered with them. With a laiit\iOTn, a\>Qu^ Aft tj.tjl.A 



SOWING TOO THICKLY. 56 

counted as many as 14 on a single leaf ; so I sowed about 
4 bushels of fresh-slaked lime per acre, and found them, the 
next day, as a shrivelled and aried-up chrysalis. A second 
dressing was also necessary, and my lorty ducks early in the 
morning gorged themselves with any escaped slugs. On the 
dry earth their trail or track would shine with dried silvery 
slime. But for these arrangements our crops would be 
partially destrojed.'-^Sepfember 4t, 



1 TO THB EDITOE OF THE "TIMES." 

Sib,— Wishing well to British agriculture, and looking to 
the production and economy of our food as a paramount 
principle, I feel bound and justified, on public grounds, to 
protest against a practice in British agriculture which annu- 
ally, and this year particularly, causes a loss and deteriora- 
tion of food to an enormous extent — ^I mean the practice of 
sowing too thickly. 

If this rule had been deduced from a comparative trial of 
various quantities suitable to the peculiarities of soil, climate, 
and manurial conditions, there need be no objection, but 
I know that too generally it is not so ; but we are following 
an old custom established when broadcasting was the only 
mode of sowing, very imperfect and uncertain as compared 
with the new and accurate deposit of seed by drill. This 
and the modern high-farming system of draining, deeper 
cultivation, and forcing great growths by cake feeding and 
artificial manures, demands and necessitates a much more 
limited quantity of seed, especially as the modern dressing 
and blowing machines separate and withdraw all light and 
imperfect kernels. 

See what has taken place this year. Tens of thousands 
of acres of com crops have been prematurely laid flat to 
the ground, weeds and clover growing through them and 
tying them, as it were, to the damp earthy thus producing 
xnildewed and imperfectly developed kernels, ana deterio- 
rating the sample so much as to diminish its value 10s, or 
more per quarter. 

The loss thus entailed is probably £2 to £3 per acre in 
quality alone, and in quantity an ec\]QL"8\ waicrocci^* ^^^^ '?^'«» 
2S also seriously damaged and dimVm^^^^m'^iJiiSia. 

I speak practically in this matlex, ioic ^xorvsL^^.'^^'^^-''^^^^ 



66 PJHOFITABLB FABKING. 

jears I have, by comparative trials established, as regards 
this farm, quantities of seed suited to its peculiar circum- 
stances. The result is a return or increase of from forty to 
fift]^-six for each kernel sown, with a perfect quality of 
grain and straw, while the average of England gives, accord- 
ing to one of our best authorities (Mr. James Caird), a return 
ofonly nine for one. 

The cause is obvious^-an early and grass-like vegetation 
of crowded plants compete injuriously for their food in the 
soil, like an unthinned plantation or turnip-crop, and thus 
weaken or destroy each other. So dense a vegetation shuts 
ofif communication between the air and the soil, culminating 
in a prematurely laid crop, with all its evil consequences. ' 

The quantities of seed suited to this farm are one bushel 
of wheat, six pecks of barley, and two bushels of oats per 
acre. The average quantity of England is, according to 
Mr. Caird (p. 622), wheat three bushels, barley four bushels, 
oats five bushels per imperial acre. 

With high farming I find even my quantities too large in 
certain seasons, and I am, gradually diminishing them. Inde- 
pendently of quality and produce, the mere saving of seed is 
worthy of national consideration, for, according to Mr.Caird's 
reliable statistics (p. 522), the quantities of grain used an- 
nually as seed on the 14,000,000 arable acres of England 
■alone (leaving out Ireland, Scotland, and Wales) are — 

Qrs. 

Wheat 1,231,281 

Barley 708,376 

Oats and rye 1,250,000 

3,239,056 

At present prices these would be worth about £6,500,000, 
and certainly half that amount might be saved, and an 
enormous increase in produce be additionallv obtained. 

British agriculture is so vast, and of such paramount in- 
terest, that when we deal with the 60,000,000 of acres of the 
United Kingdom a single shilling per acre amounts to 
£3,000,000 sterling. 

Taking the landlord's capital as only £20 per acre and 

the tenant's capital as £4 per acre, here is a vast grand total 

of £1,440,000,000, or twice the amount of our National 

J>eht. There is much to be saved and more to be gained by 

treating such a vast interest on commexeVaV ^xmcv^tefl, and 

emancipating it, aa much as possible, £rom \\ie ^«bO«\ft% ^1 



THB FBOFBB QUANTITY OF 8BBD. 57 

old customs and prejudices no longer suited to this age of 
steam-excited progress. 

I am, Sir, your obedient servant, 

J. J. MECHI. 

TiPTRRK Hall, August 23. 

P.S. — This season, so far as this farm is concerned, will be 
a very profitable one. We have just thrashed six acres of 
white wheat ; the produce, six quarters per acre, soldlyesterday 
at 64f . per quarter. Fifty more acres are estimated to pro- 
duce from five to six quarters. Barley, of malting quauty, 
from six to seven quarters ; oats, nine to ten quarters ; and 
beans, seven quarters — thus proving the propriety of the 
quantity of seed previously named for this farm. 



OlTie proper Quantity of Seed, and why Land can never he 
too rich for a Corn Crop, — The proper quantity of seed-corn 
5b dependent upon sou, climate, manurial condition, and 
period of sowing ; therefore no universal rule can be laid 
down. Our farm this year presents many valuable illustra- 
tions on this subject. I have fifty acres of wheat, as thick a 
crop as can be grown from one bushel of wheat per acre, but 
in some places even this is too much seed, for wherever the 
fold remained longer than usual, there, owing to the extra 
manure, the crop is too thick and injuriously laid. In 
another field the three pecks withstood the storm better 
than the four pecks, which were partially laid. The per- 
fection of a wheat-crop is a very thick and full standing or 
leaning crop with long and wide well-filled ears, and large 
kernels. When the heaps of com were laid separately, I 
could at once distinguish the peck an acre from the bushel 
an acre by the superior size of the kernel. The straw I 
could detect from its brighter appearance. The peck of 
wheat per acre (on half an acre as usual) came up a full and 
sufficient plant, but in the spring both it and the thick- 
sown adjoming were nearly destroyed by slug, and neglected 
to be night-limed in time. However, we left the few hope- 
less-looking plants that remained, not believing that they 
could come to much, but now on the portion so saved there 
will be at least four quarters per acre, if ikot \x!kax^>\si ^^sa^ 
great surprise, for there could not \iwie >ofeci\.VJl\.\s^^x^'^si»s^ 
one-fouTtii of the plants that came \re, ox ^q>m\. Vr^ Qj?isix\.^ 



58 FBOFITABLB FABMIN0. 

of seed per acre. It will ripen about a week later than the 
thick sown. In districts where the harvest is naturally late it 
would be desirable to consider the question of earlier sowing, 
or a larger quantity of seed, each farmer determining for 
himself by trying one quarter or half an acre in each field, 
as I did, to arrive at a safe conclusion. I have a very fine 
field of wheat sown in December, after white turnips, which 
followed peas picked for the London market. As it was 
sown so late, we put in five pecks per acre, which was then 
even too much. Four pecks would have been better; the 
ears and kernels would have been larger. My oats with 
two bushels and barley with six pecks are amply thick ; in 
fact, where the land is good the barley is too thick with six 
pecks. Fearful mistakes are made, and heavy losses incurred, 
by many who will continue to put in the absurd quantities- 
three bushels of wheat, four bushels of barley, five to seven 
bushels of oats per acre. Well may such folkssay, " We get 
better barley after wheat than after turnips fed o£^" The more 
luxuriant the soil the less seed should be put in. If I could 
but persuade farmers to make small comparative trials, they 
would soon come to sound conclusions, and we could then 
discuss the matter with just hbpes of agreement on a proper 
comparison of facts, throwing mere prejudices and assump- 
tions to the winds, and putting money in our pockets. This 
is the fourth year of the peck an acre — sown sometimes in 
October and at others in November. It produced — 

In 1864, 7 quarters 2 bashels per acre. 

1866,7 „ 1 
1866, 4i „ 

Let observation and experiment be our guides. They are 
more dependable than either imagination or prejudice. — 
Jul2/, 1867. 



JPractical Observations on Thin Sowing. — ^Every day ap- 
pears to throw new light upon this important subject. As 
we approach nearer to harvest my experiments in this direc- 
tion appear to increase in value. If thin sowing was the 
order of the day, the facts I am about to relate would excite 
no attention ; but agriculture is, in this respect, in a trans- 
ition state, passing from broadcast sowing, an imperfect 
deposit of seed, and poor manuring, to accurate drilling and 
a /orcing with rich manures. The first instance is the one 
/^^^ of wheat per acre which had loeen. t\it©©-iavMcVJaa ^^\,^tl 
oj-Biug (in common with some tlaiclL-aowa. ad^c^xasi^, «sA 



THICK AND THIN SOWING GOMFABSD. 59 

was given up as lost. Strange to say, it has so thickened 
that it was estimated yesterday, by a practical farmer who 
visited my farm, at five quarters per acre. I really think 
that it will approach that quantity. In another case, where 
three pecks were drilled, the acre so drilled now surpasses 
and overtops the four pecks adjoining it. Those have stout 
stems, and can stand up firmly — the thicker sown gives way, 
and is partially laid. Although it is a saying that ** the laid 
crops never ruin the farmer," I am yearly more and more 
convinced that it is a very unprofitable and improper state 
of things, and that it ought to be mitigated or averted by 
adapting the quantity of seed to the nature and manurial 
conoition of the soil, having regard also to climate and usual 
time of harvest. It is very interesting to watch the progress 
of a thin-sown portion of wheat or other cereal, sown in the 
same field at the same time, manured in the same way, and 
growing side by side with its thicker sown neighbour. At 
first all seems doubt and almost despair ; gradually during and 
after spring there is a thickening and an improvement. Still, 
to all appearance, it can never rival its neighbour; but at 
length, and within three weeks of harvest, its neighbour 
stands nearly still, and up goes in triumph the crop which 
has caused us, during its growth, so many doubts and misgiv- 
ings. It reminds me forcibly of the last short space between 
the distance aud winning post. There is longer endurance 
and less exhaustion — the last few strides win the race. So 
it is with the thin-sown crop — ^it endures and advances longer 
than its neighbour, and yet there is barely four to six days' 
difference in the fitness for cutting. Thick sowers are gene- 
rally very much out in their csdculation or estimate of a 
growing thin-sown wheat crop. They measure it, as it were, 
by their own crops, which, by crowding, produce small ears 
and little kernels, whereas the thin-sown have much larger 
grains and many more of them in each ear. Surely aiter 
my prolonged trials and published results, my brother agri- 
culturists will, for their own sakes, try comparative experi- 
ments, and so put money in their pockets. It does seem 
indeed surprising that two quarts of seed per acre (the quan- 
tity left by the slug according to our estimate) should pro- 
duce from four and a half to five quarters per acre. When- 
ever farmers have a new and costly sort of seed, they 
generally put one kernel in a hole in good garden ^ouna^ 
and "get the largest croD they evet ^^^T iksA^^si®*^^''^ 
pmnjr a alng-eaten. piece that 'was coii^etKafe^NA's^^'^ -^^^^aMsw- 
ing its owner by its surpxiaing pTom^a^w— J'«'^'3 "SR^^^S^^v . 



60 PBOFITABLB FABHINO. 

The Hfippy Medium in Sowing. — Thia must ever vary, 
according to circamstances of soil, climate, and manurial or 
natural degree of fertility. The crops on my farm afford 
interesting and instructive evidence on this matter. Is it 
not strange that agriculturists generally do not make com- 
parative trials with a view to a better profit? Are we 
always to do exactly as our forefathers did, regardless of 
altered conditions P The results of experiments, continued 
for several years in various fields, confirm me in the opinion 
that thick-sowing causes a heavy loss ; that very great com 
crops cannot, as a rule, be grown where corn is too thickly 
sown ; and that thin-sowing, or, rather, proper sowing, pro- 
duces not only more straw (taken by weight), but of better 
(quality than thick-sown. Much larger crops of grain are 
in my case, reliably obtained by thin-sowing, and it is 
brighter and of better quality than from the thick-sown. I 
know that this is contrary to the general belief; but that be- 
lief is too often, if not always, formed about a crop which was 
not thinly sown, but had become thin and mildewed by want 
of drainage, imperfect tillage, or some defect in management. 
So marked is the superior quality of the thin-sown, that, 
when ripe, both the corn and straw are readily distinguish- 
able from the thick-sown, viz., the straw in tne sheaf and 
the corn in the heap. To produce extreme crops the heads 
must be long, thick, wide, and of course heavy, supported by 
a strong, reedy, glossy stem ; the kernels large, plump, and 
bright. We cannot have these peculiar characteristics in a 
thick-sown crop, but the reverse. Instead of curved or 
leaning crops just at or before harvest, the thick-sown come 
to a premature standstill and an early horizontal downfall, 
resulting in an inferior sample both of com and straw, and 
only a moderate crop. I speak now of highly-manured soil. 
On half-starved, ill-tilled, weedy soils no amount of seed will 
produce a luxuriant or laid crop. This season I shall drill 
three pecks per acre on my clover leas, as I find one bushel 
too much with my farming. I shall have one or two half- 
acres dibbled as usual with half a peck, or at the rate of 
one peck per acre, being convinced from experience that if 
the plant stands it will as usual yield better than any larger 
quantity. The piece on which only a quarter of a peck 
remained (a peck per acre having been dibbled and come up 
well, but three-fourths of it destroyed by slug) promises to 
jri'eJd from 4^ to 5 quarters per acre. 1 shall continue to 
ar//J, as usual, 6 peeks of barley per acre, my cto^ o^ \Xi\a 
J^oar being very Bne and bright, with \on^ ew^ wi^ \^T?,«k 
kernels, the ears from 14 to 17 kernels on e«Lc\i«i^«. \\.*\^, 



CAUSE OF LAID C£OFS. 61 

however, in many places too thick and laid. I shall also drill, 
as usual, 2 bushels of oats per acre — my regular quantity ; 
which I find more than ample. I have two fields of rivett 
wheat on heavy land, sown after white wheat with one 
bushel per acre. They promise abundantly ; one field was 
not sown until December. The ears are very large and long ; 
most of them will contain from 80 to 100 kernels. How is 
it, then, that by thick-sowing we only get, as an average of 
the kingdom, a small portion of one ear (nine kernels) for 
each kernel sown P On my thin-sown I find from 20 to 35 
ears from each kernel, each ear having probably 40 to 50 
kernels. I commend rivett wheat rather than barley for 
heavy land. It comes to a much greater money value, being 
better suited to such soils. The gain in price, arising from 
superior quality and thin-sowing, was illustrated in 1861 as 
follows : — my barley crops, sown with 6 pecks, produced 5 
quarters, and sold for 52s. per quarter. My neighbour's 
yield was the same as mine, but was of grinding quality, and 
only realized 37s. 6d. per quarter. He sowed 2| or 3 bushels. 
I could multiply such instances. We begin harvest on the 
5th instant. On highly-manured and well-farmed drained 
clays, the wheat and barley crops are much laid ; in fact, so 
unusually fiat, that I was induced to examine into the cause, 
and find that it is owing to the stems, where they spring 
from the root, having become softened, with a tendency to 
rottenness or decay. This has, no doubt, been caused by the 
frequent and heavy rains, the absence of sun, and the shading 
by dense crops of straw. Where less seed was sown, or the 
land less highly manured, the crops stand better, the wind 
and sun having had more free access to dry the soil. We are 
cutting white wheat to-day (August 5). I feel convinced 
that oats will finish up and dry better in the sheaf than lying 
flat upon the damp ground. My crops of every description 
promise to be most abundant, and in advantageous contrast 
with the half or three-quarter crops on undrained soils. 
They are also in a more forward condition. The want of 
drainage on certain soils will be a cause of serious loss. My 
harvest is let to my men at 61. each man, taking 10 acres. 
This is 12«. per acre to cut (with the bagging-hook), cart and 
stack. As I have 56 acres of wheat (estimated at 5^ quarters 
per acre), 11 acres of strong barley, and 8 acres of oats, the 
job will be a heavy one, owing to so much com having been laid 
and twisted by the strong winds. The b^wi'^ V^ ^<st«^'^5^ 
be let separately, and our men get ^s. ^d. ^«t ^'ct^^^t. <swJ^'^ 
and stacking them. The bean cxo^nvV^X^xoX^^WSlI'^^'^ ^s^^msc^'^' 
per acre. 



62 FBOFITABLB FABMINO. 

The Causes and Consequences of Laid Crops.^-Ji I am 
not mistaken, we shall have to regret the present laid and 
twisted condition of our corn crops. It is a common sajing 
that, ''the laid crop never ruins the farmer," because it is an 
evidence of rich manuring, and plenty of forcing power in 
the soil. A Lincolnshire farmer, the other day, walking 
over my farm, regretted that my crops were not laid enough ; 
his own had been, for some time, as fiat as if a roller had 
passed over them. The important question, however, is, 
how, or rather, in what way is a crop laid P In a fine dry 
season, when the heads are long, broad, thick, heavy, and 
nearly ripe, and the straw-like reeds, I delight to see them 
" bowed " over, the stems forming a succession of arches, but 
that is a very difierent afiair from the laying of the present 
season. In the former case the lowest portion of the stem, 
from its junction with the crown of the root to the first knot 
(about two to three inches) would be hard, stiff*, and glassy — 
a sort of erect abutment for the reedy, arched superstruc- 
ture ; but this year that portion of the stem will be found in 
an exactly opposite condition, viz., soft, spongy, weak, and 
brown with rottenness or partial decay ; so that the stems 
fall horizontally fiat (not arched), and tlus takes place pre- 
maturely, and oefore the ear has become full and weighty ; 
consequently the kernel will be so imperfectly developed as 
to become shrivelled, lean, and in many cases worthless. In 
fact, by the softening and rotting of the stem the circulation 
of the juices in the plant is impeded or suspended, and the 
crop partially destroyed. I am afraid this is the case over a 
very extensive area. This rotting has been caused, no doubt, 
by the excess of moisture and a low temperature. The heavy 
soil remained too long in a soaked condition around the stem 
of the plant where it issues from the earth. The air was 
not warm enough to absorb the moisture from the surface of 
the earth. Light porous soils suffer much less. It is especi- 
ally with thickly-sown crops that the mischief is greatest. A 
rush of grass-liKe close-packed stems and leaves, win, weakly, 
and early sloping, formed a canopy, and shut out the action 
of the sun's rays and passing winds, and prevented the 
evaporation of water from the soil ; not only, therefore, was 
the surface kept wet, but the atmosphere between the sur- 
face and the earth and the under portion of the dosely 
packed fiag or dense canopy of plants was like the air of a 
aamp cellar, where mildew or fungus finds the proper con- 
dition for its growth. Therefore I am not at all surprised to 
hear of suffering by mildew, "whicli is t\iis ^e«&OTL ^ o^iossi^xi 



CBOFS FBOM DBAINED AND UNDBAINBD LAND. 63 

complaint. The pasture-like appearance of a thick-sown 
com crop in its early growth exposes it to a tremendous risk 
in a wet season on a stiff soil ; and even with one bushel of 
wheat, six pecks of barley, or two bushels of oats, some of 
my crops, especially wheat, are too thick where I manured 
heavily. The great advantasre of thin sowing is, that while 
you have a griater weight of straw and larger qnantity of 
com, the stems and heads are large, few, and strong and 
reedy, leaving room for the circulation of air and consequent 
drying of the soil. Especially is this necessary on heavy 
tenacious clays. The air and surface of the ground are thus 
permitted to come into contact instead of being separated by 
a flaggy, weak, crowded, trembling mass of stems. As 1 
mentioned in a former paper, where folks will not sow thin, 
they should, if they farm high, do like my Suffolk friend, 
that is, "flag," or rather cut off the flag leaves of their 
wheat, oats, and barley, and thus permit the circulation of 
air among their crops. This question of thinner sowing is, 
like the sewage question, gradually forcing its way to a happy 
consummation. The sooner the better. Holders of non- 
drained lands have*got a severe dressing this wet season. The 
plant-pot has been so continually full and running [over, 
owing to there being no hole in the bottom, that plants have 
languished and rotted. The difference in several wheat- 
crops under my observation will be something like two 
quarters per acre in favour of the well-drained soil. At 
present high prices the money difference is therefore from 
£7 to £8 per acre. The drained land crops are nearly a 
week forwarder than the undrained, a matter of great mi- 
portance this late season. While wheat-stems soften and 
suffer from so much moisture, the bean-stalks, as hard and 
thick as a walking-stick, rejoice in such moisture. We com- 
menced wheat-cutting on the 5th. My crops were all stand- 
ing and as level as a rule a fortnight ago ; therefore, although 
partially laid, they will suffer little, because the kernel was 
well formed and nearly matured. Where the wheat stands, 
the stem. between the crown of the root and the first knot 
wiU be found dry, hard, stiff, and glassy. — August, 1867. 

The JPecJc of Wheat per Acre sown the third week in 
November looked like a fallow all winter, but is now, after 
hoeing, branching abundantly, and my labourers predict that 
it will be as good or better than the rest of the fleld ^os^frc^. 
thickly with one bushel per acre. "Evetj ^^m "Y ^qtw V^ ^is^. 
acre with half a peck of wheat, in tua tdl\^^\» ^1 ^'^Kv^^t 



64 FBOFITABLB FABUING. 

sown crop, putting it in the same day and nnder the same 
circumstances in the various fields, as they come in rotation. 
By this means I arrive at safe conclusions, and I would 
strongly recommend my agricultural friends to follow my 
example by thus experimenting on a small and uninjurious 
scfJe. It would abolish many prejudices, and they are 
bound, for their own interests, to ascertain the most profit- 
able quantity of seed. My four years' trials have resulted 
in 58, 57, 36, 36 bushels of wheat per acre, the two first 
good wheat years, the two latter unfavourable. I still con- 
tinue to drill 4 pecks of wheat, 6 pecks of barley, 8 pecks of 
oats, as my general sowing — a trifie more on the light land ; 
but I am getting more and more convinced that, with high 
clean farming and the drill, we may, in Essex, reduce our 
wheat to 2 pecks. On light lands we need not fear wire- 
worm, if we use 6 bushels of salt per acre about February, 
or early in March. By having our drill cups and wheels 
arranged like those of Mr. Hallett, at Brighton, we can put 
in very small quantities of seed. It does amaze me to read 
that 7 bushels per acre of oats are still sown in Scotland, and 
that there sowers pride themselves upon putting in only 6| 
bushels ! I presume that this is done broadcast, and the 
measure a Scotch acre. I am satisfied, however, that such a 
system can never result in such crops as we generally grow 
on this farm, say from 8 to 13 quarters of black oats per 
English acre. — April, 1868. 



THIN SOWING— HAVE YOU TRIED ITP 

If not, pray do so, especially if you are a lover of the 

£. 8, d. No man should venture to say that a certain thing 

will not answer, unless he can prove that it has failed. A 

mere supposition or imagining m such matters has no value 

whatever. I have often brought colour into the cheeks of 

agriculturists who stated posinvely that thin-sowing would 

not answer, by mildly asking whether they had ever tried it P 

My object in now writing is to say that my farm will be 

open, to any agriculturist (without an introduction) who may 

desire, between this time and the 1st of August, to see the 

peck an acre, and the general crop of wheat from a bushel 

per acre. I do this, at some personal inconvenience, on 

public grounds, to call attentioii to tlie BetvoxiA ocnd damaging 

waste of seed that still clings to \xb, a leYvc ol ^Jti^Vo^SsaaXi 

syatem, before drills were invented. 



THE FSCE FSB ACRE, 65 

There is notiiinfjf more easy than to try (as I have done) 
half an acre or an acre with a diminished quantity of seed, 
80 as to deduce a comparative result. After some fifteen 
years of such experiments I have come to the conclusion 
that thick-sowing in wheat, barley and oats, not only wastes 
much seed, but inflicts a much heavier loss by preventing the 
full development of the plant, and thus greatly diminishing 
the crop in quantity and lessening its quality. 

FaJera quite comprehend the nec^sity for giyin^ ample 
room for the growth of their root crops, but it does not 
appear to me that they perfectly understand the nature of 
the wheat and other grain plants. I have heard many say 
that they sow thick U> prevent tillering and to smother the 
weeds. Although I do not recommend a general sowing of 
80 small a quantity as a peck an acre, I find that it produces 
an ample and superior crop, and it especially illustrates the 
natural habit of our grain plants, as may be now seen on 
half an acre in one of my wheat fields ; the rest of the field, 
right and left, being a splendid crop, from one bushel per 
acre — ^my usual quantity. Both thick and thin were sown, or 
rather drilled and dibbled, on the 20th of November, which 
would be naturally considered much too late for a peck per 
acre. Well, up it came, a single stem or bodkin from each 
dibble-hole, and we could only see that there was any plant 
by placing our heads low to the ground and taking a hori- 
zontal view. In fact, it looked like a bare fallow from 
Kovember to April, the rest of the field (one bushel per 
acre) looking thick and luxuriant. 

In April and early in May it still looked thin, but the 
original bodkin gradually surrounded itself with from thirty 
to fifty other or juvenile bodkins, shooting out horizontally. 
Well might the able and amusing correspondent exclaim, 
"Where can the wheat have come from?" Now (on the 
20th of June) the half-acre strip of fallow has become a fine 
standing crop of wheat, with ears and kernels 50 per cent, 
larger than its neighbour. I have been amused by saying to 
my farm visitors, " You will soon come to the peck an acre," 
and several walked past it without distinguishmg it from its 
competitors on either side. They evidently looked for a thin 
drop, which is not now to be found. I could, in the course 
of several years of experiment, have won a small fortune in 
wa^rs. £ut is it not strange that among some 400,000 
British farmers, it is Mr. Mechi only t\i«iiV. \.YVfc% wA^^^^'t^^ 
these important expenments P Can. it "Vi^ ». TQ»X5wt ^1\xiS&- 
ference whether in seed alone we i^ay \Q«. ^«t «*st^ \aat» 'st. 



66 



FSOFITABLE FABMINO. 



less P The field in which this peck an acre is sown will pro- 
bably produce six quarters of wheat, perhaps even more, so 
that the poor peck has a strong competitor. Which is to be 
the winner — the peck or the bushel P We shall all know 
some day. In 1864 and 1865 the peck gave a crop of seven 
quarters two bushels, and seven quarters one bushel per 
acre — the best on the farm, and the finest sample, for I can 
distinguish the heap of thin-sown grain at once by its supe- 
rior size and quality. 

Farmers often say, "Oh! a thin crop produces a bad 
sample," and they draw this conclusion from a crop that has 
wasted away from thick-sowing, or some other cause ; but 
whenever a farmer plants in a hole a kernel of some valued 
new sort he always gets a wonderful crop. 

I have often heard it said that the higher the farming the 
more seed it will carry out. This is a great mistake, and 
this is why so much barley and oats are early laid and 
ruined. I have a field of barley after wheat on a very poor 
light field. I always sow six pecks of barley and eight 
pecks of oats. The barley came up admirably, but harrow* 
mg in the Italian rye-grass smothered and destroyed half of 
it, and we gave it up for lost. It is now, however, a respect- 
able crop, futhough it wants a shower. 

A wheat-plant has no greater enemy than another wheat- 
plant, and whenever you see two trees growing side by side 
they turn away from each other, and make few or no 
branches on the side next each other, however rich the 
land may be. The quantity of seed sown is (according to 
Mr. Caird, p. 522) :— 





Acres. 


Seed. 


Produce after 
dedactioir seed. 


Wheat 

Barley 

Oats and rye . . 
Beans and peas. . 


3,420,750 
1,410.760 
2,000,000 
1,139,000 


Qaarters. 
1,281,281 

708,375 
1,250,000 

509,500 


10,250,230 
0,021,187 
9*760,000 
3,701,750 



This is for England alone, leaving out Wales, Scotland, and 

Ireland. The value of the seed- wheat alone would last year 

be between four and five millions sterling, and as I only sow 

one bushel per acre, or one-third of the quantity namea, the 

saving wouiA, in wheat-seed alone, be more than three 

miUiona Bterling I The matter \& wottlci^ ol \.Vi!& ex^riment 

and dae consideration of the Briti&Vv agncvitoM^i. Xa^x^vxi^ 



THIN- SOWING. 67 

to Mr. Caird's estimate the return is only an increase of eight 
for one ; in my own case it is quite forty for one, and in the 
case of the peck per acre 160 for one. 

It has offcen surprised me that nearly every kernel ve- 
getates, which is contrary to the opinion expressed by many. 
As we only put one kernel in each hole, we are enabled to 
see where any failure takes place. This is the fifth year of 
the peck an acre experiment, and it certainly promises to be 
an abundant crop. Farmers who sow two and a half to three 
bushels of wheat per acre and five bushels of oats, seem sur- 
prised at the level or even appearance of the heads of com. 
An up-and-down crop, like a mixture of tall Grenadiers and 
tiny Siflemen, is a sure consequence and evidence of a grand 
battle in which the weaker have gone to the wall. 

Mr. Hallett is doing an incalculable amount of good by 
laying down rules for the thin-planting of his wheat and 
otlier grain.— -c/un^ 24, 1868. 

THIN-80W1KG. 

The accomnanyine letter will no doubt be interestine 
at this perioa of wheat-sowing. It is from a practice 
farmer, who for many years has occupied a 700 acre farm 
in West Norfolk. My oak field (one oushel seed) yielded 
seven quarters two bushels per measured acre of nne white 
wheat (club-headed rough cnafi) ; sold for 60«. per quarter. 
My whole wheat crop (seventy-three acres) will average six 
quarters per acre. The peck an acre yields two bushels per 
acre less than the adjoinmg one bushel, which was over six 
quarters of white wheat per acre. The peck an acre was 
put in as late as the 20th or November, whicii I do not recom- 
mend, but was determined to put it in the same day as the 
Teat.— October, 1868. 

The following is the letter of Mr. Mechi's corre- 
spondent : — 

"Oct. 13, 1868. 

" At the request of my brother, I write to inform yoa of the resolt of my 
expeiieDce in thin-sowing for wheat last year. From what I saw on your 
fiunn, and what I read in yoar publication, I was induced to try 4 pecks per 
acre in four different fields. As you may suppose, my Udtourers laughed at 
the idea of it. I need not tell you that the rtdges sdected for the purpose 
were very visible all winter, even before you got near the field, looked very 
thin. As soon as the plant began to grow in the spring, it told us what it 
was going to do. I had a fewfiriends to look at it in the summer; and I think 
I may say that every one was in flavour of the thin sowing, both as to straw 
and com— that is to say, 4 pecks against 7 pecks per acre, whlc^ V& tdi:) ^oaiQaS^L 
quantity. I had that which grew in one field cut\>3 V\a«\t, «^c^ ^« «£^^icE&sk% 
ridge, each containing 3 roods and 36 percViea. TVve 4 ^pnc^% v« *«» ^^\^^ 
13 coomba and a pecka. The 7 pecks per acre gwe tna \\ cswsBsfc*, ^\»(MgoR»'» 

and 3 pecka, I ahaii try it again this year .^* 

F 2 



68 FBOFITABLB FABMIN0. 

JIfr. J, P. Duff*8 Letter on Thin Seeding, — A ^ood 
deal has been lately written on the subject of thin- 
seeding of wheat and other grain ; and the system 
of thin-sowing has been strongly advocated by that well- 
known and progressive farmer, Mr. Mechi, of Tiptree, 
and other writers in the agricultural publications. I have 
given a good deal of consideration to the subject, and, from 
observing the wheat plant for several years, come to the con- 
clusion that thin-sowing is essential to its attaining a proper 
development and yieldinof a maximum return. So satisned 
had I become of this, that I tried an experiment on two statute 
acres, the particulars and result of which I now publish for 
the consideration of the members of our Society: — Crop of 
1867 was potatoes. The two acres were ploughed on the 2nd 
and 3rd October in one day and a half. October 3 : har- 
rowed in half a day. October 5: sowed with machine 
adapted for dibbling in drills, 7 inches apart, in three hours, 
by two men with pair of horses ; the quantity sown, 2 pecks, 
or 1 peck per acre. October 18 : wheat coming up. 1868.— 
March 21 : sowed ; mixed light manure, costing £1. Ss, 6d» 
per acre. May 11 : weeded field in one day by one man and 
three women. June 13 : wheat field fully shot. July 27 : 
Cut with machine ; bound and set up in six hours by five 
men and four boys. August 4: carted in half a day.» 
August 10 : thrashed by machine in half a day ; and gave a 
return of 97 bushels of 66 lb. per bushel, or per acre 48J 
bushels of 661b., being 45^ market bushels of 70 lb ; besides 
about 4 bushels of light wheat suitable for pig-feeding. Tins 
would give, per Cheshire acre, which is the best understood 
in this district : sowed, half a measure per acre ; return, 102 
measures. I have not yet had the straw weighed, but it will 
yield a full average quantity, and it is so thick and strong 
that it would have stood in any weather. Many of the 
plants produced upwards of thirty stalks from one grain, and 
the heads were 5 to 6 inches in length, the largest containing 
nearly 100 grains. I have compared my return with that of 
Mr. Mechi, as lately published oy him, and find, that though 
he advocates sowing a peck per acre, he this season sowed a 
bushel, and his return was, per acre, 50 bushels of 63 lb., 
equal to 43 of 70 lb., showing li bushel in measure more 
than mine, but 2^ lb. bushels in weight less. I have heard 
it objected to thin sowing that from the want of the shelter 
of tbickneBB, the crop would be late, which, in ordinary 
seasons would be an important coix8\d€r&\i\oii,W\iTCLVQA was 
oae of the £rat ripe in the diBttvct, 1 am %o >u\is«Qi\jj^'5 



SMALL FABMBB8. 69 

satisfied with the result of this experiment that I have this 
season sown one field, which is not in very good condition, 
with half a bushel per acre, and another, in good condition, 
with less than a quarter of a bushel per acre. I believe that 
this system requires only to be tried to be generally adopted. 
It is a subject of national importance, as the amount of grain 
now wasted in over-sowing is enormous, as the following 
calculations will show : — ^By the Board of Trade returns, just 
published, the acreage under wheat in Great Britain this 
year was 3,646,260 acres, the average sowing on which would 
be at least two bushels and a half (allowing half a bushel, 
or double mine), would give 2 bushels per acre saved, or 
7,202,520 at 9s, per bushel— £3,281,434. I trust that the 
result of my experiment may induce others to try similar 
ones, which I would recommend being tried on a small scale 
first, and I shall be glad that they find, as I have done, that 
they can use less seed and have larger returns ; but it must 
be borne in mind that late sowing and light or bad-conditioned 
land will require thicker seeding than high- conditioned land 
sowed early. — J". P. Duff, Lydiate, Ormskirk, October 3. 
[Addressed to the members of the Ormskirk Society.] 

Small Farmers have no Chance now! — I am often told this, 
but I deny the correctness of the proposition. It is true that 
if a farmer holds 150 to 200 acres of inferior land with an 
insufficient capital of £5 or £6 per acre, he is likely to suc- 
cumb to competition; but if a capital of £15 per acre is 
judiciously invested on such a farm, he may hold his own 
against the largest occupier. I speak practically on this 
point, for my own farm is only of IvO acres, and my rent is 
40f . per acre on 130 acres of it. The fact is, we are only just 
awakening to the absolute necessity for intensifying farming, 
both by tne landlord and tenant. It is not now so much a 
question of rent as of manure ; that is the great want of 
British agriculture, and it is that want that keeps agricul- 
tural produce at a minimum, and agriculture poor and 
humble. Seeing that our farmers multiply rapidly and that 
our acres have no children, the question of diminishing the 
size of our holdings should be entertained and commended 
by landowners. I know so many instances where tenants 
have been ruined by changing from a small farm to a large 
one that it is to me a painful subject. Their capital, barely 
sufficient for the smaller, became so thitily ^^x^^^ xi:^^-^*^^ 
larger farm, that care, anxiety, and imu «^^^^ii^ \«^q;^^^* 
lam afraid we are not at all agreed «a \.o Vs^'sJ^Na ^^^^^"^^"^ 



70 FBOFITABLE FABUINO. 

capital for the proper and profitable farming of poor, heavy 
land. This, surely, might oe worth the consideration of our 
landowners, and no doubt does in many cases receive it ; but 
a great mass of attachments to old customs must be broken 
down, and new ideas prevail, ere the proper figure per acre 
is arrived at either by tenant or landlord. I am not so 
Utopian as to suppose that all this necessary change can take 
place at once. A nation cannot give up its former and 
established notions except by slow degrees, and after much 
examination and discussion. But mighty steam has so 
changed the general circumstances of the country that agri- 
culture must really move on a little faster, or it will be, as it 
has been already, left in the rear of the forward rush of 
steam-excited progression. In another paper on "Losing 
Money by Farming," I shall more fully enter upon the 
details of this question of capital and small farms. I need 
hardly advert to the necessity for a concurrent action, as be- 
tween landlord and tenant, on the question of draining, 
leases, &c. — July^ 1867. 

London Horses, — The value of straw as a feeding substance 
was never better proved than by the following fact : — ^A firm 
having a large number of heavy waggon horses had frequent 
occasion for the veterinary, until they were recommended to 
mix a certain portion of fine-cut straw with the clover-hay. 
This has been practised now for some years, and their bill 
for horse-doctoring is at a minimum. The partner of the 
firm who told me this said how advantageous it was not to 
be deprived, as they formerly were, of the use of several 
horses—to say nothing of the saving in expense and loss. 
The fact is, the food was too rich or too mucilaginous, for I 
have often been told that fine-cut hay, unmixed with straw- 
chaff, balls in the stomach, and thus is, I suppose, deprived 
of the action of the gastric juices. We know that too suc- 
culent or rich grasses are injurious, and no doubt straw-chaff 
mixed with it acts mechanically, if not chemically, with 
advantage. It would be well for our agricultural friends to 
know that for several thousand horses belonging to the 
•General Omnibus Company the food is all passed through 
the chaff-cutter, with, I believe, a certain proportion of 
•straw. While spring grazing our bullocks on tares, we mix 
straw with it in their early growth, but as they advance to 
£owenDg and podding this is not required, because there is 
much wheat and oats grown witYi ui\%, ^\x\QVi aets inter- 
mjxed OD paaBing through the cTnaff-maciime. — JulyA^^l* 



SHBBPFOLD V, FABM-YABD MANUBE. 71 

The Sheepfold versus Farm-yard Manure, — "There is 
nothing like the sheepfold.** How frequently we are told 
this by practical men. '* The treading the land does so much 
good.** Yes, if it is very light land ; but if it is heavy land 
the sheep*treading is most injurious. It is not the sheep's 
feet that do the good, but the sheep's tails. But I wish to 
show to my brother farmers in this paper that there is some- 
thing[ like the sheepfold, and something quite eoual to it, and 
that is the voidances of well-fed cattle on pavea floors under 
cover, carried immediately from the shed to the field. I am 
going to prove why this must be eq^ual to the sheepfold, and 
why the ordinary farm-yard manure is so inferior to the sheep- 
fold ; and after this I expect that both landlords and tenants 
will gradually, and as soon as may be, discard open and un- 
paved farm-yards as destructive of farm profits. We are all 
naturally so attached to things that have existed from time 
immemorial, and to which we have been accustomed from 
our youth, that it would be unreasonable to expect a ** sudden 
conversion *' of a whole nation of agriculturists, but I have 
great faith in the common sense of my countrymen when 
they are brought to deal with comparative facts ; so I shall 
expect that in a generation or two (which is not a long period 
in the history of a nation) open farm-yards and unpaved 
floors will have become " the light of other days," and that the 
" shedfold'* will be then considered equal to the " sheepfold," 
But let us come to the facts. When sheep are on land, the 
whole of their voidances are at once appropriated by the 
soil ; nothing is wasted : there is no washing, drying, man- 
gling, or turning over, and twice moving or carting, with 
weeks or months of exposure. The soluble portions are 
all washed into the soil, and not down the ditches. There 
is much less manual and horse labour, and wear and tear of 
carting. The reverse of all this takes place with the respected, 
old, open, unpaved farm-yard, and the imtroughed buildings 
around it. Here it is all washing, drying, and mangling, 
sopping up heav^ rainfalls with mops in the shape of huge 
waggon-loads of valuable straw, which should be used as 
food rather than as mops. How often, and only recently, 
have I seen farmers letting ofi* the strong tea into the ditches, 
owing to the heavy rain having rendered the farm-yard im- 
passable or impracticable ; and sJter all this the tea-leaves are 
carted to what is mistakenly called a dung-heap, and, after a 
time, duly turned over, refilled and recarted, and then &^i:<a^ 
upon the land. All this is reaWy a.\>\\X«t %»^MYt^ o^ ^^r^ss^ 
tural eommerciality. The real caoaea wA Oo\^^\» ^*^ *^^^ 



72 PBOFITABLE FABMIliO. 

mistaken, cosily, and injurious manipulation were no doubt 
originally two-fold ; viz., to keep the cattle dry, and to rot the 
straw, lout the practice must be altered now. The time 
will come when farmers shall as soon think of treading their 
oil-cake as their straw under foot, seeing that it has a much 
greater value as food than as litter. There is no straw in the 
sheepfold, yet no farmer ever complains that his land is 
insufficiently manured by the sheepfold. I do not believe 
that farmers generally know that for every pound of solid 
Toidance made by the animal there are 12 or 13 lb. of liquid, 
and that nearly all the value of the manure is in the liquid ; 
the insoluble matter of the solid being comparatively worth- 
less. Well may they prefer the sheepfold to the old open 
farm-yard, where not only so much runs away, but also 
where such precious fluid sinks into the floor or ground. 
But see how economical the covered shed is, both in time and 
money. The accumulated voidances of 20 bullocks (equal 
to 140 sheep) for two months may be placed on the land at 
once, and spread ready for ploughing in at a trifling cost. 
1 am now putting it on for cabbage after tares, and it will 
beat any guano or artificial manure. It is, in fact, the cattle- 
fold. Better still is the cattle manure from under the sparred 
floors without any straw ; that is the stufl" we want plenty 
of to make great crops. I claim no merit, and I make no 
apology for so constantly " pitching into " ancient agriculture, 
or rather its erroneous practices. If I had been bred a 
farmer, I should, no doubt, have done as other farmers do ; 
but having been well shaken in the commercial blanket before 
I entered into farming, I take a commercial view of its pro- 
ceedings, and come to my work free and unfettered by the 
trammels of antiquated customs and prejudices. I know 
that some agriculturists will be angry with me ; but what I 
commend I practise ; and my sole oDJect in making public 
those of my views which I have found profitable, is a sincere 
desire to benefit British agriculture and agriculturists, and 
thus to provide more cheap and abundant food for my fellow- 
countrymen. — July, 1867. 

Wireworm^ Dochs, and Weeds.'^On light lands look out now 
for wireworm, and salt the land. On examining my barley, 
which was just pushing its first roots, we found, as I ex- 
pected, no end of wire worms ready to attack the shoot when 
it appeared, and, as usual, I sowea to-day six bushels of salt 
per acre, which I have always found a eexl^im cure, Whe- 
ther it kills them or causes tnem to leave 1 <:wi\io\. ^m« ^1 



SLUG AND WIB£WOBH. 73 

wheat on the light land is also salted. I now never fear the 
wireworm. I found some juveniles, in families of three, 
perfectly white, and as thin as a needle, but sufficiently dis- 
posed to activity. We have no slug this year, to our sur- 
prise, for the land was full of them last year. A friend tells 
me>that he has found a top-dressing of guano causes them 
either to leave or to die. Our women, having pulled up all 
the groundsel, &c., from the clover, are now spudding out 
the young docks, which already show their heads in the com. 
This is a profitable field operation. We are also hoeing our 
wheat, especially where bluck grass shows itself on the heavy 
land. A neighbouring farmer hoed a 15-acre wheat-field three 
times at a cost of 10«. per acre ; one acre he left unheeded. He 
was so ashamed of this acre as the season advanced that he 
sent in men and women to puU out such weeds as they could 
get at, at a cost of 6s, per acre. This acre was thra8he4 
separately, and yielded eight bushels less than the rest of 
the field, so that by saving 5s. a loss of £3 was incurred. I 
call this agricultural suicide ; and yet what extensive tracts 
sufier to a like extent by the foolish saving of labour ! Gar- 
rett's horse-hoe will have an active time of it on my 73 acres 
of wheat.— JfarcA, 1868. 

Slug and Wireworm,'--l{ an accurate sum total could 
be made of all the damage and loss occasioned by those two 
pests to British agriculture, it would be a frightful amount. 
The moist season of 1866 produced slugs in abundance, and 
now another showery season threatens still further to multi- 
ply their number. They swarm in our tare ground and 
clovers, therefore we should take steps for protecting our 
future wheat crops. As soon as my clovers are folded of, I 
shall night lime them — that is, sow four bushels of fresh- 
slaked lime at night, and if the first dose does not kill them 
shall repeat the operation — taking care to sow the lime 
against the wind to prevent them hearing you advance. I 
found this a certain remedy in the early spring. The lan- 
tern will show you that the lime falling on the slug at 
once turns him up and kills him. It is of no use liming 
by daylight, for then they are all safely ensconced under 

f round, having feasted on your crops during the night, 
presume they have a sense of danger, for they either 
die or depart after the night-sowing of lime. As to wire- 
worm, they are also easily got rid of» Sow %vs.Vivis^^ 
of salt per acre broadcast on t\i© «>ail«Le^» ^^^ *Oass^ ^^ 
either die or depart, I cannot Bay 'w\i\c\i, \X» ^^ ^ st«\.V2ii^ 



74 FBOFITABLE FABMING. 

cure. In some cases of very light land it may be neces- 
sary to repeat the dose, bat i have always found that 
' quantity sufficient — wireworms never infest heavy lands. 
As soon as you miss a few blades of wheat or barley, 
sow the salt at once, or you will be too late, for the 
plants only show that their stem has been destroyed a.fter 
a day or two. The early spring is generally the time of 
danger and mischief. Some of our light Tiptree lands axe 
especially subject to the wireworm pest, but I never fear 
them now. salt is a certain cure, so is rape-cake— or the 
two combined. — July^ 1867. 

P.S. — Slugs only come out of the ground in mild moist 
nights. On this subject I cannot do better than quote 
from Mr. John Large s valuable book, *' Secrets of Farm- 
ing." At page 40 he says, " When you are troubled with 
many slugs, get some good fresh lime (it ought to be in 
damp weather if possible), and sow it the same night, at 
about two bushels per acre. If the wind is in the west, 
which very likely it will be if the weather is damp, begin 
sowing the east side. Sow up and down from north to south, 
and finish the west, or they will find out the lime before it reaches 
them strong enough to destroy them. If there are many 
slugs on vour clover ley intended for wheat, you should sow 
the lime before jou plough it, and sow again before you put 
in your wheat, if there are many left." 

DacJcs after a iSAower.— There is nothing so good for a 
farmer's health and pocket as early rising. During summer 
I can seldom sleep after five, so from early dawn I enjoy the 
then exquisitely pure and wholesome atmosphere, and return 
to an eight o'clock breakfast with an almost ravenous appe- 
tite. How instructive to an inquiring and observing mind 
are those early hours I and, looking at the ducks, t how 
absurd it appears that man should dread the feathered tribe 
on his cultivated fields ! They are his very best friends, and 
this conclusion grows stronger upon me as I watch their 
operations and habits. As soon as the poultry door is 
opened, away they go to the fields, and I now see a flock of 
juvenile ducklings nurrying over that portion of my tare 
field from which the green tares have been recently removed, 
and devouring the slugs by hundreds, probably by thousands. 
Their instinct teaches them the proper time and place to 
look for them. When we know that this spring thousands 
of wheat Belda have been devastated \>n[ «\\i^%, %\\Q\ild I not 
rejoice and be thankful to these duck%\or ^.^^xoYc^aJCvtv^^iiaft 



FABM POULTBT. 75 

fathers and mothers of a future stock of destructive slugs P 
With a large stock of chickens I am spared the torment of 
many flies, for not a gentle or fly escapes them when within 
reach. Having regard to the welfare of agriculture, it is 
high time that agriculturists should fully understand the 
habits of birds, and no longer forbear to look upon them as 
their very best friends. I am glad to see that the Minister 
of Agriculture in France has issued a prohibition against the 
destruction of small birds, and has given sound reasons for 
their preservation. As I said before, several of my wheat 
fields are open to the poultry and close to the poultry-house. 
Their abundant crops testify to the profit of a close inti- 
macy between the fowl and the field. I am treading on 
tender ground when I say that I like to see ducks in a gar- 
den, as a source of profit by the destruction of slugs, &c. 
Thick sowers of com, who get their crops prematurely and 
injuriously laid flat, would feel annoyed at the fowls and 
ducks walking over them ; but with the proper quantity of 
seed, according to the state of the land, such annoyance would 
be avoided. Even with laid crops the loss is but trifling. I 
have just harvested a crop of clover close to the duck-pond, 
estimated at three tons per acre ; although laid flat, it suf- 
fered no injury from the ducks. During its early growth 
the ducks searched it, stetch by stetch, night and mommg, for 
slugs, but they avoided it as it grew thick and close. I And 
it most conducive to the well-doing of poultry to have a load 
or two of road sand or grit, as well as some lime, under 
a shed, kept dry. 

JDo Farm Poultry Pay .?— The Field of the 27th July, in 
reviewing my remarks on this question, says,-— 

** Xnowing, as we do, the value of poultry as destroyers 
of injurious insects, we hail Mr. Mechi as an important ally 
in proclaiming their uses to the farmer, although we cannot 
but perceive that he has rather evaded the question with 
whicn he starts. It is quite true that the price of poultry 
is double that of beef, but the selling price is only an ele- 
ment in the calculation of profit. We require to know what 
is the relative cost of the food requisite to produce a pound 
of beef and a pound of fowl. If the latter costs, as we 
shrewdly suspect it does, more than double the cost of 
the former, then poultry will not pay as well as beef. Mr. 
Mechi does not solve this question." 

5^/bre /proceed to answer t\i\B cyieaVKoTi^^ tss»»^. ^jSb.^?^^ 
others : — 



76 FBOFITABLE FABMIKO. 

Ist. Will any live stock (pigs^ sheep, or cattle) pay market 
price for their food P 

2Dd. Is there any and what reason why a pound of fowl 
flesh, live weight, should cost more in food than a pound of 
beef or mutton P 

I answer unmistakably, " No," and " None." The profit 
from stock feeding must be looked for in their manure as a 
means of enriching the soil and enabling it to produce abun* 
dant crops. 

This is no question of doubt or speculation. We have 
extensive and undeniable experhnents and proofs on the 
subject, and, among many others, most voluminous, valuable, 
and exact, well-recorded results and facts detailed by Mr. 
Lawes in the various *' Journals of the E/oyal Agricultural 
Society," and which are worthy of the study of those who 
are interested in the production of meat. 

At present I am not aware of any analysis of poultry as 
compared with other flesh, but I have no reason to suppose 
that its elements are different, or that it can require any 
more food to produce 1 lb. live weight than either beef, 
mutton, or pork ; and we are quite sure that poultry obtain 
much of their food from insects, waste kernels, &c., which 
gives them, so far, a considerable advantage over cattle, 
sheep, and pigs. In Mr. Lawes's experiments, recorded in 
the " Journal of the £oyal Agricultural Society of England," 
vol. xxiii., p. 206, we see that in sheep fed on hay alone (cut 
into chaff) it required 4,339 lb. of hay chaff to produce 
1001b. increase live weight (about 55 lb. net of mutton), or 
nearly 2 tons of hay, worth at market price probably £9, to 
produce in mutton 551b. at Sd,, £1, iQs, Sd,\ Sheep fed 
upon hay and beans consumed 20 per cent., or one-flfth of 
their gross live weight weekly ; that is, more than 10 times 
their live weight in a year of 52 weeks. Now I doubt whe- 
ther poultry could be ever more ungrateful and more unre- 
munerative than this. 

In several other cases fully recorded in the Society's 

Journal the fact came out that lots of 40 sheep each, fed for 

six months with hay, linseed cake, and roots (swedes), only 

paid for the hay and cake, and left nothing for 50 tons of 

swedes consumed by each lot of 40 sheep, although the 

market price of those swedes would be 15*. per ton, or 

£37. 10*. for the 50 tons. Nothing was left for casualties, 

shelter, attendance, or interest of capital. All we gain by 

feeding cattle, sheep, and pigs is t\ie\T lawiMte* wid for that 

we bare to pay dearly. The maiwae ^tom o\rc ^Q\j\\jrs \% fA 

a very valuable quality. 



POULTBT-FEBDINQ. 77 

As to rearing, is there no risk and expense in feeding our 
cattle and sheep preparatory to and during their multiplica- 
tion P The same remark applies in degree to bullocks as 
to sheep. Mr. J, C. Morton showed that over four years* 
period of meat-making the bullocks, sheep, and pigs,' after 
paying for the cake, hay, &c., they had consumed (the latter, 
I suspect, at feeding price), only left Ss. 4td, per ton for the 
roots and green crops they had consumed. So, in other 
words, it required 450 tons of mangel, swedes, and green 
crops to produce 1 ton net of butchers' meat, worth, at 
present prices, 7\d, per lb., or £74. 5*. per ton. The mar- 
ket price of mangel and swedes is generally from 12^. to 20;. 
per ton, and of green crops quite as much. 

It is remarkable that in all our best works on poultry, 
including that one in Morton's '* Encyclopsedia of Agricul- 
ture," no mention is made of cost of food in relation to 
weight and value of poultry — the very testing-point of 
profit. Perhaps, after this paper, some of your corre- 
spondents will favour us with their facts and results. 

I am of opinion that, although live stock do not pay 
directly, thev are essential to the well-being of the farm as 
providers of the best and cheapest manure. Poultry not 
only provide manure, but benefit the farm in other ways by 
economizing every waste grain and seed, and particularly in 
the destruction of insects and slugs. Flies that torment the 
stock have no chance with them, if within reach. I now 
see them searching for insect food 500 yards from my home- 
stead. 

At the present cheap season for poultry they realize 9c?. a 
lb., live weight — exactly double the price of beef or mutton, 
which bring 4i^d. per lb., live weight. I would recommend 
every one interested in the feeding of stock or poultry to 
read Messrs. Lawes and Gilbert's admirable summary of all 
their experiments in feeding, in vol. xxi., p. 438, of the 
" Journal of the Royal Agricultural Society of England." 
They say : " For practical purposes it may be assumed 
that sheep, when fed liberally upon good fattening food, 
composed of a moderate proportion of cake or com, a little 
hay or straw chaff, together with roots or other succulent 
food, will yield, over a considerable period of time, 1 part 
increase in live weight for 9 parts of the dry substance of such 
mixed food." As the dry substance of corn or cake is worth 
l\d, per lb., and of hay and roots more than \d. -^^t \?q.>«xA. 
as the price of beef ana mutton, Uve 'weA9jDLV./\% o^ ^^^.^^Rst 
76. (5s. per atone net), it is quite clew t\i^X.,^Wi^«t*e«v^7s^^^^^ 
farourable eircamstances (if the que^V.\OTi o^ \a».\2wx^ >a "^^^ 



78 FBOFITABLB FABMING. 

considered), there must be a heavy loss in feeding live stoek. 
Not so with poultry, for their price, live weight, is over dd. 
per lb. as an average, wholesale. I have just received a 
return from the wholesale market giving lOd. per lb., live 
weight. It will never do in business matters to " shrewdly 
suspect" when we have means of arriving at a practical 
conclusion. 

My bailiff agrees with me in concluding that poultry con- 
sume, according to their weight, on the same scale as other 
flesh-forming animals ; and they never do better than when 
they have free range and access to grass or roots, which they 
consume abundantly, together with insects, seeds of weeds, 
and grain. I need hardly say that the quality of their food, 
whetler enccolent or crain, has a most material influenoe 
on the quality of their flesh and eggs. Poorly fed fowls give 
very inferior eggs, just as cows on poor pastures yield sky- 
blue milk and little cream. — October, 1867. 

Within thirty feet of the poultry'house there is now 
growing on my farm a wheat crop estimated at from six to 
seven quarters per acre, produced by one bushel of seed per 
acre. A large number of poultry have had free access to 
this fleld (as well as to my others) from the time that it was 
drilled ; and I quote the case to verify what I have long ago 
stated, that birds of nearly every kind are the farmer's 
friends, and that it is a great mistake to discourage thenn 
This very field produced 7 quarters of wheat in 1865, and 7 
quarters 2 bushels of beans in 1866 — pretty well for strong, 
plastic Tiptree Heath clay. It is strange that so little poul- 
try is reared in this country, when the price is Is, per lb. 
live weight, and the price of mutton ana beef, live weight, 
bein^ only 4\d, It is true that poultry, like other live stock, 
require good food, care and shelter, especially in winter, and 
that the race or breed should be suitable to the soil and 
climate ; but while we are importing and consuming a million 
of foreign eggs daily (Sundays included), we need not fear 
to overstock our market with home produce. Poultry, like 
sheep or other stock, manure where they go, and, in addition, 
clear oflf vermin.— -e/w^, 1867. 

Do Poultry Pay ? — Having a conviction that poultiy, like 

animals, consume according to their weight, I tested it by 

^ving to a healthy fine hen, weighing 6 lb., as much barley 

as she would eat. In seven days she coT^xmi^d. &^^ \i«l£-\iint8. 

2!b0 very Gnest barley weighs 5ft Yb.'^er \i\MJtv^\ ^\> VisiibX. 



BOOKS. 70, 

rate half a pint weighs 7oz., so that the hen consumed 35 oz., 
or a trifle over 2 lb. in a week, having no other food. This 
is a third of her own weight weeklj^. A pig weighing 60 lb. 
(live weight), or ten times the weight of the fowl, would 
certainly consume quite 20 lb. of barley per week — or ten 
times as much as the hen ; but see how great is the difference 
in value of the two for sale :— pig, 4rf. per lb. live weight ; 
fowl, 9d. to Is, per lb. live weight — wholesale price. But 
when the poultry are at large they consume many worms and 
insects, and therefore are produced at a smaller consumption 
of food than I have named. Altogether the advantage is so 
great that the whole question of producing more poultry is 
a national and important one. If by a much larger supplv 
the price were reduced one-half, they would still pay as well 
or better than sheep, bullocks, or pigs. Of course, the same 
principle applies for poultry as for other farm animals. There 
must be good breeds, and no breeding in and in after the 
first cross. We import 500,000,000 of foreign eggs annually 
-—to our disgrace be it said. It is a commonly received axiom 
that 56 lb. of barley will make 8 lb. ofpork net dead weight, 
or 5 lb. will make I lb. live weight. Therefore 5 lb. of bar- 
ley at Id. per lb. (or average 408. per quarter) will make I lb. 
live weight of poultry, worth 9d, per lb. — February ^ 1868. 

Do Poultry Pwy ? — Last week I got a return, wholesale, 
of 14^d. per lb. live weight for my poultry. I am getting 
^d. per lb. live weight for the best beef, that is 5^. per stone 
01 8 lb., ''net dead weight. I am satisfied that it requires no 
more food to make a pound of poultry than a pound of meat. 
Commend me to poultry and birdis as the farmer's best 
Mends.— Jlfay. 

Roohs. — How annoying it appears to have an eighth or a 
quiurter of an acre of a fiela of white peas destroyed by 
clouds of rooks, and yet, if we reflect, how trivial is the cost 
compared with the advantage we, as farmers, derive from 
these birds during the nine or ten months in the year when 
they live upon grubs, insects, slugs, and worms, destructive 
to agricultural produce. Their presence at seed time should 
teach us to till our land well, so that the drill places the seed, 
especially on light land, below the reach oF their bills. I 
measured their beaks to-day, and found them to be about 2^ 
inches long to the eye ; so that if the com is put in S\ vc\$^\^<^% 
it would be toJerabJj safe. Where i«nxi«t% 'w^ vyw '•^sss^ 
buahela of whea.t, and four of baxVey, mi^ ^^^ ^ ^eH^o^^"^ 



80 FBOFITABLB FABMIKO. 

oats, it would be a great benefit if the rooks could take half 
of it. I am daily more and more convinced that birds are 
the farmer's friends, especially now that the broadcast sys- 
tem is nearly given up, and that we are gradually resorting 
to deep steam tillage and drill culture. It is only in extreme 
dry weather like the present when they are distressed for 
want of worms, &c., that they perseveringly attack the pea 
crops. — July, 1867. 

Advertising. — It is a singular fact that one rarely sees a 
farmer's advertisement of what he has to sell and what he 
wants to buy. The result is, that he must either employ com- 
mission agents (called dealers), or sell his own stock at the 
neighbouring market. Many dealers are very conscientious 
men, but I have known some cases where 30 or 40 per cent, 
profit has intervened between the seller and buyer. Besides, 
a single market is a limited one both for buyer and seller ; 
animals are often worn down by travel from market to 
market, and too frequently contract and bring home diseases. 
Advertisements were once dear and heavily taxed, now they 
are cheap, and would be cheaper still were the farming 
advertisements more numerous. A newspaper reaches a 
whole county, and probably beyond that. I find it by far 
the most ready waj of obtaining what stock I require, and 
at a moderate price— especially during the prohibition of 
cattle-markets caused by the cattle plague. — May, 1867. 

My Steam Engine, — After twenty years of heavy wear, I 
still find it as efficient as on its first purchase, and likely to 
last for many years to come. Last year I fitted it with a 
new Cornish boiler, preferring perfect safety, especially as we 
work at a pressure of 701b. per inch. The old boiler was 
allowed for in exchange, and would still do a great deal of 
work at 401b. per inch, the water in it having always been 
kept at a proper level : for two years it was worked at 120 lb. 
per inch. I also fitted shakers instead of rakes to my old 
thrashing-machine, and put all the machinery, engine, pumps, 
&c., into thorough repair, — the cost of this was £150. The 
new boiler is 12 ft. long and 4 ft. 6 in. in diameter ; the 
furnace is within the flue, so that all the radiating heat is 
applied to the boiler. There is thus no brickwork im- 
mediately in connection with the furnace, but merely for the 
£ue. We have always an abundance of steam for everv 
purpose without mnch stoking, and m%© ^"b dxvsX. ^^«\, "^Ivvqdl 
onljr costs us 10s. 6d. per ton, asid^s.^ex Vsti ^«x\»%^^wnv 



STBAH MACHINEBY. 81 

Maldon. It is the screenings from the best coal, and 
practically we can keep up more steam with this than with 
the large coal, because, being in such minute pieces, it is 
quickly converted into flame when spread over the surface of 
me fire. During the six winter months our engine has daily 
work in thrashing, grinding, pumping, chaff-cutting, cake- 
breaking, working Bentall's pulper and Gardener's cutter, 
pumping water, irrigating, and steaming for our cattle, which 
vary from fifty to seventy head, young and old, besides 200 
sheep. It also raises all the sacks of corn to the upper floors. 
It earns a considerable sum annually by grinding for my 
neighbours, when wind or water mills are at a stand-still for 
want of wind or water. Our engine (flxed) is nominally of 
6-horse power, but with an Q-horse boiler, and 70 lb. of steam, 
no sixteen horses could do its work — and they would have 
been worn out. Its consumption of dust coal is from 8 to 
12 cwt. per day, according to the severity of the work, at a 
cost of about 6*. to 8s, &d, per day. We sometimes ask bur- 
selves how it is possible for a farmer of 170 acres (having a 
regard to proflt) to do without an engine, especially where 
much stock is kept. I paid £150 for the engine and boiler 
twenty years ago— of course all the machines connected with 
and worked by it were an additional cost. When barley was 
20s. per quarter, our millstones (4 ft. 2 in. in diameter) 
ground 1,500 quarters in one year for our pigs. Barley is 
too dear now for pig-feeding. One of our agricultural 
labourers has driven the engine for twenty years. One can 
generally And among one's men a handy labourer with 
mechanical tendencies ; the engine soon teaches him to be a 
handy man, who will learn to dress the millstones, keep the 
machinery in repair, and do a number of mechanical jobs, 
such as rough painting, carpentering, smith's work, and even 
a little slating and bricklaying. It certainly does astonish 
me that so many large farmers, with means, are without 
suitable steam machinery. I quite agree with the reporters 
on steam cultivation in the latest number of the Society's 
journal, that the farmer should himself know something 
about the steam-engine to use it with comfort and proflt.— 
Matf, 1867. 

I%e Willing AaricuUural Slave, — Feed it well with coals 
and water, and oil its joints, and it will never tire or com- 
plain. What a mental, moral, and '5\iY«\c«\ ^^fe^\.'S^ \^ ^'sv- 
AuciDg on the British, agricultwTai \B\>o\aet^ ^^^ ^^'^ ^. 
awakens and sharpens the farming mteVi^cX.. '^V^ ^"^ *^^ 



82 FBOFITABLS FABMING. 

the other mechanical operations of the farm, that onoe re- 
duced the labourer to a mere mechanical machine and 
destroyed his physical energies, sending him, a consumptiye 
patient or a deformed cripple, to the Union House before 
or during his old age, will haye become soon and very gene- 
rally ** the lights of other days." This slavery is reduced 
some fifty per cent., and he has transferred fully that balance 
to the agricultural steam-engine, which is neither sick nor 
sorry, which is never hungry nor thirsty when out of work, 
and whose frame (under Dr. Engineer) is of long and profit- 
able endurance. Who has not noted, as I have during my 
agricultural observation, the young but broken-down married 
labourer with a large young family converted into a perma- 
. nent pauper by thrashmg by piece-work in the bam, month 
after month, until nature gave way P And the same results 
have been often produced by the chafi*-cutter (piece-work). 
But leaving alone the philanthropic, let us appeal to self- 
interest and the breeches pocket. I have asserted, and I 
here repeat my conviction, that every farm of 150 to 200 
acres of arable land (not grass) should have a steam engine 
with its necessary accompaniments. I speak of course of a 
highly tilled farm, on wnich much live stock is kept and 
much corn and other produce grown; in fact, a farm on 
which much business is done— and, of course, on which a 

frofit is annually made. Take my own case as an example, 
[ere are 170 acres — landlord's measure — of naturally poor 
land, all arable, except fourteen acres in permanent pasture. 
Let us see what work we have for an engine, on an average 
of years : — 

550 quarters of com to thrash and dress. 
200 tons of straw to cut into chaff. 

25 tons of clover hay to cut into chaff. 

25 tons of grass hay to cut into chaff. 

100 tons of green tares, green clover, Italian rye-grass to cut into chaffs. 
400 tons of mangels, swedes, cabbage, and carrots to pass throngli ttie cutter 
orpulper. 
ooo sacks of com to grind for our own consumption. 
800 ditto for hire. 

SO tons of rape, cotton, and linseed cake to break. 
1 ,400 sacks of com to hoist. 
Many sacks of linseed to be crushed. 
The grindstone to be turned. 
350 tons of water to be pumped for stock. 
6,000 to 10,000 tons of water and sewage force pumped on the grass land. 

J think that after this list my brother agriculturists will 
admit that some business is aoue on. 1\vq farm, and that 
lliere is something for my fixed en^^me \» ^o. IJL'^ *?fC^^% 



CU ANQE IN THB APPLICATION OF CAPITAL. 83 

agricultural slave has an active employment. Yet this is 
what really ought to be done on every poor farm of the same 
extent as mine, in order to convert them into profit-making 
concerns. It is true that this sort of management necessitates 
a concentration of capital on a limited area — say a tenant's 
capital of £16 to £20 per acre, and a large investment of land- 
lord's capital in the necessary conveniences for such an amount 
of business. The tenant would really be in a much better posi- 
tion, paying an increased rental of forty to £fty per cent, as 
interest for the necessary improvements. I know of many 
thousands of acres of poor heavy land that are almost starving 
and robbing the tenant for want of drainage and of such 
improvements and conveniences as I have described. 
My object in so frequently calling the attention of 
business men to the profitableness of such operations is 
to stimulate a great improvement and change in our 
ordinary application of capital. Spread it thicker on 
the lana. The land is grateful, as I know by experience — 
there is plenty of money in the country. It only wants 
tempting out of the pockets in which it is so com- 
fortably ensconced. There is scarcely a parish in the king- 
dom where you cannot find one or more quiet and economic 
individuals with their many thousands at command. Let 
their juvenile successors learn to believe that money spread 
thickly on the land is the true way to make a good profit, 
but that a mere sprinkling, as is too commonly the case now, 
means low rents and miserable profits. This wet season the 
difierence between highly farmed and well-drained corn-fields 
is, in many cases within my knowledge, quite £7 per acre, 
or more than the entire cost of perfect pipe drainage. It is 
just in such seasons as these that the high improved farmer 
gets such an enormous advantage, and consequently large 
profit, as compared with the non-improver. White wheat 
18 at 75s, or more per quarter ; two extra quarters per acre 
gives us £7. lOs. advantage, besides extra straw. The first cost 
of a fixed steam engine and boiler is not great. I paid for 
mine, nineteen years ago, only £150, or £25 per horse-power ; 
and the engine is likelv to last many years longer. I ex- 
changed the old boiler for a new and larger one (Cornish) in 
1865. Of course, the fixing, riggers, straps, and various 
machines are all at additional cost. The cost of working for 
a full day may be taken as — 



o 2 



84 FBOFITIBLB FABMING. 



10 cwt. daftt coal, at 10«. 6d, per ton . . « . ..53 

Cartas 16 

Eng^ine-driver 2 6 

Oil, wear aad tear, &c 19 



11 0* 



Sixteen horses could not do an equal quantity of work. We 
use the engine as many times in the year as would represent 
about 170 full days, if we ask what has made England so 
great and so rich, the answer must be " steam power ; " and 
are we not justified in concluding that agriculture must look 
to the same power to increase its wealth and dignity P Let 
landlords and tenants, too, ponder well this question, and 
look upon steam as their best friend. Our astute Scotch 
friends have been beforehand with us in the matter of steam 
in agriculture. Even the showmen at fairs Sind fStes work 
their round-about of wooden horses by a neat portable 
steam-engine, which they find infinitely more effective and 
profitable than the old system. Surely, then, it must soon 
oecome general on every arable farm of 150 acres upward. 

P.S. I am almost daily more and more convinced that my 
brother agriculturists have not sufficiently devoted their 
attention to the great advantages they would derive from 
the more general adoption of steam-power. A striking 
instance of this inattention occurred a day or two ago. A 
wealthy farmer of 800 acres of arable land in this county 
(much of it his own) visited me, and in the discussion of 
various matters I expressed my astonishment at his not 
using steam-power for preparing food for his horses and 
cattle. " Well," he said, " I do pay a great deal of money 

* It will be seen by my farm balance-sheets for 1865 and 1866, at pp. 1 1 1 and 
112 of my new book, that my expenditure for eng^e coals was for those two 
years a total of jesi. 17s. lltf., and my receipts for grinding: for hire during the 
same period jff 104. os. 7<2.» so that all my own work, as above described, was 
done without any cost for coal and only jfi'lO. 12c. 6d. annually for eng^eer*s 
labour, because the balance of grinding for hire (^22. 2s. ed.) more than paid 
the engine-driver's wages of 28. 6d. a day for 170 days— ^^21. 5«. So I had 
only to pay for my own work (for a whole year)— 

jfft 8m d» 

Balance of engine-driver's wages 10126 

Interest on engine, boiler, and drifing gear, 4^200, at 5 per 

cent 10 

Wear and tear, oil, repairs, &c., at 10 per cent 20 

Total annual cost .. 4^40 12 6 

or About the azmnal keep of one horse and a half. What would sixteen horses 

bare cost in original purchase-money, devtec^SLWoti, Ye«^, «.\^Tvd«Ace^ and 

8»ddler*B and smith's bills, veterinary, &c.> Ttieate N«V£i uo Vm.^«c \» ^ax? 

occasion to a»k, a iter this statement, ""WVa^kfttfcwa-cn^^ ^B«SCitL«.\«mc>\ 

'« acres? '* 



THE FBOFEB USE OF OBEBK FOOD. 85 

for the hire of a steam thrashing-inachme ; but how could I 
cut up green food enough for my forty horses P " I smiled 
at the singular indifference or want of attention that pre- 
vented his seeing that the power that could thrash seventy 
quarters of wheat in one day would make child's play of 
comminuting enough green food for 40 or 400 horses. I 
laboured hard to convince him that he not only must have a 
fixed steam-engine for the various purposes that I have de- 
scribed in this paper, but also gigantic engines for cultivating 
his 800 acres of good but stiff soil. There could be no excuse 
on the score of capital, with which he is well furnished; he 
only lacked the conviction that such machines would be 
profitable to him. He never cuts up any straw, hay, or 
^reen food ! 

The Use and Abuse of Cheen Food and Soots.'^Moie than 
twenty years ago I said that early green food is either 
food or physic, according to the mode in which it is ad- 
ministered. That remark of mine is as true as daylight. I 
cannot too strongly protest against the common practice of 
giving an unlimited supply of purgative young spring tares, 
unmixed with other and dryer iood. Just look at the stable 
or cattle shed under such a system. One would almost 
declare that each animal had received a strong purgative 
dose, and so they really have, for it is only physic in another 
form ; all this is going on while we are complaining of farm- 
ing being unprofitable. Another agricultural delinquency 
(for morally it amounts to that) is the turning a lot of norses, 
cattle, or sheep into a strong piece of clover for exercise as 
well as physic. It appears to me like a piece of agricultural 
insanity and suicide. I feel so strongly on this point of 
wasting food, that I am bound to express mvself plainly. 
Custom is a tyrant, and it will take some hard fighting and 
u good many rounds before we can knock down and do away 
wuth the wretched "turning-out" system. It should be 
called a turning out of the breeches pocket and the money it 
contains. I was led to these remarks, first, by seeing how 
our own green crops were to-day prepared ; and, secondly, by 
seeing seven horses turned at large into a fine field of young 
clover, to drag it down by walking so many miles daily over 
it, and to prevent its growth by sleeping and dunging upon 
it. All this must be altered if we are to farm with the best 
results, at advanced rents. To-day Tie ax^ c^y^^i\Ti^^i:^$;^*^s'Qs:kS^ 
Buccnlent tares into :J-inch loi\|;t\i&, TiiixMi^ \JaKai 'SR^^ia. ^^^^ 
cut hay and straw chaff, bo that the amm^^ ^"^^\^ v^i 
not physic. The Lay and straw are cut. vd\.o \a^^^^'^'^'^ 



86 



FBOFITABLE FABKIKO. 



It is only those who have practised this who can know how 
much stock an acre of tares will keep. Then we see huge 
loads of tares and clover brought into the yards to be picked 
over and trodden under foot, and as they get old and tough 
they now and then kill a horse or a bullock with flatulence 
and inflammation. Any man who sits down without prejudice 
to calculate the cost and merit of the two systems wul rise 
with a strong conviction that the turning out and non- cutting 
up system is an unnecessary, dangerous, and most wasteful 
process. Steam power, or even horse-power, makes child's- 
play of cutting up. One of my men used to cut up occasion- 
ally 160 bushels per day, but the time is approaching when 
a little upright or portable steamer, something larger than a 
tea-kettle, will do all that is required in the cutting up of 
green food. The same remarks apply in degree to roots. 
We never give our bullocks more than half a bushel (30 lb.) 
daily, pulped and mixed with hay and straw chaff, and other 
dry food. A man must be employed specially to cut up and 
mix the food ; the ploughmen will not do it. It is a hard 
Inatter to get them even to mow and bring home the tares 
and clover; they like to turn their horses out and see no 
more of them until wanted for work next morning. — May. 

Tiptree Sail Live-Stoch Account for 1868. — I ask myself 
the question. Does it pay to feed £873 of cake, corn, &c., 
besides and with the produce of thirty acres of green and 
root crops P I have long since said ** Yes," and proved it by 
the £. 8. d. But how do I prove it P By taking Mr. Lawes s 
estimate of the manurial value of each ton of food consumed, 
after it has been consumed, and by finding all my crops of a 
maximum instead of an ordinary yield. 




Best American linseed-cake 
Mixed cotton-cake .. 
Best rape-cake. .' 
Beans (20 stones per sack) . . 

Malt combs 

Bran 

Condimental food 
Oats and barley 

Linseed 

Clover and grass hay . . 





Manurial 




Tons. 


value 
per Ion. 






£> 8. d. 


£. «. d. 


14 


4 12 


64 8 





ft 


SO 


13 


4 18 


58 16 


25 


8 13 6 


91 17 6 


5 


4 5 


21 6 


10 


3 


30 


2 


2 


4 


4 


1 14 


6 16 


1 


3 13 


3 13 


17 


1 17 « 

\ 


31 17 6 


\ ^^ 


X^^-ix-^ ^ 



COST OF MANUBB. 87 

Sfanure compared with ^aano when it was £10 per ton, 
equal to thirty-four tons of guano, which at £13 per ton, its 
present price, would amount to £442. Deduct £100 for 
extra attendance, grinding, <&c., of this extra quantity of 
food, and there appears a gain of £342 as compared with 
the purchase of guano. As a general estimate, I consider 
this a fair and just comparison. No account is taken of the 
manure resulting from the thirty acres of root and green 
crops consumed. It appears from the foregoing that I get 
£442 of guano for about £100. Is not that a saving and a 
gafnP Take away that amount of manure, and see how 
much my general crops would be diminished. I am no 
believer in the over-manuring of crops, especially mangel, 
beans, clover, grasses, and particularly Italian rye-grass. 
Besides, with every extra inch of subsoil moved there are 
one hundred tons of poor soil to be enriched. The great 
curse of English agriculture is, after want of drainage, defi- 
ciency of manure. My experience has taught me that land 
can never be too rich, even for wheat or other cereals, pro- 
vided the manure has been apolied for a previous crop. It 
is the sowing of too much seed that causes crops to be pre- 
maturely laid in well-fertilized soils. — February 2. 

Tiptree Live-stoch Balance-sheet, 1867. — Further details 
being desired, I have much pleasure in furnishing them :— 

Attendance on stock (men and boys), equal to two men 

for one year at 4^40 4^60 

Horse labour, equal to one horse for one year . . . . 35 

Feeding the chaff-cutter, equal to one man for half a year 20 

^13S 
Cost of 25^ acres of green and root crops consumed by 

•took* 137 10 



4^272 10 
Deduct balance in favour of live stock as per published 

account 114 5 3 



jffiss 4 9 



This is the cost of manure produced by making £702 worth 
of meat, wool, milk, and poultry. To make this quantity of 
meat, &c., the live stock consumed £650 of cake, corn, bran, 
malt combs, hay, and feeding stufifs, in addition to the 25^ 

* Green and root crops consumed :— 6 acres of mangel, 1 do. of &>ireA.«Ax 
3 do. of cabbage, 9 do. of Italian Tye-grasa, b\ Cio.'<K\vV\ft X>»\svv^^ ^S5«x v«»a^ 
picked for LoDdonmatket i 1 do. taxes *, lotai, %b\^'cx«%, 'Y>Bfc^\sst-\si»Na.^>' 
lover and pasture. 



88 FfiOFITABLB FABMI2«'G. 

acres of root and green crops. Something for interest of 
capital should be added to the above cost of manure. Then 
comes the all-important question, Is this £158. 4t8, 9d. worth 
of animal farm manure worth more or less in its composition 
and in its results than £158. 4«. 9d, laid out in artificial 
manures P Which system would produce the most money in 
crops P My experience is strongly in favour of the farm 
manure (unwashed and unwasted) ; out, as I do not get enoagh 
of it, I supplement it with Peruvian guano and salt, at a cost 
of about £70 per annum. Superphosphate of lime or bones 
shows no result on this farm, there being, I suppose, already 
enough in the soil. If we take either Dr. Voelcker'a or Mr. 
Lawes's estimates and opinions, the difference in cost of the 
feeding principle is very considerable.* The corn I use in 
feeding is almost all bean meal, the cake principally rape, 
linseed, and some cotton ; also bran and malt combs ; roots 
only about 30 lb. per each bullock daily. The manure fr^m 
the consumption of the £550 of purchased food may, accord- 
ing to Mr. Lawes's table, be— 

At more than one-third of its cost, or about . . . . j£'200 

From the consumption of 25^ acres of green and root crops, 

more than 75 



^275 



We have, besides, the advantage of a manure containing 
all the elements of the food of plants {see Liebig), while in 
guano there is a want of certain alkalies, &c., so that in fact 
in certain cases guano has acted as an exhauster of the soil. 
!N^o such result as I have attained could be obtained by the 
too ordinary mode of allowing animals to roam over their 
food unsheltered from atmospheric vicissitudes. The great 
want of agriculture is more manure — much more manure — 
and I have proved, at least to my own satisfaction, that 
there is no way of restoring fertility to our exhausted fields 
so cheap and effective as by the feeding of live stock with 
food not produced by my own farm. Growing food on one 
side of a farm and feeding it on the other adds nothing to 
the mineral elements of the soil. It is only " robbing Peter 

* Mr. Lawes's estimated vaJae of the manure obtained from the consump- 
tion of 

1 ton of decorticated cotton cake jf6 10 

„ rape cake 4 is 

,, linseed cake 4 18 

„ maltdast \ ^ « 

btnns "a \^ ti 



STOCK-f^BDIKa AKD VENTILATION. 89 

to pay Paul,'* but it is not so when food produced elsewhere 
leaves its residue in our land. The £70,000,000 of eatables 
and drinkables imported annually from foreign countries, 
added to our home produce, ought, on this principle, to 
greatly enrich our soil, but it does not, for most of it goes 
down our sewers to poison our rivers. We are only just 
beginniug to think about utilizing those precious and costly 
streams of life-preserviug elements which we have at hand 
at small cost, and we have been veiy reluctantly brought to 
this step in the right direction by the force of sanitary, not 
agricultural considerations. It thus appears that there is a 
charge of £1 per acre over the whole farm for the manure 
produced from the consumption of £567 of purchased food, 
and the produce of 25^ acres of green and root crops. The 
real question at issue is. Do we get, by the use of this 
manure, an addition to our crops of the value of £1 per acre P 
I am satisfied that I do, and much more than £1. It is, in 
fact, the key to the profit of the farm ; without it I could not 
derive a profit from this poor land. When we consider that 
an addition to the crop of either 2^ bushels of wheat, 4 of 
barley, or 5 of oats would more than pay this £1 per acre, 
there need be little doubt about the result. — Aprils 1868, 



STOCK-FEEDING : VENTILATION. 

Whbn farmers see my twenty bullocks in one covered and 
inclosed shed they frequently exclaim, ** Can they be 
healthy here P" 

That is a proper remark, for unless the ventilation were 
perfect they could not be healthy, so closely packed in a 
limited space. If there is one shortcoming greater than 
another in our general agriculture, it is certainly want of 
ventilation in inclosed sheds and stables. Farmers have 
found that their horses and cattle are more healthy in 
open yards with sheds rather than in confined places, but 
they are by no means aware that the difierence is owing to 
the want of ventilation. How seldom do we find a cart- 
horse stable or close shed with an opening in the roof 
for the escape of impure air! Very near me, after a burning- 
down of the old buildings, a number of new sheds have been 
erected without a single opening in the roof of any qi;v<^ Qkl 
them ! As a rule, our general fanxi WA^vsi^^ ^s^^'^Sia <ssst 
liouBea, Badly de£cient in healthy ciicvxYaWoTi q1 ^vt» 



90 FBOHITABLB TASMIVQ. 

As my system of yentilation appears to keep my animals 
(although closely packed) in perfect health, I will describe 
it. A portion of the centre or the roof is raised above the 
rest, with louvre boards on each side, but the wind is not 
allowed to blow through from one side to the other, but a 
board, a yard or more in depth, is dependent from the roof, 
so that the current of air coming through the louvre boards 
is deflected and passes downwards, driving out the foul ahr 
through the opposite side or louvre boards, or through the 
holes in the top of the walls under the wall plate. The 
circulation is thus constant and perfect. Of course we can- 
not see this, but I have seen it under the following circum- 
stances: — Some steam from our steaming coppers finds its 
way occasionally into one of our sheds, and, although the 
weather may be nearly calm, I observe that the current of air 
entering through the louvre boards strikes against the centre 
deflecting board, and drives the steam to the very floor of 
the shed, causing it to escape at the other side of the depen- 
dent board, and through the side holes in the wall. If 
there were no dependent divisional board the air would 
pass right through between the louvre boards on each 
side, without entering the body of the building itself, and 
therefore without displacing and replacing the foul air. It 
was very instructive to be able, by the medium of steam, to 
see that circulation which would otherwise have only been 
surmised. The bodies of man and animals are constantly 
ffivinff off" effluvia, as well by the pores of the skin as by the 
breath ; and those who attend public dinners and crowded 
meetings are made aware, by the tendency to gaping and 
sleepiness, that ihey are inhaling a poisonous vapour. How 
soon a few people will contaminate the air of a room ! Coming 
out of the fresn pure air, the disgusting smell is at once per- 
ceptible. In our confined police-courts it not only fills the 
court, but contaminates the adjoining rooms; the advan- 
tages of more doors than one are very perceptible. 

A certain eminent Yorkshire farmer, who for years was in 
the habit of rearing successfully many calves, had a long 
inclosed shed with a door at each end, in which they were 
kept. Somehow or other, the end door would often be left 
open, and as frequently closed. At last, to prevent the 
annoyance of this frequently-opened door, it was removed and 
the place bricked up. All at once the calves took to doing 
badly, and so continued for two or three years, until some 
one thought th&t the closed doox m\g\it li^Lve had something 
to do with it, so the door waa Tem%Vi«A.fc^» mi^ ^^ «»^^% 



VENTILATION. 91 

then went on well. The moral was obvious : there was no 
circulation until the second door was re-opened. 

In one of my sheds, where the animals are on sparred 
floors, and very closely packed, say two bullocks in a space 
twelve feet by eight, tor twenty years there has not been the 
loss of an animal, although many lots have been fattened 
there ; some remaining from calves until two years old. 

The best proof of proper circulation is that when outside 
the sheds, especially in a quiet day, your nose is offended by 
the smells issuing out of the holes in the walls or the open 
doors. The exhalations and effluvia are kept moving and 
being driven out, instead of stagnating among the animals 
and destroying their health. This question of ventilation 
is most important, just now that we are gradually giving 
up the " roaming at large " system, and making the most 
or our produce. 

I know of a gentleman's mansion that is ventilated by a 
single gaslight in a brick chimney or shaft. There are 
openings in the ceiling of every room connected with the 
snaft. The gaslight heats the chimney and causes an up- 
current, which draws to it all the mixed smells arising from 
the dinner-table, as well as from unhealthy bedrooms. 

By the bye, speaking of chimneys, the following may be 
useful : — A short chimney at my place of business obstinately 
refused to "draw," in consequence of being closely sur- 
rounded by some very lofty newly-erected buildings. In 
vain were paper-shavings and other combustibles lighted; the 
flame and smoke would come down instead of going up. 
Our folks were in despair, for the whole place used to be 
heated by this one furnace. I suggested introducing a gas- 
light into the chimney, there' being* a trap-door, and an arm 
with a gas-burner close by ; the flame from the single burner 
in a quarter of an hour so heated the chimney, and caused 
such a strong up-current, that the fire burned brilliantly, 
and we have never since had any trouble about it. The gas 
is only required for 10 or 15 minutes. 

If one comes into a well-filled country church five minutes 
late in summer, how unpleasant is the smell ! In town, 
where the general air is less pure, the diflerence is not so 
quickly perceptible. — March, 1868. 

I have reason to know that Mr. Watson's double current 
Syphon Ventilators are most perfect and durable, and are in 
extensive use. Mr. Charles Watson's address is at Halifax^ 
Yorkshire. London office : Mr. JoW"Ha!!X,*1^,^w^^'3csss^ 
Vnias, Bartholomew Eoad, Kentisli To^i[i,^r^ . % ^tAA--^^- 



92 FBOFITABLB FABMINO. 

commend every landowner and stock-feeder to obtain and 
read his pamphlet on ventilation. M^ rough shed-ventila- 
tion is somewhat on Mr. Watson's principle. Mr. Watson 
will shortly fix his ventilators to my place of business in 
Begent Street. They are already in use in more than 4,000 
churches, public halls, and other buildings. Strange to say, 
our City Corporation have only as yet nibbled at the inven* 
tion, although, in our City Parliament, I have been often 
either ** draughted *' or poisoned by the present imperfect 
system. I attach immense importance to Mr. Watson's remarks 
on the ills arising: to cattle and horses by want of ventilation. 
I know practically that they are too true. During the cattle 
plague, when I had about seventy head of cattle all under 
cover, we had no disease, although it raged around us. 

Chaff-cutting. — ^We are gradually arriving at the sound 
conviction that we must, or rather our animals must, eat our 
straw instead of wasting it in sopping up water in open farm 
yards. Science and practice have taught us that a ton of 
straw is worth much more as food than as litter. The onlj 
difficulty is the preparation of it as food. The main point is 
that it should be cut into very short lengths, say ^ to ^ of an 
inch, that it should be clean cut and without '* slivers " or 
long lengths or strips of straw. There is no difficulty in 
doing this if the knives are kept properly sharpened. Every 
hour and a half the knives should be rou(i:he(l or sharpened 
with a file. Every day and a half the knives should be ground. 
The work is thus enectually done and there is diminished 
strain and waste of power. Too often labourers go blunder- 
ing on with dull edges, incurring useless cost and waste. 

Lean Stock, Lean Crops; Fat Stockt Fat C7r<)p5.— Expe- 
rience has convinced me of the truth of this axiom. There- 
fore those who supply us with lean or store stock must not 
expect heavy crops, unless they consume much cake, com, 
&c., or use artificial manures abundantly. Dairy farming 
for cheese or milk is exhaustive, for butter much less so. 



STOCZ-EEEDING AND MEAT-MAKING (No. 1). 

TsBpnhYic mind has been lately a good deal excited about 
the price of meat. It bebovcB us, ^Vexe^oxe, \» ^Tod\ice it 
as abundantly and cheaply aa "we omi, cou^aVciiVK^ ^\^ q\» 



MBAT-MAKINO. 93 

interests as farmers. How to do this and to turn to the best 
account our consumable produce, as well as to preserve unin- 
jured the manure resulting from its consumption, is the 
object of this paper. 

In agriculture, as in other arts, it is well to free our minds 
from the bias of old customs and prejudices, and to weigh 
them well against the improvements that science points out, 
and that the change of circumstances resulting from the in- 
troduction of steam-power almost necessitates. 

The man who developes his animal in the shortest time» 
at the least cost, with a good sanitary condition, must be, 
in that respect, the best farmer. In arriving at a successful 
conclusion I have been guided by observation and experiment, 
and have derived much valuable support from a study of the late 
Mr. Hors fall's papers in the Koyal Agricultural Society's 
Journal, vols. xvii. and xviii. We think that we have arrived 
at a good method, seeing that our eighteen and twenty 
months' old beasts have been purchased b^ butchers as 
Christmas beef, and our sheep are dead ripe at twelve 
months. It is very easy to fatten old, full-grown animals, 
but young animals are like boys, seldom naturally fat ; it 
becomes, therefore, necessary to vary and intermix their 
food, and to prevent over-exercise. Building up a young, 
growing animal is in some respects, like building a house 
or growing a plant ; unless all the required materials or 
ingredients are present in fit condition, due proportions, and 
sufficient quantities, the house cannot be properly built. 
The absence of a single element may render unavailable all 
the rest. In vain have we bricks, slates, lime, sand, boards, 
nails, and labour ; they may all be useless without water or 
any other one of those substances. 

The food that makes fat will not make bone or lean, and 
so on with other parts of the animal. A full-grown animal, 
with its bone and lean already made, should be differently 
fed from a young, growing animal. Eor want of knowledge 
on this matter some farmers waste an immense quantity of 
food, by failing to get a proper return for it in meat or milk. 

In the following it will be seen that I give bran to make 
bone, malt combs to produce lean or muscle, in addition to 
the ordinary food. The condimental food I find important : 
in the crushed and boiled linseed we get rich and soft 
fat — bean-meal gives firmness. Warm food in cold wea* 
ther is profitable, the animals should also be k!^^tYcs.^^'«L\&. 
but weil'VeDtilated place, tlie {Loota •^^'^fe^ ^tA ^jfe-c^e-cXfe^" 
Fall belliea, distended sides, mih. a eomlat\»X\^^ ^aats.\iEV!^ftSi- 



94 PBOFITABLB PABMIKG. 

attitude, fAve eyidence of good management. An active, 
fidgeting, discontented, and erpectant attitude, with inquiring 
look and complaining voice, indicate neglect or mismanage- 
ment by the stock feeder. 

If animals feel cold, they will use too much exercise to 
be profitable. Animals should always have access to water, 
especially when much dry food is used, and rock-salt should 
be always in the feeding-troughs. 

When animals are brought to us in store condition, we 
feed them sparingly at first, and gradually increase the quan- 
tity and quality. When reared at home and well fed from 
their birth, no such precaution is necessary. Animals that 
cost us £10 generally turn over, or double their value, in 
about four or five months. 



Food consumbd bt bach Bullock Wbbklt, and its Cost. 

Cost. 

lb. a. J. 

Linseed cake and cotton, or rape cake, mixed ., ..28 2 4 

Bean-meal 48 S 6 

Hay in chaff 28 10 

Malt combs 6 04 

Bran .6 4 

Linseed (as soup) 3^ 7 

Condimental food 3^ 7 



Per week 8 8 

Roots, 30 lb. per day ; straw chaff ad Ubitum—tlbout 2 bushels per day. 

!N'o charge made to the bullocks for the roots, straw, or 
attendance. All the rest charged at market prices. 



Wbbklt Consumption of Food pbr 100 Lambs that will bk sold 

Fat in Fbbbuary, 1868. 

Weekly Cost, 
lb. jff. $. d. 

Grass hay (in chaff) 110 4 2 

Bran 112 6 

Black oats ground to meal .. 154 16 

Malt combs 77 4 4 

Linseed cake .. .. .. 268 1 6 

Beans ground into meal 112 10 

jffS 6 6 
Or 7i<2« each per week. 

I^ejr are now on white turnips, for which no charge is made. 
The white turnips are after peaa, igiuke^ ioT tfe London 
market. 



CONDITIONS OF SUCCESSFUL FBBDING. 95 

The conditions may be described as follows : — 

1. The cattle to be placed in covered and enclosed sheds 
on paved floors, or on sparred floors. 

2. The ventilation to be perfect and well above the 
animals. 

3. The stvaw or litter to be supplied very cautiously and 
in small quantities, so that no fermentation can take place. 
In cool weather the bedding may accumulate to the depth 
of eighteen inches to two feet, and is then quite fit for the 
land. 

4. One hundred superficial feet of space is ample for each 
bullock of two years old when fat ; and if accustomed to 
each other, English short-horns may be loose. 

5. A closed shed to hold' twenty may be built of brick 
and slate in the most substantial manner for £120 to £130 $ 
the floor paved and cemented ; the bricked walls eight feet 
high. 

6. A supply of water always available. 

7. Eood^^to be varied in kind, commiouted, intermixed, and 
administered in a moist and warm condition. 

8. The proportion of roots to be comparatively small — say 
one-fifth in bulk ; the quantity of straw chafl* to be large, and 
hay chafl* in the proportion of one to Ave of the straw. 

9. Scouring or laxity of bowels is a sure sign of unprofit- 
able progression, as it would be in human beings. Said one 
of my men to me to-day, " Half the farmers' cattle * scour,* 
and in consequence put on flesh very slowly ; and so should 
we under the like circumstances." 

A large practical farmer who has recently seen our system 
of feeding, writes thus to his friend ; — " I look upon Mr. 
Mechi's system as an agricultural manufactory quite right in 
principle, and must sooner or later be adopted. 

The best evidence of the success of this mode of feeding is 
the condition of the excretions, indicating neither constipa* 
tion nor relaxation — so diflerent from the purgative condi- 
tion arising from an entire root diet. Frequently we hear of 
the loss of a fine ox caused by an over-supply of unmixed 
bean-meal, or hard, dark, unsoftened cotton cake. I find it 
advantageous to soak all hard cotton or rape cake in water 
twelve to eigheen hours — ^hot water preferred. This will 
prevent much loss in cattle. 

The various kinds of food give each a different condition 
of meat. Bean-meal prevents laxity of boweV&^ «sA ^g;:^^!^ 
solidity to the meat ; out it m\xftt )oe xxftfe^ m ^aSi^Kt^fe^^-* 
and in conjunction with otlier food, livaa^^^ S& ^wsrSsk^-* 
%nd gives soft rich fat. 



96 FBOFITABLB FABMIKG. 

In pig-feediD£^, two-thirds barley-meal and one-third pea- 
meal answer well, especially when aided by skimmed milk. 

It will have been seen by the foregoing that we build up 
our young animals amply and rapidly fit for the market. 
The variety and amplitude of the food causes this effect, 
aided by shelter, warmth, and tranquillity. Such effects 
cannot be produced by the too ordinary mode of relying on 
only two or three sorts of food. Hay alone, or turnips alone, 
are a great economical mistake. I could never satisfy myself 
or the butcher until I added linseed and condimental food to 
the other ingredients : remember that I am speaking of 
young growing animals. 

Let us now consider the very important part of the ques- 
tion, I mean the quality of this meat, for on that mainly 
depends your getting top prices and a steady demand. The 
meat, although so young, is rich in flavour, mellow, tender, 
and juicy, well mottled with fat, neither too soft nor too 
hard ; and this character, or rather quality, extends to the 
forepart of the bullock, which is generally the butcher's dif- 
ficulty. The bone is small, and the joints well adapted to 
small families, where the number of domestics is limited. 

The appearance of the meat, too, is satisfactory as it hangs 
in the butcher's shop ; nor does it require to hang three 
or four weeks, like great coarse dark four-year-old beef, 
to " break down " the tough fibre. It is true some " old 
stagers" prefer a higher flavour and darker colour; but 
there is a majority of " young stagers " who like this young, 
juicy, tender meat, and so it sells well, which is the main 
agricultural object. 

I now use Simpson's cattle-spice, with considerable advan- 
tage, and hope to find that it will render unnecessary the 
purchase of expensive condimental food. 



STOCZ-PEEDING AND MEAT-MAKING (No. 2). 

I coNTiNUB my remarks on this subject. I have received 
several farm balance-sheets from able agriculturists, who 
cannot realize my results, and I have arrived at the conclu- 
sion that the allowing of live stock to roam over fields is a 
great miatake. Our sheep, including ewes, are always folded, 
the fold being changed twice daWy, &o\\i«.\> \Ni^^ ^ome on 
^esh ground, and do not go back, on \)ti^ ^^xjl\a^ ^^xoik^ 



ABTIFICIAL MA17I7BBS. 97 

Our bullocks are always under cover in sheds, either on 
paved floors or on sparred floors. 

I repeat here what I wrote twenty years ago : — ** What 
wouldl)e thought of a proposition that, our food being spread 
out for us in a clean condition, we should exercise upon it, 
sleep upon it, and deposit our excrement on it P " And yet 
that is what we cause our animals to do, and then wonder 
that they are not so profitable as we could desire. My suc- 
cessful practice proves to me that our farming system 
must undergo very great changes. It is a mere question of 
time, for old customs are not surrendered at discretion, but 
only succumb to a long siege: witness our great towns 
opposing railways as a nuisance, and now lamenting their 
folly. The success of this farm has arisen from a combina- 
tion of meat-making with corn-growing ; and unless those 
two are carried on concurrentlv, I am satisfied that farming 
will fail to reach its most aesirable position. The two 
systems must be united, for well-fed stock provide ample 
manure for corn-growing, while com gives abundant straw 
as food, or, if need be, of litter. On the arable principle we 
gain the very great advantage arising from tillage. This 
in our strong clays is the key to profit, for it is the phy- 
sical condition of such soils when undisturbed that causes 
them to be unproductive, either for grass or other pro- 
ducts. The exclusion of air is the cause of their infertility, 
for they possess otherwise the elements of large crops. 

The dependence on artificial manures is a great mistake, 
as compared with the use of well-made covered yard manure, 
especially where the land is at all adhesive. Said the 
ploughman of a large farmer in a neighbouring parish, who 
used to sell all his straw, and depend upon sheep and arti- 
ficials, " See how the soil sticks to the breast of tne plough, 
and refuses to leave it : that used not to be so when my 
master consumed his straw at home." 

There is great truth in this ; for on a distant field where 
I have depended principally on artificial manures the 
ploughing is always difficult, and the soil is benumbed and 
tenacious compared with others that have been treated with 
our shed manure. 

But to return to our stock: see what takes place when 
the animals, especially the sheep, are permitted to range at 
large. They rush into and over fresh feed, always pressing 
forward in search of the choicest morselS) dx%.^^^ ^^-^crcw 
and tramping on valuable growing i^\aai\A) XaSaai^ ^«xft ''^ 
pick out ah young, tender, unde^eVop^dL %Wdx^ otVws^'^'k^^^ 



98' PBOFITABLB PABMING. 

thus iDJuring the plant. Supposing we were to pluck off 
from our potted or other plants each tender or deyeloping 
leaf as soon as it appeared, would not the plant languisn or 
perish P So with the field-plant,, after giving up to the 
dainty sheep its undeyeloped parts. The growtn of the 
plants and roots is thus crippled, and some farmers have 
found out that keeping sheep constantly on growing cWer 
prevents that development of root which is so beneficial to 
the succeeding wheat crop. That is why some farmers say 
that they get better wheat after clover twice mowed than 
after a clover close fed all the season. 

Another great mistake is to feed our stock wholly or 
principally with hay or roots. It is the admixture witii 
dry food, and especially with straw-chaff, that enables me 
to keep so much stock and make so good a balance-sheet. 

But the system I commend and practise is one demanding 
a much greater concentration of capital than is our present 
practice. The tenant capital on this farm is at present £16 
per acre, and this is by no means sufficient for the attainment 
of the most profitable result. From £20 to £23 or £25 p^ 
acre would pay a larger percentage of profit, because then 
more stock could be kept, and more purchased food con- 
sumed, and the com would be more gradually sold than 
at* present; opportunities for purchase of either stock, 
cake, or feeding stuffs might be better availed of. Our 
notions about farm capital must soon undergo a great change 
and reform : £20 on one acre will pay much better than £20 
upon two acres, or £20 upon 4 acres, the latter being too often 
the case ; and to prove this I will in my next paper give the 
detailed balance-sheet of this farm for the year 1867, merely 
stating now that after paying every expense, including £46 
for the rent of forty-five acres of hired land, there will be a 
clear balance of nearly £700 to pay rent on the other 130 
acres, and profit on farm capital, which will be about 17 to 
18 per cent. A fair crop ana good price have made the year 
profitable. Discussing the other day the question of farm 
capital with a first-rate Norfolk farmer of 1,200 acres of light 
land, " Well," he said, " I don't see how much good can be 
done, even on a light-land farm, without a capital of £20 
per acre." But then he does not depend upon the mere 
growth of the farm to feed his stock, but purchases £3,600 
worth of cake annually. There is the test-point of profit. 
If the capital on tbis farm could be £24 or £25 per acre, 
every animal should be on sparred, ^oot^, «xi^ «^ ^<& %tmw 
should be consumedy— mixedi of coxune, m^ Q^«t I^a^^o^ 



STOCE-FBBDING. 99 

stuffs. This would make the farm more profitable, for expe- 
rience has taught me that it is great folly and mistake not to 
consume every stem of straw. But then that necessitates 
such an increased number of live stock that, although we 
have forty-four bullocks* and 180 sheep on 170 acres, the 
stock would have to be greatly increased. 

Corn-growing is dependent on meat-making, and the two 
operations should go hand-in-hand on every farm. But then 
what a change would take place! and what happy results 
would accrue to the landlord, tenant, labourer, implement- 
maker, and the food-consuming population of merry Englan^! ! 
•^Januanry 16. 

P.S. Speaking of potted plants, what would our heavy- 
land friends say (I mean those who deny the use or value of 
draining in strong clays) if I proposed to them to plug the 
hole in the bottom of the fiower-pots to prevent the escape of 
water P And yet that is the condition of their undrained 
clays. 

Sard Cake — Stock Feeding. — If animals could speak they 
would tell us that acorns, dry maize, and hard cake were very 
difficult to digest, and that the stomach was thus unduly 
taxed. Pig feeders have found that barley should be ground, 
and other food properly prepared. I have heard it stated 
that although dry beans will give cramp to pigs when con- 
fined, if soaked twenty-four hours thev would be good food. 
We are gradually coming to believe that it pays to prepare, 
by means of the steamer and chaff-cutter, much of the food 
of our animals. Farmers naturally prefer soft mucilaginous 
American linseed cake to very hard pressed cakes, whether 
made from linseed, cotton seed, or rape seed, and they are 
right ; but I propose in this paper to suggest a preventive 
of the evils arising from the use of hard cake. I purchased 
4 tons of fine yellow decorticated cotton cake, but it had 
been so hardly squeezed by the hydraulic press that it was 
like cast iron, and I found that, although passing through 
the cake-breaker, our eattle were not in uieir usual comfort- 
able condition. Having plenty of hot water always handy 
in our steaming coppers, where the chaff and other food are 
prepared, I ordered it to be soaked in hot water, and we 
were surprised at the great quantity of water it could absorb ; 
so we increased the supply until we found that wb&t ^«& 
soaked at night would, in tlie moTiim^,\BJ^^^'^^*^^'^^*^ 

* Twelve of these sold f t^ t^t CbsAitasAa* 

H 2 



100 PSOFITABLB FABMING. 

soup, and even then it wanted mucli stirring- to detach the 
lumps from each other and gradually reduce them. The 
porridge thus made was poured over and intermixed with 
the chaff. A very marked improvement was soon observed 
in the cattle, which seemed more at their ease, and their 
coats smooth and healthy. It is quite clear to my mind that 
all dark, hard cotton, or other cakes should be thus softened 
and prepared, and much loss would be avoided, and par- 
ticularly with dark, hard cotton cake. I hope this informa- 
tion may be useful to my brother farmers. Let me give 
warning against giving cut pea straw to horses. I once lost 
a fine horse by the greedy ploughman giving a full feed of 
cut green pea straw chaff, which was intended for our 
bullocks. The same thing occurred to a neighbour's horse 
three days since. His horse is expected to die. Professor 
Yoelcker informs me that he has found hard dry cake packed 
tight in the lower bowels of animals that have died from 
this cause. Hard dry Egyptian beans will soak up very 
much water, so will maize. — Oct. 27, 1868. 



OUE MEAT CONSUMPTION, AND OUE POWEE 
OE INCEEASING SUPPLIES. 

Having promised to read a paper before the London 
Farmers* Club in November next, "On the Undeveloped 
Power of British Agriculture," I have been trying to " take 
stock " of our present agricultural position, and, as a part of 
it, our present meat production. This was by no means an 
easy task ; for upon making inquiries of those whom I con- 
sidered competent authorities, I found either an inability to 
satisfy my request, or the most discrepant computations ; so 
at last I came to the conclusion that the only reliable test, 
and that a rather imperfect one, was to take the population 
and the cattle census together. 

On the completion of my task I was much gratified 

by the perusal of an admirable paper on the same subject, 

read before the Society of Arts by Mr. Wentworth Lascelles 

Scott, on the 19th ult., which every one interested should 

jDaruse. Singularly enough, his estimate and my own as to 

net weight of c&ttle per head (400 lb.) were exactly similar, 

although we differed 6 lb. eacn m tYi© "m».\.\«t ^i ^^^\ but 

I accept his weight (46 lb.) of tiie laUex aa ^T0^i^'5 ^^ tm5»N» 



HEAT COKSTJMFTION. 101 

correct/seeing that there would be so many young lambs at 
the time of the census. I agree with Mr. Scott in the 
melancholy conclusion that the amount of British meat 
available for consumption is only two ounces per head per 
day for the whole population. I would add to that half an 
ounce per head per day of foreign imported fresh meat (dead 
and alive). 

I am sorry to say that my estimate of meat consumed by 
our agricultural labouring population (of all ages and sexes) 
is only one ounce per head per day, or a mere fraction 
beyond that. Taking a man, his wife, and three children as 
an average, 35 oz. per week would be, in my opinion, a just 
calculation, and the meat would be almost entirely pork or 
bacon. To show how widely discrepant are opinions on this 
matter, I quote an extract from a letter I received from an 
eminent London butcher : — 

" I have given your letter some consideration, and I asked 
the opinion of one or two of our leading men at market. 
We think 8 oz. each, as near as can be, the amount of dailj 
consumption for 30 millions. The allowance to the army is 
three-quarters of a lb. of beef per man per day, and the navy 
rather more. Our prisons, also, are pretty well supplied in 
quantity, though inferior in quality ; as also our workhouses, 
infirmaries, scnools, and all large collections in our public 
institutions. I cannot conceive you can be much nearer 
the mark than 8 oz. each. We are great meat-eaters, all who 
can set it, in this country, and get it they do, one way or 
another." 

This rather astonished me, being much more than cent, per 
cent, upon my own estimate : so I calculated how much 8 oz.per 
day would amount to, at 6id, per lb., and found it to be 
£148,250,200; and as I agree with Mr. Scott's estimate, that our 
total available annual home supply is only 1,281,468,000 lb., 
it will amount, at 6|c?. per lb., to only £34,706,425. F Adding 
probably for foreign imports^ live and dead, £10,000,000, 
we have a sum of £44,706,425, or 100 millions sterling short 
of my butcher friend's calculation. When we consider how 
large is the consumption of meat in our towns and 
cities by the upper ten thousand and by all well-to-do 
classes, millions must fall short of the average of 2^ oz. 
daily — even making due allowance for infants, so that we 
hardly deserve nationally the title of "John Bull." 

There is no difficulty in pointing out how our meat soj^'t^l^ 
might be largely increased, witTa. ipto^ti \;Q ^^ l"ttra\et ^sA.'*^.- 
vantage to the public. I will quot© ^i^ia e«A^ oi >iv>^^\'«s:ci'"^>»* 



102 PBOFITABLB FABHIKG. 

an illustration; many others could be found in yarious 
counties of the kingdom, but this farm, being much below 
the average naturfd quality of the soil of the kingdom} 
affords a safe illustration. 

The quantity of meat made annually on this farm is 200 lb. 
per acre, landlord's measure, over the whole farm ; at 6^d» 
per lb., gives £5. 8«. 4d. per acre. At this rate the census 
return of 1867, giving 45,491,097 acres in crop, fallow, and 
grass, would give a return in meat of £246,410,107, as 
against our present £34,706,426. 

But this farm also produces in com, within the same area, 
this year, £7 per acre, landlord's measure, which would give, 
on the 

45,491,097 acres in money valae jff3l8,437,079 

The avera^ annual value of all our com crops, I862 

to I860 inclusive (6 years) was 86,369,477 

Margin for improvement in com .. .. 4^238,068,202 

This shows what can be done, and done profitably too ; 
but there is no fear of our arriving hastily at such over- 
whelming results, however desirable they may be for the 
happiness and welfare of the people. 

J3efore we can even approach to such a desideratum a 
whole host of prejudices must be removed, and old customs 
changed. This must be left to the eiflux of time, the force 
of public opinion, and the too obvious necessity for providing 
food and employment for our ever-increasing millions. At 
all events, the vast margin for improvement, shown by the 
facts in this letter, must awaken us as to our agricultural 
shortcomings. There is no lack of capital in this country, 
for it flows over into many others. Let agriculture put itself 
into a position to tempt it into a remunerative stream. 

1867 : United Kingdom census — ^taken after lambing :— > 

Cows and heifers in calf 3,557,812 

Otlier cattle 6,137,600 

8,695,412 

Sheep 33,745,116 

Pigs 4,200,873 

Mr. Scott's estimated weight of meat : — 

Cattle 400lb.1 

5/ieep and Iambs ^^ «* >««£&.. 

Swine. , , . , , • , . . • • • ^^ »» j 



TOWN 8BWAOB. 103 

His estimate is that tlie annual number slaughtered can- 
not exceed 23 per cent, of the existing live stock. 
The total margin for improvement is thus :— 

Inmeat 4^211.703,673 

In corn 335,068,202 

4^446,771*874 

At page 323 of my book (1860) I estimated our margin 
for improvement at £421,000,000. 

As our total area in the United Kingrdom is . . . . 77,513,586 acres 
And the censas of I867 only takes account of . . 45,401,007 „ 

We have, in addition to my calculation .. .. 32,023,428 „ 

— a considerable space for improvement. — March, 1868. 

Italian IRye-grass Sewaged. — 10th June. I am now cut- 
ting for hay, Italian rye-grass, four feet high, from which I 
calculate on 3^ tons of hav per acre. Last year we cut it on 
the 28th of May, and on the 31st carted 15 tons off five acres. 
The stubble of the grass is almost like that of com. How I 
wish that I had the command of a sewer. How it would add 
to the profits of my farm. Sewaged Italian rye-grass hay 
surpasses in nutrition the very best grass or clover hay. 
Surely, then, it is the duty as well as the interest of every 
corporation to apply all human voidances to the production 
of milk or other food for the people. The law will no longer 
permit the poisoning of our rivers. 



TOWN SEWAGE. 

Mb. J. C. Morton has done good service to the cause of 
agricultural progress by recording and publishing his "Ex- 
perience with 300,000 tons of London Sewage at the Lodge 
i^arm at Barking." These records prove that 100 tons of 
sewage will produce 1 ton of Italian rye-grass, worth lis, 
(over and above the natural products of the land) ; that it is 
a suitable manure for cereal, root, and other crops, if applied 
at the right time ; that these 100 tons of sewage, affcer 
fertilizing the soil, still contain additional unused elemenlB 
of fertility. 

Mr. M!orton has omitted to o«\fiX)\«X.^ \hi<& ^i&^^ ^ "^^ 
manure resulting from the coTiauTa^VASWiol ^^^^^^^^^^^^ 



104 PBOPITABLB FASMING. 

rye-grass. Mr. Lawes estimates tlie manorial yalae obtained 
from the consumption of 1 ton of mangel as 5«. ; 1 ton of 
clover hay, 45^.; 1 ton of meadow hay, 30s, We may fairly 
estimate the residuum of a ton of Italian rye-grass at 10s, 

I hope Mr. Morton will in a future paper record the cost 
of pumping per 1,000 tons, and the cost of laying out the 
land to receive the sewage. I would also beg of hmi to act 
upon Baron Liebig's admirable suggestion,* and try the 

* I reckon thafc Pernyian guano contains u per cent, of nitrogen (=17 am> 
monia), 12 per cent, phosphoric acid, and 6-l0th8 per cent, of pota^. 
Professor Way analyzed the water of two sewers— one in Dorset Square, and 
the other in Barrett's Court — and found in 1 gallon of sewer water : — 

Barrett's Court. Dorset Square. 

Ammonia 41*18 grains .. 17*96 grains 

Phosphoric acid . . .. 10'44 „ .. 4*17 „ 

Potash 4818 „ .. S'32 „ 

The difference in the contents of the two sewers is very great, for the first con- 
tains 29 more ammonia and phosphoric acid, and 16 times as much potuh as 
the other. According to the analysis of Dr. Hofftnan, Franckland, and others, I 
am of opinion that I may take the contents of the Dorset Square sewer water 
as the average standard for my calculation. From the above figures it results 
that 101 tons (20,200 gallons) of this sewer water contains the same amount of 
phosphoric acid, more than 3 times as much ammonia, and 16 times as mudk 
I>otash as 1 cwt. of best Peruvian g^ano. 
It will be observed that there is a great difference in the proportion of phos- 

ghoric acid to ammonia in guano and sewer water. In guano this proportion 
I 6 parts of phosphoric acid to 8^ parts of ammonia; in sewer water this 
proportion is 6 parts of phosphoric acid to 26 parts of ammonia. The reason 
of this disproportion in the amount of phosphoric acid and ammonia in sewer 
water is at once perceived, if we remember that the bones of the slaughtered 
animals do not find their way into the sewers. These bones are, however, the 
manuring matter in which phosphoric acid abounds ; and their component 
parts, let it be well understood, must be given back to the fields if it be 
intended that the soil shall retain its fertility. Potash and ammonia are, 
according to their prices, far more costly manures than phosphates, and in 
many cases quite as necessary for the field as the latter can be. Potash and 
ammonia are wholly inefficient and useless without the presence of phosphoric 
acid, but with the addition of phosphate they become efficient and valuable. The 
manufacturer of manure is not able to supply potash and ammonia to the 
farmer in sufficient quantity, and at an available price ; but it is easy for him 
to collect the bones and make up the deficiency of phosphate by drawing it 
from natural sources. 

It will, I think, be now perceptible what connection there is between the 
manufacture of superphosphate and the utilization of sewage. If the fanner 
add to the sewer water the phosphate which is wanting in it, the efficiency of 
the water will be increased. Thus, 101 tons of sewer water, to which 120 lb. 
of superphosphate have been added, are equivalent to 305 lb. of Peruvian 
g^ano, and the value of the sewer water will be 305 lb. of guano, at 
4ii?l3. I2f . 6d. a ton, 498 pence j from this subtract the price of 120 lb. of super- 
phosphate, at £5, 68., 76 pence, which gives the value of 101 tons sewer water, 
422 pence, or 4d. for 1 ton. It must not be forgotten that sewerage without the 
addition of phosphate is of much less value, because, if the farmer were to grive 
the soil, in sewerage, as much phosphoric acid as is in 305 lb. of guano, he 
would have to apply 305 tons of sewer water (instead of lOl tons), which 
would give the value of id. per ton. I am of opinion that the proportion of 
smmonia which is brought into the soil by dressing the land with Peruvian 

graano is much too large, and even noxious lot txxtuxe cxo^%\ bxiX this does not 

beloDg to the present question. 



PIPB, HOSB, AND JET. 105 

application of superphosphate of lime to a portion of the land 
on which the sewage is poured. I agree with the Baron that 
it would much more than double the value of the sewage, 
but it is highly desirable to have this proved where so good 
an opportunity for comparison exists. 

These Lodge Farm experiments confirm the statement I 
made before Dr. Brady's Parliamentary Committee, that the 
sewage contained the elements for all crops. This was much 
doubted at that time. 

I am by no means satisfied that the wasteful mode of 
flooding is the most proper or economical mode of diffusing 
the sewage. 

I have had twenty years' experience with pipe, hose, and 

1*et, and still consider that the most economic method. 
Laving regard to the value of the sewage. Our steam fire- 
engines discharge one ton and a half of water per minute ; 
my own small jet half a ton per minute. Two men could 
thus easily apply 900 tons of sewage in a day on an acre of 
grass. We must remember that, according to the evidence 
of competent engineers, given before Lord Eobert Montagu's 
Committee, 1,0()0 tons of sewage can be raised 300 feet high 
at a cost of only ISs, to 14«. A single pound of coal in a 
steam-engine will raise 100,000 gallons of sewage, or 1,000,000 
pounds of water, a foot high. 

The time will coipe when every farmer or landholder who 
has the opportunity will be willing to pay a Id, or more per ton 
for sewage, and lay down pipes at his own cost to convey it 
to his own land. Thus ten acres will not only produce as 
much grass as fifty or sixty acres, but will supply him with 
manure for his other crops. He will place himself in a 
similar position to those who now receive and pay for supplies 
of gas and water. It is only a question of time and belief; 
for we must remember that some of our towns and villages 
have taken fifty years to consider whether it would answer 
their purpose to use gas. I therefore give 100 years to the 
sewage question, which is not verv long in the history of a 
nation. We were thirty years learning to grow and eat 
potatoes, about the same period in adopting Tull's drill, and 
!Baron Liebig tells us that when the German Government 
officers came to ascertain the results of the growth of clover 

ithen a newly-introduced seed) it was found that some 
armers had boiled the seed to prevent its growing, and thus 
attempted to verify their prediction that it would never grow 
in Germany. 
If I am not wrongly informed, ^OTSi^MKvci^ \^^^ *v^>a» ^^- 



106 PBOFITABLB FABMING. 

corred with the Leicester Sewage Manure Company: 
owing to the influence of a prejudiced individual, it was 
years before the farmers would buy any of the manure. 

The exhaustion of our soil is proverbial. Every fanner 
wants more manure, and what little he gets artificially costs 
him much of his profit. The three millions of Londoners 
consume the produce of six to seven millions of acres, land- 
lord's measure, and thus exhaust one-seventh of the agricul- 
tural area of the kingdom. — March, 1868. 

Me. Mechi's Farming not a *^ Private ** Affair. — Mr. 
B. says, " If he [Mr. Mechi] parades his private affairs 
before the public, he challenges criticism." Now, I main- 
tain that my farming never was intended to be a private 
affair ; for twenty-five years ago, when I first wrote a letter 
in your columns, I distinctly stated that my object was to 
test the value of agricultural improvements, especially as a 
means of providing more food and more employment for my 
fellow-countrymen, and that I should publish my balance- 
sheets as an evidence. It would be absurd to parade my 
'* private " affairs before the public. I by no means object 
to criticism on my public affairs. — February, 1869. 

Burned Clay Ashes are true farmers* friends on heavy 
land ; they descend gradually into the sub-soil beneath the 
ploughed land, fertilising it and rendering it more porous 
and acceptable to the roots of our plants. Twenty years of 
experience have taught me that nothing pays better than 
burning our stiff* tile clays in dry weather, especially where 
it is mixed with a hodge-podge of stones. From a state 
poisonous to plants, it passes, by burning, - into a fruitful 
condition. Worthless pastures ploughed lightly and burned, 
become fruitful and productive fields. How remarkable is 
the change produced in stiff* clays by burning. Cold, wet, 
heavy, and adhesive or slippery, according to weather, they 
at once become friable, non-adhesive, warm, and dry. 



A SUGGESTIVE WALK. 

Jawuary 13, 1868. — Ten days of snow and severe frost 

have disappeared suddenly under the influence of a heavy 

r&in from the south-west, and to-da^ t\ie^ «\ui shines bril- 

liADtly, Aa is my custom undeT axiou. QVxc.uT&aXAXintti^^'L «S3&.- 



A SUGaBSTIYE WALE. 107 

mine every drain, see that the open ditches and water-ways 
are all clear of impediments, and observe how the wheat 
looks, either above or below ground, according to the period 
of sowing. The wheat was satisfactory. I found all the 
drains running briskly, except on the wheat fields that have 
been cross-ploughed, and, when dry, ploughed into form. 
In these the drains barely wept, owmg to the extra drying 
resulting from the cross-plougning. Heavy land can never 
be too dry in winter, and the absence of flooding rains this 
fine autumn makes me look forward with satisfaction and 
hope for the coming wheat crop. Although my seventy- 
three acres of wheat have been nearly all drilled with a full 
bushel of seed per acre, and none of it put in before No- 
vember (some as late as December), it all appears to vegetate 
satisfactorily, and confirms my friend Wilkins's opinion, that 
well-ripened and well-cleansed seeds of grain seldom fail to 
germinate. 

By the bye, if wheat should come right next harvest, there 
will be plenty of it, for nearly every farmer I have spoken 
to who had the opportunity of so doing has sown an extra 
breadth, say about 10 to 20 per cent. more. I have an extra 
ten acres. 

The past autumn has contrasted most favourably with the 
f<nrmer one, by the absence of floods ; let us hope that this 
winter will also be more propitious, for my drains kept run- 
ning the first three months of 1867. As I examined the 
running drains I said to myself, ** How can people be found 
to farm heavy land that is undrained P " The difierence iAm 
last harvest is, in many oases, fully one quarter to two quar- 
ters of wheat per acre, and in fact one field of seventeen 
ticres not far from me has only yielded one quarter of wheat 
per acre, while my average on naturally inferior land was five 
quarters per acre, and this at from 60s, to SOs. per quarter! 

The farm to which I allude belongs to a London charity, 
of which I was once a governor ; but both the present and 
the preceding tenant have declined to have it drained, be- 
cause it would be of no use on such heavy soils ! Here 
is a case where despotic power should come into play, 
and where a man should not be allowed to ruin himself 
and his family. How many other such cases I know of in 
our country ! 

But to return to my fields : here in a nine-acre field was a 
proof of how cheaply and sufficiently a man may drain at & 
small cost where capital is scarce, or '?i\iet^ V^^Sa \^^\. ^«t\aoRi. 
of a long tenure. Twenty odd yeaxE «l^o \ ^x^Jk^^^'^s^^s^^ 



108 PSOFITABLB FASMINa. 

with one-inoli pipes, five feet deep, and forty feet apart, at & 
cost of 50f. per acre. Many a man who looked into these 
drains before filling up, and saw at five feet from the surface 
*' Mechi's pencil-cases," ridiculed the idea of water ever 
reaching them in that tenacious tile- earth at such a depth 
and at such a distance, and yet to-day (as hitherto) there 
they were discharging from the leaders heavy streams of 
water. And here some Scotch and other farmers who have 
"pitched into me" for having open farrows and water 
furrows might have learned a lesson, and seen that, although 
the deep drains were discharging abundantly, still the sur- 
face drains were, as auxiliaries, passing off the surplus water 
which the land would not absoro withm a given time. This 
is why sundry Scotch farmers have injured their crops in 
this county by laying their land fiat, not considering that 
ihej have no such clay in Scotland as our Essex tile-earths. 
An intelligent Scotch farmer, who purchased a 300-acre farm 
in Essex, admitted to me the other day that he had found 
himself wrong in laying such heavy land on the fiat. I, in 
the first instance, tried an acre in several fields to satisfy my 
mind, and soon found out the truth — ^that the land for a year 
or two afterwards was tough and unfriable, and worked 
badly. Then I reflected upon what my heavy land friends 
say, that on such lands they cannot do without numerous 
open ditches. My own experience has convinced me that it 
is a great mistake to have any open ditch where the run of 
water can be passed through an underground pipe. I have 
closed up every ditch (excepting a main outfall), and thus 
saved ground and expense. For see what takes place with 
open ditches generally: they are tortuous, soon filled up 
with grass, rashes, or pieces of bushes, or rubbish blown 
into them ; these hide the drains. I am bound in honesty 
to say that immense neglect takes place in regard to keeping 
ditches and drains free and clear, and a very costly neglect 
it is. Every lease should compel this, and they rarely do. 
As a rule, ditches, from the causes I have named, are many 
times as large and deep as they need be. The rain that falls 
per acre is a measurable quantity ; therefore pipes can be 
placed in size and distance accordingly. With very long 
drains it is necessary to have air-shafts, for certain heavy 
rainfalls, much as we have vent-pegs in our casks, or the 
liquor will not run freely. 

On another farm near mine there is a difierence of more 

than one quarter of wheat pet acxe \>e\»^eexi t\\A drained and 

undramed fields, the annual ckwc^e iot ^T«:vDMi%>a«N5i%Qiiii 



ASPHALTED 7L00B8. 109 

68. to 7s, Although I do not recommend draining at forty 
feet and fifty feet apart in stiff clays, where there is capital 
enough to do it closer, yet, although the land does not harrow 
so well or so early as the closer drained, the water does 
not stagnate, and consequently I have had very good crops 
for the last twenty years from the land so drained. 

Harly Working of Land, — " I never did try it and I 
never mil, for I know it won't answer." This is what I am 
told by many a practical farmer, who wonders how I can 
work my land so early in the season, and cannot make out 
why his own is so backward ; and when I tell him to drain 
his stiff land, he makes the above reply. It is certainly a 
very costly sentence, but I need hardly say that my experi- 
ence has taught me that it is useless to argue with such per- 
sons. They must be left to the influence of time on either 
themselves or their successors. — February 10. 

Taper Fipes, — These have been exhibited at our great 
exhibitions, and praised for their good qualities. I have tried 
them for some years, and on taking them up have found 
them useless, collapsed wholly or partially, and the layers of 
paper separated. These were used for carrying spring water 
through a dense clay. I have had no experience with them 
in any other way. They were about 5 inches diameter. I 
only used a few yards of these as a trial. 

Asphalted Floors. — ^Among the thousand-and-one little 
matters that tend to make farming profitable, are asphalted 
floors. In summer, when large quantities of green food, 
either tares, green beans, or Italian rye-grass are passed 
through the chaff-cutter, they require to be spread on thinly, 
or they will heat and spoil, and the cattle will not eat them ; 
they can be shovellea up clean and free from grit on the 
asphalted floor. The steam-driven chaff-cutter will in two 
hours prepare food enough for three days, and succulent 
food is improved by losing some of its moisture, especially 
in wet weather. For dry chaff and all kinds of corn the 
asphalted floor presents the great advantage of perfect dryness ; 
not 80 with bricked or earthen floors. Therefore all chaff 
bins and granaries should be asphalted when in contact with 
the ground. On the score of economy the advantage is 
immensely in favour of asphalte, for near the ^o\uid^Q<A^\^ 
£oors win rot and are a hiaTboui iox t^\a ^ti^ts£^^^« ^^iaI^ 



110 FBOFITjLBLB fasmutg. 

cannot gnaw aspbalte. One's poaltrr-hoase floor is decidedly 
more cleanly and healthy when asphalted, and more seeme 
from rats. All bam floors should be asphalted. The eoet 
with us is about 2s. per yard of nine feet for one inch in 
thickness ; where heavy carts pass over it should be at leait 
two inches thick. One I have had in use for many years, 
and very roughly used, is still in good order. Landlords 
would And it most economical for their new buildines. I 
have not yet used it as a floor for cattle, &c., but hear wat it 
answers well for piggeries. Where sacks of com are placed 
against bricked walls, the walls should be smeared with 
asphalte to the height of the sacks. Where good sifted 
gravel and some lime are available, the cost of the concrete 
basis is trifling. Some dry grit or road stufl* is required to 
mix with the asphalte and give it substance, and to prevent 
its cracking or melting in the sun. In our case about three 
barrowfuls of road grit are used to each copper of asphalte. 
The asphalte is, I believe, the produce from gas-making. Time 
seems to have no eflect upon asphalte, so far as weather is 
concerned. I once made a dung-heap upon my asphalted 
bam floor, to enable a foreign gentleman to try his experi- 
ments. The mass heated tremendously ; the floor, however, 
only suflered a partial abrasion of its surface, so that it 
would appear to be safe as an ordinary basis for cattle dung. 
I presume we are all gradually arriving at the conclusion 
that if we are to make meat cheaply, it must be by com- 
mending our green and root crops, and keeping our cattie 
and manure under cover. — Julif, 1867. 

WoooTs Mowing Machine, — I have lust been inspecting 
the working of this mower in cutting clover. My neighbour, 
a young farmer, has worked it himself, and unaided has just 
flnished fifty acres of clover and grass, the machine appear- 
ing none the worse for wear. It is a two-horse mower ; the 
quantity cut, six acres per day. . Two pairs of horses are re- 
quired. My neighbour was accustomed to work these 
machines in the United States. He said the cost of the 
machine was £22, or, if hired. Us. per day. It was, when 
I saw it, working across the furrows and stetches — the 
ground, a yellow clay, being as hard as cast-iron ; and as it 
dropped into a furrow every seven feet with a sudden dip 
or " bounce," the machine and my young neighbour were 
" well shaken,** to say nothing of angular and deep water 
farrowB. I heard him complam oi \>evii^ i^oTa«^\!k»fc tender 
behind. The wonder to me "waa tlaafc V\x© xoajJcMi^ cQ\i\.W^\ 



FUBBOWS AND WATBB-FUBBOWS. Ill 

together nnder such a repetition of violent shootiB— >tlie 
horses walking fully four mues per hour. The first thing my 
neighbour foond out was that the tool box of the machine 
was not half large enough, and that as it had no lid the con- 
cussion sent the contents flying iiito the air. These two 
defects he at once remedied. The maker should take a note of 
this. The knives are of the same kind and action as Hussey's 
reaper, which I used for ten years until worn out ; the work 
was well done. The crop was not heavy. He had cut some 
very heavy laid crops. It was necessary to take these in 
flank, or in an opposite direction to that in which they were 
laid. The knives had to be ground at least once a day, so 
that the two sets only lasted sharp one day. It would be 
weU to have two extra sets. Eiline these up will not do for 
grass. We can easily appreciate the importance of a sharp 
edge for a clean cut : witness the constant sharpening of the 
sc^he to correct the loss of edge. It is a great mistake to 
go blundering on with a dull tool, causing severe work to 
the horses, and an imperfect wasteful cutting. The grind- 
stone should be of a flue grit, and a little management is re- 
quired to bring the knives to the edge of the stone. Great 
care is required to see frequently to tighten the nuts and 
screws that have worked loose by the frequent concussions, 
or they will be lost. In this, as in all machinery, intelligent 
observation and attention are required. It certainly is most 
convenient to have such a machine when your ordinary 
labourers are insufficient for the work to be done. It also 
checks an exorbitant demand of price for labour, and renders 
the former less dependent in this respect. On level ground the 
work is easy, and the wear trifling — a wonderful contrast to 
the rockine, bumping, twisting, and jumping on the deep 
farrowed, hard, undrained days. The oil-can is frequency 
wanted. — 1*^ July, 1867. 

Furrows and Water'-fitrrows,'-''Leit me not be misxm- 
derstood. Our Essex stetches are 7 feet 2 inches wide, 
and are, or ought to be, ploughed flat and level. The furrow 
is only of 9-inch width, and, after harrowing and seeding, 
about 4 inches deep. In the spring, after horse-hoeing, 
harrowing, and rolling, the land is as nearlv as possible level, 
as may be seen by the crops evenly ripened at harvest. This 
is a very diflerent aflair from the mounds and valleys of the 
midland coimties' imdrained land. — March^ 1B6^. 



112 PBOFITABLB FASMING. 

The Tiptree Balance-sheet is not a shadowy matter of 
idea or imaginatioD, for I draw oat in hard cash the available 
balance, and use it for my private purposes, not con- 
nected with the farm. This fact disposes of many critical 
discussions and opinions. — March. 

The Critical or Finishing-up jRwe.— As the period of 
protrusion and final development of the ear approaches, then 
we perceive the difference between - drained, deeply culti- 
vated, well-manured land, and others where non-drainage, 
weediness, shallow ploughing, and deficient manuring pre- 
vail. The money contrast must now be estimated by pounds 
and not shillings per acre, for this year the difference is un- 
usually great, owing to the very wet and cold spring. There 
are seasons when the difference between drainage and non- 
drainage is not so perceptible; I mean when a very dry 
summer cracks the tenacious clays so widely and deeply that 
the moisture from below escapes by evajporation from the 
sides of the fissures. The non-crackmg of heavy undrained 
clays this year is an unfortunate occurrence. Saturated 
mud from the bottom of a pond, when spread out and ex- 
posed to the sun, becomes full of wide fissures, and gr^es 
one an illustration of the condition of imdrained clays aftor 
a wet season. — July, 1867. 

Dressing and Blowing Machines,'^'We all know the value 
of the dressing-machine, but the blower, with its powerftil 
blast, is less ouen used. It is only when we do use it that 
we find how many imperfect kernels and seeds of particular 
weeds have failed to be extracted or separated from the com 
by the dressing-machine. This was illustrated to-day when 
we were blowing white peas that had passed through two 
dressing-machines, and would, in nine cases out of ten, have 
been considered clean enough for sowing, although there was 
still among them an abundant supply of heavy seeds of 
weeds that the dressing-machine blast was not strong enough 
to remove. I quite believe that, as a rule, we are much too 
negligent in this matter, and that we actually sow our weeds, 
and, of course, are punished by a crop of them. The blower 
also gives evidence of the large number of imperfect grains 
which, if merely taken after the dressing-machme, would be 
part of our seed, and would thus produce feeble or imperfect 
plants. We should do with seed as we do with animals, 
choose the most perfect parenta, \^ "we «c© V> ^em^ \\i^ most 
faronrahle result. I know, at tYoB momBiiV.* ol iwiasst^ ^\iSi^ 



GRASS OB ABjLBLbP 113 

because corn is dear, are sowing refuse grain, as a matter 
of economy I Against this I now enter my protest.— Oc^o5ery 
1867. 

Grass or AraMe? — ^We have often asked ourselves this 
question, and have most decidedly given the verdict in favour 
of arable in our soil and climate. It is, in fact, a 
question of soil and climate. Nature points out to us 
where grass thrives naturally. On such soils as ours (yellow 
plastic clay full of iron and without lime or chalk), and a dry 
cereal climate, the natural grasses are of the worst (][uality. 
The addition of calcareous matter improves them, but this costs 
about £5 per acre. By sowing choice grass seeds and clovers 
at intervals, and by heavy folding or feeding with fattening 
sheep, we manage to make about fourteen acres pretty good 
for accommodating our stock. On soils so difficult for grass 
we can, by our manure or guano, produce an average of 

5 qrs. of wheat and 2 tons of straw ; and in a choice season 

6 to 7 qrs. of wheat, and 2\ tons straw, 6 to 7 of beans, and 
10 to 12 qrs. of black oats. As the great bulk of all kinds of 
our straw, particularly bean and pea straw, is finely chaffed 
and consumed, we are very independent of hay, although we 
have at this moment 44 bullocks and 180 sheep on 170 acres, 
and a very moderate breadth of roots and cabbage. If all 
our farm were in grass, it would hardly be enough for this 
stock, and yet we grow nearly or quite 600 qrs. of com 
annually. According to our best recent authoritv (Mr. Caird, 
p. 521), we have in England alone (omitting Wales, Scotland, 
Ireland, and Middlesex), 13,000,000 of acres on grass (not 
used for the ^owth of com), and only 14,000,000 of acres 
arable. Judging from my own experience on this farm 
(and of course on similarly situate lands in England) the 
growth of pasture instead of com inflicts a heavy loss on the 
country. Poor grass-land requires a minimum of capital, 
and produces a minimum of food for the people. Neither 
does it employ much labour, nor so many implements as 
arable land. I broke up a small area of improntable grass, 

Eared and burned it, and have for many years drawn from it 
eavy crops of corn, pulse, and roots. The difference in 
expense of management is more than compensated by the 
increased value of such crops ; and especially such a year as 
this, where I have ^vq quarters of wheat, six of barley, nine 
of oats, and five to six of beans. At present high prices ^qc 
grass land is completely distaiiced. 0\« ^^^-^^^I^^^^^s 
arable land ia not using the straw ai^ ioo^,'^^ V>kv^\^^'^^^^^ 



>Xft. 



114 PBOFITABLB FABMIVG. 

would be tripled as compared witli throwing it down in eart- 
loads as great mops for the rainfall, and water from mi- 
trou^hed roofs. Farmers often express surprise at how I 
can find food for so much stock, but when they see 100 to 
150 bushels of fine cut straw-chaff (wheat, bean, oat, or 
barley), mixed with bran, malt combs, cake, linseed, bean- 
meal, and condimental food consumed by the stock daily, 
thej cease to be surprised, and many go and do likewise. 
This is the way to feed and employ the Britishpeople, and 
to find use for our yearly increasing capital. Tne paatunl 
system (except under certain circumstances) is no longer 
adapted to the welfare and requirements of our crowded and 
meat-consuming population. Although I grow 600 qrs. of 
com annually, I stiU make much more meat than is usually 
produced from grass-farms equal to mine in extent, on whida 
no corn is grown. — November, 1867. 



THE AGEICULTUEAL LABOUBEB. 
Essex. — ^Able-bodied labourers earn annually as follows : — 

Ploughmen 4^42 per aimiuii. 

Shepherds 44 4 „ 

Day labourers 45 8 „ 

Women— working aboat half the year from 8 

t05 8 4 „ 

These are the current wages of this neighbourhood. Some 
deductions must be made for an occasional loss of time. 
My own men seldom lose a week in a year. Where men 
have no piecework their earnings are rather less. The dail^ 
wages and harvest wages would be reduced when wheat is 
cheaper. When at 40«. per quarter, wages are at 9«. to lOf. 
per week. It is calculated that wages should represent the 
value of a bushel of second-class wheat-flour, which is now 
about 128, per bushel. This estimate is not far from tiie 
truth. Our agricultural labourers contrast favourably with 
many classes of town labourers, who have to pay Zs. 6d. to 
4i8, 6d, a week for a couple of confined rooms, while the 
agricultural labourer has the advantage of his garden and 
small detached house, at a small rent, with pure air, but not 
always pure water, which is a sad and unprofitable want. 
Second'claaa, or old and infirm men, geV, o^ <&oTn%«^ Tedaced 
wages. Very few women ai© empVo"5©^ ^\i^^^\»5ws'«,%awSL 



LABOTTBBBS' COTTAGES. 115 

these only at light work, weeding, stone-picking, pea-picking, 
and at harvest, bean-cutting, and gleaning. A great many 
are employed at trouser-making, having 4^(1, per pair, but- 
toning, and button-holeing, and making up strong white 
fustian trousers. They earn about Is, per day. Most 
of our labourers can neither read nor write, especially 
those above thirty. Within the last fifteen years we have 
established schools, much to the advantage of the rising gene- 
ration. I am convinced that, if these schools were free, 
there would be a better attendance, for the labourer with a 
large family has little to spare. "No doubt the rising gene- 
ration, who have tasted tne sweets of education, will be 
more anxious to educate their children than those who have 
themselves had no such advantage. I am decidedly in favour 
of an educational rate in aid, for at present the keeping up 
of the school acts as a heavy tax upon the benevolent and 
right-minded, while many a rich old screw escapes any 
charge, although he may have his full share of benefit. 
It appears to me that one might as well spply the voluntary 
principle to the mending of our roads. Ii, nationally, edu- 
cation is looked upon as a necessity, why not, nationally, 
provide for itP The building of cottages is too generally 
left to be done by itinerant persons, who, purchasing a piece 
of land, curtail the garden to ten rods of ground, which is 
much too little : twenty rods, or even thirty, are not too 
much where there is a family. Bricked cottages are built in 
pairs, and generally cost about £120 to £150 the pair, the 
rent about five guineas annually. There is seldom any pro- 
vision for water. Most of the ancient cottages are mere 
hovels, in a state of dilapidation, with thatched roof, and 
props to prevent their falling. They are built of either clay 
or lath and plaster. There is scarcely one that has a pump 
or water cistern. Fortunately drainage has tapped some 
springs, which thus flow for miles down a brook, and our 
water is of a very good quality. Our Legislature should 
insist on a proper water supply to each cottage, for I know 
that much sickness and death arise from impure water. 
The privies are in some cases absolutely open to public view, 
owing to their dilapidation. Most cottages are deficient in 
bedrooms. In some cases a curtain alone separates the 
parents from the rest of the family, and there is generally 
much indecent propinquity and absence of ventilation. The 
inferior cottages are let at Is, to 1«. Sd. ^et 'tj^^. 'Y's^aNsRi^ 
cottages have only two bedrooms. "SR^ Vk^^ T^a ^Qsr^^siA ^ 
labour in this neighbourhood. "We \i»N^ ^xi«^ <2vjnx^'»^^^- 

1 2 



116 PBOFITABLB FjIBMING. 

tory, and school, and several new chapels. Our new chnrcfa, 
to hold 500, is filled every Sunday afternoon, and the chapels 
are also well attended. — May, 1868. 



TO THB BDITOB OF THB " TIMBS." 

Sib, — The condition of our agricultural labourers has been, 
I think, in some respects considerably exaggerated. 

Twenty-five years ago, when I commenced farming, wages 
here were low, and employment, especially during winter, 
scarce ; but for some years past there has been fullemploy- 
ment at increased wages, owing to more general draining 
and other agricultural improvements. 

Their children (over ten) and their wives also earn a fair 
amount, besides gleanings, trouser-making, and pea-picking. 
Our market gardens and seed-growing farms afford to 
labourers' families much employment. 

Very many of our labourers have been absorbed by neigh- 
bouring agricultural machine factories. We have also a 
small silk factory. My own labourers, most of whom have 
been with me a quarter of a century, earn on an average 
15«. 6i. to 16«. per week, or about £40 per annum, and have 
beer estimated at \s. per week. 

I make it a rule not to pay either more or less than my 
neighbours ; but as nearly all my work is done by the piece, 
the men earn more money, and my work is done more quickly 
and quite as cheap as by day work. 

Piece-work attracts and retains first-class labourers, whose 
better physical condition results from their increased 
earnings. 

Day wages hereabout have ruled at 12^. per week and 
beer, with an extra shilling for ploughmen and shepherds. 
The present rate is 11^. and 12s. 

Irregular or inferior labourers cam rather less. 

The best evidence of the improved condition of the agricul- 
tural labourer is the general rise in his wages. Formerly the 
market price of a bushel of seconds fiour was the measure of 
his wages ; now, they are 2s. higher than that. The want 
of sufficient cottage accommodation has been a misfortune 
for the agricultural labourer. 

J know of some cottages in this neighbourhood where 
familieB of seven children have hadi oiAy oii« %m^VL bedroom 
for the nine members of the iamViy, oi «XL«^^%%si\^«s«», 



AaSICnLTnBAI^I.AB0nB£B8. 117 

Many cottages are in a dilapidated condition, merely lathed 
and plastered, with thatched or tiled roof; and but for the 
spacious gardens attached to them would be unoccupied. 

Several new ones have been recently erected, but with a 
curtailed extent of garden, which should seldom be less than 
20 to 30 rods, especially where there is a numerous family. 
Cottage rents vary from £3. 10s, to £4. 10«. per annum. 

Single men and married couples without children are in 
a comfortable position, but the married couples with large 
young families are rather sorely pressed, and especially ror 
these is free education most desirable. Very few labourers 
over 40 can read or write, and some aged well-to-do farmers 
are in the same condition. Of late years the wretchedly 
inefficient dame schools have been superseded by very good 
schools erected at the cost of benevolent subscribers ; but 
they have not any State support. 

I am inclined to think favourably of the condition of our 
country labourers as compared with those in towns and 
cities. They have pure air, detached residences, and home- 
grown vegetables. My experience as an Alderman of 
London, distributing aims in a severe winter, gave me the 
opportunity of knowing that rents in single rooms in 
crowded neighbourhoods are often as high as £8 to £12 per 
anniun. In these are too often crowded the newly-born and 
the aged, the afflicted and the dying. 

Wages must follow the supply of law and demand, and 
cannot be £xed by any artificial standard. 

Farmers have a right to obtain their labour at the cheapest 
rate, just as the labourer is entitled to seek the best market 
for his labour. Free education and increased intelligence 
will better enable him to attain this object. 

I am, Sir, yours obediently, 

J. J. MECHI. 

TirTREB Hall Farm, near Kelvedon, Essex, Jan, 26. 

I 

I have recently inspected some cottages erected at 
Twickenham, by Mr. Benjamin !Nicoll, who has a patent for 
using straw slabs dipped in asphalt concrete and then 
cemented. So far as 1 could judge on a close examination 
of the details of manufacture, &c., my opinion coincides 
with that so favourably expressed b^ lEL."^. Ci^\fissiv%5sw^Ti!sw^ 
in their report on the employment of "^oxsierDL^ssA ^sSw^2s«s^'«^ 



118 FBOFITABLB FABMING. 

agriculture. They appear to be strong, dry, warm in winter, 
cool in summer, and cheaper than the ordinary bricked 
cottages. 

The compression of straw by Mr. ITicolls's powerful 
stritching machine appears to me to be likely to prove very 
useful in securing hay and com stacks from wet, and aJso 
particularly in extemporizing cheap and effective shelter for 
farm animals. 



Agricultural Hints for Sot Weather* — Take care that 
your sheep and other animals have free access to water, 
especially when they have cake or other dry food. Lime- 
wash slated roofs : they will then reflect the heat, instead of 
absorbing and transmitting it : this is good for man and 
beast. Limewash the interior of stables and sheds. Plenty 
of poultry will keep down flies. Look out for fly-blows 
on sheep, or they will soon be devoured by maggots. — 
May, 1868. 

Direction Posts. — If any evidence were wanting of the 
necessity for waywardens, it would be found in the miserable 
and often entirely illegible condition of our parish direction- 
posts. It appears as though the natives consider that every 
stranger knows the local topography as well as themselves. 
Of course one can summon the surveyors, but that, is a 
disagreeable alternative. All direction-posts should be of 
cast iron, the letters also cast with them. I have one that 
cost only 50«. twenty odd years ago, and it seems likely to 
last another century or two. It is boy-proof as well as 
weather-proof, and no rotting at its junction with the earth. 
It generally happens that the letters are obliterated where 
four roads meet, and where many a stranger must be sadly 
inconvenienced. I need not go far from my own home for 
an illustration of this. — May, 1868. 

A Lawful and Certain Cure for the JRahhit Complaint, — 

High farming has cured many complaints connected with the 

breeches pocket, and so it will this one. Farmers never 

make a greater mistake than when they allow their worst 

farming to be round a wood. It is precisely there that 

should he the largest expenditure in cake and com, and the 

greatest amount of manure. "We axe ^V\i\^ xr^ thft turning- 

out and roaming-at-large system ?ot \)\3^o«iV», w^^^^^SsS^ 



CUBB TOB BABBIT COMPLAINT. 119 

soon find out (as I have long since done) that sheep should 
be invariably folded (within iron hurdles on wheels). This 
system pays either for store or fat sheep, or ewes in lamb 

Sie very young lambs having room to pass out). "But, 
r. Mechi, what can this have to do with destroying 
rabbits P '* Well, I am coming to that now. Farmers ought 
to be made aware, if they are not now, that when we have 
heavily folded a piece of white or red clover, the sheep 
having been well supplied with cake, com, malt combs, bran, 
and hay, the second growth will be so rich and rank that it 
will kill many sheep, whether lean or fat, and is almost 
certain death to lambs. This applies equally to rabbits. The 
same remarks apply in degree to pasture or Italian rye- 
grass, for I dare not sewage-manure the first or spnng 
growth when it is intended for sheep and lambs. They can- 
not stand such rich food, nor can the rabbits. A friend of 
mine who farms 1,200 acres, told me an amusing story about 
this. His bailiff was desirous to have some rabbits in a 
grove, to which my friend waggishly assented. His fat 
sheep were closely folded and heavily caked round the grove, 
and the rabbits soon departed this life. Those who intend 
following my example of close folding will do well to take 
note about the dying of sheep as well as of rabbits. I often 
hear of great losses arising from the over-richness of green 
food. Animals will pick off and prefer the rich upper 
portion of the plant, containing the future ear or seeds, 
when folded they must eat bottom as well as top, or the 
straw with the com. We have a lesson to learn about iron 
fold hurdles. Twenty years ago Mr. Mechi was pronounced 
an extravagant man for paying 25«. or 26s, for 15-feet iron 
hurdles on wheels. Kow, after twenty years' observation, 
my neighbours have provided themselves with these very 
extravagant investments. The fact is that, after twenty 
years of hard wear, mine would, if sold by public auction to- 
morrow, bring from 17s. to ISs. each. I have been told that 
one cannot fatten sheep by close folding. My experience is 
exactly the other way. Give your sheep plenty of com, 
cake, hay, bran, and malt combs that did not grow on your 
farm, and you will soon make fat land as well as fat sheep. 
In 1867, I sold my half-bred hoggets, exactly a year old, for 
63s,; this year for &ls, 6d, I have a great respect for 
pheasants and partridges ; they can hardly be too numerous, 
and are the farmer's best friends. Of course the pheasants 
should be fed in covert. Hape, m\i&t«xd, \.«x^%^ &^,^^.^\!c^2:s^ 
a wood, should always be extta-\i««tVi\^ lajMWX^^^ va^^Nsi. 



120 FBOFITABLS PABMINO. 

addition, guanoed. It is desirable to enclose a small portioi 
within wire netting to come more forward than the rest, 
and remove the netting when the crop is in vigorou 
growth. Wheat near a wood should be sown early .-w«9i9, 

1868. 

JPlenty of Money, hut we will not Use It, — An inflnential 
member of one of the improvement companies informed me 
that money was superabundant, but they could not find 
parties enough willing to employ it in agricultural amend* 
ment. To-day I have an application from a gentleman wisl- 
ing to invest capital in such companies. I was obliged to 
reply that the necessity for agricultural improvement wai 
not yet sufficiently impressed on the rural mind, and there- 
fore the channel was not open to his investment. I am more 
and more inclined to think that nothing pays better than 
agricultural improvement, for in 1867 I made a clear 18 per 
cent, on tenant's capital after providing for the improved rent. 
My forthcoming balance-sheet for 1868 will show a net 
profit of 9^ per cent, and house-rent free. The average profit 
of the last four years is 12|^ per cent., or 33«. per acre. 
Many town traders would consider this a good net per- 
centage. The profit of 1868 was diminished by the purchase 
of dear food for stock owing to the drought.— cTa^ti^ary, 1869. 

The Importance of Comparative JSayertwcwif*.—- Whenever 
I use an artificial manure I leave a portion of the field 
unmanured with it, and am thus enabled to judge by the 
crop if I am remunerated for the outlay. So various 
are the soils and conditions of each field, that such a 
comparative test becomes absolutely necessary ; for where the 
whole field is manured, and no portion left undressed, no 
just conclusion can be arrived at. On this farm I have 
frequently applied bone-dust, superphosphate, blood manure, 
and other artificial manures, without the least increase 
of crop, while Peruvian guano, and especially our shed 
manure, are always profitable. As I know that on many 
farms such manures have been found very efiective, there 
must be causes that render them inoperative on this soil. 
No doubt shed manure, resulting from animals fed with 
com, cake, roots, and hay, malt combs, and bran, contain all 
the elements for every crop. Possibly it may be that having 
tbua enough, phosphates, tne addition of more is not required 
or availed of by the plant. At aW. e\reTi\»,TErj <2.^\^^\|toyea the 
necessity for comparative trials. — 1%^^. 



DBAINS AND WATEBCOUBSES. 121 



Deep and Shallow Drainage,'^! observe that after a dry 
summer, the fields drained 6 feet deep at 30 and 40 feet 
apart, in stiff clay, do not discharge water through the 
drains so early in the season as those of 30 inches deep, at 
closer intervals. The reason appears to me to be obvious. 
The 60-inch drains take the surplus water from 6,000 tons of 
earth, the 30-inoh drains only lay dry 3,000 tons. It is easy, 
therefore, to understand that when the autumnal rains come, 
the 6,000 tons take longer to supersaturate than the 3,000 
tons. The deep drained lands haa only commenced running 
to-day (Jan. 8), after the recent heavy rains. Are not those 
extra 3,000 tons more available for tne roots of plants than 
the same quantity undrained under the 30-inch drains — for 
the roots of plants descend several feet P F.S. One inch 
deep of earth gives over 100 tons per acre. — Jan, S, 1869. 

Look to your Drains and Watercourses, — This ought to 
form a prominent clause in every lease. After a twenty-four 
hours' rain, such as we have just had, it is interesting to 
examine every outlet, and, reflecting on the pump-like stream 
from every drain, wonder what is to be tne fate of those 
numerous but unfortunate individuals who farm heavy or 
wet undrained lands, where the water is retained as in a 
plugged flower-pot, and from which the only escape for it is 
upwards by evaporation, robbing the earth and plants of the 
sun's invigorating rays, and employing them to convert the 
unescaped water into steam, which, full of latent heat, rises 
into and is wasted on the air. As a rule our watercourses 
and outlets of drains require frequent watching ; bunches of 
rushes and water-plants increase so rapidly during the grow- 
ing season that they soon choke the channel and hinder or 
stop the flow of water, and conceal the outlets of the drains- 
bushes, broken sticks, and other matters get blown or thrown 
into the ditches, and cause injurious obstruction. I make a 
point of having a periodical examination of the watercourses 
and outlets, and the removal of all obstructions in preparation 
for the winter floods. This is much too often neglected, and 
requires the firm resolve of the principal. I am sorry to see 
it stated in the society's journal and elsewhere, that on some 
large estates it has become necessary to appoint a regular 
examiner of drains, owing to the suicidal neglect of some of 
the tenants. Boads, drains, and fences are, to my certain 
knowledge, very much too often negVecXA^. TcJs.V\^^<&«^^^i^ 
a most unprofitable omiBBion, lo ^^^'j TLQlODMi% o^ ^^"^^siRSA- 



122 FBOFITABLB FABMIlfG. 

I fear that these frequent over-supplies of rain, combined 
with the rapid growth of weeds as well as of wheat, owing to 
the unusual mildness of the winter, will, on the undramed 
soils, act most injuriously, especially when we get our usual 
supply of cold spring nignts and cutting easterly winds. The 
lignt moon at Christmas may, after all, not be so ridiculously 
wrong as some of our friends suppose, although I wish it may 
be. A great many people believe in the moon's influence^ 
and even Shakespeare himself was not free from this weak- 
ness, if weakness it be. A farmer with drained lands will be 
able to hoe his wheat and drill his spring com ten days 
earlier than his undrained neighbour. 

My Preparation for a Crop of Mangel Wurzel, — The 
previous crops were — 1866,. red clover ; 1867, white wheat ; 
1868, rivett wheat. Soon after harvest the land is broad- 
shared, and the rubbish and stubble burned. In November 
manure is put on at the rate of twenty or more loads per 
acre, and ploughed in by two ploughs, the first drawn by 
three horses, the second plough following in the same track, 
drawn by four horses. The second plough is without the 
mould-boards, or breast ; we thus get very deep cultivation, 
the upper and under soil and the manure being all inter- 
mixed. The lands are 7 feet 2 inches wide, so as to allow of 
three rows of mangel on each land or stetch. The land 
remains in this condition until April, when 3 cwt. of Peruvian 
guano and 2 cwt. of common salt are mixed together, and 
sown broadcast. The land is then broadshared once or 
twice according to circumstances, the seed drilled (having 
been first kept in wet sand some days), and the land harrowed. 
It is important never to plough this heavy land in spring, 
for by so doing it loses its moisture, and the plant fails. I 
never miss a plant or crop of mangel. With friable soil a 
difierent treatment may be necessary, but I only speak of 
our stifi* clays suited for mangel. To give some idea of the 
quality of our manure — which is all made under cover, on 
paved floors, or on spars, free from any rain — there is this 
year on each of the acres the consumption of £25 worth of 
cake, com, bran, malt combs, hay, and other feeding stuffs, 
independent of roots and straw. We only give a small por- 
tion of roots to each bullock, especially in a dry season like 
the last. Although the manure from forty fattening bullocks 
for ahont three months is placed on 9 acres, we find it 
proBiable to add in the spring 3 cwt. oi lB«t\]c^\w^ ^msao t^t 
acre, and 2 cwt. o£ salt. This we \MLxei i5TON^^>rj ^\xi\\5cai% 



HIGH PABMING. 123 

the guano on one acre, and could see its absence not only in 
the mangel crop, but in the oat or wheat crop that followed. 
In fact, the land can never be too richly manured or too 
deeply autumn-cultiyated for mangel. It is more profitable 
to grow 40 tons per acre on one acre than on two, for there 
is thus only half the rent, rates, tithes, seed, labour, &c. 
Three years ago, in a good season, we averaged 40 tons per 
acre on 18 acres, and we have grown 7 quarters of wheat per 
acre after mangel. We always put on 2 cwt. of Peruvian 
guano with some salt for the com crop following mangel or 
other roots drawn off the land. Our mangel crop of 1868 is 
scarcely less than 30 tons per acre. I need hardly say that 
the mangel are kept free from weeds by two or three horse- 
hoein^s, by Garrett's horse-hoe, and several hand-hoeings, 
bringmg the land quite flat. Of course, in order to farm 
thus highly for mangel, plenty of fattening stock must be 
kept. By this system the mangel costs me farmer much 
less per ton than by spreading the crop over a larger area of 
half-manured Boil. A^ long Ixperience has confirmed mj 
original opinion that high farming, producing maximum 
crops, is the true way of obtaining a good profit. Maximum 
crops depend mainly on plenty of ^ood manure, and the 
latter can be much more cheaply obtamed by judicious stock 
fattening than by artificial manures. There may be excep- 
tions, but I speak particularly of my own farm, which 
consists of both light and heavy land. 



124 PBOFITABLB PABMIlfG. 

Manoxl Crop fob 1809-H)I Acru. 

Autumn Preparation, 

2 broadsharings, 26ff. ; 3 barrowings, 16«. loil. .. ,.£i 1 10 

190 loads of manare (three-quarter carts) at 6« 45 o • 

Fillingrdo 13 

Spreadiugrdo 18 

Cartingrdo 4 Iff 

Double or trench ploughing with two ploughs and 7 hones 14 o 

^67 18 10 
Usual Spring and Summer ChargeM, 

27 cwt. of Peruvian guano 17 11 10 

1 ton of common salt 1 10 

Mixing and sowing guano and salt 6 9 

2 broadsharings, 26«. ; S harrowings, 23«. 9^ 2 9 9 

47^ lb. seed 276 

Rolling and drilling 15 

a horse-hoeings with Garrett's horse-hoe 226 

3 hand-hoeings •• .. .. .. 4 12 6 

Pulling and fliling into carts 2 17 

Carting mangel from field 9 10 

Clumping, earthing, and thatching 276 

Rent at 4 0«. per acre 19 

Tithes, rates, and taxes 4 15 

J^1S8 4 2 

These are the regular charges that would be allowed in a 
transfer valuation. To these must be added the cost of 
carting to the homestead, cleaning, cu^^g up or pulping, 
at2«.perton 28 10 

On 30 tons— the usual average crop— j^i7. 1 u. rer acre . . jf 166 14 2 
Or 1 1«. Sd. per ton on a crop of 30 tons per acre. 

My Wheat Crop of 1868. — I have just thrashed the remain- 
ing portion of inv last field of wheat, and find that the whole 
field has produced a fraction over sixty-four bushels (eight 
quarters) per acre, of fine marketable club-headed rough 
chaff white wheat, weighing 63^ lb. per bushel. Thirty 
quarters of it were sold on the 12th Inst., at Chelmsford 
market, at 56«. per quarter. The other portions, sold much 
earlier, brought 61s. and 62s,, making the average of the 
field 67*. 6d, per quarter — thus producing a money return ol 
£23 per acre, besides the straw, which, at present price here, 
is worth about £3. 10s. per acre ; in fact, we are selling oux 
surplus straw at that ^rate. The field was of 6^ acreSj 
actual measure, and the quantity of seed drilled a fraction 
over four pecks per acre, put in on the 20th November, 1867, 
after clover cut for hay, and then fed. I mention actoal 
acres becanae what are called*' iatmeT*!^" ^Lex^^^xe^ome timet 
£ve roods, and many labouxexB are "ve\l «j«^^ xXi^X.^ViaX*'^ 



DBILLIira BBAN8. 125 

field ** goes for *' is often a good per centage more than its 
actual measure. By piece work the labourer would, in 
such cases, be a loser, unless he took that matter into his 
account. 

My men had always an opinion that my oak-field, which 
produced seven quarters two bushels per acre (sold at 60s.), 
would yield more than this willow field (near the pond), but 
I, Mr. Hallett, and others thought differently. It turns out 
that I was right. My sevenfy-three acres of wheat have 
thus yielded an average of over six quarters per acre — ^twenty 
acres, which were of rivett wheat (after white wheat), did not 
yield so well as the white wheat, nor did the red wheat. 
The fine, warm, dry season was evidently more suited to the 
fine white wheats than to those of coarser quality. Most of 
our wheat was of fine white quality. The rivett sold at 4Bs, 
and 46«. per quarter, while the wmte was sold at 6Qs, to 62;. 
Beans and barley were a very light crop. When I purchased 
this farm, in 1841, I gave £23 per acre for it ; now some of 
my wheat crops realize that amount per acre, and exceed it 
by the value of the straw £3 per acre. This is encouraging 
to agricultural improvers. A good deal has been said about 
my land being ^ood wheat land. I know of two large farms, 
not far from mme, of very much better natural qualify than 
mine, that let for about 12s, 6d, per acre, one of them having 
superior buildings and a good house. There would be plenty 
more good wheat-lands if landlords drained them and if the 
tenants consumed plenty of purchased, food, and made, as I 
do, £6 worth of meat per acre. I do not expect everybody 
to believe my statement of growth, especially those who farm 
unimproved land, make little manure, put in too much seed, 
and trust too much to Nature. — February, 1869. 

Drilling or Dibbling Beans? — ^Having tried both ways 
(the dibbling being a general plan on our heavy land), I 
have come to the conclusion that in every way drilling is to 
be preferred. The plants do not come up so thick and showy 
as the dibbled, but at harvest the drilled show a better 
result. Drilling has many advantages : it is quicker, cheaper, 
and the horse-hoe can be worked freely after the drill, but 
not after the dibble. It is also a saving in seed. We always 

Slough deeply for beans, and pressing the coulters of the 
rill so as to cut through the ploughed land, and deposit the 
beans on the solid substratum. Our beans go in in FebruarY^ 
if possible, or very early in Maxch. k^ ^oqtdl ^a '^^ \i«sss^ 
are well above ground we liaxtow Wi^em -w^Gft. V«w?^ \s.^'^ 
barrows, — March 9. 



126 FBOFITABLI FABMIFG. 



The Royal Agricultural Benevolent Jn«^tYi^u>n.-~Feeling 
assured tnat my readers will be interested in the good 
cause of charity, I annex the following particulars relating 
to this institution for the relief of decayed farmers, their 
widows and orphans: — 

It was estabbshed in 1860. 

The present recipients (March, 1864) number as follows :^ 

Males 25 at 26 per annum 

Married couples 9 at 40 ,, 

Females 52 at 20 „ 

Octogenarians 6atio •, 

Orphans 12 (fed, clothed, and educated.) 

We shall elect, on the 9th of June, 1869 :— 

12 Males. 
6 Married couples. 
12 Females. 
12 Orphans (if candidates enough). 

Number of candidates, March, 1869 : — 

Males 46 

Married couples 15 

Females 64 

Total 125 

The following is a copy of a letter which I addressed to 
1,000 newspapers in the United Kingdom, with a view to 
make our charity more extensively known :— 

THE ROYAL AGRICULTURAL BENEVOLENT INSTITUTION. 

TiPTBXs Hall, Kslvsdon, Bssbz, 
May 23, 1868. 

Sir,-— As the orighiator of this much-xequired charity, I am overwhelmed 
with correspondence and ^;>plications for support of particular candidates for 
admission, who number, I am sorry to say, 133. I am induced to ask the 
favour of your inserting this letter and statement of circumstances, as it is 
quite impossible for me to act so ui^ustly as to support cases from counties 
where there are scarcely a handful of subscribers, while other counties have 
nobly done their duty, and abundantly responded to my original appeal. 

The annexed list will confirm my statement. I quite believe that one and 

the principal cause is a non-knowledge of the existence of this charity, for 

our British yeomen are noted for their hospitality : and when ttkey know, 

tbroagh jour columns, that such an VnaUtoMoxi «x\«ta, thev will no doubt 

readily aapport it. I also believe tYiat out \Baidho\&et%'^f^i«R^«.^«u«aAta 

felievmg tiioae candidates who were once tbkC^c tenasiVa. 



TEX ROTAX AQBICOLTIIBAL BBRITOLSKX IN8TITUTI011. 137 

On the i;tb of June we elwt— 



Mr. Ctiirlei Shuw, ts 
IVi (As Editor of 



»l of tbe SacictUTi 



— 


^^ 


sizJSii.' 




fimOfliKl 




I 






































































































|J«^« 


i6 














































































































































































K 


4S 




















































Yorliahlre 




\ - ^ 



128 



PBOFITABLB PABMIVO. 



Fluctuation in the Price of Cbr».— The following inte- 
resting record of the fluctuation in the price of com appeared 
many years ago in the Amicultural Qazette^ and was, I 
believe, contributed by Mr. Hoskyns, the author of " TiJpa," 
and present member lor Hereford. 



Year. 



1288 

1289 

1300 

1294 
1302 



1309 
1314 



316 
1317 

1336 



1338 



1339 

1349 

1359 
1361 
1363 
1369 

1379 

1387 
1390 




At London . . . . . . 

In other parts of Eofcland at . . 
Hay, in the north and west parts at 
Bj reason of great hail and rain, wheat 

rose from 2s. the qr. to 
And by degprees came to 
Wheat per qr. 
Whidi scarcity continued off and on 

for many years 
Wheat per qr. 
And sometimes as high as 
Wheat by the qr. 
Malt, ground, at .. .. 

IrCSiSy AC • • • • 

vlftCBy Ab • • • • • • 

Wheat, at i>er qr. 

Wheat, beans, and peas, at . . 

Malt, at . . . . . • 

Hay, by the rains in harvest the dearth 

was such that wheat came to S0« 

anu •• .. •• •• 

(A proclamation issued that no more 

wheat should be malted.) 
Wheat exceedingly dear, at . . 
So great a scarcity of com that at 

Leicester wheat was 
Such plenty of com and scarcity of 

mon^ that wheat at London was 

per qr, .. .. .. .. 

Wheat, per qr., at . . 

Barley and oats, at . . 

Peas and beans, at .. 

Wheat and malt, at . . 

Oats, beans, and peas, at 

Com so plentiful that wheat was, 

per qr. . . . . . . . . 

Wheat very dear, so that a qr. was . . 
Wheat so cheap that a qr. was 
Wheat so dear that a qr. was . . 
Such a dearth that wheat was per qr. . . 

•• •• •• •• •• 

Wheat so cheap that, &c. 
Wheat, by the qr. (at Leicester) 
Wheat at Leicester, by the qr., from 
139. Ad» to.. •• .. .. 

Wheat very dear, at . . 

•• •• •• •• •• 

Sowing wheat, at . . 
Whe&t very dear, at . . 
Wheat cheap, at 
Wheat for malting, at 



i^. 9. d. 



2 
3 
1 
• 




4 
4 
8 


Waverley Annals 
Stow 

Do. 

Do. 


10 

1 
• 16 


8 




Do. 
Do. 
Walsingham 


16 

1 • 
4 
3 
2 

2 

• 7 

1 • 
13 







4 
6 

2 

4 


Fabian 

Knjrgfaton 

Dugdale 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 
William Them 
Walsingham 

Do. 



2 

1 12 

2 4 












2 

3 4 

10 

1 
9 
5 



2 

1 6 
2 

15 

1 4 
1 
4 
2 















0. 





16 8 

16 

3 4 

4 5 

\6 Q 



Authority. 



Do. 

Fabian 
Knyghton 



Do. 
Shr R. Cotton 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 

Antiq. Britan. 

Fabian 

Dugdale 

Kennet 

Walsingham 

Stow 

Do. 

Do. 

Knyghton 

Fabian 

Kennet 

Do. 
Fabian 



Q 4 ^X^SjexmsX. 



\ 



ptrcTUindN in thb pbiob of cobm. 





^F.d. 


Authority. 










two years foUowins wheat wia soli, 




















m>t. Croylaod 


143B 


SuXasSiS^that'iiiBEtwis.hyttie " 






FaUau 




The VoBrrity'oontlDo'ed 








Wlitat.perq[ 








Do. do 








Wheatbylbeqr. 






I«? 


Do. do 

Do. do 


S 8 I 


Do! 


iIh 


WJn'atverychcap.at' '.'. '.'. 


S 1 ) 


dS: 


H17 


Wheat, by the (ir 


B I I 


Do' 


IX 










AtLondpn ,."' 
















Whlteirheat'.hTthcqr. " 








Wheal TE17 dear, at 




Fahlau 


1491 


Wheat, the qr., at 








Wheat cheap, at 

Whcftt.perqr 


I 3 ° 


Do. 


UD7 


■Wheat verj dear 








™"S."'S. :: :; :: 


* fi 9 


A.»lq. CauWrb. 




Adesrth. Wheat.perqr 








Wheat, hy their 




Do. 










J J 


In thl. jear, before harrest, wheal w». 








ptrqr 




Do, 




Bol after harresl. »t London. . 
















meM.'JieVq™'"^ v. " ■■ 




Fleetwood 




Ami continued at that price for fo«r 






li7» 


^She"??^ " '^?'^™ '^' """' 




Do. 




And iJUr harreKt 








■Wheat WiB, at U.nnoB 




Do. 


















IIM 


wEeS:?Seqr..et 


"I" I 


Do! 


1^ 


^l^ill^Z"J.fi!tl'r^ :: 


i I I 


Do. 



130 FBOFITABLE FABMIKO. 

CONGEESS ON THE SEWAGE OF TOWNS, HELD 
, AT LEAMINGTON SPA, WAEWICKSHIBE, 

OoTOBSB 25 AND 26, 1866. 

Thb foUowinfr Paper by Mr. Mechi, of liptree Hall, was 
laid before the Congress by Mr. Hitchman. 

Not many years ago a discourse about human excrement 
would not have been tolerated in a public assemblage, but 
now the age of reason triumphs over false delicacy, since 
science has taught us that on the preservation and utilization 
of human and animal voidances depends the production of 
our daily bread. We now know that by an all-wise provision 
of Nature, it is so ordered that the earth which is to produce 
our food is the only cheap and effective appropriator and 
deodorizer of human and animal excreta. 

The question now arises how the excremental deposit of 
our towns and cities can be most efifectually and economically 
conveyed to the soil. And here again Nature famishes us 
with an example, for the heavenly rains are provided to 
wash into and diffuse through the soil the excretal deposits 
on its surface. Without this, vain would be tillage operations. 
Fortunately, cheap and mighty steam enables us to copy 
Nature by artificial supplies of water to our great and crowded 
towns and cities. If we consider merely the most available 
and profitable way of fertilizing the soil, then I can say from 
an experience of eighteen years, that the fluidized condition 
is much to be preferred to ensure an immediately available 
result to the husbandman. But I understand the question 
to be now discussed is one of convenience and sanitary 
arrangement for your town. 

For all houses and cottages having only out-of-door privies 
in gardens, there can be no question that earth or the earth- 
closet is most convenient and economic, but in towns with an 
abundant water supply, I must come to the conclusion that 
the water-closet system must be most effective and convenient. 
In dealing with this question we must take human nature as 
we find it — namely, very short of perfection. There will be 
careless children and young folks in our houses, and servants 
anxious to avoid unnecessary trouble. The chamber or slop- 
p&H will be the great enemy to the earth closet, and there is 
a general aversion to the manipulating of excrementitiary 
xoattera, JEven with the oxdmaxy Y:Bi\.ex^^o%>^^\)aet^\A^C\Au 
much neglect and trouble ; fox, aa ai^XxvccXi^x otv^i^ ^wiA'WiTs^^^ 



SEWAGE IBBiaATION. 131 

" In removing' obstructions I have found hair, steel-pens, 
tooth and scrubbing brushes, and even silver spoons block- 
ing the way." 

If every one were careful and attentive to the requirements 
of the earth-closet, its many advantages would be appreciated ; 
but there can be no reasonable expectation or this in a 
crowded town with lofty houses and numerous floors. Even 
our waterclosets are often miserably mismanaged, and there 
should be, in every one, a strong stick occasionally used to 
remove stale disagreeable decomposing attachments that have 
resisted the action of water. We nave the examples of 
Croydon, Chelmsford, Worthing, and other places to satisfy 
us that water will convey to the distant land cheaply and 
effectually town excreta, without any damage to the public 
health, and with great fertility to the soil, by cheap steam 
power ; for evidence, taken before the recent Committee of 
the House of Commons (Lord Robert Montagu's), proved that 
1,000 tons of sewage could be raised 300 feet high at a cost 
of only 13s. or 14s. ; and we know that 5,000 acres covered 
with water, once called Whittlesea Mere, are now dry arable 
land, kept so by one of Appold's pumps raising 18,000 
gallons of water per minute two days pe'' week, the cost 
being only 8d. per acre per annum. 

It thus appears that it is cheaper to convey the excreta to 
the earth than the earth to the excreta. And Nature indicates 
this, for taking the daily average individual voidances at 
3:^ lb., only 4 oz. of these are solid, and this, when dry, is 
reduced to 2 oz. I may be permitted to remark that nearly 
all our out-of-door privies are on a wrong construction, 
having deep pits, admitting water and emitting fearful odours. 

Where earth is used the bricked floor should be an inch 
above the surrounding ground, with an opening at the back 
for occasional removal. A box of fine dry earth, a half-round 
trowel, and a stick, are all the necessary requirements ; but 
we are indebted to the Bev. F. Moule for the most useful 
and effective mode of reforming our farm and other out-of- 
door privies. 

Memorandum, April 6, 1869. — The Mayor of Norwich 
informed me that the Corporation had taken 1,300 acres of land 
in the vicinity, and would pump all the sewage on to it. 
They had already been bid a high annual rent for it. The 
following appeared in the Daily Telegra'ph^ A.^Y\L^^\Si^\ — 

SswAOB Ibbigation. — ^Yestexday T[xoTTiVJi^^^^^^=^s^^^^^^ 



132 FBOFITABLB FABMING. 

Local Board held a special meeting to oonsider an offer 
received from the Earl of Warwick to take the whole of the 
sewage of the town, for a term of thirty years, and dispose 
of it by irrigation on his lordship's estate, at a distance of 
from two to three miles south of Leamington. The Board 
attemf^ted to negociate with his lordship for the reception of 
the affluent water, after it had been treated by the " A. B. C." 
process ; but this Lord Warwick declined, and offered to take 
the whole of the sewage in its raw state. The local Board 
are to lay down the requisite mains, construct the necessary 
works, and pump the sewage to a given point on the estate, 
and in return his lordship will pay the Board £450 annually 
for the sewage. The terms proposed by his lordship were 
unanimously approved of by the Board, and the off'er was 
accepted. The new scheme will come into operation on the 
25th of March, 1870." 

So that we appear to be at length convinced of the'propriety 
of utilising that important means for increasing the food of 
the people. 



Deep and Shallow Drainage, — ^I observe that after a 
dry summer, the fields drained 5 feet deep at 30 and 40 feet 
apart, in stiff clay, do not discharge water through the drains 
so early in the season as those of 30 inches deep, at closer 
intervals. The reason appears to me to be obvious. The 
60-inch drains take the surplus water from 6,000 tons of earth, 
the 30-inch drains only lay dry 3,000 tons. It is easy, there- 
fore, to understand that when the autumnal rains come, the 
6,000 tons take longer to supersaturate than the 3,000 tons. 
The deep-drained lands had only commenced running to-day 
(Jan. 8), after the recent heavy rains. Are not those extra 
3,000 tons more available for the roots of plants than the 
same quantity undrained under the 30-inch drains, for the 
roots of plants descend several feetP One inch deep of 
earth gives over 100 tons per acre. — January 8, 1869. 



WY MAN AND SONS, PRINTERS, GILEXT <iT3*U15 OTK^^T^ I.O'STiQTR,^ .t. 




-j 



