Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



) 



MANUAL OF DIET 



INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC, 



WITH A FEW HINTS ON NURSING. 



DUNCAN TURNER, 



LONDON: N^^ 
JOHN CHURCHILI, 

New Bdrlinoton Stbbbt, 




/r/ . . (8r 



H^OOBQUODALS & CO., PBINTEBS, 0, GABDIKGTON STBXST, LONDON, N.W. 



PEEFACE. 



When I first thought of printing the following pages it 
was chiefly with a view to their contents becoming useful 
to my own patients. Subsequent reflection has, however, 
induced me to hope the work may be found of service in 
a wider sphere. Althougb many excellent treatises have 
appeared on the subject of diet and nursing, many of them have 
missed their aim, being either too technical or too prolix for 
the generality of readers. The end sought in this essay is 
to convey the necessary information in a few words, avoid- 
ing so far as possible technical terms so that it may be 
inteUigible to a reader of the most ordinary education. 
The busy medical practitioner, who so frequently finds his 
instructions either forgotten or misunderstood, mHy like^e 
find it a help to him. 



53, Devoi^shire Street, Islikgton, 
Octoher,.lSG0, 



tlS»l<tIIODAU A 00, FBIKiaBS, 6, OUDIXOTOIT tm&I!, LOHDOB, 




CONTENTS. 



PAOB 

CHAPTER L 
Digestion and Nutrition 7 

CHAPTER n. 

Diet — Essential Properties of Diet — ^Nutritive and Digestive 
qualities of the different kinds of Food — The Diet more 
particularly suited to the Sick and Invalid — Bills of Fare 
for the Sick and Inyalid.* 11' 

CHAPTER m. 

Condiments — ^Their relation to Food — Use and Abuse of the 
various Condiments 23 

CHAPTER IV. 

Drinks — Pure Water — Simple Infused Drinks — Infused 
Drinks that Act on the Nervous System— Fermented 
Liquors, Wines, Malt Liquors — ^Distilled Spirits 25 

CHAPTER V. 

Dyspepsia — ^Definition of the term — Symptoms of Dyspepsia- 
Causes of Dyspepsia — ^Treatment of Dyspepsia... 32 

CHAPTER VI. 

Hints on Nursing — ^Importance of Domestic Nursing — ^The 
Sick Room — Maxims on Nursing — Qualifications of a 
Nurse — ^Fainting, Fits, Vomiting, Contagion— On th& 
application of Poultice% Stupes, Enemas, Blisters 45 



..« ••• «•% %%• •»• *** 



Appendix of Formils - 



%* 



A MANUAL OF DIET. 



X 



« .« 



CHAPTER I. 



DIGESTION AISTD NUTRITION. 

Digestion may be defined as the process to wMc^ food is 
subjected in order to become fit for absorption, and in a 
condition to nonrish the tissnes of the body. Although the 
stomach takes the greatest share in this process, it is not, as 
generally supposed, confined to that organ, for digaetioii, 
properly speaking, commences in the mouth, and it is not 
finished until the food is advanced a considerable way into 
the intestines. 

Mastication is the first act in digestion, and consists, as 
every one knows, in the comminution of the food into smaQ 
particles, so that it may be more easily acted upon by the 
stomach and its juices. The human teeth, when perfect, are 
admirably adapted for this purpose, being evidently formed 
to masticate a mixed diet. Thorough mastication is very 
essential to good digestion, for we seldom find those who 
have lost their teeth free from dyspepsia and the ills that 
accompany it. 

During mastication another process is going on called by 
physiologists insalivation. It consists in the mixing of the 
food with the saliva. Saliva is the product pf varioisei 
glands in the neighbourhood ol \3afcmQ^TsJi5s^«^^ai►^^^»5^R^ 



8 A aPANUAL OF D}^ ^ 

in great abundance during mastfoation. It serves a double 
purpose — first, in acting chemically on the food so as to 
prepare it for the action of the gastric juice; and secondly, in 
lubricating it so as to make it ej,sier to swallow. That saliva 
is of great importance to healthy digestion may be inferred 
from the fact, that a healthy adult secretes from fifteen to 
twenty ounces daily, and every one knows how dry and un- 
comfortable the mouth feels when digestion is bad, or when 
some disease or mental excitement possesses the body. When 
food enters the stomach, gastric juice immediately begins to 
be secreted. This fluid is produced by the stomach itself, 
and wh|^ healthy, has a remarkable power which enables it 
to dissolve all kinds of properly masticated food. Digestion 
is materially assisted by the muscular action of the stomach, 
which has an inherent power enabling it to contract upon 
itself, setting up a sort of churning process, which continues 
80 long as any food remains in it. The combination of these 
processes reduces the food to a homogeneous fluid called 
chyme, which escapes into the upper part of the small 
intestine, through . the lower or pyloric orifice of the 
stomach. This orifice is possessed of a nervous power, which 
enables it to distinguish between digested and indigested 
food, and will seldom allow any of the latter to pass through. 
Gastric digestion takes from one to three hours according 
to the quality of the food, and the vigour of the stomach 
for the time being.* When the chyme enters the duodenum, 
as the upper part of the bowels is called, it is acted on by 
two other fiuids — viz., bile, and pancreatic juice. The former, 
as is well known, is secreted by the liver, and the latter by the 
pancreas, or sweetbread. The precise use of these fiuids is 
gtill a matter of dispute among physiologists, but it is certain 

*B7 " Gastric digestion" is meant the digestion that takes places in the stomach. 



♦0%THiMNVALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 9 



%: 



that they play an importiilt part in intestinal digestion, 
causing the nutritious part to be taken up for the nourishment 
of the Vodj, while they enable the bowels to expel all effete 
and unnutritious particles. When the chyme is thoroughly 
incorporated with them its nature is changed, and it is now 
called chyle, and in this state it begins to be absorbed by 
the villi of the bowels. The villi are minute points so thickly 
placed on the internal surface of the bowels that they give it 
a velvety appearance. Their office is to absorb the nutritious 
part of the chyle, and convey it to the vessels called lacteals, 
which in their turn convey it to the blood, where it is stored 
up for nutrition. The bowels are admirably adapted for 
this process, having an extensive surface for absorption, which 
is made still larger by numerous folds in their intefnal coat. 
These folds serve the double purpose of retarding the 
passage of the chyle to give the villi more time for absorp- 
tion, and of enlarging the absorbing sm'face. 

Nutrition may be defined as the process that converts 
the alimentary principle stored in the blood into organised 
tissue. Every tissue in the body has what is termed 
by physiologists elective affinity^ whereby it is enabled 
to select for itself elements suited to its constitution. 
Thus brain requires a certain element, muscle another, bone 
another, and so forth, and seeing that every organ is con- 
tinually undergoing a process of decay, it is necessary that 
there should be a storehouse from which to draw the needed 
supplies for repair. Young animals, as a rule, in proportion 
to their size, require more nutriment than the full grown, 
the organs of the former requiring to be built up as well as 
kept in repair. 

The performance of healthy and efficient nutritioa is very 
essential to the health and wellbeing of our bodies, for we 



10 A MANUAL OP DIET 

know that a great part of the aUments to which the homan 
body is liable is caused by some flaw in this function. 
Cancer, consumption, neuralgia, are all instances of disease 
arising from perverted or deficient nutrition. Many more 
might be named, but it is sufficient to mention here that all 
diseases arising from this cause are of a serious nature, and 
seldom amenable to treatment. Mal-nutrition arises from 
various causes, but the chief of these is a depraved condition 
of the blood. This may be owing to some poison circulating 
in it, such as the poison that gives rise to gout, rheumatism, 
or any of the fevers, or it may be imperfect aeration, either 
from the air breathed being deficient in oxygen, or the lungs 
in a diseased condition so that the blood cannot be properly 
exposed to the action of the atmosphere, or it may be owing 
to a diseased condition of the excreting organs that carry off 
the impurities of the blood, such as the liver and kidneys. 
A deficient supply of pabulum to the blood, either through 
a deficiency of food or bad digestion, will likewise cause 
poverty of blood and mal-nutrition. 

The symptoms of deficient nutrition vary in different indi- 
viduals, but there is always more or less debility and wasting 
of flesh. There may be a hacking cough, as in the first stage 
of consumption, or a painful tumour as in the case of cancer. 
Neuralgia in some nerves about the face and certain skin 
diseases are likewise frequent symptoms, but it is not 
necessary to enlarge on this subject, the intention of the 
author in this chapter being merely to explain the theory of 
nutrition, so as to make the following pages more intelligible 
to the general reader. 



FOR THE IHVAIJJ) AJXD DYSPEPTIC. 11 



CHAPTER n. 



DIET — ^ESSENTIAL PROPERTIES OP DIET— 2?UTRITIVE AND 
DIGESTIVE QUALITIES OP THE DIFFERENT KINDS OP POOD — 
THE DIET MORE PARTICULARLY SUITED TO THE SICK AND 
INVALID— BILLS OP PARE POR THE SICK AND INVALID. 

For all practical purposes, food may be classified under the 
two general heads, animal and vegetable. The elaborate 
classification of the chemist may be omitted here, nor is there 
any occasion to enter into the vegetarian controversy. Every 
unprejudiced person must admit that a mixed diet is the 
most natural as well as the most suitable and agreeable to 
civilized man. 

The body, as mentioned in the previous chapter, is com- 
posed of a number of elements, and the food and drink we 
take must contain a certain proportion of these to make up 
for the waste that is continually going on. Seventy per cent, 
of our bodies is composed of water only, but as water is 
not generaUy considered an article of diet, we shall not 
consider it here.* 

Next to water, azote or nitrogen forms the largest part 
of animals, and it is therefore necessary that the diet we 
consume should contain a considerable quantity of this 
element. The flesh of animals, eggs, milk, <&c., contains 
a large quantity of it, and are therefore called the nitro- 
genous foods. They are undoubtedly the most nutritious of 
our foods, but by themselves they form a too concentrated 
diet, we therefore mix them with a proportion of vege- 

• Water is not, strictly speaking, an eUufint, \i\x\. tcaAa ^o^ tA Nw^ <^s!»«a^^ 

viz. ;— Hydrogen «Xi4 Orj\|^Ti« 



12 A MANUAL OF DIET 

table. Vegetables contaia a considerable quantity of 
the element called carbon. This is generally called the heat- 
giving element, and is supposed to combine with the oxygen 
of the air we breathe, causing a slow combustion in the 
blood and thereby heating the body. It must not be sup- 
posed, however, that heat-giving is the only property of 
vegetaWe diet, for we know that many vegetables contain a 
large quantity of real nutriment, and though it is very doubtful 
whether man could thrive on a purely vegetable diet, it is 
certain that fresh vegetables have a healthy action on the 
blood, and that the want of them nearly always begets 
scurvy, as in the case of sailors during long voyages. Many 
other elements enter into the composition of our ordinary 
foods, but those mentioned are the principal, and a due 
proportion of each of them is always necessary. The 
essential properties of diet might be said to consist in a due 
supply of animal or nitrogenous food, vegetable or carboni- 
ferous food, with abundance of water. 

In discussing the digestive and nutritious properties of 
the various foods, we will lake milk first. This is the only 
perfect food presented to us by the hand of Nature. In it 
alone do we find all the elements necessary for the nutrition 
of the body. It partakes of the character of animal and 
vegetable diet, and is highly nutritious, especially to the 
young, for whom it is especially suited. It is the food 
adapted for infants, and nothing else should be given for at 
least six months after birth. If an infant cannot have its 
mother's milk, the next best substitute is cow's milk, diluted 
with a third of water and sweetened with refined sugar. 
It is a great mistake to add arrowroot, corn flour, or other 
starchy food to infants' food. The infant's stomach can only 
d/g-est milk, and aDrthing else will cause griping and 



FOR THE INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 13 

diarrhoea. It is unfortunate that beer has displaced milk in 
a great measure with adults. Few now look upon milk as 
either food or drink, and from the fact of its being taken so 
seldom, it frequently disagrees when taken, the stomach 
haying got too accustomed to stimulating beverages, such as 
beer, wine, tea or coffee. In Switzerland there are estab- 
lishments where patients undergo what is called the milk 
treatment, pure milk being used, so far as possible, as the 
sole article of diet. There is certainly more common sense 
in such treatment than in the Hydropathic system of this 
countrv. When milk is not retained on the stomach it 
ought to be mixed with one-half of lime water ; taken in this 
way it is exceedingly light, and will be retained when any- 
thing else would be rejected. Asses milk is lighter than 
that of the cow, and is frequently recommended to consump- 
tive patients and delicate infants. Cream is the oil of milk, 
and more nutritious than milk, but it is more difficult to 
digest. It is, however, easier to digest than most animal 
fats, and is frequently taken with advantage by consumptive 
invalids. Butter is an article of diet that enters, one way 
or another, into almost every meal we take ; it is light and 
nutritious, and seldom disagrees. Melted butter, as sauce, 
and butter with hot toast are, however, two exceptions, for 
in this way butter is converted into oil, and rendered most 
difficult to digest. Cheese need only be mentioned to forbid 
its use either by the invalid or dyspeptic. 

After milk come the farinaceous aliments. They form a 
numerous class, and minister more than any other to the 
maintenance of the human race. Wheat may be taken as 
the representative of this class, and is consequently the most 
universal of our foods. It contains a larger quantity of 
pure nutriment than any other pwi^\^ ^^^'fe\siJc\<^- ^<5^o^ ^jssSk. 



14 A MANUAL OF DIET 

when properly cooked is not difficult to digest. Good 
sound wheaten bread, made with barm and moderately stale, 
seldom disagrees with any one, and a portion of it ought to 
enter into the composition of every meal taken by people 
in health. Wheaten flour mixed with bran, composing 
what is generally termed brown bread, is useful to those who 
are troubled with a sluggish action of the bowels ; and taken 
regularly it often cures the most obstinate costiveness. I would 
here enter a protest against the use of all sorts of fancy 
cakes and biscuits made at the confectioner's. They fre- 
quently contain rancid butter and very impure sugar, along 
with many other ingredients not less noxious, which render 
them difficult to digest, and positively hurtful to many weak 
stomachs. 

Barley is less nutritious and less digestible than wheat, 
and unsuitable for either invalid or dyspeptic. Oatmeal, 
properly prepared, is an ex(tellent article of diet, and specially 
suited for the invalid. Rice is a very important food, and 
is not so much used amongst us as it deserves. It forms 
almost the sole article of diet to millions in the East, and 
though rather insipid, is nevertheless highly nutritious and 
easy of digestion. Rice requires some hours to boil ; and 
when intended for an invaUd, ought to be boiled into a pulp. 
Com flour, arrowroot, tapioca, tons le mois, sago, etc., are 
all of the same nature, and either may be taken according to 
the invalid's taste. They do not contain much nutriment 
in themselves, but they are very easy to digest, and when 
given in the form of pudding, with milk or eggs, form an 
excellent diet for the sick. 

Vegetables. — Though vegetables are an essential part 
of ordinary diet, a few of them only are admissable to the 
invalid's table. Nearly all contain a stringy part that 



FOB THE INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 15 

is difficult to digest, and thej have also a tendency to 
produce flatulence. The potato is perhaps the most uni- 
yersaUj used of all vegetables, and is certainly the most 
useful to man. It contains a considerable quantity of 
nutritive element, and when good is not difficult to digest. 
Oood potatoes should be dry and mealy when boiled, and 
ought not to leave any bitter taste in the mouth. Of late 
years some species of potatoes have found their way to the 
London market that are positively poisonous. It is well 
known among farmers that the coarser kinds of this vege- 
table have the greatest immunity from disease, and hence 
the great temptation to grow and sell them. Cabbage, 
cauliflowers, and spinage are excellent additions to our 
diet when health is good, but are seldom allowable when 
digestion is weak. The esculent roots, such as carrots, 
parsnips, turnips, onions, &c., may be used sparingly by the 
invalid. Raw vegetables, such as radishes, watercress, 
encumber, &c., are not favourable to digestion, and ought 
to be avoided. 

Fruit, prc^erly cooked, is an invaluable article of diet to 
the sick and invalid. It is cooling, agreeable, and easy of 
digestion. Raw fruit should, however, be avoided, unless 
specially ordered. For the different modes of preparing 
fruit for the sick, see Appendix. 

Fish occupies an intermediate place between animal and 
vegetable diet, and is extensively used by all classes. 
Though not so nutritious as beef or mutton, the fact that 
whole communities subsist and enjoy good health on fish 
alone, shows that it contains all the elements essential to the 
nourishment of the body. 

Salmon is the most nutritious of our fishes, but being 
oily, it is rather difficult to digest, and therefore not a 



16 ▲ MAKUAL OF DIET 

proper diet for the invalid. Salmoa-troat is lighter, bat less 
nutritious. Small fresh-water trout is exceedingly delicious 
and easy to digest, and is often a rare delicacy to the 
invalid who has gone the round of the lighter foods and 
tired of them all. Whiting, "the chicken of the sea," is the 
tenderest of all our fishes, and when in season ought to 
form a portion of every invalid's diet. It seldom disagrees, 
and contains a fair quantity of nutritious element. Haddock 
comes next to whiting in point of tenderness, and sole next. 
There is but little difference between the three last-named 
species, either in point of digestion or nutrition, and either 
may be taken by the invalid according to taste or inclin- 
ation. Cod is an excellent article of diet, and when in 
season may be partaken of sparingly by the invalid ; but, on 
the whole, is not so digestible as any of the three species 
mentioned above. Eel, skate, and plaice are too oily for 
the weak stomach. Shell-fish need only be mentioned to be 
forbidden. Native oysters, when in season, may be partaken 
of sparingly, but all others ought to be avoided by the 
invalid and dyspeptic. Fish caught during the spawning 
season ought never to be used as food. Such a diet is ex- 
ceedingly unwholesome and not unfrequently causes serious 
disease. 

Pure animal food contains the largest amount of nutritious 
principle, but, as already observed, is in itself too concen- 
trated and too stimulating. A moderate quantity of this 
diet is therefore allowable, but those who think that they can 
get strength and vigour by consuming large quantities of it 
will find themselves grievously mistaken. Nature will not be 
forced, and if she appears to give way a little at first, it is only 
to revenge herself more fully afterwards. Trainers who tem- 
porarily improve the condition of men and animals for brutal 



POR THE INYALID ANB DT8PEPTIC. 17 

purposes know well the direful consequences of over feeding, 
and will seldom resort to it twice on the same subject. A 
great mistake is frequently committed in this way by patients 
recovering from a severe illness. They think that when the 
appetite is good they cannot take too much food, or that the 
food cannot be too nutritious for them, until, after a time, 
they either find themselves at a standstill, or their stomachs 
turned completely against all kinds of diet, with perhaps a 
return 6f the symptoms of the disease from which they 
suffered. Great caution is often necessary in this respect, 
and when a patient finds his food is not doing him so much 
good as it ought, he should on no account increase the 
quantity or take it more concentrated, but rather seek a 
change of air to enable him to assimilate what he is taking, 
and then, and not till then, will he derive from it the benefit 
which he expects. 

In considering pure animal foods, eggs seem to come 
naturally first. They are really animals in embryo^ and 
have every attribute of an animal. They resemble milk 
in being a complete food in themselves, containing all 
the elements for the nutrition of the body. When 
lightly boiled they are easy to digest. They are rather 
too stimulating when the digestive powers are very weak, 
but convalescents may take a new laid egg for break- 
fast in preference to any thing else. Eggs that have been 
kept for some time get stale and unwholesome, and are very 
liable to upset the stomach of an invalid, and give him a 
disgust at all kinds of food. Game, when kept a proper 
time, has an exceedingly delicious flavour, and is highly nutri- 
tious and moderately easy to digest. It is an unfortunate 
epicurean fashion that has crept in upon us to keep game 
until it is what is called high, or in other words half rotte 

B 



in^^M 



18 A MANUAL OF DIET 

In such a state it is apt to cause serioos digestive derange- 
ment to the delicate, and loses a great part of its natritive 
qualities. The flesh of tame birds, when young, is even 
more tender than game, but not so nutritious. The legs 
and wings are better for the invalid than the breast. The 
common fowl is the best as regards digestion. Qoose is 
rather oily, and turkey is insipid. Beef and mutton are too 
well known to require much description here. Their nutritive 
powers are much alike ; of the two mutton is the easiest 
to digest. This fact is generally well known, and hence we 
And patients kept on mutton chops for an indefinite period, 
until they get a disgust at mutton in every shape. There 
can be no greater mistake in nursing an invalid than to offer 
him the same food too often. The very sight of a dish 
which has come before him too frequently will not seldom 
take away his appetite and spoil it for anything else, Pork, 
unless very young, is not suitable for the invalid or dyspeptic. 
It frequently causes diarrhea and other gastric disturbances. 

The Diet more particularly suited to the Sick and 
Invalid. — The proper selection of a smitable diet for the sick 
and invalid is of the greatest importance. It is a subject that 
has not hitherto received the . attention it deserves. Few 
physicians will now deny that in many cases a proper diet, 
given at the proper time, is of as much importance to the 
sick as medicine, and that the life of many a patient depends 
on its judicious administration. It would be impossible to 
lay down any rules with reference to the dietmg of the sick 
in any special case of disease, for each case must be judged 
by its own merits and treated accordingly, but a few general 
propositions may be given which will be a guide to the nurse 
and refresh the medical practitioner's memory. 

In giving food to the sick three things ought to be kept in 



FOR THE INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 19 

mind, viz : — ^Not to place before the patient more food than 
he can take ; not to have the food in his sight ; and not to 
offer him (except for special reasons) what he has already 
refused. These rules apply almost in all cases. In the first 
stage of acute diseases it is absolutely cruel to be pressing 
food on the patient ; he loathes all kinds of food, and if you 
cause him to take a little it only adds to his misery. Drink 
is what is wanted in this stage, and ought to be given with 
unsparing hand. A small quantity of nutriment is generally 
given with drink, such as gruel, toast water, barley water, 
etc. When the first violence of the disease has expended 
itself, mild liquid diet, such as milk and water, arrowroot 
with milk, stewed fruit, a thin slice of toast with a cup of 
tea, may be given sparingly. If the patient is very low, beef 
tea may be given in this stage, but when possible it is better 
to retain this valuable agent for the next stage. The third 
stage refers to that period generally termed the crisis, 
or *' turn," when the violence of the disease has completely 
subsided but recovery has not yet commenced. This is a 
period of great importance, and frequently tries the skill of 
the physician and nurse. The judicious administration of 
food in this stage is of the utmost importance to the patient. 
A more nutritious diet is borne, and ought to be administered 
at shorter intervals, and in increasing quantities. The broths 
come in now ; beef tea is certainly the best of these, but a 
patient will soon tire of it. Mutton, veal, and chicken broths 
may be given in their turn ; they are all of the same nature, 
and change is everything to a patient. Thin toast cut into 
squares may be occasionally mixed with them, or a little 
stimulant, as brandy, if ordered by the medical attendant. 
Custard, sago with milk, corn-flour, or any of the light far- 
inaceous diets are admissible in this stage, and may be given 



20 A MANUAL OF DIET 

according to the patient's taste. The next stage is the 
stage of convalescence, and in it the patient has fre- 
quently a desire for more food than he is able to 
digest. It is necessary to be exceedingly cautious not 
to overload the stomach of a patient recovering from 
a dangerous illness, as serious harm might ensue; 
far better too little than too much in this stage. The broths 
should be continued, and may be given more concentrated 
now. The lean of a mutton chop boiled or roasted, chicken 
in small quantities, whiting, haddock, sole, or trout, as they 
are in season, native oysters, turtle soup, light puddmgs 
made with any of the starchy foods, tender roast beef, mut- 
ton, or lamb, are occasionally admissible. In choosing a diet 
from the above, it is well to be guided a great deal by the 
patient's taste. Unless in exceptional cases it is better not 
to force a patient to take any thing against his will. What 
is forced upon him will seldom do good and not unfrequently 
do harm ; besides, a patient recovering from an illness is 
very whimsical ; what he cannot bear to day he will take to- 
morrow with a relish, and he will seldom take the same dish 
three times in succession. It is better to humour him in his 
fancies, so long as they keep within bounds of moderation, 
but if they stray, as they not unfrequently do, to the most 
indigestible of viands, it is necessary to be firm and deny any- 
thing that would tend to upset the digestive organs. The 
illness that accompanies the first months of pregnancy in 
some women is often accompanied by an excessive desire 
for the most outrageous things, and the disorder is frequently 
aggravated by giving way to these fancies and indulging in 
articles of diet that would upset the stomach of a navvy. 
The diet most suitable for an invalid must be regulated in 
a great measure accorchng to the nature of his infirmity, and 



FOR THE INVALID AND DySPKPTIC. 21 

it is only necessary to mention here that as a rale it should 
not to be too concentrated or consist of articles that take a 
long time to digest. An invalid ought not to fast too long 
and ought to be careful not to indulge in a full meal when 
the body is fatigued. Invalids suffering from chronic chest 
affections, as asthma, or chronic bronchitis, cannot be too 
careful of their diet, for in these diseases the appetite is not 
impaired, while the digestion is always materially weakened 
and the sufferer is apt to indulge in a hearty meal which, in 
an hour or two, will give a paroxysm of his complaint 
with all its attendant miseries. The foods that are most 
digestible have been already discussed in this chapter, and it 
would only be a repetition to go over them again, especially as 
some mention of them will be made in the next section, and 
in the chapter on dyspepsia. 

Bills or Fare for the Sick and Invalid. — ^In this 
section it is merely intended to assist the memory of the 
practitioner who frequently finds it difficult to call to mind 
the various light aliments suitable for a patient ; some re- 
petitions will necessarily occur, but the writer prefers to 
sacrifice elegance for utility. 

Early in the morning, a cup of warm milk and water, or 
cocoa made as ordered in appendix, or a small basin of gruel. 
Breakfast, a cup of tea with a small quantity of toast. 
Mid-day, a little wine with a light biscuit. Dinner, a break- 
fast-cupful of custard, flavoured according to taste. Tea, 
same as breakfast. Supper, same as dinner. 

The above would constitute what is termed " low diet." 
It may be varied by substituting a light farinaceous padding, 
made from any of the starchy foods for the custard, using 
cocoa instead of tea, and substituting any of the infused 
drinks for cocoa in the morning. 



{ 



22 ▲ MANUAL OF DIET 

The following is a more stimulating diet, and suitable for 
the third or critical stage of disease. Early momingi a cup 
of warm milk and a biscuit. Breakfast, a cup of tea, a slice 
of toast, and the yolk of a new laid egg. Twelve o*clock, 
some stimulant and a biscuit. Two p.m., a cup of strong beef 
tea with a slice of toast cut into small squares and soaked 
in it. Fiye p.m., a cup of weak tea, and a small portion 
of any kind of hght bread. Supper, custard or corn-flour 
pudding with half a glass of wine. When the patient is 
very weak, small quantities of beef tea may be taken in the 
intervals between the meals, and the stimulant must be regu- 
lated according to the orders of the medical attendant. The 
diet may be varied by substituting chicken, veal, and mutton 
broths for the beef tea, and varying the puddings as directed 
in the first bill of fare. Milk, tea, cocoa, or gruel, may be 
used to dilute the food according to the patient's taste. 

The next bill of fare is for the fourth, or recovering stage, 
or for the habitual invalid. Breakfast, between eight and 
nine a.m.; tea, one or two cups as desired, a moderate 
quantity of stale bread with fresh butter, and a new-laid 
egg. Luncheon, twelve o'clock, a cup of beef tea and a 
biscuit. Dinner, three p.m., mutton chop with one or two 
mealy potatoes, and a small quantity of custard pudding. 
Five p.m., same as breakfast, egg excepted. Supper, corn- 
flour with milk, and a little negus before going to sleep ; beef 
tea or a little wine may be taken in the intervals as before, 
if necessary. This diet may be varied by substituting whiting, 
haddock, or sole, for the mutton chop, and varying the 
liquids and puddings as directed in the two preceding bills 
of fare. 



FOR THE INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 23 



CHAPTER in. 



CONDIMENTS — theik relation to food — use and abuse of 

THE YABIOUS CONDIMENTS. 

Though condiments are not in themselves articles of diet, 
yet as they enter largely into the composition of many of 
the foods in daily use amongst ns, a work like the present 
would be incomplete without some notice of them. Condi- 
ments in themselves are incapable of nourishing, but they 
sometimes promote the digestion of other foods, and some of 
them have a soothing effect on the nervous system. It is 
curious to observe how a taste for condiments may be acquired 
until substances the most nauseous to the uninitiated, such 
as garlic and assafoetida, are partaken of with the greatest 
relish. Salt is the most important as well the most essential 
condiment. A desire for salt seems an instinct in all warm- 
blooded animals. It promotes digestion, prevents worms, 
makes food more palatable, and has probably other effects 
on nutrition which physiologists have not yet explained, but 
which undoubtedly exist, and are highly necessary to the 
health of our bodies. Too much salt is, however, prejudicial, 
and sailors who have long fed on salted meat without any 
admixture of fresh vegetables, seldom fail to become affected 
with scurvy. This disease was once the terror of the seas, 
and it is one of the triumphs of medical science to have 
discovered its cause and cure. It is now well known that 
fresh lime juice is a complete preventive of scurvy. 
Vinegar, when pure, is in small quantities a useful condiment, 
and promotes the digestion of oily substances. The vinegar 
that is commonly sold is only a diluted impure acetic acid. 



24 ▲ MANUAL OF DIET 

The aromatic condiments comprise all the peppers, and 
some indigenous herbs. The strongest peppers, such as 
cayenne, are certainly injorioos, and though they may be 
partaken of with impunity in warm climates, they ought not 
to be indnlged in in England. The milder peppers are not 
so injurious, and may be used sparingly according to taste ; 
but it is a mistake to suppose that large quantities of pepper 
will help a weak stomach, for it generally has the contrary 
e£fect. Mustard, horse radish, leek, onion, sage, mmt, &c., 
are wholesome, and in moderate quantities harmless. They 
promote digestion, and preyent in a great measure the forma- 
tion of gas in persons subject to flatulence. The curries and 
chutnee of India ought to be partaken of sparingly by 
Europeans. 

Catsup and the whole tribe of heating sauces, for which 
eyery one has private recipes, ought to be avoided by the 
dyspeptic. Pickles, though not so hurtful as the foregoing, 
are Hot recommended to the invalid or dyspeptic. Oily 
condiments are forbidden, being seldom digested by a weak 
stomach. 



FOR THE INYAXID AND DTSFEPTIC. 25 



CHAPTER IV. 



DBINES— PURB WATER — SDfPLB INFUSED DRINKS — ^INFUSED 
BRINKS THAT ACT ON THE NERVOUS SYSTEM — ^FERMENTED 
LIQUORS, WINES, HALT LIQUORS — DISTILLED SPIRITS 

PufiE Wjltee — This beverage, presented to us by Natui-e, 
is unquestionably the most natural drink to man. Yolumcs 
have been written extolling the virtues of pure water as a 
panacea for all diseases, and yet amongst the poor we still 
find the fever-stricken patient deprived of cold water as if it 
were so much poison. On the other hand our hydropathic 
friends deluge their patients with water externally and in- 
ternally. Here, as in a great many cases, a medium is to 
be observed, and while we would not recommend our patients 
to drink cold water or smother themselves in watery blankets 
in all diseases, yet a moderate allowance of pure water is 
admissible in sickness and in health. It is absolute cruelty 
to withhold water from a feverish patient ; no one but those 
who have felt it can realize the craviog he has for eold 
water, or the horror he has of its being mixed with anything. 
Drinking water ought always to be filtered before it is 
used. No water is so pure as to render this process unneces- 
sary, for the purest water supplied to towns always contains 
a small quantity of organic impurity, which an ordinary 
filter will separate. 

It is now well known that water contaminated with sew- 
age spreads cholera and enteric fever, and when it is known 
that these diseases prevail, it is well to boil the water used 
for drinking. A great deal of windy nonaena^ laAs. V^'^sss. 
written by the advocates ol to\.«2l ^^NXaj^s^iR.^ \si. \»:^^^^ ^ 



26 A MANUAL OF DIET 

water drinking, and while the writer of this work would not 
endorse the doctrines of these enthusiasts who spoil their 
caase by absurd exaggerations, he is free to confess that a 
person in good health, who is not worried by the turmoil that 
makes life a "feverish activity" in our large towns, has 
need of nothing else but cold water for his drink. It is, 
however, but too true that the life that most professional and 
business men lead in our cities causes immense strain to the 
nervous system, and frequently a little stimulant is not 
only a luxury, but an absolute necessity; but more of this 
anon. A moderate allowance of water with meals promotes 
digestion and refreshes the body, but large potations dilute 
the gastric juice, and so interfere with its solvent power. 
It is not generally known that when a patient has a burning 
thirst a mouthful of water quenches it as effectually as a 
large draught. It is well then to remember, when a sick per- 
son has a craving for water, to give only a small quantity 
at a time, as large draughts would distend the stomach and 
make him uncomfortable, while the thirst would be as intense 
as ever. 

After pure water come the simple infused drinks, such as 
oatmeal gruel, toast water, barley water, linseed tea, cur- 
rant water, etc. These are all of the same nature, and may 
be given indiscriminately, according to the patient's taste. 
Oatmeal gruel contains a certain quantity of nutriment, and 
is useful to patieuts who cannot take solid food ; it used to 
be the sole diet of the lying-in room, but now-a-days lying- 
in women are seldom restricted to gruel alone. It is given 
to promote the action of purgative medicines, and is cer- 
tainly well adapted for that purpose. Toast water, barley 
water, and linseed tea contain small quantities of nutriment, 
end are ocas'onally preferable to pure water to allay thirst. 



FOR THE INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 2T 

Currant water, lemon water, and tamarind water are cooling 
beverages, and useful in fevers. 

Soda Water, &c. — ^Waters charged with carbonic acid gas, 
and flavoured in various ways, have become favourite drinks 
of late years. Lemonade, ginger beer, and several others 
belong to this class. The most useful to the invalid or sick 
is the simple soda water, as the carbonic acid in it makes it 
soothing to the stomach, and the small quantity of carbonate 
of soda' it contains does not interfere with digestion. When 
there is great irritability of the stomach, as in the commence- 
ment of fevers, bilious attacks, &c., soda water, with a 
small quantity of brandy, is an excellent sedative, and is 
seldom rejected. Lemonade and ginger beer frequently 
contain a quantity of impure sugar, which is apt to upset an 
invalid's stomach, and ought therefore to be avoided. 

Infused Drinks that act on the Nervous System.— 
Tea and coffee are the principal in this class, and from their 
extensive use all over the world they demand a little consider- 
ation. Tea is more extensively used than coffee, and though 
it is not such a strong stimulant as the latter, it has a more 
soothing effect on the nervous system, and is generally to be 
preferred by the invalid. Though chemists assert that the 
active principles of tea and coffee are alike, tea drinkers 
assert that the action of the latter is very different to that 
of the former, and we know that we seldom find any confirmed 
coffee drinker who will not taste tea, but of tea drinkers who 
will not taste coffee we have abundance. Since the reduc- 
tion in the duties on tea, it has become a universal beverage 
in these islands at the tables of the rich and poor, and though 
its daily use is not always attended with benefit, it is certain 
that it has been one of our great civilising agents, and much 
as we wonder at the craving for alcoholic liquors prevailing 



2d A MANUAL OF I>I£T 

amongst all classes of our population, it is certain that 
drunkenness would be still more prevalent were it not for 
tea, which, it may be truly said, cheers, but does not 
inebriate. Tea ought not to be taken too strong nor with 
a full meal ; in the former case it causes over-stimulation, 
which soon relapses into a depression, and in the latter it 
retards digestion. The best time to take tea is about three 
hours after dinner ; taken at this time it refreshes the body, 
now jaded by the labours of the day, and washes away any 
remains of undigested food that may be in the stomach. 
Tea ought not to be taken more than once a day by people 
in health, but the invalid may indulge in it twice. Coffee is 
always preferable for the morning meal if the health is good, 
but many invalids complain of indigestion after coffee in the 
morning. Tea, as taken by the poor, causes indigestion and 
other tronblesome ailments. Poor needlewomen and others 
of the same class take tea several times a day with but little 
nourishment, and the consequence is a most intractable 
dyspepsia, with which every physician who attends the out- 
door patients of our large hospitals is but too familiar. Green 
tea is too stimulating for the invalid, and is not to be desired 
by the healthy, and unless by medical advice ought never to 
be taken. Coffee is more difficult to prepare than tea, and 
this is probably one of the reasons why it has never become 
a popular beverage among the lower classes. The art of 
making coffee seems to be better understood on the continent 
than in England. Directions for preparing this beverage 
will be found in the Appendix. 

Handing tea and coffee round after dinner is a pernicious 
custom, and the sooner it is done away with the better. 
They both tend to arrest digestion. The custom probably 
originated in the days when it was fashionable to drink a 



FOR TUE INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC, 29 

bottle of port after dinner, and where it would be absolutely 
necessary to take something to correct the inebriating 
effects of such potations. The practice of giving cold tea 
to sick children is very prevalent amongst the poor, and 
ought to be discouraged. The effect that a cup of tea has 
on a paroxysm of irritative fever is very remarkable, and not 
so well known to the medical profession as it deserves. The 
writer has frequently experienced it in his own person, and the 
relief that it gives, though in some cases only temporary, is 
most marked and grateful to the patient. 

Cocoa from its oily nature is not adapted for the sick, but 
some have a relish for it and can enjoy it. It can hardly be 
said to act on the nervous system, but to some it is a slight 
stimulant. It contains a considerable quantity of nutriment, 
and is an excellent beverage for those whose digestion is not 
impaired. Chocolate is much the same as cocoa. 

Fermented Liquobs. — It would be foreign to the purpose 
of this work to enter on the much vexed question of the use 
and abuse of alcoholic liquors. All we have to do with them 
here is to consider them medicinally and how far we are 
justified in prescribing them for the use of the sick. Wine, 
l)eing the most ancient as well as the most universally used 
of the alcholic beverages, comes first on the list. A great 
variety of liquors come under the term wine, but strictly 
Fpeaking it refers to the fermented juice of the grape only, 
and will be so applied here. Wines vary much in their 
composition and physiological effects on the system, according 
to the quantity of alcohol and other ingredients contained 
in them. The old classification of wines into dry and sweet 
is a very convenient one, as it enables us to distinguish 
bstween those that contain unconverted sugar and those that 
do not. The latter are not suited to the invalid's stomach, 



30 A MANUAL OP DIET 

and ought never to be given to a person with weak digestion. 
A wine containing a great deal of alcohol is likewise unsuited 
to the invalid. The wines of Spain and Portugal frequently 
contain thirty per cent, of pure alcohol and large quantities 
of unconverted sugar, and though favourite beverages for the 
healthy and strong are never to be prescribed for the sick, 
and seldom for the invalid. Many specimens of these wines 
contain a large quantity of raw alcohol added to them in 
order to make them more suitable to British taste. The 
wines generally sold in public houses are frequently artificial 
imitations, and are not only worthless, but injurious. It is 
nothing short of- absolute cruelty to sell such trash to the 
sick poor, who are the only customers for this class of so- 
called wine. The poor seldom or never drink wine when 
they are well, but when they are ill they always resort to 
port wine, as possessing a kind of imaginary virtue, for the 
cure of all diseases. 

Sparkling or effervescing wiues, such as champagne, &c., 
contain a considerable quantity o f sugar and intoxicate rapidly, 
though containing but a small per centage of alcohol. Small 
quantities are, however, grateful and cooling drinks to the sick. 

The light dry wines such as Claret, Hock, Moselle, Bur- 
gundy, Bitter Sherry, etc., are the most suitable for weak 
digestion. The quantity of spirits contained in them is 
but small, and they are free from unconverted sugar. 

Beer. — This is the staple drink of Englishmen, and, unlike 
most of our narcotic beverages, is nutritious as well as 
stimulating. Though the manufacture of beer is brought 
to greater perfection in England than in any other country, it 
is known all over the world, especially in the colder countries 
where the vine does not grow. The Chinese make it from 
rice, the Americans from maize and various other grains. 



FOR THE INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 31 

Beer in its various modifications, as ale, sweet and bitter, 
porter, stout, etc., is an excellent drink for the healthy who 
pass a good part of their time in the open air, but it is only 
occasionally allowable to the invalid, and never to the sick. 
The quantity of extractive matter which it contains, though 
highly nutritious, is not easily digested, and not unfrequently 
distresses the stomach of the weak who venture to indulge 
in a glass or two. What is called cooper, a mixture of 
stout and porter, is generally the most digestible for the 
invalid, and is not liable to cause the sick headache which 
the heavy sweet ales frequently cause in those unaccustomed 
to their use. Bitter ale is an excellent invention, but it is 
not always so innocent as it is supposed to be. It may have 
tonic properties for some constitutions, but to the majority 
of invalids stout or cooper is more bearable, and less liable 
to upset digestion. Old ale contains a large amount of 
alcohol as well as extractive matter, and should never be 
taken by the invalid. 

When beer is taken it ought to be with meals, and never 
in the intervals between. Beer causes a kind of dyspepsia 
in brain workers, which is liable to be attributed to every 
cause but the right one. I have known men suffer in this 
way for years, having no idea of the source of their ailment. 

Distilled Spirits. — The art of distilling ardent spirits 
has been a cwrsed invention to humanity. The moral and 
physical evils arising from their use are numerous and terrible, 
and will one day be the subject of investigation and legis- 
lation. Their habitual use is baneful to the healthy as well 
as to the invalid, and ought to be avoided by all classes. 
In disease they are occasionally useful in small quantities, 
but as their use is always to be directed by medical advice, 
they need not be considered here. 



32 A MANUAL OF DIET 



CHAPTER V. 



DYSPEPSIA — DEFINITION OF THE TERM— SYMPTOMS OF DYSPEPSIA 
—CAUSES OP DYSPEPSIA — TREATMENT OP DYSPEPSIA. 

Dtspepsia, or indigestion^ signifies a derangement of one 
or more of the processes by which food is rendered fit for 
absorption into the blood. From what has been said in the 
first chapter of this work the reader will readily understand 
that although this disease is generally referred to the stomach 
it has not always its seat there, but may be owing to derange- 
ment of some of the other organs which are accessory to 
digestion, or it may be occasioned by a disease or irritation 
in a distant part of the body. Whatever may be its seat it 
is always troublesome and occasionally painful, not merely 
affecting the body, but the mind, making life miserable and 
not unfrequently leading to most incurable and deadly 
diseases. Dyspepsia is peculiarly a disease of advanced 
civilization, and is without doubt more common with us 
than amongst our forefathers, nor is there much hope of it 
decreasing, at all events in the class in which we now find it 
so prevalent — viz., the middle class in our large towns. Money 
getting is the practical religion of the day, and to get rich, 
no matter at what cost to body and mind, but still to get 
rich is the life aim of not a few. Dyspepsia is certainly one 
of the least evils that men bring upon themselves by such 
unnatural exertions in the acquisition of wealth, but it is one 
that is almost universal among the class referred to, so much 
soj that during a late commercial disturbance a form of 



FOB THE INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 33 

it was known amongst medical men as the " City disease." * 
The notions that are prevalent, even amongst the educated 
classes, concerning this complaint are extremely vague and 
erroneous, and it is not a little amusing to hear patients 
relate their symptoms qualified with their notions as 
to the origin and cause of their complaint. The term 
"bilious" is used to denote various forms of dyspepsia, 
and the sufferer is thus led to take what are called anti- 
bilioas pills, with which every chemist's shop abounds, 
thinking that by that means he will clear away the 
bile he imagines is his chief enemy. The purge will 
certainly relieve the symptoms for the tune being, but the 
disease, so far from being cured, is only aggravated, and 
the antibilious dose is required in gradually increasing 
frequency until at last the patient gets alarmed and consults 
his medical adviser. The term heartburn is used to desig- 
nate another form of dyspepsia, and as it is instantly cured 
for the time by a few grains of the bi-carbonate of soda, 
those suffering from it resort to this remedy for years 
perhaps before they apply for medical advice, but all the 
time the disease has been getting a firmer hold of the system. 
Experience has led me to believe that a little sound know- 
ledge concerning this very common complaint is of great 
importance to the public, for we not unfrequently find that 
a little simple advice may remove the troubles of years, and 
rid the patient of much suffering, bodily and mental. 

Symptoms of Dyspepsia. — The symptoms of indigestion 
are Protean in their character ; seldom do we find two patients 
suffering alike ; but the following may be taken as the lead- 
ing symptoms of the disorder, though it must not be under- 
stood that they are peculiar to dyspepsia, or that they are 

♦ See "Paris on Diet." 
C 



* 



34 A MANUAL OF DIET 

all present in every or in any case of the disease.* Many of 
them are present in other diseases of a mnch more serious 
nature than dyspepsia, and when any of them occnr in a seyere 
or very protracted form, medical advice should be sought and 
all doubt removed. 

The most common signs of dyspepsia in its mildest form 
are an uneasy sensation in the region of the stomach after 
dinner^ a feeling of lassitude and depression, and a disinclina- 
tion for bodily or mental exertion. The temper is irritable 
and the mind gloomy and despairing. When the disease 
is present in a severe form, the uneasiness may amount to 
actual pain with nausea and vomiting, accompanied by 
acidity and flatulence. There is occasionally tenderness and 
pressure over the stomach, with a sense of constriction in the 
chest. The appetite is capricious, sometimes craving, but 
frequently entirely absent. The tongue is furred and the 
skin dry and harsh. Febrile symptoms after meals are not 
uncommon, and if the disease is of long standing there is 
more or less emaciation and flabbiness of the muscles. The 
bowels are generally costive and the urine high coloured, 
depositing a large quantity of sediment. 

What is generally called a bilious attack is frequently a 
sub -acute inflanunation of the mucus membrane of the 
stomach and upper part of the small intestines. It is 
generally accompanied by a headache and intense sickness ; 
i;he stomach is intolerable to the mildest liquids, and bile is 
frequently vomited in considerable quantities. These 

* There ia nothing that misleads a lay reader more than symptoms. He 
Imows, or has been taught, that certain symptoms belong to a certain disease, 
and if he finds one or two of them in himself or others, he immediately jumps to 
theconclusion that a certain disease is present, ignoring enttrelyother symptoms 
which may be present, that would lead one more experienced to a different 
oonolnsion. 



FOR THE INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 35 

symptoms are generally accompanied by strange sensations 
in tli6 head, and mistiness before the eyes, ^rhile the vessels 
of the eye have frequently a yellowish tinge. These are 
generally the symptoms associated "with the common and 
simpler forms of dyspepsia. The severer forms, where there 
is organic lesion of the stomach, need not be considered 
here, nor would it be in accordance with my purpose, to 
enter into that form of the disorder which is caused by 
the irritation of some distant organ. The latter, strictly 
speaking, belong to the technical part of medical science, 
and a . description of them would only tend to confuse 
the non-professional reader. 

The Causes op Dyspepsia arc as numerous as its 
symptoms, and proceed from widely different sources, but the 
primary fault is nearly always some inherent weakness in the 
patient — some constitutional malady that weakens the mus- 
cular power of the stomach and vitiates the gastric juice — 
a weakness of constitution brought on by breathing an 
impure atmosphere and close occupation — ^the mind over- 
worked at the expense of the body — all these are fertile 
sources of indigestion, but principally the first. A consti- 
tutional taint of some kind, either inherited or acquired, is 
at the root of more cases of dyspepsia than any other cause, 
and when we know that any such taint lurks in our body, we 
should be the more careful to keep it latent, for th^ least 
excess may bring it into activity and cause much misery. 
The constitutional diseases that are known to give rise to 
dyspepsia are phthisis, gout, chronic bronchitis, syphilis, 
and rheumatism. These diseases may not be actually 
present so as to be apparent to the eye, but the least taint 
of them lurking in the blood is sufficient to give rise ~ to 
indigestion. 



ZQ A MANUAL OF DIET 

Among the immediate existing causes of dyspepsia may 
be enumerated improper food, that is to say, food, whole- 
some in itself and suitable for the healthy, but too strong 
for the weak stomach of the dyspeptic, and, which instead 
of nourishing him, aggravates his complaint. Bad cookery 
is not an unfrequent cause of indigestion. Baked meat for 
instance is much more difficult to digest than roasted meat, 
and when bread, paste, puddings, etc., are not properly 
prepared, they are sure to disagree with a dyspeptic patient. 
' Want of teeth and eating too hurriedly generally make 
digestion prolonged and painful. lu the one case the food 
is not properly divided, and the stomach is called upon to do 
extra labour in red ucing it to chyme, and in the other the 
food has not had time to be properly mixed with saliva, which, 
as already -explained, is very essential to digestion. Spirit 
drinking is a most fertile source of dyspepsia, and though 
among the least of the evils caused by such a baneful habit, 
is prolific of much misery. The spirit drinker's appetite is 
nearly always impaired. The mucus membrane of his stomach 
being kept in a state of sub-acute inflammation is never fit 
for its duties ; the consequence is that his food is either rejec- 
ted, or it passes into the bowels in a semi-digested state, 
where it causes irritation and diarrhoea. Every medical 
practitioner is well acquainted with the drunkard's dry 
furred tongue, his congested eye, gastric pain, and the well 
known train of symptoms indicating liver disorder. Beer 
or wine drinking in excess are likewise well known causes, 
and even moderate quantities of these will in some con- 
stitutions produce very severe dyspepsia. 

The excessive use of tobacco or opium will frequently 
cause dyspepsia, and so will tea and coffee in the same way, 
but the moderate use of cither at proper times is harmless. 



FOR THE INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 37 

Men following certain trades, as shoemaking, are apt to suffer 
much from indigestion. This is owing to the stomach 
being pressed upon from without, which hmders its action 
and otherwise interferes with it in the performance of its 
duty. Tight lacing was once a common cause of indigestion 
from compression of the stomach in the same way, but our 
more enlightened females of the present day have, I am glad 
to say, in a great measure abandoned this fashion. Abuse 
of purgative medicines not unfrequently induces dyspepsia, 
especially the patent medicines, which sufferers are led to 
believe will cure all diseases, but which often give rise to 
others perhaps worse than the first. Lastly there are what 
are called idiosyncrasies that some people have with refer* 
ence to certain articles of diet, and which have given rise to 
the saying that " what is one man's food is another's poison." 
We all know some who have a horror of certain kinds of 
diet which are not only harmless, but highly digestive and 
nutritious to others, and yet these people can eat and digest 
some foods that a person with a moderately good digestion 
could not partake of with impunity. 

Climate has frequently a goodjdeal to do with bad diges- 
tion. To some people a warm relaxing climate is an 
abundant source of indigestion, and this cause is often felt 
by the English abroad, and large quantities of hot gpices are 
taken to obviate it, but these often aggravate the evil which 
they were intended to cure. 

Eating too much is such a well known cause of indigestion 
that it may seem ridiculous to mention it, but every medical 
practitioner knows that people may suffer from this cause 
for an indefinite period and not find it out. It never strikes 
them they are giving their stomachs too much to do, though 
it groans daily under its load, and gives them a great (Jeal 



38 A MANUAL OF DIET 

of uneasiness. Literary men and all who have sedentary 
employment are apt to err in this way. They know that to 
get an appetite they must take exercise, and they start off 
for a long walk, or perhaps take a turn at the gymnasium 
before dinner. They get a kind of an appetite, but the body 
is exhausted, and when a heavy meal is taken directly after, 
the stomach, partaking of the fatigue of the body, is unable 
to digest it, and consequently the food may lie for some 
hoars indigested, causing much misery, bodily and mental. 

Too great or too short intervals between meals ought to 
be avoided, as both extremes are injurious. No rule can b6 
laid down for the guidance of patients in this respect, for in 
some digestion is quick while in others it is extremely slow. 
A little attention to his own feelings is, however, enough to 
set a patient right on this point. ' 

Treatment of Dyspepsia. — The first indication in the 
treatment of dyspepsia is to find out the cause of the ail- 
ment. No doctoring of the stomach will avail much if the 
cause of the disorder is still in operation. See whether any 
of the causes mentioned in the preceding pages are in opera- 
tion, and if so, have them removed as far as possible before 
any remedies are used. When some constitutional disease 
is at the root of indigestion, the treatment ought to be 
directed for its removal rather than trying to cure the 
dyspepaift, which may be only one of its symtoms ; but as 
such an attempt would be attended with danger in the hands 
of pi^tients themselves, I will not enter upon it here. It may 
be mentioned in passing, however, that cod liver oil in small 
doses is perfectly safe and an excellent remedy for indigestion 
associated with scrofula, consumption, chronic bronchitis, and 
chronic asthma. When there is a tendency to this disorder^ 
either hereditary or acquired, great care should be taken in 



FOR THE INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 39 

regulating the diet, by taking meals at the proper time and 
taking food only that can be easily and quickly digested. 
The following directions in reference to meals and quality 
of diet may be useful to some. Breakfast, when possible, 
should be taken late ; about ten is the best hour, but a little 
refreshment, such as a cup of warm milk and a small biscuit, 
should be taken on getting up. The dyspeptic who can take 
his breakfast at ten o'clock ought to make it the principal 
meal of the day, for at this time and till noon the body is ip 
* full vigour, and the stomach is able to digest thoroughly a 
- larger quantity of food than during any other portion of the 
twenty-four hours. Coffee, made as dkected in appendix, is the 
best fluid, but if it does not agree, tea or cocoa may be substi* 
tuted. Bread toasted and allowed, to cool and then buttered 
may be taken in moderate quantities, and onqi or two new 
laid eggs lightly boiled. For the eggs, fish, a small mutton 
chop, some cold mutton, or lamb, may be substituted accord- 
ing to taste. Luncheon should be taken about one, and 
should only be a light refreshment, such as a glass of milk with 
a biscuit, or claret if preferred to the milk. Dinner should 
be taken between four and five, and should be plain, consisting 
of two or three courses at the most. Beef, mutton, fowl, fish, 
or game may be taken sparingly according to taste, but only 
one or two varieties, for when there are various dishes on 
the table, the appetite is tempted and more is ta)^ than is 
really necessary. A light pudding or stewed fifltt may be 
taken afterwards, but no pastry. Claret is the best drjpk for 
the dyspeptic, but if that hquor is not relished, a glass of 
water is sufficient. A tablespoonfol of brandy added to 
the water is useful in some cases. Drinking alcoholic wines, 
such as port or sherry, after dinner arrests digestion and 
causes acidity and flatulence. 



40 A MANUAL OF DIET 

Tea should be taken about three or four hours after dini^, 
and should on no account be made a meal of ; one slice of 
bread or a biscuit is all that should be taken with it. Sojpe 
dyspeptics are better without any supper, but many people 
sleep better with a little food in the stomach, A corn fli^r or 
arrowroot pudding, a light boiled eggy curds and whey, 
or a slice of chicken may be taken at this meal. The dys- 
peptic ought to be careful how h3 indulges at this meal, for 
at no meal in the day is he so apt to err. Many with^ 
weak digestion prefer supper to any other meal, and are 
therefore liable to take too much, which causes them uneasy 
nights with dreams and nightmare ; besides, the appetite is 
spoiled for the morning meal, which, as already observe^ 
ought to be the heartiest of the day. No rule can be given 
for the quantity of liquid taken witU dinner and supper, but 
too little is always better than too much. Malt liquor ought 
to be avoided, yet some cases may be benefited by a glass 
of Dublin stout before retiring to rest, but at no other t^e 
of the day. 

The following is a list of the articles of diet that the dys- 
peptic would do well to avoid: — Cheese, pastry,aielted butter, 
pork, game, when it is high, rich soups, veal, hard bofled ^ 
eggs, mushrooms, raw fruit or vegetables, all kinds of shell 
fish, native oysters excepted. 

While a. strict system of diet is recommended to the 
dyspeptic, it must not be supposed that he is to select the 
most digestible articles of diet and take them every day, for 
this would be committing a grave error in the opposite 
direction. Variety is frequently everything to the wealf 
stomach, and the diet should be as varied as possible, even 
at the risk of taking a little that is set down in the foregoing 
list. Most invalids will find a sufficient variety among the 



■» t 



FOR THE INYALID AND DTSPEPTIC. 41 

ajticles of diet mentioned in Chapter II, which are both easy 
of digestion and nutritious ; thus there will rarely be an excuse 
f#r straying from the correct path. Amongst the aids to 
digestion, judicious exercise in the open air holds an im- 
portant place, and it is one which we frequently find 
altogether nfeglected or abused. No class suffers from 
indigestion more than those who have close confined occu- 
pations, requiring little or no muscular exertion. Females, 
ffom the nature of their employment, suffer more in this 
way than males, and they not unfrequently go on suffering 
for years until serious disease is established, and then, and 
not till then, they seek medical advice. A certain amount 
Hf exercise in the open air is necessary for every one, if the 
strength allows it, but persons Who are weakly must be 
careful hq/w they take their exercise ; for injudicious exercise 
would only aggravate the disease it was intended to cure. 
Dr. Chambers, a physician who has had a great experience 
ii^this disease, says that he has met with more literary men 

* who suffer from taking too much exercise than from taking 
none at all. 
^ No ^e shotild sit down to a heavy meal when the body is 

' fatigued, far jl^ss a dyspeptic. In extreme fatigue a cup of 
tea and a biscuit or a glass of light wine may be taken, but 
nothing heavier. The best kind of exercise is riding, the 
next best* is walking, and for the weak a drive in an open 
carriage may be enough. Running and gymnastics are only 
for the strong, but whatever is the kind of exercise it should ■*' 
always be proportioned to the strength, as an excess, especially 
lb those who work with the mind, would only make matters 
worse instead of better. Change of air and scene is perhaps 
the best of all known remedies for indigestion, and though 
the effect ii generally only temporary, no sufferer who can 



42 A MANUAL OP DIET 

afford it ought to neglect this means. Who has not seen in 
himself and others the effect of a trip to the sea-side or to 
some mountainous district ? The strength seems renewed, the 
appetite that was once so dainty has all at once become so 
ravenous that there is no fear of any diet, however indigestible, 
disagreeing ; the spirits that were depressed and miserable 
a week before become buoyant and joyful now, and the whole 
frame seems renewed. It is difficult to account for such a * 
change, but no doubt the effect on the mind is greater than 
that on the body. Contmuous travellmg is better than a 
residence in one place, but when the dyspeptic from any 
reason cannot travel, a residence in a dry bracing 
atmosphere is the best. Mountain air is generally pre- 
ferable to sea air, and a ramble among the mountains 
of Switzerland or the Highlandaof Scotland is preferable 
to the sea-side. 

Cold bathing as a remedy for dyspepsia is not so well 
known as it deserves. The bracing effect of a cold bath is 
not confined to the external parts of the body but is general 
throughout the whole system. Friction over the region of 
the stomach after bathing, with a dry toweUor flesh brush, 
ought to be employed, as it causes a slight amount of counter 
irritation and helps the reaction that ought to come after the 
bath. 

Certain mineral waters are useful in some forms of dys- 
pepsia, but patients must not believe all the rubbish that 
they find in the puffing books of parties interested in drawing 
patients to certain springs. 

It is a well known fact that the good, in many instancei^ 
said to be derived from medicated waters, is attributable 
entirely to the change of air, change of scene, and the 
cheerful society that a patient meets with at these places. 



FOB THE INVALID AKD DTSPE1»TIC. 43 

.The early hours and regular exercise are another source of 
health connected with watering resorts.* 

With reference to the medicinal treatment of dyspepsia, 
the following simple prescription may be tried when the 
symptoms are not severe. Great attention should, however, 
be given to the hygienic treatment contained in the pre- 
ceding pages, especially the rules with reference to diet and 
exercise, which, if strictly attended to, are often in them- 
selves sufficient to cure indigestion. 

For dyspepsia, with debility not accompanied by irritation 
of the stomach :— 

Sulphate of quinine, eight grains. 

Dilute phosphoric acid, two drachms. 

Chloric aether, three drachms. 

Water, twelve ounces. Mix. 



* During the aattimn of last year the writer visited the principal mineral 
wells of England, and though the towns founded on the reputation of the mineral 
are in a flourishing state, the waters themselves were getting into disrepute. 
The splendid temples erected over these wells were all deserted, and some of 
them, such as Cheltenham, falling into decay. The proprietors of the wells 
were complaining sadly that visitors seemed to get careless about the waters, 
and came more fbr the society and bracing air than anything else. Harrogate 
■eems ttf be the only place that is an exception to this. The waters are stiU 
drunk there in considerable quantities, but Harrogate has nothing else but its 
waters to reconmiend it ; the other places hav& 

The hydropathic system seemed, indeed, to be flourishing at Great Malvern^ 
but the beauty of the scenery in this charming spot is sufficient in Itself to 
attract visitors, and once there, if the visitor is in any degree an invalid or sup. 
poses himself to be one, he will be strong minded indeed if he does not fall a 
prey to the apostles of hydropathy that throng this beautiful spot. The 
mineral water of the Leamington spa is slightly aperient and very useful in 
cases of dyspepsia with congestion of the Uver and torpor of the bowels. The 
interesting localities and charming scenery in the neighbourhood are likewise a 
Hipreat attraction. The waters of the Boyal Spa, Cheltenham, do not differ much 
from those of Leamington^ but the latter is the best residence for the invalid in 
many respects. 

Tunbridge Wells and Clifton are very suitable to the dyspeptic on account of 
their climate, but the waters in these places are not suitable for ordinary cases 
of dyspepsia. 



44 A MANUAL OP DIET 

Take two tablespoonfuls three times a day half-an- 
hour before meals. 
For dyspepsia, accompanied by irritability of stomach and 
vomiting :— 

Sub-nitrate of bismuth, forty grains. 

Chloric sether, two drachms. 

Infusion of columba root, ten ounces. Mix. 

Take two tablespoonfuls three times a day before meals. 
For dyspepsia with sour eructations : — 

Bi-carbonate of potash, two drachms. 

Tincture of calumba, half an ounce. 

Tincture of ginger, two drachms. 

Infusion of quassia wood, twelve ounces. Mix. 

Take two tablespoonfuls three times a day. 
Draught to relievo flatulent distension after meals : — 

Sal volatile, thirty drops. 

Tincture of ginger and compound tincture of gentian, 
of each forty drops. 

Water, one ounce. Mix. 



FOR THE INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 45 



CHAPTER YI. 



HINTS ON NURSIN(j — importance op domestic nursing — 

THE SICK ROOM — ^MAXIMS ON NURSINGS-QUALIFICATIONS OP A 
NURSE — PAINTING FITS, VOMITING — CONTAGION — ON THE 
APPLICATION OP POULTICES, STUPES, ENEMAS, BLISTERS. 

In the few remarks I have to offer on nursing, there 
is nothing I would insist upon more than the import- 
ance of domestic nursing. When it is at all practicable 
it is better not to have a hired nurse ; not that I by- any 
means disparage that useful class of females who are 
frequently so indispensable to us, and perform such arduous 
and self-denying duties in our hospitals and other public 
institutions ; but I would entreat all mothers, wives, and 
sisters to make themselves acquainted with the details 
of nursing, and not to shrink from the duty when the 
occasion presents itself. 

The patient very often, especially if his mind is affected 
in any degree — and it is not seldom the case in the worst 
stages of a severe illness — looks upon the hired nurse as a 
kind of enemy, and the idea of having a stranger about him 
is sufficient in itself to make him fidgety and irritable. 
Medicine or food from her hand are not so pleasant as they 
would be from the hands of a relative, who would perform 
the duty not in consideration of shillings and pence to be 
received, but out of. pure love and sympathy. In nursing 
the sick one grain of love is worth ten grains of skill and 
dexterity ; and besides, what is more elevating to our moral 
nature than to be brought in contact with suffering ? It 
enlarges our sympathies and cultivates the least selfish parts 



46 A MANUAL OF DIET 

of our nature. We see the poor daily recovering from severe 
illness in miserable hovels, and that too in a shorter space 
of time than in a public hospital, where they have all the 
advantages of pure air, good nursing, and the best of medical 
attendance. What can this be owing to more than that 
the poor man feels he is at home, however squalid that 
home may be, and that he is not subject to the discipline of 
an hospital, and that those who minister to him are not 
hirelings, but loving relations who are sincerely interested 
m his recovery. That our hospitals for the sick are the 
best institutions of which our country can boast few will 
deny ; but the multiplication of hospitals, if it goes on at 
the rate it has been doing for some time past in London, 
will one day be found to be an evil. Hospitals exclusively 
for contagious diseases are certainly necessary, and of these 
we have not yet enough, but of special hospitals we have 
already too many. 

There is no truer saying than that the good nursing of the 
sick is half the cure^ and a sympathising, intelligent nurse is 
often of as much consequence to a patient as a physician. 
Yet how sadly this branch of sick aid has been neglected ; 
until lately it was generally supposed that a woman who 
was fit for nothing else might do for a sick nurse. Miss 
Nightingale, wlio is called the modern apostle of sick-nursing, 
deserves the nation's gratitude for her efforts in this cause. 
Her work has akeady borne considerable fruit, and will no 
doubt bear more. To alleviate human suffering, in however a 
humble way, is a noble duty, and one peculiarly fitted to the 
instincts of the female mind, and we hope to see sick-nursing 
one day among the graces of female accomplishments. 

The Sick-Room. — The aspect of a sick-room ought to 
be cheerful, and, when possible, towards the south or west. 



FOR THE INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 47 

It should not contain one article of furniture more than 
is absolutely necessary, and everything ought to be neat 
and in its place. An untidy room has a depressing effect on 
many patients, and none but those who have felt it can tell 
how any thing out of its place will fidget and annoy him. 
A few pictures or flowers are frequently a great comfort. 
They help to vary his thoughts and take them away 
from himself, which is oft^n of great consequence. A small 
pet animal, as a bird, when he is recovering, will amuse him 
and help to wile the weary hoars of sickness. The sick- 
room ought to be perfectly clean and sweet. No pains 
ought to be spared in this way, for any thing that will in the 
least degree contaminate the atmosphere may be very injuri- 
ous to the sick, especially where there is a wound or open 
sore either through an operation or an accident. An iron 
bedstead, with steel spring mattress, as recommended by 
Miss Nightingale, is the best ; but when this cannot be had, 
a common iron bedstead with a hair mattress will do. Tlie 
old four posters, with close curtains, will, I hope, in a short 
time be found only in our museums. It is better that the 
room should be carpeted, if the disease is not contagious ; 
an uncarpeted room looks dismal to a patient, and the 
movements of the nurse or friends annoy him more from the 
noise ; but when it is a case of fever, carpets and all other 
materials of a like description ought, as far as possible, to be 
dispensed with. When there is sufficient room two beds 
are a great comfort to a patient. To be shifted from one 
to the other is often very grateful to him and does not 
fatigue, while the bed clothes can be changed and aired. 
Great care ought to be taken in removing the secretions and 
keeping utensils clean. A little of Condy's disinfecting 
fluid is very useful for this purpose* V^\vtAk»kjkSs^ <5f^^^jB55s.\s^ 



48 A MANUAL OF DIET 

bs strictly attended to, and the atmosphere changed, at least 
twice a day. In acute diseases of the chest, ventilation ongbt 
to be carried out as directed by the medical attendant, as it 
will not do in every case to blow fresh air on the patient. 
The best way to ventilate a room is to let down the windows 
from the top and open the door. While this is being done, 
if the weather is cold, a good fire ought to be burning, and 
in any weather the patient ought to be well covered up while 
ventilation is performed. When the atmosphere is foggy 
and damp outside it is better to trust to ventilation from 
the staircase than risk the introduction of a damp atmos- 
phere loaded, as it of ten is in towns, with particles of soot 
which will irritate the patient's lungs. 

The sick chamber ought to be well lighted as a rule. 
There are certain cases of head affections when too much 
light will aggravate suffering, but in most diseases a 
moderate quantity of light, if it does not pain the patient's 
eyes, ought to be admitted. This should be especially 
attended to during convalesence, when light materially aids 
the progress towards recovery. Every sick-room ought to 
have a thermometer. This little instrument, which has been 
such a great aid to science, is now so cheap as to be within 
the reach of all, and the use of it is so simple that every 
domestic who is able to read figures can use it ; the most 
suitable temperature in these climates is from fifty-one to 
sixty-four. 

In chest affections the temperature ought to be higher, 
and in fevers lower than the figures mentioned. A bright 
fire is preferable to any other mode of warming. In hot 
weather the heat may be moderated by using coloured blinds, 
and allowing a free circulation of air. 
Every sick-room oag at to have a small table near the bed, 



rOB THE INVALID AND DTSPEPTIC. 49 

but if possible out of the patient's sight, where medicine, 
medicine glasses, drinks that the patient uses, and other 
necessaries should be kept. 

Rules for feeding a patient have been given, and need not 
be repeated here. Medicine should never be given imnlfedi- 
ately after food ; it is apt to cause nausea an^d sickness. 
Medicines that have a disagreeable taste ought to be given 
with a dish having a long spout, with the aid of which they 
can be swallowed without causing much taste in the mouth. 
It is better not to have the medicine in the patient's sight ; this 
rule applies especially to children. Sponging with luke warm 
water is very grateful to a patient, and ought to be practised 
every morning with the permission of the medical attendants 

In the severe stages of an illness a patient ought to be 
kept as quiet as possible, but during recovery the visits of a 
few friends, if not prolonged, will frequently cheer him and 
do him good, but this point ought to be regulated in a great 
measure by the patient's feelings. Music and reading aloud 
are often soothing, and help to divert attention from his 
ailments. Never allow any whispering conversation, either in 
the sick-room or outside the door ; the patient will always 
suppose the conversation is about himself, and that it is 
something about his ailments that it is not good for him to 
hear. This will set him thinking about his condition, and 
he Avill probably imagine it is worse than he thought, or his 
friends and medical attendant lead him to believe. Never be 

« 

in a hurry in a sick-room ; it worries the patient more than 
any one is aware of. 

Qualifications op a Ndrse. — ^Above all things a nurse 
ought to have a loving and sympathising heart. This is not 
an acquired faculty but a natural one, and a nurse who has 
not got it, is wanting in one of the cliiet ^lea!L'BDX&'*^^ ^^j^sgjjis. 

i> 



50 A MANUAL OF DIET 

to form her cliaracter. Her duties will be in a great measure 
to witness sufiFeringj^and the nurse who gets callous and in- 
different to human suffering is the most odious of all beings. 
Not that I would ''have a nurse simper and cry over every 
patient, but I would have her feel and understand that human 
suffering is a sacred thing and comes from God^ and should 
be respected accordingly. 

Discretion is the next important qualification of a nurse. 
To be able to know when to speak and when to be silent is 
a faculty that few possess, and it must be admitted that 
females are more apt to be wanting in this than the opposite 
sex. Carlyle's saying that speech is silvern, but silence 
golden, is one worth attending to by nurses. A chattering 
nurse is a nuisance to the patient and every one about her. 
Most nurses have, or suppose they have, some knowledge of 
diseases, and frequently take a pride in questioning the 
medical attendant's opinion, or ordering the patient some 
favourite remedy or food of their own. Although this is 
frequently done with the very best intentions, it is a prac- 
tice that cannot be too strongly condemned, as it may lead 
to infinite harm and will not benefit in one case in a thousand. 
Moreover, the prac tice is dishonest, for it misleads the physician, 
and causes him to lose faith in his remedies when he finds 
symptoms arising that he did not calculate upon or expect. 
A nurse should never make comparisons between her patients. 
These comparisons are frequently absurd, and if they are made 
in a patient's hearing discourage and annoy. It is no part 
of a nurse's duty to offer an opinion as to the probability of 
a patient's recovery ; that ought always to be left to the 
patient's medical adviser. 

Presence of mind is an important qualification in a nurse. 
To be cool and collected in an emergency, such as that of 



FOR THE INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 51 

a patient fainting or having a fit, is not only of great im- 
portance to the sufferer, who wilUhave the advantage of 
having near him a person who has her wits about her, but 
will inspire the friends with confidence, and make them feel at 
case. A nurse who gets excited is sure to blunder and do 
more harm than good. 

The dress of a nurse ought to be neat and tidy, and 
scrupulously clean; a light colour is the best. Silks and 
crinoline are forbidden. It need hardly be mentioned that 
a nurse ought to be strictly temperate; one who is any- 
thing else ought never to be trusted. To be able to write 
legibly is of great importance to a nurse, for the noting of 
symptoms and effects of remedies is often an important guide 
to the medical attendant. 

Casualties in the Sick Room. — To know how to act 
in Budden casualties that may happen, not only in the sick 
room, but in ordinary every day life, is very important to 
every female to know. What is wanting on such occasions, 
generally, is presence of mind. Every one gets excited and 
the patient may die before any one has the courage to do 
anything for him. The terror that is inspired by seeing any 
one faint or fall in a fit is frequently superstitious and 
unmeaning, and ought to be combated in every possible way. 
Fainting is not an uncommon occurrence, and is caused by a 
partial cessation of the action of the heart. The patient 
feels giddy, a cold perspiration breaks out, and he is partially 
insensible for a few minutes. When he is not weak 
it is not dangerous, and no alarm ought to be felt, but if the 
fainting occurs in a person already weakened by disease it is 
not a good symptom, and recurrence ought to be avoided 
as far as possible. Patients recovering from dangerous 
illnesses, such as fevers, are very apt to faint when raised up 



52 A MANUAL OF DIET 

« 

in bed. This should be carefallj guarded against, as it is 
not unattended with danger. When any such tendency 
manifests itself, patients ought to have a cup of tea with 
two teaspoonfuls of brandy in it, or two tablespoonfuls of 
beef tea, before any attempt is made to move them. If a 
patient faints away he ought to be laid flat on a bed or on 
the floor, and cold water sprinkled on his face. His neck 
should be made bare and plenty of cold air allowed to blow 
upon him. Another person ought to promote respiration 
by pressing the ribs on each side, so as to expel the foul air 
from the lungs. Wrapping the feet in warm flannel, if at 
hanci, is a good plan. Where the patient is sufficiently re- 
covered to be able to swallow, a little brandy or other 
stimulant may be administered ; but great caution ought to 
be observed not to administer anything while the patient is 
partially insensible, as it might go down the windpipe and 
cause suffocation. 

Fits. — Convulsions are more frequent in children than in 
adults, but they are dangerous and alarming in either. The 
fits of children generally arise from teething, or some indiges- 
tible matter in the stomach or bowels causing irritation; 
whereas, in adults, fits seldom occur except in epileptic or 
liysterical patients. When a child takes a fit, the first thing 
to be done is to strip off its clothes and put it into a bath, 
the heat of which is from 80 to 90 degrees. While in the 
bath, artificial respiration may be assisted as directed for 
fainting. Five minutes is about the time it ought to remain 
in the water, and when taken cut it should be wrapt in a 
warm flannel or blanket. When a child takes one fit it is 
very apt to have more ; and this fact being known, some 
warm water ought to be kept in readiness in case it is wanted 
figain. An aperient of some kind, such as a calomel and 



FOR TDE INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 53 

« 

rhubarb powder, is always beneficial when a child recovers 
from a fit, and if a medical attendant is not at hand to 
advise it can always be given with safety. When fits 
come on in succession, medical advice ought to be instantly 
sought, as they always indicate danger. Convulsions of 
various kinds affect adults, but two only need be mentioned 
here, viz., the epileptic and hysterical. The former is well 
known as the 'Tailing sickness,*' and is a very distressing and 
frequently an incurable m alady . Patients affected in this way 
ought to be very careful in what they eat and drink, for 
any irregularity is sure to bring on a fit. It is very impor- 
tant to the epileptic patient, although he may not be cured, 
to ward off as many fits as possible, for each fit damages 
the brain, and. I'enders the accession of another at a shorter 
period of time more certain. By observation, and using 
certain precautions that experience sanctions, the poor 
epileptic might be saved a great many fits and his life in all 
probability materially leogthened. When a patient is in an 
epileptic fit the first thmg to be done is to put a cork or 
some other soft substance between the teeth to prevent 
injury to the tongue, for this organ is frequently very much 
lacerated from getting between the teeth during the con- 
vulsive action of the strong muscles of the jaws. After this, 

everything about the neck ought to be undone and the chest 

« 

laid bare. If the patient is a female, loosen the stays. 
The only other precaution necessary is to see that the sufferer 
has plenty of fresh air, and that he does not injure himself 
when struggling. The administration of remedies ought not 
to be attempted, as the patient is not able to swallow for 
some time after recovery. When the fit is over he 
generally lays in a heavy sleep for some tune, from which no 
attempt should be made to awaken him. 



54 A MANUAL OF DIET 

Hysterical fits nearly always occur in females, and assume 
very various forms; they are seldom dangerous, though 
always troublesome and alarming. 

To distinguish hysterical from epileptic fits is not always 
easy, but the following symptoms ought to be observed :— 
In real epilepsy there is always total insensibility; in 
hysteria, never. In epilepsy there is foaming at the mouth ; 
in hysteria this is rare. Screaming is frequent in hysterical 
convulsions ; but, with the exception of the first scream, in 
epilepsy no such symptoms occur. These are the principal 
points of distinction between the two diseases. In treating 
hysteria, nothing else is necessary than to see that the 
patient does not injure herself. Cold water dashed with 
some violence into the face will frequently effect a mar- 
vellous cure. 

YoMirmG is often a troublesome and dangerous symptom 
in a patient, and requires great skill on the part of the nurse 
to correct. The stomach not unfrequently gets into such a 
state that it will not even bear a teaspoonful of cold water 
without causing the most violent retching. When this is the 
case it is better to administer nothing to the patient by the 
mouth ; sufficient nutriment, if absolutely necessary, can be 
introduced by beef-tea enemata, and thirst can be assuaged 
by allowing small pieces of ice to dissolve in the mouth. A 
mustard poultice ought to be applied over the region of the 
stomach, and the extremities kept warm. When the 
stomach has rested for some time the u'ritability passes of, 
and small quantities of nutriment may be given by the 
mouth. The mildest aliment is milk, mixed with an equal 
quantity of lime water. This may be given at first in 
tablespoonfuls repeated every quarter of an hour, the 
quantity being gradually increased as the stomach gets 



FOR THE INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC, 65 

stronger. After a time beef-tea concentrated, and in small 
doses, guarded with a few drops of brandy, may be given, 
or small quantities of light puddings. The best drink is 
good soda water, given in small quantities — about a wine* 
glassful at a time, with a teaspoonful of brandy. Great 
firmness is necessary in such cases, as the patient has 
great craving for drink, although he knows his stomach 
will reject it, and that he is none the better, but rather the 
worse, for it. The friends are often officious, and, in their 
fear of the patient sinking, will frequently administer food 
injudiciously, and in direct opposition to the medical atten- 
dant's orders. 

Contagion. — In the simple diseases of children, such as 
hooping-cough and measles, the avoidance of contagion, 
except for special reasons, is unnecessary. No children, 
especially in towns, avoid these complaints, and from one to 
two years is a good age to pass through them. As to 
small-pox, it may be passed over. Every one, rich or poor, 
has the means at hand to protect themselves from this the 
most terrible of our diseases, and any one who neglects 
vaccination from foolhardiness or obstinate conceit, deserves 
the punishment which is the inevitable consequence. 

Scarlet fever is a very contagious disorder,^ and is often 
fatal to children. By strict attention to the following rules 
it may be prevented from spreading in a house. When a 
child or grown-up person has this disorder, they ought to be 
kept to one room, and the nurse who attends to them ought 
to have nothing to do with the other inmates of the house. 
The room ought to be as bare as possible, and especially 
should all woollen articles be dispensed with, as far as 
practicable. The room ought to be well ventilated, and some 
disinfectant, such as carbolic acid, should be exposed in it. 



66 * A MANUAL OF DIET 

Tb^ excreta ought to be disinfected with this substance,^ 
and the patient sponged with a weak solution of it. 

Patients ought to be kept to their rooms for five weeks. 
When these precautions are taken there is generally little 
fear of contagion or the disease spreading. In the houses 
of the poor, where there is only one room for a whole 
family, the contagious poison should be modified by strict 
attention to ventilation, and the use of disinfectants. The 
same rules apply to typhus and gastric or enteric fevers. 

Poultices. — The art of poultice-making was once con- 
sidered one of the chief accomplishments of an hospital 
nurse. These applications are not used so much now as 
formerly, but they are still, in many cases not only useful, 
but indispensable. Crushed linseed is generally used for 
this purpose. It is made into a poultice by pouring boiling 
water over it in a basin, and stirring well until it is of a 
proper consistence. The principal points to be attended to 
are the proper quantity of water and thorough stirring, so 
that the poultice will be smooth and of the same consistence 
throughout. When it is intended to act as a counter- 
irritant a little dry mustard is sprinkled over the face of it, 
and applied with a thin layer of muslin between it and the 
skin. This is a much better plan, when mustard is to be 
used, than applying the mustard with water only. Bread 
poultice is made by cutting large slices about an inch thick 
off a loaf. Put them into a basin, and pour boiling water 
on ; cover the basin over, and let the bread soak for ten 
minutes, then lay it on without breaking the bread. 
Another way is to rub the bread down smooth with the 
hand, and then pour the boiling water on it, 

A bran poultice is made by scalding bran with boiling 
water and putting it over the seat of pain. As bran is not 



FOE THE INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 57 

** adherent, it is better to envelope it in a cloth before 
Applying it. 

A turpentine stupe is made by wringmg a piece of flannel 
out of hot water, then sprinkling it with turpentine, and 
applying it over the seat of pain. Care must be taken that 
too much turpentine is not used and the patient unnecessarily 
punished. Solution of ammonia may be used instead of 
turpentine when a stronger effect is desired; but its use 
requires caution. 

Enemas. — To know how to administer an enema is very 
important. The best instrument for the purpose is the 
common India rubber pipe with a valve in the middle, and 
worked by a bulb. 

Aperient Enema. — Castor oil, one ounce ; turpentine, a 
teaspoonful ; warm water, two pints. 

Enema to relieve the Lower Bowel. — Warm water, 
two pints ; common soap, half-an-ounce. Dissolve, 

Starch Enemas are very useful to relieve pain, and 
bearing down of the bowels. The starch should be made 
in the ordinary way, but rather thinner, and a few drops of 
laudanum added to it, according to the age of the patient. 
It ought to be remembered that laudanum acts on the 
system when given in this way as well as when given by the 
mouth. It is therefore dangerous to give it to children 
without medical advice. The india-rubber bottle, with a 
smooth ivory pipe, is the best instrument for children. 

In common costiveness an enema of warm water is 
frequently preferable to an aperient dose. People often get 
into the habit of taking purgative medicines, which is 
difl&cult to leave off, and which inevitably leads to indiges- 
tion, and still more obstinate costiveness. By using a 
warm water enema occasionally this state of things may 



58 A MANUAL OF DIET FOB THE XNTALID AND DTSPBFTIC. 



■» 



1be obviated^ and a natural action of the bowels induced, 
which may be still farther helped by using a diet calculated 
to act on the lower intestine. Brown bread, as mentioned 
before, is good for this purpose. Stewed fruit, and fresh 
"Vegetables well cooked, are likewise recommended. 

Blisters. — ^As blisters are always prepared at the 
chemists, no directions for preparing them need be given 
here. A fly blister is a strong remedy, and ought not to be 
used without medical advice. A blister ought to remain on 
from four to ten hours, as the medical attendant orders. 
Some people have very tender skins, on these a period of 
four hours will produce more effect than ten hours on 
others. Although there may be no raising of the skin 
when the blister is removed, if a poultice is applied it is sore 
to rise in a short time. Where the vesicles are large they 
ought to be clipped. Spermaceti ointment on cotton wool 
may be applied for a dressing. The active principle of 
Spanish flies spread on paper, as prepared by Mr. Brown, 
of Birmingham, is generally preferable to the old cantharides 
ointment. The preparation of a mustard blister is too well- 
known to require description. A very elegant invention has 
been introduced by Mr. Cooper, called *' Sinapine." 
Directions for using it accompany each package. Sold by 
A. Cooper, Abingdon Terrace, Pembroke Square, Kensing- 
ton, London. 



THE END. 



APPENDIX OF FORMUt^ 



The following receipts are mostly collected from the best works 
on cookery. Some of them are altered to suit the digestion of the 
invalid. In making the selection, care has been taken to pre- 
sent as great a variety as possible without departing from the 
legitimate sphere of invalid diet. 

Beef Tea — ^Liebig's Receipt. 

Mince very small a pound of good juicy lean beef. Pour upon it 
one pint of cold water. Place in an oven, or by the fire, covered, 
for three or four hours. It must not be boiled, and the heat should 
not exceed 160®. Add salt and pepper to the taste. 

Weak beef tea may be made with cold water. Infuse the minced 
beef in cold water for six or eight hours, then press the juice out 
of the meat. Heat the liquor when wanted, and add salt and 
pepper, 

Ceepydd's Receipt. 

Let the cook understand that the virtue of beef tea is to contain 
all the contents and flavours of lean beef in a dilute form, and its 
vices are to be sticky and strong, and to set in too hard a jelly when 
cold. When she understands this let her take half a pound of 
fresh killed beef for every pint of tea she wants, and carefully 
remove all fat, sinew, veins, and bone. Let it be cut up into pieces 
under an inch square and set to soak for twelve hours in one third 
of the water required to be made into tea. Then let it be taken 
out and simmered for three hours in the remaining two-thirds of the 
water, the quantity lost by evaporation being replaced from time 
to time. The boiling liquor is then to be poured on the cold 
liquor in which the meat was soaked. The solid meat is to be 
dried, pounded in a mortar, and minced so as to cut up all strings 
in it, and mixed with the liquid. 



GO APPENDIX OF FORMULiE 

• When the beef tea is made daily it is convenient to use one day's 
boiled meat for tlie next day's tea, as thus it has time to dry and 
is easiest pounded. 

Some persons find it more palatable for a clove of garlic being 
rubbed on the spoon with which the whole is stirred. 

Another Fobm. 

The beef must be very fresh. Take four pounds of the upper 
side of the round, cut it into small pieces (leave out every bit of 
fat), put it into a jar with a saltspoonful of salt and three pints 
of cold water ; tie it closely down, place it in a saucepan of water, 
and and let it boil gently for five hours. Strain and serve with 
fresh made dry toast cut in fingers. The precaution of passing a 
piece of stale bread over the surface, lest there be any particle of 
fat, will be well observed. 

Note. — Boiled rice or tapioca may be added if liked. 

Mixed Meat Tea. 

One pound of lean beef, one pound of lean veal, one pound of lean 
mutton, all very fresh, and cut up into small pieces. Put the meat 
into a bright stewpan with three pints of water, a saltspoonful of 
salt, and simmer gently, skimming often, for four hours ; then strain. 
Twenty minutes bsfore serving moisten a teaspoonful of Du Barry's 
Revalenta Arabica with a wineglassf ul of cold water, and stir into 
half a pint of the tea ; boil slowly for twenty minutes. — Ckeftdd. 

Cold Essence op Beef. 

Take half a pound of newly killed beef or fowl, chop it fine, add 
twelve ounces of distilled water, four drops of pure muriatic acid, 
Bi to 67 grains of common salt, and stir well together. After an 
hour the whole is to be thrown on a conical hair sieve, and the 
fluid allowed to pass through without any pressure. The first 
thick portions that pass are to be returned to the sieve until the 
fluid runs through quite clear. On the flesh residue in the sieve 
pour slowly six ounces of distilled water, and let it run through. 
There will be thus obtained about sixteen fluid ounces of cold 
juice (cold extract of flesh; of a red colour, and possessing a 
pleasant taste of soup ; of which a wineglassful may be taken at 



TO A MANUAL OF DIET. 61 

pleasure. It must not be warmed (at least not to a greater extent* 
than can be effected by partially filling a bottle with it, and stand- 
ing this in hot water), since it is rendered muddy by heat, and 
deposits a thick coagulum of albumen and the colouring matiffit 
of blood. Very valuable in cases of continued fever, in dysentery, 
and indeed in all diseases attended with great prostration and 
weakness of the digestive organs. When the flavour is thougl^t 
disagreeable it may be concealed by the addition of spice, or of a 
wineglassful of claret to each teacupful of soup. 

Essence of Ms&Br, 

Take a pound of lean beef free from skin and fat, chop it up, ' 
put it into a large earthen jar with cover, cement the edges with 
flour paste, tie it up tightly with a cloth, plunge it into a saucepan 
and let it boil for two hours, pour off the liquid essence from the 
coagulated muscle ; let it stand till cold and skim off the fat. 

When beef tea cannot be immediately procured, or when the 
patients are not likely to get it properly prepared, Gillon's beef tea 
or Liebig's extract form good substitutes. They are sold by most 
respectable Chemists and Grocers, and directions for preparing 
them accompany each packet or tin. Many preparations are now 
sold imder the name of Liebig's essence of beef, but that prepared 
by Mr. Tooth of Sydney, and sold in London by Messrs. Coleman, 
of 13, St. Mary-at-hill, E.C., is the purest. 

Invalid Soup. 
Gravy beef, 1 lb.; scragg of mutton, 1 lb.; isinglass, 2 oz.'; 
vermicelli, 3 oz. ; mushroom ketchup, 3 tablespoonfuls ; corns of 
allspice, 24 : sage, a sprig ; cold water, 3 quarts ; put the isinglass 
and the meat cut small into the cold water, gradually boil, skim 
well, and then add the other ingredients ; simmer four or five 
hours till reduced to 1 quart, strain through a fine hair sieve, and 
carefully remove all fat; add salt to the taste. This may be 
taken cold, as a jelly, or warm, as a soup. 

Mutton Broth. 
Neck of mutton (fat removed as far as possible), 1 lb. ; cold 
water, 2 pints ; gently boil six hours to yield 1 pint of broth, from 
which all fat is to be removed on cooling. 



62 APPENDIX OP FORMULA 

Mutton or Veal Broth. 

Take of mutton or veal, four pounds ; cold water, three quarts ; 
a little salt ; and rice, 4 oz. Simmer for four hours, hoil for a few 
Jlinutes, strain, and serve. 

CmcKBN AND Veal Broth. 

These are esteemed lighter, and less stimulating, than beef tea. 
They contain a good deal of gelatine, which here replaces the 
albumen of beef. Take a knuckle of veal, a cow heel or two, or 
the legs and wings of fowls, and divide into pieces the size of 

^* walnuts. Boil slowly for two hours. Flavour with parsley, leeks, 

'^x>r onions to taste. Add pepper and salt. 

Chicken Broth. 
Cut up a fowl, and break the leg bones ; put it into a stewpan, 

with a quart of cold water, a teaspoonfnl of salt, and a teaspoonful 

of loaf sugar. Boil gently, skimming constantly, for four hours. 

Strain into a basin. When cold, take off the fat. Make a cupful 

hot when required. 

Note. — With this broth a little tender macaroni may be served 

for a change. Boil the macaroni in plenty of water, with half*a- 

saltspoonful of salt in it, till quite tender, drain on a sieve, and 

cut into half -inch lengths. 

Veal Tea. 
'^ut up into small pieces three pounds of lean veal ; put it into 
an enamelled saucepan, with three pints of cold water, and a salt- 
spoonful of salt. When it boils, skim very carefully. Simmer for 
three hours. Strain into a basin. When cold, take off the fat. 
When required, pour half a pint, while boiling, on to a teaspoonful 
of arrowroot, mixed with a dessertspoonful of the cold veal tea. 

Minced Chicken* 

Cut the meat off a small chicken, free it from skin and sinews, 
and crack the bones. Put the bones and trimmings into an 
enamelled saucepan with a pint of water and a saltspoonful of salt, 
and simmer, skimming frequently, for two hours and a-half, then 
strain and skim off all the fat. Mince the meat and dredge over it 
a teaspoonful of . Oswego flour, put into the gravy, and simmer 



TO A MANUAL OF DIET. 63 

(stirring often) for twenty-five minutes, then serve with toasted 
bread sippets. Cooked chicken may be used ; in that case omit the 
Oswego, and add the well-beaten yolk of a new-laid egg, stirred in 
for one minute before serving, and simmer only for ten minutes. 



Bboilbd Mutton Chop. 






The chops should be off the middle of the loin, three-quarters of 
an inch tiiick, and not too fat. The gridiron must be quite clean, 
the fire quick and bright, the chops turned two or three times with 
steak tongs, or by placing a fork in the fat. For those who like 
them underdone, ten minutes will ber sufficient ; well done fifteea 
minutes. Serve them between two hot plates (a chop to each per<« 
son) the moment they are done and without any addition. 

Note. — ^In giving orders to the butcher for mutton chops, T)e 
particular in saying three quarters of an inch tliick off the middle 
of the loin, and well kept old mutton. — Cbbfydd. 

LIGHT, FARINACEOUS, AND OTHER FOODS. 

Sago. 
Put half an ounce of sago into an enamelled saucepan with three- 
quarters of a pint of cold water, and boil gently for one hour and 
a quarter. Skim when it comes to the boil, and stir frequently. 
Sweeten with a dessertspoonful of sifted loaf sugar. If wine be 
ordered, two dessertspoonfuls, and if brandy, one dessertspootiftil. 

Tapioca Milk. 

Half an ounce of the best tapioca to a pint and a quarter of new 
milk. Simmer gently for two hours and a quarter, stirring fre- 
quently. Sweeten with a dessertspoonful of sifted sugar. 

FORBIDGE. 

Oatmeal two ounces, w^ater one pint. Put the water into a stew- 
pan, and as it boils dredge in the oatmeal with one hand, and with 
the other stir with a spoon ; turn out into a soup-plate, add salt or 
sugar according to taste, and pour over it half a pint of cold milk. 
Eat with a spoon, mixing the milk and oatmeal together little by 
little. 



64: APPENDIX OF FORMULA 

Rice Milk. 

Wash a tablespoonf ol of the best rice, and boil it an hour and a- 
half in a pint of new milk. Rub through a fine sieve. Sweeten 
with a dessertspoonful of sifted sugar. Boil up again for two 
minutes. 

Aebowsoot. 

Mix two teaspoonfuls of the best arrowroot with half a wine- 
glassful of cold water ; add half a pint of boiling water ; put it 
into an enamelled saucepan, and stir over the fire for three 
Diinutes. Sweeten with three teaspoonfuls of sifted sitgar. Add 
(If permitted to take it) either a wineglassful of white wine or a 
tablespoonful of brandy. 

Junket. 

Warm a quart of new milk just to the heat it would be if fresh 
from the cow. Put it into a glass dish or china bowl, and stir into 
it a tablespoonful of brandy, a tablespoonful of pounded sugar, 
and a tablespoonful and a-half of rennet. Put this just near 
enough to the fire to keep warm while turning, but do not let it 
get hot. When quite solid, put a little scalded cream over it, and 
grate a little nutmeg on the top. 

The brandy may be omitted, if not liked ; and if common rennet 
is got easily obtainable, essence of rennet (which can be had of any 
ff^d chemist, and will keep any time) will do as well. 

Junket is a delicious dish in summer ; and especially light and 
nourishing for an invalid. 

Custard. 

Put half a pint of new milk into a lined saucepan, with three 
ounces of loaf sugar, and the thinly-pared rind of half a lemon, 
and set it by the fire to get warm, and draw out the flavour of the 
lemon. Then boil it once up, and strain it into a basin. Beat up 
well two eggs, the yolks and whites first separately, and then 
together; and when the milk has got nearly cold add them 
gradually to it. Now strain the whole into a jug, which put into a 
saucepan of boiling water. Put this on the fire, and keep stirring 
the custard one way until it thickens, when take it off the fire, 
pour it into a basin, and stir in a tablespoonful of brandy. Keep 



TO A MANUAL OF DIET. 65 

stirring the custard till it cools, and then put it into glasses, an4 
grate a little nutmeg over it. 

Excellent Bice Pudding. 

Take three ounces of the best Carolina rice, and swell it rery 
gentlj in one pint of new milk. Let it cool ; then stir into it one 
ounce of fresh butter, two ounces of pounded sugar, the yolks of 
three eggs, and the grated rind of a lemon, or a few drops of the 
essence. Pour this into a well-buttered dish, but do not quite fill 
it, and then lay lightly over the top the whites of three eggs which 
have been well beaten up, with three tablespoonfuls of sifted, 
sugar. Put the pudding directly Into the oven^ the heat of which 
must be moderate, and bake it for about twenty minutes ; or till 
the egg crust has become lightly browned. 

Sago, tapioca, or macaroni; make capital puddings done in the 
same way. 

Stewed Apples. 

Peel and core six apples (according to their size)i and boll them 
to a pulp, after which pass them through a sieve or colander, and stir 
into them one ounce of sifted loaf sugar. 

Whipt Syllabub. 

Boll half a pint of cream, and then let it stand till cold. Take one 
glass of white wine — Sherry, Marsala, or Madeira — and add to ft 
the juice of quarter of a lemon, and as much sifted sugar as will 
make it very sweet. Put this, with the cream, into a basin, and 
keep whisking it rapidly all one way. Take off the froth as it 
rises, and put it into glasses. 

An agreeable and cooling diet in cases of fever. 

Abrowboot Milk. 
Mix two teaspoonfuls of arrowroot with a wineglassful of new 
milk ; add half a pint of boiling milk ; put it into an enamelled 
saucepan, and stir over the fire for three minutes. Sweeten with 
a dessertspoonful of sifted loaf sugar. 

Indian Cobn Floub. 
Mix a dessertspoonful of Brown and Poison's Indian Com Flour 
with a wineglassful of new milk ; add half a pint of boiling milk, 

E 



66 APPENDIX OF FOBMULJE 

and stir over the fire for four minutes. Sweeten with a teaspoon- 
ful of sifted loaf sugar. Add if permitted a tablespoonful of good 
cream. 

Cow Heel fob Convalescents. 
Wash a fresh boiled cow heel in cold water, cut the meat off the 
bones in neat square pieces ; put it into a bright stewpan with one 
pound of lean veal uncut, a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of 
sifted sugar, a mustardspoonful of fresh-made mustard, and a pint 
of cold water. Boil up slowly, skim, then simmer gently for three 
hours, skim and stir frequently. Mix a teaspoonful of arrowroot 
^ith a wineglassful of cold water ; take out the veal, and stir in 
the arrowroot, add two tablespoonfuls of good brown sherry, and 
serve immediately. 

Cow Heel Stewed In Milk. 
Follow the preceding receipt, omitting the veal and substitut- 
ing milk for water. Half an hour before serving, mix a dessert- 
spoonful of arrowroot with half a gill of cold milk, and stir in ; 
omit the sherry. 

Macaboni and Yebmicelli. 

Add a little cold water to an ounce of either of the above. Boil 
for a few minutes, then pour away the water, and boil in half a 
pint of milk ; or they may be made into puddings and baked. 

Macaroni is a very cheap and valuable article of sick-room diet 
It and Vermicelli may be advantageously added to any kind of 
broth, or eaten with a chicken or a chop, in place of vegetables. 
It is a perfectly safe food in all stages of illness. 

To Boil Tbipe. 
This excellent food is not appreciated, at least by the wealthier 
classes, as it deserves to be. It is the most easily digestible of all 
meats ; indeed it comes nearest to the pudding tribe. See that the 
tripe has been well cleaned, boil it in water until quite soft, then 
pour off the water and boil for a few minutes in milk, adding a 
little onion sauce. Serve in a tureen. 

Obange and otheb Jellies. 
Take one ounce of gelatine or isinglass, and melt it in a small 
qaantltjr of hot water. Squeeze the juice out oi ^iii oranges, or of 



TO A 3IANUAL OP DIET. 67 

two lemons, or oranges and lemons mixed, put in some of the outer 
rind pared thin, and a quarter of a pound of lump sugar. After 
melting the sugar in some hot water, pour on the juice, then boil 
the whole for two or three minutes, and strain. Wine or brandy 
may be added when required. 

Eoa Milk. 

Beat up the yolk of an egg in a breakfast cup ; when quite frothy 
stir into a cup of hot milk and sweeten to taste. 

Akrowroot Jelly. 

Put into a saucepan half a pint of water, one glass of sherry, a 
little nutmeg, and sugar. Give them a boil up, then mix slowly a 
dessertspoonful of arrowroot with cold water, return the whole 
into the saucepan and boil for three minutes. 

Caxyes* Feet in Milk. 

Boil two calves* feet in two pints of water and milk, for three 
hours and a-half. 

Isinglass Jellt. 

Put one ounce (or rather more) of isinglass or gelatine (the 
former is best) into a saucepan, with one quart of water. Let it 
V)il up, and keep it at a quick boiV skimming it well all the time> 
till the quantity is reduced one half. Now add to it one pint of 
sherry, and lemon juice and loaf sugar to your taste. Boil it all 
up together, and if there is any more scum take it off, and then 
strain it through a bag into a mould. The jelly should be quite 
clear. 

This jelly is very useful when calves' feet cannot easily be got, 
or when they take too long to prepare. The isinglass and gelatine^ 
vary so much, though, in quality, that it is almost impossible to 
give the exact proportions of either for making a good, but not stiff 
jelly. About an ounce and a-half, though, of isinglass, and an 
ounce of gelatine, is generally the quantity it takes to make a 
quart of jelly after the wine is added. In summer, this jelly may 
be varied, by adding the strained juice of any fruit preferred, such 
as raspberries or currants, instead oll\i^^N3iawDL^\««kS5rft.V^R.^^»^ 
will he found very cooling. 



66 APPENDIX OF FOBMULiE 

Iceland Moss Jellt. 

Take one onnce of Iceland moss, wash it well, then break it up, 
and put it to stand all night in water, just tepid when the moss 
is put in. Next morning take it out, and boil it in a quart of 
water till the quantity is reduced one half. Then strain it off into 
a basin. 

This jelly is a slight tonic^ rather bitter ; and may be taken 
either plain or with milk or wine. 

The Invaxid's Jelly. 

Boil one calf s foot in two pints and a-half of water, till it is 
reduced to one pint and a-half. Strain it through a sieve, and 
when cold take off the fat, add to it a quarter of a pint of milk or 
wine, the rind of a lemon, thinly pared ; a little nutmeg or cinnamon, 
and sugar to the taste. Boil all this together for about five minutes 
^ and then strain it through a siere. 

Bbbab Jbllt. 

I 

I Cut the cmmb of a penny roll into slices, after having taken off 

\ the crust from it. Toast these of a light brown on both sides, and 

then put them into a quart of spring water, and let them simmer 
gently over the fire till the liquid jellies. Strain this through a 
thin cloth, and while hot flavour it with lemon juice and sugar, and 
a little wine, if liked. 

In the country, where a roll cannot always be had, slices of bread 
crtunb cut and toasted, will be found to do quite as well. This 
jelly is very strengthening ; and if made plain, without flavouring, 
' may be taken in broth, milk, or any other liquid. 

) Sago Jellt. 

^ Wash well, and then boil a quarter of a pound of sago, in about 

a pint of water for one hour. Take one pound of strawberries, 
raspberries, or currants ; sweeten them well with loaf sugar, and 
then boil them for a short time till they are soft, and will rub 
through a sieve. When this is done, put the fruit back into the 
saucepan, with nearly half a pint of water, and about half an ounce 
qI isinglass or gelatine. Boil this up, but not for too long ; after 



► 



TO A MANUAL OF DIET. 69 

4 

■which, mix the sago thoronghly with the fruit, and then boil the 
whole together for a few minutes. Put into a mould, and turn out 
when cold. 
If properly made this is an excellent summer dish. 

Scotch Apple Jelly. 

Late, firm apples to be peeled and quartered, or sliced, but not 
cored. Each apple as quickly as cut to be thrown into a pan with 
just enough water to cover them. To be boiled in the same till 
quite soft, with a little sliced ginger and lemon peel to flavour it. 
Strain the juice through a jelly-bag near the fire into a basin. To 
every pint of apple juice add one pound of loaf sugar. When 
dissolved, pour it into jars or moulds, in which it is to be kept. It 
will become finer for keeping, and will last many years. 

Green gooseberry jelly may be made of unripe fruit in the same 
way. Give the jelly one boil up after the sugar is dissolved, to make 
it firmer ; and should there be any scum, take it off. 

Seville Orange Jellt. 

To every pound of bitter orange put three pints of water. Cut 
the orange into small pieces, peel and all, only keeping out the 
seeds. Let them boll slowly for six hours or more, till they are 
reduced to a third of the quantity. Run it through a jelly-bag, 
and to every pint of juice add one pound of loaf sugar. Boil again 
slowly for about twenty minutes, or till it will jelly. 

This is a capital way of taking a mild tonic. 

White Wine Jbllt. 

• 

One pint of sherry, one ounce of isinglass, two ounces of sngaf 
candy, half an ounce of gum Arabic, the quarter of a small nutmeg, 
grated, and enough loaf sugar to sweeten the whole. Simmer these 
ingredients together till all are dissolved ; then strain the liquid 
through a piece of fine muslin into a mould or basin, and when cold 
it will be a stiff jelly. 

The isinglass may be dissolved in a little hot water before it is 
added to the other ingredients ; and the nutmeg may be omitted, 
if the flavour is not liked. A tablespoon! ol may be taken several 
times a day. 



70 APPENDIX OF FORMULA 

Port Wikb Jelly. 

Take of port wine one pint, isinglass one ounce, sugar one ounce ; 
put the isinglass and sugar into quarter of a pint of water, warm 
till all is dissolved, then add the wine ; strain through muslin, and 
set to jelly. 

Suet and Milk. 

Put a tablespoonful of shredded beef suet into half a pint of 
fresh milk, warm it sufficiently to completely melt the suet ; then 
skim it, pour it into a warm glass or cup, and drink it before it 
cools. 

Milk, with Eum, Brandt, or WmsKT. 

Put one tablespoonful of rum, brandy, or whisky into half a pint 
of new milk, and mix well by pouring several times from one vessel 
to another. Bilious persons should heat the rum in a spoon over 
a lamp before adding it to the milk. 

Egg Wine. 

Beat up well the yolk of an egg in a tumbler with a wineglass- 
f ul of cold water, and the same quantity of sherry. Add sifted 
sugar to taste, and drink while frothy. 

DEINKS FOE THE SICK AND INVALID. 

Toast and Water. 

Take a slice of stale bread cut rather thick ; toast it thoroughly 
on both sides till it is quite hard and brown, but don't blacken it. 
Then put it into a jug, pour boiling water over it, and let it stand 
till cold. 

Barley Water; 

Take two ounces of pearl barley ; wash it well, and then boil it 
for fifteen or twenty minutes in a pint of cold water. Pour this 
oS, and then add to the barley two quarts of boiling water, the 



TO A MANUAL OP DIET, 71 

thinly-pared rind of a lemon, and sugar to the taste. BoU till 
reduced one-half, and then strain it into a jug. 

A little lemon juice may be used also, or instead of the peel if 
preferred. 

Gbuel. 

This is best made from Kobinson's prepared groats. Directions 
for making it accompany each packet. 

White Wine Whey. 

Put half a pint of new milk in a saucepan on the fire, and bring 
it to a bolL As soon as it boils up, pour in a glass of sherry, or 
more if required-enough to turn the milk entirely, and make it 
look clear. Let it boil up again, and then set the saucepan aside 
till the curd subsides, but do not stir it, In a short time the whey 
may be poured gently off, a little sifted sugar added, audit is fit to 
drink. 

If too strong, a little boiling water may be added. 

Feyeb Dbink. 

Put a large dessertspoonful of black currant jelly or preserved 
tamarinds into a tumbler, and fill it up with boiling water. When 
cold it is fit to drink. If too sweet, add a little more water. . 

Clabet Cup. 

Half a tumbler of good claret, mixed with the same quantity of 
soda water, makes a delicious, cool, summer drink. It can be 
sweetened or fiavoured according to taste. 

Tea OB Coffee with Ego. 

Beat up a fresh egg well in a breakfast cup till it is quite frothy. 
Then fill up the cup with either tea or coffee, adding milk and 
sugar to your taste. 

To a delicate person there is much more support given in a cup 
of tea or coffee made in this way than if taken plain. 



72 APPENDIX OF FOBMULiE TO A liAKUAL OF DIBT, 

Cbeam of Tabtab. 

(A cooUng drink.) 

Fat half an ounce of cream of tartar, the joice of one lemon, and 
one tablespoonful of sifted sugar into a jug, and pour over a quart 
of boiling water. Cover till cold. 

Apple, currant, raspberry, and tamarind water is made hj 
pouring boiling water over the pulp of the fruit, letting it 
stand for about half an hour, and then straining and sweetening 
to taste. 

TiLTTLE. 

This is an agreeable drink, and is made by pouring a pint of cold 
water on a handful of the dried flowers of the lime, and allowing it 
to stand for a few hours. 

To MAKE Coffee. 

Take of pure ground coffee two ounces, put it in a percolator 
and slightly moisten it with cold water ; let it stand all night, and 
then pour over it a pint of boiling water. Let it percolate in 
the oven or some hot place, and when twelve ounces have passed 
through add to it the same quantity of boiling milk ; it is ^en 
ready for use. 

Cocoa. 

Take of cocoa nibs two ounces, water one quart : boil for five 
hours, then let it stand till cold and skim off the fat. Boil up 
the cocoa again, and add to it half its bulk of boiling milk. The 
quantity ought not to exceed two breakfast cupf uls. 

Fbeezing Mixtukb. 

Muriate of Ammonia (Sal ammoniac) ... ... 5 parts. 

Nitrate of Potash (Saltpetre) ... 5 „ 

water ..• ... •.. ... •«. ..• xo ,, 

This mixture is exceedingly useful, to cool water or wine during 

h0t vreather, when intense cold is required for a patient's head, or 

to stop bleeding. 



