Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 





1 


9 

OK 




DIET . 


OD 

IN 


REGIMES 


HEALTH 


AND 


DISEASE. 


DR. 


DOBELL. 





ON 



DIET AND KEGIMEN 



IN 



SICKNESS AND HEALTH 



AND 



ON THE INTERDEPENDENCE AND PBEVBNTION OF DISEASES 
AND THE DIMINUTION OP THEIE FATALITY. 



BT 



HORACE DOBELL, M.D. 

SENroR PHYSICIAN TO THE ROYAL HOSPITAL POR DI8BASBS OP THE CHEST ; 
PHYSICIAN TO THE ROYAL ALBERT ORPHAN ASYLUM, ETC., ETC. 



(Fotu/ik edition, rewritten and modi enda/rg' 




LONDON: 
H. K. LEWIS, 136 GOWBR STREET, W.O. 

1870. 



LONDON: FEINTED BT A. K. LfTWlS. 



» 



PREFACE. 



My '^ Manual of Diet and Eegimen^^ which appeared in 
1864 having run through two editions in its first year, I 
published a third and revised edition in January, 1865. 
This has long been out of print and, as the demand for 
the Manual did not decrease, I have been repeatedly 
urged to prepare a fourth edition. After many delays,, 
from the interruption of other professional work, I have, 
at last, rewritten the book, adding much new matter and 
incorporating several contributions which I have published 
from time to time on subjects relating to the preserva- 
tion of health. I hope it will be found that I have thua 
materially increased the usefulness of the work without add- 
ing inconveniently to its length. My object and endeavour 
has been to produce a small book founded upon accurate 
scientific data but essentially practical: a book from 
which a doctor may refresh his memory, and at the same^ 
time one which he may safely place in the hands of his. 
patients, to enlighten them on some of those important 
points which ought to be understood by the non-profes- 
sional, and to teach them how vast and intricate is the 
science and art of rational medicine. Thus, to make 
them more intelligent patients, and in so doing to remove 



IV PREFACE. 

some of the doctor^s difficulties in healing them when they 
are sick, and when they are well, to strengthen his hands 
in the preservation of their health. 

It gives me great pleasure to be able to renew the 
thanks I expressed in 1864 to my friend Mr. Farrants, at 
that time President of the Microscopical Society, for the 
valuable assistance I have so frequently received from his 
remarkable analytical and arithmetical talents. 

84 Habley Strbbt. 
May, 1870. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER I. 

PAQB. 

The Interdependence of Diseases — ^Narrow Specialities and 
Broad Departments in the Science of Medicine — ^Normal 
Diet— Errors in Diet — The Diet of Disease — Food, 
Heat» and Motion — Getting fat and getting thin — 
Alcohol, its proper place in Diet — Begimen — The re- 
gulation of Habits — Importance of Sleep— Proper hours 
for Meals — Disinfection — ^Pseudo-medical Dogmas, and 
national Medicine ....... t 

CHAPTER II. 

Eiules for Promoting and Maintaining Vigorous Health in 
Adults living in the Climate of the United Kingdom — 
Ventilation and Heating — Clothing and Protection from 
Cold — Sleep — ^London Noise and London Sleep — Ex- 
ercise — ^Posture — ^Bathing — Regulation of the Bowels 
Rest and Change — Meals — Proper Hours for Meals . 1^ 

CHAPTER III. 

Food, Heat, and Motion — ^A foot-pound, a foot- ton, a British 
unit of heat — Mechanical Equivalent of a British unit of 
Heat — Combustion of Carbon, Consumption of Oxygen, 
Evolution of Heat — ^Mode in which the Heat Evolved 
from Food is disposed of — Composition of some of the 
Principal Articles of Food and their Heat Equivalents . 48 



VI CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER IV. 



PAGE 



Essentials of a Normal Diet — ^Mode of Constructing Diets 
— Expensive Diets and Cheap Diets for maintaining 
Health — ^Tables and Analyses — Effects of neglecting 
even one of the Essentials of a Normal Diet . . .52 

CHAPTER V. 

Fermented Liquors. — Acid and Sugar in Spirituous 
Liquors — Absolute Alcohol and Proof Spirit — Alcohol 
table showing the Analysis of Spirituous Liquors — 
Effects of Alcohol in Disease 63 

CHAPTER VI. 

Fat essential to Healthy Nutrition — Importance of dis- 
tinguishing between Solid and Liquid Fat — Bantingism 
— Getting Fat and getting Thin — Analysis of Banting- 
diet, showing its Errors and Advantages . . .70 

CHAPTER Vn. 

On the Diet of Sickness — Principles upon which to arrange 
the Diet of Disease — Rules for carrying out these Prin- 
ciples — Examples of Diets for Consumption, and for 
Diabetes 7& 



CHAPTER VIII. 

The Duties of Medical Men — The Interdependence of 
Diseases shewing the importance of Periodical Examina- 
tions — Anaemia and Fatty Degeneration as Vestiges of 
Disease — Abnornal Physiological States — Conditions not 

. recognised as Disease but which certainly are not health 91 



CONTENTS. Vll 

CHAPTER IX. 



PAGE 



Disinfection — Media by which the Catching Diseases are 
Communicated — Means for Preventing Infection and 
Contagion — ^Directions for the Sick Room and Attend- 
ants — Precautions to be used by Doctors — Mode of 
Cleansing Apartments after Illness — Proper Methods of 
using Chloride of Lime, Carbolic Acid and Condy's 
Fluid 134 

Special Recipes, Directions, and Appliances for the Sick- 
room — I. Farinaceous articles — 2. Beef tea — 3. Leibig's 
Extract of meat— 4. White of Egg, Eggs — 5. Whey — 
6. Animal foods — 7. Bread — 8. Special Restorative 
— 9. Invalid Soup — 10. Combinations of alimentary 
principles in nearly exact normal proportions — 11. Port 
Wine Jelly— 12. Suet and Milk— 13. Milk with Rum, 
Brandy, or Whiskey — 14. Ardent Spirits and their pe- 
culiarities — 15, Nutritive Bnemata — 16. Poultices — 
17. Fluids for Inhalations— 18. Warm Baths— 19. The 
Lights in a Sick-room — 20. A Nursing Schedule . . 140 



ON 

DIET, REGIMEN, 

&C. &C. 



CHAPTER I. 

'T]he Interdependence op Diseases — Narrow Specialities 
AND Broad Departments in the Practice op Medicine — 
Normal Diet — Errors in Diet — ^The Diet op Disease 
— Food, Heat, and Motion — Getting pat and getting 
THIN — Alcohol, its proper place in Diet — Regimen — 
The regulation op habits — Importance op sleep — Pro- 
per HOURS POR meals DISINFECTION — ^PSEUDO-MEDICAL 

Dogmas, and rational Medicine. 

In the practice of Rational Medicine, there are many 
subjects upon which the wise Physician is always glad to 
find that his patient has some knowledge as well as him- 
self. Among these I know of none more important than 
the interdependance *of Diseases and the principles of 
Diet and Regimen. 

There are few medical questions which so test the depth 
and extent of a doctor^s acquirements as the interdepen- 
dence OP diseases — ^by which I mean, the way in which 
one disease leads to another, substitutes another^ ^gg^^^- 
vates, or reUeves another ; the way in which disease appear- 
ing at one part of the body, depends upon the derange- 

B 



2 ON DIET, BEGIMBN, ETC. 

ment of another part, perhaps distantly separated ; the 
way in which disease of one kind in an ancestor, leads to 
disease of several different kinds in the descendants ; the 
way in which one general morbid cause may produce 
different effects upon different persons, according to the 
conditions of health in which they happen to be at the time ; 
and numberless other similar phenomena. 

These are matters of the highest importance in the right 
management and treatment of disease, yet they are so ht- 
tle understood that the pains taken by a conscientious 
doctor in their investigation are not appreciated by 
the majority of persons. Thus it is that patients so often 
fail to discriminate between the wisdom of the man 
who will not prescribe for a part of the body until he 
has learnt the condition of the whole, and the ad cap- 
tandum ignorance of another man who will prescribe 
unhesitatingly for a disorder of the whole body without 
previously ascertaining whether it depends upon disease 
of a part. 

The chief objection to specialities in medical practice is 
the danger, that the doctor who treats but one part of the 
body may lose sight of the interdependence of diseases. 
This must always be a grave objection to very narrow 
specialities, but it does not apply to the broad division of 
the practice of medicine into Departments — that is to say, 
such a reasonable application of the principles of the ^^ divi- 
sion of labour'' as shall enable each practitioner, not only 
to completely master the department of Medicine which 
he selects for special study, but to advance the general 
knowledge of the profession by his investigations and 
experience. 

For example, diseases of the ear are often dependent 
upon, or are connected with, diseases of other parts of the 
body; and the doctor who confines his practice to diseases 



ON DIET, BEGIMEN, KTC. 3 

•of tte ear may be in danger of losing sight of the broad 
facts of medicine, and in attempting to cure the ear may 
damage the body ; but by extending his practice to all the 
organs of special sense, which might fairly form a depart^ 
tnent of Medicine, he would be obUged to take in a range 
of observation and thought which would enforce a know- 
ledge of the interdependence of diseases. 

Again — Diseases of the heart and arteries are intimately 
connected with those of the lungs and throat, diseases of 
the lungs with those of the heart, arteries and windpipe, 
diseases of the brain with those of the lungs, heart and 
arteries, and all of these are often inseparably connected, 
in the relation of cause or effect, with affections of the sto- 
mach, liver, pancreas, kidneys, intestinal glands, ote. etc. 
For a doctor, therefore, to limit his practice to diseases 
>of the heart, to diseases of the throat, to diseases of the 
lungs, or to diseases of the windpipe, is to constitute a 
speciality so narrow that he is in danger of losing sight 
of the great principles of medicine. If, on the other hand, 
he selects for special study and practice such a broad 
department as Diseases of the Chest — that is to say, of all 
the respiratory and circulatory organs, and the associated, 
processes of digestion and assimilation — ^he will be obliged 
to take in a range of observation and thought neces- 
sitating a constant remembrance of the interdependence 
of diseases, and he will be competent to deal with' all 
•classes of disease as well as those peculiar to his own de- 
partment. I have instanced Diseases of the Chest 
because it is one of the most important " lines" of practice, 
and the one with which I am most intimately associated, 
but the same remai'ks apply to Obstetrics, to Fevers, to the 
Diseases of Children, and to other large divisions of medi- 
icine. Thus departments of medical practice may be wisely 
;eeleGted by different medical men for special study — but 

b4 



-4 ON DIET, REGIMEN, ETC. 

narrow spea'aliHes are dangerous and objectionable, unless 
those who confine themselves to them are content to act 
simply as the assistants of the more general physicians 
and surgeons, which is not likely to be the case. For 
those who may be interested to pm*sue this subject further 
I have introduced some extracts from my " Lectures on 
the germs and vestiges of disease."'^ (See Index.) 

Diet is so little understood that, very often, those are the 
■best off who abstain from all attempts to meddle with it 
and are content to follow the dictates of their instinct. 
'This, of course, ought not to be the case, for diet, properly 
understood, may be made a powerful agent in the restora- 
tion and maintenance of health ; and errors of diet are 
at all times capable of becoming serious causes of disease. 

But unfortunately, interference with diet, like all good 
things, is particularly open to abuse, for nothing is 
easier than to lay down a complicated code of restrictions 
and rules as to " what to eat and what to drink" and the 
patient is very apt to think that the skill of the doctor 
increases with the number and variety of his orders. But 
those who understand the principles of diet know that 
the reverse is much nearer to the truth, and that learning 
and skill in dieting a patient, are shown by the wisdom 
with which the doctor, instead of meddling with unimpor- 
tant details, seizes upon the few essential points on which 
the vice or virtue of a diet will generally be found to turn. 
Thus, in a case of diabetes, tlie ignorant intermeddler may 
order fifty restrictions without doing his patient the 
slightest good; whereas, the doctor who understands 
the nature of the disease and the principles of diet, will 
speedily relieve his sufferings by telling him to take what- 
ever he likes, so long as he touches nothing which con- 
tains starch or sugar. Thus, again, I have often seen pa- 
tients suffering from acid dyspepsia who have been ordered 



ON DIET, RLGIMBN, ETC. O 

and forbidden so many diflFerent articles of food that their 
hves were rendered miserable, without the sUghtest relief 
to their complaint, whereas, by forbidding them to take 
cheese and malt liquor, the chief factors of their malady, 
and allowing them to eat and drink whatever else they 
pleased, their sufferings have been speedily removed and 
their lives made enjoyable. 

It is absolutely necessary that he who ventures to inter- 
fere with a person's diet should first understand the princi- 
ples upon which the food of health is regulated in nature ; 
and nothing assists the intelKgent doctor more in getting 
his orders carried out, than for his patient, as well as him- 
self, to be acquainted with this subject. Ignorance and 
stupidity are the constant obstacles in the proper regulation 
of these mitters. To elucidate this part of the subject I have 
drawn up a brief statement of the " Essentials of a normal 
diet" This is illustrated by a set of tables, showing the 
method by which diets may be arranged so that they shall 
equally well support the human body in a state of normal 
health and strength, whether they consist of a complicated 
list of expensive articles, or, of no more than Bread, Cheese, 
Butter, Cresses and Water. (See Index.) 

The advances of science have, of late, thrown most 
important light upon the connection between food and 
force, a subject of the greatest interest to all, whether 
medical or not ; for, as we all take food and all desire to 
be strong, we are unavoidably fascinated by the enquiry 
what kind of food will give us the greatest amount of 
strength. I have not hesitated, therefore, to introduce a 
short paper on this subject which some may think rather 
dry. (See Index : "Food, Heat and Motion.^') 

The question of getting fat or thin, whether in health 
or disease, is one inseparable from the subject of "food and 
force," for we have discovered that heat is but a mode of 



6 OS DIET, KEQIMEN, ETC. 

motion,* and that those elements of food capable of libe- 
rating the largest amount of heat, may be utilized as accu- 
mulators of fat by economising the motion and heat of the 
body, and vice versa. Under this head I have introduced 
a table, shewing the composition of some of the most 
important articles of food, and the amount of heat to be 
got out of equal quantities of each, and I hare also given 
directions how to estimate the amount of mechanical force 
equivalent to a given quantity of heat. (See Index). In 
order to elucidate the importance of fat, and the subject 
of getting fat or losing fat by alterations of diet, I have 
printed a portion of my letter on " Bantingism^^, written 
some time ago, and an article on the importance- of 
distinguishing between solid and liquid fat. (See Index). 

Prom what I have already said, and from the articles 
referred to, it must be clear that nothing can take 
precedence of proper food among the means for the 
preservation of the public health ; and when health is lost, 
whether by unavoidable disease or by other causes, nothing 
can be more important than to understand the leading 
principles which should guide us in altering the food to 
meet the conditions of disease, and thus to convert diet 
into a powerful instrument for the restoration of health. 
This is a subject which could not be fully discussed in a 
small work like the present, but I have given a short 
lecture '^ On some Principles of Diet in Disease,^^ which I 
delivered at the Eoyal Hospital for Diseases of the 
Chest, in 1865. 

The subject of A^lcohol which has of late years occupied so 
much attention, both in the scientific and in the religious 
world, and which has been so grievously misrepresented and 
misunderstood, is now placed upon a more reasonable foot- 

• See Prof. T^ndairs Lectures ; " ffeat a Mode of Motion:' 



ON DIBT^ BIGIMEN^ ETC. 7 

ing^ some plain facts having been unquestionably established 
by the dispassionate investigations of practical and scienti- 
fic men. In this country we are particularly indebted to 
Dr. Anstie for his investigations on this subject ; I have 
therefore introduced a leading article on alcohol, from the 
Lancet, which is, I believe, from his pen. (See Index.) 

It is now quite certain, as I have long maintained, that 
alcohol is food — that is to say, that it is consumed in the 
body by a process of oxidation similar to that which other 
kinds of food undergo, that during its combustion force is 
liberated, and the demand for other kinds of food dim- 
inished. Alcohol, therefore, is able to save the combustion 
of the elements of tissue formation, by vicarious oxidation 
of itself. 

It is quite certain that alcohol is one of the most readily 
oxidisable substances capable of being introduced into the 
animal organism. In this consists its chief value and its 
chief danger ; for, on the one hand, it is able to replenish 
the lamp of life with so little tax upon the digestive func- 
tions and with so little loss of time, that nothing can take 
its place when these are the desiderata of most urgent import. 
But, on the other hand, this extraordinary facility for 
oxidation makes the presence of alcohol in the system a 
most dangerous impediment to the combustion of those 
less readily oxidisable matters, the full and regular com- 
bustion of which is absolutely essential to the continuance 
of normal health. 

It is quite certain that alcohol is not an indispensable 
article of daily food ; a normal diet may be perfectly well 
constructed without it, and a healthy person, under favoura- 
ble circumstances, can live without it, just in fact, as the 
lower animals do. But it is also quite certain that alcohol is 
a most blessed gift of Providence, when rightly understood 
and wisely used. It is the endowment of man with those 



8 0» DIET, RBaiMEN, BfC- 

higher attributes which principally distinguish him frowf 
the brutes, that constitutes the element in his nature which* 
hias made it necessary to his welfare that Providence 
should give him this peculiar article of food in addition' 
to all those [daced within the reach of the less intellectual- 
animals. 

Thus is it af fact, that while man is brutalized by the 
aimse of alcohol, its proper use is one of his distinctions^ 
from the brutes; 

Alcohol may perhaps be best described as a Medicinal 
Food. It is essentially a poison, although in its proper use it 
is an indispensable element in the Kfe and happiness of 
highly civilized society. But it ought always to be regarded 
as a most treacherous friend. 

I have drawn up an ^^ alcohol table,^^ (see Index), the 
result of many careftil analyses of each article so as to 
present a fair average result, from which it can be seen, at 
a glance, what quantity by measuHs of each of the ordi- 
nary fermented liquors represents one ounce by weight of 
absolute alcohol. The table includes a statement of tho 
proportion of carbon and of some other matters, contained 
in fermented liquors, besides the alcohol; and it must 
always be remembered that diBFerent kinds of fermented 
Hquors represent many other influences for good or evil, 
in a dietetic point of view, in addition to those possessed 
by the alcohol, all of which require consideration in 
selecting the particular beverage suitable to any given 
ease. 

It will be observed that I have omitted alcohol from 
all of the Tables of Normal Diet, leaving it to be added in any 
form and quantity which circumstances may render most 
advisable. According to my own experience, based upon 
long and careful observation, an average-siz€fd adult man 
taking moderate exercise may drink with advantage enough 



ON DIET, EEGIMEIT, ETC. 9' 

fermentexi liquors, each 24 hours, to represent from one to^ 
two ounces avoirdupois of absolute alcohol — provided it be 
always diluted to the extent of 10 fluid ounces (halfa- 
pint imperial) of water or some other unfermented liquor 
to each ounce avoirdupois of absolute alcohol, and that it 
be taken when there is food in the stomach. (See Index). 

Eegimbn. The regulation of habifcs could not be fully 
discussed without involving physiological, and other de- 
tails which would have far over-run the limits of this- 
book. — I have, therefore, contented mysetf with laying 
down, as concisely as possible, such rules as my own 
experience, added to that of others, has taught me are- 
most necessary and most suitable to the generality of 
persons. They must, of course, be modified to suit pecu- 
liar constitutions, idiosyncrasies, and other circumstances, 
and to meet the various conditions of disease. In connec- 
tion with these Bules for Begimen, I have introduced a 
letter *^ on the Proper Hours for Meals.^^ (See Index), 
and an important leading article from the Times of 
August 17th, 1869, suggested by a letter of mine on 
'^ London Noise and London Sleep,^^ which had appeared 
on the 13th. (See Index). On the subject of exer- 
cise and training, in addition to the rules I have laid 
down, I advise everyone, medical or not, to read "A 
system of Physical education,^^ an admirable treatise- 
issued from the Clarendon Press in 1869, by Archibald 
Maclaren, of the Gymnasium, Oxford. 

As a necessary part of a work like the present, having^ 
for its object the preservation of health, I have added a 
chapter on Disinfection, with rules for preventing the 
spread of the "Catching Diseases.'^ And at the end of tho 
book will be found a few special directions for the sick 

ROOM. 

In concluding this introductory chapter I must not 



10 OH DIET, BEGIMBN, ETC. 

lose the opportunity of expressing my opinion upon a 
matter regarding which there is great misapprehension, 
and, I regret to say, intentional misrepresentation. I 
refer to the subject of psEUDO-MEDiCAii-DOGMAS, such as are 
involved in the terms Allopathy, Hydropathy, Homoeo- 
pathy, Kinesipathy, &c., and in such expressions as '^ a 
stimulating system,'^ ^^a depleting system,^^ ^^similia 
similibus, curantur,^' "contraria contraribus curantur,^^ and 
the like. 

I disclaim them all, and I feel sure that in this state- 
ment I express the sentiment of the majority of thinking 
medical men. It is utterly unworthy of the professor of 
a science and art so great as medicine, to " pin himself' 
to such narrow dogmas and rules of thought and practice 
as are indicated by one and all of these expressions. 

The practice of rational medicine — ^having for its subject, 
not only that most complex and wonderful fabric the 
animal organism, but that organism endowed with all 
those attributes which place man but " a little lower than 
the angels'' — demands that there shall not be anything 
excluded from its service, and that every science and every 
art shall combine, at its bidding, to assuage the suffering 
and to save the life of Nature's highest earthly creature. 

Every honest and intelligent practitioner of rational med- 
icine knows, that there are remedies of unquestionable potency 
the action of which could never have been discovered by 
any such dogmas as ^^ contraria contraribus curantur" or 
^'similia similibus curantur." On the other hand, he knows 
that there are remedies the action of which may appear 
to be explained by one or other of these principles, but 
that the more intimately we become acquainted with the 
occult properties of medicines and the occult physiology 
of diseases, the more plainly do we see that these appa- 
rent explanations of the modus operandi of remedies are ab- 



ON DIET^ BEGIMEN^ ETC. II 

Burdly superficial and incorrect. He will not, then, refuse to 
benefit his patient by the use of the one remedy because 
he cannot explain its action, or of the other because it 
appears to act by similarity, or of a third because he thinks 
it acts by contrariety. Again, he knows that the same 
disease may assume such difierent phases, in different con- 
stitutions, at different times and in different places, that in 
one case it may require *^ stimulation," in another "deple- 
tion," that at one period of the same case, "water treatment" 
may be advisable, at another "gymnastic," at another 
"mechanical," at another "climatic." And he claims these, 
and all other means beneficently placed within our reach 
which can protect health or benefit the sick, as the legiti- 
mate weapons in the armoury of rational medicine. 

Every theory, every system, every dogma, must give 
place, at last, before the fact, once unquestionably 'proved^ 
that such or such a remedy is best for such or such an 
occasion. 

Therefore, in my opinion, all men who " pin their faith" 
on narrow dogmas, stamp themselves thereby as unfit for 
the practice of rational medicine. 



CHAPTER II. 

Rules for Promoting and Maintaining Vigorous Health 
IN Adults living in the Climate op the United 
Kingdom — ^Ventilation and Heating — Clothing and 
Protection prom Cold — Sleep — London Noise and 
London Sleep — Exercise — Posture — ^Bathing— Regu- 
lation OP THE Bowels — Rest and Change — ^Meals — 
Proper Hours por Meals. 

*«* These Rules will require to be modified by the medical man to 
suit special cases. 



VENTILATION AND HEATING. 

L No sitting or sleeping room should be left long with- 
out a fire, and every room in which persons live, either by- 
day or by night, should have some opening by which it 
communicates directly with the outer air ; but this should 
be so arranged that no draught can fall upon the persons 
in the room. 

2. If several rooms are occupied by turns during the 
twenty- four hours, the temperature of any one should not 
differ greatly from that of the rest. 

3. No draught should blow upon a bed, and during 
sleep the whole body should have one covering at least of 
woollea m iterial ; for, while it is very important to keep 



VENTILATION AND HEATING. 13 

the air of sleeping rooms fresh, it must be remembered 
that the body is more susceptible to chills during sleep 
than waking, and that changes in the temperature of the 
outer air are especially apt to occur during the night, and 
are, therefore, in danger of producing chills before they 
are observed. (See Sleep.) 

4. All arrangements for ventilation must be based upon 
the following facts : — 

The rate of respiration in an average sized adult man 
is about 1 6 times per minute, and each such respiration 
vitiates about 1 cubic foot of normal atmospheric air ; so 
that each adult man vitiates 960 cubic feet of air per hour, 
and consequently will require a supply of fresh air at that 
rate ; or in round numbers 1000 cubic feet per hour. 

This supply of fresh air can be provided by observing 
the following conditions :— 

A current of air travelling at the rate of 36 linear inches 
per second is not perceptible as a draught, and at that 
rate of movement 1 J cubic feet per minute or 75 per hour 
will be admitted by an aperture of 1 square inch sectional 
area, communicating directly with the outer air. 

If, therefore, an apartment is provided with an aperture 
having a ratio of 1 square inch sectional area to each 75 
feet of cubic capacity, the whole air of the apartment will 
be changed once per hour. 

Supposing, then, that the cubic capacity of an apart- 
ment is in the proportion of 1000 feet to each person in it, 
the requisite supply of fresh air may be obtained, without 
draught, through an aperture of from 13 to 14 square 
inches sectional area to each 1000 feet of cubic capacity. 
But if the cubic capacity of the apartment is only in the 
proportion of 500 feet for each person in it, the air must 
be changed twice per hour in order to supply the requisite 
1000 cubic feet of fresh air for each person. 



14 CLOTHING. 

When gas is burnt in an apartment the following facts 
must be borne in mind, in addition to the foregoing, for 
the purposes of ventilation : — 

One cubic foot of ordinary London coal gas produces, in 
burning, 2-thirds of a cubic foot of carbonic acid, about 
the amount produced per hour by the respiration of one 
adult man, — and as an ordinary fish-tail gas-burner con- 
sumes about 3 cubic feet of gas per hour, it produces 
in that time as much carbonic acid as the respiration of 
three adults. 



CLOTHINa, 

5. In winter, the body and limbs, from the root of the 
neck to the toes and elbows, should be covered, next the 
skin, with some woollen material, such as lamVs wool or 
flannel. 

6. In summ-er, the material may be lighter, as merino, 
and need not cover the limbs* 

7. The same woollen dress should not be worn both 
night and day, but should be changed for a woollen sleep- 
ing vest of the same material as that worn during the day. 
(See Sleep). 

8. Having provided that the skin is so covered that it is 
protected against sudden changes of temperature, all other 
clothing should be limited to that which is sufficient to 
preserve a comfortable feeling of warmth under the difier- 
©nt changes of the season and of the weather. 

9. Over-clothing, i.e.j such as keeps the body perspiring 



CLOTHING. 1 5 

while at rest or produces perspiration under very slight 
exertion, should be avoided, especially over- clothing of 
, any one part of the body by which it is kept hotter than 
the other parts. 

10. It is of the greatest importance to keep the feet dry 
and as warm as the rest of the body. If the weather is 
damp, this can only be done by wearing goloshes when out 
of doors. (See Bathing). 

This subject may be further elucidated by the following 
extract from the Author^ s Lectures on Wintbb Cough. 
Cataebh, Bronchitis, Emphysema, Asthma, delivered at 
the Royal Hospital for Diseases of the Chest in 1865. 

Fresh colds were the only causes which brought on or ag- 
gravated the cough in 72 per cent of the cases, and the 
most freqaent and potent causes of these fresh colds, as 
stated by the patients themselves, were : — 

1. Sudden changes of temperature in 21 per cent. 

2. Fogs and damp air in 19 per cent. 

3. Draughts of cold air in 16 per cent. 

4. Cold winds in 10 per cent. 

5. Getting wet in 14 per cent. 

6. Wet feet in 17 per cent. And we find the same 
list of causes of fresh colds recurring as the potent 
provokers of short breathing. This important list is no 
less striking for the power for evil which it is shown to 
possess, than for the remarkable simplicity of the evil 
powers themselves. 

If, then, these unfortunate suflFerers from Winter Cough 
could have been protected from sudden changes of tem- 
perature, fogs, mists, cold winds, draughts, wet feet, and 
wet coats and dresses, 72 per cent would have kept free 
from their coughs. It would seem strange if we could not 
find means of protection against such common-place influ- 
ences. In truth, there is no deficiency of means of protec- 



16 tJLOTHrNG. 

tion against them, and it is because of tlie very common- 
place character of these means of protection and of the 
influences themselves that both are so much neglected and 
under-valued. 

But 72 per cent of the cases of Winter Cough which I 
liave analysed might probably have been prevented by at- 
tention to these common -place things. Let us then give 
a few minutes to their consideration. 

1. Sudden changes of temperature. This is the most 
difficult to avoid of any on the list. The occupations and 
-amusements of all classes involve such changes, and we 
cannot stop these occupations and amusements, even were 
it desirable «to do so. The workshop, the counting house, 
the committee-room, the opera-house, the ball-room, must 
be warm when the outer air is cold, and changes from one 
to the other cannot be avoided. But very much could be 
done to prevent the body from feeling these changes. 
The first and most important is the complete envelopment 
'Of the body and limbs in wool next the skin, thus inter- 
posing a bad conductor of heat between the surface of the 
^body and the outer air. It is surprising that even at the 
present day this simple and common-sense protection is 
(neglected by so large a number of persons both of the 
educated and of the uneducated classes. It is not suffici- 
ent for the purpose in view that a little body-vest should 
be worn just big enough to cover the thorax and abdomen, 
leaving the extremities unprotected. It should be insisted 
-on by medical men that the arms and legs require to be 
protected from sudden transitions of temperature as weU 
as the trunk. 

In fashionable life the greatest practical difficulty we 
^ave to encounter is the question of exposing the necks 
cand shoulders of ladies in evening dress. It is useless to 
•order body-clothing of wool to the throat, and to expect 



CLOTHING, 17 

that ladies will give up a fashion which has been followed 
and thought charming in all countries and all ages. The 
difficulty is, however, to be got over pretty well. Every 
lady in evening dress should carry with her, as invariably as 
she does her pocket handkerchief, a Shetland shawl or a man- 
tilla of wool or fur, of a size and shape to cover all those 
parts not protected by woollen underclothing, and it 
should only be removed while actually within warm rooma 
and should be kept at hand to replace on passing through 
passages, or if the rooms becK)me cold, or if sitting ixk 
draughts. 

The main source of protection, then, against suddeu 
changes of temperature to the surface of the body, is to be 
found in a complete covering of wool next the skin. But 
besides this, much greater attention, than is common, 
should be paid to putting on and taking off complete and 
efficient over-clothing when going from hot to cold aud from 
cold to hot temperatures. This is particularly neglected 
by the working classes and by girls and boys at school, 

What I have said with regard to sudden changes of 

temperature will apply equally to two other causes of fresh 
colds on our Ust, viz., draughts of cold air, and cold 
winds. Both are to be deprived of their sting by proper 
clothing of the skin and mucous orifices — of the latter I 
shall speak again. 

Getting wet, and wet feet occupy a very serious 
place in our list, and there is no doubt that damp cmd cold 
applied to the general surface is a most efficient means 
of producing chill and vital depression, with congestion 
of the internal organs. It is necessary that cold be com* 
bined with moisture to produce this effect. 

Even if all the clothes on the body are wet, no barm 
will come so long as 'they are kept warm, and this sug* 
gests the very great value, to all persons liable to expos* 

c 



18 CLOTHING. 

nre to wet, of light waterproof over-alls. They may either 
be put on to keep the underclothing dry, or, if the under- 
clothing has become wet, either by weather or by perspir- 
ation, they may be put on to prevent too rapid evapora- 
tion and consequent reduction of temperature, especially 
when the person is about to remain still affcer getting 
warm with exercise. In this variable climate, therefore, 
school girls, governesses, shop and factory girls, and aU 
women whose occupations call upon them to brave the 
weather, ought to carry with them complete water-proof 
mantles made as light as possible, but extending from the 
neck to the ankles, which can be put on or not as required ; 
and boys and men similarly exposed should carry water- 
proof over-alls. But if wet and cold to the surface of 
the body is a fruitful source of catarrh, wet feet — which 
means wet and cold feet — ^is a still more prolific source. 
There is no external influence which so surely produces 
congestion of the naso-pulmonary mucous membrane, as 
wet and cold to the soles of the feet. There is nothing 
so universally neglected, and yet there is nothing more 
easy to avoid. Warm socks, horsehair soles, goloshes, 
provide effident protection against wet and cold feet. It 
does not seem to be half understood that, although a shoe 
or boot may not be wet through, if the sole is damp it 
will, by conduction and evaporation, most efiectually carry 
away the heat from the sole of the foot, and, therefore, 

ought never to be worn after exercise is over 

We have still one item left on our list — viz.. Fogs and 
Damp air, which were the things most inclined to make 
the breath short in 24 per cent of the cases, and the most 
potent causes of fresh colds in 19 per cent. I have parti- 
cularly remarked, that although the smoke and other 
irritating matters constituting fog are unquestionably very 
injurious, it is the moisture and cold of the fog which are 



DUST AND DISEASE. 19 

the qualities most potent for mischief to the naso-pnlmona- 
ry tract. There is but one means of depriving a fog or 
mist of its injurious properties, and that is a respirator ; 
and the same may be said of the changes of temperature 
of which I spoke just now ; a respirator is the only means 
of protecting the respiratory passages from the effects 
of transitions of temperature 

Although it is quite proper to cover the neck and throat 
lightly, I am decidedly of opinion that warm wrappers 
round the neck are objectionable ; they produce conges- 
tion of the nasal and faucial mucous membrane and thus 
dispose to the very complaints they are supposed to pre- 
vent^\ — p. 148 to p. 153 Lectures. 

I am glad to find the use of respirators, which I have so 
long advocated, recently demonstrated in one of Professor 
Tyndall's beautiful lectures, of which the following ab- 
stract appeared January 29th, 1870, in the British Medical 
Journal. 



"Dust and Disease, A Lecture delivered at the Royal 

Institution.^' 

" Professor Tyndall, in making some experiments on 
vapours, wished for a current of air quite free from the 
particles of dust always seen in a beam of sunUght. He 
tried various means for this purpose; one consisted in 
passing air through a tube filled with sulphuric acid; 
another, in passing the air through a tube filled with solu- 
tion of potash. In each case, particles, capable of refract- 
ing Ught, and rendering themselves visible, were still pre- 
sent. In October 1868 he hit on the plan of allowing the 
air to pass over the flame of a spirit-lamp. ' The floating 
matter no longer appeared, having been burnt up by the 
flame. It was, therefore, organic matter. If the air were 

c2 



20 trUBT AND DISflASE. 

•mat too Ta^dly ikrougli tlie flame^ a fine blue cloud was 
noticed. Tim was the smoke of the oi^ganic particle^/ 
Th^ Profefisor warn itiot prepared for the dtscovery that the 
dust of our air wss orgianic. Ho had always considered 
it inorgtunic ttkid i&on-combttstible» Mr. Valentin now 
ftiniished him idth a «nall gas ftimace "with a platinum 
tube^ which could be heated to redness. Air was passed 
tiafou^ tills tube when cold^ and then when hot. When 
oombastion was perfect^ no particles could be detected/' 

'^ Further experiments led to still moro interes^g re^ 
Bults. A beam of light was made to illumine the dust of 
tiie laiboratory^ omd the flame of a spirit-lamp allowed to 
play on it. Wreaths of darkness were at once seen to 
mingle with the fi&tse^ just like intensely black smoke. 
' When the flame was pkced below the beam of lights th& 
0anre dark masses steamed upwards*' They were at timeis 
blacker than lihe blackest smoke. A red-hot poker placed 
under the beam produced the same dark wreaths. A large 
hydrogen flame led to the same result. Smoke was there- 
fore out of the question. What, then, was the blackness ? 
Simply that of stellar space resulting &om the absence^ 
from the track of the beam, of all matter capable of scat- 
tering tts light.'' 

"lie Professor then remarked : " Nobody could, with- 
out repugnance in the first instance, place the mouth ftt 
^e illuminated focus of the electric beam and inhale the 
<3irt revealed there. Nor is the disgust abolii^ed by ikie 
reflection that, although we do tiot see the nastiness, we 
are churning it in our lungs every hour and minute of oiar 
lives.' The wonder is, that so small ti portion of this dirt 
diould appear to be really deadly to man. What is this 
portion ?" 

" The lecturer then alluded to the notion, at one iieae 
prevalent, iihat malarious diseases were due to organic 



DUST AND DISBASB. 21 

matter in a state of decay (fermentation). It was then 
shown that fermentation really depended on the growth 
of the yeast-plant. Further, Schwann, in 1837, showed 
that meat, in contact with air which had been heated, did 
not patrefy; and he affirmed that putrefaction was caused 
by something derived from the air^ which could be destroy- 
ed by high temperature. The germ-theory of epidemic 
disease soon followed^ and found an energetic supports 
in Sir Henry Holland, the present President of the Insti- 
tution. The spread of cholera and that of small-pox were 
adduced as instances in support of the germ-theory.'' 

" Professor Tyndall alluded to the difficulty that must he 
experienced in freeing surgical instruments (a canula, for 
instance) from the means of carrying contagion, in the 
presence of an atmosphere such as ours, unless a high tem- 
perature were employed, and this is not done. Thus, not- 
withstanding all the surgeon's care, inflammation often 
sets in after the use of such an instrument. When an 
abscess has bepn tapped, the pus, which was at first sweet, 
becomes foetid and swarms with vibrios. Professor Lister's 
views were quoted.^' 

"The Professor then went back to the dust. It 
could not be blown away with a pair of bellows ; but, if 
the muzzle of the bellows were stuffed with cotton-wool, 
it was found that the air which escaped was free from 
particles. Schroeder used cotton-wool as a filter in his 
experiments on spontaneous generation ; and subsequently 
it was used in those of Pasteur. Since 1868 Dr. Tyndall 
has used it himself.^' 

" The most interesting and important illustration of such 
a filtering process is furnished by the human breath. After 
inspiring a quantity of common air, a long expiration is 
made through a glass tube across the electric beam. At 
first the luminous track is uninterrupted. The breath im- 



22 SLEEP. 

presses on the floating matter a transverse motion, but the 
dust from the lungs makes good the particles displaced. 
After a time, however, an obscure disc appears upon the 
beam, and, at the end of expiration, the beam is, as it were, 
pierced by an intensely black hole, in which no particles 
whatever can be discerned. The air, in fact, has lodged 
its dirt in the lungs. A handful of cotton-wool placed 
over the nose and mouth during inspiration makes the 
dark hole in the beam of light appear from the beginning 
of expiration. A silk handkerchief answers nearly as well, 
but the filtration is not nearly so perfect as with cotton- 
wool.^' 

" In conclusion, the use of cotton-wool respirators to ex- 
clude the entrance of the germs of contagious diseases by 
means of respiration, was strongly advocated. ^ By means 
of the respirator, so far as the germs are concerned, the 
air of the highest Alps may be brought into the chamber 
of the invalid.' '' 



SLEEP. 

11. During ordinary health, the hours spent in actual 
sleep should not exceed eight ; and if the sleep is sound, 
continuous, and refreshing, six will be sufficient for many 
persons. (See Rest and Change). 

12. During sleep, it is equally important to keep the 
body pleasantly warm, and to avoid keeping it over-heated ; 
and, as serious changes in the weather may happen in the 
night, and the lowest temperature in the twenty-four hours 
naturally occurs between 2 o'clock and 6 o'clock a.m., the 



LONDON NOISB AND LONDON SLEEP. 23 

ventilation and clotliin^ mnst be prepared for these con- 
tingencies. (See Ventilation, and Clothing). 

13. If sleep is taken after meals, it should not exceed 
half an hour in duration ; it should be taken sitting back 
in an easy chair, with the head supported behind ; not 
lying down, and not sitting with the chin resting on the 
breast ; the feet should be kept warm, and the dress loose 
round the neck and waist. 

14. Every precaution should be taken to secure quiet 
sleeping-rooms. 



Letter by the Author on London Noise and London Sleep, 
published in the Times, August Idth, 1869. 

To THE Editor op the Times. 

Sir,— The London season is over once more, and every- 
one is hurrying to get a dash of sea water or of mountain 
air, before returning to London work. Brain-fag, nervous 
exhaustion, and worry are the universal complaints ; and 
vho can wonder at it ? For where and when in this great 
city, I should like to be told, can anyone secure six hours 
of undisturbed sleep ? 

If insanity increases, if doctors are more busy every 
year with diseases of the nervous system, if men and wo- 
men wear out faster and faster, who can wonder, if he 
mil take the trouble to consider, how utterly our munici- 
pal arrangements ignore the necessity for sleep ? 

It is time, indeed, that we turned our attention to this 
^tal question, upon which hangs not only the comfort and 
happiness of our best men and women of the day, but the 
actual value of their mental work, the continued sanity of 
tbeir minds, and the mental calibre of their progeny. I 
sm not the only member of my profession who has long 



24 LONDON NOISE AND LONDON SLEEP. 

desired to bring Hiis matter into public notice ; far other- 
wise. Your columns might easily be filled day by day 
with the sore experiences of medical men on this point. 
But I see the evil increasing year by year, and I cannot 
longer keep silent when I see "holiday tasks^^ set to 
thinking men, to rob them of the only chance they had 
left of recreation and rest. 

If some of us are to be doomed to spend the recess in di- 
gesting education Bills, and in speculations on the value of 
clipped sovereigns, at least let some others of us consider 
the value of a httle sleep. 

This is a very simple question, and the evil appears to 
be susceptible of a simple remedy. It is a question of 
police ; and attention being once prominently called to its 
importance there can be no excuse for its being longer 
neglected. The police should be made to keep our streets 
quiet during certain hours of the night. No attempt at 
this is made at present. The night policemen walk tacitly 
up and down, while every house in a street is being roused 
by the most abominable noises, without making the 
slightest attempt at checking them. It might not unfairlj 
be asked that people should have a chance of sleeping 
from 12 o'clock till 8 ; but in the name of all that is sane, 
let Ihem have the possibihty of sleeping from 2 o'clock 
tills. 

"Here is no tsudi chance now. No one interferes 1o 
stop any amount of noise in the night and early morninf . 
A party of cats may hold an uproarious concert in tie 
middle of the road without even a " hiss'' from the police- 
man to disperse them. Two "cabbies" may career do\^ 
the opposite gutters, and hold a conversation across tie 
road -at the top of their voices. A train of scavengers' 
carts may be driven down the streets, rumbling like thut- 
der, while the driver in the last cart holloas his jokes to the 



LONDON NOISB AND LONDON SLEEP. 25 

man in the front. In some districts it is thought necessary 
to create the most infernal noise abont 5 o^clock in the 
morning by setting a host of garrulous old men to scrape 
and stone the roads at that pleasant hour. On Sunday 
mornings the paper boys are allowed to bawl with all their 
might. At any hour of the night, a fool in love with a 
concertina may disturb a whole neighbourhood with the 
noise he pleases to think music ; and no interruption is 
given to any number of drunken rollickers who choose to 
sing and holloa up and down our streets and squares. I 
have said nothing of the early organ-grinders, collectors 
of hares' and rabbits' skins, sellers of water-cresses, the 
inevitable dustman, the rows attendant upon balls and 
receptions, or a hundred other sleep preventers, too pain- 
fully familiar to those who turn into their beds between 
12 and 3 o'clock in the morning, their brains fagged and 
excited by work — Parliamentary, scientific, judicial, pro- 
fessional, it matters not which, or even by those unavoid- 
able and wearying pursuits of social life which we call 
*' society." Of the sick I dare not even speak, for to them 
this everlasting noise is simply murder. But for those in 
ordinary health, for those who are doing the brainwork 
of the nation, I ask for some chance of at least six hours' 
quiet sleep out of the 24. Even this moderate allowance 
might suffice to restore the wear and tear of the day and 
refresh the spirits for the ever recurring fight. But such 
sleep is utterly impossible, as a rule, in the present state 
of things, and hence the yearly increasing decay of mental 
and nervous health. 

It needs but your aid. Sir, to procure a remedy. With 
proper pohce regulations the noisiest place in London can 
be kept comparatively quiet, as the citizens have shown in 
the main thoroughfare through their new meat market in 
Smithfield. There a couple of policemen, properly in 



26 JiONDON NOISE AND LONDON SLEEP. 

structed, stop all unpleasant noise. I trust, then, that be- 
fore London assembles again for work some steps may 
have been taken to give us quiet streets for at least six 
hours out of the twenty-four. 

I am, Sir, yours truly, M.D. 
Harley-street. Aug. 11, 1869. 



Leader from the "Times*' August 17, 1869, referring to 

the Authors letter, 

'' Our correspondent ' M.D.* ^[lay, we think, claim -the 
credit of having suggested, or at least diawn public atten- 
tion to, a new remedy for a very old and common com- 
plaint. The complaint cannot, indeed, be altogether got 
rid of without revolutionizing our whole system of modem 
Ufe, for it simply amounts to this — that men now-a-days 
work so hard, and live in such a constant whirl of excite- 
ment, that neither body nor mind gets sufficient recreation 
or rest. The mind is naturally the greater sufferer, for 
the obvious reason that it may be kept almost incessantly 
in harness, and may be working its very hardest, while 
the body, comfortably stretched on bed or sofa, is enjoying 
luxurious repose. It is scarcely too much to say, for 
instance, that men of anxious temperament engaged in 
commercial speculations during critical times do not, from 
the moment they open their eyes in the morning to the 
moment they close them at night, know what it is to have 
ten minutes altogether free from absorbing calculations 
how to avoid this possible piece of bad luck, or turn good 
luck to the best advantage. Even when they try to 
banish these exciting topics — an effort, however, which 



LONDON NOISE AND LONDON SLEEP. 27 

over-anxious minds seldom make very strenuously — ^their 
brain, nevertheless, will sometimes work in spite of them. 
And what happens to them happens, if in less degree, to 
nearly all who have to win their bread in professions and 
occupations where competition is keen. Hence it is, as 
' M.D.^ points out, that we see what are vaguely called 
' nervous complaints' steadily on the increase, often lead- 
ing, if they are not at once taken vigorously in hand, to 
confirmed ill-health, and sometimes even to insanity. 
'It is time,' he declares "that we turned our attention 
to this vital question, upon which hang not only the 
comfort and happiness of our best men and women of 
the day^ but the actual value of their mental work, the 
the continued sanity of their minds, and the mental cali- 
bre of their offspring." 

" We are afraid that nothing short of a miracle could pro- 
vide a complete remedy for the evil of which our corres- 
pondent complains. We should require a second Joshua 
to bid modem civilization stand still or change its course. 
There are, indeed, philosophers who look hopefully for- 
ward to the time when men will be content to do just 
enough work to supply them with the means of gratifying 
their proper mental and bodily wants — when they will not 
be for ever jostling and struggling with each other in the 
arduous race for power and wealth. The philosophers 
may, for aught we know, be right, and it at least gratifies 
the benevolent instincts to picture our over-worked world 
some day settling down by universal consent into a blessed 
state of repose. But certainly there are at present 
no signs of this coming millennium. The nineteenth cen- 
tury notion of 'enough' means 'always a little more.' 
Thus A may have plenty to eat and drink of the best, a 
comfortable house, a charming wife and family, a large 
balance at his banker's to spend in the most pleasurable 



28 LONDON NOISE AND LONDON SLEEP. 

ways prompted by a cultivated taste — may, in short, have 
all that the philosophers consider essential to human hap- 
piness ; but all this avails nothing to keep A quiet while 
B remains a yard ahead of him in the race of life, and no 
sooner is B distanced than he becomes equally solicitous 
about C. Nor is this always A's own fault, if fault it is to 
be considered, or his dehberate choice. He cannot stand 
still if he would, since to remain stationary where every- 
body else' is moving on is to lose ground which cannot, 
perhaps, be made good. The successful merchant or pro- 
fessional man toils in his office all day, and then goes 
home late at night too tired and worn out to enjoy the 
home comforts and luxuries with which his wealth has 
enabled him to smround himself. If you tell him that he 
is throwing all his opportunities away, that he might as 
well be a poor man without these advantages as rich with- 
out time for enjoying them, and that he would be wiser 
to content himself with doing two-thirds of his present 
work for two-thirds of his present pay, he will probably 
reply that he gladly would do this if he could, but that he 
has no choice. He cannot do just as much work as he 
likes, and leave the rest undone, without danger of losing 
his position altogether. In the general rush of eager com- 
petitors from all quarters, he must go ahead with the 
crowd, or risk being left far behind, and perhaps trodden 
down by it. When a man has attained so secure a posi- 
tion that he can please himself about taking or rejecting 
work, it usually either is time that he should retire upon 
his laurels, or else, if his health is good, long habit has 
made constant work such a second nature that he cannot 
get on without it. We are afraid that, until the promised 
millennium provides some substitute for the keen spirit of 
competition, as understood and practised in the nine- 
teenth century, there is no hope of escaping altogether 



LONDON NOISB AND LONDON SLEEP. 29 

from the growing evils of over-work, since every new in- 
vention which diminishes space and time, or otherwise 
multiplies fiicilities for communication between man and 
man, only supplies fresh materials for the competitive 
■spirit to work upon/' 

"However, that we cannot effectually remedy the evils of 
over -work, and that it is steadily on the increase, are only 
additional reasons for adopting what partial remedies we 
can find; and ^M.D/ has at least one to suggest well 
worth public consideration. The best cure for over-work 
is obviously rest, and the best kind of rest is sound sleep 
iat night. The finst question usually that the doctor asks 
ia patient suflferinjg from 'nervous exhaustion' 'worry' 
or 'brain-fisig' is whether he sleeps well, and, if the 
answer as in the negative, every plan is tried to secure him 
that surest and safest of all restoratives, a sound nighfs 
lesi. Tet in London, as 'M.D' bitterly complains — and 
the complaint is repeated by other correspondents, whose 
letters we publish to-day-'^-in which, as the busiest oentre 
of industrial and social life, the wear and tear of over- 
work is greatest, and the need for the best kind of rest 
propoirtionately pressing, no attention whatever is paid to 
procoriing quiet nights. Anybody and everybody is allow- 
ed, without let or hindrance, to make night hideous by 
whatever discordant sounds may suit his jovial or fantastic 
mood, his pleasure in the performance being probably 
^nhanoed by the thought that he is disturbing all the 
-commonplace, prosaic people who have tamely slunk off to 
bed instead of ' enjoying life' as he does. Our corre- 
spondent, 'M.T).,' graphically described with the indig- 
nant energy apparently of a victim, the various nocturnal 
noises which in London murder sleep. It is not necessary 
here to re-enumerate them, or to say more about them 
than that they nearly all — certainly «11 the most objection- 



80 LONDON NOISE AND LONDON SLEEP. 

able — might be, if not altogether stopped, at least kept 
within less troublesome limits by the police. The police, 
for instance, cannot prevent cabs from remaining in or 
driving about the streets all night, but they can prevent 
the cabmen from carrying on a conversation in Stentorian 
tones with each other or the watermen or any late revel- 
ler who provokes them to a wordy war; and although the 
reveller himself cannot be kept from wandering all night 
about London, he may at least be kept quiet without any 
unwarrantable infringement upon the liberties of the Brit- 
ish subject, and it is to revellers that much of the nightly 
disturbance in town is due. Besides, the interference of 
the pohce, independently of its immediate and special 
effects, would generally exercise a beneficial influence by 
directing public attention to a question which, notwith- 
standing its vital importance, is now strangely neglected. 
Unless a law is so unpopular that people deliberately rebel 
against it, its natural tendency is to educate the public 
mind into a spontaneous appreciation of the practice which 
it enjoins. Many Londoners, otherwise harmless and 
well-disposed enough, are often noisy at night simply be^ 
cause the duty of keeping quiet and allowing their neigh- 
bours to sleep undisturbed has never been fairly brought 
home to them. But if the violation of this duty came to 
be recognized as an offence, not merely in theory, but in 
practice, rendering the offender liable to be locked up 
some hours in a police-cell and punished next morning by 
a magistrate, the duty itself would acquire its proper im- 
portance in the eyes of all respectable law-regarding 
people. Nor would the indirect effects of police interfer- 
ence cease, we think, here. In various other ways atten- 
tion would be drawn to the necessity of securing quiet 
nights in London. Streets would be paved, houses and 
windows be constructed, and even bedrooms chosen with 



EXERCISE. 31 

mncli greater regard than at present to this point if its 
importance were more generally recognized — ^if, in fact, it 
became one of the standing sanitary arrangements of the 
metropolis. Now, although a vast number of Londoners 
suffer sadly from want of sleep at night, they have learnt 
by long habit to look upon it as a necessary evil, insepar- 
able from London life. They bear with it, because their 
only notion of escaping from it is to rush off to some quiet 
place in the country where there are no night cabmen or 
drunken revellers, and by most Londoners the remedy 
would probably be considered worse than the disease. 
Yet, for all this, they do not at all relish the disease, .but 
would gladly be rid of it, and if the pohce will take the 
matter up and endeavour gradually and judiciously, by 
making a few well-chosen examples, to protect the streets 
of London and other large towns from needless disturb- 
ance between, say, midnighb and 6 or 7 o'clock in the 
morning, we are quite sure they will receive the thanks of 
the community, and may rely on public support.^' 



EXBEOISE. 

15. During ordinary health, some part of every day 
ought to be spent out of doors ; and in ill-health it is of 
great importance not to discontinue the observance of this 
rule without good reason ; for, although in eertain states of 
disease it may be very important to remain in-doors, it must 
not be forgotten that proper clothing, goloshes, respirators, 
and umbrellas, may make it not only safe but advantageous 



82 SXEBCISE. 

to go out of doors for exercise, when, without them, it 
would be very injurious. (See Posture). 

16. Out-of-door exercise should be as active as the 
strength will allow, and should always be continued up to 
the point of slight — but not over — ^fatigue. This will be 
the best measure of the proper amount for both the weak 
and the strong. 

17. Unless the air is pure, and the person strongs 
exercise before breakfast is more likely to do harm than 
good; a tumbler of milk and a biscuit, however, will 
be a sufficient meal to take before the walk or ride — « 
more substantial breakfast being taken afterwards, (See 
Meals). 

18. Especial care is needed not to expose the body to 
chills when heated by exercise ; and cold drinks should 
not be taken at that time, unless the exercise is about to 
be continued immediately; and even then the quantity of 
cold drink taken at once should be very small. (See 
Meals). 



The following excellent remarks are from Mr. Maclaren'a 
work '^ ON Physical Education^^ referred to at p. 9. 

• 

''Such in brief is Exercise, such the ends which it 
accomplishes, and such the manner of their accomplish- 
ment ; viz. the destruction of the tissues, the hastening of 
the decay and death of every part coming within its in- 
fluence; but also the speedy removal of all waste, the 
hastening forward of fresh material for its replacement ; 
and in doing this it attains three distinct but co-relative 
results. 

1. It increases the size and power of the voluntary 
muscles employed. 



EXERCISE 33 

2. It increases the functional capacity of the involuntary 
muscles employed. 

3. It promotes the health and strength of the whole 
body, by increasing respiration and quickening circula- 
tion/^ p. 15. ........ 

^^It is health rather than strength that is the great 
requirement of modem men at modern occupations ; it is 
not the power to travel great distances, carry great bur- 
dens, lift great weights, or overcome great material ob- 
structions ; it is simply that condition of body and that 
mere want of vital capacity, which shall enable each man 
in his place to pursue his calling, and work on in his work- 
ing life, with the greatest amount of comfort to himself 
and usefulness to his fellow men Let it not be in- 
ferred from this that I consider health and strength as in 
any manner opposed to each other, on the contrary, they 
are most intimately allied and are usually, by the same 
means and by the same manner obtained, very closely are 
they connected but they are not the same, and a man may 

possess either without the other/' p. 24 A most 

important principle in Exercise, and one which should 
ever be borne in mind, is, that it should be regulated by 
individual fitness, for the exercise that scarcely amounts to 
exertion in one person will be injurious and dangerous to 
another, and not only is this inequality observable among 
different individuals, but, the same individual may have 
parts of his body possessing special power or presenting 
special weakness. * man may have hmbs capable of 
transporting him at he rate of four miles an hour 
throughout the day, and for many days in succession, but 
with heart or lungs all unequal to the effort. Or he 
. may have an organization so frail and a temperament so 
susceptible to stimulation or excitement, that the one is 
an abiding danger to the other." p. 55. 

D 



34 .POSTURE, BATHING. 

POSTURE. 

19. It IS of great importance to acquire a habit of draw- 
ing the breath deeply and slowly, so as freely to expand 
the lungs during ordinary breathing. This requires that 
the head and shoulders be thrown well back in walking, 
sitting, and standing, and that no clothing be worn tight 
round the ribs. Those engaged in sedentary or stooping 
occupations should especially attend to this advice. 

20. Those whose occupation obliges them to maintain 
the erect posture for a number of hours each day, should 
take every opportunity of lying flat down, even if only for 
a few minutes at a time. They should also bear in mind 
that standing will not take the place of walking exeroise, 
(See Exercise). 

21. All persons whose pursuits require the long con- 
tinuance or frequent assimaption of any particular position 
or movement of the body or limbs, should take every 
opportunity of changing it for an opposite position or 
movement. (See Rest and Change, and Sleep).* 



BATHING. 

22. Warm baths, Turkish baths, vapour baths, shower 
baths, and cold plunges, should only be used under special 
medical orders. 

23. During ordinary health, the skin of the body and 
limbs should be smartly rubbed once in twenty-four hours, 

*For "Gymnastics" see Mr. Maclaren*8 ''System of Physical Eduoa- 
tion/' already quoted. For Effects of unhealthy posture, see Mn 
Heather Bigg's " Orthopraxy." 



REGULATION OF THE BOWELS. 85 

first with a rough towel, wet with cold water, and then 
with a dry one till in a glow. The bather should stand on 
a dry rug while using this " cold friction bath" and it 
should not last more than one or two minutes, including 
both the wet and the dry rub. Salt may be advantageously 
added to the water ; and the bath may be used either on 
rising or going to bed, according to the feehngs and con- 
venience of each individual. When water cannot be borne 
cold, it must not be used tepid, but scalding hot. — ^The 
momentary application of very hot water to the skin, 
immediately followed by a brisk friction, will produce a 
direct-action glow nearly approaching the re-action glow 
following the application of cold. 

24. If the weather is very cold or the person delicate 
and chilly, the upper half of the body should be uncovered 
and rubbed first, and then a woollen vest should be put 
on and the lower half uncovered and rubbed. 

25. It is well to accustom the feet to being washed in 
cold water, but it must be done cautiously at first, and 
they should never be kept in the water more than a few 
seconds. 

26. It is obvious, that there are times when cold bathing 
of aU kinds must be temporarily discontinued. 



REGULATION OF THE BOWELS. 

27. As a general rule, the bowels ought to act, at some 
stated time, once in the twenty-four hours ; and it is best 
to accustom them to act in the morning, afber breakfast. 

28. If they do not act spontaneously, they should be 

d2 



36 BEST AND CHANGE. 

assisted by some wholesome article of diet which is found 
to affect them, or by some harmless aperient medicine, 
which mast be prescribed by a medical man, to suit the 
particular case ; as the best aperient for one person may 
be the worst for another, 

29. Provided that an aperient medicine is suited to the 
case, contains no drug injurious to the general health, and 
is not taken oftener than every second night, there is no 
harm in taking it at bed-time, whenever the bowels have 
not acted satisfactorily during the day. 



REST AND CHANGE. 

30. Active life is essential to the hesdth of foody and 
mind; but botli require periods of rest, in addition to the 
regular hours of sleep. It is much better, therefore, to 
work vigorously for a time and then to rest, than to keep 
up a monotonous round of lifeless drudgOTy. (See Sleep ; 
and Exercise). 

31. The "current of the thoughts'' is to the mind what 
posture is to the body ; and both require change to prevent 
weariness and deformity. (See Posture). 

32. Rest of body or mind may be obtained either by 
abstaining from all bodily or mental exercise, or by change 
of occupation, and as the one gives entire rest and the 
other only partial rest, it is best to adopt each of these 
measures at different times. 

33. It must be remembered, that, as the mind acts by 
means of the brain, which is a part of the body, it cannot act 



MEALS. 37 

tealthfully while the body is suffering under disease or 
exhaustion. The '^ gait " of the mind is affected by the 
condition of the brain ; as much as the ^^ gait " of the 
body is affected by the condition of the limbs. 



MEALS. 

34. Counting from the time (^ beginning one meal to 
that of beginning the next^ food should be taken at regular 
intervals of froni four to five hours, except the interval 
between dinner and a very slight tea, which may be reduced 
to two or three hours. In weakly persons, and when the 
appetite will alk>w only a very small meal to be taken at 
one time, the intervals between all the meals may be re- 
duced to firom three to four hours. In illness, the interval 
must be ordered day by day by the medical man. 

35. The chief meal of the day — the full-meal — by what- 
ever name it is called, should be taken at whatever hour 
active occupation, both bodily and mental, can be suspended 
for about two hours ; provided always that not less than 
two hours elapse between the conclusion of the full meal 
and bedtime. 

36. Breakfast should be the second best meal of the 
day, and should be taken leisurely immediately after 
rising in the morning. (See Exercise). 

37. The other meals should be taken punctually at the 
fixed hours, but should be only Ught refireshments, and 
small in bulk. 

38. No food should be taken in the intervals between 
the regular meak. 



38 PROPER HOURS FOR MEALS. 

39. As a general rule, pure water may be taken at any 
time, if indicated by thirst, so that the body is not heated 
by exercise, and the quantity drunk at once does not ex- 
ceed a quarter of a pint. (See Exercise). 

40. Spirituous liquors should not be taken the first 
thing in the morning or the last thing at night, without 
medical orders, they should not be taken when the stomach 
is empty, and they should not be drunk stronger than in 
the proportion of one ounce avoirdupois of absolute alcohol 
in about ten fluid ounces of liquid. One of the principal 
sources of mischief in the use of alcoholic liquors — ^is the 
practice of taking them to quench thirst in the place of 
unfermented drinks. The sense of thirst is a call from, 
the organism for water, not for alcohol. Let the alcohol 
be taken as food, as medicine, or as a luxury, but not to 
quench thirst in the place of those unfermented liquors 
which are essential to health as diluents and solvents. 
(See Alcohol Table, and Eemarks on Alcohol, Chapter I.) 

41. Alcohol Fasts. — ^Those who habitually take alcohol 
daily, should abstain from it entirely for a few days twice 
or thrice a year. 



The importance of ''proper hours for meals," is more 
fully explained in the following extracts from a letter by 
the Author, addressed to Employers and printed for pri- 
vate circulation in 1852, to advance the first step to- 
wards improving the national dining-hours of the 
commercial and working classes. 

Gentlemen, — I address you as individuals who have a 
certain influence over the habits of a large portion of the 
community. Many past events testify so much anxiety 
on your part to increase the domestic comfort and social 



PROPER HOURS FOR MEALS. 39 

liappiness of your dependants, that I feel desirous to assist 
you in your praiseworthy object, by calling your attention 
to a most fruitful source of discomfort, pain, and even 
misery, peculiarly rife among the objects of your solicitude ; 
I beg, therefore, to point out to you, that it is in your 
power either to ameliorate these evils, or to increase them, 
according as you frame some of your regulations 

That animal life cannot go on in even passable health 
and comfort without sufScient food and effectual digestion^ 
is a fact perfectly familiar to all ; yet, unhappily, among 
those who live an in-door life, effectual digestion is scarcely 
ever known. They constitute the bulk of that enormous 
number of persons who suffer from what is popularly 
known as ^^ indigestion.'^ 

Now, there can be no question that they are pre-disposed 
to this class of diseases by many circumstances, quite in- 
separable from their occupations. But that makes it the 
more desirable to avoid all those causes of disease which 
are not necessary to their pursuits. 

I must request you to remember that I am not speaking 
of any pa/rticular form of indigestion, but in a general 
and broad sense, of all those various maladies classed under 
the popular term. 

The choice of the hours at which clerks, shopmen, me- 
chanics, labourers, and other business-servants of both 
sexes take their meals, depends almost entirely upon the 
decision of their superiors. 

If these hours are not well chosen, indigestion, in some 
form, is the certain consequence sooner or later. And you 
will see, from the few plain facts which I shall lay before 
you, that the notions which have long prevailed as to the 
proper hours for taking food, and consequently the regula- 
tions of nearly all business estabHshments, in this respect, 
are inconsistent with the conditions which physiology 



40 PROPER HOURS FOR MEALS. 

teaches us to be essential to healthy digestion — ^with the 
requirements of the various occupations by which servants 
gain their livelihood, and with the conventional arrange- 
ments of society in the present day 

I shall hope, by avoiding all technicalities and minute 
physiological details, and by employing the plainest popu- 
lar terms, to make my meaning perfectly intelligible to 
the unprofessional, to whom, in this instance, it is necessary 
to address my remarks ; and I now ask your particular at- 
tention to the following statement of the conditions ne- 
cessary to healthy digestion. 

1. Pood of appropriate quality and bulk. 

2. (In the case of o^full meal), rest of body and tranquil- 
ity of mind for a short time previous to taking food, and 
for at least an hour afterwards. (In the case of a light 
meal), gentle exercise, and moderate mental activity may 
be allowed with impunity. 

3. Effectual mastication, by which the alimentary matter 
is completely disintegrated and saturated with saliva, and 
the meal taken slowly. 

4. A sufficient interval between any two meals, to allow 
the first to have been digested and removed from the sto- 
mach, long enough for the digestive functions to regain 
their full vigour, before the second is introduced. The 
period which should intervene will depend upon the rapid- 
ity of digestion, which may vary according to the quantity 
eaten, the state of the health, the nature and amount of 
the previous exercise, the condition of the mind, and many 
other circumstances. 

5. Caution that the stomach is not left empty long 
enough for the system to become exhausted, and the di- 
gestive powers thereby weakened. 

6. Strict adherence to the same hours for taking food, 
that the stomach may acquire a habit of preparing for its 
reception. 



PBOPEB HOUBS FOB MEALS. 41 

7. An interval between the last meal and bed time, 
sufficient to allow the work of digestion to be concluded 
before lying down to sleep. 

Many other conditions might be mentioned^ but as the 
few main points already stated are enough for our present 
purpose^ I shall confine myself to them. 

The circumstances under which the majority of those 
persons are placed, whose health, we are principally con- 
sidering, must now be reviewed, in order to compare 
them with the conditions essential to healthy digestion, 
and to draw the necessary conclusions as to the proper 
hours for meals. 

Prom the factory artisan up to the banker's or mer- 
chant's clerk, several important cii'cumstances are common 
to all. 

1. The day is devoted to labour either of the body or 
of the mind, or of both. 

2. Business must be continued unremittingly up to 
the moment of leaving for meals, and resumed immedi- 
ately on returning from them. 

3. The time which can be spai'ed for meals during 
business hours, must necessarily be very limited. 

4. Some portion of this short time must be occupied in 
repairing to, and returning from the refreshment place. 

In many instances, especially in retail trades, the nature 
of the business renders it impossible to keep to fixed times 
for those meals taken during working hours. 

The feet of taking time for meals out of the middle of 
the day, necessarily makes it later in the evening before 
the business can be finished, and this not only to the ex- 
tent of the time during which work is actually stopped, 
for we all know how much the progress of business is 
interrupted by the simple acts of discontinuing and re- 
commencing it, more especially when books and calcu- 



42 PBOPEB HOUBS FOB MEALS. 

lations are concerned. The effects of these combined 
circumstances may be viewed daily by visiting the public 
dining rooms attended by clerks, the lodgings of labourers 
at their dinner hour, and the offices and factories before 
and after meal-time — dinner-time more particularly, and 
dinner being the principal meal in the day — ^hefull meal — 
it is of it that I shall chiefly speak. 

Twelve, one and two o^clock seem to be the national 
dining hours for the working classes, and sixty minutes 
the maximum time allowed From business for this chief 
meal. The hour arriving, books or tools are hastily laid 
aside, and the dining place is reached by a sharp walk^ 
which adds to the bodily fatigue of the labourer, and is 
not long enough or sufficiently leisurely to rest the brain 
of the accountant. The dinner must be despatched 
hurriedly, or there will not be time for the artizan to 
smoke his pipe, or for the clerk to glance at the Times, 
or perhaps the reading and eating are carried on at once : 
mastication must be carelessly performed, the mind is 
kept occupied, and the stomach rapidly loaded with food 
before it has had time to make ready for it ; and, in some 
cases, a larger quantity is taken than the stomach has 
power to dispose of, simply because it is introduced too 
expeditiously for the system to become acquainted, as it 
were, that the supply of its wants is being effected. The 
meal finished, and the paper glanced at, or the pipe 
smoked, the sharp walk must be repeated, now with a 
full stomach, and business resumed before digestion has 
had time even to commence : and at this period, when the 
organic energies ought to be all concentrated about- the 
stomach, they are at once summoned to the brain or to 
the muscular system. Consequently, the meal remains 
imperfectly digested, or not digested at all, lingers in the 
stomach beyond its proper time, and is finally expelled 



PBOPBB HOUBS FOB MEALS. 43 * 

in an unnatural condition, unfitted to undergo the im- 
portant changes necessary before it can be appropriated 
for healfchy nutrition ; in all probability the next meal is 
introduced before the former one has entirely left the sto- 
mach, and thus is the mischief increased. Comparing the 
circumstances, here briefly enumerated, with those essen- 
tial to healthy digestion, laid down before, the antagonism, 
so evident between them, plainly shows that '^ dyspepsia,^' 
or difficult digestion, is only the natural consequence of 
80 persistent a disregard to the laws of health. 

I am aware that different businesses do, from their 
nature, present various obstacles in the way of carrying 
out such sanitary measures as are most desirable, and that 
one set of rules will not always be practicable in two 
establishments. Therefore I should advise that the few 
principal conditions of healthy digestion before men- 
tioned be carefully borne in mind; and that in each 
establishment the hours for meals be so selected, that 
these conditions and the calls of business may be arranged 
in unison with each other. 

' For a considerable period of time, during which my 
attention has been more particularly directed to this 
subject, I have made extensive inquiries on points con- 
nected with it, among employers and their servants, and 
have also had sufficient opportunities of enforcing the 
better regulation of meals upon both classes, with effects 
so decidedly beneficial, that I can with confidence impress 
the importance of the alterations I propose, and am 
convinced of their general practicability. After this 
experience and a mature consideration of the subject 
scientifically, I beg leave to call attention to those re- 
gulations, which appear to me to afford the nearest 
approach to the healthy standard that can be practicably 



44 PBOPEB HOUBS FOB MEALS. 

arranged to meet the necessary obligations of business 
establishments in general.* 

Let me assume that a substantial breakfast has been 
taken soon after rising, and a space of time allowed 
to elapse between the meal and the commencement of 
active business ; (in those cases where the hour for busi- 
ness is very early, the breakfast should be divided, the 
fast being broken by a light fluid meal, and a second 
light meal taken some hours after). But to return to the 
better plan. Breakfast having been taken, and the day^s 
employment commenced, the arrangements are now under 
the direction of the employer. From this moment until 
labour J whether mental or bodily, has ceased, no FULL-m^al 
should be allowed. This is to be considered the fibst 
GOLDEN BULE. The SECOND is not less important — ^that 
some light refection should be taken punctually every four 
or five hours. By adhering to the first rule, the system 
will never be charged with the task of active digestion at 
times when it is amply engaged in other functions ; the 
digestive organs will not be injured by being called upon 
to undertake what they cannot properly perform ; while 
the servant wiH not suffer from that oppressive languor 
and inertia, so unavoidable after a full meal, and will be 
so much the better fitted for his duties. By the second 
rule the system is maintained in a state of energy, the 
light refreshment, being easily digested during bodily or 
mental activity, supports the strength much more than a 
full but ill-digested and unassimilated meal can possibly 
do, and leaves the stomach itself unwearied, in a state of 
healthy vigour when the hour of relaxation from business 
arrives. Even in weak persons, a light meal will almost 
invariably have quitted the stomach in four or at most five 

* This was written eighteen years ago and subsequent experience 
' has amply proved the value of the rules laid down. 



PROPER HOURS FOR MEALS. 45 

hours^ and in the strong considerably sooner than this ; at 
^'ntervals of four or five hours, therefore, according to the 
strength of the individual and the rapidity of his digestion, 
the stomach will be preparing for fresh work, and will call 
for it by the return of appetite, which must not on any 
account be disregarded. And in this place I must again 
impress upon you thb serious importance to health, op 

NOT neglecting THESE OCCASIONAL REFRESHMENTS DURING 

business. 

The day^s labour over, the objections to taking a foil 
meal are at an end, provided the second golden rule has 
been observed ; and the amount of refreshment, necessary 
to repair the wear and tear of the day^s exertions, may 
now be taken with decided advantage. I must here re- 
mind both employers and employed, that rest of mind and 
of body are necessary for a short time before taking a meal.* 
To those who have been mentally occupied with sedentary 
business, a short leisurely walk will be a very proper 
prelude to dinner; but to those whose physical powers 
have been taxed during the day, there should be a short 
period of perfect rest before commencing the chief meal. 
It is a habit too common among commercial men to 
return home, impatient for their dinners, and to commence 
eating immediately, while in a fatigued condition. I have, 
in many instances, induced such persons to lie down for a 
quarter of an hour before beginning their meal ; and have 
seen so much benefit arise from this practice, that I can 
confidently recommend it to all who are actively engaged 
during the day. When the dinner is finished, one hour 
at least should be devoted to mental and physical tran- 
quility — some leisurely amusement being prejerable to 
sleep. When the meal has not exceeded the bounds of 
moderation, a sufficient quantity of gastric fluid for the 

* See p. 40 foi the conditions essential to healthy digestion. 



I 



46 PROPER HOURS FOR MEALS. 

digestion of the whole will generally be secreted within 
this period of rest; after which, the same quantity of 
blood and nervous energy being no longer required by the 
stomach, some more active employment of the mind or 
body may be indulged in, and all will go on well. 

The full meal of the day, then — the dinner — should, 
under ordinary circumstances, be taken between the hours 
of five and seven p.m., which will allow time for it to be 
entirely disposed of before the hour of sleep arrives ; and 
as the whole night passes without refreshment, a light 
refection such as our national '^ tea,^* is very desirable a 
few hours before bed-time. These arrangements will be 
found perfectly consistent with the essential conditions of 
healthy digestion; and, with a little contrivance and 
modification of hours in particular instances, are practicable 
in the majority of large establishments. And here let the 
friends of " early closing'^ observe, that by doing away 
with the injurious mid-day dinner, there will be so much 
saving of time in the best part of the day, and consequently 
a better opportunity of concluding business earlier in the 
evening. 

It remains for me briefly to point out some of the incon- 
sistencies of the system now most popular among dyspep- 
tics and those employed in business. The dinner being 
taken at one or two o'clock must necessarily be a hurried 
one ; it is impossible in the middle of business to allow 
time for rest, before or after the meal, to any serviceable 
extent : the evil consequences of this, in a large number 
of instances, have been already referred to. The '^ tea" 
being taken between five and seven o'clock, can only be a 
light meal, for the stomach does not require more so soon 
atter dinner, therefore there is but one alternative, to leave 
the system without substantial nourishment from two 
0^ clock p.m. until breakfast next day, or to take another 



FROPSB HOUES FOB MBALS. 47 

meal just before bed-time : of the two the latter would be 
the better, if the supper could be limited to a very mode- 
rate refection; but after waiting from an early dinner 
until nine or ten o^ clock in the evening, a person in health 
has too good an appetite to be contented with this ; there- 
fore the stomach is loaded at a time when it cannot empty 
itself pix)perly before the hour of sleep ; the disadvantages 
of which are too familiar to need repeating here. Any 
one, therefore, who is anxious to regulate his diet according 
to the popular ideas of what is healthy, finds himself in 
this dilemma. He believes it to be an essential point that 
he should dine at an early hour. He knows that rest 
before meals, eating them slowly, and rest after them, are 
all necessary to proper digestion. He also knows perfectly 
well that, in the middle of the day, his business will not 
allow him either the rest or the leisurely dinner. Supper 
he is convinced is a most unwholesome meal, yet he knows 
from sore experience, that to fast from his early *^ tea'^ 
until next morning, leaves him too exhausted to sleep 
comfortably, to rise with vigour, or to enjoy breakfast. At 
length, if he reason at all, it becomes clear to him that to 
do what he thinks right in one respect, he must do wrong 
in another — a sufficient proof that there is error in the 
whole system. 



CHAPTER III. 

Food, Heat, and Motion — ^A foot-pound a poot-ton a 
British unit op heat — ^Mechanical Equivalent op a 
British unit op heat — Combustion op Carbon, Con- 
sumption OP Oxygen, Evolution op Heat — Mode in 
which the heat evolved prom pood is disposed op — 
Composition op some op the principal articles op 

POOD AND their HeAT EQUIVALENTS. 

*^* See EssentialB of a Nonnal Diet. 

The relation between food, beat, and mecbanical force 
has been the subject of some of the most important inves- 
tigations of late years, and the light which has been thrown 
upon it is one of the greatest steps in the progress of 
medical science. But so far as medical art and practice 
are concerned, very little appKcation has yet been made of 
this advance in scientific knowledge. This is only what 
might be expected, considering the occult nature of the 
subject, and the scarcity of time among the great body of 
medical practitioners to master and familiarise themselves 
with the details of such departments of medical progress. 

Nevertheless, it is high time that such facts as are at 
present known, and such applications of them as are at 
present possible, should be added to the common stock of 
knowledge possessed by practical medical men ; for it is 
only in this way that the public can derive benefit from 
our advances in science. 

For the purpose, therefore, of enabling practitioners 
easily to familiarise themselves with these matters, the 
following concise statement has been prepared : — 



POOD, HEAT, AND MOTION. 



49 



1. A Foot-pound is the amount of mechanical force re- 
qnired to raise a pound weight one foot. 

2. A British Unit of Eeat is the amount of heat required 
to raise the temperature of one pound of water one degree 
Fahrenheit. 

3. This amount of heat (a British unit) may be convert- 
ed mto mechanical force suflElcient to raise a pound weight 
772 feet. 

4. This amount of heat (a British unit) is generated by 
a pound weight falling through a space of 772 feet. 
Hence 772 foot-pounds is called the Mechanical Equivalent 
of a British unit of heat. 

5. One ton weight is 2,240 lbs.; ^ = 0-34465; 
therefore, the heat units multiplied by 0*34466, will 
always give the mechanical equivalent in Foot-tons. 

6. The heat of combustion of carbon and hydrogen /wZZy 
oxidised (to COj and H^O) is as follows : — 

1 lb. fO evolves 14,600 j ^^^^ ^^^ ^f g-^^^ 
(H „ 62,032) 

7. The total heat of combustion of a compound contain- 
ing H and C is the sum of the quantities of heat which the 
C and H contained in it would produce separately by their 
combustion. 

8. It has been found that the presence of Hydrogen 
with Oxygen in the proportion to form water does not affect 
the total heat of combustion. It is only the excess of Hy- 
drogen that can be made serviceable as a source of avail- 
able heat. 

9. The mean consumption of oxygen by an adult man 
of average stature (weight 160 lbs.) taking ordinary exer- 
cise is about 30 ozs. avoirdupois in 24 hours, and the heat 
evolved by each 1 oz. of oxygen in combining with carbon, 
hydrogen, etc., is about 340 British units. Hence, 10,000 
British units of heat will be evolved every 24 hours by the 

B 



50 FOOD, HEAT, AND MOTION. 

combination of 30 ozs. of oxygen with carbon, hydrogen, 
etc. ; therefore, the food of an adult man, under ordinary 
circumstances, should be such as may, in addition to other 
purposes, evolve at least 10,000 British units of heat. 

10. Practical experience in the dieting uf large numbers 
of men, and other means, have enabled us to establish tho 
fact, that such an average man, as above described, re- 
quires, for the maintenance of health, a diet which shall 
contain about 4 ozs. of plastic materials, 3 ozs. of fat, and 
10 ozs. of Carbo-hydrates ; and on careful analysis of this 
diet, we find that it can supply the required 10,000 British 
units of heat — viz., 2,516 from the plastic, 3,357 from the 
fat, and 4150 from the cai'bo-hydrates ; total, 10,023. 

11. The mode in which these 10,000 British units of 
heat are disposed of, and the purposes which they serve, 
may be seen in the following calculation which has been 
made as nearlj' correct as possible. 8,000 British units 
are required as sensible heafc, — ^to raise the temperature of 
the inspired air to the temperature of the body, to 
vaporise the pulmonary halitus, and to maintain ani- 
mal heat. The mechanical equivalent of 2,000 British 
units (equal to 690 foot-tons) is expended in actual 
work, more than half of which is employed in internal 
vital work (the mechanical work of the heart alone is 
equivalent to 200 foot- tons; respiratory and other vital 
movements may be estimated as equivalent to nearly 200 
foot-tons more), leaving about 290 foot-tons available for 
external work, which may be. represented by the labour of 
walking 16 miles; but of course only so much is available 
for actual walking, as is not used in the other external 
movements of the body, which we daily perform. 

In the folowing table the conditions laid down in No. 6, 
7, 8, of the foregoing paragraphs have been observed in 
calculating the British units of heat given in the last co- 
lumn. 



FOOD, BEAT. AND XOTIOM. 



in of Oie siticlea of fbod iu tLii table will not. be found to agrea 

eiitctl; nith any otM pabluhed aualjsu. 1S6 aepaiate Bnal^iea b7 amisent cbemiita 
haie been examined and compared ibr the purpose of fixing, as nearl; aa practicable, 
the approximate mean oompoiition of each article. 



Abticlm or 
Food, 


k 

i 


1 


i 


I 
1 


1^ 
< 


I 


1 


1 


N. 


H. 

■009 


0. 

■072 


C. 
■058 


1 


Apple . . 




I'm 


002 


... 


■135 


53 


Bacon (dried) 




L-m 


■084 


■625 


- 


- 


... 


OOJ 


286 


■013 


078 


■o;8 


-540 


754 


Bread . . 




i-oco 


■100 


-007 


■453 


... 


■010 


010 


420 


■ore 


037 


■247 


■260 


259 


Butter . . 




■■"» 


•010 


■860 










.20 


■002 


.00 


■083 


•685 


968 


Cheese . . 




.-OOP 


■30S 


■256 


■024 


- 


.„ 


(M? 


365 


■049 


053 


-108 


■378 


495 


Egg . . . 




rooo 


■150 


■ro8 


... 


... 


... 


0^5 


717 


•024 


023 


045 


■r66 


218 


Fig (dried) . 




vow, 


■030 


■009 


■570 


... 


■150 


034 


187 


■008 


044 


■329 


-24S 


236 


Fish (fresh) 




i-ooo 


■166 


-00a 








029 


797 


•026 


OIJ 


039 


■096'nB 


Flour (Wbeai) . 


.-«» 


■14. -CIO 


■693 




-013 




125 


■023 


056 


■377 


-394 392 


Indian Con. Meal 

Meat (Butcher's,) 

cooked) . . f, 


:: 


■OS I, -045 
-225-089 


■700 

... 


_. 


■028 


00a 
025 


661 


■013 
■036 


056 

026 


367 


•390 
•192 


393 

.45 


Milk (new) . 






■045-031 


■04S 






006 


870 


■007 


010 


039 


d6S 


SI 


Oatmeal , . 




lOOO 


■150 


-05S 


•532 




■oq6 


038 


'34 


■024 


032 


302 


362 


383 


Pea (dry) . 




lODO 


■2ig 


■015 


■469 




■t33 


027 


'37 


■035 


048 


283 


337 


354 


Pork (fresh) 




i-ooo 


-'75 


■i5o 


._ 


- 


... 


032 


643 


■02 s 


031 


05s -221 


293 


Potatoes . 




r-ooo 


■017 


... 


■230 


... 


■016 


oir 


726 


■003 


016 


"'["' 


106 


Rice . . . 




i-ooo 


■051 


-004 


■B17 




■033 


003 


090 


■008 


057 


414 ^393 


37S 


Suet . . . 




.000 




■B60 


... 


-OM 




- 


120 


■003 


roi 


086-690 


975 


Sugar (LoaO 




r-ooo 


.„ 




-^ 


... 


... 


... 


too 


... 


039 


460-381 


330 


Vegetables (fresh) 


i-ooo 


'M 


■^J..s 


... 


■008 


007 


B95 


■002 


006 


043 '035 


38 



^The Heehanioal Bqiuralent of the Britiah Unite of Heat ma; be calculated aecording 
to the dinctioni given at p. 49. 

12 



CHAPTER IV. 

ESSENTIAIS OF A NORMAL DIET — ^MODB OP CONSTEUCTIKa DIETS 
— EXPENSrVB DIETS AND CHEAP DIETS FOE MAINTAININQ 
HEALTH — TABLES AND ANALYSES — ^EFFECTS OF NEGLECTINO 
EVEN ONE OF THE ESSENTIALS OF A NORMAL DIET. 



ESSENTIALS OP A NOEMAL DIET. 
(See Food, Heat, Motion.) 

A healthy adult man of average stature, taking moderate 
exercise, will require and can consume, daily, from 32 to 
40 ounces avoirdupois of dry nutritious food, which should 
have the following characters : — 

1. About 200 Hiust be mineral matter. 

2. Prom f to J may be water, leaving f or not less 
than J or from 15 to 20 ozs. of anhydrous soUd alimentary 
material. 

3. Three or four ounces of plastic matter must be com- 
bined with three or four times that quantity of heat-giving 
material. 

4. The heat-giving constituents must contain a mixture 
of fats (hydro-carbons) with saccharine materials (carbo-hy- 
drates), in the proportion of about 1 of the former to 3 of 
the latter. 

5. These heat-giving constituents should supply from 6 
to 10 ounces of carbon, the exact amount required varying 
with season, exercise, etc. 



NORMAL DIET TABLES. 53 

6. The Articles of Food must be sufficiently varied to 
meet the requirements of the taste and of the appetite, 
and their Mechanical and other Conditions must be suited 
to the digestive powers of the stomach. 

In addition to these characters, every complete diet 
must contain some potash-vegetable or fruit ; and the total 
amount of water taken in 24 hours, including that contained 
in the dry food, must not be less than 70 ozs. avoirdupoisv 



DIET TABLES FOR THE MAINTENANCE OF 
HEALTH IN ADULTS LIVING IN THE CLL 
MATE OF THE UNITED KINGDOM. 

Each diet table contains all the essential elements of 
nutrition, in forms, quantities, and proportions necessary 
to the maintenance of health. The tables have been made 
complete without alcohol, leaving this to be ordered or 
not, according to circumstances. But, if spirituous liquors 
are added to any diet table, the quantity of carbon which 
they contain must be borne in mind. (See Alcohol Table). 

It will be observed that the totals of the corresponding' 
columns of the analyses are nearly the same in all the 
diet tables, showing the important fact that all the essentials 
of a normal diet may be equally secured in a diet that i& 
simple and cheap and in one that is complicated and expen- 
sive. 

In all diets Salt must be used and in those which do 
not include Potatoes some other Potash-vegetable or 
Fruit or Cresses or Lime or Lemon juice must be taken. 



54 



NORMAL DIET TABLES. 



No. I. 



Liquid. 

fluid 
ozs. 



5 
z6 

z6 
»7 



54 



Dry. 



ozs. 



6 

4 

10 

8 

a 

2| 



35 



Food for 24 hours. 



Meat, Poultry, or Game 

(cooked) 
Fish . 
Bread 
Potatoes 
Rice . 
Sugar 
Butter 
Milk . 
Coffee 
Tea • 
Water 



Water 


Plastic 


ozs. 


ozs. 


3*97 
319 


1*35 
•66 


4'20 


I'OO 


5-81 
•18 


•14 

•10 


.*•• 


.... 


• ••. 


.*•• 


4'34 


•25 


1577 


.... 


15-95 


.••■ 


17- 


-"- 


70-41 


350 



Fat. 



ozs. 



•53 
•03 

•07 
•01 

• ••• 

250 
•17 



Saccha- 
rine. 

ozs. 



3*31 



In Plastic matter . 
Total 



4^53 
1-84 

1-63 

2-50 

• ••• 

•21 
•22 
•05 



10*98 



Carbon. 



ozs. 



•42 
•02 

i'93 
•76 

•73 
1*05 

1*85 

•22 

•10 

•02 



7'io 
1^89 



8-99 



No. 2. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 




Water. 


Plastic 


Fat. 


Saccha- 

• 


Carbon. 


fluid 




Food for 24 hours. 








nne. 




ozs. 


ozs. 




ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 






Meat, Poultry, or Game 














8 


(cooked) . 


5-29 


I^8o 


•71 


.... 


•56 




12 


Bread 








5*04 


I'20 


•08 


5*44 


2*32 




12 


Potatoes . 








871 


•20 


.•«• 


276 


1*14 




2 


Butter 








• ••• 


• ••• 


2*00 


■ ••• 


1*48 




2 


Sugar 








• ••• 


• ••• 


.... 


2'00 


•84 


5 




Milk . 








4'34 


•25 


•18 


•21 


•23 


16 




Chocolate . 








15*20 


•07 


•32 


•38 


•42 


16 




Tea . 








15-95 


• ••• 


• ••• 


•05 


•02 


16 


• 


Water 








i6-oo 


— 


— 


"•" 


"— 


53 


36 




70-53 


3-52 


3-29 


10*84 


7*01 






InPla 


Stic matter 


. • 


1*90 








Total 


a ■ 


8*91 



NORMAL DIET TABLES. 



5& 



No. 3. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 


Food for 24 hours. 


Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


Saccha- 
rine. 


Carbon. 


fluid 
















ozs. 


ozs. 




ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 




18 


Bread 


7*56 


I -80 


•12 


8-15 


3'47 




31 


Cheese . 


1-28 


1-07 


•89 


•08 


•70 




3 


Bacon 


76 


•25 


1-88 


• ••• 


1-48 




li 


Sugar 


• •• 


• ••• 


• ••• 


1-50 


•63 


5 




Milk 


4*33 


•25 


•17 


•21 


•22 


20 




Chocolate 


19-00 


•10 


•40 


•50 


•50 


20 




Tea. 


19*93 


• ••• 


• ••• 


.07 


•04 


20 




Water . 


20*00 


— 


— 


— 


-~ 


65 


26 




72-86 


3*47 


3-46 


10-51 


704 








In Plastic matter 


• • 

» • 


1-87 








Total 


8-91 



No. 4. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 




Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


Saccha- 

• 


Carbon.. 


fluid 




Food for 24 hours. 








nne. 




ozs. 


ozs. 




ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 




8 


Fish .... 


6-38 


i'33 


•06 


• ••• 


•05 




16 


Bread 








6-72 


1-60 


•II 


7-25 


3*09 




8 


Potatoes 








5-81 


•14 


• ••• 


1-84 


•76 




2i 


Butter 








• ••• 


• ••• 


2-50 


• ••• 


1-85 


10 




Milk . 








6-93 


•40 


•28 


•34 


•3& 


20 




Cocoa 








19-10 


•10 


•60 


•20 


•56 




Ij 


Sugar 








• ••• 


• ••• 


.•«. 


1*50 


•65 


as 




Water 








25-00 


— 


— 


— 




55 


36 




69-94 


3*57 


3*55 


11-13 


7*30 






InPla 


Stic matter 


193 
















Total 


. . 


923 



56 



NORMAL DIET TABLES. 



No. 5. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 


fluid 




ozs. 


ozs. 




16 




3 




4 




2 


10 




20 






I 


35 




63 


26 



Food for 24 hours. 



Bread . 
Peas . 
Bacon 
Cheese 
Milk . 
Coffee 
Sugar 
Water 



Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


672 


I '60 


•II 


•41 


•65 


•04 


I-I4 

•73 
6-94 


•33 
•61 

•40 


2-50 

•51 
•28 


1971 


• ••• 


• ••• 


35*oo 


— 


— 


7065 


3*59 


3*44 



In Plastic matter 



Saccha- 
rine. 

ozs. 



Carbon. 



ozs. 



7*25 
1*40 

• ••• 

•05 

•34 

•28 

1. 00 



10-32 



Total . 



3-09 

•65 

1-98 

•40 

•36 

•13 
•42 



7*03 
1*94 

8-97 



No. 6. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 




Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


Saccha- 


Carbon. 


fluid 


1 


Food for 24 hours. 








rine. 




ozs. 


ozs. 




ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


40 




Milk .... 


34-68 


2-00 


1^40 


1-68 


I -80 




4 


Rice .... 


.36 


•20 


•02 


3-26 


1-46 




3 


Eggs (two) 


2-15 


•45 


•32 


• ••• 


•26 




2h 


Sugar 


• ■•• 


• ••• 


• ••• 


2-50 


1*05 




I 


Butter 


• ••• 


• ••• 


i-oo 


• ••• 


•74 




9 


Bread 


3-78 


•90 


•06 


4-08 


1*74 


30 




Water 


3000 


— 


— 


— 


— 


70 


I9i 




70-97 


3*55 


2-8o 


11-52 


7-05 








In Plastic matter 




1*92 






1 


Total 


8-97 



NOBMAL DIET TABLES. 



57 



No. 7. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 




Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


Saccha- 


Carbon. 


fluid 




Food for 24 hours. 








rine. 




ozs. 


ozs. 




ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 




20 


Bread 


8-40 


2-00 


•14 


9'06 


3*86 




3, 


Eggs (two) 


•21 


•44 


•32 


• ••• 


•26 




i| 


Butter 


.... 


• ••• 


1-50 


• ••• 


i^ii 


20 




Milk .... 


17*34 


i-oo 


•70 


•84 


•go 


20 




Cocoa 


19*10 


•10 


•60 


•20 


•56 




1 


Sugar 


• ••• 


• ••• 


• ••• 


75 


•31 


25 




Water 


25-00 


— 


— 


— 


— 


65 


251 




70-05 


3*54 


3-26 


10-85 


7*oo 








InPla 


Stic matter 




1*91 






Total 


8-91 



No. 8. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 




Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


Saccha- 


Carbon. 


fluid 




Food for 24 hours. 








rine. 




ozs. 


ozs. 




ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 




8 


Rice .... 


•72 


•40 


•03 


6*54 


2*93 




71 


Eggs (five) 


5'40 


i^ii 


•80 


• ••• 


•65 




2h 


Sugar 


•••• 


.... 


«•.. 


2^50 


1*05 




i| 


Butter 


• ••• 


.... 


1*25 


.... 


•92 


40 




Milk .... 


34-68 


2'00 


i^40 


1-68 


I -80 


30 




Water 


30*00 


— 


— 


... 


— 


70 


19 




70*80 


3-51 


3-48 


10^72 


7*35 








In Plastic matter 




1^89 








Total 


9.24 



58 



NORMAL DIET TABLES. 



No. 9. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 




Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


Saccha- 


Carbon. 


fluid 




Food for 24 hours. 








rine. 




ozs. 


ozs. 




ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 




9 


Flour. 


1-13 


1-28 


.09 


6-28 


2-82 




If 


Suet .... 


• ••• 


• ••• 


175 


«... 


1-38 




3 


Sugar 


• ••• 


• ••• 


..•• 


3*oo 


1-26 




6 


Eggs (four) 


432 


•88 


-64 


■ ••• 


•52 


27 




Milk .... 


23-41 


1*35 


•94 


1*13 


I-2I 


42 




Water 


42*00 


... 




... 


— . 


69 


19I 




70-86 


3-51 


3-42 


10-41 


7-19 








In Plastic matter 


• • 

• • 


1-89 








Total 


9-08 



No. 10. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 




Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


Saccha- 


Carbon. 


fluid 




Food for 24 hours. 








rine. 




ozs- 


ozs. 




ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 




16 


Oatmeal . 


2-14 


2-40 


•93 


8-51 


4-46 


22 




Milk .... 


19-07 


I-IO 


77 


•90 


.99 




li 


Butter 


• ••• 


•••• 


175 


.... 


1-30 




1 


Sugar 


• ••• 


••*• 


.... 


. 75 


•32 


49 




Water 


49-00 


... 


— 






71 


18J 




70*21 


3*50 


3*45 


10-16 


7-07 








In Plastic matter 


• • 

• • 


1-89 








Total 


8-96 



BREAD DIKT AND TYPHUS FEVER. 



59 



No. II. 



Liquid. 

fluid 
ozs. 


Dry. 
ozs. 


Food in 24 hours. 


Water, 
ozs. 


Plastic, 
ozs. 


Fat. 
ozs. 


Saccha- 
rine. 

ozs. 


Carbon, 
ozs. 


60 


as 

3l 

2 


Bread 
Cheese 
Butter 
Water 


10-50 

i-i8 

• ••• 

6o*oo 


250 
i-oo 

• ••• 


•17 

•83 

2-00 


"•33 
•08 

• ••• 


4-82 

•65 

1-48 


60 


3oJ 




7168 


3'50 


3*00 


11*41 


6-95 


In Plastic matter 


1-89 










1 


Total 


• • 


8-84 



In the following letter published during the prevalence of 
Typhus fever in the Metropolis, I called attention to 
the mischief which may accrue from neglecting even one of 
the essentials of a Normal diet. 

BEBAD DIET AND TYPHUS FEVBE. 

TO THE EDITOR OF " THE DAILY TELEGRAPH/' 

Sir, — ^The folly of the man who built his house upon 
the sands is familiar to all the world j but there is a parable 
of a folly even greater than his. A people, knowing that 
a tempest was approaching, left out the mortar and the 
girders from the houses that they were building, and when 
the tempest came, and the winds blew upon the houses, 
they crumbled to pieces before the storm. 

It will hardly be believed that such an act as this is being 
performed at the present hour in the most enlightened 



60 BREAD DIET AND TYPHU3 PBVBB. 

city of Christendom, under the eyes of scientific and learn- 
ed men, in the purest innocence and good faith^ and in 
the name of charity. Yet such is the plain truth. 

Typhus fever has made its appearance in the houses of 
the half-starved poor of this metropolis. It is a contagious 
disease, but requires a particular soil to insure its fructifi- 
cation. Hence, out of any number of persons exposed to 
its poison, those suffer from the disease whose bodies 
present the most appropriate soil, and it proves especially 
fatal to those who are most strongly predisposed to its 
attack. It is well known to pathologists that in those 
who die of typhus all the tissues of the body, and the 
blood itself, are found to have lost their plasticity. Loss 
of plasticity in the body, and general want of vital force, 
constitute the characteristics of the soil in which the seed 
of typhus is sure to fructify. It would seem, then, but 
the most obvious common sense, that wherever the seed 
of typhus is known to be lurking every possible effort 
should be made to secure that it shall find no appropriate 
soil — ^that no human bodies deficient in plasticity shall be 
at hand. Yet what is the real state of the case ? Typhus 
fever follows in the track of want. It fixes on some 
household where the effects of want are rife — ^i. e. where 
the inmates are reduced to the last extreme of poverty, 
and as a consequence are depending upon parish reUef. 
Such a household is almost sure to be closely associated 
with others of the same class — depending upon parish 
relief. This parish relief means bread. 

The seed of typhus, then, is scattered amongst a com- 
munity subsisting upon bread. Now the houses in the 
parable, built up without mortar or girders, are the ana- 
logues of the human bodies built up out of bread. They 
have lost plasticity, and when the seed of typhus falls 
upon them, it takes root and fructifies, and they crumble 



BBEAD DIET AND TYPHUS FEVER. 61 

to pieces before the storm of sickness. It is hardly possi- 
ble to maintain the body in health upon bread alone. A 
long study of the composition of food, in relation to health, 
warrants me in making this assertion ; and I feel bound, 
in the cause of humanity, to call attention to this fact at 
the present moment, when the winter is at hand, and the 
poor of this city are threatened with such a scourge as 
typhus fever. 

No food can maintain health in an adult, unless the 
average allowance for twenty-four hours yields to analysis 
from 3 to 4 oz. of plastic material, from 2 to 3 oz. of fat, 
and from 8 to 10 oz. of saccharine material. (See 
Essentials of a Normal Diet). Compare this with the 
composition of bread. At least 32 oz. of bread must 
be not only eaten but assimilated in order to obtain 
3 oz. of plastic material, the smallest amount which can 
be accepted as necessary to supply the daily waste of 
tissue. This assimilation cannot take place without a 
certain proportion of fat, which fat is not suppKed in the 
necessary quantity by the bread, and no other source of 
supply is provided by the parish relief. It thus becomes 
evident that all those poor creatures who are entirely 
dependent upon bread for their existence are specially 
prepared for the reception of typhus, and not less specially 
prepared for its fatal issue. 

Setting every other consideration aside, then, and taking 
simply the ground of economy, it is a frightful extrava- 
gance of the funds of a parish, not less than of its life, to 
issue rations of bread only to the inhabitants of districts 
where typhus fever is rife. Immediately a patient is stricken 
with typhus the medical officer must call for wine, brandy, 
beef-tea, and the like, to the consternation of the board 
of guardians ; and after all this there will probably come 
at last the expense of burial. So that every case of typhus 



62 BREAD DIET AND TYPHUS PEVBR. 

is a drain on the parish funds far greater than would have 
been made by supplying the extra food necessary to pre- 
vent it. If then the spread of typhus is to be checked, 
instead of encouraged — ^if it is to be rendered less fatal 
when it occurs, instead of more fatal — rations containing 
the proper elements of nutrition in their proper proportions 
and quantities must be secured to every member of a 
family in which one individual is affected with typhus, 
and also to all those persons who are associated with the 
infected household. 

There is considerable difficulty in selecting diets which 
combine cheapness and simplicity with the essential 
chemical composition, and a form which the stomach will 
tolerate. But the two following will be found to fulfil all 
these conditions, so far as it is possible to do so without 
the introduction of meat j and in one of them bread is 
given in the largest quantity consistent with health : — 
1. Allowance for twenty-four hours : Bread, 25 oz,; cheese, 
2 oz.; butter, suet, or dripping, 2 oz. These yield to 
analysis : Plastic material, 3*1 oz. ; fat, 2*3 oz. ; saccharine 
material, ]1*4 oz. — 2. Allowance for twenty-four hours: 
Oatmeal, 16 oz. ; milk, h pint; butter, suet, or dripping, 
1 oz. These yield to analysis : Plastic material, 3*0 oz. ; 
fat, 2*3 oz. j saccharine, 9*0 oz. To each of these diets 
must be added limejuice or some land vegetable, salt, and 
a free supply of pure water.* — I am. Sir, yours, &c., 

M.D. 
London, Dec. 15. 



* The attention of those who visit the poor is particularly requested 
to these Diets. 



CHx\PTER V. 

Fermented Liquors. — Acid and sugar in spirituous liq- 
uors — Absolute alcohol and proof spirit — ^Alcohol 

TABLE showing THE ANALYSIS OP SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS 

Effects op alcohol in disease. 



ACID AND SUGAR IN SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS. 

It is important to remember that although a fluid 
may contain much acid and therefore be unfit for some 
stomachs, it will not generate acid if it is free from saccha- 
rine matter^ whereas a fluid containing saccharine matter 
will generate acid although it may not contain any. 



ACID. 



Proceeding from the least acid wine to the most acid 
we have Sherry, Port, Champagne, Claret, Madeira, Bur- 
gundy, Rhine wine. Moselle. The least acid fluids ex- 
amined were Geneva and Whisky; then Rum, Brandy, 
Ale, Porter, Stout; the wines were all more add than 
the malt-Uquors.^' 

'^ The nature of the acid was not absolutely determined, 
but a volatile acid distils over from wine, which is not 
acetic acid ; and the action of polarised light shows that 
tartaric acid is seldom present, hence the fixed acid is 
most probably racemic, and perhaps malic acid.^' 



64 ABSOLUTE ALCOHOL AND PEOOP SPIRIT. 



SUGAB. 

" I found no Sherry, Port, Madeira, or Champagne that 
did not contain more or less uncrystalUsable sugar ; (two 
samples of Sherry excepted, which were free from sugar.) 
I met with no Claret, Burgundy, Ehine, or Moselle wine, 
(excepting only one sample of Sauterne,) which was not 
free from every kind of sugar. Usually spirits contain 
no sugar ; but one specimen of genuine French brandy 
had some cane-sugar, added to it. All kinds of Ale, Por- 
ter, and Stout contain much glucose [grape-sugar] . Hard 
cider, I found also to be perfectly free from sugar. Sweet 
cider contained uncrystalUsable sugar.'^ 

'^ The fluids examined may be arranged in the following 
order, commencing with those which contain no sugar^ 
and ending with the most saccharine : 

'^Geneva, Bum, Whiskey, Claret, Burgundy, Bhine^ 
Moselle. These have no sugar. Brandy, Sherry, Madeira^ 
Champagne, Port, Cider, Porter, Stout, Malmsey, Ale, 
Tokay, Samos, Paxarete, Cyprus." {From the Appendix 
to " The Chemistby of Wine," by G. J. Mulder. Edited 
by H. Bence Jones, M.D., P.E.S., pp. 381-3.)* 

It will be seen from the following Alcohol Table that 2*26 
fluid ounces of Proof spirit — contain 1 ounce avoirdupois of 
Absolute alcohol and that the other articles in the table con- 
tain less and less alcohol as the Ust descends until it finish- 
es with London Porter, of which, 35'6 fluid ounces contain 
only 1 ounce avoirdupois of absolute alcohol. 

For directions as to the quantity of alcohol to be taken 
during health and the extent to which it ought to be di- 
luted see p. 9. 

* On the subject of Wines the reader is advised to refer to Mr. J. 
Denman's little book " What to drink," published by Longmans* 



65 



ALCOHOL TABLE. 



The weight of Absolute Alcohol (spec. grav. '796 at 68^ Fht) and of solid dissolved, in mea$ured 

quantities of Spirituous Liquors. 

^"^"^"""■"^^"■^■"""T^nnolumn 

shows the 
quantity by 



SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS. 
(For Acid and Sugar, see p. 25). 






-Proof Spirit 

Whisky . 

Brandy . 

Rum . . 

Arrack 

VGin . . 



CO 
H 



Roussillon . . . . 

Sherry 

Cape Maderia . . . 
South African Port . 

Port 

Bucellas 

Marsala 

East India Madeia . 
Frcntignac . . . . 

Champagne .... 

Hock ...... 

Hungarian Red Voslau 
Burgundy .... 

Moselle 

Claret 

Sauteme .... 
Hungarian White Ne 
. szmely .... 



} 



Cider 



(0 

o 

< 






Ale, Burton, Bass, 84s. 
11 i» 605. 

Pale ,. 605 

India (Gardner, 
X 54s.) . . 

Scotch 
Bottled- (Edin.) 

Pale . 
" Ei^htpenny" 
Family 15 gallon 
" Fourpenny" . 



It 

tf 

»» 



Stout, Dublin, (bottled). 
,, London . 



V Porter, London 



measure of 
each Spiritu- 
ous Liquor 
which con- 
tains 1 OZ. 
AVOIRD.ofI 
absolute Al- 
cohol. 



Fid. OZ. 
2*26 
2*6 
2.7 

2-8 
3*0 
3*2 



6-4 


8-6 


6.6 


IO*2 


6.8 


II'O 


6.8 


lO'O 


6.9 


IO-2 


7*3 


11*2 


7*5 


117 


7*6 


ii'3 


9*0 


7-8 


12*6 


11*3 


13*4 


20'4 


14-1 


21*2 


15*2 


23*8 


15*2 


23*3 


16*3 


23*4 


19*0 


27*2 


ZQ'O 


28-8 



64-0 



12*5 

14.2 
19*0 

23*0 

Z9'b 

250 
227 

24*9 
25-4 



20*8 
21-5 



35*6 



1 OS. 

avoir, of 
Carbon 
is con- 
tained 
in fluid 
ozs. 



4*3 
5*o 
5-0 
5*3 
5-8 
5*5 



40.0 



g-o 
130 

17-5 

280 

13-1 

20-5 
22*2 

22*0 
230 



167 

iS-g 



26*6 



One Imperial Pint 
contains. 



Alcohol. 

ozs. 
avoird. 



8-8 
7*6 

7-4 

7*1 
6-6 

6*3 



3*1 
30 

2'9 
2*9 
2*9 

27 
2-6 

2*6 
2'2 
1-6 

1*5 

1*4 

1*3 

1*3 
1:2 

I'O 
I'O 



•5 



1-6 
1*4 

1*0 

•9 

1*0 

•8 

•9 

•8 

•8 



•9 
•9 



Extract. 

ozs. 
avoird. 



•I 
•2 
•2 

•I 

•9 



17 

i*o 

7 
I'l 

I'l 

•9 

. '9 

I'O 

3*5 
2-3 

•5 
•5 
•4 
•4 
•5 
•5 

•4 



•8 



3*4 

2*0 

1-5 
•6 

2*4 

1*4 
I'l 

1*2 
1*1 



17 

1*5 



1*2 



Carbon. 

ozs. 
avoird. 



4-6 

4-0 

40 

3-8 

3*4 
3*6 



2*3 
2*o 
1-8 

2'0 
2*0 

I -8 
17 
17 

2*6 

1-8 

I'O 

•9 
•8 

•8 

•8 

7 
7 



2'2 

1-5 
I'l 

7 

1*5 

I'O 

•9 

•9 

•8 



Quantity per 
cent. 



I'2 
I.I 



•8 



Alcohol. 

Mea- 
sure. 



56'© 
48*3 
47'i 
45*0 
41-4 

39*8 



I9'6 

I9'2 

186 
186 
i8'5 
17*2 
i6'9 
i6'5 
14*0 
iO'4 

9*5 
8*9 
8*3 
8*3 
8'o 

6-6 
6'6 



3*o 



lO.I 

8*9 
6-6 

5*5 

6.6 

50 

57 
5*4 

5'2 



6'i 
5*9 



3*7 



Extract. 



Weight. 



'6 
I'2 
I'l 

•4 

4*5 



8'o 
4-6 

3*5 
5-6 

5*5 
4*4 
4*4 
4-8 
i6*i 

II'O 

2*5 

2*5 

I '8 

2*0 

2-5 

2*3 

1-8 



37 



157 
9'6 

7*0 
3*0 

11-4 

6-6 

5*4 
57 
5'3 
8-2 
6*9 



5:6 



20 Fluid oz« = 1 Imperial pint (measure). 16 oz. avoird. = 1 Pound (weight). 

F 



66 



ON ALCOHOL IN DISEASE. 

{Leading Article from the Lancet. Jan. 1st., 1870, re- 
ferred to at p. 9.) 

" After a great many fluctuations, professional opinion 
upon the question of alcohoKc stimulation in disease 
appears to have recently achieved some real progress 
towards the establishment of satisfactory principles. There 
are still very wide divergencies between different authori- 
ties, and we fear that there is still a good deal of extreme 
and irrational practice, both in the direction of excessive 
stimulation, and of the opposite fault of an imreasonable 
fear of the remedy. But it seems to us that the outlines 
of a greatly improved knowledge, both of the therapeutic 
powers, and the capacity for mischief which alcohol 
possesses, may now be discerned. 

In the first place, as regards acute diseases attended 
with febrile phenomena, three things are tolerably plain. 
The first is, that alcohoL when it acts well, acts as an 
antiphlogistic stimulant ; that is to say, it lowers abnor- 
mally high temperature, it reduces the frequency of the 
pulse, and, while raising nervous power, it calms those 
disturbances of the nervous system which attend, if they 
are not caused by, the elevated temperature of the blood 
in pyrexia. The second great fact is, that there are the 
utmost differences between different pyrexial patients 
as to their capacity for receiving benefit in this way; that 
a large number of persons, especially among the young, 
and previously robust, do best without any alcohol ; and 
that among those to whom it is beneficial, there are some 
for whom three ounces of wine per diem is fully the 
physiological and therapeutical equivalent of twenty-four 
ounces given to another and smaller class of patients ; and 



ON ALCOHOL IN DISEASB. 67 

that nothing but careful tentative use of the remedy can 
tell, in any particular case, whether it is needed, and, if 
so, in what quantities. In short, that all generalisations 
to the effect that you must, or must not, give wine by 
ounces, or by bottles, in fevers or in inflammations gene- 
rally, are worthless and misleadiug. The thirS settled 
fact is this, that it is often in those cases where alcohol 
used (on purely theoretical grounds) to be thought most 
dangerous-^viz., in cases with very high temperature and 
flushed face — that it produces its best effects ; and that to 
pour large quantities of stimulants into a fever patient 
simply because he is pale, and has a small pulse, is an 
unwarrantable proceeding. 

The above are certainties, and the following are prohahiU 
Hies. 

It is probable that alcohol owes part of its influ- 
ence in fevers to an antiseptic agency, by which it 
destroys the activity of certain bodies — call them or- 
ganisms, or not, as you please — ^by means of which 
the contagium sets up the febrile disturbance within the 
blood. In the case of inflammation, it is probable that 
alcohol, when it acts well, does so in part because it stimu- 
lates the sympathetic and contracts the arterioles, and in 
part interferes with the migration of blood-corpuscles 
through the vascular walls, as Binz and his pupils have 
shown that quinine can also do. It is probable that so 
far as alcohol can be appUed to these purposes within the 
organism, it is of unmixed benefit. And there is much 
reason to believe that the singular differences between 
different individuals, as to the quantity of alcohol they can 
bear, depend on some unexplained difference in the res- 
pective rapidity with which alcohol is oxidised in the blood 
in different persons. For it is now known with certainty, 
on the one hand, that nearly the whole, even of a poisonous 

f2 



68 ON ALCOHOL IN DISEASE. 

dose^ is always oxidised in the body, and on . the other 
hand, that the presence of large quantities of unchanged 
alcohol for any length of time in the blood, inevitably poi- 
sons the nervous system. The antiseptic action, and the 
influence on the migrative tendency of the corpuscles, are 
most likely produced immediately that the alcohol min- 
gles with the blood ; it probably depends on the subse- 
quent progress of oxidation whether the general effect 
on the patient will be good or bad. One thing is certain : 
if signs of narcotism — ^i.e., paralysis of the nervous sys- 
tem-are produced, ihe alcohol is doing harm and must 
be immediately diminished or stopped. 

As regards chronic diseases, we are sorry to observe 
that there is very much less of intelligent progress in 
medical opinion than in the case of acute diseases. It is 
much to be regretted that a large number, even of highly- 
educated pra<;titioners, wiU persist in acting on the as- 
sumption that in non-febrile diseases the amount of alcohol 
to be administered ought to be measured by the degree 
of debility, merely as such. The direct and very mis- 
chievous corollary of this is the practice, unfortunately 
daily increasing, of prescribing stimulants with lavish 
profusion in those numerous nervous affections to which 
weakly persons (more especially women) are prone. It 
is OUT duty, as medical journalists, to raise our voice to 
the utmost against this tendency. We are no bigots 
against alcohol ; and we are heartily sick of the unthinking 
abuse which has been lavished on what it is the fashion 
to call '^indiscriminate stimulation in acute disease.^' 
We declare our belief that the real mischief lies at the door 
of those who are indiscriminate (because they are unthink- 
ing and illogical) in their prescription of alcohol for 
debility^ merely as such. It is no figure of speech, but 
the literal truth, when we say that hundreds of neuralgic, 



ON ALCOHOL IN DISEASE. 69 

hysteric, and epileptic patients have been driven into 
dnmkeness or lunacy, or both, by the careless folly of 
advisers, who had no better reason for the prescription of 
large doses of alcohol than the fact that these diseases are 
attended with nervous weakness, as they undoubtedly are. 
The assumption involved — ^that so much ingested alcohol 
is necessarily so much added nervous strength-is so gross 
a fallacy that no one would assent to it if expressed in 
plain words. Yet we constantly see it acted upon. We 
repeat with all the energy of which we are capable, that 
it is a grave scandal and mischief that medical men should 
endanger in this serious way the powers of moral resistence 
of women and other weak persons while basing their prac- 
tice upon ideas that are illogical and untenable; and we 
trust that a reform in this respect will immediately be 
commenced.^' 



CHAPTER VI. 
Pat essential to healthy nuteition — Impoetancb of 

DISTINGUISHING BETWEEN SOLID AND LiQUID PaT — ^BaNT- 
INGISM^GBTTING PaT AND GETTING ,Th1N—- ANALYSIS OF 

Banting-diet, showing its eeboes and advantages. 

Pat is so essential to the maiiitenance of healthy nutri- 
tion, that the quantity contained in the daily food cannot 
be reduced much below the proportions given in the 
" Essentials of a normal diet'^ and in the diet tables, 
without great risk of damaging the health. 
When it is necessary for any special object to reduce the 
quantity of carbon taken in the aliments, this can more 
safely be done by diminishing the saccharine and amyla- 
ceous matters than the fats. 

The importance of fat in nutrition should be studiously 
borne in mind by those who construct diets for the poor, 
for pubUc institutions, or for the treatment of obesity, 
diabetes, fatty degeneration, dyspepsia, and the like.* 



ON THE IMPOETANCE OP DISTINGUISHING 
BETWEEN SOLID AND LIQUID PATS. 

Extract from an Article by the Author in the ''Chemical 

News, Sept. 4th, 1868.^ 



)} 



The peculiar isomeric modifications of which stearin and 
palmitin are susceptible, as shown by Du%, pointedly 
distinguish them from olein, which, so far as at present 

• See Index "on Bbeab Diet, and Tiphus Feyeb/' also "oh 
Diet in Disease/' 



ON SOLID AND UQUID FATS. 71 

known, has not this susceptibility ; a distinction wliicli is 
supported by the different behaviour of oleic acid towards 
chlorine and bromine, from that of stearic or margaric 
acids (Lefort), and by the different action of bile upon 
stearic acid and upon oleic acid (Marcet). 

But I think we ought to be prepared to learn that solid 
and liquid fats differ in some important physiological pro- 
perties, by the first general fact concerning the constitu- 
tion of all natural fats — viz., that they are mixtures in 
varying proportions of at least four different bodies, of 
which the melting points so widely differ — stearin melting 
at 144° P., palmitin at 114*8° P., margarin (probably a 
compound of stearin and palmitin) at 116° P., while olein 
remains fluid at 32° P. 

That the different degrees of solidity of fats depend 
upon the proportions in which the solid ingredients are 
mixed with olein, that olein has a peculiar power of dis- 
solving the sohd ingredients, and that the melting point 
of the mixture is thereby reduced, appear to me to be 
facts pointing in the same direction as the foregoing, 
especially when we remember that the aflBnity of oleic acid 
for oxygen is much greater than that of the other fatty 
acids. 

The fatty bodies obtained from warm-blooded animals^ 
are generally soUd at ordinary temperatures, whilst those 
from fish and from cold-blooded animals are Kquid. And 
when we consider the high melting points of the soUd fats 
as compared with the temperature of the body in warm- 
blooded animals, it is evident that the fat in them would 
be solid at the temperature of their blood, but for the 
mixture of olein, by which the melting point is reduced. 
Therefore the solidity or fluidity of the fat in living ani- 
mals is determined by the proportion of olein, which ia 
able to be mixed with the stearin, palmitin, and margaim 



72 . ON SOLID AND UQUID EATS. 

in each individual; and we are forced to conclude, either 
that it is of no importance whether the fats of the body 
during Kfe are in a soKd or liquid state, or that it is im- 
portant in what proportion the olein, stearin, etc., shall be 
combined. 

It has been already proved by experiments on the fat- 
tening of cattle, that the solidity or fluidity of the fat in 
the body varies with the food — that cattle fattened upon 
linseed cake, for example, accumulate, in their adipose 
tissue, an oily material of unusual fluidity (Draper), and 
that the consistence of butter is dependent upon the kind 
of food given to the animals from which it is produced 
(Fownes). 

The fat in animals is particularly liable to accumulate 
inmiediately beneath the cutis, in the omentum, and 
around the kidneys ; and the fat found in the latter situa- 
tion, where it is subject to a more uniformly elevated tem- 
perature than in the integument, is well-known to be of a 
more suety character — that is to say, it contains a smaller . 
proportion of olein, and has a higher melting point. 
These familiar facts point again to some importance in the 
animal economy, attaching to the melting point of the fat 
and the consequent degree of fluidity in which it should 
exist during life. 

'With regard to the fat of the integument — the principal 
deposit of adipose tissue in the body — it appears to me 
self-evident that the fluidity of this fat must vary with the 
temperature of the atmosphere in which the animal is 
placed ; to what extent this is the case, is, in my opinion, 
a most important subject for enquiry ; and although the 
experiments to determine the question are yet deficient, I , 
hope soon to be able to supply them. 

In conclusion, what I now suggest as a gej;i,eral proposi- , 
tion^ is this :— That;^ in all probabiHty, the stability of the . 



ON GETTING FAT AND GETTING THIN. 



73 



fats of the animal body in resisting too rapid oxidation is 
dependent upon the degree of solidity which they possess 
at the temperature of the living animal at any given time ; 
that alterations in external temperature may affect the 
solidity of the adipose tissue of the integument, and, con- 
sequently, its power of resisting oxidation; and that, 
therefore, in all probability, it is of great importance that 
the food of an animal shall contain a certain proportion of 
material capable of supplying the adipose tissue with solid 
fat. 



ON GETTING FAT AND GETTING THIN. 

On comparing the following analysis of Mr. Banting's 
diet for getting thin with my tables of normal diets it will 
be seen that it yields less than half the normal quantity of 
Carbon, leaving the deficiency to be obtained from the fat 
already stored up in the system, by the consumption of 
which the obesity is removed. The fault consists in this 
reduction of Carbon being obtained by diminishing the 
Hydrocarbons (fats) of the food instead of only cutting off 
the Carbo-hydrates (Sugar and Starch). 





Mr 


. Banting*s Diet. 


(approximate 


ANALYSIS.) 




Liquid. 


Dry. 


Food for 24 hours. 


Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


Saccha- 
rine. 


Carbon. 


fluid 


ozs. 














OZ8. 


avoird. 




ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 




T A 


Meat, Poultry, 














14 


Game, and fish . 


9-25 


3-15 


I '25 


t*** 


•98 




2 


Bread . 


•84 


•20 


•01 


•90 


•39 




a 


Vegetables, (green) 


179 


•02 


• ••• 


•15 


•07 




3 


Fruit . 


2*52 


• ••• 


• ••• 


•40 


•15 


z6 




Tea 


i6-oo 


• ••• 


• ••• 


• ••• 


•02 


14 




Wine (Claret) 


13-00 


— 


— 


— 


70 


30 


21 




43*40 


3*37 


I '26 


1*45 


2-31 








In Plastic matter 




1-82 






Tc 


»tal 


4*13 



74 



Extract from the Author^ 8 Letter ^' on Bantingism/^ written 

in 1864. 

It has happened to me to have to do with a great num- 
ber of persons who have tried Bantingism, and I do not 
hesitate to say that, up to the present time, Mr. Banting 
has done a great deal more good than harm. He has not 
brought forward a siugle new fact or new idea but he has 
had the luck, by zealously advertising a striking case of 
the effects of a plan of treatment long famihar to every 
medical man who understood physiology, to convince the 
pubKc of the immense influence on the animal organism of 
modifications in the quality of food — an influence, in the 
importance of which they did not half believe when urged 
upon them in the form of medical advice. 

Mr. Banting candidly told his readers that he was 
ignorant of the physiology of food, but they did not care 
for this while determined to try his plan, and hence it is 
not to be wondered at that while many have been bene- 
fitted many have done themselves harm. But the harm 
that has been done at present is not very great and is 
nothing to compare with the harm that will come, if, 
frightened by some striking case in which Bantingism has 
nearly cost a man his life, the public rush away from it as 
blindly as they rushed into it, and estabHsh for a time 
such a popular prejudice against systems of diet, that a 
medical man shall not be able to institute those rational 
and scientific regulations of diet which are often more im- 
portant than any other means of treatment in the manage- 
ment of disease The plain and simple facts of the 

case are these. 1. A certain amount of fat in the system 
is one of the most essential elements of health. 2. The 
quantity required by different individuals to maintain 



ON BANTINGISM. 75 

health differs. 3. The effects of a deficiency of the quan- 
tity actually required in any given organism are most 
disastrous, the tissues of the body and the brain and 
nerves being at length disintegrated to supply the ele- 
ments of fat which they contain. 4. When there is a 
quantity of fat in the body in excess of that necessary to 
health, it may be lessened with great and needed 
advantage, provided it be done slowly and cautiously, — 
allowing the nutritive functions of the system to accom- 
modate themselves gradually to the altered condition, — and 
most peremptorily stopping the loss of fat before it has 
amounted to a deficiency in the quantity necessary to 
healthy nutrition. Nothing is easier then to make a fat 
man thinner by altering his diet, but to do this safely and 
well is by no means devoid of difficulty, and in a large 
number of cases requires the greatest caution considera- 
tion and judgment on the part of those who rule the 
modifications in the diet of the patient. But there is no 
denying that, with such care and judgment, it can in most 

cases be done safely and advantageously 

Further information regarding fat, its importance in the 
organism, its relation to Disease, and the means of accu- 
mulating fat, will be found in my works '^ on Tubercu- 
losis" and " ON THE True First Stage op Consumption." 



CHAPTER VII. 

On the Diet of Sickness — ^Peinciples upon which to 
arrange the diet of disease — bules fob cabby- 
ing out these principles — examples of diets foe 

CoNSUMPHON, and FOR DiABETES. 



ON SOME PRINCIPLES OF DIET IN DISEASE. 

A lecture delivered by the Author at the Royal Hospital for 
Diseases of the Chest, April, 18.5, 

(Illustrated by Diet tables.) 

The subject which I have chosen for to-day's lecture is 
one upon which it would be very easy to write a large 
book, but which is very difficult to treat in a short lecture. 
I must oontent myself, therefore, with condensing what 
I have to say into a few statements of opinion, avoiding 
all attempts at discussion, and if I appear to deliver my 
views dogmatically, you will, I hope, understand that it 
is not because I feel at all inclined to dogmatise, but 
because I am pressed by the extent of the subject, and the 
narrow limits of our time. 

In my " Manual of Diet and Eegimen"* I have given 
" the Essentials of a Normal Diet^' for health. The ques- 
tion now is, how ought these to be modified in disease ? 
You will observe that these "Essentialsof a Normal Dief 
provide for the maintenance of healthy nutrition in a 

healthy adult man of average stature taking moderate 

* Now embodied in this work. 



€( 



ON SOMB PBINOIPLES OF DIET IN DISEASE. 77 

exercise/' and/for simplicity sake, it will be best to make 
"all our remarks apply to this '' adult man of average sta- 
ture^' under altered circumstances. 

The first aud leading principle of diet in disease is, to 
provide for the maintenance of healthy nutrition, under 
the peculiar alterations of circumstances attendant upon 
disease. In other words, the diet of disease should be as 
nearly that of health as the altered condition of the nutri- 
tive functions, and the altered conditions of the patient's 
life will allow ; the grand object being to keep up healthy 
nutrition of the whole organism. 

The true appreciation of this first principle, in its various 
bearings, will save. us from running into either of those 
extremes which at different times have disfigured medical 
practice. We shall not be led to starve our patients upon 
water-gruel, when they are craving for natural food; or 
to stuff them with beef-steaks and porter, when every 
instinct of their nature rebels against it. In fact, you 
may take.it as a very safe rule, that it is better cautiously 
to supply a patient with the kind and quantity of food 
that his stomach calls for, than to deny it to him without 
an unquestionably good reason for so doing. 

This may seem to you very much like letting a patient 
eat and drink what he pleases. But that is not at all what 
I intend to recommend. All I mean is this, and I wish 
particularly to impress it, that if we intend to interfere in 
the subject of diet, we must take care that we thoroughly 
understand what we are about ; and in order to do this it 
is necessary to keep well up in the following subjects : — 

1. The physiology of healthy nutrition* 

2. The composition of food, and the e^^entials of a 

normal diet. 

3. The physiology of disease. 

If we keep these matters well before ^e mindj and at 



78 ON SOME PETNCIPLKS OF DIET IN DISEASE. 

the same time keep our wits about us in watching the 
case under treatment, it is surprising what an immense 
deal of good may be done by interfering with the diet ; 
but not otherwise. 

We start, then, with this as our first principle, never to 
be lost sight of — that healthy nutrition is to be maintained, 
if possible, under all circumstances. And we assume that 
to do this in a healthy adult man of average stature, 
taking moderate exercise, the essentials of a normal diet, 
must be suppKed. 

It must be borne in mind that the proportions aud quan- 
tities of the different elements of this normal diet are 
arranged to meet the requirements of the different func- 
tions of the organism when in a healthy state of activity ; 
and it therefore follows, that if the activity of any of these 
functions is altered, the requirements will be altered ; and 
hence, the second general principle is this : — ^To alter the 
quantities and proportions of the elements of a normal 
diet to correspond with any alterations in the conditions 
of life. Thus, when a man is overtaken by sickness, and 
confined to his room or bed, the adult man taking mode- 
rate exercise becomes an adult man taking no exercise ; 
and the ingredients of his diet which were proportioned 
to his moderate exercise must now be proportioned to his 
no exercise ; and other alterations must be made in like 
manner to correspond with other altered circumstances, 
in addition to any that may be specially required by the 
nature of his disease. 

But I must remind you that, even when a man is con- 
fined to his bed, and precluded from taking any kind of 
exercise, he is still necessarily undergoing a considerable 
amount of muscular exertion, which must be provided 
for in his diet. For example, so long as life remains, 
such all-important muscles as those of respiration, and the 



ON SOME PRINCIPLES OP DIET IN DISEASE. 79 

heart itself, continue to act, and to require that their 
healthy nutrition shall be provided for by a supply of 
plastic materials in the food.* 

We come next to the long Kst of alterations of function 
which may be involved in the term '^ Sickness." And the 
third principle is — To alter the forms, quantities, and 
proportions of the elements of a normal diet, to meet the 
altered relations in the activity and condition of organs 
consequent upon disease. It is evident that, in order to 
carry out our first principle of maintaining healthy nutri- 
tion under all circumstances, it may be necessary, under 
some conditions, to reduce the quantity of every element 
of diet ; and also, under some circumstances, to alter the 
proportions of the different elements. This we see demon- 
strated in some of the lower animals by the phenomena 
of hybernation. When an animal gives itself up to its 
winter sleep, every vital function is reduced to its lowest 
degree of activity; and the animal is able to maintain 
healthy nutrition for a long period without taking any 
food at all; but as respiration has to be kept up more 
actively than the rest of the functions, a special store of 
carbon for this purpose is laid up beforehand in the body. 
Now, supposing a man to suflFer from any state of disease 
which Should pll Mm in the position, as regards his 
functions, of an aoimal during hybernation, it is clear 
that, while his whole diet must be reduced to a very low 
scale, the respiratory (heat-giving) elements must be sup- 
pUed in quantities out of the normal proportions as com- 
pared with the rest j because no supply of carbon is stored 
up in preparation for his iUness, as it is in the hyber- 
nating animal in preparation for its sleep. 

We see conditions, in many respects similar to these 

•See " Food, Heat, and Motion." 



80 ON SOME PRINCIPLES OP DIET IN BtSJlASE. 

in some stages of fevers, in which absorption, nutrition, 
and every vital function is at its lowest point consistent 
with life, respiration being the only one sufficiently active 
to call for any considerable supply of food. But here, 
of course, we must not lose sight of an element in the 
case not present in hybernation — viz., the existence of a 
poison, which by some means, natural or artificial, has to 
be eliminated or destroyed, and which may be keeping 
Bome fiinctions in activity, the requirements of which 
must be met. The precision with which we are able to 
do this in any given case, will depend upon the correct- 
ness of our knowledge of the nature of the poison, and of 
the organs concerned in the restorative process. Here, no 
doubt, we are often obb'ged to act in the dark, and to 
fiupply many ingredients which may not be lieeded, in the 
hope of furnishing among them that which is required, 
but which our ignorance prevents us from identifying. 
And we had far better, whenever our knowledge is at 
fault, act in this safe manner and supply much that may 
be useless rather than run the risk of witholding tha^t 
which may be essential to life. But, in the majority of 
cases, our knowledge will be sufficient for the emergency, 
if we keep in mind the general J)rinciples of action. 

The fourth principle is this : — ^To obtain rest for every 
organ while it is suffering under active disease, by re- 
moving from the diet such elements as increase its func- 
tions. These are conditions which it is not always easy 
to fulfil without deviating from our first principle. For 
example — ^in the case of diseased kidney — ^the healthy nu- 
trition of this organ requires a supply of albuminoid ma- 
terials, while its function is increased by any surplus of 
these materials in the organism ; and when its function 
is interrupted by disease, a proportion of albuminoids in 
the diet, necessary to tiie healthy nutrition of the organism 



ON SOMB FBIKCIPLES OF DIET IN DISEASE. 81 

generally, will be tantamount to an excess as regards the 
function of the kidney, and the accumulation of retained 
excretory matters will press injuriously upon the affected 
organ. In such a case other medical aids than diet must 
be brought to bear ; and while the albuminoids in the food 
are reduced as low as is consistent with healthy nutrition, 
some auxiliary organs which are not damaged must be 
stimulated for the time, to save the diseased part from 
undue pressure upon its functions. 

A simpler, but stiU important principle, may be stated 
as the fifth, viz.: — In all alterations of diet, to avoid any 
unnecessary reduction in the number and variety of the 
forms in which food is allowed to be taken. This becomes 
especially necessary to be borne in mind when dieting the 
dyspeptic, who are often still engaged in the active avoca- 
tions of business and of society while under medical treat- 
ment. To treat such cases by cutting off from the daily 
bill of fare first one article and then another, till the food 
consists only of two or three permitted forms, is to des- 
troy the appetite and the digestive powers by monotony 
of diet, and to depress the spirits of the patient by a con- 
stant series of petty denials. This plan of dieting can 
only be regarded as the resource of ignorance ; because an 
enlightened view of the case will discover some particular 
defect in the function of digestion or assimilation which 
will at once indicate the form or element of the food which 
is to be avoided ; and thus it will be only necessary to 
cut off those articles which specially represent this ele- 
ment, or simply to alter the forms in which they are pre- 
sented to the stomach. (See p. 5.) 

The sixth principle is also of great importance, viz. : — 
When it is necessary to remove from the food any of the 
essentials of a normal diet, to aim at selecting that which 
will answer the desired end with least danger to the nutri- 

G 



82 ON SOME PRINCIPLES OF DIET IN DISEASE. 

tion of the vital organs. For example, if it is necessary 
for any special purpose to diminish the heat- giving ele- 
ments of the diet, it is safer to remove the carbo-hydrates 
than the hydro-carbons, because the latter not only supply 
carbon for the evolution of animal heat, but aro essential 
to the nutrition of the nervous system, and of the albu- 
minoid tissues generally.* 

The seventh and last principle which I shall give in 
this Lecture is of very general application : —When it is 
desired to increase the normal nutrition of a tissue or organ, 
we must not only supply it freely with the special materials 
requisite for its development, growth, and repair, but at the 
same time call upon it for the performance of its normal 
functions — over-fed idleness insures morbid nutrition, not 
healthy life. 

In the next place I will give you a few rules which 
may assist you in carrying out these general principles — 

Rule 1. — ^When the power of appropriating any essen- 
tial ingredient of a normal diet is lost to the organism, 
the lost ftmction must be substituted by some artificial 
process, or the ingredient in question must be withdrawn 
from the diet till the normal function is restored. In 
obedience to this rule you see me at this hospital adminis- 
ter pancreatic emulsions of fat to patients, who have lost 
the power of assimilating fat without this artificial assist- 
ance, while I adopt all practicable means of restoring the 
normal function.t 

Eule 2. — Is inseparable from the first, and it is this : — 
No essential of a normal diet must be withdrawn without 
an attempt being made either to supply to the organism 
in some other way the ingredients of which it is deprived, 
or to suspend those functions which call for a supply of 
this ingredient. Thus, to take a simple illustration : — 
* See Fat. f See Diets for Consumption. 



ON SOME PRINCIPLES OF DIET IN DISEASE. 83 

Suppose the power of digesting meat to be lost through 
a deficient secretion of gastric juice, meat must be with- 
drawn from the diet till tbe lost function is restored, or 
else an artificial digestive fluid must be introduced ; or if 
it is impossible by these means to maintain the digestion 
of meat, the physiological ingredients of meat must be 
supplied in the form of some albuminoid solution ; or, 
finally, if this cannot be done, then those functions which 
principally waste the albuminoid tissues of the body must 
be placed as far as possible in a state of rest, muscular 
action must be suspended until the function is restored. 

Eule 3. — ^If an undue waste of any elements of normal 
nutrition is found to be going on in the organism, 
and the means remain of appropriating those elements 
from the food, they must be supplied in the food 
in quantities as much in excess of those proper to 
the normal diet of health as will be sufficient to supply the 
waste until it is stopped. This also may be illustrated by 
a very simple example. In Bright^ s disease of the kidney 
there is no loss of the power to appropriate the albuminoids 
from the food, whereas a constant loss of albumen is going 
on through the kidneys, which must be met by propor- 
tionate increase of the albuminoids in the diet. But in 
following this rule, in this particular case, it will be neces- 
sary to observe the precautions which I mentioned when 
speaking of the fourth general principle. 

Eule 4. — ^When through any defect in the organism, 
the elements of a normal diet are lost to nutrition if pre- 
sented in the usual forms, those forms must be changed ; 
but care must be taken that in the altered form all the 
essential elements of a normal diet are supplied in their 
proper quantities and proportions. Nothing can illustrate 
this better than the use of milk as a substitute for soUd 
or mixed foods in diarrhoea or sickness. 

^2 



84 ON SOME PBINCJFLES OF DIET IN DISEASE. 

Eule 5. — ^Has to deal with more complicated diflSculties. If 
such a defect exists in the organism that some of the essen- 
tials of a normal diet are misappropriated, so that the organ- 
ism is deprived of one or more of the normal elements of 
nutrition, and at the same time a disease is constituted 
out of the misappropriated food, then we have a double 
duty in interfering with the diet. First, the source of the 
disease must be stopped by withdrawing that part of the 
diet out of which it is constituted ; and, secondly, the ele- 
ments of nutrition thus removed must be suppUed by some 
other means or in some other form. 

Thus, in Diabetes the saccharine and amylaceous ele- 
ments of the diet are misappropriated ; they do not «erve 
their normal function of supplying carbon for the evolu- 
tion of heat, and by passing off through the kidneys they 
constitute an exhausting disease. It is necessary, there- 
fore, to stop the source of this disease by cutting off the 
saccharine and amylaceous ingredients of the diet till nor- 
mal nutrition is restored. But, in the meantime, as car- 
bon must be obtained by some means, it is taken from 
the fat stored up in the body so long as that lasts, and 
when it is gone, from the albuminoid tissues themselves, 
till the whole organism is disintegrated; unless at the 
same time that we cut off the starch and sugar, we in- 
crease the quantity of fat supplied in the food as much in 
excess of the proportion proper to a normal diet as shall 
fully supply the demand.* 

The modem dietetic treatment of Diabetes may be taken 
as a good example of the way in which increased know- 
ledge of the nature of disease and of the physiology of 
food enables us to act under what I have called the fifth 
principle of diet, viz., to avoid any unnecessasy reduction 
in the number and variety of the forms in which food can 

* See Diet for Diabetes. 



ON SOME PBINCIFLES OF DIET IN DISEASE. 85 

be taken. In former days the poor parched diabetic was 
forbidden to drink water lest he should increase his flow 
of urine ; now we are able to let him quench his thirst as 
much as he pleases, so that he takes nothing which con- 
tains starch or sugar ; and again, by preparing his articles 
of food in such a manner as to exclude the injurious in- 
gredients, and by selecting those which are known to 
contain them in the smallest quantities, or not to contain 
them at all, we are able to present the diabetic with a 
fairly tempting and varied diet, so that he is able to keep 
to it for months and years with comparatively little diffi- 
culty. (See p. 4.) 

la conclusion I shall venture to give you a sixth rule, 
which I call the ^^ golden rule,^^ as it relates to the carry- 
ing out of the first of our principles throughout all the 
difficulties involved in the rest. The ^^ golden rule" is 
this: — Never let a patient become weak through a de- 
fective diet if you can prevent it by any possible contri- 
vance; and if a patient has unavoidably become weak, 
never let him remain so, through any defect of diet, one 
hour longer than it is absolutely impossible to prevent. 

Other principles and rules I must reserve for future 
Lectures, when treating of special cases as they come 
before us. But I hope that you will find, when you come 
to put them to the test of practice, that the few which I 
have given you to-day will serve both your patients and 
yourselves many a good turn, if you will only bear in mind 
what I have endeavoured to impress ; that in order to 
carry them out satisfactorily you must keep up your know- 
ledge of your profession generally, and especially of the 
various subjects which I have enumerated, as essential to 
a proper understanding of the alterations of diet required 
in disease. 



86 



DIETS FOR CONSUMPTION AND FOR DIABETES. 

In the Diets for Consumption it is assumed that no fat 
is assimilated except that artifically pancreatised. 

In Table I. The required amount of carbon is supphed 
by an excess of carbo-hydrates. 

In Table II. The required amount of carbon is sup- 
plied by an excess of albuminoids. 

In Table III. The amount of carbon is kept low, be- 
cause it is only intended as a temporary diet 
to be used during periods of rest in a warm 
room. The arrowroot and some of the fat of 
the milk are pancreatised by mixture with 
the ^^ pancreatic emulsion.^^ 

In the Diet for Diabetes. Pancreatic Emulsion is 
added and Pepsine ordered to assist in the digestion of 
the large quantity of fat and of albuminoids, necessitated 
by the nature of the disease. 



87 



< 

O 

< 

o 

I 



I 

o 

H 
Oi 

IS 

S5 

O 

(^ 
O 

H 
(4 



■■" 


CO 








^™"" 




9 












O 
C u 


OOOOOQOOOQO 


o 








N po«o -^ Q »n o> Q ^ 


"^ 


• 


• 




O §0 


'"*• o> t^oo o> »n M o t^ 


PO 






6 
o 


Z2 


• •••••••• 

OmOOOONmO 


• 


• 


• 


^ 


5? 










c 
o 












• 










ja 


10 










u 


9 












O 

B 


N O N O N Q 

PO "*• t^ . rhvO *0 . . 


■8 


• 


• 




^ 


t^ »n o m H M 


• 


• 


• 




s 


bob ' b b b 


N 




















• 

•2 c 


NONOOOOOQO 


N 


m 


r^ 




S 2 


M ^00 00 TT f^ p P t^ 


m 


"^ 


o 




o-S 


m 


o 


«o 




» " 




• 


• 


• 




H ctf 


MNbbnbwMb 


H 


o 


o 




O 




H 




H 




• 












C 

is 


o o O O "+ o 

. PO "^ O ^KD . . 

moo op 00 p p ^ 




• 


• 




u 

CJ 


* V^ M M b M V ' 


Vh 








a 




H 








c/3 


























ThO 2 «o o Q 
PO t^ . .Ohm .6 


o 








• 

4-> 




• 


• 




tS 


mo t>. H o O 








C£4 


ooo M 


• 


• 


• 




• 


o o «o ooo 

m Q po . O o . . 

PO p M p p PO 


VO 










°S 


• 


• 




U9 


o 








Ot 




• 


» 


• 




S 


MHib 'Hbo 


•^ 










Hn 


HW 








• 

N 


VOOOOMMNVO 'N 


t^ 


• 


• 




O 


M 


PO 

• 


• 


• 










/vA-r» 


» 




• 

(0 

w 

9 
O 








CO 
» • JJ • • • 




m Non-pan- 
waste . . 


• 
• 
• 

G 

O 

43 




a 

O 

.2 


<u 

IS 


Cf 




o Fid. ozs. . 
's Food for Ii 
ceous Foods 
nted Liquors 
;atic Emulsio 


CO 

< 

o 


t Carbon fro 
tised Fats as 


U 

1 






-^ rt rt rt ^ 3 -S S y 
O Oi *J bD— « a3 ih I-. C3 


H 










CJ PQ fi4 CO ^ hj fe Ph e^ 






o 
H 



.F3 


*: 


^ 


^ 


f4 


ft 


od 


««-• 


1 


o 

•»3 


• w* 


d 


OQ 


• M 


»4 


P« 


o 


o 


A, 


d 


O 


o 


S 


• ft 


•» 


^ 


-♦3 


V 


» 


s 


P-H 





CJ 

• 


'€ 


>% 


M 


n3 


t>^ 


d 


na 


& 




u 


M 


P 


PQ 


W 


h- 


ch 


O 


O 


>> 


■4S 


a> 


i 


■a 


i 


a 


i 





o 


rt 


■•» 


*s 


as 


o 


f-n 


■4S 


eti 


a 

• p4 


S3 


& 


;^ 


ch 


f4 


O 


o 


h 


^ 




L4 


"§ 


o 


P 


rfl 


C« 


CQ 


<1 


1 


a" 


Pk 


•« 


*^ 


•4» 


O 


P 


1 


-2 


1 


o 


Pi 


bo 


03 




ed 


a 


rt 


•a 




o 


f4 


p 


-S 


a 




.5" 



88 



< 
I 

55 



[^ 3 
3 3 



^ §1 

CO 

jz; 
o 
u 

CO .2 

01) 



P4 

o 

eS 



» 



■3 



00 

O 

• G 

a o 

o 't; 

«£: ^z: 

c 
o 

t 

u 



n 

St 

o 

& 

s 



•3 C 

^5 



C 

•c 

u 
03 






CO 



O 



e 

o 



o 
o 



SO mo «o o 
2^ cr> p M t^ 



»o o o M »o r^ 

b b b b b c4 




H O O H O 



00 



O Q o o t^o o 

0» t^ ts. M ts. « M 



o o o o o o 



Q O 

»o O 
b b 






« o ur^g 



cngo 



O O "* 



fO fO ^»0 O^ 5» »0 t^ Th rh 
«ooo t^coN o^cr>^^ •^w 



mOOOhOMhhOhO 




O H 00 



|8^ 

o» t^OO 



00 



M M "^ « O O 



N O »OVO 

M CO »o m 

tN.00 o « 



o o 

O O 



O O O O O 



8s 

t^O 

b b 



88 



O CO m o Q 
_ H o N o o 
CO fO p p ;^ ;*• p 

MM* H b b 



H O 



00 O CO H CO •^O CO « vo 



« 



*^ 
o 
o 

O 



a 

(« 

o 
i-i 

o 

G 
O 



QQ 



O 
S 

O 



bfl-C 



n3 



Ih 

O 
o 



N 
O 



ii* 



CO 



o 



?i 3 



* c 

i2 3 3 

bflTS O 
« <U '13 



u 

C 
ci 



3; 


O 

H 


t^ 


"* 


« 


M 


H 





00 
ro 



I 



M 

ro 



CO 




8, 


• 


t^ 





9 



CO 

•J 

<: 

O 



ci 



o 


4-> 

on 


;z: 


S? 


a 


CO 

c« 

09 


c 
o 


t3 


ci 


TJ 


O 


CO 




• •H 


4-* 


<4J 


o 


(« 


3 


V 






Q 





c 
o 

•e 

ci 
CJ 

o 

ci 
*rt 

4-> 
O 

H 



fl-i 



I -a 



89 



Q 

D 
1-1 
b 

I 



1-1 

• 

O 
H 

:§ 

D 

CO 

O 
O 

P< 
O 
b 

CO 

H 
(xl 



• 

00 




^" 






g 










O 

-5 ^ 


o 

M 




1 


pi 


CO . 


^ 


1 b 


• 


•: z 










1 i 

« S 










"8 


i 


> • 


IS 


So 


M 


H 


1 , 


d 


1 


« 


C 


> 


• 

d 


z 










3| 


o 


S> 3- 


o 

M 


.Si 
o 


in 


CO t^ 

• • 

« O 


• 

00 


V 










«o 


C 


> 


^0 


3 




& : 


M 




• 


• 




« 


o 


CO 


^ 


00 


CO 












o 


c 


> 


o 


15 


ro 


^ 


1 Q 


m 


U4 


• 


c 

• 


« 


• 




CO 


c 


> H 


>* 


• 

u 

CO 


1 

• 


8 . 


i 

• 


a< 


CO 


c 


) 


-* 


K 


o 


c 


) d 


00 


o 


M 






M 








• 
• 

• 

* 

c 












o 












• ^ 












00 








O 




3 

a 


or 


> 






1 u 


•J 




pZi 


*J 




«< 




00 


1 


1 g 


H 
O 

H 






< 


ci 

i cu 





'd 

i 



-e ^ 



o o o 

• • • 

N N N 

o o o 



^1 

i^ 8 



o o o 



o eq 






90 



O 



•J3 



r 



b 



0> 



3 

3 (^ ^ h 
a o 



» < 



o 2 

H O 

• • 

o o 



I 

G 

6 o 2 2 

1m "^^ 



o o m o 

m o o « 
boob 



ON Q O O Q »n 

M o Q 00 invo 00 

»0 M O '«*• t^ N Th 

• • • • • • • 

O O H H O O H 



01 

«b 



I 



tMOao 
p 3 



vo o o vo 

o> t^ t>. « 
o o o o 



00 m 
a o 

M O 



CO 






Total 
Carbon. 


vo o mvo 
m po -^vo 
lOOO t^co 

• • • • 

M o o o 


00 r^ 
m M 

• • 

M O 


Q o »n o o 
Q 00 m\o N 
O ^ mw vo 

• • • • • 
M M O O M 


1 

• 

o 

M 


M 
VO 

• 

o 


CO 
CO 

• 

o 

H 



1 




(« . 




X V 


• • 


H C 




S-c 


• • 


CO 





o 



00 •* 

•* CO 
M « 



•8 






N O ""> O 

M H in to 

f^ M O N 

• • • • 

o o o o 



CO 

• • 

o o 



§o o o 
in <^ 00 
t>. POOO 

• • • • 

N O O M 



CO 

H 
H 

vb 



CO 



8 OOO 
00 M O 
00 CO CO CO 

H H H O 



VO o 
•n CO 
»n o 

• • 

CO O 



O O 
• Th lO 

O O 



6\ 






00 vo ro M vo CO 



N M CO CO 



Hei 




VO 




CO 





i2 

9 
O 

In 

a 

•o 
o 
o 

U4 



u 

O 



o 

G 

a 
ci 



S 

O 

o 

c 
o 



n3 
ci 



c 
ci 
t-i 



u 

o 
•a 
•a 
ci 



o o.Si 
o o ^j 



CO 

u 



G 

5 

o 

< 

c 
ci 

> 



T* • 



^•^ CO 

N 

* O 

V tn o -^ 
.y « S =3 

> bCta >^'^ 



c 
o 

CO 

g 



« «ij Ou 



?.y 



9 C 



CJ N 



« t^ C to 

■4-1 

*- u J? rt bfl ci 



*^ o to o 
C .bO u 








/-^^^-\ 




0) 




^ • 




o . 




■M 




u • 




• c 




•^N 




tl • 




a 




M di 




o *i 




C/3 ^ 




CO 


CO 


g rt 


•J 


O n3 


O 


n fr 
ucte 


H 


o»o 




^ V 




13 -« 




O 



ci 

^^ 

ci 

c 
o 

ll 

(« 
O 

■4-1 
O 

H 



9 
QQ 



el ? 
^ ca o o 

5l' 



00 >> 

00 w 9 

p « ► 



c^h 



» « pH 

3 of* » 
•r fl ► P 




^^ 



Si* -5 ® 

43 00 2 O 

J SI'' 



CHAPTER VIII. 

'* Amid all the dangers that threaten this Metropolis there is a sad cer- 
tainty more serious than anj one of them it is not disease but it is not 

health. It is a low state of vitality, of physical power, of mental energy, of 
enjoyment, and even of moral strength." — Times, August 4th, 1858. 

The Duties of Medical Men — ^The Interdependence up 
Diseases shewing the importance op Periodical 
Examinations — ANiEMiA and Fatty Degeneration 
AS Vestiges op Disease — ^Abnormal Physiological 
States — Conditions not recognised as disease but 

WHICH certainly ARE NOT HEALTH.. 



Selections from Lectures on the Germs and Vestiges 
OP Disease and on the Preve'ntion op the Invasion 
and Fatality op Disease by Periodical Examina- 
tions, delivered by the Author at the Royal Rosjpital for 
Diseases of the Chesty in 1861.* 

(From Lecture 6.) 

Gentlemen, we are all members of a ^practical profession. 
We have taken upon ourselves high and responsible du- 
ties, all culminating in action. So long as we choose to 
assume these duties in a profession, as yet so far from per- 
fection, we are not justified in spending our time in scien- 
tific investigations or speculations, unless they have for 
their end some practical application for the good of hu- 
manity. It is the hope of attaining such an end which 
has led me on in the design and labour of these Lectures* 

I proceed at once to lay it before you. 

In the beginning of the first Lecture, I asserted, that 

* Published by Messrs Churchill, New Burlington Street. 



92 ON THB DUTIES OF MEDICAL HEN. 

we are justified in practising the profession of medicine 
only in proportion as we believe in the articles of the fol- 
lowing creed : — 

1. That man may be the instrument through whom the 
invasion and progress of premature destructive changes in 
the human organism may be prevented or arrested. 

2. That man may be the instrument through whom the 
damaged organism may be more efficiently repaired. 

8. That man may be the instrument through whom the 
sufferings of the human being may be alleviated. 

In what sense the organism is capable of accompUshing 
these ends without the instrumentality of man^ I have 
shown you by numerous arguments and examples. I have 
also shown you the various modes by which it becomes 
deprived of this capability. The conclusion at which I now 
arrive is this, that man may be the instrument through 
whom the capability of accomplishing these ends may be 
preserved and restored to the organism. 

The manner in which man is to exercise this instru- 
mentality is the next point for our consideration. But 
I think we have almost reduced it to a necessary conclu- 
sion. For as we have plainly seen (in the previous lectures) 
that the organism is competent to take care of itself, pro- 
vided that it possesses a normal Vital force, and is sur- 
rounded by normal conditions of life ; and as we have also 
seen that the great causes of defect in the force, are the 
vestiges of disease and abnormal conditions of life ; and as 
we have also learnt that the diseases, from which the ves- 
tiges result, are invited, by defects of the foice ; and that 
when thus invited and received into the organism, they 
are capable of being disposed of without leaving vestiges 
behind, if the Vital force is free from excessive defect ; 
that thus these vestiges are due to defective force ; and 
as we have learnt that the earliest invasion of defects in 



ON THB DUTIES OF MEDICAL HEN. 93 

the force, upon which all the long and intricate succession 
of ills depend as a germ — as we have learnt, I say, that 
this state of germination exists at a period anterior to the 
manifestation of disease in its ordinary characters, and 
that it is to be found in the garb of slight impairments of 
the general health, the indications of which are more and 
more evasive and occult, the earlier the stage of germination ; 
and, finally, as we have learnt that it is in this occult and 
evasive stage of germination that the defect is most easily 
and m^st efficiently to he remedied ; I think you will agree 
with me in the practical conclusion at which I have arrived. 
This conclusion is — that the manner in which man is to 
exercise his instrumentality for the prevention of disease, 
the prevention of the vestiges of disease, and the preven- 
tion of fatality in disease, is to search out these earliest 
evasive periods, of defect in the physiological state, and to 
adopt measures for their remedy. This appears to me to 
be the highest, the most ennobled duty of the physician, 
calling for the most abstruse knowledge of the science of 
life, the deepest experience in disease, the keenest exercise 
of the perceptive faculties, the calmest, most far-sighted 
reasoning and the wisest judgment, — a duty as much 
■above the management of oAMte disease as to rule an em- 
pire is above fighting a pitched battle. 

Now, Gentlemen, I am perfectly convinced, from my 
own observation and experience in practice, that patients 
never think of consulting their doctors till these con- 
ditions of impaired general health have advanced far 
•enough to have been developed into some form of disease : 
that thousands and thousands of persons, believing them- 
fielves to be in health, are nevertheless undergoing these 
early, occult, and evasive stages of defect in the physio- 
logical state ; and that such persons may be considered to 



94 PERIODICAL EXAMINATIONS. 

be in health, not only by themselves, but by any one 
accustomed to associate with them. 

The only means by which to reach this evil and to ob- 
tain the good, would be for 'persons to submit themselves 
and their children to S'ystematic periodical examinations. 

Such examinations ought to include an inquiry into the 
family history, to leam the hereditary constitution ; into 
the personal history, to leam all the previous diseases that 
have been passed through, and the habits and vicissitudes 
of life ; into all the conditions of life surrounding the indi- 
vidual) into the condition of the organs and functions of 
the body ; into the state of the secretions and fluids of the 
body by analyses and microscopical examinations; and 
so forth. 

The examination should be reported in writing; and, 
after due consideration, such advice should be given as a 
careful judgment may dictate, for the future conduct, 
pursuits, and habits of the patient, with a view to correct- 
ing any defects or tendency to defects in the organism. 
Advice should also be given as to the means of removing 
any vestiges of disease that have been detected, or if they 
are not removable, advice as to the best way of overcoming 
their influence or of averting their increase. To this must 
be added precautions to be adopted in certain contin- 
gencies which, according to the judgment of the case, 
appear probable. 

If such a plan as I have here proposed were to be faith- 
fully and conscientiously carried out by the present and 
rising generation of well-educated studious medical men, 
immense benefit would be conferred wpon the puhlic. The 
next question is, then, what would be the efiect upon the 
profession in a pecuniary and in an ethical sense. With 
regard to the pecuniary question, it is only necessary to 
observe that of course I do not expect that any man in 



PERIODICAL EXAMINATIONS. 95 

good practice, whose time is profitably employed, could 
conduct such an examination and give such advice for the 
usual consultation-fee. Every man who attempts to fol- 
low out the plan, should require such a fee as might enable 
him to give the necessary time and consideration to every 
case. 

But this should in no way interfere with the power of 
the poor to participate in such a system. Every hospital 
and dispensary should institute a distinct department for 
the conduct of such examinations, and for giving the 
necessary advice. Every patient discharged from its 
wards should be submitted to this department before re- 
turning to the duties of life.* 

I have again and again referred in these Lectures to the 
numberless anomalous symptoms, the pains, discomforts, 
nervous disturbances, etc., etc., which affect persons in 
abnormal physiological states, and which increase in their 
severity, obviousness, and number, as the states of health 
become more and more degraded, and the occurrence of 
some acute disease becomes more imminent. I have pointed 
out to you that these are the states of health which fill 
our consulting-rooms and the out-patient departments 
of hospitals and dispensaries. 

In further confirmation of my statements on this point I 
may remind you of some apposite observations by Sir Henry 
Holland on the subject of symptomatic complaints. In his 
Medical Notes a ndRcfledionshe says, speakingof gouty blood 
— *' Irregular actions of the heart, hypochondriacal depres- 
sion, as well as the more common symptoms of dyspepsia 
and disordered secretions, frequently antecede by months 

* For details of the mode of carrying out the Examinations at 
public CharitieS; see a paper by the Author read at the Guildhall, 
June 1862. '^Transactions of the National Association for the promo- 
tion of Social Science." 



96 PERIODICAL EXAMINATIONS. 

the jGrst appearance of gout in the extremities, and occa- 
sionally give serious alarm even to those who look with 
medical eyes upon these ambiguous cases/' — (p. 246, 3rd 
edition.) 

'' Modem observation has led us to recognise some of 
these relations (of gout with local or constitutional dis- 
orders) under the names of gouty headache, gouty ophthal- 
mia, and gouty bronchitis. My own experience would lead 
me to add many cases of asthma to the number. I have 
so often seen this disorder prevalent in gouty famihes, 
affecting those who do not undergo the disease in the 
joints, and ceasing wholly or in part when the gout ap- 
pears externally, that I cannot doubt the existence of this 
relation. 

'^ The greater tendency to apoplexy in this habit is no- 
ticed by many of the older writers, and confirmed by 
general experience. 

^' Eeference has already been made to hypochondriasis 
and hysteria ; and it is probable that other disorders of the 
same class, still less generally viewed under this connection, 
will hereafter be submitted to it. 

^^ The relation of gout to the functions and disorders of 
the liver is another point of much interest in pathology, 
clearly attested both in the active symptoms of the disease 
and by those which are common under other forms of the 
gouty temperament. This, moreover, is one of the points 
associating it with that group of maladies bearing the 
vague name of dyspepsia, 

" The connection of gout with cutaneous affections is an 
additional topic, yet almost unexamined ; though I cannot 
doubt, from my own observation, that certain of these 
disorders occur as effects of the habit in question.'' — (Ibid, 
pp. 253-54.) 

The enormous quantities of medicine dispensed in the 



PERIODICAL EXAMINATIONS. 97 

out-patient departments of hospitals and dispensaries for 
the temporary relief of this class of functional derange- 
ments and local diseases — for complaints which might be 
prevented by the patients themselves if they were properly 
informed of the causes and premonitory symptoms of their 
maladies — these are facts which must be perfectly famiHar 
to all my hearers. Such a system of examination and 
advice as I propose, if properly carried out, must strike 
at the root of these evils, and would at the same time 
reduce the miserable over-crowding of the hospital wait- 
ing-rooms, and the enormous expenses incurred for drugs. 
These are considerations which, however important as 
elements of social and political economy, are elevated far 
above the rank of financial questions by the fact I have 
endeavoured to demonstrate in these Lectures, that by 
these same means, and at the same time, we shall so largely 
promote the economy of life. 

I hope. Gentlemen, that you will draw the attention of 
the treasurers and governors of any hospitals to which 
you may belong to this subject. It is necessary to the 
credit and honour of our profession, that improvements 
in these medical establishments should not come from the 
public to us, but should originate among ourselves, and be 
urged by medical men upon the public attention. 

The following sketch of a common complaint, and a 
common story, may illustrate the need for some such sys- 
tem as I propose. A lad of fifteen is admitted into a 
hospital ward with a first attack of rheumatic fever. He 
is treated with skill, and nursed with care, and in two- or 
three weeks he is convalescent, and returns to his home 
without having received any damage to his heart or other 
organs. But he has no proper understanding of the na- 
ture of his complaint, of the conditions of life calculated 
to keep up the morbid influence in his organism, no clear 

H 



98 PBEIODICAL EXAMINATIONS. 

notions of the diet which he ought or ought not to adopt, 
no knowledge of the premonitory symptoms by which a 
fresh attack of rheumatic fever is heralded, or of the pre- 
cautions necessary when such an attack is feared. He has 
probably a general idea that his great enemy is cold, and 
his great friend flannel ; and that is as likely to lead him 
wrong as right in the measures he adopts. 

He goes back to his home and his pursuits apparently 
well. He keeps his skin closely cased in flannel, and his 
dwelling-rooms warm, but he neglects altogether to pro- 
vide for efficient excretion by the skin. He chooses a 
business, either utterly regardless of its fitness for his con- 
stitution, or makes as great a mistake by selecting one 
in which he may be sure of warm, that is to say close, 
rooms and workshops by which he is deprived of exercise 
and oxygen. He drinks beer, eats cheese, and so forth, 
like other people in his position. After a few months he 
comes bach as an out-patient at the hospital, with severe 
acid dyspepsia, and after consuming the usual amount of 
drugs for several weeks, gets rehef, and goes back to his 
old 'habits. A few months more, and he appears again, 
the subject of a skin-disease ; goes again through the con- 
sumption of drugs, and gets well and goes back to work. 
By and by he comes again with diarrhoea, and goes 
through the same process ; at another time with gravel, 
and gets rehef again. At length, a few years perhaps 
having elapsed, and after some months of depressed health, 
with palpitations of the heart, gloomy thoughts, irritable 
temper, and general malaise, he happens to be out on a 
damp raw day, gets a chill, and applies again at the 
hospital, with a fresh attack of rheumatic fever. This 
time he sufiers from endocarditis, and after some weeks 
returns again to his home, ^^ discharged cured,^^ but with 
disease of the valves of his heart. He has been thoroughly 



PERIODICAL EXAMINATIONS. 99 

well treated, and is very free from rheumatic poison, and 
hence goes on for a considerable time without much 
inconvenience; but having no clear ideas of the nature 
of the damage he has received, or of the precautions ne- 
cessary to prevent its increase or the production of 
secondary diseases dependent upon this damage for their 
cause, he gradually becomes the subject of congested 
lungs and liver ; of attacks of bronchitis to which he was 
not formerly inclined ; his breathing becomes short, his 
old dyspeptic troubles, cutaneous affections and gravel, 
recur again and again, and his capability of following 
his former occupations gets less and less. 

If he does not have another attack of rheumatic fever, 
he comes back to the hospital some future day with 
chronic bronchitis, or with apoplectic symptoms, or with 
congested liver, or still later with albuminuria and dropsy. 
At length he dies, and his death is registered under the 
head of apoplexy, heart-disease, or dropsy. 

You will admit that this sketch is no exaggeration; 
that I have, in fact, omitted numerous details of minor 
diseases and discomforts, that are sure to have existed in 
the case itself. I have said nothing of the effects upon 
this man^s children of his continued ill-health, or of the 
poverty and want of food brought upon his wife and family 
by the same cause, and acting as fresh causes of disease in 
them. But I have said enough to make it quite clear, 
that, in the course of a life prematurely ended, he must 
have consumed a vast amount of money in the form of 
drugs, and a vast amount of nervous energy, if not of 
brains, in the form of medical advice. 

It is to the first causes, to the ^^ wells and springs*^ of 
such a series of calamities as this, that I have directed 
your attention as fellow medical practitioners, and to 
which I now beg that you will direct the attention of 

h2 



100 VESTIGES OP DISEASE. 

the Treasurers and Governors of Hospitals and Dispen- 
saries, of your private patients, and of the public at 
large. 

4t * * 4t * 

In my fourth lecture I gave an Etiological analysis of 
those states of disease assembled under the following 6 
headings in the Registrar-GeneraFs Reports of the deaths 
in London. (Report of the deaths in London registered 
in the 21st week of each of the ten years 1848-57. The 
Report current at the time the notes for taese Lectures 
were made.) 

1. Typhus, typhoid and other forms of continued fever. 

2. Apoplexy and Paralysis. 

3. Heart diseases and Pericarditis. 

4. Rheumatism and Gout. 

5. Bronchitis. 

6. Atrophy and Debility. 

In this analysis I demonstrated that when we analyse 
the natural history of any disease we find that the prind- 
pal factors of its essential cause, of its predisposing causes 
and of the causes of its fatality fall necessarily under one 
of the three headings: — 1. Conditions of life. 2. Coetan- 
eous diseases. 3. Vestiges of Disease. 

I showed not only theoretically but from actual obser- 
vations made by others as well as by myself, how the 
organism becomes damaged by these Vestiges op Disease 
— ^how the vital force becomes defective through these 
Vestiges, how this defective stake of the vital force be- 
comes the essential cause and the predisposing cause of 
disease ; and how the Vestiges of one disease become the 
causes of fatality in whole famihes of other diseases. 

I endeavoured to prove, by an array of facts, that the 
vestiges of disease become causes of fatality in other dis- 
eases principally in two ways. 

1. By destroying those modes of matter and that corre- 



VESTIGES OF DISEASE. 101 

lation of conditions upon which the existence of the vital 
force in its normal condition depends, thus producing 
excessive defect of the vital force, 

2, By producing excessive defect in the condition of 
some part of the organism, occupying the position, at the 
time, of an essential instrument in the processes of life, 
and thus causing the organism to break down at this its 
weakest part. 

I pointed out that in the large majority of deaths from 
disease, the fatality is dv£, not to the disease itself, but to 
the vestiges of some pre-existent disease, operating in one or 
other of the above ways. 

In illustration of this great fact, I have set forth the 
course of events, by which the vestiges of disease, passing 
under the names of anemia and fatty degeneration, be- 
come the actual causes of a large number of the deaths 
registered under the following names : — 

Tabes mesenterica, croup, measles, hydrocephalus, 
whooping-cough, dentition, convulsions, apoplexy, para- 
lysis, delirium tremens, intemperance, angina pectoris, 
diseases of the heart, pneumonia, diarrhoea, mortification, 
influenza, peritonitis, childbirth, bronchitis, jaundice, 
liver disease, kidney disease, and some others. 

As an indication of the insidious 'way in which the 
deadly influence is exerted by these states, — anemia and 
fatty DEGENERATION — (which are only examples of a class), 
I called attention to the fact that their names do not 
appear in the bills of mortahty. (See Anasmia, Fatty 
Degeneration.) 

My object now is to exhibit in a conspicuous manner 
the Interdependence of diseases. 

I have therefore restricted myself to a statement of the 
influence exerted by the vestiges of each of the diseases 
analysed in the preceding Lectures upon the rest of the 



102 INTERDEPENDENCE OP DISEASE. 

same Kttle group, and in order that the different relation- 
ships may be seen at a glance I have arranged the 
facts in a tabular form. 

In the following tables the first column gives a list of 
the vestiges of the disease at its head. The second 
column shows to which of the diseases already analysed 
each vestige may become the predisposing cause. The 
third column shows to which it may become the essential 
cause, and the fourth column shows to which it may be- 
come the cause of fatality. It must be remembered that 
several vestiges usually concur in producing their effects. 



INTEBDSPENDENCE OF DISEASES. 



103 



Hi 



m 
el 



<=> I 

OQ g 

H 

OQ 

Q 
<1 



PQ 



O 



OQ 



OQ 
OQ 



09 

I 

1 

o 



•<1 



<1 



H 
OQ 

o 

o 
o 

PQ 



1 

a 

2 
pq 



'§1 

..I 

P Q> 

h to 



S 



S8 



OQ N 



00 BO 

P 

09 



PQ 






PQ 



PS n 
o M 

o 



OQ 



e3 



OQ 

a 

o 

OD 

3 

OD 

o 

•a 

od 

•c 

P 
Ph 



^ 



0) 

a 

.0) 



QQ 



oB 

1 

8 

4 



104 



INTEBDEPENDKNCE OF DISEASES. 



U 

► 

O 



d 






Q> CO 

00 






I 



•3 



8 



■S ■S'S 



§ 
lis 



§ 

pq 



d eS 

pq 



d 



O 
o8 



I 






I 

-"I 





1 



•a 

o 



CO 





SiS 



a* 

fO o 

gs 




•I. 

i: 



Q> 



(0 



fl) • 
o 

d b 
o ■* 

II 



:3 



2 

a 

• d * 

S o 

■ 8 

i 

o «> A 

« § * 



I 
I 



I 

O 



s& 



g 



«Q 

•43 



INTSBDEPBNDENCB OF DISEASES. 



l-H 



•J 

2 gW g 









o 

Its a.§ 



e4 




» 




105 



o 



5 






3 

I 
1 



9 

I 

3 



2 
9 

I 



O 

M 
OD 
O 

s ® 

^ p 

Ho 



CQ 



3 



1 



•J3 



. -5 

pq PQ 



I 

I 



I 



I 
I 



? 



OQ 







1 ■ 






0-3 



|S 



o o 



•r 

8 ' 

n 

el 

§ • 

o 

•430 



tS 



I 

2 
n 






S) 



8D 



o - 
m 

a> -3 
so « 

^1 



9 



106 



nmBDlFlENDINOI OF DI8BA81S. 



9^ 
O 



QQ 

5 



•43 



CD 

QQ 



9.^ as 



s 

o 



o o 

O 



s, 



e 



raTKBDEFBIiDBNOB OF DISBASilS. 



107 



I 



O 



QQ 

H 

» 
QQ 




•5 










I -4^ 

d ® 





"S-s 



CO 

I 

o 




3 

I 



I 



I 






108 



INTIiBDBFIiNDENCB Ot DISEASES. 



o I 

OD g 
H H 
OQ 

5 

Q 



O 

CD 

a 

•J 

OQ 
QQ 



o 






S;3 



O 
CD 



B 

o 



-f5 8 





I 

1 



S4 

o 

o 
>> 

--1 



'd 

at 

I 







g 







'S 
3. 



J 



•^-s 



y 

® g 

S- 

.'d 
a d 

•-J 
o w 
P«o 

5 

»d ta 

O ■ 
,d 9 



^ 



INTEBDBPENDENCK OF DI8BA8K8. 



109 



1 


1 


g 


• 


•J 


3 


< 


Q) 


Eh 


CQ 


< 


^ 


tu 


^ 


O 


M 


eo 


• 


< 


Is? 




H 


< 


m 


o 


y 






OD 


^fl 


5 




•J 


'O >) 


^ 


r^^ 


M 

E- 


gj5 


55 

1 ! 


II 


H 


9 d 
Ji'd 




<1 


o 


• 


»% 




M 




OQ 




O 




Pk 


A 


CO «. 




ft o 




£1 


• 


P 






• 



H 

I 



eo 

1 



n 



s 

o 

OQ 
N 
O 






1 

CD 



I 





I 
I 

1 

I 



li 



9 



CD 




5 


1: 


1 


H 


(^ 


fr 


t? 


o 


^ 


'ft 


P^J 


^ 


<J 



2 



I 



Eh 



O 
»^ 

M 
QQ 

o 

M O 

Q 



^ QQ 



1 



8 $, 






PM 



M 



o 

OD 
» 

> 





110 



INTEBDEPENDSNCE OF DISEASES. 



o 



OQ 



OQ 
OQ 



I 



eo 



^ ^ 



n 



•5 



pq 



I 

3 

•a 



I 

S 

•a 



■I 

CO 

-a 

s 

H 
O 

I 



I 

at 



M 



ia 



I I 



< 



< 






I' 

o « 

-«1 




o 

s 



9 



* o 
1^ 



^ 



OQ 



a 



o 



eg 

to 5 
•g ^.^ 






i 

-a 

I 







• 






H . 






-*» 






vi 


• 






s 




• 




1 




§i 


tS 






• 




•^ 


•J 




•5« 


1 




^3 


i 




la 


m 




m 


• 




• 


• 


►: • 


• 




i 


1 


• 




1 




n3 

BB 


9 


• 


>»>» 


►> 




-ai 


•a 



I 



"S'ffi 

o 
so o 



.S'i 



M 






2 fe >> ' 

^ 2 
• © * • 

® S a 

■§§•§ 

»4 ^ 

O P«ao >) 

BD -4 OQ •prf 






•— • rrl M O 



r 

QQ 






«o 

I 

P4 



bn 



^^ 2^ 






BD 

:-2 
•g 

E 

PQ 
© d 

S » 2 
s ©-^ 

" bo 



& 






•43 o- 

.9 08,0 



g-& 



g 



i4 • 

o 



§1 



© o 

■Si 

O 0) 

•H OQ 

S © 
-5 ► 



s 




IIITEBDEPBNDENOS OV DISEASES. 



Ill 



'-IS § 3 

lit 



S 



18, 



li 






1^-3^ 




1 12 ANEMIA. 

Having shown the remarkable interdependence which 
exists between different diseases — how they act and react 
upon one another. I must attempt in this Lecture, to 
show to what extent one vestige of disease, or the several 
vestiges of one disease, may act as essential causes and as 
causes of death in other diseases. I will first take some Dis- 
eases which have no place in the Ee^strar's report. This 
will enable us to observe how many of the headings under 
which deaths are in that report owe their existence there 
to diseases which never figure at all as causes of death. 

The first example I have chosen is Ancemia, a name 
that does not appear in the Eegistrar^s Reports. 

ANMMIA. 

A careful examination of the subject teaches us that 
Anaemia is one of the most frequent vestiges of all severe 
diseases, when they do not terminate in death — ^the pa- 
tient remains anaemic during convalescence, and in a 
large number of cases continues so long after retiumng 
to the duties of life. Again, we observe, that anaemia 
is continually occurring in connection with the periods 
of puberty and the cessation of the catamenia, and that 
during the intervening years, it is one of the most 
frequent forms of impaired health connected with de- 
rangements of menstruation, with lactation, with conva- 
lescence from the puerperal state, and during preg- 
nancy. 

Innumerable other causes may be found for this con- 
dition, which is, in fact, the type of most of those miser- 
able states of health referred to by The Times in the 
memorable article already quoted — ^^ There is a certainty 
worse than any occasional and precarious plague. We 
may anticipate it from our own experience — we may see 
the great fact with our own eyes It is not disease. 



AK^MIA. 



iia 



but it is not health. It is a low state of vitality, of physi- 
cal power, of mental energy, of enjoyment, and even of 

moral strength Shocking as it may seem, a plague 

once in twenty years seems but a light evil to so low a 
condition of humanity/^ 

From a concatenation of circumstances, it so happens 
that the female portion of the population have to support 
the principal weight of this dire affliction. Anssmiated 
girls, anaemiated brides, anaemiated spinsters, anasmiated 
mothers, abound in the consulting room, the outpatient 
room, the hospital ward, the home; wherever, in. fact, the 
physician^s duties call him there they are to be found. 
Yet from the long list of diseases named in the mortality 
tables, this name, anasmia, is absent. Is it, then, a thing 
to be endured, but not to be feared ? Is it a name for 
sickness only, and not a cause of death ? Quite the re- 
verse, gentlemen, the fact is that, like some individuals 
of great influence and importance, anaemia travels incogs 
nito. When we discover its various " nommes de guerre/' 
we are startled to find ourselves face to face with the im- 
personation of long- dreaded enemies. 



Tabes mesenterica 


. 18-3 deaths 


per week. 


Croup . 


. 6-8 


}f 


99 


Measles 


. 25-0 


9} 


99 


Hydroceplialus . 


. 32-5 


>> 


99 


W hooping-cough 


. 51-1 




99 


Pneumonia . 


. 60-3 


ii 


99 


Dentition . 


. 12-8 


9i 


99 


Diarrhoea . 


. 17-5 




99 


Convulsions 


. 36-5 


99 


99 


Sronchitis . 


. 64-5 




9S 


Childbirth . 


. 4-3 


99 


99 



829-6 



114 ANEMIA. 

These are some of the names under which anaemia 
travels among the sick, and takes its place in the bills of 
mortality. The way in which it does so is as stealthy as 
it is deadly. I will tell you something of how it 
happens. 

" Among the children of the poor of London, the most 
widely-spread of these diseases (tuberculosis, scrofulosis, 
rickets,) is rickets. It is, however, by no means limited to 
the poor, or to London, or even to large towns.^^ I quote 
from one of the most correct medical philosophers of 
modem times. — (Dr., now Sir W., Jenner, Lectures on 
Rickets, Medical Times and Gazette, March 17, 1860.) 

" Rickets is essentially and purely a disease of nutri- 
tion, not of one part only, but of the whole body.^^ 

" Rickets causes, primarily or secondarily, more deaths 
than any other disease of childhood.^^ 

"The great causes of death in rickets are: — ^1. Inten- 
sity of the general cachexia. 2. Catarrh and bronchitis. 
3. Albuminoid infiltration of organs, especially of the 
lymphatic glands and spleen (but also of the liver). 4. 
Laryngismus stridulus. 5. Chronic Hydrocephalus. 6. 
Convulsions. 7. Diarrhcea.^^ 

You see, gentlemen, how closely this list of the causes 
of death in rickets corresponds with the list I have just 
given of what I have called the " nommes de guerre" of 
anaemia ; and the correspondence is really closer than it 
appears at first sight. 

^^The connection between rickets and laryngismus 

stridulus/' continues Dr. Jenner, " is very close 

I believe the reason of laryngismus stridulus being so 
constantly referred to teething is that the ricketty condition 
retards the development of the teeth, and the medical 
practitioner refers the laryngismus to that which, like 
itself, is the consequence of constitutional disease. 



an;rmia. 115 

*' If a child pass over the ninth month without teeth, 

you should carefully inquire into its cause It may 

be, and this is infinitely the most common cause of late 
dentition, that the child is rickety/* 

Many deaths, therefore, registered under the head of 
DENTITION, may be referred to ri chefs. 

'^Catarrh and bronchitis,^* says Dr. Jenner, "are 
unquestionably the most common causes of death, in 
rickets. The softening of the ribs rendering the me- 
chanical power by which inspiration is performed so 
defective, that the impediment oflTered to the entrance of 
the air by the mucus in the bronchial tubes cannot be 
overcome; and collapse of large portions of the lung 
follows. 

" This want of inspiratory power, and the consequent 
accumulation of mucus in the bronchial tubes, affords an 
explanation of the extraordinary mortality of measles, 
whooping covgh, and bronchitis in ricketty subjects.** 

Thus may we refer two more of the headings of the 
Registrar — measles and whooping cough — to rickets. 

For similar reasons, and still more from the intensity of 
the general cachexia and the corresponding defect in the 
vital force, rickets will be found to be the true cause of 
fatality in many of the deaths registered under the name 

of PNEUMONIA. 

Then we have the deaths from childbirth 4' 3 per week, 
and it is very interesting to trace out the influence of 
rickets in causing these miserable deaths. The mode of 
its operation is twofold. First, there is the large size of 
the head in the rickety foetus ; and, secondly, deformities 
of the pelvis in women who have been rickety in their 
childhood. On examining into the causes of death in 
childbirth, as carefully collated by Dr. E. Collins, of the 
Dublin lying-in hospital, I find that of eighty-one cases of 

i2 



116 ANiBMIA. 

death during parturition, tliirty-two were due to rupture 
of the uterus, eleven to tedious or difficult labour. If we, 
then, enquire into the causes of rupture of the uterus and 
tedious or diflSicult labour, to which forty-three out of 
eighty-one deaths were due, we find that narrowing and 
deformity of the pelvis, and abnormal size of the child^s 
head, stand prominently forward in their importance ; and 
thus we are brought back to rickets as the chief cause of 
these deaths. 

But you will perhaps ask, how anssmia is proved to be 
the cause of the deaths under these difierent headings, by 
proving that they are due to rickets ? That is, in fact, 
the important question. The answer is this, that ancemia 
in the mother produces rickets in the child, and ancemia 
in the child may lead to rickets also. This may be as 
familiar to you all as it is to me ; but I will give you the 
authority of Dr. Jenner again, who has devoted great 
attention to this subject : — 

" The health of the mother has a decided influence in 

the development of rickets in the offspring Of 

this much, I am sure — ^that when the mother is in dehcate 
health, in a state of which ancemia and general want of 
power form the prominent features, without being the 
subject of disease usually so-called, there the children are 
often in a very decided degree rickety, although the father 
is in robust health, and the hygienic conditions in which 
the children are placed are most favourable.^^ " It is very 
common for the first two or three children to be free from 
any signs of rickets, and yet for every subsequent child to 
be rickety. 

'^Whatever external conditions are favourable to the 
formation of hydraemic blood in a child, seem to be favour- 
able to the development of rickets. 

^^ Albuminoid infiltration of the lymphatic glands^. 



AN-EMIA. 117 

spleen, and other organs is by no means an uncommon 
cause of death in rickets. The two great features, during 
life, of albuminoid infiltration of these organs in a young 
child, are emaciation and pallor; the ancemia is often most 
remarkable/^ 

You will not fail, then, to see at once the intimate 
connection between rickets and anaemia, and between 
anaemia and that list of terrible names in the Registrar's 
Reports. 

I do not wish you to suppose that I attribute all the 
deaths under those headings to anaemia ; that would be a 
great mistake. But from an elaborate and careful analysis 
of such deaths, I have found, and you may find, that a 
very large, a very remarkably large, proportion of them 
are due to anaemia in the individual, or to anaemia in 
a parent and rickets in the offspring. It is important 
to bear in mind, that, with the exception of hydro- 
cephalus, the diseases I have enumerated from the 
mortality-tables are extremely common every-day com- 
plaints — that they occur and terminate favourably thou- 
sands of times every year ; that it is only the fatal cases 
that come into our list, and with which we now are con- 
cerned. And what I have endeavoured to show, and 
what I wish to impress upon you is, that we must look to 
anaemia as the chief cau3e of this fatality ; that it is anae- 
mia in the individual or anaemia in a parent that brings 
these remediable, every-day complaints into the bills of 
mortality. 

When, therefore, we see anaemia establishing itself, as 
a vestige of the diseases from which our convalescents 
have lately suffered, or in any other way, we must regard 
it as the grim harbinger of death in a vast family of 
diseases. 



118 FATTY DEGENERATION. 

The next example I shall give is Fatty degeneration 
which, like the last does not appear in the Registrar's 
Reports. 



FA^rTY DEGENERATION. 

In the present day, Gentlemen, we have all learnt that 
'' something much more than a general tendency to form 
fat, or a general excess of fat in the blood is necessary to 
produce a local fatty degeneration.^' — [Paget^s Lectures^ 
Vol. I., p. 112). 

Every year throws new light on the physiology of the 
process by which this change is brought about; but of 
this it is not within the province of these Lectures to 
treat. I wish, however, to point out to you that the 
pathological condition termed fatty degeneration is to be 
regarded as a vestige of disease — a vestige of perverted 
assimilation, either local or general, and hence a vestige 
also of any diseases by which such perverted assimilation 
is produced. In the third series of Guy's Hospital Rvporis 
(Vol. iii. 1857), Dr. Wilks has related a number of 
interesting cases of fatty degeneration, of which the only 
appn ciable and probable causes were ha&rnorrhage, diar- 
rhoea, miasmata. In these cases the subjects were com- 
paratively young, the heart was the organ in which the 
diseased change was most marked, and the body gener- 
ally was neither fat nor wasted. 

Fatty degeneration appears to be especially prone to 
occur in tissues which have passed from a condition of 
active assimilation to one of comparatively inactive or 
feeble nutrition, by whatever cause this change may have 
been brought about. Thus, the muscular tissue is 



FATTY DEGENERATION. 119 

particularly subject to fatty degeneration; it is also 
peculiar for the vigour of its normal assimilation, and 
it is when this is rendered feeble that degeneration occurs. 
This appears to be the case whether the vigorous assimi- 
lation is hindered by arrest of function in the muscles, as 
in the case of paralyzed limbs, or by deficient supply of 
blood, as in disease of the nutrient arteries of a part, or 
by a depraved condition of the blood supplied to the part, 
as in the case of persons who, after having led active 
muscular lives, gradually become ansemiated by passive 
haemorrhages. I have seen many instances of strong 
men, accustomed to vigorous country occupations, who, 
having become the subjects of bleeding haemorrhoids, by 
which the blood lost its red globules, and nutrition became 
enfeebled, suffered from degeneration of their previously 
strong and vigorous hearts. Many other examples might 
be adduced of the degeneration of tissues when their 
assimilation is changed from a vigorous to a feeble state. 
Thus we find, in watching the course of diseases of the 
heart, that the heart which has become hypertrophied in 
opposing some obstruction to the circulation during the 
active life of the individual, becomes degenerated when, 
in the further progress of the case, the patient is forced to 
relinquish active pursuits, and thus ceases to call upon 
the hypertrophied organ for the full exercise of its muscu- 
lar power. Thus, also, parts which have been inflamed 
are especially Hable to degenerate, and fatty degeneration 
frequently takes place in organs deprived of their proper 
functions by disease, as in kidneys spoilt by Bright's 
disease. Thus, also, the products of inflammation, when 
they have no further functions to perform, are peculiarly 
subject to fatty degeneration. Without pressing the 
subject further, I think we shall all agree that fatty de- 
generation must be regarded as a vestige of disease, not 



120 FATTY DEGRNEBATIOK. 

as a disease in itself^ and that in thus regarding it^ we 
most often look beyond the defect in assimilation to the 
causes of that defect, in order to find the disease of which 
the degeneration is tmly a vestige. 

I must now proceed to show to what a wide extent 
this vestige of disease acts as a cause of those deaths 
classed in the Registrar's reports under the heads of a 
variety of diseases. 

''The most interesting examples (of fatty degenera- 
tion)/^ says Mr. Paget, " are those of 'primary degeneration 
of blood-vessels. This has long been known in the aihero- 
matous disease, as it was called, of the larger arteries, the 
true nature of which, as a fatty and calcareous degenera- 
tion of the inner and, consecutively, of the middle 
arterial coat, was discovered by Mr. Gulliver (see Med. 
Chir. Transactions, Vol. XXVI.) The descriptions of 
this complaint by him and by Rokitansky have left 
nothing unsaid that is yet known ; but the observations 
are each year becoming more numerous and more inter- 
esting of similar changes in the minutest blood-vessels. 
Such changes are especially observable in the minutest 
cerebral vessels, and their importance in relation to 
APOPLEXT of which they seem to be the most frequent 
precedent, cannot be overstated.^^ — {Ibid,, Vol. I., p. 
139.) 

Dr. Wilks^ experience has taught him that, ''In the 
majority of cases of sanguineous apoplexy, disease of the 
blood-vessels exists.^^ — {Lectures on Pathological Anatomy, 
1859.) 

Dr. Kirkes has shown {Med. Chir. Transactions, Vol 
XXXV.) that PARALYSIS, consequent upon arrested circula- 
tion in some portion of brain, is frequently the result of 
the obstruction of healthy cerebral arteries by masses of 
fibrine carried into them, after being dislodged from the 



FATTY DEGENERATION. 121 

valves of the left side of the heart, or from some part of 
the arterial system. 

And Dr. Ormerod has pointed out that it is in the 
cachetic subjects, with feeble circulations, that such masses 
are likely to form in the heart, in the very persons, in 
fact, who are Hkely to be the subjects of fatty degenera- 
tion of this org »n. — {Observations on the Clinical History 
and Pathology of one form of Fatty Degeneration of the 
Heart, by B. L. Ormerod, M.T). Medical Gazette, 1849.) 

And although Dr. Ormerod was not prepared at that 
time (1849) to consider the occurrence of fibrinous clots 
in the subjects of fatty degeneration to be more than a 
frequent coincidence, we do not now doubt that the lan- 
guid circulation, and the inefficient contractions of the 
heart in the subjects of fatty degeneration, act, together 
with other circumstances, in causing these deposits of 
fibrine from the blood. 

Describing the appearances after death in fatal cases of 
DELIRIUM TREMENS, Dr. Wilks says, " The body, as a rule, 
presents many degenerative changes, brought about by 
the intemperate habits. It is this alteration of the viscera, 
I think, to which death is owing. Delirium tremens is & 
recoverable affection until such changes have occurred in 
the tissues that improvement is no Ion er possible; and 
we then find in the body various morbid changes. These 
are mostly of the fatty kind, as all alcoholic drinks tend 
to this condition.^^ — (Ibid,) 

In Angina Pectoris, again. Dr. Wilks, in common with 
other observers, has found that " the heart is usually fatty, 
and the coronary arteries ossified.^^ — [Ibid,) 

" It is impossible,^^ says Dr. Ormerod {Ibid^, " to read 

any collection of cases of angina pectoris without 

feeling how much further fatty degeneration goes to ex* 
plain the symptoms than does any other morbid change 
usually found on dissection.'^ 



122 FATTY DBOENEEATION. 

Mr. Paget classes the heart and arteries first among the 
frequent seats of fattj degeneration. — [Ihid,, Vol. I., 
p. 116). 

Among the vessels of which the coats have been found 
degenerated are those of the lungs and placenta ; and pol- 
monary or uterine haemorrhages may result from this state 
of the vessels. 

Against the extreme vital depression which accompanies 
such diseases as peritonitis, influenza, and diaebhcea, 
the subjects of fatty degeneration have no resisting 
power; they are among the first to succumb; and 
thus fatty degeneration becomes a cause of death in 
these and other depressing diseases when they attack 
adults. 

Out of 164 deaths from Childbirth in Dublin Hospital, 
during the seven years ending November, 1 826, as record- 
ed by Dr. R. Collins, I find thirty two attributed to rupture 
of the uterus, and eleven to tedious or diflSicult labour. Re- 
cent investigations into the causes of rupture of the uterus, 
show that fatty degeneration of its walls is a most frequent 
if not a constant coincidence. 

Patty degeneration of the uterus, then, is a cause of 
death in childbirth by producing or disposing to rupture 
of the organ ; but it has yet another influence on these 
deaths, for we may be quite sure that a degree of degene- 
ration mu^t often exist, not suflBicient to lead to rupture, 
but quite sufficient to render the organ incompetent to 
vigorous muscular contraction, even under the influence of 
unusual stimuli. And thus it may become the cause of 
those hopelessly tedious labours which, as we have seen, 
assist to swell the death-rate in parturition. 

Thus do we see that among the rational causes of dread 
that haunt the brain of the accoucheur during a tedious 
labour, fatty degeneration of the uterus has a right to 
stand foremost. 



FATTY DEGENERATION. 123 

In Pneumonia, Dr. Wilks says that, in '^ far the majority 
of fatal cases, some pre-existing and more chronic disease 
is found in some organ of the body/^ — {Ibid.) 

Speaking of the probabilities of death in pneumonia, Dr. 
Walshe has made the following very well-considered ob- 
servation — 

'^There are certain other circumstances (besides treat- 
ment) beyond the control of the physician, which exercise 
a most indubitable influence on the issue (of pneumonia). 
Among these, the pre-existence of organic disease and the 
state of health generally of the individual hold an important 
place. But of all the collateral conditions, age is the most 
important. While at the two extremities of life, in the 
new-bom infant and in the octogenarian, pneumonia is 
almost inevitably fatal, the mortality between the ages of 
six and twelve years scarcely exceeds two-and-a-half per 
cent.^^ — {Maniial of Diseases of the Ghest, 2nd edition, 
p. 438.) 

To this I would add, that the octogenarian may be 
represented at any period of life by the subject of fatty 
degeneration. 

I need hardly remind you that, in protracted Chronic 
Bronchitis there is no one feature more fearfully pro-^ 
gnostic of a fatal issue, sooner or later, than the co-ex- 
istence of fatty degeneration. 

In speaking of Senile Gangrene, Mr. Pa?et says it 
occurs, '* as its name implies, in the old, and often in those- 
who are o/cZ m structure, rather than in years; it affects 
tissues already degenerate I think that, in some- 
cases, its beginning may be when the progressive degene- 
ration of the part has arrived at death. But, if this da 
not happen, some injury or disease, even a trivial one,, 
kills that which was nearly already dead, as a severe injury 
might kill any part, however actively alive.*^ — (Ihid.y^ 
Vol. I., p. 461.) 



124 PATTY DEGENERATION. 

Under the heads of Livee-diseasb, Jaundice, and Kid- 
ney-disease, I may mention some interesting cases ex- 
amined by Eokitansky. (On Fatal Steatosis — Fatty 
Degeneration — of the Liver and Kidneys,) 

''The cases referred to consisted in steatosis of the Kver, 
accompanied by a high degree of steatosis of the kidneys. 
Their importance rests upon the possibility of proving 
them to be parallel to the cases of acute atrophy of the 
liver, and the analagous renal ajSection which co -exists 
with it. 

'' It is evident that in our cases we have not to deal 
with that steatosis of the liver which occurs so commonly 
in the course of consuming suppurative processes, but 
with fatty livers, as they not rarely develop themselves 
to a high degree, at the side of an abundant formation of 
fat in the areolar tissue, without the disease being always 
attributable to gross feeding. 

'' There exists thus a steatosis of the liver, occurring in 
individuals inclined to the formation of fat, to which 
sooner or later a steatosis of the kidney is added, both which 
diseases attain slowly and imperceptibly so high a degree 
that, finally, a cessation of the biliary and urinary secre- 
tion supervenes, and, after a slight degree of icterus, 
death rapidly sets in from anaemia and a hasmorrhagic 
decomposition of the blood.^' — [Banking's Abstract, Vol. 
XXXI., p. 40.) 

Gentlemen, I might prolong this subject much further 
— so widely spread is the influence of this seemingly spon- 
taneous atrophy, this vestige of disease. I might give 
you quotations from reliable authorities to show in how 
many more diseases than I have yet referred to, the fatality ^ 
is determined by fatty degeneration ; but I should exhaust 
your patience and overstep our time. I will, therefore^ 



PATTY DEGENERATION. 125 

conclude the list by simply enumerating the causes to 
which death was attributed in sixty- eight cases analysed 
by Dr. Quain, in all of which there was fatty degeneration. — 
(Med, Ghir, Transactions. 1850.) 



LIST OF CAUSES TO WHICH DEATH WAS ATTRIBUTED IN 
SIXTY-EIGHT CASES OF FATTY DEGENERATION. 

Rupture of the heart. 

Exhaustion. 

Coma. 

Pleuropneumonia. 

Syncope anginosa. 

Cardiac apoplexy. 

Syncope. 

Cancrum oris. 

Gradual decay. 

Lethargic. 

Hasmorrhage into the pericardium. 

Cerebral hasmorrhage. 

Diarrhoea. 

Gangrene of the intestines. 

I must briefly remind you, in the words of Mr. Paget, 
that ^^ Fatty degeneration of the heart often introduces 
unexpected dangers into the ordinary practice of surgery. 
It is, I believe, not rarely the cause of sudden death after 
operations. It is one of the conditions in which chloro- 
form should be administered with more than ordinary 
caution. They who labour under it may be fit for all the 
ordinary events of a calm and quiet life, but they are un- 
able to resist the storm of sickness, an accident, or an 
operation.^^ — {Ibid., Vol. 1., p. 129.) 



126 



ABNORMAL PHYSrOLOQICAL STATES. 



To sum up. Gentlemen, we have seen that this vestige 
of disease, fatty degeneration, may claim as its victims a 
certain number of deaths out of each of the following 
headings of the Registrar's report : — 



Apoplexy . 
Paralysis 
Delirium tremens 


1 

9 

and 


, 26-0 deaths 
. 23-7 „ 


per week. 

99 


intemperance . 
Angina pectoris and 
other diseases of the 


4-5 


>> 


99 


heart 




. 31-9 


99 


99 


Pneumonia . 




, 60-3 


99 


99 


DiarrhoRa . 




17-0 


99 


99 


Mortification 




4-6 


99 


99 


Influenza . 




, 3-1 


99 


99 


Peritonitis . 




. 4-4 


99 


99 


Childbirth , 




. 4-3 


99 


99 


Bronchitis . 




. 64-5 


99 


99 


Jaundice 




, 2-8 


99 


99 


Liver disease 




. 11-0 


99 


99 


Kidney disease , 




. 4-9 


99 


99 



263'5 deaths per week ; 
out of which fatty degeneration claims so large a share. 



ABNORMAL PHYSIOLOGICAL STATES. 

We pass on now, Gentlemen, to another and most im- 
portant branch of our subject. 

I must now speak more at length of those s^a^s of health 
to which I referred in my second Lecture, when I said 



ABNORMAL PHYSIOLOGICAL STATES. 127 

• 

that I should impress upon you that ^^ they are infimately 
related to the definitely marked diseases '^ — those states so 
puzzling to the young practitioner, because they do not 
fall under any of the nosological headings which have been 
his landmarks in the study of disease — those states which, 
although perhaps /am?7/ar in their aspect to most old prac- 
titioners, are, nevertheless, most inefficiently treated, or 
not treated at all, because their interpi etation is so little 
understood, and because their importance is not appreciat- 
ed — states which are not recognised as disease, but which cer- 
tainly are not health, 

A family of four children were exposed to the infection 
of measles at the same time, and from the same source ; 
all of them were supposed to be in health at the time. One 
had the measles simply and slightly ; one had a severe at- 
tack of pneumonia combined with it ; one indicated a dis- 
position to typhoid symptoms, and was completely op- 
pressed by the morbid poison ; a fourth lingered in its 
convalescence, and was found to have become the subject 
of an eruption of tubercles in the lungs. 

A party of friends, all apparently in what is called health, 
met at a funeral; they went together into a damp un- 
warmed cemetery chapel, on a raw winter^s day, and re- 
turned together, one and all complaining that they had 
taken " a severe chill.'' They dined together and went 
to their homes. One suffered an attack of rheumatic 
fever ; one had anasarca ; one jaundice ; another bronchi- 
tis ; a fifth pneumonia ; a sixth diarrhoea ; a seventh had 
erysipelas; and another had pleurisy. One coughed up 
a quantity of blood ; while the rest got a restless night, 
and a cold in the head, and thought no more about it. 
These are no imaginary stories ; analagous cases frequently 
occur within the experience of medical men in large prac- 
tice. But what is their interpretation? Why did the 



128 ABNOEMAL PHYSIOLOGICAL STATES. 

same cause — the chill — ^produce such different effects, un- 
der external conditions, apparently the same ? No doubt, 
the first answer which suggests itself is, that the circum- 
stances, so apparently the same, must have been really 
different. Well, Gentlemen, I will admit that, as the 
first step towards solving the difficulty. But I will insist 
that in a given case, the cause, so far as the chill is con- 
cerned, shall be the same in each individual; and the 
circumstances, so far as they are external, shall be the 
same for each individual. Nevertheless, these different 
effects shall be produced ; and the reason we shall find to 
be this, that there are other causes and other circumstances, 
different in each case, existing within the organisms of the 
sufferers, with which the one cause — the chill — ^has to com- 
bine in producing its effect, and that the effect is the re- 
sult of this combination of causes, different in each indi- 
vidual. 

Some of you, perhaps, will say that this simply means 
that the different effects are explained by the different 
idiosyncrasies of the individual. And I must warn you 
against adopting a word as the explanation of a difficulty, 
lest in doing so, you fail to investigate the multitude of 
facts which that word may represent. I have no objection 
to the word, so long as you bear in mind that you must be 
able to explain what it means, if it is to be accepted as 
any explanation at all. Professor Bernard has spoken 
well on this subject: ^^I discovered,^' he says, ^^that 
section of large divisions of the sympathetic nerve was 
apparently unattended with the slightest inconvenience, 
as long as the health of these animals (rabbits) remained 
perfect .... but as soon as a general debilitation of the 
system arose from want of proper nourishment, acute 
inflammation was produced in the organs deprived on 
nervous influence. We had, therefore, succeeded if 



ABNOBMAL PHTSIOLOQICAL STATES. 129 

artificially creating particular idiosyncrasies in these ani- 
mals, and could predict with certainty that, as soon as 
health failed, disease would arise at a given point. 

Morbid predispositions must, therefore, be 

viewed in the light of peculiar physiological conditions.^' 
And he concludes thus : '^ Let me advise you not to con- 
sider idiosjucrasies in the light of mysterious powers 
residing within the depths of our organs, nor as entirely 
novel functions superadded, as it were, to those which 
already exist. They must be viewed as mere manifesta- 
tions of tho ordinary laws of physiology." — (Bernaed, 
Lecture F., Medical Times and Gazette,) 

Health, Gentlemen, is the normal physiological state; 
and peculiarities in, or divergencies from this condition 
must be regarded as greater or less degradations of health, 
in proportion as they predispose to contingencies which 
increase the probabilities of death before the normal term 
— before the attainment of the ultimatum. 

There are very few persons who pass through life in 
the normal physiological state. At some period of life 
almost every individual diverges, more or less, from this 
state in one direction or another; and during that di- 
vergence, although escaping an attack of what is recog- 
nised as diseasQ, he certainly is not in health; and in 
almost every individual there is a tendency to diverge in 
some particular direction, during which divergence — i, e., 
during that period of degraded health — ^he is particularly 
prone to certain classes of disease. In the case I have 
taken as an example of the efiects of chill, for instance : — 
The man who had rheumatic fever, was already surcharged 
with uric acid. He who had jaundice was suffering from 
defective excretion by the liver, requiring only a certain 
increase in the defect, or of the demands upon the secre- 
ting function, to throw the secretion back into the blood. 

K 



130 ABNOBMAL PHTSIOLOGICAL STATES. 

The patient who had anasarca was suffering either from 
hydraemia, or from defect in the excreting powers of the 
kidneys. The sufferer from bronchitis, I attended myself: 
he had chronic congestion of the bronchi, from repeated 
former attacks of bronchitis, and the circulation through 
his chest was defective, through a feeble degenerated 
heart ; but he had been accustomed to pass as a man in 
health, competent to perform the onerous duties of a tax- 
collector and county-court agent. He who had an attack 
of diarrhoea, found in his bile ducts or in the intestinal 
mucous membrane a safety valve, by which ho was saved 
from either anasarca, jaundice, or rheumatic fever. The 
subjects of erysipelas and pneumonia, and the man who 
had haemoptysis, were already suffering from depraved 
states of the blood, or of the organs to which it was deter- 
mined j and from which, in the last two cases, it escaped 
in different quantities ; while the patient who was attacked 
with pleurisy, was surcharged with urea from defective 
action of his kidneys. 

These several persons, therefore, were suffering, when 
they considered themselves in health — ^before the occur- 
rence of the chill — from physiological conditions to which 
we can attribute the particular form of the disease which 
was set up, by the addition, in each case, of one and the 
same cause, viz., the chill. — But some escaped unhurt I 
Because in them, the physiological state was sufficiently 
normal, that a resisting and reactionary power existed, 
which was competent speedily to restore the functions of 
the organs subjected to the shock of the chill, and to make 
them compensate for the temporary arrest by increased 
activity. ^ 

I have chosen this group of somewhat crude examples 
on purpose, that their meaning may be the more perspicu- 
ous. They, most of them, exemplify states of health ed- 



ABNOI^MAL PHYSIOLOGICAL STATES. 131 

pendent on the fluids and excretory organs of the body. It 
would be easy to bring many examples of degraded health 
consequent on disease attributable to the nervous system. 

Ml He if * * * 

I assume, then, Gentlemen, that I have suflSciently de- 
monstrated that the vestiges of disease stand first among the 
causes of death, 

I have shown that so long as these vestiges exist, they 
are causes of defect in the vital force and thus act as fact- 
ors of the essential and of the predisposing causes of fresh 
attacks of disease. 

I have shown that the diseases, from which these ves- 
tiges result, are but the manifestations of pre -existent phy- 
siological states, to which, by some means, the last condi- 
tion has been supplied, necessary to complete the conditions 
of existence proper to the disease which then is developed 
in its characteristic features. 

I have shown that these abnormal physiological states 
are indicated by the various conditions of impaired, gene- 
ral health, ^^ conditions not recognised as disease, but which 
certainly are not health." 

The sum of it is this : — 

1. The majority of diseases which we seec excited by the 
various accidents of life are but the manifestations of pre- 
existent physiological states, which required only this last 
condition (the accident of life) to complete their develop- 
ment into the characteristic features of disease. 

2. Those conditions "not recognised as disease, but 
which certainly are not health," are the faint expressions 
of these morbid physiological states, while still deficient in 
the condition necessary to complete their developement 

. into the recognised features of disease. 

3. The multifarious and anomalous functional derange- 
ments which puzzle the physician, and make martyrs of 

k2 



132 ABNOBMAL PHTSIOLOGICAL STATES. 

the patients, depend, for the most part, upon the inflaence 
exerted by these morbid physiological states over the or- 
dinary incidents of animal existence, which are thereby 
modified, coloured, and distorted. 

4. During the whole of the time that the physiological 
conditions are disturbed, there is a greater or less defect in 
the vital force, and this defect, therefore, exists at a period 
anterior to what are usually understood as structural 
changes. 

I have shown that these abnormal physiological states, 
recognisable under various forms of impaired health and 
attended by a legion of anomalous symptoms, may be 
traced back to still earlier periods in their history, when 
they require the greatest vigilance of the physician to de- 
tect any deviation from the standard of normal health. 

Then I endeavoured to show in what direction we must 
look for the causes of these earliest and most occult devia- 
tions from the normal physiological state. 

With this intention I pointed out that the conditions of 
life and the vestiges of disease have a direct influence on 
the vital force ; that these alterations in it are transmissible 
to the germs of a succeeding generation; and that thus 
defects of force may be due to abnormal conditions of life 
in the individual, and to the vestiges, or vestiges of ves- 
tiges of disease in an ancestor. And I wish to draw your 
marked attention in this place to the fact, that it is to these 
defects transmitted from an ancestor, and to tJie conditions of 
life in the individual, that we must especially look for the 
causes of those first, insidious deviations from normal health, 

I endeavoured to show that these incipient and insidious 
degradations of the vital force exist at a period anterior to 
such changes as are understood by the terms shnctural and 
organic; and I think you will now understand why I said 



ABNOBMAL PHTSIOLOOICAL STATES. 138 

in my last Lecture, that there could be no fact in Medicine 
of greater practical importance than this. My reason was 
— that the very dependence upon the conditions of life 
which exposes the force in the individual to degradation 
under unfavourable conditions, must render it amenable to 
elevation under the influence of conditions which are fa- 
vourable. And thus we learn that there is s, possibility of 
cure in states that would otherwise be beyond the reach of 
treatment. 



CHAPTER IX. 

Disinfection — Media by which the Catching Diseases abb 
Communicated — ^Means fob Preventing Infection and 
Contagion — Dieections foe the Sick Room and At- 
tendants—Precautions TO BE used by Doctors — ^Mode 
OF Cleansing Apartments after Illness — Proper Me- 
thods OF using Chloride of Lime^ Carbolic Acid and 
Condy's Fluid. 

Infectious and Contagious (catcliing) diseases, Scarlet 
fever, Small-pox, Measles, Typhus, Relapsing fever, Puer- 
peral fever, are communicated principally by the following 
media : — 

1. The breath. 

2. The secretions and excretions. 

a. The saliva. 

b. The perspiration. 

c. The urine. 

d. The evacuations from the bowels. 

e. The sputa. 

3. The skin of the body; especially the dead peeling skin 
and the powdered skin which adhere to clothing and are 
wafted about in the air. 

4. The body-clothes. 

5. The bed-clothing. 

6. Discharges from eruptions, abscesses, wounds, &c. 

7. The hair. 

8. The walls, floors, and furniture of apartments. 

It is probable that no infectious or contagious disease 
would spread if all these media were promptly disinfected. 



DISINFECTION. 135 

The difficulty lies, not in disinfecting any one of them 
when it is specially submitted to us, for that is easily 
done, but in keeping up such a rigorous system of disin- 
fection around the sick person, that none of these media 
shall escape disinfection ; for common sense tells us that 
if only one escapes the protection from infection may be 
lost. It is evident that the disinfection of the secretions 
and excretions must be performed as they leave the body, 
so that the air may not be infected during their pas- 
sage. For this reason the disinfectants put into spitting 
pots, urinals, and bed pans should be Volatile^ like Chlorine 
and Carbolic Acid, so that an atmosphere of the disinfectant 
may rise from the utensils while they are being used. 
I therefore, advise for these purposes Chloride of Lime 
and water, or Carbolic Acid, and they have the advantage 
of continuing to give off their disinfecting principles after 
the contents of the utensils are thrown down the drains. 

For most other purposes Condy^s fluid will suffice, it is 
clean, free from offensive taste or smell and not poisonous. 
It is not volatile but it disinfects whatever comes in 
contact with it. The air of a room therefore may be dis- 
infected to a great extent by freely dispersing Condy^s 
fluid with a spray producer. Clothes can be disinfected 
by being soaked in it. The skin can be disinfected by 
being washed with it. Sponges can be disinfected by 
being soaked in it, but sponges are dangerous spread- 
ers of infection and it is much better to use pieces of 
cloth, which can be burnt, and in cleansing wounds to 
irrigate them with a syringe. Linen and other washing 
materials can be disinfected by boiling, but they should 
be previously put into Condy^s fluid or diluted Carbolic 
Acid directly they are done with and kept in it for about 
two hours, otherwise they may spread infection before they 
are boiled. For all these purposes Carbolic Acid is most 
efficient but its smell is objectionable. 



136 DISINFECTION. 

Whatever is not susceptible of boiling but will bear 
baking can be disinfected by being submitted to a tem- 
perature of from 212° to 250° in an oven, and for greater 
safety a little Carbolic Acid should be put into the oven 
at the time. 

1. When a catching disease occurs in a house the 
first thing to be done is — to select a room for the patient 
as much -isolated as possible from the rest of the hou^e — 
a room through which no one has to pass and by which 
there are as few passers as possible — the top of the house 
is best as a rule. The room should have a window open- 
ing directly into the fresh air and an open chimney and 
fire-place, and it should be supplied with not less than 1000 
cubic feet of fresh air every hour for each occupant whe- 
ther patient or attendant.* Whenever practicable a se- 
cond room should be set apart near the patient's room for 
the attendants to cook and take meals in and to sleep in 
when off duty. 

2. The second thing to be done is — ^to remove from the 
room or rooms selected every thing that cannot be wash- 
ed, boiled, baked, or burnt, and then to hang over the 
outside of each doorway a curtain kept constantly wet 
with Condy's fluid. 

3. The third thing is — to decide who is to attend upon the 
patient. There should always be two persons and no 
more. They should cover their hair with washing caps, 
dress in washing clothes, and not associate with the rest of 
the household or with any other persons. They should 
each take at least six hours sleep out of the 24. They 
should each walk out in the fresh air 1 hour per day. 
They should wash their hands and faces with Condy's fluid 
and water when they leave the patient's room. They 
should avoid inhaling the breath or exhalations of the 

* See Ventilation and Heating. 



DISINFECTION. 13? 

patient and they should neither eat nor drink in the sick- 
room. 

4. The fourth thing is — to place in a comer of the pa- 
tient's room a large glazed pan containing water and 
Carbolic Acid or Condy's fluid. Into this pan every- 
thing that can be washed or boiled should be put, direct- 
ly it is done with, before it leaves the sick-room. The 
pan should be emptied night and morning or oftener. 

5. The patient should be sponged all over with warm 
water and Calvert's Carbolic Acid Soap twice a day (ex- 
cept during periods in which it may be thought unadvisa- 
ble by the doctor) and if the skin is peeling or powdery it 
should be anointed after the sponging with olive oil con- 
taining a little Carbolic Acid (about 10 per cent.) 

6. Chloride of Lime and Water or Carbolic Acid should 
be put into every utensil before it is used by the patient 
and after being used the contents should be immediately 
thrown down the drain together with some fresh Chloride 
of Lime. 

7. The patient's teeth and mouth should be washed with 
Condy's fluid, or Calvert's Carbolic Acid Soap and water 
several times a day and when there is any discharge from 
the nose or other passages these should be cleansed in the 
same way. When the discharges from the body are foetid 
Savory and Moore's Carbolic Acid Vaporiser should be 
burnt in the room. 

8. It must constantly be borne in mind that no amount 
or kind of disinfection will take the place of fresh air, and 
therefore the sick room must be kept freely ventilated, 
carefuUy amding draughts • Gas should not be burnt in 
a sick room. 

9. The doctor should not communicate with any other 
members of the household after he leaves the sick-room 

* See Ventilation and Heating. 



T38 DISINFECTION. 

and he should always be provided with a basin of water, 
Calvert's Carbolic Acid Soap, a nail brush, and a clean 
towel with which to wash his hands on leaving. 

Let it be especially remembered that the mmn 'points are 
the prompt disinfection of the infecting media enumerated, 
in the beginning of this Chapter, and the free circulation of 
fresh air. 

After the acute specific disease has run its course, in- 
fection may last as long as there are any unhealthy dis- 
charges left by the disease, as long as there is any peeling 
or powdering of skin, shedding of hair and the like; and 
precautions are needed for disinfecting these means of 
spreading disease so long as they exist. 

No doctor who has been in attendance upon Erysipelas, 
Scarlet fever, Puerperal fever. Typhus, Gangrene, Pyaem- 
ia, or who has been engaged in a post-mortem examina- 
tion should enter a lying-in-room until he has subjected 
himself to effectual purification and disinfection ; and it is 
a safe rule, under all circumstances, for a doctor not to 
touch a lying-in patient until he has washed his hands 
with some disinfectant. 

The difficulties of carrying out this rule are . very great 
in the hurry of practice, but every doctor engaged in 
Obstetric practice is bound to provide for doing so. And 
he should never go upon his rounds without some disin- 
fectant with him to mix with the water in which he washes 
his hands in case of unexpected need. 

To facilitate this important hygienic pecaution I have 
induced Messrs. Maw, the well-known instrument mak- 
ers, of 11 Aldersgate Street, and Messrs. Calvert the 
celebrated manufacturers of Carbolic Acid, to provide a 
little metal case containing a piece of strong Carbolic Acid 
Soap, a nail-brush, (for it is useless to wash the hands 
without brushing out the nails) and a little tube of Carbolic 



DISINPBCTION^ 139 

Acid, for medical men to carry constantly in their pock- 
ets when on their rounds. The whole is no larger than a 
small snuff-box. Directions for use are on the inside of 
the lid. It ought to be used by nurses and visitors upon 
the sick as well as by doctors. 

When the infectious period of the illness is over and the 
patient removed from the sick-room — everything which has 
been used or worn by the patient and attendants having 
been either disinfected or destroyed as already directed — 
the room must be thoroughly disinfected in the following 
manner. 

1. The doors and windows being shut, the room must 
be kept full of Carbolic Acid fumes for 12 hours by means 
of one of Savory and Moore's Vaporisers — ^Then the 
windows must be opened for 12 hours before cleaners and 
workpeople are admitted. 

2. The floors, paint, and fiirniture, must be washed with 
Water and Chloride of Lime or with Cal verts Carbolic 
Acid Soap. The ceiling and walls must be Lime-washed, 
after which the walls may be re-papered if required. While 
this work, is in progress a fire should be kept burning in 
the grate and the windows open. 



The following particulars as to the mode and proportions 
in which to use the Chloride of Limey Carbolic Acid, and 
Condy's fluid, mentioned above, have been kindly furbished 
by Messrs. Savory and Moore, and by Mr, Calvert, 

For fumigation by Chlorides, — Dissolve one pound of the 
Chloride of Lime in 4 gallons of Water and after stirring 
the mixture well allow it to settle, pour off the clear liquor 
and place in shallow dishes or other convenient vessels in 
the rooms and passages of the House. For use in cham- 
ber utensils, bed-pans, spittoons, &c., and where a volatile 



140 DIBECTIONS AND BSCIPES FOR THE SICE-BOOM. 

disinfectant is required, a wineglassful of the above solu- 
tion should be added to a pint of water. 

Garbclic Acid. — ^When required for the above purposes, 
that prepared "for Disinfecting" should be obtained — one 
ounce of this added to a quart of Water is suflSciently 
strong to purify drains, water-closets, &c. The mixture 
should be vigorously stirred or shaken (as Carbolic Acid is 
not readily miscible with water). Half a pint of this solu- 
tion put into any utensil used in the sick-room will disin- 
fect the contents and enable them to be preserved for the 
inspection of the medical men without any unpleasant 
effluvia arising. 

Carbolic Acid Oil for anointing patients should consist 
of Olive Oil and about 10 per cent of Carbolic Acid. 

Condy'sfluid, — For use either with the spray producer 
to disinfect rooms, for cleaning sponges or bandages, 
washing the skin of the patient, the personal use of Nurses 
or Medical Attendants, dressing wounds, &c. Condy^s 
fluid should be mixed with water in the proportion of a 
teaspoonful to a pint. Linen and Bed-clothes should be 
immersed in a solution made by mixing a wineglassful in 
a pailful of Water, diluted in this proportion it does not 
stain the linen. 



SPECIAL EECIPES, DIRECTIONS, AND APPLI- 
ANCES FOR THE SICK-ROOM. 

As this does not profess to be a " cookery-book^' only 
a few Medical-food Recipes will be here given, with some 
directions for the cooking and appliances of the sick-room 
which cannot easily be found elsewhere. — For the ordinary 
kitchen recipes the reader is referred to the cookery-books 



DIBECTIONS AND BECIPES FOB THE SICE-BOOM. 141 

of Miss Acton, and Mrs. Beeton, and to Cre-fydd^s 
" Family Fabe/' pp. 240 to 249. 

1. Fabinaceous Abticles should all be submitted to a 
temperature of 212° Faht. (boiling water) to make them , 
digestible. 

2. Beef Tea should not be boiled, and should not be 
strained through a fine sieve or muslin. It should be made as 
follows. Take of Rumpsteak, free from fat and minced, 
1 lb, cold water 1 pint, a pinch of salt. Put them into a 
jar and tie it down. Place the jar in a saucepan of cold 
water, raise this water slowly to boiling and keep it slowly 
boiling for two hours. Remove the jar and strain its con- 
tents through a very coarse sieve so that all finely powder- 
ed sediment may run through. Then pass a piece of bread 
over the surface to remove any fat that may float upon it. 

3. LiEBiG^s ExTBACT OF Meat and other similar prepara- 
tions. It is important to bear in mind that these contain 
very little, if any, nourishment properly so called, that 
is to say, they contain no plastic material, no fat, no sac- 
charine matter. Their principal virtues belong to the 
class of stimulants and blood-tonics. When mixed with 
water, they are excellent menstrua in which to administer 
nutritive materials, such as eggs, bread, oatmeal, cornflour, 
vermicelli ; but without such additions they are quite in- 
capable of supporting life for any length of time. Baron 
Leibig's own writings support this statement. Unless 
these facts are borne in mind a patient may easily be 
starved unintentionally. 

4. White of Egg difiers from the yolk principally in 
containing no fati On this account it is often better borne 
by bilious persons. Yolk of Egg contains 29'8 per cent 
of fat ; when the stomach can bear it, therefore, it is a more 
complete nutriment than the white. But white of Egg 
beaten up in milk answers every purpose. 



142 DIRBCTIONS ^D BBOIPES FOB- THB SICK-BOOM. 

Egos for the sick should be either raw, or very lightly 
boiled. They should never be given hard. 

5. Whey may be made either with Crosse and Blackwell^s 
Essence of Eennet, or with Treacle, or with Sherry, accord- 
ing to circumstances. 

a. Rennet Whey — ^see the Directions on Crosse and 
Blackwell^s bottles. 

b. Treacle Whey — ^pour three tablespoonfuls of best 
Treacle into a pint of new milk while it is boiling ; see 
that it boils up once after the treacle is added ; set it 
aside to cool and then strain. 

6. White Wine Whey is made in the same way as Trea- 
cle Whey, 3 glasses of sherry being used to a pint of 
milk. 

Note — ^When a more nutritious food is desired and 
suitable, well beat up the curds with the whey instead 
of straining ; see that they are not in lumps. 

6. All Animal Poods are apt to lose digestibility by re- 
peated cooking. 

7. Bread should be either toasted or 24 hours old. 

8. Special Restorative. I have found the following to 
be the most efficient restorative food, and the mixture is 
agreeable to most palates. 

New inilk (cold) 4 parts. 

Beef tea (cold) 2 parts. 

Brandy (pale) 1 part. 
If no other food is taken, about 5 fluid-ounces (a quarter 
of a pint Imperial) should be given every 2 hours, or half 
that quantity every hour. It should be sucked out of a 
syphon Infants-feeding bottle, not drunk out of a spoon or 
cup. When desirable this food may be gradually thickened 
by the addition of boiled corn-flour or other farinaceous arti- 
cles^ The flavour may be varied by adding difierent spices. 

9. Invalid Soup. The following InvaUd soup has 



OIBBCTIONS AND BEOIPBS FOfi THE SICE-BOOM. 143 

proved extremely useful in a large number of cases^ and 
since I first published the recipe in 1864 it has been usually 
kept nicely prepared by Mr. Donges, Confectioner, Gower 
Street, W.C. 

Gravy beef 1 lb., scragg of mutton 1 lb., isinglass 2 oz., 
vermicelli 3 ozs., mushroom ketchup 3 tablespoonfuls, 
corns of allspice 24, sage a sprig, cold water 3 quarts ; put 
the isinglass and the meat cut small into the cold water, 
gradually boil, skim well, and then add the other ingre- 
dients ; simmer four or five hours till reduced to 1 quart ; 
strain through a fine hair sieve, and carefully remove all 
fat ; add salt to the taste. This may be taken cold as a 
jelly, or warm as a soup. Calf s-foot may be used instead 
of isinglass when procurable — ^and when allowable a httle 
solution of cayenne pepper should be added ; and the taste 
may be varied by the addition of a little Worcester, or 
other wholesome sauce. 

10. COMBINATIOIJS OP ALIMBNTABT PBINCIPLBS IN IfBABLY 
EXACT NOBMAL PBOPOETIONS. 

a. Flour 4 oz., sugar 1 J oz., suet f oz., milk f pint Im- 
perial, 1 egg. — ^This will make a good pudding, or it may 
be given in any other form desired ; with the addition of 
a little cress and salt and water it forms a complete diet, 
upon a sufficient quantity of which a person can live health- 
fully for an indefinite length of time without any other 
food. 

6. The same may be isaid of the following. — Rice 3 oz., 
sugar 1 oz., 2 eggs, butter J oz., milk f pint (Imperial), 
water as much as is sufficient to boil the rice in. 

11. PoBT WiNB Jelly. Take of port wine 1 pint, is- 
inglass 1 oz., sugar 1 oz. ; put the isinglass and sugar into 
J pint of water, warm till all is dissolved, then add the 
wine, strain through muslin and set to jelly. (An excel- 
lent way of giving port wine.) 



144 DIRECTIONS AND BBCIPES FOB THE SICK-BOOM. 

12. Suet and Mile. Put a tablespoonful of shredded 
beef-suet into ^ pint of fresh milk, warm it suflBiciently to 
completely melt the suet, then skim it, pour it into a warm 
glass or cup, and drink it before it cools. If there is any 
difficulty in digesting the suet add 10 gr. of Pancreatine 
powder. (Savory and Moore^s.) 

13. Milk with Rum, Brandy, or Whiskey. Put 1 table- 
spoonfiil of Rum, Brandy, or Whiskey, into half a pint 
of new milk, and mix well by pouring several times from 
one vessel to another. " Bilious^^ persons should heat the 
rum before adding it to the milk. 

14. Ardent Spirits and their Peculiarities. Brandy 
makes people nervous, Gin weakens. Rum and Whiskey 
produce biliousness. Whiskey is the least objectionable. 
None should be taken neat, and when mixed with water 
or other fluids they should be well incorporated by pour- 
ing from one vessel to another. When Whiskey pro- 
duces biliousness. Rum, which has been made hot and 
then cooled, may be tried instead. — (See Alcohol.) 

15. Nutritive Bnemata. When nutriment is given in 
enemata the quantity should not exceed 2 to 4 oz., and 
the temperature should be about 80°. 

The bowel should be first washed out with half a pint of 
warm water. — An elastic bottle holding the required quan- 
tity is better for nutritive enemata than the ordinary en- 
ema syringe. They should be given while the patient is 
lying on the back with the hips raised on a pillow. 

16. Poultices. Linseed poultices should be made by fill- 
ing a muslin bag with crushed linseed, (not linseed meal) 
then putting it into a basin or dish and pouring boiling 
water upon it. — ^When thoroughly soaked it should be 
squeezed between towels till no water drips from it. The 
same poultice may be made hot four or five times by pour- 
ing fresh boiling water upon it. Bread poultices should be 



DIRECTIONS AND RECIPES FOIt THE SICE-ROOM. 145 

made of finely crumbled bread treated in the same way as 
the linseed. 

17. Fluids fob Inhalations should have a temperature 
of about 170°Faht. 

18. Warm baths should not exceed a temperature of 
98° without medical orders. 

19. The lights in a sick-room should always be placed 
behind the patient not in front. Gas should not be used 
at all. (See '^ Ventilation.'') Candles are better than 
lamps. 

20. A KuRSiNO Schedule should be used in all FeverSj 
Inflammations^ Surgical Cases^ and other Acute Illnesses. 

Those who have been called upon to bear the responsi- 
bility of the Nursing in a severe case of Fever, Inflamma- 
tion, Surgical Operation, or the like, will have a vivid 
recollection of the difficulties they encountered in carrying 
out the various Medical Orders upon the punctual attend- 
ance to which, through anxious days and nights, the 
patient's life depended. 

How to arrange the hours for Nutriment, for Medicine, 
for Wine, for Brandy, for dressing wounds, for external 
applications, for Sleep, Ac, Ac, without one important 
item clashing with another, is ofben a most puzzling ques- 
tion, requiring the details to be careftilly considered and 
arranged in writing, before it is practicable to work them 
out. 

Not unfrequently the orders left by the doctor are mis- 
understood, or found to be impracticable when they come 
to be put together and arranged according to time — ^the 
hours for dressing wounds or taking Medicine clashing 
with those for Food, the hours for Wine coming upon 
those for Brandy, or i^terfe^ing with the necessary sleep, 
and so forth. When the doctor has gone and, perhaps, as 
in country houses, cannot possibly be consulted again for 

L 



146 DIRECTIONS AND RECIPES FOR THE SICK-EOOM. 

many hours, it is difficult to overstate the distress of 
friends and nurses on discovering that orders, which have 
been impressed upon them with all the weight of questions 
of life and death, cannot be implicitly carried out from 
want of a consistent arrangement of their details. 

Happily for the sick, and for the doctors, nursing is now 
passing into the hands of educated Ladies and well trained 
Nurses, competent to understand and to perform with 
intelligence that systematic nursing to which the enlight- 
ened practical Medicine of the present day attaches such 
vital importance. And the introduction of the Clinical 
Thermometer and similar appliances into the sick room, 
makes it necessary in private houses (where there are no 
cUnical assistants or house-surgeons as in hospitals) to 
entrust the nurse with the task of keeping a register of 
the temperature, the rate of pulse and respiration, &c., at 
hours when the doctor cannot be in attendance. 

The doctor who believes in the importance of his own 
orders will be strict in requiring at each visit an accurate 
report of how they have been obeyed. The nurse who 
intends to obey them faithfully will not be satisfied unless 
she sees that they are both intelligible and practicable before 
the doctor leaves the house, and she should write them 
down directly he is gone.* 

* To meet the necessity thus arising in the sick room of the present 
day and to assist, at once, the patient, the doctor and the nurse, 
I have arranged "The Nuksiitg Schedule," and in order that it may 
be widely useful it has been brought out by Mr. H. K. Lewis, 136 
Gower Street, at as low a price as the expenses of paper, printing 
and publishing, will permit. 

Each sheet is arranged for the report of two days and two nights 
and contains directions for use. A doctor wishing the Nursing 
Schedule to be used in any particular case, has only to order it on 
his prescriptionj and the Chemist will supply it with the medicines. 



INDEX. 



PAOB 

Acid, wiDes and other fluids 

with least and most . . .63 
Air, fresh, conditions for supply 

of to apartments • • .IS 
Albuminoids, increase of, in the 

diet, in Bright's disease . . 88 
Alcohol, table, (notice) . .8 
; — tai)le, showing wie ana- 
lysis of spirituous liquors . 66 

• absolute, and proof 

spirit 64 

Anstie on, (notice) • 7 

fasts ... .88 

its oxidation in the 

body as food .... 7 

—^ its place in diet . . 6 

in disease, effects . 66 

acute .... 66 

chronic . . .68 

'< Leading article from 

Lancet" ..... 66 
Anscmia, a frequent vestige of 
severe diseases, and names of 
diseases under which it proves 
fatal ... . 112-17 

connection with rick- 

ets 116-17 

Anstie on alcohol, (notice) . . 7 
Apoplexy, relation of changes in 
olood vessels to . . .120 

vestiges of, the causes 

of other diseases . . . 109 
Arteries, atheromatous disease of 120 
Atrophy, vestiges of, the causes 
of other diseases . . . 110 

Banting's diet, (approximate ana- 
lysis! 7B 

Bantingism^ good and harm 
from, as a system of diet . 74 

Bathing 84 

Baths, '* cold friction*' daily use 

of 36 

warm .... 145 
Beef Tea . . ♦ . . 141 
Bernard, experiments showing 
morbid predispositions to be 
peculiar physiological condi- 
.tions 129 



PAGE 

Bowels, regulation of . .85 

Bread 142 

Bread diet, not sufficient to 

maintain health . . .61 

and typhus fever . 59 

BreakfEist, the second best meal 

of the day . . . .87 
Bronchitis, vestiges of, the causes 

of other diseases . . .105 
death from, in rickets 116 



Carbolic acid, mode of using for 
disinfection . . . . 140 

Carbon, heat of combustion of, 
with hydrogen . . • .49 

Change and rest . • . • 86 

see Postwre, 

Childbirth, death from rickets in 115 

Chill, severe, case of different 
sequelae from, in different per- 
sons .... 127, 129-80 

Chloride of Lime, model of usinff 
for disinfection . . . 189 

Cider, analvsis of . •. .66 

Climate of United Kingdom, 
rules for promoting and main- 
taining vigorous health in 12-47 

Clothing and protection from 
cold 14 

Cold, protection from, by cloth- 
ing . ' 14 

Colds, per eentage of causes of . 15 

Collins (B ) deatns in childbirth 
from fatty degeneration of 
Uterus . . . . .1^ 

Condy's fluid, mode of using for 
disinfection . • . . 140 

Consumption, taihles of diets for 

' carbo-hydrate 87 

albuminoid . 88 

; fluid diet . 89 

Contagion, see Infection. 

Cotton -wool, use of as a filter 
and respirator . . . 21-fi 

* * Cough (winter) Lectures on," 
notice 1ft 



148 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Debility, vestiges of, the causes 

of other diseases . . .110 
Degeneration, fatty, as a vestige 
of disease, its probable causes 
and effects . . . 118-26 
Denman's **What to drink," 

notice . . , . .64 
Dentition retarded, from rickets 115 
Diabetes, diet in .... 4 
rationale of a proper 



diet in . 

Table of diet for 

Diet. Tables of, (notice) 



84 
. 90 
. 8 
.53-9 



— Tables and analyses of 

— Tables of, for maintenance 
of health in adults in the cli- 
mate of the United Kingdom . 63-9 

— normal . . • . 4-6 

essentials of . 62, 61 

combination of ali- 
mentary principles forming^ a 143 

effects of neglecting 

.69 



even one of the esentials of 

modification of to 

suit the conditions of dis- 

68»Bo • • • • • 

— cheap diet, without meat 

— place of alcohol in 

— errors in . . . 



see Food, 
of disease 



served in 



principles of 
rules to be ob- 



78-9 

62 

6 

4 

4-6 
76 

82-4 



removal of ele- 
ments from, which increase 
function of diseased organs . 

avoidance of un 



80 



necessary reduction of variety 



in 



81 
4 
5 

59 



in diabetes .... 

in dyspepsia 

bread, and typhus fever . 

Digestion, healthy, conditions 
necessary to • . . .40 

Dinner, evils attending when 
taken at mid>day during busi- 
ness hours . . . 41-2, 47 

Disease, germ theory of . .21 

Lectures on the germs 

and vestiges of extracts from 91 

— vestiges of, mode in 

which they become causes of 
&,tality in other diseases . 100-1 

interdependence of , 1 

tables of, showing vesti- 



ges of disease as the causes of 
other diseases . . . 103-11 



PAGE 

Disease, diet of . . . 4-5 

-principles of . .76 



enects of alcohol in . 66 

contagious, media by 

which communicated . . 134 

Diseases of the Chest, a depart- 
ment of medicine not a speci- 
ality. 3 

Disinfection .... 9 
■ directions and pre- 

cautions .... 184-^ 

Dobell, "Lectures on winter 
Cough" extracts from . 15-19 

" Letter on London Noise 

and London Sleep*' . . .23 

Letter on " rroper hours 

for Meals" . . . . 88 
on the importance of dis- 



tinguishing between solid and 
liquid fate (from Chemical 
News) . . . . . 70 
on some principles of diet 



in disease (Lecture delivered 
at the Hospital for Diseases 
of the Chest) . . . .76 
" Lectures on the germs 



and vestiges of disease," ex- 
tracts from . . . .91 

Paper on periodical^ ex- 
aminations at public charities 
(notice) . . . . .96 

Dogmas, pseudo-medical, and 
rational medicine . . .10 

" Dust and disease," lecture on 
by Prof. TyndaU ... 19 

Dyspepsia, avoidance of unne- 
cessary reduction of variety of 
diet in . . . . .81 

acid, diet in . . 5 



"Education, Physical," extracts 

from Maclaren's work on . 32 
Egg, white and yolk of, &o, . 141 
Enemata, nutritive . . • 144 
Examination, periodical, impor- 
tance of, for the prevention of 

disease 92-9 

Exercise 31 

extracts from "Mac- 

laren on Physical education,*' 
on . . . • * • 88 
see Postwre, and Meeds. 



Farinaceous articles . . . 141 
Fat essential to healthy nutri- 
tion 70 



INDEX. 



14a 



PAGE 

Fat in the body, its character 

varied by food . . . -72 
importance of proper tood 

to supply Uie adipose tissue 

with 73 

see Pancreatic Emulsion. 

getting, or thin . . B, 73 

solid and liquid, importance 

of distinguishing between . 70 
Fatty degeneration, as a vestige 

of disease. . . . 118-26 
supposed 

causes of death in cases of 126-6 
Fermented liquors, amount 

which may oe taken daily 



by 



with advantage 
Fevers, contagious, media 

which communicated 
continued, vestiges of, 

the causes of other diseases , 
■ see Typhus, Typhoid. 
see Rheumatic Fever. 



8-9 
134 
108 



63 



Fluids, amount of acidity in 
Fogs and damp air as causes of 

colds 18 

Food, heat and motion . 5, 48 



connection with force 

— heat equivalents of, . 

— mode in which heat evolved 
from is disposed of . 

its precedence anong means 



of preserving health 

— table of the composition of 

some of the principal articles 

of 

see Diet. 



5 
49 

50 

6 



51 
49 
49 



Foot-pound, its mechanical force 
Foot-tons, mechanical equivalent 
of heat-units in 

Gangrene, senile, in tissues al- 
ready degenerate . . 123 
Germ theory of disease . .21 
Goloshes, use of . . . .15 
C^out, antecedents of, and rela- 
tions with constitutional dis- 
orders ... .96-6 

vestiges of, the causes of 

other diseases . . . 106-8 
Gulliver, atheromatous disease 
of arteries .... 120 

Habits, regulation of . . .9 
Health more required by modem 
men at their occupations than 
strength . . . . .33 

rules for promoting and 

maintaining in the climate of 
the United Kingdom . 12-47 



PAGE 

Heart and Pericardium, vestiges 
of diseases of, causes of otner 
diseases 104 

Heat, food and motion . 5, 48 

British unit of, mechanical 

equivalent of . . . .49 

heat-equivalents of food . 49 

evolution of, food required 



for 



evolved from food, mode in 



50 



which disposed of . . .50 
Heatinff and ventilation . .12 
Holland (Sir H.) on Symptoma- 
tic complaints (from 'Medi- 
cal Notes") .... 96 
Hybernation, supply of heat- 
giving elements in diseases re- 
sembling 79 

Indigestion common among 
those who live an in-door life 39 

Infection, means of preventing . 186 

directions for the sick- 
room and attendants to pre- 
vent 135-7 

■ precautions to be used 

by medical men . . .138 

• modes of preventing 

after illness .... 139 

Inhalation, fluids for, . . 145 

Interdependence of diseases . 1 

Jelly, port wine .... 143 
Jenner (Sir W.) "Lecture on 
Bickets," extracts from • . 114 

Kirkes, on fibrinous obstruction 
of cerebral arteries . . . 120 

Larjrngismus stridulus, connec- 
tion with rickets . . .114 

Liebig's extract of meat . . 141 

Lights in the sick-room . , 145 

Liquors, see Fermented, Malt, 
Spirituous. 

" London Noise and London 
Sleep" Letter on by Dr. Dobell 2S 

— Leader from the 
"Times" on ditto ... 26 

enumeration of special 

night noises . . , 24-5 

— — preventible ones 30 

Maclaren "on Physical educa- 
tion" (notice of) . . .9 

ditto, extracts from . 32 

Malt liquors, toJble of analyses of, 65 
Meals 37 



150 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Meals, proper hoars for 9, 88 

modem regulations of bngi- 

ness establisnments relative 
to, inoonsiBtent with healthj 
digestion . . . 39-40 

" regulations for improvinff 
the times of, connected with 
the obligations of business . 44 

.light, importance of during 

business hours . . .45 
see Dinner 



Measles, variety in attacks, from 

the same source . . . 127 
Meat, rules in loss of power of 

dig^tin^ 83 

Liebig's extract o^ . . 141 

Medical Men, the duties of, 91-3 
Medicine, departments of, which 

are not specialities . . 2-3 

^— rational medicine and 

pseudo-medical dogmas . . 10 
Milk, use in diarrhoea . 83 

and Suet .... 144 

with Spirit . . . 144 

Motion, heat and food . 5, 48 
" Mulder's Chemistry of Wine," 

extract from .... 64 



(( 



Kervous complaints, increase of 
from modem excessive compe- 
tition in commerce and the pro- 
fessions . . . . 27-9 
Koise of London . . . .23 
Nursing schedule, necessity for . 145 
Nutrition, healthy, necessity of 
preserving by diet in disease 77-8 

Olein, its relations to solid and 
liquid fatty bodies, . . .71 

Ormerod on fiatLy degeneration of 
the heart 121 

Oxygen, mean consumption of by 
adults ..... 49 



Paget (J.) remarks on fatty de- 
generation, Ac. , . 120-2 

Pancreatic emulsion . . .82 

Paralysis, vestiges of, the causes 
of other diseases , . . 109 

Periodical examinations, import- 
ance of, for the prevention of 
disease .... 92-9 

** Physical education" extracts 
from Maclareii's work on . 32 

Physiological States (abnormal) 

126-33 



page: 
Physiological conditions not re- 
cognised as disease, and yet 
not health .... 131 
— — — possibility of cure 

in ditto 133^ 

Pneumonia, a cause of death in 

rickets 11& 

■ &tality in from other 
chronic disease . . . 123 
Port Wine Jelly . . . .143 
Posture 34- 



see Exercise 



Poultices 144 



Recipes, &c., special, for the 
sick-room . . . 140-6 

Segimen 9* 

Regulation of habits ... 9 

Respiration, amount of air vitiat- 
ea by, per hour . . . IS- 

Respirator, the only protection 
from damp fogs, &c. . . 1^ 

Rest and Change . . .36* 

see Sleep 

Rest for diseased oi^ans, to be 
obtained by removing elements 
from diet which increase their 
functions 80' 

Restorative food . . . .142 

Rheumatic feyer, case of, and 
probable sequelae from want of 
precautions . . . 97-9^ 

vestiges o^ 

causes of other diseases . . 103- 

Rheumatism, vestiges of, the 
causes of other diseases , 107-8- 

Rickets, causes of death in . • -^^^ 

— connection with anaemia 

116-17 

— diseases in which they 

primarily or secondarily 

. 114-17 



are ^ 

the cause of death 
Rokitansky, cases of fatty degen- 
eration of Liver and Kidneys . 124 



Schroeder, cotton-wool as a filter 21 
Schwann, putrefaction of meat . 21 
Sickness, see Disease ^ 
Sick-room, special recipes, direc- . 
tions and appliances for, . 140-6 

Sleep 22 

in London , . . .23- 

Soap, invalid . . . . 142 
Specialities, narrow, in Medicine t 
Spirits, table of analyses of . 65 
ardentr their peculiarities 144 



INDEX. 



151 



PAGE 

Spirituous liquors, acid and su- 
gar in 63 

■ when to be 

taken, &g. . . . .138 
Steatosis of liver and kidney . 124 
Suet and milk .... 144 
Suj^ar, list of fluids containing, 

or free from .... 64 
Supper, unwbolesomeness of a 
late substantial . . .47 

TaMes of the composition of arti- 
cles of food . . . .51 

of Normal Diet for adults 

in the climate of the United 
Elingdom .... 53-9 
of Alcohol in spirituous 



liquors 65 

— of Mr. Banting's diet . 73 
of Diets, for Consumption, 



(carbo-hydrate, albuminoid, 

and fluid .... 87-9 
— of Diet for Diabetes . 90 
of the vestiges and inter- 
dependence of diseases . 103-11 
Teething, retarded, caused by 

rickets 115 

Temperature, sudden changes of, 

as a cause of colds . . .16 
Thin, getting fat or thin . 5, 73 
Tyndall, "Lecture on Dust and 

Disease** 19 

Typhoid, vestiges of, the causes 

of other diseases . . . 108 
Typhus feVer, loss of plasticity 

of tissues in . . . .60 

and bread diet . 59 

fatal issue in those 

dependent on mere bread diet 61 
vestiges of, the 

causes of other diseases . . 108 



PAGB 



Uterus, fatty degeneration of> 
deaths in childbirth from . 122 



Ventilation and Heating . 
facts on which ar- 



12 



rangements for, are to be 

based 13 

conditions of, for sup- 
ply of fresh air . . . .13 



Walshe, fatality of pneumonia 
from pre-existent organic dis- 
ease ... • . . . 125 

Water, preference of hot to tepid 
for friction bath . . .85 

see Baths, 

Water-proof over-clothing, ne- 
cessity for ... . 18 

Weakness from defective diet, to 
be prevented or at once remov- 
ed . . . . . .85 

Wet Feet, as a cause of colds 17-18 

Whey, directions for making . 142 

Wilks, remarks on sanguineous 
apoplexy, delirium tremens, 
angina pectoris, <&c., as con- 
nected with fatty degenera- 
tion 120-« 

Wines, table of analyses of . .66 

list of those with least 

and most acid in . . .63 
' list of those with or 

without sugar .... 64 

"Winter Cough" Lectures on, 
extracts from . . . 15-19 

percentage of 

causes of fresh colds in . . 15 

Woollen mateiial, necessity for, 
next the skin in winter 14, 16, 17 



CORRIGENDA. 

Pa^e 1 line 5 for interdependance read interdependence. 

10 8 dele comma between similibus a/nd curantur. 

— 64 21 insert heading of " Alcohol" . 

112 9 insert the word registered between are amd in. 

127 32 for analagous read analogous. 

128 33 for on, read of. 

128 34 for if, read in. 



OTHER WORKS BY DR. DOBELL. 



Practitioners' and Stndents' Onide to Physical Diagnosis. 

COLOURED PLATEa 

DEMONSTRATIONS OF DISEASES IN 

THE CHEST, AND THEIR PHYSICAL DIAGNOSIS; A 
Treatise on the Acoustics of Auscultation and Percussion— Direc- 
tions for Educating the Eai* by Experiments on Inanimate Bodies — 
Instructions for Practice at the Bedside — and Coloured Plates of 
thirty-six Pathological Conditions. Each Plate accompanied by a 
Statement of the Physical Signs to be observed during Life, and by 
a Corollary upon its leading points. 



LECTURES ON WINTER COUGH 

(CATARRH, BRONCHITIS, EMPHYSEMA, ASTHMA). 

*' The chapter on treatment is of great practical interest. We think 
this book calculated to make us more thoughtful and more successful in 
regard to a most important class of diseases."— The Lancet. 



REPORT ON THE EXPERIENCE OF 

MEDICAL MEN WHO HAVE USED "PANCREATIC 
EMULSION OF FAT." 1867. Issued in reply to the following 
Editorial note which appeared in the Lancet^ Nov. 17, 1866 :— 

*' It would be interesting to know to what extent the experience of 
those medical men who have used the * pancreatic emulsion* of fat ac- 
cords with that which Dr. Dobell has now recorded in our columns in 
about two hundred cases of consumption . . . The remedy has been 
placed fairly before the profession, the author reserving to himself no 
pecuniary interest or advantage whatever ; and if the utility of the re- 
medy bears any proportion to the large demand which has arisen for 
it, we ought to know this clearly, and to understand and appreciate our 
obligatioes." — Lancet. 

*' The pancreatic preparations are in high favour. ... To have in- 
troduced them is a good deed"— Med. Times and Gazette. 

" pancreatic Emulsion, as every one now knows, was originated by 
Dr. Dobell."— DuBLiv Quarterly Journal of Med. Science, (Nov. 
1867.) 



WORKS BY DR. DOBELL (Continued). 



ON THE TRUE FIRST STAGE OF CON- 

SUMPTION: Its Nature Diagnosis, and Treatment by Diet, 
Climate, Medicine, Etc. 



ON TUBERCULOSIS : ITS NATURE, causes, 

AND TREATMENT. With Note§ on Pancreatic Juice and 
Pancreatic Emulsion. Second Edition. 



REPORTS ON THE PROGRESS OF PRAC- 

TICAL AND SCIENTIFIC MEDICINE IN I>IFFERENT 
PARTS OF THE WORLD. Edited by HORACE DOBELL, 
M.D., Assisted by numerous and distinguished Coadjutors. 

" This is truly a valuable work, and Dr. Dobell v/ill not only receive 
for it the thanks of the physicians of his own country, but of those of all 
other countries. Every scientific fact of interest in medicine that has 
been brought out by the researches of the learned in the profession is 
here noted." — Cincinnati Medical Repertory, April, 1870. 

" Dr. Dobell, in projecting the serial work before us, has aimed at 
bringing together, in the English language, original and independent 
Reports from all parts of the World of New Researches in connection 
especially with Practical Medicine. The idea is an excellent one .... 
The work is an interesting one; a few references will show this." — 
Lancet, April g. 

" The work is difficult of analysis, but we trust we have already suf- 
ficiently indicated its practical value to show our readers that it should 
be in the hands of every busy practitioner of medicine." — New York 
Medical Gazette, April g. 

" The volume is cheerful in its style and aspect, its perusal easy, and 
it includes something interesting for everyone who cares for his Pro- 
fession. ... A sort of Medical Exhibition of All Nations, an admirable 
idea." — Medical Press. May 4. 



NEW BOOKS 

PUBLISHED AND SOLD BY 

H. K. LEWIS, 136 GOWER STREET. W.C. 

© 

Sir IXniUam Jemner, Burt., M.D., Ji.O.Jt., F.B.8. 

THE PRACTICAL MEDICINE OF TO-DAY: Two 

Addresses delivered before the British Medical Association, and 
the Epidemiological Society. Small 8vo, 15 6d, 



•Sidney Ring^er, M.D. 

PROFESSOR OF THERAPEUTICS IN UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, ETC, 

A HANDBOOK OF THERAPEUTICS. Sm. 8vo, nearly 

500 pages, cloth, los. 6t/. 

" The author, as we have said, designed the book simply as an introduc- 
tion to Therapeutics for the use of students and young practitioners. That 
to such it will be found most useful there is no doubt ; but we are also sure 
that, from the mass of valuable, readable, and well-arranged information 
it contains, and the numberless minor practical hints scattered throughout 
its pages, the work will be almost equally useful to the busy practitioner j 
and that it will receive from the profession generally the warm welcome 
which it deserves." — British Med. Journal. 

" The work contains a large amount of most useful matter, much of which 
will be novel to the English student. There is moreover an honest directness- 
of statement, and an apparent desire to balance opposing opinions with candour,, 
which is calculated to attract confidence We can scarcely doubt that the 
present edition will be quickly sold." — The Practitioner. 

"We can congratulate Dr. Ringer on turning out a book for which we predict 
almost certain success. Professedly founded on the admirable treatise of 
Buchheim, it is the embodiment of the best and most recent views on therapeu- 
tics. Dr. liinger wisely avoids collecting into an omnium gatherum everyildng 
that has been said as to the action of certain remedies. Such a melange is pre- 
cisely what IS not wanted. Quality, and not quantity, is the modern requisite- 
in therapeutics, and Dr. Bingor has done much to eliminate the certain from 
the uncertain. The classitication is the classification of Buchheim — the most 
scientific now in use— and Dr. Binger has also borrowed from the valuable, if 
diffuse, treatise of Claras. The works of Parkes and Still^ have also been con- • 
suited. Theremediesaregroupcdasfaras possible in accordance with the effects- 
of some substance common to or similar in all. A table of doses is added, and — 
a somewhat novel feature in a Medical work — there is a dietary for invalids* 
Altogether, within the small space available, a great deal of sound matter, 
most of it tested by careful clinical experience, has been collected." — Medical. 
Times and Gazette. 

" Dr. Sidney Ringer*s "Handbook of Therapeutics" is a very well printed, » 
very nicely bound, and a well cut book. The work bears evidence oi' carefui 
writing." — Medical Mirror. 



LIST OF NEW BOOKS. 



Joseph Toynbee, F.R.8. 

THE DISEASES OF THE EAR : Their Diagnosis and 

Treatment. With a Supplement by JAMES HINTON Demy 
8vo, 85. 6d. 

" The mantle of the master has follen upon a worthy successor, and in the hands 
of its present accomplished editor the volume « ill maintain its high position as the 
first text-book on the subject." — Medical Times and Gazette. 

'* Great credit is due to Mr. Hiktoh for the manner in which he has supplemented 
the labours of his deceased friend. The work in its new form constitutes a most 
reliable guide to the treatment of aural disease, and is without a rival in the English 
language." — Lancet. 



Liz won XViemejrer. 

A TEXT-BOOK OF PRACTICAL MEDICINE, With 

Particular Reference to Physiology and Pathological Anatomy. 
Translated from the seventh German Edition, by special permission 
of the Author. By GEORGE H. HUMPHREYS, M.D., and 
CHARLES E. HACKLEY, M.D. Two vols. roy. Svo, 1500 pages, 
365. 

"To America we owe a debt of eratitade for the work already done, and 
the debt is increased in no small degree by the translation of Niemeyer now 
before ns. The publication of these volumes brings within the reach of tiie 
busy practitioner, the student and the teacher in our schools, one of the best 
text-books in any language. As the translators say, " Professor Niemeyer's 
volumes present a concise and well- digested epitome of the results of ten 
years of carefully rendered clinical observation by the most illustrious medi- 
cal authorities of Europe," elaborated, we may add, by a most able teacher 
and an experienced physician. Like * Watson's Practice of Physic' in these 
islands, Niemeyer is a classic among the text-books of the Continent. To 
translate such a work worthily is no easy task, and we congratulate Drs. 
JBEumphreys and Hackley on their success. The style throughout is clear 
and good, and the rendering, though often close, has little, if any, of that 

ruggedness which so often mars an otherwise good translation Not 

the least valuable part of the book will be found in the therapeutical sec- 
tions, and the numerous formulsB, which are given most clearly, will prove 
a boon to many a hardworked practitioner. . . . We cannot omit the pi-aise 
due to the publisher. The type is good and clear, the paper excellent. The 
publishei has in a word, done his work in the same spirit as the translators, 
aud the result is very creditable to both." — Bbit. and For. Med. Cuir. 

BEVI£W. 



*8 and Pepper. 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE DISEASES OF 

CHILDREN. Fourth edition, roy. Svo, cloth, cut edges, 920 pages, 
265. 

''Good books on the diseases of children are so scarce that we cordially 
welcome this new edition of the once popular work of Dr. Meigs. The labour 
of revision was found to involve so many changes, and the addition of so 
much new material, that Dr. Meigs called to his assistance Dr. William Pep- 
per, a gentleman of large experience, and well-qualified for the task. The 
result of their joint labours is now presented to the public, and so great have 
been the changes that the volumu before us has really the interest of a new 
book." — ^New York Medical Record. 



LIST OF NEW BOOKS. 



Dr. IVickham ^eg^. 

A GUIDE TO THE EXAMINATION OF THE URINE. 

Second Edition, revised and enlarged, sm. 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d. 

" We are glad to welcome this little work .... Just what was wanted." — 
British Medical Journal. 

"This little work forms a concise guide to the complete * clinical' examin- 
ation of the urine .... The work is a very handy one, and we recommend 
the student to make it his companion in the wards of the hospital." — Lancet 
Jan. 8th, 1870. 

Spencer IVatson, F.R.C.8., Sng^. 

ON ABSCESS AND TUMOURS OF THE ORBIT. 

8vo, cloth, 6s. or in two parts, 35. each. 



Thomas Inman, M.D. 

ON THE PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. Demy 8vo, 

cloth, 160 pages, 5s. 

ON THE REST0RATI0n"0F HEALTH. 8vo, cloth, 

js. 6d. 

Charles Alexander Gordon, M.D., O.B. 

REMARKS ON ARMY SURGEONS AND THEIR 

WORKS. 8vo, cloth, 5s. 

S. Scott Alison, M.D. 

MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE THROAT, in their 

relation to Pulmonary Consumption. Post 8vo, 3s. 6d. 



Dr. Oh-aily Hewitt. 

OUTLINES FOR PICTORIAL DIAGNOSIS OF Dis- 
eases OF WOMEN. 4to, 6s. 



VTeber. 



CLINICAL HANDBOOK OF AUSCULTATION AND 

PERCUSSION. An exposition from first principles, of the method 
of investigating diseases of the respiratory and circulating organs. 
By JOHN COCKLE, A.M., M.D. With illustrations, i2mo, cloth, 
IS. 6d. (published at 55.) 



Ziindley. 

SYNOPSIS OF THE BRITISH FLORA. Arranged 

according to the natural orders. Containing vasculares or flowering 
plants, third edition, i2mo, 3s. (published at los. 6d.) 



LIST OF NEW BOOKS. 



ReT. J. Berkeley. 

INTRODUCTION TO CRYPTOGAMIC BOTANY. Nu 

merous woodcuts, 8vo, 5s. 6J. (published at £1,) 



Joseph Sampson Gam^e, F.R.C.S. 

THE STARCHED APPARATUS IN THE TREAT- 
MENT OF FRACTURES AND DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 
8vo, cloth, 55. 

John Henry Gbiesbach. 

ANALYSIS OF MUSICAL SOUNDS with illustrative 

figures of the ratios of vibrations of musical intervals and their 
compounds, temperament, harmonic vibration, resultant sounds, 
&c., &c. Small folio, cloth, £1 55. 



I>r. Dobell. 



THE NURSING SCHEDULE. To be used in Fevers, 

Inflammations, Surgical Cases, and other acute Illnesses. In packets 
reporting 14 days and 14 nights. 15. 



Alexander Bmce. 

OBSERVATIONS IN THE MILITARY HOSPITALS 

OF DRESDEN. 8vo, is. 



C. H. F. Ronth, M.D. 

ON THE CHEAPEST AND MOST NUTRITIOUS 

FOOD FOR CHARITABLE INSTITUTIONS AND THE POOR; 
Being the Result of an inquiry, made by desire on the Food supplied 
to the Hill Street Female Refuge. 15. 

Dr. Ri^by. 

TREATISE ON MIDWIFERY. Post 8vo, 3^. (published 

at 105. 6d.) 

Dr. R. Hooper. 

ON THE MORBID ANATOMY OF THE HUMAN 

BRAIN. Illustrated by coloured engravings of the most frequent 
and important Organic Diseases to which that Viscus is subject. 4to, 
16s. (published at £2 12s. 6d.) 

m THE MORBID ANATOMY OF THE HUMAN 

UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES ; With illustrations of the 
most important Organic Diseases to which those Viscera are Subject. 
Coloured plates, 4to, £1 5s. (published £2 35.) 



LIST OF NEW BOOKS. 



Dr. IV. Abbotts Smith. 

ON HUMAN ENTOZOA, AND THE DISORDERS 

PRODUCED BY WORMS ; With numerous engraving and a Glo- 
sary of Terms, 8vo, 8s. 

Robert Collins, M.D. 

PRACTICAL TREATISE ON MIDWIFERY; containing the result 
of 16,954 births occuring in the Dubling Lying-in Hospital, Svo, 5s. 
(published at 12s. 6d.) 

R. E. Oranty M.D. 

OUTLINES OF COMPARATIVE ANATOMY, ilustrations, Svo, 

cloth 5s. (published at 26s.) 



Dr. R. I«ee. 

LECTURES ON MIDWIFERY, ''svo, 6s. (published at i6s). 
ANATOMY OF THE NERVES OF THE UTERUS. 2 plates, folio, 

IS. 6d. (published at 8s.) 

R. D. Ziyons. 

HAND-BOOK OF HOSPITAL PRACTICE ; Or an introduction to 
the practical study of Medicine at the bed-side, with cases, &c. post 
Svo, 2s. (published at 6s. 6i.) 

TREATISE ON FEVER. 8vo, 6s. (published at i2sO 



Dr. J. C. Prichard. 

ON INSANITY IN RELATION TO JURISPRUDENCE. i2mo, 

cloth, IS. 6d. (pubished at 5s.) 



John Qnekett. 

LECTURES ON HISTOLOGY, Delivered at the Royal College of 
Surgeons, woodcuts, 2 vols., Svo, 12s. (pub. £1 8s. 6d.) 



Vof^el. 

PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY OF THE HUMAN BODY. Transla- 

ted by Dr. Day, plates, some coloured, 8vo, cl., 8s, (published at i8s.) 



Dr. "W. H. IValshe. 

NATURE AND TREATMENT OF CANCER, plates, 8vo, 3s. (pub- 

lished at i6s.) 



LIST OF NEW BOOKS. 



I>r. R. ITiniUams. 

ELEMENTS OF MEDICINE, (Morbid Poisons), 2 vols., 8vo, cl., 135. 
(published at £1 6s.) 

Dr. Forbes IVinslow. 

ANATOMY OF SUICIDE, 8vo, cl. 35. (published at 125.) 



MaraliaU HalL 

DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM, plates, 8vo, 3*. ^ 

(published at 155.) 

Dr. F. H. Hamilton. 

MILITARY SURGERY AND HYGIENE, 127 nhistrations, 8vo, 125. 

(published at £"1 55.) 

Tronsseaa and RereSl. 

THE PRESCRIBER'S COMPLETE HANDBOOK. Edited by 

Nevins, Square iSmo, limp roatij 2s. 6d, (published at 6s. ^.) 



Thomas Ohraham, F.R.S. 

THE ELEMENTS OF CHEMISTRY, including th« application of 

the Science in the Arts, illustiations, 2 vols., Svo, 125. (published at 

£2.) 



THE NEW SYDENHAM SOCIETY. 

Annual Subscription^ One Guinea* 

WORKS FOR 1870. 

I. 
TROUSSEAU'S CLINICAL MEDICINE, Vol. III. {now ready). 

NIEMEYER'S CLINICAL LECTURES ON PHTHISIS. Translat- 
ed by Dr. BAUMLER. {ready), 

STRICKER'S HISTOLOGY, Vol.* L With numerous illustrations, 
by Dr. POWER. {In the Press). 

TENTH FASCICULUS OF THE ATLAS OF SKIN DISEASES, 

{Preparing.) 

Names and Subscriptions of new Members received by any of the 
Hon. Local Secretaries, and by the Society's agent, Mr. H. K. Lewis, 
J36 Gower StreeL 



