Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 





^ 


.■ 1 

Manual of Diet, 

BT 
BUNCAN TtRKER, L.E.C.P. 


1 

1 


i 


L 



MANUAL OF DIET 



FOB THE 



INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC, 



WITH A FEW HINTS ON NURSJNG. 



BY 

DUNCAN TURNER, 

UCENTIATB 07 THX KOYAL COLLEGE OF FRTSICIANS, LONDON ; LICENTIATE 07 THV 
BOYAL COLLEGE OF SUBOEONS, EDINBVBGH ; LICENTIATE OF THE 
80CIETT OF APOTHSCABIES. 



SECOND EDm^, BEYISED ANIXENLABffttD. 



#■ 




LONDON : 

JOHN CHURCHILL & SONS, 
Nbw Burlikotok Stbsbt. 



1870. 



/<n 



Tu- 



/^/ 



II'COBQVOSILX & CO.j nUMTZRH, 8, CABDIXOTOIT VTREXtf UOXWilf, M.W. 






PEEFACE. 



Wheit I first thoQglit of printiDg the following pages it 
was chiefly with a view to their contents becoming useful 
to my own patients. Subsequent reflection has, however, 
induced me to hope the work may be found of service in 
a wider sphere. Although many excellent treatises have 
appeared on the subject of diet and nursing, many of them 
have missed their aim, being either too technical or too 
prolix for the generality of readers. The end sought in this 
essay is to convey the necessary information in a few words, 
avoiding so far ai possible technical terms, so that it may 
be intelligible to a reader of the most ordinary education. 
The busy medical practition^, who so frequently finds his 
instructions either forgotten or misunderstood, may likewise 
find it a help to him. 



53, Dbvonshixe Street, IsLiNaTONy 
October^ 1869. 



PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. 



The first edition of this little work haying sold in a few 
months, I have been at some pains to make the second 
issne still more suitable for the purpose for which it is 
intended. Some of the chapters have been re-written, and a 
considerable amount of new matter introduced. 

I have to apologise for the fact of its being several 
months out of print, but the more pressiog engagements of 
my profession have rendered this unavoidable. 



253, Essex Road, 

LoxDON, N., November, 1870. 



CONTENTS. 



rian 
CHAPTER L 



Digestion ftnd Natrition •• ••• • ••« 9 



CHAPTER IL 

Diet — ^Essential Properties of Diet — Natritive and Digestivo 
qualities of the different kinds of Food— The Diet mora 
particular!/ suited to the Sick and Inyalid — ^Bills of Faro 
for the Sick and Inyalid • 18 



CHAPTER m. 

Condiments — ^Their relation to Food — ^Use and Abuse of tho 
yarious CondimentSt.* • •■ ••• #•• • S(V 



CHAPTER IV. 

Drinks — Pure Water — Simple Infused Drinks — Infused 
Drinks that Act on the Neryous System— Fermented 
Liquors, Wines, Malt Liquors— Distilled Spirits ... ••• 82 



CHAPTER V. 

Dyspepsia— Definition of the term— Symptoms of Dyspepsia—* 
Causes of Dyspepsia— Treatment of Dyspepsia 44 



TIU CONTENTS. 

P1.0S 
CHAPTER VL 

Hints on Nursing — ^Importance of Domestic Norsing— The 
Sick Boom — ^Maxims on Nursing — Qualifications of a 
Nurse — Casualties in the Sick Room — Fainting,. Fits, 
Bums and Scalds, Vomiting, Contagion — On the ap- 
plication of Poultices and Stupes — ^The administration of 
Enemas — The application of Blisters — The application of 
Leeches— How to administer nourishment bj Enema — 
The treatment of Bed Sores 62 

Appendix of Formulae ... • •• • ... ••• ... 80 



A MANUAL OF DIET. 



CHAPTER I. 



DIGESTION AND NUTRITION. 

Digestion may be defined as the process to which food is 
subjected in order to become fit for absorption, and in a 
condition to nourish the tissues of the body. Although the 
stomach takes the greatest share in this process, it is not, as 
generally supposed, confined to that organ ; for digestion, 
properly speaking, commences in the mouth, and is not 
finished until the food is advanced a considerable way into 
the intestines. 

Mastication is the first act in digestion, and consists, as 
every one knows, in the comminution of the food into small 
particles, so that it may be more easily acted upon by the 
stomach and its juices. The human teeth, when perfect, are 
admirably adapted for this purpose, being evidently formed 
to masticate a mixed diet^ Thorough mastication is very 
essential to good digestion, for we seldom find those who 
have lost their teeth free from dyspepsia and the ills that 
accompany it. 

During mastication another process is going on called by 
physiologists insalivation. It consists in the mixing of the 
food with the saliva. Saliva is the product of various 
glands in the neighbourhood of the mouth, and is produced 



10 ▲ ICANUAL OF DIET 

in great abmidance daring mastication. It serves a double 
purpose — first, in acting chemically on the food so as to 
prepare it for the action of the gastric joice ; and secondly, 
in lubricating it so as to make it easier to swallow. That 
saUva is of great importance to healthy digestion may bo 
inferred from the fact, that a healthy adult secretes from 
fifteen to twenty ounces daily, and every one knows how dry 
and uncomfortable the mouth feels when digestion is bad, or 
when some disease or mental excitement possesses the body. 
When food enters the stomach, gastric juice immediately be* 
gms to be secreted. This fluid is produced by the stomach 
itself, and when healthy, has a remarkable power which en- 
ables it to dissolve all kinds of properly masticated food. 
Digestion is materially assisted by the muscular action of the 
stomach, which has an inherent power enabling it to contract 
upon itself, setting up a sort of churning process, which con« 
tinues so long as any food remains in it. The combination 
of these processes reduces the food to a homogeneous fluid 
called chyme, which escapes into the upper part of the smaD 
intestine, through the lower or pyloric orifice of the 
stomach. This orifice is possessed of a nervoas power, which 
enables it to distinguish between digested and indigested 
food, and will seldom allow any of the latter to pass through. 
Gastric digestion takes from one to three hours according 
to the quality of the food, and the vigour of the stomach 
for the time bemg.* When the chyme enters the duodenum, 
as the upper part of the bowels is called, it is acted on by 
two other fluids — viz., bile, and pancreatic juice. The former, 
as is well known, is secreted by the liver, and the latter by the 
pancreas, or sweetbread. The precise use of these fluids is 



^ Bj" Gftitxlo digeition " is meant the digtition that Uket jdace in tke itonwdk 



FOB THB IKYALID AND DTSPEPTIC. 11 

still a matter of dispute among physiologists, bat it is certaia 
that they play an important part in intestinal digestion, 
causing the nutritious part to be taken up for the nourishment 
of the body, while they enable the bowels to expel all effete 
and unnutritious particles. When the chyme is thoroughly 
incorporated with them its nature is changed, and it is now 
called chyle, and in this state it begins to be absorbed by 
the yilli of the bowels. The yilli are minute points so thickly 
placed on the internal surface of the bowels that they give it 
a yelvety appearance. Their office is to absorb the nutritious 
part of the chyle, and convey it to the vessels called lacteals, 
which in their turn convey it to the blood, where it is stored 
op for nutrition. The bowels are admirably adapted for 
this process, having an extensive surface for absorption, 
which is made still larger by numerous folds in their internal 
coat. These folds serve the double purpose of retarding the 
passage of the chyle to give the villi more time for absorp- 
tion, and of enlarging the absorbing surface. 

Nutrition may be defined as the process that converts 
the alimentary principle stored in the blood into organised 
tissue. Every tissue in the body has what is termed by 
physiologists elective affinity^ whereby it is enabled to select 
for itself elements suited to its constitution. Thus brain 
requires a certain element, muscle another, bone another, 
and so forth, and seeing that every organ is continually 
undergoing a process of decay, it is necessary that there 
should be a storehouse from which to draw the needed 
supplies for repair. Young animals, as a rule, in propor- 
tion to their size, require more nutriment than the fuU 
grown, the organs of the former requiring to be built up as 
well as kept in repair. 

The performance of healthy and efficient nutrition is verj 



12 A MANUAL OF DIET 

essential to the health and wellbeing of onr bodies, for we 
know that a great part of the ailments to which the haman 
body is liable is caased by some flaw in this function. 
Cancer, consumption, neuralgia, are all instances of disease 
arising from perverted or deficient nutrition. Many more 
might be named, but it is sufficient to mention here that all 
diseases arising from this cause are of a serious nature, and 
seldom amenable to treatment. Mal-nutrition arises from 
Tarious causes, but the chief of these is a depraved condition 
of the blood. This may be owing to some poison circulating- 
in it, such as the poison that gives rise to gout, rheumatism, 
or any of the fevers, or it may be imperfect aeration, either 
from the air breathed being deficient in oxygen, or the iunga 
in a diseased condition so that the blood cannot be properly 
exposed to the action of the atmosphere, or it may be owing 
to a diseased condition of the excreting organs that carry off 
the impurities of the blood, such as the liver and kidneys* 
A deficient supply of pabulum to the blood, either through 
a deficiency of food or bad digestion, will likewise cause 
poverty of blood and mal-nutrition. 

The symptoms of deficient nutrition vary in different indi- 
viduals, but there are always more or less debility and wasting 
of flesh. There may be a hacking cough, as in the first stage 
of consumption, or a painful tumour as in the case of cancer* 
Neuralgia in some nerves about the face and certain skin 
diseases are likewise frequent symptoms, but it is not neces- 
sary to enlarge on this subject, the intention of the author 
in this chapter being merely to explam the theory of nutrition, 
80 as to make the following pages more intelligible to the 
general reader« 



FOB THE INYALID AND DT8PEPTIC 1^ 



CHAPTER n. 



DIET— BSSENTULL PBOPEBTIES OF DIET — ^NUTBITIYB JLim^ 
DIGESTIYE QUALITIES OF THE DIFFEBEKT KINDS OF FOOD— 
THE DIET MOBE PABTICULABLY SUITED TO THE SICK AKD 
IKYALID — BILLS OF FABE FOB THE SICK AND IKYALID. 

For all practical pnrposes^ food may be classified under the 
two general heads, animal and vegetable. The elaborate 
classification of the chemist may be omitted here, nor is thera 
any occasion to enter into the vegetarian controversy. Every 
nnprejadiced person must admit that a mixed diet is the 
most nataral as well as the most suitable and agreeable to 
civilized man. 

The body, as mentioned in the previous chapter, is com- 
posed of a number of elements, and the food and drink we 
take must contain a certain proportion of these to make up 
for the waste that is continually going on. Seventy per cent, 
of our bodies is composed of water only, but as water is. 
not generally considered an article of diet, we shall not 
consider it here.* 

Next to water, azote or nitrogen forms the largest part 
of animals, and it is therefore necessary that the diet we 
consume should contain a considerable quantity of this 

* Water is not, strlotly speaking, an element, but made np of two elements^ 

»y1z., Hydrogen and Oxygen. 



14 A MANUAL OF DIET 

element. The flesh of animals^ eggS| niilk, Ac*, contaui 
a large qaantitj of it, and are therefore called tbe nitro- 
genous foods« They are undonbtedlj the most nutritions of 
our foods, but by themselves thej form a too concentrated 
diet, we therefore mix them with a proportion of yege- 
table. Vegetables contain a considerable quantity of 
the element called carbon. This is generally called the heat- 
giving element, and is supposed to combine with the oxygen 
of the air we breathe, causing a slow combustion in the 
blood and thereby heating the body. It must not be sup- 
posed, however, that heat-giving is the only property of 
vegetable diet, for we know that many vegetables contain a 
large quantity of real nutriment, and though it is very doubtful 
whether man could thrive on a purely vegetable diet, it is 
certain that fresh vegetables have a healthy action on the 
blood, and that the want of them nearly always begets 
scurvy, as in the case of sailors during long voyages. Many 
other elements enter into the composition of our ordinary 
foods, but those mentioned are the principal, and a doe 
proportion of each of them is always necessary. The 
essential properties of diet might be said to consist in a due 
supply of animal or nitrogenous food, vegetable or carboni- 
ferous food, with abundance of water. 

The various ingredients composing our diet ought to be 
fresh and of good quality. This is of great importance to 
invalids who are extremely sensitive to decomposed or 
tainted food. 

It is well known that German sausages when kept for 
some time become poisonous, and high game will often 
cause serious symptoms in those unaccustomed to it. 

Fish, rabbits, and fowls, hawked in the streets of London, 
axe usually tainted and unfit for food. All kinds of sausages 



FOB THE mVALW AND DTSPEPTIC. IS 

and sonps are dangerons ; for being generally highly sea- 
soned the taint in them is not readily discoyered. The 
writer has known cases of severe and protracted illness to- 
persons who had partaken of these articles of diet at cook* 
shops and restaurants^ where they are often kept until 
partially decomposed. 

Vegetable food is not so liable to decay as animal, bat 
bread if kept for more than three days gets mouldy and 
unwholesome. The watery vegetables such as cabbage, 
cauliflower, and spinage, decompose very soon, and in that 
state are very apt to cause diarrhoea and other gastric 
disturbances. 

The quality of food is of more importance . than many 
people imagine. The flesh of diseased animals, fish out of 
season, and diseased grain have all been known to cause 
poisoning symptoms in men and animals. It is not yet 
proved how far the flesh of cattle killed while infected with 
Rinderpest, Pleuro-pneumonia, &c., is dangerous to man, for 
we know that the carcases of such animals are almost daily 
sold in the London markets, and we seldom hear of any ill 
consequences. We know, moreover, that in the Highlands 
of Scotland large quantities of what is called braxy mutton 
are consumed, and it is considered wholesome diet. We 
know however that meat infected with parasitic disease ia 
highly dangerous. The best example of this is the trichinia 
in pork, which in Germany has assumed the form of a fatal 
epidemic on more than one occasion. Other parasites, such 
as the measles in the pig, produce tape-worm in man, and 
what are called flukes in sheep become hydatids in the 
human subject. 

It is well known that fish, during and immediately after 



"16 A MANUAL OF DIET 

^he spawiiing season, is very nnwholesome, and shell fish is 
occasionally poisonous. Certain species of fish found in 
tropical seas are exceedingly poisonous, and have on more 
than one occasion proved fatal to European sailors ignorant 
of their properties. 

Vegetable food is not so liable to disease as animal, and 
most of the parasites that infest it, such as mites, &c, are 
harmless. The only really dangerous disease in grain if 
what is called ergot. It is principally found in rye, but 
occasionally in wheat, barley, and oats. On the continent 
it has on several occasions invaded whole districts, and the 
meal made from the grain proved fatal in many instances. 

Food adulteration is too wide a subject to be entered into 
in a treatise like this, but I would refer the reader to the 
excellent treatises of Dr. Hassall and Dr. Letheby on that 
subject. 

In discussing the digestive and nutritious properties of 
ihe various foods, we will take milk first. This is the only 
perfect food presented to us by the hand of Nature. In it 
slone do we find all the elements necessary for the nutrition 
of the body. It partakes of the character of animal and 
vegetable diet, and is highly nutritious, especially to the 
young, for whom it is especially suited. It is the food 
adapted for infants, and nothing else should be given for at 
least six months after birth. If an infant cannot have its 
mother's milk, the next best substitute is cow's milk, diluted 
with a tlurd of water and sweetened with refined sugar. 
It is a great mistake to add arrowroot, corn-flour, or other 
fltarchy food to infants' food. The infant's stomach can only 
digest milk ; and anything else will generally cause griping 
and diarrhoea. 



FOB THE INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 17 

The following excellent directions on the dieting of 
,i. children are from Dr. Letheby's " Lectures on Food." 

"As regards the dietaries of children, it may be stated 
generally that the chief part of their food should be milk. 
Up to the age of nine or ten months it should, if possible, be 
ihe milk of woman, which is richer in sugar than cow's milk, 
and much less rich in caseine; failing this, however, ass's 
milk is a good substitute, as it contains nearly the same 
amount of sugar and caseine as human. 

" Cow's milk, therefore, diluted with about one-thfrd its 
bulk of water, and sweetened with sugar, may be given to 
children; and up to six or seven months no other food 
should be administered, for infants have not the power of 
digesting farinaceous or fibrinous substances. A child may 
take from two to three pints of milk thus diluted daily. 
After seven months, and to about twenty months, farinaceous 
matters may be mixed in gradually increasing quantities 
with the milk; and they should be well cooked by first 
baking them, and then thoroughly dissolving them by boiling. 
After this age, and up to the third year, the quantity of well- 
. cooked farinaceous matters may be still further increased, 
' and given a3 puddings with a little egg. Bread and butter 
may also be eaten, and towards the end of the time the child 
will digest well-boiled potato with a little gravy of meat. 
From the third to the fifth year a little meat may also be 
given, and at the end of the ninth year it may partake of 
the usual food of the family ; but all along it should make 
use of a large proportion of milk, in the various forms of 
bread and milk or milk puddings with eggs. About the 
tenth year a child will require about half as much food as a 
woman, and at the fourteenth year it will eat quite as much 
as a woman ; in fact, the proportion of food required by J^e 



18 A MANUAL OF DIET 

child is much greater per poand-weight of the body than by 
adults, because it has to form its tissues and build up its 
several structures." 

It is unfortunate that beer has displaced milk in a great 
measure with adults. Few now look upon milk as either 
food or drink, and from the fact of its being taken so 
seldom, it frequently disagrees when taken, the stomach 
having got too accustomed to stimulating beverages, such 
as beer, wine, tea, or coffee. The strength and health of the 
Irish and Scottish peasantry, who consume seven pints 
weekly of this food, are in a great measure due to its invigo- 
rating and nutritive powers. On the other hand, we find 
the weakly London operative only consumes about as many 
ounces in the same space of time, but takes his seven pints 
of beer instead. If the London poor could only be con- 
vinced of the superiority of milk over beer in nourishing 
properties, our metropolitan hospitals and workhouses would 
soon cease to be so crowded. 

In Switzerland there are establishments where patients 
undergo what is called the milk treatment, pure milk being 
used, so far as possible, as the sole article of diet. There is 
certainly more common sense in such treatment than in the 
Hydropathic system of this country. When milk is not 
retained on the stomach it ought to be mixed with one-half 
of lime water ; taken in this way it is exceedingly light, and 
will be retained when anything else would be rejected. 
Asses milk is lighter than that of the cow, and is frequently 
recommended to consumptive patients and delicate infants. 
Cream is the oil of milk, and more nutritious than milk, but 
it is more difficult to digest. It is, however, easier to digest 
than most animal fats, and is frequently taken with advan* 
tage by consumptive invalids. Butter is an article of diet 



FOB THE INVALID AMD DTSPEPTIC* 19 

that enters, one way or another, into abnost every meal we 
take; it is light and nutritions, and seldom disagrees. 
Melted butter, as sauce, and butter with hot toast are, 
however, two exceptions, for in this way butter is converted 
into oil, and rendered most difficult to digest. Cheese need 
only be mentioned to be forbidden both to the invalid and 
dyspeptic. 

Butter milk contains only about half the nutriment of 
good sweet milk. It should be used when it is quite fresh, 
for when it stands a few days it becomes sour and is liable 
to upset the stomach. Whey is another product of milk, 
obtained in the process of cheese-making ; it contains little 
or no nutriment, and will be noticed in the chapter on 
drinks. 

After milk comes the farinaceous aliments. They form a 
numerous class, and minister more than any other to the 
maintenance of the human race. Wheat may be taken as 
the representative of this class, and is consequently the most 
universal of our foods. It contains a larger quantity of 
pure nutriment than any other purely vegetable diet, and 
when properly cooked is not difficult to digest. Good 
sound wheaten bread, made with barm and moderately stale, 
seldom disagrees with any one, and a portion of it ought to 
enter into the composition of every meal taken by people in 
health. Bread ought to be twenty-four and not more than 
seventy-two hours old. When eaten before or after these 
periods it is neither wholesome nor digestible. Wheaten 
flour mixed with bran, composing what is generally termed 
brown bread, is useful to those who are troubled with a 
sluggish action of the bowels; and taken regularly it often 
cures the most obstinate constipation. I would here enter a 
protest against the use of all sorts of fancy cakes and 



20 A MAKUAL OF DIET 

i 

blscnits made at the confectioner's. They frequently contain 
rancid bntter and very impure sugar, with many other in- 
gredients not less noxious, which render them difficult to 
digest, and positively hurtful to many weak stomachs.* 

Barley is less nutritious and less digestible than wheat, 
and unsuitable for either inyalid or dyspeptic. 

Oatmeal is an excellent article of food, and when suitablj 
cooked is a valuable diet for the invalid. When mixed with 
boiling water, to which salt has been added and stirred for 
some time, it forms what is called in Scotland, porridge. 
This taken with milk makes a nutritive and easily digested 
meal well suited for those who have sedentary occupations. 
Thickened gruel taken with milk in the same way is a very 
light diet and well adapted for the sick Rice is a very 
important food, not so much used amongst us as it deserves. 
It forms almost the sole article of diet to millions in the 
east, and though rather insipid, is nevertheless highly 
nutritious and easy of digestion. Kice requires some hours 
to boil ; and when intended for an invaUd, ought to be boiled 
into a pulp. 

Indian com and rye meal are not fit for invalids, they are 
harsh in taste and apt to turn acid on the stomach. From 
the former, com flour or maizena is made, an article used 
largely for puddings and children's diet. Its nourishing 
properties are not great, but it is very easily digested. 



• " A prorision dealer at Sheffield, named Charles Fielding, hat been sum. 
moned for sellinf 350 lbs. of putrid butter, which he at once admitted waa » 
regular article of trade, and sold largely to ' fancy bread ' confectioners, who 
paid Od. per lb. for it. The butter was Canadian, and the importance of the 
trade may be imagined, when he stated that he sometimes had 17,000 lbs. of this 
delectable compound on his premises. For this system of wrong doing, Mr. 
Fielding was fined 20s., the extreme penalty of the bye Jaw. Is it not time to get 
these tje Jawi altered 7' *-^Fo^ Journal. 



FOB THE INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 21 

The foods obtained from the legmninoas vegetables, such 
as pea meal, bean meal, and lentils, are not adapted for 
invalids, they are apt to cause flatulence. Lentils ground 
fine and sifted, form the sole ingredient in the celebrated 
Reyalenta Arabica food. 

The starchy foods such as arrowroot, sago, tapioca, 
tons le mois, &c., are largely used by invalids and people of 
weak digestion; they do not contain much nutriment ia 
themselves but are elegant vehicles for more nutritious food, 
such as milk, eggs, beef tea, &c. Their digestive and 
nutritive properties are much the same, and either may be 
used according to choice. Arrowroot is very liable to 
adulteration on account of the high price of the finer 
varieties, for this reason it is better to avoid it, unless we 
are certain of its quality. 

Succulent vegetables come next in order. Though 
excellent food to people in health, a few of them only are 
admissible to the invalid's table. Nearly all contain a 
stringy part that is difficult to digest, and they have also a 
tendency to produce flatulence. The potato is perhaps 
the most universally used of all vegetables, and is certainly 
the most useful to man. It contains a considerable quantity 
of nutritive element, and when good, is not difficult to digest. 
Good potatoes' should be dry and mealy when boiled, and 
ought not to leave any bitter taste in the mouth. Of lato 
years some species of potatoes have found their way to the- 
London market that are positively poisonous. It is welV 
known among farmers that the coarser kinds of this vege- 
table have the greatest immunity from disease, and hence- 
the great temptation to grow and sell them. 

Cabbage, cauliflowers, and spinage, are excellent additions 
to our diet when health is good, but are seldom aUowable 



22 A ILANUAL OF DIET 

^hen digestion is weak. The esculent roots, such as 
carrots, parsnips, turnips, onions, &c., may be used 
sparingly by the inyalid. Raw yegetables, such as 
radishes, watercress, cucumber, &c., are not fayonrable to 
^digestion, and ought to be avoided. 

Fkuit, properly cooked, is an invaluable article of diet to 
the sick and invalid. It is cooling, agreeable, and easy of 
digestion. Raw fruit should, however, be avoided, unless 
specially ordered. For the different modes of preparing 
fruit for the sick, see Appendix. 

Fish occupies an intermediate place between animal and 
Tegetable diet, and is extensively used by all classes. 
Though not so nutritious as beef or mutton, the fact that 
whole communities subsist and enjoy good health on a diet 
composed chiefly of fish, shows that it contains most of the 
•elements essential to the nourishment of the body. 

Salmon is the most nutritious of our fishes, but being 
oily, it is rather difficult to digest, and therefore not a 
proper diet for the invalid. Salmon trout is lighter, but 
less nutritious. Small fresh water trout is exceedingly 
delicious and easy to digest, and is often a rare delicacy to 
the invalid who has gone the round of the lighter foods and 
tired of them all. Whiting, " the chicken of the sea," is 
the tenderest of all our fishes, and when in season ought to 
form a portion of every invalid's diet. It seldom disagrees, 
and contains a fair quantity of nutritious element. Haddock 
comes next to whiting in point of tenderness, and sole next. 
There is but little difference between the three last-named 
species, either in point of digestion or nutrition, and either 
may be taken by the invalid according to taste or inclina- 
tion. Cod is an excellent article of diet, and when in 
eeason may be partaken sparmgly of by the invalid ; but, 



FOB THE INYiXm AND DTSPEPTIO. 2^ 

on the whole, is not so digestible as aoy of the three specie* 
mentioned abore. Eel, skate, and plaice are too oily for 
the weak stomach. Shell fish need only be mentioned to bo 
forbidden. Native oysters, when in season, may be partaken 
of sparingly, but all others onght to be avoided by the 
invalid and dyspeptic. 

Pnre animal food contains the largest amount of nutritious 
principle, but, as already observed, is in itself too concen- 
trated and too stimulating. A moderate quantity of this 
diet is therefore allowable, but those who think that they can 
get strength and vigour by consuming large quantities of it 
will find themselves grievously mistaken. Nature will not bo- 
forced, and if she appears to give way a little at first, it is only 
to revenge herself more fully afterwards. Trainers who tem- 
porarily improve the condition of men and animals for brutal 
purposes know well the direful consequences of over feeding,^ 
and will seldom resort to it twice on the same subject. A 
great mistake is frequently committed in this way by patients 
recovering from a severe illness. They think that when tho 
appetite is good they cannot take too much food, or that tho' 
food cannot be too nutritious for them, until, after a time^ 
they either find themselves at a standstill, or their stomachs- 
turned completely against all kinds of diet, with perhaps a- 
return of the symptoms of the disease from which they 
suffered. Great caution is often necessary in this respect, 
and when a patient finds his food is not doing him so much 
good as it ought, he should on no account increase the- 
quantity or take it more concentrated, but rather seek a. 
change of air to enable him to assimilate what he is taking, 
and then, and not till then, will he derive from it the benefit 
he expects. 



24 ▲ MANUAL OF DIET 

In considering pnre animal foods, eggs seem to come 
naturally first. They are really animals in embryo^ and 
hare every attribute of an animal. They resemble milk in 
being nearly a complete food in themselves, containing most 
of the elements necessary for the nutrition of the body. 
When lightly boiled they are easy to digest. They are 
rather too stimulating when the digestive powers are very 
weak, but convalescents may take a new laid tg^ for break- 
fast in preference to anything else. Eggs that have been 
kept for some time get stale and unwholesome, and are very 
liable to upset the stomach of an invalid, and give him a 
disgust for all kinds of food. Game, when kept a proper 
time, has an exceedingly delicious flavour, and is highly 
nutritious and moderately easy to digest. It is an unfortu- 
nate epicurean fashion that has crept in upon us to keep 
game until it is what is called highy or in other words half 
decomposed. In such a state it is apt to cause serious di- 
gestive derangement to the delicate, and loses a great part 
of its nutritive qualities. The flesh of tame birds, when 
young, is even more tender than game, but not so nutritious. 
The legs and wings are better for the invalid than the 
breast. The common fowl is the best as regards diges- 
tion. Goose is rather oily, and turkey is insipid. Beef and 
mutton are too well known to require much description here. 
Their nutritive powers are much alike ; of the two mutton 
is the easier to digest. This fact is generally well known, 
And hence we find patients kept on mutton chops for an in- 
definite period, until they get a disgust for mutton in every 
£hape. There can be no greater mistake in nursing an in- 
Talid than to offer him the same food too often. The very 
sight of a dish which has come before him too frequently 
will not seldom take away his appetite and spoil it for any- 



FOR THE INVALID AND DTSPEmC. 25 

thing else. Pork, unless yerj young, is not soitable for the 
invalid or dyspeptic. It frequently causes diarrhoea and 
other gastric disturbances. 

Venison is the flesh of wild animals of the deer species. 
It contains less fat and more blood than either beef or 
mutton, and is very nutritious and easy of digestion. To 
the inyalid- it forms an agreeable change when he is tired of 
the ordinary animal foods. Venison soup when properly 
made is exceedingly delicious. 

A certain amount of fat is essential to every one, whether 
invalid or not. Some people, and especially invalids have & 
great objection to fat, but this is very often a mere whim 
and could be easily got over by a little perseverance, 
especially if the individuals persuade themselves that & 
certain amount of fat is necessary to maintam good health. 
Patients labouring under certain diseases, as consumption, 
are often unable to digest fat, and to obviate this difficulty 
a very useful remedy has been invented, viz., Pancreatic 
Emulsion, which has the power of dissolving fat, and so 
rendering it fit for absorption.* 

The Diet more particularly suited to the Sick and 
Invalid. — The proper selection of a suitable diet for the sick 
and invalid is of the greatest importance. It is a subject that 
has not hitherto received the attention it deserves. Few 
physicians will now deny that in many cases a proper diet, 
given at the proper time, is of as much importance to the 
sick as medicine, and that the life of many a patient depends 
on its jadicious administration. It would be impossible to 
lay down any rules with reference to the dietmg of the sick 
in any special case of disease, for each case must be judged 



* Sold by Savory A Moore of Regent Street, London. 



26 A MANUAL OF DIET 

bj its own merits and treated accordingly, bnt a few general 
propositions may be given which will be a guide to the nurse 
and refresh the medical practitioner's memory. 

In giving food to the sick three things ought to be kept in 
mind-^viz. : Not to place before the patient more food than 
he can take ; not to leave food in his sight ; and not to offer 
Lim (except for special reasons) what he has already refused. 
These rules apply almost in all cases. In the first stage of 
acute diseases it is absolutely cruel to be pressing food on 
the patient ; he loathes all kinds of food, and if you cause 
liim to take a little it only adds to his misery. Drink is 
what is wanted in this stage, and ought to be given with 
unsparing hand. A small quantity of nutriment is generally 
given with drink, such as gruel, toast water, barley water, 
etc. When the first violence of the disease has expended 
itself, mild liquid diet, such as milk and water, arrowroot 
with milk, stewed fruit, a thin slice of toast with a cup of 
tea, may be given sparingly. If the patient is very low, beef 
tea may be given in this stage, but when possible it is better 
to retain this valuable agent for the next stage. The third 
fitage refers to that period generally termed the crisis, or 
■** turn," when the violence of the disease has completely 
subsided but recovery has not yet commenced. This is a 
period of great importance, and frequently tries the skill of 
the physician and nurse. The judicious administration of 
food in this stage is of the utmost importance to the patient. 
A more nutritious diet is borne, and ought to be administered 
at shorter intervals, and in increasing quantities. The broths 
come in now ; beef tea is certainly the best of these, but a 
patient will soon tire of it. Mutton, veal, and chicken broths 
may be given in their turn ; they are all of the same nature, 
and change is everything to a patient. Thin toast cut into 



FOR TH9 INVALID AND DTSPETnO. 27 

sqaares may be occasionally mixed with them, or a little 
stimulant, as brandy, if ordered by the medical attendant. 
Custard, sago with milk, corn-flour, or any of the light fari- 
naceous diets are admissible in this stage, and may be given 
fu^cording to the patient's taste. The next stage is the 
stage of convalescence, and in it the patient has frequently 
a desire for more food than he is able to digest. It is neces- 
sary to be exceedingly cautious not to overload the stomach 
of a patient recovering from a dangerous illness, as serious 
harm might ensue; far better too little than too much 
in this stage. The broths should be continued, and 
may be given more concentrated now. The lean of a 
mutton chop boiled or roasted, chicken in small quan- 
tities, whiting, haddock, sole, or trout, as they are in 
season, native oysters, turtle soup, light puddings made 
with any of the starchy foods, tender roast beef, mutton, 
or lamb, are occasionally admissible. In choosing a diet 
from the above, it is well to be guided a great deal by the 
patient's taste. Unless in exceptional cases it is better not 
to force a patient to take any thing against his will. What 
is forced upon him will seldom do good and not unfrequently 
do harm; besides, a patient recovering from an ilbess is 
very whimsical; what he cannot bear to-day he will take to- 
morrow with a relish, and he will seldom take the same dish 
three times in succession. It is better to humonr him in his 
fancies, so long as they keep within the bounds of moderation, 
but if they stray, as they not unfrequently do, to the most 
indigestible of viands, it is necessary to be firm and deny any- 
thing that would tend to upset the digestive organs. The 
illness that accompanies the first months of pregnancy in 
some women is often accompanied by an excessive desire 
for the most outrageous things, and the disorder is frequently 
aggravated by giving way to these fancies and indulging in 



28 A MANUAL OF DIET 

articles of diet that would upset the stomach of a nawj. 
The diet most suitable for an invalid must be regulated in 
a great measure according to the nature of his infirmity, and 
it is only necessary to mention here that as a rule it should 
not be too concentrated or consist of articles that take a 
long time to digest. An inralid ought not to fast too long 
and ought to be careful not to indulge in a full meal when 
the body is fatigued. Invalids suffering from chronic chest 
affections, as asthma, or chronic bronchitis, cannot be too 
careful of their diet ; for in these diseases the appetite is not 
impaired, while the digestion is always materially weakened 
and the sufferer is apt to indulge in a hearty meal which, in 
an hour or two, will give a paroxysm of his complaint 
with all its attendant miseries. The foods that are most 
digestible have been already discussed in this chapter, and it 
would only be a repetition to go over them again, especially 
as some mention of then will be made in the next section, 
and in the chapter on dyspepsia. 

Bills of Fabi fob the Sick and Ikyalid. — In this 
section it is merely intended to assist the memory of the 
practitioner who frequently finds it difficult to call to mind 
the various light aliments suitable for a patient ; some re- 
petitions will necessarily occur, but the writer prefers to 
sacrifice elegance to utility. 

Early in the morning, a cup cf warm milk and water, or 
cocoa made as ordered in formula, or a small basin of gruel. 
Breakfast, a cup of tea with a small quantity of toast. 
Mid-day, a little wine with a light biscuit. Dinner, a break- 
fast-cupful of custard, flavoured according to taste. Tea, 
same as breakfast. Supper, same as dinner. 

The above would constituto what is termed "low diet." 
It may be varied by substituting & light farinaceous pudding, 
Jinada from any of the starchy foods for the custard, using 



FOR THE INYALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 29 

cocoa instead of tea, and sabstitating anj of the infused 
drinks for cocoa in the morning. 

The following is a more stimulating diet, and suitable for 
the third or critical stage of disease. Earlj morning, a cop 
of warm milk and a biscuit. Breakfast, a cup of tea, a slice 
of toast, and the yolk of a new laid egg. Twelve o'clock, 
some stimulant and a biscuit. Two p.m., a cup of strong 
beef tea with a slice of toast cut into small squares and 
soaked in it. Five p.m., a cup of weak tea, and a small 
portion of any kind of light bread. Supper, custard, or 
corn-flour pudding with half a glass of wine. When the 

m 

patient is rery weak, small quantities of beef tea may be 
taken in the intervals between the meals, and the stimulant 
must be regulated according to the orders of the medical 
attendant. The diet may be varied by substituting chicken, 
veal, and mutton broths for the beef tea, and varying the 
puddings as directed in the first bill of fare. Milk, tea, 
cocoa, or gruel, may be used to dilute the food according 
to the patient's taste. 

The next bill of fare is for the fourth, or recovering stage, 
or for the habitual invalid. Breakfast, between eight and 
nine a.m., tea one or two cups as desired, a moderate 
quantity of stale bread with fresh butter, and a new-laid 
egg. Luncheon, twelve o'clock, a cup of beef tea and a 
biscuit. Dinner, three p.m., mutton chop with one or two 
mealy potatoes, and a small quantity of custard pudding. 
Five p.m., same as breakfast, egg excepted. Supper, corn- 
flour with milk, and a little negus before going to sleep ; 
beef tea or a little wine may be taken in .the intervals as 
before, if necessary. This diet may be varied by substi- 
tuting whiting, haddock, or sole, for the mutton chop, and 
varying the liquids and puddings as directed in the two 
preceding bills of fare. 



80 A MANUAL OF DIET 



CHAPTER in. 



CONDIMENTS — ^thbir selatiok to food— usa aitd abusb of 

THE YABIOUS CONDIMENTS. 

Though condiments are not in themselves articles of diet, 
yet as they enter largely into the composition of many of 
the foods in daily use amongst ns, a work like the present 
would be incomplete without some notice of them. Condi- 
ments in themselves are incapable of nourishing, but they 
sometimes promote the digestion of other foods, and some 
of them have a soothing effect on the nervous system. It is 
curious to observe how a taste for condiments may be 
acquired until substances the most nauseous to the un- 
initiated, such as garlic and assafoetida, are partaken of with 
the greatest relish. 

Salt is the most important as well as the most essential 
condiment. A desire for salt seems an instinct in all warm* 
blooded animals. It promotes digestion, prevents worms, 
makes food more palatable, and has probably other effects 
on nutrition which physiologists have not yet explained, 
but which undoubtedly exist, and are highly necessary to 
the health of our bodies. Too much salt is, however, pre- 
judicial, and sailors who have long fed on salted meat with- 
out any admixture of fresh vegetables seldom fail to be- 
come affected vnth scurvy. This disease was once the terror 
of the seas, and it is one of the triumphs of medical science 



FOR TBS nCYALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 31 

to haye discoTered its cause and core. It is now well known 
that fresh lime juice is a complete preventative of scoryj. 
Yinegar, when pare, is in small quantities a useful condi- 
ment, and promotes the digestion of oily substances. The 
vinegar that is commonly sold is only a diluted impure 
luetic acid. 

The aromatic condiments comprise all the peppers, and 

some indigenous herbs. The strongest peppers, such as 

cayenne, are certainly injurious, and though they may be 

partaken of with impunity in warm climates, they ought not 

to be indulged in in England. The milder peppers are not 

«o injurious, and may be used sparingly according to taste ; 

but it is a mistake to suppose that large quantities of pepper 

will help a weak stomach, for it generally has the contrary 

•effect. Mustard, horse-radish, leek, onion, sage, mint, &c., 

are wholesome, and in moderate quantities harmless. They 

promote digestion, and prevent in a great measure the for- 

mation of gas in persons subject to flatulence. The curries 

and chutnee of India ought to be partaken of sparingly by 

Europeans. 

Catsup and the whole tribe of heating sauces, for which 
«very one haa private recipes, ought to be avoided by the 
dyspeptic. Pickles, though not so hurtful as the foregoing, 
are not recommended to the invalid or dyspeptic. Oily 
condiments are forbidden, being seldom digested by a weak 
fitomach. 



32 A MA2n7AL OF DIET 



CHAPTER IV. 



DBINES — ^PURB WATEB — SIMPLE IKFUSBD DBINKS — INFnSEI> 
DBINKB THAT ACT ON THB NERVOUS 8TSTEM — FERM£NTEI> 
LIQUORS, WINES, MALT LIQUORS — DISTILLED SPIRITS. 

Wateb is of great importance to the animal economy. As 
much as seventy per cent, of the human body is composed 
of it, and several pints daily are necessary for the per- 
formance of the different functions in connection with the 
animal frame. 

Three-fifths of the blood consists of water only, and no 
less than thirty lbs. of the same fluid ebb and flow between 
the blood and alimentary canal daily. . Digestion, absorption, 
and nutrition cannot be carried on without it, and the 
excretory organs, consisting of the kidneys, lungs, and skin, 
throw off five pounds and a half in the twenty-four hours. It 
is the beverage presented to us by the hand of nature, and 
unquestionably the most natural drink to man. Yolumes 
have been written extolling the virtues of pure water as a 
panacea for all diseases, and yet amongst the poor we still 
find the fever-stricken patient deprived of cold water as if it 
were so much poison. On the other hand our hydropathic 
friends deluge their patients with water externally and in- 
ternally. Here, as in a great many cases, a medium is to 
be observed, and while we would not reconunend our patients 
to drink cold water or Smother themselves in watery blankets 



FOB THE nrVALID AND DTSPSPTIO. 3^ 

in all diseases, yet a moderate allowance of pure water !»> 
admissible in sickness and in health. It is absolnte cruelty 
to withhold water from a feverish patient ; no one but those 
who have felt it can realize the craving he has for cold 
water, or the horror he has of its being mixed with anything. 
Drinking water ought always to be filtered before it is 
used. No water is so pure as to render this process unneces- 
sary ; for the purest water supplied to towns always contains 
a small quantity of organic impurityi which an ordinary 
filter will separate. 

It is now well known that water contaminated with sew- 
age spreads cholera and enteric fever, and when it is known^ 
that these diseases prevail, it is well to boil the water used 
for drinking. A great deal of windy nonsense has been^ 
written by the advocates of total abstinence in favour oi 
water drinking, and while the writer of this work would not 
endorse the doctrines cf these enthusiasts who spoil their 
cause by absurd exaggerations, he is free to confess that a 
person in good health, who is not worried by the turmoil that 
makes life a '^ feverish activity" in our large towns, has 
need oi nothing else but cold water for his drink. It is, 
however, but too true that the life that most professional and 
business men lead in our cities causes immense strain to the 
nervous system, and frequently a little stimulant is not 
only a luxury, but an absolute necessity ; but more of this 
anon. A moderate allowance of water with meals promotes 
digestion and refreshes the body, but large potations dilute 
the gastric juice, and so interfere with its solvent power. 
It is not generally known that when a patient has a burning 
thirst a mouthful of water quenches it as effectually as a 
large draught. It is well then to remember, when a sick per- 
son has a craving for water, to give only a small quantity 

B 



34 A MANUAL OF DIET 

at a time, as large draughts wonid distend the stomach and 
make him uncomfortable, while the thirst would be as intense 
4ks ever. 

After pure water come the simple infused drinks^ such as 
'Oatmeal gruel, toast water, barley water, linseed tea, currant 
water, etc. These are all of the same nature, and may be 
given indiscriminately, according to the patient's taste. 
Oatmeal gruel contains a certain quantity of nutriment, and 
is useful to patients who cannot take solid food ; it used to 
l)e the sole diet of the lying-in room, but now-a-days lying- 
in women are seldom restricted to gruel alone. It is given 
to promote the action of purgative medicines, and is cer- 
tainly well adapted to that purpose. Toast water, barley 
water, and linseed tea contain small quantities of nutriment, 
and are occasionally preferable to pure water to allay thirst. 
Currant water, lemon water, and tamarind water are cooling 
beverages, and useful in fevers. 

Soda Water, &c. — Waters charged with carbonic acid 
gas, and flavoured in various ways, have become favourite 
drinks of late years. Lemonade, ginger beer, and several 
others belong to this class. The most useful to the 
invalid or sick is the simple soda water, as the carbonic acid 
in it makes it soothing to the stomach, and the small 
quantity of carbonate of soda it contains does not interfere 
with digestion. When there is great irritability of the 
stomach, as in the commencement of fevers, bilious attacks, 
&c, soda water, with a small quantity of brandy, is an ex- 
cellent sedative, and is seldom rejected. Lemonade and 
ginger beer frequently contain a quantity of impure sugar, 
which is apt to upset an invalid's stomach, and ought there- 
fore to be avoided. 

Infused Dbinks that act on the Neeyous System. — 
Tea and coffee are the principal in this class, and from their 



FOR THE INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 35 

extensive ase all over the world they demand a little con- 
sideration. About five hundred millions of the population 
of the world drmk tea ; about one hundred millions make 
use of coffee ; fifty millions take cocoa, and the greater part 
of the rest drink the juice of various herbs similar to tea and 
coffee in their properties. The craving that man has for 
stimulants seems universal, and equally pervades savage and 
civilized nations. Johnston, in his excellent work *' The^ 
Chemistry of Life," says : — " The practice has prevailed 
equally in arctic and tropical regions. In Central America, 
the Indian of native blood and the Creole of mixed European 
race indulge alike in theur ancient chocolate. In Southern 
America the tea of Paraguay is an almost universal beverage. 
The native North American tribes have their Apallachian 
tea, their Oswega tea, their Labrador tea, and many others. 
From Florida to Georgia in the United States, and over all 
the West Indian Islands, the naturalized Europeans drink 
their favourite coffee ; while over the Northern States of the 
Union and in the British provinces, the tea of China is in 
daily and constant nse. All Europe, too, has chosen its 
prevailing beverage. Spain and Italy delight in chocolate ; 
France, Germany, Sweden, and Turkey in coffee ; Russia, 
Holland, and England in tea ; whilst poor Ireland makes its 
warm drink of the husks of the cocoa — the refuse of the 
chocolate mills of Italy and Spain. 

^' All Asia feels the same want, and in different ways has 
long gratified it. Coffee, indigenous in Arabia or the 
adjoining countries, has followed the banner of the Prophet 
wherever in Asia or Africa his faith has triumphed. Tea, 
a native of China, has spread spontaneously over the hill 
country of the Himalayas, the table lands of Tartary and 
Thibet, and the plains of Siberia ; has climbed the Altais, 

B— 2 



26 A MANUAL OF DIET 

OTerspread all Russia, and is equally despotic in Moscow 
as in St. Petersburg. In Sumatra, the coffee leaf yields 
the favourite tea of the dark skinned population; while 
Central Africa boasts of the Abyssinian chaat as the indi- 
genous warm drink of its Ethiopian people. Everywhere, 
in fact, unintoxicating, and non-narcotic beverages are in 
general use among tribes of every colour beneath every sun, 
and in every condition of life. The custom must then meet 
some universal want of our nature, some physiological 
function that science has not yet explained; and con- 
sidering that these beverages contain essentially the same 
chemical compounds, it is remarkable that they should 
have been selected from the whole range of the vegetable 
kingdom." 

Tea is more extensively used in this country than coffee, 
and though it is not such a strong stimulant as the latter, 
it has a more soothing effect on the nervous system, 
and is generally to be preferred by the invalid. Though 
chemists assert that the active principles of tea and coffee 
are alike, tea drmkers assert that the action of the latter 
is very different from that of the former, and we know that 
we seldom find any confirmed coffee drinker who will not 
taste tea, but of tea drinkers who will not taste coffee we 
hiave abundance. Since the reduction in the duties on tea, 
it has become a universal beverage in these islands at the 
tables of the rich and poor, and though its daily use is not 
always attended with benefit, it is certain that it has been 
one of our great civilising agents ; and much as we wonder 
at the craving for alcoholic liquors prevailing amongst all 
classes of our population, it is certain that drunkenness 
would be still more prevalent were it not for tea, which, it 
may be truly said, cheers but does not inebriate. Tea 



FOR THE INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC 37 

ought not to be taken too strong, nor with a full meal ; 
in the former case it causes over-stimulation, which soon 
relapses into a depression, and in the latter it retards 
digeption. The best time to take tea is about three hours 
After dinner ; taken at this time it refreshes the body, now 
jaded by the labours of the day, and washes away any 
remains of undigested food that may be in the stomach. 
Tea ought not to be taken more than once a day by people 
in health, but the invalid may indulge in it twice. Coffee is 
always preferable for the mornmg meal if the health is good, 
but many invalids complain of indigestion after coffee in the 
morning. Tea, as taken by the poor, causes indigestion and 
other troublesome ailments. Poor needlewomen and others 
of the same class take tea several times a day with but little 
nourishment, and the consequence is a most intractable 
dyspepsia, with which every physician who attends the out- 
door patients of our large hospitals is but too famUiar. 
Oreen tea is too stimulating for the invalid, and is not to 
be desired by the healthy, and unless by medical advice 
ought never to be taken. Coffee is more difficult to prepare 
than tea, and this is probably one of the reasons why it has 
never become a popular beverage among the lower classes. 
The art of making coffee seems to be better understood on 
the continent than in England. Directions for preparing 
this beverage will be found in the Appendix. 

The custom of handing tea and coffee round after dinner, 
though sanctioned by time has not the sanction of science, 
for we know that both these beverages arrest digestion to 
a certain extent. Experience, however, proves that a cup of 
either is rather grateful after a heavy dinner ; but this is 
easily explained when we call to mind that the wines we 
drink in England are highly alcoholic, and that their effects 



88 A MANUAL OF DIET 

on the brain and nervous system are considerable. We 
therefore take coffee or tea to clear our heads, having little 
regard to our stomach, until perhaps the next morning's 
headache reminds us of our sins against it. 

The practice of giving cold tea to sick children is highly 
objectionable, and ought to be strictly forbidden. 

Cocoa from its oily nature is not adapted to the sick, but 
some have a relish for it and can enjoy it. It can hardly be 
said to act on the nervous system, but to some it is a slight 
stimulant. It contains a considerable quantity of nutri- 
ment, and is an excellent beverage for those whose diges- 
tion is not impaired. Chocolate is much the same as cocoa.* 

Fermented Liquors. — It would be foreign to the pur- 
pose of this work to enter on the much vexed question of 
the use and abuse of alcoholic liquors. All we have to do 
with them here is to consider them medicinally, and how far 
we are justified in prescribing them for the use of the sick. 
Wine, being the most ancient as well as the most universally 
used of the alcoholic beverages, comes first on the list. A 
great variety of liquors come under the term wine, but 
strictly speaking it refers to the fermented juice of the 



* Cocoa is probably more adulterated than any other article in this clasi . 
Dr. Normandy says, "Unfortunately, however, many of the preparations of the 
cocoa nut sold under the names of chocolate, of cocoa flakes, and of chocolate 
powder, consist of a most disgusting mixture of bad or musty cocoa nuts, with 
their shells, coarse sugar of the very lowest quality, ground with potato starch, 
old sea biscuits, coarse branny flour, animal fat (generally tiUow, or even 
greaves). I have known cocoa powder made of potato starch, moistened with 
a decoction of cocoa nut shells, and sweetened with treacle; and chocolate made 
of the same materials, with the additions of tallow and ochre. I have also met 
with chocolate in which biick-dust or red ochre had been introduced to the ex. 
tent of 12 per cent. ; another sample contained 22 -per cent, of peroxide of iron, 
the rest being starch, cocoa nuts with their shells, and tallow. Messrs. Jnlet 
Gamier and Harel assert that cinnabar and red lead have been found in certain 
Bamplet of choeolatej and that serious accidents had been caused by them." 



FOR THE DTVALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 39 

grape only, and will be so applied here. Wines yarj much 
in their composition and physiological effects on the system, 
According to the quantity of alcohol and other ingredients 
contained in them. The old classification of wines into dry 
and sweet is a very convenient one, as it enables us to dis- 
tinguish between those that contain unconverted sugar and 
those that do not. The former are not suited to the invalid's 
fitomach and ought never to be given to a person with weak 
digestion. A wine containing a great deal of alcohol is 
likewise unsuited to the invalid. 

Until the recent reduction of duties on the light wines we 
had iittle else in this country but the wines of Spain and 
Portugal, both of which contain large quantities of alcohol 
and unconverted sugar.* Indeed, in many instances, what 
was called wine was merely a liqueur whose connection with 

* " Our cellars and onr stomachs were handed over to Portugal [and Spain] 
tt century and-a-half ago, and we have heen bound to the Peninsular vinsyards 
ever since, while Europe was overflowing with wines of infinite variety and 
merit. France has been described as one huge vineyard— the Rhine and the 
Moselle are admirable ; and everybody has heard that the wines of Hungary 
axe so good as to be almost priceless. Our dealings with wine countries have 
hitherto very much resembled those of the Japanese with Europe, who received 
two ships once-a-year from a particular port, and learnt just as much about 
European produce as the Dutch chose to teach thorn. We gave tJu same monO' 
poly to Oporto and Cadiz, and stocked our cellars exclusively from those cities. The 
regular wines were port and sherry, religiously produced in couples— so much 
BO, that the very decanters were manufactured and sold by 'the pair.' The 
price, too, was most extravagant, not as regarded the actual worth, but as 
bearing on the general use of wine. There were no qualities fitted for common 
consumption. Wine, in fact, was noi a beverage but a liqueur. It was both too 
Btrong and too dear. Nobody could take it at meal-times in the ordinary way 
of drink, and few could affbrd to consume it by pints or half pints. It was pre. 
served carefuUy in a decanter, and brought out of the cupboard on holidays 
and measured out into glasses carefuUy siaed. An English wine-glass teUs its 
own tale, like the salt-cellars of an old Indian dinner-service. You see by the 
smallness of the article how precious the contents were thought, and even now 
the public can hardly be persuaded that 'wine' can ever be cheap."— !ZVm«» 
Newspaper, 



40 A MANUAL OF DIET 

a vineyard was certainly very remote, but whose connection, 
with the chemists laboratory was unmistakable. At the present 
time the wine sold in public-houses, in some neighbour- 
hoods, is only a cheap imitation, and is not only worthless 
but injurious. It is nothing short of absolute cruelty to 
sell such trash to the sick poor, who are the only customers 
for this class of so-called wine. The poor seldom or never 
drink wine when they are well, but when they are ijl they 
always resort to port wine, as possessing a kind of imaginary 
virtue, for the cure of all diseases. 

The Trine consamed by the sick ia our pubUc hospitals is 
generally far from what it ought to be. Instead of being a 
light natural wine it is either port or sherry, generally the 
former, fortified with raw spirits. This is a question worthy 
of the attention of our medical authorities, and will one day, 
I hope, receive the attention it deserves. When we wish to 
order a patient a strong stimulant, why not order brandy or 
whiskey, instead of a spirituous port or sherry, wherein the 
quantity of alcohol is variable and uncertain? On the 
other hand, when we wish to take advantage of the tonic 
and alterative properties of pure natural wine, we should be 
sure that our patient gets it, and not an artificial mixture^ 
The reduction of duty on the lighter wines introduced into 
this country has been a great boon to all classes, but to 
none so much as to the invalid who is not blessed with a 
digestion that will enable him to thrive on the ale or porter 
of Great Britain. We can now obtain a pure natural wine 
at such a price as to enable people with moderate means to 
make it a dally beverage, which is no small boon to many a 
dyspeptic. 

Wines used as daily beverages should not contain more 
than 1 per cent, of alcohol. An actively-employed adult. 



FOB THE INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 41 

according to an eminent authority, can take a bottle a day of 
«uch a wine and be the better for it; but an invalid, generally 
speaking, ought not to take more than half this quantity; and 
if the wine contains 20 per cent, of alcohol, three or four 
glasses a day is enough in most cases. The wines most 
«uitable for the invalid and dyspeptic are claret, hock, 
Jburgundy, and moselle. For a cheap wine, good sound 
Bordeaux claret is the best, but if its astringency disagrees, 
a white Rhine wine is to be preferred. The price of the 
latter, however, puts it out of the reach of many people. 

Hungarian wines, lately introduced into this country, have 
rapidly become favourites with many medical men, who pre- 
scribe them largely to their patients. They contain more 
alcohol than the light wmes of France and Germany, and 
are generally esteemed pure and wholesome. They contain 
but a small quantity of sugar. 

Champagne and other varieties of sparkling wine contain 
too much sugar, but small quantities are grateful drinks in 
43ome cases of sickness. 

Dyspeptics ought to be particularly careful not to take 
any sweet cake with wine, as they form a most indigestible 
compound. 

Beeb. — This is the staple drink of Englishmen, and, 
unlike most of our narcotic beverages, is nutritious as well 
as stimulating. Though the manufacture of beer is brought 
to greater perfection in England than in any other country, 
it is known all over the world, especially in the colder 
countries where the vine does not grow. The Chinese make 
it from rice, the Americans from maize and various other 
grains. 

Beer in its various modifications, as ale, sweet and bitter, 
porter, stout, etc., is an excellent drink for the healthy who 



42 A MANUAL OF DIET 

pass a good part of their time in the open air ; but it is only 
occasionally allowable to the invalid, and never to the sick. 
The quantity of extractiye matter which it contains, though 
highly nntritions, is not easily digested, and not nnfreqnently 
distresses the stomach of the weak who ventare to indulge 
in a glass or two. What is called cooper, a mixture of 
stout and porter, is generally the most digestible for the 
invlklid, and is not liable to cause the sick headache which 
the heavy sweet ales frequently cause in those unaccustomed 
to their use. Bitter ale is an excellent invention, but it is 
not always so innocent as it is supposed to be. It may have 
tonic properties for some constitutions, but to the majority 
of invalids stout or cooper is more bearable, and less liable 
to upset digestion. Old ale contains a large amount of 
alcohol as well as extractive matter, and should neVer be 
taken by the invalid. 

There can be no doubt that the large quantity of beer 
consumed by the indoor operatives of London is in a ^reat 
many instances the agent that sends them to our out-door 
hospital departments. 

It is generally admitted that the ailment known as rheu- 
matic gout— a disease very common to the poor of the 
metropolis — is brought on by beer qonsumed in large 
quantities. Bronchitis, kidney affections, degeneration Of the 
blood-vessels, and many other diseases, if not caused, are 
greatly aggravated by this habit. 

When beer is taken it ought always to be with meals, 
and seldom in the intervals between. It should never be 
relied upon as a food of itself, for though possessed Of 
nutritive properties it does not impart strength to the 
muscles, as erroneously supposed by many, but goes to 
accumulate fat, of which, in a great many instances, the 



FOB TELE INYALID AND DTSPEPTIC. 43 

body has no need. Beer causes a kind of dyspepsia in 
brain workers, which is liable to be attributed to every 
<cause but the right one. I have known men suffer in this 
way for years, having no idea of the source of their ailment. 
Distilled SpiRixs.^-The art of distilling ardent spirits 
has been a cursed invention to humanity. The moral and 
physical evils arising from their use are numerous and terrible, 
and will one day be the subject of investigation and legis- 
lation. Their habitual use is baneful to the healthy as well 
AS to the invalid, and ought to be avoided by all classes. 
In disease they are occasionally useful in small quantities, 
but as their use is always to be directed by medical advice, 
they need not be considered here. 



44 A MANUAL OF DIET 



CHAPTER V. 



DYSPEPSIA — DEFINITION OF THE TERM — lYMFTOMS OF DTSPEPSIA 
— CAUSES OF DTBPEPSIA — TREATMENT OF DTSPBPSIA. 

Dtspepsia, or indigestioD, signifies a derangement of one 
or more of the processes by which food is rendered fit for 
absorption into the blood. From what has been said in the 
first chapter of this work the reader will readily understand 
that, althoagh this disease is generally referred to the stomach,, 
it has not always its seat there, bat may be owing to derange- 
ment of some of the other organs which are accessory to 
digestion, or it may be occasioned by a disease or irritation 
in a distant part of the body. Whatever may be its seat ii 
is always troublesome and occasionally painful, not merely 
affecting the body, but the mind, making life miserable, aird 
not unfrequently leading to most incurable and deadly 
diseases. Dyspepsia is peculiarly a disease of advanced 
ciyilization, and is without doubt more common with us 
than amongst our forefathers ; nor is there much hope of it 
decreasing, at all events in the class in which we now find it 
so prevalent — viz., the middle class in our large towns. Money 
getting is the practical religion of the day, and to get ricb^ 
no matter at what cost to body and mind, but still to get 
rich is the life aim of not a few. Dyspepsia is certainly one 
of the least evils that men bring upon themselves by such 
unnatural exertions in the acquisition of wealth, but it is one 
that is almost universal among the class referred to, so much 
80^ that during a late commercial disturbance a form of it was 



FOR TDE INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 45 

known amongst London medical men as the " City disease." 
The notions that are prevalent, even amongst the educated 
classes, concerning this complaint are extremely vague and 
erroneous, and it is not a little amusing to hear patients 
relate their symptoms qualified with their notions as to the 
origin and cause of their complaint. The term " bilious " 
is used to denote various forms of dyspepsia, and the sufferer 
is thus led to take what are called antibilious pills, with which 
every chemist's shop abounds, thinking that by these means 
he will clear away the bile he imagines is his chief enemy. 
The purge will certainly relieve the symptoms for the time 
being ; but the disease, so far from being cured, is only 
aggravated, and the antibilious do 8 3 is required in gradually 
increasing frequency until at last the patient gets alarmed 
and consults his medical adviser. 

The terms heartburn, waterbrash, flatulence, acidity, pain 
at the chest, spasms, etc., are commonly used by people in 
describing their ailments, but they are really only as many 
forms of dyspepsia, and are frequently the result of causes 
that are similar, but acting in different ways on different 
constitutions. 

SrMPTOMS OF Dyspepsia.— The symptoms of indigestion 
are Protean in their character; seldom do we find two patients 
suffering alike ; but the following may be taken as the lead- 
ing symptoms of the disorder, though it must not be under- 
stood that they are peculiar to dyspepsia, or that they are 
all present in every or in any case of the disease.* Many of 



* There is nothing that misleads a lay reader more than symptoms. He 
knows, or has been taught, that certain symptoms belong to a certain disease, 
and if he finds one or two of them in himself or others, he immediately jumps 
to the conclusion that a certain disease is present, ignoring entirely other 
symptoms which may be present, that would lead one more eaq>erienced to a 
difibrent conolnsion. 



46 ▲ MANUAL OF DIET 

them are present in other diseases of a mach more serious 
nature than dyspepsia, and^ when any of them occur in a 
severe or very protracted form, medical advice should be 
sought and all doubt removed. 

The most common signs of dyspepsia in its mildest form 
are an uneasy sensation in the region of the stomach after 
meals, and especially after dinner ; a feeling of lassitude and 
depression, and a disinclination for bodily or mental exertion. 
The uneasiness may sometimes become pain more or less 
severe, and may be occasionally accompanied by vomiting 
and retching. The lassitude and disinclination to exertion 
are very characteristic of dyspepsia and are frequently 
present when every other symptom is absent. A sense of 
fullness is a frequent symptom, and is generally caused by 
a collection of gas in the stomach. More or less flatulence 
is a constant symptom of indigestion, and is the result of 
gases disengaged when the process of digestion is abnormal. 

Vomiting and nausea with headache are the symptoms of 
that dyspepsia commonly called bilious, and generally sup* 
posed to proceed from some derangememt of the liver ; but 
which is really a congestion or sub- acute inflammation of 
the stomach and upper part of the small intestines, and may 
be present when the liver is in perfect health. 

The appetite during dyspepsia is variable, occasionally it 
is not changed, but oftener it is entirely absent, and rarely 
it is voracious. The latter symptom often leads to mistakes, 
as it is a popular notion that if a patient has a good or fair 
appetite he cannot be suffering from indigestion. Giddiness 
and dimness of vision are common symptoms. The former, 
occasionally, assumes a very severe form, so much so, that 
a patient cannot walk a few paces without the greatest 
dread of falling. Troublesome dreams and nightmare are 



FOR THE INVALID XSD DYSPEPTIC. 47 

always indicatiTe of a disordered stomach. Dyspeptics 
have geDerally a harsh dry skin, and are occasionally troubled 
with skin diseases. 

The most important sytnptoms connected with dyspepsia 
are the mental, and they are the more important becansc 
sufferers are seldom aware of the cause of their mental de- 
pression and uneasiness. Many a life is rendered unhappy 
and miserable from this source alone ; the victim enduring 
from day to "day the most abject misery, finding no pleasure 
in existence, and wishing rather to quit the scene of his 
troubles than continue to endure a life that is becoming un- 
bearable. I have no hesitation in saying, that many of the 
painful cases of suicide we hear of are the result of aggra- 
vated dyspepsia acting on a weak brain, in persons already 
predisposed to insanity. 

That distressing complaint known as hypochondriasis 
which is but a mild form of insanity, is frequently the result 
of some form of dyspepsia. The mental symptoms, however, 
happily in the great majority of patients take a milder form, 
appearing generally in irritability of temper, a morbid 
sensativeness of the mind, which causes the indiyidual to 
take the narrowest and most suspicions view of human 
nature, gloomy forebodings of what is to happen to him- 
self, incapability of making the least mental exertion, fear 
of being alone. It must be remembered that many dys- 
peptics are free from all mental symptoms whatever, but 
such symptoms are oftener present, in some degree, than 
absent. The other symptoms of dyspepsia are furred 
tongae, relaxed throat, and a feeling of weariness and 
malaise which is difficult to describe. What are called 
<' fidgets " are well known as a symptom of dyspepsia, and 



48 A HAKUAL OF DIET 

consist, as most people know, of a disagreeable desire to 
jerk with a sort of conynlsiye motion the lower limbs ; the 
other mnpcles of the body seeming to the patient to contract 
in an involantary sort of way, which makes him walk abont 
to get quit of a very disagreeable feeling. Most dyspeptics 
have a deposit in the urine, either red or white, generally 
the former. 

What is called technically pyrosis, and popularly " water- 
brash,'* is one form of dyspepsia, and consists of pain 
at the pit of the stomach, variously described by different 
patients. After the pain has continued for some time, 
there is a sense of nausea, a mouthful of clear fluid, which is 
cold and tasteless, is vomited, and relief is immediately 
t)btamed. The complaint is very common in Scotland, and Is 
generally caused by oatmeal diet. The most certain cause is 
barley-meal. Heartburn is another affection different from 
the last, inasmuch as the rejected fluid is distinctly acid, and 
has a burning hot taste, and then a pain is felt at the pit of 
the stomach, and a sense of burning all along the gullet. 
The connection between the stomach and the lungs is a most 
intimate one, and patients who suffer irom chronic disease 
of the latter are very apt to have it aggravated through the 
stomach. Those who suffer from chronic bronchitis or asthma 
often wake between two and four in the morning with a 
cough and great diflSculty of breathing, which pass off in 
a few hours with a profuse secretion of mucus from the 
bronchial tubes. The patient, who was obliged to sit up in 
bed perhaps, can then lie down and enjoy a few hours calm 
sleep, and rises comparatively well, feeling his breathing 
quite easy. These paroxysms are generally brought on by 
some error in diet, which affects the lungs through the 



FOB THE INVALID AND DJSPEPTld. 49 

*" stomach, and is a sonrce of considerable suffering to those 
who are subject to it.* 

These are generally the symptoms associated with the 
conmion and simpler forms of dyspepsia. The severer 
forms, where there is organic lesion of the stomach, need 
. not be considered here, nor would it be in accordance with 

my purpose to enter into that form of the disorder which 
is caused by the irritation of some distant organ. They, 
strictly speaking, belong to the technical part of 
medical science, and a description of them would only 
tend to conf ase the non-professional reader. 
. * The Causes of Dyspepsia are as numerous as its 

^ symptoms, and proceed from widely different sources, but the 

piimary fault is nearly always some inherent weakness in the 
patient — some constitutional malady that weakens the mus- 
cular power of the stomach and vitiates the gastric ^uice^' 
a weakness of constitution brought on by breathing an 
.^ impure atmosphere and close occupation — the mind over- 
worked at the expense of the body — all these are fertile 
fiources of indigestion, but principaUy the first. A consti- 
tqlional taint of some kind, either inherited or acquired, is 
St the jroot of more cases of dyspepsia than any other cause, 
and when we know that any such taint lurks in our body, we 
should be the more careful to keep it latent, for the least 
excess may bring it into activity and cause much misery. 
The constitutional diseases that are known to give rise to 
dyspepsia are phthisis, gout, chronic bronchitis, syphilis, 
and rheumatism. These diseases may not be actually 



* It mast not be supposed from the above, that the stomach is always to 
blame for the paroxysms of difBcult breathing that asthmatics frequently have 
«tt night, for they often arise from entirely different causes. 



50 A MANUAL OF DIET 

present so as to be apparent, bnt the least taint of them 
Inrking in the blood is sufficient to give rise to indigestion. 

Among the immediate existing causes of dyspepsia may 
be enumerated improper food, that is to say, food whple^ 
some in itself and suitable for the healthy, but too strong 
for the weak stomach of the dyspeptic, and which instead 
of nourishing him, aggravates his complaint. Bad cookery 
is not an unfrequent cause of iodigestion. Baked meat for 
instance, is much more difficult to digest than roasted meat, 
and when bread, paste, puddings, etc., are not properly 
prepared, they are sure to disagree with a dyspeptic patient. 
Want of teeth, and eating too hurriedly, generally make 
digestion prolonged and painful. In the one case the food 
is not properly divided, and the stomach is called upon to do 
extra labour in reducing it to chyme, and in the other the 
food has not had time to be properly mixed with saliva, whfch^ 
as already explained, is very essential to digestion. Spirit 
drinking is a most fertile source of dyspepsia, and though 
among the least of the evils of such a baneful habit, is 
prolific of much misery. The spirit drinker's appetite is nearly 
always impaired. The mucous membrane of his stomach 
being kept in a state of sub-acute inflanmiation, is never fit 
for its duties ; the consequence is that his food is either re- 
jected, or it passes in a semi-digested state into the bowels 
where it causes irritation and diarrhoea. Every medical 
practitioner is well acquainted with the drunkard's dry 
furred tongue, his congested eye, gastric pain, and the well 
known train of symptoms indicating liver disorder. Beer 
or wine drinking in excess are likewise well known causes, 
and even moderate quantities of these will in some con- 
stitutions produce very severe dyspepsia. 

The excessive use of tobacco or opium will frequenilj 



FOB TPB IN VALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 51 

cause dyspepsia, and sorwill tea a&d coffee la the same way, 
but the moderate use of either at proper times is buhoaless. 
Men following certain trades, as shoemaking, are apt to suffer 
mnch from indigestion. This is owing to the stomach 
being pressed npon from without^ which hinders its action 
and otherwise interferes with it in the performance! of rits 
duty. Tight lacing was once a common cause of indigestion 
from compression of the stomach in the same way, but our 
more enlightened ladies ol the present day have, I am glad 
to say, in a great measures abandoned this fashion.* Abuse 
of purgative medicines not uiifrequently induces dyspepsia, 
especially the patent medicines, which sufferers are led to 
believe will cure all diseases, but which often give rise to 
others perhaps worse than the first. Lastly, there are what 
are called idiosyncrasies, ;ihati> some people have with refer- 
ence to certain articles of diet^^and which have given rise to 
the saying that ''what 19 on%|»an's food is anotiier's poison." 
We all know some whotjiave <a horror of certain kinds of 
diet which are not o&lyiihannless, but highly digestive and 
nutritious to others, and yet these people can eat and digest 
some foods that a person with a moderately good digestion 
could not partake of with impunity. 

Chmate has frequently a i^ddeal to do with bad diges- 
tion. To some peoplep< aKi.wasm relaxing climate is an 
abundant source of indigestipBv'ift&d this cause is often felt 
by the English absoadi and larg^i quantities of hot spices are 
taken to obviate it, but these o^m aggravate the evil which 
they were intended to cure. 1/ 



-M*- 



' * Since the publication ofthe IKrift'^ition of this work, I regret to eee the 
practice of tight lacing to 8on^ extent xfviy^t in epite.of all that has heen said 
and written in its condemnation. Fashions are, however, like systems of 
TsUgion, the more they are bpposed and persecuted, the bettei^ they thriye. 



52 ' A MAl^UAL OF DIET 

Eating too mach is such a well known cause of indigestion 
that it may seem ridicoloos to mention it, but every medical 
practitioner knows that people may suffer from this cause 
for an indefinite period and not find it out. It never strikes 
them they are giving their stomachs too much to do, though 
it groans daily under its load, and gives them a great deal 
of uneasiness. Literary men and 'all who have sedentary 
employment are apt to err in this way. They know that to 
get an appetite they must take exercise, and they start off 
for a long walk, or perhaps take a turn at the gymnasium 
before dinner. They get a kind of appetite, but the body 
is exhausted, and when a heavy meal is taken directly after, 
the stomach, partaking of the fatigue of the body, is unable 
to digest it, and consequently the food may lie for some 
hours indigested, causing much misery, bodily and mental. 

Too great or too short intervals between meals ought to 
be avoided, as both extremes are injurious. No rule can be 
laid down for the guidance of patients in this respect, for in 
some digestion is quick while in others it is extremely slow. 
A little attention to his own feelings is, however, enough to 
set a patient right on this point. 

Treatment op Dyspepsia. — The first action in the 
treatment of dyspepsia is to find out the cause of the ail- 
ment. No doctoring of the stomach will avail much if the 
cause of the disorder is still in operation. See whether any 
of the causes mentioned in the preceding pages are in opera- 
tion, and if so, have them removed as far as possible before 
any remedies are used. When some constitutional disease 
is at the root of indigestion, the treatment ought to be 
directed for its removal rather than trying to cure the 
dyspepsia, which may be only one of its symtoms ; but aa 
sncb an attempt would be attended with danger in the hands 



FOB THB INVALID AND DTSP£FnO. 5^ 

of patients themselves, I will not enter npon it here. It may 
be mentioned in passing, however, that cod liver oil in small 
doses is perfectly safe and an excellent remedy for indigestion 
associated with scrofula, consumption, chronic bronchitis, and 
chronic asthma. When there is a tendency to indigestion,, 
either hereditary or acquired, great care should be taken in 
regulating the diet, by taking meals at the proper time and 
taking food only that can be easily and quickly digested. 
The following directions in reference to meals and quality 
of diet may be useful to some. Breakfast, when possible, 
should be taken late ; about ten is the best hour, but a little^ 
refreshment, such as a cup of warm milk and a small biscuit^ 
should be taken on getting up. The dyspeptic who can take* 
his breakfast at ten o'clock ought to make it the principal 
meal of the day ; for at this time and till noon the body is ht 
full vigour, and the stomach is able to digest thoroughly a 
larger quantity of food than during any other portion of the 
twenty-four hours. Coffee, made as directed in appendix, is the* 
best fluid, but if it does not agree, tea or cocoa may be substi- 
tuted. Bread toasted and allowed to cool, and then buttered^ 
may be taken in moderate quantities, and one or two new- 
laid eggs lightly boiled. For the eggs, fish, a small mutton- 
chop, some cold mutton, or lamb may be substituted accord* 
ing to taste. Luncheon should be taken about one, and' 
should only be a light refreshment, such as a glass of milk with 
a biscuit, or claret if prefered to the milk. Dinner should 
be taken between four and five, and should be plain, con- 
sisting of two or three courses at the most. Beef, mutton, 
fowl, fish, or game may be taken sparingly according to 
taste, but only one or two varieties ; for when there are 
various dishes on the table, the appetite is tempted and more 
is taken than is really necessary. A light pudding or stewed 



Si: A MANUAI. OF DIET 

fruit may be taken afterwards, but no pastry. Claret is the 
best drink for the dyspeptic, but if that liquor is not relished, 
a glass of water is sufficient, A tablespoonful of brandy 
xidded to the water is useful in some cases. Drmking 
alcoholic wines, such as port or sherry, after dinner arrests 
digestion and causes acidity and flatulence. 

Tea should be taken about three or four hours after 
dinner, and should on no account be made a meal of ; one 
slice of bread or a biscuit is all that should be taken with it* 
Some dyspeptics are better without any supper, but many 
people sleep better with a little food in the stomach. A 
<;orn flour or arrowroot pudding, a light boiled egg, curds 
tiTid whey, or a slice of chicken may be taken at this meal. 
The dyspeptic ought to be careful how he indulges at this 
meal, for at no meal in the day is he so apt to err. Many 
T^ith weak digestion prefer supper to any other meal, and 
:are liable to take too much, incurring uneasy nights with 
dreams and nightmare ; besides, the appetite is spoiled for 
the morning meal, which, as already observed, ought to be 
the heartiest of the day. No rule can be given for the 
quantity of liquid taken with dinner and supper, but too little 
is always better than too much. Malt liquor ought to be 
avoided, yet some cases may be benefited by a glass of Dublin 
£tout before retudng to rest, but at no other time of* 
the day. 

The following directions respecting meals are intended for 
a person in health, and are extracted from Dr. C. J. 
B. William's excellent work entitled *'The Principles of 
Medicine": — 

" Breakfast at from eight to nine a.m., of bread or dry 
toast, with a moderate quantity of butter ; one or two new- 
Lud eggs, boiled three minutes and a half, or a little cold 



FOR THE INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 65 

chicken or game, or even a mutton chop may be added for 
those who use much bodily exertion. Beverage — one break- 
fast cupful of cafe au lait — that is, clear strong infusion of 
coffee, with scalded milk, in the proportion of one-third of 
the former to two-thirds of the latter. Cocoa, deprived of 
its oil, or thin chocolate, with milk, may be substituted for 
the coffee, if preferred, 

^^ Luncheon at from one to two p.m.^ may consist of a smidl 
basin of shin-of-beef soup, with vermicelli, rice, or toasted 
bread in it. If meat have been taken at breakfast, a biscuit 
or piece of bread and butter, or small sandwich may suffice 
for luncheon; wine and malt liquors are generally better 
avoided at this time. 

" Dinner from five to seven, p.nu (The latter hour is not 
recommended, but is often unavoidable). Wholesome fresb 
meat and vegetables, Well but plainly cooked, served hot^ 
6lirefully proportioned, and properly masticated: thesd- 
should be varied from day to day with occasional addition^ 
of fish, and moderate quantities of farinaceous and fruit 
puddings. Highly seasoned dishes, pickles, salt and dried 
meats, rich and heavy pastry, and cheese, should be ex- 
cluded from tables aiming at wholesomeness. Beverages — 
sound white wine (sherry or good marsala, from one t<> 
three glasses), which it is advisable to mix with water ; or 
good sauterne or moselle unmixed. Those who use much 
exercise may safely substitute malt liquor, bitter ale being th& 
lightest, and porter or stout the more sustaining. Half a 
pint is generally as much as is well for the health. Many 
thrive, especially in the country, without any fermented 
liquor.. If simple water be taken, it should be in modera- 
tion, otherwise it may interrupt digestion. Some find warm 
water, or milk and water, a pleasant beverage. The habit of 



£6 A MANUAL OF DIET 

taking wine after dinner is one of laxory, not of health ; and 
^U that can be said of it in a hygienic sense is, the less the 
^setter. The practice of making a slight dessert of fruit is 
iiot equally hurtful, provided its quantity or quality be not 
«uch as to excite indigestion. 

''Tea — the English custom of taking tea, or a simple 
warm liquid meal three or four hours after dinner is a very 
salutary one, and probably disagrees only with those who 
dine too late or overload their stomach at dinner. The 
warm liquid assists the separation and absorption of the chyle 
from the chyme, which is effected at this period. But it is 
obvious that the introduction of solid food into the stomach 
with it must interfere with this process ; therefore, little or 
nothing should be eaten — certainly not quantities of 
buttered toast and rich cake. Two or three moderate cups 
of black tea with a little milk and sugar, form a salutary 
iind agreeable wash for the stomach, and serve to remove all 
acrid materials left undissolved by digestion, and which if 
not carried away might disturb that rest for which the 
appropriate hour now approaches. It may be added that 
tea is nutritious in a degree as well as a diluent. Liebig 
has shown that its peculiar constituent, theine, is an azotized 
principle of a highly plastic nature, and chemically almost 
identical with the analogous principle of coffee {caffeine). 
The observations of Dr. Bocker further show that both tea 
4ind coffee retard the destruction and waste of the tissues of 
the body, so that by their aid a person can subsist on 
Jess food without losing weight than one who drinks water 
<only. This accounts for the well known invigorating and 
refreshing influence of tea and coffee. 

<< The practice of dining early, at from one to three p .m., which 
ifirpnrsued by the majority of persons in the middle and lower 



FOB THE INVALID AND DTSPBPTIG. 57 

ranks of society, would deserve^more general adoption on 
the score of health, were it not generally impossible then ta 
devote the time to it, and to rest after it, that the principal 
meal requires. A harried early dinner, if plentiful enougb 
to satisfy the appetite, is pretty sure to cause indigestion^ 
and disqualifies for exertion afterwards. If, on the other 
hand, it be purposely made light to avoid this, it may not 
suffice for the wants of the system, and so an evening meat 
or supper becomes necessary. The chief objection ta 
suppers is, that they are indulged in either so freely or at so 
late an hour that primary digestion is not accomplished by 
bed-time. Hence flatus and other symptoms of indigestion 
occur on lying down, and prevent or disturb sleep, and the 
individual rises on the following morning with a pasty mouth 
and unrefreshed. To avoid these consequences, the supper 
should be taken at least two hours before going to bed, 
and should consist of such light materials as are easy of 
digestion — not too bulky, and not disposed to generate 
flatus. Those who use much exercise may take with 
advantage a little light meat, chicken, game, white fish, or 
eggs, with a small quantity of wine and water, or sound 
beer (if this do not disagree). Those who require less 
sustaining food— as, for instance, sedentary, plethoric, or 
inflammatory individuals — will find a more suitable supper 
in a light farinaceous pudding, bread and milk, or oatmeal 
porridge. The last is especially useful in persons of costive 
habit. A few currants, raisins, or a little apple added to 
farinaceous puddings serve to counteract their constipating 
tendency. 

^' Eegularity in the hour of the meals is of great importance 
to the preservation of health. The stomach acquires the 
habit of expecting and the power of digesting food at regular 



58 A HAKUAL OF DIET 

interyals; and serious distarbances in its function and in the 
system result if it be disappointed. Por this reason it is 
best for those who cannot always dine early, to keep regularly 
to the late hour. The evil effects of long fasting are partly 
dependent on the infraction of this rule ; but some of them 
really result from inanition, as has been noticed under the 
head of causes of disease. Few delicate persons can bear 
much exertion of body or mind before breakfast ; the practice 
of taking an early morniog walk is only suited to the robust, 
who have fed largely and late on the preceding day. When 
it is borne in mind that food is intended not only to support 
the slow process of nutrition and reparation of the textures, 
but also to afford materials for the immediate protection of 
the blood against the chemical influence of the oxygen 
absorbed during respiration, and to guard the stomach 
against the chemical action of the gastric juice, the injurious 
tendency of long fasts becomes at once apparent, and this 
tendency is the more marked in proportion as small capacity 
in the digestive power limits the quantity of aliment that can 
be rendered available at any one time." 

The following is a list of articles of diet that the dyspeptic 
^oulddo well to avoid — pork, veal, salt meat of all kinds, 
sausages, high game, all kinds of salted fish, and all fish 
that are oily, such as eel, salmon, herring, etc.; melted 
butter and all oily condiments ; all kiads of pastry and sweets, 
raw fruit, vegetables and nuts, hot buttered toast, new bread, 
and muffins. 

• I . 

While a strict system of diet is recommended to the 
dyspeptic, it must not be supposed that he is to select the 
most digestible articles of diet and take them every day, for 
this would be conmiitting a grave error in the opposite 
direction. Variety is frequently everything to the weak 



FOR THE INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 59 

stomach, and the diet should be as varied as possible, even 
at the risk of taking a little that is set down in the foregoing- 
list. Most invalids will find a suflBcient variety among the 
articles of diet mentioned in Chapter IT, which are both easy 
of digestion and nutritious ; thus there will rarely be an excuse 
for straying from the correct path. 

Amongst the aids to digestion, judicious exercise in the 
open air holds an important place, and it is one which we 
frequently find altogether neglected or abused. No class 
suffers from indigestion more than those who have close 
confined occupations, requiring little or no muscular exer- 
tion. Women, from the nature of their employment, suffer 
more in this way than men, and they not unfrequently go 
on suffering for years until serious disease is established, and 
then, and not till then, they seek medical advice. A certain 
amount of exercise in the open air is necessary for every one, 
if the strength allows it, but persoM who are weakly must 
be careful how they take their exercise ; for injudicious exer- 
cise would only aggravate the disease it was intended to cure. 
Dr. Chambers, a London physician who has had large expe- 
rience in this disease says, that he has met with more literary 
men who suffer from^ taking too much exercise than the 
contrary. 

No one should sit down to a heavy meal when the body 
is fatigued, far less a dyspeptic. In extreme fatigue a cup 
of tea and a biscuit or a glass of light wine may be taken, 
but nothing heavier. The best kind of exercise is ridmg, the 
next best is walking, and for the weak a drive in an open 
carriage may be enough. Running and gymnastics are only 
for the strong, but whatever is the kind of exercise it should 
always be proportioned to the strength, as an excess, especially 
in those who work with the mind, would only make matters 



€0 ▲ MAKUAL OF DIET 

worse instead of better* Change of air and scene is perhaps 
the best of all known remedies for indigestion^ and though 
the effect is generally only temporary, no sufferer who can 
afford it ought to neglect this means. Who has not seen in 
himself and others the effect of a trip to the sea-side or to 
some mountainous district? The strength seems renewed, the 
appetite that was once so dainty has all at once become so 
ravenous that there is no fear of any diet, however indigestible, 
disagreeing ; the spirits that were depressed and miserable 
a week before become buoyant and joyful now, and the whole 
frame seems renewed. It is difficult to account for such a 
change, but no doubt the effect on the mind is greater than 
on the body. Continuous travelling is better than a 
residence in one place ; but when the dyspeptic from any 
reason cannot travel, a residence in a dry bracing 
atmosphere is the best. Mountain air is generally pre- 
ferable to sea air, therefore, a ramble among the mountams 
of Switzerland or the Highlands of Scotland is preferable 
to residence at the sea-side. 

Cold bathing, as a remedy for dyspepsia, is not so well 
known as it deserves. The bracing effect of a cold bath is 
not confined to the external parts of the body, it is general 
throughout the whole system. The best method of bathing 
is to plunge in the open sea early in the morning. Weak 
patients could not stand this, and it is better for them to take 
their bath about noon, when the body Is in full vigour. The 
bather ought not to stay too long in the water, for by so 
doing the body gets cooled and no proper reaction comes 
on afterwards. If a chilliness or a headache is experienced 
after the bath the treatment ought to be discontinued, as 
these are unfavourable symptons and show that the vital 
powers are too much depressed by it. A tepid bath may be 



FOB THE nrVALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 61 

substituted in such cases, or cold sponging over the region of 
the stomach and rubbing wilh a rough towel afterwards. 

Certain mineral waters are useful in some forms of dys- 
pepsia, but patients must not believe all the rubbish that 
they find in the puffing books of parties interested in drawing 
patients to certain springs. It is a well known fact that 
the good, in many instances, said to be derived from 
medicated waters, is attributable entirely to the change 
of air, change of scene, and the cheerful society that a 
patient meets with at these places.* 



* During the autmnn of last year the writer yisited the principal mineral 
wells of England, and though the towns founded on the reputation of the 
mineral are in a flourishing state, the waters themselves are getting into dig. 
repute. The splendid temples erected over these weUs were all deserted, and 
some of them, such as Cheltenham, falling into decay. The proprietors of the 
weUs were complaining sadly that visitors seemed to get careless about the 
waters, and came more for the society and bracing air than anything else. 
Harrogate seems to be the only place that is an exception to this. The waters 
are still drunk there in considerable quantities, but Harrogate has nothing else 
but its waters to recommend it ; the other places have. 

The hydropathic system seemed, indeed, to be flourishing at Great 
Malvern, but the beauty of the scenery is sufficient in Itself to attract 
visitors, and once there, if the visitor is in any degree an invalid or sup. ] 
poses himself to be one, he wiU be strong minded indeed if he does not foil a 
prey to the apostles of^hydropathy that throng that beautiftQ spot. The 
mineral water of the Leamington spa is slightly aperient and very usefid in 
cases of dyspepsia with congestion of the liver and torpor of the bowels. The 
Interesting localities and charming scenery in the neighbourhood are likewise 
a great attraction. The waters of the Royal Spa, Cheltenham, do not differ 
much from those of Leamington, but the latter is the best residence for the 
invalid in many respects. 

Tunbridge Wells and Clifton are very suitable to the dyspeptie on account 
of their climate, but the waters In these places are not suitable for ordinary 
cases of dyspepsia. 



62 A MANUAL OF DIET 



CHAPTER YI. 



HINTS ON NURSING — ^ihfortancb op domestic nubsino — 

THE SICK BOOM — ^MAXIMS OK NUBSINO — QUALIFICATIONS OF A 
NUBSE — FAINTING FITS, VOMITING — CONTAGION — ON THB 
APPLICATION OF POULTICES, STUPES, ENEMAS, BLISTEBS. 

In the few remarks I have to offer on nursing, there is 
nothing I would insist npon more than the importance of 
domestic nursing. When it is at all practicable it is better 
not to have a hired norse ; not that I by any means dis- 
parage that useful class of women who are frequently so 
indispensable to us, and perform such arduous and self- 
denying duties in our hospitals and other public institutions ; 
but I would entreat all mothers, wives, and sisters to make 
themselves acquainted with the details of nursing, and not to 
shrink from the duty when the occasion presents itself. 

In London and other large towns, where there is extensive 
hospital accommodation, there is always too much of a 
disposition to give a patient, who contracts some severe 
disease or accident, over entirely to the hospital authorities, 
on th<3 plea that the patient will be better done by than at 
home. This feeling is not confined to the poor and unedu- 
cated classes, but is often met with among the middle and 
well educated, and is nothing more nor less than a dread of 
the trouble of attending to the patient. Every London 
medical practitioner meets, almost daily, with painful in- 
stances of this sort. A husband meets with an accident or 
is taken suddenly 111^ and he is hurried off to an ho^ital. 



FOR THE INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 63 

A wife, daughter, or son shares the same fate, and sym- 
pathising relatives think they do well if they visit them twice 
a-week, and surreptitiously brinjf them some trifling luxury 
which they know is against the rules of the institution. 

Too many people are impressed with the idea that sick- 
ness is an unmixed evil, and that the less they see or know 
of it the better, whereas the reflecting mind sees in sickness 
an element of civilization, and a powerful instrument to 
check the haughty spirit of humanity, to cultivate the 
least selfish parts of our minds, and raise our natures from 
what is worldly and corrupt to what is spiritual and pure. 
Whoever doubts this proposition let him visit the wards of a 
well-conducted workhouse infirmary. There he will see the 
very outcasts of society, who have been all their lives more 
or less at war with everything good, and who during health 
have been untameable to every influence for good that has 
been brought to bear upon them ; now laid upon the bed 
of sickness the haughty spirit is broken, and a change comes 
over their minds that no amount of mere human influence 
could have brought about. Nor is this influence for good, 
which sickness brings in its train, confined to such lowly 
places as a workhouse infirmary; have we not seen it work 
wonders in the houses of the wealthy, whose very prosperity 
made them forget their duty to God and man ? In the hour 
of sickness and pain their pride is humbled, their spirit 
subdued, and thoughts come into their minds that never 
before found a place there. This good influence is not 
confined to the patient, but extends in some degree to those 
who minister to him. A thoughtless son or daughter is 
often stopped in a career of frivolity and folly to watch at 
the bedside of a sick parent, and thereby made a better 
Ghriftlan and a better member of society. 









64 A MANUAL OF DIET 

These reasons, and many more, induce the writer to> 
recommend that ladies should act the part of sick nurses in 
their own houses, as far as practicable^ and not leave the 
duty to a hireling. 

The patient very often, especially if his mind is affected in 
any degree — and it is not seldom the case in the worst 
stages of a severe illness — looks upon the hired nurse as a 
kind of enemy, and the idea of having a stranger about him 
is sufficient in itself to make him fidgety and irritable. 
Medicine or food from her hand are not so pleasant as they 
would be from the hands of a relative, who would perform 
the duty not in consideration of shillings and pence to be 
received, but out of pure love and sympathy. 

We see the poor daily recovering from severe illness ia 
miserable hovels, and that too in a shorter space of time 
than in a public hospital, where they have all the advantages 
of pure air, good nursing, and the best of medical atten- 
dance. What can this be owing to more than that the 
poor man feels he is at home, however squalid that home 
may be, and that he is not subject to the discipline of an 
hospital ; that those who minister to him are not hirelings, 
but loving relations who are sincerly interested in his re- 
covery. That our hospitals for the sick are the best 
institutions of which our country can boast few will deny ; 
but the multiplication of hospitals, if it goes on at the rate 
it has been doing for some time past in London, will one 
day be found to be an evil. Hospitals exclusively for con- 
tagious diseases are certainly necessary, and of these we have 
not yet enough, but of special hospitals we have already 
too many. 

There is no truer saying than that the good nursing of 
the sick is half the eure, and a sympathising, intelligent 



FOE THE mVAUD AND DYSPEPTIC. 65 

nurse is often of as much conseqaence to a patient as a 
physician. Yet how sadly this branch of sick aid has been 
neglected; until lately it was generally supposed that a 
woman who was fit for nothing else might do for a sick 
nurse. Miss Nightingale, who is called the modem apostle 
of sick-nursing, deserves the nation's gratitude for her 
efforts in this cause. Her work has already borne consi- 
derable fruit, and will no doubt bear more. To alleviate 
human suffering, in however humble a way, is a noble duty^ 
one peculiarly fitted to the instincts of woman's mind,, 
and we hope to see sick-nursing one day take the rank 
of an accomplishment. 

The Sick-Room. — The aspect of a sick-room ought to 
be cheerful, and, when possible, towards the south or west. 
It should not contain one article of furniture more than is 
absolutely necessary, and everything should be clean and 
in its place. An untidy room has a depressing effect on 
many patients, and none but he who has felt it can tell 
how anything out of its place will fidget and annoy him, 
A few pictures or flowers are frequently a great comfort. 
They help to vary his thoughts and take them away from 
himself, which is often of great consequence. A small pet 
animal, such as a bird, when he is recovering, will amuse him 
and help to wile the weary hours of sickness. The sick- 
room ought to be perfectly clean and sweet. No pains 
ought to be spared in this way, for anything that will in 
the least degree contaminate the atmosphere may be very 
injurious to the sick, especially where there is a wound or 
open sore either through an operation or an accident. An 
iron bedstead, with steel spring mattress, as recommended 
by Miss Nightingale, is the best ; but when this cannot be 
had^ a common iron bedstead with a hair mattress will do. 

c 



66 A MANUAL OF DIET 

The old four-posters, with close curtains, will, I hope, in a 
short time be found only in our museums. It is better that 
the room should be carpeted, if the disease is not contagious ; 
an uncarpeted room looks dismal to the patient, and the 
movements of the nurse or friends annoy him more from the 
noise ; but when it is a case of fever, carpets and all other 
materials of a like description ought, as far as possible, to 
be dispensed with. When there is sufficient room two beds 
are a great comfort to a patient. To be moved from one 
to the other is often very grateful to him and does not 
fatigue, while the bed-clothes can be changed and aired. 
Great care ought to be taken in removing the secretions 
and keeping utensils clean. A little of Condy's disinfecting 
fluid is very useful for this purpose. Ventilation ought to 
be strictly attended to, and the atmosphere changed, at least 
twice a-day. In acute diseases of the chest, ventilation 
ought to be carried out as directed by the medical attendant, 
as it will not do in every case to blow fresh air on the 
patient. The best way to ventilate a room is to let down 
the windows from the top and open the door. "While this 
is being done, if the weather is cold, a good fire ought to be 
burning, and in any weather the patient ought to be well 
covered up while ventilation is performed. When the 
atmosphere is foggy and damp outside it is better to trust 
to ventilation from the staircase than risk the introduction 
of a damp atmosphere loaded, as it often is in towns, with 
particles of soot which will irritate the patient's lungs. 

The sick chamber ought to be well lighted as a rule. 
There are certain cases of head affections in which too much 
light will aggravate suffering, but in most diseases a 
moderate quantity of light, if it does not pain the patient's 
eyes, ought to be admitted. This should ^be especially 



FOR THE INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 67 

attended to during convalescence, when light materially aids 
the progress towards recovery. Every sick-room ought to 
have a thermometer. This little instrument, which has been 
such a great aid to science, is now so cheap as to be within 
the reach of all. It is so simple that every domestic who is 
able to read figures can use it ; the most suitable temperature 
in these climates is from fifty-six to seventy. 

A bright fire is preferable to any other mode of warming,^ 
In hot weather the heat may be moderated by using qoloured 
blinds, and allowing a free circulation of air. 

Every sick-room ought to have a small table near the bed, 
but if possible out of the patient's sight, where medicine^ 
medicine glasses, drinks that the patient uses, and other 
necessaries should be kept. 

Kules for feeding a patient have been given, and need not 
be repeated here. Medicine should never be given inmaedi- 
ately after food ; it is apt to cause nausea and sickness. 
Medicines that have a disagreeable taste ought to be given 
with a dish having a long spout, with the aid of which they 
can be swallowed without causing much taste in the mouth. 
It is better not to have the medicine in the patient's sight ; this 
rule applies especially to children. Sponging with luke warm 
water is very grateful to a patient, and ought to be practised 
every morning with the permission of the medical attendant. 

In the severe stages of an illness a patient ought to be 
kept as quiet as possible, but during recovery the visits of a 
few friends, if not prolonged, will frequently cheer him and 
do him good, but this point ought to be regulated in a great 
measure by thQ patii^t's feelings. Music and reading aloud 
are often soothiAg^and help to divert attention from his 
ailments. Never allow any whispering conversation, either in 
the sick-room or outside the door ; the patient will always 

c— 2 



€3 A MANUAL OP DIET 

suppose the conversation is about himself, and that it is 
something about his ailments that it is not good for him to 
hear. This will set him thinking about his condition, and 
he will probably imagine it is worse than he thought, or his 
friends and medical attendant lead him to believe. Never be 
in a hurry in a sick-room ; it worries the patient more than 
any one is aware of. 

Qualifications of a Nurse. — ^Above all things a nurse 
ought to have a loving and sympathising heart. This is not 
an acquired faculty but a natural one, and a nurse who has 
not got it, is wanting in one of the chief elements that ought 
to form her character. Her duties will be in a great measure 
to witness suffering, and the nurse who gets callous and in- 
different to human suffering is the most odious of all beings. 
Not that I would have a nurse simper and cry over every 
patient, but I would have her feel and understand that human 
suffering is a sacred thing and comes from God, and should 
"be respected accordingly. 

Discretion is the next important qualification for a nurse. 
To be able to know when to speak and when to be silent is 
a faculty that few possess, and it must be admitted that 
women are more apt to be wanting in this than the oppopdte 
sex. Carlyle's saying that speech is silvern, but silence 
golden, is worth attending to by nurses. A chattering 
nurse is a nuisance to the patient and every one about her. 
Most nurses have, or suppose they have, some knowledge of 
diseases, and frequently take a pride in questioning the 
medical attendant's opinion, or ordering the patient some 
favourite remedy or food of their own. Although this is 
frequently done with the very best intentions, it is a prac- 
tice that cannot be too strongly condemned, as it may lead 
to infinite harm and will not benefit in one case in a thousand. 



FOR THE INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 69 

Moreover, the practice is dishonest, for it misleads the 
physician, and causes him to lose faith in his remedies when 
he finds symptoms arising that he did not calculate upon or 
expect. A nurse should never make comparisons between 
her patients. These comparisons are frequently absurd, and 
if they are made in a patient's hearing discourage and annoy. 
It is no part of a nurse's duty to offer an opinion as to the 
probability of a patient's recovery ; that ought always to 
be left to the patient's medical adviser. 

Presence of mind is an important qualification in a nurse. 
To be cool and collected in an emergency, such as that of 
a patient fainting or having a fit, is not only of great im- 
portance to the sufferer, who will have the advantage of 
having near him a person who has her wits about her, but 
will inspire the friends with confidence, and make them feel at 
ease. A nurse who gets excited is sure to blunder and do 
more harm than good. 

The dress of a nurse ought to be neat and tidy, and 
scrupulously clean ; a light colour is the best. Silks and 
crinoline are forbidden. It need hardly be mentioned that 
a nurse ought to be strictly temperate ; one who is any- 
thing else ought never to be trusted. To be able to writ© 
legibly is of great importance to a nurse, for the noting of 
symptoms and effects of remedies is often an important guide 
to the medical attendant. 

Casitalties in the Sick Room. — To know how to act 
in sudden casualties that may happen, not only in the sick 
room, but in ordinary every day life, is very important to 
every woman. What is wanting on such occasions, generally, 
is presence of mind. Every one gets excited and the patient 
may die before any one has the courage to do anything for 
him. The terror that is inspired by seeing any one faint or 



70 A MANUAL OP DIET 

fall in a fit is freqnentlj saperstltions and unmeaning, and 
ought to be combated in every possible way. 

Fainting is not an uncommon occurrence, and is caused 
by a partial cessation of the action of the heart. The 
patient feels giddy, a cold perspiration breaks out, and he is 
partially insensible for a few minutes. When he is not weak 
it is not dangerous, and no alarm ought to be felt, but if the 
fainting occurs in a person already weakened by disease it is 
not a good symptom, and recurrence ought to be ayoided 
as far as possible. Patients recoTering from dangerous 
illnesses, such as fevers, are very apt to faint when raised up 
in bed. This should be carefully guarded against, as it is 
not unattended with danger. When any such tendency 
manifests itself, patients ought to have a cup of tea with 
two teaspoonfuls of brandy in it, or two tablespoonfuls of 
beef tea, before any attempt is made to move them. If a 
patient faints away he ought to be laid flat on a bed or on 
the floor, and cold water sprinkled on his face. His neck 
should be made bare and plenty of cold air allowed to blow 
upon him. Another person ought to promote respiration 
by pressing the ribs on each side, so as to expel the foul air 
from the lungs. Wrapping the feet in warm flannel, if at 
hand, is a good plan. Where the patient is suflSciently 
recovered to be able to swallow, a little brandy or other 
stimulant may be administered ; but great caution ought to 
be observed not to administer anything while the patient is 
partially insensible, as it might go down the windpipe and 
cause suffocation. 

Fits. — Convulsions are more frequent m children than in 
adults, but they are dangerous and alarming in either. The 
fits of children generally arise from teething, or some indiges- 
tible matter in the stomach or bowels causmg irritation; 



FOE THE INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 71 

wbereas, in adults, fits seldom occnr except in epileptic or 
hysterical patients. When a child takes a fit, the first thing 
to be done is to strip off its clothes and put it into a bath, 
the heat of which is from 80 to 90 degrees. While in the 
bath, artificial respiration may be assisted as directed for 
fainting. Five minutes is about the time it ought to remain 
in the water, and when taken out it should be wrapt in a 
warm flannel or blanket. When a child takes one fit it is 
very apt to have more ; and this fact being known, some 
warm water ought to be kept in readiness in case it is wanted 
again. An aperient of some kind, such as a calomel and 
rhubarb powder, is always beneficial when a child recovers 
from a fit, and if a medical attendant is not at hand to 
advise it can always be given with safety. When fits come 
on in succession medical advice ought to be instantly 
sought, as they always indicate danger. Convulsions of 
various kinds affect adults, but two only need be mentioned 
here — viz., the epileptic, and hysterical. The former is well 
known as the " falling sickness,'* and is a very distressing 
and frequently an incurable malady. Patients affected in this 
way ought to be very careful in what they eat and drink, for 
any irregularity is sure to bring on a fit. It is very impor- 
tant to the epileptic patient, although he may not be cured, 
to ward off as many fits as possible; for each fit damages 
the brain and renders the accession of another at a shorter 
period of time more certain. By observation, and using 
certain precautions that experience sanctions, the poor 
epileptic might be saved a great many fits and his life in all 
probability materially lengthened. When a patient is in an 
epileptic fit the first thing to be done is to put a cork or 
some other soft substance between the teeth to prevent 
injury to the tongue, for this organ is frequently very much 



72 ▲ ICAMUAL OF DIET 

lacerated from getting between the teeth during the con- 
vulsive action of the strong muscles of the jaws. After this, 
everything about the neck ought to be undone and the chest 
laid bare. If the patient is a woman, loosen the stays. 
The only other precaution necessary is to see that the sufferer 
has plenty of fresh air, and that he does not injure himself 
when struggling. The administration of remedies ought not 
to be attempted, as the patient is not able to swallow for 
some time after recovery. When the fit is over he 
generally lays in a heavy sleep for some time, from which no 
attempt should be made to awaken him. 

Hysterical fits nearly always occur in women, and assume 
very various forms ; they are seldom dangerous, though 
always troublesome and alarming. 

To distinguish hysterical from epileptic fits is not always 
easy, but the following symptoms ought to be observed : — 
In real epilepsy there is always total insensibility; in 
hysteria, never. In epilepsy there is foaming at the mouth ; 
in hysteria this is rare. Screaming is frequent in hysterical 
convulsions ; but, with the exception of a premonitory 
scream, in epilepsy no such symptoms occur. These are 
the principal points of distinction between the two diseases* 
In treating hysteria, nothmg else is necessary than to see 
that the patient does not injure herself. Cold water dashed 
with some violence into the face will frequently effect a 
marvellous cure. 

BuENS AND Scalds. — Amongst the casualties that are 
apt to occur in a house, bums and scalds more or less severe 
are the most frequent, and it is important to know how to 
treat them, as many of them are of too trifling a nature to 
call for skilled medical aid, and, in severe cases, something 
majr be done before medical aid is obtained. 



FOR THE INVALID AND DTSPEPTIO. 73 

If cold can be instantly applied to a bam or scald it is 
the best remedy, but if this is not applied within fifteen 
seconds of the accident, it is worse than useless. In the 
majority of instances, therefore, it is impossible to put this plan 
into practice. The next best thing to do is to smear the 
part over with olive oil or linseed oil (one does as well as 
the other), there is no need to mix either with lime water. 
After the part is well covered with oil, some cotton wool or 
lint should be laid over it, or if neither of these articles is at 
hand, old linen rags will answer the purpose, the object 
being to protect the part from the air. If there is a great 
deal of smarting, twenty to thirty drops of laudanum may 
be taken to sooth the pain, that is provided the patient is 
an adult ; laudanum should not be administered to children. 
When blisters have risen, it is better to prick them, and 
after two days the common zinc ointment spread on lint 
should form the dressing. This may be applied once or 
twice a day, according to the amount of discharge. 

Vomiting is often a troublesome and dangerous symptom 
in a patient, and requires great skill on the part of the nurse 
to correct. The stomach not unfrequently gets into such a 
state that it will not even bear a teaspoonful of cold water 
without causing the most violent retching. When this is the 
case it is better to administer nothing to the patient by the 
mouth ; sufficient nutriment, if absolutely necessary, can be 
introduced by beef -tea enemata, and thirst can be assuaged 
by allowing small pieces of ice to dissolve in the mouth. A 
mustard poultice ought to be applied over the region of the 
stomach, and the extremities kept warm. When the 
stomach has rested for some time the irritability passes ofiF, 
and small quantities of nutriment may be given by the 
mouth. The mildest aliment is milk, mixed with an equal 



74 A MANUAL OP DIET 

quantity of lime water. This may be given at first in 
tablespoonfuls, repeated every quarter of an hour, the 
quantity being gradually increased as the stomach gets 
stronger. After a time beef-tea concentrated, and in small 
doses, guarded with a few drops of brandy, may be given,, 
or small quantities of light puddings. The best drink i& 
good soda water, given in small quantities — about a wine- 
glassful at a time, with a teaspoonful of brandy. Great 
firmness is necessary in such cases, as the patient has a 
great craving for drink, although he knows his stomach 
will reject it, and that he is none the better, but rather tho 
worse, for it. Friends are often ofi&cious, and, in their fear 
of the patient sinking, will frequently administer food inju- 
diciously, and in direct opposition to the medical attendant's 
orders. 

GoNTAGiOTT. — lu the simple diseases of children, such as 
hooping-cough and measles, the avoidance of contagion, 
except for special reasons, is unnecessary. No children, 
especially in towns, avoid these complaints, and from one to 
two years is a good age to pass through them. As to 
small-pox, it may be passed over. Every one, rich or poor, 
has the means at hand to protect himself from this the 
most terrible of our diseases, and any one who neglects 
vaccination from foolhardiness or obstinate conceit, deserves 
the punishment which is the inevitable consequence. 

Scarlet fever is a very contagious disorder, and is often 
fatal to children. By strict attention to the following rules 
it may be prevented from spreading in a house. When a 
child or grown-up person has this disorder, he ought to be 
kept to one room, and the nurse who attends to him ought 
to have nothing to do with the other inmates of the house. 
The room ought to be as bare as possible, and especially 



rOU THE INVALID AND DTSPEFTIC. 75 

should all woollen articles be dispensed with, as far as 
practicable. The room ought to be well ventilated, and some 
disinfectant, such as carbolic acid, should be exposed in it. 
The excreta ought to be disinfected with this substance, 
and the patient sponged with a weak solution of it. 

Patients ought to be kept to their rooms for five weeks. 
When these precautions are taken there is generally little 
fear of contagion or the disease spreading. In the houses 
of the poor, where there is only one room for a whole 
family, the contagious poison should be modified by strict 
attention to ventilation, and the use of disinfectants. The 
same rules apply to typhus and gastric or enteric fevers. 

Poultices. — The art of poultice-making was once con- 
sidered one of the chief accomplishments of an hospital 
nurse. These applications are not used so much now as 
formerly, but they are still in many cases not only useful, 
but indispensable. Crushed linseed is generally used for 
this purpose. It is made into a poultice by pouring boiling 
water over it in a basin, and stirring well until it is of a 
proper consistence. The principal points to be attended to 
are the proper quantity of water and thorough stkring, so 
that the poultice will be smooth and of the same consistence 
throughout. When it is intended to act as a counter- 
irritant, a little dry mustard is sprinkled over the face of it, 
and applied with a thin layer of muslin between it and the 
skin. This is a much better plan, when mustard is to be 
used, than applying the mustard with water only. Bread 
poultice is made by cutting large slices about an inch thick 
off a loaf. Put them into a basin and pour boiling water 
on; cover the basin over, and let the bread soak for ten 
mmutes, then lay it on without breaking the bread. 



76 A MANUAL OF DIET 

Another way is to rub the bread down Bmooth with the 
hand, and then pour the boiling water on it. 

A bran poultice is made by scalding bran with boiling 
water and putting it over the seat of pain. As bran is not 
adhesive, it is better to envelope it in a cloth before 
applying it. 

A turpentine stupe is made by wringing a piece of flannel 
out of hot water, then sprinkling it with turpentine, and 
applying it over the seat of pain. Care must be taken that 
too much turpentine is not used and the patient unnecessarily 
punished. Solution of ammonia may be used instead of 
turpentine when a stronger effect is desired ; but its use 
requires caution. 

Enemas. — To know how to administer an enema is very 
important. The best instrument for the purpose is the 
common india rubber pipe with a valve in the middle, and 
worked by a bulb. 

Aperient Enema. — Castor oil, one ounce; turpentine a 
teaspoonful ; warm water, two pints. 

Enema to relieve the Lower Bowel. — Warm water, 
two pints ; common soap, half-an-ounce. Dissolve. 

Starch Enemas are very useful to relieve pain, and 
bearing down of the bowels. The starch should be made 
in the orduiary way, but rather thinner, and a few drops of 
laudanum added to it, according to the age of the patient* 
It ought to be remembered that laudanum acts on the 
system when given in this way as well as when given by the 
mouth. It is, therefore, dangerous to give it to children 
without medical advice. The india-rubber bottle, with a 
smooth ivory pipe, is the best instrument for children. 

In common constipation an enema of warm water is 
freg[uently preferable to an aperient dose. People often 



FOR THE INVALID AND DYSPEPTIC. 77 

get into a habit of taking purgative medicines, which is 
difficult to leave off, and which inevitably leads to indiges- 
tion, and still more obstinate constipation. By usmg a 
warm water enema occasionally, this state of things may 
be obviated, and a natural action of the bowels induced, 
which may be still further helped by using a diet calculated 
to act on the lower intestine. Brown bread, as mentioned 
before, is good for this purpose. Stewed fruit, and fresh 
vegetables well cooked, are likewise recommended. 

Busters. — As blisters are always prepared at the 
chemists, no directions for preparing them need be given 
here. A fly blister is a strong remedy, and ought not to be 
used without medical advice. A blister ought to remain on 
from four to ten hours, as the medical attendant orders. 
Some people have very tender skins, on these a period of 
four hours will produce more effect than ten hours on 
others. Although there may be no raising of the skin 
when the blister is removed, if a poultice is applied it is sure 
to rise in a short time. Where the vesicles are large they 
ought to be clipped. Spermaceti ointment on cotton wool 
may be applied for a dressing. The active principle of 
Spanish flies spread on paper, as prepared by Mr. Brown, 
of Birmingham, is generally preferable to the old cantharides 
ointment. The preparation of a mustard blister is too well- 
known to require description. A very elegant French 
invention has lately been introduced into this country 
called "mustard leaves." They are sold by every chemist, 
and are quite as effectual as the ordinary mustard poultice, 
their preparation gives less trouble, and they are more 
cleanly. 

Application of Leeches. — To cause leeches to bite is 
sometimes rather difficult, especially if any lotion or liniment 



78 ▲ KAKUAL OF DIET 

has been applied to the part where it is intended they should 
adhere, and they are often prevented from bitmg by awkward 
handling of them. It should be remembered that leeches 
are very tender animals, and that they are very easily 
poisoned or hurt. Great care should therefore be taken in 
appl3ring them, especially to see that the hands are clean 
before they ai'e handled, and that the part to which they 
are to be applied is thoroughly cleansed, first with soap and 
water, and afterwards with cold water, for any smell of 
medicine will sicken them and make them useless. 

The best method is to put them in an empty tumbler and 
invert it on the part to which they are wanted to adhere. 
K the part is not too hot with inflammation, and they are 
healthy leeches, they ore generally sure to bite. A little 
sugar and cream applied on the part, or a little weak solution 
of any wine, will sometimes tempt them to bite when other 
means have failed. 

NuTRiTiVB Enemas. — Occasionally it is necessary to 
administer nourishment to the patient by the bowel. The 
operation is accomplished iii the same way as administering 
an ordinary purgative enema, but small quantities must be 
injected at a time ; for if the bdwel is distended too much 
it is sure to contract and reject its contents. The nourish- 
ment ought to be of the most concentrated kind and 
injected very cautiously. A strong solution of Liebig's 
essence of beef, with a little brandy and the yolk of an egg, 
makes a suitable injection for an adult. 

Bed Sores. — ^During a long illness that confines a patient 
to a certain posture, the skin of those parts that bear the 
greater part of the weight of the body becomes inflamed, 
frequently breaks, and sores are formed. These sores are 
called ^* bed sores/' and are a source of great pain and 



FOR THE INVALID AND DTSPEPTIC. 79 

annoyance to the patient, being, when once formed, very 
difficult to heal. Every precaution should therefore be 
taken to prevent them if possible. To accomplish this, the 
threatening parts ought to be relieved of pressure as far as 
possible. This may be done by placing beneath the patient 
a circular water or air cushion, which can be procured at 
any india rubber manufacturers, or a soft pad of fine carded 
cotton wool, which must be frequently changed. The parts 
ought to be sponged with a strong infusion of oak bark 
and then dusted with oxide of zinc. If a sore has actually 
formed, the best dressing is oxide of zinc ointment spread 
on some soft lint, and a pad of cotton wool under the part. 
When a patient is helpless and not able to move in bed he 
should always have a draw sheet under him. This is simply 
a sheet folded double which is placed so as to reach from 
the loins to the middle of the thighs. This can be changed 
often without any great inconvenience to the patient, and is 
an excellent contrivance for keeping the bed from getting 
soiled. 



APPENDIX OF FOMUM. 



The following receipts are mostly collected from the best works 
on cookery. Some of them are altered to suit the digestion of the 
invalid. In making the selection, care has been taken to present 
as great a variety as possible without departing from the legitimate 
sphere of invalid diet. 

SOUPS AND NOURISHING BROTHS. 

Beef Tea— Liebig*8 Extract. 

Mince very small a pound of good juicy lean beef. Pour upon 
it one pint of cold water. Place in an oven, or by the fire, 
covered, for three or four hours. It must not be boiled, and the 
heat should not exceed 150°. Add salt and pepper to the taste. 

Weak beef tea may be made with cold water. Infuse the 
minced beef in cold water for six or eight hours, then press the 
juice out of the meat. Heat the liquor when wanted, and add 
43alt and pepper. 

Another Porm. 

The beef must be very fresh. Take four pounds of the upper 
side of the round, cut it into small pieces (leave out every bit 
of fat), put it into a jar with a saltspoonful of salt and three pints 
of cold water ; tie it closely down, place it in a saucepan of water, 
and let it boil gently for^five hours. Strain and serve with 
fresh made dry toast cut in fingers. The precaution of passing a 
piece of stale bread over the surface, lest there be any particle of 
fat, will be well observed. 

Note. — Boiled rice or tapioca may be added if liked. 

Mixed Meat Tea. 
One pound of lean beef, one pound of lean veaJ, one pound of 
lean mutton, all very fresh, and cut up into small pieces. Put the 
meat into a bright stewpan with three pints of water, a saltspoonful 
of salt, and simmer gently, skimming often for four hours ; then 
strain. Twenty minutes before serving moisten a teaspoonful of 



<♦. 



APPENDIX OF FOBMULiE TO ▲ MANUAL OF DIET. 81 

Du Barry's Reyalenta Arabica with a wineglass! ul of cold water, 
and stir into half a pint of the tea; boil slowly for twenty 
minutes^— Crsftdd. 

Cold Essence of Beef. 
Take half a pound of newly killed beef or fowl, chop it fine, add 
twelye ounces of distilled water, four drops of pure muriatic acid, 
84 to 67 grains of common salt, and stir well together. After an 
hour the whole is to be thrown on a conical hair sieve, and the 
fluid allowed to pass through without any pressure. The first 
thick portions that pass are to be returned to the sieve until the 
fluid runs through quite clear. On the flesh residue in the sieve 
pour slowly six ounces of distilled water, and let it run through. 
There will be thus obtained about sixteen fluid ounces of cold 
juice (cold extract of flesh) of a red colour, and possessing a 
pleasant taste of soup ; of which a wincglassful may be taken at 
pleasure. It must not be warmed (at least not to a greater extent 
than can be effected by partially filling a bottle with it, and stand- 
ing this in hot water), since it is rendered muddy by heat, and 
deposits a thick coagulum of albumen and the colouring matter 
of blood. Very valuable in cases of continued fever, in dysentery, 
and indeed in all diseases attended with great prostration and 
weakness of the digestive organs. When the flavour is thought 
disagreeable it may be concealed by the addition of spice, or of a 
wincglassful of claret to each teacupf ul of soup. 

Essence of Beef. 

Take a pound of lean beef free from skin and fat, chop it up, 
put it into a large earthen jar with cover, cement the edges with 
flour paste, tie it up tightly with a cloth, plunge it into a saucepan 
and let it boil for two hours, pour off the liquid essence from the 
coagulated muscle ; let it stand till cold and skim off the fat. 

When beef tea cannot be immediately procured, or when the 
patients are not likely to get it properly prepared, Gillon's beef tea 
or Liebig's extract form good substitutes. They are sold by most 
^ respectable Chemists and Grocers, and directions for preparing 

them accompany each packet or tin. Many preparations arc now 
sold under the name of Liebig's essence of beef, but that prepared 
by Mr. Tooth of Sydney, and sold in London by Messrs. Coleman, 
of 18, St. Mary-at-hill, E.C., is the purest. 



>' 



82 APPENDIX OF FORMULiE 

Invalid Soup. 
Gravj beef, 1 lb. ; scragg of mutton, 1 lb. ; isinglass, 2 oz. ; 
yermicelli, 3 oz. ; mushroom ketchup, 3 tablespoonf uls ; corns of 
allspice, 24 ; sage, a sprig ; cold water, 3 quarts ; put the isinglass 
and the meat cut small into the cold water, gradually boil, skim 
well, and then add the other ingredients; simmer four or five 
hours till reduced to 1 quart, strain through a fine hair sieve, and 
carefully remove all fat ; add salt to the taste. This may be taken 
cold, as a jelly, or warm, as a soup. 

Mutton Broth. 
Neck of mutton (fat removed as far as possible), 1 lb. ; cold 
water, 2 pints ; gently boil six hours to yield I pint of broth, from 
which all fat is to be removed on cooling. 

Mutton ob Vbal Broth. 
Take of mutton or veal, four pounds ; cold water, three quarts ; 
a little salt ; and rice, 4 oz. Simmer for four hours, boil for a few 
minutes, strain, and serve. 

Chicken and Veal Broth. 
These are esteemed lighter, and less stimulating, than beef tea. 
They contain a good deal of gelatine, which here replaces the 
albumen of beef. Take a knuckle of veal, a cow heel or two, or 
the legs and wings of fowls, and divide into pieces the size of 
walnuts. Boil slowly for two hours. Flavour with parsley, leeks, 
or onions to taste. Add pepper and salt. 

Chicken Broth. 

Cut up a fowl, and break the leg bones ; put it into a stewpan, 
with a quart of cold water, a teaspoonf ul of. salt, and a teaspoonf nl 
of loaf sugar. Boil gently, skimming constantly, for four hours. 
Strain into a basin. When cold, take off the iat. Make a cupful 
hot when required. 

Note, — ^With this broth a little tender macaroni may be served 

for a change. Boil the macaroni in plenty of water, with half-a- 

Baltspoonf ul of salt in it, till quite tender, drain on a sieve, and cut 

into half -inch lengths 

Vbal Tea. 

Cut up into small pieces three pounds of lean veal ; pnt it into 

an enamelled saucepan, with three pints of cold water, and a salt* 



TO ▲ IIAKUAL OF DIET. 83 

spoonful of salt. When it boils, skim tqtj caref ullj. Simmer for 
three hours. Strain Into a basin. When cold, take off the fat. 
When required, pour half a pint, while boiling, on to a teaspoonful 
of arrowroot, mixed with a dessertspoonful of the cold real tea. 

MiKCED Chickbk. 
Cut the meat off a small chicken, free it from skin and sinews, 
And crack the bones. Put the bones and trimmings into an 
enamelled saucepan with a pint of water and a saltspoonf ul of salt, 
and simmer, skimming frequently, for two hours and a half, then 
strain and skim off all the fat. Mince the meat and dredge oyer it 
a teaspoonful of Oswego flour, put into the gravj, and simmer 
(stirring often) for twenty-five minutes, then serve with toasted 
bread sippets. Cooked chicken may be used ; in that case omit the 
Oswego, and add the well-beaten yolk of a new-laid egg, stirred in 
for one minute before serving, and simmer only for ten minutes. 

Bboiled Mutton Chop. 

The chops should be off the middle of the loin, three-quarters of 
an inch thick, and not too fat. The gridiron must be quite clean, 
the fire quick and bright, the chops turned two or three times with 
steak tongs, or by placing a fork in the fat. For those who like 
them underdone, ten minutes will be suflScient ; well done, fifteen 
minutes. Serve them between two hot plates (a chop to each per- 
son) the moment they are done and without any addition. 

Note, — ^In giving orders to the butcher for mutton chops, be 
particular in saying three quarters of an inch thick off the middle 
of the loin, and well kept old mutton. — Crbfyod. 

Bablbt Soup. 

One pound of shin of beef, four ounces of pearl barley, one 

small onion, one potato, salt and pepper to taste, one and a half 

pint of water. Put all the ingredients into a pan, and simmer gently 

for four hours. Strain, return the barley, and heat up as much as 

required. 

Stewkd Otsters. 

Half a pint of oysters, half an ounce of butter, flour, one-third 

of a pint of cream, cayenne and salt to taste. Scald the oysters in 

their own liquor, take them out, beard them, and strain the liquor. 

Pat the batter into a stew pan, dredge in sufficient flour to dry 



84 APPENDIX OP FOBMULfi 

it up, add the oyster liquor, and stir it over a sharp fire with n 
Tfooden spoon. When it comes to a boil, add the cream, oysters,, 
and seasoning. Let all simmer for one or two minutes, but ^* not 
longer," or the oysters will harden. Serve on a hot dish, with 
croutons, or toasted sippits of bread. A quarter of a pint of 
oysters, the other ingredients in proportion, make a dish large 
enough for one person. 

Rabbit Soup. 
Take a rabbit and soak it in warm water, when quite clean, cut 
it in pieces, and put it into a stew pan, and a teacupful, of veal 
stock or broth ; simmer slowly till done through, and then add one 
quart of water, and boil for an hour. Take out the rabbit and pick 
the meat from the bones, covering it up to keep it white ; put the 
bones back into the liquor and simmer for two hours ; skim and 
strain, and let it cooL Found up the meat in a mortar, with the 
yolks of two hard boiled eggs, and the crumb of a French roll 
previously soaked in milk ; rub it through a tammy ; gradually add 
the strained liquor, and simmer for fifteen minutes. If liked thick, 
mix some arrow-root with half a pint of new milk, bring it to a 
boil, mix with the soup and serve. If preferred thin, have ready 
some pearl barley and vermicelli boiled in milk and add to the soup 
instead of the arrowroot. Serve with little squares of toast or 
fried bread. 

LIGHT, FARINACEOUS, AND OTHER FOODS. 

Sago. 
Put half an ounce of sago into an enamelled saucepan with 
three-quarters of a pint of cold water, and boil gently for one hour 
and a quarter. Skim when it comes to the boil, and stir frequently. 
Sweeten with a dessertspoonful of sifted loaf sugar. If wine be 
ordered^ two dessertspoonfuls, and if brandy, one dessertspoonful. 

Tapioca Milk. 
Half an ounce of the best tapioca to a pint and a quarter of 
new milk. Simmer gently for two hours and a quarter stirring 
frequently. Sweeten with a dessertspoonful of sifted sugar 

FORKIDGB. 

Put one pint of cold water into a saucepan and add a dessert- 



TO ▲ MAlf UAL OF DIET. 85 

spoonful of salt, let the water boil and then begin to add about 
three ounces of oatmeal slowly, keep stirring well with a spoon sa 
that the meal does not get into lumps. Let it boil for twenty 
minutes over a slow fire and keep occasionally stirring it. Then 
turn out into a plate and when sufficiently cool senre with milk, 

• EiCE Milk. 

Wash a tablespoonful of the best rice, and boil it an hour and 
a half in a pint of new milk. Rub through a fine sieve. Sweeten 
with a dessertspoonful of sifted sugar. Boil up again for two 
minutes. 

Arrowboot. 

Mix two teaspoonfuls of the best arrowroot with half a wine- 
glassful of cold water ; add half a pint of boiling water ; put it into 
an enamelled saucepan, and stir over the fire for three minutes. 
Sweeten with three teaspoonfuls of sifted sugar. Add (if permitted 
to take it) either a wineglassful of white wine or a tablespoonful 

of brandy. 

Junket. 

Warm a quart of new milk just to the heat it would be if fresh 
from the cow. Put it into a glass dish or china bowl, and stir into 
it a tablespoonful of brandy, a tablespoonful of pounded sugar, 
and a tablespoonful and a-half of rennet. Put this just near 
enough to the fire to keep warm while turning, but do not let it 
get hot. When quite solid, put a little scalded cream over it, and 
grate a little nutmeg on the top. 

The brandy may be omitted, if not liked; and if common rennet 
is not easily obtainable, essence of rennet (which can be had of any 
good chemist, and will keep any time) will do as well. 

Junket is a delicious dish in summer ; and especially light and 
nourishing for an invalid 

Custard. 

Put half a pint of new milk into a lined saucepan, with three 
ounces of loaf sugar, and the thinly-pared rind of half a lemon^ 
and set it by the fire to get warm, and draw out the flavour of the 
lemon. Then boil it once up, and strain it into a basin. Beat up 
well two eggs, the yolks and whites first separately, and then 
together; and when the milk has got nearly cold add them 
gradually to it. Now strain the whole into a jug, which put into 



66 APPENDIX OF FOBMTJLfi 

saucepan of boiling water. Pat this on the fire, and keep stirring 
the cnstard one way until it thickens^ when take it off the fire, 
ponr it into a basin, and stir in a tablespoonfnl of brandy. Keep 
stirring the custard till it cools, and then put it into glasses, and 
^ate a little nutmeg over it. 

EXCSLLEMT RiCB FuDBIKO. 

Take three ounces of the best Carolina rice, and swell it very 
gently in one pint of new milk. Let it cool ; then stir into it one 
ounce of fresh butter, two ounces of pounded sugar, the yolks of 
three eggs, and the grated rind of a lemon, or a few drops of the 
essence. Four this into a well buttered dish, but do not quite fill 
it, and then lay lightly over the top the whites of three eggs which 
have been well beaten up, with three tablespoonf uls of sifted sugar. 
Put the pudding directly into the oven, the heat of which must be 
moderate, and bake it for about twenty minutes ; or till the egg 
•crust has become lightly browned. 

Sago, tapioca, or macaroni, make capital puddings done in the 
■same way. 

Stewed Apples. 

Peel and core six apples (according to their size), and boil them 
to a pulp, after which pass them through a sieve or colander, and stir 
into them one ounce of sifted loaf sugar. 

Whipt Syllabub. 

Boil half a pint of cream, and then let it stand till cold. Tako 
one glass of white wine — Sherry, Marsala, or Madeira — and add to 
it the juice of quarter of a lemon, and as much sifted sugar as will 
make it very sweet. Put this, with the cream, into a basin, and 
keep whisking it rapidly all one way. Take off the froth as it rises, 
and put it into glasses. 

An agreeable and cooling diet in cases of fever. 

Abbow&oot Milk. 

Mix two teaspoonf uls of arrowroot with a wincglassf ul of new 
milk ; add half a pint of boiling milk \ put it into an enamelled 
saucepan, and stir over the fire for three minutes. Sweeten withT 
a dessertspoonful of sifted loaf sugar. 



TO A MANUAL OF DIET. 87 

Indian Cokn Floweb. 

Mix a dessertspoonful of Brown and Poison's Indian Corn Flonr 
with a wineglassf al of new milk ; add half a pint of hoiling milk^ 
and stir over the fire for four minutes. Sweeten with a teaspoon^ 
f ul of sifted loaf sugar. Add if permitted a tablespoonf ul of good 
cream. 

Cow Heel for Contalescents. 

Wash a fresh boiled cow heel in cold water, cut the meat off 
the bones in neat square pieces ; put it into a bright stewpan with 
one pound of lean veal uncut, a saltspoonful of salt* a saltspoonful 
of sifted sugar, a mustard-spoonful of fresh-made mustard, and a 
pint of cold water. Boil up slowlj, skim, then simmer gently for 
three hours, skim and stir frequently. Mix a teaspoonful of 
arrowroot with a wineglassf ul of cold water ; take out the yeal, and 
stir in the arrowroot, add two tablespoonfuls of good brown sherry,, 
and serye immediately. 

Cow Heel Stewed in Milk. 
Follow the preceding receipt, omitting the real and substi- 
tuting milk for water. Half an hour before serving, mix a des- 
sertspoonful of arrowroot with half a gill of cold milk, and stir 
in ; omit the sherry. 

Macaboni and Yebmicelli. 

Add a little cold water to an ounce of either of the above.. 
Boil for a few minutes, then pour away the water, and boil in half 
a pint of milk ; or they may be made into puddings and baked. 

Macaroni is a very cheap and valuable article of sick-room, 
diet. It and vermicelli may be advantageously added to any kind 
of broth, or eaten with a chicken or a chop, in place of vegetables*. 
It is a perfectly safe food in all stages of illness. 

To Boil Tbipb. 
This excellent food is not appreciated, at least by the wealthier 
classes, as it deserves to be. It is the most easily digestible of all 
meats ; indeed it comes nearest to the pudding tribe. See that the 
tripe has been well cleaned, boil it in water until quite soft, then* 
pour off the water and boil for a few minutes in milk, adding a^ 
little onion sauce. Serve in a tureen. 



88 APPENDIX OP FORMULiB 

How TO Boil Hicb. 
Wash a quarter of a pound of rice, and throw it into a pint of 
boiling water ; boil for ten minutes, or longer, till each grain of 
rice is soft and separate. Drain it in a siere, or on a clean cloth ; 
put it in a pot, and set it near the fire ; it will continue to swell. 
It may be eaten with a little butter or sugar, or with salt ; or may 
be sweetened with treacle. It may have fresh fruit or a little 
preserve mixed with it. It will also be ready to put into broth. 

Bice amd Apple. 
Boil about three tablespoonfuls of rice in a pint and a half of 
new milk, and simmer till the rice is quite tender, stirring it from 
time to time ; have ready some apples, peeled, cored, and stewed 
to a pulp, and sweetened with a very little loaf sugar ; put the rice 
round a plate and the apple in the middle, and serve with a little 
of the following preparation of milk in a cream jug, if liked. 

Milk for Puddings ob Stewed Fruit. 
Boil a strip of lemon and two cloves in a pint of milk, mix a 
teaspoonf ul of arrowroot in a little cold milk and add to it the 
boiling milk. Stir to about the consistency of cream ; have ready 
yolks of three eggs beaten up well in a little milk, take the hot 
milk off the fire and as it cools add the eggs and a tablespoonf ul of 
orange-flower water, stirring it constantly till quite cool. Put it 
in a cold place till required for use. 

Fruit Cream 
Apples, gooseberries, rhubarb, or any fresh fruit To every 
pint of pulp, one pint of milk or cream^ sugar to taste. Prepare 
the fruit as for stewing ; put it into a jar with two tablespoonfuls of 
water, and a little good moist sugar. Set this jar in a saucepan of 
boiling water, and let it boil till the fruit is soft enough to mash. 
When done enough beat it to a pulp, work this pulp through a 
colander, and stir. To every pint the above proportion of milk or 
cream, of course the latter is preferable if obtainable. Sweeten, 
and serve in a glass dish. 

Milk, Hum, and Isinglass. 
Dissolve a pinch of the best isinglass in a little hot water over 
the fire ; when dissolved, let it cool and mix with it a dessert- 
spoonful of rum in a tumbler, fill up the glass with new milk. 



TO A MANUAX OF DIET. 89 

Shesst OB Bkandt JlVt> Milk. 

Put one tablespoonful of brandy, or one wineglassf ul of sherry 
into a bowl or cnp. Put powdered sugar and a very little nutmeg 
to taste. Warm a breakfast-cupful of new milk, and pour it into 
a jug with a spout. Hold it up very high and pour it over the wine, 
BugiU^, &e. The milk must not boil. 

Mulled Wikb. 
Boil some spice, cloves, nutmeg, cinnamon, or mace, in a little 
water, just to flavour the wine. When done, add a wineglassf ul 
of sherry or any other wine and some sugar, bring it to boiling 
point and serve with sippets of toast. If claret is used it will 
require a good deal of sugar. The vessel that the wine is boiled 
in should be scrupulously clean, and must be kept exclusively for 
the purpose. 

Egg akd Shekrt. 
Beat up an egg well with a fork till it froths, add a lump of 
sugar, and two tablespoonf uls of water. When well mixed, pour in 
a wineglassf ul of sherry, mix it well together, and serve before it gets 
flat. The same may be made with half the quantity of brandy 
instead of the sherry. 

Milk, Egg, and Bsakdt. 
Scald some new milk, but do not let it boil, it ought to be put 
into a saucepan of boiling water in a jug, and let to scald very 
gradually. When the surface looks thick it is sufficiently done, 
and should be put away in a cold place, in the same vessel in 
which it was scalded. It must not be used till quite cold ; then 
beat up a fresh egg with a fork, in a tumbler with a lump of sugar, 
when beaten quite to a froth, add a dessertspoonful of brandy, and 
fill up the tumbler with scalded milk. 

Macaboni. 
This is a light nourishing food, and not dear ; for it weighs little 
and goes a very long way. Soak it in water for a short time, boil 
it in Bait and water (be careful not to make it too salt), till it is 
swelled to three times its original size, and till it is perfectly ten- 
der. It may be eaten quite plain, or with a little butter, or it may 
be added to weak broth. 



90 APPENDIX OF FOBMULiB 

Macaroni may be boiled in milk aod sweetened. It is very 
good in a padding ; after it has been simmered in milk till tender, 
put it into a baking-dish with sugar, an egg beaten up in more 
milk, and bake. 

A Means of GiviNa Wiitb. 

Toast lightlj a piece, of bread, rather more (ban an inch in 

thickness ; laj it in a soup plate or large saucer ; put sugar upon, 

either fine brown or powdered white ; pour the wine (usually port) 

upon it, and see that the toast is soaked ; grate nutmeg over it. 

The size of the toast must of course depend upon the quantity of 

wine to be taken. Strong ale may be giren in the same way, where 

it is desirable. 

To Mull Wine. 

Beat up the yolk of one or more eggs perfectly ; scald a glass 

or more, as required, of port or white wine, and melt in it a lump 

or two of sugar. Stir the egg rapidly one way, never changing 

the direction of the spoon, and keep stirring while you pour in the 

wine very gradually. Have another glass or basin ready, and pour 

the mixture quickly, two or three times^ from one vessel to 

another, which process makes it froth. 

Egg Milk. 
Beat up the yolk of an egg in a breakfast cup ; when quite 
frothy stir into a cup of hot milk and sweeten to taste. 

Suet and Milk. 
Put a tablespoonful of shredded beef suet into half a pint of 
fresh milk, warm it sufficiently to completely melt the suet ; then 
skim it, pour it into a warm glass or cup, and drink it before it 
cools. 

Milk, with Rum, Bbandt, ob Whiskbt. 
Put one tablespoonful of rum, brandy, or whiskey into half a 
pint of new milk, and mix well by pouring several times from one 
vessel to another. Bilious persons should heat the rum in a spoon 
over a lamp before adding it to the milk. 

Egg Wine. 
Beat up well the yolk of an egg in a tumbler with a wineglass* 
ful of cold water, and the same quantity of sherry. Add sifted 
sugar to taste, and drink while frothy. 



TO A MANUAL OF DIET. 91 

JELLIES FOR INVALIDS. 

Orange Jellt. 
Take an ounce of gelatine or isinglass, and melt it in a small 
quantity of hot water. Squeeze the juice out of six oranges op of 
two lemons, or oranges and lemons mixed ; put in some of the outer 
rind pared thin, and a quarter of a pound of lump sugar. After 
melting the sugar in some hot water, pour on the juice, then boil 
the whole for two or three minutes, and strain. Wine or brandj 
may be added when required. 

Arrowroot Jellt. 
Put into a saucepan half a pint of water, one glass of sherrj, a. 
little nutmeg, and sugar. Give them a boil up, then mix slowly a 
dessertspoonful of arrowroot with cold water, return the whole inta 
the saucepan and boil for three minutes. 

Calves' Feet in Milk. 

Boil two calves' feet in two pints of water and milk, for three 
hours and a half. 

Isinglass Jellt. 

Put one ounce (or rather more) of isinglass or gelatine (the 
former is best) into a saucepan, with one quart of water. Let it 
boil up, and keep it at a quick boil, skimming it well all the time, 
till the quantity is reduced one half. Now add to it one pint of 
sherry, and lemon juice and loaf sugar to your taste. Boil it all 
up together, and if there is any more scum take it o£f, and then 
strain it through a bag into a mould. The jelly should be quite 
clear. 

This jelly is very useful when calves' feet cannot easily be got, 
or when they take too long to prepare. The isinglass and gelatine 
vary so much, though, in quality, that it is almost impossible to 
give the exact proportions of either for making a good, but not stiff 
jelly. About an ounce and a-half, though, of isinglass, and an 
ounce of gelatine, is generally the quantity it takes to make a 
quart of jelly after the wine is added. In summer, this jelly may 
be varied, by adding the strained juice of any fruit preferred, such 
as raspberries or currants, instead of the wine and lemon juice, and 
will be found very cooling. 



/* 



92 APPENDIX OP FORMULA 

ICELAVD Moss JeLLT. 

Take one ounce of Iceland moss, wash it well, then break it np, 
and pat it to stand all night in water, just tepid when the moss is 
put in. Kext morning take it out, and boil it in a quart of water 
till the quantity is reduced one half. Then strain it off into a basin. 

This jellj is a slight tonic, rather bitter; and maj be taken 
either plain or with milk or wine. 

The Invalid's Jellt. 

Boil one calf s foot in two pints and a-half of water, till it is 
reduced to one pint and a-half. Strain it through a sieve, and 
when cold take off the fat, add to it a quarter of a pint of milk or 
wine, the rind of a lemon, thlnlv pared; a little nutmeg or cinnamon, 
and sugar to the taste. Boil all this together for about five minutes 
and then strain it through a sieve. 

BsEAD Jelly. 

Cut the crumb of a pennj roll into slices, after haying taken off 
the crust from it. Toast these of a light brown on both sides, and 
then put them into a quart of spring water, and let them simmer 
gentlj oyer the fire till the liquid jellies. Strain this through a 
thin cloth, and while hot flavour it with lemon juice and sugar, and 
a little wine, if liked. 

In the country, where a roll cannot always be had, slices of 
bread crumb cut and toasted, will be found to do quite as well. 
This jelly is very strengthening ; and if made plain, without flavour- 
ing, may be taken in broth, milk, or any other liquid. 

Sago Jellt. 

Wash well, and then boil a quarter of a pound of sago, in about 
a pint of water for one hour. Take one pound of strawberries, 
raspberries, or currants ; sweeten them well with loaf sugar, and 
then boil them for a short time till they are soft, and will rub 
through a sieve. When this is done, put the fruit back into the 
saucepan, with nearly half a pint of water, and about half an ounce 
of isinglass or gelatine. Boil this up, but not for too long ; after 
which, mix the sago thoroughly with the fruit, and then boil the 



TO ▲ MANUAX OF DIET. ' 93 

whole together for a few minutes. Put into a mould, and turn out 
when cold. 

If properly made this is an excellent summer dish. 

Scotch Apple Jelly. 

Late, firm apples to he peeled and quartered^ or 'sliced, hut not 
cored. Each apple as quicklj as cut to he thrown into a pan with 
just enough water to cover them. To he hoiled in the same till 
quite soft, with a little sliced ginger and lemon peel to flayour it. 
Strain the juice through a jelly -hag near the fire into a hasin. To 
every pint of apple juice add one pound of loaf sugar. When 
dissolved, pour it into jars or moulds, in which it is to he kept. It 
will hecome finer for keeping, and will last many years. 

Green gooseherry jelly may he made of unripe fruit in the same 
way. Give the jelly one hoil up after the sugar is dissolved, to make 
it firmer ; and should there he any scum, take it off. 

Seville Obanoe Jellt. 

To every pound of hitter orange put three pints of water. Cut 
the orange into small pieces, peel and all, only keeping out the 
seeds. Let them hoil slowly for six hours or more, till they are 
reduced to a third of the quantity. Run it through a jelly-hag, 
and to every pint of juice add one pound of loaf sugar. Boil again 
slowly for ahout twenty minutes, or till it will jelly. 

This is a capital way of taking a mild tonic. 

White Wine Jelly. 

One pint of sherry, one ounce of isinglass, two ounces of sugar- 
candy, half an ounce of gum Arahic, the quarter of a small nutmeg, 
grated, and enough loaf sugar to sweeten the whole. Simmer these 
ingredients together till all are dissolved ; then strain the liquid 
through a piece of fine muslin into a mould or hasin, and when cold 
it will he a stiff jelly. 

The isinglass may he dissolved in a little hot water hefore it is 
added to the other ingredients ; and the nutmeg may he omitted 
if the flavour is not liked. A tahlespoonf ul may he taken several 
times a day. 



94 IPPKNDIX OF rORMUL£ 

Port Wine Jelly. 
Take of port wine one pint, isinglass one onnce, sngar one onnce ; 
pnt the isinglass and sngar into quarter of a pint of water, warm 
till all is dissolved, then add the wine ; strain through muslin, and 
set to jelly. 

DRINKS FOR THE SICK AND INVALID. 

Toast and Water. 
Toast a slice, or small lump of bread, till it is very brown, but 
not burnt black ; then put it into a jug of cold water ; cover it, and 
let it stand an hour. 

Barlet Water. 

Take two ounces of pearl barley; wash it well, and then boil it 
for fifteen or twenty minutes in a pint of cold water. Pour this 
off, and then add to the barley two quarts of boiling water, the 
thinly-pared rind of a lemon, and sugar to the taste. Boil till 
reduced one-half, and then strain it into a jug. 

A little lemon juice may be used also, or instead of the peel if 
preferred. 

Gruel. 

This is best made from Robinson*s prepared groats. Directions 
for making it accompany each packet. 

White Wike Whet. 

Put half a pint of new milk in a saucepan on the fire, and bring 
it to a boil. As soon as it boils up, pour in a glass of sherry, or 
more if required— enough to turn the milk entirely, and make it 
look clear. Let it boil up again, and then set the saucepan aside 
till the curd subsides, but do not stir it. In a short time the whey 
may be poured gently off, a little sifted sugar added, and it is fit to 
drink. 

If too strong, a little boiling water may be added. 

Peter Drink. 
Put a large dessertspoonful of black currant jelly or preserved 
tamarinds into a tumbler, and fill it up with boiling water. When 
cold it Is fit to drink. If too sweet, add a little more water. 



TO A MANUAL OP DIET. 95 

Claket Cup. 

Half a tumbler of good claret, mixed with the same quantity of 
soda water, makes a delicious, cool, summer drink. It can be 
sweetened or flavoured according to taste. 

Tea or Coffee with Ego. 

Beat up a fresh egg well in a breakfast cup till it is quite frothj. 
Then fill up the cup with either tea or coffee, adding milk and 
sugar to your taste. 

To a delicate person there is much more support given in a cup 
of tea or coffee made in this way than if taken plain. 

Cbeam of Tabtas. 

(A cooling drink.) 

Put half an ounce of cream of tartar, the juice of one lemon, 
and one tablespoonful of sifted sugar into a jug, and pour over a 
quart of boiling water. Cover till cold. 

Apple, currant, raspberry, and tamarind water is made by 
pouring boiling water over the pulp of the fruit, letting it 
stand for about half an hour, and then straining and sweetening 
to taste. 

TiLULE. 

This is an agreeable drink, and is made by pouring a pint of 
cold water on a handful of the dried flowers of the lime, and 
allowing it to stand for a few hours. 

To MAKE Coffee. 
Take of pure ground coffee two ounces, put it in a percolator 
and slightly moisten it with cold water ; let it stand all night, and 
then pour over it a pint of boiling water. Let it percolate in 
the oven or some hot place, and when twelve ounces have passed 
through add to it the same quantity of boiling milk ; it is then 
ready for use. 

Cocoa. 
Take of cocoa nibs two ounces, water one quart : boil for five 
hours, then let it stand till cold and skim off the fat. Boil up 
the cocoa again, and add to it half its bulk of boiling milk. The 
quantity ought not to exceed two breakfast cupfuls. 



96 APPENDIX OP FOEOIUUR TO A MANUAL OF DIET. 

Linseed Tea. 

Fat an ounce of linseed and one pint of boiling water into a jug 

or jar ; cover it down and let it stand for four hours near the fire ; 

strain it. Liquorice root, sugar, lemon or orange juice may be 

added to the seeds, to give a flavour to the tea. It will not keep. 

Apple Tea. 
Slice apples and pour boiling water over them ; let this stand 
for two or three hours well covered, and then sweeten. The 
juiciness of the apples[must regulate the quantity of water. Pears 
may iJso be used. 

Lemon Water. 
Put two or three slices of Lemon, thinly pared, into a teapot, 
with a bit of peel and some sugar ; pour in a pint of boiling water 
and cover it close for two hours. 

FfiEEZINO MlXTUBE. 

Muriate of Ammonia (Sal ammoniac) 5 parts. 

Nitrate of Potash (Saltpetre) 5 „ 

VY aier ••• •*• .*• *•• ••• ...xo „ 

This mixture is exceedingly useful, to cool water or wine during 

hot weather, when intense cold is required for a patient's head or 

to stop bleeding. 



