// L' ^ ^^i^rVi^'^^ - 



Digitized by tine Internet Arcliive 

in 2007 witli funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



littp://www.arcliive.org/details/drcliasesrecipe'soOOcliasiala 




CT^^'^^.^.^o^.f^ 



DR. CHASE'S RECIPES; 

OR, 

INFORMATION FOR EYERTBOM : 

AN INVAIiUABLB COLLECTION OF 

ABOUT EIGHT HUNDRED 

PRACTICAL RECIPES, 



Hcrchants, Grocers, Saloon-Keepers, Physicians, DrugKlsts, Tanners, 

Shoe Makers, Harness Makers, Painters, Jewelers, BlacksmHbs, 

Tinners, Gunsmiths, Farriers, Barbers, Bakers, Dyers, 

Benovaters, Farmers, and Families Generally, 

TO THicH oiri beg:? addkd 

A. Bational Treatment of Pleurisy, Inflammation of the Ijunss. 
and other Inflammatory Diseases, and also for General 

Female Debility and Irregularities: 
111 arranged la tkelr Appropriate Departments. 



BY A. 'W. CHASE, M. U. 



STEREOTYPED 



CATIKFULLT REVISED, ILLUSTRATED, AND MUCH ENLARGED, 
WITH REJLARKS AND FULL EXPLANATIONS. 



We Learn to Live, by lilving to lie&n*. 



Xia^ OLOTH, 91.25; I>A.I»E1II OOVEIRS, S1.00; 

MOKOCCO GILT, «2.00. 
THE QSRMAN IN CLOTH ONLT, $1.25. 



ANN ARBOE, MICHIGAN 

18 7 0. 

CI v4 



Entered according to Act of Congress, In the Year 1867, by 

A. W. CHASE, M. D., 

In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for 
the Eastern District of Michigan. 

Fifty -Second Edition— Three Hundred and NiNBTY-Fiva 
Thousand— English and German. 



PREFACE 

VO THl TSNTH K D I T I O IT . 



Iir bringing a penuanent work, or one that is designed so to 
oe, before the public, it is expected of the Author that he gl.ve 
hia reasons for such publication. If the reasons are founded in 
truth, the people consequently seeing its necessity, will appreci- 
ate its advantages, and encourage the Author by. quick and ex- 
tensive purchases, they alone being the judges. Then: 

First. — Much of the information contained in " Dr. Chase'a 
Receipes; or Information for Everybody," has never before 
been published, and is adapted to every day use. 

Second. — The Author, after having carried on the Drug and 
Grocery business for a number of years, read Medicine, after 
being thirty-eight years of age, and graduated as a Physician 
lo qualify himself for the work he was undertaking ; for, having 
oeen familiar with some of the Recipes, adapted to these 
oranches of trade, more than twenty years, he began in " Pifly- 
aix," seven years ago, to publish them in a Pamphlet of only 
t few pages, since which time he has been traveling between 
New York and Iowa, selling the work and Prescribing, so that 
ap to tnis time, " Sixty-three," over ttoenty-three thousand cop- 
>es have r>«>en sold. His travels have brought him in contact 
with ail tlasses of Professional and Business men. Mechanics. 
ParriPrs. and Farmers, tnus enabling him to obtain from them, 
many additional items, always having had his note book with 
hum. and whenever a prescription has been given before him, 
5r a remark made, that would have a practical bearing, it has 
oeen noted, and at the first opportunity tested, then if good, 
written out in plain language expressly for the next edition of 



f] PRKPAOB. 

this work. In this way this mass of information has been col< 
lected, and ought to take away an objection which some persons 
Oave raised : " It is too much for one man to know ! " because 
tncy did not realize that the work had been made up from other» 
as well as the Auther'a octudL every day experience, instead of 
from untried books. Yet from the nature of some of the Recipes, 
jue has occasionally found its way into some of the earlier edi- 
tions, which have needed revision, or to be entirely dropped. 
This, with a desire to add to the vanous Departments, at every 
edition, has kept us from having it Stereotyped until the present, 
tenth edition. 

But now, all being what we desire ; and the size of the work 
being such that we cannot add to it without increasing the price 

we have it Stereotyped, and send it out, just what we ex- 
pect, and are willing it should remain- 

Third. — Many of the Recipe books published are very large, 
containing much useless matter, only to increase the number, 
consequently costing too much — this one contains only about 
eight hundred recipes, upon only about four hundred difFerenI 
subjects, afl of which are valuable in daily, practical life, and at 
a very reasonable price — many of them are without arrange- 
ment — this one is arranged in regular Departments, all of a class 
being together — many of them are without remark, or explana- 
tion — this one is fully explained, and accompanied with remarks 
upon the various subjects introduced by the Recipes under con- 
sideration — those remarks, explanations, and suggestions accom- 
panying the Recipes, are a special feature of this work, making 
It worth double its cost as a reading book, even if there was not 
a prescription in it 

FotTRTH. — The remarks and explanations are in la/rge type, 
whilst the preservptive and deseripti'oe parts are in a little smaller 
type, which enables any one to see at a glance just what they 
wish to find. 

Fifth. — It is a well known fact that many unprincipled per 
ftona go around " gulling" the people by selling single Recipe* 
for exorbitant prices. The Author found a thing, calling him- 



^ racTAOM. ffl 

■elf a man, in Battle Creek, Mich., selling a Washing-Fluid 
Recipe for two dollars, which he obtained of some ; but if he 
could not obtain that, he would take twe sliiHings, or any other 
sum between them. A merchant gave a horse for the " White 
Cement" Recipe. The late Mr. Andrews, of Detroit, Mich., 
ghve three hundred dollars for a Recipe, now improved and in 
(his work, to cure a bone spavin upon a race mare of his. He 
removed the spavin with it and won the anticipated wager with 
aer. The Author has, himself, paid from twenty-five to fifty, 
and seventy-five cents, and one to two, three five, and eight dol- 
lars for single items, or Recipes, hoping thereby to improve hia 
work ; but often finding that he had much better ideas already 
embodied therein. 

The amount paid for information in this work, and for testing 
by experiment, together with traveling expenses, and cuts used 
in illustrating it, have reached over two thousand dollars, and 
all for the purpose of making a book worthy to be found in 
"Everybody's" library, and to prevent such extortions in the 
price of Recipes. Yet any single Recipe in the work which a 
person may wish to use, will often be found worth many times 
the price of the book, perhaps the lives of those you dearly love, 
by having at hand the necessary information enabling you to 
immediately apply the means within your reach, instead of giv- 
ing time for disease to strengthen, whilst sending, perhaps miles, 
for a physician. Much pain and suffering, also, will often be 
saved or avoided, besides the satisfaction of knowing how many 
thmgs are made which you are constantly using, and also being 
able to avoid many things which you certainly would aixnd, if 
fou knew how they were made. 

Sixth. — It will be observed that we have introduced a number 
of Recipes upon some of the subjects ; this adapts the work to 
all circumstances and places ; the reason for it is thia ; we havt 
become acquainted with them in our practice and joumeyinga, 
and know that when the articles cannot be obtained for one 
vay, they may be for some other way ; as also that one pre- 
scnption is better for some than for other persons ; therefore, 
ire give the variety that all may be benefitted as much aa possi* 



tiii PRKPAOl 

ble. For instance, there are twenty different preecriptidM for 
different diseases, and conditions of the eye; tiiere are also s 
dozen different liniments, &c., &c. ; yet the Author feels well 
assured that the most perfect satisfaction will be experieneed in 
them as a whole. And although it could not be expected that 
special advantages of particular Recipes could be pointed out 
to auy great extent, yet the Author must be indu]<^ed in reff*rring 
to a few, in the various Departments. All, or nearly all, Mer 
chant* and Grocers, as also most Families, will be more or leas 
beuefited by the directions for making or preserving butter, pre- 
serving eggs, or fi-uit, computing interest, making vinegar, and 
keeping cider palatable, &c. In ague sections of coi>ntry, none 
should be without the information on this subject; and in fact, 
Uiere is not a medical subject introduced but what will be found 
more or less valuable to every one; even Physicians will be 
more than compensated in its perusal; whilst Consumptive, 
Dyspeptic, Rheumatic, and Fever patients ought, by all means, 
to avail themselves of the advantages here pointed out. The 
treatment in Female Debility, and the. observations on the 
Changes in female life are such that every one of them over 
thirteen or fourteen years of age should not be without this 
work. The directions in Pleurisy and other Inflammatory dis- 
eases cannot fail to benefit every family into whose bands the 
book shall fall. 

The Good Samaritan Liniment, we do not believe, has its 
equal in the world, for common uses, whilst there are a number 
of other liniments equally well adapted to particular cases. 
And we would not undertake to raise a family of children witb 
out our Whooping Cough Syrup and Croup Remedies, knowing 
their value as we do, if it cost a hundred dollars to obtain them 
Tanners and Shoemakers, Painters and Blacksmiths, Tinners 
ind Gunsmiths, Cabinet Makers, Barbers and Baker? will find 
is their various Departments more than enough, in single reci- 
pes, to compensate them for the expense of the work ; and Far- 
riers and Farmers who deal in horses and cattle, will o*len find 
that Department to save a hundred times its cost in sin^lo cases 

of disease. 
A gentleman recently called at my house for one of the hooka. 



P&KTAOJI. IX 

caying : " I have come ten miles out of my way to get it, for 1 
staid over uight with a farmer, who had one, and had been ben- 
efitted more than $20, in curing a horse by its directions." A 
gentleman near this city says he had paid out dollars after dol- 
lars to c'ure a horse of spavin, without benefit, as directed by 
oilier books, of recipes ; but a few shillings, as directed by thia^ 
cured the horse. Another gentleman recently said to me: 
■* Your Eye Water is worth more than $20." 1 could fill pages 
of similar statements which have come to my knowledge since 
I commenced the publication of this work, but must be content 
by asking all to look over our References, which have been vol- 
untarily accumulating during the seven years in which the 
work has been in growing up to its present size and perfection ; 
and the position in society, of most of the persons making these 
statements is such, many of which are entire strangers to the 
Author and to each other, that any person can see that no pos- 
sible complicity could exist between us, even if we desired it 

Families will find in the Baking, Cooking, Coloring and Mis- 
cellaneous Departments, all they will need, without the aid ot 
any other " Cook Book ; " and the Washing-Fluid, which we 
have used at every washing except two for nearly eight years, 
is worth to every family of eight or ten persons, ten times the 
cost of the book, yearly, saving both in labor and wear of 
clothes. 

Seventh.— Many of the articles can be gathered from garden, 
field or woods, and the others will always be lound with Drug- 
gists, and most of the preparations will cost only trum mu-hnlf 
to as low as ane-sivteenth as much as to purchase them already 
made ; and the only certainty, now-a-days, of having a grjod 
aiticle, is to make it yourselC 

Fenallt.— There is one or two things fact about this book ; 
It is the biggest humbug of the day; or it is the best work of 
the kind, published in the English language. If a careful peru- 
sal does not satisfy ali that it is not tJu first, but that it is the last, 
then will the Author be willing to acknowledge that Testing, 
Experimenting, Labor, Travel and Study, to be of no account in 
qualifying a man for such a work, especially when that work 
h«ia been the long cherished object of his life, for a lasting bene- 



C FEKPAOI 

fit to hi* fsllow creaturea, S8\ing them from extortion, In buying 
single i€cipefl, and alio giviiig them a reliable work, for every 
emergency, more th in fof tus own pecuniary benefit. Were it 
not so, I should have Rept iue work smaller as heretofore, for 
the eighth edition of two hundred and twenty- four pages when 
handsomely bound sold for One Dollar, but in this edi- 

tion you get a Dollar's worth of book, even if common reading 
Oiatter, besides the most reliable practical information, by which 
you will cften save, not only doUars and cents, but relieve suffer- 
ing and prolong life. It is, in fact, a perfect mass of the mosi 
valuable methods of accomplishing the things spoken of, an 
Encyclopedia upon the various branches of Science and Art, 
treated of in the work, which no family can afford to do with- 
out ; indeed, young and old, " Everybody's" book. And the 
" Taxes" nor " Times" should be, for a moment, argued against 
the purchase of so valuable a work, especially when we assure you 
thai the book is sold only by Traveling Agents, that aU may have a 
chance to purchase ; for if left at the Book Stores, or by Advertise- 
ment only, ru)t One in Mfty would ever see it. 

Some persons object to buying a book of Recipes, as they are 
constantly receiving so many in the newspapers of the day, 
but if they had all that this book contains, scattered through a 
number of years of accumulated papers, it would be worth 
ma^ than the price of this work to have them gathered together, 
carefully arranged in their appropriate departments, with an 
alphabetical index, and handsomely bound ; besides tl»e advan- 
tage of tbtir having pap«ed under the Author's carefully prun- 
ing and grafting hand. 

" To uproot error and do good should be the first and highest 
aspiration of every intelligent being. He who labors to pro- 
mote tb. physical perfection of his race — he who strives to make 
mankind intelligent, healthy, ana happy — cannot fail to have 
reflected un his own soul the benign smiles of those whom he 
has been the instrument of benefitting." The Author has re- 
cieved too many expressionn of gratitude, thankfulness, ana 
favor, in regard to the value of " Dr. Chase's Recipes; or Infor 
mation for Everybody," to doubt in the least, the truth of tn( 
foregoing quotaiion: and trusts ^at the following quotatinq 



PREFAOB. B 

may not be set down to " EgotiBrn" or " Bigotry," wheo he givot 
't as the governing reason for the continued and permanent pub* 
Uoation of the work ■. 

" I live to Z4am their story, who Btiffered fcr mj uke ; 

To emulate theii' glory, ao'l follow in Ibdr wak« ; 
BardR, paoiotft, maityTH, sagfiH, and noble of aU a^B, 

W hoHe deeds erow3 HiKtory's pag«s, and Time'a greet volamfl mak* 

" I live for those who love me, for those who know me trne. 

For the heav«D that smiles above me, and awaitii my spirit too ; 
For the cAuse that lacks aasistajice, for tlie wrong that needs reautBDO*. 

Tor the future in the distance, and the ffood that I can do." 

May these reasons speedily become the governing principloa 
tnfoughout the world, especially with all those who have taken 
upon themselves the vows of our "Holy Religion;" knowing 
that it. is to those only who begin to love God, and right actions, 
her«, with whom the glories of Heaven shall ever begin. Were 
they thus heeded, we should no longer need coroboratiug testi- 
mony to our statements. Now, however, we are obliged to 
array every point before the people, as a Minor, that they may 
judge uTider standingly, even in matters of thomost vital impor- 
Ance to themselves ; consequently we must Ite excused lor thia 
engthy Preface, Explanatory Index, and extended I?eferencea 
following it. Yet, that there are some who will let the work go 
by them as one of the " Humbugs of the day," notwithstanding 
all that has or might be said, we have no doubt ; but we beg to 
refer such to the statement amongst our References, of the Rer. 
C. P. Nash, of Muskegon, Mich., who, although he allowed it 
thus to pass him, could not rest satisfied when he saw the reliat- 
bility of the work purchased by his lesn incredulous neighbors ; 
then if you will, let it go by ; but it is hoped that all purchaser* 
may have suflScient confidence in the work not to allow it to 
lay idle ; for, that the designed and greatest possible amount <rf 
good shall be accomplished by it, it is only necessary that it 
should be generally/ ir^jpodueed, and daHjf uted, is the positive 
knowledge of the 

AUTHOR. 



I isr D K X . 



MBRCQANTS' AKD UROCERS' OEPARTMSNT. 

PAQB. 

Uaking I'owders, Without Dnigs, 80 

Iliittcr ; to Treserve any Length of Time — Butter Mak- 
intj; Directions for Dairymen — Butter; Storing; the 

Illinois Prairie Farmer's Method, 40-41 

Burning Fluid, 44 

Counterfeit Money ; Seven Rules for Detecting, 46-4? 

Eggs ; to Preserve for Winter Use — English Patented 
Slelhod— J. W. Cooper, M. D.'s Method of Keeping 

and Shipping Game Eggs, 43-44 

Fruits; to Keep Without Loss of Color or Flavor 41 

Uoney; Domestic — Cuba Honey — Excellent Honey — 

Premium Uooot? 49-50 

Interest; Compulmg by one Multiplication and one Di- 
vision, at any Kate Per Cent — Method of Computing 

by a Single Multiplication, 45-46 

Inks; Black Copying or Writing Fluid — Common Black 
—Red ; Tlie Very Best— Blue— Indellible— Ink Pow- 
der; Black, 47-48 

iViUes, Without Fruit 50 

Mouth Glue, for Tom Paper, Notes, &c., 80 

Vinegar, in Three Weeks — in Barrels without Trouble 
— E'rom Sugar, Drippings from Sugar Hogsheads, &e., 
—From Acetic Acid and Molasses — From Apple Ci- 
der — la Three Days, Without Drugs — Quick Process 
by Standing upon" Shavings, 39-40 

SALOON DEPARTMENT. 

Apple Cider; to Keep Sweet with but Trifling Expense 
— To Prepare for Medicme — Artificial Cider, or Cider 
WiUiout Apples ; to ilake in Kegs or to Bottle, or i»? 
Barrels, for Long Keeping, with Directions About 

Shipping, ti\ 54 

Action of Sugar or Candy on the Teeth, , 59 

Ale ; Home Brewed, How it ia Made, 63 



OTBUL ZIB 

PA.<)B. 

Hears ; Root — Bpruce, or Aromatic b'eer — Lemon— din- 
ger — Philadeipliia— Patent Gas— Corn ; without Yeast 

— Strong Beer ; English, improved, 61-68 

Ooloruig for Wines, 74 

Cream Soda ; using Cow's Cream for Fountains — Cream 

Soda ; with a Fountain, 67 

Cream Nectar ; Imperial, 64 

Ginger Pop, 65 

Ice Cream — Ice Cream ; very Cheap, 66-67 

Lawton Blackberry ; its Cultivation, 72 

Lemonade ; to carry in the Pocket, 60 

Moliisscs Candy and Pop Com Balls, 58-6C 

Oyster Soup, 68 

Persian Sherbet, , 60 

Porter, AJe or Wine ; to prevent Flatness in parts of 

bottles, for the Invalid, 64 

Stomach Bitters ; equal to Hostetters, for one-fourth ita 

cost, and Schiedam Schnapps Exposed, ' 74 

Bham Champagne ; a purely Temperance Drink, 65 

Spanish Gingerette, '. . 65 

Boda Water ; without & Machine for Bottling, 67 

Syrups ; to make the various Colors — Syrups Artificial ; 
vailbus Flavors, as Raspberry, Strawberry, Pine- 
Apple, Sarsaparilla, »&c. — Lemon Syrup ; Common— 
Lemon Syrup ; to save the loss of Lemons — Soda 

Syrup ; with or without Fountains, 64-67 

Tripe ; to prepare and Pickle, 68 

Wines ; Currant, Cherry, Elderberry, and other Berry 
Wines — Rhubarb, or English Patent Wine — Tomato 
Wine — Wine from white Currants — Ginger Wine, — 
Blackberry Wine — Port Wine — Cider Wine — Grape 

Wine, 87-74 

feasts ; flop Yeast— Bakers' Yeast— Jug Y'eas^^; with- 
out Yeast to start with — Y'east Cake, 65-66 

MEDICAL DEPAHTMBNT. 

Alcohol in Medicine, preferable to Brandj, Rum or Gin, 
of the present day, connected with Spiritual Facts, . 76-7» 

Ague Medicines ; Dr. Krider's Ague Pills — Ague Bitters 
— Ague Powder — Ague Mixture, without Quinine — 
Ague Cured for a Penny — Ague Anodyne — Tonio 
Wine Tincture, a positive cure for Ague without Qui- 
nine, 77-80 

Asthma ; Remedies, 188 

Alterative Syrup, or Blood Purifier— Alterative ; very 
strong — Alterative Cathartic, powder— Alterative for 
Diseases of the Skin — Alterative, Tonic and Cathar- 
tic, Bitters, 14»-148 



tl? (NDEX. 

PAGB. 

Artlljcial Skin, for Buriw, Br alst'B, Abraswcs, Ac, Woof 

agjiinst Water, 191 

Adhesive P'asier, or Salve, few Deep Wounds, Cuts, «Scc., 

in place >! rftilches, 103 

A Cure foi Drunkeimcsa HO 

Anotlyiie Tills, 149 

Breail-Tea, used in taking Emetics, 108 

liateniau's Pectoral Drops, 134 

Balsams; Dr. II. W. Ilutchin's Indian Ilealine, formerly, 
Peckham's Couj^li lialsam — Dr. Mitchers Balsam ; for 

Cuts, IJruises, &c., lOO-lfil 

Uleedings; Internal and External Remedies — Styptic 
li&lsam, for Internal Hemorrhages — Styptic Tincture, 

External Application, Ib3-lj)4 

liroiichocele, (Enlarged Neck), to Cure, l'J4 

Bums; Salve for Burns, Frost-Bitcs, Cracked Nipples, 
»!cc. ; very successful, — Dr. Downer's Salve for Burns, 
— Poultice for Burns and Frozen Elesli, — Salve from 
the Garden and Kitciien, for Burns, ei^ti preparations, 110-11) 

i'ainphor and o:her Medicated Waters, 808 

Cancers, to cure, Methods of Dr. Eandolfi (Snrccon 
General to the Neapi>litan Army,) — Dr. II. G. dud- 
kins'— L. S. lIodgkin.s'— Kev. C. 'C. Cuylers'— Great ' 
English Hemedy — American, Red Oak Bark, Salvo 
fn)m the Aiihes — I'rof. K. S. Newtou's — Prof. Calkins". t 
«tec., altogether fourteen prescriptions, ^Yith Cautions 
against the use of the Knife, showing when the Treat- 
ment should commence, «fcc., 9*J -lOU 

Costiveness, Common, or verj- Obstinate Cases 101-103 

Chronic Gout, to cure,— Gout Tincture, 103-103 

Cathartic Syrup, \yi 

Catarrh Snulf, yfl 

Camphor-Ice, for Chapped Hands and Lips, 109 

Chilblains, to cure, published by order of the Govern 

ment of Wirtemlnirg, 1 13 

Cod Liver Oil, made Palatable and more Digestible, . . . 119 

Consumptive Syrup, very successful, with directions 
about Travel — Remarks on tho Use of Fat Meats aS 
Preventive of Consimiplion, Ac, — Chlorate of Potash 
in Consumption, new renaedy — Itational Treatment 
for Consumption, claimed to be the best in the world 119 126 

Composition Powder. Thompson's, , 140 

Croup, Simple but Effectual Remedy— Dutch Remedy — 

Croup Oiutmeut, 149-150 

Cough Lozenges, two preparations — Pulmonic Wafers 
for 'Joughs— Coughs from Recent Colds, remedy- 
Cough jyii,\ture for Recent Colds— Cough Candy- 
Cough Syrup— Cough Tincture— Cough Pill, ni>-l'J^ 

Cbolen Tincluro — Isthmus Cholera Tincture — Cholera- 



(NDXX. Xf 

PAQE. 

PrevcHtive— Cholera Cordial — German Cliolera, Tinc- 
ture — Egyptian Cure for Cholera— ^IncUa Prescription 

for Cholera — Nature's Cholera Medicine, 178-180 

VJholic, and Cholera-Morbus ; Treatment 180-181 

Carminatives, for Children, 182 

Dyspepsia; Treatment from Personal Experience, witb 
Cautions about Eating between Meals, especially 
against Constant Nibbling; also Father Piukney's 

Experience of Ninety Years, 87-98 

Dyspeptic's Biscuit and Coffee ; very valuable 292 

Dyspeptic Tea, 140 

Delirium Tremens ; to obtain Sleep — Stimulating Ano- 
dyne for Delirium 107 

Disinfectant for Rooms, Sleat or Fish — Coffee as a Dis- 
infectant for Sick-rooms 108 

Deafness, if recent, to Cure, if not, to Relieve,. , 113 

Diuretic Pill— Drops, Decoction and Tincture. . 143-144 

Dropsy Syrup and Pills ; very effectual, 144-145 

Diarrhea Cordial — Injection for Chronic Diarrhea — Di- 
arrhea Tincturo, Drops and Syrup ; also for Flux and • 
Chronic Diarrhea in Adults and Children, when ac- 
companied with Canker, 17&-178 

Dentriflce, which removes Tartareous adhesions from 
the Teeth, arrests decay, and induces a healthy action 

of the Gums, 188 

niscutients, to Scatter Swellings — Common Swellings 

to Reduce, 191-193 

Diptheria ; Dr. Phiuney's Treatment, of Boston, 183 

Kiilarged Tonsils, to Cure, 104 

Kclectic Emetic, 105 

iSye Water — often acknowledged to be worth mote than 
Twenty Dollars — India Prescription for Sore Eyes — 
Dr. Cook's Eye Water — Preparation for excessive 
Inflammation ot the Eves— Sailor's Eye Preparation 
-Father Pinkney's P'^paration for very bad Sore 
Eyes — Indian Eye Wuver — Poultices for the Eve — 
Films, to remove from the Eye — Eye Salve — Sore 
Eyes, to remove the Granulations — Altogether, 
twenty-two Prescriptions, for diflerent conditions oi 

the Diseased Eye, 151-159 

Essences; very Strong, 189 

Febrifuge Wine, (to drive away Fever), '^ 

Fevers ; General improved Treatment, for Bilious, Ty- j 
phoid and Scarlet Fevers, Congestive Chills, «&c. ; >; 
also valuable in arresting Diarrhea, Summer Com- 
plaint, Cholera-Infantum and all forms of Fever ia 
Children — Lemonade, nourishing for Fever Patients — 
Prof. Hufeland'8 Drink for Fever Patients, or for ex- 
cessive Thirst 80-87 



tVi INDEX. 

PAOft 

Felon, if recent, to euro in Six Hours— Poultices for 
Felons— Felon Ointment and Salve, i rt 

Fever-Sore Plaster or Black Salve; has saved two differ- 
ent Hilnds that two different physicians, in each case, 
said must be cut off-.Red Salve for Fever-Sores— Indian 
Cure for Fever Sores— Kitridge's Salve f©r Fever- 
Sores— Fever-Sore Poultices, Oiutments, and Salve 
for Fever-Sores, Abscesses, Broken rjrcasts, &c., eleven 
preparations, 159 161 

Female Debility and Irregularities, Explanations and 
Treatment — Female Laxative Pills — Female Laxative 
and Anodyne Pills — I'ills for Painful Menstruation — 
Injection lor Female Complaints- 
Powder for excessive 
Flooding, also full explanat'ons of the natural Turn 
with young females, in such plain and delicate lan- 
guage, that every Girl over 
ought to have the book, 208-2H 

Uterine Hemorrhages, Prof. Piatt's Treatment, twenty 
years without a Failure, 83 

Grmvel and Kidney Complaints ; Imperial Drop, 109 

Godirey's Cordial, 134 

Hodman's Anodyne or Golden Tincture, 133 

Hydrophobia, to prevent — Saxon Remedy — Grecian 
Remedy — Quaker Remedy ; fifty years successful,.. 151-153 

Inflammation of the Throat, (Laryngitis) — Gargle for 
Sore Throat — Sore Throat Liniment, with a {synopsis, 
(general view), of Dr. Fitch's Treatment of Throat 
Dispsses, 92-Vo 

Inflammation of the Lungs— Inflammation of the Pleu- 
ra, (pleurisy), with such full explanations 0f general 
Inflammations that no dilticulty will be experienced 
in Treating the Disease in any of its forms, 195-208 

[nflammation of the Liver — Eclectic Liver Pill — Liver 
Pili, Improved — Liver Drops, for obstinate cases — 
Ointment for Ulcerated Liver, Ague Cake, &c. ; very 
pucccssful, 146- 1 47 

[n-Growiug Toe Nail ; to cure 174 

Indian Cathartic Pills, 184 

Itching Feet from Frost Bites ; to cure, Ill 

' Irritating Plaster, extensively used by Eclectics, 145 

Jaundice; Dr. Peabody's Cure, in its worst forms — 
Drink for common cases of Jaundice, 180--13J 

Liniments; Good Samaritan, Imjjroved — Liniment for 
Old Sores— Dr. Raymond's Liniment— German Rheu 
matic Liquid or Lmiment— Cook's Electro-Magnetic 
Liniment — Liniment for Spinal Aflections — Great 
Loudon Liniment — Gum Liniment — Patent Liniment 
— Lobelia and Cayenne Liniment — Liniment, said to 
b« St. John's &c,. 114-118 



IKDBX. X7ii 

PAQE. 

ubudauum, 183 

Night Sweats ; to relieve, 80 

Ointment for Old Sores — Mead's Salt-Rheum Ointment ; 
has proved very successful — Judkin's — Sisson's 
Green Ointment — exceedingly good — Dr. Kittredge's 
'celebrated Ointment for '-Pimpled Face," "Prairie 
Itch," &c., — Dr. Gibson's Ointment, for very bad Skin 
Dfceaees — Itch Ointment — Magnetic Ointment, said to 
be T rask'9, with Stramonium Ointment and Tincture 

—Toad Ointment, &c., 125-I3v 

Oil of Spike— Britsh Oil— Balm of Gilead Oil— Har- 
lem Oil or Welch Msdacamentimi ; also Black Oils, 

valuable for Persons or Animals .'. 174-175 

Opodeldoc ; liquid, 176 

Paralysis ; if recent, to cure, if not to relieve — Para- 
lytic Liniment, 103 

Piles ; very successful Remedy — Pile Cerate — Simple 
Cure lor Piles, internal and external Remeaies ; eleven 

preparations, 131-13& 

Paregoric, 133 

Pills, to Sugar Coat— Nervous Pihs, 148-149 

Pain-Killer ; said to be Perry Davis' 194 

Poisons ; Antidote, 195 

Uheumalic Liniment — Inflammatory Rheiunatism; to 
cure — Dr. Kittredge's Remedy for Rheumatism and 
Stiffened Joints, from Rheumatism — French Remedy 
for Chronic Rheumatism — Bitters for Chronic Rheu- 
matism ; very successful ; Green Bay Indian's Rem- 
edv for Rheumatism — New Remedy, &c. ; iioetoe prep- 
arations, 135-138 

Sick-Headache; to cure — Periodical Headache — Head- 
ache Drops — Tincture of Blood-root for certain Head- 
aches — Charcoal for certain Headaches, 104-107 

Sweating Drops — Sweating with burning Alcohol, " 108 

iStimulant, in Low Fevers and after Uterine Hemorrha- 
ges 141 

iSore Throat ; from recent cold. Remedy, 1 71 

Snake Biles ; Effectual Remedies, for Persons and Ani- 
mals, 153-154 

Small Pox ; to prevent Pitting the Face, 191 

Salves; Green -.Mountain Salve; exceedingly valuable 
— Couklin's Celebrated Salve — Al;oBalm of Gilead 

Salve and Pelcg White's Old Salve 163-163 

Seidiitz Powder; cathartic, 182 

Teeth ; Extracting with little or no Pain — Tooth Pow- 
der ; Gxcellent — Teeth ; to remove Blackness — Tooth 
Cordial ; Magnetic — Homeopathic Tooth Cordial — 
Neuralgia ; internal Remedy— King of Oils, for Neu- 
ralgia and Rheiunalidm '. 184-18?) 



XVIU INDKX 

PAGE. 

Tinctures ; w maKe, 189 

Tetter, Ring-Worm and Barber's Itch ; to cure, liK) 

Typiius Fever ; to prevent Infection, 107 

Vermifuge Lozenges — Worm Tea — Worm Cake ; Eng- 
liBli Remedy — Tape Worm; Simple but effectual 

Remedies — Vermifuge Oil ; Prof. Freeman's, 164-170 

Vegetable Physic, 154 

Wliooping-Cough Syrup — Daily's Whoopuig-Cough 
Syrup — Soreness or Hoarseness from Coughs ; Rem- 
edy, 173-1V4 

Warts and Corns ; to cure in Ten Minutes — Dr. Ilari- 
mau's innocent and sure cure for Warts, Corns, and 

Chilblains ; Jive prescriptions, 113- 114 

Wens ; to cure, 192 

tanner's shoe and harness maker's department. 

Best Color for Boot, Shoo and Harness Edge, and Ink 
which cannot Freeze — Cheap Color, for Boot, Shoe 

and Harness Edge 215 

Black Varnish for 'the Edge, 217 

Deer Skius; Tanning and BufUng for Gloves; three 

methods, 218 

French Patent Leather — French Finish for Leather. . 221 

Grain-Side Blacking, for Ten Cents a Barrel, S21 

Tanning Sheep Skins; applicable for Mittens, Door- 
Mats, R'Jbes, &c., — Tanning Fur and other Skins; 
Fifty Dollar Recipe — Tanning Deer and Woodchuck 
Skins, for Whips, Strings, &c., — Process of Tanning 
Calf, Kip and Harness, in from Six to Thirty Days- 
Canadian Process also, with Mr. Rose's modification, 

of Madison, 217-221 

Sizing for Treeing-out Boots and Shoes, 215 

Varnish for Harness ; the Best in Use, 217 

Watcr-Poof Oil Paste Blacking, 218 

Water-Proof Paste without Rubber — Neats-foot Oil 
Paste 216 

painter's department. 

Drying Oil ; equal to the Patent Dryers, 2*.sji 

Door-Plates ; to make, 227-228 

Etching upon Glass, for Signs, or Side Lights ; easy 

Method, 229-230 

Frosting Glass, 22.1 

Fluoric Acid ; to make for Etching Purposes, 231 

Glass Grinding, for Signs, Sbades, &^.., 236 

Japan Dryers ; of the Best Quality, 223 

New Tin Roofs; Valuable Process lor Painting, 2"25 

Fire-Proof Paint for Roofs, &c.— Water-Proof Oil- 
Rubber Paint 221 



INDEX. six 

pAas. 

oil; to prepare for Carriage, Wagon and Floor Painting, 239 

Oil Paint, to Reduce with Water, 2^ 

Oriental or Crystal Painting, -vdth directions to make 
various Shades, or Compound Colors — Fancy Green, 

&c., 22G-227 

Paint Skins ; to save and Reduce to Oil, 224 

Porcelain Finish ; very Hard and White, for Parlors,. . . 231/ 

Painter's Sanding Apparatus, 224 

Sketching Paper ; to prepare, 227 

painters' economy in making colors. 

Chrome Green— Chrome Yellow — Green ; durable and 
Cheap — Paris Green; two processes — Prusian Blue; 
two processes — Pea Brown — Rose Pink, 232-238 

blacksmiths' department. 

Butcher Knives; spring Temper and beautiful Edge,. 238 

Cast Iron; to case harden — Cast Iron; the hardest; to 

Soften for Drilling, 240 

Files and Rasps, (old) ; to Re-cut by a chemical process, 233 

Iron ; to Prevent welding, 289 

Iron or Wood; to Bronze, Representing Bell-metal, . . 241 
Mill Picks ; to Temper; three Preparations — Mill Picks 
and Saw Gummers; to Temper — Mill Pick Temper- 
ing, as done by Church, of Ann Arbor, 236 237 

Poor Iron ; to Improve, 236 

Rust on Iron or Sleel ; to Prevent 234 

Silver Plating, for Carriage Work, 239 

Trap Springs ; to Temper, 238 

Truss Springs; Directions for Blacksmith's to make; 

superior to the Patent Trusses, 241 

Varnishes ; Transparent ; for Tools, Plows, «&c. — Var- 
nish ; Transparent Blue, for Steel Plows — Varnish, 
Seek-No-Further, for Iron or Sleel — Varnish ; Black, 

having a polish, for Iron, 234-235 

Pf eiding Cast-Steel, without Borax, 235 

W elding a small piece of Iron upon a large one, with 

only a Light Heat, 240 

Wrif*'^ig upon Iron or Steel, Silver or Gold; not to cost 

ihfc Tenth of a Cent per letter, 236 

Wrought-Iron ; to Case-harden, 249 

tinner's department. 

Black Varnish ; for Coal Buckets, 243 

Box Metal ; to make for Machinery. , 244 

Britarmia; to use Old, instead of Block Tm, in Solder,. 245 

Copper ; to Tin for Stew Dishes or other purposes, 244 

Iron ; %o Tin for Soldering or other purposes, 244 



tX iNUGX. 

PAQ£. 

Iron, Iron Wire or Steel ; Vo Copper the Surface, 244 

Japans for Tin— Black, Blue, (ireen. Orange, Pink, 

Red and Yellow, 242 

Lacquer for Tin— Gold color. Transparent, Blue, Green, 

Purple and Rose Color— also, Lacquer for Brass,. . .. 24^243 

Liquid Glue, for Labelling ujjon Tin, 245 

Liquid, to clean Brass, Door Knobs, &c., 245 

Oil Cans — Size of sheet, for from One to One Hundred 

Gallons, 246 

Silver Powder, for Copper or worn Plated Goods 245 

Solder for Brazing Iron, Led, Tin and Britannia, 244-245 

Tiunmg Flux ; Improved, 245 

Tin; to Pearl, for Spittoons, Water Coolers, &c, 246 

GUNSMITHINQ DEPARTMENT. 

Broken Saws ; to Mend Permanently, 247 

Browning Gun Barrels; two processes — Browning for 

Twist Barrels, 240-247 

Case-Hardcuing, 247 

Tinning ; superior to the Old Process, 248 

v''arnish and I'olish, for Stocks ; German, 24o 

jewelers' department. 

Galvanizing Without a Battery, 248 

Galvanizing >Vith a Shilling Battery ; also. Directions to 

ilake the Battery, 249-250 

Jc«?elry ; Cleaning, and Polishing 25C 

farriers' depart .ment. 

BiokcD Limbs; Treatment, instead of inhumanly Shoot- 
ing the Llorse, 2G0-36i 

Bog-Spavin and Wind-Gall Ointment; also good for 

Curbs, Splints, &c., 256 

Bone Spavin; French Paste; Three Iluudrded Dollar 
Recipe — Bone Spavin ; Norwegian cure — Spavm Lin- 
iment ; four preparations, 254 

Bots ; Sure Remedy, 251 

Cholic Cure ; for Horses or Persons ; has not failed in 

more than Forty Trials, 256 

Condition Powder; exceedingly valuable; said to be St. 
John's — Cathartic Conilitiou I'owdcr; designed for 

Worn-down Animals, 258- ''/iC 

DcGray or Sloan's Horse Ointment, 259 

Distemper, to Distinguish and Cure, 205 

Eye Water, for Horses and CatlJe, 2G3 

Founder, Remedy, 266 

Grease-Heel and common Scratches, to Cure, 263-263 

IJeaves, Great Relief for; Six Methods fur Dilferent 
tk)nditiouB ^ 2C4-246 



fNDEX. 

PAOS. 
floof-Ail iu Sbeep, Biue Remedy, 266 

ijoosL'uess or Scouriug in ilorses or Cattle, Kemedy in 

Use Over tk-veuly Years 252-258 

Linimeui for SlilJ Necks, from Poll-evils— English J>ta 
ble Liuimeul, Very Strong— Liniment for One Shil- 
ling a Quart, Valuable iu Strains, Old Swellings, &c. ; 

and Nerve and Bone Liniment, 26' 

Poll-Evil and Fistula, Positive Cure — Poll-Evil and Fis- 
tula, Norwegian Cure ; Eight Methods, all of which 
have Cured Many Cases — Poll-Evils, to Scatter, &c. ; 

Potash, to xMake, Used in Poll-EvUs, 250-258 

Physic, Ball and Liquid ; for Horses and Cattle, 206 

ftmg-bone and Spavin Cure, often acknowledged worth 
the Value of the Borse— O. B. Bangs' Method for Re- 
cent Cases — llawson's Ring-bone and Spavin Cure, 
has Cmed Ring-bones as Thick as the Ai"m — Indian 

Method, also, very Simple 251-254 

Splint and Spavin Liniment, 255 

Sweeny Liniment, 256 

Scours and Pin-Worms, to Cure, in Horses or Cattle,. . 259 

Saddle and Harness Galls, Bruises, Abrasions, &c., 

Remedy, 263 

Sores from Chafing of the Bits, to Cure 263-204 

Shoeing Horses for Winter Travel, 205 

Supporting Apparatus in Lameness of Animals, Ex- 
plained, 261 

Taming Wild and Vicious Horses — Also, Showing Who 

Can 1)0 It 267-269 

Wound Balsam, for Horses or Persons, 262 

cabinet-makers' department. 

Finishing Furniture with Only One Coat of Varnish, 
Not Using Glue, Paste, or Shellac; very Valuable,.. 270 

M Polish ; for Wood or Leather ; Black, Red and Blue, 270 

I'olish ; for New Furniture — Polish ; for reviving Old 
Furniture ; equal to the " Brother Jonathan,' and 
Polish for removing Stains, Spots and Mildew from 
Furniture, 269-270 

Stains; Mahogany on Walnut as Natural as Nature — 
Rose Wood Slain; Very bright Shade, used cold — 
Rose- Wood Stain; light Shade, used hot — Rose-pmu, 
Slain and Varnish; also used to imitate Rose- Wood — 

Black Walnut Stain— Cherry Slain, 271-273 

farnish ; Transparent; for Wood — Patent Varnish ; for 
Wood or Canvass — Asphaltum Varnish ; black, 273-2V4 

barbers' and toilet department. 

Ualm of a Thousand Flowers, 280 

Colgnelmperial— Cologne for Family Use; Cheaper,.. 27^878 



INDKX 

PAflB 

Faded and Worn Garments ; to Renew the Color, 278 

liair Dye ; Reliable, 274 

Kair Restorative; equal to Wood's, for a Trifling cost; 
four preparations; cheap and Reliable — Hairlnvigo- 
rators, tiioo preparations; will stop Haii ^om Falling 27&-276 

Hair Oils ; New York Barber's Star Uair Oil— Macassar 
or Rose — Fragrant Home-made — Poiiade or Ox- 
Marrow, !a7t 

Shampoonin^ Mixture, for Five Cents per Quart 27? 

P';uovatin» Mixture; for Grease Spots, Shampooning 
and Killing Bed Bugs — Renovating Clothes ; Gentle- 
men's \7ear, 277-279 

Razor Strop Paste ; very Nice, 280 

bakers' and cooking department. 

Breads ; Yankee Brown Bread — Graham Bread — Lon- 
don Baker's superior Loaf Bread— New French Meth- 
od of making Bread — Old Bachelor's Bread, Biscuit 
and Pie-Crust — Baking Powders, for Biscuit, without 
Shortening, 290-i«W} 

fakes ; Federal — Rough and Ready — Sponge Cake, with 
Sour milk — Sponge Cake, with Sweet Milk — Berwick 
Sponge Cake, without Milk — Surprise CaKe — Sugar 
Cake — Ginger Cake — Tea or Cup Cake — Cake with- 
out Eggs or Slilk — Pork Cake, without Bntier, MUft 
or Eggs — Cider Cake — Ginger Snaps- -J ell Cake and, 
Roll Jell Cake- -Cake Table, showing how to make 
Fifteen different kinds, as Pound, Genuine Whig, 
Shrewsburry, Training, Nut Cake, Short, Cymbals. 
Burk, and Jumbles, — Ginger Bread, — Wonders,—' 
Cookies — York — Biscuit — Ck)mmon and Loaf Cakes- 
Molasses Cake — Marble Cake — Silver Cake, and Gold 
Cake, fiuisin^ with Bride and Fruit Cakes — Frosting 
for Cakes, &c. — Excellent Crackers — Sugar Crack- 
ers—Naples Biscuit — Buckwheat Short-cake, ^vith- 
out Shortening, most excellent ; and Y'east Cake, . . . 281- 2^ 

Pies; Lemon Pie, extra nice — Pie-Crust Glaze, which 
prevents the juices from soaking into the crust— Ap>- 
ple-custard Pie, the nicest ever eaten— Paste for Tarts, 293-206 

Puddings; Biscuit Pudding, without Re-baking— Old 
English Christmas Plum Pudding— Indian Pudding ; 
to Bake — Indian Pudding, to Boil — Quick Indian 
Pudding — Flour Pudding, to boil— Potatoe Pud- 
ding — Green Corn Pudding — Steamed Pudding — 
Spreading and Dip Sauces for Puddings, 295-29? 

DOMESTIC DISHES. 

A.pples; to Bake Steamboat Style, better than pre- 
8»Te»--Apple Fritters— Apples to Fry; cxira oice,, 298-^&8 



INDJBX. xzi3 

fAGS 
ipple Merange; an Excellent Substitute for Pie, and 

Pudding, 299 

Back- Woods Presrves, ♦ 299 

Bread ; to Fry, better tkan Toast, 299 

French Honey, 300 

Fruit Jams, Jellies, and Preserves,. . 300 

Fruit Extracts, 301 

Groen Corn Omelet, 298 

Mock Oysters 300 

MafHns, 30(, 

Toast ; German Style, 299 

Rose, and Cinnamon Waters, 302 

MISCELLANEOUS DEPARTMENT. 

A-dvice to Young Men, and Others out of Employment, 836-341 

Bed-Room Carpets, for One Shilling per Yard, 383 

Currants ; to dry with Sugar, 315 

Currant Catchup,. 314 

Coffee ; more Healthy and better Flavored, for one- 
fourth the Expense of Common, 834 

Cements ; Cements for China, &c., which Stands Fire 
and Water — Cement, Cheap and Valuable — German 
and Russian Cement — Cement, Water Proof, for Cloth 
and Belting — Cement or Furniture Glue, for House 
Use — White Cement and Cement to prevent Leaks 
about Chimneys, Roofs, &c. — Scrap Book Paste or 

Cement, always ready for Use, 317-319 

'Janniug Fruits ; Peaches, Pears, Berries, Plums, Cher- 
ries, Strawberries and Tomatoes — Cement for Can- 
ning Fruits, 313-814 

Eggs ; to Increase the Laying — Eggs ; to Fry extra nice, 44 

Fence Posts ; to Prevent Rotting, 808 

Fire Kindlers, 329 

Fish ; Art ot Catching, 321 

Gravel Houses ; to make, proportions of Lime, Sand 

and Gravel, :,. 324 

Glues; Liquid Glue; Imitatiors, equal to Spalding's 

Liquid Glue, and Water Proof Glue, 328 

Grammar Ln Rhyme, for the Little Folks, 341 

rflusical Curiosity ; Scotch Genius in Teaching, 342 

Meats; to Preserve — Beef; to Pickle for Long Keeping- 
Michigan Farmer's method — Beef; to Pickle for Wm 
ler or Present Use, and for Drying, very nice — Mutton 
Hams; to Pickle for Drying — Curing, Smoking and 
Keeping Hams— T. E. Hamilton's, Maryland Premium 
method— Pork; to have Fresh from Winter Killing, for 
Summer Frying — Salt Pork for Prying; Nearly Equal 
to Fresh — Fresh Meat ; to Keep a Week or Two, in 
Bummer — Smoked Meat ; to Preserve for Years or for 
Sea Voyages — Rural New Yorker's Method, and the 
New England Farmer " Saving his Bw^on," 309-811 



XXIT INDEX 

PAQh 

Magic Paper; used to transfer flgureem Embroidery 

or Impressions of Leaves for Herbariums, Bit 

Peroussion Matches ; best quality, 829-331 

Preserves ; Tomato and Watermelon Preserves, 315 

Plums and other Fruits ; to prevent insects from Sting- 
ing 333 

Pickling; Apples, Peaches, Plums, and Cucumbers; 

Very Nice Indeed— Peaches ; to Peel, 334-3J6 

Rat Destroyers ; Rat Exterminator — Death For the Old 
Sly Rat — Rats; to Drive Away Alive — Rat Poison 

from Sir Humphrey Davy, 820-821 

Straw Bonnets; to Color a Beauliflil Slate— Straw and 

Chip Hats ; to Varnish Black, 322 

Stucco Plastering; for Brick and Gravel Houses, 822-324 

Steam Boilers ; to Prevent Explosion, with the Reason 
why they Explode — Steam Boilers ; to prevent Lime 

Deposits, tiDo Methods, 832-333 

Sand Stone ; to Prevent Scaling From Frosts 335 

Sealing Wax ; to Make, Red, Black, and Blue, 336 

Starch Polish 329 

Soaps ; Soft Soap, for Half the Expense and One-Fourth 
the Trouble of the Old Way — German Erasive Soap — 
Hard Soap — Transparent Soap— One Hundred Pounds 
of Good Soap for One-Dollar and ThirtyCenta— Chemi- 
cal Soft Soaj>--Soap Without Heat — Windsor or Toi- 
let Soap — Variegated Toilet Soap, &c., 304-306 

Tallow Candles for Summer Use — Tallow ; to Cleanse 

and Bleach, 307 

Tomato Catchup ; the Best I Ever Used, 314 

Tomato; Cultivation for Early and Late — Tomatoes as 

Food, and Tomatoes as Food for Cattle, 60-76 

Tin- Ware ; to Mend by the Heat of a Candle, 816 

Tire; to keep on the Wheel Until Worn Out tJlfl 

Washing-Fluid; Saving Half the Washboard Labor — 
Liquid Bluing ; used in Washing, Never Specks the 

Clothes, 802-303 

Water Filter ; Home-Made, 8i« 

Weeds ; to Destroy in Walks, 311 

WHITEWASH AND CHEAP PAIKT8. 

Brilliant Stucco Whitewash ; Will Last on Brick or 
Stone, Twenty to Thirty Years — Whitewash ; Very 
Nice ^or Rooms — Paint; to Make Without Lead or 
Oil — White Paint; a New Way of Manufacturing — 
Black and Green Paint ; Durable and Cheap for Out- . 
Door Work— Milk Paint; for Bams, Any Color, 325-328 

COLORING DfiPARTMENT. 

Colon? on Woolen Goods ; Chrome Black ; Superior to 
any in Use — -Black on Wool, for Mixture*— Steel Mix, 



INDSX. IXV 

PAOM. 

Dark— Snuff Brown— Madder Red— Oreen on Wool 
cr Silk, with Oak Bark— Green, with Fustic— Blue; 
Quick P*rocc88 — Stocking Yam or Wool; to Color 
Between a Blue and Purple — Scarlet with Cochineal, 
for Yun or Cloth— Pink— Orange— Lac Red— Pur- 
ple— Silver Drab ; Light Shade— Slate ; on Woolen or 
Cotton— Extract of Indigo or Chemic,"u8ed in Color- 
ing; to Make — Wool; to Cleanse — Dark Colors; to 
Extract and Insert Lierht, 848-84fl 

Jurable Colors on Cotton; Black— Sky Blue— Lime 
Water and Strong Lime Water ; to Make for Coloring 
Purposes — Blue on Cotton or Linen, with Logwood — 
Green— Yellow — Orange — Red — Muriate ef Tin, 
Liquor ; to Make, 847-84B 

Dolors for Silk; Green; Very Handsome, with Oak 
Bark — Green or Yellow, on Silk or Woolen ; in Five 
to Fifteen Minutes Only— Mulberry— Black — Spots; 
to Remove and Prevent Spotting when Coloring Black 
on Silk or Woolen— Light Chemic Blue — PAUT)le — 
Yellow — Orange— Crimson — Cinnamon or Brown — 
on Cotton and Silk, by a New Process ; very Beautiful, S49-35) 

INTEXSST DEPARTMENT. 

Interest Tables, Showing the Interest at a Glance : At 
Six, Seven, Eight, Nine, and Ten Per Cent, on all 
Sums from One Dollar to One Thousand Dollars, 
From One Day to One Year, and for Any Number of 
Years ; Also, Legal Literest of all the Different Stales, 
and the Legal Conseguences of Taking or Agreeing 
upon Usurous Rates m the Different States 852-8W 

GL08SARIAL, EXPLANATORY, DEPARTMENT. 

This Department embraces Tables of Rules for Admin- 
istering Medicines, Having Reference to Age and Sex 
— Explanations of MedicaJ Abbreviations, Apotheca- 
ries Weights and Measures — also, an Explanation of 
About Seven Hundred Technical Terms found in Med- 
ical Works, Many of which are Constantly Occurring 
m the Common Writings and Literature of the Day, 
which are not explained in English Dictionaries,. . . . 361-884 

INDEX TO ILLU8TRATI0NB. 

Apparatus for Supporting Lame Animals, 261 

Frontispiece, 2 

Form of Lettering for Door Plates, 22fi 

Machine for 8i)lilling Matches, 831 

Painter's Sanding Apparatus, 224 

Salves and Lozenges ; Apparatus for Making, 164 

Vinegar Q«nerator...... •«, 86 



REFE^vElSrOES. 



ExtraoU ft'om Certificates and Diplomas In the Dootor't 
Possession, Connected with his Study of IMedioine. 

" I hereby certify that A. W. Chask haa prosecuted the Study 
of Medicine under my instruction during the term of two years 
aod sustains a good moral character. 

(Signed,) O. B. REED, Physician. 

BeUe River, Mich/' 

" UinVBH8ITY OF MiCHIQAN, ) 

College of Medicine and Surgery. ) 
This Certifies that A. W. Chase has attended a full Course of 
Jjectures in this institution. 

(Siened,) SILAS H. DOUGLASS, Dean. 

University of Michigan, Ann Arbor." 

Eclectic Medical Ihstitutb, Cin., O. 
Bjiow All Men by these Presents, That A. W. Chase has 
sustained an honorable examination before the Faculty of this 
Institute, on all the departments of Medical Science, «&a * * 
Wherefbre we, the Trustees and Faculty, * * » by the 
authority vested in us by the Legislature of'^the State of Omo,do 
confer on him the Degree of Doctob of Medicine. 

WM. B. PIERCE, President 
W. T. HURLBERT, Vice Pres't 
Jab. G. Hskbhall, Secretary. 

Signed aJso by seven Professors, embracing the 
[asAL.J names of Bcudder, Bickley, Freeman, Newton, Bal- 
dridge, Jones, and Saunders. 



ANN ARBOR REFERENCES. 

f- The following statements are given by my neigTibora, to whom 
I had sent the eighth edition- of my " Recipes," asking their 
'Opinions ofltAvalue for the people, most of whom had previous- 
'ly purchased earlier editions of the work, and several of them 
'nsed many of the Recipes ; and surely their position in'scKsety 
must place their statements above all suspicion of complieity vrith 
,the author in palming off a worthless book ; but are designed to 
henefii tht people by increasing the spread of genuine praetioai 
[information : 

Hon. Alphkub Fblch, one of our first lawyers, formerly 
% Senator in Congress, and also ex-Gtovemor of Michigan, says : — 
■PleaseTMXjept my thanks for the copy of your *' Recipes," which 
you were so good as to send me. The book seems to me to 
sont&in rmieh uduable yiraetical informatum, and I have no doattf 
prill be extensively usefuL 



RB»aXN0X8. UVU 

A. WiNOSEiiL, Profeesor of Geology, Zoology and Botany, In 
the University of Michigan, and also State Geologist, says : — I 
have examined a large number of Recipes in Dr. Chase's pub- 
lished collsction, and from my knowledge, either experimental 
or theoretical, of many of them, and my confidence in Dr 
Chase's carefulness, judgment, and conscientiousness in the 
selection of such only as ure proved useful, after full trial, I feel 
no hesitation in saying that they may all be received with the 
utmost confidence in their pracGcal value, except in those cases, 
where the Doctor has himself qualified his recommendations. 

Jamks C. Watson, formerly Professor of Astronomy, and now 
Professor of Physics, In the University of Michigan, author of a 
" Treatise on Comets," also of " Other Worlds, or the Wonders of 
the Telescope, " says : — I have examined your book of practical 
Recipes, and do not hesitate to say that so»far as my observation 
and experience enable me to judge, it is a work which should 
find its way into every family in the land. The information 
Vhich it contains could only have been collected by the most 
careful and long continued research, and is such as is required 
in every day life. I can heartily recommend your work to the 
patronage of the public. 

Rev. L. EJ, Chapen, Pastor of the Presbyterian Church, says: 
Allow me to express to you my gratification in the perusal of 
your book. I do not regard myself as qualified to speak in re- 

fard to the whole book, for you enter into Departments in which 
have no special knowledge, but where I understand the 
subject I find many things of much practical value for every 
practical man and house-keeper: and judging of those parts 
which I do not, by those which 1 do understand, I think that 
f ou have furnished a book that most families can afford to have 
at any reasonable price. 

Rev. Geo. Smith, Presiding Elder of the M. K Church, Ann 
Aj-bor, says : — I take pleasure in saying that so far as I have 
examined, I have reason to believe that your Recipes are genu- 
ine, and not intended as a catoh-penny, but think any person 
Tiurchasing it will get the worth of their money. 

Rev. Geo. Taylor, Pastopof Ann Arbor and Dixboro M. K 
Church, writes as follows: — As per your request, I have carefiil- 
!y examined your book of Recipes, recently issued, and take 
pleasure in adding my testimony to the many you have already 
received, that I regard it as the best compilation of Recipes 
have ever seen. Several of these Recipes we have used in out 
family for years, and count each of them worth the cost of your 
book. 

Elder Samuel Coknelius, Pastor of the Baptist Church, 
writes: — I have looked over your book of "Infopnation for 
Everybody," and as you ask my judgment of it, I say tlmt it 
gives evidence of much industry and care on the part of the 
oompUer, and containB iuformaUoa whjrii must b« valuable to 



ZXdil. ' REFKRKXCES. 

all classes of business men, In toMTi and country, and especially to 
all families who want to cook well, and Lave pleasant, healthy 
drinks, syrups and jellies; who wish to keep health when they enjoy 
it, or seek for it in an economical way. I thank you for the cojiy 
you sent to me, and hope you may make a great many familiet 
healthy and happy. 

Rev. F. a. Blades, of the M. E. Church, and Pastor in charge^ 
for two years, of Ann Arbor Station, says : Dr. Chase — Dear Sir— 
Your, work of Recipes, I have examined — and used some of them 
for a year past — I do not hesitate to pronounce it a valuable work — 
contaming information for the Million. I hope yon will succeed in 
circulating it very generally — it is worthy a place in every bouse. 

This gentleman speaks in the highest terms of the " iJyspeptlc's 
JiBcuit and Coffee," as of other recipes used. 

Eqkrbach & Co., Druggists, of Ann Arbor, say: — We have been 
filling prescriptions from " Dr. Chase's Recipes," for three or four 
years, and freely say that we do not know of any dissatvffaciion 
arising from want of correctness ; but on the other hand, we know 
tiiat they give general satisfaction. 

Rev. S p. Hildreth, of Dresden, O., a former neighbor, inclos- 
ing a recent letter, says: I have carefully examined your book, and 
regard it as containing a large amount of Information which will be 
valuable in every household. 

Rev. William C. Wat, of the M. E. Church, Plymouth, Mich., 
Bays; — I have cured myself of Laryngitis, (inflammation of the 
throat,) brought on by long continued and constant public speaking, 
by the use of Dr. Chase's black oil, and also know a fever sore to 
have been cured upon a lady, by the use of the same article. 



OPINIONS OF THE ANN ARBOR PRESS. 

A Nfw book. — Dr. Chase, of this city, has laid on our table 
a new edition of his work entitled " Dr. Chase's Recipes, or Infor- 
mation for Everybody," for making all sorts of things, money not 
excepted. We would not, however, convey the idea that the Doctor 
tells you how to make spurious coin, or counterfeit bills, but by 
practicing upon the maxims laid down in this work, money-making 
is the certain result. Buy a book, and 

adopt the recipes in jour households, on your farms, and in your 
business, and success is sure to follow. The work is neatly printed, 
elegantly bound, and undoubtedly embodies more useful informa- 
tion than any work of the kind now before the public. 

Students, or others, wishing to engage in selling a saleable work, 
will do well to send for circulars describing the book, with terms to 
agents, &c., for it is indeed a work which " Everybody " ought to 
hove. — Michigtm 8((Ue Netoa, Arm Arbor. 



%MiMMMsa»a. xzii 

Db. a. W. CHABB.of this city, has pl&ced on our table a copy 
of his " Recipes, or Information for BSverybody." Beginning 
with a small pamphlet, the Doctor has swelled his work to a 
bound volume of about 400 pages; an evidence tha* ais labors 
are appreciated. The volume nvmishes many re^^ipes and much 
information of real practical value. — Michigan ^rgu«, Ann Arbor. 

Dr. CHASE'S RECIPES.— The ninth edition of Dr. Chase's 
Recipes has been recently published, revised, illustrated and en- 
larged, — comprising a very large collection of practical informa- 
tion for business men, mechanics, artists, farmers, and for fami- 
lies generally. The recipes are accompanied with explanations 
and comments which greatly increase the value of the wort. It 
ii a handsomely bound volume, ->-'^ v'^ •. — Ann Arbor JoumaL 



Dk. chase, of Ann Arbor, has favored us with a copy of his 
book of recipes, which has, in an unprecedented short time, 
reached the ninth edition, showing its popularity wherever it has 
been ini,roiluced. It contains " information for everybody," for 
making all sorts of things. It is a valuable work for every on<*— 
many single recipes being worth much more than the cost of the 
book. Rev. Mr. Frazer, the gentlemanly agent for the work, is 
now in the city, and will call upon our citizens eiving them an 
oppprtunitv to secure a copy. The work is neatly pnnted, ele- 
gantly bound, and undoubtedly embodies more usefhl informa- 
tion than any work of the kind now before the public. 

a better investment cannot be made by 
any one. — Grand Rapids Bogle. 

Dr. chase, of Ann Arbor, has favored us with a copy of 
Recipes which he has published, * * * * who claims that 
they have been made up from his own and others' every day ex- 
penence. There are certainly a great many useful recipes in 
this work that might be found to richly repay its cost to any 
family. — Michigan Farmery Detroit. 

The following wholesale dealers of Detroit, and others with 
whom I have dealt for years, say : — We have been acquainted 
with Dr. A W. Chase for several years in the Drug and Groceiy 
business, and we are well satisfied that he would not do a busi- 
ness which he did not know was all right. His information in 
♦iie furiD of recipes can be depended upon. 

GEO. BEARD, Dealer in Oysters and Fruit, Detroit. 

WM PHELPS & CO., Confectioners, Detroit, Michigaa 

JOHN J. BAOI.EY, Tobacconist, Detroit, Michigan. 

SAMUEL J. REDFIELD, M. D., Wyandotte, .Michigan. 

RICHARD MEAD, Merchant, Bark Shanty, Michigan. 

JOHN HOBERTSON, Captain of Steamer Clifton. 

H. FISH, Captain of Steamer Sam, Ward. 

C. A. BLOOD, former ptirtner, BeII« River, Miclug&n. 



THE COURIER 

Steam Printing - House, 

Was first built in 1864, (22x70 feet, four stories, including the basement, which 
is used for the Press-room), mainly for the purpose of enabline the proprietor 
to meet the increasing demand for "Dr. Chase's Rkcipks," at which time 
one-half of one story gave ample room for one Department of the business. 
But in 1865 he purchased the Peninsular Courier, and began to do 

JOE PRIKTWa AHD BOOK^BlKDWa. 

Adopting the motto— good work for the least possible price — it soon 
became necessary to occupy the whole of one story for each branch or Depart- 
ment; and ultimately finding our rooms to small for the work demanded at our 
hands, in the summer of 1S6S, we made an addition of 40x70 feet, finish- 
ing each story in one room, the Bindery, Compositors, Press-room and Office 
being each 39x68 feet, putting in a 22 horse Boiler and Engine, one of Hoe's 
largest "Jobbers," upon which a sheet 39x56 inches can be printed — no other 
Press in tne State equal to it in size, — also another large Adams' Book Press, 
upon which sixteen octavo pages can be worked, (while nearly all other 
Western printmg establishments can only work eight pages, our press-work 
costing only one-half as much as theirs), with much other macninery and 
furnishing employment for OVER FORTY HANDS, and 

SEVEN POWER PRESSES 

making it the 

MOST COMPLETE PRINTING-HOUSE IN THE WEST 

Clergymen, Lawyers and others who may desire the publication of Books, 
Pamphlets, Briefs, Sermons, Reports, Minutes, By-Laws, &c., &c., will find it 

f-eatly to their advantage to correspond with us before contracting elsewhere, 
stimates cheerfully and promptly furnished. 

In sending for Estimates, please give the size of page, size of type, num- 
ber of pages, number of copies and style of binding. 

Since purchasing the Peninsular Courier, we Have changed its name to 

THE PENINSULAR COURIER AND FAMILY VISITANT 

BESIDES GREATLY ENLARGING IT, AND IT IS NOW ACKNOWLEDGED 
TO BE THE 

URGEST, CHEAPEST, AND BEST FAMILY NEWSPAPER IN THE STATE 

In proof of this assertion we have only to state that at the time of its pur- 
chase the circulation was less than 300, now OVER SIXTEEN HUNDRED 
coT^'\e.s, (beitiff more than double that of any other fafer in the County,) and 
our subscription list is constantly increasing. — Devoted to News, Politics, Tem- 
perance, Morality and Religion — Soundly Republican, alive, in all its De- 
partmen**, 

te:i?,]ms : 

$2 00 a year in advance. Dr. Chase's Recipes, by mail post paid, |i 2%. 

The Tudd Family, ^i 00; Voyage Around the World, %i 00. 

AtWreeo all orders to . .^ • „ 

R. A.. BICAXj, Proprietor. 



DR. CHASE'S RECIPES 



MERCHANTS' AND GROCERS' DEPARTMENT. 

VlNEGrAR. — Merchants and Grocers who retail vinegar 
ahould always have it made under their own eye, if possible, 
from the fact that so many unprincipled men enter into its 
Manufacture, as it affords such a large profit. And I would 
fiirther remark, that there is hardly any article of domestic 
use, upon which the mass of the people have as little correct 
information as upon the subject of making vinegar. I shall 
be brief in my remarks upon the different points of the 
subject, yet I shall give all the knowledge necessary, tha 
families, or those wishing to manufacture, may be able tc 
have the best article, and at moderate figures. Remembci 
this fact — that vinegar must have air as well as warmth, 
and especially is this necessary if you desire to make it in 
a short space of time. And if at any time it seems to be 
" Dying, " as is usually called, add molasses, sugar, alcohol, 
or cider — whichever article you are making from, or prefer 
— for vinegar is an industrious fellow ; ho will either work 
or die, and when he begins to die you may know he haa 
worked up all the material in his shop, and wants 'more. 
Remember this in all vinegars, and they will never die, if 
Uiey have air. First, then, upon a small scale, for family 
ise. 

To Make in Threk Weeks. — Molasses 1 qt. ; yeast 1 pt. ; 
warm rain water 3 gals. Put ali into a jug or keg, and tie a 
piece of gauze over tlie bung to keep out flies and let in air. In 
hot weather set it in the sun ; in cold weather set it by the stove 
or in the chimney corner, and in three weeks you will have good 
vinegar. 

When this is getting low, pour out some for use, and fill 

2 — DR. chase's EECIPES. 



84 DR. chase's recipes. 

np the jug in the same proportion as at first, and you will 
never have trouble for want of good vinegar. 

2. A con-espondent of tlie Dollar Newspaper says: "Th« 
cheapest mode of making good vinegar is, to mix 5 qts. of warm 
rain water with 2 qts. of Orleans molasses, and 4 qts of yeast. 
In a few weeks you will have the best vinegar you ever tasted." 
He might well say, " The best vinegar you ever tasted," for it 
would have double the necessary strength, and three or four 
times the strength of much that is sold ; yet this strength "would 
cost less to make, than to buy by the quart. 

3. In Barrels Without Trouble. — Merchants and 
Groeers, who retail vinegar, can always keep a good supply 
on hand by having about two or three barrels out of which 
to sell, by filling the first one they sell out, before quit* 
empty, with 

Molasses 1 gal.; soft water 11 gals. 

Keeping this proportion to fill the barrel ; the vinegar 
and mother which is left in the barrel makes it work much 
quicker than if put into empty barrels ; so pass around on 
■ho next barrel as it is nearly out, having three barrels, and 
anless you sell more than a baxrel a week, you need nevei 
oe out of vinegar. Some recommend to use alum, creani 
of tirtar. <tc., in vinegar, but / say, never. It is always ad- 
visable to have a hole in the top of the barrel, if standing 
on end; if on the side, the bung out and a gauze over it, 
to keep out flies aiul let air in. 

4. From Sugar, Drippings from Sugar Hogsheads, 
Ac. — Dealers who retail mola.sses, often have from five to 
fifty pounds of sugar left in the barrel after selling out the 
molasses. Each pound of this, or other sugar, dissolved in 
two gallons of soft water, makes that amount of good vine- 
gar by either of the above plans. Rinsings of molasses 
barrels or drippings of sugar hogsheads brought to this de- 
gree of sweetness, is as good for vinegar as any other mate- 
rial. Small beer, lager beer, ale, &c., which have become 
sour, make good vinesrar bv reducing with water; small 
beer will need but little water ; lager beer will need as 
much water as beer, or a little more ; and ale, twice aa muclx 
water aa ale ; they will all need yeast, a quart or two t» 
each barrel, unless put into barrels which have some vin- 



merchants' and grocers department. 84 

egar in them, and it will do no harm, but quicken the pro- 
cess in all cases if there is vinegar in the barrel. 

5. Fkom Acetic Acid akd Molasses. — Acetic acid 4 lbs; 
molasses 1 gal. ; put them into a 40 gallon cask, aud fill it up 
with rain water ; shake it up and let stand from one to three 
weeks, and the result is good vinegar. 

If this does not make it as sharp as you like, add a little 
more molaases. But some will object to this because an 
acid is used: let me say to such, that acetic acid is concen- 
trated vinegar. Take 1 lb. or 1 pt. or any other quantity 
of this acid, and add seven times as much soft water, and 
you have just as p;ood vinegar as can be made from cider, 
»nd that xnstanta/Keousli/. 

6. Fro»i Apple Cider. — As there are those who will 
not have any bi'.t cider vinegar, and have plenty of cider 
out of wVich to make it, I will give you the best plan of 
proceeding for manufacturers : 

Have a loom where it will not freeze ; place on end as many 
barrels or large casks, witho ut heads, to hold as much as you 
wish to m«ke T £ill these one-third full of soft water, and the 
oilier two i,hirds with apple cider ; yeast 2 q is. to each cask. 

In a fe»< weeks you will have good vinegar j without the 
yeast it wuuld be all the season in becoming good. Then 
fill up into barrels for sale, leaving a little, say one-eighth, 
in the opt^a barrels, and fill them up with water and cider 
as before, and it will become good much quicker than be- 
fore. If bhe water is objected to, use the cider without it, 
but pure cider makes vinegar too strong for any one to use, 
and requires much longer time in making. These barrels 
may havo boards over them to keep out flies and dirt. If 
the reuiier can give it his attention, by having a barrel of 
good cider vinegar to sell out of, he can always koep it up, 
if, when ue draws out two or three gallons of the vinegar, 
he will go to his cider, kept for the purpose, and replaee 
the vinegar with the cider ; or if making with molasses and 
water or any other article, fill up with the same ; but take 
notice, if you forget or neglect, and draw your vinegar 
nearly all out before you fill in, it does not keep to the point 
of sharpness desired, unless you have two or three barrel* 
as mentioned in recipe No. 8 



96 



DR. CHASE'S BECIPKS. 



Persons who hav« old sour cider on hand can in this way, 
or as mentioned in No. 6, have good vinegar from it imme- 
diately, as it comes around into vinegar much quicker tha3 
new cider. 

7. In Three Days avithout Drugs, — The philosophy 
of making vinegar quickly, is this : The means that will 
expose the largest surface of the vinegar fluid, of a certain 
temperature, to the air, will convert it into vinegar in the 
shortest time ; and as there is no way by which so great a sur- 
face can be exposed as by the shavings process, and at the 
same time control the temperature, that plan has been adopt- 
ed, as explained in the wood cut accompanying, and in th* 
descriptive note : 



M&!n corer, or loose beards, 

Vinegar V\\M Space, 

FalKe top. with tubes ; and cords hanging 
through it, , 

Outer portion of the tub, which should 
be fllK-il witli the sliavings to within an 
au iucb or two of the false top 

BolMtote'. in air.., 

The square projections on the side of the 
Generator represent hoops. 



Vinegar Gekkratob. 
i^EBCRiiTivE Note. — Tdosc wishing to manufacture, to sell 
at wholesale , will prepare a tub, or square box, and arrange it 
aa shown in the accompanying cut, knowing that the taller and 
larger the tub, the quicker will the vinegar become good. The 
air holes are bored through every other, or every third stave» 
around the whole tub. These holes are to be about one foot oi 
eighteen inches from the bottom ; they must also be bored slant- 
ing down as you bore inward, othe-nise the vinegar would run 
out and waste as it drips down the side of the tub. These tub* 
ought to be from ten to twenty feet high, according to the quan- 
lity you desire to run off daily. Now take beech ma'ile oi 




MEEGHANTS' AND QROCERS' DEPARTMENT. 37 

basswood boards — and they are valuable in the order named- 
cut them off about eighteen inches in length, and plane thick, 
heavy shavings from the edges ; and if they do not roll up and 
Btay in nice rolls, you must roll and tie them up with small cord , 
or clean corn cobs will do, but they will only last one season, 
whilst the shavings will last several years. If cobs are used, 
they must be put in lij^yers, each layer crossing the other, to pre 
vent their packing too close. Then wet or soak them thorough 
ly in water, and till up llie tub or tubs with them, unti". you ait 
within two or three feet of the top, at which place you will nai 
a stout hoop around, upon the inside of the tub, which shall 
support the false top, which has been made and fitted for that 
purpose, through which false top you will have bored good sized 
gimlet holes about every two inches all over its whole surface, 
through each of which holes a small cord, about four or five 
inches in length, is to be drawn, having a knot tied upon its 
upper end to keep it in its place, and to prevent the vinegar- 
fluid from working out too fast. The size of these holes, and 
the size of the cord, must be such as to allow the amount ol 
vinegar being made to run tlu'ough eveiy twelve hours, or it 
time can be given to put it up so often, it may run through every 
six hours. You will cork all around between the false top and 
th« tub witli cotton, which causes the vinegar-fluid, hereafter to 
be described, to pass through the gimlet holes and drip from the 
en is of the fuuiII cords, evenly, all over the shavings, other- 
wise, i*" the false top was not exactly level, the vinegar-fluid 
n'ould all run off at tiie lowest point, down the side of the tub, 
apd be a very long time in becoming good, whilst if it drips 
slowly and all over and down tlirough the shavings, it soon 
comes around into good viiicgai The holes bored for that pur 
p( se, i^ warm weather, oxidizes or ncctifies the vinegar-fluid, by 
aford'ug the <?co essential points of quicKiy making good vinegar, 
that i'', air and heat, without the expense of a fire to warm the 
fluid, or room in which the vinegar is made. Now bore five 
oiie-iMch holes through the false top, one of them through the 
center, and the others two-thirds of the distance each way, 
lowRrds the outside of the tub, into which holes drive as many 
pins, having a three-quarter inch hole bored through them 
lengthwise, which makes them tubes ; cut the tubes off' an inch 
br'ow the top of the tub, so as to be out of the way of the main 
c( ver or loose boards which will be thrown over the top of the 
It b for the purpose of keeping out flies and dirt, and also to 
keep the heated ai; in, which comes up through the tubes ; thia 
ai** becomes heated by the chemical action of the air upon the 
i^inegar fluid as it drips along down through the shavings in the 
Uit), becoming so hot that it would be uncomfortable to hold the 
hand therein. The space between the false top and the covei 
is railed the vinegar fluid space; and it must be sufficiently tight 
til tiic joints of the tub, or box, to hold the fluid when put in. 
Now taJie a barrel of good vinegar and pour it into the top oi 



»8 DK. CUASK's recipes. 

the tub, and let it drip through the gimlet holes, from* the cords, 
over the shavings, two or three times, each time putting in one 
gallon of highwiues, or two or three gallons of cider, as the 
case may be, wliich sours the shavings and greatly helps the 
starting process of the vinegar-making. Without the addi- 
tion to the strength of the vinegar as it runs through, it 
would part with nearly all of its own strength or acidity, to the 
shavings and thus lose its own life. If you have not, nor can- 
not obtain, vinegar, to start with, you must begin with weak 
vinegar-fluid, and keep adding to it every time tliroufih until 
it becomes very sour ; then you will consider yourself ready 
to begin to make vinegar in double quick time, by using any 
of the fluids mentioned in the foregoing vinegar recipes. But 
manufacturers generally use highwiues thirty to forty per 
cent above proof, one gallon ; water, eleven gallons ; but 
persons living a great distance from market will find a cheaper 
plan by using ninety eight per cent alchol, one gallon ; water 
fifteen gallons ; either of which make good vmegar, using 
yeast ot course, with either article, from one pint to one quart 
to each barrel being made. Another tub or vat must be se'u 
in the ground, imder the generator, or in a cellar, as the case 
may be, to hold as much vinegar as the space between the 
false and real top will contain, or as much as j'ou wish to 
make at one time; from Avhich it is to be carried up in 
buckets, (or a wooden pump having a leather sucker is 
quicker and easier to raise it,) to the top of the generator 
until it becomes good vinegar, which it will do in the time 
mentioned at the head of this recipe, if passed through the gen- 
erator by the faucet every twelve hours which it must be ; and 
if the tubs are fifteen or twenty feet high, it will only need 
passing through once, or twice at most. 

Some Avill have no vinegar but that made from apple 
cider; then put in one-third water, and it makes vinegar as 
strong as anybody ought to use ; but if they will have it at 
full strength, make it so, only it requires a little longer time 
to make. 

If those who have cider which has been standing a long 
time, and does not become vinegar, will reduce it one third 
with water, and pass it through this machine, they will grind 
out first rate vinegar in one or two days' time. Sour beer or 
ale, the artificial cider, also, if it gets sour, make good vinegar 
when mixed with some other vinegar in making. Small beer, 
also drippings from sugar hogsheads in place of molasses, &c. 
Nothing having sugar or alcohol in it should be thrown away, 
as all will make good vinegar, which is as good as ca?h, and 
ought to be saved— if for no other purpose than to have the 
more to give the worthy poor. 



MKRCHANTS* AND OROCEES' Dfi^AETMENT. 89 

J* 'vaa at first thought to be absolutely necessary to mafco 
the "inegar-fluid of about seventy-five degrees of heat, and 
also to keep the room of the same temperature ; but it has 
been found that by keeping the heat in the tub by the false top 
and the loose cover, that in warm weather it does very well 
without heating up the fluid, although it would make a little 
q^uicker with it ; and if desired to make in cold weather, 
you must heat the fluid and keep the room warm also. 

If families choose to try this plan, they can make all 
they will need in a keg not larger than a common churn, 
whilst wholesalers will use tubs as tall as thair rooms will 
admit. 

The first merchant to whom I sold this recipe, made all 
the vinegar he could retail by placing strips of board across 
the centre of a whisky barrel, which supported the shavings 
in the upper half only, allowing the vinegar to stand in the 
lower half ; as his room was so low, he could only use the 
one barrel and a wash tub at the top instead of the false-top 
and space as represented in our cut; it took him only a week 
to make i^in this way. I used the vinegar over a year. 
The strength of the fluid he used was good common whisky, 
one gal. ; water, four gals. So it will be seen that all 
kinds of spirit, or articles containing spirit, can be made into 
vinegar. 

Remark — If you wish to make sugar into vinegar, do not at- 
tempt to run it through the generator, as it forms mother in that 
way, and soon fills up the little holes ; but make it by standing 
in a barrel, as mentioned under that head, No. 4. 

8. Quick Process, by Standing upon Shavings. — Take 4 
or 5 hogsheads or casks, and set them side by side, having a fau- 
cet near the bottom ; then fill up the casks full of shavings pre- 
pared as in the foregoing recipe, or clean corn-cobs, putting 
Bome turning shavings over the top, after having put on an old 
coffee sack to keep the fine shavings from falling down among 
the coarse on§s ; this is to keep in the warmth ; now sour the 
shavings with the best vinegar, by throwing it on the shavingf 
and letting it stand half a day or so; then draw ofl" by the fau- 
cet at the bottom, and throw it on again, adding 1 qt. of high- 
wines to each ban el each time you draw it ofl", as the shavings 
absorb the acid, and t'^e vinegar would become flat, but by add- 
ing the'spirit the shavings become soured or acetified, and the 
vinegar gets better also. When the shavings are right, take 
highwines 30 or 40 per cent above proof 1 gal. ; molasses 1 qt. ; 
•oft water 14 gals. ; (river or well water will do, but not u goo* 



4C UK. chase's BEClPfett. 

for any vinegar ) and put it upon the shavings, and draw off *n« 
put on again from (^ne to three times daily, until veulficiently 
sour to baiTel up. 

Mr. Jackson, a Grocer, of Jackson, Michigan, has boon 
making in this waj for several years. He uses also, Mour 
ale, rinsings of sugar hogsheads, or the drippings, and 
throws this fluid on the shavings, and draws off and returns 
from one to three times each day until siiiBcieutly sour to bar- 
rel up, which only requires a few drawings ; he then fills his 
barrels only two-thirds full, and leaves the bungs out sum- 
mer and winter, and if he finds a barrel is getting weak in 
Btrength, he puts in a quart of highwines, which recruits 
the strength, or gives it work again, which, as I remarked 
before, if you give him stock to work on, and air, he labor* 
— without both, he dies. Bear this in mind, and your vin- 
egar will improve all the time, no matter how, or of what i* 
is made. He fills the tubs only one-third or one-half full 
when making, does not heat, but uses yeast, and only work* 
them in warm weather, and in winter fills the tubs with 
good vinegar, and lets them stand over until spting, whe» 
they are ready for work again. 

This man, with five casks thus managed, has sold over 
three hundred barrels of vinegar in one season. 

It might not be amiss, in closing this lovrj subject, to say 
that when you have no vinegar to begin with in either of 
the processes, that if you commence with the fluid quite 
weak at first, it begins to sour quicker than if begun with at 
full strength, then as it begins to become sour, add more of 
the spirit, cider, sugar, or molasses, &c., UBtil you get the 
desired point of strengih. So you might go on until a swal- 
low of it would strangle a man to death, and remove every 
particle of skin from his throat. 

BUTTER. — To Preserve any Length of Time. — First 
-work out all the buttermilk. Second — use rock salt. Tliird 
—pack in air-tight jars or cans. Fourth — keep in a cool place, 

and you will have nice butter for years, if desired to keep so 

long. A short recipe, but it malces long butter. 

Merchants, who take in more butter than they can sell 
during the warm months, can put it into jars and cover the 
jar with about half an inch of lard over the top of the but 
ter, and place it in the cellar ; or they can put about aw 



merchants' and grocers liCPARTMENT. 41 

inch or two of brine in place of the lard, and have it do 
well, first working out all the huttermilh which may remain, 
when bought in. It would be well for them to have their 
regular customei-s to furnish them butter, to whom they 
furuidh the right kind of salt, as the rock, or crystal salt, 
does not contain so much lime as the common, which u 
evaporated by artificial heat. Let sugar, and saltpeter, and 
dl other pe^fjAs, alone, if you wish good butter, either for 
proiscnt use or long keeping. 

2. Making — Directions fok Dairymen. — If butter makers 
car dairymen, will use only shallow pans for their milk — and 
?he larger the Gurface, and the less the depth of the milk the 
better — then put into each pan, before straining, 1 qt. of cold 
spring-water to every 3 qts. of milk, they will find the cream 
will begin to rise immediately, aud skim eveiy 13 hours, the 
butter will be free from all strong taste arising from leaves, or 
coarse pasturage. 

It is a fact, also, that high or up-land makes better butter 
than when the cows are kept on rich bottom pasturage. The 
object of the cold water is double : it cools the milk, so that 
the cream rises before the milk sours, (for when milk be- 
comes sour it furnisl^es no more cream,) and also improves 
the flav^or. 

3. Storing — The (Illinois) Prairie Parmer's Method. — 
First, work the buttermilk carefully from the butter ; then pack 
it closely in jars, laying a thin cloth on top of the butter, then a 
thin layer of salt upon the cloth ; now have a dry cellar, or 
make it so by draining, and dig a hole in the bottom of it for 
each jar, packing the dirt closely and tightly around the jar, al- 
hjwing the tops of the jars to stand only an inch or so above 
the top of the cellar bottom ; now place a board with a weight 
ujjon each jar to prevent removing by accident, and all is safe. 

Merchants who are buying in butter, should keep each 
different lot separate, by using the thin cloth and salt, then 
another cloth over the salt before putting in the next lot, 
for mixed butter will soon spoil, besides not selling as well, 
acd finally cover the top as before described. If kegs or 
barrels are used, the outside must be as well painted as pos- 
sible to prevent outside tastes, and also to preserve the wood. 

FRUITS TO KEEP.— Without Loss op Color or Flavor 
— To each pound of rosin, put in 1 oz. of tallow, and 1 oz. of 
beeswax. Melt them slowly over the fire in an iron kettle, and 
be careM and not let it boil. T>U^ Uie JiiruU separately and rub 



42 DR. chase's recipes. 

It over Trith whiting or fine chalk (to prevent the coating from 
adhering to the fruit,) then dip it into the sohition once and hold 
it up a moment to Bet the coating ; then pack away carefully in 
baiTcls or boxes in a cool place. When you dip oranges or lem- 
ons, loop a thread around to hold them; for pears or apples, in- 
sert a pointed stick to hold them by, then cut it off with a pair of 
sharp, heavy shears. Oranges or lemons cannot be put in boxes 
but must be placed on shelves, as the accumulated weight would 
mash them down. 

It is now a well established fact that articles put up sci- 
entifically air-tight, may be kept fresh and fair for any 
length of time, or until wanted for use. This composition 
makes good sealing for air-tight cans or bottles, pouring it 
around the top of the can cover, and dipping the neck of 
the bottle into it. A patent has been secured for a compo 
sition for preserving fruit, of different proportions, however, 
from the foregoing, but the agent, at the Ohio State Fair in 
1859, had such poor success in selling rights at three dol- 
lars that he reduced the price to twenty-five cents, and still 
but few would take hold of it, so that I think not much 
more will be done with the patent. I purchased twenty 
recipes for one dollar, but finding his composition to stick 
togetJier and tear off pieces wherever they touched each 
other, I went to work to improve it, as above. The patented 
proportions are, rosin 5 lbs., lard or tallow 8 oz., beeswax 
4 oz. The patentee is John K. Jenkins, of Wyoming, Pa., 
and the patent was issued December 8, 1858. It does not 
work well on peaches or other juicy garden fruits. 

EGGS. — To Preserve for Winter Use. — For every three 
gallons of water, put in 1 pt. of ficsh slacked lime, and common 
salt 1-2 pt. ; mix well, and let the barrel be about half full 
of this fluid, then with a dish let down your fresh eggs into 
it, tipping the dish after it fills with water, so they roll out with- 
out cracking the shell, for if the shell is cracked the egg ffH] 
spoil. 

If fresh eggs are put in, fresh eggs will come out, as 1 
have seen men who have kept them two, and even four, 
years, at sea. A piece of board may be laid across the top 
of the eggs, and a little lime and salt kept upon it, which 
keeps the fluid as strong at the top as at the bottom. This 
will not fail you. They must always be kept covered with 
the brine. I*'am'.li«« in towns and cities by this plan can 
hav3 eggs for winter ase at symmer prices. I have put up 
foLtv dozen , with entire success 



merchants' and orocees* department. 43 

The plan of preserving eggs has undoubtedly come from 
a patent secured by a geutleuian in England in 1791, 
Jaynes, of Sheffield, Yorshlre, ■which reads as follows: 

2. English Patented Method. — " Put into a tub 1 bn. "Win- 
chester measure, of quick lime, (which is fresh slaclied lime,) 
salt 32 oz. ; cream of tartar 8 oz. Use as much water as will 
give that consistency to the composition as will cause an egg to 
swim with its top just above the liquid. Then put and keep 
the eggs therein, which will preserve them perfectly sound at 
least 2 years." 

Persons who think it more safe can follow this English 
plan. I desire in all cases to give all the information I 
have on each subject. Consequently I give you the follovf- 
ing also : 

3. J. "W. Cooper, M. D.'s, Method op Keeping and Shtp- 
fiNG Game Eggs. — " Dissolve some gum shellac in a sufficient 
quantity of alcohol to make a thin varnish, give each egg a 
coat, and after they become thoroughly diy, pack them in bran 
or saw dust, with their points downwards, in such a manner 
that they cannot shiit about. After you have kept them as long 
as you desire, wash the varnish carefully off, and they will be 
iii the same state as they were before packing, ready for eating 
or hatching." 

This would seem to be from good authority, as Dr. Cooper 
has been engaged for the last thirty years in raising nothing 
but the best game fowls, and he has frequently imported 
eggs. He invariably directed them to be packed as above, 
and always had good success with them, notwithstaading 
the time and distance of the journey. He has also pub- 
lished a work upon Game Fowls. His address is Media, 
Delaware Co., Pa. 

This last plan would be a little more troublesome, but 
still T"Quld not be very much to prepare all that families 
woulf* wish to use through the winter, or even for the 
retai V / ; as the convenience of having them in a condition 
to ship would be one inducement to use the last method, for 
tyith the first they must be taken out and packed in oats or 
flomething of that sort, to ship ; with the last they are 
always ready ; and weather permitting, about Christmas or 
New Year's, fresh and good eggs in cities always command 
Bufficient price to pay for all trouble and expense in th« 
•oreservation and shipment. 



44 DB. chase's recipes. 

The Sex of Eggs. — Mr. Genin lately addressed tli« 
Academy des Sciences, France, on the subject of the sex 
of eggs. He affirms that he is now able, after having stud- 
ied the subject for upwards of three years, to state with as- 
surance that the eggs containing the germ of males, have 
wrinkles on their smaller ends, while female eggs are smooth 
at the extremities. 

While on the subject of eggs, you will excuse me for 
putting in a couple of items more which appropriately be- 
long to other departments : 

4. To Increase the Laying. — " For several years past 
I have spent a few weeks of the latter part of August on 
the Kennebec river, in Maine. The lady with whom I 
have stopped is a highly accomplished and intelligent house- 
wife. She supports a "h'^nncry " and from her I derived 
my information in the matter. She told me that for many 
years she had been in the habit of administering to her 
hens, with theii common food : 

" Cayenne pepper, pulverized, at the rate of 1 tea-spoon each 
alternate day to 1 doz. fowls. 

" Last season, when I was with her, each morning she 
brought in from twelve to fourteen eggs, having but sixteen 
hens in all. She again and again experimented in the uiai- 
t«r by omitting to feed with the Cayenne for two or three 
days. The consequence invariably was that the product of 
eggs fell off five or six per day. The same effect of u.sing 
the Cayenne is produced in winter as in summer." — Bustrm 
Transcnpt. 

5. To Put— ExTiiA Nice. — Three eggs ; flour 1 table-spoon 
milk 1 cup. 

Beat the eggs and flour together, then stir in the milk. 
Have a skillet with a proper amount of butter in it, made 
hot, for frying this mixture ; then pour it in, and when one 
side is done brown, turn it over, cooking rather slowly ; if a 
larger quantity is needed, it will require a little salt stirred 
in but for this amount, the salt in the butter in which yon 
fry it, seasons it very nicely. 

BURNING FLUID.— Best IN Use.— Alcohol, of 98 per cent 
9 pts. ; good camphcne 1 qt., or in these proportions. Shako 



merchants' and grocers' department. 45 

ttrlskly, and it will at once become clear, when without the 
taking it would take from 6 to 7 qts. of alcohol to cut the cam- 
,)hene, while with the least it is the best. 

These proportions make the best burning fluid wtich can 
be combined. Many put in camphor gum, altlm, &c., the 
first to improve its burning qualities, the last to prevent ex- 
plosion, but they are perfectly useless for either, from the 
tact that carapnor adds to the smoking properties, and noth- 
ing can prevent the gas arising from any fluid that wil] 
burn, from explosion, if the fire gets to it when it is eon- 
Sned. The only safety is in filling lamps in day-time, or 
far from fire or lights j and also to have lamps which are 
perfect in their construction, so that no gas may leak out 
»long the tube, or at the top of the lamp ; then let who will 
%y he can sell you a recipe for non-explosive gas or fluid, 
you may set him down at once for a humbug, ignoramus, or 
knave. Yet you may set fire to this fluid, and if not con- 
fined it will not explode, but will continue to burn until all 
is consumed. Families cannot make fluid any cheaper than 
to buy it, as the profit charged on the alcohol is usually 
more than tkat charged on fluid ; but they will have a bet- 
ter article by this recipe than they can buy, unless it is 
made from the same, and it is best for any one, even the 
retailer, only to make small quantities at a time, and get 
the freshest camphenc possible. When made in large quan- 
tities, even a barrel, unless sold out very soon, the last part 
18 not as good as the first, owing to the separation of the 
camphene from the alcohol, unless frequently shaken, whilst 
being retailed out. 

INTEREST.— Computing by One Multiplicaton and Onb 
i)rvisiON, AT ANY Kate Per Cent.— Multiply the amount by 
ihe number of days, (counting 30 days to each mouth.) 
Divided by 60 gives the interest at 6 per cent. 
do 45 " " 8 " 

do 40 " " 9 " 

do 36 " " 10 " 

do 30 " " 12 " 

ExAMPi^E.— f 150 at 3 months and 10 days, or 100 days, is 
loOOO, divided by 60 gives $2,50 which is the interest at 6 per 
cent ; or divided by 45 gives $3,33 intei-est at 8 per cent, «fec. 

I sold a gentleman, a miller, one of my books the second 
time, as some person stole the first before he became fami- 
liar with tho foregoing rules, which he admired too mucb 
to lose. 



46 DR. chase's recipes. 

2 Method by a Single Mui^tipltcation.— Rcxe. — To flntf 
the interest on any giren sum of money for any number of yearsj 
mouths or clays. Keduce the yeai"3 to months, add in the months 
if any, take one-third of the days and set to the right of th« 
months, in decimal form, multiply this reeult by one-half th< 
principal, and you have the interest ieqi'.ired. 

Example.— The interest required ou $1,400 for 2 yeara, S 
months, and 9 days: 

Interest on $1,400 for 2 ycjun, 3 montha, and 8 cLi>a. 

27.3 
700 



Answer requiicd, $191.10.0 

The above example ia at six per cent. Rule to obtain th« 
interest at any other rate : For seven per cent increase the 
interest at six per cent by one-sixth, for eight per cent by 
one-third, for nine per cent by one-half, for ten per cent by 
two-thirds, for eleven per cent by five-sixths, for twelve per 
cent multiply by two. Twelve per cent is the highest 
rate of interest allowed by any State, except Minnesota, 
which, I believe, allows fifteen per cent. 

In pointing off, persons will observe to point off as many 
figures in the product or answer as there are decimal points 
in the multiplicand. The balance, or remainder, sLow you 
tlie dollars and cents. 

COUNTERFEIT MONEY.— Seven Rules for De- 
TECTiNG. — First — Examine the form and features of all 
human figures on the notes. If the forms are graceful and 
features distinct, examine the drapery — see if the folds lie 
natural ; and the hair of the head should be observed, and 
Bee if the fine strands can be seen. 

Second. — Examine the lettering, tbe title of the bank, 
or the round handwriting on the face of the note. On all 
genuine bills, the work is done with great skill and perfect- 
ness, and there has never been a counterfeit but was defect- 
ive in the lettering. 

Third. — The imprint, or engraver's name. By observ- 
ing the great perfection of the different company names- 
in the evenness and shape of the fine letters, counterfeiters 
never get the imprint perfect. This rule alone, if strictly 
observed, ^dli detect every counterfeit note in existence. 



MERCHANTS' AND GROCERS' DEPARTMENT. 'Jj^ 47 

FeURTH. — The shading in the back-ground of th« vig- 
fcette, or over or around the letters forming the name of the 
bank, on a good bill is even and perfect, on a counterfeit is 
irregular and imperfect. 

Fifth. — Examine well the figures on the other parts of 
the note, containing the denomination, also the letters. Ex- 
amine well the die work around the figures which stand for 
the denomination, to see if it is of the same character as 
that which forms the ornamental work surrounding it. 

Sixth. — ^Never take a bill that is deficient in any of the 
•bove points, and if your impression is bad when you first 
•ee it, you had better be careful how you become convinced 
to change your mind — whether your opinion is not alt«red 
as you become confused in looking into the texture of the 
workmanship of the bill. 

Seventh. — Examine the name of the State, name of the 
bank, and name of the town where it is located. If it has 
been altered from a broken bank, the defects can plainly be 
seen, as the alteration will show that it has been stamped 
oa. 

INKS— Black Copying, or Wkiting Fluid. — Rain wat« 3 
gals. ; gum arable i lb. ; brown sugar i lb. ; clean coperas i lb. ; 
powctered nutgalls i lb. ; bruise all, and mix, shaking occasion 
ally for 10 days, and strain ; if needed sooner, let it steep in an 
Iron kettle until the strength is obtained. 

This ink can be depended upon for deeds or records 
which you may wish some one to read hundreds of years to 
come. Oxalic acid one-fourth oz. was formerly put in, but 
since the use of steel pens it does not work well on them. 
If not used as a copying ink, one-fourth the gum or sugar is 
sufficient as it flows more free without them. 

2. Common Black. — Logwood chips 1 lb. ; boiJ in H gals, of 
water until reduced Lo 2 qts. ; pour off, and repeat the boilu:g 
i^in as before ; mix the two waters, 1 gal. in all ; then add 
Iw-chromate of potash { oz. ; prussiate of potash i ge. ; prussitte 
of iron (prussian blue) I oz. ; boil again about 5 minutes, atid 
itrain and bottle for use. 

YovL will find none of the guminess about this ink that 
IS found iu that made from the extract of logwood ; yet it 
18 not presumed that this will be as durable as the gall inks, 
for deeds, records, &c., &o., but for schools and common usft 



48 DE. chase's recipes. 

it 18 as good as the most costly inks. This copy was pre- 
pared with it, which was made two years ago. 

3. Red — The Very Best.— Take an ounce vial and put into 
it a tea-spoon of aqua ammonia, gum arabic the size of 2 peas, 
and 6 grs. No. 40 carmine, and 5 grs. No. 6 or 8 caiinine also; 
fill up with soft water and it is soon ready for use. 

This forms a beautiful ruling ink. I sold thg book in 
the Pike County Bank, 111., from the fact that this ink was 
BO much better than what they could get of any other make. 
Speaking of banks, makes me think of what a gentleman 
of Michigan City, Ind., told me about a black ink for bank- 
ing purposes which would never fade, composed of twa 
articles only : 

L'on or steel filings and simple rain water, exposing it to the 
sun for a good length of time ; pale when first written with, but 
becoming very black. 

I have never thought to try it, but now mention it, for 
fear it might be good, and lost to the world, unless noF 
thrown to the public. 

4. Blue. — Take sulphate of indigo and put it into water until 
you get the desired depth of color ; that sold in [little boxes foi 
blueing clothes is the article desired. 

This does well for school children, or any writing not of 
importance to keep ; but for book keeping it is not good, 
as the heat of a safe in a burning building fades away the 
color. 

5. Indelliblk. — Nitrate of silver 11 grs. ; dissolve it in 30 
grs., (or about a tea-spoon) of water of ammonia; in 85 grs. (or 
2i tea-spoons) ot rain water, dissolve 20 grs. of gum arabic. 
When the gum is dissolved put into the same vial also 22 grs. 
of carbonate of seda, (sal-soda.) When all is well dissolved, 
mix both vials, or their contents, and place the vial containing 
the mixture in a basin of water, and boil for several minutes, 
or until a black compotmd is the result. Wheji cold it is ready 
for use. Ilave the linen or other goods starched and ironed, and 
})erfectly dry ; then write with a quill pen. 

If twice the amount is made at a time it will not cost any 
more, as the expense is only from the trouble of weighing, 
so little is used of the materials. Soft soap and boilinjj 
cannot eflface it. nor years of wear. Use only glass vessels, i 

6. Powder— Black. — Sulphate of copper 1 dr. ; gum arable 
i oz. ; ci>pperas 1 ox. ; nutgalls and extract of logwood 4 ozs. 
ov:h ; all to be pulverized and evenly mixed. — Scientific American. 



MERGHANTS' AND GROCEUS' DEPARTMENT. 49 

About one oz. of the mixture will be required to each 
^-int of boiling water used. It will be found a valuable 
color for boot, shoe and harness-edge, also. It should stand 
a couple of weeks before using, or it may be steeped a few 
hours if needed sooner. 

HONEYS. — Artificial Cuba Boswr —Good brown sugar 
10 lbs. ; water 1 qt. ; old bee brea'' honey in the comb 2 lbs.; 
cream of tartar 1 tea-spoon ; gum arable 1 oz. ; oil of pepper- 
mint 3 drops; oil of rose 2 drops. Mix and boil 2 or 3 minutes 
and have ready 1 qt. more of water in which an egg is put well 
beat up ; pour it in, and as it begins t© boil, skim well, remove 
from the fire, and when a little cool, add 2 lbs. of nice bees' 
honey, and strain. 

This is really a nice article, looking and tasting like 
honey. It has been shipped in large quantities under the 
name of " Cuba Honey." It will keep any length of time 
as nice and fresh as when first made, if sealed up. Some 
persons use a table-spoon of slippery elm bark in tliis 
amount, but it will ferment in warm weather, and rise to the 
'op, requiring to be skimmed oflF. If it is to be used only 
iov eating purposes, the cream-of-tartar and gum arable may 
oe left out, also the old bee-bread honey, substituting for it 
mother pound of nice honey. 

2. Domestic Honey. — Coffee sugar 10 lbs. ; water 8 lbs. ; 
cream of tartar 2 ozs. ; strong vinegar 2 table-spoons : the white 
of 1 egg well beaten ; bees' honey i lb. ; Lubin's extract of honey- 
suckle 10 drops. 

First put the sugar and water into a suitable kettle and 
place upon the fire ; and when luke-warm stir in the cream 
of tartar, and vinegar; then continue to add the egg; and 
when the sugar is nearly melted put in the honey and stir 
until it comes to a boil, take it off, let it stand a few min- 
utes, then strain, adding the extract of honeysuckle last, let 
stand over night, and it is ready for use. This resembles, 
candied honey, and is a nice thing. 

3, Excellent Honey. — An article suitable for everj- 
day use is made as follows : f 

Good common sugar 5 lbs. ; water 1 qt. ; gradually bring it to 
A boil, skimming well ; when cool, add 1 lb. bees' honey and 4 
drops of peppermint essence. 

If you desire a better article, use white sugar and one- 
half pint less water and one-half pound more honey. If it ia 

COP 



50 DE. chase's recipes.' 

desired to give it the ropy appearance of bees' honey, put 
into the water one-fourth ounce of alum. 

4. Premium Honey. — Common sugar 4 lbs. ; water 1 pt. ; let 
them come to a boil, and skim ; then add pulverized alum J oz. ; 
remove from the fire and stir in cream of tartar ^ oz. ; and watci 
or extract of rose 1 table-spoon, and it is fit for use. 

This took the premium at an Ohio State Fair. We use 
the recipes for common sugar and the one using Lubin'a 
extract of honeysuckle, and desire nothing better. 

JELLIES — Without Fruit. — Take water 1 pt. and add to it 
pulverized alum i oz., and boil a minute or two ; then add 4 lbs. 
of white crushed or coffee sugar, continue the boiling a little, 
strain while hot; and when cold put in half of a two shilling 
bottle of extract of vanilla, strawberry, or lemon, or any other 
flavor you desire for jelly. 

This will make a jelly so much resembling that made 
from the juice of the fruit that any one will be astonished 
alid when fruit cannot be got, it will take its place admira- 
bly. I have had neighbors eat of it and be perfectly aston» 
ished at its beauty and palatableness. 

BAKING POWDERS— Without Drugs.— Baking soda 6 
ozs. ; cream of tartar 8 oz. ; first dry them from all dampness 
by putting them on a paper and placing them in the oven for a 
short time, then mix and keep dry, in bottles or boxes. 

The proper amount of this will be about one tea-spoon to 
each quart of flour being baked. Mix with cold water, and 
bake immediateli/. This contains none of the drugs gen- 
erally used for baking powders ; it is easy made, and does 
not cost over half as much as to buy them already made. 
This makes biscuit very nice without milk or shortening. 
Yet if milk is used, of course it would be that much richer. 
The main object of baking powders is for those who are 
" Keeping bach, " as it is called, or for those who are far 
from civilized conveniencies, and for those who prefer this 
kind of bread or biscuit to that raised with yeast or sour 
milk and saleratus. I stand among the latter class. 

MOUTH GLUE— For Torn Paper, Notes, &c.— Any quan- 
tity of glue may be used, with sugar, only half as much as oi 
the glue. 

First dissolve the glue in water, and carefully evaporate 
as much of the water as you can withoi»*. }>j»»7v«^ *^*5 gluo ; 



SALOON DEPARTMENT. 51 

then add the sugar ; if desired to have a very nice article, 
use gelatine in place of the. glue, and treat in the same 
manner ; when the sugar is dissolved in the glue pour it 
into moulds or a pan and cut it into squares, for conve- 
nience, before it gets too hard. This dissolves very quickly 
by placing the edge of a piece in the mouth, and is not 
unpleasant to the taste, ani is very handy for office or house 
use. Use to stick together torn bills, paper, &c., by soften- 
ing the edge of a piece, as above, then touching the parts 
therewith and pressing together for a moment only. 



SALOON DEPARTMENT. 



Remarks. — If saloon keepers, and grocers, who deal in 
wine, beer, cider, &c., will follow our directions here, and 
Diake some of the following articles, they, and their custom- 
ers, will be better pleased than by purchasing the spurious 
articles of the day ; and families will find thcra equally appli- 
cable to their own use. And although we start with an ar- 
tificial cider, yet it is as healthy, and is more properly a 
small beer, which it should be called, but from its close re- 
semblance to cider, in taste, it has been so named. 

CIDERS. — Artificial, or Cider without Apples.— To cold 
water 1 gal., put dark brown sugar 1 lb. ; tartaric acid i oz. ; 
yeast 3 table-spoons, and keep these proportions for any amount 
desired to make ; shake it well together. Make it in the evening 
and it will be fit for use the next day. 

I make in a keg a few gallons at a time, leaving a few 
quarts to make into next time — not using yeast again until 
the keg needs rinsing. If it gets a little sour make more 
into it. In hot weather draw in a pitcher with ice ; or if 
your sales are slow, bottle it and keep in a cool cellar accor- 
ding to the next recipe. 

2. To Bottle. — If it is desired to bottle this artificial 
cider by manufacturers of small drinks, you will proceed aa 
follows : 

Put into a barrel, hot water 5 gals. ; brown sugar 30 lbs. ; tar- 
taric acid t lb. ; cold water 25 gals. ; hop or brewers' yeast 8 
pts. ; work the yeast into a paste with flour i lb. ; shake or atir 



52 DB. chase's rehpes 

all well together; fill the ba.rel full, and let it work 24 to 4« 
hours, or until the yeast is done working out at the bung, by 
having put in a little sweetened water occasionally to keep tba 
baiTel full. 

When it has worked clear, bottle it, putting in two or 
three broken raisins to each bottle, and it will nearly equal 
champagne. Let the bottles lay^n a cool place on the sid» 
— (observe also this plan of laying the bottles upon the 
side, in putting away apple-cider or wine) — but if it is only 
for your own retail trade you can make as follows in the 
next recipe, and have it keep until a barrel is retailed. The 
first recipe will last only three or four days in hot weather, 
and about two weeks in winter. 

3, In Barrels for Long Keeping. — If retailers wish 
to keep this cider with the least possible loss of time, or 
families for their own drink or for the harvest field, proceed 
as follows : 

Place in a keg or barrel, cold water 20 gals. ; brown sugar 15 
lbs., and tartaric acid i lb. only, not using any yeast, but if you 
have them, put in 2 or 3 lbs. dried sour apples, or boil them and 
pour in the expressed juice ; without the yeast it will keep, in a 
cool cellar, for several weeks, even in summer. The darker the 
sugar the more natural will be the color of the cider. 

Dr. 0. B. Reed, of Belle River, Mich,, with whom I 
read medicine, drank of this cider freely, while sick with 
bilious fever, knowing its composition, and recommended it 
to his patients as soon as he got out amongst them again, 
as a drink that would allay thirst, with the least amount of 
fluid, of any thing with which he was acquainted. But 
some will prefer Prof. Hufeland's drink for Fever Patients, 
which see. 

4. Apple Cider, to Keep Sweet, with but Tri- 
FLING Expense. — Two things are absolutely necessary to 
preserve cider in a palatable state for any considerable 
time ; that is, to clear it of pomace, and then to keep it in 
a cool place, and the cooler the place the better. And theo 
if kept air-tight, by bottling, it is also better, but farmers 
cannot tj\ke the time nor expense of bottling. Some per- 
sons leach it through charcoal, and others boil, or rather 
scald and skim, to get clear of the pomace. In the firs^ 
place, cider, that is designed to keep over winter, should bo 



3AL00N DEPAHTMENT. 68 v 

u^de from ripe, sound, sour appleb <Iy, and consequently 
t will b« getting cool -weather, and ,6ss likely to ferment. 
fhea when made : 

Stand in open casks or barrels, and put into each barrel about 
i pt. each of hickory, (if you have them, if not other bard wood), 
tshes and fresh slaclced lime ; stir the ashes and lime first into 
I qt. of new milk ; then stir into the cider. It will cause all the 
oomace to rise to the surface, from which you can skim it as it 
nses, 01 you can let it remain about 10 hours, then draw off by 
a faucet near the bottom, through a strainer, to avoid the hard- 
ened pomace. 

It is now ready for bottling, or barreling, ii* too much 
trouble to bottle. If you barrel it, it has been found essen- 
tial to sulphur the barrel. The sulphuring is done by dip- 
ping cotton cloth into melted sulphur, and drying it; then 
cutting into strips about two by six inches. Put about 
three gallons of cider into the barrel j^fire one end of the 
jtrip of the sulphured cloth, and introduce it into the bung- 
hole, and hold it by means of the bung, giving it air suffi- 
cient to let it burn, keeping the smoke in as it burns, when 
vou will push the bung in tight and shake the barrel until 
the sulphur-gas is absorbed into the cider ; then fill up the 
barrel with cider, and if not already in the cellar, place it 
there, and you have accomplished the two points first spoken 
of If the above plan is too much labor, get oil barrels, if 
possible, to keep your cider in, (as vinegar can scarcely be 
made in an oil barrel, )the oil coming out a little and form- 
ing an air-tight coat on the top of the cider in the barrel 

5. Jtlake your cider late m the Fall, and when made, put " 
hito each barrel, immedii.tely, ground mustard i lb.; salt 3 oz.; 
pulverized chalk 2 oz. ; stir them up in a little of the cider, then 
pour into the barrel, and shake well. 

I have drank cider, kept in this way, in August, which 
was made in early spring j it was very nice. 

6. I have had cider keep very nice, also, by keeping in 
a cool cellar, and putting into each barrel : 

Mustard seed 2 oz. ; allspice 2 oz. ; sweet oil i pt., and acohol 
I pt. only. 

Always ship your cider, if you have cider to ship, late in 
cJie fall, or eai'ly in spring, for if taken out of a cool cellar 



64 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES: 

in hot weather it is sure to start fermentation. If wanted 
for medicine, proceed as in the fallowing recipe : 

7. To Prepare for Medicine. — To each barrel of 
c^ler just pressed from rips, sour apples, not watered : 

Take mustard seed, unground, 1 lb. ; isinglass 1 oz. ; alum pul 
verized 1 oz. ; put all into the barrel, leave the bung out, and 
shake or stir once a day for four days, then take new milk 1 qt., 
and half a dozen eggs, beat well together, and put them into the 
cider and stir or shake again, as before, for 2 days; then let 
It settle until you see that it is clear, and diaw off by a faucet. 

And if you wish to use in place of wine, in medicine, 
put it into bottles ; but if designed for family use you can 
barrel it, bunging it tight, and keep cool, of course, and 
you will have a very nice article, if the cider was not made 
too near a well, or running stream of water ; .jut it is found 
that if made too near these, the cider does not keep. 
Judge ye why ! 

In some parts of England, by using only ripe, sound ap- 
ples, letting it work clear, racking off about twice, bottling, 
&c., &c., cider is kept from twenty to thirty years. When 
cider is drawn off and bottled, it should not be corked until 
the next day after filling the bottles, as many of them will 
burst. Then lay on the side. 

ST RUPS.— To MjiKE THE Various Colors.— Powder cochi- 
neal 1 oz. ; soft water 1 pt. ; boil the cochineal in the wafer foi 
a few minutes, using a copper kettle; while boiling, add 30 gra. 
of powdered alum, and 1 dr. of cream of tartar ; when the col- 
oring matter is all out of the cochineal, remove it from the fire, 
and when a little cool, strain, bottle ana set aside for use. 

This gives a beautiful red, and is used in the strawberry 
syrups only. Colored rather deep in shade. Pine apple ia 
left without color. Wintergrecn is colored with tincture of 
camwood, (not deep.) Lemon and ginger with tincture 
of turmeric. (See Tinctures.) The two last named syrupa 
»re not colored high — a light shade "only. 

• 2. Artificial, Various Flavors. — The ground-work of aU 
syrups ought to be the same, t. e.. Simple Syrup ; to make it, 
take 2^ lbs. of the best coffee sugar, which is found not to crys- 
talize, and water 1 pt., or what is the same, 60 lbs. sugar, waler 
8 gals. 

Pissolve the sugar in the water by heat, removing any 



SALOON DEPARTMENT. 65 

scum that forms upon it, and strain while hot. This can be 
tcpt in a barrel or keg, and is always ready to flavor, as 
desired. 

3. Raspberry — Is made as follows : 

Take orris root, bruised, any quantity, say i lb., and just h !nd- 
4f»mely cover it with dilute alcohol, (76 per cent, alcohol, and 
water, equal quantities,) so that it cannot'be made any stronger 
3i the root. 

This is called the " Saturated Tincture ;" and use suffi- 
cieut of this tincture to give the desired or natural taste of 
the raspberry, from which it cannot be distinguished. 

4. Strawberry — Flavor is as follows : 

The saturated tincture of orris, as above, 2 ozs., acetic-ether, 2 
drs. ; mix, and use sufficient to give the desired flavor — a very 
little only is required, in either case. 

5. P[NE Apple flavor is made by using to suit the taste, 
of butyric-ether. If persons have any doubt of these facts 
simply, try them. Some think syrups even for fountains, 
charged with carbonic acid gas, that it is best to use about 
three-fourths oz. of tartaric acid to each gallon, but I 
prefer none unless the fountain is charged with the super- 
carbonate of soda, in which case it is necessary to use about 
three-fourths oz. of the acid to each pound of sugar. See 
Soda Syrups. 

This, above plan, for making simple syrup, is the true 
vay of making all syrups ; but some people think they must 
ise more water, that the syrup may be cheaper. Others 
will object to using artificial flavors. Oh ! they say : *' I 
Duy the genuine article." Then, just allow me to say, 
don't Imy the syrups nor the extracts, for ninety-nine hun- 
dredths of them are not made from the fruit, but are artifi- 
cial. Rather make your own, as given under the head of 
Jams and Extracts. For the more watery syrups, see *' Soda 
Syrups." 

6. Sarsaparilla — Is very nice as follows ; 

Simple syrup, as above, and nice golden syrup, equal quanti- 
ties of each, and mix well ; then use a few drops of oils of win- 
iergreen and sassafras to each bottle, as used. 

The amounts for the desired flavors cannot be given ex- 
itctlj to stiit every one, but all will wish different flavors 



66 DR. ohabe's recipes. 

in some towns, using very high flavor, and in others jaljsr 
cient to percieve it, merely. All will soon get a ph ,i of 
their own, and like it better than that of others. This 
mixture of golden syrup makes the sarsaparilla a bo. atiful 
dark color without other coloring. 

7. Lemon Syrup, Common, — Was formerly made >y dis- 
solving four pounds of crushed sugar in one quart of water, 
by boiling, and adding three ounces of tartaric ac d and 
flavoring with the oil of lemon ; but it is best made an fol- 
lows : 

CoflPee sugar 3 lbs; water IJ pts. ; dissolve by gentle heat, and 
add citric acid 3 ozs., and flavor with oil or extract of lemon. 
See " Extracts." 

8. Or a ver J nice lemon syrup is made as follows : Take cit- 
ric acid in powder J oz. ; oil of lemon 4 drops ; simple syrup 1 
quart. 

Rub the acid and oil in three or four spoons of the syrup_ 
then add the mixture to the remainder, and dissolve with 
gentle heat. Citric acid is not as likely to cause inflamma- 
tion of the stomach as the tailaric, hence, its better adapta- 
tion to syrups calculated for drinks, and especially in disuise. 

9. Lemon Sykup — To Save the Loss of Lemons. — Where 
you have lemons that are spoiling or drying up, take the insidea 
which are yet sound, squeeze out the juice, and to each pint put 
l^ lljs. white sugar, and a little of the peel ; boil a few minutes, 
strain and cork for use. 

This will not require any acid, and one-half tea-spoon of 
soda to three-fourths of a glass of water with two or thiee 
table-spoons of syrup, makes a foaming glass. Some per- 
sons think they ought to put in water, but if water is added 
the syrup will not keep as well, and takes more of it. 

10. Soda Syrup, With or Without Fountains. — The con*- 
mon or more watery syrups are made by using loaf <jr crushert 
sugar 8 lbs. ; pure water 1 gal. ; gum arabic 2 oz. ; mix in h 
brass or copper kettle; boil until the gum is dissolved, then 
skim and strain through white flannel, after which add tananc 
acid 5J oz. ; dissolved in hot water ; to flavor, use extract <>{ 
lemon, orange, rose pine-apple, peach, sarsajmrilla, strawberry, 
&c„ i oz. to each bottle, or to your taste. 

Now use two or three table-spoons of the syrup to three- 
fA«rt,hH of SK tiimbler of water and one-half tea-spoon of 



SALOON DEPABTMENT. 57 

jipcr curbonato of soda, made fine ; stir well and be ready to 
iriuk, or use the soda iu water as mentioned in the " Impe- 
CJul Creaui Nectar ; " the gum arabic, however, holds the 
jdrbouic acid so it will not fly , off as rapidly as common 
ioda. The above is to be used ivithout fountains, that is to 
aaake it up as used, in glasses, or for the cheaper fountains 
which have an ounce of super-carbonate of soda to the gal- 
lon of water ; but for the fountains which are charged, in 
the cities, with carbonic acid gas, no acids are used in the 
lyrupa. 

11. Cream Soda, Using Cow's Cream, for FotmTAXNS.-. 
Nice loaf sugar o lbs.; sweet rich cream 1 qt. ; water 1^ gills; 
warm jD:ra(lually so as not to burn ; extract of vanilla f ©z. ; ex- 
is^ci of nutmeg i oz. 

Just bring to a boiling heat, for if you cook it any length 
of time it will crystalize ; use four or five spoons of this 
syrup instead of three as in other syrups. If used without 
a fountain, tartaric acid one-quarter pound is added. The 
tendency of this syrup is to sour rather quicker than other 
syrups, but it is very nice while it lasts ; and if only made 
in small quantities and kept cool, it more than pays for the 
trouble of making often. 

12. Cream Soda, without a Fountain. — Coffee sugar 4 lbs ; 
water 3 pts. ; nutmegs grated 3 in number ; whites of 10 egga 
well beaten ; gum arable 1 oz. ; oil of lemon 20 drops ; or ex- 
tract equal to that amount. By using oils of other fruits you 
can make as many flavors fi'om this as you desire, or prefer. 

Mix all and place over a gentle firo,,and stir well about 
thirty minutes ; remove from the fire, strain, and divide 
into two parts ; into one-half put supercarbonate of soda 
eight ounces ; and into the other half put six ounces tartaric 
acid ; shake well, and when cold they are ready to use, by 
pouring three or four spoons, from both parts, into separate 
glasses which are one-third tnll of cool water ] stir each and 
potir together, and you have as nice a glass of cream soda as 
wafc ever drank, which can also be drank at your leisure, as 
the ^Tim and eggs hold the gas. 

13. Soda Water, Without a JVIachtne for Bottling. — 
In each gallon of water to be used, carefully dissolve ^ lb. of 
erupheu sugar, and 1 oz. of super-carbonate of soda ; then fill 
t>«lf-pint botUes with this w»l.er, have your corks ready , now 



58 DB. chase's recipes. 

drop into each bottle % dr. of citric acid in crystals, and im- 
mediately cork and tie down. 

These bottles must be handled carefully without shaking, 
and keep cool, until needed; a little more or less sugar can 
be used to suit the taste of different persons. 

OYSTER SOUP.— To each dozen or dish of oysters put J^ 
pt. water ; milk 1 gill ; butter J^ oz. ; powdered crackers to 
thicken. Bring the oj^sters and water to a boil, then add the 
other ingredients previously mixed together, and boil from 3 
to 5 minutes only. 

Each one will choose to add salt, pepper, &c., to their own 
taste. Keep about these proportions if you should have to 
cook for an oyster supper, for parties, «fcc. 

TRIPE^To Prepare and Pickle. — First sew it up, after 
it is turned inside out ; be careful to sew it up tight, that no 
lime gets into it ; now have a tub of lime-water, the consis- 
tence of good thick white-wash ; let it remain in from 10 to 
20 minutes, or until when you take hold of it, the dark out- 
side skin will come oflf; then put it into clean water, chang- 
ing three or four times to weaken the lime, that tiie hands be 
not injured by it ; then with a dull knife scrape olT all of the 
dark surface, and continue to soak and scrape several times 
which removes all offensive substances and smelL After this, 
let it soak 20 or 30 minutes in 2 or 3 hot waters, scraping 
over each time ; then pickle in salt and water 12 hours, and it 
is ready for cooking ; boil from 3 to 4 hours, cut in strips to 
suit, and put it into nice vinegar with the various spices, as 
desired ; renew the vinegar at the expiration of 1 week, is all 
that will be required further. 

Many persons stick up their nose when tripe is spoken of; 
but, if nicely prepared, I prefer it to any dish furnished by 
the beef. 

MOLASSES CANDY KWD POP-CORN BALLS— Candy. 
— Equal quantities of brown sugar and molasses, and put 
them into a suitable kettle — copper is the best — and when it 
begins to boil, skim it well, and strain it, or else pour it 
through a fine wire sieve to free it of slivers and sticks which 
are often found in the sugar ; then return it to the kettle and 
continue to boil, until, when you have dipped your hand in 
cold water and passed one or two fingers through the boil- 
ing candy and immediately back to the cold water, w'hat 
adheres, when cold, will crush like dry egg shells, and does 
not adhere to the teeth when bitten. When done, pour it on 
a stone or platter which has been greased, and as it gets cool 
begin to throw up the edges and work it by pulling on 
a hook or by the hand, until bright and glistening like 
gold ; the hands should have a little flour on them occasiou* 



SALOON DKIARTMENT. 59 

»I1t; now keep the mass by a warm stove, (if much is made 
at oue time), and draw it into stick size, occasionally rolling 
Iheni to keep round, until all is pulled out and cold, then with 
shears clip a little upon them, at proper lengths for the sticks, 
ind they will snap quickly while yet the stick will bend ; nc 
px)lor no butter, no lard or llavor is used or need be, yet any oil 
can be used for flavoring, if desu'ed, when poured out to cool. 

Sugar left in molasses barrels works very nicely in thia 
preparation. Pulverized white sugar sprinkled amongst it 
will prevent it from sticking together. 

2. Candt? Perfectly White. — If it is desired to have 
candy that is perfectly white, proceed as follows : 

Best cofifee sugar 2^ lbs. ; the nicest syrup li pts. ; boi! very 
carefully, until when tried as above, it crisps like egt^ shells, or 
flies like glass ; then draw and work upon the hook imtil very 
white. 

3. Molasses Candy Without SaoAn. — Poilo-Rico molasses 
boiled and worked as above, has a cream shade according to the 
amount of pulling, and most jiersons prefer it to the mixture of 
sugar and molasses, as in the lirst. 

4. Pop Corn Balls.— Pop the corn, avoiding all that is not 
aiccly opened; place i bu. of the corn upon a table or in a large 
dripping pan ; put a little water in a suitable kettle with sugar 
1 lb. ; and boil as for candy, until it becomes quite waxy in 
water, when tried as for candy ; then remove from the fire and 
dip into it 6 to 7 table-spoons of thick gum solution, made by 
pouring boiling water upon gum arable, over night, or some 
houi-s before ; now dip the mixture upon different parts of the 
corn, putting a stick, or the hands, under the corn, lifting up 
and mixing until the corn is all saturated with candy mixture ; 
then with the hands press the corn into balls, as the boys do 
snow balls, being quick, lest it sets before you get through. 

This amount will make about one hundred balls, if prop- 
erly done. White or brown sugar may be used. And for 
variety, white sugar for a part, and molasses or syrup for 
another batch. Either of these are suited to street ped- 
ilara. 

5. Action of sugar or Candy on the Teeth. — M 
Larez, ot France, in the course of his investigations on the 
teeth, has arrived at the following conclusions : 

First — that " refined sugar, either from cane or beet, is injuri- 
ous to healthy teeth, either by immediate contact with these or- 
fans^ or by the gas developed, owing to ita stoppage in the 



60 DR. OnASE'U RECIPES. 

stomach. Second — that if a tooth is macerated in a sati'jatftd 
solution of sugar, it is so much altered in the chemical coniposi 
tion that it becomes gelatinous, and its enamel opaque, sponjjy, 
and easily broken. This modification is due not to free acid, 
but to a tendency of sugar to combine with the calcareous basis 
of the teeth." 

I have destroyed my own teeth, I liave no doubt now, by 
eQnstautly eating candies, while in the grocery business, be 
fore I knew its injurious effects, and I believe it to have de 
stroyed the Jirst teeth of all of my children which werf 
bo.n during my candy-eating propensities. "What say our 
candy-eating gentry to the above 1 * 

LEMONADE. — To Carry in the Pocket. — Loaf sugar 1 
lb. ; rub it down finely in a mortar, and add citric acid i oz. ; 
(tartaric acid will do,) and lemon essence i oz., and continue the 
trituration until all is intimately mixed, and bottle for use. It is 
best to dry the powders as mentioned in the Persian SherDet, 
next following. 

A rounding table-spoon can be done up in a paper and car- 
ried conveniently in the pocket when persons are going into 
out-of-the-way places, and added to half pint of cold water, 
when all the beauties of a lemonade will stand belbre you 
waiting to IJe drank, not costing a penny a glass. This can 
be made sweeter or more sour, if desired. If any howevei 
should prefer an effervescing drink, they can follow the di- 
rections given in the next recipe. 

Persian Sherbet. — Pulverized sugar 1 lb. ; super-carbonate 
of soda 4 ozs. ; tartaric acid 3 ozs. ; put all the articles into the 
stove oven when moderately warm, being separate, upon papei 
or plates ; let them remain sufficiently long to dry out all damp- 
ness absorbed from the air, then rub about 40 drops of lemon 
oil, (or if preferred any other flavored oil,) thoroughly with the 
6\igar in a mortar — wedge-wood is the best — then ad.d the soda 
and acid, and continue the rubbing until all are thoroughly 
mixed. 

Bottle and cork tight, for, if any degree of moisture is 
ermitted to reach it, the acid and soda neutralize each 
ther, and the virtue is thus destroyed. A middling siacd 
table-spoon or two tea-spoons of this put into a half pint 
glass and nearly filled with water and quickly drank, makes 
an agreeable summer beverage ; and if three or four glass- 
es of it are taken within a short time, say an hour or two, 
it has tht effect of a gentle cathartic, hence lor those habit 



SALOON DEPARTMENT. 61 

ually costive it vrould be found nearly or quite equal to the 
seidlite powder, and for children it would be the pleasantest 
of the two. [The printers have tried it, and can bear tes- 
timony to its good qualities.] 

BEERS. — Root Beer.— For each gallon of water to be used, 
take hops, burdock, yellow dock, sarsaparilla, dandelion, and 
spikenard roots, bruised, of each i oz. ; boll about 20 minutes, 
and strain while hot, add 8 or 10 drops of oils of spruce and 
sassafras mixed in equal proportions , when cool enough not tc 
scald your hand, pat in 2 or 3 table-spoons of yeast ; molasses ^ 
of a pint, or while sugar i lb. gives it about the right sweetness. 

Keep these proportions for as many gallons as you wish 
to make. You can use more or less of the roots to suit 
your taste after trying it ; it is best to get the dr'- ""M>ib. or 
dig them and let them get dry, and of course you can add 
any other root known to possess medicinal properties desired 
in the beer. After all is mixed, let it stand in a jar with a 
cloth thrown over it, to work about two hours, then bottle 
and set in a cool place. This is a nice way to take altera- 
tives, without taking medicine. And families ought to make 
it every Spring, and drink freely of it for several weeks, 
and thereby save, perhaps, several dollars in doctors' bills, 

2. Spruce or Aromatic Beer. — For 3 gals, water put in 1 qt. 
and ^ pt. of molasses, 3 eggs well beaten, yeast 1 gill. Into 3 
qts. of the water boiling hot put 50 drops of any oil yon nish 
the flavor of; or mix 1 oz. each, oils sassafras, spruce and wiu- 
tergreen, then use 50 drops of the mixed oils. 

Mix all, and strain ; let it stand two hours, then bottle, 
oearing in mind that yeast must not be put in when the 
fluid would scald the hand. Boiling water cuts oil for beers, 
equal to alcohol 

3. Lemon Beer. — Water 30 gals. ; ginger root bruised 6 ozs. ; 
cream of tartar i lb. ; coffee sugar 13 lbs. ; oil of lemon 1 oz. ; 
or i oz. of the oil may be used, and 6 good sized lemons, sliced : 
yeast 1^ pts. 

Boil the ginger and cream of tartar, about twenty to thirty 
minutes, in two or three gallons of the water; then strain it 
upon the sugar and oils or sliced lemons, which have been 
rubbed together, having warm water enough to make the 
whole thirty gallons just so you can hold your hand in it 
*it)iout burning, or about seventy degrees of heatj then 



62 DR. chase's recipes. 

work up the yeast into a paste, as for the eider, with five or 
six ounces of flour. Let it work over night, skimming off the 
yeast, or letting it work over as the cider, then strain and 
bottle for use. This will kesp fifteen or twenty days. The 
Port Huronites think it a splendid drink. 

4. GiJTGKK Beek. — White sugar 5 lbs. ; lemon juice 1 gill; 
honey i lb. ; ginger, bruised, 5 ozs. ; water 4i gals. 

Boil the ginger thirty minutes in three qts. of the water ; 
then add the other ingredients, and strain ; when cold, put 
in the white of an egg, well beaten, with one tea-spoon of 
lemon essence — let stand four days, and bottle. It will 
keep for months — much longer than if yeast was used ; the 
honey, however, operates mildly in place of yeast. 

6. i'HitADKi.PQiA Beer. — Water 3t> gals. ; brown sugar 20 lbs. ; 
ginger, bruised, IJ lbs. ; cream of tartar i lb. ; super carbonate 
of soda 3 ozs. ; oil oi lemon, cut iu a little alcohol, 1 tea-spoon 
whites of 10 eggs, well beuleu ; hops 2 ozs. ; yeast 1 qt 

The ginger root and hops should be boiled twenty oi 
thirty minutes in enough of the water to make all milk 
warm, then strained into the rest, and the yeast added and 
llowcd to work over night; skimmed and bottled. 

6. Patent Gas Beer. — Ginger 2 ozs. ; allspice 1 oz. ; cinna- 
mon i oz. ; cloves i oz. ; all bruised or ground ; molasses 2 qts. , 
cold water H gals. ; yeast 1 pt. 

Boil the pulverized articles, for fifteen or twenty minutes, 
in the molasses; then strain into your keg, and add the 
water, then the yeast ; shake it well together and bung 
down. If made over night it will be ready for use the next 
day. There ought to be a little space in the keg not filled 
with the beer. This beer is ahead of all the pops and min- 
eral waters of the day, for flavor, health or sparkling quali- 
ties or speed in making. Be careful you do not burst the 
keg. In hot weather, draw in a pitcher with ice. I have 
sold this in the principal towns of Ohio, Indiana and Mich- 
igan, traveling with a caravan, and obtained two dollars for 
the recipe of the man who kept the inside stand, and blow- 
od the head out of the first keg of it which he made, 

7. Corn Beer, Without Yeast.— Cold water 5 gals. ; eouod 
nice com 1 qt. ; molasses 2 qts. ; put all into a keg of this slise; 
shake well, and hi 2 or 3 days a fermentation will have been 
brought on as nicely as with yeast. Keep it bunged tight 



SALOON DEPARTMENT. 63 

It may be flavored with oils of sprtice or lemon, if desir- 
hA, bf pouring on to the oils one or two quarts of the water, 
boiling hot. The corn will last five or six makings. If it 
gets too ss'^ur .idd more molasses and water in the same pro 
portions. It is obeap, healthy, and no bother with yeast. 

8. Strc-'^'g Bi!.ER, English Impro\^d. — Malt 1 peck; conrse 
brown suj,. ' 6 lbs. ; bops 4 oz. ; good yeast 1 lea-cup ; if you 
have not nit. '^ take a little over 1 peck of barley, (twice the 
amount o' oats s-ill do, but are not as ^od,) and put it into an 
oven after the bread is drawn, or into a stove oven, and steam 
the moisture from them. Grind coarsely. 

Now pom' ujx)n the ground malt 8^ gals, of water at 170 or 
172 ® ot heat. The tub in which you scald the malt should 
have a false bottom, 2 or 3 inches from the real bottom ; the 
false bottom should ^e bored full of gimlet holes, so as to act as 
a steamer, to keep i^ck the malt meal. When the water is 
poured on, stir them well, and let it stand 3 hours, and draw ofl 
by a faucet ; put in 7 gals, more of water at 180 to 182 ° ; stir it 
well, and let it stand 2 hom-g and draw it off Thee put on a 
gal. or two of cold water, stiriowell and draw it ofl ; you should 
have about 5 or 6 gals. Put the 6 lbs. of coarse brown su^ar in an 
efjual amount of water; mix with the wort, and bod li to 2 
hours with the hops ; you should have eight gals, when boiled ; 
when cooled to 80 <^ put in the yeast, and let it work 18 to 20 
hours, covered with a sack; use sound iron hooped kegs or por- 
ter bottles, bung or cork tight, and in two weeks it will be good 
sound beer, and will keep a long time ; and for persons of a 
weak habit of body, and especially females, 1 glass of this with 
tlieir meals is far better than tea or coffee, or all the ardent spir- 
its in the universe. If more malt is used, not exceeding i a 
bushel, the beer, of course, would have more spirit, but this 
strength is sufficient for the use of families or invalids. 

9. Ale, Home-Brewed — How it is Made. — The follow, 
mg formula for the manufacture of a famous home-brewed 
ale of the English yeomanry, will convey a very clear idea 
of the components and mixture of ordinary ales. The mid- 
dle classes of the English people usually make their ale in 
q -lantities of two barrels, that is, seventy-two gallons. 

For this purpose a quarter of malt, (8 bus.) is obtained at the 
iwalt-house — or, if wished to be extra strong, nine bushels of 
milt — are taken, with hops, 12 lbs. ; yeast, 5 qts. 

The malt, being crushed or ground, is mixed with 72 gals, 
of water at the temperature of IGOP , and covered up for 3 
hours, when 40 gallons ai'e drawn olf, into which the hops are 
put, and left to infuse. Sixty gallons of water at a temperature 
of 170® are then added to the malt in the mash- tub, and weii 



64 DA. chahe's recipes. 

• 

mixed, and after stauding S liours, sixty gallons are drsxwn off 
The wort from these two mashes is boiled with the hops for 3 
hours, and after being cooled down to 65 ° , is strained through 
a flannel bag into a fermenting tub, where it is mixed with the 
yeast and left to work for 24 or 30 hours. It is then run into 
barrels to cleanse, a few gallons being reserved for filling up the 
casks as the yeast works over. 

Of course when the yeast is worked out it must be bunged 
It* one-half a pint of ihis was taken each meal by men, and 
hail that amount by females, and no other spirits, tea noi 
coffee, during the day, I hesitate not in saying that I firmly 
believe it would conduce to health. I know that this, which 
a man makes himself, or some of the wines mentioned in 
this work, home-made, are all that any person ought to allow 
themselves to use in these days when dollars and cents are 
the governing influences of all who deal in such articles. 

10. Porter, Alb, or Wine, to Prevent Flatness in 
Parts of Bottles for the Invalid. — Sick persons who 
are recommended to use ale, porter, or wine, and can only 
take a small glass at a time, nearly always find the last of 
the bottle flat or stale. 

To prevent this put in the cork firmly, and turn the cork.-«nd 
downwards, in a large tumbler or other vessel nearly filled w^itt 
water. 

This plan prevents communication with the external air. 

11. Cream Nectar, Imperial. — First, take water 1 gal. ; loaf 
sugar 8 lbs., tartaric acVi 8 oz. ; gum arable 1 oz. ; put into a 
suitable kettle and place on the fire. 

Second, take flour 4 tea-spoons; the whites of4 eggs, well 
beaten together, with the flcur, and add water i pt. ; when the 
8rst is blood warm put in the second, and boil 3 minutes, and it 
is done. 

Directions : Three table-spoons of the syrup to a glasa 
half or two-thirds full of water, and add one-third tea-spoon 
i)f super- carbonate of soda, made fine; stir well, and drink 
at your leisure. 

B^"In getting .up any of the soda drinks which are 
spoken of, it will be found preferable to put about eight 
ounces of super-carbonate, often called carbonate of eoda, 
into one pint of water in a bottle, and shake when you 
wish to make a glass of soda, and pour of this into the glsss 
until it foams well, instead of using the dry soda as directed. 



SALOON DEPARTMENT. 65 

18, GutoEft Pop.— Water 5i gals. ; ginger root, bruised, i lb. ; 
tartaric acid i oz. ; -white sugar 2i lbs. ; whites of 3 eggs, -well 
beaten ; lemon oil 1 tea-spoon ; yeast 1 gilL 

Boil the root for thirty minutes in one gallon of the 
water, strain off, and put the oil in while hot ; mix. Make 
over night, and in tJie morning skim and bottle, keeping out 
dediments. 

13. Spanish ^ik<;kiiettb. — To each gal. of water put 1 lb. of 
white sugar ; i oz. best bruised ginger root ; J oz. of cream of 
tartar, and 3 lemons sliced. 

DiiiECTiONS: In making 5 gals, boil the ginger and lemons 10 
minutes in 2 gals, of the water; the sugar and cream of tartar 
to be dissolved in the cold water, and mix all, and add i pint of 
good j^east ; let it ferment over night, strain and bottle in the 
mornmg. 

This is a valuable recipe for a cooling and refreshing bev- 
erage ; compoiinded of ingredients highly calculated to 
aisjist the stomach, and is recommended to persons suffering 
with Dyspepsia or Sick Headache. It is much used in Euro- 
pean countries, and persons having once tested its virtues 
will constantly use it as a common drink. And for saloons, 
or groceries, no temperance beverage will set it aside. 

14. Siiam-Champagne — A Puuely Temperance DRmK. — 
Tartaric acid 1 oz. ; one good sized lemon ; ginger root 1 oz. ; 
white sugar 1^ lbs. ; water S4- gals. ; yeast 1 gill. 

Slice the lemon, and bruise the ginger, mix all, except the 
yeast, boil the water and pour it upon them and let stand until 
cooled to blood heat ; then add the yeast and let it stand in the 
sun through the day ; at night, bottle, tieing the corks, and in 3 
days it will be fit to use. — Mrs. BeecJier. 

Be sure and not drink over three or four bottles at one 
time. 

YEASTS— Hop Yeast.— Hops 1 oz. ; water 3 pts. ; flour X 
tea-cup ; brown sugar 1 table-spoon ; salt 1 tea-spoon ; brewers* 
or bakers' yeast 1 gill. 

Boil the hops twenty minutes in the water, strain into a 
jar, and stir in the flour, sugar, and salt, and when a little 
cool add the yeast, and after four or five hours cover up, and 
stand in a cool place or on the ice for use. 

The above makes a good family yeast, but the following 
is the regular bakers' yeast, as they always keep the »- alt oa 
hand. 

3— Da. chase's ftEOIPSH. 



68 DU. C mask's KEC1PE8. 

2. Bakers' Ykast.— Hops 2 oz. ; water 1 gal. ; wheat floor i 
lb. ; malt floui" 1 pt. ; stock yeast i pt. 

Boil the hops for thirty minutes in the water, strain, and 
let cool until yoxi can well bear your hand m it; then stir 
in the flour aud yeast; keep in a warm place until the fer- 
mentation is well under way, and then let it work in a cooler 
plac8 six to eight hours, when it should be put in pint botr 
ties about half full, and closely corked, and tied down. By 
keeping this in a very cool cellar, or ice-house, it will keep 
for months, fit for use. But as it is often troublesome to 
obtain yeast, to start with, I give you the " Distillers' Jug 
Yeast," starting without yeast. 

3. Jttg-Yeast, Without Yeast to Start With. — Hops i 
lb. ; water 1 gal. ; fine malt flour i pt. ; brown sugar i lb. 

Boil the hops in the water until quite strong, strain, and 
Btir in the malt flour ; and strain again through a coarse cloth, 
and boil again for ten minutes; when lukewarm, stir in the 
sugar, and place in a jug, keeping it at the same tempera- 
ture until it works over ; then cork tight, and keep in a cold 
place. 

4. Yeast Cake. — Good sized potatoes 1 doz. ; hops 1 large 
handful ; yeast i pt. ; com meal sufficient quantity. 

Boil the potatoes, after peeling, and rub them through a 
cullender; boil the hops in two quarts of water, and strain 
into the potatoes; then scald sufiicient Indian meal to make 
them the consistence of emptyings, and stir in the yeast and 
let rise ; then, with unscalded meal, thicken so as to roll 
out and cut into cakes, drying quickly, at first, to prevent 
souring. They keep better, and soak up quicker, than if 
made with flour. 

, ICE CREAM.— Fresh cream i gal. ; rich milk i gal. ; white 
sugar 1 lb. ; some do use as much as 2 lbs. of sugar to the gal- 
lon, yet it leaves an unpleasant astringency in tbe throat after 
eating the cream, but please yourselves. 

Dissolve the sugar in the mixture, flavor with extract to suit 
your taste, or take the peel from a fresh lemon and steep one- 
mlf of it in as little water as you can, and add this — it Quakes 
the lemon flavor better than the extract — and no fl&vor will bo 
universally please as thp lemon ; keep the same proportion for 
any amount d.esired. The juice of strawberries or raspberriet 
gives a beautiful color aud flavor to ice creams ; or alniut i on 



SALOorf DEPARTMENT. O'l 

of essence or extracts to a gallon, or to suit the taste. Have 
your ice well broken ; 1 qt. salt to a bucket of ice. 

About half an hours' constant stirring and occasional 
B«raping down and beating together, will freeze it. The 
old-fashioned freezer which turns in a tub of ice, makes 
smoother and nicer ice-cream than all the patent freezers I 
have seen ; and the plan of using the genuine cream and 
milk gives sufficient profit ; but I will give you the best sub- 
stitutes there are, in the following recipe, but the less you 
eat of either the better will it be for health. 

2. IcK Cream, Very Cheap. — Milk 6 qts. ; Oswego corn 
starch i lb. 

First dissolve the starch in one quart of the milk, then 
mix all together and just simmer a little, (not to boil.) 
Sweeten and flavor to suit your taste, as above ; or — 

3. Irish moss li oz. ; milk 1 gal. 

Fh'st soak the moss in a little cold water for an hour, and 
rinse well to clear it of sand and a certain peculiar taste ; then 
Bteep it for an hour in the milk just at the boiling point, but not 
to boil ; it imparts a rich color and flavor without eggs or cream. 
The moss may be steeped twice. 

It is the Chicago plan. I have eaten it and know it to 
be very nice. A few minutes rubbing, at the end of freez- 
ing, with the spatula, against the side of the freezer, givea 
ice-cream a smoothness not otherwise obtained. 

■WINE8. — Currant, Cherry, and other Berry 
"Wines. — The juice of either of the above fruits can be 
used alone, or in combinations to make a variety of flavors, 
or suit persons who have some, and not the other kinds of 
fruit. 

Express all the juice you can, then take an equal amount of 
boiling water and pour on the pressed fruit, let stand 3 hours, 
Kjueeze out as much as there is of juice, and mix, then add 4 lbs. 
01 brown sugar to each gallon of the mixture ; let stand until 
worked, or 3 or 4 weeks, without a bung in the kej, or barrel, 
simply putting a piece of gauze over the bung hole to keep out 
CJes ; when it is done working, bung it up. 

A cool cellar, of cotirse, is the best place for keeping 
wines, as they must be kept where they will not freeze. 
Some persons use only one-fourth juice, in making fruit 
w'mea, and three-fourths water, but you will bear in mind 



98 OR. chabe's recipes. 

that the wine will be good or bad, just in proportion to tha 
water and sugar used. If care is used when you express 
the juice, to prevent the pulp or seeds from entering or re- 
maining in the juice, uo other straining or racking will be 
needed. Most persons also recommend putting in brandy, 
but if any spirit is used at all, let it be pure alcohol, from one 
gill to one-half pint only per gallon, but the strength of 
juice I recommend, and the amount of sugar, remove all 
Necessity for any addition of spirit whatever. Bear inmlrd 
that all fruit of which you are to make wine ought to be 
perfectly ripe, and then make it as soon as possible there- 
after, not letting the juice ferment before the addition of 
the sugar. If bottled, always lay them on the side. 

J. Rhubarb, or English Patent Wine. — An agree- 
able and healthful wine is made from the expressed juice 
of the garden rhubarb. 

To each gal. of juice, add 1 gal. of soft water in wbich 7 
lbs. of brown sugar has been dissolved ; fill a keg or a barrel 
with this proportion, leaving the bung out, and keep it filled 
with sweetened water as it works over until clear ; then bun^ 
down or bottle as you desire. 

These stalks will furnish about three-fourths their weight 
in juice, or from sixteen hundred to two thousand gallons 
of wine to each acre of well cultivated plants. Fill the bar- 
rels and let them stand until spring, and bottle, as any wine 
will be better in glass or stone 

3. ("^ome persons give Mr. Gaboon, of Kenosha, Wis., 
credit for originating pie-plant wine, but that is a mistake ; 
it has long been made in England, and has even been pa- 
tented in that country. They first made it by the following 
directions, which also makes a very nice article, but more 
applicable for present use than for keeping. 

For every 4 lbs. of the stalks cut fine, pour on 1 gal. of boil- 
ing water, adding 4 lbs. brown sugar ; let stand covered 24 hours, 
having also added a little cinnamon, allspice, cloves and nut- 
meg, bruised, as may be desired for flavoring ; then strain and 
let work a few days, and bottle. 

4. Tomato Wine. — Express the juice from clean, ripe toma- 
toes, and to each gallon of it, (without any water,) put brown 
Bugar 4 lbs. 

Put in ihe sugar immediately, or before ferment«U<» 



SALOON DEPARTMiSNT. 69 

begins — tWft ought to be done in making any fruit wine. 
Something of the character of a cheese press, hoop and 
cloth, is the best plan to squeeze out the juice of toniatoea 
or other fruits, hot the wine stand in a keg or ban'el for 
two or three months ; then draw off into bottles, carefuUj 
avoiding the sediment. It makes a most delightful wine 
having all the beauties of flavor belonging to the tomato, 
and I have no doubt all its medicinal properties also, either 
as a tonic in disease, or as a beverage for those who are in 
the habit of using intoxicating beverages, and if such per- 
sons would have the good sense to make some wine of this 
kind, and use it instead of rot-gut whisky, there would not 
be one-hundredth part of the "snakes in the boot " that now 
curse our land. It must be tasted to be appreciated. I 
have it now, which is three years old, worth more than much 
pretended wine which is sold for three or four shillings a 
pint. 

5. Tomato Cultivation, for Early and Late. — The Work- 
ing Farmer say-s of the tomato plant, " that it bears 80 per 
cent of its fruit witliin 18 inclies of thegrouud, while more than 
iialf the plant is above that pai't. Wlien the branches are cut 
tliey do not bleed, and they may tlierefore be shortened imme- 
diately above the large, or early-setting fruit. 

" The removal of the small fruit on the ends of the 
branches is no loss, for the lower fruit will swell to an un- 
natural size by trimming, and both a greater weight and 
D\e;isuro of fruit will be the consequence, besides obtaining 
a large portion five to fifteen days earlier. The trimming 
should be done so as to have a few leaves beyond the I'ruit, 
to insure perfect ripening. The importance of early manur- 
ing is too evident to need comment. The burying of the 
removed leaves immediately around the plant is a good prac- 
tice, both by insuring full disturbance of the soil, and by 
the presenting of a fertilizer progressed precisely to the 
point of fruit making. The portions buried decay rapidly, 
and are rapidly assimilated." If wanted very early and 
large, trim off all except two or three upon each plant. 

6. To ripen late tomatoes, pull the plants having green toma- 
toes on them, before tlie commencement of frosts, and hang 
them in a well ventilated cellar. 

The fruit will continue to ripen until early winter, espe- 
oially if the cellar is cool and damp. 



70 DB. CnASE'B RECIPES. 

7. The Tomoto as Food. — Dr. Bennett, a professor of 
some celebrity, considers the tomato an invaluable article of 
diet, and ascribes to it various important medical properties. 

Mrst — that the tomato is one of the most powerf\il aperienta 
for the liver and other organs; -vviiere cal&niel is indicated, it is 
probably one of the most elTective and least harmful remedial 
agents known to tlie profession. Second — that a chemical ex- 
tract will be obtained from it that will siqyercede the use of calo- 
mel in the cure of disease. Third — that he has successfully 
treated Diarrlicea with this article alone. Fourth — that when 
used as an article of diet, it is an almost sovereign remedy for 
Dyspepsia and indigestion. Fifth — that it should be constantly 
used for daily food, either cooked or raw, or in the form of catch- 
up ; it is the most healthy article now in use. 

Knowing personally the vakie of the tomato in disexse, 
for food and wine, I freely give all the information regard- 
ing it which I can, that others may make as free use of it 
as health and economy demand, consequently, I give you 
the next item, which I have learned just as the type were 
being set, upon this subject in 1860. 

8. Tomatoes as Food for Cattle. — Mr Davis, the 
editor of the " Michigan State News/' Ann Arbor, Mich.. 
Bays, " that he has fed his cow, this season, at least ten 
bushels of tomatoes." 

His plan is to mix a little bran with them, (say 3 qta. to a 
half bushel of tomatoes, when fed ;) they cause an excellent flow 
of rich and delicious milk. 

He did not think of it until after the frosts, when ob 
serving them going to waste, he thought to see if she would 
eat them, which she did freely, from the commencement. I 
have also known pigs to eat them, but this is not common 
In 1862, I found my cow to eat them as freely as spoken of 
by Mr. Davis. 

8. Wine, from White Currants. — Ripe, white currants, 
any quantity; squeeze out the juice, and put on water to gel out 
as much more as there is of the juice, .and mix the two, and to 
eacli gallon put 3i lbs. of sugar; let it work without boiling oi 
skimming for 2 or 3 months, then rack otf and bottle. 

The white currant has less acidity than the red, and does 
not require as much sugar. I have never tasted currant 
wine equal to this. 

10. Ginger Wink —Alcohol of 98 per cent, 1 quart best ginger 



lAXOOM DEPARTMKNT. 71 

root, bruised, 1 oz. ; cayenne 5 grs. ; tartaric acid 1 dr. ; 'let stand 
1 week and filter, or draw off by faucet above the sediment. 
Now add 1 gal. of water in which 1 lb. of crushed sugar haa 
been boiled. Mix when cold. To make the color, boil J oz. of 
cochineal, f oz. of cream of tartar, i oz. of saleratus, and i oz. 
of alum in 1 pt. of water until you get a bright red color, and 
use a proper amount of this to bring the wme to the desired 
color. 

This wine is suitable for nearly all the purposes for whirh 
any wine is used, and a gallon of it will not cost more thao 
a pint of many wines sold throughout the country for med- 
icinal purposes, represented to be imported from Europe. 
Let a man, suffering with a bad cold, drink about half a 
pint of this wine hot, on going to bed, soaking his feet at 
the same time in hot water fifteen or twenty minutes, and 
covering up warm and sweating it out until morning, then 
washing off his whole body with cool or cold water, by 
means of a wet towel, and rubbing briskly with a coarse dry 
towel for four or five minutes, will not be able to find hia 
cold or any bad effects of it in one case out of a hundred. 
Ladies or children would take less in proportion to age and 
strength. Females in a weakly condition, with little or no 
appetite, and spare in flesh, from food not properly digest- 
ing, but not yet ripened into actual indigestion^ will find 
iilmost entire relief by taking half a wine-glass of this wine 
twenty minutes before meals, and following it up a mouth 
or two, according to their improved condition. For family 
use it is just as good without color, as with it. 

11. Blackberry Wine. — Mash the berries, and pour 1 qt. ot 
boiling water to each gal. ; let the mixture stand 24 hours, stir- 
ring occasionally ; then strain and measure into a keg, adding 3 
lbs. of sugar, and good rye whisky 1 pt., or best alcohol i pt. to 
each gal. 

Cork tight, and let it stand until the following October, 
and you will have wine fit for use, without further straining 
or boiling, that will make lips smack as thev never smacked 
under its influence before. 

I feel assured that where this fruit is plenty, that this 
wine should take the place of all others, as it is invaluable 
in sickness as a tonic, and nothing is better for bowel dis- 
ease. I therefore give the recipe for making it, and having 
tried it myself, I speak advisedly on the subject. 



72 DR. chase's recipes. 

The Dollar Times^ Cincinnati, O., first published fchifl 
rocipe, not using any spirits, but I find that it will often 
sour without it. 

12. Laavton Blackberry — Its Cultivation.- An 
editor at Coldwater, Mich., says of this fruit, " that where 
it is best known it is one of the most popular small fruits 
tliat has ever been cultivated. It has been known to pro- 
duce over one thousand full-grown ripe berries in one season 
on a single stalk ; the average size of fruit being from three- 
fourths to one and a half inches in diameter; quality excel- 
lent, very juicy, seeds very small, and few in number. Five 
quarts of berries will make one gallon of juice, which, 
mix^d with two gallons of water and nine pounds of refined 
sugar, will make three gallons of wine, equal in quality to 
the best grape wine. Professor jMapes and many others, 
who have tested the qualities of the same as a wine-fruit, 
speak 3 1 it in terms of the highest praise. 

13. Po'?i Wine. — Fully ripe wild grapes 2 bu. ; be.«t alcohol 
3 gals. ; 3"iCi-r 25 lbs. ; water to fill a bairel. 

Mash th ' grapes without breaking the seed ; tJien put 
them into i barrel with the sugar and alcohol, au<i fill up 
with rain water, and let it lie a few weeks in the sun; or if 
tlie weather hat become cold, in a warm place; then in the 
cellar until spring ; then rack off and bottle, or place in 
perfectly clean kegs or barrels, and you have a better article 
than nine-tenths of what is represented as imported Port. 

14. Cider Wine. — Prof. Horsford, a celebrated cliemist, 
communicated the following recipe to the Horticultural 
Society of Massachusetts, and recoumiends it for general 
trial : 

" Let the new cider from sonr apples, (ripe, sound fruit pre- 
ferred,) ferment from 1 to 3 weeks, as the weather is warm or 
cool. "Wheu it has attained to a lively fermentalion, add totach 
gallon, according to its acidity, from | a lb. to 2 lbs. of w hite 
crushed sugar, and let the whole ferment until it possesses pre- 
cisely the taste which it is desired should be permanent. In tliif 
condition pour out a quart of the cider and add for each gallon 
\ oz. of sulphite of lime, not sulphate. Stirthe powder and cider 
until intimately mixed, and return the emulsion to the ferment- 
ing liquid. Agitate briskly and thoroughly for a tew moments, 
and then let the cider settle. Fermentation will cease at onca- 



SALOON DEPARTMENT. 73 

When after a few days, tlie cider has become clear, draw off 
carefully, to avoid the sediment, and bottle. If loosely corked 
which is better, it will become a sparkling cider wine, and may 
oe kept indefinitely long. 

This has been tried with varied success ; those who do 
flot think it too much to follow the directions, obtain a good 
article, but others, supposing it to do just as well without 
sugar, or drawing oflF, or bottling, have found but little sat- 
isfaction -they have no rea.son*to expect any ; and yet they 
might be well satisfied to obtain a good wine from the or 
ehard, even with all the above requisitions. 

15. Ghape WmB. — " Ripe, freshly picked, and selected, tame 
grapes, 20 lbs. ; put them into a stone jar and pour over them 6 
qts. of fx)iling soft water ; when sufiiciently cool to allow it, you 
will squeeze them thoroughly with the hand ; after which allow 
them to stand 3 days on the pomace with a cloth thrown over 
the jar, then squeeze out the juice and add 10 lbs. of nice crushed 
sugtu", and let it remain a week longer in the jar ; then take off 
the scum, strain and bottle, leaving a vent, until done ferment- 
ing, when strain again and bottle tight, and lay the bottles on 
the side in a cool place," 

This wine is the same as used by the Rev. Orrin Whit- 
more, of Saline, Mich., for sacramental purposes. I have 
lasted it myself, and would prefer it for medicinal uses to 
nine-tenths of the wines sold in this country. With age, it 
is nice. I am of the opinion that it might just as well re- 
main in the jar until it is desired to bottle, and thus save the 
trouble of the extra straining. For I have now wine, four 
years old in my cellar, made in Evansville, Ind., from the 
grape, which was made without the addition of any particle 
of matter whatever. Simply, the juice pressed out, hauled 
in from the vinery, put into very large casks in a cool cellar, 
aot even racked off again under one year from the time of 
Qiaking, It tastes exactly like the grape itself; this, you 
will perceive, saves much trouble in racking, straining, &c 
[ am told by other wine makers also, that if care is observed 
^hen the juice is pressed out to keep clear of the pomace, 
that wine is better' to stand without racking or straining, 
and that nothing is found in the barrels, after the first year, 
save the crude tartar or wine-stone, as some call it, which all 
grape wine deposites on the sides of the ca,sk. These wines 
are every way appropriate for sacramental and medieinaJ 



74 DB. chask's recipes. 

purposes, and far more pure than can be purchased once in 
a hundred timea, and if one makes their own, they have the 
satisfaction of knoicing that their wines are not made of 
what ij Tulgarly, yet truly called, " Rot-gut whisky." 

10. CoLOKiNG Fon Winks. — White sugar 1 lb. ; water 1 ^ill • 
put into an iron kettle, let boil, and burn to a red blaok, and thick- 
remove from the fire and add a little hot water to keep it froin 
hardening as it cools ; then bottle for use. 

Any of the foregoing wines can be colored with this, as 
desired, but for family use I never use any color. 

17. Stomach Bitteus, Equal to Hostetters', for Oitb- 
pouiiTii ITS Cost, a_nd Schiedam Sciinapps Exposed. — Euro- 
pean Gentian root \\ oz. ; orange peel 2\ nz. ; cinnamon i oz. ; 
anise seed ^ oz. ; coriander seed \ oz. ; cardamon seed \ oz. ; 
ungroimd Peruvian bark ^ oz. ; gum kino J oz. ; Lraise all these 
articles, and put them into the best alcohol 1 pt. ; let it stand a 
week and pour off the clear tincture ; then bo'l 'he dregs a few 
minutes in 1 qt. of water, strain, and press out f.U the strength ; 
now dissolve loaf sugar 1 lb. in the hot liquid, adding 3 qts. cold 
water, and mix witk the spirit tincture Ilist poured off, or you 
can add these, and let it stand on the dregs if preferred. 

18. NOTE. — ScniEDAM Schnapps, Falsely so Called — It 
Is generally known that in Schiedam, Holland, they make the 
best quality of Gin, calling it " SchU.dam Schnapps;" conse- 
quently it might be expected that ur.j/rincipled men would un- 
dertake its imitation ; but hardly ceuld it have been expected 
thai so base an imitation would sl«.rt into existence under the 
guidance of a man, who, at least, calls hi-mself JumoraUe. 

" Take geutian root, i lb. ; orange peel, i lb. ; puds, \ lb. ; (bui 
if this last cannot be obtained, ixxiua aurantior, unripe oranges,) 
or agaric, i lb. ; best galangal, i lb. ; centaury, } lb. ; — cost $1,20. 
Put pure spirit, 10 gals., upon them and let them stand 2 weeks; 
stir it every day, and at the end of that time put 3 gals, of this 
to one barrel of good whisky ; then bottle and label; and here 
follows the label : 

AROJ^IATIC SCHIEDAM SCHNAPPS, A Stjperlattvi 
Tonic, JOiuretic, Anti-Dyspeptic, and Invigorating Cor- 
dial. — Tms ^Iedical Beverage is manufactured at Schiedam, 
m Holland, and is warranted free from every injurious property 
iud ingredient, and of the best possible quality. 

Its extraordinary medicinal properties in Gravel, Gout, Chronic 
Rheumatism, Incipient Dropsy, Flatulence, Colic Pains of the 
Stomach or Bowels, whether in adults or infants. In all ordi- 
qary cases of obstruction in the Kidneys, Bladder and Urinary 
Organs, in Dyspepsia, whether Acute or Chronic, in general 
Debility, sluggish Circulation of the Blood, Inadequate Assimi- 



jdKDICAL DEPARTMENT. 75 

Ation of Food, and Exhausted Vital Energy, are acknowledged 
jy the whole Medical Faculty, and attested in then- highest 
written authorities." 

I purchased the foregoing recipe of an extensive dealer in 
E-vansville, Ind. ; he put up the stuff in quart bottles, and labeled 
it as I have shown you ; his label was got up in splendid style, 
bronzed letters, and sent out to the world as pure " Scfiiedam 
Schnapps " at $1 per bottle." 

I have given you the whole thing, that the tJumsands into 
whose hands this book may fall, shall know what confidence, or 
that no confidence whatever, can be placed in the " Advertised 
Nostrums" of the day, but that the only security we have is to 
make our own, or go to those whom we know to be scientific. 
Obtain tlieir prescription and follow their counsel. Eveiy person 
knows that real Holland Gin possesses diuretic and other valu- 
able properties ; and who would not suppose he was getting a 
genuine article from this Ftami7ig, Bronze-crested Label, pointing 
out especially all the complaints that Bchiedam-lovers are wont m 
complain off And yet not one drop of gin to a barrel of it. 
And my excuse for this exposure is that they and all who n^ay 
have an' occasion to use such articles, may know that " good 
whisky" ought to be afi"orded at less than $4 per gallon, even if 
$1,30 worth of bitter tonics are put into 3^ barrels of Xhe pre- 
vious stuff. 

Then take our advice where gin or other liquor is needed, as 
mentioned in the first recipe in the Medical Department 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 



I would give an introductory word of Caution in this 
I>epartment. 

Whenever you buy an article of medicine which is not 
regularly labeled by the Druggist, have him, m all cases, 
icrite the name upon it. In this way you will not only save 
money, but perhaps life. Arsenic, phosphorus, laudanum, 
acids, &c., should always be put where ch.ldren cannot get 
at them. And always purchase the best quality of drugs to 
insure success. 

ALCOHOL — In Medicines, Preferable to Brandy, 
Rum, or Gin, of the Present Day. -There is no one 
thing doing so much to bolster up the tottering yet strong 
tower of Intemperance, as the old Pogy Physicians, who 
are constantly prescribing these articles to their patients, 



76 DR. chase's recipes. 

and one-half of the reason for it is to cover the faults o^ 
their own constant use of these beverages. This unneces- 
sary call for these articles thus used as a msdicine, keeps up 
■d large demand ; and when we take into consideration the 
almost impossibility of obtaining a genuine article, the sin 
)i' prescribing them becomes so much the greater, when it 
is also known by all really scientific men that with alcohol 
(vyhich is pure) and the native fruit wines, cider, and cidei 
wines, (which every one can make for themselves, and can 
thus know their purity,) that all the indications desired to 
be fulfilled in curing disease can be accomplished without 
their use. 

Then, when it is deemed advisable to use spirits to preserve 
any bitters or syrups from souring, instead of 1 qt. of brandy, 
rum or gin, use the best alcohol i pt., with about 2 or 3 ozs. of 
crushed sugar for this amount, increasing or lessening according 
to the amount desired in these proportions. If a diuretic effect 
is desired, which is calculated to arise where gin is prescribed, 
put 1 dr. of oil of juniper into the acohol before reducing with 
the water; or if the preparation admits of it you may put in 
from 1 to 2 ozs. of juniper berries instead of tlie oil. If the as- 
tringent effect is desired, as from brandy, use, say, J oz. of gum 
kino or catecliu, either, or a half of each may be usfd. If llie 
sireating or opening properties are required, as indicated by the 
prescription of rum, sweeten with molasses in place of the su- 
gar, and use 1 dr. of oil of carraway, or 1 to 2 ozs. of the seed 
for the above amount, as the.iuniper berries for gin. 

If the strength of wine on.y is desired, use 1 qt. of the ginger 
wine, or if that davor is no! fancied, use any other of Uie wines 
as preferred by the patient 

Bui no one should use any of the descriptions of aWhol as » 
constant beverage, even in medicine, unless advised to do so by 
a physician w?w is not hiimelf a taper. 

If families will follow the directions above gi'V'en, and 
use proper care in making some of the various fruit wines 
as given in this book for medical use, preparing ruder, &c., 
which is often u.-ed in prescriptions, they would sfddom, if 
ever, be obliged to call for the pretended pure brandies, 
rums, gins, &c., of commerce, and intemperance would die 
a natural death for want of support. 

And you will please allow me here to correct a common 
error, with regard to the presence of alcohol in wines. It 
is generally supposed that wine made from fruit, without 
putting Bome kind of spirits into it, does not contaiu any 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 77 

■Joohol ; but a greater mistake does not exist in the world. 
Any fruit, the juice of which will not pass into the vinous 
fermentation by which alcohol is produced, will not make 
wine at all ; distillation will produce brandy or alcohol from 
any of these fermented liquors. 

There is no wine, of any note, containing less than 10 parts 
of alcohol to 100 parts of the wine ; and from that amount up 
U) 25i parts; currant 20^; gooseberry 1 If ; cider from 5 to 9 
parts ; porter 4^ ; even small beer 1 J paits or qts. to 100 qts.. 

So it will be seen that every quart of fruit wine not made 
for medicine, or sacramental purposes, helps to build up the 
cauBC (intemperance) which we all so much desire not to 
BQCOurage. And for those who take any kind of spirits for 
fc'.ie sake of the spirit, let me give you the following : 

2. " Spiritual Facts. — That whis-key is the kei/ by 
waich many gain entrance into our prisons and almshouses. 

3. That hrandy branch the noses of all those who can- 
tK -t govern their appetites. 

4. That punch is the cause of many wnfriendly punches. 

5. That ale causes many ailings, while beer brings to tho 

6. That wine causes many to take a winding way home. 

7. That cAaw-pagne is the source of many real pains. 

8. llhaX gin slings have '■'^ sleiced" more than slings o* 
o. I." 

\GUE MEDICINES.— Dr. Krieder's Pills.— Quinine 20 
gia. ; Dover's powders 10 gi^s. ; sub-carbonate of iron 10 grs. ; mix 
with mucilage of gum arable and fonn into 20 pills. Dose- 
Two, each hour, commencing 5 hours before the chUl should set 
m. Then take one night and morning, until all are taken. 

I cured myself of Ague with this pill after having it hang 
on to me for three years with all the common remedies of 
the day, five weeks being the longest I could keep it off, 
until I obtained the above pill. This was before I had 
studied medicine. I have cured many others with it also, 
never having to repeat the dose only in one case. 

In attacks of Ague, it is best to take an active cathartic 
immediately after the first ' fit,' unless the bowels are lax, 
which is not generally the case, and by the time the cathar- 
tic has worked oif well, you will be prepared to go ahead 
with the ' cure ' as soon as you know ita periodical return 



78 DB. CHASIi'S RECIPES. 

2. For very young children, nothing is better tlian 5 or 6 grB. 
of quinine in a 2 oz. vial with 1 table-spoon of white sugar, 
then fill with water. Dosb — a tea-spoon given as above, as tc 
time. A thick solution of licorice, however, hides the taste of 
the quinine quite effectually. 

3. Ague Bitters. — Quinine 40 grs. ; capsicum 20 grs. ; cloves 
J oz. ; cream of tartar 1 oz. ; whisky 1 pt. ; Mix. Dose — 1 to 3 
table-spoons every 2 hours, beginning 8 hours before the chili 
comes on, and 3 times daily for several days. Or, if preferred 
without spirits, take the following : 

4. Ague Powdek. — Quinine 10 grs. ; capsicum 4 grs. ; mix 
and divide into 3 powders. Directions — Take one 4 hours be- 
fore the chill, one 2 hours, and the third 1 hour before the chill 
sJiould commence, and it will very seldom commence again. Or 

5. Ague Mixture without Quinine. — Mrs. Wads- 
worth, a few miles south of this city, haa been using tlie fol- 
lowing Ague mixture over twenty years, curing, she says, 
more than forty cases, without a failure. She takes — 

Mandrake root, fresh dug, and pounds it ; then sqeezes out 
the juice, to obtain 1^ table-spoons, with which she mixes the 
same quantity of molasses, is dividing into 3 equal doses of 1 ta- 
ble-spoon each, to be given 2 hours apart, commencing so as to 
take all an hour before the chill. 

It sickens and vomits some, but she says, it will scarcely 
ever need repeating. Then steep dog-wood bark, (some 
call it box-wood,) make it strong, and continue to drink it 
freely for a week or two, at least. 

6. Ague Cure, by a Clairvoyant. — There is no doubt 
in my mind but what there is much virtue in the following 
clairvoyant prescription, for I have knowledge of the value 
of one of the roots." See Cholic remedy : 

Blue vervain, leaf and top, 1 lb. ; bone-set J lb. ; best rye 
whisky 1 gal. 

The dose was not gi\en, but most persons would take « 
wine glass five or six times daily. 

7. Ague Cured for a Penny. — It has been discovered 
that nitric acid is of great value in the treatment of Inter- 
mittent Fever, or Ague. A physician administered the arti- 
cle in twenty-three cases of such fever, and it was succesafuJ 
in all but one, in interrupting the paroxysms, and there oo- 
ourred no relapse. 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 79 

In the majority of cases, 5 or 6 drops of the strong acid, given 
ID a little gum mucilage, every 2 hours, until 60 drops had been 
tbken, were found sufficient to break the fever, and restore the 
patient to health. The foregoing confirms the following : 

8. AatnE Anodyne. — Muriatic acid and laudanum, of each I 
oz. ; quinine 40 grs. ; brandy 4 ozs. Take 1 tea-spoon 9, 6, and ? 
hours before the chill, until broken ; then at 7, 14, and 21 dayn 
after, take 3 doses, and no relapse will be likely to occur. 

I am well satisfied that any preparation of opium, as lau- 
danum, morphine, &c., which effect the nerves, are valuable 
in ague medicine, from its intimate connection with, if not 
entirely confined to, the nervous system; hence the advan- 
tage of the first Ague pill, the opium being in the Dover's 
powder. 

I have given this large number of preparatioiis, and fol- 
low with one or two more, from the fact that almost every 
physician will have a peculiar prescription of his own, and 
are generally free to contribute their mite for the benefit of 
the world ; and aa I have seen about as much of it as most 
book-makers, I have come in for a large share. The nature 
of the articles recommended are such also as to justify their 
insertion in this work. 

9. Pebrifugei Wine. — Quinine 25 grs.; water 1 pt.; sul- 
phuric acid 15 drops ; epsom salts 3 oz. ; brandy 1 gill ; loaf su- 
gar 2 ozs. ; color with tincture of red sanders. Dose. — a wine- 
glass 3 times per day. 

This is highly recommended by a regular practicing phy- 
sician, in one of the ague holes (Saginaw) of the west. It, 
of course, can be taken without any previous preparation of 
the system. 

10. Tonic Wine Tincttjiie. — A positive cure for Ague with- 
out quinine. Peruvian bark 2 ozs. ; wild cherry tree bark 1 oz ; 
cinnamon 1 dr. ; capsicum 1 tea-spoon ; sulphur 1 oz. ; port 
wine 2 qts. Let stand a week, shaking occasionally. All the 
articles are to be pulverized. Dose — A wine-glass every 2 or 
8 hovu-3 through the day until broken, then 2 or 3 times per day 
until all is used. 

Always buy your Peruvian bark, and pulverize it your- 
•elf, as most of the pulverized article is greatly adulterated. 
This is the reason why more cures are not perfermed by it 

11. Soot Coffee — Has cured many cases of ague, after 
" everything else " had failed ; it is made as follows : 



BO DR. CilASrC ^<!iCIP£8. 

Soot scraped from a chimney, (that from stove pipea dnes not 
do,) 1 table-spoon, steeped in -water 1 pt., and settled with 1 egg 
beaten up in a little water, as for other coffee, with svirar and 
cream, 3 times daily with the meals, in place of other coffee. 

It has come in very much to aid restoration in Typhoid 
Fever, bad cases of Jaundice, Dyspepsia, &c., &c. 

Many persons will stick up their noses at these " Old 
(jirandmother prescriptions," but I tell many " upstart Phy- 
sicians " that our grandmothers are carrying more informa- 
tion out of the world by their deaths, than will ever be pos- 
sessed by this class of " sniffers," and 1 really thank God, 
80 do thousands of others, that He has enabled me^ in this 
work, to reclaim such an amount of it for the benefit of the 
world. 

12. BalmOny J of a pint basin of loose leaves, fill with boiling 
water and steep ; drink the whole in the course of the day, and 
repeat 3 or 4 day?, or until well. 

It has cured many cases of Ague. It is valuable in Jaun- 
dice, and all diseases of the Liver ; and also for worms, bj 
the mouth and by injection. It Is also valuable in Dyspep- 
sia, Inflammatory, and Febrile diseases, generally. 

NIGHT SWEATS.— To Releive.— After Agues, Fe 
vers, &c., and in Consumption, many persons are troubled 
with " Night Sweats j" they are caused by weakness or gen- 
eral debility. For its relief : 

Take Ess. of tansy \ oz. ; alcohol J o"^ ; water i oz. ; quinine 
15 grs. ; muriatic acid 30 drops ; mix. Dose — 1 tea-spoon, in a 
gill of cold sage tea. 

It should be taken two or three times during the day, and 
at bed time ; and the cold sage toa should be used freely aa 
a drink, also, until cured. It will even cure Ague, also, by 
repeating the above dose every hour, beginning twelve tc 
fifteen hours before the chill. 

Fevers — General Improved Treatment ^ob Bil- 
ious, Typhoid, and Scarlet Fevers, Congestive- 
Chills, &c. Also Valuable in Diarrhea, Summer- 
Complaint, Cholera-Infantum, and all Forms oi 
Fever in Children. — The symptoms of Fever are gener- 
ally understood, yet I will give the characteristic features 
by which it will always be detected : cold chills, followed bj 



I 



MEPlCAii DEl'ARTMENT. 81 

a hot skin ; a quickened pulse, with a weak and languid feel- 
ing of distress ; also, loss of appetite, thirst, restlessness, 
Bcanty excretions ; in fact, every function of the body is 
more or less deranged. Of course, then, that which will 
restore all the different machinery to healthy action, will 
restore health. That is what the following febrifuge has 
done in hundreds of cases — so attested to by " Old Doctor 
Cone," from whose work on " Fevers and Febrile Diseases," 
I first obtained the outlines of the treatment, and it gives 
me pleasure to acknowledge my indebtedness to him through 
fourteen years of neighborhood acquaintance, always finding 
him as willing to communicate, as qualified to practice, and 
daring, in breaking away from " Medical Society Rules," t* 
accomplish good. 

Febkifuge for Fevers in General.— Carbonate of ammo 
nia 2 clrs. ; alum 1 dr. ; capsicum, foreign gentian, Colombo root, 
and Prussiate of iron, all pulverized, of each, i dr. ; mix, Iv put- 
ting into a bottle, adding cold water 4 ozs. Dose — One tea-spoon 
to a grown person, every 2 hours, in common cases of fever. It 
may be sweetened if preferred. Shake well each time before 
giving, and keep the bottle tightly corked. 

The philosophy of this treatment is, the carbonate of am- 
monia neutralizes the acidity of the stomach, and determines 
to, and relaxes the surface ; and with the capsicum is a hun- 
dred per cent more efficient. The alum constringes, soothes, 
and aids in relieving the irritated and engorged mucous mem- 
brane of the stomach, and finally operates as a gentle laxa- 
tive. The Colombo and gentian are gently astringent am 
stimulating, but chiefly tonic, and the Prussiate of iron is 
tonic ; and in their combination are, (as experience will and 
has proved) the most efficient and safe Febrifuge, in all forma 
and grades of fever, yet known. We therefore wish to 
sf-?te that, after twenty-five years' experience in the treat- 
unut of disease, we have not been able to obtain a know- 
Iftdse of any course of treatment that will begin to compare 
with that given above, for the certain, speedy, and effectual 
cure of all forms of fever ; and all that is requisite. Is, to 
liave sufficient confidence in the course of treatment recom- 
mended ; to use it from three to five, and in extreme eases, 
seven days, as directed, and that confidence will be inspired 
io all who use it, whether Physician (if unprejudiced) or 

-OQ^Y RIOHT SECURED. 



82 DR. OHASS'S RECIPES. 

patient, or the heads of families ; remember all processes in 
nature require time for their accomplishment. 

After the patient has been twonty-four hours without 
fever, or if the patient be pale, blanched, -with a cool but 
face and feeble pulse, at the commencement of fever, pre- 
pare the following : 

3. Febrifugh Tea. — Take Virginia snake root and valerian 
root, of each 2 drs. ; boiling water 1 pt. Pour the boiling water 
on the roots and steep i an hour, and give a tea-spoon of the 
Febrifuge and a table-spoon of this Tea together, every 2 hours, 
and after he has been another 24 hours without fever, give it 
every 3 or 4 hours, imtil the patient has good appetite and diges- 
tion, then 3 times daily, just before meals, until the patient nas 
gained considerable strength, when it may be entirely discon- 
tinued ; or he may continue the simple infusion to aid digestion. 

A strong tea of wild cherry bark makes the best substi- 
tute for the snake root tea, and especially if mercury has 
been previously used in the case, and If it has, it is best to 
continue the cherry bark tea until the patient is entirely re- 
eovered. 

A patient using this treatment, if bilious, may vomit bile 
a few times, or if there is conjestion of the stomach, he wil; 
probably vomit occasionally for a few hours, but it will soon 
subside. It will not purge, except a patient be very bilious, 
in which case there will probably be two or three bilious dis- 
charges ; but it gives so much tone to the action of tl. e 
stomach and bowels as to secure regular operations : but if 
the bowels should not be moved in two or three days, give 
injections of warm water, or warm water with a little salt 
in it. 

Give the patient all the plain, wholesome diet, of any 
kind, he will take, espcially broiled ham, mush and rich 
milk, boiled rice, milk or dry toast, hot mealy potatoes, boil- 
ed or roasted, with good fresh butter, &c., &c. ; and good, 
pure, cold water, or tea and coffee, seasoned to the taste, aa 
drinks, and keep the person and bed clean, and room quiet 
and undisturbed by conversation, or any other noise, and see 
that it is well ventilated. 

If there should be extreme pain in the head when the 
fever is at the highest, or in the back or loins, and delirium 
at night, with intolerance of light and noise j in such cases. 



• MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 83 

in addition to keeping the room cool, dark and quiet, and 
giving the febrifuge regularly, as above directed, take the 
following : 

8. Fevek Liniment. — Sulphuric ether and aqua ammonia, of 
each 1 oz ; muriate of ammonia i oz. ; mix, and shake the hot 
tie, and wet the scalp and all painful parts, every 2 or 3 houiB, 
until the pain abates. Keep tightly corked. 

After the application of the liniment, fold a muslin cloth 

four or five thicknesses, dip it in cold water, and apply it 

to the head or any part afflicted with severe pain ; or to tha 

it of the stomach, if there be much vomiting ; and it may 

e renewed every three or four hours. 

Besides the above treatment, dip a towel in cold water, 
and rub the patient off briskly and thoroughly, and be care- 
ful to wipe perfectly dry, with a clean, hot and dry towel j 
this may be repeated every three or four hours, if the skin 
be very hot and dry ; but if the surface be pale, cool, moist, 
livid, or lead- colored, omit the general sponging ; but tha 
face, neck and hands may be washed occasionally, but be 
sure to wipe perfectly dry with a clean, hot and dry towel. 
But if he be very pale and blanched, with a cool or cold- 
surface, or have a white circle around his mouth and nose, 
or be covered with a cold, clammy perspiration, give the 
Febrifuge every hour, until the above symptoms disappear, 
giving the patient hot coffee or tea, pennyroyal, sage, balm, 
or mint tea, as hot as he can sup them, and as freely as pos- 
sible, and make hot applications to his person, and put a 
bottle of hot water to the soles of his feet ; and after this 
tendency to prostration is overcome, then give the Febrifuge 
once in two hours as before only. 

Children will use the medicine in all respects as directed 
for grown persons, giving to a child one year old a fourth of 
a tea-spoon, or fifteen drops ; if under a year old, a little less, 
(we have frequently arrested Cholera Infantum with the Feb- 
rifuge, in children under six months old, and in some in- 
stances under a month old,) and increase the dose in propor- 
tion to the age above a year old, giving half a tea-spoon to 
a child from three to six, and three-fourths of a tea-spoon 
from six to ten years, old and so on ; and be sure to offef 
children some food several times a day, the best of which is 
broiled smoked ham, good stale wheat bread boiled in good 



84 , DR. CHASa'fl EECIPK8. 

a 

rich milk, mush and milk, boiled rice, etc. ; but animal diet 
agrees best, and especially in cases of Summer Complaint, or 
Cholera Infantum, the diet had better be almost exclusively 
animal. It will be difficult to use tho infusion of snake root 
with children that are too young to obey the mandate of 
parents, and the Febrifuge may be made sweet, with white or 
loaf sugar, for young children, so as to cover its tasce as 
much as possible, but older children will be benefited very 
much by the use of thf infusion of snake root and valerian, 
and should take it as prescribed for adults, of course adapt 
ing the dose to the age of the patient. 

4. Note. — The above treatment, if persevered in for a abort 
time, is effectual in arresting Diarrhea, Summer Complaint, Chol- 
era Infantum, and all forms of Fever in children. Give it every 
two hours, or if the patient be very feeble and corpse-like, give 
it every hour until there is reaction, and then give it every two 
hours, as prescribed for fever in general, and you 'will be satis* 
fled with the result after a short time. 

5. Typhoid Fever. — If the patient be Typhoid, that is, 
if his tongue be brown or black, and dry in the centre, with 
glossy red edges ; if he have Diarrhea, with thin, watery, or 
muddy stools, and a tumid or swollen belly, he will probably 
have a rapid, or frequent, and small pulse, and be delirious 
and rest but little at night j under these circumstances, give 
the Febrifuge in the Tea, No. 2, as for fevers in general, 
every two hours, and give, also, the following : 

6. Febrtfugk Balsam. — Gum camphor 30 grs. ; t-vlsam co- 
paiba, sweet spirits of nitre, compound spirits of lav-nder, of 
each 4 oz. 

Shake the vial, and give forty drops every four hours, in 
mth the other medicine, until the tongue becomes moist, 
and the Diarrhea is pretty well subdued, when you will dis- 
continue this preparation, and continue the Febrifuge and 
snake root tea, as directed for fever in general. 

Note. — We do not believe that one case of feverinathnusund 
will develope Typhoid symptoms, unless such cases have b^eu in- 
jured in the treatment of the first stage, by a reducing coiu^e oi' 
medicine, as bleeding, vomiting, especially emetic tartar, purg- 
ing, especially with calomel, and compound extract of colocynth 
or oil, salts, or infusion of senna, and the common cooling pow- 
der, which is composed of saltpetre or nitre, and tartar emetic 
or ipecac, all of which irritate the mucous membrane of the 



MEDICAL DEPABTMENT. S5 

rfomach and bowels, and consequently produce determinatioa 
itf blood to these parts, that results in irritation, engorgement, 
iongestion, inflammation, and consequently Typhoid Fever. 

Tf fever is attended witli the Dysentery, or Bloody Flux, it 
jhould be treated in the same manner precisely as Typhoid 
Fever, as it is nothing but Typhoid Fever with inflammation 
of the large, and sometimes small bowels. The treatment 
given for Typhoid Fever above, will cure all forms of Dyseu 
tery as it does fever, but the bloody and slimy discharges 
trill continue for two or three days after the fever is sub- 
dued and the appetite and digestion are restored, and at 
times, especially if the patient discharge bile, which will be 
green, there will be a good deal of pain at stool, which, how- 
ever, will soon subside. 

7. Scarlet Fever. — If you have Scarlet Fever, treat it 
in all respects as fever in general, and if the patient's throat 
should show any indications of swelling, apply the Fever- 
Liniment No. 3, and make the application of cold water in 
the same manner as there directed ; and it had better be re- 
oeated every three or four hours until the swelling is entire- 
ly subdued, when the wet cloth should be substituted by a 
warm, dry, flannel one ; but if the patient's throat should 
aicerate, give a few drops of the Febrifuge every half hour, 
or hour, until the dark sloughs separate, and the throat looks 
red and .clean, when you need only give the medicine at regu- 
lar intervals, as recommended for fever in general, that is, 
every two hours. If this treatment be pursued at the onset, 
the throat will seldom, if ever, ulcerate. 

8. Congestive, or Sinking Chill. — In case of Conges • 
tive, or Sinking Chill, give the Febrifuge as directed for fever 
in general ; but if the patient be insensible and cold, or 
drenched in a cold perspiration, give the Febrifuge in a table- 
spoon of the snake root and valerian tea every hour until the 
patient becomes warm, and then give it every two hours to 
within twelve hours of the time he anticipates another chill, 
when you will give the following 

9. Stimulating Torac. — Sulphate of quinine 20 grs. ; pulver- 
ized capsicum 30 grs. ; pulverized carbonate of ammonia 90 grs. ; 
mix and put into a bottle, and add 15 tea-spoons of cold water, 
and give a toa-spoon, together with a tea-spoon of the Febrifuge, 



86 DR. chasb's recifeb. 

every hour, either alone, or what is better, in a tea-spoon of th« 
enake root and valerian tea, for 15 hours. 

The patient should lie in bed and drink fteely of penny- 
royal tea, or hot coffee, or some other hot tea, and after the 
time has elapsed for the chill, give the same as for fever in 
general, until the patient is entirely recovered. ITie abova 
treatment will arrest any form of Ague, and the after treat 
ment will, with any degree of care, prevent its return. Or 
the Ague may be arrested most speedily, by taking one grai« 
of quinine in a tea-spoon of the Febrifuge every hour for 
six hours preceeding a paroxysm, and then pursue the abor« 
tonic course. 

I have given the foregoing treatment for fevers, because 
1 know that it is applicable in all cases, and that the articles 
are kept by all druggists. But there is a better, because 
quicker method of cure, and I am very sorry to say thai; for 
want of knowledge, in regard to the value of the medicine-, 
it is not usually kept by Druggists. I mean the Tincture 
of Gelseminum. It is an unrivaled Febrifuge. It relaxes 
the system without permanent j)iOstration of strength. Its 
tpecific action is to cloud the vision, give double-sightedness 
and inability to open the eyes, with distressed prostration; 
which will gradually pass off in a few hoars, leaving the pa- 
tient refreshed, and if combined with quinine, completely 
restored. To administer it : 

10. Take the tincture of gelseminum 50 drops, put into a vial, 
and add 5 tea-spoons of water ; quinine 10 ^. Suake when 
used. Dose — One tea-spoon in half a glass ot sweetened water, 
and repeat every 2 hours. 

Watch carefully its action, and as soon as you dis<»over ita 
specific action as mentioned above, give no more. 

Dr. Hale, of this city, one of the more liberal class of 
physicians, (and I use the term, liberal, as synonymous with 
the term, successful,) prefers to add twenty-five drops of the 
tincture of veratrum viride with the gelseminum, and give 
as there directed. And in case that their full specific ac- 
tion should be brought on, give a few spoons of brandy, to 
raise the patient from his stupor, or what is preferable : 

11. Carbonate of ammonia I oz. ; water 4 ozs. ; mix. DosK— 
one table-spoon every 15 or 20 minutes, untU revived. 

If Dr. Hale's addition should be used, it will be fonixd 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 87 

applicable in all cases of fever, except in Typhoid accompan- 
ied with its own excessive prostration ; without the additiot 
of the veratrum it is applicable in all cases of fevers above 
described. Of course, in all cases where the fever is thus 
subdued, you will continue quinine, or some other appropri 
ate tonic treatment, to perfect a cure, and prevent a relapse. 
And it might not be amiss here to give a plan of preparing 
\ nourishing and agreeable lemonade for the sick, and espec 
ially for persons afflicted with fever : 

12. Lemonade, NouHisHiKa, Fon Fevek Patients. — Aitow- 
root 2 or 3 tea-spoons rubbed up with a little cold water, in a 
bowl or pitcher, which will hold about 1 qt. ; then squeeze in 
the juice of half of a good sized lemon, with 2 or 3 table-spoons 
of white sugar, and pour on boiling water to fill the dish, con- 
stantly stirring whilst adding the boiling water. 

Cover the dish, and when cold, it may be freely drank to 
allay thirst, as also to nourish the weak, but some will pre- 
fer the following : 

13. Prop. Hufeland's Drink for Fever Patients or 
Excessive Thirst. — Cream of tartar i oz. ; water 3 qts. ; boil 
until dissolved ; after taking it from the fire add a sliced orange 
witli from li to 3 ozs. of white sugar, according to the taste of 
the patient ; bottle and keep cool. 

To be used for a common drink in fevers of all grades, 
and at any time when a large amount of drink is craved by 
iiic invalid. Neither is there any bad taste to it for those 
i'i heaSth, 

UTERINE HEMORRHAGES.-Pbof. Piatt's Treatment 
Twenty Years Without a Failure. — Sugar of lead 10 grs. ; 
ergot 10 grs. ; (>pium 3 gre. ; epicac 1 gr. ; all pulverized and 
well mixed. Dose — 10 to 13 grs., given in a little honey or 
Byrup. 

In very bad cases after child-birth, it might be repeated 
in thirty minutes, or the dose increased to fifteen or eigh- 
teen grains ; but in cases of rather profuse wasting, repeat 
it once at the end of three hours, will usually be found all 
that is necessary, if not, repeat occasionally as the urgency 
of the case may seem to require. 

Prof. Piatt is connected with Antioch College, 0., and 
has been a very successful practitioner. 

DYSPEPSIA.— In the good old days of corn bread and 



tfb i>R. cumsx'b reoipxs. 

erust coflfee, there was but little trouble with Dyspepsia • 
but since the days of fashionable intemperance, both in 
eating and drinking, such as spirituous liquors, wines, beers, 
ale, tea, and coffee, hot bread or biscuit, high seasoned food, 
over-loading the stomach at meals, and constant eating and 
drinking between meals, bolting the food, as called, that is, 
twallowing it without properly chewing, excessive venery, 
want of out door exercise, with great anxiety of mind as to 
bow the means can be made to continue the same indulgen- 
ees, &c., all have a tendency to debilitate the stomach, and 
bring on, or cause, Dyspepsia. 

And it would seem to the Author that the simple state 
ment of its cause — the truth of which no one can reason 
ably doubt — would be sufficient to. at least, suggest its cure 
But I am willing to state, that, as a general thing, this over- 
indulgence would not be continued, nor would it have been 
allowed, had they known its awful consequences. I know 
that this was true in my own case, in all its points ; this 
was, of course, before I had studied, or knew but little, of 
the power of the human system, or the practice of medi- 
cine, and it was for the purpose of finding something to 
cure myself, that I commenced its study ; for it was by 
years of over-indulgence at table, and between meals, in the 
grocery business which I was carrying on, that I brought on 
such a condition of the stomach that eating gave me the 
most intolerable suffering — a feeling almost impossible to 
describe j first a feeling of goneness or want of support at 
the stomach, heat, lassitude, and fiaally pain, until a thou- 
sand deaths would have been a great relief; drink was 
craved, and the more I drark the more intolerable the suf- 
fering — apple cider, vinegar and water made palatable with 
sugar, excepted. It might be asked at this point, what did 
I do ? I would ask, what could I do ? Eat, I could not, 
drink I could not ; then what else was to be done, only, to 
do without either. What, starve ? No. 

Treatment. — Take, — no, just stop taking " Throw all 
medicine to the dogs" — yes, and food also. What, sUrve ? 
No, but simply get liungrn/ ; whoever heard of a dyspeptic 
being hungry? at least, those who eat three meals a day. 
They eat because the victuals taste good — mouth-hunger, 
only. 



MEDICAL DEPARTMKN^T. S9 

The last year or t.wo of my dyspeptic life, I only ate be- 
cause it w;i3 eating tsme, and supposed I must eat or die, 
when I ouly died forty deaths, by eating. 

All physicians whose books I have read, and all whose 
prescriptions I have obtained, say : " Eat little and often ; 
^rink little and often." I say eat a little, and at the right 
time, that is, when hungry at the stomach j drink a little, 
and ac the right time, that is, after digestion, and it is of 
j 6t as much importance to eat and drink the right thing, 
as at the r ^ht timd. 

Persons have been so low in Dyspepsia, that even ona 
tea-spoon of food on the stomach would not rest ; in such 
cases, let nothing be taken by mouth for several days ; bu* 
inject gruel, rice water, rich broths, &c. ; but these cases 
occur very seldom. • 

First. — Then, with ordinary cases, if there is much heat 
of the stomach, at bed time, wet a towel in cold water, 
wringing it out that it may not drip, and lay it over the 
stomach, having a piece of flannel over it to prevent wet- 
ting the clothes. This will soon allay the heat, but keep it 
OP during the night, and at any subsequent time, as may be 
needed. 

Second. — In the morning, if you have been in the habit 
of eating about two large potatoes, two pieces of steak, two 
slices of bread, or from four to six hot pancakes, or two to 
four hot biscuits, and drinking one to three cups of tea or 
foffee, — hold, hold, you cry; no, let me go on. I have 
nany times seen all these eaten, with butter, honey, or mo- 
iASses, too large in amount to be mentioned, with a taste of 
every other thing on the table, such as cucumbers, tomatoes, 
&c., &c., and all by dyspeptics ; but, 

You will stop this morning on half of one potato, two 
inches square of steak, and half of one slice of cold, wheat 
bread — or I prefer, if it will agree with you, that you use 
the " Yankee Brown Bread," only the same quantity ; eat 
very slow, chew perfectly fine, and swalloio it witlioiit wa- 
ter, tea, or coffee ; neither must you drink any, not a drop, 
until one hour before meal-time again, then as little as pos- 
sible, so as ygu think not quite to choke to death. 

Third. — The question now to be settled is, did you suffer 
from the abundance of your breakfast, or from the kind of 



90 DB. OHAS£'S BSCIFSS. 

food taken? If you did, take less next time, or cliai»<« 
the kind, and so continue to lessen the quantity, or chai»^e 
the kind until you ascertain the proper quantity and kind 
which enables you to overcome this exceeding suffering 
after meals ; nay, more, which leaves you perfectly comfortr 
able after meals. 

Lastly — You now have the whole secret of curing the 
worst case of dyspepsia in the world You will, however, 
bear in mind that years have been spent in indulgence ; do 
not therefore expect to cure it in days, nay, it will take 
months, possibly a whole year of self-denial, watchfulness 
and care : and even then, one over loading of the stomach 
at a Christmas pudding will set you back again for motiths. 
Make up your mind to eat only simple food, and that, in 
small quantities, notwithstanding an over-anxious wife, or 
other friend, will say, now do try a little of this nice pie, 
pudding, or other dish, no matter what it may be. Oh ! 
now do have a cup of this nice coffee, they will often ask j 
but 710, NO, must be the invariable answer, or you are again 
a " goner." For there is hardly any disease equally liablfl 
to relapse as dyspepsia ; and indulgence in a variety of food, 
or over-eating any one kind, or even watery vegetables or 
fruit, will be almost certain to make the patient pay dear foi 
the whistle. 

Then you must eat only such food ar you know to agree 
with you, and in just as small quantities as will keep you in 
health. Drink no fluids until digestion is over, or about 
four hours after eating, until the stomach has become a little 
strong, or toned up to bear it, then one cup of the " Dyspep- 
sia Coffee," or one cup of the " Coffee Made Healthy," ma-s 
be used. But more difficulty is experionced from ovor- 
drinking, than over-eating. Most positively must Dvspept'cs 
avoid cold water with their meals. If the saliva and gastrio 
juice are diluted with an abundance of any fluid, they nerer 
have the same properties to aid, or carry on digestion, which 
they had before dilution ; then the only hope of the DyS' 
peptic is to use no fluid with his food, nor until digestion 
has had her perfect work. 

Caution. — I may be allowed to, give a word of csiutioft 
to Mothers, as well as to all others. One plate of food is 



i 



MEDICAL DEPABTSneKT 91 



ATKMgli for health — two, and even three, are often eaten. 
Most persons have heard of the lady who did not want a 
^' cart load," but when she got to eating, it all disappeared, 
and the retort, " Back up yo\ir cart and I will load it again," 
was /ust what I would have expected to hear if the load had 
beeti given to a Dyspeptic, which it no doubt was ; then 
learix the proper amount of food necessary for health, and 
wheu that is eaten, by yourself or child, stop. If pudding 
is on the table and you choose to have a little of it, it is all 
right -have some pudding ; if pie, have a piece of pie ; or 
cake, have a piece of cake ; but do not have all, and that 
after you have eaten twice as much meat victuals as health 
requires. If apples, melons, raisins or nuts aie on the table, 
and yoa wish some of them, eat them before meal, and never 
after iij if surprise is manifested around you, say you eat 
to live, not live to eat. The reason for this is, that persona 
will eai> all they need, and often more, of common food, then 
eat nuts, raisins, melons, &c., until the stomach is not only 
filkot beyond comfort, but actually distended to its utmost 
capacity of endurance ; being led on by the taste, when if 
the reverse course was taken, the stomach becomes satisfied 
when a proper amount of the more common food has been 
eaten, atter the othei-s. 

Are you a Grocer, and constantly nibbling at raisins, candy, 
cheese, apples, and every other edible ? Stop, until just be- 
fore meal, then eat what you like, go to your meal, and re- 
turn, not touching again until meal-time, and you are safe ; 
continue the nibbling, and you do it at the sacrifice of future 
health. Have you children or other young persons under 
your care 1 See that they eat only a reasonable quantity at 
meals, and not anything between them j do this, and I am 
willing to be called a fool by the younger ones, which I am 
sure to bo , but do it not, and the fool will suffer for his 
folly. 

You may consider me a hard Doctor — be it so then ; the 
drunkard calls him hard names who says give up your 
" cups," but as sure as he would die a drunkard, so sure 
will you die a Dyspeptic unless you give up your over-eating 
tnd over-drinking of water, tea, coffee, wine, beer, ale, &q. 
Now you know the consequences, suit yourselves ; but I . 



Si UK. chabk's recipks. 

have paid too dearly ibr my experience, not to lift a warning 
voice, or gpare the guilty. 

In recent cases, and in cases brought on by over-indul- 
gence, at some extra rich meal, you will find the " Dyspep- 
tic Tea," made from " Thompson's Composition," will be all 
sufficient, as spoken of under that head, which see. 

2. The wild black cherries, put into Jamaica rum, i* 
highly recommended, made very strong with the cherries, 
and without sugar ; but I should say put them into some ot 
the domestic wines, or what would be still better, make a 
wine directly from them, according to directions under th« 
head of " Fruit Wines." 

3. Old " Father Pinkney," a gentleman over 90 years of 
age, assures me that he has cured many bad cases of Dy- 
spepsia, where they would give up their over indulgences, 
by taking : 

Blue flag root, washed clean, and free from specks and rotten 
streaks, then pounding it and putting into a little warm water, 
and straining out the milky juice, and adding suflScient pepper- 
sauce to make it a little hot. Dose — one table-spoon 3 times 
daily. 

It benefits by its action on the liver, and it would be good 
in Liver Complaints, the pepper also stimulating the stomach. 
See " Soot-Cofiee " No. 12, amongst the Ague medicines. 

LARYNGITIS, — Inflammation of the Throat. — 
This complaint, in a chronic form, has become very pre- 
valent, and is a disease which is aggravated by every change 
of weather, more especially in the fall and winter months. 
It is considered, and that justly, a very hard disease to cure, 
but with caution, time, and a rational course of treatment, it 
can be cured. 

The difficulty with most persons is, they think that it is an 
uncommon disease, and consequently they must obtain some 
uncommon preparation to cure it, instead of which, some of 
the more simble remedies, as follows, will cure nearly every 
case, if persevered in a sufficient length of time. First, then, 
take the : 

Alterative for Diseases of the Skln. — Compound tino 
ture of Peruvian bark 6 ozs. ; fluid extract of sarsaparilla 1 ll». ; 
extract of conium i oz. ; iodide of potash, (often called hydrio 
.date) i oz. ; iodine i dr. ; dissolve the extract of conium and thi 



MEDICAL DEPAETMENH. 9b 

powders In a little of the fluid, and mix all. DosB — Two tea- 
spoons 3 times daily, before meals, until all is taken. Shake the 
bottle well before using. 

In the next place, take the : 

2. GARGiiic FOB Sore Throat. — Very strong sage tea i pt. , 
strained honey, common salt, and strong yinegar, of each 2 table- 
spoons ; cayenne, the pulverized, one rounding tea-spoon ; 
steeping the cayenne with the sage, strain, mix, and bottle for 
use, gargling from 4 to a dozen times daily according to the 
severity of tht ease. 

Tllis is one uf the very best gargles in use. By persever- 
ing some three months, I cured a case of two years standing 
where the mouths of the Eustachian tubes constantly dis- 
charged mattei at their openings through the tonsils into the 
patients mouth, he having previously been quite deaf, the 
whole throat being also diseased. I used the preparation for 
** Deafness " albo as mentioned under that head. 

Remembering always to breath through nature's channel 
for the breath, the nose. 

Besides the foregoing, you will wash the whole surface 
twice a week with plenty of the " Toilet Soap," in water, 
wiping dry, then with a coarse dry towel rub the whole sur- 
face for ten minutes at least, and accomplish the coarse towel 
part of it every night and morning until the skin will remain 
through the day with its flushed surface, and genial heat ; 
this draws the blood from the throat and other internal or 
gans^ or in other words, equalizes the circulation ; know, and 
act, upon this fact, and no inflammation can long exist, no 
matter where it is located. Blood accumulates in the part 
inflamed, but let it flow evenly through the whole system, 
and of course there can be no inflammation. 

You will also apply to the throat and breast the follow- 
ing: 

8. Sore Throat Liniment. — Gum camphor 2 ozs. ; castile 
soap, shaved fine, 1 dr. ; oil of turpentine 1 table-spoon ; oil of 
origanum i oz. ; opium i oz. ; alcohol 1 pt. In a week or ten 
davs it will be fit for use, then bathe the parts freely 2 or 3 times 
daily. 

This liniment would be found useful in almost any throat or 
other disease where an outward application might be needed. 
If the foregoing treatment should fail, there is no alternative 



94 DR. CHA8S 8 RKCIFE8. 

but to bring in emetics with the other treatment, and con- 
tinue them for a long time. 

I mention the emetic plan last, from the fact that so many 
people utterly object to the emetic treatment. But when 
everything else fails, that stepss in and saves the patient, 
which goes to show how unjust the prejudice. By the 
phrase, a long time, I mean several weeks, twice daily a< 
first, then once a day, and finally thrice to twice a week, &c 
A part of this course you will see, by the following, is cor 
roborated by the celebrated Lung and Throat Doctor, S. S. 
Fitch, of New York, who says " ft is a skin disease, and that 
purifying medicines are necessary to cleanse the blood- 
taking long, full breaths," &c. This is certainly good sense. 
His treatment of throat diseases is summed up in the fol- 
lowing : 

Note. — " Wear but little clothing around the neck — chew of- 
ten a little nut-gall and swallow the juice — wear a wet cloth 
about the throat at night, having a dry towel over it — bathe free- 
ly all over as in consumption, and especially bathe the throat 
with cold water every morning, also wash out the inside of the 
throat with cold water — avoid crowded rooms — gargle with a 
very weak solution of nitrate of silver — chewing gold thread and 
swallowing the juice and saliva from it — borax and honey occa- 
sionally, and gum arable water, if much irritation — use the 
voice as little as possible until well, also often using a liniment 
externally." 

I had hoped for very much benefit from using croton oil 
externally, but time has shown that the advantage derived 
from it is not sufficient to remunerate for the excessive irri- 
tation caused by its continued application. 

4. Smoking dried mullein leaves in a pipe not having 
been used for tobacco, is said to have cured many cases of 
Laryngitis. And I find in my last Eclectic Medical Jour- 
nal so strtng a corroboration, taken from the Medical and 
Surgical Reporter, of this fact, that I cannot refrain from 
giving tho quotation. It says : " in that form of disease ia 
which there is dryness of the trachea, with a constant desire 
to clear the throat., attended with little expectoration, and 
considerable pain in the part afiected, the mullein smoked 
through a pipe, acts like a charm, and affords instant relief. 
It seems to act as an anodyne in allaying irritation, while it 
promotes expectoration, and removes that gelatinous mucus 



MEDICAL DEPAETMENT. 96_ 

wliioli gathers in the larynx, and, at the same time, by some 
unknown poioer, completely changes the nature of the dia- 
ease, and, if persevered in, will produce a radical cure/' 

We read in a certain place of a gentleman who was walk 
iug around and through a great city, and he came across an 
inscription " To the unknown God " — and directly we find 
him explaining that unknown Being to the astonished in- 
habitants. And I always feel, like this old-fashioned gen- 
tleman, to cry out, upon every convenient occasion, my be- 
lief, that it was that God's great wisdom, seeing what waa 
required, and His exceeding goodness, providing according 
to our necessities, this wonderful, and to some, that unknown 
power in the thousands of plants around us. What matters 
U to us ho*7 it is done ? If the cure is performed, it is suffi 
cient. 

Since the publication of the foregoing, in the ninth edi 
tion, I have been smoking the dried mullein, and recom- 
mending it to others. It has given general satisfaction for 
coughs and as a substitute for tobacco in smoking, exhilera- 
ting the neives, and allaying the hacking coughs from recent 
colds, by bioathing the smoke into the lungs. In one in- 
stance, aftei retiring, I could not rest from an irritation in 
the upper portion of the lungs and throat, frequently hack- 
ing without relief only for a moment ; I arose, filled my pipe 
with mullein, returning to bed I smoked the pipeful, draw- 
ing it into ilie lungs, and did not cough again during the 
night. 

An old gentleman, an inveterate smoker, from my sugges- 
tion, began to mix the mullein with his tobacco, one-fourth 
at first, for awhile j then half, and finally three-fourths ; at 
this point he rested. It satisfied in place of the full amount 
of tobacco, and cured a cough which had been left upon him 
after inflammation of the lungs. The flavor can hardly be 
distinguished from the flavor of tobacco smoke, in rooms. 

It can be gathered any time during the season, the centre 
Btem removed, carefully dried, and rubbed fine, when it is 
ready for use. It gives a pipe the phthysic, as fast as it 
cures one on the patient ; but the clay pipe, which is to be 
osed, can be readily cleansed by burning out. 

Here is the " Substitute for Tobacco " for which the 
French have offered 50,000 francs. 



l»6 DR. chase's recipes. 

It can be made into cigars by using a tobacco-leaf wrapper 
Catarrh is often more or less connected with that disease. 

In Buch cases, in connection with the above treatment, take 

•jeveral times daily of the following : 

Catarrh Snuff. — Scotch snufl 1 oz. ; chloride of lime, dried 
and pulverized 1 rounding tea-spoon ; mix, and bottle, corking 
tightly. 

The snuff has a tendency to aid the secretion from the 
parts J and the chloride corrects unpleasant fetor. ^ 

CANCERS. — To Cure — Method of Dr. Landolfi, 

(Surqeon-Gteneral of the Neapolitan Army) and sev- 
eral Successful American Methods. — The principle 
upon which the treatment is based, consists in transforming 
a tumor of a malignant character, by conferring upon it a 
character of benignity, which admits of cure. This trans- 
formation is effected by cauterization with an agent looked 
upon as a specific, viz : chloride of bromine, combined, oi 
not, with other substances, which have already been tried, 
but have hitherto been employed separately. The inier- 
nal treatment is merely auxiliary. (Cancers may be known 
from other tumors by their shooting, or lancinating pains ; 
and if an open sore, from their great fetor. — Author.) 
The formulas for the caustics are, with the exception of a 
few cases, the following : 

Equal parts of the chlorides of zinc, gold, and antimony, 
mixed with a sufficient quantity of flour to form a viscid paste. 

At Vienna, he used a mixtui'e of the same substances in differ- 
ent proportions, chloride of bromine 3 parts ; chloride of zinc 2 
;aarts ; chloride of gold and antimony, each 1 part ; made into a 
thick paste with powdered licorice root. This preparation 
should be made in an open place, on account of the gases which 
are disengaged. 

The essential element is the chloride of bromine, which has 
often been employed alone ; thus, chloride of bromine from 2i 
to 4 drs., and put licorice root as much as sufficient. 

The ehloride of zinc is indispensable in ulcerated cancers, 
in which it acts as a hemastatic, (stopping blood.) The 
chloride of gold is only useful in cases of encephaloid 
(brain- like) cancers, in which it exercises a special, if not a 
specific action. Cancers of the skin, (epitheliomas,) lupas, 
and small cystosar comas, (watery or bloody tumors,) are 
treated with bromine mixed with baailicon ointment in the 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 97 

proportion of one part of bromine to eight of the ointment ; 
the application should not extend to the healthy parts, it« 
gction being often propagated through a space of one or two 
lines. The paste is only allowed to remain on about twenty- 
four hours J on removing the dressing a line of demarkation 
is almost always found separating the healthy from the mor- 
bid parts. The tumor ia itself in part whitish and part 
reddish, or marbled with yellow and blue. The caustic is 
replaced with the poultice, or with compresses smeared with 
basilicon ointment only, which are to be removed every three 
hours until the scar is detached ; the pain progressively di- 
minishing in proportion as the mortification advances, the 
line ot demarkation daily becomes more evident j about the 
fourth or fifth day the cauterized portion begins to rise, and 
from the eighth to the fifteenth day it becomes detached, or 
can be removed with forceps, and without pain, exposing < 
a suppurating surface, secreting pus of good quality and 
covered with healthy granulations. If any points remain 
of less satisfactory appearance, or present traces of morbid 
growth, a little of the paste is to be again applied, then dres. 
the sore as you would a simple ulcer; if the suppuratioc 
proceeds too slowly, dressit with lint dipped in the following, 
solution : 

Chloride of brorame 20 or 80 drops ; Goulard's Extract from 
I to 2 drs. ; distilled water 16 ozs. 

In the majority of cases healing takes place rapidly, cica- 
trization progressc*3 from the circumference to the center, 
no complications supervene, and the cicatrix (scar,) resem- 
bles that left by a cutting instrument. His internal remedy, 
to prevent a relapse, is, 

Chloride of bromine 2 drops; powder of the seeds of water 
fennel 23 grs. ; extract of hemlock (Conium Maculatum) 12 grs. ; 
mix and divide into 20 pills ; onjs to be taken daily for 2 months, 
and after that, 2 pills daily for a month or two longer, 1 night 
and morning, after meals. 

In any case of Cancer, either the foregoing, internal rem- 
edy, or some of the other Alteratives, should be taken two 
or three weeks before the treatment is commenced, and 
should also be continued for several weeks after its cure. 

2. Dr. H. G. Judkins' Method. — This gentleman, oi 
Malaga, Monroe Co., 0., takes : 

*— Dtt. chase's eeoipeb. 



98 DR. cbask's recipsb. 

Chloride of zinc the size of a hazel nut, and pats enough watei 
TvJlh it to make a thin paste, then mixes with it equal parts of 
flour, and finely pulverized charcoal, sufficient to form a tole- 
rable siifl' paste. 

He spreads this on a soft piece of sheep skin, sufficiently 
largo to cover tlie tumor, and applies every two days until 
it is detached, then dresses it with " Judkins' Ointment," 
which see. Again — 

8. L. S. HoDGKiNs* Method. — This gentleman is a mer- 
chant, of Eeding, Mich. The method is not original with 
him, but he cured his wife with it, of cancer of the hreasi, 
after having been pronounced incurable. Some vrould use 
it because it contains calomel — others would not use it fo! 
the same reason; I give it an insertion from the fact that 1 
am well satisfied that it has cured the disease, and from its 
singularity of composition. 

Take a while oak root and bore out the heart and bum th^ 
chips to get the ashes, i oz. ; lunar caustic i oz. ; calomel J oz. , 
gaits of nilre (salt petre) f oz. ; the body of a thousand-legged 
worm, dried and pulverized, all to be made fine and mixed with 
I lb. of lard. 

Spread this rather thin upon soft leather, and apply to the 
Cancer, changing twice a day j will kill the tumor in three or 
four days, which you will know by the general appearance ; 
then apply a poultice of soaked figs until it comes out, fibres 
and all ; heal with a plaster made by boiling red beech 
leaves in water, straining and boiling thick, then mix with 
beeswax and mutton tallow to form a salve of proper con- 
sistency. To cleanse the system while the above is being 
dsed, and for some time after: 

Take mandrake root, pulverized, 1 oz. ; epsom salts 1 oz. ; put 
Into pure gin 1 pt., and take of this 3 times daily, from 1 tea to 
a table-six)on, as you can bear. He knew of several other curea 
from the same plan. 

4. The juice of pokeberries, set in the sun, upon a pew- 
ter dish, and dried to a consistence of a salve, and applied 
as a plaster, has cured cancer. 

5. Poultices of scraped carrots, and of yellow dock root, 
have both cured, and the scraped carrot poultices, especially, 
not only cleanse the sore, but remove the very offensiv» 
smell or fetor, which is characterittic of canceiB. 



MEDICAL l^EPARTMENT. 99 

6. A gentleman in Ohio cures tliem by making a tea of 
ihe yellovr dock root, and drinking of it freely, washing the 
sore with the same several times daily for several days, then 
poulticing with the root, mashed and applied twice daily, 
even on the tongue. 

7. Rev. C. C. Cuyler, of Poughkeepsie, N. Y., says he 
has kuovFn several cases cured as follows : 

Take the narrow-leaved dock root and boil it in soft watei 
umil very strong, wash the ulcer with this strong decoction 3 
times in tlie 2i hours, fill the cavity also with the same 2 min- 
utt.sj, each lime, ihxin bruise the root, and lay it on gauze, and lay 
the gau'se next to tue ulcer, and wet linen clotlis in the decoction 
and liiy over the poulUce ; and each time let the patient drink a 
wine- glass of the Strom tea of the same root, with ^ of a glass 
oi port wine sweetcnoJ with honey. 

8. Dr. Buchan's wori on Medicine, gives the case of a 
person who had cancer df the tongue, cured in fourteen 
days, as follows : 

Dilute nitric acid 1 oz ; honey 2 ozs. ; pure water 2 pts. ; mix. 
Dose — Three table-spoons frequently; to be sucked past tha 
teeth, through a quill or tube. 

Opium was given at night, simply to keep down pain. 

9. Great English Hembdy — by which a brother of 
Lowell Mason was cured, is as follows : 

Take chloride of zinc, blood-root pulverized, and flour, equal 
quantities of each, worked into a paste and applied until the 
mass comes out, then poultice and treat as a simple sore. 

The Rural New Yorker, in reporting this case, says, in 
applying it, " First spread a common sticking-plaster much 
larger than the cancer, cutting a circular piece from the 
center of it a little larger than the cancer, applying it, which 
exposes a narrow rim of healthy skin ; then apply the can- 
cer piaster and keep it on twenty-four hotirs. On removing 
it, the cancer wi'.l be found to be burned into, and appears 
the color of an old shoe-sole, and the rim outside will ap 
pear white and parboiled, as if burned by steam. 

*^ Dress with slippery-elm poultice until suppuration takes 
place, then heal with any common salve." 

10. Armenian Mkthod. — lu Armenia, a salve, made by boil- 
tag olive oil to a proper consistence for the use, is reported by 
an eastern traveler to have cured very bad ca^es. 



100 |>R- cuase's recipe*. 

11. Figs boiled in new milk until tender, then split and ap 
plied hot — changing twice daily, washing t})C parts every change, 
with some of the milk — diiuking 1 gill of the milk also at 
often. 

And continueing from three to four months, is also re- 
ported to have cured a man ninety-nine years old by using 
only six pounds, whilst ten pound.s cured a cjise of ten jears* 
standing. The first application giving pain, but afterwards 
relief, every application. 

12. Red Oak Bark — A salve from the ashes, has long 
been credited for curing cancer, and as I have recently seen 
the metliod given for preparing and using it, by Isaac Dil- 
lon, of Oregon, published in a paper near him, I cannot 
keep the benefit of it from the public. . The directions were 
sent to him by his father, John Dillon, Sen., of Zanesville, 
O., and, from my knowledge of the Dillon family, I have 
the utmofit confidence in the prescription. It is as follows : 

Take red oak bark ashes 1 peck ; put on to thera, boiling wa- 
ter G qts. ; let it stand 12 hours ; then draw ofl' the ley and boil 
to a thick salve ; spread this, pretty thick, upon a thick cloth a 
little larger than the cancer, and let it remain on 3 houre; if it 
Is too severe, half of that liuie ; the same day, or the next, applj 
a^ain 3 hours, whicli will generally etlect a cure; after the last 
plaster, wa.sh the .soie with warm milk and water; then apply a 
healing salve made of muitou t4illow, bark of elder, with a iittl« 
umn and bees-wax, (some root of while lilly may be added,) 
stewed over a slow lire; when the sore begins to matterale. 
wash it 3 or 4 times daily, renewing the salve each lime; avoid 
slrong diet, and strong drink, but drink a tea of sassafras root 
iiid spice- wuod tops, tor a week before and after the plaster. 

13. Puoip. R. S. Newton, of Cincinnati, uses the chloride 
of zinc, a saturated solution, (as strong as can be made,) or 
makes the chloride into a paste, with thick gum solution. 

In eases of large tumors he often removes the bulk of 
them with a knile, then applies the solution, or paste, as he 
thinks best, to destroy any remaining roots which have been 
sftveied by the knile. 

14. Prof. Calkins, of Philadelphia, prefers a paste made 
firom yellow-dock, red -clover, and poke, using the leaves' only, 
of either article, in equal quantities. 

Boiling, straining, and simmering to a paste, applying 
from time to time, to cancerous growths or tumors, until tlie 
entire mass is destroyed, then poultice and heal as usoa) 



^EUICAL UKPAK'riilURi-. 101 

But Dr. Beach, of N. Y., who is a man of much experi 
fince in cancers, «ays beware ol' the kuife, or any plastej 
whioa ilestroi/H the cancer or tumor ; but first use discutients 
(meaicines wliich have a tendency to drive away swellings,) 
unless already ulcerated, then, mild poultices to keep up a 
dlcciiarge from the ulcer, with alteratives, long continued, 
kebpiag the bowels regular, &c., &c. The Vienna }'Jiysi 
cians, as well as Dr. Beach, allow the inhalation of a few 
drops of chloroform where the pain is excruciating. And i 
would say, apply a little externally, also, around the sore. 

CaiiCwrs should not be disturbed as long as they do not 
grow jof ulcerate, but as soon as either begins, then is the 
time w bey in with them. 



COiSVfVENESS— To Cure.— Costive habits are often 
brought oiTi by neglecting to go to stool at tlie usual nine 
ixix most persons liave a regular daily pas.sage, and the iiulsi 
usual time is at rising in the morning, or immediately aitei 
breakfast ; but hurry, or negligence, for the want of an un 
derstanding of the evil arising I'rom putting it off. these callh 
of nature are suppressed j but let it be understood, nafurt- 
like a good workman or student, has a time for each duty ; 
then not only let her work at her own time, but if tardy j;o 
at this time and uot only aid but solicit her call, or iu otiun 
words : 

When nature ca.Ti, at eilherdoor, do not attempt to bluff-her • 
But hasl»;-awc.y, aiyht or ('Ay, or heaUh is sure to suffer. 

"Hie above with .attention to diet, using milk, roasted apples 
■ivA if not dyspe|)tic, uncooked apples, pears, peaciies, tfcc., at 
meal time, '• "^'ankeo Brown Bread," or bread made of unbolted 
wiieat, if preferred, and avoiding a meat diet, will in most caaef 
■oon remedy the difficulty. However: 

2. 'n vkuy OnsTif atr Cases — Take extract of henbane i di. , 
extract »rc<il<>cynih * dr., extract of nux vomica 3 grs. ; care- 
fully w Ilk into pill nia&s and form into 15 pills. Dose — one 
piil iiighi and monung. 

(^)iitinuc their use ULt'd the difticulty is overcome, at the 
•Kuue time, foUowmg the previous directiona, faithfully. 



102 DR. chase's EEOIPES. 

With many persons, the following will be found all suflBcient : 

y. Bk>»nuy. — i \)t. ; and put into it rhubarb-root, bruised, 1 
dr. ; liiera-picra 1 oz. ; and fennel seed ^ oz. 

After it has stood for several days, t;ike a table-spoon of 
it three times daily, before eating, until it operates, then hali 
tile (ju:intit,y, or a little less, just sufficient to establish a daily 
ae.ion of the bowels, until all is taken. Or, the second pill 
under the head of Eclectic Liver Pill may be taken as an 
liltenitive to bring about the action of the liver, which is, of 
course, more or less inactive in most cases of long continued 
costiveiicss. 

4. Corn .Meai< — 1 table-spoon stirred up in sufflcient cold 
vialer to drink well, and drank in the morning, innnediaiely aflei 
risiufr, Lfis, with pei-severance, cured many l)ad cases. 

5. A Fresh Egg — Beat in a gill of water and drank on 
rising in the morning, and at each meal, for a week to ten 
days, has cured obstinate cases. It might be increased to 
two or three at a time, as the stomach will bear. 

CHRONIC G(^UT— To Curk.— " Take hot vinegar, and put 
iiiio it all the table salt which it will uissolve, and bathe the 
parts affected with a sotY piece of flannel. Uub in with the hand, 
and dry the fool, &c., by the fire. Repeal this operation four 
times in the 24 hours, 15 minutes each time, for four days ; then 
twice a day for the same period ; then once, and follow this rule 
whenever the symptoms show themselves at any future time.' 

The philosophy of the above formula is as follows : Chronic 
g<mt proceeds from the obstruction of the free circulation oi 
the blood (in the parts affected) by the deposit of a chaiky 
3ubst;incc, which is generally understood to be a carbouaie 
and phosphate of lime. Vinegar and salt dissolve these ; 
and the old chronic compound is broken up. The carbonate 
of lime, &c., become acetate and muriate, and these being 
soluble, are taken up by the circulating system, and di»- 
i harged by secretion. This fact will be seen by the g<iuty 
joints becoming less and less in bulk until they assume their 
natural size. During this process, the stomach and bowels 
should be occasionally regulated by a gentle purgative. Ab- 
stinence from spirituous libations; exercise in the open air, 
and especially in the morning; freely bathing the whole 
surface ; eating only the plainest food, and occupying the 
time by study, or useful employment, are very desirable as- 
Bifitants. 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 108 

2, GooT Tincture. — Veratnim viride, (swamp hellebore) \ 
oz. ; f>piiiin i <)Z. ; wine ^ pi. ; let them stand for several days. 
Dose — 15 to 30 drop.s, acronliiig to the robustness of tiie patient, 
at intervals of two to four hours. 

M. Husson, a French officer, introduced this remedy in 
gout some sixty years ago, and it became so celebrated that it 
sold as high as from one to two crowns a dose. It is con- 
sidered valuable also in acute rheumatism. In gout it re- 
moves the paroxysms, allays pain, and procures lest and 
sleep, reduces the pulse and abates fever. 

3. Ooffee has recently been recommended, not only for 
Erout, L»ut gravel also. Dr. Mosley observes^ in his " Trea- 
tise on Coffee," that the great use of the article in France is 
supposed to have abated the prevalence of the gravel. In 
the French colonies, where coffe is more used than in the 
English, as well as in Turkey, where it is the principal bev- 
erage, not only ti>e gravel but the gout is scarcely known. 
Dr. Faar relates, as an extraordinary instance of the effect 
of 3oft"be on goiH the case of Dr. Deveran, who was attacked 
with gout at th<> age of twenty-five, and had it severely till 
he was upwar/e of fifty, with chalk stones in the joints of 
his hands ani< feet ; but for four years preceeding the time 
when the tu-zrount of his case had been given to Dr. Faur to 
lay befor*- the public, he had, by advice, used coffe, and had 
00 ret-int of the gout afterward. 

PA r-A LYSIS,— If Recent— To Cure.— When paraly- 
sif--. /^numb palsy) has existed for a great length of time, but 
little benefit can be expected from any treatment ; but if 
recent, very much good, if not a perfect cure will be the re- 
sult of faithfully governing yourself by the following direc- 
vions with this : 

Paralytic Liniment.— Sulphuric ether 6 ozs. ; alcohol 2 ozs. ; 
laudanum 1 oz. ; oil of lavender 1 oz. ; mix and cork tightly. In 
a recent case of paralysis let the whole extent of the numb sur- 
face be, thoroughly bathed and rubbed with this preparation, 
for several minutes, using the hand, at least 3 times daily, at the 
same lime tai\e internally, 20 drops of the same, in a little sweet- 
ened water, to prevent translation upon some internal organ. 

It may be used in old cases, and, in many of them, will 
undoubtedly do much good ; but I do not like to promise 
what there is no reasonable chance to perform. It is weJJ 



1*'4 DR. CRASe'b RKCIPB8 

in very recent cases to keep the parts covered with flannels 
with a large amount of t'rictiun by the hand ; also, elect ricitj 
scientilicaliy applied, that is by a Physician or some one \vh(i 
lias studied the nature and operations of the electrical ma 
chine. 

This liniment should be applied so freely, that abtut an 
ounce a day will be consumed, on an arm or leg, and if a 
whole side is palsied, proportion oily more. In cases of pain:' 
in the stomach or side a tea-spoon will be taken with unusual 
success ; or for pain in the head, apply to the surface, always 
bearing in mind that some should be taken internally wlmn- 
ever an external application is made. la sprains and bruise? 
where the surfoce is not broken it will be found very effica- 
cious. It may be, successfully, rubbed over the seat of anj 
internal disease accompanied with pain. 

ENLARGP]D TONSILS— To Cure.— Where the tonsils 
are enlarged from colds, or epidemic sore throat. 

Take No. six 1 oz. ; molasses 2 ozs. ; and liot water 4 ozs. . 
mix and sip a little into the throat often, swallowing a little al%), 
it keeps up a discharge of saliva from those parts and iluis re- 
lieves their swollen condition ; and stimulates to renewed heallhj 
action. 

It has proved very efficacious in the above epidemic cases, 
which leave the tonsils much indurated (hardened), as well 
IS swollen, with a tendency to chronic inflammation of the 
whole larynx, or throat, often with little ulcers. In thai 
case : 

Put I'J grs. of nitrate of silver to 1 oz. of water with 3 or 4 
drops of creosote, and swab the throat with it, and lay a tlaunel 
wet with turpentine upon the outside. 

The worst cases will shortly yield to this mild treatment 
Should there, however, be a disposition to fever, you might 
also put the feet into hot water fifteen or twenty minutes 
with occasional sponging the whole surface. 

SICK HEAD ACHE— To Curk.— Sick head ache, pio- 
per, arises from acidity, or over-loading the stonnich ; when 
it is not from over eating, all that is necessary, is to soak the 
feet in hot water about twenty minutes, drinking at the same 
time some of the herb-teas, such s^s oen ay royal catnip, oi 
mint, &c., then get into bed, caver up warm and keep up a 



MEDICAJ. DEPARTMENT. 105 

Tweating process for about an hour, by which time relief 
will have been obtained ; but when food has been taken which 
remains in the stomach, it is much the best way to take an 
ametic, and the following is the : 

2. Eclectic Emetic— Which is composed of lobelia, and 
ipecacuanha, equal parts, and blood root half as much as of 
sither of the others, each pulverized sei)arately, and mix tl;or- 
oughly. DoBE- Half a common tea-spoon every 15 or 20 min 
ates in some of the warm teas, for instance, camomile-flowers, 
pennyroyal, or boneset — drinking ft-eely between doses of the 
same tea in which you take it; continue until you get a free and 
full evacuation of the contents of the stomach. 

After the operation, and when the stomach becomes a 
little settled, some nourishment will be desired, when any 
of the mild broths, or gruel, should be taken, in small quan- 
tities, without fear of increasing the difficulty. 

" There is, probably, no emetic surpassing this, either in 
eflBcacy of action, or efficiency in breaking up morbid, un- 
healthy conditions of the s^^stem generally ; and exciting 
healthy action. It is excellent in croup, chronic affections 
of the liver or stomach, (fcc, and in fact, when and where 
ever an emetic is needed." — Beach. 

But after a full trial of both, upon my own person and 
others, 1 prefer lobelia seed alone, pulverized when used. 
The manner of administering them has been the cause of 
bringing the lobelia emetic into disrepute. I take " Thomp- 
son's Composition" tea, made as there directed and drink 
two saucers of it, fifteen minutes apart, and with the third 
I stir in one rounding tea-spoon of lobelia seed, pulverized, 
•and drink it; then every fifteen minutes I take another 
saucer of 'the tea until free vomiting takes place, not taking 
any more of the lobelia ; by this course I think it more effi- 
cient and thorough than the mixed emetic, and entirely free 
from danger of the " alarming symptoms," as they are called, 
brought on by continuing to give the lobelia every few min- 
utes instead of waiting its action, and all for want of knowl- 
edge as to what that action should be ; but if you give it its 
own time, continuing the stimulating tea, it will have its 
Kp,'ci/ic action, which is to vomit, no matter at which end it 
is introduced. When it begins to vomit it will generally 
continue its action until it eiiijities the stomach, then 1 begin 
to substitute the composition with : 



106 DR. chask'b recipis. 

8. Brkad Tea, Used vs Takivo Emetics.— Made by takings 
piece of dry bread and crumbing it into a bowl, with a liliiewiil, 
pepper, and butter, to suit the taste, tlien pouring boiling water 
upon it ; this soon allays the retching, and strengthens the stom- 
ach to renewed healthy action. 

Periodical Headache. — There are those who have sick 
headache coming ou at periods of from a i'ew weeks to i^o 
or three months, lasting two or three days, accompaiiicd 
with nausea, and occasionally with vomiting. In these caspr 
after using the cmotic to relieve the present attack, take 
the Cathartic Syrup next following : 

4. CATnARTic Syrup. — Best senna leaf loz. ; jalap ior.; but- 
ternut, the inner bark of the root, dried and bniised, 2 oz. ; pep- 
peimint leaf i oz. ; tennel seed i oz. ; alcohol ipt. ; wjiler 1^ 
pts. ; sugar 2 lbs. ; put all into the spirit and water, except the 
sugar, and let it stand 2 weeks, then strain, pressing out from 
the dregs, adding the sugar and siuimeriug a few minutes only, 
to form the syrup. If it should cause griping in any case, in- 
crease the fennel seed and peppermint leaf. Dose — One table- 
spoon, once a day, or less often if the bowels become too loose, 
up to the next period when the headache might have been 
expected, and it will not be forthcoming. 

Tliis is a mild purgative, and especially pleasant. Most 
pei-sons, after a trial of it, will adopt it for their genera) 
cathartic, and especially for children. Increase or lessen 
the dose, according to the effect desired. 

Females in a weak and debilitated condition, often have 
a headache which is purely sympathetic ; this they will dis- 
tinguish by their general weakness, irregularities, and light- 
headedness, often amounting to real pain ; in such cases 
take the following : 

■>. Headache Drops. — Castor, gentian, and valerian roots, 
bruisod, i oz. ; laudanum 1 oz. ; sulphuric ether 1 j oz. ; alcohol 
i pt. ; water ^ pt. ; put all into a bottle and let stand about 10 
iays. Dose — A tea-spoon as often as required, or 2 or 3 timea 
daily. 

6. TrNCTURE OF Blood-Root. — TVIade by putting 1 oz. of the 
liied, bruised root, to 1 pt. of gin, and taking 1 tea-spoon, befoi« 
eating, every morning, and only eating a reasonable amount of 
"easily digested food : 

Has worked wonders in cases where headaches had beea 
ot very long standing. And it might not be amiss to say 
that the majority of headaches are found amongst those who 
are disposed to Dyspepsia, by long continued over-eating, 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 107 

'hnn reducing the gastric juice by over-drinking, even of 
*nter, tea ur coflee. 

A Niles paper gives one which is easily tried It is aa 
hiilows : 

7. " Charcoax, a Cure for Sick Headache. — It is stated 
that two tea-spoons of tinely powdered charcoal, drank in half 
a tumbler of water, will, in less than 15 minutes, give relief 
to the sick headache, when caused, as in most cases it is, by 
superabundance of acid on the stomach. "We have tried this 
remedy lime and again, and iis efficacy in every instance has 
been signally satisfactory." 

AV'hen headache lias been brought on by eating too freelj 
of boiled beef, cabbage, &c., or any other indigestible din- 
ner, one cup of " good tea," at tea time, eating only a slice 
of dry bread, will often allay the nervousness, quiet the 
head, and aid in getting to sleep. The " Good Samaritan '' 
applied to the head is also good. . 

DELIRIUM TREMENS.- To Obtain SLEEP.-Give an emetic 

of ipecacuanha, then give 15 to 18 grs. of the same, every 2 
hours, using the shower bath, and giving all the beef-tea the 
patient desires. 

The jail physician of Chicago reports thirty-six favorable 
cases treated as above. In Boston, at the " House of Cor- 
rection," the danger arising from the sudden loss of their 
accustomed stimulus, according to Puritanic economy, if 
overcome by administering, freely, a strong decoction of 
wormwood. 

2. Stimui-ating Anodyne.— Sulphate of quinine 12 grs. 
sulphate of morphine 1 gr. ; mix, am' divide into 6 powders 
Dose — One powder every hour. 

Prof. King, of Cincinnati, 0., says that from two to foui 
powders of the above anodyne, will nearly every time pro- 
duce sleep in this whisky delirum. 

TYPHUS FEVER.— To Prevent Infection.— Take nitre, 
(salt petre,) pulverized, J oz. ; oil of vitriol f oz. ; put the nitrp 
into a tea-cup and set it on a red hot shovel, adding the vitriol 
one-si.xth at a time, stirring it with a pipe stem; avoiding the 
(umes as they rise from the cup ; no danger, however, in breath- 
ing the air of the room. 

The above amount is suiBcient for a room twelve by six 
teen feet, and less or more according to the size of olliei 
rooms. Dr. J. C. Smith, of Loudon, is said to have re^ 



108 DR. CBASK'b RBCIPS8. 

solved from Parliament £5000 for making this recipe pnblio 
L. To purify the air from noxious effluviji in sick room*, 
aot of a contajiious character, Bimply slice three or f(Mir 
jnions, place them on a plate upon the floor, changing them 
ohree or four times in the twenty-four hours. 

;{. DrsiNFKCTANT, FOR R00M8, Meat, AND B'isH. — CommoD 
lalt \ a tea-cup; sulphuric acid 2 or 3 oz. ; put alxnU \ oz. of 
)f tlu* acid upon the salt at a time, every 15 minutes, stirring, 
'jutii all put on : 

Which will purify a large room ; and for meat or fish, 
hang them up in a box having a cover to it, and thus confine 
tlie g;i8, and tainted articles of food will soon be purified, by 
the same operation. And notwithstanding so much waa 
paid for the " Smith Disinfectant," the above will be found 
e(jually good. 

4. Coffee, dried and pulverized, then a little of it 
sprinkled upon a hot shovel, will, in a very few minut^ 
clear a room of all impure effluvia, and especially of an ani- 
mal character. 

5. Chloride op Lime — Half a saucer of it, moistened 
with an equal mixture of good vinegar and water, a few 
drops at a time only, will purify a sick-room in a few min 
utes. 

SWEATING PREPARATI()N8.-^SwEATrN-o Dkops.— Ipe- 
cacuanha, saffron, Virs^inia snake root, and camphor gum. each 
% i>7.s. ; opium J oz. ; alcohol 3 qts.. Let stand 2 weeks, shaking 
occasionally. Dose — A tea-spoon in a cup of hot pennyrcjya!, 
spearmint, or catnip tea, every lialf hour, until perspiration is 
induced ; then once an hour, for a few hours. 

It is excellent in colds, fevers, pleurisy, inflammation of 
the lungs, «&c. It is good to soak the feet in hot water at 
the same time. 

2. Sweating with TJcrning Alcohol.— Pour alcohol into a 
sancir, to about half fill it; place this under a chair; strip the 
person, to be sweated, of all clothing, and place him in the chair, 
putting a comforter over him, also ; now light a match and throw 
into the saucer of alcohol, which sets it on fire, and by the time 
the alcohol is burned out he will be in a protiise perspiration, if 
not, put in half as much more of alcohol and fire it again, which 
will accomplish the object; then rise up and draw the com- 
forter around you, and get into bed, following up with hot teat 
and sweating arop8,-as m the first above. 



MfemCAIi DfiPAaXMENT. 109 

This last plan of sweating is also good in reusut colds, 
jiteurisy, inflammation of the lungs, and all othei inflamma- 
tory diseases, either in recent attacks, or of loLg standing 
jomplaints. See the closing remarks after the tueatmcnt ot 
< I'ieurisy," aUo " Ginger Wine." 

IMPERIAL DROP,— For Gba\'EL and Kidjjey Com- 
plaints. — Take saltpetre 1 oz. ; putting it into an iron mortar, 
dropping in a live coal with it, which sets it on fire ; stir it 
iround until it all melts down into the solid form, blow out the 
coals, and pulverize it; then take an equal amount of bi-carbon- 
&te of potassia, or galcratus, and dissolve both in soft water 2 
OL-8. Dose — from 20 to 30 drops, morning and evening, in a 
B\vaUow of tea made from flax seed, or a solution of gum arabit^ 

In connection with the drops, let the patient take from 
A table-spoon to two or three table-spoons of onion juice — 
that is, all the stomach will bear — eating all the raw oniona 
he can, and continue it until free of the complaint. I have 
seen gravel the size of a common quill, crooked, and one 
and one-fourth inches in length, which a lady passed from 
the bladder, and smaller bits almost innumerable, by the 
eimple use of onion juice alone. 

The onion juice, (red onions are said to be the best,) has, 
and may be injected through a catheter into the bladder ; 
have no fears to do this, for I know a physician of forty 
years' practice who has done it five times with Buccess — a 
physician, however, would have to be called to introduce 
the catheter. 

2. In what is termed " Fits of the gravel," that is, where 
small gravel has become packed in the ureter, (tube which 
leads from the kidney to the bladder,) causing excruciating 
pain in that region, a pill of opium must be given, varying 
in size from one to three grains, according to the pain, 
strength, and age of the patient. 

3. A strong decoction made by using a large handful of smart 
v>ecd, adding a gill of gin, and a gill each "of horse mint and 
onion juices, and taking all in 12 hours, has been known to dis- 
charge gravel in large quantities. — Philadelphia Eclectic Journal 

The surest sign of gravel is the dark appearance of tha 
arine, as if mixed with coffee grounds, and a dull pain in 
the region of the kidney — if only inflamation, the darkness 
will not appear. Sec the closing remarks upon Gout. 

CA3IPflOR ICE— Fob Chatpku Hakds ob Lirs.- Bperm- 



Hit DB. chase's recipes. 

aceti tallow 1^ om. ; oil of sweet almonds 4 tea-spoons ; grxm 
camphor J oz. ; made fine. Set on the stove until dissolved, 
constantly stirring. Do not use only just suflScient heat to melt 
them. 

W' hilst warm, pour into moulds if desired to sell, then 
paper and put up in tin foil. If for your own use, put up 
in a tight box. Apply to the chaps or cracks two or three 
times daily, especially at bed time. 

BURNS. — Sai.ve for Burns, Fhost-Bites, Cracked Nip- 
ples, &c. — Equal parts of turpentine, sweet oil, and beeswax ; 
melt tlie oil and wax together, and when a little cool, add the 
turjjeuline, and stir until cold, which keeps them evenly mixed. 

Apply by spreading upon thin cloth — linen is the best 
I used this salve upon one of my own children, only a year 
and a half old, which had pulled a cup of hot coffee upon 
itself, beginning on the eye lid and extending down the face, 
neck and breast, also over the shoulder, and in two olaces 
across the arm, the skin coming off with the clothes ; id 
fifteen minutes from the application of the salve, the child 
was asleep, and it never cried again from the burOj and not a 
particle of scar left. 

It is good for chaps on hands or lips, or for any other 
sore. If put on burns before blistering has taken place, 
they will not blister. And if applied to sore or cracked 
nipples every time after the child nurses, it soon cures them 
also. For nipples, simply rubbing it on is sufficient. I find 
it valuable also for pimples, and common healing purposes ^ 
and I almost regret to add any other preparations for the 
same purposes, for fear that some will neglect this ; but 
as there may be cases where some of the following can be 
made when the above cannot, I give a few others known to 
be valuable. The first one is from Dr. Downer, of Dixboro, 
within six miles of our city ; he used it in a ca.se where a 
boy fell backwards into a tub of hot water, scalding the 
whole buttock, thighs, and privates, making a bad scald in la 
bad place, but he succeeded in bringing him successfully 
through, and from its containing opium, it might be prefer- 
able to the first in deep and very extensive burns, but in 
that case the opium might be added to the first. It is aa 
follows : 

2. Dr. Downer's Salve for Burns. — Beeswax 4 ozs. ; opium 
\ oz. ; sugar of lead 1 oz. ; melt the beeswax, and rub the lead 



MXDICAX DEPARTMBKT. Ill 

up In the wax, then the opium ; and finally atld about a gill of 
sweet oil, or suificient to make a salve of proper consisteoce. 

Bpreaa iightiy on cloth — no pain, he says, will be felt 
under its use. He highly recommends it for the pain and 
inflamation of Piles, also. 

a. f ouLTiCE FOR BuRNS AND FROZEN Plesh. — A. Brouson, 
of Meadville, Pa., says, from 15 years' experience, that Indian 
meal poultices covered with young hyson tea, moistened with 
hot water, and laid over burns or frozen parts, as hot as can be 
borne, will relieve the pain in 5 minutes, and that blisters, il 
tney Lave not, will not arise, and that one poultice is usually 
Bumoient. 

4. tJALVE FOR BtJRNS. — Bccswax, Burgundy pitch, white 
pine pitch, and rosin, of each i lb. ; mutton tallow i lb. ; goose 
nil 1 gill ; tar i gill, mixed and melted together, and used aa 
other waives. 

This was used successfully on a very bad case, burned all 
over the face, neck, breast, bowels, &c., soothing and quiet- 
ing pain, giving rest and sleep directly. 

5. Garden and Kitchen Salve for Burns and Frost 
Bites. — Liveforever and sweet clover leaves, camomile and 
Bweet elder, the inner bark, a handful of each ; simmer them in 
fresh butter and mutton tallow, of each i lb. ; when crisped, 
strain out and add 2 or 3 ozs. of beeswax to form a salve. 
Spread very thin on thin cloth. 

Mrs. Miller, of Macon, Mich., cured a bad case with this, 
burned by the clothes taking fire, nearly destroying the 
whole surface. She speaks of it in equal praise for cuts and 
frost-bites. 8ee the Green Ointment also for Chilblains. 

6. The white of an egg beat up, then beat for a long 
time with » table -spoon of lard, until a little water separates 
from thero^ I have found good for burns. 

7. The white oxide of bismuth, rubbed up in r little 
lard, is also a good application in burns. 

8. Glycerine and tannin, equal weights, rubbed together 
into an ointment, is very highly recommended for sore or 
cracked nipples. See Dr. Raymond's statement in connec- 
tion with the treatment of Piles. 

ITCHING FEET FROM FROST BITES,- -To Cure.— 
Take hydrochloric acid 1 oz. ; rain water 7 ozs. ; wash the feet 
with it 2 or B time^ daily, or wet the socks with ihe preparation, 
until relic>«<L 



112 DR. chase's EJECIPES. 

A gentleman T\iiose feet liad been frozen, la the Aips, 

eight years before, and another mans had been irozen two 

rears before, on the Sierra-Nevada mountains, -were effectu- 

ally .'ured by its use. 

CHILBLAINS,— To CrRE.— Publisijed by Order of thk 
GovEUNMEKT OF WiRTEMBURG — Mutton tnllow and lard of 
each % lb. ; melt in an iron vessel and add hydrated oxyde of 
iron 2 oz. ; stirring continually with an iron spoon, unJl ihe 
mass 13 of an uniform black color; tlien let it cool^nct add 
Vtnice-turpentine 2 oz. : and Annrnian bole l oz. ; on ot bur- 
gamot 1 dr. ; rub up the bole with a iittle olive oil before 
putting it in. 

Apply severa times daily by putting it upon lint or linen 
—heals Iht worst cases \i\ a few days 

Chilblain? arise from a severe cold to the part, causing 

mflammation. often ulcerating, making deep, and very 

troublesome, long continued sores. 

FELONS, — Ip Recent, to Clue in Six ITocrs. — ^Venice 
tuiTjentine 1 oz., and put into it half a tea spoon of water and 
stir with a rou^h stick until the mass looks like candied hon 
ey, then spread a good coat on a cloth and wrap around tho 
finger. If the case is only recent, it will remove the pain in 
6 \\o\xf% 

2 A poke root poultice on a felon cures by absorption, 
unless matter is already fonned ; il it is, it soon bnngs it f.o a 
liead, and tlius saves much pam and suffering, 

3 Blue flag and hellebore roots, equal parts, boiled in milk 
ami water, then soak tlie felon in it for twenty minutes, as 
hot as can be borne, and bind the roots on the parts for ono 
hour, has cured many felons, when commenced in time. 

4 A poultice ol clay, from an old log house, made and 

kept wet with spirits ol camphor, is also good. 

f). Felon Ointment.— Take sweet oil J^ pt., and stew a 3 
cent pluij of tobacco in it until the tobacco is crisped; then 
squeeze it out and add red lead 1 oz., and boil until black; 
when a little gpol, add pulverized camplior gum 1 oz. 

iMi-s Jordan, of Clyde, ©., paid ten dollars for this recipe, 
aiKi ha.s cured many bad felons, as well as fellows, wilh it. 
Bcid teilcws because they did not pay l;er. Certainly, this is 
B rational ase of tobacco. 

6. Felon Salve.— A salve made by bumm-g: one table- 
spoon d( copperas, then pulverizing it and mixing willi the' 
yolk of an rgg, ia paid to relieve tlio piiin, and cure the fcloB 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 113 

In twenty-four hours ; then heal with cream two parts, and 
soft soap one part. Apply the healing salve daily after 
soaking the part in warm water. 

DEAFNESS. — Ip Recent, to Cure — If Not, to Relieve.— 
Hen's oil 1 gill ; and a single handful of the sweet clover raisec. 
m gardens ; stew it in the oil until the juice is ah out, strait: i! 
and bottle for use. 

Where deafness is recent, it will be cured by puttlug 
three or four drops daily into the ear, but if of long stand- 
ing, much relief will be obtained if continued a sufficient 
length of time. 

2. Much has been said in France about sulphuric ether, 
first tried by Madam Cleret, of Paris ; and, although she 
lost her reason by the elation of feeling brought on, no 
doubt, by the honor given her for the discovery, yet the 
continued trial of the article does not give the satisfaction 
which had been hoped for, from its first success. 

WARTS AND CORNS.— To Cure in Ten Minutes.— Take 
a small piece of potash and let it stand in the open air until it 
slocks, then thicken it to a paste with pulverized gum arable, 
which prevents it from spreading where it is not wanted. 

Pare off the seeds of the wart or the dead skin of the 
corn, and apply the paste, and let it remain on ten minutes; 
wash off, and soak the place in sharp vinegar or sweet oil, 
either of which will neutralize the alkali. Now do not jam 
nor squeeze out the wart or corn, like " street-corner ped- 
Icrs," but leave them alone, and nature will remove them 
without danger of taking cold, as would be if a sore is made 
by pinching them out. Corns are caused by pressure ; in 
most cases removing the pressure cures the corn. Nine of 
every ten«corns can be cured by using twice, daily, upon it, 
any good liniment, and wearing loose shoes or boots. See 
Good Samaritan. 

2. Cure for Corns. — If a cripple will take a lemon, sat 
off a piece, then nick it so as to let in the toe with the corn, 
the pulp next the corn — tie this on at night, so that it can- 
not move — he will find next morning that, with a blunt 
knife, the corn will come away to a great extent. Two or 
thiee applications of this will make a " poor cripple" happy 
for life, — London Field. 

DB. CHABE's recipes. 



114 DB. CHA6£'fl &£CIPia. 

3. Acetic Acid, touched to hard or soft corns, night and 
morning, for one week, will cure them. So will the Samar 
itan liniment, which see. 

4. Dr. Hauiman's Innocent and Sure Cure for Corns, 
Warts and Chilblains. — Nitric and muriatic acids, blue vitriol, 
aud salts of tartar, of each 1 oz. ; add the blue vitriol, pulver 
izcd, to either of the acids, and in the same way add the sail* 
of tartar ; when done foaming, add the other acid, and in a few 
days it will be fit for use. 

Directions. — For frosted feet, rub them with a swab oi 
brush, wet with this solution very lightly, every part that 
is red and dry ; in a day or two, if not cured, apply again 
as before. For corns, apply in like manner, scraping off 
dead skin before using. For warta, wet once a week until 
they disappear, which will be soon, for it is a certain cure 
in all the above cases, and very cheap. So says the Doctor, 
of Anderson, Ind. 

5. A gentleman in Ohio offers to pay ten dollars a-piece 
for all corns not cured in three days by binding a bit of 
cotton batting upon it, and wetting it three times a day 
with spirits of turpentine. 

6. I am assured by a gentleman of Syracuse, N. Y., that a 
plaster of the " Green Mountain Salve," put upon a corn, 
will completely cure it by the time it naturally comes off. 

LINIMENTS.— Good Samaritan— Improved.— Take 98 i)er 
cent, alcohol 2 qts., and add to it the following articles : Oils of 
sassafras, hemlock, spirits of turpentine, tinctures of cayenne, 
catechu, guaicaci, (guac,) and laudanum, of each 1 oz. ; tincture 
of myrrh 4 ozs. ; oil of origanum 2 ozs. ; oil of wintergreen i oz. ; 
gum camphor 2 ozs. ; and chloroform H ozs. 

I have used the above liniment over five years, and can- 
not speak too highly of its value; I have cured myself of 
two severe attacks of rheumatism with it, the first in the 
knee and the la.st in the shoulder, three years after ; my 
wife has cured two corns on the toes with it, by wetting 
them twice daily for a few days; and it is hard to think of 
anything which it has not cured, such as sprains, brui.ses, 
cuts, jams, rheumatism, weak back, reducing swellings, 
curing leg-ache in children from over-playing, for horse- 
flesh, &c., &c. But you will allow me one remark about 
Uoiuie&ts — they ought in all cases to be put on aud rubbed 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT, 115 

in from twenty to thirty minutes, and laying the hand on 
the part until it barns from its effects, instead of one or two 
minutes, as is the usual custom ; and if made by the quart, 
you can use them freely, as the cost is not more than about 
one-eighth as much as to purchase the two shilling bottles. 
Wetting flannel with the liniment, and binding on, is a good 
manner of application. Dr. Hale, of this city, has adopted 
this liniment for general use ; but for headache and neural- 
gia, he takes eight ounces of it and adds an ounce of chlo- 
roform, and half an ounce of oil of wintergreen, rubbing 
upon the head, holding to the nostrils, &c. The full pre- 
eription will usually cost about two dollars. 

2. Liniment for Old Sores.- Alcohol 1 qt. ; aqua ammonia 
4 ozs. ; oil of origanum 3 ozs. ; camphor gum 2 ozs. ; opium 3 
ozs. ; gum myrrh 2 ozs. ; common salt 2 table-spoons. Mix, and 
shake occasionally for a week. 

This was presented for insertion by H. Loomis, of Ed- 
wardsburg, Mich., hoping it might do many others as much 
good as it had done himself and neighbors. He showed me 
scars of an old sore on his leg which he had cured with it, 
after years of suffering; and also called '".p a young man 
whose father he had cured of a similar sore, years before, 
which had never broken out again; he used it twice daily. 
His leg became sore after a protracted fever. I have great 
contidence in it. He uses it also for cuts, bruises, horse- 
9esh, inflammatory rheumatism, &c., &c. 

3. Dr. Ratmoio's Liniment. — Alcohol 1 qt. ; oils of origa- 
num 2 ozs., and wormwood 1 oz. ; with camphor gum 2 ozs. ; 
spirits of turpentine 2 ozs. ; and tincture of cantharides 1 oz. 
Mixtd, and used as other liniments. 

Dr. D. W. Kaymond, of Conneaut, 0., thinks that the 
last is the best liniment in the world. 

4. Germ.\k RnEUMATic Fluid. — Oils of hemlock and cedar, 
of each ^ oz. ; oils of origanum and sassafras, each 1 07. ; aqua 
ammonia 1 oz. ; capsicum, pulverized, 1 oz. ; ppirits of turpen- 
tine and gum camphor, each i oz. ; put all into a quart bottle 
and fill with 95 per cent, alcohol. 

The Germans speak equally in praise of this fluid, as a 
liniment, as Dr. Raymond does of his, beside.^ they say it is 
very valuable for cholic in man or horse. DosK. — For cholio, 
for man, half a tea-spoon ; for a horse, one-half to one ounce 
U a little warm water, every fifteen minutes, until relieved. 



116 DR. chask's rkcipxs. 

A gentleman purchased a horse for seventy-fire dollara, 
which had been strained in one of the fetlocks, worth before 
the strain one hundred and twenty-five dollars. lie cured 
him with this liniment, and sold him for the original value. 
lie cured his wife also of neuralgia, with the same, since I 
have published this recipe. Judge ye of its value. 

5. Cook's Electro-Magnetic Liniment. — Best alcohol 1 gal. j 
oil of amber 8 ozs. ; gum camphor 8 ozs. ; castile soap, shaved 
fine, 2 ozs. ; beefs gall 4 ozs. ; ammonia 3 F.'s strong, 12 ozs. ; 
mi.x, and shake occasionally for 12 hours, and it is fit for use. 

This will be found a strong and valuable liniment, and also 
cheap. It may be used iu swellings, strains, <kc., and 
rubbed upon the throat, breast, and lungs, in asthma, sore 
throat, &c. 

6. Liniment for Spinal Affections. — Take a pt. bottle and 
put into it oil of origanum, wormwood, spirits of turpentine, and 
gum camphor, of each 1 oz., and fill it with best alcohol. 

Mr. Barr, a gentleman with whom I have been acquainted 
for some four years, has been troubled with spinal weakness 
and pains, and he finds great relief from the use of this lini- 
ment; and his daughter took it internally for a cough also, 
with success. 

7. GuEAT Londo.n Liniment. — Take chloroform, olive oil, and 
aqua ammonia, of each, 1 oz. ; acetate of morphia, 10 grs. Mix, 
and use as other liniments. Very valuable. 

8. Gum Liniment. — Take gum myrrh, gum camphor, and gum 
opium, of each, i oz. ; cayenne pepper ioz.; alcohol 1 pt. ; mix. 

This liniment is ready for use in three or four days, and 
is very highly recommended by E. Burrows, of Matamora 
Lapeer Co., Mich. He prefers rum, if a good article can 
be got, in place of the alcohol. This would be excellent Ib 
cholic, or diarrhea also. 

9. Patent Liniment. — In order that those who purchase 
the patent liniments may know what they are buying, I give 
a formula, from which over twelve-thousand dollars worth 
of liniment was sold in two years' time, but one of the 
partners going out of the firm, and into the livery-business, 
gave me the plan as follows : 

Take whisky 15 gals.; and put into it 2 lbs. of capsicum, pul- 
verized, let staud 10 days and percolate, or draw otl the whisky, 
free uf tlie sediment ; in the mean time take 1 gal. of spints of tur- 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 117 

pef tJne and put into it oils of origanum, horse-mint, sassafras, 
v» beiulijck, (i ozs. each ; add gum camphor 2 lbs. Mix and it 
♦ tady to sell, for the purpose of gulling those who suppose 
•c. i-jbody to be horteat because they are tJienmk^ so. 

But that no loss may arise from the space this liniment 
veyipe occupies here, I will tell you how to make a good lini- 
oieut, by using a part of that with the following : 

Take of the patent liniment 8 ozs. ; sweet oil and oils of origa 
QUiJ, sassafras and aqua ammonia, of each 2 ozs., and mix, shak- 
uig well as used, and this mixture will make a splendid horse 
lini ment, with which you can easily blister, by bandaging the 
par'-, if desired, and wetting the bandage witlx it. 

rhe first would cost less than SI. 00 per gallon, whilst the 
retail price, two shillings per bottle, makes it over $2.00 per 
quart. See where your money goes. 

10. Lobelia and Cayenne Liniment. — Take a quart bottle 
ana put into it f oz. of cayenne, pulverized, then put in 2 ozs. of lo- 
bel.a herb, and till up the bottle with whisky; in two weeks it 
is 1 eaily Ibr use, and applicable for cuts, bruises, strains, sprains, 
iic. ; and it will heal cork cuts in the feet of oxen or horses, 
wntiout stopping them from labor, and with but Tcry little 
loieuess, by applying 2 or 3 times daily. 

i know a gentleman who had a gash cut in his scalp, four 
inclies in length, and to the scull in depth, by a falling limb, 
which by the use of tliis liniment only, as strange as it may 
appear, it healed without pain or soreness. But some may 
object to it as a whisky liniment. I admit it to be such, but 
by knowing how to make it yourselves, you get it for a 
whisky price, and if it be not found as good as one-half of 
tlie two-shilling-a-bottle liniments, then you may tell me that 
I do not know when I have a good thing. 

11. Liniment— Said TO BE St. John's. — For 70 doz. bottles, 
take spirits of turpentine and seueca oils, of each, 4 gals. ; lin- 
seed or sweet oil, 2 gals. ; oils of origanum, hemlock, juniper, 
amber, and lauilanum, of each, 3 qts. ; spirits of ammonia 1 qt. ; 
tincture of arnica 2 gals. ; camphor gum 1 lb. Put all into a 
keg and shake well ; when you wish to fill into small bottles, 
ehake it well and draw into a convenient bottle or pitcher to 
pour from ; and shake it well every time you till 5 bottles ; and 
shake the bottle whenever you use the liniment ; thus it might 
be called Shaking Liniment. No matter what you call it, how- 
ever, it is a good one. 

I obtained the recipe of a young gentleman who worked 
in Mr. St. John'a store over a year, yet much care was taken 



lis DR. CHASJi'S RECIPES. 

to prevent the knowledge of its exact composition from being 
found out by assistants ; it is a ■well known fact, however, 
that an observing mind can learn much, although not ex 
pressed in words. Perhaps he will blame me for publishing 
information gained in that way, but I obtain knowledge foi 
the benefit of the people ; and as I have called on the Doc- 
tor two- different times, to sell my work, but could not suc- 
ceed, I do not feel under any special obligations to him, and 
if I did, I go in for the greatest good to the greatest number 
Were it not so, I should not publish much that is contained 
in this work, for there are many persons who have and are 
making fortunes out of single recipes, now published for tha 
benefit of the world. 

Because I could not sell my Recipes to I. L. St. John, a 
Druggist of TifBn, 0., however, is not saying that I do not 
sell them to Druggists generally, as I do. In Aurora, 111., 
I sold to six, and in Pomeroy, 0., to seven, every one in 
either place, which is not common. They are, however, not 
only anxious to obtain information generally, but also willing 
to impart it to others ; and how Mr. St. John should have 
obtained as good recipes as the ones here attributed to him, 
without sometime having bought, is a little surprising ; for, 
as a general rule, those who put out " Patent 31edicines," 
are not themselves the originators of the recipes ; even Dr. 
Jayne is reported, I know not how truly, to have picked up 
the recipe, in an out-house, for his celebrated Alterative. I 
say, then, am I not justified in publishing these recipes ? 
Nay, more ! am I not honorable in thus benefiting the {)eo- 
pie ? I reat the matter with them j always willing to abide 
their decision. 

Persons only wishing to put up for their own use, will 
take one-seventieth of the various amounts, which will be 
about as follows : 

Turpentine ar\d seneca oils, of each TJ ozs. ; sweet oil and 
iincture of arnica, of each 3| ozs. ; oils of origanum, hemlock, 
juniper, amber, and laudanum, of each IJozs. ; spirits of ammo- 
nia i oz. ; and gum camphor i oz. ; which makes u little less 
than 1 qt, there being 64 qts., besides the gum camphor, in the 
whole amount. 

This calculation will be sufficiently near for all practical 
purposes. 

I have sold the condition powder and liniment, out of tli« 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 119 

dnig store, made by the Doctor, which has always given 
good Hativslaction. And I think any one who tri3s both will 
be as well pleased with those made from these recipes as 
with that which is sent out from Tiffin, and make h for one- 
fourth the cost of the other. 

COD LIVEK OIL — Made Palatable asd moiie Digesti 
BLE. — To each bottle, add fine table salt 1 oz. Mix well. 

By this very simple plan cod liver oil has its peculiar un- 
pleasantness overcome, as well as made far more easy for the 
stomach to dispose of. But even with this improvement, I 
do not consider a table-spoon of it equal, for consumption, to 
a glass of rich, sweet cream, with a tea-spoon of best brandy 
in it, to be drank at each meal. 

CONSUMPTIVES.— Syrup Vert Successful.— Take tam- 
arack bark , without rossing, (the moss may be brushed off,) 1 
peck ; spikenard root i lb. ; dandelion root i lb. ; hops 2 ozs. 
lioil these sufficiently to get the strength, in 2 or 3 gals, of water, 
strain and boil down to 1 gal. ; when blood warm add 3 lbs. ot 
noney auvl 3 pts. of best brandy; bottle, and keep in a cool 
place. Dose — A wine-glass or a little less, as the stomach will 
bear, 3 or 4 times daily, before meals and at bed time. 

Consumption may justly be called the King of diseases, 
but he has, many times, been obliged to haul down his col- 
ors, and give place to health, and consequent happiness, when 
he came in contact with the above syrup. It does not, how- 
ever, contain any of the articles usually put into syrups for 
this disease — this of itself ought to obtain for it a considera- 
tion. I have been told, and that by a professional man, that 
there was not an article in it of any value for consumption. 
I have acknowledged it does not contain any articles cojn- 
fnunli/ used for that disease ; but allow me to ask if they 
cure the disease in one case out of a hundred ? The answer 
is, No. I am now using this on a case within a few miles of 
the city, who had called one of our Professors. He promised 
benefit, and did benefit about one week ; subsequently, two 
other physicians were also called without any lasting benefit. 
He had not cut his wood for nearly a year, nor done other 
labor to any extent ; he has now taken our syrup nearly three 
m»nths; he was weak, spare in flesh, and coughed very 
much, with cold feet and surface ; he is now stout, fleshy, 
And scarcely any cough j surface and feet warm. What 



120 DE. CnASK'S BaCIPBS. 

more could be asked ? Yet he is very careless, for I calleo 
on him on a cold, snowy day lately, and he was in the woods, 
for wood. Do I need better proof of its value? iS'o one 
would expect sickness of the stomach to arise from its use. 
from the articles of which it is composed, but the first dose 
usually makes the person rather sick at the stomach, and 
sometimes vomits, but don't fear to continue its use. i had 
rather trust to tamarack-bark tea than three-fourths of th( 
consumptive syrups of the day. Let every one who is artiict 
ed with cough, be careful to avoid exposure as much as pos- 
sible. Remember, with this syrxip^ or disease, as long sa 
there is life, there is hope. 

But it would be deceptive and wicked to hold out to al 
consumptives the idea that they could be cured — -f'tctt 
speak like this, although 1 have never seen it in print, nor 
heard the remark, but my own observation says that nin*'. 
of every ten htreditari/ consumptives, will, in the end, di"? 
of the disease, while an equal number of those whose di v 
ease is brought on by colds being neglected, or from oeglecl 
of acute inflammations, &c,, may be cured. Then those 
who know their parents or others in their family to have 
gone with this disease, need hardly expect a cure, notwith- 
standing much benefit may be derived from care, with tht 
above treatment, good diet, and out-of-door exercise, while 
those whose systems are not tainted from parents may ex- 
pect a permanent cure. 

I shall now throw in a few thoughts of my own,- and from 
the experience of many others in the profession, whioh I 
hope may benefit all, needing light on the subject. 

•Ftrst, then — Do not go South, to smother and die ; hat 
go North, for cool, fresh air, hunt, fi.sh, and eat freely cf 
the roasted game ; cast away care, after having trusted all in 
Christ, that it may be well, living or dying. Take a healthy, 
faithful friend with you, to lean upon when needed, in yuui 
rambles. So shall it be well with many who would otooi- 
wise sink to the consumptive's grave. Have your potatoes 
with you, and roast them in the embers ; your corn meal 
also, which you will mix with cold water, having a little «uh 
in it, and bake on a board before the fire, and then say jou 
cannot make out a good-flavored meal, and a healthy one 
also, from your roast venison^ or broiled Jishy with coast pota- 



MEDICAL DEl-ARTMENT. 121 

toes and johnny-c^e., I will thon acknowledge that you are 
iri'ired far gone on tho consumptive's track, and especially if 
you bave been wandering over hills and through the valley? 
of our northern country in pursuit of the game of which you 
»re *bout to partake. 

Secondly — Do not leave home after having tried every- 
thing else in vain, and just ready to wrap the mantle of the 
grave around you j then you need all the care of many 
friends, and a quiet place to die ; but strike out the first 
thing when you become certain that permanent disease haa 
fastened upon the lungs ; then you may not only reasonably 
expect a cure, but be almost certain. Have the means witl) 
you to avoid getting wet by rains ; but often wash and rab tke 
whole surfaco, wearing flannel next the skin, and clothe 
yourself according to the weather and sex ; for there is no 
reason why females should not pursue about the same course 
Ihey can dress a la Bloomer, and with their father, hus- 
band, brother, or other knoion friend, derive the same bone- 
fit from out-door exercise, like field or forest rambles botan- 
ical huntings, geological surveys, or whatever sp<.rts o»" 
realities may give just the amount of exercise not to fatijuc 
the invalid. 

For females who have familios and cannot, leave them, 
g^rdeninp- will be the best substitute for the travel, or of all 
the employments which can be engaged in. 

Lastly — Those who are already far down the consump- 
tive track and confined at home, will derive much benefit by 
u.«<lng, at each meal, half a pint of rich, fresh cream. In all 
cases it is ahead of Cod-Liver Oil, with none of its disagreea- 
bleness. And if it can be borne, a tea, to a table-spoon of 
the best brandy may be added. 

Much is being said, now-a-days, about the necessity of 
constant inflation of the lungs by long-drawn breaths, hold 
ing the breath, also, as »ong as possible, when thus fullj 
inflated; but, for those whose lungs are extensively diseased, 
it is not only useless, but very dangerous, from the liability 
to burst blood-vessels in the lungs, causing hemorrhage, if 
not instant death. In the commencement of the disease. 
however, or for those in health, the practice is decidedly 
good. 

2. Half a pint of new milk, wit«» a wine-glass of expressed 



12t OB. ohask's bkoipes. 

juice of green hoarhound, each morning for a naonth, if 
Baid to have worked wonders in relieving the soreness dI" thf 
lungs, and giving tone to the general health in this disease 

3. Chlorate of Potash, for Consumption —A gen 
tleman of Iowa read a paper about a year ago before the 
" American Medical Association," upon the subject of Chk> 
rate of Potash in Consumption, giving the history of a few 
cases only. For the want of a more extended trial of it, 
the Association thought best not to publish his paper but 
referred it back to him, and to the consideration of the. o^hei 
members for further test. 

Amongst those members is Dr. A. B. Palmer, of this city 
one of the Vice-Presidents of the Association, and I'mt'cv 
8or of " Practice, Materia Medica," -fee, in the (Jniversity 
of Michigan, at Ann Arbor — by the way, a gentleman and 
a scholar. Having had much experience in practice, he saw 
fit to give it a trial. He has used it »n about thirty causes, 
and with a single exception with marked success ; and in 
that case there was at first much improvement, but the pa- 
tient was a German who does not unders-aud our language 
Very well, and from this fact when he fbuud that it caused a 
heat or burning sensation in the stomach instead of going 
to the Professor and having the f|uantity J«ssened, he aban- 
doned it altogether. But through Prof. Pa.mer's kindness I 
have been permitted to refer to other aif^^s where a very 
marked amelioration has tjiken place. One >f these, a mar 
ricd lady, although her lungs were full of ^ubercles, with 
mudli coughing, soreness of the lungs, with sU^irp pains upon 
full breaths being taken, &c., finds her cough »oose, sorcnesi 
all gone, and that full breaths can be Uiken without pain, 
(or stitching, as commonly called,) and fully be^eves that if 
Bhe could have had this prescription early in tho disease, she 
would now have been well, yet derives much reb'^f from its 
use. Another lady has been using it only a few months, 
and finds that her symptoms are all very much relieved, and 
she has gained seventeen pounds in flesh. 

The Professor assures me that in the first few cases where 

he prescribed the chlorate, the benefits were so marWed, it 

was really astonishing; which, of course, caused him to po 

on in its use, until, as before remarked, about thirty east* 

• have been more or less benefitted by its ^ise, under htf caro. 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 128 

^(i3 method of giving it is to put about a tea-spoon of the 
tfbW^rate into a glass of water, which is to be drank a Httle at 
a time, in from six to twenty-four hours, with other appro- 
priate treatment. 

If in any case the chlorate should cause a heat or burning 
sensaaon at the stomach, lessen the quantity j and unless 
this does occur, no apprehensions need be felt in using it 
It improves the general symptoms, lessening the pulse, &c., 
Tyhilst the Cod-Liver Oil has never done anything more than 
to benefit merely as food ; and from its very disgusting smell 
and taste, and the almost impossibility of keeping it upon 
the stomach, I greatly prefer the fresh sweet cream men- 
ti(iiie() above, or the fat meat, as mentioned below. 

'I'he hyper-phosphites have been extensively used, but 
Fruf. Palmer tells me that in Paris and other parts of Eu- 
rope, where he traveled during the past summer, that not 
one v,ell authenticated case of cure by them can be pro- 
duced. Bet he feels much encouraged to hope that th« 
chlorate will prove itself worthy of great confidence. 

The above was written one year ago; and the reports 
coming in since then, both in America and from Europe, 
more than confirms the expected benefits and hoped-for ad- 
vantages from the use of the chlorate in this disease. 

4. Remarls on the Use op Fat Meats — Preventive 
JF Consumption. — There is so much said against the use of 
fat meats, and e>>pecially pork, as an article of diet, that I 
cannot better close uiy remarks upon this subject than by 
giving the opposite opinions of those in high places, corro- 
borated also by my own experience. 

Dr. Dixon, of the Scalpel, some time ago, assumed the 
position that " the use of oils would diminish the victims 
of consumption nine-tenths, and that that was the whole 
^cret of the use of Cod-Liver Oil, to take the place of fat 
meats." 

Dr. Hooker's observations on the use of fat meats, con 
lected with consumption, are as follows : 

" PiiiST — Of all persons between the ages of 15 and 22 years, 
more than one-fifih eat no fat meat. Second — Of persons at 
the age of 41, all, excepting less than 1 in 50, habitually use fat 
ojcat. Thikd — Of persons who, between the a^esof 15 and 23, 
•void fat meat, a few acquire an appetite for .it, and live to a 



124 DR. chase's Rfacipes. 

good old age, while the greater portion die with phthesis {cp<\- 
sumption,) before 35. Fouktu — Of persons dying with phtheftie 
between the ages of 12 and 45, nine-tenths, at least, havenevei 
used fat meats." 

'* Most individuals who avoid fat meat, also use little but 
ter or oily gravies, though many compensate for this want 
in part, at least, by a free use of those articles, and also milk, 
eggs, and various saccharine substances. But they consti 
tute an imperfect substitute for fat meat, without which, 
eooner or later, the body is almost sure to show the effects 
of deficient calorification." 

A lady-lecturer recently said in this city, in one of hei 
''?ctures — " Set a piece of pork before a lady : oh, horrible! 
the dirty, nasty, filthy stuff; give us chicken — clean, nice 
chicken." Now this lady, certainly, was no farmer's wife 
or she would have observed that the habits of chickens are 
ten times more filthy than that of the hog, if it be possible; 
for even the hog's leavings and droppings are carefully over- 
hauled by them, and much of it appropriated to " Ijadies' 
meat." But their filthiness is no argument in either case; 
for nature's strainer, (the stomach,) throws off all impurities. 
Why do so many young Uufies, young cle/y/ynien, and stu- 
dents die of consunjption 1 Simply because chicken or 
other lean meats, hot biscuit, &c., without exercise, make up 
the sums of their diet ; when, if they would eat fat meats, 
with bread not less than one day old, scrub floors, saw 
wood, or other arm exercise, according to sex, an hour at 
each end of each day, they might be spared for years — per- 
haps to long lives of usefulness, to their families, congrega- 
tions, or the world. 

5. So far as pork is concerned as food, the following rule 
may be safely followed : If it agrees with the stomach, 
which is known by its digesting without " Kising.s," as it is 
called, its use may be continued, but if it rises, lessen the 
quantity, and if it still rises, abandon its use altogether; but 
1 digests better with me than mutton, or chicken, and 1 
have been trying them for nearly Ji/t^ years. The same 
rule is good for all articles of food. As to exercise^ for 
men who are not regular laborers, wood-sawing is the bast, 
next, horseba^^iding, then walking; for women, hobing 
in the garden or field, next sweeping, dusting, &o., iimt^ 
horseback riding, walking, &o. 



MEDICAL DErARTMENT. 125 

6. But I have recently seen a piece going the rounds of 
t^'S papers as the best cure for consumption in the world, 
WQich contains so much good sense that I will close my re- 
marks on the subject by giving it a quotation, and let every 
one judge for themselves, which to try, if they see fit to 
give either a ti'ial. It is represented as coming from an ex- 
chanye only, but from its style of. remark, I think it must 
hav« started from Hall's Journal of Health : 

" Eat all that the appetite requires of the most nourishing 
food, such as fresh beef, lamb, oysters, raw eggs, fruit, vegetables, 
and 3 times a day take a glass of egg-nog, made as rich as the 
patient can bear. Avoid all other alcoholic drinks. Bathe tv/ice 
ft week in water made agreably warm, and in a warm room ; 
after bathing rub the body and limbs witli sweet cream or sweet 
oil. Exercise daily in the open air ; walking is the best. Stand 
erect, exercise the arms and lungs freely, keep the mind cheer- 
ful ; take freely of the best cough syrup, and consumption will 
be a stranger to your household. 

" For making the best cough syrup, take 1 oz. of thorough- 
wort ; 1 oz. of slippery elm ; 1 oz. of stick licorice, and 1 oz. of 
flax seotl ; simmer together in 1 qt. of water until the strength 
is entirely extracted. Strain carefully, add 1 pt. of best moUis- 
ees and i lb. of loaf sugar ; simmer them all well together, and 
when cold bottle tight. This is the cheapest, best, and safest 
medicine now or ever in use." 

" A few doses of one table-spoon at a time will alleviate 
the most distressing cough of the lungs, soothes and allays 
irritation, and if continued, subdues any tendency to cou- 
sumptioQ ; breaks up entirely the whooping cough, and no 
better remedy can be found for croup, asthma, bronchitis, 
and all affections of the lungs and throat. Thousands of 
precious lives may be saved every year by this cheap and 
simple remedy, as well as thousands of dollars which would 
otherwise be spent in the purchase of nostrums which are 
both useless and dangerous." — Exchange. For egg-nog 
eee " Stimulant in Low Fevers." 

OINTMENTS.— For Old Sores.— Red precipitate i oz ; su 
gar of lead i oz. ; burnt alum 1 oz. ; white vitriol ^ oz, or a littl 
less ; all to be very finely pulverized ; have mutton tallow made 
warm ^ lb. ; stir all in, and stir until cool. 

Mr. Brownell, of Dowagiac, Mich., thinks there is no 
ointment equal to this for fever or any other old sores, from 
actual trial, as much so aa Mr. Loomis does of his Liniment 
Wo. 2. 



126 DB. CHASr. 8 RECIPES. 

2. JuDKiNs' Ointment. — This ointment has been long 
celebrated through Ohio and the Eastern States. It waa 
invented and put up by an old Doctor of that name, whose 
family took to the profession of medicine as naturally as 
ducks to water. I obtained it of one of the sons, who is 
practicing at Malaga, Ohio, from whom I also obtained Lan- 
dolfi's and his own method of curing cancer, (see those re- 
cipes,) and he always uses this ointment to heal cancers and 
all other sores : 

Linseed-oil 1 pt. ; sweet oil 1 oz. ; and boil them in a kettle on 
coals for nearly 4 hours, as warm as you can ; then have pulver- 
ized and mixed, borax i oz. ; red lead 4 ozs., and sugar of kad 
li ozs. ; remove the kettle from the fire and thicken in the p/vw- 
der ; continue the stirring until cooled to blood heat, then stir in 
1 oz. of spirits of turpeutme; and now take out a little, letting 
it iret cold, and if not then sufficiently thick to spread upon thin, 
Boft linen, as a salve, you will boH again until this poiat i« 
reached. 

He says, and I have no doubt of it, that it is good for all 
kinds of wounds, bruises, sores, burns, white swellings, rheu- 
matisms, ulcers, sore breasts, and even where there are 

grounds on the inside, it has been used with advantage, by 

ipplyin^ 1 plaster over the part. 

8. 8isson's Ointment. — Best brandy i pt. ; turpentine 1 gill ; 
camphor eum 1 oz. ; beefs gall i pt. ; (beefs gall bottled with i 
alcohol will keep nice for future use,) neats-foot oil 1 pt. Mix. 

This ointment, or properly liniment, is probably not equal- 
ed for reducing swellings which arise from bad bruises, or 
Bwellings of long standing ; rub it in for quite a length of 
time, then wet a flannel in it and wrap around the parts. 

4. Grtjen Ointment. — White pine turpentine and lard i lb 
each ; honey and bees- wax i lb. each ; melt all together and stii 
in i oz. of very finely pulverized verdigris. 

In deep wounds and old sores this works admirably, it 
keeps out proud flesh and heals beyond all calculation, keep- 
ing up a healthy discharge. It was used on a horse, which 
had run upon a fence stake, the stake entering under the 
ehoulder-blade and penetrating eighteen inches alongside of 
the ribs ; the ointment was introduced by stiffening linen 
cloth with warm beeswax, and rolling it up into what is 
called a teut, then smearing the ointment upon the tent, and 
pushing it to the bottom of the wound, which kept the out- 



MEDICAL DKPABTMENT. 127 

eide from healing until it healed from the bottom, and thus 
saved the horse, which everybody said must die ; and ol 
course everybody always knows. The man owning the horse 
was thrown from his buggy whilst the horse was running^ 
and had a leg broken ; the horse was well before the man. 
Hiram Sisson, an old farrier and farmer, of Crown Point 
Essex Co., N. Y., has used this and the one bearing his 
Dame, No. 3, several years, and speaks of them in the high- 
est terms. Mr. Wykoff,a few miles north of this city, has used 
this green ointment for several years, curing a deep cut in 
the thigh of a friend in a few days with it, which induced 
him to pay ten dollars to an English lady for the recipe ; 
since then he cured a bad case of chilblains, with it, upon a 
German boy who had not worn boot or shoe for three years, 
on their account. I have now known it for two years, curing 
cuts on horses' feet, from stepping over corn stubble in 
spring ploughing, by only a few applications. It is worth 
more than the cost of this book to any family who has not 
got it. 

This, mixed with equal parts of the " Magnetic," No. 11, 
ana the world cannot beat it for general use. 

5. Grekn Ointment — Honey and bees-wax, each i lb. ; spirits 
of turpentine 1 oz. ; wintergreen oil and laudanum, each 2 ozs. ; 
verdigris, finch; pulverized, J oz. ; lard H lbs ; mix by a stove 
fire, iu a copper kettle, heating slowly. 

I have given this green ointment, varying somewhat 
from the first, obtained of a gentleman at Jamestown, N. 
Y., who was selling it in large quantities, as he uses the 
spirits of turpentine instead of the white pine, for that fre- 
quently is hard to get, and by some this will be preferred, 
for the flesh of a few persons will inflame under the free use 
of verdigris, and it will be seen that this last recipe has not 
near as much of it in as the first. 

6. Dk. Kittredge's Celebrated Ointment, — For " Pim- 
ptjed-Face," " Prairie-Itch, &c. — Take a*pint bottle and put 
into it nitric acid 1 oz. ; quicksilver 1 oz., and let stand until the 
silver is cut ; then melt lard i lb. iu an earthen bowl and mix all 
together, and atir with a wooden spatula until cold. 

Old Dr. Kittrcdge is an Allopathic Physician, but his 
ointment has been known, over the whole State, as death to 
the " Michigan or Prairie Itch," and the Doctor recommends 



128 DR. chare's recipcs. 

it for Cancerous, Scrofulous, arid Syphilitic Ulcers, alao Salt. 
rheum, Ring-worms, " Pimpled Face," Chronic Inflammation 
of the eyelids, &c. Application. — For cufcancuus erup- 
tions, scratch ofi" the scab, warm the cerate, rub in thoroutch- 
ly once a day ; for running ulcers, spread a thin plaster, and 
not change oftener than once in thirty-six or forty-eight 
hours. 

7. Mead's Salt-Riteum OrNTMHNT. — Aquafortis 1 oz. ; quick- 
ail ver 1 oz. ; good hard soap dissolved so as to mix readily 1 oz. ; 
prepared chalk 1 oz., mixed with 1 lb of lard ; incorporate tlie 
above by putting the aquafortis and quicksilver into an earthen 
vessel, and when done effervescing, mix with the other ingredi- 
ents, putting the chalk in last, and add a little spirits of tuipen- 
tine, Sciy ^ a table-spoon. 

Mr. Mead is a resident of this city, advanced in age, over 
ninety years, and great confidence may be placed in this re- 
cipe. He sent it for insertion in the seventh edition of this 
work, and iminy have tried it with satisfaction. He first 
proved it on himself, after sufiering with Salt-rheum for ten 
years ; at first it came back after two years ; he then cured 
it again, and now has been free from it about fourteen years. 
His only object in pre-scnting me the recipe was to do good 
to his fellow-creatures. Some physicians think that if nitrio 
acid one ounce and three drachms, was put upon the quick- 
silver, and cut or dissolved by gentle heat, that it would bo 
a better way to prepare it; but I never wish to change when 
an article works as well as this does. 

8. Dr. Gibson, of Jamestown, Pa., says he has never failed 
in curing salt-rheum or leprosy, (meaning very bad skin dis- 
eases) with the following : 

First, wash the part with Castile soap and water, dry with a 
soft clotli, then wet the parts erupted with the tincture of iodiuB. 
and after this gets dry, anoint with citron ointment. When the 
eruption exists about parts not covered with clothing, use the 
following wash alternately with the tincture : Corrosive subli- 
mate 1 dr. ; sugar of lead 3 ozs. ; white vitriol 2 scruples ; Bal- 
ammoni.ac 3 drs. ; common salt 2 drs. ; soft water 1 pt. ; mix. 

He had a case — a young gentleman who was engaged to 
be married, but the lady would not marry him until cured 
from the fact that a sore of a leprous or obstinate character 
surrounded his head where the hat came in contact with it. 
But patience and nine months perseverance removed the 
scab frorm bis crown, and crowned him with a help-meet 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 120 

Let me here say, that ia any disease of long standing, 
Ct2>e some of the alterative medicines to cleanse the blood, 
while using the outward applications. The " Cathartic Al- 
terative" is especially adapted to these skin diseases, and 
should be continued some time, even if you are not anxious 
to get married. The Citron Ointment is kept by nearly all 
Druggists. 

9. White lead in sweet oil, used as an ointment, cured a 
lady in Lafayette, Ind., of a bad case of Salt-Rheum. 

10. Itch Ointment. — Unsalted butter 1 lb. ; Burgundy pitch 
2 oz. ; apirits of turpentine 3 ozs. ; red-precipitate, pulverized, 
1 i ozs. ; melt the pitch and add the butter, stirring well together ; 
then remove from the fire, and when a little cool add the spirits 
of turpt ntinc, and lastly the precipitate, and stir until cold. 

This will cure ail cases of psora, usually called " The 
Itch," tind many other skin eruptions, as pimples, blotches, 

6iQ. 

Dr. Beach thinks the animal which infests the skin, in 
real itch, is the result of the disease, whilst most authors 
think it the cause. 

11. Magnetic Ointment. — Said to be Trask's. — Lard, rai 
Bins, cut in pieces, and fine-cut tobacco, equal weights; siramei 
well together, then strain and press out all from the dregs. ■ 

The above is an excellent ointment, and looks like its 
namesake, and its action is really magnetic. Mix this in 
equal parts with the first Green Ointment No. 4, and it will 
make a good application in Piles, Salt-Rheum, and all cuta- 
neous or skin diseases, as well as cuts, bruises, &c. If used 
m Salt-Kheum, some of the alterative remedies must bo 
ta&^en at the same time, and long continued. 

12. Stramonium OiNTiMENT. — The probaJ)ility is, that 
for general use, no ointment will be found superior to this, 
yi hen properly made. It is kept by most Druggists, but it is 
not half as good, generally, as if made by the following direc- 
tions. I give large proportions, from the fact that it will be 
used ia large quantities. Stramonium is known by the 
namw of " Jimpson," « Stink- Weed," " Thorn-Apple," &c., 
from its thorny burr. 

Vifk about a bushel of the leaves, while yet green, having a 
suitable u-on kettle placed over a slow fire ; put m a few of the 
Vtuvcs and mash them as you keep adding until you get 

6 — OOPY EIGHT SBOURKD. 



130 DK. chase's REcrpse 

them all mashed into a pulpy mass, then put in lard 5 lb»., and 
stew to a crisp ; then strain and box for use. Those who live in 
towns and prefer to make it with less trouble, will purchase 1 
dr. of the soft extract, kept by druggists, rubbing it with a little 
water until it is of such a consistence as to allow it to be rubbed 
into an ointment with lard 1 oz. This will be better than the 
sale ointment, but not as good as the " Home Made," above. 

It is anodyne, (relieves pain,) in burns, scalds, old irrita- 
ble ulcers, skin diseases, painful hemorrhoids, (Piles,) and 
is discutient, (driving away swellings.) and very strengthen- 
ing to broken limbs, i. e., after the bones are healed to rub 
over the limb freely, and thoroughly ; it reduces the swell- 
ing and gives tone to the muscles, tendons, &c. 

We have recently known two cases of fracture, one a com- 
pound fracture of the ancle, the other of the wrist, both in 
persons well advanced in life ; in both cases strength re- 
turned very slow, but with double speed by the free appli- 
cation of this ointment ; and in the first case it undoubtedly 
prevented mortification. It is valuable, also, in painful oi 
swelled rheumatism. Or, perhaps what would be preferable, 
n such cases, is a tincture made of the seeds irom the 
horny-burr, two ounces, to alcohol and water, of each, a 
half-pint. If it is not found ahead of fhe " Tincture of 
Arnica," I will give you my head for a " Foot-Ball." In ap- 
plying it, wet cloths or brown paper, and bind upon the 
parts, keeping them well wet. To make this tincture, see 
•* Tinctures." 

13. Toad Ointment. — For sprains, strains, lame-hack, 
rheumatism, caked breasts, caked udders, &c., &c. 

Good sized live toads, 4 in number; put into boiling WHter 
and cook very soft ; tlien take them out and boil the water down 
to i pt., and add fresh churned, unsalted butter 1 lb. and sim- 
mer together ; at the last add tincture of arnica 2 ozs. 

This was obtained from an old Physician, who thought 
more of it than of any other prescription in his possession. 
Some persons might think it hard on toads, but you coaki 
not kill them quicker in any other way. 

JAUNDICE.— Dr. Pkabodt's Cure,— In its Worst FoRMa. 
— Red iodide of mercury 7 gra. ; iodide of potassium 9 grs. ; 
aqua dis. (distilled water,) 1 oz. ; mix. Commence by giving 6 
drops 3 or 4 times a day, increasing 1 drop a day until 12 or 15 
drops are given at a dose- Give in a little water inusBdiatfii^ 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 181 

•tier meals. If it causes a griping sensation in the bowels, and 
Rillness in the head when you get up to 12 or 15 drops, go back 
to 6 drops, an:! up again as before. 

In two very oad cases of jaundice, I have known the 
above to be entirely successful. 

i am aware that many persons will not use any prepara- 
tion containing mercury in any of its forms, while there are 
many others who would use them for that very reason ; my 
object is to benefit all, without strengthening the prejudice* 
©f ojiy ; for this reason I give you the following : 

2. Drink for Jatjkdice. — Tie up soot and saffron, equal 
parts, in a cloth to the size of half of a hen's egg, let it lie in a 
gla*i3 of water over night; in the morning put the yolk of an 
«gg, beaten, into this water, and drink it. Do this 3 mornings, 
»kipping 3, until 9 doses have been taken. 

1 am assured that it has proved successful in many bad 
cases. See also Soot Coffee, No. 12, amongst the Ague 
remedies. 

PILES. — Successful Remedies. — Internal Remedt. — 
Cream of tartar, jalap pulverized, senna, and flowers of sulphur 
1 oz. each ; nitrate of potash, (saltpetre;) i oz. ; golden seal 1 oz. ; 
thoroughly pulverize all together, in a mortar, and give a tea- 
Bpoon three times every day, or the dose may be varied to suit 
the condition of the patient, taking more or less to suit circum- 
Btauces, keeping the bowels in a solvent state. 

External Application. — Inner bark of the white oak tree, 
boil and strain, and boil again until you obtain i pt. of the ex- 
tract, very thick ; then add i pt. of the oil of the oldest and 
Btrongest bacon you can procure ; simmer together until a union 
takes place when cold. Then apply by the finger up the rec- 
tum every night until well. Be very strict to abstain from 
strong and stimulating diet. The above is a sure cure for blind 
or bleeding piles, in all cases, sooner or later. 

Dr. Hariman, of Andersontown, Ind., has been very sue- 
eessful with this plan of treating Piles ; and since I obtained 
the plan, now two years, I have had one opportunity of 
proving its efficiency, upon a gentleman who had been laid 
np for days, and sometimes weeks, with the complaint ; by 
a few applications of the external remedy he has been en- 
abled to keep directly along with his labor. 

2. Pile Cerate.— Carbonate of lead i oz. ; sulphate of mor- 
phia 15 grs. ; stramonium ointment 1 oz. ; olive oil 20 drop*, 
Mix, aa<* apply 3 times a day, or as occasion and pain may re- 



132 DR. CHASK'8 RECIPES. 

This cerate has been highly celebrated as a remedy ia 
Piles. It will relieve the pain most assuredly. Piles have 
been cured with lamp oil applied to the parts two or three 
times a day. Even tallow, or any simple ointment, is good 
for dry Piles, that is, for pain in those parts, coming on 
:?ften in the dead of night, without apparent cause. 

3. For External Piles, — The following Is very highlj 
spoken of: Take oyster shells, wash and burn them, thea 
Snely pulverize and rub up with fresh lard ; annoint with 
this, and take internally sulphur one ounce, mixed wiih 
three ounces of pulverized rosin ; take night and morning 
what will lay on a five cent piece. Take every day for the 
first week, then eyery three or four days, until well, contin- 
uing the ointment. 

4. Mrs. Moreiiead,— Of Danville, Ind., cured herself 
of Piles by simply sitting in a hip-bath of warm water, 
every time the pains would come on, after stools, or any 
other time, remaining in the bath until the pains left her. 
Her husband cured himself by sitting in cold water, and 
using upon the parts an ointment made by stewing celan- 
dine in fresh lard. I give these various plans, so that if 
one fails, a remedy may certainly be found amongst the 
many given. 

5. G, P. Rogers, of Ironton, 0., has known cases cured 
oy using the following ointment : Powdered opium and pow- 
dered rosin, one ounce each, mixed with one ounce of tallow, 
md anoint as required. 

6. Dr. D. W. Raymond, of Conneaut, O., says : Equal 
weights of glycerine and tannin will cure Piles, by anointing 
with it, and that very speedily ; also cures sore or cracked 
nipples in twenty-four hours, and is remarkably good for 
any excoriation, or sore, of the skin. I know that simple 
tallow introduced into the rectum is exceedingly beneficial 
in Piles, which satisfies me that any preparation containing 
oil or any kind of grease, is good. 

7. I have found in the scrap of an old newspaper, the 
following, and it is so e^isily tried, and speaks with so much 
certainty, and is so simple, that I give it an insertion : 

" Simple Cure for Pfl^s. — Mix one table-spoon of sul- 
Xjhwc with half a pint of milk, to be taken every day uctii 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. l'6ii 

favorabfa symptoms appear, and then occasionally, as the 
case may require. The above is a cheap, simple, and most 
infallible cure for that most painful and unpleasant disorder. 
It has been used with complete success in old and inveterate 
cases where individuals had spent scores of dollars in medi- 
cal advice. It is equally useful as a preventive. It will 
injure none, and only requires a trial." 

8. Paschal Mason, living near this city, cured a South- 
ern lady, visiting in the neighborhood, who was confined to 
the bed with them, by making a strong tea of the wild 
Bwamp-currant root, drinking occasionally for a few days 
only. 

9. JiMPSON Leaves and parsely, a handful of each, 8tew- 
ed in lard, one pound, and used as an ointment, has cured 
many cases. 

ANODYNES— Hoffman's Anodyne, or Golden Tincture. 
— Sulphuric ether 2 ozs. ; alcohol 4 ozs. ; and etherial oil f dr. ; 
mix. Dose — From half to two tea-spoons, (i dr. to 2 drs.) ac- 
cording to the urgency or pain lor which it is given. 

It is given in a little sweetened water, and much prefer- 
red by ihe Germans to laudanum, especially where laudanum 
causes sickness of the stomach. • It makes an excellent local 
application in neuralgia and other painful affections, being 
•second cousin to the Magnetic Tooth Cordial and Paralytic 
Liniment. 

2. Laudanum. — Best Turkey opium 1 oz., slice, and pour 
upon it boiling water 1 gill, and work it in a bowl or mortar until 
it ib dissolved ; then pour it into the bottle, and with alcohol ol 
76 per cent proofs pt., rinse the dish, adding the alcohol to the 
preparation, shaking well, and in 24 hours it will be ready for 
use. Dose — From 10 to 30 drops for adults, according to the 
strength of the patient, or severity of the pain. 

Thirty drops of this laudanum will be equal to one grain 
of opium. And this is a much better way to prepare it thaa 
putting the opium into alcohol, or any other spirits alone, 
for in that case much of the opium does not dissolve. Sea 
the remarks occuring al'ter Godfrey's Cordial. 

3. Paregoric. — Best opium ^ dr., dissolve it in about 2 tatle- 
spoons of boiling water ; then add benzoic acid ^ dr. ; oil of anise 
i a fluid dr. ; clanfled honey 1 oz. ; camphor gum 1 scruple ; al- 
cohol, 76 per cent, 11 fluid ozs. ; jdistilled water. 4^ fluid oz.s. ; 
macerate, (keep warm,) for two weeks. Doss — For children, 5 
to 20 drops, adults, 1 to 3 tea-spoona. 



134 DR. CnA8E'H ftECIPlCS. 

Used as an anodyne and antispasmodic, allays <»ough, re- 
lieves nausea and slight pains in the stomach a»d boweb, 
checks diarrhea, and procures sleep. Used prinmpallj for 
children. See the remarks after No. 5, below. 

4. Bateman's Pectoral Duops. — Opium in powd w, catechn 
in i)owcler, camphor gum, red saunders, rasped, of fwrh + oz. ; 
oil of anise 1 dr.; dilute alcohol, (alc(ihol of 76 per c*ut, and 
water in equal proportions,) 1 gal. Keep warm for 2 Weeks. 

The opium strength of this is about equal to paregoric, and 
it is used for similar purposes, and doses. See the remarks 
below. 

5. Godfrey's Cordial. — Dissolve pure carbonate of potassH 1 
oz. in water 5 qts., and add nice golden syrup or best molasses 
8 qts., and heat until they begin to simmer ; take off the scum, 
and add laudanum 9 ozs., and oil of sassafras 1 dr. Mix well. 
Used similar to the two last. 

Remarks. — It is a well known fact tkat much injury ia 
done to children by the use of anodynes, such as the above, 
and " Mrs. Winslow's Soothing Syrup," which is now taking 
the place, to a great extent, in towns of the foregoing, for I 
noticed a short time ago eighty-seven empty bottles with 
Mrs. Winslow's label upoli them, sitting on a counter of one 
of our drug stores, which led me to ask if they put up her 
syrup. The answer was no, a laOy in this city has fed that 
much to one child within the past eiyhteen months. 

The question might be asked, why do you tell people how 
to make any of these anodynes ? Because they are good in 
proper cases, when properly used, and to give a place for 
these remarks ; for those wiio are evil disposed will find a 
way to accomplish their designs, whilst the well disposed 
will, or can, act only from knowledge, and if they do not 
know the evils arising from the constant use of anodynes on 
children, are as liable to do evil as the evil disposed. 

Then let it be remembered that the constant use of opium 
in any of its preparations on children, or adults, disturbs th« 
nervous system, and establishes a nervous necessity for i\M 
continuation. Then use them only in severe pain, or ex. 
treme nervousness, laying them by again as soon as possible 
under the circumstances of the case. Of course we do not 
give a receipe for the Soothing Syrup spoken of, as its exact 
composition has not yet come out to the public ; but that \tf 



IIKDICAL DXPABTMEMT. 135 

BOotHng properties are owing to opium, there is not the least 
doubt. See " Carminatives," which are preferable to opiates, 
especially for children. 

RHEUMATISM' S — Infl amm atoby Rhettmatism— Bili. 
"WKiGnx's, AND OTHEU CuRES. — SulphuT and salt-petrc, of each 
1 oz. ; gum guaiac i oz. ; colchicum root, or seed, and nutmegs, 
of each i oz. ; all to be pulverized and mixed with simple syrup 
or molasses 2 oz. Dose — One tea-spoon every 3 hours until it 
moves the bowels rather fi-eely ; then 3 or 4 times daily until 
cured. 

Mr. "Wright, of the Niagara Hotel, Toledo, 0., has several 
times proved this to be an excellent medicine, and since I 
obtained it I found a man at Marshall, Mich., one Saturday 
evening, with his feet and legs so swollen with this disease, 
that he could but just crawl with two crutches. I filled this 
prescription and gave him a tea-spoon of it every two hours, 
until it moved his bowels, then every four hours, and on 
Monday noon he could walk quite comfortably without cana 
or crutch, the medicine costing only twenty cents. 

2. Rheumatic Alterative. — In Rheumatism of long 
standing, the following preparation has often proved vei"y 
valuable : 

Colchicum seed, and black cohosh root, of each i oz., the root 
to be bruised ; best rye whisky 1 pt. ; put together and let stand 
3 or 4 days. Dose — From one tea-spoon to a table-spoon 3 times 
daily, before meals. 

The action will be to loosen the bowels, or cause a little 
sickness at the stomach ; and the dose may be modified not 
to cause too great an efiect upon the patient either way, but 
increasing the dose if necessary until one of these specific 
actions is felt, and lessening it if the action is too great in 
any case. 

3. Rheumatic Linimekt. — Olive oil, spirits of camphor, and 
chloroform, of each 3 ozs. ; sassafras oil 1 tea-spoon. First add 
the oil of sassafras to the olive oil, then the spirits of camphor, 
and shake well before putting in the chloroform, shaking when 
used, keeping it corked, as the chloroform evaporates very fast 
if left open. Apply 3 or 4 times daily, rubbing it well, and al- 
ways towards the body. 

1 had a brother-in-law cured of a very bad case of inflam- 
matory, or swelling rheumatism, by the use of this liniment — 
•ooomplished in about four days, without other treatment 



136 DR. CHASS'S RfeCTPBS. 

He paid five dollars for the recipe after the core. But 1 
would recommend the use of this in connection with " Bill 
Wright's Cure," above, feeling perfectly assured that no 
attack will stand before the internal and external combina- 
tion. 

4. J. B. HiTCHCox, Ypsilanti, Mich., uses spirits of ti-.rpentine 
1 pt. ; tar 2 tea-spoons ; oil ot vitriol 1 tea-spoou, mixing in a 
mug ; then sets them on fire, letting it biun 15 minutes, and bot- 
tle for use. 

He bathes the parts freely twice daily with this prepara- 
tion, then binds on the mashed tory-weed, as mentioned un- 
der the head of " lleducing Swellings," and gives a little 
spirits of turpentine internally. 

6. Alvah Raymond — Takes Rum 1 pt. ; neats-foot oil i pt.. 
or if the joint is stiff, skunk's oil instead of the Dther ; spirits o' 
turpentine 1 gill, and simmers them together, and bottle for use, 
rubbing it in thoroughly 3 times daily. 

He also directs to soak the feet in hot water, scraping the 
bottoms of the feet with an old knife; then he has poke 
root roasted and mashed, mixing with it tar and sulphur t<7 
form drafts for the feet. With this method of treatment he 
assures me he has been very successful for 30 years. And 
it bears so strong a resemblance to Dr. Kittredge's prepara- 
tion, next following, for stiffened joints in rheumatism, that 
it gives me double confidence in them both. 

6. Dr. Kittuedgr's Remedy for Rheumatism and Stiff 
Joints. — Strong camphor spirits 1 pt. ; neats-foot, coon, bear, 
or skunk's oil 1 pt. ; spirits of turpentine i pt. Shake the bottle 
when used, and apply 3 times daily, by pouring on a little at a 
time and rubbing in all you can for 20 to 30 minutes. 

The old Doctor recommends this as a sure cure for chronic 
rheumatism, sprains, stiff-joints where they have not formed 
an anchylosis, that is, if the bones have not actually grown 
together ; and as remarked in connection with his ointment, 
No. 6, he has been a very celebrated Physician for many 
years ; but like many other men with superior minds, oh ! 
Low fallen. Rum, and its advocates, have got a most fear 
ful account to balance. 

7- French and Other Remedies for Chronic Rheu- 
matism. — Dr. Bonnet, of Graulbet, France, states in a 
letter to the Abeille Medicale, that he " has been long ic 
the habit of rrescribing : 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 187 

" The essential oH of turpentine for frictions against rheuma- 
tism. And that he has used it himself with perfect success, 
having almost instantaneously got rid of rheumatic pains in 
both knees and in the left shoulder." 

He was led to make the prescription from having used the 
oH of turpentine to wash coal-tar and other sticking mixtures 
from his hands. After having washed his hands in scip 
and water, and drying them, a pricking sensation like an 
electric spark upon the knuckles from a machine, lasting 
about two hours, was always experienced, and it is to thia 
exciting action that he attributes its efficacy. It may be 
used twice or thrice daily. 

8. Chronic rheumatism has been cured in twcnty-foui 
hours, after two years' suffering, by using alcohol, spirits of 
turpentine, sweet spirits of nitre, and oil of juniper, equal 
parts of each ; mix ; rub well into the parts, and take ten 
drops at bed time in water. 

9. BiTTEKS FOR Chronic Kmeumatism. — Prickly-ash berries, 
spikenard root, yellow poplar and dog-wood barks, of each \ lb. ; 
all pulverized and put into a gallon jug, and fill it up with bran- 
dy. Dose — A wine-glass of it is to be taken 3 times daily be- 
fore meals. 

A baker of Lafayette, Ind., was cured by the use of thia 
amount, of a very bad case of this disease of long standing. 

10. David Mowry, of Greenville, Ohio, says yellow poplar, 
dog-wood, prickly-ash, wild cherry and white-ash barks of the 
trees, equal quantities of each, a good large handful, boiled in 
2 gals, of water, to 1, and add 1 gal. of good old rye, will, if 
taken freely 3 times daily, cure the worst inflammatory rheuma- 
tiiua in the world. 

There is no question But what both of these preparations, 
and the next also, are good, if made sufficiently strong with 
the barks. But I should consider them much more appli- 
cable in chronic cases, or rheumatism of long standing ; and 
in these cases very applicable indeed, and I am well satis- 
fied that no one will take them for the spirits. * 

11. CuKONic Rheumatism, has been cured by taking 
the bark of a bearing crab-apple tree, and putting a suffi- 
cient amount of it into whisky to make it very strong, then 
taking a wine-glass three times daily, until a gallon was used. 

12. Green Bay Indian's Remedy for RnEUMATisM. — Wahoo, 
bark of the root, 1 oz. ; blood root 1 oz. ; black cohosh root 2 ozB. ; 



138 DB. chase's RECIPIS 

flwamp hellebore i oz. ; prickly ash, bark or berries 1 oz. ; pok« 
root, cut fine, 1 oz. ; rye whisky 1 qt. ; let stand a few days be- 
fore using. Dose — One tea-spoon every 3 or 4 hours increasing 
the dose to 2 or 3 tea-spoons, as the stomach wUl bear. 

Soak the feet well and go to bed, covering up warm, and 
taking the '' Sweating Drops" between each dose, as there 
directed, for three or four hours, and repeat the sweating 
eyery day until the disease surrenders to the treatment. If 
at any time tlie heiid feels too full, or the stomach sicken* 
too much, drop down to the first dose of a tea-spoon, or evea 
less, if necessary. 

This prescription is from Jacob S. Cornelius, an Indian 
of Green Bay, who was very successful in Illinois, with it, in 
this disease. 

13. I know an old physician who assures mo that he hmt 
cured cases where all other remedies failed, with saltpetre, 
beginning with twenty grains, and doubling the dose every 
three or four hours, until it reached half an ounce, in a very 
robust and plethoric patient ; but this dose would be too 
large to venture upon by persons not of a plethoric habit. 
But as it is mostly prescribed, by putting a table-spoon to a 
pint of whisky, then a tea-spoon for a dose ; you might as 
well expect to dip the Atlantic into the Pacific with a tea- 
spoon, as to cure rheumatism in that slow way. It may be 
token in quantities from half an ounce to an ounce and 
a half in the twenty-four hours, being largely diluted with 
water. If pain should come on in the stomach, under its 
use, stop it at once, and give large quantities of mucilaginous 
drinks, such as slippery-elm water, gum-arabic water, ftax- 
Bced tea, &c. 

14. Nkw Remedy. — Kerosene oil 3 ozs. ; skunk's oil 1 oa. ; 
mix, and shake when applied. Put it on quite freely, and heat it in 
by the stove, or by means of a hot shovel. 

A firm of grocers, Slawson & Geer, of this city, have been 
using this mixture during the past winter upon their own 
persons, and have recommended to many others amongst 
them, one of the Clergymen, and also the President of the 
University, and so far as they know, it has proved very sue- 
<!e?sful, relieving the pain directly. 

15. One of our physicians in the city has used a preparation 
rery nearly resembling the above, but varying sufBcient to 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 18t 

satisfy myself that any other animal oil will do as well aa 
that from the highly-flavored one, above mentioned. 

He used kerosene oil 2 ozs. ; neats-foot oil 1 oz., oil of origanum 
i oz. ; mixed and shaken as used. 

The smell of the kerosene is not very pleasant, but if a 
pair of ankles and feet, badly swollen, so much so that you 
could not walk on thera for months, could be cured in two or 
three weeks, as it was in this case, it might be well to put 
up with its disagreeable smell. Rub and heat it in thor* 
oughly twice daily. 

ASTHMA — Reatedies. — Elecampane, angelica, comfrey, and 
spikenard roots, with lioarhound tops, of each 1 oz. ; bruise and 
cteep in honey 1 pt. Dose — A table-spoon, taken hot every few 
minutes, until relief is obtained, then several times daily until 
a cure is effected. 

It cured a young lady, near the " Falls of the Ohio," 
whom the doctors said it was wicked to disturb ; " let her 
die in peace," was their advice to the parents. An old lady, 
instead, let her live in peace. It will be found very excel- 
lent in any cough ; even low consumptives will find great 
relief from its use. 

2. Dr. J. K. Finley, of Pittsburg, cured a lady with 
whom I afterwards became acquainted, and from the com- 
pleteness of the cure, I was induced to write to the doctor 
and obtain the prescription. It is as follows : 

Oil of tar 1 dr. ; tincture of veratrum viride 2 drs. ; simple 
Byrup 2 drs.; mix. Dose — For adults 15 drops 3 or 4 times 
daily. 

I have very great confidence in this prescription. 

3. A lady at Yellow Springs, O., tells me that she cured herself 
of Asthma, by using, for her common drink, a tea made of the 
leaves of common chestnut, which had fallen from the tree in 
antra n ; sweeten well, and continue its use for 2 or 3 months. 

She used it for a month at first, and it returned,, when 
she continued its use for two months ; and ten years have 
elapsed without its return. It is certainly safe as well as 
pimple, and of easy trial. 

Lobelia is considered by some a specific in asthma, but 
tKe prejudice against it is so great I forbear speaking fur- 
sKer of it ; but : 

4. Iodide of potasium has cured a bad case of asthma, by 



140 DR. cqase's recipes. 

taking 5 gr. doses, 3 times daily. Take i oz. and put U into • 
vial and add 32 tea-spoons of water — then 1 tea-spoon of it wUl 
contain the 5 grs., which put into i gill more ot water, and dnuk 
before meals. 

COMPOSITION POWDER— Thompsons.— " Bayberry bark 
2 lbs. ; hemlock bark 1 lb. ; ginger root 1 lb. ; cayenne peppci 
2 ozs. ; cloves 2 ozs. ; all finely pulverized and well mixed. 
Dose — One-half of a tea-spoon of it, and a spoon of sugar ; p^al 
them into a tea-cup and pour it half full of boiling water ; l?t il 
stand a few minutes and fill the cup with milk, and drink freely 
If no milk is to be obtained, fill up the cup with hot water. 

"This, in the first stages and less violent attacks of diseas* 
is a valuable medicine, and may be safely employed in ali 
cases. It is good in relax, pain in the stomacli and bowels, 
and to remove all obstructions caused by cold. A few doses, 
the patient being in bed with a steaming stone at the feet, 
or having soaked the feet fifteen or twenty minutes in hot 
water, drinking freely of the tea at the same time, will cure 
a bad cold, and often throw off disease in its first stages." 
I use it, taking, or giving, lobelia emetics as mentioned under 
the head of " Eclectic Emetics." I use it also, as a : 

"2. Dyspkpttc Tea. — Where an attack has been broiiglit 
on by over-indulgence at an extra rich meal, you will find 
iiinnediate and generally perfect relief by having a cup of 
this tea made," atid drinking about one-half of it fifteen min- 
utes before meals, and the balance just as you sit down to 
the meal, not taking any other fluid at all until after diges- 
tion i.s over, following up the same plan for a few days or 
weeks, as may be necessary. It stimulates the stomach to 
action, causing dijestion and absorption, preventing also the 
accumulation of gas, which is the cause of eructations of 
wind from the stomach, commonly called belching, and gives 
tone to the whole system. 

A cup of this tea taken when going out into extreme cold, 
will be found a better warmer than the whisky or any other 
arient spirit, which so many resort to upon such occasions; 
and, what is best of all, it will be found : 

3. A Perfect Cure for Drunkenness. — hH those 
who are accustomed to the excessive use of ardent, spirits, 
and who wish to step the practice, I say, let such have a 
oup of this tea made, as abp^^i directed, and drink a part of 



MEDICAL DErARTMENT. 141 

it immediately ou rising in the morning, and th« balanc* 
just before meal time, keeping entirely away from tha 
places of temptation, they will find a warm, healthy glow 
spreading from the stomach over the whole system, with a 
desire for food, instead of " rot-gut/' Follow this up faitk- 
fully two or three times daily, or whenever the craving begins, 
for the accustomed stimulus, for a few days or weeks, if 
necessary, and it will be found that the cayenne, which is 
the purest stimulant in the whole Materia Medica, with its 
assistant, the bayberry, which stimulate without an after 
prostration, have gradually supplied and satisfied the previ- 
ous false appetite or cravings of the stomach ; whilst the 
combination has toned up the stomach together with the 
whole system, and again you find yourself a man. 
But remember, oh, remember ! your only safety is i?i keep- 
ing entirely away from places where intoxicating spirits are 
kept or sold ! 

A hiu-ned child will not play with fire. I would to God 
that a burned man was equally wise. For not one in a thoiv- 
sand can resist the solicitation of enemies, (called friends,) 
to take a glass, just one, and that one glass acts like fresh 
coals upon extinguisJied brands, and the fire goes ahead again 
with a hundred fold more energy than if thrown upon wood 
which had never been charred ; hence, the propriety of the 
sentence " plucked as a brand from the everlasting burn- 
ings," — for if re-kindled there is but little prospect of another 
extinguishment of the raging fire. Dr. Thompson, notwith- 
standing all that has been said against him, has done more 
good than any other medical man that ever lived ; for he set 
the people to studying for themselves. 

STIMXTLAJ^T— In Low Fevers, and After Uteroje Hem- 
orrhages. — MiSTURA Spiritus vtni Gallici.— Best brandy, 
and cinnamon water, of each 4 fluid ozs,; the yolks of 2 eggs, 
well beaten ; loaf sugar ^ oz. ; oil of cinnamon 2 drops ; mix- 
DofiK — From i to 1 (fluid) oz. ; as often as required. This makes 
X)th eat and drink. Of course, any other flavoring oils can b« 
used, if preferred, in place of the cmnamon. 

This mixture is an imitation of the well-known compound 
termed " egg-flip." It is an exceedingly valuable stimulant 
and restorative, and is employed in the latter skiges of low 
Feverfl, and in extreme exhaustioD from atorine homorrhagea 



142 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

It may be used in place of the " egg-nog" spoken of in th« 
treatment of consumption, No. 6. 

ALTERATIVES.— Syrup or Blood Purifier.— Honduras 
sarsaparilla 12 ozs. ; guaiacum shavings 6 ozs. ; ■winter green leaf 
4 ozs. ; sassafras-root bark 4 ozs. ; elder flowers 4 ozs. ; yelloTV 
dfjck 3 ozs. ; burdock-root 4 ozs. ; dandelion-root 6 ozs. ; bitter- 
Bweet-root 2 ozs. ; all bruised. Place these ingredients in a suit- 
able vessel and add alcohol 1 pt., with water sufficient to cover 
handsomely, set them in a moderately warm place for 3 or 4 
days, pour off 1 pt. of the tincture and set it aside until you add 
water to the ingredients and boil to obtain the strength, pour ofiF 
and add more water and l)oil again, then boil the two waters down 
to 1 qt. ; strain, and add tlie liquor first poured off, and add 2^ 
lbs. crushed or coffee sugar, and simmer to form a syrup ; when 
cool, bottle and seal up for use, Dose — One to 2 table-spoon*, 
according to the age and strength of the patient, J hour boV • 
nioals and at bed time. 

This, or any othar alterative, when given, should be fol- 
lowed up for weeks or months, according to the disease for 
which it is prescribed, as scrofula, and for every disease 
depending upon an impure condition of the blood. It oughx 
to be used in sore eyes of long standing, old ulcers, salc- 
rheum, &c. I would not give this for Jayne's Alterativo, 
nor Swain's, Townsend's or Ayer's Sarsaparillas, because 
I know it is good, and we also know what it is made of. 

2. Altebativb, Vert Strok^g. — Poke, mandrake, yellow 
dock, sassafras, blue flag, roots, and bark of the roots, guaiac 
wood raspmgs, and sweet elder flowers, of each 4 ozs. ; caraway 
seed 3 ozb. ; bruise the roots, and put to the whole, alcohol 1 qt., 
and water to cover all handsomelj'- ; let stand 3 or 4 days in a 
warm place as the last recipe above, making every way the same 
except to pour off 1 qt., instead of 1 pt., as in the first, of spirit ; 
then boil the waters to 1 qt., adding 4 lbs. of sugar with the qt 
of spirit tincture. The dose being only 1 table-spoon 4 times 
daily as above. 

But if that amount should make the bowels too loose, re- 
duce the quantity ; and if that amount does not act upon 
ihe bowels at all, increase the dose to keep the bowels solv- 
ent. This may be used in the most inveterate diseases ei* 
long standing, syphilis not excepted. 

8. Alterative Cathartic — Powder. — Rochelle salta 5 oz8.| 
oream of tartar 2 ozs. ; sulphur 1 oz. ; (epsom salts may be udet* 
but are not quite as good,) place the salts in a dripping-iAn and 
set in the stove oven until all the water of crystalization is dried 
out ; then place all in a mortar and rub finely and thoroughly 



MEDIOAL DEPAKTMENT. 14S 

togetliei. DosB — Mix up a few spoons of the powder with mo 
.asses ; then take a tea-spoon every 3 or 4 hours until a fre» 
cathartic action is kept up for 24 to 36 hours ; then take once ov 
twice daily only, to act on the blood, increasing once in 10 day* 
to get up the cathartic action, as at first. 

This alterative is especially valuable in any disease of 
the skin, as itch, pimples, salt-rheum, and any other erup- 
tions where an outward application is being made, or ia about 
to be made, also valuable in sore eyes. 

<L Altkrative, Tonic, and Cathartic Bitters. — Best rye 
whisky, and water, of each, 1 qt. ; best ungroimd Peruvian bark, 
Colombo root, and prickly-ash berries, of each, 2 ozs. ; prickly- 
ash, black cherry, and poplar barks, of each, 1 oz. ; poke-root, 
mandrake-root, and cloves, of each, i oz. ; all to be the dry arti- 
cles, and all to be pulverized before putting into the spirits ; 
Bhake every day for a week, by which time it will be ready for 
lase. DosK — One to 2 table-spoons at morning and evening 
meals. 

Although this alterative is mentioned last in the list, yei 
it is not least in value. I first made this prescription for my 
own use, feeling that I needed something of just such » 
nature, and it worked so admirably that I gave it to others. 
It has given such entire satisfaction, that I am now at the 
tenth edition, giving it a place to do a greater good than if 
kept from the world. 

If, in any case, it causes any griping sensations, or too 
great action upon the bowels, lessen the dose, and if neither 
of these actions are felt, increase the dose, or take it three 
times daily. I think any of the fruit wines will do in 
place of the spirits and water, by adding alcohol one-half 
pint. 

It will be found very valuable in all cases of weakness 
from general debility, and especially so when tLe liver is 
inactive, known by constant costiveness. 

After using out the spirits, it may be filled again iu the 
same way. It will be found very valuable in ague, ana after 
all fevers, preventing relapse, and strengthening up the gen- 
eral system. 

DIURETICS— Pill, Drops, Decoction, &c.— Solidified co- 
paiba 2 parts ; alcoholic extract of cubebs 1 part ; formed into 
I)ill8 with a little oil of juniper. Dosb — One or 2 pills 3 or 4 
times daily. Druggists can obtain them of Tilden & Co., New 
York. 



144 DR. OHABE'8 recipes 

This pill has been found very valuable in affecticns of th» 
kidneys, bladder, and urethra, as inflammation from gravel, 
gonorrhea, gleet, whites, lucorrhca, common inflammations. 
&c. For giving them a sugar coat, see that heading, if de- 
sired. 

2. Diuretic Dkops. — Oil of cubebs i oz. ; sweet spirits of 
nitre ^ oz. ; balsam of copaiba 1 oz. ; Harlem Oil 1 bottle ; oil 
of lavender 20 drops ; spirits of turpentine 20 drops ; mix. 
Dose — Ten to 25 drops, as the stomach will bear, 3 times daily. 

It may be used in any of the above diseases with great 
satisfaction. 

3. Diuretic Decoction. — Queen of the meadow, dwarf- 
elder, yellow dock and poke-roots, of each 1 oz. ; dandelion, bur- 
dock, American Sarsaparilla, and blue flag roots, of each i oz. ; 
grind or pound all up, and thoroughly mi.x. Dose — Take up a 
pinch with the ends of the fingers and thumb of one hand, say J 
to J oz., and pour upon it 1 pi. of boiling water, steeping awhile ; 
when cool, take a swallow or two sufficiently often to use up the 
pt. in the course of the day. 

Follow this plan two or three days, or as may be necessary, 
resuming the course once in ten or twelve days. It may be 
used in all obstructions of the kidneys, where the urine la 
high colored or scanty. 

4. DruKETic TiNCTUKK. — Green or growing spearmint mashed, 
put into a bottle and covered with gin, is an excellent diuretic. 

5. Diuretic for CniLDREX. — Spirits of nitre — a few drops in 
ft little spearmint tea — is all sufficient. For very young children 
pumpkin seed, or watermelon seed tea is perhaps the best. 

DROPSY. — Syrup and Pills. — Queen of the meadow root 
dwarf-elder flowers, berries, or inner bark, juniper berries, horse- 
radish root, pod milkweed or silkweed, often called, root of each 
4 ozs. ; prickly-ash bark or ben'ies, mandrake-root, »'=i*<»rpweet 
bark of the root, of each 2 ozs. ; white mustard seed 1 oz. • nol- 
laud gin 1 pt. 

l*our boiling water upon all, except the gin, and keep "hoi 
for twelve hours ; then boil and pour off twice, and boi. 
down to three quarts and strain, adding three pounds of 
sugar, and lastly the gin. Dose — Take all the stomach will 
bear, four times daily, say a wine-glass or more. This will 
be used in connection with the following : 

2. Dropsy Pills. — Jalap 50 grs. ; gamboge 30 grs. ; podo 
phyllin 20 grs. ; elaterium 12 grs. ; aloes 30 grs. ; cayenne &e grs. ; 
east^e «oap shaved, dried and pulverized, 20 grs. ; croton ou 90 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 145 

Irops ; powder all finely, and mix thoroughly ; tlien form into 
pill mass by using a thick mucilage made of equal pa/ts of gum 
arable and tragacanth, and divide into S gr. pills. Dose — One 
pill every 2 days for the first week, then every 3 or 4 days until 
the water is evacuated by the combined aid of the pill with the 
above syrup. 

In this disease the work must be very thorough, and I 
am inclined to think that if our directions are followed, that 
whoever find themselves under the operations of the medir 
eine will consider the work to be about as thorough as we 
expect. Some sickness of the stomach may be expected 
under the operation of the pill, but never mind it, go ahead 
and four or five days will satisfy most persons of the value 
of the treatment ; for you may expect to see the greatest 
evacuations, front and rear, that you ever have witnessed. 
Tf the patient should become weak and exhaust 5d under tha 
continued treatment, slack up a little and throw in beef tea, 
wine, &c., with rich nourishing diet, and no danger need be 
apprehended. The above pill will be found very valuable 
in bilious colic, and other cases hard to operate upon. They 
have operated in fifteen minutes^ but not usually so quick, 
of course j but it will generally be found best not to ven- 
ture over one pill at a dose ; two have been taken, however* 
but they made a scattering among the waste paper, causing 
fourteen evacuations, having to call for the second " cham- 
ber" the first fire. Some have called them the " Irish Pill,*' 
from their resemblance to the Irish girl with her brush and 
Bcrub-broom. They make clean work. 

IRRITATING PLASTER. -Extensively Used by Ecleo- 
rics. — Tar 1 lb. ; bur^indy pitch \ oz. ; white pine turpentine * 
oz. ; rosin 2 ozs. Boil the tar, rosin and gum together a short 
time, remove from the fire, and stir in finely pulverized man- 
drake root, blood root, poke root, and Indian turnip, of each 1 oz. 

This plaster is used extensively lu all cases where counter 
irritation or revulsives are indicated ; as in chronic afieo- 
tions of the liver and lungs, or diseased joints, &c. It ia 
applied by spreading it on cloth and over the seat of pain, 
renewing it every day, wiping off any matter which may be 
on it, and also wiping the sore produced by it with a dry 
cloth, until relief is obtained, or as long as the patient caa 
bear it. Always avoid wetting the sore, as it will cause iu- 
flammation, and you will be obliged to heal it «p imme^ 

DB. chase's BECIPES. 



146 IJB. ohase's becipxs. 

ately, instead of which the design is to keep a running ton 
as long as may be necessary, using at the same time consti- 
tutional remedies as the case may require. 

INFLAMMATION, — Op the Liver.— Inflammation 
of the liver, or as it is generally called, " Liver complaint," 
is of two forms, acute and chronic. The acute form ia 
known by a sense of weight and pain in the right side, un- 
der the short ribs, and often in that shoulder, or between 
the shoulders, pale or yellow appearance, often great depres- 
sion of spirits, not much appetite, costiveness, high colored 
urine, &c., and often with fever, and sometimes with pain 
similar to that of pleurisy, difficult breathing, dry cough, 
and sometimes sickness, with vomiting. 

In the chronic, or long standing complaint, in addition to 
the above, there is generally flatulence, with pain in the 
stomach, foul breath and mouth, coated tongue, indigestion, 
eyes yellow, stools clay colored, with great weakness and slow 
emaciation, frequently going on to ulceration, giving symp- 
toms as mentioned under the head of " Ointment for Ulcer- 
ated Liver," &c. 

In the acute form you will pursue the same course aa 
mentioned under the head of "Pleurisy," besides taking 
either of the Liver Pills or Liver Drops mentioned below, in 
full cathartic doses, until relieved ; but in the chronic form, 
the Pills, in connection with the " Ointment," or " Irrita- 
ting Plaster," will be found all sufficient, unless Jaundice 
has already set in j then look to the directions under that 
disease. 

2. Eclectic Liver I^l.— Podnphjlliu 10 grs. ; leptaodrln 
20 grs. ; sanguinarin* 10 grs. ; extract of dandelion 20 grs. ; 
formed into 20 pills, by being moistened a little with some es- 
sential oil, as cinnamon or peppermint, &c. Dose — In chronic 
diseases of the liver, take 1 pill at night, for several days, or 2 
may be taken at first to move the bowels; then 1 daily. 

Im connection with the pill, wear the " Irritating Plaster," 
dver the region of the liver, washing the whole body daily, 
by means of towels, and rubbing dry, being careful noe to 
wet the sore caused by the plaster ; as an active cathartio 

•NOTK— These articles are kept bj Eclectic Phyaicuins, and we beftuiuiiiy W 
b« kept b; Druggitta generally. 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 147 

from two to three pills may be taken in all cases where cal 
omel or blue pills are considered applicable by " Old School 
Physicians." 

8. Liver Pill Imtroved.— Leptandrin 40 grs. ; podophyllin 
and cayenne, 30 grs. each ; sanguinarin, iridin and ipecac 15 grs. 
each ; see that all are pulverized and well mixed ; then form into 
pill-mass by using -J- dr. of the soft extract of mandrake and a 
lew drops of anise oil, then roll out into 3 grain pills. 

Dose — Two pills taken at bed time will generally operate 
by morning ; but there are those that will require three, 
whilst one pill every night on retiring, will be found the 
best corrective of the liver of anything now in use, for com- 
mon cases J but in very bad cases where the pill doef not 
arouse the liver to action, take the following : 

4. LrvER Drops for Obstina.te Cases. — Tinctures of man- 
drake and blue flag roots, of each 1 oz. ; and of culvers root 2 ozs. 
Dose — For adults, 1 tea-spoon every 3 to 5 hours, increasing the 
dose gradually until you reach two or three tea-spoons, if the 
mouth does not become sore and the stomach not sickened nor 
the bowels moved too freely. 

These drops are especially applicable in liver and spleen 
enlargements, and cases of very long standing disease of these 
organs ; and in such cases it may be well to use externally, 
over the liver and spleen, especialy if there is believed to be 
ulceration, the following : 

5. OlNTMEXT FOR ULCERATED LiVER, AGUE CAKE, &C. — Take 

a good handful of smartweed, wonnwood, and the bark of sumac 
root ; boil all together to get the strength, then strain and boil 
down carefully to about i pt., adding lard J lb., and simmering 
together ; when nearly cool add a tea-spoon of spirits of turpen 
tine. 

Apply at night, by rubbing it over the liver or other 
organ which may have pain or disease located upon it, heat- 
ing it in well by the stove or by a heated iron, putting it on, 
rubbing, and heating it in three or four times each applica- 
tion. 

I obtained this prescription from the Rev. Mr. Fi-aser, of 
this city, whose nephew was so afflicted with ulceration of 
the liver that a council of Doctors said he must die ; the 
pain waa situated just under the short ribs of the right side, 
completely bowing him together, like the one of old who 
could " in no wise lift up herself." He had had a sister, 



148 Da. chase's recipes. 

whr died some years before ; but at this juDcture ^ Am mm 
the invalid dreamed of meeting her, and sh'! gav« hiK ^w 
pr iscription, which he told his mother in the morning ; and 
■jhe would not rest until it was tried, and it entirely cured 
*^fle patient. The Elder tells me he has given it to a great 
iiany persons, for pains of internal organs, ague cakes, &c., 
and that it has given great satisfaction — a perfect cure. The 
two first named articles I know to be good for what they are 
here recommended, but they are generally used by boiling 
and laying the herlDS over the affected parts, or by steaming 
the parts over the herbs. I see no reason why spirits frwn 
the other world should not be permitted to communicate 
with the spirits of friends here; but that they are so per- 
mitted, to communicate in such a way as to be understood 
by us frail mortals, I never did, nor do I now believe, neither 
i^.o I believe this to be the_;??-s^ dream of this character which 
I'as proved valuable. There are many things of a similar 
'haracter in the history of a number of individuals in th« 
'•ange of my acquaintance, more singular and more unao 
countable than the above, which would be very interesting 
K) relate, but the nature of this work does not admit. If 
tjiis shall benefit any, I shall be satisfied. 

PILLS— Nervous Pill. — Alcoholic extract of the Ignaiia 
Amara, (St. Ignatius bean) 30 grs. ; powdered gum arable 10 grs. 
Make into 40 pills. 

Dose — Une pill to be taken an hour after breakfast, and one 
1 an hour before retiring at night. Half a pill is enough for young, 
or verv old or yoxy delicate persons. Tlie pills may be easily 
cut if laid on a damp cloth for a few moments. 

Theso. pills will be found applicable in bad Dyspepsia, 
nervou* hsadache, sleeplessness, palpitation of the heart, con- 
fusion of thought, determination of blood to the head, fail- 
ure of ipemory, and all other forms of general nervous de- 
bility, no matter of bow long standing. Where a prominent 
advantage is discovced in two weeks from the commence- 
ment of the mcdicire, one a day will suffice until all are 
taken. 

The extract is made by pulvenzing the seed or bean, and 
putting it into alcohol from ten to fourteen davs, then evap- 
orating to the consistence for working i«to pill ma-ss with tha 
powdered gum. 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 1*9 

This is the prescription of the Rev. John M. Dagnal, the 
' Retired Physician," brought out in 1854, and to my at- 
tention, and that of the medical class, by Prof. Palmer, in the 
University of Michigan, in the winter of '56-7, He said 
when this prescription first came out he was practicing in 
Chicago, and many persons sent for the pills, and derived 
much benefit from their use, at first, but soon after they 
seemed to lose their efiicacy, and he presumed the reason to 
be that the demand was so great that something else waa 
substituted in place of the extract. This being the case, 
druggists ought to prepare the extract themselves, so as to 
furnish patients with the genuine article for home use. It 
i» undoubtedly a splendid prescription, if put up with fideUty 

2. Pills — To Sugar Coat. — Pills to be sugar-ooated 
must be very dry, otherwise they will shrink away from the 
coating and leave it a shell, easily crushed off. When they 
are dry, you will : 

Take rtarch, gum arable, and white sugar, equal parts, rubbing 
them very fine m a marble mortar, and if damp, they must be 
dried belbre rubbing together ; then put the powder into a suita- 
ble pan, or box, for shaking; now put a few pills into a small 
tin box having a cover, and pour on to them just a little simple 
eyrup, b! making well to moisten the surface only, then throw into 
the box of powder and keep in motion until completely coated, 
dry, and smooth. 

If you aro not very careful you will get too much syrup 
upon the pi' Is; if you do, put in more and be quick about 
it to prevent moistening the pill too much, getting them into 
the powder as soon as possible. 

3. Anodyne Pills. — Morphine 9 grs. ; extract of stramonium 
STid hyo^ciamus, of each 18 grs ; form into pill-mass by using 
solution of gum arable and tragacanth, quite thick. Divide into 
40 pills. Dose — In case of severe i^ain or nervousness, 1 pUl 
taken at bed time will be found to give a quiet night of rest. 

The advantage of this pill over those depending entirely 
npon opium or morphine for their anodvne Droperties, is, 
that they may be taken without fear ot consiipacion. 

CROUP — Simple, but Effectual Remedy. — This dis- 
ease is attended with inflammation of the windpipe, spasms 
of the muscles of the throat, occasioning a peculiar sound, 
bard to be describsd, but when once heard by a mother, 



150 DR. chask's rectpes 

never to be forgotten ; cough, diflBicult respiration, and tevtit. 
The phlegm or mucous often filling, or very much obstruct- 
ing the throat, and finally forming a false membrane which 
cuts off all possibility of breathing. 

The first thing to be done is to get hot water ready as soon at 
possible, having always on hand a bottle of emetic tincture, c/>m 

Eosed of equal parts of the tinctures of lobelia and blood-mot. 
I08E — According to the a§e of the child ; if 2 years old, about 1 
tea-spoon every 10 to 15 mmutes until fre« vomiting takes place ', 
if 5 years old 3 tea-spoons, and increasing in proportion to age 
to 1 table-spoon for a child of 10 years, decreasing for very young 
children, say of 4 to 8 months, only 8 to 12 drops. Place tha 
feet as soon as possible into hot water, and keep them there un- 
til vomiting takes place, laying cloths wrun^ out of hot water 
upon the breast and throat, changing sufficiently often to keep 
them hot. The next morning give sufficient of the " Vegetable 
Physic " to move the bowels rather freely, "the emetic tincture 
should be given in some warm tea. 

Repeat the emetic as often as the returning svmptoms de- 
mand it, which usually occur the following nighi, reoeating 
the cathartic every second or third day, and I will guarantee 
Buccess if commenced in any kind of reasonable time ; but 
usually no repetition will be needed if parents keep the pre- 
paration in the house so as to begin with the beginning of 
the disease. 

2. Dutch Remedy.— Gtoose oil, and urine, equal quantities. 
Dose — From a tea to a table-spoon of the mixture, according to 
the a»e of the child. Repeat the dose every 15 minutes, if the 
first does not vomit in that time. 

This remedy will be found valuable in mild cases, and 
where the first w not at hand ; and I know it to have saved 
a child when one of their best Doctors said it must die ; but 
bear in mind he had not used our first prescription j yet an 
old Dutch woman came in at the eleventh hour, from the 
next door neighbors' wash-tub, and raised the child with 
what she called " p — s and gooee grease." I have used it 
with success. ; 

3. CnotJP OiNTMKNT.— Take mutton suet and nice lard, of 
each i lb. ; spermaceti tallow i oz. ; melt them together and add 
i pt. of the best vinegar, and simmer until the vinegar is nearly 
evaporated, skimming well, and constantly stirring, until it be- 
gins to granulate ; then add oils of amber and spruce, and pul 
verized sugar of lead, of each i oz. ; now remove from the fire 
and stir it tmtil cool. Dose— For a child of 3 jcars old, irit 



MEDICAL DEPABTMEMT. 161 

from i to 1 tea-spoon every i hour, until relief i8 obtained, or 
until vomiting takes place ; at the same time rubbing it upon 
the chest, and over the throat and lungs, freely. 

Dr. , of Finley, 0., says, from his experience, he 

knows it will cure as often as quinine will break up tha 
ague. 

HYDKOPHOBIA AND SNAKE BITES— To Pre- 
VENT, AND Cure. — A. Hubbard, of Boone Co., 111., in a 
letter to the St. Louis Republican, says : " Eighteen yeara 
ago my brother and myself were bitten by a mad-dog. A 
sheep was also bitten at the same time. Among the many 
cuies oifered for the little boys, (we were then ten or twelve 
years/ old,) a friend suggested the following which he said 
would cure the bite of a rattlesnake : 

" Take the root of the common upland ash, commonly called 
black ash, peel oflf the bark, boil it to a strong decoction, and 
of this, drink freely. Whilst my father was preparing the above, 
the sheep spoken of began to be afflicted with hydrophobia. 
When it had become so fatigued from its distracted state as to 
be no longer able to stand, my father drenched it with a pint of 
the asJi root ooze, hoping to ascertain whether he could depend 
upon it as a cure for his sons. Four hours after the drench had 
been given, to the astonishment of all, the animal got up and 
went quietly with the flock to graze. My brother and myself 
continued to take the medicine for 8 or 10 days, 1 gill 3 times 
daily. No effects of the dread poison were ever discovered on 
either of us. It has been used very successfully in snake bitoe, 
to my knowledge." 

There is no doubt in the author's mind but wbat this gen- 
tieman has made a mistake in the kind of ash meant, as the 
upland ash is white-ash, from which flooring is made, having 
a thick, rough outside bark, whilst the black has a smooth 
bark, and grows in low, wet land, and is the same from which 
the flour barrel hoop is extensively manufactured. It is the 
upland white-ash that is to be used ; it is known, as he says, 
to cure rattlesnake bites, and a gentleman of this place has 
tried it with success in rheumatism, boiled very strong and 
taken in half gill doses. May vomit and purge if taken too 
freely. Yet a moderate action, either up or down, will not 
be amiss. I have cured a case of rheumatism, in a boy 
twelve or fourteen years of age, with the above, since it 
oame to my knowledge. 



i5Sr DR. chase's recipes. 

2. Saxon Remedy. — Gastell, a Saxon forester, now of 
the venerable age of eighty two, unwilling to take to the 
grave with him a secret of so much importance, has made 
public in the Leipsic Journal the means which he has used 
fifty ye^-'TS, and wherewith he affirms, he has rescued manj 
human jeings and cattle from the fearful death of Hydro- 
phob'n. 

'i'ake immediately atler the bite, warm vinegar or tepid water, 
"/ash the -wound clean therewith, and dry it ; then pour upon 
>he wound a few drops of hydrochloric acid, because mineral 
acids destroy the poison of the saliva. 

3. Grecian Remedy. — Eat the green shoots of asparagus raw : 
sleep and perspiration will be induced, and the disease can bt 
thus cured in any stage of canine madness. 

A writer in the Providence Journal, says a man in Ath- 
ens, Greece, was cured of Hydrophobia by this remedy, even 
after the paroxysms had commenced. 

4. Quaker Remedy — Fifty Years Successful. — 
Jacob Ely, a good old honest Quaker merchant, of Lloydsh 
ville, 0., gave me the following plan which his father had 
used since 1806 with success, to his knowledge, both on per- 
sons and domestic animals; and the New York Tribune ha« 
recently published something of the same character. 

The dried root of elecampane, pulverize it and measure out 9 
heaping table-spoons, and mix it with 2 or 3 tea-spoons of pul- 
verized gum arable ; then divide into 9 equal portions. When 
a person is bitten by a rabid animal, take one of these portions 
and steep it in 1 pt. of new milk^ until nearly half the quantity 
of milk is evaporated ; then stram, and drink it in the morning, 
fasting for 4 or 5 hours after. The same dose is to be repeated 
3 moniiuge in succession, then skip 3, and so on until the 9 
doses are taken. 

The patient must avoid getting wet, or the heat of the 
Bun, and abstain from high seasoned diet, or hard exercise, 
*nd, if costive, take a dose of salts. The above quantity it 
for an adult — children will take less according to age. Th« 
Tribune's publication is as follows : 

5. Tribune's Cure for Hydrophobia. — The following 
was sent to the N. Y. Tribune, by J. W. Woolston, of 
Philadelphia : 

" Recipf.. — First dose, 1 oz. of elecampane root, boiled in 1 
pt. of milk until reduced to i pt. Second dose, (to be taken two 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 10* 

AsLy9 after the first,) H ozs. of elecampane root, boiled in 1 pt 

m milk, same as the first. Third dose, same as the second, (to 
be taken two days after,)— in all, three doses." 

If there is any virtue in the elecampane, at all, the pref- 
erence, of course, is to be given to the Quaker's plan, which 
gives nine instead of three doses. But it bubscanciates Mr 
Ely's plan, as it comes from the place of his facher's former 
residence. Consequently it would seem to atreagthen coai 
dence in the first. 

6. Snake Bites. — In case of being bitten by any of the po' 
Bonous snakes, tlie best plan is to wash oflF the place immediatdy 
then if the position of the wound is such th.at you can get th» 
mouth to the spot, suck out all the poison iu that way, or if anj 
other person is present, whose mouth is not sore, no dangeJ 
need be apprehended. 

For all the poison may be upon the outside, and washed 
off, yet most likely penetrates more or lass into the wound, 
if a snake bite, as the arrangement of their teeth is aach 
that the poison comes out near the point and when in the 
wound, thus you see the propriety of aucking it out. Or : 

7. Spirits of ammonia, a small vial of it, can be carried in the 
pocket, and if bitten, sharpen a little piece of wood to a small 
point, dipping this stick into the ammonia, and then penetrating 
the wound wath it. A piece of lunar caustic can be carried ii 
the pocket, and sharpened, if needed, and used the same as the 
stick and ammonia — and one of the celebrated English fanners 
has reported that this caustic, used freely on the bite of the mad 
dog, destroys the poison ; but to insure even a reasonable hope 
of success, it must be used immediaUly. This holds good in any 
of the sucking or caustic applications. 

All persons working on or near marshes, or wherever the 
massasauger is known to inhabit, should always have one of 
these causucs with them. 

8. But when a person is bitten in the absence of all these 
caustics, and not being able to reach the spot to suck out 
the poison, he must drink whisky enough to get as drunk 
as a fool, or his whole dependence must be upon the ash, 
asparagus, or elecampane. 

The National Intelliffencer, a year or two since, published 
a recipe for th« cure of the rattlesnake bite, which it 
claimed was infaixlble, it having been tried in a number of 
eases, and always with success. It was nothing more nor 
!«ss than the use of whisky as above recommended, and it 



164 DB. chase's bioipss . 

is but jnstice to say that a daughter of Wm. Reed, of the 
town of Pittsfield, in this county, who was bitten on the arm 
Bome three years ago, was cured by drinking whiaky until 
drunkenness and stupor were produced, and she has nevei 
felt any inconvenience from the bite since, which goes to 
show that the bite of the DeviTs tea is worse than the bit* 
of a rattlesnake. 

9. I know an old physician who was called to a boy bitten 
by a rattlesnake, and in the absence of all other remedies, 
he cured him upon the principle that, " The hair of the 
iog will cure his bite," taking a piece of the snake about 
two inches long, splitting it on the back, and binding it 
upon the bite. It cleansed the wound very white, and no 
bad effecta were seen from it. 

10. Saleratus, moistened and bound upon the bite ; then 
dissolve more, and keep the parts wet with it for a few hours 
has cured many massasauger-bites, as also bee-stings. 

11. Snake Bitten Cattle. — Remedy. — Cattle or hot 
Bes zre usually bitten in the feet. When this is the case, ah 
that is necessary to do is to drive them into a mud-hole and 
keep them there for a few hours ; if upon the nose, bind the 
mud upon the place in such a manner as not to interfere 
with their breathing. And I am perfectly satisfied that 
Boft clay mud would be an excellent application to snakti 
bites on persons, for I know it to draw out the poisoning 
from ivy, and have been assured that it has done the same 
for snake bites, of persons as well as for cattle. 

EYE preparations-Eye water.— Table salt and white 
vitriol, of each, 1 table-spoon ; heat them upon copper or earth 
en until dry ; the heating drives off the acrid or biting water- 
called the water of crystalization, making them much milder in, 
their action ; now add them to soft water ^ pt. ; putting in white 
sugar 1 table-spoon ; blue vitriol a piece the size of a commen 
pea. If it should prove too strong in any case, add a little more 
Boft water to a vial of it. Apply it to the eyes 3 or 4 times daily 

If the eyes are veri/ sore, or if the soreness has been of 
long standing, take the " Alterative Syrup," or the " Ci- 
thartic Alterative," continuing them for several weeks accord 
ing to the necessities of the case. I find it an excellent 
plan, in using any preparation for sore or weak eyes, to 
apply it again about twenty uiinutea from the first applkn- 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT 166 

tioi.. More than double speed is made by this repetition. 
For inflammation of any part of the body, apply this bj 
wetting cloths. Even for sores about the ears and groins of 
babes, reduce it, and three or four applications will cure 
tuem. I have also found it valuable for horses, as a wash, 
wncn they get the eye injured by straws, or otherwise, which 
twases the eye to water, or matierate, using it freely. 

The use of this eye water enabled me to lay by the spec- 
tacles after four years' wearing, and I have since studied 
luedicine and graduated as a physician, without resorting 
a^ain to their use, by the occasional application of the ey« 
wator. But I need not have resorted to the use of the eye 
water again, had I not done ia study, as I do in all things 
«ise, that is, when I have anything to do, I do it with all 
my might. I read steadily, day by day, sixteen hours — 
a)ore than five other students, read altogether, who roomed 
tit the same house. Yet this counted in the end ; for when 
fhe class began to inquire and look around, near the end of 
the term, for one to deliver the Valedictory^ on their behalf, 
which is the custom in the Eclectic Medical Institute, I re- 
oivftd that, the first honor of the class. I do not mention 
this to boast, by no means, but to show the necessity, as weli 
as the advantages, of hard study, especially to those who 
begin their studies late in life, and are obliged to pay their 
way with their own hands, and support a family also. This 
was my case exactly. In the commencement of my medi- 
cal studies, I worked all day, reading half of the night, 
copying ofi" the latin terms, with their significations, on a slif 
of paper, which I carried in my pocket during the next day^ 
looking at two or three of the terms at a time, through the 
day, until all were committed. And thus I accomplished, • 
no more than what any other man may do, if he goes at it 
with a will, and does as I did ; and that some one may be 
•timulated to this course is the only object of this recitaL 
See " Advice to Young Men." 

2. D . Raymond, of Grass Lake, Mich., who obtained 
the abo\ i prescription of me, adds to each ounce of water 
Qsed, out grain of morphine, and he tells me he has great 
auccesa with it; the addition of the morphine making it 
nearly resemble the celebrated prescription used by the Eng- 
lish Bxirgeons in India, which is as follows : 



M* DB. CHASE S RECIPES. 

3. India Prescription for Sore Eyes. — Sulphate of zinc 
2 grs.; tincture of opium, (laudanum) 1 dr.; rose water 2 ozs.; 
mix. Put a drop or two in the eye 2 or 3 times daily. 

4. An Eye Doctor, of Xenia, O., makes a great use of the 
ollowing : 

Sulohate of zinc, acetate of lead, and rock salt, of each "% 
oz., lua^" sugar 1 oz.; soft water 12 ozs.; miz without heat, and 
use as other eye waters. 

5. Dr. Cook, of Ashtabula, Ohio, makes and sells large 
quantities, under the head of " Cook's Eye Water." It is as. 
loUows : 

Sulphate of zinc 1 oz.; sugar of lead J^ oz.; precipitated 
carbonate of iron y^ oz.; salt, and sugar, of each 1 table spoon ;■ 
the whites of 2 eggs; solt water 33 ozs.; mix the whites of 
the eggs, zinc, salt, lead, sugar, and iron well together, then 
add the water. 

6. For Excessive Inflammation of the Eyes. — Pov'tice 
by boiling a handful of hops in water, putting in from J^ to 1 
dr. of opium, Avhile boiling ; when still warm, lay the hops 
over the eyes and keep them wet with the water 'n which 
they were boiled. 

A lady who had been blistered and starved, / cording to 
the old plan, in this disease, was soon cured by Itiis poultic 
. ng and washing the eyes often with the hop-water contain 
ing the opium, with generous diet, &c., contrary to the ex- 
pectations of friends, and the predictions of enemies, to the 
plan. 

^ 7. If sore eyes shed much water, put a little c f the oxide of 
zinc into a vial of water, and use it rather freely — ii will soon 
cure that difficulty. 

8. Copperas afid water has cured sore eyes of Jong stand 
ing and used quite strong, it makes an excellent application 
in erysipelas. 

9. Garden Rhubarb. — The juice of the root applied to 
the eye, has cured bad cases. 

10. Bon, an cg%^ remove the yolk, and hav-e ready equal 
yarts of sulphate of zinc and loaf sugar, pul rerized ; fill the 
place occupied by the yolk, and squeeze out the oil through 
e Rnen cloth, while hot, and apply as needed. If too strong, 
add a little rain water. 

I sold a book to a Mrs. Johnson, in Wayrie county, Mich 
who had used this preparation very succe^jsiully for several 
years, and had I not have aljiidy had ;c in my book, I 



MEDICAL DEPA»linl!i^T. 157 

(jould not have purchased it of her for less than five dollars 
and she regretted very much that I was taking from her a 
source of profit by selling the books in her neighborhood 
containing the recipe. 

11, Sailok's Eye Preparation. — Bum alum, and mix it 
with the while of eggs and put between two cloths and lay it 
apon the eyes ; taking salts and cream of tartar, equal parts, to 
cleanse the blood. 

This was given to me, and very highly recommended, hy 
an old Scotch sailor, with whom I have had much enjoy 
ment, talking over the sufiforings of the sea, he having used 
it many times in places where nothing else could be ob- 
tained. 

13. Father Pinkney's Preparation for Very Bad Sorb 
Eyes — Castile soap, scraped fine, and half the quantity of very 
finely pulverized chalk ; wet them up to a paste with strong 
juice of tobacco ; when desbed to apply to the eye, drop two 
or three drops of brandy into the box of paste ; then take ou* 
a bit of it where the brandy was dropped, equal in size to tl^ 
fourth of a grain of wheat, to the diseased eye ; wet it on a bit 
of glass, and put it into the eye with a camel's hair pencil. 

Apply it twice daily at first, and from that to only once 
in two days, for from one to two weeks, will, and has cured 
wretched bad cases, so saj's old Father Pinkney, of Wayne 
Co.. Mich., who has used it over fifty years, he being over 
ninety years of age. Uis only object in giving it an inser- 
tion here is to do good to his fellow creatures ; and also for 
animals, it being equally applicable to horses or cattle. 

13. Indian Eye Water.— Soft w^ater 1 pt. ; gum arable 1 oz ; 
white vitriol 1 oz. ; fine salt i tea-spoon; put all into a bottle 
and shake until dissolved. Put ipio the eye just as you retire to 
btjd. 

I paid Mrs. Pinny, south of Ypsilanti, Mich., fifty cent* 
for this prescription. She would not, however, let her own 
family know its composition. Her husband had removed 
films from horses' eyes with it, and cured Mr. Chidister, a 
merchant of Ypsilanti, by only two applications, as the say- 
ing is, after he had " Tried everything else." It came from 
an old Indian, but my knowledge of the articles would lead 
me to say for common, at least, it would require to be re- 
duced one-half. 

14. T0B4.000 Eyb Water.— Fine cut tobacco the size of a 



158 »K. chase's recipes 

common hickory nut; sugar ot lead equal in bulk ; rain water 
2 ozs. ; opium the size of a pea. Reduce it with more water if 
necessary. 

15. Verdigris and Honey, have cured inflamed eyes, by 
using just e-afflcient verdigris to color the water a grass color, 
then making it one-third honey. It is also said to prevent scara 
by using upon burns. 

16. Raw Potato Poultice, for inflamed eyes, is one cf th« 
Tery best applications in recent cases, scraping fine and apply- 
ing frequently. 

17. Slippery-Elm Poultices, are also an excellent applica 
tion, used as above. 

18. Films — To Remove from the Eye. — Wintergreen leaf, 
bruised, and stewed in a suitable quantity of hens' oil to make 
the oil strong of the wintergreen — strain and apply twice daily. 

The above cured a boy of this city, and T am satisfied thai 
the hens' oil has cured recent cases, without the winter- 
green, but with it, it has cured beasts also. For cases of a 
year or two's standing, however, it is best to use the follow- 
ing : 

19. Lime water 1 pt. ; finely pulverized verdigris j oz. ; set on 
smbers for 1 hour; then strain and bottle tight. Touch the 
ilni over the pupil, or on the speck, 2 or 3 times daily, by 
putting the point of a small camel's hair pencil into the prepa- 
ration, then to the eye, holding away the lids for a short time by 
placing the thumb and finger upon them for that purpose. 

It will be found necessary to persevere for two or three 
months with this application, and also to use one of the " Al- 
teratives," to cleanse the blood. This course, pursued for 
three months, gave sight to a young lady who had not seen 
light for two years, which Doctors could not do, nor were 
willing for others to do. 

20. Eye Salve.— Take white precipitate 1 tea-spoon and rub it 
into a salve with 3 tea-spoons of fresh lard, and applied upon the 
outside of the lid of the worst chronic, (long continued), sore 
eyes, has cured them when they were so bad that even the eye- 
lashes, (cilia), had fallen out, Irbm the disease. 

A Physician was cured with this eye salve when he could 
not cure himself. If red precipitate will cure the itch, why 
should not the white cure disease of the eye. 

21. Sore Eyes— To Remo\'e the Granulations.— Crystal 
ized nitrate of silver 2 grs. ; morphia 1 gr. ; blue vitriol 1 gr. ; 
galammeniac 1 gr. ; pulverize each one separately, and mix. Ap- 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 159 

ply "Mice daily, by putting a small bit of the mixture upon a piece 
of yl&sa, moistening it with a little water, and putting into the 
eye by means of a small camel's hair pencil. 

22. Another Method — Is to take a stick of tag-alder about 2 
feet long, boring a hole nearly through the middle of the stick, 
crosswise, filling it with salt, and plugging it up ; then put one 
end into the fii'e and char it nearly to the salt, then the other 
end the same way; and finally pulverizing and applying the 
gait, the same as the above, once daily only. 

In either case after the granulations (little lumps) are re- 
moved from the eye, or eyes, finish the cure by using any of 
the foregoing eye waters which you may choose ; all the 
time using some of the alteratives for cleansing the blood. 

FEVER SORES— PLASTER, SALVES, &c.— Black Salve. 
— Sweet oil, linseed oil, and red lead pulverized, of each 
1 oz. (or in these proportions). Put all into an iron dish over a 
moderate fire, stirring constantly, until you can draw your fingei 
over a drop of it on a board when a little cool, without sticking. 
Spread on cloth and apply as other salvea 

My brother, J. M. Chase, of Caneadea, N. Y. says he has 
used this salve about fifteen years, and knows it to be one of 
the best in the world for all kinds of old sores, as ulcers, 
fever sores, and all inflamed parts, cleaning and taking out 
redness or inflammation, causing a white healthy appearance 
in a short time, and a certain preventive of mortiflcation &c., 
&c., as well as to prevent soreness in more recent cuts and 
bruises, also ; and from my own knowledge of a salve which 
is very similar, I have introduced it into this work, feeling 
assured that whoever may have occasion to try it, will not 
regret the space it occupies, especially after reading the fol- 
lowing : A gentleman said to me during the past summer, 
" I will give you one of the most valuable salves in the world, 
for I cured a man's hand, with it, which was so swollen tliat 
it looked more like a ham than a hand j and two Doctors 
aaid it must be cut off, also ulcerated." When he told me 
how it was made, I opened my book to the above salve, 
which was precisely the same as the one he used. 

2. Red Salve. — Some prefer to prepare the salve as fol- 
lows: 

R»d lead 1 lb. ; bees- wax and rosin, or eacn 3 ozs. ; linseed 
and sweet oils, of each 3 table-spoons ; spirits of turpentir ; 1 
tca-^poon; melt all, except the first and last, together, thenstiii 
\n the lead and stir until cool, adding the turpentine. 



IbO DR. chase's RECTPKtI. 

Used upon fever, and all othur sores of an inflammatory 
character ; at the same time taking the following pill to 
purify the blood : 

3. Ma^tdiiake root, dried and pulverized, i oz. ; blood root, ip 
the same way, i oz. ; form into pills with extract of dandelion. 
Dose — Three pills may be taken at bed time, for 2 or 3 daya, 
then add another pill, and at the end of a week take any cathar 
tic you choose; then take iodide of potash 10 grs., and put jt 
into a vial with 1 oz. of water, and take 20 to 30 drops of it in a 
liule more water, instead of the mandrake pill, for 3 or 4 days; 
then that pill again, as at first. 

By the time you have gone around three or four timet*, 
the blood will be pretty thoroughly cleansed — do not be 
afraid of the mandrake pill, as it will not act as a cathartic, 
but simply work upon the blood — if it does, reduce the 
number. You will be pleased with this method of purifi 
cation 

4. Indian Curk. — G. A. Patterson, of AshtwhuU, 0., 
Wiis cured by an Indian physician, in Cleveland, of ou© of 
the worst fever sores almost ever known. The muscles of 
his leg were so contracted that no vje could be made of his 
leg in getting about. Four mouths, and the following treat 
ment, did the work : 

A syrup of Wahoo (Euonymus Atropurpureus) — and here let 
me say that the Wahoo is the great Indian remedy for purifying 
the blood — was made by boiling very strong, then molasses ana 
rum added to make it palatable and keep it from souring ; this 
was used sufficient to keep the bowels solvent, sometimes chew- 
ing the bark of the root from which the syrup is made, prefer- 
ring it a part of the time to the syrup. The sore was dressed 
with the following salve : Rosin 1 lb. ; mutton tallow 1 lb. ; bees- 
wax 1 lb. ; linseed oil 1 pt. ; ambrosial (highly flavored) soap 1| 
ozs. ; to make it, mix in an iron kettle and simmer 2 hours, stu'- 
ring all the time. Spread on cloth, and apply as needed. Tho 
contracted muscles were anointed with skunk's oil only. 

Mr. Patterson also extols it very highly for all common 
purposes. And as I have a few other recipes for fever eorea 
which have been so highly recommended by those who have 
used them, I cannot omit their insertion, and I would espe- 
cially recommend the next one following, called : 

5. Kitbidok's Salve. — Bitter-sweet and sweet elder roots, of 
each 1^ lbs. ; hop vines and leaves, and garden plantain, top and 
root, of each i lb. ; tobacco 1 three-cent plug. Boil all in rain 
water to get out the strength ; then put the herbs in a thick cl/Ab 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 161 

And press out tht juice, and boil down carefully to J pt. ; then 
add unsalted butter 1 lb. ; bees-wax and rosin, of each 1 oz., and 
simmer over a slow fire until the water is all out. 

I obtained the above from S. B. Newton, a farmer Doctor 
near Mooreville, Mich., who had cured fever sores, with it, 
of thirty-five years' standing ; used it also on swellings iu 
every case, once upon a boy who had an eye kicked out and 
Bwelled very bad j he keeps it in his stable all the time foi 
wounds of horses and cattle, in castration, &c.,&c. Iknow 
it must be a very valuable salve. 

6. Fevkk Sore Poultice. — Sassafras, bark of the root, drie t 
and pulverized very fine ; make a bread and milk poultice quitd 
thin, and stir in of the above powder to make it of proper con 
sistence, applying 8 times in the 24 hours for 3 weeks ; then heal 
with a salve made by thickening honey to a salve with whea« 
Hour. 

If there are loose bones it will be quite sore wh. !e they 
are working out, but persevere. A case was cured by it of 
twelve years' standing ; the same man cured eight other 
cases, never having a failure, and it has proved successful 
on an abscess of the loins also. 

7. Yeast Poultice. — Fresh yeast, the thick part, thickened 
with flour and applied to fever sores has proved very valuable, 
contmumg it for several weeks, touching any points, which does 
not heal readily, with finely pulverized verdigris rubbed up with 
a littlb lard ; then putting the poultice directly over the whole 
again. 

This heals, leaving the parts white and natural, instead of 
dark, as I have seen many cases which had been cured. 

8. Salve for Fevhr Sores, Abscesses, Broken Breasts, 
&c. — Thoroughly steep tobacco i oz., in soft water 1 pt., strain- 
ing out from the tobacco and boUing down to 1 gill ; then have 
melted, lard, rosin, and bees-wax, of each i oz. simmering to a 
thick salve, then stirring in 1 gill of old rum, and, if necessary, 
continuing the simmering a little longer. To be used as other 
salves. 

9. Ointment. — Sweet clover (grown in gardens) stewed in 
ijurd ; then add bees-wax and white pine turpentine, equal parts, 
Jo form an ointment, is highly recommended. 

10. Salve for Fever Sores, Cuts, &c. — Spirits of turpentine 
and honey, of each ^ pt., simmered over a slow fire until they 
unite by stirring ; then set aside to cool until you cart put in the 
yolk ot an egg without its being cooked by the heat ; stir it in 
and return it to the fire, adding camphor gum i oz., simmer and 
etir until well mixed. 

6 — COPT BiaaT SECUBJED 



162 DR. CRA&L'si Ri^CIPES. 

By putting in the egg when cool, it combines with fha 
other, but if put in while the salve is hot it cooks, but doca 
not combine. This is vejy highly recommended, as abov« 
indicated. 

11. William Howell, a farmer living about six milet 
from Jackson, Mich.,^ays he had a fever sore on his shio 
for twenty years, sometimes laying him up for months, auf* 
at one time preparations were made to cut off the limb, bu 
an old man, in New Jersey, told him to : 

Scrape a fresh turnip and apply it every 4 houi-s, niglit an, 
day, until healed, which cured him. 

And he feels assured, from using it in other cases, that 
all will be pleased with it who have any occasion ibr its use 
Apply it oftener if it becomes too offensive. 

HALVES. — GuEEN MouNT.UN Salve. — Rosin 5 lbs.; Bur- 
gundy pilch, bees-wa."?, and mutton tallow, of each } lb. ; oil of 
hemlock, balsam of fir, oil of origanum, oil of red cedar, and 
Venice turpentine, of each 1 oz. ; oil of wormwood ^ oz. ; ver- 
digris, very finely pulverized, 1 oz. ; melt the first articles to- 
gether and add the oils, having rubbed the verdigris up with a 
little of tlie oils, and P^^^ ''- i" with the other articles, stirring 
well ; then pour into cold water and work as wax until cooj 
enough to roll. 

This salve has no equal for rheumatic pains, or weakness 
in the side, back, shoulders, or any place where pain ma.) lo- 
cate itself. ^V'hcre the skin is broken, as in ulcers, and bruises, 
I use it without the verdigris, making a white salve, even 
superior to "Pelcg White's old salve." Ic is valuable in 
Dyspepsia, to put a plaster of the green salve over the t.tom- 
ach, and wear it as long as it will stay on, upon the bacK 
also, or any place where pain or weakness rauy locate, lu 
cuts, bruises, abrasions, &c., spread the vriihe salve urun 
cloth and apply it as a sticking plaster until ^vell ; for rheu- 
matism or weakness, spread the green salve upon soft, leather 
and apply, letting it remain on as long as it will stay. For 
corns, spread the green salve upon cloth and put upon the 
corn, letting it remain until cured. It has cured them. 

A gentleman near Lancaster, 0., obtained one of my 
books having this recipe in it, and one year afterwards he 
told me he had sold over four-thousand rolls of the salve, 
curing an old lady of rheumatism in six weeks, who haii 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT 163 

been confined to her bed for seven weeks, covering all the 
the large joints with the salve, without other treatment. 
For roUiug oiit salves, see the cut below. 

2. CoxKijx's Celebrated Saia"e. — Rosin 4 lbs. ; bees-wax, 
burgundy pitch, white pine turpentine, and mutton tallow, each 
} lb. ; cataptior gum and balsam of tir, of each i oz. ; sweet oil 
I oz. ; iiud alcohol i pt. Melt, mix, roll out, and U8(. as other 
salves, ^\'oude^s have been done with it. 

3. B.VLM OF Gilead Salve. — Mutton tallow ^ lb. ; balm of 
gilead buds 3 ozs. ; white pme gum 1 oz. ; red precipitate i oz. ; 
Lard soap i oz. ; white sugar 1 table-spoon. Stew the buds in 
tlie tallow until the strength is obtained, and press out or strain, 
scrape the soap and add it with the other articles to the tallow, 
usiii^' siiflicient unsalted butter or sweet oil to bring it to a proper 
cou»irileuce to spread easily upon cloth. When nearly cool, stir 
01 the red precipitate, mixing thoroughly. 

Thi.s may be more appropriately called an ointment. It 
lo used ibr cuts, scalds, bruises, &c., and for burns by spread- 
ing very thin — if -sores get proud flesh in them, sprinkle a 
little burned alum on the salve before applying it. It has 
been in use in this county about forty years, with the great- 
est success. 

4. Adhesive Plastek, ou Salve, for Deep "Wounds, Cuts, 
&c., IN Place of Stitcues. — White rosin 7 ozs. ; bees-wax and 
mutton tjiUow, of each i oz. ; melt all together, then pour into 
cold water and work as wax until thoroughly mixed, then roll 
out mU) suitable sticks for use. 

It may be spread upon firm cloth and cut into narrow 
strips. In case of deep wounds, or cuts, it will be found to 
firwiy hold them togethei", by first pressing one end of a 
strip upon one side of the wound until it adheres, then draw 
the edges of the wound closely together, and press down 
the other end of the strip until it adheres also. The strips 
should reach three or four inches upon each side of the cut, 
lind run in diiierent directions across €ach other, to draw 
every part of the wound firmly in contact It will crack 
eusiiy after being spread until applied to the warm flesh, ye 
\f wade any softer it cannot be be depended upon lor an^ 
(cii^jrl) of time, but as it is, it has been worn as a strength- 
ening plaster, and remained on over a year. 

5. Pkleg White's Old Salve. — This, formerly cele- 
brated, salve was composed of only three very simple artialeu 



16- 



DR. 0HA8X S RECIP£8 



Our " Green Maun tain Salve" is far ahead of it, yet for thi 
satisfaction of its old friends I give you its composition : 

Rosin 3 lbs. ; mutton tallow ace. oceswax, ol each J lb. ; melt 
ed together and poured mto cold water, then pulled, and workec 
as ihoe-makers wax. 

it was recommended for old sores, cuts, bruises, vkeu 
r atie-plasters, &e., &c. 




APPARATUS FOR WAKING SALVES AND LOZENOEB 

The above cut represents a board prepared with atnpa 
apou it of the depired thickness for the diameter of the rolls 
of salve, also a piece of board with a handle, with which to 
roll tne salve when properly cooled for that purpose. *lhe 
salve is laid between the strips, which are generally one inch 
thick, then, with the handle piece, roll it until that board 
comes down upon the strips which makes the rolls all of one 
size, use a little tallow to prevent sticking to the boards or 
hands ; then cut off the desired length and put a label upon 
them, to prevent them sticking to each other. 

A roller, and tin-cutter, is also represented in the same 
cut, with which, and another board, ha^^ng thin strips upon 
it to correspond with the thickness of lozenges required, 
you can roll the mass down until the roller touches the 
strips ; and thus you can get them as well as the salve, of 
uniform thickness; then out out with the cutter, laying 
them upon paper until dry. 

VERMIFCGEa.— Sastoxin Lozenges.— Santonin 60 ^rs.; 
pulverized sugar 5 ozs. ; mucilage of gnni tragacanth suflicient 
to make into a thick paste, worked carefully together, that the 
sautouiu shall be evenly mixed throughout the whole maw 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 165 

then, if not in too great a hurry, cover up the mortar i^ which 
you have rubbed them, and let stand from 12 to 24 hours to tem- 
per; ac which time they will roll out better tlian if done unme- 
diately ; divide into 120 lozenges. See apparatus, above, for 
rolling, and cutting out. Dose — For a child 1 year old, 1 
lozenge, night and morning ; of 2 years, 2 lozenges ; of 4 years, 
8 ; of 8 years, 4 ; of 10 years or more 5 to 7 lozenges ; in aU 
cases, to be taken twice daily, and continuing until the worms 
Itart on a voyage of discovery. 

A gentleman came into the drug store one morning, with 
the remark, " Do you know what your lozenges have been 
doing ?" As though they had killed some one, the answer 
was, no, is there anything wrong ; he held up both handa 
together, scoop shovel style, saying, " They fetched away 
the worms by the double handful." It is needless to at- 
tempt to give the symptoms by which the presence of worms 
might be distinguished ; for the symptoms of nearly every 
other disease is, sometimes^ manifested by their presence. 
But if the belly be quite hard and unusually large, with a 
peculiar and disagreeable breath, in the morning, foul or 
furred tongue, upper lip swollen, itching of the nose and 
anus, milky white urine, bowels sometimes obstinately cos- 
tive, then as obstinately loose, with a craving appetite, then 
loathing food at times; rest assured that worm medicine 
will not be amiss, whether the person be child, or adult. It 
would be well to take a mild cathartic after four to six days 
use of the lozenges, unless the worms have passed off suffi- 
ciently free before that time, to show their general destruc- 
tion. Very high praise has also been given to the follow- 
ing : 

2. Vermifuge Oil — Prof. Freeman's. — In the May 
number of the Eclectic Medical Journal of Cincinnati, 0., 
I find so valuable a vermifuge from Prof. Z. Freeman, that 
I must be excused for its insertion, as the articles can always 
be obtained, whilst in some places you might not be able to 
£et tho santonin called for in the lozenges. His remarks 
following the recipe will make all needed explanations, and 
give confidence in the treatment. 

The explanations in brackets are my own, according to 
the custom through the whole work. 

" T'ike oil of chenopodii, \ oz. (oil of worm-seed,) ; oil of ter- 
•Unth, 2dr8. (oil of turpentine,); oil of ricini, li oas. (castor 



t66 DR. chase's RECn>£8. 

oil,/ ; fluid extract of spigelia, i oz. (pink) hydrastin 10 gw. ; 
eynip of menth. pip. J oz. (syrup of peppcrmiut.) Dose — To a 
cliild 10 years of age, a tea-spoon 3 times a day, 1 hour before 
each meal ; if it purges too freely, give it less often. 

" This is an excellent vermifuge, tonic, and cathartic, and 
has never failed (as well as I can judge,) to eradicate worms, 
if any were present, when administered for that purpose 
I have given no other vermifuge for the last five years, and 
often one tea-spoon has brought away from three to twenty 
of the lumbrica. Only a few days ago I prescribed one 
fluid drachm of it, (about one tea-spoon,) and caused the ex- 
pulsion of sixty lumbricoids, and one fluid drachm, taken a, 
few days afterwards, by the same child, brought away forty 
more, some of them six inches in length. Where no worms 
are present, it answers the purpose of a tonic, correcting the 
condition of the mucus membrane of the stomach and bow- 
els, improving the appetite and digestion, and operating as a 
mild cathartic." 

8. Worm Tea. — Carolina pink-root, senna leaf, manna, and 
American worm-seed, of Ciicli I oz. ; bruise and pour on boiling 
water 1 pt., and steep without boiling. Sweeten well, add half 
bs much milk. Dose — A child of five years, may take 1 gill 3 
times daily, before meals, or sufficient to move the bowels rather 
freel}'. 

If this does not carry ofl" any worms, wait one day and 
lepeat the operation ; but if the bowels do not move by the 
first day's work, increase the dose and continue to give it 
until that end is attained before stopping the medicine. 
This plan will be found an improvement upon the old where 
the lozenges or oil cannot be obtained, as above. 

4. Worm Cake— English RE>rEDV. — Wheat flour and jalap, 
of each i lb. ; calomel, grain-tin, and ginger, of each 1 oz. Alix 
tlioroughly and wet up as dougli, to a proper consistence to roll 
out ; then roll out as lozenge cakes, to three-sixteenths of an 
inch in thickness ; then cut out f inch square and dry them. 
Dose — For a child from 1 to 2 years, f of a cake ; 4 to 5 years, 1 
Ortke ; from 5 to 7 years, 1} cakes ; from 7 to 10, H ; from 10 to 
13, If; from 1'2 to 14, 2; from 14 to 17, 2^; from 17 to 10 years, 
and all above that age, 2^ cakes, but all men above tliat age 3 
cakes. 

'•Children may eat them, or they can be shaved o? very 
fine and mixed in a little treacle, honey, or preserv^es. If 
after taking the first dose, they do not work a* you dewxfl, 



MEDICAL DiiPA-feTMENT. 167 

increase the dose a little. The patient to take the medicine 
tw'ce a week — Sundays and Wednesdays. To be taken Id 
the morning, fasting, and to be worked off with a little warns 
tea, water gruel, or warm broth. N. B. — Milk must not be 
used in working them off, and be careful of catching cold.— 
Snodin, Printer, Oakham, Eng." 

I obtained the above of an English family who praised it 
very highly as a cathartic for common purposes, as well an 
for worms. And all who are willing to take calomel, I have 
no doubt will be pleased with its operations. 

TAPE-WORM. — Simple, but Effectual Remedy. 
— This, very annoying and distressing, worm has been re- 
moved by taking two ounce doses of common pumpkin-seeds, 
pulverized, and repeated every four or five hours, for four or 
five days; spirits of turpentine, also in doses of one-half 
to two ounces, with castor oil, have proved very effectual ; 
the root of the male fern, valerian, bark of the pomegranate 
root, &c., have been used with success. But my chief 
object in speaking upon this subject, is to give the successes 
of Drs. Beach, of New York, and Dowlcr, of Beardstown, 
HI., from their singularity and perfect eradication of the 
worm, in both cases : The first is from " Beach's American 
Practice, and Family Physician," a large work, of three 
t^olumes, costing Twenty Dollars, consequently not generally 
circulated ; whilst the latter is taken from the " Eclectic 
Medical and College Journal," of Cincinnati, and therefore 
only taken by physicians of that school. The last was first 
published by the " New Orleans Medical and Surgical Jour- 
nal." First then. Dr. Beach says : 

" The symptoms of a tape-worm, as related to me by 
Miss Dumouline, who had suffered with it for twenty-five 
years, are in substance as follows : It commenced at the age 
of ten, and afilicted her to the age of thirty-five. The 
worm often made her distressingly sick at the stomach ; she 
would sometimes vomit blood and be taken suddenly ill, ani 
occasionally while \*^alking. It caused symptoms of many 
other diseases, great wasting of the flesh, &c. Her appetite 
was very capricious, being at times good, and then poor for 
months, during which time her symptoms were much aggra- 
vated ; sickness, vomiting, great pain in the chest, stomach 



Its DR- coase's recipes. 

and fiide, motion in the stomach, and also in the bowels, Tfitfc 
pain, a sense of fullness or swelling, and beating or throb- 
bing in the same, dizziness, heaviness of the eyes : — and 
ehe was altogether so miserable that she feared it would des- 
troy her. When she laced or wore anything tight, it pro- 
duced great distress. The worm appeared to rise up in h«r 
throat and sicken her. Her general health was very bad. 
At intervals, generally some time after taking medicine 
pieces of the worm would pass from the bowels, — often as 
many as forty during the day, all alive, and would swim in 
water. 

" Tkeatment. — ]VIl83 Dumo'iiine stated tliat she bad employed 
twenty physicians, at different periods, and taken a hundred dif- 
ferent kinds of medicine without expelling the worm. She had 
taken spirits of turpentine, but could not retain it upon the 
stomach. Under these circumstances I commenced my treat- 
ment. Cowage shipped from the i)od, a small tea-spoon three 
times a day, to be taken, fasting, In a little arrow-root jelly ; 
then occasionally a purgative of mandrake. In connection with 
this, I directed her to eat freely of garlic, and common fine salt. 
I gave these under the belief that each article possessed vermi- 
fuge properties, without ever having administered them for the 
Uipe-worm. After having taken them for some time, all her 
unfavorable symptoms ceased, and subsequently the remaining 
portion of the worm passed lifeless from her — an unprecedented 
circumstance. 

" She immediately recovered, and has since retained lier 
health, and there is no evidence that there is any remaining 
The patient stated that the worm which passed from her du- 
ring the time she was afflicted with it, would fill a peck 
measure, and reach one mile in length. Her relief and grati- 
tude may be better imagined than described. I have a por- 
tion of this worm in my possession. When once the tape- 
worm begins to pass the bowels, care must be taken not U» 
break it off, for it will then grow again — it has this pceuliai 
property." 

2. Secondly, Dr. Dowler says : " The subject of this 
notice is a daughter of Mr. E. Fish, of Beardstown, 111., 
about six years old. The only point of special interest in 
the case consists in the efficiency of the remedy — to me 
wholly new, and accidentally brought to my notice — which 
was used in its treatment. 

" I was treating a brother of this patient ; a part of 1117 



ItBDICAL DEPARTMENT. 169 

prescription for wliom was, as a drink, the mucilage of elm 
bark, made by putting pieces of the solid bark into water. 
The girl was seen to be frequently eating portions of the 
bark during the day ; the next morning after which, upon 
my visiting the boy, the mother, with much anxiety, showed 
me a vessel containing something that had that morning 
passed the girl's bowels, \^ith bits of the elm bark, enveloped 
in mucilage, which, upon examination, proved to be about 
three feet of tape-worm. As I supposed the passage of the 
worm was accidental, and had occurred from the looseness 
caused by the bark, I proceeded to prescribe what I sup- 
posed a much more potent anthelmintic, a large dose of tur- 
pentine and castor oil. The turpentine and oil were given 
Bevo.ral times during the three consecutive days, causing 
pretty active purging, but with no appearance of any por- 
tions of the worm. The girl being slender, and of irritable 
temperment, I was forced to desist from fuither active med- 
ications ; and partly to allay irritation oi the bowels, and 
partly to test the influence of the bark on the worm, I di- 
re<?ted that she should resume the use of the bark as before, 
bv chewing and swallowing in moderate quantities. 

" On visiting her the succeeding morning, I was shown 
portions of the worm, mostly in separate joints, that had 
beeu passed over night. Feeling now some contidence in 
the anthelmintic powers of the elm bark, I directed the con- 
tinned use of it, in "the solid form, as before, while there 
ehould be any portions of worm passing. In my daily calls 
for nome days, I had the satisfaction to learn that portions 
of t he worm continued to pass, from day to day, and some- 
timf-8 several times a day. 

" f now ceased to vist my little patient, intending only an 
occasional visit; but my confidence in the efficacy of the 
dm hark being so well established, I advised its use to be 
contiuued for even two or three days after any portions 
of the worm should be seen in the evacuations. The por- 
tions of the worm expelled — even the separate joints — were 
alive showing more or less motion ; a sense of their pres- 
ence in the rectum, from their action, seemed to urge the 
patient to go to stool for their removal. 

•' Having given direction for the links or joints to b« 
counted, care was taken to do so, by the mother ; and from 



170 DH. chase's recipes 

my notes of the case, I find that during about seven \Teefai 
of the intervening time, there had been expelled, by esti- 
mate, (taking the average lengths of the joints,) about forty' 
fioe, feet of worm. At this time there had been no portions 
of the worm pa.ssed for two weeks, during which time the 
use of the bark had been omitted. The head of the 
worm, with about fifteen inches of the body attached, tiad 
been expelled ! But thinking that all portions of the worm 
or worms might not have been removed, I advised that the 
patient should resume the use of the bark. Very soon the 
next day, after doing so, further portions commenced com 
mg away, among them one about iix, feet long, tapering to 
a thread-like termination. 

" The next time I took notes of the case, my estimate of 
the entire length of the worm that had been expelled, foot- 
ed up one hundred and thirti/-fve feet^ whether one or 
more worms, 1 am unable to say, as in the portions I saw., 
there- were a head and tail, of what I supposed one worm. 
Since the last estimate, there have b<jen joints occasionally 
evacuated 

'' This patient, when first treated, was thin in flesh — had 
been growing so for some two years — attended with the 
usual nervous symptoms, starting out of sleep, variable ap- 
petite, ctv,., but with no great departure from good health. 

" As to the influence of this very bland agent in the dia- 
lodgment of the tape-worm, in this case, I think there can 
be no doubt, whathever may be the theory of its action. * 

" The pas.sage of portions of the worm, so promptly, od 
the use of the bark, and the ceasing to do so on the discon 
tiiiuauce of its use — even while active purgative anthelmin- 
tics were used — leave no room to doubt its effectiveness ij» 
at least this case, as a worm-expelling agent. 

" It seems probable that the bark, with its thick mucil^ 
age so interposes between the animal and the inner surface 
of the bowels, as to prevent its lateral grasp on their surface 
in consequence of which it is compelled to yield to the force* 
naturally operating, and is carried out with the discharges. 
But as my object was simply to state the practical fact* iu 
this c-ase, I will ofier no further reflections. 

COUGHS.— Cough Lozekgks.— Powdered epecacuanha 24 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 171 

grs. ; kennes mineral 50 grs. ; sulphate of morphia 8 grs. ; powder- 
ed white sugar, gum arable, aud extract of licorice, of each 1^^ 
ozs. ; oil of anise 20 drops ; syrup of tolu sufficient to work into 
mass form ; loil out and cut into 160 lozenges. Dose — One loz- 
enge 3 times daily. — ParinlCa Pharmacy. 

The above is tho prescription of the " regulars/' but there 
are those, perhaps who would prefer the more rational pro- 
■ Bcriptioa of the " irregulars," next following ; and there are 
those who would prefer the " Cough Candy" in place of 
either of the lozenges. By the insertion of the variety, all 
can please themselves. 

2. Cough Lozenges. — Another valuable lozenge is made as fol- 
lows : Extract of blood-root, licorice, and black cohosh, of eaijU 
i oz.; tinctures of ipecac and lobelia, with laudanum, of each J 
oz. ; cayenne, powdereu, 10 grs. ; pulverized gum arable and 
starch, of each f oz. ; mix all together, and add pulverized sugar 
3 ozs. K this should be too dry to roll into lozenges, add a thick 
solution of gum arable to give it that consistence ; and if it 
should be yet too moist, at any time, add more sugar. Divide 
into 320 lozenges. Dose — One, 3 to 6 times daily, as needed. 

8. PcTLMONic Wafers. — Pulverized sugar 7 ozs. ; tinctm-e of 
ipecac 3 drs. ; tincture of blood-root and syrup of tolu, of each 
Z drs. ; tincture of thoroughwort | oz. ; iiiorphine 1^ grs. Dis- 
solve ike morphine in water ^ tea-spoon, having put in sul- 
phariE ivld 2 drops ; now mix all, and add mucilage of com- 
frty rcvi on gum arabic, to form a suitable paste to roll and cut 
into ooiVLi'Uiijized wafers or lozenges. Diuections. — Allow 1 
to djj.\>.\ve ia the mouth for a dose, or dissolve 6 in 3 table- 
Bpooaij i>i warm water, and take ^ oi a. spoon 6 times daily, or 
oftcner if ufccl be. 

4. Cocoay I'l-oxi PiEcent Coi.ds — Remedy. — Linseed-oil, 
honey, and J-Aiuaica rum, equal parts of each ; to be shaken 
when used. 

This has giv^on very general satisfaction in recent coughs, 
but the foUowisig will probably give the most general satis- 
faction : 

5. Cough ^Mixture for Recent Colds. — Tincture of 
blood-root, syrups of ipecac and squills, tincture of balsam 
of tolu, and paregoric, equal parts of each. Dose. — Half 
of a tea-spoon whenever the cough is severe. It is a verj 
valuable medicine. 

_ 6. Cough Candy. — Tincture "^f squills 2 ozs. ; camphorated 
tincture of opium, and tincture of tolu, of each J- oz. ; wine of 
ipecac i oz. ; oils of gauLlheria 4 drops, sassafras 3 drops, and of 
aaise-seed oil 2 drops. The above mixture is to be put into 5 



172 D&. chase'8 recipes. 

lbs. of candy which is just ready to take from the fire, contin* 
iiicg tne boiling a little longer, so as to form into sticks. — PoT' 
islis rjiarmacy. 

Druggists will get confectioners to Eaake this for a trifle 
on the pound over common candies, they, of course, furnish- 
ing their own compound. 

7. CoroH Sykup. — Wahoo, bark of the root, and elecampane 
root, of each 2 ozs. ; spikenard root, and tamarack bark (unrosa* 
ed, but the moss may be brushed off,) of each 4 ozs. ; mandrake 
root i oz. ; blood-root i oz. ; mix alcohol 1 pt., with sufficient 
water to cover all, handsomely, and let stand 2 or 3 days ; then 
pour off 1 qt., putting on water and boiling twice, straining the 
two waters and boiling down to 3 pts. ; when cool add 3 lbs. of 
honey, and alcoholic fluid pomed off, with tincture of wine of 
ipecjic H 0Z8- ; if the cou^h should be very tight, double the 
ipecac ; and wash the feet daily in wann water, rubbing them 
thoroughly with a coarse towel, and, twice a week, extending 
the washing and rubbing to the whole body. Dose. — One table- 
spoon 3 to 5 times daily. 

If the cough is very troublesome when you lie down at 
night or on waking in the morning, put tar and spirits of 
nitre, of each one tea-spoon into a four ounce vial of water 
shaking well; then at these times just sip about a tea-spoon 
from the bottle without shaking, which will allay the tick- 
ling sensation, causing the cough. 

1 have cured a young lady, during the past winter, with 
the above syrup, whose cough had been pretty constant i'cwr 
over two years ; her friends hardly expected it ever to be 
any better, but it was only necessary to make the above 
amount of syrup twice to perform tlie cure. 

8. Cough Tincturk. — Tinctures of blood-root and bal- 
sam of tolu, of each four ounces ; tinctures of lobelia and 
digitalis, of each two ounces; tincture of opium (laudanum") 
one ounce; tincture of oil of anise (oil of anise one-half 
tea-spoon in an ounce of alcohol,) one ounce. Mix. DosB. 
— About one-half tea-spoon three times daily, in the same 
unount of honey, increasing to a tea-spoon if needed to 
loosen and lessen the cough. It has raised cases which 
doctors said must die, causing the patient to raise matter 
reaembling the death-smell, awful indeed. It will cure 
cough, not by stopping it, but by loosening it, assisting the 
lungs and throat to throw oflf the oflfending matter, which 
causes the cough, acd thus sct'entiJicaUj/ making th« c\ue 



MEDICAL DBPARTMKNf. 173 

(perfect; while most of the cough remedies kept for Bale, 
Biop the cough by their anodyne and constringing effects, 
retaining the mucus and all offending matters ia the blood, 
causing permanent disease of the lungs. 

But, notwithstanding the known value of this " Cough 
Tincture," where the tamarack and other ingredients can be 
obtained, I must give my preference to the " Cough Syrup," 
No. 7. 

9. Cough Pill.— Extract of hyoscyamus, balm of ^ilead 
■buds, with pulverized ipecac, or lobelia, and balsam of tir, of 
each i oz. ; oil of anise a few drops to form into common sized 
pills. Dose — One or 3 pills 3 or 4 times daily. 

Dr. Beach says he endeavored for more than twenty-five 
years to obtain a medicine to fulfill the indications which 
arc effected in this cough pill, particularly for ordinary 
colds and coughs ; and this admirably answers the inten- 
tion, excelling all others. It allays the irritation of the 
mucus membrane, the bronchial tubes, and the lungs, and 
will be found exceedingly valuable in deep-seated coughs 
and all diseases of the chest. The bad effects of opium 
(so much used in coughs) are in this pill entirely obviated, 
and it is altogether bettxir than the Cough Drops, which I 
now dispense with. — Beach's American Practice. 

WHOOPING COUGH— Strup.— Onions and garlics, sliced, 
of each 1 gill ; sweet oil 1 gill ; stew them in the oil, in a covered 
dish, to obtain the juices ; then strain and add honey 1 gill ; par- 
Cj^oric and spirits of camphor, of each \ oz. ; bottle and cork 
tight for use. Dose — For a chdd of 2 or 3 years, 1 tea-spoon 
3 or 4 times daily, or whenever the cough is troublesome, in- 
creasing or lessening, according to age. 

This is a granny's prescription, but I care not from what 
cource I derive information, if it gives the satisfaction that 
this has done, upon experiment. This lady has raised a 
large family of her own children, and grand children in 
abundance. We have tried it witL three of pur childrca 
also, and prescribed it in many other cases with satisfaction, 
for over seven years. It is excellent also in common colds 
p1.tended with much cough. This is from experience, too, 
whom I have found a vory competent teacher. 

It is said that an European physician has discovered that 
the dangerous symptoms of whooping cough arc due to Bup- 



174 DR. chase's aecipes. 

pressed cutaneous eruptions, and that an external irritant 
or artificial rash, is a sure remedy. See " Small Pox." 

2. Dailey's Whooping Cough Syrup. — Take the strongest 
West India rum, 1 pt. ; anise oil 2 ozs. ; honey 1 pt. ; Iciuun 
juice 4 ozs. ; mix. Dose — For adults 1 table-spoon 3 or 4 times 
a day, — children, 1 tea-spoon, with as much sugar and watei. 

He says that he has successfully treated more than ana 
hundred cases with this syrup. 

3. SOKENESS OR HOARSKNESS FROM CoUGHS. — ReJIEDT. « 

Spikenard root, bruised and steeped in a tea-pot, by using half 
water and half spirits ; then inhalinj? the steam, when not too hot, 
by breathing through the spout, will relieve the soreness and 
hoarseness of the lungs, or throat, arising fi'om much coughing. 

IN-GROWING TOE NAIL— To Cure.— We take the 
following remedy for a very common and very painful afflic- 
tion, from the Boston Medical and Surgical Journal: 

" The patient on whom I first tried this plan was a young 
lady who had been unable to put on a shoe for several 
months, and decidedly the worst I have ever seen. The 
edge of the nail was deeply undermined, the granulations 
formed a high ridge, partly covered with the skin ; and pua 
constantly oozed from the root of the nail, The whole toe 
was swollen and extremely painful and tender. My mode 
of proceeding was this : 

" I put a very small piece of tallow in a spoon, and heated il 
«ntil it became very hot, and poured it on the granulations. 
The effect was almost magical. Pain and tenderness -were at 
once relieved, and in a few days the granulations were all gone, 
the diseased parts dry and destitute of all feeling, and the'edge 
of the nail exposed so as to admit of being pared away without 
tiny inconvenience. The cure was complete, and the trouble 
never returned. 

" I have tried the plan repeatedly since, with the sam* 
satisfactory results. The operation causes but little pam, iif 
the tallow is properly heated. A repetition in some caaea 
might be necessary, although I have never met with a easje 
that did not yield to one application." It has now been 
proven, in many other cases, to be effectual, accomplishing; 
in one minute, without pain, all that can be effected by the 
painful application of nitrate of silver for several weeks*.''' 

OILS — British Oil. — Linseed and turpentine oils, 'i/ eaci" < 
ozs. ; oils of amber and juniper, of each 4 ozs. ; Barbadoea Ur 
8 oza. ; seneca oil 1 oz. ; lliz. 



MEDIGAL DEPARTMENT. 175 

This 19 an old prescription, but it is worth the whole 
eoJt of this book to any one needing an application for cuts, 
bruises, swellings, and sores of almost every description, on 
persons, horses, or cattle ; so is the following, also : 

3. Balm op Gilead Oil. — Balm of Gilead buds any quantity; 
place them in a suitable disn for stewing, and pour upon them 
sufficient sweet oil to Just cover them; stew thoroughly and 
press out all of the oil from the buds, and bottle for use. 

It wiil be found very valuable as a healing oil, or lard 
can be used in place of the oil, making an excellent oint- 
ment for cuts, bruises, &c. 

3. Haklem Oil, ok Welch Medicamenttjm. — Sublimed or 
flowers of sulphur and oil of amber, of each 2 az. ; linseed 
oil 1 lb. ; spirits of turpentine sufficient to reduce all to the con- 
sistence of thin molasses. Boil the sulphur in the linseed oil 
until it is dissolved, then add the oil of amber and turpen- 
tine. Dose — From 15 t^ 25 drops, morning and evening. 

Amongst the Welch and Germans it is extensively used 
for strengthening the stomach, kidneys, liver and lungs, 
asthma, shortness of breath, cough, inward or outward 
Bores, dropsy, worms, gravel, fevers palpitation of the 
heart, gMdiness, head-ache, &c., &c., by taking it inter- 
nally , and for ulcers, malignant sores, cankers, &c., anoint- 
ing externally, and wetting linen with it and applying to 
burns. In fact, if one-half that is said of its value is 
true, no other medicine need ever be made. It has this 
much in its favor, however, — probably no other medicine 
now in use, has been in use half so long, — over 160 years. 
The dose for a child is one drop for each year of its age. 

4. On. OF Spike. — The genuine oil of spike is made from the 
fa^ndvl^i sqdca (broad leaved lavender,) but the commercial oil of 
Bpike is made by taking the rock oil, and adding 2 ozs. of spirits 
ot turpentine to each pint. 

The rock oil which is obtained in Ohio, near Warren, is 
thicker and better than any other which I have ever used. 

5. Black Oils. — Best alcohol, tincture of arnica, British oil, 
»ud oil of tar, of each 2 ozs., and slowly add sulphuric acid } oa. 

These black oils are getting into extensive use, as a lini- 
ment, and are indeed valuable, especially in cases attended 
with much inflammation. 

6. Another IIkthod — Is to take sulphuric acid 2 ozs. ; nitri« 
»cid I oz. ; quicksilver i oz. ; put them together in a quart bot- 



170 Dl.. chase's R£CIPZ5. 

tie, or an open crock until dissolved ; then slowly add olive oi] 
and spints of turpentine, of each i pt., putting m the oil first. 
Let the work be done out of doors to avoid the fumes arising 
from the mixture ; when all is done, bottle and put in all th« 
cotton cloths it will dissolve, when it is fit for use. 

The mixture becomes quite hot, although no heat is used 
in making it, from setting free what is called latent, or 
insensible heat, by their combining togetner. Rev. Mr. 
Way, of Plymouth, Mich., cured himself of sore throat 
by taking a few drops of this black oil upon sugar, letting 
it slowly dissolve upon the tofigue, each evening after 
preaching, also wetting cloths and binding upon the neck. 
It will be necessary to avoid getting it upon cotton or linen 
which you would not wish to show a stain. A colt which 
had a fistulous opening between the hind legs, from a snag, 
as supposed, which reduced him so that he had to be lifted 
up, when down, was cured by injecting twice only, of this 
oil to fill the diseased place. Also a very bad fever sore, 
apon the leg, ah ! Excuse mc, upon the limb of a young 
lady, wbich baffled the scientific skill of the town in which 
she lived. In ca.se they bite too much in any of their ap- 
plicatiops, wet a piece of brown paper in water and lay it 
over the parts. 

OPODELDOC— Liquid. — Best brandy 1 qt. ; warm it and add 
gum camphor 1 oz. ; salammoniac and oil of wormwood, of each 
J oz. ; oils of origanum and rosemary, of each i oz. ; when th« 
oils are dissolved by the aid of the heat, add soft soap 6 oz. 

Its uses are too well known to need further description. 

DLA-KRHEAS — Cokdial. — The best rhubarb root, pulver- 
ized, 1 oz. ; peppermint leaf 1 oz. ; capsicum i oz. ; cover with 
boiling water and steep thoroughly, strain, and add bi-carbonate 
of potash and essence of cinnamon, of each i oz. ; with brandy 
(or good whisky) equal in amount to the whole, and loaf sugar 
4 oz. Dose — For an adult 1 to 2 table-spoons; for a child 1 tt 
2 tea-spoons, trom 3 to 6 times per day, until relief is obtained. 

This preparation has been my dependence, in my travel* 
and in my family for several years, and it has never failed 
us ; but in extremely bad cases it might be well to use, afler 
each passage, the following : 

2. Injection Fon Chrokic Diakkhka. — New milk, with thic* 
mucilage of slippery elm, of each 1 pt. ; sweet oil 1 gill ; molas- 
ses i pt. ; salt 1 oz ; laudanum 1 dr. Mix, and inject what ih« 
Dowels will retain. . 



MEDICAL DEPARTMEMT. 177 

Very many children, as well as grown persons die, annu- 
ally, of this disease, who might be saved by a proper use 
of the above injection and cordial. The injection should 
ne^er be neglected, if there is the least danger apprehended. 

Although I believe these would not fail in one case out 
of one hundred, yet I have some other prescriptions which 
are so highly spoken of, I will give a few more. The first 
from Mr. Hendee, of Warsaw, Indiana, for curing Diarrhea, 
or Bloody Flux, as follows : 

3. DiRARRHEA TiNCTURE. — Compound tincture of myrrh 6 
ozB. ; tincture of rhubard, and spirits of lavender, of each 5 ozs. ; 
tincture of opium 8 ozs. ; oils of anise and cinnamon, with gum 
camphor and tartaric acid, ot each i oz. Mix. Dose — One 
tea-spoon in ^ a tea-cup of warm water sweetened with loaf 
sugar ; repeat after each passage. 

He says he has cured many cases after gives up bv phy- 
cians. It must be a decidedly good preparation. Or, 
again : 

4. DiARRHBA Drops. — Tincture of rhubarb, and compound 
spirits of lavender, of each 4 ozs. ; laudanum 2 ozs. ; cinnamon 
oil 2 drops. ;Mix. Dose — One tea-spoon every 3 or 4 hours, 
according to the severity of the case. 

This speaks from ten years successful experience. 

5. Diarrhea Syrup — For Cases brought on by LongCon- 
TTNUED Use op Calomel. — Boxwood, black cherry and prickly 
*sh barks, with dandelion root, of each 2 ozs ; butternut bark 1 
oz. ; boil thoroughly, strain and boil down to 1 qt. ; then add 
loaf sugar 2 lbs., and alcohol 1 gill, or brandy i pt. Dose — A 
wine-glass from 8 to 5 times daily, according to circumstances. 

This regulates the bowels and tones up the system at the 
game time, no matter whether loose or costive. In one case 
of costiveness it brought a man around all right who had 
been sowed up tight for twelve days. On the other hand, 
it has regulated the system after months of calomel-Diarrhea, 

6. WiNTERGREKN Berries havc been found a valuable cor- 
rector of Diarrhea brought on by the long-continued use of cal- 
omel in cases of fever, eating a quart of them in 3 days time. 

The gentleman of whom I obtained this item tells me 
that wintergreen essence has done the same thing, when the 
berries could not be obtained. In the first place, " every- 
thing else," as the saying is, had been tried in vain, and the 
taau's wife, in coming across the woods, found these berrici 

PK. chase's eecipes. 



178 DR. chase's EE01PE8 

and picked some, which when the husband saw, he crayed^ 
and would not rest without them, and, notwithstanding the 
fears of friends, they cured him. Many valuable discove- 
ries are made in a similar manner. 

7. Dried Whortleberries, steeped, and the juice drank 
freely, has cured Diarrhea and Bloody Flux, both in childruu and 
adults. 

8. Diarrhea and Canker Tea.— Pulverized hemlock bark^ 
(it is generally kept by Druggists,) 1 table-spoon, steeped lu half 
A tea-cup of water. 

For young children, in Diarrhea, or Canker, orwucn they 
are combined, feed a tea-spoon of it, or less, accoramg to 
the child's age, two or three times daily, until cured. To 
ovetcoHie costiveness, which may arise from its vae, scorch 
fresh butter, and give it in place of oil, and in quantities 
corresponding with oil. Children have been saved with 
three cents worth of this bark which " Alopath" said must 
die. If good for children, it is good for adults, by simply 
increasing the dose. 

9. Sumac bobs, steeped and sweetened with loaf sugar, has 
been found very valuable for Diarrhea ; adding in very severe 
cases, alum pulverized, a rounding tea-spoon, to 1 pt. of tlie 
strong tea. Dose — A tea, to a table-spoon, according to the age 
of the child, and the severity of the case. 

It saved the life of a child when two M. D.'s (Mule Dri- 
vel's,) said it could not be saved. 

CHOLERA TINCTURE.— Select the thinest cinnamon bark, 
cloves, gimi ^uiac, all pulverized, of each 1 oz. ; very best 
brandy 1 qt. Mix, and shake occasionally for a week or two. 
Dose — A tea-spoon to a table-spoon for an adult, according to 
the condition and robustness or strength of the system. It may 
be repeated at intervals of 1 to 4 hours, if necessary, or mucL 
more often, according to the condition of the bowels. 

This I have from an old railroad-boss who used it with hii 
men during the last Cholera in Ohio, and never lost a man. 
whilst other jobbers left the road, or lost their men in abund 
ance, thinking the above too simple to be of any value. 

2. Isthmus Cholera Tinctcre. — Tincture of rhubarb, cay. . 
enne, opium, and spirits of camphor, with essence of pepper- 
mint, equal parts of each, and each as stron? as can be made 
Dose — From 5 to 30 drops, or even to 60, and repeal until relief 
ifi obtained, every 5 to 30 minutes. 



MEDICAL DKPA&TMESrr. 1/9 

0. H. Cuyler, who was detained upon the Isthmus du- 
ring the cholera period, was saved by this prescription, as 
alsw many others. 

3 Cholera Preventive. — HoflFman's anodyne and essence 
of ptsrpermint, of each 2 ozs. ; tincture of ginger 1 oz. ; lauda- 
nuu /spirits of camphor, and tincture of cayenne, of each i oz. ; 
mix. Dose — For an adult, from a tea to a table-spoon, accor- 
ding o symptoms. 

4. • -HOLERA Cordial. — Chloroform, spirits of camphor, laud- 
anum and aromatic spirits of ammonia, of each 1 dr. ; cinnar 

-moD 'rt-ater 2 ozs. ; mix. DosE. — From 1 tea to a table-spoon, 
to be >rell shaken, and taken with sweetened water. 

5. Gkrman Cholera Tincture. — Sulphuric ether 2 ozs. ; 
and pm mto it castor and gentian, of each i oz. ; opium and 
aganc, ^ach 1 dr. ; gum camphor i oz. ; let them stand 2 days, 
then adu alcohol 1 qt., and let stand 14 dS,ys, when it is ready 
for use. Dose. — One tea-spoon every 15 ©r 20 minutes, accor- 
dmg to yie urgency of the case. 

I obtbaned this prescription of a German at Lawrence- 
burgh, Ijid., who had done very much good with it during 
the last cholera period in that place. 

6. Egyi riAN Cure for Cholera. — Best Ja^naica ginger root, 
braised. 1 )z. ; cayenne 2 teaspoons ; boil all in 1 qt. of water 
to i pt., aud add loaf sugar to form a thick syrup. Dose. — One 
table-spoou every 15 minutes, until vomiting and purging ceases, 
then follow up with a blackberry tea. 

The foregoing was obtained of a physician who practiced 
in Egypt, (^not the Illinois Egypt,) during the great devas- 
tation of the cholera tberf, with which he saved many 
lives. 

7. India jf pj^scriptiom ?or Cholera. — First dissolve gum 
camphor i o/. \n IJ ozs. of alcohol — second, give a tea spoon of 
spirits of hartshorn in a wine glass of water, and follow it every 
5 minutes wilh 15 drops of the camphor, in a tea-spoon of wa- 
ter, for 3 d^^F-es, then wait 15 minutes, and commence again as 
before, and continue the camphor for 30 minutes, unless there is 
returning heat. Should this be tha case, give one more dose 
and the cure is effected; let them perspire freely, (which the 
medicine is designed to cause,) as upon this the life depends, but 
add no additional clothing. 

Lady Ponsonby, who had spent several years in India, 
and had proved the efficacy of the foregoing, returned to 
Dublin in 1832, and published it in the Dublin Mail, for 
the benefit of her countrymen, declaring that she never 
knew it U? fall. 



180 DR. CHAt^E's RECIPES. 

I would say, be very sure you have the cholera, as the tea- 
spoon of hartshorn would be a double dose for ordinary 
cases of disease. 

8. Nature's CnoLEUA Mkdictse. — Laudanum, spirits of cam- 
plior, and tinctui-e of rhubarb, equal parts of each. Dose — 
One table-spoon every 15 to 30 minutes until relieved. 

In attacks of cholera, the patient usually feels a general 
uneasiness and heat about the stomach, increasing to actual 
distress and gi-eat anxiety, finally sickness, with vomiting 
and purging, surface constringed, the whole powers of the 
system concentrated upon the internal organs, involving the 
nervous system, bringing on spasms, and in the end, death. 
Now, whatever will allay this uneasiness, drive to the sur- 
face, correct the discharges, and soothe the nerves, caret 
the disease. The laudanum does the first and the last, the 
camphor drives to the surface, and the rhubarb conecta 
the alimentary canal ; and if accompanied with the hot 
bath, frictions, &c., is doubly sure. And to show what may 
be done with impunity in extreme cases, let me say that 
Merritt Blakeley, living near Flat Rock, Mich., came homo 
from Detroit, during the last cholera season, having the 
cholera in its last stage, that is, with the vomiting, purging 
and spasms j the foregoing medicine being in the house, 
the wife, in her hurry and excitement, in place of two-thirds 
of a table-spoon, she read two-thirds of a tea-cup; and 
gave it accordingly, and saved his life ; whilst if taken in 
the spoon doses, at this stage of the disease, he would most . 
undoubtedly never have rallied from the collapse into which 
he wjis fast sinking ; yet in the commencement they would 
have been as effectual ; so, mistake, would be gen«rally ac- 
credited for saving the patient, I say Providence did the 
work. 

Five to 10 drops would be a dose for a child of 2 to 5 yeart 
and in this dose it saved a child of 2i years in a bad case ol 
bloody flux. 

If any one is permitted to die with all these prescription 
before them, it must be because a proper attention is no* 
given ; for God most undoubtedly works through the use of 
means, and is best pleased to see his children wear out, 
rather than h7-eak by coUigion of machinery on the way. 

CHOLIG AND CHOLERA MORBUS— Tbbatment 



MKDIOAL DEPARTMKNT. 181 

—Cholera morbus arises from a diseased condition of the 
bile, often brought on by over-indulgence with vegetables, 
espfcoially unripe fruits ; usually commencing with sickness 
and pain at the stomach, followed by the most excruciating 
pain and griping of the bowels, succeeded by vomiting and 
purging, which soon prostrate the patient. The person 
finds himself unavoidably drawn into a coil by the contrao* 
tion of' the muscles of the abdomen and extremities. Thirst 
very great, evacuations first tinged with bile, and finally, 
nearly ajl, very bilious. 

Tbeatment. — The difficulty arises from the acidity of th# 
bile; then take saleratus, peppermint leaf, and rhubarb root 
puivjrized, of each a rounding tea-spoon, put into a cup, 
whi( h j'ou can cover, and pour upon them, boiling water ^ pt.; 
whfc-i nearly cold add a table-spoon of alcohol, or twice as 
muc.i brandy or other spirits. Dose — Two to 3 table-spoons 
ever ^ 20 to 30 minutes, as often and as long as the vomiting and 
ljQi!C ful purgations continue. If there should be long continued 
fftiii about the naval, use the "Injection" as mentioned under 
t'j/,(, head, in connection with the above treatment, and you will 
b?,(v, nothing to fear. If the first dose or two should be vomited 
repeat it immediately, until retained. 

The above preparation ought to be made by every family, 
and kept on hand, by bottling ; for diseases of this character 
are as liable to come on in the night as at any other time ; 
then much time must be lost in making fires, or getting the 
articles together with which to make it. 

2. Common Cholic. — There is a kind of cholic which 
some persons ure afflicted with, from their youth up, not 
attended with vomiting or purging. I was afflicted with it, 
trom my earliest recollection until I was over twenty years 
f>f age, sometimes two or three times, yearly. 

In one of theae fits, about that age, a neighbor woman foame 
\i, and as soon as she found out what was the matter with me, , 
<»ne went out and pulled up a bunch of blue vervain, knocked 
Jie dirt from the roots, then cut them oflF and put a good hand- 
ful of them into a basin, and poured boiling water upon them, 
And steeped for a short time, poured out a saucer of the tea and 
jave me to drink, asking no questions, but simply saying, " If 
you will drink this tea every day for a month, you will never 
nave cholic again as long as you live." I drank it, and in 15 
minutes I was perfectly happy ; the transition from extreme paia 
to immediate and perfect relief, is too great to allow one to find 
words adequate to describe the diflferencc. 



^62 D&. CHAS£'S RECIPES. 

I continued its use as directed, and have not had a cholio 
pain since, nearly thirty years. I have told it to others, 
with the same result. It also forms a good tonic in agues, 
and after fevers, &c. 

CARMINATIVES. — For the more common pains of th# 
stomach, arising from accumulating gas, in adults or child 
ren, the following preparation will be found very valuable, 
and much better than the plan of resorting to any of the 
opium mixtures for a constant practice, as many unwisely, 
or wickedly, do. See the remarks after " Godfrey's Cordial,'* 
and through this subject. 

Compound spirits of lavender, spirits of camphor, and tinc- 
ture of ginger, of each 1 oz. ; sulphuric ether and tiiicture of 
cayenne, of each i oz. Mix and keep tightly corked. Dose— 
For an adult, one tea-spoon every 15 minutes, until relieved ; for 
a child of 2 years, 5 drops ; and more or less, according to age 
and the severity of the pain. 

3. CARMiNATrvE FOR Childuen.— Angelica and white rootSj. 
of each 4 oz. ; valerian and sculcap roots, with poppy heads, of 
each 2 ozs. ; sweet-flag root J oz. ; anise, dill, and fennel seed, 
with catmint leaves and flowers, motherwort and mace, of each 
1 oz. ; castor and cochineal, of each i oz ; camphor gum 2 scru- 
ples, benzoic acid (called flower of benzoin) i oz. ; alcohol and 
water, of each 1 qt., or rum, or brandy 2 qts. ; loaf or cruslied 
sugar 1 lb. Pulverize all of the herbs and roots, moderately fine, 
and place in a suitable sized bottle, adding the spirits, or alcohol 
and water, and keep warm for a week, shaking once or twice 
every day; then filter or strain, and add the camphor and beu- 
eoin, shaking well ; now dissolve the sugar in another quart 
of water, by heat, and add to the spirit tincture, and all is com- 
plete. Dose. — For a very "oung child, from 3 to 5 drops ; if 1 
year old, about 10 drops, aiid from that up to 1 teaspoon if 2 to 
5 years old, &c. For adults, from 1 to 4 tea-spoons, according to 
the severity of the pain — to be taken in a cup of catmint or cat- 
nip tea for adults, and in a spoon of the same for children. It 
may be repeated every 2 to 6 hours, as needed. 

Uses. — It eases pain, creates a moderate appetite and 

i)er8piration, and produces refreshing sleep ; is also execl- 
ent for removing flatulency or wind cholic, and valuable in 
hysteria and other nervous affections, female debility, &c , in 
place of the opium anodynes. 

8EIDL1TZ POWDEK&-GKNTJINK.— Rochelle salts 3 drs. ; 
bi -carbonate of soda 2 scruples ; put these into a blue paper, and 
put tartaric acid 35 grs. into a white paper. To use, pitt each 



p 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT 183 

{nto different tumblers; fill i with*water and pat a little loaf 
BUgar in with the acid, then pour together and drink. 

This makes a very pleasant cathartic, and ought to be 
used more generally than it is, in place of more severe 
medicines. Families can buy 3 ozs. of the Rochelle-salts, 
and 1 oz. of the bi-carbonate of soda, and mix evenly to- 
gether, using about 2 tea-spoons for 1 glass, and have the 
tartaric acid by itself, and use a little over ^ a tea-spoon of 
it for the other glass, with a table-spoon of sugar, all well 
dissolved, then pour together and drink while effervescing; 
and they will find this to do just as well as to bave them 
weighed out and put up in papers, which, cost three times as 
much, and do no better. Try it, as a child will take il 
with pleasure, as a nice beverage, and ask for more. 

A lady once lost her life, thinking to have a little sport, 
by drinking one glass of this preparation, following it 
directly with the other ; the large amount of gas, disen- 
gaged, ruptured the stomach immediately. 

DIPTHERIA — Dr. Phinney's Remedy, op Boston 
— Dr. Phinney, of Boston, furnishes the Journal of that 
city with a recipe for diptheria, which has recently been 
re-published by the Detroit Daily Advertiser^ containing 
60 much sound sense, and so decidedly the best thing that 
I have ever seen recommended for it, that I cannot forbear 
giving it an insertion, and also ra^commend it as the de- 
pendence in that disease. 

He says " the remedy on which I chiefly depend is the 
Actea Racemosa, or black snake-root, which is u.sed both 
locally as a gargle and taken internally. 

As a gargle, 1 tea-spoon of the tincture is added to 2 table- 
Bpoons of water, and gargled ei>ery hmir for tioenty-jmir hours, or 
till the progress of the disease is arrested; after which the inter- 
rals may be extended to an hour and a half, or more, as the 
symptoms may justify. In connection with the use of the gar- 
gle, or separately, the a<lult patient should take internally to the 
amount of two or three tea-spoons of the tincture in the course 
of twenty-four hours. 

" In addition to the foregoing, give 10 drops of the muriated 
Uncture of iron 3 times In the 24 hours, and a powder from 3 to 
5 giains of the chlorate of potash in the intervals. 

'' Under this treatment a very decided improvement tali»i 
place within the first twenty-four hours, the ash celorod 



184 DR. OHASK'B RECIPEB. 

Qcmbrane disappears usually within two days, and tfc« 
patient overcomes the malignant tendency of the disease. 
"The foregoing doses are for adults; for children they 
should of course be diminished according to age, &c. 14 
will be observed that great importance is attached to the 
frequent use of the gargle — that is, every hour — in order 
to overcome the morbific tendency of disease by a con- 
stantly counteracting impression. In order to guard 
against a relapse, an occasional use of the remedies should 
be continued for several days after the removal of the 
m<5mbrane and subsidence of unpleasant symptoms. To 
complete the cure, a generous diet and other restorativca 
may be used as the intelligent practitioner shall direct." 

CATHARTICS.— Vegetable Phtsic— Jalap and pepper- 
mint leaf, of each 1 oz. ; senna 2 ozs. ; pulverize all very finely, 
and sift through gauze, bottle it and keep corked. Dosk — Put a 
rounding tea-spoon of the powder and a heaping tea-spoon of 
BUgiir into a cup, and pour 3 or 4 spoons of boiling water upon 
thim ; when cool stir it up and drink all. The best time for 
taking it is in the morning, not taking breakfast, but drinking 
freely of corn-meal gruel. If it does not operate in 3 hours, re- 
peat half the dose until a free operation is obtained. 

Dr. Beach first brought this preparation, nearly in its 
preseii. proportions, to the notice of the Eclectic practition- 
ers who have found it worthy of very great confidence, and 
L^pplicable in all cases where a general cathartic action is re- 
quired. It may be made into syrup or pills, if preferred. 

2. Indian Cathartic Pills.- -Aloes and gamboge, of each I 
oz. ; mandrake and blood-root, with g^ara mjTrh, of each i oz. ; 
gum camphor and cayenne, of each 1^ drs. ; ginger 4 ozs. ; all 
finely pulverized and thoroughly mixed, with thick mucilage 
(made by putting a little water upon equal quantities of ^lu 
arable and gum tragacanth,) into pill mass ; then formed mto 
common sized pills. Dose — Two to 4 pills, according to tha 
obustness of the patient. 

Families should always have some of these cathartics, aa 
well as other remedies, in the house, to be prepared for acci- 
dent, providence, or emergence, whichever you please to 
call it. They may be sugar-coated, as directed under that 
head, if desired. 

TOOTHACHE AND NEURALGIA REMEDIES.— Mag- 
netic Tooth Cordial and Pain Killer.— Best alcohol 1 oz. 
laudanum i oz. ; chloroform, liquid measiu'e, f oz. ; gum ctuQ 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 18& 

phor J oz. ; oil of elovea i dr. ; sulphuric ether f oz . ; and oil of 
Uvcnder 1 dr. If there is a nerve exposed this will quiet it. 
tLpply with lint. Rub also on the gums and upon the face 
agaiifst the tooth, freely. 

" Tbe raging toothache why endure, when there is found a perfect care, 
■Which saves the tooth and stops the pain, and gives the sufferer ease again." 

In the case of an ulcerated tooth at Georgetown, Ohio, 
Mr. Jenkins, the proprietor of the " Jenkins' House," had 
been suffering for eight days, and I relieved him by bathing 
ths face with this preparation, using a sponge, for two or 
three minutes only, taking a tea-spoon or two into the mouth, 
for a minute or two, as it had broken upon the inside. The 
operation of the cordial was really mayical, according to 
old notions of cure. 

I offered to sell a grocer a book, at Lawrenceburgh, Ind. 
He read until he saw the " Magnetic Tooth Cordial" men- 
mentioned, then he says, "If you will cure mi/ toothache, I 
will buy one." I applied the cordial, it being late Saturday 
ftvening, and on Monday morning he was the first man ou 
hand for his book. 

The Sheriff of Wayne Co., Ind., at Centerville, had been 
mffering three days of neuralgia, and I gave him such de- 
cided relief in one evening, with this cordial, that he gave 
me a three-dollar piece, with the remark, " Take whatever 
yuu please." 

In passing from Conneatville, Pa., upon a canal boat, the 
cook, (who was wife of one of the steersmen,) was taken, 
after supper, with severe pain in the stomach. There be- 
ing no peppermint on board, and as strange as it may appear, 
no spirits of any kind whatever; I was applied to as a phy- 
sician to contrive something for her relief; I ran my mind 
over the articles I had with me, and could not hit upon any 
other so likely to benefit as the "Tooth Cordial," arguing 
in my mind that if good for pain where it could be applied 
to the spot externally, I could apply it to the point of paiu 
internally in this case, (the stomach,) as well. I gave her» 
tea-spoon of it in water, and waited five minutes without 
relief, but concluding to go " whole hog or none," I re- 
peated the dose, and inside of the next five minutes she was 
perfectly cured. Her husband, the other steersman also, 
and one of the drivers, bought each a book, and the next 
week, in Erie, one of her neighbors bought another, upoo 



186 sa. chase's recipes 

her recommendation ; since which myself and agents hav< 
freely used it, and recommend it for similar conditions with 
equal success. 

The cases are too numerous to mention more. I mention 
these to give confidence to purchasers, that all, who need it, 
will not fail to give it a trial. It is good for any local pain, 
wherever it can be applied. Pain will not long exist under 
ite use. 

2. floiTEOPATHic Tooth Cordial. — Alcohol i pt. ; tincture of 
arnica and chloroform, of each 1 oz. ; oil of cloves i oz. Mix 
and apply as the other. 

There are many persons who would prefer this last to 
the foregoing, from the presence of arnica ; and it is espe- 
cially valuable as a liniment for bruises involving effusion 
of blood under the skin. 

3. Neuraxgia — Internal Remedy. — Sal-ammoniac } dr., 
dissolve in water 1 oz. Dose — One table-spoon every 3 minutes, 
for 20 minutes, at the end of which time, if not before, the pain 
will have disappeared. 

The foregoing is from a gentleman who had been long 
afflicted with the disease, who found no success with any 
other remedy. Instead of common water, the " Camphor 
Water" or " Mint AVater " might by some be preferred. 
The ammonia is a very diffusable stimulant, quicklj ex- 
tending to the whole system, especially tending to the sur- 
face. 

4. Keng of Oils, for Neuralgia and Kheumatism. — Burn- 
ing fluid 1 pt. ; oils of cedar, hemlock, sassafras, and origanum, 
of each 2 ozs. ; carbonate of ammonia, pulverized, 1 oz. ; mix. 
Directions. — Apply freely to the nerve and gums, around the 
t(K)th ; and to the face, in neuralgic pains, by wetting brown 
paper and laying on the parts, not too long, for fear of blister- 
ing, — to the nerves of teeth by lint. 

A blacksmith, of Sturgis, Mich., cured himself and 
others, with this, of neuralgia, after physicians could give 
no relief. 

5. Several years ago, I was stopping for a number of 
weeks at a hotel near Detroit ; whilst there, toothache was 
once made the subject of conversation, at which time the 
landlady, a Mrs. Wood, said she had been driven by it, to 
an extreme measure — no less than boiling wormwood herb 
is alcohol and taking a table-spoon of it into the mouth. 



MEDICAL DEPAKTMENT, 187 

boiling liot, immediately closing the mouth, turning the 
head in such a way as to bring the alcohol into contact 
with all of the teeth, then spitting it out and taking the 
Becond immediately, in the same way, having the boiling 
kept up by sitting the tin containing it upon a shovel of hot 
coals, bringing it near the mouth. She said she never had 
toothache after it, nor did it injure the mouth in the least, 
but, for the moment, she thought her head had coW 
lapsed, or the heavens and earth come together. And 
iilthough the lady's appearance and deportment was such 
is to gain general esteem, I dared not try it or recommend 
>t to others. But during the last season I found a gentje- 
man who had tried the same thing, in the same way, ex- 
cept he took four spoons in his mouth at a time, and did 
aot observe to keep his mouth closed to prevent the con- 
tact of the air with the alcohol, the result of which was a 
ecalded mouth, yet a perfect cure of the pain and no re- 
currence of it for twelve years up to the time of conversa- 
tion. And I do not now give the plan expecting it to be- 
come a general favorite, but more to show the severity of 
the pain, forcing patients to such extreme remedies. It 
would not be applicable only in cases where the pain was 
confined entirely to the teeth. 

6. Horse-radish Eoot, bruised and bound upon the 
face, or other parts where pain is located, has been found 
very valuable for their relief. And I think it better than 
the leaf for drafts to the feet, or other parts. 

7. Teeth — Extracting with little or no Pain. — 
Dr. Dunlap, a dentist of Chillicothe, 0., while filling a 
tooth for me, called my attention to the following recipe, 
given by a dental publication, to prevent pain in extracting 
teeth. He had used it. It will be found valuable for all 
who must have teeth extracted, for the feeling is suffi- 
ciently unpleasant even when all is done that can be for 
Js relief. 

Tincture of aconite, chloroform, and alcolol of each 1 oz. , 
morphine 6 grs. Mix. Manner of Application. — Moisten 
two pledgets of cotton with the liquid and apply to the gums on 
each side of the tooth to be extracted, holding them to their 
place with pliers or some other convenient instrument for 5 to 
15 minutes rubbing the gum freely inside and out. 



188 DR. chase's recipes. 

My wife has had six teeth taken at a sitting, b it the lait 
two she wished to have out, she could not malcj up her 
mind to th« work until I promised her it should not hurt 
in the extraction, which I accomplished by accompanying 
her to Dr. Porter's dental office, of this city, and adminis 
tering chloroform in the usual way, just to the point ol 
nervous stimulation, or until its effects were felt over the 
whole system, at which time the teeth were tnken, not 
causing pain, she says, equal to toothache for one minute 
Not the slightest inconvenience was experienced from the 
effects of the chloroform. I consider this plar, and eo 
does Dr. Porter, far preferable to administering it untii 
entire stupefaction, by which many valuable lives have 
been lost. 

8. Dektriricb which Removes Tartareous Adhesions, 
Arrests Decay, and Induces a ELealthy Action of thb 
GcMS. — Dissolve 1 oz. of borax in H pints of boiling water, and 
when a little cool, add 1 tea-spoon of the tincture of myrrh and 
I table-spoon of the spirits of camphor, and bottle for use. Di- 
rections. — At bedtime, wash out the mouth with water ; usin? 
a badger's hair brush (bristle brushes tear the gums and shoull 
never be used) ; then take a table-spoon of the dentrifice with as 
much warm water, and rub the teeth and gums well, each night 
until the end is attained. 

9. Tooth- Wash — To Remove Blackness.— Pure muriatic 
acid 1 oz. ; water 1 oz. ; honey 3 ozs. ; mix. Take a tooth brash 
and wet it freely with this preparation, and briskly rab the black 
teeth, and in a moment's time they will be perfectly white ; then 
immediately wash out the mouth with water, that the add ma.y 
not act upon the enamel of the teeth. 

It need not be used often, say once in three or foui 
months, as the teeth become black again, washing out 
quickly every time. "Without the washing after its use it 
would injure the teeth, with it, it never will. This blackneea 
is hard to remove, even with the brush and tooth powder. 

10. Dr. Thompson, of Evansville, Ind., gives the above 
n twenty drop doses, three times daily, for laryngitis or bron- 
chitis, taken in a little water, throwing it back past the 
teeth. 

11. Tooth Powder — Excellent. — Take any quantity of 
finely pulverized chalk, and twice as much finely pulverized 
charcoal ; make very fine ; then add a very little suds made 
with Castile soap, and sufficient spirits of camphor to wet all u 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 189 

% thica paste. Apply with the finger, rabbing thoroughly, and 
il will whiten the teeth better than any tooth powder you can 
bay. 

I noticed the past season, a piece going the rounds of the 
papers, " That charcoal ought not to be used on the teeth." 
1 will only add that a daughter of mine has used this pow- 
der over six years, and her teeth are very white, and no 
damage to the enamel, as yet. Six years would show up 
the evil, if death was in the 2>ot. Coal from basswood or 
other soft wood is the easiest pulverized. 

ESSENCES. — Druggists* rules for making essences in to 
use one ounce of oil to one quart of alcohol, but many of 
them do not use more than half of that amount, whilst most 
j>f the peddlars do not have them made of over one-fourth 
^hat strength. I would hardly set them away if presented 
I have always made them as follows : 

Peppermint oil 1 oz. ; best alcohol 1 pt. And the same amount 
of any other oil for any other essences which you desire to make. 
Dose — A dose of this strength of essence will be only from 10 
to 30 drops. 

With most essences a man can drink a whole bottle with- 
out danger, or benefit. Peppermint is colored with tincture 
of tumeric, cinnamon with tincture of red sandal or sanders 
wood, and wintergreen with tincture of kino. There is no 
color, however, for essences, so natural as to put the green 
leaf of which the oil is made into the jar of essence, and 
let it remain over night, or about twelve hours ; then pour 
off, or filter if for sale. But if families are making for 
their own us<? they need not bother to color them at all. 
But many believe if they are high colored they are neces- 
sarily strong, but it has no effect upon the strength what- 
ever, unless colored with the leaf or bark, as here recom- 
mended. Cinnamon bark docs in place of the leaf. See 
"Extracts." 

TINCTURES. — In making any of the tinctures in com 
mon use. or in making any of the medicines called for ia 
this work, or in works generally, it is not only expected, but 
absolutely necessary, that the roots, leaves, barks, &c., 
should be dry, unless otherwise directed ; then : 

Take the root, herb, bark, leaf or gum called for, 2 ozs. ; and 
l/rui»e it, then povu: boiling water i pt., upoii it, and when sold 



190 DE. chase'8 recipes. 

add best alcohol i pt., keeping warm for from 4 to 6 days, or 
letting it stand 10 or 12 days without warmth, shaking once oi 
twice daily ; then filter or strain ; or it may stand upon the drega 
and be carefully poured off as needed. 

With any person of common judgment, the foregoing 
directions are just as good as to take up forty times as much 
space by saying — take lobelia, herb and seed, 2 ozs. ; alcohol 
J pt. ; boiling water J pt., — then do the same thing*, over 
and over again, with every tincture which may be called for; 
or at least those who cannot go ahead with the foregoing in- 
struction."', are not fit to handle medicines, at all ; so I leave 
the subject with those for whom the given information is 
sufficient. 

In making compound tinctures, you can combine tho 
simple tinctures, or make them by putting the difTerent arti« 
cles into a bottle together, then use the alcohol and water it 
would require if you was making each tincture separately. 

TETTER, RINGWORM, AND BARBER'S ITCH— To 
Cure. — Take the best Cuba cigars, smoke one a sufficient length 
of time to accumulate i or ^ inch of ashes upon the end of the 
cigar ; now wet the whole surface of the sore with the saliva 
fi'Om the mouth, then rub the ashes from the end of the cigar 
thoroughly into, and all over the sore ; do this three times a day, 
and inside of a week all will be smooth and well. 

I speak from extensive experience ; half of one cigar 
cured myself when a barber would not undertake to shave 
me It is equally successful in tetters on other parts of the 
body, hands, &c * 

Tobacco is very valuable in its place (medicine)— like 
spirits, however, it makes slaves of its devotees. 

2. Narrow leaved (yellow) dock root, sliced and 
soaked in good vinegar, used as a wash, is highly recom- 
mended as a cure for tetter, or ring-worm. 

BALSAMS.— Dr. R. W. Htjtchins' Indian Healing, porm- 
KRiiY, Peckbam's Cough Balsam. — Clear, pale rosii^ 3 lbs., and 
melt it, adding spirits of turpentine 1 qt. ; balsam of tolu 1 oz t; 
balsam of fir 4 oza. ; oil of hemlock, origanum, with Venice tur- 
pentine, of each 1 oz. ; strained honey 4 ozs. ; mix well, and 
bottle. Dose— Six to 12 drops ; for a child of six, 3 to 5 drops, 
on a little sugar. The dose can be varied according to the 
ability of the stomach to bear it, and the necessity of the case. 

It is a valuable preparation for coughs, internal Daini. or 
strains, and works benignly upon the kidneys. 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 191 

S. Doctor Mitchel'b Balsam, for Cxjts, Brthses, fto.>- 

F*?nugreek seed, and gum myrrh, of each 1 oz. ; sassafras root- 
b*rk, a good handful ; alcohol 1 qt. Put all into a bottle, and 
keep warm for 5 days. i 

Dr. Mitchel, of Pa., during his life, made great use of 
^>is balsam, for cuts, bruises, abrasions, &c., and it will be 
found valuable for such purposes. 

A.RTIFICIAL SKIN— For Burns, Bruises, Abrasions, &a 
P'iOOF Against AVater. — Take gun cotton and Venice turpen- 
tiue, equal parts of each, and dissolve them in 20 times as much 
eulphuric ether, dissolving the cotton fii"st, then adding the tur- 
pentine ; keep it corked tightly. 

The object of the turpentine is to prevent pressure or 
pinching caused by evaporation of the ether when applied 
to a bruised surface. Water does not affect it, hence its 
value for cracked nipples, chapped hands, surface bruises, 
etc., etc. 

DISCUTIENTS— To Scatter Swellings.— Tobacco and 
cicuta (water hemlock) leaves, of each 2 ozs. ; stramonium, 
(jinipsom) and solanam nigrum (garden night shade, sometimes 
erroneously called deadly night shade,) the leaves, and yellow 
dock root, of eacli 4 ozs. ; bitter-sweet, bark of the root, 3 ozs. 
Extract the strength by boiling with water, pressmg out, and 
re-boiling, straining and carefully boiling down to the consist- 
ence of an ointment, then add lard 18 ozs., and simmer together. 

It will be used for stiff joints, sprains, bruises attended 
with swelling when the skin is unbroken, for cancerous 
lumps, scrofulous swellings, white swellings, rheumatic 
swellings, &c. It is one of the best discutients, or scatterers 
in use, keeping cancers back, often for months. 

SMALL POX — To Prevent Pitting the Face. — A 
great discovery is reported to have recently been made by a 
Surgeon of the English army in China, to prevent pitting 
or marking the face. The mode of treatment is as follows : 

When, in small pox, the preceding fever is at its height, and 
Just before the eruption appears, the chest is thoroughly rubbed 
with Croton Oil and Tartaremetic Ointment. This causes the 
whole of the eruption to appear on that part of the body to the 
relief of the rest. It also secures a full and complete eruption, 
and thus prevents the disease from attacking the internal organs. 
This is said to be now the established mode of treatment in the 
English army in China, by general orders, and ia regarded aa 
perfectly effectual. 



192 DR. ohase'b recipes. 

It is a well known fact, that diseasa is most likely to 
make its attack upon the weakest parts, and especially upon 
places in the system which have been recently weakened by 
previous disease; hence, if an eruption (disease) is caui^ea 
by the application of croton oil mixed with a little of the 
Tartaremetic Ointment, there is every reason to believe that 
the eruption, in Small Pox, will locato upon that part in- 
stead of the face. The application should be made upon 
the breast, fore part of the thighs, &c., not to interfere wiib 
the posture upon the bed. 

It has been suggested that a similar application will re- 
lieve whooping-cough, by drawing the irritation' from tho 
lungs ; if so, why will it not help to keep measles to the 
surface, especially when they have a tendency to the inter- 
nal organs, called, striking in. It is worth a trial, in any 
of these cases. See " Causes of Inflammation," under the 
head of " Inflammation." , 

2. Common Swellings, to Reduce.— Tory-weed poundefJ nt 
as to mash it thoroughly and bound upon any common swelling, 
will very soon reduce the parts to their natural size. 

This weed may be known from its annoyance to sheep 
raisers, as ic furnishes a small burr having a dent on one 
side of it. There are two species of it, but the burr of the 
other kind has no dent — is round. It will be found very 
valuable in rheumatisms attended with swellings. 

WENS — To Cuke. — Dissolve copperas in water to makr> it 
very strong ; now take a pin, needl e, or sharp knife and prick, 
or cut the wen in about a dozen places, just sufficient to causf> it 
ti> bleed ; then wet it thoroughly with the copperas water, once 
daily. 

This, followed for four weeks, cured a man residing 
within four miles of this city, who had six or eight of them, 
some of them on the head as large as a hen's egg. Tlie 
l>reparation is also valuable, as a wash, in erysipelas. 

BLEEDINGS — Internal and External — Stypcto 
Balsam — For internal hemorrhage, or bleeding from the 
lungs, stomach, nose, and in excessive menstruation or 
bleeding from the womb, is made as follows : 

Put sulphuric acid 2^^ drs. by weight, in a Wedgewood mortar 
and slowly add oi2 of turpentine 1 fluid dr., stirring it constantly 
with the pestle , then add slowly again, alcohol 1 fluid dr., ano 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT 193 

lOontinue to stir as long as any fumes arise from the miiture, 
thi>n bottle in glass, ground stoppered, bottles. It should be a 
cle«»r red color, like dark blood, but if made of poor materials 
n xlll be a pale, dirty red, and unfit for use. Dosk — To be 
given by putting 40 drops into a tea-cup and rubbing it thorough- 
ly witn a tea-spoon of brown sugar, and then stir iu water until 
the cup tb nearly full, and drink immediately — repeat every hour 
for 3 or 4 iiours, but its use should be discontinued as soon as no 
more fresh blood appears. Age does not injure it, but a skim 
forms on the top which is to be broken through, using the medi- 
cine below i\. 

This preparation was used for thirty years, with uniform 
duccess, by In-. Jas. Warren, before he gave it to the pub- 
lic ; since then, Dr. King, of Cincinnati, author of the Ec- 
clectic Dispensatory, has spread it, through that work, and 
many lives have been saved by it. It acts by lessening the 
force of the circulation (sedative power,) as also by its as- 
tringent effects in contact with the bleeding vessels. And 
the probability is that no known remedy can be as safely 
depended upon for more speedy relief, or certainty of cure, 
especially for the lungs, stomach, or nose ; but for bleedings 
from the womb, or excessive menstruation, I feel to give 
preference to Prof. Piatt's treatment as shown in the recipe 
for " Uterine Hemorrhages." No relaxation from business 
ueed be required, unless the loss of blood makes it neces- 
sary, nor other treatment, except if blood has been swal- 
lowed, or if the bleeding is from the stomach, it would be 
well to give a mild cathartic. Bleeding f»-om the stomach 
will be distinguished from bleeding from the lungs by a 
sense of weight, or pain, and unaccompanied by cough, and 
discharged by vomiting, and iu larger quantities at a time 
than from the lungs. The blood will be darker also, and 
often mixed with particles of food. 

Exercise in the open air is preferable to inactivity ; and 
if any symptoms of returning hemorrhage show themselves, 
oegin with the remedy without loss of time, and a reasoa- 
able hope of cure may be expected. 

8. External STVPTic Remedies. — Take a glazed earthcm 
vessel that will stand heat and put into it water 2^ pts. ; tincture 
af benzoin 2 ozs. ; alum J lb., and boil for 6 hours, replacing the 
water which evaporates iu boiling, by pouring in boiling water 
ao as not to stop the boiling process, constantly stirring. At the 
end of the 6 hours it is to be filtered or carefully strained and 
bottled, also in glass stoppered bottles. Apflication — Wet lint 



194 DR. chase's ttECiris. 

and lay upon the wound, binding -with bandages tn prevent the 
thickened blood (coagula) from being removed from the mouths 
of the vessels, keeping them in place for 24 to 48 hours •will be 
■ufflcient. 

If any doubt is felt about this remedy, pour a few dropf 
of it into a vessel containing human blood — the larger the 
quantity of the styptic, the thicker will be the blood mas3, 
until it becomes black and thick. Pagliari was the first to 
introduce this preparation to public notice. — Eclectic Di^ 
pensatory. 

3. Styptic Tincture — Extehnal Application. — Best bran- 
dy 3 ozs. ; finely scraped Castile soap 2 drs. ; potash 1 dr. ; mix 
all, and shake well when applied. Apply warm by putting lint 
up'ju the cut, wet with the mixture. 

I have never had occasion to try either of the prepara- 
tions, but if I do, it will be the " Balsam," or " External 
Styptic" first, and if they should fail I would try the " Tinc- 
ture," for I feel that it must stop blood, but I also am cer- 
tain that it would make a sore, aside from the cut ; yet, 
better have a sore than lose life, of course. These reraediea 
ire such, that a physician might pass a lifetime without oc- 
sasion to use, but none the less important to know. 

BRONCEOCEI.E— Enlauged Neck— To Curb.— Iodide of 
potassium (often called hydriodateofpotash,)2 drs. ; iodine 1 dr. ; 
water 2 \ ozs. ; mix and shake a few minutes and pour a little 
into a vial for internal use. Dose — Five to 10 dr(5ps before each 
meal, to be talcen in a little water. External Application. — 
"With a feadier wet the enlarged neck, from the other bottle, 
night and morning, until well. 

It will cause the scarf skin to peel oflF several times bo- 
fore the cure is perlect, leaving it tender, but do not omit 
the application more than one day at most, and you may 
rest assured of a cure, if a cure can be performed by any 
means whatever ; many cures have been performed by it, 
and there is no medicine yet discovered which has proved 
one-hundreth part as successful. 

2. But if you are willing to be longer in performing the cu'-*, 
to avoid the soreness, dissolve the same articles in alcohol 1 pt,, 
and use the same way, as above described, {i. e.) both internal 
and external. 

PAIN KILLER— Said to bk Pebry Davis'.— Alcohol 1 qL ; 
gum guaiac 1 oz. ; gums myrrh and camphor, and cayenne pi;l- 
verized, of each J oz. Mix. Shake occasionally for a week oe 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 195 

10 days and filter or let settle for use. Apply freely to surface 
pains, or it may be taken iu tea-spoon doses for internal pains, 
and repeat according to necessities. 

If any one can tell it from its namesake, by its looks or 
actions, we will then acknowledge that the old minister, from 
whom it was obtained, was greatly deceived, although ha 
was perfectly familiar for a long time with Mr. Davis, and 
his mode of preparing the pain-killer. 

POISONS — Antidote. — ^When it becomes known that a p<»- 
jtwi has been swallowed, stir salt and gi-ound mustard, of each 
a, heaping tea-spoon, into a glass of water, and have it drank 
immediately. It is the quickest emetic known. 

It should vomit in one minute. Then give the whites of 
two or three eggs in a cup or two of the strongest coffee. 
If no coffee, swallow the egg in sweet-cream, and if no 
cream sweet-milk, if neither, down with the egg. 

I have used the mustard, with success, in the case of 
my own child, which had swallowed a " Quarter " beyond 
the reach of the finger, but remaining in the throat, which, 
to all appearances, would have soon suffocated him. I first 
took " granny's plan" of turning the head down and patting 
on the back j failing in this, I mixed a heaping tea-spoon 
of mustard in sufficient water to admit its being swallowed 
readily ; and in a minute we had the quarter, dinner, and 
all ; without it, we should have had no child. 

1 knew the mustard to work well once upon about twenty 
metk in a boat-yard, on Beile River, Newport, Mich. 1 
had been furnishing them with " Switchel" at twenty 
cents per bucket, made by putting about a pound of sugar, 
a quart of vinegar, and two or three table-spoons of ginger 
to the bucket of water, with a lump of ice. An old man, 
also in the grocery business, offered to give it to them at 
eighteen pence per bucket, but, by some mistake, he put in 
mustard instead of gmger. They had a general vomit, 
which maoft them think that Cholera had come with tba 
horrors of " Thirty-Two," but as the downward effects were 
not experienced, it passed off with great amusement, safely 
establishing my custom at the twenty cents per bucket. 

INFLAMMATOllY DISEASES— Description.— Be- 
fore I attempt to speak of the inflammation of particular 
organs, I shall make a few remarks upon the subject in gen 



196 liB. chase's recipes. 

eral,'whicli will throw* out the necessary light for those not 
already informed ; and I should be glad to extend my treat- 
ment to all of the particular organs of the body, but the 
limits of the work only allows me to speak of Pleurisy, In- 
flammation of the Lungs, &c. j yet, Eclectic ideas of inflam- 
mation are such, that if wc can, successfully, treat inflam- 
mation in one part of the system, (body,) we can, with but 
little modification, succeed with it in all of its forms : And 
my general remarks shall be of such a nature as to enabk 
any judicious person to, successfully, combat with inflamma- 
tions in every part of the system. Then : 

First. — Inflammation is, generally, attended with pain^ 
increased heat, redness, ar d swelling. Some, or all of these 
signs alwai/s accompanyii g it, according to the stmciure of 
the organ afiected. 

Second. — The more loose the structure of the organ, 
the less severe will be the pain ; and the character of the 
structure also modifies the character of the pain. In mucau$ 
membranes, it is burning or stinging. In serous membranw 
it is lancinating, and most usually very sharp and cutting 
In fibrous structures, it is dull, aching, and gnawing. In 
nervous structures, it is quick, jumping, and most Tisuaily 
excruciatingly severe ; and in nearly all structures more (^ 
less soreness is soon present. 

Third. — To make the foregoing information of value, 
it becomes necessary to know the structure of the various 
parts of the system. Although the ultimate portions of 
muscle or flesh, as usually called, is fibrous, yet, there is a 
loose cellular structure blended with it, which fills up afld 
rounds the form to its graceful beauty — hence, here, w« 
have more swelling, and less severity of pain. With tha 
rose, or red of the lips, commences the mucous membrane, 
which forms the lining coat of the mouth, stomach, &c., 
through the whole alimentary canal, also lining the urethra, 
bladder, uret^.rs, vagina, womb, fallopian tubes, &c., hence 
the heat always felt in inflammation of these organs The 
whole internal surface of the cavity of the body is lined by 
a scrolls membrane, which is also reflected or folded upoa 
the lungs— here called pleura, (the side,) hence pleurisy, 
(inflammation of the pleura or side,) and also folded upon 



M£DICAL DEPABTMBNT. 197< 

feie upper side of the diaphragm j the diaphragm forming 
a partition between the upper and lower portions of the cav- 
ity of the body, the uppxjr portion containing the lungs, 
teart, large blood vessels, &c., called the chest, more com- 
monly the breast — the lower portion containing the stomach, 
liver, kidneys, intestines, bladder, &c., called the abdomt<i 
— more commonly the bowels. The sides of the abdomen 
are covered with a continuation of this serous membrane, 
which is also reflected upon the lower side of the diaphragm, 
liver, stomach, small and large intestines, bladder, &c., — 
here called peritoneum, (to extend around) in all places it 
secretes (furnishes) a moistening fluid enabling one organ 
of the body to move upon itself or other organs without 
friction. This serous membrane is thin, but very firm, 
hence the sharpness of the pain when it is inflamed, as it 
cannot yield to the pressure of the accumulating blood. 

Fourth.- -The ligaments or bands which bind the dif- 
ferent parts of the body together at the joints, and the 
gracefully contracted ends of the muscles (called tendons) 
which pass the joint, attaching themselves to the next bone 
above, or below, and the wristlet-like bands which are 
clasped around the joints through which these tendons play, 
as over a puUy, when the joint is bent, are all of a fibrous 
construction, hence the grinding or gnawing pains of rheu- 
matism (inflammations), and injuries of, or near joints; and 
it also accounts for that kind of pain in the latter stages of 
intestmal inflammations, as the stomach, intestines, &c., are 
composed of three coats, the external, serous, — middle 
fibrous, internjil, mucous; and when inflammation of the 
external, or internal ; coats are long continued, it generally 
involves the middle — fibrous layer. 

Fifth. — Thrs greatest portion of the substance of the 
lungs is of fibrous tissue, consequently, dull or obtuse pain 
only, is experienced when inflamed. 

Lastly. — The nervous system, although of a fihrout 
character is so indescribably fine in its structure, that, like 
the telegraph wire, as soon as touched, it answers with a 
bound, to the <;all — quick as thought, whether pain or pleas- 
are, jimiping, bounding, it goes to the grand citadel (the 
brain) which overlooks the welfare of the whole temple. 



198 DR, chase's recipes. 

In general, the intensity of the pain attending inflamma- 
tions will surely indicate the violence of the febrile (sympa- 
thetic) reaction ; for instance, in inflammation of the bron- 
chial tubes, the pain is not very severe, consequently not 
much fever, (reaction) ; but in inflammation of the pleura 
(pleurisy) the pain is very severe, conse quently the febrilo 
reaction exceedingly great. 

Causes of Inflammation. — In health, the blood 
carried evenly, in proportion to the size of the blood vessels, 
to every part of the body. And the vessels (arteries and 
veins) are proportioned in size to the necessity of the sys- 
tem for vitality, nutrition, and reparation. AVhatever it may 
be that causes the blood to recede from the surface, or any 
considerable portion of it, will cause inflammation of the 
weakest portion of the system ; and whatever will draw the 
blood unduly to any part of the system, will cause inflamma- 
tion of that part, — for instance, cold drives the blood from 
the surface, consequently, if sufliciently long continued, the 
internal organ least able to bear the accumulation of blood 
upon it will be excited to inflammation — a blow upon any 
part, if sufliciently severe, will cause inflammation of the 
injured part. Also mustard poultices, drafts to the feet, &c., 
hence the propriety of their proper use to draw the blood 
away from internal organs which are inflamed. A check of 
perspiration is, especially, liable to excite inflammation, and 
that in proportion to the degree of heat producing the per- 
spiration and the length of time which the person may bo 
exposed to the cold. The objeet of knowing the cause of 
disease is to avoid sufiering from disease, by keeping clear 
of its cause ; or thereby to know what remedy to apply foi 
itB cure or relief. 

There is a class of persons who claim that ca«ses will have 
bheir legitimate effects, ph/siccd or moral ; physicians know 
that it is absurd physically ; that is, when philosophically 
and scientifically combated with, — for instance, a person is 
exposed to cold ; the blood is driven in upon the internal 
organs, and the one which is the least able to bear the pres- 
sure gives way before the invading enemy, and an inflamma- 
tion is the result J which, if left to itself, will terminate in 
'leath J but heat and moisture are applied to the constringed 
irface — the blood is brought bacw and "held there, and « 



MEDIOAL DEPARTMENT 199 

cure is speedily effected — the natural or physical tffect of 
the cause is obviated or avoided. 

Then why should it be thought impossible with Xjod that 
a moral remedy should be provided against moral evils ? 
Thanks be to God, it has been provided to the willing and 
obedient, through our Lord Jesus Christ, but only to the 
willing and obedient, morally as well as physically, for if a 
person will not permit a proper course to be pursued to over- 
come tne consequences arising to his body from cold, he 
must suffer, not only the inflammation to go on, but also 
guilt ol mind for neglecting his known duty. The same is 
true in either point of view, only it looks so curious that 
there should be those who can reason of physical things, 
but utterly refuse to give up their moral blindness ; the con- 
V3quences be upou their own heads. 

Just in proportion to the susceptibility of an organ to tak« 
oa diseased action, is the danger of exposure ; for example 
if a person has had a previous attack of pleurisy, or inflam- 
mation of the lungs, those organs, or the one which has been 
v^iseased, will be almost certain to be again prostrated, usu- 
ally called relapse ; which is in most cases, ten times more 
severe than the first attack ; then be very careful about ex- 
posures when just getting better from these, or other disease. 

Inflammation terminates by resohition, effiision, s^ippura- 
tion, or mortification. By resolution, is meant that the parts 
return to their natural condition ; by effusion, that blood 
may be thrown out from the soft parts, or from mucous 
membranes, — that lymph, or serum, a colorless part of the 
blood may be thrown out by seraus membranes, which often 
form adhesions, preventing the after motions of the affected 
parts — and here what wisdom is brought to light, in the 
fact that whatever is thrown out from the mucus surface 
never, or at least very seldom adhere, or grow up ; if it did, 
anj part of the alimentary canal from the mouth to the stom- 
ach, and so on through the intestines, would be constantly 
adhering ; so,also of the lungs ', for these various organs are 
more frequently affected by inflammations than any other 
parts of the body — by suppuration, when abscesses are formed 
containing pus (matter,) or this may take place upon the 
surface, when it is usually called canker, or corroding ulcers, 
cancers, &c. ; by gangrene, (mortification,) when death of 



200 DB chase's recipes. 

the parte take place ; in this case, if the part is sufflcicntlj 
extensive, or if it is an internal part, death of the whole 
body, if not relieved, is the result. 

The methods of inflammatory termination is believed to 
result from the grade of inflammation — for instance, at the 
circumference of a boil, the inflammation is weak, serum is 
thrown out ; near the centre, where the inflammation i" a 
little higher, lymph is poured out and adhesion takes place ; 
— next pus — at the centre, viortifiction and consequent 
sloughing takes place. 

In boils, the tendency is to suppuration ; in carbuncles, the 
tendency is to mortification; but in rheumatism, mumps, 
&c,, there is a strong tendency to resolution ; and it is often 
very difficult to avoid these natural terminations. 

The five different tissues of the body also modify the in- 
flammation according to the tissue inflamed, viz : the cellular 
(fleshy) tissue, is characterized by great swelling, throbbing 
pain, and by its suppurating in cavities — not spreading all 
over that tissue. Inflammation of the serous tissue, has 
sharp lancinating pain, scarcely any swelling, but much 
reaction (fever), throws out lymph, and is very liable to 
form adhesion — not likely to terminate in mortification, ex- 
cept in peritonitis (inflammation of the lining membrane of 
the abdominal cavity), which sometimes terminates thus in 
a few hours, showing the necessity of immediate action. 
Inflammation of the mucous tissue, is characteriz(jd by 
burning heat , or stinging pain (hence the heat of the stom- 
ach, bowels, &c.) — without swelling, not much febrile re« 
action, and never terminates in resolution (health) without 
a copious discharge of muciLS, as from the nose and lungs, 
m colds, catarrhs, coughs, <fec. Inflammation of the dermoid 
(skin) tissue, as in erysipelas, is characterized by burning 
pain — spreads irregularly over the suaface, forming blistera 
containing a yellowish serum, but never forms adhesions, 
nor suppurates in cavities, but upon the surface. Inflamma- 
tion of the fibrous tissue, or rheumatic inflammation, ia 
characterized by severe aching or gnawing pain — is not 
liable to terminate in suppuration nor mortification — nearly 
always throwing out a gelatinous serum, often causing stifle 
joints, or deppsiting earthy matter, as in gout — is peculiarly 
Hable to change its place, being very dangerous i/ it change 



mkdiojll department. 201 

« any of the vital organs, as the brain, heart, stomach, &c., 
a a in the acute form the febrile reaction is usually quite 
severe. Internal inflammation will be known by the con- 
stant pain of the inflamed part, by the presence of fever, 
which does not generally attend a spasmodic or nervous 
pain, and by the position chosen by the patient, to avoid 
pressuie upon the afilicted organs. 

Inflammation is known under two heads, acute and chnmic 
The first is generally rapid and violent in its course and 
characteristics. The laet is usually the result of the first, 
— ^is more slow and less dangerous in its consequences. 

Treatment. — Sound philosophy (Eclecticism) teaches, 
that if cold has driven the blood (consequently the heat) 
fiom tL« surface, heat will draw it back; and thus relieve 
the internal engorgements (over-full organs) and if held 
there, suficiently long, entirely cure the difficulty (inflam- 
mation) , upon the same ground, if a person is cold, warm 
him ; if wet and cold, warm and dry him ; if hot, cool him ; 
if dry and hot, wet and cool him — equalize the circulation 
and pain or disease cannot exist. 

The foregoing remarks must suflice for general directions j 
but the following special application to pZewmy and inflam- 
mation of the lungs shall be sufflcienlly explicit to enable 
all to make their general applications. 

2. Pleurisy. — Pleurisy is an inflammation of the seroui 
tbembrane inveloping (covering) the lungs, which is also re- 
flected (folded) upon the parieties (sides or walls) of the 
chest, (but I trust all will make themselves familiar with 
the description of " Inflammation in General," before they 
proceed with the study of pleurisy,) attended with sharp 
lancinating pain in the side, diflScult breathing, fever, with 
a quick, full, and hard pulse, usually commencing with a 
chill. Jn many cases the inflammation, consequently the 
pain, is confined to one point, most commonly about 
the short ribs ; but often gradually extends towards the 
shoulder and forward part of the breast ; the pain increas- 
ing, and often becoming veiy violent. It may not, but 
usually, is attended with cough, and the expectoration ia 
seldom mixed with blood, or very fr^'e, but rather of a glairy 
or mucous character. As the disease advances, the pain'ia 
compared to a stab with a sharp instrument, full breathing 



202 DB. chase's recipes 

not being indulged, from its increasing the difficulty ; the 
cough also aggravates the pain; great prostration of strength, 
the countenance expressing awxiety and suffering. The 
breathing is short, hurried, and catching, to avoid increase 
of pain J in some cases, the cough is only sligltt. It may 
be complicated with inflammation of the lungs, or bronchial 
tubes, and if so complicated, the expectoration will b* 
mixed or streaked with blood. Y^et it makes but very little 
difference, as the treatment is nearly the same — with th» 
exception of expectorants, quite the same; although ex- 
pectorants are not amiss in pleurisy, but absolutely neces 
sary in inflammation of the lungs. Even Mackintosh, of 
the " Kegulars," says : " It must be recollected that pneu- 
monia " (iuflammation of the lungs) " and pleuritis " (pleu- 
risy) " Frequently co-exist " (exist together); " But neither 
is that circumstance of much consequence, being both 
inflammatory diseases, and requiring the same genera* 
remedies." But there I stop with hijn, for I cannot go tho 
bleeding, calomel, and antimony. I have quoted his words 
to satisfy the people that the " RegUiars " acknowledge the 
necessity of a similar treatment in all inflammatory diseases, 
the difference between the two branches of the profession, 
existing only in the remedies \ised. i 

Causes op Pleurisy. — Cold, long applied, constrinpes 
(makes smaller) the capillaries (hair-like blood-vessels) 
which cover as a net-work the whole surface, impairing- the 
circulation, driving the blood internally, causing congestion 
(an unnatural accumulation of blood) upon the pleura, lience 
pleurisy. Exposures to rains, especially cold rainis, cold, 
wet feet, recession (striking in) of measles, gcarler. /ever, 
rheumatism, &c., often cause inflammation of ttau char- 
acter. 

Indications. — Relax the whole surface, whioii removes 
the obstructions — restore, and maintain, an equal oirculation, 
and the work is accomplished. The temperftttire of the 
surface and extremities is much diminished, enowing tnat 
the blood has receded (gone) to the internal, diseased, or- 
gans, the temperature of which is much incrcsused ; for with 
the blood goes the vitality (heat) of the body. This condi- 
tion of the system clearly indicates the treatment, viz : the 
application of heat to the surface in stich a way as to b« 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 203 

%lle to keep it there until nature is again capable of carry* 
mg on her own work, in her own way. 

TREATifENT. — It has been found that the quickest and least 
troublesome way in which heat could be applied to the whole 
surface, is by means of burning alcohol, formerly called a "Rum 
sweat," because rum was stronger than at present, and more 
pl«nty than alcohol ; but now alcohol is the most plenty, and 
much the strongest and cheapest. It should alw^ays be in the 
house (the 98 per cent.) ready for use . as described under the 
head of " Sweating with Burning Alcohol," (which see), or if it 
is day time, and fires are burning, you can give the vapor-bath- 
sweat, by placing a pan, half or two-thirds full of hot water, 
under the chair, having a comforter around you ; then putting 
into it occasionally a hot stone or brick, until a free perspiration 
is i)roduced and held for from 15 to 30 minutes, according to the 
severity of the case ; and if this is commenced as soon as the 
attack is fairly settled upon the patient, in not more than one 
case out of ten will it be necessary to do anything more ; but if 
fairly established, or if of a day or two's standing, then, at the 
same time you are administering the sweat, place the patient's 
feet in water as hot as it can be borne ; have also a strong tea 
made of equal parts of pleurisy-root and catnip, (this root is also 
called white root — Doctors call it asclepias tuberosa)— into a 
mucer of this hot tea put 2 tea-spoons of the " Sweating Drops," 
irinking all at one time, repeating the dose every hour for 5 or 
'i hours, using only 1 tea-spoon of the drops at other times, ex- 
;ept the first, giving the tea freely once or tw^ce between doses. 
A.S soon as the sweating is over, place the patient comfortably 
m bed so as to keep up the perspiration from 6 to 12 hours, or 
antil the pain and uneasiness yield to the treatment. If neces- 
sary, after the patient takes the bed, ])lace bottles of hot water 
to I he feet and along the sides, or hot bricks, or stones wrapped 
with flannel wet with vinegar, to help keep up the perspiration; 
Muhtard may also be placed over the seat of pain, and upon the 
Feet also rubbing the arms and legs with dry flannel, which very 
mu( h aids the process when the attack is severe. If the pain 
ymknues severe, and perspiration is hard to maintain, steep cay- 
enne, or common red peppers in spirits and rub the whole sur- 
face with it, well and long, and I will assure the blood to come 
out soon and see what is going on externally. Keep the patient 
well covered all the time, and avoid drafts of cold air. As tha 
painful symptoms begin to subside, the doses of medicine may 
be lessened, and the time between doses lengthened, until tha 
disease is fairly under control ; then administer a dose of tha 
"Ve[retable Physic," or some other cathartic, if preferred, or if 
that is not at hand, this course may be repeated or modified to 
meet returning or changing symptoms. 

Wetting .he surface daily, with alcohol and water, equal pai'ts, 
will be found an excellent assistant in treating, any diseafaC, es- 
pecially, internal iiiflmmatious, as Pleurisy, Inflammation of the 
Lunge, Conauicpl<;n, Bronchi ts, &c., &c. 



204 DE. chask's recipm. 

The pleurisy root is almost a specific m pleurisy or in 
flammatlon of the lungs; no other known root or herb u 
equal to it for producing and keeping up perspiration (dmg- 
gists usually keep it,) but if it cannot be got, pennyroyal, 
eage, &c., or one of the minta, must be used in its j>«ace. 
The only objection to the foregoing treatment is tl«i«, tiH» 
Doctors say : 

Ueigh ! I guess he wasn't very giok ; 
For see ! he's round in " double quick" ; 
But alopath holds 'em for weeks, six or seven, 
Whea bleeding, calomel, and antimony are given. 

To illustrate : I awoke one night with severe paj» in tho 
left side (I had heen exposed to cold during the aJTiemoon,) 
could not move or draw a full breath without very much 
increasing the difficulty; the night was cold and fires all 
down ; I studied my symptoms for a few minutes, and also 
reflected upon the length of time which must elapse, if I 
waited for fires to be built ; then awoke my wifb, saying do 
:\ot be frightened, I have an attack of Pleurisy ; you will 
get me a comforter, saucer, and the alcohol, and return to 
bed without disturbing any one ; with persuasion, or almost 
compulsion, she did so ; for she desired to" build a fire and 
make a more thorough work of it ; but I had made up my 
mind and resolved to carry out the experiment upon myself, 
and now had the only chance. I arose and poured the 
saucer nearly full of alcohol, and set it on fire ; wrapping 
the comforter around me, I sat down upon the chair, over 
It, and continued to sit until the alcohol was all burned out, 
Hinl I in a most profuse perspiration ; the pain and diffi- 
cult breathing having nearly all subsided ; I then returned 
to bed, the perspiration continuing for some consifi^rable 
longer, by retaining the comforter around me to avoid 
checking it as I returned to bed, during which time I ^M^ain 
fell asleep. When I awoke in the morning I could just 
realize a little pain, or rather uneasiness, upon taking a 
fall breath, but did nothing more, being very careful abont 
exposure however, through the day ; but at bed time I took 
another alcohol sweat, and that was the last of the pleurisy. 

Again : Mr. , a medical student rooming in the 

same house where I lived, awoke in the night, attacked 
with pleurisy, the same as myself, after exposure ; but aa 
he was attending the lectures of alopathic professor*. >*f 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 206 

course, he must have one of them to attend him ; one was 
ealicd, three pints of blood were taken, calomel and anti- 
mony wore freely given ; and in about three or four days 
the disease gave way to time, or the treatment ; but a calo- 
mel-Diarrhea set in, and came very near terminating his 
life, and kept him from college and his studies over six 
weeks; and he said if he was ever calomelized again, he 
would prosecute the doer to the end of his life ; uut he 
graduated in that school of medicine, and no doubt is now 
expecting to go and do the same thing. Choose ye your serv- 
ant. Shall he be reason, with common-sense rcsuils, oi 
shall he be silver-slippered fashion, with hio he&lth-dtstroy- 
ing policy? It need not oe ars'i'od thau theae woic not 
parallel cases, for I had the pleurisy when young, &Zid was 
treated in the fashionable style, and was constantly liable 
to, and had frequent attacks of it during my earlier life. 

In chronic cases, which sometimes occur, and frequently 
under other treatment, it will be necessary, not only to use 
the foregoing treatment, but to add to it an emetic about 
once a week, alternating with the sweating process, with 
much external friction, occasionally, with the pepper and 
spirits to hold the blood to the surface. 

Since the first publication of the foregoing, I have seen 
a statement going the rounds of the " Papers," that a bad 
case of burning had taken place in N. Y., by the alcohol 
process of sweating, calling it 7i€io ; but it has been in use 
more than /orti/ years ; I have used it, I speak safely, more 
than a hundred times, and never before heard of its injuring 
any one ; but still it is possible that some accident may have 
occurred in its use, or that some one has undertaken it who 
was not capable of prescribing j but if calomel could claim 
one year's use under its most accomplished prescribers with 
only one case of injury^ I would say, let it be continued , 
but in place of one, it is hundreds ; farther comment ia 
unnecessary. 

But, those who prefer, or from the absence of alcohol, or 
other necessities, can take " grandmother's plan," i. «., place 
the feet into hot water, and drink freely of pennyroyal, sage, 
or other hot teas, for fifteen to twenty minutes ; then get 
into bed, continuing the teas for a short time, remaining in 
bed for a few hours ; which, if" commenced soon aft«r the 



S09 DH. chask's RxciPia. 

attack of colds, or even more severe diseases, will, in nine 
out of ten cases, not only relieve, bat prevent days, perhaps 
weeks, of inconvenience and suffering. 

Where there are complications with the substance of the 
lungs, you will find explanations under the next head, 

3. Inflammation of the Lukgs— Is usually, by phy- 
sicians, called Pneumonia, from the Greek, Pneumon, the 
Lungs. It may involve the whole lung, on one or both sides, 
but is more generally confined to one side, and to the lower 
portion, than to the whole lung. 

Causes. — Exposure to cold, wet, cold feet, drafts of air, 
especially if in a perspiration, recession of eruptive diseases, 
&c., and consequently more liable to come on in the winter, 
or cold wet changes of spring, than at any other time; and 
upon those whose lungs are debilitated by previous attacks, 
or are predisposed to, or actuallysuffering under disease. 

Symptoms. — Inflammation of the Lungs, like other dis- 
eases of an inflammatory character, nearly always commen- 
ces with a chill, soon followed by fever, more or less violent, 
according to which, the severity of the case may be some- 
what predetermined, unless of a congestive character; in 
which case, instead of a hot and fevered surface, there will 
be a cold, clammy feel to the hand, as well as unpleasant to 
the patient. There will be difficulty in taking full breaths, 
as well as an increased number of breaths to the minute, 
which in healthy persons is generally about twenty. Dull 
pain, with a tightness of the chest, short and perpetual hack- 
mg cough, scanty expectoration, which is tough, and sticks 
to the vessel used as a spittoon, and is more or less streaked 
with blood, or more like iron-rust in color, and may have so 
much blood in it as to make it a brighter red. The pulse vi 
variable, so much so that but little confidence can be placed 
in it. The tongue soon becomes dry and dark; but a dry 
and glossy tongue, with early delirium, are considered daa- 
g<^rous symptoms, that is, under " Old School treatment." 
But with our rational treatment we very seldom have a fat:J 
termination, yet it is occasional, and really wonderful that it la 
not more frequent, when we take into account the neglect o| 
some physicians and imprudence of many patients. 



MlCDICAL DEPARTMENT. 207 

Indications. — As the blood has receded from the sur- 
f*\3e and centered upon the lungs ; the indications are to 
return it to its original vessels, by judiciously applying 
heaii and moisture, which is sure to relax their constringed 
condition, instead of cutting a hole and letting it run out 
(bleeding), which prostrates the patient and retards his 
recovery. 

lliEATMENT. — ^Thc treatment of Inflammation of the Lungs in 
recent cases, will be, at first, the same as for " Pleurisy," that is, 
to ptoduce-free perspiration — soak the feet in hot water while 
admmistering the " Alcohol Sweat," or Vapor Bath, as there di- 
rected, with the white-root tea and " Sweating Drops," for sev- 
eral hours, with bottles of hot water or hot ])ricks to the feet and 
Bides, mustard-drafts to the feet also, as they can be borne ; and 
after 6 or 8 hours, the •' Vegetable," or other cathartic should be 
administered, and great care not to expose the patient to drafts 
of ail during its oiieration, especially if in perspiration. If this 
course is faithfully persevered in, it will call the blood to the 
Burface — prevent congestion of the lungs (unnatural accumida- 
tion of blood) — lessen the fever — ease the pain and aid expecto- 
ration. But if the expectoration becomes difficult, and the dis- 
ease should not seem to yield in from 8 to 12 hours at farthest, 
or by the time the cathartic has freely operated, then, or soon 
after, give the " Eclectic," or " Lobelia-seed Emetic," as directed 
under that head ; and if called to a case wliich is already con- 
firmed, it is best to begin with the emetic, then follow up as above 
directed in recent cases. An expectorant, in confirmed (estab- 
lished) cases will be needed— let it be composed of tincture of 
lobelia 1 oz. ; tincture of ipecac i oz. ; tincture of blood-root i 
oz. ; simple syrup or molasses 2 ozs. ; mix. Dose — One tea- 
spoon every 2 hours, alternately with the white-root tea and 
" Sweating Drops," except the first dose may be 2 tea-spoons. 
The case must then be watched carefully ; and any part or all 
of the treatment may be repeated, lessened, increased, or modi- 
fied, to suit returning or remaining symptoms. 

Persons having this book in the house, and being gov- 
erned by it, having also the leading medicines on hand ; 
and commencing with this disease, or inflammation of any 
other organs, modifying the treatment by common sense, 
according to the remarks on " General Inflammation," will 
aot have to repeat the course in one case out of ten. 

In inflammations of the stomach, known by heat, accor- 
ding to the degree of the inflammation, drinks of slippery- 
elm water, or mucilage of gum arable, &c., may be freely 
taken ; and in inflammation of other organs, other modifi- 
cations will be required ; as for Dysentery, which is an in- 



208 DR. chase's eecipks. 

flamraation of the large intestines, the "Injection" must be 
freely used, as also the perspiring processes, in all cases. 

In chronic inflammation, the emetic should be given once a 
week ; and some other time during the week, the sweating 
should be gone through also, with dry frictions to the whole 
surface, by means of a coarse towel, for fifteen to twenty min- 
utes each time, twice daily ; and if the feet are habitually cold, 
wash them in cold water and wipe them dry^, at bed time, then 
rub tliem with a coasse cloth or the drj' hand until they are 
perfectly warm and comfortable ; and it may be expected that 
these long standing eases will soon yield to this raiumai 
course. » 

Female Debility and Irregularities. — ^It is a self evi- 
dent fact "that the finer the Avork, and the more complicated a 
piece of machiner}', the more liable is it to become deranged, 
or out of order ; and the more skillful must be the mechanic 
who undertakes to make any necessary repairs. 

Upon this consideration I argue that the system of the 
female is the finer and more complicated, having to perform a 
^double work, (child-bearing,) yet confined to the same or less 
dimensions than the male. And to perform this dovMe func- 
tion of sustaining her own life, and giving life to her species, 
it becomes necessary in the wisdom of God to give her such 
a peculiar formation, that between the ages of fifteen and 
forty-five, or the child-bearing period., she should have a san- 
guineous, monthly flow, called by various names, as, monthly 
periods, menstruation, menses, catamenia, courses, &c., &c. 

Why it should have been so arranged, or necessary, none 
can tell. We are left to deal with the simple fact; and it 
would be just as wise in us to say that it was not so, as to say 
there was no one \y\\o plmned it, because we cannot see and 
fully understand the reason why it is so. This flow varies in 
amount from one to three, four, or five ounces, lasting from 
three to four or five days only, when usual health is enjoyed. 
And as this book will fall into the hands of very many fami- 
lies who will have no other medical work for reference upon 
this subject, it Avill not be amiss for me to give the necessary 
instructions here, that all may be able to qualify themselves 
to meet the exigencies (demand) of all cases. A day or two 
previous to the commencement of these periods, for the first 
lime, an uneasiness often amounting to pain, in the parts, is 
felt, with sense of heaviness also in the womb — lying in the 
lower part of the abdomen. 

Some females are very nervous at these periods, others 
have a flushed face accompanied with d'zziness and headache 
sickness at the stomach, &c. In young girls these new feel- 
ings produce uneasiness, for want of knowledge as to their 
cause and result, and should lead them to seek maternal 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 209 

advice and counsel, unless they have some book of this kind 
which explains the whole matter. And it would certainly be 
advisable, in all cases, for girls to not only seek such advice 
from the mother, or lady with whom they may be living, but 
be guided by it also. And although, with many ^irls, there 
may be uneasiness in the mammae, often amountmg to real 
pain, yet, no real danger need be apprehended ; for these 
unpleasant sensations will continue, and increase in severity, 
until in healthy young females there will be what is knows as 
a "sAodf," which will afford immediate relief, not from the 
quantity of the flow, at the first few periods, tut from the 
fact that the organs peculiar to the female have accomplished 
their mj-sterious work. Ordinarily these periods begin at 
about fifteen years of age, some earlier or later even as much 
as a year and sometimes more. With girls wlio take an 
active part fc the labors of the house, freely romping, play- 
ing, &c., their health and strength becoming fully developed 
thereby, these periods come on a little earlier, and are more 
healthy and regular. 

Allow me here to give a word of caution about taking cold 
at this period. It is very dangerous. I knew a young girl, 
who had not been instructed by her mother upon this subject, 
to be so afraid of being found witli this show upon her 
apparel which she did not know the meaning of, that she 
went to a brook and washed herself and clothes — took cold, 
and immediately became insane — remaining so as long as I 
knew her. Any mother who so neglects her duty to her 
child, in not explaining these things, nor by putting a work of 
this kind into her hands, runs the risk of injury to her daugh- 
ter that may never be remedied, even with the best treatment, 
after the harm is done. 

After this flow takes place, the unpleasant feelings usually 
subside, and the health again becomes good for the month, 
when all of the foregoing sensations recur again, with a 
larger flow and longer continued, recurring every four weeks, 
and is then called menses «&c., &c. 

This function of the female system, from the fineness and 
complication of the structures, is very liable to become 
deranged in various ways. 

It may be partially suppressed or entirely stopped, called, 
amerwrrliea, — it may become painful or imperfect, dysmenor- 
rlisa, — it may be very free or excessive, menorrlMgia, (like 
hemorrhage, for the treatment of which see recipe for Uterine 
Hemorrhage in another part of the book), — or, it may be 
irregular in its recurrence and duration, or a continual glairy 
flow which indicates an inflammation of the parts, leiwarrhea. 

But as this monthly flow is absolutely necessary to health, 
between these periods of life, say ff teen to forty-Jive — it^ oup- 



210 CB. CUA8X S BBCIPES. 

presslon,— painfulness — excessiveness, or irregularity, will 
soon produce general debility. 

Causes. — The female organism is such that what affects tho 
general system of the male, much more frequently affects the 
organs peculiar to her system only. No reason can be given 
for it except the wisdom of the Creator, and the necessities of 
her construction. But this debility and irregularity are so 
interwoven together that what causes one must necessarily 
affect the other. 

In the good old grandmother-days, when girls helped with 
the work of the household, warm but loose clothing, plain 
food, good thick-soled shoes, and absence of novels, to excite 
the passions, &c., such a thing as a feeble, debilitated woman 
or girl wa^ seldom known ; but now, sedentary habits, stimu- 
lating food, every conceivable unphysiological stj^c of dress, 
paper-soled shoes, checking perspiration, excitable reading, 
repeated colds by exposure going to and from parties, thinly 
clad, standing by the gate talking with supposed friends (real 
enemies) when they ought to be bj' the fire or in bed, all tend 
to general debility ; and the real wonder is that there is not 
more debility than there is. 

Symptoms. — The very word debility, shows plainly the 
leading symptom, weakness. Slie appears pale, especially 
about the lips, nose, &c., with a bluish circle about the eyes, 
which appear rather sunken, she feels dull, languid, and 
drowsy, stomach out of order, nausea, often with fluttering 
about the heart ; the nervous system sometimes becoming so 
much involved as to bring on fits of despondency leading 
many to commit suicide. The feet and limbs frequently be- 
come swollen, restless in sleep, often craving unnatural food, 
as clay, soft stones, &c. There may also be a sensation of 
bearing down, or even falling of the womb, as it is called, 
(prolapsus uteri) which is much the most common among 
the married. The bowels are usually costive, often griping 
pains which cause much suffering. Pains in the head and 
back also ; but instead of being looked upon as unfavorable, 
they rather show that nature is trying to accomplish her 
work, and needs the assistance of rational remedies. 

It is not to be supposed that every patient will experience 
all of these symptoms, at one time, or all of tlie time ; but 
they commence as pointed out, and if allowed to go on with- 
out proper correction, they will increase in severity until they 
may be all experienced in a greater or less degree. 

Indications. — The symptoms indicate (point out) the treat- 
ment, that is, if there is debility, tonics are required ; paleness 
shows that the blood has become deficient iu iron ; and the 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 211 

softness of the flesh indicates that a more nutritious diet 13 
needed. The dullness and drowsy languidness indicate the 
necessity of out-door, active exercise. Travel, or, agreeable 
home company, to ramble over hill and dale, resting as often 
and as lomr as may be necessary, not to tire, but sufficient to 
create an appetite and aid digestion — using, once a week, any 
gentle cathartic to move the bowels once or twice only at 
each time, with the " I'otiie Wi?ie Tincture" given in another 
part of this work, or the iron and ginger^ given bolow, as 
deemed best or most convenient to obtain. 

In cases of inf/xmmation of these organs, known by a glairy 
flow, cooling and astringent injections are called for, both as an 
act of cleanliness, as also of cure. In cases where the womb has 
fallen — settled low in the pelvis — tlie necessity is shown for a 
pessary support, until the general treatment relieves the dif- 
ficulty. Costiveness, points out laxatives, whilst nature's ef- 
forts, shown by pains in the head, back, &c., call for the whole 
general remedies above pointed out ; and which shall be a lit- 
tle more particularized in the following: 

Treatment. — For the weakness and general debility of the 
patient, let the "Tonic Wine Tincture"^' be freely taken in 
connection with iron to strengthen and invigorate the system ; 
beth-root, (often called birth-root, Indian balm, ground Illy, 
&c.,) the root, is the part used, Solomon's seal and columbo, 
spikenard, comfrey, gentian, the roots, with camomile flowers, 
of each 1 oz. ; with a little white-oak bark, may be added to 
the wine tincture to adapt it to these particular cases, taking 
a wine-glass, if it can be borne, from 3 to 5 times daily. Do- 
mestic wine can be used in place of the Port, in making the 
tonic wine tincture. 

1. A very good way to take iron, is to go to a blacksmith 
and have him take a piece of nail-rod, a foot or two in length, 
and heat it, letting it cool in the cinders of the forge, which 
softens it; then have him file it all up for you, saving the 
filings on a piece of paper, with which filings, mix as much 
ground ginger, rubbing them thoroughly together. Dose — 
Half of a tea-spoon three times daily, in a little honey or mo • 
lasses. The natural action of the iron upon the system will 
be to make the stools dark, or nearly black, so do not be fear- 
ful about that condition ; for, without it, we should not be 
sure of the desired action of the iron. Let the use of the iron 
be kept up for two or three months at least, or until health is 
obtained. 

In places where it may be difficult to get the iron filings, 
given in No. 1., the sweet liquor of the protoxide of iron, kept 
by druggists, the technical name ofwhichisZi*/. Ferri Protox- 
idi Dulc, may be used in place of that, a dose of which will 



DK. CHASSIS hecitks. 

oe about one teaspoon 3 times daily, just after meala. I have 
prescribed this preparation with very great success, contin- 
uing its use, in one very bad case, nearly a year. 

With the above treatment, let there be a warm bath taken, 
once a week, putting into the water a quart or two of weak- 
lye, made by putting a fire-shovel or two of wood ashes into 
the water and stirring up well, and let stand a while, then 
pour off into the bathing water. Castile-soap w^ill do about 
as well, but common soap is not as good. Wash well, and 
wipe off the water from the body, then with a dry coarse tow- 
el, have some one to rub the whole body and limbs briskly 
unti the surface glows with warmth and comfort. 

For diet, moderate quantities of broiled pork, broiled beef, 
baked beef or mutton, wild game «&c., baked or broiled, with 
bread baked, at least, the day before, roast or baked potatoes, 
with but little butter, unless very nice, or just made, then, not 
very freely. This treatment, and diet, will soon overcome 
the softness of the flesh, and give strength for the necessary 
exercise, which will remove the dullness and drowsy, languid 
feelings. The exercise may be labor about the house, but 
better to be out of doors, as gardening, romping, swinging, 
singing and riding, or running, when it can be borne, witli 
agreeable company, travel, &c. The following pill will be 
found a gentle and excellent cathartic, or laxative : 

2. Female Laxative Pill. — Aloes, macrotin, and cream 
of tartar, of each 2 drs. ; podophylin and ground ginger, 1 dr, 
each ; make into common sized pills by using oil of pepper- 
mint 15 to 20 drops and thick solution of gum Arabic mucil- 
age. Dose— One pill at bed time, or two if found necessary, 
and sufficiently often to keep the bowels just in a solvent con- 
dition, but not less often than once a week. 

If the aloes should not agree with any, they may use the 
following: 

3. Female Laxative and Anodyne Fill. — Macrotin 
and rhubarb, of each 10 grs. ; extract of hyoscyamus, 10 grs ; 
Castile-soap, 40 grs. ; scrape the soap and mix well together, 
forming into common sized pills with gum solution as in the 
above recipe. Dose — One pill, as the other, or suflicicntly 
often to keep the bowels solvent, but not too loose. The hy- 
oscyamus tends to quiet the nerves without constipating the 
bowels. 

Some females are always troubled with pains, to a greater 
or less degree, in the commencement of these periods, and 
some through the whole period. The following pill will be 
found very soothing and quieting to the nervous system of all 
such persons. 



MKBICAL BBPARTMEKT. 213 

4. Pill for Painful IVJenstruatiox — Anodysk — Ex- 
tract of stramonium and sulphate of quinine, of each 16 grs. ; 
macrotia * 8 grs. ; morphine, 1 gr, ; make into 8 pills. Dose 
— One pill, repeating once or twice only. 40 minutes to an 
hour apart, if the pain does not subside. If tlie pain subsides, 
there is no need of repeating the dose. The advantage of this 
pill is that costiveness is not increased, and pain miist subside 
under its use. 

5. Tea — Injection for Leucorrhea. — In cases of leucor- 
rbea which continue any length of time, the following decoc- 
tion, will be found very valuable as an injection : 

The inner bark of the common hemlock tree, and the leaves 
and bark of the witch-hazel, sometimes called spotted-alder, 
an ounce of each, will make a quart of the decoction, a little 
of which, with a female syringe, should be injected, morning 
and evening, wliile in a recumbent position. 

If the case does not yield to the above in a few days then 
use a little of the following, in the same way : 

6. lN,rECTioN for Leucorrhea. — White vitriol and 
sugar of lead, of each 10 grs. ; common salt, loaf sugar 

and pulverized alum, of each 5 grs. ; soft water, 1 pt. Sim- 
mer all over a slow fire for ten or fifteen minutes, when cool 
strain' and bottle, keeping well corked. When desired to use, 
pour out about half as much as needed and put an equal 
amount of soft water with it, and inject, as of the above. It 
may be reduced with more soft water if there should be 
sufficient inflammation to cause much uneasiness. A little 
uneasines is expected, however, and necessary. 

7. . In cases of permanent falling of the womb, a good pes- 
sary may be made of a piece of tine, firm sponge, cut to a 
proper size to admit, when damp, of being placed in the 
vngirut, to hold the womb to its place. Tlic sponge should 
have a stout piece of small cord sewed two or three times 
through its center, and left of sufficient length to aid in its 
removal, morning and evening, for the purpose of cleansing 
it, using the necessary injections, &c. After having injected 
either No. 5 or 6 of the above, as thought preferable, the 
sponge having been thoroughly washed and pressed drj% it 
will be again introduced sufficiently high to hold the womb in 
place. Remembering, however, in almost all of these cases 
of falling of the womb, that the patient will find it necessary 
to keep the bed until well, or very much relieved. 

One thing is very evident in these cases of debility; the 
blood is deficient in iron ; consequently that article should en- 

• Note.— Macrotin, Podophylin, Ac, are kept by all Eclectic Phy- 
Biciaus and should be kept by all druggists. 



214 DR. chasb's recipes. 

ter largely into any medicine intended for its relief; and in 
vnost cases the iron-filings and ginger, or the sweet liquor, will 
be found, continued for two or three months, all the medicine 
required ; and the iron must not be omitted in any case whatev- 
er. Iron is the main-spoke in these female-wheels, and very 
valuable in general debility of males as v;ell as females. 

For real hemorrhage, which may be known by the coagula- 
tion (clotting) of the blood, as the menstrual flow does not 
coagulate, see "Uterine Hemorrhage," or the "Styptic Bal- 
sam," but for profuse or long continued flowing or wasting, 
use the following : 

8. Powder for Excessive Fr.ooDiNG. — Gums kiuo and 
catechu, of each 1 dr. ; sugar of lead and alum, of each 1-2 dr. ; 
pulverize all and thoroughly mix, theii divide into 7 to 10 
grain powders. Dose — One every 2 to 3 hours until checked, 
then less often, merely to control the flow. 

If any female, into whose hands this book shall come, will 
carefully study and use the foregoing rational remarks and 
prescriptions, and is not an hundred times better pleased with 
the results than she would have been by calling half of the 
physicians of the day, I should be very much disappointed, 
and I would be sure that the remedies did not have their com- 
mon effiects, which, I feel, will not be tlie case from the great 
good they have already done, many times ; besides they save 
the delicacy of exposures, in many instances ; and they will al- 
ways save the delicacy of conversing with and explaining 
their various feelings and conditions, to one of the opposite 
sex. So highly important is this fact — that the information 
should become general — every girl, old or young, ought to be 
furnished with " Dr. Chase's Recipes," and also receive all tlie 
additional instruction that a mother's experience can give her. 



lANKER'S, SHO£, AND HARNESS MAKER'S 
DEPARTMENT. 

CX)LORS — Best Color for Boot, Shoe, akd Harness 
Edge, and Ink Which Cannot Freeze. — Alcohol 1 pt.; tinc- 
ture of iron 1^ oz.; extract of logwood 1 oz.; nutgalla, pulver- 
beed, 1 oz.; soft water i pt.; mix. Or: 

2. Take alcohol 1 pt.; extract of logwood and tincture of iron, 
of each 1 oz.; nutgalls, pulverized, 1 oz.; and sweet oil i oz.; 
mix. 

I have found shoemakers using these colors, each think- 
ing he had the best color in the world. The sweet oil is 
believed to prevent the hot iron from sticking, and to make 
a better polish. 

The first one makes a very passable ink for vrinter use, 
by carrying a quick hand to prevent it from spreading in 
the paper, from the presence of the alcohol, which, of course, 
is what prevents it from freezing, and that is the only argu- 
*nent in favor of it as an ink for writing purposes. 

8, Cheap Color for the Edge. — Soft water 1 gal.; extract 
of logwod 1 oz.; and boil them until the extract is dissolved, 
then remove from the fire and add copperas 2 ozs.; bi-chromate 
of potash and gum arable, of each i oz.; all to be pulverized. 

This makes a cheap and good color for shoe or harness 
edge, but for cobbling or for new work, upon which you do 
not wish to use the " hot kit," but finish with heel-ball, you 
will find that if, as you pour this out into the bottle to use, you 
put a table-spoon of lamp-black to each pint of ii it will 
make a blacker and nicer finish. It makes a good color for 
cheap work, but for fine work, nothing will supercede the 
first colors given. This also makes a very good ink for 
writing purposes, if kept corked to avoid evaporation, which 
makes it gummy or sticky. See also "Grain Side Blacking." 

4. Sizing for Boots and Shoes, in Treeing-out. — Take 
water 1 qt., and dissolve in it, by heat, isinglass 1 oz., adding 
more water to make up for evaporation ; when dissolved, add 
Btarch 6 oz.; extract of logwood, bees-wax, and tallow, of each 3 
oz.; and continue the heat until all is melted and well mixed. 
Kub the starch up first, by pouring on sufficient boiling water 
for tLat purpose. 

(215) 



216 DB. chase's BECIsPES 

It makes boots and shoes soft and pliable, applying i\ 
when trceing-out, and is especially nice to clean up work 
which has stood long on the shelves. 

5. Water-Proop Oil-Paste Blackinq. — Take camphene 1 
pt., and put into it all the India-rubber it will dissolve ; when 
dissolved, add currier's oil 1 pt.; tallow 6 lbs.; lamp-black 2 ozs. 
mix thoroughly by heat. 

This is a nice thing for old harness or carriage tops, aa 
well as for boots and shoes. Or you can dissolve the rubber 
in tne oil by setting them in rather a hot place for a day or 
two ; and save the expense of camphene, as that is of no 
use only as a solvent to the rubber. There are those, how- 
ever, who do not like to use the rubber, thinking it rots the 
leather ; then use the following : 

• 6. Water-Proof Paste Without Rtjbber. — Take tallow 1 
lb.; bees-wax i lb.; castor or neats-foot oil i pt.; and lamp-black 
i oz.; mix by heat. Or : 

7. Neat's-Foot Oil, brought to a proper consistenc with 
a little bees- wax and tallow ; colored with lamp-black, will be 
found proof against snow or water. 

8. Some, however, may prefer the following manner of 
preserving their boots and shoes, from a orrespondent of 
the Mechanics' Gazette ; but if they do ine boots must be 
made large, from the fact that the preparation has a ten- 
dency to shrink the leather. He says : "I have had only 
three pair of boots for the last six years, (no shoes) and I 
think I shall not require any "aiore the next six years to 
come. The reason is, that I treat them in the following 
manner : 

" I p-it 1 lb. of tallow and i pound of rosin in a pot on the fire ; 
when melted and mixed, 1 warm the boots and apply the hot 
Btuft with a painter's brush until neither the sole nor the upj)er 
will soak in any more. If it is desired that the boots should 
mimediately take a polish, dissolve 1 oz. of wax in spirits of tur- 
pentine, to which add a tea-spoon of lamp-black A day after 
the boots have been treated with the tallow and rosin, rub over 
them this wax in turpentine, but not before the fire. 

" Thus the exterior will have a coat of wax alone, and will 
ehine like a mirror. Tallow ot any other grease becomes 
rancid, and rots the stitching as well as the leather, but the 
rosin gives it that antiseptic quality which preserves the 
whole. Boots and shoes should be made so lar^c as to ad* 



LEATHER- WORKING DEPARTMENT. 217 

mit of wearing cork soles. Cork is so bad a conductor of 
heat, that with it in tlie boots, the feet are always warm on 
the coldest stone floor." 

9. Black V.\uiasn for Edge.— Take 98 per cent alcohol 1 
pt. ; shellac 3 ozs. ; rosin 2 ozs. ; pine turpentine 1 oz. ; lamp- 
black i oz. ; mix, and when the gums are all cut, it is ready to 
use ; but bear in mind that low proof alcohol will not cut guma 
properly, for any varnish. 

Tliis, applied to a boot or shoe edge, with a brush, gives 
it the shining gloss resembling much of the Eastern work. 
It is also applicable to wood or cloth requiring a gloss, after 
having been painted. 

10. Varnish for Harness, TirE Best in Use. — Take 98 per 
cent alcohol 1 gal. ; white pine turpentine l^ lbs.; gum shellar 
li lbs. ; Venice turpentine 1 gill. Let these stand in a jug ii 
the sun or hj a stove until the gums are dissolved, then add 
sweet oil 1 gill, and lamp-black 2 ozs., rub the lamp-black first 
with a little of the varnish. 

This varnish is better than the old style, from the fact 
that it's polish is as good, and it docs not crack when the 
harness is twisted or knocked about. 

If you wish a varnish for fair leather, make it as the 
above, in a clean jug, but use no lamp-black. The pine 
turpentine and sweet oil make it pliable, yet not sticky. 

TA.NNING, BLACKING, AND FINISHING.— Process fob 
Calf, Kip, and Harness, in from Six to Thirty Days. — For 
a 12 lb. calf skin, take terra-japonica 3 lbs. ; common salt 3 lbs.; 
alum 1 lb. ; put these into a copper kettle with sufficient water 
lo dissolve the whole by boiling. 

The skin, or skins, will first be limed, haired, and treated 
*n every way as for the old process ; then it will be put 
"nto a vessel with sufficient water to cover it, at which time 
you will put in one pint of the composition, stirring it well ; 
tdding the same amount each night and morning for three 
>iays, when you will add the whole , handling two or three 
ames daily all the time tanning ; you can continue to use 
the tanning liquid by adding half the quantity each time, 
of new liquor, and by keeping these proportions for any 
Amount, and if you desire to give the leather the appearance 
of bark color, you will put in one pound of Sicily sumac. 

Kip skins will require about twenty days, light horse 
^des for harness, thirty days, to make good leather, while 



218 Da. chase's B£cir£a 

calf skins will only require from six to ten days at most- 
The japonica is put up in large cakes of about one hundred 
and fifty pounds, and sells, in common times, at about foux 
cents per pound, in New York 

Byron Rose, a tanner, o'f Madison, 0., says that ono 
quart of oil of vitriol to fifty sides of leather^ with the japon- 
ica and alum, as above, leaving out the salt, will very much 
improve it ; the acid opens the pores, quickening the pro- 
cess without injury to the leather. 

2. Canadian Process. — The Canadians make fou» 
liquors in using the japonica : 

The FIRST liquor is made by dissolving, for 20 sides of upper, 
15 lbs. of terra japonica in sufficient water to cover the upper, 
being tanned. The second liquor contains the same amoimt of 
laponica, and 8 lbs. of saltpetre also. The third contains 20 
lbs. of japonica, and 4^^ lbs. of alum. The fotirth liquor con- 
tains only 15 lbs. of japonica, an^l H Jhs. of sulphuric acid; and 
the leather remains 4 days in each liquor for upper ; and for sole, 
the quantities and time ai-e both doubled. They count 50 calf 
skins in place of 20 sides of upper, but let them lie in each 
liquor only 3 days. 

3. Deer Skins — Tanning and Bitffing for Glovfs. — For 
each, skin, take a bucket of water, and put into it 1 qt. of lime ; 
let the skin or skins lay in from 3 to 4 days ; then rinse in clean 
water, hair, and grain ; then soak them in cold water to get out 
the glue ; now scour or pound in good soap suds, for half an 
hour; after which take white vitnol, alum, and salt, 1 table- 
spoon of each to a skin ; these will be dissolved in sufficient water 
to cover the skin and remain in it for 24 hours ; wring out as 
dry as convenient ; and spread on with a brush i pt. of currier's 
oil, and hang in the sun about 2 days ; after which you will 
Bcour out the oil with soap suds, and hang out again until per- 
fectly dry ; then pull and work them until they are soft ; and if 
a reasonable time does not make them soft, scour out in suds 
again as before, until complete. The oil may be saved by pour- 
ing or taking it from the top of the suds, if left standing a short 
time. The buff color is given by spreading yellow ochre evenlv 
over the surface of the skin, when finished, rubbing it in weU 
with a brush. 

The foregoing plan was pursued for a number of years by 
a brother of mine, and I have worn the gloves and know 
the value of the recipe ; but there are plans of using acid, 
and if the quantity is not too great, there is no reason in the 
Yorld why it may not be used ; the only caution necessary is 

*f see that the strength of anid dnaa. nnt. kiJl *ha nptur^ of 



LEATHEB-WORKma DEPARTMHI^T. 219 

the leather ; in proper quantities it tans only, instead of de- 
stroying the fiber. I will give a couple of the most valuable 
methods. 

4. TAOTaxa with Acid. — After having removed the hair, 
scouring, soaking, and pounding in the suds, &c., as m the last 
recipe, in place "of the white vitriol, alum, and salt, as there 
mentioned, take oil of vitriol, (sulphuric acid) and water, equal 
parts of each, and thorouglily wet the flesh-side of the skin 
with it, by means of a sponge or cloth upon a stick ; then 
foldi g up the skin, letting it lie for 20 minutes only, having 
tadyn a solution of sal soda and water, say one lb. to a bucke 
of wnter, and soak the skin or skins in that for 2 hours, whet 

frou ■^^^ll Avash in clean water and apply a little dry salt,lettinn 
le in the salt over night, or tliat length of time ; then removg 
the flesh with a blunt knife, or, if doing business on a large 
scale, by means of the regular beam and flesh-knife ; when drye 
or nearly so, soften by pulhng and rubbing with the hands, 
and also with a piece of pumice-stone. This, of course, is the 
quickest way of tanning, and by only wetting the skins with, 
the acid and soaking out in twenty minutes, they are noe 
rotted 

5. Another Method. — Oil of vitriol i oz.; salt 1 teacupof 
milk sufficient to handsomely cover the skin, not exceeding 3 
qts.; warm the milk, then add the salt and vitriol; stir the 
skin in the Kquid 40 minutes, keeping it warm ; then dry and- 
work it as directed in No. 4. 

6 Tanntng Sheep-Skins, Applicable fob Mittens 
Door-Mats, Rodes, &c. — For mats, take two long-wooled 
skins, make a strong suds, using hot water ; when it is cold 
wash the skins in it, carefully squeezing them between the 
hands to get the dirt out of the wool ; then wash the soap . 
out with clean cold water. Now dissolve" alum and salt, of 
each half a pound, with a little hot water, which put into a 
tub of cold water sufficient to cover the skins, and let them 
soak in it over night, or twelve hours, then hang over a pole 
to drain. When they are well drained, spread or stretch 
carefully on a board to dry. They need not be tacked if 
you will draw them out, several times with the hand, while 
drying. When yet a little damp, have one ounce, each, 
of saltpetre and alum, pulverized, and sprinkle on the flesh- 
side of each skin, rubbing in well ,• then lay the flesh-sides 
together and hang in the shade for two or three days, turn 
ingthe under skin uppermost every day, until perfectly dry 
Then scrape the flesh-side with a blunt knife, to remove any 
remaining scraps of flesh, tiim off projecting points, and rub 



220 DR. chase's recipeb. 

the fleoli-side with pumice or rotten stone, and with tin 
hands ; they will be very white and beautiful, suitable lot 
a foot^mat, also nice in a sleigh or wagon of a cold day. 
They also make good robes, in place of the bufi'alo, if col- 
ored, and sewed together. And lamb-skins, (or sheep-skins, 
if the wool is trimmed off evenly to about one-half or three 
fourths of an inch in length) make most beautiful and warm 
mittens for ladies, or gentlemen. 

7. Tanning Fur and Other Skins — Fifty Dollar 
Kecipe. — First, — Remove the legs and other useless parts, 
and soak the skin soft ; then remove the fleshy substances 
and soak in warm water for an hour j now : 

Take for each skin, borax, saltpetre, and glauber-salts, of each 
i oz., and dissolve or wet with soft water si&cient to allow it to 
be spread on the flesh-side of the skin. 

Put it on with a brush, thickest in the centre or thickest 
part of the skin, and double the skin together, flesh-side in, 
keeping it in a cool place for twenty-four hours, not allow 
iug it to freeze, however. 

Second, — Wash the skin clean, and then : 
Take sal-soda 1 oz. ; borax i oz. ; refined soap 2 ozs. ; (Col 
gate's white soap is recommended as the best, but our " Whit* 
Hard Soap" is the same quality, ) ; melt them slowly together, 
being careful not to allow them to boil, and apply the mixture to 
the flesh-side as at first — roll up again and keep in a wwm 
place for 24 hours. 

Third. — Wash the skin clean, as above, and have salera- 
tus two ounces, dissolved in hot rain water sufficient to well 
saturate the skin, then : 

Take alum 4 ozs. ; salt 8 ozs. ; and dissolve also in hot rain 
water ; when sufficiently cool to allow the handling of it with- 
out scalding, put in the skin for 12. hours ; then wring out Uxe 
water and hang up, for 12 hours more, to dry. Repeat this last 
soaking and drying from 2 to 4 times, according to the desired 
:oftne8s of the skin when finished. 

Lastly, — Finish by pulling, working, &c., and finally bj 
rubbing with a piece of pumice-stone and fine sand-paper. 

This works admirably on sheep-skins as well as on fur- 
skins, dog, cat, or wolf-skins ako, making a durable leathei 
well adapted to washing, 

A man in our county paid fiifly dollars for this recipe, ao^ 



LEATHER-WORKING DEPARTMENT. 221 

cas made his money out of it many times. It is very valu- 
able. 

8. Tanneng Deer akd Woodchtjck-skens for Whips, 
Strings, &c. — Prepare the sldn according to the last recipe, 
then: 

Take oil of vitriol 1 oz. ; salt 1 pt. ; milk 3 qts. ; mix. 

Now dip the skin in warm rain water having sufficient 
Baleratus in it to make it rather strong, or as in the third 
head of last recipe, and work and squeeze it well for a few 
minutes, then wring dry as convenient and put it into the 
vitriol mixture for fifty minutes, stirring all the time; now 
wring out and soak awhile ; and finally dry and work until 
Boft. 

9. Grain-side Blacking, for Ten Cents a Barrel. — Take 
a barrel and put into it quite a quantity of old iron, cast or 
wrought, then fill nearly full of soft wMer, and add 1 pt. of oil 
of vitrol ; stir it up well, and in a month or two you have just 
as good blacking for the grain-side, as could be made by using 
vinegar in place of water. 

This makes good blacking for boot, shoe, or harness edge, 
also. The acid used is so trifling that no injury will arise 
in the leather. 

Tanners will, of course, first apply the urine before ap- 
plying the blacking, saving from ten to twenty dollars 
yearly, in this way, instead of the old plan of using vine- 
gar. 

10. French Finish, for Leather. — Take a common 
wooden pail of scraps, (the legs and pates of calf-skins are 
the best) and put a handful each, of salt and pulverized 
alum amongst them and let them stand three days ; then boil 
them until you get a thick paste; in using you will warm 
it ; in the first application, put a little tallow with it, and 
for the second, a little soft soap, and use it in the regular 
way of finishing, and your leather will be soft and pliable, 
like the French calf-skin. 

I have no doubt that this would make a good preparation 
for shoemakers to use in treeing-out, leaving a soft pliable- 
ness, not otherwise obtained. 

11. French Patent Leather. — The process which ha« 
been so successfully adopted by the French artisans in glaz- 
ing leather, bo as to give it the repute for superior quality 



222 DR. chase's recipes. 

and beauty which it now universally sustains, is as follows : 

Work into the skin with appropriate tools three or four sue 
cessive coatings of drj^ing varnish, made by boiling linseed-oii 
with white-lead and litharge, in the proportion of one pound of 
each of the latter to a gallon of the former, and addiiig a por- 
tion of chalk or ochre — each coating being thoroughly dried be- 
fore thp. application of the next. Ivorjr black is then substituted 
for the chalk or ochre, the varnish thmned with spirits of tur- 
pentine, and five additional applications made in the same man- 
ner as before, except that it is put on thin and not worked in. 
The leather is rubbed down with pumice-stone, in powder, and 
then placed in a room at 90 degs., out of the way of dust. The 
last varnish is prepared by boiluig i lb. of asphaltum with 10 lbs. 
of the drying oil used in the first step of the process, and then 
stirring in 5 lbs. of copal varnish and 10 lbs. of turpentine. 

It must have a month's age before it is fit for use, bf 
order to exhibit its true characteristics. — V. S. Gazette. 



PAINTER'S DEPARTMENT. 

DRYING OILS — To Prepare for Carriage, Wagon, ajto 
Floor Patnttng. — Take linseed oil 1 gal., and add gum shellac 
8- lbs. ; litharge i lb. ; red-lead i lb. ; umber 1 oz. Boil slowly, 
2 or 3 hours, until the gums are dissolved. 

Grind your paints in this (any color) and reduce with 
turpentine. Yellow ochre is used for floor painting. This 
dries quick and wears exceedingly well. 

2. Drying Oil, Equal to the Patent Dryers. — Linseed-oil 
2 gals., and add litharge, red-lead, and umber, of each 4 ozs., and 
sugar of lead and sulpliate of zinc, of each 2 ozs. 

Boil until it will scorch a feather. Use this, or either 
of the others, in quantity to suit the object of the work 
being done. 

3. Japan Dryer op the Best Quality. — Tanc linseedoil 1 

fal., and put into it gum shellac | lb. ; litharge and burned Tur- 
ey umber, of each % lb. ; red-lead i lb., and sugar of lead 6 ozs. 
Boil in the oil until all are dissolved, which will require about 4 
hours ; remove fiom the fire, and add spirits of turpentine 1 gal.t 
and it is done. 

While in Princeton, Ind., after selling one of my bookfl 
to T. & J. T. Ewing, extensive carriage maoufacturersi of 



painter's department. 223 

that place, I obtained the foregoing recipe. It was pub- 
lished in a work printed in Columbus, 0., devoted to tha 
art of painting, From this fact, and also that the gentle- 
men from whom I obtained it, had tested it and were using 
it, T have not myself tried it, but know, from the nature 
of the articles used, that nothing better will be required. 

4. Another. — Another drj-er is made by taking linseed oil 5 
gals., and adding red-lead and litharge, of each 3^ lbs. ; raw 
umber 1^- lbs. ; sagar of lead and sulphate of zinc, of each i lb. ; 
pulverize all the articles together, and boil in the oil until dis- 
solved ; when a little cool, add turpentine, 5 gals., or to make it 
of a proper consistence. 

The gentleman of whom I obtained this recipe paid ten 
dollars for it. He was using it successfully, and said he 
used two or three drops of it to a quart of varnish also, 
and especially when the varnish did not dry readily. 

OIL — PAINT — To Reduce with Water. — Take gum shel 
lac 1 lb. ; sal-soda \ lb. ; water 3 pts. ; put all into a suitable 
kettle and boil, stirring till all is dissolved. If it does not all 
dissolve, add a little more sal-soda ; this, when cool, can be bot- 
tled for use. K it smells bad when opened it does not hm't it, 

Directions for Using. — Mix up two quarts of oil paint 
as usual, except no turpentine is to be used — any color de- 
sired. Now put one pint of the gum shellac mixture with 
the oil paint when it becomes thick, and may be reduced 
with water to a proper consistence to lay on with a brush. 
Two coats will be required, and with the second coat sand 
may be applied if desired. I used this upon a picket-fence 
with white-lead and yellow ochre for the body and a little 
lamp-black to give it a dark shade, putting on sand with 
the second coat. It is still firm and good, the work being 
done nearly four years ago.' 

The sand was applied with a tub-like box, with many 
email holes to allow the even spreading of the sand, as with 
a pepper-box. I do not regret using this kind of paint, nor 
the sanding, as it adds much to the durability of any out- 
door painting. But a better plan of sanding is represented 
in the " Painter's Sanding Apparatus " below. 

? Another Method.— Take soft water 1 gal., and dissolve 
in It, pearlash 3 ozs.: bring to a boil, and slowly add shellac \ 
lb.; when cold it is ready to be added to oil-paint, in equal pro* 
portions. The expense of these is only one-third of oil-paint 



i24 



nu. CHASfi's UECIPES. 



Some persons may think it bad policy to learn painters to 
reduce oil-paint with water, but I think every man should 
be told of the plan, who is going to have a job of work done, 
and if he makes up his mind to try apy thing of the kind, it 
is then his own business j and I am perfectly sincere in 
recommending it, for if there was any great fault in it four 
years would show it. 




painter's sanding apparatus. 

8. It is made of tin ; the tube C, enters upon the no»n<# 
of a small bellows ; the sand is put into the funnel B, which 
stands perpendicular upon the apparatus when the broad 
mouth-piece A, is held level in using. The funnel dis- 
charges the sand, just before the nozzle of the bellows ; and 
by working the bellows the sand is blown evenly 'upon the 
freshly put on paint, through the mouth-piece A, the escape 
orifice not being over the sixteenth part of an inch in 
depth, and may be made two and a half or three inches wide. 

Many persons like the plan of sanding generally, after 
painting ; but from the fact that when it is desired to renew 
the paint, brushes cannot last long upon the sand, I think it 
enly proper to sand fences or fronts, where boys* knivet 
would be too freely used. 

PAINT SKINS— To Satb and Reduce to Oeu— Dissolvfl 
4al-soda ^^ lb., in rain-water 1 gal. • 

The skins that dry upon the top of paint, which has been 
left standing for any length of time, may be made fit for use 
again by covering them with the sal- soda-water and soaking 
them therein for a couple of days ; then heat them, adding 
oil to reduce the mixture to a proper consistence for paint- 
mg, and straining. Painters who are doing extensive busi- 
ness will save many dollars yearly by this rdmple process. 



painter's department. 225 

NEW TIN ROOFS— Valuable Process for Paivt. 

XSQ. — Scrape off the rosin as clean aa possible and 8W3ep 
the roof; now: 

Dissolve sufficient sal-soda in a bucket of water to malcc it 
quite strong ; wash the roof thoroughly with the aoda-watcr and 
let it remain until it is washed off by the rains, or after a few 
kours, washing off with clean water, rinsing well. 

When dry give it one coat of pure Venetiaa-red, mixed 
with one-third boiled, and two-thirds raw linseed-oil ; tho 
second coat may be any color desired. The soda-water dis- 
solves the rosin remaining after scraping ; destroys the 
greasy nature of the solder, and of the new tin, so that there 
will be sufficient '■'Grip" for the paint to adhere firmly. 
The pure Venetian-red is one of the most durable paints for 
metallic-roofs, but is often rejected on account of its color. 
The above mode of painting will set aside ihis difficulty. 

2. Fiue-Pkoof Paint — for Roofs, «&c. — Slack stone-lime by 
putting it into a tub, to be covered, to keep in the steam. When 
slacked, pass the powder through a fine sieve ; and to each 6 
qts. of it add, 1 qt. of rock-salt, and water 1 gal.; then boil and 
skim '".lean. To each 5 gals, of this add, pulverized alum 1 lb. 
pulveHzed copperas i lb.; and still slowly add powdered potasl 
i lb.; then fine sand or liickorj- ashes 4 lbs. 

N /W add any desired color, and apply with a brush — looks 
better than paint, and is as durable as slute. It stops smal. 
leaks in roofs, prevents moss, and makes it incombustible • 
and renders brick impervious to wet. — Maine Farinei\ 

3. "Water-Proof, Oil- Rubber Patxt. — Dissolve about 6 lbs. 
of India rubber in 1 gal. of boiled linseed- oil, by boiling. If 
this is too thick, reduce with boiled-oil ; if too thin, use more 
rubber. ^ 

Especially applicable to cloth, but valuable for any other 
material. 

Frostinq Glass. — The frosty appearane 3 of glass, which 
we oilca -oo, where it is desired to keep out tho sun, oi 
" Man !i observing eye," is done by using a paint composed 
as follows : 

Sugar of lead well ground in oil, applied as other paint ; then 
pounced, while fresh, with a wad of batting held between ihb 
thmnb and finger. 

Afler which it is allowed to partially dry ; then with » 
ftraight-cdge laid upon the sa-sh, you run along by the side 



226 PR. CUASK'S RECIPEi. 

of it, a stick sharpened to the width of line you wish to ap- 
pear in the diamonds, figures, or squares, into which you 
choose to lay it off"; most frequently, however, straight lines 
are made an inch or more from the sash, according to the 
size of light, then the centre of the light made into dia- 
monds. 

ORIENTAL — CaYSTAJi Painting. — The colors used 
are Prussian-blue, crimson, white, and yellow-lakes, Ros- 
sean, white-zinc, and No. 40 carmine. Druggists keep them, 
in small tubes. They must be mixed with Demar-vamish, 
rubbing with a table-kuife or spatula upon glass. 

Directions for Making Various Shades, or Compound 
Colors. — Proportiou them about as follows — for green 1-5 blue, 
4-5 yellow— purple, 1-6 blue, 5-6 <;rim8on — orange, i crimson, f 
yellow — wine-color, 113 blue, 1112 crimson — pink, add a liule 
crimson to white-zinc — brown, mix a dark purple and add yel- 
low according to the shade desired — black, add crimson to dark 
green until llie shade siiits you — to njake the compound colors 
Bghter, add the lightest color in it, and make darker by using 
more of the darkest color in the compound. For backgroimd* 
—white, white-zinc, or pink wliite with turpentine and boiled 
iuseed oil and Demar-varnish — black, lamp-black, with asphal 
um-vamish and boiled linseed-oil and turpentine in equal quan- 
tities — Qesh-color, white-zinc with a small portion of crimson 
and chrome-yellow to suit. For sketching out the figures on 
the ground-work, use a little lamp-black with asphal tum-varnish, 
turpentine and boiled linseed-oil lo make it flow freely. 

Directions for Painting.^ — Make your glass perfectly 
clean, and place it over the picture you wish to copy ; then 
with the sketching preparation, trace on the glass all tht 
\it.cB connected with the figures of the picture which yoa 
are cppying, being' careful to sketch vines very distinct; 
when the sketching is done and dry, proceed to lay on the 
background inside of the sketched lines until all the sketch- 
ing is closed ; and when the background is dry, proceed to 
put on the colors, commencing with green, if any in th« 
figures, ending with yellow. When the colors are all kid, 
put the background upon the balance of the glass ; and 
when all is dry have tin foil crumpled very much in yotu 
hand, and then partly straightened out, and lay it ever the 
figure and keep it in its place by pasting paper over it in 
Buch a manner that it cannot slip away, letting the pa»ei 
cover the whole back of the glass, or a wood-back eat/ *»« 



PAINTERS' DEPARTMENT. 227 

placed behind the glass, and all is complete, and will look 
well or ill; according to the practice nnd taste of the painter. 
2. Fancy Green. — Unscorched, pulverized coffee, put 
into the white of an egg will, in twenty-four hours, produce 
a very beautiful green for fancy paiuting—proof of poi-son, 
in unbrofrned coffee. 

SKETCHING PAPER— To FiiRP/BJi.— Bleached linseed-oU. 
turpentine and balsam of fir, equal parts of each ; mix-. 

Have a fi-ame of a little less si-'e than the paper to be 
prepared, and apply paste or thick gum solution to one side 
and the outer edge of it ; wet the popcr in clean water and 
lay it upon the frame and press it down upon the pasted 
side of the frame, and turn the outer part of the paper over 
the outside of the frame upon the paste there, which holds 
it firm ; and when it becomes dry it is tight like a drum- 
head; whilst in this condition,- with a brush saturate it with 
the above mixture; three or four coat« will be needed, giv- 
ing each one time to dry before applyinj^ the next. Only 
sufficient is needed to make it transparfint, so that when you 
wiflh to sketch a rose, or other flower or leaf, from nature, 
the paper can be placed upon it like the glass in the " Ori- 
fttital Painting" ; then trace the lines ard finish it up in the 
same way also, as there described ; or that you may see 
through it in taking perspective views of distant scenery. 

DOOR PLATES— To Make.— Cut your f lass the right size, 
and make it perfectly clean wit'i alcohol or soap; then cut a 
strip of tin-foU sufficiently long and wide for the name, and with 
a piece of ivory or other burnisher rub it lengthwise to make it 
smooth; now wet the glass witli the tongue, (as saliva is the best 
Sticking substance,) or If the glass is very large, use a weak solu- 
tion of gimi arable, or the white of an egg m half a pint of 
water and lay on the foil, rubbing it down to the glass -nilh a bit 
of cloth, then also with the burnisher ; the more it is burnished 
the better will it look ; now mark the width on the foil which is 
to be the hightof the letter, and put on a straigbt-edge and hold 
it firmly to the foil, and with a shai'p knife cut the toil and take 
off the superfluous edges ; then either lay out the letters on the 
back of tlje foil, (so they shall read correctly on the front) by 
your own judgment or by means of pattern-letters, which can be 

Eurchascd for that purpose ; cut with the knife, carefully hold- 
ig down the pattern or straight-edge, whichever you use ; then 
rub down the edge of all the letters v.'ith the back of the knife, 
or edge of the burnisher, which prevents the black paint or 
lapaa which you next put over tlie back of Uie plate, liom get- 



228 DR. chase's eeoipbs. 

ting unde. the foil ; having put a line above and one lyoi'-rtr the 
name, or a border around the whole plate or not, as you oargain 
for the job. The japan is made by dissolving asphaltum in just 
anough turpentine to cut it (see " Asphaltum Varnish ") ; apply 
with a brush as other paint over the back of the letters and over 
tlie glass, forming a background. This is used on the iron frame 
of the plate also, putting it on when the plate is a little hot. and 
as soon as it cools it is diy. A little lamp-black may be rubbed 
into it if you desire it any blacker than it is without it. 

If you choose, you can remove every other foil letter, 
after the japan is dry, and paint in its place, red, blue, or 
other coloi'ed letters, to make a greater variety out of which 
for your customers to choose, as the one they desire you to 
follow in getting up their plate. Tin foil liein;,,' thicker 
than silver or gold foil, will not show the paint through il 
in little spots as they do ; but if these foils are desired to 
be used, you can put on two thicknesses by proceeding iia 
follows, which prevents the paint from showing through 
them : Lay en the first coat of the.'^e foils the same as di- 
rected for the tin-foil, and smooth it down by rubbing oa 
the front of the glass; then breathe on it until a dampne« 
is caused ; now put on the second and burnish well, havij:g 
paper over it ; but instead of the knife to cut around your 
pattern or straight-edge, take a sharp needle, using the point, 
make lines through the leaf around the pattern letter or 
straight-edge ; then with a bit of Jewelers' wood, or other 
hard wood, made to a narrow and pharp point, remove all 
up to the lines, both in and around the letters, as these 
foils have not the substance to peel off as the tin-foil , japan- 
ning over them the same as the other letters. Paper letters 
can be cut out of advertisements and put on by wetting the 
glass the same as for the foil, jappanning over them, and 
when dry, removing them and painting the places out of 
which they came with various colors as desired, as the japao 
will not peel, but makes a sharp and distinct edge ; and 
these painted letters look well, in this way; and by taking 
%dvantage of printed letters, saves the skill and time necett. 
sary to ibrm them. 

To illustrate ; in the name given below, A may be gold 
foil; W will be blue; C, red; H, black; A, gold-foil; S, 
blue ; E, red ; M, black ; and again D, gold-foil, which any 
one can see makes a more showy plate than if all were of 
one foil, or one color. 



PAINTER b L.i£PXHl iA£NT. 



229 



Set your glass in the frame with putty and put a thin 
coat of putty over the whole plate, as the plaster of Paris 
filling which is generally used soon eats out the japan or 
paint, and spoils the job. Persons with any ingenuity can 
very soon make a nice plate if they will pay attention to the 
above rules, as well as to pay five dollars for instructions, 
ar^ a little practice must be had to become perfect, even if 
you do pay five dollars for an hour or two's telling and 
showing. Shellac varnish colored with lamp-black is good 
in place of the japan. See " Varnish — Transparent, for 
AV'ood.'' 

ETCHING AND GRINDING UPON GLASS-Fon Signs, 
OK Side Lights.— Take the " Asphaltum Vamisli," and with a 
small pencil lay out the name or design, not putting the varnish 
upon the letters, but around it, leaving the space which the let- 
ters of the sign are to occupy, free and clear, as seen in the fol- 
lowing door plate, represented in the wood cut, and by the way, 
a very nice style of letter for that purpose also, we think: 



JH.EHJtSE.M.D 



^ 



V 



ITie varuish is to cover the black surface in the sign or name. 
TMe white line around the outside represents a border which 
improves the appearance of the plate; when the varnish is dry 
iiiive some melted bees-wax and as it begins to cool, with a 
knife take some of it up and scrape it olf upon the edge of the 
glass, being etched, so as to form a wall to hold tlie acid upon 
the glass while etching ; now lay the glass flat and pom- a little 
fiouric acid on to the name, letter, or design thus prepared, and 
let it remain on for one hour, not allowing the glass to be touched 
or ui'jved for tliat time ; then pour off the acid into your bottle, 
and it can be used again. The asphalt prevents the acid from 
eraing or etching only the letter, and the wax wall prevents th« 
acid from flowing otf and being wasted. When you pour ott 
the acid wash the glass with a little water, scrape off the wax^ 
and remove the asphalt with a little turpentine, and all is done. 

The above directions are for plain glass ; but if you desire, 
you can gild the letter which is etched (eat out,) or you can 
gild all except the letter, if desired, as described in the recipe 
for " Door i'lates," or you can grind the surface of the gla«8 



230 DB. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

B8 described under the head of " Glass-grinding for SigB«| 
Shades," &c. This applies equally well to " flashed," or 
what is called "stained glass," worked in the same way as 
above, putting the design or letters upon the stained side, 
which eats away the color and leaves the design clean and 
white ; or you can etch only a part of the way through thr 
Btain, which shows up the letter or flower lighter in coloi 
than the rest of the glass, which makes it look very beauti- 
ful for side-lights in halls, lamps, druggists' windows, &c. 

There are two kinds of colored glass — one is called " Pot 
metal," the other " Flashed." The pot-metal glass is made 
by mixing the stain or coloring with the melted glass, while 
■flaking, and consequently is alike all the way through. — 
The stained glass is made by applying tlie color to one side 
of the glass after it is made, then applying sufficient heat 
to allow it to take hold of the glass only — the color is all on 
one side ; this is the kind desired. 

If it is desired to etch upon druggists' or other jars, it 
can be done by preparing the name to be put on, with the 
varnish and wax ; then have a lead box without top or bot- 
tom ; in shape on the lower edge to fit the shape of the jar, 
and press this down upon the wax to make it tight; then 
pour your acid into the box which keeps it in its place the 
same as the wax does on a flat surface. Ornaments or 
flourishes can be put on as well as letters. 

The old plan was to cover the whole surface with wax, 
then remove it from the letter, which was very slow and 
troublesome, and if a bit of wax remained upon the bottle, 
the acid could not cut where the wax remained, then to 
hold the glass over the fumes of the acid, instead of put- 
ting the acid upon the glass. 

2. Glass-Grinding for Sings, Shades, &c. — After 
you have etched a name or other design upon uncolored 
^lass, and wish to have it show off to a better advantage by 
permitting the light to pass only through the letters, you 
can do so by : 

Tah'ng a jiiece of flat brass sufficiently large not to dip wjto 
Uie letters, but pass over them when gliding upon the surlact" of 
tlie glass ; then with flour of emery, and keeping it wet, you can 
%rmd the wl.ole siu-lace, very quickly, to look like the groimd 
glHSS globes, often seen upon lamps, except the letter whiri ui 
eaten below the general Hurface. 



painter's department. 281 

Whole fights of glass can be ground in this way instead 
df frosting, or the frosting can be done here in place of the 
grinding, if preferred. 

3. FLUORie Acid, To Make for Etching Purposes. — You 
can make yoiiv own fluoric (sometimes called hydro-fluoric) acid, 
by getting tlic fluor or Derbysliire spar, pulverizing it and put- 
ting all of it into aulpkuric acid wliicli the acid will cut or dis- 
fcolve. 

Druggists through the country do not keep this acid gen- 
erally, but they can ^et it in the principal cities and furnish 
it for about seventy-five cents per ounce, and that ounce will 
do at least fifty dollars worth of work. It is put up in 
gutta pereha-bottles, or lead-bottles, and must be kept in 
them when not in use, having corks of the same material. 
Glass, of course, will not hold it, as it dissolves the glass, 
otherwise it would not etch upou it. 

PORCELAIN FINISH— \ery Hard and White, for Par- 
lors. — To prepare the wood for the finish, if it be pine, give one 
or two coats of the " Varuish—Tiansparent for Wood," which pre- 
vents the pitch from oozing out causing the finish to turn yellow ; 
next, give the room, at least, four ooats of pure zinc, which may 
be ground in only sufficient oil to enable it to grind properly, 
then mix to a proper consistence with turpentine or naptha. 
Give each coat time to dry. When it is dry and hard, sand- 
paper it to a perfectly smooth surface when it is ready to 
receive the finish, which consists of two coats of French zinc 
ground in, and thinned with Demar-vwrnish, until it works prop- 
erly tmder the brush. 

Mr. Miles, of this city, one of our (Scientific painters, has 
been sufficiently kind to furnish me this recipe prepared ex- 
pressly for this work, therefore, the most implicit confidence 
may be placed in it, yet any one can judge for themselves, 
from the nature of the articles used, that it must be white 
and hard. He goes on to say that if the French-zinc in 
(Tarnish cannot be procured, the varnish may be whitened 
with zinc ground in oil as a very good substitute, being care- 
ful not to use too much, in which case it will diminish th>a 
gloss, and be more liable to turn yellow. A little turpen- 
tine or naptha may be added, if too thick to work well, but 
in no instance should oil be used to thin the paiut. 

This finish, if properly applied, is very beautiful, and al- 
though purely white, may be kept clean more easily than 
other kinds of painting by simply using a dusting brush j or 



232 oA. chase's recipes 

if soiled, a sponge wet in cold soft water witLout Boaj;, ut 
the better way. 

N. B. — Not a particle of wliite-lcad should be used where 
this finish is to be applied, either in the priming, or any sub- 
sequent coats, or a brush used that has been in leaa without 
being thoroughly cleansed, as a yellow hue will soon present 
'•tself, which is caused by a chemical change taking place 
ib;twecn the lead and zinc 

' PAINTERS' ECONOMY IN MAKING COLONS. -Pri's- 
BiAN Blue. — 1st. Take nitric acid, any quantity, and as mucli 
iron shavings from the lathe as the acid will dissolvi.-; heat the 
iron as hot as can be handled with the hand ; then add it to Ilia 
acid in small quantities as long as the acid will dissolve it, then 
slowly add double the qnantitj' of soft water that there was of 
acid, and put in iron again as long as tiie acid will dissolve it 
2nd. Take Prussiate of potash, dissolve il in hot water to make 
a strong solution, and make sufficient of it with the first to give 
the depth of tint desired, and the blue is made. Or: 

2. ANOTnEu Method. — A very passable Prnssian-bhie is made 
by taking suljihale of iron (copperas) and Prussiate of potash, 
eqna.' parts of each, and dissolving each separately in water, 
then mixing the two waters. 

3. Chrome Yellow. — 1st. Take sugar of lead and Paris- 
white, of each 5 lbs.; dissolve them in hot water. 2nd. Take 
bi-chromate of potash GJ ozs., and dissolve it in hot water also, 
each article to be dissolved separately, then mix all together, put- 
ting in the bi-chromate last. Let stand 24 hours. 

4. Chrome Green. — Take Paris-white di lbs.; sugar of lead, 
and blue vitriol, of each 3^ lbs.; alum lOi^ ozs.; best soft Prus- 
sian blue and chrome yellow, of each 3i lbs. IMix thoroughly 
while in fine powder, and add water 1 gal., stirring well and let 
stand 3 or 4 hours. 

5. Green, Durable and Cheap. — Take spruce yellow, and 
color it with a solution of chrome yellow and Prusaiau-biue, 
until you give it the shade you wish. 

G. Paris Green. — Take unslacked lime of the best quality, 
slack it with hot water ; then take the finest part of the powdci 
and add alum water, as strong as can be made, sufficient to foma 
a thick paste, then color it with bichromate of potash and sul- 
phate of copper, until the color suits your fancy. N. B.— The 
sulphate of copper gives the color a blue tinge — the bi-cliromate 
ol potash a yellow. Observe this and you will never fail. 

7. Another Method. — Blue vitriol 5 lbs.; p^jrar of lead 6^ 
lbs.; arsenic 2i lbs.; bichromate of potash U ozs.; mix them 
thoroughly in fine powder, and add water 3 pit., mixing well 
again and let stand 8 or 4 hours. 



blacksmiths' department 238 

8. Pea Brown. — Ist. Take sulphate of copper, any quantity 
And dissolve it in hot water. 2nd. Take prussiate of potasli, dis- 
solve it in hot water to make a strong solution ; mix of the two 
gjilutions, as in the blue, and the color is made. 

9. Rose Pink. — Brazil wood 1 lb., and boil it for 2 houi-s, 
having 1 gal. of water at the end ; then strain it and boil alum 1 
lb. in the shme water until dissolved ; when sufficiently cool 
to admit the hand, add muriate of lin f oz. Now have Paris- 
white 12^ lbs., moisten up to a salvy consistence, and when tha 
first is cool stir them thoroughly together. Let stand 24 houra. 

When any of the above mixtures have stood as mentioned, 
in their respective recipes, all that is necessary is to drain 
off the water by placing the preparations into muslin bags 
for that purpose, and then exposing the mixture to the air, 
to dry for use. 

Glass, stone, or wood vessels only should be used, as tha 
acids soon work upon iron, tin, copper, &c., givingyou a tingo 
not desired in the color, and always observe that if water is 
to be mixed with strong acids, it must be added slowly, es- 
pecially if in light vials, or you will break the vessel by 
means of tlie great heat which is set free by the combina- 
tion Painters can u.se their own judgment about making 
these colors ; but if they do not do it ibr profit there will ba 
pleasure in testing them, eveu in vials-full only, as the chem- 
ical action is just as fine in small as in large quantities. 



BLACKSMITHS' DEPARTMENT. 

FILES AND RASPS— To Re-cut by a Cheshcal Procks*. 

Bissolve saleratus 4 ozs., to water 1 qt., sufficient to cover tha 
flliis, and boil them in it for half an hour ; then take out, wash 
and dry them ; now stand them in ajar, filling it up with raia- 
waler and sulphuric acid, in the proportion of water 1 qt., to 
acid 4 ozs. 

If the files are coarse, they will need to remain in about 
twelve hours ; but for fine files, six to eight hours will be 
all-sufficient. When you take them out, wash them clean, 
dry quickly, and put a little sweet oil upon them, to prevent 
rust. 

This plan is applicable to blacksmiths, gun-smiths, tin- 
Ders, copper-smiths, machinista, &o., &c. Copper and tia 



234 DR. chase's recipes. 

workers will only require a short time to take the articles 
out of their files, as the soft metals with which they become 
filled, are soon dissolved, leaving the files about as good aa 
new. For blacksmiths and saw-mill men, it will require the 
full time. 

They may be re-cut two or tluee times, making in all 
more service than it took to wear out the file at first. 

The preparation can be kept and used as long as you see 
action take place upon putting the files into it. Keep it 
covered when not in use. 

If persons, when filing, would lift up the file, in carrying 
back, there would be no necessity of a re-cutting, but in 
draicing it back they soon turn a wire-edge, which the acid 
removes. It also thins the tooth. Many persons have 
doubted this fact ; but I know that the common three-square 
file, (used for sharpening saws,) when worn out and thrown 
by, for a year or two, may be again used with nearly tke 
Bame advantage as a new one. The philosophy of it is this 
— the action of the atmosphere acts upon the same principle 
of the acid, corrodes (eats off) the surface, giving a-new, a 
square, cutting edge. Try it, all ye doubtful ; I have tried 
both, -ind know their value. Boiling in the saleratus- 
water removes grease, and allows the acid to act upon the 
Bteel. 

VARNISn±:S— To Prevent Rust on Iron or Stkkl.— Tal- 
low 2 ozs.; rosin 1 oz.; melt and strain while hot. 

Apply a light coat of this, and you can lay away any arti 
cles not in constant use, for any length of time, such aA 
knives and forks, or mechanics' tools which are being laid 
by, or much exposed. But for axes or other new tools, 
which are exposed to the air before sold, you will find the 
following varnish preferable : 

2. Transparent, for Tools, Plows, &c. — Best alcohol 1 
gal.; gum sandarach 3 lbs.; gum mastic \ lb. Place all in a tin 
can which admits of being corked ; cork it tight, and shake it 
frequently, occasionally placing the can in hot water. WheB 
dissolved, it is ready to use. 

This makes a very nice varnish for new tools whicb art 
exposed to dampness j the air, even, will soon (more or loss) 
tarnish new work. 

8. 8kbk-No-Farther, fob Ikon ob Stkel.— Take best cf pel 



BLACSMITHS' DEPARTMENT. 236 

varnish, and add sufficient olive oil to make it feel a little 
preasy ; then add nearly as much spirits of turpentine as there 
IS of varnish, and you will probably seek no farther. 

4. Traksi'arent Blue, for Steel Plows. — Take Demar 
varnish i gal.; finely ground Prussian-blue i oz ; mix thor 
oughly. 

For ground Bteel-plows, or other ground steel, one or two 
eoata of this will be found sufficient to give a nice blue ap- 
pearance, like highly-tempered steel ; some may wish a little 
more blue ; if so, add the Prussian-blue to your liking. 
Copal varnish is not so transparent as the Demar, but if you 
vrill have a cheap varnish, use No. 4. 

6. Black, Having a Polish, for Iron— Pulverized gum 
asphaltum 2 lbs. ; gum benzoin J lb. ; spirits of turpentine 1 gal. 
o make quick, keep in a wann place and shake often ; shade to 
iuit with finely ground ivory black. 

Apply with a brush. And it ought to be used on iron 
exposed to the weather as well as on inside work desiring 
a nice appearance or polish. Or : 

7. Varnish for Iron. — Asphaltum 8 lbs. ; melt it in an iron 
kettle, slowly adding boiled linseed-oil 6 gals. ; litharge 1 lb. ; and 
Bulphat€ of zinc i lb. ; continuing to boil for 3 hours ; then add 
ilark gum amber 1| lbs., and continue to boil 2 hours longer 
When cool reduce to a proper consistence, to apply with a brush, 
with spmts of turpentine. 

8. I WISH here, also, to state a fact which will benefit 
those wishing to secure vines or linibs of trees to the side 
of a white house, with nails, and do not wish to see a streak 
of rust diwa the white paint, as follows : 

Make a hole, 'n which to start the nail, putting a little strip 
of zinc into the hole, and drive the *nail in contact with the 
iiinc. 

The electrical a'jtion of the two metals, in contact, pre- 
vent rust, proven by ever eight years trial. 

WELDING — Cast Stkfl Without Borax.— Copperas 8 
ozs. ; saltpetre 1 o?. ; common salt 6 ozs. ; black oxyde of man- 
ganese 1 oz. ; Prussiate of potash 1 nz. ; all pulverized and mix- 
ed with nice welding sand 3 lbs., &nd use it the same as you 
nould sand. 

Higher tempered steel can be used with this better than 
with borax, as it welds at a lower heat — such a? pitchfork 
dues, toe-corks, &c. The pieces should be held together 
(rhile heating. I have found some blacksmiths using it 



286 DR. chase's EECIPE9. 

without tha Manj^aneee ; but from what I know of the puri- 
fying properties of that article upon iron, 1 am sure it must 
be preferable with it, as that is the principal purifyer in the 
next recipe. 

POOR IRON, — To Improvk. — Black oxide of manganese 1 
part ; copperas and common salt 4 parts each ; dissolve in soft 
water and boil until dry ; when cool pulverize and mix quite 
freely with nice welding sand. 

When you have poor iron which you cannot afford to 
thiow away, heat it and roll it in this mixture, working for 
a time, re-heating, «S:e., will soon free it liom all imj)uritie8, 
which is the cause of its rottenness. By this process you 
can make good horse-nails, even out of only common iron. 

WRITING UPON Iron ou Steel, Silveb or Gold, not 
TO Cost the Tenth Part of a Cent per Letter. — Jluri- 
atic acid 1 oz. ; nitric acid i oz. Mix, when it is ready for use. 

Directions — Cover the place you wish to mark, or write 
upon, with melted bees-wax ; when cold, write the name 
plain with a file point or an instrument made for the pur- 
po.se, carrying it through the wax and cleaning the wax all 
out of the letter ; then apply the mixed acids with a feathery 
carefully filling each letter J let it rem?in from one to ten 
minutes, according to the appearance desired ; then put on 
some water, which dilutes the acids and stops the process. 
Either of the acids, alone, would cut iron or steel, but it 
requires the mixture to tiike hold of gold or silver. After 
you wash off the acids it is best to apply a little oil 

MILL-PICKS, -To Temper.— To 6 qts. of soft water, put in 
pulverized corrosive sublimate 1 oz., and 2 hands of common 
salt ; when dissolved it is ready for use. The first gives tough- 
ness to the steel, whilst the latter gives the hardness. I have 
found those who thmk it better to add sal-ammoniac, pulverized, 
2 ozs., to the above. 

DiRECTiONNS. — Heat the picks to only a cherry red and 
plunge them in and do not draw any temper. In working 
mill-picks, be very careful not to over-heat th2m, but work 
them at as low a heat as possible. The reason why so many 
fail in making good picks, is that they don't work them a* 
as low heat as they should. With care upon that poiut, 
and the above fluid, no trouble will be experienced, evea 
OQ the best diamond burrs. Be sure to keep the pr«par*- 



blacksmiths' depabtment. 2S7 

don covered when not in use, as it is poison. Pigs or dogi 
might drink of it, if left uncovered. This is the mixture 
which lias gained me the name of having the best prepara- 
ration in use for mill-picks, and the certificates on this sub- 
ject, but as I have some others which are very highly spo- 
ken of, 1 give you a few others. 

2. An English Miller, after buying my book, gave me 
the following recipe, for which he paid ten dollars. He 
had used it all his life, or from the time he began business 
for himself, (about thirty years,) and he would use no 
othof. 

Salt i tea-cup ; saltpetre i oz. ; alum, pulverized, 1 tea-spoon; 
Bort water 1 gal. ; never heating over a cherry red, nor drawing 
any te»rtper. 

3. Salt petre, sal-ammoniac, and alum, of each 2 ozs. ; salt 
H Ihs. ; water 'd gals. ; and draw no temper. 

There must be something in this last, as the next one 1 
obtained at least five hundred miles from where I did this, 
and both from men who knew their value, and yet they re- 
semble each other near enough to be called " The twins." 

4. MiLi.-PiCK3 AND Saw Gi'mmei^s, to Tempeu. — Saltpetre 
and alum, eacli 2 ozs. ; sal-ammoniac i oz. ; salt 1^ lbs. ; soft 
water i> gals. Ileal to a chcrry-rcd and plunge them in, and 
draw no temper. 

The steel must never be heat above a cherry-red, and in 
working and drawing the picks there ought to be quite an 
amount of light water-hammering, even after the steel is 
Quite cool. Once more and I am done : yet it may be pos- 
?jble that the last, in this case, maybe the best; read it. 

.> 1MlLL-PrCK-TEMrEKING AS DONE BY ChURCH, OK A.KH Ar- 

BOR. Water 3 gals. ; salt 2 qts. ; sal-ammoniac and saltpetre, of 
each 2 >zs. ; ashes from white ash bark 1 shovel, which causes 
the picks to scale clean and white as silver. 

I obtained this recipe of a blacksmith who paid young 
Mr. Church five dollars for it, he coming into the shop and 
showing him how to work the picks, as also the composi- 
tion — his instructions were, not to hammer too cold, to avoid 
flaws ; not to heat too high, which opens the pores of the 
iteel, nor to heat more than one or two inches of tho pick 
when tempering The gentleman says, if care is taken io 
beating and wjrking, that no other tempering liquid will 



2B$ !>&• chase's BE0I9X5. 

equal it, yet he spoiled the first batct by over heating, ev« 
•ifter Mr. Church had taken all paiw to show him. Thej 
(the Messrs. Church) have picks sent S) them, for temper- 
ing, from Illinois and even Wisconsin 

BUTCHER-KNIVES— Sprino-Temper and Beaum- 
ruL Edge. — In forging out the knif» as you get it near 
to its proper thickness, be veiy careful «\ot to heat it too 
high, and to water-hammer as for mill p'cks; when about 
to temper, heat only to a cherry-red and hold it in such a 
way that you can hold it plumb a.s you -pvi it into the water 
which prevents it from springing — put i' plumb into the 
water and it will come out straight. 

Take it from tlie water to the fire and p»ss it through the 
blaze until a little hot ; then rub a candle over t upon both sides 
and back to the fire, passing it backward anc forward, in the 
blaze, turning it over often to keep the heat ev*n over the whole 
surface, until the tallow psisses off ad though \t went into the 
steel ; then take out and rub the candle over it again (on both 
sides each time) and back to the fire, passing i- as before, until 
it starts into a blaze, with a snap, being careml 'hat the heat i> 
even over the whole length and width of the toe', then rub th« 
tallow over it again and back, for 3 times, quickly "s it bums oflf; 
and lastly rub the tallow over it arain and push ** into the dual 
of the forge, letting it remain until cold. 

If these directions are followed with dexte*nty you will 
have the temper alike from edge to back ; a^d the edge 
will be the best you ever saw, as Davy Crockett used to say 
" It will jump higher, dive deeper," shave mor< hogs, bend 
farther without breaking, and give better satisHction than 
all other knives put together. 

It works equally well on drawing-knives and pther thin 
tools; and for trap-springs which are to be s*t on dry 
ground; but if set in water, "pop goes the weasel" the 
first time the trap is sprung ; but the following is ^-ie plan 
for tempering springs for general trapping. 

2. TRA.P SPRINGS— To Temper.— For tempering o^t steel 
trap springs, all that is necessary ia to heat them in the d^^k jasH 
that you may see it is read, then cool them in lukewarm watef. 
This is a short recipe, but it makes long-lasting springs. 

The reason why darkness is required to temper sp«-\nga 
is that a lower degree of heat can be seen in the night- than 
by day-light : and the low heat and warm water giv? xht 
desired temper. 



blacksmiths' department. 289 

SILVER PLATING— For Carkiage Work —First, let the 
i irts which are to receive the plate be filed very smooth ; then 
apply over the surface the muriate of zinc, which is made by 
dissolving zinc in muriatic acid ; now hold this part over a dish 
containing hot soft-solder, (pewtei solder is probably the softest) 
and with a swab apply the solder to the part, to which it ad- 
heres ; brush off all superfluous solder, so as to leave the surface 
smooth ; you will now take No. 2 fair, silver plate, of the right 
size to cover the surface of the part prepared with solder, and 
lay the plate upon it, and rub it down smooth with a cloth which 
is moistened with oil, then, with a soldering-iron, pass slowly 
over all the surface of the plate, which melts the solder under- 
neath it, and causes the plate to adhere as firmly as the solder 
does to the iron ; then polish the surface, finishing with buck- 
Bkin. 

The soldering-irons must be tinned, and also kept very 
smooth, and used at about the same heat as for soldering 
tin. 

IRON— To Prevent Welding.— Where it is desired to weld 
two bars of iron together, for making axletrees or other purpo- 
ses, through which you wish to have a bolt-hole, without punch- 
ing out a piece of the iron, you will take a piece of wet paste- 
board, the width of the bar and the length you desire not to 
weld, and place it between the two pieces of iron, and hold them 
firmly upon the pasteboard while taking the heat, and the iron 
will weld up to the pasteboard, but not where it is ; then open 
the hole, with swedge and punch, to the desired size. 

In this way blacksmith's tongs may be relaid, without tbe 
trouble of cutting the joints apart and making a new jaw. 
Simply fit two pieces of iron, the thickness you wish to add 
to the jaw of the tongs, have them of the right length and 
width also, then take them both between the jaws and heat 
them so you can pound them together, that they will fit 
closely for a weld ; now put a piece of the wet pasteboard 
between the pieces which you are to weld, having the 
handles of the tongs strand sufficiently apart that you may 
put on a link or ring to hold all firmly ; then put into the 
fire, and take a good welding heat ; and yet they do not 
weld where the paper was between them ; if they stick a 
little at the end, just put them on the swedge and give them 
a little tap with the hammer, and they will fly right apart 
as nice as new. I am told that the dust from the ground 
or floor of the blacksmith-shop is as good as the pasteboard, 
y^jt I have not seen that tried ; but I know there is no mis- 



240 DR. COAdK'S RhCrPES. 

take in the other ; and yet I have found one blacksiaiti 
who declared he would not believe it could be done, even it 
he saw it. • 

(!AST-IRON— To Casb-Hahdkn.— Cast-iron may be cas* 
hardened by heating to a red heat, and then rolling it in a coni- 
lx)8ition composed of equal parts of Prussiate of potash, sa4' 
ammoniac, and saltpetre, all pulverized and thoroughly mixeti; 
Ihen plunged, while yet hot, into a bath containing 2 ozs. of ih« 
Prussiate, and 4 ozs. of the sal-ammoniac to each gal. of cold 
water. — Scientific Artisan. 

2. Cast-Iuox — The Hardest, To Soften for Drillfng.— 
Heat to a cherry red, having it lie level in the fire, then with a 
pair of cold tongs put on a piece of brimstone, a little less in 
6;ze than j-on wish the hole to be when drilled, and it softens en- 
tirely through the piece ; let it lie in the fire until a little cool, 
when it is ready to drill. 

Sleigh-shoes have been drilled, by this plan, in five min- 
utes, after a man hud spent half a day in drilling one- 
fourth of an inch, into it. It is applicable to any article 
which can be heat without injury. 

WROUGHT - IRON— To Case - Harden.— To case-harden 
wrought-iron, take tlie Prns.siate of potash, finely pulverized, 
and roll the article in it, if its shape admits of it, if not, sprinkle 
the powder upon it freely, while the h-on is hot. 

This is applicable to iron-axletrees, by heating the axle- 
tfce and rolling the bottom of it in the powder, spread out 
for that purpose, turning it up quickly and pouring cold 
water upon it, getting it into the tub of cold water as quick 
as possible. They will wear for years, without showing 
wear. 

2. Welding a Small Piece op Iron Upon a Largb 
One, with Only a Light Heat. — It is often desirable 
to weld a small bit of iron upon a large bar, when the largo 
piece must be heated equally hot as the small one. Tb 
save this : 

Take borax 1 lb.; red oxide of iron 1 to 2 ozs.; melt them to- 
gether in a crucible ; and when cold, pulverize it and keep tba 
powder dry for use. 

When you want to perform the operation, just bring the 
large piece to a white heat, having a good welding heat up- 
on the small slip ; take the large one from the fire, and 
sprinkle some of the powder upon the place, and bring th« 



BLACKSMITHS' DEPARTMENT. 241 

Other upon it, applying the hammer smartly, and the weld 
will be as good as could bo made with the greater heat 
without the powder. 

BRONZING— For Iron or WooD.—First, make a black 
paint ; then put in a little chrome-yellow, only sufficient to give 
it a dark-green shade ; apply a coat of this to th« article to be 
bronzed ; when dry, give it a coat of varnish ; and when the 
varnish is a little dry, dust on bronze by dipping a piece of vel- 
vet into the bronze and shaking it upon the varnish ; then give 
it another coal of varnish, and when dry, all is complete. 

Cast-iron bells, which are now being extensively intro- 
duced to the farming community, will be much improved ia 
their appearance by ihu^ bronzing, and also protected from 
rttst, without injury to itt sound. Iron fences around yards, 
porches, verandas, &c., wii^ be much improved by it. It 
may also be aj)plied to wood, if desired. 

TRUSS SPRINGS.— Directions for Blacksmiths 
ro Make — Better than the Patent Trusses. — After 
having tried the variotis kinds of trusses, over two years, 
having to wear one upon eaoh side, I gave them all up as 
worse than useless. 

I then went to a blacksmith and had springs made, bending 
them as represented in the cut. 




TRtrSS SPRING. 

Then they were bent to suit the shape of the body, and to 
press upon the body only sufficient, after the pads are put on, to 
h-old hsKk. that which would otherwise protrude. The pad upon 
the back end of the spring I make of sole-leather, covered with 
cotton or linen clott, having stuffed in a little batting to raaka 
U rest as easy as possilble. The front pad I make by having a 
piece of wood turned the shape and size of a small hen's egg, 
fiivwiog it through the center lengthwise, putting two screws into 
it tliroiigh the holes represented in the end of the spring for 
that purp(»e. The back pad is secured by one screw only. The 
spring is oil^d, then covered with sheep skin, to prevent rusting. 
Thta it ifl secured aroimd the body with a leather strap and 



242 !>&• OHABE'li BECIP£S 

buckle, or with a piece of cloth sewed into a string of suitable 
width to sit easy where it bears upon the hip, in passing to tie 
upon the other end of the spring, just back of the front pad. 
The bend which is given the spring, before it is bent to the shape 
of the body, gives it room to rise when the leg is raised, without 
lifting the pad from its position, saving the necessity of another 
strap to pass around under the thigh, as with the patent truss, 
which is very annoying to the wearer. Make the springs r»r 
Bpring-steel, about i or | of an inch in width, and about 1-16 in 
thickSess, and of sufficient length to have a bearing just short 
of the spine. 

I now speak from eight years personal experience, •which 
ought to be a sufficient length of time for an experiment to 
be well established. 



TINNER'S DEPARTMENT. 

BLACK VARNISH— For Coal Bucksts.— Asphaltum i lb."; 
lamp-black J lb. ; rosin ^ lb. ; spirits of turpentine 1 qt. 

Dissolve the asphaltum and rosin in the turpentine ; then 
rub up the lamp-black with linseed-oil, only suffiaient to 
form a paste, and mix with the others. Apply with a brush. 

JAPAN FLOW FOR TIN— All Colobs.— Gum sandarach 

1 lb. ; balsam of fir, balsam of tolu, and acetate of lead, of each 

2 ozs. ; linseed-oil i pt. ; spirits of turpentine 2 qts. 

Put all into a suitable kettle, except the turpentine, over 
a slow fire, at first, then raise to a higher heat until all are 
melted ; now take from the fire, and when a little cool, stir 
in the spirits of turpentine and strain through a fine cloth. 
This is transparent ; but by the following modifications any 
or all the various colors are made from it. 

2. Black. — Prussian blue \ oz. ; asphaltum 2 ozs. ; spLrita of 
tiupcntine i pt. 

Melt the asphaltum in the turpentme ; rub up the blue 
with a little of it, mix well and strain ; then add the whoU 
to one pint of the first^ above. 

3. Bi.TJB. — Indigo and Prussian blue, both flnelv pulverijsed, 
of each \ oz. ; spirits of turpentine 1 pt. Mix well and strain. 

Add ot this to one pint of the^«^ until the color guita. 



TINNER'S DEPARTMENT. 243 

L T?.in>. — Take spirits of turpentine i pt. ; add cochineal i oz. < 

xt stand 15 hours, and strain. 

A dd of this to the Jirst to suit the fancy. 

5 Yellow. — Take 1 oz. of pulverized root cf curcuma ajid 
stir of it into 1 pt. of t)ie first, until the color pleases you, Id 
stand a few houi's and strain. 

6. Gkekn. — Mix enm) parts of the blue and yellow toget^es 
tiieu mix with tlie first until it suits the fancy. 

7. Oba>(Ge. — Mix a little of the red with more of the yellow 
and then with the fi7'itt as heretofore, until pleased. 

8. Pink. — Mix a little of the blue to more in quantity of th* 
red, and thon with the first until suited. 

In this simple and philosophical way you get all the vari- 
ous colors. Apply with a brush. 

GOLD LACQUER FOR TIN.— Transparent, All Coir 
ORS. — Alcohol in a hask i pt. ; add gum shellac 1 oz. ; turmeilo 
^ oz. ; red-sanders i oz. Set the llask in a warm jAace, shake 
frequently for 13 hours or more, then strain off the liquor, rinse 
the bottle and return it, corking tightly for use. 

When this varnish is used, it must be applied to the work 
freely and flowing, or, if the work admits ef it, it may b<i 
dipped into the varnish, and laid on the top of the stove ta 
dry, which it will do very quickly ; and they must not )e 
rubbed or brushed while drying ; or the article may be hot 
when applied. One or more coats may be laid on, as the 
ioloT is required more or less light or deep. This is applied 
to lanterns, &c. If any' of it should become thick from 
evaporation, at any time, thin it with alcohol. And by the 
following modifications, all the various colors are obtained. 

2. Rose Color. — Proceed as above, substituting i oz. of finely 
ifround, best lake, in place of the turmeric. 

3. Blue. — The blue is made by substituting pulverized Prui- 
«ian blue i oz. in place of the turmeric. 

4. Purple. — Add a little of the blue to the^rst 

5. Green. — Add a little of the rose-color to the first. 

Here again philosophy gives a variety of shades witfc 
only a slight change of materials or combinations. 

LACQUER FOR BRASS.— Transparent.— Turmeric root 
g-'ound tine, 1 oz.; best dragon's blood i dr.; put into alcohol 1 
pt.; place in a moderate heat, shake well for several days. It 
must be strained through a linen cloth and put back into the 
buttle, and add powdered gum shellac 3 ozs.; then keep as be* 



244 



D&. CUA£K'B EKCIPSB. 



foro in a warni place for Beveral days, frequently shaken ; thta 
a^ain strained, bottled and corked tight. 

Lacquer is put upon metal for improving its appearaoce 
and preserving its polish. It is applied with a brush wboD 
the metal is warm, otherwise it will not spread evenly. 

IRON — To Tin fou Solderlng ok Other Porposes. — Tak« 
any quantity of muriatic acid and dissolve all the zinc in it thai 
it will cut ; then dilute it with one-fourth as much soft water ai 
of acid, and it is ready for use. 

This rubbed upon iron, no matter how rusty, cleanses it 
and leaves some of the zinc upon the surface, sa that soldei 
."eadily adheres to it, or copper as mentioned below for cop- 
pering iron or steel, 

2. Iron, Iron Wire, or Steel, to Copper thb Sitrface.— 
Rain water 3 lbs.; sulphate of copper 1 lb. Dissolve. 

Have the article perfectly clean; then wash it with this 
solution and it immediately exhibits a copper surface. 

Lettering on polished steel is done in this way; flower' 
ing or ornamenting can also be done in the same way 
Sometimes dilute muriatic acid is used to clean iho surface; 
the surface must be clean by filing, rubbing, or acid j then 
cleaned by wiping off. 

COPPER — To Tin for Stew-Dishes oh Other Pcrposes.— 
Wash the surface of the article to be tinned, with sulphuric 
acid ; and rub the surface well, so as to have it smooth and fre€ 
of blackness caused by the acid ; then gprinkle calcined and 
finely pulverized sal-ammoniac upon the surface, holding it ovei 
a fire where it will become sufficiently hot to melt a bar of sol- 
der which is to be rubbed over the surface ; if a stew-dish pufl 
Ihe solder into it and swab it about when melted. 

You will wipe off any surplus solder, and also for the 
purpose of smoothing the surface, by means of a tow or col- 
ton swab, tied or tacked to a rod. In this way any dish oi 
copper article may be nicely tinned. 

BOX-IIETAL — To Make for Machtnery.— Copper 4 parts; 
lead 1 part — ziuc is sometimes substituted for the lead — eithet 
makes a durable box for journals. 

Printer's worn out type, in place of the lead, makes aa 
improvement. 

SOLDERS — For Braztng.— Copper 3 part? ; zinc 2 porta 
or sheet brass 3 parts ; zinc 1 part. 

2. Solder for Lead.— Take tin 1 part ; lead 2 parta. 
I. SoLDBB ro» Tm — T^ad 10 pu-U : tio 7 »»»r«« 



TINKERS DEPARTMENT 245 

4. SoLDSK FOR Britannia. — Bismuth i of one part ; tin 1 
part , lead 1 part. 

BKITANNIA— To Use Old, instead op Block Tin, in Soi,- 
DER. — Take old Britannia and melt it; and while Lot sprinkle 
sulphur over it and stir for a short time. 

This burns out the other articles in it, and leaves the 
bl-ick tin, which may now be used for making solder asgoo^ 
v new tin. 

TIN — To Pearl, or Crystalize. — Sulphuric acid 4 ozs.; sofl 
water 2 to 3 ozs., according to strength of acid.; salt 1 oz.; mix. 

Heat the tin quite hot over a stove or heater ; then with 
& sponge wet with the mixture, washing off directly with 
elean water. Dry the tin ; then varnish it with Demar- 
?arnish. 

This brings out the crystalline nature of the tin. Used 
in making water-coolers, spit-toons, &c. 

2. Tinning Flux — Improved. — It has been customary for 
tinners to use the muriate of zinc only ; but if you take 1 lb. of 
muriatic acid and put in all the zinc it will cut ; then put in 1 
oz. of sal-ammoniac, ;;-sa will have no more trouble with 
old dirty or greasy seams. 

Sometimes I think it is still improved by adding to it an 
equal amount of soft water. 

3. Liquid Glue, for Labeling Upon Tin. — Boiling 
water one quart ; borax, pulverized, two ounces ; put in the 
borax ; then add gum shellac four ounces, and boil until 
dissolved. 

Labels put upon tin with common, glue or common paste 
will not stick long. But this preparation obviates the diffi- 
culty entirely, 

SCOURING LIQUID— For Brass, Doob-Knobs, «&c.— OU 
©f vitrol 1 oz. ; sweet oil i gill ; pulverized rotton stone 1 gill ; 
rain-water 1^ pts. ; mix all, and shake as used. 

Apply with a rag, and polish with buck-skin or old wool- 
en. This makes as good a preparation as can be purchased, 
and for less than half the money. It does not give a coat- 
ing, but is simply a scourer and polisher. The following 
gives it a silver coating : 

SILVERING POAVDER— For Copper or worn Plated 
Goods. — Nitrat*, of silver and common salt, of each 80 grs. : 
cream of tartar 8i drs. ; pulverize fiiiely, mix thoroughly and 
botU« for UA& 



246 DR. chase's recipes. 

When desired to re-silver a worn spoon or other articla, 
first clean them with the " Scouring Liquid " ; then moisten 
a little of the powder and rub it on thoroughly with a piece 
of buck-skin. For Jewelry, see " J ewelry DepaitEwnt." 

OIL CANS — Size op Sheet, for fhom 1 to 100 («£.llon8. — 

25 gallons, 30 bj 56 inche% 
40 " 36 bj 63 " 
60 " 40 by 70 



Yor 1 gallon, 7 by 20 inches 
3i " 10 by 28 " 

5 " 12 by 40 " 

6 " 14 by 40 " 
10 « 20 by 42 " 
15 " 80 by 42 " 

This includes all the laps, seams, &c., which will b« fooiU 
sufficiently correct for all practical purposes. 



75 " 40 by 84 
100 " 40 by 98 



GUNSMITHING DEPARTMENT. 

GUN-BARRELS— Browning Process— Spirits of nj*»e 1 lb.i 
alcobol 1 lb. ; corrosive sublimate 1 oz. ; mix in a bottle and 
keep corked for use. 

Directions. — Plug both er.Js of the barrel, and let the 
plugs stick out three or four inches, to handle by, and also 
to prevent the fluid from en( -ring the barrel, causing: it to 
rust; polish the barrel perfectly; then rut) it well with 
quick-lime by means of a cloth, which removes oil or 
grease; now apply the brt ^ning fluid with a clean white 
cloth, apply one coat and set in a warm, dark place, until a 
red rust is formed over the whole surfacs, which will re- 
quire, in warm weather, fro'^aa ten to twelve hour^s, and in cold 
weather, from fifteen to twenty hours, or until the rust be- 
comes red ; then card it down with a gun-raaker's card and 
rub off with a clean clath ; repeat the process until tht 
color suits, as each coat gives a darker shade. 

2. Quicker and le^^s Laborious Process. — While in 
Evansville, Ind., I solii one of my books to C. Keller, a 
man who carries on gin.smithing, extensively. He gave 
me the following," which ^e was using, and says it makes & 
dark brown, with but lit4e labor compared with the first. 

Soft water 1 qt., and dissolve in it blue vitriol 2 ozs. ; corrouvt 



gunsmiths' depabtment 247 

Bublimate 1 oz. ; and add 1 oz. of spirits of nitxe. Have the 
barrel bright and put ou one coat of the mixture ; and in 1 hour 
after, put on another, and let the barrel stand 12 hours ; then oil 
it and rub it with a cloth, of course having the ends of the bar 
rel tightly plugged, as in the first case. 

But Mr. Sutherland, the gunsmith of this city, says the 
brown from this recipe will soon rub off; none being per- 
manent unless carded down properly, as directed with th« 
first recipe, that mixture being also superior. 

3. Brownenq for Twist Barrels. — Take spirits of nitre i 
oz. ; tincture of steel f oz. ; (if the tincture of steel cannot be 
obtained, the unmedicated tincture of iron may be used, but it 
is not so good) black brimstone i oz. ; blue vitriol i oz. ; corro- 
sive sublimate i oz. ; nitric acid 1 dr. or GO drops ; copperas J 
oz. ; mix with 1^ pts. of rain water, keep corked, also, as the 
other, and the process of applying is also the same. 

You will understand this is not to make an imitation of 
twist barrels, but to be used upon the real twist barrels, 
which brings out the twist so as to show ; but if you use 
the first upon the real twist barrels, it will make the whole 
surface brown like the common barrel. 

CASE-HARDENING— For Lock-work.— Take old boots 
and shoes and lay them on a fire, and burn them until charred ; 
now put them into a clean kettle and pulveiize them coarsely, 
while hot ; be careful not to get any wood coals mixed with 
ihem. 

Directions. — Take the pulverized leather and place in a 
iheet-iron box, placing the articles to be hardened in the 
centre of the box, or amongst the pulverized leather, and 
cover with a sheet-iron cover ; or make the box so as to 
«hut up ; now blow up a fire of very dry charcoal ; the 
coarser the charcoal the better ; then open the fire and place 
the closed box in the centre, cover it up and let stand fi"om 
forty to sixty minutes, not blowing; but if the coals burn 
off and leave the box exposed, you will put on more ; at tlie 
expiration of the time, take the box and pour its conteuU 
It to clean, moderately cool or cold water — never use warm 
w^ter ; these articles will now be found very hard, and will 
eftsily break ; so you will draw the temper to suit. 

BROKEN SAWS— To SIend Permanently —Pure silver 19 
flirts ; pure copjier 1 part ; pure brass 2 parts ; all are to be 
Kied into powder and intimately mixed. K the saw is not re- 
tently broken, apply the tinning preparation of the next recipe. 



248 DR. chase's RE0TPE8 

Place the saw level upon the anvil, the broken edges in 
close contact, and hold them so ; now put a small line of 
the naixture along the seam, covering it with a larger bulk 
of powdered charcoal; now, with a spirit-lamp and a jewel- 
crs' blow-pipe, hold the coal-dust in place, and blow sufficient 
to melt the solder mixture ; then with a hammer set the joint 
smooth, if not already so, and file away any superfluous 
fto.dar ; and you will ba surprised at its strength. The heat 
upon a saw does not injure its temper as it does other tools, 
from the fact that the temper is rolled in, in place of by 
heat and water. 

TINNING — SuPEKioR TO the Oi-d Process. — Take first, th* 
same as the old way ; that is, muriatic acid 1 pt., and as much 
pure block or sheet zinc as it will cut, in an open dish, a bowl^ 
or something of that character, as much heat is set free and bot- 
tles are often broken by it ; now take sal-ammoniac 4 ozs.; pul- 
verize it and add to the other, and boil 10 minutes in a copper 
betlle^bear in mind, only copper is to be used to boil in. 

You will find this will cause the solder to flow right 
along without difficulty. Keep corked tight when not in 
use. 

VARNISH AND POLISH FOR STOCKS— German.— Gum 
shellac 10 ozs.; g\im sandarach 1 oz. ; Venice turpentine 1 
drachm ; alcohol 95 to 98 proof 1 gal.; shake the jug occasion- 
ally for a day or two, and it is ready for use- 
After using a few coats of this, you can have a German- 
polish, by simply leaving out 8 ozs. of the shellac j and a 
coat or two of the polish makes an improvement on the 
varnish, and does not require the rubbing, that it would if 
the full amount of shellac was used, in the last coat or two. 
It is recommended also to put upon cuts, sores, &c., burM 
excepted. 



JEWELERS' DEPARTMENT. 

GALVANIZING— Without a Battery.— Dissolve cyanuret 
of potassium 1 oz., in pure rain or snow water 1 pt., to which 
add a 1 dr. bottle of the chloride of gold, and it is ready to use. 
Scour the article to be plated, from all dirt and grease, witlt 
wbitiug, chalk, or rotten stone, pulverized, and put in alcohol^ 



JEWELERS DEPAKTMENT. 



249 



a?lng a good brush — or the " Polishing Compouud," No. 3 ; if 
mere are cracks, it maj^ be necessary to put the article in a solu- 
lion of caustic potash — at all events, every particle of greaso and 
iirt must be removed ; then suspend the article to be plated ia 
Vlie cy-inuret of gold solution, with )i small strip of zinc cul 
ibout the.width of a common knitting-needle, hooki«g the top 
!)ver a stick which will reach acrwss the top of the jar holding 
iic solution. 

Every five to ten minutes, tlie article should be taken out 
and brushed over with the scouring preparation ; or on 
smooth surikces it may be rinsed oif and wiped with a piece 
of cotton cloth, and return until the coating is sufficiently 
heavy to suit. 

When the plating fluid is not in use, bottle it, keeping it 
corked, and it is always ready for use, bearing in mind that 
it is as poison as arsenic, and must be put high, out of the 
Tvay of children, and labeled — J-'akon, although you will 
have no fears in using it ; yet accidents might arise, if iti 
nature were not knowu. The zinc strip, as far as it reaches 
into the fluid, will need to be rubbed occasionally, until it is 
bright. 

2. Galvanizing "With a Shilling Battery. — I have 
found some persons who thought it much better to use a 
simple battery, made by taking a piece of copper rod about 
three-eighths of an inch in thickness, and about eighteen or 
twenty inches long, and bend it, as seen in the accompany- 
ing cut : 




SHILLING BATTERY. 

The rod should be about 4 or 5 inches in the circle or bend, 
then run parallel, having 5 strips of sheet zinc, an inch wide and 
B to 8 inches long, bent in their centre around the copper, with 
a rivet throuf,h them, close to the rod, as shown above ; these 
strips of zinc are to be placed into tuinljlors, the rod resting ou 
top of the tumblers, which are to be nearly filled witji rain wa- 
ter; then pour into each tumbler a little oil of vitriol, until yoo 
see that it begins to work a little on llie zinc. 



DR. CHASE 8 BECIP&b. 

The article to be plated is to be suspended upon the strtj 
of zinc, as represented upon the long end of the rod, wbicls 
is to be placed as before spoken of, in a jar containing the 
gold solution, instead of having it upon the stick spoken of 
when plating without the battery. And all the operations 
are the same as before described. 

• JEWELRY — Cleaning akd Polishtng Compound. — Aqri* 
ammonia 1 oz.; prepared chalk i oz.; mix, and keep corded. 

To use, for rings, or other smooth-surfaced jewelry, wet 
a bit of cloth with the compound, after having skaken it, 
and rub the article thoroughly ; then polish by rubbing 
with a silk handkerchief or piece of soft buck-skin. For 
articles which are rough-surfaced, use a suitable brush. It 
u applicable for gold, silver, brass, britannia, plated goods, &o.* 



FARRIERS' DEPARTMENT. 

CHOLIC — Cure for Horses or Persons. — Spirits of 
turpentine 3 ozs.; laudanum 1 oz.; mix, and give all for a 
dose, by putting it into a bottle with half pint of warm 
trater, which prevents injury to the throat. If relief is not 
obtained in one hour, repeat the dose, adding half an ounce 
of the best powdered aloes, well dissolved together, and 
have no uneasiness about the result. 

Symptoms. — The horse often lies down, suddenly rising again, 
with a spring; strikes his belly with his hind feet, stamps with 
his fore feet, and refuses every kind of food, &c. I suppose 
there is no medicine in use, for cholic, either in man or horse, 
equal to this mixtiu-e. 

For persons, a dose would be from 1 to 2 tea-spoons — children 
or weak persons, less, according to the urgency of the symptoms, 
to be taken in warm water or warm tea. 

I have been familiar with it for about five years, and kno-w 
that it has been successful in many cases — all where it has been 
used. Many think it the best cholic remedy in the world. 

2. Anothek.— Laudanum i oz.; sulphuric ether 1 oz. Mix, 
and for a horse, give all at a dose, in warm water as above. 
Dose for a person, as the first. 

A Mr. Thorpe, of whom I obtained this recipe, tells m« 
he has cured cholic in horses in every case with tho 6rs 



JFARRIEas' DEPARTMENT. 251 

dose, except one, and in that case by repeating the dose 
thirty miautes after the first. There is no question but 
what it is good, and some would prefer it to the turpentine 
J know it is valuable. 

BOTS — b'uRE Remedy — When a horse is attacked with 
bots, it may be known by the occasional nipping at their 
own sides, and by red pimples or projections on the innei 
surface of the upper lip, which may be seen plainly bj 
turning up the lip. 

FmsT, then, Like new milk 2 qts.; molasses 1 qt.; and give ths 
borse the "whole amount. Secokd, 15 minutes afterwards give 
verr warm sage tea 2 qts. Lastly, 30 minutes after the tea, you 
will giv*; of currier's oiJ i pt , (or enough to operate as physic.) 
Lara has been used, when the oil could not be obtained, with the 
same succes*. 

The cure will be complete, as the milk and molasses cause 
the bots to let go their hold, the tea puckers them up, and 
the oil carries them entirely away. If you have any doubt, 
one trial will satisfy you perfectly. In places where the 
currier's oil cannot be obtained, substitute the lard, adding 
three or four ounces of salt with it ; if no lard, dissolve a 
double handful of salt in warm water three pints, and give 
all. 

RING-BONE AND SPAVINS— To Ccre.— Egyptiacum and 
wine vinegar, of each 2 ozs.; water of pure ammonia, spirits of 
turpentine, and oil of origanum, of each 1 oz.; euphorbium and 
cantharides, of each i oz.; glass made' fine and sifted through 
gauze 1 dr.; put them in a bottle, and when used let them be 
well shaken. This is to be rubbed upon the bone enlargement 
with the hand or spatula, for half an hour each morning, for six 
or seven mornings in succession. Let the horse be so lied that 
he cauuot ^et bis mouth to the place for 3 or 4 hours, otherwise 
he will blister his mouth and blemish the part. Then let him 
run until the scab comes oft" of itself without scraping, which 
mjures the roots of the hair. Then repeat as before, and follow 
njt tor 3 or 4 times blistering, and all bone enlargements will be 
te absorbed, if not of more than a year or two's standing. 

It is also good for callous sinews, and strains of long 
standing, spavins, big-head, &;c., but if there are ring-bones 
or spavins of so long standing that this does not cause their 
c are, you will proceed as follows : 

2. Add to the above compound, corrosive sublimate in powder 
i oz.; oil of vitriol i oz.; and common salt i oz.; when it is agaia 



252 mi. OUASF/S REOtPES. 

ready.for use, always shaking well as you use either prepaiution. 
Now clip the hair and prick the bone or callous part as 
full of holes as you can with a pegging-awl, which, is just 
long enough to break through the callous part only Or a 
better way to break up this bony substance is to have a han- 
dle like a pegging-awl handle, with three or four awls in it, 
•ihen tap it in with a stick and give it a wrench at the ?ame 
time, which does the hurting part with more speed. Thii 
dona, batlie the part witli vinegar, until the blood stopa 
flowing ; then apply the double compound as at first, for four 
or five mornings only, repeating again if necessary; and 
ninety-nine out of every hundred ring-bones or spavins will 
be cured ; and most of them with only the first prcparatioa. 
The Egyptiacum is irfade as follows : 

3. Take verdigris and alum in powder, of each 1| ozs.; blue 
vitriol, powdf reef, i uz.; corrosive sublimate, in powder, ^ oz.; 
vinegar 21^ ozs.; honey i lb.; boil over a slow fire until of a 
proper consistence. When used it must be stirred up well, as a 
sediment wUl deposit of some of the articles. 

If the hair does not come out again after using the last 
blister, use the " Good Samaritan Liniment" freelj, on the 
part; but the first will never disturb the growth of hair. 
It is best always to commence this kind of treatment early 
in the season, so as to effect a cure before cold weather 
'tomes OD. 

4. O. B. Bangs' Cukb for Reng-Bone and Spavin. — Take 
of cantharides pulverized ; British oil ; oils of origanum and am- 
ber ; and spirits of turpentine, of each 1 oz.; olive oil ^ oz.; oil 
of vitriol 'i drs.; put all, except the vitriol, into alcohol, stir the 
mixture, then slowly add the vitriol and continue to stir unti? 
the mixture is complete, which is known by its ceasing to smoke. 
Bottle for use. 

Directions. — Tie a piece of sponge upon a stick and rub 
*bo preparation by this means, upon the spavin or ring-bone 
^s long as it is absorbed into the parts ; twenty-four hours 
after, grease well with lard; and in twenty-four hours more, 
rash off well with soap-suds. Mr. Bangs lives at Napoleon, 
Mich., and has sold books for me nearly two years. He 
Bays one application will generally be sufficient for spavins, 
but may need two ; ring-bones always require two or thr«« 
applications, three or four days apart, which prevents tlia 
load of hair; if not put on oftener than once in three oc 



farriers' DKrARTMENT. 253 

toTii days, the hair not coming out at ail. Said to cure 
wind-galls, splints, &c. He obtained five dollars for curing 
a neighbor's horse of ring-bone, with this preparation ; stop- 
ping all lameness, but not removing the luiup. 

5. In very bad cases of long standing, he thinks it pra* 
ferable to first apply the following : 

Take alcohol 1 pt. ; sal ammoniac, corrosive sublimate, and 
oil of spike, of each 1 oz. ; mix. 

Apply, by washing off and using lard afterwards, as above 
directed, washing also forty-eight hours after; and when 
dry, apply the first liniment once or iwice, according to di- 
rections. The object of this last is to opea the pores of the 
skin, and soften the lump. 

6. Ring-bone Remedy. — Pulverized cantharides, oils of spike, 
origanum, amber, cedar, Baibadoes tar, and British oil, of each 
2 ozs. ; oil of wormwood 1 oz. ; spirits of turpentine 4 ozs. ; 
common potash ^ oz. ; nitric acid 6 ozs. ; and oil of vitriol (sul- 
phuric acid) 4 ozs. ; lard 3 lbs. 

Directions. — Melt the lard and slowly add the acids, 
Btir well and add the others, stirring until cold. Clip off 
the hair and apply by rubbing and heating in j in 
about three days or when it is done running, wash off 
with suds and apply again. In old cases it may take three 
or four weeks, but in recent cases two or three applications 
have cured. It has cured long standing cases. 

7. Rawson's Ring-bone and Spavin Cure.— Venice turpen- 
tine and Spanish-flies, of each 2 ozs. ; euphorbium and aqua 
ammonia, of each 1 oz. ; red precipitate i oz. ; corrosive subli- 
mate i oz. ; lard H lbs. Pulverize all and put into the lard 
simmer slowly over coals, not scorch or burn, and pour off free 
of sediment. 

Directions. — For ring-bones, cut off the hair and rub 
the ointment well into the lumps once in forty-eight hours. 
For spavins, opce in twenty-four hours for three mornings, 
has perfectly cured them. Wash well, each application, with 
euds, rubbin/!^ over the place with a smooth stick to sqeez 
out a thick yellow matter. 

Mr. Rawaon, of Rawsonville, Mich., has cured some ex- 
ceedingly ijad cases of ring-bones, one as thick as a man' . 
arm ; and spavins as unpromising in size. If properly 
cooked jt will foam like boilins' sugar. 



Ar)4 DE. chase's recipes. 

8. IJTDiAi^ Method.— Bind a toad upon it ; or two, if one duel 
not cover it, and keep it on from 8 to 10 days. 

An Indian cured a horse in thia way, near St. Louis, foi 
which he coveted, and recieved a rifle. The cure proved 
permanent. 

9. Bone-Spavins— Fkench Paste— $300 Recipe. — Corrosive 
•ublimate, quicksilver, and iodine, of each 1 oz. ; with lard only 
BuflBcient to form a paste. 

Directions. — Rub the quicksilver and iodine together, 
then adding the sublimate and finally the lard, rubbing 
cnoroughly. 

Shave oflF the hair the size of the bone enlargement; 
then grease all around it, but not where the hair is shaved 
oflf; this prevents the action of the medicine, only upon the 
spavin ; now rub in as much of the paste as will lie on a 
three cent piece only, each morning for four mornings only ; 
in from seven to eight days the whole spavin will come out ; 
then wash out the wound with suds, soaking well, for an 
hour or two, which removes the poisonous effects of the 
uedicine and facilitates the healing, which will be done by 
ny of the healing salves ; but I would prefer the green 
ointment to aay other in this case. 

Mr. Andrews, late of Detroit, who during his life, knew 
a good horse, and also desired to know how to take good 
care of them, did not hesitate to pay three hundred dollars 
for this recipe after seeing what it would do ; he removed 
a spavin from a mare's leg with it, and she afterwards won 
him more than the expense. 

10. Bone-Spavins — Norwegian Cure. — S. B. Mar- 
shall, the Champion Horse-Shoer, and Farrier, of White 
Pigeon, Mich., obtained this plan of an old Norwegian Far- 
rier, and also his plan of curing poll-evil, which see, and 
assures me that he has been very successful with them. I 
obtained them of him for the purpose of publication, and 
sincerely think I can recommend them to all who need 
them : 

Take dog's grease i pt.; best oil ot origanum H ozs ; pnlver 
Ized cantharides i oz. Mix, and apply each momifig, for three 
mornings ; heatintc it in with a hot iron each time ; then skip 3 
mornings, and app^y again, as before, until it has been applied 9 
times ; after which wait about 10 days, and if it is not aU gvuia, 
go over again in the same way 



FAKELEBS' DEPARTMENT. 25.S 

He says it does not remove the hair, but that it cures the 
largest and worst cases. He gives a test for pood oil of 
origanum, saying that much of it is reduced with turpen- 
tine ; and if so reduced, that it will spread on the skin, like 
turpentine ; but if good, that it does not spread on the skin, 
but stands, like other oil, where a drop is put on. I am 
not certain about the genuineness of this test ; yet I find 
quite a difference in the spreading of the oils ; for that 
which is known to contain turpentine spreads fast and 
freely; whilst that which is believed to be pure, spreads 
very slowly, yet does finally spread. The pure is of a dark 
wine color, whilst the poor is of a lighter shade, and some 
what cloudy. 

11. Spavtn Liniment. — Oils of spike, origanum, cedar, Brit- 
wh and spirits of turpentine, of each 1 oz. ; Spanish-flies, pul- 
verized i oz. 

Apply once in six to nine days only — removes the lump 
of spavins, splints, curbs, &c., if of recent occurrence ; and 
tlie man of whom I obtained it, says he has scattered poll- 
evils before breaking out, with cedar oil, alone. 

12. Another. — Alcohol and spirits of turpentine, of each i pt. ; 
gum camphor, laudanum, and oil of cedar, of each 1 oz. ; oila 
of hemlock and rhodium and balsam of fir, of each i oz. ; iodine 
1 dr. ; mix. 

Apply night and morning, first washing clean and rub- 
bing dry with a sponge ; then rub the liniment into the 
spavin with the hand. It causes a gummy substance to 
ooze out, without injury to the hair — has cured ring-bones, 
also removing the lumps in recent cases. It cured the 
lameness in a c&se of three years standing. 

1-3 2r:.DfT AND Spavin Liniment. — Take a large mouthed 
bctlie and put inio it «il of origanum 6 ozs. ; gum camphor 2 
ozs. ; mercivrial oiatment 2 ozs. ; iodine ointment 1 oz. ; melt by 
putting the bottle into a kettle of hot water. 

Apply it to bone-spavins or splints twice daily, for four 
or five days. Th« lameness will trouble you no more. I 
have had men cure their horses with this liniment and re- 
mark that this recipe alone was worth more than the price 
of the book, 

14. Bog-Spavin and Wind-Gall Ointment, also good fob 
CuKBS, Splints, Hinq-bones, and Bone-Spavin. — Take pulver- 
Ued cantharides 1 oz. ; mercurial ointment 2 ozs. ; tincture of 



256 DR. ohase's recipes. 

iodine IJ ozs. ; spirits of turpentine 2 ozs. ; corroBivo sublimate 
li drs. ; lard 1 lb. 

!Mix well, and wlien desired to apply, first cut oflf the 
hair, wash well and anoint, rubbing it in with the hand 
or glove, if preferred. Two days after, grease the part with 
lard, and in two days more, wash oflF and apply the oint- 
ment again. Repeat the process every week, as long aa 
necessary. 

SWEENY — LrNTMENT. — Alcohol and spirits of turpentine, of 
«ach 8 ozs. ; camphor gum, pulverized cantharides, and caps! 
cum, of each 1 oz. ; oil of spike 3 ozs. Mix. 

Perhaps the best plan is to tincture the capsicum first 
and use the tincture instead of the powder, by which means 
you are free of sediment ; bathe this liniment in with a hot 
iron. The first case has yet to be found where it has not 
cured this disease when faithfully followed. 

2. Another. — Sal-ammoniac 2 ozs. ; corrosive sublimate 1 oz. ; 
alcohol 1 qt. ; water 1 qt., pulverize and mix. 

This last has cured many cases of sweeny, and also kid- 
ney complaints, 'known by a weakness in the back, of horses 
or cattle. Bathe the loins with it ; and give one to two 
tsible-spoons at a dose, daily. 

rOLL-EVIL AND FISTULA— PosixrvE Cure.— Common 
potash i oz. ; extract of belladona i dr. ; gum arable i os. Dis- 
Bolve the gum in as little water as practicable; then having pul- 
verized the potash, unless it is moist, mix the gum water with it 
and it will soon dissolve ; then mix in the extract and it is ready 
to use ; and it can be used without the belladona, but it is more 
painful without it, and does not have quite as good an effect. 

Directions. — The best plan to get this into the pipes is 
by means of a small syringe, after having cleanseo the soro 
with soap-suds ; repeat once in two days, until all the ca*- 
lous pipes and hard fibrous base around the poll-evil or fis- 
tula, is completely destroyed. Mr. Curtis, a merchant of 
Wheaton, 111., cured a poll-evil with this preparation, by 
only a single application, as the mare estrayed and was not 
found for two months — then completely sound ; but it will 
generally require two or three applications. 

This will destroy corns and warts, by putting a little of 
it upon the wart or corn, letting it remain from five to t«n 
minutes, then wash off and apply oil or vinegar, not squeea- 
ing them out, but letting nature remove them. 



rAa»&IS&8' DBPA&TMKNT. 257 

9. Potash, .x» Make.— It rou cannot buy the potash, called 
^or in the Iju.^ recipe, you oin make it by leachiiig best wood 
ashes and boiling down the lye to what is called black salts, and 
continuing the heat in a thick kettle until they are melted; th<s 
beat burn^ out the black impurities and leaves a whitish'gra/ 
lubntance, called potash. 

This potash, pulverized and put into all the rat holes 
tbout the cellars, causes them to leave in double quick time, 
w mentioned in the " Rat Exterminator." The black salta 
will do about as well for rats, but is not quite so strong. 
They get their feet into it, which causes a biting worse than 
their own, and they leave without further ceremony. 

Potash making in timbered lands is carried on very ex- 
tensively ; using the thick, heavy potash-kettle to boil and 
melt in ; then dipping it out iato three and five pail iron- 
kettles to cool. 

3. Poll-Evil and Fistula — Norwegian Cuke. — Cover the 
head and neck witJi two or three blankets; have a pan or kettle 
of the best warm cider vinegar; holding it under the blankets; 
then steam the parts by putting hot stones, brick, or iron, into 
the vinegar, and continue the operation until the horse sweat 
freely; doing this 3 morniuga and skipping <J, until 9 steaming- 
have been accomplished. 

Mr. Marshall says, the pipes, by this time, will seem to 
have raised up and become loose, except the lower end, 
which holds upon the bone or tendons, like a sucker's 
mouth ; the apparent rising being caused by the going down 
of the swelling in the parts ; now tie a skein of silk around 
the pipes and pull them out ; washing the parts with weak 
copperas water until the sore heals up and all is well. He 
told me that he cured, in this way, a horse which had inter- 
fered until a pipe had formed at the place of interference, 
upon the leg, that when drawn out was as long as his linger. 
See the " Norwegian Cure for Bone-Spavin." 

4. Another. — Rock salt and blue vitriol, of each 1 oz. , cop- 
peras 1^ oz. ; pulverize all finely and mix well. 

Fill a goose-quill with the powder and push it to the hot 
torn of the pipe, having a stick in the top of the quill, so 
tnat you can push the powder out of the quill, leaving it 
at the bottom of the pipe ; repeat again in about four days, 
and in two or three days from that time you can take hold 
df the pipe and remove it, without trouble. 
9 



25'' 



T)R. CnARK's^BECirES 



5. Poix-Erih, TO Scatter.— Take a quantity of mandrake 
•■oot, mash, and boil it ; strain and boil down until rather thick ; 
then form an ointment by simmering it Avith sufficient lard for 
that purpose. 

Anoint the swelling oucc a day, for several days, unti) 
well. It has cured them after they were broken out, by 
putting it into the pipes a few times, also anointing around 
the sore. 

(>. Anotheu.— Poll-evils and Fistulas have been cured lij 
pushing a piece of lunar causii<-. into tha pipe, tiien filling the 
hole with currier's oil. Or : 

7. Another. — Corrosive subli lale the size of a common beau-, 
pulverized and wrapped in tissue paper, and pressed to the bot- 
tom of the ])i))es, leaving it in eight days, tlien take out, and 
applying the blue ointment, (kept by druggists,) has cured them. 
Or: 

8. Anotiter. — Arsenic, the Hize of a pea, treated in the same 
way, has cured tlie same disease. But if the Norwegian plan 
wiu work as recommended, it is certainly the best ot all. 

9. AxoTUEU. — Oil of vitriol put into the pipes has cured many 
poll-evils. 

I found one man, also, who had cured poll-evil by placing 
barrel of water about fifteen feet high, on a platform, upon 
two trees — aumiuistering a shower bath daily upon the sore ; 
drawing the water by a faucet, through a diuner horn placed 
little end down ; tying the horse so as to keep him in posi- 
tion until the water all runs out Fifteen or twenty baths 
cured him, but ifbroke out again the next season, when a 
few more baths made a final cure. 

LOOSENESS OR SCOUTJING IN HORSES OR CATTLE— 
In Use ovtsk Seventy Yeaus. — Tormentil root, powdered. 
Dose lor a horse or cow 1 to 1 J <>z. It may be stiiTed in 1 pt. of 
milk and given, or it may be sloei^ed in li pts. of milk then given 
from y to 5 limes daily until cured. 

It has proved valuable also for persons. Dose for a per- 
son would be from one-half to one tea-spoon steeped in milk j 
but if used for persons I should recommend that half ad 
much rhubarb be combined with it. 

An English gentleman from whom it was obtained, had 
been familiar with its use nearly eighty years, and neve? 
knew a failure, if taken in any kind of seasonable time. 
The tormentil, or scptfoil, is an European plant, and very 46- 
tringent. 



farriers' department 269 

^ Reef bones foji Scoitus. — Burn the bones Uiorougbly and 
puJvvrizo fine]}'' ; liicn give 1 tablc-sptMJii iii some dry Iced, 3 
'Uiioa daily, lailil clieckcd. 

This prepamtion has thirty yoars experience of an Amer- 
Icau gentleman, ue;ir Feutunvillo, Mich., to reeouiuieud it to 
gemcral favor. 

i). Scouns AST> PiN-WoKMs OK lIousKS AND Cattle. — Wl.ite 
ttt;h baiK. biirut U) asiies aud luade iulo rather -^ stnjng i3'e ; then 
mix i pt. of it with warm water 1 i>t., and give ail, 2 or 3 times 
daily. 

^V!lenever it becomes certain that a horse or cow ia 
troul)led witii pin-worm.s, by their pa.ssiug from the bowels, 
it i« best to administer the above, as they arc believed to be 
the cause, generally, of scours, and this remedy carries off 
the worms, thus curing the inflammation by removing the 
cause. ' 

liOIiSE OINTMENT— De Gray or Sloan's.— Rosin 4 ozs. ; 

boes-wax 4 ozs. ; lard 8 ozs. ; honey 2 ozs. Idelt these articles 
slovviy, gently bringing to ;i boil ; and as it begins to boil, re- 
move I'rom the fire and slowly add a little less than a i)int of 
Bpiriis of tnrpeniine, stirring all the time this is being added, and 
stir until cool. 

This is an extraordinary ointment for bruises, in flesh or 
hoof, broken knees, galled backs, bites, cracked heels, &c,, 
&c. ; or when a horse is gelded, to heal and keep away flies, 
[t is excellent to take fire out of burns or scalds in human 
flesh also. 

CONDITION POWDERS— Said to mo St. John's.— Fenu 
greek, cream of tjirtar, gentian, sulj)hur, saltpetre rosin, black 
aniiiao'ij-, and ginger, e([ual quaiUities of each, say 1 oz. ; all to 
be fiiTc'y pulverized ; cayenne, also fine, half the fpiautiiy of any 
one ot t!;e others, say ^ oz. Mix thorouglily? 

It is use<l in yellow water, hide-bound, coughs, colds, dis- 
temper, and all other diseases where condition powders are 
generally administered. They carry off gr(«s huniors ami 
purify the blood. DosK — In ordinary cases give two tea 
spoons once a day, in ^'^od. In extreme cases give it twio 
daily. If these do not give as good satisfaction as St. 
John's or any other condition pov/der that costs more than 
double what it does to make this, then I will acknowledge 
that travel and study are of no account in obtaining iafor- 
matioa. 



2W Dft. CHASK's RKrjfKS 

2. Cathartic Condition Powder.— Garahoge, alum, salt 
petre, rosin, copperas, ginger, aioes, gum-myrrh, salts, and sail, 
and if the liorse is in a very low contiition, put in wormwood, 
all the same quantities, viz., 1 oz. each. Dose — One taV.> spoon 
in brin twice daily ; not giving any other grain for a fe*» day» ; 
then once a day with oats and other good feed. 

This last is more applicable for old worn-down horsea 
■which need cleaning out and starting again into new life j 
*nd in such cases, just the thing to be desired. 

HORSE LINIMENTS— For Stiff-Neck from Polv 
Evils. — Alcohol one pint; oil of cedar, origanum, and 
gum-camphor, of each two ounces; oil of amber one ounce; 
ase freely. 

2. ExGUsn Stable Lxnimknt — Vert Strnq. — Oil of spike 
aqua ammonia, and oil of turpentine, of each 2 ozs. ; sweet oil 
and oil of amber, of each l^ozs. ; oil of origanum 1 oz. Mix. 

Call this good for any thing, and always keep it in the 
stable a.s a strong liniment; the Englishman's favorite for 
poll-evils, ring-bones, and all old lameness, inflammations, 
&c. ; if much inflammation, however, it will fetch the hair, 
but not destroy it. 

3. Nerve and Bone Liniment. — Take beef's gall l qt. ; alco- 
hol 1 pt. ; volatile liniment 1 lb. ; spirits of turpentine 1 lb. ; oil 
of origanum 4 ozs. ; aqua ammonia 4 ozs. ; tincture of cayenne 
i pt. ; oil of amber 3 ozs. ; tincture of Spanish-flies 6 ozs. ; mix. 

Uses too well known to need description. Thi« is more 
particularly applicable to horse flesh. 

4. Liniment for One- Shilling a Quart.— Best vinegar 3 
qls. ; saltpetre, pulverized ^ lb. ; mix and set in a w»rm place, 
until dissolved. 

It will be found valuable for spavins, sprains strains, 
bruises, old swellings, &c. 

BROKEN LIMBS — Treatment, Instead of Inhfhaiilt 
Shooting the Horse. — In the greater number of fractures it is 
only necessary to partially sling the horse by means of a broad 
piece of sail or other strong cloth, (as represented in the fl^re,) 
placed under the animal's belly, furnished with two breeci\ins9 
and two breast-girths, and by means of ropes and pulley* at- 
tached to a cross beam above, he is elevated or lowered, as may 
be required. 

It would seldom be necessary to raise them entirely oil 
of their feet, as they will be more quiet, generailf, when 



rARRnCRS' DKPARTMENT. 



261 



allowed to touch the grouud or floor. The head-stall should 
be padded, and ropes re;iehin<r each way to the stall, ai well 
as forward. Many horses will plunge about for a time, but 
eoon quiet down, with an occasional exception ; when they 
become quiet, set the bone, splint it well, padding the splinta 
with batting, securing carefully, then keep wet with cold 
water, as long as the least inflammation is present, using 
light food, and a little water at a time, but may be giveu 
often. 

The use of the different buckles and straps will be easilj 
umderstood. 




SUPPORTING APPARATUS IN LAMENESS OF HORSES. 

If he is very restive, other ropes can be attached to the 
corner rings, which are there for that purpose, and will 
afford much additional relief to the horse. 

I knew a horse's tliigh to crumble upon the race-course., 
without apparent cause, which lost him the stake he would 
have easily won; he was hauled miles upon a sled, slung, 
and cured by his humane owner. Then let every fair 
means be tried, before you consent to take the life, even of 
a broken-legged horse- 



262 DR. CllA.SK'S UECU'BS. 

WOUND BALSAM— FoK lIoiisE oil llmiAS Fi,Ksn.— Gua 
benzoin, in powiier, (J ozs.; balbam ol' UjIu, in jxjwucr, 8 ozs.; 
gum slorux 2 ozs.; ■liiinldnct'iisc, iu powder, 2 ozs.; gum myrrh, 
m powder, 2 ozs.; Sucotoriue aloes, in powder, cl ozs.; alcohol 1 
gal. JSlix them all Ujgether and put tlieni in a digester, and give 
them a gentle heat for three or four days ; then strain. 

A better medicine can hardly be found in the Materia 
Medka for healing fresh wounds in every part of the body, 

!)artieularly those on the tendons or joint.s. It is frecjueutr 
y given internally along with other articles, to great ad- 
vantage in all colds, flatulency, and in other debilities of 
the stomach and intestines. Every gentleman, or farmer, 
ought to keep this medicine ready prepared in his house, as 
a family medicine, for all cuts, or recent wounds, either . 
among his cattle or any of his family. Thirty or forty 
drops, on a lump of sugar, may be taken at any time, for 
flatulency, or pain at the stomach; and in old age, where 
Hature rctjuires stimulation. — Every Man His Own Farner. 

GREASE-IIEEL AND C0M3I0N SCRATCHES.— To Curk. 
— Lye made from wood ashes, and boil white-oak bark in it un- 
til it is quite strong, both in lye and bark ooze ; when it is cold, 
H is reaiiy lor use. 

First wash off the horse's legs with dish-water or castile 
Boap J and when dry, apply the ooze with a swab upon a 
Stick which is sufllciently long to keep out of his reach, aa 
he will tear around like a wild horse, but you must wet all 
??ell once a day, until you see the places are drying up. 
The grease-heel may be known from the common scratcnes 
by the deep cracks, which do not appear in the common 
kind. Of course this will fetch off the hair, but the disease 
has been known to fetch off the hoof j then to bring on the 
hair again, use salve made by stewing sweet elder bark in 
old bacon ; then form the salve by adding a little rosin ac- 
cording to the amount of oil when stewed, about a quarter 
of a pound to each pound of oil. 

2. ANOxmiK. — Verdigris i oz.; whisky 1 pt., are highly recent 
mended fur grease heel 

3. Common Scratcites. — Use sweet oil 6 oz.; borax 2 oz.; sugai 
of lead 2 oz.; mix, and apply twice daily, after wa,-iiiing off with 
dish-water, and giving time to allow the legs to dry. 

Those plans have been used for years, by Geo. Cleniin, 
of Logansport, Indiana, and he assured me that the wore! 
oases will be cured, of either disease, in a very few days 



fA&RIERS' DEPARTMENT. 

4. Another. — Copperas and chamber-lye are known to be 

good for common scratches, applied, as the last, after washing 
with dish-water and drying. This last can be tried first, as it is 
easily obtained, and if it does not succeed you ■will not fail witli 
the other. 

SADDLE AND HARNESS GALLS— Bruises, Abkasioks, 
(fee. — Remedy. — White lead and linseed oil mixed as for paint, i» 
Almost invaluable in abrasions, or galls from the saddle or col- 
lar, or from any other cause, it will speedily aid the pai't in heal- 
ing. 

AppJiftd with a brush to the leg of a horse, the outer 
coating of liair and skin of which was torn off, caused it to 
heal and kave no scar. It is good for scratches and all 
Bores upon horses, or other animals, and equally good for 
men. It forms an air-tight coating, and soothes pain. Every 
farmer should keep a pot and brush ready for use. White 
lead is the carbonate of the metal, and when pure is very 
white. That having a greyish tint is impure, being gene- 
rally adulterated. For use as a paint, a lead color is pfo- 
duccd by adding lamp-black, and a drab or stone color, by 
adding burned umber 

In applying it for scratches, first wash them clean with 
soap and water, then apply. Some persons prefer lamp oil. 
If that is used, you will mix both together until the oil as. 
Bumes a light straw color. "When the horse comes in at 
night, his legs should be washed perfectly clean and rubbed 
perfectly dry. Then apply the mixture, rubbing it well tf» 
the skin. Two or three applications are sufficient to effect 
a perfect cure, no matter how bad. the case may be. — Cor- 
respondence of the Country Gentleman. 

To give confidence in this, I would say that a lady, at 
Lafayette, Ind., told me she cured herself of salt-rheum 
with white-lead and sweet oil only. 

2. Another. — Alcohol and extract of lead, of each 2 ozs ; 
fioft water 4 ozs. ; spirits of sal-ammoniac 1 oz. ; white copperai 
i oz. Mix all and shake as used. 

" Knowlson's Complete Farrier" speaks very highly of 
this last preparation, which can be tried, should the finrt 
above fail. 

8. Sores from Chafing op the Bits. — Chloroform and stii- 
phuric ether, equal parts of each. Keep closely corked. 

SpoDtre oflF the mouth with water every time the bits an 



264 »%. OHABR'B BJEOIPKfl. 

taken out; then wet well with the mixture. It will also 
he found valuable to remove soreness from any cause, on 
man or horse. 

4. Another. — White ashes and spirits of turpentine, of each 
1^ table-spoons ; black pepper, ground, 1 table-spoon ; lard to 
make 1 pt. of all, mix well and anoint 

HEAVES. — Great Relief— Heaves, the common name 
for any difficulty in the breathing of a horse, is susceptible 
of great alleviation by attention to the character and quau 
tity of food to be eaten by the animal, as every onr 
knows. If a horse suffering from this disease, is allowed to 
distend his stomach at his pleasure, with dry food entirely, 
and then to drink cold water, as much as he can hold, he js 
nearly worthless. But if his food be moistened, and he b'o 
allowed to drink a moderate quantity only at a time, the 
disease is much less troublesome. 

A still farther alleviation may be obtained from the use of bal- 
sam of fir and balsam of copaiba 4 ozs. each ; and mix with 
calcined magnesia sufficiently thick to make it iulo balls ; give 
a middling sized ball, night and morniug for a week or 10 days 
This gives good satisfaction, and is extensively sold by Eberbach 
& Co., druggists of this city. 

2. Another. — An old Farrier assures me that lobelia 
one tea-spoon, once a day, in his feed, for a week, and then 
once a week ; that you can hardly tell whether a horse ever 
had the heaves or not. 

3. Another. — H. Sisson, another Farrier, gives me a 
cure which somewhat resembles the ball first given under 
this head, and thus each one supports the other. 

He takes calcined magnesia, balsam of fir, and balsam of 
eopaiba, of each 1 oz. ; spirits of turpentine 2 ozs. ; and puts 
them all into 1 pt. of best cider vinegar, and gives for a dose 1 
table-spoon in his feed, once a day, for a week ; then every other 
day for 2 or 3 months. 

The hoi"SA will cough more at first, but iooser and looser 
until cured. Wet his hay with brine, and als* wot hia 
feed. 

4 Another. — Mr Bangs, highly recommends the following : 
Lobelia, wild turnip, elecampane and skunk cabbage, equal 
parts of each. Make into balls of common size, and give one 
for a dose, or make a tincture, by putting 4 ozs. of the mixture 
into 2 qts. of spirits ; and after a week put 2 table-apocns into 
their feed, once a dar foi h mouth or two- 



l-ARRTER^' DEPAaTMENT. 866 

%. Another. — Oyster e)u!lls 1 peck ; burn into lime and pul- 
verize; mix a single handful of it -svith ^ gill cf alcohol, then 
inix it with the ouU each inoniing until all given. 

This for bcllowa-heavcs has done very much good. Horse- 
radish grated and put in with the feed has benefited. Cab- 
bage, as common feed, is good to relieve, or any juicy food, 
like pumpkins, &c., &;c., will be found to relieve very jnuch. 
Farmers who have their horses always at home, can keep 
them comfortable with some of the foregoing directions j 
but broken-winded horses might as well be knocked in the 
head as to attempt to travel with them, expecting any satisfao- 
tion to horse or driver. 

6. Another. — A correspondent of the Country Gentle- 
man says that " heaves may be greatly alleviated by feed- 
ing raw fat pol'k. 

" Commence with a piece of pork, say a cubic inch, chopped 
very fine, and mixed with the wetted grain or cut feed, twice a 
day for two or three days. Then from day to day increase the 
quantity and cut less tine, until there is given with each feed 
such a slice as usually by a farmer's wife is cut for frying — nearly 
as large as your hand, cut into tifteen or twenty pieces. 

" Continue this for two weeks, and the horse is capable of 
any ordinary work with mt distress, and without showing the 
heaves. I have experience and observation for the past ten 
years as proof of the above." — [J. , of Burlington, Vt. 

DISTEMPER— To Distinguish and Cure.— If it 
18 thought that a horse hap the distemper, and you do not 
feel certain, wet up bran with rather strong weak lye — if 
not too strong they will eat it greedily ; if they have the 
distemper, a free discharge from the nostrils and a conse- 
quent cure will be the result, if continued a few days ; but 
il only a cold, with swellings of the glands, no change will 
be discovered. 

SHOEING HORSES— For Winter Travel.— N. P. 
Wilis, of the Home Journal, in one of his recent Idlewild 
letters, says: 

" You have discovered, of course, that you cannot have unin- 
terrupted winter riding with a horse shod in the ordinary way. 
The sharp points of the frozen mud will wound the frog of the 
foot ; and with snow on the ground, the hollow hoof soon col- 
lects A hard ball, which makes the footing very ineecure. But 



266 DR. OHABE's BliOIFEfl. 

these evils are remedied by a piece of sole leather nailed on ua- 
der the shoe— a protection to the hoof wliich makes a surpiiainj 
dillcreiice in tho confidence and 8ure-fook.-aness of the animar» 
step." 

FOUNDER— REMEi>T.— Draw about 1 gal. of blood from th« 
neck; then drench the K')rse with linstied-oii 1 qt.; now rub th« 
fore legs, long and well, with water as hot as can be borne with- 
out scalding. 

This remedy entirely cured a horse which had been 
foundered on wheat, two days before tlie treatment began. 

PHYSIC— Bam. fou IIouses.— Bai-badoes aloes from 4 to 5, 
or 6 drs., (according to tlie size and strength of the horse); tar 
trale of potassia 1 dr.; ginger and castile soap, of each 2 drs.; oL 
of anise <or peppermint 20 drops ; pulverize, and make all inta 
one ball with thick giun solution. 

Before giving a horse physic, he should be prepared foj 
it by feeding scalded bran, in place of oats, for two days at 
least, giving also water which has the chill taken off, and 
continue this feed and drink, during it.^ operation. If it 
Bhould not operate in forty-eight hours, repeat Ixalf the dose. 

2. PiiYSio FOii Cattle. — For cattle, take half only of the 
dose, above, for a horse, and add to it glauber salts 8 ozs.; dis- 
solve all in gruel 1 qt., and give as a drench ; for cattle are not 
easily managed in giving balls, neither is their construction 
ad:ii)ted to dry medicine. 

There is not the need of preparation for cattle, generally, 
an for horses, from the fact of their not being kept up to 
grain, if they are, however, let the same precautions be ob- 
served as in " Physic Ball for Horses." 

HOOF- AIL IN SHEEP— Sure Remedy.— Muriatic acid ana 
Sutter of antimony, of each 2 oz.; white vitriol, pulverized, 1 oz. 
Mix. 

Directions. — Lift the foot and drop a little of it upon 
the bottom. It will need to be applied only once or twice 
a week — as often only as they limp, which shows that the 
fool is becoming tender again. It kills the old hoof, and a 
ne\» one soon takes its place. Have no fears about tJie re- 
sult ; apply the medicine as often as indicated, and all is 
eaf'c. 

It has proved valuable in growing off horse's boofSf wheo 
aniL'ired. or contraction made it necessary. 

£1 fE WATER— For JIorses and Cattle.— Alcohol \ ts^M- 
spoon ; extract of lead 1 tea-spoon ; rain water i pt 



/ARRIKRS' DEPARTMENT. 267 

Wasli tliG eye freely, two or three times daily. But I 
f)refer the "Eye Water" a§ prepared for persons ; and alloTV 
me here to say that what is good for man, in the line of 
medicine, is good for a horse, by increasing the dose to cor 
respond. 

TA^MINGr — Principles Applied to Wn.D and Yr- 
cious Horses. — I have thought, in closing up this D* 
partment, that I could not devote a page to a better pui 
pose than to the so-called secret of taming. For it is a 
secret, but it lies in a different point from what is generally 
believed, which I will attempt to show. 

Several persons are advertising books for taming wild 
horses, and other persons fire going about teaching the art 
to classes in private. Probably the pupils get their money's 
worth. But, why do so many fail ? The whole secret lies 
ill this, that mani/ persons can never handle ahorse, with all 
the instruction in the icorld — it is not in them. They cannot 
establish a sympathy between themselves and the horse, 
and if they become horse trainers, they have only mistaken 
their calling, and the money they laid out is perhaps aa 
cheap a way as they could be taught their mistake. 

To be a succesx/id horse trainer, he must have a sympo:' 
ihi/ with the horse, and a personal power of control. This 
reminds us of an old gentleman's remarks on the subject 
of sweeny. He said : " There were a great many recipes 
of penetrating oils, applications, etc., but the great secret 
was in faith," without which no person will pensevcro a 
sufficient length of timo'with either of them. This holds 
good in all diseases, as well as in handling or taming a 
horse. 

The mystery or secret, then, is in knowing how, and hav- 
ing the stamina (power) to do it. 

As for recipes, they consist in using the horse-castor or 
wart, which grows upon the inside of the leg, grated fine, 
oil of cumin, and oil of rhodium, kept separate in air-tight 
Dottles ; these all possess peculiar properties for attracting 
ajd subduing animals. 

•' Hub a little oil of cumin upon your hand, and approach 
the horse in the field, on the windward side, so that he can 
smell the cumin. The horse will let you come up to hin 
without trouble. 



*^^^ DK. OHASS'a RSCIPKS 

'*■ Ivrimediately rub your hand gently on the horse's nose^ 
gettiu,^ a little of the oil on it. You can then lead him 
any whore. Give him a little of the castor on a piece of 
loaf-sugar, apple, or potato. 

" Put eight drops of the oil of rhodium into a lady't 
thimble. Take the thimble between the thumb and mid- 
dle fiugei of your right hand, with the fore-finger stopping 
the mouth of the thimble to prevent the oil from running 
out whilst you are opening the mouth of thp horse. 

" As soou as you have opened the horse's mouth, tip th< 
thimble over upon his tongue, and he is your servant. He 
will follow you like a pet dog. Very doubtful. — Author. 

" Hide feailejs and promptly, with your knee pressed to 
the side of the horse, and your toes turned in and heels out j 
then you will always be on the alert for a shy or sheer from 
the horse, and he can never throw you. 

" If you want to teach him to lie down, stand on his nigh 
or left side ; have a couple of leather straps, about six feet 
long ; string up his left leg with one of them around his 
neck ; strap the other end of it over his shoulders ; hold it 
in your hand, and wLea you are ready, tell him to lie down, 
at the same time gently, Crmly, and steadily puMing on the 
strap, touching him lightly with a switch. The horse will 
immediately lie down. Do this a few times, and you can 
make him lie down without the straps. 

" He is now your pupil and friend. You can teach him 
anything, only be kind to him — be gentle. Love him and 
he will luvo you. Feed him before you do yourself. Shel- 
tei him well, groom him yuurseli', keep him clean, and at 
night always give him a good bed." 

It will be perceived, by reference to vho following 
item IVom Bell's Li/e, that the secret for taming horses, by 
which Mr. llarey has made himself so rich and famous, 
instead of being a divination of his own, was probably ob- 
tained by him through some accidental contact with an old 
rohune, which had long disappeared from observation, and 
hardly held a place in public libraries : 

A correspondent sends us the following : " In the Gen- 
tleman's Farriery, by Bartlett. (sixth edition) publish«d in 
1702, (one hundred years ago,) page 293, is the followJog: 
' The method proposed by Dr. lirackcn ifl to tie up on« oi 



CABINET MAKERS DEPARTMENT. 260 

tlif. fore feet close, and to fasten a cord or small rope about the 
other fetlock, bringing the end ot it over the horse's shoul- 
dci8 ; then }et him be hit or kicked with your foot behind that 
knee, at the i^aiue time pulling his nose down strongly to the 
manger You will bring him upon his knees, where ho 
should be held till he is tired which cannot be long, but if he 
does not lie down soon, let hnn be thrust sidewaj's against his 
quarters, to throw him over; by forcing him down several 
times in this way, you may teach him to lie down, at the same 
words you first used for that purpose " You will see that Mr. 
Kiirey '8 system is exactly the same. 

From the foregoing it will be seen that he obtained the 
knowledge, and naturally possessing the fivvaucs^, fearless en- 
ergy, and muscle sufficient to back the whole, he has become 
the horse tamer of the world. 

Without all these qualifications no one need undertake the 
business, no matter how often he pays five dollars for recipes 
or instructions. 



CABINET ]»AKER$»' DEPARTHIENT. 

POLISH— Fou New FuRKiTUKE.— Alcohol 98 per cent. 1 
pt. ; gums copal and shellac, of each 1 oz. ; dragon's blood J^ 
oz. Mix and dissolve by setting in a wann place. 

Apply with a sponge (it is best in the sun or a warm room) 
about three coats, one directly alter the other as fast as dry, 
say fifteen to twenty minutes apart ; then have a small bunch 
of cotton batting tied up in a piece of woolen ; wet this in al- 
cohol and rub over the surface well ; now go over the surface 
with a piece of tallow, then dust on rotten stone from a wool- 
en bag and rub it with, Avhat is often called, the heel of the 
hand ; now wipe it off with cotton cloth, and the more you 
rub with this last cloth, the better will be the polish. 

Although this professes to be for new work, it does not 
hurt the looks of old, not the least bit ; try it all who want 
their furniture to show a gloss and answer in place of looking- 
glasses, i 

J 



§70 



DR. CHASK 8 EECIPES. 



If soldiers will try it oa tlieir gun-stocks, they will find 
it just the thing desired, 

2. Polish fou Reviving Old Furniture, Equal to tpui 
"Brother Jonathan."— Tiike alcohol 1^ ozs.; spirits of salU 
(muriatic acid) i oz. ; iinseed-oil 8 ozs.; best vinegar i pt.; and 
butter of antimony 1^ ozs.; mix, putting in the vinegar last. 

It is an excellent reviver, making furniture look nearly 
equal to new, and really giving a polish to now work, alwaya 
shaking it as used. But if you cannot get the butter of 
antimony, the following will be the next best thing : 

3. Polish for Rsmoving Btains, Spots, akd Mildew, from 
Furniture.— Take of 93 per cent, alcohol ^ pt.; pulverized 
rosin and gum sliellac, of each "J ox. Let these cut in the alco- 
hol; then add linsecd-oil i pt.: shake well, and apply with a 
eponge, brush, or cotton tiannel, or an old newspaper, rubbing it 
well after the application, which gives a nice polish. 

These are just the thing for new furniture when sold and 
about to be taken out of the shop ; removing the dust and 
giving the new appearance again. 

4. Jet, or Polish for Wood or Leather, Black, Red, oh 
Blue. — Alcohol (1)8 per cent.) 1 pt. ; sealing wax, the color de- 
sired, 3 sticks ; dissolve by heat, and have it warm when applied, 
A. sponge is the best to apply it with. 

For black on leather it is best to apply copperas watei 
first, to save extra coats; and paint wood the color desired 
also, for the same reason. On smooth surfaces, use the tal- 
low and rotten stone as in the first polish. It may be ap- 
plied to carriage-bodies, cartridge-boxes, dashes, fancy-bas- 
kets, straw-bonnets, straw-hats, &c. 

FURNITURE — Finishing with only One Coat of Varniph. 
WOT Using Glue, Paste, or Shellac. — Take boiled linseed-oil 
and give the furniture a coat with a brush ; then immediately 
sprinkle dry whiting upon it and rub it in well with your hand., 
yr a brush which is worn rather short and stitF, over all the sur- 
face — the whiting absorbs the oil ; and the pores of the wood 
are thus filled with a perfect coat of putty, which will last lot 
ages ; and water will not spot it nor have any effect upon it. 

For mouldings and deep creases in turned work, you can 
mix them quite thick, and apply them together, with the 
old brush, but on smooth surfaces, the hand and dry whit- 
ing are best. If black walnut is the wood to be finished, 
you will put a trifle of burned umber in the whiting, — if 
for cherry, a little Venetian-red ; beech or maple nrJl re* 



CABINET MAKEjBS' DEPABTMENT. 271 

quire less red. Only sufficient is to be used, in either case, 
to make tlie wliiting the color of the •wood, being finished. 
Bedstead-posts, banisters, or standards for bedsteads and all 
other turned articles can have the finish put on in the lathe, 
ia double quick time ; spreading a newspaper on the lathe 
to save the scattering whiting, applying it with the hand or 
hands, having an old cloth to rub off the loose whiting 
which does not enter the pores of the wood, — the same with 
Bmooth surfaces also. 

This preparation is cheap ; and it is a wonder that furni- 
ture men have not thought of it before. Three coats of 
varnish without it is not as level as one with it. From the 
fact that some of the varnish enters the pores of the wood 
and does not dry smooth; but with the pores filled with this 
preparation, of course, it must dry smooth and level, with- 
out rubbing down. 

STAINS — MAnoGANY on Walkut, Natural as Natuke. — 
Apply aquafortis by means af a rag tacked to a slick ; for if you 
use a brush it Avill very soon destroy it. Set the furniture in the 
hot sun to heat in the aquafortis, if no sun, heat it in by a stove 
or fire. 

It is better if heat in, but does quite well without heat 
ing. Finish up in every other way as usual. 

This finish is applicable to fancy tables, stands, lounges, 
coffinSj &c., and equally beautiful on knots and crotches, 
giving walnut the actual appearance of mahogany, and as 
it is appearances only that most people depend upon, why 
will not this do as well as to trasport timber from beyond 
the seas. 

2. RosE-wooD Stain, Veky Bright Shade — Used Cold.— 
Take alcohol 1 gal.; camwood 3 ozs.; let them stand in a warm 
place 24 hours ; then add extract of logwood 8 ozs.; aquafortis 
1 oz.; and when dissolved it is ready for use ; it makes a very 
bright grnuud, like the most beautiful rose-wood — one, two or 
mora coats, as you desire, over the whole surface. 

This part makes the bright streaks or grains ; the dark 
ones is made by applying, in waves, the following : 

Take iron turnings or chippings, and put vinegar upon them; 
(et it stand a few hours and it is ready to apply over the otlicr, 
by means of a comb made for graining ; or a comb made from 
thinnish India-rubber ; the teeth should be ratlier good length ; 
eay half an inch, and cut close together or further apart, as de- 
sired ; and with a little practice, oxcelleat imitation will be mad*. 



%73 D&. OHAfll'8 Bieipxt. 

This, for chairs, looks very beautiful to apply me darken 
ing mixture by means of a flat, thin-haired, brasn, leaving 
only a little ol" the red color in eight ; and if you want t« 
make the cringles, as sometimes seen in rose-wood, it is 
done with a single tooth or pen, bearing on sometimes har4 
?ifld then light, &o., &c. All can and must be got by prae 
tic«. 

The above stain is very bright. If, however, you wish 
a lower shade, use the next recipe. 

8. Rose- WOOD Stain— Lianx Shade— Take equal parts of 
logwood and redw'>ud chips, and boil well in just suftlcicnt water 
lo make a strong stain; apply it to the furniture while hot, 1 ot 
2, or even 3 coats may be put on, one directly after the other, 
according to the depth of color desired. 

For the dark lines, use the iron chippings as in the abov« 
recipe. Or, if a rose-pink is desired, use the following : 

4. Rose- Pink, Stai»{ and Varnish, Also Used to Imitatb 
RosE-wooD. — Put an ounce of potash into a quart of water, with 
red Banders H ozs.; extract the color from the wood end strain; 
then add gum shellac i lbs.; dissolve it by a quick fire — used 
upon logwood Etain for rose-wood imitAiion. 

5. Black Walnut Stain. — Whenever persons are using 
walnut which has sap-edges, or if two pieces are being glued 
together which are different in shade, or when a poplar 
pannel, or other wood is desired to be used to imitate black 
walnut, you will find the following to give excellent sati* 
faction : 

Spirits of turpentine 1 gal.; pulverized gum asphaltum 2 lbs. 
Put them into an iron kettle and place upon a stove, which 

Erevents the possibility of fire getting at the turpentine; dissolve 
y heat, frequently stirring until dissolved. I*at into a jug or 
can while hot 

When desired to use any of it, pour out and reduce with 
turpentine to the right shade for the work being stained. 
With a little practice you can make any shade desired. If 
used with a brush over a red stain, as mentioned in tke rose* 
wood stain recipes, especially for chairs and bedsteads, it 
very nearly resembles that wood. Mixing a little varnish 
with the turpentine when reducing it, prevent* it from spot- 
ting, and causes it to dry quicker. By rubbing a little 
lamp-black with it you oan make it a perfect black, if de- 
sired. 



CABINET MAKKRa' DEPARTMENT 27$ 

6. CnERKT Stain. — Take rain water 3 qts.; anotta 4 ozs.; boil 
vn a copper kettle until the anotta is dissolved ; then put in a 
piece of potash the size of a common walnut, and keep it on the 
fire about half an hour longer, and it is ready lor use. Bottle 
for keeping. 

Tliis makes poplar or other light-colored woods so near 
the color of cherry that it is hard to distinguish ; and even 
improves the appearance of light-colored cherry. 

VARNISHES — Black, with Asphaltum. — Spirits of tui-pen 
tine 1 gal.; pulverized gum asphaltum 2i lbs.; dissolve by heat, 
over a stove fire. 

It is applied to iron, frames of door plates, back-grounds 
m crystal painting, etching upon glass, and also for fence- 
wire, or screens which are to go into water above mills to 
turn leaves and drift-wood, &c. 

2. Patent Varnish, for Wood or Canva.«ss.— Take spirits 
of turpentine 1 gal.; asphaltum 2^ lbs.; put them mto an iron 
kettle which will fit upon a stove, and dissolve the gum by heat. 
VVhen dissolved and a little cool, add copal vamish 1 pt., and 
boiled linseed-oil i pt.; when cold it is ready for use. Perhaps a 
little lamp-black would make it a more perfect blacK. 

If done over a common fire, the turpentine will be very 
likely to take fire and be lost j and, perhaps, fire the house 
or your clothes. 

This is valuable for wood, iron, or leather; but for cloth, 
first make a sizing by boiling flax-seed one quart, in water 
one gallon ; applying of this for the first coat ; the second 
coat of comjpon thick black paint ; and lastly a coat of the 
varnish. Some think that sperm oil, the same quantity, 
makes a little better gloss. 

8. Varnish, Transparent, for Wood. — Best alcohol 1 gnl.; 
nice gum shellac 2^ lbs. Place the jug or bottle in a situation 
to keep it just a little warm, and it will dissolve quicker than if 
hot, or left cold. 

This varnish is valuable for plows, or any other article 
whert you wish to show the grain of the wood, and for pine, 
when you wish to finish up rooms with white, as the '' Por- 
celain Finish ;" a coat or two of it effectually prevents the 
pitch irom oozing out, which would stain the finish. 

If this stands in an open dish, it will become thick by 
evaporation j in such cases add a little more alcohol, and it 
is a.s good as before. Some do use as much as three and a 
._^^-nH. chase's recipes. 



274 DR. CHASSS RECIPES. 

half pounds of shellac, but it is too thick to spread well , 
better apply two or more coats, if necessary. When a 
black varnish is wanted, you can rub laiup-black with this, 
for that purpose, if- preferred before the asphaltum, Isu^ 
given. 



BARBERS' AND TOILET DEPARTMENT. 

HAIR DYE~In Two Numbers.— No. 1. Take gallic acid \ 
oz.; alcohol 8 ozs. ; soft water 16 ozs.; put the acid in the alcohol, 
then add the water. 

No. 2. Take for No. 2, crj'stalized nitrate of silver 1 oz.: am- 
monia, strongest kind, 3 ozs. ; gum arabic i oz. ; soft water 6 ozs. 
Observe, in making it, that the silver is to be put into the ammo- 
nia, and not corked until it is dissolved ; the gum is to be dis- 
Eolved in the water, then all mi.xed, and it is ready for use. 

Barbers will probably make this amount at a time, as it 
comes much cheaper than in small quantities ; but if fami- 
lies or others, for individual use, only wish a little, take 
drachms, instead of ounces, which you see will make only 
one-eighth of the amount. 

Directions for Applying. — First, wash the whiskers 
or hair with the " shampoo," and rinse out well, rubbing 
with a towel until nearly dry ; then with a brush ajtply No. 
1, wetting completely, and use the dry towel again to re- 
move all superfluous water; then with anflther brush, 
(tooth-brushes are best,) wet every part with No. 2, and it 
becomes instantaneously black ; as soon as it becomes diy, 
wash off with hard water, then with soap and water; apply 
a little oil, and all is complete. 

The advantages of this dye are, that if you get any stain 
upon the skin, wipe it off with a cloth at the time, and tho 
washing removes all appearances of stain ; and the whis- 
kers or hair never turn red, do not crock, and ajre a bcauti 
ful black. 

However, cyanuret of potas.sium 1 dr., to 1 oz. of watci. 
m\\ take off any stain upon the skin, arising from nitrate of 
silver; but it is poison, and should not tDueh .sore, places 
nor be left where children may get at it. 



barbers' and toilet department. 27$ 

r eisuns whose liair 's prematurely gray, -will find dye 
less trouble in using, tV.an the restoratives ; for when once 
applied, nothing more needs being done for several weeks ; 
vhilst the restorati'p'^s are only slow dyes, and yet need 
Beveral applications. But that all may have the chance of 
choosing for themsC'es, I give you some of the best resto- 
ratives in use. 

HAIR RESTORA TIVES AND INVIGORATORS.— Equal 
TO Wood's, Fon > T riflnig Cost. — Su^ar of lead, borax, and 
lac-sulphur, of efcb 1 oz.; aqua ammonia i oz.; alcohol 1 gill. 
These articles to scand mixed for 14 hours ; then add bay rum 1 
gill ; hue table salt 1 table-spoon ; soft water 3 pts.; essence of 
burgamot 1 oz. 

^J'his preparation not only gives a beautiful gloss, but will 
cause hair i< grow upon bald heads arising from all common 
causes ; and turn gray hair to a dark color. 

Mannfr of Application. — When the hair is thin or 
bald, viPke two applications daily, until this amount is used 
up, unless the hair has come out sufficiently to satisfy you 
before that time ; work it to the roots of the hair with a 
soft brush or the ends of the fingers, rubbing well each 
tiiue. For gi'ay hair one application daily is sufficient. It 
is harmless and will do all that is claimed for it, does not 
ooat only a trifle in comparison to the advertised restora- 
tives of the day; aud will be found as good or better than 
mosL of them. 

2 Invigorator. — Vinegar of cantharides 1 oz.; cologne-Avater 
1 o>. ; and rose-water 1 oz. ; mixed and rubbed to the roots of 
the nair, until the scalp smarts, twice daily, has been very highly 
recommended for bald heads, ©r where the hair is falling out. 

If there is no fine hair on the scalp, no restorative, nor 
invigorator on earth can give a head of hair, See remarks 
after No. a. 

3. Another. — Lac-sulphur and sugar of lead, of each 1 dr. ; 
tannin and pulverized copperas, each 32 grs. ; rose-water 4 ozs. ; 
wetting the liaii once a day for 10 or 12 days, then once or twic« 
a week will keep up the color. 

If it is only desired to change gray hair to a dark color 
the la.5t will do it ; but where the hair is falling out or has 
already fallen, the first is required to stimulate the scalp to 
healthy action. 

4. Akothkk — Lac -sulphur and sugar of lead, of each 1 oz.j 



276 Da. chase's kecipes. 

pulverized litharge, (called lithrage) H ozs. ; rain water 1 qt ; 
applying 3 mornings and skipping 3, until 9 applications — ^giretf 
a nice dark color. 

I obtained this of one of the Friends, at Richmond, Ind., 
and for turning white or gray hair, it is a good one. Th« 
litharge sets the color, as the sulphate of iron does in tK« 
next. There is but little choice between them. 

5. Another. — Rain water 6 ozs. ; lac-sulphur ^ oz. ; sugar o^ 
lead i oz. ; sulphate of iron (copijcras,) i oz ; flavor with bergw- 
nr.ot essence, if desired ; and apply to the hair daily until si3a- 
ciently dark to please. 

All the foregoing restorativea will change, or color tL« 
gray or white hair black, or nearly so ; but let who will tell 
you that his restorative will give your hair its original color^ 
just let that man go for all he is worth at the time; for as 
time advances his worth will be beautifully less. 

6. Hair Invigorator. — A Wheeling barber makes xxse 
of the following invigorator to stop hair from falling out, oi 
to cause it to grow in ; it is a good one, so i^ the one follow- 
ing it : 

Take bay rum 1 pt. ; alcohol i pt. ; castor oil ^ oz. ; carbonate 
of ammonia i oz. ; tincture of cantharides | oz. Mix, and shako 
when used. Use it daily, until the end is attained. 

7. Another. — Carbonate of ammonia 1 oz. ; rubbed up in 1 
pi. of sweet oil. Apply daily until the hair stops falling out, or 
is sufficiently grown out. 

This last is spoken of very highly in England, as a pi o- 
ducer of hair, " Where the hair ought to grow," and does 
not. 

8. StiiONG sage tea, as a daily wash is represented to stop 
hair from falling out ; and what will stop it from falling, is 
an invigorator and consequently good. 

There is not a liniment mentioned in this book, but which, 
if well rubbed upon the scalp daily for two or three months, 
will bring out a good head of hair ; when the scalp ha.s be- 
come glossy and shining, however, and no fine hair growing, 
you may know that the hair follicle or root, is dead ; and 
nothing can give a head of hair in such eases, any more 
than grain can grow from ground which has had none scat- 
tered upon it. This condition may be known by the shin- 
ing or glistCDing appearance of the scalp 



barberb' and toilet department. 2/ 

All heads aa well as bodies should be often washed witli 
soap and clean water ; but if that is neglected too long, it 
becomes necessary to use somethiug stronger to remove the 
grease and dandruff — then the following will be found just 
the thing to be desired. 

SHAMPOOING MIXTURES— For Five Cents pek Quakt. 
—Purified carbonate of potash, commonly called, salts of tartar 
1 oz. ; rain water 1 qt. ; mix, aud it is ready for use. 

Apply a few spoons of it to the head, rubbing and work- 
ing it thoroughly ; then rinse out with clean soft water, and 
dry the hair well with a coarse, dry towel, applying a little 
oil or pomatum to supply the natural oil which has been 
Baponified and washed out by the operation of the mixture. 
A barber will make at least five dollars out of *tiis five cents 
(vorth of material. 

2. Another excellent shampoo is made by using aqua ammo- 
nia 3 ozs. ; salts of tartar J oz. ; alcohol ^ oz. ; and soil water 2^ 
pts. and flavoring with bergamot. In applying, rub the head 
until the lather goes down ; then wash out. 

The next recipe also, makes as good a shampoo mixture 
as I wish J for it kills so many birds at one throw that I do 
nut wish to throw any other. 

RENOVATING MIXTURES— For Grease Spots, SavM- 
rooiNG, AND KiiiLiNG Bed-Bugs. — Aqua ammonia 2 ozs. ; soft 
water 1 qt. ; saltpetre 1 t«a-spoon ; variegated shaving soap 1 oz., 
or one 3 cent cake, finely shaved or scraped; mix all, shake 
well, and it will be a little better to stand a few hours or days 
before using, which gives the soap a chance to dissolve. 

Directions. — Pour upon the place a sufilcient amount 
to well cover an^^ grease or oil which may get spilled or 
daubed upon coats, pants, carpets, &c., sponging and rub- 
bing well and applying again if necessary to saponify the 
grease in the garment ; then wash off with clear cold water. 

Don't squirm now, for these are not half it will do- 
some people fly entirely off the handle when a preparation 
is said to do many things — for my part, however, I alwaya 
admire an article in proportion to the labor which can be 
performed by it or with it. This preparation will shampoo 
like a charm j raising the lather in proportion to the amount 
of grease and dandruff in the hair. It will remove paint, 
even from a board, I care not how long it has been applied, 
if oi} was used in the paint — and yet it does not injure the 



278 DR. chase's recipes. 

finest textures, for the simple reason that its affinity is foi 
grease or oil, changing them to soap, and thus loosening 
any substance with which they may be combined. 

If it is put upon a bed-bug he will never step afterwards * 
and if put into their crevices, it destroys their eggn and 
thus drives them from the premises. 

A cloth wet with it will soon remove all the grease acd 
dirt from doors which are much opened by kitchen-hand« 

3. Renovating Clotitf.s— Gentlemen's Wear. — To warm 
soft water 4 gale., put in 1 beef's gall ; saleratus i lb. Dissolve. 

Lay the garment on a bench and scour every part 
thoroughly by dipping a stiflf brush into the mixture j spots 
of grease and the collar must be done more thorough, and 
longer continued than other parts, and rinse the garment 
in the mixture by raising up and down a few times, then 
the same way in a tub of soft cold water; press out the watei 
and hang up to dry; after which it needs brushing the waj 
of the nap and pressing well under a damp cloth. 

Beef's gall will set the color on silks, woolen, or cotton — 
one spoon to a gallon of water is sufficient for this purpose. 
Spotted bombazine or bombazette washed in this will also 
look nearly equal to new. 

3. Faded and Worn GAR>rENTS — To Eenew the Colok. — 
To alcohol 1 qt., add extract of logwood i lb. ; loaf sugar 2 oz, ; 
blue vitriol i oz. ; heat gently until all are dissolved; bottle foi 
use. 

Directions. — To one pint of boiling water put three or 
four tea-spoons of the mixture, and apply it to the garment 
with a clean brush; wetting the fabric thoroughly; let dry; 
:hen suds out well and dry again to prevent crocking ; brush 
with the nap to give the polish. This may be applied to 
silks and woolen goods having colors ; but is most applicable 
to gentlemen's apparel. 

COLOGNES — Imperial. — Take oils of bergamot 1 oz. ; re- 
roll 1 dr. ; jessamine i oz. ; garden lavender 1 dr. ; cinnamon 6 
drops ; tincture of benzoin 1^ ozs. ; tincture of musk i oz. ; do 
odorized or cologne alcohol 3 qts. ; rose water 1 pt. Mix. 

Allow the preparation to stand several days, shaking oc- 
casionally, before filtering for use or bottling. This is rataoi 
expensive, yet a very nice article. See "llose- Water." 
■ 2. CoLOQNB FOB Family Usk — Cheapkb.— Oils of rosemary 



Sarbers' and toilet department. 279 

and lemon, each i oz. ; bergamot and lavender, each 1 dr. ; cin- 
namon 8 drops ; clove and rose, each 15 drops ; common alcohol 
2 qts. Mix, and shake 2 or 3 times daily for a week. 

Colognes need only be used in very small quantities; the 
game is true of highly flavored oils or pomades ; as too 
much, even of a good thing, soon disgusts those whom they 
were intended to please. 

HAIR OILS — New York Bauuers', Star. — Castor oil Q} pts ; 
eilcohol IJ pts.; oil of citronella ^ oz.; lavender J oz.; mixed an(i 
shaken when used, makes one of the finest oils for the hair it 
use. 

I have been told that this amount of alcohol does not cut 
the oil. Of course, we know that ; that is, it does not be- 
come clear, neither do we want it to do so ; it combines with 
the oil, and destroys all the gumminess and flavor peculiar 
to castor oil, by which it becomes one of the best oils for 
the hair which can be applied. Gills, spoons, or any other 
measure will do as w^ell, keeping the proportion of flavoring 
oils ; and if the citronella cannot be got, use some other oil 
in its place ; none are equal to it, however. 

3. Macassar, ou Rose. — Olive oil 1 qt.; alcohol 2| ozs.; rose 
oil i dr.; tie chipped-alkanet root 1 oz., into 2 or 3 little muslin 
bags ; let them lie in the oil until a beautiful red is manrfeslod ; 
rhen hang them up to drain, for if you press them you get out a 
sediment you do not wish in the oil. 

3. Fragrant, HojrE-MADE. — Collect a quantity of the leaves 
of any of the flowers that have an agreeable fragrance ; or fra- 
grant leaves, as the rose-gferanium, &c. ; card thin layers of cot- 
ton, and dip into the finest sweet oil; spnnkle a small quantity 
of salt ou the flowers; a layer of cotton and then a layer of 
flowers, until an earthen-ware vessel, or a wide-mouthed glass 
bottle is full. 

Tie, over it, a piece of a bladder ; then place the vessel in 
the heat of the sun ; and in fifteen days a fragrant oil may 
be squeezed out, resembling the leaf used. Or, an extract 
is made by putting alcohol upon the flowers or leaves, in 
about the same length of time. These are very suitable for 
the hair, but the oil is undoubtedly the best. 

4. Pomade — Ox Marrow. — One of the most beautiful 
pomades, both in color and action, is made as follows : 

Take beef's marrow 1 lb.; alkanet root, not chipped, 1 oz.; put 
them into a suitable vessel and stew tlieni as you would rciKler 
tiJlow ; strain through two or three thicknesses of nmsliu, and 



laen aao, oi casior on t 'O-; ut^y rnai » g-" ; Oicn la&ee aTraj 
the peculiar freshness of the marrow ; then use the extract m 
the common rose- geranium to give it the flavor desired. 

^alf as much suet as marrow, also makes a very nice 
article ; and "an be used where the marrow is not easily ob 
taiaed. 

BALM OF A THOUSAND FLOWERS.— As strange 
as it may seem, some of the most astonishingly named ani- 
'jles, are the most simple in their composition. Although 
thousands of dollars have been made out of the above 
named article, it is both cheap and simple : 

Deoderized alcohol 1 pt.; nice white-bar soap 4 ozs.; shave the 
soap when put in ; stand in a warm place until dissolved ; then 
add oil of citroneUa 1 dr.; and oils of neroli and rosemary, of 
each i dr. 

It is recommended as a general perfume ; but it is mora 
particularly valuable to put a little of it into warm water, 
with which to cleanse the teeth. 

RAZOR STROP-PASTE.— Take the tery finest superfine 
flour of emery and moisten it with sweet oil ; or you may moist- 
en the surface of the strop with the oil, then dust the flour of 
emery upon it, which is perhaps the best way. 

Nothing else is needed. You must not take any of the 
coarse flours, nothing but the finest will do. It is often 
mixed with a little oil and much other stuft" which is of no 
use, and put up in little boxes and sold at two shillings, not 
Having more than three cent's worth of emery. 



BAKERS' AND COOKING DEPARTMENT 

Remarks. — It may not be considered out of place ta 
make a few remarks here, on the art, as also on the princi- 
ples, of cookery. For nearly all will acknowledge cooking 
not only to be an art, but a science, as well. To know how 
to cook economically is an art. Making money is an art, 
Now is there not more money made and lost in the kitcken 
than almost any where else ? Does not many a hard-work- 
ing man have his substance wasted in the kitchen ? Doc* 



BAKSRS' JiXH COOKJKO D£PAnTMXKT.\ SSI 

not many a shiftless man have his substance saved in the 
kitchen ? A careless" cook can waste as much as a man can 
earn, which miglit as well be saved. It is not what we earn, 
as much as what we save, that makes us well-otf. A long and 
happy life is tlie reward of obedience to nature's laws ; and 
to beindependent of want, is not to want what we do not 
need. Prodigality and idleness constitute a crime against hu- 
manity. But frugality and industry, combined with moral 
vii'tue and intelligence, will insure individual happiness and 
national prosperity. Economy is an institute of nature and 
enforced by Bible' precept: '-Gather up the fragments, thai 
nothing be lost." Saving is a more difficult art than earning : 
some people put dimes into pies and puddings, where others 
only put in cents ; the cent dishes are the most healthy. 

Almost any woman can cook well, if she have plenty with 
which to do it ; but the leal science of cooking is to be able 
to cook a good meal, or dish, with but little out of which to 
make it. This is what our few recipes shall ass'.st you iu 
doing 

As to the principles of cooking, remember that water can, 
not be made more than boiling hot — no matter how much 
you hasten the fire, you cannot hasten the cooking, of meat 
potatoes, &c., one moment : a brisk boil is sufficient. When 
meat is to be boiled for eating, put it into boiling water at the 
beginning, by which its iuices are preserved But if you 
wish to extract these juices for soup or broth, put the meat- 
in small pieces, into cold water, and let it simmer slowly 

The same principle holds good m baking, also. Make the 
oven the right heat, and give it time to bake through, is the, 
true plan ; if you attempt to hurry it, you only burn, instead 
of cooking it done. 

If you attempt the boiling to hurrv. Uio wood only is wasted • 

Bat, m attempting \be baking to hurry, the lood, as w eli, isu t fit to be tasted. 

CAKES — Federal Cake.— Flour 2^ ^^^-'^ pulverized while 
sugar 1'^ lbs. : fresh butter 10 ozs ; 5 eggs well beaten ; car- 
bonate ot ammonia Jg oz. ; water J^ pt., or milk is best, if you 
have It, 

Grind down the ammonia, and rub it with the sugar. 
Rub the butter into the flour; noAv make a bowJ of the 
iknir, (unless you choose to work it up in a dish,) and put 



282 DR. chase's recipes 

in the iggA milk, sugar, &c., and mix well, and roll out to 
about a quarter of an inch in thickness ; then cut out with 
a round cutter, and place on tins so they touch each other 
and instead of rising up thicker, in baking, they fill up tne 
space between, and make a square-looking cake, all attached 
together. While they are yet warm, drench over with 
white coarsely-pulverized sugar. If they are to be kept m 
a show-case, by bakers, you can have a board as large as the 
tin on which you bake them, and lay a dozen or more tin«- 
ful on top of each other, as you sprinkle on the sugar. 1 
cannot see why they are called " Federal," for really, thej 
are good enough for any " Whig." 

Ammonia should be kept in a wide-mouthed bottle, tight 
ly corked, as it is a very volatile salt. It is known by v^i 
rious names, as *' volatile salts," " sal volatile," " hartshorn/ 
*' hartshorn-shavings," &c., &c. It is used for smelling-bot 
ties, fainting, as also in baking. 

2. Rouon-AND-READY Cake. — Butter or lard 1 lb.; molasses ■• 
qt.; soda 1 oz.; milk or water i pt.; ground ginger 1 table- 
spoon ; and a little oil ol lemon ; flour sufiicient. 

Mix up the ginger in flour, and rub the butter or lard in 
also J dissolve the soda in the milk or water; put in the 
molasses, and use ;he flour in which the ginger and butter 
is rubbed up, and suSicient more to make the dough of a 
proper consistence to roll out ; cut the cakes out with a 
long and narrow cutter, and wet the top with a little mo- 
la.sses and water, to remove the flour from the cake ; turn 
the top down, into pulverized white sugar, and place in an 
oven sufficiently hot for bread, but keep them in only to 
bake, not to dry tip. This, and the " Federal," are great 
favorites in Pennsylvania, where they know what is good, 
and have the means to make it ; yet they are not expoa- 
sive. 

3. Sponge Cake, With Sour Mrmj. — Flour 3 cups; fine 
w bite sugar 2 cups ; 6 eggs ; sour milk i cup, with saleratmj I 
tea-spoon. 

Dissolve the saleratus in the milk ; beat the eggs sepa- 
rately ; sift the flour and sugar ; first put the sugar intc 
the milk and eggs, then the flour, and stir all well together, 
using any flavoring extract which you prefer, 1 tea-spoon — 
lemon, however, is the most common As soon as the flou) 



BAKER8' AND COOKING DEPARTMENT. 283 

U .itirred in, put it immediately into a quick oven ; and if 
it iS all put into a common square bread-pan, for wliich it 
makes the right amount, it will require about twenty to 
thirty minutes to bake ; if baked in small cakes, proportion 
ately less. ' 

4. Sponge Cake with Sweet Milk. — As sour milk 
cannot always be had, I give you a sponge cake with sweet 
milk 

Nico brown sugar 1| cups ; 3 eggs; sweet milk 1 cup; flout 
d^ cups ; cream of tartar and soda, of each 1 tea-spoon ; lemon 
essence 1 tea-spoon. 

Thoroughly beat the sugar and eggs together ; mix the 
cream of tartar and soda in the milk, stirring in the flavor 
also ', then mix in the flour, remembering that all cakes 
ought to be baked soon after making. This is a very nice 
cake, notwithstanding what is said of " Berwick," below. 

5. BiiRwiCK Sponge Cake w'lTnoDT Milk. — Six eggs, pow- 
dered white sugar 3 cups ; sifted flour 4 even cups; cream of 
tartar 3 tea-spoons; cold water 1 cup; soda.l teaspoon; one 
lemon. 

First, beat the eggs two minutes, and put in the sugar 
and beat five minutes more ; then stir in the cream of tar- 
car and two cups of the flour, and beat one minute; now 
dissolve the soda in the water and stir in, having grated the 
rind of the lemon, squeeze in half of the juice only; and 
hiially add the other two cups of flour and beat all one min- 
ute, and put into deep pans in a moderate oven. There is 
considerable beating about this cake, but if ifsel/ does not 
boat all the sponge cakes you ever beat, we will acknowl 
edge it to be the heating cake, all around. 

G. SuRPniSE Cake. — One egg; sugar 1 cup; butter ^ cup; 
sweet milk 1 cup; soda 1 tea-spocn; cream of tartar 2 tea- 
spoons. 

Flavor with lemon, and use sufficient sifted flour tomak 
the proper consistence, and you will really be surprised t 
see its bulk and beauty. 

7. SuGAK Cake. — Take 7 eggs and beat the whites and yolka 
separately ; then beat well together ; now put into them sifted 
wliite sugar 1 lb.; with melted butter | lb., and a small tea- 
spoon of pulverized carbonate of ammonia. 

Stir in just sufficient sifted flour to allow of its being 
rolkd out and cut into cakes. 



884 DR. chase's recipes. 

' 8. GiJfflEK Cake. — Molassea 2 cups; butter, or one-half lard 
If you clioose, IJ^ cups; sour milk 2 cups; ground ginger 1 
tea-spoon, saleratus 1 heaping tea-spoon. 

Mash the saleratus, then mix all these ingredients together 
in a suitable pan, and stir in flour as long as you can with 
a spoon ; then take the hand and work in more, just so you 
can roll them by using flour dusting pretty freely ; roll out 
thin, cut and lay upon your buttered or floured tins ; then 
mix one spoon ot molasses and two of water, and with a 
small brusli or bit of cloth wet over the top of the cakes; 
this removes the dry flour, causes the cakes to take a nice 
brown and keep them moist ; put into a quick oven, and 
ten minutes will bake them if the oven is sufficient!}'' hot. 
Do not dry them all up, but take out as soon as nicely 
browned. 

We have sold cakes out of the grocery for years, bat nevei 
ouod any to give as good satistaction as those, eithei at table 
loi counter. They keep moist, and are sufficiently rich and 
igbt for ail cake eateis. 

9 Tea or Cup Cake— Pour eggs; nice brown sugar 2 
cups ; saleratus 1 tea-spoon ; sour imlk 3 cups ; melted butter 
or half lard 1 cup ; half a grated nutmeg ; flour. 

Put the eggs and sugar into a suitable pan and beat to- 
gether • dissolve the saleratus m the milk and add to the 
eggs and sugar • put in the butter and nutmeg also stir 
ad well: then sifl in flour sufficient to make the mass to 
such a consistence that it will not run from a spoon when 
ifted upon it. Any one preferring lemon can use that jn 
place of nutmeg. Bake rather slowly. 

10 Cake, Nice, ""without Eoos on Milk —A very nice 
cake is made as follows, and it will keep well also: 

Flour S^4 lbs. ; sii^ar 13^ lb ; butter 1 lb r water U pt." 
having 1 tea spoon of saleratus di.ssolved in it. 
Roil ihiL and bake on tin sheets. 

11. Pork Cake, without Butter, Milk, ou Eggs — Al 
most deligiitful cake is made by the use of pork, which save« 
the expense of butter, eggs, and milk. It must be tasted to 
appreciated ; and another advantage of it is that a ou cabf 
make enough, some leisure day, to last the season >lirouffhB 
for I have eaten it two montks after it was baked, sitiil nice, 
and moist. ' 



BAKER3 AND OOOKIXG DEPARTMENT 285 

Fat, salt pork, entirely free of lean or rind, chopped so fine 
aa to be almoat like lard 1 lb. ; pour boiling water upon it i pt. ; 
raisins seeded and choppod 1 lb. ; citron shaved into shreds i lb. ; 
sugar 2 cups ; molasses 1 cup ; saleratus 1 tea-spoon, rubbed fine 
and put into the molasses. Mix these all together, and stir in 
sifted flour to make the consistence of common cake mixtures ; 
then stir in nutmeg and cloves finely ground 1 oz. each ; cinna- 
mon, also fine, 2 ozs. ; be governed about the time of baldng it 
by putting a sliver into it — when nothing adheres it is done. It 
should be baked slowly. 

You can substitute other fruit in place of the raisins, if • 
dfisired, using as much or as little as you please, or none at 
all, and still have a nice cake. In this respect you may call 
it the accommodation cake, as it accommodates itself to th< 
wishes or circumstances of its lovers. 

\Vhen p^-^rk will do all we here claim for it, who will lon- 
ger contend that it is not fit to eat ? Who 1 

12. CiDEK Cake. — Flour 6 cups ; sugar 3 cups ; butter 1 cup ; 
4 eggs; cider 1 cup; saleratus 1 tea-spoon; 1 grated nutmeg. 

Ueat the eggs, sugar, and butter together, and stir in the 
flour and nutmeg; dissolve the saleratus in the cider and 
stir into the mass and bake immediately, in a quick oven. 

13. Ginger Snaps.— Butter, lard, and brown sugar, of each i 
lb.; molasses 1 pt. ; ginger 2 table-spoon ; flour 1 qt. ; saleratus 
2 tea-spoons ; sour milk 1 cup. 

Melt the butter ard lard, and whip in tho sugar, molas- 
ses, and ginger ; dissolve the saleratus in the milk and put 
in ; then the flour, and if needed, a little more flour, to en- 
able you to roll out very thin ; cut into small cakes and 
bake in a slow oven until snajipish. 

14. Jei i-Y Cake — Five eggs ; sugar 1 cup ; a little nutmeg ; sal- 
eratus 1 tea-spoon ; sour muk 2 cups ; flour. 

Beat the eggs, sugar, and nutmeg together ; dissolve tho 
saleratus in the milk, and mix ; then stir in flour to make 
only a thin batter, like pan-cakes ; three or four spoons of 
the batter to a common round tin; bake in a quick oven 
I'hree or four of these thin cakes, with jelly between, form 
one cake, the jelly being spread on while the cake is warm 

15. Roll, Jelly Cake. — Nice brown sugar 1^ cups ; 3 eggs ; 
sweet skim milk 1 cup; flour 2 cups, or a Utile more only; cream 
of tartar and soda, of each 1 tea-spoon ; lemon essence 1 tea- 
Bpoou. 

Thoroughly beat the eg;j;s and eugar together ; mix th« 



286 



DR. chase's BE01PE8. 



cream of tartar and soda with the milk, stirring in the fla- 
vor also ] now mix in the flour, remembering to bake soon, 
spreading thin upon a long pan ; and as soon as done spread 
jelly upon the top and rail up ; slicing off only as used ; the 
jelly does not come in contact with the fingers, as in the 
last, or flat cakes. 

CAKE TABLE, FIFTEEN KINDS. 







s 


33 

to 


^ 

S 


to 


16. Pound, 


lib. 


lib. 


lib. 


— 


8 



17. Genuine Whig, 3 " 

18. Shrewsbury, 1 " 

19. Traiuing, 3 " 

20. Nut-Cake, 7 " 



-- 7 



21. Short-Cake, 


5 " 


8 ozs. i " 


— 8 


«3. Cymbals, # 


2 " 


8 " i " 


— 6 


33. Burk Cake, 


5 " 


8 " i " 


^1 pt. 9 


24. Jumbles, 


5 " 


1 lb. 2 " 


— 6 


25. Ginger-Bread, 


1 " 


i" * " 


— 3 


26. Wonders, 

27. Cookies. 


2 " 

3 " 


f" 4" 


— 10 

— 3 



28. York Biscuit, 3 " i " f " — 



29. Common, 
80. Loaf, 



12 " 
9qts. 



31. Moi-ASSES Cake.- 
spoon; sour milk 2 cups 
wiiat you would take up 
sa.L 



rose-water thre» 

S])ocns, mace, &c. 
8 ozs. 8 ozs. 1 pt. — raise with yeast. 
1 lb. f lb. — — rose-water, &c. 

cin'n, nutmeg. 

cin'n, wet witl 
milk, raise with 
yeast, or wet and 
raise with sour 
milk&saleratus. 

rose-water and 
nutmeg. 

rose-water anC 
fe little spice. 

rose-water, raise 
with yeast. 

roll out ill loaf 
sugar. 

yolks only — gin 
ger to suit. 

cinnamon. 

or without eggF 
— wet uj), raise 
w i t h saleratus 
and sour milk. 

wet up, and raise 
with sour milk 
and suleratus. 
3 " 3 " 2qts. — yeast, spice to 

laste. 
3 " 4 " 1 gal. — wine 1 pt. yea?t 1 
pint. 

-Molasses li cups; saleratus 1 tea 
; 3 eggs ; butter, lard, or pork gravy, 
on a spoon ; if you use lai'd add, a littlb 



bakers' and cooking department. 287 

Mii all by beating a minute or two with a spoon, dis- 
suhring the saleratus in tlie milk ; then stir in flour to give 
the consistence of soi't-cake, and put directly into a hot 
o<en, being careful not to dry them up by over-baking, as 
it iS a soft, moist cake, that we are after. 

32. Marbled Cake. — Those having any curiosity tc 
gratify upon their own part, or on the part of friends, will 
be highly pleased with the contrast seen when they take a 
piece of a cake made in two parts, dark and light, as follows : 

Lion-r Part. — 'Wliite sugar li^ cups ; butter i cup ; sweet 
milk i Csip; soda i tea-spoon; creum of tartar 1 tea-spoon ; 
whites ol i eggs ; tlour 2^ cups ; beat and mixed as " Gold Cake.'I 

Dark Paut. — Brown sugar 1 cup ; molasses i cup ; butter ^ 
c up , sour milk ^ cup ; soda l tea-spoon ; cream of tartar 1 tca- 
s^poou ; tlour 2i cups ; yolks of 4 eggs ; cloves, allspice, cinna- 
mon, and uatmeg, ground, of each i table-spoon ; beat and 
mixed as " Gold Cake." 

Directions. — When each part is ready, drop a spoon of 
dark, then a spoon of light, over the bottom of the dish, in 
which it is to be baked, and so proceed to fill up the pan 
dropping the light upon the dark as you continue with the 
dilierent layers. 

33. SiLVKK Cake. — AVhitcs of 1 doz. egg* ; fiour 5 cups; 
white sugar and butter, of each 1 cup ; cream or s\\ eet mi!k 1 
cup; cream of tartar 1 tea-spoon; soda i tea-spoon; beat and 
mix as the " Gold Cake." Bake in a deep pan 

34. Gold Cakk. — Yolka of \ doz. eggs ; flour 5 cups ; white 
sugar 8 cup* ; butter 1 cup ; cream or sweet milk 1^ cups ; soda 
^ tea-spoon • cream of tartar 1 tea-spoon. Bake in a deep loaf 
pan. 

IJeat th» eggs with the sugar, having the butter softened 
by the fire ; then stir it in ; put the soda and cream of tar- 
tar into the cream or milk, stirring up and mixing all to- 
gether ; then sift and stir in the tieur. 

1'he gold and silver cakes droj)ped as directed in the 
" Marbled XJs4fe," gives you still another variety. 

35. EaiDE Cake. — Presuming that this work may fall 
into the hands of some persons who may occasionally have 
a wedding amongst them, it would be imperfect without a 
" wedding cake," and as I have lately had an opportunity 
to test this one, upon "such an oecasion," in my own family, 
I can bear testimony, so can tht ''printer," to its adapts- 
uon for ail similar displays. 



»R. •HA.8S A EB0I1>ES. 

Take butter 1^ lbs. ; sugar If lbs., half of whicli is to be CH^ 
leans sugar ; eggs well beaten, 2 lbs. ; raisins 4 lbs. ; having thfl 
seeds taken out, and chopped ; English currants having the grrt 
picked out and nicely washed 5 lbs. ; citron, cut fine, 2 lb» 
filled flour 2 lbs. ; nutmegs 2 in number, and mace as much in 
bulk ; alcohol 1 gill to i pt., in which a dozen or fifteen drop» 
cf oil of lemon iSive been put. 

When ready to make your cake, weigh your butter and 
cet it in pieces, and put it where it will soften, but not. welt 
Next, stir the butter to a cream, and then add the sugar, and 
work till white. Next beat the yolks of the eggs, and put 
them to the sugar and butter. Meanwhile another person 
should beat the whites to a stiff froth and put them in. Theii 
add the spices and flour, and, last of all, the fruit, except the 
citron, whiahis to be put in about three layers, the bottom 
layer about one inch from the bottom, and the top one, an 
inch from the top, and the other in the middle, smoothing 
the top of the cake by dipping a spoon or two of water 
upon it for that purpose. 

The pan in which it is baked should be about thirteen 
inches across the top, and five and a half or six inches deep, 
without scollops, and two three-quart pans also, which it will 
fill ; and they will require to be slowly baked about three to 
four hours. But it is impossibl-j to give definite rules as to 
the time required in baking cake. Try whether the cake ia 
done, by piercing it with a broom splinter, and if nothing 
adheres, it is done. 

Butter the cake pans well ; or if the pans are lined with 
buttered white paper, the cake will be less liable to burn. 
Moving cakes while baking tends to make them heavy. 

The price of a large " Bride Cake," like this, would be 
about twelve dollars, and the cost of making it would be 
about three dollars only, with your two small ones, which 
would cost as much to buy them as it does to make the whole 
three. 

The foregoLag was written and printed over a year ago. 
The daughter came home, and took dinner with us, one year 
from the marriage ; and her mother set on some of the cake 
as nice and moist as when baked. 

36. Fruit Cake. — As side accompanimenta to the "Bride 
Cake," you will require several " Fruit Cakes," which are to 
bo made as follows : 



"bakers' and COOK.INQ DEPARTMENT. 289 

Butter, sugar, English currants, eggs, and flour, of each 5 lbs 
Mix as ir the " Bride Caiie." 

Bake in about six cakes, which would cost from one doi 
lar and fifty cents to two dollars a-picce, if bought for tU« 
occasion. 

37. FKoe-riNG, on Ictno, fob Cakes. — The whites of 8 egg« 
beat to a perfect froth aud stiff; pulverized white sugar 2 lbs.; 
starch 1 table-spoon ; pulverized gum arable i oz. ; the juice oi 
1 lemon. 

Sift the sugar, starch, and gum arabio into the beaten egg, 
tnd stir well and long. When the cake is cold lay on a coat 
of the frosting ; it is best not to take much pains in putting 
on the first coat, as little bits of the cake will mix up with 
it, and give the frosting a yellow appearance ; but on th« 
next day, make more frosting the same as the first, and apply 
a second coat, and it will be white, clear, and beautiful. 
And by dipping the knife into cold water as applying, you 
can smooth the frosting very nicely. 

38. Excellent CRACKEits. — Butter 1 cup ; salt 1 tea-spoon ; 
Qour 2 qts. 

Rub thoroughly together with the hand, and wet up with 
cold water; beat well, and beat in flour to make quite brittle 
and hard ; then pinch off pieces and roil out each cracker by 
itself, if you wish them to resemble bakers' crackers. 

39. SuGAU CuACKEits.— Flour 4 lbs. ; loaf sugar and butter, 
of each i lb. ; water li pts. Make as above. 

40. Natlks BiacoiT.— White sugar, eggs, and flour, of eaca 
lib. 

If properly pulverized, sifted, beat, mixed, and baked 
the size of Boston crackers, you will say it is nice indeed. 

41. BucKWira> r Suokt-cake. — Take 8 or 4 tea-cups of nice 
sour milk, 1 tea-epoon of soda-saleratus dissolved in the milk ; if 
the milk U very sour, you must use saleratus in proportion, witii 
i» little salt ; mix, up a dough with buckwheat flour, thicker th«u 
fou would mix the same for griddle-cakes, say quite stitf; put 
mto a buttered tin, and put directly mto the stove oveu and 
bake about 30 minutes ; or aa you would a short-cake from com- 
mon flour. 

It takes the place of the griddle-cake, also of the shorv 
cake, in every sense of the word — nice with meat, butter, 
honey, molasses, &c No shortening is used, and no need 
of setting your dish of batter over night, for a dmnkeo 

— COPY RIGHT SECURED. 10 



290 DR. CHASE'a RECIPES. 

husband to set his foot in. Wet the top a little, and warm 
it up at next meal, if any is left — it is just as good as whea 
firet made, while griddle-cakes have to be thrown away. It 
h also very good, cold. 

"Was the beaut}' of this cake known to the majority of 
persons, throughout the country generally, buckwhea( 
would bcconjc as staple an article of commerce as the com- 
mon wheat. Do not fail to give it a trial. Some persons, 
in trying il, have not had good luck the fii-st time ; they 
have failed from the milk's being too sour for the amount of 
saleratus used, or from making the dough too thin. I 
think I can say we have made it hnmlnJs of times with 
success, as f could eat it while dyspeptic, when I could eat 
no other warn) bread. 

43. Yeast Cake.— Good lively j-cast 1 pt.; rye or wheat floui 
to form a tliit-k batter; salt 1 tea-si)Oon ; stir in and set to use 
when lisen, svir in Indian meal, until it will roll out good. 

When again risen, i-oll out very thin; cut them intc 
cakes and dry in the shade ; if the weather is the leas! 
damp, by the fire or stove. If dried in the sun, they will 
"crraent. 

To use: Dissolve one in a little warm water, and stir in 
a couple of table-spoons of flour; set near the fire, and 
when light, mix into the bread. If made perfectly dry, 
they will keep for six mouths. 

BREADS— Yankee Brown Bkead. — For each good sized 
loaf being made, tuke H pts. corn meal, and pour boiling water 
upon it, to scald it properly ; let stand until only blood warm. 
lUen put about 1 (it. of r3'e flour upon the meal, and pour in a 
good bowl of emj)tyings, with a little saleratus dissolved in a 
gill of water, kneading in more flour, to make of the consistence 
of common bread. If you raise it with yeast, put a little salt ib 
Die meal, but if you raise it with salt-risings, or emptymgt 
wliich I prefer, no more salt is needed. 

Form into loaves, and let them set an hour and a half, oi 
Until light ; in a cool place, in summer, and on the hearth, 
or under' the stove, in winter; then bake about two hours- 
Make the dough fully as stilf as for wheat bread, or a little 
harder ; for if made too soft it does not rise good. The old 
style was to use only one-third rye flour, but it does not 
wear if made that way ; or, in other words, most persons ge< 
tired of it when mostly corn meal, but I never do whs 
rao><tly rye flour. 



bakers' and cooking department. 291 

Let all persons bear iu mind that bread should never bo 
•dten the day on which it is baked, and poutively must this 
bfc observed by dyspeptics. Hotels never ought to be with- 
out this bread, nor families who care for health. 

2 Graham Bread. — I find in Zion's Herald, of Boa- 
ton, edited by Rev. E 0. Haven, formerly a Professor in 
the University at this city, a few remarks upon the " Differ 
ent Kinds of Bread," including Graham, which so full 
explain the philosophy, and true principles of bread- 
making, that I give them an insertion, for the benefit of 
bread-makers. It says : 

" Rice flour added to wheat flour, enables it to take up 
an increased quantity of water," [See the " New French 
Method of Making Bread."] " Boiled and mashed potatoes 
mixed with the dough, cause the bread to retain moisture, 
and prevent it from drying and crumbling. Bye makes a 
dark-colored bread ; but it is capable of being fermented 
and raised in the same manner as wheat. It retains its 
freshness and moisture longer than wheat. An admixture 
of rye flour with that of wheat, decidedly improves the lat 
ter in this respeet. Indian corn bread is much used in thi. 
country. Mixed with wheat and rye, a dough is produced 
capable of fermentation, but pure maize meal cannot be fer- 
mented so as to form a light bread. Its gluten lacks the 
tenacious quality necessary to produce the regular cell-struc- 
ture. It is most commonly used in the form of cakes, made 
to a certain degree light by eggs or sour milk, and saleratus, 
and is generally eaten warm, Indian corn is ground into 
meal of various degrees of coarseness, but is never made so 
fine as wheaten flour. Bread or cakes from maize require 
a considerably longer time to be acted upon by heat in the 
baking process, than wheat or rye. If ground wheat be 
unbolted, that is, if its bran be not separated, wheat meal or 
Graham flour results, from which Graham or dyspepsia 
bread is produced. It is made in the same general way as 
other wheaten bread, but requires a little peculiar manage 
ment. Upon this point, Mr, Graham remarks : 

The wheat meal, and especially if it is ground coarsely, swells 
consioerably in the dough, and therefore the dough should not 
at first be made quite so stiff as that made of superSse flour ; and 
when It is raised, if it is foimd too soft to mould well, a litUe 



i^ PK. CUASK'a KKC1P£8. 

more mtsal may be added It should be remarked that dough 
made of wheat meal will take on the acctoua fermentation, or 
become sour sooner than that made of line flour. It rcquircB f 
hotter oven, and to be baked longer, but must not stand so long 
after being mixed before baking, as that made from flour. 

3. BuowN BitEAD Biscurr. — Take com meal 2 qts.; rye flom 
8 pts.; wheat flour 1 pt.; molasses 1 tiible-apoon ; yeast 3 tab!» 
spooiiS, having so<ia 1 tea-spoon mixed with it. 

Knead over night for breakfast. If persons will eat warm 
cread, this, or buckwheat short-cake, should be the only kinds 
eaten. 

4. Dyspeptics' Biscuit and Coffek. — Take Graham-flour 
(wheat coarsely ground, without bolting,) 2 qts.; com raeal sifl- 
ed, 1 qt.; butter i cup; molasses 1 cup; sour milk to wet it up 
with siUeratus' as for biscuit. 

Roll out and cut with a tea-cup and bake as other biscuit , 
and when cold they are just the thing for dyspeptics. And 
if the flour was sifted, none would refuse to eat them : 

Fob the Coffee. — Continue the baking of the above 
biscuit in a slow oven for six or seven hours, or until they 
are browned through like coffee. 

DiHECTiONS. — One biscuit boiled } of an hour will be p'ent) 
for 2 or 3 cups of coffee, and 2, for persons ; serve with crean 
4ud sugar as other cofloe. 

Dyspeptics should chew very fine, and slowly, not driokiDg 
until the meal is over ; then sip the coffee at their leisure, 
not more than one cup, however. This will be found very 
nice for common use, say with one-eighth coffee added ; 
hardly any would distinguish the difference between »t and 
that made from coffee alone. The plan of buying ground 
ccffee is bad ; much of it is undoubtedly mixed with peas, 
which you can raise for less than fifteen or twenty o<>uta a 
pound, and mix for yourself. 

5. London Baker's Superior Loap Bread. -Th« 
Michigan Farmer gives us the following j any one c»n f.o« 
:hat it contains sound sense : 

" To make a half-peck loaf, take f lb. of well boiled «ealy 
potatoes, mash them through a fine cullender or coarse neve , 
add i pt. of yeast, or J oz. of German dried-yeast, and H P* o^ 
luke-warm water, (88 deg. Fab:.} together with } lb. of floiu, to 
render the mixture the consistence of thin batter; this mixture 
is to be set aside to ferment: if set in a warm place it will nae 
bi le^ than 2 hours, when it resembles yeast, except in ooioc. 



bjM<t.as' AND COOKING DEPARTMENT. 293 

Tlje sponge so made is then to be mixed with 1 pt. of water, 
nearly blood warm— viz. 93 deg. Fahr., and poured into a halt, 
peck of tlour, which has previously had 1^- ozs. of salt mixed into 
it ; the whole should tlien be kneaded into dough, and allowed 
to rise in a warm place fcr 2 hours, when it should be kneaded 
tuto loaves and baked." * 

The object of adding the maslied potatoes is to increa:«e 
the amount of fermentation in the fipouge, which it does tc 
a very remarkable degree, and consequently, renders th« 
bread lighter and better. The potatoes will also keep the 
bread moist. 

(5. Old Baciieloh's Buead, Biscuit, ok Pie-Ckust.— Fioui 
1 qt. ; cream of tartar 2 tea-spoons ; soda | tea-spoon ; sweet 
milk to wet up the flour to the consistence of biscuit dough. 

Rub the flour and cream of tartar well together ; dissolve 
the soda in the milk, wetting up the flour with it and bake 
immediatdi/. If you have no milk, use water in its place, 
adding a spoon of lard to obtain the same richness. It 
does well for pie-crust where you cannot keep up sour milk. 

7. New Fiiencii Method of JIaking Bread. — Take rice j 
lb.; tie it up in a thick linen bag, giving ample room for it to 
swell ; boil it from 3 to 4 hours, or until it becomes a perfect 
paste; mix this while warm with 7 lbs. of flour adding the usual 
quantities of yeast and salt ; allow the dough to work a proper 
time near the fire, then divide into loaves. Dust them in, and 
knead vigorously. 

This quantity of flour and rice makes about thirteen and 
one-half lbs. of bread, which will keep moist much longei 
than without the rice. It was tested at the London Poly 
technic Institute, after having been made public in France, 
with the above results. 

8. Bakino Powt)er8, for Biscuit Without Shortening. 
— Bi-c.'u-bonate of soda 4 ozs.; cream of tartar 8 ozs.; and properly 
dry them, and thoroughly mix. It should be kept in well corked 
bottles to prevent dampness which neutralizes the acid. 

Use about three tea-spoons to each quart of flour being 
baked ; mix with milk, if you have it, if not, wet up with 
cold water ajid put directlij into the oven to bake. 

TIES.— -Lemon Pie, Extra Nice. — One lemon; water 1 cup; 
brown sugar 1 cup ; flour 2 table-spoons ; 5 eggs ; white sugar 2 
table-spoons. 

Grate the rind from the lemon, squeeze out the juice, 
and chop up the balance very fine ; put all together aad 



294 DR. chase's KECIPE8. 

add the water, brown sugar, and flour, working the mass 
into a smooth ]>aste; beat the eggs and mix with the paste, 
Raving the whites of two of them ; make two pics, baking 
with no top crust ; wliile these are baking, beat the whites 
of tlr<! two eggs, saved for that purpose, to a stiff froth and 
stir iu the wliite sugar; when the pies are done, spread this 
frosting evenly over them, and set again in tlx; oven and 
brown slightly. 

2. PiE-CiiLST Glaze. — In making any pie which has 
a juicy mixture, the juice soaks into tlie crust, making it 
soggy and unfit to eat j to prevent this : 

Beat an egg well ; and with a brusli or bit cf cloth, wet the 
crust of the pie ■\vilh the beaten egg, just before you put in the 
pie mixture. 

For pies which have a top crust also, wet the top with 
the same bei'ore baking, which gives it a beautiful yellow 
brown. It gives beauty also to biscuit, ginger cakes, and is 
iust the thing ibr rusk, by putting iu a little sugar. 

3. ArPLE l^iE ■WHICH is Dioestibi.e. — Instead of mix 
ing up your crust with water and lard, or butter, making it 
very rich, with shortening, as customary for apple pies : 

Jlix it up (vciy way just ns you w ouid for biscuit, using sour 
milk and salernius, wiih a li'ttk lard or butter only ; mix the 
dough quite stirt, roll out rathcT Ihiii, lay it upon your tin, oi 
plate ; aud liaving ripe ajjides sliced or chopped nicely and laid 
on, rather thick, and sugar according to the acidity of the ap- 
ples, then a top crust, and bake Avell, putting the I'gg upon tlie 
crusts, as mentioned in the "Tie Crust Glaze," and you have got 
a pie that is fit to eat. 

But when you make tlie rich crust, and cook the apples 
and put them on, it soaks the crust, which does not bake, 
and no stomach can digest it, whilst our way gives you a 
nice light crust, and does not take half the shortening of 
the other plan ; yet perhaps nothing is saved pecuniarily, 
a:; butter goes as finely with the biscuit-cru.st-pies, when hot, 
as it does with biscuit ; but the pie is digestible, and wher 
it is cold, does not taste bad to cut it up on your plate, 
with plenty of sweetened cream. 

4. Apple Ccstakd Pie — The Nicest Pie ever Eaten.— 
Peel so>u- a])i>lcs and 8tew nntil soft and not much water left in 
them; then rub tliem throiigli a cullender — beat 3 eggs for each 
pie to be baked ; and put in at the rate of 1 cup of butter and 1 
of sugar for y !>>»; sesison with nutmeg 



BAKllRS' AND COOKING DEPARTMENT. 295 

My ■wife has more recently made them with only 1 egg to each 
pie, vath only half of a cup of butter and sugar each, to 4 or 5 
pitw; but the amount of sugar must be governed sometvhat by 
the cicjdity of tho apples. 

Bake as pumpkin pies, which they resemble in appear- 
ance; and between them and apple pies in taste j very nice 
indeed. "We find them equally nice with dried apples by 
Diakiny: them a little more juicy. 

If a frosting was put upon them, as in the "Lemon Pie,** 
(hen returned, fur a lew moments, to the oven, the appear- 
ance, at least, would be improved. 

5. Appi.k Custard, Very Nice. — Take tart apples, that are 
Quite juicy, and stew and rub them, as in the recipe above, ano 
to 1 pt. of the apple, beat 1 eggs and put in, vviih 1 table-spoon 
ol sugar, 1 ol butter, and i of a grated nutiiitg. 

Bake as other custardt!. It is excellent; a ad makes a 
good substitute for butter, apple butter, &c. 

G. Pastk for Tarts. — Loaf sugar, flour, and butter, equal 
weights of each; mix thonuighly by beating with a rolling-pin, 
for half an hour ; folding up ai;d bcatiijg again and again. 

"When properly mixed, pinch ofF small pieces and roll out 
each crust by itself, which causoh them to dish so as to hold 
the tart-mixture. And if you j/ill have a short pie-crust, 
this is the plan to make it. 

PUDDINGS— Biscuit Puddimo, "Without Re-Baking.— 
Take water 1 qt. ; sugar i lb. ; butter the size of a hen's egg; 
Qjur 4 table-spoons; nutmeg, grated i of one. 

Mix the flour with just sufficient cold water to rub up ali 
the lumps while the balance ol the water is heating, mix 
all, and split the biscuit once or twice, and put into this 
cravy while it is hot, and keep hot until used at table. It 
uses up cold biscuit, and I prefer it to riv;her puddings. It 
18 indeed worth a trial. This makes a nice dip gravy also 
for other puddings. 

2. Old English Christmas Plum Pudding — Tho 
llarrisburg Tekf/raph furnishes its readers with a recipe for 
the real " Old English Christmas Plum Pudding." After 
having given this pudding a fair test, lam willing to endorse 
every word of it ; and wish for the holiday to tome oftcnei 
than once a year : 

"To make what is called a pound pudding; take of raisini 



296 i>R. chask'h recipes. 

well stoned bat not choppetl, currants thonjug''..'- w-asbcd, 1 lb. 
t'iich; chop suet 1 lb. very finely, and mix wilti tn«'m-, add i lb. 
of flour or bread very finely crumbled ; 3 ozs. of sucar ; 1 i ozs 
of grated lemoa peel, a blade of mace, | of a small nutmeg, 1 
tea spoon of ginger, | doz. of eggs, well beaten; work it well to- 
gether, put it in a cloth, tie it firmly, allowing room to swell ; put 
it into boiling water, and boil not less than two hours. Ilohould 
not be sutfered to stop boiling. 

The cloth, when about to be used, should be dipped into 
oiling water, squeezed dry, and floured ; and whei the 
pudding is done, have a pan of cold water ready, and dip 
it in for i. moment, as soon as it comes out of the pot, which 
prevents the pudding from sticking to the cloth. For a dij)- 
gravy for this or other puddings, see the "Biscuit l*udding, 
without Re-Baking," or "Spreading Sauce for Puddings." 

3. Indian Pudding, To B.^kf. — Isice sweet milk 1 qt. ; but- 
ter 1 oz. ; 4 eggs, well beaten ; Indian meal 1 tea-cap; raisins ^ 
lb. ; sugar i lb. 

Scald the milk, and stir in th<i meal whilst boiling; then 
let it stand until only blood-warpi, and stir all well togeth- 
er, and bake about one and a half hours. Eaien with sweet- 
ened cream, or either of the pudding saucer mentioned in 
tlie " Christmas Pudding." 

4. Indian Pudding, To Boil. — Indian mcaj 1 qt.. with a 
little salt; Oeggs; sour milk 1 cup ; saleratus 1 tea-spoon; rai 
sins 1 lb. 

Scald the meal, having the salt in it ; when cool stir in 
the beaten eggs ; dissolve the saleratus in the milk and stir 
in also, then the raisins; English currants, dried, currants, 
or dried berries, of any kind, answer every purpose, and are, 
in fact, very nice in place of the raisins. Boil about one 
and a half hours. Eaten with sweetened cream or any of 
the pudding sauces. Any pudding to be boiled must not 
be put into the water until it boils, and taken out a.* soon as 
'one, or they become soggy and unfit to eat. 

5. Quick Indian Pudding. — Take 1.1 cups o*" sour milk; 2 
eggs well beaten ; 1 small tea-spoon of saleratus; dissolved in 
tiie milk; then sift in dry corn meal, and stir to the consistence 
of corn bread; then stir in ^ lb. of any of the fruits mentioned 
above; or, if you have no fruit, it is quite nice without; 

Tie up and boil one hour ; sweetened cream with a little 
nutmeg makes a nice sauce. As I have just eaten of thui 
for my dinner, I throw it in extra, for it is worthy. 



BAKEES' AND COOKINQ DEPAJITMBNX. 297 

6. Flour Pudding, To Boil. — When persons have 
plenty of dried apples or peaches, aad not much of the 
smaller fruits ; or desire to change fn-ui them in puddings : 

Take wheat flour sufficient to make a good pan of biscuit, and 
mix it up as for biscuit, with sour m'lij, saleratus, and a little 
Outter or lard, roll out rather thicker than for pie-crust; r.ow 
having your apples or ]ieaciies nicely stewed wet the crust ovci 
fith the " Pie Crust Glaze," then spread a layer ol the fruit upon 
i», adding a little sugar, as it lies upon the table; and if you 
I boose, scatler over them a handful of raisins, or any otlier of 
tiie dried fruits mentioned ; '•oil up the whole together, and boil 
1 hour. 

Eaten with any sauec »vhieh you may prefer, but the 
corn meal puddings ar-? Miuch the most healthy, and I pre- 
fer their taste to those made from flour. 

7. Potato PuDDiNe. — Rub through a cullender G large or 12 
middle sized potatoes ; beat 4 eggs, mix with 1 pt. of good milk ; 
stir in the iiotatoes, sugar and "seasoning to taste; butter the 
dis^h ; bake i an hour. 

This recipe is simple and economical, as it is made of 
ivhat is wasted in many families, namely, cold potatoes ; 
tvhich may be kept two or three days, until a sufficient 
quantity is collected. To be eaten with butter. 

8. Gkekn CoiiN PuDDiKo. — Green corn, raw, 2 doz. ears ; 
evvcet milk 3 to 4 qts.; 6 eggs ; sugar 1 to 2 cups. Salt to suit 
'he taste. 

Split the kernels lengthwise of the ear with a sharp 
knife ; then with a ca.se knife scrape the corn from the cob, 
which leaves the hulls on the cob ; mix it with the milk 
and other articles, and bake from two to three hours. To 
be eaten with butter and sugar. 

9. Si'EAMED PcDDiKG. — Two eggs ; sugar 1 cup; sour milk 1 
cup; saleratus t^ tea-spoon ; a little salt; dried whortleberries, 
currants, raisins, or other fruit 1 cup ; flour. 

Beat the eggs and stir in the sugar; dissolve the salera 
tu.s in the milk, and mix in also the fruit and salt ; then 
thicken with flour, rather thicker than for cake ; put into a 
iwo-quart pun and set in the steamer, and steam an hour 
uad a half; and I think it will crack open on the back — if 
not, try again. It is worth the trotfble, especially if you 
Sttixe plenty of sweetened cream. 

10. Spueading Sauck. for PuDDiKOB.— -Butter 4 ozs.; sugai 
ozs.; 1 nutmeg. 



29S DR. chase's recipzs. 

Grate the uutineg, and rub all together; these are aoout 
the proper proportions, hut more or less can be made, aa 
desired, and more or le«s nutmeg can also be used; or any 
other flavoring in their place. This sauce is nice on baked 
puddings, hot or cold ; and to tell it all, it is not bad or 
bi'^ad. Sec the " Biscuit Pudding," for dip-sauces. 

DOMESTIC DISIIP^S— GuEEN Cokn Omelet.— Green con. 
boiled 1 do/., cars ; 5 eggs ; salt and pepper to suit the taste. 

llemove the corn from the cob, as mentioned in the 
" Green Corn Pudding." The splitting allows the escape 
of the pulp, whilst the hull is held by the cob ; season, 
I'urm into small cakes, and ivy to a nice brown, and you 
have a veiy nice omelet. 

2. APPLES — To Bake— Steasiboat Style— Bettei;. tha]» 
PuESEHVES. — Take moderately sour apples, when ripe ; and 
wilh a pocket-kuile cut out the stem, and flower-end also, so aa 
U) rciuove the skin troni thewe cup-shaped cavities ; wash tbem, 
aiid place them iu a dripping-pan ; now fill these cavities wilb 
brown su^ar, and pretty freely between them also, with sugar; 
then lay on a. lew lumps of butter over the sugar; place them, 
thus ananged, int« the oven w hen you begin to heat m\) the 
stove for breakfast or dinner, and keep them in until perl'tcily 
bilked llirough and soft. 

Take them up on plates, while hot, by means of a spoon, 
and dip the gravy, arising from the apple-juice, sugar and 
butter, over them. Should any of them be left, aftpr the 
meal is over, set them by until the next meal, when they 
may be placed in the stove oven until hot, and th^y will 
have all the beauty of the first baking. Or perhaps some 
persons may prefer them fried, as follows : 

8. Fkieu Apples — Extra Nice. — Take any nice sou»- cook- 
ing apples, and, after wiping them, cut into slices about one- 
ionrth of an inch thick: have a frying-jmn ready, in which 
there is a small amount oi lard, say | or f of an inch in depth. 
The lard must be hot before the slices of apples are put in. Let 
one side of them fry until brown; then turn, and put a small 
quantity of sugar on the browned side of each slice. By the 
lime Dip, other side is browned, the sugar will be melted" aiid 
spread over the whole surface. 

Serve them up hot, and you will have a dish good 
enough for kings and tjueens, or any poor man's breakfast ; 
and 1 think that even the President would not refuse a fe»» 
iilices, if properly cooked. There is but little choice be- 



bakers' and cooking depaetment. 299 

;;ween frying and baking by tbcse plans; either one w 
very nice. 

4. Apple Fiuttehs. — Sour milk 1 pt. ; saleratusl tea-spoon; 
flour to make a battel- not veiy stiff; G apples, pared and cored , 
3 eggs. 

Dissolve the saleratus in the milk ; beat the eggs, and 
put in ; then the flour to make a soft batter ; chop the ap 
pics to about the size of small peas, and mix them well ii: 
the batter. Fry them in lard, as you would dough-nuts 
Eaten with butter and sugar. 

5. Appi,e IMekange. — An Excellent Substitute for Pik 
oii Pudding. — First, take a deep dish and put a bottom 
crust into it, as for a pie; have nice sour apples, pared, sliced, 
and stewed, SAveetcning slightly; place a layer of the stcMcd 
apple upon the crust, say about half an inch in thickness, then 
put on a layer of nice bread, spread with butter, p.s for eating, 
then another layer of the apjile ; now place in the oven and bake 
as a pudding, or pie; when done, have the whites of eggs beat- 
en and rni.xed with a little loaf or other white sugar, say 2 eggs 
tor a 2-quart dish; place this upon the merange alid return it to 
the oven for a few minutes, to brown the egg mixture, or frost- 
ing. Serve with sugar dissolved in a little water, adding a little 
iKiiter, with nutmeg, or lemon, as desired or preferred. 

fi Bread, To Fut— Better than Toast.— Take bread that 
IS dry; the dryer the better, so it. is not mouldy; first dip it 
ralln-r quickly into cold Avatcr, then into eggs which are well 
beat, liaving a little salt in them ; then immediately fry for a 
o)r./rt time in hot lard until the surface is a pretty yellow or 
light orcwu, according to the heat of the lard. 

I have never eaten bread cooked in any form which suits 
me a.s well as this. But the following is very nice. 

7. Toast— Ger.man Style.— Bakers' bread 1 loaf, cut into 
slices of half an inch in thickress; milk 1 qt. ; 3 eggs, and 
a little salt ; beat the eggs and mi.x them with the milk", and fla- 
vor as for custard, not cooking it however. Dip the sliced bread 
into the mixture occasionally until it is all absorbed ; then fry 
the pieces upon a buttered griddle. Serve, for dinner, with su 
gar syrup, flavored with lemon. 

This is the German style of making toast; but is quite 
good enough for an American. And I have no doubt that 
home-made bread will ansAvcr all purposes ; ours does, cer- 
tainly. 

8. liACK-wooDS PuESEKVES — ]\roderately boil a pint of mo- 
iftfibes, from 5 to 20 minutes, according to its eonsifU'Ucy ; then 



8O0 Da. CBAS£'8 RECIPES. 

add 3^ ®^g8, thoroughly beaten, hastily stirring lU^m in, and con- 
tinut, boil a few minutes longer ; then season with a nu meg 
or lejEon. 

Do not fail to give it a trial. 

9. Fkkncii Honey. — White sugar 1 lb.; 6 ofgs, leavinjj out 
the whites of 2; the juice of 3 or 4 lemons, and l'>e grated riml 
of 3; and i lb. of butter. Siir over a slow fire until it is tbou 
tlie consistency of honey. 

This and the la.st, will be found to come much ne«re 
what they represent, than the Yankee's "\Vood<»a nuti»iegs'' 
did, upDn trial 

10. Muffins. — To each qt. of sweet milk adc' 2 eg^ w^ll 
beaten ; a lump of butter half the size of an cp,<;, auo fioiu 
enough to make a stiff batter. Stir in i pt. of yeas*; let tliein 
stand until jierfectly light, and then bake on a gnddle, n tin 
rings, made for that purpose. 

These are merely strips of tin, three-quarters of ar inch 
wide, made into rings from two and a half to three inches 
in diameter, without bottom — the ring being simuly placed 
on a griddle, and the batter poured in to fill it. 

11. Mock Ovstehs. — Si.\, nice, plump, ears ^f rwcet 
corn, uncooked; grate from the cob; beat 1 egg, stirnutr ii^to it 
Hour and milk, of each 1 table-spoon ; season with a 'Tttle salt 
aiul pepper. Put about a tea-spoon of butter into a sujiuble pan 
l<ir frying, having mixed in the corn also, drop the mixture into 
the liot butter, one spoon of it in a place, turning them so as to 
Iry brown. Serve hot, for breakfast. 

Whether they imitate i ysters or not, no one need regret 
giving them a trial. 

\2. Frlit Jams, Jv,lmks, a.nd Prkskrvk:* — The 
difference between comnu"^.! preserves, jellies, and iams, is 
this : I'rcsen-es are made by taking fruit and sugar, pound 
for pound, and simply cooKing them together until the 
fruit is done. 

VS. Jellies are made by squeezing and straining out 
the juice only, of the fruit; then taking a pound of sugar 
for a pound of juice, and cooking until it jells, which is 
told by taking out a little upon a cold plate. 

14. J.\MS are made by weighing the whole fruit, wa.«h- 
ing, slicing, and putting in sufficient water to cook it well, 
then when cool, rubbing it through a fine sieve, and with 
tliLs pulp, putting in as inncli sugar as there was of tin 



BAKEKS* AND OOOKINQ DEPARTMENT. 801 

fruH noly, and cookiug it very ciirelully, until tlic weight 
or' tDe jam is tlie same as the I'ruit and added sugar ; the 
K'iter, you see, is all gone; and this is easily told by having 
pr«vioaaiy weighed the kettle in which you are cooking iu 
The jam, if nicely done, contains more of the friiit flavor 
than the jell, and is as valuable as the jell to put into water as 
a drink for invalids ; and better for flavoring syrups foj 
B«»da-fouutaics, &c. Strawberries, raspberries, blackberrios 
jxiacr.cs, ana pine-apples, make very nice jams for flavoring 
syrups. Much of the flavor of the fruit resides in the 
skin, pits, &c. And jams made in this way, from the black- 
berry, are good for sore mouth, diarrhea, dysentery, &c. 

15. IhiuiT Extracts.— Best alcx)ho! 1 pt.; oil of lemon 1 oz.; 
peel of 2 lemons. 

Break the peels, and put in with tliC others for a few 
days : then remove them, and you will have just what you 
desire, for a trifling cost, compared with the tt?enty-fivo 
cent bottles, which are so prominently set out as the nicest 
tiiins^ in the world. 

This rule holds good for all fruit oils ; but for fruits, 
such as peaches, pine-apples, strawberries, raspberries, 
blackberries, &c., you will take alcohol and water equal 
parts, and put upon them suffipient to handsomely cover ; 
and in a few days you have the flavor and juices of the 
fruit, upon the principle of making " Bounce," which most 
men know more or less about. If persons will act for 
themselves, using common sense, working from known facta 
iike these, they will not need to run after every new-fangled 
thing which is seen blazing forth in almost every advertise- 
ment of the day. 

Vanilla, nutmeg, mace, cinnamon, &c., are made by cutr 
tii.g up the vanilla bean, or bruising the nutmegs, cinnamon, 
&c., and putting about two ounces to each pint of pure 
spirit, or reduced alcohol, frequently shaking for about two 
weeks, and filtering or pouring off very carefully; if foi 
sale, however, they must be filtered ; for coloring any of 
the extracts see the " Essences," and " Syrups." For cakea 
and pies, however, it is just as well to pulverize nutmegs, 
mace, cinnamon, &c., and use the powder, for the quantity 
required is so small tjiat it will never be seen in the cake or 
pie. 



802 DB. chase's recipes. 

MEDICATED WATERS— Rose Water— Take carbonate 
of magnesia i oz.; oil of rose 30 drops ; drop the oil upon lue 
magnesia, and rub it together ; then add, rubbing all the time, 
of distilled water, if you can get it, 1 qt., if not, take the purest 
rain or snow water,— a porcelain mortar is best, but a bowl doei 
very well-, — then filter througli filtering paper. 

The magnesia breaks up the oil globules and enables the 
waier to take it up ; and the filtering removes the magnesia. 

2. Cinnamon Water. — Use the same amount of o_ maeneeia, 
and water, and treat the same as the " Rose Water." 

3. Peppermint, Spear.mint and Penntrcyal Waters ire 
made the same as above. 

4. Campitor Water. — To make camphor water, you must 
first put on a few drops of alcohol ; say 40 or 50 drops, to 
camphor gum i oz.; and rub the camphor fine, which eDniblofl 
you to v»'ork it up with magnesia i oz.; then gradually add water 
1 qt., as mentioned in the waters above, and filtered. 

The rose and cinnamon waters are used for cooking but 
the others for medical purposes. 



MISCELLANEOUS DEPARTMENT. 

WASHING FLUID— SAAaNG Half the Wash Board La 
BOR. — Sal-soda 1 lb.; stone lime i lb.; water 5 qts.; boil a short 
time, stirring occasionally ; then let it settle and pour off the 
clear fluid into a stone jug and cork for use; soak your white 
clothes over night, in simple water ; wring out, and soap whst- 
bands, collars, and dirty or stained places; have your boiler half 
filled with water, and when at scalding heat, put in one common 
tea-cup of the fluid, stir and put in your clothes, and boil for 
half an hour; then rub lightly through one suds only, rinsing 
well in the bluing water, as usual, and all is complete. 

If you wish to wash on Monday, put warm suds to the 
clothes whilst breakfast is being got ready ; then wring oul 
and soap as above, will do just as well aa soaking them ovoi 
night, and my wife thinks better. 

For each additional boiler of clothes add half a cup of 
the fluid only ; of course boiling in the same water through 
the whole washing. If more water is needed in the boiler 
for the last clothes, dip it from the^ sudsing tub. Soak 
your woolen and calico in the suds from which you have 



MISCELLANEOUS DEPjLaTMENT 803 

washed the white clothes, whilst hanging them out, dipping 
in some of the boiling water from the boiler, if necessary ; 
then wash out the woolen and calico as usual — of course, 
washing out woolen goods before you do the calico. The 
fluid brightens instead of fading the colors in calico. 

This plan not only saves the two rubbings which women 
give their clothes before boiling, and more than half of the 
soap — does not injure the clothes, but saves their wear in 
two rubbings before boiling; and is a good article for re- 
moving grease from floors, doors, and windows, and to re- 
move tar or grease from the hands, &c. 

I hope every lady into whose hands this recipe may fall, 
will give it a trial, as my family have now used it over seven 
years, not missing only two washings. It does not rot 
clothes, but makes them wash full or more than one-half 
eaiiier than the old way. Seven years ought to be considered 
a sufficient test. 

The honor of this recipe is accredited to Prof. Liebig, of 
Grermany. 

I have found many women using turpentine, alcohol, am- 
monia, camphor gum, &c., in their washing fluids ; but none 
of them ought ever to be used for such purposes (one wo- 
man lost the use of her arm, for six months, by using a 
fluid containing turpentine) ; the -turpentine and alcohol es- 
pecially, tend to open the pores of the skin, and thus make 
the person more liable to take cold in hanging out the clothes, 
as also to weaken the arm. 

And here let me say, if it is possible to avoid it, never 
iillow the woman who washes the clothes, and thus becomes 
warm and sweaty, to hang them out ; and especially ought 
this to be regarded in the winter or windy weather. Many 
consumptions are undoubtedly brought on by these frequently 
repeated colds, in this way. It works upon the principle 
that two thin shoes make one cold, two colds an attack of 
bionchitis, two attacks of bronchitis one consumption — the 
end, a coffin. 

LIQUID BLUING— For Clothes.— Most of the blu 
iug sold is poor stuff, leaving specks in the clothes. To 
avoid this: 

Take best Prussian-blue, pulverized, 1 oz. ; oxalic acid, also 
pulverized, i oz. ; soft water 1 qt. Jlix. Th« acid dissolves the 



5U4 PR. CUA8£':i UKCIPISS. 

bhic and liolUs it evenly in the water, so tlmtsiieckingwIllncTcl 
lake place. One or two table-spoons of it is sufficient for a tub 
of water, according to the size of tlic tub. 

Chinese-blue, when it can be got, is the best, and onlj 
costs one shilling an ounce, with throe cents for th« acid, 
will give better satisfaction than Mty cents worth of the 
common bluing. This amount has now lasted my famiU 
over a year 

bOAPy — Soft Soap — For Half thk Expense akd Oni 
FouiiTH THE TuouuLE OF THK Old Way — Take white-bar eos j 
4 lbs., cut it tine and dissolve, by he.ating in soft w.iter 4 s^al-.; 
adding sal-soda 1 lb. When all is dissolved and well mixed \l 
is done. 

Yellow soap does very well, but Colgate's white, ifl stud 
to be the best. But our " White Hard Soap" is the same 
kind. 

This soap can be made thicker.or more thin, by using more 
or less water, as you may think best after once making it. 
Even in common soft soap, if this amount of sal-soda is put 
into that number of gallons, washing will be done much 
easier, and the soap will more than compensate for the ex 
pense and trouble of the addition. 

2. German Ek-vsive, or Yei.i.ov 8o\p. — Tallow anjH aai-soda, 
of e!\ch 112 lbs.; rosin 56 lbs.; stone lime 28 lbs.: palm-oil 8 
lbs. ; soft water 28 gals. ; or for (tmall qunntities, tallow and sal- 
soda, of each 1 lb. ; rosinTozs. ; stone lime 4 ozs. ; palm-oil 1 
oz. ; soil water 1 qt. 

Put soda, lime, and water into a kettle and boil, stirring 
well ; then let it settle and pour off the lye. In anotlier 
kettle, melt the tallow, rosin and palm-oil ; having it hot, 
the lye being also boiling hot; mix all together stirring 
well, and the work is done. 

y. Hard Soap, with Lard. — Sal-soda and lard, of each 6 lbs. 
stone lime 3 lbs. ; soil water 4 gals. ; dissolve tlie lime and soda 
in the water, by Iwiling, stirring, settling and pouring off; tlien 
return to the kettle (brass or copper) and add the lard and boil 
until it becomes soap ; then pour into a dish or moulds, and 
when cold, cut it into bare and let it dry. 

This recipe was obtained by finding an over-coat with it 
in the pocket, and also a piece of the soap; the man kept it 
with him, as it irritated his salt-rheum so much less than 
other soaps. It has proved valuable for washing genejtllyj 



MISCELLANEOUS DEPARTMENT. 805 

and also for shaving purpoBca. It would be hotter than 
half the toilet soaps sold, if an ounce or two of sassafras 
oil was stirred into this amount ; or a little of the soap 
might be put in a separate dish, putting in a little of th« 
eil, to correspond with the quantity of soap. 

4. White Hard Soap, wits Tallow. — Fresh slacked lime, 
Sil-soda, and tallow, of each 2 lbs. ; dissolre the soda in 1 gal. 
ooilin^ soft water ; now mix in the lime, stirring occasionally 
or a lew hours; after which let it settle, pouring off the clear 
liquor and boiling the tallow therein until it is all dissolved ; 
cool it in a flat ])0x or pan, and cut into bars, or cakes, as pre- 
ferred. 

It can be flavored with sassafras oil, as the last, by stirring 
it in when cool ; it can be colored also if desired as men- 
tioned in the " Variegated Toilet Soap." 

When any form of soda is used in making soap, it is 
necessary to use lime to give it causticity ; or, in other 
words, to make it caustic ; which gives it much greater pow- 
er upon the grease, by removing the carbonic acid ; hence 
the benefit of putting lime in the bottom of a leach when 
making soap from common ashes. 

a. Tkansparent Soap. — Take nice yellow bar soap 6 lbs.; 
cut it thin and put into a brass, tin, or copper kettle, with alco- 
liol i gal.; heating gradually over a slow fire, stirring until all is 
dissolved ; then add an oui^ce of sassafras essence, and stir unti'". 
well mixed ; now pour into pans about 1^ inches deep and when 
cold, cut into square bars, the length or width of the pan, as 
desired. 

This gives you a nice toilet soap for a trifling expense, 
and when fully dry it is very transparent. 

G. One Utjndred Pounds op Good Soap for $1.80. — Take 
potash 6 lbs., 75 cts. ; lard 4 lbs., 50 cts. ; rosin i lb., 5 cts. 

Beat up the rosin, mix all -together, and set aside for five 
days ; then put the whole into a ten gallon cask of warsi 
water, and stir twice a day for ten days ; at the expiration 
i)f which time you will have one hundred pounds of excel- 
lent soap. 4 

7. Chemical Soft Soap. — J. Hamilton, an English 
gentleman, and proprietor of the Eagle Hotel, Aurora, In- 
diana, makes his soap for house use, as follows : 

Tslie grease 8 lbs. ; caustic soda 8 lbs. ; sal-soda 1 lb. ; molt 
'he ifrease in a kettle, melt the sodas in soft water 4 gals., and potir 

— DR CUASE's RKCIPES. 



306 DR. CHASE'S BECIFES; 

all into a barrel holding 40 gals, and fill up with softwatei, aad 
the labor is done. 

When the caustic soda cannot be obtained of soap-makers, 
you will make it by taking ssoda-ash and fresh slacked lime, 
of each eight pounds ; dissolving them in the water with 
the sal-soda, and when settled, pouring off the clear liquid 
as in the " White Hard Soap with Tallow." 

8. Soap without Heat. — Mr. Tomilson, writing to 
Judge Buel, says : 

" My wife has no trouble about soap. The grease is put into 
a cask, and strong lye added. During the year, as the fat in- 
creases, more lye is stirred in ; and occasionally stirred with a 
stick that is kept in it. By the time the cask is full, the soap is 
made for use." 

There is no mistake about this manner of making soap. 
The only object of boiling is to increase the strength of 
weah lye and hasten the process. 

9. Windsor, oe Toilet Soap. — Cut some new, white bar soap 
into thin slices, melt it over a slow fire, and scent it with oil of 
caraway ; when perfectly dissolved, pour it into a mould and 
et it remain a week, then cut it into such sized squares as you 

may require. 

10. Variegated Toh^et Soap. — Soft water 3 qts. ; nice whita 
bar soap 3 lbs. ; sal-soda 2 ozs. ; Chinese vermilion, and Clii- 
nese blue, of each, as much as will lie on a 5-cent piece ; oil of 
sassafras \ oz. 

Shave the soap fine, and put it into the water as it begins 
to boil ; when dissolved, set it from the fire ; take out a 
cup of the soap and stir in the vermilion ; take out another 
cup of the soap and stir in the blue ; then pour in one of 
the cups and give two or three turns only with the stirring 
stick ; then put in the other in the same way ; and finally 
pour into a suitable box ; and when cold it can be cut into 
bars ; or it can be run in moulds, if desired ; it will be- 
come hard in a short time ; giving most excellent satisfac- 
tion. If stirred thoroughly, after putting in the colors, il 
would be all of a mixed color ; but giving it only two or 
three turns, leaves it in streaks, most beautiful. 

Soap manufacturers generally use soda, in preference to 
wood-ashes, because less troublesome ; and to make it mora 
caustic, or, in other words, to absorb the carbonic-acid-gas, 
they must put about pound for pound of recently slacked 



MISCEHfANEOLS DEPARTMENT. 307 

lime with soda-ash, or sal-soda ; dissolving by heat or stir- 
ring; or by both; using sufficient water to make the lyo 
support a Iresh lain egg, and drawing it off clear of the lime 
sediment. Thirteen hundred pounds of thetunow, ortheie- 
abouts, with the lye, makes one ton of white boap ; and yel- 
low soap, by using ten hundred of tallow and luiec hundred 
and fifty of yellow rosiu, for each ton, boiling »vitli the \ye. 
until they unite ; then pouring into frames, luauo to fit one 
upon another, to cool and harden ; finally uiicing off one 
frame at a time, and with a wire, having a handle at each 
end to draw it with, cut into slices, then baid, and cording 
up, as wood, to dry. If wood-ashes are useci, plenty of lime 
must be put into the bottom of the leach. 

TALLOW CANDLES— Foil Sumxee UsE.—Most 
tallow, in summer, is more or lc»s soft and often quite yel- 
low, to avoid both : 

Take your tallow and put a little bees-wax with it, especially 
a, your bees-wax is dark and not lit to sell ; put into a suitable 
kettle, adding weak lye and gently boil, an hour or two each day 
for 3 days, stirring aud skimming well ; each morning cutting it 
out and scraping off the bottom which is soft, adding fresh lye 
(be sure it is not too strong) 1 or 2, or 3. gals., according to the 
amount of tallow. The third uiorning use water in which alum 
and saltpetre is dissolved, at the rate of 1 lb. each, for 30 lbs. of 
UiUow ; then simmer, stir, and skim again ; let cool, and you can 
lake it off the water for use. 

They may be dipped or run in moulds ; for dipping, allow 
two pounds for each dozen candles. 

Saltpetre and alum are said to harden lard for candles; 
but it can be placed amongst the humbugs of the day 
But I will give you a plan which is a little shorter for hard- 
ening tallow ; either will work well, take your choice : 

2 Tatlow — To Cleanse and Bleach. — Dissolve alum 5 lbs., 
in water 10 gals., by boiling; and when it is all dissolved, add 
tallow 20 lbs. ; continue the boiling for an hour, constantly stir 
ring and skimming ; when sufficiently cool to allow it, strain 
through thick muslin ; then set aside to harden ; when taken 
ft cm the water, lay it by for a short time to drip. 

Dip or mould, as you please, not expecting them to ''run" 
in summer nor " crack" in winter. They will also bura 
very brilliantly, at which, however, you will not be sur- 
prised when you consider the amount of filth thrown off ia 
cleansing. 



308 DR. CHASK'S E£CIPES. 

FENCE POSTS— To Prevent Rotttno.— A corres- 
pundcDt of the American Agriculturalist says : 

" 1 think it would be well to call the attention of farmers to 
the use of coal-tar as a paint. The tar produced in coal gas- 
works is extensively used in England for painting fences, out 
buildings, &c. ; and is being introduced in this country, also. It 
necer alters by exposure to the weather ; and one or two goon 
coats will last for many years. It is the cheapest and best blues 
paint that can be used. Our buildings are painted with it ; all 
our apparatus also ; and even the wrought-iron pipe we place iu 
the ground is coaled with it. I think if its advantages were 
fully known, it would be generally used throughout the United 
States. The Government soak the brick used in building the 
fort at Throg's Neck in this tar, which renders them impervious 
to water ; and posts painted with it are protected from rot, when 
in the ground, as effectually as if they had been charred." 

I know this tar is much more effectual than charring, and 
is not one-tenth the trouble. There are posts near this city, 
which have now been set over ten years, and yet no appear- 
ance of decay. The coating is still periect also. 

The only objection to it as a paint above ground, is ita 
offensive smell, from the heat of the sun. 

No persons should allow themselves to set a single past 
without its application, and farmers who are putting out 
uiuch fence, cannot possibly be so short-sighted as to neg- 
lect it alter it once comes to their notice. 

it is doubly important to Railroad-Companiea from the 
fact that these roads run through the most level portions of 
30untry, and consequently the most swampy and wet, there- 
fore fence posts are the more liable to rot. The mode of 
application is as follows : 

Have a large iron kettle so arranged tiiat you can make aua 
keep the tar hot, then, after having removed the bark, if any, 
6ft the end of the post into the tar ; and if the tar is not sura- 
ciently deep to take the post into it as far as you wish to tar it 
have a swab of cloth tied upon a broom-handle or other slick, 
and swab it up at least 6 to 10 inches above the ground-line 
when the post is set ; then lift up tlie post, letting it drip a mo 
ment, and lay it away upon rails or poles placed for that pur 
pose, not allowing them to touch each other until dry. 

Two men will tar about five hundred posts in one day ; 
and one barrel of tar will be sufheient for that number 
Who then will hesitate to adopt its use 'i especially when 
the tar can be purchased at the g:is-works for about two dol- 
lars per barrel 



MIS0ELLAN£OUS U£PABTMENT. 809 

MEATS— TO preserve-Beef— To PiCKLK for LoNd 
h^EKPiNG. — FiKST, thoroughly rub salt into it and let it remain 
III bulk for 24 hours to draw off the blood. Second, take it up 
U;tting it drain, and pack as desired. Third, have ready a 
pickle prepared as follows : — For every 100 lbs. of beef, use 7 lbs. 
01 salt ; saltpetre and cayenne pepper, of each 1 oz.; molasses 1 
^i., and soft water 8 gals.; boil and skim well; and when cold 
pour it over the beef. 

This amount will cover one hundred pounds, if it ha 
oecu properly packed. I have found persons who use noth 
mg but salt with the water, and putting on hot, scalding 
again at the end of three weeks and putting on hot again. 
The only object claimed for putting the brine on the meat 
while hot, is, that it hardens the surface, which retains tho 
■\uices, instead of drawing them oif. 

2. The Michigan Farmer's Method. — Is, " for each 100 lbs. 
of beef, use salt 5 lbs.; saltiwtre i oz. ; brown sugar 1 lb.; dis- 
solve in sufficient water to cover the meat — two weeks after take 
up, drain — throw away the brine— make more the same as first, 
it will keep the season through — when to be boiled for eating, 
put into boiling water — for soups into cold water." 

I claim a preference for the first plan, of drawing oiF 
the blood before pickling, as saving labor ; and that tho 
cayenne and saltpetre improves the flavor and helps preserve; 
and that boiling and skimming cleanse the brine very much. 
Of late years I pursue the following : 

3. Beef — To Pickke for Winter or Present Use, and 
«"OR Drying. — Cut your beef into sizable pieces, sprinkle a little 
salt upon the bottom of the barrel only, then pack your heo.F 
without salt amongst it, and when packed pour over it a brriv 
made by dissolving G lbs. of salt for each 100 lbs. of beef in just 
Bufflcieut cold water to handsomely cover it. 

You will find that you can cut and fry as nice as fresh, 
for a long time ; just right for boiling, also ; and when it 
gets a little too salt for frying, you can freshen it nearly as 
nicely as pork, for frying purposes, or you can boil of it, 
then make a stew for breakfast, very nice indeed. By the 
other plan it soon becomes too salt for eating, and the juices 
are drawn oflF by the salt. In three weeks, perhaps a littie 
loss, such pieces as are designed for drying will be ready to 
hang up, by soaking over night to remove the salt from the 
outside. Do not be afraid of this way; for it is very nice 
for winter and drying purposes; but if any is loft until 



310 DE. chase's recipes. 

* 

warm weather, throw away this brine, put salt amongst whal 
is left and cover with the first brine, and all is right f'oi 
Long keeping. 

4. Mutton Hams — To Pickle for DRvrNO. — First take 
weak brine and put the bams into it for 2 days, then pour o8 
and apply the following, and let it remain on from 2 to 3 weeks, 
according to size : For each 100 lbs.; take salt 6 lbs. ; saltpetre 1 
oz. ; saleratus 2 ozs. ; molasses 1 pt. ; water gals., will cove> 
these if closely packed. 

The saleratus keeps the mutton from becoming too hard. 

5. CuRiNO, Smoking, and Keeping Hams. — Rosb 
Cottage, Muncie, Ind., Nov. 26th, 1859 : I noticed an 
article in the Gazette of yesterday, headed as above, from 
the pen of Mr. Alexander Brooks, taken from the Rural 
New Yorker^ and as I have some useful experience in that 
line, I desire to suggest my plan for curing and keeping : 

To a cask of hams, say from 25 to 30, after having packed 
them closely and sprinkled them slightly with salt, I let them lie 
thus for 3 days ; then make a brine sufficient to cover them, by 
putting salt into clear water, making it strong enough to bear 
up a sound esrg or potatoe. I then add i lb. of saltpetre, and a 
gallon of molasses ; let them lie in the brine for G weeks — they 
arc then exactly right. I then take them up and let them drain ; 
then while damp, rub the flesh side and the end of the leg with 
finely pulverized black, red, or cayenne pepper; let it be as fine 
AS dust, and dust every part of the flesh side, then hang them 
ip and smoke. You may leave them hanging in the smoke- 
jouse or other cool place where the rats cannot reach them, as they 
are perfectly safe from all insects ; and will be a dish fit /or a 
t'rince, or an American citizen, which is better. 
Respectfully yoiu-s, 

Tno's. J. Sample. 

I find that Mr. Sample uses twice as much saltpetre and 
double the time, for my eating, but perhaps not for general 
market. 

If Grocers will take this plan for preparing their hamg 
and shoulders, there will be no need of sacking; and such 
as they buy in during the summer should recieve a coat of 
pepper immediately, to prevent annoyance from flies. 

6. T. E. Hamilton's Maryland Method. — The 
hams of Maryland and Virginia have long enjoyed a wide 
celebrity. At one of the exhibitions of the Maryland State 
Agricultural Society, four premiums were awarded for 



MI8CKLLANK0US DEPARTMENT. 311 

hams. The one which took the first premium, was cured 
by Mr. T. E. Hamilton, from the following recipe : 

" To every 100 lbs. take best coarse salt 8 lbs. ; saltpetre 2 ozs ; 
brown sugar 2 lbs.; potash IJ ozs.; and water 4 gals. Mix the 
above, and pour the brine over the meat, after it has lain in the 
tub for some 2 days. Let the hams remain G weeks in the brine, 
and then dry several days before smoking. I have generally 
had the meat rubbed with fine salt, when it is packed down." 

The meat should be perfectly cool before packing. The 
potash keeps it from drying up and becoming hard. 

7. Pork — To Have Fresh from Winter Killing, for 
Summer Frying. — Take pork when killed in the early part of 
the winter, and let it lay in pickle about a week or 10 days ; oi 
until just sufficiently salted to be palatable ; then slice it up and 
fry it about half or two-thirds as much as you would for pres- 
ent eating ; now lay it away m its own grease, in jars properly 
covered, m a cool place, as you would lard. 

When desired, in spring or summer, to have fresh pork, 
take out what you wish and re-fry suitable for eating, and 
you have it as nice as can be imagined. Try a jar of it, and 
know that some things can be done as well as others. It is 
equally applicable to hams and shoulders, and I have no 
doubt it will work as well upon beef, using lard sufficient 
to cover it. So well satisfied am I of it that I have put in 
beef-steak, this spring, with my fresh ham, in frying for 
»ummer use. It works upon the principle of canning fruits 
to exclude the air, I put in no bone. 

8. Salt Pork for Frying — Nearly Equal to 
Fresh. — For the benefit of thoaa who are obliged to use 
considerable salt pork, the following method much improves 
it for frying : 

Cut as many slices as may be needed; if for breakfast, the 
mght previous, and soak till morning in a quart or two of milk 
ftnd water, about one-half milk, skimmed-niilk, sour milk, or 
buttermilk ; — rinse till the water is clear and thee Ay. It is 
nearly or quite as nice as fresh pork, — both the fai and lean 
parts. 

Occasionally I like to have this rolled in corn meal before 
frying, as it makes such a nice imitation of fresh fish. 

9. Fresh AIbat — To Keep a Week or Two, in Summku.— 
Farmoi-s or others, living at a distance from butchers, can keep 
fresh meal very nicely, tor a week or two, by putting it into sour 
uiilk, or birtter-milk, placing it in a cool cellar. The bone or fat 
flced not be removed. 

Kiuae well when used. 



312 DR. chase's recipes. 

10. Smoked Meat — To Preserve for Years, or vor 
Sea Voyages. — How often are we disappointed in our hopes 
of having sweet hams during the summer 1 After carefully 
curing and smoking, and sewing them up in bags, and white- 
washing them ; we often find that either the fly has com- 
menced a family in our hams, or that the choice parts around 
the bone are tainted, and the whole spoiled. 

Now this can be easily avoided, by packing them in pulvei 
ized charcoal. No matter how hot the weather, nor how thick 
the flies ; hams will keep, as sweet as when packed, loi years. 
The preservative qualityof charcoal will keep Ihemtill chArcoal 
decays ; or sufficiently long to have accompanied Cook three 
timea around the world. 

11. The Kural New Yorker's Method.— It says ; " lu the 
Sprifg, cut the smoked ham in slices, fiy till partly done, pack 
in a stone jar alternate layers of ham and gravy. If the Lam 
should be very lean, use lard for gravy. Be sure and fry the 
ham in the lard, so that it will be well seasoned. When wanted 
for use, take up, finish frjdng, and it is ready for the table." 

The only trouble is, that we can't keep it half long 
enough, it is so good and handy. 

12. The New England Farmer's ** Saving his 
Bacon." — About a couple of years ago, we were enter- 
tained, at the house of a friend, with a dinner of eggs and 
bacon. We complimented our host on the superior quality 
of his bacon ; and were curious to inquire the way to like suc- 
cess in the preparation of a dainty article of diet, though one 
chat is better fitted for the palate of an epicure than for the 
stomach of a dyspeptic. To our surprise we were informed 
that that portion of our meal was cooked eight months 
before. 

Upon asking for an explanation, ho stated that it was h'la 
practice to slice and frj' his bacon immediately on its being 
cured, an«l then pack it in its own fat. "When occasion came 
for using it, the slices, slightly re-fried, have all the freshncfsa 
and flavor of new bacon just prepared. By this precaution, our 
friend always succeeded in " Saving 7m bacon," fresh and sweet, 
through the hottest of weather. — AVw England Farmer. 

I have no doubt but what it will do as well to pack meata 

fried in this way, in tubs or barrels as in jars j but I rather 

prefer covered jars, putting a couple of thicknesses of cloth 

over the jar before putting on tho cover j placed in a cool 

cellar. 



MISCELLANEOUS DEPARTMENT. 8U 

[ also find it ucceesary to put in lard occasionally as you 
»re frying, as there is not generally enough brought out by 
the iVying to fill the crevices between the slices, which mu<»* 
be filled. 

CANNING FRUITS— Peaches and Pears.— After paring 
and coring, put amongst them suflBcient sugar to make them 
palatable for present eating,— about 3 to 4 lbs. only for each 
bushel ; let them stand a while to dissolve the sugar, not using 
ftuy water ; then heat to a boil, and continue the boiling, with 
care, from 20 to 30 minutes ; or sufficiently long to heat through 
which expels the air. 

Have ready a kettle of hot water, into which dip the can 
long enough to heat it ; then fill in the fruit while hot^ 
corking it immediately, and dip the end of the cork intr 
the " Cement for Canning Fruits." When cold it is bes 
to dip the second time to make sure that no air holes are 
left which would spoil the fruit. All canned fruits are to 
be kept in a very cool cellar. 

We have, yesterday and to-day, been eating peaches put 
ap in this way, two years ago, which were very nice indeed. 
See " Peaches, To Peel." 

2. Bkhries, Plums, Cherries, &c. — Raspberries, blackber- 
ries, whortleberries, currants, cherries, and plums, need not bfc 
boiled over 10 to 15 minutes ; using sugar to make palatable, in 
(ill cases ; as it must be put in some time, and it helps to pre- 
serve the fruit, 

Ihey require the same care in heating cans, &c., a& 
above, for peaches. 

3. Strawberries. — For strawberries, put sugar i lb. for each 
lb. of berries ; and proceed as for berries above. 

Strawberries are so juicy, and have such a tendency to 
fermentation, that it is almost impossible to keep them I 
have found it absolutely so, until I adopted the plan of 
using the amount of sugar above named ; if others can do 
wich less, they can benefit the public by telling me how 
tney do it. 

5. Tomatoes. — For tomatoes, scald and peel them as for other 
cooking; then scald, or rather boil for about 15 minutes only, 
and can as above. 

Or what I think best, is to use a little salt, and put them 
into haH-gallon jugs ; for we want them in too great quanti- 
ti«ffl t« jtop on a few glass jars, such as we use for othei 



814 DK- chase's recipes. 

fruits ; as for tin cans, I never use them ; if you do use 
tin cans for tomatoes it will not do to use salt with them, aa 
?t has a tendency to cause rust. 

6. Cement for Canning Fruits. — Rosin 1 lb. ; lard, tallow 
and bees-wax, of each 1 oz. 

Melt and stir together ; and have it hot, ready to dip into 
when canning. 

7. Rural New Yorker's" Method. — The editor says ; 

From four years experience with, not only strawberries, but 
peaches, cherries, raspberries, pine-apples, &c., without losiug a 
single jar, the flavor being also perfect : Use only self-sealing 
glcm jars. Put into a porcelain preserving kettle, enough to fill 
two, quart jars ; sprinkle on su^ar J lb.; place over a slow fire 
and heat through, fwt cooked. While the fruit is heating, keep 
the jars filled with hot water. Fill up to the brim, and seal im- 
mediately. 

As it cools a vacuum is formed which prevents bursting. 
In this way every kind of fruit will retain its flavor. Some- 
times a thick leathery mould form, on the top — if so, all the 
better. 

CATCHUP— Tomato Catchup— Take perfectly ripe 
tomatoes \ bushel; wash them clean and break to pieces; then 
put over the fire and let thena come to a boil, and remove from 
the fire ; when they are sufficiently cool to allow your hands in 
them, rub through a wire sieve; and to what goes through, add 
salt 2 tea-cups ; allspice and cloves, of each, ground, 1 tea-cup ; 
best vinegar 1 qt. Put onto the 'fire again and cook 1 hour, 
stirring with great care to avoid burning. Bottle and seal for 
use. If too thick when used, put in a little vinegar. If they 
were very juicy they may need boiling over an hour. 

This recipe is from Mrs. Hardy, of the American Hotel, 
Dresden, 0., and is decidedly the best catchup which I have 
ever tasted ; the only fault I have ever heard attributed to 
it was, " I wish we had made more of it." " We have not 
got half enough of it," &c. But there are those who can- 
not use tomatoes in any shape ; such persons will, undoubt- 
edly like the following : 

2. Currant Catchup. — Nice fully ripe currants 4 lbs. ; sugar 
1^ lbs.; cinnamon, ground 1 table-spoon ; salt, with ground cloves 
and pepper, of each 1 tea-spoon ; vinegar 1 pt. 

Stew the currants and sugar until quite thick; then add 
the other ingredients, and bottle for use. 



MISCELLANEOUS DEPARTMENT. 315 

PKESER\'ES — Tomato Preserves. — As some per- 
sons will have preserves, I give them the plan of making 
the most healthy of any in use : 

Take ripe, scalded and peeled tomatoes 13 lbs. ; nice, scalding 
hot molasses 1 gal. ; pour the molasses upon them and let stand 
12 hours i then boil until they are properly cooked ; now skim 
out the tomatoes, biit continue boiling the syrup until quite 
thick ; then pour again upon the tomatoes and put away as otlier 
preserves. A lable-spoon of ginger tied up in a bit of cloth and 
boiled in them, gives a nice flavor ; or the extracts can be used ; 
or lemon peel, as preferred — if sugar is used, pound for pound is 
the amount. 

But I prefer to put them, or any other fruit, into jugs, 
cans, or bottles, which retains the natural flavor and does 
not injure the stomach, which all preserves do, to a greater 
or less extent. Yet I give you another, because it does so 
nicely in place of citron, in cakes. 

2. PilESEUATED WaTKR-MeLON IN PlACE OP CiTRON, FOR 

Cakes. — The harder part of warter-melon, next the skin, made 
into preserves with sugar, equal weights ; cooking down the 
syrup rather m<jre than for common use, causes it to granulate, 
iike citron, which is kept for sale. 

This chopped fine, as citron, makes an excellent substi- 
tute for that article ; and for very much less cost. Call in 
the neighbors, to help eat about a dozen good sized melons, 
knd you have outside enough for the experiment ; and if 
the Doctor is near he will help without a fee! They are 
Dice, also, in mince-pies in place of raisins. 

CURRANTS— To Dry with Sugar.— Take fully ripe cur 
rants, stemmed, 5 lbs.; sugar 1 lb.; put into a brass kettle, stir- 
riug at first, then as the currants boil up to the top, skim them 
off; boil down the juicy syrup until quite thick and pour it over 
tiie currants, mixing well ; then place on suitable dishes, and 
dry them by placing in a low box over which you can place 
musketo-bar, to keep away flies. 

When properly dried, put in jars and tie paper over them. 
Put cold water upon them and stew as other fruit for eating 
or pie-making, adding more sugar if desired. 

TIN- WARE— To Mend by the Heat of a Candle.— Take 
a vial about two-thhds full of muriatic acid, and put into it, little 
bits of sheet zinc, as long as it dissolves them ; then put in a 
crumb of sal-ammoniac and fill up with water, and it is ready to 
use. 

With the cork of the vial wet the place to be mended. 



JR. CHA»£ a RKCII'KS. 

with the preparation ; tbcn put a piece of Bhoet zinc orev 
the hole and hold a lighted candle or spirit lamp under the 
place, which melts the solder on the tin and causes the zinc 
to adhere without further trouble. Wet the zinc also with 
the solution. Or a little solder may be put on in place of 
the zinc, or with the zinc. 

WATER FILTER— Home-made.— Rainwater is mucli 
healthier than hard water as a beverage; and the following 
will be found an easy and cheap way to fit it for drinking 
purposes : 

Have an oak tub made, holding from half, to a barrel, accord- 
ing to the amount of water needed in the family; let it stand en 
end, with a faucet near the bottom; or, I prefer a hole through 
the bottom, near the front aide, with a tube in it which prevents 
the water from rotting the outside of the tub ; then put clean 
pebbles 3 or 4 inches m thicknest* over the bottom of the tub ; 
now have charcoal pulverized to the size of small peas {tLi>t 
made from hard maple is best) and put in half a bushel or so it 
a lime ; pound it down quite firmly, then put in more and pou id 
again until the tub is filled to within 8 mches of the top ; a.*d 
again put on 2 inches more of pebbles; then put a piece of ck ja 
wliite flannel over the whole top as a strainer. 

The flannel can be washed occa.sionally, to remove Cxq 
impurities collected from the water, and it might be weU to 
put a flannel between the pebbles and flannel at the botU.m 
also. When the charcoal Decomes foul, it can be rene^.ed 
as before, but will work a whole season without renewiag. 
Put on your water freely until it becomes clear ; when you 
will be as well satisfied as you would be if it run through a 
patent filter, costing six times as much as this. 

A large jar to hold the filtered water can be set in an .ce- 
box if preferred ; or an occasional piece of ice can bt put 
in the water ; but if the filter is set in the cellar, v*s it 
should be, the water will be sufl&ciently cool for ht ilth. 
This makes a good cider filter, also, first straining the < ider 
hrough cotton to free it from the coarsest pomace. 

TIRE — To Keep on the Wheel. — A correspond at of 
♦he Southern Planter e,2L^% : " I ironed a wagon some years 
ago for my own use, and before putting on the tires I filled 
the fellies with linseed-oil ; and the tires have worn on h, and 
were never loose. \ ironed a buggy for my own use seven 
years ago, and the tires are now as tight as when \ at oa 



MI8CELI.ANE0U8 DEPARTMENT. 317 

My method of filling tho fellies with the oil is as follows . 

I use a long, cast iron oil-heater, made for the purpose ; the 
cil is brouglit to a boiling lieat, llie wheel is placed on a stick, 
so as to hang in the oil, each felly an hour, for a common sized 
felly. The timber should be dry, as green timber will not take 
oil. Care should be taken that the oil be not made hotter than 
a boiling heat, in order that the timber be not burnt. Timber 
oliUed with oil is not susceptible to water, and is much more du- 
rable." 

I was amused some time ago when I told a blacksmith 
how to keep tires tight on wheels, by his telling me it was 
a profitable business to tighten tires ; and the wagon maker 
will say it is profitable to him to make and repair wheels — 
but what will the farmer, who supports the wheel-wright 
and the blacksmith say? The greatest good to the greatest 
u umber, is my motto. 

WEEDS— To Desteoy in Walks.— The following 
method to destroy weeds is pursued at the mint in Paris, 
with good effect : 

Water 10 gals. ; stone lime 20 lbs. ; flour of sulphur 2 lbs 
Boil in an iron kettle ; after settling, the clear part is to be 
poured off and sprinkled, freely, upon the weedy walks. 

Care must be taken, for it will destroy weeds ; and ar 
certainly destroy edging and border flowers, if sprinkled oo 
them. 

CEMENTS — Cement fok China, &c., which Stands Firb 
AND Watek. — With a small camel's-hair brush, rub the broken 
edges with a little carriage oil- varnish. 

If neatly put together, the fracture will hardly be per 
oeptible, and when thoroughly dry, will stand both fire and 
watei . 

2. Russian Cement. — Much is said about cements; but 
there is probably nothing so white and clear, and certainly 
nothing better than he following : 

Russian isinglass dissolved in pure soft water, snow water is 
bes>; for it takes 12 hours to soften it by soaking in pure soft 
water, then considerable heat to dissolve it ; after which it is ap- 
plicable to statuary, china, glass, alabaster, «&c., &c. 

In all cements the pieces must be secured until dry. It 
i< easy to reason that if twelve to fifteen hours are required 
lo 8oft«u this isinglass that no dish- washing will ever effect 



818 Da. grass's recipes. 

it. You may j udge from the price whether you got the 
Russian, for thirty-seven cents per ounce, is as low as the 
genuine article can be purchased in small quantities, whilst 
the common, bear a price of only from ten to twelve cents_ 
»nd even less. 

3. Cement, Cubap and Valuaule. — A durable cement ii 
Diade by burning oyster-shells and pulverizing the Vimc from 
them very fine; then mixing it with white of egg to a thick 
paste and applying it to the china or glass, and securing the 
pieces together until dry. 

When it is dry, it takes a very long soaking for it to become 
soft again. I have lifted thirty pounds by the stom of a 
wine-glass which had been broken, and mended with this 
cement. Conimou lime will do, but it is not so good ; either 
should be fresh burned, and only mix what is needed, for 
when once dry you cannot soften it. 

4. Cement — Water-Proof, for Cloth or Belting.— 
Take ale 1 pt. ; best Russia isinglass 3 ozs. ; put ihem into a com- 
mon glue kettle and boil until the isinglass is dissolved ; then 
add 4 ozs. of the best common glue, and dissolve it with the 
other; then slowly add IJozs. of boiled linseed-oil, stirring all 
the time while adding, ajid imtil well mixed. When cold it will 
resemble India-rubber. When you wish to use this, dissolve 
what you need in a suitable quantity of ale to have the consis- 
tence of thick glue. It is applicable for earthenware, china, 
glass, or leather ; for harness ; bands for machinery ; cloth belia 
tor cracker machines for bakers, &c., &c. If for leather, shave 
olf as it for sewing, apply the cement with a brush while Juit, 
laying a weight to keep each joint firmly for 6 to 10 hoars, oj 
over night. 

This cement will supersede " Spaulding's Prepared Glue/' 
and all the white cements you can scare up, if you use 
good articles to make it of, — not less than thirty or forty 
cents a pound for common glue, and three shillings per 
ounce for the Russian isinglass ; but the expense of thii« 
will cause it only to be used when dampness is to be con- 
tended with. 

If you have not a glue kettle, take an oyster can ana 
punch some holes through the top of it, putting in a string 
to suspend it on a stick in a common kettle of boiling wa- 
ter, and keep it boiling in that way. 

5. Cement, or Fu}{niture Glue, for House Use. — To 
mend marble, wood, glass, china and ornamental ware— take 
water 1 gal. ; nice glue 8 lbs ; white lead 4 ozs. ; whisky 3 qta. 



MISCELLANEOUS DEPARTMENT. 319 

Mix by dissolving the glue in the water ; remove from 
the firo and stir in tlie white lead, then add the \»hisky, 
which keeps it fluid, except in the coldest weather. Warm 
and stir it up when applied. 

6. Whiie Cement.— Take white (fish) ghie, 1 lb. 10 ozx ; drj 
wUite lead 6 ozs. ; soft water 3 pts. ; alcohol 1 pt. 

DLssolvo the glue by putting it into a tin kettle, or dish, 
ooutaining the water, and set this dish into a kettle of wa- 
ter, to prevent the glue from being burned ; when the glue 
is all dissol /ed, put in the lead and stir and boil until all is 
thoroughly mixed ; remove from the fire, and, when coo^ 
enough to bottle, add the alcohol, and bottle while it is yet 
warm, keeping it corked. This last recipe has been sold 
about the country for from twenty-five cents to five dollars, 
and one man gave a horse for it. 

7. Geuman Cement. — Two measures of litharge, ami 1 each 
of unslacked linic and flint glass; each to be pulverized sepa- 
rately before mixing ; llieu to use it, wet it up with old drying-oil. 

The Germans use it for glass and china ware only. Wa- 
*er hardens it instead of softening. 

8. Scn.\r-BooK Paste, or Cement. — A piece of common 
glue, 2 square inches ; dissolve it iu water, adding as much pul- 
vt.'rized alum, iu weight, as of the "glue ; uow mix fiour i^ tea- 
ep(j():i in a little water; stir it in and boil. When nearly cool 
slir in oil of lavender 2 tea-spoons. 

This should make a pint of paste, which will keep a lonji; 
time if tightly covered when not in use. 

Cement— Pueventinq Leaks about Chimneys, &c. — Dry 
(?and 1 pt. ; ashes 2 pts. ; clay dried and pulverized 3 pts. ; all to 
DC pulverized and mixed into a paste with linseed-oil. 

Apply it while soft, as desired, and when it becomes hard, 
water will have no effect upon it. It may be used for walks, 
ind I think it would do well in cisterns, and on roofs, &c. 

MAGIC PAPER.— Used to Transfeu Figures in E.\t- 
Bi?on>ERY, OR Impressions of Leaves for IIerbviuums. — 
'lake lard-oil, or sweet-oil, mixed to the consistence of cream, 
wUh either of the following paints, the color of which is desired : 
Pruiiian blue, lamp-black, Venitian red or chrome green, either 
of (vhich should be rubbed, with a knife on a plate or stone un- 
til smooth. Use rather thin, but firm paper; put on with a 
epi;uge and wipe off as dry as convenient; then lay them be- 
tween nncolored paper, or between newspapers, and press by 
laying books or some other flat substance upon them, until the 
fui-plua oil is absorbed, v;hen it is ready for use. 



820 DR. CHAR£'» RECIPES. 

Directions. — For taking off patterns of embroidery 
place a piece of thiu paper over the embroidery to prevent 
soiling; then lay on the magic paper, and put on the cloth 
you wish to take the copy on, to embroider ; piu fast, and 
rub over with a spoon handle ; and every part of the raised 
figure will show upon the plain cloth. To Uike impressions* 
of leaves on paper, place the leaf between two sheets of 
this paper, and rub over it hard, then take the leaf out and 
place it between two sheet:^ of white paper; rub again, and 
you will have a beautii'ul impression of both sides of the 
leaf or flower. Persons traveling without pen or ink, can 
write with a sharp stick, placing a sheet of this papar 
over a sheet of white paper. 

RAT DESTROYERS— Rat Exterminatou.— Flour 3 lbs ; 
water only sufficient to make it into a thick paste ; then dissolve, 
pliosphorus 1 oz., in butter li oz., by heat. Mix. 

This you will leave, thickly spread on bread, whore rata 
can get at it ; or make into balls, which is preferable, cov- 
ered or rolled with sugar. If it is desired to sell this article 
and you wish to color to hide its composition, work into it 
pulverized turmeric 2 oz. Or r 

2. Take warm water 1 qt.; lard 2 lbs.; phosphorus 1 oz. Mil, 
kud thicken with tiour. 

It is found best to make only in small quantities, as 
the phosphorus loses its power by exposure. Some will ob- 
ject to killing rats about the house ; but I had rather smell 
their dead carcasses than ta,%te theu: tail-prints, left on 
every thing possible for them to get at, or suffer loss from 
their ^oo^A-prints on all things possible for them to devour, 
or destroy. 

o. Death for the Old Sly Rat, — Some rats get so 
cunning that it is almost impossible to overcome their 
shrewdness. 

Then §et a few grains of stiychnine, having a little fresh lean 
meat broiled; cut it into small bits, by using a fork to hold it, 
for if held by the fingers, they will smell them and not eat it ; 
cutting with a sharp penknife; then cut a little hole into the 
bits, and put in a little of the strychnine, and close up the meat 
together agaip. 

Put these on a plate where they frequent, but not near 
their holes, laying a piece of papor over the moat ; when 



MISCELLANEOUS DEPARTMENT. S21 ' 

tha8« are eaten put more, for three or four days, aw3 you 
ai-e soon done with the wisest of them. 

4 Rats — To Drive Away Alive. — If you choose t« drive 
them away alive, take potash pulverized, and put quite plenty 
of it into all their hole3 about the house. lif the potash is pul- 
verized and left in the air, it becomes pasty ; then it cau bo 
daubed on the boards or planks, where they come through into 
rooms. 

Thoy will sooner leave, than be obliged to have a contin- 
ual re-application of this " Doctor Stuff," every time they 
go through their holes. S«e " Potash to Make." 

5. Scotch snufF, or pulverized cajrenne pepper, mixed tojgether, 
or separate ; if freely put into their burrowing-holes, will cer- 
tainly send them off, at a sneezing pace. 

6. Rat Poison — From Sir Humphrey Davy. — A 
tasteless, odorless and infallible rat poison, he says, is made 
as follows : 

*' Mix carbonate of barytes 3 ozs., with grease 1 lb." 
It produces great thirst, consequently water must be set 
by it, for death takes place immediately after drinking, not 
giving them time to go back to their holes. I obtained 
this at such a late day, that 1 have not had opportunity of 
testing it Be sure that no other animal can get at it, 
except ruts . and mice J for it is a most deadly poison. 
Should this be found as effectual as recommended, it will 
prove just the thing for rat-killing, as they can be gathered 
up and carried away, thus avoiding the stench arising from 
their dead carcasses. 

FISH— Art of Catching.— ilix the juice of lovage or smell- 
age, with any kind of bait, or a few drops of the oil of rhodium. 
India cockle also, (Coculus Indicus,) is sometimes mixed with 
flour dough and sprinkled on the surface of still water. This 
iutsxicates the fish and makes them turn up, on top of the 
water. Mullein seed, pulverized, and used in place of the India 
Bcokle is about equal to that article. 

They may be eaten without fear, but this will destroy 
many fish. Oil of rhodium is the best plan. 

'* It is generally supposed," says Mr. R. I. Pell, '• that 
fish are not possessed of the sense of smell. From the fol- 
lowing experiments I am convinced they are : I placed a 
hook, well baited with an angle-worm, enticingly before a 
<?CTch weighing one and a half pounds ; he did not take the 

11 COPT KIOHT SECti«EI». 



822 VR. vUAHls's B£CI1'£S 

least notice of it. It was ./ithdrawn, and a di*op of rkodiob. 
brought in contact with it, when it was dropped very care- 
fully several feet behind him ; he immediately turned and 
Beized the bait. This experiment was several times repeat- 
ed, with like success. It has been denied that fish havo 
the sense of hearing. I find many varieties very sensitive 
to noise, and by numerous experiments am convinced thai 
Ihcir sense of hearing is acute." 

STRAW AND CHIP HATS— To Varnish Black — Bert 
alcohol 4 ozs.; pulverized, black sealing-wax 1 oz.; put thf m into 
a vial, and put llie vial into a warm place, stirring or fcuakin^ 
occasionally, until the wax is dissolved ; apply it when warm 
by means of a soft brush, beiore the fire or in the sun. 

It gives stifiuess to old straw hats or bonnets, n.akes a 
beautiful gloss, and resists wet; if anything else is required, 
just apply it to small baskets also, and see how nicely they 
will look. 

3. Sthaw Boxnets— To Color a Beautfful Slate. — First 
soak the Ix^nnet in rather strong warm suds for fifteen minutes, 
*Jii3 is to remove sizing or stitl'ening; then rinse in warm water 
o get out the soap ; now scald cudbear 1 oz., in sufficient wafei 
o cover the hat or bonnet — work the bonnet in this dye at 180 
.egrees of heat, until you get a light pm-ple ; now have a bucket 
of cold water blued with the extract of indigo, about i oz., and 
work or stir the bonnet in this, until the tint pleases. 

Dry, then rinse out with cold water and dry again, in 
the shade. If you get the purple too deep in shade, the 
final slate will be too dark. See " Extract of Indigo, or 
Chemic." 

STUCCO PLASTERING— For Brick and Gravel Houses. 
— First make up as much mortar as you need for the job, with 

ffood common lime ; using only f or four-fifths, at most, as much 
ime as needed for common work — the other fourth or fifth is to 
be water-lime; and not to be put in only as used. Th^s sand 
must be coarse, and free from loam or dirt. 

To prepare the white and colored washes, run off common 
lime enough with hot water, to make a white-wash to go over 
the whole job. This white-wash is to be colored the tint de- 
siretl for the work. Be sure to make color-wash enough at ono 
time, or you will find it hard to get the shades alike ; saving « 
little of the white-wash without color, to pencil the seams, and 
also for specking, as mentioned below. The col»rs used ara 
lamp-black, Spanish-brown, or Venetian-red, as preferred, aB<9 
these are cut or dissolved in whisky; then pitting int* *• 
white-wash to suit 



MISCELLANEOUS DEPARTMENT. 828 

ifhcn these waslies are all prepared, wet up ns much of 
ijre mortar as can be put on in 20 to 40 minutes, and mix in the 
fourth or fifth of the cement, and put en as fast as possible ; first 
Tfetting the wall very wet with water. Some cement will set in 
SO and some iu 40 to 50 minutes. AVhen you see the time neces- 
sary for the kind you are using, act accordingly, and only mix 
the cement into as much mortar as your help will put on before 
it sets ; beginning at the top of the wall with your scaffolding 
ami working down, which prevents too much specking from the 
colors. Have a man to follow right after with a float, keeping 
the stucco very wet while floating down level and smooth ; and 
the longer it is floated and wet, the better will be the job. Even 
Rfter it 13 floated down well, keep a man wetting it with a brush 
until you get the whole line on, around the house, as the water- 
iaie must be kept quite wet for some considerable time, to set 
properly. Heed this caution, and if water never gets in br .ind 
the plastering from bad cornice or leaky roofs, it will neve peel 
oS". When this line of scaflblding is plastered, take cute .ough 
of the color-wash, running it through a sieve, and go over the 

{)lasteriL,g ; lamp-black alone gives it a bluish slate color ; if a 
ittle of the brown is added with the black, it will be a little 
reddish, and if the red is used without the brown, it will be quite 
retl. I prefe: sufficient of the black only to make a gray stone 
color. A brovn, however, looks exceedingly well. If you 
choose, you can make one-half of the color-wash darker than 
the other — having laid it off" into blocks resembling stone, by 
means of a straight-edge, and piece .of board about half an inch 
thick, paint every other block with the darker wash to represent 
different shades of stone. Some of our best buildings are done 
in this way, and look well. 

Then to give it a granite appearance, take a small paint-brush 
and dip it mto the white-wash, saved for this purpose ; strike it 
across a hammer-handle so as to throw the specks from the 
brush upon the wall, then the same with black and red. Pencil 
ths seams with the white-wash, which gives it the appearance 
of mortar, as in real stone-work. 

No)^ jou are ready to move down the scaffold, and go 
♦vei the same thing as before. After the colors have been 
iisso'ved with spirits, they can be reduced with water, or 
what is better for them and the color-wash also, is skimmed- 
milp- ; and where milk is plenty, it ought to be used ii? 
place of water, for white-wash or color-washes, as it helps to 
resist the weather, and prevents the colors from fading — see 
" P-^int, to Make without Lead or Oil," which gives you 
the philosophy of using milk. Speck quite freely with the 
wh'te, then about half as much with the black, and then 
ratJier fr.Qe again with the red. The proportion of lime, 



824 DR. CUASE'S RECIPKS. 

probably, should not exceed one, to six or seven of sand 
Our University buildings, represented io th« frontispiece^ 
except the Laboratory, and Law-building, which have been 
more recently put up, are finished with it, and also whole 
blocks in the busincsH part of our city 

J*rof. Douglas^' house is probably the prettiest color of 
ny in the city — an imitation of '' Frcc-stone," made with 
amp-black, yellow ochre, and a larger proportion of Spaiiish 
wown, But all will have a preference for some special color ; 
then, with a little ingenuity and patience, nearly any coloieJ 
stone can be imitated. 

GRAVEL HOUSES— To Make— PsoportioiNS oy 
Lime, Sand, and Gravel. — It has become quite common 
to put up gravel houses : and many persons arc at a great 
loss to know what proportion of materials to use. Various 
proportions hare ])cen proposed ; but frwm the fact that the 
philosophy was not explained, no real light was given upou 
the subject. 

All that is required to know, is, that saud and lime are to be 
used in proportion to the size of tiie grav^el, — say for 15 bushels 
of clean gravel, from the size of peas up to that of hen's eggs, 
it will take about 3 bushels of clean sharp sand and 1 of lime to 
fill the crevices without swelling the bulk of the gravel. If liie 
gravel is coarse, up to 5 boshels of sand may be required, bet 
the lime will not need to be increased but very little, if any. 
Then the philosophy of the thing is this — about 1 to 1^^ bushels 
of lime to 15 bushels of gravel, and just Mud enough to fill me 
crevices without increasing tlie bulk as above mentioned. 

If tho gravel is fi*oe of dirt, the sand I'lso clean, and tlie 
weather dry, the walls can bo raised one font each day, if 
you have help to do that amount of labor. 

Some prefer to make the gravel and sand ivto mortar and 
press it into bricks ; then lay into walls, but the \rall must 
be stronger if laid up solid, in board frames, laade to raise 
up as required. 

Many persons argue for the eight-square or octofoo bouse ; 
but I like the square form much the best, carryim^ up the 
hall and main partiton walls of the same material. Tha 
eight square house looks like an old fort, or water tant. and 
13 very expensive to finish ; costing much more than toe 
Bame room with square an^.^s; for mechanics cannot put 
up cornice outside, or in, in ws than double the time ie» 
quired for making the common square mitre. 



MISCELLANEOUS DEPARTMENT. 825 

Prof. Winchell, of the Univei"sity, and State Geologist, 
jn this city, has put up one of the octagons which looks 
Weil, however, fur the style of Jinuh is what attracts atten- 
tion, instead of the style of form. 

WHITEWASHES AND CHEAP PAINTS.— Bril- 
liant Stucco Whitewash — Will Last on Brick o& 
Stone, Twenty to Thirty Years. — Many have hfard 
ot the brilliant stucco whitewash on the cast end of the 
President's house at Washington. The following is a recipo 
for it, as gleaned from the National lutellicjencer, with some 
additional improvements learned by experiments : 

Nice unslaked lime ^ bushel ; slake it with boiling water ; 
cover it during the process, to keep in the steam. Strain the 
liquid through a fine sieve or siraiuer, and add to it, salt 1 peck ; 
previously well dissolved in water ; rice 3 lbs. — boiled to a thin 
paste, and stirred in boiling hot ; Spanish whiting ^ lb. ; clean 
nice glue 1 lb., which has been previously dissolved by soaking 
it well, and then hanging it over a slow fire, in a small kettle, 
immersed in a larger one filled with water. Now add hot water 
5 guls.,to the mixture, stir it well, and let it stand a few days 
covered fr»m the dirt. 

it should be put on not. For this purpose it can be 
kept in a kettle on a portable lurnace. Brushes more or 
less small may be used, according to the neatness of job re- 
quired. It answers as well as oil paint for brick or stone, and 
is much cheaper. 

There is one house in our city which had this applied 
twelve years ago, and is yet nice and bright. It has re- 
tained its brilliancy over thirty years. 

Coloring matter, dissolved in whisky, may be put in and 
made of any shade you like ; Spanish brown stirred in will 
make red-pink, more or less deep, according to quantity. • 
A delicate tinge of this is very pretty for inside walls. 
Finely pulverized common clay, well mixed with Spanish 
brown, makes reddish stone color. Yellow-ochere stirred 
m makes yellow wa.sh, but chrome goes further, and makes 
a color generally esteemed prettier. In all thes i cases the 
darkness of the shade, of course, is determmed by the 
quantity of the coloring used. It is difficult to make rules, 
because taites are different— it would be best to try experi- 
ments on a shingle and let it dry. Green mu-it not be mix- 
ed with lime. The lime destroys the color, and the color 



Sr>ti - DR. chase's RKCIPES. 

has un effect on the whitewash, which makes it crack ubd 
peel. When inside walls have been badly smoked, and you 
wish to make them a clean, clear white, it is well to squeeze 
indigo plentifully through a bag into the water you tise, be 
fore it is stirred into the whole mixture, or blue vitriol pul 
verized and dissolved in boiling water and put into white- 
wash, gives a beautiful blue tint. If a larger ."{uantity than 
five gallons be wanted, the same proportions should be o\y 
served. 

2. Whitewash — VeuY Nice for Iloovrs. — Take whiting 4 
lbs. ; white or common glue 2 ozs. ; stand *he glue in cold water 
over night ; mix the whiting with cold water, and heat the glue 
until dissolved ; and pour it into the other, hot. Make of a 
proper consistence to apply with a common whitewash bruslv. 

Use these proportions for a greater or less amount. In 
England scarcely any other kind of whit-nvash is used 

A lady, of Black lliver Falls, Wis., who had one of my 
books, wrote to me, expressing her thankfulness for the 
beauty of this whitewash. 

3. Paint — To Make without Lead oii On..— Whiting 5 lbs; 
Bkimmed milk 2 qts. ; fresh slaked lime 2 0Z!"<. Put the lime 
into a stone-ware vessel, pour upon it a suhic'ent quantity of 
the milk to make a mixture resembling cream; tlie balance of 
the milk is then to be addeil ; and lastly the wLitiug is to be 
crumbled upon the surface of tlie fluid, in wlii'^h it gradually 
sinks. At this period it must be well stirred in, or ground aa 
you would other paint, and it is tit fur use. 

There may be added any coloring matter that suit* the 
fancy, (see the first whitewash for mixing colors,) to ba ap- 
plied in the same manner as other paints, and in » few 
hours it will become perfectly dry. Another coat may then 
be added and so on until the work is done. This paint ia 
of great tenacity, bears rubbing with a coarse cloth, baa 
little smell, even when wet, and when dry is inodorous. 
The above quantity is sufficient for fifty-seven yards. — Aj*- 
aapolis Rejfuhhcan. 

" We endorse the recip'^. The casein or curd of the 
milk, by the action of the caustic-lime, becomes insoluble, 
and has been used, fur time immemorial, as a lute for chem- 
ical experiments. It is a good, and, in comparison with 
white load, a durable paint." — Moorts Rural New Yorker 

JMost of tlic cheap paints will require about three coata. 



MISCELLANEOUS DEPARTMENT. 82T 

White lead always requires two, biit some people think be- 
cause they get a cheap paint that one coat ought to make a 
good job. Two will generally do with any except white. 

4, White Paint— A New Way of Mafnuacturingl 
— The following was communicated by a man who was for- 
merly a carpenter in the U. S. Navy. 

'' During a cruise in the South Pacific, we went into the 
harbor of Coquimbo ; and as the ship had been out a long 
time, she was covered with rust from stem to stern. It waa 
the anxious wish of the commander that she should be ro- 
Btored to her original colors ; but on examining the store- 
room, it was ascertained that there was not a pound of white 
lead ia the ship. In this emergency I bethought me of an 
expedient which concocted an admirable substitute, com- 
posed of the following ingredients : 

" Air-slaked lime, pulverized until it was of the fineness of 
flour, which was then passed through a seive. Rice boiled in a 
large kettle until the substance was drawn eutirel^r out of the 
grain ; the water, then of a plastic nature, was strained to sepa- 
rate the grain, &c., from the clear liquid. A tub, about the size 
of a half barr*)l, of the prepared lime and rice-water, was mixed 
with 1 gallon of linseed-oil ; and the material had so much the 
appearance oi paint that a novice could not have told the dif- 
ference. 

" The ship was painted outside and inboard with the 
above mixture (which cost next to nothing,) and never pre- 
Bcnted a finer white streak on her bends, or cleaner bulwarks 
and berth-deck than on that occasion, and no other kind of 
white paint was used during the remainder of the cruise." 

If this is good for ships out and inboard, it is worth try- 
ing for fences and out-work requiring a cheap white paint, 

5. Black and Green Paint — Durable and Citeap, for 
OuT-DooR Work. — Any quantity of charcoal, powdered ; a suffl- 
cient quantity of litharage as a diyer, to be well levigated 
(rubbed smooth) with linseed-oil ; and when uijed, to be thinned 
with well boiled linseed-oil. The above forms a good black 
paint. 

By adding yellow ochre, an excellent green is produced, 
which is preferable to the bright green, used by painters, for all 
garden work, as it does not fade with the sun. 

This composition was first used by Dr. Parry, of Bath, 
on some spouts; which, on being examined, fourteen years 
afterwards, were found to bo aa perfect as when first put 



§28 DR. CHAKK'S UECJI'ES. 

6. Milk Paint, pok Barns — Any Colok.— ' Mix water lime 
with skim-milk, lo a pronar consistence to apply with a brush, 
and it is ready to use. It will adhere well to \vood, whether 
smooth or rough, to brick, mortar or stone, where oil has not 
been used, (in which case it cleaves to s(jme extent,) and forma 
a very hard substance, as durable as the best oil paint. It is too 
cheap to estimate, and any one can put it on who can use a 
brush." — Country Oentleman. 

Any color may be giVeu to it, by using colors of the 
tinge desired, dissolving in whisky first, then adding in to 
Buit the fancy, as in the first recipe. 

If a red is preferred, mix Venetian-red with milk, not 
using any lime. It looks well for fifteen years. 

LIQUID, AND WATER-PROOF GLUES.-Liquid Glue. 

^To have a good glue always ready for use, just put a bottle 
two-thirds full of best common glue, and fill up the bottle with 
common whisky ; cork it up, and set by for 3 or 4 days, and it 
will dissolve without the application of heat. 

It will keep for years, and is always ready to use without 
heat, except in very cold weather, when it may need to b<> 
set a little while in a warm place, before using. 

2. Imitation of Spalding's Gluk. — First, soak in cold vatei 
all the glue you wish to make at one time, using only glass, 
earthen, or porcelain dishes; then by gentle heat dissr'lve the 
glue in the same water, and pour in a little nitric acid, sufficient 
to give the glue a sour taste, like vinegar, or from i oz, to 1 oz. 
to each pound of glue. 

The acid keeps it in a liquid state, and prevent« it from 
spoiling ; as nice as Spalding's or any other, foi a very 
trifling expense. If iron dishes are used, the acid corrodea 
them and turns the glue black. Or : 

3. Acetic acid 1 oz.; pure soft water 6 oz.; ^lue 3 oz.; ^m 
tragacanth 1 oz. AIix,and if not as thick as desired, add a little 
more glue. 

This keeps in a liquid state, docs not decompose ; and is 
valuable for Druggists in labeling; also for house use ; and 
if furniture men were not prejudiced, they would find it 
valuable in the shop. 

4. Watkr-Proof Glue — Is made by first soaking «.ije glue in 
cold water, for an liour or two, or until it becomes a \itlle soil, 
yet retaining its original form ; then taking it from the watei 
and dissolving it by geutie heal, stirring in a little boiled lin- 
BCcd-oU. 



MISCELLANEOUS DKPARTMENT. 829 

If mahogany veneers were put on with this glue, thej 
would not fall oft', as they now do, by the action of the at- 
mosphere. 

FIRE KINDLERS.— To make Tcry nice fire kindlers, take 
rosin, any quauiity, and meit it, putting in I'urcacb pound being 
used, from 2 to 3 ozs. of tallow, and when all is hot, stir in pine 
saw -diist to make very thick ; and, while yet hot, spread it on* 
al»oul 1 inch thick, upon boards vhich have fine saw-du»t 
Bpriiikled upon them, to prevent it from sticking. When cold, 
break up into lumps about 1 inch square. But if for sale, take a 
thin board and press upon it, while yet warm, to lay it off into 
1 inch squares ; this makes it break regularly, if you press the 
crease sulhciently deep, greasing tiie marking-board to prevent 
it from sticking. 

One of these blocks will easily ignite with a match, and 
burn with a strong blaze long enough to kindle any wood 
fit to burn. The above sells readily in all our large towns 
and cities, at a great profit. 

2. Most of the published recipCiS call for rosin 8 lbs.; tar 
1 qt.; and 1 gill of turpentine ; but they make a black, 
sticky mess of stuff, which always keep the hands daubed. 
On the other hand, this makes a roein-colored kindler, 
which breaks nicely also when cold-; and they are decidedly 
a nice thing ; and much more certain to start a fire than 
shavings. If the tar plan is u.sed, 1 pt. is enough for 5 lbs 
of rosin. 

STARCH POLISH. — White-wax 1 oz.; spermaceti 2 ozs.; 
melt them together with a gentle heat. 

AVheu you have prepared a sufficient amout of starch, in 
the usual way, for a dozen pieces — put into it a piece of the 
polish the size of a large pea ; more or less, according to 
large or small washings. Or, thick gum solution (made by 
pouring boiling water upon gum arabic.) one table-spoon to 
a pint of starch, gives clothes a beautiful gloss. 

PERCUSSION MATCHES— OF THE best quality.— Chlo- 
rate of potash f lb.; ghie 3 lbs.; white lead, dry, 5 lbs.; red lead 
i lb ; phosphorus 2f lbs. Directions. — First put the chlorate 
into a dish made for the purpose, deep, and of a suitable size to 
set into a kettle of water, which can be kept on the fire for 2 or 3 
dttj a, haying 2 qts. of water on the chlorate ; then put the glue 
on top of the chlorate water, and let soak until all is perfectly 
dissolved ; then add the leads and heat up quite hot, and tho- 
lougbly mix; let cool and add the phosphoiiis, let it dissolve and 



830 Dll. chase's REClPtti. 

be careful never to heat hot after the phosphorus is added ; sev 
oc(»8ionallj^ while dipping, and if little particles of phosphortui 
fires, push it down into the mixture, or put on warm water; il 
you put on cold water, it will fly all over j-ou. Keep it rathei 
tliin after the phosphorus is put in, and there will be no danger ; 
altliough the chlorate of potaah is considered a dangerous arti- 
cle to work with; so is powder, yet wlien you kr.ow how to wirk 
with them, you can do as s;ifely with one as the other. Wheu 
dry give them a coat of varnish. 

I have been acquainted with a man for about fourteeo 
years who makes them, and several others for a less time, 
without trouble or accident. A better match was never 
made to stand dampness, or bear transportation without set- 
ting on fire. I have used and sold them much of the time, 
and speak from knowledge. One explosion has since taken 
place. 

The plan pursued here in preparing the splints is as fol- 
lows : Sawed pine timber from four to eight inches each 
way, is cut off the right length for the match, then one end 
of it is shaved smooth, with a drawing-knife; the biock is 
held upon the horse by a brace from the top of the horse 
head against the back side of the block, so as to be out of 
tlie way of the knife instead of putting the block under the 
jaws of the horse head, as the dents made in the end of 
match timber would not answer; the front edge comes 
against a strip put on for that purpose ; then glue the other 
end and put ou brown paper, which holds them togethur 
when split; machines are used to split with which feeds up 
the block enough each time the knife is raised, to make tha 
size of the match when split the other way, or about ten to 
the inch. These machines cost about fifty doUais, and the 
work goes ahead like a young saw-mill, by simply turning 
a crank as shown in the figure. 

A A, shows two standards bolted upon a base plank, four 
feet in length ; these standards support a shaft, with crank 
and balance wheel D, which is two feet in diameter , the 
hhaft has upon it an oval wheel, G, which sinks the knife, 
F, twice in each revolution, the knife passing down through 
a space in a thin iron strip, H, standing out from the two 
blocks, C C, under which the match block passes by the 
drawing of the chain seen to pass over a small drum, P, 
upon the shaft of the rag wheel, B, the notches being only 
one-fourth inch apart, and fed up by the hand, M, attached to 



MISCELLANEOUS DEPARTMENT. 



331 



the iron frame, L, being kept back to tlie cam wheel, E, which 
has two swells upon it, by a light spring which is not shown 




MATCH SPHTTINQ MACHINE. 

The hand, M, is kept down into the cogs or notches by the 
little spiral wire spring, K ; the match block, to be split, set3 
in the frame forward of the block', I, which has a pin in it 
to draw back the frame. A\ hen the block of matches is 
split, this frame goes forward to touch a catch, the same as 
a saw-mill, which lets anotho^ spring not .seen, raise the 
hand, M, when the feeding operation ceases. The frame is 
then drawn back and the same repeated. As the match is 
*plit they open and require a rounding mortise made through 
the base plank between the blocks, C C, which allows them 
to remain in a half circular form — the knife is raised by a 
line att^iched to a spring pole, T, the knife is screwed upon 
a piece of cast iron which works in the guide, N, having tho 
back end firmly fa.stened by a bolt through the standard, 
This knife stands at right angles with the shaft. When the 
matches are split and sufficiently dry to work upon, they are 
dipped in melted brimstone, kept hot, and the match also 
kept hot on a sheet iron stove, and all the brimstone is thrown 
oH which can possibly be by jerking the block with the 
hand, it any brimstone remains upon the end it must be 
scraped off before dipping into the match composition. 
Without tho chlora'e, the com position makes a first class 



i>32 Da cuakk's asoiPEH. 

' Friction Match." It ought to be known, ho^ovor, that 
the match business is au unhealthy occupation, from the 
poisonous effects of the phosphorus. 

STEA.M BOILERS— To Prevtsnt Lime Deposits.— Put intc? 
70ur cistern or tank, from ■which the boiler is fud, a suliicienl 
amount of oak tan-bark, in the piece, to color the water ralhei 
dark ; run 4 weeks anil renew. 

This plan has been much used, in the lime-stone sections 
oi' Washington, 0., giving general satisfaction. 

2. Ohio Rivkr Plan. — Sprouts from barley, in malting, are 
recommended by Capt. Lumm, part owner of a steamboat, and 
ongineer on the Ohio and Mississippi rivers, to prevent the de- 
posit of lime upon boiUi-s, and ho says tightens up old leaky 
boilers, also. It may be used in quantities of from '6 pts. to 2 or 
'3 qts., according to the size of boilers. 

When it is put in you must know the quantity of water 
in the boiler, for unless you heat up quite slow it causes a 
foaming of the water, and might deceive the engineer about 
the amount of water in the boiler, but if heat up slow there 
is no danger of this deception. 

?). To Prevent Explosion, with the Reason why 
•niLY Explode. — At a recent meeting of the Assouatioo 
for the Advancement of Science, Mr. Hyatt, of New I'ork, 
presented what we believe to be the true cause. Re pre- 
sented the following table, showing the rapidity with which 
pres.'iure is douhleil by only a slight increa.se of heat. 

At 212 degrees of heat water begins to boil; at 868 degrees 
iron becomes of a red heat : 

213 degrees of heat, 15 pounds to square inch. 



251 




" 


30 


294 






60 


342 






120 


398 






2i0 


464 






480 


803 






7680 



It was stated by Mr. Hyatt, that, from experiments he had 
made, tliis great, increase of i^resaure could be obtained \& »xto 
fcren minutes, with an engine at rest. This rapid doubling of 
pressure, with but a small increase of heat, is clue to the conver- 
sion of what is termed latent heat, in steam, into sensible heat 
if we immerse a thermometer into boiling water, it stands at 
212 ; if we place it in steam immediately above the water, it 
indicates the same temperature. The question then arises, wlial 
becomca of all the heat which is communicated to the water, 



MISCELLA>fEOUS DKPART.MENT. Z'iH 

tince it is neither indicated by the water nor oy the steam formed 
from it? The answer is, it ei>**!r3 the water and couvei-ta it into 
&t6&m without raising its temperature. One tlwu^and degrees 
of heat are absorbed in the conversion of water into steam, and 
this is called its latent heat. And it is the sudden conversion ot 
latent heat into semihle heat that produces the explosion. If an 
engine is stopped, even if there is but a moderate fire, if the es- 
cape valve is closed, there is a rapid absorption or accumulation 
of latent heat. The pressure rises with great rapidity, and whou 
the cn^in'^^L thinks everything is safe, the explosion comes. 

That this is the true cause of nearly all the explosions 
that occur, will be plain to every one who will look at the 
relations between latent and sensible heat. ]-*rof. Henry 
and Prof. Silliman, Jr., endorse the view. What, then, ia 
tlie security against explosions ? Wo know of no securities 
but these — a sufficiency of water in the boilers^ and the 
escape valves open at light pressure, when the engine is at 
rest. — Sprinjjield Republican. 

There is no question about the foregoing explanations be- 
ing founded in true philosophy ; and if engineers will be 
governed by them, instead of by a desire to hold on to steam 
for the purpose of getting ah<a<l or of keeping ahead, as 
the case may be, of some other . boat ; or on land, to save 
the expense of fuel, not one explosion would take place 
wncre now there is, at least, a hundred. 

Awful will be the reckoning with these murderers ; for 
13 Heaven's sight they are one and the same 

A series of experiments have recently been concluded oq 
the U. S. Steamer Michigan, and a full but voluminous re- 
port laid before the Navy Department, upon the subject of 
steam expansion. It would pay all interested in steam 
works to obtain and read it. 

PLUMS AND OTHER FRUIT— To Pkevent Ln'skcts from 
Stinoing. — Take new, dry lime, sulphur, and gunpowder, equal 
parts, pulverized very fine, and throw it amongst the flowers 
when in luU bloom ; use it freely so that all may catch a little. 

This has been tried with success. Working upon the 
^►rinciple of pepper, to keep flies from meat. The injury 
io fiiiit being done while in blossom. 

BED-ROOM CARPETS— For Twelve and a h-vlf Cexts 
FKR Yard. — Sew together the cheapest cotton cloth, the size of 
the room, and tjwik the edges to the tioor. Now paper the cloth 
&8 you would the sides o!' a room, with cheap room psiper; piit- 



SS4 i)&. chase's recipes. 



ting a border around the edfi;e 'f desired. The past* will be I 4 
better if a little gum arabic is ni.Ked with it. \Vhen tboroughly 
dry, give it two coats of furniture or carriage varnish, and when 
dry it is done. 

It can be washed ; and looks well in proportion to the 
quality and figure of the paper used. It could not be ex* 
pcctcd to stand the wear of a kitchen, for any length of 
time, but for bed-rooms it is well adapted. 

COFFEF — lIoRK Healtht and Better Flavored, fob 
Onh-Fouutu the Expense of Common. — Coffee, by weiglit 01 
measure, one-fourth, rye three-fourths. 

Look them over separately, to iiemove bad grains ; then 
wash to remove dust, draining off the water for a moment 
as you take it with the hands, from the washing water, 
putting directly into the browning skillet, carefully stirring, 
all the time, to brown it evenly. Brown each one sepa- 
rately ; then mix evenly, and grind only as used ; settling 
with a beaten egg, seasoning with a little cream and sugar 
as usual. 

And I do sincerely say the flavor is better, and it is ono 
hundred per cent, more healthy than all coffee. 

You may try barley, peas, parsnips, dandelion roots, &c., 
but none of their flavors are equal to rye. Yet all of thcin 
are more or less used for coffee. 

PICKLING FRL^TS, AND CUCUMBERS— Pickling Ar 
pi.ES. — Best vinegar 1 gal.; sugar 4 lbs.; apples all it will cover 
handsomely ; cinnamon and cloves, ground, of each 1 table- 
•poon. 

Pare and core the apples, tying up the cinnamon and 
cloves in a cloth and putting with the apples, into the vine- 
gar and sugar and cooking until done, only. Keep in jars. 
They are nicer than preserves, and more healthy, and keep 
a long time ; not being too sour, nor too sweet, but an agree- 
able mixture of the two. It will be seen below that th«» 
different fruits require different quantities of sugar and 
vinegar, the reason for it, is, the difference in the fruit. 

2. Pickling Peaches. — Best vinegar 1 qt; sugar 4 lbs.; 
peaches, peeled and stoned 8 lbs. ; spices as desired, or as for 
apples. 

Treated every other way as apples. If they should begin 
tO ferment, at any time, simply boil down the juice ; the» 
boil the peaches in it for a few minutes only. 



MI8CELLANE00S DEPARTMENT. 381 

8. Peaches — To Peel. — la peeling small peaches with 
a knife, too much of the peach is wasted ; but by having a 
wire-cage, similar to those made for popping corn ; fill the 
cage with peaches and dip it into boiling water, for a mo- 
ment, then into cold water for a moment and empty out • 
P'oing on in the same way for all you wish to peel. This 
toughens the skin and enables you to strip it oflf, saving 
touch in labor, as also the waste of peach. Why not, as 
well as tomatoes? 

4. Pickling Plums. — Best vinegar 1 pt. ; sugar 4 lbs. ; plomi 
8 lbs. ; spices to taste. 

Boil them in the mixture until soft ; then take out the 
plums, and boil the syrup until quite thick and pour it over 
them again. 

5. PiOKLtNG CuccMBERS. — ^Plck cach moming ; stand in weak 
Drine 3 or 4 days, putting in mustard pods and horseradish 
leaves to keep them green. Then take out and drain, covering 
with vinegar for a week ; at which time take out and drain 
again, puttihg into new vinegar, addins^ mustard seed, ginger 
root, cloves, pepper and red pepper pods, of each about 1 or 3 
oz. ; or to suit different tastes, for each barrel. 

The pickles will be nice and bfittle, and pass muster a 
any man's table, or market. And if it was generally known 
that the greenness of pickles was caused by the action of 
the vinegar on the copper kettle, producing a poison, (ver- 
digris,) in which they are directed to be scalded, I think 
Qo one would wish to have a nice looking pickle at the ex- 
pense of HEALTH ; if they do, they can continue the bad prac- 
tice of thus e'-alding ; if not, just put your vinegar on cold, 
and add your red peppers, or cayennes, cloves, and other 
spices, as desired ; but the vinegar must be changed once, 
as the large amount of water in the cucumber reduces the 
vinegar so much that this change is absolutely necessary ; 
and if they should seem to lose their sharp taste again, jast 
»dd a little molasses, or spirit, and all will be right. 

SA^NDSTONE— To Pkevekt ScALDja by Feost.— Raw lin- 
■eed-oil, 2 or 3 coats. 

Apply in place of paint, not allowing the first coat to get 
entirely dry until the next is applied ; if it does, a skin is 
formed which prevents the next from penetrating the 
«tone. Poorly burned brick will be equally well preserved 
by the assae lU'ooeiM. 



iJJ6 tR. chase's recipes. 

SEALING WAX— Red, Black, aitd Bltje.— Gum Shellac 8 
oz.; Venice turpentine 4 ozs.; vermillion 2^ ozs.; alcohol 2 ozs.; 
camphor gum i oz. Dissolve the camphor in the alcohol, then 
the Bhellac, addinr the taipentine, and finally the vermillion, be- 
"ng very careful tuat no blaze shall come in contact with its 
tumcB ; for if it does, it r.-ill fire verj' quickly. 

BLtE.— Substitute fine Prufsian-blue for the vermillion, aam* 
q\mntity. 

Black.— Lamp-black only sufficient to color. Either cokT 
B.OBt be well nibbed into the mixture. 

ADVICE— To YouNo men and others, out of e.m- 
I'LOYMENT. — Advice — How few there are that will heai 
advice at all ; not because it is advice, but from the fact 
that those who attempt lo give it are not qualified for the 
work they assume ; or that they endeavor to thrust it upon 
their notice at an inappropriate time ; or upon persons over 
whom no control is acceded, if claimed. But a book or 
paper never give offense from any of these causes ; there- 
fore, they are always welcomed with a hope that real benefit 
may be derived from their 6uggcf>tions. Whether that end 
will be attained in this case, I leave to the judgment of 
those for whom it is intended ; hoping they may find them- 
selves sufficienly interested to give it a careful perusal, and 
candid consideration. And although my remarks must, in 
tliis work, be necessarily short, yet every sentence shall he 
a. text for your own thoughts to contemplate and enlarge 
upon ; and perhaps, in some future edition of the work, I 
may take room and time to give the subject that attention 
which is really its due ; and which would be a pleasure to 
devote to its consideration. 

First, then, let mc ask why are so many young men and other 
persons out of employment ? The answer is very positive 
as well as very plain. It is this — indolence, coupled with a 
dcteimination that they will do some (jreat thing, only 
And because that great thing does not turn up without effort, 
they are doing nothing. The point of difficulty is simply 
tins ; they look for the end, before the beginning. Bu» 
just consi^.er how few there are that really accomplish any 
great thing, even with a whole life of industry and economi- 
cal perseverance. And yet most of vwc youth calculate that 
their beginning shall be amongst the greats. But as no one 
comes to offer them their expectations, indolPDce says wait; 



MISCELLANEOUS DEPARTMENT. &37 

and 80 thej are still waiting. Now mind you, as long as 
your expectations are placed upon a chance offer of some- 
thing very remunerative, or upon the assistance of others ; 
even in a small way, so long will you continue to wait in 
rain. At this point, then, the question would arise, what 
can be done ? and the answer is equally plain with the other. 
Take hold of the first job you can find, for it will not find 
vou. No matter how insignificant it may be, it will be bet- 
■cr than longer idleness ; and when you are seen doing 
#omething for yourselves, by those whose opinions are worth 
any consideration, they will soon offer you more and better 
jobs ; until,. finally, you will find something which agrees 
with your taste or inclination, for a life business. But re- 
• member that the idle never have good situations offered 
them. It is the industrious and persevering eriy, who are 
needed to assist in life's great struggle. 

There are a few lines of poetry called " The Excellent 
Man," which advocates the principles I am endeavoring to 
advance, so admirably that I cannot deny myself the plea- 
sure of quoting them. The old proverb, " God helps those 
who help themselves," is as true as it is old, and after all 
that is said and done, in this country, if in no other, a man 
must depend on his own exertions, not on patronage, if b« 
would have or deserve success : 

" They gave me advice and counsel In store. 
Praised me and honored me more and more 
Said that I only should ' wait awhile,' 
Oflered their patronage, too, with a smile 

But with all their honor and approbation, 
I should long apo have died of starration, 
Bad there not come an excellent man. 
Who, bravely to help me along began 

Good-fellow! he got me the food late, 

Hi< kindness and care I ishall never forget : 

Tet I cannot embrace him — though other io]k« oaa, 

For I, myself, am this excellent man I" . 

(Jp, then, and at it, for there is 

Knitting and sewing, and reaping and mowing, 

And all kinds of work for the people to do. 
To keep themselves busy, both Abram and Lizxie ; 

Begin, then, ye idle, there is plenty for yon. 

VThen you have found a situation or a job of werk, proTf 



888 DR. CHACE'S BECIPEU. 

yourself honest, industrious, perserering, and faithful in 
every trust, and no fears need be apprehended of your final 
success. Save a part of your wages as a sinking fund, or 
rather as a floating fund, which shall keep your head above 
water in a storm ; or to enable you, at no distant day, tft 
commence a business of your own. 

A poor orphan boy, of fourteen, once resolved to save 
half of his wages, which were only four dollars per month, 
for this purpose ; and actually refused, even in sickness, 
although really suflFering for comforts, to touch this business 
fund. He was afterwards the richest man in St. Louis. 

His advice to young men was always this : " Go to work ; 
save half your wages ; no matter how small they may be, 
until you have what will enable you to begin what you wish 
to follow; then begin it, stick to it; be economical, pru- 
dent, and careful, and you cannot fail to prosper." 

My advice is the same, with this qualification, however; 
that in choosing your occupation, you should be governed 
by the eternal principles of right ! never choosing that 
which, when done, injures a fellow creature more than it can 
possibly benefit yourself — I mean the liquor traffic. But 
with the feeling of St. Paul, when he saw the necessity of 
doing something different from what he had been doing, he 
cried out, *' Lord, what wiJt thou have me to do ?" Ask 
your own tastes, being governed by conscience, under the 
foregoing principles ; knowing that if a person has to learn 
a trade or business against his own inclination, it requires 
double dilligence to make only, half speed, and hardly ever 
meeting with success. 

The question to be settled, then, is this : Shall I work 
the soil : Shall I be a mechanic, teacher, divine, physician, 
lawyer, merchant, druggist, or grocer, or shall it be some- 
thing else ? Whenever you make up your mind what it 
shall be, make it up, also, to be the best one in that line of 
business. Set your mark high, both in point of moral 
purity and literary qualificaiiois. 

If you choose any of the occupations of trade, you mist 
BJive all that it is possible for economy and prudence to do, 
f(»r your beginning. 

But if you choose one of the learned professions, you 
mwt work with the same care and prudence until you havt 



MISCELLANEOUS DEPARTMENT. 88* 

accumulated sufficient to make a fair commencement in your 
studies ; then prosecute them . in all faithfulness as far as 
the accumulated means will advance you ; realizing that 
this increase of knowledge will give you increased power ia 
obtaining the further means of prosecuting your studies, 
accessary to qualify you to do one thing only in life. 

Nearly all of our best men are self-made, and men of one 
idea, i, e., they have set themselves to be mechanics, physi- 
cians, lawyers, sculptors, &c., and have bent their whole 
energies and lives to tit themselves for the great work before 
them. Begin, then ; offer no excuse. Be sure you are on 
the right track, then go ahead : 

" Live for something ;" slothful be no longer, look around for some employ ; 

labor always make* you strongev. and ulso gives you sweetest joy. 

Idle hands are always weary ; faithful hearts are always gay ; 

life for us, should uot.be dreary ; nor can it, to the active, everyday. 

Always remembering that industry, in study or labor, will 
Keep ahead of his work, giving time for pleasure and en- 
joyment; but indolence is ever behind; being driven with 
her work, and no prospect of its ever being accomplished. 

When you have made your decision, aside from wha-t time 
you must necessarily devote to lal?or, let all possible time be 
given to the study of the best works upon the subject of 
your occupation or profession, knowing that one hour's 
reading in the morning, when the mind is calm and free 
from fatigue, thinking and talking with your companions 
through the day upon the subjects of which you have been 
reading, will be better than twice that time in evening read- 
ing, yet if both can be enjoyed, so much the better ; but one 
of them must certainly be occupied in this way. 

If you choose something in the line of mercantile or trade 
life, do not put off, too long, commencing for yourself. Bet- 
ter begin in a small way and learn, as your capital increases, 
how to manage a larger business. 

I knew a gentleman to commence a business with five 
dollars, and in two weeks his capital was seventeen dollars, 
pesides feeding his family. 

I knew one also to begin with sixty dollars, and in fifteen 
months he cleared over four hundred and fifty dollars, be- 
sides supporting his family ; then he sold out and lost all, 
before he again got into successful business. 

No person should ever sell out, or quit an honorable pay- 
ing bufiiness. 



S-iO DR. chase's recipes. 

Tbosc who choose a professional life, wiL hardlj find a 
place in the Westt, equal to the University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor, to obtain their literary qualifications. An en- 
trance fee of Ten Dollars, with Five Dollars yearly, pays 
for a full Literary, Law, Medical, or Civil Engineering 
course ; the first requiring four, the two next, two, and the 
last, three years. [See Frontispiece.] 

Or, in the words of the Catalogue : " The University, 
having been endowed by the General Government, affordi 
education, without money and without price. There is no 
young man, so poor, that industry, diligence, and persever- 
ance, will not enable him to get an education here. 

*' The present condition of the University eenfirms this 
view of its character. While the sons of the rich, and cf 
men of more or less property, and, in large proportion, the 
sons of substantial farmers, mechanics, and merchants, are 
educated here, thei'e is also a ver}' considerable number of 
young men dependent eiitireli/ upon their own exertions — 
young men who, accustomed to work on the farm, or in tho 
mechanic's shop, have become smitten with the love of 
knowledge, and are manfully working their way through, to 
a liberal education, by appropriating a portion of their time 
to the field or the workshop." 

Persons wishing to qualify themselves for teaching In 
this State, will find the Normal School^ Ypsilanti, undoubt- 
edly preferable. 

And that none may excuse themselves from an effort be. 
cause somewhat advanced in life, let me say that Doctor 
Eberle, who wrote several valuable medical works, did not 
begin his medical studies until forty-five years of age ; and, 
although I could mention many more, I will only add that I, 
myself always desired to become a physician, yet circum- 
stances did not favor nor justify my commencement until 
I was thirty-eight. See the remarks following " Eye 
Water." 

There is no occupation, however, so free and independent 
as that of the farmer ; and there is none, except parents, 
capable of using so great an influence, for good or for evil, 
as that of teacher. 

All might and ought, to a greater or less extent, b* farm- 
ers; but all cannot be teachers. Then let those whose 



HISC-ELLAMEOUS DEPAKTMEMT. 841 

tuace inelmea them to teach, not shrink the responsibility^ 
but fully qualify for the work; learning also the ways of 
Truth and llighteousness for themselves ; teaching it 
through the week-school, by action as well as by word, and 
in the Sabbath-school, fail not to take their stand for the 
right, like our President dect ; then when it comes your 
turn to assist in the government of the State, or Nation, the 
people will come to your support, as you do to your work — 
as they have just done to his, (1860); feeling, as now, that 
the governraeat must be safe in the hands of those who love 
God — deal honestly with their fellows ; and who, in remem- 
bering the Sabbath to keep it holy themselves, are not 
ashamed — nor forget, to teach the children to love the same 
God, and reverence His Word. Only think — a Sabbath- 
School Teacher — a Rail- Splitter — a Boat-man, President 
of the United States ! 

Who will hereafter be afraid of common labor ; or, let 
indolence longer prevent their activity ? when it is only 
those who begin with small things, and persevere through 
life, that reach the final goal of greatness; and, as in this 
case, are crowned with the greatest honor which man can 
receive — the confidence of his Nation. 

Then let Industry take the place of Indolence, beginning 
to be great, by grappling with the small things of life — be 
faithful to yourself, and, you may reasonably expect, the end 
shall, indeed, be great. 

And although it could not be expected, in a work of this 
kind, chat much could, or would be said, directly, regarding 
a future life, yet I should be recreant to duty if I did not 
say a vford more upon that subject. It shall be only a 
word . Be as faithful to God, as I have recommended you 
^0 be to yourselves, and all things pertaining to a future, 
▼ill bo equally prosperous, and glorious in its results. 

GRAMMAR IN RHYME— For iiie Little Folks. 
— It is seldom that one sees so much valuable matter as th« 
following lines contain, comprised in so brief a space 
fivery young grammarian, and macy older heads, will find 
\t highly advantageous to commit tho " poem " to memory ; 



8^ Da. CHASE'S RECIPES 

for with these lines at the tongue's end, none n«9d ovw 
mistake a part of speech : 

1. "Three little words you often see, 
Are articles— a, an, and tlu. 

2. A Noun's the name of any Jhing, 
As school, or garden, hoop, or swing. 

%. Adjectives tell the kind of Noun, 
As great, small, pretty, white, or brown. 

4. Instead of Nouns the Pronouns stand— 
Her head, ?iis face, your arm, my hand. 

6. Verbs tell of something to be done — 
To read, count, sing, laugh, jump, or 7*un. 

6. How things are done, the adverbs tell. 
As slowly, quickly, iJX, or weU. 

7. Conjunctions join the words together — 
As men and women, wind or weather. 

8. The Preposition stands before 
A Noun, as in, or throitgJi a door. 

9. The Inteijection shows surprise, 
As oh ! how pretty — aJi ! how wise. 

The whoie are caUed Nirte Parts of Speech, 
Which reading, writing, speaking, teach. 

MUSICAL CURIOSITY— Scotch Genius in TEACHrao.— A 
Highland piper, having a scholar to teach, disdained to crack 
his brains with the names of s'^raibreves, minims, crotchets and 
quavers. " Here, Donald," said he, " tak yer pipes, lad, and gie 
us a blast. So — wrra weel blawn, indeed ; but what's a sound, 
Donald, without sense ? Ye maun blaw forever without making 
a tune o't, if I dinna tell you how the queer things on the paper 
maun help you. You see that big fellow wi' a round, open face ? 
(pointing to a semibreve between two lines of a bar). He nioves 
slowly from that line to this, while ye beat ane wi' yer fist, and 
gie us a long blast. K, bow, ye put a le^ to him, ye mak' twa 
o' him, and he'll move twice as fast ; and if ye black his face, 
he'll run four times faster than the fellow wi' the white face; 
but if, after blacking his face, ye'll bend his knee or tie his le^ 
he'll hop eight times faster than the white-faced chap I showed 
you first. Now, whene'er ye blaw yer pipes, Donald, remember 
this — that the tighter those fellows' legs are tied, the faster 
they'll run, and the quicker they're sure to dance." 

That is, the more legs they have bent up, oontrary to 
nature, the faster goes the music. 



COLORING DEPARTMENT. 

REMARKS. — It may be necessary to remark, and I do 
1 ftere, once for all, that every article to be dyed, as well as 
everything used about dyeing, should be perfectly clean. 

In the next place, the article to be dyed should be well 
fltoured m soap, and then the soap rinsed out. It is also 
an advaft^age to dip the article you wish to dye into warm 
water, ja* t before putting it into the alum or other preparar 
tioH ; for the neglect of this precaution it is nothing uneona- 
mon to h<»ve the goods or yarn spotted. Soft water should 
always be used, if possible, and sufficient to cover the goods 
handsomely. 

As soon as an article is dyed it should be aired a little, 
then well rinsed, and afterwards hung up to dry. 

When dyeing or scouring silk or merino dresses, care 
should be taken not to wring them, for this has a tendency 
lo wrinkle and break the silk. 

In putting dresses and shawls out to dry, that have been 
dyed,* they should be hung up" by the edge so as to dry 
evenly. 

Great confidence may be placed in these coloring recipes, 
as the author has had them revised by Mr. Storms, of this 
city, who has been in the business over thirty years. 

COLORS ON WOOLEN GOODS. 

1. CHROME BLACK— Superior to Any in Use.— 
For 5 lbs. of goods — blue vitriol 6 ozs. ; boil it a few min- 
utes, then dip the goods J of an hour, airing often ; take 
out the good-s, and make a dye with logwood 8 lbs. ; boil J 
hour ; dip | of an hour and air the goods, and dip J of ao 
hour more. Wash iji strong suds. 

N. B. — This will not impart any of its color in fulling, 
oor fade by exposure to the sun. 

2. BLACK ON WOOL— Fo Mixtures.— For 10 lbs. 
of wool -bi-chromate of potash 4 ozs. ; ground argal 3 ozs. j 
boil together and put in the wool ; stir well and let it re- 
main in the dye 4 hours. Then take out the wool, rinse it 
slightly in clear water ; then make a new dye, into which 

(843) 



S44 Dlt. OHASS'S RE0IPK8. 

pat logwood 3i lbs. Boil 1 hour and add chamber- Ije 1 
pt., and let the wool lie in all night. Wash in clear water 

3. STEEL MIX— Dark— Black wool— it may be nat> 
ural or colored, 10 lbs. — white wool li lbs. Mix evenly t>* 
gether and it will be beautiful. 

4. SNUFF BROWN— Dark, for Cloth or Wool — 
For 5 lbs. goods — camwood 1 lb. ; boil it 15 minutes, then 
dip the goods for J hour ; take out the goods, and add to the 
dye, fustic 2 J lbs.; boil 10 minutes, and dip the goods i 
hour ; then add blue vitriol 1 oz. ; copperas 4 ozs. ; dip 
again i hour ; if not dark enough, add more copperas. It 
is dark and permanent. 

5. WINE COLOR.— For 5 lbs. goods— camwood 2 lbs. ; 
boil 15 minutes and dip the goods i hour ; boil again and 
dip J hour; then darken with blue vitriol IJ ozs.; if not 
dark enough, add copperas J oz. 

6. MADDER RED.— To each lb. of goods— alum 6 
ozs. ; red, or cream of tartar 1 oz. ; put in the goods and 
bring your kettle to a boil for i hour ; then air them and boi) 
i hour longer ; then empty your kettle and fill with clean 
water, put in bran 1 peck; make it milk warm and let it 
stand until the bran rises, then skim off the bran and put 
m madder J lb. ; -put in your goods and heat slowly untU it 
boils and is done. Wash in strong suds. 

7. GREEN — On Wool or Silr, with Oak Bark. — 
Make a strong yellow dye of yellow oak and hickory bark, 
in equal quantities. Add the extract of indigo, or chemic, 
(which see,) 1 table-spoon at a time, until you get the shade 
of color desired. Or : 

8. GREEN— With Fustic— For each lb. of goods- 
fustic 1 lb. ; with alum 3 J ozs. Steep until the strength ia 
cut, and soak the goods therein until a good yellow is ob- 
tained ; then remove the chips, and add extract of indigo 
or chemic, 1 table-spoon at a time, until the color suits. 

9. BLUE— Quick Process. — For 2 lbs. of goods, — alum 
5 ozs.; cream of tartar 3 ozs. ; boil the goods in this for 1 
hour ; then throw the goods into warm water, which has 
more or less of the extract of indigo in it, according to the 
depth of color desired, and boil ugain until it suits, adding 
more of the blue if Doedod. It is quick and permanent. 



COLORING DEPARTMENT. 345 

to. STOCIKING YARN, OK- WOOL TO COLOR— 
Betwken a Blue and Purple. — For 5 lbs. of wool bi- 
chromate ol potash 1 oz. ; alum 2 ozs. ; dissolve them and 
briug tJie water to a boil, putting in the wool and boiling 1 
hour J then tlirow away the dye and make another dye with 
litirwood chips 1 lb., or extract of logwood 2^ ozs., aud boii 
1 hour. This also works very prettily on silk. 

N B. — Whenever you make a dye with logwood chipf 
eitner boil the chips i hour aud pour off the dye, or tie u 
the chips in a bag and boil with the wool or other goods 
or take 2^ ozs. of the extract in place of 1 lb. of the chipt 
is \e:^ trouble and generally the better plan. In the abov 
reciptj the more logwood that is used the darker will be th 
shade ' 

11. oCARLET, WITH COCHINEAL— For Yarn ou 
Clotb. — For 1 lb. of goods — cream of tartar J oz. ; coch- 
ineal, well pulverized, i oz. ; muriate of tin 2 J ozs. ; then 
boil up die dye and enter the goods ; work them briskly for 
10 or ib minutes, after which boil 1 i hours, stirring thu 
goods slowly while boiling, wash in clear water and dry in 
the shade. 

12. PINK.— For 3 lbs. of goods— alum 3 ozs., boil and 
dip the goods 1 hour ; then add, to the dye, cream of tar- 
tar 4 ozs. , cochineal, well pulverized, 1 oz. j boil well and 
dip the goods while boiling, until the color suits. 

13. ORANGE.— For 5 lbs. goods— muriate of tin 6 
table-spoons ; argal 4 ozs. ; boil and dip 1 hour ; then add, 
to the dye, ttistic 2 J lbs. ; boil 10 minutes, and dip i hour, 
and add, again, to the dye, madder 1 tea-cup ; dip again J 
hour. 

N. B. — Cochineal in place of madder makes a much 
brighter color, which should be added in small quantities 
antil pleased. About 2 ozs. 

14. LAC RED. — For 5 lbs. goods — argal 10 ozs. ; boil a 
few minutes ; then mix fine ground lac 1 lb. with muriate 
ot tin Ik lbs., and let them stand 2 or 3 hours; then add halt 
01 the lac to the argal dye, and dip J hour ; then add the 
balance of the He and dip again 1 hour ; keep the dye at a 
boiling heat, 'v ' il the last half hour, when the dye may be 
cooled off. 



840 Dft. chase's recipes. 

15. PUKPLE.— For 5 lbs. goods—cream of tartai 4 
ozs.; alum 6 ozs.j cochineal, well pulverized, 2 ozs. ; muri- 
ate of tin i tea-cup. Boil the cream of tartar, alum and 
tin, 15 minutes ; then put in the cochineal and boil 5 min- 
utes ; dip the goods 2 hours ; then make a new dye with 
alum 4 ozs. ; Brazil wood 6 ozs.; logwood 14 ozs.; muriate 
of tin 1 tea-cup, with a little chemic; work again until 
j.leased. 

16. SILVER DRAB— Light.— For 5 lbs. goods— alum 
1 small tea-spoon, and logwood about the same amount ; boi] 
well together, then dip the goods 1 hour; if not dark 
enough, add in equal quantities alum and logwood, until 
suUed. 

17. SLATE, ON WOOLEN OR COTTON— With 
Beach Bark. — Boil the bark in an iron kettle, skim out 
the chips after it has boiled sufficiently, and then add cop- 
peras to set the dye. If you wish it very dark add more 
copperas. This is excellent for stockings. 

18. EXTRACT OF INDIGO OR CHEMIC— To 
Make. — For good chemic or extract of indigo, take oil of 
vitriol J lb., and stir into it indigo, finely ground, 2 ozs., 
continuing the stirring at first for i hour; now cover over, 
and stir 3 or 4 times daily for 2 or 3 days ; then put in a 
crumb of saleratus and stir it up, and if it foams, put in 
more and stir, and add as long as it foams; the saleratus 
neutralizes any excess of acid ; then put into a glass vessel 
and cork up tight. It improves by standing. Druggists 
keep this prepared. 

19. WOOL— To Cleanse.— Make a liquid of water 3 
parts and urine 1 part ; heat it as hot as you can bear the 
hand in it ; then put in the wool, a little at a timo, so as 
not to have it crowd ; let it remain in for 15 minutes ; take 
it out over a basket to drain ; then rinse in running water, 
and spread it out to dry ; thus proceed in the same liquor ) 
when it gets reduced fill it up, in the same proportions, 
keeping it at hand heat, all the time not using any soap. 

20. DARK COLORS-To Extract and Insert Light, 
— This recipe is calculated for carpet rags. In the first 
place let the rags be washed clean — the black or brown rags 
oan be colored red, or purple, at the option of the dyer; to do 



COLORING DEPARTMENT. 847 

this, take, for every 5 lbs black or brown rags muriate of 
tin j lb.; and the lac ^ lb.; mixed with the same, as fot 
the lac red ; dip the goods in this dye 2 hours, boiling ^ of 
the time, if not red enough add more tin and lac. The 
goods can then be made a purple, by adding a little logwood ; 
be careful, and not get in but a very small handful, as more 
can be added if not enough. White rags make a beautiful 
ippearance in a carpet, by tying them in the skein and col- 
ring them red, green or purple ; gray rags will take a very 
^i,ood green, — the coloring will be in proportion to the dark- 
uess of mix. 

DURABLE COLORS ON COTTON. 

1. BLACK. — For 5 lbs. goods — sumac, wood and bark 
together, 3 lbs. ; boil J hour, and let the goods steep 12 
hours ; then dip in lime water J hour ; then take out the 
goods and let them drip an hour ; now add to the sumac 
liquor, copperas 8 ozs., and dip another hour ; then run 
them through the tub of lime water again for 15 minutes • 
now make a new dye with logwood 2| lbs., by boiling 1$ 
hour, and dip again 3 hours ; now add bi-chromate of pot^ 
ash 2 ozs., to the logwood dye, and* dip 1 hour. Wash in 
clear cold water and dry in the shade. You may say this 
is doing too much. You cannot get a permanent black on 
cotton with Inss labor. 

2. SKY BLUE.— For 3 lbs. goods— blue vitriol 4 ozs.j 
Doil a few minutes ; then dip the goods 3 hours, after which 
pass them through strong lime water. You can make thip 
color a beautiful brown by putting the goods through a so- 
lution of Prussiate of potash. 

3. LIME WATER, AND STRONG LIME WATER.— 
Foe Coloring. — Lime water is made by putting stone lime 1 
lb., and stroni? lime water, 1^ lbs. into a pail of water, slack- 
ing, stirring, and letting it stand until it becomes clear, then 
turn into a tub of water, in which dip the goods. 

4. BLUE, ON COTTON OR LINEN— With Logwood 
In all cases, if new, they should be boiled in a strong soap 
suds or weak-lye and rinsed clean ; then for cotton 5 lbs. 
or linen 3 lbs., take bi-chromate of potash | lb. ; put in 
the goods and dip 2 hours, then take out, rinse j make a 



84*$ DR. chase's REOIl'BS. 

ayvj with logwood 4 lbs. ; dip in this 1 hour, air, at I let 
stand in the dye 3 or 4 hours, or till the dye is almost cold 
wash out aud dry. 

5. BLUE ON COTTON— WITHOUT Logwood.— t for 5 
lbs. of rags — copperas 4 ozs. ; boil and dip 15 minutes j then 
dip in strong suds, and back to the dye 2 or 3 times; thco 
make a dye with prussiate of potash 1 oz.j oil of vit»iol i 
table-spoons j boil 30 minutes and rinse j then dr)*. 

6. GREEN. — If the cotton is new, boil in weak-lye ox 
etrong .suds j then wash and dry ; give the cotton a dip in 
the home-made blue dye-tub until blue enough is obtained 
to make the green as dark as required, take out, dry, aud 
rinse the goods a little ; then make a dye with fustic J lb. ; 
logwood 3 ozs. to each lb. of goods, by boiling the dye 1 
hour ; when cooled so as to bear the hand^ put in the cot- 
ton, move briskly a few minutes, and let lay in 1 hour; 
take out and let it thoroughly drain j dissolve and add to 
the dye, for each lb. of cotton, blue-vitriol J oz., and dip 
another hour ; wring out and let dry in the shade. By ad- 
ding or diminishing the logwood and fustic, any shade of 
green may be obtained. 

7. YELLOW. — For 5 lbs. of goods — sugar of lead 7 oz.s. ; 
dip the goods 2 hours j make a n-ew dye with bi-chromate 
of potash 4 ozs. ; dip until the color suits, wring out and 
dry, if not yellow enough repeat, the operation. 

8. ORANGE.— For 5 lbs. goods — sugar of lead 4 ozs. ; 
boil a few minutes, and when a little cool put in the goods, 
dip 2 hours, wring out ; make a new dye with bi-chromatc 
of potash 8 ozs. ; madder 2 ozs. ; dip until it suits ; if the 
color should be too red, take off a small sample and dip it 
into lime water, when the choice can be taken of the sam 
pie dipped in the lime or the original color. 

8. RED. — Take muriate of tin i of a tea-cup ; add sufii- 
icnt water to cover the goods well, bring it to a boiling 
i9eat, putting in the goods 1 hour, stirring often ; take out 
the goods aud empty the kettle and put in clean water, witn 
nic-wood 1 lb., steeping it for i hour, at hand heat ; theh 
put in the goods and increase the heat for 1 hear, not bring- 
ing to a boil at all ; air the goods and dip an hour as be 
lore ; wash without soap. 



COLORING DEPARTMENT, 349 



9. MURIATE OF TIN— Tin Liquor— If druggists 
ieep it, it is best to purchase of them already made ; but ii 
you prefer, proceed as follows : 

Get at a tinner's shop, block tin ; -put it in a shovel and 
melt it. After it is melted, pour it from the hight of 4 or 
5 feet into a pail of clear water. The object of this is to 
have the tin in small particles, so that the acid can dissolva 
it. Take it out of the water and dry it j then put it into a 
strong glass bottle ; pour over ii muriatic aeid 12 ozs. ; then 
slowly, add Bulphuric acid 8 ozs. The acid should be add- 
ed about a table-spoon at a tiiac, at intervals of 5 or 8 min- 
utes, for if you add it too rapidly you run the risk of 
breaking the bottle by lieat. After you have all the acid 
in, let the bottle stand until the ebullition subsides ; then 
stop it up with a bees-wax or glass stopper, and set it away, 
aud it will keep good for a year or more, or will be fit for 
use in 24 hours. 

COLORSON SILK GOODS. 

GREEN — Very Handsome with Oak Bark.— For 1 

lb. of silk — yellow oak bark 8 ozs. ; boil it J hour ; turn 
off the liquor from the bark and add alum 6 ozs. j let stand 
until cold ; while this dye is being * made, color the goods in 
ehe blue dye-tub, a light blue ; dry and wash ; then dip in 
the alum and bark dyo ; if it doe-s not take well, warm the 
dye a little. 

2. GREEN OR YELLOW— On Silk or Wool, in 
Five to Fifteen Minutes. — For 5 lbs. of goods — black 
oak bark or peach leaves J peck ; boil well ; then take out 
the bark or leaves, and add muriate of tin i tea-cup, stir- 
ring well ; then put in the goods and stir them round, and 
it will dye a deep yellow in from 5 to 15 minutes, according 
to thd strength of the bark ; take out the goods, rinse and 
dry immediately 

N B. — For a green, add, to the above dye, extract of 
indigo, or chemic 1 table-spoon only, at a time, and work 
the goods 5 minutes, and air ; if not sufficiently dark use 
t.l«j same amount of chemic as before, and work again until 
it «uits. 

3. MULBERRY— For 1 lb. of silk— alum 4 ozs. ; dip 1 



850 DR. cqasb's recipes 

hour ; wash out, and make a dye with Brazil wood 1 oi^ 
and logwood i oz. by boiling together ; dip in this i hour, 
then add more Brazil wood and logwood, in equal propor- 
tions, until the color is dark enough. 

4. BLACK. — Make a weak dye as you would for black 
on woolens, work the goods in bi-chromate of potash, at a 
little below boiling heat, then dip in the logwood in the 
game way ; if colored in the blue vitriol dye, use about the 
same heat. 

5. SPOTS — To Remove and Prevent when Color- 
ing Black on Silk or Woolen. — N. B. In dyeing silk or 
woolen goods, if they should become rusty or spotted, all 
that is necessary is to make a wcak-lye, and have it scalding 
hot, and put your goods in for 15 minutes ; or throw 
some ashes into your dye, and run your goods in it 5 
minutes, and they will come out a jet black, and an eveu 
color. I will warrant it. — Stoi'ms. 

The reason that spots of brown, or rust, as it is generally 
called, appear on black cloths, is that these parts t'lke the 
jolor faster than the other parts ; but I have no doubt Mr. 
^terms' plan will remove them, for he regretted much to 
make public the information, which he says is not generally 
known. And if the precaution, given in our leading re- 
marks on coloring, are heeded, there will be but very little 
danger of spotting at all. 

6. LIGHT C HEMIC BLUE.— For cold water 1 gal., 
dissolve alum i table-spoon, in hot water 1 tea-cup, and add 
to it ; then add chemic 1 tea-spoon at a time, to obtain the 
desired color, — the more chemic that is used, the darker 
will be the color. 

7 PURPLE.— For 1 lb. of silk— haviag first obtained 
a light blue by dipping in the home-made blue dye-tub. aad 
dried, dip in alum 4 ozs., to sufficient water to cover, whea 
a little warm ; if the color is not full enough add a little 
chemic. 

6. YELLOW.— Fori lb. of silk— alum 3 ozs.; sugar ot 
lead I ozs ; immerse the goods in the solution over night j 
take out, drain, and make a new dye with fustic 1 lb. j dip 
until the required color is obtained. 

N. B. The yellow or green, for wool, works equally well 
on silk. 



COLOBINQ I>£PABTM£NT. 851 

9. ORANGE. — Take anotta and soda, and add in equal 

q^uantities, according to the amount of goods and darkness 
of the color wanted : Say 1 oz. of each, to each pound of silk, 
and repeat as desired. 

10. CRIMSON.— For 1 lb. of silk— alum 3 ozs. ; dip at 
hand-heat 1 hour ; take out and drain, while making a ne\v 
dye, by boiling 10 minutes, cochineal- 3 ozs. ; bruised nut- 
galls 2 ozs. ; and cream of tartar i oz., in one pail of water j 
when a little cool, begin to d'.p, raising the heat to a boil 
continuing to dip 1 hour; wash and dry. 

11. CINNAMON OR BROWN ON COTTON AND 
SILK. — By a New Process — Very Beautiful. — Give 
the goods as much color, from a solution of blue vitriol 2 
ozs., to water 1 gallon, as it will take up in dipping 
15 minutes; then run it through lime-water; this will 
m:ike a beautiful sky-blue, of much durability ; it has now 
to be run through a solution of Prussiate of potash 1 oz., 
to water 1 gal. 



TABLES AND EXPLANATIONS OF INTEREST. 

INTEREST — Legal Rates allowed in each of thb 

DIFFERENT STATES J AlSO, SHOWING WHAT KATES MAY 

be contracted for, and collected j and giving thk 
Forfeitures when Illegal rates are Attempted to 
BE collected. — First, then Six percent is the Legal rate 
in the States of Maine, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, 
Connecticut, Vermont, Delaware, Maryland, Pennsylvania, 
Virginia, North Carolina, Florida, (^Eight per cent, is allowed 
in this State if agreed upon), Mississippi, Tennessee, Ar- 
kansas, Kentucky, Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Missouri, Iowa, 
and New Jersey, excepting, in Hudson and Essex Counties, 
and the city of Patterson, in this last State, Seven per cent 
is allowed, when either of the parties reside therein. 

Second ; Seven per cent, is the Legal rate in Michigan, 
New York, Minnesota, Wisconsin, South Carolina, and 
Georgia. 

Third ; Ten per cent, is the Legal rate in California ; 
Eight per cent, in Alabama and Texas, and as strange as it 
may appear, in Louisiana only Five per cent. 

Maine and Vermont allow'no higher than iegal interest 
to be collected, even if agreed upon. And if paid it caa 
bo recovered again, but no forfeiture. 

In New Hampshire, three times the legal rate is forfeited 
if unlawfully taken. 

Rhode Island, has no forfeiture, but allows legal iutftrast 
to be collected, even on usurious contracts. 

In Connecticut, if usurious contracts are made, the prin- 
ciple only can be collected, to the lender, or, if collected, 
can be recovered, one-half to the informer, the other half to 
the State Treasuiy. 

New York voids usurious contracts ; but, if paid, onlj 
allows the excess over legal rates to be collected back. 

New Jersey, also, voids usurious contracts, reserving hnJf 
to the State, and half to the informer. 

Pennsylvania allows only legal interest to be collectod. 



INTEREST DEPARTMENT. /S5$ 

Deleware allows usurious contracts to be collected, half to 
the State and half to the prosecutor. 

Maryland allows only legal rates to be collected. 

Virginia voids the contract, and doubles the debt, half to 
the informer and half to the State. 

"STorth Carolina is the same a3 Virginia. 

South Carolina, Florida, and Alabama, allow forfeitures 
)f only the interest. 

In Mississippi, although ^Ix per cent, is the legal interest 
ou common debts, yet for money, actually borrowed, eff/ht 
per cent is allowed, and although a rate may be agreed upon 
above what the law allows, simple interest may still be col- 
lected. 

Louisiana, although allowing only^tc per cent, where no 
stipulation is made, permits gi'yht per cent, in agreement, and 
Bank interest to be si'j. per cent. 

In Texas, although ei(//it per cent, only is the legal rate, 
yet twelve may be contracted for, but if higher rates an 
agreed upon, none can be collected. 

Arkansas allows as high as tai ptar cent, ou contract, but 
voids usurious contracts. 

Tennes.see allow.s a fine to be collected not less in amount 
than is unlawfully taken. 

Kentucky only voids usurious excesses. 

Michigan and allow ten per cent, to be contraoted 

for, and void only excesses, if any are taken. 

Jndiana allows only her legal rates to be contracted for, 
and may be collected back, if, in any case, it should be ob- 
tained. 

Illinois allows ten per cent, on money, actually bor'-owed. 
and only lawful rates can be collected. 

In Missouri, ten per cent, may be contracted for, but for- 
foite ten per cent, to the common school fund, in cases where 
more than lawful rates are obtained. 

Iowa permits ten per cent, to be agreed upon, and allowi 
ill illegal interest to be collected buck 

—COPY RIGHT BECUREU. 



854 DB. OHASB's JtEOIPES. 

Wisconsin formerly permitted twelve per cent to be ^reed 
upon, and those who paid more than lawful rates might re- 
cover back three times the amount paid ; but more recently 
allows only *ew per cent., and makes all above that amount 
utvriovs. 

California and Minnesota allow any rate agreed upon to be 
collectefl . 

The interest which the State allows to be collected on n^tes 
drawn, " with use," not specifying the rate, is called lepal, 
and that which some States allow to be contracted for, above 
the legal rate is lawful; but when a larger rate is taken, or 
•greed upon, it is called usurious^ and subjects the person 
agreeing for it, or receiving it, to l\iQ penalties^ or forfeU*'-reSy 
as giveu in the foregoing explanations. 

Any Agent, or other person, who may know of any 
changes in their States from these rules, will confw a itff^t 
cm the Author by communicating the same. 



EXPLANATIONS OF THE INTEREST TABLES. 

f desired to obtain the interest on $1,111 00, for 1 year, 4 

months, and 27 days, at 6 per cent. 

Turning to the tables you will see that the time is given 
in the left-hand column, the amounts on which you desire 
to find the interest are given at the heads of the various 
right-hand columns, the sum sought is found at the meeting 
of the lines to the right of the time, and down from the 
amount, aa folio fv a : 
The interest on $1,000, 1 year, at 6 per cent, $60,00 

» <' »' 100, " " « " " 6,00 

(( «« •• 10 " " u « « gQ 

i< « « \ .1 ^^ a ^^ a ... 06 

« " « 1,000' 4 months, " " " '.'.*.*... 20,00 

" " " 100," " " " " 2,00 

M « «< \Q U U « « U .... 20 

« (( u 2 " " <' (( <( ^ ^ 02 

« « " 1,000,' 27 days, " " " .'.' 4,50 

U u U J^QQ u u u u (i ... 45 

u «i « 2^0 « K «' u (( ^ ^ ^ ^ Q5 

« « (( 1 " '* « « « QQ 

Whole sum of interest sought, $93,88 

In the same manner, proceed with any other amounts, or 
any other time, or rate per cent, j and if for more than one 
year, multiply the interest for \ year by the number of years 
for whi^h the interest is sought; if for twenty, thirty, sixty, 
or aay other amount between ten and one hundred dollars, 
multiply the interest on ten dollars, by the number of tens 
iu the amount, which gives you the whole sum of interest 
sought ; the same rule holds good on hundreds, betweea 
one hundred and one thousand, and also, on thousands. 

To find interest at 5 per cent, take one-half of the 10 
per cent rate. 

And, of course, the principle works the same on all of 
vhe tables, for the different rates of per cent. 
(355) 



MO 



DR. CIJASF/s RECIPE8. 



aiX PER GENT. 



i 

n 




$1 


12 


$3 


$4 


|5 


$6 


17 


18 


19 


$10 


$100 


1 


DAT 














-0 

















2 


8 


































8 


8 































1 


5 


4 



























1 


1 


7 


6 
















e 








1 


1 


8 


6 
























1 


1 


10 


7 
























1 


1 


12 


8 























1 


1 


18 


9 























1 


2 


15 


10 






















2 


2 


17 


11 






















2 


2 


18 


13 




















2 


2 


2 


20 


13 


















2 


2 


2 


2 


22 


14 


















3 


2 


2 


•> 


23 


15 















2 


2 


2 


2 


3 


25 


16 















o 


2 


2 


2 


3 


27 


17 















2 


2 


2 


3 


3 


28 


18 













2 


2 


2 


2 


3 


8 


30 


19 













o 


2 


2 


3 


3 


3 


32 


20 













2 


2 


2 


3 


3 


3 


33 


21 













2 


2 


2 


3 


3 


4 


35 


23 











2 


2 
2 


2 
2 


8 
3 


3 
3 


3 
3 


4 
4 


37 


23 




88 


34 











2 


2 


3 


3 


3 


4 


4 


40 


3d 











2 


2 


3 


3 


3 


4 


4 


42 


26 











2 


2 


3 


3 


3 


4 


4 


43 


27 











2 


2 


3 


3 


4 


4 


5 


45 


2S 











2 


2 


3 


3 


4 


4 


5 


47 


29 











2 


2 


3 


3 


4 


4 


5 


48 


1 MONTQ 1 




2 


2 


3 


3 


4 


4 


5 


5 


50 


2 


" 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


10 


1.00 


3 


n 


2 


3 


5 


6 


8 


9 


11 


12 


U 


15 


1,50 


4 


(t 


2 


4 


6 


8 


10 


12 


14 


18 


18 


20 


2,00 


5 


ii 


3 


5 


8 


10 


13 


15 


18 


20 


2:3 


25 


2,50 


6 


u 


3 


6 


9 


12 


1,-) 


18 


21 


24 


27 


30 


3,00 


4 


*' 


4 


7 


11 


14 


18 


21 


25 


28 


32 


35 


3,50 


8 


" 


4 


8 


12 


18 


20 


24 


33 


32 


38 


40 


4,00 


9 


II 


5 


9 


14 


18 


23 


27 


33 


38 


41 


45 


4.50 


10 


« 


5 


10 


!.■} 


20 


21 


30 


35 


40 


45 


50 


5.00 


11 


II 


8 


11 


17 


22 


28 


'is 


39 


44 


50 


55 


5,50 


I 


TEAB 


. 8 


12 


18 


24 


30 


36 


42 


48 


54 


60 


6,00 



$100« 

17 
33 

no 

67 
83 
1,00 
1.17 
1,33 
1,50 
1,67 
1,88 
2,00 
2,17 
2,33 
2,50 
2/i7 
2,83 
3,00 
3.17 
3,33 
3,50 
3.67 
8,83 
4.00 
4.17 
4,33 
4.50 
4,67 
4,83 
5.00 
10,00 
15,00 
'V),00 
'^5,00 
J'^O.OO 

;-5.oo 

4<),00 
45,00 
50.00 
5&II0 
6Q.UC 



INTEUESV DEPATMENT ^57 

I2^TTEIR,EST T.A.BI1.E. 

S E V K N I' K It e K N T . 



1 DAY. 

3 " 
8 " 

4 " 

5 " 

6 " 

7 " 

8 " 

9 " 

10 " 

11 " 
13 " 
13 " 
.4 " 

15 " 

16 " 

17 " 

18 " 

ly " 

20 " 

21 " 

22 " 
2a " 

24 " 

25 " 
36 " 

27 " 

28 " 

29 " 

1 MONTH 

2 " 

3 " 

4 " 

5 " 
G " 

7 " 

8 " 

9 " 

10 " 

11 " 

1 TEAR. 



2 
2 
2 
2 
4 
5 
7 

6 9 

7 11 

8 12 

9 14 

11 IG 

12 IS 

13 19 

14 21 



$2 $3 $4 %r) ^6 |7 |S $9 $10 flQO $1030 

000000000 2 19 

0000 000 4 39 

00000001 1 6 58 
00000111 1 8 78 
1111 1 10 97 
11111 1 13 1,17 
111111 1 14 1,36 
111111 2 IG 1,56 

112 2 18 1,75 

13 3 3 19 1,94 

12 2 2 21 2,14 

2 2 3 3 23 3,33 

3 3 3 3 25 3,53 
3 3 3 3 37 3,73 
3 3 3 3 39 3,92 

3 3 3 3 3 31 3,11 

3 3 3 3 3 33 3,31 

3 2 3 3 4 35 3,50 

3 3 3 3 4 37 3,69 

3 3 3 4 4 39 3,89- 

3 3 3 4 4 41 .4,08 

3 3 3 4 4 48 4,38 

3 3 4 4 4 45 4,47 

3 3 4 4 5 47 4,67 

3 3 4 4 5 49 4,86 

3 4 4 5 5 51 5,06 

3 4 4 5 5 53 5,25 
8 4 4 5 5 54 5,14 
8 4 5 5 6 56 5,64 

4 4 5 5 6 58 5,83 
7 8 9 U 13 1,17 11,67 

11 13 14 16 18 1,75 17,50 

14 16 19 31 33 2,33 23,33 

18 20 23 36 39 2,93 29,17 

21 25 28 33 35 3,50 35,00 

25 29 33 37 41 4,08 40,83 

38 33 37 43 47 4,67 46,67 
33 37 43 47 53 5,25 53,50 
35 41 47 53 58 5,83 68,33 

39 45 51 58 64 6,42 64,17 
43 49 56 63 70 7,00 70.00 



2 

3 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

5 

7 

9 12 
12 15 
14 18 

16 20 

17 23 
21 26 
23 29 
26 32 
28 35 



85a DR. chase's RECIPE8. 

KIQHT PER CENT 



1 DAT. 

2 " 
8 " 

4 " 

5 " 

6 " 

7 " 

8 " 
« " 

10 " 

11 " 
13 " 

13 " 

14 " 

15 " 

16 " 

17 " 

18 " 

19 " 
"20 " 

21 ♦•" 

22 " 

23 " 

24 " 

25 " 

26 " 

27 " 

28 " 

29 " 



$1 























1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 



$2 $3 |4 













iMONTn 1 



2 
8 
4 
S 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 
11 

1 TtfiAS 8 

















2 
2 
2 

2 

2 2 

2 2 

2 2 

2 2 

2 2 

Z 2 

2 3 

2 3 

4 5 

6 8 

8 11 

10 18 

13 16 

9 14 19 

11 16 21 

13 18 2^4 

i:{ 20 27 

15 23 29 

16 24 33 



15 








2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

3 

8 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

7 

10 

13 

17 

20 

23 

27 

30 

S:j 

37 

40 



17 $8 




|9 |10 $100 



3 

2 

2 

2 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

4 

4 

4 

4 

8 

13 14 10 
16 19 21 
20 23 27 
24 28 33 
28 33 37 
32 37 43 
36 43 48 
40 47 53 
44 51 59 
48 56 04 



5 
11 






1 
1 
1 
1 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
3 
3 
3 
3 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
5 
5 
5 

5 5 
5 6 
5 6 

5 6 

6 6 
6 6 
6 7 

12 13 
18 20 
24 27 
30 83 
86 10 
43 47 
48 53 
54 00 
60 67 
06 73 
73 80 



2 
4 

7 

9 

11 

13 

18 

18 

20 

22 

24 

27 

29 

81 

33 

36 

38 

40 

42 

44 

47 

49 

51 

53 

56 

58 

60 

62 

64 

67 

1,33 

2.00 

2,67 

3,33 

4,00 

4,67 

5,33 

6,00 

6,()7 

7,33 

8,00 



$1000 

sa 

44 

67 

89 

1,11 

1,88 

1.56 

1,78 

2,00 

2,22 

2,44 

2,67 

2,W» 

8,11 

8,33 

3,50 

3,78 

4,00 

4,22 

4,44 

4,07 

4,88 

5,11 

5,33 

5,56 

5.78 

6,00 

6,32 

6,44 

6,67 

13,33 

20,00 

26.67 

33,33 

40,0t 

46,0 

53,A 

60,(K) 

60,67 

73,33 

80,00 



INTEREST DEl'ARTMENT. 



urn 



NINE PER OENT. 



^ 




11 


$2 


$3 


$4 


15 


$6 


$7 


$8 


$9 


$10 


$100 


$1000 


1 ] 


[>AT. 
































S 


25 


2 


(( 





























1 


6 


60 


8 


N 
























1 


1 


8 


75 


4 


tl 






















1 


1 


10 


1,00 


5 


(( 





















1 


1 


18 


1,25 


6 


r* 





















1 


2 


16 


l.-'iO 


7 


u 




















2 


i2 


18 


1.75 


8 


ii 


















2 


2 


2 


20 


2,00 


9 


II 
















2 


2 


2 


2 


28 


2.25 


10 


l( 













2 


2 


2 


2 


8 


25 


2,50 


11 


<l 













2 


2 


2 


2 


3 


28 


2,r5 


12 


II 











2 


2 


2 


2 


8 


3 


30 


8.00 


13 


II 











2 


2 


2 


3 


3 


3 


33 


3,25 


14 


i" 











2 


2 


2 


3 


3 


4 


35 


3,50 


15^ 


II 









2 


2 


2 


3 


3 


3 


4 


38 


3,75 


16'' 


il 









2 


2 


2 


3 


3 


4 


4 


40 


4,'JO 


17 


II 









2 


2 


3 


3 


3 


4 


4 


43 


4,i5 


18 


II 









2 


2 


3 


3 


4 


4 


5 


45 


4,n0 


19 


II 









2 


2 


3 


3 


4 


4 


5 


48 


4,75 


20 


II 






2 


2 


3 


3 


4 


'4 


5 


5 


50 


5,00 


81 


II 






2 


2 


3 


3 


4 


4 


5 


5 


53 


5,l;5 


22 


II 






2 


2 


3 


3 


4 


4 


5 


6 


55 


5,(ia 


23 


II 






2 


2 


3 


3 


4 


5 


5 


6 


58 


5,75 


U 


II 






2 


2 


3 


4 


4 


5 


5 





60 


6,00 


25 


11 






2 


3 


8 


4 


4 


5 


6 





63 


6,25 


26 


l< 






2 


3 


3 


4 


5 


5 


6 


7 


05 


6,50 


27 


II 






2 


3 


3 


4 


5 


5 


6 


7 


68 


6,75 


28 


II 






2 


3 


4 


4 


5 





6 


7 


70 


7,00 


29 


11 






2 


3 


4 


4 


5 





7 


7 


73 


7,25 


1 MONTH 1 


2 


2 


3 


4 


5 


5 


6 


7 


8 


75 


7,50 


2 


" 


2 


3 


5 


G 


8 


9 


11 


12 


14 


15 


1,50 


15,00 


3 


II 


2 


5 


7 


9 


11 


14 


10 


18 


20 


23 


2,25 


22,50 


4 


II 


3 


6 


9 


12 


15 


18 


21 


24 


27 


30 


3,00 


30,00 


5 


II 


4 


8 


11 


15 


19 


23 


26 


30 


34 


88 


3,75 


87,50 


6 


II 


5 


9 


14 


18 


23 


27 


32 


86 


41 


45 


4,50 


45,00 


7 


II 


6 


11 


16 


21 


20 


32 


37 


42 


47 


53 


0,25 


52,50 


8 


II 


6 


12 


18 


24 


30 


30 


42 


48 


54 


60 


6,00 


60.00 


9 


l( 


7 


14 


80 


27 


34 


41 


47 


54 


01 


68 


6,75 


67,60 


10 


II 


8 


15 


28 


30 


38 


45 


53 


00 


03 


75 


7,50 


75/)0 


11 


II 


8 


17 


25 


38 


41 


50 


58 


66 


74 


83 


8,25 


82,50 


I 


TEAI 


:. 9 


18 


27 


86 


45 


54 


63 


72 


81 


90 


9,0C 


90,00 



860 DR. chase's recipes. 

INTEREST TABLE. 

TEN PER CENT. 



$1 |3 $3 |4 |5 $6 $7 $8 $9 $10 $100 flOOO 



1 


DAT. 
































3 


28 


2 


<( 


























1 


1 


6 


56 


3 


<t 





















1 


1 


1 


8 


83 


4 


<i 




















1 


1 


1 


11 


1.11 


5 


i< 



















1 


1 


1 


14 


1,39 


6 


t( 


















1 


2 


2 


17 


1,67 


7 


i< 


















2 


2 


2 


19 


2,94 


8 


ii 
















2 


2 


2 


2 


23 


2,23 


9 


« 













2 


2 


2 


2 


8 


25 


2,50 


10 


It 













2 


2 


2 


3 


3 


28 


2,78 


11 


11 











2 


2 


3 


3 


3 


3 


81 


3,06 


13 


<i 











2 


2 


2 


3 


3 


3 


33 


3,33 


13 


i( 











2 


3 


3 


3 


3 


4 


36 


3,61 


14 


(( 









2 


2 


2 


3 


3 


4 


4 


39 


3,89 


15 


<( 









2 


2 


3 


3 


3 


4 


4 


43 


4,17 


16 


i< 









2 


2 


8 


3 


4 


4 


4 


44 


4,44 


17 


i( 









2 


2 


3 


3 


4 


4 


5 


47 


4,73 


18 


Ii 






2 


2 


3 


3 


4 


4 


5 


5 


50 


5,00 


19 


«' 






2 


2 


3 


3 


4 


4 


5 


5 


53 


5,28 


20 


It 






2 


3 


3 


3 


4 


4 


5 


6 


56 


5,56 


21 


iC 






2 


2 


S 


4 


4 


5 


5 


6 


58 


5,88 


22 


<t 






2 


2 


3 


4 


4 


5 


6 


6 


61 


6,11 


23 


<( 






2 


3 


3 


4 


4 


5 


6 


6 


64 


6,89 


24 


<( 






2 


3 


3 


4 


5 


5 


6 


7 


67 


6,67 


25 


t( 






2 


3 


3 


4 


5 


6 


6 


7 


69 


6,94 


26 


>i 






2 


3 


4 


4 


5 


6 


7 


7 


72 


7,23 


27 


«( 




2 


2 


3 


4 


5 


5 


6 


7 


8 


75 


7,50 


28 


>( 




2 


2 


3 


4 


5 


5 


6 


7 


8 


78 


7,78 


29 


tt 




2 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


6 


7 


8 


81 


8,06 


1 MONTH, 




2 


3 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


8 


83 


8,33 


2 


t( 


2 


3 


5 


7 


8 


10 


12 


13 


15 


17 


1,67 


16,67 


3 


it 


3 


5 


8 


10 


15 


15 


18 


20 


23 


25 


2,50 


25,00 


4 


u 


3 


7 


10 


13 


17 


20 


23 


27 


30 


33 


3,33' 


33,33 


5 


it 


4 


8 


13 


17 


21 


25 


29 


33 


38 


42 


4,17 


41,67 


6 


i( 


5 


10 


15 


20 


25 


80 


35 


40 


45 


50 


5,00 


50,00 


7 


(1 


6 


12 


18 


23 


29 


35 


41 


47 


53 


58 


5,83 


58,88 


8 


l( 


7 


13 


20 


27 


33 


40 


47 


53 


60 


67 


6,67 


66,67 


9 


tl 


8 


15 


23 


30 


38 


45 


53 


60 


68 


75 


7,50 


75,00 


10 


(1 


8 


17 


25 


33 


42 


50 


58 


67 


75 


83 


8,83 


83,38 


u 


t( 


9 


18 


28 


37 


46 


55 


64 


73 


83 


93 


9,17 


91,67 


1 


TSAB. 


10 


20 


30 


40 


50 


60 


70 


80 


90 1,00 


10,00 


100,00 



RULES FOR ADMINISTERING MEDICINES. HAVING 
REFERENCE TO AGE AND SEX. 

For an adult, (a person of 40 years,) the dose of commoa 

medicines is allowed to be about 1 drachm, 60 grains. 

Those, at 20 years, 2-3 " 40 " 

" 13 " 1-2 " 30 " 

« 7 " 1-8 " 20 " 

u 4 « 1.4 it 15 «4 

" 3 " 1-6 •' 10 " 

" 2 " 1-8 " 7 to 8 *• 

** 1 " 1-12 " 5 " 

For babes, under 1 year, the dose should go down by 

months, at about the same rate as by years, for those over 1 

year. 

Again, for persons in advanced life, say from 60 years, the 
dose must begin to lessen about 5 grains, and from that on, 5 
grains for each additional 10 years. 
Females, however, need a little less, generally than males. 
The above rules hold good in all medicines, except castof 
oil, the proportion of which cannot be reduced so much, and 
opium, and its various preparations, which mutt bt reduced 
generally, in a little greater proportion. 



(8«) 



Kxplanatlens of medical Abbreriatlons, Apotll* 
ecarles liVeights and Measures. 

One pound (lb.) contains 12 ounces. 
One ounce (oz.) " 8 drachms. 
f One drachm (dr.) " 3 scruples. 

One scruple (scru.) " 20 grains, (gr.) 

LIQUID MEASURE. 

One pint contains 16 fluid ozs., 4 gills. 
One ounce " 8 " drs., 1-4 " 

One table-spoon " about half a fluid ounce. 
One tea-spoon " " one fluid drachm. 
Sixty drops make about one tea-spoon. 

Whenever a tea, or table-spoon is mentioned, it means the 
same as it would to say spoonful ; the same of cup, in fluid 
measures ; but in dry measures, where a spoon, or spoonful 
is mentioned, the design is that the spoon should be taken up 
moderately rounding, unless otherwise mentioced. 



0tm^ 



EXPLANATION OF TECHNICAL TERMS FOUND IN 
MEDICAL WORKS. 

Abdomen. .The lOwer front part of the body. 

Aromatic . . Spicy and fragrant drugs ; used to prevent gripe* 
ing of drastic purgatives. 

Aperient. .A gentle laxative or purgative. 

Acidity . .Sourness. Acids neutralize alkalies. 

4^A;a/wte. .Having the properties of alkali. Alkalies neu- 
tralize acids. 

Antacid . Medicines which neutralize acids. 

Anti. .Being prefixed to any word signifies against. 

Antiscorbutic. .Alteratives for Scrofula; blood purifiers. 

Antisyphilitic . . Remedy for Venerial diseases. 

4^Jms. .White, hence whites; fluor albus. 

Antiaialagogue. .Remedy for Salivation. 

Antiseptic . .That which will prevent putrefaction. 

Antiphlogistic. .Remedy for fevxjr and infiammation 

Antispasmodic . . Remedy for Spasms, cramps, or convulsions. 

Ano((t/ne..A medicine which will allay pain and produce 
sleepiness. 

Alterative. .Medicines which will gradually restore healthy 
action. 

Astringent. .Medicines whi-oh constringe, draw up surfaces 
with which they come in contact ; used in Flood- 
ing, Diarrhea, Whites, &c. 

Abscess. .A cavity containing pus. 

47icmta .. Without blood, more properly blood without its 
proportion of iron, which gives it the bright red. 

Alvine. .Relating to the intestines. 

■Aliment. .Any kind of food. 

Alimentary Canal. .The entire passage through the whole 
intestines from mouth to anus ; the passage for 
the aliment. 

Alhumtn. .An element found in both animal and vegetable 
substances, constituting the chief part of the 
white of eggs. 

iln(tmcmiaZ., Medicines containing antimony. 
(363) 



:>64 Da. CHASE'S aRClI*ES. 

inug. .The external opening of the rectum^ lower intetv^ 

tine. 
Antiperiodic . .That which cures periodie diseases, as Ague, 

lutermittent Fevers. 
Antidote. . An opposing medicine, U6«d chiefly against poison. 
Adult. .A person of full growth. 
Aqua. .Water. 

Aqua Ammonia . . Water of Ammonia. 
Amenorrhea. .Absence of the menses. 
Antiemetie. .That which will btop vomiting; against emesis. 
Arseni6..A metal, the oxide of which is arsenioua acid, 

eommonlj called ratsbane. 
Ahortion. .A premature birth, or miscarriage. 
Abortives. .That which will cause abortion. 
Abrasion . .Urumng the skin. 
Acetat* . . A salt prepared with acetic acid. 
.4cn'<i. .Irritating, biting. 

Adhesive. .Applied to sticking plasters, and to parts adher- 
ing^ from inflammations. 
Bdhn . . Aromatic and fragrant medicine, usually an oint 

ment. 
Balsam . .KesinoMS suostances, possessing healing proper 

ties. 
Bnsilif-on. .An ointment containing wax, rosin, &o. 
Belladonna . . Nightshade. 

Bergamx)t. .Perfume made from the lemon peel. 
Bile. .A secretion from the liver. 
Bilious. .An undue amount of bile. 
Bi-tartrate of Potash . . Cream of tartar. 
Blanch. .To whiten. 
Bowels . . Intestines. 
Bolus. .A large pill. 
Bronchia . . Branches of the windpipe. 
Bronchitis . . Inflammation of the bronchial tubes, which lead 

into the lungs, 
fironc/tocefe. .Enlargement of the thyroid gland, enlarged 

neck. 
Butyric Acid. .An acid obtained from butter. 
Calcium . , The metahc basis of lims, (see fluor jpar.) 
Calimns . . Sweet flag 
Calcareous. .A Bubstauce containing chalk or lime. 



OL08SARIAL DEPARTMENT. 886 

Cedcined. .Barned so as to be easily reduced to powder. 
Calculus . .Stone or gravel found in the bladder, gall ducts, 

kidneys, and ureters ; ducta which lead from the 

kidneys to the bladder, 
CalUus . . A hard bony substance or growth. 
Capsicum. .Cayenne pepper. 
Catarrh. .Flow of mucus. 
Cathartic. . An active purgative. 
Caihtter . . Tube for emptying the bladder. 
Carminative. .An aromatic medicioe. 
Caustic. .A corroding or destroying substance, as nitrate of 

silver, potash, &c. 
Citric Avid. .Acid made from lemons. 
Chronic. .Of long standing. 

Collapse . . A recession of the blood from the surface. 
Coma . . Stupor. 
Constipation . . Costiveftess. 
Contagious . .A di.soase which may be given to another by 

contact. 
Counter. .To work against, as counter-irritant, Spanish-flics, 

draughts to the feet, ke. 
Congestion. .Accumulation of blood in a part, unduly. 
ConvalescPTire . . rmprovement in health. 
Cuticle. .The outer or first por-.Jon of the skin, which con- 
sists of three coat,«. 
Datura Stramonium . .Stink-w-ccd, jimpson, &c. 
Diaphoretics. .Medicines which aid or produce perspiration* 
Decoction. .To prepare by boiling. 
Dentrifice. .A preparation to cleanse the teeth. 
Defecation . . To pass the feces, to go to stool. 
Dentition . . Act or process of cutting teeth. 
Desiccation . .To dry, act of drying. 
Denudcent. .Mucilaginous, as flax-seed and gum arabio. 
Dermoid. .Resembling, or relating to the skin. 
Z^efen/cn^s. .Cleansing medicines, as laxatives and purgft* 

tives. 
Diagnosis. .To discriminate disease. 
Diaphragm . . Midriff". 
Diarrhea . . Looseness of the bowels. 
Digest . . Assimilation or conversion of food into chyme — to 

prepare medicines with continued, gentle heat. 



869 Du. chase's recipes. 

Discutient . . A medicine which will scatter or •/.;« mtu^ 

tumors. 
Diuretio. .That which increases the amount of urine. 
Diluted. . Reduced with water, as dilute alcohol, naif alcohol 

and half water. 

Digitalis . . Fox-glove, a narcotic. 

Dorsal. . Having reference to the back. 

Douche. .A dash, or stream upon any part. 

Drachm. .Sixty grains, a tea-spoonful, or a tea-spoon of 

Dulcamara. .The bitter-sweet, or woody nightshade. 

Dyapepaia . .Difficult digestion. 

Di/sphonia . . Difficulty in speaking. 

Di/suria. . Difficult or painful urination. 

/i'aif. . Water. 

Eau de Cologne. .Cologne water. 

Ebulitinn. .To boil. 

Eclattic . . To choose. 

Eclectic Physician. .Oac who professes to be liberal Ia 
views, independent of party, and who fa-or 
progress and reform in medicine. 

Effervesce. .To foam. 

Eflorescence. .Redness of the general surface. 
Effete. .Worn out, waste matter. 

Elaterium. .Fruit of the wild cucumber, a hydragogue. 
Electuary — Medicine prepared at the consistence of honey. 
Elixir. .A tincture prepared with more than one articlo. 
Emesis . . The .act of vomiting. 
Emetic . . Medicines which produce emesis, vomiting. 
Ehnnienagogue . .A medicine which will aid or bring on the 
menses. 

J?nu)/?iew<s. .SofteniBf^ and screening medicines, slippery* 

elm bark, flax-seed, gums, &c. 
Emulsion . . Mucilage, from the emolients. 
Enema. . An injection by the rectum. 
f^nnui. . Lassitude, dullness of spirit, disgustof condition, &o. 
Epi. . Above, or over. 
Epidermis . . Outer skin 

J^igastrinm. . Region of the pit of the stomach. 
Epilepsy . . Convulsion fits, with loss of sense for tne me^ 

foaming at the mouth, and stupor. 



QLOSSARTAL DEPARTMENT 867 

EpigtottiA .TrAp-door cartilage at the root of th« tongne, 

preventing food, or fluid, from entering the 

wind-pipe. 
Epistaxis. .Nose bleed. 
Eryot.. S^nrred rye. 

Euctation. .Raising wind from the stomach, belching. 
Ernption . . Pimples or blotches on tho skin, or pustules 

from small-pox. 
Eschar' — A slough on the surface. 
Efcharotic . . That which will destroy the flesh. 
Essential. . Having reference to essences made from essen 

tial oils and alcohol. 
£thvr..A volatile fluid. 
Eiherial Oil. .Volatile oil. 
Eustachiart. Tube . . A tube leading from the side of the 

throat to the internal ear. 
Eversum. .Turning inside out. 
Evacuarion. .To discharge by stool, to haste-away, [See 

the remarks in the body of the work, on " Cos- 

tiveness. 
Evaporcxdon . . To escape in vapor. 
Exacerbation. .Violent in'^rease in disease. 
Exanthemata . . Eruptive disease, as small-pox, scarlet fever, 

measles, &c. 
Excrement . . The feces, that which passes by stool. 
Excretion . . That which is thrown off", become useless. 
Excoriation . . Abrasion, to bruise the skin. 
Exhalents. .Vessels which throw out fluid upon the exter- 
nal or internal surface of the body. 
Eepectorants . .That wliich produces, or aids a discharge of 

mucus from the bronchial tubes, or from the 

lungs. 
Excision — To cut off an extremity 
E.ttremUtf . . Applied to the arms and legs, called upper and 

lower extremities. 
Exterpatxon . . To cut out, or to remove a part. 
Extract. .To take out, as a tooth, to extract a ball or an? 

foreign substance from a wound — an active 

principle obtained from vegetables. 
Expr««s. .To press out juices. 
Excr*9oenc«. . Aa unnatural growth 



S68 DR. CHASE'S RKCIPE*. 

fijrtravaaafmi . .A collection of blood into a oadty, or un- 
der the skin. 

Facial. . Belonging to. or having ret'ereneo to the face. 

Farina. .Meal, or flour, from vci^etables. 

^'arty. .A disease of the lymphatic vessels in the ekia jl 
■n: the flanks ol' a horse. 

Fauca. .The pharynx and back part jf the mouth. 

Fascicular. .A bundle, in bundles. 

Feces. .That which passes by stool 

Febrile. .Having reference to fevers. 

Febrifuge. .Medicines to drive away fever, producing per- 
spiration. 

Felon. .A deep abscc.«s of the Ougcr, involving the bone, be- 
cause under the periosteum, the membrant 
which cHvers tlic bone. 

Femur. .The thigh houc. 

Femoral. .Relating to the thigh. 

Ferment. .To oxidize, to effencsce, to work, as emptyings, 
beer, wine, cider, <fcc. 

Fermentation . .To sour, to decompose, both heat and moist 
ure being necessary to keep it up. 

Ferri Limatnra . . Iron-filings, very valuable in female de- 
bility, and for males of a weak habit of body. 

Ferrum. .Iron. 

Fever. .That which "Old School Physician.s" call a diseade, 
whilst another cla.s3 (the Thomsonians) say it 
is an eflFort of nature to throw off disea.se ; but 
Eclectics take it as an indication that the circu- 
lating medium is not regular, and go to work at 
once to eqiulize the circulation, by the use of 
diaphoretics, combined with tonics and deter- 
gents, which soon sets all to-rights ; for fever 
and perspiration cannot long exist together. 

Klter. .To strain through paper made lor that purpose 

Fibre.. A very small, thread-like s-^bstanee of aninwi oi 
vegetable matter. 

Fibula . . The smallest bone of the leg below the knee, 

Fintula . . An ulcer. 

Flaccid. . Flabby, soft, relaxed. 

Flabbi/. .Loose and soft to the touch. 

Flatm. .To iuiatc tke stomach or bowelt with pa. 



GLOSSARIAL DEPARTMENT. 309 

fluoric Acid.. A fluid obtained from the fluor spar out 

with sulphuric acid. 
Flatulence. . Gas iu the stomach. 
Flooding. .Vtcrme hcmoiThage. 
Fluor. .An increaised discharge, to flow 
Fluor Sjjar. .Fluoride of calcium. 
Fluor Albus . . White flow, leucoiihea, whites, &c. 
Flvtx . . To flow, diarrhea. 

Friction. .Rubbing with the dry hand, or dry coarse cloth, 
Fumijate. .To smoke a room, or any article needing to be 

cleansed. 
Fundament . .The anus. 
Formula. .Medical prescription. 
Fulminating Foicder . . An explosive preparation, used in 

fireworks. 
Function. .The particular action of an organ, as ihe function 

of the stomach, liver, lungs, heart, &c. 
Fungus. .Spoii<xy flesh in wounds, proud-flesh, a soft cancer, 

which bleeds upon touching its broken surface 
Fusion . . To fuse, to melt. 

Furor. .Very violent delirium, not accompanied by fever. 
Galhanum . . A resinous gum, from a genus of plants. 
Genus. .Family of plants, a group, all of a class, or nature. 
GaU..B\\e. 
Gall Bladder .. h. bag which receives the gall, or bile, 

through ducts, from the liver, delivering it to 

the stomach, iu health, through the duct called 

communis choledochus. 
Qall Stones. .Yldixdi biliary concretions found in the gall 

bladder, and sometimes causiBg death, from not 

being able te pass through the ductus coni» 

muuis. 
Galla. .The gall-nut, an excrescence found upon the oak. 
Gallic Acid. .An acid from the nut-gall. 
Galipot. . A glazed jar, used for putting up gummy extracta. 
Galcanv;. .Having reference to galvanism. 
Gamboge. .A drastia purgative, unless combined with aro- 

matics. 
Gar^rene. .Partial death of a part, often ending in entire 

mortification of the part, and sometimes of the 

whole body. 

. — DR. OHASfi'a RKCIPU, 



870 DR. CHASlTS RECIPES. 

Ganglion.. X knot, or lump on tendooB, ligaments, oi 
nerves. 

Gaseotu. .Having the nature of gas. 

Gastric. .Of, or belonging to the stomach. 

Gastric Juice. .Secretion- of the stomach. 

Gastritis. .Inflammation of the stomach. 

Gastrodynia . . Pain in the stomach, sometimes with spam 
of the stomach. 

Gelatine. .Isinglass. 

Gelatinous. .Like jelly. 

Genitals. .Beloiiging to generation, the sexual organs. 

Gentian . . An European root, possessing tonio properties. 

Genu . . The knee. 

Genuflexion. .Bending the knee, kneeling. 

Germ . . The vital principle, or life-spark. 

Gestation. .To be pregnant. 

Gland. .Secreting organs having ducts emptying into cavi- 
ties, which often become obstructed, causing 
them to enlarge ; hence, the enlargement of the 
thyroid gland in the neck, causing bronchoceie. 

Glans . . A p;land. 

Gleet . . Chronic gonorrhea. 

Globules . . Small round particles,jhaving special reference to 
particles of the red part of the blood. 

Olossa . The tongue ; a smooth tongue. 

Gloss. .To give a lustre; to comment; to write or mak<i ex. 
plunations. 

Glossarist . . A writer of glosses or comments. 

Glossary . . An explanation of words. 

Glossarial. .Containing explanations. 

Glossitis . . Inflammation of the tongue. 

Glottis. .The opening into the wind-pipe, at the root of the 
tongue, larynx, covered by the epiglottis. 

Gluten . . Coagulable lymph, white of an egg, a principle in 
wheat and other vegetables. 

Glutton. .One who eats excessively. 

Gonorrhea . . An infectious discharge from the genital or- 
gans. 

&oit<. .Painful inflammation of the joints of the toes, or of 
the fingers. 

Oranvle. .A small particle of healthy matter, not pua 



OLOSSARIAL DEPARTMENT. rf71 

Granulation . . Healing up of an ulcer or wound with healthy 

matter. 
Gravd. .Crystaline particles in the urine. 
Green- Sickness . .Chlorosis, debility requiring iron. 
Griping. .Grinding pain in the stomach, or bowels. 
Gutta . . One drop, drops. 
Gutta Fercha. .Dried juice of a genus of trees Isonandm 

gutta. 
Guttural. .Relating to the throat. 
Gymnasium . . A place for sportive exercise, which is very 

valuable to those who cannot or will not take 

exercise for the sake of dollars and cents. 
Gypsum. .Sulphate of lime, more commonly called plaster 

of Paris, because first introduced from that 

place. 

Habit. .Good or bad habit, constitutionally, or prejudicially 
predisposed to do some particular thing ; medi- 
cally, as consumptive habit, rheumatic habit, &o, 

Pevia . . Blood, prefixed to other words. 

Hematemesis . . Hemorrhage from the stomach 

Hematuria. .Hemorrhage from the bladder 

Hemoptysis . .Hemorrhage from the lungs. 

Hemorrhoid* . . Piles, bleeding piles. 

Henbane. .Hyoscyamus. 

Hereditary . . Disease from parents. 

Hernia. . Rupture, which permits a part of the bowel to piO« 
trude. 

Herpes . . Disease of the skin. 

Hiera Picra . . A medicine containing aloes. 

Humerus. .The single bone of the upper arm. 

Humeral. .Pertaining to the arm. 

Humx>rs. .The fluids of the body, excluding the blood, 

Hydrayogues. .Medicines which produce watery discharges 

used in dropsy, as elaterium. 
Hydiargyrum. . Metalic mercury, quicksilver, Doctors' name 

for calomel. 

Hydrocyanic Acid. .Prussic acid, nothing more poisonou«. 

Hydrofluoric Acid. .Same as fluoric acid. 

Hygea. .Heakh. 

Hjfgixne. .Pieseiving health by diet and other precautions. 



*872 DR. chase's RKCIPEfe 

Hypo. .Signifies low, a low state of health, more annoying 
to the sufferers than to their friends, who are 
constaatly boring them about it ; called hysterica 
.n women, (from hysteria, the womb or uterus,) 
but blues only, when it gets hold of men; they 
come from the same cause, general debility • 
takes a strong remedy, iron, as medicine 

Ili/poglottis . . Under the tongue. 

llyittria . . The uterus, (womb,) also disuse, depending up- 
on, or caused by uterine irregularities 

IlysterUu . . Inflammation af the uterus. 

Ichor., An acrid, biting, watery discharge from ulcers, often 
corroding, eating the surface. 

Icterus. .Jaundice, a bilious disease, which shows itself by 
yellowness of the eyes and skin. 

Icterus Alius. .Chlorosis, whites, &g. 

Ignition. .To catch on fire, from Ignis, fire. 

7/i?!<« . . Cholic in the small intestines. 

Vine. .Situated near the flank. 

Iliac Region . , Sidtjs of the abdomen between the ribs aod 
the thighs. 

Imbecile. .One of weak mind, imbecility. 

Imbibe. .To absorb, to drink. 

Imbricate. .To over-lap, as tiles on a house 

Immerse . . To plunge under water. 

Immobile. .Immovable, as stiff joints. 

Imperforate. .Without a natural opening. 

Impervious . .Closed against water. 

Impetigo . . Tetter. 

Imponderable. .Not having weight, light or electricity. 

Impoverished, .Exhausted vitality. 

Impotence . . Sterility, not being able to produce 

Impregnation . . The act of producing. 

Hicision . . To cut. 

Incombustible. .Incapability of being burned. 

Incompatibles . .Medicines which ought not to be mixed, On 
given together. 

InconUnence. .^oi being able to hold the natural cxcro- 
tions. 

Incorporate. .To mix medicines together. 

Incubation. .To hat<jh eggs, slow development of disease 

Indication. .That which shows what ou^jbt to be doB<> 



GLO.SSARIAL DKl'AIiTMENT 373 

hidigenous . . Peculiarity of a country, or of a small secti«B 
of country, applied to disease, plants, &c. 

fudu/estion . . Dyspepsia. 

buioletU . , Slow in progress, applied to ulcers and tumors^ 
which are slow and with but little or no pain. 

Juduration. .Hardening of any part of tno system by dis- 
ease. 

(n/ectious . . Communicable disease, from one to another. 

r»i/iVmrtry. .Where medicines are distributed gratuitously 
to the poor ; but more recently some physicians 
have got to calling their offices infirmaries 

(njiammation . . Attended with heat, redness, swelling, ten- 
derness, and often with throbbing. 

(njlatus , .To distend, to blow up with wind, or to fill up 
with gas, as the stomach, bowels, &c. 

fnjluenza. .A disease affecting the nostrils, throat, &c., of 
a catarrhal nature. 

Infusion. .Medicines prepared by steeping in water, not to 
boil. 

Tnquinal. .In the groin. 

hqredient. .One article of a compound mixture. 

Inhalation. .To dra-w in the breath. 

Injection. .Any preparation to be introduced by the rectum 

Inorganic. .Matter not having Jjrgans, all alike, as metals. 

Insanity . . Derangement of the mind. 

Insertion . .Tha attachment of muscles and tendons to tho 
bones, which they move by contraction. 

Insfnratio7i. .The act of drawing in the breath. 

Insjrissatioii. .To thicken by boiling, to make what is called 
the concentrated extracts, desiccation. 

fnstinct.. An involuntary action, as closing the eyelids, 
breathing, &e., natural perception ol animals. 

Tnteyiiment . .A covering, the skin. 

Inier. .A prefix denoting between. 

Intercostal . .Hetween the ribs. 

Intermission . . Time between paroxysms of fever, or other 
disease. 

Intermittent Fever. .Fever which comes on at regular peri- 
ods, between which periods there is little, and 
sometimes no fever, an interval. 

internal. . Upon the inside. 

Interosseous. .Between the bones. 
— tm. <SHAM9'9 BjKnrss. 



574 DR. chase's recipes. 

Interval. .The period between the paroxysms cf periodKal 
diseases, as ague, &c. 

intestines. .The contents of the abdomen. 

Intestinal Ctnia/. .Embracing the duodenum (the first di 
vision below the stomach,) the jejunum, (the 
the second division of the small intestines,) the 
ileum, (the third and longest portion of the 
small intestines,) the secum, (the first portion 
of the large intestine,) the colon, (the large in- 
testine,) and the rectum, (the lower trap-door.) 

Intolerance . .In medicine, applied to tneeye, as intolerance 
of lightj to the stomach, as intolerance of food. 

Inversio Uteri. . Inversion of the uterus. 

Inversion. .To turn the inside out. 

/rrwiMci&fe .. Applied to hernia, and to joints which have 
been put out and cannot be put back to thoii 
place. 

Ischuria. .Not being able to pass the urine. 

/ss«e .. Sore made as a counter-irritant, to draw irritatioa 

from a diseased part. 
Itch. .Psora, scabies, a catching eruption of the skin. 
Itis. .An addition to a word denoting inflammation, as plea 

ritis, pleurisy, &c. 
horij Black . . Animal charcoal. 
Jaundice. . A disease caused by the inactivity of the liver 

or ducts leading from i-t. 
Jelly . .Gelatine in a fluid state, as applied to medicine. 
Jesuits Bark. . First name ef Peruvian bark, from its having 

been discover<nl bv Jesuit missionaries. 
Juglar. .Applied to veins of the th-roat. 
Jujube.. An East India fruit, something like a plun, lUtid 

in coughs, but of doubtful reputation. 
Kali. » Potash. 
Kelp . . Ashes of sea- weed. 
Knot. .Surgeons tie their knot hv passing the threaJ <ai*ai 

through the loop, which prevents sUppin}^. 

Labia . . Lips. 

Italia Pudendi. .Lips, or sides of the vulva. 
Labial. .Of, or belonging to the lips. 
Labor. .Child-birth; parturition. 



OLOSSARIAL DEPARTMENT. 875 

Laboratory .. A place of chemical experiments, or opera- 
tions, 8«e Frontispiece. 

Laitcinating . .Sharp, piercing, as lancinating pain. 

Larynyeal. .Oi' the larynx. 

Lari/nx . . The upper part of the throat. 

Larj/tif/if is . .la^SLUxmatiou of the throat. 

Latent. .Hidden, as latent heat, see the remarks connected 
with .steam boiler explosion. 

f.assituJe . . Weakness, a feeling of stupor. 

Laxative. .A very gentle cathartic. 

Leptaiuirin. .Powder made from the leptaudria Tirginica, 
blackroot, Culvers physic. 

Leucorrhea . . Fluor aibus, whites, chlorosis, &c. 

Leoiijate. .To reduce to a very fine powder. 

Liyature. .A thread, to 1-igate, to tie with a ligature 

Loeated. .Fixed, seated u-pon some organ. 

Lingua . .The tongue. 

Linguist. .A speaker, fluency, one who understands differ- 
ent languages. 

Liniment. .A fluid preparation to be applied by friction. 

Lithontriptic . . A medicine reported to dissolve gravel, or 
stone in the bladder. 

Lithotomy . . The operation of cutting, to take out stone of 
the bladder. 

Liver. .The largest gland, and largest organ of the body. 

Livid. .A dark colored spot on the surface. 

Loins . . Lower part of the back. 

Lotion . . A preparation to wash a sore. 

Lubricate. .To soften with oil, or to moisten with a fluid. 
The internal organs are covered with a mem- 
brane which throws out a lubricating fluid, en- 
abling them to move easily upon each other. 

iMte. .A past© with which to close chemical retorts, the ca- 
sein, curd of milk, is used for that purpose. 

Z^m^A. .A thin colorless flu-id carried in small vein-like 
vessels called lymphatics. 

Macerate . . To steep, soften by soaking. 

Mai. .Bad, mal practice, bad practice, not according to sci- 
ence. 

Malformation. .Irregular, unnatural formation. 

Malaria. .Bud gases, causing disease, supposed to arise froai 
decaying vegetable matter. 



876 DR. CHASJi's RECIPE8 

Maliynaru..h. Destilential, and geuerallj dangerous dis 
case, as the Cholera of 1882. 

Mamma . .Tlie female breast, which is compoecd of glands 
that secrete the milk, upon the principle that 
the liver secretes bile ; each organ for its spe- 
cilio purpose; but secreting organs, or glauda 
are the more liable to get obstructed, thus pro 
ducing disea.se. 

Alaatication . .'ih.Q act of chewing. 

Maslurbation. .Excitement, by the hand, of the genital or- 
gans. The most injurious, health-destroying, 
soul-debjising, ol all evils introduced into th« 
world; because lU frequent repetition draw^ 
very heavily upoL \he nervous system, prostra- 
ting the energies, acstroying the memory, to- 
gether with the lii'i-principle, as well as th» 
principles of muialitN which ought to goveru 
every human bciug, .letween himself and hia 
Cieator. 

Maturiti/ . .To become ripe, to an ive at adult age, beyond 
funhor growth. 

Materia. .Matter, healthy suDstanofc. 

Materia Medica. .'£he science of xaedicine, and medical 
combinations. 

Maturation. .Formaiiou of pus, unhv«ftitUy matter. 

Matrix. .The womb. 

Meconium. .The first pAAii-uts after birih. 

Medical. .Relating to mfcaKine. 

Medicated. .Having mediciao in its piCparation. 

Membrane. .A thin lining, or coveiing, skin-like, as the 
poritoueuHi, whie-h lines ihb cavity of the bow- 
els and covers the intestinoa; and tho perios- 
teum, membrane, which concm the bones, &e 

Medicament. .A remedy ; hence, niedieahientum, the Welch 
remedy for every disease. 

Medicinal. .Having medical pro^rties. , 

Medullary. .Lite marrow, brain-Uka. 

Mel. .Honey. 

Menstruation. .Monthly flow. 

Mentha Piperita. .Peppermint. 

Median , . The middle. 



aiiUbSARIXL DKPARTMKNX. S77 

AleUiflmm. .Flowing with honey, sweetness, delicious; akio 
to luciouH, juicy mellowness. 

Jmionluit/ia . .Excessive floodiug. 

MUturitiou . . To urinate, to pxs<s the uriile. 

MUhriferi/ . .Art of asnisting at child-birth. 

^1/(/u'ot .. About one drop, one-sixtieth of a fluid drachm 

Minimum. .Th« smallest, the smallest dose, the oppcsite 3/ 
maximum. 

Modus Operandi. .The way in which medicines act, ap].li- 
cable also to any action, the way of doing it. 

Murhid. . Unhealthy. 

Morbus . . A disease ; hence, cholera morbus, disease of the 
bowels. 

Mordant . . That which fastens the colors in dyeing, as alum, 
cream of tartar, argal, vitriols, tin, liquor, &c. 

Mucus . . Animal mucilage. 

Mucus Membrane . . See reuiarks under the head of " Inflam- 
mation," in the body of the work. 

Mucilaye. .A watery solution of gum, or elm bark, &c. 

Muriatic. .Having reference to sea suit. 

Muriatic Acid . .Marine acid, often called hydrochloric acid. 

Muscle. .A bundle of fibers. 

Mtiscuhir. .Having reference to the muscles, strong built 

Mj/rrh . . A resinous gum. 

N'arcotic. .Stupefying medicines,. producing sleep. 

tiares . . The nostrils. 

Nasal. . Of the nose. 

Nav^ea. .Sickness of the stomach, may increase until vom- 
iting takes place, or it may not. 

Naicseant. .That which produces nausea. 

Navel. .Center of the abdomen. 

Necros. .Death. 

Necrosis. .Death of a bone. 

Nephros. .The kidney. 

Nephritis . . Inflammation of the kidney or kidneys. 

Nervous. .Easily excited. ^ 

Nervine . . That which will allay, or loothe nervous excite- 
ment. 

Neuralgia. .Pain in nerves. 

Nitre. .Saltpeter. 

Nocturnal . .Occurrin^j ia the ni'rhi. 



tt$ DR. CHASES RECIPES. 

Nitrate. . . Nitric acid combined with alkalies or alkaline 

salts. 
Normal. .In a natural and health condition. 
Nostrum. .A medical preparation. 
Noihus. .Spurious, illegitimate, a bastard. 
Nudus . . Nude, without clothing. 
Nutrition . . Nourishment. 
Nutritious . . Nourishing. 
Obesity . . Corpulence, exces.s of fat, or flesh. 
Obstetrics. .The science of midwifery. 
Ochre . . An ore ot iron. 
Oculus. .The eye. 
Oculist . . An eye-doctor. 
Oleaginous. .An oily substance. 

Omentum. .The caul, peritoneal covering of the inteatino*. 
Opacity . . To obstruct light. 

Opaque. .Not transparent, inability to see t'uiough ic. 
Opfhalmos. .The eye. 

Opthalmia . .DisesLfie of the eye, iuflamiAdti'/O ot tiid eye. 
Opiate. .An anodyne. 
Organ . . A part of the body, which lias a ccr<*iii W\>f' jC Uj 

perform, called the function of ot^^ddi, faj di* 

stomach, lungs, womb, &c. 

Organic. .Bodies made up of org&ua. 
Organism. .Vital organization. 
Organized. .Furnished with life. 
Orgcum. .The closing excitement of fsexual coBoeotioBi 
Origin. .The point of commencement. 
Orifice. .An opening. 
Os Tince . . Mouth of the womb, or uterus. 
Osseous . . A bony substance. 

Ossification. .To become bone; from est, or OitAO, » 
or like a bone. 

Ostalgia. .Pain in a bone. 

Osteoma. .Tumor, like bone. 

Ostitis . . Inflammation of a bone or boDM. 

Otic . . Haring reference to the ear. 

Otitis. .Inflammation of the ear. 

Otorrhea . . Discharge from the ear. 

Ova . . An egg, made up of little eggs "^ ' 



ULOSSAJRIAL DEPARTMENT. 879 

(hraria. .Testes; most generally applied to the female ; fo- 
male testes, two egg-shaped bodies, (made up 
of little particles, or eggs,) having an attach- 
ment to the uterus in the broad ligaments, 
which support that organ, having tubes, oi 
ducts, opening from them into the uterus, 
called Fallopian tubes, from the man's name 
who first gave a description of them. One of 
these particles is thrown off at each menstrual 
flow. 
Oviparous . .Birds, or any animals that produce their young 

from eggs, or by eggs. 
Ovum . . An egg. 

Oxahc Acid. . An acid found in sorrel, very poisonous. 

Oxide. .A combination of oxygen with a metal, or fluid, as 

oxygen combining with vinegar-fluid, forms 

vinegar, oxygen combining with iron, form* 

oxide of iron, rust of iron, kc. 

Oxygen. .One of the elements of the air, an acidifv'ug 

(souring) principle, and an element (a particl . 

or part ) of water. I 

OxymeL.A preparation of vinegar and honey, from mftl,| 

honey. 
Ozena. .Feted ulcer of the nose, or fetid discharge from 
the nose. 

Pabulum . . Food j aliment. 

J^ad. .A cushion. 

Palliative. .To aflford relief, only. 

Palpitation. .Unhealthy, or unnatural beating of the heart. 

Pan . . As a prefix, means all. 

Panacea, .llemedy for all diseases, consequently (speaking 
ironically) any patent medicine. 

Paralysis. .Loss of motion, numbpalsy. 

Partus. .Labor ; the young when brought forth. 

Parturition. .Child-birth. 

Paroxysm. .A fit of disease occurring at certain period*. 

Poriodical. .Occurring at a certain time. 

Petal. .A flour leaf, as rose leaves, &c. 

/•^^Am* . . A wastinp, consumption. 

Pathos . . A disease. 

Patholtfjy. .The do* trine of di.sease. 



88U BR. chask's recipes. 

I*e(toral. Pertaining to the breast. 

P^dUuviuin .A loot-bnth. 

Pendukmn. .To hang down 

Peni». .The male organ of generation. 

Pcpsina A. |)ecuUar substance in the stomach, -fhich aids di 

gCftiifm. 
Pfptie. .Digestive; hence, dyspeptic, not digesting. 
Percolation. .To run, or dmw through some substance, straining 
Premonitory.. 1o give a previous notice, as premonitory S3'mp 

toms. 
Ptru, .Around, a covering. 

Pericardium. .Around the heart, sac containing the heart. 
Pericarditvi. .Inflammation of the pericardium. 
Perin..A testicle, male organs, con-esponding with testes, in 

females, with this difference, however, that with 

males they are upon the outside, whilst with females 

they are upon the inside of the body. 
Perineum. .That part between the anus and organs of generation 

or genitals. 
Perineal. .Relating to the region of the perineum. 
Period. .A certain time. 
PeritHliciiy . .Returning at a certain time. 
Periosteum. .The membrane which covers all bones. 
Per^pccti'ce View. .As it appears to the eye at a certain distance 
J'erturbation . . To disturb. 
Perversion. .An unhealthy change; to change from its proper or 

natural course. 
Pesmry. .That which will support, or hold up the womb, in pro- 
lapsus ; see our remarks on " Female Debility." 
Phagedenic. .An eating and fast-spreading ulcer. 
PhaiiTuiey. .The art ol combining and preparing medicines. 
Phlegm. .Mucus from the bronchial tubes, and throat. 
Phlogistic. .Tendency to inflammation. 
Phosphoi-us . .An iutlammable and luminous substance, prepared 

from urine and bones. 
P/io«pAafe. .Phosphoric acid in combination with metals, as 

phosphate of iron, phosphate of lime, &c. 
Piles. .Tumors at, or in the anus ; sometimes protruding; often 

attended with hemorrhage, then called hemorrhoids. 
Piperine. .A pr«paration from black pepper, considered valuable 

in ague. 
^lacenta. .After-birth, which has a connection to the womb, and 

to the child, during pregnancy; but ia naturally 

thrown off by the violent contractions of the womb, 

at this i>eriod, there being no further use for it Oh. 

the wisdom of our Creator, how glorious to contem- 

l^late! Everj'tliiug adapted to the necessititis of the case 

Plet?iar a. .Ovar fullness; if healthy, causing obeBity, corpj 

lance. 
Plearitis. .Inflammation of the pleura, pleurisy 
Pneuuion. .TJU? kings. 



dLOSSARTAL DEPARTivi art T. 881 

Pleura.. The serous membrane covering the lungs, and folded 
upou the sides. 

Pnevmonia. .Inflamniatiou of tlie lungs. 

Podophyllm. .A po'w dor made from the podophyllum peltaUim, 
mandrake root. 

Pomum. .The ai)j)lc; heme, ju^raac.e, masbed apple. 

Potiiasium. .The basis ol" i)ota8h. 

Potui. .A driulc ; hence, potion, a medicated driuk. 

P^ediitpotition. . .A tendency to a certain disease. 

J'regnancy. .Being with child. 

Piognom. .The art of guessing how a disease will ternunate. 

Piijlupius. .A falliag 

ProMpsus Ani. .FaUing of the anus. 

Prooapsus Uten. .Falling of the uterus. 

Proseration. .Without strength. 

PniHsiate. .A compound with prussic acid. 

PruMc .4c«3i. .ilydrocyanic acid; one of, or the most viruleirt 
poison in existence. 

iV)r&. .The itch. 

Pubei .The prominence at the lower front part of the Lodiy. 

Pubertj/. .Full srov;ih; an adult; perfection 

Pubic. .Having reference to the retjion of the pubes. 

Fudtndum. .'the female organs ol generation. • 

l^ier. .A boy, or child. 

Puerpei-a. .A woman who has just brought forth a child; hence, 
puerperal fever, fever at, or soon after child birth. 

Pulmo. .A lun^. 

Pulmoniiis. .Inflammation of the lung or lungs. 

Pwiwona?-^. .Relating to the lungs, as pulmonary balsam, pul- 
monic wafers, &c. 

Pulvis. .A powder ; hence, pulverize, to make fine. All thes^ 
words show how heavily we have drawn upon other 
languages, for our own, consequently, the necessity 
of studying the Latin and Greek, to properly under- 
stand ours. 

Pupii. .The dark circle in tltc eye. 

Puryati'ce. .A gentle cathartic. 

Pui. .Unhealthy matter. 

Pubiule. .A slight elevation, having pus. 

PutreJ'action. .To decompose, by fermentation. 

Putnd. .Rotton; decomposed. 

Pyroligncoun Acid. .An acid obtained from wood; the essence of 
smoke ; if a little of it is put into a barrel with meat 
in the brine, it smokes it without trouble. I think 

§ill to the barrel sufficient, perhaps a little less will 
o. It is obtained by inserting an old gun-barrel or 
other iron tube into a coal-pit, near the bottom, whgg 
burning; it condenses in the tube and drops from w 
outer end into a di.sh, then bottled for use. 
Quama. .A bitter Ionic ; the chips of the wood are used. 
Machis..Th&imi* 



882 DR. chase's recipes. 

JtacJiitis. .Rickets, bending of the spine, and sometimes the long 
bones of the limbs ; may be also enlargement of th« 
head, bowels, and the ends of the long bones 

Jtadius. .The bone of the upper arm. 

Iliidial. .Having reference to the upper aim. 

Radiated. .Diverging from a centre. 

RiuUx. .A root. 

Ramiia. .A branch. 

Ramification. .To branch out. 

Rancidity. .Kancid, stale; applied to oil, fat, butter, &c. 

Ra»h. .A redness of the skic, in patches. 

Ratabane. .Arscuious acid, arsenic. 

Rattle. .Noise of air passing through mucua, as in croup. 

Reaction. .To return, after recession. 

Recession. .Striking in, tiic blood, or disease, going to the intei 
nal organs. 

Rectum. .The lower portion of the intestines. 

Reduction. .To set a fniclure, or to return a hernia. 

Refrigerant. .A cooling medicine, or drink. 

Regimen. .Regulation of diet and habits, to preserve health, or 
to cure disease. 

.BeZap«6. .Recurrence of disease after an improved appearance, 
which is generally worse than the lirst attack. 

Relaxation. .Losing tlie healthy tone of any part, or the whole 

BV'BtOm. 

Repletion. .Fullness. 

Reproduction. .Generation, procreation 

Respiration. .To breathe, including both mspiration and expira 
tion. 

Resolution. .To return to health, applied to inflammations. 

Retching. .An effort to vomit. 

Retention. .Delay of the natural passage of the urine or feces. 

Revulsion. .To ciraw away disease, as draughts, or blistera, irri- 
tating plasters, &c. 

i2/t«U7na/i:»;n. .Inflammation of the fibrous tissue, mostly cod> 
fined to the large joints. 

Rfcini Oleum. .Gastor oil. 

Rigor. .Coldness, with shivering. 

Roclielle Salts. .A mixture of tartarate of potash and soda. 

RubefacienU. .Medicines which cause redness of tlie skin, as mus- 
tard, raddish leaves, &c. 

Rupture. .Hernia ; by some, called a breach. 

iiaciharine . .The properties of sugar. 

&i.'im. The secretion of the mouth, spittle; henoe, salivation, 
an increased flow of saliva. 

Salt. .A compound of acid with an alkali, or metal. 

Saltpetre. .Nitrate of potash. 

Salubrioui. .Climate favorable to health. 

Sujtative. .A curative medicine. 

Sanguis. .Blood. 



QLOSSARIAL DEPARTMSNT. 383 

Sanguinious. .Bloody — SangnineouB discharge, as bloody-flux 

Santonin. .A powder obtained from worm-seed. 

Sarcoma. .A fleshy tumor, generally of a cancerous nature 

Scaites. .The itch. 

tMrrhus. .A hard tumor, generally of a cancerous nature. 

Scrofula. .A constitutional tendency to disease of the glands 

Scrotum. .The sac which encloses the testicles. 

Sedative. .To depress, the opposite of stimulation. 

SeidUtz. .A village of Bohemia ; hence, seidlitz powders, which 
originated at that place. 

Sinapis. .Mustard; hflnce, sinapisms, mustard plasters. 

Slough . . Death of a part, allowing it to come out from the healthy 
part. 

Stimulant. .A medicine calculated to to excite an increased and 
healthy action. 

Styptic. .To stop bleeding. 

Snake-Boot. . Common or Virginia snake-root ; but black snake- 
root is the black-cohosh. 

Spasm. .Cramp, or convulsion. 

Specific. .A remedy having a uniform action, producing health 

Sperm. .Seminal fluid, now more often called the semen, seed. 

S})ermatic. .Having reference to the testicles, or ovaries. 

I^na. .The back-bone; hence, spine. 

Stitch. .A spasmodic pain. 

Stoma. .The mouth. 

Stomatitis. .Inflammation of the mouth. 

Strangulation . .To choke; also applied to hernia which cannot 

be reduced. 
Sudor. .Sweat; hence, sudorific, to sweat. 
Sulphate. .A combination with sulphuric acid. 
Sulphuric Acid. .Oil of vitriol. 
Suppr6»sion. .An arrest of a natural discharge. 
S>cppuration . . To produce ])U3. 
SympaOiy. .To be afl"eeted by the disease of another orgaa, u 

sick- headache from overloading the stomach. 
Symptom. .A sign of disease. 
Syncope. .To swoon, fainting. 
Sypk&i». .Disease from sexual connection with those who ha've 

venerial disease. 
Tannic Acid. .An acid from oak bark, an astringent. 
Tartaric Acid. .An achl from cream of tartar, found in grapes. 
Temsmus. .Difficulty and pain at stool, with a desire to go to 

stool olten. 
Tent. .A roU of lint or cloth to keep wounds open until they 

heal from the bottom. 
Testes. .Testicles. 
lVierapeutic4 . .Relating to a knowledge of treating disease, the 

curative action of medicine. 
TJi/>raz. .The chest. 
Tibta. .The l&r-gQ booe of the lower leg 



894 DR. CRASR's nscipss. 

Tonsih. .Glands on each side of the throat. 

Traefuia. 'I'hc windpipe. 

Translation . . Disease going to some other organ. 

Triturate. .To rub into a powder. 

Tumor. .An enlargement of a portion, usually of the external 

parts. 
Ulna . . Small, or under bone of the arm. 
UtnbiliCHH .The naval. 

Ureter. .Duct leading from the kidney to the bladder. 
Urethra . . Duct leading out from the bladder. 
Uterus. .The womb. 

Vagina. .The passage from the womb to the vulva. , 

Venery. .Sexual incmlgence. 

Vermtfuge. .Having the property to destroy worms. .i, 

Virus. .Contagious poison. ' 

Vulva. .External opening of the female genitals. .\ 

Wliites . . Fluor albus 
Yeast . . The principle of fermentat'on 
Zinci Sulphas. .Sulphate of Zinc, white vitriol. 



it^" Laws op Coptrigrt.— The exclusive benefits of Copy- 
rights extend to Twenty-Eight Years— then renewable for 
Fourteen Years, if the Author is dead, to the Heirs, by re re- 
cording and Advertising the re-record for four weeks in any 
Newspaper in the United States. 

The forfeiture of all the books, and a penalU-Jof Fifty Cents 
I in each Sheet, (16 pages), in the work, half to the United 
States, and half to the Author, is the penalty for Publishing 
or Importing any work Without the written Consent of the 
Author; and the Printer is equally liable with the Publisher. 

Entries can be made in any District Court of the United 
States. The laws are found in Vol. 4, of the United States 
Statutes, pages 436—439. The Clerk is entitled to a Fee of 
Fifty Cents ; and also Ffty Cents for each Copy of the Re- 
cord, under Seal of the O^ce, that may be desired. 



153 
187 



University of Caiifornia 

SOUTHERN REGIONAL LIBRARY FACILITY 

405 Hilgard Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90024-1388 

Return this material to the library 

from which) it was borrowed. 



TH^ ^" lARY 






A 000 579 319 



,if.t ^ ; 



*" . • 



.-. 4^;-^ 



