>i3^^:3i It ^ 

.-5>^^ >2^:9i22> _>S2>53>2 
^^^^ ^3)i>j» „_>.^»2>>3 


















>5 TV" 









3^ :^ 



l» ^ 


xr J 


i» : 


yrx 


^ ' 


r>_ 


> ■> 


> - 


> 3 


T J 


» > 


.- J 


^^:> > 


► :> 


■> ). 


ir» >; 


'j>^ 


.> >-f 


v.> .. 















i LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. I 






n I UNITED STATES OP AMERICA, f 
























^ •>'::> ::» ^^..■ 






>::»>D;s>:j»0)i^ [^ 









w>y>3:^>y'^. 

































- .■ V»>J> . 















-. .-»> ■^"' ^^ ^^ ' 






x/harrison's 
FLAVORING EXTRACTS: 



PURE, FRESH AND STRONG. 



THE BEST XKT THE "WOKXili. 





FOR SALE BY 





HARRISON'S 

PARIAN WHITE, 

For tlie Complexion. 





There is no department of the art of perfumery which requires 
greater care find skill, and a more conscientious avoidance of 
hurtful and poisonous ingredients, than that of preparing cosme- 
tics and applications for whitening and beautifying the skin. 
I have adopted, as a rule of action in every department of my bus- 
iness, to use no deleterious or hurtful materials whatever ; none 
but perfectly harmless and innocent ingredients enter into the 
composition of my preparations. 

The unrivalled powder bearing the above name, has been in 
use in the best families of America, over 17 years, and has out- 
lived scores of worthless and inferior imitations. It communi- 
cates to the complexion the delicate and beautiful tone, so highly 
admired in the ancient Parian Marble, of which the master- 
pieces of antique sculpture were executed. It is at once harmless 
and natural, perfectly harmonizing with the features, and giving, 
by contrast, great brilliancy to the eyes and hair. Put up. in 
elegant gilt boxes of 2 ounces each. 

Sent by mail, post-paid, on receipt of 75 cents. 

A. W. HARIIIS02T, Agent, Philadelphia. 



"^^^ 






y^/J^ 



J^^'^^z 




^ FLAVORING EXTRACTS. 



18 VAKIETIES. 



ALMOND, 


LEMON, 


PEACH, 


CELERY, 


NECTARINE, 


PINE APPLE, 


CINNAMON. 


NUTMEG, 


RASPBERRY. 


CLOVES, 


ORANGE. 


ROSE, 


GINGER, 


ORANGE FLOWER, 


STRAWBERR 



VANILLA, 
AMBER AND CARMINE FOR COLORING. 



# 





A. W. HAERISON, 

No. 15 NORTH NINTH STREET, 

PHILADELPHIA. 



Euteied according to Act of Congress, in the year 1870, by A. W. HARRISON, in 
the Clerk's Office of the U. S. District Court, for the East. Dist. of Pennsylvania. 




HARRISON'S FLAVORING EXTRACTS. y^^\ \ 
The following list gives some of the various uses to irliich (hey are applied. 

Almond.— Blanc Mange, Cakes, Cliarlotte Russe, Custards, Frostiugs, 
Fruit Salads and Compotes, Ice Creams, Jams, Marmalades, Jellies, 
Puddings, Pies, Stewed and Canned Fruits and Sweetmeats. 

Celery.— Broth, Catsup, Fisli Sauces, Fricassees, Gravies, Meat Stews 
and Sauces, Meat Pies, Mushrooms, Omelets, Salads of Chicken and 
Lobster, Soups, StuPings. 

Cinnamoa,— Blanc Mange, Buns, Cakes, Confectionery, Custards, 
Frostings, Fruits Stewed and Canned, Ice Cream, Jams, Jellies, Pud- 
dings, Pies, Sauces. 

Cloves.— Broth, Cakes, Catsup, Croquettes, CurrJes, Forced Meat, 
Mince Pies, Oyster Stews, Pickled Oysters, Sauces, Soups, Stuffings, 
and Spiced Meats. 

Ginger.- Apple Sauce and Apple Butter, Cakes, Custards. Ginger- 
bread and Snaps, Jellies, Mince and Apple Pies, Puddings and Pud- 
ding Sauces, Stewed Fruits, Syrups and Sweetmeats. 

Lemon.— Apple Charlotte, Blanc Mango, Buns, Cakes, Cheesecake, 
Confectionery, Custards, Croquettes ol Rice, Frosting, Fruit Sauces, 
Ice Cream, Jams, Jellies, Lemonade and Syrup, Marmalade, PudJings, 
Pies, Sauces, Stewed and Canned Fruits, Sweetmeats. Water Ice. 

Nectarine.— Blanc Mange, Cakes, Charlotte Uusse, Custards, Frost- 
ings, Fruit Salad and Compotes, Ice Creams, Jams, Jellies, Marmal- 
ade, Puddings, Pies, Stewed and Canned Fruits, Soufflees, 

Nutmeg.— Apple Siuce and Jam, Blanc Mange, Buns, Cakes, Char- 
lottes, Custards, Croquettes of Rice and Macaroni, Frostings, Fruits 
Stewed and Canned, Fruit and Mince Pies, Jams. Jellies, Lemonade, 
Marmalade, Puddings, Sauces and Sweetmeats. 

Orange — Clauc Mange, Buns, Cakes, Confectionery, Compote, Cus- 
tards, Croquettes, Frosting, Ice Cream, Jams, Jellies, Marmalade, 
Orangeade and Syrup, Pies, Puddings and Pudding Sauces. 

Peacli.— Blanc Mange, Cakes, Charlotte Russe, Cu.stards, Frostings, 
Fruit Salads and Compotes, Ice Creams, Jams, Jellies, Marmalade, 
Puddings, Pies, Stewed and Canned Fruits and Sweetmeats. 

Rose-— Blanc Mange, Buns, Cakes, Confectionery, Custards, Char- 
lottes, Croquettes of Rice, Frosting, Fruit Sauces, Ice Cream, Jams, 
Jellies, Marmalade, Pies, Puddings, Rose Water, Sauces, Stewed 
Fruits, Syrups. 

Vanilla.— Blanc Mange, Buns, Cakes, Confectionery, Charlottes, 
Custards, Croquettes of Rice, Frosting, Fruit Sauces, Ice Cream, Jams 
Jellies. Marmalade, Pies, Puddings, Sauces, Stewed Fruits, Syrups, 
Soufflees. 

Oracge Flower, Pineapple, Raspberry and Strawberry are used for 
all the purposes to which Vani.la and I-emou are applied. 

Carmine and Amber are used to color Jellies, Ice Cream, &c., Red 
and Yellow. 




S 






,; 


#"4 




1 <^ 


1 ^ 


4 # 



TO HOUSEKEEPERS. 

Within the past few years great advances have been made iu 
the preparation of all materials and substances used in cooking, 
or in seas(;Ding food. One department, however, has not re- 
ceived the degree of attention which its daily increasing impor- 
tance demands : it is that of the manufacture of Extracts for 
Flavoring, which are, generally, so poorly and cheaply prepared, ' 
as to be quite inferior in quality to the crude spices and fruits 
formerly employed, although far more convenient in use. 

My Extracts combine, in the highest degree, the principles of 
piiriiT/ of material, and concentration of form in their composi- 
tion. The very small quantity required to communicate a delicious 
flavor to any article of food, prevents the alcoholic taste imparted 
by inferior extracts, as the spirit all evaporates in the process of 
cooking. For the same reasons these Extracts are far cheaper 
than others, most of which require, according to their printed 
instructions, one teaspoonful to the pint^ whereas the same 
quantity of my Extracts flavors abundantly one quart. 



m, 







HARRISON'S FLAVORING EXTRACTS. 
Adulterations. 

It is important that the consumer should learn to appreciate the 
difference between a pure and an adulterated Extract for Flavor- 
ing, and to detect the genuine from the spurious article. On ac- 
count of the high cost of' the pure Mexican Vaailla Bean, there 
is no Extract used in cookery tliat is so much adulterated as that 
of Vanilla. The most common article employed for this purpose 
is the Tonka Bean, formerly used in scenting snuff; it somewhat re- 
sembles the Vanilla in smelli but its taste is coarse and disagreea- 
ble. It is frequently mixed with weak Vanilla Extract, to which 
it imparts a strong odor that deceives the inexperienced. Burnt 
Sugar and Licorice are also quite commonly used to deepen the 
color of this Extract, and even the most celebrated Extracts 
made in this country, are more or less sweetened with sugar. A 
low priced article, called Bourbon Bean, is also often used, but it 
is quite inferior in flavor and unfit for making fine Extracts. 
Harrison's Extract ofVanilla is strictly pure, — it contains no 
extraneous coloring or flavoring matterwh.itever,— nothing but 
the fresh, rich flavor, in a concentrated form, of the finest Mexican 
Vanilla Bean. A single trial will entirely convince any person of 
refined taste of its superiority to all others. 

Extract of Lemon is often adulterated with Citric Acid, which 
makes it more pungent, and causes milk to curdle. 

Extract of Rose, which should be made of pure Otto, worth 
half its weight in gold, is very generally cheapened by using Oil 
of Geranium in its composition. The dearer the material, the 
greater the temptation, to dishonest makers, to adulterate their 
preparations. It is the duty of every honorable manufacturer to 
denounce and expose all such frauds upon the public. 

Select Receipts. 

It is the object of this pamphlet to present, not a long list of 
common-place recipes such as can be found in all books on 
cookery, but a few choice ones not readily obtained oi common- 3^' 
ly known. The following valuable receipts have been thorough- 
ly tested by the Writer, and are worthy of trial by every good- 
housekeeper. 







'^^ 




/^5*^ 



HARRISON'S FLAVORING EXTRACTS. 



[^ 



General Directions for Use. 

To One Qoart of the foo.l a.kl One teaspoonful of Extract 
and mix thoroughly. If cooked by boiling, add just before the 
boiling is finished ; if by bakiag, add when first mixed. 

Freuch Ice Cream. 

Put the yolks of eight eggs in a stew pan with three quarters 
of a pound of pulverized white sugar, and beat well together with 
a wooden spoon. In another stew-pan, put a quart of milk, heat 
to boiling, remove from the fire, cover, and, when partly cold, 
pour it over the eggs and sugar, mix well, and return to the fire. 
Add one table-spoonful of Flavoring Extract, either of Almond, 
Lemon, Nectarine, Orange Flower, Orange, Peach, Pineapple, 
Raspberry, Rose, Strawberry or Vanilla, and stir well till it thick- 
ens and adheres to the spoon, but do not let it curdle. Pass it 
through a fine strainer, and set aside to cool. Then put the free- 
zer in the centre of the ice pail, which should be eiglit inches 
greater in diameter than the freezer ; surround it with ice pound- 
ed fine, put in layers six inches deep, alternately with one inch 
of coarse dairy salt, well beaten down, and repeated till within 
three inches of the top of the Freezer. A good kind is the "Five 
Minute Freezer," worked by a crank and cogwheels, with revol- 
ving dashers. Turn the crank briskly and constantly till the 
cream is about half frozen ; add one quart of pure cream, and 
c()nlii;uc the operation till the whole mass is hard and smooth. 
Draw off the water, add more ice and salt, cover the pail with 
heavy woolen cloths, and set aside for two hours, to harden be- 
foie serving. Pineapple, Raspberry and Strawberry Ice Cream 
should be colored, the first with a few drops of Extract of Am- 
ber, the two latter with Carmine. 

Philadelphia Ice Cream. 

Boil a quart of rich cream, add one teaspoonful of any of the 
following Extracts ; Almond, Lemon, Nectarine, Orange, Peach, 
Rose, Orange Flower, Pineapple, Raspberry, Strawberry or 
Yauilla,— stir for a minute 'and set*aside till cold. Stir in half a 
pound of fine pulverized white sugar, mix thoroughly, strain 

throuizh a fine sieve and freeze as directed above. 

jv 



i 







HARRISON'S FLAVORING EXTRACTS. 




Iced Cabinet Pudding. 

This is usually made by confectioners in oval tin moulds, about 
4 inches long and 2 deep, Avith a tight fitting cover. For family 
use, one mould about 9 inches long, 6 wide and 4 deep, is prefer- 
able. Cut some stale sponge cake in slices about half an inch 
thick, and of the same shape as, but rather smaller than the mould, 
and soak them well in dilute Extract of Nectarine ; fresh t^iaca- 
roons are also excellent for the purpose Lay some dried cherries, 
currants or seedless raisins, sliced citron and chopped almonds on 
the bottom of the mould, then a slice of cake, and alternate the 
fruit and cake until the mould is half full Make a soft custard, 
of one pint of milk, the yolks of two eggs, a quarter of a pound 
of sugar, and half a teaspoonful each of Extract of Cinnamon and 
Nutmeg, and shiimer over the fire till it thickens but not curdles; 
when lukewarm, fill the moulds with it, cover them tiirhtly, and 
bury in ice and salt for at least two hours. Then dip the mould 
in lukewarm water, and turn out on a dish. It should l>e quite 
firm ; if not, boil it down more on the next trial. Serve witJi cream ^ 
or a soft custard, flavored with Extract of Orange, Rose or Va- 
nilla, or the following : mix well the yolk of two eggs, and two 
ounces of sugar, stir in half a pint of milk, put in a tinned sauce- 
pan on the fire, stir constantly, add half a teaspoonful of Extract 
of Vanilla, boil up once, remove and cool. 

Charlotte Busse. 

Dissolve one ounce of Nelsyn's Gplatin in halfa pint of water, 
sijiimer ti'U redivced thcee-quacters in bulk, and strain. To three 
gijls of milk adjd one Jtablespoonfiil of white sugav, and boil slowly 
fifteen minutes ; slightly bgat the yolks (if fo.ur eggs, ajid as soon as 
the milk is«ool enough not to cook them, stii" carefully in ; add 
two teasipoonsful ©f Extract o.f Ne.ctarine, stir till thick (ii must / 
OB- no accourU boil)t, then pass througli a siefe. Cover the sides 
and bottom of the moulds, ("the same as used for Iced Cabinet 
Pudding), with thin sponge cake, cut in two, putting the crust 
side outward, and neatly fittacl so a« to fill tlie nioulds. Beat up 
ji pinJt of cream witli the milk and gelatin, tiU liglit and spongy, fill 
the mc iJd, cover, and keep in a,pail of salt ami i^e for three hours. 




w. 




^ 





HARRISON'S FLAVORING EXTRACTS. 



^**-7 




Chicken Salad. 

Mix one heaping teaspoonful of pure mustard, the yolk of a 
fresh egg, and a tablespoonful of pure white wine or cider vinegar, 
into a smooth paste, using a silver fork for the purpose. Mea- 
sure out twelve lablespoonsful of pure salad oil and one table- 
spoonful each of vinegar and lemon juice ; mix the two latter 
together and strain them. Add to the egg very slowly, while stir- 
ring constantly, two table-spoonsful of the oil, and when it thick- 
ens, one teaspoonful of the mixed vinegar, and thus continue al- 
ternately with the oil and vinegar, stirring unceasingly, till all is 
mixed, and a thick, smooth creamy paste is obtained. H ive ready 
a cold, boiled fowl, remove the skin bones and fat, and cut the 
lean flesh into pieces, the size of large dice ; cut into morsels an 
equal bulk of white, tender, crisp celery, and mix with the meat, 
a saltspoonful of salt, a pinch of red pepper, and one-half the 
dressing Cover the bottom of an oval platter with the white 
centre leaves of well blanched lettuce, and lay tbe inner green 
loaves around the border ; place the salad upon them, and pour ^ 
over it the remainder of the dressing. Garnish willi a few sprigs 
of parsley, olives, capers, and slices of hard boiled e<^g'i, neatly 
iuranged around the border. If celery cannot be had, use white 
cabbage, mixed with half a teaspoonful of Extract of Celery. 

Lobster Salad. 

Select live lobsters, whose flesh, as seen through the thin 
membrane on the under side of the body, is briglit pink in color. 
Put them in cold water well salted, and boil for twenty minutes, 
tlien take out and drain. When cold, remove all the flesh, re- 
jecting the blue vein along the back, and cut it into small pieces 
like dice. Mash all the white and green fat and red coral into a 
fine paste, with a little salt, a few drops of Extract of Celery, and 
a pinch of cayenne pepper. Cover a flat oval dish with the white, 
crisp, centre leaves of lettuce, placing the greener ones around 
the border. Mix lightly the flesh and fat, spread it over the let- ^^ 
tuce, except the border, pour over it the dressing for Chicken 
Salad, and garnish with olives, capers and sprigs of parsley. 
Four pounds of lobster will serve six persons. 







CM: 




^^M^r:p-^i^ 



HARRISON'S FLAVORING EXTRACTS 




S^ce. 



Chicken Croquettes. 

There is no dish so highly prized, for evening parties, cold col- 
lations, or "dejeuners a la fourchette," as a plate of Chicken 
Croquettes. 

Boil one medium sized chicken in as little water as possible, 
till tender ; then boil the broth down to a cupful, wliich will be 
a jelly when cold. Chop the meat,— rejecting the ■&\iX\\,—as fi'ie 
as 2'>''ssible, with 2 ounces of lean liam, 2 teaspoonfuls of chopped 
parsley, the juice and grated rind of a lemon, and half a teaspoon - 
ful each of powdered mace, salt, mustard, and white pepper. 
Boil, separately, one cup of bread and milk, and one s- weet-bread 
till tender. Chop fine half a shallot or small onion, fry it with 
two ounces of butter, ad a tablospooaful of flour, stir half a mi- 
nute, add the chopped meat, broth, b::.,ad and milk, and sweet- 
bread, stir two minutes and take off the fire ; add the yolks of 
two raw eggs, mi.x; well and spread on a dish to cool. Butter a 
flat-bottomed wineglass, shake in some cracker dust, and form 
the Croquettes in it, like a small sugar-loaf; dip into beaten egg, 
roll in cracker dust and fry gently in very hot lard. Serve on a 
napkin with sprigs of parsley. 

Lobster Croquettes. 

They are truly delicious, made as abovf', — omitting the sweet- 
bread, and using, instead, the green and white fat and reel coral, 
finely mashed together. 

Rice Croquettes. 

Put in a stewpan half a pound of rice, a pint and a half of 
milk, a quarter of a pound of butter, stir until boiling, put over a 
fcliiw fire, cover, and simmer till quite tender. Mix well the yolks 
of five eggs, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a teaspoonful of 
Extract of Lemon, and add to the rice, stirring till the eggs thick- 
en, but do not let them boil ; laythe rice on a dish, and, when 
cold, form into balls, or otiier shape, not larger than a small 
apple. Dip the Croquettes into beaten eggs, roll in cracker dust, 
'^- and fry in very hot lard, a nice light yellow color ; drain, and 
serve on a napkin, with powdered sugar sifted over them. 





A:i.^fe 



HARRISd^'S FLAVORING EXTRACTS 




Omelet for Breakfast. 

A delicious dish, easDy made, yet rarely seen of good quality. 
The omelet pan should be of tinned copper or thin wrought iron, 
kept always perfectly bright, and used for no other purpose. 

Beat six large, or eight medium sized eggs, with a saltspoon- 
ful of salt, one tablespoonful of fresh thick cream, and a table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, in a bowl, with a silver fork or egg- 
beater, until the white and yolk are thoroughly mixed, but no 
more ; they must by no means he frothy. 

Melt in the omelet-pan quickly, over a very bright fire, a piece 
of butter the size of an egg, and as free from salt as possible ; A'ery 
salt butter burns easily, and causes the eggs to stick to the pan. 
The moment it is melted, pour in the eggs, stir rapidly and 
scrape up from the bottom as fast as cooked ; then, toliile the mass 
is yet soft, put the spoon under tlie right edge and fold the omelet 
rapidly over to the left side, in the form of a turnover pie. Have 
ready a warm oval omelet plate, reverse it over the pan, let stand 
a moment to set, then pressing the plate firmly on the pan, turn 
the omelet over with a quick motion, out of the pan on the plate, 
and serve at once. The crust of the omelet should bo cooked 
just enough to keep the soft central mass in shape. If hard all 
through, it will be spongj', tough and unpalateable. Three min- 
utes suffice to cook it properly. 

Several varieties can be made by substituting for the chopped 
parsley any of the following : chopped boiled ham, asparagus 
stewed in butter or cream and chopped, spinach ditto, grated 
cheese, stewed kidneys, mushrooms, or lobsters chopped fine, and 
any kind oi boiled fish, cold, in small morsels. 

Parboiled or Blanched Oysters, dropped in just before 
turning the eggs, make a delicious omelet. 

Chocolate. 

This should never be boiled. Scrape very fine into a stone- 
ware pitcher the quantity required for use, moisten slightly with 
boiling water, and let stand on the stove ten minutes ; then stir 
and beat well until it is a smooth mass, and mix boiling milk, 
flavored with Extract of Vanilla, gradually with it, whisking it 
, briskly, w ith a chocolate stirrer, till done. 







HAERISON'S FLAVORING EXTRACTS. 
Sweet Omelet for Dessert 

Prepare like the former, omitf.ng the Parsley, and adding 
a half teaspoonful of Extract of Vanilla, Orange Flower, Rose, 
or other, to the taste. Just before folding the eggs, drop in two 
or three tablespoonsful of any kind of preserves, peaches, quinces, 
plums, cherries, crab apples, strawberries, and the like, then fold 
and turn out as directed. Sprinkle with powdered white sugar, 
have ready a red hot poker, and hold it close to, but not touching 
the sugar, and quickly brown it in stripes, like a gridiron. Cover 
and serve hot. Omelets should never be set aside to keep, but 
must be eaten immediately. 

Blanc Mange. 

To one quart of milk add one ounce of Nelson's Gelatin, a 
quarter of a pouud of sugar, one teaspoonful of Extract either of 
Almond, Cinnamon, Lemon, Nutmeg, Orange Flower, or Nec- 
tarine, simmer over a slow fire, stirring till the Gelatin is entirely 
dissolved, pass it through a napkin, stir till it begins to thicken, 
and pour into a mould, previously dipped in cold water ; then 
set in a cool place to harden. Serve with cream or a soft custard 
flavored with Extract of Vanilla, or with the sauce given for Iced 
Cabinet Pudding. 

Currant Jelly. 

The pure natural flavor and rich color of the fruit is preserved 
by this method only. 

Pick the ripe fruit from the stems, put it into a stone jar, set in 
a pot of cold -water over a slow fire, boil and stir till well bruised 
to a pulp. Strain, without squeezing, tlirough a. fine flannel bag, 
into a porcelain-lined kettle, boil and skini till no more scum 
rises. Add one pound of finest white sugar for every pint of 
juice, boil up once only, skim, remove from the fire, stir briskly 
till the sugar is all dissolved, and pour into glasses, first warmed 
to prevent breakage. When cold, if not thick enough, set in the '^ 
sun a few days. Then lay letter paper on the jelly, paste paper "* 
covers on the glasses, and keep in a cool, dark closet. TJie re- 
maining pulp,cooked with sugar,makes an excellent Currant Jam. 




k 



HARRISON'S FLAVORING EXTRACTS. 






Sponge Cake 

Take 5 fresh eggs, pulverized white sugar the weight of 5 eggs, 
flour the w^eight of 3 eggs. Beat the yolks and sugar to a creamy 
paste ; beat the whites to a stiff froth, mix with the yolks and 
sugar, sift in the flour gradualbj, add a teaspoonful of Extract 
of Nectarine, Almond or Orange Flower, and stir only just enough 
to mix well. Pour immediately into pans lined with buttered 
paper, 1 inch deep, or into a buttered cake mould; sprinkle a 
little pulverized sugar on it, and bake in a quick oven, 25 to 30 
minutes. If too hot, cover with paper to prevent scorching. 
Try with a splinter ; if no dough adheres the cake is done. 

Cream Sponge Cake. 

Make like the above, omitting to sprinkle the sugar on it, and 
pour into square flat pans to the depth of less than half an inch, 
and bake as directed. Have ready a mock cream, made as fol- 
lows: mix well, in a bright saucepan, two ounces of white sugar 
and two eggs, stir slowly in ounce of flour, then add one pint of 
boiled milk, and when smoothly mixed, put on the fire stir well 
fill rather thick, remove, flavor Avith a few drops of Extract of 
Nectarine, and let cool. Spread it on the bottom of the cake 
while yet warm, then cut the cake in two and fold the bottoms 
together, marking two layers of the cake with a layer of cream 
between them. Mix well half a pound o^ finely pulverized whiter- 
sugar, with one tablespoonful of cream or of orange or lemon 
juice, and one tablespoonful of boiling water, and a few drops of 
Extract of Lemon or Orange, and, while still warm, spread on 
the cake, before it cools, about an eighth of an inch thick. 

Jelly Sponge Cake. 

Make and bake like the last. Spread on the bottom of the 
cake a thin layer of currant jelly or any other fruit jelly or jam, 
roll it over, while still warm, into one long roll, cover with a 
cloth, and when cold, cut crosswise in slices, about half an inch 
thick. 






HARRISON'S FLAVORING EXTRACTS. 
White Mountain Cake. 

Beat two cofiFee cupsful of pulveriffed white sugar and one of 
butter into a smooth cream ; beat the yolks of four eggs and add 
to it, then beat the whiles until light and foamy and mix in ; 
next sift in two cups of flour and mix all well but lightly together. 
Dissolve one teaspoonful of soda in one cup of milk, and then 
two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, rapidly, and mix quickly 
with the above. Next sift in two more cupsful of flour, and a 
dessertspoonful of Extract of Vanilla, Rose, Almond, Orange 
Flower or Nectarine, mix all quickly, pour into round pans, to 
the depth of half an inch, and bake. Beat up the whites of four 
eggs into a •nery stiff cream, and stir in, little by little , seven 
ounces oi pulverized sugar. Spread a layer of this cream on a 
sheet of the cake, place another sheet of cake upon it, another 
layer of cream, and a third sheet of cake, and lastly sprinkle on 
the top a heavy coating of pulverized white sugar. 

Washington Cake is made as above, substituting currant 
jelly or other fruit, jelly or jam for the cream in layers. 

Lemon Butter. 

A delicious sauce for buckwheat cakes, waffles, muffins, &c. 

Beat into a smooth cream one quarter pound of melted butter 
and one pound of pulverized sugar. Beat the yolks of six and 
the whites of four eggs with the strained juice of three, and the 
finely grated thin outer rind of two lemons into a flue paste, and 
mix all well. Put into an enamelled or tinned saucepan and boil 
twenty minutes, stirring well to prevent scorching. 

Orange Botter is made in the same manner. 

Meringue Cream Pie. 

Bake a bottom crutt of fine pastry, and when cold fill with 
mock cream, as follows : beat well together five eggs, five ounces 
white sugar, and then one ounce of corn starch, and stir it into 
one quart of boiling milk, and when quite thick remove and cool. 
Lastly, cover the whole with a layer of the cream used for White 
Mountain Cake, and set the pie in a hot oven for half a minute 
or less, to give it a delicate buff color. 



\^<o^ 



^^^4 




HARRISON'S FLAVORING EXTRACTS. 



Omelette Soufflee. 

Put a tumblerful of milk in a tinned saucepan, on the fire 
when boiling add three tablespoonsful of sifted Hour, stir rapidly 
with a wooden spoon, and when smooth, add two ounces of but- 
ter, stirring till melted ; remove from the fire, add four yolks of 
eggs, and mix thoroughly. When cold, add a little grated lemon 
peel or a few drops of Extract of Lemon, two tablespoonsful of 
sifted sugar and the whites of four eggs, beaten till quite stitfand 
stirred in very gently. Bake in a shallow pudding-dish, buttered, 
about twenty minutes, in a quick oven, taking care not to burn it. 
Sprinkle powdered sugar over it, and serve at once. If allowed 
to cool, it will fall and become heavy. It should always be baked 
during the eating of dinner. 

Rice Soufflee is made in the same manner, using rice flour 
in the place of wheat Hour, and omitting the butter. 

Boston Cream Puffs. 

Rub well together half a pound of sifted flour, one teaspoonful 
of white sugar and a quarter of a pound of butter, and put into 
one pint of boiling water, on the fire, stirring nery brixkh/ till it 
thickens like starch, then remove quickly and add gradually^ 
stirring rapidly all ihe time, eight eggs, previously well i)eaten, and 
let stand till cold ; then stir a little, and drop, by tablespoonsful, 
about six inches apart, on buttered pans, glaze with the white of 
egg, laid on with a feather, and bake in a quick oven, of a light 
brown color. When cold, cut open one side, and fill with mock 
cream, made as follows : beat two eggs to a froth, stir in half a 
teacupful of powdered sugar, then half a teacupful of flour, and 
stir all into a pint of boiling milk, and when thick remove, let 
cool, and add a few drops of Extract of Nectarine. 

Pound Cake. 

Rub, with the hand, into a smooth creamy paste, one pound 
each of butter and pulverized sugar, and add a half teaspoonful 
of Extract, either Nectarine, Rose, Almond, Nutmeg or Cinna- 
mon ; stir in, by degrees, eight well-beaten eggs and one pound 
and a quarter of sifted flour When smooth put into buttered 
or papeied pans or ninfiin rings, and bake in a moderate oven. 





HARRISON'S FLAVORING EXTRACTS. 



Oysters a la Creme. 

Put fifty large oysters with half a pint of water, in a saucepan, 
on the fire, at the first boil take them off, remove tlie scum, strain, 
and drop them in cold water, all as quickly as possible. Now drain 
on a napkin, and put them in a clean saucepan, and when hot 
stir in a gill of fresh cream, an ounce of butter, and a finely 
powdered cracker. Season with salt, white pepper, a few sprigs 
of mace and a few drops of Extract of Cloves. When scalding 
hot they are sufficiently cooked, and must be served at once. 

English Steam Puddingy. 

]\rix four teacupsful of flour and one teaspoonful of soda ; tlien 
aid one teacupful of molasses and half a teacupful of milk, and 
work into a dough ; in half a teacupful of milk dissolve two tea- 
spoonsful of crea'.u of tartar, and add half a teaspoonful eacli of 
Extract of Cloves, Cinnamon and Nutmeg. Work all well into 
the dough, and lastly add one teacupful of finely chopped beef 
suet, one of seedless raisins, and one tablespoonfuleach of citron 
and blanched almonds, chopped Put into a tight pudding ket- 
tle or mould, and boil tliree hours in a vessel of water. Serve 
with a sauce made as follows : rub together two tablespoonsful 
each of butter, sugar and flour ; stir briskly into half a pint of 
boiling milk, and when thick remove from the fire and flavor with 
a few drops of Extract of Lemon, Orange, Vanilla or Nectarine. 

Another excellent, high-flavored sauce is made by melting two 
tablespoonsful of currant jelly and three of sugar in six of water, 
adding the juice of a large orange and a few drops of Extract of 
Orange Flower, which gives it a rich flavor and perfume. 

The sauce for Iced Cabinet Pudding makes a pleasing variety. 

Cottage Pudding. 

Rub well together two teacupsful of sugar and six well-beaten 
eggs ; add two cups of flour and one teaspoonful of soda, dis- 
solved in one cup of milk, and knead the whole into dough. Add 
two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar dissolved in one cup of milk, 
and bake like English Steam Pudding, and serve with the same 
sauces, or with a soft custard, flavored with Extract of Vanilla 
[lOured over it. If desired richer, add fruit as in last recipe. 




THE HALFORD 
TABLE SAUCE, 

Unrivalled hy any relUh intended for Family 

vse : exaclly suited to all tastes and all 

conditions of people, and approved 

and recofnm ended by the best 

Families in the Country. 



May be had of any First- Class Grocer for 
only Fifty Cents per Pint Bottle. 



For sale in ary quantity to tlie Trade by 

HAIiiFORB SAUCES GO.^ 

128 Milk Street, Boston, Mass, 



PRBPAHEL ESPECIALLY FOS EXPOli^r^ION. 







IMPMOYEB EMLIIAI^'T GELATIIE, 

An economical preparation, superior to Calves' 
Feet and Isinglass , for 

JELLIES, BLANC MANGE, SOUPS, GRAVIES, &c. 

Jelly is made in a few minutes, possessing the whole of the 
nutriment without the impurities of the Calves' Feet. 



PRICE, ONE SHILLING. 

"Warranted to make one quart and a half of Jelly. 



*^*EACH GENUINE PACKET 
BEARS THE SIGNATURE OF THE PATENTEE. 



^^^v€^. 



Agents for the United States, 

MESSRS. 0. J. FELL & BROTHER. 

Philadelphia Office, 120 South Front Street. 
Baltimore '' 60 South Calvert Street. 

Chicago " 25 South Water Street. 



THIS GELATINE IS GUARANTEED SUPERIOR TO ANY 
OTHER MADE. 






'>x>'y73»iyyy> 









. >) . >VX> >X>' ^5>i>,^ ^^i-- ^^^^ ^ 









^>^' v;^*'- .>.:s>:> :>>>i». :r 


















:^..j*r?p. 



:^^^:2>^5?>^ "x.l^^l> 









:L^:ii>" 



5> :2)^J^ 



^Qi3l>>'>^> 


















'^^i>^^^^ 






jfOLM^:^:^ 






3» ' S'-^Uiia. 












-» > :a»> 















Tf>ypW 






