THE WORKS OF DR. W. W- HALL, 

The eminent pVsician.aiid pr^tjc^l fl^ti^r, and editor of," Hall's Journal 
of HeMfh^' . ^ ,* ' 

I. HEALTH BY GOOD LIllNG. 

iToJ. 12mo. $1.50. ^ 

This book is designed to show how high health can be maintained and com- 
mon diseases cured by "good liyingj" which means eating with a relish, the 
belt fopd prepared in the beat manner. 



C QJSTTElNrTS: 



Dyspepsia. 

Neural^. ' 

l^eryousneas. " 

The TTnity of pjaease. 

Air and Exercise. - ' 

food Cure. 

The Argoment. 



The Object of Eating. 
When to pat. . ' ' -; _; 
What to eat. 
How much to eat. 
Regularity in Eating. 
HoV to eat. 
Biliousness. 

\ Appendix, NoteSj etc. 

*' It is a Tolume of rare merit." -^ Montgomery (Ala.) Advertiser. 

" No recent writer on.Banitary matters has written more racily, plainly, and 
practically than Br. W. W. Hall, and his popular * Journal ' ha^ done much 
to di^ise a knowledge of the laws of health among the people." — Portland 
TVanseript. 

" It is a most sensible and excellent book, and conta^ enough wise advice 
on the subject, to do away with invalids entirely, if not with all disease." -:- 
Sprir^^ld HepiMiam. 

" There is no ^ school ' of medicine that can take exception to the wise sug- 
gestions and plain advice g^ven in this book." — Cincinnati Chronicle. 

" We have never read a book which contained so many good and practical 
suggestions oipon the subject of healCb,,, made in «uch an honest and plain 
manner." — Toledo Commercial. 

** Db. HAIiIi is no empiric. His good sense and wisdom have for years been 
spread before the ^bUc in his own Journal of Healthy and in the thoasatid 
other journals that have quoted its articles ; thousands have thus learned 
from him sbme of the simplest secrets of the art of living. Families should 
by all means have such a good, plain, and sensible book of directions by them, 
know them by heart, and follow them." — Sunday-School Times. 

n. SLEEP; OF, The Hygiene of the JVight. 

In. one volume. 12mo. $1^. 

The subjects treated embrace : sleeping with the Old ; Deadly Nature of Bad 
Air ; Pure Sleeping Booms ; Sleeping with Others ; Nursing Children at Night ; 
Tentilaling Ohambers ; Business and Sound Sleep, etc. 

III. HEALTH AND DISEASE, as affected by Con- 
stipation and its IJnmedicinal Cure. 

In one TOlnme. I2mo. $1.50. 

The book allows the preservation of health and cure of disease ; it i^sconrages 
self-medicatioa ; it incites a higher appreciation of the value of medicine in the 
hands of the educated and honorable physician,. and contains eminently valu- 
able hints for the young. 

Ajiy of the above can be obtained of booksellers throughout the country, or 
will be mailed free of cost on receipt of advertised price by the Publishers. 

HURD- & HOUGHTON, 13 Astor Place, New York 

H, O. HOUGHTON &. CO., Riverside, Cambridge, Mass 



CORNELL UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 





3 1924 090 156 088 



STANDARD BOOKS FOR lUE YOUNG. 



WONDER STORIES tOLD FOll CHltfiftki. 

By Hahs Christian Andehsen. Witb ninety-two illustrations, by V. 
P£D£iisEN and M. L. STONE, in one volume, crown 8to. Price in oloth, 
82.25. 

ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

A new edition, printed from the standard SngUsh edition. 'With eight illus- 
trations on'wood, from new designs by Thomas Nast One volume, crown 
Svo. Price in extra cloth, gilt back and sides, .$1.76. 

THE ARABIAN NIGHTS; ENTERTAINMENTS. 

A new edition revised, with Notes by the Rev. G. "E. Tovvtnsend, M. A. 
With sixteen illustrations by BoiTGHION, Dalziel, etc. One volume, 
crown Svo. Price in extra cloth, gilt bask and sides, $2.00. 

THE FABLES OF ^SOP. 

With a Life of the Author, and Croxall's Applications. Illustrated with 
one hundred and eleven engravings from original designs by S. W. HERRICK. 
One volume, 16mo. f rice in extra cloth, gilt baet and sides, $1.75. 

SANDFORD AND HERTON. 

_ By Thomas Day. Revised by Ceoii. Hartley. Eight illustrations by 
BURRICK and others. One volume, 16mo. Price in extra' cloth, gilt back, 
$1.50. 

SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON. 

Edited and revised byOEOIi. Hartley. Eight illustrations by John 
QtLBERT. One volume, 16mo. Price in extra cloth, gilt ba^k, $1.50. 



THE PARENT'S 



ASSISTANT;' 
Children. 



or, Storieis for 



By Maria EDeEWORTH. A new edition, with eight illustrations byH. 
W. Herric^. One volume, 16mo. Price in extra-cloth, gilt back, $1.50. 

EVENINGS AT HOME. 

* By Mrs. BARBAULD and Dr. AIKEN. Corrected and revised by Cecil 
Hartley. Eight illustrations. One volume, 16mo. Price in extra cloth, 
giltbaek. $1.50. ' 



THE 



THE RIVERSIDE. 

RIVERSIDE MAGAZINE FOR 
PEOPLE. 



YOUNG 



A new. brilliant, entertaining Monthly, fully illustrated. (Commenced 
January, 1867.) Terms of subscription : $2.50 per year, in adyanee; Three 
Copies, $&.50; Five Copies, $10.00; Ten Copies, $20.00, and an extra '^opy 
gratis ; Single Copies, 25 cents. 

HUBD &, HOUGHTON, 13 Astor Place, New Torfe.^ 

H. O. HOUGHTON &, CO., Riverside, Cambridge, M^ss. 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924090156088 



ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 








^-^JS-- "=-- —.'•Z': 


•i 




From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco. 1912. 





MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

CONTAININa 

PRACTICAL RECEIPTS IN COOKERY; 

BY 

MRS. SAEAH A. ELLIOTT. 

OXFORD, N. O. 

To do goodf and to commumeate^ forget not^ — HsB. xiii. 16. 



NEW YORK: 

PUBLISHED BY HUKD AND HOUGHTON. 

13 AsTOK Place. 

1870. 



115 



Entered according to Act of Oongieas, in tlie year 1870, by 

HUBD AND HOU6HTON, 

in ttie Clerk's Office of ttie District Court of the United States for the 
Southern District of New Yorlc. 



KIVERSISE, CAUBBISaE : 

BTESEOTYPXS AND PBINTXS BT 

n. V. HOnOHTON AHD OOHPANT. 



THIS, MY FIRST OFFEBINO TO THE PUBLIC, 

£s vespectfulls {nsctlbeli 

TO THE PHILANTHBOPI8T, 

GEORGE PEABODT, 

IN GBATITODE FOR HIS AID TO THE WOMEN OF THE SOUTH, 
AND FOB MENTAL AND MOKAL IMPROVEMENT. 

ENGLAND ERECTS SCOLPTDKED STONE TO ENDURE FOB AGES, BUT 

THE GOOD SEED SOWN IN THE HEARTS OF AMERICAN YOUTHS 

WILL ERECT A MONCHBNT, " IN THE BANK OF GRACIOUS 

AFFECTION," TO STAND FOR ALL TIME TO COME. 

SAEAH A. ELLIOTT. 

OZFOBS, OKiNTllLE CODHTT, NOBTH OAEOUBA. 

Sept. Wth, 1869. 



PREFACE. 



Although one may not aspire to exert a wide 
influence like such women as Hannah More, Har- 
riet Newell, or Isabella Graham, it is still true that 
there is an influence in woman, always pervading 
and powerful, and the importance of exerting it in 
every sphere of life should be deeply impressed 
upon her mind. The change of times in the South 
indicates to woman there a solemn duty. In the 
discharge of *t she must look to God to sustain her. 
Her influence at home and abroad over her own 
sex, and through the various circles of human life, 
makes it a duty to call into action the power of the 
mind, and lay every resource under contribution. 
Woman exerts a vast influence upon society as well 
as in the ordinary scenes of life, and to her is 
intrusted a moral power that hardly knows a limit. 
The mother exerts an influence that years will 
never dislodge, though the child may be far removed 



Vi PREFACE. 

f5poin her. The wife can exert it over her husband 
for good ; to her the instruction of children, the 
regulation of the domestic, and the entire manage 
ment of the household are committed, and her do- 
minion should be in her family circle. Feeling the 
extent of that influence, that ought to be written on 
every female heart, I have prepared a work, origi- 
nal in its ideas and novel in this progressive age. 

I have not aimed at great attainments in science 
or Hterature, but with a view of accomplishing some 
good in the household, I offer these receipts for 
cooking. When the care of all that appertains to 
the interest of him woman vows to love, honor, 
and obey, is commited to her charge, she will not 
find that anything adds more to the consummation 
of his perfect and complete happiness, than a well 
regulated, systematic management of his household 
affairs. 

Two years ago I heard an address delivered by 
Dr. Leroy M. Lee, whose talent is too well known 
to require an elaborate encomium from my pen. 
Upon a friendship formed in early years (that dif- 
ference in church doctrine has never lessened) I re- 
quested the following selection, to give it circula- 
tion in the " Housewife." " Our young ladies 
need a chemistry, that understands the merit of 
soap, knows how to make it, and hves to use it ; 



PKEFAOE. vii 

that, appreciating good bread as a cardinal yirtue 
of personal comfort and family happiness, studies 
the hidden qualities and mysterious workings of 
yeast, the art of kneading, and of first and second 
rising, and of baking; and preserves quiet, and 
promotes good humor, by daily deliverances of 
rolls,' biscuit, and bread, and ' veritable hot cakes,' 
that rest on their plates as graceful and light as 
foam on the sea; that extracts stains and stings 
from the heart ; that disintegrates the ' rocks of 
offense ' in domestic life ; that displaces the ' stones 
of stumbling ' from the manners and characters of 
the household ; that analyzes the contents of the fam- 
ily purse and consults the thermometer of prudence 
for the temperature of home economy ; that gathers 
and groups the elements and aiBnities of the family 
into a compound of order, harmony, and love ; that 
distills from sorrow and trouble a precious perfume 
and balm for wounded spirits; that crystalhzes 
the tears of the household into precious jewels of 
grace and loveliness ; and transmutes the family 
circle into a crystal palace, peerless in beauty, grace- 
ful in its proportions, and glorious in its furnishings 
for personal comfort and social happiness. Such I 
desire my feeble effort to teach ; and when with this 
she can add painting with artistic taste and skill, and 
with artless coloring, upon the sacred substance of 



viii PREFACE. 

her own soul, portraits of Faith, Hope, and Charity ; 
pictorial representations of the power of ' the world 
to come,' as a power in her own heart, and, espe- 
cially, in the world of her own life ; landscape views 
of heavenly life in the home circle, its tranquil pleas- 
ures, its diligence in sowing good seed in gentle 
and stony hearts, its joyous harvest songs, its silver 
fringed clouds, and its ever-shining light, stream- 
ing down on hill and valley, forest and fountain, 
from the Great Father of Lights through the Sun 
of righteousness and peace ; embroidering her 
heart and home life with soft, delicate, and many- 
colored threads of patient toil and loving care ; 
filling up the texture of daily Hfe with flowers 
of beauty in words of kindness and deeds of 
of love ; making even common duties to take the 
form and order of holy employments ; and work- 
ing into all the habits of the household, and of 
her own thoughts, feelings, and actions, the order, 
regularity and beauty of ' wrought needlework of 
scarlet and fine linen ; ' clothing herself with ' the 
garment of salvation,' and wearing on all occasions, 
as the most precious and priceless of all garniture, 
the white robes of purity and peace, gemmed and 
crowned with ' the ornament of a meek and quiet 
spirit ; ' and music, child of the skies, light, life, and 
love vocalized ; music, whether scientific or natural, 



PREFACE. iX 

vocal or instrumental, secular or sacred, anyhow, 
anywliere, always a power and always in place, 
when the heart's in tune — the soul singing is ' the 
soul of song ; ' music, a charm and a power, of 
which God gave the use, but of which too often 
and too generally the devil has the control and 
application; music, not a fashionable accomplish- 
ment of fashionable hours for fashion's sake, but an 
embellishment of personal character, a graceful ex- 
pression of the otherwise inexpressible sentiments 
and feelings of the soul, as, in its gladness and 
hope, it stretches up to catch and reecho the de- 
scending strains of the singing angels, making 
heaven and eartli vocal with their jubilee song of 
' Glory to God in the highest, peace on earth and 
good will to man. 

" Music, sweet music, while working and at rest ; 
in the pantry, in the chamber, in the parlor ; over 
the cradle of infanoy, and by the couch of the dy- 
ing ; in the closet of secret prayer ; in the devo- 
tions of family worship, in the assemblies of God's 
people on the holy day in the holy place, singing 
not, in the absurd notion, as a part of worship, but 
as worship itself; singing out of and up to the real- 
ized sense of personal religious life, whose source 
is heaven, and whose inspiration is love ; ' singing 
with grace ' and ' making melodv in the heart unto 



X PREFACE. 

the Lord,' fulfilling, in experience and expression, 
the prescript of the Apostles, ' Let the word of 
Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom ; teaching 
and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns 
and spiritual songs ; singing with grace in your 
hearts to the Lord,' — a kind of music this, not as 
fashionable as it deserves to be, but yet ennobling 
and transforming, first learned amidst earthly toils 
and cares, and then, and forever to be sung as the 
new song of heaven. With these deportment, com- 
prising not, as its sum total of character and object, 
the easy mannerisms of polite and fashionable so- 
ciety, but the gentle outflowings, in home life and 
daily duty, of true womanly excellence, in personal 
goodness and social usefulness ; a character, self- 
reliant, and sustained, not by pride of wealth and 
station, or the gay trappings of costly adorning, but 
by the power of an inward life of grace and truth, 
seen in gentleness and purity of conduct, and in 
modesty, simplicity, and economy of apparel; and 
felt in earnest efforts to multiply home comforts, 
and lessen household expenses ; a dignity of honor 
and honesty that declines all acquaintance with 
' hilU of the store ' and loves ' Pay as you go ' 
or refuses to go at all ; and that is brave-hearted 
enough not to ' eat the bread of idleness ' nor to 
waste the energies of the intellectual and moral 



PREFACE. XI 

nature in the reading of novels, and the pursuit of 
the deceptive and pernicious frivohties of a life of 
pleasure ; in shortj a deportment involving a grade 
of character resting on goodness, governed by duty, 
and guided by religion, that refines the feelings and 
gives the charms of grace and dignity to the con- 
duct ; and that realizes in personal experience and 
social approval the fiiU measure of the inspired 
sentiment and assurance, ' Favor is deceitful and 
beauty is vain ; but a woman that feareth the Lord, 
she shall be praised.' Yes, praised by all who 
have sense enough to discern and appreciate true 
excellence of character ; and to discriminate be- 
tween the substantial virtues of the queen bee in 
the orderly management of the home hive. With 
such instructions, may not the result be a vision of 
brightness and beauty bursting upon the mind, and 
growing with ever expanding glory before the im- 
agination ; our land blooming with the freshness 
and fragrance of a garden ; homes of peace and 
plenty multiplying on every hand ; busy hands and 
happy hearts filling all the places of life with con- 
tentment and joy ; the sad past be forgotten, and 
Time and Providence healing the wounds and effac-' 
ing their scars. The living present is the good time 
to come ; come with its heart fiill of love, and its 
hands full of blessings ; and the future is, to faith 



Xll PKEFACE. 

and hope, as gorgeous as.a saint's vision of the holy 
city, descending from God out of heaven. 

" In that good time coming, and to be hastened 
by the busy hands and blessed agency of educated 
and holy women, daughters of the South, ye who 
heed these instructions, will occupy a prominent 
and honorable position of labor and love. May 
it happily be exclaimed, 'many daughters have 
done virtuously ; but thou excellest them alV " 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. xiii 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

About twenty drops of any thin liquid will fill a 
common size teaspoon. 

Four tablespoonfuls, or half a gill, will fill a com- 
mon wine-glass. 

Four wine-glasses will fill a half pint, a common 
tumbler, or a large coffee cup. 

A quart black bottle holds in reality about a pint 
and a half. 

Ten hen eggs weigh one pound before they are 
broken. 

A tablespoonful of salt is generally about one 
ounce. 

One pound of butter is one quart. 

One pound of flour is one quart. 

One pound of loaf- sugar is one quart. 

One pound and two ounces of Indian meal are 
one quart. 

One pound and two ounces of brown sugar is 
one quart. 

One pound and one ounce of powdered sugar 
are one quart. 



CONTEl!fTS. 



Faox 

Pbeliminaby 1 

Soups . . 10 

Fish 22 

Meats 45 

POBLTET 64 

Cured Meats, etc 81 

Vegetables 96 

Drinks, 112 

Bread . • • 117 

Eggs and Buttee 150 

Yeast 155 

Puddings and Pastet 163 

Pickles and Sauces 212 

Cake 236 

Prbsbeves 276 

ice-ceeam . . . • 289 

Fruits and Cordials 304 

Miscellaneous 317 

Case of the Sick 327 

For the Sick 329 



MES. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



PRELIMINARY. 

FIRST DIRECTION. 

The first direction I offer is to have every con- 
venience in your kitchen your means will allow, to 
prepare each meal expeditiously. If you use a 
stove, see that your wood is cut the right length, 
so the door will shut tight, and kept near at hand ; 
have your holders in place to remove tlie covers ; 
put on your tea-kettle filled with water, and as the 
fire burns, that will heat and be in readiness to 
scald your pans. Have a shelf on the right hand 
of the stove and a table near it ; have nails or pegs 
on the edge of the shelf to hang towels, wash-rags, 
and mops on, and a dish with soap on the shelf. 
Have a standing rule that there must be soap 
kept in it, and the articles for use hung up imme- 
diately after being used, to avoid a search when in 
haste to take up the meals or prevent overcooking. 
Have a drawer in the table in which to keep the 
knives and forks, cake-turners, and spoons which 
you require in cooking, and on the table a piece of 
sheet iron or tin to set the hot pans or stove-covers 
1 



2 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

on. If you have no closet in your kitchen, have a 
large tin safe or a cupboard to keep your cooking 
utensils in, and have them always cleaned after being 
used, and put in their respective places — iron ware 
on lower shelves, pans and moulds on the upper. 
You will find not only economy of time by attend- 
ing to these rules, but a great saving in their use. 
Nothing is more calculated to ruffle the temper 
than having to wait for an article to be cleaned we 
are in a hurry to use, particularly if unexpected 
company requires an addition to the meal. Have a 
standing order for water to be always in the kettle 
during cooking hours, for there is constant need of 
it, not only for proper cleanliness, but to add to 
soups or other boiled dishes. In addition to the 
utensils usually sent with a stove, have a porcelain 
kettle for custards, preserving and pickling oysters, 
a porcelain saucepan for boiling rice, milk, and 
little delicacies for the sick, tin and earthen pans 
for puddings, and shallow plates for pies. If there 
is no steamer to fit the top of the dinner-pot, have 
one made of tin, to cook your Irish potatoes in, and 
one to fit the large tin boiler, with a fish slice in it 
to boil rock-fish or sheep's-head. 

The same rules apply to a range, but those who 
are not so fortunate as to have either stove or 
range, will have to be guided by different ones, in 
the open fire-place, with the Dutch oven to bake 
in, spider to fry in, broiling irons to broil on, and a 
crane in the chimney to hang pots and kettles on. 
In our good old days, how well I remember see- 



PROVIDING FOR THE TABLE. 3 

ing a large ham, from the well-filled smoke-house, 
nicely washed and put in a large dinner-pot of cold 
water, and hung on the crane, to be swung back 
over a hot hickory fire, cracking and burning to 
prepare coals for the numerous dishes to be cooked 
on the wide hearth in front ; and when the ham 
was partly done, cabbages quartered and dumplings 
of corn meal made up with the " pot liquor " were 
thrown in to have the rich flavor of the ham im- 
parted to them ; then smaller pots on the crane, 
with soup of some kind, corn or bouillon beef, 
vegetables of every variety as they were to be 
cooked, and before this hot fire a turkey and pig 
hung up to be roasted (or placed in a tin kitchen 
made for that purpose) ; Dutch ovens filled with 
chicken and oyster pies, baking in large pans ; spi- 
ders with chickens frying and ducks baking; fish 
boiling and fish stewing ; and at the same time a 
rich English plum-pudding boiling, to take its place 
at the head of dessert, prepared the day before, of 
orange, lemon, citron, and cocoa-nut puddings, 
jellies, trifles, syllabubs, blancmange, ice-cream, 
and fruits to tempt the palate of invited guests ; 
and though stoves and ranges are more convenient, 
yet they can never equal the good old flre-place, 
when managed by one of our well skilled Southern 
cooks. 

PROVIDING FOE THE TABLE. 

Providing for the table should be guided by the 
means that you can honestly command. Within 



4 MRS. ELLIOTT S HOUSEWIFE. 

the reach of all there is a style in which the mil- 
lionaire's wife in her gilded walls cannot surpass 
the wife of the peasant in her humble dome. It is, 
that the prominent feature of her table should be 
cleanliness, with a tasteful arrangement of the dishes 
bearing the savory meats to tempt the appetite. 

The snow-white cover, damask or home-made (or 
the clean white table with those unable to enjoy 
the luxuries of life), speaks the character of the 
housewife. With her pure white china or ware, 
polished from hot water and soap, her castors bright 
and well-filled, her knives and forks shining, the 
napkin folded tastily in the crystal goblet and the 
salt-cellar with fine sifted salt by each plate, the 
nicely printed butter with bright spoons lying by, 
her husband is not afraid to urge a friend to par- 
take of his frugal meal. " Knowing her household 
is clothed with scarlet," he is sure the repast will 
be made sweet by the influence of her smile, when 
recommending the dishes as his favorites, and the 
absence of all apologies. 

A PLACE FOR EVERYTHING AND EVERYTHING IN 
PLACE. 

Housekeepers in the country villages or through 
the South, have not the many conveniences city 
ladies enjoy, therefore they are entitled to more 
credit for their skill. This work is prepared for 
the rising generation in the Southern States, but 
the receipts given for cooking will tempt the most 
fastidious taste. They are the result of twenty 



A PLACE FOK EVERYTHING. 5 

years experience, not only from presiding over a 
household, but as a superintendent of fairs and 
feasts for church and charitable purposes during 
that time. I acknowledge my indebtedness to Mrs. 
Randolph of Virginia and Miss Leslie of Penn- 
sylvania for many useful recipes in preparing for 
my table and feasts, and some few selections from 
their admirable works could not be resisted, to add 
to my practical experience. My first instructions 
are given to the kitchen. My second comprises 
the dining-room, pantry, smoke-house, daily-room 
and others. With the dining-room well arranged, 
white walls free from webs and specks, carpets 
swept, or floor nicely scoured, the snow-white table 
spread for a repast, will give zest to a meal, he it 
ever so frugal, that unwashed windows and a care- 
less air of a room can never invite. The old-fash- 
ioned cupboard and sideboard have given place to 
pantries attached to the dining-room that are very 
convenient. Shelves put up on the wall, with glass 
doors in front, for china and glass; net wire- work 
doors for cold food and drawers underneath for table 
linen and other articles for use ; with a table or 
wide shelf in one corner to place cup pan, soap 
dish and brush on, and hooks above to hang cup 
towel, mop, and wash-cloth. On the lower shelf, 
with glass front, arrange dishes for breakfast and tea, 
the tea-pot with strainer on the spout, coffee-pot and 
hot water kettle, basket for silver, and box for 
knives, with a waiter for salt-cellars and butter 
save-alls. Next shelf, goblets, castors, and dinner 



6 MBS. Elliott's housewife. 

dishes ; and extra glass and dishes on the upper. If 
you have no dairy-room or tin safe to keep your 
milk in, place it on lower shelf with wire front. 
These arrangements will enable you to spread or 
clear off a table with dispatch. Always have your 
knives cleaned when breakfast dishes are being 
washed, castors inspected and well filled. Keep 
a piece of silver soap or whiting near at hand, 
with woolen cloth to polish the stand and remove 
any green spot the vinegar may have made. On 
opposite corner have a hook for the broom and 
duster, and large boxes made with lids to keep meal, 
flour, and sugar, secured by a lock. I once visited 
a systematic farmer, near my home, who had a place 
for everything, and, by the influence of a good wife, 
everything was in place. The dairy-room was under 
a shady tree with a pump close at hand ; under the 
roof, back and front, a ventilator, with the milk pans 
hanging near ; an upper shelf for jars of butter, and 
lower cross shelves, with sliding doors in each end,, 
made deep and tight to hold water for the milk 
pans to be placed in. A simple trough conveyed 
the water from the pump to the deep shelf, and three 
times a day the opposite sliding door was raised, 
when cool water was pumped in, to let the other 
flow in a reservoir for the cows. After they drank, 
the stop was taken out of the bung at the side, 
water ran off, stop replaced, and when their thirst 
was again to be quenched, all was fresh and no 
stagnant water to produce disease. These hints, 
with the modern improvements, may appear stale, 



A MODEL PLACE. 7 

yet remember all parts of our vast country have 
not the improvements at hand and must be guided 
by simple rules. In a straight line with the dairy- 
room was the smoke-house, with two doors, one 
strong to secure it by night and the other latticed to 
admit the air, particularly when curing hacon. It 
was made rat-proof by brick-work around the sills 
between the sleepers, before the floor was laid ; in 
the centre a brick oven, arched over the top (with 
sides open) to prevent an accidental blaze heating 
the meat while being smoked from hickory chips ; 
on the side a narrow room for sausages and tom 
thumbs to be cured, getting a portion of the smoke 
through an aperture in the partition, and large jars 
of souse meat, tied up on the shelves. Next was an 
ash-house with a beam extended out in front, a 
large iron hook on it under the extended roof, with a 
copper kettle hanging, and that was used by twenty 
persons to take the ashes from the great house 
and cabins, and deposited in its place immediately 
after using it. Then the soap-house, with barrels 
around for the grease from cabins and kitchen, and 
soft soap, with the measure by the barrel, and 
dipper to fill the measure, and shelves arranged 
around with white and brown bars of hard soap, a 
knife to cut. them, and give to each servant, on 
their washing day, to encourage cleanliness and 
work systematically. Next was the wash-room, 
with its huge boilers, and every convenience, join- 
ing the nice kitchen, with everything at hand to 
make the work' light, and prepare meals seldom ex- 



8 MRS. ELLIOTT S HOUSEWIFE. 

celled. Near a tasteful flower-garden, under the 
shade of a broad oak-tree, was the hospital for the 
sick, to be carefully attended to by a trained nurse, 
everything having an air of comfort and cleanliness. 
To their memory I recount this as a guide for syste- 
matic management, not forgetting the well-stored cel- 
lar with potatoes in one end, lard and pickled meats 
in the other. The sweet potatoes were taken from 
the ground by hand and placed in large tubs, the 
tubs placed in a wagon and backed up to the door, 
and then taken out, one by one, and corded as we 
do wood, with occasionally a layer of dry straw be- 
tween. They were packed wall high on the sides and 
one end, with an open space for a small stove, that 
fire was kindled in from' bark, during a very severe 
freeze, and from that room from one September to 
the next, could nice sound sweet potatoes be taken, 
simply because they were handled carefully, not 
bruised, and a little pains taken to preserve them. 
In fact, I have ate old potatoes cooked for Christmas 
from that cellar fifteen months from the time they 
were dug. The part for meat in hogsheads and 
lard had nice shelves for jars, all marked with the 
initials of his name, and when they were filled with 
butter or lard to send to their merchant, there was no 
delay in selecting them from others, that had been 
sent from another source, or to retain the jars until 
the butter was retailed to customers in a small village. 
Wood, cut by measure, and kindling, were packed in 
one room for the wife's special use, with the saw- 
horse and saw, axe, hatchet, and iron mallet near 



SELECTION OF SERVANTS. 9 

the door. Through the well-swept yard (with pump 
between house and kitchen, nicely paved around with 
brick) it was pleasant to walk and see the sheep 
and hogs when driven from the pasture, each go in 
their respective stall under the low shelter erected 
for them ; and I conclude by saying, what man has 
done, man can do. 

SELECTION OF SERVANTS. 

In the selection of your servants, seek those who 
are neat in their apparel and cleanly in their habits. 
Tell them you require it, and unless they conform 
strictly to your rules, you cannot employ them. It 
is a good plan to demand written recommendations 
from their previous employers. Avoid all that are 
known to be given to open bad habits, tattling from 
house to kitchen, using bad language, indulging in 
intoxicating drinks, and the awful practice of snuflp 
rubbing, too much indulged in by our Southern cooks. 
Tell them of its bad effects, the stimulating effect, 
and injury to the brain ; the coating of the stomach 
that prevents digestion, and engenders disease that 
often baffles the physician's skill; the sin of the 
deception that is practiced with the abominable 
habit, and tax on their wages, and give them, 
withal, the opinion of a celebrated divine, who, when 
asked if he thought snuff rubbing injured the brain, 
replied, he could not tell, as his opinion was, no 
woman that had brains would use it. 



10 MRS. Elliott's housewife. 



SOUPS. 

TURTLE SOUP. 

Kill and clean a turtle very early in the morning 
and lay it in cold water. Wash and scrape the 
shell nicely. If a loggerhead, the largest size will 
only make one gallon of good soup. If sea-turtle, use 
eight pounds. Put it in your soup-kettle at eight 
o'clock, if wanted at three, with two gallons of wa- 
ter. Put in a hock of ham and the shell with it, and 
boil briskly. As soon as the shell is hot, take it out 
and scrape all the meat ,out of the inside, and return 
the meat to the kettle. Tie up in a thin bag some 
thyme and sweet marjoram, and at eleyen o'clock 
put it in with a tablespoonful of salt, pepper grains, 
and allspice. At one o'clock put in the juice of one 
lemon. Take out the hock when you put the spice 
in. Rub some brown flour smoothed with some of 
the soup, and thicken just before you wish it served, 
giving it one good boil, stirring all the time. Take out 
the bag with thyme and pour it in' a tureen and add 
one pint of sherry or Madeira wine to the gallon. Cut 
a lemon in slices and put it in with the yelks of four 
hard-boiled eggs. Chop some of the turtle from the 
bottom of the kettle, season it with pepper and salt. 
Mix in a few bread crumbs and make it in little cakes 
with beaten yelks of two eggs. Fry it in butter and 
put them on the top of the soup. You can strain 



SOOTS. 11 

this through a colander if you choose, but it will be 
better if poured off carefully from the kettle. 

BEEF SOUP. 

Put on very early in the morning a piece of beef, 
and boil it in two gallons of water; put in a nice 
hock of bacon. At ten o'clock, put in one gallon of 
peeled tomatoes, one pint of butter beans, two Irish 
potatoes, two carrots, one pint of chopped cabbage, 
a teaspoonful of sugar, and twelve okras cut in slices, 
with two onions chopped fine. One hour after you 
put them in, add a pint of green com cut off the cob 
and a spoonfiil of salt, with a pod of red pepper. This 
is a nice soup, but you can make it richer by beating 
eight eggs light, and stirring in them enough of the 
hot soup to cook them, and then adding it to the soup 
pot as you take it off. If you wish it extra, after you 
put it in the tureen, stir in a half pint of wine and 
half a lemon sliced up. Chop some of the meat with 
a little cold ham. Make it up into balls with bread 
crumbs, and a yelk of egg ; season them highly 
with pepper and fry them, then place on the top of 
the soup. Have toasted bread to eat with it. 

SOUP MADE WITH BEEP SHANK. 

Break the bone in a beef shank after it has been 
carefully washed in cold water, put it in a dinner-pot 
by eight o'clock in the morning, and nearly fill the 
pot with cold water. Let it boil briskly; at ten, put 
in one tablespoonful of salt, and two of onion chopped 
fine ; cut up small some white cabbage and add next ; 



12 MES. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

then peeled tomatoes with green corn cut off the ear, 
some okra cut fine and one pod of red pepper, and boil 
steadily until it is wanted for dinner, at one or two 
o'clock. Some persons like one tablespoonful of su- 
gar in this soup and a few butter beans. In winter 
use cabbage, and dried tomatoes or tomato sauce ; 
when that is used, do not put the salt in the soup. 
If you require it very thick, rub one spoonful of 
browned flour smoothed with cold water, and stir it 
in the soup just before you serve it, or have some 
nicely boiled rice and put one spoonful in each plate 
of soup as you serve it at table. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Take two quarts of water, or the liquor of boiled 
fowls ; put in it three pints of oysters, salt and pep- 
per to your taste, one tablespoonful of butter rubbed 
in the same of flour. Beat the yelks of four eggs 
and mix them with one pint of sweet milk and the 
liquor from the oysters (after it has been strained), 
and add them to soup. Let it cook a few minutes ; 
then pour it in a soup tureen with a few slices of 
dry toasted bread in the bottom, and serve it hot. 
Very fine. 

CHICKEN SOUP. 

Put one or two nice large hens in your soup pot, 
with a piece of the hock from a ham, one teacup of 
nicely washed rice and a spoonful of salt, fill the pot 
nearly full of cold water, and after it boils (if you 
like them) add one quart of peeled tomatoes, and one 
pint of green corn cut from the ear, with a little 



SOUPS. 13 

thyme, chopped fine. Just before you dish it, rnb 
one spoonful of flour and one of butter together and 
stir the soup well ; give it a boil up and serve hot. 

calf's head soup. 
Clean the head nicely, divide the chop from the 
skull, take out the brains and tongue, and boil the 
other part until it is tender ; put in a knuckle of veal 
or four pounds of lean beef. Chop three onions and 
put in, with a bunch of thyme and parsley tied in a 
muslin rag ; beat 'twelve cloves fine, two blades of 
mace and a dozen grains of allspice ; put that in a bag 
too (the flavor is all that is wanted and the soup 
is nicer without the grains), boil it in one gallon of 
water and boil down to three pints, then add half a 
pint of wine, some Worcester sauce or tomato catch- 
up, with a few slices of lemon, and thicken it with 
brown flour rubbed smooth in butter. This is fre- 
quently called mock turtle soup, and is a good imi- 
tation. 

calf's head stew. 

Take the pieces of meat from the soup pot and 
, chop them fine, put them in a saucepan with some of 
the gravy and stew it. Pick the brains and mix them 
with grated bread, pepper, and salt, and work them 
in small cakes with the yelk of an egg ; fry them and 
put them in the soup after it is placed in the tureen. 
Put paste around the stew that is baked separately ; 
put that in a dish, and add catchup and a few hard 
boiled eggs. 



14 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSKWIFE. 

GRANVILLE HOUSE SOUP. 

Put a large piece of beef on to boil early in the 
morning. At nine o'clock put in a stew-pan twelve 
onions, two turnips cut up, one head of celery, quarter 
of a pound of butter, and one quart of the water 
from the beef ; let them stew an hour, then season 
high with black pepper and salt, and stir it in the 
soup. . Before taking it up, stir in a pint of boiled 
cream, and have a dozen small onions, boiled in milk 
and water, to put in after it is dished. Serve it with 
Odenheimer sauce. The beef can be hashed up 
and stewed, put in a dish and garnished with sliced 
pickled cucumber and a hard boiled egg. 

DRIED PEA SOUP. 

Put one pound of peas and two slices of bacon to 
boil. (If bacon is not convenient, one large teaspoon- 
ful of butter or lard will answer.) Let it boil until 
the peas are tender enough to mash. Boil separately 
some mutton in slices, or pieces of beef, with salt and 
pepper, six carrots cut up, and six turnips, with one 
gallon of water. After they have boiled well for two 
hours, strain the peas in through a sieve, and let 
it boil nearly one hour more. This soup is very pop- 
ular in Louisiana with whole or split peas, 

PISH SOUP. 

Any kind of fresh fish can be used for soup. Al- 
ways stew them with vegetables and sweet herbs, 
and strain the liquor from them into a soup pot and 



SOUPS. 15 

add any seasoning you like. Celery and cayenne 
pepper adds much to the taste. 

LOBSTER SOUP. 

Put one dozen onions, one slice of beef and ham, and 
a small piece of butter in a stew-pan. When the on- 
ions are soft, mix them with some rich stock you have 
for soup ; boil, skim, and strain it through a sieve. 
Beat the meat of a haddock that has been boiled, the 
spawn and body of a large lobster, or two small ones, 
in a marble' mortar ; add it gradually to the soup and 
stir it until smooth. Let it boil again and skim it, add 
some cayenne pepper, a glass of wine, and the tail and 
claws of the lobster, cut in fine pieces, and serve it 
hot. 

TOMATO soup. 

Cut up a chicken an(f four slices of bacon in one 
gallon and a half of water. After they have well 
boiled put in one gallon of tomatoes, with a table- 
spoonful of sugar, two small onions, salt and pep- 
per, and boil imtil all are well done. Just before 
taking it up rub a large spoonful of flour in butter, 
thin, it with some of the soup and stir it slowly in ; 
let it have one boil and serve it hot. This is excel- 
lent. 

OYSTEK SOUP. NO. 2. 

Put two quarts of oysters with three quarts of 
water, three onions chopped up, two or three 
slices of lean ham, pepper and salt ; boil it down to 
three pints and strain it from the oysters through a 
sieve. Put the liquor and one quart of fresh oysters 



16 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

in the pot ; stir two gills of cream, four spoonfuls of 
flour, and the yelks of eight eggs together, and mix 
it in the liquor, boiling it a few minutes, then turn 
in all in a soup tureen and serve hot. 

SOUP MADE WITH TOUGH FOWIS. 

Cut off the legs and wings and the breast from 
the ribs, — do not use the back, — wash the pieces 
and put them in a soup pot with a slice of bacon, 
one onion cut up, some pepper and salt. Tie up 
some thyme and parsley in a thin rag and drop it in, 
boil it gently three hours, (add two spoonfuls of 
rice if you like it,) thicken it with two spoonfuls of 
flour rubbed in butter, and if you wish it add to the 
thickening the yelks of two eggs and half a pint of 
milk. I prefer it without the milk. . of 

GKEEN PEA SOUP. 

Put two quarts of green peas in three quarts of 
water and boil them two hours ; then strain them 
from the liquor, return that to the pot and put in a 
slice of nice pork or bacon, with one onion chopped 
fine, a little thyme, salt and pepper. When the 
meat 4ooks done, thicken the soup with butter rubbed 
in one spoonful of flour and mixed smooth with 
some of the liquor before it is put in the pot. Toasted 
bread, buttered, must be sent in with it. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

Take three large handfuls of asparagus, cut off^ 
one inch of the tops and lay them in water, chop the 



SOUPS. 17 

stalks and put them in a soup pot, with one onion 
cut up, pepper and salt, and three quarts of water ; 
boil briskly. When the stalks are done, strain them 
from the liquor, put that back with the tops, a hock of 
ham and a fat chicken. Boil it until the chicken is 
done, and thicken it with flour and butter rubbed 
together, and wet with soine of the soup or milk. 

MACARONI SOUP. 

Boil one quart of milk and one pound of maca- 
roni cut in small pieces and scalded in hot water be- 
fore it is put in the milk. When it looks tender take 
out part of it, add another quart of milk and boil 
it up, then add the other macaroni and a quarter 
of a pound of cheese ; let it simmer awhile but not 
boil. Add a piece of butter rolled in flour, some salt 
and pepper, and have toasted bread to eat with it. 
Cold soup, kept from the meat soup the day before, 
and strained, can be used instead of milk. 

VEKMICELLI SOUP. 

Break the bones of a knuckle of veal or a neck of 
mutton in small pieces, and put them in a soup pot ; 
put in a hock from a ham, two onions, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, and a head of celery, with a quarter of 
a pound of butter. Let it cook for one hour over a 
slow fire. Skim it and put one gallon of water 
to it boiling hot ; keep it boiling until the meat has 
left the bone, strain it, set it on the fire and add a 
quarter of a pound of vermicelli that has been 
scalded in hot water ; season it with salt and cay- 



18 MES. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

enne pepper and let it boil fifteen minutes. Lay slices 
of bread in the bottom of the pan and pour the soup 
over it. This soup is elegant, made with two chick- 
ens, with their bones all broken up before putting 
them on to stew. 

MILK SOUP. 

Blanch one quarter of a pound of almonds and put 
them in half a gallon of milk with a stick of cinnamon; 
stir in two tablespoonfuls of sugar ; when it boils up 
strain it. Beat the yelks of six eggs, set it on the 
fire and stir the eggs in by degrees until it thickens. 
Take it off instantly for fear it may curdle. 

CREAM SOUP. 

Break a knuckle of veal and put it on early in 
the day with two gallons of water ; let it boil until 
only two quarts. Then strain it and season it with 
white pepper, a little salt, mace, and lemon juice. 
Mix a tablespoonful of flour with one teacup of 
sweet cream and stir it in the soup ; give one boil up 
and serve in a tureen with cover. Always boil 
cream and strain it before adding to the soup. I 
think the friend that gave me this and the following 
recipe learnt it from, Mrs. Hale's Cookery. 

CURRY SOUP. 

Season two quarts of veal broth with two onions, 
a bunch of parsley, salt, and pepper ; strain it and 
return it to the pot with one chicken cut up and 
skinned, and one tablespoonful of curry powder. 



SOUPS. 19 

Boil until the chicken is tender, and just as you dish 
it pour in one cup of cream with the juice of a 
lemon. Have rice boiled to serve with it. 

NEW OELEANS GUMBO. 

Put one large spoonful of lard in your soup pot, 
and stir in it, until it browns, two large spoons of 
flour ; cut up in small pieces one large, fat chicken, 
and put it in the pot with the lard and flour, and 
cover it over to stew. Cut up one pound of lean 
beef, very fine, and one slice of ham, two large 
onions chopped, teaspoonful of thyme, parsley and 
marjoram, one pod of red pepper, and one spoonful 
of salt ; add them to the other ingredients, with four 
quarts of boiling water, and boil it briskly for two 
hours. When ready to dish it, take the pot off 
and stir in one large teaspoon of feela. Have some 
rice boiled nicely and sent to the table in a covered 
dish, and put one spoonful in the plate and then 
pour the gumbo in as you serve it. Have nice 
light bread or toast to eat with it. 

Oysters may be used in place of chicken. 

OKBA GUMBO. 

One tablespoonful of lard and two of flour care- 
fully browned in a pot ; cut in fine bits one large 
chicken and put it in to stew half an hour, then add, 
chopped very fine, one onion, some thyme, parsley, 
and marjoram. Add three quarts of boiling water 
and two tablespoons of rice, and one hour before 
you serve it stir in half a pint of okra chopped small. 



20 MES. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



HAM-BONE SOUP. 

Put in your soup pot one gallon of water, one 
fourth of a cabbage cut fine, four Irish or two sweet 
potatoes, half a gallon of tomatoes, six ears of com 
cut off the cob, half a pint of butter beans, six 
okras and one pod of pepper. Let these boil well, 
and one hour before it is to be served, put in the 
ham-bone you had cooked a day or two, when 
nearly all the meat is off. Put pepper and salt to 
your taste, if you do not like red pepper. 



If for pecuniary aid or pleasure you have to preside over a board- 
ing-house, try to make the home of those under your roof as agree- 
able as circumstances will admit. Always make a contract, even 
in small matters. If they name their peculiarities, and you agree 
to bear with them, do not speak of them when cares perplex you. 
You hare agreed to supply their daily wants and they to punc- 
tually pay for them. It is the business you have chosen, and there- 
fore your duty is to try and please. Have your table supplied with 
what your means can afford, and everything needed in table ser- 
vice at hand, in a clean, orderly manner, never having to complain 
of your orders being disobeyed at the table. That you should have 
attended to before the meals were announced. 

Preside at the head and see that your waiters are attentive to 
every want. If a delicacy is requested from your closet, give it 
cheerfully, by showing the pleasure it gives to have it at hand, 
without complaining of the trouble of housekeeping, and such lit- 
tle interruptions. You can add honor and dignity to any calling 
in life. There is nothing degrading in providing for the wants of 
your fellow- beings, presiding at the head of a hotel table or private 
boarding-house ; and a lady can make a reputation, characterized 
by dignity and honor, that will last years after she has been num- 
bered with the dead, and show the respectability of her family, 
by her modest deportment. If you are blessed with daughters. 



SOUPS. 21 

educate them in such a, manner that their pleasure will consist in 
lightening their mother's toil. They can so conduct themselres 
in their private parlor or at the head of the table, as to enlist the 
praises of the passing stranger or the daily boarder, though they 
rise while it is yet night to gWe meat to the household. 



22 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



FISH. 



BOILED EOOK-nSH, 



Clean the fish nicely and put it in a pot with cold 
water enough to cover it. You can pin a nice towel 
or not around it to keep it compact. If a large fish, 
put half a teacup of salt in the water. If small, 
lessen the quantity to suit. Boil it slowly one hour ; 
when the meat looks tender and easily leaves the 
bone it is sufficiently done. Serve it on a hot dish, 
and garnish it with hard boiled eggs cut in slices and 
put over the fish, with a nice butter sauce poured 
over to make it look nicely, and sprigs of parsley 
around the dish. If you have a fish-slice on your 
stove-boiler, put the fish in that, by all means, and 
steam it done; the fiavor is preserved, and it is 
much nicer when cooked by steam. Always have 
drawn butter and sauces for fish. 

BUTTEE SAUCE. 

Boil six eggs until the yelk is hard enough to rub 
smooth, and add butter when they are hot. Put one 
pint of the fish water in a saucepan, thicken it with 
a little flour rubbed smooth in cold water and then 
stir in four ounces of butter, with the egg, and give it 
one boil up. Serve in a sauce tureen. 



FISH. 23 



BAKED SHAD. 

Take some bread crumbs, chopped parsley, butter, 
pepper and salt, and mix them up with beaten yelks 
of eggs ; fill the shad with this dressing, tie a string 
around it, put in a pan with bits of butter over the fish 
and a little water, and bake it in an oven. Rock and 
sheep's-head may be baked in the same way ; takes 
longer time to cook rock than the others. Onion or 
garlic can always be added according to taste. 

BARBECUE SHAD. 

Take a fine large shad, put it in a pan, and sea- 
son it with cayenne pepper and a small teaspoonful 
of sugar ; put one large spoonful of butter and lard, 
mixed, on it, and a little salt. Mix vinegar and wa- 
ter, equal parts, and pour on enough to cover it. 
Bake slowly one hour. 

» 

FRIED SHAD. 

Split the shad open and cut in cross pieces three 
or four inches wide ; salt it, sprinkle a little meal 
through the sieve on it, and put it in hot lard to fry ; 
when brown turn it nicely, so both sides will be well 
cooked. 

SHAD AND ROCK ROE. 

This may be fried in hot lard, or beat up with eggs 
and fried in small cakes. If boiled, wrap them in a 
cloth and throw in boiling water, and dress with 
butter sauce. 



24 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



FRESH HEKKINGS. 

Clean them nicely and gash them half an inch 
apart on both sides, sprinkle a little meal or flour 
over them, and fry in hot lard. 

SALT HEREINGS. 

Soak them twelve hours before they are wanted ; 
let them drain, and fry or broil as you prefer. 

EELS. 

When eels are good they have a glossy, bright 
appearance on the back, and a brilliant white un- 
derneath. Clean them nicely, take out the entrails, 
skin and cut off their heads and tails, cut them up in 
pieces as long as your finger. If boiled, flour them 
and boil until tender in salt and water with parsley 
in it, and serve with butter sauce and chopped pars- 
ley. If baked, dip them in egg and bread crumbs, 
and season with butter and sweet herbs ; or to fry, 
leave out the butter and herbs. 

ANCHOVY. 

A small fish caught in the Mediterranean and 
exported for sauces and sandwiches. Wash them, 
remove the bones, and lay them between slices of 
bread and butter, or pound them with fresh butter 
and eat on toast. 

sheep's-head. 

This delicious fish is finer in the Norfolk, Virginia, 
market than any part of our country, and will not 



FISH. 25 

bear transportation without being packed in ice. 
After the fish is nicely cleaned and rinsed in two 
waters, put it on a fish-slice over a boiler of water, 
cover it and let it steam till perfectly done. When 
ready to serve, put in a dish with butter sauce 
poured over it. Garnish it with hard boiled eggs, 
cut in round slices, and curled parsley, and have 
butter sauce in the tureen to serve with it. Oden- 
heimer, Worcester, or tomato sauce as an accompa- 
niment. 

BAKED sheep's-head. 

Prepare a force-meat of bread crumbs, pepper, 
salt, butter, a bit of fat bacon chopped fine, a little 
onion or shallot, with the yelks of two eggs. Rub 
the fish with butter and sprinkle pepper and salt 
upon it ; place it in the stove pan or a long tin pan, 
and bake it till it is thoroughly done. 

SPOTS OR HOG-FISH, WITH ONIONS. 

Fry the fish at breakfast, cut slices of onions very 
thin and put them on every fish in layers ; cover 
them with vinegar. Nice side dish for dinner or 
good for tea. 

TO BOIL STUEGEON. 

Leave the skin on the piece you boil, and scrape 
it nicely ; take out the gristle and dredge it well 
with flour, then put it in cold salt and water with a 
few cloves of garlic ; boil and skim it nicely. When 
done, pour over it melted butter with parsley, and 
have sauces to eat with it, and drawn butter in a 
sauce tureen. 



26 MES. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



STUEGEON STEAKS. 

Cut them half an inch thick, lay them in salt and 
water a short time, then dredge with flour and fry 
quickly ; pour melted butter and fried parsley over 
them. 

STUEGEON, PICKLED. 

Clean and scrape it nicely, taking out all the 
gristle, cut it up in small pieces and salt it well ; 
let it remain two days, then boil it, not quite done 
enough to eat. Boil some vinegar, with cloves, 
allspice, mace, black pepper, and a little cayenne. 
When the sturgeon is perfectly cold, pack it in a 
jar and pour the vinegar hot over it. 

TO BAKE STUEGEON. 

Take a nice piece of sturgeon with the skin on, 
scrape it well, cut out the gristle, and boil it twenty 
minutes to extract the oil ; take it up and pull off the 
large scales. Make some force-meat of bread crumbs, 
butter, salt, and a little chopped parsley and shallot ; 
when the sturgeon is cold, stuff it with the force- 
meat. Put it in an oven or .stove pan with a pint 
and a half of water and a gill of wine, one of catchup, 
some salt and cayenne. Stew the sturgeon in this 
until done and thicken the gravy with butter rubbed 
in brown parsley ; garnish it with sprigs of parsley. 

STUEGEON CUTLETS. 

Take the tail piece of the sturgeon, skin it, and 
cut off the gristle ; cut it in slices half an inch thick, 



FISH. 27 

sprinkle them with pepper and salt, dredge them 
with flour, and fry in hot lard ; make a gravy of one 
pint of water, large spoonful of butter rubbed in 
brown flour, a little catchup and wine, and stew the 
cutlets in it a few minutes. 

TO PICKLE SHAD. 

Clean and cut open nice large shad and salt them, 
let them stand three or four days, then cut them in 
pieces four inches wide (as to fry), put them in a 
pot with cold water and boil them till done through, 
but not soft enough to leave the bone. Put them in 
a jar when cold and pour boiling hot vinegar with 
allspice, a few cloves, and black pepper boiled in it, 
enough to cover the fish nicely. You can pickle 
them from the barrel when first put up, by soaking 
them all night before cooking. 

CORNED SHAD. 

Clean and split open a fresh shad, mix one tea- 
spoonful of cayenne pepper and one of brown sugar, 
lay the shad open on a flat dish and rub it gently 
on the inside with the.pepper and sugar. Next morn- 
ing broil it nicely and put bits of butter on it, and 
you will find it superior to salt corned. 

<, •*'■ •■ 

SALT CORNED SHAD. 

Clean and split it open (always cut off the head), 
sprinkle salt over the inside and let it remain twelve 
hours ; wash it off' and broil it. Put bits of butter 
on it when hot. 



28 MBS. ELLIOTT S HOUSEWIFE. 

QUAKER POTTED HEBKING. 

Wash nicely as many herrings as you wish ; after 
having them scaled, cut off the heads and tails, and 
sprinkle a little salt over them, to stand a few hours ; 
drain them and wipe dry. Line a stone jar through 
with dough made of rye flour and water, rolled thin ; 
put the herrings nicely in the jar, then boil cider vin- 
egar enough to cover them, with a few cloves, some 
allspice, black pepper, and mace, and pour it boiling 
hot over the herrings. Cover the jar instantly with 
dough. The next day place them in a clean jar and 
tie up. They keep well, and cut in slices as souse- 
cheese. The vinegar eats all the bones up. You 
can add onion if you like it. 

CAROLINA POTTED HERRINGS. 

Put them in a stone jar with spices and salt 
sprinkled between and a layer of onions sliced ; set 
the jar in an oven of cold water ; fill it to the brim 
with vinegar and cover it with dough. Put fire 
under it and let it slowly cook nine hours. 

CLAM FRITTERS. 

^. Put into a pot of boiling water enough clams to 
make a pint when chopped up ; when the mouths 
are open, take the clams out of the shell and put them 
in a saucepan ; strain the liquor and put one half 
over the clams, with a little black pepper, and stew 
them half an hour, then take the clams out and 
chop them very fine, leaving out the hardest 



FISH. 29 

part. Beat six eggs 'and mix in gradually one pint 
of flour and one of milk ; beat it smooth, free from 
lumps, then mix the clams in the batter ; stir it well. 
Have some lard hot in a frying-pan, drop the batter 
in with a spoon and fry the fritter a light brown. 

OYSTER OMELET. 

Take the heart from twenty-five large oysters ; 
chop them fine. Beat six eggs, leaving out the 
whites of two; mix with the oysters and season with 
cayenne pepper and salt. Heat three ounces of 
butter in a frying-pan, pour in the mixture, and fry 
quickly. Raise the edges up with a knife occasion- 
ally. 

OYSTER FEITTEKS. 

Beat six eggs and stir in them six large spoonfuls 
of flour, with one pint of sweet milk and a teaspoon- 
fiil of salt. Take the oysters (half a gallon) out of 
the liquor and wash them in cold water ; strain the 
liquor through a coarse towel, add the oysters to the 
eggs and flour, then make it a thin batter with the 
oyster liquor. If large oysters, take up one at a 
time in a large kitchen spoon and drop in hot lard, 
prepared for them in your frying-pan ; if not very 
large, take up two or three with the batter in the 
spoon.. ,, 

STEWED OYSTERS. 

Wash the oysters in cold water and strain the liq- 
uor through a coarse cloth. Put them in a sauce- 
pan with a large spoOriful of butter to half a gallon 
of oysters, teaspoonful of salt and a little black pep- 



30 MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

per. Boil them until they are plump, about ten 
minutes. Serve them hot in a covered dish for 
breakfast, dinner or tea. Always palatable. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

Put in a saucepan two dozen large oysters and 
strain their liquor to them. Let them simmer, but 
not boil ; then take them out, and put in pepper and 
salt, with one teaspoonful of flour rubbed smooth in 
butter, one teacup of milk, and let it all boil. When 
you take it from the fire, put the oysters in and serve 
it hot. 

PICKLED OYSTERS. 1. 

Rinse your oysters in their liquor, strain it on them, 
and give one boil up, then take them out of the liq- 
uor to cool. Prepare vinegar by boiling it with black 
pepper, little salt, mace, cloves, and nutmeg, and 
when perfectly cold, pour it over the oysters and 
keep them in a stone jar. 

PICKLED OYSTERS. 2. 

Wash your oysters in cold water, put them in a 
porcelain kettle, with salt to your taste, put in some 
grains of black pepper and blades of mace, give them 
a good boil up, and when perfectly cold put half vin- 
egar and half of the liquor they were boiled in and 
pour over them. These keep well and are much 
liked. 

OYSTER ROAST. 

Have a hot fire and place the oysters on it and 
before it. When they begin to pop and open their 



FISH. 31 

mouths, place tliem with tongs upon waiters or flat 
wooden trays made for that purpose ; send them to 
be eaten hot. If you have invited guests, have an 
oyster or large case-knife, a coarse towel, a large 
plate and saucer by each guest, and for every two 
have a bucket or pan to receive the empty shells. 
Have on the table plain and pepper vinegar, black 
pepper, salt, butter, and thin biscuits or crackers. 
If you eat butter with them, put it on before taking 
from the shell. Sauces may be added to the vin- 
egar and pepper. 

OYSTERS FKIED. 

Have in your frying-pan some boiling lard or but- 
ter. Select fine large oysters, and wash them in 
cold water, putting in a few at a time and taking them 
out quickly ; place them on a dish and sift a little 
corn meal over them ; drop in the hot lard one or two 
at a time and fry them a light brown. Serve hot. 

TERRAPINS. 

Salt-water terrapins are the only kind I ever pre- 
pared. Put the terrapin in a pot of boiling water as 
you do a crab. When it is perfectly dead, take them 
out and remove the outer skin and toe-nails ; boil 
them again in warm water, with salt in it, till they 
are tender, then take off the shells and clean them 
very carefully ; remove the sand-bag and gall as 
nicely as you can, and put the shells in cold water ; 
scrape them clean and scald them. Then put all 
the meat and entrails, cut fine, in a saucepan with 



32 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

butter, pepper, cayenne, salt, and a few bread 
crumbs with a little Madeira wine, and the yelk of 
eggs boiled hard to mash like flour ; give it one boil 
up, fill the shells and set them in an oven to brown. 
This was a favorite dish of a friend of mine who was 
a great epicure and declared he ate black snakes 
prepared like terrapin. If you prefer the stew, cook 
it longer and serve on brown toast. Always allow 
one egg to a terrapin. 

SHRIMPS. 

Boil the shrimps with a little mace in the water, 
then bake them with butter and vinegar, or drop 
them in hot vinegar to pickle. 

Having spent my early days in the finest fish 
country in the Southern States, and basing my reci- 
pes on the experience of skillful cooks, I can rec- 
ommend them all as good. 

TROUT, 

Scale them nicely, sift a little meal over them, and 
fry in hot butter. If you use lard in preference, 
sprinkle salt over the fish. If you bake it put it in a 
pan with slices of meat and parsley, or bread crumbs 
sprinkled over, seasoned with butter, pepper, and 
salt. They are not so good boiled as fried. 

PERCH, SPOTS, AND HOG-PISH. 

Clean these nicely, sprinkle a little salt on them, 



FISH. 83 

then a dust of meal, and fry them in enough hot lard 
to cover them. Too nice to write about in an inland 
town. 

KOACH, SMELTS, GUDGEONS, MINNOWS. 

Sprinkle a little flour or meal over these and fry 
in boiling lard. 

TO BROIL MACKEEEL. 

Clean them nicely (if salted, soak them all night 
in clear water), grease the gridiron, put the fish on 
skin side down, broil till done and butter it. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Boil the coral of a lobster half an hour ; pound, 
and rub it smooth. Make a dressing of two hard 
boiled eggs rubbed smooth in two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar ; add one tablespoonful of English must,ard> 
three of salad oil, one of white powdered sugar, tea- 
spoonful of salt, same of black pepper, one pinch of 
cayenne, and the yelks of two raw eggs. Mix this 
well with the lobster and pour the sauce over the 
whole. Put nice white heads of lettuce in the 
centre of dish with the salad, and hard boiled eggs, 
cut, around it. 

TO PRESERVE FISH FOR TRANSPORTATION. 

Take the fish fresh from the water and fill the 
mouth with bread crumbs saturated with brandy ; 
pour a little in the stomach. Pack it in straw in 
a short time after and it will keep fresh ten days. 



34 MES. Elliott's housewife. 

When wanted for use put the fish in fresh water, 
and in a few hours they are ready. 

A NICE SALAD DRESSING. 

Yelks of four hard boiled eggs, three spoonfuls of 
mustard, two of sugar, one of salt, two tablespoonfuls 
of cream and five of vinegar ; rub the yelks of eggs 
hot in the vinegar and add the other ingredients. 

SALAD DRESSING, WITH OIL. 

Mix one spoonful of black pepper, half the quan- 
tity of salt, in two tablespoonfuls of oil. When well 
mixed stir in four tablespoonfuls more of oil and 
five of vinegar. Prepare any salad you wish and 
pour it over just as you use it ; add a little cayenne 
and sugar or mustard if you like. ' 

SCOLLOPED LOBSTER. 

Boil the lobster, *ake the meat and chop it fine, 
season it with pepper, and salt, Worcester sauce, or 
catchup ; add a tablespoonful of vinegar, small piece 
of butter, and enough cream or milk to moisten it ; 
put this in a saucepan and let it boil. Then put it 
in a buttered dish, sprinkle bread crumbs or pow- 
dered cracker over it and bake it brown. 

DEVILED CRABS. 

Boil the crabs and pick out all the nice meat, 
wash and scrape the shell, put the meat in a dish, sea- 
son it high with salt and pepper, and slight sprinkle 
of cayenne. Grate some bread crumbs, and mix a 



FISH. 35 

few with the crabs and stir it all up with yelk of 
egg. Fill the shells with the mixture and put a 
piece of butter on each ; put them in an oven or 
stove and bake them. 

CRABS SERVED PLAIN. 

Boil them in hot water, pick out all the white 
meat and put it in a covered dish wltli pieces of ice 
on the top. Send it to the table to be seasoned ac- 
cording to taste. 

lOBSTER PATTIES. 

Bake some puff paste in patty-pans. Take the 
meat of one or two boiled lobsters, mince it fine, 
and mix it with the coral smoothly mashed and 
hard boiled eggs grated ; season it with a little salt, 
cayenne, mace or nutmeg, and a little lemon rind 
grated. Moisten the mixture well with cream, fresh 
butter, or salad oil ; put it in a stew-pan with a very 
little water, let it come to a boil, take it off and fill 
the crust baked in the patty-pans. 

CRAB PATTIES. 

Boil hard crabs, clean them nicely and pick out 
the white meat ; season them with butter, pepper, 
and salt, and hard boiled yelk of egg grated ; put in 
a few bread crumbs, give the mixture one boil, and 
fill crusts baked in patty-pans. 



36 MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



HARD CKABS, BOILED. 

Throw them in boiling water and cook a few 
minutes. Eat them with vinegar and pepper. 

FEESH COD-FISH. 

I learnt to prepare this in Boston. To boil it, 
lay it in a kettle of cold water, with salt and a bit 
of salt-petre, and cook it thoroughly done ; serve 
with melted butter and any sauce you prefer. 
When fried, flour the pieces and sprinkle cayenne 
on them and fry brown. To stew, season it high 
with pepper and salt, and add a little wine and 
lemon, or some nice sauce with butter rolled in 
flour. 

COD SOUNDS. 

Boil them in milk and water, and serve with egg 
sauce after they have been soaked half an hour in 
warm water, scraped and cleaned. Always parboil 
.them before broiling. 

BAKED COD OR HADDOCK. 

Carefully take the skin from the middle part of 
the fish, make a dressing of bread crumbs, a little 
of the roe parboiled, pepper, salt, and butter, with 
egg (and lemon peel if you like it), stuff" the fish, 
sew it up and put it in a pan, put a little " lard and 
bits of butter over it, and serve with any sauce you 
like. 

TO CRIMP COD. 

Lay small pieces in half vinegar and salt for four 



FISH. 37 

hours, then cook it any way you prefer, — boiled, 
fried, or broiled. 

SALMON. 

This fish we never have fresh at the South. I 
have eaten it at Saratoga and Niagara, boiled and 
dressed with butter, and baked just as other fish. 
It requires longer boiling than any other fish, to 
' get it sufficiently done. Serve with sauces. The 
canned fish is fresh, of course, but not equal to its 
flavor when just from the water. 

CAT-FISH. 

There is a strong prejudice against cat-fish, but 
they make a delicious stew seasoned with salt, 
pepper, butterj and a little parsley (shallot if you 
like it). They are very fine when taken on the 
Sounds in large fisheries. 

CAT-FISH PIE. 

Cut the fish up arid stew it with salt, pepper, and 
butter for a few minutes, then put it in a pan lined 
with paste, cover it with the gravy, and bake with 
a top crust. 

COD-FISH BALLS. 

Boil three pounds of salt cod-fish slowly, after 
soaking it in cold water the night before. Boil some 
Irish potatoes and mash them fine,, whilst warm ; add 
a lai'ge spoonful of butter, in the proportion of one 
third cod-fish and two thirds mashed potato ; make 
it up with four eggs and a cup of milk, then make 
cakes of it in your hand, as you would a biscuit. 



38 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

about an inch thick, and fry it brown in hot lard or 
pieces of salt pork. Boil some eggs hard, cut them 
in halves, and put a piece in centre of the ball and 
send it to the table on a flat dish. 

CHOWDEK. 

Fry in a large pot some pieces of fat pork, well 
seasoned with pepper. When done, remove the pork 
and put in some slices of peeled- onions. Then 
some fresh fish, cod, rock, or black fish, with a layer 
of cut Irish potatoes ; add one pint of water and let it 
stew half an hour, then add one pint of milk thick- 
ened with a little fiour ; let it boil up, and serve 
hot. 

BOSTON CHOWDER. 

Fry four tablespoonsful of chopped onion with 
some slices of fat pork, and break up two pilot biscuit 
in it; then put one tablespoonful each of sweet 
marjoram and sweet basil, half a bottle of port wine, 
one fourth of a bottle of catchup, a half grated nut- 
meg, a few cloves and grains of pepper, six pounds 
of fresh cod and sea bass, cut in slices. Boil it 
steadily for an hour, stirring it carefully. Serve in 
a large covered dish. 

Sturgeon may be cooked in the same way. 

STEWED HALIBUT. 

Cut your fish in pieces four inches square ; having 
cut out the bone, season with a little salt and let it 
stand half an hour. Take it out of the salt and add 
some grated nutmeg, cayenne pepper, a little gin- 



FISH. . 39 

ger, pint of vinegar, and a spoonful of butter rolled 
in bread crumbs ; put it in a baking disb, set it in 
oven a!id let it cook slowly till well done, basting it 
frequently with the liquid. When nearly done add 
a tablespoonful of capers. 

SAUCE FOR riSH. 

Stew an onion in some of the water the fish is 
boiled in, and add one teaspoonful of grated horse- 
radish, with two of essence of anchovies. When the' 
onion is soft take it out, and put in a piece of butter 
just before you pour it in the tureen or over the fish. 

ANOTHER FISH SAUCE. 

Rub one quarter of a pound of butter with two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, into half a pint of water from 
the fish that is boiling. Add half a teacup of cream 
beaten with the yelks of six eggs, and three table- 
spoonfuls of Odenheimer or tomato sauce ; warm it 
enough to cook the flour, and put thin slices of lemon 
over the top. 

BROWN SAUCE FOR BAKED FISH. 

Take one spoonful of butter, one of flour, and 
one onion if you like it, fry it a pretty brown, then 
slowly stir in two spoonsful of catchup, walnut, or 
Odenheimer, and add a glass of port wine as yoii 
take it up. 

So many sauces are in use at the present day it 
is useless to add any more, as drawn butter and 



40- MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

I 

yelk of egg rubbed together with sauces are suffi- 
cient. 

APPLE SAUCE. 

Peel nice apples which are a little sour, put them 
in a tin or porcelain saucepan (cover them close) 
without any water, set the pan in boiling water in 
another vessel and keep a brisk fire under it. When 
soft, mash them with butter and sweeten to the 
taste. Some persons prefer it without sugar, with 
goose or other meats. This is a nice way to pre- 
serve the flavor of the apples for pies or custard. 

SAGE, ONION AND THYME SAUCE. 

Chop an onion, some sage leaves, and a few leaves 
of thyme in half a tumbler of water, let them stew 
together ten minutes with pepper and salt and a few 
bread crumbs. When ready to serve stir in one 
large spoonful of butter. 

FROGS. 

This ugly, noisy animal is considered equal to 
young chicken by some epicures, and I give a receipt 
from early recollection when my father enjoyed them 
alone. Take the hind legs of the large bull-frog, 
skin them and throw them in boiling water and let 
them remain ten minutes, then put them in cold 
water to cool, wipe them dry, sprinkle a little salt 
and corn meal over and drop them in hot lard to 
fry until a light brown. 



FISH. 41 



TO STEW FROGS. 

Skin the hind legs as above and parboil them for 
a few minutes, then fry them a light brown in but- 
ter. Chop a little parsley, thyme, and onion (or gar- 
lic), put in a little salt and pepper, mix it in a little 
wine and water, and pour it on the frog legs ; let it 
stew untH they are tender. Beat the yelk of one egg 
to a frog, stir it in and serve them hot. 

MUSCLES. 

These are better in the fall and winter than any 
other season. You can fry them Hke oysters. After 
they have been well soaked in water and washed, 
put them on the fire in a saucepan and remove the 
shell as soon as they open. Save the liquor, sea- 
son it with butter and pepper and stir in a little 
flour ; let it boil up. Then add the muscles, with 
a little parsley and yelks of eggs beaten, give them 
one boil up and serve with slices of lemon. 

FISH PIE. 

Boil a large rock-fish and pick it up. Add to it 
three eggs, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one of flour, 
and make it in a batter with milk. Add salt and 
pepper, and bake it in a paste, 

EOCK CHOWDER. 

Cut rock-fish in pieces about four inches wide. 
Put in a dinner pot a layer of fat meat, then one of 
biscuit or bread, then one of onions, with salt, red and 



42 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

black pepper, then a layer of fish. Repeat until all 
is in, cover with water, and boil it five hours. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

Cover the bottom of an iron pot with pieces of 
fat pork that has been in salt, and fry all the grease 
out. Then put in a layer of clams and a layer of 
sliced Irish potatoes until you have the amount re- 
quired ; season it with pepper, and put water enough 
to moisten it. Cover it close and cook over a hot fire 
thirty minutes. Cover a dish with crackers and pour 
the chowder hot over it. 

FISH COOKED WITH OIL. 

Cut fish in pieces an inch thick and season it with 
pepper and salt ; let it lie one hour, dry it with a 
towel, flour it and fry it brown in oil. Put in your 
saucepan equal parts of vinegar and oil, with a little 
garlic, mace, pepper, and salt, and let it boil and then 
cool. When the fish and liquor are cold, slice some 
onions, lay them in the bottom of the fish kettle, and 
then a layer of fish with another of onions until you 
have all in. Pour the liquor over it and slowly cook 
it all until the onion is quite soft. 

FISH STEWED WITH WINE. 

Cut fish in pieces and put it in a kettle with one 
tumbler of wine and water mixed, three onions 
sliced, a slice of bread toasted brown, salt, pepper, 
and a lump of butter ; cover it with sufiicient water 
to cook it and stew it gently. Just before you serve 



FISH. 43 

it, pour the gravy In a saucepan, roll some butter in 
flour to thicken it, add some catchup and wahiut 
j)ickle, stir it smootli and pour it over the fish to 
heat. Serve it hot, add an anchovy to this, if you 
like, when you first put it on to stew. 

WHITE FISH SAUCE. 

Put one glass of white wine, and two of water in 
a saucepan, with a little nutmeg, grated lemon peel, 
and two anchovies. When it has boiled five min- 
utes, strain it and add a spoonful of vinegar. Roll 
nearly one pound of butter in flour, stir it in, boil it 
up and pour over a nice boiled rock, sheep's-head, 
or any other fish you prefer. 

As many persons wish to board to avoid the cares of house- 
keeping, a few words of advice may not be out of place. Boarders 
generally feel they have a right to demand any and everything 
they wish, whether it is convenient or not for their demand to be sup- 
plied ; and if their wishes are not complied with, go at once to the 
landlord with a complaint. If they have never known the cares 
they seek to avoid, there may be some excuse. There are times, 
particularly in small towns and villages, when necessary articles 
cannot be procured. The housekeeper and landlord of a hotel have 
to depend on the same market ; and company with one, is as the 
boarder with the other. How often housekeepers, when company 
drops in, are dependent on their neighbors for a kindness, which a 
landlord would not feel justifiable in asking. We should never exact 
more than we are willing to dispense. Few persons display the no- 
ble gift of gratitude they owe to their landlord, thinking the 
money he receives is his only due. Not so. When that trait of 
character, with a kind manner is displayed, no boarder will have 
to complain of inattention. The constant exercise of their 
minds for the good of others, makes the duty to please hard to 
perform. 

Husbands are often subjected to inconvenience by some trivial 



44 MRS. Elliott's housewife. 

circumstance when their means would not justify any other mode 
of living ; and a shell of a house, with bread and water, are considered 
preferable to the various comforts enjoyed, if every wish is not 
instantly complied with. The cold dinner on the Sabbath day is 
complained of, when a moment's reflection should teach them to 
" go and do likewise." The command given for no work to be 
<done, does not exempt any. The laborer must have rest to prepare 
for the bread of life, and such examples should be imitated. The 
desired change is made, the novelty wears off, and housekeeping 
has perplexing cares. The wife relents and finds, when too late, 
she did not exercise that good gift, " The very bond of peace," 
as she ought to have done, and the complaint against her sex receives 
additional force from her hasty action. May the young women 
of the rising generation remove that odium, showing women can 
dwell peaceably together in one house by bearing with each other's 
infirmities. 



MEATS. 46i: 



MEATS. 

GATES's RECIPE FOR CURING HAMS. 

After the ham is perfectly cold, mix some salt, 
saltpetre and red pepper pods in a tray, and mois- 
ten it with warm water and a little molasses. Rub 
the hams well in this and pack them in a barrel, 
with a handful thrown in on each layer, and occa- 
sionally a handful of coarse salt. Let them remain 
closely packed for four weeks. Take them out of 
the brine, dip them in fresh tan ooze (that is made 
from red oak bark), lay them down with bone side 
up, and cover around the bone thickly, with cayenne 
pepper. Hang them up to smoke with hock down, 
and smoke with hickory chips. I tested this recipe 
ten years, and never lost a ham or had one with a 
bug in it. Wash it in two or three waters before 
putting it on to boil. Always have the door open, 
or some way for the smoke to escape when curing 
meat. The best plan is to have an inside slat door 
with a lock, so the strong door can be left open part 
of the day, that secures your smoke-house. 

PICKLE FOR CURING BACON. 

Take five gallons of water, seven pounds of salt, 
one pound of sugar, one pint of molasses, two tea- 
spoonfuls of saltpetre, and stir it well ; rub the 
thick part of the ham, shoulder or middling with 



46 MES. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

a little salt, and pack it in a clean barrel, — hams 
first, then shoulders and middlings. Pour the brine 
over, and if not enough to cover it well, make more 
the same way. Let it remain from four to seven 
weeks in the brine, according to size ; then drain 
them, sprinkle pepper around the bone, and smoke 
with hickory wood, or dry in the air as you prefer. 
Makes sweet meat and keeps well. 

SAUSAGE MEAT. 

Chop the pieces of fresh meat you do not cure 
as bacon. To twenty-five pounds, put half a pound 
of sugar ; pepper and salt to your taste. Mix it well 
and keep it dry. Sugar keeps it from getting strong. 

ADMIRAL POCOCk's RECIPE FOR CORNED BEEF. 

Cut up quarters of beef in pieces to suit the size 
of your family. Lay it one hour in cold water, then 
spread it to drain ; have a clean barrel and (after 
the water has drained from the beef) place it in 
the barrel with a layer of coarse salt between each 
layer of beef (if fine salt has to be used put a slight 
sprinkle). Have in a large iron pot six gallons of 
water, four quarts of salt in winter and six in sum- 
mer, two ounces of pulverized saltpetre, half a 
pound of brown sugar and one pint of molasses. 
Boil and skim off the thick scum, set it aside to 
cool, and when perfectly cold pour it over the beef 
in the barrel, and put clean rocks on the beef to 
keep it under the pickle. This quantity of pickle 
will answer for one quarter of beef weighing eighty 



MEATS. 47 

pounds. Steaks can be used out of the barrel for 
eight days without being too salt, if nicely washed 
off in cold water. I have tested this twenty years. 

mcmokine's corned beef. 
Cut up your beef in pieces the size you wish 
after it has hung up to tender. Put some fine salt 
in a wooden tray, with one teaspoonful of saltpetre 
finely powdered, to one quart of salt ; wet it with 
molasses, and rub each piece of beef well with it. 
Have a clean cask or barrel, and pack it in with a 
layer of coarse salt (or slight sprinkle of fine) be- 
tween each layer of beef. It will soon make pickle 
enough to cover it. Keeps well and is nice when 
boiled for dinner, or to broil for a few days before 
the salt strikes in. Use four quarts of salt to sixty 
pounds of beef. 

DRIED BEEF. 

After curing the ham of beef by Pocock's or Mc- 
Morine's recipe, letting it remain in the pickle ten 
days, take it out, dip it in a pot of boiling water, 
and hang it up in your kitchen, where it will get 
air on all sides. It keeps well and is convenient to 
broil for breakfast or tea. Two weeks will be long 
enough to hang it to dry. 

HAM BOILED WITH HERBS. 

Put your ham on in a pot of cold water ; when it 
boils, put in one bay leaf, with a bunch of thyme 
and parsley ; boil slowly for two hours, then take it 
and remove the skin, spread grated bread crumbs 
over it and set it in an oven for half an hour to brown. 



48 MES. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



NEW HAM, BOILED. 

Put a new ham on two hours earlier than you 
would one that has been cured. After it has boiled 
hard for one hour, dip off the liquor and pour cold 
water in the pot and boil again briskly. Boil cab- 
bage and turnips with it and dish them separately. 

HAM BOILED IN WINE. 

Boil a ham in clear water one hour or more ac- 
cording to size ; take it out of the water and rub it 
off with a clean cloth and remove the skin ; put it 
in a kettle, pour wine over it and keep it closely 
covered, steadily boiling one hour. It is very nice 
browned in an oven for half an hour with brown 
sugar sprinkled over it. 

fannib's stuffed ham. 
Boil the ham until done, remove the skin and save 
the juice. Take some bread crumbs, parsley chopped 
fine, black pepper, butter (and onion if you like it), 
and mix it up with the juice of the ham ; then take the 
ham on a dish and make incisions with a carving 
knife, top or underneath, and with your finger stuff 
the force-meat in. Cover the ham with it or grated 
bread crumbs, dust pepper all over it, place it in an 
oven or stove, and bake twenty-five minutes. Nice 
for a spring dinner when hot ; and elegant, cold, for a 
meat supper. 

BONED ham. 

Soak a nicely cured ham the night before you 



MEATS. 49 

wish to cook it, in tepid water. Next day, place it in 
a large dinner pot of water the same temperature, 
and boil it briskly eight or ten hours. Take it up in a 
wooden tray, let it cool, and carefully take out the 
bone ; cut it "clear at the hock and loosen it around 
the bone on the thick part, with a thin, sharp knife, 
and slowly pull it out. Then press the ham in shape 
and return it to the boiling liquor. Take the pot off 
the fire and let the ham remain in it, until cold. It 
is like beef tongue when cut across in slices. 

FRIED HAM WITH EGGS. 

Cut some nice slices of ham, take off the skin and 
throw them in cold water ; wash and rinse them ; 
have your frying-pan hot ; put the ham in and fry 
until well done ; with a fork take the slices out and 
lay them on the dish they are to be served in ; then 
break some eggs, one by one, and drop them whole 
in the juice from the ham. As soon as the white 
looks done, take them up and put them nicely on the 
ham. 

KOAST HAM. 

Soak a ham in tepid water the night before you 
wish to roast it. Four hours before you wish to serve 
it, set it before a moderate fire in a tin kitchen, turn 
the spit frequently, and let it roast two hours. Then 
take it up on a dish or pan and take the skin nicely 
off, scrape all the fat out of the roaster, return the_ 
ham and let it roast two hours more, basting it often 
with the drippings in the . bottom of the roaster. 
When it is done take the ham up on a dish, put the 
4 



50 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

drippings in a saucepan, stir one tablespoonful of 
flour in a teacup of water, pour it in the sauce and 
boil" up. Serve this in a sauce tureen. 

BOILED HAM. 

Wash a ham nicely in warm water ; rub it well 
with a wet cloth. Have a large dinner pot on the 
fire, fill with cold water and put your ham in ; let 
it boil slowly until the water is very hot, and then 
boil briskly. Turn it in the pot occasionally, and 
allow four hours to cook it thoroughly, if over ten 
pounds ; three will do if under that weight. 

ROAST BEEF. 

Cover the beef you intend to roast, the night be- 
fore, with black pepper. Pepper sweetens the meat 
and salt extracts the juice. Next day wash it oS 
and season it with a little salt. Put it in a tin kitchen 
before a hot fire, with the bone side to the fire. 
When nearly done turn the spit and let the fleshy part 
go next to the fire, and baste it with the drippings in 
the bottom of the kitchen ; stick a fork in it and if 
the juice looks red, let it cook a little longer. Stir 
one tablespoonful of browned flour with water until 
smooth, and thicken the gravy in the pan with it. 
Place the meat in a hot dish and pour a little of the 
gravy over the top, balance in a sauce-boat. Eat 
Odenheimer or tomato sauce with it. 

MUTTON AND LAMB. 

Roast mutton and lamb in the same way, weD 



MEATS. 51 

rubbed over with lard and seasoned with pepper and 
salt, and cooked well done. 

VEAL. 

Always stuff veal to roast or bake with a force- 
meat made of bread crumbs, sweet herbs, bits of fat 
bacon, pepper, and salt, and garnish with crisped 
parsley. 

Melissa's stuffed beef. 

Take a nice piece of roasting beef and put it on to 
boil. When nearly done, take it off the fire, make 
incisions in the beef and stuff them with a force-meat 
made as follows : Bake a piece of plain corn bread 
(meal and cold water mixed), take the crumbs and 
mix it up with two eggs, two onions chopped fine, 
pepper, and salt, with a little chopped sage arid pars- 
ley, wet it with the grease that you skim off the wa- 
ter the beef was boiled in, put it in the incisions and if 
any is left over the top of the beef, place it m an oven 
with the grease from the top of the water and brown 
it. This is a delicious way of preparing fat beef. 

kandolph's beef alamode. 
Take the bone from a round of beef, fill the space 
with a force-meat made of crumbs of loaf bread, four 
ounces of marrow, one head of garlic or two onions, 
a little thyme and parsley chopped fine, a little nut- 
meg, cloves, pepper, and salt ; mix it to a paste with 
four eggs, stuff the lean part of the round with it, in 
incisions made with a carving knife, and if any is left 
make balls of it. Sew it up in a linen towel, put it in 



62 MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

a tin just large enough to hold it, pour one pint of 
red wine over it ajid cover with a sheet of tin, put it 
n a warm oven and bake it three hours (a brick 
oven is best but out of date). When done, skim the 
fat from the gravy, thicken it with browned flour, 
add some catchup and put the balls over it. Good 
hot or cold. 

BOUILLI BEEF. 

Put six pounds of a brisket of beef in a pot of 
cold water enough to cover the beef well ; let it boil 
until the scum rises and skim it nicely. Add two 
carrots, two turnips, and one onion cut in dice form ; 
stick one onion full of cloves ; let this simmer tliree 
hours ; then add one tumblerful of red wine, two tea- 
spoonfuls of mixed mustard, one tablespoonful of 
tomato soy or catchup, and let it simmer one hour. 
Take the beef out and stir a tablespoonful of flour 
in the gravy, give it one boil up and turn it over 
the beef, then put pickled cucumber cut up fine all 
over the top. 

If you choose, in summer, you can add tomatoes, 
okras and one or two potatoes. It is extra nice. 

FRIED BEEFSTEAK. 

Have some lard boiling hot, in your frying-pan, 
sprinkle a little salt and pepper on the beef and then 
dredge it with flour, put it in the hot lard and fry it 
quick. Some persons think it is better to fry with a 
lid on the pan or spider. Always beat your steak 
well with a beef mallet when it is to be fried and see 
that it is cut across the grain. 



MEATS. 53 



POTATO BEEF. 

Boil some Irish potatoes, and mash them nice and 
smooth with milk and two beaten eggs ; put a layer 
of this on the bottom of a pie pan, with a layer of 
beef and tlien potatoes until the pan is full j put bits 
of butter on the last layer of beef and then potatoes 
over the top. Cut your beef very thin and only 
use the lean ; bake it slowly. 

BEEF PATTIES. 

Cut up bits of cold beef and season it with salt, 
pepper, a bit of mace, and any sweet herb you like ; 
add cold gravy if you have it, if not, bits of butter 
and lard, and a little water with a teaspoonful of flour 
stirred in it. Make a nice plain paste, not very rich, 
roll it out the size of your pie plate and line your 
plate with it. Put the beef with some of the gravy 
in the centre of the plate, and fold the paste from 
each side to meet in the middle, pinch it together, 
prick the top with a fork, and bake it a light brown. 
Cheap and very nice. 

BEEFSTEAKS. 

Cut your steaks half an inch thick and beat them 
well with a beef mallet (or hammer), have your grid- 
iron nicely cleaned and greased on the kitchen dress- 
er, put the beef on it, then put it over bright, hot coals 
to broil ; turn it over often ; have a hot dish before 
the fire with a, little butter, pepper, and salt in it ; 
turn the beef over and over in this, then put bits of 



54 MBS. Elliott's housewife. 

butter on the top and touch them with boiling wa- 
ter from the kettle, just enough to make it dissolve 
easily. If you have a hot water pan to fit under 
the dish, put it over it filled with boiling water, and 
cover the steak over. You will find this extra nice. 

MUTTON CHOPS. 

Cut them from the rack of mutton, with one bone 
in each, broil them on a gridiron, then season with 
pepper and salt, make a gravy with one gill of hot 
water, large spoonful of butter, and one spoonful of 
catchup ; boil it up and pour it over. Twist curled 
paper on the end of the bone when sent to the 
breakfast table. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Cut off the fiank and take the bone out, then take 
slices the size of the fillet and half an inch thick ; 
grate some bread crumbs, and mix them with two 
yelks of eggs that have been beaten ; put it on the 
veal and press it with a knife or cake turner, and let 
them stand to dry, then fry them in hot lard a light 
brown. Take them from the lard and stew them in 
gravy seasoned with wine, lemon, and curry powder ; 
let it cook fifteen minutes, then thicken with butter 
and browned flour. Leave out curry powder if you 
choose. 

VEAL CHOPS. 

Cut your chops from the best end of a rack of 
veal, one bone in each. Prepare crumbs of bread ; 
dip the chops in beaten yelks of eggs and then bread ; 
grease pieces of writing paper with butter, wrap it 



MEATS. 55 

around the chops and carefully broil ; do not let the 
paper burn. Broil on a hot spider instead of grid- 
iron when you use paper. Have a nice white sauce 
to put over them, highly seasoned. 

BAKED BEEF TONGUE. 

Make a stiff paste of coarse flour and water ; roll 
it out thin and inclose the beef tongue in it after 
it has soaked one day and night and been nicely 
cleaned ; put it in an oven and bake it slowly for five 
hours. When done, remove the paste and serve it 
hot with Irish potatoes mashed fine and put in a nice 
roll around it. This is the best way to cook it 
when to be eaten cold. 

BOILED BEEF TONGUE. 

Wash the tongue well and scrape the root ; put it 
in soak the day before you wish it, and change the 
water once or twice. Put it in a dinner pot with 
cold water and boil it six hours ; take it up, and trim 
it nicely, and serve hot with Irish potatoes mashed 
around it, and sprigs of parsley over the thick part 
by the root. When you want to press it, boil from 
four to six hours and cut all the root off. 

calf's tongue. 
Salt the tongue in a brine of salt and water with 
a little sugar and a pinch of saltpetre in it (three 
days or longer if you wish), boil it tender, peel it and 
cut it in slices around chickens or ducks, or use it as 
you do beef tongue ; it is more dehcate. 



66 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



HOG TONGUE. 

The tongue of the hog is usually left with the jowl 
and salted with it. Where you have a good many 
hogs killed, you can spare some to corn, and they 
will be nicer. Scrape the tongue nice and clean and 
rub a bit of saltpetre on each one and a teaspoonful 
of jHolasses ; let it stand on tiieiii two hours, then rub 
salt on and pack them with salt between in a keg. 
They keep well and answer to boil in a family in 
place of pieces of bacon, and are a very nice relish 
for breakfast or tea. 

hogs' bbains. 
Pour boiling water over the brains and let them 
remain in it a short time ; then skin them and beat 
them with egg broken "in and seasoned with salt and 
pepper. Have hot lard ready in your pan, put 
them in and stir them all the time until done. 

FBIED TKIPE. 

After tripe has been boiled tender, cut in slices 
four inches square. Make a batter of four eggs, 
four tablespoonfuls of flour, and one pint of milk ; 
dip the tripe twice in the batter and fry it in hot 
lard. It is very nice fried witiiout the batter, with 
a little vinegar poured over it just before it browns. 

CATTLE FEET. 

Clean them nicely and soak them three or four 
days, changing the water every day. Have them 



MEATS. 57 

scraped nicely and boiled in salt and water. Pour 
that off after it has boiled three hours, and put clean 
hot water to them and boil until very tender. 

hogs' feet. 
When boiled and put up in vinegar for souse, 
split them open and dip them in a thin batter made 
of flour, egg, and water, and fry them in hot lard ; or 
split them, grease the frying-pan, and warm tliem 
with vinegar poured over them in a pan. Eat them 
cold if you prefer it. 

LAMB KOASTED OR BAKED. 

Take the fore quarter of lamb and season it 
with salt and pepjier ; put it in a tin kitchen before 
the fire and roast it, basting frequently with lard, 
and make a gravy with the drippings, or rub it with 
lard and put it in a Dutch oven or stove pan to 
bake, with a little water ; cook it slowly until well 
done. Never parboil it for baking ; it extracts the 
laste of the meat and makes it stringy. Mint 
chopped very fine, put in vinegar with a little sugar, 
makes an agreeable sauce. 

BOILED LAMB. 

Wrap the hind quarter of lamb in a coarse 
towel, put it in a pot of warm water and boil it 
slowly until tender ; have a little salt in the water. 
Take it up and dress it with a nice butter sauce, 
cut hard boiled eggs in rings and put over it with 
bits of parsley scalded in hot water ; add capers to 



58 MRS. Elliott's housewife. 

your sauce or mint sauce to eat with it, as with the 
roast and baked. 

ROAST PIG. 

Have your, pig killed and cleaned the evening 
before you wish it or very early in the morning ; 
have it well scraped and wash it in cold water 
changed two or three times ; cut the feet off close 
to the first joint, take the heart and liver, and put 
them with the feet in a saucepan to stew. Fill the 
body of the pig with Irish potatoes mashed fine, 
seasoned highly with pepper, salt, tablespoonful of 
butter and one of lard ; fasten the legs together, sew 
the body up and rub it all over with salt and pep- 
per. Put it in a tin kitchen before a hot fire, turn 
the spit often, and occasionally rub a piece of lard 
over it, tied in muslin, to make the skin crisp. You 
can suspend it in front of the fiie with a string on 
a strong nail, and spider under it to catch the drip- 
pings, or place it in a stove pan or Dutch oven to suit 
your convenience. The feet should be cut up, liver 
and heart chopped fine and boiled in clear water 
with a few sage leaves, then take them out and 
season highly ; riib some bits of butter in flour, stir 
it in, and stew until tender ; then take the drippings 
from the pig in the pan or oven, and thicken it with 
flour, give it a boil up, and serve in tureen for 
gravy. 

Another dressing may be prepared with crumbs 
of bread, scalded and seasoned with salt, pepper, 
and butter, a little sage sifted in, and a small onion, 
chopped fine, and stuff in the same way. 



MEATS. r,fl 

Another, prepared with corn meal baked in plain 
cakes, scalded and mixed with yelks of eggs and 
highly seasoned with butter, pepper, salt, and lard, 
sage and sweet marjoram sifted in to taste, is very 
much liked. Always cook it a pretty brown and 
send the pig to the table with a lemoji, apple, or 
small orange in his mouth. 

TO BAKE QUARTERS OF PIG. 

Cut the skin cross ways, wash it nicely, and rub 
it with pepper and salt, (little dry sage if you like,) 
put it in the oven with a little water and lard, and 
bake it brown. 

PORK AND BEANS. 

Take a nice piece of corned pork, wash it clean, 
and put it in a pot with one quart of hominy or 
navy beans and let them boil one hour. Take the 
pork out and boil the beans an hour longer, then 
put them in a pan and put the pork in the middle 
and bake three hours. 

PORK CUTLETS. 

Cut them from the leg, take off the skin and 
beat them with a pestle ; have some bread crumbs, 
sage, and onion chopped fine, and some yelk of egg 
beaten ; dip them in the egg and then in the bread 
crumbs with seasoning. Fry them with a small 
piece of lard until a light brown, turning them often. 
After you take them up, sprinkle a little flour in the 
gravy, give it one boil up, and pour over them in 
the dish. 



60 MRS. Elliott's housewife. 



BEOILED POEK STEAKS. 

Take some nice pieces of loin, season it well 
with ]iepper, salt, and powdered sage, put it on your 
broiling irons or spider, and turn it often until it is 
thoroughly done. Cut a piece to try it, and if it 
looks red, it is not done enough. Make gravy as 
for cutlets. 

TO BOAST A LOIN OF PORK. 

Cut the skin in narrow strips, and rub it all over 
with salt, pepper, and dry sage finely powdered. 
Make incisions between the ribs, and stuff it with a 
dressing made of bread crumbs, chopped onion, 
pepper, and salt mixed up witli beaten yelk of egg. 
Put it before the fire on a spit and baste it with 
lard. It may be baked in an oven or stove after it 
is dressed, but roast is the sweetest. 

POEK STEW. 

Backbones, spareribs, or piece of the leg of fresh 
pork makes a nice stew. Stew it in clear water 
one hour, then add salt, black pepper, and sage, and 
stew it gently for one hour. Cut up a little red 
pepper if you like and add sweet or Irish potatoes, 
cut small, or a few turnips. 

COKNED PORK. 

After it has been salted one week, boil a piece of 
co^-ned potk two hours and then put in a cabbage, and 
boil one hour more. It is nice with the skin re- 
moved and browned before the fire. 



MEATS. 61 



PIG S HEAD STEW. 

Cut the head open and take out all the brains ; 
boil the feet with it until all is tender, then take out 
all the bones, mince the tongue fine, and chop the 
brains. Take some water from the pot you boiled 
the head in, and put it with the meat ; season it 
with a little dry sage, caj eime, or red pepper pod 
chopped fine, salt, and black pepper, and a little to- 
mato catchup ; stew it twenty minutes, broil the 
liver nicely, put the stew in a dish, and the liver 
around it. This is a good receipt for shoat, or full 
grown hog's head stew. 

BLOOD PUDDING. 

Catch the blood as it runs from the hog, and 
stir it constantly until perfectly cold ; then thicken 
it with rice or oatmeal, add some beef fat chopped 
small, season it highly with salt, pepper, a little sage, 
and chopped red pepper pod. Fill large skins, stick 
them with a fork, to prevent bursting ; boil and 
smoke them. 

LIVER PUDDINGS. 

When putting up your pork (as we term it in 
hog killing time), boil the livers very tender, chop 
them fine and season with pepper, salt, sage, and 
cayenne, as we do sausage meat. Take some of 
the large skins, stuff them about nine inches long, 
tie tlie end securely and stick them with a fork to 
prevent bursting ; put them in a pot and boil slowly 
for an hour. When cool, pack them in stone jars 



62 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

and they will keep well and require no further 
cooking. 

SAUSAGE MEAT. 

Take all the spare meat and tenderloins from 
your pork and grind it in a sausage grinder or chop 
it. Season it highly with black pepper, salt, and 
powdered sage. Boil one or two pods of red pep- 
l)er, and pour the tea over it ; work it all up ; cook a 
small piece to try, and if not seasoned high enough, 
add what it needs. Pack it in a jar, or stuflF skins 
with it after they have been soaked and cleaned 
nicely; hang, them up to dry. Smoking makes 
them hard. 

SAUSAGE MEAT. 

If you want it extra nice, take two nice fresh 
hams and one shoulder ; take off the skin and have 
it chopped nicely, season it with salt, pepper, sage, 
and a very little sugar. If yon like spiced meats, 
use with that a few cloves, some mace, and nutmeg. 
Keep it in a dry, cool place, and fry it in balls, or 
stuff the skins, when you first make it, for dried 
sausages. 

BEEF SAUSAGE MEAT. 

Chop or grind four pounds of beef and two 
pounds of suet together, after the suet has been 
picked ; season it highly with salt, pepper, and cay- 
enne, make it in balls, and fry it. If you wish to 
stuff beef chitterlings with it, add cloves and a little 
garlic, and stuff the skins ; put them in strong-salt 
and water brine for two weeks, turn them often, 
then wipe them dry, and smoke them. 



MEATS. 63 



TO FKY IIVER. 

Cut youi' liver in nice pieces, put it in cold water 
and let it boil until it looks nearly done, take it out 
and drop it in hot lard, and season it with pepper 
and salt after you take it out. 

The beauty of a well ordered home is beyond calculation. Wo- 
man is the priestess ministering before its altars and the incense 
arising from her heart is full of bliss or anguish to all around her. 
Here the parents can draw close in counsel, and consider measures 
for their government and prosperity. Here, in unmolested glad- 
ness and security, children gather and revel in the very exuberance 
of infantile life. Here, the husband finds rest for his wearied 
frame after toiling through the day. The wife, with her little 
world of cares, perhaps struggling with a sigh, is strengthened by 
the thoughts of the happy home provided for her, to inspire love 
and gratitude, and draw forth the sympathy of the pleasant circle, 
formed in that sacred retreat, which shelters her from the world 
and protects her from the strife of many minds. Then be thank- 
ful ; be grateful to God for blessing you with a home. Be it ever 
so humble, there is no place like a happy, cheerful home. 



64 MKS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



POULTRY. 

CLEANING POULTRY. 

Turkeys, geese, chickens, and ducks, are better 
killed the day before we wish them, and during the 
winter they may remain several days unhurt. The 
best way to kill them is to hang them up by the legs 
tied together, and cut the throat with the head hang- 
ing down. They bleed better and die much quicker 
than when the head is chopped on a block and thrown 
down to struggle until lite is extinct. Geese and 
ducks have the finest feathers ; they are picked care- 
fully and never scalded, as chickens are, to make 
them clean easily. Make a paper bag of an old 
newspaper and put it by you to save the feathers 
for beds and pillows, and when they are cured they 
can be packed in bags for use ; sun them often or dry 
them in a moderate oven. Turkeys must have all 
the large feathers picked out, the wings cut ofF to 
the first joint, and then they can be scalded to get 
the smaller feathers off. It is more tedious, but I 
think it much nicer to pick a fowl without scald- 
ing in hot water, particularly before the entrails 
are removed. After it is picked, and singed over a 
blaze or a piece of lighted paper, make an incision 
at the lower part of the breast-bone, and remove 
the entrails ; be careful in taking the gall-bag from 
the liver, as the least particle of that would spoil the 



POULTRY. 65 

taste of the bird. Cut the gizzard open and take 
out the inner skin, clean the heart and liver and 
throw them all in cold water, with a little salt in it. 
Have a nice rag and wash the bird ia two or three 
waters, using a little salt in the last, as it cleanses 
it better. The French prefer poultry rubbed clean 
to having it washed, but I give the manner of 
cleaning it as we are accustomed to in our country. 
^ Cut the feet off to the first joint, and fasten the legs 
in the incision made to draw the entrails out. Tie 
a string around the neck and suspend them in 
a cool place until they are needed for the spit. 
Chickens are often cooked as soon as dressed ; and 
when necessity requires it, wash them in water until 
it ceases to look bloody, and lay them in salt and 
water until you have to cook them. Pay strict at- 
tention to the back and side-bone of all birds, re- 
moving all but the black meat in the side-bone. 

TO FATTEN TURKEYS AND DUCKS.' 

Give turkeys plenty of fresh air, and charcoal in 
their food, and keep them in clean coops. Beef 
suet, chopped fine, hastens the fattening. Pork 
scraps ought not to be given the last ten days, as it 
makes the fat oily and soft. Ducks fed on meal, 
with chopped celery leaves, have a fine flavor ; and 
to fatten them quickly, feed every two hours. 
Never confine a duck to fatten it. Always have 
clean water near them, and feed early in the morn- 
ing and late in the evening. 



66 MES. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



ROAST TURKEY. 

Wash the turkey well inside and out, and see that 
all the pin-feathers are well drawn. Twist a piece 
of paper, light it and pass the blaze over it quickly 
(if you have no blaze in your fire to singe off the 
fine feathers), then wash it off again. Break some 
pieces of cold, light bread in a bowl, put one tea- 
spoonful of salt, half a teaspoonfiil of black pepper 
and tableBpoon&il of butter with a small piece of 
lard, in the bread ; pour over it enough warm water 
to make it up like a dough. Put your tufkey in a 
pot and give it one scald up, then take it on the 
tray and fill it with the dressing made of the bread, 
and rub salt and pepper on it. Fill the craw first, 
and with your kitchen needle, take a stitch through 
it to keep the dressing in. After it is stuffed, 
grease the turkey well with lard, and place it in 
your tin kitchen before the fire. Cook slowly, bast- 
ing it with the juice that drips from it. Turn the 
spit often, and when it begins to look a little brown, 
cook a little faster and turn the spit. After it is 
well cooked, set the kitchen one side, and pour the 
drippings in a saucepan. Stir in a half pint of 
water two tablespoonfuls of browned flour, and mix 
it in the drippings from the turkey ; add a little salt 
and pepper, and send it hot in a sauce tureen to tlie 
table, with the turkey on a large dish, or a chafing- 
pan dish over the pan for hot water, that usually is 
sent with the chafing dishes for beefsteak ; fill the 
pan with boiUng water and it will keep it hot until 



POULTRY. " 67 

all are served. Oysters are often addea to the 
dressing to improve it, and when they are, add a 
little more butter. Celery chopped fine and mixed 
in is very much liked, or a few nice pieces laid on 
it, imparts a nice flavor. Never forget to remove 
the string that you used to sew the stuffing in. 
Serve it with cranberry sauce. 

EOAST GOOSE. 

Wash it thoroughly with salt and water. Prepare 
some Irish potatoes by boiling them nicely and mash- 
ing smooth with a tablespoonful of butter or lard. 
Chop two onions that have been parboiled and add 
them to the potato ; then season highly with pepper 
and salt, and a little powdered sage. Roast it slowly 
at first and baste it with butter or lard ; dredge, it 
with flour just before you take it up to make it 
brown nicely. It will answer to bake dressed in the 
same way, but will require a pint of water in the 
oven or stove pan. When done, thicken the gravy 
with one spoonful of flour rubbed smooth with water 
and seasoned with pepper and salt. Apple jelly is 
nice to serve with it. 

WILD GOOSE AND DUCK. 

Parboil wild geese and ducks with one or two 
carrots placed in them to remove the fishy taste ; 
throw the carrots out, and rub them with salt ; let 
them remain fifteen minutes, then rinse them in 
warm water. Rub them over with lard or butter, 
season with pepper and salt, and roast or bake. They 



68 MRS. Elliott's housewife. 

are seldom stuffed as tame, fowls. Ducks are im- 
proved by covering them with onions before baking, 
and a goose with a little sage. 

GREEN GOOSE PIE. 

After cleaning it nicely from pin-feathers, cut it 
up, and put it in salt and water for an hour or more, 
as you choose. Have a nice soup pot, and line it 
with a nice plain paste. Put a layer of goose, salt, 
and pepper, and then small square pieces of paste. 
Do this until all the goose is in, then put a layer of 
paste over the top. Cover it well with water and 
let it cook three hours slowly. 

TO BAKE A GOOSE. 

Always let a goose hang until tender ; try it by 
putting your thumb under the wing to see if the 
skin breaks easily. Prepare a dressing with one 
cup of bread crumbs, one of mashed potato, two on- 
ions chopped fine, pepper, salt, and sage, with the 
yelks of two eggs. Stuff the goose with this, and if 
not very fat, put a piece of butter or lard in the 
dressing. Rub it all over with lard, sprinkle a little 
flour over it, pepper and salt and bake it slowly 
at first, then quick, until a dark brown. Baste it 
often with the gravy from its fat. 

BROILED TEAL. 

This is a fowl nearly allied to the common wild 
duck, but smaller and more delicate. Split it open 
in the back (and if at all fishy have some carrots, 



POULTRY. 69 

tie them in, and give it one boil up), salt and pepper 
it, and broil on your irons or spider well greased, 
bone side down. Cover it with butter and send it 
hot to the table, and you have a delicious relish. 

CANVAS BACK DUCKS. 

These are a large kind of wild duck, and are con- 
sidered the dish for an epicure. They should hang 
until tender (always use the carrot inside to remove 
the fishy taste if they smell at all like it). Prepare 
some chopped onion, one to a duck, a little scraped 
bacon, a little sage and parsley, with a sprig of mar- 
joram and thyme, salt, and pepper ; put it inside of 
the duck, cover the duck with thin slices of bacon, 
wrap it in white paper and tie it around. Roast, if 
possible, before a brisk fire. If you have to bake 
them, put a pint of water and a small piece of butter 
in the pan, and when nearly done, thicken the gravy 
slightly with browned flour. Wine, added to the 
gravy is very nice when poured hot over the duck, 
with a few slices of lemon laid on the breast after 
it is dished. Worcester or Odenheimer sauce is an 
agreeable accompaniment. Crab-apple or guava 
jelly gives zest to the whole. 

BAKED DUCKS. 

English Hud, or Muscovy ducks can be cooked 
the day they are killed (though better to have 
them cleaned the day before). Mash Irish potatoes 
soft that have been nicely boiled ; while hot put a 
large spoonful of butter or a small one of lard in the 



70 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

potato. Chop an onion fine that has been par- 
boiled, and add it, with salt and pepper to the taste, 
and a little fine powdered sage. Fill the body of the 
duck with this dressing, put a cake of it on the 
breast, and bake them with a large spoonful of lard 
and a little wutor in the oven. 

KOILED TURKEY. 

Prepare the turkey as' you do to bake. Make a 
dressing of bread crumbs, pepper, and salt, with hot 
water and milk poured over to make it soft. Chop 
a little parsley and put in, or fill it with oysters ; fill 
the crop with this dressing. Put it in a pot of warm 
water with a little salt in it and boil it until well done, 
but not so tender as to fall to pieces. A good plan 
is to keep towels to put boiled fowls in, with long 
strings sewed on, so it can be tied around con- 
veniently. Take some of the water it is boiled in, 
put a quarter of a pound of butter in it, rub the 
yelks of six hard boiled eggs smooth and mix them 
in the butter, with one tablespoonful of flour. Give 
it one boil up, and pour it over the turkey, with eggs 
cut in pieces over it. Celery is a great addition to 
the dressing, or a few seeds in the sauce. Always 
boil the turkey hen. 

FAVORITE DISH WITH CHAPEL HILL STUDENTS IN 

OLDEN TIMES. 

OPOSSUM. 

After having the possum nicely cleaned, put it 
in salt and water for six hours. Rinse it well and 



POULTRY. 71 

put it in an oven with weak red pepper water and 
give it one boil up. Prepare a dressing of bread 
crumbs, salt, butter, pepper, and a little sage, if you 
wish to stuff it like a, pig ; if not, put it in an oven 
or stove pan with one pint of water and three nice 
slices of bacon on the possum and bake it. When 
it is nearly done, place small sweet potatoes around 
it and add more water (from the kettle) if it is 
needed, and bake it until well done and the potatoes 
soft. Put butter, pepper, dry sage, and salt on it, 
place it in the centre of a flat dish and put the po- 
tatoes around it. Serve it with Worcester or Oden- 
heimer sauce when it is cold. It is a rich dish, and 
seldom eaten hot. 

BARBECUE OPOSSUM.- 

After the possum is nicely cleaned, rinse it well 
with salt and water and put it in a pot to parboil, 
with a pod of red pepper in the water. Then put 
it before the fire in a tin kitchen, or lay it on crossed 
sticks in an oven, with a piece of fat bacon over the 
top. Mix some vinegar with a little mustard, but- 
ter, pepper, sage, and salt. Make a nice clean mop 
with linen, on a stick, and baste the possum with 
vinegar often ; dip the mop in and rub it all over 
both sides, and bake it a little crisp. 

BAKED CHICKEN PIE. 

Clean and cut up your chickens and put them 
in a pot to stew, covering them with water. Put but- 
ter (large spoonful to two chickens) in it, with salt 



72 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

and pepper. While it is stewing, make a rich puff 
paste with lard and flour, roll out a piece and line 
a baking pan, stir a tablespoonful of flour with water 
and stir it in 'the chicken, then pour it all in the pan 
with the paste in it. Roll out a piece of dough for 
the top and butter it, sprinkle flour over it, and roll 
again ; do this twice, then put it on the pan and put 
pieces of dough twisted across the top and in rings 
between ; stick it well in the centre with a fork, 
press the edges with the fork, and bake it slowly. 
You have, then, a North Carolina pie. 

STEWED POT-PIE. 

Line the pot with paste and then put in pieces of 
chicken with thin pieces 8f j)aste between ; lay in a 
few slices of fat meat, season with salt and pepper, 
cover with water, and stew two hours. 

CHICKEN WITH RICE. 

Take a large fat hen ; put it in a bag with one tea- 
cup of nicely washed rice ; put it in a pot of cold 
water and let it boil two hours ; slip it nicely out of 
the bag on a dish, and cover it with a nice sauce, 
made of butter and hard boiled egg rubbed together, 
some of the water the chicken was boiled in, and 
a spoonful of flour well seasoned with salt; serve 
it hot. If cool, keep the water the hen was boiled in 
and make soup with it the next day. Very nice 
for oyster soup. 



POULTRY. 73 

ROAST OR BAKED CHICKEN. 

Prepare a nice dressing of bread crumbs, butter, 
pepper, and salt ; pour enough hot water over it to 
work it up. Eill the chickens with this (and after 
baking put some on the breast-bone and legs), rub 
them over with lard, and hang up before the fire to 
roast, or put in your oven to bake, with a piece of 
lard and a little water. When done, take them up, 
pour some water in the drippings, dredge it with 
flour, give one boil up and pour a little on the chick- 
ens ; balance in sauce tureen. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Boil two nice large chickens until very tender 
(the day before you wish to use them), take out all 
the bones, and remove the tough skin, and leave out 
the back ; chop the meat fine with a cleaver. Boil 
eight eggs hard, peel them while hot and put in a 
half pint of cider vinegar the hot yelks, rub them 
smooth in the vinegar, then add half pint more, one 
tablespoonful of English mustard rubbed smooth, 
teaspoonful of sugar, same of salt and black pepper, 
tablespoonful of fresh butter melted or two of olive 
oil. Have one pint of chopped celery, or more if you 
like, and work the chicken and celery up with it ; 
chop the white of the eggs fine and add them or not 
as you choose ; add more mustard and sugar if you 
like. 

BOILED TURKEY SALAD. 

Prepare the dressing as above, and chop the white 



74 MKS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

meat of the turkey, and mix with celery as for 
chicken. It is richer and preferred by many. 

SALAD WITH CELERY SEED. 

When celery cannot be had, chop your chicken 
or turkey, and put half the quantity of fine chopped 
cabbage that has been lying in celery vinegar one 
hour, put a few fresh seeds in the dressing prepared 
as chicken salad, and mix in the same way. It has 
been preferred by some at a feast ; a little more mus- 
tard and small dust of cayenne can be added to this. 
White heads of lettuce prepared as the cabbagej an- 
swers, if that cannot be had. 

IRISH POTATO SALAD. 

Take cold Irish potatoes that were peeled when 
hot, cut them in thin, round slices, boil some eggs 
hard, mash the hot yelks in vinegar and season it with 
mustard and salt, with a pinch of sugar ; put them in 
a salad dish, pour the sauce over them, and garnish 
with the white of egg cut in rings. It is excellent 
for a Sunday dinner — particularly with cold roast 
beef. 

FRICASSEED CHICKENS. 

Cut the chickens in pieces, put them in a pot with 
one or two slices of bacon or pork, sprinkle pepper 
and salt on each layer, cover them and let them 
simmer till tender ; then take them out and put in 
a dessert spoonful of butter and same of flour, return 
them and stew a few minutes longer. Spread some 
toast, bread or crackers on a dish, put the chickens on 



POULTRY. 75 

it, and pour the gravy over them. If you prefer it 
brown, pour off the gravy and let it bro^n in the 
pot. 

BEOILEB CHICKEN. 

When you have cleaned your chickens nicely, lay 
them in skimmed milk for two hours, then dust 
them with flour and lay them in cold water. Take 
them out, sprinkle pepper and salt on the inside, and 
lay them open on the broiling iron after it has been 
nicely greased. Cook them nearly done, then turn 
them to brown nicely, put them in a dish, and pour 
drawn butter over them. 

BOILED CHICKEN. 

Clean it whole and lay it in milk two hours ; wash 
it off in clear water and dust it with flour. Put 
them in cold water and boil half an hour (if young 
and tender), then let them stand closely covered half 
an hour in the water, and dress them with butter 
sauce. 

CHICKEN FMED IN BATTER. 

Clean and cut up young chickens, and lay them 
for an hour in salt and water. Make a batter with 
flour, egg, and water with a little milk, put the 
chickens in, and take the pieces up with a large 
spoon and fry in hot lard. 

PLAIN FKIED CHICKEN. 

Clean and cut up young chickens and lay them' in 
salt and water as above. Dredge flour over them, 
put them in boiling lard, cover the spider over, and fry 



76 MKS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

them brown. Take them out when done, put some 
flour in the gravy and stir in as much water as you 
wish, boil it up and pour over the chicken. 

CHICKEN FRIED VPITH TOMATO. 

Fry chicken as above, and just before done, cover 
it with tomatoes that have been stewed and seasoned. 
Cover them over and let them simmer fifteen min- 
utes ; then pour all in a dish together. 

BEEFSTEAK WITH TOMATOES. 

Fry nice pieces of steak cut up the size you 
want to serve, it; before It is done, pour tomatoes 
over, stewed as for chicken. Let them cook and 
serve in a dish together." 

BRUNSWICK STEW. 

Put in your soup pot a nice fat chicken or hen 
(or two half grown), cover it with water salted to 
taste, and let it stew until it begins to look tender 
(the hen will have to be put on earlier than the 
young chickens) ;. cut up one gallon of ripe tomatoes 
and season them with butter, a little onion, small 
cup of sugar, slice of fat bacon, pepper, and salt, as 
you wpuld to stew ; put them in the pot with the 
chicken, and one hour before you serve it, cut the 
grain off of twelve ears of green corn and add to it. 
The chicken should be cooked so it falls to pieces, 
and when dishing it, pick out the bones. Squirrels 
make a nice substitute for young chickens, and 
young duck wUl answer, or young turkey. 



POULTRY. 77 



LOUISIANA SQUIRR-EL PIE. 

Parboil the squirrels in salt and water ; line a bak- 
ing dish with nice pastry, put the squirrels in pieces 
through the pan with a slice of bacon and two hard 
boiled eggs, fill the pan with cream, and season with 
black pepper ; cover it with a crust and bake it. 

FKIED SQUIEEELS. 

After they have been cleaned, hang them up a 
day or night, cut them in quarters, sprinkle salt and 
pepper over them, with a little meal or flour, and fry 
them in hot lard. Take them out and make a little 
thickening with flour and cream or milk, and stir it 
a few moments in the drippings they were fried in, 
with sprigs of parsley scalded in it. Pour the gravy 
over them and then the parsley. 

SQUIRREL BARBECUE. 

Parboil the squirrel, and lay it in a spider with a 
piece of butter, and turn it over often. Have some 
vinegar and mustard well rubbed together with a 
little salt and pepper and a pinch of sugar. When 
the squirrel begins to look cooked, pour this over it 
and turn it frequently until as brown as you wish. 
One gill of vinegar, teaspoonful of mustard and 
fourth of a teaspoon of sugar, pinch of salt and pep- 
per to one squirrel. 

BROILED SQUIRREL. 

Parboil the squirrel whole for a few minutes, • 



78 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

grease the broiling iron, put it on and turn it often 
over a hot fire. Season drawn butter with pepper 
and salt, and moisten the squirrels with it. No gravy. 

MACARONI WITH BEEF. 

Stew four ounces of macaroni with a large onion 
in milk, line a baking dish with it and cover it with 
grated cheese ; slightly broil pieces of beef and sea- 
son them high ; fill the dish with layers of maca- 
roni, beef and cheese. Cross the macaroni over the 
top and put bits of butter over it. Bake it slowly 
until a light brown. This is very nice. 

VERMICELLI AND SEMOLINO. 

These are much used to thicken soups and are 
preferable to macarcftii for that purpose. 

ViTELSH RABBIT.. 

Cut some nice cheese up fine in a saucepan well 
greased with butter, stir it until it melts ; beat up 
five eggs and stir it in ; then put a teaspoonful of 
made mustard and a gill of wine in it, and stir it a 
few minutes longer. Toast some bread and spread 
it over it. 

CHEESE STEW. 

Cut up some nice cheese and put a little ale with 
it and a small piece of butter, and stew it until 
all is melted. Serve on toast. 

ROAST CHEESE. 

Mix grated cheese, yelk of egg, and bread crumbs 



POULTRY. 79 

together, season to taste, spread it on bread with 
bits of butter, and brown it in an oven. 

MACARONI. 

Boil your macaroni in half milk and water until 
very tender ; take it out and put it in a baking pan 
with a layer of that and one of grated cheese until 
it is full, put bits of butter over the top and bake it 
a pretty brown. Season it with salt and a little 
pepper. 

TO STEW MACARONI. 

Put as much macaroni as you want for dinner 
in cold water ten minutes ; wash it out and put it in 
tepid water in a saucepan. When it is soft, drain it 
out and nearly cover it with milk. Add salt and 
cayenne pepper to your taste, with a dessert spoon- 
ful of butter and teacup of grated cheese ; stir it 
over the fire a few minutes, then put it in a baking 
dish, put bread crumbs over the top, and let it 
brown in an oven. Take it out as soon as it 
browns, and keep it hot over the kettle. 

MACARONI PIE. 

Stew the macaroni tender, put a layer in the 
bottom of a baking dish, then some grated ham, 
with bits of butter, then macaroni and some pieces 
of wild duck, birds, or squirrels that have been 
stewed and the bone taken out ; put the gravy with 
it and bits of butter, put another -layer of mac- 
aroni crossed over the top, season a cup of cream 
with pepper and salt and pour it over the pie ; put 
a puiF paste on and bake it. 



80 MRS. Elliott's housewife. 

Seek employment ; it strengthens mind and body, and matures a 
character that will shine bright and beautiful in moral excellence 
and active virtue. The Author of every good and perfect gift 
gave us six days for labor and the seventh for rest. He would not 
have so ordained, if He had not known it was for our good and 
would enable us to resist the temptations of Satan " who finds mis- 
chief for idle hands to do." " He created mind and matter, the soul 
and the body, gave them vitality and beauty and laws for their 
government, and stamped on them His own image, the sense of 
duty, and the instinctive dread of responsibility." Listless minds 
and idle hands invade and violate the rules and precepts of polit- 
ical economy no less than "the order and laws of morality and 
religion. 

" Work for some good, 
Be it ever so slowly, 
Cherish some flower, be it ever so lowly, 
Laborl All labor is noble and holy ! " 



CURED MEATS, ETC. 81 



CURED MEATS, ETC. 

TO CURE SCOTCH HAMS. 

Procure mutton, pork, or beef hams, and take 
the bones carefully out. (If beef, get the joint 
called the buttock and have it cut pretty far down, 
taking out the bones and sinews with as little cut- 
ting as possible.) Mix equal quantities of sugar 
and molasses, and smear the meat over with it to 
stand thirty hours. Then make a pickle of salt and 
water strong enough to bear an egg, with two 
ounces of saltpetre dissolved in it. Put the meat in 
this pickle for nine days^ and then add two ounces of 
saltpetre to the pickle. Keep it in five days longer, 
and then hang it up for twenty-four hours. After 
this, roll the meat in a mixture of ground white 
pepper and half an ounce of cinnamon; tie it up 
tightly in a round form. Cut slices from this as 
you want it to boil or broil. Keeps well and is a 
delightful relish. Venison hams can be cured the 
same way. 

Save fresh meat bones, pound them on a large 
stone, and mix with grain to feed hens. 

TO TRT lAKD. 

Take the leaf fat from your fresh pork, when 
cutting up to cure for bacon, cut it in squares an 



82 MES. klliott's housewife. 

inch thick, and put it in a large iron pot over the 
fire, and cook it until the pieces are a light brown. 
Be careful never to have a blaze under the pot. 
Strain it through a colander, in tin lard stands, with 
a coarse cloth over the top of the stand. Drain it 
in another vessel, and then press the pieces of meat 
for common purposes. The pieces are generally 
saved to make crackling bread. 

TO MAKE COMMON LAKD. 

Take the flabby pieces of meat that are not fit to 
be salted. Put them on the fire with a half pint of 
water and slowly cook it until the meat looks done. 
Strain it out and set it in a cool place. If allowed 
to freeze, it will lose the strong taste. 

OHITTEELINGS. 

This dish is a great favorite on plantations, and 
should be carefully prepared. After they are emp- 
tied and nicely cleaned, turn and scrape them and 
put them in warm water. After soaking all day in 
that, put them in salt and water to soak for two 
days. Then wash them out nicely in warm water 
again. Select out what you want for sausages and 
then plait the balance and boil them until perfectly 
tender. Sprinkle a little salt over them when hot, 
and put them in a jar for use, and cover them with 
melted lard or vinegar as you prefer. 

hog's-head cheese. 
Put hog's heads in salt and water for two days, 



CUBED MEATS, ETC. 83 

then wash and scrape them clean, and boil until all 
the bones come out. Take it up, pick all the bones 
out and chop it fine ; season it with sage, pepper, salt, 
and a little cayenne, with a small spoonful of spice. 
Put it in a cloth or a tin pan, cover it, and put heavy 
weights on to press it. When cold, take it out of 
the mould and cover it witlk vinegar. Cut it in slices 
for the table as cold souse, or beat it up and fry it, 
with or without batter. 

beef's-head cheese. 

Split the head in half, take out the eyes, and 
soak it all night ; then boil it tender and make it as 
hog's-head, or put it in the liquor after the bones are 
taken out. Season high and stew it until all the 
water is out, then pack it tight in a jar and press it, 
and keep it to slice for supper. 

CRIPPLE. 

Take two hog's faces, boil them until the meat 
leaves the bone, put it in a colander, pick the meat 
from the bone, then strain the liquor and put it back 
in the kettle with the meat, and if not enough to 
cover it, add boiling water. Add pepper and salt to 
your taste, one tablespoonful of ground allspice, same 
of cloves, marjoram, and thyme ; boil it fifteen min- 
utes after it commences to boil, then thicken it with 
buckwheat or seconds sifted fine. Pack it in a jar, 
and when cold, cut it in slices to fry. This was 
given me by a lady from Baltimore as one of her 
favorite dishes. 



84 MEs. Elliott's HorsEWiFK. 



Bettie's sausages. 
Put six pounds of lean and two of fat pork to- 
gether and grind it in a sausage grinder, or chop 
it fine with a cleaver. Put it in a tray with four 
tablespoonfuls of salt, same of black pepper, six of 
powdered sage, and twe of red pepper. Mix 
thoroughly and keep it in a cool placej 

BOLOGNA SAUSAGES. 

Chop veal, pork, and ham fine, season with pepper, 
salt, and sweet herbs. Prepare beef chitterlings by 
soaking them three days after they have been nicely 
cleaned, changing the water every day; then put 
them in tepid salt and water twenty-four hours, 
scrape them the second time, and wash them out in 
cold water: After they are stuffed with the meat, 
boil them tender and dry them. 

GAME. 

Birds may be preserved several days by washing 
them clean after being picked and dropped in 
boiling water long enough for the water to pass 
through, and then salt them. If any game is taint- 
ed, wash it in vinegar and cook it, and it will not be 
discovered. Broil, fry, and bake birds as you fancy. 
Always parboil ducks, geese, or any game that 
smells fishy, with carrots inside ; remove the car- 
rots and when cooked the smeU will not be per- 
ceptible. 



CUBED MEATS, ETC. 85 



TO CLEAN BEEF TRIPE. 

Rinse it clean in cold water, put it in a tub, 
sprinkle lime over it and cover it with tepid water, to 
stand four hours. Then scrape it and if it does 
not clean easily, sprinkle a little more lime on it and 
let it remain an hour longer. Scrape it nice and 
clean and wash it in several waters ; put it in salt 
and water for three days, changing it the second 
day. If you want it very white, after you take it 
from the salt and water and rinse the salt off, lay it 
in buttermilk to whiten for four hours, then wash it 
clean, and cook as you hke it. 

LOUISIANA DOUBE. 

Take a round of beef and make incisions in it 
with a knife or sharp stick ; stuff them with thyme, 
onion, parsley, and red pepper. Put two tablespoon- 
fuls of lard in a kettle just large enough to hold 
the beef, put it in and let it fry slowly for three 
hours over a slow fire, frequently turning it. 
When it has been cooking three hours, put one 
spoonful of lard in a separate vessel and thicken it 
with browned flour. After it has browned, pour one 
quart of boiling water to it and pour that over the 
beef; let it cool slowly all day until the jelly con- 
geals. When cold, keep it one day in vinegar and 
stick it with cloves, and you will have a delicious 
relish for tea or lunch. 



86 MRS. Elliott's housewife. 

A FKICANDEAU OF BEEF. 

Take a nice piece of lean beef, lard it with ba- 
con, season with pepper, cloves, mace, allspice, and a 
clove of garlic. Put it in a stew-pan with a pint of 
broth, a glass of white wine, a bunch of parsley, 
sweet herbs, a shallot, four cloves, pepper, and salt ; 
stew it until perfectly tender, and cover it close. 
Skim the sauce and strain it and let it boil until re- 
duced to a g]a;ze ; glaze the larded side with this and 
serve the meat with sauce. 

BEEF KOBART. 

Take thin slices of a sirloin of beef, fry it in but- 
ter a few minutes, then put it in a stew-pan with 
some gravy, a shallot, anchovy essence, mushrooms, 
and oysters ; thicken the gravy and serve with fried 
sippets of bread. 

ENGLISH STEW. 

Cut up cold beef or any fresh meat in slices ; pep- 
per, salt, and flour them and lay them in a pan ; 
sprinkle pickled cucumber or cabbage cut fine over 
the meat. Stir one teacup of water, a little vinegar, 
the pickle, and half a teacup of catchup together ; 
pour it over the meat, and cook in the stove or oven 
half an hour. 

BROWN STEW. 

Cut up some pieces of beef or cold meat of any 
kind and season them highly with cayenne, black 
pepper, salt, and butter ; dredge a little flour over it. 



CURED MEATS, ETC. 87 

Put in a saucepan a spoonfiil of lard, and when it is 
warm stir in a spoonful of flour ; stir it over the 
fire until it browns. Put the meat in with a little 
chopped onion, marjoram, and thyme ; set it in one 
corner, and let it stew slowly half an hour ; then put 
a little boiling water on it and let it cook five hours. 
This is a Louisiana stew. 

TO STEW AN ox TONGUE. 

Salt a tongue with saltpetre and common salt for a 
week, turning it every day ; then boil it until tender 
enough to peel. Always take the root off" before it 
is salted. Stew it in gravy and season with tomato, 
sage, cayenne pepper, a few cloves, and mushroom 
catchup if you like, and stew it until perfectly done. 

SPICED BOUND OF BEEF. 

Take a nice round of beef and rub it well with 
three tablespoonfiils of saltpetre, same of sugar, two 
teacupsful of salt, and one of ground allspice and 
cloves mixed. Put it in a vessel as near the size as 
you caiT. As soon as the pickle forms, turn it over 
every day. Let it remain three weeks before 
using it. When you cook it, put cross sticks in the 
bottom of the pan or oven to prevent its touching. 

COLD PICKLE FOR BEEF. 

In hot weather it is good to have a nice pickle 
always- ready to drop beef in, particularly if yo.u 
have not an ice-house convenient. Mix in two 
gallons of water half a gallon of coarse salt, one 



88 MRS. Elliott's housewifk. 

tablespoonful of pulverized saltpetre, and one quar- 
ter of a pound of brown sugar. If a scum arises 
after standing a week, give it a scald up, carefully 
removing the scum. Strain it in the vessel you keep 
it in, and when cold add a little more saltpetre and 
sugar. Before putting fresh meat in cold pickle, 
give it one scald in boiling salt and water, and drop 
it in hot. I know this to be good from experience. 

MEAT JELLY. 

Three ounces of gelatine, four eggs, tablespoonful 
of salt, half a glass of brandy or wine, one quart of 
cold gravy or soup, and a little pepper. Mix well, 
boil ten minutes, strain and set it on ice. 

MRS. W.'S FRENCH STEW. 

Put four ounces of salt pork cut small in a stew^ 
pan, with some parsley, thyme, onion or a clove of 
garlic, sweet basil, a few cloves, and two or three 
carrots cut in rings. Let it simmer a few minutes ; 
then, after having covered the beef with a little gravy 
mixed in half wine and brandy, place it in a moderate 
oven with rings of onion over the top and paste 
around the sides and top. Cook it from six to eight 
hours, pour the gravy over it, and you have a rich, 
nice stew that improves common beef. 

MRS. W.'s BAKED BEEF. 

. Season a nice piece of beef with butter, pepper, 
salt, and slices of onion rubbed over it. Put it in a 
pan or oven with one quart of water ; grease a piece 



CURED MEATS, ETC. 89 

of paper and cover the beef well with it to prevent 
its baking hard. Baste it often over the paper, and 
remove that and replace a fresh piece if it scorches. 
Serve with Odenheimer sauce. 

MRS. W.'S HAM. WITH JELLY. 

Soak a ham twenty-four hours. Cover it with 
onions, carrot, parsley, thyme, celery, and one or 
two cloves ; pour half a pint of wine over it, and put 
it in a towel fastened around tightly. Cook it five 
or six hours in a kettle of water, cold when first 
put on. When done, remove the towel, put it in 
a dish, and put meat jelly all around it, with carrots 
and turnips cut fancifully after being boiled, and 
placed over the ham. 

• 

TO COLLAK BBEAST OF VEAL TO EAT HOT. 

Bone the veal ; take some thyme, marjoram, salt, 
pepper, nutmeg, a little mace, shred suet, crumbs of 
bread, and a score of oysters. Beat all these in a 
mortar to mix them together, strew the mixture 
thickly over the veal, then roll it up into a collar, 
seW it tightly in a cloth, and boil it three hours. 
Serve it with white sauce and force-meat balls. 

VENISON. 

Wash it well with milk and water and dry it in 
a cloth, till there is not the least damp remaining ; 
then cover every part with ground pepper and you 
can keep it several days, to roast or fry. Cook it as 
you do lamb, and eat jelly with it. If you wish to 



90 MRS. Elliott's housewife. 

stew it when cold, put some of the gravy in a stew- 
pan with a little wine, currant jelly, and lemon juice, 
with a little flour. When it is hot drop the veni- 
son slices in and heat it through. The steaks are 
nice broUed or fried with butter and eaten with jelly. 

MUTTON TO EAT LIKE VENISON. 

Take a fat loin of mutton, hang it for three days, 
and then bone it ; rub it with sugar, a glass of port 
wine and some vinegar and let it remain four days. 
Then wash and wipe it dry, season it with pep- 
per and salt, and put half a pound of butter on it. 
Put it in a dish with crust around the edge, cover 
it with a thick crust and bake it in a slow oven. 

TURKEY SALAD. 

Prepare a dressing of four eggs beat very light, 
boil two cups of vinegar with a piece of butter size 
of a goose egg ; when the butter melts stir in the 
eggs. Continue to stir until it boils, then add one 
tablespoonful of mustard, one of sugar, teaspoonful 
of salt and pepper. When it is cold pour it over 
a turkey that has been chopped up fine. 

CROQUETS. 

Chop very fine cold fowl or any fresh meat. Beat 
light several eggs (in the proportion of three or four 
to a chicken), mix together and season highly with 
pepper, butter, and salt (a little pickle cut up is an 
improvement), make into lady fingers, dip in beaten 
yelk of an egg, rub in grated bread crumbs, and fty 
a light brown. 



CUBED MEATS, ETC. 91 



MUTTOX CUTLETS. 

Season with pepper and salt and lay them into 
melted butter ; turn them often, then dip them in 
bread crumbs and broil over a clear fire, or fry them 
in hot lard. 

TO BONE A TURKEY. 

Take a sharp thin knife and carefully remove the 
flesh from the bone of the wing, scraping it down- 
ward as you proceed without cutting it to pieces. 
Do not tear or break the skin. If any breakages, 
sew them up before cooking. Loosen the flesh from 
the breast-bone next, then the back and thighs. 
Draw the skeleton by the neck from the flesh, as 
the hand from a glove, and then restore the mass to 
its original form by hard stuffing with force-meat, or 
any stuffing you prefer. Bake it two hours and 
tastefully cover it with guava or currant jelly. 
Stew the giblets until done in half pint of water, 
cut them fine, beat the yelks of three eggs, stir it in 
the water with a gill of wine, pour it over the giblets 
in a sauce tureen and send it as an accompaniment. 
Sprigs of curled parsley, dipped in hot water, may 
be put between pieces of jelly around the dish. 
This was a favorite dish at Elizabeth City parties. 

SAUCE MAYONNAISE. 

Put into a quart bowl the yelks of two fresh 
eggs, with a little salt and cayenne. After they 
are stirred well together, add one teaspoonfiil of 
best salad oil, and stir it until it looks like cream. 



92 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

with a half pint of oil slowly added. After it is 
well mixed and no oil visible, stir in two table- 
spoonfuls of sharp vinegar and one of cold water. 
This was a favorite dressing for boned turkey and 
salads of a particular friend ten years ago in Eliza- 
beth City. 

ANOTHER PICKLE FOK CORNED BEEF. 

Put six gallons of water on the fire with three 
ounces of saltpetre and when it is dissolved and the 
water boiling, dip your beef, piece by piece, into 
the boiling altpetre water, holding it for a few 
seconds only in the hot bath. After it has all been 
immersed and becomes cool, pack it in a clean cask. 
Put nine pounds of salt, three pounds of brown su- 
gar, one quart of molasses, and one ounce of pearl- 
ash in the water with saltpetre in it, and boil it, care- 
fully removing the scum the molasses and sugar 
causes to rise. Dipping it in hot saltpetre water 
contracts the surface by closing the pores, and pre- 
vents the juices from the meat going out into the 
pickle. Beef cured in this" manner preserves its 
color, and cuts almost as juicy as a roast. 

TO FRY CHIPPED BEEF. 

Chip one pound of dry beef that has been cured 
by the above recipe and hung to dry ; parboil it five 
minutes (in cold water when you first put it on), 
drain the water fcom the beef ; place it on the fire 
with a large lump of butter, dredge it with flour 
until covered ; pour on a pint of rich milk, stirring 



CUBED MEATS, ETC. 93 

with a spoon until it thickens, and send it hot to the 
table. 

TO COOK calf's liver. 

Cut the liver in slices and fry it in butter ; when 
done, take it out and put it in a saucepan, dredge 
flour over it, pour on a glass of claret wine with 
four small onions chopped, little parsley, pepper, 
and salt ; let it boil briskly until the sauce is done, 
and serve it hot. 

TO COOK beef's heart. 

Clean the heart nicely and cut the inside out, and 
chop it fine ; mix it in a force-meat with bread 
crumbs, onion chopped fine, and a little chopped 
bacon. . Fry it in butter partly done, then season it 
with pepper and salt, add one pint of rich gravy, 
with one carrot cut fine, and stew it nearly dry. 
Take it out, put it in a pan, stir the yelks of three 
eggs with it, sprinkle bread crumbs over the top and 
bits of butter, and put it in an oven to brown. Boil 
two eggs hard, slice them, and cover the top with 
them when sent to the table. If you like spice 
with meats, you can use a small quantity of cloves 
and nutmeg with it. 

SCOTLAND NECK SAUSAGE MEAT. 

Twenty pounds of meat, fat and lean mixed, 
seven tablespoonfiils of salt, four of black pepper, 
two of sage, one of red pepper, and» one teaspoonfiil 
of saltpetre. 



94 MES. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



GIBLET STEW. 

Take the pinions of turkeys or geese, cut them 
in two parts, the neck in four pieces, slice the gizzard 
and liver, and put it in two quarts of water, with 
some pepper, salt, maijoram, an onion, some catch- 
up, and an anchovy. When they are tender, stir 
in one spoonful of cream and thicken it with flour 
and butter. 

ONION SAUCE. 

Boil the onions, chop them on a board, add butter 
and cream, give it one boil, and pour it hot over 
ducks or anything you like. 

TO COOK PIGEONS OR PARTRIDGES. 

Fry the birds in butter or lard until slightly 
browned. Take them out and fiy some onions cut 
in four pieces a short time in the gravy. Put them 
in a stew-pan with the gravy and enough hot wa- 
ter to cover them. Pepper and salt and cook them 
one hour. This way is much liked by persons that 
love onions. Add two tablespoonfiils of flour to the 
gravy half an hour before you wish to serve it. 

TO SMOTHER BIRDS. 

After they are nicely washed, and split open, put 
them in boiling water for ten minutes. Then sea- 
son them highly with salt, pepper, and a little mus- 
tard mixed thin with vinegar. Put a little wa- 
ter and one dessert spoonful of butter to one bird, in 
an oven or stove pan, and sprinkle a little flour in it 



CURED MEATS, ETC. 95 

and stir it until it is mixed. Then put the birds in, 
cover them, and let them simmer slowly nearly two 
hours, turning them often until nearly done ; sprinkle 
a few bread crumbs over, and brown the top, and 
when dished, pour the gravy over them. 

BIKD PIE. 

Take young pigeons, robins, or any small birds, 
and stew them with butter, pepper, and salt until 
tender. Line a baking dish with nice paste and 
partly cook it, then place the birds in, pour the 
gravy over, add the yelks of hard boiled eggs, cover 
it with a crust nicely trimmed on the top, and bake. 



MKS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



VEGETABLES. 

CAROLINA SWEET POTATOES. 

Pare off the specks, wash them nicely and put 
them in an oven or stove pan with a little water 
(one teacupful). Cover them and bake in a slow 
oven at first and then quickly. They are delicious 
baked slowly in a large brick oven. Some persons 
bake nearly a barrel in this way and warm them as 
they are wanted, or eat them cold with a glass of 
milk. 

SQUASH. 

Peel, the squashes, if old, and cut them in quarters, 
put them in the pot with a piece of meat and boil 
to mash up, or put them in a saucepan with bits of 
meat, and as they cook mash them and stir often. 
If boiled, stir some cream in them and put black 
pepper over the top. 

WINTER SQUASH. 

Cut them up and stew them with pieces of meat, 
or parboil them, mash, season with cream, pepper, 
and salt, and bake them. Somp persons like a lit- 
tle onion mixed with squash before it is stewed or 
baked. 

CAULIFLOWER AND BROCCOLI. 

These vegetables are not much used ; generally 
cooked in salt and water, and dressed in cream or 
butter with pepper. 



VEGETABLES. 97 



STUFFED CABBAGE. 

Parboil a nice cabbage whole, tie it in a towel, and 
fasten it tightly. Then drop it in with a nice ham 
boiling for twenty minutes. Take it out and plunge 
the cloth with it in cold water, and let it stand to 
cool. Untie the cloth carefully, lay it open, and 
take the heart out with a piece of the stalk ; do 
not disturb the upper leaves. Save the piece you 
cut out. Make a dressing of it mixed with bread 
crumbs, cayenne pepper, one or two whole spices 
and black pepper, a few celery seeds, yelks of two 
hard boiled eggs and butter. If you have a steamer, 
put it in for half an hour over boiling water on the 
fire, carefully fitting the piece of stalk in where you 
cut the heart out. If no steamer, wrap it in the 
towel and boil it fifteen minutes. The flavor of 
the ham improves- it, and some use it instead of but- 
ter, when it had to be parboiled in clear water. 

RADISHES. 

This root must be placed in cold water until 
wanted, and then put on the table in glasses to eat 
with salt. They are very good cut in round slices 
and put in good vinegar for an hour or two. 

WATER CRESS OR PEPPER GRASS. 

Wash clean and put it in salt and water and 
send it to the table with other salads. 



MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



TUKNIPS. 

Boil turnips peeled and cut in quarters when you 
want to mash them. They are very good boiled 
with corned beef and sent in around the dish 
nicely mashed and formed in a roll, with black 
pepper on the top. 

SUCCATASH. 

Take one quart of Lima or butter beans and put 
two quarts of green corn with it. Cover them 
with water and let them stew an hour or more ; 
then season highly with butter, pepper, and salt, 
and serve hot in a covered dish, 

CABBAGES. 

Pick all the outer leaves off and quarter the 
head ; put it in a bag made for the purpose, and two 
hours before you wish it, put it in with a ham that 
has been boiling and let it boil one hour. Take it 
out, dip the bag in cold water, and return it to the 
pot after it is cold, and boil again until wanted. I 
always used thin cotton bags for vegetables and 
found them very useful. If cabbage is to be boiled 
without meat, put red pepper in the water, and 
salt, and serve with butter, or a nice gravy made 
from cold ham essence. 

BEETS. 

These should always be boiled in a separate ves- 
sel from other vegetabes. 



VEGETABLES. 99 



SPINACH 
Boil this In clear water half an hour. If you 
wish it to look very green, put a small lump of pearls 
ash or saleratus in the water. Drain it well and 
dress it with poached eggs and butter. 

PARSNIPS. 

Boil the parsnips whole in clear water, and then 
split them and put butter over, or mash fine and 
fry in batter like egg-plant. 

POKE-KOOT SPROUTS. 

When this first springs like asparagus, boil and 
dress the sprouts with butter, pepper, and salt. 

SALSIFY. 

Scrape or grate this root, and mix it with bat- 
ter to fry in hot lard as egg-plant, or cut in thin 
round pieces, stew it done, and cover it with cream, 
pepper, and salt. If you have to use milk, boil it 
with a piece of butter and pour it on hot. You 
can slice it lengthways, fry or broil, and dress with 
butter. 

ONIONS. 

Remove the outer skin, and put them in an onion 
kettle. When nearly done, pour off the water and 
add fresh boiling water with milk in it if you have 
it. Pour drawn butter over them. 



100 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



miED ONIONS. 

Cut them in thin slices and season them ; have a 
piece of fat bacon frying to get the juice, take it out, 
and put the onions in and stir until a pretty brown. 

BROILED TOMATO. 

Peel, and take the seed out, cut them tlirough 
the middle, season with pepper and salt, sprinkle 
meal over them, and broil on a warm griddle. 

BAKED WHOLE TOMATO. 

Take large Linden tomatoes, peel them nicely 
with a knife, cut them through the middle, take out 
the seeds and fill the cells with a dressing made 
of fine crumbs, sugar, butter, pepper, salt, and a 
drop or two of vinegar. Fit the halves together 
and tie them with a string. Fill a baking pan 
with these, mix a little sugar and water and 
pour in, and when done, take a large spoon and 
arrange them on white plates or small dishes, and 
they not only look pretty on the table, but are as 
nice as tomato can be made. 

CORN PUDDING WITH TOMATO. 

Cut the corn down the ear, and scrape it down 
with a knife, having only a few whole grains. 
Beat three eggs with a quart of milk and season it 
with butter, pepper, salt, and stir the corn in. Then 
stir in one pint of tomato that has been stewed with 
sugar in it, stir it well, and bake it. You can leave 
the tomato out if you choose. 



VEGETABLES. 101 



CORN FRITTEBS. 

Take twelve ears of half-grown corn, cut the 
grains through with a knife, then cut them from the 
ear. Beat four eggs, mix them with four tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, and thin with one quart of milk. Sea- 
son it with salt and pepper, stir the corn in and drop 
one large spoonful at a time in hot lard, and fry 
them a light brown. Try it and see if it is not like 
oysters. 

TURNIP SALAD. 

Cut this in the last of September when young, and 
boil it well done with fresh corned pork. Put it on 
a dish with the pork in the middle and the tiny little 
turnip roots put all around. This is the way it is 
preferred in the eastern part of this State, and in the 
middle and west, the salad that springs from the 
root that has been covered all winter is used as a 
great dish before spring vegetables are ripe. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Cut this when two inches high, run the knife 
under the ground three or four inches. Put it in 
cold water as you scrape it off". Put it in a bag for the 
purpose and boil it hard twenty minutes or longer if 
required. Put drawn butter over in a covered dish, 
and you have the nicest of all spring vegetables. 
If you want it to grow large, press a large month 
bottle over the first shoot, and press dirt around it. 
It will grow to a larger size and be tender. 



102 MKS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



BAKED TOMATOES. 

Peel and cut up one gallon of tomatoes, put a 
layer on the bottom of a baking dish, then a few 
crumbs of loaf bread with sugar, pepper, salt, and 
bits of butter; do this until the pan is full. Set it 
in a stove or oven and cook slowly two hours. 
Green corn, cut off the ear after the grain has been 
split with a sharp knife, and sprinkled over each 
layer, adds very much to the dish. Do not use as 
much crumb of bread when you put com in and a 
little more butter. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Peel and season them with salt, butter, pepper, 
and sugar ; add a few bread crumbs, and stew them 
slowly one hour. 

SNAP BEANS. 

Take a sharp knife and shave the string off on 
both sides, put them in a bag and boil them two 
hours with a piece of meat, or in plain salt and water. 
When boiled without meat, pour cream over them, 
and black pepper. 

LIMA OK BUTTER BEANS. 

Gather them and put them in salt and water half 
an hour, then put them on in cold water and boil 
them tender; serve them hot, covered with butter. 

FRIED IRISH POTATO. 

Slice the potato very thin and sprinkle a little salt 
over it. Have lard boiling hot and fry them crisp. 



VEGETABLES. 103 

Some persons sprinkle a little flour or meal through 
a sieve over them before putting in the lard to fry. 
Nice with beefsteak. 

FRIED CUCUMBERS. 

Peel large cucumbers and slice them half an inch 
thick ; season them with salt and pepper ; sprinkle 
meal over them and fry them with hot lard or a 
slice of fat bacon. 

STEWED IRISH. POTATOES. 

Cut up one dozen Irish potatoes in round pieces 
half an inch thick, nearly cover them with water in 
a saucepan, cover it and let them stew until tender. 
Drain off the water and let them steam a few 
minutes, then cover them with milk. Rub a little 
flour in butter, put it in with salt and pepper, and 
when the milk comes to a full boil, pour them out 
in a covered dish. This is a great breakfast dish 
in Louisiana. Cold gravies left from the day 
before are often used instead of milk. 

FRIED CORN. 

Cut enough corn from the cob to make one quart, 
season it with a piece of butter size of a hen's egg, 
pepper and salt, put it in a saucepan with a very 
little water and cook it half an hour, shaking it 
occasionally to prevent burning. 

FRIED APPLES. 

Wash apples, not very sour, take out the stem, 



104 MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

core, and calyx (do not peel them), cut them in thin 
slices, and put them in a frying pan with some butter 
or gravy of baked pork and a little water. Cover 
them with a lid, set them on the stove or fire, and stir 
them occasionally. Sour apples will not fry well, 
they tear to pieces. 

FRIED SWEET POTATOES 

Peel the potato and cut it in slices quarter of an 
inch thick ; sprinkle a little salt on the slices and 
fry them in hot lard, or pieces of fresh meat. Put 
butter over them or not as you choose. It takes 
very little grease to fry them brown. 

TO BAKE NAVY BEANS. 

Boil one quart of beans in three quarts of water 
until they begin to crack, drain the water off 
through a colander, put a piece of pork in the mid- 
dle of a pan and beans all around and under it, 
cover it with water and two tablespoonfuls of mo- 
lasses, and bake it slowly until the pork is done. It 
is not so rich if the pork is parboiled. 

FEIED POTATO CAKES. 

Boil Irish potatoes and mash them fine, season 
with butter, pepper, and salt ; flour your hands, make 
up small rolls of potato, and mash them until quar- 
ter of an inch thick. Fry them in lard or bake 
them brown on a greased griddle. 



VEGETABLES. 105 



IRISH POTATO PUDDING. 

Boil and mash potatoes, season with butter, pep- 
per, and salt, thin with sweet milk, and bake in a 
pan to eat with meats. 

BEET PUDDING. 

Boil beets nearly done, grate them and stir in 
milk, eggs, and a little butter, with one spoonful of 
flour to a quart of milk. Bake in pans. Some 
prefer the beet boiled tender and mashed up. 

TURNIP FRITTERS. 

Boil and mash them fine, mix them in a batter of 
flour, milk, and egg, with a mite of sugar, and fry- 
in lard. 

CYMBLING FRITTERS. 

Peel the cymbling and cut it in half inch slices, 
slightly parboil it in salt and water ; beat up a batter 
with two eggs, a little flour and milk, dip it in the 
batter, and fry a light brown. This is a very good 
substitute for egg-plant. 

EGG-PLANT IN BATTER. 

Peel the egg-plant early in the day, slice it and 
salt each slice ; let it stand until ready to fry for din- 
ner. Then make a batter of flour, egg, and milk, 
pour it over the plant, and fry it in hot lard, taking 
up one piece at a time. Slightly parboil it before 
putting it in the batter 



106 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



EGG-PLANT FKIED. 

Peel, cut, and salt it as above and parboil it; 
then sprinkle meal over it slightly, and fiy in hot 
lard. 

EGG-PLANT STUFFED. 

Boil them whole in salt and water, scrape the in- 
side out and mix with it some bread crumbs, little 
chopped onion, pepper, and salt, with yelk of egg 
and small bit of butter. Stuff the shell with this 
mixture and bake it. 

■TOMATOES SLICED. 

Peel the tomato and cut it through the centre, 
in three slices ; sprinkle white sugar over it, then 
cover with claret wine. Vinegar is often substi- 
tuted for the wine, but does not impart the rich 
flavor the wine does, resembling strawberry. 

OKRA. 

Take young okras three inches long and bo3 
them in water with a little salt, until done ; the 
seeds always look dark when the okra is cooked 
sufficiently. Put them in a covered dish with but- 
ter and black pepper over them, and send them hot 
to the table. 

OKRA FRITTERS. 

Cut the okra in very thin slices, almost as thin 
as a wafer, make a batter of flour, egg, and water, 
or a little milk ; put the okra in with a little salt, 
and fry them in hot lard. 



VEGETABLES. 107 



OKKAS FRIED. 

Cut them in thin cross slices, sprinkle meal over 
them, and fry crisp in hot lard. 

COLD SLAW. 

Shave nicely one head of cabbage two hours be- 
fbre dinner. Put in a porcelain saucepan one pint 
of good vinegar, teaspoonful of English mustard, 
tablespoonful of sugar, teaspoonful of salt, and a 
lump of butter size of a walnut. While this is boil- 
ing, beat two eggs and stir them in. When it boils 
up, take- it oflp, and stir in a teaspoonful of celery 
seed. Pour it hot over the cabbage and work it all 
up together. Put it in a cool place or on ice. 

COLD SLAW. 

Cut cabbage very fine. Boil some eggs hard and 
rub the yelks smooth while hot in vinegar. Add 
mustard, salt, and ciayenne pepper to taste, with 
olive oil if you like, and a few celery seed, with a 
teaspoonfiil of sugar, and stir the cabbage in the 
mixture. Add vinegar if needed to make it moist. 

LETTUCE DEESSED. 

Cut the lettuce fine and prepare a dressing as 
for cold cabbage. Use a little more sugar. 

LETTUCE WITH OIL. 

Rub the yelks of three eggs with one tablespoon- 
ful of olive oil for ten minutes, then stir in a table- 



108 MRS. Elliott's housewife. 

spoonful of sugar, one of mustard, and small bit of 
salt. Have heads of lettuce nicely washed, open, 
and pour the mixture in, or cut it up fine and pour 
over it. 

CUCUMBERS SLICED. 

Put your cucumbei's in cold water until you are 
ready to prepare them ; peel off the green sldn, cut 
them in thin slices with a slicer made for the pur- 
pose, or very sharp knife ; ^ut them in a deep plate 
with salt sprinkled between, let them stand ten min- 
utes ; then turn another plate over the top, shake 
them hard and drain off all the water. Cover them 
with good cider vinegar and sprinkle black pepper 
over the top. Prepared in this way they are easily 
digested. Onions sliced and mixed with them are 
much liked by some. The best plan is to have 
onions sliced and put in a, separate plate for each 
one to add as they like. 

SOUE-KROUT. 

Take a cask with a hole in the bottom, size of a 
bottle cork. Lay cross sticks on the bottom of the 
cask and cover them with grape-vine leaves. Cut 
up fine, sound cabbages in thin slices, cut round, 
pack it in the barrel with a layer of salt on each 
layer of cabbage, nearly to the top. Put a piece of 
coarse cloth that has been soaked in strong salt and 
water and dried, on the top, then cross sticks with 
weights -upon them to keep the cabbage packed ; tie 
a cloth over the top and put gimlet holes around 
the cask to let the air pass through the top. Take 



VEGETABLES. 109 

the cork out of the bottom every week for a month, 
and let the brine run off. Rinse the cloth off and 
add a quart of salt over the fop every time the 
brine is taken off. This will keep a long time, and 
was highly relished in West Virginia during the 
war, when vegetables could not be had. 

TO COOK SOUR-KEOUT. 

Take it out of the cask with a wooden spoon and 
soak it three hours in cold water, rinse it in another 
wafer, and put it on with a nice slice of bacon and 
cook it until the bacon is done. 

TO BOIL IRISH POTATOES. 

Take off a piece of the peel from each end, and 
put them in boiling water with salt in it ; let them 
boil fast for half an hour. Pour the water off and 
cover them closely for five minutes, then send them 
to the table in a covered dish. If peeled, pour but- 
ter over them. 

NEW POTATOES. 

Always scrape them nicely and lay them in cold 
water for an hour. Put them in boiling water with 
a little salt in it and boil fifteen minutes, pour the 
water off, let them dry, and when served put but- 
ter over them- 

MASHED POTATOES. 

After boiling old potatoes, put them in a wooden 
bowl and mash them soft with a potato pestle ; put 



110 MES. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

in butter while they are hot ; pepper, and salt, then 
stir in a little cream or rich milk, and set the dish 
they are served in over hot water until wanted. 

EDIBLE MUSHKOOMS. 

They appear very small at first,are round in form, 
on a little stalk. They grow fast, and the upper 
part and stalk are white. As the size increases, the 
under part gradually opens, and shows a fringed fur 
of a very fine salmon color, which continues more 
or less till the mushroom has gained some size, and 
then turns to a dark brown. These marks should 
be attended to, and likewise whether the skin can 
be easily parted from the edges and middle. Those 
that have a white or yellow fiir should be carefidly 
avoided, though many of them have the same smell, 
but not so strong as the right sort. This, with the 
following recipes for mushrooms, a friend gave me, 
having learned them from Mrs. Hale's valuable 
cookery. 

TO STEW MUSHKOOMS. 

The large buttons are best for this purpose and 
the small flaps while the fiir is still red. Rub the 
button with salt and a bit of flannel ; cut out the 
fur, and take off the skin from the others ; put them 
in a stew-pan with a little lemon-juice, pepper, salt, 
and a small piece of fresh butter; let it simmer 
slowly till done ; then put a small bit of butter and 
flour, two spoonfuls of cream, give them one boil, 
and serve with sippets of bread. 



VEGETABLES. Ill 



TO STEW MTTSHEOOMS AN EAST WAT. 

Cut off that part of tlie stem that grows under 
ground, wash them carefully, and take the skin from 
the top. Put them into a stew-pan with some salt, 
but no water. Stew them till tender, and thicken 
with a tahlespoonful of butter, mixed with one of 
brown flour. 

TO BROIL MUSHROOMS. 

The largest are the best. Have a clear cinder 
fire ; make the gridiron hot, and rub the bars with 
suet to prevent the mushrooms' from sticking ; place 
them on the gridiron with their stalks upwards ; 
sprinkle them slightly with salt and pepper and 
serve them on a hot dish, with a little cold butter, 
under and over them. When they begin to steam, 
they are sufficiently done. 

LOUISIANA GREEN PEA RECIPE. 

Wash the peas and put them in a clean spider, 
cover them up and set them over the fire ; let them 
steam in this way half an hour. Then put in a 
spoonful of butter and two of cream, and serve them 
hot. The flavor of the pea is far better than 
when boiled in water. If they are not soft, let 
them cook a little longer, but not add the butter 
until just before you take them up. 

TOMATO FRITTERS. 

Stew them done and season (as for the stews), 
beat up a batter with egg, milk, and flour, stir the 
tomatoes in and fry them in hot lard. 



112 MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



DRINKS. 

During the late war, many new drinks were sub- 
stituted for the favorite beverages from coffee and 
tea, that could not be procured, and many persons 
confessed they did not consider them as necessary 
to a meal as they had been trained to think. Then 
why should we train children to use them ? The 
effect is stimulating to the nervous system without 
nourishing it. Heat is said to be a stimulant to 
the nerves of the mouth, teeth, throat and stomach, 
inducing constant reacting debility, which, accord- 
ing to the law of the nervous system, is in exact 
proportion to the degree of stimulation. Weak and 
delicate persons, and children, suffer from habits 
that form a love for stimulating drinks, when they 
have to bear the infirmities of the strong. Water 
is the most natural drink, when pure and good. 
Rain water is considered the purest when obtained 
from a cistern dug in the vicinity of a large dwell- 
ing, with conducting spouts, lined with water lime. 
It can be purified by alum being used in proportion 
of two grains to one quart, or through a simple 
filterer, made in a cask of sand and charcoal, with 
a piece of blanket over the top, that is to be re- 
moved and washed every time the cask is refilled. 
When such simple preventives from disease are 



DRINKS. 113 

at hand, there is but little excuse for not using 
them. Good, sweet milk, when cows are properly 
fed, with healthy food, and have fresh air and ex- 
ercise, is decidedly healthy for both adults and chil- 
dren. Delicate infants should be fed from the milk of 
one cow that is fed on sweet food. The decayed veg- 
etables and offal from the kitchen, that has not been 
preserved by keeping it in salt and water, is not only 
bad for the cow, but affects the health of the child, 
from its bad effect on the milk. Every house- 
keeper should give this particular attention. The 
love of coffee is universal. It forms a pleasant bev- 
erage, and those who indulge in it cannot be con- 
vinced of its injurious effects. The immoderate use of 
it is said to produce various diseases, tremor, anxiety, 
palpitation of the heart, and feverishness, and often 
the vision is affected by it. Green and black tea 
are used by many in preference. Persons thin in 
flesh should never indulge in green, from its creat- 
ing vertigo, and being opposed to active nutrition, 
giving rise to sleeplessness and tremor, if strong. It 
sometimes relieves -headache from its sedative in- 
fluence, but is not recommended by physicians as 
highly as the black. Chocolate contains oil, and is 
difficult to digest, but devoid of the disagreeable 
qualities of tea and coffee. Cocoa has less oil 
than chocolate, and its shells, not being so rich, are 
better adapted to weak digestive organs. 

TO MAKE GOOD COFFEE. 

Procure the best and wash it clean, roast it until 

8 



114 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

of a golden brown color, mix the whites of three 
eggs with each pound of coffee while warm, and tie 
it up tightly in a jar. Grind the quantity you wish 
to make fresh every time. Put it in a thin mushn 
bag made for this purpose, drop it in the coffee-pot 
and pour boiling water on it. Cover it immediately 
and boil five minutes. 

COFFEE NUMBER TWO. 

Parch nice clean coffee, with half a teaspoonful 
of lard to the pound, let it toast until you can break 
the grain, stirring it all the time ; grind it as you 
wish. Take a. teacup of coffee and the white of 
one egg, and stir it to a paste with cold water. Put 
it in a tin boiler and pour three pints of boiling water 
to it, put it on the fire and boil it five minutes, 
pour a cupfiil off and back in the top of the pot, 
and let it set a few minutes before pouring it off. 

COFFEE NUMBER THREE. 

Parch your coffee as directed above, grind it and 
put it in a tight tin coffee box: Buy a block tin 
coffee-pot with a strainer. Put your coffee in the 
strainer and pour boiling hot water on it. It is 
clear, needs no egg, and has the pure, rich aroma 
of the coffee. When it has ceased to drip, pour 
off a cupfiil and pour it through the top again, 
to get all the strength from the coffee. Wash the 
pot nicely every time it is used. These pots are 
used in place of a costly urn. 



DRINKS. 115 



COFFEE NUMBER FOUR. 

Pick and wash your coffee, and carefully toast it 
a golden brown {a, coffee roa ter is said to preserve 
the aroma better than the spi er usually used), grind 
it as you need it. Put water on to boil, and when 
hot, put the coffee in by the spoonful, stirring it all 
the time until all is in and it boils up to the top ; put 
white of egg in or egg-shells crushed to clear it, 
boil it ten minutes, then pour a little cold water in it 
and set it aside to settle. Pour it off in the pot or 
urn you use at the table. Use a large cup of coffee 
to a quart of water. 

" She stretcheth out her hands to the poor, yea, she reacheth 
forth her hands to the needy." 

How few mothers in our land of plenty train their daughters to 
practice self-denial, hy giving up what they consider actually nec- 
essary to their comfort and happiness, even for one day out of 
seven, to enable them to administer to the wants of the poor 
around them. It was my happy lot to be trained by a saint 
upon earth, my mother. My gentle, loving. Christian mother, left 
an undying monument, not of gift or stone wrought by human 
agency, but one gilded with Christian virtues so pure and bright, 
that her name, at the head of an incorporated Dorcas society, will be 
handed down to generations yet unborn, and " her children ever 
call blessed, when her praises are spoken." She never forgot the 
poor. From my earliest recollection a well filled plate was sent to 
them daily, from the luxuries in which her family indulged. 
Often have I seen her leave delicacies untasted on her plate, and 
carefully set aside for her evening walk to the poor, who were 
perhaps craving such things on a bed of sickness. 

If any prayer has ever been offered up with true sincerity, it is 
this, that with the mantle of her virtues thrown around me, I might 
have the power to impress upon the women of my day the claims of 
the poor — which are urgent upon them, not only for the well-being 
of moral and social government, but for the spiritual and temporal 



116 MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

welfare of beings who possess immortal souls as well as we, created 
by " the common Father of us all." Hence, " He that giveth to the 
poor lendeth to the Lord ! " Their duty to the poor should be one 
of our first instructions to the young, and the penny or bread never 
denied to charity at the door. Charitable acts will make a happy, 
cheerful home ; encourage them by daily goodness. Be your 
means ever so small, some good may be done. It does not re- 
quire the wealth that perisheth like a flower in the noonday sun, 
to accomplish such acts. It requires instilling in the hearts of the 
young, the love of good deeds and the love of that pure happiness 
enjoyed by those only who seek to make all happy around them 
in discharging daily their duty to their God, their neighbor, and all 
mankind. 



BREAD. 117 



BREAD. 



OARSE BREAD. 

Take one quart of seconds, three large spoonfuls 
of coarse corn meal and a gill of molasses, mix with 
warm water and a gill of hop yeast until it is a 
thick batter, and put it to rise ; when light, bake in 
a quick oven. 

CAROLINA BISCOTT. 

Take two quarts of flour, sift half a teaspoonful 
of salt in it, then work in a large tablespoonful 
of lard, make it into a pliant dough with cold water, 
work it hard, then place it on a break table and 
beat the dough for half an hour ; flour your hands, 
pinch off small pieces of dough, and make them up 
in the palm of your hand into round balls, pinching 
one side together, then put them on your biscuit 
board and flatten them until half an inch thick 
with the rolling pin ; have your spider or oven 
and lid hot enough to brown flour ; place them in, 
add small embers and bake quickly. If done on 
a stove, be sure to have the pans heated and flour 
sprinkled lightly on the bottom. These biscuit are 
not good with soda, and must be worked well to 
make them bake nice and smooth. In Carolina few 
tables for breakfast or supper are set, without these 
hot biscuit. 

MIXED BREAD. 

Put a teaspoonful of salt and a large spoonful of 



118 MKS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

yeast into a quart of flour ; make it up into a 
soft dough with corn meal gruel ; when well risen, 
bake it in pans or a mould. 

BATTEE BREAD. 

Take six tablespoonfuls of flour, three of com 
meal, and a little salt sifted together, make it into a 
thin batter with four eggs and milk. Bake it in tin 
shapes in a quick oven, and send to table hot, to 
eat with butter. 

LOAF BREAD WITHOUT LARD. 

Put a little salt and a coffee cup full of yeast into 
two quarts of flour, and make up with milk-warm 
water. Put the dough to rise, and an hour before 
baking work it over and make it into two loaves. 
Let it rise in a warm oven for an hour and then 
bake quickly. 

tabb's muffins. 
Beat five eggs, sift in one quart of flour, alter- 
nating with one quart of milk; add one large 
spoonful of lard and butter melted, beat hard, and 
bake immediately in tin shapes. 

pocket-book rolls. 
Rub in one quart of flour a dessert spoonful of 
lard, and one of butter, with a teaspoonfiil of salt. 
Add one cup of yeast (or cake of leaven dissolved) 
with a teaspoonful of sugar, and make it into a 
dough, with one cup of milk and three eggs. Do 



BREAD. 119 

this at eleven o'clock ; at four o'clock flour your 
biscuit board and roll the dough out in a sheet half 
of an inch thick; spread butter all over it with a 
knife, then cut it in strips three inches wide and six 
inches long. Roll each end to meet in the middle 
as a pocket-book of olden times, put them in your 
stove pan or oven as you roll them out, and let 
them rise until you are ready to prepare your tea ; 
then bake them and send them to the table hot. If 
properly done you can unroll them and put the but- 
ter inside. They are nice for breakfast or tea, and 
look pretty on the table. 

CRACKEKS. 

Take one egg, one pint of sweet milk, one tea- 
cupful of lard, small teaspoonful of salt, and flour 
enough to make a stiff dough. Rub the flour and 
lard together, then add the egg and milk, add flour 
and knead well ; then add to this half the quantity 
of light dough -reserved from your loaf bread, and 
set it to rise. When light, roll it out an eiglith of 
an inch thick, cut it in squares, prick it with a fork^ 
and bake to a crisp. 

CARAWAY COOKIES. 

Rub two cups of sugar, and half a cup of butter 
together, add half a cup of milk and one egg, with 
one tablespoonful of caraway seed. Mix in one 
spoonful of lard in a quart of flour, work it all to- 
gether, roll it in thin cakes, and bake quick. 



120 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



MUFFINS. 

One quart of flour, three eggs, one cup of yeast, 
one spoonful of lard or butter, and a little salt. 
Make it at night and bake in tins for breakfast. 

SWEET POTATO ROLLS. 

Boil and peel two nice size sweet potatoes, beat 
two eggs and mix in the potato, with a dessert 
spoonful of sugar, small piece of lard and butter, put 
in when the potato is hot. Stir in one teacup -of 
good yeast or one cake of leaven dissolved in cold 
water, then work in flour with tepid water made 
salt to the taste, — three quarts of flour and one pint 
of water make a soft dough, — put it to rise, and 
make it in rolls for breakfast. Eat hot with butter. 

NICE ROLLS. 

Rub four ounces of butter in two pounds of flour ; 
rub smooth one boiled Irish potato and beat the 
whites only of six eggs ; mix them with the potato 
and a gill of good yeast or half cake of leaven, 
work all up in the flour, and wet it with milk ; 
make it a stiff dough and let it rise one hour, then 
make it in rolls and bake in a quick oven. These 
can be made for breakfast by rising early, and 
before baking ; break them as you do biscuit. 

ASH CAKE. 

Stir up meal and water to a stiff dough, make a 
round cake one inch thick, rake out a hot place on 
the hearth and bake it on hot ashes. 



BREAD. 121 



FLOUK ASH CAKE. 

Rub two spoonfuls of butter in a quart of flour 
and make it in one round lump of dough, with cold 
water ; rake open a place on a hot hearth and bake 
it in hot ashes. 

VIEGINIA ASH CAKE. 

Stir up some corn meal with cold water and a 
little salt to a stiff dough, take up one large hand- 
ful, and pat a cake about one inch thick, brush the 
ashes from the hottest part of the fire-place, put 
a colewort (or coUard) leaf on the hearth, lay 
the cake on it and put another leaf over it ; then 
cover it all over with hot ashes, and bake one hour 
and a half. Always let ash cake without leaves dry, 
after it is put on the hearth, before the ashes are 
sprinkled on. This bread is a great favorite with a 
glass of nice buttermilk, and was given me by a 
bachelor in a stage-coach in Bedford County. 

PLAIN CORN BREAD. 

Sift one quart of corn meal in your tray ; put in a 
teaspoonful of salt, make a hole in the middle, and 
work it to a soft dough with one pint of cold water. 
Take it in the hand and make it in a ball, and then 
put it on a hot griddle with a little meal or flour 
sprinkled over it, pat it with the hand to fit the grid- 
dle, and have it half an inch thick. When the under 
part has browned, slip your knife under, and turn it 
quickly ; as soon as the other side is brown it is done. 



122 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

Put it in a plate, and set the plate on the tea-kettle 
to keep hot, until you cook as many as required 
for the family ; send them hot to the table. The 
same dough will make a Carolina joflnny-cake. 
Take the centre board of a flour-barrel head, 
flatten the dough across it and set it before the 
fire, with a stone or flat-iron to support it, cook it 
brown, and cut it in pieces two inches wide, to send 
to the table. 

COKN MEAL MUFFINS. 

Sift a quart of meal, put in one teaspoonful 
of salt, stir it up with one pint of hot milk and 
a large spoonful of butter or lard; when a little 
cool stir in four well beaten eggs ; bake in well- 
greased muffin rings or small tin shapes. 

fannie's sally lunn. 
Beat separately the whites and yelks of five eggs, 
put one teaspoonful of sugar, one cup of milk, one 
cup of butter, one teaspoonful of soda in the milk, 
and one teaspoonful of salt, with the eggs ; then one 
gill of yeast and one and a half cups of flour. Put 
it in a greased pan to rise and bake it in the pan for 
tea. 

bettib's waffles. 

Boil one pint of rice, mix with it two pints of 
flour, teaspoonftil of salt, one tablespoonful of melted 
butter, three beaten eggs, and as much milk as 
will make a thick batter. Bake in muffin rings, 
waffle irons, or small pans. 



BREAD. ~ 123 



MILK YEAST BREAD. 

Put three quarts of flour in a tray, make a hole 
in the middle and put in one tablespoonful of lard, 
one teaspoonful of sugar and one of salt, with half 
pint of milk yeast ; work it up well with lukewarm 
water "to make a pliant dough ; set it to rise. Four 
hours after you put it to rise, knead it over with a 
little flour, make it in loaves, and let it stand two 
hours, then bake ifi a moderate oven. 

BATTER YEAST BREAD. 

Take half a gallon of flour, and work in a dessert 
spoonful of butter, or lard, then make it up 
with the yeast for batter bread. Make it in 
one large pone and put it in an oven in a warm 
place ; put warm ashes underneath and let it rise 
nearly to the top before you put it to bake 

CORN MEAL BREAD. 

Make as above recipe and bake it in small pones. 
It is sweet and healthy. 

NICE LOAF BREAD. 

Make up a sponge at night, with a pint of sweet 
milk, a pint of warm water, one teaspoonful of salt, 
one teaspoonful of sugar, small piece of butter, 
and flour enough to make a stiff' batter. Let it 
rise until morning, then dissolve a piece of saleratus 
size of a grain of corn in boiling water, and flour 
enough to make it mould hard. Fill your pans 



124 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

half full, let it rise until they are nearly fiill, and 
then bake in a quick oven. 

SALLY LUNN. 

Three pounds of flour, warm one quarter of a 
pound of butter in one quart of milk, put one 
teaspoonful of salt, six eggs well beaten and one 
teacup of yeast in it, and ■work the flour up with it ; 
Set it to rise and bake it in tin pans well greased, 
or, for variety, part in a pan ahd balance in muflin 
rings. 

UNBOLTED FLOUR MUFFINS. 

Take one pint of milk, two eggs, and one table- 
spoonful of yeast, add two tablespoonfuls of molasses, 
and flour enough to make a thick batter. Bake in 
muffin rings or shapes. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

Put one teaspoonful of salt into one quart of flour, 
sift it, beat three eggs and put one tablespoonfiil 
of sugar in them ; work a tablespoonfiil of lard in 
the flour, then pour in the eggs and a small teacup 
of potato yeast, made by the recipe in its respective 
place. Make them at eight or nine o'clock in the 
evening, put them to rise, and next morning make 
out rolls and bake for breakfast. 

SARATOGA ROLLS. 

Beat six eggs together, put half a cup of sugar in 
it, one cup of lard and one of butter, then add three 
teacups of baker's yeast from recipe for that. If the 



BREAD. 125 

yeast is at all sour add a little soda. Beat it well 
and stir in gradually one gallon of sifted flour. 
Work it well, making it a soft dough, and put it to 
rise. Two hours before baking, make the rolls out, 
place them in your pans or oven to rise and bake in 
time for breakfast or tea. 

BEAUREGARD BISCUITS. 

Rub a dessert spoonful of lard and one of butter 
into one quart of flour, beat four eggs and put in it 
with one teaspoonful of sugar, a little salt, and half 
a cup of hop yeast. Let it rise six hours, then make 
the dough into biscuits and bake them. If the eggs 
are not sufficient to make a soft dough, use water 
to make it pliant. 

BEAUREGARD BREAD. 

At tea-time, stir a pint of flour and half pint of 
good hop yeast together, and set it to rise in a 
warm place. Next morning at nine o'clock, beat 
six eggs together with a coffee cup of sugar ; work 
a tablespoonful of lard and same of butter into a 
half gallon of flour, put a teaspoonful of salt in it, 
then pour the sponge made of the flour and yeast 
and the eggs in the middle of the flour, and make 
it up into a pliant dough. If stiff, add another egg, 
no water. At three o'clock work it over, make 
it in loaves, and set it to rise until ready to bake 
for tea. Good, hot or cold. 



126 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

MRS. LANDIS'S RUSK. N. C. 

Boil and mash fine, two Irish potatoes with a 
dessert spoonful of lard ; put them in half a gallon of 
flour with half a pint of yeast, and set it to rise. An 
hour before you wish to bake it for tea, break six 
eggs on the dough and put a coffee cup of sugar 
with them ; work all well in the dough, make it in 
loaves, and bake it half an hour in a quick oven. 

PLAIN LOAF BREAD. 

Take one pint of flour and half a pint of good 
hop yeast and stir it together about five o'clock in 
the afternoon ; at nine put one half gallon of flour 
in a tray, put the sponge in the middle of the flour 
with a piece of lard as large as a walnut. Knead it 
all up with tepid water made salt with two teaspoon- 
fuls or more to taste ; work it well, and put it in a 
jar to rise. At four next morning knead it over with 
a little flour, make it in two loaves, and set it in a 
warm place or oven until ready to cook breakfast ; 
then put it to bake, and when done, wrap it in a nice 
coarse towel. If you have no sugar in the yeast you 
use, stir a large teaspoonful in before putting it in 
the flour. My cook never lost one pound of flour 
out of the barrel, with bad bread; and this was 
her recipe, made with the yeast by her name, — 
Aunt Matilda's, — as Southern cooks were always 
called. I give it to her memory. 



BREAD. 127 



MKS. COUTERIER S KTISK. S. C. 

One yeast cake dissolved in a glass of water, 
five eggs well beaten, one tablespoon of butter, one 
teacup of warm milk, two cups of sugar, a little 
gro nd cinnamon, flour enough to make it very stiff. 
Let it rise, and then make into rolls with a little flour, 
kneading as little as possible ; set it to rise again, 
and afterwards bake quickly. 

claea's sally ltjnn. s. c. 
About eleven o'clock in the morning dissolve the 
quarter of a yeast cake with a dessert spoonful of 
sugar, in a little water. Take a pint and a half of 
flour, a heaping tablespoonful of butter, two eggs 
well beaten, and mix with enough rich, sweet milk 
to make a moderately stiff batter ; beat well and set 
to rise till about five in the evening, or an hour 
before cooking ; then beat up well and pour into a 
greased pan; let it rise again till ready to bake. 
Bake quickly. 

FOR HOUSEKEEPEIiS. 

A good plan for housekeepers is, to give orders immediately 
after each meal for the next. 

At tea-time tell yonr cook what you wish for breakfast, and 
give her aU she may need to deposit in the kitchen safe. If she 
has none, nor any good place to keep it in the kitchen, let it be 
put where she can get it in the morning without disturbing the 
duties of your toilet or necessary care of young children. Have 
a measure for your flour, meal, coffee, tea, lard, etc., and require 
her to bring them to you regularly. At breakfast, give orders for 
your dinner, and let her then have what she may require to pre- 
pare it. Haying done this, you will not be disturbed by Eittie'g 



128 MKS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

wanting meal for bread, or lard to fry with, and thus having to 
excuse yourself from a visitor to wait upon your coot, or to 
hurry through a visit because you have not given out dinner. 
After dinner see if you have bread enough for tea, and if not, let 
her have whatever you wish prepared, and you will then, from 
acting wisely, enjoy the evening without interruption. 

MUFFIN BBEAD. NO. 2. 

One pint and a half of flour, four eggs well 
beaten, tablespoonful of lard, coffee cup of yeast ; 
grease your pan, put it in to rise, and when very 
light bake it in the pan. Rub the flour and lard 
together before mixing it. 

MUFFIN BREAD. NO. 3. 

Three pints of flour, one pint of milk, four eggs 
well beaten, tablespoonful of butter, a gfll of yeast, 
and a little salt. Make it at night for breakfast, or 
at ten o'clock for tea. 

MUFFINS. 

Three pints of flour, teaspoon half full of salt, 
"mix it with lukewarm water so stiff a spoon will 
stand in it. Put half pint of yeast in the flour. 
Make it at night, and bake in small pans for break- 
fast. These muffins are a little tough, but sweet 
and healthy. 

MUFFINS. NO. 4. 

One quart of flour, one pint of milk, a lump of 
butter the size of a walnut, a spoonful of lard, and 
two cups of meal. Bake in patty-pans. 



BREAD. 129 



COTTON BREAD. 

One quart of meal, one pint of flour, three eggs, 
and a tablespoonful of lard. Grease a pan, pour in 
the mixture, and bake it. 

MUSH CAKES. 

One quart of meal made iuto mush, one pint of 
flour, and a spoonful of lard ; drop in the oven or 
pan with a spoon. 

MtJTFINS. NO. 5. 

One quart of seconds, three eggs, tablespoonful 
of lard, teaspoonftil of saleratus, and milk enough 
for a stiff" batter. Bake in rings. 

MUFFIN BREAD FOR TEA. 

At twelve o'clock beat four eggs very light (sep- 
arately) stir in a quart of flour, one gill of yeast, 
and a little milk. At four o'clock stir in a table- 
spoonful of melted lard, pour it in a pan, and bake 
in time for tea. 

ANOTHER RECIPE FOR MUFFINS. 

Eight spoonfuls of flour, four of meal, one spoonful 
of lard mixed up with four eggs, and sufficient milk 
to make a thick batter. Bake it in a small pan or 
muffin rings. 

MUFFIN BREAD. 

Beat separately four eggs, stir in them three 
pints of flour, and a teaspoonfiil of lard, with a 



130 MES. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

teacup of yeast, and milk sufficient for a thick bat- 
ter. Make it at night for breakfast, and at ten 
o'clock in the day for tea. Before baking, beat it 
hard ; then with a spoon, drop it in your oven, or 
tin pans for- a stove, as you do corn muffins. 

DROP CAKES. 

Dissolve one teaspoonful of saleratus in a cup 
of cream ; stir in one quart of milk, and flour 
enough to make a stiflf batter. Beat it very smooth, 
then dip your spoon in milk, and place your batter 
at short distances in a buttered pan, and bake them. 

CREAM or TARTAR BISCUITS. 

One quart of flour, with a teaspoonful and a half 
of cream of tartar sifted in it, dissolve a teaspoonful 
of saleratus in water and add to it, then work it up 
with a large tablespoonful of butter or lard. 

TO MAKE BUCKWHEAT OR JOHNNY CAKE. 

Put a teaspoonful of soda in one quart of butter- 
milk, add flour enough to make a thin batter, with 
one egg. If you have not the buckwheat flour, use 
Indian meal, and bake it in a quick oven. 

FRENCH ROLLS. NO. 2. 

One pound of flour and one of butter worked 
together with one egg, a gill of yeast, and as much 
lukewarm milk as will make a soft dough. Cover 
it with flour and put it to rise until light ; flour your 
hands and make it in small rolls and bake in a 



BREAD. 131 

quick oven. These are very nice and rich for tea, 
with invited company. 

VELVET CAKES. 

Take one quart of flour, add a gill of yeast and 
pint of warm milk, mix well, set it to rise for two 
hours, then work in one large tablespoonful of but- 
ter, flour your hands, and make it in small cakes, 
and bake in a quick oven. 

MUFFINS. 

Beat three eggs, add one pint of warm milk and 
a gill of yeast, stir well into it two pounds of flour. 
If your batter is very thin, add a little more flour. 
Butter your rings and bake them quickly. 

YELLOW SULPHUK SPRINGS BREAD. 

The Yeast. 
Boil one handful of hops in a quart of water un- 
til strong. Mix it while hot with a pint of flour 
and put in half a teacup of old yeast. This quan- 
tity will last two weeks. 

3%e Ferment. 
Boil one dozen Irish potatoes well done. Mash 
them without peeling them. Pour the potato water 
over it and stir to a paste ; add as much cold batter 
cake, then a half teacupful of the hop yeast. In 
cool weather it will keep several days; in warm 
weather make it fresh every morning. Then — 



132 MEs. Elliott's housewife. 

To make the Bread. 
Take one quart of sifted flour. Pour half a pint 
of ferment through a colander and stir to a batter. 
Let it stand two hours. Add a teacup of warm 
water and work in all the flour except enough to 
work it over in the morning. Put it in a warm 
place to rise. In the morning, add a little lard. In 
the summer half an hour will rise it after it is made 
in loaves, and an hour in winter. Bake one hour. 

SALLY LUNN. 

Take five eggs, one half pint ferment, same of 
milk, and as much flour as will make a thick hatter 
to stir with a spoon. Let it stand all night. Add 
half an ounce of butter and a little salt. Beat it 
hard and pour it in a pan. Bake it for breakfast 
in a quick oven one hour. 

Clara's cheese toast. 
Put Into a hot pan, several large slices of good 
cheese pared and a small lump of butter. Beat up 
two eggs with salt and pepper, and add to the 
cheese, stirring quickly ; put in a little milk. Have 
ready some thin slices of well toasted bread and 
spread the cheese upon it while hot, and you will 
have an excellent lunch. 

GERMAN TOAST. 

Cut nice slices of loaf bread. Beat up four 
eggs for twelve slices. Dip the bread in the egg on 



BREAD. 133 

both sides, and fry it in hot butter. Never put the 
butter on until you have all prepared. The salt in 
the butter makes it burn quick, and gives the toast 
an unpleasant taste. This is very nice for break- 



MILK TOAST. ' 

Toast nice slices of cold bread and put 'them in a 
covered dish. For six slices, boil half pint of new 
milk with one tablespoonful of butter and pour it 
boiling hot over the toast. Place the cover on im- 
mediately. It is not good cold. 

RISEN SHOKT-CAKE. 

Stir one quart of flour, a little salt, one cup of 
yeast, one teaspoonful of soda and two eggs in 
enough milk to make a pliant dough, at night for 
breakfast, and morning for tea. Next morning 
knead in one tablespoonful of lard and bake it like 
short-cake, on a griddle or in an oven. Cut in 
square pieces. 

Although some of my recipes are given with an 
alkali and acid, which combined evolve carbonic 
acid by a more sudden process than yeast fermen- 
tation, yet I would urge upon all housekeepers a 
return to primitive days, when medicated flour 
was unknown, and the labor of making light bread 
and cakes was preferable to the injurious effect 
upon the health from the use of them. Sal volatile 
will certainly lighten by the disengagement of 
carbonic acid gas, which the gluten of the flour will 



134 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

retain. When using soda, pearlaah, or saleratus 
with sour milk, always wet-the flour with some of the 
milk, and then dissolve the alkali and pour it in. 
The effervescence takes place in the mixture, and 
much of the carbonic acid generated is saved for the 
flour before it is lost in the sour liquid. Soda, 
pearlash, and saleratus may be dissolved in wann 
water, but sal volatile makes light when the gas is 
disengaged by heat, and should never be put in hot 
water ; the heat of the oven volatilizes it, and the 
lightness is induced by the gas expelling. It may 
not be necessary for me to say in this age, yet I 
must, that the most wholesome and nutritious arti- 
cles of food are composed of but few elements, 
simple, unstimulating, and easily prepared. 

SOUTH CAROUNA BISCUIT (MKS. STEWAKT). 

One quart of flour, one large tablespoonfiil of 
lard, a small lump of soda, a little salt, four table- 
spoonfuls of buttermilk. Make into a stiff dough 
with either sweet milk or water, beat well until 
blistered, make into small biscuits with the hand, 
and bake quickly. 

MRS. Stewart's waffles. 
One pint of flour, two large tablespoonfuls of 
hominy, rice, or mush, a half tablespoonful of lard 
or butter. Make into a thick batter with sweet milk. 
If sour milk or clabber is used, add a little soda and 
make the batter stiffer. Bake quickly in waffle 
irons, and send to the table hot, in a covered dish, 
with butter over them. 



BREAD. 135 

CLAEA's BUTTERliftLK CAKES. 

One pint of corn meal or wheat flour stirred into 
enough buttermilk to make a thick batter, one egg 
well beaten, half a teaspoonful of soda and a little 
salt. Fry immediately on a hot griddle, well 
greased, butter them, and send hot to the table. 

VELVET CAKES. 

To one quart of flour add a pint of warm milk 
and a gill of yeast ; stir it well, and put it to rise 
for two hours. Then work in two large table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter, flour your hands well, 
and make the mixture into small cakes ; rub a pan 
with butter, and put them to bake in a quick 
oven. Send hot to the table. 

mSEN BISCUIT. 

Make up a quart of flour at night with a gill of 
good yeast and lukewarm salt and water into a 
pliant dough. Next morning work in a large 
spoonful of butter; knead it well and make into 
biscuits. Place them in your stove pans or oven, 
and bake quickly. 

KISEN SHOKT-CAKE. 

Put a little salt in one quart of flour and sift it ; 
add one cup of yeast, and a teaspoonful of saleratus 
or soda, and two eggs. Make it up with milk, and 
put to rise. Next morning knead in a large spoon- 
ful of lard, and bake it like short-cakes. 



136 MBS. Elliott's housewife. 



STRAWBEERT SHORT-CAKE. 

Rub a large spoonful of lard and one of butter 
in one quart of sifted flour ; put in a little salt, and 
make a dough with cold water. Roll it out in thin 
cakes about the size of a breakfast plate ; put in a 
layer of strawberries with a light sprinkle of sugar, 
then another cake of dough, another layer of 
strawberries and sugar, with a top layer of dough. 
Bake it slowly in an oven or stove, and eat for 
lunch or for dessert, with sugar and butter sauce. 

NICE EOLtS. 

Take one quart of flour, large spoonful of good 
yeast, two eggs, a little salt, and half pint of sweet 
milk. Knead it well, and set to rise. Next morn- 
ing, work in an ounce of butter, make the dough in 
small rolls, and bake them. 

DROP BISCUIT. 

Beat eight eggs very light, add to them one 
pound of flour and one of sugar. When perfectly 
light, drop them on a tin sheet, or spider, and bake 
them quickly. Nice for tea. 

CAROLINA EGG-CAKES. - 

Sift one quart of corn meal, put a teaspoonful of 
salt in it and scald it with half a pint of hot water ; 
stir it until it cools, then break in three eggs and 
continue stirring, and sprinkle in slowly one table- 
spoonftil of flour ; thin it with one pint of sweet milk 



BREAD. 137 

to a thin batter that will run easily ; have your 
griddle very hot, grease it well with lard, and fry 
quickly in small cakes. Serve hot to be buttered 
at the table. 

EICE BATTER-CAKES. 

Boil a teacup of rice very soft ; when cool, stir it 
in one quart of flour ; beat five eggs and stir in with 
lialf a pint of milk. If the batter is not thin enough 
to run as you drop it on the griddle, put a little 
more milk or rice water, add a teaspoonfiil of salt, 
give it a hard beat, bake on a hot griddle well 
greased, and "butter them. Serve hot. 

RICE CORN BREAD. 

Scald your meal, break in some eggs, put in cold 
rice and piece of lard, thin with water and a little 
milk, bake in pans or shapes. 

NICE BREAKFAST CAKES. 

Beat ten eggs, add three pints of milk, a 
tablespoonful of butter, two teaspoonfuls of salt, and 
half a teaspoonful of saleratus. Sift some Indian 
meal and make a thick batter, pour it in tin shapes 
or cups, and bake for half an hour in a quick oven. 
You can make these with buttermilk or milk that 
has been skimmed for butter. Send them hot to 
the table. 

RISEN WAFERS. 

Beat three eggs, add one pint of sweet milk, one 
large spoonful of yeast, same of butter, stir in 



138 MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

enough sifted flour to make it as stiff as you can 
stir with a spoon. Have your wafer irons well 
greased. After it is well risen, put in a small lump 
of the dough, shut the irons together and bake it on 
hot coals ; turn it in a few minutes to bake both 
sides alike. If your irons are weU heated and 
greased, it takes but a minute or two to bake them. 

CREAM GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

Mix one pint of cream and one of sweet milk 
with three eggs and a teaspoonful of salt, make it into 
a thin batter with flour, and bake it on a griddle in 
cakes like buckwheat ; butter them hot. If the cream 
or milk is at all sour, use a pinch of soda to correct it. 

AMES SALLY LtTNN. 

Measure seven cups of sifted flour, and warm a 
pint of milk with half cup of butter in it. Make a 
hole in the flour and stir a cup of yeast, the milk 
and butter, and a salt spoonful of salt, with three 
well beaten eggs in it. After it is nicely mixed pour 
it in pans to rise, and bake it for tea. Be careful it 
does not sour. 

Thorpe's sally lunn. 
Four teacups of warm water, one cake of leaven, 
four eggs well beaten, one large spoonftd of lard, 
half a teacup of sugar, a teaspoonful of salt. Mix 
three pints of flour in it and set it to rise at night. 
Next morning stir in one pint of flour and bake it 
like loaf bread. 



BREAD. 139 



CREAM RENVERSEE. 

Mix three tablespoonfuls of flour with a gill of 
cold milk, and then add a gill of scalded milk. Put 
it in a saucepan over the fire and stir until it begins 
to thicken, then take it off and add four ounces of 
white sugar and the yelks of four eggs, with a tea- 
spoon of lemon extract or any flavor you like. Then 
beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff" froth and stir 
it in the mixture ; place it in a buttered pan or 
mould and set it in a kettle of boiling water to rise. 
After it has risen bake it in a mild oven, and when 
cool, turn it out on a dish upside down. 

CREAM CAKES. 

Ten cups of flour with half teaspoonful of soda 
sifted in it, six eggs beat with six cups of sugar, 
two cups of sour cream, and two of butter worked 
up in a mass. Roll out in thin cakes, cut with a 
tumbler or shape, and bake in stove pans or a mod- 
erate oven. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

One pound of flour, one and a half of sugar to 
sixteen well beaten eggs ; flavor with lemon. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Put a teacup of wheat flour into one quart of 
buckwheat ; sift them together, add half pint of good 
yeast and one small spoonful of salt ; make it into 
a batter with lukewarm water at bed-time, and let 
it rise in a warm place. Next morning, if it should 



140 MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

taste at all sour, beat a pinch of soda in it ; if not 
sour, do not add soda. Have a large griddle very 
hot ; grease it well with lard tied in muslin ; bake 
the cakes fast, butter them, and send to the table 
hot. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. NO. 2. 

Mix one cup of com meal with one quart of buck- 
wheat ; break in two eggs and beat well, adding 
gill of good yeast, teaspoonful of salt, and sufficient 
cold water to make it a proper consistency. Put it 
to rise and bake as above directed. Mix milk and 
butter hot and pour over them. 

BUCKWHEAT IN HASTE. 

Put a teacup of flour to one quart of buckwheat, 
and a large spoonful of yeast powder ; sift them to- 
gether and make a batter with water or half milk ; 
add a little salt. Bake and serve as above directed. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

Beat six eggs veiy light, stir in them two pounds 
of flour, one gill of yeast, small spoonful of salt, and 
Sufficient milk to make a thick batter. Make them 
at night for breakfast, and at ten in the morning for 
tea. Have your griddle hot, grease it well, and 
bake as buckwheat. Butter and send them hot to 
the table, commencing after the family are seated. 

COKN-MEAL BATTER-CAKES. 

One quart of meal, half tablespoonful of lard, pour 
a pint of boiling water on it, and stir until a little 



BREAD. 141 

cool. Then break three eggs in it, a pinch of salt, 
and thin with milk. Bake them on a hot griddle 
and eat hot. 

NICE PUFFS. 

Put one ounce of fresh butter in a quart stew-pan ; 
when hot put in four spoonfuls of flour ; stir it over 
the fire for five minutes ; stir in by degrees, one gill 
of milk boiling hot. When well boiled take it off and 
stir in six eggs, a pinch of salt, a little nutmeg, a 
handful of currants, little lemon peel chopped, and a 
little sugar flavored with orange-flower water. 
Take pieces of the dough the size of a walnut, 
make in balls and fiy them in hot lard until they 
burst, sift powdered sugar over them, and eat with 
wine sauce. 

hettie's puffs. 

Take three ounces of almonds that have been 
blanched and pounded fine, with quarter of an ounce 
of butter and two ounces of loaf sugar ; wet with 
rose-water until a thick paste, spread the paste on 
buttered tins, and bake them in a slow oven. When 
cold, put a spoonful of jam in each and cover with 
whipped cream. 

nena's puffs. 
Roll out puff" paste very thin, cut it into round 
pieces, lay jam on each fold of the paste, rub the 
edges with egg and close them, put them on a bak- 
ing sheet or carefully in the oven, ice them, and 
bake quarter of an hour. 



142 . mbs. elliott's housewife. 

jeanette's puffs. 
Boil one pint of milk with half a pound of batter ; 
after it is boiled add three quarters of a pound of 
flour, stirring the milk and butter in the flour, 
return it to the pot and stir it until it does not stick 
to it. Let it cool, then add the yelks of nine eggs, 
beat the whites to a stiff froth and add them last ; 
grease tins, snow-ball shapes, or cups, fill half fuU, 
and bake quick. 

Nannie's puffs. 
Put in a saucepan half a pint of water, with one 
quarter of a pound of butter, stir it till it boils, then 
mix in four tablespoonfuls of flour. Stir it well 
together and add the beaten yolks of four eggs, 
then the whites ; let ,it cool, and with a spoon drop 
it in boiling lard and fry a light brown. Sugar them 
whUe hot or eat with a little sauce for a plain des- 
sert. 

LARGE HOMINT. 

Pick some ears of white flint corn that is per- 
fectly dry and have it well beaten in a large wooden 
mortar ; put it in a flat tray and toss it about to get 
clear of the husk. Wash it well in one or two wa- 
ters and put it in a dinner pot of cold water, filling 
the pot to the brim. Let it boil steadily forfour 
hours, then wash clean some white hominy or navy 
beans, and put in with it, and boil three hours 
longer. Always have hot water ready to add to it, 
if it begins to boil down before the hominy is soft. 



BREAD. 143 

If put on early in the morning, it will be ready for 
a nice side dish for dinner. Take it up and mash it 
with a wooden pestle, salt to taste and a spoonful of 
lard or butter stirred well in it. In cold weather 
it will keep good four or five days, and is always 
rtice to fry for breakfast or dinner. Mash it well 
and fi.y it in hot lard, and turn it out with a brown 
crust. 

SMALL HOMINY. 

This is prepared at the corn mill. Select nice 
white corn, and have it sent to be ground coarse. 
To prepare it for breakfast, take the quantity you 
wish very early in the morning, wash it in two or 
three waters and skim the husk off that rises, or pour 
the water off carefully with the husk on it ; then 
put in a small iron pot three quarts of water to 
one quart of hominy and boil it till perfectly soft ; 
stirring it every few minutes to prevent its burn- 
ing. Be careful not to scrape the bottom, as a cake 
generally forms that would spoil the hominy if 
mixed in ; that answers for feeding poultry or pigs. 
If it looks dry before it is soft, add a little hot wa- 
ter. Send it in a covered dish to the table, and eat 
with butter or with milk after it is cold. 

HOMINY CAKES. 

Take one pint of small hominy that is cooked 
soft. Mix with it one pint of wheat flour, teaspoon- 
fid of salt, and a little milk with or without eggs. 
Fry them on a griddle and eat as buckwheats. 



144 MRS. Elliott's housewife. 

CORN BREAD (mRS. B.'s). 

Mix three pints of corn meal in one quart of sour 
milk. Add three well beaten eggs, one teaspoonfiil 
of soda and one of salt. Beat it well, and bake in 
pans half an inch thick. » 

SWEET POTATO CORN BREAD. 

Boil soft two large sweet potatoes. Mash them 
while hot with a small piece of lard or butter. 
Work it in finely sifted corn meal until tolerably 
stiff, and then work in enough water to make it a 
soft dough. Let it rise three hours or longer if you 
choose, and then bake it in a spider, or for a stove, 
in a tin pan. 

TO DIVIDE LOAVES OF BREAD. 

Make up dough after the receipt for French 
rolls. As soon as you have worked it well after 
the second rising, divide it as you wish. Cut off 
one pound and roll it round and twelve inches long, 
pointing both ends smoothly. When you have 
shaped it, ta:ke your rolling pin and press it length- 
wise on the middle, and gently roll it untQ the dough 
each side is nearly two inches above it. Have a 
nice kitchen towel floured, and turn it over the 
bread as soon as you take the rolling pin out, and 
set it to rise, smooth side up ; when well risen turn 
the bread over, letting the smooth part go in the 
pan, and bake it. It looks well for a change and 
gives more crust to those who prefer it. The rec- 



BREAD. 145 

ipe for French rolls came from White Sulphur 
Springs, Va., and cost ten dollars. 

CRUMPETS. 

Take one quart of dough from your risen bread 
very early in the morning. Beat three eggs separ- 
ately and mix them with the dough. Then thin it 
with milk and water until the consistency of batter 
cakes ; beat it well, let it rise until breakfast, bake 
them on a hot griddle, butter, and send to the table 
hot. 

SWEET POTATO BUNS. 

Boil sweet potatoes soft, peel them and mash 
while hot, in flour, like bread. Add spice and su- 
gar with yeast. When well risen, work in butter 
and make the dough up in small rolls and bake. 
You can use any quantity, according to judgment. 
One quart of flour, coffee cup of potato, tablespoon- 
ful of sugar, and six grains of allspice with dessert 
spoonful of butter, is a good rule for a small family. 

OXFORD CRACKERS. 

Rub four ounces of butter in one quart of flour, 
make it in a paste with rich milk, knead it well, 
and roll as thin as paper ; cut them out by a saucer 
and bake quickly, to look white when done, 

SODA CRACKERS. 

Rub six ounces of butter in three pints of flour 
that has two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar sifted 
in it I dissolve one teaspoonfiil of soda in a cup of 

10 



146 MKS. Elliott's housewife. 

cream, beat two eggs, and work it in the flour ; use 
milk to make it the proper consistency to roll, and 
add a little salt. 

mCE BATTER CAKES. 

Boil a teacupfal of rice very soft, and let it cool ; 
break four eggs in it, a teaspoonful of salt, and 
thicken it with wheat flour : add enough milk to 
make a thin batter ; grease your griddle when hot, 
fry fast, butter, and send to the table during break- 
fast or tea. 

KICE WAFFLES. 

Nine eggs well beaten, nine large spoonsfiil of 
flour, one teaspoonful of salt. Have a teacup of 
rice boiled very soft, and when cool, beat it in the 
flour and eggs. Add one and a half pints of milk; 
grease your waffle-irons nicely with lard, fill them 
with the mixture, and bake in a hot fire. Butter 
and send to the table covered. 

BUTTEKMILK WAFFLES. 

One quart of buttermilk, three eggs, and table- 
spoonful of lard, half teaspoonful of Soda, flour 
enough to make a thick batter ; fill your irons and 
bake as above directed. 

CRACKLING BREAD. 

Scald two quarts of com meal, and stir in one 
pint of cracklings ; make it a thick batter with cold 
water. Make it in round balls, flatten the tops, and 
bake in a quick oven. 



BREAD. 147 

PASS OVEKS. 

Two cups of flour, two cups of milk, and two 
eggs stirred together with a httle salt and baked in 
patty-pans. 

CORN FKITTEES. 

Grate six ears of corn and mix it with two eggs, 
one spoonful of butter, and season with pepper and 
salt. Fry a light brown, and you have a mock 
oyster. 

SCOTLAND NECK SALLY LUNN. 

One quart of flour, half a pound of butter, one 
gill of yeast, one tablespoonful of white sugar, six 
eggs beaten separately ; make it in a stiff" batter, and 
set it to rise. Use a little milk if the eggs do not 
make it the proper consistency. After it rises beat it 
again, put it in a mould to rise the second time, and 
when light bake it. 

BREAKFAST CAKE. 

Beat five eggs separately, stir in three pints of 
milk and a quarter of a pound of butter, teaspoon- 
ful of salt, and a gill of yeast, with enough flour to 
make a thick batter. Make them late at night, and 
cook for breakfast like buckwheats. 

MRS. lee's bread. 

To one quart of best family flour put one egg 
and lard the size of an egg, two large tablespoonfuLs 
of yeast (by her recipe), one teaspoonful of salt, 
and one of sugar. By this rule, bread can be made 



148 MES. Elliott's housewife. 

and the dough kept good for three days, and suffi- 
cient taken off to bake fresh each day. Mrs. L. 
says, if kept cold in winter or in an ice-house in 
summer it will lie dormant, and may freeze without 
injury. If frozen hard enough to be cut with an 
axe it will not be damaged, and will rise readily, as 
soon as placed near the fire. If made in this way 
to save labor, and a change of temperature causes 
it to rise, it must be worked down immediately. It 
is only in this risen state that it can be injured or 
become sour. 

EGG PONE. 

Take one pint of boiled rice, and when cool break 
six eggs in it. Sift one quart of meal and scald it, 
add one large spoonful of mixed lard and butter, 
and one teaspoonful of salt. Stir the rice and eggs 
in the meal with one quart of milk and bake it in tin 
pans. Send it to the breakfast table hot to eat with 
butter. 

CORN MEAL DROP CAKES. 

Scald one quart of meal and stir a dessert spoon- 
ful of lard in it. When cool break two eggs in, 
and stir in milk enough to make a thick batter. 
Grease a spider or stove pan and drop them in 
from the spoon to bake until brown. Clabber, with 
a mite of soda in it, will answer in place of milk or 
buttermilk. 

" Let your light so shine that others may see your good 
works." 

Every woman who is at the head of a household, is, in a meas- 
nre, responsible to the Good Being for the salvation of those un- 
der ier immediate care. 



BREAD. 149 

Start not, gentle reader ; you have been intrusted with the 
care of souls, and to you they look for that training " in the 
way they should go " while working out their eternal salvation. 
Do you rise early to administer to the temporal wants of your 
family, and give not one thought to their spiritual foodi Do 
you exercise that patience and forbearance with your children and 
hirelings which you are in constant need of? If not, remember 
that your account is to be rendered to Him who gave you the 
" light," and the power to make it " so shine "in your daily walk 
and conversation " that others may see your good works," and bo 
constrained to " glorify your Father which is in Heaven." 



150 MES. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



EGGS AND BUTTER. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Strain some hot water from the tea-kettle in a 
spider or broad stew-pan ; when it boils put a little 
salt in the water. Break your eggs, one by one, in 
the hot water and set it on the fire ; when it boils 
up again, they will be done. Take an egg-slice or 
skimmer and run it carefully under each egg ; put 
them in a covered dish, and pour butter over them. 

FRICASSEED EGGS. 

Boil one dozen eggs hard, peel them nicely, and 
cut them in slices, season some bread crumbs with 
Salt and pepper and beat two raw eggs. Sprinkle a 
little flour over the sliced egg, dip it in the raw egg 
and then in the bread crumbs, on both sides, and 
fry in boiling lard. After the egg is all fried, put 
some parsley in the lard, and fry it to garnish the 
egg with. Very nice for a variety. 

BOILED EGGS. 

Have water in a saucepan boiling hard, put your 
eggs in and let them remain five minutes. If you 
wish them hard, boil them five minutes longer. 



EGGS AND BUTTER. 151 



SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Put a piece of butter in a saucepan, and melt it 
over hot water, then break your eggs in, and set 
them on the fire, and stir them constantly, not 
allowing any to stick to the pan. It is a good 
plan to beat them a little before putting them in 
the pan to cook. 

EGGS WITH CHEESE. 

Put a small piece of butter in a saucepan, and 
then some bits of cheese ; stir it well, and as soon as 
it melts, put in the eggs you wish, after beating them 
a short time ; stir it well, and send to the table hot. 

EGG OMELET. 

Beat separately six eggs. If you have no omelet 
pan, put a frying-pan on the fire, and warm a 
spoonful of butter in it (be careful about butter 
being warmed over steam or a slow fire, as it burns 
easily and imparts an unpleasant taste), mix the 
eggs, pour them in the hot butter, and fry quickly. 
Never season an omelet until you take it on your 
plate. 

EGG OMELET WITH HAM. 

Beat six eggs together, chop some lean ham very 
fine, and mix it in the egg. Fry in hot lard instead 
of butter- 

EGG OMELET AND OySTEKS> 

Chop the soft part of the oyster fine and season 



152 MES. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

it with salt and pepper ; mix it with beaten egg, and 
fry as above in butter. 

OMELET WITH HERBS. 

Chop a httle celery, two onions, some parsley and 
sweet marjoram ; beat six eggs, mix it all together, 
and fry in boiUng lard. Always turn an omelet over 
when you put it on the dish. Never turn it in the 
frying-pan. 

FRENCH BUTTER. 

Set pans of milk for the cream to rise ; when it 
is a thick scum, take it off with a perforated skim- 
mer, put the cream in a thick, clean bag, put that 
bag in another thick, coarse one, and bury it one 
foot and a half deep in the earth. Let it remain 
twenty-four hours ; the cream will then be hard ; 
break it with a wooden pestle, and wash the butter- 
milk out. This is said to make butter of a superior 
quality, and the butter separates more perfectly than 
the ordinary process. 

GRANVILLE BUTTER. 

Strain new milk in a large stone jar in the even- 
ing and set it in a warm place, carefully covered 
over. Next morning add the new milk, and as soon 
as it begins to curdle, churn it until the butter sep- 
arates ; then take it up, work it well, salt it, let 
it stand several hours, wash it in cold water, work 
it until all the milk and water is out, add a little 
salt, and then pack it in a stone jar. 



EGGS AND BUTTEB. 153 



PASQUOTANK BUTTER. 

Strain the milk in pans ; when the cream rises 
and is thick, skim it off and put it in a churn that 
has been well scalded. Churn slowly until the but- 
ter separates, then pour it out, work the butter- 
milk out df it, salt it, and let it stand a few hours. 
Then work it again, wash it in cold water, and salt 
to taste. 

In the next generation, foreigners may be introduced into the 
South to discharge domestic duties. Their mode of living will be 
different from ours, and it will be hard to accustom ourselves to 
the change. 

" If a stranger sojourn with you in your land, ye shall not vex 
him, but the stranger that dwelleth among you shall be unto you 
as one born among you, and thou shaJt love him as thyself." Re- 
member this, and be kind to them, and give them the light of 
your knowledge. 

You must always preserve your proper authority and control 
over your household matters. Give your orders in a lady-like and 
determined manner, and you will be sure to command respect. 

When anything occurs to vex you, through the neglect, incom- 
petency, or impertinence of your new servants, act like a Chris- 
tian, be watchful, careful, conscientious, and slow to speak. Do 
not give them any cause for suspecting that you doubt their 
honesty, but be vigilant, and "look well to the ways of your 
household." Tell them that it is your habit, and you shall 
continue to carry your keys, and give out what you wish pre- 
pared for each meal, in measures according to the size of your 
family — that your husband has intrusted these things to your 
care, and you intend to discharge your duty to him faithfully. 

Be patient with them, making every allowance for their defi- 
ciency in training ; give them good books to read, make them as 
comfortable as possible, and always pay them their wages prompt- 
ly. In matters of religion, their faith may differ widely from ours, 
but we must remember that they were trained to believe as they 



154 MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

do, and we should allow them the blessed privilege which we en- 
joy, that of worshipping God in a free country, according to the 
dictates of our own consciences. 

I can testify to the fact that these rules, if strictly carried out in 
the management of serrants, will result in attaching them to you, 
and the interests of your family, for of those who once called me 
mistress, there was one whose love was so great that she refused 
to leave when declared free, and clung to me until Death claimed 
her as his own. 



YEASX, 165 



YEAST. 

AUNT matilda's HOP YEAST. 

Put a large handful of hops in a gallon of water, 
boil it until a light brown color, with two Irish 
potatoes sliced in it : when the potatoes are soft, 
strain it in a wooden bowl, stir one quart of flour 
into a paste with cold water, and when the hop tea 
is 'cool, stir it in. Then return it to the pot or ket- 
tle and put it over the fire to thicken, stirring it all 
the time ; as soon as it is heated through, pour it 
again in the wooden bowl to cool, occasionally 
stirring it. When perfectly cold, put it in a stone 
jug with stopper put in very lightly; set it in a 
warm place to rise, placing the jug in a pan to catch 
the yeast that runs over. When it has done rising, 
you can pour that back, as the jug should only be 
two thirds ftiU. Use one half pint to half gallon of 
flour ; two spoonfulsaof honey or a cup of sugar can 
be added before putting it in the jug, a teaspoonful 
of sugar to half pint when used. This yeast never 
fails. 

YEAST FOR CAKES OF LEAVEN. 

Put a large handful of hops in a pot with three 
quarts of water and three Irish potatoes : let it boil 
tolerably strong (down to half gallon), strain it boil- 
ing hot over a half gallon of sifted flour, stir it well, 



156 MBS. Elliott's housewife. 

and when cool add half pint of yeast or one yeast 
cake, and put it in a bucket to rise. When very 
light and porous, before it begins to fall, make it up 
in small thin cakes with com meal, and place them 
on a board to dry, turning them every day. After 
they are perfectly dry, put them in a thin bag and 
hang them in a cool place, where they will have air. 
In the summer time, use one of the cakes to one 
quart of flour for bread, rolls, or buckwheat cakes ; 
dissolve it in a teacup of cold water, and add a small 
teaspoonful of sugar. For all purposes for which 
yeast is required to make risen bread or cakes, these 
can be used, and are less troublesome and more eco- 
nomical, as they keep well for several months. 

bakek's yeast. 
Put one dozen large potatoes and a large handful 
of hops in a pot to boil ; don't peel the potatoes. 
When they are soft, put one pint of flour in a jar, 
put the potatoes on the flour, and then the hops boil- 
ing hot ; mash them all together and roll in a ball. 
Put it aside until cold, and the water the potatoes 
and hops were boiled in ; when^ both are cold work 
them together, and let it rise to the top and then 
fall. After it falls, it is ready for use ; stir it well 
and strain it. Does not increase by rising. 

POTATO TEAST. 

Take one pint of mashed Irish potatoes and work 
in it one pint of flour and one pint of water. Add 
one gill of good hop yeast and teaspoonful of salt ; let 



YEAST. 157 

it rise until the next day, and then use it for French 
rolls. Keep the yeast in a cool place, as it sours 
very easily. This quantity will last one week in a 
small family. 

PEACH-LEAF YEAST. 

Take three large leaves and three medium size 
Irish potatoes, boil them in two quarts of water. 
When the potatoes are done, take out the leaves 
and throw them away ; peel the potatoes, and mash 
them up in one pint of flour, adding sufficient water 
to make it a paste, then pour on the hot peach-leaf 
tea and scald for five minutes ; add half a cup of old 
yeast, and it will be ready for use in a few hours. 

nag's head yeast. 
Boil half an ounce of hops in four quarts of wa- 
ter ten minutes. Put one pound of flour and half 
pint of malt in a bucket, and pour one quart of the 
hop tea on it to make a thin paste, then strain the 
other three quarts over it from the hops. Let it 
stand until milk warm, pour a pint of old yeast in 
it, stir it well, and let it stand until it rises and falls. 
Use one half pint to a quart of flour for good plain 
rolls or loaf bread. 

MIDK YEAST. 

This is made for immediate use. Stir in a pint 
of new milk a teaspoonful of salt and a large spoon- 
ful of flour, set it by the fire for one hour, and then 
make up your bread with it. It is convenient for 



158 MES. Elliott's housewife. 

loaf bread or biscuit when one wishes to make 
them lip in haste. 

MISS Betsey's teast. 
At four o'clock in the morning, stir a cup of 
flour in one pint of water about as warm as new 
milk ; put in a little salt. Set it by the fire to 
rise, and stir it often. When it is very light, it is 
ready for use, and will make two loaves of bread 
very light for tea. 

HOP TEAST. 

Boil a large handful of hops in two quarts of wa- 
ter until it is a strong tea. Strain it in a jar with 
a pint of flour and stir it till very smooth ; when 
cool put in a gill of yeast and set it in a warm place 
till light, and then stop tightly. Always make 
fresh yeast, before all you have is used, so you can 
have some to set the new with. 

TEAST CAKES. 

Take some of the above when fresh, and thicken 
it with meal or flour, tUl very stiff. Roll them out 
and cut in thin, small cakes, and dry in the sun. 
Soak them in milk an hour before you want to 
make bread. Use one cake size of a half pint 
tumbler to a quart of flour. Be carefiil in winter 
not to let them freeze, and keep dry. 

QUICK TEAST MADE VTITH MILK. 

Take one teacup of milk and two large spoon- 



YEAST. 159 

fills of flour and stir them together. Set it near the 
fire and let it rise one hour. This quantity will 
make one gallon of flour in good bread. 

KEADT YEAST. 

Put in a pitcher one spoonful of sugar, two 
spoonfiils of flour, and three of water-^ stir them well, 
and add one gill of hop yeast or a piece of leaven 
dissolved in a gill of water ; set it to rise in a warm 
place. Make up bread with it as other yeast. Be- 
fore it gives out, stir the same quantity of sugar, 
flour, and water, and put it in with the little that 
sticks to the pitcher and set it to rise. It is always 
ready, and never sours. 

ANOTHER SIMPLE YEAST. 

Stir a pint of flour in one quart of lukewarm wa- 
ter, put in one teaspoonful of salt and one cup of 
brown sugar and one cup of yeast. Put it to rise, 
and when well risen, keep it in a cool place. 

MILK YEAST FOR BATTER BREAD. 

At sunrise stir one pint of warm water, one tea- 
cup of sweet milk and a teaspoonful of salt together, 
and make a thin batter with flour. Set it in a. 
warm place in winter, and in the sun in summer. 
If near a fire, turn it often and keep it tightly cov- 
ered, stir it every now and then, until it begins to 
rise well. At eleven or twelve o'clock make up 
bread with it. 



160 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



MKS. SCOTT S YEAST. 

Monday morning boil two ounces of good hops in 
four quarts of water for half an hour. Strain it and 
let the liquor cool down to the warmth of new 
milk. Then put in a small handful of salt and half 
a pound of sugar. Stir one pound of family flour 
with a little of the hop tea until smooth, and then 
mix in the tea and let it stand until "Wednesday. 
Boil three pounds of Irish potatoes, mash it fine 
and stir in. The next day strain it, and put it in 
jugs or bottles. Keep it in a cool place, and it will 
keep good for two months. The last generally the 
best. Always keep it in a warm place when it is 
being made, and stir it often. 

MAGIC YEAST. 

Twelve hours before you wish to use it, stir one 
tablespoonful of brown sugar, two of flour and three 
of water together, and add a small piece of leaven 
or one spoonful of hop yeast to make it rise. Use 
two tablespoonfuls of this to one quart of flour. Let 
the yeast remain in the jar, and before it is all 
used add the flour, sugar, and water as at first, and 
you will always have nice fresh yeast that makes 
beautiful bread. Keep two jars, and occasionally 
change them so you can have it sweet and fresh. 

FLOUR YEAST. 

Mix half a pint of flour with one pint of cold 
water. Put it in a saucepan and can it to a thick 



YEAST. 161 

paste, stirring it all the' time. Then pour it in 
a bowl and stir in one cup of hop yeast, dessert 
spoonful of sugar and one of salt, and set it to rise. 

HOP YEAST. 

Boil half a pint of hops in two quarts of water till 
the strength is extracted. Rub half a pint of flour 
smooth with cold water, strain the tea and mix it 
in ; let it cook slowly like mush from five to ten min- 
utes. Let it cool, and then add a gill of yeast and 
two nicely mashed boiled potatoes, and put it in a 
stone jug or bottles to rise. A tin coffee-pot should 
be kept to boil hops in, as the bitter taste is hard to 
remove from a kettle. 

BUTTERMILK YEAST. 

One quart of buttermilk, two teaspoonfuia of 
sugar, one quart of meal, two gills of hop yeast. 
Let it rise eight hours : then stir in one quart of 
meal, make it out in thin small cakes and dry them 
in the sun ; use one for a quart of flour. 

MES. lee's yeast. 

Boil six Irish potatoes and a handful of hops in 
half gallon of water ; when cooked, mash the pota- 
toes. Strain the hop tea and mix with the potatoes. 
Thicken .with half pint of flour. Return all to 
the kettle and bring to the boiling point ; add a heap- 
ing tablespoonful of salt, and set the preparation 
with half pint of yeast. This will keep gool one 
week in a cool place. 
11 



162 MES. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

Unforeseen circumstances may make a change in yonr life of 
which you little dreamed, when your heart and hand were pledged 
at God's altar, to one raised in the lap of luxury, with self-indul- 
gence. 

It is in the power of woman to make " her children rise up and 
call her blessed ; her husband, also, he praiseth her." 

The beautiful home of your bridal days, with all that wealth 
could accomplish, to beautify the grounds around your i icily 
ornamented dwelling, surrounded by highly picturesque scenery, 
filled with sumptuous furniture, and with every convenience, may 
have to be placed under the sheriff's hammer, and exchanged for 
a simple cot furnished with unpolished wood. If such be your 
lot, make that home happy, by cultivating a cheerful, happy dis- 
position. 

When your husband's business hours are over, be always ready 
to meet him with a smile, your hair and dress neatly arranged, the 
fire burning brightly in winter with the " tidy little ones " around 
a nice, chan hearth, and as the opening bud expands its petals in 
gorgeous colors, with summer's sweet flowers, teach them to meet 
papa with a bouquet, gathered from the plants cultivated by your 
own hand around the cottage door, to elevate and refine the feel- 
ings, while creating a taste for the beautiful works of nature and 
making the air redolent with their sweet fragrance. 



PUDDINGS AND PASTEY. 168 



PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. 

REMARKS ON BOILED PUDDINGS. 

Procure a tin mould, melon or any shape you 
prefer, and see that the top fits very tight, a 
common tin bucket with a closely fitting top, or 
make a pudding bag, nine inches wide and eighteen 
inches long, of close coarse linen or twilled jeans ; 
have them always in place and put up, nicely 
cleaned. When you wish a boiled pudding, before 
you begin to make it, have a clean pot or kettle of 
boiling water on the stove or over the fire-place. 
Make your pudding, scald the bag in the pot of 
water or some taken from it, turn it while hot and 
dip it in flour, then turn it again and pour the mix- 
ture in. If a simple batter, tie it close. If made of 
bread or Indian meal, let it be loose to allow for swell- 
ing. See that your water is boiling hot when you 
put it in and turn it frequently whilst boiling to pre- 
vent its sticking to the pot, and have water kept above 
the pudding : for this purpose have some boiling in 
your tea-kettle to add to it. When ready to send 
to the table, have a nice china dish with a cover, 
dip the pudding-bag in cold water and turn it out 
smoothly in the dish ; untie the string, and roll the 
bag back, and it can be taken out without being bro- 
ken. If you use your tin mould or a bucket, do not 



164 MES. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

let the water be above the top of the mould, and see 
that the top of the bucket is tied across to the han- 
dle. I name the bucket, as moulds are not very- 
common, and a bucket makes a very good substitute. 
Always plunge the mould or bucket in cold water 
as you do a bag, and turn the contents out quickly. 

REMARKS ON BAKED PUDDINGS. 

For a pudding of bread, custard, or corn meal, 
have your pan nicely cleaned and place it in a mod- 
erate oven, pour the mixture in the pan after plac- 
ing it in, and bake slowly. If for a stove, warm 
your pan before pouring the mixture in, and mod- 
erate the heat by the stove dampers. If a bat- 
ter or rice pudding, bake in a quick oven or well 
heated stove, so it will cook before the rice or eggs 
settle and cook hard. 

PBABODY ENGLISH PUDDING. 

One pound of flour, one pound of butter, one 
pound of sugar, two pounds of raisins, two pounds 
of currants, two gills of French brandy, eight 
cloves pounded fine and sifted through muslin, two 
nutmegs grated, one teaspoonful of cinnamon and 
allspice mixed, three lumps of sugar rubbed on a 
lemon and orange pounded fine, and twelve eggs. 
Beat the eggs light with the sugar, cream the flour 
and butter together and stir it well in the eggs and 
sugar ; cut one pound of citron in small strips and 
flour it with the raisins and currants, put the spices 
and lemon sugar in the brandy, and add. Then 



PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. 165 

stir in the fruit slowly, one at a time, first raisins, 
then currants, and then citron ; handful of each till 
all are mixed. Put it in a pudding mould, and boil 
it six hours ; keep hot water to add as it boils down. 
This cannot be surpassed for a Christmas or dinner 
party. Stick it with blanched almonds, pour half a 
pint of French brandy over it, and set it on fire, on 
the table. 

WINE SAUCE FOR PEABODY PUDDING. 

Pulverize one pound of the best loaf sugar, and 
stir it half an hour with nearly one pound of fresh 
butter ; stir in one wine-glass best French brandy 
and two of best sherry wine. Rub four lumps of 
sugar on a lemon and orange, pound and mix it in, 
and grate nutmeg over the top. 

CHEISTMAS MINCE-MEAT. 

Boil six pounds of lean beef until tender ; let it 
get cold, and then chop it very fine with your 
cleaver. Pick three pounds of beef snet and chop 
that fine. Stone four pounds of raisins, and cut 
them up. Wash two pounds of currants and dry 
them. Cut in bits one pound of citron, and chop 
one peck of peeled apples. Have two teaspoonfuls 
of fine cinnamon, one of allspice, one dozen cloves, 
one large nutmeg, one teaspoonfiil of black pepper 
and large spoonful of salt in separate papers, all 
nicely powdered, three pounds of nice brown sugar, " 
and the syrup from the peel of two oranges pre- 
served ; chop the peel up fine. Put in your tray a 



166 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

layer of the beef, then suet, then salt and pepper, 
next sugar, apples, and the other fruit, then your 
spices and chopped orange peel. When all are in, 
pour the syrup of peel over it with one quart of 
French (or some other good) brandy. Work it all 
up with the hands until well mixed. This will keep 
in stone jars until the spring and cannot be sur- 
passed, if made strictly by directions. When you 
wish pies made of it, line your baking plates with a 
rich puflE" paste, and fill with the meat, then add 
sweet cider and a little wine to moisten the meat. 
Cover with a top crust and bake a pretty brown. 
Serve them hot. I tested this twenty-five years 
ago. 

ANOTHER MINCE-MEAT. 

Three pounds of tender lean beef, one and a half 
pounds of suet, two pounds of chopped apples, two 
of raisins, two of currants, one of citron, two of 
sugar, one giU of rose-water, the juice of four lemons 
and the peel preserved and chopped fine, one pint 
of brandy ; have salt, mace, cloves, allspice, pepper, 
cinnamon, and ginger pulverized, and add to yom* 
taste. Never use much mace or cloves. Mix it 
thoroughly, as in above recipe, and bake in the 
same way. Cider added when they are baked, or 
wine, greatly improves them. Mince-pies are 
baked in quantities at the North, and kept for 
weeks in a dry, cool place, and when wanted they 
are steamed until hot through. 



PUDDINGS AND PASTEY. 167 



CAROLINA SWEET POTATO PUDDING. 

Slice peeled sweet potatoes, put them in a sauce- 
pan with water enough to cover them. Season 
them with a little allspice in grains, wine, and 
brandy, with sugar to the taste ; boil it up until the 
potato is soft. Make a nice puff or plain paste, 
line a deep dish with it, and pour all in. Cover 
a top paste and bake it. 

Melissa's potato pudding. 
One quarter of a pound of boiled sweet potatoes, 
same of sugar and butter, one wine-glass of mixed 
wine and brandy, half a gill of rose-water, one tea- 
spoonful of mixed spice, cinnamon, and nutmeg, 
with three beaten eggs. . Bake in puff paste without 
any top crust. 

GRATED POTATO PUDDING. 

Peel and grate four nice sweet potatoes, beat six 
eggs with half a pound of sugar and half a pound 
of melted butter ; season it with nutmeg, a little all- 
spice, and a pinch of salt. Stir the grated potato 
in, beat until well mixed, and bake it in paste. 
Cut the paste in slits around it, two inches wide, 
and turn them to a half square. All plate pud- 
dings look better with the paste cut and halved in 
forms. 

POTATO CUSTARD. 

Boil six sweet Carolinas, and strain them through 
a sieve. Beat eight eggs and one large cup of su- 



168 MES. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

gar, with one cup of milk and same of butter, a lit- 
tle nutmeg, essence of lemon, and a gUl of wine or 
brandy. Mix the potato in and bake in pie plates 
covered with nice paste. 

LEMON CUSTARD. 

Beat five eggs with five cups of sugar, grate 
three lemons and squeeze the juice, mix it with 
three cups of new milk and one tablespoonful of 
com starch, rice flour, or fine wheat flour, and bake 
it on crust. If you beat the eggs separately, stir 
the white in just as you put it to bake. 

PENNSYLVANIA PUDDING. 

One pint of milk, one tablespoonful of washed rice, 
half a cup of raisins, and same of sugar, a pinch of 
salt, and a little nutmeg. Mix it up and put it to 
bake. Stir it, after it has been skimmed four times, 
to keep the raisins and rice mixed. Let it bake 
until the rice is done, and serve it cold with cream 
and sugar. 

SUET PUDDING. NO. 2. 

Beat four eggs with one cup of sugar, add one 
pint of sweet milk and a cup of sour, teaspoonful 
of soda and two cups of chopped suet, tablespoonful 
of butter and flour enough to make a stiff batter. 
Add raisins, currants, or any dried fruit, and boil it 
three hours. Eat with sauce. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Stew twelve large apples, and rub them while 



PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. 169 

hot, through a sieve. Mix in them half a pound 
of butter, half a pound of sugar, and six well beaten 
eggs ; put a paste in your pudding dish, and pour 
the mixture in and bake it. 

thoepe's lemon pudding. 
Cream six ounces of butter and one pound of 
sugar together. Beat the yelks of fifteen eggs and 
stir slowly in, then the juice of two lemons. Line 
three baking plates with a nice pufF paste, pour the 
mixture in and bake them a light brown. Good 
when cold. 

thoepe's boiled plum-pudding. 

Beat twelve eggs, with half a pound of sugar, and 
half a pound of butter ; stir in smoothly one pound 
of flour, and then one pound of stoned raisins, well 
floured ; flavor with lemon and boil it in a tin shape, 
or pudding-bag, for one hour and a half. Eat it 
with cold sauce. Always dip your pudding-bag in 
boiling water and flour the inside, to make it turn 
out smoothly. 

beead pudding. 

Take the crumb of a small loaf of bread and 
pour two quarts of milk over it ; when well soaked, 
beat it hard and add four eggs beaten with one 
large coffee cup of sugar and tablespoonful of but- 
ter, grease your pudding pan, pour it in and bake- 
one hour. One nutmeg grated will improve it, 
though they are very good without. 



170 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



A CHEAP PUDDING. 

Mix four tablespoonfuls of flour into a quart of 
sweet milk, add the yelks of five eggs and stir -well. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and 
stir it in just as you put it in the pan to bake. 
Bake twenty minutes and eat with sauce. 

PINE-APPLE PUDDING. 

Grate a well peeled pine-apple, take its weight 
in fine white sugar and half the weight in butter, 
cream the butter and sugar together, and stir in 
the grated pine-apple, then five eggs well beaten, 
and a coffee cup of cream. Bake it with or with- 
out crust as you may prefer. 

fannie's lemon pudding. 

Beat eigbt eggs well and mix in eight ounces of 
white sugar ; rub some lumps of sugar on two 
lemons, and, beat them in a mortar with the juice ; 
cream six ounces of butter and mix all well to- 
gether. Bake in a pie plate or pudding dish on 
paste. 

fannie's almond pudding. 

Blanch one half pound of almonds and pound 
to a paste with a little rose-water. Cream one pound 
of sugar and three quarters of a pound of butter 
together, and stir in eight well-beaten eggs, then 
the almonds, and one pint of cream. Put it in a 
deep dish with a rim of puff paste around the edge, 
and bake it fifteen minutes. 



PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. 171 



FANNIE S PINE-APPLE PUDDING. 

Peel a pine-apple, take its weight in sugar and 
same in butter ; cream the butter and sugar, then 
add the grated pine-apple, with five beaten eggs and 
a cup of cream. Line the pudding dish with puff 
paste and bake. 

fannie's favoeite pudding. 
The yelks of fifteen eggs, beat with one pound 
of sugar, six ounces of butter, and the juice and 
grated peel of one lemon. Line pie plates with 
pastry and bake ten minutes. 

fannie's cocoanut pudding. 
One cocoanut grated, three eggs beaten together, 
one and a half cups of milk. Sweeten to the taste, 
add juice and peel of two lemons, and bake it in 
pastry made with butter. 

fannie's lemon pudding. 
Beat three eggs with one cup of sugar, the juice 
and grated peel of one lemon, pour it in a saucepan 
and cook four minutes, stirring it all the t'me ; 
take it off the fire and stir in the white of egg beat 
to a stiff froth ; have a pastry baked in a pie plate, 
pour the mixture on it and bake it a few minutes. 

fannie's molasses pudding. 
Stir one teaspoonful of soda in one cup of mo- 
lasses, add one cup of butter, same of milk, and 



172 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

flour enough to make it stiff. Boil it five hours, 
and eat it with a nice sauce. 

fannie's bread pudding. 
Line a pudding dish with thin slices of bread, 
then fill the dish with grated bread crumbs, rai- 
sins, and bits of butter ; be it up custard with milk, 
eggs, and sugar, and flavor it ; pour it over it and 
bake, until done, in a quick oven. One quart of 
milk, eight eggs, and half a pound of sugar for the 
custard. 

HINTON PUDDING. 

Put slices of sponge cake in a pudding dish 
greased with butter , butter each slice and cover it 
with peach or other preserves ; fill the dish with 
layers in the same way j make a custard with eight 
eggs, one quart of milk and half pound of sugar ; 
let the milk boil and stir the eggs and sugar in it. 
Then add lemon extract to your taste, and pour 
it over the cake in the padding dish ; place the dish 
in your oven or stove, and bake it ;i light brown. 
Send it to the table warm, and you will have a 
delicious dessert. 

BATH PUDDING. 

Thicken one pint of milk with two tablespoonfuls 
of flour ; when cold add six eggs and tablespoonful 
of butter; one ounce of blanched almonds, the 
juice of one lemon, with a little of the peel grated, 
and half pound of white sugar. Bake it in cups. 



PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. 173 



ORANGE PUDDING. 

Grate three sponge biscuits in enough milk to 
make a paste ; beat three eggs and stir them in with 
the juice of a lemon and half the peel grated. Put 
a teacup of orange juice and one of sugar, with half 
cup of melted butter in the mixture ; stir it well, 
put it in a dish with puff paste around it, and bake 
slow one hour. 

CINNAMON PUDDING. 

Beat five eggs separately, add five large spoonfuls 
of sugar to the yelks ; then the whites, and quarter 
of a pound of melted buttei* ; mix it well and make 
it black with pulverized cinnamon. Bake it in a 
paste in pie plates. 

CAKE PUDDING. 

Beat five eggs with two cups of sugar, one cup of 
butter, and same of milk ; sift one teaspoonful of 
soda in three and a half cups, of flour and stir it in 
slowly ; dissolve two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, 
and stir it in just as you put it to bake. Flavor 
according to taste. 

LAVINA's SICILY PUDDING. 

Take a large lump of loaf sugar and rub it over 
two lemons (always scrape off the lemon in a 
saucer as the sugar yellows), mix it with one pound 
of powdered loaf sugar. Beat the whites of eiglit 
eggs to a stiff froth and then in them the sugar ; 
very slowly in, this mixture stir in one taWespoonful 



174 MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

of fine flour ; put in the juice of one lemon and 
beat all well together. Butter a dish and bake it 
quickly, or line pans with puff paste, cook the paste 
partly done, and then fill them with the mixture and 
bake twenty minutes. If you substitute oranges, 
use the rind of one and juice of two. Sprinkle 
sugar over the top when cold. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Beat five eggs, leaving out the whites of two ; 
mix them with one quart of stewed apples that has 
been flavored with lemon and made sweet to the 
taste with sugar. Beat the whites of two eggs to 
a stiff" froth, and stir in three tablespoonfuls of fine 
sugar with a little lemon to flavor. After the 
apples and eggs are poured in your pudding dish, 
■ pour the whites on and bake quickly. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

Beat the whites of ten eggs to a stiff froth, stir 
in half a pound of butter and the same of sugar 
that has been creamed together, and mix it alter- 
nately in the white of egg with a nicely girated 
cocoanut. 

IRISH POTATO PUDDING. 

One pound of mashed potato, twelve ounces of 
butter and same of sugar. Stir the butter and 
sugar well in the potatoes, then six eggs beaten 
light. Season with lemon-peel, orange-peel grated, 
or mace and cloves. 



PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. 175 



OITEON PUDDING. 

Beat eight eggs, cream one pound of sugar and 
three quarters of a pound of butter together ; flavor 
with lemon Extract. Line a pie plate with puff 
paste, cover it with slices of citron and pour the 
mixture over. This will make three puddings. 

SPONGE PUDDING. 

Beat six eggs with two cups of sugar, add one 
cnp of cream, one of hutter, and one quart of flour, 
with one teaspoonful of soda sifted in it. Flavor 
with lemon and bake in a dish. Eat it hot with 
butter and peach preserves. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

Beat the yelks of four eggs with ten ounces of' 
sugar and eight ounces of butter. Whip the whites 
of eight eggs to a froth and stir it in alternately 
with one grated cocoanut. Bake it in puff paste. 

BOILED PLUM-PUDDING. 

Stone and cut up one pound of raisins, beat 
twelve eggs with half a pound of sugar, stir in half 
a pound of butter with one pound of flour, add a 
^11 of brandy and part of a nutmeg grated. Boil 
it two hours and eat it with wine sauce. 

PLAIN BOILED-PUDDING. 

Beat nine eggs with nine spoonfuls of flour and 
one quart of milk. Put a pinch of salt in it and 
boil it one hour. 



176 MBS. Elliott's housewife. 

Penelope's cocoanut pudding. 
Cream one pound of butter and the same of 
white sugar together. Beat eight eggs very light, 
and stir them slowly in. Then add one pound of 
grated cocoanut with one gill of nice wine. Line 
pie plates with crust, fill them with the mixture, 
and bake slowly until a pretty light brown. Eat 
them cold. 

etta's plum-pudding. 
Beat four eggs. Stir in them half a pound of 
flour and half a pint of new milk ; add half a pound 
of beef suet chopped fine, half a pound stoned 
raisins well floured and a few currants, with a 
teaspoonful of salt. Boil this pudding four hours 
briskly, and serve with wine sauce. 

Susan's plum-pudding. 
The day before you wish to have this pudding 
for dessert, stone and chop fine one pound of rai- 
sins, wash in warm water one pound of currants, 
pick and dry them, and chop half a pound of beef 
suet. Next morning soak a pound loaf of bread 
m a pint of warm, sweet milk ; beat it fine, add to 
it the raisins, suet, and currants, with three eggs 
well beaten, a grated nutmeg, tablespoonful of sugar, 
and wine-glass of brandy. Put it in a floured bag 
or pudding mould, and boil it four hours. Serve 
with cold sauce, made of sugar and butter and fla- 
vored with wine and teaspoonful essence of lemon 
or vanilla. 



PUDDINGS AND PASTKY. 177 



FIG PUDDING. 

Take one pound of nice dried figs and chop them 
fine ; grate enough bread to weigh three quarters 
of a pound, six ounces of moist sugar, six ounces of 
beef suet chopped fine, a teacupful of milk, and a 
little nutmeg. Mix the bread and suet first, then 
the figs, sugar, and nutmeg, then one beaten egg 
and the milk. Boil it in a mould or pudding bag 
for four hours, and eat it with sugar and butter 
sauce. 

SLICED BREAD PUDDING." 

Cut some slices of light cold bread and butter 
them, then spread preserves of any kind over them, 
and repeat until yon fill your pan or mould. Beat 
four eggs, pour over the bread in the pan one pint 
of boiling milk, then the eggs ; place the mould in 
boiling water, cover it with a cloth, and let it boil 
twenty minutes. Serve with a nice sauce. 

BOILED FRUIT PUDDING. 

Make a paste crust and roll it thin, put some 
chopped apples or other fruit in it, roU it up, tie 
it in a cloth, and boil it for two hours. Serve with 
a nice sauce. 

SPONGE PUDDING. 

, Beat six eggs and two cups of sugar together, 
put one teaspoonful of soda in a cup of cream, and 
add it with one cup of butter ; season with lemon, stir 
in one quart of flour, and bake it in a slow oven. 

12 



178 MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



CUSTAED PUDDING. 

Beat twelve eggs light and stir gendy in twelve 
spoonfuls of flour and one pint of milk. Bake it 
quickly and eat it with a nice sauce. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Soak four tablespoonfuls of tapioca in one quart 
of new milk. Stir it over a fire until it comes to a 
boil after it has soaked well ; then add the grated 
rind of one lemon, half a pint of sweet cream and 
same of sugar ; add the yelks of four eggs and stir 
well. Just before baking stir the whites in, after 
being well whipped, and bake five minutes in a hot 
oven. 

BATTER PUDDING. 

Beat five eggs very light, stir in one pint of sifted 
flour, and one quart of sweet milk. Bake it in a 
pan without a crust, and eat it with butter and 
sugar for sauce. 

AEROWKOOT PUDDING. 

Dissolve four heaping tablespoonfuls of arrow- 
root in a little milk, and mix it with four well beaten 
eggs and two tablespoonfuls of white sugar. Boil 
one quart of milk and stir the mixture in it, boil 
three minutes, flavor with lemon, and eat it with 
cream and sugar. 



PUDDINGS AND PASTBY. 17 & 



LAUKA S BR3SAD PUDDING. 

Beat the yelks of five eggs ; add a pint of sweet 
milk and five tablespoonfiils of stale bread. Bake it 
a light brown and then put on a layer of preserves ; 
beat the whites of the eggs very stiflF and then beat 
in five tablespoonfiils of fine sugar ; pour it over 
the top, return it to the oven, and bake a pretty 
light brown. If you like, add extract of lemon or 
vanilla to the white of egg, befi)re putting it on. 

MUSH PUDDING. 

Take one teacup of sifted meal and mix with 
coffee cup of cold water, put it on the fire and stir 
until it boils ; put in a pinch of salt, one cup of milk, 
one of sugar, and half cup of butter and three eggs ; 
season to taste with an extract. Bake and eat it 
with butter. 

DKIED PUMPKIN PIE. 

Take one roll of pumpkin (as directed to dry it), 
put it in sweet milk, and let it soak two hours. Put 
in one egg, one tablespoonfiil of sugar^ a teaspoonfiil 
of ginger, and one of allspice, and bake it in a crust. 

GREEN APKICOT PIE. 

Take the apricot before the stone is formed and 
stew it gently in sugar and water ; when tender re- 
duce and thicken the syrup. Line pie pans with 
crust, put them in, and cover it with an upper crust. 
Make grape pies the same way ; always vise sugar 
according to taste. 



180 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



PBUNE TABT. 

Scald the prunes, take out the stones and break 
them, put the kernels in a little cranberry juice 
with the prunes and sugar, simmer them, and when 
cool make a tart of them on a crust in pie plate. 
Damsons, green plums, or any stone finiits are cooked 
in the same way. 

TO STEW CRANBERKIES FOR TABTS. 

Simmer them in moist sugar twenty minutes 
without breaking. One pint will require tliree 
ounces of sugar. 

GREEN TOMATO PIE. 

Wash the tomato and cut out the centre, put a 
piece of lemon in it, and stew it with three quarters 
of a pound of sugar to one of the tomato until it is 
well done ; then put it in puff paste as other pies, 
and bake it. 

PEACH PIE. 

Peel and halve ripe peaches and stew them with 
sugar until cooked through ; have enough water to 
make the juice. Make a rich paste, line baking 
pans, and fill them with the peach and plenty of 
syrup they were stewed in ; put a top crust, stick 
it with a fork, and bake them. 

CHERRY PIE. 

Stone the cherries and stew them a short time 



PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. 181 

with sugar and a very little water, put them in 
paste and bake as above. 

DEIED PEACH PIES. 

Stew the peaches until soft in water, then add 
some sugar with a little orange peel and stew again ; 
bake in paste as above. 

DRIED PEACH JACKS. 

Stew the fruit as above, roll a round piece of 
paste, half fill it, turn the other half over and bake. 

lizzie's paste. 
Sift one pound of flour and the same weight of 
butter, put one quarter of the butter and a little 
salt in the centre of the flour, with the yelks of two 
eggs ; wet the salt, to dissolve it, and make the 
paste up with ice water to a pliant dough, then roll 
the paste out in a sheet, press all the water out and 
put it in the paste ; double it over the butter, flour 
your rolling pin and board, and roll it gently until 
half an inch thick. Let it stand a short time doubled 
in four pieces, and then roll it again ; double once 
more and roll it, and then roll out the size you wish 
for pie plates, or to bake as a crust for preserve 
puffs. 

COCOANUT CUSTAKD. 

Beat six eggs with a large coffee cup of fine 
white sugar ; after well beaten mix in one large 
tablespoonful of butter, add two tablespoonfuls of 
French brandy with one teaspoonful of lemon ex- 



182 MKS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

tract, stir in one cocoanut grated fine and one 
quart of milk, and bake it a light brown, in a deep 
pudding dish. Eat it cold. 

Melissa's ptjff paste. 
Work the water out of one pound of butter, and 
lay it in ice water ; work a small piece in one pound 
of flour, and make it up with ice water ; roll it out 
and butter it with some of the washed butter, sift 
a little flour over it, roll it up and then out again, 
and continue the same way until all the butter is 
well in. Bake it in a quick oven on pie plates for 
fi-uit pies, or in patty-pans for sweetmeats. 

A NICE PASTE FOR PIES. 

Rub a tablespoonful of nice lard in one quart of 
flour, with a little salt ; work it up to a pliant dough, 
then roll it out and butter the sheet, sprinkle a lit- 
tle flour and roll it up, then out again and butter 
as before. After the second rolling, line plates or 
deep dishes with it, and fill with any mixture you 
have prepared for pies to bake in paste. 

CHICKEN PIE PASTE. 

Work the fiour you wish to use, entirely up with 
sweet lard and a little salt ; roll it out the size you 
wish, for the pie in a dish or plate, put in the 
chicken, cover it with a top paste, and bake it slowly 
until a light brown. Make this paste a little 
thicker than the above when you roll it out. 



PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. 183 



PUDDING SAUCE. KO. 1. 

Stir to a cream one pint of sugar and one of but- 
ter ; stir it for half an hour or more, then stir in 
half a pint of Madeira or Sherry wine, and ilavor 
it with lemon or vanilla. 

PUDDING SAUCE. NO. 2. 

Take half a pint of butter and the same quantity 

of sugar ; beat it to a thick cream. Mix a wine-glass 

, of boiling water and the same of brandy, with the 

juice of a large lemon and half a nutmeg grated ; 

stir all well, and put it in a sauce tureen. 

PUDDING SAUCE. NO. 3. 

Put one pint of sugar in a porcelain saucepan, 
and wet the sugar with water ; put in a piece of 
dry orange peel, let it boil until a little thick, then 
add a large piece of butter. Pour it out in a tureen 
or bowl, and put half a pint of scuppernong in it, 
and grate nutmeg over the top. 

PUDDING SAUCE. NO. 4. 

Put a cup of sugar in a saucepan with a table- 
spoonful of butter and a cup of water; let it boil. 
Stir one teaspoonful of flour smooth with milk and 
put it in ; stir it until it boils. Season it with 
brandy and nutmeg. 

CKBAM SAUCE. 

Strain one pint of sweet cream and stir enough 



184 MRS. Elliott's housewife. 

fine white sugar in it to make it thick ; sweeten half 
a pint of wine, or less, according to taste, and put 
some extract in it ; then slowly stir it in the cream 
and sugar ; grate nutmeg over the top. 

CINNAMON SAUCK. 

Boil two nice sticks of cinnamon half an hour in 
one pint of water ; stir in one pint of sugar, one 
tablespoonful of butter and a gill of brandy ; boil it 
until it ropes. Very nice sauce for a plain mo- 
lasses pudding. 

A NICE COOK ED SAUCE. 

Dissolve half a pound of loaf sugar in three gills 
of Madeira or sherry wine over the fire ; when it 
is boiling heat, stir in slowly the yelks of eight eggs 
well beaten. Beat it with an egg whip in the 
saucepan till it thickens, flavor it with a teaspoon- 
ful of lemon or vanilla extract, or a little fresh 
lemon and orange peel grated. Scuppemong or 
domestic grape and currant will do for common 
use. 

COMMON SAUCE. 

Boil one pint of water with pieces of dried orange 
peel and a pint of brown sugar ; rub one teaspoon- 
ful of flour in three of butter, and stir it in when it 
has cooked to half a pint ; boil and stir five minutes. 

POOR man's pudding. 
One cup of raisins, one cup of suet, four of flour, 
two of milk, half a teacup of molasses, one teaspoon- 



PXJDDINGS AND PASTRY. 185 

fill of cream of tartar, one of salt, and half teaspoon- 
ful of soda. Boil it in a tin form two hours. 

CEEAM PUDDING. 

Beat four eggs and two cups of loaf sugar, stir 
in one cup of cream and three of flour, with one 
teaspoonfiil of soda. Bake it like cake, and eat it 
with cream sauce and peach preserves. 

MRS. MCMAKTIN's sweet POTATO PUDDING. S. C. 

One pound of boiled potatoes, three fourths of a 
pound of sugar, half pound of butter, six eggs, and 
a wine-glass of brandy. Bake in a buttered pan 
and serve hot. 

Clara's cream pudding, s. c. 
One quart of rich milk, yelks of six eggs, two ta- 
blespoonfuls of butter, two of corn starch ; sweeten 
and flavor it to taste. Bake it in a greased pan. 

UNCLE James's flour pudding, s. c. 
One quart sweet milk, ten eggs well beaten, five 
spoonfuls of flour, and a pinch of salt. Either boil 
or bake. Serve hot with wine sauce. 

persimmon pudding. 
After the persimmons have been " touched by 
the frost, gather them, and strain through a sieve 
enough to make one half gallon. Beat foui eggs 
with four tablespoonfuls of sugar and same of flour 
and one pint of milk, with a large tablespoonfiil of 



186 MES. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

butter or two of fine suet. Bake it in pans. Some 
use com meal in preference to flour ; it requires 
longer cooking. 

PEACH DUMPUNGS. 

Peel your peaches and halve them. Make up a 
paste and roll it out the size of a small tea platCi 
Fill it with peaches and put it in a baking pan. 
Make as many as you wish for the family, and fiU 
the pan. Mix a little sugar with water and pour 
the pan half full and bake it in a stove or oven. 
Have sauce to eat with them, or add more sugar 
when you mix them, and eat with butter. If you 
make peach or apple dumplings to boil, always 
steam them done. 

OXFORD DUMPLINGS. 

Take two ounces of bread crumbs, four ounces 
of currants, same of beef suet, a tablespoonful of 
fine sugar, a Httle allspice, and rind of one lemon 
grated. Beat up two eggs and stir in a teacup of 
milk, and beat all together. Divide it in five dump- 
lings, and fry them a light brown color in hot lard. 
Eat with wine sauce. 

OEANGE TART. 

Grate the peel of one orange, and squeeze the 
juice, and same way one lemon. Beat two eggs 
with a quarter of a pound of sugar, add two ounces 
of melted butter, and mix it well with the orange 
and lemon. Line a tart tin with puff paste, pour the 
mixture in and bake it a quarter of an hour. 



J'UDDINGS AND PASTRY. 187 



APPLE FRITTEKS. 

Pare one dozen nice apples and cut them in 
slices, make a batter with four eggs, one quart of 
milk and one pint of flour, with a pinch of salt ; stir 
the apples in, and fry them in hot lard. Eat with 
sauce. 

PLAIN FRITTERS. 

Take one quart of buttermilk or sour milk, a 
pint of sweet milk, three eggs, a teaspoonful of 
soda, stir in flour enough to make a thick batter. 
Have a large spoonful of lard boiling hot in a spider, 
drop them in with a spoon and fry a light brown. 
Serve them with liquid sauce or molasses. 

CREAM FRITTERS. 

Take a quart of sweet milk and a teacupfiil of 
cream, four eggs well beaten, half a nutmeg grated, 
teaspoonftd of salt. Sift a teaspoonful of soda in one 
quart of flour and make it a nice batter ; if too thin 
add a little more flour. Fry in hot lard and butter 
mixed, and eat with wine sauce. 

VARIETIES. 

Beat two eggs light, put in a teaspoonful of salt, 
then thicken with flour. Roll it out as thin as a 
wafer, cut it in strips one inch wide and four inches 
long. Twist them around your finger and drop 
them in hot lard to firy. 



188 MRS. Elliott's housewife. 



TEANSPAEENT PIE. 

Beat eight eggs with half a pound of sugar, melt 
half a pound of butter and stir it in, beat them 
together a little while, flavor with lemon, and bake 
in puff paste. 

PEACH PIE. 

Take mellow, juicy peaches, cut them in quarters 
after peeling and taking out the stones. Line a 
deep plate with paste, put in a layer of peaches, a 
thick layer of sugar, a tablespoonful of water, and a 
sprinkle of flour. Cover with a crust and bake 
slowly one hour. 

SWEET POTATO PIE. 

One pint of mashed potato, one quart of milk, one 
cup of butter and two of sugar. Beat four eggs, 
add the butter, then the potato and the milk, flavor 
it with a little nutmeg, and bake it on paste in a pie 
plate. 

ALMOND PIE. 

Blanch one pound of almonds with a little white 
wine and one pound of sugar ; mix it with one cup 
of bread crumbs, one of cream, and part of a nut- 
meg grated. Bake it in a slow oven, and cover it 
with citron or preserved orange peel after you take 
it out. 

fanmte's silver pie. 

Peel and grate^ one large potato, add the juice 
and grated rind of one lemon, the white of one egg 
beaten, one teacup of cold water ; line a pie plate 



PUDDINGS AND PASTKY. 189 

with crust and pour the mixture in to bake. "When 
done, beat the white of three eggs with half a cup 
of fine white sugar and a Httle rose-water, put it 
nicely over the pie, return it to the oven, and bake 
a light brown. Lay strips of jelly over the top 
when sent to the table. 

fannie's golden pie. 
Grate the peel of one lemon with the juice in a 
bowl, add one cup of sugar, one of new milk, the 
yelks of three eggs well beaten, and one teaspoonful 
of corn starch ; line a dish with crust and bake it 
slowly. After it is done, beat the whites of the 
eggs with a tablespoonful of sugar, put it over it, 
and bake until the white is done. 

GREEN APPLE PIE. 

Peel tart apples and stew them nicely, strain 
them through a net strainer, season them while hot 
with butter or cream, flavor with nutmeg, and put 
them on a crust that has been baked in a pie plate. 
Always have sweet milk to drink with apple-pie. 

THE BEST WAT TO BOIL DUMPLINGS (mES. STEWAEt). 

Make a rich, light pastry, and line a large bowl 
with it ; fill with fruit, — blackberries, sliced ap- 
ples, peaches, or raspberries, and cover with a thin 
layer of "crust. Place a plate to fit the top of the 
bowl, tie the bowl up in a clean towel (or bag made 
for the purpose), and boil in a large kettle filled with 
water. This plan preserves the juice and obviates 



190 MES. Elliott's housewife. 

the need of thick crust, which is unwholesome as 
well as unpalatable. A dumpling made in this way 
and boiled well, eaten hot with butter and sugar 
sauce beat to a cream, is one of the most epicu- 
rean Southern desserts. 

BLACKBERRY AND RASPBERRY DUMPLINGS, BAKED. 

Make a rich pastry and roll it thin, cut it by a 
tea plate, fill it with berries, and put it in a large 
tin pan ; do this until it is full. Put a little water in 
the pan and bake them slowly, until a light brown. 
Eat them with wine sauce or plain sugar and butter. 

lizzie's lemon pies. s. c. 
Two lemons grated, two cups of sugar, one ot 
sweet milk, two tablespoonfuls of corn-stan'li, the 
yelks of six eggs. Bake in pastiy. Beat the whites 
of the eggs with eight spoonfuls of white sugar, and 
pour over the pies after they are baked. Set them 
in the oven or stove to dry for a few minutes. 

CHARLESTON PUDDING. 

Four cups of flour, sifted, with one teaspoonful 
of soda and two of cream tartar ; beat six eggs 
with three cups of sugar, one cup of butter, and 
one of cream in them, and gently stir in the flour. 

Jennie's pudding. 
Beat five eggs and half a pound of sugar to- 
gether ; chop half a pound of suet and half a pound 
of apples together ; stir it in the yelk of egg and 



PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. 191 

sugar ; then half a pound of flour, with half a pound 
of raisins, one gill of brandy, and one nutmeg. 
Mix all well and then stir in the whites of the 
eggs, beat to a stiff froth. Bake it two hours. 

SWEET POTATO PUDDING. 

•Parboil some potatoes, grate them, and weigh 
one pound. Beat eight yelks of egg with three 
quarters of a pound of sugar, and stir in the same 
of butter, and put it in the potato, with one glass 
of wine or brandy, a nutmeg and lemon grated. 
Stir the whites of the eggs in when beaten stiff, 
and bake. 

SWEETMEAT PUDDING. 

Beat the yelks of twenty eggs with the whites 
of three ; mix one pound of butter and one of sugar 
together, and stir in the eggs with one nutmeg 
grated in it. Line a pudding dish with rich paste 
and cover it with quince or peach preserves, pour 
the mixture over it and bake. When nearly done, 
beat the whites of eight of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
put two spoonfuls of fine sugar in it and a little 
lemon extract; take the pudding out, cover with 
the white of egg, and return it to the oven to 
cook a light brown,^ 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Beat four eggs, add half pound of butter and 
h'alf pound of sugar that is beat to a cream, 
grate the peel of one lemon, and squeeze the juice ; 



192 MBS. Elliott's housewife. 

mix all well and bake in two pie plates lined 
with rich paste. 

JEFFERSON PUDDING. 

One pound of mashed potato made soft with 
mUk, six eggs, half pound of white sugar, and some 
grated lemon ; bake moderately forty minutes. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Juice and rind of one lemon, one cup of sugar, 
yelks of two eggs, three tablespoons of flour, one pint 
of milk. Line a dish with paste ; pour on the mix- 
ture and bake. Beat the whites of the eggs to a 
stiff froth and stir in four tablespoons of sugar ; 
take it out of the oven or stove, pour the white of 
egg on lightly, return it and bake it a light brown. 

• AUGUSTA PUDDING. 

Nine tablespoonfuls of flour, ten eggs, and one 
quart of milk. Boil the milk and pour over the 
flour, and let it stand till it is cold, and then 
put in the eggs after being beat separately and 
very light. Bake it in a tin mould or dish in a 
quick oven or heated stove. Serve with cream 
sauce. 

CREAM PUDDING. 

Beat six eggs well and stir them into a pint of 
flour with a pint of milk, a little salt, the grated 
rind of a lemon, and three tablespoonfuls of sugar ; 
when ready to bake stir in the cream and bake in 
a buttered dish. Eat with thin wine sauce. 



PUDDINSS AND PASTRY. 193 



CORN MEAL PUDDING. 

Boil one quart of milk, add two gills and a half 
of corn meal very smoothly, beat seven eggs with a 
gill of molasses, and tablespoonful of butter ; mix 
all well and bake it in a greased pan two hours. 
Eat it with sugar and butter sauce. 

BOILED CORN MEAL PUDDING. 

At sunrise, put on a pot of water to boil this 
pudding. Mix three quarts of milk in one quart of 
corn meal, with three eggs and gill of molasses ; put 
it in a bag or mould large enough to allow it to 
swell. Boil briskly, and serve it with wine sauce. 

^ MUSH. 

Put a dessert spoonful of butter in a quart of 
cold water with a little salt, and stir in fine corn 
meal until as thick as you wish it, and cook it until 
it tastes done. Eat it cold with milk and grated 
nutmeg, or with butter. 

RICE PUDDING. 

One cup of rice, one cup of sugar, and one of 
butter, one quart of milk, a little nutmeg or cin- 
namon. Beat all together, put it in a buttered dish, 
and bake it two hours. 

PLAIN BAKED PUDDING. 

Beat nine eggs, and sift in five tablespoonfuls of 
flour with one quart of milk in the yelks ; then stir 

13 



194 MKS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

in the whites with a little salt and bake immedi- 
ately. Eat with liquid sauce. 

BREAD PUDDING, 

Three quarters of a pound of grated bread, three 
pints of boiled milk poured over it, half a pound of 
sugar and quarter of a pound of butter stirred in 
the bread, and five eggs beaten and put in when 
cold. Bake it. 

RICE PLUM-PUDDING. 

Take one quart of new milk and sweeten it with 
half a pint of sugar ; put in a little nutmeg or cin- 
namon, then a half pint of rice that is washed 
nicely, and quarter of a pound of picked raisins ; 
bake it two hours or boil it in a tin mould. 

PUMPKIN PUDDING. 

To one small pumpkin, add one quart of milk, six 
eggs, ginger, cinnamon, and nutmeg to taste. Make 
it very sweet with sugar, and add a teacup of mo- 
lasses and a little salt. Then bake it in deep 
plates. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Beat six eggs and six spoonfuls of sugar to- 
gether ; add one spoonful of butter, and six large 
spoonfuls of stewed apples ; flavor with any spice 
you prefer, or lemon, and bake it in a nice crust. 
This quantity will make two, in large sized soup- 
plates. 



PUDDINGS AND PASTEY, 195 



COCOANUT PUDDING. 

Cream half pound of sugar and half pound of 
butter together; add to it the whites of twelve 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth, with three quarters of 
a pound of grated cocoanut, and a wine-glass of 
wine and rose-water mixed. Put the mixture in a 
buttered dish. Lay puff paste around the sides, 
and bake half an hour in a moderate oven. 

CUSTARD PUDDING. 

Line a large dish with pieces of cake of any 
kind ; then fill it with a nice boiled custard. Whip 
the whites of four eggs and beat a large spoonful 
of sugar in it as for icing ; pour it over the top, 
and bake all a short time. Eat it cool. 

A LEMON PUDDING PIE. 

The grated rind and juice of one lemon, a tea- 
cup of sugar, one egg", a spoonful of flour, or one 
cracker grated, one wine-glass of wine, two large 
apples pared and grated, half a spoonful of butter, 
and a pint of milk. Boil the milk and butter to- 
gether, and let it cool. Beat up the egg and 
sugar, and add them ; add the wine and lemon just- 
as yfau put it in the oven to bake. 

A NICE SUET PUDDING. 

Boil and mash five nice potatoes, and put one 
pound of chopped suet in them. Add one cup of 
molasses, one cup of sugar, one cup of milk, one 



196 MRS, EtLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

cup of chopped raisins, one teaspoonful of soda, a 
little allspice, nutmeg, and cinnamon. Work in 
enough flour to make it like bread and boil it three 
hours in a tin boiler. 

SOUTH CAROLINA PUDDING. 

Stew enough apples to make a quart when 
mashed up. Season them with lemon and a spoon- 
ful of butter or teacup of rich cream. Boil a half 
pint of rice, put a pinch of salt in it and teaspoon- 
ful of sugar with some nutmeg grated. When 
both are cold, beat up six eggs with a tablespoonful 
or two of flour, stir all together, and boil it, or bake 
it in a moderate oven. Eat with sugar and butter 
sauce, flavored with Sherry or Madeira. 

QUICK PUDDING. 

Boil some rice ; when done soft, break in three 
eggs, half cup of cream or milk, and some grated 
nutmeg. Give it one boil, send it to the table with 
bits of butter on the top. 

MOLASSES PUDDING. 

Beat three eggs with one cup of sugar, one of 
butter,, one of milk, and half a cup of molasses ; 
mix in one quart of flour ; beat all well, then stir 
in one teaspoon of soda in a half cup of molasses, 
until it rises to the top of the cup, and stir it in 
well just as you put it in to bake. Eat hot with 
butter. 



PUDDINGS AND PASTET. l&T 



POTATO PUDDING, 

Boil six potatoes soft and pass them through a 
coarse hair sieve. Cream one pound of sugar and 
the same of butter together ; beat eight eggs and 
add them to the sugar and butter. Then put in a 
gill of wine, one of brandy, and half a gill of rose- 
water, with teaspoonful of allspice. Stir the mix- 
ture well in the potato, beat hard, and bake in a 
pan lined with paste or without, as you prefer. 

TO COQK E.ICE. 

Soak rice in cold water seven hours, then put it 
in boiling water and cook ten minutes. 

ANOTHER WAY. 

Put a teacup of well washed rice in a saucepan, 
and pour water enough to half fill the pan ; put it on 
a hot fire and let it boil quickly. When the grain 
looks done, pour the water off, cover it over to 
steam a few minutes to make the grains separate, , 
and put the saucepan inside the stove. The rice 
will brown in a short time. Run a knife around it, 
and turn it on a dish, and pour melted butter over 
it. Browning it gives it a pleasant flavor. 

STILL ANOTHER. 

Soak it three hours, mix part milk and water, let 
it boil up, then put the rice in and boil it fifteen 
minutes. Sweeten a cup of cream very sweet, 
grate nutmeg over it and pour it over the rice as 



198 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

soon as it is taken out of the saucepan, and placed 
in a covered dish. 

KAISINS AND RICE. 

Put one teacup of rice and half pound of raisins 
in a pudding-bag, drop it in a pot of boiling water, 
and frequently turn the bag. When done, slip the 
bag off and serve it hot on a dish to eat with nice 
sugar and butter sauce. Plain but good dessert. 

HICE rEUMENTT. 

Put a large coffee cup of rice on to boil, covered 
with water, and let it boil perfectly sofl. Beat six 
eggs, stir in one cup of sugar, one quart of milk, 
salt-spoonful of salt, and stir it in the rice ; give it 
one boil up, continuing to stir it until it tastes done 
(five minutes). Pour it in large bowls or covered 
dishes, put butter in bits all over the top, grate nut- 
meg over the butter, and let it cool. 

PASQUOTANK WHEAT ERUMENTY. 

The day before you wish to prepare it, have one 
quart of wheat picked, washed, and broken in a 
mortar perfectly dry. At four o'clock in the morn- 
ing put the wheat in a clean pot with a cover, with 
one gallon of water. Keep this boiling steadily 
until ten o'clock, occasionally stirring it. If the 
water boils down, add a little more fi:om the kettle. 
It must be very soft and well done. Beat twelve 
eggs, one pound of sugar, one tablespoonful of 
flour, and one of butter together. Put three quarts 



PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. 199 

of the wheat from the pot in a warm porcelain kettle 
(be careful and not scrape the bottom of the pot), 
put the kettle on the fire and stir the eggs, sugar, 
and butter in with three quarts of milk. Let it have 
one boil, stirring all the time, to prevent its cur- 
dling ; take it up in large bowls. Put butter over 
the top in bits, and sprinkle finely pulverized all- 
spice on the butter. This was always made at 
wheat harvest, for white and colored families. 

WHITE OUSTAED. 

Take the whites of eight eggs, five tablespoons 
of white sugar, one pint of milk, and one pint of 
cream. Boil the milk and cream together, stir the 
sugar gently in the eggs ; do not beat them or let 
them froth. Add the milk and cream slowly to 
the eggs and sugar, flavor it with lemon or vanilla 
extract, then pour it in cups, put the cups in a pan 
of boUing water, and set the pan in a cool oven. 
Add fire to it and bake them a light brown. 
Twenty minutes ought to be long enough to cook 
them right. This is very delicious and delicate for 
the sick. 

BOILED CUSTARD. 

Put one gallon of milk in a porcelain kettle over 
a hot fire ; whilst heating through, beat thirty-two 
eggs and one and a quarter pounds of sugar to- 
gether ; when the milk comes to a ftill boil, stir the 
eggs and sugar slowly in it, stirring all the time ; let 
it cook through for a few minutes, then turn it 
and stir until cool. Flavor with lemon or what you 
prefer. 



200 MES. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



BAKED CUSTAED. 

Beat eight eggs together with eight spoonfuls 
of sugar, stir in one and a half quarts of milk, tea- 
spoonful of lemon extract, and tablespoonful of but- 
ter ; pour it in a pan or pudding mould and bake 
fifteen minutes. Nice to eat with sponge cake and 
preserves "for dessert, and good for the sick. 

Br 
BOILED CUSTAKD. NO. 2. 

Put half a gallon new milk, as fresh from the 
cow as you can get it, in a porcelain kettle to boil. 
Tie a vanilla bean in a thin piece of muglin and 
put it in the milk. Beat twelve eggs with half a 
pound of loaf sugar, and when the milk boils so as to 
puff up, pour one half on the eggs and sugar ; then 
pour that over the remaining half in the kettle and. 
boil for five minutes, stirring it hard all the time. 
Try it and if disposed to curdle, pour it off" immedi- 
ately, and set it in a pan of cold water, and stir until 
cool. If the bean is not convenient, use extracts. 

Bessie's bunker hill pudding. 
Four cups of Indian meal, two of suet, two of 
molasses, one quart of milk, and a little salt; mix 
the meal and suet together with enough cold milk 
to moisten it, boil the milk, and put it in with the 
molasses. Put it in a tin mould, hat shaped, and 
set it in a kettle of water to come nearly to the top, 
but not over it ; have the mould covered very tight 
and boil it five hours. This was given me by a 
Boston lady for this " Housewife." 



PTJDDINGS AND PASTRY. 201 



FBENCH PUFF PUDDING. 

Beat the whites of four eggs to a stifFfrothj then 
the yelks with one cup of white sugar ; mix them, 
flavor to taste, and bake twenty minutes in a quick 
oven. 

JELLY ROLLS. 

Beat three eggs with one cup of sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls s^Hfeet milk or water, one and a half cups 
of flour, with one teaspoonful of cream tartar, and 
one and a half of soda sifted in it. Mix in a 
dough, spread it with jelly and roll it up, cut it in 
pieces an inch thick and bake, or bake it in one and 
then divide. Cream can be used instead of jelly 
for breakfast or tea. 

DELIGHTFUL PUDDING. 

One quart of boiled milk mixed with quarter of 
a pound of mashed Irish potato and same of flour, 
with an ounce or two of butter. Wheo it is cold 
add three eggs well beaten, bake half aji hojiy, and 
eat with wine sauce. 

MRS. JI.'S BAKED APPLE PUDDING. 

Take one quarter of a pound of boiled appJee and 
same of white sugar mixed ; add two ounces of but- 
ter, the yelks of three eggs and whites of two, the 
rind and juice of one lemon. Mix well and bake it 
in puff paste one hour. 



202 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



MRS. K. S SLICED LEMON PUDDING. 

Boil two lemons until perfectly soft, cut them in 
thin slices, taking out the seed ; line a dish with puff 
paste, put a layer of lemon, one of sugar, and one of 
sliced apple alternately, until the dish is full, and 
bake it. 

BOILED MOLASSES PUDDING. 

One cup of butter, one of molasses,«"one of milk, 
one. of raisins, and three of flour ; dissolve one tea- 
spoonful of soda in the milk and sift two of cream 
tartar in the flour ; put spice to taste, and a little salt 
if the butter is fresh. Boil four hours in a mould, 
and eat with sauce. The fruit and cream tartar can 
be left out if a plain pudding is wanted. 

PLAIN PLUM-PUDDING. 

Stir one pound of sugar and half pound of butter 
together and mix well with twelve eggs, then sift 
in one pound of flour and one of raisins. Boil it 
two hours and eat with sauce. 

anna's PUDDING. 

Beat eight eggs with eight ounces of sugar and 
eight ounces of butter and one grated nutmeg. Put 
it in a saucepan over the fire, and stir constantly 
until it thickens ; pour it out to cool, and bake it on 
a rich paste in a moderate oven. 

GRANVILLE MINCE-MEAT. 

Boil hogs' feet very tender, chop two pounds ; seed 



PUDDINGS AM) PASTRY. 203 

and chop two pounds of raisins, same of currants, of 
apples, sugar, citron, and one pound of fresh butter 
or suet, one tablespoonful of salt, mace, cloves, and 
cinnamon to the taste. Mix all with one quart of 
French brandy ; add more apple if you like. Bake 
in rich puff paste. 

POTATO PUDDING. 

Boil six potatoes soft and pass them through a 
coarse hair sieve. Cream one pound of sugar and one 
pound of butter together, beat eight eggs, and add 
to the sugar and butter ; then put in a wine-glass of 
brandy, the same of wine, and half a wine-glass of 
rose-water, with a teaspoonful of fine allspice. Stir 
the mixture well in the potatoes, beat hard, and bake 
in a pan without crust. 

Ann's plum-pudding. 
Rub one pound of flour and one of beef suet well 
together, add a pound of stoned raisins, a cup of 
brown sugar, one grated nutmeg, a few cloves, and 
milk sufficient to make a stiff batter. Dip your 
pudding-bag in hot water, and flour the inside. 
Pour the mixture in it, and put it in a pot of boil- 
ing water. Boil briskly for six hours, occasionally 
turning the bag to prevent the fruit from settling. 

POOR man's plum-pudding. 
One pound of raisins, half a pound of currants, 
one and a quarter pounds of flour, one cup of 
molasses, one teaspoonful of saleratus in a cup of 



204 MKS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

cold water ; mix the dry ingredients, then the 
molasses, the saleratus and cup of water, put it in a 
bag, and boil it six hours. 

CABINET PUDDING. 

Line a pudding pan with slices of pound cake or 
sponge. Beat eight eggs with one pound of sugar, 
stir in one quart of rich milk, and flavor with essence 
of lemon. Pour it in the pari with the cake, set 
it in a kettle of water and cook it, and when cool 
turn it out on a dish. 

LEMON CHEESE CAKE PUPDING. 

Cut the rind off two lemons and boil them soft, 
then beat them into one pound of sugar. Beat the 
yelks of eight eggs, add to . them half a pound of 
butter, and then the lemon and sugar, with two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, and bake it in puff paste. 

MRS. L.'S LEMON PUDDING. 

Line a pie plate with crust and bake it. Put in 
a saucepan three beaten yelks of eggs, one cup of 
sugar, the juice and grated peel of one lemon, and 
a tablespoopful of butter. Let it cook six minutes, 
stirring all the time ; take it from the fire and stir 
the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, imme- 
diately in, pour it over the baked paste, and bake it 
a few minutes. This makes a delicious pudding. 



PUDDINGS AXB PASTRY. ' 205 



A DISH FOK SHROVE TUESDAY. 
PANCAKES. 

Make a batter with one pound of flour, four eggs, 
a little salt, and one pint of sweet milk, with a des? 
sert spoonful of butter. If not as thin as you wish, 
add more milk or a little water, grease a hot grid- 
dle, pour a small teacup half full of the batter on it, 
let it run thin, bake it quickly, and fold it with each 
side turned to meet in the middle, Set the plate 
oyer hot water to keep them hot as you bake them, 
and send to the table to eat with molasses or wine 
sauce. In olden times, 'tis said, the lower classes 
in Catholic countries would toss a pancake up the 
chimney on Shrove Tuesday, and if it came out 
whole, they were sure of good luck all the year, 

A FRENCH lady's RECIPE FOR PANCAKES. 

Make a paste with flour, eggs, butter or oil, with 
a little brandy, salt, milk, and water, and let it stand 
three hours. Then fry it in hot water in cakes the 
size of your fryijig-pan, browning both sides, and 
when hot, dust nutmeg and a -thick coat pf white 
sugar over it and fold it as above. 

LUCY HOWARD PUDDING. 

Take one quart of milk and pwt it on to boil, 
then stir four spoonfuls of flour in cold ^ilk, and 
when the quart has boiled, pour it over the flour, 
^dd half a cup of butter and one large cup of sugar ; 



206 MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

when it is well mixed, beat tip six eggs, stir them 
in and bake. Very good for an invalid. 

DRIED APPLE PUDDING. 

Beat four eggs and stir them in eight large 
spoonfuls of stewed dried apples ; add one cup of 
milk and one spoonful of butter, season with lemon 
peel or extract, and bake in a pan. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Beat four eggs with two cups of sugar, one of 
butter, two of milk, and stir in four cups of flour 
with one teaspoonful of soda sifted in it. Bake in 
a pan and eat with sauce. 

TKANSPABENT PUDDING. 

Beat eight eggs separately until very light, melt 
half a pound of butter, and stir half a pound of 
sugar in it ; flavor with nutmeg and lemon, and bake 
it in puff paste. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Slice some apples, and put them in a pan on the 
top of the stove to stew in a little water ; make up 
a paste with lard rolled in flour that has been sifted 
with soda and cream tartar in it, make it in cake to 
fit in the pan, put it over the apples, cover it over, 
and let it cook until done. 
» 

DAUPHINE PUDDING. 

Line a pudding dish with paste and put in a 



PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. 207 

layer of sweetmeats or marmalade. Boil one pint 
of milk and stir in it three well beaten eggs, two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar and one of flour ; stir it over 
the fire until it thickens, and add a pinch of salt with 
some vanilla extract. Pour the mixtui'e over the 
sweetmeat and bake it in a moderate oVen. When 
it is done, cover it with a meringue made of the 
whites of four eggs and a teacup of sugar, return it 
to the oven, and slowly cook it until the meringue 
is a light brown. 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

Soak one pint of bread crumbs in one pint of 
milk, beat the yelks of eight eggs and whites of four 
with one cup of sugar, flavor with lemon, add one 
tablespoonful of butter, and bake it. Beat the four 
whites of egg that were left out with a cup of sugar, 
put it over the pudding as soon as baked and cook 
it until the meringue is a light brown. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Six eggs, three quarters of a pound of sugar, 
half a pound of butter, one pint of stewed apples, 
one cup of bread crumbs, flavored with nutmeg and 
lemon, and baked in a pan. 

META's. PUDDING. 

Take the whites of four eggs and one pound of 
unbroken loaf sugar ; rub the sugar on the 'rind of 
two lemons and then pound it fine. Beat the eggs 
to a stiff" froth and stir in the sugar, and the juice 



208 MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

of one lemon. Have pie plates lined with rich, 
h'ght pastry, and bake it half done ; cover it with 
the mixture and bake a few minutes ; do not let it 
brown. 

Julia's jelly pudding. 

Beat six eggs separately, put one cup of sugar in 
the yelks, one cup of melted butter drained off, one 
cup of jelly, and one of sweet cream ; add all with 
the eggs and sugar, then stir in the whites, and bake 
in a rich, light pastry. 

GYPSY PUDDING. 

Spread sponge cake, cut in thin slices, with jelly 
or marmalade, and put them together like sand- 
wiches, and lay thein in a dish. Make a rich 
boiled custard, and while hot, pour it over the cake. 
Let it cool before you serve it. 

Nannie's cocoanut pudding. 
The juice and grated peel of two lemons, one co- 
coanut grated, one pound of sugar, half a cup of 
butter, one pint of njilk, and the yelks of four eggs. 

RALEIGH PUDDING. 

Cream one cup of flour and eleven ounces of 
butter together. Beat ten eggs with three cups of 
sugar. Mix all with four grated oranges and bake 
in paste. 

SUFFOLK apple PIB. 

Cover a pie plate with pastry. Pare and core 



PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. 209 

apples, cut them in haU" and put them on the paste ; 
on each half put one tablespoonful of sugar and a 
piece of butter the size of a hickory nut, cover it 
with wine and bake it. 

SCOTLAND NECK APPLE PUDDING. 

Take one pint of stewed apples and beat six 
ounces of butter and twelve of sugar in them ; put 
the juice and grated peel of one lemon, half a nut- 
meg, one teacup of sponge cake crumbs, a few bitter 
almonds, and when the apples are cold, add six 
eggs well beaten. 

SCOTLAND NECK PLUM-PUDDING. 

One cup of molasses, same of butter and raisins, 
one cup of milk with teaspoonful of soda in it, flour 
enough to make a thick batter. Flavor with cin- 
namon and cloves. Boil it four hours and eat it 
with wine sauce. 

FAYETTEVILLE ORANGE PUDDING. 

Boil the peel of six oranges perfectly soft, change 
the water six or eight times while boiling, to prevent 
any bitter taste, and pound it in a marble mortar. 
Wash some fresh butter and after it has been well 
worked, weigh one half of a pound and mix it with 
half a pound of loaf sugar finely powdered, with the 
yelks of four eggs well beaten, and the pounded peel ; 
then add the whites of the eggs that are whipped 
to a stiff froth, with the pulp and juice of two 
oranges. Line baking pans with puff paste, and 

14 



210 MES. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE, 

bake quickly. When cold sprinkle sugar over the 
top. 

-FAYETTEVIILE LEMON PUDDING. 

Beat separately seven eggs. Add three quarters 
of a pound of loaf sugar with the yelks, then add 
half a pint of rich cream, and quarter of a pound of 
fresh butter nicely washed, two large tablespoonfuls 
of flour, the rind of two lemons, and, at the last, 
the juice of one. Directly after stirring in the 
whites of the eggs beat to a stiff froth. Bake 
them in puff paste in pie plates and eat them cold. 
If you use a range, put them above for crust to bake 
and pudding to rise before it begins to brown. 

FAYETTEVILLE CITRON PUDDING. 

Beat the yelks of sixteen eggs and the whites of 
four, add one pound of white sugar to the yelks, 
and then one pound of fresh butter, and a dessert- 
spoonful of flour, with a gill of wine, and half a 
pound of citron cut in slices and stirred in lightly. 
After it has been flavored, add the whites of eggs, 
and bake it in puff paste in a moderate oven or 
stove. 

MOCK COCOANUT PUDDING. 

Beat the whites of twelve eggs with one pound 
of white sugar, stir in half a pound of butter and 
three, tablespoonfuls of corn meal, season .with 
lemon extract, and bake it in puff paste. 

" Work " is the word for the times. Household occupation must 
not be looked upon as a drudgery or a disgrace. Work is a neces- 
sity, that we may realize the luxury of labor. Employment is hap- 



PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. 211 

piness, and the means of success, in every condition of life. 
Heaven itself would scarcely be heaven if it only recalled the idea 
of the wearied old woman who thought " she would have a nice 
time doing nothing forever ! " Activity in every duty, to your 
God, your parents, your husband, your neighbors, your servants, 
the poor around you, the sick and dying, and in every station in 
life, to which it hath pleased God to call you, is the true rest of 
soul and body. " ' It is dreadful to have nothing to do,' it is worse, 
a great deal worse, to do nothing. It is the death of life, a living 
death." 

Florence Nightingale in her letter on woman's work, says : " But 
to all women I would say, look upon your work, whether it be an 
accustomed or an unaccustomed work, as a trust confided to you. 
This will keep you alike from discouragement and from presump- 
tion, from idleness and from overtaxing yourself. Where God 
leads the way. He has bound Himself to help you go the way." 



212 MRS. Elliott's housewife. 



PICKLES AND SAUCES. 

GEEBN PICKLED CUCUMBERS. NO. 1. 

Gather small cucumbers with a short stem. 
Put them in salt and water brine, strong enough to 
bear an egg, let them remain in the brine well cov- 
ered for three days (always put a flannel rag on 
the top of the brine to take up the scum, and wash 
it off every morning), the third day pour your brine 
off in a clean brass kettle, and give it a boil up ; pour 
it hot on the pickles. Do this for three mornings and 
stop three until you scald them nine times. Then, 
when cold, place them on dishes to drain, and in 
your porcelain kettle put sufficient vinegar to cover 
them, according to the size of your jar. Put in 
some allspice, cloves, cinnamon, few blades of mace, 
pod of green pepper, piece of horse-radisb root, 
race ginger, few mustard seed, and spiced cucum- 
bers (from the apothecary's), with one cup of su- 
gar. Boil these up well, pour hot over the pickles, 
and tie closely. When perfectly cold, open, and if 
not under vinegar, add enough to fill the jar to the 
brim. They will keep good for two years, and you 
will find them number one. 

SLICED CUCUMBEE PICKLE. 

Gather them full grown, before they begin to 



PICKLES AND SAUCES. 213 

turn yellow, peel off the green rind, slice them tol- 
erably thick, fill a large bowl with them and a few 
onions cut small. Sprinkle a little salt between 
each layer, let them stand six hours, then put all 
in a colander to drain. When the liquor has run 
off, put them in your jars with cayenne pepper be- 
tween each layer, and cover well with strong cider 
vinegar. When full, put two tablespoonfuls of good 
sweet oil on the top and cover close. Two weeks 
after, pour this vinegar off and add fresh. 

PEFPEK VINEGAR PICKLE. 

Boil one dozen pods of red pepper in two quarts 
of vinegar (always using porcelain kettles for boil- 
ing vinegar), soak cucumbers, tomatoes, or young 
cimblins that you have had in salt brine for two 
days, put them in a brass kettle with grape leaves 
on the sides and bottom, put a pint of vinegar and 
quart of water on them and let them slowly heat 
through. Drop them hot in the pepper vinegar, 
and if not enough, when cold, add vinegar to cover 
them. 

ONION PICKLE. 

Put your onions in a brine of salt and water and 
let them remain one week ; then put them in fi-esh 
water, change it twice every day, and let it remain 
three days. Stick each onion with a clove, and 
pack them in a jar with pepper, mace, and allspice. 
Sprinkle between and cover them well with cold 
vinegar. 



214 MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



DAMSON AND CHERRY PICKLES. 

Weigh the fruit. To five pounds of fruit, put 
three pounds of sugar, one quart of vinegar, two 
ounces of cinnamon, same of cloves, half the quan- 
tity of mace. Put the fruit in a jar. Boil the 
vinegar, sugar, and spices, and pour them boiling 
hot on the fruit. 

CABBAGE PICKLE. 

Quarter cabbages and split the quarter, put them 
in a wooden tray, and sprinkle each piece with salt. 
Let it remain twenty-four hours, then drain them 
from the salt. After it is well drained, pack it in a 
jar with a layer of sugar, some onion chopped fine, 
and different kinds of spices. Boil sufficient vine- 
gar to cover it, and pour on boiling hot ; tie it up 
closely. For a two gallon jar, with cabbage in it, 
one gallon of vinegar will answer. 

MARY'o SWEET PICKLED CUCUMBER. 

Take two pounds of sugar, one ounce of cloves, 
one of cinnamon, and one pint of vinegar. Boil 
them and remove the scum. Take ripe cucumbers, 
scrape out the pulp, and cut them in strips one inch 
thick. Put them in cold water for five minutes, 
and then in the pickle to boil imtil you can put a 
quill easily through. Tie them up tightly in a jar, 
and keep in a cool place. Ripe cantelopes can be 
put up in the same way. 



PICKLES AND SAUCES. 215 



SWEET PICKLED WATER-MELON KIND. 

Put the rind of water-melon in salt for three days, 
then soak it in clear water until fresh (two days 
may answer), then scald it in vinegar and water. 
Next day boil as much vinegar as it will require to 
cover the quantity you make, with, a few cloves, 
some cinnamon, mace, allspice, ginger, and a little 
black pepper, with sugar to the taste, and pour it 
over the rind while hot. 

RIPE CUCUMBER MUSTARD PICKLE. 

Peel ripe cucumbers and lay them in salt six 
hours. Drain them through a colander, get some 
good English mustard, put a layer of cucumber cut 
in slices, cover it with mustard, a little black pep- 
per, and a little sugar. Fill the jar in this way and 
pour hot vinegar over it, with a few spices boiled in 
and strained out. 

PICKLED PEPPERS. 

Gather large bell pepper, put it in a weak brine 
of salt and water, boiling hot ; pour it off, and scald 
them with it three mornings. If green as you 
wish, take them out and put them, in vinegar 
and water for a few dayg, with a bit of alum in it. 
If not green, boil the vinegar and water up, and 
pour it over them, and let it stand until cold, then 
drop them in strong, cold vinegar, and tie up 
closely. W * 



216 MBS, ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



PEPPER MANGOES. 

Prepare bell pepper by the above recipe, fill it 
with cabbage chopped fine, miustard seed, horse- 
radish, /ew celery seed, and a little allspice. Tie 
them with wide strips of muslin and drop them in 
cold vinegar. Put ci'oss sticks over the top of pick- 
les to keep them from floating. They keep well if 
kept under the vinegar. If you wish the seed 
taken out of peppers, do it after they are scalded. 
Stick a knife in them when you first gather for 
pick ing. 

PICKLED EGG3. 

Boil fresh eggs very hard, put them in cold 
water, and remove the shells. When cold, take a 
sharp knife and cut them open lengthways as 
smoothly as possible. Lay them carefully in wide 
mouth jars. Boil some vinegar, with whole pepper, 
allspice, ginger, and a few cloves of garlic in it, and 
pour it scalding hot on the e^gs. Tie up closel}' and 
let them stand one month. They are then fit for 
use and very delicate. 

PICKLED TOMATOES. 

Select tomatoes not over ripe, and wipe them 
with a soft cloth. Put them in a jar with a few 
shallots and silver onipns that have been pickled. 
Boil some vinegar with a few spices, and when 
perfectly cold, pour it over them and close the 
jar tight. ' 4^ 



PICKLES AND SAUCES. 217 



TO PICKLE PLUMS. 

Gather green plums before they begin to turn ; 
make a pickle of mustard seed, a little salt, and vin- 
egar, boil it three mornings, and pour it hot over 
the plums. They resemble olives, and answer when 
you cannot get the olive to put in sauce. 

PICKLED PEA.CHES. 

Put large cling-stone peaches in a kettle lined 
■with grape leaves, sprinkle a bit of saleratus -among 
them, cover with salt and water, and simmer them 
over a slow fire until green. Boil vinegar enough 
to cover them, with whole pepper, allspice, ajjd 
mustard seed, and scald them with it four morn- 
ings. 

SWEET PICKLED PEACH. 

Take two pounds of peaches cut in half. Boil 
one pound of sugar and one pint of vinegar with a 
little ginger and pour over them, pour it off, boil, 
and scald nine mornings. 



A cool dark closet is the best place for picEies. 

OLD VIRGINIA CHOW CHOW. 

Three pecks of ripe tomatoes, three of green, five 
large heads of cabbages, one dozen green peppers, 
same of ripe, half a pound of celery ; chop very fine, 
cover it with salt, and let it stand twenty-four hours. 
Then drain the brin* off thorougnly ; cover it with 
vinegar and three pounds of sugar. Scald it over 



218 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

an hour in a porcelain kettle, take it off, and add 
one cup of scraped horse-radish, one of mustard 
seed, ounce of cloves, two ounces of spice, same of 
ginger, and one -of ground mustard. Tie it up close, 
and let it stand a month before using it. 

PICKLED CHERKIES. 

Boil one quart of vinegar with two pounds of 
sugar, few sticks of cinnamon, and whole cloves, 
and skim it nicely ; when perfectly cold, drop ripe 
cherries in it and keep them under the pickle. 
They retain their flavor and keep well. 

MELON MANGOES. 

Take young cantelopes, large as a good sized or- 
ange, put them in a strong brine of salt and water, and 
let them remain twenty-four hours ; then take them 
out and cut jiown one of the slices (only one cut ; 
it will readily open after being in the brine, and is 
far better than cutting out the slice or plug) ; slip 
your finger in and clean the seeds out nicely, then 
put|^^m in cold water to rinse them. After all 
are cleaned, return them to the brine, and scald 
them several mornings, by pouring the brine off in 
a brass kettle and giving it a boil up (small bit of 
alum in the jar improves them). When green as 
yon wish, scald them in part vinegar and water and 
let them remain in it three days ; then prepare a 
stuffing of cabbage cut fine, mustard seed, few celery 
seed, pickled cucumber cut rnie, onion if you like 
it, horse-radish scraped, allspice, cloves, pieces of 



PICKLES AND SAUCES. 219 

cinnamon, teaspoonful of sugar to each melon, and 
few grains of pepper. Fill them with this mixture, 
putting in one at a time, and put them in a stonejar, 
and cover well with strong cider vinegar. Some 
persons like one teaspoonful of salad oil in every 
mango. Have strips of bleached cottons half an 
inch wide to tie around the melon and secure the 
stuffing. These are good two years old. 

CUCtJMBER MANGOES. 

Prepare your cucumbers as for plain pickle ; have 
large, full-grown ones for mangoes ; make an incision 
length way of the cucumber; don't take anything 
out, but gently fill it with the same stuffing given 
for melons. You will be surprised to see how much 
you can put in it ; secure it with strips wound 
around it, put it in a jar, and fill with cold vinegar, 
with pieces of horse-radish, ginger root, and allspice 
over them. 

PEACH MANGOES. 

Use the same stuffing and open them caref^y to 
extract the seed, after being in salt and water^two 
days. Boil the vinegar with a teacup of sugar and 
poni' on them. 

WATER-MELON SWEET PICKLE. 

^Ittt ten pounds of water-melon rind in strips or 
any shape you choose (taking oS" the green part) ; 
put it in a porcelain kettle with water enough to 
cover it, and give it one good boil up ; drain it in 



220 MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

a colander and put it in a stone jar. Boil one 
quart of vinegar, two pounds of sugar, and one 
ounce of cinnamon together, and pour it hot on 
the rind in the jar, and repeat it three mornings. 
Then tie up the jar and use when you wish it. 

PEACH SWEET PICKLE. 

Peel peaches that are nearly ripe, weigh thenij 
and put them in a porcelain kettle with half their 
quantity of sugar, half a pint of vinegar to each 
pound, some cloves, allspice, and cinnamon, and 
cook them until the syrup looks a little thick. 
To a peck of peaches, twelve cloves, tablespoonful 
of allspice, and one of cinnamon will be sufficient. 

RIPE PEACHES PICKLE. 

Peel them and drop them in vinegar that has 
been boiled with one teacup of sugar to one 
quart of vinegar. 

SWEET PICKLE CANTELOPES. 

Take ripe cantelopes, peel the rind off and cut 
in sEces, clean the seeds out nicely and shave 
out the soft part (the eighth of an inch) next to the 
seed. After preparing as many as you wish to put 
up in this way, weigh them, and put them in stone 
jars. Have your porcelain kettle ready ; and put 
one half the weight of the cantelope in sugar and 
half a pint of vinegar to one pound of sugar in it ; 
add one ounce of stick cinnamon to every ten 
pounds, and one teaspoonful of allspice. Boil it all 



PICKLES ANB SAUCES: 221 

together and pour it hot over the cantelope in the 
jars ; do this with the same poured off three morn- 
ings ; the fourth morning put all in the kettle and 
cook until the cantelope is soft enough to put a straw 
in it. 

SWEET PICKLE DAMSONS. 

To one pound of damsons allow three quarters of 
a pound of brown sugar, six cloves, half a teaspoon- 
ful allspice, and three inch stick of cinnamon. Put 
the damsons in a jar. Boil the other ingredients, 
and pour over them, and repeat five mornings. 

GKEEN TOMATO SAXJCE. 

Slice four gallons of green tomatoes ; put in 
three tablespoonfuls best English mustard, three 
giUs of mustard seed, two spoonfuls of pepper, 
three of salt, one of allspice, one teaspoonful of 
cloves, pint of chopped onions, one quart of sugar, 
five pints of vinegar, one half teacup of celery 
seed. Boil it two hours. 

SWEET PICKLE PEAKS. 

Weigh peeled pears and put them m a jar ; to 
every pound allow three quarters of a pound of 
sugar and half a pint of vinegar. Put the sugar 
and vinegar in a porcelain kettle with some sticks of 
cinnamon and a few cloves. Boil it and pour it hot 
over the pears three mornings, then put all in the 
kettle, and give them one boil up. 



222 MES. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



CABBAGE FICKLE. 

Quarter and half quarter of nice solid cabbage, 
cover it with salt, and let it stand twenty-four hours ; 
drain and dry it. Put on as much vinegar as 
you wish in a . porcelain kettle with mustard seed, 
allspice, cinnamon bark, and a little sugar ; when 
it boils put the cabbage in and let it cook half 
an hour. This keeps better than any I ever put up. 

PICKLED GHEKKIN, 

Cut the gherkins with a short stem, pack them in 
salt, and let them lie one week. Drain them nicely, 
and pack them in a jar with vine leaves^ and keep 
them in the comer of the fire-place or near a stove, 
well eovered with vinegar and water, with a small 
piece of alum in it for several days to green. 
When as green as you wish, cover them with vine- 
gar and a few spices. If they do not heat in the 
jar, boil the vinegar up and pour over them. 

TO PICKLE SWEET APPLES. 

To one peck of apples make a syrup of four 
pounds of sugar and one quart of vinegar. Boil 
the apples in the syrup until tender, and then 
take them out and save that syrup for other sauce. 
Put the apples in a jar, boil five pounds of sugar 
and one quart of vinegar with some cinnamon and 
cloves twenty minutes, and pour it hot over the 
apples. This is a delicious pickle and keeps well. 



PICKLES AND SAUCES. 223 



RIPE CHERRIES PICKLED. 

Drop them in cold vinegar with the stems on. 
Boil it one week after, let it cool, and return it to 
the cherries. 

OYSTER CATCHUP. 

Take one gallon of large oysters and wash them 
in their liquor. Put them in a marble mortar with 
a teaspoonfnl of salt, four blades of mace, and one 
ounce of cayenne pepper. Pound them up well and 
add half a pint of wine to each pint of liquor ; give 
it a boil, and then strain it through a sieve or col- 
ander and boil it again. Skim it well, add a glass 
of brandy to the gallon, bottle it, and you can al- 
ways have the oyster flavor with any sauce or 
meats. 

CELERY VINEGAR. 

Pound half a pint of celery seed and mix them 
in a quart of cider vinegar, with a few mustard 
seed and teaspoonfnl of sugar. Shake it often and 
strain it off in twenty days for use. This is healthy 
and decidedly agreeable. 

THYME AND MINT VINEGAR. 

Pick the leaves of mint or thyme and put one 
handful to a quart of vinegar. Strain it off every 
morning for three days, and put in fresh leaves. 
Never let it stand longer than twenty-four hours in 
the vinegar. The third day, strain and bottle it to 
be used for sauces, when the fresh leaf cannot be 
had. 



224 MES. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



CtrcUMBEK CATCHUP. 

Chop up fine three dozen peeled cucumbers and 
eight peeled onions, sprinkle three quarters of a 
pint of fine table salt over them. Put it in a sieve 
or colander and let it drain twelve hours. Then 
mix one teacupfiil of mustard seed and half the 
quantity of ground black pepper. Put it in a stone 
jar, after you have mixed it well, and cover it with 
strong cider vinegar. Tie it up close. Good to 
use in three days, and keeps well. 

CUCUMBER CATCHUP. NO. 2. 

Peel two dozen cucumbers, put them in a flat 
dish and sprinkle salt over themj let them stand 
three hours, then drain and wipe them dry. Grate 
them with a coarse grater, season them with pep- 
per, and put one quart of strong vinegar on them. 
Bottle the catchup in wide mouthed bottles, and use 
it in the winter. Bags of coarse cloth are good to 
put the grated cucumber in to drain. Onion must 
be put with it if liked. 

RIPE TOMATO CATCHUP. 

Peel a half bushel of tomatoes ; add one quart of 
good vinegar, one pound of salt, half a pound of 
black pepper, two ounces of cayenne pepper, half 
a pound of allspice, one ounce of cloves, six large 
onions, and two pounds of brown sugar, and a few 
peach leaves. Boil it in a porcelain kettle, and 
strain it or not as you choose. 



PICKLES AND SAUCES. 225 



WALNUT CATCHTTP. 

Gather one peck of walnuts when you can easily 
put a knitting-needle through them ; have them 
broken in small pieces with a mallet. Put them in 
a jar with one pound of salt and two quarts of cider 
vinegar. Let them remain three weeks, then strain 
them through a colander. Set the liquor aside ; put 
one quart of vinegar on the pieces of walnut, and 
let it remain twenty-four hours. Then mash them 
in the vinegar and strain the liquor off through a 
cloth, carefully pressing it. Put all in the kettle, 
with an ounce of black pepper, quarter of an ounce 
of cloves, half an ounce of ginger, same of nutmeg, 
and a teacup of sugar. Boil it well for half an 
hour. Strain it, and when cold, bottle and seal it. 

TOMATO CATCHUP. NO. 2. 

Fill a large jar with peeled ripe tomatoes, put it 
in an oven of cold water, and let them cook for 
three hours, with a piece of dough over the top of 
the jar. Then strain it through a colander and 
put to every pint of the juice a half pint of cider 
vinegar, one small onion, one large spoonful of salt, 
same of pepper and sugar. Put all in a porcelain 
kettle and boil it until as thick as honey. This is 
very fine, and the tomato flavor well preserved. 

TOMATO CATCHUP. NO. 3. 

Put one peck of tomatoes, eight tablespoonfials 
16 



226 MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

of salt, same of black pepper, one of allspice and 
cloves, twelve pods of red pepper, and six spoonfuls 
of mustard together. Boil it one hour and a half. 
Strain it through a sieve and when cold, bottle and 
seal it. Always make a sieve of netting over a 
hoop for catchups. 

TOMATO CATCHUP. NO. 4. 

Boil half a bushel button tomatoes (small round 
ones)', wash them but not skin. 'Let them boil two 
hours. Then strain them through a sieve, and 
to every quart of juice add one tablespoonful of 
ground cinnamon bark, one of black pepper, one of 
mustard, half of cayenne and nutmeg, and two of 
salt. Boil all together three hours. Then put one 
quart of vinegar to half a gallon of juice and boil 
half an hour. Bottle when cold and seal it. 

KANDOLPh's TOMATO CATCHUP. 

Take one peck of fine red ripe tomatoes^ wash 
them in cold water, and put them in a preserving 
kettle without any water. Sprinkle in three large 
spoonfiils of salt; let them boil steadily an hour, 
stirring them frequently ; then press them through 
a colander, and then through a hair sieve. Wash 
out your kettle, return the liquid, put it on the fire, 
with one pint of chopped onions, half a quarter of 
an ounce of mace broke into small pieces, and 
tablespoonful of whole black pepper. Boil it down 
until consistency of thick honey, and just enough to 
fill two bottles. Dry weather in August is the best 



PICKLES AND SAUCES. 227 

time to put tomato up in catchup or for soups. 
This recipe I have tested twenty years, and never 
knew it fail to keep well. 

TOMATO CATCHUP VFITH VINEGAR. 

Put one peck of ripe tomatoes in a porcelain ket- 
tle, cut up in quarters ; add one pint of cider vinegar, 
teacup of sugar, one gill of mustard seed, teaspo(,n- 
ful of black pepper, teaspoonful of salt, one blade 
of mace, one dozen grains of cloves, and two dozen 
of allspice. Boil all an hour and strain through a 
colander. Bottle when cold and cork tight. 

HORSE-RADISH SAUCE. 

Scrape or grate the root of horse-radish after the 
outer bark has been well cleaned. Spread it on a 
dish and sprinkle a little salt, cayenne pepper, su- 
gar, celery seed, and as many mustard seeds as you 
choose. Boil some cider vinegar with a few cloves 
and grains of allspice, and when cold mix it with 
the ingredients in the dish, and put it in wide 
mouthed bottles. 

GREEN TOMATO SOY, FROM MRS. GRANBERRY. 

Put a layer of tomatoes, cut in slices, and onions 
in a jar, with salt sprinkled between each layer ; let 
it stand thirty-six hours, then wash the salt out 
and drain them. To one gallon put half an ounce 
of mace, same of black pepper, allspice, celery seed, 
and cinnamon. Put them in three quarts of vine- 
gar with one teacup of mixed mustard seed, and 



228 MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

half a pound of brown sugar, and boil it np. 
Then pour in the tomato and onion and let it boil 
ten minutes. Put it in a jar hot and add a gill of 
sweet on, if you like it. 

HOKSE-KADISH VINEGAR. ' 

Scrape the root, and put a teaspoonful of sugar 
and a little black pepper with it in cold vinegar. 

CHOW CHOW. NO. 2. 

Gut up enough white cabbage to weigh eight 
pounds ;. weigh eight pounds of sugar ; grate one 
teacup of horse-radish ; cut fine four pods of green 
pepper. Put the cabbage in a large jar, layer of 
cabbage, then sugar, pepper, and horse-radish, with 
tablespoonful of salt, until the jar is filled. Put a 
small piece of alum in and cover it well with vine- 
gar and one pound of mustard seed. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLE. 

Cut up green tomatoes in slices, put a layer of 
tomatoes, a little salt, a layer of chopped onion, 
then sugar, mustard seed, some scraped horse-rad- 
ish, and bits of ginger. When the jar is filled, cover 
it with strong cider vinegar. 

COOKED GREEN TOMATO PICKLE. 

Cut in slices one peck of tomatoes, salt them, and 
let them stand twenty-four hours ; then drain them 
and let them dry. Put them in a porcelain kettle 
with b&lf a pound mustard seed, half a pound of 



PICKLES AND SAUCES. 229 

sugar, a few cloves and allspice. Cover them with 
vinegar and boil one hour, stirring them well. 

WALNUT PICKLE. 

Gather young walnuts when you can run a pin 
easily through them. Peel them to the kernel, put 
them in a strong brine of salt and water, and scald 
them nine days. Pour the brine off every morning ; 
boil it up, and pour it back. After the ninth scald, 
soak them in part vinegar and water for three days. 
Then boil sufficient vinegar to cover them, with 
cloves, allspice, ginger, mustard seed, cinnamon, and 
horse-radish. Pour it boiling hot on the walnuts 
after they have been drained from the vinegar and 
water, and tie up tight. The pickles are nice, and 
the liquor one of the best catchups made. 

PEACH PICKLE. 

Put green peaches in a weak brine for two days, 
take them out, and wipe them dry. Put them in a 
jar with spices between each layer, and cover them 
well with cold vinegar. 

AKTICHOKE PICKLE. 

Wash them clean, put them, in salt and water, 
and two days after, wipe dry, and put them in 
vinegar. 

FANNIE's VINEGAR SAUCE. 

Take one gallon of vinegar, half an ounce of 
ground black pepper, two boxes of best mustard. 



230 MES. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

half an ounce of red pepper, half an ounce of 
ground spice, one pound of sugar, half a pound of 
horse-radish grated. Mix it well and bottle it for 
meats. 

fannie's tomato catchup. 
Peel one gallon of tomatoes, put four tablespoon- 
fiils of black pepper, same of salt, two of mustard, 
and one of allspice in them, and one quart of strong 
vinegar ; add sugar to the taste (one half pound 
may do), put it in a kettle, and simmer it eight 
hours over a slow fire. 

SOUR-KEOUT. 

Line a clean barrel with cabbage leaves on the 
bottom and short distance up the sides. Then put 
a layer of fine cut cabbage, three inches high, and 
sprinkle four tablespoonfuls of salt on it ; press it 
tight with the hand. Put in four layers this way, 
and then pack hard with a wooden pounder. Four 
more layers and another pounding, and so on until 
the barrel is full. Cover with cabbage leaves, and 
put a board and weight on it, and set it away to fer- 
ment. At the end of three weeks, remove the 
scum, and if necessary, add water enough to cover 
the krout. 

sauce for winter. 
Cut up five pounds of white cabbage, five pounds 
of full grown green tomatoes, three pounds of on- 
ions, one pound of full grown green pepper. Mix 



PICKLES AND SAUCES. 231 

them well with one ounce whole grains of black 
pepper, same of allspice and cloves, one ounce of 
mint leaves, and one and a half of salt. Pack it in 
a clean vessel, put a weight on the top, keep it in a 
cool place, and in two months it will be nice to use 
with meats. 

Nona's chow chow. 
Chop three heads of cabbage ; take half a pint 
white mustard seed, same of horse-radish scraped ; 
put a layer of cabbage in a jar, then the seed and 
radish, and cover them with a sprinkle of salt. 
Do this until the jar is full, and cover with cider 
vinegar, and put in two ounces of sugar. 

ANOTHER CHOW CHOW. 

Three gallons of chopped cabbage, one teacupful 
of black and white mustard seed, six pods of red 
pepper chopped fine, two dozen cucumbers out of 
salt, eight onions, half a cup of ground allspice, pep- 
per, cloves, ginger, and horse-radish, chop a little 
green celery, and mix it all in a jar. Boil enough 
vinegar to cover it, with two ounces of sugar to a 
quart. 

MRS. baker's premium MANGOES. VA. 

Put small melons or cucumbers in strong brine 
of salt and water for two days ; scald them three 
times by boiling the brine and pouring it back over 
them. Then mix half vinegar and water and scald 
them three days in that. For a three-gallon jar 



232 MKS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

take one teacup of black pepper, same of allspice, 
one and a half of ginger, half an ounce of mace, 
same of cloves, and beat all together, but not fine. 
Chop one large head of cabbage and eight onions, 
scrape two teacups of horse-radish and mix one 
quart of white and black mustard seed. Weigh 
five pounds of sugar, put one teaspoonful in each 
mango, and mix part of the spices with three cups 
of it and add the cabbage and onion. Fill the man- 
goes, then take the balance of the sugar and spices 
and boil in sufficient vinegar to fill the jar ; pour it 
boiling hot over them and tie up closely. 

MUSHROOM CATCHUP. 

Take one peck of mushroom flaps from the stem, 
wash, salt, and crush them. Boil them three hours, 
and strain them through a cloth; put the. liquor on 
the fire with salt to taste, cloves and garlic the 
same, and boil until the quantity is reduced one 
half. A very few cloves of garlic and fourth of an 
ounce of cloves is quite enough for a peck. 

MRS. Stewart's chopped pickxe. s. c. 
Two gallons of green tomatoes sliced, five table- 
spoons of ground mustard, three gills of white mus- 
tard seed, two tablespoonfuls of allspice, two of 
cloves, one gill of salt, one quart of chopped onions, 
one pound of sugar, one gallon of vinegar, two ta- 
blespoons of ground ginger. Put into a kettle and 
boil till it becomes thick and the tomatoes look 
clear. 



ICKLES AND SAUCES. 283 



MRS. STEWART S GREEN TOMATO CATCHUP. S. C. 

Stew sliced green tomatoes till they can run 
through a coarse sieve. Add some good strong vin- 
egar, a little salt, sugar, black pepper, mustard, and 
onions chopped fine, and cook well. One gallon of 
tomato juice, half gallon of vinegar, two tablespoon- 
fuls of salt, six of black pepper, three onions, half 
pint of mustard seed, and half pound of sugar, will 
be the right proportion. 

OIL MANGOES. 

Mix one quart of white and black mustard seed, 
add one ounce of mace, same of cloves, four ounces 
of horse-radish scraped, the same of ground ginger 
and garlic, with a little turmeric, celery seed, and 
sugar. Beat them together in a mortar and make 
into a paste with oil. If your mangoes have been 
greened and prepared in the usual way for pickles, 
fill them with this paste and cover them over with 
boiling hot vinegar and tie them up closely. 

TURMERIC PICKLE. 

Slice cucumbers and onions, equal parts, and put 
them in salt and- water; change it everyday for 
three days. Then scald them in vinegar. To 
three gallons put one cup of allspice, same of mus- 
tard and black pepper, two pounds of brown sugar, 
and enough turmeric to color it yellow. Put it in 
ajar with a dessert-spoonful of sweet oil and a layer 
of spice on each layer of cucumber and onion. 
Cover it with cold vinegar and stir frequently. 



234 MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



OXFORD SAUCE. 

Half a gallon of vinegar, half a tablespoonfiil of 
cayenne pepper, half a teaspoonful of allspice, two 
spoonfiils scraped horse-radish, one gill of ground 
mustard, and a quarter of a pound of sugar. Mix 
all well together, and bottle it for fish or meats. 

RED PEPPER CATCHUP. 

Take four dozen pods of ripe or green peppers, 
two quarts of vinegar, one quart of water, three ta- 
blespoonfiils of grated horse-radish, five onions sliced, 
one handful of garlic, and boil it until the onion is 
soft. Then strain it, and when cold bottle it. 

FRENCH PICKLE. 

Chop one gallon of cabbage, quart of onions, half 
gallon green tomatoes, six pods of peppers, three 
tablespoonfuls of mustard, one of ginger, cloves, 
cinnamon, celery seed, horse-radish, two of salt, 
quarter of a pound of sugar, half a gallon of vinegar. 
Cover with salt one hour, arid then add vinegar 
and spices, and boil until tender. 

"STBENGTH AND HONOR ABE HEE CLOTHIKG." 

Strength is given to enable you to discharge faithfdlly the 
duties incumbent on, and necessarily intrusted to the head of the 
family, and strength of mind to administer to the daily wants of 
your household. The infant is to be taught and trained by you 
for the special service for which God created it. Teach it honesty 
and truthfulness from the mother's breast. Teach it to honor 
father and mother, and exemplify that .command by your daily 
life. .V. oer deceive the one you have chosen to be a companion, 



PICKLES AND SAUCES. 235 

While he provides for the bodily wants of each, you should train 
his child to maintain the honor due unto his name. Let all your 
wants and cares be known to him ; strengthen his love by 
honoring his word ; strengthen his happiness by seeing you 
are happy; strengthen his hope of eternal life, by your 
Christian walk and conversation. Let him honor you as the 
mother of his child by the gentle influence of the necessary disci- 
pline it is your duty to exert ; and you, strengthened by his smile 
of approval, may cause future generations to clothe your names 
with strength and honor. 



236 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



CAKE. 

REMARKS ON MAKING CAKE. 

Before commencing operations for cake making, 
have placed on a table, first, your scales to weigh ; 
second, plates and dishes to turn the different 
ingredients in ; third, a larg^ earthen bowl or tin 
pan that is commonly called a dish-pan ; fourth, a 
large_dish ; fifth, a wooden bowl or tray with a sieve 
in it ; sixth, a cup or glass tumbler ; seventh, a 
wire egg whip ; eighth, a large spoon or wire spoon ; 
ninth, a nutmeg or large grater ; tenth, a rolling-pin 
and biscuit board ; eleventh, the pans you wish to 
bake in, — nicely greased with lard, and paper cut 
to fit evenly in the bottom. Weigh your flour and 
turn it in the sieve ; then your sugar and put it in a 
plate ; then your butter and put it in the flour 
(after sifting it in the tray). If your sugar js 
coarse or lumpy, place it on the biscuit board 
and roll it with the rolling-pin and then run it 
through the sieve. Cream the butter and flour 
together until smooth and white. Break your 
eggs, whites in the large flat dish, yelks in the 
wooden bowl or large tin pan that the whole is to 
be mixed in ; beat them well and then add your 
sugar. Recollect it is of more importance to beat 
the yelks and sugar light than any other part of the 



CAKK. 237 

cake. When light, put in a small piece of the flour 
and butter at the time, and mix it well in, occasion- 
ally adding some of the white of egg that has been 
beaten to a stiff froth ; continue adding the whites 
until all are well stirred in. Have brandy in your 
cup or glass, and your nutmeg grated in it ; mix 
it well, and pour it slowly in with any extract you 
may prefer. Give the whole one hard beat, and then 
fill your pans and follow directions for cake baking. 
Read over your directions, and see if you have 
not brought into requisition all the eleven articles 
named to be used, and after having them all 
nicely cleaned, return them to their respective 
places in closet or pantry, until cake-making day 
again requires their use. If you make small 
cakes you must roll them on your biscuit board, 
and then you will require tin cutters of different 
shapes or a glass tumbler. Flour your board well 
and roll the dough out in sheets, and cut them out ; 
gather up the pieces around the shape, work it 
up, roll out again, or mix it with the next piece 
you break off; have your. stove pans in readiness 
and fill them, or put them on the board and tray 
and send them to the Dutch oven, following 
directions for cooking small cakes. If you make 
jumbles and have not a mould to put your dough in, 
roll it out with the hand and sprinkle fine sugar 
on the board in place of the flour. If cake 
batter for small cakes, have the pans all greased, 
put them on a large waiter, and send them to be 
baked, and as soon as the .first are done turn the 



238 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

cake out, put the pans in hot water, wash and wipe 
them dry, then grease again and fill as the first, 
always allowing room for them to rise ; when done, 
let them cool before packing them away. 

REMARKS ON BAKING. 

To tell a quick oven, hold your hand in until you 
count twenty ; slow one, count thirty. The lid of 
the oven must be heated until it browns flour, to do 
nice baking, and the degree of heat kept up by con- 
stantly adding fine embers on the lid and under- 
neath. In baking cake in a Dutch oven, never let 
a large coal be on the lid or under, as it will bake a 
hole through the cake. Raise the lid as seldom as 
possible, turn the oven occasionally, and always put 
a ring of embers on the hearth, in front of the oven, 
to keep equal heat. When the cake begins to brown 
on the top, raise the lid, and cover the oven with 
paper, then put the lid on. The paper prevents its 
being too brown. Keep more fire under than on 
the top, as it rises better. When the cake leaves the 
sides of the pan, run a steel knife through it, and if 
it comes out clean it is done. Brush the fire from 
the oven and let it remain a few minutes ; take it 
out, and wrap a towel around the pan a short time. 
If it does not come out easily, wet a cloth with cold 
water and put it on the bottom of the pan, and turn 
it over on a plate ; knock the sides and it will come 
out smooth. Wheat bread is cooked (like cakes) 
in a slow oven ; corn meal should have a quick 
oven. Never put a cake to bake in a hot stove ; 



CAKE. 239 

let- it be cool, and raise the heat as the cake rises. 
Biscuit must be baked in a quick oven, hot enough 
to brown flour ; crackers in a slow one ; sugar tea 
cakes in a quick, and molasses in a slow oven. 
Graduate the heat of the stove for baking by the 
dampers. 

Bella's fruit cake. 

Prepare the day before it is wanted, one pound 
of currants, well washed and dried, stone two 
pounds of raisins, and cut in shreds half a pound of 
citron. Next morning beat twelve eggs separately, 
stir one pound of sugar in the yelks, cream one 
pound of flour and one of butter together, and mix 
it well with the eggs and sugar; flour your fruit 
well and slowly stir it in; layer of raisins, then 
currants and citron until all are in ; then stir in a 
glass of brandy (half gill), one tablespoonful of 
ground cloves, one of cinnamon, and one of mace. 
When well mixed, pour it in a pound and a half tin 
pan or mould, place it in a warm oven or stove, 
and bake slowly for three hours. 

BROWN SUGAR CAKES. 

Two quarts of flour, sift and rub quarter of a 
pound of butter in it ; beat together ten eggs, and 
one and a half pounds of sugar ; stir in it a wine- 
glass of brandy, with a nutmeg and some orange 
peel grated in it ; then work the flour and butter 
up with it, roll it out, and bake in a stove pan or 
oven, in cakes cut out with a shape. 



240 MES. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



jtjlia's gingerbread. 
Stir half a pouod of brown sugar, and half a pound 
of butter together ; add one pint of molasses, large 
teaspoonful of cinnamon, one of allspice, and one of 
cloves, with four tablespoonfuls of ginger ; then al- 
ternately, five beaten eggs and one pound and a 
half of flour ; stir it well, and at the last put in. half 
a teaspoonful of pearlash or cooking soda well dis- 
solved, and bake in a pan. 

COMMON GINGERBREAD. 

Rub one pound of butter and two and a half 
pounds of flour together; put in half a pound of 
brown sugar, three tablespoonfuls of ginger, and 
teaspoonful of pearlash dissolved. Make it in a 
stifi^ dough with one pint of milk and half a pint of 
molasses ; roll out in thin cakes, cut them with 
cake cutters, and bake. 

LUCt's THIN GINGER CAKES. 

Sift four large tablespoonfiils of ginger with two 
quarts of flour ; rub in half a pound of butter or 
lard, and make it in a dough with molasses, thick 
enough to roll out, and cut with shapes or a tumbler; 
roll them thin, and bake in stove pans or oven. 

GINGER CAKES. 

Beat three eggs well, add half a pint of cream, 
then put it in a saucepan over the fire, and stir un- 
til warm. Put in one pound of butter, one and a 



CAKE. 241 

half pounds of white sugar, two and a half pounds 
of ginger ; stir it carefully over the fire until the 
butter is melted. Then . pour it on two pounds of 
floui", form a paste, break it as you do biscuit, roll 
it out, and cut it with thin shapes. Bake in a 
warm oven. 

GINGERBREAD NUTS. 

Rub one quarter of a pound of butter in one 
pound of flour, half a pound of sugar, ounce of 
ginger, peel of one lemon, and three eggs. Work 
it well and bake in small thin cakes, rolled out. 

• KNOX GINGER-CAKES. 

Five cups of flour, four eggs, one cup of sugar, 
one of butter, one of sour milk, half cup of molas- 
ses, one tablespoonful of ginger, teaspoonful of 
soda. Roll out and bake. 

LOUISIANA GINGER-CAKE. 

Heat one pint of molasses ; put in a cup of but- 
ter, melted, three eggs beat together, teaspoonful 
of soda, and one pound of flour with tablespoonful 
of ginger. Bake it in a pan and eat with butter. 

JOHNSON TEA-CAKE. 

One and a quarter pounds of flour, four eggs, 
' one pint of milk, one pound of sugar, four tea- 
spoonfuls of yeast powder' or one tablespoonful of 
yeast. Beat sugar and eggs together, then the 

16 -. 



242 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

milk and yeast, and then the flour. Let it rise two 
hours in a warm place and bake in a quick oven. 

SPANK.MEDOWN. 

Five cups of flour, two of molasses, two of butter, 
two of sugar, one of milk, half a pound of raisins, 
two large spoonfuls of ginger, one grated nutmeg, 
and two teaspoonftils of saleratus. Throw all the 
ingredients in a tray. Work all well together, and 
bake in one large pan or small ones, as you prefer. 

WHITE CUP-CAKE. 

Four pounds of flour, two pounds of sugar, and 
one of butter. Beat five eggs with t^e sugar ; put 
one teaspoonful of soda in a cup of sour milk ; grate 
one nutmeg and put in it, with one teaspoonful of 
cinnamon. Then cream the butter and flour to- 
gether, add the eggs and sugar, with the other in- 
gredients, stir it, well, and bake in a tin mould. 

LOAF-CAKE. 

Three pints of flour,.five eggs beat with two cups 
of sugar and two of butter, one cup of molasses 
stirred in, and then the flour, one teaspoonfiil of 
allspice, and at the last, one of soda and two of 
cream of tartar, dissolved in sweet milk and well 
stirred in. Bake in a large pan. 

MEASURE CAKE. 

One pint of flour, one teacup of butter, two of 
sugar, a grated nutmeg, and four eggs. 



CAKE. 243 

ALMOND CAKE. NO. 1. 

Blanch one pound of almonds and beat them to 
a paste with rose-water ; cream one pound of sugar 
and the same of butter together. Beat the whites 
of sixteen eggs to a stiff froth, and sift one pound 
of flour ; add two tablespoonfuls of flour and two 
of eggs to the butter and sugar, alternately, until all 
are in. Then add the almonds and bake immedi- 
ately. 

ALMOND CAKE. NO. 2. 

Cream one pound of butter and the same of 
sugar together. Beat ten eggs well, add the sugar 
and butter to the yelks and then the whites, stir 
in slowly one pound of flour, two pounds of stoned 
raisins, one pound of citron cut small, one grated 
nutmeg, and one pound of blanched almonds that 
have been well beat in a marble mortar ; grease 
your cake mould, line the bottom with paper to 
fit nicely, and bake slowly two hours. 

THORPE WHITE CAKE. 

Cream one pound of sugar and half a pound of 
butter well together ; stir in slowly one pound of 
flour and the whites of fifteen eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth, and a wine-glass of white brandy. Bake 
in a quick oven. 

SPONGE-CAKE. 

Beat ten eggs separately, put in their weight of 
sugar and the weight of seven in flour ; beat sugar 



244 MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

and yelks together, then add the whites, and 
sprinkle the flour slowly in. 

COKN STARCH CAKE. 

Stir to a froth three quarters of a pound of but- 
ter and one pound of fine white sugar, add one half 
cup of sweet cream and the whites of nine eggs 
beaten very light. Take from a pound package of 
corn starch two tablespoonfuls and replace it with 
same quantity of flour ; then sift it and stir it in. 
Flavor with lemon. 

COKN POUND-CAKE. 

One pound of sugar, half pound of butter, one 
pound of corn meal, five eggs well beaten, one 
teacup of milk or cream, with a teaspoonful of 
saleratus. Take out a teacup of meal and put one 
of flour in place of it. Flavor to your taste. 

SPONGE-CAKE. 

Take the yelks of five eggs, the white of one, 
and beat with half a pound of sugar and a tea- 
cupful of water until thick as pound-cake ; then 
add slowly six ounces of flour. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff" froth, then 
add half a cup of sour cream, same of butter, one 
and a half cups of sugar, three of flour, and 
teaspoonful of soda and lemon. 



CAKE. 245 



GINGER POUND-CAKE. 

Beat six eggs, add two cups of sugar, two of 
molasses, two of butter, two tablespoonfuls of 
powdered ginger, one of cinnamon, one nutmeg 
grated, one teaspoonful of saleratus, one of lemon 
extract ; beat all well together and stir in six cups 
of flour. Bake in two pans. 

SOFT GINGEKBKEAD. 

Beat three cups of flour, one of butter and one 
of sugar together; add one cup of molasses and 
one of sour cream, with a little of the flour. 
Beat separately four eggs, add the yelks with 
more of the flour ; put one tablespoonful of ginger, 
same of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of ground cloves, 
and one of soda ; stir in two cups of fruit, the whites 
of the eggs and the remainder of the flour. Bake in 
tin pans well greased. 

CUP SPONGE-CAKE. 

Three cups of sugar, same of flour, nine eggs, 
three tablespoonfuls of cold water. Flavor to the 
taste. 

SARATOGA SPRINGS CAKE. 

Mix four cups of sugar and two of butter to- 
gether ; dissolve two teaspoonfuls of saleratus in 
two cups of milk, beat six eggs, add them alter- 
nately with the milk, and eight cups of flour, to the 
sugar and butter ; grate a nutmeg, and put a little 
mace with it, stir it in and bake in two cakes. 



246 MES. Elliott's housewife. 



CKEAM CAKE. 

Beat five eggs with three cups of sugar, add 
one cup of butter, one of cream, and four of flour, 
one teaspoonful of saleratus, dissolved and put in at 
the last. 

"WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Stir one cup of butter and -three of sugar together ; 
dissolve one teaspoonful of cream tartar and half 
the quantity of soda in half a cup of sweet milk ; 
then the whites of ten eggs beaten to a stiff froth 
and three and a half cups of flour slowly stirred 
in. Bake this in three cakes. Ice each cake, pile 
them in layers, and ice the top and sides. 

JELLY CAKE. 

Beat three eggs and two cups of sugar, add one 
of milk and half cup of butter, half a teaspoonful of 
soda and one of cream tartar sifted in three and a 
half cups of flour ; bake it in tin plates, cover with 
jelly and so on four or six times. 

fannie's sugak cakes. 
Work one quarter of a pound of butter in two 
quarts of flour ; beat ten eggs with one and a half 
pounds of sugar, put a gill of brandy and one nut- 
meg grated in the eggs, and work the flour in it to a 
stifi' dough. Roll them out and cut with shapes. 



CAKE. 247 



FANNIE S HASTY CAKE. 

Beat four eggs and four cups of sugar together, 
add one cup of butter, sift one teaspoonful of soda 
in six cups of flour, and stir it in with two tumblers 
of buttermilk. Bake quick. 

FANNIe's JUMBLE3. 

Two quarts of flour, two pounds of sugar, ten 
eggs, three quarters of a pound of butter ; work it 
up in one mass, roll it thin, and glaze them with 
white of egg put on with a feather, and bake them 
a light brown. 

hettie's delicate cake. 
Cream seven ounces of butter and beat the 
whites of eight eggs to a stiff froth. Mix in slowly 
one pound of white sugar, then stir in one pound 
of flour with the butter, put in half a nutmeg 
grated fine, and flavor with extract of lemon, al- 
monds, or a little rose-water. Bake it in a buttered 
pan with white paper over the butter, cut to fit in 
the bottom smoothly. 

fannie's sponge-cake. . 
Weigh ten eggs and put their weight in su^r in 
twelve yelks. Beat the ten whites to a stiff iroth, 
put it in the yelks with the juice and grated peel of 
one lemon. Then slowly stir in the weight of six 
eggs in flour, and bake immediately. Sponge-cake 
must not have much grease in the pan. 



248 MKS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

ONE POUND FRUIT-CAKE. 

One pound of flour and same of butter creamed 
together, one of sugar, and twelve eggs beaten. Add 
the flour and butter, gill of brandy with a teaspoon- 
ful powdered mace and cinnamon in it. Beat well, 
and then add one pound of stoned raisins well 
floured, same of citron cut fine, and one pound of 
almonds blanched in rose-water. Bake in a quick 
oven. 

fannie's white cake. 

Beat to a stiff froth the whites of twelve eggs ; 
cream twelve ounces of sugar with ten ounces of 
butter, season with lemon extract, and stir in four- 
teen ounces of flour, and bake at once in a quick 
oven. 

fannie's gold cake. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, four of flour, 
one of milk, four eggs, one teaspoonfiil of soda, and 
two of cream tartar. Beat eggs and sugar, then 
flour and butter. Mix the cream tartar and soda 
in the milk, and stir it in just as you put it in to 
bake. 

Nona's delicate cake. 

Stir to a cream one pound of white sugar and 
one pound of fresh butter, with the salt washed 
out. Put one teaspoonful of lemon extract and one 
of vanilla in it, then the beaten whites of twenty 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, then one pound of 
flour slowly stiiTed in. Bake immediately in a 
quick oven. 



CAKE. 249 



NONA S COKN-STAKCH CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, one cup of sweet 
milk, two of flour, one of corn-starch, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda, and two of cream tartar, and the beaten 
whites of five eggs. 

Nona's white cake. 
Three cups of sifted flour, one and a half of su- 
gar, one cup of sweet milk, one egg, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar, 
one of soda, and one of essence of lemon. Beat 
the^ butter and sugar to a cream, dissolve the soda 
in the milk, and put that into the egg and essence 
and two cups of flour. At the last, sift the cream 
tartar in the other cup of flour and stir it lightly in. 

BLACKBEREY CAKE. 

Beat four eggs with two cups of sugar, one cup 
of butter, three and a half of flour, with one tea- 
spoonful of soda sifted in it ; add one cup of sour 
milk. If your milk is sweet, put one teaspoonftil of 
vinegar in it. Stir it well, and then stir in one cup 
of preserved blackberries ; flavor it with lemon. It 
is a nice dessert with wine sauce. 

lauka's cup cake. 
One cup of cream, one of sugar, two of flour, 
two eggs, half a teaspoonful of soda, and one of 
cream tartar. Bake in shapes. 



250 mes. elliott's housewife. 

lauka's cocoanut cake. 
Four cups of flour, three cups of white sugar, 
one cup of milk, half a cup of butter, three eggs, 
one teaspoonfnl of cream tartar, and one nearly fall 
of soda. Mix well and add one cocoanut nicely 
grated, 

latjra's drop cakes. 

Beat three eggs and six ounces of sugar, add 
three ounces of butter and eight ounces of flour. 
Drop it from the spoon in a warm oven and bake 
quickly. 

SIS submit's molasses cup cake. 
Two cups of molasses, same of butter, one of. 
milk, two eggs, one teaspoonfol of soda, a nutmeg 
or lemon extract to flavor it. Mix all together, and 
stir flOur in until so stifi' the spoon will not easily 
move,! and bake in a pan. 

PLAIN molasses CAKES. 

Take three quarts of flour and sift it with two 
large spoonfuls of ginger. Work one tablespoonful 
of lard and one of butter in it, then work it to a stiff 
dough with molasses. Roll them thin on a biscuit 
board and bake them in a moderate oven. 

faknie's gingerbread. 
Beat six eggs with two cups of sugar and two of 
molasses. Add one cup of butter, one teaspoonful 
of ginger, same of soda, and work it in ten cups of 
flour. 



CAKE. 251 

pannie's buttermilk cake. 
One pound of flour, one of sugar, half a pound 
of butter. Beat six eggs light with the sugar, add 
the butter, then the flour, with a teaspoonful of 
soda in buttermilk enough to make it as pound- 
cake batter. 

mattie's white cake. 
Beat the whites of fifteen eggs to a stiff froth. 
Cream one pound of fine white sugar, and half a 
pound of nice fresh butter together. Mix the eggs 
with it and slowly sprinkle in one pound of fine 
flour. Season with one gill of white brandy and 
two teaspoonfuls lemon extract. 

fannib's cocoanut cake. 
Beat twelve eggs separately ; cream half a pound 
of butter in one pound of flour, beat the yelk of 
egg and one pound of sugar together. Then add 
two pounds of almonds that have been blanched 
and beat smooth in rose-water, and two grated co- 
coanuts ; grease your pan, line the bottom smoothly 
with white paper, grease that, and bake the cake in 
a quick oven. 

fannie's black cake. 

Beat twenty eggs, one pound and a half of sugar 

with the yelks ; cream one pound of butter with 

one and a half pounds of flour and sti^ it in the 

yelk and sugar, then put in two wine-glasses of 



252 MRS. ELUOTT'8 HOUSEWIFE. 

brandy with one of wine, with two teaspoonfuls of 
cinnamon, four grated nutmegs, teaspoonfiil of mace 
stirred in the brandy. Flour three and half pounds 
of raisins, three of currants, one and a half of cit- 
ron and put it slowly in, with half pound of 
blanched almonds. 

mapt's plain cake. 8. c. 
Two cups of flour, two eggs, one cup of sugar, 
half cup of butter, the same of sweet milk, half 
teaspoonful of soda. Flavor with nutmeg and a Kt- 
tle brandy. Drop on buttered tins and bake. 

MRS. HOPSOBt's ginger CAKE. S. C. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of butter, one of mo- 
lasses, four eggs well beaten, four cups of flour, 
three fourths of a cup of sweet mUk, with one tea- 
spoonful of soda dissolved in it. Ginger and spice 
to your taste. Bake in buttered tins. 

Maggie's cup cake. s. c. 
One cup of butter, two of sugar, three of floor, 
four eggs, one teaspoonful of soda ; if too stiflF add 
a Uttle cream. Flavor to the taste and bake in 
buttered tins. 

MRS. FRAZEr's jumbles. S. C. 

Five eggs, three cups of sugar, one and a half of 
butter, one teaspoonful of soda ; flour to make stiff 
enough to roll. Flavor to the taste with spices or 
essence. 



CAKE. 253 

WAFER CAKES. 

Beat six eggs very light. Put half a pound of 
sugar in the yelks, and a quarter of a pound of but- 
ter. Mix the eggs and stir in enough flour to make 
a stiff batter. Season with lemon extract and nut- 
meg. Heat wafer irons and grease them, put two 
large spoonfuls of the batter in and cook. Turn them 
as you take them from the irons. Have a nice round 
smooth stick to roll them on. Fill the hollow with 
whipped cream and put preserved strawberries in 
each end. Plain pound-cake batter makes them 
very nice. One teaspoonfiil will do to put in the 
irons. 

FEATHER CAKE. 

Beat four eggs, with four cups of sugar, one cup 
of butter, and one of milk. Sift one teaspoonful of 
soda and two of cream tartar in six cups of flour, 
stir it in and flavor with lemon. 

TIPTOP CAKE. 

Five eggs well beaten, with four cups of sugar, 
one cup of butter, two of milk, and six cups of flour 
piled up, with one teaspoonful of soda, same of cream 
tartar sifted in it, and slowly stirred in the eggs and 
milk. Flavor with one teaspoonful essence of al- 
monds. 

DOVER CAKE. 

Two eggs beat with one cup of sugar, one half 
cup of butter and same of milk beat in it, two cups 
of flour, with half teaspoonful soda and one tea- 



254 MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

spoonful cream tartar sifted in it. Stir all well to- 
gether and flavor with nutmeg. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

One cup of cold coffee strained, one cup of sour 
cream, two large cups of brown sugar, five eggs, 
one cup of currants, one of raisins, one teaspoonful 
of cloves, allspice, cinnamon, one grated nutmeg, and 
a teaspoonful of saleratus, with flour enough to make 
it stiff. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Take one pound of pounded sugar, the same of 
flour, and half pound of butter. Beat the whites 
of nine eggs, cream the sugar and butter together, 
add the eggs and then the flour, after it has been 
sifted, with one teaspoonful of soda and two of 
cream tartar in it. Bake it in jelly cake pans. 

LEMON CAKE. 

Beat five eggs with two cups of sugar, one of 
butter and four of flour, the juice and grated peel 
of one lemon, and a cup not quite fuU of milk. If 
it is sour, put enough soda in it to sweeten it. Beat 
all hard and bake in patty-pans. 

LOAF CAKE. 

One cup of molasses, warmed, with half a cup of 
butter in it ; two eggs stirred in when cold, two 
cups of flour, and one of currants or dried cherries, 
chopped fine ; half a cup of sugar beat in, with a 
teaspoonful of soda touched with vinegar. Flavor 
with any extract or spice. 



CAKE. 255 



QUEEN CAKES. 

Wash and dry one pound of currants, and mix 
them with the same weight of flour and fine 
sugar; wash one pound of butter in rose-water, 
then mix with it eight well beaten eggs, and 
gradually the flour, sugar, and currants ; beat it an 
hour. Grease little tin shapes or cups, fill half full, 
sprinkle a little sugar over the top, and bake them 
in a moderate oven. 

MAY QUEEN CAKE. 

Beat two pounds of butter to a cream with two 
tablespoonfols of essence of lemon or rose-water ; 
then add two pounds of flour, two pounds of white 
sugar, and ten eggs well beaten ; add half a pound 
of blanched almonds, and half a pound of citron 
cut fine. Beat it all well together, put it in tin 
shapes well greased, and bake them a light brown. 

DBOP SUGAR CAKES. 

Beat eight eggs very light, add one pound of 
-sugar, same of flour and teaspoonful of essence of 
lemon ; drop them from the spoon in the oven, and 
bake. 

ALMOND CAKE. 

Blanch a half pound of sweet and an ounce of 
bitter almonds, put them in a marble mortar with 
a few drops of cold water and beat them to a paste. 
Then add to them ten eggs ; beat light and slowly 
one pound of fine white sugar and half a pound 



256 MES. eluott's housewife. 

melted butter ; beat all well together and then add 
the rind of a lemon grated fine ; put it hi a cake 
mould greased with lard, and bake it one hour and 
a half. Excellent. 

CAKAWAY-SEED CAKE. 

Cream one pound of butter and one of sugar 
together, beat the yelks of eighteen eggs and the 
whites of ten separately, mix in the whites first and 
then the yelks and beat for ten minutes. Add 
two grated nutmegs, and sprinkle in one pound 
and a half of sifted flour ; then beat in three ounces 
of picked caraway seeds, and put it immediately 
in your oven and bake an hour. 

SWEET POTATO CAKE. 

Take some fine old Currituck yams, slightly par- 
boil them, and grate one pound. Beat twelve eggs 
with two pounds of sugar, and one pound of butter 
mixed in with the yelks and sugar ; add two table- 
spoonfals of flour with half a teaspoonful of soda 
in it and one of cream tartar ; slowly sprinkle in 
the potato and white of egg, give it one beat, and 
bake it in three square shallow pans. You can 
flavor it if you wish, but it is not needed. 

bettie's mountain cake. 
One pound of flour, one of sugar, half pound of 
butter, six eggs, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved 
in a cup of milk, two of cream tartar sifted in the 
flour.; season to the taste with lemon and nutmeg. 



CAKE. 257 



CHESS CAKE. 

The yelks of sixteen eggs, half a pound of but- 
ter and one pound of sugar. Beat the whole very 
light and flavor with lemon extract. Bake in shapes 
lined with puif paste. 

MRS. HOTT's white CAKE. 

Cream one pound of flour and three fourths of 
a pound of butter together, beat the whites of 
eighteen eggs to a stiff froth and stir one pound 
of fine sugar slowly in. Stir a little of the flour 
and butter in at the time, till all ai;e well mixed. 
Flavor with one teaspoonful of almond extract and 
bake it in a quick oven. 

MES. hart's cream PUFFS. 

Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth and 
mix it in one cup of sweet cream and a dessert- 
spoonful of butter ; make it into a paste with flour 
and roll it out as thin as a wafer ; cut it by a 
saucer and "drop it in hot lard to fry a light brown 
(it will require but a few moments to cook). 
When done take them out with a skimmer and 
sprinkle sugar over them, while hot, through a piece 
of coarse muslin. 

COCOANUT PUFFS. 

Put grated cocoanut in piles on a flat dish with 
a dessert-spoonful to each ; put some jelly in small 
pieces over the top, and pile whipped cream on 
17 



258 MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

them, as for syllabub ; cut pieces of paper and put 
the cocoanut on, if you want to move it, to decorate 
■with. 

COCOANUT ON SPONGE-CAKE. 

FLU a large pan with sponge-cake batter, quarter 
of an inch thick. Beat up sugar and egg as for 
icing, stir the cocoanut in thick, and flavor with 
lemon extract. When the cake is nearly done take 
the pan out, cut it across with a knife, three inches 
square, cover it with the cocoanut and egg, retiun 
it to the stove or oven, and let it cook a light brown. 
When .preparing wedding cake for parties, this is 
easily done with extra icing. 

NEW ORLEANS JUMBLES. 

Take a clean tray, and put in it one pound of 
flour, one pound of sugar, one pound of butter, two 
grated nutmegs, the rind of two oranges and of two 
lemons grated; work it all up in a mass. Then 
break two eggs on the dough and work them in. 
Sugar the biscuit board with fine white sugar, as 
you would with flour ; roU a small piece of the 
dough in it with your hands ; join the ends as a 
ring, and bake them in a clean stove pan, or Dutch 
oven, washing it out clean every time you put fresh 
ones in ; take them out very carefully, after cooking 
a few minutes, on a knife blade, and put them on 
dishes to cool before packing away. They are very 
rich, and taste as fresh as an orange. 



CAKE. 269 



LEMON CAKES. 

Beat six eggs separately, add six ounces of white 
sugar, put in slowly six ounces of flour, then the 
whites of eggs and juice of the lemon. When well 
beaten, sprinkle in the grated rind of the lemon, put 
it in tin shapes, and bake in a warm oven. 

MARTIN JUMBLES. 

Sift one teaspoonful of soda in two pounds of flour 
in a wooden tray. Throw in one and a half pounds 
of brown sugar, three quarters of a pound of butter, 
two tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, eight eggs, leaving 
out the whites of four, and a wine-glass of brandy ; 
work all up in a mass, sprinkle some fine sugar on 
your biscuit board ; roll a piece of the dough in your 
hand, then in the sugar, and make it in form of a 
ring, by joining the ends together ; place them, not 
very close, in a stove pan, or Dutch oven, and bake 
a light brown ; let them cool a little, and take them 
out careftJly with a knife run under them ; wipe the 
pan or oven out clean every time you put in a fresh 
lot to bake, and never grease or flour it. They are 
very nice and keep well. 

DOVEK CAKE. 

Half pound of butter, one pound of flour, one 
pound of loaf sugar, half pint of milk, six eggs, wine- 
glass of brandy, half glass of rose-water, one nutmeg, 
teaspoonful of cinnamon, teaspoonful of saleratus dis- 
solved in lemon juice or a little vinegar. Stir the 



260 MRS. Elliott's housewife. 

sugar and butter together ; a'dd the spice and liquor, 
eggs and floor alternately, and gradually the milk. 
If you choose you can add one pound of fruit, slowly 
putting it in. Bake in a greased mould. 

BRADFORD CUP CAKE. 

Eight cups of flour, with one teaspoouful of soda 
sifted in it ; work in it two cups of butter or lard ; 
beat six eggs with two cups of sugar, two of molasses, 
and one cup of sour milk, with spice to taste ; beat 
all together, and bake in a tin pan well greased. If 
you use lard, put in a little salt. 

PLAIN TEA CAKES. 

Six eggs with coflee cup of sugar beat together, 
tablespooniul of lard or butter ; work well ; roll out 
and cut small with tin shapes. 

INDIAN POUND-CAKE. 

The weight of eight eggs in sugar, and six in 
meal ; stir half a pound of butter and the sugar to- 
gether ; beat eight eggs very light, and stir it in al- 
ternately with the meal ; add one nutmeg, grated, 
and bake in a tin pan well greased. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Three pounds of flour ; work three quarters of a 
pound of butter in it ; beat four eggs with one pound 
of sugar, put in a teacup of hop yeast, and one pint 
and a half of milk ; flavor with teaspoonfiil each of 
cinnamon and nutmeg, with tablespoonful of rose- 



CAKE. 26 f 

>yater ; work the flour up with the mixture ; roll it 
in a .sheet, and cut with a small cutter, and fry in 
boiling lard. 

CRULLERS. 

Two pounds of flour, half pound of butter worked 
in it ; beat seven eggs with three quarters of a pound 
of sugar ; flavor with spice of any kind ; work all 
together, roll them out and cut with shape, and fry 
in lard. 

fannie's biscued glaceb. 

Rub off the yellow rind of four oranges or lemons 
with lumps of loaf sugar ; then pulverize and mix it 
with one saucerful of fine sugar ; mix the juice of 
the orange or lemon in, and stir all in two and a 
half pints of cream ; add more sugar if not sweet 
enough. Beat six eggs separately, and then mix 
them before stirring them in the cream ; grate enough 
sponge-cake to make a thick batter, and beat it all 
together, free of lumps. Put it in a porcelain kettle 
on the fire, stir it all the time, and give it one boil. 
When cool, freeze it as you do ice-cream. 

fannie's charlotte eussb. 
Sweeten one quart of cream and flavor with va- 
nilla ; chum it with syllabub churn. Dissolve one 
ounce of gelatine in half a pint of milk ; scald but 
do not boil it; pour it over the yelks of three eggs 
well beaten, and add it to the cream. When cold, 
put it in a glass dish with sponge-cake on the sides, 
or in the centre of a sponge-cake cut out for that 
purpose. 



262 MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



FANNIE S CEEAM. 

Put one fourth of a box of gelatine in one pint of 
sweet milk, and set it over the fire until it dissolveg, 
stirring it all the time to prevent the gelatine from 
sticking; sweeten one quart of cream to the taste 
and add the milk to it when cold ; chum it with a 
syllabub chum until it is very thick ; put it on ice to 
cool and eat it with sweet cream. 

FANNIE's MEEINGT7E. 

Line a deep dish with pufiF paste, and cover it 
with sweetmeats ; put it on to bake ; when the paste 
is done, beat four eggs to a stiff froth, with one 
pound of sugar, the juice of one lemon, and the rind 
rubbed with lumps of sugar. Spread it over the 
sweetmeat, and bake a pretty light brown. 

FANNIE's ALA CKEAM. 

Boil ten eggs hard, slice them ; line a dish thin 
with bread crumbs, then a layer of eggs, bread 
crumbs, butter, pepper, and salt ; melt four ounces 
of butter, and stir it in one quart of cream with one 
tablespoonfiil of flour ; pour it over the egg and 
bread, and bake it brown in a hot oven. 

GINGER SPONGE-CAKE. 

One cup of molasses, two of sugar, one of butter, 
one of milk, four eggs, four cups of flour, with one 
tablespoon ful of ginger. 



CAKE. 263 



JUMBLES. 

Four eggs, half a pound of sugar, same of butter, 
two quarts of flour, teaspoonful of soda ; work all 
up together, add spice to your taste, and bake 
them in lings. 

NAPLES BISCUIT. 

Beat twelve eggs separately ; stir one pound of 
sugar with the yelks, then add the whites and one 
pound of flour ; bake it in long pans one inch thick, 
cut in strips, two inches wide, as soon as done, and 
ice them all over. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Take two pounds of flour, half a pound of sugar, 
two large spoonfuls of yeast, and sufficient new milk 
to make it like bread. Make it up at night ; next 
day work in half a pound of butter, and fry it in 
cakes size of a half dollar (in specie times) in boil- 
ing lard. Take them out with a perforated ladle. 

MRS. H.'S MOLASSES FRUIT-CAKE. 

Beat five eggs, stir in three cupfnls of molasses, 
sift one spoonful of soda and one of cinnamon in 
five cupfuls of flour, and stir it in ; grate one nut- 
meg, and beat a tablespoonful of cloves to season it. 
Cut fine one pound of half done dried apples, one 
pound of figs, and stir them in with three cups of 
butter. This is very nice, and very much like fruit 
cake made with raisins and citron. 



264 MRS. Elliott's housewife. 



ALMOND MACAROONS. 

Blanch one pound and a quarter of sweet and four 
ounces of bitter almonds, in boiling water. As soon 
as the skins slip off nicely, drop them in a marble 
mortar and pound them to a paste with a few drops 
of white of egg. Mix two pounds of sugar with a 
little grated lemon, and mix the almond paste in it 
with the whites of four eggs. Take up pieces the 
size of a wine-glass ; make it in balls ; mix the yelks 
of two eggs in a gill of water and glaze the tops of 
each ball ; flatten them one fourth of an inch thick, 
and bake in a slow oven from ten to fifteen minutes, 
and you will have Laurede's nice fresh macaroons. 

BOSTON KISSES. 

Beat twelve eggs to a stiif froth, and slowly 
sprinkle one pound of fine sugar in it while beating ; 
do not stir it ; as soon as the sugar is in, stop beat- 
ing. Have a tin tube and put it on paper about 
three inches long and bake in a quick oven. As 
soon as dry, press the centre down, fill with thick 
cream, seasoned to taste, pile it high in the cen- 
tre and turn one piece on the other, to form an egg 
shape. 

FANNIe's almond DROPS. 

Blanch one pound of almonds, and beat them in 
a marble mortar to a paste with rose-water ; beat 
three eggs to a stiff froth, and stir in half a pound 
of sugar; mix the almond paste in anddrop.it on 



CAKE. 265 

tin sheets or buttered baking pans, in piles ; sift sugar 
over them, and bake brown in a slow oven. 

MRS. E.'S PUFFS. 

Boil one quart of milk with one pound of butter, 
and one pound of sugar. After it has boiled up, stir 
slowly in one pound and a half of flour, and stir it 
until it thickens ; let it cool, and then add the yelks 
of eighteen eggs ; grease tin baking cups ; beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir in last ; 
then half fill the cups and bake. You can add a 
little cinnamon or extract if you like. 

A WEDDING SUPPER. 

In small towns ladies assist their friends to pre- 
pare for the wedding supper or parties, and I here 
append a synopsis of one I superintended for one 
of North Carolina's fair daughters in the fall of 
1868. One hundred guests were expected. The 
table for meats was spread in one room, for 
sweets in another. At the head of the meat table 
a turkey weighing twenty-five pounds, cooked early 
in the morning, and a fine roast pig at the foot, both 
properly garnished ; on the right of each a plain 
and richly stuffed ham ; midway a fine boned turkey 
resting in jelly, with a large pair of ducks opposite ; 
chicken salad from ten chickens, between head 
and centre, centre and foot on both sides, in salad 
stands ; a saddle of mutton half way fi-om head 
to centre, and a round of spiced beef frora foot 
to centre, on opposite side ; dishes of beef tongue 



266 MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

neatly sliced, baked chickens, and a fine boiled tur- 
key covered with hard boiled eggs, between salad 
and mutton, with pickled oysters, cold slaw, and 
pickles of various kinds interspersed ; celery in six 
glass stands flanked by castors, with sauces, catch- 
ups, and salad oil. Four piles of plates, with nap- 
kins between each plate ; on each side, bread and 
crackers within reach of all; a spoon on every 
salad stand ; carving knife and fork with every dish 
of meat ; pickle knife, fork, and spoon on each 
dish of pickle, and piles of soup-plates with a 
spoon in each, on the corners, in which to serve ten 
gallons of hot stewed oysters. Large vases of 
flowers through the centre of the table to add to 
its pleasing effect. This supper was served at 
twelve o'clock, the gentlemen waiting on the ladies, 
and servants dispensed with while discussing the 
viands and partaking of social enjoyment. (Cham- 
pagne used to flow in olden times — that we will not 
dwell upon). One hour aftei" the meats were served, 
the bridal pair precede their guests to the other 
apartment where the cake table was spread, with 
the glitter of silver, glass, and china, bearing the 
iced cakes, frosted fruits, quivering jelly, snowy 
syllabub, golden custards, blancmange, trifle, typsey 
cakes, floating islands, and finiits. Flowers in large 
bouquets, flooded with brilliant lights to impress a 
pleasing picture on the mind long after their beauty 
had faded and gone. For the bride's cake, a box 
three feet square and six inches high was placed in 
the centre of the table, covered with damask, pure 



CAKE. 267 

and white ; around the edges and sides a small 
wreath of flowers and evergreens, with a tasty- 
bouquet in the centre on each side. From each 
corner of the box, pillars five feet high and four 
inches around, inclining a little in at the top, were 
wreathed with white curled paper with flowers and 
evergreens fixed prettily in. On the top of each 
pillar, round pieces of tin were tacked to hold can- 
dles, and then covered by large roses and japonicas 
in clusters. A beautiful hanging basket, embossed 
with silver, was suspended by four cords, one from 
each post (that was fastened before the posts were 
dressed) and hung little ' more than half way ; 
small grape leaves were sewed on the cords, and 
tiny bunches of grapes hung under the leaves as 
a grape-vine. Frosted evergreen sprays were 
placed in the basket, and on it nestled lemons, 
crystallized pears, peaches, nectarines, apples, and 
plums, with long clusters of Malaga grapes hanging 
across and over the sides. Under this basket, in the 
centre of the box, was placed the bride's cake, weigh- 
ing eight pounds, and iced in beautiful forms with 
thick Florida icing, and exquisite French candies 
on the side, with a pure white bouquet of roses, 
lihes of the valley and small flowers, emblematic 
of youth, innocence and love, in the centre. Inside 
of each post on the corner of the box, oblong wire 
baskets were made to fit, and filled with French 
candies in small sprigs of evergreen and flowers 
lined with prettily cut paper, and sugar firuits 
placed between. On each side (through the centre 



268 MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

of the table) was a large glass bowl filled with 
amber jelly, next a bowl of syllabub, piled high and 
decorated with strips of fruit jelly. Then tall 
pyramids of oranges, witb bunches of purple grapes 
over the tops, and bunches of raisins around the 
bottom ; silver baskets witb macaronis and kisses, 
bowls of tipsey cake, trifle, and floating island, 
moulds of blancmange and Charlotte Russe on glass 
dishes, and eight dozen glasses of syllabub and 
colored jellies interspersed. On each end of the 
table a large fruit cake on a glass salver beautifully 
ornamented, vases of flowers between the bride's 
cake and each end, with china dishes of sliced fruit- 
cake, plain pound-cake, delicate cake, marble cake, 
white cake, citron cake,, jelly cake, cocoanut cake, 
sponge-cake, chess cake, jumbles, snow-balls, can- 
dies, apples, and nuts tastefully disposed. Saucers 
and spoons, with small china plates and napkins, on 
each side of the table, with silver ladles to serve 
the syllabub and jelly. Ice cream pyramids are 
only used in warm weather, and were not added, as 
snow was plentiful, and Southern houses not hesited 
by furnaces. This is written as a guide. Follow 
the directions, and see if its simple elegance and 
utJlity will not compare favorably with the dazzling 
supper prepared by skilled and artistic confectioners. 

GENERAL LEE FRUIT CAKE. 

Break fourteen eggs and beat them separately, 
then add one pound of sugar to the yelks. Stir to 
a cream one pound of flour and one and a half 



CAKE. 269 

pounds of butter, and slowly mix it in the yelks 
and sugar. Then add the whites with one gill of 
French brandy and same of Madeira wine, one table- 
spoonful of cinnamon pulverized, same of allspice, 
two nutmegs grated fine, one teaspoonful of mace 
and cloves mixed. Stir all well together and slowly 
add alternately three pounds of stoned raisins 
pulled apart, three pounds of dried, well washed cur- 
ants, two pounds of citron cut in thin pieces, and 
two pounds of almonds, that have been blanched and 
coarsely pounded in a marble mortar with a little 
rose-water. Grease a tin cake mould, put paper in 
the bottom, and bake it in a moderate oven four 
hours. Put the icing on in fifteen minutes after it 
taken out of the oven or stove. Use recipe for 
Florida icing. 

GINGEK SNAPS. 

Three quarts of flour, three quarters of a pound 
of sugar, same of lard, three tablespoonfuls of 
ground ginger, one of cloves, one of cinnamon, one 
of salt, one teaspoonful of soda, and molasses 
enough to make it in a dough. Roll thin, cut 
round and small, and bake quickly. Cakes will be 
crisp and sweet. 

merchant's cake for a picnic. 
Four pounds of flour, four of sugar, four and a 
half of butter, four dozen eggs, four pounds of cur- 
rants, four of citron, eight pounds of seeded rai- 
sins, three spoonfuls of cloves, same of mace, three 
nutmegs, three gills of brandy, and same of wine. 



270 MES. Elliott's housewife. 

Sift one teaspoonftil of soda and two of cream tar- 
tar in the flour and make as other fruit cakes. This 
is nice for a wedding cake. 

MRS. B.'S SPONGE CAKE. 

Break sixteen eggs in a large wooden bowl, put 
the weight of twelve in crushed sugar and six in flour 
in the eggs, with the rind and juice of one lemon. 
Beat it until all the sugar is dissolved, and the 
dough looks as if it were filled with flour. This is 
the best sponge-cake I ever saw, and always light.' 
Nothing beat separately. 

PORTLAND CAKE. 

One cup of milk, two of sugar, three of flour, 
one of butter, four eggs, half teaspoonful of sale- 
ratus, one of cream tartar, and the rind of a lemon 
grated. 

CONCORD CAKE. 

Three cups of white sugar, one of butter, one of 
sour milk, five eggs, one lemon, and five cups of 
flour, with one teaspoonful of saleratus. 

WATER SPONGE-CAKE. 

Six eggs, four cups of sugar, four of flour, one of 
cold water, two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, and 
one of saleratus. 

CRTTLLERS. 

Mix one pint of milk, one cup of melted butter, 
one cup of yeast together, and make it into a stiff 



CAKE. 271 

dougli with flour. Set it to rise. Next morning 
add two cups of sugar, four eggs, one nutmeg grated, 
and a teaspoonful of cinnamon. Make it out in 
cakes like lady fingers, and fry in boiling lard until 
a light brown. Take them out of the lard with 
a perforated skimmer and spread them to cool. 
Sprinkle fine sugar over them while hot. 

FRENCH LOAF-CAKE. 

Beat four eggs with three cups of sugar, one of 
butter, and one of milk. Sift one teaspoonftd of 
soda and two of cream tartar in five cups of flour, 
add one lemon with the peel grated and two cups 
of grated cocoanut. Bake in round loaves like 
bread and slice it. 

COOKIES. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, one of sour 
milk, one teaspoonful of soda, two of cream tartar, 
a few caraway seeds, and flour enough to roll them 
out. 

MES. M.'S CUP CAKE. 

Beat to a cream two cups of sugar, one of butter, 
and one of sour milk. Sift one teaspoonful of soda 
and two of cream tartar in three cups of flour, and 
stir it in. After all are mixed break in five eggs, 
beat hard and bake it quickly. 

MOCK LOBSTER CAKE. 

One cup of white sugar and same of flour, mixed 
in three eggs, third of a teaspoonful of saleratus 



272 MKS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

dissolved in one spoonful of milk, and stirred in. 
Bake it half an inch thick, and when done place it 
on a board. Cover it with preserves and roll it 
round while hot. 

LADY-FINGERS. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, three of flour, 
four eggs. Mix the sugar and butter, then the 
eggs and flour. Roll it out in fine sugar in pieces 
three inches long and one wide, give it a curl, and 
bake it. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup of molasses, half a cup of sugar, and 
half of butter, same of warm water, two large 
spoonfuls of ginger, one teaspoonful saleratus. Mix 
and make a stifle dough with flour and roll out thin. 

TENNESSEE CAKE. 

The whites of sixteen eggs, three quarters of a 
pound of butter, same of flour, and one pound of 
sugar. Flavor to taste. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Two cocoanuts grated, one pound of sugar, same 
of flour, and butter, with the whites of fourteen 
eggs. 

LADY CAKE. 

The whites of twelve eggs, one pound of sugar, 
three quarters of flour, and half a pound of butter, 
two ounces of sweet almonds and one of bitter, 
and one glass of rose-water. 



CAKE. 273 



WHORTLEBERRY CAKE. 

Beat two eggs with one cup of sugar ; stir in 
half the quantity of bvitter and one cup of milk. 
Sift one teaspoonful of soda in four cups of flour, 
add a pinch of salt, and one pint of fresh whortle- 
bemes. Eat it warm with butter for dessert. 

GOSHEN CAKE. 

Mix quarter of a pound of fresh butter with one 
pint of molasses over the fire ; when the butter is 
soft, stir it well, and add one teaspoonful of cinna- 
mon. Beat three eggs and stir them slowly in, 
with enough flour to make it the consistency of 
pound-cake batter ; add one teaspoonful of soda dis- 
solved in hot water. 

CAKE WITHOUT EGGS. 

Stir two cups of sugar and one of butter to- 
gether, dissolve one teaspoonful of soda in one cup 
of sour milk ; stir it in with flour enough to make a 
stiff batter. Flavor it with one gill of brandy, half 
a nutmeg, and one teaspoonful extract of lemon, 
and bake quickly. 

CITRON CAKE. 

Beat four eggs and add one pound and a quarter 
of sugar, three quarters of a pound of butter, one 
pound and a half of flour. Dissolve one teaspoon- 
ful of soda in a pint of milk, and stir it in with one 
teaspoonful of lemon extract and half a nutmeg. 

18 



274 ^ MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

Then add half a pound of citron, cut in thin pieces, 
and bake quickly. 

SCOTLAND NECK CITKON CAKE. 

Twelve eggs, one pound of flour, half a pound of 
butter, one and a half pounds of citron, two pounds 
of almonds, two pounds of cocoanut, one gill of 
wine, same of brandy, and one teaspoonful of mace. 

BUTTER SPONGE-CAKE. 

Fifteen eggs, the weight of ten in sugar, eight in 
flour, six in butter ; cream the butter and part of 
the sugar together ; beat the yelks and balance of 
- the sugar light. Then stir in the butter and sugar 
creamed together, the whites of the eggs well 
beaten, and the flour slowly stirred in ; season with 
lemon, and bake in a quick oven. 

SCOTLAND NECK CHEESE-CAKE. 

Beat the yelks of eight eggs ; cream one pound 
of sugar and half a pound of butter together, and 
mix in the eggs. BoU the rind of two lemons per- 
fectly soft, mash them and beat them in with two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, and bake them in patty-pans 
lined with pastry. 

GINGERBREAD. 

Mix together one pound of sugar, one of butter, 
three of flour ; add one pint of molasses, quarter of 
a pint of cream, two ounces of ginger, and one 
tablespoonfal of soda, and bake it in small cakes 
cut with tin shapes. 



CAKE. 275 



VIRGINIA TEA-CAKES. 

One and a half pounds of sugar, one cup of but- 
ter, one of lard, one of milk, two teaspoonfuls of 
soda dissolved in the milk, three eggs, and four pints 
of flour. Make it in a stiff dough, and roll it out 
to cut with cake-cutters. 

If cares disturb you, wear the star of hope. " The time has 
come when the will of woman, the taste and skill of woman, the 
love and energy of woman must be seen and felt. There is a 
power as well as charm in the working gifts and graces of woman. 
To plant, to beautify, to bless with patient toil and complete suc- 
cess with which every wise woman buildeth her house, is to build 
up the fortunes and fame of her country, and to make the desert 
rejoice and blossom as the rose." 

" Woman's invention will often solve man's difficulty sooner 
than all his logic" 



276 MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



PRESERVES. 

TO PKESERTE PEACHES. 

Peel clear stone peaches, and cut them in halves ; 
weigh them and take their weight in sugar ; put 
your sugar in a porcelain kettle, and cover it well 
with cold water ; add the beaten whites of two eggs 
to every ten pounds ; stir it well, and put it over 
the fire ; boil and skim it until perfectly clear ; then 
put in the peaches and cook slowly until the syrnp 
is as thick as honey, carefully removing the scum 
that rises on the top. Put them in your jar's warm, 
dip a piece of white paper in brandy, and place on 
the peaches ; tie them up nicely, and keep in a dry 
place. 

CLING-STONE PEACHES. 

To every pound of peaches, allow three quarters 
of a pound of sugar ; peel th'em, and throw into cold 
water until all are peeled ; then pour that water in 
the kettle' you are to preserve in, and add your su- 
gar with beaten whites of two eggs ; skim it well 
and put in a few pieces of lemon peel, then the 
peaches ; let them boil up, then take them out and 
let them cool ; return them and boil in the syrup 
until easily penetrated with a straw. 



PRESERVES. 277 



TO PRESERVE WATER-MELON RINDS.. 

Cut off all the green, thick rind and take the 
white part and cut it in shapes or strips; boil in 
clear water until tender, with a teaspoonful of soda 
and a dozen peach leaves to every half gallon ; then 
take out the rinds, and soak them in alum water 
one hour ; afterward boil gently in ginger tea one 
hour; make a syrup of equal weight of the sugar 
and rinds. Put it in a porcelain kettle,Jwith suf- 
ficient water to cover the sugar ; put in it whilst 
cold, the beaten white of an egg to clarif;^ it ; let 
it boil and remove the scum that rises (a good plan 
is to strain the syrup) ; rinse the kettle out and re- 
turn it to boil up ; put the rinds in and some ginger 
root tied in muslin ; let it boil up ; take the pieces 
out on flat dishes to cool, and when cold, put it in 
the syrup again to cook until soft. Keep it in a 
large earthen bowl two days, then pour off the 
syrup and the juice of a lemon or tablespoonfiil of 
extract; boil it up and pour hot over the rind. 
Then put it in your jars. 

APPLE MARMALADE. 

Pare nice tart apples, and core them ; boil them 
in clear water until soft enough to mash up ; strain 
the water from them, and to every pint put one 
pound of sugar ; let the syrup boil ; skim it, and 
then put the apple iA it and cook until it is thick. 
This is very nice for children, and keeps well. 



278 MKS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



APPLES PRESEKVED LIKE GINGER. 

Peel and cut in quarters enough apples to weigh 
six pounds ; weigh them and take the weight in su- 
gar with half a pound of race ginger ; pack the ap- 
ples in a jar, a layer of apples, then sugar and ginger 
until all are put in. Next day bruise an ounce of gin- 
ger and infuse it in half a pint of boiling water, closely 
covered. Next day, put the apples, sugar, and 
ginger, with the water from the bruised ginger, in a 
preserving kettle, and boil it for one hour or until 
the apple looks clear and syrup rich, adding some 
lemon peel cut very thin, just before done. This 
tastes like West India ginger, when nicely done. 

SIBERIAN CRAB APPLE. 

Weigh them, and to every pound allow the same 
of sugar ; make a syrup with the sugar, and when 
boiled, drop the apples in and let them cook, but 
not break ; take them out, and when cool put them 
in a jar, and for three days boil the syrup and pour 
over them. 

APPLE JELLY. 

Pare, core, and halve nice sour apples, without 
bruise ; weigh them, and put their weight of sugar 
in a porcelain kettle with just enough water to dis- 
solve it ; let the water and sugar boil, and skim it ; 
then lay the apples in careftdly without crowding 
them, and let them cook until tender enough to eat ; 
with a silver spoon place each piece on a shallow 



PRESERVES. 27 9 

dish, and let it cool ; add one more pound of sugar 
to the syrup ; boil and skim it ; when the apples are 
perfectly cold, pour the syrup over, and let thfem 
remain in the jelly. It will keep for weeks, and is 
not only delectable with sweet cream, but an orna- 
ment to the dessert table or tea. 

APPLE JELLY. NO. 2. 

Cut apples up without peeling them; put them in 
a porcelain kettle, and cover them well with cold 
water; let them boU one hour, then strain them 
through a coarse bag, and to every pint of the juice 
add one pound of white sugar ; return it to the ket- 
tle, put a stick of cinnamon and the peel of a lemon 
in, boil it until it congeals in the spoon when cooled, 
and put it in common tumblers, with a piece of pa- 
per pasted over the top. 

TO DRY CHERBIES OK DAMSONS. 

Pick them from the stem and weigh them ; to 
every four pounds allow one pound of brown 
sugar. Put the sugar in a kettle and wet it with 
water enough to dissolve it ; let it boil and skim it, 
then put in the fruit and 'give them one boil up. 
Remove the scum carefully from the top, pour them 
in a jar, and three days after boil the syrup and 
pour it hot over the fruit. Three days after, take 
them out of the jar and dry them in the hot sun, or 
put them in a moderate oven and stir them 
occasionally. When dry, put them in paper bags, 
and keep them in a dry place for pies in winter. 



280 MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

TO DKT PEACHES. 

Peel them nicely, take out the seeds and spread 
them thin on pieces of boards and put them in the 
hot sun every morning. If damp and cloudy, let 
them have air, l?ut do not put them out. Turn 
them every day. When dried sufficiently, put 
them in bags with sassafras chips occasionally put in 
to keep the worms from eating them. Hang them in 
a dry place. 

DRIED APPLES. 

Peel your apples and cut slices off of the core ; 
spread them on boards and expose them to the hot 
suri four or iive days, turning them often. Then put 
them in cotton bags, with sassafras chips (as for 
peaches), and hang them in a dry- place, and hang 
the bags in the hot sun every day or two for a 
month. Every family should have an apple peeler, 
with the corer and slicer attached ; as they can now 
be had. 

DRIED APPLES SLICED. 

Cut your apples in thin cross slices without peel- 
ing them, fourth of an inch thick, as you do to fry ; 
dry them careftiUy, and keep them as in above re- 
ceipt. These are put up to fry in winter, and have 
to be slightly parboiled before frying them for 
breakfast or dinner. 

GREEN APPLE DRIED. 

Peel the apple and stew it done, with one pound 
of sugar to five of fruit ; spread it thin on dishes 



PBESEEVES. 281 

and dry in the sun, then put into paper bags, and 
keep for Brown Betsey. 

RIPE CANTELOPES PRESERVED. 

Peel the rind off and take out the soft part of 
the cantelope near the seed ; cut it in slices and put 
it in a bowl ; sprinkle a little alum over it, and let it 
stand twelve hours well covered with boiling water. 
Drain it and scald it with weak ginger tea ; drain 
it again and put it in a preserving kettle with one 
pound of sugar to every pound of cantelope, and 
boil it an hour. 

WATER-MELON RIND. 

Cut the rind in all sorts of fanciful shapes with 
a sharp penknife ; weigh it and to every pound 
allow one and a half pounds of loaf sugar. Put it 
in weak alum water for three days, then soak it 
in clear water twenty-four hours, put it then in a ket- 
tle lined with grape leaves and a layer between each 
layer of melon, cover it with water and simmer 
it two hours, then spread it out on dishes to cool. 
Put the sugar in the kettle with a pint of water 
to every pound and a half of sugar, and the whites 
of two eggs beaten ; let it boil, skim off the egg, 
and strain the syrup ; wipe out the kettle and return 
the syrup. When it boils, put the rind in and cook 
it two hours ; take the rind out, boil the syrup again 
and pour it over the rind. Next day pour it off, boil 
the juice of a lemon to every quart of syrup, and 
when it looks thick in the spoon pour it on again 
and tie it up. 



282 MKS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



GLASS MELONS AND CITRONS. 

Gather the citron and glass melon when nearly 
ripe, peel them thin and scrape out all the seeds ; 
cut baskets or edge the halves with a scollop or 
point ; put them in a preserving kettle with water 
to cover them, half a dozen peach leaves and a 
piece of alum half the size of a shell-bark nut ; boil 
them one hour in this, then let them cool and boil 
them half an hour in clear water. Make a syrup 
of one pound and a quarter of sugar and one pint 
of water to a pound of fruit ; boil it, and put the 
melons in to cook until clear. Take them out and 
put lemon peel with a small bit of ginger in the 
syrup, and when thick pour it over the melon. 
The glass melon looks like West India preserves, 
and is very nice. May-tops may be preserved by 
the same process, not peeling them but taking out 
the seed with the stem. 

QUINCE PRESERVES. 

Peel the quince and cut it in nice round pieces ; 
(save aU the good peel and cores for jelly) put the 
pieces in a porcelain kettle and cover them with 
cold water ; let them boil until soft enough to put a 
Straw through ; take them out, and put on a syrup, 
equal weight in sugar covered with water, with the 
white of an egg. Skim and strain it as soon as it 
boils, then put the quince with it and cook it until 
the syrup looks thick. Save the water it was boiled 
in for jelly. 



PRESERVES. 283 

STEWED PEARS. 

Peel your pears and put them in a porcelain ket- 
tle ; cover them with water, and let them cook half 
an hour after the water boils ; then add as much 
sugar as you wish, with pieces of lemon peel, and 
stew until they are soft, but not broken. These 
are preferable to baked, when nicely done, to eat 
with cream or milk. 

PEAR PRESERVES. 

Peel and quarter large pears'and allow one pound 
of sugar to a pound of fruit ; stick one clove to a 
pear in the pieces. Boil the sugar with half pint 
of water to the pound ; put in some bits of lemon 
peel,. and when the syrup has boiled up clear, put 
the pear in and let it cook to heat through ; take it 
out, let it cool, and put it back to cook until it is 
soft, but not broken. Small ones can be put up 
whole, with a clove in the end. 

PEAR MARMALADE. 

Take ripe, juicy pears, cut them in small pieces, 
and stew them with their weight in sugar ; let them 
stand half an hour, then mash them fine with a pes- 
tle, and cook them one hour. Pear is hard to keep 
in preserves, and always requires equal weight in 
sugar. 

PEACH JEtLT. 

Take very ripe peaches, strain them through a 



284 MES. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

coarse bag ; allow a poimd of sugar to one pint of 
juice and a few kernels of the stone. Boil it twenty 
minutes. 

PEACHES A LA STKAWBBRRT. 

Cut ripe peaches in small pieces, with soft, mild, 
eating apples ; allow three peaches to one apple, mix 
them with sugar, and let it stand three hours. 
Makes excellent mock strawberries. 

PEACHES FOR TEA. 

Cut ripe peaches in small pieces, sugar them, 
and serve with rich cream. Nothing better. 

QUINCES BAKED. 

Peel the quince and cut ofiF nice pieces, put.them 
in a pan with sugar and water, and bake them. 
Eat with cream or milk. 

iPEACHES BAKED. 

Peel the peach, cover it with sugar in a pan half 
full of water, and bake soft. These are nice for a 
dessert or tea with cream. 

BAKED PEARS. 

Pears are good baked with or without the peel 
in sugar and water. Bake them slowly. 

BLACKBERRY JAM. 

Gather the blackberries in dry weather, weigh 
them, and put one pound of sugar to one and a 



PRESERVES. 285 

quarter of fruit. Mash them well together and cook 
perfectly done, free of any syrup. 

RASPBERRY JAM. 

-Weigh one pound of sugar for every pound of 
fruit, then put in one pound of the fruit extra, mash 
them well with a marble mortar, and cook them 
until nearly all the syrup is taken up. The great 
art in keeping fruits is cooking them done. 

GOOSEBERRY JAM. 

Pick the stems off, and scald them in hot water ; 
let them stand until the water is cold, then scald 
again. Put one pound and a quarter of sugar to 
every pound of fruit, put it in your kettle with 
enough water to dissolve it. When it boils and the 
scum is removed, put in the fruit that has been 
drained from the water it was scalded in ; you can 
use that to boil more in for a jelly, and put a pound 
and a quarter of sugar to pint of water. Some rec- 
ommended soda in the water they are parboiled in, 
but it gives an unpleasant taste to the preserve. 
This jam, in baked puff paste, makes a pleasant des- 
sert with a glass of milk and sponge-cake. 

QUINCE JELLY. 

Take the shavings from the preserved quince- with 
the perfect cores, and put them in the water the 
pieces were parboiled in ; boil them until perfectly 
soft, then strain through a coarse bag, and to every 
pint, put one pound of sugar ; boil it exactly twenty 



286 MKS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

minutes. Put it hot in half pint tumblers, cut a 
piece of white paper a little larger than the glass, 
mix flour and water, and put it nicely around the 
edge of the paper, and press it on tightly ; wash the 
glasses off with a wet rag and put them away for use. 
Always wash jars and tiimblers perfectly clean 
after being filled, and you will have no food for ants. 

STRAWBERRIES PRESERVED. 

Weigh them and put the same weight in loaf su- 
gar ; let them stand two hours ; boil them twenty 
minutes, and put them up in small glasses. 

STRAWBERRY JELLY. 

Mash the frait and squeeze the juice through a 
bag ; to every pint put three quarters of a pound of 
sugar, and boil it twenty minutes briskly. This 
keeps better than the preserve. All small fruits 
must be cooked until the seed looks done. 

STRAWBERRY JAM. 

" Mash the fruit with equal weight of sugar and 
cook done. 

PINE-APPLE JELLY. 

Pare and grate pine-apples, weigh them, and to 
every pound put one pound of white sugar ; stir it 
until it is well mixed and thickens ; then strain it 
in jars, and put paper dipped in brandy over the 
top, as soon as it congeals. Tie it up tightly. 



PEESEKVES. 287 



ORANGE JELLY. 

Take six large juicy oranges and one lemon, one 
pound of loaf sugar, and half an ounce of gelatine ; 
dissolve the sugar in half a pint of water, pour half 
a pint of boiling water over the gelatine ; when dis- 
solved, strain it, put the sugar and water on the 
fire ; when it boils, add the gelatine, the juice of 
the oranges and lemon, with a little of the peel, and 
let it boil up, and then strain it in moulds to cool. 

TO MAKE GOOD JELLY. 

Press the juice from any fruit you like ; put one 
pound of sugar to every pint of juice, and stir it un- 
til the sugar is all dissolved and well mixed, and 
in twentj'-four hours after you put it in glasses or 
a stone jar (if the sugar has been well mixed in), it 
will make a nice jelly, keep well, and save all the 
trouble of boiling. 

Be systematic in all your honsehold duties. Hare regular 
hours and require your servants to be punctual in keeping them. 
Always have a kitchen clock, and if the meals are on the table at 
the regular hour and you are not ready, do not scold them for not 
waiting. It may not be so palatable, yet there will be no disar- 
rangement, as will be the case whenever the business of one hour 
is put off and crowded into that of another. 

Business men can be prompt in their engagements, their tem- 
pers kept mild, and their lives made happier, by never having to wait 
for their meals to be prepared when they have to go in haste to 
eat them. The gentle smile of the wife and the call of the little 
ones for papa to come to dinner, as his footsteps cross the thresh- 
old of his door, will be as sweet music to his ear, soothing all the 
cares and vexations of the busy mart he has just left behind him. 

If there is a care on his brow, ask no questions — meet him 



288 MBS.' elliott'& housewife. 

with a smile, and let that care be lightened by the happy face of 
" God's best gift to man." 

" The systematic housekeeper will do the work of a family with- 
out hurry or confusion, the nnskilUhl one worries herself into ill- 



ICE-CREAM. 289 



ICE-CREAM. 

FROZEN CUSTARD. 

Break thirty-two eggs in a deep bowl, then put 
on the fire, in a porcelain kettle, one gallon of sweet 
milk; when it is warm put in one pound and a 
quarter best white sugar, and stir it until the sugar 
is dissolved. Let it come to a full boil and when 
rising to the top, stir slowly in the eggs that have 
been beaten while the milk was boiling. Stir all 
the time until it begins to thicken and tastes done, 
being very careful not to let it curdle. Then pour 
it in the large bowl or a deep tin bucket, and set the 
bucket in cold water, continuing to stir until the 
water feels warm ; change the water, and let it stand 
until ready to freeze. Place the freezer in the tub 
that holds the ice and salt, and always have salt un- 
der the bottom of the freezer. Put ice half way 
and then salt, then ice well covered over the top of 
it with salt. Pour the custard in the freezer, and 
flavor it with any extract you prefer. Stir it in 
with a long spoon, cover it tight, and let it stand a 
short time tightly packed. Then keep it turning 
until hard, occasionally cutting it from the sides 
as it freezes. Always wipe the top off before 
opening it. 

19 



290 mrs. elliott s housewife. 

Nannie's sherbet. 
Rub the yellow rind of three lemons with lumps 
of sugar. Squeeze the juice of six and carefully 
take out the seeds. Put the sugar and juice with 
one pound of nice white sugar in half a gallon of 
water. Beat to a stiff froth the whites of five 
eggs, and stir two tablespoonfuls of fine sugar in 
them. Then slowly stir it in the lemonade, and put 
it immediately in a patent freezer, with salt and ice 
around the freezer and turn it until frozen as hard 
as you wish it. This is very delicate, and resembles 
a dish of snow. Plain freezers will not do for this, 
as it must be constantly stirred to keep it well 
mixed. 

PLAIN SHERBET. 

Make a rich lemonade, use twice the quantity of 
sugar you would for the drink. Pour boiling water 
over a little of the thin yellow rind and when nearly 
cool, add it to the lemonade. Strain it in a freezer, 
and freeze as you wish. 

Oranges can be prepared as above. Use less 
sugar. 

VANILLA CREAM. 

Boil one quart of milk with a vanilla bean (in a 
muslin bag) until the milk is flavored with it. Beat 
the yelks of ten eggs and one pound of sugar to- 
gether ; add the vanilla milk to three pints of rich 
cream, set it over the fire, and gradually stir in the 
eggs. Let it come to a boil, stirring it all the time. 
Strain it in a freezer and freeze it very hard. Al- 



ICE-CREAM. 291 

ways use salt plentiful if you want it hard. If 
these creams are wanted in the form of the mould, 
place the mould suddenly in hot water, then in cold, 
and turn it out. 

NORTH CAROLINA CREAM. 

Take one gallon of pure sweet cream and strain 
it through a net sieve. Rub lumps of sugar on two 
lemon rinds and mix it with one pound of loaf 
sugar. Add one pint of Madeira wine, and half a 
glass of water on the sugar to make it mix with the 
cream ; stir it all together. Take a syllabub churn 
and pump it light and thick, then stir it and put it 
at once in the freezer and freeze it hard. Nice to 
eat with strawberries. 

CREAM WITH FRUITS. 

Sweeten any small fruits, and mix with one half 
sweet milk and cream and freeze. Peaches are 
delicious prepared in this way. 

BROOKLYN PISTACHIO CREAM. 

Scald one pound of pistachio nuts and take off 
the skins ; pound them a few at a time in a glass 
or marble mortar, adding rose-water, as you do for 
almond paste. Take half a gallon of sweet cream, 
and put one pound of loaf sugar in it, then gradu- 
ally mix the pistachio paste. Put it in a porcelain 
saucepan and let it have one boil over the fire. 
Put it in a freezer, flavor it with almond extract, 
and freeze it. 



292 MRS. Elliott's housewife. 



ALMOND CREAM. 

Prepare a pound of a^onds as you do the pista- 
chio nut. Mix it with half a pint of sweet milk to 
a sipooth paste. Then stir it in three pints of sweet 
cream with half a pound of loaf sugar. Boil it up 
in a porcelain kettle ; when cold put in a little al- 
mond extract, and if not very sweet, stir in a little 
more sugar and freeze it. It is O. K. 

COCOANUT CREAM. 

Grate a cocoanut and sprinkle quarter of a pound 
of sugar in it. Put on the fire three pints of cream 
and two of sweet milk. When it hoUs up, stir the 
cocoanut in it, and as much sugar as you like ; add 
a gill of rose-water when cold and freeze it. 

STLLABUB. 

Put one pint of wine in a deep howl, with the 
juice of one lemon and half a pound of fine white 
sugar : stir in it one quart of sweet cream. Chum 
it with a tin churn made for the purpose, and skim 
the froth as it rises. Fill glass howls with it or put 
a piece of jelly in small glasses and fill with the 
froth. Always chum for ten minutes hefore skim- 
ming, as it thickens and is better. 

CAROLINA STLLABUB. 

Sweeten half gallon of rich cream very sweet to 
taste ; put in half a pint of Madeira wine and same 
of brandy ; let it stand half an hour, then pump it 



ICE-CREAM. 293. 

with the tin churn and skim the froth. Have a 
sieve made of netting ; put it over something deep 
and pile the froth on the sieve ; fill the bowls with 
the froth from the sieve. This will stand twenty- 
four hours ; the drip can be returned and pumped 
over. If it does not rise well, put in a teacupful of 
cold water and churn hard. 

PLAIN SYLLABUB. 

One pint of cream and one of milk, teacup of 
sugar wet with wine-glass of water, half a pint of 
mixed wine and apple brandy ; churn as above. 

TIPSY CAKE. 

Put a sponge-cake in a glass bowl, pour one 
pint of wine over it (Madeira, sherry, or any nice 
light wine), then stick the top ftill of blanched al-. 
monds cut in two. Have ready a nice rich boiled 
custard, flavored as you like, and pour it warm over 
the cake until the bowl is full. Then put balance 
in a glass pitcher to serve with the cake, as the 
bowl seldom holds enough to cover all the slices. 
You may split the cake if you choose before putting 
it in, and spread jelly of some kind on it. 

TRIFLE. 

Fill a large glass bowl with slices of sponge 
cake and saturate them with wine. Fill the bowl 
with a rich boiled custard (made with eight eggs 
to the quart of milk and quarter of a pound of 
sugar), flavor the custard with lemon. Whip 



29-i MES. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

up syllabub after the recipe, and pile it up high on 
the custard, then cut very thin slices of jelly and 
lay it over the whipt cream. The custard for this 
must be very cold and thick. 

APPLE POOL. 

Stew ten apples with sugar enough to make 
them very sweet, beat the whites of ten eggs to a 
stiff froth, and mix them nicely together and set 
them on ice. 

hog's feet jelly. 
Have the feet nicely cleaned and soaked two 
days in cold water, changing twice or three times. 
Put them on to boil in a large pot of water ; when 
the feet are done take them out with a long skim- 
mer while the liquor is hot. Set the pot aside 
and let it remain still until the next day, then skim 
off all the grease that is on the top (and put it 
aside to try for oil) ; take a clean spoon and scrape 
the jelly off clean, then press blotting paper over 
it. Take it out in large pieces without disturbing 
the bottom where the pieces of bone have settled. 
Put it in a porcelain kettle with a quart measure ; 
to every quart put two pounds of white sugar, one 
quart of Madeira or sherry wine, a few pieces of cin- 
namon, the juice of two lemons with a little of the 
peel, and the whites of two eggs strained with the 
shell washed and crushed. Boil this hard for twenty 
minutes, without stirring it after it commences to 
boil. When the scum has accumulated at one side, 



ICE-CREAM. 295 

take it off and dash one teacup of cold water in it 
and let it stand ten minutes ; take off the thick 
scum very carefully. Have two bleached cotton 
bags, pour it through one in a large bowl and 
through the other in moulds while it is hot. It is 
no more trouble than a pudding if managed rightly, 
and will keep good in small glass jars two months, 
in a cool place, and always good with sweet cream 
over it. 

Marion's jelly. 

To a package of gelatine add a pint of cold 
water, the juice of three lemons, and the rind of 
one. Let it stand one hour, then add three pints of 
boiling water, one pint of sherry wine, a wine- 
glass of French brandy, two sticks of cinnamon, 
a few cloves ; let it stand until it tastes of the cin- 
namon, and then strain it through a thin bag in 
moulds, and put it in a cool place. This was given 
me in Vicksburg, Miss. 

ANOTHER. 

Cover a package of gelatine with oue pint of 
cold water and let it stand fifteen minutes. Have 
some boiling water and pour three pints on the 
rind of one lemon and one orange cut off as thin 
as possible, four sticks of cinnamon and two pounds 
of sugar. Mix the gelatine in this, and keep it over 
a hot water kettle to keep hot by steam. When it 
is all nicely mixed and gelatine dissolved, stir in 
the juice of two lemon^s and two oranges with one 
quart of sherry wine and mix well. Strain it 



296 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

through a cotton bag, and you will find my way of 
making jelly improves the flavor and is very pala- 
table. 

CHAKLOTTE EUSBE. 

Soak one ounce of gelatine half an hour in cold 
water enough to cover It ; when soft put it in a pint 
of sweet cream ; if you wish vanilla flavor, break up 
a bean and tie it in thin muslin, and put it in the cream. 
Put the cream in a porcelain saucepan, and boil it 
over a slow fire until the gelatine is dissolved, stir- 
ring it well from the bottom. Beat the yelks of 
eight eggs, and stir in one pound of fine white su- 
gar; then strain through a muslin strainer, the 
cream in the yelks and sugar, stiring them all the 
time. Put it again in the saucepan or kettle, and 
let it simmer over a slow fire until very thick ; be 
careful not to boil it long enough to curdle. When 
perfectly cold, add the beaten whites of four eggs 
with four tablespoonfuls of fine sugar stirred in, and 
a glass of nice wine, sherry, Madeira, scuppernong, or 
California, and teaspoonfiil of extract of vanilla, if not 
strong enough of the bean ; mix all well. Line moulds 
with thin slices of sponge-cake, fill them up with 
the mixture, and set them on ice, until the char- 
lotte is wanted. Then turn them out in glass dishes 
or china plates to fit the mould. You may use any 
other flavor with this recipe ; if lemon or orange, 
rub some loaf or crushed sugar on the rind, and add 
them to the yelks and cream, and reserve the juice 
to beat in the whites, as jqvl do for icing. If with 
extracts, add it to the white of egg, before mixing 
it with the yelk. 



ICECREAM. 297 



CHOCOLATE CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Cover an ounce of isinglass or gelatine with cold 
water, shave three qpnces of Baker's prepared cocoa, 
and mix it with one pint of sweet cream, and the 
gelatine or isinglass. Put it in a porcelain kettle 
over a slow fire, and stir it until it boils, and is well 
mixed. Beat the yelks of eight eggs and whites of 
four together until very light ; then Stir them in the 
mixture, with half a pound of white sugar ; simmer 
it over the fire, hut do not let it boil ; pour it in a 
bowl, and whip it to a strong froth. Having lined 
your pans or moulds with sponge-cake, fill them 
with the mixture, and set them on ice. 

PIZZINl's ICE-CREAM. 

Make a custard with one gallon of milk, ten eggs, 
leaving out the whites of four, one and a quarter 
pounds of sugar, and four spoonfnls of arrowroot. 
After the cream has commenced freezing, beat the 
whites of eggs left out, and stir them in. 

GERMAN CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Dissolve one ounce of gelatine in one half pint 
of milk ; when well dissolved, add a cupfiil of white 
sugar, and stir until the sugar is dissolved, then fla- 
vor it with lemon or vanilla extract, and strain it ; 
let it cool ; then take one quart of cream that has 
been cooled on ice, and whip it with a syllabub 
chum until it is a stiiF fi-oth. When the gelatine is 
about blood heat, stir the cream gradually into it. 



298 MES. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

Line moulds with sponge-cake, and fill with mix- 
ture, and set the mould on ice. 

MKS. E.'S FLOATING ISLAND. 

Beat six eggs to a stiff froth ; put in a tin sauce- 
pan one pint of milk and one ounce of sugar. Set it 
over the fire, and as soon as it rises,-put lumps of 
the whites in it, with a skimmer, and turn them in 
half a minute ; let them cook only one minute, then 
take them out with the skimmer, and drain them 
on a sieve. Mix two ounces of sugar with the yelks, 
strain the milk from the saucepan over them, set it 
on the fire, and give one hoil up ; flavor with extract 
to taste, turn it on a dish,^ place the lumps of cooked 
whites gently on the liquor, and you have a simple 
floating island. Serve cold. 

LOUISIANA CREAM CHEESE. 

Have a nice white cotton hag to pour a large bowl 
of clabher in ; hang it and let it drip two hours ; 
then fill perforated cheese moulds, the shape of a 
star, flowers, or heart ; let it remain in this until 
wanted for tea ; carefully turn it on a plate, and have 
a pitcher of rich, sweet cream, with sugar in it, and 
grated nutmeg. Serve the cheese in saucers, and 
cover it with the cream and sugar. The first I ever 
ate was in Darlington Parish, La. 

ALMOND OR WALNUT CREAM. 

Blanch the nut, pound it in a marble mortar to 
a paste, and mix it with cream. Use one pound of 



ICE-CREAM. 299 

almonds to a quart of cream or three quarters of a 
pound of picked walnuts. Sweeten it to your taste, 
and freeze it. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

Fill a large glass bowl nearly full with whipt 
cream (as for syllabub). Beat up four eggs with 
marmalade, put a round light sponge-cake in the 
centre of the whipt cream, and tastefully pile the 
marmalade and eggs inixed, on the top of the cake. 

GOOSEBERRY rOOL. 

Stew two quarts of gooseberries with their weight 
in sugar and a little water ; when done strain' them 
through a sieve, stir them in a rich boiled custard 
in a large glass bowl, and pile whipt cream high 
over the top, with strips of currant jelly, cut thin, 
and laid on the cream. 

FLOEIDA ICING. 

Take the whites of ten eggs and one pound of 
white sugar. Put them in an earthen baking dish ; 
do not stir them at all until you put it on hot coals. 
Then stir all the time until it is boiling heat, so hot 
you cannot bear your finger in it. Take it up and 
beat it in the same dish. When nearly cold put in 
a large pinch of tartaric acid, and beat it until as 
thick and smooth as white lead. This icing will 
dry immediately if brought to the proper heat in 
boiling. I give this as the original recipe and add 
my improvement. I find that loaf or crushed sugar 



300 MEs. Elliott's housewife. 

makes the icing smoother and better every way. I 
now put the lumps in a pan and touch them with 
boiling water from the kettle just enough to mash 
the lump. Then I break the eggs on and cook as 
above. I can ice a cake at night, shut it up in a 
close cupboard, and have it beautifully white and dry 
the next morning. This quantity will ice two large 
cakes. 

BOILED ICING. 

Put one pound of sugar and half a pint of water 
on to boil. When it ropes, stir in slowly the whites 
of three eggs that are beaten to a stiff froth. Beat 
it till it is smooth and thick, and add lemon juice to 
the taste. This will ice one cake and a few small 
ones. 

MRS. H.'S ICING FOR CAKE. 

Put three tablespoonfnls of sugar finely powdered 
to the white of each egg, and mix it well before you 
beat it. Then beat it and flavor with lemon juice. 
It must be beat until it is very thick and white. 
Put it on with a knife, occasionally putting the blade 
in cold water to have it smooth. To put in fanci- 
fiiUy, put it in a paper folded like a cornucopia, and 
form flowers by pressing it throngh the small end. 
Coarse lace cut in leaves and flowers, with wire to 
support them, can be covered with this or Florida 
icing, and the cake beautifully ornamented. Each 
leaf must dry well before the flpwers are put to- 
gether. 

PLf J^if ICING; 

Beat the whites of jfpur ,eggs very 9tijf, sljOJyly stir 



ICE CREAM. 301 

in one pound of fine sugar and flavor it with lemon 
extract. You can add one tablespoonful of corn 
starch to this to dry it quickly, if you wish. 

MRS. S.'S ICING. 

Boil one pound of sugar and one pint of water 
till it is a thick syrup. When nearly cold, stir in 
the whites of two eggs that are beaten to a stiff 
froth, and beat it until white. Then stir in the 
juice of one lemon and a spoonful of corn starch. 

ANOTHBK BOILED ICING. 

Cook one and a half pounds of sugar with one 
pint, of water until it ropes. When milk warm, 
slowly stir in the whites of seven eggs well beaten, 
and beat it hard one hour. This will ice five 
pounds. 

ITAUAN CREAM. 

Put two pints of cream into two bowls. Into 
one bowl put six ounces of sugar, the juice of two 
lemons, and two glasses of wine. Add the cream 
from the other bowl and stir hard. Boil two ounces 
of isinglass with four cups of water till reduced to 
half. When it is lukewarm, stir it in the cream 
and put into a mould. 

MRS. B.'S CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Dissolve half a paper of gelatine in cold milk, 
then put it on the fire to warm until well mixed. 
Beat the whites of ten eggs to a stiff froth, and stir 
them in one pint of cream with half a pound of 



302 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

sugar in it ; flavor with vanilla. Mix the gelatine 
and milk in and let it stand until congealed. Cut 
off the top of a sponge-cake, take out the crumb 
in the middle, and fill it with the mixture after it is 
congealed. Replace the top of the cake, and stick 
it full of blanched almonds, with fruit jelly between 
in small pieces, so each slice may be covered with 
almonds and jelly, and you will have a nice and 
pretty dish. 

God made woman a help-meet for man. He 
made her for work and not for an expensive luxury. 
He made her to lighten the toils and cares of man, 
and with the meek and quiet spirit of a Christian's 
silent influence, to draw the unbelieving husband 
to Him. When woman is property aroused to 
a sense of her duty, the laborers in God's vine- 
yard will not be so hard to procure, and the holy 
places consecrated to His service remain closed, as 
many are, in our land of plenty, for want of spiritual 
teachers and the systematic managentent of their 
means of support. 

The gentle teachings to the jewels He has 
intrusted to woman's care, to be trained for His 
service, can be impressed with good or evil, and 
their tender hearts made as pliant as wax to receive 
the impressions of the mould. While she is depend- 
ent on man for the only true happiness realized in 
this world, where a love known only to the pure 
in heart, with a union of kindred spirits, lightens the 
heat and burden of the day, yet the entire happi- 



ICE-CREAM. 303 

ness of her home circle, and the future of the 
" little ones," for weal or for woe, are totally de- 
pendent on her management. 

Drunkards have been heard to say that their taste for drink was 
excited by the brandied fruits, wines, and cordials which were set 
before them in their mother's house, and by her hand ; and this 
taste, thm engendered, often leads children to break God's eighth 
commandment in order to procure what their appetites hare been 
cnltiTated to demand, while the parent little thinks that the sin of 
which her servant is accused was really committed by her child. 
Where does the fault lie ? Certainly with the mother, for she 
can instill truth and honesty into the mind of a two-year-old 
child, — I say she can do it, because I speak from experience, — and 
she may, by example, precept, and watchful care make such a man 
of him as her heart desires. 

The children of many mothers are too often left to the care and 
guidance, and at the mercy of the nurse — for what 1 — fliat the 
mother may indulge in the pleasures of the giddy world. 

She must appear, at a certain time, in her costly array, decked 
as a butterfly, to meet certain friends, and leaving her little ones 
— with a piteous sob, perhaps — to be soothed by one whose only 
interest is in the amount and payment of her wages, and who 
often makes use of drugs to rid herself of their charge, or locks 
them up, with a threat of revenge if a hint of it is given mamma. 
Meanwhile, the time is passing away in which the good seed 
should be sown, which the genial showers of a mother's love causes 
to spring forth, bearing, " first the blade, then the com, and then 
the full corn in the ear ; " and finally the reeling footstep and fren- 
zied brain of her child, as he approaches her door with an oath 
upon his lips, makes her exclaim in the agony of her soul, " My 
son, my son, would that I had died ere I gave thee birth ! " 

" Avoid alcoholic drinks ; in no case are they needed by those 
in health. The indulgence awakens a longing that leads to every 
vice and levels human beings with brutes." 



304 MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFK. 



FRUITS AND CORDIALS. 

BRANDY PEACHES. 

Peel fine large peaches that are nearly ripe, 
weigh them, and allow half a pound of best white 
sugar to every pound of fruit. Put the sugar in a 
preserving kettle and cover it with water. Boil 
it fifteen minutes after it gets hot through, and 
carefully remove the scum. Then drop one dozen 
peaches in at a time, until you get all cooked 
enough to put a straw in. Take them out carefally 
with a skimmer and put them to cool on fiat dishes. 
When perfectly cold, put them in a jar, let the 
syrup cook thick, and when that is cold, mix half 
syrup and half French or apple brandy, and cover 
the peaches well with it. Keep them well cov- 
ered. 

BRANDY PEACHES. NO. 2. 

Peel your peaches and weigh them ; to every 
pound allow half a pound of sugar. Pack the 
peaches and sugar in a large stone ja'r, and fill it two 
thirds foil of apple or peach brandy. Cover the top 
of the jar with a thick dough made of flour and 
water, set it in a large dinner pot of cold water, put 
on the fire, and boil it two or three hours. These 
never spoil and the cordial is delicious. 



FEUITS AND COBDIALS. 305 



BRAUDT PEACHES. NO. 3. 

Peel large fine peaches nearly ripe, in the even- 
ing pat them in a bowl with their weight in loaf 
sugar, and let them stand nntil the next day. 
Then pour off the syrup in a kettle and let it boil ; 
drop the peaches in, a few at a time, until they are 
enough cooked to permit a straw to run in easily. 
Put them on flat dishes to cool, boil the syrup a 
little longer, and let that cool. Then put as much 
brandy as you have syrup and cover the peaches 
with it. These keep a long time. 

BEANDY PEACHES. NO. 4. 

Dip peaches in nice clear lye and rub them hard 
with a coarse towel until the down is all off ; slightly 
parboil them in hot water and rub them again. Al- 
low half a pound of sngar to one pound offiruit, and 
put it on the fire with half a pint of water to every 
pound. Put some allspice, a few cloves, and some 
lemon rind in the syrup. Boil it and remove the 
scum, drop the peaches in and give them a good 
boil up, and when cold, put them in a jar. Mix the 
brandy and syrup half and half when hot, and pour 
it over, and cork tight. Always clarify your syrup 
for peaches and other preserves with white of egg 
put in when the water is cold. 

NOETH CAEOUNA ESG-NOG. 

To make a gallon of egg-nog, take one dozen 
e^s, break them, and beat the whites and yelks 
90 



306 MRS. Elliott's housewife. 

separately. After the yelks have been beaten fif- 
teen minutes, put twelve tablespoonfuls of fine 
white sugar in them and beat them until they rise 
and are thick. The great secret of having it nice 
is to beat the yelks thick. Whip the whites to a 
stifi" froth, put half a pint of brandy in the yelks and 
sugar, and when well mixed, stir the whites slowly 
in. Have milk in a glass pitcher, to be added if 
preferred. 

bettie's egg-nog. 

Take the yelks of sixteen eggs and twelve table- 
spoonfuls of pulverized sugar, and beat them to the 
consistency of cream. Add two thirds of a nutmeg, 
grated, and beat well together. Then add half 
a pint of brandy, and two gills of Madeira wine. 
Have ready the whites of the eggs beat to a stiff 
iroth and stir it in the mixture ; stir in slowly three 
pints of rich milk. Egg-nog is a great drink for 
Christmas holidays, and is a good nourishment for 
sick persons that require a stimulant. 

TTJENIP WINE. 

Put sliced turnips in a cider press and press out 
all the juice ; to every gallon, put three pounds of 
sugar and half a pint of brandy ; keep it with 
something thin over it until it stops working, and 
then stop it close for three months. Change it then 
into another cask, and you will have a good, healthy 
wine. 

PEACH wrNE. 

Take fruit nearly ripe, stone it, and bruise it to a 



FKVIT5 AND CORDIALS. 307 

pulp, pnt one quart of water to eight pounds of 
pulp and let it stand twenty-four hours. Then 
strain out the juice, and to every gallon add two 
pounds of sugar. Pnt it in a cask and when fer- 
mented and becomes perfectly clear, cork it tightly 
in bottles and seal it. 

MBS. Stewart's blackebrkt wtnb. 
Measure the berries and bruise them. For 
every gallon one quart of boiling water. Let the 
mixture stand twenty-four hours, stirring it occa- 
sionally. Then strain off the liquor into a cask. 
For every gallon add two pounds of sugar. Cork 
tight and let it stand till the following October. 

TO MAKB EED GKAPE WTNE. 

Put forty pounds of black or red grapes in five 
gallons of cold water. Mix nine gallons of cider, 
twenty pounds of sugar, three handfuls of barberry 
leaves, two pounds of beet-root sliced, four ounces 
of red tartar; add four pounds of sassafras chips and 
one gallon of brandy, and you will have eighteen 
gallons of as nice wine as can be made in any part 
of our coontry. 

CIDEE WHITE WTNE. 

Take nine gallons of honey, two quarts of spring 
water, ten gallons of cider, two ounces of white 
tartar. Mix two ounces of cloves, same of cinna- 
mon and mace, and add to the liquid, then stir in 
half a gallon of rum or brandy. This will make 
ten gallons. 



308 MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



AMIS S GEAPE WINE. 

To two gallons of pure juice, put one gallon of 
water and two pounds of sugar. Put it in a cask 
and in three months it will be a nice wine. 

CHERRY BOITNCE. 

Put Morella and wild cherries in a cask or demi- 
john, and cover them with brandy ; let it remain 
three months closely stopped. Make a rich syrup 
of fine sugar and water, boil it thick, and when cold 
mix half syrup and half brandy from the cherries. 
This is delicious, and I have seen it thirty years 
old. Raspberry bounce is made the same way. 

RASPBERRY WINE. 

Make it like blackberries or with six gallons of 
water, four of cider, six of raspberries, twenty pounds 
of sugar, three ounces of red tartar, three quarts of 
brandy, with dry orange peel two ounces. Another 
way is to steam the berries. Boil the juice and 
to every gallon allow one pound and a half of sugar. 
Put it in a cask when cold, with a little nice yeast, 
and when it has ceased to ferment, add half pint of 
brandy to each gallon and cork it. 

TO MAKE NECTAR. 

Put one pound of loaf sugar into a large bowl, 
add one quart of cold water, stir until the sugar is 
all dissolved, pour over it one bottle of Madeira and 
one of hock, mix them well, grate half a nutmeg, 
with teaspoonfiil of lemon extract, and freeze it. 



FBTJITS AXD CORDIALS. -309 



PimCH. 

Make a rich lemonade, press the peel with a 
muddler on hard sugar, pour some hot water over 
the pulp and a little of the peel and strain it in 
when cold. Mix a little brandy and mm together, 
and make the punch pleasant to the taste ; set it on 
ice to cool or freeze it. Very nice slightly frozen. 

PERKY. 

This is a pleasant drink made icom pears, exactly 
as cider is made from apples. 

GOOSEBEKBT WHTE. 

Take four gallons and a half of water, and five 
gallons of gooseberries. Mix six pounds of sugar, 
four pounds of honey, one ounce of white tartar, 
one ounce of dry orange and lemon peel, or two 
ounces fresh, add half a gallon of light brandy, and 
you will have nine gallons of nice wine. " Currant 
wine may be, made the same way. It is good in 
six months. 

8TKAWBERKT WINE. 

Ten gallons of strawberries, eleven of water, 
twenty-five pounds of sugar, three ounces of red 
tartar, two lemons and two (oranges peel and juice), 
one gallon of brandy. This is delicious and keeps 
well. These were sent me by a friend. 



310 MRS. Elliott's housewife. 

FINCASTLE CURRANT WINE. 

Gather full ripe currants on a dry day, pick them 
from the stalks and weigh them ; crush them well 
with the hands, leaving none whole. To every two 
pounds of currants put one quart . of water ; stir it 
well and let it stand three hours ; then strain it 
through a sieve, and add one j)ouhd of sugar to 
every three pounds of currants ; stir it well, put it 
on to hoil and skim as long as any scum rises ; pour 
it off in a clean cask after it has stood sixteen hours 
to cool, and stop it close. If you make ten gallons, 
let it stand three weeks ; if twenty or thirty gallons, 
one month. When it is perfectly clear, put a lump 
of loaf sugar in your bottles, bottle it, and cork tight, 
and keep it in a cool place. If well made, it tastes 
like pale Sherry. 

SPRUCE BEER. 

Boil one handful of hops and two of sassafras-root 
in ten gallons of water, with two tops of young 
spruce pine, and while hot add one gallon of mo- 
lasses, two spoonfuls of ginger, and one of allspice ; 
when cool, add half a pint of good yeast, stir it well, 
put it in a cask and cover close. When fermented 
and clear, put it in bottles and cork tight. 

GINGER BEER FOR SUMMER. 

To one gallon of boiling water, put one pound of 
loaf sugar, one ounce of best ginger-root bruised, 
one of cream tartar or a sliced lemon ; stir it all un- 



FRUITS AND COKDULS. 311 

til the sugar is dissolved, let it stand ontil milk warm, 
then add one tablespoonfal of good hop yeast, 
poured over a slice of cold loaf bread, and allow it 
to float on the surface, and stand twenty-four hoars 
well covered ; then strain it and fiU clean bottles 
three fourths full ; cork with good corks and tie over. 
It wiU be fit for use in two days, and is a refreshing, 
healthy drink. 

GDfGEB WTN'E. 

Three gallons of water, three pounds of sngar, 
four ounces of race ginger washed in four waters, 
boil all well for one hour ; strain it through a sieve 
in a cask with three lemons cut up and two giUs of 
beer yeast ; shake it well, and cover the cask tight, 
let it stand to ferment until dear enough to bottle. 
It will be fit to drink in ten days after it is bottled. 

BLAOKBEEET CORDIAL. 

One quart of blackberry juice, one pound of white 
sugar, one tablespoonftd of cloves, same of allspice 
and cinnamon ; one pint of brandy, one nutmeg ; 
boil it well fifteen minutes, and bottle it hot. 

BLACKBERET WTSE. 

Pour one gallon of boiling water over one gallon 
of blackberries, beat them with a pestle in the wa- " 
ter and strain them when cold ; put three pounds 
of loaf sugar to each gallon and simmer it one half 
hour on the fire, then put it in bottles with thin 
muslin or lacs'- tied over the top ^without any stop- 



312 MRS. Elliott's hodskwife. 

per) and let it stand until October, and you will 
have a good imitation of Port wine. 

BLACKBERRY WINE. NO. 2. 

Mash any quantity you may have with a wooden 
pestle, and strain them ; to every gallon of juice put 
two quarts of water and three pounds of brown su- 
gar ; put it in a jar and stir it well, cover it with 
thin muslin and remove the scum that rises on the 
top every morning for one week, stir it every time, 
let it stand three weeks' in the jar, then put it in 
jugs with muslin tied' over until wine is made (about 
two months). Bottle and cork tight. 

fannie's blackberry wine. 
Boil and mash blackberries in a preserving kettle, 
when cold strain" them' through a cloth ; to every 
quart of the juice, add half a pound of loaf sugar, 
quarter of an ounce of nutmeg, same of allspice, 
cloves, and cinnamon ; boil it fifteen minutes, when 
cold, add one pint of French or apple brandy, and 
bottle it, sealing it up tight with wax. 

MRS. Jones's blackberry wine. 

Wash and pick the blackberries and mash them 
of an evening, strain them the next morning 
through thin muslin; to one pint of juice add nearly 
two pints of water, to one gallon (after all the wa- 
ter is put in), add three pounds of sugar ; put it in 
a jug, tie it over with muslin, and let it stand a 
fortnight to ferment ; then strain it off, and cork 
tight. 



FRUITS AXD COKDIALS. 313 

This country is famed for fine blackberries, and 
the recipes given have been well tried. 

SCUPPERNAUG WINE. 

Wash and mash scuppemauy grapes, and to 
every gallon add a pint of boiling water. Next 
morning strain them through a coarse cloth and to 
every gallon of juice put three pounds of crushed 
sugar. After it is well dissolved put it in a demi- 
john, tie a cloth over the top and put it where it 
will not be disturbed for six weeks ; never let it be 
shaken. Bottle it and cork as soon as the wine is 
ready. If good in five weeks, bottle it. This is a 
recipe for home-made scuppemaug. On Roanoke 
Island where the grape is in its native soil, it is 
made of the pure juice with a little burnt sugar to 
color it and sometimes brandy is added by partic- 
ular request. 

SPRUCE BEER. 

Boil one handfiil of hops and two of sassafras 
root in ten gallons of water, strain it, and while hot 
pour in one gallon of molasses with two large spoon- 
fhls of essence of spruce, same of ginger, and one of 
allspice ; when cold put it in a cask with half a pint 
of good yeast, stir it well, stop it close, and when 
fermented and clear, bottle it and cork tight. 

PEACH CORDIAL. 

Gather white heath or any nice eling-stone 
peaches, cut them to the stone in several places and 



314 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

fill jars or a cask. Cover them with peach brandy 
and let them remain eight weeks. Then to every 
gallon allow two pounds of sugar and half a pint of 
water. Make a syrup by boiling the sugar and 
water, and when it is cold, mix half syrup and half 
brandy ; bottle it or keep it in the cask. 

MOLASSES BEER. 

Boil five quarts of hops arid five of wheat bran in 
fifteen gallons of water, four hours, and strain it. 
Put it in a cask with one head out, and add five 
quarts of molasses, stir it and cover it with a cloth. 
When lukewarm stir in one quart of yeast, cover it 
with a cloth and board to fit close, and when it has 
fermented and looks clear, draw it ofi' and put it in 
bottles that are well cleaned ; soak the corks and 
cork tightly. 

LEMON CORDIAL. 

Cut six fresh lemons and put into three pints of 
milk, boil them until the whey is very clear, then 
pass it through a sieve. Put to the whey three 
pints of French brandy and three pounds of clari- 
fied sugar ; stir it until the sugar is dissolved. Let 
it stand to refine, then put some chips of lemon 
peel, cut thin, in bottles, and fill with the cordial. 
This keeps well and is very nice. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

The best I ever made was one quart of vinegar 
with one quart of fresh raspberries, put in every 



FETHTS AND CORDIALS. 315 

morning for three days, straining it before adding 
the fresh ones. The fourth day press the juice in 
straining it. Put one pound of loaf sugar to every 
pint of juice and stir it until it is well dissolved. 
Put it in pint bottles and cork tight. This is a fine 
beverage with ice in summer and very agreeable 
to the sick. 

ANOTHER RASPBERRY TDIEGAR. 

Put two pounds of the fruit and one of sugar in 
a porcelain kettle, and mash them well together. 
Cook it like a jam for twenty minutes, then stir in 
half a pint of cider vinegar to every pound. Give 
it one boil up and strain it. When cold, bottle and 
cork it. This keeps well but does not have the ex- 
quisite flavor of the fresh frxdt the other has. I 
have tested both for years. 

STRAWBERRY VINEGAR. 

Make strawberry vinegar exactly like raspberry. 

STRAWBERRY CORDIAL. 

Stew lipe strawberries twenty minutes and 
squeeze them through a linen bag. To each quart 
of juice put one pound of sugar and one pint of 
white brandy. Put it in a demijohn to stand two 
weeks, then filter it through a coarse muslin or a 
fine sieve and bottle it. 

RHUBARB WINE. 

Grate the stalks of rhubarb on a coarse grater. 



316 MBS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

strain the juice, and to each quart add three quarts 
of water and three pounds of brown sugar. Fill 
a demijohn to the brim with it and keep some to 
fill it as it wor'ks over. When it has done ferment- 
ing, put a little isinglass in to clarify it and bottle 
it. It will be good for use in two months, and the 
flavor resembles champagne. 

" Cleanliness is next to Godliness." 

Teach your children to value and loye the use of soap. Teach 
them to save their pennies to huy a nice cake of sweet soap, in- 
stead of the poisonous confections that seriously injure their 
health. Make them understand that cleanliness is essential to re 
spectability, and that they cannot be cleanly without the use of soap 
It not only purifies, but preserves the skin, and keeps the pores 
(which would otherwise be clogged, and constantly subjected to 
skin diseases,) open, and free to exercise their healthful functions. 

Use soap for the toilet, soap for the dishes, soap for the kitchen 
utensils, soap for the churn, soap for the pantry shelves, soap in 
the dairy room, soap on the windows, soap on the paint, soap on 
the floors, soap on the clothes, and soap on the slats of the bed- 
stead, — ants, bugs, and roaches will never stay where soap has 
cleared the filth away. 



MBCELLAUEOUS. 317 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

MOLASSES CAJiTDY. 

To boil one gallon of molasses, have a kettle or 
large iron pot that will hold three gallons. Put it 
over a hot fire and do not stir it. Let it boil for 
ten minutes and then try it, by dropping a little in 
cold water. If it ropes, stir it, bnt let it remain on 
the fire until you try it again. If thick, pour it 
out as quickly as possible in buttered dishes and let 
it get nearly cool before you take it out to pull. 
Work it until white, then puU it out and hang it in 
the cold air to crisp. I have frequently boiled a 
gallon in ten minutes and a quart in five,, by the 
same rule. Allowing it room to swell and never 
stirring it to admit the air and make it boil over. 
If you wish to flavor it, grate orange-peel or chip it 
fine, and put in just before it thickens. 

KNOW-NOTHING BAIJLS. 

Pop com nicely popped and rolled in boiled mo- 
lasses, the size of a large walnut, makes a nice ball 
for a change and children are fond of it. 

WALNUT CANDY. 

BoU the molasses as above, and stir in the kernel 
of walnuts just as it thickens. If you wish to pull 



318 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

it, put it on large buttered dishes. If not to be 
pulled, spread it thin on tin sheets. Let it cool and 
then break it up in small square pieces. Hickory- 
nut candy may be made the same way. 

BOILED SUGAR. 

Take three pounds of nice clarified sugar, put 
it in a porcelain kettle and wet it well with water, 
put in one tablespoonful of fresh butter and set it 
over a hot fire. Let it boil five minutes after it 
commences, then throw in half a tumbler glass of 
strong vinegar or the juice of two lemons. Stir it 
well arid let it boil until it ropes. Try it in a spoon 
and if it cools quick and thickens it is done. Take 
it from the fire and stir in lemon or vanilla extract 
to the taste. Pour it out on buttered dishes and 
pull it as warm as you can bear it in the hand. 
This is a nice candy and preferred to the confec- 
tioner's. The rind of the lemon can be boiled in it. 

ENGLISH WALlSrUT AND PECAN-NUT CANDY. 

Boil sugar as above, crack the nuts and put them, 
in halves, on buttered tins, and pour the boiled su- 
gar on each piece, while hot, with a large teaspoon, 

COCOANUT CANDY. 

Boil two pounds of sugar wet with water until it 
is very thick, and easily pulled. Then stir in the 
sugar as much grated cocoanut as yon wish and 
spread it thin on sheets of tin. It does not require 
any butter, and is hard to pull, but very nice. 



inSCELLAXEOUS. 319 



TO KBEP EGGS. 

Put four quarts of air-slacked lime in four quarts 
of water, two tablespoonfuls cream tartar, and two 
of salt. Put nine dozen fresh eggs in a jar, and 
pour this mixture over them. Keep them in a cool 
place. If the water settles away, add more to 
keep them under. They wiU keep for months. 

TO KEEP CEA2fBEEBIES. 

Pick them nicely, not leaving any that are not 
good and sound. Put them in a large wooden tub 
in a cellar and keep them in clear water an iach 
above the fruit. They are better kept this way, to 
stew them fresh when wanted. 

TO BOTTLE G00SEBEEB.IE3. 

Pick them when fuU grown, before they ripen, take 
off the stems and fill dry bottles with them nearly 
to the top, then cover them with cold water that has 
been boiled. Dig a bole in the ground and bury 
the bottles two feet deep. Keep perfect all winter. 

TO KEEP TOMATOES. 

Just before the first frosts in the fall of the year, 
pull the tomato vine up with the green ones on it, 
and hang them under a shelter by the root. They 
will ripen and taste good until Christmas. 

TO KEEP ONIONS. 

Dry them in the shade and string them in long 



320 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSKWIFE. 

bunches one above the other, and hang them in a 
dry place. Cut the tops off, leaving two inches to 
tie by. Take a small bundle of dry straw and tie 
them one by one on it. Largest at the bottom and 
so on, with a loop left at the top to hang them up. 

TO KEEP IRISH POTATOES. 

Dig them in dry weather, and put them in the 
shade to dry as soon as dug. Never let them be 
exposed to the hot sun. Turn them about carefully 
every day 'or two for the first week, and then keep 
them in a dry place with straw sprinkled between^ 
and when very cold cover them with straw. Never 
keep potatoes near salt in a damp climate. Char- 
coal sprinkled between them, keeps them very nice. 

DRYING PUMPKINS. 

Cut the pumpkin up and stew it until sofib and 
dry, pound and strain them through a colander; 
then grease pie pans, and spread it on a quarter of 
an inch thick, and dry it ; roll it up after it is dry, 
and keep it in a tight box or bag from the insects. 
Each one will make a pie. 

TO CAN CORN. 

Boil it fifteen minutes on the ear, then dry the 
grains in pans an hour in the sunshine ; salt it just 
as you would for the table ; fill tin cans, leaving an 
inch of space ; put one gill of water in each can, 
and have an aperture size of a pin in the cover for 
the gas to escape ; then place the tins in a kettle of 



MISCELLAlffiOUS. 321 

water within an inch of the top of the can, and boil 
moderately forty-five minutes. This will keep 
sweet all winter. 

ANOTHER WAT TO CAN CORN. 

Boil green com nntil half done, cut it from the 
cob and pack it in stone jars, layer of com, and 
layer of salt ; when wanted for use, soak it all night 
and put it in fresh water next morning until you 
want to cook it. 

TO PRESERVE CORN. 

Cut the grain of young green com lengthways, 
and scrape it from the cob with a knife, then cook 
it thoroughly with salt and a little sugar, as you 
would for the table. Heat your cans, put it in hot 
frx>m the kettle, and seal instantly. When you wish 
to use it, heat it and serve with butter or cream. 

TO KEEP LEMONS. 

Cover lemons with milk or buttermilk, and they 
wiU keep moist and unhurt for weeks. 

TO KEEP LEMONS EOR LEMONADE. 

Slice them through when perfectly fresh, and 
pack the sUces in glass jars with a thick layer of 
fine white sugar between, and they will keep good 
one year. 

• TO BROWN FXX)UR. 

Take a diy clean spider or pan, put flour in it, 
sjetit over the fire and carefiilly stir and scrape the 

21 



822 MES. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

bottom of the pan to keep it from scorching; when 
it is a dark brown, spread it on a dish or paper to 
cool. Keep it in a paper bag or jar to thicken gra- 
vies or soups. 

TO KEEP FLIES FROM WINDOWS. 

Boil garlic in the water you wash them with. 

TO BOTTLE FRUITS. 

Every housekeeper has accumulated bottles ; al- 
ways have them cleaned before putting them away ; 
save the wide-mouth ones for fruits that are stoned, 
and the long neck for catchup and tomatoes to 
preserve for pottage. Make a wax of one pound of 
rosin, two ounces of beeswax, and two of Spanish 
brown, slowly melted together. When you wish to 
put up fruit, put the bottles nicely cleaned in a ket- 
tle of cold water and set it over the fire ; have corks 
the right size soaking in water. Peel your peaches 
and put them in a preserving kettle without any 
water, and waiin them briskly, stirring from the 
bottom to prevent their burning before the juice is 
made from the heat ; while the bottles are hot in 
the kettle, fill them with the peaches that have been 
heated through^ cover the peach with the liquor up 
to the cork, put the cork in, dip it in the hot wax, 
and then in cold water or ice, and smooth it with a 
knife. This is an easy and sure way of keeping 
fruits for the winter if the directions are careftJly 
followed. Raspberries, blackberries, and strawber- 
ries must not boil but ten minutes. Gooseberries, 



insCELLAXEOUS. 323 

cnrrants, and pie-plant most be well cooked before 
they are put in, tomatoes must be sliced and boiled 
twenty minutes, then strained through a colander, 
to remove the skins, returned to the kettle and 
boDed up again, and the bottles filled when hot, 
corked and sealed as the frnits. Keep them in a 
cool, dry place. If you use tin cans, place them in 
cold water as soon as filled ; have a wide mouth 
Amnel, perforated ladle, sound fruit, and seal up in- 
gtcmtly while the fimit is boiling hot, and you will 
never lose it. 

TO CAN PEACHES WITH SUGAR. 

Place your cans in a kettle of boiling water, peel 
and halve your peaches, sweeten to taste as yon 
would for the table ; put them in your preserving 
kettle without any water, and heat them through. 
Fill the cans with the hot peaches and see that 
every crevice is filled with syrup ; close the can im- 
mediately ; fill the grooves with wax ; put a piece 
of ice or some cool water instantly on it, and smooth 
it with a knife. Work with dispatch in putting up 
fi-uits or vegetables, see that they are fresh and 
fi«e icam. any decayed spots, and seal while boiling 
hot, and you have the whole mystery of potting. 
Always place tin cans in cold water as soon as 
they are sealed. 

HARD SOAP. 

Pour four gallons of boiling water over six pounds; 
of sal-soda and three pounds of nnslacked lime, stir 



324 MEs. Elliott's housewife. 

it well and let it settle until perfectly- clear ; let It 
stand all night. When clear, strain the water off 
and jrut six pounds of nice grease with it and boil 
for two hours, stirring it most of the time. If it 
does not seem thin enough poiir another gallon of 
water over the lime, stir it and drain it off, and 
add a little at the time it is wanted, to the boiling 
mixture. Try it by putting a little on a plate to 
cool, and if thick as you wish stir in a handfiil of 
salt just before taking it from the fire. Have a 
large tub well soaked to keep the soapfrom sticking. 
Let it remain until solid and you will have forty 
pounds of nice white soap. 

SOFT SOAP. 

Put ten pounds of potash in a half barrel, next 
day add twelve pounds grease, stir it well and then 
add one gallon of boiling water. Add the same 
quantity boiling hot every day until the barrel is 
ftill, stirring it all the time. If you wish to make 
less, use three pounds of grease and two and a half 
pounds of potash. 

COMMON SOAP. 

Save your kitchen grease, melt and strain it, put 
it in a large iron pot and slowly add the lye from 
good wood ashes (oak or hickory is the best), cook 
it until it ropes, stirring often with a wooden pad- 
dle. If you wish it thick, add a handful of salt just 
as you take it from the Qvp 3,pd stir it well in. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 325 

SOAP WITH POTASH. 

One pound of white rock potash maizes fifteen 
pounds of white hard soap or a half barrel of soft. 
Dissolve one pound of the potash in one gallon of 
boiling water ; add five pounds of hot, melted, clean 
grease, stirring it quickly until it is smooth and 
clear, then pour it in a box mould. Another way 
is to dissolve one pound of the potash in three and 
a half gallons of boiling water, and add five pounds 
of grease, boiling and stirring until the grease and 
lye are combined (nearly ten hours), add a little 
salt and it will bring all the soap to the top. Then 
dip it out in a mould or box and cut it in bars when 
cold. In boiling it may be necessary to add water 
as it is evaporated. New grease requires longer 
boUihg than old. 

To make yellow soap, dissolve two pounds of 
resin in the grease before adding the lye, and put 
rosemary, sassafiras, or Bergamot to scent it. 

TO PKEPABB WASHTNG FLTJTD. 

Boil one pound of sal soda and half a pound of 
nnslacked lime in a gallon of water twenty minutes. 
When cool, drain it off and put it in a jug. Soak 
your clothes over night, then wring them out and 
rub on plenty of soap ; cover them with wateiv in 
Tonr wash-kettle, add a cupful of fluid, boil half an 
hour, rinse, and hang out. This is an invaluable 
recipe. Try it. 



326 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

One tablespoon&l compound spirits of ammonia, 
in a basin of water, removes the unpleasant odor 
from perspiration. 

Fresh meat must be put in boiling water, with 
one tablespoonful of salt to a gallon of water. Salt 
meat must be in cold water, boiled slowly and kept 
constantly boiling and well skimmed. 

Cooking can be improved by a judicious use of 
sugar and molasses. All rye and coarse wheat 
bread should have a little molasses in it. 

We are born to trouble, as the sparks fly upward. 

Trouble? In what? in every calling. This world's charms 
would unfit us for the necessary preparation for the rest of the 
soul, if troubles were not wisely interwoven. As they are sent for 
good, let us take them by submitting to whatever falls to ouy lot. 
Compare them to a bundle of fagots, far too large for us to lift. 
He who sends them, does not require us to carry all at once. Ask 
Him mercifully to untie the bundle and give us one stick we are 
to carry to-day, and another to-morrow, and so on. We can learn 
to surmount aU troubles, if we will only take the burden appointed 
for each day ; but if we choose to increase by taking the stick 
from the bundle that was allotted to yesterday, and carrying it 
■ with to-day's, ever making the morrow's burden heavier before re- 
quired to bear it, we can never learn to say, 

" Thy wiU, God, be done." 



CARE OF THE SICK. 327 



CAKE OF THE SICK. 

NTTRSING THE SICE. 

All physicians admit that good nursing is a great 
help to their sldlL Was there ever one known to 
object to a female administering to the wants of his 
patients ? The noiseless step, the patient, watchfiil 
care, the gentle voice, the tender raising from the 
hot pillow, the steady breeze of wind from the fen 
to cool the fevered brain, the arrangement of the 
hair, smoothing the coverlid, bathing the temples, 
mixing the medicines, and last but not least, pre- 
paring necessary nourishment for the sick, all come 
under the immediate head of one of God's designs, 
when He created woman as an help-meet for man. 
Cultivate a love for these duties ; no station in life 
is exempt from them. Sickness and death are the 
consequences of Adam's fall, and both rich and poor 
have to yield to the attacks of one and obey the 
summons of the other. The-soothing voice of wo- 
man has been known to quiet and luU to sleep the 
unfortunate victim whose reason has been de- 
throned. The earnest, heartfelt prayer of the wo- 
man of Canaan, with her faith so beautifiilly exem- 
plified in her appeal, moved her compassionate Lord, 



328 MES. ..ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

and His reply was, " Be it unto thee even as thou 
wilt." In the dead hour of night, when stillness 
reigns ; in the morn, noon, and eventide, offer a 
prayer to Him, to bless the means used for the 
recovery of those intrusted to your care. The 
Holy Spirit may bless your efforts,, and impress 
Heaven's image on the heart. If the dread sum- 
mons should be feared, gently prepare their mind 
to receive it, looking upon their passage through 
the valley and shadow of death, as a pleasant jour- 
ney made easy by the presence of Him who sent it. 
How many souls that are precious in His sight 
might be assisted in their preparation for the " world 
to come," by the influence of their nurse, for which 
labor of love females are peculiarly fitted, and I 
urge them to encourage a love for it. 



FOE THE SICK. 329 



FOR THE SICK. 

NtPTSmOUS COlTPOSITIOlf. 

Mix equal quantities of sage and cocoa, put one 
tablespoonful in a pint of sweet nulk, add half 
a pint of boiling water, and boil it a few minutes. 
Stir it all the time ; add sugar and nutmeg to 
the taste. 

CHICKEN WATER. 

BoU a young chicken or piece of an old one to 
make one quart of chicken water. Boil it until the 
meat leaves the bone, and put nothing in it but 
a pinch of fine salt. 

CHICKEir XEIXT. 

Pound a nicely cleaned young chicken, bones 
and all, and put it. on to boil in one gallon of water 
with a little salt. Tie up a tablespoonM of rice and 
drop in it until it is soft ; then take the rice out and 
boil it down to one pint. Strain the jelly from 
the chicken and let it cool. One tablespoonM 
of this is as nourishing as a soup-plate of soup 
would be, and more delicate. 

WINE WHEY. 

Put one pint of new milk in a porcelain sauce- 
pan and let it boil up. When puflFed i^ to the 



330 JiRs. Elliott's housewife. 

top, dash one gill of Madeira or Sherry wine in ; let 
it boil up again, then strain it from the card ; and 
sweeten it with loaf sugar to the taste. 

GRUEL. 

Put on a pint -of water to boil and slowly stir 
in two tablespoonfuls of fine corn meal. Cook it 
until it tastes done. Season it with a little salt and 
very little sugar, and grate nutmeg over the top. 

TOAST WATER. 

Toast slowly until a pretty brown two slices of 
loaf bread (home made), put it in a pint of cold 
water, and let it stand one hour before using it. 

CORN BREAD WATER. 

Make a simple bread of meal and water, and 
bake it thin and hard, but not too brown, and use 
for delicate persons as loaf bread toast water. 

BUTTERMILK. 

Sweeten fresh buttermilk from the chum, put 
a few drops of lemon extract in it, and envelop the 
glass or tin cup in ice, until nearly frozen, or put it 
in a pint tin bucket and freeze it, as for ice-cream. 

BUTTERMILK. NO. 2. 

Boil one quart of fresh buttermilk, and when hot, 
stir in one tablespoonfiil of com meal, sifted through 
coarse muslin and rubbed smooth with cold water, 
put a pinch of salt in, boil and stir it fifteen min- 



FOR THE SICK. 331 

utes, sweeten it, and dust a little cinnamon over 
the top. 

MTT.K THICKENBD. 

Boil one quart of milk, wet three tablespoonfiils 
of flour (finely sifted), roll it up in a soft, smooth 
paste, and when the milk boils up stir it in, and con- 
tinue to stir and boil for ten minutes. Put a pinch 
of salt in the milk, and when done, sweeten il to 
taste and grate nutmeg over it. 

BOILED CtrSTAKD. 

Boil one pint of mQk: with two tablespoonfdls of 
sugar in it, beat two eggs, and when the milk pu£&, 
stir it in. This is sufficiently rich for the sick. 

miSH MOSS. 

Wash and pick two tablespoonfbls of Irish moss 
and pour one pint of boiling water over it. Set it 
over the fire, and stir until all is dissolved, and 
when cool sweeten it, and grate nutmeg over the 
top. Use nulk if you prefer it. I have found it an 
excellent nourishment for a sick infant, with milk. 

ABKOW-ROOT. 

Put one pint of water on to boU in a saucepan with 
a pinch of salt ; rub one teaspoonftd best Bermuda 
arrow-root smooth with watei", and when the water 
boils, stir it slowly in and cook it until it has no raw 
taste. Sweeten it with loaf sugar. The finest child 
I ever saw was raised on this quantity per daj' by 
the advice of a physician, with a delicate mother's 
milk. 



332 MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 



AEROW-ROOT BLANCMANGE. 

Boil one quart of milk, rub an ounce of arrow- 
root smooth with cold milk, and a little salt. Stir it 
in when the milk is hot and cook it four minutes ; 
pour it off through muslin, sweeten, and flavor to 
taste. If the sick prefer cinnamon or vanilla bean, 
always boil it in the milk. 

MULLED CIDER AND WINE. 

Put a teacupful of either, with same of water, on 
the fire to boil with a little allspice. Beat three 
eggs and mix with lialf a pint cider or wine, and stir 
ti in when it boils; sweeten to taste, and nutmeg 
grated. 

BEEF, VEAL, AND CHICKEN TEA. 

Cut slices of beef, veal, or chicken, and put them 
in a covered dish. Set it over a steam-kettle and 
pour boiling water over it ; one pint is generally 
enough. Let it stand one hour. Then pour it off 
and season with a pinch of salt. This is very good 
for delicate persons, when but little nourishment is 
required. 

RICE JELLY. 

Boil one teacup of nicely washed rice in two 
quarts of water untU perfectly soft. Strain it and 
season with a little salt, or sugar and butter, with 
nutmeg grated over the top. Very nutritious, and 
preferable to the grains of rice. 



FOR THE SICK. 333 

MILK PORRIDGE. 

Enb a tablespoonM of flour smooth with cold 
water or milk and a little salt. BoU one quart of 
nulk, and when it comes up, stir the flour in and 
boil it five minutes. Sweeten it with loaf sugar, 
and grate nutmeg over the top. 

APPLE WATER. 

Wrap paper around apples and nicely roast them. 
Pour boiling hot water over them, and set it in 
water to cool or on ice. 

BAKED APPLES. 

Peel and core them, fill the space with sngar, put 
them in a pan with a little water, and slowly bake 
them. 

PANADA. 

Put a half pint of water on the fire in a porcelain 
saucepan, add a wine-glass of wine and dessert 
spoonful of sugar ; grate some nice cold bread, wet 
it with some of the water from the stew-pan, and 
stir it in at once. Two tablespoonfids will be 
enough for this quantity. 

PANADA. NO. 2. 

Toast some bread and cut it in small pieces. 
Make a wine sangaree and pour it over the bread. 
Grate nutmeg over the top. 



334 MKS. Elliott's housewife. 

CHICKEN PANADA. 

Boil a chicken nearly done. Take the white 
meat from the bone and l<Jt it cool. Save some of 
the water it was boiled in. Pound the chicken to 
a paste, and boil it in the water you saved until it 
jellies. Season it with salt, nutmeg, and a little 
lemon. 

CHICKEN TEA. 

Take the chicken left from the panada and boil 
it with a little mace, slice of onion, and five grains 
of pepper. 

BATH-EOOM. 

Every house should have a bath-room. What 
luxury can compare to a good bath, immersing the 
body, showering it, or throwing the water with the 
hand. It refines and elevates both soul and body. 
Not only cleanses the outer surface, but purifies all 
within and produces a happy feeling in discharging 
our first duty to self. It reanimates and brings into 
vigorous action, physically and mentally, the organs 
of the body, each dependent on the other to sus- 
tain life and the strength required for work. A 
surf bath in the ocean lulls to sleep, and gives a 
foretaste of Paradise in its soothing, peaceful efiect. 
When aroused, the feeling is like " a giant refreshed 
with wine." 

" Gro and wash in the Pool of Siloam ; " cleanse 
the heart by its spiritual effect, so the body by its 
visible, before it can be healed. " Wash and be 
clean, and thy sins shall be done away, the filth of 
the soul cleansed by the spirit, while the " body is 



FOB TEE SICK. 335 

purified by the element, given by the Creator, so 
necessaiy to all the wants of man. See how the 
beasts seek water and love to stand in it — fowls 
and birds of the air. Even the little canary in his 
cage will flutter in the water, and sing sweet notes 
after its bath. The ducks quack with delight, and 
the pea-fowl struts and fans out his beautiful feath- 
ers, sounding shrill notes of joy at the prospect of a 
nice wash from a shower. Should man, made 
after God's image (though subjected to the filth of 
the flesh), leave such wisdom, given to him as a 
reasonable being, to be exercised by brutes that 
perish, to elevate them above his moral nature. 
No, such was not intended. Though man was 
made to be the head and leiTig supreme over his 
• femily, yet woman's daily habits are not only imi- 
tated by him, but those she has to lead in the piu-e 
way. Then as a Scripture injunction, teach them 
to purge the filth of the flesh by bathing the body, 
as typical of the cleansing of the soul before it can 
appear before its Maker, as well as the washing of 
the body before we appear before our families. 

The parlor is not noticed last, from its conducing 
to no good end. The dining-room and chamber, 
more strictly suited to comfort and convenience 
claimed the first. Parlors are expected to be al- 
ways in readiness to receive guests, where no busi- 
ness will iaterfere while entertaining them. The 
present fashion of keeping them dark, even in our 
small towns, is very good for negligent housekeep- 



336 MRS. Elliott's housewife. 

ers, who give but one dusting a week. My idea 
is, that children should be accustomed to the bright 
• parlor, decorated with sweet flowers and works of 
art, from their earliest childhood, and not taught to 
shun it as they do all dark places. How frequently 
the mother leads a stray child out in sobs, when re- 
ceiving morning calls, because it wanted to see the 
pictures on the walls or curiosities on the Stagere. 
If they were allowed the use of the closed room, 
their manners, when matured, would be free from 
the awkwardness so many young people display 
that have not had boarding-school advantages. 
Daily admit the pure air and light of heaven in the 
room selected to preserve the features of those 
whose place you are filling. Let the soft light from 
the painter's touch of that once bright, sparkling 
eye, beaming as it were from a guardian angel, in- 
spire all to imitate the noble example, with the 
good name, so far above riches ; and the vices ever 
frowned on by that noble brow, will find no resting 
place with those whose blood emanates from the 
same source. Entering the parlor with ease and 
grace, speaks volumes in the mother's praise. Shy- 
ing off to a corner shows the parlor was too good 
for their child's, and only for stranger's enjoyment. 
Let them learn the use without abuse of everything ; 
that nothing is too good for them you enjoy, and 
parlor amusements are to refine, and form habits 
in early life, that will not need a polish as burnished 
steel, when age entitles them to fill your place, en- 
tering a President's mansion or the social hall. 



INDEX. 



Dkdicatiox, ni. 

Pbefack, t. 

Weights ahd Mkasubes, xiiL 

Pbelimtsabt. 

First Dneetion, 1 
FMrviding for die Table, 3. 
A Place fiw Eveiything, 4. 
Sdection of Servants, 9. 



Tmtle Soup, 10. 

Beef Soup, IL 

Soup made iritli Beef Sliank, 11. 

^ster Soap, 12. 

Chicken Sonp,12. 

CalTg Head Soup, 13. 

Calfs Head Stew, 13. 

Granville Honae Sonp^ 14. 

Dried Pea Sonp, 14. 

Fish Soap, 14. 

Lobster Soup, 15. 

Tomato Sonp, 15. 

Oyster Sonp, No. 2, 15. 

Soap made with Tongh Fow1e,16. 

Green Pea Sonp, 16. 

Asparagns Sonp, IS. 

Slaccaroni Sonp, 17. 

Vermicelli, 17. 

Mnk Sonp, 18. 

Cream Soap, 18. 

Corny Sonp, 18. 

New t>rleans Gnmbo, 19. 

Okra Gnmbo, 19. 

Ham-bone Sonp, 30. 

Boaidiog-bou^ Keepers, 90. 



BoDed Sock Ksh, 22. 

Bntter Sance, ^. 

Baked Shad, 23. 

Barbecne Shad, 23. 

Fried Sbad, 23. 

Shad and Boe, 33. 

Fresh Herrings, 24. 

Salt Herrings, 24. 

Eds, 21. 

Anchovy, 24. 

Sheep's-head, 24. 

Baked Sheep's4iead, 2S. 

Spots, or Hog-fish, with Onions, 

25. 
To boil Sturgeon, 25. 
Sturgeon St^ks, 26. 
Stntgeon Pickled, 26. 
To bake Stmgeon, 26. 
Stoigeon Cntlets, 26. 
To pwkle Sbad, 27. 
Corned Sbad, 27. 
Salt Corned Shad, 27. 
Quaker Potted Herring, 28. 
Carolina Potted Herring, 88. 
CUm Fritters, 28. 
Ovster Omelet, 29. 
dysta Fritters, 29. 
Stewed Oyster?, 29. 
C^ter Sance, 30. 
Pickled Oysters, Ko. 1, 30. 
Pickled djeten. Mo. 2, 30. 
Oyster Boast, 30. 
Oysters Fried, 31. 
Terrapins, 3L 

Shrimps, (Observations), 33. 
Trout, 32. 

Perch, Spots, and Hog-fi^ 33. 
Boacb, Smelts, Gudgeons, IGn- 

nows, -33. 



338 



INDEX. 



To broil Mackerel, 33. 
Lobster Salad, 33. 
To preserve Fish for Transporta- 
tion, 33. 
A nice Salad Dressing, 34. 
Salad Dressing with Oil, 34. 
Scolloped Lobster, 34. 
Devil Crabs, 34. 
Crabs served plain, 35. 
Lobster Patties, 35. 
Crab Patties, 35. 
Hard Crabs, boiled, 36. 
Fresh Cod-fish, 36. 
Cod Soundsy 36. 
Baked Cod or Haddock, 36. 
To crimp Cod, 36. 
Salmon, 37. 
Cat fish, 37. 
Cat-fish Pie, 37. 
Cod-fish Balls, 37. 
Chowder, 38. 
Boston Chowder, 38. 
Stewed Halibut, 38. 
Sauce for Fish, 39. 
Another Fish Sauce, 39. 
Brown Sauce for Baked Fish, 39. 
Apple Sauce, 40. 
Sage, Onion, and Thyme Sauce, 

40. 
Frogs, 40. * 

To stew Frogs, 41. 
Muscles, 41. 
Fish Pie, 41. 
Rock Chowder, 41. 
Clam Chowder, 42. 
Fish cooked with Oil, 42. 
Fish stewed with Wine, 42. 
White Fish Sauce, 43. 
Boarders, 43. 



Gates' Becipe for curing Hams, 45. 
Pickle for curing Bacon, 46. 
Sausage Meat, 46. 
Admiral Pocock's Recipe for 

Corned Beef, 46. 
McMorine's Corned Beef, 47. 
Dried Beef, 47. 
Ham boiled with Herbs, 47. 
Mew Ham, boiled, 48. 
Ham boiled in Wine, 48. 
Fannie's Stuffed Bam, 48. 
Boned Ham, 48. 
Fried Ham with Eggs, 49. 
Roast Ham, 49. 



Boiled Ham, 50. 

Boast Beef, 50. 

Mutton and Lamb, 50. 

Venl, 51. 

Melissa's Stuffed Beef, 51. 

Randolph's Beef Alamode, 51. 

Bouilli Beef, 52. ► 

Fried Beefsteak, 52 

Potato Beef, 53. 

Beef Patties, 53. 

Beefsteaks, 53. 

Mutton Chops, 54. 

Veal Cutlets, 54. 

Veal Chops, 54. 

Baked Beef Tongue, 55. 

Boiled Beef Tongue, 55. 

CalPs Tongue, 55. 

Hog's Tongue, 56. 

Hog's Brains, 56. 

Fried Tripe, 56. 

Cattle Feet, 56. 

Hog's Feet, 57. 

Lamb roasted or baked, 57. 

Boiled Lamb, 67. 

Boast Pig, 58. 

To bake Quarters of Pig, 69. 

Pork and Beans, 59. 

Pork Cutlets, 59." 

Broiled Pork Steaks, 60. 

To roast a Loin of Pork, 60. 

Pork Stew, 60. 

Corned Pork, 60. 

Pig's Head Stew, 61. 

Blood Pudding, 61. 

Liver Pudding, 61. 

Sausage Meat, No. 1, 62. 

Sausage Meat, No. 2, 62. 

Beef Sausage Meat, 62. 

To fry Liver, 63. 

A well ordered bome, 63. 



Cleaning Poultry, 64. 

To fatten Turkevs and Ducks, 65. 

Roast Turkey, 66. 

Roast Goose, 67. 

Wild Goose and Duck,- 67. 

Green Goose Pie, 68. 

To bake a Goose, 68. 

Broiled Teal, 68. 

Canvas-back Ducks, 69. 

B^ked Ducks, 69. 

Bfliied Turkey, 70. 

Opossum, 70. 

Barbecue Oppssiim, 71. 



INDEX. 



339 



Baked Chicken Pie, 71 . 
Stewed Pot-pie, 72. 
Chicken with Rice, 72. 
Boast or baked Chicken, 73. 
Chicken Salad, 73. 
Boiled Turkej' Salad, 73. 
Salad with Celery-seed, 74. 
Irish Potato Salad, 74. 
Fricasseed Chickenx, 74. 
Broiled Chicken, 75. 
Boiled Chicken, 75. 
Chicken fried in Batter,,75. 
Plain fried Chicken, 75. 
Chicken fried with Tomatoes, 

76. 
Beefsteak with Tomatoes, 76. 
Brun.swick Stew, 76. 
Louisiana Squirrel Pie, 77. 
Fried Squirrels, 77. 
Squirrel Barbecue, 77. 
Broiled Squirrel, 77. 
Maccaroni with Beef, "78. 
Vermicelli and Semolino, 78. 
Welsh Rabbit, 78. 
Cheese Stew, 78. 
Roast Cheese, 78. 
Macaroni, 79. 
To stew Macaroni, 79. 
Macaroni Pie, 79. 
Employment, 80. 

CUKED MEATS, ETC. 

To cure Scotch Hams, 81. 

To try Lard, 81. 

To make common Lard, 82. 

Chitterlings, 82. ' 

Hog's-hea I Cheese, 82. 

Beef p-head Cheese, 83. 

Cripple, 83. 

Bettie's Sausages, 84. 

Bologna Sausages, 84. 

Game, 84. 

To clean Beef Tripe, 85. 

Louisiana Doube, 85. 

A Fricandeau of Beef, 86. 

Beef Robart, 86. 

English Stew, 86. 

Brown Stew, 86. 

To stew an Ox Tongue, 87. 

Spiced Round of Beef, 87. 

Cold Pickle for Beef, 87. 

Meat Jelly, 88. 

Mrs. W.'a French Stew, 88. 

Mrs. W.'s Baked Beef, 88. 

Mrs. W.'s Ham with Jelly, 89. 



To collar a Breast of Veal, 89. 

Venison, 89. 

Mutton to eat like Venison, 90. 

Turkey Salad, 90. 

Croquets, 90. 

Mutton Cutlets, 91. 

To hone a Turkey, 91. 

Sauce Mayonnaise, 91. 

Another t'ickle for Corned Beef, 

92. 
To fry Chipped Beef, 92. 
To cook Calf 8 Liver, 93. 
To cook Beefs Heart, 93. 
Scotland Neck Sausage Meat, 93. 
Giblet Stew, 94. 
Onion Sauce, 94. 
To cook Pigeons or Partridges, 

95. 
To smother Birds, 95. 
Bird Pie, 95. 

VEGETABLES. 

Carolina Sweet Potato, 96. 

Squash, 96. 

Winter Squash, 96. 

Cauliflower and Broccoli, 96. 

Stuffed Cabbage, 97. 

Radishes, 97. 

Winter Cress or Pepper Grass, 97. 

Turnips, 98. 

Succatash, 98. 

Cabbages, 98. 

Beets, 98. 

Spinach, 99. 

Parsnips, 99. 

Poke-root Sprouts, 99. 

Salsify, 99. 

Onions, 99. 

Fried Onions, 100. 

Broiled Tomato, 100. 

Baked whole Tomato, 100. 

Corn Pudding, with Tomato, 

100. 
Com Fritters, 101. 
Turnip Salad, 101. 
Asparagus, 101. 
Baked Tomatoes, 102. 
Stewed Tomatoes, 102. 
Snap Beans, 102. 
Lima, or Butter Beans, 102. 
Fried Irish Potato, 102. 
Fried Cucumbers, 103. 
Stewed Irish Potatoes, 103. 
Fried Corn, 103. 
Fried Apples, 103. 



840 



INDEX. 



Fried Sweet Potatoes, 104. 

To bake Navy Beans, 104. 

Fried Potato Cakes, 104. 

I.ish Potato Pudding, 105. 

Beet Pudding, 105. 

Turnip Fritters, 105. 

Cymbling Fritters, 105. 

Egg-plant in Batter, 105. 

Egg-plant fried, 106. 

Egg-plant stuffed, 106. 

Tomatoes sliced, 106. 

Okra, 106. 

Okra Fritters, 106. 

Okras fried, 107. 

Cold Slaw, 107. 

Cold Slaw, 107. 

Lettuce dressed, 107. 

Lettuce with Oil, 107. 

Cucumbers sliced, 108. 

Sour-krout, 108. 

To cook Sour-krout, 109. 

To boil Irish Potatoes, 109. 

New Potatoes, 109. 

Mashed Potatoes, 109. 

Edible Mushrooms, 110. 

To stew Mushrooms, 110. 

To stew Mushrooms — an easy 

way, 111. 
To broil Mushrooms, 111. 
Louisiana Green Pea Recipe, 111. 
Tomato Fritters, 111. 

DRINKS. 

Coffee, 112. 

To make good Coffee, 113. 
Coffee, No. 2, 114. 
Coffee, No. 3, 114. 
Coffee, No. 4, 115. . 
She stretcheth out her Hand», 
115. 



Coarse Bread, 117. 

Carolina Biscuit, 117. 

Mixed Bread, 117. 

Batter Bread, 118. 

Loaf Bread without Lard, 118. 

Tabb's Muffins, 118. 

Pocket-book Bolls, 118. 

Crackers, 119. 

Caraway Cookies, 119. 

Muffins, 120. 

Sweet Potato Rolls, 120. 

Nice Rolls, 120. 



Ash Cake, 120. 

Flour Ash Cake, 121. 

Virginia Ash Cake, 121. 

Plain Com Bread, 121. 

Com Meal Muffins, 122. 

Fannie's Sallv Lunn, 122. 

Bftiie's Waffles, 122. 

Milk Yeast Bread, 123. 

Batter Yeast Bread, 123. 

Corn Meal Bread, 123. 

Nice Loaf Bread, 123. 

Sallv Lunn, 124. 

Unbolted Flour Muffins, Ui. 

French Rolls, 124. 

Saratoga Rolls, 124. 

Beauregard Biscuits, 125. 

Beauregard Bread, 125. 

Mrs. Laudis's Rusk, N. C, 126. 

Plain Loaf Bread, 126. 

Mrs. Couterier's Rusli, S. C, 127. 

Clara's Sally Lunn, S. C, 127. 

For Housekeepers, 127. 

Muffin Bread, No. 2, 128. 

Muffin Bread, No. 3, 128. 

Muffins, 128. 

Muffins, No. 4, 123. 

Cotton Bread, 129. 

Mush Cakes, 129. 

Muffins, No. 5, 129. 

Muffin Bread for Tea, 129. 

Another Recipe for Muffins, 129. 

Muffin Bread, 129. 

Drop Cakes, 130. 

Cream of Tartar Biscuits, 130. 

To make Buckwheat or Johnny- 
cake, 130. 

French Rolls, No. 2, 130. 

Velvet Cakes, 131. 

Muffins, 131. 

Yellow Sulphur Springs Bread, 
131. 

Sally Luan, 132. 

Clara's Cheese Toast, 132. 

German Toast, 132. 

Milk Toast, 133. 

Risen Short-cake, 133. 

South Carolina Biscuit, (Mrs 
Stewart,) 134. 

Mrs. Stewart's "Waffles, 134. 

Clara's Buttermilk Cakes, 135. 

Velvet Cakes, 135. 

Risen Biscuit, 135. 

Risen Short-cake, 135. 

Strawbeny Short-cake, 136. 



INDEX. 



341 



Nice Rolls, 136. 

Drop Biscuit, 136. 

Carolina Egg-cakes, 136. 

Rice Batter-cakes, 137. 

Rice Corn Bread, 137. 

Nice Breakfast Cakes, 137. 

Risen Wafers, 137. 

Cream Griddle-cakes, 138. 

Ames' Sally Lunu, 138. 

Thorpe's Sally Lunn, 138. 

Cream Renversee, 139. 

Cream Cakes, 139. 

Sponge-cake, 139. 

Buckwheat Cakes, 139. 

Buckwheat Cakes, No. 2, 140. 

Buckwheat in haste, 140. 

Flannel Cakes, 140. 

Corn Meal Batter-cakes, 140. 

Nice Puffs, 141. 

Hettie's Puffs, 141. 

Nena's Puffs, 141. 

Jeanette's Puffs, 142. 

Nannie's Puffs, 142. 

Large Hominy, 142. 

Small Hominy, 143. 

Hominy Cakes, 143. 

Corn Bread (Mrs. B.'s), 144. 

Sweet Potato Com Bread, 144. 

To divide Loaves of Bread, 144. 

Crumpets, 145. 

Sweet Potato Buns, 145. 

Oxford Crackers, 149. 

Soda Crackers, 145. 

Rice Batter Cakes, 146. 

Rice Waffles, 146. 

Buttermilk Waffles, 146. 

Crackling Bread, 146. 

Pass Overs, 147. 

Corn Fritters, 147. 

Scotland Neck Sally Lunn, 147. 

Breakfast Cakes, 147. 

Mrs. Lee's Bread, 147. 

Egg Pone, 148. 

Com Meal Drop Cakes, 148. 

Let your Light so shine, 148. 

EGOS AND BUTTEK. 

Poached Eggs, 150. 
Fricasseed Eggs, 150. 
Boiled Eggs, 150. 
Scrambled Eggs, 151. 
Eggs with Cheese, 151. 
Egg Omelet, 151. 
Egg Omelet with Ham, 151. 
Egg Omelet and Oysters, 151. 



Omelet with Herbs, 152. 
French Butter, 152. 
Granville Butter, 152. 
Pasquotank Butter, 153. 
Foreigners for Servants, 153. 



Aunt Matilda's Hop Yeast, 155. 

Yeast for Cakes of Leaven, 155. 

Baker's Yeast, 156. 

Potato Yeast, 156. 

Peach-leaf Yeast, 157. 

Nag's Head Yeast, 157. 

Milk Yeast, 157. 

Miss Betsey's Yeast, 158. 

Hop Yeast, 158. 

Yeast Cakes, 158. 

Quick Yeast made with Milk, 153. 

Ready Yeast, 159. 

Another Simple Yeast, 159. 

Milk Yeast for Batter Bread, 169. 

Mrs. Scott's Yeast, 160. 

Magic Yeast, 160. 
i Flour Yeast, 160. 
■ Hop Yeast, 161. 

Buttermilk Yeast, 161. 

Mrs. Lee's Yeast, 161. 

Circumstances make Changes, 
162. 

PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. 

Remarks on Boiled Puddings, 163. 

Remarks on Baked Puddings, 164. 

Peabody English Pudding, 164. 

Wine Sauce for Peabody Pad- 
ding, 165. 

Christmas Mince Meat, 165. 

Another Mince-meat, 166. 

Carolina Sweet Totato Pudding, 
167. 

Melissa's Potato Pudding, 167. 

Grated Potato Pudding, 167. 

Potato Custard, 167. 

Lemon Custard, 168. 

Pennsylvania Pudding, 168. 

Sweet Pudding, No. 2, 168. 

Apple Pudding, 168. 

Thorpe's Lemon Pudding, 169. 

Thorpe's Boiled Plum-pudding 
169. 

Bread Pudding, 169. 

A Cheap Pudding, 170. 

Pine-apple Pudding, 170. 

Fannie's Lemon Pudding, 170. 

Fannie's Almond Pudding, 170. 



342 



INDEX. 



Fannie's Pine-apple Pudding, 171. 
i'annie'3 Favorite Pudding, 171. 
Fannie's Cocoanut Pudding, 171. 
Fannie's Lemon Pudding, 171. 
Fannie's Molasses Pudding, 171. 
Fannie's Bread Pudding, 172. 
Hinton Pudding, 172. 
Batii fudding, 172. 
Orange Pudding, 173. 
Cinnamon Pudding, 173. 
Cake Pudding, 173. 
Lavina'a Sicily Pudding, 173. 
Apple Pudding, 174. 
Cocoanut Pudding, 174. 
Irish Potato Pudding, 174. 
Citron Pudding, 175. 
Sponge Pudding, 175. 
Cocoanut Pudding, 175. 
Boiled Plum-pudding, 175. 
Plain-boiled Pudding, 175. 
Penelope's Cocoanut Pudding, 

176. 
Etta's Plum»pudding,176. 
Susan's Plam.pudding, 176. 
Fig Pudding, 177. 
Sliced Bread Pudding, 177. 
Boiled Fruit Pudding, 177. 
Sponge Pudding, 177. 
Custard Pudding, J 78. 
Tapioca Pudding, 178. 
Batter Padding, 178. 
Arrow-root Pudding, 178. 
Laura's Bread Pudding, 179. 
Mush Pudding, 179. 
Dried Pumpkin Pie, 179. 
Ureen Apricot Pie, 179. 
Prune Tart, 180. 

To stew Cranberries for Tarts, 180. 
Green Tomato Pie, 180. 
Peach Pie, 180. 
(Cherry Pie, 180. 
Dried Peach Pies, 181. 
Dried Peach .Jacks, 181. 
Lizzie's Paste, 181. 
Cocoanut Custard, 181. 
Melissa's PufF Paste, 182. 
A nice Paste for Pies, 182. 
Chicken Pie Paste, 182. 
Pudding Sauce, No. 1, 183. 
Pudding Sauce, No. 2, 183. 
Pudding Sauce, No. 3, 183. 
Pudding Sauce, No. 4, 183. 
Cream Sauce, 183. 
Cinnamon Sauce, 184. 
A nice Cooked Sauce, 184. 



Common Sauce, 184. 

Poor Man's Pudding, 184. 

Cream Pudding, 185. 

Mrs. McMartin's Sweet Potato 
Pudding, S. C, 185. 

Clara's Cream Pudding, S. C, 185. 

Uncle James's Flour Pudding, 185. 

Persimmon Pudding, 185. 

Peach Dumplings, 186. 

Oxford Dumplings, 186. 

Orange Tart, 186. 

Apple Fritters, 187. 

Plain Fritters, 187. 

Cream Fritters, 18t. 

Varieties, 187. 

Transparent Pie, 188. 

Peach Pie, 188. 

Sweet Potato Pie, 188. 

.\lmond Pie, 188. 

Fannie's Silver Pie, 188. 

Fannie's Golden Pie, 189. 

Green Apple Pie, 189. 

The Best Way to boil Dump- 
lings (iira Stewart), 189. 

Blackberry and Raspberry Dump- 
lings, baked, 190. 

Lizzie's Lemon Pies, S. C, 190. 

Charleston Pudding, 190. 

Jennie's Pudding, 190. 

Sweet Potato Pudding, 191. 

Sweetmeat Pudding, 191. 

Lemon Pudding, 191. 

Jefferson Pudding, 192. 

Lemon Pudding, 192. 

Augusta Pudding, 192. 

Cream Pudding, 192. 

Corn Meal Pudding, 193. 

Boiled Com Meal Pudding, ls)3. 

Mu^h, 193. 

Rice Pudding, 193. 

Plain Baked Pudding, 193. 

Bread Pudding, 194. 

Rice Plum-pudding, 194. 

Pumpkin Pudding, 194. 

Apple Pudding, 194. 

Cocoanut Pudding, 195. 

Custard Pudding, 195. 

A Lemon Pudding Pie, 195. 

A nice Suet Pudding, 195. 

South Carolina Pudding, 196. 

Quick Pudding, 196. 

Molasses Pudding, 196. 

Potato Pudding, 197. 

To cook Rice, 197. 

Another way- 197. 



INDEX. 



343 



Still another, 197. 
Raisins and Rice, 198. 
Rice Friiraent3-, 198. 
Pasquotank "Wheat Frumenty, 

White Custard, 199. 
Boiled Custard, 199. 
Baked Custard, 200. 
Boiled Cuslard, No. 2, 200. 
Bessie's Bunker Hill Pnddinff, 
200. ^ 

French Puff Pudding, 201. 
Jelly Rolls, 201. 
Delightful Pudding, 201. 
Mrs. M.'s. Baked Apple Pudding, 

Mrs. K.'s Sliced Lemon Pudding, 
202. ^' 

Boiled Molasses Pudding, 202. 
Plain Plum-pudding, 202. 
Anna's Pudding, 202. 
Granville Mince-meat, 202. 
Potato k'udding, 203. 
Ann's Plum-pudding, 203. 
Poor Man's Plum-pndding, 203. 
Cabinet Pudding, 204. 
Lemon Cheese-cake Pudding, 

204. ^' 

Mrs. L.'s Lemon Pudding, 204. 
Pancakes, 205. 
A Frfench Pancake, 205. 
Lucy Howard Pudding, 205. 
Dried Apple Pudding, 206. 
Cottage Pudding, 200. 
Transparent Pudding, 206. 
Apple Pudding, 206. 
Dauphine Pudding, '^06. 
Queen of Puddings, 207. 
Apple Pudding, 207. 
Meta's Pud'ling, 207. 
Julia's Jelly Pudding, 208. 
Gypsy Pudding, 208 
Naanie's Cocoanut Piidding, 208. 
Raleigh Pudding, 208. 
Suffolk Apple Pie, 208. 
Scotland Neck Apple-pudding, 

209. 
Scotland Neck Plum-pudding, 

209. 
Fayetteville Orange Pudding, 209. 
Fayetteville Lemon Pudding, 210. 
Fayetteville Citron Pudding, 210. 
Mock Cocoanut Pudding, 210. 
" Work," the Word for the Times, 

210. 



Green Pickled Cucumbers, No. 1, 

212. 
Sliced Cucumber Pickle, 212. 
Pepper Vinegar Pickle, 213. 
Onion Pickle, 213. 
Damson and Cherry Pickles, 214. 
Cabbage Pickle, 214. 
Mary's Sweet Pickled Cucumber, 

214. 
Sweet Pickled Water-melon Rind, 

215. 
Ripe Cucumber Mustard Fickle, 

215. 
Pickled Peppers, 215. 
Pepper Mangoes, 216. 
Pickled Eggs, 216. 
Pickled Tomatoes, 216. 
To Pickle Plums, 217. 
Pickled Peaches, 217. 
Sweet Pickled Peach, 217. 
Old Virginia Chow Chow, 217. 
Pickled Cherries, 218. 
Melon Mangoes, 218. 
Cucumber Mangoes, 219. 
Peach Mangoes, 219. 
Water-melon Sweet Pickle, 219. 
Peach Sweet Pickle, 220. 
Ripe Peaches Pickle, 220. 
Sweet Pickle Cantelopes, 220. 
Sweet Pickle Damsons, 221. 
Green Tomato Sauce, 221. 
Sweet Pickle Pears, 221. 
Cabbage Pickle, 222. 
Pickled Gherkin, 222. 
To Pickle Sweet Apples, 222. 
Ripe Cherries Pickled, 223. 
Oyster Catchup, 223. 
Celery Vinegar, 223. 
Thj-me and Mint Vinegar, 223. 
Cucumber Catchup. 224. 
Cucumber Catchup, No. 2, 224. 
Ripe Tomato Catchup, 224. 
Walnut Catchup, 225. 
Tomato Catchup, No. 2, 225. 
Tomato Catchup, No. 3, 225. 
Tomato Catchup, No. 4, 226. 
Randolph's Tomato Catchup, 226. 
Tomato Catfchup with Vinegar, 

227. 
Horse-radish Sauce,.227. 
Green Tomato Soy, from Mrs. 

Granberry, 227. 
Horse-radish Vinegar, 228. 
Chow Chow, No. 2, 228. 



344 



INDEX. 



Green Tomato Pickle, 228. 
Cooked Green Tomato Fickle, 228. 
Walnut Pickle, 229. 
Peach Pickle, 229. 
Artichoke Pickle, 229. 
Fannie's Vinegar Sauce, 229. 
Fannie's Tomato Catchup, 230. 
Sour-krout, 230. 
Sauce for Winter, 230. 
Nona's Chow Chow, 231. 
Another Chow Chow, 231. 
Mrs. Baker's Premium Mangoes, 

231. 
Mushroom Catchup, 232. 
Mrs. Stewart's Chopped Pickle, 

S. C, 232. 
Mrs. Stewart's Green Tomato 

Catchup, S. C , 233. 
Oil Mangoes, 233. 
Turmeric Pickle, 233. 
Oxford Sauce, 234. 
Red Pepper Catchup, 23-t. 
French Pickle, 234. 
Strength and Honor, 234. 



Remarks on making Cake, 236. 
Remarks on baking, 238. 
Bella's Fruit Cake, 239. 
Brown Sugar Cakes, 2.39. 
Julia's Gingerbread, 240. 
Common Gingerbread, 240. 
Lucy's Thin Ginger Cakes, 240. 
Ginger Cakes, 240. 
Gingerbread Nute, 241. 
Knox Ginger Cakes, 241. 
Louisiana Ginger Cake, 241 . 
Johnson Tea Cake, 241. 
Spankmedown, 242. 
White Cup-cake, 242. 
Loaf-cake, 242. 
Measure Cake, 242. 
Almond Cake, No. 1, 243. 
Almond Cake, No. 2, 24;). 
Thorpe White Cake, 243. 
Sponge-cake, 243. 
Corn Starch Cake, 244. 
Corn Found-cake, 244. 
Sponge-cake, 244. 
White Cake, 244. 
Ginger Pound-cake, 245. 
Sett Gingerbread, 245. 
Cup Sponge-cake, 245. 
Saratoga Springs Cake, 245. 
Cream Cake, 246. 



White Mountain Cake, 246. 
Jelly Cake, 246. 
Fannie's Sugar Cakes, 246. 
Fannie's Hasty Cake, 247. 
Fannie's Jumbles, 247. 
Hettie's Delicate Cake, 247. 
Fannie's Sponge-cake, 247. 
One Pound Fruit-cake, 248. 
Fannie's White Cake, 248. 
Fannie's Gold Cake, 248. 
Nona's Delicate Cake, 248. 
Nona's Corn Starch Cake, 249. 
Nona's White Cake, 249. 
Blackberry Cake, 249. 
Laura's Cup Cake, 249. 
Laura's Cocoanut Cake, 250. 
Laura's Drop Cakes, 250. 
Sis Submit's Molasses Cup Cake, 

250. 
Plain Molasses Cake, 250. 
Fannie's Gingerbread, 250. 
Fannie's Buttermilk Cake, 251. 
Mattie's White Cake, 251. 
Fannie's Cocoanut Cake, 251. 
Fannie's Black Cake, 251. 
Mary's Plain Cake, S. C, 252. 
Mrs. Hopson's Ginger Cake, S. C, 

252. 
Maggie's Cup-cake, S. C, 252. 
Mrs. Frazer's Jumbles, S. C, 252. 
Wafer Cakes, 253. 
Feather Cake, 253. 
Tiptop Cake, 253. 
Dover Cake, 253. 
Coffee Cake, 254. 
White Cake, 254. 
Lemon Cake, 254. 
Loaf-cake, 254. 
Queen Cakes, 255. 
May Queen Cake, 255. 
Drop Sugar Cakes, 255. 
Almond Cake, 255. 
Carawaj'-seed Cake, 256. 
Sweet Potato Cake, 256. 
Bettie's Mountain Cake, 256. 
Chess Cake, 257. 
Mrs. Hoyt's White Cake, 257. 
Mis. Hart's Cream Puffs, 257. 
Cocoanut Puffs, 257. 
Cocoanut on Sponge-cake, 258. 
New Orleans Jumbles, 258. 
Lemon Cakes, 259. 
Martin Jumbles, 259. 
Dover Cake, 259. 
Bradford Cup-cake, 260. 



INDEX. 



345 



Plain Tea Cakes, 260. 

Indian Pound-cake, 260. 

Diiughiiuts, 260. 

Crullers, 261.' 

Fannie's Biscued Glac^e, 261. 

Fannie's Charlotte Russe, 261. 

Kaiiiiie's Creiim, 262. 

Fannie's Meringue. 262. 

Fannie's a la Cream, 262 

Ginger Sponge-cake, 262. 

Jumbles, 263. 

Naples Biscuit, 263. 

Doughnuts, 263. 

Mrs. H.'s Molasses Fruit-cake, 

263. 
Almond Macaroons, 234. 
Boston Kisses, 264. 
Fannie's Almond Drops, 264. 
Mrs. E.'s Puffs, 265. 
A Wedding Supper, 265. 
General Lee Fruit Cake, 268. 
Ginger Snaps, 269. 
Merchant's Cake for a Picnic, 269. 
Mrs. B.'s Sponge-cake, 270. 
Portland Cake, 270. 
Concnrd Cake, 270. 
Water Sponge-cake, 270. 
Crullers, 270. 
French Loaf-cake, 271. 
Cookies. 271. 
Mrs. M.'s Cup-eake, 271. 
Mock Lobster Cake, 271. 
Lady-Fingers, 272. 
Ginger Snaps, 272. 
Tennessee Cake, 272. 
Cocoanut Cake, 272. 
Lady Cake, 272. 
Whortleberry Cake, 273. 
Goshen Cake, 273. 
Cake without Eggs, 273. 
Citron Cake, 273. 
Scotland Neck Citron Cake, 274. 
Butter Sponge-cake, 274. 
Scotland Neck Cheese-cake, 274. 
Gingerbread, 274. 
Virginia Tea Cakes, 275. 

PRESEKVES. 

To preserve Peaches, 276. * 

Cling-stone Peaches, 276. 

To preserve Water-melon Kinds, 

277. 
Apple Marmalade, 277. 
Apples preserved like Ginger. 278. 
Siberian Crab Apple, 278. 



Apple Jelly, 278. 

Apple Jelly, No. 2, 279. 

To drv Cherries or Damsons, 279. 

To dry Peaches, 280. 

Dried Apples, 280. 

Dried Apples sliced, 280. 

Green Apple dried, 280. 

Ripe Cantelopes, preserved, 281. 

Water-melon Rind, 281. 

Glass Melons and Citrons, 282. 

Quince Preserves, 282. 

Stewed Pears, 283. 

Pear Preserves, 283. 

Pear Marmalade, 283. 

Peach Jelly, 283. 

Peaches a la Strawberry, 284. 

Peaches for tea, 284. 

Quinces baked, 284. 

Peaches baked, 284. 

Baked Pears, 284. 

Blackberry Jam, 284. 

Raspberry Jam, 285. 

Gooseberry Jam, 285. 

Quince Jelly, 285. 

Strawberries, preserved, 286. 

Strawberry Jelly, 286. 

Strawberry Jam, 286. 

Pine apple Jelly, 286. 

Orange Jelly, 287. 

To make good Jelly, 287. 

Be systematic and punctual, 287. 

ICE-CREAM. 

Frozen Custard, 289. 
Nannie's Sherbet, 290. 
Plain Sherbet, 290. 
Vanilla Cream, 290. 
North Carolina Cream, 291. 
Cream with Fruits, 291. 
Brooklyn Pistachio Cream, 291. 
Almond Cream, 292. 
Cocoanut Cream, 292. 
Syllabub, 292. 
Carolina Syllabub, 292. 
Plain Syllabub, 293. 
Typsey Cake, 293. 
Trifle, 293. 
Apple Fool, 294. 
Hog's Feet Jelly, 294. 
Marion's Jelly, 295. 
Another, 295. 
Charlotte Russe, 296. 
Chocolate Charlotte Russe, 297. 
Pizzini's Ic^-cream, 297. 
German Chailotte Russe, 297. 



346 



INDEX. 



Mrs. E.'s Floating Island, 298. 

Louisiana Cream Cheese, 298. 

Almond and Walnut Cream, 298. 

Floating Island, 299. 

Gooseberry Fool, 299. 

Florida Icing, 299. 

Boiled Icing, 300. 

Mrs. H.'s Icing, 300. 

Plain Icing, 300. 

Mrs. S.'s Icing, 301. 

Another Boiled Icing, 30]. 

Italian Cream, 301. 

Mrs. b.'s Charlotte Russe, 301. 

Woman a Help- meet, 302. 

Drunkards, 303. 

FRUITS AND CORDIALS. 

Brandy Peaches, 304. 
Brandy Pfeaches, No. 2, 304. 
Brandy Peaches, No. 3, 305. 
Brandy Peaches, No. 4, 385. 
North Carolina Egg-nog, 305. 
Bettie's Egg-nog, 306. 
Turnip Wine, 306. 
Peach Wine, 306. 
Mrs. Stewart's Blackberry Wine, 

307. 
To make Red Grape Wine, 307. 
Cider White Wine, 307. 
Amis's Grape Wine, 308. 
Cherry Bounce, 308. 
Raspberry Wine, 308. 
To make Nfectar, 308. 
Punch, 309. 
Perry, 309. 

Gooseberry Wine, 309. 
Strawberry Wine, 309. 
Fincastle Currant Wine, 310. 
Spruce Beer, 310. 
Ginger Beer for Summer, 310. 
Ginger Wine, 311. 
Blackberry Cordial, 311. 
Blackberry Wine, 311. 
Blackberry Wine, No. 2, 312. 
Fannie's filackbernf Wine, 312. 
Mrs. Jones's Blackberry' Wine, 

312. 
Scuppernaug Wine, 313. 
Spruce Beer. 313. 
I'each Cordial, 313. 
MoUsses Beer, 314. 
Lemon Cordial, 314. 
Raspberry Vinegar, 314. 
Another, 315. 
Strawberry Vinegar, 315. 



Strawberry Cordial, 31b. 
Rhubarb Wine, 315. 
" Cleanliness is next to Godfi- 
ness," 316. 

1IIISCEI.LAIIE01JS. 

Molasses Candy, 317. 

Enow-nothing Balls, 317. 

Walnut Candy, 317. 

Boiled Sugar Candy, 318. 

English Walnut, and Pecan Can- 
dy, 318. 

Cocoaniit Candy, 318. 

To keep Eggs, 319. 

To keep Cranberries, 319. 

To bottle Gooseberries, 319. 

To keep Tomatoes, 319. 

To keep Onions, 319. 

To keep Irish Potatoes, 320. 

To dry Pumpkins, 320. 

To can Corn, 320. 

Another Way to can Corn, 321. 

To preserve Corn, 321. 

To keep Lemons, 321. 

To keep Lemons for Lemonade, 
321. 

To brown Flour, 321. 

To keep Flies from Windows, 
322. 

To bottle Fruits. 322. 

To can Peaches with Siigar, 323. 

Hard Soap, 323. 

Soft Soap, 324. 

Common Soap, 324. 

Soap with Potash, 325. 

To prepare Washing Fluid, 325. 

CARE OF THE SICK. 

Nursing the Sick, 327. 

FOR THE SICK. 

Nutritious Composition, 329. 
Chicken Water, 329. 
Chicken Jelly, 329. 
Wine Whev,' 329. 
Gruel, 330." 
Toast Water, 330. 
Corn Bread Water, 330. 
Buttei-milk, 330. 
Buttermilk, No. 2, 330. 
Milk thickened, 331. 
Boiled Custard, 331. 
Irish Moss, 331. 
Arrow-root, 331. 
Arrow-root Blancmange, 332. 



INDEX. 



347 



Mulled Cider and Wine, 332. 
Beef, Veal, and Chicken Tea, 332. 
Bice Jelly, 332. 
Milk Porridge, 333. 
Apple Water, 333. 
Baked Apples, 333. 



Panada, 333. 
Panada, No. 2, 833. 
Chicken Panada, 384. 
Chicken Tea, 331. 
Bath-room, 334. 
The Parlor, 335. 



A NEW COOKERY BOOK. 
MRS. ELLIOTT'S HOUSEWIFE. 

Containing Practical Receipts in Cookery. 

By Mrs. SARAH A. ELLIOTT, Oxford, nI 0. 
In one volume.. 12ino. 

This book, in addition to its excellence as a practical book- for all tarailieB, 
has special adraatageB as the work of a housewife nlio knows the needs of 
Southern households. It is minute in its directions, and abounds in receipts 
for new and inexpensive dishes. 



C O NT E N T S : 



fireUminary. • 

Soups. 

Fish. 

Meats. 

poultry. , 

C tared Meats. 

Vegetables. 

B£inkB. 

Breads. 

Eggs and Butter. 



Puddings and Paatry. 
Pickles and Sauces. 
Oake. 

fPreserves. 
Ice Cream. 
Fruits and Cordials 
MiscellaaeouB. ' 
Care of the Sick. 
For the Sick. 



PARKER'S HAND-BOOK. 

The Hand-book for Mothers. A Guide in ttie Care of Yo&ng Children. 
Bi^ Edward'H. Parser, M. B. A new edition. 
One volume. 12mo.. Price in cloth, $1.60. 

"This is just the little book to place in the hands .<tf every wife and mother 
for a safe and sufficient goide in the management of the health of the house- * 
hold, especially of the children.'* — Lqdies' B^ository. 

" The volume answers authoritatively all the ques^ons which mothers are 
continually a^ng, and removes the painful doubts with which they are con- 
tinually trdubled. It is indeed of such 'great practioal value, and meets so 
general a want, that there would 'seem to be no reason why it should hot be 
considered a necessity in every !]&mily." — Boston DaiPy Transcript. . 

" The first edition of this excellent manual was received with much fawr by 
the medical profession and numerous parents. The information and adviiee 
which it furniskes can only be appreciated to tHefulliti domestic^circles.hIes8Bd 
with several * olive branches.' There its teachings, faithfcilly followed, will 
duly benefit the mother an& her ofi'spring, in alliheir little, but many troubles. 
It combineB^Qommon ^nse with practical experience." — Chicago Jourtial. 

HUBD & HOUGHTON, 13 Astor Place, New Toi4e. 

H. O. HOUGHTON & CO., Kiverside, Camlirldge, Mass. 



Standard Books in Good Literature. 
ANDERSEN. 

The collected writings of Hans Christian Andeksen, tlie eminent 
DaniBli autllor, puWisliea by arrangement. The volumes are iasueil in 
uniform crown 8vo volamos, and there are now ready: 

1. THE IMPROVISATOKE ; or, Ufe In Italy. $1.75. 
3. THE TWO BABOXESSES. A Northern Romance. »1.75. 

3. WONDER STOKIES TOI/B FOR CHILitREN. Profoflely 

. illustratiid. $2.25. . 

4. IN SPAIN AND PORTUGAL. Travels. $1.76. 

5. O. T. A Danish Romance. $1.75. 



COOPER. 

.The Works of J. Fenimore Cooler. 

IliliUSTRATED UBRART EDITION. 32 vols, crowh 8vo. Bach 

$3.00. 

HOCSEHOIiD EDITION. 32 vols. 16mo. Bach f 1.25. 



DICKENS. 



The complete Works of Charles Dickens. 

HOUSEECOI/D EDITION. Illnstrated by Darlet »nd Gilbert. 
54 v^. 16mo. Per volume, $1.25. 

RIVERSIDE EDITION. Illustrated by CRpiKSHANK, PHIZ, SEy- 
MOUR, Leech, Maclise, STOffE, Darley, a£d Qilbekt. 23 
vols, crown 8vo. Each, $2.00. 

GI.OBE EDITION. Darley and Gilbert's illustrations. 14 vols. 
12mo. Each, $1.50. 



KENNEDY-. 

A new and uniform edifjon of the Works of Hon. John P. Kennedy. 
Printed on tinted and laid paper. <|omplete in six volumes, croWn 8vo, a^ 
fbllows ; — 

HORSE-SHOE KOBINSON. One^olume. 
SW^AIilOW BARN. One volume. j; 

ROB OE THE BOWL. ., One volume. 
QUODMBET. One volume. 
lilEE OF WIIiMAM; WIRT. Two vfilumes. 
Price in extra cloth, each volume, $2.25. 

HTXKD * HOTJOHTOW, 13 Astor Place, Wow Tork 

H. O. HOUOHTOIf & CO., Biverside, Cambridge, Mass. 



